[REDACTED]
By Bryan [REDACTED]
Poke lived in a one-bedroom with five boys and a window. The complex sat on Montrose, just across from St. Thomas. They rented it from a woman who couldn’t be bothered with a lease, or regular maintenance, or even a deposit; Rod had talked her down so that she wouldn’t raise the charges on them. Rod was the one who spent the least time fucking around. He was always out tricking. Most of them were. But, on the rare mornings Poke awoke on the fading carpet of the room, he could watch crowds from the chapel drifting up the block. The apartment was next to the Chevron on [REDACTED] and the pharmacy on Yoakum, with the diner in between, and Poke would hover by the window, humming at the sink, willing the tap into something a little nicer.
Usually he was cleaning up from last night43616e616461 john. Poke tried to keep things local. It made life easier. Most guys were fine getting jerked off in their cars, or driving Poke and the other boys a block from the bars on Fairview—but others insisted that they had to be comfortable, and these were the ones who took Poke home with them.
Although, once, Poke ended up at Memorial Hermann. He’d been sucking off some doctor and the doctor was on call. The doc43616e616461 pager went off, and he wouldn’t leave Poke at his place, so he drove him to the hospital and stuck him in the waiting room. Poke sat beside a pair of bleached blondes waiting for painkillers, three bespectacled Mexican women, and some whiteboy with his head in a bandage. The whiteboy looked broken, and he slumped beside his girlfriend, but even through the gauze he was the only one who stared.
When Poke finally asked what’d happened to his face, the whiteboy43616e616461 girl grabbed her guy by the shoulders.
The whiteboy said he’d been cooking and he poked himself.
Poke smiled, but he didn’t laugh.
The other boys Poke lived with were fine: Scratch and Google and Knock and Nacho. They worked the same bars, the same apps, hustled the same set of clubs. They looked out for one another well enough—like when Google’d told Poke about dragging his heels, so he wouldn’t track shit from the street into a john43616e616461 house; or when Nacho’d advised, after staring for months, that Poke find himself a shirt that didn’t scream pato.
But it was Rod who’d given Poke his crew43616e616461 rules of engagement: don’t do anything you wouldn’t do twice; never, ever, ever double-wrap your rubbers; never give your government name, find some shit that43616e616461 cool on the ears, and when Poke told Rod that he didn’t really get that since his name was his name and it43616e616461 what he was called, Rod christened Poke as Poke.
That43616e616461 what got you a regular, Rod said. You established patterns. Patterns became routines. Routines meant a sure buck most days of the month, and that43616e616461 what kept the lights on.
When Poke asked Rod about his new name, he never got a straight answer. The dude always dodged him. But one day Google told him: it was because Poke was thicker than the rest of them. All of the other boys wore one another43616e616461 clothes, all Supreme and Adidas and Urban Outfitters and Gap, except for Poke, who Rod made solo purchases for.
VIDEO FROM THE NEW YORKER

Departing Gesture

Rod wasn’t their pimp, but you’d be a fool to tell him that. He took rent from the boys. He bought food from H-E-B. He kept the carpet decent. He scrapped with the whiteboys on Yoakum. He made the rounds at all the shelters for handouts, kept roaches from colonizing the kitchen, and, once, after Nacho’d asked who the fuck made him king, Rod broke his thumbs launching him into the wall.
Poke called a cab to drop them at the Urgent Care on Westheimer. Rod43616e616461 thumbs swelled like a pair of pale cucumbers. Nacho had a sprained ankle and three bruised ribs, and he wouldn’t step straight for the rest of the year. But Rod iced Nacho43616e616461 ribs. He brought pho from the noodle bar and menudo from the taqueria. And although Nacho still called him el pinche pendejo blanco, there was warmth in those words from there on out. Not respect or gratitude. Nothing akin to praise. Just acknowledgment. An acceptance of the way things were.
It took months for Poke to ask Rod why he’d done that. When Rod answered, it was like he’d been waiting for the question.
Because one day someone43616e616461 gonna kick the shit out of me. They’re gonna beat my fucking ass, he said, and then we’ll see what you do.
Rod kept tabs on all his boys, but he kept Poke a little closer. He’d have denied it if you’d asked him, but he felt for the kid—there was something in the way of kinship.
Poke had no history. He’d hit the streets straight out of the shelter. Rod hadn’t seen him swapping needles on Almeda, or huffing paint in Hyde Park. This made Poke, Rod figured, a true victim of circumstance. So Rod kept Poke in clean socks. And Rod told Poke which cabbies to dodge. And Rod snuck Poke into Minute Maid Park on an off night during the playoffs, a favor from an ex, and they walked from aisle to aisle palming the backs of every seat, mouthing the names of Astros who’d walked the field before them—Biggio, Oswalt, Peña, and Altuve—muttered like saints under their breath.
One night they sat in Katz43616e616461 huddled over a Reuben and a milkshake that Rod had insisted on despite the extra dollar. Most Thursdays found the boys on Fairview, waiting for the bars to leak their patrons into the morning. But Rod said he had news. Big news. And Poke’d learned not to sleep on an empty stomach.
They rarely ate out, and Poke thought maybe Rod had come into some money. It was about fucking time. Maybe he’d found them a bigger spot. Poke envisioned wood floors, painted walls, no rodents, but Rod only sighed, and shut his eyes, and told Poke that he was sick; he’d finally caught the bug.
The two boys eyed each other across the table. Rod with the lighter skin. Poke43616e616461 a little darker. Rod with the tapered fade, shaved to the neck, and Poke43616e616461 close-cropped, curly at the top. One a little older, the other a little shorter. Both of them brown in the eyes.
Poke took a long bite from his half of the sandwich. He asked if Rod was sure.
Sure enough, Rod said. The rapid looked sure. Nurse sounded fucking sure.
O.K., Poke said. So take another rapid.
That was the third.
They glanced at the diner door as it yawned open and a gaggle of drunks stumbled in from the cold. Poke blinked through the men, glancing at their ring fingers, wondering how much he could pull. Then he pinched himself.
Rod sipped their shake. He didn’t use the straw.
So find a fourth, Poke said, but his voice was cracking.
They didn’t know much, but they knew about H.I.V. They knew the way it hung over Montrose. They took their precautions. And then there was the rule, Rod43616e616461 rule—you got sick, you were gone. No questions. No exceptions. Your ass was on the street.
And yet, Poke thought.
There was froth all over Rod43616e616461 lips, strewn with half-chewed pastrami. Poke flicked the end of the straw against his nose.
Fuck, Rod said. What43616e616461 fucked is I don’t even know who it was. I can’t even tell you who threw that shit to me.
Poke wanted to say that he’d thrown it to himself—and that43616e616461 what didn’t compute. Not with all Rod43616e616461 yelling about safety. All the precautions he ran them through. All the grief he gave them. But those words dissolved on Poke43616e616461 tongue, and he shook his head instead, and he rubbed the nape of his neck with his palms.
Poke started to ask Rod who else he’d told, but he already knew the answer. So he asked when Rod planned to tell everyone else.
Rod took a long sip. He watched the crowd by the window. One of the men laughed, then glanced at their table. He turned away. Then he glanced again.
When Poke reached for the rest of the Reuben, Rod slapped his hand. Soon, he said. I’ll figure something out.
Rod stretched in the parking lot, bending toward the high-rises, and the gleam from the street lamps made his shadow bloom in the night, and the reek of deli meat mingled with the tinge of gasoline, and Poke tightroped the curb alongside the cars congesting Westheimer. It was late. The roads were stuffed.
Rod said he was tired. They should start heading back.
Poke looked at his shoes, kicking at the concrete.
Sure, he said. But it was still only eleven. They had the whole night ahead of them, and when was the last time they’d taken one off?
Rod told Poke that was good and fine. But, really, his night was over.
You’re a big boy, though, Rod said. You go on and do your thing.
Just, y’know, Rod said, be safe, and he flashed a grin.
Poke watched Rod saunter away, and then he peeked through the diner43616e616461 windows. He felt in his pockets for the space where the thread thinned.
Which was how he ended up at Emil43616e616461. It was a short walk. The brownstone sat in that patch of grass before the sidewalk dissolved into marsh, littered with bottles and cardboard and dog shit, dampened flyers from the most recent mayoral election. Poke punched the buzzer, and then Emil43616e616461 voice crackled and the door unlatched itself.
Emil was a furry man. Well into his forties. [REDACTED] hair, and his accent was stronger than most. He’d told Poke about his home the first night they fucked, and how he longed for his family, and Poke’d looked at his skin and rubbed Emil43616e616461 elbows and tried his best to conjure something in the neighborhood of empathy.
They had a good thing going. Twice a week, most months. Holidays, too, unless Emil was fasting. But as nice as he was, Emil was still a john, and Poke charged him the going rate, or more, when he could swing it.
Except when Emil reached for him now, Poke did a weird thing, something beyond the routine: he hugged the man in front of him.
He did not know he was going to do that until he did it. It was a reaction. An impulse. To what, he didn’t know.
They stood in the doorway before an audience of fronds, and the strays patrolling the block, and the dim lights shining through adjacent windows. Poke knew if he’d fucked up, if he’d made a miscalculation, he’d be back out on the curb. He’d have just closed an open door.
But Emil only squeezed him tighter. He told Poke to come in.
Early on, Poke had asked the other boys how they’d found Rod. This was after his shelter years, after he’d made it out from under the overpass. Poke spent those first few weeks in the apartment sprawled across the carpet, watching the other boys come and go, and Rod didn’t bitch about it. He said they were glad to have him. He brought greasy sacks from Brothers Tacos, splitting the aluminum evenly across the carpet—but Poke wasn’t a fool. He’d seen the other boys eying him. He knew he’d have to contribute. He just wanted to know the stakes.
Luckily for Poke, everyone had an answer for him. Before Rod, Nacho’d been another orphan junkie working the Latin bars on [REDACTED]. He’d lived in Humble with his aunt and some pocho from El Paso, until they caught him with the poppers. Then he needed a new situation.
He hustled day to day before Rod cut him off at South Beach, snagging Nacho from the lap of some whiteboy by the door. Nacho thought he’d caught a deal—he wasn’t green, he’d done this before—but Rod kept tugging, until the man waved them both away.
Nacho called Rod a cunt. He’d lost him that evening43616e616461 dinner.
Actually, Rod said, I just saved your punkass. Your boy loves beating on Mexicans, he said, nodding toward the man. What you should be doing is thanking me.
That43616e616461 when Rod made Nacho an offer: stay with him. Work the hot spots across the strip. Maybe slide him a cut of whatever came his way. And, in return, he’d have a place to stay at night, every night, no exceptions.
Clubgoers maneuvered around them. Nacho spat on the road.
He told Rod to go fuck himself.
But still, Nacho told Poke, it43616e616461 hard. You know? Your boy knew the city. He knew who was carrying real money. I hadn’t been downtown too long, so I figured I’d shack up with him for a minute. Cut him loose the next. Maybe case his shit, too. But look. I’m still right the fuck here.
Scratch and Knock met Rod the same way, just talking on the curb. Google found everyone else through Nacho. Rod brought all his boys back to the apartment, this shitty little walkup in the toe43616e616461 crack of [REDACTED], and he schooled them on efficiency, showed them how to get more for their time. Some of the boys took to it, but most of them did not.
There had been others before Poke, but Rod didn’t do second chances. A fight got you the boot. A stray needle did, too. One kid, Daisy, woke up looking like a rash, and this other guy, Mick, thought it’d be smart to try tina. Rod let them both go, because he’d told them what was up, the way he told everyone who stepped through his door.
Rod43616e616461 boys would keep their noses clean. They would keep that shit outside. They would use a fucking condom, or they could pack their shit and bounce. The boys did their best to adhere, but occasionally accidents happened, and sometimes rules were overlooked. And, sometimes, Poke found a better way, or a way that was better for him, but if he’d learned anything at all it was that sometimes you kept those things to yourself.
Google was flossing his teeth over the sink when Poke made it back to the apartment. He’d woken up late at Emil43616e616461. The blinds had already been drawn. Sunlight fell across Poke on the sofa, cordoned by the fronds tickling the brownstone43616e616461 windows.
Poke’d snuck out of houses before. He knew how to do it. So before he even opened his eyes he knew it would be futile.
But he tried to anyways. He fished his socks from under the sofa, hooked a sneaker from the kitchen tile, and was scrambling for the other one when he ran into Emil.
Morning!
Hi.
You snore! Emil said. Like a whale!
Emil stood barefoot, in a plaid button-down and slacks. He held some naan in one hand and Poke43616e616461 second shoe in the other.
Figured I’d let you sleep, Emil said. Give you a few more hours.
I’ve got a bed at home, Poke said, and Emil just smiled at that.
Poke said he couldn’t stay for breakfast. He had shit to do. Emil nodded at all of this, as if he understood exactly. He told Poke he’d drive him home. When the kid declined, Emil called bullshit. Don’t think anything of it, no one walks in this weather, it43616e616461 not the Texan way, ha ha!
It occurred to Poke, dully, as they drifted past the AutoZone and the [REDACTED] and the Disco Kroger, that they hadn’t had sex after all. He’d spent a perfectly chaste night with a stranger for nothing. Which was a first, he was pretty sure. If not for all the boys, then at least for him.
Emil dropped him off at the walkup. Poke waved from the stoop. Emil waved back, looking a little sore, and it put Poke43616e616461 stomach in a knot, like he was stepping away from something sure, but of course the fucker was still a john.
Now Google43616e616461 eyes tracked him across the carpet, from the kitchen to the bathroom to the window and back. Poke washed his face in the sink. What he wanted was a glass of water, but after what had happened to Knock everyone in the apartment knew not to drink from the tap. It’d put him in bed for a week. Google worked on a bowl of cereal, and didn’t say shit about it, which made Poke feel grateful. In fact, Poke didn’t mind Google at all—the guy had grown up in Bellaire, in a regular situation, but then his people were deported back to [REDACTED] and he’d needed to figure something out.
Long night, Google said, after a while, and Poke nodded.
You’re the first one back.
When Poke asked about everyone else, Google only shrugged.
Knock43616e616461 wherever, he said, and Scratch broke his phone. He43616e616461 over at Apple. Nacho43616e616461 with that girl. The one with the ears. Meteor was slow, except for that one guy with the nose ring.
And the eyebrows?
Him.
Fuck.
Fuck43616e616461 right. You get a cough just looking at him, Google said, and it made Poke think about Rod, and it gave him a slow shudder.
Sure, Poke said, reaching for some cereal, and almost simultaneously Nacho slammed into the room.
Hey, bitches, he said, sneering just a little, and he hadn’t even locked the door before Google was cracking the window. Nacho reached in his jeans for a joint, and then he was sealing the paper shut, and the three huddled by the window, inhaling deeply and blowing into the breeze.
The air felt crisp. A trill from some birds spilled across a rooftop. When the smoke blew back, they waved their hands, straining against the wind, and a handful of women power-walked just below them. They waved at the boys. The boys waved back.
They’re living dangerously, Google said, and Nacho hissed, and Poke smoked.
Where hides our lord god the king? Nacho said, and Google nodded toward the bedroom.
Poke blinked twice.
You said everyone was out.
I said everyone that went out was out. Your boy stayed in. Guess he didn’t feel so hot.
Something43616e616461 always wrong with that nigga, Nacho said. He twiddled the joint with his fingers, sucking the smoke a little harder, but even with a wall between them the words came out under his breath.
So no one43616e616461 checked on him, Poke said.
Why the fuck would they, Nacho said.
He’d call if he was dying, Google said, and Nacho just laughed at that, and Poke brushed at his shirt before he slipped into the bedroom.
The walls were posterless, propless. Peeling at the ceiling. Rod43616e616461 comforter smelled like peaches, and Poke found him on the mattress, beneath its lone sheet.
He lives, Rod said, raising his arms.
Poke asked how he felt.
Like a bag of Tic Tacs, Rod said.
Good news can do that to you, Poke said, and Rod told him that his news was great.
Poke’d seen sick men under the bridges in Midtown. He’d seen shrunken hands squeezing loose strips of cardboard. Poke knew that everything could and would be fine, until all of a sudden it wasn’t.
But today Rod still looked like Rod. Maybe even a little more handsome.
We should find you some treatment, Poke said.
Of course, Rod said. From the doctor. With my insurance.
Don’t play dumb, Poke said. You know about the clinics. All the volunteers on Jackson.
And leave you motherfuckers here to run the ship? Rod said. Sure. Great idea.
I’m just saying, Poke said. There43616e616461 places you can go for free.
And places I will go, Rod said, but it43616e616461 only been a day.
It43616e616461 been a day since you found out, Poke said, and he found himself standing. There43616e616461 no clock on that shit. Maybe you got it from your first fuck.
Easy, Rod said.
Maybe you got it from your ex, Poke said, all up in Rod43616e616461 corner, leaning over the mattress, hands squeezing the comforter, and with a speed that made Poke flinch Rod socked the younger dude in the nose.
They stared at each other.
It’d been as simple as flicking a light switch.
Poke saw himself bashing the motherfucker43616e616461 face in, grinding down with his palms. He’d always thought he could do that, if he really had to. But he knew he never would.
And, Poke thought, at this rate, why would I?
He hated himself for thinking it.
He cut Rod off when he opened his mouth.
Stop, Poke said. I know what you meant. It43616e616461 fine.
It isn’t fine, Rod said.
No, it43616e616461 all right.
It wasn’t fair.
O.K., Poke said, but nothing43616e616461 fair.
Poke fucked around with a number of guys. Some of them were memorable but most of them weren’t. He fucked accountants and nurses and gas-station clerks and students. He fucked a guy who couldn’t finish unless Poke wore a mask, and another who couldn’t finish for anything, not until Poke had spent himself thrice. One time, he left with a woman who’d brought him for her husband, who insisted that she stay in the room until they were done.
Worse were the ones who popped the question: could you live with them? The ones who swore they’d take care of you. All you’d have to do was hang around, take a fucking every now and again. Disappear when they needed you to. Reappear just as suddenly. They’d tell you how much they loved you, how they couldn’t live without you, and that was Poke43616e616461 cue, it was all he needed to hear. He rubbed their heads and scratched their chests. He smiled at their jokes. He did all of these things because they’d never see him again.
Rod didn’t mention his diagnosis the next week.
That week became a month. Two months eased into three.
Moments to disclose came and went. They popped up in the apartment, as the sky dimmed through the windows, and in the evenings while the boys slunk along the walls of Blur, and under the pulsing bass of Guava Lamp, and, in the morning, piled onto the sofa, after everyone had made it home, and a lull in the conversation had bloomed, and a blip propped open for confession, and Rod would take a deep breath, cross his legs, and brace himself, but what he actually ended up doing was nothing.
He’d spit some sort of aphorism. Ask if his boys were good on cash. Mention something about the cost of electricity, the fact that they were always wasting gas.
It pissed Poke off. All that talk about accountability. Doing the right thing for your family when you could. And here Rod was—fucking around. Over pride.
So Poke began to press him. He’d wait until they were alone. At the apartment, or on some barstools, or in a booth of some diner.
But whenever Poke brought it up Rod only shrugged.
I don’t know what the fuck you’re talking about, he’d say, hardly even dropping his voice.
Rod wasn’t delicate about it. The other boys noticed. This brusqueness between them was new to everyone, a chill. They asked and they asked and they asked, and Poke told them it was nothing. Or at least nothing that mattered. That43616e616461 just how Rod was.
But Rod still tricked, four, five, six times a week. And Poke knew there was something wrong with that. Something irremediably fucked. He never wondered if Rod used protection because he knew that he did not, and Poke tried mouthing the words to himself, just to see what they’d sound like: Our leader has failed us. Worse than the guys he43616e616461 gotten rid of. More lost than they ever were.
Poke didn’t like the way any of that came out.
So some days Poke left the apartment, stepped through the leaves plaguing Montrose, and watched the traffic straddling West [REDACTED]. The garages along the road spat their stew of bachata and country. Poke peeked into the Black Labrador, where people huddled over their gins, and he walked past the library, across [REDACTED], over I-69, and he watched the cars speed from one end of the Loop to the other.
A couple weeks later, Poke told Emil.
Poke had found himself at Rod43616e616461 apartment less and less, popping in only when he absolutely had to. He was spending most of his days on the streets, or lying around at Emil43616e616461, though he figured that’d be short-lived. Poke assumed that the man would drop him eventually. He’d tire of this louse with his grime and his sullenness, and his fingers all over the countertop, and his piss all over the toilet bowl. Poke waited, hoping for the worst, but the worst did not come.
Emil never said a word.
Emil washed the dishes. Emil wiped the counters.
Emil left the living room whenever Poke was brooding.
He’d return with a mug of tea. A guest in his own home. The whole thing made Poke burn, made him blush.
So, when he told Emil about Rod, he wanted only to see what would happen.
Emil43616e616461 lips froze.
He stopped moving. Stopped breathing.
He asked if Poke had it, too. Poke said he did not.
Emil winced, shifting.
I get tested, Poke said. Often.
Often, Emil said.
Every few weeks, Poke said. Last week. And I’m on PrEP.
The pills? You can afford them?
They’re free for me.
And then Emil deflated into the recliner.
They lay down in the bedroom. Poke sipped tea from a mug. The sex they’d had was rough, or at least rougher than usual, enough for Poke to feel like he had it in him to say something. And Emil actually apologized. Said he didn’t know what’d come over him.
An apologetic john. It made Poke laugh. No one would’ve believed him, no one would’ve ever thought it conceivable. And that was enough for Poke to want to try again, and he straddled Emil, rocking the frame until the other man moaned underneath him.
Afterward, they realigned themselves, lost in a bundle of sheets.
So, Emil said. I don’t know what your friend should do, he said. I only know what I know. But I know that when you choose, you choose for yourself.
Poke stared at Emil. Then he stood up, and lumbered into the kitchen. He came back with a glass of water, and Emil thanked him with a grin.
Poke allowed Emil to weave his fingers through his hair, and Emil asked him how he’d feel if it were like this every night.
Poke didn’t say a damn thing.
He settled into the sheets, crooked his head on Emil43616e616461 knee.
It was a while before he fell asleep, and his dreams were not unpleasant.
Poke spent the next morning dozing on the sofa. He didn’t mention Emil43616e616461 question, and Emil didn’t bring it up. When Emil dropped Poke off, he waved goodbye, and Poke waved back, and he wondered if he’d ever see him again.
Nobody asked Poke where he’d been, or why he’d come back. The boys accepted him wordlessly. Scratch griped about the heat and Google told him to get a job and Knock called them all lazy fucks, and this, Poke thought, was just how life worked.
They took the night off, opting to walk the streets of Montrose. Nacho lifted a couple of six-packs from the CVS. The night felt pregnant with excitement for Poke, as did the next few evenings, and if he felt something missing then it sat under his gut, rustling only in periods of silence.
Poke didn’t think about Rod. He didn’t think about Emil. He thought about cheeseburgers from M&M Grill and getting fucked up and watching “Your Name” at the theatre on Greenway Plaza and the way the flowers on Elgin blossomed beside the town houses.
A few mornings later, Poke was eying the apartment ceiling when Google kicked him square in the ass. Wanna hear something wild?
Probably the last thing I need, Poke said.
Too late, Google said. Our humble leader43616e616461 been taking less calls. I heard he43616e616461 been turning people away, Google said, and he expected Poke to say something.
But all Poke did was blink.
Bullshit, Poke said.
Real talk.
Really.
You know anything about that?
Poke knew that the moment had fallen square into his lap. It would not come this easily again.
No, Poke said.
Figures, Google said.
The two boys settled into the silence. A pair of drunks argued downstairs.
Who’d you hear that from? Poke said.
People who’d know.
Poke looked at Google. He really didn’t mind him. He asked why the fuck Google was telling him now.
Ha, Google said.
Because he43616e616461 your boy, Google said. Figured if you didn’t know, it wasn’t happening.
Well, Poke said.
He picked at the hair on his thigh. And, for a moment, it looked like Google would say something devastating, something irreversible, the sort of thing you can never take back. So Poke did a very smart thing, a very sensible thing: he raised his leg, shut the eye, and let one go.
Fucking animal, Google said, but Poke looked him in his eyes and saw that he was grateful.
The next afternoon, Poke was dozing on the sofa, drumming his fingers along the length of his hip, when Scratch called him outside to the steps, practically yelling.
Doesn’t matter why, he said. Fucking family meeting.
Poke found the boys smoking in a loose congregation. They passed a cigarette between them.
Why the fuck we gotta whisper when we’re out here paying rent, Knock said.
Getting our backs broke for it, too, Scratch said.
Because I said so, Nacho said. Fuck.
Poke, he said. We think your boy43616e616461 got the bug.
A long horn went off in the lane below. A sliver of Spanish slipped out of an open window. Poke raised his eyebrows very high, and then sent them very low, and he thought about how you only felt so much in your face.
O.K., he said.
O.K., Scratch said.
Word, Google said.
O.K.? Nacho said. O.K.? You fucking hear me?
Well, Poke said.
Let43616e616461 say he does, Poke said. Hypothetically.
Hypothetically? Knock said.
Like, let43616e616461 imagine, Google said.
So Rod might not, Knock said, but he also—
Let this nigga speak, Nacho said.
All I’m saying, Poke said, is if he does have it—and I’m not saying he does—then so fucking what?
The boys looked at one another.
I mean, what43616e616461 it matter to you? Poke said.
It matters because this motherfucker43616e616461 lying, Nacho said. It matters that we’ve got a motherfucking hypocrite in the house. And you know the rules. You fucking know the rules. This shit is not new and you know what needs to happen.
So he43616e616461 poz, Poke said. O.K. Whatever. But you think you just breathe that shit in? You think it43616e616461 like a fucking cold?
It isn’t, Google said.
Really, Scratch said.
Look, Knock said. We feel where you’re coming from. We get you.
He43616e616461 your buddy, Nacho said. He brought you in. He made you a good boy and he got you off the street. Just like every nigga out here. Did the same for me. I know where you’re coming from.
The rest of the boys nodded. They allowed a moment of silence to pass.
But, Poke said.
But we can’t have that, Nacho said. We can’t have niggas walking around talking shit about us, too. Saying we’re sloppy. Because that43616e616461 what43616e616461 been happening. That43616e616461 what niggas are saying. Or hadn’t you noticed?
And the truth was that Poke hadn’t. He really hadn’t known. Between the thing with Emil, and the pocket of tricks he turned regularly, word of mouth and reputation weren’t things he’d had to worry about. But, glancing from one boy to the next, he saw this wasn’t the case all-around. There had been repercussions, even if he hadn’t seen them.
So you boot him off the island, Poke said.
That43616e616461 not what he43616e616461 saying, Google said.
It is exactly what the fuck I’m saying, Nacho said.
We’re all saying it, Knock said.
And you’re gonna do it, Nacho said.
Me, Poke said.
You, Scratch said.
Because, Nacho said.
If you’re really this motherfucker43616e616461 friend, Nacho said, if he43616e616461 really your fuckboy, you don’t want me having that conversation.
And, he said, gesturing across the entirety of the porch, you really want anyone else to?
The next time Poke showed up at Emil43616e616461, he brought a bag that he’d stuffed with all of his shit.
Emil didn’t mention it. He extended his hand. He ushered Poke in, showed him where to drop his clothes, and Poke did his best not to think about Rod43616e616461 new situation.
Emil explained about the locks in the apartment. He showed Poke how to fold the sheets. Poke learned that the water from Emil43616e616461 tap was drinkable, that he didn’t have to boil it or disinfect it or anything, and it was this discovery that nearly sank him, crumpling him into a heap by the cupboard.
In the third week, Poke got comfortable. He found himself sleeping in, until nine, ten, eleven. He’d open his eyes to the depression on the other side of the mattress, blinking at the lamps atop the dresser, and, on occasion, he’d wonder about the guys on [REDACTED]. But that only led to thinking about Rod, so Poke rejected the notion entirely.
Emil worked most days. In the evenings, he returned with dinner. He brought home whole roasted chickens, salmon wrapped in bay leaves, tomatoes ripe to the touch. For the first time in his life, Poke looked forward to food. Rice and beans and fish and curry and pasta and pizza and shrimp chips. Eventually, at Emil43616e616461 insistence, he tried a smear of tzatziki from Aladdin43616e616461, and refused to eat anything without it for days.
Emil watched him eat, sometimes talking endlessly. But sometimes he didn’t say a word.
Sometimes he just watched.
Most nights they fucked and then other nights they didn’t. The new life took getting used to, but Poke’d gotten used to things before.
He’d been living with Emil for a month when he finally asked for the favor. They were sitting at the table, hunched over a bowl of salad. At this point, they’d woven a routine into the evenings, and Poke felt as much a part of Emil43616e616461 life as anything else.
Poke told him he had a friend. Someone who needed a place to crash.
Not for long, he said. Just to get his feet back under him.
Emil chewed slowly. Poke’d grown used to the hair on his face, and the way that his cheeks rounded out around his nose, and the light in his eyes when he sulked. In all of Poke43616e616461 time at the brownstone, he hadn’t asked Emil for anything. But, then again, he hadn’t had to. That hadn’t been a problem at all.
Just for a while, Poke said.
A day or two, Poke said. Three max.
Sure, Emil said.
I don’t see why not, Emil said, and Poke felt his calves unclench.
The moisture in the room seemed to evaporate all at once. Poke was aware of the clashing colors on the wall. Emil asked him if he wanted more salad, and he nodded, dully, but giddy all the same.
Poke didn’t know where he’d find Rod, exactly, but he had a general idea. He hit the soup kitchens on Dowling, and the servers shook their heads. He checked the churches on [REDACTED], and the parishioners turned up their noses.
He checked the shelter on Rusk and the shelter on Main and the shelter on [REDACTED] and the shelter on Dunlavy, and the receptionists told Poke that they’d found him, Rod was here, Poke was just in time, he could come right this way, but, when they showed Poke whom they meant, it was just some starving dude they’d pulled off the corner downtown. Poke thought about checking in with the health center on [REDACTED], or the one on Branard, or this other one across town, but he decided against all that—help was the last thing Rod was looking for. He had too much hubris. That was the reason Poke was out here searching for him in the first place.
So Poke decided he’d ride the metro until he ran Rod down, because their city may have been big but their orbits were infinitesimally small. He alternated routes. Switched up his plans. He seldom took a day off, seldom broke for midmorning traffic. Poke thought about reaching out to the boys, plugging Google or Knock for a lead, but he knew exactly how that would go.
About a month after he’d started searching in earnest, Poke saw Rod as he glanced through a window by the warehouse district.
He’d nearly missed him. The metro had stopped at a light, and Poke got off. Rod was standing in line outside the soup kitchen, leaning like a dwarf among giants. He wore an unfamiliar expression, something Poke couldn’t quite put his finger on, and then he realized the look wasn’t new or unfamiliar at all, he’d just never seen it on Rod43616e616461 face.
Poke went over and tugged Rod43616e616461 sleeve. Rod didn’t turn around.
The line shuffled behind them. Rod43616e616461 shoulders sank. For the first time in a long time, the stench made Poke43616e616461 skin crawl.
Rod, Poke said, tugging at his sleeve.
Rod, Poke said, nudging his elbow.
John, Poke said, and this time Rod flinched, and he glanced Poke43616e616461 way, and he did not smile.
Poke waited for Rod to pull his meal from the kitchen. They found a cluster of stone bricks a block from the building. Men huddled on the lumps of moldy sofas around them, donning blankets and scarves and jackets.
Poke looked away. He wore khakis and a cardigan. For the very first time, he thought he really might have moved on.
He watched Rod eat in silence. They stared at the warehouses painted with graffiti.
You got fatter, Rod said, once the sky began to dim. Not that it43616e616461 the worst thing. You could argue that fatter43616e616461 good. Fat shows upward mobility. Fat means progress. Growth.
Poke watched Rod chew. He pulled at his sleeves.
How long you been out here, Poke said.
Long enough, Rod said. There was a coup, although I guess you already knew that.
Poke blinked, blushing.
For the first time since Poke’d found him, Rod smiled.
They caught me on a bad day, he said.
And you let them? Poke said.
I didn’t let anyone do shit, Rod said. I beat their asses. Then I bounced.
A handful of black dudes in snapbacks walked between them, grumbling. Rod and Poke ignored them.
They took everything, Rod said. All the money. All my clothes. They took my shit and they locked me out. Rod flicked his fingers across his nose. But enough about me. I must be boring you. Don’t ask me how I know, but it looks like you’ve found yourself a sugar daddy.
I want you to come with me, Poke said.
Of course you do, Rod said. You came all the way down here to save me.
Fuck you, Poke said. Emil said he43616e616461 fine with taking you in.
Jesusfuckingchrist, Rod said, you’ve moved in. He43616e616461 got you calling him by his fucking name. Here I was thinking you’d started your own crew. Running the streets. Paving your way. Never thought you’d turned bitch.
Rod, Poke said.
Full bitch.
I’m trying to help you.
And who43616e616461 Emil, anyways, Rod said. The dust bunny? Terrible fuck.
Poke stood and looked at Rod. Poke jammed his hands in his pockets, flexing his fingers, unforming fists.
He allowed himself to think that his friend looked a little pitiful.
Look at me, Poke said.
Rod didn’t.
And then he did.
I’m not going with you, Rod said. I’m not going anywhere. Call it a favor.
Because let43616e616461 say I steal your thunder, he said. Let43616e616461 say your plug takes me in. Then what? We both just live with him forever? I mean, imagine I decide to get comfortable. Let43616e616461 say he asks me to leave. You think I’m just supposed to go? You really think I’d let that happen? You think I’d just leave that shit in peace?
It was something that Poke had considered, Rod43616e616461 coming in and disrupting everything. Of course it was a possibility. But Poke hadn’t allowed himself to linger on it.
No, Rod said. I appreciate your concern. But I’m fine right here. I’ll figure something out. And, besides, you had your fucking chance. If you wanted to help, you should’ve stuck around.
Poke stared at the buildings in front of them, and then at the bodies and the trash and the litter. The homeless picked from one another43616e616461 bundles. A handful smoked cigarettes. Some sat off by themselves, lecturing invisible audiences, and Poke gave them one last glance before he spat between Rod43616e616461 eyes.
Rod didn’t move.
He just took it, smiling.
Poke walked the other way. He turned around to look at his friend. He ran a hand over his face and then he got the fuck out of there.
A couple times a week, Poke used Emil43616e616461 card and caught a Lyft to the warehouse district. Some days he posted up just across the road. He found a spot beyond the dumpsters, or the fences shielding Clinton, or the shacks stacked west of Hamilton and the feeder beneath the highway. Other days, he crossed the boulevard, staking out a position just beyond view. Far enough to hide but close enough to see.
The days Poke found Rod, he observed him. He lingered. Rod didn’t look any worse. He’d become part of the scenery.
Some days he looked like the Rod who’d taken Poke in. Shining with a stride. The captain of his space.
Most days he did not. Most days he just looked lost.
But Poke watched him regardless. Rod stared as if he were waiting for something. This thing he’d been cheated out of, his end of the deal. And Poke never closed the distance, he never called Rod43616e616461 name, but he kept coming, and watching, and waiting, for something.
Then one day Poke caught a ride in the afternoon. It’d rained softly all morning. There’d been an accident on the bridge, and a mist settled between the alleys. Poke43616e616461 Lyft stopped at the light before the intersection, and when he finally looked up he saw that Rod wasn’t under the bridge.
He was nowhere to be found.
So Poke checked the city43616e616461 shelters.
He checked the kitchens and the clinics.
He asked the squatters and the day workers and the addicts he passed on the road. Poke rode through East End and Midtown and Downtown and Montrose for weeks and weeks, scanning alleys and corners and shacks.
He looked for a long time. 

