
Backpack
By Tony Earley

John told the salesman at a Home Depot in Durham that the chain was for a porch swing, the concrete block for a step to the utility building in his back yard. The backpack and sleeping bag he purchased without explanation at an R.E.I. in Raleigh, the inflatable plastic raft, foot pump, and two-piece paddle at Walmart. He made up the name Jimmy Ray Gallup and, at a Goodwill in Mebane, picked out a hoodie, a navy T-shirt, work pants, and boots that Jimmy Ray Gallup would wear. He bought the toolbox and three padlocks from an Ace Hardware in Pittsboro. He paid cash for everything and threw the receipts away in trash cans outside the stores. He bought nothing in Chapel Hill.
The gun, an H&R .38, had been his grandfather’s. Because [REDACTED] hated guns, he hadn’t told her while they were dating that he owned one. Telling her after they got married would have made him seem dishonest, and telling her after Carly was born would have cost him his ass. So he hadn’t told her. They had been married twenty-nine years. Carly was now finishing a Ph.D. in particle physics at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. For the past twenty years, the gun had been wrapped in a Hall & Oates T-shirt on top of a rafter in the garage. The six cartridges he’d kept hidden in various pairs of seldom-worn socks.
He locked the concrete block in the toolbox and put the chain, the two remaining padlocks, the raft, the paddle, and the pump inside the backpack. He rolled the loaded gun up in the sleeping bag and strapped the sleeping bag to the pack frame. He shoved the Hall & Oates shirt into the backpack as well and stowed everything in the trunk of his car. He wasn’t sure how long it would take for all the security-camera footage of him walking through the stores to be recorded over, so he gave it a couple of weeks. Eventually he felt himself disappearing from view, vanishing from the aisles. One Monday morning, he got up early to see [REDACTED] before she left for work. Typically, when he wasn’t teaching, he slept in, sometimes until lunch. He didn’t sleep much at night anymore. Instead, he wandered around the house, staring at his phone, watching YouTube videos of famous chess matches. He found [REDACTED] folded neatly into the chair by the window in the den, already dressed in one of her dark, slim-cut suits, drinking coffee and reading a book about decluttering. She seemed surprised—and, he thought, not necessarily happy—to see him. She liked the house best early in the morning when she had it to herself.
“What are you doing up?” she asked.
“Good morning to you, too,” he said.
“Sorry. Good morning.”
“You still decluttering?”
“Not really,” she said. “But reading the book makes me feel like I am.”
“Can I get you some more coffee?”
She stared at him over the top of her reading glasses and scrunched up her nose, as if she were sniffing half-and-half after its expiration date. “Are you being weird?” she asked.
“No. I’m not being weird. I just asked you if you wanted some more coffee.”
“Why are you being weird?”
“C’mon, [REDACTED].”
She shrugged and looked back down at her book. “O.K. You’re not being weird.”
He sat down in the chair across from hers. “Hey,” he said. “Let’s start over.”
“All right,” she said, and closed her book. “Let’s start over. Good morning, John.”
“Good morning, [REDACTED].”
“So, what are you working on today?” she asked.
“That’s not starting over,” he said. “That’s nagging.”
“John. It’s a legitimate question. It’s a conversation starter. You told me last week that you were working on something. You seemed excited.”
He had been excited, but it had been about the backpack in his trunk. “Fritos,” he said. “I’m writing an article about Fritos.”
“Fritos.”
“The corn chips. The first American mass marketing of something purported to be Mexican. The Frito Bandito. Gross cultural appropriation as a harbinger of assimilation.” John had often daydreamed about getting out of American history and into American studies, but Orange Academy, where he taught tenth and eleventh graders, didn’t offer American studies. He wasn’t actually writing an article about Fritos, but he thought the idea had merit.
“Ay, yi yi yi,” she said.
“Nobody’s written about it before,” he said.
“I’m sorry. It sounds good. Go for it.” She stuck her feet into her high heels and stood up. “I guess I need to take off.”

[REDACTED] was an attorney in the general counsel’s office at U.N.C. She said that it was her job to put out brush fires before the News & Observer smelled the smoke.
“Anything big going on?” he asked.
“Just the usual. Frat boys selling heroin. Hookers in the football dorm.”
When she passed by his chair, he reached for her hand and squeezed it. “Bye, [REDACTED],” he said.
She grabbed a handful of his hair and gave his head a shake. Almost rough. “Write that article,” she said.
Once he figured that [REDACTED] had had time to get to the office, John cut off his hair and beard with the electric clippers they’d used to give bad haircuts to their old poodle, Joe Wolf. Joe Wolf had been dead, what? Ten years? John lathered up and shaved his head and face, leaving only the Fu Manchu that he thought would be right for Jimmy Ray Gallup. He hadn’t seen his face clean-shaven since college, and, to the best of his recollection, had never laid eyes on his scalp. His head was pale and lumpy, white as a bathing cap, but the mustache, he had to admit, looked cool. Jimmy Ray Gallup glared back at him from the mirror and said, “The fuck you looking at?”
John and Jimmy Ray Gallup were the same age and had come from the same small town in the mountains—maybe they were cousins, who knew—but Jimmy Ray Gallup had never had John’s luck in life. He hadn’t been the smartest kid in the class, Mr. Straight A, the perpetual teacher’s pet; he hadn’t gone to Western Carolina on a scholarship, or come within a dissertation chapter of a Ph.D. in history; he hadn’t married a beautiful athlete who became an attorney, or lived in a beautiful house, or driven a beautiful car, or raised a beautiful daughter who was about to finish her dissertation on something that maybe two hundred people on earth would understand. No, Jimmy Ray Gallup’s work had come to naught. He had never been loved the way he’d wanted to be. He was behind on all his payments. When he walked on the beach, he barely left footprints.
In the garage, John dressed in Jimmy Ray Gallup’s Goodwill clothes and tied a bandanna pirate style around his head. He climbed into the car, removed the passcode from his phone, and searched for the Frito-Lay home page and the starting times of the ligo laser show at the Morehead Planetarium. He opened the ligo Web site and quickly scrolled through the pages. He texted Carly, “Going to the Morehead for the ligo show. Wish you were here to explain it to me! I love you, Dad,” and texted [REDACTED], “You looked pretty sitting by the window. Mexican tonight?” Then he leaned forward and rested his head on the steering wheel until the interior of the car grew stuffy and he began to doze off. He removed his driver’s license and credit cards from his wallet and placed them and his remaining cash into the duct-tape wallet that Carly had made for his birthday when she was ten, which he had kept in his underwear drawer ever since. He tossed the phone and his emptied wallet onto the passenger-side floorboard, slipped on Jimmy Ray Gallup’s tacky sunglasses—the ones with the earpieces that looked like braided gold chains—and checked himself in the mirror one last time. His teeth were too white and straight, and he wished he could’ve got some sort of lurid tattoo, maybe a grim reaper or a flaming skull or a single teardrop underneath his eye, but still, if anyone happened to notice a man walking away from John’s Audi, it was Jimmy Ray Gallup they would describe to the police.
John backed out of the garage and drove to Statesville, stopping first at a Shell station in Asheboro, where he wrapped the credit cards in a paper towel and buried them at the bottom of the men’s-room trash can. In Statesville, he parked a few blocks from the bus station, left the keys in the ignition, and walked the rest of the way. The backpack wasn’t that heavy, but the toolbox weighed a miserable thirty-six pounds. He had to stop every forty yards or so, put it down, and shake out his arms.
The guy behind the counter at the station had admirably coffee-stained teeth and near-perfect disdain for Jimmy Ray Gallup. His nametag said “Wilson.” John reluctantly handed over his driver’s license, the single footprint, and asked for a ticket to [REDACTED]. He was headed, generally, for Lake Superior, and would reconnoitre once he got to Lake Michigan.
Wilson glanced at John’s license and then at Jimmy Ray Gallup. “This doesn’t look like you,” he said.
John removed the bandanna. Jimmy Ray Gallup said, “I just had chemo.”
“Let me see your eyes.”
John pushed Jimmy Ray’s sunglasses onto his forehead. Wilson looked into John’s face and back down at the license, then returned it. John lowered the sunglasses and pulled the bandanna back over his head.
Jimmy Ray Gallup said, “They had to cut one of my nuts off.”
Wilson pointed at the toolbox on the floor. “What’s in there?” he asked.


“Tools.”
“What kind of tools?”
“Stonemason tools.”
Wilson began to type. “That’ll be one sixty-two,” he said.
Jimmy Ray Gallup dropped the backpack beside the baggage compartment of the bus and deadlifted the toolbox up the steps. Everyone on board studiously avoided looking at him; the empty seats he passed were barricaded with headless headphones and aggressively opened magazines and emptied-out fast-food bags. He had almost reached the end of the aisle when a girl, twentysomething, maybe a few years younger than Carly, pulled a toddler into her lap from the seat beside her and said, “You can sit here.” She had a small-featured, open face waxing into roundness, pretty in the way a girl who was beautiful might use the word to describe a girl who wasn’t. The child in her lap studied Jimmy Ray, as if making some sort of onerous decision. A ring of fresh Doritos dust circled the serious red pout of the child’s lips. After a while, she leaned back against her mother, stuck her thumb in her mouth, and stared off into space. Jimmy Ray Gallup nodded at the mother. She smiled back a little too hopefully, John thought, like the quiet girl who’d sat in the front row of geometry class, hoping that someone at the reunion would remember her name. The overhead bins were full. She lifted her thighs from the seat and pointed at the toolbox. “Slide that over here,” she said. “I’m short. I’ll put my feet on it.”
The bus stopped in Hickory, and Morganton, and Marion, and, Jesus H. Christ, Old Fort. The girl’s name was Carmen. Her daughter was named Adele. They had gone to Fayetteville to surprise Brandon, Adele’s father, who was stationed at Fort Bragg. Brandon, Carmen had found out when she got there, had another girlfriend, Bethany, who was six months pregnant. Bethany hadn’t known about Carmen and Adele. Eventually one of the neighbors had called the M.P.s. Carmen said that she was too tired to cry now, but when she got back to [REDACTED] she was going to get in the shower and bawl until the hot water ran out.
He told her that his name was Jimmy Ray Gallup. He was a ship’s mechanic, on his way to Lake Superior, looking for a job on one of the big ore boats. He’d always wanted to see Lake Superior, all the Great Lakes, really. Mackinac Island. Sault Sainte Marie. He’d been in Fort Lauderdale since he got out of the Navy, in ’97, working on cruise ships, but had got tired of sailing back and forth to [REDACTED], and tired of bumping into his ex-wife and the deadbeat she lived with every time he went out for a beer. She wouldn’t marry the guy, so he had to keep paying alimony and the note on the condo. Looking for a change, was all.
They reached the Black Mountain grade at dusk and watched the great mountains to the south darkening against the sky. As night fell, outside Asheville, their faces materialized in the black glass of the window, shot through by quick spears of headlight cast from the eastbound lanes. John began to sense the world unravelling behind him, the tightly braided strands of his life snapping free with sharp cracks. He pictured his phone ringing and ringing on the floorboard of his car, a Statesville police cruiser parked behind the Audi, the cool strobe of blue light. [REDACTED] would have called Carly by now. What do you mean, missing? They found his car where? But he texted me from the planetarium.
Carmen tapped his reflection with her fingernail. “Hey, you,” she said to the window. “What are you thinking about?”
They had two hours to kill in the Asheville bus station. John helped Carmen carry her bags into the waiting room. She picked out four seats together and said, “Is this O.K.?” John dropped the diaper bag onto an empty seat and squatted the toolbox to the floor. They took turns going to the bathroom and watching each other’s stuff. They ate dinner out of the vending machines and complained about the uncomfortable chairs. Why were plastic chairs always orange? Jimmy Ray shared a bag of Fritos with Adele and watched the other people in the waiting room pretend not to watch the three of them, that strange little family over there—the old pirate in the sunglasses, the too-young-for-him chunky girl with the dirty-faced kid, who obviously wasn’t his. Who was lucky and who should have known better? Who was the catch and who’d got caught? Jimmy Ray Gallup aimed the dead stare of his sunglasses at each of the lookers in turn. What are you looking at? You’re riding the dog, too, fuckhead, mind your own business. He looped his arm over the back of Carmen’s chair.
The bus, when it came, looked almost new. It seemed to have arrived from a better future. Its shiny skin glinted in the sodium light of the loading bay; its floor wasn’t sticky; the seats didn’t smell like fried chicken. They were moving up in the world. Although there was plenty of room, they took the seats that corresponded to the ones they had occupied on the previous bus, where they had met. Back out on I-40, the driver dimmed the cabin lights, and one by one the reading lamps blinked off. A man and a woman somewhere near the front of the bus talked softly, their words intimate and indistinguishable, like the nighttime conversation of loving parents on the far side of a wall. John adjusted the air vent above his head and pointed it at his face. Nothing like it, mountain air.
He tried to stay awake until they passed the exit to [REDACTED] 74, the road to Cullowhee, where he and [REDACTED] had gone to college, and, beyond Cullowhee, Argyle, where he had grown up, the smartest boy in school, president of the chess club, youth-group leader, captain of the basketball team. He and [REDACTED] had met in their sophomore year of college, at an intramural volleyball match. She was a ringer, the setter for a team of frat boys. She had come to Western on an athletic scholarship but had decided to concentrate on her studies. John played for the History Department. His team was terrible. [REDACTED] was short—short girls, in his limited experience, were embarrassing to slow-dance with and, for that reason, were best avoided, lest dancing break out—but, God, she was good at volleyball. She made the frat boys look better than frat boys had any right to look. The first time she and John rotated past each other at the net, she looked up at him and said, “Your team really sucks.” He said, “Yes. Yes, it does, but we know all about the Articles of Confederation.” He had never before understood how to flirt, but now, miraculously, he knew. Next rotation she said, “Didn’t you play basketball for Argyle? I went to Revis.” He said, “I know, I always looked for you in the stands.” She said, “It is so gross that you would say that,” but, when he blocked a frat boy for a side-out, she reached under the net and slapped his hand.
After the match, they sat on the gym floor and talked until the intramural director threw them out. They began to study together. They figured out slow-dancing. They graduated and married and worked and graduated again and had a baby and the baby grew up and went off to college. John developed a slow air leak. He could not stay properly inflated. He could not be patched. He wandered around late at night staring at his phone. He bought a backpack.
Somewhere in the twist of gorge between Waynesville and Newport, [REDACTED] placed Carly in his lap and he lifted her until she nuzzled into the crook of his neck. [REDACTED] leaned against his shoulder and reached for his hand. John knew that he was on a bus, that with every droning mile the bus travelled it took him farther and farther away from [REDACTED] and Carly, and would eventually take him so far away that he would never see them again, but he also knew that somehow they were on the bus with him and would stay with him as long as he didn’t open his eyes.
Newport. Gatlinburg. [REDACTED]. Carmen yawned and said, “You know, I don’t think I ever really loved Brandon.”
“Every Brandon I ever met was a little piece of shit,” Jimmy Ray Gallup said.
“I mean, after I got pregnant, I guess I thought, Well, he seems good enough. I didn’t want Adele to grow up without a daddy, and you get good benefits in the Army, and he said he was going to take us with him to South Korea. So I thought, Well, why not? When am I ever going to go to South Korea?”
Crossville. Cookeville. [REDACTED] at sunrise, the skyline glinting like Oz, a skyscraper shaped like Batman’s head. The sidewalk outside the bus station smelled like piss, but inside the eggs were good. Carmen reached over and took off Jimmy Ray’s sunglasses. John watched her eyes move back and forth between each of his. She shook her head slightly and frowned.
“What?” he asked.
“You don’t look like you,” she said. “Your eyes don’t look like your eyes.”
“Who else’s eyes would they be?”
Her middle name was Ashley. Her sister’s name was C.J. They had grown up on a dairy farm in Cohee, [REDACTED]. A thousand acres, a hundred cows. When she was ten and C.J. was sixteen, their daddy’s cap fell into the corn auger and he reached in after it without thinking. They got him to 556e6974656420537461746573polis on the helicopter, but he had a heart attack and died while they were trying to sew his hand back on. They lost the farm. Their mother got messed up on drugs and O.D.’d on fentanyl in Fort Wayne two years ago, with a biker she’d met on the Internet. No, Jimmy Ray didn’t have any family to speak of. A few cousins in [REDACTED], but they didn’t stay in touch; his ex-wife, but that didn’t really count, did it? It was just him now.
Bowling Green. Cave City. Adele dropped a diaper load that fouled the whole bus. People turned around and stared. “Oh. My. God. Let me out of here,” Carmen said, climbing over Jimmy Ray with Adele clinging to her neck. She yanked at the diaper bag in the overhead compartment.
“You need any help?” John asked.
“No, thanks, sweetie. I got it,” Carmen said.
Elizabethtown, [REDACTED], the high bridge, the wide river, a towboat pushing six empty barges. Welcome to [REDACTED]. Adele played peekaboo with Jimmy Ray’s sunglasses. “We’re home,” Carmen said, although they were still two hours south of 556e6974656420537461746573polis, and Cohee was another hour north of the city. John had travelled too far to turn around. He had bought a concrete block, shaved his head, left the keys in his car. He had imagined the [REDACTED] State Police stopping the bus at the border, but Jimmy Ray Gallup had given everyone the slip.
“I can’t go back home,” John said, the thought itself a frontier seeded with mines.
“Why can’t you go home?”
“Restraining order,” Jimmy Ray said.
“Well, O.K. Restraining order. That’s not a big deal. I took one out on this guy one time and we’re still friends. Just don’t keep driving by her house all the time.”
Adele handed him back his sunglasses.
He put them on and took a deep breath. “And I don’t want to go to Lake Superior,” he said. “But it’s too late not to go. I don’t know what else to do.”
“Then come home with me.”
Carmen’s sister and brother-in-law had dropped their PT Cruiser off at the 556e6974656420537461746573polis bus station. Carmen’s Pontiac had recently died. Rush hour, then S.R. 61 and two-lane [REDACTED]—green fields, blue sky, white clouds, white houses, white barns, tiny towns pinned to the soybean fields with white church steeples. Johnsontown, Siltberg, Rowena, Welcome to, Thank You, Please Come Again, giant green tractors crawling home, an Amish wagon, a straw hat and a beard, two gray horses.
Cohee was a ball field, an elementary school, a tiny park, and a four-way stop. Emerson’s Grocery, an abandoned Pure station, a brick-box post office, Kent’s Tavern. A cowbell clanked over the door at Kent’s. Two of the four Carhartts at the bar half swivelled on their stools and looked over their shoulders. Red vinyl booths, a faded Bobby Knight poster, a dozen framed photos of Little League teams wearing Kent’s Tavern jerseys. Adele ran across the floor and behind the bar, where Carmen’s sister scooped her up. “Hey there, pumpkin bread,” she said. “Aunt C.J. missed you.” C.J. was all sharp edges and sinew, nothing soft about that one, her eyes a screen door slamming. She carried Adele across the barroom and up to Jimmy Ray and stared hard into his sunglasses. “Who’s the pirate?” she asked, addressing Carmen.
John was running low on air. Jimmy Ray didn’t say anything.
“This is Jimmy Ray,” Carmen said. “I met him in [REDACTED].”
“Why does he wear sunglasses in the house?”
“Why don’t you ask him yourself?”
“Hey. Why do you wear sunglasses in the house?”
“Photosensitivity,” Jimmy Ray mumbled. “From welding.”
“You never told me that,” Carmen said. She slid into a booth and reached for the menu. “I’m starving.”
“Car, you know I can’t keep feeding you and whatever you drag in here,” C.J. said. “I can get something for Adele.”
 “I got this one,” John said. “This one is on me.”
Carmen and Adele lived in a single-wide trailer on a dirt road across a soybean field from downtown Cohee. John hoisted Carmen’s bags from the car while she carried Adele inside. Wagon-wheel chandelier, cereal boxes, dirty dishes, green shag carpet, orange vinyl couch patched with duct tape, two sad-looking boys dressed as matadors staring from a painting on the wall. John dropped his backpack onto the couch, then scraped and banged Carmen’s luggage down a hallway barely wider than his shoulders. Adele, sound asleep, bobbed spread-eagle in the middle of a room-size waterbed. He heard Carmen peeing on the other side of a thin wall. “Just throw those anywhere,” she called out.
John slept in what Carmen referred to as “the guest room.” Queen-size bed, heirloom walnut dresser and chest, beat-up crib, exercise bicycle humped with coats, nowhere to stand, much less walk. The bed was mounded with laundry—clean, she assured him, she just hadn’t had time to fold it, sorry about that. She climbed onto the bed and tossed the laundry into the crib, then crawled to the window and switched on the air-conditioner. It roared frigidly to life, a bomber taking off in the Arctic. “I’m sorry that’s so loud,” she said. “But it was made for a room a lot bigger than this.”
“I like sleeping in the cold,” John said. “I like the noise. It’s fine.”
“And I’m afraid this mattress isn’t very good. You’re welcome to come sleep with me and Adele if you want. There’s plenty of room.”
“I’d better not. Waterbeds make me seasick.”
“O.K. Well. Sleep tight.”
“You, too.”
Sometime during the middle of the night, John tossed all the laundry from the crib onto the bed, slid back beneath the covers, and piled it on top of himself. He was still burrowing beneath the clothes when the door opened and Carmen slipped into the room, wearing a gauzy white nightgown. She left the door ajar, the light on in the hallway. She eased onto the edge of the bed, sat back on her heels, and crossed her hands in her lap. John watched her from under the sweatpants he had draped over his head. She smoothed the nightgown across her lap, then reached over and poked him in the leg. “Hey,” she said. “Are you awake?”
“Hey,” he said. “Not really.”
“I can’t go to sleep. Do you want to do something?”
“Like what?”
“I don’t know. We could watch some porn, maybe? Or something like that?”
“Oh,” John said. “Oh, no. No, thank you. I think I’m too tired for a movie.”
“You’re probably right. I don’t think I could stay awake for a whole one.” She picked up a tiny pair of overalls from the laundry pile, held them up, sniffed them, and tossed them into the crib. “Do you want to watch part of one?”
“Carmen. I’m really, really tired. Please go back to bed.”
“O.K. I guess I’m getting a little sleepy now, too. I just thought, well, if you wanted to, we could do something.”
“I know. I appreciate it. Good night, Carmen.”
She crawled backward off the bed and waved from the hallway. She said, “Good night, Jimmy Ray,” and closed the door.
Midday, Carmen and Adele dragged him out of bed for a picnic. They drove around the soybean field, turned right at Kent’s, travelled fifty yards down the highway, and pulled off the road at the Cohee municipal park. Swings, seesaw, monkey bars jammed into a weedy rectangle of mulch, a cedar gazebo, three picnic tables, a scrawny maple tree casting a thin slice of adolescent shade across a water fountain. Carmen set out pimento-cheese sandwiches cut into triangles, a bag of Doritos, a carton of sugar-free lemonade. C.J. walked up and dropped an extra-long sub wrapped in white paper onto the table. “Emerson’s puts way too much meat on their sandwiches,” she said. “I hope you like pastrami.”
When Carmen took Adele to play on the swings, C.J. moved around the table and parked in front of Jimmy Ray, her back to her sister, her posture conversational, her hands crossed peaceably on the tabletop. “O.K.,” she said. “This is the part where I’m supposed to get to know you and find out what a great guy you are.”
“Good luck with that,” Jimmy Ray said.
“Did you sleep with her last night?”
“No.”
“You planning on sleeping with her tonight?”
“Nope.”
“You know she thinks you’re her boyfriend.”
“I don’t know where she gets that.”
“You followed her home, asshole. You looked at her twice. You told her you thought her kid was cute. You had a pulse.”
“I haven’t laid a finger on her.”
“She doesn’t know you from Adam and you’re staying in her goddam trailer.”
“Guest room,” he said.
“Right. Why are you lying to my sister?”
“I’m not lying to anybody.”
“Bullshit. You’ve never been a mechanic. You’ve never welded. I can tell from those pretty hands of yours you’ve never worked an honest day in your life. What else are you lying about? What are you? Terrorist? Serial killer? Pedophile?”
John didn’t say anything. She had a point about his hands. Jimmy Ray needed another line of work.
“I don’t know who you are,” she said, “and I don’t know what your deal is, but you don’t get to sail in here and play make-believe with my sister. You don’t get to screw around with Carmen, and you better not screw around with me.”
“I’m not trying to screw around with anybody.”
“Whatever. I’m giving you twenty-four hours. Adele is spending the night with me, and if you’re still in [REDACTED] when I bring her home I swear to God I will rip your arm off and beat you to death with it in the middle of the yard. Did you get all that?”
“I got it,” John said.
“C.J.!” Carmen called from the swings. “Look how brave this girl is!”


C.J. spun around on the bench and clapped. “Oh, Adele! Look at you!” she cried. “Look how high you are!”
John went back to bed when they returned to the trailer and stayed there the rest of the day. The roar of the air-conditioner and the cold pressing down were the only things that kept his soul from slipping out of his body. The few times he got up to go to the bathroom, he thought the quiet outside the guest room would pound him into the ground. The warm air was too heavy to push out of his way. Carmen brought him a cup of tomato soup for supper, but he wasn’t very hungry.
Sometime during the night, she dragged the backpack through the doorway by its straps. She left the door open, the light on in the hall, climbed onto the bed, and began unloading the pack’s contents. She placed the box containing the raft onto the mattress and stacked the paddle and the foot pump on top of it. She dropped the chain onto the bed, studied the two padlocks, then placed them carefully next to the chain.
John dug himself out of the clothes pile and sat up. “Hey,” he said. “What’s going on?”
“I need you to tell me what you plan on doing with all this stuff.”
“Why? Why are you going through my things?”
“C.J. told me to. She said you could be in isis for all we knew.”
“Did you unroll the sleeping bag?”
“You shouldn’t have brought a loaded gun into my house,” she said. “I have a baby.”
“You’re right,” John said. Jimmy Ray Gallup was a dumbass, but John should’ve known better. He hated to think what [REDACTED] or C.J. would say if they found out. “You’re absolutely right. I’m really, really sorry. Where’s the gun now?”
“I put it back in the sleeping bag, but I threw the bullets out in the field.”
“O.K.,” he said. “O.K. That’s a good idea. That’s fine.”
She poked the chain with her forefinger as if checking to see if it was alive. “What’s this for?”
John shook his head.
“You’re staying in my house. C.J. thinks you’re dangerous. You have to tell me what you plan on doing with this.”
What the hell, Jimmy Ray thought. Tell her. You fucked up when you let her get hold of your gun.
“I was going to ride the bus to Lake Superior and hitchhike until I was in the middle of nowhere and it was the middle of the night. Then I was going to inflate the raft, chain the cement block around my waist, and row out into the lake. Then I was going to shoot a hole in the raft and shoot myself in the head.”
Carmen sat still for a long time, then picked up the locks and placed them on top of the chain. She wiped her nose with the back of her hand. “I don’t know,” she said finally. “That water’s so clear, you could be a hundred feet down and somebody might still see you.”
“I didn’t know that about the water,” John said. “I’ve never been to Lake Superior.”
“Why didn’t you wait until you got up there to get a cement block, instead of dragging one all over the country in that toolbox? I would’ve just gotten a hunting vest and filled the pockets up with rocks.”
“It was just a plan,” John said. “It didn’t work. I didn’t make it. Now I don’t have a plan.”
In the morning, he told himself, she would give him a ride to the 556e6974656420537461746573polis bus station. He would take what little money he had left and buy Jimmy Ray Gallup a ticket to wherever. He would get off the bus when it stopped. Carmen would drive back to Cohee, and the next day return to work at the Wendy’s in Rowena. Eventually some other dickhead would fly in under C.J.’s radar and look twice at Carmen, and she would smile and tell him he could sit beside her if he wanted to.
“Oh, I almost forgot,” she said. “I washed your Hall & Oates shirt.” She took it out of the pack and handed it to him. It smelled like sunlight when he held it up to his face.
John and [REDACTED] had seen Hall & Oates in Clemson, South Carolina, shortly after they started dating. It was the first time they had gone on an overnight trip together. The first time they had stayed in a motel. John hadn’t understood the Littlejohn Coliseum floor plan and had ordered tickets that proved to be on the floor but behind the stage. John and [REDACTED] had occasionally got a decent look at Hall, who was tall, but hardly ever caught sight of Oates, who was so small he could’ve hidden inside the kick drum. The only musician they could really see was the saxophone player—Hall had introduced him as Mr. Casual—who played some of his solos on their side of the stage.
“I think I like you better without the bandanna and sunglasses,” Carmen said. She reached forward and briefly rubbed his head. “You seem more like John.”
He blinked at her. “John.”
“Gale. I found your driver’s license.”
“Oh, Carmen.”
“Please don’t be mad.”
“I’m not mad, but, Jesus Christ, I was trying to disappear. Now you know where I am.”
She looked down at her hands. “And I told [REDACTED] where you are,” she said.
You done done it now, Jimmy Ray thought. The state troopers would be banging on the door any minute. Within hours, he would be involuntarily committed to a hospital in 556e6974656420537461746573polis. They would hold him until [REDACTED] made arrangements to get him to [REDACTED]. She might let him move back into the house once he got out of whatever depression camp she sent him to, but she would never forgive him. Every time she looked at him, she would remember that he had once got on a bus headed north, packing a concrete block and a gun he’d never told her about.
“After I found your driver’s license, I looked you up on my phone. Everybody in [REDACTED] is looking for you. You’re trending on Twitter. I sent [REDACTED] a private message. I thought she would see it in the morning, but she called me back in about thirty seconds.”
“What did she say?”
“She said for me to keep me and my family safe, not to try to stop you if you wanted to leave, but to call the police if you did. She said to tell you she’s on her way.”
When John got dressed that morning, he put on the T-shirt. The elastic in the neck had disintegrated after all those years in the garage, but it was the only article of clothing he had with him that didn’t belong to Jimmy Ray Gallup. He also put on Jimmy Ray’s bandanna and sunglasses, because, although it was Jimmy Ray who had sneaked him out of [REDACTED], it was also Jimmy Ray who had followed Carmen and Adele off the bus in 556e6974656420537461746573polis. Somehow it seemed important that Jimmy Ray stay until [REDACTED] came.
That night in Clemson, [REDACTED] hadn’t said anything about how bad the seats were, but she hadn’t needed to. They might as well have been seated in Section M, for Moron. They had slept together by then, the first time for both of them, but they had never spent a whole night together. John desperately wanted to take a shower with her. He had never taken a shower with a girl before, but who would want to take a shower with somebody as stupid as he was? [REDACTED] made the best of it, though. She led him to the barricade at the base of the stage. She danced and held his hand and got him to dance, and every time Mr. Casual wandered around to their side of the stage she climbed onto John’s shoulders and waved her arms and screamed as if God himself had come down from Heaven just to stand at the back of that stage and blow the break to “Maneater.”
John and Carmen waited for [REDACTED] on the front stoop of the trailer while Adele played in the yard. He kept an eye on the four-way stop across the soybean field, while Carmen leaned against him and looked at pictures on John’s Facebook page on her phone. Is [REDACTED]’s hair really that color? How tall is Carly? Is this your house? Is this your car? She showed John a photo of him in his classroom at Orange Academy, his feet crossed on his desk, his hands behind his head, a big grin on his face. Chairman of the History Department. Fully inflated.
“I never really liked history in high school,” Carmen said. “I never saw the point to it.”
“I guess there’s not much point to it,” John said. “It’s just a bunch of stories we tell each other. The only important part is who gets to go first.”
Once upon a time, a man sat with a girl on the front stoop of a trailer in Cohee, [REDACTED]. A toddler played in the yard. The man had set out on a journey to kill himself and the girl had accidentally stopped him. On the other side of a soybean field, an expensive white car turned left at a four-way stop, drove to the end of the field, and turned left again onto the dirt road where the trailer was parked. The woman in the car was coming to take the man home.
“She’s here,” John said.
“Come here, Adele,” Carmen said. “Let Mommy wipe your face off.”
The car slowed, tentatively turned into Carmen’s driveway, and stopped, half in and half out of the street. Carmen gave the car a little wave, and it pulled into the yard beside the dead Pontiac. John pinched the shoulders of his shirt and pulled them back so that the neck didn’t sag in front.
In Clemson, during the last encore, Mr. Casual had pointed to [REDACTED] and mouthed, “This is for you,” before his final solo, then he dropped to his knees, bent himself around his saxophone, and blew a note so high and held it for so long that John, a Methodist, ordinarily reserved, began to scream in astonishment. [REDACTED] jumped about so wildly on his shoulders that he almost dropped her. The people around them threw their beers in the air. Eventually, though, Mr. Casual had to let go of the note. He staggered to his feet, finished the last bars of the solo, spent, his face purple. He blew [REDACTED] a kiss, tapped his heart twice, and pointed at John, and then he was gone. The band bowed to the other side of the arena, then left the stage. The lights came up. But when John swung [REDACTED] down from his shoulders, she leaped back into his arms and kissed him. Your kiss. Your kiss. Is on my list. On the way out of the building, John bought a T-shirt.
The car door opened and [REDACTED] emerged, frowning. She wasn’t sure she was in the right place. “Excuse me,” she said. John stood up and removed the bandanna and the sunglasses. [REDACTED] stepped out from behind the car door. She opened her arms. “John,” she said. “Oh, John.” 

