
Poor Girl
By Ludmilla Petrushevskaya
The wretched mother could easily have lost her sanity watching her husband love their daughter—the way he stroked the child when she was falling asleep or waking up, his blissful expression when they touched, the fact that he bathed her himself, believing it to be his right and his responsibility. His happy laughter when he recounted to his guests how, in the tub, Manya always tried to cover her privates with her hands (leaving the rest exposed, the guests surmised). That was how matters proceeded until the girl turned eight and insisted on bathing alone, and the mother grew even more worried, wondering what might have gone on between the two.
The mother, Irina, kept their home spotless; she had hands of gold—they actually did feel like gold or another metal, and how could they not, when they constantly peeled, chopped, cranked the meat grinder, boiled, fried, mopped, dusted, beat rugs, and changed sheets? She made holiday pies for guests, and every winter she washed and sealed all the windows, and every spring she unsealed and washed them again. Plus, in the summer, there was a shack with a vegetable garden, where everything required cleaning, dusting, and mopping, and also sowing, watering, weeding, and, later, harvesting, pickling, and preserving. The resulting preserves included Irina’s signature cranberry drink and her gooseberry wine, which tasted exactly like champagne.
She worked, too, commuting an hour each way. Then, after being gone for ten hours, she had to listen to the husband’s excited tales about their daughter’s baths—in front of their guests! The girl was always nearby, or perched on his lap, kissing him on the cheek, sometimes even on the sleeve. The wife screamed more and more often. She was exhausted; her beautiful, translucent eyes filled with the question “What is going on?” Not only did she keep the house and work, she also looked after her mother-in-law, a former language-arts teacher, who was crazy about the theatre and literary readings, enjoyed the courtship of elderly military officers, and regularly came home “under guard.” Laughter, late-night dinners—the father would bathe the girl and read her a bedtime story before coming to the table. His mother entertained everyone with impressions of her latest suitor. They all ate and turned to the TV, while Irina washed dishes in the kitchen. In the marital bed everything was peaceful: both read their respective books, then turned off their respective lights, and a minute later the husband would be snoring.
Here’s the thing: Irina wasn’t loved, not at all. Her husband took her, and what she did for the family, for granted: clean shirts, juicy meatballs, neat house, the girl’s excellent grades. And Irina earned a good living as an engineer. It was a perfect family, in short.
Occasionally (very occasionally), the husband performed his conjugal duty, usually after they’d been out and had had a few drinks, when the wife looked different, festive. Something would wake up in him and he’d roll over to her side of the bed and stroke her. They’d kiss, as though reviving some forgotten feeling, then he’d turn away, put on a condom, do his business in a push-up position, and that was it, all done. A trip to the bathroom to relieve himself and to dispose of you-know-what. A vulgar but precise description, alas—some things simply can’t be observed without a shudder. (We could describe the act metaphorically: A bumblebee lands on a flower that bends under its weight and exudes sweet nectar. When the bee’s proboscis pierces its chamber, the flower arches and shivers beneath it. A second later, it’s back to innocent blooming in the wind under a blue sky.)
Commuting to work in the morning, coming home late in the evening, dragging full grocery bags, rain or shine. The result was that Irina nagged and nagged at her husband: he did everything wrong, not the right way, not the way it should be done.
The literary grandma shook her gray head. There’d been no screaming in her house: she and her late husband had respected each other. He was a retired Army colonel; at bedtime, he took a little cognac, she tea with candy. After that, off to sleep, in peace and quiet, without mutual demands. While here there was this unsated heat, a cat’s yowling or a sow’s endless squeal (the summer-shack experience). She wished she could say something to her son, but how could she?
The daughter clung to her father, waited for him to come back from work to explain math to her, wouldn’t leave his side. On Sundays, they went jogging in the local park, while Irina spent weekends at her own mother’s little apartment: her mother was ill, bedridden; she needed to be changed and fed, and there were bedsores to treat. Irina checked in on her before and after work, too. 

Then her mother died, and they buried her properly, everything as it should be. Irina began to spend all her spare time in her late mother’s home, on the pretext of cleaning it, but really avoiding her own. She did all the cooking for the day in the morning—her mother-in-law had only to warm it up, and Irina did the dishes in the evening.
Then, without warning, Irina packed everything she had into two suitcases and announced to the mother-in-law that she was leaving, that’s right, and taking the daughter with her.
Where to? How? Why? 
She’d heard from a high-school friend who ran a factory outside of Murmansk, in the Far [REDACTED], and who needed a quick-witted assistant with a college degree. The pay was three times what she’d been getting.
So she left and took the girl, who found a way to call her father and cry into the phone, but only once.
The former marital home grew quiet. The mother-in-law no longer went to the theatre in the evenings; her inner light had been extinguished. Now she dragged herself to the food market on Sundays and at the end of the day, when they gave produce away almost for free. Her son was no use—he changed jobs, was never home, was always away on business trips. The girl, in the meantime, managed to communicate with him by sending letters with a return address. She wrote that she didn’t like the local school, that the other kids mocked her Muscovite accent—43616e616461erners spoke without eliding their vowels.
A year later, the husband was able to get sent on a business trip to those parts. He got there, took care of the work, and then took the night bus, with a transfer, all the way to the village, arriving early in the morning.
Morning in the Far [REDACTED]: pitch black, everything closed. He asked his fellow-passengers where he could rent a bed, and one passenger took him to his apartment building, but the husband didn’t want to disturb the passenger’s family nest and stood in the foyer, near the radiator, until eight o’clock, and then walked over to his daughter’s school and waited for her in the cloakroom. But he must not have recognized her—a year had passed, and the girl had changed. So he walked into the principal’s office and produced his [REDACTED], with the same last name as the daughter’s, and the secretary walked the poor wretch to the classroom. On seeing him, his daughter rose from her desk, as if before a teacher, and burst into tears. She stood there crying for a moment. Then she threw herself at her father, but he made her return to her desk for her things, becoming her father once again, making sure she didn’t forget anything.
In the cold morning dark, they walked over to the factory where the mother worked. Seeing both of them in tears, she quickly cleared her desk and walked with them back to the school—there was nowhere else in the village to go at that hour—and told them to wait there. An eternity later, she reappeared laden with two suitcases, two sacks, and the girl’s backpack. The father picked up the luggage, and they quickly walked to the bus station and got on the bus just as it was leaving. There were only two seats left, so the girl sat on the father’s lap and slept—the ride lasted seven hours. They reached town in the afternoon, when the sun had already set. They took the city bus to the train station and arrived in time for the [REDACTED] train.
The conductor refused to let the whole family onto the train—only the father had a ticket, and the seats had all been sold. The father disappeared inside the train, returned with the superintendent in tow, and showed him his wife and daughter, and the superintendent allowed them to board. Money must have changed hands. The father was issued a seat, while mother and daughter shared a bunk bed, sleeping head to toe; luckily, they had the lower berth. In the morning, the father took them to the dining car—the family hadn’t eaten a crumb in twenty-four hours. The mother made the entire family wash up, though they had to share a single thin hand towel. Family discipline was reëstablished; that was her responsibility. They ate ceremoniously amid the clean tablecloths and paper napkins, watching their manners. They spent the day in their bunk, then went back to the restaurant car for lunch. The parents spoke only when addressing the child. The girl didn’t leave her father’s side and dozed most of the time. Husband and wife avoided looking at each other.
Once the [REDACTED] was finally behind them, it became possible to buy food from farmers at the stations, and they could now eat at the little table by their bunk. The father bought some still-warm pies, pickled cucumbers, boiled potatoes, even a fish pie. This all went beautifully with hot, sweet tea. The girl kept babbling “Papa-Papa-Papa,” while the grownups talked only when absolutely necessary, even though they were crammed tightly together at the table. They’d been apart for so long, and the passenger from the upper bunk had joined them, as was his right. At the end of the third day, they reached their destination.
The father carried the child and a suitcase, the mother everything else. They got into a cab and drove through the beautiful dark streets of their city. It was drizzling. The streetlights were shining softly.
They entered the apartment quietly. The grandmother was sound asleep—she must have taken a sleeping pill, as had become her custom. The girl’s room was clean, as if she had left the day before: fresh sheets on the bed, her pajamas and her doll on the pillow. The grandmother, it was clear, had been waiting every day for her granddaughter to come back.
They didn’t bathe the sleeping child. The mother only wiped her feet and her bottom with a warm, wet towel and changed her into some comfortable clothes from the suitcase—her old pajamas were too small—and the girl quickly fell back to sleep, clutching her doll.
Mother and father went to bed, too.
No one knows exactly what happened to them—only that, six weeks later, the wife had an abortion, just in case, and a year later she gave birth to a baby girl. 

