
Fungus
By David Gilbert
The insurance check came in the mail. From Geico. With its big-eyed lizard mascot. A Cockney gecko. As though disaster should appeal to ironic children. There are no geckos in [REDACTED], [REDACTED]—or in East London, for that matter. Not their natural habitat. But there are geckos in South Carolina. Andrew remembered them. In the winter they would sneak indoors and hide near curtains, frozen like novelty rubber until roused, and then such speed. Of course the goal was to catch one, to hold it in your palms, a brief warm home, until boredom set in, after which you’d release it onto the porch. The crueller boys did worse. With tennis racquets. With windups into trees followed by whoops. Geckos lose their tails if captured endwise, probably their most famous trait. Autotomy is the term, Greek for “self-severing,” which Andrew had misread last week as “serving.” Self-serving? No, no, se-ver-ing, as in divide by cutting. Certainly an effective means of survival. To lose what has been caught. But why a gecko should come to represent an insurance company baffled him, beyond the obvious wordplay, which seemed weak even for advertising and was outdone only by the Aflac Duck.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
This phrase had dropped into Andrew’s head a few days earlier, while he was buying groceries. Restocking those things with an expiration date: the eggs and the milk and the yogurt and the fruit—more fruit than he and Willa could ever consume within the allotted time period. Decay seemed built into the transaction. But, as Andrew watched the cashier ring up the strawberries and the blueberries and the apples and the bananas, this phrase unfurled in his thoughts, beyond his thoughts, really, since he had no notion of darkness or dawn under those fluorescent lights, innocuous soft rock coming down from above, the cheerful young woman bagging the produce. It was more like an archeological fragment from a still buried dream. Dust-covered and frayed along the edges.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
The rhythm relaxed him. The repetition pleasing, the sentiment mysteriously loaded. And the glory of that em dash.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
Andrew e-mailed himself the line, At Whole Foods the subject.
The envelope from Geico lay unopened on the hall table for a month. Pretend forgotten. Like library books and bills, like the shirt he wore four days in a row. Right by the wooden bowl for house keys and loose change and lip balm and hair ties and other pocket sundries. A receipt that seemed too significant to abandon. But Andrew could borrow Ingrid and Ron’s car for only so long, so on Wednesday he finally deposited the check, and on Saturday he and Willa headed downtown, to Wentworth Subaru on Burnside. Maybe he should have got a sitter, as friends had suggested, but Willa had insisted beyond his capacity to say no.
“Can we get the car right away?” she asked from the back seat.
“Um, probably not right away,” Andrew said.
Willa frowned.
“Though I’m not sure. Maybe. I don’t know.”
And that was the truth. Andrew didn’t know. Sometimes he imagined himself temporarily mute, with a handmade sign hanging around his neck that read “I don’t know.” Index cards he could give to anyone who might ask him a question. All those people, well-intentioned, looking to help.
They drove down Skyline, across Cornell, through Forest Park. The International Harvester Scout was infused with the seventies of Andrew’s youth. The rounded edges. The removable hardtop. Even the green color seemed era-specific—post-psychedelic and pre-preppy, the same shade as the cannabis poster that had hung on his bedroom wall in [REDACTED]. As if Andrew were ever a real smoker of weed. Ingrid and Ron had restored the Scout to its original condition, right down to the tape player and the collection of cassettes. Those small plastic cases seemed elegant in retrospect. And personal. Like reliquaries. Today he was listening to Little Feat’s “Waiting for Columbus.” Andrew had forgotten how much he once liked this album, thanks to the musical tastes of his older brothers. Hearing those songs again, after all these years, hearing the particular order of those songs, their timeless flow, unlocked a vague yet uncanny sensation: knowing what was coming without really knowing what was coming. The instant recognition and confirmation, the sequence as rooted as DNA. Plus the memory of his older brothers, shirtless in the sun, Andrew watching them, imagining himself in this bright future.
Roll tape . . . roll tape . . . roll the tape.
In the rearview, Willa was having a silent conversation with herself.
“How you doing?” Andrew asked.
“We almost there?” she answered.
“Kind of,” he said.
“Like, how close?”
“Not entirely sure. Ten minutes?”
She returned to her private business.
Andrew was taking the roundabout way, which had turned into the only way. It took them through the trees of Forest Park—firs and hemlocks and cedars, alders and maples. An overabundance of green and a reminder of why they had moved to [REDACTED] and the Pacific Northwest. The verdure of the place, verdure his word, pronounced in a comically pretentious accent that had always spurred laughter from his wife. The ride through this urban wilderness helped Andrew with his composure, negotiation never his strength. He was the youngest of four boys, and so was always trying to catch up while his mother held him close. Sullivan’s Island. The beach. Andrew scared of being ditched. Appropriately, “Feats Don’t Fail Me Now” was playing as the Scout crossed the Willamette via the Burnside Bridge. The I-5 traffic below was moving well, the progression symbolizing some inscrutable order, car-space-space-car-space-car, as if there were language here, an almost understandable pattern of verse, where five months ago everything had gone red and wrong, the particular arrangement of stresses describing the sudden end of his wife and his older daughter, the abstract turning concrete and, vice versa, the concrete turning abstract.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
“O.K.,” Andrew said to Willa.
“Here?”
“Yup.”
Andrew hoped they would find parking easily—nothing tricky, no circling around, no deciphering of signs, just a clear and conspicuous spot he could pull into; otherwise, he might get flustered, and, once flustered, he might get overwhelmed, the hassle spilling into a larger panic, with Andrew then retreating home. Nowadays everything seemed to be a test. All errands done on a tightrope. But thankfully there was an opening in front of the dealership, with fifty minutes still on the meter. Always an eerie kind of boon, this ghostly time added to your clock. Another presence still warm. A shadow of a shadow.
Andrew put on another hour.
The dealership was brick and glass, a version of traditional modern that implied the late nineties of Andrew’s graduate-school years: inclusive and hopeful and almost glaringly inoffensive. Hootie and the Blowfish could have been the architects. The showroom smelled of institutional cleaner that masked all potential odor with extreme, almost toxic cleanliness. Desks lined the perimeter, a selection of cars posed in the middle, like college jocks.
“So we pick one of these?” Willa asked.
“In a way. Not necessarily these cars.”
“So what are these?”
“Example cars,” Andrew said.
“Can we pick the color?”
“Absolutely.”
“Any color?”
“Whatever color the car comes in.”
“Brown?” she asked.
Brown was Andrew’s favorite. From amber to coffee to tweed. Baseball mitts. Panelled libraries. Hazel eyes and chestnut hair and quick-to-tan skin. A short suède skirt. This color preference was controversial among the followers of pink and yellow, almost disqualifying because of poop, which only gave Andrew more enthusiasm for the shade. Firewood and bourbon. A cabin in the woods.
“Sure,” he said, “but it’ll be called something else. Like russet or hickory.”
“Cinnamon?”
Willa was reading a book about a horse named Cinnamon. “Exactly. Something like that.”
Andrew often wished that all of his conversations could be with six-year-olds.
Other people were browsing as well, most in intimate pairs, circling the various models. Some had their hands buried in pockets, perhaps fearing that their touch might imply a binding agreement. Others were bolder: opening and shutting doors, sitting behind the wheel, checking the storage capacity. Willa fell into this camp. Within minutes her hand prints were everywhere, and Andrew envisioned himself trailing her with a chamois cloth and returning things to their primal polish. Nothing to see here. And then a certain emptiness filled the space—or hollowed the space where the image had been, leaving behind a delayed silence. Recently he had found himself wading into Wikipedia, usually after waking up in the middle of the night, whereupon he would try to simulate a soothing conversation via hyperlink. Geico into Gecko into Autotomy into Regeneration into Morphallaxis into Hydra into Immortality into Clonal Colonies into Mycelium into Hypha into Robert Hartig into hopefully getting back to sleep before 6 a.m.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
“I like this one,” Willa said.
“The Crosstrek,” Andrew said.
“What does that mean?”
“Nothing, really. Just two words jammed together.”
“Cross and trek?”
“Uh-huh.”
“How about this?” Willa asked, touching another.
“Um, the Outback.”
“And this?”
“The Forester.”
Willa rushed to the next one, delighted by this naming of the cars.
“The Impreza,” Andrew said.
“Really?”
“Yeah.”
“What does that mean?”
“Nothing in English, as far as I know,” he said.
“Impreza?”


“Uh-huh.”
“It actually means ‘feat’ or ‘achievement’ in Italian, as in impressive,” said a salesman in a dark-blue fleece vest, “Wentworth Subaru” emblazoned across the breast. He was standing behind them, inconspicuous yet committed, as though wearing suburban camouflage. He seemed a veteran of something difficult, his sensitivities hard-earned.
“Impreza,” Willa said in a dubious tone.
“Hey, I don’t name them,” the man said.
“Im-pre-za,” Willa repeated.
“It’s one of our more popular models,” the man said.
And here it was. The moment. The negotiation before the negotiation, their small talk hardening into chrome and steel. Andrew braced himself for the impact of buying and selling, of putting cold, hard shape to time. Sweat started to gather along his hairline. A drop coasting down his spine. How easily he could turn into water, drown in his own insecurities.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
Willa glanced at Andrew and then back at the man. “We need to buy a car,” she said.
“I figured as much.”
“So these all yours?” she asked, gesturing broadly.
“In a way,” the man said. “All our different models. All a bit different. Or very different.”
“Different?”
“Depending on what you want.”
“What about color?”
“They come in a variety of colors.”
“Not just these colors?”
“Not just these colors.”
The man turned to Andrew as though they were co-conspirators in this charming plot. He introduced himself—Brian something—which forced the other side of the exchange, Willa giving her name with a wave. Now they were three: Andrew and Willa and Brian. Brian was in his late fifties, early sixties. Car salesman seemed a second career; Andrew imagined him once working outdoors. Comfortable in the elements. Capable. This Brian probably had grown children who could flee on their own in case of emergency—maybe when the Cascadia subduction zone finally fulfills its predicted catastrophe. Andrew wished he had never read that article. But no. Everyone in [REDACTED] had talked about the Really Big One, with its estimates of local apocalypse. Earthquake and tsunami. Liquefaction and inundation. All the horror running just below their feet. In ten years? In fifty years? The terminal math of those odds and percentages. How do you know when to run? And this was two years ago, when the world seemed more solid.
“We need four-wheel drive,” Andrew said.
“Sure, what with the winter we had,” Brian said.
Andrew nodded.
“Well, all these vehicles are all-wheel drive. Which is almost better.”
There was further talk about the Subaru’s symmetrical system, which was designed to optimize both traction and balance, the power routed to all four wheels, insuring outstanding grip in rough terrain and poor weather. And then a quick explanation of the merits of the boxer engine: the fuel mileage, the surprising power. As Brian talked, Andrew feigned paying attention, like so much of his listening nowadays. Words seemed cored of meaning. He should probably have brought along a friend. Maybe Ingrid or Ron. Someone to guide him through this exchange. Focus him. Do more than just nod and nod again.
But Willa was engaged. “We need a good car,” she said.
“You’ve come to the right place.”
“A really good car.”
“O.K.,” the man said, giving a single sharp wink.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
They walked down Ankeny Street, toward the main Wentworth Subaru lot. As they walked, Brian made it clear that these were just the vehicles that were in stock—always vehicles, Andrew noted, never cars—and he could always get other vehicles from other dealers within the I-5 corridor. It was sunny and warm, warmer than usual, though yesterday had begun with frost and tomorrow’s forecast called for freezing rain. The air itself seemed exhausted by these swings. Brian carried a briefcase, which gave him a covert vibe. Halfway there, Andrew reached for Willa’s hand and squeezed a sort of Morse code—long, short, short, long—which had no meaning but comforted him. Construction was happening all over this part of [REDACTED], the industrial becoming more residential by the month. Cranes and concrete mixers. Random blasts from air horns. A new neighborhood was being dragged up by the hair.
“So here we are,” Brian said.
The lot was surrounded by mature maple trees and a chain-link fence. Hard-hatted men lingered along the shaded curb, either on break from work or waiting around for work, while above them multiple pairs of sneakers dangled from electrical wires, their presence more ominous than mischievous. Brian unlocked the gate. Inside, cars were parked end to end in three rows. Bright and somewhat confectionary, as though born from Subaru-size Pez dispensers.
“Again,” Brian said, somewhat defensively, “this isn’t our entire inventory.”
Andrew understood that this was pretty unusual, the way he and Willa were picking their car. Or vehicle. The usual way was to research the different makes and models within the determined affordable range and visit various dealerships and go on test drives and, once decided, discuss options and add-ons and special features and, finally, negotiate the price. A systematic, logical approach, as his wife would have preached. Like with the Prius, which had been their first new car thanks to a small inheritance. But how often does a person let his six-year-old decide all on her own?
Andrew turned to Willa. “O.K.,” he said, “go have a look.”
Willa released his hand and stepped forward. She surveyed the scene, shielding her eyes from the midday sun. She seemed to represent some royal spirit, a princess addressing her armored knights. She started forward, down one of the rows, laying her palm on every car she passed, pausing for a moment, channelling whatever she was channelling. Andrew and Brian followed, like obliging consorts.
A dark-blue Outback.
A dark-blue Outback.
A dark-blue Outback.
A red Outback.
A light-green Crosstrek.
A dark-gray Crosstrek.
Andrew himself was less equipped for such matters of destiny. Everything behind him still seemed too close. Yesterday. Last week. Months ago. Hydroplaning to sledding to reindeer to Santa Claus to Wodan to the Wild Hunt to what should we eat for dinner and what should we do this summer. But Willa had already turned the past into a story that she often told with sad clarity, Andrew confirming the details. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Her saving grace was this strong and strange imagination. Even Brian seemed seduced by the force of her vision, his free hand brushing the vehicles she had spurned, half in consolation, half in wonder at what they might have lacked.
A white Outback.
A silver Impreza.
A dark-blue Impreza.
A bronze Forester—Willa stopped with abrupt significance, Andrew and Brian stopping a few paces behind. She reached over and placed her other palm on the hood and tilted her face toward the sun. Like in a movie. One of those scenes of mystical transmission, otherworldly and psychic. Sure, Andrew thought, a type of performance, but who could argue with the animating effect? My dramatic daughter. Willa slid her hands forward until her chest and arms were sprawled over the hood, her cheek resting against the metal, as though she were communicating with a living, breathing thing, hearing its wild-stallion heart.

Once, many years ago, when Andrew was flying home from [REDACTED], his last Christmas before getting married, this boy in the middle seat had turned to him as the plane taxied toward the runway and said, “We’re going to crash, you know.” And right then Andrew had believed him, believed this towheaded reaper, who, being young and innocent, seemed more in tune with broader lethal currents. Andrew thought about causing a scene. Stopping the plane. Choosing embarrassment over extinction. Because how stupid to die when you knew you were going to die. But of course he did nothing and instead remained silent in his seat as the ground accelerated into suspicious air. For five hours he dissected every bump, every alien sound, and when the plane finally landed he turned to the boy and said, “Well, buddy, guess you were wrong there.” And the boy looked at Andrew as though he were the biggest dummy on the plane, maybe the biggest dummy on the planet, the notion of reasonable adulthood having perished on the ground in [REDACTED]. It was a story he often told. The boy-on-the-airplane story. He doubted that he would tell this story. Willa and the Subaru. Though he was sure Brian would.
“This one,” Willa said, straightening.
“Yeah?”
“Yeah.”
Brian nodded with evident satisfaction, having already invested himself in this peculiar father-daughter routine. He placed the briefcase on the nearby dark-blue Impreza and snapped open its latches, revealing keys arranged in rough correspondence with the vehicles on the lot. After a few passes through the color-coded fobs, Brian located the correct one. A beep and the doors unlocked.
“O.K., so this is the Forester Touring,” he said, pleased to be selling.
Andrew slipped into the driver’s seat, Willa into the passenger’s.
She looked so small up front, small and solemn. Like a miniature woman with eccentric tastes.
“I like this,” she said.
“The interior is a saddle-brown leather, which is probably our nicest interior in terms of interior options.” The repetition of the word “interior” pleased Andrew, the way Brian stressed every syllable, flattening the peak into a wind-bitten butte—where the shale slides dangerously and the back wheels hang almost over the edge, as the poet Roethke might have advertised, Roethke whom Andrew adored, Roethke who had died north of here, on Bainbridge Island, after suffering a heart attack while swimming in a friend’s pool. Drowning was the secondary mortal effect. Like poetry itself, Andrew thought. Afterward, as expiation, the pool was filled in and transformed into a Zen garden, now part of the Bloedel Reserve. Andrew had visited the place when he was in graduate school and this genre of pilgrimage had seemed meaningful. He had stood over the damp grave and paraphrased his own elegy against the sides of wet stones, the moss wound with last light.
“And the Forester,” Brian continued, “comes standard with a rear-vision camera and reverse automatic braking, so safety is front and center. And G.P.S., of course. And premium audio, which is smartphone-ready. Blind-spot detection on the rearview mirrors. Heated seats for cold mornings, when the wind and the rain make you desperate for relief.” One thought of Roethke and Roethke seemed everywhere. “Same with the steering wheel,” Brian said.
Willa looked at the steering wheel, Andrew’s hands on the steering wheel.
Andrew flinched from the pretend burn, shook his hands pretend cool.
In four years this would be considered corny, but right now Willa grinned at the wonder of being fooled by Dad.
“It’s a keyless ignition system. You familiar with those?” Brian asked.
Andrew nodded. The Prius had had the same. He pressed on the brake and reached forward, pausing near the Start/Stop button, pausing as though the moment were inherently loaded, before finally finishing this most minor of beginnings. 
The car sparked to life.
“It has a hundred-and-seventy-horsepower 2.5-litre four-cylinder boxer engine,” Brian said.
As if the day were now somehow on fire.
A week later, Andrew and Willa went back to Wentworth Subaru to pick up their new car. But first they dropped by Ingrid and Ron’s house, in Riverwood. Ingrid offered them breakfast—she had pancake batter ready to go—though breakfast was already three hours old for Andrew and Willa. Well, then, some coffee. It was another warm day, the third warm day in a row, which turned Andrew’s friends and acquaintances into great talkers of spring, these enthusiasms a safe expression of hope. Like Ingrid, with her arms-wide declamation on the glories of the season. She was wearing a white T-shirt and bluejeans, green clogs, and had been grading papers outside on the deck while Ron gardened below. Ron and Ingrid were more than twenty years older than Andrew, their children already done with college. As a couple, they had always conjured up what life ahead might look like. The foggy landscape in the distance. Temperate and sloped. Ideal terrain for a vineyard, as Andrew once joked with his wife after a night of drinking too much wine with them.
“So a new car,” Ingrid said.
“Yep,” Andrew said.
“That’ll be nice.”
“I’ll miss the Scout.”
“Oh, the Scout is very lovable,” Ingrid said.
She went over to Willa with a hairbrush in hand, which she waggled for permission’s sake. Willa relented, though her shoulders hunched, her face tensing through the initial strokes. Andrew thought he did a decent job on the grooming front but soon recognized Ingrid’s native skills, her other hand moving in conjunction with the brush, as if polishing brass.
“You want a braid?”
Willa nodded.
“Getting nice and long,” Ingrid said.
“I never want to cut it again.”
“I was once one of those creatures,” Ingrid said.
Ron came in from outside. “How about this day,” he said.
“How about this day,” Ingrid confirmed.
Ron grabbed a leftover piece of bacon from the kitchen table. “Hey, I was thinking of cooking some elk sausage and maybe a few burgers if you guys care to join us for dinner. Plenty of food. Maybe get the Kims over with their kids. The Pellicheks, too.”
“Ooh, great idea,” Ingrid said.
Their gentle scheming, probably concocted that morning, in bed.
Andrew looked at Willa, unsure which of them had permission to decide such things, their individual needs so intertwined—or knotted, as Andrew thought, when he woke up in the middle of the night and saw her sleeping by his side, this small expectant bump under the comforter. Willa into Wilhelmina into Wilhelmina Feemster Jashemski into Garden Archeology into Oplontis into Villa Poppaea into Peristyle into Willa opening her eyes, blinking Andrew back into being. She seemed to know better. Helping him notice what he should have noticed. The coming rain. The need for more milk. The refrigerator door left open. But right now she was absorbed with Ingrid and the careful gathering and twisting of her hair.
“Can we think about it?” Andrew asked.
“For sure,” Ron said. “I’ll invite the Kims and Pellicheks regardless.”
“No pressure,” Ingrid promised. “Seriously.”
How quickly people apologized for asking anything of them.
It was like a superpower.
From Riverwood they drove north on OR-43, Ingrid in the passenger seat, since Andrew wanted a final turn with the Scout. Her window was down, her elbow cresting the edge. She resembled a pleased hitchhiker, the universe open to her suggestion. The music helped as well: Yes, “Yessongs,” “I’ve Seen All Good People.”
“I love the old-school collection of tapes,” Andrew said.
“Oh, that’s Ron’s doing,” she said.
“The whole live-album thing, it’s brilliant.”
“What’s that?”
“They’re all live albums,” Andrew said.
Ingrid inspected the cassettes.
“And live albums,” he said, “from the era when live albums were a big deal. The double live album. Or, in this case, the monster triple live.” Often, when Andrew got talking, he seemed on the verge of drafting an obsessive social-media post.
“I never noticed that,” Ingrid said, running her finger across the plastic rows—“Live Rust,” “Before the Flood,” “The Song Remains the Same,” “Rock ’n’ Roll Animal”—as though hunting for her husband through those small mortarless gaps.
From the stereo:
 
Diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit didda
 
Andrew glanced over at Ingrid. He had always loved this part of the song and was curious whether she was awake to the coming crescendo. She must have been beyond beautiful when she was younger. That round face and those green-blue eyes, full lips pleasantly chapped, slightly oversized teeth like mischievous killers of carrots. When she smiled, she suggested the memory of herself half-naked in a field somewhere. Andrew told her how he had bought “Yessongs” only because of the album’s artwork. “I thought those trippy Roger Dean landscapes were the coolest thing. My brothers thought the music was crap.”
“Well, my brothers liked Kraftwerk,” she said.
“Oh, man, Kraftwerk.”
“You know them?”
“For sure. ‘Autobahn’ was a personal favorite.”
“That’s some deep knowledge.”
“Yeah, I was already a pretentious freak at twelve.”
 
’Cause it’s time, it’s time in time with your time
And its news is captured
For the queen to use!
 
Andrew lifted his chin in anticipation of the churchlike burst of Hammond organ—Rick Wakeman and his array of keyboards—and then power nodded to the epic crash from Alan White’s cymbals. Always his favorite part, which his brothers somehow found boring. And maybe Andrew was hoping Ingrid might be amused by this display of enthusiasm. But she was staring out the window.
 
Diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit diddit didda
 
He checked the rearview mirror: Willa calmly reading a book, Willa always reading a book, pulled from the shelves of secondhand books: ponies to fairies to boy detectives to best friends to pioneer families to problematic sisters, all heading toward the terminus of wizards and the bookmark where her older sister had ceased.
“I watched ‘L’Avventura’ last night,” Andrew told Ingrid, feeling an almost desperate need for more conversation. “Or I watched almost half of ‘L’Avventura’ before falling asleep.”
“I love that movie,” Ingrid said.
“Yeah, I hadn’t seen it in a while. But I’d had a few beers, enough so I could watch something without feeling guilty, you know, about watching something. Like a pass from doing anything serious.”
“ ‘L’Avventura’ is not exactly light viewing,” Ingrid said.
“Yeah, well—”
“Ron and I watched a hockey game last night—that’s how drunk we were.”
“But I fell asleep while they were still on that island. And that’s not even halfway through.”
“My God, Monica Vitti,” Ingrid said. 
“They’re on that island longer than I remembered.”
“It’s not exactly an action-packed movie,” Ingrid said.
“I know. Maybe it was a mistake. I was just curious.”
Andrew turned onto Barbur Boulevard, going toward the Ross Island Bridge.
“But I don’t remember how it ends. Like, I have a hazy—”
“We’re going to Burnside, right?” Ingrid asked, surprised by this unexpected direction.
“Yeah, just up M.L.K. Boulevard.”
“Right, yeah, O.K.” Ingrid resettled into her seat, as though finding herself in a church pew.
“Just as fast this way,” Andrew said.
“Right, got it, sorry.”
Andrew checked the rearview mirror again.
Willa was holding her book like a bucket she was emptying over her head.
“All Good People” still playing, “All Good People” again and again.
In a cappella and with clapping.
Suddenly the song did seem boring, and sentimental, too.
A few straggling screams and whistles from the audience.
In the darkness before the dawn—the dawn.
“No real difference, timewise,” Andrew said to Ingrid, gripping the steering wheel.
“I’m sure,” she said.
They pulled in front of the dealership. Once Willa was free from the car seat, the car seat needed to be freed from the Scout. This was no small task, though it was certainly easier than the coming installation in the new car, which Andrew dreaded—anchoring those straps, convinced that he was doing it wrong, the fit too loose, the consequence possibly horrific. In contrast, the release was almost enjoyable. Underneath lingered the forensic evidence of Willa’s snack life.
“Don’t worry about that,” Ingrid said, as Andrew started sweeping the crumbs clear.
The orange dust of cheddar Goldfish. Potato chips and M&M’s and cookies.
He had been letting her eat whatever she wanted.
But Andrew wanted to leave no trace of his impact on the world, no suggestion of his causing any trouble to anyone. When leaving a hotel room, he would make the bed and hang up the towels and feel bad about the trash in the wastebasket. But after a few more sweeps he gave up on the crumbs.
“Sorry,” he said.
“You want me to stick around?” Ingrid asked.
“I think we’re probably good from here.”
Andrew picked up the car seat with one hand, took Willa’s hand with the other.
“Well, then, O.K.,” Ingrid said.
Andrew smiled—posing, he thought, as he often did for women, starting with his mother. Looking for praise and approbation. But Ingrid was different. Ingrid obviously loved him without the implied indenture, as she loved all her friends, a blessed bunch who could do no wrong because she herself had deemed them just right. Andrew often wondered if some silence between them might lead to a revelation, a confirmation, an invitation, those forming nouns of action. He sometimes tried to catch her eye and keep the contact longer than was comfortable, communicate unspeakable possibilities. Like now. With his feel-sorry-for-me face. The sad sack’s seduction. And maybe she understood his less-than-innocent intent without ever thinking him bad, both humoring and forgiving him.
Andrew had to sign various receipts, Brian gently attempting to upsell him on a tire plan and extra roadside assistance, after which they went over the more subtle features of the Forester. The entire process took longer than expected, and by the end Brian seemed an actual friend, Andrew having shared his insecurities about Bluetooth setup and the sleek navigation and media systems, his desire for old-school knobs and buttons. Brian laughed easily, though his jovialness seemed laced with humiliation, as if he were still in doubt about his second career choice. But Andrew was thankful when he offered to install the car seat.
Willa climbed aboard.
Brian did the honors of strapping her in.
“So you happy with your new car?” he asked.
“Huh?”
“With the car, you happy?”
Willa made a barely interested show of looking around. “Sure,” she said.
Andrew could tell that Brian wanted more, wanted the same performance as last week, Willa spreading her arms and gracing this vehicle with her presence. But Willa had already forgotten. The car was simply a car, and Brian was simply the man who had sold them the car. Which Andrew regretted. The ease with which people receded from view. Like buying coffee and exchanging pleasantries with a person waiting in line and how this could make Andrew feel human for the rest of the day, the fact that people were nice and decent and maybe he was nice and decent and maybe there was a nice and decent future ahead—all these nothing moments growing in number, tenuous yet taking shape around the void, the impression of life gradually becoming life.
Brian asked for, and then received, a high five from Willa.
“Awesome,” he said.
He shook hands with Andrew.
“Enjoy the car, and call me if any questions come up.”
“Thanks, and will do.”
They drove toward home, though the day was still early and Andrew had nothing planned—no playdates, no sense of how the afternoon might shift into evening and then into bed. But he knew that he would pass on Ron and Ingrid’s dinner invitation. Too much sideways sympathy. Andrew and Willa like endangered creatures. Like polar bears and ice. And, even worse, the undeniable satisfaction of the attention, the weighted proximities, which pushed emotion into the realm of the representational: ladies and gentlemen, the widower and his surviving daughter. No, instead Andrew would make pasta with butter, and he would think, I need to do this better. Already he hoped he might sleep through the night rather than wake after three hours and lie there trying to convince himself that more sleep would come, stubborn until sunrise.
The Subaru seemed childish compared with the Scout, the engine going vroom vroom vroom. Everything about it suggested a mistake. The particular fit of the seat. The touch-screen control panel. The challenge of finding KOPB on the virtual FM dial. And since there was no moderating influence, no one to ease his mind and bask in the newfangled pleasures, his typical poor judgment held sway.
On the radio, “This American Life.” A woman was talking about finding an ancient roll of undeveloped film.
In the back seat, Willa was picking her nose.
As they drove along Burnside, skirting Washington Park, Andrew considered going to the zoo, or the children’s museum, places they had visited multiple times, but before he could settle on something—maybe the Japanese garden—they had passed the exit and the possibility seemed irretrievably lost. Plus the crowds. The parking. The tediousness of those excursions, the melodramatic subtexts. He imagined going home and watching the rest of “L’Avventura” with Willa, describing to her the oblique precision of the movie, the cinematic use of space, the poetry of elision. Laughable and perfectly [REDACTED]. Though sometimes he thought that he should do more of this, should curate a higher level of existence. Like those fathers who created perfect athletes. He could craft a child from bits of the Criterion Collection and Artforum and The New York Review of Books. Become one of those parents who stage-manage their children’s precociousness. R-rated movies. Indecent gallery shows. Inappropriate novels. Turn them into cultural contemporaries. But those parents often seemed screwed up in some way, even though their children were possibly more interesting. Or maybe just more screwed up themselves. Perhaps it was better to keep them innocent for as long as possible, if “innocent” was the right word. Untainted? Unadulterated? All this mental back and forth lasted only a few seconds. It was like being pushed into familiar water, Andrew instantly soaked. In the end, he decided “L’Avventura” could wait.
“How about we go for a hike or something?” Andrew suggested to the back seat.
They were just getting onto Skyline.
“Like, now?” Willa asked.
“Yeah, like something in Forest Park.”
“If you want.”
“It’s a nice day,” Andrew said.
Silence.
“Nothing long. Just for an hour.”
More silence.
“It’ll be fun,” Andrew promised, practically begging for her enthusiasm.
“O.K.,” she said.
He parked near the trailhead for the Wildwood-Newton loop, an easy mile-long hike they had done before. All four of them. About a year ago. In late June. A pleasant summer walk, and afterward they went to the Skyline Restaurant and had burgers and shakes. Andrew’s brilliant idea, as he had self-touted throughout the meal. Maybe he and Willa could do the same today. He wondered if she would remember, or if he was now responsible for her memories and should remind her. The banana slugs along the path. The banana splits for dessert in their honor. The discussion about detritivores, which process waste material into soil by way of their own humus-like waste material. The use of the term “coprophagy” and the joking about the cycle of poop. The proclamation about this being a perfect day for banana splits and banana slugs. The hugging of trees and the foraging for mushrooms. All these details, slowly shrinking down to the size of a jar.
They started walking.
Willa picked up a stick, which she waved around, either as baton or as foil.
The trail was a well-established meander through the woods, cultivated by decades of footsteps. Around them there seemed to be an infinite sampling of vegetation: ferns and clover and scrub and bracken giving way to maples and firs and oaks and hemlocks covered in lichen and moss. The sun cut through the canopy as though shining through shattered stained glass, portraying the story of the world before man and woman became involved. Green on green on green on green, all of this chlorophyll inducing a bleary anesthetic—or Andrew thought so. But he tended to pause and scribble this sort of nonsense in his head.
Willa was farther up the trail, bounding along, swinging that stick.
As if she were alone and on an adventure, the resourceful orphan, and Andrew was the tracking shot. The distance between them grew, and he imagined the world behind her forgotten. All she had to worry about was surviving this wilderness, minute by minute. Bushwhacking where need be. Seeking shelter when darkness turned solid and the inevitable creatures appeared along the edges. Bears and wolves. Fantastic beasts. Perhaps a friendly dog equally far afield. The woods, though pristine, seemed broken, fallen and splintered, like the site of mystical battles, thousand-year wars. That Douglas fir in the near middle distance. Massive. Two hundred feet tall. Which Willa scurried toward, as if she were being pursued and needed cover. Did she recognize the gracefulness of her flight, the confident leaping through the brush, the lightness of her touch? She was all the beauty the world needed. The trunk was fissured at the base, creating a seam wide enough to slip into—in other words, an absolutely perfect hiding place. Willa knew that trees could communicate, could help one another by sending nutrients through the soil. She knew this without really knowing how or why. Fungi into mycelium into hyphae into mycorrhizal networks into positive-feedback loops into this tree still standing despite the terrible damage. Willa curled up inside the dusky hollow. She was always excellent at squirrelling herself away. Behind couches. In linen closets. The ground beneath her was soft and suggestive of sleep. People had carved their names on the inside. Doug. Louise. Peter hearts Mickey. Sibyl. Teen-agers, probably. Older kids. Willa dug her fingers into the warm dirt: a rich brown-black flecked with white. She brought her fingers to her nose. The odor had a pleasant tucked-away mustiness. Like a secret in the basement. A family relic found. Curious, she licked one finger—smoky—then another—chalky—then reached down for a larger pinch, which she dropped onto her tongue, sucking the fizz against her soft palate. It tasted biological, intimate, her saliva like rain. The resulting mud possessed an almost chocolate tang. She ate more, pleased with the oddness of this endeavor, comforted by the acceptable flavor. Larger pinchfuls this time. Creating a new, undiscovered land in her stomach. A small hill breathing inside her. Growing bigger. Then she heard her name, mingling with the back and forth of the wrens. Willa! Hey, Willa! Where are you, Willa? A frantic echo in the echoing wood. The ground seemed to tremble, the day draining of color and light. Willa peered from the opening, her mouth and chin streaked blackish brown. Instead of seeing the lord of nature she saw Andrew, red-faced and near weeping, searching the woods for a pregnant tree. 

