

The Sightseers
By David Gilbert
While Paulette was getting ready upstairs, Robert took charge of dinner, which entailed pouring the sparkling water and calling for the children, after which Kiki appeared with the halibut and [REDACTED] sprouts, spinach salad on the side.
“Looks delicious,” Robert said, placing his phone face down on the table and then interlacing his fingers, as though this public denial of electronics were commensurate with saying grace. “Right, guys?”
“Thank you, Kiki,” Lana said.
“Thanks, Kiki,” Friedrich said.
“Yes, thanks,” Robert concluded with a warm, conspiratorial smile. Kiki whom he paid on the books. Kiki from [REDACTED]. My goodness, the calm essence of those people. The work ethic. Plus she happened to be an excellent cook, almost better than Chef Gary.
“Where are you going tonight?” Lana asked.
“The Harrisons’,” Robert said.
“Will Flip be there?”
“I suppose so.”
Lana disappeared into her shoulders, her body nowadays like an overcoat, the wind and the rain kicking up from across the table. The turmoils of seventh grade. Over the past year she had bulked up; perfectly natural, the pediatrician had told Robert and Paulette, rocket fuel for the coming launch into puberty, though, just in case, Paulette had eliminated bread and dairy from her diet, and processed sugar, of course. Robert’s side of the family had a history of weight issues, as Paulette often mentioned. His mother and younger brother. Those round nephews. Thank God they no longer marched to northeast [REDACTED] for Thanksgiving, no longer had to listen to that nonsense about this being everyone’s favorite meal: turkey with sausage and stuffing, the two varieties of canned cranberry, the sweet potatoes topped with marshmallows, the heedless, almost irresponsible piling up of dish upon dish—the turnips, the peas, the butter-infused Pepperidge Farm dinner rolls—as if they were composing self-portraits in food. Watching them eat seemed vaguely cannibalistic. Robert, for his part, was in optimal shape, training five times a week with a former Navy seal and competing in marathons and triathlons. Next year he planned to tackle the Ironman in [REDACTED].
“I thought we were having salmon tonight,” Friedrich said.
“Yeah?”
“Pretty sure.”
Robert refrained from checking his phone and called in Kiki, who confirmed the switch. The halibut was fresher than the salmon, or so the man at the fish counter had told her. This unsanctioned change of proteins went against the purpose of the posted weekly menu, which was to lower daily stress by preparing the children for their dinners ahead—no surprises, no potential conflicts with lunch—and while Robert himself never trusted anyone who pushed product, whether stocks or warranties or halibut, he decided to let the matter pass without correction. “Oh, O.K.,” he said to Kiki.
“Does that mean the next time we have halibut we’ll have salmon?” Friedrich asked.
Robert turned to Kiki.
“I guess so,” Kiki said.
“Yes,” Robert declared, “salmon for halibut, halibut for salmon.”
Lana hunched her shoulders even higher.
“An excellent suggestion,” Robert told Friedrich.
“Sure, no problem,” Friedrich said, unmoved by the fatherly approbation.
But Robert was heartened. “The old switcheroo. Genius.” He got up from the table and went over to the floor-to-ceiling windows. The shadow of their building, new and narrow and tall, was tilting across the southern end of [REDACTED]. Like a slow-motion salute from above. You have achieved great success, good American. The effect always stirred Robert, and he tried to identify his specific tranche of shade, as though he might glimpse himself standing in the monolithic darkness, eighty-three floors up. See his own small hand waving. He turned back around and faced his children, his dear children—my dear children, he thought. “I used to hate [REDACTED] sprouts,” he told them. The cue was obvious since Lana was warily stabbing at a green bud, but the tone was unexpected, almost contrived, as though he were reading words written inside his head. “Hated them with a passion. It was pure torture. Almost to the point of actual weeping. And Gram, she knew I did, yet every couple of weeks, there they were again, [REDACTED] sprouts—Bobby sprouts, she called them. Bobby sprouts,” he repeated, impersonating his mother’s witchy voice. “She steamed them. All mushy and bitter. Just awful. Then came Harvard and I was done with [REDACTED] sprouts, which was one of the supreme pleasures of being an adult, never having to eat [REDACTED] sprouts again. Hallelujah. So I went twenty years free of those”—he paused for maximum profane effect—“fuckers until this dinner party, a fancy one, and there they were, right under my nose. I was sitting by the host, so I had no choice. I had to eat them. To be polite. And I was scared. Literally sweating. But I mustered up the courage and had a bite. They were halved and caramelized and delicious. It was my road-to-Damascus moment—you know that story? How Saul becomes Paul, one of the apostles, how he goes blind seeing the light of God and converts? No? Nothing? Oh well. Just means it was a revelation. These are [REDACTED] sprouts?! These things here?! And I wondered, had Gram been doing them wrong all those years, or had I finally grown up, or had there been a fundamental shift in the preparation of [REDACTED] sprouts?”
Lana and Friedrich looked at Robert as though he were an embedded commercial in one of their on-demand shows, their eyes trying to click thirty seconds ahead.
“Anyway,” Robert said, uncertain of the point himself.
Lana offered him a [REDACTED] sprout.
Robert grinned. “Very funny.”
“What?”
“Yeah, yeah,” Robert said. “Maybe tomorrow night, I’ll tell you my complicated history with cauliflower.”
“That’s not on the menu,” Friedrich said.
“I’m kidding.”
Before Robert could change course and bring up their weekend, with the diver-certification class and the background lecture on the wreck of the Tecumseh from Professor Miller, Friedrich wiped his mouth and asked about the Herons, specifically what was going on. Seemed their cams were down. Or not down but just streaming their hotel room—the Ron cam, the Lisa cam, the Stan cam, the Maggie cam, all four cams staring at the ceiling of the DoubleTree. “Almost creepy,” Friedrich said.
Robert performed mild surprise. “Yeah?”
“You haven’t been watching?”
“Not really,” he lied.
“They should’ve gone to Disney World,” Lana half-whispered, “like the Shacklers.”
“Yeah, that looked fun,” Friedrich said.
“Wish we would go there,” Lana said.
“What was the name of that ride?” Robert asked, pleased by the memory of the Shacklers and their four-day vacation in Disney World, which Robert and his family had sponsored with their initial foray into funded tourism.
“Splash Mountain,” Friedrich said.
Lana brightened. “I’d like to see little Maggie Heron on one of those rides.”
“Well, little Maggie Heron might be dead or something,” Friedrich told her.
“Nobody’s dead,” Robert said, and though he was tempted to grab his phone and check the stream, he simply said, once again, this time with conviction, but casual conviction, “Nobody is dead.” But in reality Robert was concerned. The stream had presented a full and active morning for the Herons: a crack-of-dawn breakfast, a double-decker bus downtown, visits to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island and the 9/11 Memorial, another bus back to Times Square for a late lunch at the Brooklyn Diner. All of this was in keeping with their detailed itinerary, curated by Robert and Co. Some highlights: Stan and Maggie posing with Elmo on Forty-second Street, Elmo swindling Ron of twenty bucks; Ron and Lisa and Stan and Maggie standing in the wrong line for the ferry; Ron and Stan climbing to the crown of the Statue of Liberty, Ron sweating, Stan disgusted; Maggie at Ellis Island counting every exhaled breath over the course of a half hour until Ron begged her to please stop, sweetheart; Lisa getting teary thinking of her great-grandparents at the Immigration Museum while Ron focussed on a nearby woman, in particular her New World cleavage; Stan pretending to be an airplane in front of the 9/11 Memorial, Ron horrified and chasing after him, briefly resembling the second airplane; Ron and Lisa and Stan and Maggie waiting an hour for cheeseburgers and noodle kugel, Maggie and Stan panicking over their devices’ dwindling battery percentages, Ron staring into the ominously innocuous distance. After lunch, the family retreated to the DoubleTree for some rest. Their next activity—a carriage ride through [REDACTED]—had been scheduled for 4:00 p.m. followed by a 6:15 p.m. dinner at the Hard Rock Cafe and an 8:00 p.m. performance of “Wicked.” But according to their stream they were still in the hotel room, face up in their beds.
“I don’t think they’re breathing,” Friedrich said. 
“They’re fine.”
“They’ve haven’t moved in, like, four hours.”
“They’re fine.”
“I’m just saying.”
“Why’d they want to come to [REDACTED] anyway?” Lana muttered.
“Because it’s a great city,” Robert said.
“Whatever.”
“People dream of this.” Robert gestured to their view.
“Stupid.”
With the clack of high heels as overture, Paulette the symphony rushed in, her silk chiffon dress, finished in tiered ruffles, giving the impression that she was bustling through a pile of brightly colored leaves. As always, she seemed to be mid-task, her eyes rearranging great swaths of air, her hands fiddling with imaginary clasps. “We should go or we’ll be late,” she told Robert.
“I’ve been ready.”
“I know, I know, just play along.” Paulette turned to the children and their immediate needs, which were easier to cope with than the compounding fear of loss and loathing, of being unworthy of any reciprocating love. When they were babies, then toddlers, Paulette mothered without a second thought. But somewhere in their middle-school years the ineffable had been replaced by executive management and peer review, late childhood becoming a series of problems to be solved and then questioned afterward in bed. She was like a threatened C.F.O. Robert, for his part, just wished she could relax more, though he understood the problematic jujutsu of that statement and so never used that word; rather, he suggested more yoga, or a massage, or maybe a visit to Mustique. “Not too late tonight, all right?” Paulette told Friedrich and Lana. “We all have a big day tomorrow.” Paulette then summoned Kiki, who accidentally let Shawnie free from the confines of the kitchen. The dog was part chocolate Lab, part Great Dane, i.e., a Labradane, bred by some lunatic in southwest [REDACTED]. Imagine a retriever on stilts. 
Robert grabbed Shawnie’s collar before that crazy tail could do damage and dragged him back to the kitchen.
“O.K.,” Paulette said to Kiki, “they should be in bed by ten. No screens after eight-thirty unless they’re watching a movie made before 1990. No exceptions. And only in the living room, the two of them watching together.” Paulette turned back toward Friedrich and Lana. “And here’s the deal: if you’re reading a book, you can stay up until eleven. Maybe tackle some of ‘A Sorrow in Our Heart’ or ‘West Wind, Flood Tide.’ ”
Both children sighed.
Paulette aped their sighs in return, the neckline of her dress revealing the core of muscle that in a certain light could be read as skin and bones. “Love you,” she said, reflating. “Now damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead.” She went over and comically started to push Robert toward the entryway, Robert who had been ready ages ago, Robert who had already picked their housewarming bottle of wine, Robert who was sort of disappointed in her lack of attention vis-à-vis the unsanctioned halibut, Robert who muttered, “Aye, aye, Captain Farragut.”
“Rear Admiral,” Paulette corrected.
“That doesn’t sound nearly as good.”
“But that’s what he was. Drayton was the captain.”
Regardless of these things, Robert raised the bottle of Cros Parantoux as if he were charging into a night of good cheer.
As usual, drivers were double-parked around the building, an idling black moat, though Johnson had snagged the spot in front, Carlos the doorman hustling ahead to open the back door. This piece of service-oriented choreography reaffirmed the magic of [REDACTED], when the city seemed to bless your passage.
“You’re the best,” Robert said to Carlos, feeling the truth of the sentiment.
“Have a great evening.”
The door closed and Johnson turned and smiled at them. “Hello, my esteemed employers.”
“Johnson, my friend.” And he was a friend, Robert thought, good old Johnson, and his wife, Elma, and their impressive boys, Laurence at West Point and Freddy at Amherst, Robert paying their tuition, or paying the portion their scholarships didn’t cover. Johnson had once been a cop—all the best drivers had once been cops. They carried guns. Or could carry guns.
“So, the West Village?” Johnson asked.
“Yes, Charles Street.”
“Perry,” Paulette said, her eyes fixed on her phone.
“I thought Charles.”
“Nope, Perry.”
“Perry, then,” Robert said, these minor adjustments—Rear Admiral, Perry—puncturing his basic sense of well-being. He sank into the quilted leather of the back seat, the wood and hide bringing to mind a panelled library, the windshield its glowing fire. Robert closed his eyes and took a breath. Om Namah Shivaya, he mouthed in his head, as he’d been taught by Seligman, the firm’s shaman. He really should mention the halibut.
There were protests around midtown, so Johnson avoided Fifth by heading way west and then south, though in truth the traffic was horrible everywhere, this version of endless only five minutes shorter. Johnson was a confident driver, right down to his mustache, which reminded Robert of peak Burt Reynolds. “Smokey and the Bandit.” “The Cannonball Run.” Talk about the epitome of a man. Robert and his friends in Susquehanna had often reënacted those scenes on red Raleigh bicycles, dreaming of eagle-emblazoned Trans Ams. Not that Robert ever brought this likeness up with Johnson. Some things should remain unnoted. Because, otherwise, Johnson was chubby and chinless, the skin around his nose and ears red and flaky.
“What is going on with the Herons?” Paulette asked.
“Huh?”
“You haven’t been watching?”
“Not really,” Robert said, like a serious man.
“Well, they’re not doing anything,” Paulette told him, raising her phone and showing him the Herons in landscape mode: Ron and Lisa and Stan and Maggie in quarter portions, each cam still streaming its own patch of ceiling. Paulette clicked on the Ron cam, the Lisa cam, the Stan cam, the Maggie cam. “All the same,” she said, “for hours now.”
Robert accessed the cams from his phone. He always wished he could see the things he missed or rewatch the things he enjoyed. Like the four of them riding in a taxi toward the Fifty-ninth Street Bridge—Robert had insisted on this particular entry into the city—the skyline opening its famous arms to them, those little-town blues melting away. The way Ron had muttered, “Will you look at that.” And Maggie mentioning something about the President, about his building in the grand scheme of buildings, the four of them searching for a telltale golden sign. Yes, Robert would have enjoyed watching those scenes again, but there was no recording, only live-streaming. “ ’Tis strange,” Robert said, the ’tis a surprise.
“They missed the carriage ride through the [REDACTED],” Paulette said.
“Uh-huh.”
“And their dinner reservation. I’m sure ‘Wicked’ is next.”
“Not ‘Wicked’!” Robert teased.
“Shut up, you know what I mean.” Paulette opened the mirror app on her phone and checked her makeup against her proposed makeup scheme, her fingers patting and petting the various highlights and shadings as though her skin might respond like a touch screen. A small blast of frustrated air blew through those Black Dahlia lips. Robert understood this as a bid for attention, thanks to their private couples retreat with Dr. Gottman and his wife, Julie. He turned and faced Paulette and told her how beautiful she looked, how her eyes sparkled and her hair was perfect tonight, how lucky he was to have her in his life even if she was presently annoyed by the limits of her concealer. Paulette acknowledged the affirmation by touching his knee, then she asked, “Should we complain?”
“About what?”
“The Herons. I’ve heard of stuff happening before. Like with the Burkes.”
The Burkes had come across a bout of unexpected lovemaking, which was typical of the Burkes, to have that kind of luck. Their particular mom and dad were in [REDACTED] and had woken up in the middle of the night and slipped on their cams and had quiet yet vigorous husband-and-wife sex while their children snoozed in the adjoining room. Maybe they were trying to give their sponsors some naughty fun. Maybe they had forgotten the time difference and assumed that the Burkes would be asleep instead of sitting down with friends for dinner, those friends being the Meachams, who had shared the story: how, in the middle of their twelve-course tasting menu at Aska, this couple from [REDACTED] had started screwing between the hay-grilled woodcock and the langoustine torched in chamomile and yarrow, the Burkes and the Meachams in absolute tears. Ah, [REDACTED]. So unusual things did happen, sometimes bordering on the disturbing. Like terrible screaming matches. Potential examples of certifiable abuse. Miscellaneous bad behavior. But for the most part the biggest sin was the old sin of being ugly Americans.
“Do you think they’re dead?” Paulette asked.
“Funny, Friedrich wondered the same thing.”
“Well . . .”
“Of course not,” Robert said. “They just got sick of streaming and put the cams on the beds and are doing whatever they’re doing, free from us. That’s all.”
“So you think they’re heading to ‘Wicked’?”
“I don’t know. I would think so.”
“Because I’d like to see that, the whole family at ‘Wicked.’ ”
“Christ, maybe we should just get tickets ourselves.”
“You know what I mean.”
“We can go to ‘Wicked,’ ” Robert said. “It’s allowed.”
“Stop.”
“I’m just saying I’ll be happy to go.”
“We are not seeing ‘Wicked.’ ”
“But we could.”
“I know, I know.” As Paulette said this, she was shaking her head, which Robert refrained from mentioning, despite Dr. Gottman’s admonitions about the perils of unconscious undercutting. “It’s just we’re paying all this money so they can have a nice trip to [REDACTED], and they’re not keeping up their end of the deal, which is against the terms and conditions, I assume. We should complain. Otherwise we’re just being our passive-complicit selves. Right? There must be a number we can call. Suppose we were witnessing a crime, like a murder, or an actual emergency, and they were in terrible trouble—what would we do then?”
“I can check the site.”
“Remember the Shacklers, how grateful they were for everything?”
“The Shacklers were excellent,” Robert agreed.
“They practically took us on their adventure.”
While Johnson was skirting the madness of Times Square, Robert could still feel the proximate thrill of those blasting lights. This was the [REDACTED] that had existed as a part of his rural imagination, before he graduated from Harvard and moved to [REDACTED]. It was a moment in time that was both embarrassing and uplifting, like most of his twenties, ensconced within the familiar parameters of middle-class striving. Except Robert had known better. His future success played like an amusing secret across his face. As though he were walking with “Enter Sandman” in his headphones while everyone else was listening to NPR.
The car turned on Twenty-third Street and then continued south on Seventh. They approached Robert’s first proper apartment: an unloftlike loft across the street from the old Barneys department store, where he had been introduced to clothes on a whole new level. The strutting delight of that place, even when he was browsing alone, invisible women hanging on his arm. He had often paid in cash just so he could peel the bills from his roll of hundreds. Robert still had a few suits from those days, suits he never wore, yet which retained their spark of joy.
“My old haunts,” he said.
“Yeah, I know,” Paulette answered.
Robert was curious what Dr. Gottman might say about that reply.
Paulette herself was native to this terrain, [REDACTED] her childhood home, so she treated the local geography with a certain amount of coolness; change for her was more a matter of replacement, nostalgia a series of trends circulating the same theme of money. There was a cynical naïveté to her attitude. Robert still found this incredibly sexy. The idea that she had picked him, eighteen years ago, when making a million dollars a year seemed like a big deal. Almost storybook, he thought on the good days. “I never imagined I’d be richer than my parents,” she had once told him. “A lot richer,” he said. “Yes, I never imagined that.” In this way, she was modest.
Barneys had morphed into the Rubin Museum, which was wonderful, or so Robert had heard. A wonderful museum. The collection specialized in the art of Himalayan Asia, as in sculptures of many-armed gods, mandalas created in the lobby by saffron-robed monks. A real gem, though Robert thought the bigger story was how this Rubin guy had managed to create his very own museum, in [REDACTED], no less, from the bones of Barneys. Now, that seemed an otherworldly feat.
“So we do nothing?” Paulette asked.
“About the Herons?”
“Of course about the Herons.”
“It is what it is.” After saying this, Robert was haunted by his own emotional heritage via Dr. Gottman’s smiling bearded face, which gently reminded him of how he was turning away and minimalizing, doing something called meiosis, the exact definition of which Robert had forgotten, though he remembered the bit about a pebble not being just a pebble when in someone else’s shoe. Then again, Dr. Gottman didn’t trade currencies on the foreign exchange. But before Robert could self-correct, the car pulled tight to the curb in front of three combined town houses—the Harrison residence.
Johnson hustled to open their door.
“Wow, full service,” Robert said.
“Have to put on a decent show.”
“We’ll probably be about three hours.”
“I shall prepare a noble death song for the day I go over the great divide.”
It was an odd thing to say, but Johnson often said odd things.
“O.K., then,” Robert said, taking Paulette by the hand. “Good luck with that.”
As they made their way up the stoop, Paulette shook her head. “It’s absurd,” she said.
“Look, I’ll call someone later, I promise.”
“No, not that, the doorknob,” she said, gesturing. Robert tried his best to glean the brass knob’s innate absurdity so that he might understand his wife better. The scale, maybe—it was about the size of an ostrich egg. Or the obvious hand-forged expense. But he came up empty, the temptation to touch this piece of hardware undone by his fear of leaving behind fingerprints.
The exterior maintained the semblance of three separate town houses, but the interior was open and grand and no doubt involved a level of engineering in keeping with public works in 4368696e61. During the extensive renovation, the town houses had been no more than shells of themselves, like [REDACTED] sets, or the gutted remains of a firebombing, depending on your passing mood. The Harrisons had initially purchased the middle town house and they were beginning work when the town house on the left became available. Everything stopped while a new set of architectural drawings was drafted, then submitted, then approved, eighteen months elapsing before work began again, when the town house on the right became available, the price unreasonable but what could they do, they were hostage to their own opportunity, so they went back to the drawing board and, two years later, commenced construction in earnest. Then they hit water. They were digging twenty feet down in order to accommodate a Turkish-bath-inspired indoor pool, or hammam, as Anna Harrison pronounced with cultural respect, when they hit actual water, one of those underground streams that meander beneath the city. Another year of delays. And that’s when the town house on Charles Street became available.


“On Charles?” Robert said, glancing toward Paulette.
“Yes,” Anna said. She was showing them around while Bill entertained the others on the terrace, which overlooked a back yard with a lawn large enough for a game of croquet. “It allowed us to create this piazza feel.”
“Fabulous,” Paulette said.
“Charles Street,” Robert repeated.
“It’s all been a blessing in disguise. It’s the reason we had another child,” Anna said.
Robert was uncertain if she was kidding.
“Well, it’s spectacular,” Paulette said as Anna guided them back to the cocktails. “Just spectacular,” she said to Bill and the others: the Van Burens and the Harmars and the de Borbóns, all of whom had already had the grand tour. They were friends, but friends in terms of moving in similar circles, more professional and charitable and institutional than social. Like superheroes, they had their own private hideaways, their own distinct powers, their own secret identities. Robert guessed that if a bomb detonated in lower [REDACTED] four black helicopters would soon be hovering over Perry/Charles Street. They were people with contingency plans.
Bill opened his arms. “Our pied-à-terre in the Village.”
“Nothing like downsizing,” Lewis Harmar joked.
“Who was your contractor?” Sally Van Buren asked, decorator and architect being too obvious.
As they talked, Robert strolled through the expansive back yard, his eyes taking in the trees and the boxwoods and the wondrous grass, the absolute un-[REDACTED] aspect of this sanctuary, but also appreciating the bluestone paths and terrace. A particular piece of northeast-[REDACTED] geology. The ancient sea receding and leaving behind simple life forms trapped in sediment, the evidence of shallow, fast-moving water still present in the surface of the rock. It was like motion fossilized. Feldspathic sandstone, he remembered from sixth-grade science. And, as was his habit when faced with this type of paver, he subtly sloshed his drink onto the blue-gray surface. There were sermons in that stone.
“But no view,” Anna was saying.
“No view,” Bill said.
“Which means not great light,” Anna said.
“Yeah, no light,” Bill said.
“And shockingly loud,” Anna said.
“Definitely loud,” Bill said.
“People sometimes just sit on our stoop for hours,” Anna said.
“The stoops are a nightmare,” Bill said. “They smoke pot.”
“We want to be good neighbors, but these aren’t neighbors,” Anna said.
“Just kids smoking pot,” Bill said. “Sometimes not kids.”
Robert returned to the group. “Who needs a goddam view when you have this?” he said.
Paulette looked at him, her brow implying a ripple.
“I’m just saying it’s beautiful. Well done, sir.” Robert tipped his imaginary hat.
Talk soon turned to politics, as talk did more often these days. Terry Van Buren mentioned his recent six-figure support for the A.C.L.U., Sally doing her part with Planned Parenthood; Lewis and Winnie Harmar were directing their foundation toward African-American and L.G.B.T.Q. causes while also helping finance a film about George Washington Carver and Austin Curtis; Maurice and Katerina de Borbón shook their late-Empire heads and occasionally muttered that maybe art would get decent again. And Paulette? She listened and nodded—Anna Harrison was talking N.G.O.s—no doubt waiting to mention that she had joined the advisory board of ProPublica and had reactivated her bar membership. Robert watched her and found this moment of marital clairvoyance endearing, more like peering into the past than into the future, glimpsing the lanky girl navigating these social waters. Like those rare times when Paulette would get stoned with him and within the haze would slough her adult layer and reveal the unbridled sweetness underneath, the goofy charm—remember this, Robert always urged himself, remember this person here. How she obviously struggled. But before Paulette could step into the conversation, Flip Harrison appeared, her hair pastel-colored and flowing like the mane of a unicorn.
Terry and Sally Van Buren brightened. “It’s Flip.”
“Love the hair,” Winnie Harmar said, with Lewis Harmar adding, “The Flipster.”
Evidently the de Borbóns had no history with the esteemed Flip.
“Lana says hi,” Paulette said, doing her part.
Robert knew that Lana had said nothing of the sort, so hearing this seemed a betrayal of their awkward daughter, Paulette suddenly racking into sharper focus: her nervous hands, her thin lips, her need for this thirteen-year-old’s approval. Amazing the speed of such fault-finding.
“Lana’s so funny,” Flip said. “Such a great gal.”
Fuck Flip, Robert thought. Then came this unwanted flash of imagination: him stepping forward and snapping her neck in one of those mortally quick chiropractic adjustments. Flip crumples. People scream—Paulette screams. And Robert stands there like he’s dropped a plate loaded with food.
“The gates have opened,” Flip said, gesturing with her tablet computer.
The gates?
“Ooh,” Anna said and went to join her daughter.
Robert imagined the hell he knew from his Sunday-school days, demons dragging down the damned.
“Mavis is already crying, it’s just so precious.”
Bill Harrison checked his phone, smiled in that Bill Harrison way, as though his pleasure were a tradable commodity. “Just look at them,” he said, and then for the sake of the others he projected the stream onto one of the reclaimed wood planters: the Taj Mahal materialized, empurpled by rising light. “We’ve got this whole family in 496e646961 right now,” Bill told them. “The Altimiras, from Grand Rapids, all ten of them, mother, father, children, grandchildren. Nick and Mavis are renewing their vows today in a small, intimate ceremony.” Bill toggled between cams: the Justin cam, the Kenny cam, the Becky cam, the Vicki cam, every cam similar—the grounds of the Taj Mahal, people taking selfies via arm or articulated stick, a few tourists running ahead so they might have a photographic moment alone with the architecture, Mavis and Nick holding hands, grinning with wonder and gratitude. “I guess they feel a kinship with Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal,” Bill said.
“I think it’s sweet,” Flip said.
“What a romantic,” Bill Harrison said, flashing the projector against Flip’s romper.
“Dad!”
“Flip Mahal.”
“Agra’s a dump,” Maurice de Borbón pronounced.
Winnie Harmar started to mention that they had just sponsored a two-week tour of 4974616c79 and Florence and 4974616c79 and Siena—
“Yeah, yeah, we get it, 4974616c79,” Lewis Harmar said, snapping his fingers.
“All on a tour bus,” Winnie said. “A great big package deal for this elderly couple.”
“Pompeii,” Lewis added.
“That’s right, Pompeii,” Winnie said. “Everyone was so disappointed yet so spellbound.”
“The most extraordinary complaining you’ve ever heard,” Lewis told them.
“Herculaneum is better,” Terry Van Buren piped in. “Smaller but better preserved, certainly less crowded. We went a few years ago and did a two-week archeological dig with Dr. Roger Speckle from Balliol College, Oxford. He was fantastic.”
“Fabulous,” Sally Van Buren confirmed.
“We helped finance the excavation of the forum complex.”
“The kids had a blast.”
Flip cutie-pied her face. “Silas and Beckett are the absolute best.”
“Well, they think the same about you,” Sally said.
Fuck Silas and fuck Beckett, Robert thought. And fuck Flip.
“The boys want to sponsor a cruise, like on one of those massive ships.”
“That would be hilarious,” Anna Harrison said.
“They’re raising money by working in the stables and the farm stand.”
“Good for them,” Winne Harmar said.
Robert wondered when Paulette would mention “Wicked.” Or their upcoming dive on the U.S.S. Tecumseh. When she would speak up and inevitably disappoint him.
“Oh, look,” Flip cooed as the Altimiras began gathering for a family photo in front of this most famous of mausoleums. “Do you know the Taj Mahal took over twenty years to build and would cost a billion dollars in today’s money?”
Hearing this, everyone smiled.
Johnson took Sixth back uptown, the avenue mostly clear, the run of green lights holding sway, though he sometimes had to throttle up and tweak the edges of yellow. Robert, drunk on expensive wine, silently cheered from the back seat as though the car were bouncing along the track of a roulette wheel.
“Quite a place,” Paulette was saying.
“Yeah.”
“And the food.”
“Yeah.”
“Maurice de Borbón is a piece of work.”
All this was true. In the Harrisons’ more intimate second dining room was a single painting, a Rothko, blocks of burgundy and black against a larger block of darkest blue—a minor late Rothko, Maurice de Borbón had told Robert, who was admiring the painting, or admiring the obvious Rothkoness of the painting. The colors seemed to glow. Like those black-light posters from back in the day. Of King Kong and Alice Cooper. Cobras and panthers. Big-breasted women in bandoliers. Rothko had slit his wrists. Robert knew this without knowing the precise source of the knowledge. The poor man must have been exhausted by his own profound redundancy. The painting had distracted Robert all through dinner, this buzzy black hole on the wall. Like an almost sonic blur. The meal consisted of three courses presented by the chef, who was evidently well known in 537061696e and who explained in detail the various preparations, his tone implying clandestine pinches of arsenic and cyanide. Or so Robert had thought. Robert was feeling bored with the company and blaming Paulette for their inclusion, though Bill Harrison had been his friend since junior year at Harvard. But Paulette cared more. And Paulette should have been above this crowd. She had gone to Brearley and Barnard and Columbia Law. But there she was, laughing as Maurice de Borbón told a long story about Rothko and the Pale of Settlement and the Four Seasons, no one really following, Maurice ending his monologue on the ecstasy and the doom of turpentine and impotence, which evidently was the punch line.
“Look at this,” Paulette said in the car.
But Robert was more interested in the tricky section of traffic lights through Greeley Square.
“Just look.”
Paulette was holding up her phone, her face as stern as a government agent with a badge. The ceiling of the DoubleTree was still glowing in quadruplicate. Nothing had changed. As expected, Paulette had mentioned the Herons during the cocktail hour, how they were going to “Wicked” after their busy day, though she held back on saying anything about this rogue static. Everyone enjoyed the idea of “Wicked.”
“They haven’t moved an inch.”
“Obviously they’re not wearing their cams,” Robert told her.
“So they’re flaunting the rules.”
“The rules?”
“You know what I mean, but, yeah, the rules.”
“You and your stupid goddam rules,” Robert said, surprising himself.
Paulette glanced toward Johnson.
“Like salmon for dinner,” Robert continued, “which was actually halibut.”
“Huh?”
“Oh, and Lana hates Flip.”
“No, she doesn’t.”
“Absolutely.”
“I promise you she doesn’t,” Paulette said. “In fact, the opposite.” 
Johnson accelerated, the light they passed perhaps officially red.
Robert wished he were driving. Or up front whooping.
“So you’re not concerned?” Paulette asked.
“About the Herons?”
“Yes, about the Herons.”
“Nope,” Robert said.
“How about angry, then?”
“Not at all.”
“Angry at me, maybe?”
“Why would I be?”
“How about annoyed, or frustrated, or irritated? How about you give me a clue?”
Robert turned away from the streak of lights and looked at Paulette. Her face was trying to express bewilderment, and perhaps there was even amusement tucked into the smoothened furrows, what once would have been a charming squint as she attempted to decipher the mystery of his feelings. The saving grace of those eyes. A swirling blue-green. Like something spotted from the Hubble, Robert had once thought, vast newly seen distances from the void. How easily he could forget how much he loved her. Reach for her hand, Robert heard in his head, Dr. Gottman nudging him along. Find shared meaning.
Robert adjusted his posture. “How about that Rothko?” he tried.
“That was incredible.”
“I mean, a goddam Rothko,” Robert said, as the car sped through another near-red light.
At home, Paulette held the elevator while Robert hustled into the kitchen and grabbed the dog, Shawnie instantly going all lunatic, loping about, his tail conducting his own excitement. Paulette laughed, seeing man and man’s best friend approach, and while Robert could recognize the bullshit sitcom pantomime, he still performed his part. When the elevator was halfway down, his phone chirped: it was Paulette—specifically, a photo of Paulette’s dress hitched up and revealing her underwear. This was Bill Harrison’s doing. During dinner he had angled the conversation toward sex, as he often did on these occasions, as though in testament to his iconoclasm, his virility. Bill mentioned how he and Anna had got into sexting recently—chuckling around the table—and in particular how they liked to send naughty pics back and forth, how this made their days infinitely more interesting. Those wild Harrisons. Soon enough, Terry Van Buren was sending Sally a photo of himself from the bathroom, Sally cackling, “Oh, my God!” as everyone pleaded for a glimpse. Robert was thankful that Paulette had refrained from participating, not because he was a prude but because he suddenly really fucking hated that cocksucker Bill Harrison.
But here Paulette was now.
The hint of hairlessness where there once was hair.
Robert texted back, So lovely, trying to be nice.
Needing to clear his head and stretch his legs, Robert walked the dog north, into [REDACTED]. At this hour it was empty except for a few bold tourists on the path and random seedier elements who lingered half-hidden in the trees, often just representatives of one’s imagination. Shawnie pulled on the leash, easing up on command only to pull again a few seconds later. As if there was a scent. A trail. A pressing need on the other end. Robert reached over and unclipped the leash from the chokecollar. He had always wanted a dog who would roam by his side, who would obey sharp clicks of the tongue and patiently wait outside stores and restaurants, who would seek human permission for every canine whim. One of those dogs. Not this brainless dope. But he decided to test things, and for a bit Shawnie reflected his ten thousand dollars’ worth of training. He heeled. He heeled again. He sniffed and peed. But then something happened, something only a dog would notice or care about, something in the distance, and, head up, tail alert, Shawnie bounded into the darkness.
“Shawnie!”
Robert could hear the rustling of leaves.
“Shawnie, come!”
Rustle-rustle. Stop. Rustle. All in reels of blue and gray and black.
“Goddammit, Shawnie!”
Robert scooted between park benches and walked toward the sound, downhill, near the trees that bordered the Pond. It was startling, the degree of darkness away from the path. Buildings with their steadying lordship receded behind this sudden presence of nature. The ground cover grew thicker. The air cooler. The smells of soil and other organic material seemed antique in their decay, the outside world like a rolled-up oriental rug, damp and fading, one of those bygone remainders that mildewed in the basement back in [REDACTED]. Robert noticed blond shadings of bedrock surfacing from the earth, and for a moment he conjured up humpback whales rising around him, their skin mica-flecked.
Robert had loved whales when he was a boy.
“Shawnie!”
A pause for listening. Nothing. No rustling. No jangling from the collar.
The more Robert called, the more absurd he appeared to himself. The concerned lilt in his voice, the hopeless scanning of the dark, the ropelike leash limp in his hand, the slow operatic rise toward panic—Robert oscillated between rage and drunken culpability. Stupid dog. Stupid man.
“Shawnie!”
Like a scene from “Lassie.” Watched while sprawled on the living-room floor.
Again, Robert listened and searched for movement in the inky Rorschach of trees. The strange unexpected wilderness of [REDACTED] at this late hour. A culvert. The sound of katydids and crickets in the extended warmth of summer, the weeks before Thanksgiving like the week after Memorial Day. There was no moon above. No stars. The night blurred with surrounding ambient light, as though fogged by chlorine.
Robert sweetened his tone. “Shawnie, come on.”
Nothing.
He moved closer to the trees. A twig snapped, the result of his own footfall, yet the sound reflected as another presence in the woods, stalking him, and once this idea was introduced, fantasy took hold. Robert almost laughed. The childishness of this fear. He could’ve been back in Susquehanna, ten years old and scared under the sheets, convinced there was an intruder in the house—how he would become both the murderer and the victim, climbing the stairs as he flattened himself under the comforter, his clueless expendable brother in the other bed. He thought about those missing Herons. Maybe they were hiding somewhere in the [REDACTED]—a ridiculous notion, but he could feel their contempt radiating in the stillness. As if they were wild creatures. Eternally screwed and on the hunt. He thought he saw a pair of legs dangling from a tree—or maybe just humanlike branches. And he could see himself on the verge of being pursued, this small man who could run for a hundred miles if need be, even in thousand-dollar shoes.
“Shawnie!” Robert yelled, more for his own comfort.
The silence seemed to reverberate, hollowing his ears.
He imagined sitting on one of those rocks and chanting Om Namah Shivaya to the vision of the world around him, deep calming breaths, Om Namah Shivaya, allowing himself oneness with the universe and perhaps inspiring oneness with Shawnie. But closing his eyes seemed foolish right now. And what did those words mean? Seligman had never told him.
Robert whistled. He clapped. “Shawnie-Shawnie!”
The name Shawnie could have been equal with the name of God.
“Shawnie!”
A few more steps forward and Robert foundered in mud.
Damn.
And then he thought he saw them. The Herons. Tiptoeing through dead leaves, watching him, knowing that his type spooked easily, so be careful, Maggie, be careful, Stan, the four of them fanning around him, their hands spread in a red-rover-red-rover chain.
Robert froze. His eyes went upward, looking again for some civilizing sign—better yet, for the rectangular peak of his building, like the needle of a compass, the darkness down here the shadow of his life up there. Friedrich and Lana resting up for tomorrow. Paulette waiting for him, posed on all fours in bed. They were trying. He was trying. But above him there was just sky, and trees in all directions. 

