Underground
By David Gilbert
On went his sharpest three-piece, the Saxony tweed, followed by the double monk straps, in burnished caramel, which Michael knew would trigger a coo from dear old Mom. Her stylish son. So handsome. A throwback from her side of the family, those oh-so-attractive Pfeiffers, with their thick manes and their broad shoulders and their clear complexions, none of the men standing below six feet one. No doubt she would comment on how he was graying—for the past few years, this had been a regular topic of conversation—and then tell him how distinguished he looked. Like Cary Grant. Or, no, George Clooney—yes, yes, yes, George Clooney, she would amend, as if George Clooney made all the difference. And Michael would smile the smile he had perfected in boarding school, around the time that a tuxedo was first introduced into his wardrobe and he had insisted on learning how to tie a bow tie rather than using a cheap clip-on, like his older brother and his father. Those amateurs. Mr. Collins, his Latin teacher, had taught him, and after an hour of practice Michael had the knot mastered along with a boner-size bruise on his backside. “Remember, nothing genuine ever comes easily,” Mr. Collins told him, adjusting, then readjusting, those silky lobes, “especially in a world populated by fakes and fakers.” That Christmas, Michael had performed this small sartorial feat for his mother and, as expected, she had practically exploded—“Well, look at you, Mr. Bond, Mr. James Bond!”—after which she had brushed some dandruff from his jacket, ridding him of his father’s inheritance. Those seborrheic Salters.
Michael, dressed and combed, marched into the living area of his loft and gave Jeremy his fiercest boys’-catalogue pose: all tilt and akimbo, pure tween sassafras. But Jeremy was preoccupied with his phone, in other words sprawled on the couch, near-naked, composing a late-morning selfie for his tens of thousands of followers. Michael altered his angle of entry by crossing his arms and arching his back—boom, business meets recess—but Jeremy remained within the purview of his touch screen, his right hand stretching up and rotating as though changing a hard-to-reach light bulb. “Um, hello,” Michael said finally, his Fauntleroy floundering.
“One sec.”
A dozen microscopic expressions crossed Jeremy’s face.
An exultation in stop-motion.
Michael broke character and went over and grabbed from the coffee table the box of Cheerios, the spoon and bowl, the sweaty carton of milk; came back from the kitchen area and retrieved the half-dozen overboard rings of honey-nut oats, a few of them adrift on the dhurrie, and with a paper towel wiped clear the lingering chalk outlines of milk. Jeremy could be a bit of a walking crime scene. Clothes thrown everywhere. Wet towels draped over chairs. Here and there the evidence of fruit-eating by way of stem, pit, and core. Michael would have to buy more cereal. And orange juice, the no-pulp kind.
Jeremy ended his photo session with a moue.
“You know, I could just take your picture,” Michael told him from the sink.
“Then it wouldn’t be a selfie.”
“God forbid.”
Picture posted, Jeremy turned onto his side, his body smooth and muscular, as if he moved through water rather than air. “The selfie isn’t about me, stupid. It’s more a communal thing, the form insinuating a kind of longing.” Jeremy had gone to Cornell, which had been his third choice and so far his greatest disappointment in life.
“But most of those people are total strangers,” Michael said.
“There are no more strangers.”
And he was only half-joking.
“O.K.,” Michael said. “Good to know.” He stood there, nodding, slotting back into the register of a clueless middle-aged man, his earlier pose forgotten. Every passing second seemed a gentle yet firm reprimand, a tick of you, you, you, with Michael slackly agreeing to the sentiment. Straight ahead, through large casement windows, came that expansive view of downtown [REDACTED], what the real-estate agent had called the money shot: building upon building, in stacks and layers, die-cut against blue. It was like living in a life-size diorama. Everything vanished toward that nasty piece of negative space known as the Freedom Tower, with its harem of fresh construction, which Michael would always regard as brand new and ridiculous—the ridiculous name, the ridiculous height, the ridiculous symbolism. So paranoid. So desperate for meaning. Might as well be a giant hypodermic. Michael stopped nodding. The day ahead started to take oppressive shape in his chest. He tried to smell the roses and blow out the candles, like his father during his final years, but neither flower nor flame helped. Maybe he should take a Klonopin before leaving. Or quickly masturbate in front of Jeremy, who was always game, nursing his balls and giving him a cheer when he finished. That sometimes helped. But those swan dives invariably ended in belly flops. Really, he should just go.
“This couch sucks,” Jeremy said.
“Huh?”
“This couch, it totally sucks.”
“No, it doesn’t.”
“Most certainly does.” Jeremy tossed about like an antsy boy. “Torturous.”
“It is a quantifiably great couch,” Michael said.
“Well, my body says otherwise.” Jeremy raised his legs into the air, then reached up and touched his toes, his stomach turning into windswept sand. “Now I know where yoga mats go to die,” he said.
Michael grinned, glad for his humor and lightness. Because Jeremy was clever. And cute. Enthusiastically optimistic, like a walking advertisement for all that Michael had lost. Pain-free mornings. Low-grade gravity. Pills for recreation instead of life support. Jeremy worked in social-media P.R., though his actual job was a mystery beyond posting photographs of himself in various scenes and situations, going to parties and openings, a butcher shop, even. Michael had met him a month earlier, on Grindr, expecting nothing from his “hello there” message—always expecting nothing, and feeling lecherous and gross and in over his head, forty-seven years old but only two years clear of the proverbial closet, which nowadays seemed as antiquated as an armoire. But Jeremy, God bless him, had answered with “hello handsome.” Always a glitchy thrill. The promise of easy sex mixed with the fantasy of maybe something more. That was seven dates ago, which made him Michael’s most serious boyfriend. Whenever Jeremy visited, he would immediately drop his coat and shoulder bag and go straight for the tub—cast iron, clawfoot—where he’d soak for an hour with a stack of magazines. Michael bought bath salts and bath oils, a bath pillow. He invested in thicker towels. One of those special trays for reading. Architectural Digest. He liked surprising Jeremy with these small things.
“I was wondering,” Jeremy said.
“Yes?” Michael always hoped these ellipses might lead to bed.
“You know my friend Connor?”
“Don’t think so.”
“Tall Connor. Skinny Connor. That Connor.”
“O.K.”
“Anyway”—Jeremy scooted to a sitting position, which enabled him to butterfly-stretch his inner thighs—“he’s invited us to dinner tonight, and it should be fun, a good crowd, and I think we should go.”
“I have my girls.”
“Since when?”
“Since most every other Friday.”
Jeremy picked up his phone and began knitting the screen. “That’s too bad.”
“I mean, I could try to change. Last second, but—”
“Oh, God, please don’t,” Jeremy said. “I get it.” He glanced up and dispatched an efficient yet lovely smile, its effortlessness almost crushing. “Seriously, I get it,” he said again, now planting his feet on the floor. “I just wanted to do something fun together, and I think you deserve to have some fun, like, some real fun, that’s all.” 

Michael winced, more stung than soothed, knowing he had disappointed Jeremy, had disappointed yet another person in his life, so many of these disappointed people nested within him, rattling around whenever he moved, his own pea-shaped self in the smallest hollow. There was no winning. “I’m sorry,” he said.
“Oh, shit, I’ll survive.” Jeremy got up from the couch.
Michael looked on with a mixture of awe and hunger, and maybe sadness, too, as if he were somehow undeserving of the sight. Jeremy rolled his shoulders and loosened his neck, a final calisthenic before diving into the day, after which he stared back at Michael and placed his hands over his pecs. A joke of demureness. Though the gesture always reminded Michael of Jamie Lee Curtis in “Trading Places.” He was twelve when he saw the movie with his older brother, and that scene where she removes her tacky wig and her cheap hooker dress, exposing her cropped hair and her—oh, my God—and then cups her hands over her breasts and turns away from the mirror and confronts the camera, unabashed, that scene, that moment, that brazen glimpse of the person underneath, was like a revelation. “Nice fucking tits,” his brother muttered.
Michael descended into the station at Union Square, the subway always a source of pleasure, and pride—he had grown up in the city during a time when no sane person dared travel underground, when the borders of a particular neighborhood were defined by the limits of a five-dollar cab fare. Down in these depths, Michael experienced a gritty rush beyond his parents’ know-how, as well as a certain level of efficiency, economic and practical, not normally associated with his name—oh, and the humanity, too, all that humanity pressed together: man and woman, young and old, black and white, rich and poor, though even the rich in [REDACTED] considered themselves poor.
Near the stairs for the N and the R trains, a woman played “Space Oddity” on the handsaw, the sound so curvy and strange as to be momentarily enchanting before slipping into the plain old weird. She was a regular, every so often taking the improvised stage and busking for money and for that even greater [REDACTED] commodity: attention. Michael knew her. Just as he knew the guitar god, the opera singer, the pan flutist, the jug band; and down the concourse the born-agains, the break-dancers, the Hare Krishnas; and everywhere the cops, their faces changing though their eyes remained constant, suspicious yet bored. The rest was transience, people moving through the static, like Michael, heading uptown with exaggerated purpose.
On the platform, as he waited for the 6 train, which would arrive in six minutes, the sign read, he took advantage of the Internet connection beneath Fourteenth Street, always a pleasant surprise, to check his e-mail—nothing yet about any buyers for his “Bride” poster—and then to glance at Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, though glance was too strong a word, more like power scroll, which often ended on Grindr. Like now. Here were all the nearby available men, most of them nameless, designated only by a radius. Two hundred and twelve feet. Three hundred and three feet. The thrill of this fuckableradar. And there was nothing to stop him, no guilt, no shame, no possibility for scandal. He was in the clear. A new man. Honest and alive. The profile pictures sometimes told stories beyond the person’s control, the bathrooms, the gyms, the shirt raised, the terrible lighting, as did the breakdown of personality into traits and preferences and codes. It was all so businesslike. And while Michael appreciated the physical remove of this version of cruising, hunting for someone who might change the quality of your day, the search could also leave him feeling undeniably heartbroken.
The train car was standing room only, so Michael went to the front end and leaned against the interstitial door. He shut down Grindr in favor of shoulder-friendly solitaire, but most of his attention, particularly during the initial lurch forward, was focussed on whether any of his fellow-passengers were hidden threats. Old-timey muggers had been replaced by suicide bombers. Michael scanned for backpacks and bulky coats. He wondered if anyone recognized the seriousness of his gaze, if they imagined, as he did, a snub-nosed pistol strapped to his ankle, him yelling “Down! Down! Down!” as he tried to get a decent shot before the terrorist detonated his death vest. Michael the hero. This everyday fantasy was likely hardwired into his brain from seeing too many movies as a boy. The same with his habit of doing countdowns when rooting around for his wallet or his keys. Laughable, really. These knee-jerk daydreams. But just last month he had given up his seat to a girl, maybe six years old—the train was packed, and Michael was tapping on his phone, appearing busy so that he might avoid the pressing eye contact, when he spotted the girl, double-clutching her mother’s arm, trying to remain calm among all these nerve-racking adults. She was near tears, though no one noticed except Michael—yes, Michael noticed, and he stood up and offered her his seat, whereupon she sort of collapsed into a relieved smile and hugged him right there in the middle of the train, her small arms wrapping around him, squeezing hard, before sitting down. People murmured their approval, so darling, the brief conjunction of goodness on this goddam nightmare ride. And Michael came close to crying himself, the wave crashing just short of his eyes. It was almost too much for being exactly what he wanted. And really he shouldn’t have been sitting at all.

“Honey, do you remember if I already sent Skinny Frank a fish in the mail?”
The restaurant was populated primarily by women, the median age fifty-three, though everyone shopped at the same stores and went to the same cosmetic surgeons, so they were similarly shiny and spackled, stuck on the same expression of mistaken wonder. Six of them were wearing fur vests; ten of them were in open-knit sweaters. Imagine a hundred sisters having lunch together, their parents [REDACTED]. Michael walked in and knew these women, knew how to enchant them, knew the proper nouns to cast into conversations, legitimately knew two of them: Mrs. Dean over there, and then, in the far corner, Mom, Mrs. Salter, Mary, the handsome unrepentant sister, her lack of Botox a knotted cord to whip the others with. She was sitting alone, hunting and pecking on her phone, her index finger bouncing as though on a small black trampoline.
“Hello, hello,” Michael said.
“Oh, there you are.” Mom removed her glasses and surveyed him, which Michael obliged by extending his hands along the rail of his intended chair and pitching forward, like an actor playing a waiter playing a son, the trinity of solicitousness. “Don’t you look nice,” she said.
“Thanks.” Michael sat down, applying napkin to lap.
“You got a haircut.”
As expected, she had noticed.
“Looks good. Very sharp.”
“And I like the jacket,” Michael offered in return.
“Ralph.”
“Very nice.”
“On sale.”
“Even nicer.”
Mom took in the room, unshackled now that she had a tablemate, her son, no less, his pleasant appearance trumping all other deficiencies, like his lack of a real job and his divorce, his spendthrift ways—“I’m worried about you,” as she often told him on the phone, though in person she was comforted by his grooming. His homosexuality was another matter. It seemed, well, embarrassing at his age, like suddenly changing careers, and, even worse, a missed opportunity, since she would have loved to have had a gay son twenty, thirty years ago, when such a thing might have counted for something. “How about this place?” she said, which she always said when they came here for lunch, taking in all the ladies and the rare uncommitted man.
“Yep, quite a scene,” Michael agreed.
“Still the place to be,” she said, with her normal mix of self-congratulation and scorn.
“Suppose so.”
“A younger crowd.”
“Maybe young by your definition.”
Mom smiled, her lips rupturing like stitches. “You’re not so young anymore.”
“True.”
“Almost fifty,” she said. “Hard to believe.”
“I did cocaine in the bathroom here once, decades ago.”
“Stop.”
“Seriously.”
“You’re awful.”
“With Peter,” Michael added.
“Oh, Peter,” Mom said, with polished sadness. “He did like to have his fun.”
“That he did.”
“I wrote a condolence letter to Jessie. I do hope she got it.”
“I’m sure she did. She’s only on Eighty-third Street, not Timbuktu.”
“Well, I hope so, because it was a good letter. I mentioned that time Peter came to the country house, when he was maybe six, seven years old, and he told me he could swim, remember that, and he just jumped into the pool, in the deep end, no less, and sank like a stone, right to the bottom, him looking up at me, as calm as could be, hello Mrs. Salter, and I had to dive in, remember, and save him. Ruined my not so cheap watch.”
Michael nodded, though he remembered only her telling of the story.
“Such reckless confidence. I put all that in the letter.”
“Uh-huh.” Michael opened up the menu, in need of some distraction and a sense of purpose beyond recalling all the letters and notes he never wrote, though he did have a terrific collection of stationery, thanks to the woman across from him. Every Christmas brought a new box from Crane’s, embossed with his monogram, as though he were a man of great correspondence. These gifts had started when he was ten, small cards with a cartoon image of a movie clapboard, his name marked as the director. Michael. Those were the days when he wanted to be called Mike, Mike Salter, which was closer to Steve—never Steven—Austin, man barely alive. Of course, he was forced to use this new stationery for thank-you notes, the labor overwhelming whatever crappy present he had received. And his mother always insisted on more details. “You have to sound like you mean it,” she would tell him. He really should write Jessie, he thought as he perused the assortment of pizzas and the signature cheeseburger with black truffle and Brie, all very tempting, though Michael would likely settle on a kale salad and have a staring contest with the bread.
“You see Peggy Dean over there?” Mom asked.
“Yes. I waved.”
“You know Stewart Dean is sick. Very sick.”
“I didn’t know that.”
“Yes, terrible. Pancreatic cancer.”
“Christ, that’s awful.”
“Horrendous. I put them in touch with Aaron—you remember Aaron,” she said, referring to the nurse who had helped with his father’s demise, Aaron who knew the correct way to handle a fragile man, lifting him from his chair to the walker or the wheelchair, checking his oxygen levels, comparing the slightest change in body temperature against broader, more catastrophic implications. Thank God for Aaron, mother and father had both proclaimed. “I’ve already booked him in advance for me,” Mom said.
“Please.”
“Seriously, when it’s my time, I want Aaron.”
“Can he do hair and makeup as well?”
Mom laughed, but she laughed easily for him.
“Well, it’s not happening anytime soon,” Michael said. And that was the truth. She had sturdy Presbyterian genes, a large cross-generational swath of friends, two dogs she cherished, a vibrant book group, a passion for gardening, and a yearning for travel. Before their conversation could progress toward lunch and money—maybe a loan or an advance on his inheritance, something to help with the rent, the child support, the zeros in his bank account fast approaching a solitary zero, Mom his eternal backstop—before Michael could start playing the old game of please feel sorry for me, the waiter arrived, not with the promise of taking their order but with Michael’s older brother in tow, Henry, squat and flushed, bald, who grabbed the free chair like a wrestler grabbing a pair of shoulders.
“Sorry I’m late.”
“You made it,” Mom said.
“Couldn’t find a parking space. Had to use a garage. God knows what that’ll cost.”
Michael managed an accommodating smile. “Didn’t know you were joining us.”
“In the city for a meeting,” Henry said.
“So nice you’re here.” Mom touched the table near his hand.
“Traffic was awful. Waze screwed me.”
Henry was wearing his standard uniform of tan khakis, white oxford, red tie, blue blazer, the over-all fit simultaneously too loose and too snug, which gave the impression that his head was slowly being born from his clothes. Michael almost had to look away, the sight seeming too intimate.
“Lunch with my two boys,” Mom said.
“This place certainly does a booming business,” Henry said.
“You see Peggy Dean?” she asked.
“I did. I said hi.”
“You know Stewart Dean is dying.”
“I heard it was treatable,” Henry said. “That’s what Bill Dean said.”
“It’s pancreatic.”
“I know, but Bill said it was treatable.”
“I’m sure they’re trying everything. In any case, I gave them Aaron’s name.”
“Oh, O.K.”
“Aaron can still be a big help.”
“Yeah, Aaron’s great.”
“I swear,” Michael said, “Dad’s last words were ‘Where’s Aaron?’ ”
His brother stared at him with that old look of extreme dislike.
“I’m joking, obviously.”
“Not one of your best,” Henry said.
“Though your father really did love Aaron,” Mom added.
The waiter came over and asked about drinks, but Mom and Henry both agreed on ordering, speed always the key, so the waiter waited, pen twitching like a seismograph needle as these Salters scanned the menu, Michael stepping forward with a kale salad, please, which received a healthy sigh from Mom, who was debating between chicken paillard and salmon, and then deciding on fettuccine and an iced tea, while Henry challenged the merits of a thirty-dollar cheeseburger, the waiter describing the subtle combination of dry-aged rib eye and brisket and strip steak, Brie cheese, black truffle, a brioche bun, Henry finally relenting, substituting [REDACTED] for Brie, and a Diet Coke with no ice. Michael handed his menu to the waiter, feeling in natural cahoots with the man, the two of them forced to serve this family.
“So,” Mom said, relieved that the ordering portion of the meal was over.
Henry leaned over the table, his posture reminiscent of their father’s, though more fearsome in its bequeathed sanctimony, like some kind of gargoyle. “How’s the poster business?” he asked Michael.
“O.K.,” Michael said. “Might be some interest in my ‘Bride of Frankenstein.’ ”
“And how much would that set someone back?”
“I’d take two hundred and fifty thousand.”
“Dollars?”
“Yep.”
“For a poster?”
“It’s incredibly rare and in triple-mint condition.”
“Triple mint, huh? Well, never mind, then.”
“It’s very desirable in certain circles.” And also quite beautiful, you fucking jerk, but Michael held back on saying this, as he held back on saying so many things, all for the sake of being pleasant.
“I can only imagine those, um, circles,” Henry said, grinning.
Michael nodded slantwise, self-deprecation his only defense.
“And what’d you pay for the thing?” Henry asked. 
“For the one sheet?”
“Yeah, how much?”
“Around seventy thousand,” Michael said, though the actual sum was much higher.
“Not bad.”
“Oh, that reminds me,” Mom said, happy to join in. “I had the Chagall appraised.”
“And?”
A pause for dramatics. “One point four million,” she said.
“Wow. Very nice.”
“I know. Think your father paid a hundred thousand for it.”
“Go, Dad.”
“Really quite amazing,” she said.
Michael refrained from telling them his opinion of Chagall and of that painting in particular, which hung in the living room of his parents’ apartment. It was one of the artist’s whimsical wedding scenes, with newlyweds perched atop a flying cow, the Eiffel Tower in one corner, a shtetl in the other, a violin-playing chicken smiling upon the happy couple. The colors were gaudy, the arrangement of figures too crowded, the visual effect like the first nauseous signs of a migraine. It had been a tenth-anniversary present from Robert to Mary, and so carried a gesture of love, an implication Michael could never square, especially when witnessing their long history of silences, how they lived their lives in parallel and never seemed to approach buoyancy, except, perhaps, during Dad’s illness, when Mom tended to him as if his daily survival were another landscaping project, as well executed as the pergola in [REDACTED]. When Michael was nine and more responsive to the fairy-tale charms of Chagall, his mother confessed her distaste for the painting. “Not my favorite by a long shot,” she told him. “It clashes with everything and just overwhelms the room. But don’t tell your father.”
“Of course, I’m not ever selling it,” Mom said to her boys.
“Of course not,” Henry said.
The conversation turned to kids, to summer plans, to other people’s problems, and while Michael participated, adding here and there stories about Maude and Hannah and their most recent obsessions, scoring laughs from Mom and a few reluctant chuckles from Henry, still, he could feel himself slipping into bystander mode, as though listening through a door, safe yet ill at ease, the life on the other side mysteriously articulated. Really he just hoped to get through the meal and his brother’s inevitable criticism of the overpriced cheeseburger, his mother’s desperation to nail down Memorial Day weekend and, after that, July 4th, the [REDACTED] guest ranch in August, her treat, all these things, all these nice things—“Should we go somewhere for Christmas?”—with Michael following along because he had no other options, considering his hazy finances and his inability to decide anything solid for himself, so he gave this woman his full backing, and after lunch he gave her one of his patented Michael hugs on Madison—“You look so good,” she told him—and to Henry, who was rushing to his meeting in midtown, he gave a quick wave goodbye.
The middle-school mothers of [REDACTED] waited outside on the street, in roving bands of three and four, most of them discussing the weekend ahead, the travel teams, the dash to the country barring birthday parties, all of them armed with phones, which they shunned but continued to worry with their fingers, like large river stones. The nannies had no qualms; their heads remained lowered, focussed on screens, as if reading Scripture. Michael stayed in their outer orbit. He was one of four dads waiting, the other three similarly preoccupied, their presence noteworthy enough to be beyond technological reproach. Together, they had the look of paternal rock stars, though on occasion the light shifted and these men took on the aura of junkies. Michael ran his fingers through his hair. The afternoon high of seventy-three was warm enough to unstitch a few loose strands of sweat and make him lament the Saxony tweed. He unbuttoned his jacket, then, on second thought, rebuttoned his jacket, after which he unbuttoned his jacket again. He knew a handful of the mothers, women streamlined and organized, so capable, whose husbands he had been forced to socialize with, at restaurants and cocktail parties, fathers who intimidated him, who were so professional, who played golf and tennis, who adopted [REDACTED] as their home town rather than being trapped here by birth. Michael wondered if they ever talked about him. These people had all disappeared so quickly, fading into the barest of recognitions, as though their friendliness was just a misunderstanding.
Michael checked his phone. There were no new e-mails of note, and while he was tempted to search through Grindr he refrained in this setting. Instead, feeling sad and wanting to feel sadder, he thumbed through his text history with Peter, which had become an artifact of last words, date- and time-stamped.
Tuesday, November 3rd
8:43am Michael: How you doing today?
9:34am Michael: Up for a visit?
9:46am Michael: I’m around if you need me.

“Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, let me present the alternative facts of the case.”
Sometimes Michael found himself jealous of the cancer. All the attention, all the sympathy. No explanations needed. No excuses. People forced to love you, to be considerate and kind. Of course, he realized this was absurd, outrageous, even. His oldest friend. His best friend, as silly as the term sounded post-childhood. My best friend, Peter. Dead six months.
2:30pm Michael: Any better or stupid question?
2:57pm Michael: I might come by and see you. That okay?
3:49pm Michael: Thinking of you.
4:22pm Michael: I might need some of your morphine.
4:28pm Peter: All mine.
4:30pm Michael: Hey, that got your attention! You never did share well.
4:42pm Michael: Not true. You were always a tremendous sharer. Coming by in an hour. Got the green light from Jessie. Hide the morphine.
Michael was pretty sure that Peter knew how to swim, that he had just been joking on the day he sank to the bottom of their pool, pretending to drown, or not even pretending, just sinking down, untethered from what stood above.
9:57pm Michael: I just want to say I love you, pal. Not to get maudlin. I wish you weren’t going through what you’re going through, but at least you’re surrounded by people who love you. This sweep through Peter was interrupted by a text from Caitlin.
Friday, May 26
3:31pm Caitlin: Where are you?
The question still had its kick, like he was in trouble.
3:32pm Michael: At school, waiting for the girls. Why?
3:32pm Caitlin: Never mind, I see you.
And then he saw her, coming from the west. She weaved through the other mothers, smiling and saying a few words in passing, Caitlin, sunny and sweet, catching his eye and giving him that old conspiratorial squint, the two of them still able to bond over the dubious appeal of these high-strung parents. Except that her performance always seemed more confident and less soul-crushing than his. She was also in love, with a screenwriter, no less.
“Hey,” she said.
“Hey,” Michael said. “I thought I was picking up.”
“You are—I just have their weekend bags.”
“Oh, great.”
She handed him two small duffels.
“You’re all dressed up,” she said.
“Had lunch with my mother.”
She nodded. “And how is she?”
“Fine, you know, the same.”
“Uh-huh.”
Standing there, Michael started feeling shy, maybe even scared, as though exposed and in need of burrowing.
Caitlin looked at the school door. “I should go before the girls come out.”
“You can stay.”
“No, just complicates things. At some point we need to talk about summer camp.”
“Yeah, sure.”
“A check is due.”
“O.K.”
“Well,” Caitlin said, rubbing her hands, those old nerves, “have a nice weekend.”
“Same to you.”
Nowadays their goodbyes had the texture of a failed first date fifteen years in the making. Caitlin headed back toward Fifth. “Oh,” she said, turning around, “they had pizza two nights ago, so maybe no pizza. And they had hamburgers last night.”
“O.K., good to know.”
Girl after girl popped through the large front doors, the parents outside pressing closer, their faces giving every girl a bright smile just in case this girl, or this girl, or this girl morphed into their particular girl. Maude and Hannah finally appeared, Maude taller, Hannah skinnier, their twinhood one of the few things they had in common, as if for those nine months in the womb they had negotiated personality traits and physical attributes, had divided between them their lot in life. Michael waved from beyond the scrum; the girls spotted him and came over.
“Hello, hello.” Michael gave them his best cheerful squeeze.
“Daddy!” Hannah said.
“Hey, Dad,” Maude said.
They started walking east, toward the subway on Eighty-sixth Street.
“So, the eternal question—how was school?”
“Fine,” Maude said.
“Do you have a snack?” Hannah asked.
“We’re having dinner soonish,” Michael said.
“What’re we having?”
“Not sure yet. Maybe order in.”
“I have a lot of homework,” Maude told him.
“It’s only Friday.”
“I know, I just have a lot of homework, that’s all.”
“O.K.”
“Can we get a snack?” Hannah asked.
“Not right now. How about when we get to my place?”
“Mom usually has a snack for us.”
“Maybe we can get some ice cream downtown,” Michael countered.
“That’s not exactly a healthy snack,” Maude said.
“Ice cream’s fine,” Hannah said. “Ice cream’s awesome.”
“You know it’s not fine,” Maude said.
“But it’s the beginning of the weekend. We should celebrate.”
“That’s a stupid reason,” Maude said.
“We don’t need a reason for ice cream, right, Dad?”
“We’ll figure something out,” Michael said, already feeling exhausted, and then feeling low for already feeling exhausted, for wishing he were alone again and without responsibility, the weekend ahead mined with the inevitable failures of his brand of fatherhood. Love, in all forms, had turned into a kind of regret. All the things he could have done, the life he could have led, yet here he was, on the corner of Ninety-second and Madison, a self-made buffoon.
“You O.K., Dad?” Maude asked.
“Yeah, fine. Let’s make this light.”
The platform for the express was packed with people, many of them teen-agers laughing and yelling, celebrating their freedom as well as the power of their numbers. Michael took Maude and Hannah by the hand and expertly guided them through this throng, toward the less populated front of the platform, which would position them for the speediest exit from the Fourteenth Street station, just three stops away. This knowledge pleased him.
According to the sign, the 5 train was coming in seven minutes.
“Why can’t we take an Uber?” Hannah said.
“This’ll be faster.” And cheaper, Michael thought.
“But so many people.”
“Shouldn’t be too crowded,” he said. “Bet we even get a seat.”
From down the platform, near the stairs, a different flavor of screaming rose above the adolescent rambunctiousness, screaming that was pitched with throat-scraping fury: “Get the fuck out of my way! God-damned motherfucking people! Yeah, fuck you!” Michael, along with everyone else, glanced in the direction of this growing scene. People were backing up against the platform wall, creating as much room as possible between themselves and the screaming, though a few of the bolder teen-agers heckled by shouting “Hello, Dad,” and “Someone’s feeling cranky.”
“You all think this is fucking funny! Not fucking funny! Not a fucking joke.”
Maude and Hannah gripped Michael harder.
“Don’t worry,” Michael said. “Just a homeless person.”
“Why is he mad?” Hannah asked.
“Because he’s homeless, duh,” Maude said.
“Out of my fucking way! God damn it, fucking move!”
The screaming was getting closer, now revealed as a largish man dressed in a nomadic assortment of salvaged clothes, including a heavy overcoat, which seemed cruel considering the weather. Occasionally, the man stopped and berated a random person—“You think I’m crazy? But I was a child once. So fuck you, I’m allowed to be angry”—then the man moved on, waving his arms, his fists fighting against the rage yet also seeming intrigued by the rage’s undeniable effect on people.
There was hardly any space on the platform for him and his oversized anger, so he was forced to walk along the yellow edge. Michael could see his face clearly now. It was mottled with grime and beard, eyes silvery and bright, as though minted from years of searching the ground for loose change. “I swear, if someone fucking touches me I’ll explode!” At which point the man reeled around, perhaps anticipating this touch coming from behind, which further compromised his already compromised balance, making him stumble to the edge, almost over the edge, arms flailing, an endless beat of near-acrobatic struggle before he finally succumbed to gravity and fell backward into the well of the tracks. He hit the bottom hard. His gasp was multiplied by the witnesses on the platform, the shock quickly followed by panic, both general and specific: people yelling the obvious, that a person had fallen on the tracks, right there, the homeless guy, on the tracks; people cursing as if only “fuck” and “shit” and various combinations of those words could sum up the situation; people rushing for the stairs, unprepared to be present for the potential tragedy and innately understanding the coming commuter hell; people invoking Jesus Christ and the prayers associated with His name; people narrating every detail and in some cases filming the scene with their phones; people commanding unseen people in authority; people imploring the man on the tracks to get up and move, just get up and move; people at the far end of the platform leaning into the tunnel and waving their arms in a desperate semaphore of Halt! and Cease!, though no train was coming, at least not for another four minutes.
“What’s going to happen, Dad?” Maude asked, her voice trying for calm.
“Dad?” Hannah said.
“It’s going to be O.K.,” Michael finally answered. “Just stay here.”
Michael positioned the girls against the platform wall and then pushed through the crowd to where the man had fallen. People were gathered along the edge, some kneeling and reaching down as if this mortal gap could be traversed by desire alone. The dazed man, sprawled on his back, was a strange human presence down among the litter and the puddles, recasting the ordinary into the extraordinary, horrific yet almost holy. He practically glowed on those tracks.
“Come on, buddy, get up!” someone shouted.
“Fuck you!” the man shouted back, not moving.
There was still no evidence of the train in the tunnel.
“C’mon!”
“Fuck you! And fuck you!”
Beyond all the residual excitement, no one was doing anything, everyone waiting around for someone else, anyone else, to step forward. Michael started to wonder if perhaps he was the one who was supposed to do something, him, Michael Salter, his pulse starting to quicken around this vague implication, molding his insides into a smaller, braver person who might take over the larger controls. Michael tested the scenario by going over to the platform’s edge, where he crouched, then eased into sitting, like the strong silent type, dangling his legs over the side, daring the drop, and then just dropping, like that, ta-da but without the applause. The distance down hardly seemed a distance at all, though the change of perspective was peculiar. The uneven intimacy of the tracks. The people transformed into a hundred shoes. The weird kind of non-floating floating.
“Watch the third rail,” from above.
“Try to drag him over here.”
Michael carefully stepped toward the man. “We need to get you up,” he said, surprised by his tone.
“Fuck you.”
Michael reached down but the man batted his hands away.
“We can do this,” Michael insisted in full baritone.
“Get the fuck away from me.”
“I’m trying to help.”
“Don’t want your fucking help.”
Michael squatted and tried slipping his hands under the man’s armpits. Maybe he could lift him up in a burst of unexpected strength, as in those inspirational stories that had fascinated him since childhood, the definition of love and caring, of people under duress being able to lift cars, always cars, never a large homeless person who fought all contact. Oh, and the stench.
“Don’t touch me, cocksucker!”
The man was breathing hard, almost hyperventilating.
“This is not a good place to linger,” Michael said.
“Fuck you and your truth. I’m not moving. I’m comfortable.”
Michael, sweating hard now, stood up, baffled as to his next move.
Like the first time he had to change a tire, a total—
From behind, a shout of “Train!,” the shout echoing along the platform.
Michael turned and was again fascinated, however briefly, by the change of perspective down here, to see those distant lights in the tunnel, without lines or borders, growing larger, coming head on, sharpening, splitting the world in half, then in half again. Michael nodded as if some unanswerable question had been asked.
“There is. A. No. 5. Downtown express. To Flatbush Avenue. Approaching the station. Please step away from the platform edge” came over the loudspeaker.
A slight push of cool, stale air.
A clicking sound along the third rail, like a steel cable being whacked.
Michael turned back toward the man.
“O.K., it’s time,” he said, not quite frightened yet.
“Fuck you and your time.”
The blast of the horn. Again and again.
The vibrating screech of metal on metal.
All these piercing sensations, in curious fragments.
Like those eleventh-hour pleas from the platform.
“Forget him!”
“Better move, dude!”
“Please just stop, please!”
“Come on!”
Screaming and crying, fingers pushing into ears.
Michael leaned in close to the man. “We need to—”
“Go fuck yourself.”
The air pushed into a ghostly breeze. There was the question of what he was doing down here. And with his daughters so close—what might they see? The utter destruction of the Saxony tweed. But at least he was doing something, something bigger than himself and full of possible meaning, courageous—right, this was courageous, rather than stupid, a sign that he was special, or, at a minimum, useful. Michael reached down just as the man reached up and grabbed him by the shoulders, pulling him down, pinning him hard to his chest. Perhaps as a buffer against those splintering wheels. Michael could feel the man’s resigned horror, the hopeless struggle. “We belong dead,” the man muttered. Or Michael might have muttered it. Hard to tell with all the noise, the train braking and stopping with eight feet to spare, the two of them frozen mid-grip, eyes closed, waiting for things that would never come. 

