
Tiny Man
By Sam Shepard
Early morning: They deliver my father’s corpse in the trunk of a ’49 Mercury coupe, dew still heavy on the taillights. His body is wrapped up tight in see-through plastic, head to toe. Flesh-colored rubber bands bind it at the neck, waist, and ankles—mummy style. He’s become very small in the course of things—maybe eight inches tall. In fact, I’m holding him now, in the palm of my hand. I ask them for permission to unwrap his tiny head, just to make sure he’s truly dead. They allow me to do this. They all stand aside, hands clasped behind their tailored backs, heads bowed in a kind of ashamed mourning, but not something you would question them on. It’s smart to keep on their good side. Besides, they seem quite polite and stoic now.
The Mercury idles with a deep, penetrating rumble that I can feel through the soles of both shoes. I remove the rubber bands carefully and uncover his face, peeling the Saran Wrap away from his nose very slowly. It makes a sticky sound, like linoleum coming free from its glue. His mouth opens involuntarily—some delayed response of the nervous system, no doubt, but I take it as a last gasp. I put my thumb inside and feel his rough gums. Little ripples where his teeth used to be. He had no teeth in life, either—the life I remember him in. I rewrap his head in the plastic sheathing, replace the rubber bands, and hand him over, thanking them all with a slight nod, trying to stay in keeping with the solemnity of things. They take him carefully from me and place him back in the dark trunk with the other miniatures. There are shrunken women wedged on either side of him, retaining all their alluring features in perfect detail: high cheekbones, eyebrows plucked, lashes caked with blue mascara, hair washed and coiffed, smelling like ripe sugarcane. His is the only tiny body that faces completely out toward a band of sunlight. When they close the trunk, this band goes to black, as though a cloud had abruptly covered the sun.
They stand in a semicircle facing me now, hands clasped over their groins, casually yet formally. I can’t tell if they’re ex-marines or mobsters. They seem a mixture of both. I salute each one, rotating counterclockwise. I have the impression that some even click their heels, Fascist style, but I may be making this up. I don’t know if this rain just started or if it’s been going on for some time. I watch them drive off in a light drizzle.
That’s about all I can remember. Along with these smattered details is a strange morning grief, but over what I can’t say.
Felicity
In another language, in another time, her name meant “happiness,” I guess. Felicity, I think it was—Felicity—yes, that was it. I’d never heard the name before, like something from an English novel. Very young. Freckle-faced. Red hair. Slightly plump. Adolescent. Always wearing simple cotton dresses that looked homemade. She’d scream like a trapped rabbit when she sat backward on my father’s cock. I’d never heard such ecstasy and horror, all at once. I’d listen from the next room, staring at the ceiling. Something smelled like eucalyptus and Vaseline. They never talked. I’d listen. But they never talked. I’d dare myself to go in there, just go in and appear and don’t say a thing. Just stare like some zombie child—a child who shows up from out of nowhere. What could they do? Stare back. Kick me out? Put on clothes and kick me out? I knew what they were doing. I knew it felt good. I knew it must feel good to be inside another person. Deep inside like that.
I went in and there she was. My father’s girlfriend sitting ramrod straight—naked, almost—as though she were riding a pony backward. Neither of them noticed me. They never turned to see me. She just kept on riding him and screaming recklessly, working her way up and down in a frenzy. He was on his back on a table, staring at the ceiling, his arms folded behind his head, as if he might be taking a siesta or listening to the radio. His lips were moving, but nothing came out. I walked right up next to them, but they never turned to see me. Her pink underwear were on the floor. They looked as though they belonged to an older woman, maybe her mother.
There was a frantic knocking and banging at the door, but neither of them paid any attention. Felicity just kept screaming and pumping away. Sometimes she would lean slightly forward, look down and examine the penetration closely, without passion. Her mouth was open wide and her hair stuck to the sweat on her forehead. The knocking and banging went on. I went to the door and cracked it. I had my jockey shorts and a T-shirt on. It was Mabel Hynes, the landlady, from down the hall. She stood there with a Mexican hairless in the folds of her flabby arms. The dog was silent but kept its ears pricked for each scream. When the scream came, the dog yapped.
“What’s going on in there? Sounds like someone’s getting murdered.”
“No, it’s just my dad.”
“Your dad? What’s he doing?”
“Just having fun. He’s got a friend with him.”
“Fun? Doesn’t sound like fun to me.”
“I’ve never seen her before, actually. This girl.”
“Yeah, well, tell him if he doesn’t find a way to keep the noise down I’m calling the cops.”
“O.K.”
“You tell him that.”
“O.K.”
“I’ve got enough to worry about without his shenanigans.”
“Yes, Ma’am.”
I closed the door and bolted it. Felicity kept on, but now her screams became short little cries for mercy. My father stayed silent. Maybe his lips kept moving. He was always moving his lips as though he were talking to someone invisible. They still didn’t seem to know I was there. I pulled on my jeans and sneaked out the back door, barefoot. 

It was cold when I hit the ground. Just getting to be dawn. Behind our rooming house was a long black rail yard, going off to Stanley and Bingham. It diminished into blinking neon and brakeman’s signals. Men were loading secret metals that someone told me were being sent out to Los Alamos and Alamogordo. The cargo trains were hissing and groaning as they waited. The smells of doughnuts, steam, waffles, and coffee spilled out across the busted-up yard and into the vast dark desert. Speechless men hauled huge, heavy boxes on iron wheels across the gravel. Now and then, one of the forms would emit a nod or a groan, but the world remained enigmatic, shrouded, and unspeakable.
I followed the same rules of geographic orientation as if I were walking alongside a quiet river. On the way out, I would keep the tracks on my left shoulder, and on the way back keep them on my right. As long as I used the tracks to guide me, I’d never get lost. Simple. I followed the long iron snake until the commercial lights of downtown receded to dots. My steps became louder. Lizards and little animals darted away. I tried to keep to the smooth cool sand, but bullthorns and shattered bottles tortured my bare feet. Little soft patches of cooch grass gave me momentary respite, until some thorn or nail punched through and finally I had to retreat. The iron rail still held heat from the day before, and I found myself hopping back to town on the creosoted ties.
Once I’d reëntered the nest of pink-neon-and-green beer ads, I looked for a light in the window of our boardinghouse room. I imagined I saw it from that distance. I imagined I saw my dad frying bacon, but maybe not. Maybe I was making something up. A solid life of uncertainty.
Squad cars surrounded the rooming house. Swirling blue lights. Mrs. Hynes was standing on the front porch surveying the goings-on, with her little dog yapping in her arms and a sweater thrown over her shoulders against the early-morning chill. She had the grim look of someone watching the aftermath of a road accident. Felicity was standing on the sidewalk wearing a sheet, teeth chattering, sobbing, as a female officer tried to keep the top of the sheet closed tightly around her huge breasts. Purple mascara ran down her cheeks. The lady cop escorted her into one of the squad cars, which immediately sped off with its siren wailing. A woman in a long pink coat was yelling at my father, who was in his boxer shorts, smoking a cigarette. A cop stood on either side of him, squeezing on his bare elbows, then handcuffed his wrists behind his back. The woman in the pink coat kept yelling things like “Cocksucker!” and “Bastard!” while the cops placed him in the back seat of another squad car and protected the top of his head from hitting the doorframe. Which I thought was a really strange gesture, since they were already doing severe damage to his character. Now all the police cars sped off with their sirens screaming, following my father as though he’d just shot the President. Mrs. Hynes went back inside with her dog and shut off the porch light. The woman in the long pink coat kept crying and going in little circles, searching through her deep pockets for more crumpled Kleenex. Her lips were moving. She was talking to someone far away. She bent down and took off both of her high heels. She dangled them from one finger as she weaved away from me, down Trace Street.
Opposite Felicity
The thing about Felicity was how opposite she appeared to be in her pure-white cotton dress and tanned legs, black patent-leather pumps and purse to match, how opposite to her naked screaming self I remembered from that other morning, tossing her red hair. Abandonment. Now here she was in a ponytail, just standing, very straightforward, on our front porch with her arms crossed quaintly, purse dangling, asking if my father was home. I told her that he was still at work at the feedlot but she could come in anyway and wait, if she liked. So she did, and I got more and more nervous and shaky as she sat on the edge of a straight-backed wicker chair while I got iced tea from the cooler and poured it into a Mason jar and brought it to her, with the broken ice rattling around and the tea sloshing over the edge. (This was in a different house from the boarding house. Way out in the country, but Felicity had found it somehow, tracked us down.) When I gave her the tea, she put her little black purse on the floor and perched the Mason jar on her knees, then smiled at me with sudden elation.
I got so nervous I had to go outside and walk around for a while. The whole time I was out there I kept imagining her sitting in the wicker chair, all alone with the iced tea balanced on her knees and looking around at our strange new house. New, I mean, to us—different—different things on the wall that didn’t belong to us, cheap prints of muskellunge and logging camps and places that had nothing to do with the place in which we now found ourselves. I missed the black rotating fan in our kitchen as I wound my way through patches of bullthorns, sidestepping old bean cans. The friendliness of its counterclockwise rotation. The sun was really beating down by then, and I kept seeing it all in my head: the little fan blowing wind on the back of Felicity’s neck, wisps of red hair standing straight out. I imagined her just sitting there, with her back to me and the Mason jar shedding water down her legs, condensation running in cold streams down her calves. I thought that maybe what I should do was get up closer to the house and take a peek through the back window and see if she was still sitting there or if she’d maybe stood up and strolled around through the rooms (there were only three), trying to see if she recognized any of our stuff from the boarding house, like Dad’s shaving bowl or my chipped accordion. When I got up close like that to the window, I felt like a spy or someone sneaking around someone else’s house and peeking in to see if there was anything worth stealing. A Peeping Tom. I couldn’t see Felicity at all. The wicker chair was empty. The little black fan was rotating and blowing air through the empty room. I could almost feel the rushes of wind. I sneaked around to the bedroom window and saw her bouncing up and down on my dad’s mattress, plunked flat on the floor. There were no sheets or covers on it, and its dark coffee stains were in sharp contrast to Felicity’s dress. She seemed happy—silently laughing, holding one arm straight up above her head, tipping the Mason jar, tea spilling out over her shoulders and onto the bare mattress. She turned the jar over completely and poured the tea all over her head. She kicked off her black pumps and jumped up and down, then threw the Mason jar at the wall. It didn’t break, just bounced off the Sheetrock and rattled around in the corner. Spinning. She stopped laughing. She stopped jumping and just stood there, staring at the wall. The Mason jar twirled to a standstill. She didn’t move. I didn’t, either. She had no idea I was staring at the back of her wet head. 
Lanterns
I asked Felicity once about my dad. She was there again, waiting for him. Sitting in the wicker chair with her little black purse and her dust-coated pumps. This time in a frilly pink skirt (I guess to look more innocent).
I asked her if she ever actually talked to him, and she told me that he was mostly the silent type. That was one of the things she liked about him, his silence. “Did he ever talk? Or just move his lips?” I asked her.
“Once,” she said. “He talked about disappearing—how everything was disappearing. How there used to be bonfires everywhere, people running with torches. Laughing. The night was full of sparks. Songs. Little children running and screaming with glee. People in love would jump across the snapping flames, hand in hand. Fires would shoot straight up to the stars.”
“When was this?” I asked her.
“The old days, he told me. Back in the old days, before electricity was pulled out of the earth, I suppose. Lanterns lit the unpaved roads.”
Something about her voice hypnotized me, even at that age. Something like a hand softly stroking the top of my head. I’d seen horses put to sleep that way by someone barely rubbing their eyes, their lashes. That’s how it’s done. I thought, What if my father knew what I was thinking? What was going on? What if he knew I had these feelings about her? I didn’t even know what they were yet. These feelings. They were like warm water running down my back.
Someone Else’s Life
One other morning, when Felicity came by with her same little black purse and sat on the same wicker chair, waiting for my dad, who was always at work, I got up the courage to ask her why her face always looked so blank. She told me that she didn’t know what expression to use, because she didn’t understand other people. I asked her why not, and she said that she always had this feeling of living someone else’s life, and that people seemed way outside her somehow. Apart. I asked her who the other person might be, the one living her life for her, and she explained that she didn’t know how she knew, but it was someone her same age and female, but she didn’t know her name. I asked her if she knew what lay up ahead, if she had some idea what her future might hold. She told me no, it wasn’t like that. “Like what?” I asked. It wasn’t as though she could see the future. It wasn’t as though things were laid out and all she had to do was go through with them. It was as though her experiences didn’t belong to her. They belonged to someone else.
I sat there a long time in silence, staring at the floor. Felicity was good at silence. Better than me. She seemed to have no anxiety about what lay up ahead. She could take it or leave it. My fear of her mounted until I leaped up from the couch and tried to make up some excuse to go outside. She didn’t seem the least bit nervous. Nothing had changed in her. She just kept sitting on the wicker chair in the same way she had before, with the patent-leather purse in her lap. I ran outside to the back porch and started tossing all the pails of warm slimy dog water out and refilling them. Just for something to do.
Tiny Man in an Irish Pub
Night: They’re playing darts in an Irish pub. You can see them through the glazed window, leaning toward the target. Three of them this time, still dressed up in their pin-striped suits, fedora hats, and those shoes you always see them wearing in black-and-white movies—pointed—brogans, I guess. With little indented holes or perforations in the pattern. They’re all smoking Luckies and drinking Martinis with green olives and a twist of lemon rind. The ’49 Merc is parked outside, with a fourth guy propped against the trunk, his foot on the bumper, dressed exactly like the others. He’s smoking and shuffling a deck of cards, separating the one-eyed jacks. None of these characters look like actors, but they all seem to be playing a role.
Inside, the other three are laughing and chewing on toothpicks as one of them throws his set of darts at the wall. Each time he throws he leans in, squints his eyes, and makes three little practice strokes with his right arm before releasing. My tiny dead father, still wrapped in plastic, and two of the shrunken women are hung on the target by the necks with pink rubber bands. They bob up and down ever so slightly as the darts zoom past their heads. One dart with red feathers and a golden streamlined point hits my father square in the forehead and sticks. The tiny body spins. He’s already dead, so he doesn’t make a peep. The gangsters are hysterical with laughter as they take sips of their drinks and adjust the bold knots of their ties.
Two more darts are thrown at my father, who is still spinning. They both miss. One grazes his shoulder and clatters to the floor. One guy makes a yellow mark on a chalkboard. The third guy drops a dime in a Wurlitzer. This is about all I can remember.
Boots with Red Flowers
I told Felicity she had to stop coming around like this—why was she always coming around when she knew my dad was at work? I mean, why was she always coming around? She’d just stare at me and smile. She moved the little black purse on her knees. This time she was wearing cutoff bluejeans and boots with red flowers and pistols carved into them. Very Western. She asked me if there was some law against her coming by my place and paying me a visit. She just wanted to see the dogs, anyway, she said. Maybe pick some oranges. Run through the sprinklers. I told her there was no law, it just seemed weird, that’s all. “Weird?” she said. “There’s nothing weird about us being friends.” She considered us friends. I thought that was great, but at the same time I wondered if that was the way my dad would see it. “Friends”? I mean, what did that mean to her? Did that mean that, when I looked at her purse moving around on her knees, that was all I was looking at?
There were times back then when I thought I’d never get out of there alive. I’d have to become a famous golfer or a veterinarian or something like that. I’d have to escape completely. I’d have to take a different name, get a different haircut, wear clothes from a different era. Start listening to music by Tommy Dorsey. I don’t know. What if Felicity decided to track me down? What if my father found out? What if he decided to do me in or have me arrested or something? What if he went completely crazy? Insanity ran in the family, don’t forget. There was some great-great-something—an uncle or a cousin or something—who ran off to live with the Indians back then, had many wives, many children, stopped speaking English altogether, took up astrology, had Cherokee slaves. I don’t know. I didn’t want to wind up like that, that’s for sure. I had to find a way out of there. Completely.
I’d never been with a woman in that way before, especially an older woman, although Felicity was only about fourteen or fifteen at the time. She felt huge. I was lost in her body. Her breasts were immense and heaved like distant ocean waves inside her woman’s bra, which she must have “borrowed” from her mother. The floorboards were rock-hard on my knees. The rag rug had slipped away and I swam on top of her, flailing as though I’d never make it to the other side. She began screaming and making those same noises she’d made with my father the first time. I was sure her voice would carry for at least twenty acres. Over the heads of grazing cattle, frantic lizards. Her eyes were squeezed shut, and she took big fistfuls of my hair. I kept praying that my dad wouldn’t show up in the middle of all this. After days of her waiting for him, he finally shows up in the middle of all this! It was unbearable to imagine! I rode her like a pony, trying to stay on. She slipped away, grabbing me between the legs and shoving me into her. It was an incredible mess. Cum all over the place. She jumped up suddenly, gathered all her clothes, and ran out the front door, half naked, then turned on the porch and ran back in, and got on top of me. I was still stretched out, bewildered. I thought she was going to crush me. The sheer weight of her. Her pelvic bone. I’d thought it was all over, and here she was on me again, except worse—more savage, more huge. Her mouth opened and I saw tiny animals escaping, tiny animals that were trapped inside her all this time. They flew out as though something might catch them and drag them back into imprisonment. I could feel them land on my face and crawl through my hair, searching for a hiding place. Each time she screamed, the animals flew out in small clouds like tiny gnats: little dragons, flying fish, headless horses. They came tumbling out, scratching at one another. The amazing thing was that I stayed hard all this time. Even after ejaculating all over. I was as hard as a stone salute. That must’ve been why she returned.
I avoided my father after that. I could see him at dusk in his rocker, with a glass of whiskey and a glass of milk beside it, picking at the shrapnel scars on the back of his neck and staring at nothing from the front porch. I kept thinking that he somehow knew about me and Felicity. That she’d told him in a moment of panic. That she’d suddenly had a spell of “honesty” and spilled the beans. That that was why he was always staring off into the distance. It made no sense, though, that he hadn’t attacked me right away—as soon as he found out. Why would he wait? He wasn’t a man who carefully calculated his actions. If he kicked me out, where would I end up? [REDACTED]?
These were the kinds of things I thought of as I wandered farther and farther from the house. As it turned to night, I kept a bead on the kitchen light. I stumbled through plow ruts and tried to keep to the very edge of the fields, so as not to disturb seedbeds or crops already heading out. Our sheep heard me coming and bolted off in a burst of gray, away from the wire fence. I saw his bedroom light switch on and knew that he was brushing his teeth, with the glass of whiskey resting on the porcelain sink beside him. It was the same room in which I’d watched Felicity bouncing on the mattress. The same room in which I’d seen her throw the Mason jar. A pure-white owl dived at a field mouse, snagged it, then flapped away into the dark. What would I have asked my father if I’d had the guts? Would I have asked him who he was? Who he pretended to be? Would I have asked him what was on his mind? Had he “seen” something? Had he “seen” her and me? Did he think I might have fooled around with her behind his back? Got her hot and bothered? Caused those red blotches to emerge on her neck and face? Sweating. Caused her to drop her mother’s underwear on the tiled floor? Did he think I might be the one she really loved?
Tiny Man at the Beach
They are at the beach now. Carpinteria or [REDACTED]—very bright and hot. The ’49 Mercury is parked up by the highway, facing the pounding [REDACTED]. All the windows are rolled down and the trunk is wide open. Salty air sweeps through it, blowing sand against the whitewalls, half burying them. None of the miniature corpses are in evidence. Just the car—as though it had been abandoned in haste. No one’s around. Just wind. Wind again. 
Down on the beach, far below the cliffs, the miniatures are all lined up on their backs in the sand, as though taking sunbaths, even though they’re dead. Seagulls circle above them, waiting for the chance to carry one of them off and tear it apart. The gangsters lie in a line right beside the corpses. They, too, look as though they were taking sunbaths, but they’re all still very much alive. Two of them have their shirts off and are applying baby oil to their dark-olive skin. All the gangsters keep their felt fedoras on, and all of them are wearing very expensive dark glasses, fashioned in 4974616c79, with a brand name that I can’t pronounce. None of them wear sunblock. They’re too proud of their Sicilian heritage to display white noses like a bunch of clowns in the circus. They’ve all taken off their brogans and their black silk dress socks. They wiggle their manicured toes in the sand and whistle at young girls strolling by. They call a group of girls over and show them the line of miniature corpses all on their backs. Taking the sun. The girls run away in horror, screaming, covering their noses, although the smell of death is very faint through the Saran Wrap. One of them runs toward the sea as though she were about to vomit. All the gangsters laugh hysterically and slap one another’s high fives so violently that one of them actually thinks he’s broken his wrist. A black waiter shows up in a tuxedo and white gloves, driving an electric golf cart. They all order mojitos, except one, who orders a vodka tonic. The black waiter jumps back on his electric golf cart, after writing down their orders, and heads off toward the clubhouse. You can just make out the roof over a distant ridge, where a group of slender palms are swaying.
Mounds of Their Own Dung
The thing you remember most about feedlots is the smell—the smell, way before seeing the actual cattle, usually Holstein crosses huddled in tight, listless bands on top of mounds of their own dung. You imagine them sensing death—their future as frozen hamburger patties—but I could be giving them a prescience they don’t possess. Mornings in the San Joaquin always carry a mist. Its origins are mysterious, because there is hardly any moisture to speak of. No water, except for the placid irrigation ditches: the giant rainbirds dripping; white transportable plastic pipes at the edge of rows of lettuce. We used to call it Tule Fog when we worked alfalfa, loading trucks with square bales in the summer. That was farther south, though, down around Chino, where there was more green and it actually rained a little.
I put it in my head that I could walk the seventeen miles to the feedlot on the fifth straight day that Felicity showed up and was, again, asking to see my old man, who was never there. I invited her in, as usual, out of the blasting sun, sat her down, as always, on the wicker chair, and poured the usual jar of iced tea for her. She sat exactly the same way she always did—with her back straight and her spine not being supported by the chair at all. She set the little black purse on the floor and balanced the iced tea in the same way—on her knees, which were always pressed together and very tanned. I made up some excuse to go back into the kitchen and sneaked out the back, making sure the screen door didn’t slam behind me. I ran for about a hundred yards, until my lungs ached, then walked in long strides down to Highway 5.
Meadowlarks trilled, then exploded out of a field of barley, landing on mesquite posts. Like Indians at the bus stop, they’d never look you directly in the face. Grasshoppers were everywhere, and bottle flies would go smack into your eyes, as though blind and suicidal. Crews of Japanese field hands were working strawberry patches in straw hats shaped like chocolate drops. A long line of giant blue-gum eucalyptus marked the highway’s shoulder and cast shade out into acres and acres of summer squash.
I started making up in my head what I’d say to my dad when I got there. A sort of little raggedy monologue, as I marched my way toward the blur of occasional cars, on their journey up to [REDACTED] or down to [REDACTED] in a straight line. “She’s really desperate to see you, Pop. She wouldn’t come every day if she wasn’t. I mean, maybe you could just go down to the liquor store and give her a call. Or you could give me a message, maybe, and I’d tell her. Or a note. A note would be even better, wouldn’t it? She’d see you’d signed it and everything. It would almost be like talking to her. Maybe she’d imagine your voice, even. Your face. As though you were actually talking to her. It might—I don’t know, it might ease her mind or it might even make her feel better about you. You know? The whole situation. I think she really likes you. She does. The way she talks about you. I mean, I can’t stand it when she shows up looking for you and you’re not ever there. I don’t know what to do. I don’t. I mean, I don’t know what to do. Sometimes I try to talk to her, but you know I’m not very good at that. I don’t know what to do. I make things up. I do.”
The hike to Coalinga was hot and dusty. I didn’t even attempt hitchhiking. People never stop when they’re going that fast, anyway. Occasionally, some old faggot insurance salesman. You can spot them right away. Driving alone. A bunch of suits and shirts on wire hangers behind him. His red balls hanging out of his fly. I plodded on in the gravel ditch, through disposable diapers, bottle caps, and used condoms. Crows and mockingbirds dotted the fence lines. Some guy in an old Massey Ferguson, trying to be a “lone little farmer” holding out against the “big boys.” Signs about water rights and how the politicians were to blame for the lack of it. White almond trees in full bloom. Boxes of bees pollinating apricots. Now and then a roadside fruit stand selling figs and watermelon. I could hardly wait to get out of this place.
I started thinking about how Felicity might have found us. How come she could have just showed up here in this godforsaken valley. It became clear to me that Felicity was what you call “underage,” “jailbait,” or whatever. Older men used to use that term, “jailbait.” Something illegal like that, or else they’d never have taken him away. The cops. My dad. We’d never have had to move out of that boarding house in the middle of the night the way we did. He’d never have had to take a job at the feedlot. He doesn’t even know how to ride a horse. He just drives a pickup. Up and down the rows of cows, bawling and waiting for alfalfa pellets. Maybe that woman in the long pink coat was Felicity’s mother and she had secretly followed us. I don’t know why. Maybe the two of them have a place here. Somewhere in town. And the mother sends Felicity out here every day. Day after day. Like some kind of bait. “Jailbait”—maybe that’s it. Why isn’t she in school? I wonder. It is summer. Not that her mother gives a hoot in hell about education. I can’t see her grooming Felicity for some fancy girls’ school back [REDACTED] or some Ivy League deal, where they go on to “higher learning.” Not that Felicity would want that kind of thing, anyway. I don’t know.
When I finally reached the feedlot, there was nothing but cattle and dust and a stench that made your eyes water. I couldn’t see another human being. Miles of cattle. Black. Black-and-white. Red. Gray. Spotted. All kinds. All sizes. Flies. Shit. The air seemed as if there might be a war nearby. That was what it felt like.
War and death. Mass graves. Desolation. Pogroms. No human beings. Nothing but the constant sound of cattle bawling, as though their mothers were eternally lost. I saw a pickup truck, miles up one of the alleys. It would stop periodically. A man would get out and dump a bag of feed into the troughs, then run a pitchfork over the top of it as the heads of cattle poked through the pipes and lolled their long slimy white tongues over the green pellets. The man dumped the empty bag and the pitchfork in the back of the pickup, then jumped behind the wheel. He’d go down the alley a few yards, then repeat the same process. I stood there for the longest time, just watching. I had an impulse to wave, but I didn’t. I saw the truck getting closer and closer, but I somehow knew the driver didn’t see me. I was sure it was my father. Who else would it be? I turned and walked away, all seventeen miles back to the house. When I got there, Felicity was gone.
A Grimace Is not a Scream
Why or how he was shrunken in those various dreams and apparitions is beyond me. Whether he shrank before or after his death on this earth was another question I had. Before his death—this is going back to ’68 or ’69—I’d say he’d already shrunk some around the shoulders and neck, but that was in accordance with the natural aging process. I mean, that’s what they always say about the aged, don’t they? “He was once much taller, until that horse fell on him,” or “He was once much fatter, until that woman who couldn’t cook showed up,” or “He was once much wider, until the river breached its banks.” No matter. People will talk. It could also be that I’m dreaming him like that—tiny—because it’s a way of distancing myself, but that’s a bit Freudian, don’t you think? As though there were some kind of intelligence driving all this—the subconscious or some bullshit like that. Something I find hard to believe in. Why would I want to be distanced, anyway? There’s nothing I’m still afraid of. At least, not from him, my father. Maybe it’s his pain—his suffering. But why be afraid of his suffering? That’s what I’d like to know. What’s in it? For me, I mean. Hard to say what it was for him. Suffering, I mean. When you watch someone grimace or wince, what do you think he’s feeling? It’s certainly not a thing of pleasure that pops into your mind, or happiness, either. Neither of those. I mean, I suppose a grimace or a wince can mean anything, up to a point, but do you necessarily have the wherewithal to really feel what the grimacer or wincer feels? Be that as it may. To be afraid of the sufferer’s suffering is what I’m trying to consider. Is it even possible? Afraid of what? That the suffering might come over to you? As though it were there already, and watching the sufferer suffer only broke open what was already lying dormant but rarely released. Or is it the impossibility of ever knowing? One thing’s for certain: a grimace is not a scream and a wince is not a cry of anguish. But a miniaturization only causes you to look closer.
Felicity vanished. My dad walked the highway at night. Said he couldn’t sleep, but I know it was more about looking for her, hoping she’d show up. He hardly ever talked about it. In fact, he hardly ever talked period, just picked at the scars on the back of his neck and stared at the fire. Every once in a while, he’d hear a change in the dogs and leap up from his chair and go rushing outside. The screen door slammed behind him as he stared out into the night and the dogs gathered around his knees, knocking their tails against the side of the porch. Hens clucked and fluffed their feathers from the shed, where the tractors were parked, and a cat scampered across the beam of orange night light cast from the creosote pole. He asked me again about the last time I’d seen her, and I told him it was the time I went out to find him at the feedlot. He couldn’t remember that time, and I told him that that was because I never actually talked to him, he looked so busy. “I’m never busy,” he said, then he turned to the fire again and gave the log a little kick. Sparks flew into the room and lit up the wicker chair where Felicity always sat, waiting. For a second, I thought I saw her, but I was only dreaming. Sometimes it was like that out there at night, completely alone. Not even a neighbor’s barn light. Just the two of us and the dogs.
I thought about Felicity—where she might have gone. Maybe she hadn’t gone at all but just got bored with waiting around. Boredom was a real event in those days. What’s going to happen? That was the question. What’s going to happen. 

