Back the Way You Went
By Anne Carson
Garland
Because she has a broken heart and then her mother dies, D and F take her with them on a weekend getaway. The getaway place is a honeycomb. Bees stream through the streets and the night. Bees huddling, zooming, gleaming and anxious, bees rolling along like sailors, bees licking the barley out of one another’s beards. D and F are bees, too, and go ahead to guide her on the stream. The stream is drunk. They stumble to their rented house. I’ll be fine, she thinks.
Next day they rent bikes. D and F swoop off down the bike path. She pumps hard, grinds to a halt on a dune, bruises her leg, starts again. This happens forty-five times. I haven’t ridden a bike since I was ten, she explains to no one. Sweat drips down both sides of her nose. Even then Dad gave up on me. Two days down, she thinks.
On the porch in the morning, a feral cat dozes by the picnic table while D eats muesli and reads aloud from Men’s Muscle. Please may I have another, sir (protein supplement). Photos of men who have transferred the insides of their bodies to the outside by pulling on chains while lightning comes from their heads. Others heft anvils in white shirts and ties. As one reads Gogol (Nabokov observed), one’s eyes become “gogolized”—people passionate about overcoats begin to appear in towns that never knew cold or snow. Will I perhaps see mega pec cables romping the rosy lanes of the honeycomb today? she wonders.
To pass the time, she eavesdrops (café). Are you tempted? I’ve always been tempted. Well, so, should I? Can’t we just be free and like this? I think it’s crazy unless you’re really, really. And you see if I lost, then I’d be. I didn’t know you felt that way or I would’ve said thanks, but. It’s a difficult situation now. Remember, we didn’t even recognize the ice-skater. Oh, I know. A fantasy is not a person. But I miss it like a person. And then the day ends with a churningly stupid argument between D and F in the front courtyard of a restaurant. She has a chunk of seared tuna stuck in her throat the whole time. You want me to be someone else. I want you to be nothing. That’s metaphysically impossible. Oh, go away.
Years later, when they are no longer together, she wonders what it was like for D and F to be thugging her around behind them like an extra leg, up and down the bright boardwalks, in and out of dark shops, where they tried on outfits and she wept, past terraces and bars and hooting and sexpools and other people’s flyoff protocols. She’d returned to the rented house caked with filthy honey and lain on her back on the camp bed.
At the beach (last day), she looks down and thinks, I have my mother’s toes. She is reading only books written by people named Margaret, so as to feel close to her. Not too close. Her poor toes. In therapy (try to remember the good times), she’d come up with the one about the two of them going to the beach with no brakes on the car, her mother saying as they backed out of the driveway, Well, it’s downhill to the water and then we’ll see, and so they had. How they got home again she can’t recall. They never told her father or brother about going to the beach. They tucked it away like a garland at the back of a closet, to glance at once in a while when rearranging the stuff at the front.
[REDACTED]
It’s not as if they were harmless. To each other.
Two people so wired together can do harm even with the best intentions. Or no intentions at all.
It was a small house and, now that Dad had “gone to the home,” radiant with silence. At night, they sat in separate rooms, reading, not reading. On Sundays, they called a taxi and went to see Dad. (Neither of them drove. Dad used to drive.) Who Dad thought they were was unclear. He didn’t mind visits. The older woman brought grapes and the younger one smiled idiotically. They sat with him in the cafeteria, moving the dishes under his gaze one by one as he ate. He didn’t look up. Afterward, they bustled around his room uselessly. It was a room shared with a man who did not close his eyes, ever. The eyelids were dysfunctional. He said he was getting used to it. He said the doctors were afraid to meddle, in case his eyelids chose to close instead.
 
Both women wondered about talking. To each other. Why not now, while there is time? But they didn’t. The questions she asks me are all alternative questions—no matter what I answer, I’m always half wrong, the younger one thought (that was one excuse). Stars do not meet—they would explode (was another). The situation drew this sort of dramatics from her, which she confided to a notebook and winced at years later. If conversation made itself seem necessary, their practice was to sense what the other one wanted to hear and say that. If her mother tried offhandedness (get myself some Nembutal, finish us both off), the daughter smiled tightly and hurried on with dinner. Once in a while they had a really good laugh. The locked corridor where Dad lived was officially Our Golden Mile, in stick-on italic letters over the registration desk, but her mother called it the Last Lap, and although this was funny enough to tell other people on the phone at night, the daughter made no comment to her mother. She did not thank her. They laughed and stopped, abyss at their feet. It would be hard to describe, or, in later years, believe, how heavy was the weight of every single word in those days. To gather enough for a sentence meant finding the strength of a hero of ancient mythology, some Heracles or Theseus, who built the walls of Troy from Cyclopean stones, each one bigger than ten normal men could lift nowadays. Her mother was a fan of space travel and liked the idea of dying on [REDACTED]. They talked a bit about this, now and then, when there were rockets blowing up on the news, but it led to the dark.
What would they have seen if they’d gazed into each other’s depths? But they didn’t. Even when doing a task together, shucking corn, washing him, they looked away. Lack of astonishment lay between them, slablike, erasing something every time it appeared. To be properly (kill the father!) astonished or astonishable happens more in plays than in life.
Anyway, one Sunday they were coming back from a visit to Dad, just rounding the corner from the highway onto their own road, a grayish-brown November day. The taxi turned onto the gravel section. There were some grayish-brown grasses poking up for light from a smear of raw grayish-brown snow—she could see them in her mind years later—some thin, unbeautiful trees, a black ditch. Cracking the window let in smells of root, ash, needle, cold. It was only halfway through the afternoon, but light and life seemed to be leaking out of the day on either side. The visit had been no worse or better than other visits, but, as she sat there watching a polished Dad skull wobble atop some clothes she mostly recognized, her insides had gone bleak and dangerous. Now the taxi veered left, past the graveyard, past the old abandoned schoolhouse where Dad had once hung his small cap on a peg, past the break in the trees where you could start to see the lake. Her mother, in the front seat, was chatting with the taxi-driver (Clayton) about his arthritis, or his wife’s arthritis, or [REDACTED]. His wife had worse arthritis than he did and would develop the knack of driving with her knuckles when Clayton died suddenly, just after Christmas.
In the back seat, she stared out the window, trying not to listen to the front seat, keeping her thought on stray things—supper, numbers, Christmas, an art work she heard about once, called something like “Horses Endlessly Running.” Had she dreamed this? No. Imagined it? Maybe. Was it in [REDACTED]? Yes, it was [REDACTED]! A miniature chessboard, and all the pieces were knights. And [REDACTED] came to her like an alteration of death to day, just the word, just the thought, the little hooves drumming their way across the two-inch board, the small hearts storming in the small hot breasts, the tiny forelocks and fetlocks and withers bright with the dew of a small-scale Mexican dawn. Life ran back into her from all directions, like a color, and she leaned her forehead against the icy window, suddenly imagining telling her mother about this at supper. It was a thing outside them, gallant and bellicose and clear—she wouldn’t use fancy words like that, but some words, other words, would show up. It was worth a try. Don’t come back the way you went, Dad used to say when they went for a Sunday drive. Come a new way.
Trouble in Paradise
My mother-in-law is four feet nine. Embracing her, I feel big, bestial, slightly disloyal; my own mother, now deceased, was also small. Otherwise they are not alike, except for an opinion that I dress badly and am emotionally obscure, which they would have shared. That I ought to be taken somewhere to “shop for clothes” is a hovering threat. Tonight my mother-in-law and I are doing the dishes. It is Christmas night. We are in [REDACTED]. Her name is [REDACTED]. She washes, I dry. The dishtowel, my last year’s Christmas gift to her, is printed with cartoon cameos of Bloomsbury celebrities. [REDACTED] is telling stories about Mildred, her best friend, who died. Mildred taught me everything I know, she says. Mildred taught me how to entertain. I am half-listening, thinking back to drying dishes for my own mother. I recall silence, distemper, and impotence on my part. I really wanted to talk to her, or hear her talk to me. All the same, I stood beside her at the sink night after night, year after year, in a blaze of shame lest she ask me an inside question or blurt out some entrail of her own. Fear of entrails governed us. We both had neurotic bowels. And a kind of continuing unfounded rage. So when I say “wanted to talk” it’s not quite true. I never wanted it at the time. I wanted it before, I wanted it after, I want it now, I never wanted it at the time. At the time was always the wrong time, and I was in a rage. Are other families like this? I know I’m setting the bar high, but I cannot imagine it was ever the wrong time to talk in, say, Bloomsbury. But then here is Virginia Woolf (from “A Sketch of the Past”):
We are sealed vessels aﬂoat upon what it is convenient to call reality; at some moments, without a reason, without an eﬀort, the sealing matter cracks; in ﬂoods reality. . . .
Was it Virginia Woolf who taught us to adore these floods of reality, without which we merely navigate a sea of convenience with other people? But here it is Christmas night in [REDACTED] and a crack is beginning to show. I stand by my mother-in-law with a soggy dishtowel in hand, pondering the holiness of conversation. She is talking about her last glimpse of Mildred. A hospital room. Mildred, laid low by one of those cancers which kill you in a weekend, can no longer eat, is sucking on a piece of ice, has a tube up her nose, and when [REDACTED] leans over the bed to ask if there’s anything she can do, Mildred shoots her a look, moves the tube aside, and says, [REDACTED], I’d give the world right now for one of your Martinis. The next day, Mildred is dead. My dishtowel by now a saturated oblong, I fold it in three, hoping for a new dry corner. So when did Mildred pass away? I ask, and [REDACTED] says, 1965. What is a mortal being? A wind, a dream, a shadow, the ancient Greek poets tell us, but I don’t say this to [REDACTED]. I merely repeat, 1965!, in disbelief.
From the other room comes the sound of TV. It’s a Christmas special about war—they’re interviewing a soldier from some Army, I think Israeli, whose assignment is to show up at sites where a woman or a child has been killed and plant weapons on the body. I wring out my towel. Everything I want from a mother is entrail-exhausting, rage-flooded, shocked-alive, and structured like a shriek. All I have the courage to ask of her is this convenience. We wipe down the counter. We hang up towel and sponge. When I was little I understood the world to be made of paper, and that everyone should step carefully or go through the paper. I wanted a notation for that, for the going-through. I thought, I still think, this notation is stored somewhere, above us in a sort of mist or secret layer. I never realized [REDACTED] had been carrying the ghost of Mildred at the front of her mind for fifty years, like impossible antlers. The judgments we bring to bear on one another are not very sound, are they? Now [REDACTED] is scrubbing at spots on the stove with the hem of her apron. Come on, let’s watch TV, I say. I brought a movie. It’s Lubitsch—you’ll like it. 

