A Short History of Zaka the Zulu
By Petina Gappah
He was always a bit of an odd fish, Zaka the Zulu, but he was the last boy any of us expected to be accused of murder. Not a wit, a sportsman, or a clown, he was not a popular boy at our school, where he wore his school uniform every day of the week, even on Sundays. Of course, we could have admired him for his brains. In the high-achieving hothouse that was the College of Loyola, which won the Secretary’s Bell Award fifteen years in a row, we admired any boy we labelled a razor. Zaka, though, made such a song and dance about his sharpness that you’d have thought he was the only razor in the school.
He became even less popular when he was made head prefect. In a school like Loyola, where the task of keeping everyday order is entrusted to the prefects, being head can bring out the tyrant in even the nicest chap, and Zaka brought to the position an obnoxious self-importance that made him absolutely insufferable. As head prefect, he issued demerits for the slightest offenses, marking down boys who did not wear ties with their khaki shirts at Benediction, making spot checks for perishable goods in our tuck boxes and trunks, sniffing for beer on the breath of every boy who had snuck out to Donhodzo, the rural bottle store in the valley below our school, and, from the strategically placed Prefects’ Room, making forays at unexpected times to see if he could catch anyone smoking outside the library.
It seemed to us that he would not be happy until he had taken away all our pleasures. We were sure that it was Zaka who suggested to Father Rector that the Middle and Junior House boys should have an extra period of prep on Friday afternoons. He wanted us out of the way when the Institute of the Blessed Virgin Mary girls, whom we called Mary Wards, took their weekly swim.
The swimming pool was set in a quadrangle, with the Junior House common room at one end and, at the other, the Middle and Senior House dormitories. From the vantage points offered by the common room’s high windows and the dormitories’ balconies, the whole school could have a good view of the swimming Mary Wards. They were sylphs in our eyes, every single one of them, from the fattest to the thinnest, not because they were particularly beautiful but because they were the only girls we saw on a daily basis. Imagine four hundred boys with raging hormones, locked away for three months at a time at a boarding school deep in rural Mashonaland, and you will understand that even our choirmaster’s wife, who had more hair on her chin than her husband did, was—to some of us, anyway—a vision of beauty.
There were forty Mary Wards in any one year. They came to the school at A-level, but lived separately, at Mary Ward House, under the authority of Sister Hedwig and the Sisters of Loreto. The presence of the Mary Wards was considered necessary to tame the older boys. The Fathers’ thinking was that the boys should get used to seeing and being around girls so that no boy would go demented at the sight of a breast or a bare leg in the outside world. In return for their civilizing influence, the girls got the best Jesuit education that the country could offer. They were also—even the plainest among them—guaranteed to have at least one besotted boyfriend in their lifetime.
Only the Senior House boys, who took A-level classes with the Mary Wards, got close to them—and even touched them. For an hour every week, at the Social Dance after Mass and Sunday breakfast, with the smiling approval of Father Rector and Sister Hedwig, the seniors and the Mary Wards waltzed, mamboed, and cha-cha-cha’d to scratchy records on a gramophone. When we heard Dobie Gray longing plaintively for the freedom from his chains, we knew that some lucky senior had a Mary Ward in his undeserving clutches for the three and a half minutes that the song lasted.
As for the rest of us, we watched them as they moved in small groups, neat and trim in their white blouses and gray skirts above shining legs. We strained to hear their voices over the drums and rattles at Mass and to catch their perfume through the incense at Benediction. Only their weekly swimming lesson allowed us to see them at something approaching close range, and with nothing but a layer of thin, wet Lycra hiding the best things about them from our eager eyes.
Watching the girls swim was one of the few activities that brought together the Junior and Middle Houses. For the hour that we watched the Marys crawling, butterflying, back- and breaststroking, we were of one mind. The juniors jostled on the benches in their common room, pushing and shoving and whistling, while, on our balconies in Middle House, we clutched our crotches in mock agony. We paid no regard to Brother Peter, our housemaster, who lectured that, for our own good, we had to sublimate the fleshly wants of our bodies to the superior governance of our minds. Recovery from the state of stimulation could cause such permanent damage, he said, that it was always to be avoided, unless there was the possibility of consummating the act. But this could happen only, he stressed, within the sacrament of a fully blessed Catholic marriage.

The senior boys were abject hypocrites. They’d pretend to be strolling to their balcony solely in order to admire the view of the distant kopje or to hang up clothes, which, curiously, only ever seemed to want hanging up during the Mary Wards’ swimming hour. The best view of the pool was from the Prefects’ Room—you could see almost every pore from there—but the prefects, rare beings in their cream blazers, their sleeves striped with sporting colors and academic honors, pretended to be too sophisticated to watch. They made it a point of honor not to go into their room when the Marys were swimming.
The rumor, at the time of the Swimming Decree, was that Zaka had become the boyfriend of the curviest of the Mary Wards and had instituted the ban because he did not want the junior boys to see her in her glistening glory. This turned out to be untrue. The curvy Mary Ward had the good taste to involve herself with a different senior. The ban was, as a consequence, attributed to Zaka’s general joylessness.
We boys may have disliked Zaka, but Father Rector and the other Fathers considered the doctrine of Zakal infallibility almost as important as the Papal one. They approved of him as a model for us all, particularly when it came to spiritual life. He took seriously the Jesuit philosophy that even the most mundane tasks we do are for the greater glory of God. He wrote “AMDG,” for Ad maiorem Dei gloriam, in the upper right-hand corner of all his notebooks. He was one of only a handful of boys to attend compulsory Mass on Sundays and voluntary Benediction on Thursdays.
In the two years before he became a prefect, when he could have been a hooligan denizen of Middle House, like his form-mates, he was an altar boy. He was even more solemn than Father Rector as he swung the thurible to waft the incense over us at Benediction and rang the bell at the Elevation of the Host. We knew better than to stand in line behind him at confession, because it took him at least twenty minutes to confess, although he did not break a single school rule in the six years that he was at Loyola.
The only thing he truly enjoyed, the only thing he engaged in with anything approaching passion, was chess. On the evenings that he chose not to be in the Prefects’ Room or swooping down on boys smoking outside the library, he would sit in the main common room, frowning over a chessboard with a headless queen and two missing pawns, which had been replaced with fifty-cent coins. He became so good that there were only two people in the entire school who could give him any sort of challenge—Father Rector himself and a small junior with a photographic memory, who had been burdened at birth with the unfortunate name Kissmore Mateko. Mercifully, he lost his natal name and was forever after known as Kasparov.
Aside from chess, Zaka pursued only those things that directly related to his academic success and his spiritual purity. He played sports because he had to. He even begrudged the books that he had to read for English-literature class. He saw them as frivolous, unworthy of his attention. “Such petty things as novels, plays, and poetry,” he said, in his thick Karanga accent, “are a pointless waste of time for those of us who have aspirations to higher, scientific ambitions.”
From that accent came our nickname for him. We called him Zaka, after the district in Masvingo Province. We could have just called him Masvingo, but that name had already been allocated. Or we could have called him Gutu, which was where he was actually from in Masvingo, but, as his real name was Zacharias, we thought it rather clever to pun on it in this way. Then, when a group of Form Twos had a history lesson on Shaka Zulu’s cruelty to his subjects in the same week that Zaka not only banned us from watching the girls swim but also made the Junior House boys clean every toilet in the school because he had caught two of them measuring their erections with the blackboard ruler, they added “the Zulu” to his name. The moniker met with the approbation of the whole school.
If he knew that he was universally loathed, Zaka did not show it. Having achieved A’s for his O-levels, with the slight blemish of a B in English literature, Zaka had chosen for his A-levels the killer combination of maths, physics, and chemistry. As expected, he got fifteen points, a perfect score, at the end of the school year, clearing his path to reading engineering at university and to a secure and certain future.
So you can imagine our surprise when we heard that he had not only flunked out of his first year of university but taken up a job as a temporary maths teacher at St. Peter, the poorly resourced, upper-top secondary school in the valley. And you can imagine our even greater shock when we read, fifteen years later, that he had been accused and found guilty of murdering Nicodemus, the boy who had been his best friend at school.
The friendship between Zaka and Nicodemus was unusual because Nicodemus was two years younger and in Middle House when Zaka was a senior. It was not uncommon for a Senior House boy to make something of a pet of a boy in Junior House, or for a junior to follow a senior about in worshipful admiration, as Kasparov did with Zaka, but there was a long-standing enmity between the Middle and Senior Houses.
Caught between the bottom and top ends of the school, the middle boys were disliked by juniors and seniors alike. The juniors hated us because, not to put too fine a point on it, we bullied them. We hated the seniors because when we were in Junior House and they in Middle House they had bullied us. We hated them, they hated us right back, and so rolled the endless cycle of age-based enmity that was as old as Loyola.
We had other reasons for despising the seniors. With their crisp white shirts and their knives and forks in the proper hands, they were too superior for anything. It was not uncommon for a Middle House boy to declare, with blithe insouciance, that, as he had swum three or four days before, there was no need for him to take a shower at all that week. So we found their fastidiousness about hygiene irritating. They did utterly pretentious things like splash eau de cologne on letters to girls. The school letter bag reeked of Drakkar Noir and Old Spice.
And we envied their easy access to the Mary Wards. In the year that Zaka was head prefect, relations were particularly strained. A top razor named Innocent Zvarevashe, whom we called Zed, had made history by becoming the first Middle House boy ever to be the boyfriend of a Mary Ward. The Mary Ward in question, Hester, was brilliant. Not only was she the first girl to join the Maths Olympiad but she also beat all the boys that year, and took her A-levels a year early. She was far from being the prettiest of the Mary Wards—she had stick-thin legs and large round glasses and wore her hair in what were then called standing buns, pointy antennae that made her look as if she were perpetually waiting to receive alien signals—but she was a Mary Ward, all the same. Because of her hair, the juniors called her Ripley, after the main character in the film “Alien.”
On the bus to and from that year’s Maths Olympiad, Zed and Ripley had bonded over a shared passion for polynomial equations and the X-Men. Before long, Zed found himself the only khaki-clad boy in the sea of white shirts at See Me time. He began to develop annoying senior habits like washing daily. We had to stage an intervention when we caught him about to wear his Sunday best to Benediction on a Thursday. But, for the most part, we encouraged him in his conquest because it made the seniors feel aggrieved. They saw the Mary Wards as their rightful property and resented this usurpation. Under these circumstances, a middle boy and a senior boy were as likely to embrace in friendship as Dingane’s troops and the Boers were to have a dinner party on the banks of Blood River.
The friendship between Zaka and Nicodemus started on Division Night. Or perhaps it had begun before, but that night was the first that we had any inkling of it. To try to overcome the age allegiances that the Houses created, Loyola was split into four divisions, with a hundred boys and ten Marys in each. The divisions were named after four of the Ugandan martyrs: Kaggwa, Kizito, Lwanga, and Mukasa. In these groupings, we competed for the Division Cup; everything we did could earn—or fail to earn—us points, though only the juniors, seniors, and Marys took this competition seriously. In Middle House, we earned so many demerits that any points we won were cancelled out.
Zaka’s division, Mukasa, had won the Division Cup and thus the right to the best food on Division Night. In addition to sadza and beans and rice and chicken, they had pork pies and corned beef, cake jelly and custard. It was every schoolboy’s idea of a feast. Zaka ate none of it. Instead, he piled all his food onto two plates, scraped back his chair, and marched over to Nicodemus, who was sitting at the Kaggwa table.
“Here,” he said, and held out the food.
Nicodemus took the overflowing plates, grinned, and said, “Thanks, Zaka.”
There was a collective gasp.
Zaka knew that all the junior and middle boys called him by this name, but we never used it to his face. It was not uncommon, when he passed whole groups of us in the corridor, for us to mutter a sibilant chorus of “ZakaZuluZakaZuluZakaZakaZakaZakaZulu,” which died down the moment he whipped around to find us wearing innocent faces. Normally, if a boy was as disrespectful as Nicodemus had been, any senior, even one who was not head prefect as Zaka was, would have been well within his rights to issue a demerit or order some other punishment on the spot.
The boys at Kaggwa, and across at Lwanga and Kizito, watched to see what Zaka would do. He looked down at Nicodemus, as though to say something. Then he nodded, turned, and walked back to Mukasa. He blew the whistle for the prayer, and the chatter died down. He remained seated at his table after we had all left.
Later that night, some boys who had sneaked out to smoke behind the library said they heard him sobbing from inside the Prefects’ Room. No one could quite believe it. Whichever way you looked at it, sobbing and Zaka the Zulu did not belong in the same thought. In any event, that moment on Division Night, when Nicodemus called Zaka by his nickname, was the beginning of their friendship. After that, they were almost always seen together.
They were an unlikely pair. Nicodemus was not the kind of fellow who inspired intimacy. Without quite knowing why, we kept him at arm’s length. There was a boy in Middle House whom we admiringly called Tsar Liberator, because he was not only the best endowed of us but he could ejaculate the farthest in any ejaculation competition. Nicodemus claimed that he was just as well endowed and wanted to be called Mamba. Every school has its protocol when it comes to nicknames. Ours was that you did not choose your own: you waited for one to be given to you. Nicodemus was one of the few boys we always called by his Christian name.
He had had brief notoriety earlier that year, because the only other boy he’d been close to, a volleyball setter called Takura Gumbo, who had also been in Middle House, had killed himself. Gumbo had been at the school for only half a term before he withdrew. The suicide had happened away from the school. We had subjected Nicodemus to some questioning at the time, but eventually we discovered that the reason for the suicide was unconnected to the school. Gumbo had tried to forge his stepmother’s signature on a check. When she threatened to report it to the police, he killed himself.
Nicodemus was one of the razors in Middle House, always near the top of his form. He was at Loyola on a scholarship. He came from a family with many other children but only one income. Loyola was given to what you might call Spartan conditions, and most of us relied on the food our families brought on Visiting Sundays to supplement what the school provided. Zaka’s family began to bring groceries for Nicodemus, too. Still, we thought he was taking things a bit far when he joined Zaka’s mother and sisters as they leapt, ululated, and danced around Zaka when he won the Maths Award and the St. Ignatius Award for Services to Loyola.
What surprised us the most about this friendship was that only Nicodemus seemed happy in it. Zaka seemed to shrink into himself whenever they were together. As the boys got closer, the other Middle House boys began to grumble that Zaka gave Nicodemus privileges that were denied to them. On at least three occasions, Nicodemus was seen watching the Mary Wards swimming from the Prefects’ Room. He was even seen smoking in there. When another prefect reported the matter to Zaka, Zaka did nothing about it.
Nicodemus’s friendship with Zaka gave him a sort of talismanic power. We began to include him in our planning for that year’s big mission, Operation Cashel Valley, a raid on the orchard kept by the Loreto Sisters. The previous year had seen the successful completion of Operation Zinjanthropus, in which we had lifted Bibiana, the school’s pet chimpanzee, out of her cage and left her to spend an afternoon making merry hell in the Prefects’ Room.
On the night of Operation Cashel Valley, we snuck through the wild area the Marys called kumapori. It was just bad luck that Sister Hedwig came out early and shouted that she could see us. We tried to scramble back over the fence, but the more clumsy of us got stuck on the barbed wire.
When we refused to say who had been part of the operation, Father Rector ordered Zaka to do a search of Middle House. We had taken the precaution of hiding the fruit in Nicodemus’s locker, and, sure enough, when Zaka reached it he simply moved to the next without opening it. That Sunday, he was in the confessional even longer than usual.
When Zaka went up to university, we ourselves went up from Middle to Senior House. We were now the white-shirted. We had our very own Marys, and found ourselves as protective of them as the seniors before us had been of theirs. We sent them letters drenched in cologne.
Nicodemus did not go up with us. We heard in the first week of the new year that he had transferred to a government day school in Mount Pleasant. As the university was also in Mount Pleasant, someone joked about his having followed Zaka, but we thought nothing of it then. Even if they had chanced to meet in Mount Pleasant, they would not have been neighbors for long. Before the end of the year, the news came that Zaka had been asked to retake all his subjects. It surprised us that the university gave failing students this sort of second chance. It surprised us even more that Zaka would need it. The next thing we heard, he was teaching maths in the valley, at St. Peter.
We saw him during exam week, when we took a break from the stress of it all with a beer or two at Donhodzo. Zaka was with a group of village men who were drinking from a shared calabash of beer as they played draughts. When he saw us, he shot up, looking pleased and mortified at the same time.
He was wearing his old uniform. There is only one word to describe its state—well, maybe three: kutindivara, kusauka, faded. The white shirt looked as though it had been washed many times over in dirty water and dried in the dust. The black trousers were shiny from over-ironing. His shrivelled tie hung from his neck like a curse. He licked his lips and, not meeting our eyes, said, “Yes, yes, I am here now. How is everything at the school?”
Our eyes followed his to the rooftops of Loyola on the neighboring hill, red against the November sky. After we had answered him, someone asked about Nicodemus.
Zaka said, “Oh, Nicodemus. Fine, fine. Yes, yes.”
An awkward silence followed. Then Zaka burst into speech.
How was Father Rector? Was he still studying the organisms that lived inside figs? Had he managed to beat Kasparov yet? How was Bibiana? Who had won the St. Ignatius Award? Had we defended the school’s National High School Quiz title? How had we done at the Maths Olympiad? Who was head prefect?
We told him what we could: that the Entomological Society of Southern Africa had named some new organisms in Father Rector’s honor, that Bibiana had escaped and been found outside Mary Ward House, and that we had lost the Quiz but won the Olympiad. When we told him who the head prefect was, he made a moue of disapproval.
The conversation trailed off. He sat back down with his companions. We moved away. It was strange to be drinking a few metres from him and to recognize in this diminished Zaka our old head prefect. Though he kept glancing our way, he did not join us again.
The whole school saw him a few weeks after that, when he walked in to Mass during the Profession of Faith. He left before the recessional. We watched him as we emptied out of the chapel, a small figure in his faded uniform, walking down the hill to the valley below, his shadow long behind him. That was the last time that any of us saw him. He remained at St. Peter for only one more year. After that, he vanished. Then he appeared in the newspapers, accused of murder and looking as guilty as anyone does in a mug shot.
Over the years, our memories of Zaka’s many irritations had softened and acquired the out-of-focus fondness of remembrance. First on the Alumni Forum of the school Web site, then, as technology advanced, on the Loyola page on Myspace, then on Facebook, shared recollections of the time that Zaka had banned one thing or another would be followed by a flood of “remember when”s.
We were everywhere, home and abroad, displaced by ambition and by the shrinking hopes of our own nation, but on the Internet we gathered to relive the dappled, sunlit days of boyhood. Zaka himself never chimed in on these discussions. There were occasional Zaka sightings, both at home and out in the diaspora, where Old Loyolans had spread. An old boy based in [REDACTED] said that he had seen someone who looked like Zaka ducking into a train at Paddington station. There was a Zaka sighting in [REDACTED], and another in Auckland. The most likely seemed to be one closer to home, in Zaka’s village. An old boy who was a doctor at Gutu District Hospital said that he had seen a Zaka-like figure waiting to receive treatment. When the doctor approached to confirm his name, the man walked away. The old boy wasn’t sure that it had really been him.
By the time we all met again, for the College Diamond Jubilee, Nicodemus was dead and Zaka was in prison, awaiting death by hanging for having strangled him. Under the marquee that had been set up in the second sports field, old boy after old boy came forward to shake hands with Father Rector and slap one another on the back in fat-handed congratulation. We had reason to be pleased with ourselves. Our families had given us to the Jesuits as boys, and now, as men in the world, we had achieved what our Founding Saint had commanded: we had set the world on fire. We had not done it in the sense that he, that soldier philosopher, had meant—we were not soldiers of God beneath the banner of Christ—but we had, all the same, placed our school at the heart of national life.
Among us were six members of parliament, ten judges, including the Chief Justice, enough lawyers to start a hundred class actions, enough doctors to staff ten district hospitals, and enough engineers, architects, and quantity surveyors to transform one of our many growth points into a small city. Almost every boy had slotted perfectly into his predestined place.
Except Zaka and Nicodemus. We talked about them as the afternoon crept over Loyola. We asked the same question that had been asked in court: why had Zaka done it? An old boy who was a judge told us that he had followed the trial when it came before his colleague, Justice Dendere, an old Mary Ward. Zaka had refused to speak or offer any justification or defense. He had said nothing, and it was that silence that had finally condemned him. There were no extenuating circumstances. It was a killing without a purpose, the Judge said, without mercy or remorse. There was only one possible sentence: death by hanging.
We finally got the truth, or a glimpse of it, from Kasparov. The timid little chap who had shadowed Zaka was now the expansive and voluble owner of an employment agency that recruited care workers for hospitals in Luton. In the heat of that August day, we drank in every word.
Just before the Division Night on which Zaka and Nicodemus had become friends, Kasparov had gone to play a game with Zaka in the Prefects’ Room. Hunched over the chessboard, Zaka had not seemed himself. He had lost three games in a row, but still insisted that Kasparov stay long past the Junior House bedtime.
Then he had burst into garbled speech about being caught by Nicodemus as he lay in the empty sanatorium with Gumbo, the boy who would die after forging his stepmother’s signature. From that moment, Nicodemus had begun to bleed both boys of money. Gumbo had tried to pay him off by getting a big sum all at once. When he was caught, he killed himself. After that, Nicodemus changed his tactics. It was attention he wanted now, attention and friendship. Zaka’s friendship.
As Zaka spoke, Kasparov had received the tale with mingled horror and panic. He had not wanted to be the recipient of these dreadful confidences. Foremost in his mind was the thought of the demerit he would get if Brother Peter caught him out of bed. When Zaka released him, with a forceful declaration that he would get it if he told anyone about their conversation, Kasparov crept away. He was relieved to find that he had not been missed.
The next day, Zaka acted as though nothing of moment had happened between them. By the time half-term came, Kasparov had almost forgotten about it. He did not tell anyone. He and Zaka were bound by the Loyola code of honor: come what may, you did not tell on another boy.
They never played chess again.
We heard all this with shock and horror. And though we exclaimed over the waste and pity, we could not blame Kasparov for having done nothing. When we looked around us at the boys in their uniforms, some of them our own children, their faces shining with hope, it came to us just how young we had all been back then. Kasparov had been only twelve, turning thirteen that year. Even the oldest of us were no more than seventeen. How could any of us have imagined, in the innocence of those days, that there had been this darkness at the school? A darkness that had led to Gumbo’s death and then, all these years later, to Nicodemus’s, and would now lead to Zaka’s own.
We did not linger long on Zaka. We immersed ourselves in other, happier memories. We hid our discomfort in talk of the economy and politics. At the special Mass, the choral voices soared with the same hymns we had sung. The drummers thudded out the fata murungu fata murungu fata murungu murungu murungu drumbeat that had been the soundtrack to our every Sunday. At the close of the service, we said goodbye to Father Rector and to our old teachers. As our long line of cars snaked down into the valley, the sun fell behind the red roofs of Loyola. In the distance, we heard the shrill of the siren that had punctuated our days, sounding now to indicate to the children we’d left behind that the day had ended and it was time to rest. 

