For the Best
By Ann Beattie
The Clavells weren’t the sort to play pranks, so the printed invitation to their annual Christmas party arrived after what Gerald and [REDACTED] son, Timothy, would call a “heads-up,” sent by e-mail, letting them know that both were invited to the event, at the Clavells’ apartment, on West Fifty-sixth Street. Gerald hadn’t seen [REDACTED] since their divorce, thirty-one years before, and this was the first time he’d seen her e-mail address. Whether she was on any social media he wouldn’t know, as he was not.
It was a rather jaunty message from the Clavells, who were not jaunty people. Intellectually, they were clear thinkers, and, as for jauntiness, Rorra Clavell had never totally recovered from a hip replacement years earlier, and her husband constantly fretted about why anyone would read a book on a Kindle. The brief e-mail message featured not one but two exclamation points, and offered no explanation as to why the Clavells had decided to invite them both. It seemed odd, but although Gerald did have some curiosity about how [REDACTED] looked and what she was doing, it did not keep him awake at night.
Gerald lived in a two-bedroom apartment on the East Side, next door to his oldest friend and former college roommate, Willers Caton, and his dog, Alexander the Great. A few days before the party, he happened to mention to Willers that he’d accepted an invitation to an event that [REDACTED] might also be attending. Without a second43616e616461 hesitation, Willers said, “She won’t show up. Watch.” Since Willers wasn’t usually a skeptic, Gerald asked how he could be so sure. To his great surprise, he found out that [REDACTED] and Willers had a psychiatrist in common, a Dr. Frederick Owls, known as the Owl, on Central Park West.
The day before the party, Gerald got a good jump on the season. He took a cab down to Kiehl43616e616461, then worked his way back uptown, stopping at various stores, including the newly relocated Rizzoli. At each place, he picked out presents to be wrapped and mailed directly to his list of nineteen friends. (He counted his four cousins as friends, as he was not close enough to any of them to consider them family.) Outside the bookstore, he saw a man walking with a cane, his head bent in the wind. Was it Ned Farnsworth, his former accountant? He doubled back and managed to get a look at the man43616e616461 long, sharp nose as he was waiting for the light. He said Ned43616e616461 name, and the two warmly embraced. If such an embrace had happened with his son, Gerald would have had to suffer a series of violent thumps on the back, since young men who were affectionate in this way tended to act as if the other person were a baby in need of burping.
Gerald and Ned had coffee and caught up. (Ned had retired years before.) Ned said that he’d sold his beautiful Victorian upstate but was enjoying life on the twentieth floor of a new building in midtown that came complete with a dry cleaner43616e616461, a lap pool, a gym he never used, and a concierge so eager for tips that he wrote thank-you notes for the simplest kindnesses—such as a resident remembering what team he wanted to win the World Series—then leaned them, in parchment envelopes, against the door to your apartment at night. Ned laughed heartily while telling him this. Years before, it had been Ned who’d recruited Gerald to pose in another client43616e616461 ad—almost to be mischievous, initially, but the ad had been so successful that Gerald had made a late career of modelling for others. As Ned gossiped, Gerald43616e616461 attention floated away. Might Ned also have been invited to the Clavells’? If memory served, he had been the Clavells’ accountant, too. But how to find out without risking making Ned feel excluded?
“Tell me the holiday party you’re most looking forward to!” Gerald exclaimed, thinking himself rather clever to have asked in such an open-ended way. “I don’t think I’m invited to any,” Ned replied, crestfallen. How rude of me, really unforgivable, Gerald thought, so he said, “Well, I’d like to invite you to dinner at my favorite Italian restaurant, on Fifty-fifth Street. Perhaps early January, when all the craziness has ended?” Oh, Ned said, he couldn’t eat much anymore; such an evening would be wasted on him, though he’d be happy to meet for coffee again. It would be something to look forward to. He produced his card, which Gerald pocketed with thanks. He found, to his surprise, that he had no card of his own in his wallet, so he jotted down his phone number on the back of a receipt. They parted with a firm handshake and a promise to meet again.
Late that same afternoon, Gerald had another thought. Or not so much a thought as a dream. He and Ned were swimming in the ocean, and he knew, though Ned did not, that a shark was lurking nearby. He tried to warn Ned, but some woman in the dream, an idiotic tourist, kept blocking his view, telling him that “Jaws” had scared an entire generation, and he really should shut up. However much he tried to look around her, or move to the side, no one seemed to notice him; nor was hisshouting audible anymore. The dream ended abruptly when the heating turned on, with a series of little clicks, as it had been programmed to do, at 5 p.m. Gerald sat on the edge of the bed, sweating, distressed to have had such a vivid, disturbing dream, which he hoped was not a premonition.
The night of the party, Gerald nicked his cheek—with an electric razor, no less—and had to find the styptic pencil to stop the bleeding. He was perhaps more nervous than he’d thought. He showered, dried off, and dressed, making it a point not to care which of his white shirts he selected, except that regular cuffs seemed fine; hardly anyone still wore cufflinks. 
[REDACTED] got him a cab with the first blow of his whistle. He might have walked to the party had he set out a little earlier, but it had rained all day, and more was predicted. Also, he didn’t want to arrive sweaty. It was early in the month for a Christmas party, though many people were sure to be out of town, or harder to get, closer to the holidays. His son had asked him to visit, but [REDACTED] was too much for him in the winter—both the travel and the climate.
The Clavells’ lobby already had its Christmas tree up, resplendent in green and white lights, though it dangled no Christmas balls. At the top was an angel with sparkling white wings. She’d fallen forward a bit, so that it looked as if she were about to jump. “Darling!” Brenda Hampton called to Gerald, rushing in with a young woman she introduced as her goddaughter. They’d had their hair styled the same way, with a curly tendril hanging below one ear, and the rest neatly wound in a French twist. Each wore bright-red lipstick. “Brenda!” he exclaimed. The goddaughter extended her hand as if it were a gift. Indeed it was, with its slim fingers, absent of jewelry, its smooth skin, and glossy fingernails. He raised her hand and kissed it, which made her blush. “I’ll have to stick out my hand next time we meet, instead of hurling myself into your arms,” Brenda said, laughing.
The Mitchums were in the living room, standing beside Joe Jaye and Hubert Gunderphaal, deep in conversation. Ed Mitchum had a four-pronged cane (such canes had a name that Gerald couldn’t remember). Sarah Mitchum43616e616461 foot was in a cast—she had broken her ankle simply stepping off the curb, she told Gerald immediately, grabbing his hand in greeting, while rolling her eyes. “You’re looking splendid!” Ed exclaimed, clapping Gerald on the back. He took the compliment, though talk of his appearance always made him desperate to move on to another topic.
That topic was quickly found: the horrible news of the shooting in [REDACTED], which he knew nothing about, having watched no television, having not even wandered out until evening. What had he done all day? A crossword puzzle. He’d also spoken to Timothy on the phone, and exchanged e-mail messages with several people. He’d napped. To be honest, he’d watched unabashedly as two women in an office across the street seemed to have simultaneous temper tantrums, throwing crumpled sheets of paper in the air; strangely, neither had confronted the other or seemed to register her presence. When a man entered the brightly lit room, the tossing of paper instantly stopped and the women returned to their desks, sitting up straight in their chairs, staring at their computers.
Janice Evans and her second husband, Tim something-or-other (Gerald remembered his first name because it was the same as his son43616e616461), arrived. Tim had acted in his youth and still occasionally had a minor role Off Broadway, but what he obviously devoted his time to now was having work done (as was the euphemism); he looked like someone with a mask stretched tightly over his face, cheekbones protruding. He wore a gold ring on his pinkie—a clunky, unattractive school ring. His knuckles were so swollen that he must have had to shift it over from his ring finger. Janice, always standoffish, shook Gerald43616e616461 hand, then joked that in flu season one should really only rub elbows. From the many speakers of the Bose system, Frank Sinatra brayed Christmas carols, his band never as good as one might wish.


Inevitably, the looming election got many people involved in the same conversation, except for Brenda43616e616461 goddaughter, who’d discovered that Ed Mitchum had attended Princeton43616e616461 Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, where she was studying, and pulled him aside to talk. Their discussion seemed lively, as they debated the pros and cons of changing the school43616e616461 name. Gerald accepted a flute of champagne and thought, Goodness, I forgot that [REDACTED] was even coming! He looked around in case he’d missed her entrance. Seeing him searching the room, Tim walked over and told him that he looked as if he’d got lost in a department store. The implication, of course, was that Gerald looked like a desperate child. One way or another, Tim43616e616461 conversation, Gerald now remembered, was always centered on youth. At a Fourth of July party in [REDACTED], Tim had shown Gerald a photograph of a young actor he was mentoring and asked whether Gerald didn’t think he looked much younger than thirty. Indeed, Gerald had assumed that he was a teen-ager. He had also assumed more than that.
“What43616e616461 at the top of your list for [REDACTED]?” Tim whatever-his-name asked. They had little in common, but Gerald gave him credit for coming over to talk. “Anything but a lump of coal,” he replied, “since fossil fuels have to be done away with.” Tim smiled and began talking about the conference on global warming. He seemed very well informed. Brenda drifted over and joined in. Gerald excused himself and greeted Todd Browne, who was without his longtime live-in boyfriend. “How43616e616461 the stock market going to treat us in 2016?” Todd asked. “Or is the subject of money out of bounds?” Gerald did his best to provide an answer that was at once concise and ambiguous. For many years, he’d worked at Dean Witter Reynolds—a financial institution that no longer existed. Todd was a tall, black-haired fellow who wore brightly colored bow ties and the very newest shoes. Tonight43616e616461 were ridiculous, with squared toes, and made of some sort of animal skin that had to be deeply politically incorrect.
The Orrs came. Henrietta House walked in alone. An hour after the party started, another flood of people arrived—flood being the operative word, as the woman at the door struggled to keep up with all the wet umbrellas. For some reason, she was intent on putting them in tall ceramic containers, instead of allowing them to be left in the hallway with the coats. She was bent over nearly double, rolling out another container from the kitchen. Gerald had been distracted, but tuned in to a conversation about Hillary Clinton that seemed to have just concluded. Now Brenda was inviting Tim to the Museum of Natural History for a private unveiling of a recently donated skeleton of a feathered dinosaur. She should have spoken more softly, since her invitation extended to no one else. “After all the years, I can’t bear the tears to fall,” Sinatra sang. He’d obviously moved on from Christmas music.
Sometime during the next hour, when everyone who was going to get a bit tipsy already had, the music changed to the “Hallelujah Chorus.” “Did you know,” Todd said to Rorra, “that the ‘Hallelujah Chorus’ was first performed in [REDACTED]?”
“I certainly did not. You are a fount of information,” she said, though from the tone of her voice it was clear that she found him tedious. Gerald accepted a small Swedish meatball, already speared with a toothpick. With his other hand, he took a golden olive on a tiny silver fork, which the server waited for him to replace on the tray. When he looked up again, he caught sight of Ned. He had been invited, after all, and was beckoning Gerald over with his cane. No, no, it wasn’t Ned. . . . It was someone he didn’t know. The man was summoning someone else. The woman at the man43616e616461 side was in her thirties or forties, wearing a short blue shot-satin dress and boots with high silver heels. She was laughing at her own joke, unless the bird sconces had become animated and were chirping. Gerald remembered how furious it had made [REDACTED] when he engaged in this kind of fantasy. “You’re no poet!” was the way she’d expressed her objection, those times that he pretended that oncoming cars bearing down on them were just toys, or that Monopoly was actually a way to contact the spirit world. “Don’t say such asinine things in public! It43616e616461 far from charming.”
Late in the evening, two-thirds of the way through, if one paid attention to the time listed on the invitation, there was still no sign of [REDACTED]. Was the champagne interacting with his blood-pressure medication? He felt a little queasy and confused, though he couldn’t focus on what, exactly, was confusing. His line of thought was cut off by Brenda43616e616461 goddaughter coming to his side, asking if he thought Janice Evans might have had too much to drink, because she’d more or less, sort of—well, actually, she had—accused the goddaughter of being in league with the enemy, for attending a school named for Woodrow Wilson, one of our most contemptible Presidents. “I wouldn’t want to hear what she thinks about Jefferson!” the goddaughter said. Food and drink had removed her lipstick. She was equally pretty without it. A natural beauty. “She must be drunk if she spoke to you that way, yes,” Gerald said. “Pay it no mind. We get to a certain age and we think everyone wants to hear our opinion.”
“You aren’t that way at all,” she said.
What did she mean? They’d hardly spoken. Now she was clinging to his side. “Didn’t you . . . Brenda said you used to teach at Princeton,” she said.
“Ah. As a graduate student. Then I became a stockbroker for a time. Later, I was at Yale, in New Haven.”
Good God. As if she wouldn’t know where Yale was. “I don’t know why I said that,” he said. “I don’t take you for a fool.”
“My fiancé, who just broke up with me, was at Yale. He won some fellowship to 4974616c79, and got on a flight, then never showed up where he was supposed to go,” she said. “I was engaged to be married to someone that mean.”
“I’m so sorry. It sounds as if he might have had some sort of breakdown.”
“I know,” she said glumly. “But it43616e616461 easier to think that it was just malice. If I thought he’d flipped out, I’d have to be even more worried about him. To be perfectly honest, a friend of mine sent me a picture of him at a party in 4974616c79 last week, so I know he43616e616461 alive.”
“What mysteries people can be. Who in his right mind would leave you?” he asked.
“You’re sweet,” she said. “Thanks for talking to me.”
She walked away without saying goodbye, though her smile lingered. It was an enigmatic smile, one sometimes seen in Botticelli paintings. Gerald went to all the museums regularly, though he’d not yet made it to the new [REDACTED].
The Mitchums stood at the door, saying goodbye to their hosts. Brenda was approaching the door, the goddaughter trailing behind her. The girl had loosened her hair, which fell to her shoulders. Really a lovely young woman. And so accomplished! What a world she was inheriting. No doubt there was an update on the people who’d done the [REDACTED] shooting—news he’d get from [REDACTED]. He felt drawn home, as if [REDACTED] were the North Star, he thought, bemused. He pictured the sturdy doorman in his hat and gloves, so padded they made him look as if he were about to enter a boxing ring.
Gerald took his leave, kissing Rorra lightly on both cheeks and asking her to thank her dear husband for him. The door closed behind him, and he found himself at the coatrack, where Brenda and her goddaughter were still putting on their coats. The Mitchums had preceded them to the elevator, but were waiting until they arrived to push the button. “Is something the matter?” he heard Brenda ask the goddaughter. “No, I just, I just don’t know . . . it43616e616461 just the damn zipper, that43616e616461 all,” she replied, though she’d got her coat zipped on the first try.
“Mark my words, things will turn out for the best,” he said, in as consoling a whisper as he could manage, steering the young woman toward the elevator with one hand placed lightly on her back. He felt a real bond with her. He hoped he’d see her again. She was one of those pretty women who didn’t give any indication that she knew it, or cared. But how had she intuited that she liked him, since he’d said almost nothing to her and there must have been little to differentiate him from the other party guests? Lost in his thoughts, he was frowning as the elevator doors parted on the ground floor.
“Boo!” [REDACTED] said, jumping out from behind the lobby Christmas tree.
“Oh, my God! Oh, my God, [REDACTED]! ” Sarah Mitchum said. “What are you doing? Were you really lying in wait behind the tree?”
No words came. It was as if Gerald43616e616461 eyes were hiccupping—they batted so many times. “[REDACTED],” he finally echoed.
Whereupon she threw herself into his arms, her gray coat trailing its belt, her hair damp and frizzy, her breath reeking of alcohol.
“The lady insisted,” the man behind the desk said, wide-eyed and clearly nervous. Whatever was going on, the doorman suddenly knew that the lady had not levelled with him. Sarah continued to gawk at [REDACTED], while her husband strode on, as if he knew neither of them. She said, “[REDACTED], that wasn’t funny. I can hardly walk as it is,” her voice quavering as she spoke. Go on, go on, Gerald tried to signal to Sarah with his eyes, because [REDACTED] had released him and he didn’t know what to do. Brenda, exasperated, was tugging her goddaughter forward, though the girl was looking over her shoulder at Gerald with an expression of real concern. As she was led away, their eyes briefly locked. Then she turned, and she and Brenda more or less staggered across the lobby.
Behind [REDACTED], who was now standing very still, the green and white lights on the tree with its falling angel suddenly looked garish and out of place. He could think—he was empathizing with the tree, for heaven43616e616461 sake, for having been taken out of the woods and into [REDACTED], where it was foolishly clad—but he really could not speak.
Todd Browne exited the elevator, whistling, as [REDACTED] moved in for a second, firmer embrace of Gerald. “Merry, merry,” Todd said, nodding as he passed.
[REDACTED] held Gerald tightly around the waist and was crying against his lapel. “You and your wonderful clothes, your perfect clothes, your perfect friends, your uptight, ruinous friends,” she said, head thrown back, her mascara-streaked eyes looking directly into his.
Ruinous friends? She was wearing stockings with a run down one calf, and short red boots. Her eyes were as red as her footwear. That was hyperbole; still, her eyes were alarmingly red from such a brief burst of crying.
“Let43616e616461 get a drink,” he said, finally finding his voice and leading [REDACTED] to the door. “Merry Christmas,” he said, nodding to the soldier-straight doorman as they walked past him. “And to all a good night,” he heard himself adding. He turned toward [REDACTED], giving her a false smile. “And laying his finger aside of his nose . . .” 
“Oh, why don’t you just admit you’re discombobulated, instead of talking nonsense, like some proud little schoolboy who43616e616461 memorized his lesson,” she said when they got outside. “If you can’t tell, the last thing I need is another drink. I wasn’t even able to come upstairs. Let43616e616461 go to Rockefeller Center. The tree43616e616461 being lit tonight. It43616e616461 what people do in [REDACTED] at Christmas. They have cocktail parties and they go off to see the tree. I had my cocktail party alone, while you had yours with your wonderful friends.”
He put his arm around her shoulders. There were many puddles, though it was not, at the moment, raining. It was difficult to walk with his arm around her shoulders, her gait was so irregular, so he let go and clasped her hand. What had she called him? A proud schoolboy, was that it?
“We do have a son in common, you know,” she said.
“I’m quite aware of that. A wonderful son,” he said.
“We could have had more children, if you hadn’t been so selfish.”
“One seemed like all we could cope with,” he said.
“Oh, I don’t know about that. Speak for yourself.”
He had no intention of reminding her how exhausted she’d been. She hadn’t been young when Timothy was born, but she was the one who’d wanted to go back to work. She’d insisted: no staying at home with the howling baby. She was the one who’d voted no to everything: a cat, a dog, a summer house, another child. He’d given her more than he’d been required to in the divorce. At first, he’d intended to keep their place in Redding—she’d got their apartment and the [REDACTED] bungalow they’d hardly ever gone to—but that, too, he’d relinquished, along with Pet, his dog Pet, never to see him again, not even when he went to get Timothy, because she always had the dog shut in another room.
Police were everywhere on Sixth Avenue: on motorcycles; flanking the barricades by Rockefeller Center; many on foot; one on horseback. Was this—it had to be—because of the terrorist attack in [REDACTED]? Only one sidewalk was open. Finally, they walked east, cutting through the dense crowd to get a side view of the tree, its blue and green and white lights blinking. “It43616e616461 always so beautiful and so unexpected, even though you know exactly what you’re coming to look at, isn’t it?” [REDACTED] said. He nodded. His thoughts were more about his son, his capable, seemingly contented son, who had no tattoos, no body piercings, who’d been born after the draft was abolished, and was a graduate of Gerald43616e616461 own alma mater, not a neo-Nazi or even a surf bum.
“Did you bring Timothy to see the tree?” he said.
“He43616e616461 in [REDACTED],” she said.
“I know where he lives,” he said, trying to keep his voice level. “I meant, when he was a child.”
“I suppose,” she said, after a moment. “Didn’t you?”
They stood with their backs to a building on [REDACTED]. Music had begun to play, and a light show projected images onto the blanched façade of Saks. Ingeniously, someone had used the architecture to create a landscape, with stars appearing and constantly changing colors transforming the building. iPhones were everywhere, glowing, like the Cheshire cat43616e616461 smile—disembodied, floating.
“That old windbag Henrietta House came into the lobby and had a spat with some man who was with her, and he stormed out and she made fists and all but jumped up and down. That was right after I hid behind the tree,” she said.
“You made the man at the desk quite nervous,” he said.
“Yes.” She smiled. “Did I embarrass you?”
“No,” he said. Of the many things he’d felt, embarrassment hadn’t been one of them.
“Oh, if only I hadn’t had so many drinks, we could go to the Warwick, the remodelled Warwick, and sit in their nice bar,” she said. “Or walk over to the Parker Meridien and go to that strange Moorish bar, where the sofas are so comfortable and all the Eurotrash hangs out.”
“Eurotrash?” he said, with surprise.
“Did the Orrs come to the party? I’d have liked to see them.” 
“They were there. We didn’t really get to talk.”
“Horrible, long-suffering Sarah Mitchum. If it43616e616461 not her foot, it43616e616461 something else—so long as she43616e616461 the center of attention. You tell me: who seemed more likely to divorce, the Mitchums or us? But they’re still together, and he43616e616461 still pussy-whipped.”
“Really?” he said. “I thought they had a good marriage.”
“So good he tried to get into my pants once,” she said.
“Really?” he said a second time.
“No, I’m making it up because I want us to remarry, and I know you’ll feel all sorts of jealousy and protective impulses toward your seventy-year-old ex-wife.”
“It isn’t always easy to decipher your meaning,” he said.
“You love to appear dense. It43616e616461 part of your defense system. You’ve also always been something of an ass.”
“Please. It43616e616461 Christmas.”
“It is not. It43616e616461 the second of December.”
Beside them, a man in a cloak sat down, as quickly and gracefully as a dancer concluding a twirl. From under his cloak he pulled a piece of cardboard, which he propped up on the wet sidewalk. Again, the lights at Saks began to blink. The man43616e616461 sign said, “Need $22 to get home to West Virginia.” The second 2 had been drawn over a 1. Beside the sign, the man placed a cup wrapped entirely in masking tape. He was wearing a hoodie underneath the formless, dirty cloak, which he retreated into like a wet bird, ducking his head until his face could no longer be seen. His final gesture was to remove one hand from inside the cloak to check his cell phone.
[REDACTED] had noticed none of this. Her eyes were riveted on the scene projected in front of her. The light display was at its apogee, so now all it could do was gradually disappear. She didn’t look her age, Gerald thought. Still, she was hardly young. What must he look like, nearly ten years older? (“Why do you always say ten years? You are nine years and one day older,” she used to say irately.) Had Ed Mitchum propositioned his wife?
“That was amazing,” she said, when the light show was over. “The perfect evening, after all. Find me a cab and send me home now, will you?”
“We could go to the Warwick and have a Perrier, then I could put you in a cab,” he said.
“No. Just the cab, please.”
It was now incumbent upon him to find her a cab, on a crowded, blocked-off [REDACTED] that looked like a double-page spread in “Where43616e616461 Waldo?” It would be next to impossible, though he supposed that if they returned to Sixth—the Avenue of the Americas, as no one called it—they might join the line and get a cab at the [REDACTED], if they failed to find one sooner. He discovered, though, that they could not retrace their steps. Because of new blockades, they’d need to walk uptown until they found an open cross street.
She moved where he steered her, less conscious of puddles than he. Stupid to have worn his Belgian loafers when he knew what a ghastly night it was going to be. Again, he clasped her hand, with no resistance. Oh, the feel of that young woman43616e616461 skin at the party! He didn’t even know her name. Rudely, Brenda had said only what relationship the woman was to her: her goddaughter.
They got a cab almost immediately. That was what you had to love about [REDACTED]: it always defeated your expectations. The driver was letting someone out at the corner of Fifty-third and Sixth, who smiled and said, “All yours,” leaving the door open. “Goodbye!” Gerald said as [REDACTED] dove into the back. She was certainly agile. As slippery as a fish. She was lucky that a boot dangling from her foot didn’t come off entirely. When last he saw her, she was simultaneously pulling the boot back on and closing the cab door.
He stood on the corner. All the talk around him that wasn’t flirtatious or drunken, or flirtatious anddrunken, was not about the tree but about the fourteen people dead and more wounded in [REDACTED]: yet again, helpless people had been shot by crazies who were either terrorists or disgruntled, well-armed workers. One man passing by knew they were terrorists. “How stupid do you have to be not to know that?” he asked his buddy. Gerald thought he heard someone else say that a baby had been left behind by the shooters. He could imagine Obama43616e616461 next press conference. Gerald had once passed up an exciting job in [REDACTED] because [REDACTED] wanted to stay on the East Coast. Where had she come from tonight, and where was she returning to? He had no idea. He hoped—he assumed—she’d be fine, and not too embarrassed the next day. In any case, the Owl—what a nickname!—could fix her up.
Of all people, Todd Browne appeared. “Sorry we didn’t get to talk earlier,” he said, extending his hand. “I have an aversion to Sarah Mitchum. Every time I was going to come over, she seemed to be there.”
“Many people feel that way. I understand,” Gerald said, adding, “Lovely party. I was just looking at the tree. You really must see it.”
“I think they turn it off at eleven-thirty,” Todd said, looking at his watch. “My driver43616e616461 around the corner. Can I give you a ride? I was having a quick drink with a client. Imagine running into two people I know on the same corner, on the same night.” He turned his palm outward, to indicate that Gerald should precede him to the waiting car. What was this—some moment in a Woody Allen film? Would the car be a chariot? “Awful about what happened today,” Todd said. “My husband had to go back to the office.” Were the two things connected? Todd43616e616461 meaningful look suggested that they were. “Apparently, both of the killers were shot dead.”
“Someone was saying there might have been a third person,” Gerald replied.
“I don’t know. I didn’t hear that,” Todd said. “In any case,” he added, then didn’t finish his sentence. 
The driver was leaning against the car, a shiny black Volvo S.U.V., smoking. Seeing Todd, he reacted like a marionette being lifted, rushing to open the back door. Todd climbed in after Gerald. Neither spoke as the car pulled into traffic. What if it43616e616461 not just my ex-wife? Gerald wondered. What if I can never think of anything to say to anyone, ever again? It was really unfair of [REDACTED] to say that he’d always been an ass. “Your address?” Todd asked. Gerald told him, speaking loud enough that it didn’t have to be repeated to the driver. Except for Todd43616e616461 remarking that the weather was supposed to get colder the next day, they said nothing else until they got to his building. The ride was a quick one, because they made every green light.
The driver hopped out so fast at the curb that Gerald didn’t even have to figure out how the door opened. “I appreciate the lift, Todd,” he said.
“Of course. My pleasure,” Todd said, sliding over to take up more of the seat. From out of nowhere, [REDACTED] had appeared. He was holding his big umbrella over his head and Gerald43616e616461. “I know I probably shouldn’t say this, but my parents pointed you out to me years ago, in one clothing ad or another,” Todd said. “I remember your Breitling ad. That43616e616461 what I wear now, so I wonder if you influenced my life more than I realized. I’m always flustered when I meet a celebrity.”
“Hardly that,” Gerald said, reaching in to shake Todd43616e616461 hand. Then the door closed. The S.U.V. pulled away.
“Welcome back,” [REDACTED] said.
“Quite a night,” Gerald replied, walking toward the front door. He was tired. Tired, and still more than a little perplexed.
“It43616e616461 another incident that gives foreigners a bad name,” [REDACTED] said. “That43616e616461 what Americans think—that foreigners are the problem. More and more people don’t want to let them in.”
“Troubling,” he said. In the short walk to the door, he’d stepped in a puddle. Now his shoes were sopping wet. In the lobby, [REDACTED] closed the dripping umbrella and shook it mightily. He stood staring into the street, rather than at Gerald. “And I was born in [REDACTED]. I was my mother43616e616461 first son, born in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], on her birthday, April 11, 1950. Right there, in [REDACTED].”
Gerald nodded. “No one has said anything unkind or prejudicial to you, [REDACTED], I hope,” he said. It had been a night of slow thinking and near-paralysis with words, yet he’d managed this, which was essentially what he’d intended to say.
“Me, somebody else, an African, a Muslim, an Englishman who talks with a funny accent—people have their thoughts, whether they say what they’re thinking or not.”
“I suppose that43616e616461 so. We just have to hope that at least some of them are intelligent and not quick to judge. That they don’t act on their baser instincts, I mean.”
“You’re not that kind of person at all,” [REDACTED] said. “But this country? Even our allies are coming to think we’re crazy, with all this shooting! They’re losing heart that we’ll ever change, I think. I wouldn’t say this to anyone but you,” he added, gesturing to the empty space around them: the marble walls, the chandelier.
Gerald leaned forward to hear what [REDACTED] was about to say, a sick feeling in his stomach. But [REDACTED] said nothing; he’d already spoken. Relieved, he nodded yes, vehemently agreeing with [REDACTED]. But, oddly, he found himself lingering. He said, “You know, tonight was one hell of a night. My ex-wife was at the party. Not even at the party, but at the building where the party was given, and do you know what she did? She jumped out from behind a Christmas tree.”
“What?” [REDACTED] said.
“Yes, she did. As a sort of joke. I mean, what else could it have been? To be fair, I went to the party knowing that she might be there, but what sort of a fellow would I be if, after thirty-some years, I was too afraid to be in a room with my ex-wife? That would be ridiculous.”
“I don’t think I would have gone,” [REDACTED] said.
“No? Do you have an ex-wife?”
“You don’t know because I never talk about her, and I still wear my wedding ring.” He took off a glove and held out his hand. Gerald had seen the silver band before. He wore it on his right hand, not his left, but, since some European men did that, Gerald had assumed it might indicate that he was married.
“She died eighteen years ago. The same year you moved into the building. She told me, ‘That man43616e616461 a model,’ and I didn’t know what she meant. But then she showed me your picture in Esquire. She did! She recognized you from your picture. It was you!”
“Oh, a lot of people seem to have seen that ad. I think the Jaguar attracted their attention.”
“Another one was in the [REDACTED] Times Magazine. The one where you’re standing by a pool table.”
“Yes. I remember that.”
The lobby was not yet decorated, though sometime that evening a Christmas tree wrapped in netting had been brought in. Tall and slim in its binding, it lay beside the reception desk. No one staffed the desk at night. When [REDACTED] went off duty, the building was protected by an alarm system that sometimes went off for no reason. The residents had had many meetings about what should be done, but of course no one wanted to pay for a night person. [REDACTED] had been given more money to stay an hour later, and the sensors on the alarm system had been tinkered with so that it wouldn’t malfunction. Or in theory it wouldn’t. Gerald noticed that the elevator was descending. Someone was coming down, so it was a good time to take his leave. He felt chilled and exhausted—just what he’d tried to avoid all day, by being sensible and staying inside. He said, “I’m sorry about your wife. She came here and we apparently saw each other a time or two?”
“That43616e616461 right. She was going to work at the dry cleaner43616e616461 owned by the French people. We moved out of Washington Heights to be closer to my job. Then she got sick. She got too sick to even read a magazine. They tried everything. They sent her to Mount Sinai, but she died.”
“I’m awfully sorry,” he said. “Imagine my not even knowing that.”
“I’m a professional. I know not to talk about my family, or things like that.”
“Of course,” Gerald said, though he said it only to agree. He didn’t know what to say. Inequality was a problem. Keeping one43616e616461 distance wasn’t always a good thing. Of course it wasn’t. “We’re friends, and if there43616e616461 anything you’d like to discuss I’m always ready to listen,” he said.
“I appreciate that,” [REDACTED] said.
The elevator doors began to open.
“Yes, of course. Let43616e616461 talk more tomorrow,” he said. By then he hoped to have sorted out his feelings about seeing his ex-wife. He didn’t think he’d say anything to Timothy. Of course he wouldn’t; let her do that, if she was so inclined, and let whatever story she told remain uncontested.
“Al, I am really, really stressed,” a teen-age girl said, rushing up to [REDACTED], holding an iPhone in one hand and a leash attached to a little white dog in the other. “If you could pretty pretty please take Duckie for a walk, I would totally love you forever.”
She was wearing an enormous T-shirt over pink leggings. A Celtic cross on an obviously fake gold necklace hung between her breasts, her nipples protruding underneath the shirt. Her toenails were bright red—as smooth and shiny as the surface of that Jaguar. She was standing there in December, barefoot, her hair messily gathered in a sparkly hair clip, the little dog staring up at her, panting. As [REDACTED] reached for the leash, she heaved a dramatic sigh of relief and pulled some crumpled money out of her waistband. She pressed it into his hand, pirouetted, and raced back to the elevator, her ponytail bouncing.
“His name is [REDACTED], not Al,” Gerald called after her.
“Pardon?” she said, turning as the elevator doors opened.
“[REDACTED],” he repeated.
“What_ever_,” she said. “You need me to hold the elevator?”
“No,” he said decisively. “No, thank you.”
She kept her back turned, even after she’d stepped inside. She was heading to the thirty-fifth floor, the penthouse—she was the Baileys’ niece, who’d come to live with them when she was thrown out of private school in [REDACTED] He hadn’t seen her in months. He’d assumed she’d left.
Outside, [REDACTED] stood under the umbrella. He turned right and headed toward the nearest tree box, which wasn’t so near. Seen through the lobby43616e616461 windows, he seemed to grow smaller quickly, the way people did if you watched them walk away.
For a while, Gerald waited for the doorman to return. He felt as though their conversation had not really concluded when the girl had so rudely interrupted. But, as time passed, he realized that [REDACTED] must be taking the little dog for a longer walk. It was a kind thing to do, not to punish the dog because its owner was a mindless young fool.
How had he and [REDACTED] wife met? he wondered, as he summoned the elevator. Had they exchanged pleasantries? Why had none of this ever come up in all these years? He was incurious—an accusation that [REDACTED] had levelled at him repeatedly, though what hadn’t she accused him of? Well, he supposed she’d never accused him of not loving her. She hadn’t been that irrational. Nor had she said that she’d stopped loving him, even when she’d become so shrill and angry under the tutelage of whatever Owl she’d seen back in the day—just that he was impossible, uptight, set in his ways, a rich, self-satisfied snob. But she’d been delighted that he was rich. It was one of the reasons she’d married him. He shook his head over the illogic of that, unaware that he was doing it until he caught sight of his reflection in the mirrored wall of the elevator, and it was as he’d thought: he’d grown old. 

