 
The Weir
By Mark Haddon
He pops the catch and lifts the rusty boot. Quivering with excitement, the dogs burst from the back of the car, squirm under the lowest bar of the fence, and bolt across the field in great arcing bounds. Leo and Fran, big chocolate-and-white pointers. He drops the chewed and ragged tennis ball into one jacket pocket, the coiled leather leads into the other, grabs the old gripless tennis racket, and slams the boot. He beeps the lock and climbs the stile.
Grass stretches into the distance. Twenty acres. There are no sheep this year, so half a million buttercups hover just above the ground. He can smell the May blossom, the same chemicals that are in semen and corpses, so he read the other day. Wytham Woods rise beyond the meadow to his left. Up there among the trees is the path called the Singing Way, where pilgrims broke into song as they passed My Lady’s Seat and looked across the silver flood of Port Meadow to the inns and spires of Oxford.
It’s one of those spring days which seem warm and cold at the same time. Cirrus clouds overhead. Ice crystals at sixteen thousand feet. Enough blue to make a pair of sailor’s trousers. A pied wagtail lands briefly on the path in front of him, then hops back into the air and is carried away.
Leo races toward him and skids to a halt with Fran in pursuit. He barks and half prostrates himself, forelegs flat on the ground, hindquarters in the air. Throw the ball throw the ball throw the ball. Ian lobs it into the air, whacks it hard, and both dogs launch themselves backward, twisting in midair so that they land on all fours, then run like racehorses in old paintings, the ball still up there, sliding around that big curve.
To his right, the river is full from last week’s downpour, the surface purling midstream as the water sorts itself out below the weir. A buzzard circles above the scrubby wasteland on the far side. He treads carefully over the loose twisty poles of the cattle grid and feels, as he always does at this precise point, that he has crossed an invisible boundary that marks the limit of the town’s reach.
It’s now seven weeks since Maria left, and he’s rather pleased at how well he’s coping. The dogs help, dragging him out on long walks like this. Having the time of their lives, probably. Plus, thanks to them, the house is never empty. He’s learning to cook for himself after twenty-six years: macaroni and cheese, shepherd’s pie. . . . And reading his way through the stacks of books that have been glaring at him from the shelf above the TV for the last God knows how long: John Grisham, Philip Pullman, the one set in [REDACTED] whose author he can never remember.
Fran returns with the ball in her mouth. They do a little dance of dodge-and-feint. She drops it. He picks it up and whacks it away again.
If there are rough patches, that’s to be expected. Change gets harder as you get older, just as the body becomes less flexible. Today, for example. The nagging feeling he has that his marriage is only the latest thing to have slipped away. The world is shifting too fast, in ways he doesn’t understand, and values he grew up with have become vaguely comic: courtesy, respect, stoicism, reticence. When did holding a door open for a woman become an insult? Teen-agers watching pornography on their phones. 

He wonders if it all comes down to Timothy, the friction that ended the marriage. Or whether, when you have a ready-made answer like that, you use it lazily for every question. The fact that their son’s behavior may be malicious is what makes it hardest to handle, Timothy wanting them to suffer. Three years without a postcard, an e-mail, a phone call. How angry he felt when Maria said that it would be better if Timothy were dead. Her own child. He has dreams of a blurred postmark. Lhasa? Marrakesh? Stepping off the plane into sauna shimmer. Hostels, cafés, some unshaven local policeman with his feet on the desk under an idle ceiling fan. The photograph in his pocket getting more dog-eared and faded by the day.
Fran returns yet again with the tennis ball. Leo is busy chasing something. So long as he doesn’t bring it back bloody and struggling. Ian hits the ball high into the air with a satisfying boink of the taut strings.
She isn’t with someone else, thank God. Unless she’s hiding it. Which wouldn’t be hard, him being blind to so many things.
There is movement at the edge of his field of vision now. Someone is walking along the gantry of the weir that runs between the farmland and the island. The lockkeeper, presumably, or an inspector from the Environment Agency. But then the person turns, and he sees a bright-red rucksack. It’s a woman. She must have lost her way. As far as he knows, you can reach the weir only via an unmarked track that descends from the hard shoulder of the ring road. Black leggings, denim skirt, big tartan shirt, long straight blond hair. Twenty, maybe twenty-five. She seems unsure of her footing and is supporting herself by holding onto the metal uprights and the rusted valves. It is not a good place to be unsteady on your feet.
Again Fran blocks the path in front of him, tail up, head down, panting, tennis ball between her paws.
Not now.
She whimpers. Please please. He picks it up, wallops it away, and starts walking upriver toward the lock.
Beneath the woman’s feet, the whole river is being forced through a single open gate, a fat silver spout curving into the churn of surf. The roar could be a house on fire. She comes to a halt at the very center of the weir. She is clearly in some kind of trouble. [REDACTED] dizziness, maybe, or that phobia people get on bridges. He can imagine standing there and looking down and being spooked by that torrent. He wants to call out to her, reassure her that he will be with her in a few minutes, but there is no way she will hear him at this distance and over that noise. He starts to run. If he remembers correctly, there is only a chain to keep pedestrians from crossing the lock. Presumably there is some kind of path through the trees. It will take him, what, two or three minutes?
Then he sees her let go of the supports. She is facing downriver and he realizes that she is planning to jump. Understands, too, why she was staggering, because why else would you wear a rucksack if you were planning to do something like that? He feels sick at the thought. “No!” He waves his arms, but she does not turn her head.
She pitches gently forward.
It is both more and less real than anything he has ever seen. Time really does slow down. Her blond hair rises like a candle flame. She seems completely relaxed, more like someone sleeping than like someone falling.
She vanishes into the foam.
Everything is suddenly back to normal. The dandelions, the clouds, the buzzard. For a few seconds he wonders if he really saw it. But Leo is standing on the bank beside him, barking at the water, and he understands that the woman is dying right now, somewhere out there, trapped in the stopper, perhaps, being tumbled and battered in that big drum of water. He takes his phone out of his trouser pocket but his hands are trembling too much to dial a number. Then he sees it in the water, the briefest flash of red.
His jacket and his shoes are off. He does not remember doing this.
Red again midstream. Both dogs at the bank now, barking.
He jumps into the shallows. This is a stupid thing to do. Weed and sucking mud. He throws himself forward in a clumsy half dive. The silty bottom reluctantly lets him go. The water is so cold his chest seizes and he cannot breathe. He gathers his energy and shouts the way he would shout if he were lifting a heavy weight. His ribs loosen.
It is nothing like the sea; it is nothing like a pool. The water sweeps him sideways. He can no longer touch the bottom with his feet. He realizes how big the river is now that he is inside it, how strong, how lost the woman must be, and how slim his chances are of finding her. He ducks under the surface, but the water is the cloudy green of Victorian bottle glass and he can see for a couple of feet at most. He lifts his head out of the water and sees how swiftly he is being carried downriver. The banks are hidden now behind half-submerged bushes and trapped flotsam, the flow narrowing and picking up speed to squeeze under the bridge. Below the bridge is the weir stream for the next lock. He is suddenly very alone and very frightened, an idiot who has jumped into a swollen river. His sodden clothes are shockingly heavy, and it is becoming increasingly hard to keep his head above water.
She looms out of the bubbling green and claws at his face.
Mostly he is angry that she has attacked him when he is risking his life to save her. Memories of lifesaving classes at school, Mr. Schiller with his speech impediment, pajama bottoms knotted at the ankles. He yanks her around so she’s facing away from him. Cup a hand under the chin, that was it. Her arms and legs are pedalling hard, trying to make a ladder of the water. Silver bubbles pour from her nose and mouth. He can’t keep her mouth above the surface. The rucksack. Christ. He’d forgotten. He doesn’t have the strength but the idea of not doing it is unbearable. He gulps as much air as he can, then ducks under. They sink together, the big red ballast pulling them down. He turns her around and grabs at the belt. Which sort of buckle is it? [REDACTED] darkness overhead. The bridge. They’re moving fast. He needs a knife. He doesn’t have a knife. Yank, squeeze, twist. She is punching him and grabbing his hair but whether she is trying to get to the surface or keep him from undoing the rucksack he cannot tell. His lungs are crying out for air. Don’t breathe. A vicious scrabbling panic. His thoughts are becoming blurred, his brain starting to shut down.
Some fierce animal hunger for life wipes the woman from his mind. He kicks upward—hang on, hang on—and bursts into sunlight. He heaves down a lungful of air and dirty water, chokes and coughs it out, then sucks down another lungful. Then a third. She is down there somewhere, dying, dead. He can hear the dogs barking nearby.
She surfaces suddenly beside him, head above the water now. No rucksack. He must have got it off. Her eyes are closed. She’s not moving. He grabs her hair this time. No time for niceties. She doesn’t respond. Maybe he is dragging a corpse. He swims with one arm, breaststroke legs. Way past the bridge now. A hundred metres until the weir stream peels off and drags them sideways. He swims hard in the other direction, grabbing the end of a thorny branch. It snaps. He grabs another and it holds. They swing toward the bank and slow down as they are pulled out of the main current. The bottom. He can feel it, thank God. Sludge and roots. He heaves her shoulders upright so she’s sitting in the shallow water. A reedy foot of bank between two brambles. The dogs stand side by side watching them. Is she breathing? He can’t tell.
One last effort. He gets a firmer purchase under his feet and hoists her onto the grass. So heavy for such a tiny thing. Her flopping head smacks the ground as he rolls her onto her front. Recovery position, left knee up, left elbow up.
He collapses onto all fours beside her, breathing hard. He is seeing stars, pinpricks of light swarming across his retinas. He waits for his vision to clear, and slowly the rest of the world comes back into focus. Absurd quiet all around. Two red admirals. An ant walks over his finger.
Her skin is gray-blue. Her earrings are little chains of turquoise beads with silver spacers, hippieish, a kind he hasn’t seen in a long time. He has an image of her looking into a lacquer box on her bedside table, choosing what to wear on her last day. Would you think about that kind of thing? The leggings have been ripped away from her right leg, and there is a bloody gash down her thigh. His own hand is bleeding. Those thorns? He can’t see her chest moving. He takes hold of her wrist to check her pulse and it’s like pressing a button. She vomits up a pint of river water and what looks like breakfast cereal. She coughs violently, then rolls onto her back. Her eyes are still closed, her hair matted and tangled.
He takes his phone out. A single air bubble is trapped under the waterlogged screen like a ball bearing in a puzzle. Damn. The car is sixty yards away, his shoes and jacket three hundred. He can’t leave her alone. The keys are in his pocket, though. “Come on.” He squats and slips his hands under her armpits. Fireman’s lift. He carries her toward the car. Thorns and sheep shit under his socks. Most days he is desperate to have the place to himself, but today there is no one. Sod’s law. He’s freezing. And he’s got a decent layer of fat on him. Up the steps and through the kissing gate, which clangs shut behind them. Fran and Leo are standing by the car, waiting patiently, guardians, eerily human. He shifts the woman’s center of gravity to extract the key from his pocket. He unlocks the doors and whisks the rug off the back seat with one hand before the dogs leap on top of it.
He props her against the car and wraps the rug around her. Mud and hair and dog stink. Her whole body is shivering. He opens the passenger door and lowers her in, banging her head a second time. “Let’s get you to a hospital,” he says. She makes a noise that may or may not be a word. He does up her safety belt. You don’t want to save her from drowning then break her neck in an accident.
He starts the ignition and twists the heater to max. A burst of Garth Brooks till he turns the radio off. The air in the car is still warm from the journey down, thankfully. Something almost fun about it now, dripping wet, driving in his socks, the glow of post-heroics.
As he drives back down the Woodstock Road she says something.
“I didn’t catch that.”
Slurred words, head lolling. “Not the hospital.”
“Well, I’m not going to leave you by the side of the road.”
She reaches out and puts her hand on his forearm and it is the first time that anyone has touched him with anything approaching tenderness in a long time. It is this moment that will come back to him later when he asks himself why he did something so stupid. “Please.”
He doesn’t turn onto the Marston Ferry Road toward the hospital. He takes her home.
He parks outside the house and leaves the engine running, and there is a moment of balance when the day could roll either way. But when he imagines walking her into the hospital and handing her to a nurse and watching her vanish though those automated doors he feels something painful he doesn’t have a name for. He twists the key and takes it out of the ignition.
He lets the dogs out, unclips her seat belt, lifts her onto her feet then into his arms.
“I don’t want . . .”
“It’s not the hospital.” He kicks the door shut.
Having juggled her sideways down the hall he lays her on the sofa, where she curls up like a dormouse. The shivering has become shaking. He drags the old electric fire from the bottom of the coat cupboard. Central heating on, thermostat to twenty-two. And realizes, only now, that he will need to undress her if he is going to get her warm and dry. Maria’s voice in his head. How did this not occur to you? Fran is in the spare armchair. He can hear Leo eating biscuits from the clangy metal bowl in the kitchen. There is a smell of burning dust as the elements heat up and turn orange. He goes upstairs. Tracksuit bottoms, sweatshirt, woolly socks, towel.
“I’m getting you into dry clothes,” he says. She does not respond. He unlaces her black boots. He has a flash of Timothy when he was tiny. Buckles and poppers and Velcro. Socks off.
He unbuttons her denim skirt, puts a hand under her hips, lifts her an inch or two off the rug from the car, pulls the skirt out, then rolls down her torn black leggings. His hand briefly pressed to her flesh, the weight of her. Scrawny thighs and damp white knickers with pink roses on them. A tiny rose of pink ribbon on the waistband. A little curl of pubic hair coming out from under the hem. That long bloody cut on her goosepimpled skin. Memories of being this close to other young bodies. Maria, Jane Taylor, Mona Kerr, Jamila, a woman at a party in Dalston whose name went long ago but whose laugh and whose perfect plump stomach come back to him in dreams every now and then. The thrill of unwrapping someone for the first time.
He starts to take her sodden knickers off but it frightens him, what he might feel, what she might think. He leaves them on and pats her dry as best he can. Blood on the towel. He slips the tracksuit trousers on, one leg at a time. They are ridiculously baggy. He slips his socks over her tiny feet.
“Where am I?”
He sits her up to slide off her tartan shirt and shows her the sweatshirt. “You need to put this on.”
She’s gone again, fuzzy, uncompliant. Bloody hell. He unbuttons her blouse. No bra. He fears that someone is going to materialize at the window or walk through the door. Skinny ribs and small breasts. Such pale skin. He leans forward to pull the blouse down her arms, trying to touch her as little as possible. He sits back and can’t stop himself. He looks at her, naked from the waist up, for thirty seconds maybe, unable to take his eyes away. To his surprise, he is on the verge of tears. So many lost things. He cloaks her with the towel, gently rubbing her arms and back and shoulders. Like Timothy after a bath. More gently still, he presses the towel to her chest and stomach. The soft give of her breasts under his hand. He puts the towel aside and slips the sweatshirt over her head. Right arm, left arm. He lifts her briefly to remove the wet rug.
He stands behind the sofa to rub her hair with the towel while holding her head steady against his stomach. Timothy again. Feelings that shouldn’t be sharing the same space in his head. He has never felt so old. He puts the towel down. “I’ll get you a hot drink,” he tells her. She flops sideways and curls up again. She’s shaking less. Or is that wishful thinking?
Only when he tries to put the kettle on does he become aware of how bone-cold he is himself. It’s a relief to have this single, simple sensation consume him. He has to hold onto the bannister on the way upstairs. He drops his clothes on the bathroom floor. He should have a hot shower but he can’t leave her on her own down there. He dries himself with a new towel from the airing cupboard and pulls on some jeans, a shirt, the big jumper Maria bought for him in Oslo. Walking socks, then a scarf from the newel post. That cold slab still sitting at his core.
The kettle rumbles to a climax and clicks off. Instant coffee for speed, with a spoonful of sugar. He sits her up again, and she helps a little this time. “Hold this.” She puts her hands around the mug at least and balances it on her knees.
He says, “You’re all right now,” which sounds ridiculous as soon as he says it, because it might seem like a disaster, finding herself alive after all that. The memory of that water, the sheer mass and speed of it.
She leans her head back, eyes closed, and breathes out. She’s ugly, almost. The blond hair fooled him. Big features, wonky nose. “Fuck,” she says. “Fucking fuck.”
He’s never been comfortable with people swearing. “My name’s Ian.”
She doesn’t offer her own.
“Why didn’t you want to go to the hospital?”
She lifts her head and opens her eyes and looks at the tracksuit trousers, the sweatshirt, the socks. “What did you do to me?”
“I put you into dry clothes.”
“Did you rape me?”
He is too surprised to think of an answer.
“You took my clothes off.” She’s panicking. “Where are my clothes?”
A rush of terror. The thoughts that came into his head as he was undressing her. Was she just pretending to be unconscious? “You jumped into the river.”
She is suddenly calm again. “Yeah. I do that kind of thing.” She laughs a humorless laugh.
His heart is hammering. “But you’re alive.”
“They stick needles into you.” She sounds drunk. He wonders if she took pills before going to the river. “They cover you in wires, like a monkey in a lab. They find out what you’re thinking.”
“Your clothes are in the kitchen.” The adrenaline is ebbing a little. “I’ll dry them for you.”
“The small print on that form that no one reads?” She drinks the sugary coffee. “They can do anything.”
Were they really in the Thames less than half an hour ago?
“I fuck everything up. It’s my thing.”
The sour self-pity in her voice, daring him to reach out and have his hand slapped away. He’s disappointed to realize that he doesn’t like her very much. “Sorry I saved you.” It’s meant to sound wry and funny, but he’s shocked by how close it comes to what he’s feeling.
“I’m so fucking cold.”
He fetches her a scarf left years ago by some forgetful dinner guest. “Why did you do it?”
“Like you’d understand.”
“Try me.”
“You’re just being ‘nice.’ ” She does quote marks with her fingers, as if she were fifteen. “No one actually cares.”
He bites his lip. Then he can’t stop himself. “You don’t throw a life away.” It’s Timothy he’s thinking about, of course, the nights when he never came home, those God-awful semi-homeless friends, the smell of them. “Someone cares. Your parents, your brother, your sister, your friends, your neighbors, your doctor, the teachers you had at school, at college, even if it’s only the poor bastard who has to pull your body out of the river.” He’s choking up a little. He’s never thought of it this way—that a life is something held in common, that we lose a little of ourselves with every death. Or is it just the desperate hope that some frail strand still connects him to his son, the tiny tug of which might one day bring him home?
“Whoa, there.” She holds up her hand in a comedy stop gesture but without smiling.
“I nearly died,” he says. He wants very much to have the house to himself again. “I’m not asking you for thanks, but the least you can do is to take this seriously.”
She crumples and starts to cry. Are they real tears? He’s not sure.
“I should take you to the hospital. Someone needs to sort out that cut on your leg.”
“I told you. I’m really, really frightened of hospitals.” This feels like the truth.
“Because?” 
“They get inside your mind.” She puts her hand against her head as if her thoughts were precious or painful. She is still shivering.
It seems obvious now, the possibility that she’s mentally ill. He feels stupid for not having thought about it before. He has no idea what to say. He is out of his depth.
She says, very quietly, as if she might be overheard, “Everything talks.” She sounds younger now. Twelve? Ten? Eight years old?
“I’m sorry. I don’t understand.”
“Trees, walls, that clock, this wood. Your dogs.”
She’s so sure of herself that he very nearly asks her what they’re saying.
“Stones just repeat themselves,” she says, “over and over. I’m a stone, I’m a stone. Walls gossip all the time. The stuff they’ve had to listen to over the years. If you go into a graveyard, you can hear the dead talking underground.”
She’s crazy, clearly, but she doesn’t sound crazy. She sounds like a sane person who lives in a world that is different from this one.
She cocks her head slightly, the way Leo and Fran do when they catch an interesting smell. She says, “This house is not happy,” which unnerves him more than it should. “I used to think that everyone could hear these things.” She closes her eyes and takes a deep breath. “Then I realized that it was only me. Some days the only thing I want is silence.”
He asks if she has any family. He needs to find someone else who can be responsible for her, who can take her off his hands.
“My brother fucked off to [REDACTED]. My dad’s got emphysema.”
“Your mum?”
“She’s got a shitload of her own stuff to deal with.”
“You haven’t got a boyfriend, a husband?”
“Yeah, right.” Another humorless laugh.
He thinks what hard work she must be and wonders how many times she’s tried something like this.
“I don’t want to be here.” She’s crying again.
He assumes at first that she is referring to his house and he’s relieved. Then he realizes what she means and is scared of what she might do. Fran is out of the armchair, both dogs pacing now, the way they do during storms. He says, “I need a hot drink,” and leaves the room, to give himself space to think, mostly.
He puts the kettle on again and leans against the sink. The garden is a mess. A plank is missing from the fence that separates him from the angry Greek couple next door. A football of unknown provenance is dying slowly in the spring grass, which is already too long to mow. He should gravel the whole thing over, get a couple of hardy plants in big tubs, but he doesn’t have the energy.
“Why are we still married?” Maria had asked. Companionship? he’d thought. The comfort of sharing your life with someone who knows you better than anyone else in the world? “I’m afraid of being alone,” she’d said. “Isn’t that terrible?” Though it seemed like a pretty good reason to him.
He’s still freezing on the inside. He squats with his back against the radiator. Now that he is out of the woman’s presence he can see things more clearly. She tried to kill herself. She hears voices. She needs to go to a hospital. He gets to his feet, quietly retrieves the cordless from the hall table, and gently closes the kitchen door.


“Fifteen minutes,” the woman says. He feels warmer suddenly. In a quarter of an hour he can put something in the microwave, bring the duvet down, dig out a box set.
He makes his coffee and returns to the living room. She’s hugging the green seashell cushion. “You were a long time.”
“Sorry.”
She looks at him, hard. “Did you ring someone?”
Does he answer too quickly or too slowly?
“Fucking hell. Who did you ring?”
“Look.” He puts the coffee down and sits on the arm of Fran’s chair.
“You rang for a fucking ambulance, didn’t you. You rang for a fucking ambulance. Jesus. All that being-interested bollocks. Fuck you.”
He grabs her arm as she pushes past. “Get your fucking hands off me.”
She’s in the hall.
“Wait. You need shoes.”
She fumbles with the lock, the door opens, and she runs out. He sees the car before she does. The driver hits the brakes hard, the bonnet goes down and the tail rises. A squeal of hard rubber on gritty tarmac which will leave two black marks for months afterward. She turns toward the car, holding up her hands like Moses parting the Red Sea, and it comes to a halt, only inches from her legs, aslant, the tires smoking, as if she were a superhero and this were her power. Then she’s gone, down Asham Way in his socks.
The driver gets out. “What the fuck are you playing at? What did you do to her?”
The man doesn’t seem real enough to warrant a reply. Nothing seems real. He goes back inside, where the dogs are waiting for him, and reaches the sofa just before his knees go weak with the shock and he is forced to sit down. Both coffees have been knocked over and are soaking into the carpet. The heat from the electric fire stings his lower legs. Leo slides his drooly jaw over the arm of the sofa and he lays his hand flat along the dog’s warm flank to calm himself.
He stares at the tatty rainbow of VHS cases, the twelve-year-old Banbury half-marathon medal, the framed photo of Timothy at Wicksteed Park, his rare smile making up for the sun flare bleaching the right-hand side of the picture, the dog-eared postcards propped against the wall, the gap where Maria’s porcelain chimney sweep used to sit.
He forgets about the ambulance completely. The male paramedic seems vaguely pissed off by the wasted journey and not quite convinced by his story. He shows him and his female partner the pile of wet clothes on the kitchen floor. “I saved someone’s life.”
“Hey, buddy, we’re all having a tough day, all right?” The man looks not much older than a student.
The woman gives him a tight little smile, which may or may not be an embarrassed apology on her sour colleague’s behalf. She is plump and ginger-haired, her eyebrows almost white.
The man radios in a description of the woman. “Nope. Nothing as helpful as a name.”
Perhaps he’s asking too much. They save lives every day. Does anyone thank them?
They leave and he returns to the sofa. His body does not feel cold as such, just restless and wrong. He picks up the seashell cushion and hugs it. He sits very still. He can hear the deep, dull sluice of his blood in his ears and behind it, far away, that faint high whine, not really a noise at all, the background radiation of the mind.
He sits and listens.
I’m a stone, I’m a stone, I’m a stone.
For weeks, he pictures her heading straight back to the river. He checks the newspapers, wanting reassurance that his failure wasn’t catastrophic. He looks forward to being congratulated at the office for his heroics, then realizes that it will happen only if someone else tells the story and he downplays his involvement. Anyone would have done the same thing. And the heroics aren’t important. Something else happened, which he can’t put into words and which he might not risk sharing if he could.
Maria comes around to take more of her belongings. He doesn’t tell her about the incident. She is buoyant, or acts buoyancy with complete conviction. She says, “I’m worried about you,” though how—or whether—this is meant to help he is not sure.
It’s true that the house is getting messier and dirtier, but he doesn’t have the energy to hoover and sweep and sponge and tidy. Who, in any case, does he need to impress? He senses the slippery slope beneath his feet but the tingle of fear is not enough to goad him to action.
It becomes obvious to him not just that he is depressed but that he has been depressed for a long time, his low mood so constant that it remained undetected until it was inescapable; he’s like a lobster in a warming pot, claws scrabbling at the metal rim.
He wakes in the middle of the night gasping for air. That cloudy green water. Sometimes it’s the woman sinking into the darkness below him; sometimes it’s Timothy. Sometimes he’s crossing the gantry himself with a rucksack full of stones and he trips and falls into the foam while Maria stands on the bank with the dogs and does nothing. Occasionally he lets himself fall willingly and feels a moment of easeful bliss midair, before he realizes what is going to happen to him under the water, and this is the most frightening dream of all.
She turns up at the front door on a Saturday afternoon three weeks later. He doesn’t recognize her at first. She’s dressed for the office: cream blouse, charcoal jacket and trousers, hair scraped back.
“I came to get my clothes.” It is the surliness that gives her away. “If you’ve still got them.”
He can’t conceal his joy. “I’m glad you’re O.K.”
She nods carefully, as if she can think of no reason that she shouldn’t be O.K. Maybe trying to take your own life is not something you want to be reminded of. She waits outside the door while he fetches the bag.
“You washed them. Wow.”
“As opposed to leaving them wet all this time?”
“I guess.” There is no mention of his own sweatshirt and tracksuit trousers and socks. “Cheers, anyway.”
“You never told me your name.” He doesn’t want her to leave, not yet.
She pauses and says, “Kelly,” with just enough wariness for him to wonder whether she has pulled the name out of thin air.
“Do you want a cup of coffee?”
“That’s kind of weird.”
“Not here. In a café, maybe.” As if she really would be at risk coming into the house.
“I’ve got to get going.”
“I have a son.” He doesn’t talk about Timothy to anyone. “I haven’t heard from him for three years. I haven’t seen him for seven.”
“And?” Her expression doesn’t change.
“I don’t know if he’s alive or dead.”
She has a silent discussion with herself for a few seconds, then nods. “Ten minutes, all right? But don’t go all strange on me.”
She is prickly company on the walk to Starbucks and not much easier over a cup of tea and a Danish pastry. He tells her about Maria leaving. She tells him that she works for the Parking and Permits Office at the council. He tells her about Timothy. She tells him about her father going into the John Radcliffe. Neither of them mentions what happened in the river. Ten minutes becomes half an hour. Reluctantly, she gives him her mobile number before she leaves, but, to his surprise, it is she who sends him a text the following week, saying, “I suppose you’d like another coffee.”
“Friends” is the wrong word. She’s twenty-four; he’s fifty-three. Maybe there isn’t a right word. On a couple of occasions, they are seen by acquaintances or colleagues, who look away as if he were engaged in some kind of moral turpitude. She finds it funny, so he decides to find it funny.
She never does thank him for saving her, and slowly he realizes that thanks is not what he wants or needs. She tells him about her family, for which her description, “fucked up,” is something of an understatement, and about her antagonistic relationship with the medical profession, her patchy employment record, the law degree she never finished, the shitty boyfriends she chose because their opinion of her chimed with her own, the kind boyfriends whose sympathy and patience made them insufferable. She talks about the voices and the changing drug regimen, which keeps them temporarily at bay. She tells him how the voices torment her and how flat the world seems when she can’t hear them.
For years. Once a fortnight or thereabouts. He tells her about the divorce and Maria’s remarriage, to a man nine years her junior, about a series of Internet dates, which range from the bizarre to the slightly sordid to the very nearly but not quite right. He tells her about the melanoma on his back, which he discovers late and which scares the living daylights out of him for the best part of six months.
She never passes judgment or tries to cheer him up. It irritates him at first, but he begins to understand that both of these things are ways of steering someone away from the things you don’t want to hear. She listens better than anyone he knows. Or maybe it’s just that she doesn’t interrupt. And maybe that’s enough.
She rotates among Danish pastry, almond croissant, and millionaire’s shortbread. The tea is a constant. Him paying, ditto. Though for a couple of months, when she’s going through what she refers to as “a particularly shitty patch,” they have to relocate to the café at the Warneford Hospital. Sometimes she is unforthcoming and ill-tempered. Sometimes they simply sit in each other’s company like an old married couple or two cows in a pasture. Companionship, though not in a way he’d pictured it. There are periods when she feels suicidal, though discussing her plans in gruesome detail seems to calm her, and she always reappears for their next meeting.
He still wonders sometimes if Kelly is her real name.
Four years after he fished her out of the river, Timothy comes home, older and thinner and bearded, with everything he owns squeezed into a single kit bag. Ian’s relief rapidly gives way to the disappointed realization that his son is not very different from the young man who went away all those years ago, and that he has returned not to heal wounds or build bridges but because there was a fire at the house he was looking after over the winter for a wealthy couple in Majorca, the details of which are clearly more complicated than his version suggests. Timothy is alternately distant and manipulative and, unexpectedly, it is Maria who suffers the most, feeding him and buying him clothes and letting him stay in her spare room until her new husband delivers the inevitable ultimatum. She loans Timothy a thousand pounds for a security deposit on a flat and the first month’s rent, and three days later he’s gone.
“Wow,” Kelly says.
“I feel like an idiot. All those years, I imagined this [REDACTED] homecoming. Him being sorry, us being overjoyed. And now I know it’s never going to happen.”
They sit quietly for a long time.
He says, “I’m going to do the garden. I’m sick of looking out onto a piece of wasteland.”
He does the garden. He cuts the grass. He lays gravel over black plastic. Tubs, a couple of New Zealand ferns, a bench. He mends the fence and creosotes it. He buys a bird table and puts out seeds and crusts and little chunks of fat. And when he thinks about Timothy now it doesn’t hurt so much.
Leo dies. He is fifteen. Fran takes to her basket two months later and is dead within the month. She, too, is fifteen. Liver cancer, the vet says, though Ian knows it was heartbreak. They’ve had good, long lives. And, in any case, he has arthritis in both hips now, and walking them had become increasingly difficult.
He says, “I feel lonely.”
“Yeah?” She sips her tea.
He says, “I’m getting old.”
She says, “I guess you are.”
He says, “I’m frightened of dying,” though just saying it out loud like that takes some of the sting out of it.
She says, “I’ll come to your funeral.”
He says, “They’ll wonder who you are.”
She says, “I’m sure they will.”
He still dreams of the river, the thunder of the weir, the currents unfurling downstream. May blossom and cirrus clouds. He is no longer drowning. No one is drowning. Though they will all go down into the dark eventually. Him, Maria, Kelly, Timothy. . . . And the last few minutes may be horrible, but that’s O.K., it really is, because nothing is lost and the river will keep on flowing and there will be dandelions in spring and the buzzard will circle above the wasteland. 

