Honey Bunny
By Julianne Pachico
He comes up to her on the dance floor. “Nice purse,” he says almost immediately.
“Nice Charlie Brown sweater,” she says. She actually means it, too. She glimpsed him at the bar earlier, talking to his friends, and the black zigzag stripe running around his torso had made her smile, despite herself, into her cosmopolitan.
His name is Tony. He’s a law student at N.Y.U., originally from [REDACTED], now living in Williamsburg. “So where are you from?” he asks as he passes the bartender his credit card.
She says it as the bass drops and the crowd of dancers lets out a cheer.
“You mean, like, Columbia University?” he shouts.
 “Sure,” she says. Her purse tonight is made of striped Andean cloth, yellow and red, with blue tassels. It’s big and bulky. People keep brushing up against it as they crowd toward the bar.
He’s still smiling, as if waiting for her to go on. So she leans in close and whispers into his ear, using as much hot breath as possible: “I’ve got some goodies, if you’re interested.”
They stumble outside four hours later, blinking in the watery light like woodland creatures emerging from hibernation. Eventually, he runs his fingers through his hair and says, “You taking the A train?”
As the subway car pulls out of the station with a groan, he turns to her and says, “You have something on your nose.” He reaches out, fingers fluttering by her nostrils like a blurry peach moth, and she ducks.
“Please don’t touch me,” she says, taking out a folded square of toilet paper. The baggie is in the ladies’ room at the club, licked clean and crumpled, crammed in the disposal can for sanitary pads.
“Sorry,” he says, not sounding that upset. He crosses his legs and wraps his fingers around his kneecap, as if cuddling it. The wrist poking out of his jacket is still a [REDACTED]-winter pale. 

She dabs the toilet paper against her nostrils, sniffing loudly. Sitting across from them is a group of three girls. They’re wearing flower-patterned dresses, glittery American Apparel leggings, long dangly earrings, brown oxfords. One girl is leaning forward with her head bowed, cradling a giant green backpack in her lap like a baby. Without staring at the girls too directly, she can tell that their eyeliner isn’t smudged, their hair is smooth and straightened, their concealer still effectively hiding any blemishes on their upper jawlines. She swallows and rubs the toilet paper against her nose even harder, letting out a cough for good measure.
“So what are your plans for today?” Tony says, reaching for an untied shoelace. Hours earlier, she’d mistaken it for a long black worm drowning in a puddle as they stood smoking outside the club entrance.
She almost says, “Watch porn and masturbate,” but instead says, “Just chilling, I guess.” Was it a thick clump, clinging to her nostril hairs? A delicate crust around the rims? Did she look like the Dormouse, abruptly waking up after falling asleep in the sugar bowl at the Mad Hatter’s tea party?
“I might cook some steak, if I go to the store.” His eyes are bloodshot, but his pale skin is clear.
“Cool,” she says, furiously digging in her nose as deep as she can. One of the girls, the one with perfectly straight bangs, is staring at her, or maybe she’s just looking vacantly at the subway map on the wall behind her.
“Maybe some chile con carne. Chili with flesh.” He laughs.
Carne means “meat,” but she doesn’t correct him. She’s about to tell him that sounds good when something thin peels away from her nostril wall. It makes a faint crackling sound beneath her fingernail. She tries to stay calm as she yanks it out, ripping some nose hairs, cupping it in her palm as her eyes water. She can hear the girls’ voices in her head, mouths forming O’s and eyes bulging as they stare and nudge each other: “OMG, look at her, she’s totally Michael Jacksoning!”
It’s a dry leaf. Disintegrating in her hand, crumbling into thin brown flakes. She can suddenly feel the stem, shoved high up her nasal cavity, scratchy and tickling. She smashes her nose against her cardigan sleeve and blows hard.
“Whoa!” Tony says. The girl with the green backpack looks up, and one of her friends makes a noise that could be either a cough or a choked laugh.
She squeezes the leaf bits tightly in her fist and drops them onto the floor, wiping her hand off on her bare leg. For a second, she thinks she hears giggling, but when she looks up the girls haven’t moved. She makes eye contact with the backpack girl, who raises her eyebrows and pulls her lips inward, the classic American expression of feigning indifference.
As the subway car slowly whines to a stop, she says, “This is me,” at the same moment that Tony says, “So, I’ll see you around?”
She’s calling Paco the second she steps into her apartment. When his voice mail beeps, she’s already speaking, her recording starting in midsentence: “—some nerve. I don’t know what you’re doing, but that’s some serious bullshit, man. That shit is not O.K. And I know that you know what I’m talking about, so please don’t bother to pretend otherwise.” She likes the way her voice sounds as she moves around the kitchen, picking up and putting down dirty glasses, streaked with the grainy smears of ancient smoothies. She can hear [REDACTED] in her voice—the years of arguing with [REDACTED] dealers, the grinning college boys at Upper West Side house parties. Her head suddenly fills with an image of her grandmother, the way she’d lean against the kitchen doorframe back home, brow furrowed as she reprimanded the maid with kind, expansive hand gestures: I just don’t understand, you see. What is so hard about following the menu that I specifically wrote up for you? Do you think you could maybe explain that to me?
She hangs up and tosses her cell phone onto a puppy-shaped pillow on the floor. Paco is Guatemalan, so every once in a while when speaking to him she’ll slyly throw in the odd Spanish word or two, a curse word or even a dicho, just to show that yeah, O.K., she’s lived in [REDACTED] for what, fifteen years now, but she still knows how to conjugate verbs, knows which nouns are feminine versus masculine. She’s not like those Bogotanos she keeps meeting at warehouse raves, those Barranquillan trust-fund babies or Caleña sugarcane-plantation heirs, who spent their whole lives in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED] and now try to pretend they’re bicultural-bilingual when she knows the truth, that they’re no better than any common gringo. (Something that she herself most definitely is not. No way. Not a chance. “Gringo” is a word she’s always hated, fat and puffy and pastry-shaped in her mouth.) “I’m not the cow that shits the most,” she’ll say to Paco on the phone, keeping her voice as casual as possible, hands shaking with excitement, or “I’m not the kind of girl who gives away papaya, if you know what I mean.”
Paco always responds to her in English, though. It makes her feel strange. Once, she abruptly hung up on him, and when he called back she pretended she’d lost the signal.
She lets herself flop forward onto the bed. Her fashion-history class isn’t until 2 p.m. At this point, she usually takes a clonazepam and puts on a YouTube video of a girl showing off what’s in her bag or applying concealer to hide her acne. Either that or power through—keep the party going, as Tony said earlier, eyes fixed on her purse as she rapidly zipped it open—take an Adderall and finish her reading, maybe even sketch out some dress designs, post on her blog. Instead, she just lies there with her eyes closed, fingers tugging gently through her hair, brushing the strands thoughtfully against her mouth.
Paco. Most likely he’d have been in his overcrowded apartment in [REDACTED], a dying potted plant in the middle of the table. There must have been a dead insect somewhere, too, dangling from a dry leaf or something. Paco busy in front of his scales—pouring out, weighing, sorting, maybe even sniffing from time to time, his son crying in the bedroom. He must have knocked the plant with his elbow. Or maybe his kid snuck in while Paco was in the bathroom and started messing around, shaking the plant until its leaves fell off, giggling maniacally. Did that make sense? Was that how it could have happened? Did Paco have to measure it into baggies, or did they arrive as is, neatly lined up in suitcases? Did they come in bulky FedEx packages, bundled in brown packing tape and bubble wrap? In beat-up cardboard boxes? In secret compartments of carry-on athletic bags?
She rolls over and opens the desk drawer. There they are. Snuggling in the yellow envelope he’d handed to her in the Whole Foods parking lot. What once were five now are three. Lined up like stuffed animals, waiting for their turn to be picked up and held. She can’t help smiling as she remembers the stuffed-animal sleeping schedule she made when she was little. It took up at least two pages in her purple Barbie diary: three weeks’ worth of plush creatures, a different one every night so that they could all get a turn. Her favorites were Perrito, his Labrador tail sticking out of his candy-cane pants, hand-sewn by Leticia; Chinchilla, with the purple silk ribbon tied tightly around his neck; and Honey Bunny, gray-eared and floppy, smelling faintly of mothballs.
She reaches into the envelope, pulls out a baggie, and automatically starts rubbing it back and forth between her thumb and middle finger, breaking up the chunks inside. Monica at boarding school taught her this trick—dear Monica from [REDACTED], where she’d returned to do both her undergrad and Ph.D. She opens the baggie slowly, but of course there’s nothing there that’s out of the ordinary. Of course.
From where she’s lying, if she slides her eyeballs as far to the left as possible, she can see it: the orange suitcase, sitting placidly on top of her armoire, under the extra sheets and towels she never uses.
The smell hits her hard: the steam of chicken broth bubbling on the stove, warm and salty.
She abruptly shoves the baggie back into the envelope and slams the desk drawer shut. Lies down on the bed, eyes closed and palms pressing against her temples. The back of her throat is still dripping.

She’s in the elevator going up to her friend’s apartment. The doors close behind her as she unzips her purse with one hand, reaching the other deep inside, her fingers nimbly detecting the sparkly unicorn key chain. The keys rattle slightly as she pulls them out. Her purse today is covered in yawning jaguars, purple and orange and pink, their stitched bodies stretching and leaping across a black cloth background.
As her hand plunges back inside for the baggie, she imagines raging-hot infrared vision blasting from her fingertips, zooming in on the required materials with the expertise of Luke Skywalker’s computer detecting the Death Star. All forces ready! Mission accomplished! There it is, hidden in the tiny side pocket, next to her lipstick and lighter. Wrapped in a thin square of toilet paper. She loves keeping it tucked away like that, curled up in the darkness like an animal in a cave, taking it with her everywhere she goes, without anybody ever having any idea that it’s there. As she pulls it out, the fluttering in her chest moves down to her stomach.
She has already scooped the key inside when she sees it. Half buried in the powder, but unmistakable.
An insect wing. Brown and translucent. Oval-shaped. Faint veins like the underside of a decayed leaf. Like the wings that dangled from the orange flyswatters wielded by the maids back home. What were their names again? Nellie and Rosa. Pastora and Leticia. They’d shake the dead insects into the tanks of tropical fish while she watched, pressing her nose against the glass. The fish would rush toward the surface, mouths plopping open and shut. It got to be so that whenever anybody picked up a flyswatter the fish would go crazy, eyes bulging as they clustered at the surface, frothing the water from their desperate hunger.
The elevator dings and her hand shoots forward, pressing hard on the “close door” button. She pulls out the wing and throws it on the floor, jamming the baggie and keys back into her purse. Before taking her finger off the button, she looks down at the shiny elevator floor. All she sees is a blurry reflection of her Nordstrom high heels, the ones she likes to think of as her Beyoncé shoes. It looks as if she were swimming on the opposite side of a mirror, upside down, shoes barely skimming the surface, on the verge of breaking through to the air above.
At the party, two different girls admire her purse, saying, “That’s cute—where did you get it?”
“I’m not sure,” she says both times. “It was a gift.”
Then she excuses herself to go to the bathroom.
She doesn’t mention it to Paco. Not the wrinkled flower petal at the bottom of the third baggie, found as she was crouching behind a tree in [REDACTED], poking her spit-dampened pinkie finger in for the very last crumbs. Not the Communion wafer in the fourth, sticking out like a sundae decoration. (She remembers the visiting Jesuit priests bringing tiny plastic bags filled with these bland white disks as gifts, how she would steal them to eat in her room with orange marmalade and feed them unblessed to her dolls, until her grandmother caught her and, with a scandalized frown, put an end to the sacrament.) The fifth one she poured out onto a dinner plate so that she could use her eyebrow tweezers to pick out the crumbling fragments of moss and bark.
She doesn’t bring it up—not a word as she sits in Paco’s Volvo, her back ramrod straight, squeezing the jaguar purse between her knees, resisting the urge to look for split ends that she can break off with her teeth. Paco’s wife is driving them around the Whole Foods parking garage while he digs into his bag in the front seat. His son is sitting next to her, strapped into his car seat. His Spider-Man shirt has a white stain on the front that might be toothpaste, and his eyes are fixed on his Game Boy, birds and pigs flying across the fingerprint-smudged screen.
“So,” she says to Paco’s son (did he go by Paco, too? Or was it Junior?), “where do you want to go to college? Like, when you grow up?”
“What’s that?” he says, eyes still on the Game Boy.
She doesn’t ask him any more questions.
“Here you go, mija,” Paco says, turning around and passing her the yellow envelope. She leans forward and shoves the fistful of bills into his hands. She had it all counted out fifteen minutes before they were supposed to meet, her H & M heels clicking against the concrete floor as she paced.
“I have some Adderall, too, if you’re out,” he says. “OxyContin. Molly.” He lists the names like World Cup team members.
“That’s O.K.” Now that she has the envelope, all she wants is to get out of the car as soon as possible. He hasn’t brought up her voice mail yet, but if he does she has a plan: she’ll just say, “Oh, ha-ha, the stuff just wasn’t as strong as last time. No big deal, it happens.” If only she could force the door open with her shoulder and roll across the parking-garage floor like an action hero, chin tucked into her chest and arms wrapped around her torso, hugging the envelope close. She has to take a deep breath to stop herself from breaking into a wide grin. Beside her, Paco’s son lets out a lusty yawn.
“It was good to hear from you,” Paco says as his wife pulls into a parking spot that says “Customers Only.” “It’d been a while—I was worried!” He laughs as his wife twists around, unlocking the back door.
She opens her mouth to answer him in Spanish, but the words don’t come, her tongue thick and helpless, hesitating against her teeth. So she has to say it in English instead, slowly: “You don’t ever have to worry about me.”
When she gets out she doesn’t shut the car door hard enough, so Paco’s wife has to rap on the window and signal for her to do it again. She waits until they’ve turned the corner before ducking behind a concrete pillar. Her fingernails are too shredded, so she rips the envelope open with her teeth.
Checking one is enough. This time there’s a tiny gray drumstick bone, smothered in powder, as if ready to be dropped into spitting-hot frying oil.
It’s easy to identify the feeling as she seals the baggie and shoves it back into the envelope. It’s an unmistakable sense of relief.
She crawls into bed that night with numb lips, her body shivering, dressed in her lime-green miniskirt and ballerina flats. The apartment has smelled like a smoky wood fire for two days now, with the faint undertone of stale powdered milk. She’d let No. 6 flutter away on the subway tracks (the blast of air from the incoming train made it dance around like a transparent butterfly); No. 7, half full, hibernates for now in her purse, jaguars again.
“You got it from where?” one of her classmates had said at the restaurant. “Wait, did you go there on vacation? You’re so brave!”
“I went to Cartagena last year,” another one said as the waiter brought a second bottle of wine to the table. “Everyone was so friendly.”
She reaches for her laptop, pulls it across the mattress until it bumps against her chin; she tugs the tip of her ponytail into her mouth. Instead of watching a makeup tutorial, though, she starts surfing Google Earth. She can’t remember the name of the street she grew up on, but she manages to find the international private school she attended from kindergarten to third grade. There are hardly any blue dots on the screen, linking to street-view photographs, so the tiny orange Google man keeps refusing to be dragged onto the map, rushing stubbornly back to the compass again and again. She clicks on the school Web-site link and scrolls through pages of photos of three-walled classrooms, the kiosks with palm-thatched roofs, gymnasium murals of floating peace signs and multicolored citizens holding hands. It makes her dizzy. It’s the same feeling she gets when she passes Mexican families on the street, speaking rapid slang-filled Spanish, or when Puerto Rican construction workers catcall her with words she doesn’t recognize, as if they were speaking to her from a parallel universe, one she should understand but just doesn’t. The feeling gets stronger with every photograph she clicks through, the parallel reality brushing up against her, sleazily pressing its weight against her torso, breathing wetly into her ear.
She drags the cursor across the screen, chewing on her hair, clicking on whatever pitiful scattering of dots she can find. It makes her feel as though she were surveying an apocalyptic wasteland, searching for the tiniest signs of life. She finds the traffic light where the black man from the coast sold mango Popsicles and tiny bags of salt out of a Styrofoam cooler; when the school bus stopped, she would lean out the windows with the rest of the kids to hand him a five-hundred-peso coin. She finds the metal gate of the Jewish country club, where her grandmother would take her on weekends for tennis games on red clay courts, swimming lessons, lunches of ham-and-cheese sandwiches brought by a scraggly-haired waitress she secretly called Mafalda, after the comic-book character. She finds the nature park filled with lagoons and herons and cicada-covered trees, where she would walk her grandmother’s poodle in circles, her bodyguard and chauffeur sweating under the acacia and ceiba trees at the entrance, eyes never leaving her.
And then she finds a photo of a gray stone wall with shards of glass jutting along the top and an enormous automatic gate. The country house of one of her classmates. A giant ranch on the city’s edge. She zooms in. She went there in kindergarten once for a birthday party—she and her classmates gathered at the airport to take the short helicopter ride. They stayed all day: swimming in an enormous blue-tiled pool, breaking open piñatas hanging from mango trees, chasing each other around angel statues and marble fountains. There were colorful balloons tied to a swing set, and charred-black hot dogs grilled on a barbecue pit. And then there were the animals: a wooden birdhouse full of macaws and peacocks, a parrot that could recite the names of all the players on the national football team, a spider monkey that could kick a football, and a lion that slept in its iron cage all afternoon, no matter how loudly they rattled the bars and shouted. And the rabbits, snuggling in their metal hutch with their nests of knotted white fur, noses nervously quivering. She and her friends pushed blades of grass in between the bars for them to nibble on, calling out, “Hey, little guy, sweet little thing,” wiggling their fingers at the blinking pink eyes.

At one point, the birthday girl (Melissa? María?) had come up to her. “If we stand under the drainpipe together,” she whispered, “and sing a song to Candy Bird, he’ll come visit us.” So they stood by the jacaranda bushes, arms linked and faces turned upward, singing the same verse over and over: “Candy Bird, Candy Bird, come see me.” And then, as if by magic, candy started raining down from the sky. It hit them on the forehead and cheekbones, coffee-flavored caramels and Milo malt balls, Jet chocolate bars and Bon Bon Bum lollipops. At the sight of the candy, everyone started screaming and ran over, scrambling and diving in the grass, clods of dirt flying. It was like a piñata but better—you couldn’t see where it was coming from. She hadn’t hesitated to join in, elbowing others out of the way and scooping up, with grim-faced determination, as much candy as she could carry.
She knows now, of course, that it must have been one of the maids, or maybe the gardeners or chauffeurs, ordered to hide behind a curtain upstairs and throw candy out the window for the guests’ amusement. How long had they waited? Standing there and watching the children scream and fight for sweets.
Tracing the spit-soaked tip of her ponytail over her numb lips, she reaches for her computer cord on the floor, the battery icon now a thin red line. By keeping her eyes fixed on the screen, she avoids the possibility of glimpsing the orange suitcase, still resting on top of the armoire.
No matter how many times she zooms in on Google Earth, though, the house remains a blur. All she can see is the fuzzy smears of the mango trees on the other side of the wall and the light glinting off the jagged glass.
She’s been waiting for twenty minutes when Paco finally arrives. He’s on foot this time, wearing a ragged orange shirt with a giant sweat stain on his chest, the faint shadow of a mustache on his upper lip. They’ve never stood this close to each other before. Under the fluorescent parking-lot lights, she sees for the first time how pockmarked his skin is, a mess of lines and cracks, as though someone had cut up his face with a pair of blunt scissors and glued it messily back together. She keeps her eyes lowered as she hands over the money. There’s a strand of hair stuck between her two front teeth that she can’t stop prodding with her tongue.
“Actually,” she says after he passes her the envelope, “just wondering. Any chance that you—”
As soon as he nods, she excuses herself to run to the A.T.M. again. Would you like to view your current account balance before proceeding? the machine asks, and she jams her thumb against the “no” button again and again until she gets to the withdrawal screen.
“Sorry I was late,” he says, handing over a second envelope. “I had a football game.”
“Don’t you mean soccer?” Her voice echoes off the concrete ceiling. He raises his eyebrows as she sticks both envelopes in her purse.
“Have a good night, mija.”
She’s still struggling to get the zipper shut as he walks away. When she finally looks up, she catches a glimpse of herself in a nearby car window, mouth twisting as if tasting something bitter.
With No. 11, she uses a sieve to separate out the dry white cracker crumbs. No. 12 requires the tweezers again, to pick out the thin blades of grass. Somewhere in the apartment, her cell phone buzzes with an incoming text message, but she doesn’t look up. Her two front teeth keep scraping nervously across her lower lip, peeling off the dead skin; the hair hanging in her face is slick with saliva from constant sucking. If she wraps a strand around her index finger, the crunching sounds as she bites down on it become all the more pleasant—almost like Pop Rocks, or a bowl of Rice Krispies with freshly poured milk.
“Damn Communists,” she says in her grandmother’s voice, knocking her forehead against the laptop screen as she leans in too close: yet another story about the peace negotiations, men in camouflage pants and black berets standing alongside senators in white shirts. “Why forgive? Why forget?” Google’s image search shows rows of eucalyptus trees, fields of sugarcane stretching like the sea (that rotten-egg smell from the fertilizer!). Message boards describe visits tourists can take to coca laboratories hidden in the jungle; Wikipedia lists the departments where most of the cultivation takes place: Putumayo and Caquetá, Meta and Guaviare. YouTube has a documentary about how to set up your own lab. Key ingredients are gasoline and hydrochloric acid; helpful materials include yellow plastic gloves, metal buckets, and black garbage bags full of coca leaves, dark and light green like limes, not a single one brown or withered.
Hours later, she finally checks the phone: “How’s it going? XO.” The number isn’t saved in her contacts. It takes her a second to remember the Charlie Brown sweater, yellow with a thick jagged black line wrapping around a stomach. She lets the phone fall with a loud clatter, the protective pink case bouncing along the floor.
Charred kernels of grilled corn, burned black and stiff. Squishy black papaya seeds, moist and fresh. The time she told her grandmother, “The fish are all assassinated,” assuming it was synonymous with dead, thanks to the newspapers and TV. The cracked sidewalks. The men puckering their lips and making wet kissing sounds. The accordion music blasting from the maids’ rooms at the back of the house. “Hurry up,” she says to the servants setting the tables, bringing out the boiled eggs spread over toast for breakfast. “What’s a paramilitary?” she asks on the playground, arms aching as she hangs from the swing set. “Don’t say ‘war,’ ” she lectures the orange suitcase, which eyes her nervously. “Say ‘situation.’ Say ‘insecurity.’ Don’t say ‘kidnapped’—say ‘forcibly detained.’ ”
The seventeenth one she shoves into Tony’s hand on the dance floor, not even bothering with the tiny square of toilet paper. She leans against the wall as she waits for him to come back, pulling strands of hair into her mouth as the d.j. starts playing an English version of Shakira’s World Cup song. She fingers the clumps of rabbit fur in her purse, torn out of the baggie in white wisps, thick and knotted as if they’d been tangled in cage wire for days.
Just then a hand reaches out and yanks the hair out of her mouth. Saliva streaks across her cheek as though dabbed there by a sloppy paintbrush. Before she can cry out or even protest, Tony speaks close to her ear. “Don’t do that,” he says. “It’s gross.”
Her face freezes into what she hopes is a smile. “What?”
He places a hand on the small of her back. “It’s really gross,” he repeats, “when you do that.”
She can’t move, can’t turn her head, the spit on her face growing cold. Tony has to guide her into the dancing crowd, pulling her by the wrist. Under the flashing strobe lights, his cheeks glow blue, as smooth as a skating rink.
“So,” he shouts, loud enough to be sure she can hear him over the booming music, “did your family, like, know Pablo Escobar?”
She stuffs the last yellow envelope in the trash, cramming it down as deep as it will go, the paper crinkling like an accordion. Cradling the last few baggies in her arms, she heads to the bathroom. Leaning over the toilet bowl, she hesitates. Presses her forehead against the tiled wall.
She heads back to her bedroom instead, where she grabs her purses off the floor. Her eyes flick to the top of the armoire.
She yanks the orange suitcase down with a clatter. It’s dotted with holes made by a customs agent’s drill at J.F.K., fifteen years ago. She’d been too young for the strip search, but old enough to be taken aside into the interrogation room. (“So, do your parents like to party?” the agents had asked. “Ever help them out?”) The first latch is a little creaky, but the second flips open with no problem. She knows that the can of Choco Listo cocoa powder won’t be there (they poured it out on the table, combing through it with their rubber gloves), nor the pair of Nike soccer cleats (they cut off the rubber tops, searching for hidden compartments).
Everything else, though—it’s still there. All of it. The wallet made out of a milk carton, a gift from her bodyguard, thrust into her hands before she climbed into the car to be driven away to the airport, clutching her grandmother’s purses in her lap. The wooden toucan that used to sit in the middle of the dining-room table, covered in long white scratches. She pulls out the pink striped alpaca poncho, the folder of papers the lawyers gave her, full of instructions on how to access her trust fund. Pink and purple envelopes, pen-pal letters covered in glittery Lisa Frank stickers: I miss you already! How’s the big city? Did you know Betsy is moving to [REDACTED], [REDACTED]? When are you coming back to visit?
When there’s only one item left, she pauses, panting. There’s no sign of them—no candy-cane pants, no purple silk ribbon, no droopy ears smelling of mothballs. Hand trembling, she reaches for the brown square sitting in the middle of the suitcase’s gaping orange mouth. A battered cardboard box—third-grade geography class. When she holds it close to her ear and shakes it, she can hear the pieces rattling around inside.
She pours them out on the floor and gets to work. They are so flattened that there’s no satisfying “click” when they connect. The wrinkled cardboard reminds her of her grandmother’s hands, the way they squeezed her shoulders before gently pushing her toward the departure gate. She builds the central mountain ranges first, then the bordering coast, the northern desert, the southern jungle, the eastern plains. Slowly but surely, the shape becomes clear. The snout of Guajira, sniffing the Caribbean; the square tail of Amazonas, poking into [REDACTED]. Cities make up the organs: the Bogotá heart, the lungs of Medellín and Bucaramanga, the kidneys of Cali and Popoyán. Andean mountains ripple like fur, rivers and highways run like veins.
In the end, though, one of the biggest pieces is missing—the department of Meta. The creature is left with a gaping hole at the center of its body, an open wound exposing the floor tiles beneath. She settles back on her heels and looks down.
She’d completely forgotten that more than half of [REDACTED] was jungle.
“Come here, you,” she says. “Sweet little things. I won’t hurt you—I promise!”
They nuzzle close, warm and soft in her hands as she brings them toward her face. The plastic crinkles when she squeezes them too tightly, so instead she holds them carefully, delicately. She lies down, cradling them against her cheek, smelling their sweet familiar scent, as recognizable and comforting as mothballs. Never mind how much her eyes burn, or her nose itches, or the back of her throat goes numb. She curls up into a fetal position, the wooden toucan poking into her thigh, the puzzle pressing against her arm, the purses softly bunched up under her head. It’s all underneath her as she pulls them close, holding them tenderly, whispering sweet nothings. She starts with English—sweetie pie, candy bird, honey bunny—before moving on to half-remembered Spanish: corazón, querida, mija.
She closes her eyes.
It’s not the world’s most comfortable nest.
But it’s a start. 

