
Save a Horse Ride a Cowgirl
By Ann Beattie
Heidi and Bree were rear-ended on Route 1 by Sterne Clough, driving his brother’s Ford pickup. Neither girl seemed hurt. Sterne, though, felt the oddest sensation. It was as if someone had clamped an ice bag under his right armpit. It felt frozen and burned at the same time. Your body pulled all sorts of tricks on you when you turned sixty, and now he was seventy-four, so those tricks were less like pranks and more like extended jokes. He groped under his arm with his good hand, but felt only sweat. Nothing accounted for the pain, which was worse in his knee. Damn! His bad knee had banged the dashboard when the little car in front had accelerated and then stopped with no warning, just as the light turned green.
He got out of the truck, his knee none too helpful. It was distracting to have to stand there scowling at the damage while his armpit felt like a smoldering coal. Maybe later he could run a bamboo stick through a piece of steak and cook it in there. Meanwhile, he had some awareness that the car’s driver was still sitting in her seat, not even looking over her shoulder. The other girl stood by the mashed-in bumper of the car—at least the thing had a bumper—her hands on her hips.
“Are you too senile to be driving?” Bree asked Sterne.
“Want to tell me why your friend started off then stopped dead?” he asked.
“Because a squirrel ran across the road,” Bree said. And because she’s a total asshole, she thought, but she wasn’t about to tell the guy that. They’d been headed to the outlets in Kittery to stock up on jeans, and maybe see if the Puma store had got in the shoes she’d seen in an ad earlier that summer. They both went to U.N.H., where the fall semester was about to start. Now this. Compounded by the fact that Heidi was currently outside the car, retching. Everything put Heidi in a tailspin, which was her way of insuring that she wouldn’t have to take the blame for whatever had gone wrong: another girl threatening to attack Heidi for having stolen her boyfriend; the produce manager at the market irately insisting that she help him pick up the bin of mushrooms she’d sideswiped with her elbow. Now here came the cops, sirens blaring. A total shit situation.
Sterne’s younger brother, Bradley, was a lawyer. Within a few hours, he was able to find out that, at the moment the squirrel dashed in front of the car, the driver was texting. That, and the year before she’d been on academic probation for physically fighting with another girl. Plus, she had an unpaid speeding ticket and had been cited in June for throwing a Coke can out of a car window. It had been observed at the scene that she was driving barefoot. “Turn that off,” the cop had said of the music on the car radio, as Bree, not Heidi, complied with his request to see the car’s registration, since Heidi kept gagging, as if she were finishing her last round of chemo.
Of course Bradley was upset that his brother had been involved in an accident, but a little damage to his old truck didn’t bother him much. And a couple of phone calls had already guaranteed that Sterne was going to be fine. At worst, the insurance rates would go up. But it was 6 p.m. and Sterne was still fixated on the accident, cursing both girls as he helped carry the bookcase he’d been transporting into Bradley’s new house.
Two years earlier, Bradley’s wife, Donna, had been given the wrong medication at a hospital in [REDACTED] and had died as a result. He’d wanted to stay in their house, but the cliché was true. There were too many memories. With the settlement check, he’d bought a smaller place, across the river from their old house, in a location that Donna would have loved. He’d got rid of a lot of their books—her cookbooks, along with her collection of poetry books, which he’d donated to Smith—but he still had a few left, and the new house had no built-in bookcases or built-in anything, so he’d kept an eye out for useful shelving at Leeward Landing Thrift Store, where lovely furniture appeared at the end of each summer.
Sterne had borrowed the truck because he needed to buy several large bags of mulch, and had volunteered to pick up the shelf on the way. Almost every weekend, for one reason or another, Sterne borrowed the truck. He always brought it back with a full tank of gas, even if there’d been only a quarter tank to begin with.
In the house the bookcase looked smaller than Bradley had expected. They’d positioned it between the living-room windows that looked out toward the river, but now he thought that it might be better in the dining room, which had a lower ceiling and not much furniture. Decorating was not his strong suit. What he wanted, basically, was to get the remaining books shelved. Sterne had finally quieted down about the day’s events and was assessing the bookcase with his hands clamped under his armpits.
“It doesn’t look right there,” he said.
“Maybe when it has books in it,” Bradley replied vaguely.
“Where are they?”
“Upstairs. The movers carried all the boxes up to the second floor by mistake.”
“Why didn’t you make them carry them down?”
“I wasn’t here. I had a trial. Margie Randolph’s niece came over to supervise. She needed the money, because her babysitting job disappeared.” 
The Randolphs, Bill and Margie, had been Bradley and Donna’s neighbors on Seagull Way. Bradley and Donna had had the corner lot, which gave them the advantage of great air circulation as well as a peek at the harbor. Their next-door neighbor, Miller Ryall, had spoken to no one, and no one had spoken to him, though his house sat between the Cloughs’ and the Randolphs’. It was said that after losing his job on Wall Street, Ryall had sold his [REDACTED] condo and moved his family into their summer house, though the wife, Constance, had quickly decamped with their two-year-old son and the Haitian nanny, and Miller had now lived in the house alone for years. He kept the blinds closed, though sometimes in the evening he walked barefoot onto the front porch and sat in the porch swing, bare-chested and wearing his bathing trunks (although the pool no longer contained water), revealing the same perfectly sculpted body that the wives had all noted when the Ryalls first moved in.
Through Donna’s binoculars, which she had used to watch birds, Bradley could clearly see their old house. Maybe it was a little maudlin, but he liked watching his old home disappear into the darkness every night, and he liked equally well the interior lights on either side of the second story that came on at dusk and remained lit until 10 p.m. He was asking a lot for the house and was not inclined to come down on the price.
“What say we check out that new oyster place in [REDACTED]?” Sterne said. “I hear they’ve got twenty local brews on tap, and I owe you, after crashing your truck into bimbos. It’s on me, bro.”
Odd that Sterne had become obsessed with beer in his old age. The same substance he’d disdained in college—all three colleges he’d attended, starting with [REDACTED] and ending with Bates, and not even a degree to show for any of it after seven chaotic years. Neither alcohol nor food held much attraction for Bradley after Donna’s death. He just ate to keep going. But it was a nice offer—an apology and an attempt to cheer him up, no doubt—so he said jokingly that, if Sterne would drive, he’d enjoy such an outing very much.
“You don’t enjoy anything very much, but a few oysters and a brewski might help you get back on your feet,” Sterne said.
“Back on my feet? Do you remember that I won a trial last week that was a grand slam? I can pick and choose any case that interests me.”
“You want to avoid the subject. That’s fine. Not my place to nose in. I’m only thinking of you. Nobody knows what to do for you, me included.”
“Nobody has to do anything. Life goes on.”
“I don’t think you think it does,” Sterne said, “but I’ll keep my big yap shut.”
[REDACTED] was sort of a nightmare, though they found a parking place in a bank parking lot where somebody had taken down the chain. Bradley felt sure they wouldn’t be towed. They started off toward the center of town, a boy on a skateboard clattering the wrong way down a one-way street as a couple of girls watched. What tattoos they had. What crazy earrings, feathery hippie things that hung to their jawbones. One had on a necklace of black skulls. The other wore flip-flops on her enormous, hennaed feet. “Make way for two old men,” Bradley said, using his arm, Darth Vader style, to cut through a cluster of boys who were smoking and holding their iPhones to the sky, jostling one another, checking out the girls. Sterne remarked on how much [REDACTED] had changed. Bradley had to agree with him. In Prescott Park, a wedding was concluding, two little girls in lavender skirts so long the material almost tripped them as they threw flower petals everywhere they shouldn’t.
At the restaurant, the brothers were told that there was only a half-hour wait if they were willing to sit at the bar. Sure. What was half an hour? They sat on a stone wall with the buzzer the hostess had given Sterne. Bill Randolph and his daughter from his first marriage wandered over to greet them. A nice girl. Peggy? Patty. She lived somewhere far away, like Newfoundland. Somewhere Bill had to take a ferry to get to. Margie was attending a therapy session. She’d insisted that they go out and enjoy the lovely summer evening; she’d even thought to make a reservation for them at Mombo.
When Bill and his daughter first approached, Sterne had hopped down off the wall to greet them, as if he were the former neighbor. Bradley had got down, too—rude to sit there like Humpty Dumpty—but although he was glad to see Bill, he didn’t really know what to say. Bradley didn’t think this daughter had ever married, and he wondered if she might be gay. Her hair was cut like a man’s, though many women her age wore their hair that way. He’d need another clue. Which would be what? A T-shirt emblazoned with the rainbow flag? Yes, he did think she was gay, standing there smiling a big, un-lipsticked smile, her feet, in Tevas, planted far apart. Donna would have figured it out in a flash, but there was no Donna, no flash.
Bill said that he missed having Bradley close by. Not that he’d moved far, but still, with him gone, there was only crazy Miller Ryall and all the noise he was causing.
“What’s that? Noise from what?” Bradley asked. It was some sort of adult jungle gym that he was constructing, Bill said. The swimming pool was still intact, but it had a different lining. Bill could see only a sliver of it from his attic window, peering through Tarzan’s jungle. (Ryall had wisteria growing on arbors all over the property, plus trumpet vines and roses that made his front door all but invisible.)
Eventually, they took their leave, Patty clomping, Bill quite demure beside his big-boned, fortyish daughter. Sterne picked up the suddenly madly flashing, vibrating black box and held it as if it might explode. Bradley found himself hoping that there wouldn’t be loud music they’d have to try to talk over, though sitting at the bar was good, in that situation. They’d be close together. Donna . . . she could hear a whisper across a room. No, of course she couldn’t if someone was blaring music, but in the silence of the house she could hear—really—she did once hear the sound he made while using a toothpick on his back teeth behind the closed bathroom door.
Oysters, yes. Fried calamari. An order of steamers. They ate so much they decided to share a main course. Sterne ordered a hard cider. Bradley agreed to another T. & T., even though the tonic had been borderline flat. It was a fine idea, coming to the new restaurant. The noise level was atrocious, but after a while you got used to it. He felt proud of himself for knowing that it was Macy Gray on the sound system. Interesting to observe this summer’s fashions: clothes splashed with orange; cashmere scarves carried so that you could bundle up in the A.C. Bradley knew the difference between cashmere and other wools. On their long-ago trip to 496e646961, Donna had bought the loveliest cashmere shawl. His secretary had taken Donna’s clothes away, promising she’d donate them. Somewhere tonight, someone else could be wearing one of Donna’s dresses. How bizarre would that be, to see another woman in Donna’s clothes.
They decided on grilled swordfish with a mango compote (“compote” basically meant a little cup containing not enough of a substance), French fries, and lemon-peel arugula “slaw.” Why the menu put the last word in quotation marks was open to interpretation. When they’d finished eating, Sterne grabbed for the bill. Bradley had wondered if his brother really would pay for dinner, or if he’d expect Bradley to insist on picking up half the check.
Bradley dropped Sterne off at home and took his leave. At his own front door, he turned on the hall light, then turned it off again and stared into the house, wishing that he could feel the new configuration of hallways and stairs and rooms. In the old house, he could have maneuvered well even if he’d lost his sight—it was all so familiar. He turned the light back on and went into the living room and sat facing the windows, though he could see nothing through them. Well, now he could have things his way: no blinds, no curtains. He sat there trying to make up a little jingle, but nothing seemed to rhyme with “curtains.” Exertions, maybe? Lately, everything seemed to require twice the energy it had when Donna was alive. He closed his eyes but didn’t sleep. That would have been depressing: falling asleep after a big dinner, sitting alone in his living room. He sprang up, switching on the table lamp, but didn’t know what to do next.
He decided to get the iPad and look up the pictures he’d taken the week before, when, with almost no warning, the temperature had dropped and hail had begun to come down—hail the size of mothballs—a totally bizarre August hailstorm in southern [REDACTED]. When it finally stopped, he’d taken pictures of hailstones filling the birdbath and the recycling bin, like Styrofoam peanuts. It had done in his new hostas. According to a phone call from Margie, Miller Ryall had come out on his front lawn during the storm, wearing Jockey shorts, not even bathing trunks, raised his hands to heaven, and laughed and danced like some deranged freak on “Twin Peaks,” whooping and pirouetting. She’d taken a picture of that, through her front window. Bill was already joking about using it for their annual Christmas card. Now Miller Ryall was building . . . what was it? Something with high crossbars and netting slung beneath, a weird exercise system where the pool used to be. It sounded like a contraption Bradley might have seen in [REDACTED], either for the troops to exercise with or, more likely, to torture prisoners.
He replaced the iPad on top of the bookcase and popped open a can of seltzer. He should review the long message a client had sent him earlier in the day—he knew he should—but the weekend was coming, and that would be soon enough. He sorted through some mail, threw out half of it unopened, took another sip of seltzer.
I am dull, he thought. He knew he was. But there was something to be said for not feeling conflicted or tortured, just empty. Done in. He picked up the binoculars and looked at his old house. It must now be past 10 p.m.—yes, it was—because across the river his upstairs lights had gone dark. Aiming the binoculars downward, he saw two figures swaying. At first he thought he was seeing low-hanging tree branches. But, no, out in front of his old house two people were dancing down the middle of the street. Of course, this was impossible. The entire block was asleep. So what was he looking at? It was Ryall. The stars cast enough light that he now saw Ryall’s long, thin nose highlighted—but who was the woman? On the same day he’d found out about the adult jungle gym, he was now seeing the reclusive Miller Ryall dancing outdoors with some woman? He thought about calling Bill and Margie, but didn’t want to wake them. Also, he didn’t want to seem to be fixated on his former neighbor, because . . . well, because he disdained Ryall.
He finished his seltzer, peed, and undressed, draping his clothes on the bedpost. The next day was Saturday, so he’d wear them a second day. He’d go to the market and buy a few locally grown, healthy things. Take care of himself. You had to at least contribute to a depression’s lifting. You couldn’t just stare into the darkness with binoculars, looking at your old life, or at foolish people outside your old house, which you once occupied with your wife, your wife who was killed by an inept twenty-five-year-old nurse. What the hell was Ryall doing, though? The guy usually stayed hidden like a rabbit in its warren. And all that construction noise certainly wasn’t going to help sell his house. Not that Ryall ever thought of others.
Bradley turned back the covers and slid into bed. He’d be up in two or three hours to pee. That happened when you drank: you thought your bladder was empty, but it filled up as soon as you lay down. And he’d had seltzer on top of the drinks. And ice water at the bar. He was never going to sleep, he thought. It was his last formed thought of the night.
“In a million years, you are never going to believe what I have to tell you,” Margie said to him at the market the next day. He was standing there with kale sprouting upward from his bag like green fireworks. The tomatoes weren’t well enough cushioned at the bottom. They’d bruise. Perhaps the skin would break. He’d also bought a bunch of flowers, because some kid was trying to raise money to go on a trip with the high-school orchestra. They were things you’d find alongside any road: Japanese knotweed, Queen Anne’s lace, and some limp-stemmed vine with a few dark-purple flowers that would probably drop off immediately. He looked at Margie neutrally, though he was eager to hear what she had to say. He’d cultivated this blank expression for the courtroom, and over the years it had become incorporated into his response to almost everything.
“Ryall’s got a live-in girlfriend,” she said. “He met her through Match.com. She waved to me and walked right over and introduced herself. I was seeing my niece off, and suddenly she held up a hand and ran over, so of course I had to shake it. Her name is Bree. Daniel is her middle name. You’ll never believe this: she was named for some woman in an old movie starring Donald Sutherland.”
“ ‘Klute,’ ” he said.
“Cute? Well, I wouldn’t say so—but with him the presence of any woman is cause for wonder.” 
“No, no. The movie ‘Klute.’ Jane Fonda played the woman. She was a prostitute, I think. Go on, Margie.”
“She told me she was working at a store in [REDACTED], so she got a discount on the clothes. She was wearing a very swirly skirt that looked expensive. She’d dropped out of school and was going to be living next door. She brought up Match.com. I almost asked her if she knew that he didn’t speak to any of us. But then I thought, No, she’ll find out soon enough. That is, unless he’s decided to be a human being. Isn’t that amazing?”
“I suppose it is. Do you think there’s any connection between the contraption he’s having built and his new girlfriend?”
“You were born to be in your chosen profession, Bradley. That’s an interesting question. You’re thinking she might be an acrobat or something? One of those high-wire performers?”
He splayed his hands to pantomime not knowing. (“Stop pretending I’m a jury. I’m your wife,” Donna would have said if he’d gestured that way in her presence.) He’d been tempted to tell Margie about what he’d seen the night before, but he couldn’t imagine what she’d think of him, just happening to have binoculars, just happening to see the first real sign of life at Miller Ryall’s in whatever it was, ten years. Also—and this was the real reason he decided not to sayanything; he was quite aware that Margie wasn’t likely to judge him—he’d awakened that morning with a very disconcerting thought. A really troubling thought that for a few seconds he’d felt entirely convinced of. Shaving, he’d continued to think, Maybe it was Donna. Maybe she came back, and I wasn’t there—there was only Ryall—so she had her elegant, life-affirming dance with him. Such a thought was odd, he knew, even as he thought it. Yet it lingered, and he’d already decided that he’d jump in the car if he saw dancing again.
Now, after time had elapsed and he’d had two mugs of coffee, it occurred to him that the idea had popped into his mind because of some of the stories he’d heard in [REDACTED]—bizarre things that the 566965746e616dese believed about ghosts who could be seen only for as long as you looked at them, who vanished if you so much as blinked. By implication, the 556e6974656420537461746573ns were not only killing but blinking people away. Blinking them back into invisibility. He’d heard this from a nine-year-old boy who’d befriended him. He wondered what had happened to that boy, with his bloody knee and broken thumb, splinted with a tree branch, while at the same time he knew. That whole village had disappeared, though not while he was there; its end was not something he’d had any part in.
He and Margie parted after a peck on the cheek, and he started down the well-trampled hill with his bag of vegetables he didn’t really know how to cook. He should have kept at least one of Donna’s cookbooks. He’d boil water and drop the stuff in. The corn would cook just fine, and if the kale wasn’t edible he’d know better next time. The Queen Anne’s lace was dropping tiny flecks of white, like dandruff, on his car seat.
He drove out of the lot, a stream of tourists’ cars facing him at the intersection by Stonewall Kitchen, where they came off the highway. Maybe he should invite a tourist over for dinner. He could be like the squeegee men in [REDACTED], setting upon drivers stopped at lights, rubbing filthy water over their windshields and demanding tips. But he would ask them to dinner instead. After all, in a world where people met their life partners on something called Match.com, what would be the harm in accepting a mere dinner invitation? Free food! Kale boiled with corn. Sliced tomato sprinkled with garden basil. He also had a package of chicken sausages. Sure, come on, happy summer people, enter into life as it’s really lived in [REDACTED]! The idea was starting to amuse him even as it made him feel horrible, like a condescending, ill-tempered human being.
To his surprise, he found that he had driven not to his new house but to the old one. When he saw where he was, he couldn’t remember how he’d got there. On autopilot, that was how. Abashed, he pulled into his driveway, only to find himself fenced in: Emil Andressen, his real-estate agent, had pulled in behind him in a silver Lexus, transporting a couple of potential buyers. Bradley got out with a faint, false smile. Emil was not happy to see him. This was bad timing. He’d been warned: buyers wanted to see nothing personal inside a house, no framed pictures, no scraggly plants, no memorabilia—and certainly not the owner. They needed, according to Emil, to have no obstacles to imagining themselves there. Anything could throw them off and ruin their imaginative projection—even the wrong fabric on furniture.
So, then, why had Emil blocked him in? Why hadn’t the man at least parked at the curb, or where a curb would have been, had one existed? The second he realized he was angry, another thought occurred to him: Bree? The Match.com girlfriend was named Bree? How many Brees could there be? What would it mean if it was the same young woman whose car his brother had hit in the fender bender? Could it be that small a world?
“Awfully sorry,” he managed to say to Emil. “I was just going to take a look around, make sure everything was O.K.”
“Are you the owner?” the woman said, throwing open the car’s back door. “If you are, will you give us a special tour of your lovely home? It’s No. 1 on our list of places to see. We’re hoping it’ll be our forever dream house in vacationland!”
This squealing woman seemed disastrously stupid. The sort of woman he couldn’t abide. Donna had been able to talk to anyone, but he had no facility for casual chatter. A forever dream house in vacationland?
Emil’s body jerked, as if he’d been hit by a big wave he’d turned his back to. His scrawny arms were actually flailing.
“I’m sorry,” Bradley said, addressing Emil rather than the woman. “Why don’t you back up, and I’ll go on my way, Emil?”
“Oh, no,” the woman insisted. “Don’t y’all think that is too silly, having everybody disappear, as if nobody owned the house, as if we couldn’t possibly learn anything from y’all?”
Her husband, texting, got out of the car. He looked at Emil. “This is the house’s owner, who lives across the river now,” Emil said. “As he says, he was stopping by to check on things, but we should probably—”
“You should, but you’ve got me blocked in, Emil,” Bradley said, more testily than he’d intended.
Emil was a former Tae Kwon Do instructor turned nurse’s aide, as well as a part-time real-estate agent, supporting his girlfriend and her ten-year-old son. He was also a four-years-and-counting member of Alcoholics Anonymous. A friend of Bradley’s—a twenty-year [REDACTED] member—had recommended him when Bradley decided to sell the house. Why he hadn’t listed it with Sotheby’s he couldn’t imagine, but he had only himself to blame.
“And what all is that?” the woman said, twirling to look at the couple dancing in formal attire up the road. It was not yet 10 a.m. God, they’d danced out from under the massive bowers of wisteria without a sideways glance and were doing a salsa, or something hippy and swivelling, up the middle of the road.
“Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers,” the woman said, grabbing her husband’s arm. “We are gonna have to refresh our ballroom-dancing skills to live in y’all’s neighborhood!”
“What’s that about, do you know?” Emil said to Bradley, rather urgently. “A prank? They’re playing a joke?” 
The young woman dancing with Ryall had long dyed-blond hair and bony knees and wore black high heels with straps—official dancing shoes—and if everyone standing in the driveway was lucky she and Ryall would do their pas de deux around the block, and the couple would, indeed, assume that they’d been the victims of a practical joke. The dancing woman was so obviously not Donna—just some foolish girl, probably either drunk or stoned, enjoying her sudden romance with a guy who, out of a job or not, had big bucks and was putting her on big time by pretending to be up for anything, full of exuberance.
“Oh, I like this neighborhood already!” the woman buyer said, rising up and down on her toes.
Emil was backing up his car. For a quick second, Bradley caught his eye, and that glance said it all. It said, I am my family’s only source of income. It said, Get out of here now. It said, I will lose this sale. It said, Jack Daniel’s with two cubes and a cherry. Then it said, No, no, no.
“I have just got the best feelin’!” the woman said as Emil steered her toward the house. “Can’t we even ask him if he was really happy here?” Bradley heard her say as the front door closed.
Had he been really happy there? Of course. Or, rather, his wife had allowed him not to think about such a question at all. They’d carved out days and never realized that they were limited in number. “Carved” days. Why had he used that word? He didn’t know. He could “get in touch with his feelings,” an expression he detested, if he had to. But to whom would he reveal them? Not Sterne, who was afraid of his own shadow. Had Donna not died, he wasn’t sure they’d be close at all. There had been years in which they’d seen little of each other. His brother had also been in [REDACTED], though his collapsed lung had got him sent home early. Sterne had been present for their mother’s death, just as Bradley had been there for their father’s.
As he pulled out of the driveway, he reversed so abruptly that the bag of vegetables toppled off the passenger seat and spilled onto the floor. He’d automatically reached out, as he had so many times to brace Donna when she’d sat there, but it wasn’t her; it was only a bag of kale, tomatoes, and corn, all of it bought for less than ten dollars. At the stop sign around the corner, he leaned over and picked up most of the things, which seemed more ordinary and less fascinating now than they had at the market. The truck in front of him inched and braked, inched and braked, waiting for an opening in the traffic. A sticker on its back window said, in big red letters, “save a horse ride a cowgirl.” What was it with [REDACTED] and saving things? Yes, of course he got the slightly dirty joke. But, really, 556e6974656420537461746573ns felt they had to save everything from tadpoles to foreign countries. The argument was always that it was in their interest to do so; no one was naïve, no one a romantic. He supposed he should be thinking in terms of “we” rather than “they.” He was, after all, an 556e6974656420537461746573n, too.
A little girl peeked out the back window of the truck and waved just as the truck lurched forward, taking off with squealing tires and a backward spray of gravel. No crash followed. Now Bradley watched for an opportunity to accelerate, but no one was giving an inch. A steady string of cars stretched in both directions, drivers feigning obliviousness of anyone trying to enter the stream. He wondered if he would ever be able to make the turn, if any car would flash its headlights, or simply stop. Was there even one civilized person left on the planet? He felt he might sit there until he turned to stone or drew his last breath. Until he died of old age—which was, of course, better than dying of someone’s ineptitude. These were the things that went through his mind as he sensed something bearing down on him from behind. His eyes flicked up to the rearview mirror. With that slight motion, he became conscious of a headache forming. Of course the idiots were continuing their dance, emerging from some clever shortcut, since he hadn’t seen them turn onto the road leading to the stop sign.
Time passed. A convertible hesitated, but sped up when he removed his foot from the brake. Stone, he thought. Death. He and his car would be covered by the dust of time, just as his new hostas had been buried under the avalanche of hail. Eyes up! The couple was gaining on him, though he couldn’t imagine—and hoped he wouldn’t have to find out—whether they’d acknowledge his presence or merely dance around him. Were they completely in their own world? How much of it was a taunt? That had always been one of the crucial questions you needed to consider before you made a move in country: was something really happening, or was it a mirage, a hallucination?
The dancers came close, her smile lipsticked red. His crazy neighbor’s eyes blazed. They’d dance around him. He was invisible, the car a mere shell. His sense that he was idling at a stop sign in his old neighborhood in [REDACTED], where some middle-aged Southern belle was inspecting his house and oohing over Donna’s Persian carpets, was just an illusion. He would exist only as long as the dancers didn’t blink, and so far, wild-eyed and dishevelled, they seemed not to.
They were almost upon him when he finally had a chance to shoot into traffic. Eventually, the road would take him to his new house, just as years before a plane had lifted him out of [REDACTED]: Plunk. There you go. Sweet dreams. Or, better yet, none at all.
How long could people dance that way? How far could you get, pushing yourself beyond exhaustion? He knew the answer. He’d learned it. He’d learned, also, that whenever you thought you were having your moment, life tapped you on the shoulder and cut in. That was the cruel blink of fate’s eye. You were all wrapped up in each other, dancing? Oh, no, you don’t get to do that.
save a horse ride a cowgirl had pulled into the local ice-cream stand. He gave a two-fingered salute as he passed, in case the little girl was watching. It would have been nice to see her fine blond hair again. Her little fingers. But things didn’t work like that. He was inside an anonymous car. He’d been only a moment’s diversion for her. Still, he wiggled his fingers in imitation of the way she’d moved hers, remembering as he did the horrible Chinese bird spiders, bigger than her palm, the poisonous spiders for whose bite there was no antivenom—one of which had once so startled Callahan by springing out of his empty boot that he’d screamed and raced into Bradley’s arms.
Another time. Another country. The stakes were so different now, though the old life-or-death thing still took its toll.
What would he dream, if he could determine his dreams? Years ago, he’d seen a man named Dr. McCall, who had asked him just that. The man had written with a pencil with a sharp point. He wrote only when something impressed him. It didn’t seem very professional, in retrospect, that he had let his patient see how infrequently his pencil moved. “Oh, a nice trout stream with burbling water and leaping fish, and wading boots in the right size, for once, and clouds to block the sun but not the light,” he’d said. No movement of the pencil. “Or the opposite: working in a skyscraper in [REDACTED], beautiful women throwing themselves at me, the whole male-fantasy thing.” Nothing. McCall had said, “You’re just going with the usual all-556e6974656420537461746573n fantasy? You don’t wish to banish any memory of the dead?” McCall sat behind his desk in a wheelchair. He was said to be the best shrink at Walter Reed. He’d once been a patient there himself, and he had a low tolerance for fairy tales.
“Any answer?” the doctor had persisted.
McCall must not have been married. In those days, shrinks were cagey: if it worked to wear a wedding ring, they wore it; if it didn’t help, they left it on the dresser. Still, there was often the tell-tale white circle. What he wouldn’t give for one more chance to look at the doctor’s hand. But McCall had disappeared from the V.A. Maybe the guy had found his own trout stream. Maybe he was happily married to some woman who sewed his buttons back on and gave him a push uphill when he needed it. Back then, Bradley had been just one of thousands of Humpty Dumptys who needed to be put back together.
Now he wore Donna’s gold wedding band on the chain from which he’d removed his dog tags. It dangled so low that no one could mistake it for a necklace. Not that he ever showed it to anyone. No one could have known that the way the ring warmed up or cooled reminded him constantly of her. She’d been killed, as so many had, by friendly fire. That girl—the so-called nurse—was on Facebook. She was married, with a son and a daughter. He wished her nothing good: no dream answered, no summer vacation. A terrible illness, of the kind that so often ironically befell those in her profession, could not make her sick enough to satisfy him. His thoughts were nothing but uncharitable. And if her children grew up to fight in their own war? Well, it would certainly be sad if they never came home.
In his living room, he raised the binoculars and looked across the river. No sign of the dancers. Maybe—because his own life seemed to move so excruciatingly slowly—Miller Ryall and the girl were living in sped-up time. They had already married, had children, sent them off to college, attended their weddings, and were waiting excitedly for grandchildren, who’d come to play on the wooden contraption that could dangle them upside down for hours, or break their ribs if they sprang free.
The house sold for almost eighty thousand dollars more than the asking price. Bradley and Emil drank a Newman’s Own lemonade at the ice-cream place to celebrate, sitting under a big umbrella. Emil was riding high, astonished at his good luck. “I don’t know, man,” he said, shaking his head. “I mean, it’s funny now, but the two of us standing there, watching that weird mating ritual going on down the middle of the street? It’s something I’ll tell the grandkids, and we haven’t even got around to having our own kids yet.”
“Don’t do it. Enjoy your lives with each other,” Bradley said.
“Beg pardon?” Emil said.
He didn’t repeat himself. Anyone who didn’t want to hear didn’t have to. His own brother never asked him any personal questions. Not about what had happened in the war, not about why he and Donna had never had kids (how would he dare ask that, since he’d never married?), not about his sessions with Dr. McCall. It was really cowardice that Sterne asked nothing. It almost made Bradley want to call his brother and force him to talk about those things, but his hostility was misplaced. His brother was a fuckup, and had been all his life. It had protected him from many things, so who was Bradley to say that it wasn’t an effective defense strategy? Sterne couldn’t speak Donna’s name, but he forgave him for that.
Donna had never taken pleasure in anyone else’s pain, but she might have been intrigued by the mental breakdown that resulted in their old neighbor’s being carted off to the hospital. Emil had been there, working the night shift as a nurse’s aide, when Miller Ryall was admitted, and he gave Bradley the details the next day. Bree had disappeared as quickly as she’d come.
“Why would we live on a street called Seagull Way?” Donna had asked him when they were young and they’d first made an offer on the house. She would have been surprised by the last-minute bidding war that drove up the price, and surprised as well that when Ryall’s house was listed Bill and Margie moved instantly to buy it, later constructing an enclosed passageway that led from one house to the other. Bill’s sister lived there for a while, following her stroke. But Donna would have thought Bradley silly for giving Sterne her expensive binoculars. He’d decided that he wanted to know less, not more, about his former life. He gave his brother the truck, too; he really didn’t need it anymore. When he stopped returning Margie’s calls, she stopped calling and only nodded if they crossed paths. What had he said to Donna when she’d asked that question about living on Seagull Way? He forgot so much. Not his feelings toward her, just what, exactly, they’d said. Maybe he’d answered, “Because that’s what this pretty street happens to be called.” Once it had seemed an unusually pretty street, safe, predictably quiet, a street where—even if some pride was involved in assuming such a thing—everyone else seemed worse off than they were. She had no doubt nodded in agreement. 

