The Gospel According to García
By Ariel Dorfman
We watched him come in, how his steps faltered at the threshold of the classroom, how he just stood there, his first mistake, giving us enough time to size him up, not enough time for him to figure out who we were, what strategy might win us over.
He coughed, as if that could mask his heavy breathing, almost a sigh, and then, with false resolution, he walked in and sat down behind the desk.
He sat down where García used to sit, just like that, as if he had the right to do so.
He smiled at us, another mistake, and then: “Maybe we should introduce ourselves,” he said. Ourselves? Was he referring to himself, pretentiously using the plural for his own person? Or did he include us? Was it an invitation to the twelve of us, seated symmetrically in front of him?
We said nothing.
Not that we’d reached a tacit agreement or anything of the sort. In fact we hadn’t exchanged a word since we’d heard about García. But García had told us how to behave in this sort of situation; García had said the longer you keep a secret, the deeper, the richer the secret grows, and those words had to be throbbing through our heads. He’d spoken about the silence of indigenous peoples, playing dumb, how they came to understand that no invader could ever really get the upper hand, no matter how fierce his face or strong his weapon or cunning his tricks if he didn’t know their language. Remember that, García said, smuggle yourselves inside the minds of people who are being subjected to an authority that they have not freely chosen, and remember what they’ve learned: you cannot really capture anybody until you have heard his voice. If you don’t want to be bottled up by your enemy, you know what to do.
So we just waited.
“I suppose I should start,” the man said then—that was what he said next. “Break the ice, so to speak,” and here his smile turned into an inane grin. He made a snapping gesture that was supposed to exude confidence, but only made him even more pathetic; he snapped his fingers in a military way toward the window and the storm that was raging beyond it. “Though,” he added, trying to make himself sound jovial and clever, “given the weather, ice may not be the most appropriate image. And as for breaking, well, you kids have done an excessive amount of that already, right?”
We still said nothing.
If he had studied with García, he’d have known immediately what to do: ferret out the weakest link, the one among us, male or female, who would crack and crumble under pressure, ask that young man, that young lady, an ostensibly innocuous question—“And your name is?” or “So how about you tell me where you left off?” or “Are you one of the group that absolutely needs to graduate next month?”—any question, as long as he zeroed in on her, goaded her to answer in order to avoid his eyes meeting her eyes, our eyes on him as he brought her under his thumb. Yes, if he’d taken a glimmer of a lesson with García, he’d have known what to do, what García had warned us against, the methods used by those in command to divide and repress, to insure that we feared him more than we loved one another, more than we had loved García and always would.
Instead, this outsider proceeded to apologize. Never, ever apologize if you haven’t done anything wrong. No. 4 of García’s golden rules. Keep your sorrys and your excuse mesand your please forgive mes, above all keep your please, please forgive mes for the one moment in life when you’ll really need them, need those words. And you will be in dire need of entreaties like these, García said, nodding his white mane of hair, oh you will be praying for those words, blessing yourself for not having wasted them on something spurious and unworthy. You’re adolescent pups, you think you’re going to live forever just as I once did, perish the thought now, given what is happening out there, given what might happen in here soon, my young friends, but let me assure you that each one of you will someday be standing in front of—no, correction (García corrected himself often, cheerfully), correction, García said, you will someday be kneeling, kneeling down in front of a pair of accusing eyes, threatening feet, feet that might kick you or feet that might do something worse. At times what we should dread most are feet that will run away, that will run away and leave us everlastingly alone. Loneliness is what should terrify you most, more than a slap or a kick or hunger even. And that’s when those words, please, please forgive me, will be all that separates you from the pit and swamp of the deepest despair. So don’t squander them on matters of no consequence. The world is cursed because people do not apologize for their sins or crimes or merely their cowardice, but it’s even more cursed because people apologize much too much—they use their regrets as a way of not really probing what they have done, as permission to persevere in their blindness, absolving themselves without having atoned or understood. You, my young friends, will not make that mistake, García promised us. You will know when to keep quiet.
But this substitute teacher—the only one who had dared to take the job after all the other staff members had refused, their own quiet way of protesting, forcing the Headmaster of the Academy, that bastard, to tackle the impossible task of replacing García, forcing him to interview and contract and bring in some stupid instructor from who knows what other abominable establishment—this fellow, this upstart, he may have been sitting in García’s chair as if he had earned that spot, but he had not heard García’s advice. This man had started to blame himself before he opened his mouth, just by the way he’d hesitated at the threshold, just by the way he’d failed to hide his sigh.
“I know this must be hard for you,” he said. “I’m just as sorry as you are for what’s—but no, that’s not what I’m here for, I’m sure you’ll agree that there are certain subjects that are best left untouched. And agree, as well, that when a crisis arises we need to face it together, in a spirit of coöperation, put our best foot forward, keep our head when all about us are losing theirs.”
He paused to gauge what effect his platitudes had on our potential bonding with him. When we continued in our submerged silence, he hastened to fill the void. Never do that, García had scolded one of us when, after fifteen eternal minutes of silence at the start of his initial class, all those months ago, he’d come into the room, this very room, slammed his books and papers onto the desk and simply clasped his hands gently together and opened his lips only to let the barest wisp of air out and then back in, speaking only when one of us asked some sort of question, perhaps it was even me who couldn’t stand it any longer, despite the warnings we had been given by the kids lucky enough, troubled enough, to have been personally selected by García for his legendary classes. And García very softly, almost inaudibly, berated her or him or me or whoever it was: So you couldn’t tolerate fifteen minutes of silence, eh? Couldn’t just wait, let time slow down? No, you had to hurry up the minutes, gobble them up as if they were candy. A paltry fifteen minutes. You couldn’t take that. Now tell me, my pretty ones, how are you going to take eternity? How are you going to be able to face death? That’s the only question that matters, García said, the only one that defines us, so best to get ready. And fifteen minutes is not a half-bad way of preparing.
This substitute would have flunked García’s first test and probably his second and third ones as well. And yet he presumed that we would nurse him along, finish what García had started.
“I’m here to help,” the new man said now, smiling benignly—but we knew what smiles like those meant, we’d been well trained not to be seduced by anybody’s charm. When they praise you or suck up to you or proclaim the lie that you are the best, worthier than anyone else on this earth, beware. Always answer these accolades courteously, be compassionate toward those who have yet to be enlightened, but do not let their easy smiles or their fraudulent adulation lull you into complacency. Never give a damn what anyone thinks of you, García had said. Never be afraid to be different or rebellious, branded as troublemakers. Have you heard that one before—don’t cause trouble? As if causing trouble were not normal and natural and noble when things aren’t right. Or if they call you ugly, just plain ugly—like me, García said. Being born ugly and growing up ugly gave me strength, perhaps even wisdom, though lately I’ve come to wonder if I’m that wise. And then García added, seemingly out of nowhere: Remember that he who loves more in a relationship always ends up screwed.
García looked out the window—it was early autumn then and the trees were bursting with leaves of light as if winter would never come, as if dogs would never bark at tanks roaring by—and a flicker of pain or sorrow stole across his face, and he turned back to us as if welcoming commentary, he had told us never to let any comment he made go by without doubting it if we felt the need, and he was not disappointed when somebody asked, this time I am sure it was not me, “Does that mean we should never love intensely, give ourselves entirely to another human being?”
Another human being, García answered, now perfectly composed, a cause, a revolution, someone or something beyond us and above us and better than us—oh, I never meant that we should not surrender to forces more beautiful than our own small selves. Only that we must be aware, not be deluded about the sacrifices and losses that such a surrender may entail, be ready to pay the price. Think, think before you leap—and then leap, follow your heart. A thought that does not have emotion is empty; an emotion without action is bogus. But do not let others know everything you think, never surrender that, no matter how passionate you may be, how anxious for love. Always keep a little something back that is only yours, entirely, completely yours.
“And I can’t help you,” the substitute now plodded on, “unless you afford me some information, more than I have found in the class notes I have been given access to by the proper authorities.” Most urgent, he said, measuring his syllables and trying to measure how we were receiving them, “are the tests, these—what should I call them?—papers, responses, essays, I don’t know quite what they are meant to . . . the topic given to you by my colleague, by . . . ” And here he seemed on the verge of stuttering García’s name but did not. He had ventured to suggest that he was a colleague even though he had never crossed García’s path, only idiots would believe they had been chums. What next? Would he claim that they were disciples of the same master, had studied together just as we were studying now? It was clear he’d never set eyes on García, just as he’d never set eyes on any of us, only on what we had written a month ago, which he now extracted from a shiny black satchel and waved in front of the class.
“The tests,” he repeated, “here’s the problem we have, you and me, all of us. They’re only half-corrected and even those haven’t been . . . they have definitely not been graded. Thus we’re not sure, the Headmaster and the administration, I mean—they want me to sort things out. Correct them all over again, so that there’s only one standard, if I make myself clear. Because you do need to graduate, find a job, reimburse your parents and guardians for the expense and distress that they . . . Of the twelve registered in this remedial class, seven are seniors and can’t afford to flunk it, not this close to the end of the semester. Nor should the five others be subjected to that sort of irresolution either—yes, irresolution is the right word, come to think of it. So let’s start by focussing on the seven who need to graduate. How’s that for a plan?”
We didn’t answer, not the seven seniors or the five others who would be left behind, a year in this stifling institution still ahead of them. We didn’t answer—let him figure it out. That was what he was being paid for, that’s what they were using García’s meagre salary to pay for.
The substitute didn’t seem to get our message. “It wouldn’t do, I hope you agree—and if you don’t, if you insist on . . . Well, misbehavior has consequences. At this point, you must have learned that, that there can be forgiveness, yes, but only if there are signs of repentance. Otherwise, no mercy.” He stopped. Maybe the Headmaster had told him that intimidation had not worked with this particular band of adolescents, that only García had shown signs of success with us and that García had never threatened anyone, never thought fear was the answer. At any rate, the substitute’s tone softened. “But hey, hey, all I’m trying to do here is be fair, because it can’t be right to have one set of tests corrected and commented on by one instructor according to one standard, and the others by somebody entirely different, employing different criteria. It just won’t do, nobody would be able to proclaim who had come out on top and who—well, someone’s got to lose, that’s life, a struggle to survive, and there has got to be some kind of hierarchy.”
He was criticizing García, of course, condemning him for his sheer disregard of the guidelines, his contempt for any form of competition. I’ll give you all the best grade, each and every one of you, García had said the first time he returned an essay—a brief response to the question “Is there any way in which misfortune can be welcomed or is it always to be abhorred?” It’s that, my young ones—everyone equally rewarded, or throw darts at names on a wall with a blindfold on and let the darts, each representing a different grade, determine who does better. I won’t collaborate, García said, in their attempt to get you to eat one another, to fight one another now so you can keep on fighting one another out there. I just won’t. So I’ll let you decide. What’s it to be, darts in an absurd and arbitrary and cruel universe or all for one and all for all?
All for all, just like now, quietly waiting for the next move.
“So,” the substitute said suddenly. It was clear that he did not feel guilty for having usurped García’s place, that he presumed he was doing us a favor by shouldering the burden. It was clear that he did not feel that he in any way deserved this misfortune, the discomfort of twelve recalcitrant students who sat in front of him as if they were made of stone, as if he were made of stone. “So,” he repeated, “this theme, Why is indifference worse than murder? I’ll confess that it is not easy to correct your answers, as I do not agree, I cannot agree, with the premise. Nor have I been aided by the fact that no bibliography was indicated beforehand on the syllabus, no notes as to what was expected of the pupils, and, most puzzling, only the same words scrawled at the end of each paper that has been read: Would it be better never to have been born? No other clue, nothing but those final words as a comment.”
We could have explained that García had uttered those very words the last time we had seen him, a month ago, when he had sprung that assignment on us, and we had asked for some clarification of the question he proposed we answer during the next two hours of class, if he might perhaps offer his students some hint as to why indifference might be worse than murder. Have you ever asked yourself, Would it be better never to have been born? That’s what García said. In case something goes wrong, he had said, because, believe me, something will always go wrong in life, you can count on it, that’s when you have to ask yourselves, would it be better never to have been born? Is there a situation you can imagine for yourself—deserved or undeserved does not matter, misfortune is not the mistress of your destiny—is there a situation when you’d say that, pray that you had never seen the light of day, had had no mother? Betrayed that badly that you’d say that?
One of us had then raised a hand, encouraged as usual to challenge García, not to be in thrall to his age or his position or his knowledge or his notoriety—don’t tell me everything you’re thinking but don’t hold back if you don’t understand, I’ll have fucking failed if you are not independent of my influence by the time this class ends, if you can’t swim into the turbulence on your own—and he nodded at the raised hand and the query came: “How is this related to indifference and responsibility and murder?”
And he smiled—oh, how the whole room lit up when he smiled—he smiled and reminded us that he had not mentioned responsibility as part of the assignment but that word seemed particularly appropriate given what could go wrong in life, what was sure to go wrong in life. As for asking oneself if it would have been better not to have been born, well, once you have an answer to that question, no matter how preliminary and precarious it might be, once you’ve put yourself in that cellar, in that darkness where the question would become imperative and could not be postponed, once someone is standing over you with utter indifference, watching you suffer with utter indifference, then, my young ones, if you survive you’ll be ready, really ready to celebrate life as a perpetual resurrection.
And that’s how we knew, how we now know yet again as we observe the substitute try to drag a reaction out of us, that’s how we confirm that something has gone wrong for García. We’d suspected it as soon as the Headmaster, that bastard, had come into our classroom three weeks before and told us that García was not able to teach that day because of circumstances that were best left unspoken, and that the authorities were actively seeking a solution. We didn’t ask any questions. We left things unspoken, not because of what the Headmaster had said but because García had counselled us to say nothing that could put us in danger if ever there was an emergency, and one week later he was still not there and the twelve of us waited in this cold classroom without moving an inch or looking at one another or breathing a word that might reveal what we really felt, how we were wondering if one of us was responsible for his absence, whether one of us, he or she or me, had revealed something to the hostile world outside that had put García in harm’s way, the whole two hours in absolute silence, and at the end of that period we had informed one another merely by the way we stood up that the following week we’d be here once more, and that was what we did, we reconvened a week later, hoping against hope that García would walk through the door, but only the Headmaster crawled through it to promise that by the following session we would have a substitute. And that was when we were sure that García had to have been struck down somewhere, on some road, with a bird in a nearby tree watching the snow cover his body, or perhaps in a room who knows where while someone, someone born of a human mother once upon a time, approached García, looking at him as if he were a piece of meat. We knew that if García had not come, if he’d left us by ourselves, it had to mean that he was dead, that only death could have stopped him from being here to discuss whether we could imagine being betrayed so badly that it would be better not to have been born.
We remain absolutely silent and wait.

