Usl at the Stadium
By Rivka Galchen
The game on Sunday had a 2 p.m. start, and Usl was featured on the Jumbotron intermittently from 4:02 to 4:09. By eight-thirty, his home phone was ringing. His home phone never rang. It was a holdover from another time. His mother had told him that it was essential, a matter of safety—for hurricanes, or blackouts, or terrorist attacks. You never knew what could happen until it happened. She had insisted on paying the bill so that Usl would keep the landline. She had pleaded, “Please grant me permission to protect my child,” and so he had.
The landline was ringing because Usl had become an Internet sensation. Usl had been sleeping when he appeared on the Jumbotron at the Yankees game; the cameras and the commentators had turned on Usl numerous times, and at length, and he had slept through it all. It wasn’t until the voices of strangers over that old-fashioned telephone alerted him that he understood how widely watched his sleep had been. Now a gentle feminine voice pitched him: “What we’re thinking is that you come into the office and we’ll take a top-quality, nice photo of you. We really love the idea that you get a chance to present yourself. You’ll recapture control over your image.”
Usl looked online to reconfirm who he was in the eyes of the world:
Fatty cow that needs two seats at all time and represent symbol of failure
had been posted one minute earlier in the comments section under a YouTube clip. The clip had more than seventy thousand views. Wasn’t it really just footage of a man dreaming? No one seemed to see it that way. Usl was only twenty-eight years old—could his life already be ruined? Could he save it?
Usl told the woman on the phone that he needed to think about her idea, that he would call her back.
He called Gregory.
“People at a newspaper are not your allies,” Gregory said. Gregory was Usl’s friend but also his boss. Usl worked the buyback end of Gregory’s storefront diamond-district place. Customers ascended the back stairs to consult with Usl about their old jewelry, and Usl weighed, assessed, proposed prices, bought. Gregory liked to say that it was a sultanate there on the second floor; the sultan was Usl. Now Gregory said, “These are people who demeaned Eliot Spitzer over private issues, who—”
“But people are saying untrue things about me—”
“You’ll be extending the time that you’re at the center of attention—”
“If you were me—”
“I’m not you. I’m not interested in fame. I am me. I’m interested in coming to work. I hope you’re not thinking of not coming in to work tomorrow.”
The angle of the camera in the footage was particularly unflattering—distorting, really. It wasn’t a strong likeness.
Usl called the voice from the newspaper back. “I will come in.”
The now slightly less kind-sounding woman informed Usl that if he made it in before 11 a.m. they would run the photo online the same day.
Usl trembled.
Or was the trembling elsewhere?
They had found his cell-phone number?
“I love you!” the text message read. It was his mother. “You are a great and successful and handsome and very good and nice man!!!” Even she had seen the footage? Usl’s mother was very loving, had always been very loving. Good mothers are bad mothers, Usl thought. Only bad, mean mothers prepare you for what is to come. If Usl was ever a mother, whatever, a father, he wanted to be a bad one.
More calls came in, through the night, from television programs that had once seemed to occur in inaccessible lands but that turned out to be really less than thirty minutes away; they would send a car service. Usl couldn’t sleep. When, as a child, he encountered characters six feet tall, fuzzy, offering hugs, or flyers, or hot dogs, he had been frightened. He unplugged the phone.
Then there was a knock at the door. Was he O. J. Simpson? They were pursuing him everywhere.
“It’s me! It’s Berge!”
Berge was Usl’s neighbor. Usl let him in.
Berge said, “You’ve had a huge piece of luck. Huge. I know you may not see it, but this is the luckiest day of your life.”
“I’m very tired,” Usl said, and then felt ambushed by fresh shame—after all, why was he so tired? “People laugh, but I was sleeping because I haven’t been getting my sleep. When you don’t sleep, you’re not yourself. When you don’t sleep, you find yourself sleeping all the time.”
“You’re going to sue,” Berge declared. Sue somebody. Berge would figure it out. He wouldn’t charge—he would just take fifteen per cent upon collection. Did Usl feel damaged? Yes, Usl did feel damaged. Then there should be damages. Berge had recently passed the bar. He wasn’t lying about that, Usl thought. Berge often shared his magazines with Usl; he was a nice guy, basically.
“But I can’t sue thousands of people,” Usl said. “It’s thousands of people who have damaged me.” He caught a glimpse of his screen:
He’s dreaming of cupcakes.
“No, thousands wouldn’t be sensible,” Berge said. “We’ll sue the Yankees.”
“But I love the Yankees.”
“We’ll sue the Stadium.”
“I love the Stadium. I’ve been happy there.”
“You’re very stressed. Let me figure it out for you.”
By 1 a.m., Berge had prepared papers for Usl to sign—Berge was also a notary, he said—naming a broadcasting corporation. “They won’t take it personally,” Berge assured him. “It’s business.”
By Tuesday, views of the YouTube footage had exceeded a million. Usl abandoned the Internet, turned on the radio for escape, and there learned that he, Usl, was a too sensitive behemoth who needed to be *#&$ed in his cookie-dough face; also, that he should eat celery. Normally, if you heard people talking about you on the radio it meant that you were crazy, since of course no one on the radio was talking about you, and if you thought that people on the radio were talking about you, as had happened to Usl’s uncle, then you were supposed to go see somebody, a professional. Usl didn’t want to see anybody.
“Gold resists attacks by almost all individual acids” appeared on his cell phone. A year earlier he had subscribed to GemFacts by text; at first it had bothered him, the repeated disappointment of thinking a person had contacted him and then discovering it was just an impersonal update.
Usl called Gregory again. “I can’t come in today,” he said.
“Take a joke,” Gregory said. “They’re talking things they don’t know. Have those talkers ever handled gold rings like they were chickpeas? They’re nobodies. So what if they say you’re fat. You are fat. I’m also fat. It’s not like it’s not true.”
Gregory was a cheerful man, and the son of a Holocaust survivor; he had six children, and he sometimes wore a T-shirt that read, “I Have the Body of a God: Buddha.” “If you wanted to not be fat, you would be not fat,” he said.
“It’s not just that,” Usl said. The two sports announcers, Mike and Mike—voices Usl knew well, had thought of as friends of his, in a way—had said of sleeping Usl the kinds of things that people say. Unpleasant things. But the words of those false friends had then bloomed into much worse words, typed up by viewers whose numbers were growing without perceptible limit. Usl was reading:
Please rid us of your nasty pimpled ass and put a shotgun in your mouth tonight, I’ll buy the shells
Then:


He is a waste of decent seats, he can sleep at the nachos stand and give a real fan a view, lol
Usl said to Gregory, “What really bothers me is that they think I don’t appreciate baseball. They think I don’t understand what’s at stake.”
“Sure. It’s suicide or sniper,” Gregory said. “And you don’t want to be a sniper—I get it—so instead you feel really bad, you turn it on yourself. So as not to kill people. But it’s also not suicide or sniper: it’s just get your pants on and get on with your day. Do I have a chicken for an employee? I need a man. It’s man or pansy, it’s—”
Usl hung up.
Usl had been unemployed for seventeen months when he got the job with Gregory. When he started working, his mother gave him a polished blue stone to keep in his pocket, to ward off evil. Mock if you want, but the stone had worked. Usl had been enjoying his job for more than a year now. He had even made a flyer on how to detect fake gold. The magnet test was overrated, the flyer explained. In Usl’s years of experience (even though it had been less than one when he made the flyer), he had seen plenty of non-magnetic fake gold; recognizing real gold versus fake was about getting a feel for the weight of the thing in your hands. That flyer of Usl’s had been downloaded from his open Facebook page a hundred and seventy-three times.
That had seemed like a big number. It had brought attention to Gregory’s shop. Gregory kept a poster of faces with various expressions on the office wall—it was something the Chinese restaurant nearby had given them—and Gregory had written Usl’s name under the face labelled “Triumphant.” He had done this after an eighty-four-year-old woman, who had bought gold every birthday of her life, brought it all in to sell after seeing a horoscope that read, “Even a Gemini needs to slow down a bit once in a while, and with your ruler Mercury still moving retrograde this is the ideal time.” She explained to Usl that she had visited several buyback places. She chose Usl. Because she trusted him, because she could see his goodness in the way that his hands were not bossy or deceptive. Usl had never before thought about his hands. But he did think, then, that it was true what she had said, that they were good hands.
By midday Tuesday, Usl had understood a few things. One was that he should have been in contact with his mother. Usl had not gone to the paper to be photographed; Usl had ceased to answer either of his phones. But his mother was in the papers; his mother had been photographed. In her own home, sitting in her armchair, with a red geranium plant at her side. In the caption, she was quoted: “He was very tired, because he has been working very hard. He is my son of gold.” In the article, she was asked about Usl’s name, which some people had said was short for “useless.” She said that, no, that was not the case, that Usl had been the nickname of Usl’s grandfather, Warhel, a beautiful soul who had died during a flu outbreak when he was only thirty-four. And, as for Usl himself, Usl was not a nickname, Usl was his full proper name, it was enough.
Usl called his mother. 
“Someone had to tell them about the real you,” she said. “Here you are—this celebrity—but the celebrity is this person who isn’t you. They made me look very old in that picture, because of the green lighting, but I’m O.K. with that, because a mother has to fix what is said about her son, whatever the cost.”
“Nothing’s fixed,” Usl said. He had the feeling, as he often did with his mother, that he was speaking to a ghost poorly educated about the present.
“They thought you were drunk,” she went on. “Many people thought that. You can’t let them think that—it will affect your future employment. I explained that you drink only Diet Coke.”
That bit about the Diet Coke wasn’t true, but Usl let it pass. “You’re destroying me,” he said, albeit softly.
The truth was, Usl knew, that the photograph of his mother was not as damaging as the papers that Berge had filed on his behalf.
Who gets paid 10 million to sleep there like a fat ass. FUCK YOU FATTY.
Berge had asked for nine million dollars in damages, not ten; of course the commenters had the details wrong, had everything wrong. Usl should have followed his old rule: no decisions after midnight. It was said that the filing was full of misspellings and grammatical errors.
What a loser. And now he’s suing? Double loser. His suit is the only thing that brought the world’s attention to him. Triple loser. And if there is any justice on this earth, this case will be tossed out and he’ll be ridiculed and humiliated all over. We’re dealing with a quadruple loser at the very least, folks.
Berge was always full of ideas. One should stay away from people with ideas.
Americas pre-occupation with sports is obscene. Can’t tell you how many kids I know can recite batting averages, game plays, but don’t know the first 5 books of the Bible. Nor could they recite an account beyond Noah’s Ark, and when they do its Hollywoodized to the point of recognizable gibberish. They Idolize these players, who in turn Idolize Money. Then these Sports-gods humiliate their fans, and their fans try to capitalize, and the lawyers capitalize. Who ends up loosing?
Ignominy was the only type of celebrity around. At least for Usl and everyone he knew.
“I love you,” his mother texted again. “I love you very much. I love you very, very much. You are a strong man. They are trying to hunt down and destroy you. But you are a cheetah.”
And then, automated delivery: “Gold is unaffected by oxygen at any temperature.” If only.
Say what you will, Usl wanted to get a slice. Why not? He would leave his apartment. He could do it. Usl stepped into the elevator, which today smelled like urine; also there were bugs sun-printed in the case of the light fixture. He normally enjoyed his elevator; it had a mechanical floor-indicator arrow that still worked. It was classy. Just as he himself was classy. That was the truth. He worked with gold, which did not rust.
As he stepped out of the building, he saw three of his neighbors playing dominoes. One held up a newspaper and shook it at him, in fellowship or menace, he didn’t know. He had more than once dreamed of everyone recognizing him, of extending a series of half waves to acknowledge his fellows with respect as he passed them on the street; now he walked by his neighbors quickly, panting slightly.
He ordered a slice of pepper-and-mushroom. The server put a slice of pepperoni on a paper plate. Usl re-stated what he wanted—pepper-and-mushroom. Mexican pop was playing loudly. The server had a red bandanna tied back over his thick black hair. Always Mexicans at the Italian places, Usl thought. The server squinted at Usl. A squint of recognition? “Pep-per-and-mush-room,” Usl reënunciated. The guy gave him a second slice. “Just one slice,” Usl said. “Just the pepper-and-mushroom. No pepperoni.”
It was worked out. Nobody had shouted. A triumph.
“Yo, thanks,” Usl said.
“Yo? It’s not the barrio, man,” the server said. “Be polite.”

People were disgusting. You gave your heart, you tried to be considerate, and who cared? They thought Usl could be pushed around. Why did it seem so clear that he could be pushed around? How did they know? Other people slept at baseball games. The games were sometimes boring. There were commercials between innings, and also commercials mid-inning. The batters took their time getting to the box, as if nothing else in the world, no one else in the world, existed. It was selfish, really. There were millions and millions and millions of other people who were treated with more respect than Usl. Maybe billions. Some of them stupid, some fat, some ugly, whatever it was, but that was the truth, Usl didn’t invent it. Who did they think they were—Brad Pitt? They couldn’t all be Brad Pitt. If Brad Pitt had criticized him, that would be a different thing.
One day they weren’t going to have Usl to kick around anymore. One day they’d be sorry. This was among the things that he hadn’t said. That he kept not saying. He had not assumed another identity, or his own, and pursued the pursuers online. Oh, he had been tempted, but that was what the Others would do. He had not told the Others what he thought of them.
Usl was finishing his pizza when a man in an orange T-shirt and a hard hat, holding a large soda in one hand, made eye contact with him. Then he raised a fist in the air and shouted, “Yankees!”
Instinctively, Usl raised his fist in return. As if in the childishly imagined kingdom of fellowship and dignity.
“It’s you, right?” the hard-hat man said.
Usl said, “No.”
But already the man in the hard hat was signalling to others around him, shouting, calling things out. The hats were gathering.
Usl could find a small makeshift hut in the woods, not far from a beach. He had seen one once; he was going to go and live there. When the time seemed right, in maybe ten or fifteen years, he would return to civilization. He would be very fit, from living a life in nature. He would say his name was Dave. He would tell people how they should live. They would listen.
But he at least owed Gregory notice that he would be leaving, that he would be gone forever, sort of. Also, his paycheck would be useful. He was owed eight days. Truth be told, he wanted to run the idea by Gregory. Gregory, he realized, was like a dad to him. He would get his blessing.
Just in front of Gregory’s, as Usl was staring at his phone—“You are my star and my sunshine!”—someone tapped him on the shoulder.
By primal reflex, Usl nearly hit the man, shouted, defending his body.
The man was saying, “Hey, hey, hey, sorry. I was just saying hello.”
Usl looked up fully from his phone and realized it was Andre, the guy who regularly stood in front of Gregory’s, handing out flyers for the business. Andre was a very slim and fairly straightforwardly good-looking black man; his appearance, today, seemed like a reproach. Usl said, “I apologize, I’m in such a high state of alert.”
“A silver alert?” Andre asked.
“A what?” Usl said, his fear returning.
“Forget it, relax, forget it. I meant on your phone.”
“What’s silver, what’s alert?” Usl said. Was he being asked about Google Alerts? About GemFacts? How was everyone allowed inside his head, his computer, his phone, his dreams.
“Like a silver alert, for when old people go missing,” Andre said. “Amber alert for when a kid is missing, silver for old people. I think there’s other colors, too. Sorry, I know you’re under stress. It’s just been on my mind. I was wondering how you get one of those alerts sent out. Like, once we found my mom near where the buses are parked, between Ninth and Tenth Avenues. She had no idea how to get home. She lives right near here, but she gets lost. And I’m not in a total panic about her, but she’s not answering my calls this morning, so I was asking. Is your mom old? Is she right in the head?”
Andre had always seemed to Usl like a man with girlfriends, never like a man with a mom. Usl still had the polished good-luck stone from his mother. She was always trying, she was still trying. Usl said, “You could go look for her.”
“Tell Gregory I’m back in thirty minutes,” Andre said.
“They’re nobodies, Usl,” Gregory said when he went inside. “They are small, small people who can’t find their own dicks because they are so small.”
“You’re a terrible man, Gregory. You’re one of them.”
“I’m just trying to cheer you up.”
“By being a monster.”
“Not nice.”
“You’re like a disease. For all I know, you started the comments about me. What do I know? Evil isn’t choosy. For all I know, you gave them my phone number.” Usl had yelled at no one yet; he was now yelling at Gregory. He found that he had quite a lot to say. He said Gregory didn’t even care about Andre’s mom.
“You know what, Usl? I’m going to tell you something that maybe you don’t want to hear.”
Usl was ready for it.
Gregory said, “I’m going to tell you that I love you, and that I care for you.”
Usl began to cry. He cried a little more. Eventually he said, “I’m just so tired. When I’m tired, I make bad decisions.”
“I understand,” Gregory said. “You know, scientists used to ask, Why do we sleep? What is the purpose of sleep? But then other scientists said that these are the wrong questions. The question is, Why are we so often awake? What is the purpose of being awake? I mean, besides for ten minutes of eating, a little bit of romance. Once that’s over, why are we not immediately again asleep?”
Gregory went on, “And so I said to myself one day, about this sleep question: This is the answer to the problem of evil. The question isn’t, Why is there evil? The question is, Why is there good? I mean, it’s not, Why is there the bubonic plague and Putin? It’s, Why is there spring and love and barbecue? Why is there ever an unrequired kind act? Look, I’m just telling you how I go about my life, because I am old and you are still young. There isn’t supposed to be any gold in the crust of the earth. It’s a very heavy element. All the gold should be in the molten core. Unreachable for us. So why do we keep finding gold in the crust? How did it get there? Some people say it’s meteorites that fell, that crashed, and that this catastrophe splashed up gold. That’s the only reason we come across it. I don’t subscribe to this theory. But I am sharing it with you.”
Usl’s sleep at the baseball game had been a sweet one. Sifting past and beyond the ensuing terror, he found that he could remember that sleep, he could remember his dream. He had been at a really nice desk, of a dark, well-polished wood. He recognized the desk; it had made an appearance in real life. When he was just a kid—a real kid, not a twenty-eight-year-old who felt like a kid but a twelve- or thirteen-year-old who really was that—he had been delivering something to a lawyer, to a proper lawyer. That lawyer had sat at such a desk. But before he saw it little Usl had waited outside the lawyer’s office, outside but inside, inside the outer chamber, in the air-conditioning, and the secretary, a gentle-faced woman who looked a little bit like the pretty woman who drove a taxi in that old TV show, had asked him if he wanted some water. She had brought him some, in a cone-shaped paper cup, from the water cooler. This, Usl thought, must be real life. He must have been thirsty at the game. He must have been waiting. 

