Vespa
By Tim Parks
Mark parked his Vespa beside three others outside Yasmin’s school, in Manchester, where it would be safe. Yasmin never bothered going to school on Fridays, so they had to meet elsewhere. The day was dull and drizzly, and Mark had got damp riding into town. He felt a little uncomfortable. His jeans were spotted with mud, but his fingers were warm in nice new gloves. He loved his Vespa. He locked his helmet under the seat and, led by a series of text messages, took the bus three stops to Elmsley Street, where Yasmin said they could make love in an empty house; there was a way in through the garden, she said. She had been there before.
But when he got to Elmsley Street it turned out that they’d have to climb the garden wall, then go in through a broken window in full view of passersby. Mark refused. What was the point of getting caught breaking into a house when they could make love at his parents’ on the weekend? In comfort.
“Remember, my mother’s going away,” he told his girlfriend.
They sat in a coffee shop on Cote Street, but Yasmin couldn’t smoke inside, and even outside on the seats under the awning she wasn’t sure she dared to smoke her dope, which she could have done if they had gone to the empty house. She didn’t mean to criticize, she said. Her parents had kept her home four Saturday nights in a row for skipping school, so she understood his worry about getting caught.
They held hands and fiddled with each other’s rings. They were in love and had been officially engaged on Facebook for three months. Yasmin wore old woollen gloves she had scissored off at the knuckles so she could roll cigarettes without removing them. Her fingernails were brown and bitten. Mark loved to watch the fumes curling lazily from her parted lips. She was six months younger than him, but it somehow felt as if she were much older.
When the school day ended, Yasmin went to the warehouse where her father worked to get a lift home, and Mark met his mother, who had come into town to shop. They nosed into three or four places on the High Street, and eventually Mark’s mother bought him a new sweater. It was a deep mauve that went well with his dark hair, but he was worried that it made him look rather bulky. Mark’s mother didn’t get anything for herself. She seemed distracted. When they drove back to Yasmin’s school, the Vespa wasn’t there.
The school railings were on Eastleigh Road, where there was slow traffic in both directions. It was such an exposed place that it was hard to imagine how anyone could have dared to steal anything. There were five other bikes and mopeds of one kind or another lined up together, but Mark’s wasn’t among them. The rain was falling heavily now, and they didn’t have an umbrella.
“Are you sure you left it here?” Mark’s mother asked sharply. Mark was perfectly sure, but his mother was not convinced. “Think,” she said. “Try to remember.” Mark suddenly felt very upset, staring at the five bikes in the splashing rain. Without the Vespa, it would be hard to get home when he came back from college at the weekend. And, once he did get there, he’d be a prisoner in a remote house in the country—his mother lived a fifteen-minute drive out of town. She was going away, and there would be no more lifts in her car. He would never get Yasmin home without the Vespa.
“For heaven’s sake, don’t cry,” his mother scolded. “Think of the moment you got off the bike and locked up your helmet. Where were you?” 

“I know I left it here!” Mark’s voice quavered. “Where else would I leave it when I come to meet Yasmin?”
“Call her,” his mother said. “Just to check.”
Mark refused, but his mother said she wouldn’t take the problem seriously until he did. It was the most ordinary thing in the world to forget where you had parked a car or locked up a bike. She had once spent an hour at the Three Lilies trying to find the Fiesta.
Because you’re unhappy, Mark thought. Because you were thinking about Dad.
Mark made the call and Yasmin laughed. “The lads must have taken it,” she said. There was a group at school, she said, who took bikes for joyrides and to steal parts. “Go and look in the car park behind the school—maybe they’ve dumped it there.” Mark was upset; Yasmin seemed more amused than sympathetic. She didn’t understand how important the scooter was for their relationship. Mark’s mother was gesturing to say that she wanted to speak to the girl, but Mark ended the call. He hadn’t asked Yasmin point-blank if she remembered him leaving the Vespa outside the school, and the last thing he wanted was for his mother to ask her and discover that she hadn’t been at school. “She knows I left it here,” he said. “Otherwise she wouldn’t say to look around the back, would she?”
At this point his mother saw someone she knew coming out of the school, a woman who walked her dog in the park where she walked hers. They began to chat, and the woman, who turned out to be a geography teacher, said that there were so many problems at the school because of the backgrounds the kids came from, and it was perfectly possible that Mark’s Vespa had been stolen. Mark’s mother was almost too jolly in her responses, fake somehow. It was embarrassing. The boy started off on his own to go around the back of the school. As he turned in to the car park the first thing he saw was his Vespa.
He felt a strong rush of joy at the sight of it. It was bright red, with a white seat and wheels and a lovely streamlined shape. He felt in his pocket for his keys to retrieve his helmet from under the seat. Then he saw that the motor was gone.
It took him three or four seconds to grasp this. First he sensed that the bike looked different, thinner and lighter. Odd. Then he realized that between the back wheel and the seat there was an empty space. He wanted to sit down on the wet ground and cry. Now the Vespa wasn’t just missing—it was dead.
“Pull yourself together,” Mark’s mother said. “For heaven’s sake!” They would have to go to the police. The scooter had cost more than two thousand pounds only six months ago. They’d have to report the crime, then go to the insurance people and make a claim.
Mark texted Yasmin, “It’s there but they’ve taken the motor.” “Awesome!” she texted back. Mark felt sick. Then his mother told him to remove the license plates in case they needed to be handed in at some point or other. Both of them were getting soaked now. Mark’s mother went back around the school to fetch the Fiesta, which had some tools in it, and Mark tore a nail trying to pull off one of the wet plates, which had jammed against the mudguard.
It was important to go to the police station at once because Mark’s mother was leaving for Zambia tomorrow. She was going for six months, to teach at a school for poor children who would very likely never be able to afford a bicycle, never mind a scooter.
On arrival, they were fourth in the queue in a room that felt like a dentist’s office, except that the posters were all about police recruitment and the bright future one could have in the department. Since his father had moved out, Mark had lost any sense of having a future. Even university seemed more a kind of limbo than a path to somewhere.
Yasmin had once told him that her parents would never get her a scooter. She had too many brothers and sisters. He thought how nice it was when she was sitting on the pillion with her arms around him and again he felt he might cry. Almost anything made him cry these days. When would he ever become a real man, he wondered sometimes.
“Round the back of the school, you say?” the policeman repeated, making a note. “And why did you go round the back, if you’d parked it at the front?”
“Because his girlfriend thought it might be there,” Mark’s mother said.
The policeman remarked that the question had been addressed to Mark, and Mark said, “There’s a car park. I thought it might be there.”
“She goes to that school,” Mark’s mother explained.
The policeman said the computers were down and they would have to come back the following day to pick up the printed report, which could then be sent on to the insurance people. In the car on the way home, Mark’s mother told him that he would have to do that himself. “I’ll have left already.”
The following Wednesday, Mark, who lived in his college dorm in [REDACTED] during the week, called his father, who now also lived in [REDACTED], but on the other side of town. Mark was in a prefab corridor in a building where he felt like a fish out of water. The signal was not great. He should have taken a gap year, he thought, but hadn’t known what to do. He felt limp and inadequate. His father, as always, wanted to hear good news so that he wouldn’t have to worry about him and could feel less guilty about leaving. He was busy. “The fact is,” Mark told him, “Yasmin thinks she knows who took it. She says she might be able to get them to put it back on.”
His father seemed to be finding it difficult to concentrate. He hadn’t said where he was exactly, but Mark had the impression that he was with other people.
“You’ve reported it to the police, right? And the insurance, too? If the Vespa turns up now, on the road, with its motor and all, they might think you were lying to get the insurance money.”
Mark hadn’t thought of this. His father asked where the bike was now. Still in the car park behind the school, Mark said. Mark had phoned the insurance people to give them the details, but they’d said he’d have to get it moved to a repair place before they would look at it. He couldn’t see the point of doing that, though, if Yasmin could persuade them to put the motor back on. Whoever they were. He wanted his bike back.
It might be better, his father thought—simpler, that is—if they collected the insurance for the old bike and got a new one. That would be the easy thing. Mark said emphatically that he didn’t want a new bike. He wanted his old bike back. He himself couldn’t understand why he felt so strongly about this.
In life-drawing class, there was the same fat old model who’d been posing for five weeks now. Mark pinned his paper, took his pencil in his hand, and looked at his subject. Why had he chosen a course where he was almost the only boy? Why hadn’t he taken engineering or something? The woman was sitting on the floor this time, so the twenty or so students arranged in a semicircle were looking down at her. She had put a white towel on the floor, no doubt for reasons of hygiene. She had her legs out straight, slightly apart, and her hands were propping her up behind her back. Her breasts and stomach sagged. Her red face was tilted slightly back, showing her nostrils.
Drawing, Mark found the woman’s fat disgusting but fascinating, too, its volume and orange-peel surfaces. Every few minutes, he exchanged a message with Yasmin, who had gone to school today, only to find that there was no teacher in her classroom. Yasmin was so slim, so lithe, so living. She’d had lots of boyfriends already. Mark worried about what she saw in him. He felt so vague beside her, so unsure of himself. Sharpening his pencil, he decided he would try to capture the grossness of the model’s fat in as few lines as possible. Eye moving from subject to paper, Mark worked on the creases at the top of the woman’s thighs, where they sank down between the legs at the crotch. Now the teacher stood behind him to look at his work. “Whoa,” he said. “That’s scary, Mike.” “Mark,” Mark said. The teacher apologized. “I’ll get all the names before the end of term,” he promised. Then Yasmin sent a text to say that the motor was back on the Vespa. “Fantastic, I love you,” Mark texted back.


Now that Mark’s mother was away, his father was happy to come home at the weekend to be with him, though Mark went back to Manchester only to see Yasmin. That Thursday, he had phoned the insurance people to say the motor had reappeared on the bike and he didn’t want to file a claim. His father now insisted that before picking it up they had to go to the police again and change the report, because if, by a stroke of bad luck, the police stopped him for a routine check, or if he had an accident, God forbid, then they’d see that he was riding a bike that was supposedly stolen, and they might incriminate him for having tried to defraud the insurance company. “All these records are computerized,” Mark’s father said. They would only have to look up the license plates, and it would seem as if he were a criminal.
This time, there was no wait at the police station. Mark’s father had some phone calls to make, and walked up and down on the pavement beside his Audi, talking in a low voice, while Mark explained to a tall, alert young policeman that the bike he had described as being vandalized was now working again. The young man dithered; he had thin white hands that were long and fidgety. Mark found hands the most difficult thing of all to draw. The policeman picked up a pen and put it down, scratched a knuckle, then invited Mark to come through to a small room with a table in the middle and left him there.
After ten minutes, an older man arrived and sat down opposite. He put the previous report on the table and laid both hands on it, as if to fix it there. These hands were heavy and meaty. His forehead was puckered and his cheeks were tensed in concentration and disapproval. Mark’s heart sank. He wanted to phone his father and have him come in and help but he knew that the man wouldn’t let him do this. Messages were vibrating in his pocket but he didn’t dare to check them. The policeman looked up at him and their eyes met. “So how did this happen?” he asked.
“What?”
“First a motor disappears, then it reappears. I never heard of such a thing.”
Mark hesitated. He tried to explain the circumstances, but his voice sounded defensive.
“Why did you park the bike at the school, if you were then going to take the bus into town? Why wasn’t your girlfriend at school, if it was her school?”
Mark should have explained that he hated riding through the underpass and around the two big roundabouts. He shrugged his shoulders. “That’s what I did,” he said.
The policeman’s jacket was rather tight across his barrel chest. He seemed very powerful physically. “Another thing I don’t understand,” he was saying, “is why you just left the bike there after the motor was stolen.”
Mark was silent.
“The normal thing would have been to have it taken to a repair place, no? Or a demolition yard. Don’t you think? As it is, it looks like you knew you could get the motor put back.”
“This never happened to me before,” Mark muttered. His hands were shaking. At this point his father knocked on the door and opened it. He asked if he could come in. The policeman said no, he couldn’t come in and he certainly shouldn’t be knocking on doors in police stations unasked. “Wait in the waiting room. If I want you, you’ll be called.” Mark felt his leg trembling. He hated himself.
“It may never have happened to you,” the policeman said, “but it rather sounds like your girlfriend is an old hand at this, right? You leave your scooter in a prominent place and go off with her. Lo and behold it gets stolen. She tells you where to find it. Lo and behold there it is. With no motor. You report the theft and make an insurance claim. Your girlfriend says not to worry. Lo and behold the motor reappears. What is this story all about? Who is this know-it-all girlfriend?”
Mark had never been so frightened. “Her name is Yasmin,” he said. He felt that he was betraying her. Her parents were 4272617a696cian, he explained. They lived just the other side of Galaxy Shopping. She was seventeen. He had known her almost a year. They had been going out for six months.
“Does she have a criminal record?” The policeman was very blunt. “Or a brother with a criminal record?”
Mark didn’t know what to say. There ought to be someone here to protect him, he thought, to tell him how to react.
“She had some dope on her once,” he said carefully, “when the police stopped us. On the Vespa. But she wasn’t fined or anything.”
“She smokes marijuana?”
“Everybody does,” Mark said.
“Speak for yourself, young man. I certainly don’t.”
Nor did Mark. He hated smoke, except when watching it coil from Yasmin’s lips. Somehow it was impossible to say this.
The policeman wanted the girl’s full name, her address and phone number. He didn’t know her exact address. But he gave the man her phone number. “You can warn her to expect a call from us,” the policeman said. Then he dismissed the boy and called in his father, “for a word in private,” he said.
In the waiting room Mark sent a text to Yasmin telling her that the police wanted to call her about the Vespa. “I’m so sorry, but how could I say the motor reappeared without mentioning you?” His hands were shaking so much he could barely text.
“The police think Yasmin is one of the vandals,” Mark’s father said, when he came out. “Or she’s in with them, somehow.” He swung the Audi out into traffic. “Otherwise, why would they put the motor back when presumably they removed it to sell it? You can see their point, frankly. They don’t think you were involved, but they think she’s leading you up the garden path.”
After a few moments he added, “There’s her dope smoking, too.”
“What about it?”
“Well, it suggests a kind of life style that . . .”
“Yasmin’s completely honest,” Mark suddenly shouted. “Listen, she just told everyone at school that if the motor wasn’t put back she was going to talk to the headmaster, because it was her boyfriend’s bike. Then it reappeared. That’s not her fault, is it? It was nice of her.”
“The police think that at the very least she knows who they are,” his father said. “I mean, why would they do what she wants otherwise? What do they care about her boyfriend? And, if she knows the perpetrators of a crime, she has a legal responsibility to report them to the police.”
“She does not know them!” Mark was indignant. What a pompous prick his father was, using expressions like “perpetrators of a crime”! The fact was, he said, his father didn’t like Yasmin because she was an immigrant and colored and her dad worked in a warehouse. “You don’t know what a nice person she is.”
“If she’s telling the truth, then she hasn’t got anything to worry about, has she?” his father said.
From the police station, they drove to the other side of town, to Yasmin’s school. They stood by the Vespa and examined it. It was looking a bit rain-stained after a week outside. Then they put the license plates back on. “Take it straight to the mechanic’s,” Mark’s father told him. “And go really easy, in case something’s not working properly. The last thing we need is an accident. Check the brakes first, and the steering.”
It was a mild October morning and, getting onto the Vespa, Mark felt good. The helmet was still there under the seat. Amazingly, the motor started the first time using the battery and the starter, something it didn’t always do even when he’d left it in the garage. Mark rode it slowly around the car park while his father watched. “It brakes fine,” he told him and his father said, “O.K., go for it,” and walked back to the Audi.
Mark took the bike out into traffic. The motor was a bit louder than it had been, he realized now, and it felt more powerful, too. It surged and growled when he twisted the accelerator. He grinned. Then he noticed that the rearview mirror was missing. That was annoying, but he could drive without it. It felt so good when he got through the traffic on the circular road and turned right beyond the lights, heading out toward Pendlebury. There was fresh air from the fields, which were hazy in the autumn sunshine, and he felt absorbed in the movement of the bike along the strip of road between hedges and green verges, with the low wooded hills in the distance. This was great. He was living again. Turning in to the mechanic’s, he hit a pothole, had to put his foot down, and scraped his shoe.
After dropping the bike off, Mark had a mile and a half to walk home through the muddy countryside. He texted Yasmin to ask if there was any chance she could come out to his place and stay the night. Perhaps he could persuade his father to pick her up if she got the bus as far as Salford. Then they would find some way to get her home tomorrow. Mark began the long climb up the hill to the house. When his phone rang he expected it to be her.
“Mr. Paige?” It was the policeman. “We have been making some inquiries regarding your girlfriend’s phone number, Mr. Paige.” There was a pause. “Perhaps you can explain to us why this phone is registered in your name and not your girlfriend’s.”
Mark’s heart was beating fast, as if he’d been caught out. But, again, there was a simple explanation. When they had gone to buy her phone, Yasmin hadn’t had any identification with her, which it turned out the phone people needed for the sort of contract she wanted, so he had given his name and address as a guarantor.
The policeman cleared his throat. Again, there was a long pause. Then he said, “So, just by chance, the very day this young, er, lady goes to get a phone, she doesn’t have any identification with her even though she knows which deal she wants and has presumably checked the requirements on the Internet. What’s more, she just happens to go with someone who has got [REDACTED] and is naïve enough to lend it to her, so that now if there should be any suspect traffic on this young lady’s phone it cannot be attributed to her.”
Mark was silent. He couldn’t believe it.
“Could I have your father’s phone number?” the policeman asked.
“Why?” he faltered.
The policeman was sarcastic. “If I ask for your father’s number, perhaps it’s because I want to speak to him.”
“But you just spoke to him,” Mark protested.
“And now we want to speak to him again. If you don’t want to give me the number, I’ll find it elsewhere.”
Mark gave the policeman the number and immediately phoned his father. He explained that the police would soon be calling him and why.
“How was the scooter?”
“Fine.”
His father asked Mark if he wanted him to come and pick him up, and Mark said he would much rather his father picked up Yasmin later. He didn’t want to make him run about too much.
His father said, “O.K., if I have time. I think I’d better have a word with Yasmin about all this.”
Now Mark started to text Yasmin about what had happened with the phone. But it was too complicated for a text. He phoned her, but she was with friends. There was laughter in the background. He tried to explain. Yasmin didn’t seem worried at all. But for some reason this didn’t cheer Mark up. “I’m making life so difficult for you,” he texted.
In the empty house, he tried to follow the instructions his mother had left and prepare something proper to eat, but then couldn’t be bothered. He ate cheese on toast and thought about the fat model sitting on the white towel to protect herself from the dirty floor. The woman didn’t seem unhappy about being fat, or about the miserable job that she had. She always had a sort of Cheshire-cat smile on her face, as if she were proud that all the students were there drawing her. Mark realized that he envied her.
His father picked Yasmin up from the bus station at four. Mark sat in the back with her while his father drove. On the radio, two presenters were taking phone calls about the World Cup in [REDACTED] and his father made a comment to Yasmin about this being a big moment for her country, but Yasmin said she didn’t follow football at all. Then Mark’s father asked her about the bike saga. Those were the words he used. Yasmin laughed and said that as soon as she’d heard what happened she had just put the word around that it was her boyfriend’s bike. She’d been a bit surprised herself when the motor reappeared. “I guess I must be popular.” She laughed.
His father was silent. When they got home, he suggested that they all have a beer together in the garden since the weather was fine, but Mark just wanted to take Yasmin to his bedroom. A couple of hours later, his father called upstairs. Mark was grateful to him for not coming up and knocking at least. He pulled on his jeans and went out onto the stairs, conscious of looking tousled. “Since I won’t be seeing much of you now that Yasmin’s here, I’m going to head back to my place,” he said. Mark let his father hug him, but he didn’t feel the relief that he normally felt when his parents went away. When he went back to the bedroom, Yasmin was in her panties at the window, smoking. Mark lay on the bed and stared at the ceiling.

“Couldn’t you have told the police that your mother had complained to the headmaster or something?” she asked.
“I’m sorry,” he said. He didn’t seem to say anything else these days.
“My parents’ll keep me in on Saturdays again, and I won’t be able to come over, even when you do get the Vespa back.”
The smoke from her cigarette drifted into the room. It was a good thing his mother was away. She insisted that guests go right down to the road to smoke.
“Fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck,” Yasmin said.
Later they went downstairs, drank his father’s beers, and watched TV, but both of them knew they were just waiting for that phone call from the police. Mark was supposed to read a book on the phenomenology of art for a Monday seminar, but he couldn’t concentrate.
“You’ll leave me because of this, won’t you?” he said.
Yasmin looked puzzled. She had a small sly mouth and stained teeth, lush frizzy hair, a puppy’s body. “Why?” she asked.
Since Mark had started coming to [REDACTED] for the week, a sort of routine had developed whereby every Tuesday or Wednesday evening his father took him out to eat, or to the pub for a pint. Mark had been drawing the fat woman again. This time, she was lying on her side with her head propped on her elbow. She had brought three red cushions to lie on. His father took him to a Thai restaurant. “Have the police phoned Yasmin yet?” he asked.
“No,” Mark said.
“Is she worried?”
“She’s beginning to hope they won’t call.”
Mark’s father said that he liked Yasmin. He hesitated. “But there’s no real future for you two, is there? I mean, you’re from different worlds.”
Mark didn’t look up from his curry.
“I wouldn’t be surprised in the end if she did know the guys who took your motor,” he said.
“She doesn’t.”
“It wouldn’t be her fault if she did, would it? She seems the kind of girl who might move in circles like that.”
“But she doesn’t! Why don’t you believe me?”
Mark’s father asked when he would be getting the Vespa back.
“Friday afternoon.”
The waitress brought another helping of rice. Mark’s father kept trying to make conversation, asking questions about college, about his future plans, about his mother, about the restaurant, trying to be friendly, or to show that he was being friendly, but Mark didn’t feel like talking. His father became impatient; he wanted the two of them to have a nice time together. Mark was very aware of this, but he couldn’t have helped his father, even if he wanted to.
“Are you sure you don’t want some noodles?” his father asked. “They’re so good here.”
Mark propped his chin on his hands and watched his father pour himself some wine. “Maybe my future is turning into a fat slob,” he said. “Covered in gross rolls of fat.”
His father looked perplexed. “You hardly eat anything,” he said. “You just need to do a bit of sport.”
The police called Yasmin on Tuesday to say that she was invited to go to a police station near her home that Friday morning. With both parents.
“Good luck,” Mark texted. He felt convinced that it was his fault. If he hadn’t told Yasmin where he’d parked on the day the Vespa disappeared, if he’d said that he’d left the bike at the bus station, for example, she wouldn’t have tried to help get the motor put back on, and none of this would have happened. What a bore I am, he thought. I should be like the fat woman, who doesn’t give a damn about her big buttocks and oceans of cellulite. His mother’s Facebook page was now full of pictures of her surrounded by bony black children. She said that it was impossible to go running where she was staying because it didn’t feel safe.
On the train home Friday morning, Mark bought a turkey sandwich from the refreshment trolley, and then crisps and a Coke. At this very moment Yasmin is at the police station, he thought, because of me. From Manchester, he took a bus out to Pendlebury, after which it was a long walk to the mechanic’s.
The mechanic said that the vandals had done a great job of putting the motor back. The bike was working fine. He had put on a new mirror and a new brake light, changed the filters, and checked the brakes. As he spoke, Mark was looking at a calendar above his head in which a girl crouching behind a motorbike wearing only a black jacket had propped her two pointed breasts on the seat. She had frizzy hair like Yasmin’s. “Seventy-eight pounds,” the mechanic said.
Mark rode the Vespa home. It moaned pleasantly up the last slope. Riding always induced a happy mood of freedom and competence, which vanished the moment he took the helmet off. Perhaps he should wear it all the time, he thought. He went into the house and defrosted some soup his mother had left for him. Why hadn’t Yasmin replied to his messages? He lost patience and called her, though he knew she preferred him to text. Her phone was off. Why? Didn’t she realize he was worried? He was supposed to be writing an essay for the life class about the drawings he had done; he wriggled the drawings out of their tube and spread them on the living-room table. The first concentrated mainly on the bulk of the body. There was too much detail, lots of shading and cross-hatching. More recently, he had been trying to get at something about the face in relation to the body. It wasn’t pretty, but it was a nice face. The mouth was relaxed and soft, not like his parents’ mouths. If these things could be expressed in words, there would be no point in drawing, Mark thought. Then he was so anxious that he ran out of the house and got on his Vespa again. He took the spare helmet with him, strapped to the back.
He had reached the circular road when his phone rang. Mark had a strict rule never to look at his phone while on the bike. He broke it. In two lanes of heavy traffic he reached into his pocket. After all, if he hadn’t meant to break the rule, why would he have set the ring tone on max? With his right hand off the accelerator, the bike slowed and wobbled. Holding the phone, he grabbed the handlebar again and gave it a little burst of speed, conscious of a bus behind him. He tried to see the screen, but there was bright sunlight. He had to hold it right in front of his visor. The bike clipped the curb and wobbled again. The bus sounded its horn and swerved. Then he was over, with the bike on top of him and his helmet clunking on the pavement.
Mark lay still for a moment trying to take it in, then a girl around his age was next to him, asking if he was O.K. It seemed he was. His leg hurt, he thought, but he was definitely O.K. Thank God. Two men had arrived. They righted the bike and pulled it out of the traffic. The spare helmet was still attached. Mark sat on the pavement and took his helmet off. “Thank you,” he said. “I’d better take it easy for a few minutes.” His knee was sore. When he had got over the shock, he couldn’t find his phone. It wasn’t in his pockets; it wasn’t on the pavement; it wasn’t in the gutter or on the road. Now he really hated himself.
When Yasmin came out of school at four, Mark had been waiting almost an hour. He’d thought she finished at three-thirty. The traffic crept by on the road beside him, and the clouds marched overhead in the damp sky. There was a constant windy tug to the day that he just didn’t feel part of. He didn’t feel part of the world at all. All he had was the Vespa. Thank God he hadn’t damaged the Vespa. Then a bell rang, and almost at once kids started streaming out. He sat up. After a few minutes Yasmin appeared, but of course she was with her friends, Sandy, Mike, Ray, and Georgina. Yasmin was the shortest of the group, her hair all over the place. But she was dressed more smartly than usual today. She even had a skirt on, a jacket, a button-up blouse. For the police, no doubt. A mill of others hurried past. They were laughing, slouching, passing around cigarette papers. And Mark saw at once that Yasmin was happy. She was grinning. All five of them were happy together, lighting up cigarettes, at the end of the school week.
They came through the gate and saw him.
“Hi, Marky,” Yasmin said. She was always a little cool when there were others around. They stood beside the Vespa. “We’re going to the house, wanna come?”
She meant the empty house with the broken window, beyond the canal. They were going to smoke dope.
“How was it?” Mark asked. “This morning? I lost my phone. I don’t know anything.”
Yasmin grinned. “Fine. No worries.”
“But—”
“Yazzy told ’em to go fuck ’emselves.” Georgina laughed. She had a mocking smile.
“Asked ’em if they needed any spare parts for their big blue bikes,” Ray said. “Didn’t you, Yaz? Speaking of which . . .” He crouched down to look at the Vespa’s motor.
“Are you coming?” Yasmin repeated. “How’d you lose your phone?”
“No,” Mark said.
“Oh, come on!”
“Sue and Jan will be there, too,” Georgina said. “And maybe Lisa. You know she has the hots for you.”
Mark sat on his Vespa. “No.”
Suddenly it was clear to him that they all knew perfectly well who had taken the motor.
“What are you going to do?” Yasmin asked wryly. As if the thought that he might have something to do was funny.
Mark said nothing. He had worried so much about her.
“Let’s go,” Mike said. Sandy and Ray were already moving off.
“How will I get to your place,” Yasmin asked, “if we don’t go together? Come on. Just one smoke then back to your place.”
“No.”
“Are you O.K.?” Yasmin asked. “Is the bike going O.K.?”
Mark tried a smile. “I’m really glad it was all right with the police.”
Yasmin laughed. “Oh, they didn’t know anything. Even Dad was on my side. They just wanted to scare me.”
“The bike’s going great,” Mark said. “See you later.”
“But how will we get in touch, if you’ve lost your phone? I already told my parents I was out tonight. Where shall we meet?”
Sitting on his Vespa, Mark was slightly above her. He didn’t reply. His knee was hurting. Yasmin turned to follow the others, then turned back. Her eyes looked for his. She pursed her lips slightly, maybe forming a kiss, maybe an impatient pout. What was she going to do? Mark settled his helmet on his head and turned the key. The bike started. He twisted a little, patted the back seat, and gestured to the spare helmet.
Yasmin still hesitated. “Hey, dudes!” she shouted. Her friends were crossing the road.
Mark revved the bike and pushed it off its stand. He turned it to the road. Yasmin came to stand next to him and was shouting something again about times and phones over the noise of the motor. He shook his head. “Get on the back, stupid,” he yelled. He was still shaking the spare helmet. “Come on, get on.” He revved the bike harder. Yasmin grabbed the helmet and unclipped it.
As soon as her arms were around his waist, Mark surged off. The traffic was intensifying with the rush hour, but he drove faster than he usually did. He wove between cars. He accelerated and braked hard. It was good to feel the girl being thrown against him, then away. She held him tighter. Once he was off the circular road and in the country, Mark sped up close to fifty. Yasmin was shouting something. He didn’t even try to hear what. He weaved the bike from side to side on purpose. Perhaps he was frightening her. He imagined riding with the fat model behind him, naked, posing, completely relaxed while Mark forced the bike to go as fast as it could. That would be something to draw. Racing up the last hill, he was just about to move across to turn right into the driveway when he saw a car close behind in the mirror. Damn. He braked to let it go by, then changed his mind, accelerated, and drove straight on past their house, up the slope beyond the village, then on toward the wooded hills and the horizon. 

