Silk Brocade
By Tessa Hadley
Ann Gallagher was listening to the wireless, cutting out a boxy short jacket with three-quarter-length sleeves, in a pale-lilac wool flecked with navy. She had cut the pattern from her own design—there was a matching knee-length pencil skirt—then pinned the paper shapes onto the length of cloth, arranging and rearranging them like pieces of a puzzle to make them fit with minimum waste. Now her scissors bit in with finality, growling against the wood surface of the table, the cloth falling cleanly away from the blades. These scissors were sacrosanct and deadly, never to be used on anything that might blunt them. Ann and her friend Kit Seaton were renting the back basement of a big house in a residential area of [REDACTED] for their dressmaking business; because the house was built on a hill, their rooms opened onto a garden, and sunlight fell through the French windows in shifting patches onto Ann’s cutting table.
Someone came down the steps to the side entrance, then tapped on the opaque glass panes of the door; Ann looked up, irritated at being interrupted. Kit said that they should always switch over to the Third Programme when clients came—it was more sophisticated—but there wasn’t time, and Ann could make out enough through the bubbled glass to know that the woman standing on the other side wasn’t sophisticated anyway. She was too bulky, planted there too stolidly, with an unassuming patience. Some clients pushed their faces up against the door and rattled the handle if they were kept waiting for even a moment.
“Ann? Do you remember me? It’s Nola.”
Nola Higgins stood with military straightness, shoulders squared; she was buttoned up into some sort of navy-blue uniform, unflatteringly tight over her heavy bust. “I know I shouldn’t have turned up without an appointment,” she apologized cheerfully. “But do you mind if I ask a quick question?”
Ann and Nola had grown up on the same street in Fishponds and had both won bursary places at the same girls’ grammar school. Nola was already in her third year when Ann started, but Ann had ignored her overtures of friendship and avoided sitting next to her on the bus that took them home. She’d hoped that Nola understood about her need to make new friends and leave Fishponds behind. Nola had trained to be a district nurse when she left school, and Ann didn’t often cross paths with her; now she guessed, with a sinking heart, that Nola had come to ask her to make her wedding dress. There had been other girls from her Fishponds past who’d wanted her to do this—it wasn’t even, strictly speaking, her past, because for the moment she was still living there, at home with her family. She and Kit needed the work, but Kit said that if they were seen to be sewing for just anyone they’d never get off the ground with the right people. Perhaps when Nola knew their prices she’d be put off. Hesitating, Ann looked at her wristwatch. “Look, why don’t you come on in for ten minutes. I am busy, but I’ll take a break. I’ll put some coffee on to perk.”
She showed Nola into the fitting room. They had a sewing room and a fitting room and a little windowless kitchenette and a lavatory; a dentist on the ground floor used the front basement rooms for storage, and they sometimes heard his heavy footsteps on the stairs. The Third Programme helped drown out the sound of his drill when clients came for fittings. Ann and Kit had made gold velvet curtains for the fitting-room windows and covered a chaise longue in matching velvet; on the white walls there were prints of paintings by Klee and Utrillo and a gilt antique mirror with a plant trailing round it. Morning light waited, importantly empty, in the cheval glass. Kit sometimes brought her boyfriends to this room at night, and Ann had to be on the lookout for the telltale signs—dirty ashtrays, wineglasses, crumpled cushions. She was convinced that Kit had actually been making love once on top of someone’s evening dress, laid out on the chaise longue after a fitting.
Ann wondered whether Nola Higgins was impressed by the glamorous new style of her life or simply accepted it, as calmly as she’d have accepted any place she walked into. She must have seen some things during the course of her work as a nurse, some of them horrors. Nola’s home perm made her look closer to their mothers’ age; the dark curls were too tight and flat against her head, and when she sat down she tugged her skirt over her knees, as if she were self-conscious about her broad hips. But her brown eyes were very alert and steady, and she had the kind of skin that was so soft it looked almost loose on her bones, matte pink, as if she were wearing powder, though she wasn’t.
Ann put on the percolator in the kitchenette. Kit had grown up in [REDACTED], or claimed she had, and insisted that they always make real coffee. They served it in little turquoise coffee cups, with bitter-almond biscuits, on a Japanese lacquer tray that Ann had found in a junk shop. Sometimes the coffee was so strong the clients could hardly swallow it.
“I won’t keep you long,” Nola said. “But I have a favor to ask.”
She didn’t have the same broad [REDACTED] accent as her parents—Ann’s mother would have said that she was nicely spoken. It was about a wedding dress, of course. The wedding would be in June, Nola said. It would be a quiet one, at least she hoped so. She knew that this was short notice and probably Ann was all booked up, but they had decided in a hurry. “Not that kind of hurry,” she added, laughing without embarrassment. “I suppose you sometimes have to let out the waists as the brides get bigger.”

Ann was accomplished at congratulating other women on their engagements. She hardly felt a pang—felt instead something sprightly and audacious, more like relief. “Do you know about our prices?” she said tactfully. “I could show you a price list.”
“Oh, that won’t be a problem,” Nola began to say. “Because the man I’m marrying, my fiancé . . .”
And then she had to break off, because her eyes brimmed with tears and a red heat came into her cheeks; Ann had an intuition that the flush ran thrillingly all over her body. Who’d have thought that Nola Higgins would be susceptible to that kind of thrill? She was bending over her handbag, fishing for a handkerchief. “How silly,” she said. “It’s ridiculous, Ann. But I’m just so happy. I can’t quite believe that I’m saying those words, that we’re really going to be married. He’s such a lovely chap. And he’ll be able to pay your prices. I knew you wouldn’t be cheap.”
“Well, aren’t you the lucky one,” Ann said admiringly. “A lovely chap, and he can pay as well!”
“I am lucky! Don’t I know it. I was his nurse, you know, when he was very poorly. That’s how we met. But it’s not how it sounds: that isn’t what he wants me for, just to look after him. I mean, to see him now you couldn’t tell he was ever ill, except he has a little limp, that’s all.”
“I’m happy for you,” Ann said.
Nola sat very still, holding her coffee cup in both hands, smiling almost dazedly, accepting the tribute. She had brought some fabric with her in a paper bag—the brides often did, and Ann usually had to talk them out of it. Her fiancé had a lot of material in his home, Nola said, put away in trunks and cupboards. And there were some lovely old clothes, too; Ann should come out and see sometime. Ann made a politely interested noise, wondering if he kept a secondhand shop; she was imagining someone much older than Nola, respectable and considerate, quiet, perhaps a widower. The material in the bag smelled of mothballs, but it looked expensive—thick silk brocade, off-white, embroidered with cream flowers. “It’s old,” Nola said, “but it’s never been used. And there’s some lace, too, good lace. I didn’t bring that—I wanted to ask you first.” She fingered the brocade uneasily, staring down at it. “It’s too much, isn’t it? I’ll look like a dog’s dinner, that’s what I said. I just want to wear something sensible, look like myself. But he insisted, said I had to bring it.”
Ann really was convinced that if you could only find the right clothes you could become whatever you wanted, you could transform yourself. She let the heavy fabric fall out of its folds and made Nola stand up, then held it against her in front of the cheval mirror, pulling it in around her waist, frowning expertly at Nola’s reflection across her shoulder, tugging and smoothing the cloth as if she were molding something. “You see? The off-white is very flattering against your dark hair and your lovely skin. There isn’t enough for a whole dress if you want full length, but I think we could get a fitted bodice and a little peplum out of it and find a matching plain fabric for the skirt. With your full figure you want to go for a nice clean silhouette, nothing fussy. This could look stunning, actually.”
“Do you think so?” Nola’s eyes, doubting and trusting, looked out from the reflection into hers.
Kit came slamming through the glass door after lunch, in the middle of telling some crazy story, screaming with laughter, half cut already, with a couple of men friends in tow. Ann was just starting on the lining for the lilac suit. One of the friends was a medic, Ray, Kit’s current boyfriend, or he thought he was—Ann knew about other things, one married man in particular. The second friend was also a medic. Ann hadn’t seen him before: Donny Ross, who played the piano, apparently, in a jazz band. Donny Ross had a body as thin as a whip and cavernous cheeks and thick jet-black hair with a long quiff that flopped into his eyes. His mouth was small and his grin was surprisingly girlish, showing his small teeth, though he didn’t grin much—or say much. He was mostly saturnine and judgmental. It was obvious to Ann right away that Donny didn’t like Kit. He saw through her bossy know-how and the whole parade of her snobbery: going on about how Proust was her favorite author and her mother used to have her hats made on the Champs-Élysées and weren’t the little bureaucrats who wanted our taxes so ghastly—as if she couldn’t guess what Ann had guessed already, that Donny was a socialist.
He got up while Kit was still talking and went into the kitchenette, banging through the cupboards, looking for something he didn’t find—alcohol, probably; he came out with the bag of sugar and a cup of the coffee that Ann had made for Nola earlier, which must have been quite cold. Then he sat spooning sugar out of the bag into his cup, no saucer, spilling it all over the table, six or seven spoonfuls just to make the coffee bearable, and Kit didn’t say a word about the sugar bag, though she was so particular about everything being served up in the right way. Perhaps Donny Ross frightened her, Ann thought.
She told Kit about Nola’s wedding then; best to get it over with while she was in this mood, and there was company. “I know it’s not exactly our style,” she said. “But we could do with the work.”
She gave Kit the piece of paper where Nola had written down the details, and expected her to make her usual disdainful face when she read through it, as if something smelled funny. Kit had a long, horsey face, tousled honey-colored hair, and a stubby, sexy, decisive little body, like an overdeveloped child’s; she expressed all her tastes and distastes as if they afflicted her physically, through her senses. To Ann’s surprise, she sat up excitedly. “Oh, Lawd, this is a marvel. I can’t believe you don’t know where this wedding is, you angel-innocent. It’s the most perfect little bijou Queen Anne house, tucked away in its own deer park on the way to Bath. Look what you’ve done, you clever daft thing! The pictures will be in all the good papers.”
“But Nola Higgins is from Fishponds. We were at school together.”
“I don’t care who she is. She’s marrying a Perney, and they’ve owned Thwaite Park for centuries.”
Then Ann began to understand why Nola thought she was so lucky. She explained it all to Kit, and showed her the old brocade that Nola had left. “She said he had lots more fabric in his house. And old clothes, too—she thought I might like to see them. And I turned her down! I thought he must be running some kind of secondhand shop!”
“Which, in a funny way, you could say he was,” Donny Ross said.
Kit flopped back onto the chaise longue in exaggerated despair, limbs flung out like a doll’s. “When she comes back, you’re to tell her you’ve changed your mind. I’d die for an invitation to go out there and poke around. Imagine what they’ve got in their attic!”
“Skeletons,” Donny Ross said.
Later that afternoon, while Kit put on different outfits to entertain Ray—and at some point Ray exhibited himself, too, in a green satin gown, made up with Kit’s lipstick and powder—Donny Ross came prowling around where Ann was cutting out the lining for the suit. “Do you mind?” he said. And he called her an angel-innocent and a clever daft thing, in a comical, mincing, falsetto voice. Ann didn’t usually let people into the sewing room; she was anxious about keeping the fabrics pristine. With his hands in his pockets, frowning, Donny was working through some jazz tune to himself, in a way that you couldn’t really call singing; it was more as if he were imitating all the different instruments in turn, taking his hands out of his pockets to bang out the drum part on the end of her cutting table. Ann might just as well not have been there: he threw his head back and stared up into the corners of the room as if all the evidence of her sewing, spread out around him, were simply too frivolous for him to look at. It was peculiar that she didn’t feel any urge to entertain or charm him, though she knew how charming she could be when she tried. She carried on steadily, concentrating on her work, feeling as if some new excitement were waiting folded up inside her, not even tried on yet.
Nola met Kit when she dropped in to look at Ann’s designs. She was still wearing her nurse’s uniform; she wanted to keep on working until she married. Kit went all out to win her over, and Nola sat blinking and smiling—her plain black shoes planted together on the floor, her back straight—under the assault of Kit’s mad exuberance, her flattery. Kit really was good fun; when you were with her something new and outrageous could happen at any moment. Going through the drawings, Nola was full of trepidation. The models in Ann’s designs were haughty and impossibly slender, drifting with their noses tipped up disdainfully. This was how she’d learned to draw them at art college; it was only a kind of shorthand, an aspiration. If you knew how to read the designs, they gave all the essential information about seams and darts.
“She knows what she’s doing,” Kit reassured Nola. “She’s a genius.”
Kit sewed well, and she had a good eye for style; she could work hard when she put her mind to it, but she couldn’t design for toffee or cut a pattern. “Ann’s going to make my fortune for me,” she said. “You wait until we move the business up to [REDACTED]. We’ll be dressing all the stars of stage and screen. I’d put my life in her hands.”
“These do look beautiful,” Nola conceded yearningly.
Eventually, they decided on something classic, full-length, very simple, skimming Nola’s figure without hugging it. Ann would use the brocade that Nola had brought for the bodice and the sleeves, and a matching silk satin, if they could find it, for the skirt. “Unless there’s any more of the brocade?”
Of course they’d planned all along to ask her this, angling for an invitation to Thwaite Park. And, eagerly, Nola invited them. “Blaise would love to meet you,” she said. Privately, Kit chose to doubt this. “He probably thinks it’s pretty funny,” she said, “being invited to meet his fiancée’s dressmaker. I mean, their love affair’s the most darling romantic story I’ve ever heard, and Nola’s an angel—but what I wouldn’t give to be a fly on the wall at that wedding! Fishponds meets Thwaite Park.”
“What do you know about Fishponds?” Ann said sharply.
“Come on, Annie-Pannie. You think it’s pretty extraordinary, too, I know you do. Don’t be chippy, don’t get on your old socialist high horse, just because you’ve got a pash on Mr. Misery-Guts Donny Ross.”
So Kit and Ann drove out one Sunday, with Ray and Donny Ross, for a picnic at Thwaite Park. Kit was engaged to Ray by this time, though Ann didn’t take that too seriously; she’d been engaged several times already, and, anyway, Ann knew that the other thing was still going on with Kit’s married man, Charlie, who was a lawyer. Ann had bumped into Charlie recently, out shopping with his wife and children. She’d been waltzing around the fitting room with him only the night before, while Kit played Edith Piaf on the portable Black Box gramophone he’d bought her, yet when he passed her in the street he pretended not to know her, staring at her blankly. His wife was hanging on to his arm, and Charlie held his gloves in his clasped hands behind his back; as Ann looked after them, he waggled his free fingers at her in a jaunty, naughty secret signal.
On the day of the picnic it was warm for the first time since winter and the clear air was as heady as spirits. Ray put down the roof on his convertible and drove fast. Kit tied on a head scarf, but Ann hadn’t thought to bring one, so her hair whipped in her face, and by the time they turned in between the crumbling stone gateposts—there were no gates; they must have been requisitioned for the war effort—she was bewildered with the speed and the rushing air. The house was a Palladian box, perfectly proportioned, understated to the point of plainness, its blond stone blackened with soot; sooty sheep grazed on a long meadow sloping down in front of it. A few skinny lambs scampered under the ancient oaks, where new leaves were just beginning to spring out, implausibly, from the gray crusty limbs. There were other cars in the drive and in the car park, because the house and the grounds were open to the public. Laughing and talking confidently—at least, Kit was laughing and confident—they walked right past the main entrance, where tickets were on sale; peacocks were squawking and displaying on the stable wall. Nola had instructed them to come around the side of the house, then press the bell beside a door marked “Private,” in white painted letters. Ann half expected a butler. Donny was stiff with disapproval of class privilege.
Blaise Perney—who opened the side door himself, promptly, as if he’d been waiting for them—wasn’t in the least what they’d prepared for. To begin with, he looked younger than Nola: very tall and ugly, diffident and smiling and stooped, with a long bony face and hair like crinkled pale silk. He welcomed them effusively, blushing as if they were doing him a favor, and said that he was so looking forward to getting to know them. Ann thought with relief that Blaise could easily be won over; she always made this assessment, when she first met men, of whether or not she could get around them if she chose to test her power. Charlie, for instance—although he liked her and flirted with her madly—she could never have deflected from his own path in a million years, whereas Ray was a walkover. Blaise said that Nola was packing a picnic in the kitchen. He led them through a succession of shadowy, chilly, gracious rooms with shuttered windows, apologizing for the mess and the state of decay: his dragging foot seemed to be part of his diffidence.
These were private rooms, not open to the public, not arranged to look like scenes from the past but with the past and the present simply jumbled together: a cheap little wireless set balanced on a pile of leather-bound books, a milkman’s calendar among the silver-framed photos on a desk whose rolltop was broken, an ordinary electric fire in a huge marble fireplace dirty with wood ash. Ann found this much more romantic; it set her imagination racing. What she could have done with this place if it were hers! In the cavernous, dark kitchen, where the giant-sized iron range was cold and there were fifty dinner plates in a wooden rack, Nola was boiling eggs on a Baby Belling, looking surprisingly at home. Ann’s envy was only fleeting—it was benevolent, gracious. Whatever lay ahead for her, she thought, was better than any house.
When they took their picnic outside, Blaise said that they should have seen the gardens when his mother was alive. Nola, in a funny, shapeless flowery dress, squinting and smiling into the sun, looked more like a mother than like anyone’s wife; they saw how she would restore things and bring back order. Scrambling up among birch trees in a little wood, they were out of the way of the visitors on the paths below; the bluebells were like pools of water among the trees, reflecting the sky. Ray and Donny raced like schoolboys and wrestled each other to the ground, while Kit kept up her bubbling talk, making it sound to Blaise as if she and Ann were specialists in old fabrics. Hoping for more brocade, she said, they hadn’t started yet on Nola’s dress. Blaise said they must go in search of the brocade later. There were all sorts of old clothes and fabrics and embroideries upstairs in the cedarwood presses, he told them; he’d hardly looked in there himself but would love them to discover something valuable, which he could sell. “You can help yourself to anything you like. I expect it’s all old junk. I’ll show you around properly when the public have gone. Not that I’m objecting to the public, because they are my bread and butter.”
“What happened to your leg, old man?” Ray asked.
Blaise apologized, because he wasn’t a war hero. He’d managed to catch the dreaded polio—wasn’t that childish of him? Nola spread out a tablecloth, in a little hollow among the bluebells, while the young doctors interrogated her sternly about neck stiffness, light intolerance, respiratory muscle weakness. Blaise rolled up his trouser leg and Ray and Donny examined his twisted, skinny calf; Kit turned her face away, because she didn’t like looking at sickness or deformed things. Yet Blaise Perney was hardly deformed at all; he’d made a wonderful recovery. He told them that Nola had saved his life, and she laughed with shy pleasure. She said he was just lucky, that was all.
The surprise was that Blaise turned out to be as much of a socialist as Donny Ross, even if he did own a deer park. He didn’t object to any of the taxes, he said. The only damn problem was finding enough money to pay them, because old houses these days didn’t come with money attached. Thwaite was a bottomless pit when it came to money. He ought to give the place up, sell it as a hotel or something, but he was too sentimental. Anyway, there were an awful lot of big old houses on the market, and it wasn’t a good time in the hotel business. He and Nola called each other “Dear” and passed each other salt, in a twist of greaseproof paper, to go with the eggs. Kit had made little crustless sandwiches with cucumber and foie gras from a tin, and pinched bottles of champagne from her father’s wine cellar. She still lived at home in the suburbs with her widowed daddy, retired from his insurance job, whom she adored—though Ann thought he was a horrible old man. He’d told her once that little tarts ought to be flogged, to teach them a lesson.
They drank his champagne anyway, from eighteenth-century glasses, which they’d brought from the house because Blaise couldn’t find anything else. When the champagne was finished, Kit brought out a bottle of her father’s Armagnac—“I won’t half be in trouble,” she said—and they started in on that. And somehow that afternoon they achieved that miraculous drunkenness you get only once or twice in a lifetime, brilliant and without consequences, not peaking and subsiding but running weightlessly on and on. Afterward, Ann could hardly remember any subject they’d talked about, or what had seemed so clever or so funny. When they wandered on the grounds in the evening, after the public had gone, Nola took off her black shoes and walked carefree in her stockings. And Donny Ross’s pursuit of Ann was as intent and tense as a stalking cat’s: invisible to everyone else, it seemed to her to flash through all the disparate, hazy successive phases of the afternoon like a sparking, dangerous live wire. They lay close together but not touching, in the long grass under a tall ginkgo tree, whose leaves were shaped like exquisite tiny paddles, translucent bright grass-green. The light faded in the sky to a deep turquoise and the peacocks came to roost in the tree above them, clotted lumps of darkness, with their long tails hanging down like bellpulls.
Their drunkenness ought to have ended in some shame or disaster—Ray had drunk as much as the rest of them, and he was driving them home—but it didn’t. They didn’t break any of the lovely glasses etched with vine leaves; no one threw up or said anything unforgivable; no one was killed. They didn’t even feel too bad the next day. Ray delivered the girls decorously back, eventually, to the doorsteps of their respective houses in Fishponds and Stoke Bishop. On the way home, Kit said what a sweetheart Blaise was—and what a fabulous place, imagine landing that! Didn’t Ann just wish she’d got to him first, before Nola Higgins? Then Ann, with her drunken special insight, said that Blaise wasn’t really what he seemed. He wasn’t actually very easy. He’d seen right through them and he didn’t like them very much. He saw how they condescended to Nola, even if Nola didn’t see it. Kit said indignantly that she’d never condescended to anybody in her life.
They had not, after all, gone back inside Thwaite House to look in the cedarwood presses. No one had had any appetite, in the intensity of their present, for the past. When they had parted finally, because the medics were on night duty and had to get back, they all made passionate promises to return. The next time they came, Blaise said, he would show them everything. They couldn’t wait, they told him. Soon. That was in 1953.
When Sally Ross was sixteen, in 1972, her mother, Ann, made her a jacket out of an old length of silk brocade, embroidered with flowers. The white brocade had been around since Sally could remember, folded in a cupboard along with all the other pieces of fabric that might be used sometime, for something or other. Now they decided to dye it purple. This was the same summer that Sally’s father, the doctor, had moved out to live with another woman. Ann had sold all his jazz records and chopped his ties into bits with her dressmaking scissors, then burned them in the garden. Of course, Sally and her sisters and brother were on their mother’s side. Still, they were shocked by something so vengeful and flaunting, which they’d never before imagined as part of her character. Her gestures seemed drawn from a different life than the one they’d had so far, in which things had been mostly funny and full of irony.
Sally and her mother were absorbed together that summer in projects of transformation, changing their clothes or their rooms or themselves. Sally stood over the soup of murky cold-dye in the old washing-up bowl, watching for the blisters of fabric to erupt above the surface, prodding them down with the stained handle of a wooden spoon, feeling hopeful in spite of everything. She wasn’t beautiful like her mother, but Ann made her feel that there was a way around that. Ann always had a plan—and Sally yielded to the gifted, forceful hands that came plucking at her eyebrows or twisting up her hair, whipping the tape measure around her waistline. The jacket was a success: Sally wore it a lot, unbuttoned over T-shirts and jeans. They both dieted, and her mother lost a stone; she’d never looked so lovely. Ann got a babysitter and went out to parties with spare knickers and a toothbrush in her handbag, but came home alone. At the end of the summer, their father moved back in again.
Sally had always known that the white brocade had belonged to a lady who died before her wedding. The man she was meant to marry had owned a stately home with a deer park, and the twist in the story was that she’d been a nurse, had saved his life when he was ill. Ann and Kit Seaton—who was Sally’s godmother—had picnicked with them once in the deer park. Then the nurse had caught diphtheria from one of her patients and was dead within a week. Her fiancé had written to them, returning their designs and saying that he would not need their services after all, “for the saddest of reasons.” They hadn’t known what to do with the fabric, Ann said. They couldn’t just post it to him. They hadn’t even sent a note—they couldn’t think what words to use; they were too young. Ann hadn’t kept his letter or her designs; she regretted now that she’d hardly kept anything when she got married and she and Kit gave up the business. There were only a few woven Gallagher and Seaton labels, tangled in a snarled mass of thread and bias binding and rickrack braid in her workbasket. She and Kit had never even thought to take photographs of the clothes they’d made.
One weekend that summer Sally found herself at the very scene of her mother’s stories, Thwaite Park, which was now used as a teacher-training college. Sally’s boyfriend was an art student, and he worked part time for a company that catered conferences and receptions; she helped out when they needed extra staff. She wore her jacket to Thwaite deliberately, and hung it up on a hook in the kitchen. Her job that day was mostly behind the scenes, washing plates and cups and cutlery in a deep [REDACTED] sink, while the hot-water urn wheezed and gurgled through its cycles. The kitchen was as dark as a cave, its cream-painted walls greenish with age, erupting in mineral crusts.
After the conference lunch, in a lull while the teachers drank coffee outside in the sunshine, Sally wandered upstairs to look around. Although the rooms of the house had been converted into teaching spaces, with bookshelves and blackboards and overhead projectors, you could see that it had been a home once. One of the rooms was papered with Chinese wallpaper, pale blue, patterned with birds and bamboo leaves. In another room, polished wood cupboards were built in from floor to ceiling; these were full of stationery supplies and art materials. Someone from the catering staff had followed Sally upstairs, and she found herself explaining the whole story to him—about her parents separating and the jacket and her mother’s sad association with the house. This wasn’t her boyfriend but another boy who worked with them, better-looking and more dangerous. Sally was trying her power out on him; she shed tears of self-pity, until he put his arms around her and kissed her. And, amid all the complications and adjustments that ensued, she forgot to collect her jacket when they left, though she didn’t confess this to her mother until months later. A jacket hardly mattered, in the scheme of things. 

