Five Arrows
By Heinz Insu Fenkl
Yongsu and I launched the flat-bottomed boat from a muddy part of the river I didn’t recognize. It seemed the bank of the river had moved much closer to the village, though I knew it hadn’t rained much that year. We took our places and, as Yongsu pulled the oars, I scanned the far shore for a good place to land—a landmark that Yongsu could aim for to counter the current.
“Ya, I haven’t done this in a long time,” Yongsu said, flipping some water into the air. “You remember the last time you were out on this river?”
That was five years ago. The water was so clear back then that it seemed only a few palm widths deep, shallow enough for me to reach down and touch the pebbles that rippled in the play of light and the shadow of the boat. Now, when I looked over the side, the water was a foggy green color, and after the first few feet I couldn’t see the bottom. “What happened to the water?” I said. “There’s something green in it.”
“There’s no current since they put up the hydroelectric dam downstream.” Yongsu twitched his head in that direction. “They finished it two years ago. Ever since, the river’s been high all year and full of that algae. Fisheries all over the place now, raising carp, because they like that dirty bottom water.”
“It even sounds different,” I said.
I looked out across the flat expanse of the river-become-a-lake, recalling the last time I had been here—the gentle sound of the current, the clear water more transparent than air, flowing icy cold under the boat, and the pebbles, white and gray and black, slick and wet, so distant and yet so close, as the shadow of the boat slipped above them, rippling the bright-blue reflection of the sky. Even the air was clearer back then, without this invisible mist which seemed almost a mental pollution. How could they give up the old river for this murky green plane on which even the reflections looked stagnant? All the old channels must have been clogged with algae and the sort of scum that collects on a dead pond. You could smell the faint rot as the oars disturbed the surface. The creak and the rhythm made me think of voices—and I could almost hear them, nearly as loud as the gurgling sound of the oars dipping into the water—until Yongsu stopped rowing and we butted against the shore.
“Crossing the River Jordan!” Yongsu sang out, parodying our Christian aunt’s favorite hymn. I must have looked alarmed when he brought me out of my reverie, and I worried that he had read the thoughts behind my expression, but he just broke into laughter. “We arrived!” he said. “Here we are in the other world.”
We dragged the boat up a little ways, and I uncoiled the rope and tied it to a sapling.
“Do you think we’ll be able to find Big Uncle?” I asked.
“The air’s fresh,” Yongsu said. “From what Little Uncle said, we can just track him by the smell.”
We had come up from Bupyeong on a lark. Yongsu had got into some trouble and needed to avoid his dropout friends. I’d recently moved back to [REDACTED] after two years away in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], where my father’s duty stations had taken him. I’d begun skipping school, and since I hadn’t missed any classes yet that week, I had decided to play hooky for a couple of days. Neither of us had been out in the country in a long time, so we had come to pay a visit to Little Uncle and Big Uncle, who liked us and wouldn’t mind keeping a secret. But when we’d arrived in Sambong-ni, the previous night, we’d learned that the gangrene in Big Uncle’s old foot injury had come back. This time the stench was so bad that the family had sent him across the river to the old cave. Little Uncle told us that we had to go and see him, because everyone was worried that Big Uncle might die this time.
Yongsu started up the slope, and I followed, scanning back and forth through the underbrush. It didn’t take long for us to run into a small trail that followed the waterline, and we took that toward the west, into shadowy woods lanced by sunlight. Yongsu seemed oblivious of anything but the trail, but I relaxed my eyes the way Big Uncle had taught me when I was little, and it wasn’t long before I spotted something odd.
“Look,” I said to Yongsu. There were rags draped over the lower branches of a tree to dry in the sun, and they were still discolored—yellow and red—with what must have been the pus and blood oozing from Big Uncle’s sores.
“Yeah, he lives around here,” Yongsu said. “He can’t get far with that crippled foot, and he’s been sick for a while. Maybe he’s looking for food or some medicinal herbs.”
I walked over to the rags and hesitated. “They’re dry. Should I gather them up?”
“Quiet!” Yongsu said. “I hear footsteps. It’s someone limping.”
Then I heard it. Someone crawling along the path, barely moving. It was still far away, but I could make it out—the sound of an injured man. “He must have fallen,” I said. “It sounds like he’s hurt.”
Yongsu started up the trail, but I ran ahead of him, shouting “Big Uncle! Big Uncle!” until I thought I heard him reply.
“_Ya! _” Yongsu called after me. “Careful!” I heard his footfalls catching up to me as I ran along the trail through patches of light and shadow, feeling the texture of the ground change under me as I trod on pine needles, then pebbles, then dry earth.
In a few moments, Yongsu was at my side, tugging at my shirt to make me stop, but I pulled away and continued to run in the direction of the sound. We came around a sharp bend in the trail and squinted into the sun that shone through a gap in the trees. A huge silhouette stood before us, massive and black to our sun-blind eyes.
“Stop!” the shape said.
We couldn’t stop. We tried to go back the way we had come, but then we heard a loud thump, and a quivering arrow shaft seemed to sprout out of a tree to block our way. The bright feathers trembled in the sunlight, and we heard a wild beating that might have been the wings of an escaping bird or the pounding of our hearts.
As Yongsu and I froze and caught our breath, the dark silhouette shifted, looking momentarily like a giant black crane before bending into a more humble shape to approach us, grumbling under his breath. “It’s Yongsu,” he said, finally. “What reason do you have to be up here? And who’s that?”
“Hello, Big Uncle,” Yongsu said. “I’ve come with Insu.”
“Insu? Ya, you’ve grown like a bean sprout. All that good food in [REDACTED].”
“Hello, Big Uncle,” I said.
“It’s been a long time, ungh? Pull that arrow out and follow me. Have you brought me anything to eat?”
“No, sir,” Yongsu said as I struggled to pull the arrow out.
“Aigo, you unmannered fools.”
Big Uncle hobbled back up the trail, and Yongsu followed, leaving me with the arrow. The tip had punctured the bark of the tree and buried itself so far in the trunk that I had to grasp the arrow shaft with both hands—as close to the tip as possible for fear of breaking it—and move it gingerly back and forth until it dislodged. By the time I had it out, intact, Yongsu and Big Uncle were out of sight, and I had to run as quickly as I could to find them.
“We used to call this place Skullhead Cave,” Big Uncle said, “because it looks like the top of a skull, and the two openings are like half-buried eye sockets. But now no one even knows what it’s called anymore. And why do you suppose I live in this cave?” He stared at us for a moment. “Don’t you think I’d live in a house if I could?”
“Yes, Big Uncle.”
“When I was young, we used to put the old people out in caves like this to die after they started to go senile. After they shit and pissed in their clothes and couldn’t remember the names of their children, the family would bring them into the mountains and seal them up in a cave with just a little opening for food. And every day they’d come and leave some food, until it stopped disappearing. When they knew the old person was dead, they’d wait a few more days, just to be sure, and then they’d open up the cave and take the body out for a good funeral and a good burial. Everyone would mourn, crying and sobbing as if the old person had died in some tragic way, but secretly they’d all be relieved.

“What do you think of me saving them the trouble, ungh? They won’t even have to roll the rock back for me, since I’m living in my own cave shack. But maybe the animals will get in and eat my shrivelled corpse before they get me. Wouldn’t that be a shame?”
We didn’t know what to say to Big Uncle. We had never heard him so bitter before, so crude and angry.
“Now tell me why you came up here, ungh? You didn’t come up all by yourselves just to visit me, now, did you?”
“No,” I said. “Well, we came up for another reason.”
“Did Little Uncle send you to bring me back with you? Did you bring a jige?”
“No, Big Uncle.” Because I felt so uncomfortable, I took the carton of cigarettes out of my jacket. I had brought them to give to him before we left, but I presented them to him now, holding them politely with both hands. “Here, Big Uncle. Please enjoy these.”
“Ya,” he said. “I haven’t had one of these Camel cigarettes in years. Thanks.” He fumbled around, looking for matches, and then, giving up, simply pulled a thin stick out of the fire pit and blew on it until its tip glowed and burst into a tiny flame. He held the stick in his mouth as if it were a pipe stem while he unwrapped the carton, putting the cellophane under a U.S. Army cot he must have stolen from one of the nearby bases; then he ripped open a pack of the Camels, tapping a couple expertly out onto his palm. “You two smoke?”
We shook our heads no, though we both did.
“Ya, it feels like I’ll live awhile now,” Big Uncle said, slipping the extra cigarette back into the pack and then putting the pack into his vest pocket almost unconsciously. He lit the cigarette and took a deep first drag, savoring the smoke in his lungs before blowing it in a long plume at his gangrenous foot. “Helps cover the smell, ungh?”
We didn’t know what to say, because any answer would have been wrong. If we said yes, we’d be admitting that we had smelled his rotting flesh before the cigarette smoke, and if we said no we’d be saying that the smell of smoke didn’t cover the odor of his foot, which he had wrapped in a makeshift bandage of dry moss, with only a few strands of straw to bind it together.
“I expected you to come up here with an A-frame jige to carry me back down to the river. Now, that would have been an odd twist on the story, ungh?” He smiled, enjoying himself.
“What story, sir?” I said.
“Listen,” Big Uncle said. “You two go out into the woods and fetch me five of my arrows, and I’ll tell you the story. It’s going to take you a while, so I’ll have something good to eat waiting for you when you get back. Understood?”
“Yes, Big Uncle,” we said.
“What is it?” he said, reading our expressions. “Little Uncle told you not to fetch arrows for me?”
We nodded dumbly.
“Who do you listen to? Your Big Uncle or your Little Uncle? Who’s older? Does it look like I’ve lost my mind and become a child again?”
“No, Big Uncle.”
“Then go fetch the arrows, and bring up some water while you’re at it. Here’s the jug. And when you get back I’ll have some delicious mountain chicken for you.” He tossed a clay jar, wrapped in straw, to Yongsu, and shooed us off. We walked a little way down the trail before he called out, “Ya!Don’t look together. Go in different directions and look up at the lower branches of the trees. That’s where you’ll find the arrows. They should be easy to spot. I dyed the feathers red, yellow, and blue like the one I shot at you.”
“Yes, Big Uncle!” we called back.
When we were out of earshot, Yongsu smacked me on the shoulder and said, “Now what are we going to do, ungh?”
“We have to find the arrows. What else can we do?”
“Ah, fuck it! We shouldn’t have let him talk to us like that. I’m not staying out here in the woods to fetch some damned arrows for the old man.” He shoved the water jug into my belly and stalked off down the trail to the river.
“You’re going?” I said.
“That’s right.”
“How will I get across the river if you take the boat?”
“I’ll come back in the morning. You’re going to be out here all night looking for arrows in the trees, stupid.”
I stopped there and watched Yongsu disappear as the trail descended sharply and veered to the right. In a few moments, I could no longer hear the heavy crunch of his footfalls, and the woods grew so quiet I thought I could make out the sound of blood rushing in my head.
I searched for Big Uncle’s arrows until the light waned and I could no longer discern the colors in the shadows. I was terribly frustrated at first, impatient and even angry as I waded through patches of high grass, cutting my flesh, or picked my way through tangles of shrubbery because I thought I had glimpsed a yellow feather on the other side. At one point, the heat of the day seeping into my sweaty body, I rested under a tree, half dozing in its cool shade and the breeze that came across the flat green river. In a momentary lapse into real sleep, I had the briefest of dreams: I was sitting with my back against a tree, but it was nighttime, and it was raining so hard that not even the branches could protect me; water sluiced down on me each time the wind shifted, and I tried to huddle into myself, chilled like the blade of a knife that could cut me to the bone. I was going to die, and the fear and the cold woke me up into the slightly thick and groggy heat of late afternoon. It must have been the heat, I thought. I dreamed of the opposite thing even though in my dream I’d been doing the same thing—looking for Big Uncle’s arrows. I resumed my search and, while the light held, I happened on a place where Big Uncle’s aim must have been especially bad. I found four arrows.
“My, you’ve gotten yourself quite dirty,” Big Uncle said when I returned to his camp with the arrows and the water jug. He had a small fire going, and he had skewered a couple of small birds, which were slowly browning above the flames. I was glad I had been upwind all day, because the moment I smelled the cooking my stomach clenched with hunger and my mouth filled with saliva.
Big Uncle took the arrows with a nod. He didn’t bother asking about Yongsu, so I didn’t mention him, either.
“I did my best,” I said. “I’m sorry I only found four arrows.”
“An inauspicious number,” Big Uncle said. “Sa. The death number. The snake number. You know, ungh?”
I nodded. “It was getting dark under the trees.”
“Well, since you plucked that other arrow this morning, let’s say you found five. Now, five is an interesting number. O. It sounds like the sign of the horse, or a mistake, or a word for anguish. O-da. You have come. O-do. You have awakened.” He ran each arrow through his fingers, checking to see if their shafts had split, if their feathers had come undone. “So what do you think, Insu-ya?”
“I don’t know,” I said. I had no idea what he meant by the numbers and their sounds in 536f757468204b6f726561n. All I knew was that 536f757468204b6f726561ns were as superstitious about the number four as 556e6974656420537461746573ns were about thirteen. Buildings didn’t have a fourth floor, and most 536f757468204b6f726561n locker rooms had sequences that jumped from three to five, thirteen to fifteen, and thirty-nine to fifty.
“Let’s eat. I’m as hungry as you are. Here.” Big Uncle unfolded a small square of paper full of sea salt and poured some onto my palm. “No spice, so this will have to do.”
I sat at the edge of the fire and took the spitted bird from Big Uncle. I realized that he had cooked only two birds, and I looked from mine to his.
“What’s the matter? I gave you the small one?”
“No, sir. I was just wondering—”
“If both of you had come back? Well, then, I suppose you’d be fighting over the one, ungh?” He laughed and tore a piece of meat from the breast of his to dab in the salt.
I ate, too, and despite my queasiness at the clump of black crow feathers I saw in the underbrush, the meat tasted wonderful, its gamy tang cut by the salt. My face warmed by the fire, and my stomach rumbling even as I ate, I tore my bird to shreds and sucked at the bones until they were dry. It was dark when we were done, and we passed the jug of water back and forth to wash down the last scraps of crow meat.
“The nights are long if you’re the thoughtful sort,” Big Uncle said. “So tell me what you’re thinking about.”
“I was wondering about your foot,” I said.
“The smell bother you?”
“No, sir. I can’t smell it now. I found your wrappings this morning.”

“Well, it’s a story. Like some folktale. But everyone’s life is like a story, isn’t it? From a long, long time ago.”
I expected Big Uncle to smoke while he talked, but he just closed his eyes, as if to let the firelight warm his eyelids. He sat with his legs crossed, his bad foot on top, and he told the story into the fire.
“I was coming home after some celebration—the hundred-day party for Old Pak’s grandson. It was past sunset, and they told me to stay the night there in that village, but I stubbornly decided to come home over the mountain. There were still wild animals in the woods back then and even rumors of tigers, though no one had seen one since the Japanese came. That’s why people said not to go—because of the tigers—but they were actually afraid of ghosts and goblins and the usual lies.
“It was easy to walk. The moon was out. It wasn’t full, but there was enough light to see the trail where it was good. I was feeling fine, because I’d had a good time at the celebration. I wasn’t thinking of ghosts at all when I first saw the light. It was a little light in the distance. That’s what it looked like—a lamp in the woods or a candle in the window of someone’s house, something small and bright only because it was so dark.
“I thought someone was out there, so I called out to him. ‘Yeoboseyo! Who’s out there? Is anyone out there?’ No answer. Then I thought maybe it was someone who had got injured, so I started into the woods to find him.
“I shouldn’t have left the trail. That was a mistake. Before I knew it, I was in the middle of the woods, and the light, which had been right in front of me, suddenly blinked out, and I was in the pitch-black night. I couldn’t see anything. I was reaching out around myself so the tree branches wouldn’t scratch out my eyes.
“Then the light blinked on again somewhere to my right. Then off again, and it reappeared somewhere to my left. And that’s when I knew it was a goblin light or a ghost. I started thinking of all those terrible stories about the woodcutters who see the lights at night and then get enticed by fox demons and have their life energy sucked out. I started running back toward the trail, or where I thought it should be, but the light kept appearing in front of me, and then I would change directions and run headlong into a tree or fall into a hole.
“I must have run around like that for hours. I was a mess. All scratched up, my ankle twisted, my clothes torn like floor rags. Bruises all over my forearms and shins. But I kept running, because I could feel it. It was some female spirit, and it was determined to get me. I had heard stories about the ghosts of dead virgins and how they hunted unwary men at night. That’s what I was afraid of.
“I ran and ran, until finally I just didn’t have the strength anymore, and I collapsed against a tree. The light came at me then. It grew brighter and brighter until it was a brilliant blue, and then a blinding white, and I lost consciousness.
“When I woke up, it was past dawn. The sun was above the horizon, and a streak of light was shining on my face. I sat there for the longest time, because I thought the ghost had tied me up to that tree, but then, when I finally had the strength and the courage to look around, I saw that I was sitting against the tree as if I were tied to it, but there were only a few dried-up strands of grass around me. Not even enough to weave into a bad straw rope.
“And there were two little scars on my foot. It didn’t look much worse than a couple of mosquito bites or maybe a couple of pimples, but that’s what festered later and spread up and down my foot. Even with the best Chinese medicine, it never really healed. Everyone says it was a snakebite, but that’s not true.
“It wasn’t until years later that I remembered what happened to me after I was blinded by that light. And it was in a dream. I remembered it in a dream. A beautiful woman came out of that light. She was dressed in a white costume in the Chinese style. The fabric was like the finest silk, so white it was like silver. She had long black hair and very big eyes—round eyes, almost Western. She told me to come with her, and I understood her though she didn’t seem to speak. I went into that light, and then I found myself on a high Chinese-style bed with no bed mat under me. The woman’s servants were standing around me, looking down at me. There were shiny silver ornaments and decorations everywhere. Beautiful things that looked like jewelry and weapons and eating utensils. The lamp they shined down on me was brighter than the sun. White light was floating everywhere like flour dust, and the beautiful woman climbed up on the bed, on top of me, and, right in front of her servants, she took off her clothes and pushed herself down onto me. I thought my penis would burst, but she was slightly cold, not like a 536f757468204b6f726561n woman. It was almost impossible to feel anything with all those servants watching me, but somehow I managed to squirt my seed into her, and then everything grew dark again.
“Now, why do you suppose this was? Why would I remember this part of the night years and years later? That woman was like a Heavenly Maiden, but I know she was the ghost of a virgin who had died a very long time ago. Probably when the Chinese or the Mongols were in our country. She must have been a princess, with all that jewelry and those servants. She must have been waiting for centuries for some man to come along and release her into the next world with the power of his yang.
“Sometimes, when I get a little drunk, I can remember even more about how beautiful everything was, but then, when I’m sober again, I forget. But it was beautiful. She was the most beautiful woman I’ve ever seen, and coupling with her was wonderful. I think I can remember, sometimes, that we rutted like animals without all those servants around.
“And that’s why I don’t ever regret having this wound on my foot. It was the price I had to pay for my enjoyment, and I will have to keep paying it until I go into the next world. But when I coupled with that ghost woman my penis was like a gidung, and my seed gushed like a waterfall.
“Now, Little Uncle didn’t tell you that part of the story, did he?”
“No, Big Uncle.”
“Throw some more wood onto the fire and light me a twig for a cigarette.”
I added the wood and handed him a long splinter, burning at the end like a match, and he lit one of the Camels I had given him. He seemed ready to withdraw; I could see him sitting there, gazing into the fire and thinking his thoughts as if I were not even there, breathing deeply through his nose, exhaling long plumes of smoke, black eyes glinting in the red-and-yellow firelight. Had I not been there, perhaps he would have spoken to himself or sat in some kind of trance, talking with his spirits and his dreams. Had I not been there, he might have sung himself to sleep with the songs from his childhood, the ones his mother and his aunts sang for him on warm summer nights. Had I not been there, he might have wept with sadness or shouted out his anger at the family that had driven him across the river to live like a Taoist hermit, and in the momentary quiet of his cigarette smoking I wished I weren’t there in body but looking down on Big Uncle instead, watching over him from above, the way his tutelary spirit might from the other world.
“Say what’s on your mind now,” Big Uncle said. “At times like this, you should let the thoughts leap off your tongue. You don’t want to be regretful.”
“I was thinking about your bow, Big Uncle.”
“What about my bow?”
“Where did you get it? Where did you learn how to shoot it?”
“Our ancestors were fierce archers,” Big Uncle said. “I don’t know where we learned it. From the Mongols, probably. In the old days, there were men in the Lee clan who galloped on horseback and shot arrows so straight they could hit the hole in a dangling coin.”
“It reminds me of a book I read about an outlaw named Robin Hood,” I said. “He lived in a secret camp in the woods, and his bow was as tall as a man.”
“How did he get a bow that big?” Big Uncle asked. “It must be a fantasy.”
“It was a wooden bow, Big Uncle. They called them longbows, and they could shoot arrows that could pierce armor.”
“And how did they use them on horseback?”
“They didn’t ride.”


“Ah.” He moved the half-smoked Camel to the other side of his mouth.
“Robin Hood robbed the rich people and gave the money to the peasants. When he knew he was about to die, he shot an arrow out of his window and told his most loyal follower to bury him where it fell.”
“Now, that’s a good story,” Big Uncle said after a moment. “This Ro Bing Ho sounds like a good man. Did he come from a family of warriors or farmers?”
“I don’t know,” I said. “His father was an official in some district, I think, but he was wrongly deposed by an evil adviser to the king. When his father died, Robin Hood had to hide in the forest with a band of outlaws.”
“Like our Hong Gil-dong, ungh?”
“Yes, sir.”
Big Uncle tossed another piece of wood onto the fire and yawned. He put out the Camel by rolling its shaft against a piece of wood so that only the ash and the burning tip fell off, and then he wet a thumb and forefinger with his saliva and doused the remaining fibres of tobacco before placing the butt behind his right ear. Beyond the flickering boundary of light, the night sounds suddenly grew louder, until Big Uncle cleared his throat and spat his phlegm into the flames, where it made a sizzling noise. “Ro Bing Ho,” he said again—I didn’t bother to correct him. “Good.”
“What’s good, Big Uncle?”
“Better than some charlatan doctor of wind and water,” he said. “Any fool can take a fancy compass and mumble phrases from the Book of Changes. But that Ro Bing Ho had the right idea.” He rose stiffly to his feet, then picked up his bow and one of his precious arrows. I knew what he was about to do, and the thought thrilled me for some reason, though I immediately sensed its terrible consequence.
Big Uncle stretched and limbered up his neck, and then he drew the bow, bending the ox horn nearly back on itself against the nocked arrow. He looked directly up into the night, and I followed his gaze to see a circle of blackness ringed by the illuminated bottoms of the tree branches, leaves quietly rustling in the wind and the force of heat from the campfire. How odd, I thought, as I looked up at a domed wall of foliage with a hole in the center. This was what it was like to bend back your neck and stare up at the ceiling of a basilica to see the holy murals of Christ and God and the angels, but out here in the forest that center was lost in a blackness that was not even punctuated by a star, because the light of the campfire had made us night-blind. Now Big Uncle turned four times, once in each direction, and though I thought it impossible to know the cardinal directions at night without the stars as a guide, I sensed that Big Uncle knew the points of the compass exactly.
“Insu-ya,” he said.
“Yes, Big Uncle.”
“Bury me where this arrow falls.” And he let the arrow fly with a loud whoosh of air torn by string and wood, and the arrow blurred high up into the blackness. If Big Uncle had told me then that he had hit the eye of the moon, I would have believed him. The arrow was gone. He lowered the bow to look at me, his eyes flashing with cold flame brighter than the fire.
“Swear to me,” he said. “When I’m dead, you’ll find the arrow, and you’ll have them bury me where it lands.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Do you swear?”
“Yes, Big Uncle, I swear.” I was suddenly afraid, but then he gave me a wide smile and sat down again in a single motion, tired and old.
I was terribly stiff myself in the morning, waking just before dawn. Big Uncle had kept the fire burning low to keep us warm; he had dug himself a small hip hole and curled around the periphery of the stones, letting me use his green U.S. Army blanket on the cot. Even so, I was cold, with an ache that didn’t go away until I had struggled to my feet and stretched a few times to get my blood moving. All night long, I had awakened at intervals when the wind shifted and carried the stench of Big Uncle’s foot in my direction. Even the strong smell of the smoky wood, which Big Uncle must have picked just for my sake, couldn’t mask the odor of decay, and in the morning dampness it bore a subtle touch of sewage mixed with the rot.
As I tightened my abdominal muscles and pressed my palms together to get my blood flowing, I noticed a small sooty teapot quietly steaming over the fire.
“Let’s have some cha before you go,” Big Uncle said without looking at me. “I would offer you coffee, which is what Yankees do, I suppose, but I’m fresh out.”
“Did you sleep well, Big Uncle?”
“Yes, I slept. I’m half asleep all the time, so the night doesn’t make much difference. Any dreams?”
“I don’t remember.”
“You should always remember your dreams, Insu-ya. Dreams are your real life. It’s a shame if you don’t remember it.” Big Uncle turned to face me, wide awake. His face had none of the puffiness of someone who had been asleep; it was drawn tight, the wrinkles fine and shallow until he smiled. He lifted the teapot off the arched stick that kept it well above the fire, and he poured me an old C-ration can full of Japanese green tea swimming with leaf scraps. “The Japs are awful, but they make a fine tea, ungh?”
It was bitter and soothing, and the steam warmed my face. I sipped a little at a time, holding the can between my palms when it had cooled enough not to burn me. “Why do you say dreams are our real life?”
Big Uncle made a sweeping gesture around us. “This is all a dream,” he said. “When you die and move on, you forget it just like you forget dreams. And yet this is where you should have learned all your karmic lessons. What a shame to forget.”
“I don’t know much about those Taoist things,” I said.
“We all know.” Big Uncle lit a cigarette and sucked on it with the same motion he used to sip his can of tea. “Now go, because you’re going to be hungry, and I have nothing to feed you. When you come back to see me again, bring me some coffee and something good to eat.”
“Yes, Big Uncle.”
“Yongsu won’t be there with the boat. You’re going to have to swim across. Can you do that?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Good. Now go.” Big Uncle motioned as if to dust me away, and I walked slowly down the trail, trying to remember what he had told me.
I leapt into the warm water just behind a little raft I had made for my clothes, and, still submerged, slowly rising from the depths of my plunge, I opened my eyes and found myself suspended in the very center of a frightening sphere of green nothingness. Below me the greenness grew darker and darker, by imperceptible degrees, into a murky blackness, and above me it grew suddenly lighter into the rippling clarity of the surface. But all around, receding into a darkness that was never quite black, an indeterminate green fog; in every direction, the unknown; things lurking just beyond the threshold of vision, where sense became imagination. There was nothing in that river that could harm me, but that instant of perception so terrified me that I would never again swim in open water without believing that something waited, just beyond the range of my vision, to drag me down until the light above me turned as dark as the green-black nothingness below.
My nose was beginning to fill, and the pressure in my head told me that I should kick up. For some reason, I felt I had been there before—right there—or would be again. Suddenly I wanted to look around to see if I could see myself looking at me, but the feeling that gave me was so strange that I shook my head, releasing bubbles that showed me which way was up. I slowly raised my sluggish arms, moving them up against the unexpectedly fierce resistance of the water, and then arced them back down again as I gave a violent scissor kick. Green light. Green shadow. Intermediate greens in infinite gradations, subtle and distinct, as numerous as all the names of God. Upward, at the surface, a dark, irregular silhouette with a sharp tail protruding, like the tail of an angular manta ray—it was my raft of clothes, and as I raced my own rising bubbles toward it I thought I glimpsed, just for a second, out of the corner of my eye, a giant green carp beneath me, flicking its broad tail in the very periphery of my vision.

