Peacetime
By Luke Mogelson
Iwas living in the armory on Lexington Avenue. First Sergeant Diaz had given me the keys. I slept on a cot in the medical-supply closet. “Two weeks, max,” I’d told Diaz. But as the months went by I kept postponing a reunion with my wife. I was comfortable where I was. The armory took up an entire city block. There were secret passageways, subterranean firing ranges, a gym with an elliptical. At night, if drunk, I connected to a bag of saline. I always woke up hydrated. I never had a hangover.
It was peacetime, more or less. It was for us, the New York National Guard, at least. Between drills, I worked as a paramedic for a hospital in [REDACTED]. My partner on the ambulance, Karen, had applied to the police academy. She wanted to be a detective. This, for me, was troublesome: as a rule, from every residence we visited I took stuff. Not valuable stuff. Small stuff. A spoon, say, or a refrigerator magnet. I’d never been caught. Still, ever since she sat for the civil-service exam Karen had been acting leery. Once, while checking for prescriptions in a diabetic man’s bathroom, I came across a plastic hand mirror, pink with black polka dots. I was about to shove it down my pants when I glimpsed Karen in its glass. (I brought it to my face, scrutinizing nose hairs.)
Often, when I got back to midtown, Diaz would still be there. Most nights, I’d find him in his office, updating his conspiracy blog. “Take a look at this, Papadopoulos,” he’d say, turning his laptop around to show me a 3-D engineering schematic of Two World Trade Center, mid-collapse, with complex mathematical equations and swooping arrows indicating various structural details. “Huh,” I’d say. Then we’d head to a bar on Third Avenue. Diaz, in his uniform, with his limp, almost always met a woman. The limp was gold. As the woman watched Diaz hobble back to us with drinks, sloshing gin and tonic on the floor, I’d say, “Fucking Iraq.” She’d seldom ask me to elaborate. If she did, I wouldn’t tell her how, as a squad leader, Diaz contracted a bacterial infection while masturbating in a Port-a-John; how the infection spread up his urethra, into his testicles; how that made him lurch, causing a herniated disk, which resulted in sciatica.
Instead, I’d say, “We lost a lot of good men over there.” Which happened to be true.
If it had been up to Diaz, he’d have let me move my flat screen and futon into the supply closet. The problem was the new C.O. After shepherding the unit through 9/11, 49726171, and [REDACTED], our old C.O., Captain Harris, had recently been promoted to brigade staff, in Syracuse. His replacement, Captain Finkbiner, was a former marine determined to show us guardsmen how a real infantry company did things. He had the kind of face that a shaved head did not flatter; the effect was less soldier, more chemo. Shortly after he assumed command, Finkbiner summoned me to his office, and I had the momentary notion—seeing him there in Captain Harris’s chair, behind Captain Harris’s desk, wearing Captain Harris’s rank—that he was a terminal case whose Make-A-Wish had been to be Captain Harris.
“Papadopoulos,” he said. “What is that?”
“My name,” I said.
“Cute,” Finkbiner said. “So now I know who the joker is. The jackass. The clown.”
There were no pictures of Mrs. Finkbiner on the desk, no baby Finkbiners. The sole decoration was a large mammalian jawbone, like a boomerang with teeth. I barely glanced at it. With a weary sigh, as if under pressure to share a story he’d rather have kept private, Finkbiner said, “All right, Jesus, O.K.,” and proceeded to explain that on his last tour in Helmand Province he’d been leading a patrol when a camel walked out from the trees. Twisting its neck, the animal regarded the marines. Then it turned and sauntered toward them. It was about halfway to Finkbiner, about thirty metres out, when, boom, no more camel.
“Understand, Clown?”
I smiled politely. In fact, I hadn’t really been listening. My own thoughts wanted attending. Just what was the age limit for those wishes, anyway? Were there people out there, afflicted people, who’d missed the cutoff by a week? A day?
It was something someone should look into.
There was an old Polish lady, Mrs. Olenski, who called 911 every Wednesday. She usually called during Tour Two, my and Karen’s shift. I looked forward to Wednesdays: first, because Mrs. Olenski always offered me oatmeal-raisin cookies; second, because she was extremely rude to Karen. The ritual started when her husband died. They’d been married for more than fifty years, no children. After Mr. Olenski went, the empty, silent apartment began to harrow Mrs. Olenski. Only the television helped. She left it on 24/7, full volume; it made no difference what channel or program. It made no difference because Mrs. Olenski hated television. The advertisements, the laughter—ridiculous. Every time we showed up, she switched it off, massaged her temples with her knotty finger bones, and muttered, “Thank God.” Then, as soon as we were out the door, on it went again.

Her standard complaint was chest pain. I’d sit her on the gray suède couch, pull up the ottoman, and go through the motions: take her pulse and blood pressure, conduct a thorough medical history, provide oxygen. Meanwhile, Karen would stand off to the side, refusing to assist. Her feeling was that Mrs. Olenski abused the system and exploited city resources, and that I, by humoring her and eating her cookies, was complicit. Alive to Karen’s judgment, Mrs. Olenski directed all her old-lady kindness to me, sometimes ignoring Karen altogether, at other times behaving toward her with overt hostility. Once, while Velcroing the B.P. cuff around her arm (on that arm, you had to use the pediatric cuff), I noticed her finger writing something on the couch cushion, smoothing down the nap. For a moment, I thought that she’d suffered a stroke and wanted to convey the fact to me. I checked her face for droop. When I looked back at the message, it read “whor.”
Later, in the bus, Karen said, “You think you’re being a good person, but you’re not. What you’re being is afraid. You’re afraid that’s you.”
She was in the driver’s seat, one hand draped on the wheel, the other gloved by a bag of jalapeño Combos. Someday she was going to make a fine detective.
“You should lay off the Combos,” I said.
“Don’t cut my leathers,” Karen said.
Don’t cut my leathers. Years before, we’d responded to a motor-vehicle accident on the B.Q.E. Law enforcement had cordoned off a lane. A snaking peel of tread led to a motorcycle wedged beneath the guardrail. A man writhed in a slick of blood. Somehow he’d managed to slide, rather than tumble, over the asphalt. Both buttocks were gone. While Karen prepped the stretcher and applied the collar, I got out my trauma shears. Until then, the guy had been only semiconscious, murmuring, in a daze, “My ass, man, my fucking ass.” Soon as I squeezed the scissors, though, he started, looked back at me, and said it.
“Don’t cut my leathers.”
After that, all the paramedics on Tour Two, and most of the nurses in the [REDACTED], adopted the phrase. Its meaning was elastic. I often invoked it when the supervisor made us pull a double. Other instances included the time when we had to extricate an unresponsive three-hundred-pounder from his bathtub in a fifth-floor studio, then found the elevator broken; when a girl who’d stuck a Beretta in her mouth and pulled the trigger, her tongue stud having deflected the bullet straight down through the bottom of her chin, asked us were we angels; and when Karen, after a gas explosion in a textile factory, sneaked up behind me, whispered in my ear, “I’m keeping an eye on you,” and actually had an eye on me, on my shoulder, the nerve dangling like spaghetti. Some occasions, I didn’t say it but I thought it. Take, for instance, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund requesting documentation of my alleged pulmonary disease, my wife suggesting I have a think about our marriage, or Finkbiner inviting me, with great ceremony, to touch his lucky camel bone. Take me recalling all the homes I’d visited, the misery inside them, the knickknacks I’d lifted.
Mostly knickknacks. Every now and then I overreached. Once, at the Ridgedale Projects, we found a teen-age boy in a hoodie standing outside a red brick tower, wearing headphones and blowing bubblegum bubbles.
“Did you call 911?” Karen asked.
The boy shook his head. We’d already reached the elevator when he said, “Mom did.”
On the way up, Karen said, “Is it your dad?”
“Sort of,” the boy said.
A grossly overweight woman wearing a terry-cloth bathrobe over a diaphanous nightgown over a brownish sweatsuit greeted us in the hall. “Done it again,” she said. We followed her into a cluttered apartment, where she began leisurely picking up toys off the floor, clucking with annoyance every time she bent over. Children watched an action film. None turned to look at us.
The man was in the bedroom, supine on the covers. He was unusually small—his underwear, which was all he had on, looked baggy, diaperish—unconscious, and experiencing severe respiratory depression. Every ten seconds or so, he’d snort a gnarly breath through his nose, a terrific snore. His lips were blue, his skin devoid of oxygenated flush. The nightstand was covered with pill bottles: mostly painkillers, a lot of opioids.
“For my aches,” the woman explained. “But did he think about that, either?”
Karen went around to the far side of the bed with the O2and the oropharyngeal airway. When she planted her knee on the mattress to lean over the man, the mattress gave beneath her, billowing out in liquid undulations, lifting him on its squishy swell. Karen pitched forward and the water continued to glug from one side of the bed to the other, raising and dropping her, the man. Ordinarily, this would have offered a supreme occasion to ridicule Karen; I was distracted, however. Among the pill bottles on the nightstand was a large fountain cup, no top, brown soda beads clinging to its waxed interior. Held down by the fountain cup was a handwritten note.
“Papadopoulos,” Karen said.
She’d managed to kind of calm the bed and was bobbing gently beside the man. I opened the drug box, prepared a bolus of naloxone, inserted the needle, and drove home the plunger. The action was almost instantaneous. While we were still trying to bounce him onto the backboard, the manbegan to gag on the airway and slap at the oxygen mask strapped to his face. By the time we’d transferred him to the stretcher, he was back in the world and not the least pleased.
“Why’d you do that?” he asked us.
“Oh, fuck you, Marty, you fucking shithead,” the woman said, quietly, and left the room.
I rewarded the man with another hit of naloxone, which made him even more alive, even less happy. Karen was busy with the gear, and I thought for sure that the coast was clear. It wasn’t. As soon as I put the note in my pocket, I saw the boy. He stood in the doorway, watching me with a basically impassive expression. He chewed his gum. He blew a splendid bubble.
“Let’s move,” Karen said, and the boy mutely watched us wheel his sort-of dad away.
The note was all run-of-the-mill, derivative material. A lot of I love you so much, a lot of I’m so sorry. Still, after that day I carried it with me everywhere.
If I drank too much, I’d sometimes knock over the [REDACTED] stand during the night, inverting my gravitational relationship to the bag of saline. In the morning I’d find it jiggling on the floor, still hooked to my arm, full of my fluid. I’d raise the bag above my head and squeeze it in my fist until the whole pink cocktail drained back down the tubing, into me, where it belonged. I’d yank the catheter from my vein, sit up on my cot, stumble past the floor-to-ceiling shelves stocked with medical miscellany, enter the combination on the drug cabinet, and open her up. Typically, what I required was a vasodilator/muscle-relaxer medley: the former to stimulate cranial blood flow, the latter to break the grip of the savage claws sunk into my face, determined to unmask my skull.
Often, I’d cough. If so, I’d scour the shelves for something to spit into—a bandage or some gauze or a sterile eye pad would do. I’d inspect the sample, a squashed bug on the white cotton, with satisfaction. I’d seal it in a biohazard bag. I’d write the date.
One morning, the supply-closet door opened and Captain Finkbiner walked in. I gulped the pills in my palm, then turned to face him. He glared at me, Finkbiner, in his manner. He appeared to subscribe to the theory that if you wanted to unnerve a man you didn’t look him in the eye, you did the opposite: avoid the eye by looking at his earlobe.
“Papaluffagus,” he said.
I tried to say something respectful. One of the pills, however, had caught in my throat.
“No jokes, Clown?” Finkbiner asked.
“I was just doing inventory,” I said.
“He was just doing inventory,” Finkbiner said, addressing my earlobe as if it were a neutral party, sympathetic to his contempt for me.
Right then, First Sergeant Diaz joined us. He looked at me, looked at Finkbiner, looked back at me. He said, “Did you finish that inventory?”
It was Saturday, a drill weekend. Soldiers were trickling in from [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], the [REDACTED]. I folded up my cot and gathered the medical platoon in a dark corner of the armory, out of view of the grunts. Nobody wanted to be there. Specialist Chen had brought a Box O’ Joe from Dunkin’ Donuts. We filled small paper cups and discussed the best way for me to dislodge the tablet from my esophagus. Sergeant Pavone seemed to have the most experience. A girl with whom he’d once engaged in unprotected sex had suffered the same problem with a morning-after pill. All day, Pavone had plied the girl with water and milk, hot tea, balled-up bread and honey. He’d massaged her neck, made her hop on one foot, held her upside down, commanded her to yodel.
“So what worked?” I said.
“Nothing.”
“So what happened to her?”
“Who?”
“The girl.”
“The girl with the pill?”
“Yes.”
Pavone shrugged and sipped his coffee.
It was peacetime, more or less. At 1300, we had a domestic-abuse-prevention training. At 1500, we had a driving-under-the-influence-prevention training. At 1700, we had a suicide-and-self-harm-prevention training.
“Look like you’re doing something,” I instructed the platoon before heading to the bodega for milk.
“Like what?” Specialist Chen asked.
“Training.”
When I got back, they were working on Harvey, our Human Patient Simulator, a computerized mannequin that had a heartbeat, blinked, and breathed. One of the new privates, an outdoorsy type from [REDACTED], was struggling to perform a needle-chest decompression. At last, Harvey’s torso ceased to inflate. The private tried to make light. No one laughed. Instead, Sergeant Pavone articulated the elbow hinge and pressed two fingers to Harvey’s wrist, feeling for whatever widget was supposed to throb.
Karen had aced the civil-service exam, securing a spot at the police academy. Now, whenever we entered a crime scene, she sized up the place, noting suspicious blood trails, signs of struggle. One day, law enforcement received complaints of a man head-butting concrete walls in an alley. When Karen and I got there, we found an emotionally disturbed person keeping two officers at bay with sharp, deft karate kicks. He was well turned out for an E.D.P. He wore a tasteful suit, an understated tie, polished wingtips; every time he brandished a foot at one of the cops his pant leg hiked up, exposing colorful striped socks. The only sign of emotional disturbance was a purple hematoma from his hairline to his eyebrows.
“What do we got?” Karen asked, employing one of her new favorite “Law & Order” lines.
“Guy versus wall.”
Karen nodded. She was still nodding when the E.D.P., with remarkable athleticism, feinted right, rolled left, and sprinted by us, up the alley.
We got the next call twenty minutes later. The cops had pursued the man into a residential neighborhood, where he’d bounded through the unlocked door of a brick-and-vinyl-sided duplex. Seemed he’d made for the kitchen, extracted a chef’s knife from a heap of dirty dishes in the sink, and slit his throat. By the time we arrived, so much blood had pooled on the linoleum that I could see my dark reflection peering up at me, Karen’s peering up at her. The E.D.P. had very nearly decapitated himself, transecting both jugulars and the trachea. The cops were crouching on either side of him, pressing red dishrags to his neck. Their sleeves were sopping. They looked relieved to see us.
I kneeled above the man’s head, intubated him straight through the laceration in his windpipe, connected a bag-valve to the tube, and told one of the cops to squeeze it each time he took a breath himself. By then, Karen was ready with the dressings; when we tipped the man onto his side, however, a bucket’s worth of blood dumped out. I mean enough blood to make a splash. It looked like we’d exsanguinated a pig or two. I glanced up, searching for a towel, or a fire hose, I guess, and then I saw them: a young man and woman sitting in the dining room.
The dining room met the kitchen via a wide, arched doorway, and the doorway neatly framed the couple, who sat across from each other at a square table. In front of each was a wineglass with ice water, and a plate of greens. Beige napkins lay across their laps. A cube-shaped candle glowed on a ceramic plate. I noticed now the pleasant sound of jazz piano issuing from a stereo.
Both the man and the woman held rigid attitudes of astonishment. The woman had brought her hand to her mouth; the man had turned slightly in his chair. It was as if, by running into their house, grabbing their knife, and murdering himself, the E.D.P. had bewitched the couple. I felt pity and a kind of kinship. That might as well have been me in there, transfixed; it might as well have been my wife.
The look on their faces.
It made me want to warn them.
A few evenings later, at a bar on Third Avenue, First Sergeant Diaz said, “By the way, did you mail a biohazard bag full of lung butter to the P.O. box for the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund?”
“What kind of a question is that?” I demanded.
Diaz sipped his beer. He waved. “Never trusted that outfit. Follow the money, right?”
Not long afterward, the supervisor accosted Karen and me in the garage. “Either of you two take a snow globe from that house on Waring Ave.?” he asked.
Karen said nothing.
“A what?” I said.
“A snow globe.”
“A snow globe?”
“Homeowners claim it’s missing.”
“Guy practically cuts his head off in their kitchen, they’re worried about a snow globe?”
The supervisor shrugged, checked his watch. “I said I’d ask; I’ve asked.” He walked away.
“Believe that?” I said.
Karen was gazing at me sadly. “You need help, Papadopoulos,” she said. “I say that as your friend, your partner, and as a future law-enforcement officer.”
I barely heard her. It was Wednesday—I was thinking about Mrs. Olenski, her cookies. Olenski, however, didn’t call. She didn’t call the next Wednesday, either, or the one after that. Finally, I suggested we stop by, and Karen, her investigative instincts eclipsing her dislike, allowed, “Something doesn’t smell right.”
Prescient words.
The stench reached into the hall. The TV was on. Through the walls, we could hear Rod Roddy inviting someone to come on down. Fire joined us. Police. When they jimmied the door, we found Mrs. Olenski rotting on the couch, remote control in her translucent hand.
While Karen chatted with the cops, musing on the possibility of foul play, I wandered down the hall, into the bedroom. The bed was elaborately made; against the headboard, lace pillows were stacked in order of descending size, from enormous to tiny. By the window, a long-handled shoehorn leaned against a wicker chair, and several pairs of what must have been Mr. Olenski’s shoes, thick-soled loafers and white orthopedic sneakers, warmed near an electric heater. I went to the bureau and opened the drawers. I peeked in the bathroom. I checked the closet. Karen was calling. “Just a minute!” I shouted. What was I looking for? I was about to leave when I noticed, there on the nightstand, the dentures soaking in a glass of water.
Next drill weekend, Finkbiner was on the warpath. Seemed somebody had stolen his mandible. I corralled the platoon in the medical-supply closet and shut the door. “Get comfortable,” I told them. We sat on ammo boxes, cots, and totes, dozing and eating the everything bagels Specialist Chen had brought. At some point, the private from [REDACTED], the one who’d let Harvey die, asked Sergeant Pavone, “What’s the worst, craziest, most fucked-up thing you ever saw?” And Sergeant Pavone (whose two best friends had been crossing a bridge when an R.P.G. engulfed their Humvee in flames and knocked it into the river—who, after learning that their skin had been charred and their lungs filled with water, had asked me, over and over, with a kind of awe, “Burned and drowned?”) said, “Your mother’s box.”
I lay down on the floor and fell asleep. When I woke, it was to laughter. The private from [REDACTED] had something in his hand. A set of teeth. The private was clacking them. When I sat up, the private aimed the teeth at me, clacked them, and barked. I must not have looked amused. The laughter stopped; Pavone cleared his throat. “Are they yours, Sergeant?” the private asked.
I lay back down. I went back to sleep.
My time at the armory was coming to an end. After the jawbone disappeared, Finkbiner bought a surveillance camera. He informed Diaz, who informed me, that it would be installed the following week.
The house where my wife lived, where we had lived together, was in Flushing, only two trains and a short bus ride away. I found Elijah, our neighbor, exactly as I’d left him: shoulder-deep in the engine of his Chevy, defiantly exhibiting his bottom. When he saw me, he straightened. “Back from the dead,” he said, dragging two black palm prints across his tank top.
I waved and kept moving. When I got to our door, I was surprised to find it padlocked with a heavy steel latch. I lifted the mail slot and peered inside. Another surprise. All the furniture was gone, the living room completely empty. A few packing peanuts were scattered on the floor, like critter droppings.
Elijah was out on the sidewalk, a wrench in his hand, watching me. I walked back to him.
“Where’d she go?” I said.
“[REDACTED]. [REDACTED]. Someplace like that.”
“Why?”
“Mike had another opportunity, a fellowship or grant or something.” Elijah tapped his brow with the wrench. “Sharp, that Mike. A genius, if you ask me.”
“Who’s Mike?” I said.
“You know,” Elijah said. “Mike.”
I thought about that. “When’d they leave?”
“Four, five months ago?” Elijah cocked his head and squinted at me. “So, what, you get sent over there again? I thought we were done with all that.”
“We are,” I said.
Elijah nodded. “About time,” he said. Then he frowned in a serious way and extended his greasy hand. I took it. “Welcome home,” Elijah said.
It was Karen’s last month on the bus, her last month as a paramedic. No, I was not happy for her. Every chance I got, I cut her leathers. “Did I ever tell you about Corporal Nevins?” I said. Corporal Nevins, like me, had joined the National Guard when it was still the National Guard: adult Boy Scouts, money for college, a reprieve from the city one weekend a month. On the last day of our last deployment, he was in the turret of an mrap, climbing a small hill to bid farewell to the Afghan Army soldiers who manned the outpost on top. A high-voltage, low-hanging electrical wire caught Nevins right between his flak and his Kevlar, right where it could kill him.
“Just saying,” I told Karen.
She smiled. You couldn’t nick her with a chain saw. “I’ve heard that one,” she said. “Only he wasn’t a corporal. And his name wasn’t Nevins. And there were no Afghan soldiers. And it wasn’t a wire.”
A few days before her final shift, they sent us to the projects. I recognized the building and the apartment number instantly. It was the small man: that fucking shithead, Marty.
Once again, the boy in the hoodie met us outside the lobby, and once again the obese woman wearily led us to the bedroom. She wore the same bathrobe as before, and the same nightgown—but her sweatsuit, this time, was purplish, not brownish. Little else had changed. The action on the TV continued; the children glowed on.
As I injected the man with yet another bolus of naloxone, I looked at the boy in the hoodie. He chewed his gum, blew his bubbles, and said nothing.
En route to the hospital, I sat beside the man, monitoring his vitals. “Why’d you do that?” he kept asking. “Why’d you have to go and do that?”
After we delivered him, I changed the sheets on the stretcher and got a fresh backboard from the locker in the ambulance bay. I took out my wallet. I felt the note. I rubbed the paper between my thumb and finger. I brought the paper out. I smelled it. I unfolded it. I was just about to read it—I don’t know, I wanted to read it—when Karen, wild-eyed, hopped down from the back of the bus.
“Where’s the drug box?” she said.
Not until we were racing back to Ridgedale did the full magnitude of my blunder begin to impress itself on me. There were enough narcotics in that box to put a family down. There were nerve agents, paralytic agents, anti-arrhythmic agents. There were vials of pure adrenaline, sedatives, steroids, Valium, and anesthetics.
“That boy,” I said. “I was distracted.”
Karen switched on the lights and the siren. She clenchedher teeth. It looked like a mini tachycardic heart was pounding in her cheek. “My last month,” she said.
When we got there, Karen stayed in the bus while I ran inside. The sweat-suited woman crossed her arms and clucked while I searched the bedroom. “You people,” she commented. The box wasn’t there.
When I asked her where her son was, the woman scowled and reared back, as if from a bee.
Karen was waiting in the lobby.
“I’m calling it in,” she said.
“Nobody’s calling anybody,” I said.
I walked outside. The light was dimming, and the lamps, in anticipation, were on. I followed a footpath, distended by shallow tree roots, around the corner. In the lamp-and-evening light I saw a small playground: a metal climbing structure and a swing set anchored to a concrete pad. A group of teen-agers were gathered by the swings. They were huddled close together, convening over something. I approached with caution.
Before I got very near, one of them noticed me and alerted the others. There was some jostling—some hurried consultation—and then, all at once, they scattered. I saw, I thought I saw, a boy carrying something under his arm. I pursued him. We ran through the warren of brick apartment buildings, past more playgrounds, across a basketball court, across a parking lot, down a street, and then back into the warren, back to the first playground, it seemed, though maybe not. I had lost sight of him. I leaned against a lamppost and hacked up beautiful black samples. In the distance, a dark figure flitted by the window of a lobby. I jogged there. Beside the elevator, a door led to a stairwell; when I opened it, I heard footsteps and followed them up the stairs. I was so tired. I kept having to pause, slump against the wall, cough. At some point, I realized that the footsteps had stopped. I opened a door, looked both ways down a hall. It was empty. I did the same on the next floor, and the next. Empty, empty. I reached the top. “Alarm Will Sound*,*” the sign said. I pushed and nothing happened. I was on the roof.
It was dark out. It was not evening anymore. How long had I been chasing the boy? I looked at my watch. Our shift was already over—it had been over for some time. I walked to the edge of the roof. Far away, on the opposite side of the projects, I saw the blue-and-red lights of squad cars, the white beams of flashlights sweeping bushes and dumpsters. Beyond that was the river, a slick of oil in a phosphorescent sea. And beyond that?
Somewhere someone was calling my name. 

