All You Have to Do
By Sarah Braunstein
It was 1972 and Sid Baumwell was hungry. For the salt at the bottom of the pretzel dish, for frozen [REDACTED] bars, for appreciation from someone who wasn’t a blood relation—preferably a girl with pink cheeks and big sleepy eyes, like the one in “The Graduate,” his second-favorite movie of all time. He could do two dozen pull-ups. No acne. He wasn’t truly handsome but not bad-looking—handsome enough, he felt, to deserve his hunger. Freckles across the bridge of his nose, slightly splayed feet, respectable height. Smart. He knew this. His teachers told him so when they pulled him aside to say that he wasn’t working up to his potential. He had potential, and this mattered more than grades, comforted him more than any A. He held a secret belief that he could, if he really really really wanted to, become President, but he didn’t want to, enjoyed his personal freedoms too much—in any case, politicians were chumps. He told himself that as the eldest of three he was sort of like the president of the siblings, though he knew he was too passive, conflict-averse, not enough righteous fury. His sister, Robin, had got all the fury. “Dickweed,” she hissed. For six months she had referred to him only as Jack Squat, which didn’t seem so mean until you saw her raging eyes. Even then, Sid’s response had been to shrug and walk away. When his brother took a [REDACTED] bar from the freezer, Sid’s43616e616461 bar, what did Sid do? He let it go. Faced with his brother’s saucer eyes and defective right hand, the chocolate ring around his pale mouth, Sid never found the strength to do anything but shrug.
So, right. He’d be an un-American President, anyway, too much compassion for the retarded and the lame. His mother called him “baby boy” or “Teddy beary.” “Shut up, Ma!” he never said, though he was beginning to suspect that he should. A legitimate red-blooded sixteen-year-old boy needed a grievance. Where was his pride? Where! But he never got around to it, and anyhow his mom loved him so much.
At the grocery store one day, picking up milk and powdered doughnuts and three cans of creamed corn, he saw a card table set up near the register. A man in a dark suit stood behind the table—slicked-back hair, broad shoulders, smiling at Sid as if they were old friends. The man said, “Feel like a winner today, son?”
Sid thought about it. “Maybe?”
“No maybe about it. Maybe gives the gods a chance to pass you by.”
“I feel like a winner,” Sid said.
The man extended a hand. This was at a point in Sid’s life when he was still flattered when an older man shook his hand, flattered by a handshake so hard it hurt. This handshake went on for a beat too long, but Sid didn’t know that. The handshake felt respectful; respect was also something Sid was hungry for. The man said that his name was Bill Baxter, that he was a representative of a regional company that sold aluminum foil, waxed paper, and other fine products that make this hard life easier. He was travelling the area, distributing samples and hosting raffles in grocery stores. Would Sid be interested in a lifetime’s supply of aluminum foil?
“We’re trying to compete with the national brand,” Bill said. “The national brand which shall go nameless.”
“Reynolds?”
“It shall go nameless,” he repeated, winking. He looked a bit like a spy. Men who even slightly resembled James Bond, who could pass for civilians but had an air of regal deviousness about them, men whose hair coöperated, impressed Sid terribly. And yes he wanted a lifetime’s supply of aluminum foil. That sort of thing would win his mother’s admiration and soothe his father’s financial anxieties—and so Sid wrote his name and phone number on an orange raffle ticket. He dropped the ticket in a fishbowl, already full of orange tickets, and realized that chances were slim he’d win. He said, “I won’t win.”
Bill showed big white teeth. Capillaries branched across his cheeks like fine lace. He said, “Never know, right? The future’s a mystery.” He produced a wooden spoon from his suit jacket and stirred the contents of the fishbowl. Then he blew on the spoon and pretended to taste it, wincing in pain as if he’d burned his mouth. Sid laughed. Bill seemed to take pleasure in Sid’s laugh; a flush obliterated the capillaries.
“You go to school?” Bill asked, returning the spoon to his suit jacket. But before Sid could answer he said, “Sure you do. Sure thing. You should stay in school, earn good grades, study hard, it’s all true.” He leaned in closer and, in a tight whisper, like a private message from 007 himself, said, “But T. and A., that’s what makes a life.”
Sid stepped back. “What?”
Bill smiled gamely. “Study hard, son,” he said. “And wash behind your ears.”
Those letters played in Sid’s head on the walk home. When you stuck them together like that, T. and A., he couldn’t help picturing a girl in a disembodied way, just those parts floating in the air, a serial-killer fantasy. So he tried to supply a face. Whose face? Marley Grey’s. He pictured Marley’s dimples, her sly smile, the fingerprint-size mole at her right temple, that whirly smudge which since kindergarten he was sure meant she’d been touched by a higher power. And though it was true that since kindergarten he’d been three-quarters atheist, the other quarter saw Marley’s face and believed. He put her face above the T. and the A.
No. Now she was disjointed—head, breasts, buttocks—like a swaying string puppet. He walked home faster, rearranging his thoughts. His mother was making beef stew and creamed corn tonight. He was dishes on the chore wheel this week. That meant that his sister was garbage and would complain that it was dangerous for her to go outside alone at night and he’d end up lugging the trash to the curb. Dangerous! There was zero danger here. His mean, unattractive sister fantasized about rapists, but no man paid her any attention at all. So what did Sid do? Feel sorry for her. Take out the trash. Where was his fury when he needed it? Where!
As he was crossing McGovern, a car slowed beside him. It was Bill Baxter, rolling down a window. “Need a lift?” he sang.
“I’m not far from home, I guess,” Sid called back. Warnings flashed through his head, though those men wore clown costumes or at least sunglasses.
Bill said, “Hop in! I need the company. Anyway, looks like it might rain.” And it was true—the sky was turning a bruisy green-gray, an ozone charge in the air—so Sid got in.
The car was immaculate, a plush maroon interior free of debris, windows spotless. It smelled like peppermint. A blue-and-yellow candy cane hung from the rearview mirror. It couldn’t have been further from Sid’s family’s car, that crumb-filled, gas-stinking station wagon with its roped-on muffler.
“Nice car,” Sid said.
Bill gave a heard-it-all laugh. “This heap? This belonged to my old lady. Once it was my old lady’s mama’s. Those two. You get caught in the crossfire of their chatter, you long for unconsciousness. Where am I taking you?”
Sid explained how to get to his street. They passed the cemetery and the Sweets-N-Freeze and the vet where his cat got put to sleep after she was hit by a sanitation truck.
Sid felt obliged to fill the silence—Bill was a guest in his town, which wasn’t unlike having a guest in his home—so he said, “My cat got put to sleep right there.”
“They kill your kitty at the ice-cream parlor?”
“Next door. The vet.”
Bill nodded, flexed and unflexed his hands on the wheel. “Right. Naturally. I don’t mean to jest.” Then, after a pause: “I’m not a cat person myself, but I know good people who are.” 
All four of her legs had been broken. The vet, a woman with a faint mustache and a stack of clinking plastic bracelets on one arm, had taken his mother’s hand and said, “Do what’s right, Ma’am, that’s all you have to do.”
“I’m not a cat person either,” Sid said. When it was put that way—“cat person”—it sounded creepy. He thought, Just that cat. Just Ponderosa.
“It was mother-in-law’s, before she died. And my wife’s, before she took off with Sal the Salamander Bristol. Now it’s mine. Play your cards right, it could be yours!”
“A cat?”
“The car. I’m talking about this car now.”
They passed the public library; they passed Louis Lombardo, fat and schizophrenic, wearing the uniform of the job he’d long since lost, still pruning the bushes at Town Hall. He was Loony Lou. He weeded and trimmed and sometimes left bouquets on the doorsteps of certain women who were way out of his league, including—Sid heard from kids at school—Marley’s mother. Lou worked with manic intensity, hurried from one patch of civic vegetation to another, park to library to school. No one paid him a cent, but supposedly his services allowed the city council to cut back on its landscaping budget.
“You interested in cars?” Bill asked.
“Sure,” Sid said, though it wasn’t quite true. He was interested in cars the way he was interested in “careers” or “marriage”—someday he’d partake, maybe, hopefully, but for now these categories had nothing to do with him.
“Zero to sixty in half an hour,” Bill said. “All requests for acceleration must be submitted in writing. You get it? This car lacks power. I’d rather have a— No, I’d rather have nothing. This is the car that was preferred by my mother-in-law, and I take what I can get. You play your cards right, she could be yours. I’m in the process of letting go.”
“It’s so clean,” Sid heard himself say. He touched the window, left a greasy print, wiped it with the sleeve of his shirt.
“Clean? Certainly. The objects in a man’s life reflect his spirit.”
Sid said, “What do you mean, if I play my cards right?”
Bill was silent. Then he took a long, grave breath, like a swimmer before the dive, and said, “I’m making decisions about my life. I might start giving things away. I can’t decide if it’s better to be wed to nothing. Or if it’s better to collect, to defend yourself with things. The things you own own you. Who said that? I can’t remember. What do you think?”
“I don’t own anything,” Sid said.
The shelf above his bed held one participation trophy, a sea shell the size of his ear, and an unopened complete set of Topps baseball cards from the year of his birth. Somewhere in that shrink-wrapped box, an immaculate Ted Williams.
Sid said, “I don’t own anything important.”
“You like it that way?”
He didn’t. He kept a list in his wallet of things he wanted: cowboy boots, an onyx fountain pen, an old-fashioned shaving kit with a boar-bristle brush, a new wallet.
“I don’t know what I like yet,” Sid said.
“Of course you do. What you like doesn’t come with age. It’s innate. How old are you, son?”
“Sixteen.”
“Experience is overrated. Who said that?”
“I don’t know.”
“I did! Just now! Aren’t you paying attention?”
Sid laughed, but to be honest he was starting to feel uneasy. “Take a left here.”
“I’m divorced.” Bill took the turn a little too fast. “Wife got a new life. I got the car. Good riddance.”
“You been doing this long?”
“Picking up kids? You’re the first, I promise.”
“I meant the foil.”
“I know what you meant. Long enough. I’ve been a salesman forever. Shoes first. Various chemical products. This is a sideline.” He ran a hand through his perfect hair. “Look, is it weird to say I see myself in you?”
“I don’t know—a little?” Sid felt as if he were in a movie. The queasy-looking sky, the clean car, the forcefulness of Bill’s voice, the presence of Bill’s coöperative hair next to his own moppish cowlicky mess. It made him feel like there was a camera nearby.
Bill said, “You’re a bright kid, I can tell. You’ve got an astute face. I’m good at reading faces. So can I ask: this town. How do you handle it?”
“Handle it how?”
“That’s what I’m asking. I can’t imagine growing up here. So small. So dim. Two days here feels like two weeks. I’m trying to figure out a place to go. I can go anywhere. Tell me why I should stay here. Make a case for this town. I want to be convinced of something. Convince me.”
Sid said that he’d never lived anyplace else, so he couldn’t make a case for the town. As soon as he graduated from high school, he was leaving. “But it’s not a bad place. Not at all. People are nice.”
“Nice is the kiss of death.”
“I know what you mean.”
“Sure you know. You’re sixteen but you’re no fool.”
“Here,” Sid said. “My house.”
Bill pulled over. They looked at it together: chalky blue shingles, faded shutters, metal watering can on the concrete stoop, scrappy hydrangea.
“Home again home again,” Bill said, and sighed. “I see exactly how it feels.”
Sid opened the passenger door. The spring air smelled rude, animal, after the crisp peppermint of the car. He hesitated a moment. He said, “How do you know how it feels?,” and heard a trace of defensiveness in his voice.
“I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings, kid.”
“You didn’t.”
But why shouldn’t he feel defensive? This was his home, after all. He was born in this town’s two-story hospital, had been kept alive and well by its tater tots and crosswalks and elderly crossing guards. This town’s good-hearted teachers had urged his hand across so many cursive worksheets. It was for this town’s warm, metallic water that he’d learned to heave his tiny self onto giant water fountains.
And yet in certain ways Sid couldn’t really see the town, could he? An outsider, a judgmental outsider, could tell him things.
“You didn’t hurt my feelings,” he said, more forcefully.
All at once, the windshield was covered with mist.
Bill said, “Most people don’t have an appetite for truth, I’ve learned.”
“The truth doesn’t bother me.”
“No?”
“Not to my knowledge.”
“That’s very good to know.”
Sid swallowed. “So how does it feel?”
“How does what feel?”
“This town.”
“You want to know?”
“I do.”
“It feels . . .” Bill paused. The rain got stronger. “It feels like tomorrow won’t come fast enough. Like today’s some lazy bum with his feet on the coffee table, no intention of going anywhere ever at all. Like you could wave a stick of dynamite in today’s face and it wouldn’t even wince. Does that seem about right?”
Sid said it did seem about right, yes. He hugged his grocery bag to his chest. He got out of the car. Bill flicked on his wipers, lifted a hand, was gone.
The next evening, at dinnertime, the phone rang. His mother answered, crinkled her brow. People weren’t supposed to call at dinnertime. They were just about to sit down. The table was spread with five settings, a basket of six rolls, veal cutlets, peas, five glasses of milk. They all drank milk, even Sid’s dad. It was his mother’s one non-negotiable demand. For the past week they’d been using pink doily napkins left over from his sister’s birthday party.
“For you,” his mother told Sid. “Joan? You know a Joan?”
Sid shook his head. He picked up the phone in the living room.
“Is this Sid?”
“Yes, it is.”
“I’m happy to report you’re the winner of a lifetime supply of aluminum foil.”
“I am? Really? For real?”
“You are—really. For real.” She seemed irritated.
Then: “Wait, who is this?”
“My name is Joan.”
“Bill . . .”
“I’m the secretary.”
He was disappointed.
“I won?” he said again. “Really? That’s great!”
“How old are you, Sid?”
“Sixteen . . . Is that O.K.? I don’t need to be an adult to win, do I?”
“I suppose not.” 
“Bill invited me to enter.”
“That’s fine,” the woman said in a tired voice. “Don’t get all riled up.”
A kind of pressure was mounting in his chest—a sense of victory. More than victory. A sense of triumph—as if this unlikely win (that fishbowl had been full) foretold other, bigger, more encompassing wins.
“A truck will arrive on Saturday morning to deliver the aluminum foil. You will be available then to receive it?”
He said he would be. He gave his address.
His family had begun eating without him. He sat down, unfolded his napkin, and announced the news.
His sister said flatly, derisively, “Holy shit, wow.”
“Holy smokes,” his mother urged. And to Sid: “Where did you meet this man? He had a fishbowl?”
“At Marvin’s. Near the register. The bowl was full of tickets.”
“Fine print?” his father said.
“No fine print.” Sid lifted his chest. “They’re delivering it Saturday.”
“No fine print,” his mother said. She was beaming. “And we need that! Did you know it? Aluminum foil is on my grocery list!”
Sid’s father, who was allowed certain curse words, who got two dinner rolls, said, “Hot damn, son.”
Ricky pretended to be bored but was obviously jealous. Sid sensed his brother’s envy and said, “Lucky break, I guess,” because he was a good brother.
His mother went to the kitchen, returned with a piece of paper that read pie stuff, detergent, alum foil, choco sprinkles, thyme. Across the top of the stationery were the words “Mother knows best,” in all caps, between two bunches of daffodils. The pad had been a gift from Sid on her previous birthday. With a stubby pencil, she drew a line through alum foil, then thrust the paper into Sid’s hand.
“Keep that,” she said.
He kept it. He kept it longer than he kept a lot of things.
On Friday afternoon, Sid and his brother cleared a wall of the garage, dumped old magazines and rags and broken toys, dumped the mildewed hobby horse they’d ridden as kids, dumped half-empty motor-oil containers, paint cans. They worked for a couple of hours preparing for the arrival of aluminum foil. His mother, meanwhile, baked a lasagna; Sid understood that her intention was to praise him, after dinner, by covering the leftovers with a sheet of his bounty.
On Saturday, the truck arrived, bearing the name of the regional manufacturer on its side. A man who was not Bill descended from the cab.
“It’s here!” Sid called. His parents rushed to the door. The three of them stood on the front stoop. The deliveryman took a couple of steps onto the crabgrassy lawn. He read from a clipboard. “Sid . . . uh . . . Bomb-Wall?”
“Bowem-well,” his father said, proudly, as if their name meant something, was not an Ellis Island concoction.
“I’m Sid,” Sid said. “Me.”
“Okeydoke,” the guy said.
“It can go in the garage,” Sid said.
The deliveryman went to the truck, opened the back, climbed inside, and emerged holding a small cardboard box. This he carried up the walkway and handed to Sid.
Inside were eight rolls.
That was it. A lifetime supply. Why had they imagined boxes and boxes? On the curb, mocking them, sat a pile of garbage bags full of the junk they’d cleared out of the garage.
The delivery truck left. Still they stood on the stoop.
“Well done,” his mother said. She tousled his hair.
“Eight?” His father’s mouth got small, strained. “Cheap buggers.”
His mother scowled. “Don’t do that! What do they say? About the gift horse?” She turned to Sid. “This was on my list,” she reminded him.
He’d let them down. He felt like Bill was mocking him. WasBill mocking him?
His parents went back into the house, but Sid stayed on the stoop.
Only now did he realize that Bill had picked his ticket on purpose. How could he have realized this only now? How had he failed to understand this right away?
At dinner that night, he saw clearly the meagreness of their life. Those sad party napkins, the nicks in the wooden table, the cheapness of their clothes. His mother’s polyester top, its polka dots stretched weirdly over her weirdly big breasts. His whole life he would buy Reynolds, he decided. “Eat up!” his mother said. “First person to finish gets seconds.” All that remained of the lasagna was the crispy edge pieces.
A few weeks later, as Sid walked home from school, the maroon car slowed down next to him. It wasn’t like Sid to get angry, let alone stay angry, and yet since the delivery he’d been nursing anger and abashedness in equal measure. Abashedness because what the hell was wrong? What could he complain about? Nothing! But anger, even so. For the smallness of the lifetime supply. For his father’s disappointment. For how sad it made him to see how readily his father would have been soothed by a great quantity of anything. Bill had done it on purpose. He seemed—in some essential way—like a con man.
Sid was angry for those reasons. But also, if he was honest with himself, because he’d expected Bill to return. He’d expected him to call on the phone with congratulations, with the pretense of congratulations, in order to say more outrageous, electric things.
And so when Sid saw Bill’s car he felt not anger but a flash of relief.
Bill rolled down the window.
“Cuppa joe? On me.”
“I don’t drink joe,” Sid said.
Inside the car, classical music was playing. The candy cane still hung from the rearview mirror. That candy cane wouldn’t have lasted a minute if this were Sid’s car. His appetite for sugar was legendary. Or maybe it was a different candy cane? Maybe Bill kept a bag in the glove compartment and replaced it continually? It would comfort Sid, somehow, to learn that Bill loved sugar, too.
They drove down LeMay Street, green lights all the way.
Bill said, “Coffee won’t stunt your growth if that’s what you’re worried about.”
“I’m not worried.”
“Old wives’ tale. I’ve been sucking at the java teat since I was—six? seven?”
Sid said, “I’m not worried about my growth.”
“You’re tall enough.” Bill’s voice was tight, almost mean. “And true stature is internal, anyhow.”
“I don’t like the taste.”
“You sound like a teen-ager. ‘Taste’ is teen-ager business. What do you like the taste of?”
“Whiskey,” Sid said, and this cut the tension. Bill laughed; Sid laughed. Like a laugh between old friends, easy, warm, which in the next moment alarmed him, because why should they be friends?
“Where do you want to go?” Bill asked. “No coffee, fine. I’d take you to a bar, but you’re just sixteen.”
“I’m on my way home from school.”
“Home’s no good. Home’s just the starting line.”
“My mother’s expecting me. She’s making lamb chops.”
“What’s the highest place in this town? Let’s go there?”
The highest place wasn’t very high, a clearing on a hill from which you could see the light-bulb factory and a playground. When they got there, Bill turned off the car. The music stopped, which Sid regretted, yet he didn’t feel he had the right to ask Bill to turn it back on.
“You picked my ticket,” Sid said.
“Now, why would I do that?” Bill opened the glove compartment. No candy canes but a silver flask. He unscrewed the top, took a long sip, and offered it to Sid.
Sid hesitated.
“You and your friends drink in cars?”
He didn’t have many friends. Just Chip and Lilo, sometimes Joshua, and they drank Kool-Aid and played Stratego in Lilo’s basement. They got drunk on nothing but humid, laundry-scented basement air and the occasional glimpse of Lilo’s mom’s cleavage and calves when she lumbered downstairs, laundry basket on one hip, toddler on the other.
Sid said, “We don’t have cars.”
“You want one?”
“Who doesn’t?”
“Drink,” Bill told him.
Sid took the flask. He drank.
“You won fair and square,” Bill said. “You have to accept that, son. You’re blessed like that. Can you accept that?” 
Blessed! The word stung him, thrilled him, and in this way felt exactly like the whiskey going down. For the rest of his life, every time he took a sip of whiskey, the word that would describe the sensation—that was the sensation—was “blessed.”
“I know you picked it,” Sid said.
“That’s not polite, son. Contradicting an elder.”
“O.K., I won fair and square.”
“That’s right.”
New leaves on the trees, a wide open sky. Down on the playground, bands of children assaulted the swings. Their coats littered the perimeter.
Bill’s hair was perfect. How did he get his hair so perfect? Sid felt the urge to ask what sort of grease he used in it, how he got his teeth so white. Bill came from a universe where men knew these things. Sid was ninety-nine-point-nine-per-cent sure that he himself would fail to find this universe, either because it didn’t exist anymore or because he’d get lost on the way—maybe, likely, both. His father had never found it. His father’s floppy, thinning hair was tamed by three swoops of an electric razor. His father would never know shaken or stirred.
“I’m thinking about giving away my belongings,” Bill said. He tossed the flask back again, swallowed, exhaled through his teeth. “Let’s say I gave you a pair of silver cufflinks. What would you say to that?”
“That I couldn’t accept.”
“Your manners will be the death of you.”
Sid took another sip. Blessed. Blessed. Down below, the children assembled for tug-of-war.
“If I gave you a shirt with French cuffs and some silver cufflinks, would you wear them? Would you have the guts to wear them to school? I know how kids your age dress. No one has any pride. Would you wear a suit to school if I gave you a suit?”
Sid decided that he would forgo his good manners, would be candid, that the novelty of the moment, their new altitude, gave him permission.
He said, “I would never wear a suit to school.”
It embarrassed Sid how ugly he must look to Bill, in his sweatshirt and ratty jeans, but to show up at school in a suit and cufflinks would be worse than death. He thought of Marley. Her whole alphabet body. She would laugh at him.
“People would laugh at me.”
“So?”
“So I’d rather not get that kind of attention.”
“You know a better kind?”
“Of course.”
Alan Desmarais, president of the student council three years running. The girls rushed him in the cafeteria. He had the biggest Adam’s apple of anyone at Monroe High, teachers included. Once, he’d winked at Sid when they passed in the hall. Pandering. Paternalistic. The kind of attention Alan got, the power it afforded him—he could taunt with only a wink.
But there was a worse kind of attention also. Sid knew this. Like Ricky’s defect, his claw hand forever cupped at his side, as if to cradle a baby bird. Mitten it! Mitten it! For a period of time in elementary school, this had been the playground chant. And even then Sid, older by two years, hadn’t had the balls to beat up Oliver and Max and that lunatic Susan Kipper, whose boobs were bigger than her brain, even in fifth grade. She of all people should have been understanding about defects. He could do nothing but wait, helpless, dumb, the furthest thing from presidential. Where was his anger? Where!
“I try to take the middle road,” Sid finally said. “Blend in.”
“Blending is for cooks. Fear isn’t any way to conduct a life. You should wear a suit if it pleases you. Cufflinks, at least.”
Bill’s voice was wise. It knew. To hold Bill’s cufflinks in his hand—just imagining their lightness in his palm—filled him with a desire to transcend his boyhood right now.
Bill said, reading his mind, “You’re a special kid, Sid.”
And then he unbuckled his seat belt. Sid felt a change in the air. A charge. It had never happened in his life, he had never once been kissed, and yet he felt with surety: he is going to kiss me. Bill is going to kiss me. Bill is going to kiss me.
Bill didn’t move.
Sid’s body thrummed. Deep shivery calm, like when his mother ran her long fingernails down his neck after she tried and failed to tame his hair. He was still, waited, but Bill didn’t kiss him. Instead, Bill said, “We’re after the perfect woman, you and me. Except she doesn’t exist. Or she does but she’s hiding. In the meantime, we make do. I want to give you some bookends. They’re made of amber. In the trunk. Don’t let me forget to give them to you. Promise you won’t forget?”
Sid said, “I don’t need bookends.”
“Someday you will. You’ll have a den full of books.”
The shivery feeling lifted. He felt profoundly dumb. Why had he thought that this man would kiss him? What sort of lunatic was he? The word “homosexual” sputtered like a flame in his brain and, mercifully, went out.
“The lifetime supply was only eight rolls,” Sid said.
Bill sighed deeply. “You heard about the mouth of the gift horse, kid?”
“I have.”
“You’ll be lucky if you get through five before the Reaper comes, studies say.”
Bill put his seat belt back on. He started up the car. The music resumed.
On the way home they passed the Sweets-N-Freeze and Looney Lou spinning in the roses and a bunch of ill-dressed boys playing stickball. They passed many mothers pushing strollers.
When they pulled up in front of Sid’s house, Bill said, “Maybe one day you’ll wake up and find this car in your driveway. I’ll be gone. You’ll find the keys in the ignition. One day. Maybe soon. Will you keep an eye out?”
The bones in Bill’s face glowed in the late sunlight. He was handsome, like a magazine man. But close to an edge. What edge? The edge of what? He was not dangerous—Sid understood it now—but in danger. He was lost.
“Will you keep an eye out?” Bill asked again, a touch of plaintiveness in his voice.
Sid didn’t know what to say. What if the car showed up in the driveway? Would he get in it? Would he drive away? Could he? Was there a perfect girl hiding somewhere? He didn’t believe enough in anything, or only in doubt and in waiting—only those two things one hundred and ten per cent, and those were the worst things on earth.
Inside, his mother was making her lamb chops. She called them her legendary lamb chops. What’s for dinner tonight, Ma? Legendary lamb chops. He felt so sorry for her, so grateful for her. He suppressed the reflex to invite Bill in to dinner. Instead, he said, “I’ll keep an eye out.”
Bill nodded. It was time to go.
“I’m sorry about the foil, kid.” He seemed to mean it. “I wish it were better. We get the prizes we deserve is what I’ve come to believe. You’ll win many more prizes in your life, big and little both. My days of prizes are over but yours aren’t, I guarantee that.”
Sid kept an eye out. He would wake up every day and check the driveway for the car. Before peeing, before brushing his teeth—he would look outside. First.
Sid looked down and saw that his hand was being touched by Bill’s hand. Bill’s long, cool fingers rested lightly on his own. He was filled with calm, alert curiosity. His impulse was to stay perfectly still, to freeze, like when a ladybug lands on your hand. Or not a ladybug—something weirder. A glowy beetle, an insect you’d never for a second believe lived in your ho-hum corner of the universe. But it does. It is showing you. Stay still. Do not move a muscle. That thing could have landed anywhere, on anything. The word for this is luck.

