Sleep
By Colm Tóibín
Iknow what you will do when morning comes. I wake before you do and I lie still. Sometimes I doze, but usually I am alert, with my eyes open. I don’t move. I don’t want to disturb you. I can hear your soft, calm breathing and I like that. And then at a certain point you turn toward me without opening your eyes; your hand reaches over, and you touch my shoulder or my back. And then all of you comes close to me. It is as though you were still sleeping—there is no sound from you, just a need, almost urgent but unconscious, to be close to someone. This is how the day begins when you are with me.
It is strange how much unwitting effort it has taken to bring us here. The engineers and software designers could never have guessed, as they laid out their strategies and sought investment, that the thing they were making—the Internet—would cause two strangers to meet and then, after a time, to lie in the half-light of morning, holding each other. Were it not for them, we would never have been together in this place.
One day you ask me if I hate the British, and I say that I do not. All that is over now. It is easy to be Irish these days. Easier maybe than being Jewish and knowing, as you do, that your great-aunts and uncles perished at Hitler’s hands. And that your grandparents, whom you love and visit sometimes out on [REDACTED], lost their brothers and sisters; they live with that catastrophe day in, day out.
It is a pity that there is such great German music, you say, and I tell you that [REDACTED] comes in many guises, and you shrug and say, “Not for us.”
We are in [REDACTED], on the Upper West Side, and when I open the blinds in the bedroom we can see the river and the George Washington Bridge. You don’t know, because I will never tell you, how much it frightens me that the bridge is so close and in full view. You know more about music than I do, but I have read books that you have not read. I hope that you will never stumble on a copy of James Baldwin’s “Another Country”; I hope that I will never come into the room and find you reading it, following Rufus through [REDACTED] to his final journey up this way, on the train, to the bridge, the jump, the water.
There is a year missing in your stories of your life, and this makes everyone who loves you watch you with care. I have asked you about it a few times and seen your hunched shoulders and your vague, empty look, the nerdy look that you have when you are low. I know your parents dislike the fact that I am older than you, but the knowledge that I don’t drink alcohol or take drugs almost makes up for that, or I like to think it does. You don’t drink or take drugs, either, but you do go outside to smoke, and maybe I should take up smoking, too, so that I can watch over you casually when you are out there and not have to wait and then feel relief when I hear the doors of the elevator opening and your key in the lock.
There is no year in my life that I cannot account for, but there are years that I do not think about now, years that went by slowly, in a sort of coiled pain. I have never bothered you with the details. You think I am strong because I am older, and maybe that is the way things should be.
I am old enough to remember when things were different. But no one cares now, in this apartment building or in the world outside, that we are men and we wake often in the same bed. No one cares now that when we touch each other’s face we find that we both need to shave. Or that when I touch your body I find a body like mine, though in better shape and twenty and more years younger. You are circumcised and I am not. That is a difference. We are cut and uncut, as they say in this country where we both live now, where you were born. 

[REDACTED], Ireland, the Internet, gay rights, Judaism, Catholicism: they have all brought us here. To this room, to this bed in [REDACTED]. How easy it would have been for this never to have happened. How unlikely it would have seemed in the past.
I feel happy, rested, ready for the day as I return from the shower and find you lying on your back with your glasses on, your hands behind your head.
“You know that you were groaning in the night? Almost crying. Saying things.” Your voice is accusing; there is a quaver in it.
“I don’t remember anything. That’s funny. Was it loud?”
“It was loud. Not all the time, but just before the end it was loud, and you were waving your hands around. I moved over to you and whispered to you, and then you fell back asleep. You were all right then.”
“When you whispered to me, what did you say?”
“I said that it was all O.K., that there was nothing wrong. Something like that.”
“I hope I didn’t keep you awake.”
“It was no problem. I went back to sleep. I don’t know what you were dreaming about, but it wasn’t good.”
The fear comes on Saturdays, and it comes, too, if I am staying somewhere, in a hotel room, for example, and there is shouting in the street in the night. Shouting under my window. I keep it to myself, the fear, and by doing this sometimes I keep it away, at arm’s length, elsewhere. But there are other times when it breaks through, something close to dread, as though what happened had not occurred yet but will occur, is about to do so, and there is nothing I can do to stop it. The fear can come from nowhere. I may be reading, as I often do on Saturdays while you practice or go to a concert with your friends. I am reading and then suddenly I look up, disturbed.
The fear enters the pit of my stomach and the base of my neck like pain, and it seems as if nothing could lift it. Eventually, as it came, it will go, though not easily. Sometimes a sigh, or a walk to the fridge, or making myself busy putting clothes or papers away, will rid me of it, but it is always hard to tell what will work. The fear could stay for a while, or come back as though it had forgotten something. It is not under my control.
I know where I was and what I was doing when my brother died. I was in Brighton, in [REDACTED], and I was in bed and I could not sleep, because there were drunken crowds shouting below my hotel window. Sometime between two and three in the morning he died, in his own house in [REDACTED]. He was alone there that night. If I had been sleeping at the moment when it happened, I might have woken, or at least stirred in the night. But probably not. Probably I would just have gone on sleeping.
He died. That is the most important thing to say. My brother was in his own house in [REDACTED]. He was alone. It was a Saturday night, Sunday morning. He called for an ambulance before two in the morning. When it arrived, he was dead, and the paramedics could not bring him back to life.
I have never told anyone that I was awake in that room in Brighton in those hours. It hardly matters. It matters only to me and only at times.
On one of those winter evenings when you are staying here, we go to bed early. Like a good 556e6974656420537461746573n, you wear a T-shirt and boxers in bed. I am wearing pajamas, like a good Irishman. Chet Baker is on low. We are both reading, but I know you are restless. Because you are young, I always suspect that you are horny when I am not, and that is a joke between us. But it is probably true; it would make sense. In any case, you move toward me. I have learned always to pay attention when this happens, never to seem distracted or tired or bored. As we lie together, you whisper.
“I told my analyst about you.”
“What about me?”
“About your crying in the night and my coming home on Saturday to find you looking so frightened or sad or something that you could barely talk.”
“You didn’t say anything about it on Saturday. Was it this Saturday?”
“Yeah, it was Saturday. I didn’t want to raise the subject.”
“What did he say?”
“He says that you have to do something about it. I told him you said that Irish people don’t go to analysts.”
“What did he say?”
“He said that explains why there are so many bad Irish novels and plays.” 
“There are some good Irish plays.”
“He doesn’t think so.”
We lie there listening to Chet Baker singing “Almost Blue,” and I move to kiss you. You prop yourself up on your elbow and look at me.
“He says that you have to get help but it has to be Irish help, only an Irish analyst could make sense of you. I told him that you didn’t hate the British, and maybe you could get, like, a British one, and he said it sounded like you needed help even more urgently than he’d thought.”
“Do you pay him for this rubbish?”
“My dad pays him.”
“He sounds like a bundle of laughs, your shrink.”
“He told me not to listen to you. Just to make you do it. I said that you were O.K. most of the time. But I’ve told him that before. Hey, he likes the sound of you.”
“Fuck him!”
“He’s good, he’s nice, he’s smart. And he’s straight, so you don’t have to worry about him.”
“That’s true. I don’t have to worry about him.”
Spring comes, and something that I had forgotten about begins. Behind this apartment building is an alley, or an opening between two buildings, and if it is warm at night some students gather there, maybe the ones who smoke. Sometimes I hear them and the sound becomes part of the night, like the noise the radiators make, until it fades. It has never bothered me in all the time I have lived here, and I have no memory of your ever remarking on it. It is quiet here, quiet compared with downtown or the apartment you share in Williamsburg on the nights when you do not stay with me.
Nonetheless, I should have known that some night that noise would find me in my sleep. Maybe if I had got an Irish shrink, as your shrink suggested, he would have warned me about this, or I would have come to warn myself after many meetings with him.
I don’t remember how it begins, but you do. I am whimpering in my sleep, or so you say, and then going quiet for a while. And then when there is more shouting in the alley behind the building I start to shiver. You say that it is more like someone shuddering, recoiling in fright, but still I have no memory of this. When you try and fail to wake me, you become afraid. I know that everything you do, the way you manage your day, is driven by your need never to become afraid.
When I finally wake, you are on your cell phone and you look frightened. You tell me what happened and then you reach for your shirt.
“I’m going.”
“What’s wrong?”
“I’ll talk to you in the morning. I’m going to get a cab.”
“A cab?”
“Yeah, I have money.”
I watch you dress. You are silent and deliberate. Suddenly, you seem much older. In the light from the lamp on your side of the bed I can see what you will look like in the future. You turn as you go out the door.
“I’ll text.”
Within a minute you are gone. It is three-forty-five when I look at the clock. When I text and say that I am sorry for waking you, you do not reply.
The next evening you come over. I can tell that you have something to say. You ignore me when I ask if you have eaten.
“Hey, I’m going to take my clothes and stuff.”
“I’m sorry about last night.”
“You scared me. There’s something wrong with you. I don’t know what it is, but it’s too much for me.”
“You don’t want to stay here again?”
“Hey, I never said that. That is not what I said.”
You sigh and sit down. I start to talk.
“Maybe we should—”
“No, no ‘maybe,’ and no ‘we should.’ You have to go and see someone. You can’t do this on your own, and I can’t help you, and I’m not staying here again until you’ve done that. It’s not because I don’t want to, but it’s weird. It wasn’t just once, just one bad dream. It’s intense. You should hear it. I thought I should record it on my phone for you, so you would know.”
I imagine you holding the phone out in the dark with the record button on while I am having a bad dream I can’t wake from.
“Why don’t we talk during the week?”
“Sure.”
You go to the bedroom and after some minutes reappear with a bag.
“Are you certain you want to take your stuff?”
“Yeah.”
You have already taken the keys to this apartment off your key ring and you put them on the hall table. We hug and you leave with your head down. I stand with my back to the door and my eyes closed as I hear the elevator arrive and open its doors for you. And all I can think is that I would never have done this to you, walked out like that. And all I can think then is that maybe that’s what’s wrong with me. You have learned something that I don’t want to know.
There is always that sense of being released when the plane takes off from J.F.K. to [REDACTED]. Every Irish person who gets on that plane knows the feeling; some, like me, also know that it does not last for long. I read a bit and then sleep and then wake up and look around and go to the bathroom and notice that most of the other passengers are sleeping. But I don’t think I will sleep again. I don’t want to read. There are almost four hours still to go.
I doze and wake and then fall into the deepest sleep in the hour before we land, so that I have to be woken and told to put my seat in the upright position.
There is a hotel on St. Stephen’s Green, on the opposite side from the Shelbourne, and I have booked a room there for four nights. I have told no one that I am coming here, except the doctor, a psychiatrist, whom I met years ago, when he helped a friend of mine who was suffering from depression and could not sleep and could not handle anything. The doctor knew my friend’s family. I remember the time he spent with my friend and how he came back again and again. His kindness, his patience, his watchfulness. I remember that I made him tea on a few of those nights, and we spoke about the late Beethoven quartets and he told me which recordings he favored, as my friend lay next door in a darkened room. I remember that he liked jazz and that he found it strange that I did not.
Until I met you, that is. I liked listening to jazz with you.
When I called him from [REDACTED], he remembered that time and mentioned also that he had read a few of my books. He said that he would see me, but it would be best not to do it when I was jet-lagged. He told me to take a few days between landing in [REDACTED] and the appointment. He was living alone now, he said, so he could see me at his house. He gave me the address, and we agreed on the time. When I asked about payment, he told me I could send him some jazz CDs from [REDACTED] or my next book.
In [REDACTED], I keep to the side streets on the first day. I go to the cinema in the afternoon and then up into Rathmines and find a few places to linger, where I think I will meet no one I know. The city seems low-key, almost calm.
There is a new cinema in Smithfield and I go there on the second day and see two films in a row. I find a place to eat nearby. I notice how crowded it becomes, and how loud the voices are, how much laughing and shouting there is. I think about the city I used to know, which was a place that specialized in the half-said thing, the shrug, a place where people looked at one another out of the corner of their eye. All that is over now, or at least in Smithfield it is.
I try not to sleep during the daytime on either of those days, although I want to. I go to Hodges Figgis and Books Upstairs and buy some books. In the evening, I watch the Irish news and some current-affairs programs on the television in my hotel room.
And then on the third day, in the late afternoon, I go to Ranelagh to see the psychiatrist. I am unsure what we will say or do. I am scheduled to go back to [REDACTED] the following day. Maybe there is a drug for what is wrong with me, but I doubt it. I need him to listen to me, or maybe I just need to be able to tell you when I come back that I have done this. Maybe, I think, he will refer me to someone in [REDACTED] whom I can see in the same regular way that you see your analyst, as you call him.
There is a long room that was once two rooms, and it is beautifully furnished. We take our shoes off and sit opposite each other on armchairs toward the back of that room. I realize that he does not need me to talk; he listened carefully to what I said on the phone. He asks me if I have ever been hypnotized, and I say no. There was a guy, I remember, who used to do it on television or in the theatre. I can’t recall his name—Paul something—but I have seen him on television once or twice. I think of hypnosis as a party game, or something that happens in black-and-white films. I did not expect the psychiatrist to suggest it as something he might do with me.
He is, he says, going to use hypnosis. We will both need to be quiet. It would be best if I closed my eyes, he says. I think for a second that I should ask him why he is doing this, or whether he does it all the time, or what it could achieve, but there is something about the calm way that he approaches the task, something deliberate, that makes me feel that it is better not to ask anything. I am still wary and I am sure he notices this, but it does not deter him. I close my eyes.
He leaves silence. I don’t know for how long he leaves silence. And then in a new voice, a voice that is more than a whisper but still has an undertow of whispering, he tells me that he is going to count to ten, and at the word “ten” I will be asleep. I nod and he begins.
His voice has a softness but also an authority. I wonder if he has trained in hypnosis or if he developed his method on his own with other patients. When he gets to “ten,” there is no great change. But I do not move or tell him that I am still awake. I keep my eyes closed, trying to guess how long it will be before he realizes that the spell has not worked, that I am not asleep, that I still know where I am.
“I want you to think about your brother.”
“I’m getting nothing.”
“I want you to take your time.”
I leave my mind empty and my eyes closed. Nothing is happening, but there is a density to the feelings I am having, although the feelings themselves are ordinary ones. I am oddly relaxed and also uneasy. It is like a moment from childhood, or even adulthood, in which I am able to stop worrying about a pressing matter for a moment in the full knowledge that the worry will come back. During this interlude I do not move or speak.
“I want you to think about your brother,” he says again.
I let out a small moan, a sort of cry, but there is no emotion behind it. It is as if I were just doing what he expects me to do.
“Nothing, nothing,” I whisper.
“Follow it now.”
“There’s nothing.”
He leaves silence, leaves space for me to moan and tell him where I am going, but I am not sure where that is. It seems like nowhere in particular. I am moving. I am also awake. He speaks several times more, his voice softer and more insistent. And then I stop him. I need silence now and he leaves silence again. I sigh. I am puzzled. I cannot tell where I am going. I know that I am sitting in an armchair in a house in Ranelagh and that I can open my eyes at any moment. I know that I am going back to [REDACTED] tomorrow.
And then it comes, the hallway, and it is a precise hallway in a house I have known but never lived in. There is lino on the floor and a hall table and a door to a living room, the door slightly ajar. There are stairs at the end of the hallway.
And then there is no “I.” I am a “he.” I am not myself.
“Do you feel sad about your brother?” the psychiatrist asks.
“No. No.”
I am lying on the floor of that hallway. I am dying. I have called an ambulance and left the front door on the latch.
The dying comes as lightness, a growing lightness, as though something were leaving me, and I am letting it leave, and then I am panicking, or almost panicking, and then feeling tired.
“Follow how you feel.”
I signal for him not to speak again. The idea that there is less of me now, and that this lessness will go on and there will be even less of me soon, that this diminishment will continue, is centered in my chest. Something is going down, going out, with a strange and persistent ease. There is no pain, more a mild pressure within the self, or the self that I am now, in this hallway, this room. It is happening within the body as much as within the self that can think or remember. Something is reaching out to death, but it is not death; “death” is too simple a word. It is closer to an emptying out of strain, until all that is left is nothing—not peace or anything like that, just nothing. This is coming gradually and inevitably. I, we, are smiling, or seem to be content and have no concerns. It is almost pleasure, but not exactly pleasure, and not exactly the absence of pain, either. It is nothing, and the nothing comes with no force, just a desire or a need, which seems natural, to allow things to proceed, not to get in their way.
I think then that the experience is ending, and before it does I want to know if our mother is close now, but that comes as a question only. I see her face, but I do not feel her presence. I hold the thought and find myself longing for some completion of it, some further satisfying image, but nothing comes. Instead, there is stillness, and then the sound of the door being pushed open and voices. I can hear their urgency, but it is like urgency in a film that I cannot fully see; it is not real. It is in the background as I am lifted, as my chest is pushed and pummelled, as more voices are raised, as I am moved.
Then there is nothing, really nothing—the nothing that I am and the nothing that is in this room now. Whatever has happened, it has ended. There is nowhere else to go.
I begin to moan again, and then I am quiet and stay quiet until the psychiatrist says softly that he will count to ten again, and when he says the word “ten” I will come back from where I have been and I will be in the room with him.
“I don’t know where you were, but I left you there.”
I do not reply.
“Maybe you got something you can work on.”
“I became him.”
“Did you feel sad?”
“I was him. I wasn’t me.”
He looks at me calmly.
“Maybe the feelings will come now.”
“I became him.”
We do not speak for a while. When I look at my watch I think that I am misreading it. The watch says that two hours have passed. It is almost dark outside. He makes tea and puts on some music. When I find my shoes, I discover that I have trouble putting them on, as if my feet had swelled during the time that I was elsewhere. Eventually, I stand up and prepare to leave. He gives me a number I can call in a few weeks when I have absorbed what happened.
“What did happen?” I ask.
“I don’t know. You are the one who has to do the work.”
He follows me in his stocking feet to the front door. We shake hands, and I leave. I walk through [REDACTED], from Ranelagh to St. Stephen’s Green, passing people on their way home from work.
It is winter in [REDACTED] and I have not replied to your texts. They come more sporadically and say less and less. It is down to “Hey!” or “Hi” and soon, I think, they will stop. When I go to Lincoln Center to see a film or hear music, I look at the list of upcoming concerts and check to see if your name is there. It would not surprise me on one of those nights if I found you standing close by, looking at me.
I wake alone now. I wake early and lie thinking or dozing. In the morning, I carry the full burden of the night’s sleep. It is as if I had been tiring myself out in the darkness, rather than resting. There is no one to tell me if I make a sound as I sleep. I don’t know if I snore, or whimper, or cry out. I like to think that I am silent, but how can I tell? 

