Breadman
By J. Robert Lennon
Of course I’d seen them, his customers, walking past the diner and thrift shop and firehouse clutching their oil-stained kraft-paper sacks—dishevelled and outdoorsy, these people, healthy-looking in an unpremeditated way, their skin unblemished and tanned and their muscles toned. You wouldn’t catch them doing sports, but you might see a pair of them walking down the shoulder of a county highway in big floppy hats; you might encounter a group out in the woods in summer, casually fording a stream in technical sandals. They had money, which they appeared rarely to spend. Their glasses were likely to have hinged clip-on sunshades attached; the books in their satchels came from the public library. These people had no name. Though they were many in our town, they didn’t self-identify; the idea would have seemed silly to them. But the Breadman brought them together in this otherwise nonwhite, working-class neighborhood every Friday morning. It was the only way to get the bread—or, as my wife liked to call it, the Bread. You had to come here, to this little tchotchke shop that shared an entrance with the children’s used-clothing store, where the Breadman set up his table at precisely ten-thirty—or, rather, half an hour before that, if you wanted to get the focaccia, which couldn’t be reserved beforehand, and was bestowed only upon the prompt. But I’m getting ahead of myself. I wouldn’t have come here on my own in a million, billion years. I liked the bread, but not that much. My wife sent me. She had a cold. That’s why this happened.
Of course I was late. Which is to say, ten minutes early. There were thirty people in line ahead of me—men and women, but mostly women. Young to middle-aged, but mostly middle-aged. I am middle-aged. But the Breadman’s people had the comfortable, self-possessed air of travellers from some great distance, who had at last arrived at their ultimate destination. They chatted amiably but unostentatiously. They smiled and laughed. None of them looked at their phones. I did, because I was by myself, and because I lived most of my life at a distance from the things and people I loved. It was also a quality of mine that I invariably became the terminus of any queue I joined. I took a photo of the people ahead of me and uploaded it onto the Internet, along with the caption “Standing in the bread line! What is this, Soviet [REDACTED]?” A couple of minutes later, I deleted it.
Pretty soon, the Breadman arrived with his assistants. I’m trying to say that without particular emphasis, because I don’t like the Breadman and want to downplay his star power. But it was quite an entrance. He pulled up to the curb in a red boxlike van that resembled an oven, to gentle applause from the customers. The panel door rolled open, and a couple of stringy, deeply tanned kids in their twenties—a boy and a girl—hopped out and, wearing serious expressions, unloaded the Breadman’s gear: a folding table, a cash box, a stool, several large hinged wicker baskets, a freestanding wooden sign with “manna” painted on it in a bubbly but somehow pedantic script, and then underneath, in precise all-caps sans serif, “quality breads.” The kids made two trips into the tchotchke shop before the Breadman emerged, and when he did, ambling around the snout of the van while distractedly riffling through pages fixed to a clipboard, a chorus of greetings went up from the crowd.
“Anton! Anton!”
The Breadman looked up as though surprised. He smiled, gave a little wave. “Hello, everybody! Thank you for coming. We’ll be set up in just a moment.”
He was my age, but much better-looking and much more at ease in his own skin. That skin was white, of course, which is not to say pale; it was as if he had been brushed with egg white and baked to an even brown. He wore outsized eyeglasses with black plastic frames over vaguely [REDACTED], bookish features, and his black hair and beard were shaggy and flecked with gray. The gray made him more handsome. His short-sleeved silk shirt was also black, and dusted with flour, as were his tailored jeans. The flour seemed a bit theatrical to me—yes, he was a baker, but were these the clothes he baked in? I suspected it had been sprinkled there intentionally, as a marker of artisanal legitimacy. His feet were bare.
It was unclear to me why the tchotchke shop had been chosen as the pickup point. It was situated far from where the Breadman’s customers were likely to live, in a neighborhood that, while quite safe by city standards, was nevertheless the staging ground for most of our town’s violent crimes. For that matter, I didn’t know why the tchotchke shop had chosen this location in the first place; I never saw anybody shop there. It seemed to be some kind of craftspeople’s collective, though all the merchandise looked the same—faux-primitive renderings of semirural small-town life on coffee mugs, greeting cards, T-shirts, and, in what could only be seen as a deliberate effort to deter potential buyers, mouse pads. In any event, all of this had now been pushed aside, presumably by the assistants, to accommodate the ingress of the Breadman’s customers. Since I was last in line, I spent the first ten minutes of the selling period in the store’s unventilated glass vestibule, enduring the magnified summer heat.
I texted my wife: doors open.
don’t forget the focaccia, she texted back.
that’s a kind of coffee right, I replied.
pls just get it.
Looking at that exchange now—I have never deleted a text—I can see that trust was the issue. She didn’t trust me and never had. Which is not to say that I blame anyone but myself for what was to happen.
I was sweating: marshy pits, swamp ass. The women who had been first in line now edged past me on the way out, keeping as great a distance between us as they could in the elevator-size space, assisted by their giant paper sacks of the Bread, focaccia poking out of the top.
Chuckles and smiles. “Pardon me.”
“Pardon me!”
The line accordioned; I emerged into the tchotchke shop. I picked up, fondled, a coffee mug made to resemble a terra-cotta flowerpot. “ten square miles of happy!” read a bold legend superimposed above the silhouette of our county. To an outsider, the silhouette wouldn’t look like anything much at all: a chip of old latex paint, a torn postage stamp. But an outsider would never buy this mug, except ironically.

Now that I was inside, the air-conditioning cooled the sweat patches on my clothes, and I began to shiver. Luckily, there was coffee here, at the front of the line. It came from the coffee shop down the block, and was contained within a mailbox-size waxed-cardboard tote. A stack of paper cups stood beside it, and an aluminum honor box labelled “$1” with a sticky note. Beside that lay an important thing that I had forgotten about: the clipboard. If you wanted the Bread, you had to sign in—specifically, to print your last name and first initial on the neatly hand-ruled table provided. Then you added your signature and your account number. My wife had explained this process to me, and we had rehearsed it together.
“51093,” I said.
“Say it again. 51093.”
“51093.”
“Just write it down. You’re going to forget it.”
“51093,” I said. “I don’t need to write it down! 51093.”
Of course I remember it now, but I didn’t remember it then. I texted her, account number?, and then, after a moment’s thought, added, _:)

