
Primum Non Nocere
By Antonya Nelson
“Cell-phoning?” her mother would ask her patients when they called, and Jewel found it embarrassing. “Are you cell-phoning?” her mother would demand, waving her family away, so that she could take the call in private. Her patients were what she discouraged her children from labelling “crazy.” It was her job to listen to their problems, and then her duty to never repeat what she knew to anybody else. The town was smallish; you saw everyone at the grocery store, especially on Sunday mornings. It was never a pleasure.
But, finally, Jewel understood. “Are you self-harming?” her mother was saying. Her mother’s patients were “borderline,” and their biggest issue was self-harm, which was typically, although not exclusively, cutting into their arms. Jewel suddenly understood because it was time—she was now in high school, with plenty of self-harmers. And cell-phoners, for that matter, too.
“What you’re going to learn,” her mother had told Jewel more than once, “is that no one ever gets beyond high school. It’s all high school for the rest of your life.” Not true, Jewel knew, yet also true.
Her brother, Robby, had left for college, and Jewel was the only child at home, the only person for her mother and stepfather to puzzle over at the end of the day, their shared project, last chance. She knew that she wasn’t as much trouble for her parents as Robby had been, and was, perhaps, disappointing as a result: she gave them no occasion to rise to. Jewel had never been arrested, never run away, never passed out drunk on the driveway with vomit in her hair. Raising Robby had been what they did. And now he was two states away, of a somewhat legal age.
So Jewel was alone, after school, when the woman came to the door. She was dressed like a homeless person, like a Ren Faire lady, with a bulky floral velvet bag, which she clasped with both bangled arms as if it held a child or a dog, something heavy and unwieldy. A turkey drumstick, Jewel thought, remembering this year’s Ren Faire. The rat-a-pult. The roaring dragon in the local moatlike lake. And the personnel, those people who called themselves the Creative Anachronisms. “Where’s Claudia?” the woman demanded.
“At work.”
Jewel had been watching a scary movie, one her brother had sent her; the knock had literally made her jump, and her heart was still throbbing in places where it wasn’t, like her throat and her eyes. The teen-age girls in the film were out in the woods, and had split up, like idiots, per usual, guaranteeing carnage.
The woman on the porch had emphatic mauve hair, ribbons and beads woven into it, makeup thick on her face, her outfit far too heavy for the [REDACTED] fall weather. Jewel made immediate repairs in her mind, removing layers and ornaments, a habit she’d probably acquired from living in a house that was constantly being rearranged and improved upon. She had Photoshop in her head.
“I’ll wait,” the woman said, and took a seat on the brick step, her skirts hiked, her bag on her lap, arms crossed over it, head tipped sideways. Everything about her said: sigh. 

Jewel retrieved her camera, an old Rolleiflex that her mother and Zachary had given her. She’d have preferred a cell phone—you could hardly find film for this camera or a place to develop it—but they liked old things. Through the front window, she took a picture of the extravagant figure. The window glass was aged and wavy, which added further pleasing poignancy.
A few minutes later, when Jewel looked again, the woman was gone.
“Maybe I’ll just wait in here,” said a voice from the kitchen.
Jewel had left the back door open for Magic, the cat, who’d been missing for four days. If she’d had a cell phone, she could have surreptitiously dialled 911. But the landline was in its little hallway niche, another antique. The whole house was retro, which, although it looked kind of great and had been the subject of a [REDACTED] Magazinespread, was more trouble than you’d imagine. Being stuck in the last century meant tapping into the neighbor’s Wi-Fi, watching DVDs, and having to talk on the phone, tethered by a cord and another cord, in a public place.
A woman had come here once before, looking for Jewel’s mother. A sobbing woman whose interest was angry and fraught, a blue vein pulsing at her temple. Robby had still been home then. He’d been the one to invite the woman in and sit with her while they waited for their mother and Zachary to come home. This woman had been having an affair with Zachary and he’d broken it off. “What have I got to lose?” she’d asked the teen-age Robby. “I want him to suffer.” The woman had been braced for fireworks, for Claudia to fly into a rage, for Zachary to be punished. Instead, Claudia had listened boredly to the tale—the seduction, the rendezvous in Zachary’s office—and said, finally, “I know my husband better than you do. This issue predates you. It will postdate you. It isn’t personal; it’s an addiction. Simple as that. He’s merely fallen off the wagon. Either he’ll get back on or he won’t. It’s not up to me, or to you—it’s up to him. What do you think, Zachary?” Everybody had turned in his direction. And Zachary had nodded, seeming just as sad for himself as his wife was.
“Mom’s a badass,” Robby had said later, when he and Jewel were debriefing. Her patients loved her for that unconventional understanding. She stood up for them; she visited their homes and talked to their problematic relatives, went to the store with them, walked them along the river, allowed them to bring their pets to their therapy sessions. She came to her children’s defense, too, with teachers or friends or the parents of those friends. She was brutally honest, blunt. She had never dressed up the fact that their real father, who was a therapist in Santa Fe, could not be trusted with them. His depression was extreme, and he was old, the father to four other, much older children, who were now his caregivers. Claudia had left him when Robby and Jewel were young, because he was too unpredictable—suicidal and perhaps delusional.
A few years ago, when Robby had accused their mother of keeping their father from them, Claudia had responded by telling him to go visit. “By all means,” she’d said, “go right ahead. Take the car, take your sister. Here’s a credit card. Check into a hotel. I encourage you to get to know him.” She was sincere in this gesture. By not withholding anything, she became powerful. By throwing out car keys and credit cards and permission, she insured that they wouldn’t follow through. But it wasn’t a plan, on her part, to outfox them. Had they gone, it would have turned out as she predicted: the man was old and feeble, with children who’d compelled his attention long before Robby and Jewel were born. He was done with fatherhood now; he needed the other side of the equation, the one in which his children owed him, would care for him, would provide cute infants to be his simple objects of affection. He did not need teen-agers.
Claudia could leave a person speechless, defused. “Wow,” people might respond.
The thought that Zachary might have taken up with the woman who was in the kitchen now was surprising to Jewel. At least that other woman had been sexy, a blond rock-climbing instructor, pretty and tanned, earnest. This one was heavy: in heft, in mood, in wardrobe. Also hidden—her hair was dyed, her face was made up, her clothing was layered. It was difficult to imagine Zachary finding her appealing. He was a physical therapist, an athlete; he worked with the body, and he appreciated the natural, the muscled, the naked and undisguised. He had turned his habit of soliciting physical intimacy into a job. Or so Jewel had been led to believe. She liked Zachary; she didn’t want to hear that he’d once again fallen off the sex-addiction wagon. And if he had fallen off? Well, this woman was a disappointing temptress.
“Her house is decorated just like her office,” the woman said, waving her hand to both allude to it and dismiss it. “All cool crap from back when. Although I do love that turquoise leather chaise,” she acknowledged, as an afterthought.
So: not Zachary’s scorned girlfriend, after all, but Claudia’s patient. The woman was taking in the riot of kitchen implements that filled the room, the collection of cake plates and colorful tins, the multiple sets of nesting cannisters and Mason jars and Fiesta ware, the light fixtures made of teacups, the shrinelike mosaic of broken china above the restaurant stove, a centerpiece of a sort, a hearth. There was always something new to see here, some project just completed, a product of Claudia’s after-hours decorating, redecorating hobby. The basement was filled with toys and tools and books and appliances and crockery and frames and knickknacks, waiting to be remade into another striking display. As a child, Jewel had been allowed to draw on the kitchen walls. Over by the cat-food bowls, her mother had affixed an oval embroidery hoop around the last remaining drawing, Jewel’s actual baby teeth dotting the frame, along with some Scrabble tiles that spelled her name. The picture was of Magic eating his food. It wasn’t a bad likeness, for a four-year-old; her mother had left it there because of the little pink asterisk that was Magic’s anus, Jewel’s childish candor.
The woman said, “I found this beautiful sweater? And I bought it, even though it was way out of my price range, and I gave it to her. She never wore it once. Cashmere! With Bakelite buttons!”
“What color?” Jewel asked.
“Ivory.”
“With watering-can buttons? That one? She loves that sweater.” It wasn’t even a lie—Claudia did love that sweater. But it was difficult to find gifts for her—Jewel could sympathize with that. She’d more than once been hamstrung and frustrated, her gifts given and then unused—or traded in at a resale shop. Claudia did that regularly, afflicted as she was by zero nostalgia or sentimentality. Those emotions, she always argued, were dishonest. There were no halcyon days of yore, and it was fruitless to believe that there were.
“Your mother’s a tease,” the woman said, scowling at Jewel. “She shouldn’t be like that. She pretends to be your friend, to give a shit, and then? Totally blows you off. Doesn’t wear your sweater, hardly even says thanks. I gave her a plant thing with a light in it, too, and she never used it. Is your whole house like this?”
“Sort of,” Jewel said.
“Does it make you claustrophobic?”
“There’s always something to look at.” 
Jewel had been able to keep her bedroom free of the intensely curated clutter. But the rest of the house was chock-full, evidence of Claudia’s impeccable eye, her energy for seeking out these objects and then making them functional. Jewel knew what kind of planter lamp the stranger was describing; there was a collection of them in Zachary’s workshop. His role in her mother’s obsession was maintenance—scavenging, cleaning, restocking, repairing. She was insatiable, Jewel’s mother. On weekends, she and Zachary went to garage and estate sales; they sat head to head scrolling through eBay and Craigslist offerings. They drove states away if the deal was a good one, Jewel often along in the back seat, sitting beside a green kitchen sink the size of a horse tank, or a pink hair-drying chair, or a bundle of high-quality barkcloth destined to become drapes or a swing skirt.
The phone rang. This would be Kenny, from Latin class, the senior who’d become inexplicably attached to Jewel, against her will. At school, he made a point of seeking her out between classes. It was humiliating. It made her blush every time. And he called every day at four to ask her out. His family was very wealthy, which explained his confidence. “Entitlement” was her mother’s word for it. She had nicknamed Kenny the Gentleman Caller.
“You gonna get that?” the woman asked.
“It’s just this guy,” Jewel said. “He wants to take me on an airplane ride or something.”
Her mother and stepfather knew about Kenny, who desired Jewel, but they didn’t know about Anthony, whom Jewel desired. Brooding, surly, awkward Anthony, who was tall and hunched, his blond fro waving atop his skinny body like dandelion fluff, who had no friends, who skulked along ahead of her after school to his house down the street. She’d known of Anthony for years, but only recently had she begun to daydream about him, to seek out first in a crowd that specific soft yellow head of hair.
“Tell him to fuck off,” the woman suggested. “Block his number.”
“Hey, Jewel,” Kenny said on the answering machine. “Just checking in. How’s my precious Jewel?” Kenny claimed that his name, in Latin, meant handsome, and that Jewel’s, of course, meant jewel. “Catch you tomorrow,” he finished. “_Ad astra per aspera! _”
“He doesn’t sound so bad, but what’s that ass-ass-ass stuff?”
“It’s Latin for something about failure, I think.”
“Does he think speaking Latin is sexy?”
Jewel shrugged; nothing about Kenny was sexy to her.
“When does Claudia get home usually?”
“Six-forty-five. After yoga.”
“Huh. How about your brothers?”
“Robby? He’s in [REDACTED].”
“And the other one?”
Jewel didn’t want to anger the woman by informing her that there was no other brother. But there was no other brother. “What do you mean?” she said carefully.
“From the picture, on her desk. All y’all on the front porch with the cat?”
Jewel knew the photograph. “One guy is Robby, my brother. The other is Zachary. My stepfather.” Zachary was thirty-three, nine years younger than her mother, and did, it was true, look considerably younger. He smiled a lot and wore flip-flops and jeans and old concert T-shirts. His facial hair was sparser than eighteen-year-old Robby’s. Or perhaps it was because he didn’t involve himself with unpleasantness—didn’t follow the news or read books, didn’t pick fights or get defensive, didn’t rock the boat. That could make you seem younger than you were.
“_Step_father?” The woman laughed, and Jewel felt a strange protective urge flare up for her mother. “More like boy toy. You know what they say: after forty you can have either a great butt or a great face, but not both.”
“What does that mean?”
“Your mom’s too skinny, that’s what it means. Her face is haggard,” she said knowingly.
“I don’t think so,” Jewel said, although most of the time she was herself uneasy with her mother’s thinness; it seemed competitive. Her mother wore boys’ jeans, the same size as skinny Robby’s; her breasts were little pouches that disappeared when she stretched her arms overhead.
“You look just like her,” the woman said, accusingly. In usual circumstances, Jewel knew this to be a compliment, but this time saying “Thank you” felt wrong. “You’re going to be prettier than I am,” her mother had once told her. “When we walk together, the men look at you now, instead of me.” Claudia believed that airing the feelings you might be tempted to keep secret was the way not to be sabotaged by them. She had explained this to Jewel and Robby in the aftermath of Zachary’s mistress’s visit. No need for Zachary to hide the fact that he was recovering. He needed to own and then conquer his issues. He was only as sick as his secrets, she’d said, using her fingers to make quotation marks in the air. She believed in these statements, but they were not original to her, and therefore she had to scrupulously acknowledge that.
Jewel suspected that this stranger in the house was wearing long sleeves because there were scars on her arms. Jewel noticed all sorts of self-harmers these days, in stores and at school, their scars either hidden or flagrantly displayed, those white lines, notched up the arms. Was it healthy to show them? A secret those girls or women no longer felt like keeping? Or was it hostile? In either case, it frightened Jewel.
The woman was on the move now, passing Jewel en route to the dining room, wandering around the table, admiring the walls and windows, the ceramic birds and photomontages, the fanned display of fashion ads from the forties, the silver oyster forks, the snuff spoons from [REDACTED], the plates sporting seventies cartoons, the cloth napkins, each an embroidered object unique to a family member or close friend who often dined at this table, rolled into an equally unique and thoughtful napkin ring. All of this she circled and registered, murmuring to herself, nodding, not touching anything but obviously taking it in, and not with pleasure. More like evidence in a case she was building. Mm-hmm, ah-ha! Just as I suspected! Jewel was afraid to interrupt with any kind of word or gesture, afraid the woman would react like a startled animal, leap and claw before realizing that the motion was innocent. Jewel held a finger to her upper lip to stifle a sneeze.
“I need to use the ladies’,” the woman said, heading off down the hallway. She went right in and slammed the door, clicked the lock. Jewel rushed to the mustard-yellow telephone, lifted the heavy receiver, and rotary-dialled her stepfather’s office. (Her mother’s phone always went straight to voice mail.) She said to the receptionist, “Tell Zachary to come home! It’s an emergency!,” and hung up.
The bathroom door didn’t unlock for an irritatingly large number of minutes, and, when it did, the woman exited with her hair refreshed and her lipstick reapplied. She’d also removed an under-layer of her outfit, so that her arms and legs were exposed, fleshy and very tattooed. Or not just tattooed but textured, as if objects had been applied to the skin, or under it, actually: a zipper there on her upper arm, elbow to shoulder, a ring of what looked like [REDACTED]’s on her calf, decorated with drawings on the flesh—flowers, vines, slashes, and drops representing wind and rain. Jewel had seen piercings before—eyebrows, noses, tongues, navels, and wide round plugs in earlobes—and she’d seen tattoos, full sleeves and neck and facial markings, but this singular oddity, the combination of purposeful bumpiness and color, was new to her. She had an urge to run her fingers over the woman’s skin, to see how that zipper felt, or to touch the tiny dots painted bright red on her leg, holly berries in a kind of perverse snaky wreath. And what else was there, in the places Jewel could not see? 
“Even the baño has the whole vintage thing going on,” the woman said. She’d probably used Claudia’s ivory hairbrush. Maybe she’d dipped all the toothbrushes in the toilet or scratched something profane on the wallpaper. There was no telling what she’d been up to in there. One thing Jewel knew: no pills. Those were kept under lock and key in the kitchen, in an antique bank box in the Everything Drawer. As if reading her mind, the woman asked if there was alcohol available.
Mesmerized by the tattoos, Jewel motioned toward the mint-green pie cabinet behind her. Zachary had fitted it out as a wet bar, complete with hanging stemware and hooks for old-fashioned tools: zester, muddler, strainer. An aluminum Hamm’s beer cooler full of high-end beer. “Your tats are awe—,” she was saying when Zachary arrived, having run home, it seemed, from his massage practice, just three blocks away. The woman’s reaction to his appearance was to calmly draw out of her bag a knife.
The knife was similar to one in their own block of knives, among the few tools in the house that were not vintage in any way. Zachary was a cook; his talents were with his hands: massage, gardening, food preparation. He was, his older wife always said, the perfect wife. Because, she would add, he also enjoyed sex. Unlike so many wives.
What would she not say, in the name of telling the truth?
Although it was a large knife, it was for cheese, specifically, its blade both delicately serrated and aerated to create less friction in such a thick substance. Jewel had been at the mall with Zachary when he’d bought it. The salesman had sliced through potatoes and cheese and tomatoes and plastic and rubber with both this knife and a traditional knife, to illustrate the superior ease and versatility of this new model. Zachary had purchased it, but then allowed Jewel to wrap it up and give it to him for Christmas, the perfect gift. She and Zachary got along pretty well. At this moment, she halfway wished she hadn’t phoned him. Minus the knife, the scene might have played out without real consequence.
“And here’s the trophy husband!” the woman crowed.
Zachary took in the tableau with his usual slacker calm. Today’s T-shirt said “Psycho Killer Qu’est-ce Que C’est,” and featured a light-bulb-shaped head wearing sunglasses. Jewel’s favorite of his shirts was one for his own former band, the Shit-Kicking Kitty Cats, four happy-go-lucky guys with long hair—heartthrobs. “What up, sweetheart?” he asked Jewel, showing his hands to the woman.
“She wants to see Mom.”
“She could see Mom at her office.”
“You don’t have to talk about me in the third person,” the woman said. “I already saw Mom in her office, and this is what happened after that. Bitch.”
“I’m sorry, but that knife is making me scared,” Jewel said. “I wish you would put it away. I wish she would put it away,” she added, turning to Zachary.
“I agree,” he said. He’d crossed his arms over his T-shirt. “We come in peace,” he added. “Hey, is that my knife?”
“Call her up and get her here,” the woman said. “I’m not waiting till six-fucking-forty-five.” She dropped her bulky bag and, still holding the knife, arranged herself at the head of the table, the place where Claudia usually sat. “You call,” she said to Zachary, and, to Jewel, “You get me a beer.”
Upon receiving the green bottle, the woman raised her heel to the edge of the chair, exposing her bare thigh, her own glance down leading Jewel’s. She was not wearing underpants, Jewel noted, briefly nauseated. “This is the newest,” the woman said. The flesh was white and looked tender, bright-orange stitches surrounding yet another bump, this one the size and shape of a bullet. The tattoo above it was of a pistol, life-size, the silvery metallic hue of a smoldering charcoal briquette, the bullet heading toward her nude crotch. “I’m ambidextrous,” the woman said, as if that explained anything that Jewel wished to have explained. “I wanted to be a doctor, a surgeon, specifically, but they wouldn’t let me stay in med school, the bastards.” Abruptly, she locked her legs together, as if Jewel were snooping. “My [REDACTED] is a hundred and forty-four. Also, I make all my own clothes. I’m very talented with a needle and thread.”
Meanwhile, Zachary stood at the phone spinning his finger impatiently as he listened to Claudia’s lengthy instructions for reaching her, her breathy overenunciation of her name and credentials, the phone tree of co-counsellors, 911, all of it designed to prevent disaster. And yet here sat disaster at the dinner table. Wearing no underwear.
“Claud, you should come on home as soon as you get this,” Zachary was saying. “We’re fine, but get here asap, ’K.?”
“She’ll check at ten till,” Jewel told the woman. All her life, she’d been aware of the therapeutic clock.
“Wonder who she’s making cry now?” the woman replied.
Zachary played Kenny’s message, sending Jewel a smile. “He’s pretty persistent, your Gentleman Caller.”
The woman said to Jewel, “You know what? I changed my mind. I agree with you—he sounds like a dick. You drink, too,” she commanded Zachary, who didn’t seem upset by the idea. He held up a bottle toward Jewel, offering, a first.
The woman’s name was Joy, she told them, expressing no interest in learning their names. To her, they were Claudia’s kid and Claudia’s husband. “Claudia’s the reason I can drink. She took me off those meds. Everybody else thought I was a manic-depressive—a depressed maniac! All the way back to high school—that’s like decades. The only thing every other a-hole could think to do was tranquillize me, turn me into a zombie. Now I can drink. Yay, Dr. Claudia,” she added, holding her beer bottle up, waiting for them to toast with her. “I brought other knives, too,” she added, not wanting them to lose sight of her menace. “I came by last night but all your doors were locked.”
Horror swept through Jewel. Her bedroom window had been open, for Magic; all Joy would have had to do was reach in, roll the handle, and then climb right through. Robby had come and gone from his room that way many a time. Jewel had sat at her open window for a long while last night, calling pleadingly for Magic, who’d never stayed away so many days in a row. “He’s old,” her mother had told her, matter-of-factly. “Cats go off to die when they’re old.” Magic’s twin brother, Wizard, Robby’s cat, had been run over by a car early on. Bad luck. Magic was more of a homebody. Jewel couldn’t remember a time without him—he and Wizard had been given to her and Robby as kittens, when they’d had to move so abruptly away from Santa Fe. She wasn’t ready for Magic to go off and die, even if he felt that it was for the best. Her real father had also wanted to go away and die; he’d checked into a hotel to save his wife and small children the mess. Yet he’d missed, and survived. And then paid for the mess.
Zachary was agreeing with Joy about Claudia’s fickleness, nodding in the way of the good cop, keeping things chill. “Does she ever become friends with people when they get out of therapy? When they get better? That’s not normal, I get it, but she’s not normal,” Joy said. Zachary looked to Jewel; they both knew that Claudia would never befriend her patients. Be an invested and attentive therapist, yes; take their calls in the middle of the night, rush to their side and embrace them, of course; but invite them over for dinner? Never. Claudia didn’t even socialize with her colleagues at the practice; they were simply grateful that she wished to treat the highly difficult patients she preferred. And every year she attended funerals, plural. Suicides. It was a tragic demographic, borderlines, wobbling on the edge.
“I thought she liked me!” Joy said. “I told her everything! And she—”
“Her caseload is really heavy,” Zachary said. “I’m sure it wasn’t personal.”
“Excuse me,” Joy spat at him. “Are you stupid? It was totally personal. I’m a person! Who trusted another person! Who fucked me over.” And now she was in tears. Finally.
“I guess it is personal,” Zachary backpedalled. Jewel could tell that he wanted to rush over and massage Joy’s shoulders, demonstrate his true talents. “But I don’t think Claudia meant to hurt you.”
They heard the car door slam. And then they heard another car door slam.
“Not cool,” Claudia said to Joy. Her face was icy, furious, her lips two flat lines. With her was a man, nobody Jewel had ever seen before, his gray hair windblown, his eyeglasses repaired with white tape at the bridge, his worn running shoes untied. “This is [REDACTED],” Claudia said. “I’m giving him a ride.”
“Dr. [REDACTED],” the man interjected, and held out a slightly trembling hand to Zachary.
“Oh, great,” Joy said. “You brought backup. Another person who doesn’t know shit—”
“He’s not ‘backup,’ ” Claudia said. “I do not need ‘backup.’ This is unacceptable, Joy. Absolutely unacceptable.” Jewel’s mother was doing three things at once, as usual, removing from the table Jewel’s beer and Joy’s cheese knife, running her hand over the condensation on the wood, and giving Zachary a what-the-fuck glance, as if this situation were of his making, and, as always, she was the one who had to fix everything.
“You handed me off to some new chick, somebody who doesn’t know shit. She was reading papers about me, like she was a graduate student or something!”
“And the only thing you could think to do was force the issue? Come to my home?”
“She has other knives, Mom. In her bag there. Maybe we should call the—”
“What do you mean ‘other knives’?”
“More than the cheese one!”
“That was hers?” she said to Zachary. “Not ours?” He raised his hands in bafflement. “Coming here is one thing, but with weapons? Jesus Christ.” She wiped the table with a dish towel, exasperated but not afraid. Inconvenienced. There would probably be extra paperwork, her least favorite activity. Plus, she was missing yoga.
Dr. [REDACTED] was taking in the room, rocking on his feet, scanning methodically from ceiling to floor, his hands on his hips, his glasses reflecting the room’s busy contents.
“Well, does it look like I’m doing well?” Joy spun on the chair to give Zachary and Claudia a peek at her bullet and gun, perhaps also her lack of underpants. “Huh? How well does that look, to you?”
“Joy,” Claudia said, sighing. “Come on. Take a load off, [REDACTED].” She touched his elbow, pausing a moment herself to close her eyes and focus on her breathing. It was a familiar ritual, one she’d suggested to her family time and again when someone was on the verge of overreacting. This was in service of mindfulness, a word that Jewel would be happy never to hear again.
“That’s a crazy good gun,” Zachary said, swallowing. “I mean, big ups.” He leaned back to lift his psycho-killer shirt and show Joy his tattoos. Four Lotería cards: scorpion, sun, moon, pierced bloody heart. He lowered his chin to look down at his chest. “I could use a touch-up on the claws and the sun rays.”
Claudia clapped her hands and shook the hair out of her eyes. She sat down in Robby’s place, across from Jewel, checking her watch. “Here are your choices,” she began. That was another word Jewel could do without.
“I thought you liked me,” Joy said, wiping at her leaking face. “You know me better than anyone else, ever.”
The scene reminded Jewel of ones with Robby, her mother calmly reprimanding, her brother guiltily miserable. “Why did you want to hurt my mom?” she asked Joy.
“Oh, she won’t hurt anyone but herself,” Claudia said. “Isn’t that right?”
“Oh, yeah? What about my first ‘episode’? With my mom?” Joy turned to Jewel. “All of a sudden I was standing over her bed in the middle of the night.”
“Joy,” Claudia said, “this is so not appr—”
“You’re, what, fourteen?” Joy asked, ignoring Jewel’s mother. “Fifteen? I was fifteen then, holding a butcher knife. I was just so angry. I don’t know what would have happened if she hadn’t woken up. But that’s where it started, me and all the rest of the bullshit. Claudia here keeps telling me I don’t really want to hurt others, but I don’t know. I think maybe I was ready to do something to my mom. I just wanted to . . .” One of her lower eyelids was twitching frenetically.
“A cry for help?” Dr. [REDACTED] asked. “I mean, isn’t that what it sounds like?” he added deferentially, to Claudia. Jewel realized then that he wasn’t her mother’s colleague, most definitely not “backup,” but another of her patients. Teetering there on his own borderline.
“Maybe,” Jewel said, “maybe, like, teach her a lesson?”
Joy nodded gratefully. “Exactly.”
Claudia gave Jewel a long level look that made her blush and then glance away first, as if there’d been a contest.
“I’m sorry,” Zachary said, that one-size-fits-all sentiment. He was in the business of relaxing people, and his voice was part of it. He wasn’t really attending, but Jewel was. For her, it wasn’t so hard to see what Joy was seeing, what she might be recalling, herself as a girl, new to high school, figuring out how many things she didn’t really have a choice about—a process that started with the body, its siege of awful and unseemly eruptions, then kept on, relentlessly, everywhere else, invisible, insidious. And so there might be a nocturnal journey to the knife block and then to her mother’s bedroom. Not difficult at all to imagine a desire to put an end to the onslaught of alarming information about what could not be stopped. “What, you want to be the only girl in history without pubic hair or breasts?” Rhetorical questions—her mother thrived on those.
“What do you mean, teach her a lesson?” Claudia asked calmly, still staring at Jewel.
Most mothers weren’t like Claudia, so Jewel doubted that Joy’s resembled hers. Nevertheless. Maybe all mothers existed in order to torment their daughters with news of the future. Hadn’t Jewel felt that often enough? And retreated to her room, to hide behind a closed door with her dear old cat? That cat, Magic, who, by the way, came home the day after Joy’s visit, and who, it turned out, wouldn’t go off to hide and die for another few years yet, long after Joy had ceased to be Claudia’s patient. “Poor thing,” Claudia would always say, telling the story. “When she came back to therapy, we had to have a third party present. Talk about awkward.” And she would laugh and roll her eyes. No, Joy was nothing special to Claudia.
“Tell me, Jewel,” Claudia went on. “I want to know.”
But the lesson wasn’t about taking a knife to her mother’s room. No, the only way to truly hurt her mother, Jewel saw now, was to hurt herself. To turn the blade, for example, a hundred and eighty degrees. Somehow it had become time for Jewel to understand that, too. 

