
Reverend
By Tim Parks
After his mother died, Thomas started thinking about his father. All too frequently, while she was dying, there had been talk of her going to meet him in [REDACTED], returning to the arms of her husband of thirty-two years, who had died thirty-two years before she did. This would be bliss.
Thomas did not believe in such things, of course, though it was hard not to try to imagine them, if only to savor the impossibility of the idea: the two insubstantial souls greeting each other in the ether, the airy embrace. She had been ninety at death, he sixty. There would be some adjustment for that, presumably, in Heaven. The madness of it confirmed one’s skepticism.
But even assuming that she had gone to meet him, who was he? Who was he now? Who was he then? Who was my father? Thomas thought. And why was he asking himself these questions now? That wasn’t clear. They weren’t exactly urgent. On the other hand, they weren’t going away. He didn’t feel like doing research, putting his father’s name into Google or delving into archives. He could have looked at his father’s old sermon notes. Thomas’s sister had taken some papers when their mother’s house was sold, after the funeral. The notes would have told him something, reminded him of his father’s handwriting, of the way the man thought. But he didn’t want to do that. The thought of his father’s sermons aroused unpleasant emotions. It was difficult to put his finger on the reason. A sense of embarrassment and irritation. What he wanted, rather, was to assemble a picture of his father as he, Thomas, remembered him. Who was he for me? A son should be able to say what his father was for him. What part of my personality do I owe him? How does this man still simmer in my life? If he does.
Occasionally, Thomas would tell himself that he regretted not having asked his mother more about his father while she was alive. That would surely have been the moment to undertake this reappraisal. Now all his mother’s memories of his father had died with her. He’d never be able to access them. Yet he didn’t actually regret not asking her. The truth was that for all this chatter about her going to meet him in the beyond, for all her occasional tears when Father was mentioned, Thomas’s mother had spoken very little of his father. Very little. Perhaps the only time his name could reliably be expected to come up was when Thomas and his mother argued over something, usually something of a religious or political nature. Thomas could be provocative, stubborn, and his mother never wanted to lose an argument about things that mattered. Then, between exasperation and amusement, she would say, “You’re just like your father, Thomas. He loved to play devil’s advocate, too!”
How was this possible? His father had been a clergyman. Thomas couldn’t remember the man expressing a single idea that went against orthodox Christianity. How could Mother remember him playing devil’s advocate? Presumably, in their own private relationship, Father had liked to get her riled, flustered, indignant. And this had been partly, though perhaps not altogether, in fun. “He loved to split hairs, just like you,” Thomas’s mother said, shaking her gray head. She did not say which hairs Father had split, and Thomas had not asked her to expand.
Why hadn’t Thomas questioned her reticence during her lifetime? It was not that he suspected that there was some secret being hidden from him. It was more as though she’d wanted to keep the man to herself. Perhaps she had been afraid that speaking of Father to Thomas would diminish him. Because Father was so devout and Thomas such a doubter. Speaking about him might have given her son a chance to make some disparaging remark, or simply to show once again that he didn’t believe. To rock the boat. That was a favorite expression of Father’s: Don’t rock the boat! In any event, she had kept whatever there was between them in her heart, to the end. In her bedroom, there was a photo of Thomas’s father as a young man, and on the glass frame below his face she had placed a small square of white paper with a few lines of religious poetry:
Death hides—
But it cannot divide.
Thou art but on
Christ’s
Other side.
Thou with Christ
And Christ with me
And so together
Still are we.
Thomas respected this carefully preserved bereavement. He didn’t investigate. He knew that when the cancer had gone to his father’s brain he had accused his mother of all kinds of unpleasant things and that this had upset her greatly. Never for one moment did Thomas imagine that there was any truth in those accusations. It was just that the cancer had gone to Dad’s head. And who does one accuse, when accusing, if not one’s wife of thirty years? Thomas knew plenty about that. It even occurred to him that he was thinking about his father now because, in separating from his own wife, he had undone, as it were, the last thing that his father had done as a clergyman, when he’d married them, Thomas and his wife, holding their ringed hands one above the other and declaring, “Those whom God hath joined together, let no man put asunder.” Recently, in preparation for the divorce, Thomas had had to dig out the marriage certificate with Father’s signature on it. It seemed odd to think that his father’s hand had pressed on that very paper. Thirty-two years ago. His handwriting was scratched and sharp, but not without a certain angular elegance. Thomas examined the certificate for a few minutes, looking at his own signature, his wife’s, his father’s, then put it in an envelope with the other papers, ready for his divorce.
Whore. That was it. Just once his mother had talked about it. They had been speaking about her cancer, he remembered. She was lucky, she said, because hers hadn’t gone to her head. Like poor Dad’s. Then she burst into tears and told Thomas that, in his madness before he died, Father had said all kinds of awful things; he had called her a whore. Shocked, Thomas immediately reassured his mother that it had been the disease speaking. She knew that. In his right mind Dad would never have said such a thing. Later, Thomas realized that she had told him this in order to receive his reassurance before dying herself. Once reassured, she didn’t tell him anything else. 

Edward Sanders was born in [REDACTED], on the longest day of the year, in 1920. He’d had two sisters, one definitely younger. Perhaps both had been younger. Thomas could have asked his own brother or sister about this—they were older than him, they might know—but he didn’t want his brother and sister to know that he was thinking about his father. Why not? He didn’t want to pool their collective memories. He didn’t want to have to adjust his views in the light of their knowledge. Vaguely he was aware that Mother had spoken of Father’s being fond of Doris, the youngest sister. But, so far as he could recall, Father had never spoken of her. He had never spoken of his mother, either. All Thomas remembered, from perhaps two visits when he was very small, was a tiny old woman with white wispy hair and a hooked nose.
Was his father deliberately enigmatic? Edward Sanders had talked once of his father, Thomas’s grandfather. They were on holiday in South Devon, and Father had wanted to visit Plymouth Sound, because his father’s ship had been mothballed there during the Great Depression. Thomas’s grandfather had been a ship’s captain, and Father had spent an unemployed summer with him on that ship, waiting for world commerce to start moving again. It must have been a happy time for him, because he got quite excited as they walked along the shore, pointing out where the ship had been, the landing stage they’d rowed to when they went ashore.
Thomas had the impression that his father had wanted to become a seaman, too, but had been held back by his poor eyesight. His eyesight was so poor that neither the Army nor the Navy had accepted him. He couldn’t even get a driver’s license. So while his own hero father had fought submarines in the Atlantic, he’d worked in Cammell Laird shipyard, doing technical drawings for marine engines. One of the happiest stories Father liked to tell was about how he was admired for his ability to hit rats with a paperweight in the shipyard workshops. It was strange to think that he couldn’t see well enough to join the Navy or drive a car but was perfectly capable of drawing engines and hitting rats with paperweights.
Father had never spoken of his reasons for becoming a clergyman. But Thomas did know that his father and mother had initially planned to be missionaries. They had met at missionary training college. They had wanted an adventurous life. It was 1948; they’d just lived through a war, but only on the edge of the action. She had been bombed in [REDACTED], he in [REDACTED]. Her father had forbidden her to join the Wrens. His father had been disappointed that his son couldn’t enlist. Now they would fight the good fight another way.
Thomas’s parents’ marriage, he realized now, was based on a religious mission. They were partners in a task: to make the world a better place by converting people to the faith. That was the logic of their being together. If either of them lost this faith, their marriage would be lost with it. Wouldn’t it? Their life was a life in the Church, for the Church, though, for reasons that were never explained, they hadn’t in the end become missionaries. Perhaps having produced children made them less eligible. The Church didn’t want to be responsible for little white children in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED]. Maybe we children blocked Father’s career, Thomas thought. We frustrated his ambitions. First the eyesight problem, then his children. He remembered the man’s impatience. His father had no time for chatter. Sometimes he barely took time to eat. He was impatient with Mother, too, impatient to be doing. But doing what? Winning souls for Christ. How strange. And how disappointing for him, then, to have failed first and foremost with two of the three souls under his nose, Thomas and his older brother.
He took our salvation for granted, Thomas thought.
Once he had decided to make the effort, it didn’t take Thomas long to gather these thoughts and type them on his computer. If only because there were so few. Thomas was living in a small flat now, away from his wife, whom he had left some time ago. Away from his children, who were grown up now. They no longer needed him for protection. Only for financial support. Yet he did not feel as though he had really got away. It was as if he had left home to climb a mountain and was now stuck on top of it, bivouacked above the tree line, free, but freezing, with no way forward. Thomas was perplexed. His wife was down in the warm pastures waiting for him. So it seemed. But he wouldn’t go back. 
There were memories of infancy and memories of adolescence. There were two or three incidents that seemed important. Watershed moments. During Thomas’s early childhood, his father had seemed busy and happy. He preached and led meetings. First in Manchester, then in Blackpool. He was charismatic and embattled. He liked a fight. His voice was vibrant. He made jokes. He was a leader. People came to him for advice. At breakfast and lunch and dinner he said grace. In the evening, before bed, he said prayers. They were fervent, earnest prayers, the prayers of someone going to Heaven, or to Hell. He wasn’t interested in empty, formal religion. He liked his lamb and his roast beef, his plum pie and his custard. But he was always impatient to be up and doing again. Thomas distinctly remembered his father thrusting his chair back and wiping gravy from his mouth with a white napkin. People said “serviette” then. His father had had a rather slack mouth, poor teeth, but he was always clean-shaven. He was always ready to be meeting people. To be saving their souls. Thomas could actually see the gravy stain on the crumpled napkin as his father hurried off.
But he couldn’t see his father’s face. Thomas tried and tried, but he couldn’t quite see it. In the small apartment he lived in now, he kept no photos of the past. He had no family heirlooms. What had Father looked like? A thin handsome nose, definitely; sandy hair, but receding; gray-green eyes, very thick spectacles. Father was endlessly cleaning his spectacles, usually with a huge white handkerchief. Thomas could see the vigorous action of the hands rubbing the lenses with the cloth. But he couldn’t put eyes and nose together. He couldn’t remember looking into those eyes, or them looking into his. The handkerchief was in the way.
Father’s body was easier. Thomas remembered an aura of vulnerability, at once wiry and hunched, tense. But not intimidated. He didn’t keep fit, but rode a bike to visit parishioners. At the church, they hated him, because he had banned the annual crowning of the May Queen. It was paganism, he said; it had nothing to do with Our Lord Jesus Christ and his message of joy and salvation. He hadn’t become a clergyman to perpetuate pagan rituals and crown pretty girls.
Once, Father took Thomas to a holiday camp with some boys from a reform school. That was frightening. They were wild. They jumped off swings in motion to see who could leap the farthest. They yelled swearwords and made rude gestures. Some of them had been sent to the school for robbery or violence. Father didn’t seem to have any trouble talking to these boys or saving their souls. Perhaps he felt that it was missionary work. He felt fulfilled. If Thomas had sworn or made those gestures, Dad would have been furious.
It was also scary when Father talked about death and burials. There was a story about a coffin that floated in the muddy water after a storm and another that had to be forced down into the grave, because it was too long. The corpse had been a giant. In the end, Dad and the sexton had had to stand on the coffin to get it underground and even then they buried it at a forty-five-degree angle. It seemed strange to Thomas that his father could laugh at death. It seemed strange when he changed from his ordinary clothes into his robes, the long black cassock and starched white surplice, when he raised his arms outward and upward at the end of the blessing, so that he was like an angel. “May the Lord bless you and keep you!” His voice rang around the brown stones of the church. “May the Lord cause his face to shine upon you!” Later, the same man would chase Thomas and his brother back to bed if they crept down the stairs to spy on guests. “Scalawags!” he yelled. Sometimes he got seriously angry with Thomas’s brother and spanked him. “I will have the last word,” he said. “I will thrash the stubbornness out of you.” It was frightening. But reassuring, too, in a way. Thomas had never been spanked, that he could recall. I was the good boy, he realized. Or the shrewd one.
When Thomas was nine or ten, his father had had a breakdown. “Nervous breakdown” was the expression they used then. He had been supposed to preach. The moment had come to go up into the pulpit, but he had been unable to. He had had to go home. Perhaps the pagan people of Blackpool had finally got the better of him. Afterward, Thomas’s family had gone on the longest holiday they ever took together. A month in Devon. They had stayed in an abandoned zoo, of all things, sleeping in old animal houses that had been converted into holiday cabins.
Soon after Father’s breakdown and that holiday, they had left Blackpool and moved to [REDACTED]. This was one of the watersheds, and, looking back, Thomas realized that his memories of Father from this point on were rather different, rather sadder. The expression “new challenge” was used, though Thomas didn’t know who had said it. Dad was given a new challenge: a big church in a thriving well-to-do suburb of [REDACTED]. People in high places believed in him. He was a man who needed to give energy where energy would be well received. An evangelical cannot thrive in a world of May Queens. Or not for long.
At school, Thomas had to drop his northern accent to avoid being laughed at. Did Father have to change his accent in the pulpit? To suit the good folk of North [REDACTED]? Thomas had no recollection. Thinking about this now, he found it odd. Life had slipped by unnoticed. Or perhaps he, Thomas, at ten years old, had been so focussed on his new life—the need to make new friends, the new vicarage with the big garden, the bus to school, and later the bus and tube to another school, right in the heart of [REDACTED]—so taken by all this novelty that he had barely noticed his father, who went on preaching in much the same way, it seemed to Thomas, albeit from a different pulpit. 
Did he have any recollection of talking to Father, one on one, during this period, in his adolescence, about anything that mattered? Girls, sex, religion, smoking, drinking? He did not. He really didn’t. What Thomas did remember, though, was the growing antagonism between his father and his brother, and his father’s frustration over his sister’s failure at school. He remembered these things because they had caused him pain. His sister was a good Christian, but not smart. One day, she had run away from school, because she couldn’t face her teachers. Father was angry with her. She locked herself in the bathroom, and he banged on the door with his fists. “You shall come out!” Mother tried to mediate, but she was shocked, too: they hadn’t expected this of his sister. Meanwhile, his brother grew his hair long, smoked cigarettes and dope, drank, had inappropriate girlfriends, and listened to evil music. But he did well in school and could beat Father at chess, which was not easy.
Thomas saw clearly now how his father had failed to see things clearly then. He had failed to accept that his daughter was not going to do well at school and that his son was not going to be a staunch Christian. He had allowed these entirely ordinary developments to frustrate him beyond measure. He had castigated himself. He saw the failings as his own, because it was unthinkable that they could be God’s. Meanwhile, Thomas did well enough at school and toed the line at church. He was sent to a school some miles away, to keep him from his brother’s evil influence. And his behavior was exemplary. Thomas did not smoke or listen to psychedelic music, and, when he swore, it was out of the earshot of parents and sister.
Yet even Thomas was not quite what his father wanted. He preferred literature to the sciences, and Father was convinced that the truth lay in the sciences, the sciences and theology. Everything else was wishy-washy humanism. At church, Thomas was more obedient than fervent. He went to church only because he would feel guilty if he didn’t. He would feel he had let his parents down. Of course, he would have preferred it himself if he had felt fervent about church. He would have liked to like his duties. It would have been such a relief. But, try as he might, he didn’t.
All this was in the air but never talked about. Father could hardly complain, because there was objectively nothing in Thomas’s behavior to complain about. Father could confront Thomas’s sister when she hid in the bathroom instead of going to school. He could confront Thomas’s brother when he was caught smoking at his bedroom window or when he started to paint pictures of naked women and said he wanted to go to art college. For better or for worse, there was a relationship there; there was heat. Father would bang on the bathroom door; he would shout. Sometimes he would even strike Thomas’s brother, then afterward he’d be fearfully friendly, because he had overdone it. He would embrace him, and Thomas’s sister, too.
But there was nothing he could shout at Thomas about. So, in a way, Thomas didn’t have a relationship with his father, as the others did. Now that he thought about it, Thomas could not remember a single conversation with his father throughout his teens. Nothing. Not one exchange of any import or intimacy at all. When he had found that verse in the Bible, “I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot,” he knew the words were meant for him. His father was a hot man. His balding dome flamed with color when his anger got the better of him. His brother was a cool customer. “Temper, temper,” he needled their sister. But Thomas was neither. “So then because thou art lukewarm,” the Good Book said, “I will spue thee out of my mouth.” That was how God felt about it. Mr. Lukewarm, Thomas thought. I am Mr. Lukewarm.
It was a Saturday evening now, and Thomas was alone, sitting at his computer screen. It had been a pleasant enough day—he had gone swimming, shopping, had lunch with a friend. But now he began to feel anxious. Now he began to understand where all this was leading, these reflections that he had avoided for thirty years. The truth was that although he had talked to a lawyer about divorce, although he had got the documents, Thomas still hadn’t quite done the deed. He saw that now. The thought of that final confrontation with his wife, the signing of the documents, pained him. You are marooned, Thomas told himself. Mothballed. For the depression.
He thought again of that rainy Saturday morning when, short of breath and nauseated, his father had led his younger son in the awesome promise: With this ring . . . with this ring . . . I thee wed . . . I thee wed. First his father’s voice, then his own, as they stood face to face at the bottom of the chancel steps. With my body . . . with my body . . . I thee worship . . . I thee worship. It seemed to Thomas now that that must have been the most intimate moment they had ever known. In the name of the father . . . In the name of the father . . . and of the son . . . and of the son. How old had Father been that day, the day before his cancer was diagnosed, the day of the very last ceremony he would ever perform, not knowing it was the last? Fifty-nine. Dad had been fifty-nine. How old was Thomas now? Fifty-eight.
Thomas was electrified. This was what he had come back to his father for. To ask himself what the man’s life had been like in his fifties, when the family melodrama was over and the decisive battle lost. But easy does it. Put it all in order, Thomas thought, before jumping to conclusions. Go back. Back back back to adolescence.
The most memorable development that had to do with his father, the most decisive watershed, was the Charismatic Movement. His parents had at first resisted, then succumbed to the excitement. It must have been an evangelical version of the ’68 aberration, the need for upheaval and change. Certainly there was an American influence. Soon Mother and Father were reading out I Corinthians 12 at every opportunity, St. Paul’s account of the gifts of the spirit: there were words of wisdom, gifts of healing, gifts of prophecy. Then, one Sunday morning, the curate raised his arms on the chancel steps and spoke in tongues. It sounded babbled and weird, and the man’s face was ecstatic. This was the baptism in the spirit. Needless to say, many parishioners were disgusted. Then Thomas had heard his father and his mother doing the same thing in their bedroom. Babbling. Then his father had declared in church that he believed in these gifts—it was the Renewal they had all been praying for—and he, too, had spoken in tongues from the chancel steps and raised his arms to Heaven in ecstasy when singing a hymn. Thomas couldn’t remember now which hymn. All hymns at the time had seemed painful to him, laden with sad sentiment, with some sticky emotion that held you back. To sing a hymn was to struggle through warm mud, to feel the impossibility of ever growing up and being free.
Very soon, the pressure on the children began. They, too, must be baptized in the spirit. They, too, must speak in tongues. It was never declared overtly, but it was obvious that if you weren’t, if you didn’t, then you couldn’t be part of the inner fellowship, the core family. His sister got there in no time at all. In no time at all, she was babbling away and praising God and talking about the Latter Days. It made school exams seem rather less important. Thomas fudged it, of course. Thomas pretended he was on board, but mostly studied for his O levels. His parents wouldn’t want to stop him studying, would they? Thomas did try to see if he could speak in tongues; he might even have liked to, had it come naturally. With all the sincerity he could muster, he asked God for guidance and hazarded a few nonsense words; they were not convincing. Meanwhile, people noticed that he did not raise his hands during the hymns. He couldn’t. All in all, it was getting harder and harder to keep your head down.
Sitting at his computer screen now, Thomas saw that Father had embraced this heady Charismatic stuff to break a deadlock, to make something happen in his life. He hadn’t been able to go to sea like his own father. He hadn’t become a missionary in exotic lands. It was true that many souls had been won for Jesus, but then they had drifted away again. People blew hot and cold. The May Queen had been abolished, but no doubt she had returned after the reforming vicar had grown too depressed and disheartened to climb the pulpit stairs. There had been the new challenge in [REDACTED], and he had risen to it—he had done well, the congregation had flourished—but his daughter had failed at school, his older son was an atheist, a smoker, and a libertine, and his youngest child a mere conformist, a cowardly sail-trimmer.
Father had written a book in those years, on the Holy Trinity, but it had not been accepted. Or, rather, it had been accepted, but only by some minor publisher, not the publisher he’d wanted. It had not made an impression. Exactly what was in the book Thomas didn’t know. His father hadn’t talked about it, though Thomas was not so stupid, even in his mid-teens, that you couldn’t talk to him about a book. So if Father hadn’t talked about his book on the Holy Trinity it was because he was scared of exposing his ideas to his son’s skepticism. Or maybe he didn’t want to push this lukewarm lad into a position where he would have to declare himself. Either way, they hadn’t spoken about it. They hadn’t spoken about anything. Then suddenly this mad wave of enthusiasm was flowing through the church; there was talk of healing and the spiritual power to transform the world. Frustrated, Thomas’s father had gone for it.
To prove the worth of a weapon you must use it. For six months, a year, the tension in the family soared. They all became more and more themselves. Violently, dangerously themselves. His father prayed and prophesied. His sister was a shrill echo. His brother made fun, hissing and sniggering like a demon. His mother wept; this unkindness would bring her down with gray hairs to her grave. In response, Thomas was intensely well behaved. He hid in his good behavior. In his room, he hung posters of football teams and tinkered with old valve radios. If he could have become invisible, he would. From downstairs came the sound of his sister banging out “Onward, Christian Soldiers” on the piano. Very soon, things would come to a head.
In his small flat, Thomas had put on the kettle for tea. Now he changed his mind and poured himself a beer. He honestly couldn’t recall the details, exactly how or why it had happened, but one evening, in the lounge, around midnight, they exorcised his brother. Thomas was fifteen. His brother had come home late. Perhaps smelling of dope or drink. From his bedroom, Thomas heard shouting and started to go downstairs. The lounge door was closed. A pale-green door. From behind it came shouts and the chants of prayers, the piano, a hymn. “Yes, Lord, yes!” And his brother was shouting, too. “Leave me alone! Get your hands off me! Let me go! You’re all fucking crazy!”
Thomas stood on the stairs, looking at the pale-green paint on the door, listening. His whole family was in there. His father, his mother, his sister, his brother. The curate, too, by the sound of it. The loathsome curate with his ecstatic babble. They were all there, behind that door in that room, where a real drama was taking place. The drama between people who are hot and people who are cold.
Thomas was outside.
Thomas had not rushed down the last steps, burst into the room, and yelled at them to stop this nonsense.
Thomas was young. He was afraid. He was excluded. He was not really on anyone’s side. He didn’t want to be like his parents, but he didn’t like the way his brother provoked them. Because thou art lukewarm I will spue thee out of my mouth.
Was this, Thomas wondered, why he was on his own now, forty and more years later, on a Saturday night, bivouacked on a metaphorical mountainside, with no one beside him? Because he was lukewarm? And if it was, was it really a problem? Thomas rather liked his apartment, didn’t he, and his quiet cold evenings.
When the exorcism had failed, when Thomas’s brother wasn’t purged or broken but continued to be who he had always been, when the desired transformation did not take place and life returned, if not to normal, then certainly to monotony and flatness, as when a flood withdraws after the tempest, what had his father’s life been like then? How had he been able to go on, to traverse day by day the grim domestic mudscape that was left? The nine sad mothballed years before the cancer choked him?
A year after the exorcism, Thomas had gone on a last holiday with his parents, to Deal, on the south coast. This was where his father and mother had spent their honeymoon. They even got the same room in the same hotel, right on the seafront. But there wasn’t much joy now. Thomas felt too old to holiday with his parents. His brother and sister were elsewhere. His parents seemed deflated, directionless, particularly his mother. They were going through the motions. They were trying to revive something. Father gritted his teeth. He suggested that he and Thomas rise early and take a swim before breakfast. It would be bracing. Thomas would have preferred to sleep late but didn’t want to disappoint.
So they got up at seven, put on their swimming trunks, crossed the road to the sea, laid their towels on the pebbles, and waded in. The days it rained, they put the towels in plastic bags. The sea was gray. Thomas could still see his father’s body, birdlike but paunchy. His skin was dead white, his old red trunks baggy and slack. When the waves came up to his thighs, he would stop for a while, moving his hands back and forth in the cold water, crouching a little after a wave passed to keep his wrists covered, standing on tiptoe when the next wave rose to keep it off his crotch. “Wonderful air,” he shouted to Thomas. “So fresh.” He made a theatre of puffing out his chest and breathing deeply, and when finally he ducked his head into the water he would come up sputtering and protesting and flapping his arms. It was the theatre of someone trying to turn grayness into fun, trying to find a reason to rejoice. Thomas was aware now that he hadn’t been much help to his father. He’d launched into the first big wave and swum steadily out to sea. When he’d stopped and turned, treading water, the Reverend Sanders had been a small bald figure in a vast expanse of gray.
The years after that yielded nothing. Father started using aftershave and wearing colored shirts, even silk cravats. He looked quite the dandy. For Christmas, one gave him bath salts or body lotion. After lunch, he snoozed in an armchair, his trousers loosened. At dinner, he was as impatient as ever. He scraped the custard off his plate and hurried off to his sermons. That was the one time when he really came alive: preaching, persuading, seducing even, in his robes, from the pulpit. To Thomas’s brother, years on, Father had apologized. So his brother said. An awkward, hurried apology about the “too much religion we drummed into you.” And once, when Thomas came home late and was in the kitchen drinking coffee, his father had come down to pick at beef bones in the fridge and, with his mouth full, muttered, “I suppose it has been all right, in the end, this monogamous life.” Had that been an invitation to talk?
Thomas drank another beer and emptied a pack of nuts into a dish. He closed the document on his computer screen. What sort of life could his father have lived if he had openly declared that he no longer believed, no longer wanted to preach, no longer wanted his marriage? It was unthinkable. Mother would have been destroyed. His sister, and perhaps his brother, too, in a way. Thomas went back in his mind to those morning swims at Deal. Now that he thought about it, there had been a kind of melancholy father-and-son intimacy about them. He remembered the pebbles dark with dew, their slippery hardness when he took his plastic sandals off a couple of yards from the water. Dad put his glasses in his sandals, so as to be sure where they were. “What can you see without them?” Thomas asked. “The sea,” Father said, laughing. “The sky.” After a warm bed, the water was icy about your ankles. The breeze was chill. The pebbles were painful underfoot. Father began his spluttering routine, then his slow, blind breaststroke. Thomas put his head down and dived. He swam strongly out toward the dark horizon. Stroke after stroke. A powerful freestyle. He was showing off, of course, declaring the vigor and victory of youth. At the same time, it had been a pleasure to have his father there, in the water behind him, between him and the shore. He had felt protected somehow. He remembered that.
Now Thomas has swum out too far, and he stops and turns. He treads water, looking back at England’s coast, the long sweep of quaint, decaying façades, the pale clouds. The sea is all around, a slow gray swell. Dimly, he hears his father’s voice. “Tommy! Tommy!” Where is he? There. A wave rises and his father’s head with it. A small white dot. I can see him, Thomas thinks, but with his poor eyesight he can’t see me. “Tommy! Hey, Tommeee!” He’s worried for me, Thomas realizes. He’s worried that I’ve gone too far and may never make it back. 

