The Start of the Affair
By Nuruddin Farah
At a fire sale a few years ago, James MacPherson, a retired professor of politics at Wits, [REDACTED], known for his seminal work on the Frontline States’ war of attrition against the apartheid regime, bought a restaurant in Pretoria specializing in North African cuisine. His knowledge of Africa was extensive, a result of having lived in various places around the continent for a number of years, most notably Zambia and [REDACTED], and of having travelled frequently to the neighboring states.
Now he spends much of his time at a corner table in the restaurant, surrounded by the papers on which he has scribbled notes for a book he intends to lick into shape. He seldom interferes with the business side of the restaurant, allowing the manager, Yacine, a Moroccan, full authority to deal with most problems. And, on the rare occasion that Yacine seeks his input, James defers to him, saying, “It is your call.”
James has thickened with age, gaining much weight. His once slim body has ballooned outward, and his paunch extends far ahead of him. His feet are swollen, as if he were diabetic. His doctor recommends regular workouts. And, because he does not feel sufficiently motivated to walk to the local gym, James has set up a mini-gym in the basement of his house. The last time he hired a personal trainer to come to his home, to help stretch his inflexible body, the young man spoke rudely to him, because he could barely bend forward to touch his toes. In addition, James has a weak left eye and he is forced, at times, to turn his entire body in order to catch sight of a person or a thing.
James has the habit of arriving at nine in the morning, just as the restaurant is opening, not only because he loves the grainy coffee that the chef, a Turk, makes but also because he derives great joy from being in the restaurant and from the companionability of the young men and women who work in the offices nearby and come in for breakfast meetings. He revels in the bodies coming and going, and feels there is a purpose to the noisy activity here, a meaning to the bustle of waiters taking orders, chefs and sous-chefs preparing the food, and the manager doing the sums, printing the bills after payment, the customers engaging one another in conversation and, as is common among Africans, touching freely. James observes the young men with keener interest than he does their female colleagues or clients.
He has lately, however, shown obvious keenness in one particular young man, who emerged from the staff door at lunchtime one day, carrying what looked to him like a doggie bag with food in it. Possibly the glimpse of the youth stirred something in James’s memory—he was a handsome fellow, with an uncanny likeness to the preteen son of a Somali family James had known in [REDACTED]. This family, from whom he used to buy his provisions, had owned a general store adjacent to James’s hotel. The boy’s father was exceptionally kind to James whenever he went round to the store, and the two would chat about Somali politics in broken Swahili. The mother, for her part, was by far the prettiest woman James had ever set eyes on. He became close enough to the family for the wife to invite him home for meals on festive occasions and for the husband to lend him cash a couple of times when a money order had been delayed. And, when James took ill and the hotel management did nothing, the boy’s father sent a Somali doctor to attend to him. James was so beholden to the boy’s parents that he could not bring himself to take advantage of the young thing on the various occasions when he and the boy were alone at the swimming pool to which he had invited him. James, though tempted, chose not to abandon himself to his unreasoning passion.
He remembers all this now that he has learned from the kitchen staff that the young man he saw is, indeed, Somali. Eyebrows are raised, and the staff starts gossiping when, on subsequent days, James asks what the young man’s name is, what he does for a living, where he lives, and how long he has been in the country. The kitchen staff cannot seem to decide whether his curiosity is innocent or not, the Turk saying that James’s eyes light up, like those of a teen-ager in love, whenever Ahmed comes into view.
One morning, on his way to the restaurant after a dentist’s appointment, James makes a detour, entering a nearby store, which Ahmed manages. It is not clear in James’s mind if he will speak to Ahmed, and, if he does, whether he will ask about Ahmed’s visits to the restaurant or find out if he is related to the young Somali boy James knew in [REDACTED]. James is a sensitive soul, and he is loath to infringe on anyone’s sense of privacy if he can help it; likewise, he won’t pester his employees with queries that might embarrass them. He just wants to have a feel for the store, and to make the young man’s acquaintance.
Immediately, he can tell that there is no roaring business here. There are only five people in the place, two women in full-body tents and a third wearing headgear similar in style to a nun’s, and an old man sitting on a low stool who is chatting with the young man and occasionally helping to retrieve items that are placed high up in the stacks. James takes his time. He has no interest in purchasing any of the items on display. But he hangs around; he wants to exchange a few words with Ahmed in the proper manner, reasoning that he likes the look of the young man, loves the way he concentrates on what he is doing, and senses, too, that his movements are those of a young man who has said yes to hard work.
James finds himself gazing at the fellow’s handsome face, his sweet smile, his delicately carved features. He is relieved to confirm that Ahmed is not the preteen, now a young man, to whose parents he was beholden in [REDACTED], and of whom he had not taken advantage. He can now afford to think ahead to the day when he can fill his eyes with Ahmed’s naked body, given the chance. He wishes he were an artist and Ahmed a nude subject, posing to be drawn. Sadly, though, the clothes on Ahmed prove to be an encumbrance. They are so badly designed. What is more, the sleeves of his shirt are too short, and there is visible dirt around the neck, plus curry-type stains here and there, and the trousers are too baggy. The fellow could do with a cleaner set of clothes, laundered and pressed. James can’t recall seeing him wearing any clothes other than the ones in which he is now standing. But all that could be fixed in less than half an hour’s shopping—and James is prepared to foot the bill to dress him in clothes that would bring his features to the fore. Still, he doubts that their conversation today will move much beyond swapping names.
Then, as luck would have it, and because James has stuck around longer than he initially intended to, he and Ahmed are alone and the young fellow is asking, “What can I sell to you?”
James’s thoughts are suddenly cluttered with the detritus of memories, feelings for which he cannot find adequate explanation. Had he the guts to answer the question honestly, he might have replied that he was interested not in buying any of the trinkets and cheap clothes from 4368696e61 but in him, and only him. In other words, since everything has a price, how much would Ahmed’s “company” cost in monetary terms? How much to hold him in an embrace?
“My name is James MacPherson,” he says.
Then, smiling serenely, he moves a step closer.
“Yes-hello-James-welcome,” the Somali says, speaking the words in such a way that James can’t help imagining that, in Ahmed’s head, they form a single hyphenated word.
“What is your name?”
“My name is Ahmed Ali-Mooryaan,” the Somali says.
James, wanting to know how to address him, asks, “So, which is your Christian name?”
“I have no Christian name.”
James realizes right away that he has made a faux pas. And so, in an attempt to charm him, he offers his hand, formalizing the ritual of their encounter with a handshake. As he takes the young man’s slender hand—the hand of a pianist, James thinks—he expounds, “I know that you Somalis have one name, which is your given name, another which is your father’s name, and a third, which is your paternal grandfather’s. So whose name or nickname is Mooryaan?” James is aware that descriptive nicknames are often bestowed on people bearing the commonest of names. Presumably, there are thousands of men called Ali, and the idea is to distinguish one Ali from another. Hence Ali-Mooryaan.
“My name is Ahmed.”
“And your father’s name?”
“His name is Ali. But everybody calls him Mooryaan.”
James puts on the delightful smile of a man determined to redeem himself. “Mooryaan is a beautiful name, isn’t it?”
“My dad is a beautiful man.”
“A beautiful name for a handsome man.”
“My dad is handsome, a man’s man.”
James is uncertain what he means by this, but wonders if the phrase “a man’s man” is no more than a literal translation from Somali into English. And he lets it pass. However, he asks, “Is it an Arab name from the Koran or purely a Somali name?”
James intends to impress Ahmed; he wants the young man to know that he has a modicum of knowledge about his traditions.
“My father is famous in Mogadishu,” Ahmed says.
James asks, “What is your father famous for?”
“You say his name, everybody knows him.”
Pressing, he repeats, “But what’s he famous for?”
“Mooryaan is just a nickname.”
“But what does Mooryaan mean, in Somali?”
“Just a nickname between him and his friends,” Ahmed explains. “He is good-looking, and is now powerful, rich, and blessed with fifteen children— twelve boys, three girls—and four wives. Mooryaan is his famous nickname.”
“And the nickname has stuck?”
“Stuck, what means ‘stuck’?”
James wonders if Ahmed’s command of the language becomes dishevelled whenever he feels ruffled. Or could it be that he has only “street English,” as an Arabic speaker might put it?
“And what made you leave your father in [REDACTED] and come to [REDACTED]?”
“[REDACTED] is good, the best in Africa.”
“But why not Europe or the [REDACTED]?”
“My applications were denied.”
“Why?”
“Politics,” Ahmed replies.
“Politics, how?”
“My dad upset [REDACTED].”
“To upset [REDACTED], your dad must be a big man.”
“In [REDACTED], he is big, my dad.”
“How did you come here?”
“There were five of us, and we started our journey from Mogadishu by plane to 4b656e7961,” Ahmed replies. “At 4b656e7961 airport, we bribed the immigration officials. From there, we travelled to [REDACTED], where we encountered lots of trouble, then more trouble, and were imprisoned. We were accused of illegally entering the country. Three of my friends were raped in prison, first by prison guards and then, again and again, by the prisoners.”
“Why were you spared?”
“Because I had money to give and I did.”
“Then what happened?”
“Four of us were allowed to leave.”
“And the fifth?”
“He is still in detention.”
“Why?”
“He is the second ‘wife’ of the prison warden.”
“And from [REDACTED] you came to what country?”
“Malawi, where we were also imprisoned.”
“All four of you arrived together in Malawi?”
“And two of us were not allowed to leave.”
“Why were they refused permission to leave?”
“They were raped in prison and detained.”
“Again, you were spared. Why?”
“I was lucky.”
James doesn’t believe that luck spared him. But it is not surprising that Ahmed won’t admit to being raped. James knows, from having interviewed former political prisoners, that they all deny the truth of the physical and sexual humiliation they suffered at the hands of prison wardens or political commissars.
“And then?”
“After Malawi, Mozambique and then [REDACTED].”
“Your English is very good,” James says.
“Thank you.”
“Have you learned it since coming here?”
“No. I learned it in [REDACTED],” Ahmed replies.
“I didn’t think that would be possible.”
“You mean because we have a civil war?” 
“I understand that Arabic has been made the lingua franca there, and that even the use of Somali, a young tongue in terms of writing, has declined,” James says.
Ahmed shakes his head and then explains, “My dad, he imported a teacher from [REDACTED] to teach us at home. He paid a good salary to the teacher—two hundred U.S. dollars a month. The teacher lived in our house. He was our family’s teacher, eight of us school-going-age children in one class.”
“And where is your home?”
“I come from Mogadishu,” Ahmed says.
“I meant, where do you live now?”
Ahmed points at the floor. “Here!”
James is not shocked to hear that Ahmed lives, works, and sleeps in the store. He remembers how one morning he went to the restaurant unexpectedly early and found two of the North African waiters sleeping in the pantry, the sacks of onions, potatoes, and other items pushed into a corner to make space for one mattress that the two men shared. James has said nothing about it and continues to pretend that they live elsewhere. It did not occur to him that they might be homosexuals because they were sharing a single mattress; he thought, instead, that he should raise their salaries, even though he doubts that an increase would encourage them to rent an apartment—he knew that they were sending all their money back home. Anyhow, emboldened by his knowledge of what obtains among the migrants, James asks, “Here, where?”
Ahmed points to a hidden corner beyond the shelves, where a mattress stands against the wall.
James, needing to make himself taller for some reason, draws himself up, and then asks, “You are saying you work, live, and sleep here, and for food you collect the leftovers from my restaurant?”
Ahmed looks offended, but James is unable to fathom why. His lips are astir—James thinks that he is having difficulty matching the thoughts in his head with the language at his command, is hesitating for fear that he may not make sense. Finally, Ahmed manages to speak. “You say ‘my restaurant’?”
“Who did you think the restaurant belonged to?”
“Yacine says the restaurant belongs to him.”
“Oh, does he?”
So that is what is happening, James thinks. Ahmed isn’t so much offended as surprised, having believed that the restaurant was owned by Yacine, thanks to whose generosity he was daily given the lunch leftovers. James remembers seeing a Senegalese film—he cannot recall the name of the filmmaker or the title—in which a young African in [REDACTED], in the sixties, has a picture taken of himself leaning against a car parked in a street that he is sweeping. The young Senegalese sends the picture to his family, claiming the car as his own. No matter. The migrant is rich in imagination and, of course, the fact that Yacine claims to own the restaurant doesn’t bother James in the least.
“You say he lying?”
Again, James notices the way Ahmed’s control of English starts to slip, and he decides that it must happen whenever he becomes agitated or nervous.
“I own the restaurant, every brick of it,” James now tells him.
“Why lie? He is a bad man, Yacine.”
“You’ll have to ask him yourself.”
“I no like people lying,” Ahmed says.
“Don’t concern yourself about it.”
“Lying is like killing—no good.”
James says, “Still, it is O.K. for you to continue taking your lunch from the restaurant. You have no worries about that. In fact, I’ll insist that they give you better food, healthier food.”
“Thank you. Yes, I would like. Thank you.”
But Ahmed still looks upset, and James cannot puzzle this out. James has to take care. The fellow is touchy. No Christian names and no questions pertaining to the lunch leftovers he takes away. Maybe it is time for James to go. He can come back, now that they have met, and perhaps they will arrange a convenient time to get to know each other better. No rush.
“Well, I’ll tell you what, Ahmed,” James says.
“What?”
“I’ll see you another time. O.K.?”
“O.K.”
“Bye.”
“Goodbye. Till another time.”
Back at his table in the restaurant, James is momentarily overjoyed to recall his youthful courtship of his late wife, Martha. (Her Portuguese parents, living in Lourenço Marques, had named her Marta, but she added an “h” to Anglicize it.) He paid court to Martha, a fellow-student at the University of Cape Town, by pampering her with gifts, including gorgeous bouquets of flowers from a Rondebosch florist, and a birthday card delivered express, direct to her hostel. She was wafer-thin, with hair cut close to the head. James’s mother said that Martha wasn’t her idea of a woman or, for that matter, a mother and she thought that her son needed his head examined. She said, “How can you? The woman is a Twiggy manqué. At least the other one is English, famous, and a talented artist. What is good about this one?” James had retorted, “Who says every marriage has to produce a child?” You could have floored his mother with the softest touch—and she was shocked to hear him speak of marriage. “But I do. I want a grandchild, who will continue our line. Remember, darling. You are an only child and so am I, and, with your father dead, that will be the end of us.” He had shrugged off her comments, saying, “You make it sound as though this were a train, when you speak of the end of the line that way.”
A number of things about Martha appealed to James: she had no local family to host her on weekends or holidays, and no one to worry about her if she didn’t come home but spent a few days at his apartment, in Claremont. Moreover, she was willing to go to his digs whenever he invited her. He would cook candlelit dinners and offer her wine galore, the best and the most sought after in the Western Cape. It was a mystery to him, though, that she could gorge herself on boxes of imported chocolates nightly without gaining a single ounce. How did she manage it when all he had to do to become thick in the waist like a tree trunk was hold a sliver of chocolate in his hand? Looking back now on his and Martha’s courtship, he finds that Ahmed’s accent is similar in an uncanny way to Martha’s. Her English was overlaid with Portuguese, which she never lost to her dying day, just as Ahmed’s English is plastered with Somali inflections, a feature that seems quaint to James, terribly charming and sexy.
James is almost three times Ahmed’s age. There is time yet for him to find out how recently Ahmed arrived in the country and whether his refugee application has been approved by Home Affairs. There is time to discuss Ahmed’s plans for the future. And for James to consider his own. He lives all alone in a very big house, with only his dogs for company and a maid who comes during the day. There has been an eerie silence, ever since Martha died, two years ago. Of course there is room for Ahmed to join him. But not too fast—hey, not too fast, my man!
First off, James alters Ahmed’s status at the restaurant. He tells Yacine that, from today onward, Ahmed is not to be treated as a poor relation, given a sandwich made from leftovers and the heel of a loaf, but that he is to be offered a cooked meal twice a day, at lunchtime and in the evening. Yet, although Ahmed receives the new dispensation with joy, the instruction from on high without consultation riles the manager, who feels affronted, and those in the kitchen’s lower order who had until then shown Ahmed only kindness are piqued into an unprecedented meanness, because they suspect him of having complained to their boss. On the second day of the new arrangement, the meal the chef cooked was too salty and almost inedible, and his tea had in it milk that was past its consumption date.
Ahmed takes ill the following day, his stomach runny. He spends a great deal of time going from the store to the shared outhouse toilet and back, and decides to close for the day. All the while, his vision is blurred. He rings his Somali friends, who suggest that he buy tablets for diarrhea and aspirin for his headache, which he does, but these are of no great help. So he leaves a handwritten message on the door that says “Bak tomoro!” and returns to bed.
Ahmed’s no-show surprises James, for he has looked forward to seeing him and to hearing how delighted he is by the arrangement James has made for him. Early the following morning, on his way to his table at the restaurant, he stops in at the store to find Ahmed looking wan and withdrawn. He asks what is the matter, and Ahmed replies, “Food poison.” James takes him to his own doctor in his car, wondering what to do about the chef and the kitchen staff, and wondering, too, if Yacine is in on this. He won’t rush into anything; he is well aware that Yacine has a short temper, and that there is no point in confronting any of the kitchen staff unless it happens a second or a third time.
While waiting for the results from the clinic, James and Ahmed retreat to a café across the street. He asks Ahmed how long he has been in [REDACTED] and what his current status is.
“Waiting for status,” Ahmed says. “Applied and waiting, waiting for nine months, no answer.” James notices, once again, that there is a shagginess to his language, as Ahmed continues, “There is no one to help me, don’t know anyone who can help, don’t know any officer in Home Affairs to assist me, or to bribe.”
As they have breakfast, James watches Ahmed clumsily handling his fork and knife, unable at first to determine even how to cut off a slice of his chicken, or how to put jam on his toast. “Where did you apply, Joburg or Pretoria?”
“Joburg Home Affairs.”
One of James’s former students occupies a middle-ranking position at the Home Affairs office in Joburg, and he can put in a word to help expedite matters for Ahmed. However, it is too soon to promise to do that. Not yet. There is a proper occasion and a proper place for this sort of intervention, which requires a cautious approach on his part. In addition, he won’t want to make everything appear so easy, as this may cheapen the favor that is on offer.
He asks, “So what papers do you have now?”
“I got a temporary permit to stay,” Ahmed says, tripping over the word “temporary.”
James has met people from the Middle East for whom the letter “p” is an ordeal to pronounce. Even Yacine, who has been here for almost a decade, often stumbles on it, in addition to mixing his verbs and misplacing his prepositional and adjectival phrases. James tells himself that a language like English has room enough for everyone from anywhere, which is why it has lately become everybody’s second tongue.
He says, “How long have you been here now?”
“Two years and eight months.”
“May I ask you a very personal question?”
“Go ’head and ask.”
“Have you taken a loan to open the store?”
After a long silence, Ahmed says, “No.”
“How did you get the money?”
“My father, he sent me money from Mogadishu.”
“What business is your dad in nowadays?”
“He made plenty money in the early nineties.” Ahmed gets to his feet, saying, “Sorry, toilet,” and dashes off.
He is gone a long time, and when he comes back James asks how he is, and Ahmed says, “I feel better, much better.”
James settles the bill, and they return to the clinic to collect the results of the tests. Neither is surprised to hear that they confirm Ahmed’s self-diagnosis—food poisoning.
They stop at a pharmacy and James pays for the prescription, then they drive to James’s house on the pretext that he needs to collect some documents from his study.
After parking the car in the two-car garage, James, out of thoughtfulness, says to Ahmed, “Please wait in the car for a moment. I know from previous associations with other Somalis that you may want me to put the dogs in the back yard, so they won’t be a nuisance.”
Ahmed says, “How many dogs do you have?”
“Three purebred,” James says.
Ahmed speaks as if in awe: “Three dogs?”
Not that Ahmed is impressed by the fact that all three dogs are pure-blooded. For him, a dog is a dog; he is scared of them and won’t go near one. So he sits in the car and does not relax until James comes out to tell him that the house is now clear. He follows James in with the cautiousness of someone entering enemy territory. And when he hears a bang coming from the kitchen he stops in his tracks. He wants to know who is making the noise. “Dogs?” he inquires, ready to flee.
“It is the house help,” James says.
“House help?”
“The maid in the kitchen, working.”
And James calls to the maid, a large woman almost his size. The woman smiles and then curtsies and utters a few words of welcome. James asks for a glass of water so that Ahmed can take his medicine. The woman returns with a glass filled to the brim, waits and watches as the young Somali raises the glass to his lips.
After that, Ahmed moves about the house freely, unafraid. He goes from one room to another, opening the doors of the bathroom and, next to it, the toilet. James waits for him to return from his inspection, and when Ahmed comes back into the kitchen he sees that his eyes are open wide with wonder.
James says, “There is more upstairs.”
Ahmed, obviously overwhelmed, goes up the stairs, James following, and passes through one bedroom after another. When he walks into the study and sees the number of books and the stacks of magazines, two desktop computers, and three laptops all in one room, he turns to James and asks, “How many people live here?”
“Only me,” James replies.
He points at the laptops, asks, “Why three?”
“Would you like one of them?”
“As gift for me?”
“Yes, as a gift to you for our friendship.”
“I am glad, yes, thank you.”
James then explains that since the laptop contains some of his documents they will drop it off at a specialist’s, who will save the documents and then wipe the computer clean for Ahmed’s future use.
“You read all these books?” Ahmed asks.
James, modestly, says, “Most of them.” Then, after a pause, he asks Ahmed, “Do you like reading yourself—and what type of books do you like?”
“My English bad—can’t read books, only magazines.”
“I can teach you to read. Would you like that?”
“Too old, maybe,” Ahmed says.
James takes Ahmed’s hand, and Ahmed doesn’t pull it away and doesn’t resist when he holds on to it. “You are young and intelligent, and you will learn fast when I teach you. I am a good teacher; I’ve been a university professor for many years. It will make me happy to give you lessons here in this house.”
And James leads him downstairs by the hand to the gym. Ahmed first gets on the bicycle and starts pedalling, then he steps onto the treadmill and, pressing the wrong buttons, almost falls off. James catches him in time and hugs him to himself, his heart beating at a faster rate. He is all memory, remembering the preteen, whom he never had. He thinks, This one is different. Here it will be consensual. Again, Ahmed doesn’t resist or push James away.
Ahmed says, “We’ll see. Our future is long.”
Noticing a pile of books in the gym, almost all of them about [REDACTED], Ahmed asks if James has read these, too. To which James replies, “I borrowed them from the library of the university where I taught for many years, and I intend to read them. I want to have a better understanding of your country’s history as I get to know you more. It is a fascinating country, where you come from.”
Ahmed feels obligated to take a look at the books. He reads a few of the titles aloud, mispronouncing some of the words and massacring the names of the authors, except for the Somali ones.
“Can we go? I need to open store,” Ahmed says finally.
“Of course.”
In the car, Ahmed says, “I love everything in your house.”
“Thank you.”
“One day I would like house like this.”
“Here or in [REDACTED]?”
Ahmed says, “One big house like this here, another in [REDACTED]. My father lives in house bigger than this, with more rooms, and near the ocean, two hundred metres from Lido, in Mogadishu.”
“I cannot afford a house on the seafront.”
“One day I’ll take you to Mogadishu, if you want.”
“I would love that. But is it safe?”
“My father will make sure you are safe.”
James stops in front of the store to drop him off.
Curious about Ahmed’s father and eager to know more, James seeks out a prominent Somali social-science professor who’s visiting the University of Pretoria on a two-year stint.
Rashid and James meet at the university’s main cafeteria. James plays up to Rashid, praising his scholarly acumen and describing his pieces as the most enlightening he has read on the phenomenon known as African warlordism. James adds, “No one writes about this as well as you do.”
Rashid bubbles over with excitement and speaks at length about Somali warlordism as a scourge for which there is no cure, since it feeds on the dysfunctional nature of factionalism. James is thinking that he likes his liquors straight, but he doesn’t like “isms” of any sort, because “isms” disempower you, when suddenly a familiar name—Mooryaan—catches his attention.
“ ‘Mooryaan’ means ‘pillager,’ you know, in Somali,” Rashid says. “The man is a bloodthirsty criminal, a plunderer of the nation’s wealth, accused of organizing the looting of the Central Bank, of dismantling working factories and selling the metal as scrap in the Arabian Gulf.”
Rashid has a way of raising his voice a few decibels higher when he gets emotional, and of spraying anyone sitting close by with spittle. James wipes away the spit and then asks, “So, his wealth comes from these ill-gotten gains?”
“Ali-Mooryaan is one of the wealthiest men in [REDACTED],” Rashid replies. “He ‘owns’ many villas on Mogadishu’s seafront and has bought properties in 4b656e7961 and in the Emirates. He has funded piracy, and he has made money out of exporting hard drugs via a small airstrip fifty kilometres outside Mogadishu.”
“In other words, he is your typical warlord.”
“He is one of the most wicked warlords.”
James derives some pleasure from thinking that Ahmed is unlikely to return to [REDACTED] for quite some time, given the precariousness of the politics there. And even though his father is powerful, Ahmed seems to lack that kind of ruthlessness. Perhaps he will be happy to stay out of his father’s sphere of influence once James assures him of a firm foothold in [REDACTED] from which he can further his own career. And, to this end, James decides to “invest” more in the young man in a way that will help him to gain his full trust and his eventual affection.
In an effort to achieve his aim and also to avoid upsetting the manager of the restaurant and the kitchen staff, he starts delivering Ahmed’s lunch to him at the store and then picking him up in the car for an evening meal at his house, dropping him back at the store after coaching him in conversational English. That way, they meet at least once daily. In the store, if there are no customers around they chat longer; and, if there are, James hands over the package of food, and at times even adds a card with a brief message.
Nor is food the only gift that James gives. For he has bought Ahmed three pairs of trousers, three shirts, several pairs of underwear, and a pair of comfortable shoes. The way it goes is that James presents something as a gift, Ahmed, pretending, says, “I can’t accept this,” or “It is too much,” or “You are spoiling me, my friend,” and then finally he invariably says, “Thank you. You are most kind”—evidence that he appreciates what James is doing for him.
When, one evening after dinner, Ahmed complains of a toothache, James plays the dentist, making him open his mouth and holding down his tongue with a spoon. “Enough, I’ll take you to my dentist first thing,” he says, and sets up an emergency appointment very early the following morning. And he won’t hear of Ahmed’s protestations, saying, “You sleep in the downstairs room, because we need to get there by half past seven at the latest.”
He lends Ahmed a pair of pajamas, his late wife’s. Ahmed, afraid that the dogs may find their way into the house and, who knows, attack him, locks the door from the inside. In truth, it hasn’t escaped James’s notice that Ahmed is inclined to lock the bathroom door. Perhaps the fellow is just wary by nature. Anyway, at six in the morning James knocks on Ahmed’s door to wake him. Ahmed has a shower, and after breakfast they go to the dentist together.
The dentist draws up a schedule after learning that he is the first dentist Ahmed has ever consulted, telling him that he must come back several times for the work on his teeth to be done.
Afterward, alone with James—Ahmed is now with the oral hygienist, having his teeth spruced up—the dentist asks, “Where did you find him?”
“He has a store near the restaurant.”
The dentist says, “He strikes me as hand-carved, a young man made to order.”
“He is, isn’t he?”
“What is going on?” the dentist asks.
“Nothing yet.”
“And where does he stay?”
“I won’t tell you.”
“You know he is not my type.”
“As if I know what your type is.”
“Anyhow, be careful. That is my advice.”
James has been very cautious, the two hardly coming into bodily contact, except one day when James is in the gym and Ahmed, tired of watching TV, joins him. James proposes that he help stretch Ahmed’s body and he sits on him, as personal trainers do. Then he touches him here and there, squeezing, massaging, and pressing his thighs, his groin—until he feels Ahmed’s rising mound of manhood. James apologizes insincerely, even though he doesn’t wish to stop, worried that continuing might upset Ahmed to the point where he will flee the nest that he has made his home.
However, he makes no further move and nothing happens between them for another year and a half. And there comes a point where James suspects that the changes in Ahmed that are visible to the eye could match some changes that can’t be seen. The store opens later and later in the morning and closes earlier. Ahmed’s Somali friends see him infrequently and several come looking for him, wondering if he is O.K. And they notice the changes, not only because Ahmed is wearing freshly pressed trousers and sporting Ray-Bans or using the latest type of iPhone but also because he doesn’t seem to have time to yammer with them. He is always in a hurry, mysteriously going somewhere, even though he won’t explain where.
The Somalis aren’t the only people who have noticed. One day, James eavesdrops on a conversation between Yacine and the Turkish chef—in which Yacine dismisses the Somali as a “toy boy,” for the old man. James wishes that this were the case. He pretends not to have heard anything and collects the dinner for that night.
It is possible that others with an eye for more nefarious activities have observed Ahmed’s frequent absences from the store, for it is broken into and everything of value taken, and the door left open until sunrise, when some of the passersby are said to have helped themselves to whatever they could lay their hands on.
With nowhere else to go, no store to mind, and nothing to do by way of a vocation, Ahmed moves full time into James’s house. James, for his part, reduces his visits to the restaurant to a minimum and works from home, the house help cooking most of his and Ahmed’s daytime meals, and the two of them either eating leftovers at night or rustling up light snacks. Ahmed spends more and more time in the family room watching TV. James joins him for the newsand, sitting very close, they hold hands and talk.
One early morning, James sneaks into Ahmed’s room and gets into bed and snuggles up to him. For a while, Ahmed pretends to be asleep and doesn’t move at all. But when James, fully naked, nestles closer, his hand reaching out and making obvious what his intentions are, Ahmed says, “Please, not now,” in the same tone of voice a woman uses when she says that she has her monthly. And the two of them sleep nude together, waiting for the appropriate day when they will consummate their union. 

