
The Referees
By Joseph O’Neill

I’m having lunch with a friend from college days, Michael, with the secret purpose of asking him a favor. It’s not the only reason I’m meeting him. I like Michael, as one does. He’s entertaining. He decides to tell me about his neighbor, Gus—
“Gus?” I say. “Are we talking Augustus?”
“Gustavus,” Michael says.
—who has, apparently, been ill-tempered and hostile for years—
“Back up,” I say. “Gustavus? As in Gustavus Adolphus?”
“What? He’s Gustavus Goldman. Gus Goldman.”
—this guy, this Gus, who lives in the apartment next door to Michael’s and has a history of irascibility and unhelpfulness connected, it would seem, to his alcoholism, this guy has turned over a new leaf and is now a sober, much happier, downright pleasant individual, and for some months has been trying to befriend my friend Michael, and has been Miking him—
“Did you say ‘Miking’ you?”
Michael says, “You know, ‘Mike’ this, ‘Mike’ that.”
“Oh yeah, right.”
—Miking him with a view to Michael becoming his pal. But Michael doesn’t want to be pals with Gus. He doesn’t like the guy, even if the guy he doesn’t like has been replaced by an affable non-asshole who sort of merits being befriended and who no doubt would appreciate Michael’s support and affirmation as he ventures down the straight and narrow—
“Hold on,” I say. “How was he an asshole? What did he do, exactly?”
“Do? He was an asshole. He behaved like an asshole.”
“You’re saying he was unneighborly.”
“I’m not saying that. I don’t need to say that. I’m saying I’ll be the judge of whether he’s an asshole or not. That’s my prerogative. It’s not an objective test. It doesn’t matter if nine out of ten people think he’s terrific. It doesn’t matter if he’s the greatest neighbor of all time. I get to decide who I’m going be friends with, with my criteria.”
“For sure,” I say. “Freedom of association.”
Michael, who is an attorney, says, “Well, that’s a slightly different concept.”
—anyhow, so Gus is on the wagon, and offering Michael his friendship, and the question that must be answered, even as we never lose sight of the fact that Michael enjoys a basically unqualified freedom to keep whomsoever at whatever distance he sees fit for whatever reason, the question to be answered is—
I say, “The answer is no. Don’t do it. An asshole is an asshole. Don’t cave.”
—the question to be answered, Michael goes on, isn’t whether he should be Gus’s friend, which is never going to happen, you can’t just undo years and years of being a dick, life just doesn’t work like that, no, the question is how to manage the situation, so that Michael isn’t suddenly the asshole; because, although being an asshole would be within Michael’s rights—
“Correct. You get to be an asshole. It’s not illegal.”
—being an asshole isn’t what he wants; and, as things stand, it’s Gus who’s the nice guy and it’s Michael who’s the asshole.
My friend is bark-laughing. It’s a bark-laugh I remember well, and it’s as if we’re once again at N.Y.U., in the dorm on Thirteenth Street. I say, “Yeah, that’s right, someone has to be the asshole. And it can’t be Gus. Not anymore. He’s turned over a new leaf. Gus is nice now.”

Michael says, “It’s like the poker thing. If you look around the table and can’t figure out who the asshole is—guess what? It’s you.”
The old back-and-forth is still there, the old badinage, the old rapport; and with pleasure we finish our hamburgers and catch up on each other’s news. Mine is the more interesting news, I would say, what with my interesting divorce and my interesting pennilessness and my interesting loneliness since my recent return to [REDACTED] from [REDACTED], [REDACTED], but Michael has anecdotes that he wants to share, and I end up not saying very much, and it’s only at the last minute that I’m able to mention that I’m trying to rent an apartment in Prospect Heights. “It’s a co-op,” I tell him. “They need me to provide character references. Hey, Mike,” I say with the old merrymaking irony, “could you write me one? You’ve got stationery. They’ll like that.”
We’re splitting the check: Michael puts the full amount on a law-firm credit card and I pay him my half in cash. “Sure,” he says. We shake hands. “E-mail me.”
Which is, when I get back to the office, exactly what I do. Michael replies within the hour:
Hi, Rob. On reflection, I don’t think I can do this. I’ve consulted some people here, and they agree that, as a professional matter, a historic collegiate acquaintance is an inadequate basis for a personal reference. It would be a different story if I had firsthand knowledge of your life post-college. I thought it right to let you know as promptly as possible. Michael.
What an asshole, I think I can say.
It wouldn’t matter except for the fact that it does matter. I need two character references A.S.A.P., and so far I’ve failed to collect a single one.
That’s not totally accurate. I’ve got this, from Tariq:
To Whom It May Concern: As his work supervisor, I have known Rob Karlsson for two weeks, during which time he has presented as a pleasant and responsible person. I hope this is of assistance.
Tariq is British and so maybe is guided by some protocol of understatement I’m not familiar with. Either way, his endorsement, as worded, isn’t what I’m looking for. I’m informed by the apartment lessor, Travis, who’s twenty-six and some kind of junior restaurant manager and yet somehow also a man of property, that the co-operators require (per their forwarded e-mail) “meaningful letters of reference that specifically address the high standards of integrity and deportment expected of a co-operative resident.”
I get that it’s a little much to drop this thing on Tariq, but in the short time we’ve known each other we’ve worked well together, and I’d like to think that we’ve made a social connection that’s not unreal over the course of our almost nightly after-work drinks, when he goes from being my superior at the office to being just a dude who would like me to introduce him to a girl who would like to be introduced to him. I can’t help him with this, unfortunately. After the years I’ve spent on the West Coast, my [REDACTED] contacts are pretty much vestigial. It took some effort to track down Paul, on whose couch I’m currently sleeping, if that’s the right word for what an insomniac does, and I can’t even claim that Paul, my mother’s cousin’s son, was anything like a huge bud in the first place, and in all honesty I tracked down Paul not because he was Paul as such but because the poor devil was the only 556e6974656420537461746573er I knew who was likely to be kind enough to let me crash with him until I found somewhere more permanent and suitable. Paul himself essentially lives at his boyfriend’s place, in [REDACTED]; since the key handover, we’ve laid eyes on each other only once. I’ve of course asked him for a reference and, because he’s a reliable and upstanding person who’s known me (very slightly, admittedly) since we were kids and is technically family, I can count on him to come through, I’m pretty sure, even though his job keeps him very busy and more than a week has passed since he agreed to do the necessary and time is getting to be of the essence.
What I mustn’t do is give the wrong kind of credence to the apparent fact that, at the age of thirty-six, I find myself in the position of being unable to easily identify two people who know me well enough to plausibly and candidly state that I’m a sufficiently O.K. human being for the purpose of living in close vicinity to others. That would be a superficial and overly catastrophic way of looking at things.
Now this, just in, from [REDACTED]:
Robert, I’m glad to hear you have found an apartment you like. I’ve been worried about you. It’s good to see that you’re doing fine. I’m going to ask you not to contact me for a long while. It’s unhealthy for us to be involved in each other’s lives. That’s why I’m not going to give you the personal recommendation you asked for. I’m sure you understand. Good luck with everything, Robert. Samantha.
Have you asked Billy?
I want to write back to Samantha to make it clear that I’m not looking for any further involvement in her life but actually and merely asking for a one-time administrative courtesy. I also want to contest her bare assertion that I’m “doing fine,” which I feel is basically a way to throw a blanket over me and my situation as if I were a small fire that you put out, and—wait: Billy?
Billy who?
Samantha doesn’t e-mail back. But Travis texts:
Got those refs yet? Need to wrap this up.
Oh—Billy.
Billy is my childhood best friend. We haven’t been in touch for nearly a decade. That’s been my doing, I’ve got to say. Billy came to “N.Y.C.,” as he always called it, in his mid-twenties, not long after he’d belatedly gathered the credits he needed for a business degree from Mankato State, and for a little more than a year he hung out with me and Samantha non-stop, it felt like, and kept hitting on Samantha’s friends with no luck, often implicating me as his “wingman,” and dragged me out to hockey games I absolutely didn’t want to go to. Billy, at this time, worked in sales strategy for a baby-food company in midtown. His dream was to come up with a world-conquering idea for a startup (or “upstart,” as he liked to joke), and he and I spent many evenings drinking beer at my place, when, if we weren’t re-reminiscing about the characters and events of our teen-age years in St. Paul, we were contemplating the magical “synergy” that Billy thought would be achieved by “fusing” his business skills and my computer expertise. Often, I remember, he would tap his skull with his finger and say that it, his skull, contained “the keys to the kingdom.” Meanwhile, Samantha lay low in the bedroom. It was an unsustainable state of affairs. Billy is a lovely, somewhat special guy, no question, and not at all malicious, but his company became intolerably stressful. Also, he developed a habit of reprimanding me. For example, if I voiced a mildly negative thought—“This coffee is too weak,” say, or “I wish those bros would turn down the volume”—Billy would say something like “Dude, chill, you’re getting all snobby in your old age,” and say it with a weird laugh of anger. I kept wishing that my old friend would somehow change or wise up or move on, but if anything he doubled down on who he thought he was, with the result that, in the company of others especially, a kind of cartoon Minnesotan Billy came into being, an extremist of easygoingness who could be counted on to occupy the nice or feel-good side of any issue and make everyone else feel cynical and shitty by comparison. It took a drawn-out and horrible process of rejection by me of him to bring our relationship to an end. I really believe that the trauma surrounding that whole episode is why I was so enthusiastic about leaving the city, where I’d spent eight otherwise happy and productive years, in order to relocate to [REDACTED], where Samantha had a job offer from Wieden+Kennedy and I’d lined up a sweet-looking gig to develop software for a real-life startup that had as its goal the revolutionizing of the logistics industry.
Though incommunicado, Billy and I have remained friended on Facebook. That’s how I know he’s still in the tristate area, working as a regional sales director, which sounds hopeful. As does the fact that he’s married, with two daughters. But I really don’t want to be in touch with him again, unless it’s some kind of emergency.
Hey, Billy. All good? Looks like I’m back in N.Y.C. Samantha and I have split. Long story. Not good. Can’t talk about it without beers. Listen, can you do me a solid? I’m in a hole.
Then I type out my plea for a reference letter, and send it, and go to bed.
Travis I’ve texted:
No worries. Stand by.
This isn’t totally disingenuous. I’ve sent messages to two trustworthy people in [REDACTED]: my old startup comrade Halil, and Courtney, who is first and foremost Samantha’s friend but who I hit it off with independently, I feel. It’s not ideal to have out-of-towners as my referees, since there may be a perception that they won’t truly grasp the demanding norms that [REDACTED] co-operators abide by, but whatever.
Cousin Paul, in response to my reminder, e-mails:
Hi Rob so sorry about this could you write it for me?? Crazy busy . . . I’ll sign off to whatever you write . . . Thx . . .
In the morning, I see that Halil has still not responded. That’s not what I expected. When the startup finally collapsed, which happened roughly at the same second that my marriage did, Halil was the guy who went in for farewell eye-locking, chest-bumping, and expressions like “blood brother” and “muchacho.”
Courtney has got back to me:
Rob, this is difficult for me to write.
This past year I’ve been very close to Sam as she has gone through this difficult time. She has shared many things with me about what her experience has been. I have to say that I’ve found it painful on many levels. I feel bad that I wasn’t able to see what was going on and that I wasn’t there for her when she needed me. I owe her my focus now. So I’m going to have to recuse myself from what you’re asking for. This doesn’t reflect on you at all. This is just about me taking ownership of what I need to do.
What does this e-mail even mean? She wants to recuse herself? Who is she, Sonia Sotomayor?
I can only control the things I can control. Like writing Paul’s letter. That’s something I can take care of right away.
But patting myself on the back, even through an alter ego, is challenging. For support, I go online. There I find plenty of helpful pro-forma character references, though they’re for people in situations different from mine—i.e., people who are applying for jobs or internships or fellowships, not people seeking admission to a residential building.
I’ve got to say, I’m a little taken aback. I accept that I’m looking at fictitious documents and persons, but we’re in the realm of realism, surely, and the referrers, however invented, are quite outstanding. Joe is stellar and can-do and masterly and explains complex systems very well. Mary has grit and gentleness, compassion and superb forensic skills. Arturo is loyal, determined, and reasonable. The most powerful commendations tell little stories: how Emily showed terrific leadership during the power outage; how Ken handled an ultra-demanding client with the sensitivity and effectiveness that have come to be expected of him. The letter in support of Annie, written by her high-school teacher, is actually moving in its depiction of a young woman’s industriousness and precocious commitment to social justice. There are a lot of ethical, pleasant, and dependable people notionally out there. It’s intimidating, frankly. I had no idea the bar was so high.
When I get home from work, a tiny bit drunk after a few shots with Tariq, there’s a FedEx packet leaning against the door, and I see that it’s for me, and I rip the thing open. It contains an envelope. My name appears on the envelope, in Billy’s beautiful handwriting.
I get myself a beer and take a seat at Paul’s kitchen table.
Billy: when he came [REDACTED], he stayed with Samantha and me in Williamsburg until he found a room in [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] was out of the question; he had to have a [REDACTED] address. It was a question of dignity, I suppose, as was his insistence on having “wheels.” He was probably my only [REDACTED] friend with a car. This came to an end when he was involved in a small collision on the F.D.R. and had no option but to plead guilty to D.W.U.I. (weed) and accept a one-year revocation of his license. I accompanied Billy to court, wearing a suit and tie in solidarity. Afterward we lit up cigarettes on the steps of the courthouse, even though I’d quit smoking. We had a laugh at the expense of the prosecutor, an unfortunate-looking guy who I’d spotted in the bathroom earlier, mysteriously throwing up. Not much else was talked about. It was a sunny day, and we sat next to each other in our suits and shades, smoking and feeling good and, in our minds, looking good. There was something totally canned and anachronistic about the moment, of course, but it was special nonetheless, and for me the highlight of our friendship’s I’d have to say tragic [REDACTED] phase.
The envelope is high-quality ivory, as is the letter paper, which has been folded into perfect thirds. Billy’s really gone the whole hog. It being an official document, I wash my hands before I open and read it:
FUCK. YOU. ASSHOLE.
O.K.—that’s not nice. That is really quite hurtful.
Although, when I visualize Billy scheming and finessing all the details—the insult, the fancy notepaper, the same-day delivery—I have to smile.
It is with great pleasure that I commend Robert Karlsson to you. Robert and I have cohabited in my small apartment for several months. In all candor, it has been an entirely harmonious and agreeable experience. Robert has at all times been quiet, helpful, considerate, tidy, and charming—everything one could hope for in a fellow-resident. This comes as no surprise, since I have known Robert and his family for over twenty years. I vouch for him without hesitation or qualification. Any co-operative should feel fortunate to have him.
Please feel free to contact me at any time to discuss this matter further.
Yours truly, Paul Robson.
How easy was that? I’d even say it was enjoyable. And I don’t think it’s bullshit. Put it this way: I very much doubt that those whom it concerns will complain, down the road, that they were fundamentally misled, because what’s fundamental is what I’m like, not whether some statement about me is a lie that’s either white or off-white. I honestly believe that I’m someone who doesn’t make trouble, certainly not for my neighbors. To Whom It May Concern: Relax. Rob Karlsson will not make your life a misery. I have known him longer than just about anybody, and I should know. This is the guy who, as a fourteen-year-old Boy Scout, went on a two-day hiking trip in the Quetico wilderness with Simon Burch, and carried both his and Simon’s rucksacks on the five-mile return trek to base camp after Simon hurt his back. This is the guy who wouldn’t squeal on Wally Waters after Wally pushed him down the stairs and the principal demanded to know exactly what had happened. This Rob Karlsson is the Bobby Karlsson who pretended he’d hurt his throwing arm so that Carlos Rodriguez could finally pitch an inning. This is whom we’re concerned with here. With the first boy Amanda McAteer kissed, who never mentioned it to anybody, because Amanda didn’t want it to get around. Who in college volunteered for Citymeals-on-Wheels (albeit unreliably and briefly). Who definitely has no criminal record. Who is something of a sinner and a screwup, definitely, but whose “heart is in the right place,” according to a certain person with credibility on this issue. Who is co-operative by nature, as nobody can deny. Who refrains from unkindness when commenting online, even when drunk and using a pseudonym. Who was a good kid, his father once said. Who when little accompanied his father on rambles, and actually grew interested in wildflowers, learning about the common yarrow, the jack-in-the-pulpit, and the spoon-leaf sundew, which he remembers only because of their impressive names and not because they are identifiable by him, which they’re not. Who liked most of all to walk in the forest, in fact liked the word “forest,” though not as much as the word “glade,” and was always asking his father, Dad, is this a glade? 

