
Story, With Bird
By Kevin Canty
Somewhere near the end, she decided that the drinking was the problem. So we stopped cold, both of us, in the middle of February. One of those winters where the sky looms over the town like a gray roof that never changes. Old ice and blackened snow in the gutters. It was maybe a mistake.
It was maybe a mistake, but she might have been right, too. I have since stopped drinking for reasons of my own. But back then it was a test—as everything was a test—of how much we would endure in order to stay together.
And sober we stayed for the rest of the winter. It was interesting, in a way. It was a departure for us, from the long evenings of drinking and laughing and fighting and sex. We’d have some modest, healthful dinner and then watch a movie, and then it would seem like there was nothing else to do. She’d go to work in her little office downstairs and I’d go to bed and listen to the wind in the eaves, the branches scratching against the windowpanes. The days, of course, were actually better: no hangovers, lots of energy. I’d be up at six, before the dawn, and we were both getting a lot of work done. Yes, it felt penitential at times, but at other times it felt as if we had solved a problem, undertaken some new way of life, done an important thing and done it together.
This lasted until spring, until an evening in May. I was out on the porch, smoking a cigarette, enjoying the long, slow twilight of the northern spring, when I heard her scream inside the apartment. When I ran in, there was a bird flying around in circles above her head. I should explain about this apartment: it was very nice, very new, and the main part of it was open two stories up. The living room was a kind of gallery overhead, with the office and the bedroom underneath. The bird was circling in the middle of this grand open space, evidently in a panic, and she was trying to hit it with a broom. So far, she had knocked over a chair and a kettle.
I asked her to stop.
She wanted to know what I had in mind.
We were just at the point where everything is a contest—the right way to do the dishes, drive a car, chase a bird out of a room. She agreed to try the way my mother had taught me, so we opened all the windows and all the screens and shut the lights off and left the room. We sat outside and shared a cigarette. She was going to a wedding in [REDACTED] the next weekend. I knew better, but I asked her anyway: was she going to be drinking at the wedding?
Of course she was. Everybody was.
What about, you know—what we agreed to?
I’m not the one with the problem, she said. You’re the one with the problem.
I went for a walk after that remark, down by the river, the gravel path busy with dog walkers and cyclists and college girls playing with Frisbees in the twilight. I knew the grocery store next to the apartment would be open until eleven, and I turned the matter over in my mind: a nice Côtes du Rhône, maybe, or a rosé we liked that wasn’t too sweet. Either that or I could pick up a lime and some tonic water. We still had a bottle of [REDACTED] in the freezer, three-quarters full, which ought to tell you something about what we were doing.
If we were not in this together . . .
The bird was gone when I got home, and she was working in her office. I opened a bottle of club soda. There would be time for the rest of it later.
The bird came back, a few nights later. At least, I think it was the same bird. My knowledge of these things is at a kindergarten level: robin, seagull, magpie, crow. But this one had the same yellow breast and a round black spot on top of its head, as if it were wearing a beret.

It was a delicious spring night, and I had opened all the windows. I was sitting in a good chair under a lamp, with the rest of the house dark, sipping gin and reading one of her poetry books. This was when she was at the wedding, sleeping with her ex-boyfriend. I found out later. I read poetry about once a year, but this time I was looking for something, some secret or clue. That was the hunch I had, anyway, but what was between the covers just seemed like intelligent gibberish. I wanted some of the old heartbreak. I put her book back on her bookshelf, carefully, so she wouldn’t know I had taken it, so she wouldn’t know I had been looking for her secrets. I found my college copy of Auden and freshened my drink and settled in again: Hell is neither here nor there. . . . 
Just then the bird flew in. It circled under the big overhead fan, which was turning slowly but still worried me. I switched the fan off, then the reading light. The sound of wings in the dark was stirring. Then the fluttering stopped, and I thought it had left, but when I turned the light back on I knew it was in the room somewhere. I just had a feeling of being watched. And there it was, up on the railing of the living room, staring down at me. I could barely make out its shape, but I saw its eyes, glittering.
Animal eyes in the dark.
It wasn’t like the bird was going to hurt me or anything, but its presence made me uneasy, so I went out onto the porch with my poetry and gin. Whatever had made the Auden seem possible indoors, under a quiet solitary light, didn’t work at all in the warm expanding evening, and I put the book down and concentrated on my gin. When I went back in to refresh my drink, I couldn’t tell whether the bird was still there. In the refrigerator light, I had a creepy feeling that it might land on my back or my head, so I went outside again with my drink and my thoughts. I was thinking about the things I was afraid of: the likelihood of loss, of loneliness. But then I found myself remembering another time: a road trip we’d taken down through the mountains, she and I, that had wound up in a derelict hot springs at the end of a dirt road. The lodge was gray and tumbledown. The hippies who ran the place seemed to be waiting for something that wasn’t going to come. They had a blank-eyed, resigned look, the kind you see in the survivors of a tsunami or a typhoon. Suffering that doesn’t even know its own name.
After ten o’clock only guests of the lodge were permitted in the pool, and we seemed to be the only guests. This is what I remembered: going out in our bathrobes, taking the bathrobes off, entering the warm water naked, feeling it close around our bodies. It was the edge of fall, so the air was cold, and steam rose from the warm water. We were touching. We were hidden by the steam, and no one was watching anyway, and then sometimes the steam would thin out or vanish completely and we’d get a brief glimpse of a brilliant night sky with clear, clean, glittering stars before the mist rushed in again. And then I was inside her, on the steps at the far end of the pool, half in and half out of the water, so there seemed to be no distinction between my body and hers, between water and air, and we were moving slowly against each other, no hurry, when the steam parted and there, a few feet away, staring directly at us, was a buck with a big spread of antlers and a few of his harem.
Animal eyes in the dark.
No human eyes could see us, and we didn’t stop. But I think we both felt those animal eyes on us as we were moving in the dark, in the space between air and water. It changed the thing, somehow. I could remember that feeling, sitting out there on my porch. She and I and the watching deer. It changed the thing.
I woke at first light, six or so, with a dull ache behind my eyes and a tremendous thirst. Every window in the house was still open and a cool breeze, almost cold, blew through the apartment. The bird was gone.
At least, I didn’t see it as I went from window to window, closing the house up. Nor did I find it later, as I was tidying the apartment. She was due back from the wedding that evening, and I wanted everything to be nice for her return. The sinks and counters and so on. It was a very pretty place, and we had furnished it together, though it was more her taste than mine. It was never going to be clean enough to make a difference between us, but I kept at it till it sparkled.
I was expecting what? Nothing good. I was trying not to think about it.
But when she came out of security she was happy to see me, and I saw right away how beautiful she was, and how I loved her. That smile when she saw me! Later, she told me how miserable she had been, and I believed her. But I also knew that smile, those moments of pure feeling, plain happiness. And the answering happiness in me.
On the way home, she asked me to stop at the liquor store, and she bought a fresh bottle of [REDACTED], and when we got home she led me into the bedroom and took her clothes off and pulled me down onto the bed, which I didn’t need to be talked into: quick, hot, careless fucking. Afterward she went to the kitchen naked and made us each a gin-and-tonic, the way she liked it, with too much gin and too much lime and just a splash of tonic water, and she handed the glass to me and said, Hello, stranger.
We had a few weeks of this. I wasn’t really expecting more, to tell the truth. All the nickels had already dropped in all the slots. We ate butter and steaks and ahi tuna that cost twenty-four dollars a pound, we drank French champagne and Russian vodka, we fought like two cats in a bag and then made up at three in the morning and had sloppy, sentimental sex. We played Scrabble in the small hours of the night, just the two of us. We smoked cigarettes until our lungs felt like sandpaper. The world divided itself into the drinking and the hangover, day and night, and we lived for the nights, the ones that ended in a blank place, half a memory to wake up to.
And then it was summer. We packed the car with pink wine and sandwiches, apples and paperbacks, and headed south on two-lane highways, skipping the interstates in favor of the little towns of wandering dogs and cheerful bartenders. Her bare feet up on the dashboard. White peaks in the distance, sage flats in the sunlight, shimmering toward the horizon. We stayed in one-of-a-kind motels, the Bavarian Inn in Sun Valley, the Shady Grove Motor Court in Mexican Hat. We wound up following the Dolores River south, through red-rock canyons stained with ancient creosote, looking for rock art high up on the canyon rim. We saw little dancing men and stars and constellations engraved on the walls.
I dropped her at the airport in [REDACTED] and went on south, to stay with my sister in [REDACTED]. She flew home to pack her things and go.
We didn’t get married, though both of us had thought we would. And we never got a dog. We’d wanted one, but we’d never agreed on a breed: she wanted a corgi, and I wanted a golden retriever. It’s strange the way those plans we made are still floating out there, without us. The possibilities. What if I had agreed to the corgi? What would have happened after that?
I knew as soon as I got home from [REDACTED] that I would not be able to stay in that beautiful apartment. She was everywhere, not just in the furniture and the mirrors and the art on the walls—she’d left in a hurry, like a woman fleeing a burning city—but in the plans we’d made and never carried out. I found a graduate-student couple to take over the lease and got a little house across town—nice enough, but no match for that apartment.
The night before I moved, I made myself a gin-and-tonic and went from room to room, looking at all the absences: empty bookshelves, closets. The floral smell of her various products and potions still hung in the air. Every molecule of the place was hers. I took my drink out on the porch and sat in one of the two chairs, the other one empty. It was a delicate cool summer night, a little hint of the coming fall. I could get whatever kind of dog I wanted now. I could have a drink anytime. But, as I thought this, I also understood that without her there to keep me company, without her there to argue with me about it, there wouldn’t be any point to it pretty soon. And I was right about that. 

