The Empties
By Jess Row
She had never perfected the trick of moistening the envelope flap with the tip of her tongue so it would stick and lie perfectly flat. In those days, perfect meant as if untouched by hands. Her flaps were always overwet and lumpy; when she pressed them down, she made them worse. Still, she loved folding the paper twice over, into three equal parts; she loved writing addresses, but especially her name and address in the upper-left corner. J. Seiden. 29 Portnock Road. The dignity, the businesslike efficiency of these slim objects, asking nothing, never disclosing more than they needed to. An envelope with only a check inside flapped like a flag, but an envelope containing a two-page letter had a solid integrity on every plane. A writer only in the sense that she loved having written. She slid the envelopes under the metal lid of the mailbox on her parents’ porch and stared at them for a few moments. Proof of her existence in the world. Proof the world existed. You could count on it: someone was coming to take them away. Proof you would be sent, proof you would arrive.
She’s sitting with Quentin at the Caf Café, set up under an enormous beech tree next to the South Royalton charging tower—a collection of salvaged plastic tables and chairs and a wheelbarrow cut up and welded into a wood-burning stove. The café serves mostly sassafras and stinging-nettle tea, but now and again there are red-market goods, unearthed from a collapsed house or a forgotten box in the pantry: half-rotted Lipton bags or dented cans of Bustelo two years past their expiration date. Dorrie, the owner, is a strict no-currency Vore, and you have to know her to get in on the bartering for the really good stuff. But it’s worth biking the seven miles just to bask in the shade of Quentin’s unrepentant optimism. Quentin is a Resurrectionist, a money hoarder. Before that, before the last supplies ran out, he traded unleaded on the red market. He’s the last one left in South Royalton with a working laptop, a silver incongruity whenever he takes it from its case and plugs the white cord into the charging tower’s concatenation of rusting cables. Five minutes of charge keeps the battery alive. People stare at him until he anxiously gathers the laptop up and slips away. Not that anyone would steal it. They just don’t want to be reminded. This isn’t fucking Starbucks, some crusty Vore always mutters.
She herself takes a bag of nails everywhere she goes, bound up with fraying rubber bands. Everybody needs nails, and the Rumsons left boxes and boxes of them, sorted by size and type, in the basement. Her basement. Though only in the most accidental sense: it was Nathan who’d found the house, as a caretaker gig on Craigslist.
Anyway, Quentin’s saying, I was down at the Grange listening to these guys arguing about the difference between dystopia and apocalypse. Can you believe that? One of them was saying that we were living in a dystopian novel, and the other guy, big bearded dude, from the West Rats Collective, said, No, dystopia means an imaginary place where everything is exactly wrong, and what we’re living in is a postapocalyptic, prelapsarian kind of thing, you know, a return to nature after the collapse of society as we knew it. Want some?
He unscrews a Burt’s Bees tin and holds it out to her. Pine sap—milky, resiny, the consistency of caramel. People say it’s almost as good as Nicorette. She shakes her head. He scoops some onto his thumbnail.
And I must have been three or four shots in—we were drinking Wayne Peters’s sweet-potato vodka—because I said, Look, kiddos, the truth is neither, because we have no idea what might happen, the infrastructure is still basically in place, especially if people from certain collectives hadn’t stripped out the copper over in White River—
No copper, no charging tower, she says.
—but my point is really that dystopian and postapocalyptic narratives are narratives, that is, stories: things that are inherently invented or collated ex post facto. Narratives are static. Real life is, is—
Kinetic?
The point is, we need to just let all that shit go, because, call it End Times or whatever you want, things are different now. None of the old endings played out, did they? So we have to imagine new endings. Hence the possibility for hope.
They must have gone easy on you.
They just started crying. That’s the sad thing. Haven’t seen so much crying since August of ’15. Some people, you get a little liquor in them and it’s all about the old times. They want to huddle up and sing Lady Gaga. 

The dark is thickening now. Dorrie clanks her step stool from one low-hanging branch to another, lighting the candles inside each red glass globe. Tomas, the glassblower, held out for almost two years, firing the furnace with the last of his stored L.P.G., then with wood, making thick, indestructible goblets and candle lanterns, heavy and irregular as stones. He’d had exhibits at the Met and the Louvre, had made Christmas ornaments for the White House; now he’s buried under a cairn up on Hull Mountain, dead of spring dysentery.
He’s right, she’s thinking, we have no story for ourselves, we’ve outlasted the predictions, we’re too boring to be apocalyptic. But what would hope mean, after all that’s happened? Hope for whom? Quentin’s current theory has something to do with Caspar Weinberger, fallout shelters, server farms, and the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. I’m the town crank, he told her once, swigging from a gallon jug of cider on her porch, his face ribboned with tears.
If she didn’t want to spare his feelings she would tell him—the way only one liberal-arts college graduate can say to another—that the problem isn’t just narrative. It’s theory. The era of sense-making itself has passed. We don’t need an analyst, she thinks, or an oracle, God forbid; we need a chronicler, a town recorder, a church Bible full of births and deaths. An inventory with a few highlights, one or two safety tips. A bit of incidental knowledge for whoever comes along next. But who has the hours to sit parked at a desk, smithing words, when there’s ten pounds of berries in buckets on the porch, waiting to be picked over and dried on sheets in the sun?
I do.
It’s nearly September. Two years E.T., they’ve taken to saying, End Times, as versus B.E.T., Before End Times. Most days the café is empty, Dorrie asleep under a canopy stitched together from banner ads she salvaged from the Catamounts’ baseball field: Petco, Ledyard Bank, Murphy’s Ace Lumber, National Life. Work now or starve in March. But I, she thinks, I’ve hit the jackpot, haven’t I? Only my one mouth to feed, a roof that doesn’t leak, three cords of seasoned wood in the barn, a stone-solid immune system, and hands striated and shiny with scar tissue, hands that can pluck a boiled Mason jar out of a scalding bath. Hands no man would ever love.
The charging towers themselves—top-heavy, buttressed with scrap girders, bits of fencing, broken truck axles—hold ten or twelve solar panels each. The larger ones, like Royalton, have a turbine, too. Whirligigs, Quentin says, works of folk art, the last temples, the only evidence they’ll find when we’re gone. Built last summer, the second summer, by a group of restless contractors who’d commandeered the Cumberland Farms and its gas tanks. There was a retired engineer from NBC, Davis something, who’d insisted on welding a radio and a TV antenna to each one. She was there the day they flipped the switch. There was only static, snow, the white-noise waterfall of empty air. People wept. Davis left his equipment to rust where it stood and vanished from town. Died later that summer, people said, eating bad freshwater crabs out of the Winooski.
At first there were long lines to charge every conceivable device—battery-powered fans were a big one, of course, PlayStation Portables, dialysis machines (how could anyone survive a year without one?), even vibrators. Twenty minutes a turn, no questions asked. Now the towers sit unused much of the time. Only the diehard and desperate rely on anything electric. There’s a nurse from Woodstock who pedals nearly thirty miles with a homemade charger for hearing-aid batteries.
When Dorrie set up the Caf Café, she had a supply of light bulbs and a working refrigerator; a hundred people camped out under the tree every night, holding out for a glass of weak tea with one precious ice cube. There were jugglers, Dobro players, fire eaters, reciters of Shakespeare. Caffeine brought out the best in people. There were plans, speeches, meetings. There was going to be a new society in the ashes of the old. But then August rolled into September: you didn’t need a calendar to smell the change in the air. Wood-gathering season. Nothing like the terror of that first night, when the cold lapped under the blankets like a rising sea. People all went back to their holes, Dorrie said to her. Back to their bathtub whiskey and skunk weed. They remember what last winter was like. We’ll lose another twenty per cent this year, that’s my prediction. It’s the winnowing.
She thought of the smell a body has after it’s lain outside all winter, frozen in a block, even the eyes frozen, the vitreous humor turned to marble, and then the spring thaw hits.
Lucky it’s only me, then, she said, and I’ve been splitting maple all summer.
Oh, honey, Dorrie said. I didn’t mean you. God knows I didn’t mean you.
H_ere is a thing that happened today_, she wrote at the top of every page of a kelly-green Kate Spade journal, those first few weeks after the blackout. It had been a twenty-first-birthday gift, too pretty to throw away, though she rarely wrote anything by hand, so it had stayed at the bottom of one closet after another for fifteen years. Once her laptop went dead, she unearthed it and afterward kept it under her shirt at all times, in a special sling made of two “Eat More Kale” T-shirts sewn together. Here is a thing that happened today. It was the only possible way to begin when the last of the cell towers stopped working. Spoke to Mom in [REDACTED] yesterday, she wrote, should have tried again. Russell Tyson had his pickup parked on the town green with three generators running in the back, and people were paying twenty dollars for ten minutes of battery life, coaxing their phones back to a single bar, running fingers through their newly matted hair.
A few days later, the gravel around the green was littered with shards of thin, luminous glass: shattered smartphone screens, as disposable now as crack vials had been on North Avenue back in high school.
In those dirty days, she thinks, we were all Resurrectionists—even the most dyed-in-the-wool vegan bicyclists still had Tumblrs to update, still needed ice in their fair-trade coffee on an August afternoon, and a monthly refill of Ritalin in a stapled paper bag from the Rite Aid in Norwich. What was it like to spend every moment a little on edge, thinking that any time now the radio would beep, the air-conditioner begin to whir, the lights flood the sullen filthy rooms? What it was like, as a practical matter, was stinky. No one wanting to admit that they needed to go take a bath in the creek. No one wanting to volunteer to build the town latrine. No one who knew how to build a latrine. After the third week, people pissed and shat by the side of the road, in the open. It was Elizabethan. And left little white flags of T.P. everywhere you looked.


That was the worst of it: the weeks of withdrawal when the coffee had run out, then the tea, the cigarettes, the Adderall, the Wellbutrin and Ativan, the Paxil and Zoloft. Here is a thing that happened today. She did a tally and counted twenty-three suicides. People disappeared into the woods, carrying knives, plastic bags, rubber bands. Or jumped off the White River Bridge on I-91. It was September, Indian summer, the leaves flaming out, the first nippy nights. The commuters, the office workers, the secretaries and actuaries and lawyers, walked around the town green in a daze, waiting for a sign. The farmers were all hard at work, running out the last diesel in their tractors. Some kids moved into the United Church and hung out a banner: “Occupy Blackout.”
There was a girl, she remembers, who went up on the grassy hillside behind the Montessori school with a basket of scraps and a pair of scissors and began re-creating her Pinterest page, squares of bright cloth for each jpeg, strips of blue sheet for the tool bar and browser frame.
One night at the beginning of that first winter—it must have been early in December, Nathan out laying the useless snares he’d built from an illustration in “The Homesteader’s Manual”—she panicked when the fire wouldn’t start in the kitchen stove and tore out pages in the journal, two or three at a time, as tinder. The living-room shelves sagged with books she could have used for the same purpose—“The Road Less Traveled,” “4974616c79 on $5 a Day”—but at that moment, she thinks, forgiving herself, no one would have wanted to move a single extra muscle. In the winter, when you’re cold, the world extends no more than a foot in any direction. Anyway, she thinks, no one cares about that stuff. The cheap pathos of children losing their toys. Not about the old dead life: only about the life that took its place.
She finds Matilda Barnstone in her rocking chair on the library porch, smoking a pipe, her sawed-off shotgun resting comfortably across the floral sprigs of her lap. The library is the only building left in town with a working lock, chicken wire nailed across the windows. People might share their last finger of motor oil, Matilda says, break a four-inch candle in two, divide a pot of beans to serve eight, but they’ll kill you for a book. She sleeps in the basement with a Glock under her pillow. No lending anymore; all books stay on the premises, which means an old schoolhouse groaning on its joists, two floors, people in every nook, sweating, stinking, swatting flies, licking their thumbs as they page through Maeve Binchy and C. P. Snow, Louis L’Amour and George Santayana. Everyone gets patted down before leaving. Matilda blows out a blue cloud of corn-silk smoke and says, Haven’t seen you here in an age. Still working through the stash at the Rumsons’?
Never thought I’d get into Trollope. I’ve read ten so far.
Beats Tom Clancy. We take donations, you know.
Once I get someone to lend me a horse and some saddlebags.
Mmm.
Listen, she says, Matilda, there’s a typewriter in the back office, right?
Was last I checked.
Is there paper for it? Ribbons?
Matilda regards her with a faint smile.
I’m working on a town history, she says. August of ’15 to the present. A record. There ought to be a record.
An oral history.
Not quite. Just a record. Written by me.
Who’s going to read it?
Why, she says, it’ll stay here. In the library. For the next generation. For history.
Did I hear right? Did you say the next generation? I never took you for a Resurrectionist. Matilda sits up straight in the chair. There is no history, she says. That’s over now. No writing, only reading.
But we have a story, too.
We had a story. She rocks vigorously. Now we’re just poor, she says, outside time. Lumpen proletariat. The subaltern. Outside history. And let’s hope history never finds us again. We’ll be squashed like bugs on a windshield.
Then a thought seems to strike her.
Stay here for a moment, she says. She shoulders the sawed-off and disappears inside. Carter, she hears Matilda bellowing, no pissing out the window, please. Use the latrine. Matilda reappears with a thick padded envelope. Here, she says. Inside there’s a stapled stack of white paper, a manuscript.
Shroud of the Hills
a novel
by
Matilda E. Barnstone
COPYRIGHT 2003
Sent it to some contests, Matilda says. A few agents, one or two M.F.A. programs. No bites. No notice. Kept getting afraid someone would steal my ideas. Anyway, you can use it.
Use it how?
Turn it over, dimwit. Use the back. That’s three hundred and thirty-two pages of blank paper.
You don’t have another copy?
What would I need it for? Leave it in the library and eventually some poor unfortunate soul would read the thing. Got pens?
A whole box of ballpoints. Haven’t hardly used them since.
Make me look good is all I can say.
At home, later, after she’s weeded the tomatoes, harvested the last of the string beans, hauled a load of wash down to the stream and spread it out over the long grass, she sits on the porch with a jar of cold well water and begins:
Before the last blackout the power had been on and off for weeks.
I came up to Burlington in 2007 after a bad breakup in [REDACTED].
It wasn’t until Brian Sterling died, in February of the first winter, that we knew we were doing it wrong.
All that paper, glorious and terrifying. She riffles the stack through her fingers. She wonders where her laptop is. Heaped in the back of a closet somewhere, upstairs, with all the other dead things they weren’t able to cannibalize: the surge protectors and headphones, Nathan’s guitar amp, their digital cameras and printers, iPods, iPads, the Rumsons’ Tivoli stereo receiver and Harman Kardon speakers. Before End Times, she’d never written anything on paper longer than a single sheet. Even when she kept a journal her hand cramped up. In college, her writing tutor told her not to think essay, not to think paragraph, just think in thought bubbles like comic strips and type them in big letters, hitting print, print, print every time, then spread them out across the floor and let the essay appear.
God, she says out loud, not for the first or the thousandth time, the way we built everything on waste.
Now she feels she can’t afford a single wasted sheet. It ought to just come to her. Not because she’s such a genius. No, because she’s the only one, the town scribe, the voice of the people. The living and the dead.
For the first few months, before November came and the snow started, you’d still have people rumbling into town in cars, pickups, motorcycles—especially motorcycles, because a gallon of gas went so much farther that way. One of the occupiers would climb up and clang the church bell with a hammer, bringing people running from every direction, skidding their bikes, banging strollers along the rutted sidewalks. Mic checkwould come the cry, and then the waves of news in little sentence bundles, tweets amplified in waves through the crowd.
[REDACTED] is almost empty there are rats running down [REDACTED]
I’m just on my way to look for my kid in Burlington her name’s Shelby just started at U.V.M. don’t know what it’s like up there
Police station torched in [REDACTED]; all the riot gear was stolen
The Chinese are still flying planes into J.F.K.
Cholera outside [REDACTED], must have been in the water, all southern suburbs, hundreds dead in [REDACTED], Watertown
fema set up all these orange tents in [REDACTED] then disappeared
In [REDACTED] there’s a warehouse full of Wonder bread, ration cards being issued
I’ve got three bottles of iodine here, one drop for a gallon of water should be enough
Met a guy in [REDACTED] who had a basement full of batteries for his radio—said he could get only one station, and it was just the same crazy announcer every day, jabbering about a coup
Look out for a woman with a beetle tattooed on her wrist
I’m a doctor if you have spare antibiotics anything empty your medicine cabinets
It was all so random, you might hear five tendrils of the same rumor in a week, each cancelling out the last, and it was almost a relief when the cars and motorcycles stopped coming. People who lived out near the highway still reported seeing vehicles flashing by every now and again, but it was one a day, at most. There was talk of throwing up a checkpoint, a barrier, of collecting tax in some form, but once December started no one had time to think about it. All you heard was the smack of axe on wood. What did people do, she thought, in the places where the old houses had been torn down, where the split-level ranches had baseboard heat and there wasn’t a woodstove to be hauled in fifty miles? Thank God for [REDACTED] and its fucking quote rustic unquote charm, Nathan used to say. Every house had a chimney, some two.
Families moved in together that winter; couples learned to grapple in a twin bed or a single sleeping bag. She and Nathan piled up all the comforters in the house, every Boba Fett blanket from the Rumsons’ kids’ rooms, even the decorative handmade quilts from [REDACTED] that lined the second-floor hallway; it took her breath away, sliding under twenty pounds of thread and batting, but then she curled up against his shoulder blades, letting him take the weight. She’d never been much for spooning before, but it was a month for counting all your advantages. George Larson converted his barn into a smokehouse and slaughtered every alpaca, llama, and goat on his property, excepting the three best milkers and one buck, walking the piles of smoked meat through town in a wheelbarrow, taking anything he could get as barter: family portraits, Rambo knives, bales of cloth diapers, canned peas, stacks of old Rolling Stones.
In the spring there were no reports of cars anywhere.
She wonders what it would be like to see one again. After nearly two years. A car that moved, not a rusting carapace on blocks. Her own car, a ’99 Subaru, she’d traded to Dwight Yardley; he made it into a spare chicken coop.
It was one of those tidbits you picked up in middle-school history: the Middle Ages ended when trade began, when roads were built—or rebuilt, the Roman roads—because merchants carried firsthand accounts from town to town, hamlet to castle. B.E.T., she had never made the connection between movement and the news, between cars and information, but how she’d loved the drive to Brattleboro, back when she was temping at Dryvins Parker three days a week, and the richness of the FM signal that boomed through the car: You’re listening to “All Things Considered.” I’m Robert Siegel. And I’m Michele Norris. In [REDACTED] today, government reprisals claimed new victims, but first we’re going to take you to Botswana for a report on new ways to treat waterborne parasites. It was one of the great pleasures of the age, to be safe and warm and dry—showered, deodorized, professionally clothed in espadrilles and a linen jacket, latte steaming up the radio display, taking in the world’s troubles three minutes at a time. That was luxury.
Dwight Yardley finds her asleep on the porch the next morning, in the hammock he built for her, the manuscript pages held down by a smooth river stone. Guess that’s why they call it a sleeping porch, he says, setting down the milk crate with a solid clump. Protein, she thinks, swimming out of her dream. Protein has arrived.
Didn’t think you’d be here this early.
It’s high summer now. Got to be up with the rooster, then sleep through siesta. World doesn’t stop heating up just because we’re unplugged. Hotter every year since I can remember.
They’ve had the same conversation a hundred times. Dwight is not imaginative in his ways. Thank God.
Eggs this week, he says. Netted some crappie and smoked those. Mushrooms. Threw some more jerky in there, too. Know you’re sick of it, but still.

Moose are scarce now, is what he’s saying. And wickedly labor-intensive. She’s never been on one of the group hunts, but Quentin went once, with five other guys. Too big to be hauled away by anything smaller than a pickup, a moose has to be field-butchered, apportioned to the team where it falls. In practice, Quentin says, this means standing around in an inch of blood-soaked snow, like something out of “Fargo,” working frantically to beat nightfall. He sharpened knives all day, that was his task, wiping them against his pants and scrubbing them across the whetstone. For dinner they roasted the heart; it was enough to feed all six of them. Then they hauled the whole bloody mass out, wrapped up and lashed in tarps to the saddles of their horses. It was like Cormac McCarthy, Quentin says, crossed with “The Clan of the Cave Bear.” But you did it, she said, you played your part. Didn’t that make you want to cross over and become a Vore, even for a second? And he said, Are you fucking kidding me? I had nightmares for a week. Eating moose still makes me a little queasy. We’ve advanced since the Pleistocene. That’s the whole point.
Your appointment’s this week, she tells Dwight. Want to come inside?
Can’t we do it out here?
In the hammock? Only if you want to repair it.
He grins at her. I was thinking of you leaning over the rail, he says. Got to looking at some of my old magazines.
Oh, Dwight. You know I’m shy.
No one’s around to see.
Being so early, it takes him awhile to get going, she has some massaging and cooing to do, even puts him in her mouth for a minute, but in the end, with her skirt hiked up over her hips, elbows digging into the flaking paint, he’s done before the third grunt. Sorry, he says, pulling up his Carhartts, that’s no way for a gentleman to behave.
We can go again if you like, she says, spreading her knees and wiping unashamedly with her bandanna. I didn’t even get out the egg timer.
Don’t tease. You know I’m good for one a day, if that.
Bet you tell that to all the girls.
She wonders how many there really are. The thing about arrangements is everyone has one, but nobody wants to talk about it. That’s what Quentin says. There’s no transparency in informal economies.
She remembers what it was like, the transparent world. Walking into a 7-Eleven and looking down the row of coolers, all that glass, all that pure water. Had a vasectomy years back, Dwight said, the first and only time they talked terms, so nothing to worry about on that score. Plus it’s only been me and Angela. How was she to know that she wouldn’t be puking in a month, heavy with another Yardley in the spring? By demanding his medical records? Asking him to go to Rite Aid and get a pack of Trojans?
We used to say “oppression” only when we talked about the government. Having to survive is also oppression. Necessity is oppression.
Dignity is for people who have options.
We were working so hard to get back to the land; then the land got us back and won’t let go.
I would give anything to drink coffee out of a Styrofoam cup. Instant coffee with powdered creamer, the kind they gave out for free at car dealerships and funeral homes. I would give anything to throw something away and never see it again. I think about taking out the trash the way we used to at home, rolling it out to the curb, the trucks passing while we were at school. We are our garbage, Mom always used to say, that was her mantra, and I guess she was right in her way.
In the first couple of weeks there were big piles of trash outside every house. All the stuff you couldn’t find another use for and couldn’t compost. Yogurt cups, torn trash bags, dirty diapers, hair-spray cans, paper towels. Sometimes you’d see a pile that was as high as your waist. Nathan said it was a purge, a cleanse. But you could just as well say that who we were went out with the empties. We will never get our selves back.
In those days all the terms we had were metaphors. A desktop wasn’t a desktop. Mail wasn’t mail. Dial didn’t mean to use a dial. Ringtones didn’t actually ring—
In the winter she dreams of forced-air heating, the whoosh of the furnace starting up, the rush through the vents, the toasty smell of radiators, and in the summer she dreams of A.C.: the blast of frigid air in your face when you turned the key in the car, the cool seeping through a new condo with central air and wall-to-wall écru carpets, even the oily dampness of an old window unit in an apartment on Second Avenue with sheets over the windows.
And then she thinks: that was the government. That was [REDACTED]. Air-conditioning of the mind. We found that out, didn’t we? Bob Perl, the Royalton postmaster, hung around the town green in an orange fema vest for weeks after the first blackout, showing everyone a thick binder labelled “Disaster Response in Rural Communities.” It said that the National Guard would be there within twenty-four hours. There were pictures of tanker trucks, rows of trailers, pallets of M.R.E.s.
This isn’t science fiction, Quentin says, because if it were we’d have the answers, we’d know what happened.
My parents saved everything I ever wrote, all my school projects, my dioramas, my research reports on alligators and elephants. That was what mattered when I was a kid. Good at art. Good at music. Good at lacrosse. Good at Tae Kwon Do. They had a closet to store all my stuff and then it turned into a separate room, the room that was Nana’s bedroom before she died. Boxes and boxes, labelled “J. Summer Camp Projects 1995.” Of course they kept Peter’s things, too. But I was older; they were obsessive about me.
As if they were auditioning me for Jewish sainthood or something.
There was this band that everyone listened to in high school, this creepy metal band, and when I got to Holyoke no one had ever heard of them. It must have been some kind of Westchester cult thing. All their songs were about global warming and the end of the world. This band, they were called Into Another, and their stuff was mystical, insane vegan science fiction. Robot whales and ghost pirates and how we human beings are like the dinosaurs, outdated, redundant: grown too large for our environment—I’m not saying it all made sense, but at least they were ahead of their time. They had this one song that ended, “We are the last of the loved ones.”
That’s it. We are the last of the loved ones.
Professor Fuller used to say that romantic love was an invention of the Renaissance because it takes so many resources and so much leisure time. Adolescence itself was basically invented by the randCorporation for marketing purposes in the early fifties.
They could afford to love me because Dad worked in [REDACTED] screwing widows out of their husbands’ life insurance. Because Grandpa Stein got the government to declare eminent domain on the Norimco Plant before the E.[REDACTED] designated it a Superfund site. Peter laid it out for me the night he graduated from law school. We’re a family of gangsters, he said. I mean, it’s great that Mom got Tarrytown to do municipal compost, and it’s awesome that you’re doing whatever you do up there, but just so you understand: they did a lot of dirty deeds so you could be pretend poor. Isn’t that what people call it now? [REDACTED] is like 43756261, a little socialist island saved by huge infusions of cash from abroad.
It hasn’t occurred to her to worry about Peter until now. A snapping turtle of a human being, a ridiculer, a fortress builder, with his Land Rover, his fancy skis, his JDate profile, his condo in McLean. She visited him there only once: an empty fridge, an elliptical machine facing a TV the size of a small barn, “Shark Week” playing endlessly on mute. The only certifiable yuppies in Royalton, the summer people, had stayed down in their houses on the far side of McIntosh Pond for months, until someone went down to check on them after the first frost and found them all starving, barricaded in their houses, convinced the townspeople were cannibalizing one another.
No, she decides, he must be dead. Dead for ages. Huddled by the door, still clasping his sand wedge, waiting for the lights to come back on.
Give me a break, she wants to say, rolling out of the hammock on an airless afternoon. The clanging of the church bell rolls across the silent valley in waves: it’s something out of “The Sound of Music,” something Bashō would have written a haiku about. There hasn’t been a peep from the churchers since last year. She thought they’d left town. Too difficult to heat the place, for starters. But someone is up in that belfry banging away. It could be a fire. That’s her best guess. Or a new outbreak.
Not news. She’s stopped thinking about news.
There’s already a group gathered at the charging station. People tethering horses on the green, toting babies on hips up Division Street. There’s a stranger, a new arrival; someone’s found him a crate to stand on and rolled him a cone out of poster board. He’s freshly bandaged, arm in a sling, his straggling gray hair held back by one of Dorrie’s scrunchies.
I was working in corporate headquarters in Norwalk, he’s calling out. Chief Sustainability Officer. Still have my business card here if you want to see it. Case you think I’m some nutcase. My kids were Wilson, [REDACTED], and Dylan. I’m thirty-eight years old. I’m not crazy. Listen to what I have to say, people.
We’re listening, someone calls out. Got nowhere else to be.
You’ve got a good thing going here, he says, looking around at the crowd. I heard as much. I heard there were places up in the mountains where people didn’t completely lose their shit. Not to say that we were such a total mess. Norwalk did relatively well, actually, for the first year and a half. It turns out the Salvadorean Mafia is really good at running a city with no centralized authority. They took over the Walmarts and the supermarkets. They enforced things. But supplies finally ran out, down to the last Lunchable, seriously. I was trying to learn to track the deer in our subdivision, but all I had was my grandfather’s service revolver. No dice. Our neighbors got one that was roadkill just over the wall on 95. We grilled it on my bench-press rack, tried to get the whole thing evenly well done. Then everybody got sick. Dylan went first. Lauren next. Wilson and [REDACTED]—
His face swells up, a rictus of old grief.
I hit the road, he said, no reason to stay. Figured I’d come up here and see if I could find some kind of community. I made it as far as [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] was a mess. Big piles of trash everywhere and roadblocks of old sofas every few blocks. Came across a natural-foods store, still boarded up and mostly intact. I took some Kashi and soy-nut butter and went back up to the highway. And that’s when I saw it. The convoy.
Good one, she thinks, nice timing there. Like a monologue in one of those disaster movies. And then I saw it. The audience leans in.
It was this line of Humvees, he says, black Humvees, far as I could see. The bigger boxy ones, troop transports, I guess, and ordinary semis, no markings, no license plates, just white numbers and Q.R. codes on the side. Going north on 91, real slow. So I’m standing there, shading my eyes, getting my bearings, when one of the doors opens and a hand comes out and I hear this voice: Get in.
I mean, this convoy, it’s rolling like a slow freight train. I have to run, but I can make it, easily. So there’s two guys up on the front seat, the driver and a guy with a big gun between his knees, like something out of a movie, a rocket launcher, and they both have helmets with face shields on. Can’t see their faces at all. Where are you going? I ask. No answer. Who are you guys, anyway?
Keep your head down, the driver says. Stay quiet. We’re not supposed to pick up civilians.
It’s half a day before we make it as far as Northampton. Some of the Humvees and trucks peel off there. Then it’s sunset, evening, night, midnight, and we’re still chugging along. No headlights. I’m thinking we must have gotten at least as far as Brattleboro.
The guy next to me—rocket-launcher guy? He’s asleep. Or seems to be. Head tipped back, long sighing breaths.

We’re going as far as Burlington, the driver says all of a sudden. Securing the major population centers first. Whatever that means up here. Then we cover the countryside.
Who are you? I ask him again. The government?
Officially we’re Operation Restore Hope.
What the hell does that mean?
It means in about three months you get to eat French fries again, he says. And take a shit in an actual porta-potty. Six months, you’ll be back to watching “CSI.” But first we need to reëstablish central control. The rule of law. You’d be amazed at some of the crazy catastrophic shit that’s been going on out there. We’ve gotten reports of cannibalism. Pagan rituals. Starvation cults. Hence the heavy machinery. We have to be ready for anything.
If you’re the government, what took you so long?
Jesus, he says. Civilians. What took us so long? You should be asking, How’d you get here so soon? Have you noticed how radically things go to shit in this country when you turn off the juice for two hours? You ever notice how no one goes to college for electrical engineering anymore? We’ve been doing some serious fly-by-night MacGyver magic just to turn the lights back on in the White Zone. That’s Pennsylvania Avenue to Capitol Hill.
It’s all about priorities, rocket-launcher guy says, out of nowhere. Turns out he’s been listening the whole time. Perimeter the strategic areas, he says. I mean, what would you do? Country’s friggin’ dying, man, you have to triage the motherfucker. Airway, breathing, circulation. Get power to the head. Get somebody looking out from behind those eyeballs. So what if they call it the Executive Council now, not the President? Now we get the arteries flowing again. Gas. Bleach. Sugar. TV. Little by little, stepping things up. Start from the trunk and worry about the limbs later. And if the limbs die? Well, which would you rather have, no country or a quadriplegic?
They say [REDACTED]’s all easygoing, the driver says. But look what they said about [REDACTED]. In [REDACTED] we were fighting house to house. There aren’t probably three buildings left standing. I mean, I’m from [REDACTED]. What the hell do I know?
Enough, rocket-launcher guy says. Don’t scare him. Look, he says to me, we’re letting you out now. Go find some people and spread the word. Remember, it’s called Operation Restore Hope. We’ve got free stickers and water bottles and candy bars, but they’re all up in the front of the convoy. Just remember that name. And tell people, whatever they do, don’t resist, for fuck’s sake. It looks worse than it is.
The driver giggles. Resist, he says, and we’ll pulp you like hajjis.
What is this feeling, she’s wondering, this creeping numbness, knowing some disaster is happening in some faraway place when you’re standing there doing nothing? Not just ordinary fear: fear of winter, fear of sickness, fear of starving. Dread. That flushed-my-ring-down-the-drain sensation, like you can’t lift your arms. Like Bush in 2000. Wasn’t that where it all began, this feeling that there was a master plan, that maybe the crazies were right after all—the assassination freaks, the Chomskyites, the Y2Kers? Remember that song, back in the nineties? she wants to ask someone. In case she imagined it. The one that goes, We’ll make great pets?
Finally I realized the door was still unlocked, the man’s saying, the passenger-side door, and as soon as dawn came up, the first gray in the sky, I opened it and rolled out onto the grass and started running. And here I am.
So what’re you telling us? someone calls out.
Hide, he says. Go to ground. Be like the Vietnamese.
This is a bunch of crap, Dorrie says, but she’s anxious, chomping a stalk of ryegrass and twisting it around her index finger. It’s Psy-Ops. Bet you anything there’s a war party coming up from White River ready to steal our shit while we go hide in the bushes.
They’re standing around the Caf, mostly, some collapsed into chairs. A core of twenty or so. Dwight’s there, and Quentin. Matilda sits sunken in a chair, head in hands.
Oh Jesus, Quentin says, stop being such a Vore for a minute and admit you might be wrong. This guy’s [REDACTED] says [REDACTED]. Look, you seriously thought [REDACTED] was going to just, like, disappear?
He’s trembling, she realizes. Can’t keep his knees in place. His downy calves, his clean socks inside ancient, battered Doc Martens. An indefatigable doer of laundry, with a livid scar that runs the length of one forearm, from the first time he tried skimming the bubbling fat, making soap.
There are people who would bear anything, she thinks, to swipe a credit card again, to buy cut flowers, to see the straight furrows in a newly vacuumed carpet. You can’t have everyone mourning quietly on a small farm. Someone has to turn a shining face to the Resurrection, to translate loss into profit. That’s how we got cotton gins, and B-52s, and Tide.
Look, Matilda says. One thing we know. Someone’s coming. We haven’t seen the end of this. I’m proposing we arm ourselves and stay together. Who’s with me?
Me.
Me.
Me.
Me.
She raises her hand, as if to say not I agree but Present.
This isn’t the way this story ends, she tells herself, pedalling furiously over the last knobby hill before the Rumsons’ driveway. We’re not like Ewoks, rolling them over with logs, trapezing the soldiers out of their turrets on vines, huddling in tree houses, or like the Cong, trapping them in shit-smeared punji pits, feeding the prisoners to rats. This isn’t “Star Wars” and it isn’t “The Deer Hunter” and it isn’t “Independence Day.” We’ve got no reason to believe this guy. We’ve got crops to bring in, tomatoes getting soft on the vine, and we’re wasting time acting out “Red Dawn.”
But she’ll cycle back with the gun, because she knows she doesn’t want to be alone.
Mr. Rumson, who seemed like such a nice man, a mild-mannered professor of something, who evidently didn’t believe in sunscreen, the way his nose peeled—she’d met him the one time she picked up the key—he’d left the place well armed, nonetheless. A whole cabinet of guns, unlocked, up in his study, in the attic. She keeps a revolver lying next to her on the bed upstairs and, because Dwight insists, a shotgun in the corner just inside the front door. If a deer comes across the lawn, he says, don’t think twice. Aim for the head. And don’t worry about the butchering; I’ll hear the gun. That’s a year’s supply of meat for one skinny thing like you.
The gun she wants now is the scary one, with the folding stock and the banana clip. How does she even know those words? It’s surprisingly light, when she lifts it out by the strap. The clip slides in and locks just like plugging a battery into a camera. Idiot-proof.
She writes at the table on the porch, the assault rifle laid out just within reach:
Brian was the first person I’d ever seen die, and it was my fault, or at least I contributed. I mean, I didn’t get him sick, but Nathan said not to leave the fire burning so high with the windows closed.
I got better at it after that. For a while we served as the hospital, eleven or twelve patients at a time. There was no reason not to, all these big rooms downstairs and a good supply of wood, two stoves. Maxine was an herbalist and a Reiki healer and a [REDACTED], too; she stayed here three months, directing things. That was the best of it.
Then she came down with it and Nathan and I were left handling things on our own. Dwight brought food when he could and took the bodies out, but that was before the last blizzard, the March blizzard.
After Brian I got impatient with them as they died. Knowing that by the time the lips started turning blue there was no stopping it. Hurry up, I used to think, free up the bed. By the time it was Nathan’s turn I was just sloppy. Forgetting to bring him water for hours. Things like that. I was never cut out to be a nurse. There was snow banked halfway up the downstairs windows. Where was I supposed to put the bodies? I laughed at him. I laughed at Nathan when he begged me for things. He was delusional at the end, begging for Klondike bars.
I was never meant to have children I never wanted to.
This isn’t our story. There was supposed to be time to tell our story.
I was a decent person. I went to good schools. In my own time I would have been a good person. You can’t judge the people on the lifeboats, the crashed soccer players in the stupid Andes.
This is the last time a person will be one person what do I mean I mean a woman living in a house alone Dwight offered to have me stay with them the second winter and I said no I’ll cut my own wood no one stays with me this time I’ll stock up properly I’m immune now I guess so this is the last time I don’t know how to write without drafts I don’t know how to write a declarative sentence fuck it I don’t know how to declare anything at all
A boil of black smoke rises off the ridge opposite her.
The Macneils. What could they have out there—a forgotten oil drum, a pile of tires? Are they fighting already? Is it the Army? The people from White River? A grinding sound, a whining sound. Machinery. Is that what it is? It’s been two years; she can’t be sure.
And then, trickling through the air, a sick Morse code, a demented tap dancer: gunshots.
This is it, she thinks, not the End Times, the time of the end. What makes her so certain? I have been intimate with death, she thinks, that’s how I know. I can smell it, even on myself. She picks up the manuscript: fifteen pages. Scrawl. Notes. Hesitations. Matilda was right, she says to herself. We’re not the beginning of anything; we’re about to be pulped, right back into the ground. We’re about to reënter history.
We were good people. We made it work. We weren’t sad. We were proud. We didn’t need an ending. We were too grateful. Living was enough.
A flicker of wind, a sudden gust across the yard, takes the pages out of her hand; she doesn’t even have to toss them. White flags across the garden; perfect rectangles, perfect things, falling lightly on the gravel, resting in the tall grass. That’s done, she says. Picks up the rifle and lays it across her knees. 
