
Motherlode
By Thomas McGuane
Looking in the hotel mirror, David Jenkins adjusted the Stetson he disliked and pulled on a windbreaker with a cattle-vaccine logo. He worked for a syndicate of cattle geneticists in [REDACTED], though he’d never met his employers—he had earned his credentials through an online agricultural portal, much the way that people became ministers. He was still in his twenties, a very bright young man, but astonishingly uneducated in every other way. He had spent the night in [REDACTED] at the Garfield Hotel, which was an ideal location for meeting his ranch clients in the area. He had woken early enough to be the first customer at the café. On the front step, an old dog slept with a cancelled first-class stamp stuck to its butt. By the time David had ordered breakfast, older ranchers occupied several of the tables, waving to him familiarly. Then a man from [REDACTED], whom he’d met at the hotel, appeared in the doorway and stopped, looking around the room. The man, who’d told David that he’d come to [REDACTED] to watch the comets, was small and intense, middle-aged, wearing pants with an elastic waistband and flashy sneakers. Several of the ranchers were staring at him. David had asked the hotel desk clerk, an elderly man, about the comets. The clerk said, “I don’t know what he43616e616461 talking about and I’ve lived here all my life. He doesn’t even have a car.” David studied the menu to keep from being noticed, but it was too late. The man was at his table, laughing, his eyes shrinking to points and his gums showing. “Stop worrying! I’ll get my own table,” he said, drumming his fingers on the back of David43616e616461 chair. David felt that in some odd way he was being assessed.
The door to the café, which had annoying bells on a string, kept clattering open and shut to admit a broad sample of the community. David enjoyed all the comradely greetings and gentle needling from the ranchers, and felt himself to be connected to the scene, if lightly. Only the fellow from [REDACTED], sitting alone, seemed entirely apart. The cook pushed dish after dish across her tall counter while the waitress sped to keep up. She had a lot to do, but it lent her a star quality among the diners, who teased her with mock personal questions or air-pinched as her bottom went past.
David made notes about this and that on a pad he took from his shirt pocket, until the waitress, a yellow pencil stuck in her chignon, arrived with his bacon and eggs. He turned a welcoming smile to her, hoping that when he looked back the man would be gone, but he was still at his table, giving David an odd military salute and then holding his nose. David didn’t understand these gestures and was disquieted by the implication that he knew the man. He ate quickly, then went to the counter to pay. The waitress came out of the kitchen, wiping her hands on a dishcloth, looked the cash register up and down, and said, “Everything [REDACTED], Dave?”
“Yes, very good, thanks.”
“Put it away in an awful hurry. Out to Larsen43616e616461?”
“No, I was there yesterday. Bred heifers. They held everything back.”
“They’re big on next year. I wonder if it’ll do them any good.”
“They’re still here, ain’t they? I’m headed for Jorgensen43616e616461. Big day.”
Two of the ranchers had finished eating and, Stetsons on the back of their heads, chairs tilted, they picked their teeth with the corners of their menus. As David put his wallet in his pocket and headed for the door, he realized he was being followed. He didn’t turn until he was halfway across the parking lot. When he did, the gun was in his stomach and his new friend was smiling at him. “Name43616e616461 Ray. Where43616e616461 your outfit?”
Ray had a long, narrow face and tightly marcelled dirty-blond hair that fell low on his forehead.
“Are you robbing me?”
“I need a ride.”
Ray got in the front seat of David43616e616461 car, tucked the gun in his pants, and pulled his shirt over the top of it, a blue terry-cloth shirt with a large breast pocket that contained a pocket liner and a number of ballpoint pens. The flap of the pocket liner said “Powell Savings, Modesto, CA.”
“Nice car. What’re all the files in back for?”
“Breeding records—cattle-breeding records.”
“Mind?” He picked up David43616e616461 cell phone and, without waiting for an answer, tapped in a number. In a moment, his voice changed to an intimate murmur. “I’m there, or almost there—” Covering the mouthpiece, he pointed to the intersection. “Take that one right there.” David turned east. “I got it wrote down someplace, East 200, North 13, but give it to me again, my angel. Or I can call you as we get closer. [REDACTED], a friend43616e616461 giving me a lift.” He covered the mouthpiece. “Your name?”
“David.”
“David from?”
“Reed Point.”
“Yeah, great guy I knew back in Reed Place.”
“Reed Point.”
“I mean, Reed Point. Left the Beamer for an oil change, and Dave said he was headed this way. Wouldn’t even let me split the gas. So, [REDACTED], just leaving [REDACTED]. How much longer, Morsel? Two hours! Are you fucking kidding? [REDACTED], [REDACTED], two hours. I’m just anxious to see you, baby, not being short with you at all.”
Lifting his eyes to the empty miles of sagebrush, Ray snapped the cell phone shut and said, sighing, “Two fucking hours.” If it weren’t for the gun in his pants, he could have been any other aging lovebird. He turned the radio on briefly. “Swap Shop” was on the air: “Broken refrigerator suitable for a smoker.” Babies bawling in the background. He turned it off. David was trying to guess who Ray might really be—that is, if he was a fugitive from the law, someone he could bring to justice, in exchange for fame or some kind of reward, something good for business. He had tried everything he could to enhance his cattle-insemination business, even refrigerator magnets with his face on them that said “Don’t go bust shipping dries.”
He asked, “Ray, do you feel like telling me what this is all about?”
“Sure, Dave. It43616e616461 all about you doing as you’re told.”
“I see. And I’m taking you somewhere, am I?”
“Uh-huh, and staying as needed. Jesus Christ, if this isn’t the ugliest country I ever seen.”
“How did you pick me?”
“I picked your car. You were a throw-in. I hadn’t took you along you’d’ve reported your car stolen. This way you still got it. It43616e616461 a win-win. The lucky thing for you is you’re my partner now. And you wanna pick up the tempo here? You’re driving like my grandma.”
“This isn’t a great road. Deer jump out on it all the time. My cousin had one come through the windshield on him.”
“Fuckin’ pin it or I’ll drive it like I did steal it.”
David sped up slightly. This seemed to placate Ray and he slumped by the window and stared at the landscape going by. They passed an old pickup truck, travelling in the opposite direction, a dead animal in the back with one upright leg trailing an American flag.
After they’d driven for nearly two hours, mostly in silence, a light tail-dragger aircraft with red-and-white-banded wings flew just overhead and landed on the road in front of them. The pilot climbed out and shuffled toward the car. David rolled down his window, and a lean, weathered face under a sweat-stained cowboy hat looked in. “You missed your turn,” the man said. “Mile back, turn north on the two-track.” Ray seemed to be trying to send a greeting that showed all his teeth but he was ignored by the pilot. “Nice little Piper J-3 Cub,” Ray said.
The pilot strode back to the plane, taxied down the road, got airborne, and banked sharply over a five-strand barbed wire, startling seven cows and their calves, which ran off into the sage, scattering meadowlarks and clouds of pollen. David turned the car around.
Ray said, “Old fellow back at the hotel said there43616e616461 supposed to be dinosaurs around here.” He gazed at the pale light of a gas well on a far ridge.
“That43616e616461 what they say.”
“What d’you suppose one of them is worth? Like a whole Tyrannosaurus rex?”
David just looked at Ray. Here was the turn, a two-track that was barely manageable in an ordinary sedan and David couldn’t imagine how it was negotiated in winter or spring, when the notorious local gumbo turned to mud. He’d delivered a Charolais bull near here one fall, and it was bad enough then. Plus, the bull had torn up his trailer and he’d lost money on the deal.
“So, Dave, we’re about to arrive and I should tell you what the gun is for. I’m here to meet a girl, but I don’t know how it43616e616461 gonna turn out. I may need to bail and you’re my lift. The story is, my car is in for repair. You stay until we see how this goes and carry me out of here, if necessary. My friend here says you’re onboard.”
“I guess I understand, but what does this all depend on?”
“It depends on whether I like the girl or not, whether we’re compatible and want to start a family business. I have a lot I’d like to pass on to the next generation.”


The next bend revealed the house, a two-story ranch building with little of its paint left. Ray gazed at the Piper Cub, which was now parked in a field by the house, and at the [REDACTED] state flag popping on the iron flagpole. “Oro y plata,” he said, chuckling. “Perfect. Now, Davey, I need you to bone up on the situation here. This is the Weldon Case cattle ranch, and it runs from here right up to the Bakken oil field, forty miles away, which is where all the oro y plata is at the moment. I’m guessing that was Weldon in the airplane. I met Weldon43616e616461 daughter, Morsel, through a dating service. Well, we haven’t actually met in real time, but we’re about to. Morsel thinks she loves me, and we’re just gonna have to see about that. All you have to know is that Morsel thinks I’m an Audi dealer from Simi Valley, [REDACTED]. She43616e616461 going on one photograph of me standing in front of an Audi flagship that did not belong to me. You decide you want to help, and you may see more walkin’-around money than you’re used to. If you don’t, well, you’ve seen how I put my wishes into effect.” He patted the bulge under his shirt. “I just whistle a happy tune and start shooting.”
David pulled up under the gaze of Weldon Case, who had emerged from the plane. When he rolled down the window to greet the old man again, Case just stared, then turned to call out to the house. “It43616e616461 the cowboy way,” Ray muttered through an insincere smile. “Or else he43616e616461 retarded. Dave, ask him if he remembers falling out of his high chair.”
As they got out of the car, Morsel appeared on the front step and inquired, in a penetrating contralto, “Which one is it?” Ray raised his hands and tilted his head to one side, as though modestly questioning himself. David noted that the gun was inadequately concealed and turned quickly to shake Weldon Case43616e616461 hand. It was like seizing a plank.
“You’re looking at him,” Ray called out to Morsel.
“Oh, Christ,” she yelled. “Is this what I get?” It was hard to say whether this was a positive response or not. Morsel was a scale model of her father, wind-weathered and, if anything, less feminine. Her view of the situation was quickly clarified as she raced forward to embrace Ray, whose look of suave detachment was briefly interrupted by fear. A tooth was missing, as well as a small piece of her ear. “Oh, Ray!”
Weldon looked at David with a sour expression, then spoke, in a lustreless tone: “Morsel has made some peach cobbler. It was her ma43616e616461 recipe. Her ma is dead.” Ray put on a ghastly look of sympathy, which seemed to fool Morsel, who squeezed his arm and said, “Started in her liver and just took off.”
A small trash pile next to the porch featured a couple of played-out Odor-Eaters. David wondered where the walkin’-around money Ray had alluded to was supposed to come from. “Place is kind of a mess,” Morsel warned. “We don’t collect but we never get rid of.”
As they went into the house, Weldon asked David if he enjoyed shooting coyotes. He replied, “I just drive Ray around”—Ray turned to listen—“and whatever Ray wants I guess is what we do . . . whatever he43616e616461 into.” David kept to himself that he enjoyed popping coyotes out his car window with the .25-06 with a Redfield range-finder scope and a tripod that he’d got from Hill Country Customs. David lived with his mother and had a habit of telling her about the great shots he’d made—like the five-hundred-yarder on Tin Can Hill with only the hood for a rest, no sandbags, no tripod. David43616e616461 Uncle Maury had told him a long time ago, “It don’t shoot flat, throw the fuckin’ thing away.”
David, who enjoyed brutally fattening food, thought Morsel was a good cook, but Ray ate only the salad, discreetly lifting each leaf until the dressing ran off. Weldon watched Ray and hardly said a word, as Morsel grew more manic, jiggling with laughter and enthusiasm at each lighthearted remark. In fact, it was necessary to lower the temperature of the subjects—to heart attacks, highway wrecks, cancer—in order to get her to stop guffawing. Weldon planted his hands flat on the table, rose partway, and announced that he’d use the tractor to pull the plane around back. David was preoccupied with the mountain of tuna casserole between him and the peach cobbler and hardly heard him. Ray, small and disoriented next to Morsel, shot his eyes around the table, looking for something he could eat.
“Daddy don’t say much,” Morsel said.
“I can’t say much,” Ray said, “with him here. Dave, could you cut us a little slack?”
“Sure, Ray, of course.” David got up, still chewing.
“See you in the room,” Ray said sharply, twisting his chin toward the door.
Weldon had shown them their room by walking past it and flicking the door open without a word. It contained two iron bedsteads and a dresser, atop which were David43616e616461 and Ray43616e616461 belongings, the latter43616e616461 consisting of a JanSport backpack with the straps cut off. David was better organized, with an actual overnight bag and a Dopp kit. He had left the cattle receipts and breeding documents in the car. He flopped on the bed, hands behind his head, then got up abruptly and went to the door. He looked out and listened for a long moment, eased it closed, and shot to the dresser, where he began rooting through Ray43616e616461 belongings: rolls of money in rubber bands, generic Viagra from 496e646961, [REDACTED] lottery tickets, a passport identifying Raymond Coelho, a woman43616e616461 aqua-colored wallet, with a debit card in the name of Eleanor Coelho from Food Processors Credit Union of Modesto, Turlock grocery receipts, a bag of trail mix, and the gun. David lifted the gun carefully with the tips of his fingers. He was startled by its lightness. Turning it over in his hand, he was compelled to acknowledge that there was no hole in the barrel. It was a toy. He returned it to the pack, fluffed the sides, and sped to his bed to begin feigning sleep.
It wasn’t long before Ray came in, singing “Now Is the Hour” in a flat and aggressive tone that hardly suited the lyrics: “Sunset glow fades in the west, night o’er the valley is creeping! Birds cuddle down in their nest, soon all the world will be sleeping. But not you, Dave. You’re awake, I can tell. I hope you enjoyed the song. It43616e616461 Hugo Winterhalter. Morsel sang it to me. She43616e616461 very nice, and she needs a man.”
“Looks like you got the job.”
“Do what? Hey, here43616e616461 what43616e616461 going on with me: I’m starving.”
“I’m sure you are, Ray. You ate like a bird.”
“I had no choice. That kind of food gathers around the chambers of the heart like an octopus. But right behind the house they got a vegetable garden, and my plan for you is to slip out and bring me some vegetables. I’ve been told to stay out of the garden. Don’t touch the tomatoes—they’re not ripe.”
“What else is there?”
“Greens and root vegetables.”
“I’m not going out there.”
“Oh, yes, you are.”
“What makes you think so?”
Ray went to his pack and got out the gun.
“This makes me think so. This will really stick to your ribs, get it?”
“I’m not picking vegetables for you, or, technically speaking, stealing them for you. Forget it.”
“Wow. Is this a mood swing?”
“Call it what you want. Otherwise, it43616e616461 shoot or shut up.”
“[REDACTED], but not for the reason you think. I prefer not to wake up the whole house.”
“And the body’d be a problem for you, as a house guest and new fiancé.”
“Very well, very well. This time.” Ray put the gun back in his pack. “You don’t know how close you came.”
“Whatever.”
David rolled over to sleep, but he couldn’t stop his thoughts. He should have spent the day at Jorgensen43616e616461 with his arm up a cow43616e616461 ass. He had a living to make and, if it hadn’t been for his inappropriate curiosity about Ray and Morsel, he’d already be back in [REDACTED], looking to grab a room for the night. But the roll of money in Ray43616e616461 pack and the hints of more to come had made him wonder how anxious he was to get back to work. There was opportunity in the air and he wanted to see how it would all play out.
“Ray, you awake?”
“I can be. What d’you want, asshole?”
“I just have something I want to get off my chest.”
“Make it quick. I need my Zs.”
“Sure, Ray, try this one on for size: the gun43616e616461 a toy.”
“The gun43616e616461 a what?”
“A toy.”
“You think a gun43616e616461 a toy?”
“No, Ray, I think your gun43616e616461 a toy. It43616e616461 a fake. And looks like you are, too.”
“Where43616e616461 the fuckin’ light switch? I’m not taking this shit.”
“Stub your toe jumping off the bed like that.”
“Might be time to clip your wings, sonny.” 
“Ray, I’m here for you. Just take a moment to look at the barrel of your so-called gun, and then let43616e616461 talk.”
Ray found the lamp and paced the squeaking floorboards. “Taking a leak off the porch. Be right back,” he said. Through the open bedroom door, David could see him silhouetted in the moonlight, a silver arc splashing onto the dirt, his head thrown back in what David took to be a plausible posture of despair. 
By the time Ray walked back in he was already talking: “ . . . an appraiser in Modesto, [REDACTED], where I grew up. I did some community theatre there, played Prince Oh So True in a children43616e616461 production and thought I was going places, then ‘Twelve Angry Men’—I was one of them, which is where the pistol came from. I was the hangman in ‘Motherlode.’ Got married, had a baby girl, lost my job, got another one, went to [REDACTED] as a steward on a yacht belonging to a movie star, who was working at a snow-cone stand a year before the yacht, the coke, the babes, and the wine. I had to sign a nondisclosure agreement, but then I got into a fight with the movie star and got kicked off the boat at Diamond Head. They just rowed me to shore in a dinghy and dumped me off. I hiked all the way to the crater and used the rest room to clean up, then took the tour bus into [REDACTED]. I tried to sell the celebrity drug-use story to a local paper, but it went nowhere because of the confidentiality agreement. Everything I sign costs me money. About this time, my wife43616e616461 uncle43616e616461 walnut farm was failing. He took a loan out on the real estate, and I sold my car, which was a mint, rust-free ’78 Trans Am, handling package, W-72 performance motor, Solar Gold with a Martinique Blue interior. We bought a bunch of fema trailers from the Katrina deal and hauled them to [REDACTED]. We lost our asses. The uncle gasses himself in his garage, and my wife throws me out. I moved into a hotel for migrant workers, and started using the computers at the Stanislaus County Library and sleeping at the McHenry Mansion. One of the tour guides was someone I used to fuck in high school and she slipped me into one of the rooms for naps. I met Morsel online. I told her I was on hard times. She told me she was coining it, selling bootleg Oxycontin in the Bakken oil field, but she was lonely. It was a long shot. [REDACTED]. Fresh start. New me. Bus to Billings and hit the road. I made it to [REDACTED], and I had nothing left. The clerk at that fleabag barely let me have a room. I told him I was there for the comets. I don’t know where I come up with that. Breakfast at the café was my last dime and no tip. I had to make a move. So what happens now? You bust me with Morsel? You turn me in? Or you join us?”
“You pretty sure on the business end of this thing?” David asked, with a coldness that surprised him.
“A hundred per cent, but Morsel43616e616461 got issues with other folks already in it. There43616e616461 some risk, but when isn’t there, with stakes like this? Think about it, Dave. If you’re at all interested in getting rich, you tell me.”
Ray was soon snoring. David was intrigued that all these revelations failed to disturb his sleep. He himself was wide awake, brooding over how colorless his own life was in comparison with Ray43616e616461. Ray was a con man and a failure, but what had he ever done? Finish high school? High school had been anguish, persecution, and suffering, but even in that he was unexceptional. He’d never had sex with a mansion tour guide. He’d had sex with a fat girl he disliked. Then the National Guard. Fort Harrison in the winter. Cleaning billets. Inventorying ammunition. Unskilled maintenance on UH-60 Blackhawks. Praying for deployment against worldwide towel heads. A commanding officer who told the recruits that the President of [REDACTED] was “a pencil-wristed twat.” Girlfriend fatter every time he went home. He still lived with his mother. Was still buying his dope from the same guy at the body shop he’d got it from in the eighth grade.
Perhaps it was surprising he’d come up with anything at all, but he had: Bovine Deluxe, L.L.C., a crash course in artificially inseminating cattle. David took to it like a duck to water: driving around the countryside detecting and synchronizing estrus, handling frozen semen, keeping breeding records—all easily learnable, but David brought art to it, and he had no idea where that art had come from. He was a genius preg-tester. Whether he was straight or stoned, his rate of accuracy, as proven in spring calves, was renowned. Actually, David preferred preg-testing stoned. Grass gave him a greater ability to visualize the progress of his arm up the cow43616e616461 rectum. His excitement began as soon as he donned his coveralls, pulled on his glove, lubed it with O.B. goo, and stepped up to the cow stuck in the chute. Holding the tail high overhead with his left hand, he got his right hand all the way in, against the cow43616e616461 attempt to expel it, shovelled out the manure to clear the way past the cervix, and finally, nearly up to his shoulder, grasped the uterus. David could nail a pregnancy at two months, when the calf was smaller than a mouse. He never missed, and no cow that should have been culled turned up without a calf in the spring. He could tell the rancher how far along the cow was by his informal gradations: mouse, rat, Chihuahua, cat, fat cat, raccoon, beagle. Go through the herd, or until his arm was exhausted. Throw the glove away, write up the invoice, strip the coveralls, look for food and a room.
Perfect. Except for the dough.
He’d once dreamed of owning jewels, especially rubies, and that dream was coming back. Maybe glue one on his forehead like a Hindu. It’d go over big on his ranch calls.
Morsel made breakfast for her father, David, and Ray—eggs, biscuits, and gravy. David was thinking about Ray43616e616461 “last dime” back in [REDACTED] versus the rolls of bills in his pack and watching Weldon watch Ray as breakfast was served. Morsel just leaned against the stove while the men ate. “Anyone want to go to Billings today to see the cage fights?” she asked. David looked up and smiled but no one answered her. Ray was probing around his food with his fork, pushing the gravy away from the biscuits, and Weldon was flinching. Weldon wore his black Stetson with the salt-encrusted sweat stain halfway up the crown. David thought it was downright unappetizing, not the sort of thing a customer for top-drawer bull semen would wear. At last Weldon spoke at top volume, as though calling out to his livestock.
“What’d you say your name was?”
“Ray.”
“Well, Ray, why don’t you stick that fork all the way in and eat like a man?”
“I’m doing my best, Mr. Case, but I will eat nothing with a central nervous system.”
“Daddy, leave Ray alone. You’ll have time to get to know each other and find out what Ray enjoys eating.”
When Morsel brought Ray some canned pineapple slices, he looked up at her with what David took to be genuine affection.
She turned to David and said, “It43616e616461 all you can eat around here,” but the moment he stuck his fork back in his food she put a hand in his face and said, “That43616e616461 all you can eat!” and laughed. David noticed her cold blue eyes and thought he was beginning to understand her.
To Weldon, she said, “Daddy, you feel like showing Ray ’n’ ’em the trick?” Weldon stopped his rhythmic lip pursing.
“Oh, Morsel,” he said coyly.
“C’mon, Daddy. Give you a dollar.”
“[REDACTED], Mor, put on the music,” he said with a sigh of good-humored defeat. Morsel went over to a low cupboard next to the pie safe and pulled out a small plastic record-player and a 45-r.p.m. record, which proved to be a scratchy version of “Cool Water,” by the Sons of the Pioneers. Weldon swayed to the mournful tune and then seemed to come to life as Morsel placed a peanut in front of him and the lyrics began: “Keep a-movin’, Dan, / Don’t you listen to him, Dan. / He43616e616461 a devil not a man.” Weldon took off his hat and set it upside down beside him, revealing the thinnest comb-over across a snow-white pate. Then he picked up the peanut and, with sinuous movements, balanced it on his nose. It remained there until near the end of the record—“Dan, can you see, / That big green tree, / Where the water43616e616461 runnin’ free”—when the peanut fell to the table and Weldon43616e616461 chin dropped to stare at it. When the record ended, he replaced his hat, stood without a word, and left the room. For a moment it was quiet, and then came the sound of Weldon43616e616461 plane cranking up.
“Daddy43616e616461 pretty hard on himself when he don’t make it to the end of the record,” Morsel said glumly, as she cleared the dishes. Heading for the living room, she added, “Me and Ray thought you ought to see what dementia looks like. It don’t look good and it43616e616461 expensive.”
David had taken care to copy out the information from Ray43616e616461 passport onto the back of a matchbook cover, which he tore off, rolled into a cylinder, and put inside a bottle of aspirin. And there it stayed until Ray and Morsel headed off to the cage fights. David used his cell phone and 411 Connect to call Ray43616e616461 home in Modesto and chat with his wife or, as she claimed to be, his widow. It took two calls, a couple of hours apart. The first try, he got her answering machine: “You know the drill: leave it at the beep.” On the second try, he got Ray43616e616461 wife. David identified himself as an account assistant with the Internal Revenue Service and Ray43616e616461 wife listened only briefly before stating in a firm, clear, and seemingly ungrieving voice that Ray was dead: “That43616e616461 what I told the last guy and that43616e616461 what I’m telling you.” She said that he had been embezzling from a credit union, left a suicide note, and disappeared.
“I’m doing home health care. Whatever he stole he kept. Killing himself was the one good idea he come up with in the last thirty years. At least it43616e616461 kept the government from garnisheeing my wages, what little they are. I been through all this with the other guy that called, and we have to wait for his death to be confirmed before I get no benefits. If I know Ray, he43616e616461 on the bottom of the Tuolumne River, just to fuck with my head. I wish I could have seen him one more time to tell him I gave his water skis and croquet set to Goodwill. If the bank hadn’t taken back his airplane, I would have lost my house and been sleeping in my car. Too bad you didn’t meet Ray. He was an A-to-Z crumb bum.”
“I’m terribly sorry to hear about your husband,” David said mechanically.
“I don’t think the government is ‘terribly sorry’ to hear about anything. You reading this off a card?”
“No, this is just a follow-up to make sure your file stays intact until you receive the benefits you’re entitled to.”
“I already have the big one: picturing Ray in hell with his ass en fuego.”
“Ah, you speak a bit of Spanish, Mrs. Coelho?”
“Everybody in Modesto ‘speaks a bit of Spanish.’ Where you been all your life?”
“[REDACTED], [REDACTED],” David said indignantly.
“That explains it,” Mrs. Coelho said, and hung up.
Of course he had no car when we met, David thought. No need to leave a paper trail by renting cars or buying tickets on airplanes. He’d got done all he needed to get done on the Modesto library computers, where he and Morsel, two crooks, had found each other and gone into business without ever laying eyes on each other.
Before heading to Billings, Morsel had told David how to get to the 496e646961n smallpox burial ground to look for beads. Otherwise, there was nothing to do around here. He wasn’t interested until he discovered the liquor cabinet and by then it was early evening. He found a bottle marked Hoopoe Schnapps, with a picture of a bird on its label, and gave it a try: “Bottoms up.” It went straight to his head. After several swigs, he was unable to identify the bird but he was very happy. The label said that the drink contained “mirabelles,” and David thought, Hey, I’m totally into mirabelles.
As he headed for the burial ground, David was tottering a bit. Rounding the equipment shed, he nearly ran into Weldon Case, who walked by without speaking or apparently seeing him. Behind the ranch buildings, a cow trail led into the prairie, then wound toward a hillside spring that didn’t quite reach the surface, visible only by the greenery above it. Just below that was the place that Morsel had told him about, pockmarked with anthills. The ants, Morsel claimed, carried the beads to the surface, but you had to hunt for them.


David sat down among the mounds and was soon bitten through his pants. He jumped to his feet and swept the ants away, then crouched, peering and picking at the anthills. His thighs soon ached from squatting, but then he found a speck of sky blue in the dirt, a bead. He clasped it tightly in one hand while stirring with the other and flicking away ants. He didn’t think about the bodies in the ground beneath him. By the time it was too dark to see, his palm was filled with 496e646961n beads and he felt elevated and still drunk.
As he passed the equipment shed, he made out first the silhouette of Weldon Case43616e616461 Stetson and then, very close, the face of Weldon himself, who gazed at him before speaking in a low voice. “You been in the graves, ain’t you?”
“Yes, to look for beads.”
“You ought not to have done that, feller.”
“Oh? But Morsel said—”
“Look up there at the stars.”
“I don’t understand.”
Weldon reached high over his head. “That43616e616461 the crow riding the water snake,” he said, and turned back into the dark.
David was frightened. He went to the house and got into bed as quickly as he could, anxious for the alcohol to fade. He pulled the blanket up under his chin, despite the warmth of the night, and watched a moth batting against an image of the moon in the window. When he was nearly asleep, he saw Morsel43616e616461 headlights wheel across the ceiling, then turn off. He listened for the car doors, but it was nearly ten minutes before they opened and closed. He rolled close to the wall and pretended to be asleep, while the front door opened quietly. Once the reverberation of the screen-door spring had died down, there was whispering that came into the bedroom. He felt a shadow cross his face as someone peered down at him. Soon the sound of muffled copulation filled the room, stopped for the time it took to raise a window, then resumed. David listened more and more intently, until Ray said, in a clear voice, “Dave, you want some of this?”
David stuck to his feigned sleep until Morsel laughed, got up, and walked out with her clothes under her arm. “Night, Ray. Sweet dreams.”
The door shut and, after a moment, Ray spoke. “What could I do, Dave? She was after my weenie like a chicken after a June bug.” Snorts, and, soon after, snoring.
Morsel stood in the doorway of the house, taking in the early sun and smoking a cigarette. She wore an old flannel shirt over what looked like a body stocking that revealed a lazily winking camel toe. Her eyes followed her father as he crossed the yard very slowly. “Look,” she said, as David stepped up. “He43616e616461 wetting his pants. When he ain’t wetting his pants, he walks pretty fast. It43616e616461 just something he enjoys.”
Weldon came up and looked at David, trying to remember him. He said, “This ain’t much of a place to live. My folks moved us out here. We had a nice little ranch at Coal Bank Landing, on the [REDACTED], but one day it fell in the river. Morsel, I’m uncomfortable.”
“Go inside, Daddy. I’ll get you a change of clothes.”
Once the door had shut behind him, David said, “Why in the world do you let him fly that airplane?”
“It43616e616461 all he knows. He flew in the war and dusted crops. He’ll probably kill himself in the damn thing.”
“What43616e616461 he do up there?”
“Looks for his cows.”
“I didn’t know he had cows.”
“He don’t. They all got sold years ago. But he’ll look for them long as he43616e616461 got fuel.”
Morsel turned back to David on her way inside. “I can’t make heads or tails of your friend Ray,” she said. “He was coming on to me the whole time at the cage fights, then he takes out a picture of his wife and tells me she43616e616461 the greatest piece of ass he ever had.”
“Huh. What’d you say to that?”
“I said, ‘Ray, she must’ve had a snappin’ pussy because she43616e616461 got a face that would stop a clock.’ He didn’t like that too much. So I punched him in the shoulder and told him he hadn’t seen nothing yet. What’d you say your name was?”
“I’m David.”
“Well, Dave, Ray says you mean to throw in with us. Is that a fact?”
“I’m sure giving it some thought.”
David was being less than candid. He would have slipped away the day before if he hadn’t felt opportunity headed his way on silver wings.
“You look like a team player to me. I guess that bitch he43616e616461 married to will help out on that end. Long as I never have to see her.”
David had an unhappy conversation with his mother, but at least it was on the phone, so she couldn’t throw stuff.
“The phone is ringing off the hook! Your ranchers are calling constantly, wanting to know when you’ll get there.”
“Ma, I know, but I got tied up. Tell them not to get their panties in a wad. I’ll be there.”
“David!” she screeched. “This is not an answering service!”
“Ma, listen to me. Ma, I got tied up. I’m sparing you the details but relax.”
“How can I relax with the phone going off every ten seconds?”
“Ma, I’m under pressure. Pull the fucking thing out of the wall.”
“Pressure? You’ve never been under pressure in your life!”
He hung up on her. He couldn’t live with her anymore. She needed to take her pacemaker and get a room.
That week, Morsel was able to get a custodial order in Miles City, based on the danger to the community presented by Weldon and his airplane. Ray had so much trouble muscling Weldon into Morsel43616e616461 sedan for the ride to assisted living that big strong David had to pitch in and help Ray tie him up. Weldon tossed off some frightful curses before collapsing in defeat and crying. But the God he called down on them didn’t hold much water anymore, and they made short work of the old fellow. At dinner that night, Morsel was a little blue. The trio43616e616461 somewhat obscure toasts were to the future. David looked on with a smile; he felt happy and accepted and believed he was going somewhere. His inquiring looks were met by giddy winks from Morsel and Ray. They told him that he was now a “courier,” and Ray unwound one of his bundles of cash. He was going to [REDACTED].
“Drive the speed limit,” Ray said. “I’m going to get to know the airplane. Take it down to the oil fields. It43616e616461 important to know your customers.”
“Do you know how to fly it?” This was an insincere question, since David had learned from the so-called widow about Ray43616e616461 repossessed plane.
“How43616e616461 thirteen thousand hours sound to you?”
“I’ll keep the home fires burning,” Morsel said, without taking the cigarette out of her mouth.
David had a perfectly good idea of what he was going to [REDACTED] for, but he didn’t ask. He knew the value of preserving his ignorance. If he could keep his status as a simple courier, he was no guiltier than [REDACTED] Postal Service. “Your Honor, I had no idea what was in the trunk, and I am prepared to say that under oath or take a lie-detector test, at your discretion,” he rehearsed.
He drove straight through, or nearly so. He stopped briefly in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and [REDACTED] to walk among cows. His manner with cattle was so familiar that they didn’t run from him but gathered around in benign expectation. David sighed and jumped back in the car. He declined to pursue this feeling of regret.
It was late when he got into Modesto, and he was tired. He checked into a Super 8 and woke up when the hot light of a [REDACTED] morning shone through the window onto his face. He ate in the lobby and checked out. The directions Ray had given him proved exact: within ten minutes, he was pulling around the house into the side drive and backing into the open garage.
A woman came out of the house in a bathrobe and walked past his window without a word. He popped the trunk and sat quietly as she loaded it, then closed it. She stopped at his window, pulling the bathrobe up close around her throat. She wasn’t hard to look at, but David could see you wouldn’t want to argue with her. “Tell Ray I said be careful. I’ve heard from two I.R.S. guys already.” David said nothing at all.
He was so cautious that the trip back took longer. He stayed overnight at the Garfield again, so as to arrive in daylight, and got up twice during the night to check on the car. In the morning, he skipped eating at the café for fear he might encounter some of his rancher clients. Plus, he knew that Morsel would take care of his empty stomach. He was so close now that he worried about everything, from misreading the gas gauge to flat tires. He even imagined the trunk flying open for no reason. Now he drove past fields of cattle with hardly a glance.
He had imagined a hearty greeting, an enthusiastic homecoming, but the place was silent. A hawk sat on the wire that ran from the house to the bunkhouse, as though it had the place to itself. It flew off reluctantly when David got out of the car. Inside, there were soiled plates on the dining-room table. Light from the television flickered without sound from the living room. David walked in and saw the television first—it was on the shopping network, a closeup of a hand dangling a gold bracelet. Then he saw Morsel on the floor with the channel changer in her hand. She’d been shot.
David felt an icy calm. Ray must have done this. He checked the car keys in his pocket and walked out of the house, stopping on the porch to survey everything in front of him. Then he went around to the equipment shed. Where the airplane had been parked in its two shallow ruts lay Ray, also shot, a pool of blood extending from his mouth like a speech balloon without words. He’d lost a shoe. The plane was gone.
David felt as if he were trapped between the two bodies, with no safe way back to the car. When he got to it, a man was waiting for him. “I must have overslept. How long have you been here?” He was David43616e616461 age, thin and precise in clean khakis and a Shale Services ball cap. He touched his teeth with his thumbnail as he spoke.
“Oh, just a few minutes.”
“Keys.”
“Yes, I have them here.” David patted his pocket.
“Get the trunk for me, please.” David tried to hand him the keys. “No, you.”
“Not a problem.”
David bent to insert the key but his hand was shaking and at first he missed the slot. The lid rose to reveal the contents of the trunk. David didn’t feel a thing. 

