Action
By Paul Theroux
My father was a suspicious man—and, as a widower, wounded, too. My mother died when I was ten, and he became overly concerned about my welfare. He showed it in the following way: he’d take me by the chin, lift my head, and smell it, as though examining a melon for ripeness. He was checking for cigarette smoke or a girl’s perfume, the reek of the poolroom or a back alley, for the odor of disobedience. He never smelled anything. Even so, to test me he’d say, “Where?,” meaning, “Where have you been?”
He was thrifty in all ways, with money, with time; he always tore a stick of chewing gum in half and put the other half in his pocket for later. And he made sure to use the fewest words possible. If he wanted me to move out of the way, he said, “Shift,” or if I asked for a favor he said, “Never.” He hated explanations.
Gruff with me, but talkative with customers at the shoe store that he owned, he seemed to me to be two people. That didn’t surprise me. I was also two people: the obedient son tidying the store and sorting shoe sizes, and, out of my father’s sight, someone else—I was not sure who, but certainly not the person he was used to.
All through high school I worked for him at the shoe store, hating every minute of it. He claimed that he needed me, but business was slow—“slack” was how he’d put it—and I knew that he wanted me there only to keep me out of trouble. His letterhead said “Louis Lecomte & Son,” which looked important, but the reality was my father dozing in one of the customers’ chairs and me in the basement stacking shoeboxes.
The way my father worried about me made me think I was dangerous. I could hear the tremor in his voice when he called out, “Albert!” If I didn’t reply, he’d call again, “Al!,” then “Bertie!,” with growing alarm—where was I?—until at last I said, “Yuh?,” and he was calmed. Cruel of me to delay like that, but I felt trapped. I missed all the school football games. I never joined a team, because I couldn’t take time off to practice. I couldn’t hang around Brigham’s ice-cream parlor after school, looking for action. My father had succeeded. Sometimes I felt very young, other times like an old man: no action for me.
As a menial (I worked for pocket money), I dusted the shoes on display, helped take inventory, and polished the Brannock Device, a metal clamp-like contraption for measuring feet—both width and length. I also ran errands. The errands were the only freedom I had, but it was always the same trip—picking up a pair of shoes, sometimes two, from a warehouse in [REDACTED], near South Station, on Atlantic Avenue.
My father sent me there one summer afternoon, and, before I left, he raised his hand and said, “No Eddie,” meaning, “Don’t associate with Eddie Springer,” a friend whom he considered a bad influence. What I liked about Eddie was the way he himself said, “I’m a wicked-bad influence.”
I took the electric car to Sullivan Square, climbed the stairs, and waited on the platform in front of “Spitting Is Forbidden,” then rode the train to South Station and gave the shoe size and style to the man at the warehouse counter. He didn’t greet me or even comment. He made out an invoice by hand, measured a length of string, and tied the box while I leaned on the counter. 

A woman at a desk behind him smiled at me and said, “You look just like your father.”
I didn’t know what to say. My father was more than fifty years old. She looked quite a bit younger. I could smell her perfume, like strong soap, and I imagined that her blond hair, too, had a fragrance. Seated, she seemed small, doll-like, but sure of herself.
The man said, “Ask your father why he only buys one pair at a time.”
The woman winked at me. She said, “His father only sells one pair at a time.”
“And when is he going to pay me what he owes me?”
“I’ll ask him.” The suggestion that my father might be tricky reassured me and made me admire him.
As I left, holding the box with a clip-on handle, a wooden cylinder with wire hooked through it, the woman said, “Don’t listen to Grumpy. Your father’s a great guy. Tell him Vie was asking for him. [REDACTED].”
Maybe that was his other side—a ladies’ man, a man of the world now down on his luck as a widower and the father of a sulky teen-ager. If that was the case, it only made him more suspicious. He knew what a boy was capable of. He was puritanical and hated any kind of foolery—loud music or talk about girls, or sunny, frivolous places, like [REDACTED] or [REDACTED], any sort of indiscipline.
But that woman, Vie, knew something about my father that I didn’t, and the idea that he was concealing a part of his life made me dawdle on the errand, in my own concealment.
I cut through South Station and bought a jelly doughnut. The woman at the counter, in a white apron and cap, lifted the doughnut from the tray with tongs and dropped it into a small bag.
“Ten cents,” she said, and I gave her the dime. As I stepped away, a man with a mean face leaned over and said, “Give me that.” He looked like a gargoyle, and his smell and his ugliness made him seem violent.
Handing over the bag, I held on to the shoebox and hurried out of the station as though I’d done something wrong. I went up Federal Street, walking fast, until I got to Milk Street. I had a sense that the man might be following me. I went down into Goodspeed’s bookstore. The old woman at the desk said, “You can’t bring any parcels in here.”
Near the corner of Milk and [REDACTED], I stopped at a shop that sold knives and cameras. I knew the place. There was always someone, usually two or three men, looking at the window display of knives—hunting knives with wide blades or jagged blades and shiny bone handles, bowie knives, Buck knives, Swiss Army knives. The cameras were set out in the adjoining window.
A grinning man in a long coat and glasses said, “Hey, look at that camera, how small it is. That one down there.”
Like a toy, a tiny camera was propped on a box with a tiny red roll of film.
“You could get some swell pictures with that. Fit it in the palm of your hand,” the man said. “Take it anywhere.”
I said, “I guess so. It’s really small. Maybe German.”
He put his face near mine, as the man in South Station had done, demanding my doughnut. “I took some pictures of my roommate when he was bollocky,” the man said. He was smiling horribly and making a face, and he dislodged his glasses. He pushed them back into place with a dirty thumb.
But I was backing away. I said, “That’s O.K.”
“I could take a picture of you bollocky,” he said. “Wanna let me?”
“No, thanks.”
“You’re probably too shy.”
“No. It’s not that. I just don’t want to.”
I walked quickly into the sidewalk crowd and ducked past Raymond’s department store. I crossed [REDACTED] Street and headed up Bromfield, lingering in front of Little Jack Horner’s Jokes and Magic, then to Tremont, up [REDACTED] to the black soldiers’ memorial and Hooker’s statue, and down Beacon. Just as I approached Scollay Square, five black boys, big and small, came toward me, filling the sidewalk.
My heart was beating fast as I hurried through traffic to the other side of the street, and I kept walking until I got to the Old Howard theatre. Ever since leaving the shoe warehouse I’d been escaping, and it seemed strange that, trying to avoid trouble, I’d found myself here. I had come here with Eddie Springer one Saturday six months before, after bumping into him on another errand.
Eddie knew the corners of [REDACTED] and all the shortcuts. It was Eddie who had shown me the knife shop and Raymond’s and the joke shop; my father had shown me the memorial to the black regiment and Hooker’s statue and the Union Oyster House. Between my father and Eddie, [REDACTED] held no secrets for me.
It was all exteriors, though. I never went inside anywhere. What would be the point? I had no money, and I was afraid of being confronted. But Eddie had been to all the stores, and had even gone inside the Old Howard for a burlesque show and told me the jokes. A stripper said to a heckler, “Meet me in my dressing room. If I’m late, start without me,” which made Eddie laugh so hard he didn’t notice that I hadn’t understood.
We had come this way in the winter, the same route, from South Station toward the Common, then via Scollay Square—a detour—and along Cambridge Street to the back slope of Beacon Hill.
When I realized that I was retracing that winter walk with Eddie, I felt safer. I knew that I could make my way onward to North Station and to the electric cars in Sullivan Square to take the shoes back to my father.
Eddie was three years older than me, a neighbor who was kind to me because he knew that my mother was dead. He smoked, he drank beer, and he knew [REDACTED], which was like knowing the world. His confidence made him a hero to me. And he had a girlfriend—Paige. We’d gone to see her.
That day with Eddie, there had been snow on the ground. Now it was a summer afternoon of hot sidewalks and sharp smells and strangers, the air of the city thick with humidity under a heavy gray sky. It all stank pleasantly of wickedness, and if I’d known anything I would have recognized it as sensual. But I was fifteen, small for my age, soon to enter my sophomore year of high school. Away from my house I wasn’t sure who I was; I had no self, nothing to put forward, no idea that I dared express, no voice, nothing but the bravado I’d learned from Eddie, even his sayings. “Eyes like pinwheels,” he’d say. Or, “She’s easy,” as he’d said of Paige. 
I remembered Paige clearly: blond, small, with a broad, blankish face, but kindly eyes. She listened and responded with her eyes and didn’t say much. Eddie claimed she was an Indian, from Veazie, [REDACTED], on the river, and he said she was a dancer.
“You like her.”
“She’s action.” Saying that, he believed he’d told me everything.
Her smallness had made her seem girlish, but she was older than Eddie and much older than me, twentysomething. She seemed strong—experienced and sure of herself—but she had no airs. She had treated me as an equal and hadn’t mentioned that she was eight or ten years older.
I don’t know why Eddie took me to meet her. Perhaps he wanted to introduce me to a life remote from mine and show me what a man of the world he was. When I was with him, I felt that I was learning how to be a man of the world myself.
I liked the idea that Paige looked so demure and patient—solid and reassuring, petite and close to the ground, the ideal of girlhood—but deep down she was wild, her other self hidden, to be awakened only by Eddie, who described her howling when he made love to her.
“She knows a few tricks,” he said. “And so do I.”
Paige lived alone in a basement on the other side of Beacon Hill, not an apartment but one large room, the kitchen at the back wall, a double bed to the right, some heavily upholstered chairs near the front door.
On this late-summer afternoon, crossing town, carrying my shoebox, I walked slowly downhill, looking for her door. But I didn’t want to knock—nor was I sure which door was hers, because on that side of the hill the houses were so much alike. I walked on the opposite side of the street, glancing across, and saw that some of the basement doors were open. Encouraged, I crossed over, and as I passed a house I saw Paige inside, framed by the doorway, standing at an ironing board, shaking water onto a red cloth and then running an iron over it.
“Hi.”
With the bright daylight behind me as I peered down, my face must have been hard to make out, because she looked uncertain, even a bit worried. She lifted the iron, holding it like a weapon.
Instead of saying my name, I said, “Eddie’s friend.”
Still holding the iron, she angled her body a bit to see me sideways, away from the light, and then said, “You! Come on in!,” and laughed in a gasping sort of way, as if in relief.
I walked down the short flight of stairs to the basement room and sat in one of the upholstered chairs, exactly where I had sat six months ago, when I’d come with Eddie.
“I hope it’s O.K. to stop by,” I said.
“It’s nice to see you,” she said, and returned to her ironing—and I could tell from the smoothness of her movements that she meant what she said. She pushed the iron without effort across the red cloth, then with her free hand she deftly folded the cloth in half and ironed the fold, giving it a crease.
“I just happened to be in the neighborhood,” I said. This explanation gave me pleasure, because it wasn’t quite true, yet sounded plausible, even suave.
But I suspected that she didn’t believe me. She was literal-minded and truthful, in the way of someone with no small talk. She said, “There’s not much going on in this part of the world.”
“I was headed to North Station.”
Paige smiled, clapping her iron down. “How about a drink?”
“I’m all set.”
“There’s some lemonade in the fridge—help yourself,” she said, tossing her head, loosening her hair.
Eddie would have known how to find the lemonade and a glass and pour himself a drink, but it was beyond me. It occurred to me that I was out of my depth. I knew that, had Paige not been ironing in the open doorway, I would not have approached her. Without a word, she went to the refrigerator and poured me a glass of lemonade.
To fill the silence, I said, “I haven’t seen Eddie lately.”
She bowed her head and went on ironing.
“He changed schools. I guess he wasn’t too happy in [REDACTED].”
She still said nothing.
“I’d like to go there sometime.”
She nodded.
“Like Eddie says, cold in the winter, and the summer’s only a few days in July.”
She worked the red cloth into a tighter square and pressed it with the heel of her hand before applying the iron again.
“And I don’t belong there. My mother once said, ‘Just because a cat has kittens inside an oven doesn’t make them biscuits.’ ” She didn’t react. I now felt sure that I’d raised the wrong subject. I said, “But my mother’s dead.”
This roused her. She looked pained. She said, “I’m really sorry. Please have some more lemonade?”
I showed her that my glass was half full. I said, “How’s the dancing?”
“It’s O.K.,” she said, and, echoing the tone I’d used, “The dancing.”
“Whereabouts do you do it?”
“You know the High Bar?”
“Not sure.”
“You’ve got to be twenty-one,” she said, frowning. “It’s kind of a rough place.”
“I’d like to see you there.”
“No, you wouldn’t,” she said. “You’re better off somewhere else. Like getting a good education.”

That was friendly. It encouraged me, because I felt that she was becoming familiar with me, and something more might happen, and it excited me, because I didn’t know what.
She was a steady presence, standing with her legs apart in her loose shorts, one hand smoothing and folding the red cloth, which grew smaller with each fold, the heavy iron in her other hand. Wisps of hair framed her damp face. I was not used to seeing a woman dressed like this, almost undressed, in her own house, and that excited me, too.
“So where did you learn to dance?” I asked.
She smiled again, shook her head. “It’s pretty easy,” she said. “The guys don’t come there for the dancing.” As we talked, my eyes were drawn to her bed, which was neatly made, with plump pillows and a Teddy bear propped up against them, and on the side table a book. I could easily read the gold lettering on the spine, because it was a title I knew, the New Testament. That confused me. It didn’t fit with the image that Eddie had given me. She’s action. I saw us in the bed, doing—what? I’d never been in bed with a woman.
“Darn,” she said.
The spell broke briefly, but the way she put down the iron and fussed, hiking up her untucked blouse, made her seem sexy again.
“I’m out of starch.”
As she spoke, a shadow moved across her face, filling the doorway.
“Just thought I’d stop in.” The slow way the man descended the stairs emphasized his bulk, as though he were climbing down a ladder, testing each step before taking another. But when he got to the bottom and I stood—my nervousness making me self-consciously polite—I saw that he was not much taller than I was, though twice as heavy.
“Vic.”
He went over and chucked Paige under the chin. She jerked her face away as if she expected to be slapped. “You behaving yourself?”
“Have a coffee.”
“I’ll have what he’s having.”
“Lemonade,” Paige said. “It’s in the fridge. I have to get some starch. I’ll be right back.”
“I should go,” I said.
“I won’t be a minute.”
“Don’t go,” Vic said at the refrigerator, pouring himself a glass of lemonade.
Then Paige was out the door and up the stairs.
I sat down. Vic sat in the chair next to me, but only sighed, didn’t say anything. A sound came from my throat, a worried noise, a whicker of anxiety—Heh-heh.
“Heh-heh,” Vic said, the exact sound, and he stared at me. His face was hard and misshapen, with full lips. He was hunched forward in the chair, which made him look fatter, and I could hear his breathing, like gas escaping. He said, “I know who you are. You’re Eddie.”
“No. I’m not Eddie.” My voice was high and terrified, and the way I said it seemed to convince him that I was lying.
To calm myself, or maybe to show him that I was calm, I raised my glass to my mouth. As I began to drink, he leaned over and punched me in the side of my face, cracking the rim of the glass against my teeth and jarring my head. I drunkenly set the glass on a side table and moved unsteadily toward the stairs, just as Paige came down.
“I have to go.”
“What did you do?” she said angrily to Vic, but she knew.
“You heard him. He has to go.”
I hurried away, blind, stumbling downhill. I was so stunned at being hit in the face that I couldn’t think. My head was ringing, my jaw hurt, and yet I felt glad to be away, and happy when I saw that I wasn’t being chased. My mouth was full of foul-tasting saliva, but I didn’t spit until I got to the bottom of the hill, and then I bent over and spat blood. There was a tenderness on my tongue where my teeth, or the glass, had hit it when he punched me.
Passing a pizza parlor, I caught my reflection in the window and was surprised to see that I looked normal: no one would have guessed that I’d been hit in the face. But I seemed so young, so pale, with spiky hair and a rumpled shirt.
That was how I looked. Inside, I was sick, and the wound in my mouth, the taste of blood, made me afraid. I ran, skinny and breathless, to North Station, pushed my token into the slot, and hurried onto the train.
It was at Sullivan Square, as the train drew in, that I remembered the shoes. I’d left them at Paige’s apartment when I ran. On the electric car I tried to think of an excuse. The truth was awful, impossible, unrepeatable.
As soon as my father saw me entering the store, he said, “Shoes?,” in his economical way, not wasting words on me. But it struck me that he was his other self, too, the one the woman had described, the good guy. It seemed, as I thought this, that he was summing me up, too.
“I lost them. I was on the train and looked down and they weren’t there.”
“What else?”—meaning, “And what other things happened to you?”
“Nothing.”
He lifted my chin. The wound in my mouth hurt as he tugged my head. He leaned over and, sniffing my hair, he knew everything. 

