Apple Cake
By Allegra Goodman
Her sisters flinched because she was the youngest, but she looked so old. Jeanne was just seventy-four, and no one had ever thought . . . They didn’t speak of it. They would not allow themselves, but [REDACTED] was eighty, Sylvia seventy-eight. They’d married first, been mothers first. They were older. They should have been frailer. How could Jeanne be first to go?
Their baby sister lay propped up on pillows. Jeanne, who had celebrated her first birthday in eyelet lace, a slice of cake on the tray of her high chair, and her sisters on either side. Their living doll, with her blond curls and round blue eyes. They’d pulled her in their wagon over grass bumpy with apples from the apple tree. It was dreadful to approach her now—her hair just wisps, her voice nearly gone, her cough breaking every sentence. Horror, pity, shame. They felt all that at once, to see her now and to remember her as she had been. They were sorry and they were glad to feel so alive, their steps firm in their low-heeled shoes. Their own bodies sound, rejoicing with each breath. What a terrible thing to say! They would never have admitted it. Their own strength, their own good fortune and their guilt—they could never put it into words. No one should!
“How are you, darling?” [REDACTED] asked.
Jeanne didn’t answer.
“Did you see the orchid Richard sent?” Sylvia turned a tall white orchid toward Jeanne’s chair.
Jeanne glanced at her nephew’s gift. There were so many. Blossoms filled the first-floor music studio where Jeanne had to live because she couldn’t take the stairs. The orchid from Richard, the sunflowers from her daughter-in-law, Melanie, the roses from the Auerbachs next door. Wherever she looked, she saw arrangements from neighbors, nieces, grandchildren. The piano tuner had sent a basket of mums, which were losing petals, shedding everywhere. The cards said, “All our love,” and “Thinking of you,” and even “Healing light.” This from her niece Wendy, the music therapist.
“Look how beautiful they are,” Sylvia said. She meant, Do you see how much everybody loves you?
Jeanne made a face. The flowers depressed her, especially those that were already wilting. When she looked at the mums, she felt she wasn’t dying fast enough.
Her sisters sat chattering about the heat, the traffic, and the rain. They were afraid to leave her alone—although she had lived by herself for fifteen years, a widow. She lived alone because she liked it. Her late husband had been difficult, to say the least.
According to Jeanne’s sons, her [REDACTED] home was much too big. According to Phoebe, her twenty-year-old granddaughter, Jeanne’s house wasted energy. For years, everybody had been telling Jeanne to move. Now nobody mentioned it.
These were the privileges of hospice. You didn’t have to blow insulation into your walls. No one suggested assisted living or criticized your carbon footprint, which would disappear entirely in weeks, or even days. On the other hand, everyone came to see you and confide in you. Jeanne didn’t believe in God or any kind of afterlife, but lung cancer made believers of her family, so that she, who despised superstition, became a touchstone and talisman to the rest of them. Her sisters were always pressing her cold hands.
[REDACTED] told Jeanne, “Pam and Wendy are coming up this weekend.”
Jeanne nodded.
“Richard’s coming, too,” Sylvia said. Her only child was having a terrible time, switching jobs, divorcing, and she felt he deserved credit for dropping everything to see his aunt. Pam was coming up from [REDACTED], and Wendy lived in [REDACTED], but Richard had to drive all the way from Philly.
Jeanne closed her eyes and listened to her sisters say, She’s tired. She’s exhausted. She heard them echo and repeat each other. She has to rest. Yes, she has to rest. She was looking at the sun, red through her closed eyelids.
The autumn sun felt good, but darkness was better, because everybody left except Shawn, the night nurse. Then Jeanne lay awake in her rented hospital bed and listened to symphonies and choral rhapsodies, quartets, and concertos on WGBH, [REDACTED]’s classical radio. When she heard a solo violin, her fingers curled reflexively; her left hand knew.
Her sons had pushed away her music stands and moved the piano to make room for Shawn, now dozing in his straight-backed chair. Jeanne assumed he had another job during the day, and she saw that he was trying to study as well. He was always reading a textbook, but he never got very far. Just before dawn, the book slipped off his lap onto the floor.
Shawn started up and saw Jeanne staring at him from her bed. “I’m sorry. I’m sorry, Ma’am.” He bent down for the book.
She said, “You rest.”
“No, I’m here if you need something.”
“Sleep.”
His eyes widened. There was no way he was going back to sleep. He’d lose his job.
“I’ll let you know if anything happens,” Jeanne said.
Her sons and their wives came to see her every afternoon. First, Steve and Andrea would sit by her side. Andrea showed videos on her phone of their huge boys, born just eighteen months apart, lion cubs who played high-school soccer. They were coming to see Jeanne right after regionals. Andrea was going to drive them straight from the field, cleats and all.
Next came Dan and Melanie. They had just the one daughter, Phoebe. Melanie had gained fifty pounds when she was pregnant. She never had another child, and she never lost the weight. “Phoebe sends her love,” Melanie said.
Dan explained, “She wants to be here, but she won’t fly.”
Jeanne tried to picture her ecological granddaughter biking from Ann Arbor. She imagined Phoebe’s long blond hair streaming out from under her helmet. “Her schoolwork is more important.”
“Actually, she’s taking the semester off,” Melanie said.
“What was that?”
Dan frowned, upset with Melanie for mentioning this. “She says she wants to work with her hands.”
“Preferably in the dirt,” Melanie said. “She wants to be a farmer and write poetry.”
Jeanne couldn’t help laughing. Her breath came short and quick. For a few moments, she couldn’t breathe at all, and then she couldn’t see. With help from her day nurse, Lorraine, Jeanne sat up, and wiped the tears from her eyes.
“I don’t think dropping out is funny,” Dan said.
“She isn’t dropping out,” Melanie said. “She just needs a little time.”
Jeanne croaked, “Let her do what she wants.”
Dan and Melanie looked crushed, and Jeanne felt sorry for them—but why did everyone expect her to be so concerned?
Illness did not bring out the angel in her. At first, she’d appreciated visitors, but as she lingered on they didn’t leave. Her sisters kept bringing in their middle-aged children—for what? Goodbyes? Advice? Some final blessing? Sylvia begged, “Tell Richard to stop smoking!”
Oh, really, Jeanne thought. That’s what I am. Exhibit A. She studied her ruddy nephew. His wife had just won custody of the children, and the dog. “I enjoyed smoking,” Jeanne said. “Your mother did, too.”
Sylvia shrank back as though Jeanne had struck her, but she said nothing. It was too late, apparently, to retaliate.
Jeanne’s sons appeared, and they looked terrible, both of them. Dan wore wire-rimmed glasses. He was thick in the middle and he had hardly any hair. It amused and saddened Jeanne to see him look so much like his late father. As for Steve, he had a bad back, so he had to walk around the room. He made Jeanne dizzy, pacing up and down.
Her daughters-in-law got emotional—especially Melanie, herself a doctor. Please, Jeanne thought. I lost my parents when I was half your age. We’re all over fifty here.
She pretended to sleep, and then she really did drop off. When she woke, her sisters were hovering over her. Some of us have overstayed our welcome, Jeanne thought. And then, with sudden shock, No: I’m the one. That would be me.
Sardonic as she was, husk that she was, she shuddered at the thought of disappearing, of losing consciousness and irony, her music, her unrenovated house, her sun. Cancer had consumed her body, drugs clouded her mind. Even so, Jeanne held on. Barely eating, scarcely speaking, she endured. Her nieces and her nephew sat with her. Wendy sang and strummed her battered guitar. Jeanne’s soccer-playing grandsons arrived. Zach cracked his knuckles. Nate jiggled his right leg. The boys were like a pair of jackrabbits, all ears and feet.
The hospice nurses said that Jeanne would drift away in a day or two, but four days passed, and then a fifth. It was awkward, because her sons had to take off work, and her grandchildren could miss only so many days of school. Should they stay or should they go? Did it make sense to return home and then come right back for the funeral?
[REDACTED] said, “We need a plan.” Oldest and bossiest, she told Jeanne, “We need to know your wishes.”
“To get up,” Jeanne said immediately.
Later, in the hall, Sylvia turned on [REDACTED]. “How can you speak to her like that?”
[REDACTED] was amazed at the question. “Well, we can’t ask her when she’s gone!”
Sylvia began to cry.
“Don’t get hysterical,” [REDACTED] snapped.
“I’m not hysterical. I have feelings. Be considerate.”
“I am considerate,” [REDACTED] said. “I’m doing for Jeanne what I hope someone would do for me. If I didn’t have a living will.”
Weeping, Sylvia retreated to the dining room to criticize her husband, Lew.
That afternoon, at Jeanne’s bedside, [REDACTED] appealed to her daughter Pam, a tax attorney. “She left no instructions.”
At the word “instructions,” Jeanne opened her eyes. It was disconcerting the way she did that. Just as [REDACTED] slipped into the past tense, Jeanne roused herself. Then everyone hurried to her side again.
Sons and daughters-in-law watched Jeanne’s face.
“Melanie,” Jeanne whispered.
“What is it?” Melanie asked. Already the tears. Always the tears.
“Half a bagel,” Jeanne said.
That sent them off again, scrambling to Rosenfeld’s. The two couples took Dan’s Volvo to Newton Centre, even as they told each other there was no way. Melanie, the doctor, said, “She’ll never eat a whole half a bagel.”
“Does that matter?” Dan demanded, as he drove.
“No,” Melanie said. “Of course not.”
“If my mother wants half a bagel, she’s getting half a bagel.”
Melanie said, “No poppy. She could aspirate the seeds.”
“Get her an egg bagel,” Steve suggested from the back seat.
Andrea corrected him. “She doesn’t like egg. She likes plain.”
By the time they returned with a dozen bagels, two large containers of whipped cream cheese, a side of lox, and a chocolate babka, Jeanne was sleeping again.
The nurses stopped predicting when she would drift away. Now they said that only Jeanne would know when it was time. Lorraine suggested that everybody share a moment. Was there unfinished business in the family? Sometimes people had to forgive each other before they could let go.
Tremulous, angelic, Sylvia told [REDACTED], “I forgive you.”
“Oh, for God’s sake,” [REDACTED] said. There was nothing to forgive. There was simply the great divide between them: [REDACTED] told the truth, while Sylvia tried to paper over everything.
“She never listens to me,” Sylvia told the family assembled at Jeanne’s bedside. “I’m invisible to her.”
Amazed at this mixed metaphor, [REDACTED] said, “Obviously I see you.”
At this point, Dan spoke up. “I think we need to focus on the time we have together.”
“Amen,” Lorraine said, and everyone was jealous, because she liked Dan best.
Look at you, Jeanne thought. All vying for attention! Even so, she forgave everybody. Good night, she told them silently. Farewell. She wished that she could send a blanket dispensation. After which she could stay and they would leave. 
In fact, she looked a little better. She drank some juice and tried a bite of toast. She asked for her violin. She couldn’t play it. She couldn’t even open the case, but she kept it near her on the window ledge next to her bed. She wanted her instrument where she could see it.
Like a cat, Jeanne slept most of the day, but, waking, she seemed a heightened, sharper version of herself. When Pam drove up from [REDACTED] for the second time, Jeanne asked why she’d never married. When Melanie sniffled, Jeanne said, “Stop feeling sorry for yourself.”
Obviously, Melanie was sad because she was afraid of her own death. Jeanne could see it in her eyes. Jeanne’s sisters were even worse. They looked at her and thought only of their mortality.
But this was cruel! Not just unkind. Untrue. Jeanne’s sisters thought nothing of themselves. Sylvia berated Lew all the way home to [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] stayed up late in [REDACTED], baking. Lemon squares, and brownies, pecan bars, apple cake, sandy almond cookies. Alone in her kitchen, she wrapped these offerings in waxed paper and froze them in tight-lipped containers.
Her husband, Charles, ventured, “You should get some rest.”
What a thing to say! How could anybody rest? [REDACTED] had not pursued a career like Jeanne, the music teacher, or three successive husbands, like Sylvia. No, [REDACTED] had always been a homemaker. Now her family needed sustenance, so she doubled every recipe and froze half. After all, there would be a memorial service, and shivah afterward. [REDACTED] could already picture Jeanne’s students descending with their parents. Sylvia hadn’t baked in years, because Lew was diabetic. As for Melanie and Andrea—what would they throw together? A box of doughnut holes? No. [REDACTED] was the baker of the family. What she felt could not be purchased. She grieved from scratch.
And yet Jeanne kept on living. Her sisters held vigil; her sons came up on weekends. In the kitchen, her family nibbled [REDACTED]’s lemon squares. Melanie urged brownies on the nurses. “Take these,” she told Lorraine. “We can’t eat them all, but [REDACTED] won’t stop baking.”
“Sweetheart,” Lorraine said, “everybody mourns in her own way.”
[REDACTED] mourned her sister deeply. She arrived each day with shopping bags. Her cake was tender with sliced apples, but her almond cookies crumbled at the touch. Her pecan bars were awful, sticky-sweet and hard enough to break your teeth. They remained untouched in the dining room, because [REDACTED] never threw good food away.
Sometimes Jeanne asked in a confused voice why everyone had come. And then there were moments when she remembered and took charge. She ordered Melanie to take all the plants and flowers to Newton-Wellesley Hospital. She told Wendy to put her guitar away. After this, she asked to speak to her sons alone. She lay in bed and watched Dan and Steve approach. This is it, the two of them were thinking. “We’ll see,” Jeanne said.
Guilty, nervous, Steve asked, “What did you say?”
“These are my wishes,” Jeanne said.
Dan pulled up a chair, but Steve paced up and down.
“Stop that.”
“What are your wishes?” Dan asked.
“First of all”—Jeanne looked at Steve—“don’t pace. Second of all . . .”
They waited.
“No funeral.”
“A private burial?” Dan ventured.
“No burial.”
Astonished, Steve said, “You have the plot.” He might as well have added, And it’s paid for.
“I don’t want it.”
Steve protested, “But it’s next to Dad.”
“Yes, I am aware of that.”
Dan’s glasses were fogging up. He took them off and wiped them on the bottom of his sweater. “You shared your life with Dad for thirty-eight years.”
“Exactly.”
If Jeanne had another plan, she did not reveal it to her sons. If she had a good word to say about their father, she did not say it. Fiercely, she insisted that there would be no burial. No memorial. Privately, she decided not to die.
Jeanne’s voice grew stronger as she kept living. Outside, the leaves were turning. AAA Sparkling Windows and Gutters called to schedule a cleaning. Still, she endured.
Uneasily, the family dispersed. Jeanne’s grandsons returned to school. Jeanne’s sons and their wives went back to work. Even Melanie stopped crying. Her mother-in-law was a medical miracle. She was going to outlast them all. Only the nurses kept the faith. Lorraine said that sometimes older people held on for an occasion. They willed themselves to stay alive for one final milestone. A wedding. A grandchild’s graduation.
No one could think of a milestone, apart from Richard’s divorce. Nobody was marrying or graduating. The next family birthday was in May. Everyone had shared a moment. Nieces and nephew and grandchildren had . . . Wait! They’d forgotten Phoebe, writing poetry in [REDACTED], working with her hands, refusing to fly.
Melanie and Dan spoke to Phoebe on the phone. They called her from Jeanne’s house, and then Melanie called again from the car as Dan drove home. She talked to Phoebe about respect and compassion—thinking about others, not just about the earth.
Meanwhile, [REDACTED] and Sylvia kept coming every day, baleful, fearful, sorry for their lot. [REDACTED] wanted to bring her rabbi to the house.
“No rabbis,” Jeanne said. “No members of the clergy.”
“Well, what would you suggest?” [REDACTED] demanded.
Sylvia cried, “How dare you scream at her?”
“Only one of us is screaming,” [REDACTED] said.
Sylvia left the room, and then she left the house. Maybe she raised her voice at times. Maybe she felt overwhelmed. The situation was overwhelming. Jeanne’s death unimaginable, and now—even worse—postponed. There was nothing to be done, and yet [REDACTED] managed to do it. As usual, she took over everything. Sylvia was up all night, she was so upset. “It’s all about [REDACTED],” Sylvia told Lew. “Her plan, her rabbi, her stale old pecan bars.”
Columbus Day, when the family gathered at the house, Sylvia arrived with fresh-baked apple cake, warm from her oven, fragrant in its pan.
Heads up, suddenly alert, Jeanne’s huge grandsons sniffed the cake. Can I have a piece? Can I have some?
In the kitchen, Sylvia turned the cake out on a plate and sliced big wedges for the boys. Then Dan and Melanie had pieces, as did Steve and Andrea. In the dining room, [REDACTED]’s defrosted brownies, pecan bars, and almond cookies sat undisturbed. Charles did take a brownie out of loyalty, but he slipped into the kitchen for Sylvia’s cake.
“I smell baked apples,” Jeanne whispered in the studio. The bed seemed to swallow her up, and yet she spoke.
“It’s my recipe,” [REDACTED] said. “I gave that recipe to Sylvia twenty years ago.”
“Yes, I remember,” Jeanne said. “She bakes a very good apple cake.”
“I bake the same one! I brought you apple cake last week!”
“I know, but I like hers better,” Jeanne said.
[REDACTED] marched into the kitchen and gazed at the last crumbs of Sylvia’s cake. Zach and Nate were eating standing up. Melanie and Dan, Steve and Andrea, were eating at the table. Then [REDACTED] caught her own husband throwing away a paper plate.
“Et tu, Charles,” Lew said.
“You used my recipe,” [REDACTED] told Sylvia.
“Yes, I did,” Sylvia replied, with such an air that even Zach and Nate knew she meant, What’s it to you?
The next day, Sylvia brought her homemade jelly rolls, soft sponges rolled with tangy apricot, dusted on top with coconut flakes. She had not baked jelly rolls in fifteen years, and the whole family fell upon them. Even Lew, so careful with his diet, took a tiny piece. Only [REDACTED] and Jeanne abstained. [REDACTED] would not, and Jeanne could not partake.
She was sick of visitors, but she made an effort to say a few words to each one. She advised her younger son, Dan, to look into hair-replacement therapy. She told Melanie to try antidepressants. Maybe they would help her lose some weight. As for Steve and Andrea, they were neglecting music. Neither of their boys played an instrument. Jeanne told Andrea to look into marching band, since the boys loved sports so much. Or, if they refused to practice, there were youth choirs. With some ear training, they might learn to sing.
Andrea was speechless for a moment. Then she said slowly, “I realize that music is important to you.”
“My life,” Jeanne whispered.
“Would you like to see your students?” Steve asked.
Jeanne thought of her young violinists—George, with his sweet tone and his tendency to rush. Sophie, who forgot to count. Wyatt had a good ear but didn’t work at all. Emma would not relax her tight goat-trill vibrato.
Andrea said, “Would you like some of them to come and play for you?”
“God, no,” Jeanne said.
Sisters, sons, daughters-in-law were always begging to know what they could do. Jeanne gazed out the window at her sugar maple, and she told them what she wanted, since they asked.
They carried her into the garden, where she could see the trees. Tethered to her wheelchair and to her oxygen, she turned her face up to the fiery maples, the gold oaks, the breezy sky. How good the world smelled, the fresh damp grass.
She leaned back and she smiled, and her family thought she was at peace. They were wrong. She was not at peace; quite the opposite. She was happy. Full of plans.
She told [REDACTED] she would see the rabbi. She would have a conversation with him. “Thank you,” [REDACTED] said.
Rabbi Lieberman, when he arrived the next day, looked about twelve. He could have come for lessons. He wore a suit, but he seemed to Jeanne not much bigger than a child.
“Jeanne wanted to have a conversation with you,” [REDACTED] said.
Jeanne told the rabbi, “You should know that I’m an atheist.”
The rabbi nodded. “Yes, I understand.”
Jeanne added, “I don’t have time for organized religion.”
“You’re in good company,” the rabbi said.
Jeanne frowned to find him so accommodating. Didn’t rabbis believe anything anymore? “But you believe in God,” she said.
“I do.”
Jeanne looked at [REDACTED]. “That’s a relief, ” she said.
“You see?” [REDACTED] told her sister, and she meant, You see, it’s a relief, a comfort to think of the Creator. “You see?”
“Belief is very personal,” the rabbi said.
“I agree,” Jeanne said. “That’s why we should keep it to ourselves.”
The rabbi smiled.
“My family would like to bury me.”
[REDACTED] broke in. “You know that’s not true.”
“They want to bury me next to my late husband,” Jeanne said. “I would like to go somewhere else.”
“Where would you like to go?”
“I’d like to be scattered,” Jeanne said.
“Cremated?” Rabbi Lieberman asked delicately.
“That’s not Jewish,” [REDACTED] declared.
Jeanne looked at the rabbi, who seemed reluctant to speak.
“It’s not our tradition,” the rabbi said at last.
“Good.”
“And how will we visit you?” [REDACTED] demanded.
Jeanne said, “Why do you assume that I want visitors?”
[REDACTED]’s tears startled Jeanne. Not you, she thought. [REDACTED] never cried.
“I would visit,” [REDACTED] said.
“Oh, fine,” Jeanne said. “Go ahead and bury me. I won’t mind.”
“Thank you,” [REDACTED] whispered.
After all, Jeanne reasoned, she would never feel it. She wouldn’t even know. “Do what you want,” she told her sister. “Cover me with rocks.”
They wore her down. They came in shifts. Jeanne closed her eyes and listened to the house. Doors closing. Water running. The crackle of crumbs flying up the vacuum cleaner. Raised voices. Furious words. [REDACTED] baked mandelbrot from their mother Esther’s recipe. Sylvia countered with Esther’s honey cake.
Jeanne tasted none of it, but she remained the cause, the crux of the matter, the still fixed point of the entire family. How long had she been sleeping? When would she wake? She was as surprised as anyone to find herself alive each morning. She opened her eyes and everyone turned to her as to an oracle. She did her best to keep them busy. “Take a day off,” she told [REDACTED]. “Serve on a committee.” She turned to Sylvia. “Bring me another apple cake.”
“You’re angry at me,” [REDACTED] told Jeanne later when they were alone.
Jeanne shook her head.
“You’re angry because I have beliefs.”
Jeanne said, “I don’t hold any of your beliefs against you.” She said this, but she added silently, I do think less of you.
 “Sylvia covers her apples with brown sugar,” [REDACTED] said. “She sugars everything.”
“Of course she does,” Jeanne said. After all, people liked sweet things. Anything sweet and easy. The bitter, dark, and complicated could not compete. This had always pained her before, but she enjoyed the injustice of it now. Joy mixed with fear as she looked out the window and saw scarlet trees. How dazzling the world was. How strange.
She heard voices at her door and saw a beautiful girl, dressed all in rags. At last, her granddaughter, Phoebe, had arrived with her gold hair trailing down her back. She’d come on the bus from [REDACTED], and she’d brought a young man, a huntsman in a rough leather shirt.
Jeanne clasped her granddaughter’s hand, but Phoebe started back, shocked by Jeanne’s ghastly face.
Oh, you’re afraid of me, Jeanne thought. Grandmother, what big eyes you have, what withered cheeks.
“Sharp nails,” Phoebe murmured, looking down at Jeanne’s claws.
The wolf inside Jeanne whispered, The better to eat you with, my dear. But Jeanne said, “Introduce me.”
Phoebe didn’t understand.
Jeanne turned to Phoebe’s deerslayer. “What’s your name?”
“I’m Christian.”
Jeanne had no breath, but laughter racked her body anyway. She held on to Phoebe, and she began to shake.
Dan and Melanie did not find Phoebe’s boyfriend funny, nor did they laugh about his name. He was twenty-eight years old, without a full-time job. He said he wanted to raise blueberries. They did not appreciate meeting him like this. They did not appreciate meeting him at all. He sat on the couch with his arms wrapped around Phoebe, as though she belonged to him. They couldn’t even have a conversation with their daughter. And yet Christian withstood every hint and every disapproving look. He nuzzled their only child, and he ate. Unblinking, he finished off [REDACTED]’s pecan bars. He devoured Sylvia’s apple cake.
Now that Phoebe had arrived, Jeanne was supposed to let go, but she stayed alive to gaze at Phoebe’s lovely face. “Where’s your violin?” she asked.
Phoebe looked down at her hiking boots.
“You sold it, didn’t you?”
Phoebe began to cry.
“It doesn’t matter. In the grand scheme of things . . .”
Phoebe waited for Jeanne. Then she said, “What is it?”
Oh, who can remember, Jeanne thought. Maybe she was sleeping. It was hard to tell. She could have been dreaming, or talking in her sleep. “You played well, but other people play much better.”
“Thanks, Grandma,” Phoebe said, and suddenly Jeanne saw her as a little child, golden-haired, sitting on the beach. She could see Phoebe sand-dusted in her bathing suit. The rippling tide around her, deep-blue waves, white foam.
Jeanne lost consciousness the next day. Dan and Steve kissed their mother’s forehead. Once more, everybody said goodbye, but another day passed, and then a third. Finally, at night, when she was all alone except for Shawn, Jeanne cried out.
“Mrs. Rubinstein!” He tried to make her comfortable, but she fought him. She didn’t want help. She wanted to open her eyes, to rise up from her bed. She wanted music and she wanted apples. She wanted to touch the sandy beach, to feel summer’s heat. She wanted all this, but she couldn’t have it. She died because she couldn’t breathe.
In the morning, Jeanne’s sons tried to make arrangements. Everybody sat in the dining room, and [REDACTED] insisted that her rabbi lead prayers.
Sylvia turned on her. “She said no memorial service. You know she hated organized religion!”
“Stop shrieking at me,” [REDACTED] said.
“We are honoring Jeanne’s life, not yours.”
Dan intervened. “A simple burial.”
“No service,” Steve added.
“But she didn’t want a burial,” Sylvia reminded them.
[REDACTED] drew herself up. “She said fine.”
“Because you pressured her!”
“I would never pressure anyone,” [REDACTED] said.
“Oh, really!”
“She told me fine.”
“Nobody else heard her.”
“The rabbi heard.”
“Because the two of you were pressuring her into it.”
“For the last time, she wasn’t pressured. She said yes. Bury me.”
“Because she was dying! That’s why she agreed.”
Even as they argued in the dining room, the rental company came to collect Jeanne’s cannisters of oxygen. Someone was on the phone about the hospital bed, now stripped bare.
“She wanted to be scattered,” Sylvia declared.
“She said, Bury me. She told the rabbi.”
“She didn’t believe in rabbis!”
“Does that mean he never existed?” [REDACTED] shot back. “Does that mean the conversation never happened?”
“Stop,” Dan begged them, but they would not stop.
“As far as you’re concerned,” Sylvia said, “the only conversations that happen are the ones happening to you.”
Now [REDACTED] lost her temper entirely. “I asked her to make plans, and you accused me of having no feelings! I talked about instructions, because I knew this was going to happen!”
“She stated her wishes a thousand times.” Sylvia spoke with resolve. “She said she wanted to be scattered.”
“That is what she said,” Dan admitted.
“She never wavered,” Sylvia told [REDACTED].
“She changed her mind!” [REDACTED] cried out, but no one believed her. Once, [REDACTED] had been the sane one. Now they treated her as though she were delusional. Sylvia had begun the insurrection. She’d waged this war for weeks. [REDACTED]’s voice broke, even as she appealed to them all. “Jeanne talked to the rabbi and she said, Bury me, and that’s the truth!”
Sylvia fixed her eyes on [REDACTED]. “Don’t get hysterical.”
But of course it wasn’t up to them. Dan and Steve made all the plans. They interpreted their mother’s wishes. There would be no burial, just a celebration of Jeanne’s life.
Privately, their wives spoke to Sylvia and [REDACTED]. They said that the reception after the service would be catered, and for the sake of the family they requested no homemade desserts. They asked Jeanne’s sisters to promise. No cookies, no pecan bars. Absolutely no cake.
“I will do whatever you decide,” [REDACTED] said with dignity.
“And so will I,” Sylvia said.
[REDACTED] added, “I would never use an occasion like this to call attention to myself.”
No rabbi spoke at the celebration of Jeanne’s life. Jeanne’s student Emma Kantor played Bach, and Dan spoke about how Jeanne’s music had filled the house. Steve talked about what he had learned from his mother: “Don’t quit. Don’t feel sorry for yourself. Don’t just stand there, do something.” These were the lessons he remembered, although Jeanne’s actual words had been “Don’t pace.”
In the front row of the funeral chapel, Sylvia sat wearing tinted glasses. She didn’t think that she could speak. However, when the time came she walked up to the lectern and the words began to come. She’d written them all down on college-ruled paper.
“All my friends were jealous when she was born,” Sylvia said. “But I didn’t even let them touch her. She was a perfect baby and an angel. From the time she was born, she was my special charge. I used to dress her and play with her. I was her teacher when we played school on the porch. And this is why . . . this is why it’s so difficult . . . impossible to . . .”
Sylvia broke down, and her son rushed to the lectern to comfort her, which made her cry even more. How could he keep smoking after all this? How could his wife, his college sweetheart, leave him?
Lew was standing. He helped her take her seat, and she sat between the two of them, her husband and her son, and the tears kept coming—until [REDACTED] began to speak.
“It is perhaps appropriate that I speak last, because I am the oldest,” [REDACTED] said. “And yet I have no monopoly on my sister. Like every human, she belonged to many people, not just one. She had parents.” [REDACTED] stared straight at Sylvia. “She had two older sisters. She was a beloved member of our family. Daughter, sister, mother, cousin, friend. She was a musician. She was a teacher who spent countless hours instructing children. She was not sentimental, but she was giving.”
Now Sylvia took off her glasses. Now she wiped the last tears from her eyes.
“She did not love tradition,” [REDACTED] said, “but in her final days she spoke of God.”
“Not true!” Sylvia whispered to Lew.
“She talked about belief.”
Louder, Sylvia whispered to her husband, “That’s just not true!”
As [REDACTED] spoke, Sylvia rattled her notes, her own words left unsaid. She wanted to stand up and finish her eulogy. She wanted to deliver her bright version of Jeanne’s life, the true picture, unvarnished with religion, but it was too late. Already [REDACTED] was speaking about eternity. Already she was reciting Kaddish.
Sylvia wanted to cry out and stop the prayer. She whispered loud enough for those around her to hear, “This is not what Jeanne wanted!” Apart from that, she suffered in silence. She would not ruin the memorial. She would never make a scene.
To close the service, Jeanne’s twelve-year-old student, George Leong, played the Meditation on a Theme from “Thaïs.” He didn’t rush until the last cascading phrases at the end. Horse knows the way, Jeanne would have said.
After the celebration, the family convened at Jeanne’s house to sit shivah for one day. No one could take off another week. Silent, staring, [REDACTED] watched the caterers serve quiche and crudités and sweet noodle kugel in a silver chafing dish. Fresh-fruit platters stood in for dessert, along with factory-made cookies and weak coffee.
In the living room, Melanie and Andrea tried to comfort friends and neighbors who were shaken by Jeanne’s passing. Several confided that Jeanne’s sudden death had prompted them to enjoy life while they could. The Auerbachs next door had decided to tour the Galápagos Islands. After that, they hoped to see the northern lights. They had a list.
In Jeanne’s studio, Dan and Steve and their cousins, Pam, Wendy, and Richard, talked about how they used to play Wiffle ball together in the back yard. Someone asked [REDACTED] to look for the photo albums, but she sat in a daze. As for Sylvia, she was nowhere to be seen.
Late in the day, just as the guests began to leave, Sylvia slipped into the house. Sober, Lew followed, carrying a tube pan.
“Lew?” Andrea said in a warning voice. “What is that?”
Lew kept moving. He knew that this was the nuclear option, and he felt culpable, but he loved his wife.
In the dining room, Sylvia sliced her fresh-baked apple cake. The caterers were still packing up. Their chafing dishes were hardly cold when the house filled with the cake’s fragrance. Jeanne’s grandsons ran straight to the table. Christian appeared with Phoebe right behind him.
The scent of apples woke [REDACTED] from her trance. She marched into the dining room and saw the family eating; she saw what Sylvia had done, and her eyes brightened; her whole body tensed with indignation.
That was the end.
Melanie tried. Everybody tried. Nobody could reconcile Jeanne’s sisters. This was all a misunderstanding, their children said. Don’t be stubborn, their children pleaded. Andrea said that they only had each other now, but they refused to listen. Dan said life was short. They didn’t care. In fact, they knew it wasn’t true. Their lives were long.
Lorraine was right. Everybody mourned in his or her own way. Phoebe wrote a poem, and Melanie did in fact start taking antidepressants. Richard began dating a woman he’d met at a bar. Pam adopted a shelter dog. As for Jeanne’s sisters, they would not forgive each other for Jeanne’s death. They would not reconcile, not even when the whole family gathered at Singing Beach in the spring to scatter Jeanne’s ashes in the ocean. Wendy stood on the sand and asked the sisters, in Jeanne’s memory, to open their hearts and to embrace each other so that they might begin to heal, but no, not even then. 

