
Camilo
By Alejandro Zambra
“I’m Camilo!” he shouted to me from the gate, opening his arms wide, as if we knew each other. “Your daddy’s godson.” It seemed terribly suspicious to me, like a caricature of danger, and I was nine then, already too big to fall for a trap like that. Those dark glasses, like a blind man’s, on a cloudy day. And that jean jacket, covered in sewn-on patches with the names of rock bands. “My dad’s not here,” I told him, closing the door, and I didn’t even give my father the message; I forgot.
But it turned out to be true: my father had been a close friend of Camilo’s father, Big Camilo—they’d played soccer together on the Renca team. We had photographs of the baptism, the baby crying and the adults looking solemnly into the camera. All was well for several years—my father was an engaged godfather, and he took an interest in the child—but then he and Big Camilo had a fight, and later, some months after the coup, Big Camilo was imprisoned, and after he was released he went into exile. The plan was for his wife, July, to bring Little Camilo and meet up with him in [REDACTED], but she didn’t want to, and the marriage, in fact, ended. So Little Camilo grew up missing his father, waiting for him, saving up money to go and visit him. And one day, just after he turned eighteen, he decided that if he couldn’t see his father he should at least find his godfather.
I learned all this over tea the first time Camilo came to have onces with us, or maybe I found it out gradually. I want to be clear here, and I’m getting confused. But I remember how moved my father was that afternoon when he saw how much his godson looked like his old friend. “You have the same face,” he told him, which was not necessarily a compliment, because it was an unremarkable face, difficult to remember, and though Camilo used many products to style his stiff hair fashionably, it had a tendency to play dirty tricks on him.
Despite my initial distrust, Camilo soon became a benevolent and protective presence for me, luminous, a real older brother. When he set off for [REDACTED] to fulfill his lifelong dream, that’s what I thought: that it was my brother who was leaving. It was January of 1991; that I can say for certain.
I wasn’t the only one who was fascinated by Camilo. My older sister was completely infatuated, and my younger sister, who could not usually keep her attention on anything for more than two seconds, would watch him intently when he came to visit, celebrating every one of his wisecracks. Not to mention my mom, with whom he joked around but also talked seriously, because during that time Camilo was—in his own words—full of religious tension, and although my mother was no saint, she was so astounded by the idea that a person could deny the existence of God that she’d sit and listen to him in awe.
As for my father, I think that, for him, Camilo became more of a companion or a friend than a godson; he even let Camilo address him with the informal “you.” They would sit up late in the living room, talking about all kinds of things—except about the existence of God, because my father didn’t allow such things to be questioned, or about soccer, because Camilo was the first man I met who didn’t like soccer. He didn’t even understand the rules. The only match he’d ever played took place in the San Miguel gym, when he was five years old: his knowledge of the game back then came from the goals he’d seen replayed on TV, so he spent the whole afternoon running every which way, cheering for goals that hadn’t happened and happily waving to the crowd, utterly uninterested in the ball.
My own relationship with my father, however, was closely tied to soccer. We watched or listened to games, sometimes we went to the stadium together, and every Sunday, at noon, I went with him to a field in La Farfana, where he played goalie. He was really good—I remember him suspended in the air, grabbing hold of the ball with both hands and clutching it to his chest. Still, I always suspected that his teammates must hate him, because he was the kind of goalie who spends the whole game barking instructions, ordering around the defense and even the midfield players, all at the top of his lungs. “Pass it back, man, pass it back! Here! Pass it back, man, back!” How many times did I hear my father call that out in a tone of utmost alarm. When he yelled at me—if he ever did—it was never as loud as those shrieks that his teammates bore in annoyance, or at least that’s what I assumed, since trying to play with that nonstop commotion in the background can’t have been pleasant. But he was respected, my father. And he was really good, I’ll say it again. I would settle in behind the goal with my Bilz or my Chocolito, and sometimes he would glance at me quickly to be sure I was still there, and other times he would ask me, without turning around, what had happened, because that was my father’s main problem as a goalie: it was why he’d never been able to go pro—his myopia was so severe that he could see only as far as the midfield. His reflexes, however, were extraordinary, as was his bravery, which he paid for with two fractures in his right hand and one in his left.
During halftime I liked to go and stand in the goalie’s spot, and invariably I’d think about how immense the goal was. Over and over, I wondered how anyone could possibly block a penalty kick. My father blocked penalty kicks—of course he did. One out of every three or four: he never dived for them early; he always waited, and if the execution was anything less than perfect he blocked it. 

I remember a trip to the country, when Camilo discovered that I blinked between street lights. I still do it, even when I’m driving; I can’t help it. As soon as I get on the highway, I start blinking carefully, trying to hit the exact midpoint between the street lights. That day, we were crowded into the back seat of my parents’ Chevette with my sisters, and Camilo noticed that I was tense, concentrating, and then he started to blink at the same time that I did, smiling at me. I got worried, because I didn’t want to make any mistakes; I fervently believed that only if I blinked between the street lights would we all be kept safe.
My nervous habits don’t bother me so much now, but when I was a kid they used to make me so anxious that even the simplest activities became unbearable. I guess I was partly or completely O.C.D. Like many children, I scrupulously avoided the cracks in the sidewalk. If I ever accidentally stepped on one I went into a state of unspeakable despair—and yet I knew, on some level, that it was all too ridiculous to talk about. I also had an obsession with balancing out the parts of my body: if one leg hurt, I’d hit the other one to make them even. Sometimes I’d move my right shoulder to the rhythm of my heartbeats, as if I had two hearts. I had some truly random routines, as well, like going nine times up and down the steep staircase that led from the pool to the park. This wasn’t really so strange—it could have been a kind of game—but I managed to keep it from seeming like one by hiding it carefully: I’d stop at the bottom step, shake my head as if I’d forgotten something, and then turn around and retrace my steps.
If I mention all this it’s only because Camilo always seemed willing to help me. That time in the Chevette, when he realized that I was nervous, he patted my hair and said something I don’t remember, but I’m sure that it was warm, caring, and subtle. Sometime later, when I started telling him about my eccentricities, he told me that everyone was different, and maybe the strange things I did were normal, or maybe they weren’t, but it didn’t matter, because normal people stank.
I could fill many pages writing about Camilo’s importance in my life. For now, I remember that it was Camilo who, after many long and sophisticated arguments, managed to get me permission to go to my first concert. (We saw Aparato Raro at the Don Orione school in Cerrillos.) He was also the first person to read my poems.
I’d written poems since I was little, which was, of course, a shameful secret. They weren’t any good, but I thought they were, and when Camilo read them he did so respectfully, though he immediately explained that these days poems didn’t rhyme. That was news to me. I’d never read a poem that didn’t rhyme, and I’d always thought that poetry was something unchanging: ancient and immutable. But it was great to hear, since there were times when it cost me the world to find rhymes, and I knew I couldn’t always fall back on the easy combinations.
I asked him what the difference was, then, between a poem and a story. We were stretched out by the pool—in full-on photosynthesis, as he would say. He looked at me with a pedagogical expression and told me that a poem was the exact opposite of a story. “Stories are boring. Poetry is madness, poetry is savage, poetry is a torrent of extreme emotions,” he said, or something like that. It’s difficult not to start inventing, not to let myself be carried along on the scent of memory. He definitely used the words “madness,” “savage,” and “emotions.” “Torrent,” maybe not. I think “extreme,” yes.
Back at home, he picked up my notebook and started to write poems himself. It took him maybe half an hour to write ten or twelve long texts, and then he read them to me. I didn’t understand a thing; I asked him if other people understood his poems. He told me that people might not understand them, but that wasn’t the important thing. I asked him if he wanted to publish a book. He told me yes, he was sure he would, but that wasn’t the important thing, either. I asked him what the important thing was. And he said this, or this was what I understood: “The important thing is to express your feelings, and not to be afraid to reveal yourself as a passionate, interesting man, maybe a bit fragile, someone who accepts his feminine side.” That was definitely the first time I heard the expression “feminine side.”
Another day, not long after that, he asked me if I liked men or women. I was a bit alarmed, because there were guys I liked—Camilo himself, for example—but I was quite sure that I liked girls more, much more. “I like girls,” I told him. “I like them a lot. I think they’re hot as hell.”
“O.K.,” he said, very seriously, and then he added that if I liked guys it was O.K.—that happened sometimes, too.
I remember Camilo that afternoon, standing on the bow-shaped bridge in Providencia, smoking. I could tell it was not your usual cigarette, but I didn’t know exactly what it was. “It’s too strong for a kid,” he said in apology when I asked for a drag, because by then I’d started smoking, once in a while. This must have been 1986 or early 1987; I was ten or eleven years old. I know because at that age I still didn’t know my way around Providencia or downtown Santiago very well, and also because later that day we went to buy “True Stories,” by the Talking Heads, which was still a new album then.
“We have to solve your problem,” Camilo had told me that morning as we were walking to the bus stop. I asked him which problem, because I thought I had a lot, not just one. “Your shyness,” he replied. “Women don’t like shy men.” And I really was shy back then; I’m talking about a genuine shyness, not the kind you see now, when so many things are blamed on shyness it’s almost a joke. If someone doesn’t say hi, it’s because he’s shy; if a guy kills his wife, it’s because of his shyness; if he cheats a whole town, if he runs for office, if he eats the last bit of Nutella from the jar without asking anyone—shy. No, I’m talking about something else: real stuttering insecurity.
“I’m going to help you,” Camilo told me. “I’m going to give you a lesson, but don’t worry, you won’t have to do anything—just don’t leave my side, no matter what I do.” I nodded, feeling a bit dizzy. During the hour-long bus ride, he told me jokes, most of them ones he’d told me before, but this time he told them in a very loud voice, all but shouting. I thought the lesson was that I had to laugh equally loudly, which was very hard for me, but I tried. Then, as we were getting off the bus, he told me that that was not the lesson.
We went up onto the bridge and stopped halfway across. Camilo smoked in silence, while I looked down at the murky, rushing water of the river, which was higher than usual. I focussed on the current, until I was so concentrated that I had the feeling that the water was standing still and we were aboard a moving boat, although I’d never been on a boat in my life. I stayed like that for a long time, fifteen, maybe twenty minutes. “We’re on a boat,” I said to Camilo. I had trouble explaining; he didn’t get it, but then suddenly he saw it, too, and he let out a cry of profound astonishment. We went on gazing at the current while he repeated, “Incredible, incredible, incredible.”
Afterward, as we were walking toward Providencia, he told me emphatically, “I’ve always liked you a lot, I still like you a lot, but now I respect you, too.” When we got to an intersection, maybe Providencia and Carlos Antúnez, he looked at me, made a subtle, sharp movement with his head that meant now, then threw himself to the ground, clutching his stomach, and started laughing extravagantly, scandalously. A circle of people gathered around us right away, and I did not want to be there, but I understood that this was the lesson. When he finally stopped laughing, there were five policemen there asking him for an explanation. Camilo gave me a nod of approval—I had stayed beside him the whole time, and I had even laughed a little, too. I watched the cops’ faces, impassive and severe, while Camilo rattled off a disjointed explanation in which he talked about me and my shyness, and how it was necessary to teach me this lesson so that I could, he told them, grow. He had disrupted the public order, we were living under a dictatorship, but Camilo managed to placate the policemen, and we walked away after making the strange promise never to laugh in a public place again.
“I’m really high,” Camilo said to me, or maybe he said it to himself, a little concerned. We went into a store to buy the Talking Heads album. The place seemed different from any record store I’d been to—everything struck me as luxurious and exclusive. When the sales clerk handed us “True Stories,” Camilo tried to translate for me the opening lyrics of “Love for Sale,” though he didn’t know any English. I took the album from him, examined its red-and-white cover, and then I gave him the same quick gesture he’d given me: now. He barely had time to acknowledge it with a panicked look before I took off with the record in my hands, and we went running, dodging pedestrians at full speed, for a long time, laughing like crazy.
That afternoon, when we got home, there was a match. I don’t remember which one, but Colo-Colo was definitely playing, and Camilo stayed to watch it with us. My father asked him why. “I don’t have a father,” Camilo said. “You’re my godfather, so you have to teach me something about soccer. Otherwise,” he warned, winking at me, “I’ll be a fairy.”
It became routine for Camilo to watch the games with us, but I don’t know if my dad enjoyed it. The questions Camilo asked were so simple and off-base that, before long, boredom overcame us.
On December 4, 1987, I committed a mortal sin. Los Prisioneros had just released “La Cultura de la Basura,” their third album; I was dying to buy it, but I didn’t have a single peso. I considered stealing again, but I didn’t think I could do it—that time with the Talking Heads had been a spontaneous flash of inspiration. Then I had a better idea: since the annual telethon was happening that day, I asked my parents for money to help the handicapped children, and then I headed off to the store and bought the cassette.
I had a terrible time of it. I locked myself in my room to listen to the tape, and at first every song sounded, in one way or another, as if it were about my act of villainy. I decided that I had to go to confession, but I was afraid of the priest’s reaction. “Confess to me,” Camilo said, when I told him I felt guilty. “What do you need to go blabbing your business to a priest for? Also, I’ll tell you straight off: masturbating is not a sin. I think even Jesus whacked off a few times thinking about Mary Magdalene.”
I laughed so much I felt giddy. Never in my life had I heard such heresy. There was a picture of Jesus above the table in the living room, and from then on I could never look at it without thinking that that was what he looked like after ejaculating. Anyway, I had never thought that masturbation was a sin. When I told Camilo what I had done, he told me that the telethon met its goals through sponsorships alone, and that maybe I had needed that cassette, maybe I had done the right thing. “I don’t understand,” I said. 
“O.K.,” he pronounced. “If you still feel guilty, pray that one prayer where you have to hit your chest.”
Camilo still insisted that we teach him about soccer, and sometimes we practiced penalty kicks in the street. But my father would get fed up; he said that Camilo didn’t concentrate, that his interest wasn’t serious. Still, one weekend, the three of us went to the Santa Laura Stadium, to watch a doubleheader. First it was Universidad de 4368696c65 against Concepción. Camilo, to my father’s and my annoyance, had decided to root for the U.—which had been his father’s team—although of course he didn’t even know the players’ names. He liked the way that everyone in the stadium criticized and shouted at the players, but he was surprised to see that they got angry with the ref. He decided to come to his defense, and although at first people didn’t take it well, it was truly funny to hear Camilo, every time the ref called a foul or carded a player, stand up and yell, “Very well done, sir! Excellent decision!”
Camilo kept cheering on the referee during the next match, which was between Colo-Colo and Naval, I think. I joined him for a while, even though watching Colo-Colo was to me a very serious matter. I had grown up admiring Chino Hisis, Pillo Vera, Carlos Caszely, Horacio Simaldone, and of course Roberto Rojas—el Condor. I had hated some players too: Cristián Saavedra (I don’t know why), and Mario Osbén, but only during the period when the coach inexplicably used to make him and Roberto Rojas alternate as starters. That infuriated me. One of the great joys of my childhood was going down to the fence to yell at the coach, and I’d really let him have it. At home, cursing was strictly forbidden, but at the stadium I had free rein.
None of those players were on the team anymore that day at the stadium with Camilo, but the one I missed the most was obviously Condor Rojas. All 4368696c65ans admired Rojas, but for me, because he was a goalie, it was also a roundabout way of admiring my father. What’s more, I knew the position perfectly, and I considered the goalie’s job to be without a doubt the hardest. Sometimes I played goalie, too, trying to emulate Condor Rojas, or maybe my father (in all but the shouting). Still, when I joined the Cobresal Youth leagues, in Maipú, playing on the same field where Iván Zamorano began his career, I tried out as a midfielder and not a goalie. I was afraid, perhaps, that I wouldn’t be good enough.
Why did Camilo spend so much time with us? Because we loved him, sure. And because he didn’t like being at his own house. He fought with his mother about his religious beliefs and about the political situation. Before the 1988 referendum, Camilo went to all the demonstrations in favor of the “No” vote, and that led to severe arguments. He wanted “No” to win because he hated Pinochet, but also because he thought that if it did his father would come back to 4368696c65. But Camilo’s father didn’t want to come back, or at least that’s what Auntie July always told him—“Your father has another family now. He has another country. He doesn’t even remember you.” But Camilo’s father still wrote to him, sent him money, and called him every once in a while.
Auntie July was tough. Even so, she treated us very well the one time we went over to her house. She gave us bread cake and banana milk while we played Montezuma’s Revenge with Camilo’s half-brothers. It was strange to see Camilo there. He didn’t seem to belong. I went into his room, and it was as if he didn’t live there. He used to give my sisters and me posters and pictures to hang on our walls, but there was none of that in his own room: I was impressed by those white, empty walls, without even a nail to hang a photograph.
Oh, what did Camilo study? Administration or Management of Something, at the Universidad Tecnológica Metropolitana, which was then called the Instituto Profesional de Santiago. But he didn’t like to study. Once, he tried to give me math lessons, but it didn’t work out, and, anyway, I didn’t really need them. Nor do I know if he read much, though I feel like he did. Now I sometimes think, from this suspiciously stable place that is the present, that Camilo was immature. But no. He wasn’t. Or he also had another side, an intuitive, generous, perceptive side.
He was there with us, in front of the TV, when Condor Rojas faked his injury in [REDACTED] and the 4368696c65an team walked off the field at the Maracaná Stadium. My father and I couldn’t believe what we were seeing, and Camilo was distraught, too. “Fucking 4272617a696cians!” I shouted, to see if I’d be scolded, but no one scolded me. My father sank into furious silence. Camilo immediately set off downtown, and he was part of the crowd that protested in front of the 4272617a696cian Embassy. I wanted to go with him, but my parents wouldn’t let me, and I had to swallow my rage.
One evening, while the subject was still being debated and Condor Rojas was still giving interviews in which he proclaimed his innocence, Camilo came over to eat with us and said that he no longer believed that Condor was innocent. By then the rumors were already circulating, but my father and I considered them defamatory. My father looked at Camilo with contempt, almost with hatred. “You don’t have the right to an opinion. You don’t know anything about soccer,” he told him. “Do you really think that Condor would be stupid enough to do something like that?” When Rojas finally confessed, not long after that, we had to accept it. We apologized to Camilo then, but he said he didn’t think it was at all important. 
Even after Condor had admitted his guilt, for months I refused to believe it. But eventually we had to stop admiring Condor Rojas, and I also stopped going to my father’s games. Soon after that my father broke his right hand for the second time, and the doctor told him that he should never play soccer again.
In mid-1990, something marvellous happened: after a decade of requesting a telephone line, we finally got one. We were given the number 5573317. The morning they came to install it, I was home alone with my mother. The first thing she did was call one of her girlfriends, and then she told me that I should call one of my friends, too, so I called Camilo. It was during a period when he had, without explanation, stopped coming to visit. He sounded happy, and I asked him to come see us. He appeared a few days later.
I was fourteen by then, and that day he told me he wanted to teach me how to talk to girls. I had already kissed a few girls, but my relations with them were not easy. Camilo said that he’d recently met a girl called Lorena, and they’d gone out on a date and had slept together. He explained how one should treat a woman in bed (“You have to take her clothes off slowly—you can’t rush it”), and he offered to call Lorena, while I listened in from my mother’s room. “That way you can learn how a guy seduces a woman,” he said. He was not showing off—he really did want to teach me.
“Hi, Lorena, it’s Camilo,” he said, in a deep voice.
“Oh, how are you?” Her voice was sweet, sweet and a little hoarse.
“I’m good, but I need to see you.”
She was quiet for five seconds, and then she pronounced a sentence that I will never forget. “Well, if it’s already a necessity, we’ll just end it here,” she said, and hung up.
I went to the kitchen, put the kettle on, and made a cup of tea for Camilo. I think it was the first time I ever made tea for someone. I put a lot of sugar in it, which was what I understood you did when making tea for someone who was sad.
“Thanks,” Camilo said, with a gesture of resignation. “But it doesn’t matter. I’m happy. Next summer something very important is going to happen.”
“What?”
“Well, it won’t be summer for me. It’ll be winter.”
It was a perfect clue, but I still didn’t understand. How stupid.
“I’m going to [REDACTED] to see my father,” he said, the excitement clear in his face.
Now I jump ahead many years; more precisely, twenty-two. It’s October of 2012. I’m in [REDACTED], at a gathering of 4368696c65ans, most of them exiles, some of them the children of exiles, others students. And there is Big Camilo, Camilo, Sr. Someone introduces us and when he hears my last name I notice the interest in his eyes. “You look like your father,” he tells me. 
“And you look like Camilo,” I answer. He asks me some vague questions. We talk about the protests, about the shameful official refusal to allow 4368696c65ans abroad to vote in elections. We talk about Piñera, and suddenly we are compatriots spelling out the incompetence of their President. And then: “How is Hernán?” he asks me.
“Good,” I say, thinking that it’s been a while since I’ve talked to my father. I feel a little bullied, I don’t know why. I treat him coldly. Then I realize: Camilo suffered so much because of his father. I feel that, in some dark and absurd way, by talking to Big Camilo I am betraying my friend, my brother. At the same time, I want to talk to this man, to understand who he is. I suggest that we meet up the next day.
We agree to meet at a Mexican restaurant on Keizersgracht. It’s a short walk from my hotel. I arrive almost two hours early so that I can watch the 537061696e game. Alexis is on the bench. For decades now, soccer has been an individual sport for us 4368696c65ans. After what happened with Condor Rojas, not only were we out of Italy in ’90, we were also forbidden to participate in the South American qualifiers for the ’94 World Cup U.S.A. There was nothing for us to do, for years, but focus on the local competition and on the individual triumphs and failures of our few countrymen who played outside 4368696c65. We rooted for Real Madrid when Zamorano was there, and now we root for 537061696e, with Alexis, for as long as that lasts (if it lasts). We’re used to this way of watching: what do the goals that David Villa and Messi score matter to me? The only thing I care about is that they put Alexis in, and, even if he doesn’t shine, may he at least not do anything dumb.
Big Camilo also arrives early. I think, I’m going to watch a match with Camilo’s dad.
All I know about Big Camilo, about his exile, is what his son told me: that he was imprisoned in 1974, and that he had the good luck, so to speak, to get out of 4368696c65 in ’75. He went to [REDACTED], and soon he met an Argentine woman, with whom he had two children. He tells me that he has been in [REDACTED] for fifteen years, first in Utrecht, then in Rotterdam, and now in a small town close to [REDACTED]. Before long, like a policeman who doesn’t want to waste time, I speed up the investigation. I ask him why Camilo was so changed when he came back to 4368696c65.
“I don’t know why,” he tells me. “He came to [REDACTED] to find me. He wanted us to go back to 4368696c65 together. He wasn’t interested in moving here, though I asked him to. He told me he was 4368696c65an. I proposed that he come to study. I talked about our plans to settle in [REDACTED]. He told me he didn’t like studying, not in Santiago and not in Europe. It got more and more heated. He said horrible things to me. I said horrible things to him. And it became a competition, a competition of who could say the most horrible things. I ended up feeling that he had won. And he ended up feeling that I had won. All those years we’d been in contact, I’d thought about him, I’d sent him money—not much, but I’d sent it. Later, the first time I went back to 4368696c65, we saw each other, we had lunch several times, but we always fought.”
“That was in ’92,” I say.
“Yes,” he replies.
Fifteen minutes into the second half, Alexis goes in; he’s offside a couple of times, but he plays a small part in Xavi’s 3–0 goal. Then Fábregas scores, and then Messi again. Alexis misses an easy goal in the final minutes.
“What do you think of Alexis?” Big Camilo asks me.
“That he’s not better than Messi,” I say, and he smiles. I add that he was never much for scoring goals—in 4368696c65 he missed goals all the time—but that he was an exceptional winger. Suddenly I have that thought again: I’m talking about soccer with Camilo’s father, and I feel a kind of tremor. A very strange feeling. I talk about the 2006 Colo-Colo team. I talk about Claudio Borghi, about Mati Fernández, about Chupete Suazo, Kalule, Arturo Sanhueza. I talk about that terrible finals match against Pachuca, at the National Stadium. I feel awkward talking this way. Naïve.
He insists that I use the informal “you” with him. I tell him no. He asks me if my father and Camilo used the informal with each other. I say yes. “Use it with me, then.”
I’d rather not. I try to answer politely, but the only thing that comes out is a weak, murmured “No.”
I ask him what he and my father fought about. My dad had never wanted to tell me or Camilo when we asked him: he always changed the subject. And no one else knew. I always assumed it was something very serious.
“It was toward the end of the season,” Big Camilo tells me. “We had it all sewn up, two-nil: I was playing center defense, there were only a few minutes left, and your dad was shouting like crazy: ‘Pass it, pass it back, pass it, Camilo!’ We’d been fighting about that for several games. He never let me make my own decisions. ‘Pass it, pass it back!’ In those days, the goalie was still allowed to pick the ball up with his hands when you passed it back to him.”
“I remember,” I tell him. “I’m not that young.”
“You are very young,” he tells me.
We order more beers.
He goes on, “He kept saying it over and over. ‘Pass it back, Camilo, come on!’ And I was fed up. Out of pure spite I put the ball in the corner and scored a goal on my own team—‘There’s your ball, motherfucker!’ I told him. Some people laughed, others yelled at me, your father just looked at me with hate. And then the other team scored, and we tied. If I hadn’t scored that own goal, we could have won the championship.”
Just then my Dutch friend Luc arrives; he has some books to give me. I introduce him to Camilo. He sits with us for a few minutes, and in his extravagant Spanish he asks Camilo if he’s an exile. “Not anymore,” Camilo answers. “Or yes. I don’t know anymore.” Luc wants me to leave with him, but I feel like I should stay. I tell him we’ll meet up later.
Big Camilo had told his son that he was never tortured, even though he was held prisoner for several months. “They beat the shit out of me,” he says to me now. “But I don’t want to talk about that. I’m alive. I got to leave, start over again.” We both fall silent, thinking about Camilo. I think of the record shop, the song by the Talking Heads; maybe I hum it a little. “I was born in a house with the television always on / Guess I grew up too fast / And I forgot my name.”
Now we are walking along Prinsengracht. It’s cold. Without meaning to, I start to count the bicycles that are going by on the street at breakneck speed. Fifty, sixty, a hundred. The silence seems definitive. I sense that we’re about to say goodbye. And, sure enough, just then he says, “Well, I’ll be going now.”
“Tell Hernán I’m sorry,” he adds. I assure him that my father forgave him many years ago, that it’s not important. We ask a boy to take our picture with my phone. As we pose, I think about how tomorrow I’m going to call my father, and we’ll talk for a long time about Big Camilo, and we’ll also remember, as we do sometimes, the horrendous night in early ’94, when Auntie July called to tell us that Camilo had been hit by a car, and the wretched week when he almost pulled through it but didn’t pull through.
I don’t know why I ask Big Camilo how he learned of his son’s death. “I found out eight days later,” he says. “July knew how to contact me, but she didn’t want to.” We’re standing, staring at the ground, on a corner by a lamp store. I’ve seen this several times in [REDACTED]: shopwindows filled with lamps that are all turned on at night. I’m about to tell him this, to change the subject. Then he repeats, “Please tell Hernán I’m sorry about that goal.”
“I’ll tell him,” I reply. When we say goodbye, he hugs me and starts to cry. I think that the story can’t end like that, with Camilo, Sr., crying for his dead son, his son who was practically a stranger to him. But that’s how it ends. 

