The Frog Prince
By Robert Coover
At first, it was great. Sure. It always is. She cuddled a frog, wishing for more, and—presto! A handsome prince who doted on her. It meant the end of her marriage, of course, but her ex was something of a toad himself, who had a nasty habit of talking with his mouth full and a tongue good for nothing but licking stamps.
The prince was adorable—all the girls at the bridge club, squirming with envy, said so—though you could still see the effects his previous residence had had on him. He had heavy-lidded eyes and a wide mouth like a hand puppet’s, his complexion was a bit off, and his loose-fitting skin was thin and clammy. His semen had a muddy taste, like the pond he came from, and his little apparatus was disappointing, but his tongue was amazing. It could reach the deepest recesses, triggering sensations she’d never known before. His crown was not worn like a hat—it grew out of his head like horns and sometimes got in the way—but his tongue was long enough for detours and tickled other parts on the path in. It gave him not so much a lisp as a consonantal slurp, making gibberish out of his sweet nothings, but talking was never the main thing between them.
She had discovered, when he was still an amphibian and they were just getting into the kissing game, that licking him would give her a stunning hallucinogenic high, and that was still true a metamorphosis later, but though she could get a buzz by licking the frog anywhere, she had to go looking for it on the prince, mostly in the nether parts. He wasn’t the cleanest of princes, but the trip was worth it. She was transported to another realm, a kind of fairy kingdom where she could have anything she desired: wealth, beauty, a spectacular wardrobe, a winning bridge hand, cream-filled chocolates with zero calories, and love whenever she wanted it, which was most of the time, even when she was doing other things, like presiding over a royal banquet or reviewing the palace guard. Just wham, bam, grand slam! Glorious! It all tended to vanish when the high wore off, but another lick and she was back again.
Her suburban life began to pale by comparison, but whenever she asked the prince to transport her to his real kingdom he always took her back to the pond where she’d found him. He was very happy there. He’d crawl into the mud, digging in until only his protruding eyes peered out, his crown seeming to float on the surface. At home, his eyes were sometimes wide awake and popping; at other times, especially when he was eating, they sank away and almost disappeared. But at the pond he was always goggle-eyed. Now and then he would unfurl his tongue and burp and she would get into the mud with him. It wasn’t the same as the hallucinatory kingdom, but it was still very nice.
His frequent burping blighted his regal dignity somewhat, but at the same time it was the most lovable thing about him, and when he burped he always gazed at her in an especially affectionate way. When he was still a frog, he had taken his skin off from time to time to eat it. Fortunately, the prince did not do that, though his long tongue did snap up anything that dripped or flaked off, which sometimes spoiled her appetite. About once a month, he removed his clothes and crawled up on her back and locked his skinny legs around her for several days, his long toes fondling her bosom, his padded thumbs stuck to her armpits like Velcro. She couldn’t shake him off, but had to wait until whatever it was that he was doing was done. It was probably obscene, though thankfully she couldn’t see it; certainly she had to launder her skirts and blouses afterward. It was difficult with the prince pasted to her back even to do her shopping or get her hair done, and she had to sit sideways on chairs and on the toilet. But the worst thing about these times was that she lost access to her high. If only she had a tongue like his!
As soon as he dismounted and before he could put his royal pantaloons on, she’d get her nose right down there, drug fiend that she was, and lick her way back to the fairy kingdom. And on one such day (or night, one could never be sure in that place) when she was pinned, spread-eagled, by croquet wickets on the sunny (moonlit?) palace lawn for the pleasure of all, her euphoric self included—goodness! she was popping like his eyes did—he asked her in his slurping way if she was happy where she was. Oh, yes, totally!she exclaimed breathlessly, so he left her there and, if she understood him correctly, went back to the pond to crawl into the mud. Well, she missed him, just as she missed her friends at the bridge club and, truth be told, her ex as well, but she was having too much wild royal fun to think about it, or to think about anything, really, highs being like that.
It was fantastic and seemingly unending, but, alas, nothing lasts forever, least of all ecstasy, and so one day there she was at home again, lying like a deflated air bag on her filthy kitchen floor. She mopped the floor, bagged up the mess in the refrigerator, opened all the windows, and hurried back to the pond, looking for the prince. She chased burps all day and all night, but he was nowhere to be found. The weather had changed. Perhaps he was hibernating.
For a lonely year she kept up the search, at first somewhat desperately, kissing and licking any frogs she managed to catch, but eventually she resigned herself to the futility of her quest and sorrowfully abandoned it. She recalled then the prince’s own sorrow and disappointment. He’d thought this would be more fun, he’d confessed to her once in the mud. Of course, she’d been hurt by that and had pretended not to hear him, but she understood now, as she should have understood then, that he had been not an enchanted prince turned into a frog but a frog turned into a prince, and all he’d wanted was to be a frog again. 
In the end, she got in touch with her ex and told him that she had been hooked on a weird drug but had kicked it now, and if he’d like to come back she’d welcome him. He was also lonely, smoking and drinking too much, his own affairs having come to nothing, and so, gratefully, he returned, and they found a certain contentment, living more or less happily ever after, which is what “now” is while one’s in it. 

