Come Together
By Karl Ove Knausgaard
Iwas almost twelve years old, going into the fifth year of barneskole. At times it was as though the girls really hated me, considered me some sort of scum; at others it was the opposite—not only did they want to talk to me but at the class parties we had begun to arrange, at one another’s houses and at school, they also wanted to dance with me. My attitude toward them was also ambivalent, at least as far as the girls in my class were concerned. On the one hand, I knew them so well I was completely indifferent toward them; on the other hand, they had started changing—the bulges under their sweaters were growing, their hips were widening, and they were behaving differently. They had risen above us: suddenly the boys they looked at were from two or three classes up. With our high-pitched voices, our more or less furtive glances as we admired all the attributes they now possessed, we were no more than air to them. But, no matter how important they were, they knew nothing about the world they were moving toward. What did they know about men and women and desire? Had they read Wilbur Smith, where women were taken by force under stormy skies? Had they read Ken Follett, where a man shaves a woman’s pussy while she lies in a foam-filled bathtub with her eyes closed? Had they read “Insect Summer,” by Knut Faldbakken, the passage that I knew by heart, when the boy takes the girl’s panties off in the hay? Had they ever got their hands on a porn magazine? And what did they know about music? They liked what everyone liked—the Kids and all the other crap on the top-ten lists. It meant nothing to them, not really; they had no idea what music was or what it could be. They could barely dress; they turned up at school wearing the strangest combinations of clothes. And then they were looking down on me?
Every Friday we had something we called “Class Top of the Pops.” Six students brought a song each and we all voted for our favorite one. Mine always came in last, whatever I played. Led Zeppelin, Queen, Wings, the Beatles, the Police, the Jam, Skids—the result was the same, only one or two votes, last. I knew that my classmates were voting against me and not the music. They weren’t really listening to the music. This irritated me beyond endurance. I complained to my older brother Yngve, and he not only understood how irritating it was but also came up with a way to trick them. The Kids’ second record hadn’t been released yet. One Friday I took to school the Aller Værste!’s first LP, “Materialtretthet,” which Yngve had bought a few days before, and said that I had an advance copy of the Kids’ new album. When the first notes of the band’s first song sounded in the classroom, there were mumbles of appreciation and mounting enthusiasm, which culminated when the vote was taken, and it turned out that the Aller Værste! had won, hands down. How the triumph shone in my eyes as I stood and informed them that they had not voted for the Kids.
Of course, I never heard the last of it. I was conceited, I thought I was quite something, I always had to like weird things, instead of what everyone else liked. That wasn’t true, though. Surely it wasn’t my fault that I liked good music? And I was learning more and more about it, thanks to Yngve and his music magazines and the records he played me. He also taught me chords on the guitar, and when he wasn’t at home I would play by myself with the black Gibson plectrum in my hand and the black Fender strap over my shoulder. The only person on my wavelength at school was Dag Magne. We were mostly up at his house, playing records and trying to imitate the songs on his twelve-string guitar or talking about girls or the band we were going to start, especially what we were going to call it. He wanted it to be Dag Magne’s Anonymous Disciples; I wanted it to be Blood Clot. They were equally good, we agreed, and we didn’t need to make a decision until the time was ripe and we were performing on a stage.
In this way the winter passed, with the first class parties, where we played post office and slow-danced, round and round the floor with girls we knew better than our sisters, and my head almost exploded when I held Anne Lisbet’s body so close to mine. The fragrance of her hair, the sparkling eyes that were bursting with life. And, oh, the little breasts under the thin white blouse.
Wasn’t that a fantastic feeling?
It was completely new, unknown for all these years, but, now I knew it, now I wanted to go there again.
Spring came, with its light, which held the passage to night open a little longer each day, and with its cold rain, which caused the snow to slump and dwindle. One of those stormy March mornings, we had gym class.
In the changing room afterward, the ventilation grilles howled and wheezed as though the building were alive, a huge beast full of rooms, corridors, and shafts that had settled here beside the school and in its despondency sang lonely laments. Or perhaps it was the sounds that were alive. I took my towel and went into the shower, which was already hot with steam. I found a place among the throng of pale, almost marble-white boys’ bodies, and was engulfed by the hot water that first hit the top of my head and then ran in steady streams down my face and chest, neck and back. My hair stuck to my forehead and I closed my eyes. That was when someone shouted.
“Tor’s got a hard-on! Tor’s got a hard-on!”
I opened my eyes and looked over at Sverre, the boy who had shouted. He was pointing across the narrow room to where Tor was standing, with his arms down by his sides, his dick in the air and a smile on his face.
Tor had the biggest dick in the class, or, perhaps, in the whole school. It dangled between his legs like a pork sausage, and this was no secret, because he always wore tight trousers and placed it at an angle, pointing upward, so that everyone could see. Yes, it was big. But now, in its erect state, it was enormous.
“Jumping Jehoshaphat,” Geir Håkon shouted.
Everyone looked at Tor. There was a sudden excitement in the atmosphere, and it was obvious that something had to be done. Such an extraordinary circumstance could not be allowed to go to waste.
“Let’s take him to Fru Hensel!” Sverre shouted. “Come on, quick, before it’s too late!”
Fru Hensel was our gym teacher. She came from [REDACTED] and spoke broken Norwegian. She was meticulous yet distant—in sum, what we called snooty. As a teacher she was a nightmare because she had a predilection for gym apparatus and hardly ever let us play soccer.
Tor protested and writhed as Sverre and three others carried him out of the shower, but rather halfheartedly. The rest of us followed. And it was quite a sight. Tor, stark naked with an enormous stiffy, carried by four boys, also naked, and followed by a procession of more naked boys. Once in front of Fru Hensel, they stood him up as though he were a statue to be examined, left him like that for five seconds or so, then laid him down and charged back to the changing room.
Few of us believed there would be any consequences, for the simple reason that it would be embarrassing for Fru Hensel to take the matter any further. We were wrong. The only person to come out of this with his honor intact was Tor, who emerged as a victim—the headmaster, the class teacher, and Fru Hensel regarded the incident as a case of bullying—and a winner, for now everyone, including the girls, knew about this sensational detail of his physique without his having had to lift a finger.
That night I posed naked in front of the mirror for a long time.
It was easier said than done. The only full-length mirror we had was in the hall by the stairs. I couldn’t exactly stand there naked, even if there was no one in the house, because someone could come home at any moment, and even if I reacted quickly that person would still see my butt beating a swift retreat up the stairs.
No, it had to be the bathroom mirror.
But it was designed solely for faces. If you got up close with your legs as far back as possible you could catch a glimpse of your body but from such a bizarre angle that it told you nothing.
So I waited until Mom had finished washing up after dinner and had taken a seat in the living room with the newspaper and a cup of coffee. Then I fetched a chair from the kitchen. If she asked what I was doing with it, I could say I was going to stand the cassette player on it while I was in the bath.
But she didn’t ask.
First I looked at the front of my body.
My dick wasn’t like Tor’s, not at all. More like a little cork. Or a kind of spring, because it quivered when you flicked it lightly.
I put it in my hand. How big was it?
Then I turned and looked at it from the side. In fact, it seemed a bit bigger that way.
Anyway, it looked like all the dicks in our class, apart from Tor’s, didn’t it?
I fared worse with my arms. They were so thin. So was my chest. I was supposed to do push-ups in soccer training, but I always cheated, because in reality, and only I knew this, I couldn’t do a single one.
Finally, I ran my bath. The hot water stung my skin so much that it was impossible to sit. But I managed. I sat, got up, sat, got up, sat, got up until my skin was used to the temperature and I could lie there, letting the heat wash over me while music poured from the little tape player and I sang at the top of my lungs, dreaming about becoming famous and what all the girls I knew would say then. I feel lo lo lo, I sang. I feel lo lo lo, I feel lo lo lo. I feel lo lo lo, I feel lo lo lo, I feel lo lo lo. Lo, I feel lo. I feel lo. I feel so lonely. I feel so lonely. I feel so lonely lonely lonely lo. I feel so lonely lonely lonely lo. I feel so lonely lonely lonely lo. Lonely lone. Ah I feel SO LONELY! So lonely. So lonely. So lonely. So lonely. So lonely. I feel so lonely. I feel so lonely. I feel so lonely.
I caught every little nuance in Sting’s voice, even the whimper at the end.
The seventeenth of May was the high point of spring for us, as Christmas was of the winter. At school, we sang “Vi Ere en Nasjon, Vi Med,” “Norge i Rødt, Hvitt og Blått,” and “Ja, Vi Elsker”; we learned about Henrik Wergeland and what happened at Eidsvoll in 1814. At home, ribbons and flags were taken out, along with all the flutes and horns we could find. From the very early morning all the families on our housing estate, in Tybakken, would emerge from their houses wearing traditional costume, or their best dresses or suits, and head for Arendal, where crowds lined the long street along which the procession would pass. And the procession, that was us. All the schools in the district would be marching.
It was raining when I got up, and I was upset about that because I had to wear a waterproof anorak and trousers over my new clothes. I had been given light-blue Levi’s, a pair of white Tretorn tennis shoes, and a grayish-white, waist-length jacket. I was especially pleased with the jeans. The atmosphere in Arendal was feverish but expectant. As we approached the assembly area, with the skies delivering unfailingly regular bursts of drizzle, it became clear that we would be walking side by side with a class from Roligheden School. I played soccer with some of the boys, but there were many faces I had never seen.
A girl turned.
She had wavy blond hair and large blue eyes, and she smiled at me.
I didn’t smile back, but I held her gaze. The procession began to move. Somewhere far ahead a band was playing. One of our teachers began to sing, and we joined in. After marching for perhaps twenty minutes, some of us, especially the boys, found our patience waning; we started laughing and fooling around, and when some boys used their flags to lift girls’ skirts the idea caught on. I made my way toward the blond girl, along with Dag Magne, fortunately, so that I was part of something and not just acting on my own. I put my flag under a pleat of her skirt and lifted; she spun on her heel, holding her skirt down with one hand, and shouted, “Don’t you dare. Don’t you dare.” But the eyes that looked at me were smiling.
I did it to some other girls as well, so that it wouldn’t be suspicious if I approached her again.
“Don’t do that!” she said this time, and ran ahead, away from me. “Don’t be so childish!”
Was she really angry?
Seconds passed. Then she turned and smiled. Briefly, but it was enough: she wasn’t angry, she didn’t think I was childish.
I studied the girl again. She wasn’t very tall, and she was wearing a pink jacket, a light-blue skirt, and thin white stockings. Her nose was small, her mouth large, and she had a little cleft in her chin.
I felt pains in my stomach.
When she spun around to keep her skirt from being lifted, I had seen that she had big breasts; her jacket had been open and the white sweater beneath insubstantial.
Oh, dear God, please let me go out with her.
I didn’t even know her name.
That autumn, our band finally became a reality. The name I’d chosen won the day: Blood Clot was what we wrote on our jackets and satchels, and we practiced in the basement of the new chapel. Dag Magne had arranged it; his mother did the cleaning for a doctor who was on the church committee. Dag Magne was also the only one of us who could play or who evinced anything that resembled musical talent. He played the guitar and sang, I played the guitar, Kent Arne played the bass, Dag Lothar the drums. At the end-of-term Christmas party, we were booked in the gymnasium. Although the band came apart at the seams, everyone playing at his own tempo, and Kent Arne tuning his bass in the middle, and although most of the audience was critical, even the fourth years venturing a few snide remarks, the feeling among us afterward, as we stood in the school playground, in ripped jeans and denim jackets, and with scarves around our necks, could not have been better. We were in the sixth class now, would soon be in the ungdomsskole,and we were in a band. The fact that the band split up right after that, as neither Dag Lothar nor Kent Arne wanted to continue, was a setback, but Dag Magne and I carried on as a duo, recording songs at his house, listening to music, dreaming of a breakthrough.
That spring, at a school parents’ evening, we performed two songs. Before we played, I gave a little introductory talk about punk to the parents.
“In recent years a completely new form of music has sprung up among the English working classes,” I explained. “Some of you may have heard about it. It’s called punk. Those who play punk are not great musicians but rebels who want to rebel against society. They wear leather jackets and studded belts and they’ve got safety pins everywhere. You could say the safety pin is their symbol.”
I gazed enthusiastically across the assembly of hairdressers, secretaries, nurses, housecleaners, and housewives. Before every Christmas and summer holiday for the past five years they had seen me standing on the stage, either as Joseph in the Nativity play or as the mayor in “Borgmester i Byen,” and now here I was again, this time as a spokesman for punk and a member of Blood Clot.
Our next performance was during a class. We played the same two songs. After we finished, most of the students whistled and the teacher, the red-bearded Finsådal, went over to Dag Magne and said his guitar playing was beginning to take off.
That hurt.
Slowly the dream of overnight fame as a pop star faded while another appeared: our soccer coach, Øyvind, gathered us together at the end of a training session and said that we might be playing the pre-match game, at Kristiansand Stadium, before IK Start versus Mjøndalen. For me, playing at the stadium, with the opportunity to be seen not only by the immense crowd but also by the professional players themselves, was charged with enormous significance. I played for one of the region’s best teams, and I always thought that my being one of the worst players on the team, slow and without much skill, was a temporary state of affairs. Actually I was good, actually I could do everything as well as the others, it was just a matter of time before it would become evident. I felt like this because in my mind I could knock in goals from every conceivable and inconceivable angle and steam past whoever was on the wing. All I needed to do was align my actions with my thoughts, making them one and the same, and then it was done. Why couldn’t that happen during a pre-match game at Kristiansand Stadium?
Yes, that was how it was. It was all in my head.
We trained and played home games at Kjenna, a field just below the big housing estate in Brattekleiv, about half an hour by bike from Tybakken, and most of the boys I played with came from there.
That was when I saw her again.
The beginning of June, blue sky, not a cloud in sight. Even though the sun was low and the shadows from the trees stretched across the pitch, it was still so hot that sweat ran down my face and neck as we panted and puffed and kicked and the ball thudded between us. I had white Umbro shorts and a pair of Le Coq Sportif boots, which I polished after every session and would turn around in my hand and admire with immense pleasure and satisfaction.
That evening four girls jumped off their bikes at the end of the field, pressed down the kickstands, and strolled, laughing and chatting, over to the side of the field, by some rocks. Girls did sometimes come and watch us, but I had never seen her there before. For it was her, there was no doubt.
For the rest of the practice, I was aware of her at every moment. Everything I did, I did for her. When we had finished playing, done our stretching exercises, and the XL-1 bottles had been passed around, I sat down on the grass below the girls with Lars and Hans Christian. Lars shouted some insults up to them and received laughter and more insults in return.
“Do you know them?” I said, as warily as I could.
“Yes,” Lars said, bored.
“Are they in your class?”
“Yes. Kajsa and Sunniva. The others are in H.C.’s class.”
I leaned back on the grass with my hands behind my head and my eyes squinting into the rays of the orange sun. One of my teammates ducked his whole head into a bucket of water by the touchline. He straightened up and tossed his head. The drops of water formed a glittering arc in the air for a brief instant before dissipating.
“I’ve seen one of them before,” I said. “The one on the far right. What’s her name?”
“Kajsa?”
“Oh, really?”
Lars glanced at me. He had curly hair, freckles, and a slightly cheeky expression, but his eyes were warm and always had a glint.
“We’re neighbors,” he said. “I’ve known her since I learned to walk. Are you interested?”
“No-oo,” I said.
Lars bored a rigid finger into my chest a few times.
“Ye-es,” he said, grinning. “Should I introduce you?”
“Introduce?” I said, my mouth suddenly dry.
“Isn’t that what it’s called, you who know everything?”
“Yes, I suppose it is. No. Not now. That is, not at all. I’m not interested. I was just wondering. I thought I had seen her before.”
“Kajsa’s nice,” Lars said. Then he whispered, “And she’s got big breasts.”
“Yes,” I said. I turned without thinking and looked at her. Lars laughed and got up. She looked at me.
She looked at me!
I cycled home along the old gravel road through the forest, where the air had cooled. The sun shone on the ridge close by, still bare after a fire the previous year, before it disappeared where the hills began and tall, dense spruce trees lined both sides of the road like a wall. My bike was the same one I’d had since I was small, a DBS Kombi, with the seat and the handlebars raised as far as they would go, which made it look like a kind of mutant. I sang at the top of my voice as I flew around all the bumps and potholes and sometimes skidded sideways with a static rear wheel:
Shoot, shoot!
Dodiddilidodo
Shoot, shoot!
Dodiddilidodo
Shoot, shoot!
Dodiddilidodo
You come all flattarp he come
Groovin’ out slowly he got
Ju ju eyeball he won
Holy roller he got
Here down to his knees
Got to be a joker, he just do what he pleases.
That was the opening track on the “Abbey Road” LP, “Come Together,” or, at least, how it sounded to my ears. Well, I knew it wasn’t exactly what they sang, but what did it matter as I whizzed down the hill in the forest, absolutely throbbing with happiness? At the crossroads I braked for a car, then picked up speed and pedalled as hard as I could up the gravel on the other side. I swallowed a midge or two and tried in vain to cough them up, crossed the main road, and followed the bike path down to the Fina station, where a gang of kids were sitting at the tables outside, their bikes and mopeds parked a little way from them. No one took any notice of me, if indeed they saw me at all.
The quickest way to cycle home from here was along the main road, but I jumped off at a path on the way and began to push my bike uphill. Soon all around me was forest, not a house or a road to be seen. There were trees everywhere, tall, broad-crowned deciduous trees, cluttered with green leaves, full of chattering birds. The path, which was no more than beaten earth and bare rockface, was crossed in several places by huge roots that resembled prehistoric animals. The grass growing alongside the streambed was thick and lush. In the wilderness at the bottom there were fallen trees with smooth trunks, and many plants covered the bed between the dry, lifeless branches, which had been there for as long as I could remember. It was easy to imagine that the forest was deep, endlessly deep, and full of mystery.
Kajsa was constantly on my mind in the following weeks. I had two recurrent images of her. In one she was turning to me, with her blond hair and blue eyes, wearing the pink and light-blue clothes of the seventeenth of May. In the second she was lying naked in front of me in a field. The latter I conjured up every night before I went to sleep. The thought of her big white breasts and pink nipples made my body ache. I lay writhing while imagining various indistinct but intense things that I did with her. The second image aroused something else in me. Once, as I was jumping off a cliff, floating in the air with the sun on my face, I caught a glimpse of her in my mind, and a wild cheer broke free from my stomach, more or less at the same instant that my feet hit the surface and my body plunged into the bluish-green seawater, and, surrounded by a rush of bubbles and with the taste of salt on my lips, I headed for the surface again with slow arm movements and a quiver of happiness in my chest. At the dinner table, while I was peeling the skin off a piece of cod, or chewing a mouthful of hashed lung, her image might suddenly appear and she was so radiant that everything else was pushed into the shadows. But I didn’t see her at all in reality. The distance as the crow flies between our two estates was only a few kilometres, but the social distance was greater and could not be covered by either bike or bus. Kajsa was a dream, an image in my head, a star in the firmament.
Then something happened.
After another match on the Kjenna pitch, a girl came over to me. “Can I have a word with you?” she said.
“Yes, of course,” I said.
A hope so wild that it made me smile was ignited.
“Do you know who Kajsa is?” she said.
I reddened and looked down.
“Yes,” I said.
“She wants me to ask you a question,” she said.
“What?” I said.
A wave of heat surged up inside me, as though my chest were filling with blood.
“Kajsa was wondering if you would like to go out with her,” she said. “Would you?”
“Yes,” I said.
“Great,” she said. “She’s waiting over by the changing room. Will we see you there afterward?”
“Yes,” I said. “That’s fine.”
As she went away I looked down at the ground for a second. Thank God, I said to myself. Because now it had happened. Now I was going out with Kajsa!
With Kajsa.
Dazed, I began to walk along the touchline. Suddenly it struck me that I had a big problem. She was there, waiting for me. I would have to speak to her. We would have to do something together. What would it be?
On my way into the changing room, I could either pretend I didn’t see her or just flash a fleeting smile because I had to go and change. But then when I had to go out again . . .
It was a mild evening, the air smelled of grass and was filled with birdsong. We had won, and the voices rising from the changing room were triumphant. Kajsa was standing in the road nearby with the girl I’d talked to and another friend. She smiled. I smiled back.
“Hi,” I said.
“Hi,” she said.
“I’ll just get changed,” I said. “Be out afterward.”
She nodded.
In the shedlike changing room, I undressed as slowly as possible while feverishly trying to think of a way to extricate myself with honor. To go off with her, unprepared, was inconceivable, it would never work. So I had to find a convincing excuse. Homework? I wondered, loosening a shin guard, slippery with sweat. No, that would give her a bad impression of me.
I went back out without having prepared anything.
“Hi,” I said, stopping in front of Kajsa and her friends, with my hands around the handlebars of my bike.
“You were so good, all of you,” Kajsa said.
She was wearing a white T-shirt. Her breasts bulged beneath it. Levi’s 501s with a red plastic belt. White socks. White Nike sneakers with a light-blue logo.
I swallowed.
“Do you think so?” I said.
She nodded. “Are you coming with us?”
“Actually, I don’t have a lot of time this evening.”
“No?”
“No. I really should be going now.”
“Oh, that’s a shame,” she said, meeting my eyes. “What do you have to do?”
“I promised I would help my father with something. A wall he’s building. But can’t we meet tomorrow?”
“Of course.”
“Where, then?”
“I can go to your place after school.”
“Do you know where I live?”
“Tybakken, right?”
“Yes, that’s right.”
I swung a leg over my bike. “Bye!” I said.
“Bye!” she said. “See you tomorrow!”
I cycled off, casually to the observer, until I was out of sight, then I stood on the pedals, leaned forward, and began to pump like a wild man. It was absolutely fantastic and absolutely awful. Go to your place, she’d said. She knew where I lived. And she wanted to be with me. Not only that. We were going out. I was going out with Kajsa! Oh, everything I wanted was now within reach! Though not yet. What would I talk to her about? What would we do?
After supper I went into Yngve’s room and told him what had happened.
“I got together with Kajsa today,” I said.
He looked up from the schoolbooks spread out on his desk and smiled.
“Kajsa? I haven’t heard her name before. Who’s she?”
“She’s at Roligheden. In the sixth class. She’s gorgeous.”
“I don’t doubt that,” Yngve said. “Congratulations.”
“Thanks,” I said. “But there’s just one thing . . . I need some advice . . .”
“Yeah?”
“I don’t know . . . Well, I don’t know her at all. I don’t know . . . what should we do? She’s coming here tomorrow, you see. I don’t even know what to say!”
“It’ll be fine,” Yngve said. “Just don’t think about it and it’ll be fine. You can always make out instead of talking!”
“Ha-ha.”
“It’ll be fine, Karl Ove. Relax.”
“Do you think so?”
“Goes without saying.”
Back in my room, I put on “McCartney II” and lay down on the bed. Every so often I had an attack of the shivers. Imagine me actually going out with her! Perhaps she was lying on her bed, in her room, in her house, thinking about me at this very minute? Perhaps she had gone to bed, perhaps she was wearing only panties in bed? I rolled over onto my stomach and rubbed my groin against the mattress while singing “Temporary Secretary” and thinking about all that lay in store for me.
She arrived an hour after we’d had dinner. I had been walking to and fro by the windows facing the road and was as prepared as I could be. Nevertheless, it was a shock to see her cycling up the hill. For a few seconds I was unable to breathe normally. Kent Arne, Geir Håkon, and Leif Tore were outside, hanging over the handlebars of their bikes, and when they all turned to look at her I felt a surge of pride. No one had ever seen a more attractive girl in Tybakken. And it was me that she had come to see.
I put on my shoes and jacket and went out and grabbed my bike.
“She was asking where you lived, Karl Ove!” Geir Håkon said.
“Oh yes?” I said to him, meeting Kajsa’s gaze. “Hi,” I said. “You found your way here?”
“Yes, it was no problem,” she said. “I didn’t know exactly which house it was, but . . .”
“Shall we go?” I said.
“All right,” she said.
I mounted my bike. She mounted hers.
“See you!” I said to the boys. I turned to her. “We can go up there.”
“Great,” she said.
I knew that they were watching us and that they were more than ordinarily envious of me. How on earth had he done it? they were thinking. Where had he met her? And how in the name of all things living and moving had he managed to land her?
After we cycled part of the way up, Kajsa got off her bike. I did the same. A wind rose through the forest, rustling the leaves beside us, and then it dropped. The sound of tires on tarmac. Trouser legs rubbing against each other. The cork soles of her sandals on the road.
I waited for her to come alongside me.
“That’s a nice jacket,” I said. “Where did you get it?”
“Thank you,” she said. “At Bajazzo’s, in Kristiansand.”
“Oh,” I said.
We reached the intersection with Elgstien. Her breasts were swaying; my eyes were permanently drawn to them. Did she notice?
“We can go over to the shop and see if anyone’s there,” I said.
“Mmm,” she said.
Was she regretting this already?
Should I kiss her now? Would that be right?
We were at the top of the hill, and I swung a leg over my bike saddle. I waited until her feet were on her pedals, then I set off. Another gust of wind blew past us. I freewheeled down the little hill to B-Max. It was closed, and there was no one around.
“Doesn’t seem to be anyone here,” I said. “Shall we go to your house?”
“All right,” she said.
I decided I would kiss her if a glimmer of a chance arose. And definitely hold her hand. Something had to happen. After all, we were girlfriend and boyfriend now.
But no chance arose. We cycled along the old gravel road up to Kjenna, which was deserted, then up the hills to her house, and stopped outside. We hadn’t exchanged many words on the way, but enough to know it hadn’t been a disaster.
“Mom and Dad are at home,” she said. “So you can’t come in.”
Did that mean I could when they weren’t?
“O.K.,” I said. “But it’s late. Perhaps I should be getting back.”
“Yes, it’s quite a long way!” she said.
“Shall we meet again tomorrow?” I said.
“I can’t,” she said. “We’re going out in the boat.”
“On Thursday then?”
“Yes. Will you come up here?”
“Yes, of course.”
The bikes were between us the whole time. It wasn’t possible to lean over and kiss her. And perhaps she wouldn’t have wanted it, either, right in front of her house.
I got back on my bike.
“I’ll be off then,” I said. “See you!”
Well, it could have been worse. I hadn’t got very far, but nothing had been ruined forever. It couldn’t continue like this, I realized; we couldn’t just talk. If we did, everything would wither and die. I had to kiss her; we had to do what proper boyfriends and girlfriends did. But how to make the move? I couldn’t just put my arms around her, out of the blue. Imagine if she didn’t want it! Imagine if I couldn’t pull the move off! Yet it had to happen, and it would have to happen the next time, that much was certain. And in a suitable place where no one could see us.
Thank God for her boat trip. It gave me two whole days to plan.
As I was about to fall asleep, I remembered that we had soccer practice on Thursday. Which meant that I would have to call and tell her. All next day I dreaded it. Our telephone at home was in the hall. Everyone could hear what was said, unless I closed the sliding door, but that was bound to arouse my parents’ curiosity, so the best thing would be to call from a phone booth. There was one by the bus stop opposite the Fina station, and I cycled down there as late as I could—to be precise, a little after eight. If there was nothing special going on, I had to be home by eight-thirty, because I had to be in bed by nine-thirty on weekdays. The rule was inflexible, even though everyone I knew stayed up later.
Having parked my bike, I searched for her home number in the telephone directory. What I was going to say had been reverberating around in my head.
I dialled the whole number, apart from the last digit, very quickly. Then I waited a few seconds to get my breathing under control and dialled the last digit.
“Pedersen,” a woman’s voice said.
“May I speak to Kajsa, please?” I said hurriedly.
“Who’s calling?”
“Karl Ove,” I said.
“Just a moment.”
There was a pause. I heard footsteps fading into the distance, voices. A bus came down the hill and slowly pulled into the bus stop. I pressed the receiver tighter against my ear.
“Hello?” Kajsa said.
“Is that Kajsa?” I said.
“Yes,” she said.
“This is Karl Ove,” I said.
“I could hear that!” she said.
“Hi,” I said.
“Hi,” she said.
“I have to go to soccer tomorrow,” I said. “So I can’t make it to your house as we agreed.”
“Then I’ll see you down there. You’ll be at Kjenna, won’t you?”
“Yes.”
Pause.
“Was it nice?” I said.
“Was what nice?”
“The boat trip? Was it nice?”
“Yes.”
Pause.
“See you tomorrow then!” I said.
“Yes. Bye,” she said.
“Bye.” 
I put down the receiver. The air was warm and full of fumes from the idling bus engine. I cycled off. My forehead was coated in sweat. I ran my hand through my hair. My hand was sweaty, too. But my hair was fine; I had washed it the night before so that it would be perfect for the date with Kajsa. Outside B-Max, I stopped. Rested my foot against the curbstone.
Suddenly I knew how I would do it.
Only a few weeks earlier I had been here, surrounded by a crowd of people, with Tor as the center of attention. He had built his own bicycle, with a motorbike seat and an enormous new cogwheel at the front. He was doing wheelies, back and forth, spitting great gobbets of saliva across the tarmac. Merethe, his girlfriend, was also there. I had been hanging out with Dag Magne, and we had bumped into them and stayed. Tor cycled over to Merethe and kissed her. Then he took a watch from his inside pocket—it was on a chain—glanced at it, and said, “Shall we see how long we can make out, huh?” Merethe nodded, and then they leaned toward each other and kissed. You could see their tongues working in each other’s mouths. She had her eyes closed and her arms around him; he stood with his hands in his pockets and his eyes open. Everyone was watching them. After ten minutes he held up his watch and straightened his back. Wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. “Ten minutes,” he said.
That was how to do it. I would take off my watch and ask if we could see how long we could kiss. And then all we had to do was kiss.
I pushed off with my foot. It was important to find a suitable place. In the forest, of course, but where? Up by her place? No, I didn’t know my way around there.
But of course. In the forest, by the path up from the Fina. Under the trees there. That was perfect. No one would see us. The ground was soft. And the light was so wonderful as it fell between the treetops.
After the soccer practice I dipped my head in the bucket of water on the touchline and tried to act normal. But it wasn’t easy; the knowledge that she was up there, and not just her but also her friends, looking at me, was burned into my consciousness.
Then she came down.
“Are you going to get changed?” she said.
I nodded.
“I’ll come with you. I’ve got something to tell you afterward.”
Tell me? Was she going to finish it?
I started walking. She stretched out her hand. It brushed against mine. Was it by chance? Or could I hold it?
I looked at her.
She smiled at me.
I grabbed her hand in one swift movement.
Someone was whispering behind us. I turned. It was Lars and John. They were rolling their eyes. I smiled. She gently squeezed my hand.
The walk across the pitch had never been as long as it was this evening. Holding her hand was almost more than I could bear; the whole time I felt an urge to withdraw my hand to bring this unbearable happiness to an end.
“Hurry up, then,” she said when we got there.
“O.K.,” I said.
In the changing shed, I leaned back against the wall. My heart was pounding. Then I pulled myself together, threw on my clothes, and joined Kajsa. She looked happy. She stroked a strand of hair from her face with her small hand. Her nails were painted in a semi-transparent pink varnish.
“This Saturday I’ll be at home without my parents,” she said. “I’ve told Mom that Sunniva’s coming over. So she’s going to make a pizza and buy Coke for us. But Sunniva isn’t coming. Would you like to come?”
I swallowed.
“Sure,” I said.
Some of the other boys on the team cheered us from the changing shed.
Kajsa stood with one hand on her handlebars and the other down by her side.
“Shall we go?” I said.
“Let’s,” she said.
“Down?” I said.
She nodded, and we got on our bikes. We pedalled along the shaded gravel road, me in front, Kajsa right behind. At the crest of the long hill, I braked so that we could race down side by side. The sun lit up the ridge on the other side. The insects swarming in the air were like glitter that someone had scattered.
Yes, the path above the Fina station was the place to be.
The thought sent a wave of terror through me. It was like having climbed too high up a rock and looking down at the water, knowing that you had to conquer your fear and dive or chicken out.
Did she know what was going to happen? I sneaked a glance at her.
Oh, the ripple of her breasts.
Oh, oh, oh.
But her face was serious. What did that mean?
We jumped off our bikes and walked up the hill to the main road. We hadn’t said a word since we left Kjenna. If I said something now it had to be important, it couldn’t be some triviality.
Her trousers were cotton, a pastel-green color, and secured around the waist by a rope belt. They hung loose over her thighs but were tighter around the hips and across the bottom. She was wearing a T-shirt with a thin cardigan over it, which was white with a hint of yellow. She wore sandals but no socks. Her toenails were painted with the same polish as her fingers. She had a chain around one ankle.
She looked fantastic.
When we came to the main road and only a long hill down and a long hill up separated us from what was to happen, what I most wanted to do was cycle off and leave her. Just step on the pedals and cycle out of her life. And then why stop at that? I could cycle far away from our house. Tybakken, Tromøya, Aust-Agder, [REDACTED], Europe, I could leave everything behind me. I could become the Cycling Dutchman. Damned for ever to cycle around the world, with a ghostly light from the lamp on my handlebars illuminating the country roads.
“Where are we going, actually?” she said as we sped down the hill.
“I know somewhere nice,” I said. “It’s not far.”
She didn’t say anything. We cycled past the Fina station, and I pointed up the hill between the trees. Again she jumped off as soon as the road became steeper. A thin layer of sweat glistened on her forehead. The sun hung over the ridges to the west, a silent blaze. The air was filled with birdsong. I was close to throwing up. We entered the path. Light filtered down between the treetops, as I had imagined it, and was refracted the way it’s refracted under water. Pillars of light sloped into the ground.
I stopped.
“We can leave our bikes here,” I said.
We did. Both of us kicked out the stands and stood the bikes upright. I started walking. She followed. I looked for a suitable place to lie down. Grass or moss. Our footsteps sounded unnaturally loud. I didn’t dare look at her. But she was right behind me. There. There was a good spot.
“We can lie down here,” I said. Without looking at her I sat down. After some hesitation she sat down next to me. I put my hand in my pocket and found my watch. I took it out and held it in my open palm in front of her.
“Should we time how long we can kiss?” I said.
“What?” she said.
“I’ve got a watch,” I said. “Tor managed ten minutes. We can beat that.”
I put the watch down on the ground—it was eighteen minutes to eight, I noted—placed my hands on her shoulders and gently leaned her back while pressing my lips against hers. When we were both lying down I inserted my tongue in her mouth. It met hers, pointed and soft like a little animal’s, and I began to move my tongue around and around inside. I had my hands alongside my body; I wasn’t touching her with anything except my lips and my tongue. Our bodies lay like two small boats beached beneath the treetops. I concentrated on getting my tongue to go around as smoothly as possible while the thought of her breasts, which were so close to me, and her thighs, which were so close to me, and what was between her thighs, under her trousers, under her panties, was seared into my consciousness. But I didn’t dare touch her. She lay with her eyes closed, rotating her tongue around mine. I had my eyes open, groped for the watch, found it, and held it within reach. Three minutes so far. Some saliva ran down from the corner of her mouth. She wriggled. I pressed my groin against the ground, letting my tongue go around and around, around and around. This wasn’t as good as I had imagined, in fact it was quite strenuous. Some dry leaves crunched beneath her head as she shifted position. Our mouths were full of thick saliva. Seven minutes now. Four left. Mmm, she said, but it was not a sound of pleasure, there was something wrong, she stirred, but I didn’t let go, she moved her head while I continued to rotate my tongue. She opened her eyes, but didn’t look at me—they were staring up at the sky. Nine minutes. The root of my tongue ached. More saliva from the corners of our mouths. My braces occasionally knocked against her teeth. Actually we didn’t need to keep going for more than ten minutes and one second to beat Tor’s record. And that was now. We had beaten him now. But we could beat him by a large margin. Fifteen minutes—that ought to be possible. Five left then. But my tongue ached, it seemed to be swelling, and the saliva, which you didn’t notice much when it was hot, left you with a slight feeling of revulsion when it ran down your chin, not quite so hot. Twelve minutes. Isn’t that enough? Enough now? No, a bit more. A bit more, a bit more.
At exactly three minutes to eight I took my head away. She got up and wiped her mouth with her hand without looking at me.
“We did fifteen minutes!” I said, getting up. “We beat him by five minutes!”
Our bikes gleamed at the far end of the path. We walked toward them. She brushed leaves and twigs off her trousers and cardigan.
“Hang on,” I said. “There’s something on your back as well.
She stopped and I picked off bits and pieces that had got caught in her cardigan.
“There you go,” I said.
“I’d better go home now,” she said as we reached the bikes.
“Me, too,” I said, pointing upward. “There’s a shortcut through the forest.”
“Bye,” she said, getting on her bike and freewheeling down the bumpy path.
“Bye,” I said, grabbing the handlebars and walking up.
That night I lay fantasizing about her breasts, milky-white and large, and all the things we could have done on the forest floor, until I fell asleep. I had to call her because we hadn’t arranged when I should go to her house on Saturday, but I put off doing it all the next day and also part of Saturday until there was no avoiding it, and at two o’clock I jumped on my bike and pedalled down to the phone booth again. There was another problem as well, which was that I had to be home by half past eight, even on a Saturday, which was not at all in tune with the life I was leading now. What would she think of me?
The sky was overcast, and the matte-gray cloud cover seemed to suck the colors out of the countryside. The road was gray, the rocks in the ditch were gray, even the leaves on the trees had a weft of gray in their greenness. Also the heat of the previous days had gone. It wasn’t cold—it was maybe sixteen or seventeen degrees—but cold enough for me to button up to the neck as I cycled down. My jacket ballooned out in the air.
I stood my bike behind the green, hat-shaped fibreglass shelter at the bus stop. A stream flowed nearby, past branches and bushes and litter, mostly candy wrappers, probably from the Fina station; I could see Caramello, Hobby, Nero, Bravo, and a blue Hubba Bubba wrapper. I took the coins from my pocket, went into the booth, and placed them on top of the machine, ready. Dialled the number in the directory as various jokes went through my head. Why are there so many Hansens in the phone book? They’ve all got phones. Followed by: Why haven’t the Chinese got a phone book? Too many Wings and Wongs, and you might wing a wong number. Operator, operator, call me an ambulance. O.K., you’re an ambulance.
“Hello?” a voice said.
It was Kajsa!
“Hi,” I said. “This is Karl Ove. Is that Kajsa?”
“Yes,” she said. “Hi.”
“We forgot to talk about when I should come over,” I said. “Is there any particular time that would be suitable? It makes no difference to me.”
“Errrm,” she said. “Well, in fact, it’s all off.”
“Off,” I said. “Can’t you make it? Are your parents not going out after all?”
“What I mean to say is,” she started. “Erm . . . erm . . . I can’t . . . well, go out with you anymore.”
What?
Was she ending it?
“Hello?” she said.
“Is it over?” I said.
“Yes,” she said. “It’s over.”
I said nothing. I could hear her breathing at the other end. Tears were running down my cheeks. A long time passed.
“Well, goodbye,” she said suddenly.
“Bye,” I said.
My eyes were blinded by tears. I wiped them with the back of my hand, sniffed, got on my bike, and began to pedal homeward. I barely saw the road in front of me. Why had she done that? Why? Now that things had started to click? On the day we were going to be alone in her house? She liked me a few days ago, so why didn’t she like me now? Was it because we hadn’t talked much?
And she was so good-looking. She was so unbelievably good-looking.
Jesus Christ.
JesusfuckingChrist.
JesusfuckingshittingChrist.
When I got to B-Max, I dried my tears on the sleeves of my jacket. It was Saturday just before closing time, and the parking lot was full of cars and people with shopping bags and kids, loads of kids. But perhaps if they saw my tears they’d think they were caused by the wind? I was cycling, after all.
Completely empty, neutral spaces were developing inside me, ten seconds could pass without my thinking a single thought, without my knowing that I even existed, and then the image of Kajsa was suddenly there, it was over, and a sob shook me, impossible to stop.
I locked my bike and put it in its place outside the house. I stood still in the front hall, listening to hear where the others were—now was not the time to bump into anyone—and when it sounded as if the coast were clear I went upstairs and into the bathroom, where I washed my face carefully before going into my room and sitting down on the bed.
After a while I got up and went to Yngve’s room. He was on his bed playing the guitar and glanced up when I entered.
“What’s up? Have you been crying?” he said. “Is it Kajsa? Did she drop you?”
I nodded and started crying again.
“Now, now, Karl Ove,” he said. “It’ll soon pass. There are many girls out there waiting. The world is full of girls! Forget her. It’s no big deal.”
“Yes, it is,” I said. “We only went out for five days. And she’s so good-looking. She’s the only one I want to be with. No one else. And today of all days.”
“Hey, don’t go anywhere,” he said, getting up. “I’ll play a song for you. It might help.”
“What kind of song?” I said, sitting down.
He flicked through a pile of singles on the shelf. “This one,” he said, holding up one of the Aller Værste!’s. “No Way Back.”
“Oh, that one.”
“Listen to the lyrics,” he said, removing the single from the sleeve, placing the plastic adapter in the middle of the turntable, then the forty-five, lifting up the stylus and putting it down on the first groove, which was already whizzing round. After a second’s scratching, the energetic drums pumped into life, then came the bass, the guitar, and the Farfisa organ, followed by the jangling, unbelievably exciting guitar riff and then the voice of the singer with the Stavanger accent:
I’m not lying when I say I knew
That me and you were already through
I saw you were trying to hide it
Until the sensi thin condom split
Long-term plans and our shared visions
Blown to bits in one minute flat
You gave me a hug; I wanted to give you more
But you certainly put paid to that.
“Listen now!” Yngve said.
All things pass—all things must decay
You go to sleep; you wake up to a new day
No way back now, nuthin’ to thank you for
Nuthin’ to say, there’s your coat, there’s the door.
“Yes,” I said.
We were on the point of going banal
I heard myself speaking and got irritated
We had one too many and went sentimental
But the words were still infected
You broke my heart and gave me the clap
I still haven’t finished the penicillin rap
Why must we bang our heads against the same old wall
When we know deep down we hate it all.
“All things pass,” Yngve said when the song was over and the stylus had returned to its little rest. “All things must decay. You go to sleep; you wake up to a new day.”
“I understand what you’re saying,” I said.
“Did it help?”
“Yes, a bit. Could you play it again?” 

