
Benji
By Chinelo Okparanta
Now that his father was gone, and Benji was the only remaining male in the family, and having been bequeathed such an expansive estate, he’d do well to find himself a good woman, to marry her and take advantage of the family wealth, Mrs. Anyaogu explained to her guest. “A man must choose a wife and marry,” she said. “Even a man cannot go unmarried forever. People will begin to suspect.”
Mrs. Anyaogu was wearing a yellow-gold head scarf, tied in the shape of a flower blossom. Benji, her son, was sitting across from her at the mahogany table. Much of the furniture in the house was mahogany, Mrs. Anyaogu’s choice of wood.
Benji was not looking directly at his mother’s face but, rather, staring at a point somewhere behind her elaborately decorated head.
“Already he’s pushing forty,” his mother continued.
“Past pushing,” Benji said. “Forty-two in a couple of days.” Then suddenly he scowled, shaking his head in irritation. “Well, who am I supposed to marry, anyway?” he asked.
“I don’t see the reason for the scowl,” his mother said.
Benji carried on scowling.
What else was there to do but scowl? Alare thought. A man his age, and with all his wealth, still unmarried and no evidence of any lovers? His mother was right. It was certainly not normal, not even for a man.
Alare herself had got married fairly late—in her early thirties, to a man who was around the same age that Benji was now. Back then, she had hardly felt the gap in age between her husband and her, but these days she was feeling it more. She was only in her late fifties now—quite a few years younger than Mrs. Anyaogu. But, like Mrs. Anyaogu, and like any self-respecting woman or man, she had all the trappings of a family (though her children were grown and gone from home).
Benji had light-brown skin, the kind that under bright light had a tendency to glow a little yellow, like an onye ocha’s—a white man’s. His hair was short, cropped very close to his head. His features were lean, his cheeks even a little sunken. Alare thought of him as the kind of man who spent hours mulling over nothing, so many hours that he often forgot to eat. These wealthy sorts had a tendency to cloud their minds with large quantities of nothing. She expected he was just the same.
Alare had not married a wealthy man. In fact, the lowliness of his job was a sore subject for the marriage, which was the reason that Alare made it a point, in general, never to discuss her husband’s work in public. She had taken great pains all these years to dissociate herself where all his lowly jobs were concerned. Also, she had cautioned him never to bring up her name in his workplace. He did not argue with her about this or try to make her feel that she was being unreasonable; he, too, must have felt the embarrassment of his status. She had no reason to believe that he had ever gone against her wishes. 

She was the one who had finally gone against them. “A gardener,” she had eventually revealed to Mrs. Anyaogu, after persistent questioning. This was during their first meeting, some weeks ago.
“A gardener?” Mrs. Anyaogu had replied. “Hmm.” There was a disappointed tone in her voice, and so Alare modified things a little. “He does construction on the side, too. Just once in a while. Part time. Fixing up old houses. That sort of thing.” It was somewhat true. Her husband did sometimes patch up the old cement walls of their bungalow. Patchwork only, because they were, after all, not wealthy enough to do a full renovation.
“Ah! Construction!” Mrs. Anyaogu had exclaimed during that initial meeting, her prior disappointment fading away. This answer had seemed to please her better. Perhaps it had made Mrs. Anyaogu feel as if she were befriending someone slightly more on her level of the social ladder. Afterward, she had even insisted on referring to Alare’s husband as “the house doctor.”
Well, wealthy husband or not, Alare was a God-fearing woman, and that, she reasoned, should have been enough to justify their new friendship. In fact, so God-fearing was she that when her precious congregation had disintegrated, owing to a scandal involving the pastor—a congregation that she had attended almost as long as she had been married to her husband—she did not lose her faith, did not give up attending church services altogether. Not all pastors were quacks, she knew. But it had indeed been a shock to her—to the entire congregation—that, all these years, the soft-spoken pastor had been pocketing the money that was supposed to go toward renovating the church. But then suddenly a part of the roof had caved in, and the rain poured in, drenching them all. Everything came out then, of course, and the pastor had no choice but to flee.
After he left, the church crumbled, its walls and pews ruined by the rain. Little by little, the parishioners began to disappear. She would have stuck it out, but a congregation was not made of one person alone. Eventually, she had no choice but to disappear as well.
Now she had found this Deeper Life congregation, and had been lucky enough to befriend Mrs. Anyaogu there. This was the reason for their lunch today. They had come out of church, and Mrs. Anyaogu had insisted on treating Alare to lunch. Such a long time since she’d had company over to the house, she’d said. Wouldn’t it be nice? They could get to know each other, perhaps form a friendship even outside of church.
The parlor where they sat was spacious, and everything looked as if it had been taken from the pages of some American home-decorating catalogue. Or, not long before, Alare had visited the home of one of her former fellow-parishioners, and there she had watched a show on a channel called Home and Garden Television. The furniture and all the decorative elements in Mrs. Anyaogu’s home—the long, flowing, deep-purple drapes, the brass-trimmed lamps and shades, the leather sofas—could have been taken straight from that show as well. But there was something tacky, too, about the place: here and there were splashes of gold, the bright-yellow kind of plating that was more a distraction than a sign of good taste.
The food was delicious: okra soup with fufu. Mrs. Anyaogu and Benji ate with forks, so Alare did, too, though she would have preferred to use her hands.
Mrs. Anyaogu talked the whole time. This must have been what she always did, Alare decided, because Benji had a look of resignation on his face. He could have said something about it, something that would embarrass his mother, but he didn’t. A very polite young man, Alare concluded. Maybe even polite to a fault.
Unexpectedly, Benji asked her what she thought about President Umaru Yar’Adua. Alare replied that her husband was a fan of the President. Her husband was always a fan of the aristos, even if he was not a fan of the Hausa-Fulani, of which Yar’Adua was a member. Her husband was Igbo, and not a fan of the Yoruba, either. Alare was Yoruba, but he had married her all the same, because, even beyond the exception that he made for aristocrats, his loyalties had a tendency to vacillate inexplicably.
“Mama thinks Yar’Adua is a terrible President,” Benji said.
“Well, he is,” Mrs. Anyaogu said with conviction. “For one thing, he’s too sick to run any country, let alone this country.”
Shortly after, when they were long done with the meal, the house girls came to clear the table. Mrs. Anyaogu excused herself. She had some instructions to give the house girls about the coming week’s meals. Would Benji please entertain the guest while she attended to her duties as “Madam” of the house?
Outside, the sun was shining. Benji led Alare to the back yard. This was the first time she had seen him standing: he had already been seated at the table when she arrived for lunch. Now she marvelled at the smallness of him. He was not exactly an akanshi—a dwarf—but for all intents and purposes he was.
They arrived at the garden, which looked to Alare like a scaled-down version of the gardens at Versailles. (She had seen a picture of Versailles on a postcard a long time ago.) The hedges were so well manicured that they had almost no resemblance to nature. And the red hibiscus flowers and pink roses grew so perfectly that they could have been made of plastic.
Alare caught a glimpse of a man in khaki shorts and a singlet.
“Godwin,” Benji said. “Godwin Onuoha, the groundskeeper.” Godwin was in charge of trimming the hedges, cutting the grass, and keeping an eye on the property, Benji explained.
He told Alare that Godwin was perhaps the most loyal house help his mother had ever had. Nearly fifteen years with the family, and each year he appeared more hardworking than the one before.
Alare glanced around. He must be very hardworking, she thought. What a beautiful yard. But it was not the beauty of the yard that held her attention.
Benji led her toward a set of wicker chairs. “We can enjoy the sun from here. This is a good spot for that. Maybe we can even take an afternoon siesta.”
He pointed her to one of the chairs. She sat, but all the while she was thinking about his stature. Godwin was at least one and a half times the height of Benji. What a shame that Benji had to deal daily with a man who was a constant reminder of his inadequacies, she thought. Benji’s size, in combination with his light-yellow complexion, was probably why he was still single. Most women did not want a light-skinned man—most women she knew believed there was something effeminate about a man’s being so pale.
Benji sat on the chair next to her. “I’m going to [REDACTED] next week,” he said. “Ever been to [REDACTED]?”
“No,” she said.
“You should go. It’s a very nice place. Good for relaxation.”
She wondered exactly why he needed to relax. It didn’t appear that he held a job. From the look of things, he lived on family money, the earnings of his father and his father’s father. The little that Mrs. Anyaogu had told Alare implied that her husband, and his father, and his father’s father, had been colossal landowners, and, since they had invested wisely, she and her son could reap the reward.
Anyway, if indeed he needed to relax, why did he have to go all the way to [REDACTED] todo it? Why couldn’t he relax right here, in this beautiful garden, which would require no additional money—no airplane tickets, no hotel or dining costs. But she didn’t say any of this. Instead, she said, “I have a husband to attend to. Besides, how could I ever afford to go to [REDACTED]?”
Benji let out a brief embarrassed laugh and apologized for his lack of consideration. He hadn’t meant to dangle it in her face like that, he said.
But it would be nice to go to [REDACTED], she thought. And she reasoned, too, that, even with his size and skin, some gold-digging young woman would eventually agree to marry him. A woman might be repulsed by him at first, but he seemed like a genuinely good person, very kind. Almost foolish in his kindness. Or was it allfoolishness, and nothing to do with kindness? Well, no matter. There was the money. There was nothing repulsive about marrying into money.
“You know, Mama is right,” he said, as if he’d heard fragments of Alare’s thoughts. “I should be married and with a family by now.”
Alare remained silent.
“But of course I’m not,” he continued. He paused thoughtfully, then said, “You know, she blames herself for how I turned out. Maybe there was something wrong with her womb. Maybe she didn’t feed me well. Maybe this. Maybe that. Once, at a restaurant, she overheard someone say something about my size and she began screaming, crying, pulling out her hair. She wound up on the floor, in a corner of the restaurant, her hair sticking up at odd angles from her head, her clothes dishevelled. She looked like a crazy old madwoman. All that guilt.”
He sent Alare a postcard from [REDACTED], directly to her home. Had he got her address from his mother? Most likely so.
The picture on the postcard was just an image of what appeared to be an expanse of red sand, with two or three greenish twigs sticking out from it. Then he sent her a second postcard, of a bright sun. On the back, he wrote, “Plenty of sunshine, and too much solitude.” As luck would have it, Alare would tell Benji afterward, she had gone to the mailbox before her husband did.
One Sunday, a couple of weeks later, after service let out, Alare approached Mrs. Anyaogu and invited herself to lunch. She was swift with the self-invitation, so adept that Mrs. Anyaogu must have thought that she was the one who had done the inviting. Alare was sure that Benji would be back from [REDACTED] by then.
They had lunch again, then walked out into the gardens, sat on the wicker chairs, soaked in the sun once more. He announced that he might go on a trip to Asia next—[REDACTED] or Bali. Or maybe even [REDACTED].
Mrs. Anyaogu suffered a heart attack. The pastor at Deeper Life made the announcement. After service, Alare found out that Benji was the one who had notified the pastor. He had rushed his mother to the hospital. She was now at home but would require lots of nursing. He would nurse her, and the family physician would come every few days. As such, Benji could no longer go on his trip to Asia.
Alare made herself useful. She stopped by on the days when the physician was not making his house call. Despite Mrs. Anyaogu’s condition, Godwin saw to it that the compound still looked as good as ever. The house girls needed a bit more of a push, though. Alare saw to this—she gave them orders about what groceries to buy, what meals to prepare. Orders about which windows needed cleaning, which tables needed dusting. It came naturally to her, this role as their substitute Madam. In addition, she tended to other things, like helping Benji to administer Mrs. Anyaogu’s sponge bath and to give her her medications.
She found that Benji’s small size somehow pleased her in bed. He was so unlike her husband that she could completely toss aside her husband’s image, and, with it, the guilt that should have accompanied her actions.
Benji was essentially a virgin, though he said that he had gone down on a girl a long time ago, when he was at boarding school. The girl was several years his junior, and of small stature as well, so his size had not exactly been an issue. She had been an acquaintance, not quite a friend. That night, a group of her female friends had arranged to go out on dates with some boys, but she had not managed to find herself a boy. She was roaming aimlessly around the school compound when she ran into Benji, who was roaming aimlessly, too. He was always roaming aimlessly in those days. She dragged him into a corner where bushes grew, and began unbuttoning her blouse. There was something pitiful about her—such desperation. He felt sorry for her, not enough to go all the way, but enough so that when she took off her skirt and panties he conceded to getting down on his knees, conceded to pleasing her that way.
“Do you feel sorry for me now? Is that the reason for what we are doing?” Alare asked.
“No,” Benji said. “Not sorry at all.”
“Good.”
He produced a condom from his nightstand, and she wondered how long the box had been sitting there. Was it any good? Well, no matter.
Later, she explained to him that this was not a habit of hers, that she did not go around cheating on her husband all the time. She realized that it was not Christian of her, but she was sure that God would forgive. God was always forgiving, she said. Look at the way he forgave the Israelites, the way he forgave Moses, the way he gave his only begotten son so that we might all be saved. God was always forgiving. She was sure that he would forgive her, too.
Benji nodded. Perhaps Alare was right. And, if she was, then perhaps this could be looked upon as one of the upsides of Christianity. Not that he cared very much for the religion, upsides or downsides. It was just not his thing. In fact, he could count on one hand the number of times that he, as a grown man, had attended church services with his mother.
It was an easy affair. Alare continued to come by whenever she pleased, which was every day. She told Benji that she simply gave her husband a half-truth: that she was helping take care of a sick friend. Her husband did not question. Probably nobody who knew of Benji’s diminutive stature would have questioned, she thought.
Eventually, things changed. Her husband began having terrible bursts of pain in his head. And occasionally he had spasms in his limbs as well. He was looking thinner and thinner with every passing day.
Alare told Benji that she had not informed him about her husband’s illness at first because she was waiting to see if it would go away. But now she was afraid that he would no longer be able to walk, much less tend to his work.
He had to see a doctor, Benji said.
She agreed, but where would they find the money? Not everybody had the wealth that Benji’s family did, Alare told him.
“I guess letting him go is not an option?” Benji asked.
Alare had a horrified look on her face. “Letting him go?” she repeated.
“It’s a joke,” he said. He spoke apologetically. “He is a little in the way of things, but I would never sit aside and allow another man to die.”
“Of course not,” she said. “What God-fearing person would?”
It was evening now, and they sat dully in the parlor, facing the open windows, watching darkness envelop the sky.
“How much do you think it’ll cost?” Benji asked.
“Not sure yet, but maybe a few thousand nairas to begin.”
“That’s not a lot,” he said.
“No,” she said. “It’s possible we can even manage those beginning bills on our own,” she added thoughtfully.
She looked seriously at Benji now, as if she’d suddenly had a revelation. She told him that she was not notifying him of her husband’s illness in order to beg him for money. She was not implying that he needed to help with the medical bills, and she was sorry if it had come out that way. What she was saying, rather, was that perhaps this was a sign.
“A sign of what?” he asked.
“You know,” she said. “A sign that I need to stop fooling around and stay home with my husband. Maybe it’s a sign that enough is enough.”
“Maybe,” he said. “And that’s your decision to make.”
They didn’t speak for some time.
“But I really don’t mind helping with the bills,” he said.
“No,” she said. “Really, I couldn’t ask that of you.”
He was silent.
She got up, straightened out her skirt, grabbed her handbag, and made to leave. “I probably won’t be back for a while—I’ll be running him around to his medical appointments, attending to him in general. I’m sorry,” she said.
“Don’t be sorry,” he said, standing up, too. He reached into the back pocket of his trousers for his wallet. He took out a wad of thousand-naira notes and stretched out his hand to her.
She was beside herself with shock. So much of it, right in front of her face. How could she turn it down now?
She accepted.
He would have Godwin bring her some more later, in an envelope, he told her. Just enough to cover what she estimated the bills would be. But she should try to put this whole thing out of her mind. She should not let it interfere with their relationship. As soon as her husband had healed, he wanted them to carry on as before.
She nodded. “Of course,” she said. She could not wait for things to return to normal. Maybe soon. Maybe in a matter of two weeks, even. 
“Good,” he said. “Very good. I’m glad we are of the same mind.”
She nodded again, and bent down to give him a small peck on the cheek before turning to leave.
It took more than two weeks for her to return. Close to a month. By then, he was sad to report that his mother had passed. Alare’s husband, on the other hand, she said, was making tiny bits of progress, one day at a time.
“Very good,” Benji said, and he assured her that he would continue to send Godwin over. Would it work to send a few thousand nairas every two weeks? Would that be enough?
“Beggars can’t be choosers,” she said. She added that it was very kind of him to do that. And, as a matter of fact, it was good that he sent Godwin along with the money. She would feel rather strange if he were handing the money directly to her.
“Strange?” he asked.
“You know,” she said. “You know . . . Like those sorts of women.”
“Ahh,” he said. He shook his head. “Don’t think of it that way.”
“No, I suppose I won’t,” she said. “Anyway, my point is that it’s a good thing that we have the option of Godwin.”
After his mother died, and while Alare was gone, Benji had taken on the project of opening a small convenience store in an abandoned shack nearby. The shack was an eyesore; all the houses around it were mansions. How could the owners of the mansions allow such a thing to exist in the same neighborhood as their designer homes?
Well, he paid a decent sum to its owner and bought the shack. He hired a small construction crew, which renovated the shack in a matter of days—knocked down its walls, put up new ones. A shiny new roof, tiled floors, custom shelves. He then stocked the shelves with a good variety of items: Coca-Cola, chewing gum, Nabisco wafers, Ribena juice, bread.
The store was now open. Benji himself was in charge of everything, from stocking the shelves to accounts management. Finally, he said, he could put his business education to use.
Managing the store filled his days, especially as there were periods of time, which usually lasted about two weeks, when Alare could not keep him company, because she was once again attending to her husband and to his medical appointments.
Of course, there were also periods of time when she visited him. Now that Benji’s mother was dead, they decided to tell Alare’s husband that she had found work as a cashier at a convenience store. That this was how she was getting the money to help with his hospital bills.
It was true, in a sense. More and more she was with Benji at the convenience store, rather than at his family home. They stood behind the counter together, taking turns ringing up customers.
But it was not all work. He had made sure to build a small addition to the shack, a secluded space at the back, which he furnished with a nice sofa bed, a coffee table, a small refrigerator stocked with soft drinks and mineral water and wine, and a dining table and chairs. During their afternoon breaks, he locked up the store and they headed to this small living space. Sometimes they reopened the store. Other times, they called it a day.
It was early in the harmattan season that she made the announcement to Benji: her husband’s illness had taken a turn for the worse, and his doctors were telling him to go abroad for treatment. [REDACTED] was a good place to go, one doctor had said, or anywhere in Europe. But they should at least try [REDACTED]. There was definitely access to better medical technology there than in [REDACTED].
She and Benji were standing behind the counter in the shop. She had just arrived, and had immediately broken the news.
Was she actually considering it? Benji asked.
She remained silent at first, but eventually she responded that she did not see how she had any other option. That is, if Benji was still willing to supply her with money she might as well do the best she could to keep the man alive. She would like the same to be done for her, if she were ever in her husband’s shoes.
Benji nodded. He imagined that he might like the same for himself. “Well, how much more money this time?”
“I think if you doubled it that should be enough,” she said.
“But wouldn’t that depend on where?”
“I’m thinking [REDACTED] is probably the best option,” she said. “I know [REDACTED] has some of the best doctors.”
“O.K., so [REDACTED] it is,” he said.
“You’re sure you don’t mind?” she asked.
“It’s not much money in the grand scheme of things,” he said. “Even doubled.”
“Thanks,” she said.
He thought for a bit. Finally he asked, “And what of airfare and lodging?”
This time it was she who was pensive. “That’s true,” she said. “I hadn’t thought of those.”
And so it was settled.
Again, she was gone for a month. He felt her absence more this time. But he did his best to busy himself with the store.
The day she returned, he was sitting in the garden, contemplating his situation in a general and cloudy sort of way, when he looked up to find her approaching. It was Godwin who led her in, in his ribbed singlet and khakis, looking irritated. And of course Godwin would be irritated. He had been in the middle of mowing the front yard, Benji knew, and surely it must have been irksome to be disturbed. Well, annoyed or not, he escorted her all the same, and then he immediately returned to his work.
There was a liveliness about her face, as if [REDACTED] had exceeded all her expectations. Benji had been to [REDACTED] himself, and the thought of being there was not one that enlivened him. There was, for one thing, the persistent rain and fog, and the general gloominess of the place. But he could see how all of that might have a certain appeal. Or perhaps the liveliness he saw was merely a sign of her being happy to have returned.
She took her usual seat, on the wicker chair by his side.
“So?” he asked.
“We have to wait and see,” she said. “He’s not out of danger yet.”
“Of course,” he said. “Healing always takes time.”
She reached into her handbag and produced a small gift—a tiny glass replica of Big Ben. He grunted, but then quickly recovered and accepted.
“How illness messes with things,” she said.
“It certainly does,” he said.
They continued to sleep together. Every once in a while, in the heat of her passion, Alare would remember that she had forgotten to refill one or more of her husband’s medicines. When she realized this, she’d disentangle herself immediately and scramble to get dressed. But this rarely happened, and so, when it did, Benji was usually willing to be forgiving. Anyway, what choice did he have? There were times, though, that she caught him sulking, and then she’d pause in the middle of getting dressed, and go back and lie next to him. She’d prop her head in her hands, her elbows resting on the bed, and gaze into Benji’s eyes. Her eyes would fill with tears as she told him what a wonderful man he was, how lucky she was to have him in her life. The tears would trickle down. He’d wipe them away with his hands.
The stents that had been put into her husband’s heart were now somehow malfunctioning. This was less than a year after the [REDACTED] trip. The doctors were recommending [REDACTED] this time, so Alare asked if Benji would mind once more doubling the money. He was under no obligation to do so, of course. It was just that her husband’s birthday was coming up this month, and wouldn’t it be terrible to allow him to die in the very month of his birth?
Of course, Benji agreed to finance the trip.
Godwin was on vacation, but Benji would find a way to get her the money, maybe send one of the house girls along with it.
“All right,” Alare said. “I suppose that works fine, too.”
If Alare had been there that month, Benji might not have grown sick of the convenience shop. He might not have abandoned it. But there was also the issue of the banana and groundnut hawkers, who had taken to parading the roads near the shop. There were also some bread hawkers, and it appeared to Benji that they would only continue to multiply, and so what need was there of a convenience store? The hawkers sold the items much cheaper, anyway. Who didn’t prefer cheaper?
Just as quickly as he had built the store, he abandoned it.
He decided to take up art instead. He bought himself some tubes of paint and paintbrushes, watercolor kits, sketching pads, canvases. He would become a painter, just sit there in the garden and paint whatever image happened to enter his mind. A tray of fruit, perhaps. Some trees. A daffodil.
But mostly he painted images of Alare. Alare’s face when she smiled at him. Alare’s hands. Alare’s eyes. Her lips.
She returned to find him painting.
“What’s this? You think you have become the next Picasso?” she asked.
“Exactly right,” he said, with a broad smile.
But then it appeared to him that she was disheartened by this new undertaking. It seemed she would much rather have had him working at the convenience shop. Something about her demeanor said that she felt that painting was a waste of time and energy. He could understand, if that was indeed how she felt. Painting was not like selling goods in a store. With painting, there was no real potential for income.
Well.
She gave him the latest update. Her husband was doing much better. Much, much better. There would probably be no need for any more hospital admissions. Not for a long time, anyway. Just maintenance checkups for now, and so Benji could go back to giving the original amount. No doubling necessary anymore. Thank heavens, she said.
He observed her face. She seemed to be doing well, too—she had even put on some weight, he noticed. In fact, when he thought about it, she had been putting on weight all these years, not shedding kilos like a person under the stress of dealing with a sick husband.
Out of the blue one day—it was January; the udara trees were blooming orange and green—Godwin came pounding on the front door of the house. He was wearing not his usual singlet but a short-sleeved cotton shirt, well ironed, tucked neatly into trousers. A leather belt peeked out from his waist area. Benji had never seen him look so proper, so neat, so unlike the groundskeeper he knew.
That morning Godwin had not shown up for work. In all the years that he had worked under Mrs. Anyaogu’s surveillance, this had happened only a handful of times, outside of vacations, and each incident had been for a very good reason. Eventually, Godwin would call to say that he was sick. Benji remembered that once it had been malaria. It had been a few weeks before Godwin returned to work.
Well, here he was, not having reported to work in the morning, and no phone call, but looking very healthy, and perfectly dressed.
The sun was shining brightly behind Godwin’s head, so Benji had to squint to see the groundskeeper’s face clearly.
“Sah, very sorry, sah,” Godwin began in pidgin English. “Very sorry, sah.”
“Very sorry about what?” Benji asked.
Godwin explained that he was resigning, that he had found a job closer to home, not as well-paying as the one he was leaving behind, and with inconsistent hours, but it would suit him just fine. He was sorry to have to go this way, but it was better for everyone concerned, he said. Anyway, his youngest child had graduated from the university, and so he was done with school fees. What need was there to continue working so hard? He could finally rest. Spend more time with his wife. That sort of thing.
Benji was astounded. By now, Alare seldom came to see him. When she did she came in the mornings, and stayed only a few hours. Of course, there were exceptions—days when she stayed almost the entire day. But these were rare. And now here was Godwin, preparing to leave, too. The house was growing lonelier. There were the house girls, yes, but they kept to themselves. He mostly saw them only when they served his meals. How long before they, too, decided to leave?
He told Alare of Godwin’s resignation.
“Oh, no!” she exclaimed. “He was such a good worker! It really is a shame!”
Benji nodded. He remembered the money now. There was no longer Godwin to deliver it. Perhaps Benji could just give it directly to her, the way he had done that very first time, instead of sending anyone at all. What did she think?
She nodded. “I guess that’s fine,” she said. In the absence of any other alternative, O.K., she would take the money directly from him. Besides, at this point she was sure they could both agree that she was not at all like those sorts of women.
He nodded. “Of course not,” he said. “Don’t even think of it in those terms.”
He had been in search of a set of very large paintbrushes, because he would be embarking on work on a large canvas. That was how the idea to drop by came to him, because at one moment he looked around and realized that his search for the paintbrushes had led him to her neighborhood.
He could swing by, he thought. Just pop in to say a quick hello. What difference did it make if her husband was there with her? None, he decided, because her husband had, after all, never suspected him of anything.
He cut across several roads, and walked down the path leading to her gate. It was a red metal gate, hanging just a little open. He entered. Inside, a driveway with a very shiny black Mercedes. Beside the Mercedes, a glistening silver Volvo.
He had never thought to stop by and visit. And he had certainly never imagined, with all her talk of not being wealthy, that her home would look like this. Some people were always complaining of not having enough money, but perhaps it was those who complained the most that had the most. Or perhaps it was those who had the least that put on the best show of having the most. Which one was she?
Well, the home was a detached unit, not far from the neighbors on both sides, but far enough, and different enough that it stuck out from the other houses. Clearly, work had been done to improve it. It might have been run-down before, like the neighboring houses, with chipping concrete walls and old, peeling paint, tired-looking trees, cracked windows, and gravelly, unpaved driveways. But it had been renovated to high standards: double-glazed windows and doors, rich mahogany shutters, a double driveway paved in granite, with a beautiful terra-cotta veranda marking the house’s entrance, surrounded by lush bushes of yellow and red flowers.
He felt suddenly like an unwelcome guest, like a thief. He should have turned around and left, but there was something pushing him forward, and so he walked cautiously toward the front door. Music was coming from inside. Something soft and classic. Not quite Sunny Ade and not quite Fela.
He stood beside a window now, peering into it at an angle, careful to keep his body hidden behind the concrete portions of the wall. He saw the silhouettes then. A man and a woman, their arms wrapped loosely around each other. They were slow-dancing to the music, swaying gently back and forth. They were laughing and kissing playfully. He recognized her, of course, but what startled him was that he recognized him, too. How could he possibly begin to make sense of the fact that Godwin Onuoha was the man standing in Alare’s home, the man dancing with her, laughing with her, kissing her?
He went home. The sun was not yet setting when he started, but it was almost down by the time he arrived. He walked around to the gardens in the back yard, to the wicker chairs, and took a seat.
Impossible, he thought.
But it was possible. It was not too long ago that he gave Alare the last payment for her husband’s medical bills. And so the question was, where was her husband now? Had he died, after all? And, if so, when? And how could she not have mentioned something as big as her husband’s death? Anyway, he would have caught wind of it in the newspapers or just from random chatter. People around [REDACTED] were always talking about such things: deaths, births, weddings.
His legs were stretched out in front of him, his arms folded tightly on his chest. He reasoned some more: At what point had his money stopped going toward Alare’s husband’s medical bills? Had the money ever gone to those bills?
He would tell her that he knew, that he had caught her at her own game. Perhaps he would wait until she stopped by again to tell her plainly that he knew the money was not really going for her husband’s checkups. Fixing up their home, buying those fancy cars! And those trips to [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]! Who knew what else? Ha! What a fool he had been!
But what was Godwin’s role in all of this? At what point had Alare stolen the groundskeeper? Perhaps right away. Perhaps as swiftly as she had begun stealing his money. What else had she stolen that he had been too blockheaded to see?
One question kept returning to him: Just where was her husband now?
But, then, did it really matter where he was?
It was morning now, and he had spent the night seated on the wicker chair, soaking in the dew. Suddenly, he knew the answer. It settled upon him like condensation. Godwin was her husband. It was, in a sense, a far-fetched explanation, but why not? Why not? They must have been planning it all along, all these years. Some people would do anything in the name of money. No other way to explain it. How long would they have continued the ruse?
He rose angrily from the wicker chair. The sun was shining brightly now, that early-morning burst of light. But he felt a darkness all around him—the sun appeared to glow in heavy streaks of black. No need to wait for her to come by before revealing his discovery. He would walk right back to her house—their house—and spew all the blackness on them. He would head over there and announce that he had caught both of them red-handed.
He had made it only as far as his gate when the thought occurred to him: Was that what he really wanted? What did he really want? What was at stake for him? What did he stand to lose?
He thought of his mother. What had been her greatest hope for him while she was alive? What had she fervently wanted for him? She probably still wanted it for him, even from the grave: a wife. Well, he had not found a wife for himself. But Alare was certainly the next best thing, and so she was at stake for him. She was to him what money was to her.
He had pushed open the gate, and was about to step out, but now he turned and pulled it shut. The house girls would be preparing breakfast already, filling the place with the sounds of metal clanging and the scents of buttered toast and fried eggs. He would walk around to the front door. He would take a seat at the mahogany table. The house girls would place his breakfast before him, and he would eat it zestfully, the same way he always ate it, the way he would have eaten it if today were just another ordinary day. 

