The Paper Revolution
By Dinaw Mengestu
When Isaac and I first met, at the university, we both pretended that the campus and the streets of the capital were as familiar to us as the dirt paths of the rural villages where we had grown up and lived until only a few months earlier. The capital in those days was booming with people, money, new cars, and even newer buildings, most of which had been thrown up quickly after independence, in a rush fuelled by the ecstatic promises of a socialist, Pan-African future that, almost ten years later, was still supposedly just around the corner.
On the bus ride to the capital, I gave up all the names my parents had given me. I was almost twenty-five but, by other measures, much younger. I shed those names just as the bus crossed into [REDACTED]. I was nearing Lake Victoria; I knew Kampala was somewhere close, but even then I had committed myself to thinking of it as “the capital.” The name Kampala was too small for what I imagined. That city belonged to [REDACTED], but the capital had no such allegiances. Like me, it belonged to no one, and anyone could claim it.
I spent my first few weeks trying to imitate the gangs of boys who lingered around the university and outside the cafés and bars that bordered it. Though we couldn’t afford to take classes, we all wanted to be revolutionaries. On campus, and even in the poor quarters where Isaac and I lived, there were dozens of Lumumbas, Marleys, Malcolms, Césaires, Kenyattas, Senghors, and Selassies, boys who woke up every morning and donned the black hats and olive-green costumes of their heroes. I bought a used pair of green pants, which I wore daily, even after the knees had split open, and I let the few strands of hair on my chin grow long. I tried to think of myself as a revolutionary in the making, even though I had come to the capital with other ambitions. A decade or so earlier, there had been an important gathering of African writers and scholars at the university. I had read about it in a week-old newspaper that finally made its way to my village. That conference gave shape to my adolescent ambitions, which until then had consisted solely of leaving.
I arrived in the capital poorly prepared. I had read the same few Victorian novels countless times, and I assumed that that was how English was still spoken. Until I met Isaac, I didn’t make a single friend. With my long skinny legs and narrow face, he said, I looked more like a professor than like a fighter, and in the beginning that was what he called me: Professor, or the Professor.
“And what about you?” I asked him. I assumed that, like others, he had another, more public name that he wanted to be known by. He was shorter but wider than I was, his arms tightly laced with muscles and veins that ran like scars the length of his forearms. He had the build but not the face or demeanor of a soldier. He smiled and laughed too often for me to imagine he could ever hurt someone.
“For now, Isaac is it,” he said.
His family was from the north of [REDACTED], from one of the tall, darker tribes that a man in [REDACTED] had decided were more warrior-like than their smaller cousins to the south. His parents had died in the last round of fighting just before independence. Had the British stayed, Isaac would have done well. He had been bright enough as a child to be talked of as one of the students who could be sent abroad for schooling. But then the whole colonial experiment ended in what seemed like a long bloody afternoon, and boys like Isaac were orphaned a second time.
We had both taken up residence in the eastern quarter of the city, in a hard-to-reach, hilly area prone to mud slides. Isaac was living with friends of cousins, who had agreed to let him sleep on the floor of their living room. I was renting a cot in the back of a drygoods store that on the weekends became a bar for the owner and his friends. On Friday and Saturday nights, I wasn’t allowed to come home until 2 or 3 a.m., after the bed had been used by the patrons to entertain themselves with some of the young girls in the neighborhood. With no money and nothing to do, I would circle the neighborhood, a maze of rutted, narrow paths that wound slowly up the side of a hill, at the top of which was one of the city’s newly paved roads. From here, one could look down upon our shanty village as it descended into what had once been a lush valley. I saw Isaac up there twice before we ever spoke to each other. On both occasions he was standing by the side of the road, staring at the passing traffic instead of at the city beneath him. A few days later, I saw him on campus. We were both standing near but not too close to a group of students, trying our best to belong. It was the second week of August, the start of a new semester, and there were students crowded on the central lawn, which was ringed by towering palm trees that gave the campus an air of tropical grandeur far greater than it deserved.
It was with the understanding that we were both liars and frauds, poorly equipped to play the roles we had chosen, that Isaac approached me. We were in a crowd that gathered around a table where a boy with a neatly sculpted Afro was reading off a list of demands. Had Isaac and I not been there at the same time, we might have been moved by the young man’s call for better teachers, lower fees, and more freedom for the students, but all either of us could see from the moment our eyes locked was the other’s vaguely familiar, possibly hostile face staring back.

Isaac waited for the speech to end. The final words were “This is our university,” followed by brief applause. Everything back then was supposed to be ours. The city, the country, Africa— they were there for the taking, and, at least in that regard, our approach to the future was no different from that of the Englishmen who preceded us. Many of the boys who were a part of that crowd would later prove the point, as they stuffed themselves with their country’s wealth.
Isaac stood next to me for a few seconds before he said, “We should go somewhere and talk.”
We walked until we were in a neighborhood I had never visited before. Isaac talked the entire time. He had his own version of history—half fact, half myth—which he was eager to share. He began each of his stories with “Did you know?” which was his equivalent of “Once upon a time.”
“Did you know,” he said, “until a decade ago no Africans were allowed to live near the university? This is where the British were planning on building a new palace for the king. If they had lost World War Two, they were going to move all the English people here, and this part of the city was going to be just for them. They were going to make everything look like [REDACTED] so they wouldn’t feel so bad about losing. They were going to build a big wall around it and then change all the maps so that it looked like [REDACTED] was in Africa. But every time they started building the wall someone would blow it up. That’s how the war for independence started.”
We stopped at a café on a street lined with single-story, tin-roofed stores selling jeans, T-shirts, and brightly patterned ankle-length dresses. We took a table outside. Isaac ordered tea for us. When it came, slightly cooler than he wanted, he sent it back and demanded another. He wanted me to be impressed by his ability to command: in this case, a warmer cup of hot water. Then he crossed his legs, leaned back in his chair, and said, “So—you go to the university, too.”
“Yes,” I said.
“Every day?”
“Every day.”
Isaac’s face softened.
“My grandfather wanted me to study medicine,” he continued. “But I have plans of my own.”
“Then what will you study?”
“This is Africa,” he said. “There’s only one thing to study.” He waited for me to respond. After several dramatic seconds, he sighed and said, “Politics. That’s all we have here.”
I hadn’t learned to speak with such authority. When Isaac asked me what I planned to study, I had to gather my courage before I could reply. “Literature,” I told him.
He slapped the table with his hand. “That’s perfect,” he said. “You look like a professor. What kind of literature will you study?”
“All of it,” I said, and here, for once, I spoke with a bit of confidence, because I believed in what I had said. Many of the writers who attended that conference had already begun to make themselves scarce by the time Isaac and I had that conversation: several were in exile in [REDACTED]; others were rumored to be dead or working for a corrupt government. But I dreamed of joining their ranks nonetheless.


Every aspiring militant, radical, and revolutionary in Eastern and Central Africa was drawn to the university. People started coming shortly after the President took power and declared the country the first African socialist republic: “A beacon of freedom and equality where all men are brothers” was how he phrased it in the radio address he gave after staging the country’s first coup. Millions believed him. He spoke the right language—grand, pompous, and humble all at the same time. He was from the military, but he claimed he wasn’t an Army man, just a poor farmer who had picked up the gun to liberate his people, first from the British and then, after independence, from the corrupt bureaucrats who followed. It was rumored that he had a photographic memory and was a champion chess player, and that every weekend he returned to his farm to tend to his cattle and his crops. Whatever people wanted in a leader and whatever they dreamed of for themselves, they found in him.
For years, the students held on to their socialist, Pan-African dream, while ignoring the corruption and violence that touched the rest of the capital. Now the dream was all but over. There were warring parties and factions split along thin ideological lines. One of the first things Isaac and I did together was to look at the students spread across the lawn in a state of constant protest and divide them into two camps: the real revolutionaries and the campus frauds.
As we walked across the lawn, Isaac pointed to the various student groups and asked what I thought of this person or that. “Is that a real revolutionary?”
More than half the time, he claimed I was wrong. After a dozen attempts, I asked him what made him so certain he was always right.
“You know how you can tell?” he said.
He took off one of his shoes and wiggled his dirty toes in the air. He held the shoe, which like my own was covered in dust and had been repaired so many times that there was hardly anything left of the sole.
“Look at the shoes. Anyone who walks to campus has shoes as ruined as ours.”
The next day, we lay on the grass and pointed out all the polished shoes that passed us. I no longer saw the students as a general, uniform mass. They were part of the same body but lived in different spheres. The day after, I told Isaac, “I don’t have to see the shoes. I can tell by the way they stand.” I pointed to a pack of boys on the other side of the campus and said, “Chauffeured car,” and according to him I was always right. Privilege lifted the head, focussed the eyes—facts that were already evident to Isaac.
Eventually Isaac decided it was time to meet some of the boys we spent our afternoons watching. “We should introduce ourselves,” he said. As he drew close to a group of three handsomely dressed boys standing almost within earshot of us, I turned away, both embarrassed and afraid of what would happen next. When I looked up, he was already on his way back to me.
“What did you say to them?” I asked him.
“Nothing,” he said.
“Then why are they staring at you?”
“Maybe they didn’t understand my question?”
“Which was?”
“I asked them if they had enough room in their fathers’ cars for all of us.”
That was the start of Isaac’s revolution, although neither of us knew it at the time. He posed variations of the same question to selected groups of boys for a week. He called it his “interrogation.” He would say to me, “I’m going to interrogate those boys over there.” Or, “Who should I interrogate today?” and before I could respond he was off.
The interrogations ended once enough students knew what to expect when they saw Isaac coming for them.
“I’ve learned something important,” he said, after he declared an end to his questioning. “All the rich boys are named Alex. If they tell you something different, don’t believe them.”
That afternoon, he began to wave at the most obviously affluent students while calling out, “Hello, Alex. Very nice to see you again.” Or, “Alex, where have you been? Say hello to your friend Alex for me.”
The only real students we admired were the ones who, like us, failed to hide the not so subtle marks of poverty. I admired them because they had a place in the university, Isaac for other reasons. When I wasn’t with him, I made a careful study of how they held their heads, if they looked down before speaking, and, most important, how they spoke.
The star of the campus for Isaac—and for many others, too—was virtually invisible. He was said to be tall, young, handsome, and well read and, unlike the rich boys in blue shirts and khakis, to wear only olive-green pants and shirts. Isaac claimed to have seen him from afar as he was leaving the campus. He said he was either Congolese or Rwandan. “He’s tall and serious like a Rwandan,” he said, “but it’s the Congolese who know how to fight. Maybe he’s both.”
“Maybe he doesn’t exist,” I said. “Maybe he lives only in the black man’s head.”
There was an article in the campus newspaper with the outline of a head and a series of quotes from students who claimed he was a myth. The next week, slogans written in black marker began to appear around campus. Their message, which every student soon knew by heart, was simple:
Marx was a great man, and now he’s dead.
Lenin was a great man, and now he’s dead.
I have to admit, I’m not feeling so well myself.
Isaac loved that. “That man is something special,” he said, over and over. He said it was proof that there were still real revolutionaries around, “not just rich boys waiting to be government ministers.”
The day after that message appeared, we scoured the campus in search of others. We found six more that day, five the next. On the third day, they had all been painted over and replaced with handwritten posters that read, “It Is a Crime Against the Country to Deface Our University Walls.”
The following Monday, Isaac arrived on campus with a dozen flyers he had made, using stolen paper and markers. That day, we christened the start of our paper revolution.
“Our first act of war,” Isaac said, “is to hang these up where everyone can see them. Why should they be the only ones who get to say stupid things?”
The flyers contained a new list of crimes against the country:
It is a Crime Against the Country to fail to report any Crimes committed Against the Country.
It is a Crime Against the Country not to know what is a Crime Against the Country.
It is a Crime Against the Country to ask what is a Crime Against the Country.
It is a Crime Against the Country to think or say there are too many Crimes Against the Country.
“We need one more,” I said. Isaac handed me his marker. I wrote the fifth and final crime on each of the flyers before showing it to him:
It is a Crime Against the Country to read this.
He put his arm around my shoulder and kissed the top of my head. “Together,” he said, “we’re remarkable.”
We waited for midday, when the university all but shut down for the hottest part of the afternoon, and then posted the flyers at the entrances to the main buildings on campus. Isaac added to the bottom of each one after we had taped it to a door, “The Paper Revolution Has Begun.”
When the late-afternoon classes started, we stood outside every building in turn, Isaac right next to the doors, me a few feet away. It was better than we had hoped. A crowd of students hovered around each flyer. At one point, someone tried to take one of them down, but he was quickly pushed to the back of the crowd.
Isaac wanted to celebrate the paper revolution’s first victory. “Very soon, the whole campus will know who we are,” he said. He took the flyers as proof that we were getting somewhere, that we were more than just idle spectators of campus life.
Isaac suggested I choose a poet’s name. “You’re no longer just the Professor,” he said. “It’s time you moved on to something new. Choose someone famous, but not too famous.”
I chose Langston. 
“He’s a poet?” he asked me.
“Yes,” I told him. “A great one,” although I had never read anything by him, and wasn’t even certain that he was a poet. I knew that he had attended the writers’ conference, and that I instantly felt attached to his name.
To celebrate our rise, Isaac suggested we go to the Café Flamingo, which was the most popular of all the cafés that sat along the winding, tree-lined road leading to campus. The students who spent time in the cafés had a reputation for ordering lavishly. They commanded pastries, tea, and coffee like mini-sovereigns and then later fought over who would pay. Normally, Isaac and I would have been embarrassed to sit in one of those cafés for hours, ordering only a cup of tea, but Isaac was feeling victorious, and there was nothing that could shame him.
“That’s where we belong,” he said. “In one of those expensive cafés with the rest of the students. Years from now, they will say, ‘That is where Isaac and Langston the Poet Professor used to meet.’ ”
He chose a table outside, near a group of boys who had their wide, butterfly-collared shirts exposed to reveal the gold chains underneath. Two spoke with genuine English accents, different in register from the fraudulent ones often heard around the campus. All of them wore freshly polished shoes. Whether any of them noticed Isaac and me take our seats is hard to say. Had we walked off, no one would have thought of us, but Isaac didn’t want it to be that way, and so it wasn’t.
“This place is full of Alexes,” I said.
“I know,” he said. “That’s why we came here.”
Isaac clapped his hands to get the waitress’s attention. The boys stopped their discussion and turned toward us. They started laughing. They immediately saw us for the poor village boys that we really were. A boy in a blue-and-white shirt was the first to stand up and clap back in response. The rest followed: some stood, a few sat, but all of them were clapping and mocking us. Poor Isaac. He was outsized and outnumbered, but I didn’t know him well enough to understand that made no difference to him. 
“Don’t get up,” he said. “I know how to handle this.”
And so I sat while he made his way toward them. It was a slower, more tempered version of his usual lope. He paused mid-stride, bent down, and briefly grazed the ground with his right hand. He took two more long strides, during which he aimed, pulled back his arm, and released the rock he had picked up directly into the mouth of the boy in the blue-and-white shirt. The applause stopped in time for us to hear the boy’s jawbone crack.
Isaac was taken down quickly. He held his ground as three boys about the same size as him charged. I kept my eyes focussed long enough to know that he made no attempt to run, and then I stopped looking. He was punched and kicked for several minutes. The beating would have lasted much longer had the boys not been ordered to stop by an older man who had been sitting near them. When I turned back, he had his arms around the shoulders of two of them and was walking them out of the café.
Isaac was still conscious, bleeding from his mouth and nose. His face and arms seemed to be swelling as I knelt beside him.
“What should I do?” I asked him.
He tried to laugh, but his lips and his lungs refused.
“This is nothing,” he said. “Go home and pretend this never happened.”
Two weeks passed before I saw Isaac again. I searched for him on campus and in our neighborhood, afraid of what he would say if I found him, or what he would think of me if I didn’t try. Then, one day, he walked through the front gates of the university with dark bruises beneath both eyes, a gash across his pointed chin, and a patch of scabs across the right side of his face. He limped, but with force—as if he were trying to show that the damage wasn’t permanent—to our corner of the campus. I watched as every head turned toward him. I knew the injuries were genuine, but still I thought, You’re doing a wonderful job, Isaac. By the time he reached me, there were pockets of students all across the main lawn whispering about him.
Had I not been so uncertain as to where I stood with him, I would have made more of his return. I would have told him that it was good to see him again, that he had been missed. “So—you’re finally back,” I said instead. I couldn’t decide if I should hold out my hand.
“Yes,” he said. “I knew this place would be empty without me.”
And we left it there. I followed Isaac toward the center of the campus. When we reached the southwest corner of the lawn, a spot normally occupied by the only two Angolans on campus, we stopped. Isaac didn’t acknowledge it, but it was obvious he was feeling tired.
“We should sit,” he said.
“There’s a bench over there.” I pointed to a shade-covered spot.
“Too far,” he said, and it was then that I caught the distinct wheezing in his breath. He had carried his limp far enough. He leaned gently on a young tree that bent slightly under his weight. He eased his way onto the ground and pulled his knees up close to his chest.
Every person who passed us stared at Isaac. There were brutally broken bodies begging on street corners across the city, and most of us hardly noticed them. People stared at Isaac because they assumed he was a student at the university, and therefore they thought they knew how he had earned his injuries. Several days earlier, a large crowd of protesters had marched along one of the main boulevards leading to the State House. They were allowed to get within a hundred yards before the tear gas and the clubs came out. A young woman walked past us and, without breaking her stride, said, “Our country needs more boys like you.”
“You’ve become very popular,” I said, “and you haven’t even been around.”
“I know,” Isaac said. “It’s a shame. I should have had myself beaten earlier. I could have been President by now.”
I didn’t judge him for letting that misconception spread, but only because I believed the timing of his return was a coincidence.
The weeks after that were calm around the university, despite the almost daily protests in the parts of the capital farthest from campus. There were rumors about arrests and violence on the edges of the city, and a few sparely written stories in the English-language newspapers, which I read and then immediately forgot, as if they were dispatches from a foreign country. It was understood that Isaac could always be found in the same spot, even if no one had yet tried to seek him out.
Each day at dusk we made our way slowly home. Isaac was still limping, although less noticeably. Walking required his concentration, but I suspected that he had to remember to struggle. If he was lying about his injury, I was hardly ready to hold him accountable. His wounds had got him somewhere. He was a figure, even if one without a name, and I understood his desire to hold on to that until another step on the university’s social ladder had been mounted. Only then would he give up the limp and the bandages; fortunately, he would still have the scars. I imagined him, as an old man, pointing to an old wound on his hand or his face, and saying, “This one came from the police.” Or, “This one I can’t remember anymore. I have so many on my body.”
It wasn’t long before students began to join Isaac and me by our tree in the center of campus. They had heard only rumors about him and knew nothing about me, but our daily vigil on the grass had made us familiar, comforting figures to gather around. The sole marker we had to distinguish us was a sign that Isaac posted on the tree behind us every day: “What Crimes Against the Country have you committed today?”
The first students who came to Isaac were cousins. Their names were Patience and Hope, and they were dressed in matching pleated gray skirts that were cut almost an inch above the knee.
“Sit,” Isaac told them, and then he gestured toward me. “This is my friend Langston the Professor, the future Emperor of [REDACTED].” Then he said, “Now tell me, what crimes against our country have you committed today?”
Patience, whose mouth bristled with clean, hard, white teeth, spoke first. “Does sitting here count as a crime?” she asked.
Isaac smiled. “Yes,” he said, “it definitely does.” He turned to Hope, who was leaning against her cousin. “And you,” he said. “If you’re related, then that makes you guilty as well.”
They laughed. They had come to be amused, and Isaac had charmed them. He didn’t try for more than that. After they had played their role, he asked where they were from and what they were studying. Both were majoring in economics; they were born and raised in the capital.
“Economics,” Isaac said. “That’s very good.” But I knew that, like me, he had only a vague understanding of what that meant: money, who had it and who didn’t. As Patience and Hope walked away, Isaac told them not to forget to say goodbye to the future emperor. Only Patience acknowledged me. “Goodbye, Emperor,” she said. By the time I thought to respond, she was too far away to hear me. Isaac watched me follow her with my eyes.
“Don’t worry,” he said. “She’ll be back.”
Every day more students came and introduced themselves to Isaac. One boy confessed to stealing money from his father, to which Isaac responded, “Stealing is not a crime in this country. Not stealing, however, is a terrible thing.” All the boys and girls close enough to hear that made sure everyone saw them laugh. When they were gone, Isaac whispered to me, “Did you see who laughed the hardest?” I hadn’t, and I doubted that he had, either, but I knew the answer.
“The boys with the polished shoes,” I said.
“That’s right. It was Alex.”
If students didn’t know what to say, he adjusted the rules of his game. He helped them invent their crimes. He borrowed from the President’s daily radio broadcasts, which for months had been long, rambling diatribes against all the enemies of the country, from the Europeans and the 556e6974656420537461746573ns to the Africans who were secretly working with them.
“Have you ever been an imperialist?” he asked them. “Have you ever tried to colonize a country?” “Do you listen to British radio?” “Do you know who the Queen of England is?” “Have you ever been friends with a European?” “Have you ever wanted to go to [REDACTED]?”
In just a few weeks, Isaac’s confessional drew hundreds of students, and, of those, a few dozen returned consistently. Most of us didn’t know one another’s names or ages or reasons for being there, and that was fine, because silence isn’t the same when it’s shared. Its sad and lonely aspects are shunted off.
The protests that had begun at the start of the semester turned violent at around this time. Returning home one evening, we heard how, in a shanty village that neither of us had ever been to, tires had been thrown over the heads of four soldiers who had come to arrest someone. After a few minutes of watching the soldiers struggle to free themselves, someone doused the tires with gasoline and set them ablaze. The next day, the neighborhood was cordoned off, and for twenty-four hours no one who lived there was allowed to leave. A few days later, several people were shot near the State House gates—they were accused of plotting to kill the President. Then the dead people’s families and friends were arrested. And so, even though our neighborhood was quiet, everyone who lived around us felt vulnerable. If tomorrow it was decided that your neighbor was trying to undermine the government, then the only thing you could say was “Yes, I had suspected that might be possible all along.”
Up on the hill where the university sat, little had changed. Isaac took down his sign in March. “I think it’s gone on long enough,” he said. He had earned the respect of the revolutionaries on both sides of us. Students waved or said hello as they passed. When he took down the sign, I asked if he knew what he was going to do next.
“I do.” He leaned against his tree and crossed his legs as if preparing to nap. “I’m going to enjoy this for as long as it lasts.”
The hours we spent on campus followed us home at the end of the day. For weeks we were like visitors in our real lives, and even then we were terrible tourists, purposefully blind to the plainclothesmen who watched all the houses with notebooks in their hands, deaf to the evening shouts around us. I knew it wouldn’t last long. My landlord came to my room one evening and told me to pay attention at night, especially when I was supposed to be sleeping. “Rest in the day,” he said. “Keep your eyes open at night. I tell this to everyone.” But I knew it was me he was worried about. I was a foreigner. I had no ties to any of the local or even distant tribes. I played on the grass in the afternoon with Isaac, and then worried late at night.
As it turned out, it was Isaac who was cast out into the street first. Not long after the soldiers were burned, the friends of his cousins whom he had been living with told him they could no longer afford to keep him there.
“They told me they don’t have enough space for another person,” he said. That was on the first night of his homelessness, when he came and knocked on my wall sometime after midnight, looking for a place to sleep.
Isaac made a bed on the floor out of the clothes he had brought with him. One of us often fell asleep for a half-hour or less while on campus. Whoever was awake sat guard; most often, I was the one who slept. Those brief naps had become the best sleep I got, because I knew Isaac was next to me and wouldn’t leave until I awoke. Now I turned onto my side so I could see his outline on the floor.
“I know you’re tired,” he said. “Don’t worry. Nothing is going to happen. Get some sleep.”
I tried to sound as confident as he did. “I’m not worried,” I said, but it was obvious I was scared and had been for many days.
“You’re an emperor,” he told me. “King of kings. No harm can come to you.”
I listened to him breathe. I counted his breaths. I doubt I made it to a hundred before I was asleep. I didn’t wake up until late the next morning, and by then he was gone.
A notice was published in all the newspapers that morning, warning people not to gather in large numbers. It took the top spot on every front page, under headlines such as “government warns of increasing risks in public gatherings.” Had the article simply stated what its authors knew to be true, something along the lines of “mass arrests and torture have been planned” or just “leave now,” a lot of time and lives could have been saved. Instead, there were several days of random beatings and arrests of young men across the capital before a mass retreat indoors began.
When I saw Isaac on campus again a few days later, I asked him where he was living. He told me that he was staying with someone far away from our neighborhood and that I shouldn’t worry. “I have friends who have given me a place,” he said.
I went to campus daily, to see him but also simply to breathe easier, to walk, sit, and read without fear. I knew that this wouldn’t hold for much longer; the noose that had been cast over the city would find its way up the hill, regardless of how many government ministers’ children were at the university. I’m sure Isaac knew this, too, and so did the other students, who, in the days following the headlines, began to gather around him in increasing numbers. The police who patrolled the campus had taken note of the crowd and began to linger around the edge of our group. Someone from inside our circle said, for all, including the guards, to hear, “There is nothing more restless than anxious men in power.”
Our gathering was broken up on a Friday afternoon at the start of April, after classes had ended. Our numbers were no larger than they had been the week before: we were twenty or thirty at most. The only difference was that we huddled closer together. When four campus guards in shabby blue uniforms, wielding worn wooden nightsticks, surrounded us, more than a minute passed before any of us thought to run. The closer we were to one another the safer we felt, and each of us was reluctant to give that up.
The guards waited until they were certain they had our attention before they began to swing. The only person who didn’t run was Isaac. When I looked for him, he was just standing there, his arms at his sides so that his entire body was fully exposed. A few minutes passed before one of the guards noticed him. He was the perfect image of defiance. They’re going to bash his head in, I thought. Seconds later came the crack of wood meeting bone.
The guards left Isaac where he fell. I ran and hid in a parking lot on the eastern edge of the campus. When I came back, ten minutes later, he was gone. I walked to the tree where I had last seen him and searched the grass for any sign that he had been there—an impression of a body in the grass, a few flecks of blood—but there was nothing. I waited for an hour, and then two, knowing he wouldn’t return, but hoping that he might see me and know that this time I hadn’t abandoned him.
I waited each night for Isaac to knock on my window. I would have taken him in without hesitation, but I was afraid he would ask. New checkpoints were erected daily, and within days it was impossible to penetrate the cluster of shacks that ringed our neighborhood and the two surrounding it without showing your official I.D. Every coming and going, except those through obscure back routes that wound through half-burnt piles of trash and open latrine pits, eventually had a checkpoint where young men logged into notebooks the names and occupations of everyone who passed. No bureaucracy in the country had ever worked properly until then. Years could be lost in search of a birth certificate, a driver’s license, or a passport. The daily records of names, entries, and departures signalled the end of that.
I assumed Isaac had chosen to keep his distance. I imagined that, after recovering on a bed in a stranger’s apartment, he had walked to our neighborhood and taken note of the checkpoints and the fatigues of the Presidential Guard. Then he would have turned his head in the other direction, to hide the bruises that covered his face, and walked farther and farther north, past the last of the slums, until he reached a corner of the city that was barely inhabited and that until only a few years earlier had been a village of a dozen thatch-roofed huts. I didn’t have the heart or the courage to imagine him in prison, much less dead; I thought of him simply as lost, one of the millions across the world who vanish one day and can still rise again.
When I returned to campus, after a week, it was obvious that the days of banners, posters, and speeches were over. I knew, as soon as I passed through the metal gates of the university and saw at least a hundred students sitting shoulder to shoulder, back to back, in a circle, on the same grounds where Isaac and I had often sat with only each other for company, that the only thing left of the campus I had known was the buildings. The students had conquered that piece of land, and their mass was proof of the lengths to which they were willing to go to defend it. Something was smoldering along the edges of the circle, but from my angle it was impossible to tell what had been burned; there were too many soldiers and police for me to take in the entire scene. The best thing for me was to turn around and leave through the front gates. This was not my fight and not why I had come here, but that was irrelevant now. I was no longer just a spectator. Isaac had insured that. I couldn’t see him yet, but I was certain he was at the center of that crowd, ready for battle, waiting for me to join him. 

