First Husband
By Antonya Nelson
“Lovey,” her husband said gently, which was his way. “It’s for you.” The velvet blackness of 2 a.m., of nearly death-deep sleep: the ringing telephone had been a fire alarm in her dream; reluctantly, she’d exited an unfamiliar building but not awakened, hovering in some liminal space. The building was filled with naked bodies, and she wished to return to them and their naughty party. “Lovey,” her husband said again, and she was livid with him, with his dull insistence, forcing her to attend to him when what she wanted to do was run back inside the burning building. “Lovey,” he said a third time, and then the light snapped on.
On the phone was Bernadette, her former stepdaughter. Her ex-husband’s youngest and most difficult girl, who was busy apologizing, as usual.
“I’m so sorry, but he’s been drinking,” Bernadette was saying of her delinquent husband. “I need to find him before something happens. I mean, he can’t afford to get arrested again.”
“I can be there in twenty minutes.”
“Actually? I’m sorry, but could I bring the kids to you? If he comes home, I don’t want them to see him. You know, it’s just so hard to have a conversation with kids around. Or a fight, for that matter, which is probably what’s going to happen. God, I’m really so fucking sorry, Lovey. . . .”
“Bring them, please, it’s fine—you should never worry about that.” Sleep and dreams had fallen away, along with, she suddenly realized, her first husband, whose hand she’d been holding in the burning building. Had he been nude, too? That wouldn’t have been like him, naked in public.
“I’m already in the car with them,” Bernadette said. “I was thinking I could start on Central and just see if he’s parked on some barstool or other. Please don’t tell Dad, O.K.? I mean, he already thinks I’m a total fuckup and he hates Aaron enough. Plus, he’ll tell my sisters.” And then she was crying. Poor Bernadette. Had the girl ever not been miserable? Even as a child, she had cultivated hurtful friendships, had forever been suffering slights or neglect or flat-out cruelty, this girl like a loyal beaten dog.
“Honey, I would never tell your dad. We’re not exactly on speaking terms. Bring the kids. I’m up. Don’t worry.”
“Actually?” Bernadette said. “I’m in your driveway. God, Lovey, I’m really, really sorry!”
The seven-year-old carried the diaper bag and a backpack, tilted sideways under the load, while his mother brought in the two car seats holding his sleeping sisters. “God, it smells like snow out there! How often does that happen at this time of year? I pumped,” Bernadette explained in a whisper. “Give Lovey the breast milk,” she told Caleb. The boy produced a pair of tepid yellowish Baggies. There was always something a little unsavory about dealing with breast milk. Maybe if Lovey had had her own babies she wouldn’t have felt this way.
The girls were left in their car seats on the living-room rug, which seemed wrong, somehow, people lashed into chairs, especially the three-year-old, whose big head looked unnaturally perpendicular in a way that would lead to a terrible neck ache. On the other hand, the girls were sure to scream if wakened.
Bernadette was squinting at her cell phone, lips moving as she read something there. “Shit, he’s with Lance—that can’t end well. So I think she’ll be good till maybe, like, four?” She pressed her hand into each breast, checking. “You could just nuke a bottle for her then. And Caleb—I don’t think he’ll sleep, but he could watch Looney Tunes, maybe? With no sound? Will you watch Looney Tunes on mute so Lovey can go back to bed, honey?”
“Don’t worry about us,” Lovey said. “We’ll play Monotony.” Lovey was the only person who would indulge Caleb’s fondness for Monopoly. The boy had been her first grandchild, born the year she divorced his grandfather, when she was a mere thirty-seven—far too young to be called Grandma! In public she was often mistaken for his mother, and it was for Caleb that she’d come up with an acceptable nickname, Lovey, to take the place of Evelyn. He was a serious boy, a boy who hadn’t spoken until he could do so in complete sentences, who’d said, quite frankly, after the birth of each of his sisters, that he did not like them. “How’s your new sister?” somebody would ask. “Terrible,” he’d reply. His feelings were so readily hurt. He was like his mother that way, a child too tender, who bruised. Nor did he laugh easily.
“Please don’t think I’m a fuckup,” Bernadette pleaded as she whirled her way toward the door. “And tell William I’m sorry I woke him. Be good, Caleb. I love you.”
Caleb was already laying out the game board, counting money, and stacking up the Chance cards. He looked like his grandfather, Lovey’s first husband—the same thick copper-colored hair, the large brown eyes and plush lips. Her first husband had been forty-five, at the tail end of his fruitful handsomeness, when she married him but still moving through the world with the confidence of a man who’d bedded a lot of women, all but the first few—when he was a beginner, on the receiving end of a romantic education—younger than him; he was a serial seducer. Lovey had been his third wife; perhaps she could have predicted that she would not succeed where two others had failed, but that was the nature of love, and of youth, and the combination, youthful love—they made you arrogant, or stubborn, impervious to the lessons of others.
If you paid attention to all the lessons of others, you might never do anything.
Caleb handed Lovey the dog. He was always the hat. “I want to be the banker,” he said.
“Fine,” she said, though this would make it more difficult for her to guarantee that he won. But that was the challenge in raising children, wasn’t it? Insuring that your ability to deceive kept pace with their ability to see through you. At what point were you able to come completely clean? Could you ever, for example, reveal to children that parents did not, actually, love their offspring equally? Her ex-husband had preferred his eldest, the prettiest, the strongest. And Lovey? She’d always been partial to needy Bernadette. Bernadette’s sisters had found their stepmother lacking. She was so young. For a while, it had been fun to play the hip young mother, the one who shared clothing with them, who liked their music, the four of them ganging up on her husband, their father, who was old, so old! So old-fashioned! So out of date! So shockable! But he wasn’t, not really, and at some point his indulgence began to falter, his paternal tolerance turned tense, at least as it regarded Lovey, because eventually she was no longer his pretty young wife; she was, instead, too familiar, too known and knowing, too something he could not even put his finger on, but he no longer wished to have sex with her, no longer found her desirable enough to be able to have sex with her. This wasn’t willed, he assured her; it wasn’t his fault. If she insisted, he could medicate himself into readiness, but did she really want that? Did she, he asked earnestly, want him to fake what he could not naturally feel? Was that the kind of love she wanted?
Yes, she confessed, though only to herself. Yes, that was what she would take, if it was all he could offer.
“You told me to be honest,” he said. “This is me being honest.”
The first stage of the game was always the best—all that acquisition and possibility, the tidy array of money, the fairness. Caleb knelt in his chair, poised over the colorful board like a gargoyle, rolling for Lovey when she went to check on his sisters, moving her Scottie dog forward, providing her with two hundred dollars whenever Go came around. In order not to land on Boardwalk first, Lovey allowed one of the dice to fall to the floor, claiming a number that put her on Luxury Tax, whatever that was, instead. At last, Caleb acquired his beloved cobalt-blue plot. Later, once it was expensively developed, Lovey would land there an inordinate number of times so that he could fleece her.
Why was it so satisfying to see him win?
It was nice, this strange intimacy in the kitchen at three in the morning, no other light in the house. They were outside of time, Lovey thought, waiting for the rules to kick in again. If it did snow, school might be closed. Albuquerque was not accustomed to weather; Lovey had grown up in the [REDACTED], where snow days required an actual blizzard, instead of mere flurries or patches of ice. Her first husband had brought her to the desert; she could thank him, she supposed, for that gift. When they parted, he hadn’t wanted much of what they’d collected together, in their twelve years. Was that generosity? Guilt? Or simple indifference?
Caleb heard the baby first, his head tipped toward the living room as his hand halted above the board in mid-count. “Forty-five seconds,” he told Lovey, meaning the breast milk and the microwave. “I can do it.” Lovey took the opportunity while the boy was at the refrigerator to slip a five-hundred-dollar bill from her stack of cash back into the bank.
She could not figure out the car seat’s elaborate buckle, so the child’s crying became hysterical. Caleb silently undid the clasp, then found the three-year-old’s pacifier and stoppered her with it before she fully woke as well. “You’re a good boy,” Lovey told him repeatedly. In the kitchen, the warm bottle waited. Lovey had only to sit down and assume the position, the girl’s face beside her own breast. While she fed the baby, Caleb played both sides of the game, counting aloud, asking if Lovey wanted to buy the electric company or not. “Not,” she said. Her pickiness about property he never questioned. He seemed to accept the idea that he alone knew that buying everything was the secret to success.
Caleb’s sisters were utterly unlike their brother. They demanded what they wanted. They entered a room and immediately began competing to be its center of attention, the baby now knocking her head into Lovey’s sternum, making fists with her hands and banging at her bottle; if her nails weren’t clipped, she’d rake her own face until it bled. They required a lot of attention. They made a great deal of noise. The three-year-old could not be reasoned with; it was useless to try. She did not understand taking turns or sharing, and resorted to crude short-cutting substitutions like grabbing and screaming. “If they were dogs,” Caleb had told Lovey of his sisters, “you could put them in a cage.”
“If they were dogs,” Lovey said, “you could take them to the pound.”
When the baby began gagging, Caleb informed Lovey that the bottle was to blame, that the milk came out faster than it did from his mother’s breast, that the baby was used to sucking harder, so she choked herself. “Greedy girl,” Lovey murmured. “I wonder where your daddy is.”
“I don’t know,” Caleb said. “But he rode his bike and he forgot his helmet.”
“Dangerous.” Although safer, by far, than driving. Aaron’s sobriety was tenuous, court-ordered, the elephant in the room at any family get-together. He would sit meekly at the table studying his sparkling water while others pretended not to be aware of his every sip. Months would pass—a new child would be born, a better job would come along, things would be looking up—and then the phone call in the middle of the night. Bernadette had always loved boys like this, bad boys, attractive and uncontrollable. Her first boyfriend had drowned in a lake after driving a car into it. Some other night, and Bernadette could have been in that car with him. Aaron had probably been friends with that boy—it would make sense. Bernadette hadn’t really had a chance to get much past high school. She’d got pregnant with Caleb in her first semester at the U. The child had been responsible for her cleaning up her act and completing that year, her only college experience. In fact, Caleb’s arrival had given everyone some distraction. His grandfather had gone—left not only Lovey but his daughters, moved a thousand miles north, and started anew—but in his place was this beautiful, easy child. 
Without Aaron, there would be no Caleb. Lovey had to remind herself of this sad fact. Her ex-stepson-in-law caused a lot of trouble, but, because of him, here before her was a boy for her to love, who loved her. Caleb would grow up and perhaps grow away from her—there was no shared blood, and someday he would understand that. Someday he might untie the knots of those prefixes that labelled Lovey, ex- and step-. He would turn into a teen-ager and disappear, like his father, into the night. Lovey had lived through those adolescent years with her first husband’s three daughters, each girl more outrageous than the one before, culminating with the spectacular misbehavior of Bernadette, who’d had, it seemed, no kernel of self-control or restraint at her center, who’d run away, totalled vehicles, got arrested, inhaled or smoked or drunk whatever substance anyone handed her, landed in jail, who had perhaps been unable to find a way to make herself want to continue living.
Until Caleb. The boy had saved her as well.
The baby was still fussy after her bottle, agitated and thrashing. She didn’t want a pacifier. She didn’t want to be left kicking on the floor under the spell of a musical mobile. She didn’t need a new diaper, couldn’t be made contented. It was as if she wished to break out of her own skin. Lovey sat her on her lap and the child grabbed up the game tokens, stuffing one into her mouth before either Caleb or Lovey could stop her.
“If she swallows it, we have to wait for it to come out in her poop,” Caleb said. “Which is gross.”
“Jesus Christ!” Lovey hooked her index finger into the child’s mouth, removing the little metal dog. “Maybe she’s still hungry,” she said over the girl’s renewed outrage.
The noise woke the three-year-old, who began wailing from the living room, “Ma-ma-ma-ma-ma-ma!” Her brother went to fetch her, having first pushed the game to the center of the table, out of reach. Lovey put several of her peach and blue hundred- and fifty-dollar bills back in the bank. She also removed a few houses from the long crowded row of red and yellow properties, where she’d become an inadvertent real-estate mogul.
In came sad Celia, not as lovely as her older brother or her little sister, the child who’d lost in the looks lottery, big-featured and big-boned. She also seemed developmentally behind—still wearing diapers, still chewing on a pacifier, still sobbing inarticulately. It felt bad to dislike her, and Lovey would never have admitted to it, but the child irritated her. She sat now on the kitchen floor and continued to wail for her mother. Over and over, the plea, a pitiful mass of green mucus beneath her nose and chin. Lovey had closed the kitchen door to keep William from waking. He had hospital rounds in the morning, in a mere four hours; he needed his sleep. These children did not compel his specific interest, coming into his life, as they had, two or three times removed, these ex-step-in-laws-by-marriage. He had his own children to fret over; their hardships were another whole scenario, ongoing across town, in his former house, with his ex-wife and her new husband.
Lovey got out the candy, the surefire solution, a small pile of M&M’s for Celia to take solace in. “Is there enough for me?” Caleb asked.
“Not really,” Lovey said. “Just the one snack bag. I have raisins.”
“No, thanks.” He sighed. Raisins: that was his lot in life.
Even after her second bottle, the baby was not satisfied. Bernadette had predicted 4 a.m., and here it was. Lovey texted her and got no reply.
“There’s formula in the bag,” Caleb told her, and then proceeded to fix a bottle of it, studying the lines on the bottle, levelling the powder with a knife on the scoop. It made Lovey sad to see him shake up the concoction before microwaving it, and sadder still to watch him test its temperature on his wrist.
A text arrived from Bernadette: “Found him, heading home!”
“Everybody fine here,” Lovey wrote back. The beauty of texting: no telltale soundtrack. For the kitchen was loud, both girls miserable, the chocolate gone, the formula apparently not to the baby’s taste. She wanted the real thing, from the real source.
“Hey there,” William said, announcing himself, hair mashed flat against his temple, shirtless and in gym shorts. Seeing him like this always reminded Lovey that her first husband would never have walked around without a shirt, without his hair combed; he was vain about his body, his age, his aging body. Again, she tried to recall: had he been nude in her dream? He had often taken an apple to bed with him at night, so that he could freshen his breath with a bite first thing in the morning. William gave Lovey a perfunctory stale-smelling peck on the cheek. “What’s all the hubbub, bub?” he asked the three-year-old as he stepped over her to get to the coffeemaker.
The child swung her arm out to hit his shin.
“I’m sorry,” Lovey said.
“Mercy,” William said. “That kid packs a wallop. And you appear to be getting your ass kicked,” he said, regarding the game. “I’ve arrived here not a moment too soon.” Lovey’s first husband had been known to storm out of dinner parties, to take offense at nothing, to cut off friendships—“Dead to me!” he would declare. He’d behaved like a child always on the verge of a tantrum. With him, Lovey had had to be careful, to tread lightly, to pay her full attention. All of her friends preferred William. They approved of his jocularity, his slow-moving, steady ways. He’d been an [REDACTED] doc; it had given him perspective. In this dawn kitchen, there was, to his practiced eyes, no real trouble.
“Give me that,” William said, taking the baby from Lovey. “Let’s try some shock therapy, shall we?” He opened the back door and stepped out into the cold air, which silenced the baby instantaneously. When he brought her back inside and she began to wail again, he did the same thing.
Caleb said, “Maybe you should leave her out there?”
“It’d be tempting if there weren’t snow. And then there’s that one,” William said, “sitting in her own filth.” This made Caleb laugh, a bright burst of surprised happiness. He would repeat this expression for days, amusing himself with its perfectly droll un-profaneness.
William took over the Monopoly game while Lovey attended to diapers. “What is that pile of cash doing there?” he asked, of the Free Parking money. It wasn’t in the rules, but it was tradition. William’s children were teen-age boys who played high-school football. That was the sort of father he’d been, one who enjoyed a team and rules. If Caleb had been his son, he’d have had a bristly haircut and would never have been allowed to stay up all night playing Monopoly. If he’d had to play a board game, it would have been something dignified, like chess.
By the time Lovey got back with the freshly clothed girls, Caleb’s lip was trembling, something William wouldn’t necessarily notice, since he was playing along just to be a good sport, a place-holder. The Free Parking money was gone, she noted.
Lovey let Celia knock the whole enterprise to the floor, a glorious clattering spill of cards and tokens and fluttering cash.
“An act of God,” William declared. He stretched and scratched, finished his coffee, gave Lovey a knowing lift of his brow and Caleb a ruffling of his hair, then disappeared into the shower. By the time he returned, the game was under way again and Lovey was nearly destitute.
“You’re hopeless, honey,” William said, settling at his computer for the news. “Hey, look,” he said, swinging the screen around for Lovey to see. For a few seconds, Lovey studied the Facebook photograph: Bernadette in a short dress, holding a cigarette and a beer bottle, Aaron to her right, another man to her left, the two of them equally in possession of her in a flagrantly drugged and drunken state. “Freak blizzard in Duke City!” the caption read, the time imprint only thirty minutes earlier. As a teen-ager, Bernadette had come to Lovey on many an occasion, wasted and weeping, repentant and apologetic, afraid of her mercurial father, claiming again and again that only Lovey understood her. That same girl was in the photograph, her loose sedated face, flanked by the same idle boys, whose reckless seduction she could not resist. And then suddenly the photograph was gone. As if it had been a product of Lovey’s imagination, something she had dreamed. “She took it down,” William said. “Of course. She realized you’d see it—of course she took it down.”
“What?” Caleb asked, monitoring what was happening.
“Let’s check with your mom about school,” Lovey said. “Maybe you can take the day off.”
“I don’t want to miss school.”
“Maybe it’ll be a snow day.”
When Bernadette answered, Lovey understood immediately that she was still drunk. “Lovey,” she said. “I’m sorry. The good news is I found him, he’s fine, but the bad news is we have to talk—it’s time to come to Jesus, again.”
Lovey’s first husband had stolen her best years, keeping her captive during the time that she might, in some other circumstance, have delivered children of her own. He’d fooled her, she thought. He’d held her hostage and then released her when it was too late. That was the story she told herself and mostly believed. And Bernadette alone of the three girls subscribed to it as well. The others had split their loyalty equally, judging nobody, visiting their father, accepting their second stepmother, who was the same age as they. Only impulsive Bernadette had severed ties. Only loyal Bernadette had stood by Lovey.
“Let her sober up before you take the kids home,” William advised. “Let them both sober up. How about you guys go watch TV?” he asked the children. “How’s about I set up some ‘Tom and Jerry’?”
Lovey had met William through friends, a match everyone approved of. “Age-appropriate,” her friends and family had agreed, pleased to have Lovey squarely tucked away again, married. Her parents had never been happy about her first marriage, had never visited without awkwardness and sad sighs over the terrible absence of true grandchildren, the presence of these three half-time stepdaughters who did not particularly respond to them. In everyone else’s view, Lovey was lucky to have got out before her older husband became like a third aging parent, before the inevitable illness and decline. Those eventualities were still ahead, she supposed. He was sixty-four now, his new wife in her thirties, an undeniably beautiful woman. Young. Fresh.
And William? Lovey loved him well enough, in the way of adulthood, she thought, not in the feverish former manner of witless drowning immersion, that love she’d fallen into heedlessly, as if into a body of water, with no idea of what such a thing could cost her. It had nearly killed her, when all was said and done. Meaning she’d felt like dying. She would never be that kind of lover again, never endanger herself that way again. And she understood that William, too, had been disposed of, that his ex-wife had had a similar nuclear potency for him, and that he loved Lovey now with the conscious intensity of somebody who was aware that he was exacting a kind of revenge—or, perhaps, simply acting in the belief that his ex was paying attention, that he had a need to prove that he’d survive and thrive, the victor. A victor, anyway.
“I feel like an idiot,” she told William, once the children were out of earshot. “How could I let her do this to me?”
“What has she done, really?” he said. “I mean, she could have got you to babysit, if she’d wanted. She could have asked you to stay over at her house with them, and you would have. Or she could have told you they were going on a date night or something. Either way, you would have hung out with the kids overnight, so it’s really not so different. When you think about it.”
“I guess I thought she trusted me.”
“She left her children with you. She called you when she felt like getting trashed. How much more trust do you want?”
“I still feel like a fool.”
“Don’t beat yourself up. Everything’s fine. See you tonight.” He provided another peck on the cheek, this time of the minty variety. And, once again, Lovey thought of her first husband—his apple-flavored mouth, his kisses that could paralyze her with brutal desire, still, still, even in absentia.
Caleb came back from the television to put in a request from Celia. “She wants Cheerios. I told her no milk in the living room, then she threw the remote at me.” He touched his forehead. He was too thin, and now he had dark circles under his eyes. Lovey should have made him go to bed. From the living room came the ruckus of cartoon violence. The three-year-old liked to turn up the volume; maybe she was loud because she was a little deaf—Lovey would have to mention that possibility to Bernadette. When she next saw Bernadette.
Meanwhile, Caleb was checking the game board. “Lovey,” he said, “what happened to all your money?”
“What do you mean?”
His face was suddenly furious, his rage as rare as his laughter, and this time aimed at her. “Don’t let me win,” he demanded. “Don’t you dare let me win!” 

