Roadkill
By Romesh Gunesekera
The first night I stayed in Kilinochchi I was a little apprehensive. Most of us living in the south of Sri Lanka had come to think of this town as the nerve center of terror. As Mr. Wahid, my first 4d616c6179736961n client, said, in English even the name sounded brutal—like the kind of town where you could imagine a Clint Eastwood character striding in and notching the stock of his rifle with yet another senseless killing. In reality, Kilinochchi had been the capital of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam for years. Here the Tigers had had their civic center, their secretariat, their press conferences. This was the place where Tiger stamps, L.T.T.E. travel passes, G.C.E. school-exam papers, land mines, and black-stripe grenades were issued. The Eelam bank was here, Swiss style, before it came to a swift end in the final stages of the civil war. This was the place the Tigers had then destroyed, toppling the water tower and blowing up the municipal buildings, before evacuating into the ever diminishing jungle as the Sri Lankan Army marched in, guns blazing, for the showdown of January, 2009.
But now, two years later, I turned off the highway, teeming with road hogs and pot rodents, into the brand-new forecourt of the Spice Garden Inn, and it could have been the latest incarnation of the Colombo Hotel Corporation in full flutter: a northern cousin dolled up with colored flags, ribbons, and streamers. A glass-walled cafeteria shone, and the reception desk overflowed with coconut flowers and bougainvillea. The scent of wax polish, disinfectant, and karapincha leaves fried in sesame oil masked the lingering spoor of the vanished big cats. This hotel signalled the new era of the old town.
Mrs. Arunachalam, who was seven months pregnant and spread across the middle seat of my taxi van, wanted to make the eleven-hour journey to Jaffna in small stages, like an ant on a sugar trail. She ought not to have been travelling at all, the way she sighed and swooned, but her husband was very keen to show her a property in Jaffna that he intended to buy and develop as their new family home, and so she had come.
“Vasantha, can’t you go slowly around the bend, please?” she kept saying, in an infuriating refrain, from the moment we left Rajagiriya on her journey of a lifetime.
“Yes, Madam,” I’d reply. Yes, yes, yes. I am already around the bleeding bend.
When she saw the flags and streamers, she was jubilant. “That’s the place. That’s the place we booked for the night, Kollu. Isn’t it pretty?”
Her husband leaned forward. “That’s right. You’ll be able to rest very quietly here.”
Within half an hour, they had tucked into the best part of a pot of chicken curry and gone to their room upstairs to gently burp and gurgle their prenatal intimacies. By the time I got to the cafeteria, it was empty, except for the creepy-crawlies on the wall and one sulky waiter massaging his neck.
“Dinner put.” He pointed at the curry pot and the basin of boiled rice. He was more suited to the job of a traffic policeman, one of the automaton types we used to have before we modernized into a mania for red-amber-green multispots. 

I took a plate and helped myself to the last bits of scraggly chicken bone and a couple of spoonfuls of rice. I’ve had worse, but not much worse. One of the things you notice when you drive up and down the country is the variation that’s possible in something as simple as boiled rice. Sometimes it feels as if you were eating pebbles; other times it’s like cotton. At the Spice Garden Inn, the rice was definitely on the rocky side. But after the war and the wall-to-wall fighting in the town, it was hardly surprising that even rice would turn to rubble. The thought of what might have been done with bullets and mortars in this very spot chastened me. I needed a beer.
I asked the waiter for one, wondering idly what kind they’d have: imported Tiger beer?
He disappeared into the back. When he returned, he had a tall, dark bottle of Three Coins on a metal tray and a young woman in a gray trouser suit in tow. Halfway across the room, she overtook him, pushing a metal chair neatly out of the way and coming to a stop in front of my table.
“Welcome.” She parted her lips in a smile, but barely a muscle moved beyond her mouth. Her eyes seemed to be calculating the exact dimensions of my head, neck, and chest. She noted the position of my hands and the state of my fingernails. “From Colombo?”
I nodded. “Jaffna tour.”
“This is the place to break the journey, then.”
“That’s what they wanted. My party needs a lot of rest.” I patted my stomach as though I were the pregnant one.
“Drivers must rest, also. Driving all day is too much, no?”
I shrugged. Once you are in the driver’s seat, all that matters is keeping your eyes open. Maybe not all that matters, but the main thing. On these long empty roads going north, even the speed of your reflexes isn’t that important. We are no longer at war. “This is a nice place.”
She looked at me now as if she were trying to tell whether I was being truthful. As if it mattered. “I am the assistant manager. Miss Saraswati. My job is to make this hotel very welcoming so that it becomes the regular stop for all tours going up to Jaffna.” She paused. “For breakfast, lunch, dinner, or overnight. We can do everything.”
I had no doubt that she could. She seemed very capable, although she definitely needed a better cook.
“Are you from a hotel school, then? Catering and management?” People who have made more informed choices in their lives than I have always impress me.
“We had a lot of training.” She let the waiter put the tray down and pour half the bottle of beer into my glass. “We have to be able to cope with every situation. If we keep our focus, we can overcome problems. Any problem.” She had the severe look that some women have when they think their time is running out.
I waited for the froth to subside. “Starting something like this up here must be difficult. E.T.s are pouring into the south like cement from a pipe now, but here it is still only locals, no?”
“Cement?” She looked puzzled. “E.T.s?”
“You could say like beer or water, but I was thinking of the new hotels being built and all the European tourists, even the Nordics, now happily sunning themselves on the beach.” As I spoke, it occurred to me that the picture I was painting was probably impossible to imagine in this dumping ground of bombs. I gulped down some beer and poured the rest of the bottle into the glass, realizing too late that, out of courtesy, I should have offered her some. “Are you from Kilinochchi?”
“Nearby.” She tipped her head. “I went to Jaffna and then came here.”
“College?” I asked admiringly.
“Something like that.”
“Because of the—”
“Yes.” The word was quick and oddly unerring. Not only did she have poise and determination but she seemed tightly strung, like one of those ballerinas performing with the Bolshoi on TV. Every look, every movement bound to a larger purpose. The Spice Garden Inn was lucky to have her: it surely would not fail with her in place.
The waiter, who had moved to the back of the room, started. “Rat,” he yelped.
Miss Saraswati spun around. A big brown rodent was scurrying across the floor toward the tallboy in the far corner. She hissed loudly and sharply, and it froze for a moment. As it began to edge forward again, she grasped my beer bottle by the neck and flung it. The bottle hit the rat with such force that the creature thudded against the wall. The bottle rolled along, unbroken. Its base had smashed the animal’s small skull.
“Burn it,” she instructed the waiter. “Use a plastic bag. Wash your hands afterward.” She turned to me. “Sorry about that. I’ll bring you another bottle.”
I stared at Miss Saraswati. “You learn to do that at Jaffna hotel school?”
While she went to get another beer, I sat and gazed at my plate of food. I don’t mind rats, or the killing of them; I was just a little stunned by her action. The accuracy with which she had thrown the bottle was extraordinary.
When she returned, her polite smile was back in place. “Sorry,” she said again and placed the new bottle in front of me. She sat down. “Please eat.”
I pushed my plate away.
“What? No appetite now? Don’t worry. It’s dead, no?”
“I ate.”
“They are all over the town, but we do not allow them here. I believe it is not good for guests to see.”
“Yes, true. Guests can get upset very easily.”
“Usually the dogs keep the rats away.”
“Dogs are good. Yes.” I had a dog once, a small terrier. It had belonged to a Danish man I worked for in Colombo. When he was posted to Laos, he decided that he couldn’t take the little fellow with him. I offered to look after the dog, and when I told him that I lived in a house with a small garden he let me. But about a year later the dog died. It shot out of the gate one day and was hit by a minister’s sidekick in one of those high-speed V.I.P. cavalcades on the main road. This happened a long time ago—it was not the fault of the current government—and I wouldn’t have told her about it if she hadn’t asked.
She nodded, as though small killings were a natural part of politics as well as of hotel management. She pulled out one of the two paper serviettes from the chrome clip on the table and smoothed it like a mini funeral shroud. “You have to bury the dead and move on.”
“Bury or burn?”
“That doesn’t matter. What matters is what you carry inside.” Her mouth tightened with what I thought was a hint of hurt or anger. She wasn’t talking about rats or dogs.
I like to know about the world beyond our shores. About faraway countries where people behave differently. I like to hear about their food and customs. How they deal with the cold and the rain. What it’s like to drive on the other side of the road. I like to take foreign tourists around because it gives me a glimpse of a place that is different in touch, taste, smell, sound, and look from the place I am stuck in. I watch how they sit, how they walk, how they talk, and I try to see what they want to escape from and then return to. They are not all driven only by a desire for sex in new places. Some want to know about our history and our culture and what makes us live the way we do. So do I. Sometimes I don’t know how we manage. We know so little, and the little we do know we get so muddled. Miss Saraswati intrigued me. She seemed to come from some other place: not Kilinochchi, not a Jaffna college, not anywhere nearby but somewhere dark and hungry and deep. Somewhere beyond the blackness at the end of the garden, where even the moonlight shrank back. Of course, I was not her guide; she was really mine, so the sock was on the wrong foot, if you know what I mean. But, still, I wanted to know about her.
“Your family? Are they here?” That might give me a place to start, I thought.
“Have you come to these parts before, Mr. Van Driver?”
“Vasantha,” I said, and added, “I have driven up to Jaffna a few times now.”
“Then you must know that it is best not to ask about families. It is best not to ask about someone’s brother or father or mother or sister.”
“Why?”
She looked at me as if I were a lost cause. “After a war, it is best not to ask about the past.”
That is not true, I thought. After such a calamity, surely one should? How else will we know what really happened? And if we don’t know, will it not be repeated? At any rate, we should not let war or half-baked political decrees pervert our native habits of curiosity and easy engagement. But I didn’t say any of this. She did not seem in as conversational a mood as she had earlier, and even then she had hovered in some in-between place. Hospitality training, I imagine, helps you to mask your feelings with a smile and to polish that façade of pleasant well-being that Sri Lankans, our foreign visitors tell me, are so good at putting on. But in Miss Saraswati’s case the training was incomplete. She was not a natural. She could mask, but she couldn’t do the other thing. She had been named after the goddess of learning, but she seemed to believe that ignorance was bliss. When she turned toward the door, I noticed a thick scar where the skin had crumpled at the base of her neck. When she turned back, it slid under her collar and was hidden again.
In my room in the drivers’ quarters I sat with the door open. Some oil sticks had been lit along the veranda to ward off the mosquitoes. The only sound was the hum of the fluorescent tube farther along. Whenever I drive foreign visitors at night, out in the country, they always comment on how dark it is. I used to think, How could it be otherwise? But, having been told this so many times, I have begun to see things through their eyes, and for me, too, night outside Colombo now feels very dark. The blackness is like ink seeping through my eyes and into my head. What is happening inside me is no different from what is going on outside. That leads me to thoughts about death, which are pointless and help no one. The difficulty, then, is to think of something else. Sex, the antidote you grasp for in youth, is less engaging when you are cloistered in a driver’s room in the middle of nowhere; and politics, the other base impulse, is a bit of a nightmare these days. Crime—I mean stories about crime, not crime itself—works best, and I especially like crime stories that come from England or America. Bollywood has the edge on musicals, but Pinewood and [REDACTED] have cornered the criminal stuff. So a pirated DVD is a good solution, if you have the right gadget. I’ve been thinking about getting one of those portable players; I just need a few big tips to get me into a spending position.
But that night, in the inky blackness in Kilinochchi, all these other things began to merge together: politics, history, even sex, in the form of Miss Saraswati, where it was bound up with mutilation and death. We all have a private past, a store of thoughts, feelings, sensations, disappointments that nobody else will ever unearth. That’s just life. But in Miss Saraswati’s case, it seemed to me, there was something more deliberately hidden. Areas cordoned off. I suppose it was only natural. So much is kept off limits these days. There are things we don’t speak of, things we not only don’t remember but carefully forget, places we do not stray into, memories we bury or reshape. That is the way we live nowadays: driving along a road between hallucination and amnesia. As long as you are moving, you are O.K.—you have negotiated safe passage, for the moment. It is only when you come to a stop like this, in a black night in the middle of nowhere, that things wobble a bit and you wonder about the purpose of roads. You sit in the dark, frightened at the life you’ve led and the things you’ve left undone. You can only hope that in the long run it won’t matter, but that in itself is no consolation at all.
The staff quarters of the Spice Garden Inn, or at least the drivers’ rooms, had been built by a benevolent but misguided despot. The essentials were there: bed, table, chair, window, coir mat, electric light. The walls were painted. Yellow in my room, green next door. And yet there was something prisonlike in the air. The rooms had been designed by a person who would never stay in them himself, or perhaps herself. Each element was inoffensive, so it was difficult to say what the flaws were. All I knew was the difference I could feel between comfort and discomfort. The ideal and the disillusioning reality. From what I’ve heard, living in the [REDACTED] before perestroika was like that. You knew something was wrong, but you didn’t know how to make it right.
I stepped outside for a cigarette. I’m not much of a smoker, but there are times when I have the urge to fill my lungs with poison. If the damage is there, I want to invite it in. Make it mine so that I can do something with it.
Everywhere the edges blurred. I walked along the veranda on a narrow path between light and dark, then out into the garden, where I thought the darkness would consume me, but a tiny glimmer of light from the sky seemed to spread into a silvery web. And when I lit my cigarette there was more to contend with. After one or two drags, I put it out and waited. Then I saw her. She was on the main balcony of the hotel, a silhouette darker than the darkness, but unmistakably her. Looking out at the fields, like the guardian of an unquenchable dream. She slowly uncrossed her arms and bent down. When she straightened up again, she had something in her hand. It looked like a revolver, but when she clicked the catch a beam of light shot out. She ran it along the fence at the end of the garden and did a sweep around the pond. She caught the eyes of an animal and held the light on it for a few seconds, the beam as steady as a military searchlight. Then she switched it off, leaving the night darker than ever.
In the morning, I went and ate some bread and sambol, and waited for the Arunachalams to appear. I took a refill of tea that was a travesty, even by the standards of the previous night’s dinner, and sat on one of the garden chairs, from which I could see the breakfast room. I wondered how long Miss Saraswati had kept watch from the balcony and when she would resume her office duties.
I heard Mrs. Arunachalam before I saw her. She was complaining about her husband’s snoring, although I would have guessed that the reality of the bedroom situation was the reverse. Mr. Arunachalam said nothing in return. I thought of alerting him to the virtues of the sound-blocking headphones that many of my recent foreign clients sported. They heard nothing that they had not programmed themselves to hear and managed to avoid any pollution of their inner world with the din of local color. It was an admirable survival technique in a noisy world. Pollution is, after all, the world’s biggest problem. Even in [REDACTED], people apparently suffer from it.
The couple took a table on the veranda.
“I would like ham and eggs and toast. You think they have ham here?” Mrs. Arunachalam scraped her chair forward.
“What about a thosai? Better, no?”
“But I have this craving. And no sleep even, not with you and your trumpeting.”
Miss Saraswati appeared between them and said something I couldn’t hear. She seemed to manage to placate Mrs. Arunachalam without recourse to pork. When they had finished breakfast and gone upstairs to pack their toothbrushes and tweezers, or whatever, Miss Saraswati came out to me.
“You are a peacemaker as well,” I said.
“We do whatever it takes.” She gave me a card. “Bring all your tours here. We can cater for everyone.”
“I can see that,” I said. “Terrific training, your catering college.”
She put her hands together and lowered her head. This time, her collar was tightly buttoned and revealed nothing, but I noticed that the trigger finger of her right hand was callused and discolored at the edge.
Then Mrs. Arunachalam called me. “Driver, come here. Can you put this bag on the seat in there? I need it right next to me. And put the A.C. on before we get in, so it will be nice and cool for a change. I can’t be getting hot again.”
Miss Saraswati looked at me. I wanted her to smile, even that put-on smile, but her face was blank. Her black eyes gave nothing away. I wished for a moment that I knew what she was thinking, and then I was glad that I didn’t. There comes a point when you don’t want to know. 

