I’M the Meat, You’Re the Knife
By Paul Theroux
I was walking down High Street to the funeral home when I spotted Ed Hankey coming toward me. He said, “Jay,” then, “Guess who’s sick?,” then blinked and concluded, “Murray Cutler.”
Sometimes bad news takes the form of a greeting. I hadn’t seen Hankey for more than twenty years, and I assumed that this abrupt announcement was a tactic to overcome his awkwardness. So I didn’t want to reply by explaining that I was back in Medford Square after so long because my father had just died. Family tangles, bereavement, and failure send us home, seldom happiness. I was headed to Gaffey’s to meet my mother and my sister, to choose a coffin and arrange the viewing. Perhaps Hankey already knew about my father and was avoiding the subject by mentioning Murray Cutler.
When I asked, “How sick?,” Hankey said, “He’s at a hospice.” His lisp made the word juicier and more emphatic. He cocked his head to look at me, clamping his mouth shut and widening his eyes.
I took a deep breath and nodded, reflecting on the news. Murray Cutler had been our high-school English teacher. He was one of those people whose death, I knew, would be a problem for me. I was resigned to my father’s passing: we had no unfinished business, and he knew that I loved him. What I dreaded were the futile formulas of consolation from people who never knew him. I felt fragile in my grief, hypersensitive to sound. Voices on the car radio grated on me; so did music, so did pity.
I said, “Maybe I’ll go see him.”
“Visit the sick: one of the Corporal Works of Mercy,” Hankey said, and laughed. We’d been altar boys together, and we’d sat side by side in English class, where Murray Cutler was a tease—showing me two copies of an exam, saying, “This is mine and that is urine.” “Copper Knickers,” he said, “he of the heliocentric theory.” Cutler talked about the Huguenots simply so that he could call them the Huge Nuts. He had a gift for spotting his victim’s weakness.
Hankey was talking about his wife and his children, reminding me that he had married one of our classmates and saying how happy they were. Then, “I never knew Cutler very well. He was a funny guy.”
“I know,” I said. I wondered again whether to tell him that my father had died. But a death is not something you mention in passing to someone you run into. And it was better to keep these two dramas separate. Individually, they were tragedies; lumped together, they were merely news.
“Everyone said he was a wicked big influence on you.”
“In what way?”
“As a story writer and all that.”
When I didn’t reply, Hankey said, “He taught us the word ‘procrustean.’ All these years, I’ve never used it.”
“And ‘transpicuous.’ ”
“Whatever that means. You probably used that somewhere, eh?”
“Not yet.”
Hankey shrugged and said that the hospice was near the Winchester line, on South Border Road. “The Elms. Big old house. You can’t miss it.”
South Border Road, of all places, in the wooded Fells, where I’d spent so much of my innocent youth, where I’d left my innocence behind.
“Jay, we were worried about you,” my mother said as I entered the waiting room at Gaffey’s. She sat compactly, her hands clasped, my sister, Rose, next to her, both of them pale and stunned, as though waiting to see a doctor.
Rose said, “They’re getting the catalogue. For the caskets. It’s real stressful. I never thought . . . ,” but didn’t finish the sentence.
In that uncomfortable silence, I said, “I just bumped into Ed Hankey.”
“Oh?” my mother said, in a high, querying tone, her way of asking for details.
“He sent his regards. He asked how you were. He was sorry to hear about Dad.”
“Oh?” She wanted more.
Rose said, “I remember Eddie.”
I could not turn away from my mother’s imploring face. I said, “He claimed that when his father passed away his spirit lingered. Eddie could feel it in the house, and sometimes it seemed to be inside him. Unconsciously, Eddie started to be more like his father. Used the same expressions, adopted some of his father’s attitudes, was unusually frugal. It made him feel better.”
“I can relate to that,” Rose said.
“The memory of his father made him stronger. Helped him with decisions.”
My mother was dabbing her eyes with a balled-up tissue.
“Eddie was a nice-looking guy,” Rose said.
“Your father was so kind. He had no business sense.” My mother was clutching her leather handbag. “Now you have to take his place. You’re in charge now.”
They stared at me, bereft. I sat closer to them and said, “Don’t tell anyone I told you, but Eddie had a couple of funny stories about online dating, things going wrong.”
A sad smile floated across Rose’s lips.
“One of the women he met had posted a picture of her much prettier sister, wearing a tracksuit. She put a caption under it: ‘I like working out. Let’s get physical.’ But when Eddie met her she weighed about two hundred and fifty pounds. She ate a huge meal. He just sat there, dumbfounded.”
My mother said, “Oh?”
“Another one met him for drinks. He said she seemed nice, but a bit goofy. Anyway, they ordered some salads at the bar. Then a strange thing happened. This woman got a nosebleed, but didn’t seem to notice it. She says, ‘Is something wrong?’ ‘Yeah,’ Eddie says. ‘You’re bleeding into the Caesar salad.’ So she gets up and he figures she’s going to the ladies’ room. But he never saw her again!”
“Something druggy about nosebleeds,” Rose said, smiling broadly.
“God forgive me,” Mother said, holding her tissue to her mouth, laughing.
And then a solemn man in a dark suit appeared, and we were invited in to peruse the catalogue.
Driving the next afternoon, I moved through a map in my mind, from Bellevue Pond to Panther Cave to Wright’s Tower and the Sheepfold, until the shadow of Murray Cutler fell over my memory, and I realized that I was about to come face to face with the man after all these years. I had no idea what I would say to him, but I needed to see him before he died.
At a bend on South Border Road, an old house, fieldstone and brick, loomed from between tall trees, with a pair of heavy-lidded dormers on the roof and bosomy bow windows at the front, “The Elms: Hospice and Palliative Care” printed in green and gold on a swinging board at the entrance to the circular driveway: a family mansion converted into a medical facility.
Inside, at the periphery of the lobby area, a white-haired woman in a blue sweater sat at a desk behind a glass partition with a slid-aside window opening onto a counter, like someone selling bus tickets. She stood and, plucking her glasses from where they were resting on her head and dropping them onto the bridge of her nose, she leaned at me. The odor of new paint and fresh flowers in the lobby made me think of their opposites—decay and deception and death. They were sinister and obvious distractions, like the woman’s smile.
“Please sign in.” She indicated the visitors’ book. I was reminded of the leather-bound visitors’ book we had chosen at the funeral home the day before.
I flipped through the pages, searching the “Destination” column. Murray Cutler’s name did not appear anywhere.
“Mr. Cutler’s not getting many visitors.”
“Professor Cutler doesn’t have any family,” the woman said. Professor! “He’ll be glad to see you. He’s in two-two-eight. Stairs on the left.”
His door was closed. I tried the knob, pushing the door open slowly, then stepping into the inert body odor that hung in the small room like a sour, baggy presence. Murray Cutler lay in a bed facing the window, an elderly woman beside him bent over a book. She turned to me, frowning, looking punished.
“Sorry to interrupt.”
“You’re supposed to knock. I don’t appreciate it when people don’t knock.” She sighed and hoisted the book. “We’re reading this. I’m one of the volunteers.”
In this interval, Murray Cutler had not stirred. His head was canted to the side, his mouth open.
“I can take over from you.”
“He taught English at Medford High.” She glanced at him as though for approval. “Did he teach you?”
“Yes. He taught me how to tell stories.”
“He loves stories.”
“I have some for him.”
In a softer voice she said, “He’s got an awful lot of challenges.”
That was when he looked at me, not moving his head but lifting his eyes and remaining expressionless.
Although I hadn’t seen him since high school, I recognized him at once. Wasted, simplified, and revealed by illness, he was a skeletal caricature of himself: sickness shows us who we really are by making us too weak to pretend. He’d always been thin, but vain about his body. Teachers wore suits and ties back then. His suits had always been well cut and stylish.
Now his skin clung to his skull, a tissuey death’s head, yellowish, with dry, split lips. When he drew a breath, his eyes goggled from the effort. He looked weird and weightless on the bed, like a castaway adrift on a raft. Where there had been muscle in his arms, there was now slackened sinew, less like flesh than like old meat.
“I’ll leave him to you,” the woman said, rising from her chair and handing me the book.
“ ‘Desperate Journeys, Abandoned Souls.’ ” I read the title aloud and made a face.
“Stories of survival and heroism,” she said, buttoning her coat. “We’ve just done Alexander Selkirk.”
“ ‘Robinson Crusoe and his man Freddy—the perfect partnership,’ he used to say.” I looked to Cutler for a reaction, but there was none.
“He’s had a stroke. Well, a series of small strokes. His speech is impaired but his hearing is perfect,” the woman said at the door. “He has trouble with his eyesight, too, so please read to him or tell him a story.”
When she had closed the door behind her, I put my face close to his.
“Remember me?”
He seemed to strain to focus his yellow eyes on me, his mouth gaping. His clawlike fingers were folded on his chest. A needle was taped into the back of one hand and attached to a clear plastic tube.
“I was your student. Jay Justus.”
In a measured set of whispered gasps, he said, “Had so many students.”
“You told me I was special.”
This took a moment to register, but when it did he seemed to smile, as though I’d teased him, and he opened his mouth wider, showing me what was left of his teeth, discolored stumps and raw gums. He was ill, but I could see that there remained in his shrunken body a distinct intelligence, like an intimation of heat. I was convinced of it when he became impatient, and that spark kept me resolute.
“Story,” he said, urgently. Working his dry tongue, he looked reptilian.
“You used to loan me books,” I said.
Impatience surfaced on his bony face again, in his bulging yet unastonished eyes.
“You went to [REDACTED] one summer. You told us all about it. How the Mexican children called you papacito and followed you everywhere.”
He lifted his head as though to bat away my talk, and, slurring, he said, “Story.”
His saying the word gave me so much pleasure that I hesitated until he had repeated it two more times, chewing it in his insistence.
“This is a story about my friend in [REDACTED],” I said, and Murray Cutler smiled and looked content. “He was lonely. He lived on his own. He worked in a cubicle. He found it very hard to meet people. One day there was an earthquake, which happens now and then in [REDACTED]. He ran out of his office and found a doorway to stand in for protection. A young woman from his office had followed and cowered next to him. Can you picture it, the doorway framing them? As the tremors continued, he put his arm around her, not saying a word. She welcomed it—she was terrified by the earthquake, by the screams of the people on the street. My friend began kissing her, and, in her fear, she accepted this. When the earthquake was over, she still clung to him, and instead of going back to work he took her to his apartment and assaulted her.”
Murray Cutler seemed to listen with his mouth, opening it wider as though to understand better. When I stopped, he grunted with dissatisfaction.
“More,” he said.
“Another man, another time, another story. When a fire alarm went off at a hotel, this man found himself outside, in his pajamas and robe, standing next to a woman who was clearly very frightened. Firemen, hoses, sirens, men with axes. The woman recoiled from them. The man took the woman’s hand and drew her close and spoke to her in a reassuring way. Like him, she was staying alone at the hotel. Thirty minutes of this, and then the all clear was sounded—a false alarm. But the elevators weren’t working. The man helped her find the stairs and led her to her room. ‘I don’t know how to thank you,’ she said, as she unlocked the door. He was still holding her hand. He wouldn’t let go. He kicked her door open and said, ‘But I do.’ ”
I stopped talking, and, in the silence I’d created so that this might sink in, Murray Cutler said, in his gargly voice, “Why are you telling me this?”
“I’m Jay,” I said. “Remember me?”
I was not sure that it registered or that he knew who I was. I said, “I’ll be back.”
Two days went by, the days of the wake at Gaffey’s. I tried to stay in the background, as relatives filed in to greet my mother, to embrace her and remind her that she was a widow, to tell Rose what a great man our father had been.
My cousin Eva came up to me and said, “I dated a guy who was in Africa, like you. Middle of nowhere. His name was Charlie Saurin. He was a medic in one of those jungle clearings. No roads. The only way in was by small plane. He said that visitors made him feel lonely. Know how he survived it? He said, ‘When you don’t think about leaving, the place seems bigger.’ ”
“I used to fantasize about being in the bush like that. Isolated and in charge. The solitary bwana.”
“So where were you in Africa?”
Standing so close to my father’s casket, I could smell the heavy perfume of the flowers. He lay, his face lightly powdered, his cheeks rouged, his pale hands crossed over the handle of his Knights of Columbus sword. His presence, and that sword, cautioned me. He had been a practical man, who believed in the economy of the plain truth, who thought that fiction was folly and only jackasses and liars made up stories.
“I lived in a city—Kampala. I was a teacher at a good university. I had a nice house and a lot of friends. I had a cook from the coast, who was full of Swahili wisdom.”
“Sounds wild to me.”
“It was pretty tame.”
After they had closed the lid of the casket, and the last mourner had left, my mother went silent; she looked depleted. Rose sat next to her and bent to whisper something, but it seemed only to provoke tears and Mother’s clotted voice saying, “I don’t know if I can handle this.”
I went over to them. I said, “I just remembered another one of Eddie’s stories. He found a woman online, who said that she was single and looking to meet someone. They texted back and forth, sent pictures, and made a plan to go out to dinner.”
“Eddie’s a game guy,” Rose said. “You could take some tips from him, Jay. Maybe meet someone nice. What’s his thing?”
“Maybe he’s lonely,” I said.
Mother said, in a clear voice, “Did it work out?”
“He washed and waxed his car to make a good impression,” I said. “Then he drove to her house to pick her up. But, as he entered her driveway, a man jumped out of the bushes, yelling at him—a little guy, going ape.”
“Who was he?” Mother asked.
“Ex-husband. He’d been stalking her. The woman came to the door and screamed at her ex. He threw his shoe at her. Eddie said to her, ‘Hey, I didn’t sign up for this. Call him off.’ The guy rushed at him. Eddie told me, ‘I punted him into the next yard and drove off.’ ”
Mother was smiling. She said, “Good for him,” as Rose took her by the hand and led her away.
When I returned to the hospice the next morning, Murray Cutler looked weaker, vaguer, but hearing me speak he became attentive, as though the sound of my voice had woken a memory in him. If he did not remember me, at least he remembered my stories.
“Earthquake,” he said. He raised a skinny finger and poked it at me. “False alarm.”
In English class, if any of us pointed at him, or at anything, he’d say, “Be careful. There’s a nail on the end of that thing. That’s not ambiguous—what is it?” And he’d answer himself, “That’s transpicuous.”
“Story,” he said now, slurring again.
“O.K. I was in Africa, in a place so remote I could get there only by small plane in the wet season. I ran a clinic. This was in western [REDACTED], near the [REDACTED] border, the Ituri Forest. We were so deep in the bush that we had to be self-sufficient. The locals grew cassava and maize. I ate ugali and beans, and occasionally we killed a chicken. No one thought of leaving. Apart from the clinic, there was nothing, not even a school, and no church. The nearest mission was at Bundibugyo—and most people regarded that as the end of the earth. It was not a happy village, but it was resigned to its solitude. My contract at the clinic was for two years, but I agreed to another two. I liked being in the middle of nowhere. When you don’t think about leaving, a place seems bigger.”
Murray Cutler shifted his hands, clasping them. He looked satisfied, perhaps imagining the desolation of this African village.
“One day, over the patter of rain on my tin roof—a mournful tap-tap I loved so much that it sometimes put me to sleep—over that peaceful repetition, I heard a plane circling the grass landing strip. Usually a plane brought mail and medicine, but today it brought a big smiling white man named Charlie Saurin. This was a surprise. His first words were ‘Jambo, bwana—habari gani?’_ _” He seemed to want to make a point, speaking Swahili to me. Swahili was the lingua franca in this nowhere place. I said that I was fine, but that I wasn’t expecting him. ‘I was sent from Kampala. Mr. Bgoya’s orders. I’m here to help.’ Bgoya was a government minister. But what was I to do with Charlie Saurin? He was older than me, about forty-five, with a full head of prematurely gray hair, combed back and upswept in a way that made him seem conceited. I’m wary of men who are vain about their hair. They behave as though they were wearing a special hat. To keep him away from my bungalow and the clinic, I gave him the small house the pilot used when heavy rain kept him from taking off. That pilot, Bevan, once told me, ‘You don’t really know anyone until you’ve seen him drunk.’ ”
I repeated this to Murray Cutler to see whether he’d been listening. He nodded and smiled.
“I invited Charlie Saurin to my bungalow for drinks—locally brewed beer served from a plastic basin. He sipped it from the tin dipper, and though he still lapsed into Swahili from time to time—he was conceited about his fluency, too—he was more polite now, more solicitous, speaking to me slowly and deferentially.”
Becoming restless, Murray Cutler shifted in his bed and sighed. He said, “And the point is?”
“Whenever he was speaking from the heart, he said it in Swahili. Just before he staggered home, he paused, his hand on the doorknob, and said, ‘The history of mankind in four words: ‘Mimi nyama, wewe kisu.’ ”
“Whaaa?” Murray Cutler said, throwing his head back.
“Charlie Saurin started to teach classes, using his house as the school. You’d think this was a good thing, but it disrupted the rhythm of the village. The children weren’t free anymore to hoe the gardens or bring water from the stream. The parents began complaining about this to me. One of the aggrieved men brought his son, Junius, to see me. Junius said, ‘The bwana Mr. Charlie is taking me to [REDACTED].’ Junius’s father said that this was a tatizo kubwa—a big problem—and that Charlie Saurin’s behavior was a shauri, an issue.
“So I invited Charlie over to my bungalow again, but this time we didn’t drink—we ate. And I saw how he ate, English style, a fork in his left hand, a knife in his right, two deft hands at work, spearing the meat and cutting a small piece and then slicing a bit of cassava and adding that to the fork and, lastly, plastering some limp greens to it and lifting the whole business to his mouth. That told me more than his drunkenness had, and I remembered what he’d said.”
“What did he say?” Murray Cutler murmured, letting his head fall again.
“Mimi nyama, wewe kisu. I’m the meat, you’re the knife.”
His head fell back on the pillow and he worked his lips, as though tasting what I’d just told him.
“The boy, Junius, told the other children that he was going to [REDACTED]. I heard them repeating it at the clinic. I was too busy to pay much attention to the school, but I sometimes saw Charlie Saurin walking with the children past the gardens to the edge of the bush, sometimes singly, sometimes in groups.”
I fixed my eyes on Murray Cutler.
“I knew he was trifling with the students, either with promises or with actual deeds. But there was nothing I could do. The students felt familiar toward him, they hung around his house, and they were so convinced of his affection for them that they began to take liberties with his house, his food, some of his possessions. It was the casual, entitled way of rural Africa—after all, he had a great deal, and they had nothing.”
Murray Cutler closed his eyes, and I stopped speaking. He opened them again and seemed disappointed that I was still sitting by his bed.
“When he discovered that they were stealing his things, he was enraged. How dare they take advantage of him! He stopped teaching. He told them that no one was going to [REDACTED] with him, least of all Junius, who had stolen his alarm clock. The next time the mail plane came to our clearing in the bush, he got on board and left. He said that the village had destroyed him. But, of course, it was the village that was destroyed, or at least corrupted. No one was the same after the visit of Charlie Saurin. The villagers began to resent me, and now spoke of wanting to leave their home, though there was no easy way out.”
Murray Cutler was squinting at me. He snatched at the cord that hung beside his bed, and stabbed at the button to call the nurse.
“This one man ruined everything with his meddling intrusion,” I said, staring at him in defiance. I got up from the chair and left the room before the nurse arrived. His last expression was one of uncertainty, perhaps fear. As always, I was relieved to breathe the sweet air outside the hospice.
Mother said, “Is there something wrong?” when I saw her that evening, alone in her house. Rose had gone to see to the arrangements for the funeral, at St. Ray’s.
“I’m fine. I’m glad I’m here.”
Mother seemed doubtful. The way she sat, knees together, slightly hunched, she looked like a peasant on a hillside weathering a storm.
“This is where I was born,” I said. “That’s an amazing fact to me. I’ve been everywhere, and yet this is the only place on earth where I truly belong.”
“Oh?” She looked up, hopefully.
“It’s kind of humbling to realize that.” Mother didn’t seem to hear me. I said, “Did you ever hear the expression ‘Forgiveness is final’?”
“What does that mean?”
“This is what it means. Another writer I know found out that a man who’d hurt him was suffering a terminal illness. The writer was down on his luck, not much happening in his life, vulnerable to any slight. He had always resented the man who’d hurt him, but when he visited the man he said, ‘I forgive you.’ ”
“What did the man say to that?”
“He couldn’t speak. He looked like he’d been slapped in the face. He was disarmed. There was nothing he could do. Because forgiveness is final.”
“That’s beautiful,” Mother said, and took my hand. “I’ll cherish that lovely thought. You could write about that.”
I looked away. I said, “And I keep meeting old friends here. Some of them are having health issues. I feel that I can be useful.”
“You’ve always been kind that way, Jay.”
I returned the following day. Murray Cutler looked at me with dread when I entered the room, but he was too inarticulate to object, unable to do anything but watch me seat myself and stare. He was the helpless one now.
“I knew a couple, very creative woman, very entrepreneurial man, partners in the trucking business.” Just the sound of my voice made Murray Cutler clench his fingers in fear. “They split up. She said to me, ‘You have no idea. He was always hearing voices. His mother visited him in his office. The voices said, “Stab her in the eye! Stab her in the eye!” ’ He explained this in detail to his wife. ‘You need to know.’ His father had died in a plane crash. He refused ever to get on a plane, but that was all right—his business involved freight in long-haul trucks. His other quirk was that he had to take thirty steps whenever he entered a room, so if a room used up only twenty steps he marched in place for ten more, but very subtly. I asked her, ‘What was the attraction?’ She loved him. She told me, ‘He had the charm that all psychopaths have.’ ”
In the time it took me to tell this story, the tension left Murray Cutler’s body, and when I finished he said in his usual mutter, with a half smile, “What’s the point?”
“No one knew that he was crazy.” I shifted to be closer to him. I said in a harsh whisper, “Only she suffered, and when she told her story no one believed her. But I believed her. And, as for the man, his punishment—he still heard the voices.”
The door opened—one of the nurses pushing a trolley with food trays on it. I was near enough to Murray Cutler to murmur without being overheard, “I’ll see you in two days.”
The day of my father’s funeral was so scripted, and adhered so closely to the script, that it was as though his death were the fulfillment of a long-term plan, and this was the last act in the ritual. I was grateful for that, for the numbingly routine sequence of events: the chanting priest, the vases of flowers, the candle flames, the kind words, and then the casket on wheels, the silent hearse sliding importantly to the cemetery, where the muddy hole had been thoughtfully disguised with a rectangle of purple satin fringed with gold ribbon. There were more prayers, more flowers, and then another procession, the withdrawal, all of it expected. We were sad, but no one cried. The nature and purpose of a ritual is to meet expectations; it is the unexpected that is upsetting.
Murray Cutler cringed when I appeared the following afternoon, later than I usually visited. He must have thought with relief that I was not coming. Then to see me at the end of the day, when he was tired, and to have to hear another story was demoralizing to him. He tried to cover his face as I pulled the chair close to his bed and began speaking.
“I knew a woman who visited [REDACTED] on vacation,” I said. “A man stopped her on a back street in [REDACTED], where she’d been buying souvenirs. He said, ‘I had a dream last night of Jesus Christ. Jesus said to me, “You must go to this particular street. There you will meet a beautiful woman.” And here you are.’ When she turned to get away, a man in a doorway said, ‘Come here. I will help you,’ and the woman fled into his house. The man locked the door and raped her. And, when he was done, the other man was waiting to do the same.”
Murray Cutler raised his arms as though to defend himself and cowered behind a tangle of plastic tubes.
“Raped her,” I said, leaning over and showing him my teeth.
Sitting beside my grieving mother, helping her answer the condolence notes took almost a week. My father had many elderly friends, and none of them used a computer. Rather than send a printed card as thanks for these spidery scrawls, my mother felt—and I agreed—that it was best to write individual replies that reflected each person’s degree of intimacy with my father. It was a sensitive business, but it brought my mother and me closer. When she grew weary, she put her hand on my arm as I was writing, improving her responses to these people, and said, “Everything’s going to be all right.”
Murray Cutler was much worse the next time I saw him.
I locked the door to the room, and he groaned when I sat down and started to speak.
“There was a man I knew who, when he lusted after someone and didn’t want to be caught, pawed his prey in public places—in the bleachers at baseball games, in the back rows at concerts, in campgrounds. He possessed a victim by caressing him openly, looking like a dear friend and benefactor, and that was the paradox, because the victim was too fearful to make a scene. And when the victim went home he couldn’t report what had happened. He had to make up a story. In his stories, he was not a victim. He was triumphant. He invented dramas and dialogue. He became such an expert at evasion that the oblique habit of storytelling became his profession.”
Murray Cutler had never looked more like meat. He tried to turn away, but he was too weak. “But one story always stood for another. What he invented was actually the truth,” I said. “Now you tell me a story.”
I sat watching him and it was as if a succession of episodes were running through his mind, all their cruel details twitching on his face.
I returned to my old room in my mother’s house. I relived all the hopes and fantasies one experiences in a childhood bedroom. I suffered the familiar ceiling, the walls, the window, as if it were a cell where I’d served a sentence and now was confined again. I hardly stirred from the house for a week, and then went out only to accompany Mother to the cemetery. “I want to visit Dad,” she said at breakfast that day, cutting a sausage, then putting down her knife.
We were standing at the grave when Mother said, “Your old teacher Murray Cutler died. It was in the paper.”
I couldn’t speak.
“Dad respected him so much. He was a Harvard graduate, you know. Dad was so proud when he took you under his wing. What’s wrong?”
I had begun to cry, sniffling, then sobbing with an odd hopeless honk of despair.
“He thought the world of you,” she said. “Dad knew that. He used to talk about it to me.” And then she was comforting me. “Go on, let it out, Jay. I know how much he meant to you.” 

