All Ahead of Them
By Tobias Wolff
“It’s all a misunderstanding,” he said. “I’m just on my way somewhere. I’ll call you later. O.K.?” His mouth was so dry he could hardly get the words out, and he heard the strain in his brother’s voice as they said their goodbyes.
He closed the phone and laid it on the bedside table. The French doors were open, and he could see a slice of the harbor above the balcony railing. The mattress squeaked as he rocked to his feet. He walked outside and stood at the railing. He wanted a cigarette, but he’d promised to quit after the wedding, and had managed to keep his word so far, despite the half-full pack of Gitanes forgotten by a previous guest in the bottom drawer of the dresser. Late sunlight glittered on the water and brightened the hulls of the boats in the marina. A pair of paisley pajama bottoms hung from a clothesline on the roof across the street, the legs dancing madly in the gusty breeze. He and Arden had laughed at the spectacle barely an hour ago; now he found it unsettling, humanly desperate.
He had understood, even as he used the word “misunderstanding”—always mealy on the tongue, always prelude to an alibi—that there’d been no misunderstanding. Which meant that his wife of six days was a liar and a thief. Well.
Well, well, well.
A vein throbbed in his forehead; his tongue felt gritty. He lowered himself into one of the deck chairs and drank from the glass of water he’d left on his guidebook. The ice had melted, leaving a metallic taste. The cover of the guidebook was damp from the sweating glass. He wiped it on his pant leg and opened to the page he’d been reading. A few moments later, he shut the book; the words were swimming on the page. He lowered the back of the chair and closed his eyes, hoping to calm himself, but instead he saw himself from a distance, striking this easy pose, performing relaxation. For whom? For himself, to demonstrate how little shaken he was? The sense of being ridiculous made him sit forward sullenly, legs on either side of the chair. A Motorino whined in the street below.
Minutes ago, before the call, he had been planning tomorrow’s walk to Vernazza. It was what he and Arden had come here to do, hike the cliff-side trails from village to village, and he had almost lost himself in plotting their route, looking for good beaches, picking likely restaurants. He’d been able to make love that morning for the first time since the wedding, and could just begin to contemplate the week to come without a cramp of dread.
He’d had this trouble with Arden a few times before, but he’d assumed that it would pass once the anxieties of getting married were behind them. Arden was being O.K. about it, “understanding,” even though she didn’t understand—how could she, when he didn’t understand? He knew that she was trying to make it easier for him, but when she told him not to worry, that it happened to men “all the time,” he was not reassured. Her sympathy was withering enough, but all the time? Where did that come from? The wisdom of others, he hoped. But what sort of conversation would invite those others to make such a revelation? Would he himself become fodder for “sharing” over drinks on some girls’ night out, or during one of Arden’s cooking classes? The very thought of it unmanned him. Arden hadn’t given up, but in her attempts to rouse him he had begun to suspect something beyond concern, even beyond impatience: boredom. “It’s O.K., Bud,” she’d said last night, when all had failed. “Let’s get some sleep.”
His name was Thomas, and he liked to think of himself as Thomas, but everyone called him Bud. Not even Tom, just Bud, ever since he was a baby, apparently because an aunt of his had said that he looked just like a bud in his little green onesie. The nickname had begun to grate as time went on, especially from people who didn’t know him well, as if they’d called him Mac or Pal. Though he knew they didn’t mean to presume, it affected him that way. Arden could imbue the name with tenderness, but she could also, as on the night before, sound like a stranger turning down the offer of a drink.
Arden wasn’t her real name. She’d created it by flipping her given name backward. She had been named after her father’s mother, Nedra, who’d been sentenced to twenty-five years in prison for selling marijuana to other teachers in the [REDACTED] high school where she taught music. This was back in the seventies, under the Rockefeller laws. She had hanged herself in her cell after three years. A beautiful woman, everyone said, a talented pianist and singer. Arden’s father had been a young boy when Nedra was taken away, and never got over it. Above the fireplace he kept an oil portrait of her, copied at some expense from a photograph. He still couldn’t talk about her without getting choked up.
 
So they had this in common, Arden and Bud—both of them known by names that weren’t really theirs, though of course he’d been saddled with his, and she had chosen hers. He didn’t blame her. Arden was a beautiful name, a poetic name. In fact, he had been interested in her even before they met, just from hearing some mutual friends talk about her. And when those friends brought them together for dinner she somehow was Arden, willowy, formal, old-fashioned, in a crushed-velvet dress and high boots, her heart-shaped face framed by strands of dark hair that kept escaping from the bun she wore. She had an air of innocence and sincerity that touched him. She seemed unworldly, more spirit than flesh, and he still found himself hesitant to approach her, to take her—afraid of seeming crass, hungry, merely carnal. He was careful with Arden, slow, gentle, but afterward he sometimes sensed a disappointment in her that made him feel rough and clumsy.
Arden’s change of name had hurt her father, who still insisted on calling her Nedra—even, despite the pleas of his daughter and his wife, when giving his meandering, tearful toast at the wedding reception. There had been puzzled looks on the faces of some of the guests, as if they’d wandered into the wrong party, and Thomas realized that his bride had kept her given name secret from many of them, even close friends from college and the clinic where she worked as a speech therapist. She’d been in no hurry to tell him, either. He’d found out only when going to meet her parents for the first time. She had briefed him in the car on their way to the house—the story of her name, her grandmother’s prison sentence and suicide, all accounted for in a cool, flat recital of the facts during the last few minutes of the drive. “So when Dad calls me Nedra, that’s why,” she said as he pulled to the curb. She got out of the car and waved at someone. Thomas sat there in a daze until she rapped on the roof of the car. “Come on, Bud. They’re waiting.”
Whenever they visited Arden’s family, Thomas found himself studying the portrait of her grandmother. He’d smoked some weed in high school and college. Not much—it made him unpleasantly self-conscious, tongue-tied—but he didn’t see any great harm in it, certainly not enough to lock someone up, as they used to do, just for having a few joints. But Nedra had more than a few joints when they busted her—she had a pound of the stuff, and precision scales, and special baggies, and several thousand dollars in an account hitherto unknown to her husband.
She’d been an actual dealer. An ambitious dealer, too, expanding her customer base to young professors in the local colleges, though that hadn’t come out until after her death, and the repeal of the laws. She got busted after the vice-principal of her school ran a red light after a Christmas party, and the cop saw a fat spliff roll out of the glove compartment when the poor man opened it to show his registration. Stoned, hysterical, he immediately offered up Nedra, and that was that.
The portrait fascinated Thomas. Nedra was looking down at a Siamese cat in her lap, and, yes, she was beautiful, but not in the ethereal way that Arden was beautiful. Her hair was short and blond, almost white, and her nose slightly upturned, where Arden’s was aquiline. She wore a short-sleeved shirt, and her arms were plump, rounded, both wrists circled with gold bracelets. Her lips were painted a deep red. Musician and purveyor of marijuana she might be, but there was nothing of the artistic hippie about Nedra. In fact, she looked sort of Republican, in the way of his own grandmother and his aunts and their friends, a type he’d always been attracted to—women who smoked and drank cocktails and wore glittering rings and perfume and mink coats, which he liked to hang up for them, stroking the fur that somehow brought in the cold on winter nights. Nedra was smiling down at the cat, and Thomas couldn’t help seeing something secretive in that smile, something withheld and power-giving, and maybe not so nice. And he liked that—liked knowing how different Nedra had been from what she seemed. A dealer . . . An outlaw! But he understood that he was probably reading things into the portrait.
Thomas had packed his father’s old Army Zippo. Just out of sentiment—he was definitely quitting. He fetched it, then took the pack of Gitanes from under his shirts, tapped a cigarette out, and rolled it between his thumb and forefinger. It was dry, stale. He went back onto the balcony and propped his elbows on the railing. The lighter flared at the first roll of the flint. He roasted the tip of the cigarette over the tall oily flame, relishing the faint crackle of the leaves. The first drag went right to his head. He closed his eyes. He felt himself swaying a little. Oh, but it was good. He took another hit off the cigarette and opened his eyes to the astonishing sight of the pajama bottoms performing a cancan—one leg up and down, then the other, again and again. He laughed in spite of himself. His dizziness passed. He went on smoking and thinking, darkly. One last drag, and he flicked the cigarette down toward the empty lane. It landed on an awning. Metal, fortunately. That would’ve made his day, burning the hotel down. Wasn’t he the lucky one!
So, the misunderstanding. What to do? Libby, his brother’s wife, never had her fingers off the phone. She texted while doing crossword puzzles, throwing a Frisbee for their neurotic Weimaraner—even changing diapers. By now, everyone in the family probably knew. Jenny and Claire, the other bridesmaids, lived downstate, and Libby hadn’t met them before the wedding, but she could track them down. Maybe she already had. What would they think? They’d been Arden’s roommates at Skidmore, her closest friends. And Libby, tireless busybody though she was, had a good heart. She’d taken Arden under her wing, treated her like a sister—even helped her plan the wedding. But of course it was Libby who’d discovered the crime, and now she was on the warpath.
Arden had picked out the dresses for her bridesmaids at a shop Libby had recommended. The dresses cost more than five hundred dollars each, which seemed a ridiculous sum to Thomas but was apparently not out of bounds for the fancy wedding they were having. Libby and Jenny and Claire seemed to take the price in stride; they deputized Arden to buy the dresses for them and paid her back without a squeak. And the dresses were beautiful, Thomas had to admit that. In fact, the word that came to him was “stunning.” It seemed a woman’s kind of word, so he didn’t say it, but he thought it when he saw the three women together in the church, excited, weepy, glowing in emerald-green silk that rustled as they danced attendance on their cool ivory queen. He’d been happy to admire what he hadn’t had to pay for, though he knew he’d have found the dresses less appealing if they’d cost him five hundred bills.
The problem was that they hadn’t cost Arden five hundred bills, either. That was the original price, still on the tags when she sent them to Libby and Jenny and Claire, but the dresses had been marked down by half when she bought them. Libby had taken hers back to the shop after the wedding for some minor adjustment, and the chatty owner had unwittingly exposed Arden’s scam.
Two hundred and fifty each. Seven-fifty altogether. Not exactly peanuts, but hardly a killing, either. The senior partners in his law firm made that much in an hour. He wasn’t doing badly himself, and would do even better as time went on, and Arden had been given a nice bump in pay just two months ago. So why do it? It couldn’t have been about the money; it was something else, a sort of impulse, or itch. For what? The tingle of risk? Of stepping over the line? A sort of adventure, maybe. The release of something held in, perhaps her very self.
Thomas’s mother had told him of a recurrent dream, in which she woke in her own bed, in her own house, and descended the stairs to find a strange man sitting at her kitchen table; he was wearing a military uniform and bore a livid scar across one cheek. Upon seeing her in the doorway he rose, and greeted her as his wife, approaching her with arms outstretched. She’d told Thomas this story twice, both times with a bemused smile. Now he felt as if he had somehow entered such a dream himself. Who was she? Who was this woman? 
It was shocking. That is, he supposed he should be shocked. But here was the fact, stipulated: he wasn’t shocked. Embarrassed, to be sure, but not shocked. That seemed odd to him. He had to wonder, Why not? And this question brought to mind the stories that Arden told when she showed up late for a dinner or a movie or just about anything—she was always late, and always had a story. Thomas accepted these often flimsy narratives as a form of apology; in his limited experience, beautiful women did not generally feel obliged to make excuses. And there was something endearing about Arden’s inventions. A woman had slipped on a patch of ice, and she’d had to wait until the ambulance came. Her office door had locked behind her, with the keys inside, while the security guard was on break. One night, having kept Thomas pacing outside a concert hall for more than half an hour, she told him that she’d had to give a client a ride home, because his car had been stolen from the clinic lot—then she repeated the excuse a few months later, in pretty much the same words. It was as if she didn’t expect him to believe her, as if it were part of a game he’d bought into—as he guessed he had, because he never called her on any of it.
No. That would have spoiled what he took to be an understanding between them: that she could spin transparent yarns and he would indulge her, would even be amused by their transparency. This arrangement afforded him the pleasure of a silent, paternal chuckle, while keeping things honest between them—with Arden weaving her tales and knowing, as she did so, that he understood them to be concoctions and would forgive her little deceptions in light of her willingness to offer him alibis. Or so he’d imagined.
But what if he’d been wrong? What if she thought that he believed her? Thomas shook out another cigarette and let it dangle unlit from the corner of his mouth. The breeze was dying, the sky darkening into evening. The pajama legs hung listless from the line, now and then giving a little ripple as if in a faint memory of the dance they’d performed.
Could she actually think he was buying her stories? He wouldn’t have thought it possible, except . . . well, except that he saw that it was possible. There was the night in April when she got her raise and insisted on taking him to dinner at Bistro Claude. Flushed with the praise she’d received from the clinic’s director, she was unusually, indelicately hungry; she kept the waitress running for this dish and that dish, a demi of Bordeaux to follow the bottle they’d drunk, dessert, coffee, brandy. He’d never seen her so voracious. They had left the restaurant and were about to cross the street when their waitress came running out and called to them. They stopped. It was cold, and the waitress, in a white silk blouse, hugged herself as she came toward them.
“Was there something wrong with the service?” she asked. Her eyes were on Arden, her face pallid under the street light. “Was the service not up to your standard?”
“The service was fine,” Arden said.
“So—fine is not worth a tip?”
Arden turned to Thomas. “You didn’t leave the tip?”
“No. I thought—” He shook his head. “My fault. What was the bill?”
The waitress named the sum, and Thomas gave her a couple of twenties—almost thirty per cent. She took them without a word and returned to the restaurant.
“I thought you left the tip,” Arden said, looking straight at him. “Doesn’t the man always do that?”
He had believed her, or, at least, had managed to think he believed her. So why did that night come back to him so vividly now? There was something there that didn’t make sense, that he’d skated over, let go, given how easy and sure she’d been, as if the mistake really had been his. But when she’d paid the bill she hadn’t told him what it came to, so how could he have known what the tip should be? It was of a piece with this dress business, and, when you got right down to it, with certain other things: the handicapped-parking sticker she’d somehow got her hands on, the years-overdue library books—little things, nothing much by themselves but making a sort of rhyme when you put them together.
Thomas was not shocked, or, in fact, surprised. He was even a little relieved, strange as that seemed. He understood that he must have known all along. Now he was free of the work of pretending to himself that he didn’t know.
So. How to explain this dress business? Because it was up to him to produce an explanation, and in such a way that the matter would be put to rest. And in a way that left Arden unaware that she’d been found out, so that she would not avoid his family or feel awkward in their presence. And she must not know that he had handled it—that he knew. She would never forgive him for knowing.
He could not risk losing her. He had pledged himself, and not only in the words of the ceremony. When he’d first met Arden, she was engaged to an art dealer, a rich man, Austrian. She had thrown all calculation aside in leaving him for Thomas, a fledgling lawyer, a former social worker. And married him! He’d wondered if he was equal to her trust in him. Well, by God, he was. He was.
He could come up with a story for Libby and the others. He could say that he himself had picked up the dresses and forgotten to mention the sale to Arden, that she had billed them according to the price still indicated on the tags. O.K., not that story, maybe, but something like it that had at least a decent possibility of being true. Whatever he came up with would be supported by the evidence of the money he’d send them. And of course he would beg them not to mention his embarrassing mistake to Arden.
He would draw the funds from his account, not yet merged with Arden’s, and then open another, at a different bank, so that he could write other such checks, as occasion required; for there would surely be other occasions as the years went on, other confusions, misunderstandings, to be explained and smoothed over and set right with a roll of the old green, generously fattened to keep things “between ourselves,” so that his wife wouldn’t find out. The mistake would be his, always his.
He could see the two of them years from now, sitting in the stands of some middle-school gym, while their son ran up and down the court on skinny legs, or their daughter’s choir sang inspirational songs. He would look at his beautiful wife and know, and be glad in his knowledge, and in her certainty of his innocence.
That bad girl. Where was she? She’d gone out to do some shopping; how long could that take? He took the cigarette from his lips, held it over the railing as if to drop it, then lit it. He paced the balcony and smoked. Nedra would come back laden with packages. She would model the clothes for him, changing in front of him, taking things off, bending over, as he watched; he would demand it. She would hear the thickness in his voice, and hesitate, and smile. He knew that smile, he could see it—his mother’s smile as she remembered the scarred stranger in her kitchen, and how she’d entered his embrace. 

