From a Farther Room
By David Gilbert

After dubious sleep, Robert Childress woke up feeling like crap. Not a surprise. The night before, he had gone out with Stearns, to a steak joint in midtown, where they split a massive porterhouse along with two types of potato, onion rings and creamed spinach, shrimp cocktails to start, plus other cocktails, and bread and wine, profiteroles for dessert, and finally a complimentary plate of cookies, after which Stearns happily—thank God—picked up the tab. A possible trip to a gentleman’s club was mentioned, like in the old days, Stearns said, which was a joke, since Stearns was single and still lived in those days. But not Childress. Childress was married and suburbanized in North Salem, and even though this was a Friday in October and his wife and three kids were visiting the in-laws for the weekend, and Becka herself had suggested this boys night out—“Call Stearns and have some stupid fun”—the idea of strippers was not very appealing. A lap dance would go bust on his stomach, his boner as ludicrous as a raised pinkie. Oh, Stearns tried to sway him with a V.I.P. card pulled from his wallet, but he had to settle for one more drink at a bar around the corner, where he talked endlessly about his dad, this great gregarious guy who had suddenly clammed up in the face of cancer. Childress offered vague yet heartfelt sympathy, avoiding talk of his own troubles, like the stubborn premonitions of fading love, or the less than robust bank account. Alert the media: unhappy, middle-aged white man on the loose. After two beers, the two friends parted. Strippers would have been easier.

Childress—without Stearns, just plain old Robert—contemplated rushing for the 12:01 train, but then he spotted a white stretch limo trolling for fares and decided to ask about a trip north. The quoted price was absurd, but Robert managed to haggle it down to merely outrageous and jumped in. Halfway home, he discovered the depressing truth of riding alone in a white stretch limo. Thank God Roscoe went nuts upon his arrival. Dumb happy beast. For ten minutes Robert tossed him a tennis ball in the back yard, throwing it as far as he could—in high school, Robert was an excellent fielder, though a hopeless hitter—and every time that Roscoe returned from the darkness with that slob of yellow lodged in his mouth it seemed a small miracle. Good boy. Robert grabbed those ears, kissed that forehead. Good fucking boy. It wasn’t until he collapsed into bed that he realized just how drunk he was: everything started to spin, even with a foot kickstanded to the floor. Instead of sleep, survival was the goal. Relax and breathe. Remain still. Despite these efforts, somewhere in the middle of the night Robert Childress leaned over the side of the bed and threw up.

And now the digital read 7:06.

The sad part: this was sleeping late.

Robert heeled his hands against his eyes—deeper still, against those sockets—and moaned in an almost ritual performance of hangover. This is my body, fucked. And it seemed as if he had smoked a pack instead of the single butt grubbed from that twentysomething on [REDACTED]. “Fuck cancer,” he’d told her, his exact meaning unclear. There was a brief worry that he might never feel good again. His head had all the charm of an empty container of ice cream. Had he really got so drunk? Because he thought he had been good. No tequila, no cocaine. No strippers. One lousy cigarette. Robert spent a few moments threading together the end bits of the previous night—Stearns and his dying father, Stearns and his big old Stearns hug—then he flashed onto the limo and figured he must have been drunk. Even worse was the dreaded possibility of a hundred-dollar tip.

Robert closed his eyes on competing images: a noose being tossed over a beam; a muzzle being pressed to his temple. Not that Robert had any overt desire to kill himself—he had no barn, no pistol. It was just that the idea of suicide provided an almost practical comfort, like the thought of a vacation to a distant island from which you never came back. He was in the process of sinking into that warm sand when he heard a noise—specifically, a whimper—coming from the foot of Becka’s side of the bed. It was Roscoe. Maybe he was hungry. Maybe he needed to go out. Maybe he just missed Becka, the master of them all. “Yeah, O.K., boy, O.K.,” Robert muttered, and he patted the bed in the hope of bribing the dog with the rare privilege of curling up beside him. But there was no leap, and the noise persisted. God damn it. Robert allowed himself a brief vision of waking clearheaded tomorrow. He’d go running. He’d read the entire Sunday paper. He’d even try to tackle the—Roscoe started to growl. “You’ve got to be kidding me.” Then Roscoe barked. Before Robert could muster the strength to throttle the dog, the sound of crying, high-pitched and breathless, came from the vicinity of the floor. Robert sat up without actually sitting up. What the hell? Had Roscoe dragged in some creature from the woods? Was something dying right there on the rug, half ripped apart? Waaaaaaaaaaa. And the rug was new. Fucking Roscoe. Fucking goddam dog.

All this projected hassle finally gave way to Robert rolling to the other side of the bed, this movement spurring a memory of the battle against nausea before the fast humiliating defeat, but at no point did Robert recall throwing up anything quite like this: it was about the size of an eggplant, though in color more reddish brown, its body a mishmash of textures and lumps, a goulash molded into a ghoul. There was a shape that resembled a head, plus four distinct parts that roughly corresponded with two arms and two legs, further articulated by an assumption of ten fingers and ten toes, presently wriggling. Robert winced. His feelings of disgust were still confined within the narrative of the dog, though Roscoe looked equally stumped. Regardless, this thing was unhappy. It flailed about as though tormented by a thousand stings. Despite the obvious freakishness of the situation, a dim sympathy arose within Robert as the surreal backed into the practical, the impossible losing its singular meaning. This was no dream. This was a life, however struck. Before Robert could come up with a proper plan, Roscoe jumped in with all the passion of his breed and turned those cries into even worse screams.

Robert continued to call until Stearns picked up.

“What time is it?” His throat sounded crumpled with dollar bills.

“Around eight-fifteen.”

“It’s Saturday morning, you realize.”

“Yeah, yeah, hey—”

“You missed quite a night.”

“You kept on going?”

“Wasn’t even midnight,” Stearns said.

Robert allowed himself a quick glance toward the bed, where the thing from the floor now lay swaddled in a towel. Fortunately, Roscoe had a soft mouth, and Robert had acted—“Give, give!”—before any real damage could be done, rushing it into the bathroom and using a washcloth to clean its, well, its body, he supposed. It weighed only a few slippery pounds, its most distinct feature being its mouth, essentially a nest for that quivering tongue, the remainder of its face falling under the guise of guesswork, those slits likely eyes, those outcroppings ears. There was no nose, only a nostril smear. Still, Robert found himself rocking the thing until it settled down, after which he wrapped it in a towel and noticed that it was most definitely a male of its species. “I’m curious,” he said to Stearns. “How’re you feeling?”

“Like crap.”

“But your stomach, how about your stomach?”

“Like a fat shit—nothing new there.”

“Because I got kind of sick.”

“What, like throw-up sick?”

Robert looked toward the bed again. “Yeah, I think.”

“You think? And how do you think you’re feeling now?”

“Kind of weird,” Robert said.

“Like you might throw up again?”

The towel started to stir.

“I hope not,” Robert said. He wondered if he should try to explain things to Stearns, but where to start, and what to say, and, once the inkling was given weight, when would madness set in? Um, there’s a chance I vomited up a baby last night, a severely deformed baby but a baby nonetheless. A boy, I think.

“I didn’t eat anything different from you, right?” Robert asked as sweat unstitched his hairline.

“Yeah, you don’t sound so good,” Stearns said.

“I’m kind of in a fucked-up place.”

“You should call the restaurant and complain.”

“Well—”

“I’ll call the restaurant. For what we paid, it’s not right.”

The stirring grew more agitated. There was obvious frustration on that bed, a rooting about that Robert recognized from years ago. This thing was hungry. The food needed food. Robert backed toward the bathroom.

“Childress?” Stearns said.

“Huh?”

“I said do you want me to come up? I got nothing going on today and a drive in the country would do me some good. I could bring you real chicken soup and proper bagels. You got ginger ale? That’s what my mom always gave me. We could also smoke some pot—for purely medicinal reasons, of course.”



“No,” Robert said quickly, even though this was Stearns at his best, the go-to guy when you were in trouble, who would drop everything to help, this terrible asshole a hero to a hundred friends. But even Stearns would be repulsed by this. “I mean, no thanks,” Robert amended less sharply.

“You sure?”

“Positive.”

A testing cry came from the bed, followed by a shriek that seemed almost peristaltic, its grip and release pushing consciousness through the grimmest of openings. An awful thought came to Robert: What if I throw up again and somehow produce its sibling?

“What’s that noise?” Stearns asked.

“Um, birds.” Robert stepped into the bathroom.

“Does Westchester have pterodactyls now?”

Robert closed the door and took a defensive position, remaining perfectly still and listening for signs of approach. On the phone, Stearns was saying something about cockatoos in [REDACTED] and how they’re pests and loud as shit, nothing exotic about them, and Robert realized that his friend would probably go on talking until he was actively disengaged.

“Remember that show ‘Baretta’—”

“Stearns?”

“Yeah?”

“I gotta go.”

Robert hung up, gripped the phone to his chest like a missionary his Bible. There must be an answer, he thought, but all reason was overwhelmed by helplessness adrenalized, as if the bathroom were plummeting from thirty thousand feet. Robert had always pictured himself calm in a crisis, the person with the wherewithal to comfort the kid travelling alone. “It’s going to be O.K.,” he would say, hand on shoulder, his years of expecting the worst having prepared him for this moment. On good days, this reflex seemed almost Buddhist. Becka, on the other hand, was a rationalist; all problems could be diagnosed, therefore fixed. A sore throat was always the beginning of strep, a sniffle allergies. She probably would have tried to convince him that the thing on the bed was his partially absorbed twin, forty-plus years conjoined to his gut and now finally free. Twins ran in the family. Maybe he would start to feel better now.

Robert wondered how long he should wait, when was time time enough? The bathroom floor seemed to rack into focus, as though predicting his fall; Robert reached for the sink to steady himself and in the process met his face in the mirror. Was that thing screaming for him?


“I don’t mind getting married for better or for worse as long as it’s not a whole lot worse.”
It was beautiful outside, high sixties and crisp, the blue with its attendant white seemingly composed by a bored painter painting another goddam sky. If Sean and Robert, Jr., had been here, the three of them would be heading to soccer, the twins just decent enough athletes to make life impossible, what with the soccer and the hockey and the baseball, though it was obvious they would never be great. Nine years old and Robert already glimpsed mediocrity in their gait. He would watch them from the sidelines with those other conscripted parents, overcoming his innate shyness for the sake of community, cheering the boys on without embarrassing them, he hoped. “Good try” was mostly what he shouted. “Good try” and “Almost” and possibly a murmur of “Fucking A, that Gilroy kid can play.” And, of course, that Gilroy kid’s mother would be there, Janice of the South African accent and squinty demeanor, as though she were a shark among pilot fish. “Everyone’s feeding on scraps around here,” she once told Robert during an endless scrimmage. “Scripts?” he asked. “No, no, scraps,” she repeated. “Bits of leftover flesh.” “Scraps.” “Yes, scraps,” she said, exaggerating his American pronunciation, like a hard flat serve in tennis, then she smiled and put a touch of spin on the ball. But Robert was basically content, if almost always exhausted, to be living here, and he certainly would have preferred to be standing on those sidelines watching his sons chase after far speedier scraps than to be walking toward the back of his property, to where the trees were thickest and many seasons’ worth of leaves covered the ground. In one hand he carried a shovel; in the other, a rectangular box. It was something he’d made in fifth-grade woodworking class, probably the best thing he’d ever made in any class, carefully tapping in the nails and sanding the edges, carving his name on the lid—“Bobby”—then screwing in the hinges, screwing in the latch secured by a small padlock, the loss of its key remedied by a single blow from a hammer. Inside, baseball cards, hundreds of them, stacked like rubber-banded bricks of gold. Robert had come across the box last year after his mother died and he was emptying her attic of Bobby-related artifacts: the crates of records and tapes, the Technics turntable and Yamaha receiver-equalizer, the speakers like substantial pieces of furniture—man, he used to love his music—plus the old posters in poster tubes, the tapestries. So much forgotten stuff. Robert had moved it all into his basement, with plans of someday re-creating an analogue existence. “This is sound!” he would shout. But the baseball cards he gave to Sean and Robert, Jr., who spent a weekend cataloging them and checking their values online before sliding them into a binder—1975-1980. They would have tossed the box. And God bless the boys’ lack of nostalgia. They would never miss things the way Robert missed things, memory sometimes taking his breath away.

The best spot for this business was the far corner of the back yard, in the middle of a thicket of arborvitae that concealed the deer fencing, fencing in name only, since the deer came and went with impunity. Robert backed through the branches. Inside, it was like a room within a turret, with a hidden view of the pool, the terrace, the bay window of the kitchen. He imagined a madman crouching here, envying his family. The roof needed reshingling. That was an expense he and Becka had balked at during the big renovation six years ago, when they had actual money to spend; instead, they had opted for a screening room and had even bought one of those old-fashioned popcorn poppers which forever stank up the house. But Robert had a childhood fantasy about a screening room. It seemed the height of success. Of course, Becka complained about the surround sound being too loud, and the kids cared only about their handheld devices, which left Robert alone with old favorites, like “The Towering Inferno” or “A Bridge Too Far,” feeling ridiculous and friendless and wondering how he had become so ridiculous and friendless, and if he told this to Becka, like really told her, she would say go pick up the phone and call someone, you have to make an effort, Robert, and he would mutter something about being tired and retreat back to Anthony Hopkins at Arnhem. What a bloody mess.

Robert eased the box to the ground, its contents having cried itself to sleep. He figured he should dig beyond a canine sense of smell. A stomp on the shovel and the blade sank in and gave up a satisfying wedge of earth, followed by another wedge, no less satisfying, and for a moment Robert forgot the grim task and simply enjoyed the basic labor, wishing that life presented more opportunities to dig holes. Once he hit two feet, he stopped.

This is my only option, he thought. Whether this is miraculous or merely bizarre but true, I have no choice. Robert lowered the box, not without ceremony. Nothing stirred within, and he had hopes of possible suffocation; perhaps his long-ago care with carpentry had created a perfect seal. Then he saw his old name on the lid and his mood darkened. Was he so different from that easily injured boy? Sometimes it seemed that the only point to life was death. Dirt slid from the shovel back into the hole. Robert hoped it sounded like peaceful rain, because after that the rest was a storm.

Stripping down, Robert checked his phone and noticed multiple messages from Becka, beginning with a text—You up?—and ending with a voice mail, which he snubbed. Just finished a ten-mile run, he texted back, and jumped into the shower. Every now and then a horrific burst of imagination shook him: the cold darkness, the rising hunger, the first and final fear, of dying without ever understanding death. He began to revise his thoughts, distance insisting on reason. It must have been an animal, right, dragged in by Roscoe, some unfortunate creature deformed by fertilizers and pesticides.

Around ten o’clock, he called Becka back. She was giddy from being in that childhood home of hers, with the tennis court and the swimming pool, the two guest cottages, her parents with those pleasant parent smiles and easy parent love and natural parent abundance, whether of manners or of money or of pedigree—all this turned Becka into an overly excitable teen. “Mom wants me to go to 496e646961 with her because Dad refuses—you know, the poverty—and I’m, like, hello, I can’t, not with the kids, and she’s, like, it’s just three weeks, like three weeks is nothing, like sure, three weeks, great.”

Robert stared out the bay window.

“Of course, it would be fascinating,” Becka said.

He called her bluff. “Go, then.”

“Oh, c’mon, I can’t.”

“If you want to go, go. We can figure it out.”

“Please.” She sounded almost mad at the suggestion. “How was Stearns last night?”

“His father’s really sick.”

She hummed with sympathy, then asked, “You out late?”

“Home before midnight.”

“But you had fun?”

“Sure.”

“Good,” Becka said, as if she had granted him this fun. “You’re lucky you’re not here. My mother is driving me nuts.” Robert let the sentiment pass, since he knew that Becka worshipped her mother and often trumped up charges against her in hopes of obscuring this love with easier outrage. “Everyone’s asking about you,” she said.

“I’ll see them over Thanksgiving,” he said, and over Christmas, too, and spring vacation in the [REDACTED], and August on Martha’s Vineyard. All this was undeniably nice, and Robert never did complain—his parents were dead, and his brother and sister had their own family dynamics in [REDACTED]—though he sometimes wished Becka would just embrace their existence, however modest in comparison.

“What are you up to today?” she asked.

“Not sure yet.”

“But you went for a long run?”

“Yeah. I’m kind of beat from that.”

“Wish I could find time to exercise.”

When did being husband and wife turn into a zero-sum proposition?

“How’re the kids?” he asked.

“Having fun with their cousins.”

“That’s good.”

“That Peter is a nightmare, though.”

“Uh-huh.”

“Grabs everyone’s stuff.”

“He is only three.”

“But they spoil him,” Becka said.

Robert could hear how his quick defense annoyed her, the same as when he used to defend Robert, Jr., during his hard-core mermaid phase, five years old and drawing nothing but large-breasted mermaids and wanting to be called Ariel and watching “The Little Mermaid” over and over, and how Becka hated it and searched for a reason and for possible strategies to counteract the impulse, while Robert had no problem with the fantasy, so strange and exotic, so goddam special—my mermaid son. Plus it had taken the pressure off the more traditional paternal duties, which could scare Robert blind. Baseball was fine, but he would rather play Ursula or Sebastian the crab.

“Why do I bother?” Becka said. Robert was unsure of the referent, whether meaning rested on him or on her family or on a combination of the two; either way, there was no winning, so he stayed quiet.

“What are you doing for food?” she asked.

“Eating.”

“O.K.—”

“I’m sorry, I’m sorry,” he said, trying to step back from his tone.

“It’s just—”

“I know, I know.”

“I’m here and you’re—”

“I’m sorry.”

“And—”

“Totally.”

“Sometimes—”

“I hear you.”

They were much better at these partial articulations.

“But all is well?” she asked. “Basically?”

“All is well, basically,” he said, hearing her honest concern. They talked a bit more, about logistics mostly, then said goodbye, and Robert wondered if he was simply good at lying, or withholding, or whatever it was that he often did, or if Becka was too trusting and a savvier wife would have seen through him. Not that he ever lied about anything important, just small things, like what he had had for lunch, or if he had returned So-and-So’s call, random aspects of his boring day that he used to trick his wife for no apparent reason. For practice, maybe? For the big, inevitable lie? Standing there, Robert found himself questioning his own sense of the truth. How was any of this possible? Had he been seeing things? Misreading things? Imagining things? And though he was certain, or near certain, of what had happened, this growing doubt seemed a far greater threat to his sanity than any potential monster.

He was back among the arborvitae, with the shovel once again in hand and Roscoe on a leash—despite his being just a dumb dog, Robert needed a third presence to triangulate existence. It was obvious that the ground had been disturbed, so that much was true. Of course it was true, all of this was true. Robert lowered his ear and listened. Roscoe’s frantic sniffing interfered with a clear assessment, but Robert thought he heard something bundled within the normal outdoor chirps, something that sounded like a muffled cry, as if the earth were a heartbroken pillow. But he needed to be sure—sure of what? Life? Death?

He tied Roscoe to a nearby tree. This time the dirt gave up without satisfaction, the blade going in like a sigh, but as Robert dug deeper he became more convinced that he did in fact hear crying, terrible crying, coming from below, that there was something down there that needed saving, having forgotten his own agency in the matter. Shovel hit lid, and Robert fell to his knees and brushed the dirt away from his childhood name. As he freed the box, he could feel the wood vibrate. Inside, a thousand bees could’ve been mourning their lost queen. Robert flipped open the lid. The thing, either startled or relieved, went instantly silent. It looked up at him, its eyes like the gunk that stops the drain, and then it blinked.

The taxi headed toward the [REDACTED] train station. Robert sat in the back, on his lap a Prada box stolen from Becka’s closet, the boots replaced by this, this—Robert still had no proper name for the thing, though he had taken to calling it You, as in, “You hungry?,” which led to his feeding it applesauce, the spoon disappearing into that wound of a mouth and hitting against something hard, something that Robert chose not to investigate. But it seemed satisfied. “You like that, huh?” Robert said, wiping its chin. The unfortunate visuals had re-formed into a certain familiarity, a habituation that bordered on hope. Robert ditched the towel for a Rangers T-shirt pulled from the twins’ bureau—“You comfy now?”—and decided on a more practical means of conveyance, hence the Prada box. He had briefly debated leaving it in the house while he went to retrieve the car, but even a thing like this deserved responsible parenting.

As the taxi powered through the curves of Titicus Road and thank-you-ma’amed the hills near Peach Lake, Robert could feel the box’s contents start to shift and roll, the movement growing in velocity until he peeked in. “You O.K.?” Those chapped lips cracked open, reinjuring themselves for the sake of a smile. “You enjoying the ride?” Robert reached down and unbundled the T-shirt from around its neck, his touch provoking a shrill giggle.

“What you got back there?” the driver asked.

“What’s that?”

“In the box?”

“A bird,” Robert said, leaning on his youth and those birds with broken wings slipped into old shoeboxes. It was never any use. “It knows it needs to die,” his father would tell him, and Robert would disagree until his father was proved right one way or another.

“Is it O.K.?” the driver asked.

“It flew into a window, I think.”

“Is it a parrot? Sounds like a parrot.”

“No,” Robert said, sticking to the truth of his past.

“So you going to a vet for a random bird?” The look in the rearview mirror was the upstate version of incredulous, otherwise known as you’re fucking nuts.

“Something like that,” Robert said.

“Not to be harsh, but unless that’s a [REDACTED] condor it ain’t worth it.”

Sometimes it seemed that his father was everywhere.

At the train station, Robert picked up his car and drove to the supermarket, where he tucked the Prada box into the fold-down basket of the shopping cart and started to browse the aisles, grabbing things long forgotten, like baby food and baby formula, baby bottles, baby lotion, baby wipes and baby diapers, though none of the advertised babies looked anything like his particular baby. The supermarket was bustling at this hour. Most of the shoppers seemed more rugged than the typical suburban crowd, as if they were the secret farmers of northern Westchester County, the honest laborers who gathered when Bedford played tennis and Katonah played golf. Baseball caps were in abundance, the same with facial hair and affordable clothing, and Robert was at ease in their blue-collar midst. He was a straightforward dad doing his straightforward share, with no worries about yield-curve risks or duration gaps, and, while there were still sporadic sightings of preppy women in quilted jackets and oversized sunglasses, they were like picadors whose job was to provoke and fatigue.

An aisle later, one of these picadors pricked Robert by calling his name. He was contemplating a turkey baster and recognized her only when she removed her sunglasses and squinted.

“Janice,” Robert said, the baster like a rogue exclamation mark in his hand.

“We missed you at soccer today.”

“I thought there wasn’t a game.”

“There wasn’t, just a practice.”

“I probably should’ve called someone. My wife and kids are away.”

“And I see you have plans for a wild night tonight.” Janice reached into his cart and removed a can of baby formula. “Ah, Similac, I knew you well. Where be your gibes now?” She spoke with a theatrical lilt, after which she grimaced and let the can drop. “Sorry,” she said. “It was one of those endless practices and I had no one decent to talk to. But enough of me. Is there happy news on the Childress horizon? Shall I start tongues wagging?”

“Tongs?”

“Tongues”—Janice re-served, flattening the schwa.

“No, no, no—God, no,” Robert said. “You can put the tongs down. My daughter volunteers for a local women’s shelter and they need baby supplies, so here I am.”

“How nice.”


“My daughter, not me.”

“Yes, yes, always the kids.” Janice said, sounding almost disappointed, as if she were forty years too late to try to save the world. She was flirty and sexy and also distracted, not in the clichéd way of suburban mothers, with their aloof husbands and preoccupied children, but more like a keen scientist who has discovered, after years of study, that time is in fact fleeting. She tapped the top of the Prada box. “And doing some good-will work for the wife, I see.”

Robert almost slapped her hand away.

“What did you get her?”

“Nothing too exciting, just boots.”

The boots, Robert feared, had been awakened.

“Nothing too exciting?” Janice said. “Now you’re showing off.”

They both grinned and a question seemed to drape between them, a question often sensed but never spoken between the wives and husbands of husbands and wives: What would have happened if I had married you instead?

“Anyway” from Robert.

“Yes, yes, anyway” from Janice.

They said their goodbyes, Janice moving toward the snack aisle while Robert aimed for a speedy exit, the sharp turn toward the cashier eliciting a kick and a yay from inside the box—shit!—followed by more kicks and more yays—shit, shit, shit!—as if a game had been invented, Robert getting in line and leaning hard on the top—shit!—pretending to read one of those magazines that served up celebrities on a platter. It was like a scene in a movie, he thought, a farce, judging by his clumsy attempts at hushing up. But in this particular Westchester version no one noticed anything; the shoppers put their food in motion and the cashiers collected their beeps without looking up, the whole exchange so oddly serious that a blessing could have been involved.

“You got a Stop & Shop card?” the cashier asked him.

“Uh, no,” Robert said, nonchalantly battling the box.

She grabbed a nearby card and scanned its bar code for a ten-per-cent discount, and while Robert was pretty sure she did this for everyone, it seemed at that moment a great and unexpected kindness.

On the drive back, Robert took the curviest route possible, the windows rolled down, the stereo forsaking Top Forty for some hard-core Hüsker Dü, nobody complaining about the volume, certainly not his fellow speed freak riding shotgun. “You fucking love this!” Robert yelled, seeing arms, or armlike arms, rise up from the box, like any kid on a roller coaster. Robert started to half sing, half shout the chorus to “Chartered Trips”:

I thought I owed myself a trip away.

I wanted to go to places, I have never been away.

I looked at the pictures, imagine where they lay,

Away, on a beach, by the sea, where their clothes all lay away.

From the box came an accompaniment of wooo-wooo-wooo.

Once home, Robert positioned “You must be tired of this box” between two pillows on the couch and took stock of the groceries. The smallest diaper size would have to do. He cleaned the reddish-orange growths that composed its backside and fastened the diaper as best he could. The addition of this piece of everyday baby gear seemed to burnish the nightmare, like seeing pictures of the Elephant Man in jacket and tie, and, as with the Elephant Man—Merrick was his name, something Merrick, Robert remembered, played by John Hurt in the movie—there was a deep sense of understanding, however excruciating, beneath the skin. Robert touched its head. He tried feeding it a bottle, but its ability to suck seemed compromised, so Robert moved on to the purées—the apples and the bananas and the pears—all of which were happily accepted, though sweet potatoes were the obvious favorite, causing an enthusiastic shimmy. The spoon still hit something hard, and Robert peered in and noticed two incisors breaking through the soft palate, a discovery that was more curious than unpleasant. “You have teeth!” Robert was pleased to remind himself of his childcare abilities, how he’d been right there when Eloise and Sean and Robert, Jr., were babies. Maybe he was less of a man, but he was more of a father, especially when the children were younger. Nowadays they seemed so heavy. Robert put the spoon down and, working from memory, picked up “You need to slow down” and laid it over his shoulder and started to pat its back, searching for a burp from within that knotted terrain.

The ball disappeared across the lawn. It was early evening, and Robert stood in the middle of the back yard and watched his house get doled out in lamplight. Best case, he would receive no bonus this year. Roscoe reappeared from the growing darkness—good boy. In terms of being screwed, he was hardly alone. The ball disappeared. Sky and roof smudged into universal gray. On the second floor, “You should sleep” snoozed in a crib improvised from pillow and cushion, like Eloise with her dolls, when she was younger, before they took up jury duty on her bed. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. Earlier, Robert had given “You stink” a bath in the biggest of the salad bowls, and “You little fish” had splashed around and grunted, as if remembering its warm liquid beginnings. There had been—the ball disappeared—a moment when the phrase puke in a bowl got stuck in Robert’s head, which he found unspeakably funny, and he started to laugh, the long day having turned his brain to mush, and the actual puke in a bowl looked up with eyes pinched tight and laughed, too—huh-huh-huh—laughed for the sake of hanging on, it seemed, which made Robert want to cry. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. Maybe Stearns could set him up with a job. The ball disappeared. After the bath, Robert had rubbed lotion onto that burled skin and grabbed a fresh T-shirt from the twins’ bureau, this one of penguins surfing, “Look at You, dude,” already appearing bigger, stronger, too, like something hot that had cooled. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. For the first time, Robert allowed himself the thought of what “You sleep tight” might grow into, the possible story of its future care, the presumptions and formulations, the decisions spreading before him like the evening spreading across the sky, the question beyond answer, only a bit of yellow tumbling toward the horizon.

Near five o’clock on Sunday, Becka and the kids pulled into the driveway. Robert and Roscoe greeted them outside, Roscoe spinning in tight circles, Robert recently showered and shaved. The hours in the car played across all their faces, with Becka taking on the higher definition of spending the weekend alone with kids and parents and siblings, her exhaustion nearing 3D.

“Mom almost wrecked, like, a hundred times,” Sean said.

Robert, Jr., staggered out as though escaping near-death.

“It wasn’t that bad,” Becka said.

Eloise, as both prosecution and defense, rolled her eyes.

Becka forced a smile. “Either way, we made it, you little assholes.”

Sean and Robert, Jr., ran for the yard, kicking up soccer balls and footballs where previously there seemed to have been none, with Roscoe on their heels, his doggy ways almost human in their company. Eloise watched her brothers for a moment, arms crossed, as though trying on the mantle of parent, after which she grabbed her bag and asked Robert about his weekend, her tone both curious and not. Sometimes he wondered if, rather than living, Eloise was building a case for life. But she was undeniably beautiful. And smart. And his boys were confident and enthusiastic, their kidding never turning cruel. Robert stood there in awe. It was obvious that much of their goodness came from Becka, that her genes were an entire language, while he had given them only a few words. But here they were, within sight again, his limited vocabulary servicing a kind of poetry.

“I’m wiped,” Becka said.

“I bet.”

“And I really did almost crash. I wasn’t paying attention, so stupid of me, and I drifted into the oncoming lane. It could’ve been bad, like no-survivors bad.”

“Scary,” Robert said, unloading the bags.

“And it happened early, and for the rest of the drive I was so freaked I almost got into a dozen more accidents. I didn’t think the kids even noticed.” Becka shook her head. “It’s all because my mother told me to drive carefully. ‘Drive carefully,’ ” she said, trying to impersonate, but sounding only a little less like herself.

“Well, you made it,” Robert said. He noticed in the nearby pachysandra an old tennis ball, only its top visible, like a monk’s tonsure.

“You have a good weekend?” Becka asked.

“It was quiet.” Robert stepped in and grabbed the ball.

“In a good way?”

“In a quiet way.”

It was worn and dirty, elementally aged.

“Next time come with us. Please,” Becka said.

“Maybe.” Robert yelled toward the boys and gestured with the ball overhead as if knocking on a large wooden door. Sean and Robert, Jr., instantly understood the solicitation and jostled about, arms elbowing as Robert cocked his arm and launched the ball into the air, a true high fly, both boys trying to balance themselves on its descent. Neither got within five feet.

“So pizza tonight?” Becka asked.

Roscoe returned with the ball in his mouth.

“Sounds fine,” Robert said.

In bed that night, Robert and Becka made love, their hands moving in almost mechanical memory, bending and folding as if constructing a paper airplane, and though the design was basic, their bodies managed a bit of glide before sliding to a stop.

Soon after, Becka said, “I feel like I’m always saying the wrong things.”

“What?”

“To you, that I’m annoying you.”

“But you haven’t said anything.”

“I mean in general.”

“In general? No.”

“I can’t read your mind.”

“I know, I know. But didn’t we just have a nice little . . .”

Becka settled into her pillow. “That’s not communicating.”

“It’s a form of communicating.”

“No. It’s more of an expression of all the previous communication. It doesn’t just stand alone.”

“That doesn’t sound like much fun.”

“You’re right,” Becka said. “It’s more like studying before a test.”

“Should I say something here about grade inflation?”

“That’s not what I meant.”

“I know, I know.”

“But do you?” Becka asked, seeming to wonder aloud.

Robert grew silent. He knew that more needed to be said, and he wanted to say more, but he had nothing explicit to add, and so, unmoored, wrapped his arms around his belly as if in a pinch it could act as a flotation device. He lay there, suspended, until Becka finally turned and faced him, her left hand sliding under his head and rubbing the bony indent where spine met skull, and Robert found himself sort of falling through the floor, and the floor below that, all the way down to the basement and the far corner, where his old stereo and speakers remained stacked, the crates of records and tapes, the bygone music waiting, along with You who never made a sound. You were being brave. You need to be quiet, you were told, and you seemed to understand, but maybe you were just cold and frightened and those nods were yet another misunderstanding. You should know that there were fantasies of stealing you away and moving to northern [REDACTED], to the woods, to a hand-hewn cabin in the middle of those woods, to see what you might grow into, if you might settle into a viable existence, but you must have heard the sorries raining down and had some sense of what lay behind that word, the suffering and the failure. There was work tomorrow. And there was this family upstairs. There was that spring when Robert was twelve and an invisible barrier seemed to descend over the neighborhood, and over the course of a month a handful of birds appeared with broken wings and Robert became skilled at capturing them, sneaking up with soothing words and a ready towel. The beginning was always an adventure, the end a hard truth, until his father got fed up and grabbed the box and took the last bird into the yard and wrung its neck. There is mercy, and then there is mercy. Understand? He returned the box, empty, like some kind of receipt.

“You O.K.?” Becka asked.

She wiped Robert’s face.

“What is it, my love?” 