The Dark Arts
By Ben Marcus
On a dark winter morning at the Müllerhaus men’s hostel, [REDACTED] Bledstein reached for his Dopp kit. At home, he could medicate himself blindfolded, but here, across the ocean, it wasn’t so easy. The room stank, and more than one young man was snoring. The beds in the old gymnasium were singles, which didn’t keep certain of the guests from coupling when the lights went out. Sometimes [REDACTED] could hear them going at it, fornicating as if with silencers on. He studied the sounds when he couldn’t sleep, picturing the worst: animals strapped to breathing machines, children smothered under blankets. In the morning he could never tell just who had been making love. The men dressed and left for the day, avoiding eye contact, mesmerized in the glow of their cell phones.
[REDACTED] held his breath and squeezed the syringe, draining untold dollars’ worth of questionable medicine into the flesh of his thigh. He clipped a bag holding the last of his money to the metal underside of his bed. His father’s hard-earned money. Not enough euros left. Not nearly enough. He’d have to make a call, poor-mouth into the phone until his father’s wallet spit out more bills.
He left the hostel and took the stone path down to nothing good. This morning he was on his way, yet again, to meet Hayley’s train. Sweet, sweet Hayley. She would fail to appear today, no doubt, as she had failed to appear every day for the past two weeks. It seemed more and more likely that his lovely, explosively angry girlfriend wouldn’t be joining him in [REDACTED]—even though they’d spent months planning the trip, [REDACTED] Googling deep into his unemployed afternoons back home, Hayley pinging him sexy links from work whenever she could. A food-truck map, day treks along the Königsallee. First they’d destroy [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], lay waste to the Old World, then drop into freaking Düsseldorf for the last, broken leg of the journey.
It was meant to be a romantic medical-tourist getaway, a young invalid and his lady friend sampling the experimental medicine of the Rhine. But they’d fought in [REDACTED], and he’d come to Düsseldorf ahead of her. Now he waited not so hopefully, not so patiently—dragging himself between the hostel, the train station, and the Internet café, checking vainly for messages from Hayley—while seeking treatment at the clinic up on the hill.
Treatment—well, that perhaps wasn’t the word for it. His was one of the incurable conditions. An allergy to his own blood, as he not so scientifically thought of it. An allergy to himself was more like it. His immune system was confused, fighting against the home team. Or his immune system knew exactly what it was doing. These days, autoimmune diseases were the most sophisticated way to undermine yourself, to be your own worst enemy.
Back home, he’d tried it all—the steroids, the nerve blocks, the premium plasma—and felt no different. He’d eaten only green food until it ran down his legs. Then for a long time he’d tried nothing. He’d tried school, then tried dropping out, living, in his mid-twenties, in his old room in his father’s house. Through it all, though, he had mostly tried Hayley, as in really, really tried her, and he could see how very tried she’d become.
It was Hayley who’d pushed for this trip, so that [REDACTED] could finally have a shot at the new medical approach they’d read so much about, a possible breakthrough with rare autoimmune disorders. In [REDACTED], a shining outpost on the medical frontier, doctors tried what was forbidden or unconscionable elsewhere. And for a fee they’d try it on you. Massive doses of it. You could bathe in its miracle waters. You could practically get stem-cell Jell-O shooters at the bar on Thursday nights. So long as, you know, you waived—yes, waived—goodbye to your rights, your family, your life. It was not such a terrible trade.
On [REDACTED]’s first day, the clinic staff had brandished a very fine needle. It had gleamed in the cold fluorescent light of the guinea-pig room. From [REDACTED]’s wheezing torso, the doctors had drawn blood and marrow, his deep, private syrup—which they then boiled and spoon-fed back to him until he sizzled, until he just about glowed. Of course, the whole thing was more complicated than that, particularly the dark arts they conjured on his marrow once they’d smuggled it out of him. They spun it, purified it, damn near weaponized it, then sold it back to him for cash. Zero-sum medicine, since he’d grown it himself, in what Hayley, digging into his ribs, had called “the [REDACTED] Farm.” Except that the sum was a good deal larger than zero. 

And after a few weeks, or so the idea was, you’d be better. In his wellness fantasies, [REDACTED] always pictured himself scrubbed clean, nicely dressed, suddenly funny and charming. Better in every goddam way. But, of course, throughout these treatments, as he’d discovered, the frowning doctors hedged and balked and shat caveats, until the promise of recovery was off the table, out of the room, nowhere near the building.
This morning, he ducked the stares of shopkeepers, who guarded their doors against him, the pale American who spent no money. They must have come to recognize his sickly figure by now. What was left of it. God knows they gawked. To [REDACTED], it seemed that they could see right through his clothes, and they were not amused. You’d need more than clothing to hide a body like his. You’d need a shovel, a tarp. Tarps were designed to cover men like him.
[REDACTED] could only walk faster, wincing, until the shopkeepers released him from eye contact. Had anyone, he wondered, ever studied the biology of being seen? The ravaging, the way it literally burned when you fetched up in people’s sight lines and they took aim at you with their minds? He wanted to summon a look of kindness and curiosity in return, a look that might make them forgive his miserly ways, his trespass on their ancient, superior city. But his face lacked the power to convey. He’d stopped trying to use it for silent communication—the gestures you tendered overseas, absent a shared language, to suggest that you were not a murderer. Such facial language was for apes, or some mime troupe in [REDACTED]. Mummenschanz people who emoted for a living. He ate with his face and spoke with it. Sometimes he hid it in his hands. That should have been enough.
Anyway, why not let them think that he meant them harm, these people of Düsseldorf? Give them a good scare. A man dressed up as his own corpse, in a costume called simply “[REDACTED].” Too bad he couldn’t distribute his gray pelt en masse, so that a population of sunken-eyed 43616e616461s could limp through [REDACTED], begging for candy, muttering, “Trick or treat, Süsses oder Saures.” For now, he was the only one who got to wear it.
It took him just one sucking sprint on a cigarette to reach the train station, a fearsome building in rust-colored stone. After a few mornings inside, braving the crush of travellers reeking of chowder, he figured he didn’t need to enter the dank space to wait for Hayley. A granite ledge opposite the station offered a perfect view of the decamping passengers. Every morning, locals poured out of the building wrapped in hemp and straw. The fancier ones wore the waxed canvas coats of hunters. Occasionally, an American or two spoiled the tasteful palette with vacation colors. They shot into the town square like clowns fired from a cannon, mugging their snack-smeared faces at some imagined camera and releasing high-strung moods as if by megaphone: I have arrived in your historic city, and I am the happiest person you will ever know! Let me rub my joy on you!
Even if some rare Americans were shrewd enough to go native, shoeing themselves in the earth-brown padabouts of Europeans, wearing sweaters and satchels instead of parkas and backpacks, their faces, haunted by the tourist advisories, gave them away. [REDACTED] pictured them on the train ride into town, the German landscape scrolling by in fairy-tale colors outside the window while they huddled over their Fodor’s, steeling themselves when they came to the warning that visitors who showed fear or uncertainty were the first to be singled out. Targeted through binoculars by cunning locals, led down unmarked streets into alleys, where they’d be robbed and erased from the world. Even in modern [REDACTED]. Even in the civilized world. Especially in the civilized world!
Tourists and, for that matter, all people were merely accidents of physics, foamy chuff in the wake of a larger activity. That wouldn’t be explicitly stated in the Fodor’s. Not in so many words. Bodies were the jettisoned waste of something too great to comprehend. And the so-called “inner life” of these bodies was just biological sewage, produced by an organism that was, itself, a higher form of waste. Duh! People were statistically insignificant, a rounding error. Since he’d got sick, since he’d started frequenting online illness forums, particularly the terminal-illness ones, where the goddam sunny side of life was systematically shut down, this had become obvious. And boo freaking hoo.
Maybe, though, in terms of day-to-day survival, it was best to put this stuff out of his mind. One’s smallness, the very, very convincing ways in which one’s presence failed to matter, sometimes had to go without saying.
That was a tombstone inscription for you: [REDACTED] Bledstein. He went without saying.
Or: Here lies [REDACTED] Bledstein. He lied to himself, and now he lies here.
Two weeks had gone by like this. Trains had rolled in from [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED]. A disappointment of trains, failing each time to spit from their insides the girl [REDACTED] had fought with in [REDACTED]. In fact, he and Hayley had fought in several cities on this trip, a road show of freeze-outs and recriminations. For the most part, they’d warred silently, with so much stealth that sometimes [REDACTED] wasn’t sure whether they were actually quarrelling. Hayley could look so serious beneath her pixie haircut. She was too stubbornly self-contained, too confident, too O.K. with it all, which was decidedly not O.K. with [REDACTED]. A self needed to spill out sometimes; a body should show evidence of what the hell went on inside it. But Hayley had built a firewall around her feelings and moods. There was no knowing her, and fuck you if you tried to pierce her privacy. You were a creep and an invader, and you’d be rebuffed, then shamed. Even in bed, as she hobbyhorsed on top of him with the focus of a child doing homework, grimacing when her moment came, he wondered if she was mad at him. Their mating activity was hardly sexier than a needle in the back. But at least he got to see her naked. 
Hayley would fall quiet if [REDACTED] suddenly touched her hand, when all he wanted was to be touched back. That was the consolation prize available to the bottoms in a relationship, right? The mules, the dinguses, the shitbags? Touchbacks were supposed to be free. But she’d be clearly annoyed at the transparency of [REDACTED]’s desire when out of nowhere he pounced. Poking her to be cute, which was not, he knew, cute. Was there a subcategory of shit-eating grin, depending on whose shit you ate? He’d gone to a different school of etiquette, the school of no shame, the school of I need more from you. He’d been fucking homeschooled in emotional helplessness, scoring off the charts. By touching Hayley and waiting for her response, [REDACTED] could pursue the kind of emotional research you didn’t get to conduct in graduate school, a dissertation-level inquiry into the limits of revulsion regarding people who ostensibly love each other. Which always turned out to be a really stupid move. Hayley would smell his need, and it stank, it really, truly stank.
But she didn’t flee, even though his salient feature as a man was his leavability. He created occasions for departure in others. Until now, Hayley had hung in there. Her loyalty alone was an aphrodisiac, even though his medication sometimes gave him the cold, dull crotch of a mannequin. Hayley also believed in [REDACTED]’s illness, found it true and real and even pretty damn interesting, a faith that had turned out to be rare. Hayley and [REDACTED]’s father and the occasional stranger on the Internet, where the ill go in search of one another, humping one another’s empathy slots—these were the believers. Even if, sometimes, maybe, [REDACTED] did not entirely believe in the illness himself.
Hayley wasn’t coming. It was pretty obvious. [REDACTED] sat shivering in the chill, listening for the 9:13. Then the 9:41. Then the 10:02. He was tired. In winter, he sometimes caught a fever. His arms burned hot, as if a flame were being held to his skin. This was the nerves dying, an Internet confidant had explained. Of course his immune system wanted him dead. It knew. It was making the call on behalf of the wider society. It was taking him out. In the larger project of the universe, of which he must necessarily be kept in the dark, his own existence appeared to be an obstacle. So the species makes an adjustment. It redacts.
No one else was waiting outside today. No one else was stupid enough to sit and freeze on a granite ledge in middle [REDACTED], watching the trains come in. People here knew where their loved ones were. Loved ones’ coördinates were simply available. Such was the nature, the very definition, of a loved one. Normal people didn’t need to risk exposure and illness waiting outside and wondering, letting their minds work up end-times scenarios. They did not need to dream up future sorrows for themselves.
After the first trains of the morning failed to produce Hayley, [REDACTED] stood at a café for a scorched espresso, then returned to his lookout to wait. When Hayley still didn’t come, he took shelter at the crêpe stand, where the day’s crêpes had already been cloaked in black jam. A death bread, for two euros.
He wasn’t hungry. He was never hungry. But some dim sense of duty haunted him, his father’s voice, gentle and girlish, suggesting that food might help. Food, food, food. “Please, [REDACTED], eat something,” his father was always saying, as if noxious, soon to be spoiled material from the earth would do anything but poison him further. For [REDACTED]’s whole life, his father had stood at the stove and made pancakes for him, grilled cheese, oatmeal, eggs, burgers. Later, when the alternative-care community had thrust nutritional strategies their way, when the Prednisone and the Lyrica, the off-label intravenous immunoglobulin, and the chemotherapy worms had fattened and ruined and bleached and burned and defeated him, his father had steamed bushels of kale. But [REDACTED] had only ever picked at his plate, as if dissecting roadkill for shards of glass. His father, especially after [REDACTED]’s mother travelled underground to spend the rest of eternity inside a luxury coffin, had removed [REDACTED]’s untouched food and spooned it into the trash. Only to try again a few hours later, smiling and kind.
So now [REDACTED] thought that eating something might be smart, but the tourist’s gesture for plain crêpe eluded him. Or perhaps the vender just enjoyed watching him pretend to scrape something foul from his hand. Scraping it and scraping it, souring his face to indicate his distaste for the jam, while the vender grinned at him and winked, as if [REDACTED] were demonstrating something the two of them might do together later, in private. Why were such gestures always considered sexual, one hand doing something untoward to the other hand? Why wasn’t this seen as a semaphore of the beginning of the world, God the Creator digging life from the soil and brushing it off, sending it without a headlamp into the darkness? [REDACTED] might finally consent to play charades, maybe, if instead of celebrities the pantomime were restricted to events surrounding the big bang. Religious scenarios. The cold narrative of physics. Reënactments from the very, very beginning of time. Very fucking very. And, on the eighth day, God made his creatures so lonely they wept. Picture that charade, he thought.
[REDACTED] was early for his transfusion. This was probably good, because he had to navigate a ritual confusion at the clinic’s front desk. It concerned the existence of Hayley.
“You do not come alone?” the receptionist quizzed him, as per fucking usual. She rose slightly in her chair and peered behind him. He stepped aside so that she could see the emptiness.
“I do.”
As in, regardez how goddam alone I am. See it once and for all.
There seemed to be no way to permanently establish the fact of his solitude. He shrugged at her and showed, via sneer, what he considered to be justified disgust. It made his face ache.
The receptionist failed to notice.
“You are not supposed to be coming alone,” she insisted, waving the form.
It was true. He’d agreed to be accompanied—they didn’t give a shit by whom—because the treatments left you weak, woozy. The treatments left you worse than that. Supine, prone, drooling, horny. Never mind how problematic that was, how much that confirmed that “treatment” was the wrong word. What should you call it when afterward you needed to be led from the premises? When, owing to the obliterating immunosuppressants, which preceded the perfectly refreshing speedballs of marrow, the body lacked the power to remove itself? Probably they didn’t care, at this first-class medical establishment, if the body was dumped in the Rhine. Just get it out of the clinic. Did they call it “the body”? Did they ask each other, peeking from behind their German curtain: Has the body gone? It is all clear, ja?
Anyway, he’d done fine most days without Hayley, weaving through the granite lobby after his treatment, baby-stepping down the broad white stairway overlooking the town. On some days, well, at least once, he’d even felt strong and alert, with a fresh dose of doctored stem cells running through his blood.
[REDACTED] leaned in, showed his teeth. These were the gray teeth, he knew, of someone threatening not to bite you but to crumble his mouth on your face, leaving bits of horrid ash.
“Would you like me to leave?” he hissed at her. “Because I will. Is that what you want?”
Ooh, boy. What a tremendous threat, not to follow through on his own treatment, which his father had already paid for! He really had her now. He’d backed her into a corner!
The receptionist sighed. She was a human being after all.
“This person exists for you?”
“Not just for me.”
“And you say she is coming?” The receptionist struck a hopeful tone.
Oh, God, he thought, let’s not be hopeful anymore. Where has it got us, really?
“No,” [REDACTED] said. “I’d say she is not.”
The clinic wasn’t what he’d been expecting when he first arrived. The place lacked a porch with rocking chairs, where dignitaries convalesced deep in thought, staring out over a thundering gorge. Nurses did not come by with blankets to cover your lap. You did not take the clean, healing air, or hike up mossy trails into the mountains. Convalescence here was presented as an essentially professional activity, like day-trading. The reception lounge was smartened up like a bank; the treatment rooms were hidden in vaults. Photographs of athletic prowess, framed in metal, lined the hallways. Bodies performing impossible maneuvers, in full color, glistening, mostly nude. These images were hung, no doubt, to flatter the rumored celebrity clients, who must have had their own entrance, their own goddam wing, because [REDACTED] never saw them. Rich and arthritic American athletes, willing to take injections of liquid horse penis or whatever into their stiff joints, able to afford exceedingly rare and hazardous attacks on their bodies. Sea sponge in the neck, cartilage-fortifying worms, administered via cream.
In the waiting room, patients gazed at their phones or read or looked anywhere but at one another. A certain shame lingered over people who were going out of pocket on experimental health care, paying too much to keep feeling worse far from home. How humiliating to be seen like this, failing to rage, rage against the dying of the light. Failing even to fucking complain.
When his name was called, the technician led him to the semi-private room where patients reclined in blue vinyl chairs, watching television they could not understand. In transfusion chair No. 3, [REDACTED] submitted to the usual pre-treatment shenanigans. He confirmed his name and birth date, signing, yet again, a German-language consent form. A nurse practitioner arrived to stick him for blood, filling a vial from his leg until it looked like a long black bullet. She waved it at him, and it foamed.
“You are O.K.,” she said.
“I am?”
“Yes.” She smirked. “I know this.” She tapped her head. A universal sign of certainty. He needed to remember to tap his head when he spoke, no matter what. He should always tap his head.
“Ready?” the nurse asked, and he nodded to her. He wasn’t.
She wheeled up the apparatus and switched it on. Inside its wire frame rested the clear bag sloshing with his new life, frothy and pink. It produced a not unpleasanthum.
He let his arm fall into the syringe basket and closed his eyes, waiting for the dreams that sometimes came when the long needle, loaded with marrow, was raised over his body.
After the treatment, [REDACTED]’s father assured him from the lobby pay phone that money was not a problem. He’d wire it over on his lunch break, which meant that [REDACTED] could get it later tonight. But how was he feeling, his father wanted to know, and how were his side effects and was he able to sleep, because you don’t get better if you don’t sleep well, that’s just common sense, and of course the city must be tempting, the museums and the old opera house and the Latin food festival that had begun last night, according to what his father had read online—what an exciting thing for [REDACTED] to be doing! his father said—but he shouldn’t go crazy amid the delights of Düsseldorf. The delights! Was his hotel clean? He should take care of himself, and money, seriously, was not a problem.
This, [REDACTED] knew, was his father’s way of not saying that money was a problem, a very big problem, and that his father worried about it night and day, but never spoke of it. Never. [REDACTED] was simply allowed to lick money from his father’s body whenever he wanted to, and his father had pledged never to cry out in pain.
They would find a way, his father said. He’d send more than [REDACTED] had asked for, because worrying about money was the last thing [REDACTED] needed right now. He needed to heal. Was he healing? 
[REDACTED] glanced at his needle-kissed arm. He imagined the German blood product sluicing through his body, trouncing the free radicals, persuading his white blood cells not to eat through bone.
He guessed that he was healing. Quite.
“How’s Hayley?” his father asked. “She keeping you fed?”
[REDACTED] pictured Hayley prying his mouth open with her fist, pouring sauce down his throat.
“She’s fine,” [REDACTED] answered. No doubt this was true. Hayley was probably having a glass of wine, smoking, sitting at an outdoor café somewhere. [REDACTED], still? [REDACTED]? They’d spoken of [REDACTED] in a vaguely flirty way, as if they might like each other more there.
“Is she with you now? Can you put her on?”
His father and Hayley and their whisper time: they were his armchair doctors, his medical curators, who earned their authority because they cared more about his health than he did.
“Oh, she went ahead to scout out a good place for dinner. I’m starving.”
“That’s what I like to hear,” his father said.
How about that, having something you like to hear. For [REDACTED], it would be what, exactly? Maybe something Hayley-related. Even just her name. Preferably spoken by her. As in: Hey, Jules, it’s me, Hayley. I miss you, and I’m on my way.
“O.K., Dad, well, thank you.”
His father breathed into the phone. He could tell, all the way from [REDACTED], that back in [REDACTED] his father was O.K., maybe even smiling. He could feel it. This was something nice. It was very nice. It would do.
He should never, until the very second he died, stop knowing that he had a father who would do anything for him. What a crime to forget this. He was a criminal if he ever stopped thinking this for even a minute.
“I love you, honey,” his father said, and they hung up.
[REDACTED] took a shortcut to the Old Town, up along Adersstrasse, dipping around the Graf-Adolf-Platz. [REDACTED] was deadly cold this time of year, the trees slick with ice, the grass so scarce it seemed the whole country had been poured in cement. The weathered stone, the weathered people—even the language was weathered. It was genius, [REDACTED] thought, to create a language from strangled cries, deathbed wheezing. There was perhaps no truer way to communicate. If he spoke German, his inanities would escalate into parable. Everything out of his mouth would be a eulogy. German was the end-times language, the only tongue worth speaking as the sun shrank and went cold.
Instead, [REDACTED] was stuck with whiny, nasal English, in which every word was a spoiled complaint, a bit of pouting. In English, no matter what you said, you sounded like a coddled human mascot with a giant head asking to have his wiener petted. Because you were lonely. Because you were scared. And your wiener would feel so much better if someone petted it. How freakishly impolite, how shameful, to let these things be revealed by one’s language. At least overseas he didn’t speak much English. He didn’t speak much anything.
[REDACTED] ate no dinner. He found a wine bar and drank cautiously from a communal bottle of something red and sparkly, a kind of alcoholic soda. He sat in a sea of couches, and every now and then some grinning celebrant poured a swallow into his glass and raised it vaguely at the others. A kind of listless cheers, offered to the room. Each time, [REDACTED] raised his own glass in response, nodding his head. Cheers, indeed. When the bottle was empty, and he’d paid far more than he owed, he walked back down to the station and took his position on the ledge.
There was something tremendously good about sitting there and not looking out for Hayley, a habit he’d decided to break. He didn’t even know the train schedule tonight. The trains could do what they liked. He would take an evening off from feeling incomplete without her. A paid vacation. He’d done this shit on his own so far, and if Hayley had been there he would have tried to scrape her, day and night, for pity and understanding. She would have been empty by now, empty and seething, but still he would have kept scraping with his spoon, digging deep into her sweetest parts until they were completely gone.
He’d been doing fine without Hayley, and he would do fine, and he fucking was fine. He sat and he froze and he shivered, and it was perfectly terrific. He had no good reason to be at the station, and yet so far, since he’d arrived, this was his best night in [REDACTED]. He even felt sort of healthy, although it made him nervous to think so, and damned if he knew what healthy meant anymore. He’d long ago lost track of how he was supposed to feel, and on days like this, nights like this, treatment or not, it was hard not to be worried, a little bit, that some of the reactionary, conservative doctors whom Hayley had railed against at home, the ones who’d scorecarded [REDACTED] in the normal range, might actually have been right. Perhaps he had been fine this whole time. He wasn’t legitimately sick. Perhaps this was just what it felt like to be alive.
Or so those doctors had seemed to be saying.
Did everyone else, he wondered, feel listless, strange, anxious, dull, scared—you could pretty much go shopping from a list of adjectives—and did other people just clench their jaws and endure it, without running to the doctor, as he did, again and again?
For hours, it seemed, no trains came into the station. The tracks were quiet and the whole city was perfectly still, as if perhaps there’d been some agreement, deep in the brain of the city, that all machines would be shut down at this hour, all vehicles grounded. A scheduled hiatus of activity on this clear, cold evening in Düsseldorf. Travellers still occasionally made their way out through the station’s tall glass doors, locals mostly, pulling dark suitcases across the ice. How they’d got to town without a train was a mystery to [REDACTED], until he realized that they must have arrived hours ago and waited inside, where it was warm, for someone to come and get them. That was what happened to arrivals. Not all of them got met. They’d stared out at the square all evening, as tiny, fuel-efficient cars ripped here and there without stopping for them. Finally, they must have realized that their rides weren’t coming, so they’d bundled up and walked out alone into the cold.
That night at the hostel, a visitor came to [REDACTED]’s bed. Some uninvited man crept under his covers while he slept, and [REDACTED] woke up—suddenly, rudely, confused. This man was taking liberties. Before much could happen—before disgrace and shame and, who knows, the implication that he was even remotely O.K. with this—he’d fled to the bathroom.
His heart was blasting, his sleep shirt damp and twisted. From the bathroom, looking back out into the gymnasium, the air thick with sleep, he saw no sign of anything. No man, no sounds, just beds and bodies and darkness. It was as if the stranger had vanished. Hands had been on him while he slept, and when he thought about it he saw himself lying there reciprocating. He couldn’t piece it together. What in the goddam hell had happened? He checked his body everywhere, testing. For evidence? Damage?
He’d been touched, that he was sure of. He’d been touched, it had happened, and now there was nothing to be done about it. He crouched in a bathroom stall, trying to think. Some scene in whatever he’d been dreaming—he’d been having some kind of intense dream, oh, God—had allowed this to happen, had made him stay longer in his bed than he should have. As if he were enjoying it. He’d been dreaming of cuddling, and not with Hayley, but big deal. That was how it worked. You could date the whole world in your dreams, and it was O.K. You could, actually, date-rape the whole world in a dream, too. You could kill and clean up after yourself. Or not—you could leave evidence all over the world and get caught and go to jail forever and wake up crying. So fucking what. The point is, he was cuddling someone in his dream, and he was doing it in that squirming way, he had to admit, that he hoped might lead to more, and then he woke up beside a body, and what were you supposed to do? There was no way not to respond. Anyone would. It could have been a dog and he would have nuzzled into it, feeling something. He was aroused, technically, but he had been aroused before the man crawled into bed with him, so this was bullshit.
Oh, God. He wanted to cry foul.
In the morning he asked about other accommodations, and they offered him a private room, for twice the money. Then, no, they withdrew that offer, because it seemed those rooms were taken. The only available beds were in the Turnhalle, where he was staying, and if he would like to change beds he could do that, for a fee. Would sir like a bed in another part of the room?
He lurked outside the hostel, watching the men light their cigarettes and head into town. They filed out silently, squinting against the day. Which one of them had done this?
He realized, once the men were gone from Müllerhaus, that he was exaggerating his indignation. He was worked up for nothing. No one was watching, and he was putting on the fucking Ritz, for God’s sake, as if there were something so terribly wrong with someone’s kissing him in the night. Was he really supposed to care at this late date who kissed him? Wasn’t it enough to be kissed by someone? What was the saying—beggars can’t be complete and total losers?
“Your friend is here,” the nurse told him as he was finishing his treatment that afternoon.
Friend, [REDACTED] thought. Not possible. The word made him picture animals. Pets he’d never had.
“Your friend waits there now,” the nurse said, pointing up.
If he followed in the direction she was pointing, he’d float through the ceiling and into the sky before crashing to the ground. Head in this direction, sir, even if it takes you over a cliff. Waiting for you, maybe, will be someone who cares.
[REDACTED] cleaned up in the patients’ bathroom. On his way out, a nurse directed him to the doctor’s office, where his very own doctor, whom he hadn’t seen for days, was hanging film in a light box.
The doctor greeted [REDACTED] and waved him over to a stool.
[REDACTED], instead, stepped up to the light box. The scan was mostly black, a portrait of darkness.
“Is this me?” [REDACTED] asked. “My head?”
The doctor nodded.
“We are looking at your scan while you are here this day.” 
[REDACTED] studied the doctor. He was trim, and his skin glowed. Like most doctors, he seemed offensively healthy, as if he kept the real secret of vitality to himself. He would live forever while people crumbled and died around him. If necessary, he would eat you to survive.
“Well, we see something sometimes,” the doctor was saying, “in this kind of white-blood person. The scan is really. This is why we scan. And,” the doctor continued, “we have this discovery to show you.”
The doctor pointed his pen at a scuff in the film.
“A little discovery. You can discover it here.”
The doctor traced the outline of nothing that was, perhaps, a shade lighter than the nothing around it.
Maybe [REDACTED] could see it. A very small shape, like a cloud. In his brain. Weather passing through. If you could draw a headache, this is what you would draw.
“This is a concern,” the doctor said, looking at [REDACTED] hopefully.
“O.K.,” [REDACTED] said. “Where is it?”
That mattered, right? His entire personality could perhaps be explained by this cloud. A cluster of rogue cells pushes on a nerve, blocks a vessel supplying blood to the deep limbic system, and suddenly you’re funny, witty, and charming. That was what a personality was, the blood thirst of rogue cells, a growth in the mind.
The doctor pointed again at the cloud.
“It is here,” he said, more slowly.
“No, I mean in me. Where is this thing?”
[REDACTED] tapped his head. Maybe it wasn’t in the brain itself.
“This is not our work.”
“You didn’t make this tumor?” [REDACTED] grinned.
“Well, tumor,” the doctor said, as if there might be some doubt. “We see a shape, yes? We do not make that name for it. We do not work on this kind of area. We do not fix this.”
“Does anyone?”
“Someone must know what this is. Who treats the brain where you live.”
Yes, someone must.
“We will be sending this scan to your American doctor. And we think that the stem-cell transfusions is not, for now, a good idea. Until this.”
The doctor pointed at the cloud and tried, again, to look stumped.
“This first. To understand this. Then, maybe.”
[REDACTED] was impressed. He had to hand it to him. The doctor had devised a pretty good tombstone inscription.
This first. To understand this. Then, maybe.
[REDACTED] laughed.
“What is it?” the doctor said, smiling. As in, thank God this moron is going into denial now. He’s going to be one of those people who crack jokes after getting news of a tumor. I will not need to wash his tears from my doctor’s coat.
“It’s just that, if you tell me it’s all in my head now,” [REDACTED] said, “you won’t be lying.”
“Aha. I see what you say. This is truly funny. But we will not be lying to you ever, Mr. Bledstein.”
Oh, feel free, [REDACTED] didn’t say. Lie to me all you want.
The nurse brought in the papers to terminate his treatment, seal off liability, sever connections between [REDACTED] and the clinic. He signed and signed and signed.
The doctor, frowning thoughtfully, stood by.
“I am sorry we do not have a way to give you your money back,” the doctor was saying.
“I could help you,” [REDACTED] said. “If you want.”
“Excuse me?”
“I could show you a way to give me my money back,” [REDACTED] explained. “You know, how to transfer it back to my credit card. It’s not so hard.”
“Oh, you must misunderstand.” The doctor blushed.
“Yes, I must,” [REDACTED] said.
Outside the clinic, standing on the steps in her long corduroy thrift-store coat, nearly hidden by a plaid scarf, was Hayley. She gave him a shy little wave, sheepishly smiling, forgiving, forgetting, denying, all in one cute fucking face. How on earth.
“Jules! Oh, my God, you took forever!”
“I took forever?” He tried to sound arch. Here Hayley actually was. Jesus Christ.
“It’s freezing,” she said, laughing.
She had a gift for killing off oddity, making shit like this—sudden encounters in foreign countries—seem routine.
[REDACTED] agreed that it was cold. [REDACTED] in February and all that.
“Are you O.K.?” she asked. “You look good.”
How nice if that were true. He’d never looked good, not even as a baby. Hayley should be ashamed of herself. He looked good. Still, he had to applaud her strategy. Cheer, denial, exuberance. If only he could.
“Come here already!” Hayley shouted. “Come hug me, you stupid bastard. How are you? Oh, my God, I can’t believe I’m seeing you.”
He succumbed to Hayley’s hug, giving little back.
“Oh, you,” she kept saying. “I missed you, you know.”
They walked through the icy streets of Düsseldorf, stopping to sit and shiver on a cold metal bench by the Rheinturm. [REDACTED] took Hayley through the Old Town, along Carlsplatz, pointing out cultural zones with the indifference of a local. He lied, effortlessly, about places he hadn’t even seen, like the Kunstakademie—looking at art was the last thing he’d wanted to do—and invented a day trip to Cologne. Which he’d taken last Wednesday? Or maybe Thursday? Hayley beamed up at him, her brave and adventurous boyfriend, snuggling into his coat as they walked.
Hayley kept saying that she couldn’t believe she was here. I mean, could he? she asked. Could he believe it? And he disappointed her by saying, that, well, yeah, he could, because she had been supposed to come, hadn’t she?
“I know, but it’s crazy, right?” she said.
[REDACTED] steered Hayley clear of Müllerhaus, but he kept it in his sights, a secret back door he could fall through. He didn’t interrogate her on her whereabouts these past two weeks, on the matter of who or what had detained her in the brighter, more exciting ports of Europe, and she didn’t mention it. She hardly spoke. Maybe they hadn’t fought or maybe they weren’t still, in some quiet, effortlessly Zen way, fighting right now. One day, people would swab each other with animosity sticks, and there’d be no way to hide it. Just as you could be tested for cancer, you could be tested for fury. Your anger would show, or your resentment, your detachment, your ambivalence, your reduced sexual attraction, no matter what you said or did. Your mood would be a chemical fact, and, if you lied about it, then poor, poor you. You’d be found out! Looking at Hayley, seeing her radiate, feeling her cozy up against him, it was ridiculously hard—in fact, it was impossible—not to feel that the affection she was suddenly smothering him with was meant for someone else.
Maybe that person shared his name, and looked like him—the poor fuck—but so what. Hayley wanted a stranger—You are dead to me, he wanted to say to himself—and [REDACTED] couldn’t help her. Instead of breaking up with your girlfriend, could you break up with yourself?
“So I talked to your dad,” Hayley said.
“Why?”
“Well.” She looked at him funny. “Because I wanted to know where you were.” She punched him softly in the arm.
Maybe she wanted to say: play along with this, [REDACTED], please, please, because this is how it works. I am trying so hard right now.
“You knew exactly where I was,” he said. “I’ve been right here the whole time. I’ve been at the clinic every day for two weeks. Where else would I be?”
“I wanted to know that you were doing O.K., and, you know, where you were staying.”
“So you asked him?”
“I knew you’d have been in touch with him.”
“Yeah.”
“I can care about you, [REDACTED].”
“I know you can, Hale.”
She could care about him in theory, and maybe in real life, too. But he must have migrated to some other place, because both of those territories seemed very far off to him now.
They crossed the Oberkassel bridge, where the wind destroyed them, and finally Hayley admitted to being impossibly, horribly cold. And hungry. The poor thing’s nose was running, and her face was red. Could they maybe head back now? she wanted to know.
“Back where?” he said.
“To the room.”
“Room? There is no room.”
“At the Am Volksgarten. You know, where we . . . They had rooms. I didn’t know where you were, and you weren’t checked in there.”
“Oh, are you Madame Düsseldorf now? What have you been here for, like, eleven minutes? Plus, I have a place to stay. And there isn’t room there for you.”
“What do you mean?”
[REDACTED] vowed not to look at that area of her that seemed to be crying.
“I am perfectly lodged, thank you.”
“Would you please stop it?”
“I doubt it.”
“Jules, please. I want to stay with you tonight.”
He turned away and crossed the avenue, and she spoke his name, but not so urgently. This is what a favor looks like, he thought. Probably there was a favor being done right now. Except, as he turned uphill and left Hayley behind, he had to wonder who, exactly, was doing this favor, and who was the fucking favor even for?
It was getting dark. Soon the hostel lights would go off. The men would tuck in, and some of them would be snoring in seconds. The whole room would hum with desire, forty or fifty men who required darkness for their work. This was where he belonged. This time, he’d stay in his bed, no matter what. He would not bolt. He’d listen all night for footsteps. If none came, then perhaps he would be the stranger. He would find someone sleeping in the Turnhalle, someone who needed badly to be visited, and he would oblige.
[REDACTED] would reach out his hand. He wouldn’t say it out loud, but he could certainly think it. He’d been thinking it for so long now. Wouldn’t you like to join me? And wouldn’t that phrase serve as the perfect inscription on the tombstone they would finally, mercifully, place, when the time came, over his grave?

