The Gray Goose
By Jonathan Lethem
H_ello_, boys and girls, this is Burl Ives, and I’ve come to sing some songs for you. Here’s a song about a gray goose, the strangest goose. In 1948, the year Miriam’s father left, she was given an album. Last Sunday mornin’, Lord, Lord, Lord / Oh my daddy went a-huntin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. Miriam was forbidden to operate her parents’ hi-fi, built into a long rosewood cabinet that also included a radio, the most fantastical item of furniture in their lives, purchased on installment at Brown’s Appliance, on Greenpoint Avenue, and a fixture of contention in any number of speeches on the subject of what her father termed, in the grip of one of his baroque and finicky rages, their “slavery to commerce.” And along come the gray goose, Lord, Lord, Lord. Miriam had to request the Burl Ives each time.
The way her mother handled the album reminded Miriam of the Jewish ritual actions Rose despised: the slipping of scrolls from a cabinet, her grandfather’s tender sheathing of the afikomen within its napkin at Passover, really anytime Miriam had ever witnessed a Jew handling papers of importance or turning the pages of a book as if unworthy, grateful, ennobled, discreetly defiant, all at once. Rose opened her political books in this way—her [REDACTED] and Lenin and Earl Browder, her volumes of Carl Sandburg’s life of Abraham Lincoln. And she tutored Miriam in the action of handling an LP: middle fingers paired at the label, steadying thumb at the disk’s outer edge. Never so much as a breath grazing the sacred dark-glinting music carved into the disk’s canyons, during its passage in and out of the crisp inner papers. A wrong glance could probably scratch the thing. God knew this was a house of wrong glances.
For the girl seated at the record-player, fathoming the nature of her mother’s presence and her father’s absence was practically a full-time pursuit. If necessary, she’d offer it as justification for a report card’s testimony of mild disappointment: Miriam, though talented and capable, seems distracted from her assignments. Yes, she’d say. Too busy with my real study: the implausibility of my existence on earth! For what, after all, had Albert Zimmer and Rose Angrush’s marriage been if not an implausibility briefly entertained? Tolerated for an instant before being demolished, dismantled from at least three directions at once: her family, his family, and the Party. The high assimilated German joining up with Rose the Polack, Rose the Russian, Rose the immigrant, Rose the second-generation, raised-in-the-back-of-a-candy-store [REDACTED] Jew? Unlike every comedy ever devised by Jewish writers mocking class difference from the sanctuary of [REDACTED], these were divisions that truly couldn’t be overcome by the bonds of love. Rose and Albert’s marriage wasn’t screwball; it was you’re screwed. Not “It Happened One Night” but “It Happened Never.”
Miriam’s origin myth centered on Rose and Albert’s first meeting. Even after her father had fled back to [REDACTED], she could get Rose to tell the story. What child wouldn’t start there? Grasp this story, and you might even know what kind of meeting you could expect to make in the world, at some future time.
It was at a packed hall near Gramercy Park, under a high ornate ceiling echoing with voices: there a mole met a mole. Rose seated on one side, in a creaky wooden folding chair, Albert seated across the room, in another. Both seeking to take the meeting’s floor, to steer its innocence and idealism in a given direction, both eager to run back to their contacts and brag of enlisting the group, and each obstructed, largely, by the other. Oh, it was ripe: Albert and Rose discovered each other because they’d been assigned, by their separate and poorly coördinated cells, to insinuate themselves into the same organization, the Gramercy Park Young People’s League. To introduce the possibility of solidarity with the coming workers’ revolution into this vague, well-intentioned gathering.
Each was therefore forced, at some point, to bite a tongue and hear the other. Until, as they tussled for dominance in pursuit of the same outcome, the prospect of some other form of tussle emerged in the thoughts of both, and the hall’s other occupants melted away into irrelevance. Albert thinking, Who is this young Emma Goldman, this zaftig [REDACTED] shtetl girl in the hand-sewn dress, covering the Yiddish parts of her speech with elegant rhetoric, with comical double-feature-at-the-Loew’s Britishisms? Rose thinking, Who is this fair Germanic professorially handsome fellow in suspenders and gold-rimmed glasses—and can he possibly be, as he claims in his speech, Jewish?
Their infatuation was above all a meeting of two intellects gleaming with the same exalted certainties, two wills emboldened by the same great cause, and they were still uncovering the extent of their political sympathies (though “political” was too limited a term, insufficient to describe what joining the greatest movement of human history had done for their sense of what life itself was for), gabbing a mile a minute, barely able to stop talking to eat the food that sat cooling on the table where she’d cooked it for him in the kitchen of his flat, or to sip the wine they’d poured but in their intoxication with the cause hardly needed, when Albert first unbuttoned her dress and his trousers. So the tussle, begun in full public view, was now consummated behind closed doors.
For a little while, Rose and Albert abandoned all urgencies, except those of a cell of two. Two fronts moving as one. Full synthesis achieved and lost on a nightly basis.
Then, when Rose had missed three menstruations, they married. What could be so wrong? They were two Jews. Two humans. Two believers in revolution. In the eyes of anyone but their families, a matched pair. Any “real American” would have heard his German accent as close kin if not identical to her parents’ Yiddish. He was fair and she was dark, sure. But, spiritually, they could be taken for brother and sister. Certainly Albert and Rose found themselves allied utterly, proudly so, in the glance of any hater of Jews or revolutionists. Wouldn’t the Cause soon erase all distinctions of class and creed and race?
Try telling it to the Jews. At their futzed-together, hasty wedding, Albert’s mother and her brother high-hatted the Angrush clan—that whole spilling array of Rose’s sisters and their husbands and their broods, the innumerable cousins. They treated Rose’s family like the servants they’d been forced to let go just before fleeing Lübeck. The Zimmers, the progressive, the enlightened, the worldly Zimmers, in the face of non-German Jews, semi-religious Jews, village Jews, felt their own place instantly: above them. This union was not what world revolution was meant to make possible, thank you very much!
Then, as if to prove that the cosmos itself wanted no such union, the pregnancy lapsed, in the privacy of night, leaking out of Rose in gobs and streams, so discreetly that she was left to explain it to Albert herself, just weeks after the wedding.
Now, girl, the doctor said, eat red meat and salad, avoid exotic fruits such as bananas, and try again. Try again? They hadn’t been trying. He’d meant to pull out. Now, married, they’d try.
By now they’d settled, out of [REDACTED], but not out of the heart of the world’s happy controversies: no. They’d made their home in the official Socialist Utopian Village of the outer boroughs, Sunnyside Gardens, where the houses bounded courtyard gardens, the neighbors venting their lives one to another across a shared common. Yet with such struggles as soon overtook Rose and Albert, truthfully, they might have wished to be a little better partitioned from their neighbors’ overhearing. That first accord between them, had it been only a fever of hormones? Their marriage only a panic of pregnancy in the wake of brain-befogging stints of sheer fucking?
A baby would make it right.
They tried and tried. Four years of trying before his seed would take in her again and make Miriam. The girl arrived just in time to be assigned her own booklet of wartime ration stamps, born into a new world that no longer resembled the nascent utopia in which Rose and Albert had come together to start a family.
The marriage was by that time wrecked—on reefs of personality, on the lack of support from the two alienated families, and on Albert’s vanity, his uselessness at the task of anything but distant and unreachable revolutions. Rose worked as a bookkeeper in a pickle factory, toiling alongside the workingman. Albert was either above or beneath mere work: give him even a sheaf of pamphlets to distribute, and you’d find them stuffed into his suit’s pockets, his campaign to distribute them among the working classes having ended in some dialectical flirtation over drinks with a fellow-pamphleteer he just happened to run into. And then, soon enough, he was gone.
By 1948, the top men in [REDACTED] Communism had taken notice of Albert and decided that he needed correction, needed to be adjusted, from the status of dissolute husband and father, and pressed into service overseas. He was returned to [REDACTED], where his courtly manners made him an asset instead of a sore thumb. Now Rose was a reverse war widow, divorced from but still married to the sole Jew who’d run back to [REDACTED], run back because he wanted to dissolve his urbanity, his Jewishness, his Americanness, all in the solvent of the Soviet.
Men got through the Sunnyside Gardens door after Albert. Handsome, heavy of chest, Rose was seen by men and didn’t always flinch from being seen. Yet none of them ever meant anything to her. Apart from Lincoln, that is. For Rose had erected a shrine on the half-circle table in the apartment’s foyer, on which the six volumes of Sandburg’s “Lincoln” were aligned, and in front of them a small cameo portrait of the martyred President was propped. Albert moved out and Lincoln moved in. For any other man, an hour in Rose’s bed but not so much as a cup of coffee afterward. Let alone permission to stay the night. In the apartment, only Rose, Lincoln, and Miriam, the daughter who was repository for Rose’s whole self, her insurance against being forgotten.
H_e was six weeks a-fallin_’, Lord, Lord, Lord / And they had a feather-pickin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. For what seemed a year of life as her father’s letters—not many of them—came from Rostock, from Leipzig, locations, thanks to Lifemagazine, impossible to envision except as wholly deserving ruins, palaces of rubble, Miriam sat entranced or bored, stilled anyhow, mulling what Ives seemed to have to impart, cheery parables of ducks and whales and goats and geese. Once, Sol Eaglin, making one of his mysterious visits—dapper, bullshitting Comrade Sol—stopped in the living room to jape at Miriam and her album.
“What’s your kid know from ducks, Rose? You ever been to a farm, doll?”
“She knows from ducks,” Rose said. “She’s been to a Chinese restaurant.”
Animals, in Rose’s remorselessly unsentimental urban pragmatist’s views, were for eating, sure. (No filthy pets for Miriam.) Rose frowned at children’s books when they veered in directions zoological or anthropomorphic to any extent beyond Aesop, with his adamantine morals. (Always, with Rose, special emphasis on the bitterness of grapes, the inaccessibility of tidbits residing at the bottom of a vase: animals starved, animals rationalized, animals connived.) Sentimentalizing a duckling or a rabbit was associated, for Miriam, with her mother’s contempt for Catholic ritual: Easter eggs, bland milk-chocolate bunnies (“Only German chocolate is worth eating,” Rose would say, in irony and sorrow, then follow with her regular sighing incantation: “They made the very best of everything, of everything”), smears of ash, idiot Irish and Italian neighbors under the knuckle of idiot priests. So what was the anomalous gray goose, who wouldn’t be made a meal of, meant to signify? He was nine months a-cookin’, Lord, Lord, Lord / Then they put him on the table, Lord, Lord, Lord / And the knife couldn’t cut ’im, Lord, Lord, Lord / And the fork couldn’t stick ’im, Lord, Lord, Lord. Where was Aesop when you needed him? Of all the songs on the album, this was the one Miriam studied, helplessly. So they took him to the sawmill, Lord, Lord, Lord / Oh, it broke the saw’s tooth out, Lord, Lord, Lord. At last, one day, Rose took mercy on her daughter and explained. The answer, when it came, wasn’t difficult, though Miriam, at six, could never have guessed it.
Now, tonight, more than a decade later, on the postage-stamp-size platform in a Greenwich Village club so small that any table was front and also rear, the grapevines of smoke clinging to the ceiling providing an illusion of distance in a room that, cleared of bentwood chairs and voices and clamor and filth, would have been revealed as no larger than the Sunnyside Gardens parlor where Miriam had memorized her mother’s albums, yet which somehow made room for not only a stage and a side bar featuring Italian coffee and red wine but also for an intricate social world that Miriam was just learning to parse—here the tenor folksinger on the tiny platform crooned out exactly Burl Ives’s version of the folk song. Note for note, vocal gesture for vocal gesture, syllable for syllable. The last time I see’d him, Lord, Lord, Lord / He was flyin’ over the ocean, Lord, Lord, Lord / With a long string of goslins, Lord, Lord, Lord. The raffish blond singer offered up a version cribbed from a children’s LP, as if it had been dredged out of some mossy Appalachian music-finding expedition, or salvaged during some hobo’s stint working in a train yard or begging at the kitchen door of the very farm that had raised the gray goose itself. Miriam laughed at how smugly the rendition was gobbled up by those unqualified to know the difference—or who if they knew it would endure fingernail splinters before confessing that they were familiar with Ives’s version. The boy at her side turned, as he had each time that night she’d laughed for no evident cause, and said, “What?”
“Nothing.” All this she couldn’t explain, not to him. (Afterward, it would be his name, among so many here, that she, famous rememberer, resolutely couldn’t dredge up.) Then Miriam laughed again and said, “Do you know what the gray goose represents?”
“Eh?” 
“I’m asking what the gray goose represents. I just wondered if you knew.”
The song now finished, she’d gained the attention of their whole table, and the table beside theirs as well. Chairs, long since reversed so that chests creased against chair backs, cigarette-knuckled hands flung carelessly forward for ballast, now squeaked. The margin between different tables, between friends and strangers, those who’d arrived in one configuration and those who might later depart rearranged, in pairs or complicated threes or gaggles or alone, had been lost a while ago.
“Enlighten us, Mim,” said Porter, the clever one in horn-rims, the Columbia man. Eying her for several nights now but too genteel to pry her from the boy.
“Well, since you ask, the gray goose represents the irrevocable destiny of the working class.” Never had Miriam been so delighted to regurgitate a Roseism.
Leaning in from the next table like a Disney wolf, Rye Gogan said, “Ach, fella, beware—your girl’s a Red.” Rye, middle baritone of the Gogan Boys, an act too big for this stage (not only reputation-wise but in strict bodily terms, the three Irish louts in their thick brocaded vests would never have fit on this club’s riser), was the celebrity among them, not that any of them would acknowledge it. Rye Gogan was also already famous as something worse than a wolf. A drunken shark at an evening’s end. The girl farthest from shore at that point was traditionally doomed. “No, really, she is one,” Porter said. “Not like us paper revolutionaries, gentlemen. Mim grew up in a cell, she’s been to secret meetings. Tell them, Mim.”
“Meetings?” Rye growled. “Who hasn’t?” The Irish singer rounded his shoulders, that signature vest like a dank filthy sail hung from the rigging of his chest, and creaked his chair back toward his own party. Likely registering that engaging with Miriam’s table entailed simply too much smarty-pants confusion to be worth the bother now, even if he’d tabulated Miriam’s presence for some pending shark chase to shore.
“You have no idea,” Miriam said to Porter, and Porter’s friend, named, she was fairly certain, Adam, and the Barnard girl Adam had brought along, who’d said she was from [REDACTED], and who’d been looking sick for most of an hour already. “I have a pedigree. My father’s a German spy.”
“Can he get us into Norman Mailer’s party?” Adam said. Adam knew, or pretended to know, where the real action was tonight. Any crowded smoky basement or throngs on MacDougal or St. Marks to the contrary, all persons visible to their gaze were, ipso facto, losers like themselves.
“He’s not allowed into [REDACTED],” Miriam said, surprising herself with where this was going, but then seeing it play, like nearly anything from her mouth, in this company: thrilled amazement at what the wild child from Sunnyside might say next. Her fiercest sincerities were translated by the male ego, on arrival, into daffy flirtation. For instance, when Miriam said she was bored by jazz (worshipping at its longueurs, its brilliant “passages,” induced the same claustrophobia she always felt at sitting hushed through Rose’s Beethoven symphonies, being instructed in their remorseless dire profundities) and preferred Elvis Presley (cutting class to hide in Lorna Himmelfarb’s basement, listening to Presley having been the sole salvation in the final semester of her senior year at Sunnyside High), men like Porter went into paroxysms of delight at how the female could want to provoke them, never grasping the notion that anyone they’d ever be seen squiring, let alone this raven-haired Jewess with a vocabulary like Lionel Trilling’s, could possibly possess such backward tastes. No one who actually didn’t get jazz would ever admit it! And if you got it, man, well, you got it. Miriam, therefore, was a tease, ironist supreme. And with a figure.
“She’s dead serious,” Porter said now, fingering his frames Arthur Miller style, again sealing Miriam’s words with his only-I-get-it endorsement.
Miriam’s original boy had been morosely toying with the red wax pooling in their table’s blunt candle, dipping his fingertips to coat them, then jostling the little inverted fingerprints off to assemble, like a series of mouse-size bowls on the tablecloth, or tiny bloody footprints, a mock crime scene. Maybe trying to say that someone had placed a tiny dagger in his tiny heart. [REDACTED], Rye Gogan’s storm-cloud attentions had altered the barometric pressure at their table. While the folksinger interred his guitar to the mildest applause, a poet or comedian, some Lenny Bruce aspirant, stood waiting to commandeer the unnecessary microphone. He wore a cravat and clutched a sheaf of papers. Someone knew him. But someone knew everyone. Miriam believed she could get one or more of her admirers on their feet and outside, possibly even Porter among them, and suddenly wanted to prove that she could.
“What the hey. I’ll get us into Mailer’s party.”
“How?”
“With my secret Commie powers, of course.”
An hour later they stood braving a cold wind at the gentle summit of the [REDACTED] Bridge’s rotting-plank walkway, the East River’s boardwalk, and surveyed the transistor gleamings of the island they’d exited, contrasting it with the low-roofed smolder of [REDACTED] Heights, the murk of their promised destination, Mailer’s party, down there somewhere, one of those faint flares amid a hundred thousand darkened bedrooms, the sea of sleepers beyond. Here they halted, stared. Boroughphobia. Fear of [REDACTED]. Miriam recognized it in her companions and laughed, but silently, not wanting to incite her unmemorable boy to another automatic, threatened “What?”
Miriam felt it in them, this cohort she’d manufactured by calling them out of the folk basement: their collective reservations at being dragged to this brink, the bridge’s perihelion, the immigrant shores. For the moment, at least, this seventeen-year-old [REDACTED] College freshman dropout had called their bluff. The Barnard girl, Adam’s date; Adam himself; and solo, enchanted Porter, interested but too sweet to be predatory; and Miriam’s grown-sullen date, too. Miriam’s ad-hoc committee, hercell.
So forget Rose’s secret meetings, her living rooms, her smoky kitchens. Forget Rose’s sidewalk speeches, her tirades against the residents of the dead utopia of Sunnyside Gardens, corrupted by the onrush of coming disappointment, seeking scapegoats for their stupid guilt at their wasted lives. This night, right here, with [REDACTED] splayed before them, a banquet they feared to eat, Miriam understood clearly for the first time that her Secret Commie Powers were not actually a joke: Miriam Zimmer understood tonight she was a leader of men. Not just men slavering over her curves or astonished at her wit or haunted by her Jewish mysteries or dazzled by her fluency with the city’s mad systems—the subway lines, the Staten Island ferry terminal and its pigeon population, the significance of a Dave’s egg cream on Canal Street, the parsing of baseball affiliation since the Dodgers and the Giants had fled to [REDACTED] (no, you couldn’t just suddenly become a Yankee fan, not while Sandy Koufax and Jake Pitler still lived), her ease with Negroes, her allusions to veiled knowledge, the transparency to her of symbols like the gray goose—but all of it, all. Surviving Rose and Sunnyside Gardens, that suburb of disappointment, had made Miriam sublime, a representative of the League of Absconded Kings or [REDACTED]. And, seeing it, she laughed aloud, and of course Forgettable weighed in with “What?”
“Listen.” Miriam’s favorite idiot bar bet gained a new allure here as they shivered on the bridge. The answer would be staring them in the face and they’d still blow it. “I’ll bet anyone here five bucks they can’t name an island in [REDACTED] State that has a bigger population than forty-eight of the fifty states.”
“That’s dopey,” Adam said. “[REDACTED], of course.”
“You’re dopey. It’s [REDACTED]. You owe me five bucks or your last cigarette.”
“But, hey, who’s counting?” Porter said, leaning in with his own still plentiful pack, tapping a cluster of cigs halfway out. Fingers mobbed in, and then for an instant the five smokers were melded in physical purpose, clustering to bell-jar Porter’s match from the night’s wind, each dipping a cigarette’s tip to the flame. Ladies first, then, once the match was inevitably doused, finishing with the square dance of touching lit to unlit tips. Night workers edged in darkness past them, heads bent, ignorant of the city’s splendor and misery, filing toward sour bedrooms. Fear of [REDACTED]: there was plenty to fear, Miriam knew, though not what her companions imagined.
“I’m freezing,” Forgettable said, evidently intending them to understand him to mean frozen out. Miriam’s date had given up petitioning with his shoulders and elbows to clutch Miriam to him, as Adam and his Barnard girl were clutched, the girl’s shoulder inside Adam’s tweed jacket, her arm vanished within his shirt at the waist. Forgettable’s last few attempts had been despondent anyhow, as though he sensed the turn things were taking. For Miriam was changing hands tonight, Porter sweeping her away, if something so completely under Miriam’s agency could be granted to Porter’s. It surely would be. Miriam being just a girl, after all. Miriam plunged her cigarette’s orange tip into the night. “Charge!”
“Screw Mailer,” her former date said. As if that were an option, in lieu of what he’d never get from Miriam. “I’ve got to get up in the morning. I’m going back.”
“We’ll walk you,” Adam said. This sudden defection sealed Miriam’s transfer more absolutely than she might have wished; after a flurry of embraces, she and Porter hoofed it down the [REDACTED] slope of the bridge, just the two of them, while the others retreated to [REDACTED]. Miriam considered him entirely for the first time, her new courtier: with his funny knobbly gait, embarrassed or melancholic shoulders, and gigantic forehead, Porter was really drawn along Arthur Miller or Robert Lowell lines, though with his labored quipping he might be trying to pass as Mort Sahl. Leery Rose, in the right mood, might give him a chance on the basis of a resemblance to Abraham Lincoln. But then why would Miriam need her mother’s approval? She cancelled the thought.
“Look,” she said, again pointing her cigarette past the bridge’s descent into [REDACTED] Heights. “Remsen Street, it’s one of those, terminating at the Promenade.” In her imagining, the glamorous town houses would be visible, a crest of terraces peering back across the water at [REDACTED], and one of them declaring itself by throbbing with jazz and cocktail clatter, clouds of marijuana smoke, genius conversation. In truth, all that was visible there was a dark barricade of greenery, seemingly more than a mile beyond and below them, across the silent river’s mouth.
“Which?” Now, committed, Porter sounded nervous.
“It’ll be obvious from the street. We’ll hear it a block away, I expect.”
“If not, it isn’t worth going,” he bluffed, regaining his confidence. Yet that very bluff carried them merely a stride or two more on the bridge’s downward slope. Porter’s confidence had some other purpose, now that they’d shed their companions. Only when you’d finally shaken them free, those couple-disguising little mobs, the self-chaperoning cocoons that blobbed around everywhere together, were you reminded of their uses. Porter kissed her. Miriam kissed him back, just as ravenous, even if strategizing how to delay or undo it, or where they would go, or what it would have to mean. Porter’s cold fingertips had already found gaps in the buttons of her dress at her tailbone, causing some electrical outline to quiver along the contour of her buttocks, to her feet, which attempted to stay rooted on the walkway’s planks. Porter was tall. Miriam got up on her toes, a half-measure, a compromise with an impulse to drop in a swoon to her knees or lift off into the sky.
Precisely to the same degree that she’d been mothered in disappointment, in embittered moderation, in the stifling of unreasonable expectations, in second-generation cynicism toward collapsed gleaming visions of the future, the morose detachment of the suburbs, Miriam was in fact a Bolshevik of the five senses. Her whole body demanded revolution, her whole character screamed to see high towers raised up and destroyed. Every yearning Rose might ever have wished to dampen had been doubly instilled in her daughter. For all her quashing of utopias, Rose had merely been proving Miriam’s innate suspicion that life was elsewhere. For God’s sake, you could see the Empire State Building framed at the foot of Greenpoint Avenue! And, for what felt like ten years, Miriam had been observing the special appearance and attitudes of the girls who had enrolled at City College but still lived at home, or at least kept rooms in their homes, in Sunnyside Gardens: the knowledge behind their new cat sunglasses, the cigarettes they sneaked and the gossip they ceased to spout on the communal back patios when nine- or ten- or twelve-year-old Miriam wandered up. Miriam knew that these girls were telling her her future and wondered why they bothered to conceal it. Miriam could see the Empire State Building now, past Porter’s shoulder as she pulled her mouth from his and leaned and gasped for air and stalled for time, her cheek against his arm. The stupid beckoning phallic symbol, brazenly named for the nation’s criminal aspirations yet paradoxically bearing with it the pride Rose had instilled in Miriam for being an American and a 556e6974656420537461746573er, the dull amazing monument was always there, stabbing the air, calling to her, crushing her like a bug in advance. You’re nobody so special, Miriam Zimmer!
Except here on the bridge, upper lip already raw in the high wind from Porter’s five-o’clock shadow’s scraping, Miriam felt all the freedom accorded to nobody special as a power equal to the Empire State’s mass and force. Had anyone ever already known what Miriam knew at seventeen? It seemed unlikely. And tonight she would know more. She was going to let Porter be the first to make love to her, because he was just special and not-special enough to be the one to do it. That night beginning on the bridge, as she’d already half started to call it. “Take me somewhere,” she said. 
There, with her words, to which Porter panted his grateful consent, began the insane night that had already had so many beginnings. First, withdrawal to [REDACTED], not boroughphobia now but total uninterest in Mailer or the dark roofs or the cold sky or anything outside of themselves and their skins. If they could have left their clothing on the bridge, they might have done that. The I.R.T. at [REDACTED] Bridge took them to Union Square, where in a high-backed booth in the Cedar Tavern they fondled and entwined tongues until asked to leave. They repeated the performance at the Limelight coffee shop, to which Miriam had dragged Porter after he’d expressed a dazed uncertainty as to where else to try—they’d have had more privacy in a corner of Mailer’s party, which she’d fully visualized by now as consisting of sultry Bennington girls being serially deflowered in piles of coats. They briefly had more privacy in Washington Square, where for another turbulent session they settled on a bench. But whenever they quit walking, and Porter’s hands resumed inching inside her already flimsy coverings, Miriam started to freeze. “Why can’t we go to your rooms?” she whispered.
Porter looked at her, not for the first time, with an admiration suggesting that Miriam was Wuthering Heights mad. “There’s a strict dorm policy.”
“I thought you Columbia men were trying to change that.”
“Trilling stood against us,” Porter bragged, proud anytime he could cite that name. “He seemed confused that we’d even want women in the dorms, leaving their nylons around, as he put it—”
“So why don’t you make a stand?” Miriam shamelessly gave this the Marilyn Monroe treatment, lips at his ear. “Protest for your cause.”
“My roommate,” Porter said helplessly. “I couldn’t—”
The virginity Miriam trailed around with her was an anchor, one she vowed to cast off before dawn. So they rode the subway again, to Grand Central, and she guided him downstairs to the track where the 7 line would carry them to [REDACTED], then to the back of the platform. Miraculously, a train hovered, panting slightly with its doors open. They boarded and it took off as if it had been waiting for them. “After the river the train goes elevated, Porter. I’ll show you something you’ve never seen before.”
“What’s that?” he said dreamily. They’d walked with their fingers enlaced, pulling downward to draw each other close, his hip at her waist, her breasts at his ribs, each awkward rubbing step a kind of prolongation of the endless makeout session the night had become. On the train, they stood against a door, unwilling to discontinue the contact between the lengths of their bodies, letting the car’s lurches buckle his knee into a place between her legs.
“You’ll see. The greatest curve in the system,” Miriam teased.
“I actually think I know what you’re talking about.”
“That’s when you can be certain you’re wrong.”
“Nothing you could show me that was curved could be wrong.” What was this talk, so stupidly enchanted, so seemingly drunk on each other’s wit and promise? Or should the question be: How much red wine had she unthinkingly guzzled at the Cedar Tavern?
The [REDACTED]-bound train scraped moonward out of the darkness, into the constellation of streetlights and signage along Jackson Avenue. “Holy heck!” Porter shouted. “It’s like a roller coaster!”
“No, I told you,” she said, styling her formulation after Porter’s manner, and leaning into his ear to put it over, above the elevated’s rattle and shriek. “That was nothing, brace yourself. The real curve’s the next one, watch.” She urged him against the door’s windows, to take it in fully. The 7’s lead cars obligingly jackknifed into 43616e616461boro Plaza. “It’s the only place in the system where you can watch the front cars of the train you’re on pull into a station from the rear cars,” Miriam said. Hammering the point home, she felt like Rose. Like she’d picked up Rose’s hammer of personality to impress the Columbia boy, to bonk against his broad, pretentiously daft forehead. (How could you go to so much trouble to arrive in [REDACTED], as the throngs at Columbia and Barnard had, and not ride the system?) As if Miriam’s life-exuberance pointed back toward Rose’s punitive ferocity, just the way the I.R.T. screamed in the direction of home.
She tried to see Sunnyside’s Forty-seventh Street through his eyes. The slumbering apartment blocks, the tended shrubbery and flagstone walks, Miriam’s home borough some false vision of calm, an immigrant’s dull fantasy of American sanctuary that suddenly turned her stomach; she hurried him past. Only they had exited the train at the Bliss Street station, and now, on the sidewalks, they passed no one. The whole journey might have been a dream she’d had, once she’d tiptoed inside through the Gardens and the kitchen door, and swept Porter into her bedroom, only he was still blithering about the elevated’s rocket ride, so that she had to hush him until her door was safely shut. She stuffed a towel along the jamb as if to enjoy a secret cigarette.
At this point, the dream of night—or morning, she’d glanced at Porter’s wristwatch on the street and the time was 3 a.m.—veered toward squalid comedy. The two of them remaining on their feet, in some shyness still unwilling to commit to her bed, Porter struggling with one or another of her fasteners and buttons, forcing Miriam to add her hands to his and solve whatever problem he’d been muttering over, so that before very long she was completely nude while he still wore his entire outfit. In exasperation she lay down on the bedspread. “Take off your shoes, at least,” she whispered.
“Have you got an, um, pessary?”
“Pessary?” She tried not to snort at the absurd term, which struck her as Midwestern, if not actually Victorian. “Do you mean a diaphragm?” What, was he afraid to remove his clothes for fear of pregnancy? Should she lie? Yes. “Yes.”
“You do?”
“It’s taken care of, Porter.”
Miriam flashed on Rye Gogan and his reputation. Where was the masculine devourer when you needed him? Must you swim with sharks to get sharked? Take me, she wanted to tell Porter, yet refused to have to tell him, on the principle that even men in tortoiseshell glasses were meant to transform into animals in the dark. Perhaps especially men in tortoiseshell glasses, according to the cartoons in Playboy, Lorna Himmelfarb’s older brother’s copies of which she’d perused during Elvis-auditing sessions in the Himmelfarb basement. Something should be swarming Miriam, apart from her yearning to be swarmed. She got Porter onto the bed. Pulled him by the belt. Unzipped and researched inside. Oh, Lord, the boy, nicely long and rigid, Chinese-finger-trapped by desire in his too-tight boxer shorts, wasn’t circumcised. He also blurted his goop into her palm at the same instant that she groped the knob and discovered its stretchy hood. Then, sighing, Porter covered her lips and chin and nose with a flurry of seeking kisses, as if both grateful and falsifying the record. See, I’m ravishing you, therefore I must have been all along!Instead, she’d accidentally ravished him.
And it was at that moment that Rose came barrelling in, a titan, Alice’s enraged Red Queen in her quilted robe, her gossamer nightdress beneath it, her expression a storm of reproach, and the story abruptly had nothing to do with their bodies, with Miriam’s nakedness and desire and what Porter was or wasn’t going to do about it. All that was left of that story was how fortunate Miriam could feel, in retrospect, that she’d got so little of Porter’s clothing off. Even knowing that Rose had seen nothing, Miriam had time for the stray, absurd thought: Abraham Lincoln wouldn’t have been circumcised, either, so Rose couldn’t object to that, could she?
“Should I call the police?”
“No, Mother.”
“No Mother what?” Rose seized any occasion for a mental test, a verbal duel—why miss what was there for the taking?
“Don’t overreact, Rose, for God’s sake.”
The room flooded with light from the living room and foyer behind Rose, every lamp switched on, as though her mother had been awake for a duration of eavesdropping and pacing, and for expert selection of the awkwardest instant to make this confrontation.
“Don’t tell me how I should react. Don’t tell me what to do. If I don’t call the police it’s less a mercy than the fear they might arrest me for parental dereliction.” Rose’s bold, rising, theatrically superb declaration ran over a thin, husky, stuttering sound, something that might have been an attempt on Porter’s part to apologize or introduce himself or both, even as he juggled his glasses back onto his face and pinched at his zipper and his disordered trousers. Rose detoured to a Barbara Stanwyckian quip: “By the way, it’s rape, Mister, unless you happen still to be in high school yourself.”
“Nobody was raped,” Miriam said, letting her disappointment color the word with scorn for Rose and Porter both. “And I’m not in high school, thank you.”
“You ought to be. This matter of skipping a grade makes you think you’re a woman now? The bosom on you fooled this young man, fair enough, but how can it have fooled you as well? Perhaps you’re ready to become parents of a child. It’s not as much pleasure as you’d think from the way it begins, making babies.”
“Nobody’s making any babies.” Miriam thought of the word “pessary” again. As long as Porter was present, this scene was only comic overture to the crisis, the explosion struggling to begin.
“I tried to raise a young woman but apparently produced an American teen-ager in her place. No doubt the fault is mine, yet it’s also the case that the result was sabotaged in a thousand ways. First by the father, who couldn’t be kept at home. In that, of course, the fault is surely mine. We fought terribly. I couldn’t keep him fascinated in ways a freethinker like you appears to have already mastered, but what two lovebirds like you couldn’t imagine is the world I brought this girl into. A battlefield. Not a playground for children in the bodies of adults. You’re in a hurry to grow up—we gave up our childhoods before we knew we’d given them up. Before I plunged my arms into pickle brine, I slaved in the back of that candy shop. This one, Miriam, ah! Look at the expression! He wouldn’t know what a barrel of halvah was if I shoved it in his face.”
Halvah! Miriam found herself issuing a sharp guffaw.
“How could you,” Rose cried at Miriam’s laughter. “If I was dying it wouldn’t stop you doing as you wished. No doubt you’d step over my body on your way to Greenwich Village or to a man like this one, whose name you won’t even condescend to share with me. Step over my dying body on your voyage to where the squares wouldn’t go. But I hardly imagined you’d shower me with laughter as you went past.”
“You’re not dying, Rose.”
“I am inside.”
That’s how you know you’re still alive, Miriam wanted to tell her. Dying inside was for Rose a way of life. Within her mother was a volcano of death. Rose had spent her whole life stoking it, trying to keep the mess contained but fuming. In Rose’s lava of disappointment, the ideals of American Communism had gone to die their slow death eternally; Rose would never die precisely because she needed to live forever, a flesh monument, commemorating socialism’s failure as an intimate wound.
Miriam started humming, the song entering her mind unbidden. Last Sunday morning, Lord, Lord, Lord. Oh my daddy went a-huntin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. It had been a trick question, she realized now, a paradox beyond even Aesop’s devising. How could you possibly learn the identity of the gray goose by asking the gray goose? For, after everything, this was at last unmistakable: the gray goose—inedible, adamantine, undead, warping any implement that dared glance in its direction, let alone one that dared to attack—was none other than Rose Zimmer.
Oh, an intervention was desperately needed, but the difficulty was in how little offense Porter gave, how few grounds for ejection. He stood dopily awaiting his turn, which would never come. Miriam now wished Porter would make some move, any move, even in panic, to incite Rose into showing him the door. Instead, Rose, measuring his passivity, latched on to a listener. Miriam couldn’t count how many she’d seen frozen on a square of sidewalk at one of Rose’s stunning harangues, though she’d never been draped naked in a sheet while a would-be boyfriend played the part. Maybe Porter was about to begin taking notes, as if at Trilling’s own feet. Miriam had to do everything herself. She elevated from the bed like a ghost or a muse in her drapery and took Porter’s elbow and guided him past a momentarily jaw-frozen Rose, back through the kitchen. Though Porter was apparently properly dressed, he moved as awkwardly as if he wore his jacket backward, his shoes on his hands.
“Go.”
“I’m so sorry. When can I—?”
When can I what? Miriam thought, an exact Rose Angrush Zimmer cadence, except Rose would have said it aloud. What in this performance was Porter eager to reflect on or repeat? She craned on tiptoe for a quick kiss, surprising herself by wanting one. She’d after all fondled Porter’s secret heartbeat, collected his private sigh. They had, after all, been romancing across a connect-the-dot map of Miriam’s city for hours past, hours of what now seemed another night, another life entirely.
The light in the Gardens was morning light as Miriam stood at the kitchen door in a sheet, pushing her Columbia boy through the gap. Porter, she realized, could be from [REDACTED] for all he grasped of the creature with whom he’d passed the night. Miriam might be altering herself at a furious rate into that other thing, the girl Porter believed he’d deviously squired out of the basement club behind the stalking horse of her official date, then halfway across the [REDACTED] Bridge and back, then to [REDACTED] to find himself more or less raped and accused of rape within a span of minutes, but she wasn’t there yet. And so, as Porter wobbled along the light-blotted lanes of the Gardens and vanished, Miriam closed the door and withdrew to face Rose.

