
Happy Trails
By Sherman Alexie
Forty-one years ago, my uncle Hector said he was hitchhiking to Spokane, walked out the door, and disappeared. I was only seven years old and he was my favorite relative. He’d be seventy-two now. He left as a randomly employed blue-collar reservation alcoholic, but, if he hadn’t vanished, he probably would have sobered up and become a tribal elder. Indian men live wild-horse lives, running beautiful and dangerous, until some outside force—some metaphorical cowboy—breaks them. I imagine that Hector, in his senior years, would be the Head Man Traditional Dancer at every third powwow. He’d probably be as fat as I’ve become. Indian dudes come in two sizes: the slender, androgynous boys who make the girls go crazy and the aging men who, with their big bellies, skinny legs, and fossilized feet, look like overfed chickens.
Over the years, I’ve lost two other uncles and three aunts, to cancer, heart disease, and car wrecks. One uncle survives, in [REDACTED], but I rarely see him. My father died, from diabetes, seven years ago. I’ve got three cousins in prison, three living in poverty on our reservation, and a beautiful and distant cousin who married a Lakota and moved to South Dakota. When we were twelve, we made out in a tree house. I still think she’s the most beautiful woman who’s ever lived. And I loved her so much, romantically and inappropriately, that I’ve never bothered to kiss any other woman.
Best thing my gorgeous cousin said to me: “If we lived in Old England, then we could get married. If we were royalty, then we could have a dozen babies.”
I still live with my mother. The rest of the world would call me a failure, I suppose, but Indians don’t judge adult Indians for remaining in the family home. Everything—our worst losses and our greatest beauty—is deemed sacred and necessary.
Best thing my mother ever said to me: “You know what’s inside an Indian self-help book? Pictures of other self-help books.”
Anyway, four decades after my uncle Hector walked into nothingness, I decided that we needed to bury him.
“But there’s no body,” my mother said.
“Don’t need one,” I said. “We can bury the memory of him.”
“I think he might still be alive,” she said.
“If he were still alive he would have come back. Or written a letter. Or called. Something. Hector was too good to leave us hanging.”
“He was a good man.”
“Yes,” I said. “A great man.”
Actually, Hector was only sometimes great. But we need to make the dead better people than they were, because it makes us look better for loving them. Mostly, Hector was a temperamental asshole. He drank, did drugs, and got into fistfights like he thought every white man was a cavalry soldier. I knew that, as he hitchhiked toward Spokane, he’d picked a fight with the wrong guy, or a group of toughs, and had been beaten to death. I was no visionary, but whenever I closed my eyes I could see his bones scattered and scoured by wind and wild animals. I could see the holes pounded into his skull. With a tire iron. I can hear that metal striking bone. That was Hector’s destiny. Violent men die violently. Warriors get murdered. 
Because my mother was good at funerals (she cooked, cleaned, sang, drummed, and held the hand of whichever mourner was hurting the most at any particular time), she decided that, yes, it was time to hold Hector’s wake. Most of the tribe came to mourn Hector. We sang the correct songs, gave the proper eulogies, and stayed awake for two days.
Best part of the funeral: We had an open and empty casket.
Best joke about the open and empty casket: “Hector was such a showoff that I’m surprised he hasn’t come back from the dead to lie in his coffin and die again.”
Best sad thing said about Hector: “He wasn’t afraid of any white man. But white men weren’t afraid of him, either.”
We put the empty coffin in a truck bed and hauled it over to the Catholic cemetery.
Yeah, we Coeur d’Alene Indians are the best Catholics you’re ever going to meet. When we eat the bread and drink the wine we’re eating and drinking Jesus, Mary, and all twelve of the Apostles, even that traitor Judas.
We lowered Hector’s coffin into the ground and, after everybody had thrown a handful of dirt into the grave, we buried him completely. Then everybody went away.
Best thing said in parting: “A hundred years from now, white archeologists are going to open that coffin, find it empty, and wonder what it all means.”
Then, at the graveside, as the starlings pulled down the sun and the mosquitoes raised the moon, it was just my mother and me. She whisper-sang an old mourning song. I didn’t know it, so I couldn’t sing with her. My mother could be stingy like that. Keeping the old traditions locked inside her rib cage. She’d rather let them die than have them corrupted by a cell-phone Indian like me.
Anyway, as she sang, I stared at Hector’s wooden grave marker, carved with his name, date of birth and date of disappearance, and a few random tribal glyphs. I wondered if it was possible for an Indian to die peacefully. I’ve got a photograph of Hector, as a baby, being held by his grandmother [REDACTED]. She was born before the Civil War, so, yes, my favorite uncle was only one degree removed from slavery. [REDACTED] was a teen-ager, living on the newly created Coeur d’Alene Indian Reservation, when Custer and his soldiers were righteously killed at Little Bighorn, in [REDACTED]. Hector was only one degree removed from the Indian Wars. And [REDACTED] was the mother of three kids, the first generation of our tribe to be born and live in a house with four walls, when the U.S. Army got its revenge by massacring hundreds of unarmed old people, women, and children at the so-called Battle of Wounded Knee, in South Dakota. Hector was only one degree removed from genocide. How could he have become anything other than a violent man who died violently?
Yes, crime begets crime begets crime begets an Indian man who probably hitched a ride with some drunken, seemingly friendly white boys who killed him. Or wait, no. Here’s the thing that I don’t want to admit. Here’s the thing that no Indian wants to admit. Hector wouldn’t have fallen prey to any carnivorous white men. He wouldn’t have got into a car with white strangers. Or gone to some party where only white men would be present.
On that last day we saw him, setting off for Spokane, Hector would have accepted a ride only from other Indians—and only from Indians he knew. So Hector was almost certainly murdered and disappeared by another Coeur d’Alene Indian or by a war party of his own tribal members. I imagine it was mostly an accident. They were probably drinking too hard, as they were always drinking too hard. And, drunk, Hector probably insulted somebody. Or admitted that he’d fucked somebody’s wife or girlfriend or daughter. And then they’d probably parked the car on a back road so that Hector and his opponent could fight it out. Half-assed warrior against half-assed warrior. And I imagine that a lucky punch shattered Hector’s skull. Or maybe Hector challenged everybody to a fight. Maybe he decided he was tough enough to kick the shit out of every Indian at the same time. Maybe he thought he could kill the world and instead learned that the world is undefeated.
As I sat at my uncle’s empty grave, I hoped that the Indians who killed Hector had sung him an honor song when they buried his body deep in the woods. I wished that one of those killers would send me an anonymous letter and tell me where the body was buried. So I could disinter my uncle, carry him to the cemetery, and fill the empty space in his coffin with his bones.
I imagined that all my aunts, uncles, and cousins were buried in Hector’s empty coffin. I knew my late father was also in that grave.
Best thing my father ever said to me: “All my kids were accidents. But you’re the best accident. You’re a car wreck with eagle feathers.”
Standing in that cemetery, I felt like the only Indian that mattered and the only Indian that didn’t. I was alive, damn it, and I planned to live longer than every other Indian in the world. 

