
We Didn’t Like Him
By Akhil Sharma
We didn’t like him. Manshu was fourteen, and we were eight or ten, and, instead of playing with boys his own age, he forced himself into our games. Often, he came out into the lane and, if we were playing stick-stick, he’d say, “Give me the stick.” Intimidated, we’d hand it over.
The lane had three- and four-story houses on both sides, so closely pressed together that the alley was always in shade. Once, we were playing cricket in the lane, Manshu batting. Nobody could get him out. The boy who was bowling, an eight-year-old, became angry and flung the ball away. Manshu twisted the boy’s arm behind his back, forcing him to his knees. Then he gently tapped the top of the boy’s head with the cricket bat, as if the boy were a wicket being driven into the ground.
Manshu was large, dark-skinned, round-faced. He was my father’s sister’s husband’s sister’s son. Since he belonged to my aunt’s husband’s family, we had to show him the respect due to a family that takes a daughter away. The fact that I had to show deference was one more reason that he irritated me. And, because I was related to Manshu, the other boys treated me badly. They blamed me for his behavior, as if my family were responsible for whatever he was doing.
Manshu’s father had died when he was six. He lived with his mother in a large room on the second floor of an old house. The room had a high ceiling and blue-green walls. The nicest thing about it was the swing that hung from the center of the ceiling.
Manshu’s mother had diabetes and got tired easily. Many evenings, after she had gone to bed, Manshu would visit our house. When he came, he paid no attention to me. Instead, he addressed himself to my parents. He had a way of speaking that suggested that he understood other people’s motivations. “Uncle,” he said to my father once, “you know what Mrs. Kohli is like.” When he spoke as if he knew things, I would think, Who are you to talk this way? Because I was eight and cruel, the way children are, I also thought, Why do you think you can talk when you don’t even have a father?
My parents belonged to a generation that is mostly gone now, those very formal men and women who measured distance with kos and counted change in annas. When Manshu visited, my mother made him sherbet and presented it to him on a tray, the way she would have served it to an adult toward whom the family had to show respect.
My parents were polite with Manshu, but periodically they showed that they found him irritating, too. Once, my mother told my father that everything Manshu said was probably an echo of something his mother had uttered. Another time, when Manshu passed seventh standard and his mother went around the lane giving out boxes of sweets, my father said, “Surely he must have cheated.”
Manshu’s mother was always fainting. She would pass out in the lane, and some neighbor would come and hold a glass of glucose water to her lips until she got up again. One day, when Manshu was sixteen, she fainted in the alley, but this time she didn’t get up. 

For a while after she died, I did not believe that she was actually gone. A mother dying was the sort of thing that happened only in movies. I somehow imagined that Manshu’s mother would come back in a few weeks, and that she would be angry when she returned. She would accuse everyone of disloyalty for having thought she could die.
Not long after her death, I went to Manshu’s room with my parents. It smelled as it always had, of medicines and rubbing alcohol, of incense and cooking spices. I was disturbed by the fact that nothing had changed. It seemed confirmation that a horrible thing could occur and it would not matter. If Manshu’s misfortune could be ignored, then I, too, might suffer misfortune and be treated this way. I got scared. I wanted to leave so badly that I did not care if I hurt Manshu’s feelings.
Manshu was handed over to my aunt’s husband, who lived a few lanes away, but he continued to spend time in our lane. At first, I was embarrassed whenever I saw him. He was quiet, meek. He appeared chastened. His hunched shoulders would remind me that his mother was dead, and then I’d feel ashamed of my own good fortune.
Now, at our cricket games, if he batted for a while and nobody could get him out, he would surrender the bat and let somebody else take a turn. This thoughtfulness was due, perhaps, to the fact that his uncle did not like him; Manshu must have felt that he had no one to take care of him, and so he was afraid of offending. It may also have sprung from the tenderness we all feel when someone we love dies.
At some point, Manshu began to visit the temple in our lane. The temple was narrow, with a marble-floored courtyard that had idols along all four sides and a tulsi bush in the center. In a larger temple, Manshu might have been able to sit quietly without attracting attention, but Gaurji, the pandit, who lived on the second floor of the temple, saw it as his home. He did not like people to be there, except for prayers. To Gaurji, they were intruding in his house. He would glower at the women who wanted to do service and came in the morning to wash the temple floor. He was irritable and slightly paranoid, as many pandits are, feeling underpaid and not respected.
Manshu, because he was spending so much time at the temple, began to join Gaurji at each prayer. There were prayers in the morning, the afternoon, the evening, and the night. During these, he sat right behind Gaurji. When Gaurji, bare-chested and skinny, his white dhoti wrapped around his narrow waist, rang his bell and blew on his shell, Manshu’s high wavery voice stood out.
My father was part of the committee that oversaw the temple, and Gaurji, of course, found it suspicious that somebody related to my father was spending so much time there, watching him. Once, Manshu asked to look at the prayer books and Gaurji began hitting him, slapping his face and shoulders. “What do you want?” he shouted. “At last, tell me what you want.”
Manshu began to be religious. He was now seventeen or so. He stopped playing with us and started wearing sandalwood paste on his forehead. When he met somebody on the street, he said, “Ram, Ram,” instead of “Namaste,” to show his piety.
Manshu’s religiosity became commonly known. Some women did their afternoon and evening prayers at home and liked to have another person present, because they felt that it would be more flattering to God to have two people praying than one. Manshu began to visit these women and sit before their altars as they sang. They would give him tea and crackers. My father found this embarrassing, as if Manshu were praying in exchange for food.
Manshu also bought some pamphlets on fortune-telling and astrology and started reading palms. He practiced, at first, on us children. We sat a step below him in the stairways of houses in the lane, our hands outstretched. When he read mine, I asked him whether I would be famous. “No,” he said. This made me doubt that he could forecast the future.
He told me that I would own a dog and have problems with my knees.
Manshu did not do well in higher secondary. He wasn’t able to get into college and so began studying for his B.Com. through correspondence school. He graduated in 1988. It is hard now to believe how difficult it was to get a job in 496e646961 before 1991 and the economic liberalization. People would graduate from college, even good colleges, and remain unemployed for three or four years. Manshu became a tutor and continued to live with his uncle.
I didn’t do especially well in higher secondary, either. I did get into law school, but it was a [REDACTED] medium one, rather than one taught in English. While I was in law school, I came home regularly. It was strange to see Manshu still wandering the lanes, still going into people’s homes to pray with them. He had grown a potbelly and he had a little Brahman ponytail now. He wore slippers, instead of shoes, as if he had to keep removing his footwear to enter sacred spaces. So much was changing in my life and so little in his that I began to see Manshu as simpleminded.
The difference between the late eighties and the mid-nineties was so great that it was as if there were decades separating them. When Manshu graduated from college, everyone wanted a government job. When I graduated from law school, everyone wanted to work for a foreign company. I was not smart enough to get a job with a multinational, so I opened an office near the courts in Tis Hazari. It was a tin-roofed shed in a lane of tin-roofed sheds that were rented by lawyers. During the day, I’d walk up and down the alleys, past tea stands and men sitting on stools beneath trees, typewriters before them. I talked to other lawyers—the fortunate ones in black gowns who were going to appear before a judge, and the rest, who, like me, wore dress pants and white shirts with pens in their breast pockets and their business cards rubber-banded in their pants pockets.
When I moved into the Tis Hazari office, I had a prayer ceremony performed in the shed. Manshu sat in the center of the concrete room and lit a fire, and soon the place was full of smoke and it was hard to breathe. Still, I sat there and sang prayers. Why not, if it might bring luck? Also, inviting the other lawyers in the lane to the prayer ceremony was a way of getting to know people.
To cultivate business, I began helping my father with his volunteer work, which was how I started dealing with the committee that oversaw the temple. 
No pandit ever wants to leave a temple. It provides free housing and reasonable pay for not much effort. Also, one has an almost complete monopoly over the ceremonies held in nearby houses, and this can double or triple one’s income. But Gaurji suffered a series of small strokes, and they made him even angrier. One winter evening, during prayers in the temple courtyard, he took the plates of food that had been put before the various gods for their dinner and began throwing them at the people who were seated cross-legged waiting for the prayers to start. I was there when this occurred. He called us sisterfuckers and ass-sniffers. He stood before us, so angry that he was trembling. His eyes were dilated. I have only once or twice seen someone possessed and, watching Gaurji, I had the same sense of astonishment that I had when I witnessed a woman at Nizamuddin Dargah holding on to the marble jali, shouting, “Mercy, mercy,” as people chanted nearby.
Gaurji’s youngest son wanted to replace his father; like me and Manshu, he had done poorly in school. My father wanted to give the position to Manshu. He and the temple committee went to the temple and told the son that Manshu was going to be the new pandit.
The next morning, when the two old women who washed the temple floor arrived, the building’s blue wooden doors were chained from the inside, the chains clanking whenever they tried to push them open.
The doors remained chained for several days. People walked past and said angry things, before touching the temple steps and then bringing their hands to their foreheads.
Eventually, to drive out Gaurji and his family, we had to turn off the water and the electricity.
Almost immediately after he became pandit, Manshu got married.
He used to go on pilgrimages to Vaishno Devi three times a year. He returned from one of these with a non-Brahman girl. He came back at night, entering the lane on foot, because an auto-rickshaw’s rattle would have drawn too much attention. He must have been ashamed, because he told no one in advance about the marriage and, even the next day, he did not visit us or his uncle to announce the news.
The girl was Vaishya—her family sold firewood and coal—and this upset my father. He sat on a chair in our courtyard, his pajamas rolled up to his knees to sun his legs. “Always in his heart, I sensed there was selfishness,” he said. “Now he’s going to turn the temple into a business.”
I tried to calm him. “I am a Brahman, and I am as business-minded as a Vaishya,” I said.
I went to the temple to see Manshu. I agreed with my father that Manshu had behaved dishonestly, that he should have told us of his intention to marry out of caste before we made him pandit, but I was used to dealing with conflict by then, and I went calmly.
Manshu and I sat in one of the small rooms on the second floor, a low-ceilinged room that was like a cell.
“I knew you would not be angry,” he said quickly, as if to preëmpt whatever I might say.
“How can I be angry at your happiness?” I asked. I did not care that Manshu had married out of caste. It was awkward, though, that he had done this so soon, while everyone in the lane was still aware of how much my family had done to support him.
“Meet your sister-in-law,” he said, and called out, “Aruna.”
The woman who came through the door was short and round and fair-skinned. She looked like a Russian nesting doll. I got up and went and touched her feet. She gave a surprised laugh at being treated so formally. “Will you have tea?” she said.
Before I could answer, Manshu spoke. “She has diabetes, just like Ma.” He was smiling, and he said this almost proudly. His pride struck me as odd, and being reminded of his mother took me aback. Since I no longer thought of her, it had not occurred to me that his mother continued to be real to him.
After this, I treated Manshu and his wife the way I would a business contact. I dropped by the temple in the evenings to say hello. I made sure to tell people to use Manshu for prayer ceremonies, and I let him know that I had made the suggestion.
My father’s suspicions about Manshu’s plans for the temple turned out to be correct. One day, Manshu came to my office. “How can I get on TV?” he asked, sitting on the other side of my desk. He wanted to be one of the yogis or miracle workers who are always on the cable channels. I said I guessed that you had to have a connection with someone who worked for the cable channels. He asked if I knew anyone like that. I did not. 
Manshu then put an ad in the Times of 496e646961, a small box at the bottom of one of the middle pages, in which he claimed that praying at his temple might cure cancer. My mother said that he should go to jail. My father did not speak, only glowered.
For a few weeks, people came into the lane holding the cutout ad, asking for the temple.
I visited Manshu one evening soon after the ad came out and asked him how effective it had been. We were standing in the temple courtyard. “You need a lot of money to make advertising work,” Manshu said. “One or two ads is not enough.” He said this angrily, as if his not having enough money for a lot of ads were some kind of injustice.
He put another ad in the Times of 496e646961. This time, when people came to the temple courtyard with the cutout ad, he performed miracles. He had learned some magic tricks and did such things as hold out an open palm before the visitor, close it, and then open it again to reveal blessed ashes.
Although the ads did not get him consistent new worshippers, they did help, in that he began to be asked to perform prayer ceremonies outside the neighborhood. The mere fact that he had been mentioned in the newspaper made him appear famous, and people liked to have somebody famous pray for them.
The worst thing that Manshu did, in my eyes as well as in my father’s, was start a small phone business at the end of the lane. Near the mouth of the lane, where it merged into a commercial street, were several shops, each about the size of a closet. One of these belonged to the temple. Originally, there had been an idol there, so that people could pray on their way out of the lane to start their day. Gaurji, however, had convinced the temple committee that he needed more money, and his son had begun selling various knickknacks from there. Now Manshu put a phone in the closet and a curtain across it so that boys and girls who wanted to make friendship calls but did not want to use their cell phones could use the booth. It was improper for a pandit to be involved in this kind of business, but even worse was the fact that it was Manshu’s wife who ran it. When a customer was in the booth, Aruna would come out into the lane and chatter with the other stall owners. She was popular with them for her willingness to be ordinary, but many of us felt that she was giving our lane a bad name.
In those days, Manshu only rarely came to our house. He was busy and had a wife he wanted to spend time with. My father, who did not actually want to see him, began to view his not visiting as disrespectful. It is hard to be around someone who has strong opinions without being influenced by those opinions. I, too, started to feel that Manshu was abusing us. It occurred to me that he had tricked us, that he had taken advantage of our family relationship to become the pandit, and then had turned the temple into a business. I continued to see Manshu regularly, though, just as I continue to do business with people who strike me as immoral.
When my father was sixty-seven, the doctors told him that he had cancer. He went into the hospital for an operation, came out, and then had to go in again. He had chemotherapy, which caused his hair and his teeth to fall out. He became frail. His skin turned red, as if it were burned. Sometimes I sponge-bathed my father in his bed at home, patting him with a handkerchief, because a towel was too rough. Even the handkerchief could cause his skin to peel and bleed.
Near the end, he developed a lung infection. When I told him that I had to take him back to the hospital, he started to cry. “Why? What purpose will that serve?” he said, weeping.
I wanted him to go on living, though, so I told him that he was worrying for no reason. Because he was so afraid and lonely in his white room at the hospital, I asked everyone he knew to visit. I went to the temple several times to ask Manshu. He did not come, though his wife did. It was around then that I began to hate him.
I was with my father when he died. He was in his bed, open-eyed and hallucinating. “It’s me. It’s me,” he said, right before he passed.
I took my father to Kanchi, a village by the Ganges, a hundred kilometres from 496e646961, where many of the families in our lane perform cremations. As I walked around the pyre before it was lit and put the clarified butter on my father, I felt embarrassed, as if I were doing something wrong by pouring ghee on the nice silk kurta that he was wearing.
After the cremation, I asked Manshu to come to the house and lead the singing of the prayers. I did this because I wanted my father, even in death, to be surrounded by people he knew. People came and sat cross-legged in the courtyard. Manshu sat on cushions in a corner, singing and playing a harmonium. His cell phone was lying on the cushion beside him. Periodically it would ring and he would gesture for us to keep singing while he answered the phone with one hand and played the harmonium with the other.
I was standing in a corner during the ceremony. It was a beautiful day, and it seemed awful that my father was not there to see it. I also felt as though I were failing my father. He deserved more than this, and I had not provided it.
I left the courtyard and went out into the lane. I walked toward the end of the alley. I was the only person there. As I walked, I panted. Halfway down the lane, there was a scooter, and a cow eating some trash. I could hear the sound of the prayers at our house dying down, and this made me feel worse. Once the prayers were over, all the rituals would be done and my father would somehow be more dead. 
I came back to the courtyard and stood at the entrance. My mother was sitting near Manshu, her head covered with a fold of her white sari, rocking and weeping, surrounded by women, who were caressing her. Manshu looked up at me from his cushions and said, “Won’t somebody say something about the soul that has departed?”
I hate this eulogizing thing which has started up in 496e646961. To me, it is a Western fashion. The pandits now watch American movies and they want to be seen as doing the latest, most advanced thing.
I remained silent in my corner.
“Will you let him go without saying anything?” Manshu said to the crowd. “Is he so little loved?”
One of my uncles, who was sitting on the floor near me, tapped my ankle.
I began speaking. “Ji, you all know what a kind man my father was. You know how he helped found orphanages.” As I spoke, I started to sob. I was angry that this intimate thing had been turned into a display. “You know that, when my grandfather was dying, for two years he lay on his cot and my father took such good care of him that he never developed a bedsore.”
I hated Manshu for years after that. It seemed to me that he was pathologically selfish, that any decent person would have visited a dying relative, that any decent person would have tried to be humble during the funeral prayers instead of drawing attention to himself.
I stopped dropping by the temple. When we passed each other in the lane, I didn’t speak to him.
Manshu’s wife gave birth to two children, a girl named Priya and then, a few years later, a boy named Rahul. As a diabetic, she was taking a risk. The girl was born without complications, but when Aruna gave birth to the boy she went into a coma. My mother sat in the temple with the many people from the lane who had come to pray for her.
Aruna woke from her coma, but she remained unhealthy afterward. Years passed. Her black hair began to have white in it. She kept going in and out of the hospital. Manshu had bought a white van, but he sold it to pay the hospital bills. Aruna still sometimes sat outside their phone booth. Other times, they hired a neighborhood boy to oversee it. Eventually, she died.
Manshu was not close to his father’s side of the family, so he asked me to help with the funeral. I had to do everything, from hiring the jeweller to come and snip the nose ring out of Aruna’s nostril to buying the coconuts and grass used in the prayers. Manshu did not have enough money for a wooden pyre. I arranged for an electric cremation. I arranged for the jeep that took the body to the crematorium, and I hired a minibus to take people there. All the while, as I was doing this, I felt stupid for helping someone I hated.
Many people are vile. When I went with Manshu to pick up the ashes, the man who made us sign a register and then gave them to us in a white cardboard box said that often people didn’t bother to pick up their relatives’ remains. “That is family love,” he said, his eyes bloodshot, speaking with the bitterness typical of government employees.
I wanted to take the ashes directly to Kanchi, but as we were getting into the car Manshu asked if we could first go back to the lane. He said that the children needed to salute their mother. It was a bright, hot day. I sighed loudly, obviously. I wanted to say no, to tell him that I did not have time to waste. Shame kept me from saying this, of course.
All the way back into the city, the traffic was stop and go. Manshu sat with the box in a red duffelbag in his lap. We parked opposite the mouth of the lane, with the busy street between us and the lane’s entrance. Priya appeared, holding her brother’s hand, and as she led him across the road Manshu started sobbing. He got out of the car and left the bag on the seat and told his children to wait while he went and bought some flowers.
He left the car door open. I thought about closing it so that the air-conditioning wouldn’t escape. But it felt wrong to separate the children from their mother’s ashes. Manshu returned. He unzipped the bag so that we could see the box. “Say what I say,” he told them, and led them in a prayer, gesturing for them to put handfuls of geraniums in the bag.
The drive to Kanchi took hours. At some point, Manshu fell asleep, his chin tipping into his chest. I looked at him as I drove and remembered my father’s funeral ceremony, Manshu sitting in the corner talking on his cell phone. I felt that I was a fool. I did not have the courage to take revenge.
Kanchi’s primary industry is funerals. You get off the highway and almost immediately there is a parking lot, because most cars are not allowed to drive in. Along the lanes from the parking lot to the river, there are only flower shops and the restaurants where families eat a meal before going back home. The village’s temples stand in a line by the river, and between them and the gray-green water is a steeply sloping sandy bank covered with shacks. Outside these, young men, Brahmans, in tight pants and cheap white shirts, stand waiting.
Manshu sat on a cot beside one of the shacks, and a young man led him through the prayers. The cardboard box was open before him and there was a plastic bag inside, with ashes and flecks of bone, like shards of seashell.
It was all depraved. In the middle of the prayers, the Brahman turned to me, since I had selected him, and asked me to give him more money than we had agreed to. I told him that he had no shame. He said the next part of the prayer, so that Manshu could keep going, and then repeated that I needed to pay more. We agreed on a new amount, and then the prayers were finished.
Manshu and I walked down to the long wooden boats by the river. Several boatmen, short and wiry, approached us as we reached the water. Again, as Manshu held the bag against his chest, there were nasty negotiations, with the boatmen demanding outrageous amounts. “Tell them that we need to go to the middle of the river,” Manshu whispered. Often, the boatmen would stroke only a few yards from shore and demand that one pour one’s ashes there. “You tell them,” I wanted to say.
We got into one of the boats and the boatman poled us into the river. In the distance was a bridge, and on the other side were large buildings with chimneys. Manshu sat in the bow with the red duffelbag in his lap.
It was now midafternoon, and for a while there was only the creak of the pole in its lock and the splash of the water. It was hot, and I was sweating heavily. The boatman pulled his pole out of the water and let us drift.
After a few minutes, he began stroking again so that we would not be caught by the current.
“Manshu, brother,” I said. “You have to do it.”
“She’ll be all alone,” Manshu murmured. “We won’t be here and she’ll be all alone.”
I did not know what to say to this. I was sitting a few feet from him. I got up and crossed the boat. The boat tipped beneath me, and the boatman moved from one side to the other. I took the box from the bag. “Let me help,” I said. Manshu looked up at me, startled. I took out my car keys and used one to tear open the plastic bag. I held the bag out over the river with one hand and shook the ashes into the water. Feeling the bag lighten, I realized that I was doing something wrong. When I poured my father’s ashes into the river, I had been glad that I was doing him this service, that I was taking care of him in this way. It was not fair to Aruna that someone outside her family was pouring her ashes into the river. It was not fair to Manshu that I was taking away this chance to care for his wife.
Once the bag was empty, I dipped it into the river and drained it so that all the ashes were gone. I flung the bag into the water. I threw the box also, and the government form that said that the ashes were human remains.
Near Kanchi is a village famous for the deities that craftsmen there make out of clay and straw. The villagers advertise their wares by standing the statues along the edge of the road. We drove back toward 496e646961, past half a mile of gods. In the car, holding the steering wheel, I could still feel the bag lightening in my hands. Not knowing what to say about the terrible thing I had done, I spoke to Manshu about the future. “You have to think of Priya and Rahul. They only have you now.”
I parked the car by the mouth of our lane and phoned my mother and waited. After a few minutes, women began to appear, carrying buckets. It is a ritual in our families, after we have put someone in the Ganges, to bathe before we reënter the lane. Manshu and I got out of the car and took off our shoes and shirts. It was strange to feel the road beneath our bare feet and the hot polluted wind against our bellies. Then we tied towels around our waists and took off our pants and underwear. Scooters and bicycles stopped behind us and then slowly went around.
Before bathing myself, I bathed Manshu. I poured water on his head and then on his neck and back. I kneaded his fat shoulders. I rubbed his back with soap, his skin warm and the sun on my hands. I knelt down beside him and washed his legs and feet. 

