Valentine
By Tessa Hadley
Madeleine and I are waiting at the bus stop at the bottom of Beech Grove in our school uniforms: green print dresses, short white socks and sandals, blazers. In the summer, we are allowed to leave off our hated green felt hats. It’s June, and summer is thick everywhere, a sleepy, viscous, sensuous emanation; hot blasts of air, opaque with pollen from the overblown suburban gardens, are ripe with smells from bins and dog mess. We are mad with summer, chafing and irritable with sex. We are fifteen, studying for our O levels; we have breasts (small in my case, luscious in Madeleine’s) and pubic hair and periods. A breeze, stirring the dust in the gutter, tickles up around our thighs, floats our dresses—we can hardly bear it.
Our talk is rococo with insincerity, drawling, lascivious. Everything seems to have an obscene double meaning_,_ even though it’s only quarter past eight in the morning and, behind us in our homes, our mothers are still clearing the breakfast tables, scraping soggy Rice Krispies and burned toast crusts into the bin, wiping the plastic tablecloths. My mother is bending over my little brother, Philip, in his high chair, playing pat-a-cake to trick him into letting her wipe his face and hands, making his mouth spill open with delighted laughter. She lifts up his shirt and kisses his belly; I might be jealous, if I had time to crane that way, back toward home and the cramped circle of old loves. But my attention is all thrusting forward, onward, out of there. I’ve burned my boats, I can’t go back—or, rather, I do go back, dutifully, every evening after school, and do my homework at the same table in the same stale olive-green dining room, and still get the best marks in the class for everything, nearly everything. But it’s provisional, while I wait for my real life to begin. I feel like an overgrown giant in that house, bumping up against the ceiling like Alice in Wonderland after she’s found the cake labelled “Eat Me”: head swollen with knowledge and imagination, body swollen with sensation and longing.
Madeleine is my next-door neighbor and best friend. She and I have never even kissed boys: we have no actual sexual experience except a few things we’ve done with each other, experimentally, and out of desperation. (Not shamefaced afterward—flaunting and wicked; it is the nineteen-seventies, after all. But it’s boys we want.) At an all-girls school, we don’t get many chances to meet boys, although there are usually some on the bus, on their way to the Grammar School. This is part of our excitement, at quarter past eight. There are certain boys we are expecting to see, and we may even pluck up the crazy courage to speak to them, a word or two; any exchange will be dissected afterward in an analysis more nuanced and determined than any we ever give to poems in English lessons. (“What do you think he really meant when he said that his friend said yesterday that you weren’t bad?”)
Anything could happen on the bus in the next half hour; even something with the power to obliterate and reduce to dust the double maths, Scripture, double Latin, and (worst) P.E. that lie in wait at the end of the journey—a doom of tedium, infinitely long. And, after P.E., the nasty underground shower room with its concentrated citrus-rot stink of female sweat, its fleshly angsts, its tin-pot team spirit, the gloom of girls passed over, the P.E. teacher’s ogling, the trodden soaking towels.
Something has to happen.
Into our heat that morning comes Valentine.
He walked down to join us at the bus stop. We’d never seen him before: into the suburban torpor his footsteps broke like a signal for adventure on a jaunty trumpet. I loved his swaggering walk immediately, without reserve. His eagerly amused glances around him—drinking everything in, shaking the long hair back from his face—were like a symbol for morning itself. (His energy was no doubt partly a result of the Do-Dos—caffeine pills—he’d have swallowed in the bathroom as soon as his mother got him out of bed. Soon we were all taking them.) A Grammar School blazer, hooked by its loop around one nicotine-stained finger, was slung over his shoulder; his cigarette was cocked up cheekily between lips curved as improbably, generously wide as a faun’s. The pointed chin was like a faun’s, too, and the flaunting Caravaggio cheekbones, pushing up the thick flesh under his eyes, making them slanted and mischievous. He was tall, but not too tall. His school trousers slid down his impossibly narrow waist and hips; he tucked his shirt half in with a careless hand. The school tie that others wore resentfully as a strangled knot became under his touch somehow cravat-like, flowing. The top two buttons of his shirt were undone. He was sixteen.
He grinned at Madeleine and me.
At me first, then at Madeleine—although Madeleine was willowy and languorous, with long curls and a kitten face, pink cheeks. I was too small, too plump and shapeless, and my eyes, I knew, were blackly expressive pits in a too-white face. Madeleine, trying kindly to advise me on my sex appeal, had said that I might be “too intense”—but I didn’t know how to disguise my intensity. Valentine stopped and offered us his cigarette, me first. It was not an ordinary cigarette. (We went to school stoned for the first time, but not the last.)
“Hello, girls,” he said, beaming. “Does this bus go into town? Do you catch it every day? That’s good. I like the look of you.”
We met each other’s eyes and giggled, and asked him what he liked about us. Thinking about it, surveying us up and down, he said we looked skeptical.
What did he mean, skeptical?
Thank God we weren’t wearing our hats.
I longed for the bus not to come. Proximity to his body—a glimpse, via his half-tucked shirt, of hollowed, golden, masculine stomach, its line of dark hairs draining down from the belly button—licked at me like a flame as we waited. His family, he explained, had just moved to one of the posher streets behind Beech Grove. When the bus did come, he sat on the back seat and took Beckett out of his rucksack: “Endgame_._” The very title, even the look of the title—its stark, indiscreet white capitals on a jazzy orange cover—was a door swinging suddenly open into a new world. I’d never heard of Beckett; I think I was plowing through “The Forsyte Saga” then. None of the other boys on the bus read books. Val smiled at us encouragingly, extravagantly, over the top of his. 

“He was gorgeous. I liked him,” Madeleine conceded as we trudged in a tide of other green-gowned inmates up the purgatorial hill from the bus stop to where school loomed, the old house frowning like a prison in the sunlight. “But I couldn’t actually fancy him, could you? There was something weird.”
I was disappointed in her; I was already wondering if I’d find Beckett in the local library. (The librarian, warmly supportive of my forays into Edwardian belles-lettres, would startle and flinch at my betrayal.) Madeleine didn’t insist on her doubt—she never insisted—and I closed the door on that early intimation of danger. I wanted Val because he was different—as I was different. What I’d felt at my first sight of him that summer morning was more than ordinary love: something like recognition. When I read later in Plato about whole souls divided at birth into two halves, which move around in the world ever afterward mourning each other and longing for their lost completeness, I thought I was reading about myself and Valentine.
And it was the same for Val; I do believe that it was. He recognized me, too.
“What a scarecrow,” my stepfather, Gerry, said, after Val came to my house for the first time. “I can’t believe the Grammar School lets him get away with that hair.”
“He looks like a girl,” my mother said. “I’m not that keen, Stella.”
Following up the stairs behind Val, I had been faint from the movement of his slim haunches in his tight white jeans. How could she think that he looked like a girl? Yet all we did in my bedroom was cozy up knee to knee, cross-legged on the bed, to talk. We swapped our childhood stories. He was born in Malaya; he’d had an ayah_._
“What was your family doing in Malaya?”
“You don’t want to know.”
“I want to know everything.”
“My father worked for the government; he was an awful tax expert. Now that he’s retired, he’s just awful and old. What does yours do?”
“Gerry’s not my real dad. My real dad’s dead.”
Mum brought in a pile of ironed clothes to put away in my chest of drawers. Then she called up to ask if we wanted coffee. Philip came knocking at the door, asking us to play with him. Afterward, Mum spoke to me awkwardly, about self-respect. The familiar solidity of the house and its furniture melted away around Val; after he’d left, I couldn’t believe I really lived there. I couldn’t hold my two worlds in the same focus. I wanted Val to be brilliant for my parents, and he wouldn’t, or couldn’t. He never made any concessions to them. If they asked him questions, he sometimes didn’t even seem to hear them; his eyes were blank. It was as if he simply paused the flow of his life, in the presence of anyone unsympathetic.
Yet among our friends he was magnetic, commanding, funny. He was a clever mimic. We started getting together at Madeleine’s in the evenings—a gang of six or seven of us from the streets round about. Madeleine’s father was often away; her mother, Pam, was bored and liked flirting with teen-agers. She brought homemade brownies and cheese straws and jugs of weak sangria to Madeleine’s room, and we cadged her cigarettes. Madeleine fancied a boy who played the guitar and wrote his own songs; we tried to talk a shy blond girl out of her faith. Madeleine bought a red bulb to put in one of the lamps; we draped the others with colored scarves. When Gerry was sent over to fetch me home, he never stepped across the low fence between our front gardens but went punctiliously via both front paths and gates. He said that if Pam wanted teen-agers carrying on under her own roof it was her business.
“What’s this?” he joked, when I brought Beckett back from the library.
“He’s a play writer. Haven’t you heard of him?”
“Playwright.” (Gerry did crosswords—he had a good vocabulary.) “Aren’t they all waiting for some chap who never turns up?”
Gerry had been so keen for me to go to the High School, yet he was hostile to the power my education brought me. He thought I was putting on airs—and I expect I was. I was probably pretty insufferable, with my quotations from Shakespeare and Gerard Manley Hopkins, my good French accent. (I corrected his: “Ça ne fait rien,” not “San fairy ann.”) He could still usually trip me up, though, in geography or history—my sense of how things fit together was treacherously vague. Gerry knew an awful lot; he was always reading. He subscribed to a long series of magazines about the Second World War, which he kept in plastic folders on a shelf. Already, invidiously, however, I had an inkling that the books he read were somehow not the real books.
He was amused and patient, correcting my mistakes. He did it to my mother, too: as long as he had the upper hand, he was kind. If I had given in gracefully to that shape of relations between us—his lecturing me and my submitting to it—we might have been able to live happily together. My mother didn’t care about his corrections; she just laughed at him. (“Oh, for goodness’ sake, Gerry—as if it mattered!”) But I couldn’t give in. I wanted everything I learned to be an opening into the unknown, whereas Gerry’s knowledge added up to a closed circle, bringing him safely back to where he began, confirming him.
I took Beckett up to my room.
It wasn’t the kind of writing I was used to. I’d taught myself to stir in response to the captured textures of passing moments—the subtle essence of unspoken exchange, the sensation of air against the skin. Now I learned to read Beckett (and then, under Val’s influence, Ginsberg, Burroughs, Ferlinghetti) like a convert embracing revolutionary discipline, cutting all links with my bourgeois-realist past.
“Is he your boyfriend, then?” Madeleine wanted clarification.
I was disdainful. “We don’t care about those kinds of labels.”
“But is he?”
“What does it look like?”
Val and I were inseparable. We saw each other almost every day—not only on the bus going to school and coming back but in the evenings, as often as my parents allowed me to go out or said he could come round. They claimed they were worried about my schoolwork, but I didn’t believe them. I saw my mother recoil from what she dreaded—the dirty flare of sex and exposure; my making a fool of myself. (They were so innocent, I don’t think they guessed about the drugs until much later.) Sometimes I went out even when they’d forbidden me to, and then there was trouble. When I got home, Gerry took me into the lounge for one of his lectures, screwing up his forehead, leaning toward me, pretending to dole out impartial justice. From my dizzy vantage point (high as a kite), I believed I could see right through him to his vindictiveness, his desire to shoot me down when I was flying.
“They hate me,” I said to Val. “Under his pretense of being concerned for my future, he really hates me. And she doesn’t care.”
“Don’t mind them,” Val said, his eyes smiling. He blew out smoke. He was serene, bare feet tucked up on his knees in lotus position. “They’re just frightened. They’re sweet, really, your parents.” 
We were talking in his bedroom: a drafty attic where his books and clothes lay around in chaos on a Turkish carpet gray with cigarette ash, so unlike my little pink cell. Val’s attitude toward his own parents was coolly disengaged. I was afraid of them—I tried to avoid meeting them on my passages through the rambling house (built when Stoke Bishop was still the countryside). They were both tall and big-boned. His father was stooped, with brown-blotched skin, long earlobes, and thinning white hair. His mother had a ruined face and huge, watery eyes; she wore pearls and Chinese jade earrings at the dining table in the evenings. (Unlike us, Val’s family actually ate in their dining room.) They were polite with me, and their conversation was as dully transactional as any in my house, yet in their clipped, swallowed voices they seemed to talk in code above my head.
They never came up to his attic room. Sometimes his mother shouted up the stairs, if a meal was ready or Val was wanted on the telephone. We were private up there. I loved the evening shadows in the complex angles of the sloping ceiling. In summer, the heat under the roof was dense; in winter, we cuddled up for warmth under the blankets on his bed. Our bodies fit perfectly together—my knees pressed into the backs of his, my breath in the nape of his neck, his fingers knotted into mine against his chest; we lay talking, or listening to the Velvet Underground, Janis Joplin, Dylan. The shape of the long, empty room seemed the shape of our shared imagination, spacious and open. I couldn’t believe the long strides he made in his mind, all by himself. Sometimes, depending on what pills he’d taken, he would talk and talk without stopping.
“How do you know that I really exist, outside you?” he asked me urgently. “I might be a figment of your imagination.”
Our heads were side by side then on his pillow. How lucky I was to lie like that, so intimate with his lovely looks that I couldn’t see them whole: teasing green eyes, down on his upper lip, curving high hollows in his cheeks. I longed for him to begin kissing me, as he sometimes did, but I had learned that I must not try to initiate this—he didn’t like being hurried into it. “I just know!” I insisted, stroking his face as if the feeling in my fingers were proof. “And I’m not a figment of yours, either. I’m really here, I promise.”
“I believe in you. I’m not so sure about me. You’re solid. You’re fierce.”
I wasn’t as solid as I had been. Since meeting Val, I’d stopped bothering to eat. I couldn’t bear my mother’s gluey gravy any longer; I drank black (instant) coffee and gave up sugar. The weight had flown off me. Although I was small and Val was taller, we came to look like a matching pair: skinny and striking. By this time, we were on the fringes of a set who gathered at weekends in a sleazy bar behind a cinema in town. Val had a good instinct for the people worth getting to know: a man with freckled hands and a mane of red hair who sold him speed and other things; a clever art student, half Greek, who played in a band (they sounded like art-punk before punk had really happened). These men were older and more powerful, and a lot of people were eager to be their friends, but Val was able to impress them with his quick wit and cultural know-how.
I knew it mattered to Val that I look right. I wore his shirts and his sleeveless vests and his Indian silk scarves, over the tight jeans that he helped me buy. I put kohl around my eyes, and so did he sometimes. We both dyed our hair the same dark licorice color. (My mother was aghast, another scene—“Whatever are they going to say at school?”) I paraded up and down the attic in different outfits for his approval, getting the effect just right—and yet when we went out we looked as if we didn’t care what anyone thought. Val’s idea of me was that I was single-minded, fiery, uncomplicated, without middle-class falsity. (“But aren’t I middle class?” I asked, surprised.) And I performed as his idea, became something like it.
We made plans to live abroad together—in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED]. He’d been to both these places; I hadn’t been anywhere except Torquay and Salcombe. He talked about how we’d earn money and rent an apartment, and I believed that he really could make these things happen. There was a rare blend in him of earnestness and recklessness. And he seemed to know instinctively what to read, where to go, what music to listen to. He was easily bored, and indifferent to anything he didn’t like. Psychological novels were dreary, he said. The Beatles were consumer culture. I didn’t talk to him about the old-fashioned books I’d loved before I met him.
“In [REDACTED], I’ll work as a waitress,” I said. “And you can write.”
“Sometimes I think I could do something with my life,” he said. “But then, in the middle of the night, something awful happens.”
“What kind of awful?”
“I feel as if I’d already done it, this important thing—writing a book, or whatever it is. I feel as if it were a mountain to climb, and I’ve toiled up the mountain and achieved the thing and then I’m coming down the other side and it’s behind me, and it’s nothing. It doesn’t alter anything in the world by one feather’s weight. And then when I wake up I panic that, because I’ve already dreamed the end of the work, I’ll never be able to begin.”
But, more often, Val’s mood was buoyant and exhilarated—he was impatient to get started. Everyone assumed he would take the Oxbridge entrance exam, go to university. For the moment, he went along with the idea. “My English teacher at school,” he said, “he’s invested a lot of hopes in me. He’s giving me special tuition. I don’t know how to tell him I’m leaving, not yet. Soon I will.”
“Wherever you go,” I said, “I’ll follow you.”
We ran into him once—the English teacher, Mr. Harper. Val and I were arm in arm, walking down Park Street on a Saturday in the crowds of people milling about and looking in the shops—jeans boutiques, bookshops, places selling Indian and Chinese knickknacks and silver jewelry. A stubby middle-aged man was staring in a shop window; he veered away from it as we passed, almost walking right into us and then recognizing Val, putting on a show of surprise that seemed contrived, as if he’d actually seen us coming from miles off and prepared for this scene. I thought at the time that he was socially inept because he was such an intellectual. I knew that Val respected him, and that it was he who’d put Val onto Pound and Beckett and Burroughs. But I could see that Val wished we hadn’t met him—he seemed shocked by this collision of the worlds of school and home.
“Hello, Valentine,” Mr. Harper said. He was staring leeringly at me. “What a good way to spend your Saturdays. Aren’t you supposed to be revising?”
“We’re on our way to the reference library,” Val said sulkily, blushing.
“Oh—then I mustn’t get in the way of virtue! God forbid. But I will see you Tuesday, after school?”
“Is it Tuesday?” Val was vague. “I’m not sure.”
“You must come on Tuesday. We’re broaching the divine Marianne.”
I was disappointed. Val had talked about Fred Harper (the boys doing the Oxbridge entrance called him Fred) as if he were a portal to higher things, yet here he was chaffing and prodding about work like any other teacher. Also, he was rumpled and pear-shaped, with pleading eyes, and a bald patch in his hair, which was dark and soft like cat fur. He had a drawling posh voice. I knew that there was a Mrs. Harper and also children; and that Mrs. Harper got bored if her husband and Val talked for hours about poetry. Sometimes she went to bed, leaving them to it.
“Who’s the divine Marianne?” I said jealously when we’d walked on.
Valentine shrugged, irritated. “A poet in the A-level anthology.”
Mum and Gerry were afraid I was bringing a contamination into their house. When I bought junk-shop dresses, Mum made me hang them outside in case of fleas. Val found an old homburg and wore it pulled down over his eyes.
“What does he think he looks like?” Gerry said.
“What’s the matter with that boy?” Mum asked. “What’s he hiding from?”
He stood in our neat kitchen with its blue Formica surfaces, as improbable—in his collarless shirt, waistcoat, and broken canvas shoes, with a scrap of vermillion scarf at his neck—as an exotic bird blown off course. Even in those days, when he was fresh and boyish, the drugs left some kind of mark on him—not damage, exactly, more like a patina that darkened his skin to old gold, refining its texture so that minute wrinkles appeared at the corners of his lids when he frowned. His eyes were veiled and smoky. He smelled, if you got up close: an intricate musk, salty, faintly fishy, sun-warmed even in winter—delicious to me.
“Hello? Anybody home behind that hair?” my mother said.
Val looked at me quickly, blissfully. Later, he would imitate her for our friends. While he was with me, everything was funny. Without him, I was exposed, on a lonely pinnacle—afraid of tumbling. They were still strong, my parents. I couldn’t, wouldn’t, yield to their judgment of what I loved, but it weighed on me nonetheless, as monumental as a stone. If I tried to carelessly condescend to them, they found me out. I was clever, I was still doing well at school, but Gerry was clever, too.
“What’s so wrong with Communism?” I’d lightly say, trying to be amused at their naïve politics. I really was amused—I knew about so much beyond their blinkered perspective. I’d read poets and visionaries, and “The Communist Manifesto.” “Doesn’t it seem fairer that everyone should start out equally, owning a share of the means of production?”
“It’s a nice idea, Stella,” Gerry said. “Unfortunately, it doesn’t work out in practice. People in those countries wouldn’t thank you for your high ideals; they’d rather be able to buy decent food in the shops. The trouble is, a command economy just isn’t efficient. Breaks down because of human nature in the end. Every man naturally wants to do better than his neighbor.”
Because he knew those words—“command economy”—and I didn’t, how could I answer him? His knowledge was flawed, but substantial—an impregnable fortress. My attacks on it—so effective when we were apart, and Gerry dwindled in my imagination to a comic miniature—faltered in his actual presence, so that I battered at the fortress with weak fists. Even in the seventies, the old order hadn’t changed much. Young people wore their hair long and had afghan coats and went to music festivals—some young people did those things. But at the top, bearing down on everyone, there were still those ranks of sombre-suited men (and the occasional woman): politicians, professors, policemen—inflexible, imperturbable in their confidence about what was to be taken seriously and what was not. You could jeer at them, but their influence was a fog you breathed every day, coiling into your home through their voices on radio and television and in newspapers. Gerry said that Africans suffering in a famine should know better than to have so many children, or that feminists did women no favors when they went around like tramps, or that there was no point in giving to charities because it was well known that they spent all the money on themselves.
As for my mother, cleverness could never beat her. In my mind, I was convinced that her life—housework and child care—was limited and conventional. But, in my body, I was susceptible to her impatient brisk delivery, her capable hands fixing and straightening—sometimes straightening me, brusquely, even when I had half grown away from her: a collar crooked or a smudge on my cheek, which she scrubbed at with spit on her handkerchief. She was in her late thirties then, and no doubt she was very attractive, though I couldn’t see it—compact good figure, thick hair in a short bouffant cut, definite features like strokes of charcoal in a drawing. Probably she was sexy, too. In her withholding and dismissing manner, she seemed to communicate that women knew the prosaic and gritty and fundamental truth that underlay all the noise of men’s talk and opinion. Something I ought to know, too, or would come to know sooner or later.
I wanted to resist knowing it with all my force.
The summer I got my O-level results (all A’s, apart from a C in physics), my uncle Ray got me a job at the chocolate factory where he worked. I wept to Val about how the women there hated me and gave me the worst tasks (I had to take the molds off the hot puddings—at the end of the first day my fingers were blistered), because I was only a student worker and because I took a book to read during my breaks. I wanted him to tell me to give it up, but he didn’t. I think that he actually liked the romance of my working there—it was not “middle class.” He said he loved my Bristol accent. Really? Did I have one? I didn’t think so; my mother had always strictly policed the way I spoke at home (“ ‘I wasn’t doing anything,’ Stella, not ‘I weren’t doing nothing’ ”). Apparently, however, I said “reely” for “really,” and “strawl” for “stroll.” “Your mother has an accent, too,” he said. “Broader than yours. Can’t you hear it? But I prefer it to the way my parents speak.”
Valentine and I were bored one night with the flirting in Madeleine’s bedroom. He rolled a joint—quickly, with the fingers of one hand, as only he could—and we went outside to smoke. The moon, watery white, sailed in and out behind dark rags of cloud blown by the wind; we lay spread-eagled on our backs on Pam’s lawn. Only our fingertips were touching—through them we communicated electrically, wordlessly, as if we were emptying ourselves into each other. As the dope went to my head, I thought I felt the movement of the world turning. 
Then I was sure that someone was spying on us from our garden next door. Madeleine’s garden was perfunctory, compared with ours: there was a patio swing with chintz cushions, and a birdbath on the scrappy lawn, a few plants in the flower beds. Ours was densely secretive behind fences top-heavy with clematis and rose and honeysuckle; it had a trellised arbor and young fruit trees and a rockery, which Gerry had built to make a feature of the old tree stumps left behind by the developers. I despised his prideful ownership, the ceaseless rounds of pruning and spraying and deadheading. And it occurred to me now that he might be hidden in there. He did walk out into the garden in the dark sometimes—“to cool off,” he said. If he was there, he’d be skewered with irritation, snooping involuntarily.
Val began to stroke my hand, rubbing his thumb around my palm, then pushing it between my fingers, one by one, over and over, until I was sick with love for him. But I knew better than to make any move toward him—he didn’t like me all over him. There was a rustling from among the shrubs next door, and a head like a pale moon-blob rose above the top of the clematis mound.
“My stepfather thinks that I should get a job in a bank, when I leave school,” I said aloud to Val.
Surprised, Valentine turned his head toward me. “Do you want a job in a bank?”
“Of course not. I’d rather kill myself. But he thinks it would be good for me, and provide for my future.”
“He’s a cunt,” Valentine said. “What does he know about your future?”
“I know, he’s a cunt.”
The blob spoke. “Stella, come inside. You’ll catch your death. That grass is damp.”
Gerry’s voice in the night was sepulchral, ridiculous, tight with disapproval. Only when I heard it was I aware of myself sprawled so provocatively on my back, with my legs spread wide apart, my arms flung open. Let him look, I thought. I didn’t move. I pretended I didn’t see him.
“Did you hear something?” I said to Val, squeezing his hand in mine.
We were going to laugh—I knew we were.
“Come inside, Stella, now, at once,” Gerry said—but keeping his voice low, as if he didn’t want my mother to know what he had to witness. “I’m telling you. Get up!”
Pointedly, he didn’t address Valentine, ignoring his existence.
“I think I heard something,” Valentine said. “Or was it cats?”
Leisurely, Val sat up, crouching over the cold end of the joint, his hand held up to shield it from the wind and his hair falling forward, hiding his face. Then came the scratch and flare of the heavy, shapely silver lighter that had been his mother’s until she gave up smoking. Fire bloomed momentarily in Valentine’s cave; I saw him aflame—devilish, roseate. I scrambled to my feet. I really was stoned. The garden swung in looping arcs around me.
“Oh,” I cried, exulting in it. “Oh . . . oh!”
We were laughing now. Under my soles, the world rocked, and steadied itself, and rocked again.
“What’s the matter with you?” Gerry hissed. He must have been standing on something—a rock? a box?—on the other side of the fence, because it was too highordinarily to see over; his two fists, hanging on, were smaller moon-blobs against the night. “Are you drunk?”
(My parents still hadn’t understood what we were smoking.)
“You’d better come back the front way. Come round by the front door.”
“Back the front way, Stella?” Valentine imitated softly, looking at me, not at Gerry. “Front the back way? Which way d’you like?”
I had always had a gift of seeing myself as my stepfather saw me—only in this vision I used to be a small and thwarted thing, blocking him. Now, in the moonlight, I was transfigured: arms outstretched, veering like a yacht tacking, I was crossing the garden, flitting ahead of the wind, like a moth, weightless.
Valentine and I looked so consummately right as a couple: stylish, easily intimate, his arm dropped casually across my shoulder, our clasped hands swinging together. We looked sexy. I knew that because I saw it in others’ faces. But the truth was, we didn’t have sex. In all the time we’d spent lying on his bed (or, occasionally, on mine), we hadn’t done an awful lot for Mum and Gerry to disapprove of.
We did work ourselves up; there was some touching and fumbling. I touched him, mostly; if he touched me he turned it into a joke, put on a funny voice as if my breasts were little animals squeaking and crawling around on my chest. Kissing, he pecked dry kisses all over my face with a satirical, popping noise, smiling at me all the time with his eyes open. Then sometimes, if his mother banged the gong for supper, or the phone rang and she called upstairs to say that Val was wanted, he grabbed my hand with sudden aggression, pushed it down inside his jeans, and used it to rub himself fiercely and greedily for a moment, before he flung himself off the bed and ran to the phone, zipping up as he went, cursing, pushing his erection away inside. I wasn’t disgusted—actually, I’d say I was more fascinated—by my transgression into that crowded heat inside his stretched underpants, his smell on my fingers afterward. But also I was confused: if that was desire, it was unmistakably urgent. So what was the matter?
Who wants to remember the awful details of teen-age sex, teen-age idiocy?
I loved him because he was my other half, my twin, inaccessible to me.
One evening I was supposed to baby-sit while Mum and Gerry went out to a Masonic Ladies Night. I liked my baby brother very much: Philip was an enthusiast, always entertaining us with jokes and little performances, looking quickly from face to face for approval; he sat on his hands to keep them from waving about and swung his legs under his chair until it rocked. When Mum came downstairs, perfumed and startling in a silver Lurex bodice and a stiff white skirt, he and I were laughing at “Dad’s Army” on the telly. She stood clipping on her earrings by feel, giving us her instructions. The whole process of her transformation, she managed to convey, was just another duty to discharge.
“Stella, I don’t want anyone coming round.”
“Madeleine said she might.”
“I don’t want Valentine hanging around Philip if I’m not here.”
I wasn’t even expecting Val: he was at one of his sessions with Fred Harper. But out of nowhere—everything had been all right, the previous moment—I was dazzled by my rage. “What’s the matter with you?” I shouted. “Why have you got such a nasty mind?”
I knew in that moment that she regretted what she’d said, but only because she’d miscalculated and hadn’t meant to start an argument. She was afraid it would make them late: she glanced at the wristwatch on a silver bracelet that had been Gerry’s wedding present to her. “Who you choose as your friends is your own business, Stella,” she said stiffly. “But I’m not obliged to have them in my house.”
“Your house? Why d’you always call it your house? Don’t I live here or something?”
My stepfather hurried downstairs in his socks, doing up his cufflinks. He’d heard raised voices. I loathed him for the doggy eagerness with which he came sniffing out our fight.
“What’s going on, Edna?”
He irritated my mother, too. “For goodness’ sake, get your shoes on, Gerry. We’re late already.”
“I won’t let her get away with talking to you like that.”
“I’ll talk to her how I like,” I said. “She’s my mother.”
Philip went off into a corner, dancing on tiptoe with his head down, shadowboxing, landing tremendous punches on the air: this was what he did when we quarrelled, trying to make us laugh. “Dad’s Army” wound up; the ordinary evening melted around us; then they were too late for their dinner dance, their treat spoiled. Mostly, I shouted and they pretended to stay calm. Soon I couldn’t remember how it had all started: I felt myself washed out farther and farther from the safe place we usually cohabited. I couldn’t believe how small and far away they seemed. It was suddenly easy to say everything. “You think you’re so sensible and fair,” I protested to Gerry. “But, really, I know you just want to destroy me.”
“Don’t be ridiculous,” he said.
“Oh, Stella. D’you have to make such a performance out of everything?”
Gerry said that I wasn’t a very easy girl to like, that I was arrogant and selfish. He crossed the room to close a window, because he didn’t want the neighbors to hear us. At some point, Philip went quietly upstairs. I said that I would die if my life turned out to be as boring and narrow as theirs.
“Just you wait,” my mother warned. “Boring or not, you’ll have to get on with it like everybody else.”
Gerry called my friends dropouts and deadbeats, a waste of space.
“That’s what we think you are,” I said. “We think you’re dead.”
“I’d watch out for Valentine if I were you,” my mother said. “You might be barking up the wrong tree.”
Gerry did lose his temper eventually.
“Get out, Stella, if you can’t respect this house. Just get out.”
Mum remonstrated with him, halfheartedly.
“Don’t worry,” I said. “I’m going. I wouldn’t stay in this house if you begged me.”
They didn’t beg me. I let myself out the front door, into the street.
Freezing without my coat, and weeping, I went to Val’s. His mother let me in and I waited for him in his attic, getting under the blankets to keep warm. When he came home from Fred Harper’s, I heard her expostulating downstairs, saying that I couldn’t stay, she wouldn’t put up with it. So she didn’t like me, either. And I heard Val’s voice raised, too, yelling awful things. (“You silly bitch. Don’t touch me!”) An infectious rage was flashing around between us all that night, like electricity.
“I can’t go back,” I said, when he erupted into the room.
And he understood that it was true. Anyway, he’d had a row, too—with Fred Harper. He was leaving school. We’d both leave school. We’d leave home, too. This, I felt, was the beginning of my real life, of everything I had been waiting for. My real life, in my imagination afterward, always had that attic shape, high and empty and airy, cigarette smoke drifting in the light from a forty-watt bulb. Val said he knew someone who had a flat where we could stay. Tomorrow he’d sort it out. For tonight, I could stay here. He didn’t care what his mother thought.
“Poor little Stella,” he said. “Poor little you. I’m so sorry.”
He was stroking my arms and nuzzling between my shoulder blades, trying to warm me up where I was rigid with cold. And there you are: that night he made love to me, properly—or more or less properly. Anyway, we managed penetration. And we did it another time, too, in the early morning a few days later, in a zipped-up sleeping bag in the front room of a fantastically disgusting ground-floor flat belonging to Ian, the freckled red-haired man who sold Valentine his drugs. We lay in the dawn light, crushed together on our narrow divan in the blessed peace of the aftermath, Val’s head on my breast: proudly, I felt the trickling on my thighs. I suppose we must have heard the milkman’s float passing—or perhaps by that time we had dozed off.
Then someone threw a full milk bottle through the closed window. I didn’t understand at first what had happened: it was just an explosion in the room, appalling and incomprehensible, the crashing glass as loud as a bomb, milk splashed violently everywhere. (It seems unlikely that the drug dealer had a daily delivery—the bottle must have been picked up from someone else’s doorstep.)
“What the fuck?” Val struggled up out of the sleeping bag, naked.
Ian came running in, pulling jeans on. “What the fuck?”
He cut his feet on the glass.
I saw in Val’s face that he knew what the explosion was, and who.
Some other girl, I thought. Some old love. Someone he loves, or who loves him and is desperate for him the way I am.
But of course it wasn’t any girl. It was his English teacher.
I thought—when the whole truth came out, when at last I’d understood about the sex, and Ian was so fucked off with Val about the window and was looking for him everywhere, and Val got some money from his older sister and went to the [REDACTED], and it was all such a collapse of my hopes—I thought I could still go back, defeated, to my old life. Back home and back to school, and pick up where I’d left off, and be a clever girl again, and get to university. Even if I could never ever again, in my whole life, be happy.
But I wasn’t that clever, was I?
Had I forgotten everything they’d taught us at school? That you only had to do it once, just once, to get into trouble. We had even done it twice. 

