
Marjorie Lemke
By Sarah Braunstein
She was only twenty but had an old person’s name. How she despised her name: its merry singsong, its too many vowels, its very M.L., benign initials that in fourth grade inspired Tommy Sugarman to crow, “Major Loser, Major Loser, Major Loser.” Was she a loser? Yes. Now. But then? An eight-year-old in nubby knit tights, a girl with glistening pigtails who carried a Muppets lunchbox? No. Back then she had been merely a girl. A girl with a certain open-eyed, owlish look, good posture, a knack for the Rubik’s Cube. She had not yet got her period in Algebra or made out with Len Dugan in the janitor’s closet or been fired from Rite Aid for stealing a can of Pepsi. She had not yet tripped over herself at the cheerleading tryouts and gone home to scrape the skin of her forearm with a safety pin. Bobby Miller. Keith Paulsen. José who had no last name, who gave her a pill to swallow, who said, “Think of me as Superman,” and took off his shirt and on whose hairless chest she saw a giant red “S,” and she kissed it, kissed it, full of incredulous relief, believing she had found at last the one who would perform the rescue.
Those things and people had not yet happened. Her nose was still unpierced. No butterfly tattoo above her anklebone. No snake eating its tail on her shoulder blade. No Clive. She had not yet become a pregnant nineteen-year-old. She was not yet that girl in the back of Parenting 101 being lectured by a social worker about not shaking your kids and how you’ve got to give them whole milk and lots of vegetables—peas, carrots, zucchini—as if she needed reminding what a vegetable was.
The baby was Della. She slept all through the social worker’s talk and the diaper-changing demonstration, slept on the bus ride home, slept the whole time Marjorie was watching TV and eating Cheerios, and then, just as Marjorie dropped off, she woke up and screamed through the night.
Tommy Sugarman had been wrong back then, but now—she wouldn’t deny it—he was exactly right. Marjorie slept on a pullout sofa in her aunt’s basement, Della in a playpen next to her. “The world performs miracles,” her aunt often said. “Don’t forget that. Work hard, wait, and something extraordinary might happen.” Her aunt’s income was alimony and lotto tickets; Bell’s palsy had slackened half of her pretty face. She didn’t seem to be in a position to talk about miracles. Still, Marjorie maintained a vague hope that her aunt was right, and then something extraordinary did happen.
Marjorie got a job cleaning rooms at a motel. She pushed a cart from room to room. It was a two-tiered cart, which meant that Della could ride on the lower level, on top of the towels, tiny pink socks on her hands to keep her from scratching her face. Sometimes she cried, and then Marjorie propped a bottle in her trembling mouth and the girl submitted to the milk right away, or the better word was “surrendered,” eyes glazed and distant, like Clive’s eyes when the needle went in. Della didn’t cry too much during the day, and Marjorie was grateful that the baby didn’t give her boss a reason to fire her. They were in it together, Marjorie and Della, a team—that’s how it felt.
At work, Marjorie wore her hair in a high, cheerful ponytail like “I Dream of Jeannie.” Sometimes she inhaled the cleansers, not on purpose, but what could you do? Ammonia, bleach, some creamy product for the laminate dresser. Cleaning motel rooms was work that needed to be done. It was work that made a person invisible. She was invisible; Della was, too; and, later, people would arrive—guests—and would make love in the beds she’d prepared and look at their faces in the mirrors in which she’d adjusted her ponytail.
She had been sober seven months. Not even cigarettes. She drank decaf. She sang, “Della Della Della is a happy little girl, Della Della Della is as precious as a pearl,” until the baby fell asleep on the pile of towels.
One day, in Room 207, she found a man.
“Oh, I’m sorry. I’ll come back.”
She had knocked, had called out “Housekeeping,” and no one had replied; yet here was a man, shirtless, sitting up in bed, a newspaper spread out over his lap, a few books next to him. She turned to leave.
“Wait,” he said, and she turned back.
He had a tan, moonish belly, like a Third World baby’s. She assumed he was masturbating but then saw that he was holding a cup of coffee. 

He said, “Do your job, please. Ignore me. We need new towels. I’d like some more shampoo.” He touched his thinning hair, the color of wheat. “Work around me? Can you do that?”
She paused. Perhaps he was a masturbator.
He said, “Trabajas? Sí?”
“I understand you.”
“Oh, I thought you might be—”
She shook her head. Her hair was dark but she was not Mexican. People often made this mistake.
He said, “Listen. Do your job. I’d appreciate it. No funny business.” His smile was a shy flicker. “Or I can wait in the lobby? It’s pouring out”—he jabbed a thumb at the window, streaked with rain—“and I don’t have a car. I’m stuck inside. Should I wait in the lobby? I’m happy to.”
Oh, no, she said, he didn’t have to sit in the lobby, and then Della woke up and made a high, warbling noise like a cat poked by a stick. The man looked startled, but when he saw the baby, when Marjorie reached her hand down to pat the baby’s belly, he smiled. It was a different smile now. “A baby!” he said, happily.
The baby was Mexican, but partly, but legal, but she didn’t tell him this.
“Della,” she said, and immediately wished she hadn’t. It wasn’t his business. Clive always said mind your own business. Or “M.Y.O.B.!” Delivered with such force that it felt like religious law. But she knew, even back then, that Clive was paranoid, convinced that people are evil and want to take your business and smash it, his finger always ready on some trigger or other.
“Della,” she said again, patting the girl’s belly.
“Pretty,” the man said. Then, matter of factly, “Like her mother.” He returned to the newspaper and read while she straightened, wiped surfaces, replaced old towels with new ones. The room was cozy, dim, the beating rain a comfort. He didn’t watch her. Every time she stole a glance she saw him immersed in his reading, brow furrowed, chewing his lower lip. Once she heard the newspaper rustle, heard him murmur, “Flipping Congress,” and she was pretty sure he’d forgotten she was there.
The next day, the sun came out. The rooms were so much uglier in sunlight. You could see all the flaws, the carpet snags and fingerprints and streaks and spots. Her work would take longer today. She stood before 207 for a moment, wondering if he’d be there.
Marjorie knocked, called out her warning, and slipped in the key. There he was, shirtless again, sitting in sweat-pants and slippers on the bed, on top of the covers, holding something up to the overhead light. Sunshine rushed through the window. In the harsher light she saw that his cheeks were faintly pitted. His face reminded her of that craggy movie actor who always played the genius cop. Was there only one of them? No, there were dozens. But no craggy genius women cops.
“Hi!” she said, pulling the cart in behind her. Then, shyly, needlessly, “Housekeeping.”
“Oh, hey,” he said. “You need to do your thing?”
“Whenever it’s convenient.”
Her heart picked up. She knew what was in his hand. She had seen one of those in her aunt’s bedside table: a diaphragm.
Then the bathroom door opened and a woman emerged in a red satin robe. She crossed her arms over her chest, as if modestly, but her legs were planted far apart, showing one of her thighs. The woman said, “We’re about to take a nap.”
“Excuse me,” Marjorie said. “I’m sorry to barge.”
“You weren’t barging,” the man said.
The woman inhaled through her nostrils as though breathing caused her pain. She had a pinched mouth and long blond curls. The hair belonged to a princess, the mouth to a witch.
“I’m really sorry,” Marjorie said. “I knocked. I’ll come back.”
The woman said, “We’ll be staying here a number of weeks. We’ll need you every other day.”
“Four weeks,” the man said. “Five at the most.” 
Marjorie had never heard of anyone staying at the Beacon for that long. She nodded.
“This is [REDACTED],” the man said. “My wife. I’m Gabe.”
“My husband,” [REDACTED] said.
“Marjorie,” Marjorie said.
“She’s got a baby in there, Vi,” Gabe said, gesturing to Della.
“Ah, yes, I see.” [REDACTED] took a quick glance, nodded, as if a baby in a motel cart were perfectly ordinary.
“Della,” Marjorie said, and again regretted it. It wasn’t anyone’s business what her baby’s name was. Why did she always say it? She supposed it was to make people like the baby. She feared someone might complain to management—maybe they wouldn’t if they knew the baby’s name. A name mattered. It had been Marjorie’s instinct to say her own name when Bobby Miller’s uncle had taken her into the basement. If you knew someone’s name you’d be gentler—or that was the idea. “I’m Marjorie,” she had said several times. “Marjorie Lemke.” He had done what he was going to do, but who knows how much worse it could have been.
“Della,” the woman in the robe repeated.
“Della Marie Lemke.”
And Marjorie’s instinct turned out to be a good one, because [REDACTED]’s face softened, and she gave a quick tight smile and said, “We appreciate the work you’ll do for us. You’ll get a sizable tip when we leave.”
“Thank you,” Marjorie said.
“But please knock next time.”
Marjorie agreed to knock. Gabe apologized for being shirtless. Marjorie said not to worry, not to worry at all, and left, wondering how sizable was sizable.
He was butter rum all the way. She was a Sweet Tarts and Laffy Taffy girl. In the motel bed, fully clothed, leaning against the headboard, they started by talking candy. As a kid she’d loved black licorice in the shape of an old-fashioned pipe. Sherlock Holmes candy. Did he remember it? He did, but black licorice tasted like paint to him. Next they examined the easy things: hairlines, knuckles, ears. Then it was time to show, just a little. He pointed to his appendix scar and the glazed place on his back where an iron once passed, the tattoo of an ox on his upper arm. She unbuttoned her uniform and there, on the warm saddle of her belly, were the stretch marks. When looking felt like too much, they talked again. He wanted to know if she had any nicknames. No, she said. She didn’t say that Clive used to call her Buttercup. It seemed too ridiculous; its sweetness—now, given all that had happened—felt like an assault. Gabe told her that he had been nicknamed Sesame as a baby. He’d been premature, a speck of a thing. His mother still used it. A middle-aged man with an ox tattoo, called Sesame—this made Marjorie laugh.
Gabe told her he was recovering from surgery, feeling better every day. What kind of surgery? she wanted to know. He blushed, admitted he used to weigh three hundred pounds. He’d had his stomach stapled. He drummed his fingers atop his ribs when he said the word “stapled.” Marjorie imagined her fifth-grade teacher, wicked Mrs. McKay, how she’d slam the metal stapler with her closed fist, terrifying the class.
“I’m feeling great,” he said. “New lease on life. But I have to take small bites. And chew real slowly. I count to thirty before I swallow.”
“Poor baby,” she murmured.
“[REDACTED] likes me better this way,” he said. “Who can blame her?”
“I bet you carried it real well.” That’s what her aunt said when people complained about their weight.
“[REDACTED] didn’t think so. Who can blame her? She married a man with a thirty-four-inch waist. The body you get married with, that’s like a contract.”
Marjorie asked where [REDACTED] went every day, and Gabe said she was a union buster who went from factory to factory sniffing out trouble. A real Norma Rae killer, he said. He laughed, but Marjorie didn’t. When Marjorie said she had married a man named Clive who had jumped onto a freight train in front of her very eyes, leaving her pregnant and broke, Marjorie laughed, but Gabe didn’t.
Della slept the whole time. On their first day together, Marjorie didn’t want to touch. She didn’t think it was fair to touch when Della was in the room with them, asleep in the cart. But Marjorie kissed the back of his neck and thought, What is the word for this part? “Nate”? “Tape”? It didn’t matter what the word was. That part was so warm. It smelled like the shampoo. In this way it was her smell.
Marjorie went to 207 every other day. She would knock and open the door. Gabe would be in bed, in sweatpants, a newspaper spread around him, an open book on the nightstand. One day, he asked to hold the baby. Could he hold the baby? Just for a minute? Babies were good for the blood pressure, he said. She liked seeing the baby in his big arms. Soon she didn’t feel guilty that Della was in the room.
One day, lying together on top of the covers, she said, “Why don’t you go out? Don’t you get bored in here?”
“Where should I go?”
She thought of the miles of strip malls surrounding the motel, the beauty parlors and bars and dollar stores. She thought of the OTB and the V.F.W. and the food pantry where you could get a mini-carton of chocolate milk and a P.B. & J. and feel like a schoolchild, and the alley behind it, where you could buy crack. The constant rumble of the interstate. The greasy sky. The whole city was like an arcade that takes your quarters and spits tickets back at you.
“It’s sad out there,” she admitted.
“And you’re in here,” he said. “And my books are here.” He gestured to the nightstand, to a pile of books about Presidents and wars. “I think you and Lincoln are my two favorite people in the world right now.”
“And [REDACTED],” Marjorie said, without really knowing why.
“You, Abe, and [REDACTED]. That’s right. You know we’ve been on the road for six months, me and Vi? Akron, [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED] . . . where else?” He heaved a theatrical, exhausted sigh. “Everywhere else. This is our last stop. We’re going home after this, and I get to do what I want. That’s what she says. Role reversal. I did what she asked—lost weight, kept her company. I’m all for working women, equal pay, trust me. But I won’t lie: I’m looking forward to the change. I get to rule the roost and she takes care of me. She’s going to cook—she loves to cook. Low-fat lasagna whenever I want it.”
“What’s it like, your roost?”
“A pretty split-level. Two acres. A brook—a brook when it rains. In the meantime, I’m keeping her company and becoming a history buff.”
“But you don’t get bored?” She felt panic on his behalf—to sit in this room for weeks on end with some books and only herself for occasional company. It seemed purely awful. Not that she wanted him to leave. She did not.
He shrugged. “Vi’s got a rental car, and we go out for dinner most nights. Sparky’s or the Ninety-Nine.”
“I love Sparky’s.”
“You do? Poor thing.” He gripped her hand.
She knew he was right and loved him for saying so. But she pretended to be offended. “The fries are amazing! Have you had better French fries in your whole life? Tell me.”
“I do the salad,” he said, nuzzling her neck. “Dressing on the side.”
“You need to try the fries.” Suddenly she felt offended for real—protective of her city.
“I’ll steal one from her plate,” he agreed. Then he started talking about Lincoln, about his crazy prophetic dreams, until she got spooked, and shivered, and kissed him to make him stop.
[REDACTED] always returned at four, so at three-thirty-five Marjorie would dress. Then she would clean. She would clean twice, so she could stay a little longer. Gabe watched.
“You are the most lovely maid I’ve ever known,” he said once. “And I’ve seen a lot.”
She wanted to hear it again. “What did you say?”
He blushed, said, “You are so dedicated.”
At three-fifty-five she would give a kiss to the air and he would pretend to catch it. Then she would take the cart, wait at the end of the hall, and watch [REDACTED], tall and proud, return to her husband.


Della didn’t care that her mother had a new lover. She didn’t care that her father was gone and that her mother could not sleep and that the mattress of the sofa bed squeaked provocatively, perversely, when Marjorie merely rolled over. The only thing Della cared about was that there was a sore on her gum that would not heal, though Marjorie was pretty certain that the baby didn’t have the language to think this. Della’s cries seemed to come from underneath her body. Marjorie rubbed an ice cube on Della’s gums and sang, “Della Della Della is a happy little girl, Della Della Della is as precious as a pearl, Della Della Della is a lover of the moon, Della Della Della will make all the fellows swoon!”
Della drank her bottle with resigned vigor, sucked and sucked, her face damp and unlit. Then, for an hour afterward, she cried. Marjorie called the clinic and talked to a nurse, who said, “Let it run its course.”
Marjorie kept her hand on Della’s forehead. She said, “That doesn’t seem fair.”
“Look,” the nurse said. “Babies have a higher tolerance for pain than anyone thinks.”
Marjorie thought about that. How much tolerance was a person supposed to have? Was it good to have tolerance for pain? Why? How much did she have? What about Clive? Clive had cried like a baby the time he dropped a jar of mayo on his foot. She remembered how she sedated him, how quickly the impulse to sedate arrived in her, how she had gone to her knees, kissed the injured foot, kissed his shin, his thigh, all the way up to his button fly. She kissed each button.
“That’s right, Mama,” he’d said. He always called her “Mama” during the high points. Once he referred to the needle as “Mama”—as in, give that Mama over here, pronto. And Marjorie, who abstained from needles, who was too squeamish, who viewed her inability to shoot up as a personal failing, who preferred the juvenile pleasures of beer and spray paint and glue, felt enormous jealousy.
“I’m Mama,” she said.
“Damn right,” Clive whispered, in his ghost-in-the-attic voice, so far away that as soon as the words were spoken you couldn’t be sure he’d said them at all.
With new ferocity Marjorie cleaned. In Gabe’s heavy arms she cried. Then, with unfamiliar abandon, with sweet little moans (moans that wouldn’t wake the baby but felt sincere all the same; moans she trusted more than any moans she’d heard before), they had sex. Afterward, she said, “My baby is too little. They don’t know why. It’s my fault.”
“She’ll grow up. All of it will be in the past.” 
That was true, Marjorie knew, and also not the point. She put on her uniform.
“I was a sesame seed,” he said. “And look at me now.”
No one had ever reassured her before; no one who wasn’t paid or related had made such an effort. She fought the impulse to say she loved him, went back to work.
Gabe said, “So lovely and dedicated.”
He had a chocolate bar for her. “Where’d you get this?” It was the extra-big kind, bigger than her hand. She stared at the purple wrapper, gold foil peeking out.
“What do you mean, where?” He grinned. “At the gas station.”
“At the Exxon across the street?” She held it to her nose, sniffed.
“Is something wrong with it? Or with the Exxon?”
She didn’t know how to say what it felt like to be given a gift. To say how happy it made her that he’d got out of bed, that he’d put on a shirt and shoes and gone downstairs and across the street and searched the candy racks at the Exxon.
“You said it’s your favorite kind. Or did I misremember?”
“You remembered.” Her throat clenched. “Let’s share it.”
“I can’t eat chocolate,” he said, tapping his stomach. “It’s gone the way of the dodo. New regime. New times . . . Oh, look at you! You look so sad. You feel sorry for me?”
She did, it was true, though she shook her head. “It’s not fair.” She suddenly felt like crying. “The best things . . .” She shook her head. “It’s just not fair. The best things.” She didn’t know how to say what she meant.
“I’m not saying I don’t get cravings, but I’ve learned to live with them. It’s like a dog barking next door. The neighbor’s wild puppy. I’ve learned to tune it out. When I’m eighty, I’ll let myself get fat again. Maybe seventy-five. That’s what I’ve decided.”
She would not last that many years. She wasn’t sure she could get through this one.
“I’ll eat it later.” She moved to put the chocolate away, out of sight, to tuck it into the towels on the cart, under Della. She knew she was overreacting in all directions, in gratitude and sympathy, but she couldn’t help it.
He said, “Please eat it. Let me watch you enjoy it. Let me watch.”
“Now?”
“It would make my day.”
So she ate while he studied her. He wore a fond, baffled expression, glassy-eyed, like a man startled by his luck, a bridegroom as his better half floats toward him down the aisle.
She sang, “Della Della Della will make all the fellows swoon! Della Della Della in her happy basement room!”
She put numbing ointment on Della’s sore. Then she tried a chamomile tea bag.
She called the doctor’s office again. The nurse said, “If it’s not gone in three days, bring her in.”
“It’s been a week already.”
The nurse said, “These things are a ten-day affair.”
Marjorie hung up, sat down on the sofa bed, the baby in her arms. Della’s eyelids fluttered sweetly, like a baby’s in a movie. Marjorie had the urge to run upstairs, to look under the kitchen sink. Just to breathe the under-sink air, to breathe the air around the pipes and the bottles and the dried-out sponges, even that, that little, just the air. Her head would narrow and the world would expand. For a few minutes she wouldn’t worry about her bank account. Her molar that twinged when she drank ice water. Wouldn’t wonder about next week or the week after, wouldn’t think about “weeks,” and wouldn’t have to fight to suppress the suspicion that the best thing for Della was a box on the church steps—a box! steps!—which was as absurd and as comforting as imagining the baby in a sling suspended from a stork’s beak.
Just to open the tile-gunk remover. To stick her nose in for two seconds. An assault of nothing. But her aunt was upstairs. Her aunt was in the kitchen, clearing dishes, singing a song from “Phantom of the Opera.” Her aunt had such a beautiful voice. Marjorie closed her eyes and listened, pictured that phantom wearing half a hockey mask (her aunt had a T-shirt), until the desire passed.
Marjorie kissed Gabe’s palm and wished she knew what its lines said. His future was somewhere else, she knew—she wasn’t deluding herself. But where was it and how long and with whom? The lines in his hand were deep and soft but told her nothing. And what was Marjorie’s future? She was a motel maid. This would go on and on. She did not need to look at her palm. But what about Della? She wanted Della to be healthy and sober and big, to smoke nothing except pipe licorice.
Gabe said, “I can give you some money. You take her to someone who knows about growing. Take Della to a specialist.”
“You and [REDACTED], are you happy? Do you love her?”
“Don’t worry about [REDACTED].”
“But you do love her, don’t you? Even though . . .” She gestured to her naked body.
“Take the baby to a specialist. I’ll give you money.”
“You will? You would?”
But suddenly she was afraid. The word “specialist” was sinister.
“I would,” he said.
Marjorie closed her eyes. She said, “She’ll be fine. She’ll have a growth spurt and it’ll all be in the past. Like you said. I’m only five-two-and-a-half. How big can she be?”
Gabe said, “It’s not your fault.”
“You love [REDACTED]. I know you do.”
She breathed his skin. The motel soap was the best smell she knew, a chemical peppery floral, totally unnatural and totally comforting. It reminded her of the scratch ’n’ sniff stickers she’d collected as a little girl. Gabe made a low sound. It might have been a cry. Marjorie squeezed her eyes shut. She didn’t want to know if he was crying.
“I do love her,” Gabe whispered, “more than anything. I met her when I was twenty-two. I’d never had a real girlfriend.”
“Never?”
“I wasn’t a virgin, but real close. There’s this bar called the Jack Frost, and [REDACTED] comes in wearing a red dress. Low cut. Real bright red and tight, but she was shy, kind of nervous—I could tell she was shyer than a dress like that.”
“That’s a nice way to say it.”
 “Her boyfriend was Zeke Gray. Like he’d just hopped off the tractor. Mean eyes, dirty hands, did a shot before he ordered her a drink. It wasn’t like me, but I followed her to the bathroom. I stood outside the door, and when she came out I said—oh, I’m embarrassed to say. It wasn’t like me. I minded my own business. I wasn’t even drunk. My father always said, ‘Leave well enough alone,’ and I did, I really did, until that night. I had a thirty-four-inch waist, Marjorie. I was a kid.”
“What did you say to her?”
“Her shoes were red, too, like Dorothy’s, like in the movie. She was softer than she is now. Plumper. I loved how plump she was. I was thin and she was plump, and now it’s the other way around.”
“What did you say?”
“It was nothing. I just said, ‘You’re better than all of this.’ Later I learned those shoes were too small for her. She had horrible blisters.”
“That’s a sweet story,” Marjorie said. “Maybe the sweetest.”
She imagined being that girl. She imagined Gabe’s awkwardness, imagined him waiting outside the bathroom, doing this thing that was not in his nature, and she held him tighter.
“I gave her Band-Aids,” he said.
The cleaners tricked Marjorie’s nostrils into believing she was at the beach. They made her close her eyes and feel the sea air and made her believe she was sitting on a dock in a plaid sundress, or a polka-dotted sundress, she had a whole closet of sundresses, and the sun was fierce, it was always noon, her toes tickled the surface of the water. The cleaners made her throat constrict, and sometimes—when she held a rag or a paper bag to her nose, just one more time, she wasn’t making a habit of it—the salty sea filled her nasal passages, the sun beat down, and then if she vomited it wasn’t awful. It wasn’t gross. She tasted salt, as if she’d been swimming, as if she’d been swimming and had been playfully battered by a giant wave and now lay sprawled on the beach, spread out in shimmering sand, pretty, immovable, like a mermaid. Or like a piece of glass that went in jagged and came out polished and whole. Her body was smooth. She was whole. A closet of dresses. Not a cloud in sight. It was always noon. Gabe napped one day while Marjorie was cleaning. Quietly, Marjorie opened the dresser drawer. Inside were many pairs of ladies’ underwear: paisleys, polka dots, lace. In a square box, pink and plastic and hinged like a clamshell, she found the diaphragm. Marjorie held it to the light and saw a pinprick hole.
Marjorie imagined [REDACTED] in labor, [REDACTED] with a mustache of sweat, yelping and crying and clutching Gabe’s big hand. There would be no social worker. There would be no drug tests or reminders about vegetables. She began to cry.
She woke him up.
“She wants a baby,” Marjorie cried. “Be careful.”
“Sh-h-h,” he said. He touched her cheek.
“I saw her diaphragm,” Marjorie said. “It’s full of holes.”
Gabe shook his head.
“But it’s full of holes!”
“There’s just one hole,” he said.
That afternoon, from the end of the hall, Marjorie watched [REDACTED] return from work. She imagined [REDACTED]’s healthy baby, her pink and loud baby, and all the blankets and spoons that it would get for being born. [REDACTED] wore a business suit and pointed shoes and dark stockings, and her long hair was trapped in a shellacked bun.
“Excuse me,” Marjorie called. [REDACTED] turned. Gabe was right—she was a person who would look better plumper. The thinness of her face was what made it look mean. Marjorie pushed her cart toward [REDACTED], her heart speeding up, and heard herself say, “I just want to make sure you have everything you need. That you’re comfortable here.”
“We have everything.” [REDACTED]’s voice was sharp but not cruel; it was a work voice, a woman-visiting-a-factory voice. Her posture was excellent. “The room is fine,” [REDACTED] said. “Very clean. No complaints.”
“Great,” said Marjorie. “Excellent.” She wanted terribly to offer an amenity, an insider tip.
“Sometimes the air-conditioning acts funny,” Marjorie told her. “It makes a noise—”
“It clicks. Yes, we noticed.”
“I can send Jerome up to take a look.”
“We’re good sleepers.” [REDACTED] shrugged. “It’s not bothersome. But send him up if you’d like.”
Marjorie realized she didn’t feel guilty. Not at all. She felt—what was it, exactly? She felt that she had just happened to slip for one moment into this woman’s lucky life. She didn’t feel guilty, because she knew she’d slip right out again and nothing would be different for any of them. Gabe was a lonely man who wanted to touch someone smaller and less powerful than him. Marjorie understood it—she hoped one day she’d get to do it, too. And not with a baby, that wasn’t the same thing. She was making Gabe happier, she knew this in her heart, and [REDACTED] would receive that happiness like a blessing of her own making.
Marjorie heard Della shifting in the cart, heard the start of her soft, wet mewing. “I guess I better get back to work.”
“Ticktock,” [REDACTED] said. She gave Marjorie the smallest smile; she lowered her eyes to the baby.
“Ticktock,” Marjorie said, and she, too, looked at the baby. Della’s mouth was moving but her eyes remained closed. Marjorie turned back to [REDACTED], ready to share a commiserating look, but [REDACTED] had turned away.
On the tenth day, Marjorie looked, but the cold sore was gone. Marjorie held Della to her chest and hummed and laughed. She said, “Poor brave baby. Poor baby who is braver than her own mother!” Then Marjorie lifted Della over her head and the baby opened her mouth and for a moment, maybe, seemed to smile.
“My own,” Gabe said.
He was in the shower. She stood with her back to the sink, looking at the plastic salmon-colored shower curtain that she sprayed every other day with citrus-scented mildew repellent. He turned off the water.
“My own,” he said again, through the curtain.
Water swirled down the drain. She could smell the pine liquid she used to scrub the floor, and the tiny perfumed soaps in their waxy wrappers. Her limbs felt hollow. No woman in her position should meet resistance. No woman should be forced to tolerate this for any longer than absolutely necessary.
“But you want one,” she said. “A little one who needs you. There are plenty out there who need—” She did not intend to yell.
She listened to the water drip from his body and down the drain.
“My own,” he said, still hidden by the curtain.
“Is that all you can say?”
“Isn’t that fair?”
She thought about it. “Yes,” she admitted. It was the kind of thing a person thought was fair until one had one’s own child and pushed it around in a motel cart all day. It was fair until you realized it was the furthest thing from fair.
“But there are so many out there . . . so many . . .” She was losing her will. It was a vapor, her will, like the steam in the room, evaporating fast.
He pulled back the curtain. They looked at each other. His body was large and soft and didn’t look capable of making anything.
“You should think about it,” she finally said. Her voice was flat. It surprised her, how her voice could be so level while her heart jumped all over the place. “Would you do that? Think about it, at least?”
He stepped out of the shower.
“Are you serious, Marjorie?”
Was she? Was she? Was she? Her heart pumped these words. She handed him a towel. He didn’t dry himself but clutched the towel to his big belly.
“I want my own.” But he said it now with less conviction.
“They become your own.”
“You think?”
She paused. “I do,” she said.
She might have begged him. She prepared herself to beg. But then he put his hands on her shoulders, and water dripped onto her chest, and she tilted her head up and he looked down at her, his eyes wide open, and she knew that she wouldn’t have to beg. Her uniform was getting soaked. He said her name. The baby in the bedroom made a high, fluttering, flutelike sound. 

