The Furies
By Paul Theroux
“Inow belong to an incredibly exclusive club,” Ray Testa said in his speech at his wedding reception. He savored the moment, then winked and added, “There are not many men who can say that they’re older than their father-in-law.”
He was fifty-eight, his new wife, Shelby, thirty-one, his father-in-law fifty-six and seemingly at ease with the idea of this balding man marrying his daughter. “She’s an old soul,” he said.
Ray Testa was a dentist, and for seven years Shelby had been his hygienist. “I’m thinking of leaving,” Shelby said one day. Ray urged her to stay and finally pleaded, “You can’t leave. I love you.” She didn’t smile. She swallowed air and said that she had feelings for him, too. Then, “What about Angie?”
He confessed everything to his wife.
Angie took it badly, as he’d guessed she might, but unexpectedly she said, “Why didn’t you leave me years ago, when I might have met someone who really cared for me?”
He hadn’t imagined that she’d object in this peevish way, for such a coldly practical reason—because his timing was inconvenient for her. He’d thought she was going to tell him how much she’d miss him, how miserable she’d be without him, not that she might have been better off with someone else.
As she stared at him, her eyes went black and depthless, and she seemed to swell physically, as though with malevolence. Ray expected a shout, but her voice was the confident whisper of a killer to his helpless victim. “I know I should say I wish you well, but I wish you ill, with all my heart. I’ve made it easy for you. I hope you suffer now with that woman who’s taken you from me. These women who carry on with married men are demons.”
She sounded like her mother, Gilda—Ermenegilda—sour, mustached, habitually in black, pedantically superstitious, Sicilian, always threatening the evil eye. He told himself that Angie was bitter, cruel with grief, demented by the breakup. She didn’t mean what she was saying.
They had no children; they divided their assets in half, the proceeds of his more than thirty years of dentistry. Angie got the house, the dog, a lump sum; Ray the vacation home on the South Shore—he’d commute to his office from there, Shelby by his side. Shelby wasn’t greedy. She said she’d never been happier. Ray did not repeat to her the vindictive curse that Angie had uttered. He had what he wanted now, a new life with a woman he loved. 

People said that a second wife was often a younger version of the first one, but Shelby was in every way the opposite of Angie. She was a treasure, unconventionally beautiful, not the fleshy new graduate she’d been when he first hired her but tall and sharp-featured, with the lean, feline good health of the jogger she now was. Her mouth was almost severe—she hardly parted her lips when she spoke, and spoke always in a low, certain voice that got his attention, as in, “What about Angie?”
With the unwavering judgment of someone untested, someone innocent and upright, Shelby was alert to the obvious. Her eyes were gray, blinkless, catlike. Ray had desired her from the first, but thought that the feeling would diminish as he got to know her better. Time had passed, and his desire to possess her had become a set of physical symptoms: hunger, a swollen tongue, a drone in his head, a tingling in his hands.
Now she was his. He could not believe his luck, how she had come into his life, to lead him confidently into a future he’d once hated to contemplate. He sometimes eavesdropped on her when she was working on a patient in her focussed way and he was almost tearful with gratitude that she was his wife.
They had never argued, and so their first argument, a few months after their marriage, came as a shock to Ray. It concerned his high-school reunion—the fortieth. Ray wanted to take Shelby. She protested that she’d feel out of place. Everyone knew that a high-school reunion was hell for a spouse. She said, “I think you’ll regret it.”
But Ray was a big smiling boy with a boast, and Shelby eventually agreed, even to their staying the night at the hotel in his home town, where the reunion was being held.
Medford had changed. It was denser and, divided now by the Interstate, much busier, but still full of memories, as he told Shelby on their tour through the place—the brick façades that had once been the entrances to single-screen movie theatres, the armory that bulked like a granite citadel, the stairs that had led down to Joe’s basement poolroom, the Italian cobbler, the Chinese laundry, the post office with the old murals of ship-building in its lobby. Now Medford had a new hotel, with a ballroom large enough to accommodate the high-school reunion.
“One night, non-smoking, king-size bed,” the hotel clerk said, tapping the check-in card with her pen, but she kept glancing at Shelby, uneasily, almost with pity, as though suspecting that she had been abducted.
They drew stares later, too, as they searched the table for their name tags.
“I don’t really need one. It’s your night,” Shelby said.
But, as she said it, Ray peeled the paper backing from a label marked “Shelby Testa” and stuck it to her beaded jacket.
A woman in a black shawl approached them as Ray was patting the label flat. The woman flourished a large yellow envelope and drew a black-and-white photograph from it, saying, “Miss Balsam’s class. Third grade. Do you recognize yourself?”
“That’s me, third row,” Ray said. “And that’s you in the front with your hands in your lap. Maura Dedrick, you were so cute!”
“Aren’t I still cute?” the woman said.
She was small and thin and deeply lined, with weary eyes. No makeup, a trace of hair on her cheeks, fretful lips, her open mouth like a grommet in canvas.
“Of course you are,” Ray said.
She smiled sadly, as though he had satirized her with his quick answer. Then she turned, because two other women had come to greet her.
“You remember [REDACTED] and Annie,” Maura said.
Ray said, “You married Larry,” to [REDACTED].
“He left me,” [REDACTED] said.
“I’m divorced, too,” Annie said.
Ray was aware that while they were talking to him they were eying Shelby. Annie was bigger than he remembered, not just plump and full-faced but taller—it was probably her shoes—and she was carrying a handbag the size of a valise. [REDACTED] was heavily made up, wearing ropes of green beads, Gypsy-like. Ray had known them as girls. They were almost old women now—older than him, he felt, for their look of abandonment, tinged with anger. When they became aware of his gaze, they recoiled in a way that made him feel intrusive. They were fifty-eight years old—everyone in the room was that age, though when he surveyed the growing crowd he could see that some had aged better than others.
“May I introduce my wife?” Ray said. “This is Shelby.”
The women smiled, they clucked, but Ray saw that Maura had narrowed her eyes, and Annie had leaned closer, and [REDACTED] seemed to snicker. Putting a protective arm around Shelby, he felt the sudden pulsing of an odd circuitry in her shoulders.
Maura said to Shelby, “Angie was so mad when I went to the junior prom with Ray. Angie was my best friend—still is.”
[REDACTED] hovered over Shelby and spoke in a deaf person’s shout, “He took me to Canobie Lake. He got fresh!”
“Remember what you wrote in my yearbook?” Annie said. “ ‘You’re the ultimate in feminine pulchritude.’ ”
“I guess I had a way with words,” Ray said.
“You had a way with your hands,” [REDACTED] said, shouting again.
Maura said to Shelby, “I’ve known Ray Testa since I was seven years old.”
Everything that he’d forgotten was still real and immediate to them—the prom, the lake, the yearbook, Miss Balsam’s third-grade class. He had lived his life without looking back, and he’d been happy. Had their disappointment made them dwell on the past, as a kind of consolation?
He said, “Shel and I need a drink.”
Maura said, “I’ll get it.”
“Don’t bother.”
But she insisted, and after she slipped away they spoke with Annie and [REDACTED]. While they chatted about the changes in Medford, he remembered the rowboat at Canobie Lake, the fumbled kiss, the way he had gripped [REDACTED] as she snatched at his hands. And Annie—the summer night on her porch, her arms folded over her breasts, and “Don’t, please.” And when Maura returned with the drinks he recalled the back seat of his father’s car at the drive-in, the half pint of Four Roses, and her “Cut it out.” Horrible.
Maura handed over two glasses of white wine. Ray sipped his, while Shelby just held hers in both hands as if for balance.
“Drink up,” Maura said.
Shelby put her glass to her lips, and Ray did the same. The warm wine had the dusty taste of chalk, and a tang he couldn’t name, perhaps a metal—zinc, maybe, with the smack of cat piss. He found it hard to swallow, but to please Maura he swigged again, and he knew he was right in thinking it was foul, because Shelby did no more than wet her lips with it. Seeing Shelby struggle, Maura looked on with what he took to be satisfaction.
He remembered these women’s flesh, and he sorrowed for what they had become, parodies of the girls he’d known. They had badly neglected their teeth. He had never been more keenly aware of the age difference between him and Shelby.
In the ballroom, where a small band was playing, some couples had begun to dance. As he steered Shelby onto the floor, he could feel her body go heavy, resisting the music.
“How you doing?” he heard. It was Malcolm DeYoung, gray-haired now. “Hey, who’s this fine lady?”
“Shelby, I want you to meet my old friend Malcolm.”
Malcolm said, “What about some food? There’s a buffet over there.”
They stood in the buffet line, and afterward they sat together at a table. Ray said, “I used to know everyone. But the only people I’ve recognized so far, apart from you, are those three”—Maura, [REDACTED], and Annie were at a nearby table. “The funny thing is, they were all my girlfriends, at different times.”
Malcolm said, “You got a target on your back, man,” and he winked at Shelby.
“I really wanted to introduce Shel to my old friends.” 
Malcolm put his fork down. He stood up and said, “I don’t drink these days. But let me tell you something. In a little while these people are going to get toasted. I don’t want to be here then. I don’t think you want to, neither.”
Then he left them. Ray didn’t speak again, nor did Shelby say anything more. She put her knife and fork on the uneaten food in her plate, and her napkin on top, like a kind of burial. Ray squeezed her hand and said, “Ready?”
She said, “I was ready an hour ago.”
They left quickly, not making eye contact, and in the hotel lobby Ray said, “Shall we go upstairs?”
“What did you do after the prom?”
“We watched the submarine races up at the Mystic Lakes.”
“Show me.”
He drove her through the town to the familiar turnoff, and down to the edge of the lake, where he parked, the house lights on the far shore glistening, giving life to the black water. He held Shelby’s hand and kissed her, as he had in the first weeks of their love affair. He fumbled with her dress, loving its complications, delighting in the thought of her body under those silky layers slipping through his fingers, and she seemed as eager as he was.
“Here?” he asked. “Now?”
“Why not?” She shrugged the straps from her shoulders and held her breasts, and as she presented them to him their whiteness was illuminated by the headlights of a car, swinging up to park beside them.
“Cops,” Ray said.
Shelby gasped and covered herself, clawing at her dress, while Ray rolled down his window. A bright overhead light came on inside the other car, which seemed full of passengers.
“You pig.” It was Maura Dedrick, her face silhouetted at her window, someone beside her—Annie, maybe; someone else in the rear seat.
Ray was in such a hurry to get away that he started the car without raising the window, so he could hear Maura still calling out abuse, as he drove off, her shouts mingling with Shelby’s choked sobs.
Back at the hotel (the reunion was still in progress—fewer people, louder music), Shelby lay in bed, shivering, repeating, “That was awful.” Ray tried to soothe her, and in doing so felt useful, but when he moved to hug her she said, “Not now.”
In a dark hour of the night, the phone rang like an alarm. Ray grabbed for it, and the voice had claws, the accusations of a woman wanting to hurt him. “Wrong number,” he mumbled, and hung up, but was unable to get to sleep again.
In the morning, Shelby slid out of bed before he could touch her. She said, “Show me whatever you’re going to show me, then let’s go home.”
He drove her to his old neighborhood and then slowly down the street where he had lived as a boy. The trees were gone, the wood-frame houses faded and small. Shelby sat, inattentive, distracted. At one point, he urged her to get out of the car, and he walked her to the side of a garage, where he’d carved a heart on a cinder block with a spike, the petroglyph still visible after all these years. It was here, in the garage between two houses, that he’d kissed a girl—what was her name?—one Halloween night, crushing her against the wall, tasting the candy in her mouth and running his hands over her body.
“Hello, stranger.”
A great fat woman with wild hair stood, almost filling the space between the garage and the nearby house. She laughed, and put her hands on her hips. She wore bruised sneakers and no socks, and when she opened her mouth Ray could see gaps in her teeth, most of her molars missing. She raised one hand, clapping a cigarette to her lips, then blew smoke at him.
“I’ve been waiting for you.”
“Is it—” He squinted to remember the name. “Louise?”
“Who else?” she said, then, “Who’s that—your daughter?” and laughed again.
Shelby said, “I’ll meet you in the car.”
“She’s scared,” Louise said, hooting.
Ray was frightened, too, but didn’t want to show it. The woman was hideous, and her sudden appearance and weird confidence made him want to run. But he sidled away slowly, saying, “Wait here. I’ll be back.”
“That’s what you told me that night. I’ve been waiting ever since!”
Had he said that? Probably. As a boy, he’d told any lie for the chance to touch someone. She had scared him then; she scared him now. He had the sense that she wanted to hit him, and when she took another puff of her cigarette and tossed the butt aside he feared that she was coming for him.
“Please,” he said, and put his hands up to protect his face and ran clumsily to his car.
Louise did not follow him. She watched from the passageway, potbellied, her feet apart, and as he started the car she shook another cigarette from her pack.
“I haven’t seen her for years,” Ray said. Shelby did not reply; she was mute, her arms folded, facing forward. “Imagine, she still lives there.”
“Waiting for you.”
“That’s crazy.”
But when they got home there was a further shock. As Ray parked, he noticed a white slip of paper thumbtacked to the front door. The idea that someone had come up the long driveway and through his gate to leave this note disturbed him. And he was more disturbed when he read it: “Ray, you must of gone out. Sorry I missed you—Ellie.”
“Who’s Ellie?” Shelby said.
He was thinking “must of,” and he knew it had to be Ellie, his college girlfriend. She’d become pregnant at just about the time they were breaking up. She’d told her parents, who’d arranged for her to have an abortion in another state—it was illegal in [REDACTED] then. When it was over, her parents had written to his parents denouncing him, saying that he’d ruined their daughter’s life. He had not seen her since. That was who Ellie was—Ellie Bryant.
But he said, “I don’t know anyone by that name.” It was the first lie he’d told Shelby in all the time he’d known her. “Maybe an old patient,” he added.
For days, every evening when he returned home from the office with Shelby he expected Ellie to be waiting for him. Friday came. He knew something was wrong when he saw that the front gate, which was always latched, was ajar—a small thing, but for a frightened house owner, alert to details, it had significance. Then he heard the creak of the porch swing at the side of the house.
Shelby said, “There’s someone here.”
“I’ll check—don’t worry,” he said, and braced himself for Ellie.
She was on the porch swing, facing away; he saw her back, her cold purple hands—it was November—on the chains that held the seat, the kerchief tightened around her head. She turned and the swing squeaked again.
“You!” The snarled word made her face ugly.
He had no idea who the woman was, and, before he could speak, Shelby came up behind him and said, “What are you doing here?”
“Visiting my old friend Ray Testa,” the woman said.
“Are you Ellie?”
The woman frowned at the name. She said, “No. Ask him who I am. Go on, Ray, tell her.”
But he didn’t know. He started to gabble in fear.
“Think,” she said. “You used to visit me and my husband in [REDACTED]. He was a photographer. You pretended you were interested in his pictures. You were very chatty. And then, when he was away, you came back. You couldn’t keep your hands off me. Always sneaking around, sniff-sniff.” To Shelby, she said, “This man drove two hundred miles just to touch me.”
And the effort did seem preposterous now, because the woman was gray, with papery skin, and sad eyes, and reddened gums showing in her downturned mouth.
He said, “Joyce.”
“See? He knows who I am.”
“What do you want?”
“Just to pay a friendly visit.”
“Please go.”
The woman said, “Isn’t it funny? You drove all that way to see me—took half a day to get to my house—and all the probing, to make sure Richard was away. And now you can’t wait to get rid of me.”
With that, she stamped on the porch floorboards and hoisted herself out of the swing. She stood, leaning sideways, and she came at him with that crooked posture and a slight limp, as if she were about to fall down.
“This is how he’ll treat you one day, sweetheart,” she said to Shelby.
Ray let Joyce pass, then followed her to the driveway, and kept watching her—where was her car? how had she got there?—but she seemed to vanish before she reached the road.
Shelby was on the sofa in tears, her face in her hands. She recoiled when he reached for her.
“You know them,” Shelby said. “All of them.”
She refused to allow him to console her. She was disgusted, she said. She didn’t eat that night. She slept in the spare room thereafter. He regretted their sleeping apart, until one night, soon after Joyce’s visit, when he woke in his bed and became aware not of breathing but of a swelling shadow in the room.
He said, “Shelby?”
The soft laugh he heard was not Shelby’s.
“You probably think you had a hard time,” the woman said, becoming more substantial, emerging from the darkness as she spoke. “In those days, an abortion was a criminal offense. A doctor could lose his license for performing one. And it was painful and bloody and humiliating. It had another effect—I was never able to bear another child. My husband left me when he realized we’d never have children. I became a teacher, because I loved kids. I recently retired. I live on a pension. You destroyed my life.”
Just when he thought she was going to hit him, she disappeared.
In the morning, Shelby said she’d heard voices. “Who was it?”
“Talking in my sleep. I must have been dreaming.”
Certain that he was lying, Shelby said that she could not bear to hear another word from him. She added, in her unanswerable, unwavering voice, “You keep saying how old and feeble they all are, and how repugnant. But don’t you realize who they look like?”
He gaped at her, futilely.
“They all look like you. I sometimes think they are you. Each person in our past is an aspect of us. You need to know that.”
Ray called his ex-wife, but got her answering machine. “Angie,” he pleaded into it, “I don’t know how you’re doing it, but please stop. I’ll agree to anything if you stop them showing up.” 
For several weeks, no women from his past intruded, and Ray believed that Angie had got the message. He even called again and left a thank-you on the answering machine.
Shelby demanded that they see a marriage counsellor. Ray agreed, but on the condition that the counsellor be in [REDACTED], far from their home, so that their anonymity was assured.
“I want it to be a woman,” Shelby said, and found a Dr. Patricia Devlin, whose office was near Mass General Hospital.
“Please take a seat,” Dr. Devlin said on their first visit. “Make yourselves comfortable.”
She read their insurance forms, running her finger down the answers to the questions on the back of the page. She was heavy, jowly, almost regal, wearing a white smock, her hair cut short, tapping her thick finger on the paper as she read. Her chair emitted complaining squeaks when she shifted in it, as if provoked by her restless thoughts.
“I’m afraid I can’t take you on,” she said, sighing, removing her glasses, and facing Ray, who smiled back helplessly. “Did you do this deliberately, to make me feel even worse?”
Ray said, “The appointment was Shelby’s idea.”
Looking hard at Ray, the doctor said, “I thought I’d seen the last of you, and heard the last of your excuses. Maybe it’s unprofessional of me to say this—but it’s outrageous that you should come here out of the blue, after the way you treated me.” She gripped the armrests of her chair as though restraining herself. Sitting this way, her head tilted back, she looked like an emperor. “Now I must ask you to leave.”
Shelby was silent in the elevator, because of the other passengers, but in the street she said, “Tell me who she is—and don’t lie to me.”
“We were at B.U. together,” he said. “Pre-med.”
“You’re stalling,” Shelby said.
He was. But he had been thrown by “Dr. Devlin.” Her name had been Patricia Dorian—Armenian, a chemistry major. She’d been beautiful, with a sultry Central Asian cast to her face, full lips, and thick black hair. He’d taken her to a fraternity party, where they’d got drunk, and she’d said, “I feel sick. I have to lie down,” and she’d fallen asleep in his room, in his bed, only to wake in the morning half-naked but fully alert, saying, “Did you touch me? What did you do to me? Tell me!”
He’d said, truthfully, that he could not remember, but he was half-naked, too. And that was the beginning of a back-and-forth of recrimination that had ended with Patricia changing her major to psychology, so that she would not have to face Ray in the chem lab again.
“I knew her long ago,” Ray said.
“Don’t tell me any more,” Shelby said. She turned her gray eyes on him and said, “She looks like you, too.”
Shelby became humorless and doubting. She was like a much older woman, cautious in her movements, as though she feared she might trip; quieter and more reflective, almost rueful when Ray passed the bedroom and saw her lying alone—her bedroom. He slept in the spare room now.
He wanted to tell her that most people have flawed pasts, have acted selfishly at some point in their lives, and then moved on. New experiences take the place of old ones, new memories, better memories; and all the old selves become interred in a forgetfulness that is itself merciful. This was the process of aging, each new decade burying the previous one; that long-ago self was a stranger.
But all that these women had was the past. They dragged him back into it, into their ritual of unfulfillment, with these endless visitations—old women, old loves, old objects of desire with faces like bruised fruit.
Instead of saying this to Shelby, he called her father, who did not seem fazed by his story. He hardly reacted, and when Ray pressed him for an opinion the man said, “I can’t help you.”
Ray said, “She’s like a stranger.”
“That’s my Shelby,” the man said, and hung up.
Shelby still worked with him. Her father’s abruptness, his grim amusement, had rattled Ray, and so he said to her, “You are everything to me now. Those women are all gone and forgotten.”
This was in the office. There was a knock, the receptionist saying, “We have a new patient.”
Ray went cold when he saw her tilted back in the chair, awaiting his examination. She did not even have to say, “Remember me?” He remembered her. He remembered his mistake. She was Sharon, from the cleaning company. He had been surprised, years earlier, that someone so young—no more than eighteen or so—was doing this menial job. Why wasn’t she in school? he’d asked her. “I hate school,” she said. “I want to make some money.” She’d seemed to linger in her work, and one evening when they were alone Ray had pulled her to him while she was mopping, and kissed her, hoping for more. But she’d pushed him away, and wiped her mouth with the back of her hand, and never come back. Shelby had become his hygienist later that year, so she knew nothing of Sharon. And he’d never seen Sharon again, or thought of her—it had been only a foolish, impulsive, hopeful kiss!—until now.
She stared at him with implacable eyes; her very lack of expression seemed accusatory. He did not recall her being so plain, so fierce. She had been young, attractive, in a T-shirt and shorts, with a long-handled mop in her hands. Now she lay canted back in the chair, as Shelby hooked on her earpieces and adjusted the protective goggles. Sharon’s mouth was prominent, her cold eyes blurred by the plastic. She seemed weirdly masked, with an upside-down face, from where Ray stood, slightly behind her. Her mouth began to move, the bite of the teeth reversed.
“You got yourself a hot assistant now,” Sharon said. “Bet you kiss her, too, when no one’s looking.”
“This is my wife,” Ray said. “Now open wide and let me have a look.”
“I can’t do this,” Shelby said. She gathered the loops of the suction device and tossed them into the sink.
“Shel,” he said. Then, seeing that it was hopeless, that Shelby had closed the door behind her, he attended to Sharon, his fingers in her mouth, gagging her. He wanted to pull out her tongue.
When he had finished the cleaning, he said, “You’ve never been here as a patient before. I haven’t seen you in years. You don’t need any serious work. Why did you come?”
“Just a spur-of-the-moment thing,” Sharon said. “Hey, you probably think that kissing me and touching me like that was something I’d forget.”
He sighed. He was going to shout, but he forced himself to speak calmly. “I’m done. I’ve knocked some barnacles off your teeth. Don’t come back. If you do, I will refuse to see you.”
Now the goggles were off and Sharon was upright, blinking like a squirrel. She licked a smear of toothpaste from her lips and said, “I won’t come back. I don’t need to. I’ve done what I had to do.”
“What was that?”
“Make you remember.”
But he had not forgotten—he remembered her as a girl, alone in the corridor by his office, holding the sudden promise of pleasure. The shock to him on her return was that she had aged, that she was rawboned and resentful and no longer attractive.
Before going home to Shelby that day, he looked at himself in the bathroom mirror and hated his face. He hated what time had done to it; he hated what time had done to these women. He hated the sight of his hands. He had flirted with and pawed these old women. They all look like you. I sometimes think they are you.
Shelby treated him as though he were dangerous. She seemed afraid to be with him, afraid of who might show up unbidden, which hag from the past come to confront Ray, to remind him of what he’d done and who he was, an old beast they all haunted because they could not forgive him. She seemed to regard him as the monster that, in his worst moments, he believed himself to be, the embodiment of everything he’d done. And now, thanks to these offended women, she knew every one of his reckless transgressions.
Soon she stopped coming to work, and the two of them lived separately in the house, taking turns in the kitchen, eating their meals apart, more like hostile roommates than like a married couple—a reënactment of his last months with Angie.
He called Angie again, but this time there was no answering machine. The number had been disconnected. Then he found out why. A patient said casually, just as he’d finished putting on a crown, “Sorry about Angie.”
Misunderstanding, he began to explain, and then realized that the patient was telling him that Angie had died.
It had happened two weeks before. He found the details online on the Medford Transcript Web site. Collapsed and died after a short illness. Instead of going home, he drove the seventy-five miles to the cemetery and knelt at her grave. A metal marker with her name, courtesy of the funeral home, had been inserted into the ruglike cover of new sod. He told himself that he was sorrowful, but he did not feel it: he was relieved; he felt lighter; he blamed Angie for the swarm of old lovers. This feeling scared him in the dampness of the cemetery, where he suspected that he was being watched. It was then, looking around, that he saw that Angie was buried next to her mother, a reunion of sorts.
He told Shelby that Angie had died. “It’s a turning point!” They could start all over again.
“You actually seem glad that Angie’s dead,” Shelby said. “Poor Angie.”
After Angie’s death, the visitations ceased. But, demoralized, humiliated, Shelby left him. She did not divorce him at once. She demanded a house, and he provided it. She asked for severance pay from her job, and got it. They spoke through lawyers, until it was final, and he was alone.
Ray is not surprised, one night, when he is woken by a clatter, the sound of someone hurrying in darkness. It is a familiar sound. He awaits the visitation, hoping that it will make him less lonely. Perhaps it is Angie who has come to mock him. He wants to beg for her forgiveness. No, it is not Angie’s voice. It is Shelby’s, and it is triumphant. But the body, the hag’s face, is his own. 

