Mayfly
By Kevin Canty
Driving across the [REDACTED] desert on I-70, James hit a butterfly with his car. Then another. Then a shower of them, tapping the windshield like hail, wings trapped in the wipers, orange and black. The noise of them, muted but steady, woke Molly from her trance, and she looked out the windshield, at broken wings and yellow smears.
“Oh, God,” she said. “We have to stop.”
“We can’t stop.”
“We have to,” Molly said. “Look at them.”
She was about to cry. He could hear it in her voice. He eased the car onto the shoulder and got out. It was afternoon and hot in the sun. Butterflies were everywhere, big monarchs heading north out of [REDACTED]. It was insect weather, the air alive with fluttering wings, a cloud of color as far as he could see.
“Let’s wait,” Molly said. “Maybe they’ll all pass by.”
“Maybe,” James said. He didn’t think so. He looked at the tangle of wings and bodies in the grille of the car. Some of them were still moving, or maybe it was just the wind. Butterflies landed on his arm, his face, his hair, creeping him out. But Molly’s eyes were wet. Let her sort it out, he thought. Let Molly figure it out for herself.
Tractor-trailer rigs roared by on the freeway, trailing wakes of wind and bugs. The highway was open, empty, each car and truck separated by a minute or two. Between cars, the valley lay huge and silent, surrounded by mountains, gray in the distance. Plants he didn’t know the names of clung to the ground, low and gray and spiky-looking.
“Maybe we should just go back,” Molly said. She lit a cigarette.
“We can’t go back.”
“Well, I mean, we could.”
“We’ll never make it all the way home,” James said. “We’ll end up in a motel in Salt Lake City. Look, if we just keep going we’ll get there by dark. It’ll be fine.”
“We can’t drive through this.”
We could, he thought. I would, probably. A few butterflies more or less on the hood of the car wouldn’t make such a big difference. . . .
“I can go slow for a while,” he said. “Maybe we can drive out of it.”
“Do we have a choice?”
“No. Not really. We can’t stay here.”
“Then do what you have to.”
She stubbed the cigarette out and tucked the butt carefully into the pack. James got back behind the wheel, feeling the distance between them, the sharp angle. This was, somehow, his fault: bugs pinging off the windshield, even at fifty-five. Molly bundled into herself, knees up, arms wrapped around them, forming an obstinate lump of Molly. She wasn’t being dramatic, or faking anything. She hated this. To be honest, it was part of what he loved about her, just not now. They had got into this and now they had to get out. And he was the one driving, the one to take the blame.
They drove out of it in a mile.
They had planned this trip in better times. Then Molly had lost her job. It wasn’t all that much of a job, but it was hard for James to imagine her getting another. It felt to him that she had taken this little setback as permission to surrender. Not that she didn’t care—she cared passionately about everything there was to care about. She worried endlessly; she woke at four to jumbled, urgent thoughts and couldn’t get back to sleep. But James didn’t see how someone would hire her, with her smudgy eyes, her so-so record.
They got to Sam and Jenny’s place an hour after dark, an hour of trying to follow vague directions, their headlights illuminating tiny pitch-black roads. James wasn’t sure they had it right until they pulled into the driveway and there was Sam’s old Land Cruiser rusting away. He shut the lights off and dense pine-scented dark rushed in all around them.
“Hello?” he called.
“Hey,” Sam said. He was above them, leaning over the railing of a deck, the coal of a cigar glowing in his hand. He said, “I thought you were coming tomorrow.”
“No,” James said. “Today. It was always today.”
“Well, hell,” Sam said. “Come on up. You eat yet?”
Just at that moment the downstairs flooded with light and the door opened, and Jenny was in the doorway with a baby in her arms. “Come in,” she said. “Jeez, you guys. I should never have trusted Sam. Come on in!”
Hugs and kisses, children, beer for James, a natural soda for Molly. She had decided the previous fall that her father was an alcoholic and she was therefore at risk. The baby was Sam, Jr., the girls named Iris and Olive. Iris was the only one not yet in p.j.’s, maybe five or six? James could never tell. Jenny gave them sandwiches, which added another round of confusion, for when Molly said vegan Jenny heard vegetarian and made them cheese-and-avocado sandwiches. Sam yelled commands and suggestions from the porch, and when they were done eating they went to join him, leaving Jenny to put the young ones down. Iris lingered at the edge of the light.
“The happy couple,” Sam said. “When’s the blessed event?”
“Sent you an invitation,” James said. “September, down in [REDACTED]. Santa Rosa.”
“It’s where my mom lives,” Molly said. “She can’t travel.”
“Man, I hate [REDACTED],” Sam said. “Every time I go there, some kind of shit happens. Last time it was a six-hundred-dollar traffic ticket.”
“What were you doing?”
“Oh,” Sam said. “A few things.”
In the light of the kerosene lantern, his face was wider, rounder, his hairline heading north. He looked older, of course. In their mid-thirties, they all looked older except for Molly. All this sobriety and veganism had given her skin a translucent glow, and she kept getting new tattoos. But Sam looked like his father now, tobacco-cured. Sam and James had shared a house in college, and once a month or so Sam’s father would drive up from [REDACTED] and take them out for steaks. Always ordered the best wine. Sam’s father had thought the boys should learn Bordeaux from Burgundy, from Mayacamas and Stags’ Leap. He got them tickets to the Rockies’ games, and, a couple of times, the Broncos’. He’d been dead three years now.
But that joy, that mastery, seemed to be missing from the current Sam, who looked, in the lamplight, as if something had been taken from him. He said, “I’ve been skiing again this year.”
“I thought you gave it up,” James said.
“Well, Iris is on the bunny slope now. Her school, they take them all up there in kindergarten, so, you know, father-daughter. It’s a trip. The kids have no center of gravity! They’re just, like, zoom zoom down the bunny slope. How about you? Are you getting out?”
“Ah, you know,” James said. “Work and all. A couple of times a year.”
“We need to find you a new job,” Sam said. “How many students did you tell me you had?”
“A hundred and forty,” James said.
“Jesus. I couldn’t do it.”
“Well,” James said, “some days are better than others.”
“You’re a hundred per cent right,” Molly said. “This job is killing him.”
James started to say something, but sipped his beer instead. The two of them had the same knack for finding a sore spot and then poking it. He wanted nothing more than an escape to graduate school, a few years on the Ph.D. gravy train. He had been assured by his former teachers that he would have no problem getting in, getting funding. But someone had to pay the bills. It wasn’t going to be Molly. He thought of his satchel, in the dark of the trunk, resting with a hundred and forty essays about “Hamlet” inside.
Sam said, “I know I screwed up, but I thought you were coming tomorrow night. I have to go down to [REDACTED] in the morning; I’ve got an appointment I shouldn’t break. Y’all want to drive down to [REDACTED] with me? Make a day of it? I was thinking I’d be home for dinner, but if you want to come—”
“I don’t think I’m getting back in the car anytime soon,” James said. “I’ve got my windshield time in for the week. You could go down, though,” he said to Molly. “Might be your best chance to see Colette.”
“Oh, God,” Molly said.
“You said you were going to while we were here.”
“Oh, maybe I’ll give her a call.”
James cast a Parachute Adams on the far bank of the creek and remembered fishing with his father on another stretch of the Fraser, all those tiny breakfast trout. Torturing animals for fun, as Molly would say. She was in [REDACTED] for the day, a day in which James could make his own choices.
At this altitude, almost nine thousand feet, the sun was clear and dangerous. It felt like nothing in the cool of the morning, but it would burn you. He wore a cowboy hat, a long-sleeved Western shirt, a bathing suit, and wader boots over neoprene socks: wet wading. His exposed skin was hot from the sun but freezing where the water silked around his legs. It made him feel alive—that sensation of both things at once.
It was almost noon, and the pale morning duns were tapering off into a spinner fall that was impossible to fish. The bugs were too small and dead and lay right on the water. This was when his father would break out the Roll-A-Table and the cooler and set them up with sandwiches and beer and they would decide whether to fish out the slow hours of the afternoon or take a siesta or head back into town for supplies. This last sometimes led into the bar, some friendly Western place with wood floors and a pool table and warm afternoon sunlight slanting in.
Orphan, James thought. His father had been dead for two years. His mother had gone a couple of years before that.
Usually, James was the one who wanted to fish out the afternoon, especially toward the end. His father had seemed to lose his appetite for everything. A little fishing, a little supper, ten minutes of a movie, and he was done with it. All but the drinking. James hadn’t liked it then, but now he wished that he could have another jukebox afternoon with his father, drinking Budweiser, playing eight ball.
When he got back to the house, it was almost one. Maybe he’d go out again later, feel the swirl of water on his legs.
The house was even bigger in the hard daylight—a wall of glass two stories high, a walk-in fireplace, log decks and trusses and columns. It was vulgar. But who was he to call anything a name? He lived in a little house he’d bought for nothing, a former college-student rental. Bit by bit he was fixing it up. By the time he was ninety, it would be perfect.
Butterflies again, in the mud by the side of the driveway, little blue butterflies by the hundreds. They landed and lit out again, restless. In his hair, on his bare arms.
“Three kids is a lot of kids,” Jenny said. “Four is one too many.”
The little ones were down for their afternoon naps, and Iris off at preschool. Jenny and James were out on the deck, under a canvas shade that felt like a sail, riffling in the breeze. Out of the sun, it was still cool, climbing toward four o’clock.
“You knew that job was dangerous when you took it,” James said.
He expected Jenny to laugh, but she didn’t.
“He killed somebody,” she said. “Last winter, between [REDACTED] and here.”
“Jesus. What happened?”
“He was driving somebody. A girl. A girl from here. Anyway, he was driving down on a Saturday afternoon and he hit a patch of ice in that truck he used to have. Went into the guardrail pretty hard. I guess she wasn’t wearing her seat belt for some reason.”
She shrugged. It occurred to James that they were not going to make it, these two. They were not going to stay married.
“Was he drunk?” James asked.
“Not quite,” she said.
“I’m sorry.”
“Oh, don’t worry,” Jenny said. “Nothing’s happened yet. Maybe nothing will. But I just wanted to give you a heads-up.”
“How long—”
“Always,” Jenny said. “There’s not, like, a starting point. You know.”
“And you’ve tried.”
Jenny laughed. “We went to see a shrink, together. You know what she told us?”
James shook his head.
“First thing out of her mouth,” Jenny said. “She tells us that counselling never works. That by the time we’ve got enough of an emergency going it’s too late.”
“Nice.”
“It’s all uphill from here,” she said. “He doesn’t know, I think. What it’s going to be like. If he knew, he’d do things differently. Maybe that’s wishful thinking.”
“You want me to talk to him?”
“Please don’t,” Jenny said. “I mean, if he brings it up, fine. You can do whatever makes sense to you. But I just didn’t want this to come as a surprise, you know? It’s always so busy around here.”
“The girl,” James said. “The one who died.”
“We haven’t talked about her,” Jenny said.
James was doing the dishes, listening to Jenny rock the baby to sleep. Still no word from Sam and Molly. They weren’t answering their cell phones. Maybe they were out of range, in the mountains between the house and [REDACTED].
Jenny had fed the children early and then she and James ate all the leftover mac-and-cheese, dousing it in a grapefruit-habañero hot sauce. Then James held the sleeping baby while Jenny gave the girls a bath, then the baby woke up and James read “Curious George” to the girls on the sofa. The girls were off to bed and the baby almost asleep and James did the dishes, happy in soapy water and dreaming of a life he’d never lived, this one. This little unreal bubble. Waiting for the man in the yellow hat.
And at the edge of this bubble lay the pricks and thorns, his growing sense of panic. Why did it matter so much to him that his friends stay married, that they stay happy? But it did. He wanted everything to stay the same forever. He wanted his parents back. He wanted to think that he and Molly would live happily ever after.
And to have sent the two of them off together—Molly and Sam. Idiocy.
He plunged his hands into the warm water again, to calm himself, and listened to Jenny softly singing to her baby. A gas fire flickered in the grate.
When he was done, he poured a glass of wine for himself and went out to the deck while Jenny put the baby down. At this altitude, in the dry air, the stars shone steady and bright. So many stars! He had forgotten. A small pleasant thought began to take shape inside him. Molly and Sam would not come back. They would run off together, into whatever hazy future they imagined. They were meant for each other, runaway souls.
James let himself rest in the thought for a few minutes. When had Molly become a problem? She was funny and beautiful in an unusual way, and she loved to have sex—the one pleasure she had left herself. She was smart, though inarticulate. And she loved him. James tried to find the place where he loved her, too, but all he could come up with was jealousy, and a feeling of ownership. Sam was trying to steal something that belonged to him. This was all he had, and it seemed like not enough.
“She sleeps under the bed now,” Jenny said, spilling light onto the deck as she came through the glass doors. The curtains slid shut behind her and it was dark again.
“Who does?”
“Oh, Iris.” Jenny set her wineglass down, then opened a box under the seat of one of the benches and brought out a lighter, a pack of American Spirits, and an ashtray. She lit one for herself, without offering.
“First time she did it, she scared the crap out of me,” Jenny said. “I was on my way to bed, went to kiss her good night and her bed was empty. I couldn’t believe it, turned on all the lights. I guess I started screaming. Of course, I woke everybody up. And there’s this little head—she pops out from under the dust ruffle with this serious look on her face. I don’t know what she was doing.”
“I always wondered what that was called.”
“What?”
“Dust ruffle.”
Jenny laughed. “Also known as a bed skirt,” she said. “Anyway, that’s where she sleeps now. She’s got a sleeping bag and a flashlight and a pile of books and a couple of her animals. I think she’s scared, James.”
“I’m scared, too. How much room is there under there?”
“What are you scared of?”
I feel like my life is ending, he thought. My life as I have known it.
He said, “Nothing in particular.”
Jenny looked at him shrewdly through a film of smoke. Some little fire in her eyes.
“Eggs and omelettes,” she said.
At midnight, she came out of the house with a bottle of Russian vodka, straight from the freezer. The night was cold by then—James had on his plaid wool overshirt, and Jenny a fleece—but the bottle was colder, a skin of frost on the glass. She poured them each a shot glass full. Jenny said, “They’re his children, too.”
“That’s right.” 
“He can get up with them.”
“Is that how it works?”
“No,” she said, and tossed the shot down her throat, gazing up afterward into the night. The stars were putting on a show, the moon etched sharply into the sky. She had a nice, long neck. She swallowed twice, as if she were holding back tears, then filled her glass again. James could touch her if he wanted to. He was almost sure.
“Here’s how it works,” she said. “You have your kids and you love them and you take care of them. And what somebody else does or doesn’t do, it doesn’t matter.”
“Still,” James said. “It’s not fair.”
“Fuck fair,” she said.
“O.K.”
“No, seriously,” Jenny said, and lit another cigarette. “Fair is like a children’s game—your turn, my turn. It’s like what five-year-olds do, and then it goes away. And then you get married and have kids and it all comes back. I changed the diaper last time. Now it’s your turn to change the diaper. Fuck that.”
“What else is there?”
“You just go,” she said. “A thousand per cent. You just give yourself up. Bliss.”
“It doesn’t sound like bliss.”
“Oh, it is. You just abandon yourself. The temple of yourself—you know, that big important thing? You just let it go. Standing there with my hands dirty with baby shit, cleaning the floors, it’s super-simple. I love them. I do what I can to keep them alive and happy. It’s like I’m not even there—there’s no person, no history.”
She poured herself another shot of vodka, then one for James. She got up and shut off the porch light and the darkness flooded in around them, the immense breathing darkness of the forest. A fairy tale, James thought. The witch’s house. Jenny lit a cigarette and her face flared in the lighter flame.
“He keeps an apartment down in [REDACTED],” she said. “For when he has to work or has a dinner or something. It’s a long drive at night.”
At three, James was not asleep. He was lying on his side, looking out the open window, feeling the cold night air, when Jenny came into the room in a long, old-fashioned nightgown and lay down next to him on the bed.
“A night like this,” she said.
“I know,” James said.
“I don’t want to . . . you know,” she said.
“No, that’s fine.”
For a few minutes they lay side by side on their backs, like a king and a queen on the top of an old tomb. James heard her breathing and wondered what it meant. He felt the length and warmth of her thigh, pressed up against his, through the thin cotton of her nightgown. The warmth of her breath. What did he dare? He felt a desire for her that was strictly sexual, centered exactly in his cock. He willed her to touch it.
“This isn’t going to work,” she said, as if she had heard his thought, and she gathered up her nightgown and left. Alone in the dark—just a sliver of dim light at the edge of the door—he heard her moving in the hallway outside, heard a door close, then heard the toilet flush. He heard the light switch being turned off and then her footsteps, and then she was back in the room and she locked the door behind her and said, “Quiet,” and she was naked next to him and they were kissing.
The baby went off like a telephone at seven-thirty in the morning and she was already gone, James awake and wondering if he had ever slept and feeling as if he were still in some dream that wouldn’t quit, but then he smelled her sweat and her faint perfume in the pillow and he wondered at himself and at her. Outside the window the sunlight was clear and correct, the lucid light of altitude. Sam’s Land Cruiser was still gone from the gravel in front of the house. Sounds of children and morning leaked up from the floor below: a coffee grinder, a cartoon.
James was naked, tangled in bedsheets. The comforter lay in a heap on the floor; a flash of color, peering out from a fold, turned out to be her panties, striped purple and white. Mine, he thought. He tucked the panties into the pocket of a sweatshirt, deep in a dark corner of his suitcase.
He thought that he should feel bad about the night before. He expected that he would, sooner or later.
But James didn’t feel at all bad. Instead, he felt energized and alive and full of some strange mystery-of-life juice compounded of come and blood and dazzling morning sunlight. He could have preached the Sermon on the Mount if he had to. Leap tall buildings in a single bound. But first, he thought, breakfast.
He dressed quickly, brushed his teeth, combed his bed-sprung hair with water until it lay nearly flat on his head. He stood and spied outside the kitchen door: Jenny making a sandwich, zipping it into a plastic bag, which went, in turn, into a purple nylon lunch bag. Apple, juice box. She spotted him and smiled. She was happy to see him. Small miracle.
“You’re up early!” she said, and poured him a cup of coffee. “I hope we didn’t wake you.”
“No, no,” James said.
She leaned close to him, and for a thrilling moment he thought she was going to kiss him.
“My cigarettes,” she whispered. “I forgot to put them away last night.”
“O.K.,” he said, brightly, loudly. Iris, the schoolgirl, was looking at him curiously. Sam, Jr., sat lordly in his high chair. It was a whole different movie down here in the kitchen, one in which James didn’t really have a part. He looked at Jenny, thought of her panties, deep in his bag. But even sex magic didn’t seem to be working; she bustled, motherly, feeding the baby, wiping the counters.
James took his coffee and the sports section of the paper out to the deck. He put her cigarettes and lighter away and stowed the vodka bottle under a bench, out of sight. The cup is already broken, he thought. He wasn’t sure what he meant by this, but the words ran through his head. He sat in the sun, sipping his coffee, enjoying the heaviness of his limbs. The pale morning duns would be on the water, little white mayflies floating with the current, and again he remembered his father. Maybe that was it, James thought: his mother was dead and his father was dead and there was no one to apologize to. The cup is already broken, and no one cares. He was done taking care of Molly. She’d find a way, or she wouldn’t. He was young and his body was a source of pleasure to him, supple and strong. It would carry him to many further adventures.
He was imagining what these adventures might be, counting the possibilities, when the rusty white Land Cruiser appeared at the end of the drive. A little thrill of danger. Something would happen next.
“What?” Molly said as she got out.
Sam slapped him on the back on his way into the kitchen, whistling. James remembered this about him, the way he never seemed to have a hangover, always got up cheerful. It was one of the things that had made him a pain in the ass to live with.
“Where were you last night?” James asked.
“At Colette’s,” she said, and seemed surprised. “Why?”
“I tried and tried to get ahold of you.”
“I didn’t have my charger with me,” she said. “I didn’t think I was going to need it. But then your friend got just totally shitfaced and I didn’t want to drive back with him.” She leaned in closer to him, so close that he could smell soap and sweat, and whispered, “He’s really crazy, James.”
“Where did Sam stay, then?”
“In his car,” she said. “In the driveway. Crazy.”
And she was telling the truth. He knew right away. All the lightness and the ease that he had felt dissipated at once, evaporated like dew in the sun, all the adventures, all the different people he would be. And, afterward, only once in a while did he remember, as on the October morning, months later, when he was grading papers at his desk in the bedroom and Molly came to kiss him, fresh out of the shower, wearing nothing but a white cotton tank top and a pair of purple-and-white striped panties.
“The weird thing,” she said. “I don’t even remember when I bought these. Do you?”
“No idea,” James said.
“Oh, well,” she said, and kissed him again, and dressed and got her satchel and went off to the coffee shop to work on her play. 

