Ox Mountain Death Song
By Kevin Barry
He had been planting babies all over the Ox Mountains since he was seventeen years old. Well, he had the hair for it, and the ferret grin, and there was hardly a female specimen along that part of the Sligo-Mayo border that hadn’t taken the scan of his hazel glance, or hadn’t had the hard word laid on, in the dark corners of bars, or in the hormone maelstrom of the country discos, or in untaxed cars, down back roads, under the silly, silly moonlight. He had soft girlish eyelashes and pig-ignorant shoulders—sex on a stick, was his own opinion, and too many of the foolish girls, the foolish women, shared it. He kept several on the string at any given time but as soon as they got weight on them he left them.
Now there are those who in a lifetime cannot leave a woman—who cannot gather the strength or get past the sentiment—but Canavan left them every day.
The first time Sergeant Brown came across this latest Canavan—he was from a family a long while notorious—was in the station house, when the boy was fourteen and had totalled a stolen Celica on the Ballymote Road, and the first thing the Sergeant did was hit him the slap of a phone book across the back of the head.
“That’ll take the fucken ferret out of you,” he said, though of course it did not, and Canavan just smirked, sexily.
The witch hazel of the eyes and the sulfur of the smirk—these betrayed to the Sergeant that young Canavan would at some future point kill.
He hit him another slap of the phone book.
“Lose the fucken face!” he cried. “You’re nothin’ only a fucken knacker off the Ox!”
If the regal youth felt pain it did not show. He merely flicked his blond fringe, spat a tooth, and spoke in a voice already deep-down and mannish.
“And you’re nothin’ only a fucken swing-key,” he said.
Come up to a humid Sunday of late June—
The day had the ominous feeling of such gray dense Sundays—it was sour with foreboding—as the vapors of paranoia floated in from Killala Bay and the ridgeback line of the Ox Mountains lay prone, like a crouched beast, its tone dark bluish in the haze, sombre, and watchful like a beast. 

The detective, Sergeant Brown—Sergeant Tom Brown, plainly—drove an unmarked Primera along the sea road in his flop sweat and rancor.
“Bastard,” he said.
He was trying to keep a fix on the Canavan’s movements but it was to no avail—the fucker was like water through your hands. And what troubled the Sergeant above all was the fact of the fungating mass. This Canavan was not long for the world or its women.
He might do anything now.
Sergeant Brown was from a line of guards. His father had been the sergeant at Aughris before he drank himself into the clay of the place. His father’s father had, at the time it was still Royal Irish Constabulary, been the sergeant at Ballinacarrow before he drank himself into the clay of the place. His father’s father’s father had been the sergeant at Easkey when they were still jawing grass at the side of the road and spitting the green juice, and he, too, had drank himself into the clay of the place.
Sergeant Tom Brown did not drink. He suffered instead the terrible want of a sweet tooth. [REDACTED] ran him. He sat in a humid murk, himself vaporous, gently steaming, in the Primera, outside the Emo station, on the N59, beneath the hateful shadow of the Ox, and he ate a Swiss Roll.
He looked at himself in the mirror—the big sticky face on it like a child’s. “Here’s another day I get fucken fatter,” he said.
He wheezed terribly now climbing a stair. He wheezed as hard again coming down. He hadn’t enjoyed a mirror since the late eighties. He was sixty-five now and just three weeks from his retirement—his determination was to have Canavan looked after before it.
The consultant oncologist at the Regional Hospital went back so far with the Sergeant that they had done the long jump together. He was not only his oldest but among his most useful confidants. Canavan’s tumor, he explained, was feeding on his very youth and vitality.
“An auld fella might slow it,” he said. “A young fella won’t.”
It was pacing hard. It was spreading all over. It had gone into the lymph. Canavan, in his manly noon, at twenty-nine years of age, had refused the treatment, having been told it would likely make him impotent and the hair fall out.
“He won’t see Christmas lights, Tom,” the oncologist said.
And they both knew what that meant.
Canavan could do anything now.
He was about the Ox country yet. This much the Sergeant knew for sure. And about the Ox his powers were affiliated with the supernatural—you could corner him to a patch of ground the width of a postage stamp but even so he would wriggle free, and have time enough to look back over the shoulder, lock a glance, and smolder.
He knew the bog roads, the copses, the cypress arbors. He knew the recesses of the hills and the turlough hides. He knew the crannies of the coast. He knew the new-build estates and the spread and bungalow drift of the ever-changing villages, and the backways of townlands, and the gardens of priests, and the old walled demesnes, just as he knew the lairs of ripe widows, and the dampish, seablown, lavatorial odor of beachside apartments, and knew the tin-roofed sheds, the outbuildings, the caves. He knew Zion Hill and the Union Wood. He knew the ruts and tunnels of the country, the country of the Ox, a post-glaciated terrain, and knew where mountains had moved, the cracks and openings that were made—he knew the country of the Ox, and the infinite thousands of its hiding places.
A Canavan knew also the greatest of the male consolations—that a girl could be made to laugh, a girl with an apple-cheeked arse. The pale-green days of these Atlantic reaches could be enlivened only by fucking and fighting—moments of violent glow—and the Canavan magic was to make sparks from little. Each in the stepped line of the generations was a taunt to the next: a taunt to exceed, go further. Everything was passed down, the gestures even. The curl of lip and set of shoulders, and the weird skills, too, as in the way a Canavan could by wary nature catch on the air the tang of policeman—to a Canavan, it had an aniseed note.
The years gave in, the years gave out, and only the trousers changed—breeches of sackcloth gave way to rain-soaked gabardine, gave way to tobacco-scented twill, and on to the denim variations (boot cut; straight leg; at glamorous times, beflared), and then to the nylon track pant, and then to cotton sweats. The signal gesture of a Canavan in all this time did not change: it was a jerk of thumb to the waistband to hoick up the pants.
The Canavans—they had for decades and centuries brought to the Ox elements that were by turn complicated and simple: occult nous and racy semen.
As Canavan went about the country he was readied—in precisely the way that meat is readied when salted—by the saline taste of blood on his lips. 
Sergeant Tom Brown steered the Primera in accordance with the stirrings of his chubby hands—call it feel, or divination. The almost half century of his service had earned him an intuitive reading of an offender’s rhythms. He recognized the moment when a long hiatus in activity might break with quick flurries, the way a run of successes might stiffen the blood and embolden, the way the odds that were chanced could suddenly steepen, and most of all he knew the feeling of an imminent violence: it caused a clamminess to his skin and upset in his tummy.
The feeling was on him now as he drove the sea road on this Sunday of mist and fear. His hatred of a Canavan—of this particular and of the type—permeated his senses. Everything was off—his vision so blurred the road signs were a squiggled Arabic; his hearing out of whack as though shot by thunderclaps—and everything would remain off until the bastard was caught and done for.
“He’s not far,” he said, and as he rode sucked honey from a squeezable tub.
A pensioner in an old farmhouse on the Mayo side of the mountain—picture it forlorn—had on the Thursday previous heard a midnight rustling: she lit the yard lamp to find the Canavan with a slash hook raised and a finger to his matinée lips.
He took four hundred euros and a phone charger and for badness’ sake hit her a dig in the kidneys.
He had to be laid up someplace close.
The worry for Sergeant Brown was that Canavan could lay up now the way a ferret will lay up in the burrow with the rabbit it has killed, the forked spit of its tongue lapping at neck blood, the pointed teeth taking tendon and bone apart, the claws carefully tearing back the skin—so tender the care, almost loving—to reveal the feast of vitals within, a feed that might last for days, and there is no way of getting the ferret out again short of extendable poles or dynamite.
But it was merely patience that was required—a Canavan could not keep its snout down forever. It had to show itself always. The handsome dying face would seek again the light. Would take to dance floor or to barstool. Would search out the windows left open against the humid spell or try the handles of the parked cars at the golf club. All a Sergeant Brown—the particular, the type—had to do was be patient and wait and gauge closely the stirrings in his hands.
From a barman in Enniscrone he took first word of the widow—her new-build dormer, outside Easkey village, was the latest known Canavan hide.
When the Sergeant got there, at teatime on the Sunday, she was alone and already bruised. There were raspberry-colored thumb marks on her neck and shoulders. Under a sundress too young for her, the flesh had a high, mottled note, and she had the dead-eyed aura of drugs about her, and giddy, mobile tits.
“Ah, stupid,” she said. “Stupid!”
She wasn’t long over the top of fifty and as he sat opposite her and peered closer he saw that the mouth, too, was lately busted. The bottom lip was bee-stung yet with a rude sexual swell. Tan makeup did not quite hide a bruising to the cheekbone.
“Ah, I’d it coming to me,” she said.
Fucken eejit woman, the Sergeant thought.
“How long were you knocking around with him, Sheila?”
She slithered on the leather couch, working the sundress higher on the underside of the thigh, as the sea rasped outside, and she rolled her eyes to show the whites.
“Awhile,” she said proudly, and there was the smell of whiskey off her, too, a bottle of High Commissioner nearing its last on the coffee table.
Blended Scotch filth, the Sergeant thought.
“Where’s it he is now, Sheila?”
“I don’t fucken know, do I?”
“I’d say different, Sheila.”
“Can say what you fucken like.”
“Has he left anything here?”
She acknowledged that he had and it was in a bedroom thick with an unmentionable musk that the Sergeant went through Canavan’s holdall—a Reebok with a busted zipper. It contained a phone charger, a pack of Nurofen painkillers, a change of sweatpants, and some briefs. The holdall was heartbreaking and the sadness it caused set the Sergeant to his course.
He went back to her, as she poured the bottle’s last, and he eyed her carefully, and he was stirred for her and for the dying man both—their glow-of-life.
“Where’s he?”
“I said I don’t know.”
The Sergeant moved in beside her on the couch then, and slipped an arm around her shoulder, and clasped her tightly to him, and whispered why it was best that she tell.
“The treatment could help him yet, Sheila,” he said.
She looked at him as a serpent might.
“Could be it’s Keash Hill,” she said. “The caves up there.”
Breathing fatly, Tom Brown rose and made to leave the bright, impersonal dormer—its walls as thin as eggshells—where the widow had been fucked and beaten, and he knew, inarguably now, that within the shadow of the Ox a killing was imminent, and would occur before the country turned from dark into daylight again.
He considered the purplish thrill of her busted lip.
“That’d want a stitch,” he said.
She threw hate at him as he left.
“Fuck off,” she said.
The caves at Keash Hill were no more than a fifty-minute haul from the Ox Mountains and there lay the remnants of elk, wolves, bear. It was a place haunted by desperate mammals since the hills and mountains had cracked and opened—as the province of Connaught formed—a place with a diabolic feeling sometimes along its shale and bracken stretches; a darkness that seeped not from above but from beneath.
Sergeant Brown parked on a side road and walked the ledged ascent—he held a palm to his heart for fear that it might at any moment give.
The higher he climbed the more treacherous the ledges and just barely was the track a fat man’s width. His small feet were nervous in tan brogues and swam greasily in their socks. The last of the long Sunday shed light for a half-darkness; the sky had deepened in the haze; the corduroy lines of its vapor trails wavered on the fade. The half-night was shadowland. A killing will name its time and it had named it for now. He found the Canavan sitting outside the last and highest of the caves, sucking on a cigarette, blithely, with his legs hooked up beneath him, and aware fully that the killing time had been named, and that this time he could not wriggle free.
“Get up,” the Sergeant said.
The handsome eyes burned into the Sergeant as he rose and Tom Brown wanted to belt him and he wanted to kiss him.
For the Sergeant there was no decision to be made. Take one of them and spare one of us—an act votive to his trade. As he marched his captive down the ledges it took just the palm of a hand to the small of the back—a jolt and sudden force, and the Canavan was over the ledge, and falling, and the rocks below made quick silent work of the hazel eyes, the languor, the cancer.
There was no victory in it. Sergeant Brown knew as he drove the sea road home that each tiny light that burned on the Ox might burn to light a Canavan child, and it would be no time at all until he was in long pants, and no time at all until he was driving, and the Sergeant would by then be cold and sober in the clay of Sligo, or at best in the coronary-care unit, and all that would be left to him would be the fear, which persists.
He feared now the summer night for its sly and sweetfound darkness, and he imagined on the night breeze a sardonic note, as though the Ox were taunting. These mountains, their insistences: those who would run would run and those who must follow must follow, and waiting—oh, wasn’t there always—some heated foolish girl. Listen—
The tinkled chime of her laugh against the mountain black as she feigns outrage at a dropped hand, and now—listen—the tiniest brushing of the air as her eyelashes close and bring down the darkness: the falling-in-love-all-over-again. 

