Member / Guest
By David Gilbert
He was always perched in the same spot, on the terrace, in one of those Adirondack chairs that overlooked the steps and the crowd of shoes kicked off for the sand. Down on the beach, blue canvas chairs and umbrellas defended their small claims of oceanfront, where mothers pretended to read and not gossip about gossip—local gossip, celebrity gossip—and fathers checked watches and humored their gossipy wives until it was time for tennis or golf. The adults who were not yet mothers or fathers lounged about like minor gods, plucking tans from the sky, their secondhand freedom lustily inhaled by young and old alike. Dead ahead played the world’s widest Cinemascope: the sea. The last few days the waves had been too rough for children but perfect for middle-aged men, who bodysurfed with abandon, their flabby technique mocked by a few boys on the shore who leaned against boogie boards and bitched about the shallow break. They stood near the lifeguard stand, which was front and center, like the gnomon of a sundial. Back on the terrace, the man in the Adirondack chair presided over this scene, his eyes remaining within the ropes that boxed in this orbit of sand and stretched a hundred yards into the ocean, toward white barrels that marked the civilized limit, the parameters of the all-seeing club, beyond which, it was silently agreed, the world became unruly.
I hate this stupid place, Beckett thought.
She turned back toward her three friends, best summer friends whom this summer she found annoying. They were like a favorite TV show that had gone all ridiculous, yet you stayed tuned, hoping that the silly plots would get better. But, no, these three were still talking about Brad Sawyer and Justin Miller and how they wondered if what was in their shorts was as smooth, as tan and muscular as their torsos, currently posed toward the sea.
“Picture Barbie-doll skin,” said Natalie, at fourteen no longer Nat.
“That big?” asked Josephine—thanks to Nat, no longer Josie.
“Picture the leg.”
“That skinny?”
“Roughly, I think, when erect.” Natalie was the sexual oracle for this group, since she had older twin brothers and an older older sister, plus she had a year of boarding school under her belt and God knows what happened there. Just last week, Natalie had convened the girls in her family’s cabana and dug from her beach bag a condom—a Trojan, Beckett noticed, which brought to mind a horse loaded with nineteen-year-old boys. The girls oohed and giggled, unsure of what might come next amid the bathing suits dried stiff on pegs and the twins’ surfboards abandoned for summer jobs in Nantucket, the [REDACTED] version of the [REDACTED] Pacific. The girls were silent as Natalie scooped sand from a bright-red bucket—an artifact from another era—and carefully filled the latex. Slowly, a creature emerged. They regarded this animal like biologists with no field experience, only a wobbly theory of existence. Each girl took a turn holding the concept between her legs, where it swung like an hourglass near bursting, until Beckett turned the thing into a bludgeon and slapped Josephine on the thigh.
Clio, who was still Clio, laughed at the word “erect.” “That’s toxic,” she said.
Everything that summer was toxic.
“Maybe I should find my old Barbies and practice,” Josephine joked.
“Yeah,” Clio said, “we can rediscover our youth. All our moms will be so happy, seeing their girls playing with Barbies again.” Clio clapped her hands, her nail polish noticeably chipped, as if applied last week for a game of dress-up. “They’d never suspect.”
“Suspect what?” Beckett asked, finally sick of the conversation.
“You know.”
“You’re right, I know, but I want to hear you say it.”
“I don’t need to say it.”
“Because you don’t know.”
“Um, like a dodo,” Clio half whispered.
“That’s an extinct bird,” Beckett shot back.
“Dido?”
Beckett sassed her head. “Yes, Aeneas, my love.”
The other girls laughed, pushing their fingers and toes unconsciously into the sand, into the cool layer underneath, where they had once spent hours creating intricate tunnel systems, arms stretching for the tickle of a breakthrough. Clio, poor thing, lived in Westchester and had none of the native [REDACTED] smarts the rest of the girls claimed by way of Zip Code. She probably didn’t even get the reference.
Beckett turned toward Natalie, upping the stakes. “O.K., smarty, who’s Aeneas?”
“It’s dildo,” Natalie told Clio, almost sweetly.
“But who’s Aeneas?” Beckett persisted.
Natalie, the prettiest of the group, the girl who, unlike the three other girls, had those cool older siblings, Natalie, who had a super-rich financier father and a writer stepmother, a funky mother and a stepfather involved in the arts, Natalie, with her angular face and gazelle legs and size-B boobs that shot perky parallel lines into the sunglasses of men and women who muttered, “Here comes trouble,” in differing tones, Natalie—there must be a Natalie in every group, Beckett figured, even ugly girls must have their Natalie, a Natalie upon whom you wish a little hardship and maybe, on sleepless nights, a full-blown tragedy, a Natalie who elicits the worst in you and confirms your own petty sense of self, that goddam bitch—levelled her privet-green gaze on Beckett and said, “Arma virumque cano—shall I translate?”
Beckett shook her head.
Natalie decided that she wanted a Shirley Temple, and the others agreed, of course, enjoying, as they did, the trip to the bar, where adults were most adult and bartenders stood in formal uniform. Every frothy whim could be signed away on a chit, and grenadine was as good as hard booze compared with last season’s pink lemonade. So up the steps they trotted. As usual, Beckett lagged behind, often breaking away and leaving her departure a mystery, a sort of preëmptive ditch. The man on the terrace paid them no heed. He just sat in his chair, dressed in khaki shorts and a white polo shirt, reading, as always, a hardcover with the dust jacket removed. Beckett thought he was nice-looking: thick brown hair, dark eyes, a trim but not muscular physique. It seemed the elements, in particular the wind, had done some work on his skin. No doubt his hands were calloused from some physical ability beyond the sporty swing of a stick. And, while Beckett wished he’d shoot them the once-over, she was glad he had no eyes for Natalie and her bikini bounding up the steps as if red carpet, rather than brick, were spread before her feet. But why would he care? The girls were members, and his game was non-members, those people who wandered along the beach and thought this place was a public kiosk, a bathroom stop, an old-money establishment they could crash despite the commandment hammered into the sand: “Members Only.” If they disregarded this warning and tiptoed up the steps, he would descend from his crow’s nest and walk over to the offending crew and tell them, Beckett guessed, Sorry, guys, this is a private club. She’d seen this performance maybe a dozen times. He was never snooty or aloof; he understood full bladders and parched lips, the curious and the bold. Any embarrassment was dissolved by a shrug or a smirk toward the exclusive world behind him, his mink-brown eyes suggesting the potential for a future revolution.
Beckett didn’t know his name.
But he looked like a Tom.
Halfway to the bar and in the middle of the main terrace, Beckett heard her name and turned and saw Mom, waving wildly, as if she were a person in the studio audience, Beckett the panning camera. “Beckett, hon!” Her mother’s voice was devoid of volume control, her laugh a lighthouse proudly proclaiming its rocky reach. She was sitting with Beckett’s father and the Lyntons, the four of them tucked around cheeseburgers and Cobb salads and gray-green, mint-filled drinks known for their lethal quality. Lunch was the only reason Dad ever came here, especially on weekends, when lunch seemed so freakishly up in the air. “What should we do for lunch?” was a question he started asking right after breakfast. Beckett was glad for an excuse to escape the girls.
“Hey, toots,” Dad said.
Mom tilted her head like a dog with an uncanny sense for hearing foolish things. “Toots,” she said. “Who are you—Frank Sinatra?”
“What’s so bad about toots?”
“Since when have you called her, called anybody, toots?”
“I don’t know,” he said. “It just came out.”
“Toots?”
“Yeah.”
“I didn’t realize we were suddenly at the Copa.”
“O.K., drop it.”
“What’s next, a fedora, a rendition of ‘My Way’?”
“Oh, fuck off.”
“Don’t you mean ‘fuck off, toots’?”
Beckett stood there, her arms shackled around her waist, like a picture of Houdini before he was dumped into cold deep water. Her parents often had this kind of exchange in public. It was a trick of their marriage that baffled Beckett. Day after day, they sawed each other in half, yet they always managed to emerge whole at the end of the evening, nineteen years of semi-miraculous ta-dah. What was the illusion, Beckett wondered, the love or the hate?
“Sit down,” Mom said. “Join us.”
“Have you eaten?” Dad asked.
“Yes.” Beckett grabbed one of his fries.
“You jerk,” he teased. 
The Lyntons, from [REDACTED], smiled. They always rented the same small cottage for a week in August, though Mrs. Lynton was constantly bringing up the huge beachfront house she’d lived in growing up here, a house long ago sold but never forgotten, like the potato fields that were now sprouting mansions, fields where her father had shot geese, if you could imagine—which everybody could, because everybody had been weekending here forever. Oh, but the traffic now. The tacky crowds. And, by the way, this club was a hurricane away from being washed into the sea. It seemed that Mrs. Lynton returned year after year to bemoan change and reconfirm ruin. Alas, good riddance. She asked Beckett if she was having a nice summer.
“I suppose,” Beckett said.
“Beckett’s bored,” Mom told the table.
“I’m not that bored.”
“Yes, you are. You’re bored. She’s bored.”
“Summer’s too long in a place like this,” Mrs. Lynton decreed.
“Next year she’ll do a trip somewhere, maybe Europe.”
“Live with a family in [REDACTED]—it’s the best thing that you can do for your French.”
“Beckett’s more of a Latin scholar,” Mom said.
Mr. Lynton looked up from his burger. “Amo, amas, amat,” he recited with schoolboy pride.
“How do you say, ‘Wipe your chin’?” Mrs. Lynton scolded.
“It’s a terribly juicy cheeseburger.”
Mrs. Lynton passed him a napkin. She was one of the many wives who treated their husbands like sons, and whose husbands, in return, treated them like mothers. “Do you know where you should go?” she said, turning away from her sloppy dependent and giving Beckett the full privilege of her feminine attention. “[REDACTED]. In five years, [REDACTED] will be totally spoiled. It almost already is. Go to [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] before they’re wrecked.”
“[REDACTED] sounds cool,” Beckett said.
“Or 496e646961. Yes, 496e646961. Oh, Goa.”
“She’s fourteen,” Dad reminded everyone. “How about tennis camp or that place in [REDACTED], you know, for girls?”
“That’s so your era,” Mom said.
“My era?”
“[REDACTED] is amazing,” Mr. Lynton said.
Mrs. Lynton rolled her eyes. “Please, you hated [REDACTED].”
“Only while I was there. The second I was on the plane coming home I loved it.”
Beckett ate the last of her father’s fries, almost to protect him against his poor diet. In general, she enjoyed being with her parents, who, unlike other parents, treated their children as co-conspirators.
“World’s too screwed up for travel,” Dad said, tossing his napkin into the fray of empty plates. This was the first of many unspoken indications that he was ready to go home, please, like now.
“Oh, Jesus, is that Peggy Lord?” Mrs. Lynton asked.
“Yes, if you can believe it,” Mom said.
“She looks awful.”
“She is awful.”
“What did she do to herself?”
“A major overhaul.”
“She used to be so pretty.”
“She was never that pretty.”
Beckett glanced over at Mrs. Lord, mother of Pam and Jake, part of the boarding-school crew, who never danced at the dances, and who, it was rumored, smoked a lot of pot in their pool house. Beckett thought Mrs. Lord was attractive for her age, and stylish, too. She had semi-famous friends. “Just look at her,” Beckett’s mother said as Mrs. Lord searched the tables for her lunch date, who must’ve been even later than the infamously late Mrs. Lord. Mom went on about the high heels at the beach, the desperate social climbing, those sunglasses like she was the Jackie O of [REDACTED]—she was on a roll—and that slutty daughter of hers, that drug-addict son, that husband who humps anything that moves. They all laughed because she was funny, Beckett’s mom, and smart, and years ago had been almost beautiful, but Beckett silently begged Mrs. Lord to escape. Run away, run away.
The girls were gone. They weren’t at the bar, or on the beach, or in the pool, or by the cabanas. Beckett checked the club’s entrance, but their bikes were still chained side by side, their mechanical relationship intact. Maybe they were lighting small fires in the dunes—pyromania the recent rage—or perhaps were wandering down toward the public beach in the hope of spying Europeans in Speedos. Beckett could look for them only for so long. Any more effort and she would feel ridiculous.
On the terrace the sight of all the shoes lined up on the steps depressed her, ever since her school trip to the Holocaust museum in [REDACTED] and that room filled with shoes, thousands and thousands of them piled high. Discarded shoes suddenly seemed the saddest thing in the world, even flip-flops and loafers, even her own scrawled-upon tennis sneakers. They were like archeological amputations, grubby evidence of deeper loss. Beckett stood there, pleased with her depressing thought, sure that nobody else had seen those shoes as anything more than a popular day at the beach. Then she felt silly. None of those feet knew such tragedy. Not on that scale. Not yet, at least. Someday they would, they all would—her father said it would be bigger and more awful than 9/11, which in retrospect would seem like just a few black spots on the lungs of [REDACTED].
“Wait,” Beckett had once asked Dad after his latest doomsday prophecy. “If you think [REDACTED] is so hopeless, why are we staying here? We could move to New Zealand. I hear New Zealand’s really cool. I’d be up for it. I’d do it in a heartbeat.”
Dad slumped in his chair. “Because this is home,” he told her.
“That’s a lame answer.”
“You’re probably right, but that’s the answer.”
“So we just stay and get slaughtered?”
“That’s what we do,” he said.
Beckett scanned the beach for the three girls she no longer cared about. She wondered if they were watching her, laughing at her from some hiding place. Because just look at her, flat as a board, shortish, a bit chubby, not nearly as smart as she thinks she is, that jerk Beckett, lurking in her one-piece, too scared to live in a bikini world, and you know next summer she’ll be covered with zits, and, my God, that mother of hers, with that laugh, toxic on toxic. You could almost feel sorry for a girl like Beckett if she weren’t such a miserable bitch.
How about some ice cream? Beckett asked herself.
At least it was something to do.
She pictured herself with a cone in hand, ice cream dripping down her fat fingers. A teen-age girl eating ice cream all alone, what a pitiful sight. She would have to mock her own shadow. So just go home and read “Middlemarch.” September promised a summer-reading test. But Dorothea Brooke never had to contemplate suicide bombers or rogue nukes or, for that matter, thongs or Brazilians on recently earned hair. Nowhere in “Middlemarch” was there a chapter on blow jobs, which, in this living [REDACTED] novel, was the giddy subject of many a clueless conversation. “Middlemarch” was a breeze compared with the whys of what boys want in their sweaty little man dreams.
Beckett spotted her younger brother, Harry, sprinting up from the beach. His enthusiasm towed along four other boys, who would have followed his lead anywhere. She wanted to hate her brother, but she couldn’t. Harry was undeniably fun and uncomplicated without being uninteresting. In fact, Beckett kind of loved him. Of course he’d got the tan gene and the straight-hair gene and the lean gene, genes that were long dormant in their parents, though pictures proved that they had once been quite the pair. Beckett had inherited their middle-aged DNA: Dad’s slouch, Mom’s frizz, their shared weight problem.
“Hey,” Harry said.
“Hey.”
And that was the extent of the exchange. Harry hurried along for an appointment with the diving board and the cannonballs that would invariably get him and his toadies tossed from the pool. The boy was an eleven-year-old adventurist, his knees, his elbows, his chin and forehead a series of scars, his left front tooth chipped, his arm already broken twice. He’ll probably die in an accident, Beckett thought, in college, a stupid stunt gone wrong—watch this—and Mom and Dad will be devastated, a great big veil settling over all our lives, draping the incompatible space between the past and the future. It was almost beautiful in a way, because Beckett honestly believed that death was like poetry and life was like prose. But while she wanted, more than anything, a reason for her rotten feelings she didn’t want Harry sacrificed for it.
Two young women approached the club from the beach. No way were they members; they were too exotic, too pleased with their sexy selves, a sort of Penthouseteacher’s pet. They probably talked about “the Hamptons,” whereas Beckett and everybody else around here called it “the country.” Beckett guessed they were model types who never modelled, part of that mysterious [REDACTED] corps who jumped velvet ropes for a living. They had no need for “Middlemarch.” They had blow jobs down cold. Up the steps they came, as if this were one more party that eagerly awaited their arrival. The bikinis alone should have triggered a club-wide alarm—my God, not even a wrap or a sarong, just some string holding up a satiny V for vagina.
Beckett waited for the man to get up from his chair. In silent support, she crossed her arms. Go back to your share house, she muttered to herself. The unknown women gained the top step and stopped, almost posing, not five feet from Beckett, who was now hugging her overmatched chest. The man remained in his seat. Beckett tried to nudge his attention—Hello, hello—with her chin. The women went over to the foot shower and rinsed their feet. There was, well, not a hush among the nearby members but a visual aside as all eyes landed on these women, pupils humming. But no voices were raised, no human chains formed. The women continued on their way toward the snack bar, unimpeded, where they were embraced by disgusting Chad Lowry, who snuggled an arm around each waist, a malformed glob of egg salad transformed into a tasty sandwich.
“They’re guests,” Beckett heard over her shoulder. She turned and saw the man in the Adirondack chair. He was squinting at her, the lines around his eyes vaguely nautical, like complicated knots.
“What’s that?” she said, feigning indifference.
“I saw you sizing them up.”
“Me? Like I care.” 
He nodded his head as if he heard a song in the distance, a song Beckett was too young to recognize. “O.K.,” he said, returning to his book.
“You just sit here all day?” Beckett asked, instantly regretting her conversational tact. Really, she was trying to be friendly.
“Not all day,” he said. “Just during peak hours.”
“How can you tell who’s a member and who’s not a member?”
“I get to know the faces,” he said.
“But I mean, like, with guests.”
“It’s not that hard,” he said.
“You ever make a mistake?”
“Sometimes people pretend to be guests, and that can be awkward.”
“Jesus, how desperate.”
The man tilted his head.
Beckett feared she had said a snobby thing and tried to redeem herself by saying, “Like, I know this girl whose parents are trying so hard to be members here and it’s, like, just so sad because they’ll do anything, like their life will be ruined if they don’t get into this stupid club, and I’m, like, who cares. But they’re awful, the parents. My friend, she’s nice, but no way is her family getting in, at least that’s what my mother says, and she thinks my friend’s just being nice to me because I’m, like, a member and maybe that will help or something, which is so sad because what can I possibly do to help her parents.” Beckett hoped this would prove her low opinion of the club, but all she could hear were all those irritating “likes” that dropped into her speech without her control.
The man remained silent, once again nodding at whatever song he heard.
She asked, “You ever stop a member by mistake?”
“Never.”
“We’re just that easy to spot.”
“Most of you, yeah.”
He was unlike the other people who worked at the club—the local high-school girls who manned the snack bar, or the locker boys who handed out towels, or the Irish ladies who worked in the cafeteria, where shirt and shoes were required, or the bartenders who were costumed like lieutenants in some alcohol troop. Beckett assumed that these people could barely restrain their embarrassment as they slung trays or stabbed umbrellas into the sand or valet-parked cars, their eyes measuring hatred, their smiles sharpened, summer after summer, on the awful people they served. Yet still they served—served and served and served, knowing that in these parts that word had no meaning unless it was attached to a tennis racquet. But this man, the man on the terrace, he could’ve been a member himself. And for the longest time Beckett had assumed that he was a member, a lonely, heartbroken member who liked to read by the ocean, who sat in the same spot day after day and mourned some secret loss. “Who is that guy?” Beckett had asked her mother earlier in the summer. Her fantasies of a [REDACTED] Heathcliff were dashed when her mother answered, “He’s our homeland security.”
“You looking for your friends?” the man asked.
“No. Have you seen them?”
“No.”
Beckett leaned against the terrace’s brick balustrade. This summer she had her best tan ever, and she fiddled with her rope bracelet hoping that the pale skin underneath would confirm this to anyone who noticed. Her parents were still here, her father forced into another drink, which would insure an afternoon nap and destroy any chance of their continuing their summer-long Saturday croquet death match. “So you just sit here and wait for people to try to sneak in?” she asked.
“That’s pretty much the job description.”
“Kind of boring.”
“You’re too young to know what boring is.”
Beckett took offense. “I’m not that young.”
“True.”
“But I am bored,” she said, “so fucking bored,” trying on the word for effect, the effect nil. “Anyway, next summer I won’t be here, that’s for sure. I’m thinking of going to [REDACTED].”
“[REDACTED]?”
“Yeah, before it gets ruined.”
The lunch hour was now in full swing, more and more people crowding around the terrace. Beckett recognized them all: the children, the parents, the grandparents. It was the riddle of the [REDACTED] that nobody needed to answer. The kingdom was theirs. Beckett asked the man, “If you could go anywhere in the world, where would it be?”
“Probably twenty yards down the beach.”
“No.”
“Yeah.”
“Really?”
“Uh-huh.”
“If that were my dream I’d kill myself.”
The man laughed, an awkward laugh despite his easy smile, as if a part of his throat were broken. “Wait thirty years,” he said.
“How old are you?” she asked.
“Forty-two,” he said.
“So you think I’m, like, twelve. Because I’m not. I’m fourteen.”
“I was rounding down,” he said.
“I might as well be twelve,” Beckett said.
“What?”
“Nothing. So are you, like, married?”
“O.K.” He sat up to take the questions full on. “Was.”
“Do you have kids?”
He paused. “No,” he said, and Beckett was baffled that somebody who had been married and was forty-two would have no children, but she dropped the subject, the man, his nodding head, reminding her of those polar bears in the Central Park Zoo, the way they paced the square footage of their lives, figuring the distance in defeated affirmation.
“So you’ve been doing this forever, right, sitting here and busting people trying to sneak in—that’s what my mother said.”
“It’s been a while.”
“So you’ve seen me since I was a little kid.”
“Yep.”
“Because I didn’t notice you until this summer. All of a sudden, I’m, like, who’s the guy always sitting here, like always sitting here, kind of creepy, I thought, until I found out it was your job.”
“You’re not meant to notice me,” the man said.
“Should I even be talking to you?”
“I just meant I’m supposed to blend in.”
“Like a spy?” Beckett said.
“Not really.”
“Because sometimes I feel like a spy, like a double agent, and one day I’m going to give up the goods on all these people here.”
“Then I’d have to kill you,” the man said.
Beckett froze.
“It’s a joke,” he said, “and not a terribly good one.”
“Oh.” Silence settled between them, and Beckett wondered if she should be talking to him, if it was weird, if people were looking at her and thinking, Why is Beckett Parsons talking to the man who stops people from sneaking into the club? and she decided she should leave, say goodbye, nice talking to you, but instead she said, “You wanna hear something in Latin that I think is beautiful?”
“Latin? Why not.”
“It’s from this unknown poet named Tibullus. O.K.” Beckett looked up as if the words were trailing one of those single-engine planes that dragged advertisements up and down the beach, like tractors plowing the sky. “ ‘Te spectum, suprema mihi cum venerit hora, Et teneam moriens deficiente manu.’ It means, ‘May I gaze upon you when my last hour has come, and, dying, may I hold you with my weakening hand.’ ”
“That’s lovely,” the man said.
“It’s not my translation. I would’ve said, ‘May I be gazing.’ ”
“So you know Latin?” the man asked.
“Yeah.”
“That’s great.”
“It’s really good for your S.A.T.s, you know, the verbal.”
“I don’t know any Latin.”
“Nobody does,” Beckett said. “It’s a supremely stupid thing to be good at. It’s not even a real language anymore. It’s like being fluent in Braille, that’s what my mom says. And I’m not even that great at it. I just have a good memory, and I like puzzles. But the words themselves, you know, the Latin itself, it’s really . . .” She searched for the right word. “Really lovely to look at,” she said, “and lovely to read aloud, and then you get to the meaning, what’s underneath those words, and it’s even lovelier, because you’ve made it your own, if that makes sense. It’s like you’re reading what the gods wrote, and it’s survived all these thousands of years, only in fragments. I really want to go to 4974616c79. But it’s not like I could describe the ocean right now using Latin, or the clouds, or like how I feel, or whatever. I know French, too.”
“I’m impressed,” the man said. “When I was your age I wasn’t thinking about Latin.”
“Not like I think about Latin all the time.”
“No, it’s cool,” the man said.
Beckett shrugged. “You know, my hair used to be really blond, not so long ago, like almost white, like it would get green from chlorine, that white. Now look at it. It’s almost brown, like I left all that blond hair out in the rain and it rusted or something.”
The man nodded as if he understood, and Beckett was glad.
“Anyway,” she said.
The man pointed toward the beach. “Your friends,” he said.
Beckett turned and saw Natalie and the Glowerers, Josephine and Clio, her lip-synching backup singers. “We’re going in the ocean,” Natalie shouted as if she couldn’t care less but Beckett had better come. 
The ocean was rough, a red-flag day, and Beckett was no fan of swimming in wild water. A pool, sure. She could spend hours in the pool, crossing her legs, holding her feet, releasing the air from her lungs so she slowly sank to the bottom like an aquatic yogi, Om in bubble form. But the ocean was different. The ocean was always too cold and sometimes dirty with foam or seaweed and seemed on the verge of ecological disaster. And the waves scared her—she would never admit it, but they did, the way they could suck you in and tumble you around and shock you breathless. And, of course, the sharks, a ludicrous fear, yet a fear nonetheless. But here were her friends, and she sort of missed them, and they were asking for her company, and that was nice. Beckett turned toward the man. “I gotta go,” she said.
“Nice chatting,” he said.
“Yeah.”
Beckett had started down the steps when the man said, “Hey,” and she turned around and he stared at her as if he had something to say, his eyes at full sail, but all his mouth could manage was “Never mind,” and Beckett gave him a shrug and leaped onto the beach, a childhood ritual she couldn’t quite give up, that enthusiastic if sloppy grand jeté onto warm sand.
“We’re swimming to the barrels,” Natalie informed her, all business.
“The barrels?”
“Yeah.”
“O.K.” At least a couple of times a summer, they tested themselves with a swim to the barrels. If Beckett lived the rest of her life without seeing those barrels up close, well, she would die happy, but when would she say no—when could she say no? She still spied women in their fifties and sixties going into the surf and making their yearly trek to that rope-defined edge, beyond which there was no saving.
“It’s a little rough, isn’t it?” Beckett said.
“Are you coming or not?” Josephine asked, her posture practically spitting.
“Yeah, I’ll come.”
The girls headed down toward those men-scattering waves.
“Where have you been?” Beckett asked the threesome innocently.
“You ditched us first,” Clio said.
“Around,” Natalie answered.
“Yeah,” Josephine added.
They paused at the water’s edge. Without a word, they braced themselves for entry: without a word but with a series of deep breaths and hand-flinging claps they prepared themselves, waiting for the first among them to sprint forward, into this endless movie screen, the first brave girl, who was always Natalie, running and screaming through foot-, now knee-, now hip-high surf, arms held aloft for the perfect dive that sliced into the base of a breaking wave. Josephine and Clio quickly followed, neither as graceful, more like yapping beagles that trailed the lead horse over the fence to the pasture on the other side.
Beckett, she was still on the beach.
The water would be freezing. And what about the currents? Was there a riptide, an undertow? And look at those waves sweeping across the shore like an angry arm clearing the table with a single drunken stroke. The other girls were getting far ahead, and Beckett was tempted to slink away and go back to the terrace, but she had already lost her friends once today and if she lost them again she feared they would give up on her altogether, not that she cared, but, still, who wants that, especially in early August.
Just run straight in, she told herself, but instead she marched forward like a reluctant soldier, like one of those Colonial troops who were doomed to be hit by a musket ball, in this case a volley of waves that broke against her legs and stomach, the white-foamed surf hitting her hard until she lost her balance and fell down and was swooped back by the surge, a goose-pimpled corpse. Now that she was dead, she could swim.
The first ten yards were simply survival. Beckett pushed through the swells, going low, going high, battling the waves until she was past the breaking point, where the water became calmer yet murky, instantly swarming with imaginary sharks. That was the real challenge of swimming to the barrels: the knowledge, or lack of knowledge, of what might be gliding beneath your feet. The key was constant movement, to keep those arms and legs in a frenzied graceless paddle before imagination took over. God knows how deep the water was now. Sunken ships, their masts, could’ve been a mere inch from her big toe.
Already Natalie had reached the barrels, with Clio and Josephine close behind. They clung to the ropes and smiled as Beckett struggled forward, probably smiling at slowpoke me, she guessed. Maybe it was something about her improvised breaststroke, the lack of breast in that stroke, the lack of stroke on that breast, whatever, but now they were laughing and whispering, and Beckett was certain they were hatching some plan against her, some secret attack, and she thought she knew what they were thinking—that once back on the beach they should rush her and give her an onion ring, which would involve tackling her and then rolling her in the sand, grinding it into her scalp, into the depths of her bathing suit, leaving her a gritty, deep-fried mess. Ha-ha-ha. Yeah, Beckett knew what they were up to. Theirs was a conspiracy of empty smiles.
So turn around. But she was nearly there, and it was a victory of sorts, swimming to the barrels, even if the future would prove it Pyrrhic.
“Finally,” Clio said as Beckett grabbed for the rope.
The barrels were anchored to the bottom, but sometimes Beckett imagined them as giant bobbers, with fishing lines that drifted down below, bloody pieces of meat on their hooks. She used to fish with her father; they’d catch snapper blues at the inlet. Keep an eye on the bobber, he’d tell her, and at the slightest tug strike. Beckett treaded water, helplessly afloat, and studied the barrels for some sign of play. The occasional upwelling of warm water hit her like hot breath.
“Did someone just pee?” Beckett tried to joke.
“Disgusting,” Natalie said.
At one time, not long ago, they would have found this funny.
A plane flew overhead, dragging a banner for Grey Goose vodka.
From this vantage, the club was like a Mediterranean dream, the stucco walls, the red tiled roof an exotic mirage from the Roaring Twenties, when this spit of [REDACTED] was refashioned into the [REDACTED] of [REDACTED]. The crowd on the terrace, on the beach, merged into a distinct mass of indistinct people. Between thumb and index finger, it seemed a two-inch existence. Beckett held tightly to the rope.
“So it looks like you made a new friend,” Natalie said.
“He’s nice,” Beckett said. She expected this line of questioning.
“I hear he’s, like, retarded,” Josephine said.
“That’s, like, ridiculous.”
“You going to blow-job him?” Clio asked.
Beckett gave Clio a deadly stare, her eyes like quotes around “You fucking idiot.”
“A nice big blow job,” Clio continued.
“Clio, you probably think a blow job involves balloons,” Beckett said.
“No, I don’t.”
“Whatever.”
“Bitch,” Clio muttered.
Enough was enough. “Has cunt not made its way out to Westchester County? Because I’d rather be a bitch in the city than a clueless cunt in the suburbs.” Beckett was always surprised by how good she was at this, at finding the right words, her voice remaining calm, as if she had rehearsed.
“Pound Ridge is not the suburbs,” Clio said.
Natalie laughed.
Beckett took advantage of this opening. “Can you imagine living in a town called Pound Ridge? Hi, I’m from Pound Ridge.”
“It’s not the suburbs, you guys. It’s more like the country.”
“It’s the suburbs, honey,” Natalie said.
Josephine now laughed.
“Suburbs are like for, like, middle-class people,” Clio stated.
The barrels all but disappeared, and Beckett struck. “Oh, my God, what a snob.”
“I mean . . .”
Natalie shook her head. “Talk about bourgeois.”
“Oh, now you’re just confusing the poor girl,” Beckett said.
Clio let go of the rope and did a backpedal drift. “Screw you guys,” she said, stunned, then she turned and started to swim back to the shore.
That’s when Beckett suggested a game of horny shark.
Natalie and Josephine instantly agreed.
For years the horny shark had roamed these waters, its victim suddenly surrounded by a school of pre-adolescent girls in a feeding frenzy, dozens of fingers biting down until the bikini top was torn free. But this was before bikinis held anything of note. It had been agreed a few summers earlier that horny shark should be retired. Since then, this great white predator had existed only as a funny memory and a vague mythic threat. But now blood was in the water.
Josephine started to hum the theme from “Jaws.”
Natalie called out to Clio, “Sharky shark, horny shark.”
Clio turned around. “Yeah, right, guys.”
“You better swim faster, Clio.”
“Swim, Clio, swim,” Beckett screamed with appropriate melodrama. “Don’t look back, just swim.”
“We agreed, you guys,” Clio shouted.
Natalie, Josephine, and Beckett let go of the ropes and began their slow, sharky pursuit.
“I’m so horny,” Beckett said.
“So, so horny,” Josephine agreed.
“It’s titty-biting time,” Natalie said.
Beckett laughed—she had forgotten how funny Natalie could be—laughed like a loon, laughed too hard, maybe, as if insanity lay ahead. The joke wasn’t that funny, certainly not deserving of this crazed imbecilic laughter, but there Beckett was, swimming and laughing and almost drowning.
The club regained its size.
Up ahead, the waves swept forward.
Clio kicked hard for the shore but she was getting tired. At some point, Beckett would dive under and torpedo her legs, opening her eyes and accepting the saltwater sting for the certainty of assault. But not yet. Not until she spotted the man on the terrace, sitting in his chair, reading his book. What was he reading, anyway? She tried to hold him in her sight for a moment, as if he might keep her foreboding steady. Did he see her? Did he even care?
Absens haeres non erit.
Slowly the girls gained on Clio. 

