
Demeter
By Maile Meloy
When they divided up the year, Demeter chose, for her own, the months when the days start getting longer. It was easier that way. It meant that she delivered her daughter to her ex-husband in the late, bright [REDACTED] summer and she could handle it then, most of the time, with a little pharmaceutical help. She couldn’t handle giving her up in the dead of winter.
Hank could have fought for sole custody, since Demeter had a reputation for erratic behavior. But granting her half the year had been a gesture on his part: generosity as a sign of power. He would not have it said that he took a child from her mother. He was always more subtle than that.
Perry, their daughter, had been unexpected, the pregnancy a buoyant gift at a time when Demeter and Hank were like drowning people, tugging each other under. But the moment Demeter saw the pink thing in the nurse’s arms, the tiny creature that had turned her inside out, she knew the baby wasn’t going to save her marriage. It was only going to break her heart. They hadn’t named her Persephone; that would have been unfair. They had named her Elizabeth, after Hank’s mother, but Hank started calling her Perry Mason early on, for her steady infant gaze that would break down any witness, and it stuck.
At thirteen, Perry had the pert features and turned-up nose of a figure skater, although she wasn’t one. She hadn’t yet found the thing she might be very good at. Hank hoped it would be science: he wanted his daughter to be straightforward and rational. Demeter hoped it would be music: she wanted Perry to be darker and more complicated. At the dinner table, when they were still living in one house, Perry had looked from one to the other of them as if they came from the moon. Her strange parents. Only she was of the earth.
Hank had bought her an oversized pink nylon duffelbag, and Perry carried it back and forth between the two houses. He’d made more money after the divorce than he ever had before, with new income from oil leases, and he owned a big house on a hill now, with a new red truck outside.
Demeter parked, and Perry leaned over in the passenger seat and kissed her quickly on the cheek, eager to avoid any drama. “Bye, Mom,” she said. “Love you.” Then she lugged the duffel toward the house, her bare legs in blue shorts taking her blithely away.
It wasn’t natural to give up your child every year. It wasn’t right. Demeter knew that Hank could say the same thing, but she had no interest in being fair to Hank, and she had carried that child inside her body. She had fed her with her own blood, and then from heavy, unfamiliar breasts. She had held Perry when she was sick and vomiting, her hair damp with fever.
She watched her daughter twist her shoulders to get the wide bag through the front door, without a look back. The dark interior of the house engulfed her. The screen door slammed shut. 

Demeter sat alone in the car. The tears shouldn’t have surprised her, but they did. They came hot and choking. Her jaw shook. Her nose ran. She knew she should leave, and not embarrass Perry or give Hank anything to comment on, but she couldn’t see to drive.
Finally Perry came back outside and leaned in through the car’s open window. “Mom,” she said.
Demeter fumbled for a tissue. “I’m sorry.”
Perry got into the car and sat looking at her hands, with their chewed cuticles. “You chose this,” she said.
Demeter wanted to say that she would have died if she had stayed with Hank, but she tried to be discreet in front of their daughter. “I know.”
“And you picked the dates.”
“I did. I’m all right, sweetie.”
“You’re not.”
“No, really I am.” She blew her nose decisively. “You can go inside.”
Trouble clouded Perry’s pretty face. “Mom.”
Demeter didn’t want to be doing this, to be taking this perfect child and putting the pain in. “I’m O.K. I just needed a minute. Don’t watch too much TV, all right?”
“I won’t.”
“And no jet skis.”
“He doesn’t have a jet ski.”
“No jet skis!” Demeter said. “They’re death machines.”
“All right.”
“O.K.”
“O.K.,” Perry said. “Bye.” She got out and waved. Those long legs carried her back into Hank’s world, where she would do Hankish things. Water ski, even if there were no jet skis. Eat red meat every night, and too much sugar. She belonged to her father now.
As Demeter drove down the hill, away from Hank’s house, she felt as if there were a cord attached to her viscera that was stretching, pulling. When she was young, she had liked to say that she would never have regrets. Her life was her life, her choices her choices, and she would stand by it all. But she did have a regret now. She wished she had never had a child.
She pulled the car over to the curb, startled by the thought. It was true. She couldn’t wish her daughter away now, but if she had a time machine she would go back and erase the conception. Then there wouldn’t be this agony, there wouldn’t be the black times. She would have found other sources of love, and she wouldn’t have this gnawing emptiness. One tiny erasure and everything would be different. Catastrophe avoided.
She pressed her hands against her sternum to stop the ache. She had always known that Perry was mostly Hank’s. That cross-examining stare came straight from him. She had his logical mind and his quiet stubbornness. But that didn’t make it less painful to give her up.
Finally she got herself home, parked beneath the big maple tree, and went inside her little house. It was dark and empty. The refrigerator hummed. She had no television—a fact that was eternally embarrassing to Perry—so she switched on the radio, to have some companionable sound. “StarDate” was on.
Hank had told her long ago that she had a voice for radio, but she had never pursued it. What she had was a campfire voice, mellow and clear at low volume. She had met Hank at a bonfire, where he played songs in her range on his guitar so they could harmonize. She was impossibly young then, with wheat-colored hair. She’d sat cross-legged on the cold ground and watched the embers burn, but she knew he was watching her, listening through the other voices for hers. When the fire died down, he’d wrapped his coat around her shoulders and she was his.
She opened the refrigerator. There was some leftover tabouli. A tub of yogurt. The non-homogenized milk that came in glass bottles from the dairy, with a thick band of cream to scoop off the top. Frozen pesto in the freezer. “I’m so tired of this food!” Perry had shouted at her once. “It’s not real food! I will not eat millet!” Demeter closed the refrigerator to make the voice go away.
Hank would be grilling steaks tonight. Married, they had tempered each other, made compromises in the way they lived their lives. Apart, they had gone to opposite extremes. Perry said that joint custody with them was like jumping back and forth between a hot tub and a snowbank.
“Which is which?” Demeter had asked.
“You know what I mean,” Perry had said. “You’re just different.”
But Hank would be the hot tub, of course. Which left Demeter the snowbank.
“Tonight the Perseid shower will be approaching its peak,” the radio voice said, confiding and urbane. “You might see shooting stars coming from the direction of the constellation Perseus. This constellation was named for the Greek hero, and is located near the constellations of his wife, Andromeda, and her mother, Cassiop—”
Demeter switched the radio off. She would go for a swim. Clear her head. She stuffed her suit and cap and goggles into a canvas bag and left the front door unlocked. She locked it when Perry was home, mostly because of Perry’s displeasure when she didn’t, but there was no point now. It was a safe enough town.
She walked toward the city pool, past the café that had bought flower arrangements from her garden after the divorce, when she hadn’t known how she was going to make money. She walked past a pawnshop where she’d taken jewelry, and the coffee shop that had to be a front for something, because it couldn’t possibly have paid the rent with coffee all these years.
A woman with a little boy sat on a low planter. The boy might have been three, in a red-and-blue striped T-shirt. They had a worn air about them, and Demeter guessed that they were staying at the homeless shelter on the next block. The sight of them together, inseparable, the mother with her skinny arms around the child, squeezed Demeter’s heart, and she wanted to tell the woman never to let him go. Instead, she looked down at the sidewalk until she was past.
Interesting clouds were forming over the mountains when she arrived at the pool. Some kind of weather coming. But she should still have time to swim. There were the bike racks. Inside the brick building, the chlorine smell. All the years of swimming lessons overlapped the present moment in her mind—Perry as a baby, a chubby toddler, a string bean of a nine-year-old on a pink bike.
Four-o’clock lap swim cost a dollar. When Demeter looked up from fumbling in her bag, she realized that she knew the dark-haired girl at the cash register. The girl was smiling, waiting for Demeter to notice. She wore a red lifeguard shirt and looked just like her father, who’d died when she was four. She had his gray eyes.
“Oh, my God, Annie,” Demeter said. “You’re so beautiful.”
Annie blushed, pink coming to her cheeks. “Thanks.”
“How’s your mom?”
“She’s great,” Annie said. She put the dollar in the till. “You know her, she’s indestructible.”
Demeter nodded, staring at the girl, doing clumsy math. She must be eighteen. Demeter felt like she was a hundred. She felt Paleozoic.
“There might be lightning coming,” Annie said. “I’d get your swim in quick.”
“Right,” Demeter said.
She went into the damp concrete locker room, feeling disoriented. Annie’s father, Duncan, had been Hank’s business partner. He’d been cheerful and competent, always ready to fix an engine or stop a fight: to make things right. Annie’s mother, Kay, was slight and strong, like a pioneer woman, tempered steel where Demeter had often felt herself to be decadent and soft.
Duncan and Kay had been the best friends of her early marriage, and Demeter had loved them both in a way that felt sustaining, like sunshine. But those were the bad old days, and so she had slept with Duncan, as a matter of course. It was just an extension of her ordinary love. He had run his fingers through her hair, lifted her light body to his hips. When she’d started to get confused about it, the confusion was easier if she was stoned. That was the bad old days, summed up. It could be a kind of haiku:
I slept with my friend.
Then I got high.
Spring of ’76.
Then, that June, Duncan and Hank had gone down with scuba gear to look for earthquake damage on a dam, and Duncan hadn’t come up.
At first, Demeter thought Hank had killed him. What had been a dalliance, a distracting sexual guilt, had become a cataclysmic horror. Hank knew, and had taken revenge. The world was dark and vicious. But she soon realized that wasn’t true. Hank knew nothing. When he’d pulled his wetsuit back on and found Duncan on the bottom of the lake, he was bewildered, grief-stricken, distraught.
Then she thought that Duncan might have killed himself, torn between two women. But she could picture him laughing at the idea, his handsome head thrown back, his gray eyes crinkled with laughter. Kill himself? Sleeping with her had been a happy thing. He had loved it. And he had loved his wife and their four-year-old daughter.
Demeter’s therapist, Martine, said it was healthy to imagine that laughter, because only a true narcissist would believe she had such power, to drive someone to suicide. Martine had said it slowly, looking over her round tortoiseshell glasses with meaning, which made Demeter wince.
So the drowning had been an accident. Every investigation and inquiry said it was. Duncan’s big heart had just stopped.
Next Demeter had blamed Hank for leaving Duncan to die alone, but not as much as he blamed himself. He paced and obsessed and rethought, and Demeter watched him. They were moving around the death like two satellites in separate orbits when they collided in the bedroom and Perry was conceived. 
As soon as she knew she was pregnant, Demeter had stopped smoking pot. She started meeting the black-coated Hutterites in their truck to buy chickens and eggs. She bought vegetables at the farmers’ market from the Hmong refugees, who coaxed green shoots from the ground so much earlier in the year than anyone else. She ordered milk from the dairy and made baked eggs and cream with Hmong chives. She didn’t worry about getting fat—she was supposed to get fat. When Perry arrived, Hank was enraptured, and Demeter realized how much he must have wanted a child before. He had never pushed her, in her stoned and childfree days, but he had craved fatherhood. She just hadn’t seen it.
She pulled her swimsuit on in the dank locker room, lost in time. The purple Lycra was a little stretched out and ratty, and she was glad Perry wasn’t here to raise her eyebrows at it, to say, “Mom, you could’ve shaved your legs, at least.” She pushed her streaky blond hair under a silicone cap and went outside.
The dark sky loomed closer, the color of a black plum, but people were still swimming. She recognized the slow, steady stroke of Ned Keller, who had to be in his nineties now. She hopped into the shallow end and pulled her goggles down over her eyes. Annie was in the lifeguard chair in a red tank suit, swinging a whistle on a lanyard.
Demeter ducked beneath the water and pushed off. It was her favorite moment of swimming, the passage from dry to wet, her skin shedding tiny bubbles of air as she kicked. It felt as if the world were washing off her. She was starting over, newborn. She had swum in high school in [REDACTED] and was proud of her stroke. It had always been balanced and consistent, even when she was not. She breathed on the left, took three strokes, breathed on the right.
At the deep end of the pool, she flip-turned and pushed off, still with some of the tingly feeling. She passed Ned Keller, his ancient arms pulling stubbornly along. He had swum in a triathlon with his son and grandson: the son biked and the grandson ran. Demeter wondered if Perry would have a daughter someday, and if they could do that.
She turned again, big air bubbles streaming over her face, and imagined what would happen if she breathed in. Had there been a moment when Duncan’s lungs filled with water, when he still knew what was happening? Had he watched himself cross out of the habitable world? She took half an experimental breath and stood up coughing, choking, her bare feet finding the concrete bottom of the pool, the desire to live too strong.
A whistle pierced the air. She pulled off her goggles, breaking the suction, and saw Annie climbing down from the lifeguard chair. Demeter had been too obvious in her flirtation with drowning. She needed to tell Annie she was fine, but she had to get a good breath first.
“Everyone out of the water!” Annie called. “Everyone out!” She was looking up at the sky, not at Demeter. The clouds were black and roiling, spilling over themselves, low and heavy. How had the storm come in so fast? A lightning bolt cracked through the bruised darkness. “Now!” Annie called.
Demeter kicked to the edge. Ned Keller was climbing out, too, and she resisted the urge to offer him a hand. She wouldn’t want people condescending to her when she was ninety. He swam every day. He could get himself out of the pool.
The lifeguards were pushing a long blanket roller on wheels out from the wall. The blankets were heavy blue insulated plastic, to keep the heat in the water at night. Rain began to splatter, and the girl pulling the first blanket ducked her pigtailed head. She wore a dry T-shirt and shorts.
“I’m already wet,” Demeter said. “I’ll take it.” She tugged the corner of the blanket, dragging it along the shallow end as Annie and a tall boy pulled slack off the roller. The pigtailed girl ran inside the office and came out in a raincoat. The tall boy shouted instructions: now they had to slide the blanket down the pool so the next one could be pulled across. Demeter understood, and tugged her end toward deeper water, clinging to the reinforced hem. The blanket wanted to sink as it moved forward, scooping up water in the middle and creating a heavy puddle. She and the boy strained to keep it at the surface.
There was another crack of white light, and then the boom of thunder. The rain came down diagonally in the gusting wind, like someone throwing buckets. But for someone in a swimsuit and cap it hardly mattered. They got the blanket into position and ran back for another.
“Thanks for helping!” Annie shouted over the wind and rain.
Demeter nodded. Her towel was lumped on the pool deck, sopping wet. The rain seemed to be getting colder. She pulled the next blanket along the gutter. 
There was another flash of lightning, and Annie looked up at the sky with an impatient, Duncan-like expression: Why are the gods foiling my plans? What is this perverse unhelpfulness? That was her father, through and through.
The last blanket was on and the rain was still coming. Demeter followed Annie into the lifeguard office, peeling the cap off her wet hair. The lap swimmers were gone. The lifeguards, two boys and two girls, towelled their heads and exclaimed about the storm.
“We have a coffeepot for hot chocolate,” Annie said. “Somewhere.”
“I’m all right,” Demeter said, although she was shivering, covered in goose bumps.
“You’re freezing,” Annie said, pulling a dry towel off a shelf.
It was thick orange terry cloth with red suns, and Demeter wrapped it around her shoulders. She had held this girl on her hip at Duncan’s funeral, out in an ancient cemetery, really just a field. They had played a tape of Annie talking to her father, the recorded voice tiny in the mountain air. Kay had explained that her daddy was going to help make the flowers grow, but what did a four-year-old understand? Annie must barely remember him now.
“Are you O.K.?” Annie asked. “Your lips are blue. You seem a little hypothermic.”
“Oh, sweetheart, your dad,” Demeter burst out, before she knew what she was saying. “We loved him so much.”
Annie looked as if she’d been slapped. Not hurt, just startled. She glanced at the other guards, who were busy drying off. No one was listening. But it was clear that Annie would have been embarrassed if they had. It had been a day for embarrassing teen-agers.
“I’m sorry,” Demeter said. “You’re right, I got too cold. I’ll go dry off.”
In the empty locker room, she sat on one of the wooden benches along the wall and made herself breathe. Duncan’s yellow dog, Blue, had circled the pine coffin in the back of the truck, whining. He couldn’t find a place to lie down. She remembered thinking that she was like the dog. She would never find happiness or rest again. But that hadn’t been true. People were more resilient than they thought.
The locker room smelled of disinfectant and wet socks. By these scarred benches, a tiny, trusting Perry had raised her arms so Demeter could pull a shirt off over her head. There was a low steel sink that sprayed a half circle of arcing warm water, and Perry and the other little girls had loved to sit in it until a lifeguard came in to chase them out. Demeter always let them climb back in again. She had never liked rules. Maybe that was part of the problem. Maybe if she hadn’t chafed against every restriction, for so many years, she wouldn’t have had to let her daughter go. But that was wishing to be someone else.
The rain rattled down on the skylights. Demeter would have kept Perry all the time if she could have wrested custody from Hank. She would have guarded her from his world of violent movies and roaring engines. But then Perry wouldn’t have her father. She would be like Annie, bereft of half her inheritance. And she would resent Demeter for doing it, of course. So they were stuck with this harrowing division of the year.
Demeter changed into her dry clothes, wrapped the orange towel around her hair, and went back into the office. She was warmer now, although the air was growing colder. Annie introduced her to the others as “Mrs. Hayes.”
“Please, no, that’s my mother,” she said. “Call me Demeter.”
“Like the harvest goddess!” the taller boy said, showing off. He had a cockscomb of thick brown hair.
“Exactly,” she said.
The shorter boy was ridiculously good-looking: blond, with cornflower-blue eyes. She wondered if they could tell that she’d been crying, with her red nose and swollen eyes, and guessed that she just looked like someone’s mother, with goggle rings denting her face.
“Look!” the pigtailed girl said. “It’s snowing!”
And it was. They all moved to the door. Thick white flakes fell from the sky.
“It’s thundersnow!” the tall boy said.
“You’re frickin’ kidding me!” the other boy said. “It’s August!”
The sky was lighter than it had been when it was raining, and they all stood and watched the world outside turn white. The snow fell surprisingly fast. It had snowed like this in July once, before Annie was born, when Demeter and Hank were hiking in Yellowstone with Duncan and Kay, the white drifts melting around the smoking sulfur pots.
“It’s good we got the blankets on,” Annie said.
“It’s so weird!” the blond boy said.
Silence fell, the snow muffling all sound. They watched, transfixed. And finally the snow stopped, and the evening sun burned through the clouds. The white mantle on the blankets glowed.
The tall boy who knew his mythology and his meteorology went outside and made a snowball. He lofted it experimentally into the air, and it landed in the middle of the covered pool and stayed there, white on white.
“Race you across the blankets!” the blond boy shouted. He ran out onto the deck and then kept running across the blanket on the shallow end, legs pumping, until he was sucked down, halfway across the pool. “Halfway!” he cried, grinning. “Beat that!” He rolled toward the side, out of the sinkhole he’d made.
The little pigtailed girl ran out onto the next blanket, snow flying beneath her feet, until she was sucked down, too.
“Not even close!” the blond boy said.
“Sorry,” Annie said, looking at Demeter with Duncan’s amused gray eyes. “They’re kind of immature.”
“You try it, Mrs. Hayes!” the tall boy said. “Goddesses walk on water, right?”
“Real ones do,” Demeter said.
“It’s actually kind of fun,” Annie said. “It helps if you keep your knees up high.”
“And it helps if you’re sixteen,” Demeter said. But she knew she could do it. She could feel the way you needed to high-step across.
“Just try it!” the pigtailed girl said, hauling herself out of the pool.
Demeter looked at their sweet faces, shining from the effort and the rain, and she unwrapped the heavy orange towel from her hair. They cheered. “Do I get a handicap for being ancient?” she asked.
“You’re not that old,” the pigtailed girl said, shaking the water off in a little dance. “You should see my mom—she couldn’t do it in a million years.”
“Would Kay do it?” Demeter asked Annie.
Annie rolled her eyes. “No. Too sensible.”
Demeter’s next thought, which she didn’t need to say out loud, was that Duncan would have done it in an instant. “This is crazy,” she said. But it wasn’t really crazy—that was the important thing. It wasn’t like wishing you’d never had your own child.
The first blanket had floated up and straightened itself out. Demeter backed up to get a running start across the pool deck, then ran, knees high, out onto the blue expanse. For a few steps she was magically on the surface. She was sixteen and unfettered, untouched by grief. Nothing had consequence. Then the insulated plastic sucked at her heels. She took two more fighting steps as she sank into the warm water. She was laughing, tangled up and struggling to the side. There must be a stern warning printed on the blankets about not doing exactly this.
The kids were shouting and clapping. “That was amazing!” the pigtailed girl said.
Demeter looked. She’d got halfway across. It was amazing. She climbed out of the pool in her dripping clothes and wished Perry were here, to have seen that. But Perry would be mortified at the sight of her mother making a fool of herself, running and laughing with these kids. Not being a mom. So she was glad, again, that Perry wasn’t here—and she wasn’t glad. Six months to go, the long darkening fall. And already the sun was lower in the sky. Something between a laugh and a sob caught her by surprise, behind her rib cage, and she stifled it by crying, “Annie’s turn!”
Annie backed up through the open office door to get a better running start, with Duncan’s fierce, competitive look on her face. The light through the sodden air was molten gold. The kids were giddy with anticipation, with incipience. If only it were possible to freeze this moment, this perfect light, and stay here, and not tumble forward. But already the moment was gone. Annie began to run. 

