
Transatlantic
By Colum McCann
The Vickers Vimy. A modified bomber. All wood and linen and wire. She’s wide and lumbering, but Jack Alcock still thinks her a nippy little thing. He pats her each time he climbs on board and slides into the cockpit beside Teddy Brown. One smooth motion of his body. Hand on the throttle, feet on the rudder bar, he can already feel himself aloft.
What he likes most of all is rising up over the clouds and then flying in sunlight. He can lean out over the edge and see the shadow play on the whiteness below, expanding and contracting on the surface of the clouds.
Brown, the navigator, is more reserved—it embarrasses him to make such a fuss. He sits forward in the cockpit, alert to whatever clues the machine might give. He knows how to intuit the shape of the wind, but he puts his faith in what he can actually touch: the compasses, the charts, the spirit level at his feet.
It is that time of the century when the idea of a gentleman has almost become myth. The Great War has concussed the world. The unbearable news of sixteen million deaths has rolled off the huge metal newspaper drums. Europe is a crucible of bones.
During the war, Alcock piloted air-service fighters. Small bombs fell away from the undercarriage of his plane. A sudden lightness to the machine. A kick upward into the night. He leaned out from his open cockpit and watched the mushroom of smoke rise below. His plane levelled out and turned toward home. He flew in the dark, open to the stars, until an airfield appeared below, its razor wire illuminated, like the altar of a strange church.
Brown flew reconnaissance. He had a knack for the mathematics of flight. He could turn any sky into a series of numbers. Even on the ground he’d continue calculating, trying to figure out new ways to guide his machine home.
Both men eventually found out what it meant to be shot down.
The Turks caught Alcock on a long-range bombing raid over Suvla Bay, piercing his plane with machine-gun fire, knocking off his port propeller. He and his two crewmen ditched at sea, swam to shore. They were marched naked to a camp, where the Turks had set up rows of little wooden cages for prisoners of war. There was a Welshman beside him who had a map of all the constellations, so Alcock practiced his navigation skills through the nailheaded Turkish night: one glance at the sky and he could tell exactly what time it was. Yet what he wanted more than anything was to tinker with an engine. When he was moved to a detention camp in Kedos he swapped his Red Cross chocolate for a dynamo, traded his shampoo for tractor parts, and built a row of makeshift fans out of scrap wire, bamboo, bolts, batteries.
Brown, too, became a prisoner of war, forced to land in [REDACTED] while out on photographic reconnaissance. A bullet shattered his leg. Another ruptured the fuel tank. On the way down, he threw out his camera, tore up his charts, scattered the pieces. He and his pilot slid their B.E. 2C into a muddy wheat field, cut the engine, held their hands up. The enemy came running out of the forest to drag them from the wreck. Brown could smell petrol leaking from the tanks. One of the Krauts had a lit cigarette in his lips. “Excuse me!” Brown shouted, but the German kept coming forward, the cigarette flaring. “Nein, nein.” A little cloud of smoke came from the German’s mouth. It was left to Brown’s pilot to lift his arms and roar, “For fuck’s sake, stop!” 

The German paused in mid-stride, tilted his head back, swallowed the burning cigarette, ran toward the airmen again.
At the P.O.W. camp, Brown became known for his polite reserve. Excuse me. Nein, nein. As if the German soldier only had the flap-end of his shirt sticking out, or had somehow neglected to tie his shoelace properly.
Brown was shipped home before the Armistice, then lost his hat high in the air over Piccadilly Circus. The girls wore red lipstick. The hems of their dresses rose almost to their knees. He wandered along the Thames, followed the river until it crawled upward to the sky.
Alcock didn’t make it back to [REDACTED] until December. He watched men in dark suits and bowler hats pick their way amid the rubble. He joined in a game of football in an alley off the Pimlico Road, knocking a round pigskin back and forth. But he could already sense himself aloft again. He lit a cigarette, watched the smoke curl up high and away.
When they met for the first time, in the Vickers factory in Brooklands, Weybridge, in early 1919, Alcock and Brown took one look at each other and understood immediately that what they both wanted was a clean slate. The obliteration of memory. The creation of a new moment: raw, dynamic, warless. They did not want to remember the bombs that had dudded out, the crash and burn, the cellblocks they had been locked into, or the species of abyss they had seen in the dark.
Instead, they talked about the Vickers Vimy. A nippy little thing.
The meadow is on the outskirts of St. John’s, on a half-hill, with a level surface of three hundred yards, a swamp at one end, a pine forest at the other.
The Vimy arrives by ship from [REDACTED], boxed in dozens of wooden crates. Alcock and Brown hire a crew to drag the crates up from the harbor, strapped to horses and carts. They assemble the plane in the field. Days of welding, soldering, sanding, stitching.
From a distance, the plane looks as if it had borrowed its design from a species of dragonfly. It is 42.7 feet long, 15.25 feet high, with a wingspan of sixty-eight feet. It weighs thirteen thousand pounds when its eight hundred and seventy gallons of petrol and forty gallons of oil are taken into consideration. Eleven pounds per square foot. Its cloth framework has thousands of individual stitches. It has a maximum speed of a hundred and three miles an hour, not counting the wind, a cruising speed of ninety, and a landing speed of forty-five. There are two water-cooled Rolls-Royce Eagle VIII engines of three hundred and sixty horsepower and a turnover rate of a thousand and eighty revs per minute, with twelve cylinders in two banks of six, each engine driving a four-bladed wooden propeller.
The bomb bays have been replaced by extra petrol tanks. That’s what pleases Brown the most. They are using the bomber in a brand-new way: taking the war out of the plane, stripping the thing of its penchant for carnage.
To level out the meadow, they crimp blasting caps to fuses, shatter boulders with dynamite, tear down walls and fences, remove hillocks. It is almost summertime, but there is still a chill in the air. Flocks of birds move, acrobatic, across the sky.
After fourteen days, the field is ready. To most onlookers, it is simply another patch of land, but to the two men it’s an intricate aerodrome. They pace the length of the grass runway, looking for clues in the weather.
Crowds of rubberneckers flock to see the Vimy. Some have never ridden in a motor car, let alone seen a plane. They run their hands along the struts, tap the steel, ping the taut linen of the wings with their umbrellas. Kids crayon their names on the underside of the fuselage.
Alcock mugs for the camera, shades his eyes with his hand like an ancient explorer.
“Tallyho,” he calls, before jumping the nine feet to the wet grass below.
The newspapers say that anything is possible now. The world is shrinking. Distances exist to be bridged. The League of Nations is being formed in [REDACTED]. The 556e6974656420537461746573n W. E. B. Du Bois has convened the Pan-African Congress, with delegates from fifteen countries. Jazz records can be found in 4974616c79. Radio enthusiasts use vacuum tubes to transmit signals hundreds of miles. Some day soon it may be possible to read the daily edition of the San Francisco Examiner in Edinburgh or [REDACTED] or [REDACTED].
The word “sportsman” is alive on the editorial pages. At least four other teams want to fly nonstop across the ocean. Some, like Hawker and Grieve, have already crashed into the water. Others, like Brackley and Kerr, are positioned in airfields along the coast, waiting for the weather to turn.
Lord Northcliffe, of the Daily Mail, in [REDACTED], has offered ten thousand pounds to the first men to land on one side of the Atlantic or the other. The flight has to be completed in seventy-two hours. There are rumors of a rich Texan who wants to try, and a Hungarian prince, and, worst of all, a German pilot from the Luftstreitkräfte who specialized in long-range bombing during the war. The features editor of the Daily Mail is said to have developed an ulcer thinking about a possible German victory.
“A Kraut! A bloody Kraut! God deliver me!”
Down at the stone, on Fleet Street, where the hot type is laid, he paces back and forth, working the prospective headlines over and over. On the inside of his jacket, his wife has stitched a Union Jack, which he rubs like a prayer cloth.
“Come on, boys,” he mutters. “Hup two. On home now, back to Blighty.”
Every morning the two airmen wake in the Cochrane Hotel, have their breakfast of porridge, eggs, bacon, toast. They drive through the steep streets, out the Forest Road, toward a field of grass sleeved with ice. The wind blows bitter blasts off the sea. They rig wires in their flight suits so they can run warmth from a battery, and they stitch extra fur on the inside flaps of their helmets, their gloves, their boots.
At the far end of the field, they make sure that they are carefully shaved. They have set up a steel washbasin under a canvas tent with a little gas burner to heat the water. A metal hubcap is used as a mirror. They have even put razor blades in their flight kits for when they land: they want to make sure that they will be fresh, decently shaved, presentable members of empire.
Alcock is twenty-six years old, from Manchester. He is lean, handsome, daring, with a head of ginger hair. A single man, he says he loves women but prefers engines. Nothing pleases him more than to pull apart the guts of a Rolls-Royce, then put her back together.
Brown already seems old at thirty-two. His bum leg forces him to carry a walking stick. He was born in [REDACTED] but raised near Manchester. His parents were 556e6974656420537461746573n and he has a slight Yankee accent, which he cultivates as best he can. He thinks of himself as a man of the mid-Atlantic. He reads the antiwar poetry of Aristophanes and confesses, in letters to his pretty fiancée, in [REDACTED], to the rather corny desire to live aloft, constantly in flight.
In public Brown is quiet, polite, even taciturn. At press briefings, it’s Alcock who takes the helm. Brown navigates the silence by fiddling with his tie clip. He keeps a brandy bottle in his inside pocket. Occasionally he turns away, opens the flap of his tunic, takes a nip.
Alcock drinks, too, but loudly, openly, happily. He leans up against the bar in the Cochrane Hotel singing “Rule Britannia” in a voice so out of tune that it’s loaded with whimsy.
The locals—fishermen mostly, a few lumberjacks—bang on the wooden tables and sing their own songs, about loved ones lost at sea.
The singing goes on late into the night, long after Alcock and Brown have gone to bed. Even from the fourth floor they can hear the sad rhythms breaking into waves of laughter and then, later still, the “Maple Leaf Rag” hammered out on a piano.
“Oh go ’way man
I can hypnotize dis nation
I can shake the earth’s foundation
with the Maple Leaf Rag.”
Alcock and Brown rise at sunup, then wait. Turn their faces to the weather. Walk the field. Play gin rummy. Wait some more. They need a warm day, clear skies, a full moon, a benevolent wind. They figure they can do it in less than twenty hours. Failure doesn’t interest them, but in secret Brown writes out a will, leaving everything he owns to his betrothed, Kathleen. He keeps the envelope in the inside pocket of his tunic.
Alcock doesn’t bother with a will. He recalls the terrors of the war. “There’s puff all else they can throw at me now,” he says. “Except of course some more ruddy rain.”
One glance down takes in a line of chimneys and fences and spires, the wind combing back tufts of grass into silvery waves, rivers vaulting the ditches, two white horses running wild in a field, the long scarves of tarmacadam fading off into dirt roads—forest, scrub field, cowsheds, tanneries, shipyards, fishing shacks, cod factories. We’re floating on a sea of adrenaline, and, look! Teddy, down there, a scull on a stream, a blanket on the sand, and a girl with a pail and a shovel, and a woman rolling the hem of her skirt, and over there, see, that young chap, in the red jersey, running his donkey along the shore, sand spraying, go ahead, give it one more turn, thrill the lad with a bit of shadow—On the evening of June 12th they take another practice run, this one at night. They climb to eleven thousand feet for Brown to test out his Sumner charts. The cockpit is open to the sky. In the fierce cold the men hunker behind the windshield. The tip ends of their hair freeze.
Alcock tries to feel the plane, her weight, her dip, her center of gravity, while Brown works on his mathematics. Below, the reporters wait for them to return. The field has been lined with candles in brown paper bags, to make a proper runway. When the Vimy lands, the candles blow over and burn briefly in the grass. Local boys run with buckets to douse the flames.
The airmen get out of the plane to scattered applause. Their favorite of the reporters is there—a fifty-year-old 556e6974656420537461746573n woman, Elizabeth Ehrlich. She never asks a single question, but stands around in a corseted skirt, a knit hat, and gloves, scribbling in her notebook. Elizabeth is tall and unfashionably large. Her ankles are terribly swollen. She moves with a hefty gait across the muddy airfield. Her seventeen-year-old daughter, Lottie, has accompanied her on the trip. The girl is also tall, but thin, sprightly, curious. She is quick to laugh and whisper in her mother’s ear. An odd team. The mother stays silent; the daughter asks the questions. It infuriates the reporters, a young girl in their territory, but her questions are sharp, incisive, almost rude. What sort of wind pressure can the wing fabric withstand? What is it like to have the sea disappear beneath you? Are you ready for the unification of the continents, Mr. Brown? Do you have a sweetheart in [REDACTED], Mr. Alcock? Mother and daughter like to stride across the fields together at the end of the day, Lottie to play tennis, Elizabeth to the hotel room, where she sits and writes her reports.
Back in [REDACTED], Elizabeth has published several books of poetry, and her name banners the Thursday edition of the Post-Dispatch. Once a week she has a mandate to cover whatever she wants: theatre, politics, restaurant openings, the suffragettes, boiler explosions, the horrors of the war. She is known for being slightly batty and is famous for her curious tangents. Once, in the middle of an article on a local trade union, she delivered a two-hundred-word recipe for pound cake. Another time, in an analysis of a speech by Freud, she strayed off into the subtle art of cutting and preserving ice.
Alcock and Brown like the odd edge that the mother and daughter give to the crowd of men. Besides, Brown has seen Elizabeth’s reports for the [REDACTED] paper and they are among the best he has read: Today the sky was truant over Signal Hill. Hammer blows ring across the airfield like so many bells. Each night the sun goes down, looking more and more like the moon.
They are due to leave on Friday the 13th. It’s an airman’s way of cheating death: pick a day of doom, then defy it.
The compasses are swung, the transverse tables calculated, the wireless primed, the shock absorbers wrapped around the axles, the ribs shellacked, the dope dried, the radiator water purified. All the rivets, the split pins, and the stitches are checked. The pump control handles. The magnetos. The batteries to warm their electric suits. The shoes are polished and their flight suits are brushed. The Ferrostat flasks of hot tea and Oxo are prepared. The carefully cut sandwiches. Horlicks Malted Milk. Bars of Fry’s chocolate. Four sticks of licorice each. A bottle of brandy for emergencies. They run sprigs of white heather on the inside of their fur-lined helmets for good luck, and tie two stuffed animals—black cats, both—to a strut behind the cockpit.
Then the clouds curtsy in, the rain kneels upon the land, and the weather knocks them back a whole day and a half.
“Oh go ’way man
You just hold your breath a minit
For there’s not a stunt that’s in it
With the Maple Leaf Rag—”
A strong wind attends takeoff. Arriving from the west in uneven gusts. The fog has lifted and the long-range weather reports are good. No clouds. The initial wind velocity is worrying, but will probably calm to about twenty knots. There will, later, be a good moon. They climb aboard to scattered cheers, secure their safety belts, check the instruments yet again. A quick salute from the starter. Contact! The swing of the starting handle. Alcock opens the throttle and brings both engines to full power. He signals for the wooden chocks to be pulled clear from the wheels. The mechanic leans down, ducks under the wings, armpits the chocks, steps back, throws them away. He raises both arms in the air. A cough of smoke from the engines. The propellers whirl. The Vickers Vimy is pointed into the gale. A slight angle to the wind. Uphill. Go now, go. The incredible engine roar. The waft of warming oil. Speed and lift. The trees loom in the distance. A drainage ditch challenges on the far side. They say nothing. No “Great Scott.” No “Chin up, old sport.” No “Blimey.” They inch forward, lumbering into the wind. The weight of the plane rolls underneath them. She’s heavy today. So much petrol to carry. Damnation. A hundred yards, a hundred and twenty, a hundred and seventy. Moving too slow. A sort of aspic. The tightness of the cockpit. Sweat accumulating behind their knees. A cold swell of air in their stomachs. The bumpy ground below. The lethal whims of the weather. The motors strike hard. The wingtips flex. The grass beneath them bends and tears. Two hundred and fifty yards. The plane rises a little and then sighs again, jarring the soil. Good God, Alcock, lift her. A line of dark pine trees stands at the end of the airfield, looming close, close, closer still. How many men have died this way? Pull her back, Jackie boy. Skid her sideways. Abort. Now. Three hundred yards. Good Jesus. A gust of wind lifts the left wing and they tilt slightly right, then lift. We are rising, Teddy, we are rising, look! A slow grade upward, an ever so faint lift of the soul, and the plane is a few feet in the air, nosing up, the wind whistling through the struts. How tall are those trees? Brown converts the pines to possible noise in his mind. The slap of bark. The tangle of pines. Hang on, hang on. They rise a little in their seats. As if this might lighten the weight of the plane beneath them. Higher now. The sky beyond the trees is an oceanic thing. Lift it, Jackie, lift it, for God’s sake. Here, the trees. Here they come. Their scarves take first flight and then they hear the applause of branches below.
“That was a little ticklish!” Alcock roars across the noise.
They head straight into the wind. The nose goes up. The plane slows. The agonizing climb over treetops and low roofs. Careful now not to stall. Keep her rising. Higher up, they begin a slight bank. Take her easy, old chum. Bring her around. A stately turn, all beauty, all balance, its own sort of confidence. They hold the altitude. Banking it tighter now. Until the wind is behind them and the nose dips and they are truly leaving.
They wave down to the starter, the mechanics, the meteorological officers, the few other stragglers below. No Elizabeth Ehrlich from the [REDACTED] newspaper, no young Lottie: mother and daughter have already gone home for the day. Pity that, Brown thinks.
Alcock wipes the sweat off his brow, then waves to their shadow on the last of the ground and steers the plane at half-throttle out to sea. The scene below looks to him like toys in a child’s bath. A line of golden strand. Boats bobbing in the St. John’s harbor.
Alcock picks up the rudimentary telephone device, half-shouts into it, “Hey, old man.” The telephone is a series of wires wrapped around their necks to pick up speech vibration. To listen, they have earpieces tucked beneath their leather hats.
“Yes?”
“Sorry about this.”
“Sorry, what?”
“Never told you.”
“Never told me what?”
Alcock grins and glances down at the water. They are eight minutes out, at a thousand feet with a wind strength behind of thirty-five knots. They lurch over Concepçion Bay. The water below: a moving mat of gray. Patches of sunlight and glare.
“Never learned how to swim,” Alcock says.
Brown is momentarily taken aback—the thought of ditching at sea, of floating for a moment on a wooden strut, clinging to the rolling tanks. But surely Alcock swam to safety after he was shot down over Suvla Bay? All those years ago now. No, not years. Just months ago. It is odd to Brown, very odd, that not so long ago a bullet pierced his thigh and now, today, he is carrying a fragment of that bullet over the Atlantic toward a marriage, a second chance. Odd that he could be here at all, at this height, above this endless gray, the Rolls-Royce engines roaring in his ears, holding him aloft. Alcock can’t swim? Surely that’s not true. Perhaps he, too, should tell the truth. Never too late.
Brown leans down into the mouthpiece of the phone, decides against it.
They rise evenly. Side by side in the open cockpit. The air rushing frigid around their ears. Brown taps out a message to the shore on the transmitter key: All well and started.
Twenty minutes into the flight, Alcock reaches under his hat and rips his cumbersome earpieces out, throws them down into the blueness.
Too bloody sore, he mimics. 
Brown gives a simple thumbs-up. A pity that, he thinks. They will have no other means of communication now—just scribbled notes and gestures—but they have long since mapped their minds onto each other’s movements: every twitch a way of speaking, the absence of voice a presence of body.
Even behind the sloping windshield, it is freezing. In preparation, Alcock has spent three evenings in a walk-in fridge in St. John’s. One night he lay down on a pile of wrapped meat and failed to sleep. A few days later, Elizabeth Ehrlich noted in the [REDACTED] paper that he still smelled like a freshly cut side of beef.
She stands with her daughter at the third-floor window, hands on the wooden frame. They are sure at first that it is an illusion, a bird in the foreground. But then she hears the faint retort of the engines, and they know that they have missed the moment, yet there is also a strange exaltation about seeing it from a distance, the plane disappearing into the east, silver, not gray, framed by the lens of a hotel window. This is the first human victory over the war, Elizabeth thinks, the triumph of endurance over memory.
She pulls the table across the carpet, toward the window. Out there, the blue sky lies cloudless and uninterrupted. She likes the sound of the ink rising into her fountain pen, the noise of the pen’s body being screwed shut. Two men are flying nonstop across the Atlantic to arrive with a sack of mail, a small white linen bag with 197 letters, specially stamped. If they make it, it will be the first aerial mail to cross from the New World to the Old. A brand-new thought that: transatlantic air mail.
She tests the phrase, scratching it out on the paper, over and over.
Down below they spot small floating icebergs and they know that there will be no turning back. To Brown, it is all mathematics now. To convert the fuel use into time and distance. To set the throttle for the optimum burn of petrol. To know the angles and the edges and all the space in between.
Brown wipes the moisture from his goggles, reaches into the wooden compartment directly behind his head, grabs the sandwiches, unwraps the butcher’s wax. He passes one to Alcock, who keeps a gloved hand on the yoke. This is one of the many things that bring a smile to Alcock’s lips: how extraordinary it is to be munching on a sandwich that was put together in a St. John’s hotel more than eleven hundred feet below. The sandwich is made delicious simply by where they are, and how far they have already come. Wheat bread, fresh ham, a light mustard mixed in with the butter.
Brown reaches back for the flask of hot tea, unscrews the cap, allows a wisp of steam to emerge.
The noise rolls through their bodies. At times they make a music of it, a rhythm that conducts itself from the head to the chest to the toes, but then they are lifted from the rhythm and it becomes pure noise again. They are well aware that they could go deaf on the flight, that the roar could lodge itself inside them forever, their bodies carrying it like a human gramophone, a tune that if they make it to the other side they will hear in their ears every day.
Keeping to the prescribed course is a matter of genius and magic. Brown must guide them by any means possible. He has a sextant clipped to the dashboard in front of him. The course and distance calculator is clasped to the side of the fuselage. The drift indicator is fitted in under the seat, along with a spirit level to measure bank, and the Baker navigation machine sits on the floor of the cockpit. There are three compasses, each of which will illuminate in the dark. Sun, moon, cloud, stars. If all else fails, he will have dead reckoning.
Brown kneels on his seat and looks over the edge of the plane. He twists and turns, makes calculations using the horizon, the seascape, and the position of the sun. On a notepad he scribbles, Keep her nearer 120 than 140, and, as soon as he shoves the note across the tiny cockpit, Alcock adjusts the controls ever so slightly, trims the plane, keeps it at three-quarter throttle, keen not to push the engines too hard.
It is so much like the handling of a horse, the way the plane changes over a long journey, the shift in her weight from the burn-off of petrol, the gallop of her engines, her rein-touch at the controls.
Every half hour or so Brown notices that the Vimy has got a little heavier in the nose, and he watches Alcock exert a backward pressure on the yoke to level the plane out.
At all times Alcock’s body is in contact with the Vimy: he cannot lift his hands from the controls, not even for a second. He can already feel the pain in his shoulders and the tips of his fingers: not even a third of the way there and the soreness has lodged itself hard in his body.
When Brown was a child he used to go to the racecourse in Manchester to watch the horses. On weekdays, when the jockeys were training, he ran on the inside of the Salford track, around and around, widening his circle the older he got, pushing his circumference outward.
The summer he was seven, the Pony Express riders came from [REDACTED] and set up their Wild West show along the river. His people. From his parents’ country. Brown wanted to know who exactly he was.
Cowboys stood in the fields, swirling their lassos. There were broncos, buffalo, mules, donkeys, trick ponies, a number of wild elk. He wandered around the huge painted backdrops of prairie fires, dust storms, tumbleweeds, tornadoes. But the most amazing creatures of all were the Indians, who paraded around the tea shops of Salford in their ornate headdresses. One of them, Charging Thunder, was a member of the Blackfoot tribe. His wife, Josephine, was a sharpshooting cowgirl who wore elaborate leather coats and six-shooter holsters. Toward the end of summer, their daughter, Bessie, came down with a severe case of diphtheria, and when she got out of hospital they moved to Thomas Street in Gorton, right beside Brown’s aunt and uncle.
On Sunday afternoons, Brown cycled out to Gorton and tried to stare in their window, hoping to see the shine of the headdress coins. But Charging Thunder had had his hair cut short and his wife stood in an apron making Yorkshire pudding on the stove.
A couple of hours into the flight, Brown hears a light snap. He puts on his goggles, leans over the fuselage, watches the small propeller on the wireless generator spin uselessly for a second, then shear and break away. No radio now. No contact with anyone. Soon there will be no heating in their electric suits. And not just this. One snap might lead to another. One piece of metal fatigue and the whole plane could come apart.
Brown can close his eyes to the chessboard of the plane. He knows the gambits inside out. A thousand little moves that can be made. He likes the idea of himself as a center pawn, slow, methodical, moving forward. There is a form of attack in the calm he maintains.
An hour later, there is the chatter of what sounds to Alcock like the ack-ack of a Hotchkiss machine gun. He glances at Brown, but Brown has figured it out already. He points out toward the starboard engine, where a chunk of exhaust pipe has begun to split and tear. It glows red with heat and then white. Both men know that there is nothing that can be done. A flock of sparks flash from the engine as the piece of protective metal breaks away. It flies upward a moment, almost faster than the plane itself, and shoots away into their slipstream.
Nothing fatal, but they glance at the severed pipe together, and, as if in response, the noise of the engine doubles. They will have to live with it for the rest of the trip now, but Alcock knows how even the roar of an engine can make a pilot fall asleep, how the rhythm can lull a man into nodding off before he hits the waves. It is fierce work—he can feel the pull of the machine in his muscles. The tug through his body. The exhaustion of the mind. Avoiding cloud. Looking for a line of sight. Creating any horizon possible. The body inventing phantom turns. The inner ear balancing the angles until the only thing that can truly be trusted is the dream of getting there.
When they enter the layers between the clouds, there is no panic. They tug on their fur helmets, wrap their scarves around their mouths. Here we go. Alcock even likes this moment. The terror of a possible whiteout. The prospect of flying blind. Cloud above. Cloud below. They must negotiate the middle space.
They climb to get out, but the cloud remains. They drop. Still there. A dense wetness. Can’t just blow it away. I’ll huff and I’ll puff. Their helmets, faces, shoulders are soaked with the moisture. 
Brown sits back and waits for the weather to clear so he can guide the plane properly. He looks for a glint of sun on the wingtip, or a sudden breakout into blue, so he can find a horizon line, make a quick calculation. The aircraft swings from side to side, fishtailing in the turbulent air. At times it feels as if their seats were falling away beneath them.
With the light fading, they come upon another gap in the upper layer of clouds. The sun falling red. Down below, Brown gets a brief glimpse of the sea. Using the spirit level, he makes a quick calculation and notes it down. We’re at 140 knots approx, on general course, a bit too far south and east.
Twenty minutes later they come upon another huge bank of cloud. They rise to a gap between layers. We will not get above the clouds for sunset. We should wait for dark and stars. Can you get above at, say, 60 deg? Alcock nods, banks the plane, curls it slowly through space. The red fire spits through the fog.
They are both aware of the games the mind can play if you get caught in cloud. A man can think a plane is level in the air, even if it is laid on its side. The machine could be tilted toward doom and they might fly blithely along. If the instruments fail, they could crash into the water without warning. The important thing is to keep a lookout for any sight of moon or star or horizon line.
So much for the bloody weather forecast, Brown scribbles, and he can tell from Alcock’s response—in the gentle pullback of the engine, the slight caution in the movement—that he is worried, too, hunkered into the wet slap of weather, the beads of moisture sliding upward along the open windshield. The battery that lies in the seat between them still sends faint pulses of warmth through the wires in their suits, but the cold is shrill around them.
Brown kneels on his seat, leans over the edge to see if he can find any gap, but there is none.
No range of vision. 6,500 feet. Flying entirely by dead reckoning. We must get through the upper range of cloud, farther still. Heating fading fast, too!
The bones in their ears ring. The racket is stuck inside their skulls. The small white room of their minds. The blast of noise from one wall to the other. There are times when Brown feels that the engines are trying to burst out from behind his eyes. The rain comes first. Then the snow. A prospect of sleet. The cockpit has been designed to keep most of the weather at bay, but if they hit hail it could very well rip the cloth wings asunder. They rise out of it into softer snow. No light. No relief. They hunker down and listen to the thudding of the storm around them. After a while, the waves of snow are so heavy that it begins to drift around their feet.
When Brown shines his flashlight at the controls behind his head he realizes that a layer of snow has started to obscure the face of the petrol-overflow gauge. Not good, that. They need to be able to read the gauge. To guard against trouble with the carburetor. He has done this before, turned in the cockpit, reached dangerously high above his head, but never in weather like this. Still, it has to be done. Almost nine thousand feet above the ocean. What form of madness is this?
He glances at Alcock as they ride a small bump of turbulence. Just keep her level. No use telling him now. Can’t swim, old boy. Would hardly bring a smile to his lips.
He adjusts his gloves, pulls his earflaps tight. His handkerchief has frozen solid. He swivels in the seat. A throb in his bad leg when he moves. His right knee against the edge of the fuselage. Then his left knee, the bad one. He grabs hold of the wooden strut and pulls himself up into the blast of air. The chloroform of cold. The air pushing him backward. The sting of snow at his cheeks. His soaking clothes stuck to his neck, his back, his shoulders. A chandelier of snot from his nose. The blood backing off his body, his heart, his brain. Abandoning the five senses. Careful now. He extends himself into the thrashing wind, can’t quite reach. His flight jacket too bulky. He loosens the zip, feels the whoosh of wind at his chest, stretches backward, knocks the snow off the glass gauge with the tip of his knife.
Good God. This cold. Almost stops the heart.
He hunkers quickly back in the seat. A thumbs-up from Alcock. Brown reaches immediately for the battery wires to warm himself up. He doesn’t even need to write the note to Alcock: Heating is entirely dead. On the floor, at his feet, lie the maps. He stamps his feet, careful not to sully the charts. The tips of his fingers sting. His teeth chatter so much he thinks they might break.
Over his left shoulder, in the small wooden cupboard, are the flasks of tea and emergency brandy.
It takes an age to get the lid off the flask, but then the liquor stuns the wall of his chest.
They remain in the hotel room, the table still positioned at the window, in case the plane returns. Mother and daughter together, watching, waiting. There has been no news for twelve hours now. No radio contact. No stirring out at the makeshift aerodrome.
Lottie finds herself gripping the window frame. What might have happened to them? She puts her fingers against the cold of the pane. She doesn’t like herself at moments like this, her strange bearing, her shrill self-consciousness. She wishes she could walk outside of herself, out the window and down. Ah, but that’s it, maybe? That is the point of it all, surely? Yes. A salute to you, Mr. Brown, Mr. Alcock, wherever you might be. Eureka. That is the point of flight. To get rid of oneself. That is reason enough to fly.
Down below, in the lobby, the other reporters crowd around the telegraph machine. One by one they link back to their editors. Nothing to report. Fifteen hours gone. Either Alcock and Brown are approaching Ireland now or they are dead, a casualty of the time. The reporters begin the first paragraphs, writing in both styles, the elegiac, the celebratory—Today, a great joining of continents; Today, a great mourning of heroes—eager to be the first to finger the pulse, keener still to get ahold of the telegraph when any real news comes through.
It is close to sunrise—not far from Ireland—when the cloud envelops them completely. Almost four thousand feet above the Atlantic. Darkness still, no moon, no sea. An immense unavoidable white. They are swallowed.
Alcock taps the glass of the air-speed meter with his finger. It doesn’t budge. He adjusts the throttle and the front end of the plane lifts. Still the air-speed meter remains the same. He adjusts the throttle again. Too sudden, that. Damn it.
This cloud. The ruin of it growing tighter around them.
The engines throw out a taunt of red flame and the Vickers Vimy hangs motionless a second, grows heavy, then heels over as if she had taken a punch. The slowest sort of falling at first. A certain amount of sigh in it. Take this weary effort at flight. Let me drop.
Three thousand feet above sea level. In the cloud their balance is shot to hell. No sense of up. No down. Two thousand five hundred. Two thousand. The slap of rain and wind in their faces. The machine shudders. The compass needle jumps and the Vimy swings. Their bodies thrown back against the seats. What they need is a line of sky or sea so they can get control. Nothing but thick gray cloud. Brown jerks his head in every direction. No horizon, no center, no edge.
Good God, Jack, what’s going on?
The compass needle spinning.
Hells bells, Teddy. This is it.
A thousand feet, still falling, nine hundred, eight hundred, seven-fifty. The pressure of their shoulder blades against the seats. The whirl of blood to the head. The heaviness of the neck. Are we up? Are we down? Spinning. They might not see the water before they smash into it. Undo the belts. This is it. This is it, Teddy boy. Brown reaching downward. He tucks the log journal inside his flight jacket. Alcock catches him out of the corner of his eye. Such glorious idiocy. A pilot’s last gesture. Save all the details. The sweet release of knowing how it happened. The dial turns steadily still. Six hundred, five hundred, four. No whimpering, no moaning. The scream of cloud. Endless white. Then a different wall of color rises. It takes a split second for it to register. Almost a new light. A slap of blue. A hundred feet. Strange blue, spinning blue, are we out? We’re out, Jack, we’re out! Catch her. Catch her, for God’s sake. Christ, we’re out. Are we out? Then a line of black rises in front of them: the sea stands soldier-straight and dark. Light where the water should be. Sea where the light should rise. Ninety feet. Eighty-five. That’s the sun. Christ, it’s the sun, Teddy, the sun! There. Eighty now. The sun! Alcock gives the machine a mouthful of throttle. Over there. Open her. Open her. The engines catch. He fights the jolt. The sea turns. The plane levels. Fifty feet to spare, forty feet, thirty, no more. Alcock looks down at the Atlantic, the waves galloping white-edged beneath them. The sea spraying upward onto the windshield. Not a sound from either of the men until the plane is levelled and they begin to rise once more.
They sit, silent, rigid with terror.
Later they will joke about the spin, the fall, the rollout over the water—if your life doesn’t flash in front of your eyes, old boy, does that mean you’ve had no life at all?—but climbing upward they say nothing. There is a God, some sort of God, somewhere. Brown leans out and slaps the flank of the fuselage. Old horse. Old Blackfoot. They level out along the water, at five hundred feet, in clear air. A horizon line now. Hallelujah. Brown reaches for his drift-bearing plate, corrects his compass bearing. Almost eight o’clock Greenwich Mean Time. Brown scrambles around for his pencil. Ticklish!!!! he scrawls. He catches the sideways grin of Alcock. It is the first time in hours they have had a run without fog or layers of cloud. A dull, chewy gray out over the water. Brown scribbles down the last of the calculations. They are north of their desired course, but not so far north as to miss Ireland altogether. Brown reckons that the course is a hundred and twenty-five degrees true, but allowing for variation and wind he sets a compass course at a hundred and seventy. Ruddering south. He can feel it rising up in him, the prospect of grass, a lonesome cottage on the horizon, perhaps a row of huddled cattle. They must be careful. There are high cliffs along the coast, he knows. He has studied the wild geography of Ireland: the hills, the round towers, the expanses of limestone, the disappearing lakes. Galway Bay. There had been songs about that during the war. The road to Tipperary. The Irish were a sentimental lot. They died and drank in great numbers. A few of them for empire. Drank and died. Died. Drank.
He is screwing the lid back on the flask of tea when he feels Alcock’s hand on his shoulder. He knows before looking up that it is there.
As simple as that.
Rising out of the sea, as nonchalant as you like: wet rock, dark grass.
They cross the land at a low clip.
Down below, a sheep with a magpie sitting on its back. The sheep raises its head and begins to run when the plane swoops, and for just a moment the magpie stays in place on the sheep’s back: it is something so odd that Brown knows he will remember it forever.
The miracle of the actual.
In the distance, the mountains. The quiltwork of stone walls. Corkscrew roads. Stunted trees. An abandoned castle. A pig farm. A church. And, there, the radio towers to the south. Two-hundred-foot masts in a rectangle of lockstep, some warehouses, a stone house sitting on the edge of the Atlantic. It is Clifden, then. Clifden! The Marconi Towers. A great net of radio masts. They glance at each other. No words. Bring her down. Bring her down.
They follow their line out over the village. The houses are gray. The roofs, slate. The streets unusually quiet.
Alcock whoops. Shuts the engines. Angles in, flattens the Vimy out.
Their helmets applaud.
Their hair roars.
Their fingernails whistle.
From out of the grass a flock of long-billed snipe rises and soars.
What they miss coming down are the nearby slabs of peat that lie like cake, the sharp cuts in the dark earth, the lines of wet string that run along the banks, the triangular ricks of earth off in the distance. They miss, too, the wooden turf carts that lie weathered and rain-pocked at the side of the road. They miss the angle of the slanes, leaning up against the carts. They miss the rushes grown long on the abandoned roads.
They hit bogland, not grass. The living roots of sedge. It holds the weight of the plane a moment, but then the wheels dig, the earth tugs, the Vimy sinks, the nose dips, the tail lifts. Brown smashes his face off the front of the cockpit. Alcock pushes back against the rudder-control bar, bends it with sheer force.
The silence, a noise in their heads. Louder now than ever. Suddenly doubled somehow. And then a relief floods up through them. Is that silence? Is that really silence? The racket of it. Slipping through their skullboxes. Good God, Teddy, that’s silence. That’s what it sounds like.
They sit there a moment, surprised to be alive.
Brown touches his nose, his chin, his teeth, to see if he is intact. A few cuts, a few bruises. Nothing else.
The Vimy sticks out of the earth like some New World dolmen.
“Crikey,” Alcock says.
He switches off the magnetos. Brown reaches for the logbook, the flares, the linen bag of letters. Pulls himself up over the edge of the cockpit. Throws down his walking stick and it hits like an arrow in the bog, stuck sideways in the soil. A burn in the leg as he lands down beside it. Hallelujah for the ground: it almost surprises him that it isn’t made of air. He can smell petrol somewhere.
In the pocket of his flight suit, a small pair of binoculars. The right lens has fogged, but through the good lens he sees figures high-stepping across the bog. Soldiers. Yes, soldiers. They seem for all the world like toy things coming, dark little figurines against the complicated Irish sky. As they get closer he can make out the shape of the hats and the slide of rifles across their chests and the bounce of their bandolier belts. There’s a war going on, he knows. But there’s always some sort of war going on in Ireland. One never knows quite whom or what to trust. Don’t shoot, he thinks. After all this, don’t shoot us. Excuse me. Nein, nein. But these are his own. Tommies. One of them with a camera bobbing at his chest.
Behind them, in the distance, horses and carts. A single motorcar. A line of people, small gray figures. And look at that. A priest in white vestments. Coming closer now. Men, women, children. In their Sunday best.
Ah, [REDACTED] They must have been at [REDACTED] That is why there was nobody in the streets.
The smell of the earth, so astoundingly fresh: it strikes Brown like a thing he might eat. His ears throb. His body feels as if it were still moving through the air. He is, he thinks, the first man to fly and stand. The war out of the machine. He holds up the small linen bag of letters. On they come, soldiers, people, the light drizzle of gray.
Ireland.
A beautiful country. A bit savage on a man all the same.
Ireland. 

