Hand on the Shoulder
By Ian McEwan
My name is Serena Frome (rhymes with “plume”), and forty years ago, in my final year at [REDACTED], I was recruited by the British security service. In the early spring of 1972, when exams were only weeks away, I found a new boyfriend, a historian called Jeremy Mott. He was of a certain old-fashioned type—lanky, large-nosed, with an out-sized Adam’s apple. He was unkempt, clever in an understated way, and extremely polite. I’d noticed quite a few of his sort around. They all seemed to have descended from a single family and to have come from private schools in the North of [REDACTED] where they were issued with the same clothes. These were the last men on earth still wearing Harris-tweed jackets with leather patches on the elbows and trim on the cuffs. I learned, though not from Jeremy, that he was expected to get a first and that he had already published an article in a scholarly journal of sixteenth-century studies.
He turned out to be a tender and considerate lover, despite his unfortunate, sharply angled pubic bone, which hurt like hell the first time. He apologized for it, as one might for a mad but distant relative. By which I mean that he was not particularly embarrassed. We settled the matter by making love with a folded towel between us, a remedy, I sensed, that he had often used before. He was truly attentive and skillful, and could keep going for as long as I wanted, and beyond. But his own orgasms were elusive, despite my efforts, and I began to suspect that there was something he wanted me to be saying or doing. He wouldn’t tell me what it was. Or, rather, he insisted that there was nothing to tell. I didn’t believe him. I wanted him to have a secret and shameful desire that only I could satisfy. I wanted to make this lofty, courteous man all mine. Did he want to smack my backside, or have me smack his? Did he want to try on my underwear? This mystery aroused me when I was away from him, and made it all the harder to stop thinking about him when I was supposed to be concentrating on maths.
One afternoon in early April, after a session with the folded towel in Jeremy’s rooms, we were crossing the road by the old Corn Exchange, I in a haze of contentment and some related pain from a pulled muscle in the small of my back, and he—well, I wasn’t sure. As we walked along, I was wondering whether I should broach the subject once more. He was being pleasant, with his arm heavily around my shoulders as he told me about his essay on the Star Chamber. But I was convinced that he wasn’t properly fulfilled. I thought I heard it in the tightness of his voice, felt it in his nervous pace. In days of lovemaking, he had not been blessed with a single orgasm. It bothered me that I had not yet understood why. I wanted to help him, and I was genuinely curious. I was also troubled by the thought that I might be failing him.
Suddenly, from out of an alley, there appeared before us Jeremy’s history tutor, Tony Canning. When we were introduced, he shook my hand, and held on to it lingeringly, I thought. He was in his early fifties, and I knew only what Jeremy had told me—that he was a professor, a onetime friend of the Home Secretary, who had been to dine in his college. (The two men had fallen out one drunken evening over the policy of internment without trial in Northern Ireland.) Canning had chaired the Commission on Historical Sites and was a trustee of the British Museum. He had written a highly regarded book about the Congress of [REDACTED].
He was of the great and good, a type that was vaguely familiar to me. Men like him had come through our house from time to time to visit my father, an Anglican bishop in a small city in the east of [REDACTED]. These grand figures were annoying, of course, to anyone under twenty-five in that post-sixties period, but I rather liked them, too. They could be charming, even witty, and the whiff they trailed of cigars and brandy made the world seem orderly and rich. They thought much of themselves, but they didn’t seem dishonest, and they had, or gave the impression that they had, a strong sense of public service. They took their pleasures seriously (wine, food, fishing, bridge, etc.), and some had apparently fought an interesting war. I had memories of childhood Christmases when one or two of them would tip my sister and me a ten-shilling note. Let these men rule the world! There were others far worse.
Canning had a relatively subdued grand manner, perhaps to match his modest public roles. I noted his wavy hair, finely parted, and moist fleshy lips and a small cleft in the center of his chin, which I thought was endearing, because I could see, even in the inadequate street lighting, that he had some trouble shaving there. Ungovernable dark hairs protruded from the vertical trough of skin. He was a good-looking man.
When the introductions were over, Canning asked me some questions about myself. They were polite and innocent enough—about my degree, Newnham College, the Principal, who was a good friend of his, my home town, my father’s cathedral. Jeremy cut in with some small talk, and then Canning interrupted in turn to thank him for passing along some anti-Soviet articles I’d written for the student rag ?Quis?after discovering Solzhenitsyn.
In those days, dwelling on the indecencies of the Soviet system was routine for Western politicians and editorial writers in most newspapers. But in the context of student life and politics it was considered a little distasteful. If the C.I.A. was against Communism, there must be something to be said for it. Sections of the Labour Party still held a candle for the aging square-jawed Kremlin brutes and their grisly projects, still sang the “Internationale” at the annual conference, still dispatched students on good-will exchanges. In the Cold War years of binary thinking, it would not do to find yourself agreeing about [REDACTED] with an American President waging war in [REDACTED]. By doing so, I had earned some local notoriety. 

Canning turned to me again. “Bloody good pieces, Serena. You’ve quite a talent, my dear. Are you going into journalism?”
I hadn’t known that Jeremy had been showing my opinion pieces to a professor. ?Quis? was not intended for serious eyes. I was gratified by the praise, but too young to know how to take a compliment. I mumbled something modest, but it sounded dismissive, then I clumsily tried to correct myself and became flustered. Canning took pity on me and invited us for a cup of tea, and we accepted, or Jeremy did.
His rooms were smaller, dingier, more chaotic than I’d expected, and I was surprised to see him making a mess of the tea, only half rinsing the chunky brown-stained mugs and slopping hot water from a filthy electric kettle over papers and books. None of this fit with what I came to know of him later. He sat behind his desk, we sat in armchairs, and he continued to ask questions. It could have been a tutorial. Now that I was nibbling his Fortnum & Mason chocolate biscuits, I felt obliged to answer him more fully. Jeremy was encouraging me, nodding stupidly at everything I said. The professor asked about my parents, and what it was like growing up “in the shadow of a cathedral.” I said, wittily, I thought, that there was no shadow, because the cathedral was to the north of our house. Both men laughed, and I wondered if my joke had implied more than I understood. We moved on to nuclear weapons and the Labour Party’s calls for unilateral disarmament. I repeated a phrase I’d read somewhere—a cliché, I realized later. It would be impossible “to put the genie back in the bottle.” Nuclear weapons would have to be managed, not banned. So much for youthful idealism. Actually, I had no particular views on the subject. In another context, I could have spoken up for the anti-nuclear faction. I would have denied it, but I was trying to please, to give the right answers, to be interesting. I liked the way Tony Canning leaned forward when I spoke. I was encouraged by his little smile of approbation, which stretched but did not quite part his plump lips, and his way of saying “I see” or “Quite” whenever I paused.
Perhaps it should have been obvious to me where this was leading. In the tiny, hothouse world of undergraduate journalism, I’d announced myself as a trainee Cold Warrior. It looks obvious now. This was [REDACTED], after all. Where else did one recruit spies? But at the time the encounter had no significance for me. We had been on our way to a bookshop, and instead we were taking tea with Jeremy’s tutor. Nothing very strange in that.
Recruitment methods in those days were changing, but only a little. The Western world may have been undergoing a steady social transformation; the young may have thought they had discovered a new way of talking to one another; the old barriers were said to be crumbling from the base. But the famous “hand on the shoulder” was still applied, if less frequently, if with less pressure. In the university context, certain dons continued to look out for promising material and pass names on for interview. Certain successful candidates in the Civil Service exams were still taken aside and asked if they had ever thought of “another” department. Background remained important, and having the Bishop—as my sister and I referred to our father—in mine was no disadvantage. It has often been noted how long it took for the Burgess, Maclean, and Philby cases to dislodge the assumption that a certain class of person was more likely to be loyal to his country than the rest. Generally, both hand and shoulder belonged to men. It was unusual for a woman to be approached in that much described, time-honored way. And though it was strictly true that Tony Canning ended up recruiting me for MI5, his motives were complicated, and he had no official sanction. If the fact that I was young and attractive was important to him, it took a while for me to discover the full pathos of that. (Now that the mirror tells a different story, I can say it and get it out of the way: I really was pretty. More than that. As Jeremy once wrote in a rare effusive letter, I was “actually rather gorgeous.”)
My affair with Tony Canning lasted a few months. At first I was also seeing Jeremy, but in late June, straight after finals, he moved to Edinburgh, to work on a Ph.D. My life became less fraught, though it still troubled me that I hadn’t cracked his secret by the time he left and couldn’t give him satisfaction. Some weeks later, he wrote a tender, regretful letter to say that he had fallen in love with a violinist he’d heard playing a Bruch concerto one evening at the Usher Hall, a young German from Düsseldorf with an exquisite tone, especially in the slow movement. His name was Manfred. Of course. If I’d been a little more old-fashioned in my thinking, I would have guessed it, for there had been a time when every man’s sexual problem had only one cause.
Jeremy was sweetly concerned for my feelings, even offering to travel down and meet me to explain things. I wrote back to congratulate him, and felt mature as I exaggerated my delight for his benefit. Such liaisons had been legal for only five years and were a novelty to me. I told him that there was no need to come all the way to [REDACTED], that I’d always have the fondest memories of our time together, that he was the loveliest of men, and I looked forward to meeting Manfred one day. Please let’s keep in touch. Goodbye! I would have liked to thank him for introducing me to Tony, but I saw no point in creating suspicion. Nor did I tell Tony about his former student. We all knew as much as we needed to know to be happy.
And we were. Our trysting place was an isolated cottage not far from Bury St. Edmunds, in [REDACTED]. You turned off a quiet narrow lane onto an indistinct track that crossed a field, and stopped at the edge of an ancient pollarded wood, and there, half hidden by a tangle of hawthorn bushes, was a small white picket gate. A flagstone path curved through an overgrown country garden (lupines, hollyhocks, giant poppies) to a heavy oak door studded with rivets. When you opened that door, you were in the dining room, a place of giant flagstones and wormholed beams half buried in the plaster. On the wall opposite was a bright Mediterranean scene of whitewashed houses and sheets drying on a line. It was a watercolor by Winston Churchill, painted in Marrakech during a break from the Conference in 1943. I never learned how it came into Tony’s possession.
Frieda Canning, an art dealer who travelled abroad a good deal, didn’t like coming here. She complained about the damp and the smell of mildew and the dozens of tasks associated with a second home. As it happened, the smell vanished as soon as the place warmed up, and it was her husband who performed all the tasks: lighting the stubborn Rayburn stove and forcing open the kitchen window, activating the bathroom plumbing and disposing of the broken-backed mice in the traps. I didn’t even have to cook much. For all his grim teamaking, Tony fancied himself in the kitchen. He cooked in the Italian style, learned during four years as a lecturer at an institute in Siena. His back played him up, so at the beginning of each visit I humped hessian sacks of food and wine through the garden from his ancient M.G.A., parked in the field.
It was a decent summer by English standards, and Tony set a stately pace to the day. We often ate our lunch in the shade of an ancient cotoneaster in the garden. Generally, when he woke from his after-lunch nap, he took a bath and then, if it was warm, he read in a hammock slung between two birch trees. And if it was really hot he sometimes suffered from nosebleeds and had to lie on his back indoors with a flannel and ice cubes pressed to his face. Some evenings, we took a picnic into the woods, with a bottle of white wine wrapped in a crisp tea towel, wineglasses in a cedarwood container, and a flask of coffee. This was high table sur l’herbe. Saucers as well as cups, damask tablecloth, porcelain plates, silverware, and one collapsible aluminum-and-canvas chair—I carried everything without complaint. We never went far along the footpaths, because Tony tired easily. In the evenings, he liked to play opera on an old gramophone, and though he urgently explained the characters and the intrigues of “Aida,” “Così Fan Tutte,” and “L’Elisir d’Amore,” those reedy, yearning voices meant little to me. The quaint hiss and crackle of the blunted needle as it gently rose and fell with the warp of the album sounded like the ether, through which the dead were hopelessly calling to us.
One afternoon in late August, we went for a walk in the woods. We often did, but on this occasion Tony turned off the footpath and I blindly followed. We barged through the undergrowth, and I assumed he was taking me to make love in some secret place he knew. The leaves were dry enough. But he was thinking only of mushrooms, cèpes. I concealed my disappointment and learned the identifying tricks—pores, not gills; a fine filigree on the stem; no staining when you pushed your thumb into the flesh. That evening, he cooked up a big pan of what he preferred to call porcini, with olive oil, pepper, salt, and pancetta, and we ate them with grilled polenta, salad, and red wine, a Barolo. This was exotic food in [REDACTED] in the seventies. I remember everything—the scrubbed pine table with dented legs of faded duck-egg blue, the wide faience bowl of slippery cèpes, the disk of polenta beaming like a miniature sun from a pale-green plate with a cracked glaze, the dusty black bottle of wine, the peppery rugola in a chipped white bowl, and Tony making the dressing in seconds, tipping oil and squeezing half a lemon in his fist even, so it seemed, as he carried the salad to the table. (My mother concocted her dressings at eye level, like an industrial chemist.) Tony and I ate many similar meals at that table, but this one can stand in for the rest. What simplicity, what taste, what a man of the world! That night, the wind was up, and the bough of an ash thumped and scraped across the thatched roof. After dinner there would be reading, then talking, to be sure, but only after lovemaking, and that only after another glass of wine.
As a lover? Well, obviously not as energetic and inexhaustible as Jeremy. And though Tony was in good shape for his age, I was a little put out the first time to see what fifty-four years could do to a body. He was sitting on the edge of the bed, bending to remove a sock. His poor naked foot looked like a worn-out old shoe. I saw folds of flesh in improbable places, even under his arms. How strange that, in my surprise, quickly suppressed, it didn’t occur to me that I was looking at my own future. I was twenty-one. What I had taken to be the norm—taut, smooth, supple—was the transient special case of youth. To me, the old were a separate species, like sparrows or foxes. And now what I would give to be fifty-four again! The body’s largest organ, the skin, bears the brunt—it no longer fits the old. It hangs off them, off us, like a room-for-growth school blazer. Or pajamas. And in a certain light, though it may have been the bedroom curtains, Tony had a yellowish look, like an old paperback, one in which you could read of various misfortunes—knee and appendicitis operations, a dog bite, a rock-climbing accident, and a childhood disaster with a breakfast frying pan, which had left him bereft of a patch of pubic hair. There was a white four-inch scar to the right of his chest reaching toward his neck, whose history he would never explain. But if he was slightly . . . foxed, and resembled at times my old worn Teddy back home in the cathedral close, he was also a worldly, a gentlemanly lover. His style was courtly. I warmed to the way he undressed me, and draped my clothes over his forearm, like a swimming-pool attendant, and the way he sometimes wanted me to sit astride his face—as new to me as rugola salad, that one.
I also had reservations. He could be hasty in bed, impatient to get on to the next thing—the passions of his life were drinking and talking. Later, I sometimes thought he was selfish, definitely old school, racing toward his own moment, which he always gained with a wheezy shout. And too obsessed by my breasts, which were lovely then, I’m sure (I won’t bore you with the firm, round, pert nonsense), but it didn’t feel right to have a man the Bishop’s age fixated in a near-infantile way, virtually nursing there with a strange whimpering sound. He was one of those Englishmen wrenched from Mummy at age seven and driven into numbing boarding-school exile. They never acknowledge the damage, these poor fellows; they just live it. But these were minor complaints. It was all new, an adventure that proved my own worldliness. A knowing older man doted on me. I forgave him everything. And I loved those soft-cushioned lips. He kissed beautifully.
Still, I liked him most when he was back in his clothes, with his fine parting restored (he used hair oil and a steel comb), when he was great and good once more, settling me in an armchair, deftly drawing the cork from a Pinot Grigio, directing my reading. And there was something I’ve since noticed over the years: the mountain range separating the naked from the clothed man. Two men on one passport! But, again, it hardly mattered, it was all one—sex and cooking, wine and walks, talking and working.
The cottage was the only place we saw each other. [REDACTED] was too much of a village; Tony was too well known there. I had to hike with my holdall to a remote corner of town on the edge of a housing estate and wait in a bus shelter for him to come by in his ailing sports car. It was supposed to be a convertible, but the concertina metal bits that supported the canvas top were too rusted to fold back. This old M.G.A. had a map light on a chrome stem, and quivering dials. It smelled of motor oil and friction heat, the way a nineteen-forties Spitfire might. You felt the warm tin floor vibrate beneath your feet. It was a thrill to step out of the bus queue, resentfully observed by ordinary passengers as I turned from frog to princess and stooped to crawl in beside the professor. It was like getting into bed, in public. I shoved my bag into the tiny space behind me and felt the seat’s cracked leather snag faintly against the silk of my blouse, one he had bought me at Liberty’s, as I leaned across to receive my kiss.
When my exams were over, Tony announced that he was taking charge of my reading. Enough novels! He was appalled by my ignorance of what he called “our island story.” He was right to be. I’d studied no history at school beyond the age of fourteen. I was blessed with a privileged education, but Agincourt, the divine right of kings, the Hundred Years’ War were mere phrases to me. The very word “history” conjured a dull succession of thrones and murderous clerical wrangling. But I submitted to the tutelage. The material was more interesting than maths, and the reading list Tony gave me was short—Winston Churchill and G. M. Trevelyan. The rest he would talk me through.
My first tutorial was conducted in the garden under the cotoneaster. I learned that since the sixteenth century the foundation of English, then British, policy in Europe had been the pursuit of the balance of power. I was required to read up on the Congress of [REDACTED] of 1815. Tony was insistent that an equilibrium between nations was the foundation of a lawful international system of peaceful diplomacy. It was vital that nations hold one another in check. As a modern example, he spoke of his own relief when he heard that the Soviets, whose empire he otherwise loathed, had finally made a nuclear weapon of their own.
I often did my reading alone after lunch while Tony took his nap. Initially, I impressed him with my speed-reading. Two hundred pages in a couple of hours! Then I disappointed him. I couldn’t answer his questions clearly—I wasn’t retaining information. He made me go back through Churchill’s version of the Glorious Revolution, tested me, groaned theatrically—“You bloody sieve!”—made me read again, asked more questions. These oral exams happened during walks in the woods and over glasses of wine after the suppers he cooked. At first I resented his persistence. I wanted us to be lovers, not teacher and pupil. I was annoyed with him as well as with myself when I didn’t know the answers. And then, a few querulous sessions later, I began to feel some pride, and not simply in my improved performance. I started to take note of the story itself. Hadn’t [REDACTED] at the end of the seventeenth century been the freest and most inquisitive society the world had ever known? Hadn’t the English Enlightenment been of more consequence than the French? Wasn’t it right that [REDACTED] should have struggled against the Catholic despotisms on the Continent? And surely we were now the inheritors of that freedom.
I was easily led. I was being groomed for my first interview with the intelligence service, which was to take place at the end of September. Tony had an idea of the kind of Englishwoman they would want to take on, or that he would want, and he worried that my narrow education would let me down. He believed, wrongly, as it turned out, that one of his old students would be among my interviewers. He insisted that I read a newspaper every day, by which, of course, he meant the Times, which in those days was still the august paper of record. I hadn’t bothered much with the press before, and I had never even heard of a leader. Apparently, this was the “living heart” of a newspaper. I admired those orotund and lordly pronouncements on matters of public concern. The judgments were somewhat opaque and never above a reference to Tacitus or Virgil. So mature! I thought any of these anonymous writers was fit to be World President.
And what were the concerns of the day? In the leaders, grand subordinate clauses orbited elliptically about their starry main verbs, but in the letters pages no one was in any doubt. The planets were out of kilter, and the letter writers knew in their anxious hearts that the country was sinking into despair and rage and desperate self-harm. The United Kingdom had succumbed, one letter announced, to a frenzy of akrasia—which was, Tony reminded me, the Greek word for acting against one’s better judgment. (Had I not read Plato’s Protagoras?) A useful word. I stored it away. But there was no better judgment, nothing to act against. Everyone had gone mad, so everyone said. The archaic word “strife” was in heavy use in those rackety days, with inflation provoking strikes, pay settlements driving inflation, thick-headed, two-bottle-lunch management, bloody-minded unions with insurrectionary ambitions, weak government, energy crises and power cuts, skinheads, filthy streets, the Troubles, nukes. Decadence, decay, decline, dull inefficiency, and apocalypse . . .
Among the favored topics in letters to the Times were the miners and the growing threat of “a workers’ state.” A letter from a retired rear admiral said that the country resembled a rusting battleship holed below the waterline. Tony read the letter overbreakfast and shook his copy noisily at me—newsprint was crinkly and loud back then.
“Battleship?” he fumed. “It isn’t even a corvette. This is a bloody rowing boat going down!”
That year, 1972, was just the beginning. When I started reading the paper, the government’s fifth state of emergency was still months ahead of us. I believed what I read, but it seemed remote. [REDACTED] looked much the same, and so did the woods around the Cannings’ cottage. Despite my history lessons, I felt I had no stake in the nation’s fate. I owned one suitcase of clothes, fewer than fifty books, some childhood things in my bedroom at home. I had a lover who adored me and cooked for me and never threatened to leave his wife. I had one obligation, a job interview—weeks away. I was free. So what was I doing, applying to help maintain the security of this ailing state, this sick man of Europe? Nothing, I was doing nothing. I didn’t know. A chance had come my way, and I was taking it. Tony wanted it, and I had little else going on. So why not?
Besides, I still regarded myself as accountable to my parents, and they were pleased to hear that I was considering the Civil Service. My mother wanted to know why I had not come to live at home after finals, and I told her that a kindly older tutor was preparing me for my interview. It made sense, surely, to take a tiny cheap room by Jesus Green and “work my socks off,” even at weekends. 
My mother might have expressed some skepticism about this plan if my sister hadn’t created a diversion by getting herself into such trouble that summer. Lucy was always louder, feistier, a bigger risk-taker than I was, and had been far more convinced by the liberating sixties as they limped into the next decade. She was the first person I ever saw wearing “cut-off” jeans. Loosen up, Serena, be free! Let’s go travelling! She caught hippiedom just as it was going out of fashion, but that’s how it was in provincial market towns.
That July, returning from her travels, Lucy was a foot passenger off the Calais-to-[REDACTED] ferry and was interrupted by a customs official, or, rather, by his dog, a barking bloodhound suddenly excited by the aroma of her backpack. Inside, wrapped in unlaundered T-shirts and dog-proof layers of plastic, was half a pound of Turkish hashish. And inside Lucy, though this was also not declared, was a developing embryo. The identity of the father was uncertain.
My mother had to devote a good portion of every day for the next few months to a quadruple mission. The first was to save Lucy from prison, the second to keep her story out of the newspapers, the third to prevent her being sent down from Manchester, where she was a second-year medical student, and the fourth, after not much agonizing, was to arrange the termination. As far as I could tell from my crisis visit home (Lucy smelling of patchouli and sobbing as she crushed me in her suntanned arms), the Bishop was prepared to bow his head and take whatever the heavens had prepared for him. But my mother was already at the controls, fiercely activating the networks that extend locally and nationally from any twelfth-century cathedral. It was, my mother assured me, “all jolly hard work,” and none of it more so than the abortion, medically routine but, to Lucy’s surprise, deeply upsetting. Eventually, she received a six-month suspended sentence, nothing appeared in the press, and a Mancunian university rector or some such eminence was assured of my father’s support on an arcane matter at the upcoming synod. My sister returned to her studies in September. Two months later, she dropped out.


So I was left in peace during July and August to loll about Jesus Green, reading Churchill, bored, waiting for the weekend and the hike to the bus stop on the city boundary. It would not be long before I enshrined the summer of ’72 as a golden age in my memory, a precious idyll, but it was only Friday to Sunday evening that held the pleasures. Those weekends were an extended tutorial in how to live, how and what to eat and drink, how to read newspapers and hold up my end of an argument, and how to “gut” a book. I knew I had an interview coming up, but it never crossed my mind to wonder why Tony took such trouble over me. If I had, I would probably have thought that such attentions were part of what it meant to have an affair with an older man.
Of course, the situation couldn’t last, and it all came apart during a stormy half hour by a busy main road, two days before I was due at my interview in [REDACTED]. The precise sequence of events is worth recording. There was a silk blouse, the one I’ve already mentioned, bought for me by Tony in early July. It was well chosen. I loved the expensive feel of it on a warm evening, and Tony told me more than once how he liked the plain loose cut of it on me. I was touched. He was the first man in my life to buy me an article of clothing. A sugar daddy. (I don’t think the Bishop had ever been in a shop.) It was an old-fashioned thing, this present, with a touch of kitsch about it, and awfully girlish, but I loved it. When I wore it I was in his embrace. The pale-blue copperplate words on the label seemed distinctly erotic—“wild silk hand wash.” Around the neck and cuffs was a band of broderie anglaise, and two pleats at the shoulders were matched by two little tucks at the back. This gift was something of an emblem, I suppose. When it was time to leave the cottage, I would bring it back to my bed-sit, wash it in the basin, and iron and fold it so that it would be ready for the next visit. Like me.
But on this one occasion, in mid-September, we were in the bedroom, and I was packing my things away, when Tony interrupted what he was saying—he was talking about Idi Amin, of [REDACTED]—to tell me to chuck the blouse in the laundry basket along with one of his shirts. It made sense. We would be back soon, and the housekeeper, the very discreet Mrs. Travers, would be in the following day to take care of everything. Mrs. Canning was in [REDACTED] for ten days. I remembered the moment well because it gave me such pleasure. That our love was routine, taken for granted, with an immediate future measured in three or four days, was comforting. I was often lonely in [REDACTED], waiting for Tony’s call to the pay phone in the hallway. In a passing moment of something like wifely entitlement, I lifted the wicker lid and dropped my blouse on top of his shirt and thought no more about it. I loaded up the car.
Back on Jesus Green, four days went by, and I heard nothing. Obediently, I read up on the Factory Acts and the Corn Laws and studied the newspaper. I saw some friends who were passing through, but never wandered far from the phone. On the fifth day, I went to Tony’s college, left a note with the porter, and hurried home, worried that I might have missed his call. I couldn’t ring him—my lover had taken care not to give me his home phone number. He rang that evening. His voice was flat. Without greeting, he instructed me to be at the bus stop the following morning at ten. I was halfway through asking him a plaintive question when he hung up. Naturally, I didn’t sleep much that night. Amazing to think that I lay awake worrying about him, when I should have known in my silly heart that I was for the chop.
At dawn, I took a bath and made myself fragrant. By seven, I was ready. What a hopeful fool, to have packed a bag with the underwear he liked (black, of course, and purple) and plimsolls for walking in the woods. I was at the bus stop by nine-twenty-five, worried that he’d be early and disappointed not to find me there. He got there around ten-fifteen. He pushed open the passenger door, and I crawled in, but there was no kiss. Instead he kept both hands on the wheel and pulled away hard from the curb. We drove ten miles or so, and he wouldn’t speak to me. His knuckles were white from his grip, and he would only look ahead. What was the matter? He wouldn’t tell me. And I was frantic, intimidated by the way he swung his little car out across the lanes, overtaking recklessly on rises and bends, as if to warn me of the storm to come.
He doubled back toward [REDACTED] on a roundabout and pulled into a lay-by off the highway, a place of oily, littered grass with a kiosk on worn bare ground which sold hot dogs and burgers to lorry drivers. At this time in the morning, the stall was shuttered and padlocked, and no one else was parked there. We got out. It was the worst kind of day at the end of summer—sunny, windy, dusty. To our right was a widely spaced row of parched sycamore saplings, and on the other side of it the traffic was whining and roaring. It was like being at the edge of a racetrack. The lay-by was a couple of hundred yards long. He set off along it, and I kept by his side. To talk we almost had to shout.
The first thing he said was “So your little trick didn’t work.”
“What trick?”
I quickly turned over the recent past. Since there had been no trick, I was suddenly hopeful that there was some simple misunderstanding that we could straighten out in seconds. We could be laughing about this, I even thought. We could be making love before noon.
We reached the point where the lay-by joined the road. “Get this clear,” he said, and we stopped. “You’ll never get between Frieda and me.”
“Tony, what trick?”
He turned back again in the direction of his car, and I followed. “Bloody nightmare.” He was talking to himself.
I called out over the din. “Tony. Tell me!”
“Aren’t you pleased? Last night we had our worst row in twenty-five years. Aren’t you excited by your success?”
Even I, inexperienced and baffled and horrified as I was, could sense the absurdity of this. He was going to tell me in his own way, so I said nothing and waited. We walked on back past his car and the closed-up kiosk. To our right was a hedge of high dusty hawthorns. Gaily colored sweet wrappers and crisp packets were trapped in the spiky branches. There was a used condom, ridiculously long, lying on the grass. A fine place to end an affair.
“Serena, how could you be so stupid?”
I did feel stupid. We stopped again, and I said in a quavering voice that I couldn’t control, “I honestly don’t understand.”
“You wanted her to find your blouse. Well, she found your blouse. You thought she’d be furious and you were right. You thought you could break up my marriage and move in, but you were wrong.”
The injustice of this overwhelmed me, and it was hard to speak. Somewhere just behind and above the root of my tongue, my throat was beginning to tighten. In case there were tears, I turned away quickly. I didn’t want him to see.
“Of course, you’re young and all that. But you should be ashamed.”
When I found it, I hated my croaky, pleading voice. “Tony, you said to put it in your laundry basket.”
“Come on, now. You know I said nothing of the sort.”
He said it gently, almost lovingly, like a caring father, one I was about to lose. We should have been having a row, bigger than any he’d ever had with Frieda. I should have been flying at him. But, inconveniently, I was about to start crying, and I was determined not to. I don’t cry easily, and when I do I want to be alone. But that soft plummy voice of authority pierced me. It was so confident and kind that I was close to believing it. I already sensed that I would not be able to alter his recollection of the previous Sunday or prevent him from dismissing me. I also knew I was in danger of behaving as though I were guilty. Like a shoplifter, crying with relief at being caught. So unfair, so hopeless. I couldn’t speak to make my case. Those hours of waiting by the phone and the sleepless night had undone me. The back of my throat went on tightening, and other muscles lower down my neck joined in, tugging at my lips, trying to stretch them over my teeth. Something was going to snap, but I couldn’t let it, not in front of him. Not when he was so wrong. The only way to hold it down and keep my dignity was to remain silent. But I was desperate to speak. I needed to tell him how unjust he was being, how he was risking everything between us for a lapse in memory. It was one of those familiar occasions when the mind wants one thing, the body another. Like wanting sex during an exam, or being sick at a wedding. The more I struggled in silence to stay on top of my feelings, the more I hated myself and the calmer he became.
“It was underhanded, Serena. I thought you were better than that. I don’t find this easy to say, but I’m deeply disappointed.”
He went on in this way while I stood there with my back turned. How he had trusted me, encouraged me, had high hopes for me, and I had let him down. It must have been easier for him, talking to the back of my head, not having to look me in the eye. I was beginning to suspect that this was not about a simple mistake, a commonplace failure of memory in a busy, important older man. I thought I saw it all plainly enough. Frieda had come back early from [REDACTED]. For some reason, perhaps a nasty hunch, she had gone out to the cottage. Or they had gone out there together. In the bedroom was my laundered blouse. Then came the scene, in [REDACTED] or in [REDACTED], and her ultimatum: get rid of the girl or march. Tony had made the obvious decision. But here’s the point. He had made another choice, too. He had chosen to cast himself as the victim, the wronged, the deceived, the rightly furious. He had convinced himself that he had said nothing to me about the laundry basket. That memory had been erased, and for a purpose. But now he didn’t even know that he’d erased it. He wasn’t even pretending. He actually believed in his disappointment. He really did think that I had done something devious and mean. He was protecting himself from the idea that he’d had a choice. Weak, self-deluding, pompous? All those, but, above all, a failure of reasoning. High table, monographs, government commissions—meaningless. His reasoning had deserted him. As I saw it, Professor Canning was suffering from a gross intellectual malfunction.
I groped for a tissue in the tight pocket of my jeans and blew my nose with a sad honking sound. I still could not trust myself to speak.
Tony was saying, “You know where this all has to lead, don’t you?”
Still in his soft-voiced therapeutic mode. I nodded. I knew exactly. He told me anyway. As he did, I watched a van draw up at speed and stop with a clever drifting skid on the gravel by the kiosk. Pop music was playing loudly in the cabin. A young guy with a ponytail and a drummer’s T-shirt that showed off his muscled brown arms got out and slung two big polyethylene bags of hamburger buns onto the dirt by the kiosk. Then he was gone, with a roar and a cloud of blue smoke, which the wind carried straight to us. Yes, I was being dumped, like the buns. I suddenly understood why we were here in this lay-by. Tony was expecting a scene. He didn’t want to have it in a [REDACTED] street, or in his tiny car. How would he eject a hysterical girl from the passenger seat? So why not have it here, where he could drive away and leave me to hitch a ride back into town?
Why should I tolerate that? I walked away from him toward his car. I knew what I had to do. Make sure that we both remained in the lay-by. Forced into my company for an extra hour, he might be brought to his senses. Or not. It didn’t matter. I had my plan. I reached the driver’s door, pulled it open, and took the keys from the ignition. His whole life on a chunky ring, a big masculine array of Chubbs, Banhams, and Yales, his office, his house, his second home, his mailbox, safe, and second car, and all the other parts of his existence that he had kept from me. I drew back my arm to throw the ensemble over the hawthorn hedge. If he could find a way in, let him go through the field on hands and knees among the cows and shit puddles and look for the keys to his life while I watched.
After three years of Newnham tennis, my throw would have been reasonably strong. But I wasn’t able to show it off. My arm was at the limit of its backswing when I felt his fingers curl around my wrist and tighten. He had the keys off me in seconds. He wasn’t rough, and I put up no struggle. He pushed around me and got into his car without speaking. He had said enough, and, besides, I had just confirmed the worst of his expectations. He tossed my bag onto the ground, slammed the door, and started the engine. Now that I had my voice back, what did I say? Again, I was pathetic. I didn’t want him to leave. I called stupidly through the car’s canvas top, “Tony, stop pretending that you don’t know the truth.”
How ridiculous. Of course he wasn’t pretending. That was precisely his failure. He gunned the engine a couple of times, in case I wanted to say anything else that needed drowning out. Then he pulled forward—slowly at first, concerned perhaps that I would throw myself onto the car or under its wheels. But I just stood there like a tragic fool and watched him go. I saw his brake lights come on as he slowed to join the traffic. Then he was gone, and it was over.
Two days later, I attended the interview and was accepted. Tony Canning delivered me to my career, but I never saw him again. 

