
Los Gigantes
By T. Coraghessan Boyle
At first they kept us in cages like zoo animals, but that was too depressing. After a while, we began to lose interest in what we’d been brought there to do. We didn’t think about it, or not much, anyway. We were just depressed, that was all, and when they brought the women to us it was inevitable that we went about the business in a half-hearted way. In any case, it was soon over, and then it was time for a meal, another meal. They fed us well, I’ll say that for them. No expense was spared. And the food was good, the best I’d ever tasted, prepared for us by a man who was rumored to have been first assistant to the pastry chef at the Presidential Palace before he was replaced by a Frenchman who didn’t speak a word of Spanish.
Originally we were ten, but one of our number was suspect and quickly rooted out. It happened that a woman refused to go with him, and when Corporal Carrera, who held the keys, wanted to know why, she said, “Just look at him.” And he did. We all did. (This was during the first week, when we hadn’t really had a chance to get to know one another yet and no one had given the man much thought. Why would we? We were being fed. We had women. Life was good.) Anyway, once this woman had spoken up we all began to scrutinize him and saw what she meant: he was damaged goods. He was tall enough, three or four inches taller than me, in fact, and thick in the limbs, but his face was like an anvil and his eyes couldn’t seem to focus. And when he talked it was in disconnected monosyllables that seemed to dredge themselves up out of some deep fissure in his digestive tract. The man in the cage beside mine whispered, “Pituitary freak,” and in that instant I saw what I’d missed. Yes: damaged goods. No sense in wasting the stipend, the ex-assistant pastry chef’s culinary concoctions, and all those prescribed women on him. I felt a sense of outrage that was as much about my own humiliation as anything else: whoever had chosen him had chosen me, too, and what did that say about me?
Even worse, for the first time in my life I had to contend with the fact that I wasn’t the biggest man around. At six feet ten inches and four hundred and twenty-odd pounds I wasn’t far off, but there were two men heavier, in addition to the pituitary case. (Freak or not, he’d still looked down at me.) All my life I’d been the one looking down on the world, the biggest boy and then the biggest man not only in my own bustling port city but in the entire province. I was strong, too. At the Fiesta de Primavera I once lifted two sheep above my head, one in each hand, and for a prank when I was in my teens I hauled the mayor’s shining black Duesenberg coupe up the steps of the Ministry of Justice and left it there at the feet of the gilded statue of the President. By the time I turned twenty I was earning a good wage cranking the capstan that lifted the wooden drawbridge in the center of town so that high-masted fishing vessels could pass beneath it—and, if that seems unremarkable, just consider that formerly three mules had been required to do the job, mules that were now free to pull plows through the fields of maize that ring the city, while the mule skinner himself was able to retire on a small pension and move into the house his mother had left him, at the place where the river runs brown into the moss-green sea. People would come out to watch me work—families with picnic baskets, nubile women, strongmen, grandmothers, sailors. My legend grew. Of course, to be a legend, to attain that status, is to court attention. That was how they found me. And truly? I wish they never had.
Within the month, the first rumors of discontent began to circulate among us. If in the beginning it seemed as if we’d arrived in paradise, our days given over to leisure and nothing expected of us but the essentials, the routine began to wear on us. We were free to roam the compound by day and we had books and a radio and we played games of cards and dice, the usual sort of thing, but we were locked in at night, and the cages—though they were roomy enough and each equipped with a toilet, a desk, a couch, and a reading lamp, in addition to a gargantuan steel-frame bed—were an oppression of the spirit. The man I was to become closest to—Fruto Lacayo, a former circus fat man who stood seven inches shorter but outweighed me by some forty pounds—was the first to voice his complaints.
We were in the courtyard one afternoon, smoking, chatting, getting our bearings in this place that was not, despite appearances, a former zoo but, in fact, a camp where the regime had kept dissidents in a time before dissidence had been so radically discouraged as to eliminate it altogether. Fruto had been pacing along the path that traced the outer walls under the beneficent gaze of the guard in the tower (who wasn’t a guard at all, we were told, but, rather, a facilitator) when he came directly across the courtyard to where I was sitting in the shade with the latest issue of Hombre, examining the photographs of the slim-ankled women who stared out from its pages with looks of airbrushed longing. “Jesus Christ,” he muttered, gasping for breath, “I feel like my joint’s about to fall off.”
I gave him a wary smile. He was a fat man. I was a giant. And if you don’t see the distinction, then you have no access to my soul and no appreciation, either. I shrugged. “Better than working, isn’t it?”
There was a sheen of sweat on his jowls. It was winter then, thank the Lord and the Blessed Virgin, but still the humidity was high and the afternoon temperatures were in the eighties and even nineties, so that we were always uncomfortable, especially where our parts chafed. “I’m not so sure,” he said. “It’s these cages. We’re not animals.”
“No,” I said, “we’re not.”
“Do you know what the President did before he joined the Army—professionally, I mean?”
I didn’t. He’d been President before I was born and I expected he’d be President still when I moved on to the next world.
Fruto winked, as if he were letting me in on a great secret. “You don’t? You really don’t?”
I shook my head.
“Well, let me tell you, let me awaken you: he was a cattle breeder.”
The initial breakout wasn’t a serious attempt—it was perfunctory, at best—but at least it made a statement, at least it was a beginning. Early one night, after we’d lain with the evening’s women and were gathered around the radio in the courtyard half listening to the tail end of one of the President’s speeches (rumba music, that was what we wanted, and “Rumba Ciudad” was due to come on at eight), Fruto heaved himself up from his chair and, addressing us all, growled, “I don’t know about you, but I’ve had it. I’m going home. Tonight. Soon as it’s dark.”
There was a flutter of astonished voices: You can’t be serious! Have you gone mad? Leave here? Melchior Arce, a former stevedore who was nearly as wide across the shoulders as me, though his head was disproportionately small and his left hand had been mangled in an accident, so that it looked like a crushed tarantula dangling from his shirtsleeve, gave a whistle of surprise. “The only way they’ll get me out of here,” he said, “is in a coffin.” He paused to bite off the end of his cigar and spit it in the dirt. “What’s wrong with you, fat man—you a maricón?”
“You want to know the truth?” Fruto went on, ignoring the insult. “I don’t like big women. Never have. I like them petite, the way women should be—if I want to see fat I can just look in the mirror.”
If I’d been feeling the stirrings of my own discontent, now I went rigid with longing: all I could see was the face of Rosa, my Rosita, the girl I’d left behind when I signed the agreement and came all the way across the country to be cooped up here in this stifling compound with its jungle reek and chicken-wire cages that showed us for what we really were. Rosita was petite by any measure, a hundred pounds, if that, and an inch short of five feet. I, too, had always been attracted to the sleek and unencumbered, to the girls who looked more like children than like women, and why was that? Because opposites attract, of course they do—otherwise we’d all be pygmies or giants, instead of something proportional, something in between. I’d asked her to wait for me. “I’ll be gone six months,” I told her, “a year at most. And we’ll save the stipend—every penny of it—so we can be married when I come back.” She asked what the government wanted of me—pressed me, over and over—but I couldn’t tell her. “Secret work,” I said. And she looked up at me with her saucer eyes, beseeching, wanting more, the truth. “Top secret,” I said. “For the military.”
But now, as soon as Fruto spoke the words, I knew I was going with him. We gathered a few things—sliced meat, bread, chocolate bars left over from dinner—and waited till lights-out, at ten, when the nocturnal clamor of the jungle rose to a crescendo and our fellow-gigantes, exhausted from their venereal labors, turned over in their massive beds and began to snore. Then we made our way across the courtyard to the main gate, which was secured by a padlocked chain doubled over on itself. The guard was asleep. Nothing moved but a solitary rat silhouetted against the faint glow of the village that lay three miles to the west of us. I took hold of the chain in the grip of my two hands and snapped it without even trying (it was nothing, a child’s toy, a poor weak thing designed to forestall ordinary men), and then I rolled back the gate on its lubricated rail and in the next moment we were outside in the darkness.
The problem was Fruto. We hadn’t gone five hundred yards down the dirt lane that would take us to the village, where there were taxis, buses, even a rail line that would give us access to the whole of the country, to freedom, to the slim and beautiful, to Rosita, when he sat ponderously on a wet stump overgrown with black twisted vines and, wheezing heavily, croaked, “I can’t go on.”
“Can’t go on? What are you talking about? We just left the place!” I crushed mosquitoes against the back of my neck. Something flapped across the darkened road.
“Give me a minute. Let me catch my breath.” I could barely make out the shape of him there in the dense clot of shadows. I heard him slapping at his own host of mosquitoes. “You don’t have one of those sandwiches handy, do you?” he asked.
“Look,” I said, “if we expect to get out of this, to go home—you do want to go home, don’t you?—we’ll need to get to the village and purchase a bus ticket or hire a taxi and be gone before they bring in the morning’s women.”
“Go on without me,” he said. The air seemed to tear through his lungs. “I’ll follow you after I’ve had a bit of rest. And a sandwich. Let’s split up the provisions now. Just in case.”
“In case of what?”
“In case we don’t meet up again.”
So I left him there. It was no less than he deserved. The worst that would happen was that they would take him back to his cage, to food and leisure and the manipulation of the flesh. For my part, I made it as far as the village, where I found myself distracted by the lights of a cantina. I had to duck to get through the door. Everyone stared. I should say in my own defense that I’m not one of these men who drink themselves senseless, but they didn’t allow us liquor in the compound—for fear it would affect our performance, I suppose—and the taste of it after more than a month without made me want another taste and another after that. I slept somewhere—I don’t remember where. And in the morning, when they came for me, I went along with them as docilely as one of the sheep I’d lifted above my head as if they were no more than woolly clouds trailing across a serene blue sky.
The following afternoon, after we’d eaten our lunch and ministered to the women who joined us each day at siesta time, Fruto and I were summoned to the military barracks on the far side of the village. A truck painted in camouflage colors took us through town (ordinary men, ordinary women, bicyclists, street venders, dogs that were so ordinary that even the bitches who whelped them wouldn’t have given them a second glance) and into another compound, this one made of whitewashed brick, with a three-story building at the center of it. Corporal Carrera led us up the stairs and into a grand office on the second floor that was presided over by a monumental oil portrait of the President and a dozen limp flags representing each of the country’s provinces. There was a bank of windows, spilling light. Beneath them stood a mahogany desk, very grand in size, though to us it was the sort of thing that children make use of in elementary school, and seated at the desk, in full military uniform, replete with epaulettes and layered decorations, was a man we recognized as Colonel Lázaro Apunto, Director of Educational and Agricultural Resources for the Western Region. There were no seats for us, or no seats large enough, and so we were made to stand.
A long moment elapsed, Corporal Carrera stationed at the door, the Colonel gazing up at us with a look caught halfway between irascibility and awe. Finally, he spoke. “So, I’m given to understand that you two have been abrogating your patriotic duties, is that correct?”
I said, “Yes, that is correct.”
“You have complaints—legitimate complaints?”
This started Fruto going, in the way that a molded steel crank, in the hands of the President’s chauffeur, might fire up a balky engine. “We are not animals,” he said, “and we want our privacy. We can’t be expected to be, be intimate, in a chicken-wire cage where anyone can see for himself how we go about our business, and the heat is intolerable. And the insects. And—”
“And the food?” the Colonel asked, cutting him off. “Is that not of the highest order, rich in protein, flavorful? And your stipends, the money we send each week to your families—your loved ones, whose home addresses we scrupulously maintain—aren’t they sufficient? And what of work? It’s not as if we’re asking you to work.”
“The food is excellent,” I said, stifling the impulse to append “Your Excellency” to the assessment.
“Good.” The Colonel sighed, leaning back in his chair. “Very good.” He was a little man, with mustaches. But then they were all little men, everyone in the military, everyone on the street, even the President himself. “For a moment there, I thought you were going to renege on your contract with the government, but here I see the whole matter is nothing, really, just a question of adjustments. You want stucco walls built over the chicken wire? Fine. It will not be a problem. In fact”—he scrawled something on a pad—“we’ll see to it immediately.”
“Tile floors,” Fruto put in. “For the sake of the coolness on our feet. A fan. Two fans. And a radio in each—room—and, and a day off. Once a week. Sundays. Sundays off.” He bowed his head, mopped sweat. His grin was like a grimace. “The day of rest, eh? Our Lord’s day.”
The Colonel tented his fingers, smiled benignly at us. He waved a hand. “All this can be arranged. Your needs are our needs. If you haven’t already divined the importance of the project in which you’re participating, let me enlighten you. The President—the country—has many enemies, I don’t have to tell you that. They are building up their armed forces, constantly building and accelerating, and who can guess what their purposes are—but we must counter them. Do you know your Greeks?”
“Greeks?” I echoed, mystified.
“Homer. Aeschylus. Euripides. They had their heroes, their champions, their Achilleses and Ajaxes, and that is what the President envisions for our country’s forces—and not simply individual heroes but an entire regiment of them, do you see?” 
“Like Samson?” Fruto put in.
The Colonel shot him a look. “Not the Hebrews, the Greeks. They knew how to win a war.”
“The President must be a very patient man,” I offered. “It’ll take generations.”


A shrug. “ ‘Prescient’ is the word. That is why he is the father of our country. And don’t concern yourself: we will breed the issue of your labors—the females, that is—once they reach puberty. And when that issue reaches puberty we will breed them as well.” He fumbled for something on his desk, sifting through the papers there until he held up a single sheet, transparent in the light glazing the windows. “Do you see this? This is a sample requisition form to be sent out to the bootmakers of the future, calling for boots in exactly your size, señor, eighteen triple E. Just think of it.” He settled back in his chair. “Helmets the size of birdbaths, jerseys like tents. No, my friends, the President is a man of foresight, a futurist, you might say, and his vision is all-encompassing. Are you not proud of your country? Do you not want, with all your heart, to protect and nourish her?”
Fruto stood there dazed. I nodded in assent, but it was only for show. Was I seething inside? Not just then, perhaps—we’d already had a pretty fair idea of what was wanted from us, and we had, after all, signed on the dotted line, as venal as any other men—but I could see the months to come, years even, stretching out before me like a sentence in the penitentiary.
Corporal Carrera pulled open the door behind us, our signal to vacate the room: our business here was concluded. But just as we reached the door, my legs working autonomously and Fruto heaving for breath and wiping at his face with the great sopping field of his handkerchief, the Colonel called out to us. “Now go and do your duty, for the love of your country and of the President. Go to your female volunteers—whose stipends are but half of yours, incidentally, and so it should be—and, in your throes, think of him.”
The Colonel was as good as his word. Improvements came rapidly, laborers from the village appearing the very next day to reinforce the frames of the cages with four-by-four posts, enclose them in walls of lath and stucco, and lay tile in a handsome herringbone pattern you could stare at for hours. There were tin roofs. Each of us got a radio. At night, electric fans stirred the breezes and mosquito netting held the insects at bay. I’d volunteered to help with the work—let’s face it, I was bored to the point of vacuity with all that sitting around—but the Colonel wouldn’t hear of it. “No,” he said, on one of his inspections of the compound. “You must conserve your energy”—and here the hint of a smile appeared beneath the dark cantilever of his mustaches—“for your President and your country.”
In the interim, we were bused to the women’s compound, which, as it turned out, lay some three miles to the north of the men’s facility, on the banks of a nameless oozing watercourse that bred mosquitoes and stinging flies in the pestilent millions, so that we were all of us, men and women alike, scratching furiously the entire time we were there. What distinguished their compound from ours, aside from the increase of insects? Not much. They, too, lived in cages, but they were crammed in, four or five of them to a cage, and their camp stretched as far as the eye could see. If we were nine, the women numbered in the hundreds, and this, of course, reflected a simple calculus that any cattle breeder could have worked out on a single sheet of paper.
The women I was put in with the first night were among the biggest in the camp, selected especially for me. And by big I don’t necessarily mean the heaviest—such women were reserved for Fruto and his ilk—but the tallest and broadest, with the longest limbs and the thickest bones. These women could have felled forests, collapsed mines, held back the sea just by linking arms. Where the President had found them, I couldn’t imagine—not till one of them called me by name.
I’d just set down my overnight bag and taken possession of the bed, as uninterested in these women as I’d been in the phalanxes that had trooped in and out of my cage at the men’s compound, when one of them broke ranks and came across the dirt floor to me, my name on her lips. She was Magdalena Duarte. She’d been brought up in the city I called home and—in a shy voice—told me that she’d often come to the drawbridge to watch me at work when she was just a girl. “Before my growth spurt,” she said, covering her mouth with one hand as she laughed at her own joke.
Later, after we’d coupled by rote while the insects whined and the other women, utterly indifferent, unfurled straw mats and lay down to sleep, she asked me how I was adjusting to my new role in life. Did I like it?
“Anything for the President,” I said.
Her voice was soft, with a scratch in it. “All work and no play, eh?”
“Something like that. But what about you—do you like serving your country?”
I could just make out her features in the light of the guard tower where it fell across the wire mesh of the cage. She glowed a moment, her face like a moon rising over a dim horizon. “They move us to a nicer place once we’re pregnant,” she said. “And the stipend is all my parents have to live on in these times. You see, I come from a large family”—she caught herself, giggled softly—“of many children, that is, thirteen of us, and so when the recruiter came to us I did my duty. To the President, yes, and to my family as well.”
I was quiet a moment, thinking about that—duty—when she dropped her voice even lower and whispered, “You know, there’s another compound. Two other compounds.”
“No,” I said, “I had no idea.” Beside us, in the dark, the giantesses heaved and sighed and let their stertorous snores crash through their dreams.
“For little people.”
“Little? What do you mean little?” Forgive me if in that moment I thought of Rosa, my Rosa, my Rosita, and her perfect diminutive feet that were the size of a child’s, of her mouth, her lips, the way she teased me good-naturedly every time I had to bend double and squeeze sideways through a doorway or avoid the chairs in her parents’ parlor for fear of splintering them.
“Not dwarfs, not midgets—the President wants normal stock only—but people who, by the grace or whim of God, are very fine and very small.”
“But why? Why would he want—little people?”
I couldn’t see anything but her face in the mosaic shadow of the wire, but I could feel her shrug animate the mattress. “They say he wants to create a race no more than two feet high and normal in every other way, intelligent, active people like cats who can come and go in the night without detection.”
“Spies?”
Another shift of the mattress. She was nodding now. “Our fatherland has many enemies,” she said, whispering still, as if fearful of being overheard. “We must be ready for them.”
I couldn’t sleep that night, not a wink, not after what Magdalena had told me. I kept picturing Rosa in a camp like this one, stepping into a cage where a wiry little man like a human Chihuahua lay waiting for her, though I knew it was absurd. Rosa was an innocent. She would never volunteer, never allow herself to be conscripted no matter what pressures were brought to bear. Or would she? Would she feel moved in her heart (in her loins!) to serve her country, like all these patriotic women laid out snoring in the darkness around me? The thought seared me, burned in my brain like the perpetual flame illuminating the grave of our President’s lamented mother. It was dawn by the time I finally dozed off, my dreams poisoned and my heart constricted as if a noose had been drawn tight around it.
After that, I bided my time, and when they moved us back to our new apartments in the men’s compound—that very night—I broke out again. This time I went straight for the bus terminal and soon experienced the giddy release of the wheels revolving beneath me as a dark curtain of vegetation lurched past the windows and the striped margins of the road home came clear in the first light of dawn. What I didn’t know was that after our first abortive attempt at escape the Colonel had issued an alert to all carriers to be on the lookout for any big man seeking passage out of the province. They were waiting for me at the end of the line.
Did I go quietly? No, I didn’t. When I saw them there in their Black Maria with its chopping blue light, I came down off the bus like a hurricane and laid that vehicle over on its roof till the men it contained came crawling out the windows and I snatched them up two at a time and flung them behind me like so many paper dolls. Sadly, they’d anticipated me here, too, and their chloroform cannisters brought me down as swiftly and surely as if I were that king ape in the cinema show we’d all marvelled at in simpler times, when the images played across the screen like waking dreams and Rosa breathed quietly at my side.
I awoke in a damp subterranean place that smelled of the raw dirt of the floor and the whitewash slathered over the rough stone of the walls. Here was a huge vault of a room, lit dimly by a pair of gray bulbs in wall sconces, a silent place where no one would hear my cries of outrage or pleas for freedom. I was laid out on my back on one of the big industrial-strength beds, and my hands and ankles were bound up in chains—and not merely run-of-the-mill chains but the heavy steel links they use to moor boats in the harbor of my ancestral home by the sea. It took me no more than sixty seconds to intuit where I was—that is, in the basement of the three-story brick building where the Colonel had his offices overlooking the poor huts and open sewers of the village beyond. If I listened carefully I could hear the sound of footsteps on the floor above and of a chair rolling back and forth on its casters. I tugged at my chains, of course, but they held me fast, secured not to the posts of the bed but to the great ceiba pillars that rose out of the shadows at the four corners of the room to disappear into the ceiling above.
Almost as soon as I opened my eyes, a door swung to at the far end of the room and a woman entered bearing a tray of food. She was of average height and weight, this woman—no Amazon—and, as I soon discovered, it was her task to spoon-feed me while I lay there under the burden of my chains. “Release me,” I whispered, but she shook her head. “Just one hand—so I can eat. I feel like an infant lying here. Please. I beg you.” She shook her head again and pressed a spoonful of the rich seafood stew we know as zarzuela to my lips. If I’d had any notion of refusing it, of going on a hunger strike in protest of the way I was being treated—mistreated—the scent and taste of that zarzuela drove it away. You can’t begin to imagine what it takes to fuel the cells of this body that entraps me. I ate. Ate hungrily and gladly.
And then the women started coming to me, three a day, morning, afternoon, and evening, the big women, the giantesses, lowering themselves over me as I lay chained and helpless beneath them. Did I want to perform the act? No. But I was devoured by lust, perpetually aroused, no matter that I was rebelling inside or that I found the women gross and the task odious. They must have been putting something in my food—one of the coarse brown powders easily attainable at any Chinese herbalist’s shop, the ground horn of the rhinoceros or the friable bones of the tiger infused in alcohol. The women came. I stared at the ceiling. My rage grew.
It must have been the third or fourth day that the Colonel appeared. He was seated in a wicker chair drawn up to my bed when I awakened one afternoon from a bludgeoning dream and he began lecturing me without preliminaries. “You may be interested to know,” he said, “that you’ve obtained excellent results, superior, the best of your cadre.”
“Release me,” I said, my voice tense and caught deep in my throat.
He was studying a notepad. He took a moment to smooth the top sheet with his fingers. “Some seventy-six per cent of the women you’ve”—he broke off, searching for the right phrase—“been with have become impregnated. Congratulations.”
“If you release me, I promise, I swear on my mother’s soul, that I will do my duty without complaint, without—”
He held up a hand. “Speaking of your mother, she’s doing very well for herself, better than she’s ever done in all her life, thanks to the stipend you’re providing. She appreciates your service, as does the President.” Here he leaned in close to me and I saw that a small glittering object was dangling by a ribbon from his right hand—a medal, such as the military doles out to its heroes. In the next moment I felt the pressure of his fingers as he pinned it to the breast of my shirt. “You’ll be released in good time,” he said, “so that you can go back to the compound, where you’ll be more comfortable, but we all feel that, for the present, given your, what shall we say, recalcitrance, not to mention dereliction of duty, you’ll be better off here. Really, it’s for your own good. And the President’s, too, that goes without saying.”
Later, in my boredom and the solitude that ground me down till my consciousness floated free—Rosa, Rosa, where are you?—I shifted my neck and forced my head as far back against the pillow as it would go, so that I was able to squint down the vast slope of my chest and get a look at the medal the President had devised as a token of his gratitude. Dangling from the ribbon was a figure cast in metal—either gold or brass, I never did discover which. It took me a moment—squinting, as I say—to see what it represented: a bull, rampant, with a thin golden puff of steam spewing from his nostrils.
That was it. That was the end. I didn’t care what became of me after that, but I knew then that I hadn’t been born on this earth to serve anybody, let alone the President, that I didn’t love him, didn’t even know him, and that the rage building in me, beat by beat, was a force no man could contain, not even a giant. I waited till the mute who served me had left with the remains of the evening meal and the last giantess had done with me and waddled her way out the door, and then I went deep inside myself, working like a Hindu fakir through every cell of my body, from my smallest toes to the truncheons of my legs and my torso that was like a bucket of iron and on up to my shoulders, my biceps and forearms, and down into the reservoirs of my fingers, one digit at a time.
Then I began worrying the chain that bound my right arm, thrusting and jerking back again, over and over, through a thousand repetitions, till finally it gave way and the arm was free. After that, it was easy. I came up off the bed, chains rattling loose around me, telling tales, and if the guard who must have been watching through a hidden peephole came hurtling into the room I barely noticed. I could have gone through the door and taken the guard with me, but I didn’t. No, I just leaned into the nearest pillar and shoved till the whole edifice began to quake and quake again.
That was six months ago. I wasn’t blinded, no one cut my hair, and when the building came down around me—inferior construction; the termites would have got to it if I hadn’t—I found a pocket of air trapped beneath a beam and was spared. I dug my own way out, and if the authorities presumed I was buried beneath the rubble, along with the Colonel and his functionaries and the great glistening oil portrait of the President, I wasn’t about to disabuse them. This time I avoided public transport, making my way home in the depths of a freight car designed to carry livestock from one place to another.
Rosa and I escaped to the high fractured plains caught fast in the mountains that separate our country from that of our enemies to the south, where we are living now as man and wife in a village populated by Indians whose teeth are eroded by the leaves they chew to give them energy in the high altitudes, where they must scrape a poor living from the earth. I earn my own keep here through main strength, as I always have, hauling loads up and down the stony trails that vanish around each bend and drop off thousands of feet to the distant featureless land below. Am I a beast of burden? Yes. But I’m nobody’s beast but my own. And Rosa’s. Rosa is pregnant now, incidentally, and if we’re lucky she’ll bear our first son come spring, and if we’re even luckier he’ll be neither a giant nor a dwarf, but something in between. As for me, I try to keep my head down and avoid attracting notice, but inevitably they’ll find me, I know that. How could anybody, let alone a man like me, expect to blend in in a land where the people are so very, very small? 

