Someone
By Alice McDermott
On the sidewalk in front of St. Mary Star of the Sea, a Sunday morning in early June, 1937, when Marie was seventeen, Walter Hartnett said, “What’s wrong with your eye?”
Their mothers were talking, purses over their arms and hats on their heads. The sunlight reflecting brightly off the black glass of windshields, the tin fenders, the pocketbooks of the women in that after-Mass crowd. Off Walter, too, when she looked up at him: his dark hair and that white face, gray eyes translucent in the sunshine.
“Nothing wrong with it,” she said. “This one just screws up on me sometimes. When the sun’s strong.”
“Well, don’t let it,” he said. “It makes your whole face look funny.”
Back home, in the tiny mirror above the narrow bathroom sink, she saw it: how the right eye, when squinted closed, pulled at the corner of her mouth so that she looked like a tough with a wad of chewing gum in her cheek; how her glasses, thick bottle bottoms, stayed steady on her nose despite the contortions of the face behind them.
She was reminded for a moment of Walter Hartnett as a boy, the way he’d held his hands behind his back, placid and wise beside blind Bill Corrigan, who had served as the umpire for every stickball game on her street. Games that Walter Hartnett would not join because of his bad leg. She was reminded of the sagacity with which Walter would nod whenever Bill Corrigan—who had been gassed in the war and spent his days in the kitchen chair that his mother brought to the sidewalk every morning—made his impossible calls. As if only he and the blind man could see what the rest of them could not.
She opened up the offending eye. Smiled at the mirror and said, “How’s that?” Took her glasses off entirely and smoothed the skin under her eyes and said, “Is that better? Walter Hartnett. Mr. Hartnett.” Brushed her hair back—dark and thick but, like the scrinching eye, with a will of its own—peered into the small mirror, which showed her now only a smear of face and hair and smiling teeth, made her eyes as large as she could make them, and said out loud, “Is that better, Mr. Walter Hartnett?”
When he called that afternoon—his voice a small and miraculous thing inside the big black receiver—he said he was sorry if he had been rude. It was none of his business, he said, what she did with her eyes. Later, reconstructing the conversation during what was to be the first night of her life that sleep escaped her entirely, she replied, “Not at all,” but at the time she’d barely murmured a word. “I’m bossy sometimes,” he said. “I get it from where I work. They give me a lot of responsibilities. Do you want to go out for a soda?”
When her daughters began dating she told them, “Here’s a good rule: If he looks over your head while you’re talking, get rid of him. Walter Hartnett . . .” But by then they would throw up their hands: “Jesus, Mom, no more Walter Hartnett stories.”

Walter Hartnett on the candy-store stool looked over her head every time a figure appeared in the doorway behind her. It got so that she felt she could see them, too, the other people coming in out of the evening sun, as if she could feel their cool shadows on her back as they stood for a moment in silhouette and he looked up to see who it was. “Hiya,” he’d say if he knew them—even if she was in mid-sentence—“How are you?” He’d shoot a finger up beside his face to signal hello. Or just stare—this was for strangers—his eyes following whoever it was into the candy store, wondering, calculating, assessing as a man alone might do, a man alone and unguarded in the brazenness of his gaze. And then his gray eyes would drop to her face once more. There would be a second of utter indifference, boredom, perhaps, and then a slow dawning—oh, yeah, you—a slow warming as his attention returned to her—well, I’m happy to be here with you—sometimes even as much as a smile entering those dark-lashed eyes, before they flicked upward again.
It must have been second nature to him, this veering attention. But for her it was both devastating and thrilling, so that by the time they’d finished their sodas and slipped from their stools she was unsteady on her feet from the dizzying turns that her hopes, her heart, had been taking. Her pumps caught, somehow, against his built-up shoe, and in the tangle as she fell into him he slipped his warm hand under her arm. “Not very graceful,” he said. But they were both blushing.
Out on the sidewalk again, they walked without touching, although most of the other people on the street seemed to be couples, young and old, strolling arm in arm. The Sunday-evening promenade. The sun was setting with that thick orange light, but the sky to the east was still a cool morning blue. There was only the slightest irrhythm in Walter’s gait, a nearly imperceptible hitch, not a limp. Had he turned right and walked her silently to her stoop, she would have followed, her head down, and said nothing more. But he turned left instead, and she went with him. He was talking about his job. How it was steady and he was lucky to have it. He named some friends who had jobs he wouldn’t wish on a dog—with the B.M.T., with the diocese, on a barge that plied the harbor. He told her to forget about lower [REDACTED] and head to Borough Hall when the time came to look for work. Who wanted to work in [REDACTED]? All the while his eyes following the other couples they passed or darting to the opposite side of the street to see who was there.
When he stopped, she thought perhaps it was because he’d recognized someone ahead. But then he turned to her, and, now in the light of the street lamp, his eyes reacquainted themselves with her face again, indifference, once again, warming into pleasure. He pointed to the brownstone behind him.
“I’ve got to run upstairs for a minute,” he said, his voice full of a reluctance to leave her that well matched his newly recalled delight at her presence. “You want to come up or wait here?”
“This your house?” she said. And he only cocked his head to convey, Whose house do you think it is?
“I’ll come up,” she told him.
He and his mother lived on the top floor, as she and her mother did. “Widows in aviaries,” he would say some time later. He let himself in, calling, “Ma?,” but all the lights were off. He reached for a small lamp, pulled it on. Its amber shade and the bulb beneath it swayed a little.
“She must have gone out,” he said. “Have a seat. I won’t be a minute.”
He walked through the living room, into the adjoining dining room, and then into another room—the kitchen, perhaps. She sat. The couch was covered in a dark-blue brocade, lace doilies on the arms and across the back. There was a painting of the Holy Family above the boarded-up fireplace, a water glass holding fading lilacs on the mantelpiece. Two more heavy chairs in the same midnight-blue brocade faced her. On the small table between them, there were four photographs in oval frames. She stood up and crossed over to them. A wedding portrait of Walter’s parents, the father looking much as Walter would with a big mustache, a portrait of Walter as a baby, wide-eyed and propped up from behind, then in knickers and a white collar, a huge First Communion ribbon on his arm, and then, looking exactly like himself, although more thoughtful and more solemn, in his graduation gown.
She felt a twinge of envy. Envy for the widowed mother who had known Walter all his life, who had heard his first words, dried his first tears—had they been for the shortened leg? She even envied the mustachioed father, now buried in Calvary Cemetery, where her father, too, had gone—envied every happy moment Walter had lived that had no trace of her in it.
She heard his voice coming from the back of the apartment. He was on the phone. He seemed to be speaking seriously. Was it his important job? A lifetime later, she still couldn’t say whether the phone call had been a ruse.
She returned to the couch. When he came back into the living room, he was carrying two opened bottles of beer. He offered and she refused, laughing a little at what struck her as the preposterousness of the idea, and he looked at the brown bottle and said, “Oh, but it’s already open.” As if she had broken a promise. He placed the rejected beer on the radiator cover beside him and then sat next to her on the couch.
“My mother should be back soon,” he said, looking her over—her throat, her blouse, her belt, her hands in her lap. “She’ll want to say hello to you.”
She nodded, pointed to the portraits on the small table. “Is that her wedding picture?” she asked, and he said, “Yeah.”
“She was pretty,” she said.
“I wouldn’t mind getting married,” he told her. And then took a drink of his beer. He began to talk about his job again. What a good job it was. What an easy thing it would be for him to begin to save his money to get a nice place of his own. For when he got married. He sat very close to her. Did she want to get married, he asked, and when she said, Sure, she did, someday, that slow, delighted recognition in his eyes fell on her again. He leaned away as if to see her better. They might have been the only two people in all the vast universe who agreed that they would like to get married someday, he took such pleasure in her answer.
And children? he asked. Did she want to have children?
Well, sure.
Well, sure. His eyes, darker now in the dim light of the apartment, were on her alone, on her face, as if she were the very thing they’d been searching for all evening.
When he leaned to kiss her, it was both her first real kiss and her first taste of beer. He held the beer bottle against her shoulder for a minute as he pressed toward her, dampening her blouse. Then he lowered his arm across her lap to put the bottle on the floor and, moving up again, put his hand on her breast. Astonished and, perhaps, afraid—already she had learned the triumph and distress of his veering attention—she made no move. Delicately—she thought at first that he was making an “O.K.” sign with thumb and forefinger just over her heart—he unbuttoned her shirt, then slipped his fingers into her bra, pulling it aside. Her breast, exposed to the shadowy room, seemed lit with its own light. He sighed and bowed his head. She felt the momentary terror of not knowing what he was going to do as he moved his mouth toward her and then felt it increase a hundredfold when she understood. He closed his mouth over her nipple. He pulled and tugged.
Of course she had seen women nursing babies here and there, in closed-off rooms, and it was this recollection that muddled her emotions now. He breathed deeply, like an infant nursing, and she felt the warm air of his nostrils on her skin. He put his hand to her spine and pressed her toward him. She felt his teeth on her flesh, lightly at first but then in a stinging grip that made her pull in her breath. He clamped harder, and she cried out, which only made him turn his head slightly, as if to get a better grip on her with his molars. He might have drawn blood if there hadn’t been a sudden slam of the door in the downstairs vestibule. He paused, lifted his head. Slam of the interior door and footsteps across the foyer. He said, “Cover up,” and then reached across her lap for the beer on the floor. 
Her poor pale breast was soggy and tender, the pink nipple distended. She fumbled for her buttons. He leaned back on the couch, seemed to roll himself off it, the beer in one hand and the other hand pressed to his thigh. He walked, stooped, really limping now, toward the bottle he had left on the radiator. But then they heard the rattle of keys and another door opening on a floor below. He cursed, and with his back to her hung his head, shaking it sorrowfully. And then, without another word, he limped out of the room again.
For a few minutes she sat alone under the shaded light. She imagined she felt a warm trickle of blood moving down her chest. When he came back he had washed himself, hands and face, and combed water through his hair. He no longer had the bottle of beer, but he swung the second one off the radiator cover and carried it to one of the thick chairs on the other side of the room. He sank into the chair and took a drink. “When we get married,” he said, “you’re probably going to want to live on the parlor floor. Baby carriages and all. But I think that’s cheap. Everybody and his brother walking by your door. I think it’s better to be up high.” He finished off the bottle in two or three long gulps and put his hand to his chest and quietly belched, as if they were already married and had been for quite some time. “I guess you’d better go,” he said amicably.
They walked down the stairs. She felt a panic at each turning—if his mother came through the door now, or now, what would she read on their faces? But he took his time. On the street—the air was lovely, a slight breeze had kicked up, and it felt like bathwater against her skin—he put his arm around her waist as they walked. They passed the church. Was it only this morning that he had looked down at her with the sunlight across his face and asked, “What’s wrong with your eye?”
“Well, at least,” he said, “we won’t have to fight over whose church we’ll get married in, yours or mine. Both our mothers will be happy. What do you have?” he asked. “One more year till graduation, right?”
She said yes.
“Get a job downtown,” he said. “You don’t want to go into [REDACTED].”
When they reached her stoop, he paused. “Here you are,” he said. He put his hands in his pockets and shifted a little on his uneven legs. He may have been feeling the two quick bottles of beer. There was a couple walking down the other side of the street, toward the subway, and his eyes followed them. This time, she turned to gaze at them, too. The woman’s skirt was tight across her wide bottom, and her heels were clicking. The man’s suit jacket was long, with a belt across the back. Together she and Walter turned to face each other again, but this time he did not go through that momentary, disinterested amnesia. Rather, he raised his chin and shot a finger into the air, as he’d done when acknowledging people in the candy store and on the street—a wordless “I know you”—and then let his eyes fall, and linger, on her breast, the one he had exposed and suckled. He grinned. I know you.
She felt both the thrill of his acknowledgment and a hot black rush of shame.
“Go on in,” he said, touching her hip. “Go tell your mother you’ve got a boyfriend.”
Three years before, driving home from Calvary Cemetery, she had sunk into the sweetest sleep she had ever known. They had put her father in the ground and her world was shattered, but the nap she’d had in the hired car was like a long draft of cool water—deep and fragrant, washed with an ivory light—the kind of sleep, she would later learn, that came only in the aftermath of many tears. When the car pulled up to the curb in front of the restaurant where the funeral luncheon was to be held, her mother gently woke her. Only her brother, Gabe, in his Roman collar then, disapproved. His own eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot; there were shadows on his pale cheeks. “You slept?’’ he said, disbelieving. He had ridden in front, beside the driver. “How could you have slept?”
Now, lying beside her mother in the bed they shared because Gabe had come home from his first parish, saying only that the priesthood was not for him, she wondered if such easy sleep would ever come to her again. She knew that she could not put her hand to her bruised and tender breast, for fear that her mother would see what she was doing, but neither could she think of any other way to tamp down the smoldering wire of shame that was coiling down her spine. A thrilling kind of shame that made guilt and confusion feel like pleasure, like joy. She was in love. Walter Hartnett with the gray eyes loved her. Next year they would be married in St. Mary Star of the Sea, and those eyes would never again fall on her with cold indifference. I know you.
Her mother said, in the darkness, “Do you want some hot milk, Marie?”
“No,” she said.
“Can’t you sleep?”
“No,” she said.
“Can you at least try to be still?” her mother said. “It’s 3 a.m. I’ve got to work in the morning.”
“Sorry,” she whispered.
The ticking of the bedside clock had never before sounded so cruel. The windows were broad, uneven strokes of pale gray, hastily painted on the long black wall beyond the bed. What sounds came from the street were distant, indistinguishable. Everyone else was still. Everyone else had fallen into the cool ivory light, fallen asleep.
“Is Walter Hartnett a nice boy?” her mother asked.
She said, “Yes,” but could add nothing more.
Her mother rolled over, bouncing the mattress they shared, then pulled the thin sheet up over her shoulder. “I like his mother,” she said. “Her people are from Armagh.”
By month’s end, Walter was riding the extra stop on the subway every night on his way home from work, and walking past her house, where he always pretended to be surprised to find her sitting on the steps, waiting for him. He would lean against the balustrade, cock the toe of his built-up shoe into the sidewalk, and talk about his work, their wedding, the guys he wouldn’t want to be, his eyes sliding, always, from her face to her breast and then rising up to her face again, his eyebrows lifted as if to say, “Remember?” As if the flush that rose to her cheeks hadn’t already told him she did.
They went to the movies together and a party, once, where he drank half a bottle of whiskey, then leaned heavily against her walking home. They took a drive in a caravan of cars to a summer place owned by one Judge Sweeney, whose daughter went with a guy Walter knew. They had a picnic on the Sweeneys’ lovely lawn but were allowed into the house only to use the john. Driving back, he said, “Maybe we should get a house like that instead.”
She put her hand through his arm when they walked, or he put his arm around her waist. He put his arm across her shoulders in the movie theatre. At the end of the evening, he would kiss her gently, always standing on the sidewalk, at the foot of her steps, never at the door, because, she guessed, he did not want her to turn and watch him limp back down the wide stairs.
She could not say if it was lack of opportunity or part of some plan, but the intimacy of that first Sunday evening was never repeated. And yet it was always there. She felt the pulse thrum in her veins every time they neared his block together—would this be the night that he finally said again, “Do you want to come in?” Leaving the party where he’d had too much to drink, he had paused in the dark and deserted vestibule, and for a moment his head had dropped onto her chest, his hair brushing her chin, and it was all she could do not to cup her breast herself, offer it to him. On the park-like lawn of Judge Sweeney’s summer house he’d stretched out on the grass beside her, propped on his elbows. He was chatting with the others, and the touch of his cheek against her forearm as he spoke and chewed and laughed, the movements of his jaw, filled her with an unbearable recollection of the dark couch and the amber lamp and the bared breast, lit as if from within.
It was the very end of summer when he called her to say, “Meet me for lunch downtown, will you?”
She hardly knew what she was hoping for, but before she left she changed from a sleeveless polished-cotton sheath with a zipper up the back to a striped shirtwaist with buttons and a patent-leather belt. She wore new shoes and new gloves and a new slip and a new hat with red trim. She got to the restaurant before he did and sat alone at a table, which she had never done before, the water glasses throwing off trembling hoops of light because of the tremor in her legs beneath the white tablecloth. She saw him come in—in a suit he had not worn before, tweedy linen with a pinched waist and a belt across the back—and then took off her glasses and smiled up in his direction until the shape of him materialized across the table. “Pretty hat,” he said, and pulled out his chair. “Isn’t this some place? Put your glasses back on. I don’t know you without them.”
She had been here once before, for her father’s funeral luncheon, but this was not yet something she could say without her voice breaking.
She put her glasses back on and said, “Pretty suit.”
He held out his arms. “You like it?” He grinned. He was an ordinary-looking boy with brown hair and somewhat remarkable gray eyes. But handsome today in the suit, the white shirt, and the pale tie. He had small straight teeth. Nice ears. “I borrowed it from a buddy of mine,” he said, “ ’cause I’m on my way up to Judge Sweeney’s summer place for the weekend.”
She leaned her gloved hands against the table edge, pressed the buttons of her shirtwaist against them. “Whatever for?” she said.
His eyes skimmed over hers and then bounced away to follow the rise and fall of his napkin as he shook it out. “Looks like me and Rita Sweeney are getting married,” he said, and tucked the napkin onto his lap.
In her recollection of that hour, she saw the tears accumulate behind her glasses like water in two fishbowls. Because she knew she had cried, and yet she had no memory of a single tear falling.
It wasn’t just that Rita’s family had money, he explained while he ate and the food he had ordered for her sat untouched on her plate. Although that made it better than the two of them, he and Marie—with their widowed mothers ending up alone in their top-floor aviaries if they got married. It was simply that Rita was better-looking. No flaws that he could see. Not, he said, like you and me.
“Blind you,” he said. “Gimpy me.”
He said as the lunch wore on, “Don’t kid yourself that everybody’s equal in this country. It’s the best-looking people who have the best chances.”
“I’m giving my future children the best chance I can give them. What kind of father would I be if I didn’t?”
In her recollection, the tears churned like the sea behind her glasses.
He said, “You’ve been swell. I wanted to give you a nice lunch.”
She walked back to the subway with the tears that were trapped behind her glasses washing up over her eyes. Through them she saw the buildings and the street lamps and the cars with their bright windshields, even the dark figures of other people, grow buoyant. She saw them float past, clashing and bobbing, unmoored by the flood.
At home, she climbed the steps, and everything that was terrible about this house and this street, about her life thus far, washed before her eyes. Here was the turn in the stairs where they’d struggled with her father’s coffin. Here was the couch where she’d found her mother one morning last year, counting the pile of wrinkled dollars in her lap, hollow-eyed, sleepless. Here was the bed that had once belonged to her parents but that she and her mother now shared because Gabe had lost his vocation.
She sat on the edge of the bed. She wanted to take her glasses off, fling them across the room. To tear the new hat from her head and fling it, too. Put her hands to her scalp and peel off the homely face. Unbutton the dress, unbuckle the belt, remove the frail slip. She wanted to reach behind her neck and unhook the flesh from the bone, open it along the zipper of her spine, step out of her skin, and throw it to the floor. Back, shoulder, stomach, and breast. Trample it. Raise a fist to God for how he had shaped her in that first darkness: unlovely and unloved.
The door to the second bedroom opened, and her brother appeared, his Breviary in his hand. There was an uncharacteristic stoop to his shoulders, as if he were prepared for some blow. “My Lord, what is it?” he said.
Apparently, she’d been crying all along.
Standing in the doorway of the bedroom they’d shared as children, he listened to the tale of her woe with his finger still marking his place in the Breviary, the book held against his heart. When she paused, gulping and whimpering, he said simply, “Wash your face. I’ll get my hat.”
In her despair, she obeyed. When she emerged from the bathroom, Gabe was waiting for her. He said, “It is solved by walking,” and opened the door.
He did not take her hand. Or offer her his arm. They walked down the stairs together without touching, like children. He pulled open the vestibule door for her, and then the outside door. On the sidewalk, he slipped his hands into his pockets and nodded that they should go to the right. She went along.
It was a hot day. She hadn’t realized how hot, because earlier, when she left for the restaurant, she had just bathed and splashed herself with cologne, and later, when she returned, the heat was only a part of the general devastation. But now the asphalt was as hot as a griddle. Across the street, blind Bill Corrigan’s kitchen chair had been set out, but it was empty. There were only a few children on stoops. They sat on the higher steps, close to their buildings, where there was some shade. They looked limp and malnourished. She glanced up at them and then glanced down.
The air was a wall. The heat was a reminder of something she had gleaned years ago, when her father was dying, but had managed to forget: that ordinary days were a veil, a swath of thin cloth that distorted her sight. When they were brushed aside, in moments such as these, all that was brittle and terrible and unchanging was made clear. Her father would not return to the earth, her eyes would not heal, she would never step out of her skin or marry Walter Hartnett in the pretty church. And, since this was true for her, it was true, in its way, for everyone. She and her brother greeted the people they knew walking by, neighborhood women, shopkeepers in doorways trying to catch a breeze. Each one of them, it seemed to her now that the veil was parted, hollow-eyed with some disappointment or solitary grief.
Even in this heat, there was the smell of industrial smoke in the thick air.
Her brother walked beside her. His suit jacket was buttoned, and his tie was tight, but his hands were in his pockets, and this made his stride seem leisurely. He paused at the first corner and then shrugged a little, turned left across the street. Soon enough she saw that he didn’t really have a destination in mind, which was fine with her; she might as well do this, walk like this, as anything else. She’d had a brief fear that he was going to take her to church.
On the next block, a young man stopped right in front of them, pulled off his hat, and swabbed his high forehead with a white handkerchief as large as a flag. He was slipping his hat back on as they passed him. She heard him say, “Father,” and then, “Father Gabe?” Her brother turned and greeted the man, whose friendly eyes seemed to stutter for a moment, jumping to her brother’s neck, and then to her. He was short, with a round, boyish face that was florid with the heat. He lifted his hat again as she was introduced, and she saw that his hatband had left a red impression across his forehead. He said, “How are you, Father?” and her brother held up his hand.
“Father no more,” Gabe said. “It wasn’t for me.”
Now panic entered the young man’s eyes—he looked to her again, and she found herself shrugging, the two of them united for a moment by the puzzle of her brother’s lost vocation. Gabe had gone into the seminary when she was a little girl, and when he’d come home from his parish without his collar she was a teen-ager on the brink of her first love. Whatever he had experienced in between had happened in another country.
“Oh, gee,” the young man said, “I’m sorry.” It was impossible to know if he was sorry for the lost vocation or for his own, awkward mistake. “Once a priest,” he began to say, but Gabe spoke over him.
“Nice to see you, Tom,” he said, and held out his hand.
“Nice to see you, Father,” the young man said, and then quickly pulled his lips together.
Gabe raised his palm, a kind of absolution. “That’s all right, Tom,” he said gently.
She and her brother walked on together. The soles of her feet had begun to burn and a blister was forming on her left heel. She felt the back of her dress clinging to her shoulder blades, felt the tickle of sweat running down her spine. By the time they reached the park, the pain of the blister was making her limp. They found a bench just inside, in the shade, and Gabe said, “Let’s sit awhile before we head back.” He said it with an air of defeat, as if they had formerly agreed that they would not stop at all.
It was now late afternoon, and the park was full of people looking for relief from the heat. There were kids with baseball bats and mitts hanging, forgotten it seemed, from their hands. Mothers with carriages. Men with their jackets off. Some in sweat-stained undershirts. Her brother took off his hat and put it on the bench between them. He loosened his tie, reached into his pocket for cigarettes and matches. There was something clean, even cool, about the scent of the struck match,the first exhalation of smoke. She watched him as he drew on the cigarette again and saw how handsome his face was—the smooth stubble of his cheek, the amber glow of his skin and his fair hair. His hands, too, were fine, long-fingered. They’d been wrapped in white cloth on the day of his ordination, a beautiful winter day. She and her mother had ridden the train out to [REDACTED] together. They’d gone straight to the hospital on their return, to tell her father all they had seen.
She opened her purse and took out a handkerchief. She took off her glasses to wipe the perspiration from under her eyes. Her parents had said, “We’re not so enamored of the clergy as some.” Leaving the hospital that evening, her mother had told her, “Your father might have preferred to see him married.”
With her glasses off, she looked at her brother once more, her eyes drawn, perhaps, by the movement of the cigarette to his lips, the suggestion, in her peripheral vision, of a blessing. Here was the familiar blur of his profile seen through her distorted vision: the way she’d known him when she was young, when they had shared that second bedroom. He was not sitting close to her—the heat required a good space on the bench between them—but she was aware of the easy, physical nearness they had known as children.
Her brother tossed his cigarette into the dirt at his feet and lifted his hat again. He leaned forward, over his knees. He spoke without turning to see her.
“He’s more to be pitied,” he said softly. “That bad leg. An affliction like that. It can sometimes make a person compassionate. You’d expect it would. But more often than not it makes them cruel. Makes people resent God. They figure, If he formed me, then why did he choose to form me this way? Why burden me with all this needless pain?”
She put her glasses back on and looked up at the trees, the thick landscape of them against the colorless sky. She had loved Walter Hartnett for the hitch in his walk, the built-up shoe, as much as she’d loved him for his clever smile and his gray eyes.
“Once,” her brother said, “we were all playing ball—Walter was still just a kid then—and an ambulance came along and stopped just past us, in front of the Corrigans’ house. Of course we tore over there to see what was going on. The ambulance men were halfway up the Corrigans’ steps when this nursing Sister comes running out of the house next door, saying, ‘She’s here, over here.’ So they turn around, back down the Corrigans’ steps and then up the steps next door. In no time at all they’re back out again with an old woman—Mrs. Cooper, it was—on a stretcher. ‘Dead,’ one of us says. ‘Drunk,’ says someone else. But the nun says, ‘Mind your own business,’ and shoos us away. So we go back to our game, but then we notice Bill Corrigan. There are big tears running down his face. ‘Is it my mother?’ he says when we come closer, in a voice we haven’t ever heard before, all cracked and whispery.”
Gabe was slowly turning his hat in his hands. There was a bit of white satin inside the crown, elegant and cool, ecclesiastical.
“I mentioned Bill in a sermon once,” he said. “I wanted to say something about faith or second sight, but everyone laughed when I said we’d had a blind umpire when we were kids. So I pretty much left it at that.” He shrugged. “I guess it was something about those big tears. On a grown man. How many of us had ever seen a grown man cry? I guess it—the weakness of it—brought out something cruel in us.”
He paused, looking out across the park. “We said, ‘Yeah, Bill. It was your mother. She’s dead.’ And then we just stood there. Bill dropped his head. It was only a matter of seconds, but for a few seconds we saw him wrecked. His whole life, the rest of his life, however he had foreseen it, blasted. Just for a few seconds. We saw that we had done this. Easily. Casually. Made him suffer.” He shook his head. “For a few seconds,” he said, “we savored it.”
He said, “It was Walter who finally told him, ‘Nah. We’re kidding. Not her. It was the old lady next door.’ Which got us all slapping Bill on the back and laughing at how we’d had him fooled. It took a while for him to get the joke.” Gabe gazed out at the park. “Some joke,” he said.
Even that day, after all her tears, the habit of loving Walter Hartnett had not yet left her, and so she assumed that her brother had told her this story not to admit that he, too, had once been cruel but to prove that Walter had once been kind.
“Rescue me from my enemies, my God,” Gabe said, suddenly sitting back. He paused. “I never much liked playing ball after that. With Bill Corrigan always there.”
He put his hand on the bench between them. “I’m sorry this happened to you,” he said wearily. “There’s a lot of cruelty in the world.” And then waved his hat to indicate the paths through the park and all the people on them. “You’ll be lucky if this is your worst taste of it.”
Turning away from him, she leaned forward to examine the stinging blister on her heel. Across a lifetime, she could see that her brother had been no more able to step out of his flesh—face, chest, and limb—than she was. That he bore in those days his own blasted vision of a lost future.
“Can you make it home?” she heard him say.
She told him she’d be fine if they walked slowly.
He raised his hat to his head, adjusted it jauntily. As he stood, she looked up at him, her eye squinting closed against the sun. She touched his arm. Even through the fabric of his sleeve, she felt him withdraw a little. Something in him, in his muscle or in his bone, withheld.
“Who’s going to love me?” she said.
The brim of his hat cast his eyes in shadow. Behind him, the park teemed with strangers.
“Someone,” he said. “Someone will.” 

