P.E.
By Victor Lodato
The night my father came in from [REDACTED], or wherever the hell he was living, his plane was two hours and twenty-seven minutes late. I hadn’t called to check on the flight, and so I ended up waiting at an airport coffee kiosk, absorbing greasy pumpkin loaf and chasing it down with a triple-shot white-chocolate latte. When I went up to the counter to order a second slice of bread, the girl didn’t bat an eye. But three pieces was clearly too much for her. At that point, she hesitated, like she wasn’t sure if she should give it to me. I mean, what did she think I was doing—making a bomb out of the stuff? To look at me is to know that, obviously, I was eating it. I’m a large man, as my G.P. likes to say. But people at airports are all about suspicion.
“Don’t call security,” I said. But smiling, you know, with good cheer.
“Why would I call security?” she said. Now she looked even more nervous.
“I don’t know. All the bread.” And then I sort of laughed.
I didn’t actually laugh, I just said the words “ha ha.” I’m like that. I pretend I have a sense of humor, but really I don’t.
The girl pinched me with her eyes and then picked up a slice of the bread with plastic tongs and deposited it into a little paper sack. “It’s an end piece,” she said. “It won’t be very moist.”
At first I thought she was punishing me, but then I noticed that it was the last slice in the case.
“I won’t charge you,” she said, which really surprised the hell out of me. She probably could have lost her job for giving away free food. Employees of those little coffee huts are basically slaves. I had a girlfriend once who worked in one, and the psychic damage she suffered at the hands of the management was substantial.
“That’s really nice of you,” I said to the girl. “I don’t mind the end.”
“O.K., whatever, but you can’t eat it here, because we’re closing in like two minutes. You’ll have to take it elsewhere.” She seemed angry again. She was very hard to read.
That’s when it hit me that she probably didn’t like seeing me doing in public what she obviously did at home. Eat too much, I mean. For a second we stared at each other, fat person to fat person, and it was pretty real, but not in any way pleasant. I put a dollar in her jar and split.
When my father came barrelling out of the secure area, I was afraid he was going to hug me, but he actually went right past me. I had to shout at his back.
“Dad!”
He turned and gave me a quick up-down. “Freddy? Where’d the hell you come from?”
“I was standing right here.”
“I didn’t even see you.”
This was not an easy feat of consciousness, considering my size, and I suspected he’d been drinking. Of course, the last time he saw me was over two years ago, and I didn’t look like this then. 

We stepped toward each other, but we didn’t do anything with our arms or our hands. We just stood there, which was fine. It’s awkward when people try to hug me. And then, if I reciprocate, I tend to engulf. Too much of me touches the other person. I feel like a pervy mall [REDACTED] endangering a child.
“Freddy Bo Beddy,” my father said. Sang, actually. He was missing a tooth, and he had a brown backpack over one shoulder that was so jammed with stuff it looked like a thirty-pound Butterball. The thing was pulling him off balance.
“Let me take that.”
“I’m good,” he said. And then he slapped me in the face, twice, in a way that I assume he considered affectionate.
That was basically the end of our “Holy crap you’ve changed but I’m not going to mention it” conversation. We walked down to the luggage carrousel in silence and watched the bags go around for a few minutes before he remembered that he didn’t have any other bags.
“Are you sure?” I asked him.
“Ninety-two per cent,” he said. “Some of these are nice suitcases, though.”
I gathered from this comment that he was still in the habit of stealing things.
“Let’s go.” I touched him lightly on the arm.
“O.K.,” he said. “But I gotta do some wash tomorrow.”
I looked again at the bloated Butterball backpack and understood that it was basically a glorified laundry bag that had just travelled over two thousand miles. This was not a good sign. In the last fifteen years, my father had done several prolonged stints of non-domesticity, after which he often turned up at some relative’s door. Usually one of his sisters’.
“So you’re living in [REDACTED] now?”
“Not really,” he said. “Who told you I was in [REDACTED]?”
“Your flight was from Newark,” I reminded him.
“Oh, yeah. No no no, I just took a bus there to catch the plane.”
“But you’re living somewhere?”
“Don’t get nervous, buddy. I’m just here on vacation.”
I wondered how he’d managed the airfare to [REDACTED]. The last time I spoke with my aunt [REDACTED], she said my father wasn’t working and hadn’t had a real job, as far as she knew, in at least five years. “Makes no sense,” she said. “A man with that much charm, and he’s always had to suck hind tit.” Aunt [REDACTED] is a gentle woman, but her wisdom often erupts like a kind of Tourette’s syndrome.
One unclaimed bag was still going around on the carrousel.
“Poor fucker,” my father said. We watched the bag move past us. It was dark gray with brass accents, like someone had made a suitcase out of a military uniform. It was a stunningly immaculate piece of luggage. Some part of me wished it were my father’s. Just like how in an alternate reality I’m thin and wear a wedding ring.
I’m not saying this to be funny—I’m actually a member of Parallel Energetics. A group that, if you’ve heard about it, you’ve probably only heard the distorted things from that crazy actress. But if you followed the story to the end she actually lost the lawsuit. Though I can understand why she got so upset. I took my first workshop in [REDACTED], six months ago, and on the way home I was so freaked out I almost had a car accident. Basically, the core belief of Parallel Energetics is that there are other versions of you and they’re pretty much walking right next to you at all times. Actually, they’re walking inside you, which sounds like bullshit until you personally experience it. Using the P.E. techniques, you learn how to initiate a dialogue with your other selves and then ultimately you can draw aspects of their energy matrix into your own life. Of course, you’d only bring in the energy matrix of an alternate self that is better (“more evolved”) than your current reality. Because some of your other selves are actually worse off than you, and that can be pretty depressing, especially if you meet like three of them in a row. Which is how I almost got into that car accident coming home from [REDACTED]. Now that I’m a little more advanced in my practice, I know the trick is not to get too emotional about it. All you have to do is honor these lesser selves and then you move on. When you meet them, there’s a kind of prayer you say, for their benefit and for the benefit of all lower beings, blah blah blah. I mean, it’s an important part of the process but it’s secondary to P.E.’s main purpose, which is getting in touch with what we call the “leading edge” yous, which are the yous that have worked out a lot of their shit. When you encounter these yous, your task is to tune in to what it feels like to be them, and sustain that higher frequency for as long as possible. It’s not a weight-loss program exactly, but that’s one of the potential benefits in my case.
Plus, I probably would have never said yes to a visit from my father had it not been for P.E., which has put me in a pretty stable place, emotionally. Especially compared with where I was a few years ago. I’m much more flexible. I’m not saying I can touch my toes; I mean psychically flexible. I know now, for example, that the childhood I remember is not the only version that exists, and so this allows me to be more accepting and forgiving or whatever. Salvatore, my mentor, always says, “Choose your past, choose your path.” Actually, he has a bit of a lisp, and so it sounds like he’s saying, “Choose your path, choose your path.” But I know what he means. He means be careful how you remember stuff, because it influences the shape of your future. So I’m trying to be open-minded about what I remember. [#unhandled_cartoon]
For instance, the day my mother died, my father and I were at the beach. I was seven. My mother wasn’t at the beach, she was at home, with the rope and everything. It’s a long story. Anyway, the point is, I was at the beach. I was probably swimming at the exact moment it happened. I think about that a lot. That I was in the water. I used to hate this fact, but now I respect it. The sea of infinite possibility and everything. Everyone has a different doorway to parallel realities, and mine is the ocean. It’s sort of weird that I ended up in the desert. But sometimes when I’m floating in the pool at my apartment complex I get a glimpse of the crazy multiplicity of it all—all my possible pasts and futures—and I can actually hear myself moan. “The ache of infinitude,” Salvatore calls it. It’s not a pain exactly, it’s more like a longing. I don’t moan loudly or anything. Not that it would matter. I only float at night, after hours. I manage the complex, so I have the keys.
That day at the beach, when I was seven, my father was twenty-nine. Which is like science fiction when I try to picture it. My father, twenty-nine, snoozing beside his boom box in skimpy Speedos. He’s fifty, fifty-one now, and still has the body of an overgrown adolescent, bony and muscular. At the airport, in his raggedy clothes, with his tan unshaven face, he looked like an aging movie star playing a homeless person. On our way out of the terminal, he smiled at about five women, and all of them smiled back at him like he was the most normal person in the world. Unbelievable. Even with a tooth missing he was still drumming up business. I have to admit, it irritated me, and so I did a little experiment. See through their eyes, I said to myself. Which is a thing we say in P.E. For a few seconds I tried to see him as the women did: a slim, handsome man with pale-green eyes, in Wranglers and boots, sporting a wickedly dark tan. My experiment was a success, until it struck me that his skin tone was slightly orange, not unlike the color of the pumpkin loaf. At that point, I really started to wonder if my father was living on the streets again. Because what at first had seemed an enviable [REDACTED] tan now looked distressingly like overexposure to the elements—a bit like beef jerky. I’m not mixing metaphors here. I’m saying the color was pumpkin-loafy, but the texture was very jerky.
When we stepped outside, he took a deep histrionic breath of the desert air. “Very nice,” he said. I guess about the air. He didn’t say he was sorry about being two and a half hours late. Not that it was his fault, but still. It was almost midnight, and I had to work the next day. As we made our way toward the car, my father continued to sniff at the warm breeze like some lost pack animal.
“Are you hungry?” he asked. “You wanna eat?”
His timing was pretty incredible. He asked me this right after I had sat down behind the wheel and the whole car creaked and leaned to one side like a seesaw. This is why I don’t like driving with other people. The unbalance factor.
“We’ll go wherever you want, Freddy. My treat.”
“I’m really not hungry.”
“Who are you kidding?”
“I’m not. I ate before you came.”
“I’m sure you did, Scarlett O’Hara. Where do you wanna go?”
I got large rather quickly. I’m not saying it happened overnight, but that’s how it seemed. Like some sort of dam broke inside me and, boom, the fat just flooded out. But where did it come from? It’s a legitimate question. Because I went from chubby to obese in a record amount of time. Even my doctor didn’t see it coming. When Dr. Chang saw me after the dam had burst, he actually said, “Wow,” which is not something Asian people often say. “What have you been eating?” he asked me. And, yes, it’s true, I do eat a lot, but in my gut I know that’s only half the story. There are miracles in this world—I absolutely believe this. But I also believe that they’re not always progressive. Some miracles, sadly, are destructive.
“I want to see those cactus,” my father said. “The famous ones.” We were still driving home from the airport.
“There’s one right there.” I pointed to the side of the road.
“It looks like a person.”
“Like who?” I asked him.
“Not a specific person. I’m saying, the arms going whoo-hoo! like that.”
I suppose I huffed or something, and my father turned to me. “What?” he said. I was suddenly furious.
“Do clothespins look like people?” I asked him. “Do paper clips?”
“What are you talking about, Freddy? I said, ‘The cactus.’ ”
“Everything looks like a person if you think about it enough,” I told him.
“Why are you getting testy?”
“I’m not testy.”
“You’re hungry,” he said. “I know you.” He patted me on the leg. I could hear him chuckling to himself. “Clothespins, huh? You know, I knew a woman once who—”
“Dad, please.” His hand was still on my leg. “I’m driving.”
What I meant was, Don’t touch me, but he didn’t get the hint. I had to pat his hand with my own, and then he retreated.
We drove past about a hundred more cacti without comment.
“Mexican all right?” I finally asked him.
He replied in Spanish. Fake Spanish. Sí sí wiki chow. It didn’t even sound like Spanish, it sounded like Chinese.
Two weeks of this, I thought.
“What are you staying, two weeks?” I asked him.
“More or less,” he said. “Whatever it takes.”
“Whatever what takes?”
He reached for my leg again but then stopped, flipping the failed gesture into a regal flourish of his hand. “O.K., O.K.,” he said. “You’re driving.”
When the waitress came over, my father wasn’t sure what he wanted. He asked me if he should order a chimichanga.
“It’s deep-fried,” I said.
He frowned, perhaps for my benefit.
“Our chimis are killer,” the waitress butted in. She was a pale girl with overdeveloped black hair. You couldn’t see the tattoos, but you could feel them.
“Should I trust her?” my father said with a theatrical wink.
“They’re really good,” she said.
Though she looked like a child of Satan, she sounded like a cheerleader.
“O.K. then, darling, I’m gonna take your word for it.”
“Beef or chicken?”
“Can I do both?”
She tilted her head as if she’d just been presented with a Zen koan. “No one’s ever asked me that before.”
“Two meats are better than one,” my father said.
At which she actually giggled.
Get a room, I wanted to say.
Instead, I ordered a vegetarian burrito.
“And what are you guys drinking?”
“Water is fine,” I said.
My father nodded. “Water, sure. Unless you have . . . ”
After a perfectly timed pause, Satan’s cheerleader raised her black eyebrows in adorable faux-innocence. “A pitcher of margaritas?”
“Madame Blavatsky over here. What? I’m on vacation, Freddy.”
“I didn’t say anything.”
“Or we can do a half pitcher?” The waitress turned to me at this point, wincing apologetically, as if she suddenly understood the position I was in.
“No,” I said. “Bring a whole pitcher. It’s fine.” Because I thought to myself, Let the story happen. Why fight it?
Immediately I felt nervous about what I’d set in motion, and so I did a little P.E. prayer, the one that basically says, Let worlds collide. I looked down at my hands and noticed they were shaking, which was interesting, because I hadn’t exhibited this symptom in a while.
“Two heads,” I said.
“What’s that?” my father asked.
“Two heads are better than one.”
“That’s what they say, yes.”
“Not meats.”
“Are you O.K., Freddy?”
I opened my eyes. Who the hell knows when I’d closed them.
“Maybe I do need to eat.” It was a relief to admit it, and I let out a little nose-snort of laughter, just as the waitress returned with the pitcher.
“Enjoy, guys.”
“And can we get a cheese crisp, too?” I said.
“Small, medium, or—”
“Medium,” I said, before she could utter the magic word.
I need to stop here.
This isn’t right. This is, wow, this is practically backwards.
This is not about food, and the fact that it keeps going there makes me want to vomit. Literally. This story isn’t really even about my father. The thing is, though, you put him in something like this and he just takes over. He’s like a narrative virus.
What I wanted to tell you is that extraordinary things have happened to me. Arehappening to me. You wouldn’t think this is something I could easily get off track about. But, as Salvatore says, most of my blubber is around my eyes. Apparently, I’m still very angry. I’m always blown away when people tell me that. I mean, I know I’m impatient and irritable and occasionally judgmental, but I really do have a great deal of love in my heart. And not just for my other selves, but for people who have nothing to do with me. People who aren’t me, I mean. Strangers.
If you’d asked me six months ago what I wanted to do with my life, I would have probably said, End it. I’m not saying this to be clever. I was pretty close to buying a gun, actually. But that’s not what I want anymore. I actually want more lives.
On some level, I’ve already forgiven my father. Also, myself. I’ve seen the two of us standing on a street corner and we’re laughing and it’s not a joke. It’s real. Of course, the street we’re on is probably a street that leads to a house where my mother is still alive. That’s not the point, though. The point is that my father and I were happy. Arehappy. Somewhere.
If I seem full of anger, it’s just my style. It’s not my subject.
After we got home from the restaurant, I had a strong desire to get stoned. I was pretty bloated and needed to settle my stomach. I basically use the stuff like peppermint tea. Salvatore had just sold me some beautiful plant matter and it was in a covered ceramic dish on the table in front of the couch.
“Why are you moving that?” my father asked.
“I don’t want you to kick it off while you’re sleeping.” [#unhandled_cartoon]
I usually smoke in the living room, but it’s not polite to toke up in front of an alcoholic. I decided to take the stash to my bedroom.
“What do you have, candy in there?”
“There’s a serape on the back of the couch if you get cold.”
“Chocolate kisses, I bet. You always liked those.”
“You caught me. Good night.”
“Sit with me a minute, son.” He patted the couch. The “son” thing didn’t thrill me. I’d only lived with the man until I was eight, and in the twenty years since then we haven’t exactly gone on a lot of fishing trips.
“Dad, it’s late. I’m tired.”
“What’s a serape anyway?”
“It’s a blanket,” I said. “A shawl. From [REDACTED].”
He pulled it off the couch and wrapped it around his shoulders.
“From [REDACTED], huh? That where you get your pot from?”
I just stood there like an idiot, with the ceramic dish in my hand.
“I can smell it, Freddy,” my father said, laughing. “Come on, I’ll roll one for you.”
“I do not have—I do not smoke pot. Just because you have a problem doesn’t mean—”
“O.K., O.K.,” he said. “I’m sorry.”
“Let’s just go to bed.”
“Sure, kiddo. We can do that.”
“Thank you.”
“Do me a favor first, though.”
“What’s that?”
“Give me a piece of chocolate, would you?”
He collapsed into a monkey-shudder of deranged laughter. I had to close my eyes again. Silently I recited the P.E. prayer.
World inside world inside world,
Come together and show me where I live best.
At the leading edge of thought, I have already become all that I desire.
“Beep beep,” my father said. “You’re holding up traffic.”
He ended up rolling one as thick as a double-A battery. I watched him as he worked, crumbling the weed like a master chef condemned to a single ingredient. He’d always taken his pleasures seriously. Not every child can say that he’s watched his father insert a hypodermic needle into his mother’s forearm with a slow precision that I assumed, at the time, to be a kind of love. “Go to bed, Freddy,” one or the other would say. “You have school tomorrow.”
Yes, there were good times, good times. My father was famous for spreading around his joie de vivre indiscriminately. I came home more than once to find him with a strung-out stranger with her pants down. He loved women, all makes, all models. Let’s just say, my mother became depressed. I didn’t know that word then. Then I would have just said she was quiet. Actually, I probably wouldn’t have said anything. I would have just done what I always did: tug at her hand, like at the string of a talking doll that had ceased to function.
Halfway through the joint, I could hear something clicking inside the walls. Or it might have been my jaw. Inside, outside, I was having trouble discerning the difference. Fuck the membrane! Salvatore’s injunction echoed in my head, but I couldn’t quite embrace it. A sudden blood-rush of anxiety overtook me, sitting in the near-dark with my father. One useless lamp in the corner, abetted by a single candle on the coffee table, actually seemed to be stealing brightness from the room. It was a pretty disastrous mise en scène. Plus, my internal monologue was killing me. Had I really abused substance in a vanilla-candle-scented living room with my ex-junkie father? Supposedly ex, but what the hell did I know? And even if he were clean, as Aunt [REDACTED] said he was, would I now be subject to a ration of shit if my father crumbled while on my watch? I started shaking again and tried to calm myself with a sense memory of Sal petting my hand, which he often does when I get an attack of what he calls my “bunny flutters.” “It’s not the end of the world,” he always says. “And if it is, so what?” A feeling of doom can be productive, if you know how to surf it. One reality ending, another beginning. When you do P.E., you start to recognize the breakthrough moments. Often they’re moments that feel quite sucky. In that you feel a pull. A vacuum.
“You’re very fat,” my father said.
We had never really spoken of my mother’s death before. I took the “fat” comment to be a doorway, considering its spit-in-your-face honesty.
“Very,” I said.
“Did you eat my son? Huh?”
I think I did some Godzilla-like gesture at this point, and then we both laughed in the way that people too tired to laugh laugh. Also, this was not laughing pot. It was stupor pot. Shape-shifting pot, Salvatore calls it. The moon was up, and the shadows of the security bars on the windows were stretched across the floor. A-plus for lighting design, I thought.
“Last meal,” I said. Apparently, out loud.
“What would I eat, you mean?” my father asked.
“Yeah. If we were in prison.”
“That’s an excellent question.”
We both looked toward the ceiling, as if that’s where the imaginary meals were congregating.
“Not Mexican,” he said, shooing away a phantom chimichanga. “I’d probably have your aunt [REDACTED]’s chicken potpie. Did you ever have that?”
The question should have made me descend into fury. I had lived with my aunt [REDACTED] from when I was eight until I was nearly twenty.
“Yeah, I’ve had it.”
“What about you?” my father asked. “What would you have?”
I said the potpie, too.
“Good woman,” he said. “I’m here to tell you.”
Astounding. But I just let it go.
Sometimes I wonder if the man thinks I remember nothing.
After my mother died, my father kept the rope. The noose, or whatever you want to call it. Sometimes he wore it around the house. Never tight enough to do its job, but I don’t think he was being showy or anything. I think he really meant it. In that I don’t think he knew what he meant. Part of it was probably guilt and part of it was probably just wanting to wear something that was hers. A sweatshirt would have been less upsetting to a seven-year-old, but, to tell you the truth, I’m not sure he was fully conscious of the fact that I was still there. Sometimes he bumped into me like a piece of misplaced furniture, after which he’d put his hands on my face like a blind man. His fingers always smelled like he’d just changed a tire.
The first time I saw him put the noose around his neck, it reminded me of the way he’d tie up his arm before shooting up. I remember thinking, Is Daddy going to stick a needle in his head now? It’s funny, the way children’s minds work. He mostly wore it at night. During the day, he kept it under his pillow. More than once, I snuck into his room with a plan to steal it. But every time I reached for it I always felt like I was sticking my hand into a crawl space teeming with rattlesnakes. My lack of bravery still disgusts me. My only solace is that in some other childhood I probably did steal the rope. I probably did the whole nine yards with it. I’m sure there’s a version of me that died at seven.
“This is amazing weed,” my father said.
“It’s artisanal,” I said.
“Meaning what?”
“Meaning it’s grown by people who care,” I said.
After my mother was gone, Aunt [REDACTED] came to the apartment constantly. Cleaning, cooking, doing our laundry. One morning she arrived earlier than usual and saw my father in bed with the rope. “Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, Tom,” she said. “Are you shitting me?” My things were packed, and I was whisked away within an hour. “You’ll see him,” she assured me as we drove to her house. “He’s a decent man if you could pull out his fucking heart.”
Shortly after that, Aunt [REDACTED] managed to have my father confined for almost a year. When I’d ask where he was, her standard reply was that he’d gone to work at the nut-and-bolt factory. Either that or she’d say he was straightening his stockings. I took these things literally, commingled them in my head, and pictured a transvestite version of my father working an assembly line.
“You always liked getting stoned,” my father said.
“How would you know?” I asked him.
“When I took you to that movie, you were stoned.”
“What movie?”
“Remember we went to that movie on your birthday? Like, ten years ago. I picked you up at the house.”
“[REDACTED]’s house?”
“Yeah, I picked you up, and you had that nerdy blue shirt on with the flaps.”
“Flaps? Flaps?”
“That’s what I’m saying. And you were high as a fucking kite, kiddo.”
“I doubt it.”
“Yes, yes, and afterwards we went out for doughnuts. What’d you eat, six of them?”
“Ha ha.”
“I’m serious. But you were skinny then, you were like me. And you made me drive to that place that made the chocolate ones you liked.”
I honestly had no idea what he was talking about.
“The German place,” he said. “Krauser’s? Krautman’s? Krau something. With the eaves and shit. With the gingerbread.
“The place around the corner from the cemetery,” he said.
That’s when I started to feel nauseous. Had my father been cavorting with some other Freddy? I had the strange feeling I’d been replaced.
“Maybe it was about a dog?” he said. “In [REDACTED] or something. I don’t think there were any humans in it.”
“In what?”
“The movie I took you to. I think it was all animals.”
I leaned over to spit into an empty glass. My saliva was thick from smoking, and it wouldn’t disconnect from my mouth. It just hung there like an indecisive worm. [#unhandled_cartoon]
“Blow,” my father said.
I made a bunch of disgusting noises as my father continued to coach me from the sidelines. “I know how to spit,” I tried to say. My father was laughing at this point, and I was doing something like hyperventilating.
“Oh my God, Freddy.”
“Pluh.” I sputtered a little more.
“You’re a mess. Come here.” He took out a handkerchief and swiped it across my mouth. I pulled away. I felt completely demoralized.
“Don’t be a bitch. Let me wipe your face.”
“I don’t feel well,” I said.
“You’re fine. Here. Clean yourself up.” He extended his cruddy handkerchief. I shook my head, and used the serape.
“Why are you being a baby?”
“Baby or bitch?” I said. “Which is it?”
“In your case, both.”
“See how quickly,” I said. “See how quickly.”
“How quickly what?”
“Uch,” I said. I felt like I had eaten a dog. “I’m not a laundromat.”
My father had the audacity to stare at me like I wasn’t making sense.
“You’re not a what?”
Bitch! Baby! Laundromat! The words were whooshing past my head like billboards along a highway. They weren’t so much words as pictures. Another wave of nausea hit me, and I spit again into the glass. My father moved toward me.
“This doesn’t involve you,” I said.
He took the serape out of my hands and walked behind me.
“Stay where I can see you,” I told him.
“What is this, a fucking Western?”
“Aha!” I said. “Interesting!” I stood up and faced him.
“Calm down, for Christ’s sake. I was just trying to put this stupid thing around you.”
“Do I look cold?” I was actually sweating.
“You’re shaking.”
“Well, I’m not in need,” I said. “Of coverment.”
“Would you stop shouting? You wanna wake up the neighbors?”
“They’re my neighbors,” I said. “Don’t try to protect people you know nothing about.”
I could see a photograph of my mother on the bookshelf, above and behind my father’s left shoulder. It was obvious the universe was making some sort of game of the situation, but I didn’t know what was required of me.
What is my role here? I wondered.
“Your role?”
“I wasn’t talking to you.”
My father looked down and shook his head. “[REDACTED] said this, but I didn’t want to believe her.”
“Said what?”
“Come on, buddy, sit down. Whatever you need, I’m here to help you.”
“Help me?” The ha-ha in my throat was so big I started choking on it.
“She thought I should check up on you. See how you’re doing.”
“Bullshit,” I said. “I talk to her every week. She knows how I’m doing.”
“Yeah, well, she says you don’t let her get a word in edgewise and you’re always out of fucking breath going on and on about your boyfriend.”
“My what?”
“The Italian guy.”
“Salvatore?”
“If you’re gay, Freddy, none of us care. But she was worried you were maybe having another one of your things.”
“One of my things?”
“Having another, you know, episode.”
“I’m not gay.”
“I’m just repeating what she said. Anyway, we don’t give a shit about the boyfriend, we just wanted to make sure you were O.K.”
“Stop saying we. Why are you saying we?”
“What’s wrong with we?”
“So—what?—you’re a team now?”
“She wanted to come out herself, but she just had her knees done.”
“I know she had her knees done!” I shouted. “I am in touch with her.”
I felt sick again, and fumbled for my cell. I had Salvatore on speed dial. He’d once warned me that there are forces that will try to pull you back into the mud of your own unconsciousness. They’re often disguised as love, but their sole purpose is to prevent a quantum leap into a leading-edge reality. These counter-revolutionary forces appear at the precise moment one is poised to make a breakthrough. Breakthrough? Or breakdown? Take a deep breath, baby, Salvatore likes to say, because you may not be able to tell the difference. What is required more than anything, he says, is a bravery that is almost beyond human comprehension. I just wanted to hear Sal’s voice, telling me that where I was going was O.K., and not to be afraid.
“Who are you calling?” my father said. “You’re talking to me now.” He tried to pull the phone out of my hand. After a brief struggle, I gained control of the Nokia and held it like a stone over his head.
“What? You wanna hit me, Freddy? Is that what you want?”
“No, I do not want to hit you.” And then this odd but rather lovingly authoritative voice came out of me. It almost sounded amplified. “I wish you all the best,” the voice said.
“You what?”
“I wish you all the best.”
And then I hit him, partially with my hand and partially with the phone.
When I said it, I knew I really meant it, and I could feel the tears come into my eyes.
“Finally,” my father said. “Bet you’ve wanted to do that for a while.”
I asked him if he’d heard what I just said, and he asked if I felt like another go at it. My arm was still raised, as if someone had placed it there.
“I’m right here, buddy. Come on.”
“No,” I said. But then my hand came down a second time across his face.
Actually, that might have been when the tooth came out of my father’s mouth, not before. Something definitely fell onto the floor.
He moaned for a few seconds, and then stopped. And there was some blood, if I’m remembering correctly. The handkerchief was still in his hand, and I suggested he use it.
In the silence that followed, I was aware of the clicking in the walls again. Actually, the sound was coming from the ceiling, as if more teeth were falling, but in the wrong direction.
I looked up and that’s when I saw them, just barely, in the dim light. I shifted my weight. The floorboards creaked; followed, as if in response, by the tiny clicks. Which, now that I gave them my full attention, were more like chirps, or barks.
“They’re frightened,” I said.
“Who?” my father asked, still nursing his jaw.
“The lizards.” I lifted the burning candle toward the ceiling and lightly stamped my foot. Once again, the geckos shifted position. They get in the house sometimes at night, I don’t know how.
“You’re infested,” my father said.
“They’re good luck,” I assured him.
“Maybe one or two is good luck. But you’ve got a shitload up there.”
I kept moving around the room, holding the candle above my head.
“Give me that thing,” my father said, “before you burn down the fucking building.”
I let him take it away from me, but, when my eyes adjusted, I could still see them. I thought of the fly on my mother’s face. The way it was crawling across her cheek when my father and I came home from the beach. But now it was lizards, which eat flies. I could hear myself moan, the way I do when I’m floating in the pool, caught between worlds. I resisted looking at my mother’s photograph for help. I thought it better to stay in the gap.
“Deeny,” my father had cried, that day, running toward her body. The startled fly decamped and buzzed out the open door, absconding with what I have always considered the primary footage.
My father blew out the candle, and I took a step toward him. Floorboard creak, followed by lizard cry. It was like a routine we’d been practicing for years, and finally our timing was perfect.
My father touched me, but I didn’t care now, because every time I moved the lizards answered me. With each step they rearranged themselves on the ceiling. Changingplaces without a second thought.
I was circling the room, my father’s hand still on my arm.
“Are we dancing?” he asked me.
I didn’t answer, but I didn’t pull away either. I mean, it was sort of like a waltz. One-two-three. One-two-three.
“You feel skinnier,” he said. “Up close like this.”
Something cracked under my shoe, and I was worried maybe it was the tooth. Suddenly, I was very conscious of my body. I asked my father if he wanted to take a swim.
He said he didn’t have a suit, and I told him I’d lend him one of mine.
“Still the comedian, huh?” He slapped me in the face in that way of his.
“Or naked,” I said. “I don’t care.”
“Bring out the party girls,” my father crooned.
“The party girls are sleeping,” I said. I walked over to my mother’s photograph and turned it face down. I did it quietly, so I wouldn’t scare the animals.
When my father closed his eyes to hide his tears, I wasn’t overly concerned. Sal says that every change of consciousness is accompanied by a loss of fluid. 

