Chapter Two
By Antonya Nelson
Tired of telling her own story at [REDACTED], Hil was trying to tell the story of her neighbor. It had been a peculiar week. “So she comes to my house a few nights ago,” Hil began, “like around nine, bing-bong, drunk as a skunk, as usual, right in the middle of this show my roommate and I are watching. I go to the door and there she is, fifty-something, a totally naked lady standing under the porch light.” At the time, it had seemed designed to charm, her coy drunken neighbor sporting a plaid porkpie hat and holding a toothbrush like a flag or a flower or a torch. Choreographed, at least, and embarrassing to behold. Bergeron Love, grande dame in her own mind and all around the block.
“Looks like somebody’s not getting enough attention,” Hil had murmured as she unlocked the door. The night was soggy, [REDACTED] autumn, frogs like squeezeboxes wheezing in and out. Her neighbor’s nakedness seemed sad and enervated, breasts flat on her chest, a kind of melted look to her flesh, ankles thick on splayed bare feet. Southern belle in decline, a dismal After picture.
What had Before looked like?
“You gonna invite me in?” Bergeron demanded, raising her eyebrows flirtatiously in an attempt to rally her own outlandishness. She was known in the neighborhood for being a character—some composite of Miss Havisham, Norma Desmond, and Scarlett O’Hara—her ancient family manse, with its aspect of ruined wedding cake, fenced off as if to contain inmates, its fetid kidney-shaped pool, by which her multiple orange cats congregated. Sometimes Bergeron’s antics were whimsical—crashing a dinner or a cocktail party, for example, or hiring someone in a gorilla suit to deliver balloons—and sometimes they were a serious pain in the ass: reporting overgrown lawns or loose dogs or long-term parked cars.
“You can’t exactly say no to a naked lady on your doorstep, can you?” Hil asked rhetorically at the meeting. She glanced at the smiling older man holding the leash of his helper animal. There ought always to be a blind man grinning encouragingly, receptively, at meetings, she thought. The dog lay panting at his feet, its head held a little unnaturally high by the leash. The man’s genial countenance was generic—through every story, no matter how unpleasant, he smiled benignly beneath his lovely hair, wavy and white like meringue. He had, Hil thought, become like a dog himself, unable to judge.
“My roommate had never met my neighbor before, so I introduced them.” How strange to see a clothed person shake hands with a naked one; it was like the meeting of two utterly different tribes. Bergeron Love, this is Janine.
“Nice to meet you,” Janine said, averting her eyes.
“Janine is getting her degree at the U.,” Hil offered. “In social work,” she added, since Janine was shy.
“Ha!” Bergeron Love said, raising her toothbrush. “You can consider this visit a piece of immersion homework! What the hell is that?” she asked, aiming the brush at the paused image on the television.
“A bullet puncturing somebody’s heart in slow motion,” Janine said. On the screen, a few perfect circles: bullet, organ, splatter. “Not actually,” she added. 

“Well, obviously not actually,” Bergeron said. “One of those true-crime shows? I love those, but my boyfriend, Boyd, can’t take it. He literally can’t watch gore. Isn’t that just typical?” Boyfriend Boyd was a mousy man who hid behind a pair of giant square glasses and a push-broom mustache. Every school-day morning he donned an orange vest and stood blowing into a whistle on the corner of Westheimer and Taft, waving his arms to help the children across. Only with that vivid vest and shrill whistle did he seem to have much confidence. Then, or after a few stiff drinks.
“You want a robe, Bergeron?” Hil asked. The woman was going to either sit or fall down, and the nearest chair was the one Hil’s fifteen-year-old son usually used.
“Why would I want a robe?” Bergeron demanded. “You got a problem with the human body? You’re watching that shit on TV and you can’t look at me?”
“I just didn’t want her naked butt on the chair where my son liked to sit,” Hil explained to the [REDACTED] meeting. “But she kind of collapses in his chair anyway and starts to ramble on about her fucked-up life. Sorry, Jim,” Hil added. The blind man had flinched; his single admission, in all the time that he’d occupied his position as accepting group focal point, was that the word “fuck” hurt his feelings. He nodded now, recovered, absolving.
“Friday night,” Bergeron Love had said. “I’m walking buck fucking naked up and down the street, and I can’t even get arrested!”
“That’s partly your fault, you know, Berge,” Hil said, explaining to Janine that Bergeron, years earlier, had been almost solely responsible for rousting a homeless shelter and the homeless who lived there from the neighborhood. “Remember all those drunk bums?” Hil said.
“Pissing in our yards,” Bergeron recalled. “Leaving all their Sudafed trash in the park. You don’t know the half of what I kept off this street. And then they wanted to turn that flophouse into an aids clinic. No, Ma’am, said I.”
Civic duty had once been a Love-family hallmark; there were bridges and schools and state parks commemorating the name. But the more recent generations had had to spend their money on lawyers instead: fighting class-action suits over working conditions at their oil refineries, or covering up the scandalous dalliances of other Loves.
“But, Berge, if those homeless guys were still around there’d have been more action out there tonight. They would have been ecstatic to see you coming,” Hil said. And Bergeron laughed appreciatively, conceding the point, then wondered aloud what a person had to do to get a drink around here. “I had an open container until just a little bit ago,” she explained. “There might be some broken glass out on your walkway—sorry about that.”
Janine jumped at the chance to leave the room to make drinks.
“That is a big old gal,” Bergeron Love whispered.
Hil couldn’t disagree; Janine was three times her own size, a woman who must have had to eat most of the day to maintain her weight, and yet Hil had never seen her do it. Janine had her own shelves in the fridge and cupboards, plastic grocery bags came and went, and still Hil had never shared a meal with her.
“You’re lucky she’s not the nudie here,” Bergeron said, then added, in her normal voice, “Where’s your son? Out on a date? Raising some high-school hell?”
“He’s here,” Hil said. Had he heard Bergeron’s arrival, from his bedroom? Declined to enter the fray? No doubt he was just listening to music on headphones, reading a philosophy book, texting with his school-hours-only girlfriend. Jeremy led a quiet, self-contained life; his peers seemed to frighten him a little. He wasn’t ready, quite yet, to go unguarded into the night. It was he who every evening checked the locks and switched off the lights. After Hil went to bed, he and Janine would play complex and violent video games into the wee hours, speaking a fascinating coded language together while adroitly operating their controllers, never taking their eyes from the divided screen. For this and other reasons, Janine was an excellent roommate to both Hil and Jeremy, her own social life nearly nonexistent. Like Hil, she went to meetings to discuss her defining, overwhelming weakness; in the kitchen now she was no doubt devouring a frozen chocolate bar in addition to mixing gin-and-tonics. She insisted on keeping the chocolate frozen, despite the crown she’d broken just last week. Addicts, Hil marvelled: so dedicated!
At another [REDACTED] meeting, earlier in the week, Hil had started the story of her longtime neighbor Bergeron Love at a different point. “My neighbor the busybody once reported another of our neighbors to the Child Protective Services. She said he was abusing his daughters.” This meeting was for women only; there was no friendly blind man upon whom to settle her eyes in this group. In fact, the women were a tougher audience, over all, than the mixed meetings. Less likely to forgive rambling or giggling during shares, readier to call bullshit on somebody’s tears. “She’d heard him through the bathroom window with the girls—‘Don’t, Daddy, don’t! It hurts! Please, Daddy!’—and assumed the worst. But after my neighbor reported this guy, this huge tattooed Hispanic guy, he started stalking her son.”
Bergeron’s then ten-year-old boy, Allistair. Allistair the fair and pale and earnest and brave, who’d later walked Jeremy around on Halloween, utterly unembarrassed at being seen holding a five-year-old’s hand. Reporting the alleged abuse had been a lesson in minding your own business, Hil thought. The gentle and awkward Allistair had had to be moved to another school, separated from his familiar friends. Restraining orders had been required. Bergeron Love’s front yard was egged, her car graffitied, her most beautiful live oak killed by mysterious means. She never knew what to expect when she opened her front door in the morning.
Bergeron had gone from one house to another, pleading her case, her car with its windshield covered in red spray paint parked at the curb for all to see. “Racist wore!” it said. “I know it’s him because he didn’t spray the car! He cares so much about cars he couldn’t spray the metal!” It was true that the man loved his vehicles; the house and yard were shabby, but his classic sedan and truck sat sparkling and cherry in the drive. That man still lived in the neighborhood. Neither his daughters nor his wife, to this day, had said a word against him.
“Nobody else ever heard or saw anything,” Hil explained. “And Bergeron was always saying outrageous stuff. For all we knew, the kid was overreacting to soap in her eyes—‘Stop! It hurts!’ It just seemed so unfair that her boy was suffering because of her,” Hil went on to the roomful of women, most of them mothers. Little Allistair Love, studious, dutiful, always standing alongside Bergeron at the polling stations on Election Day, shirt clattering with campaign buttons. “I don’t know exactly what I’m trying to say, I guess, but she came to my house the other night, bing-bong, most likely lonely for her boy, I’m thinking. He’s all grown up now, living over in Austin. I mean, I can imagine how it’d be, having your son move away.”
Occasionally, on a bad night in the past, she’d heard the teen-aged Allistair trying to negotiate with his mother and Boyd when they took their drunken disagreements to the street. With a few drinks in him, Boyd could take on a certain defensive bravado, like a person in the woods encountering a wild animal. Their issues were forgettable, at least to them, tomorrow’s amnesia—blame and counter-blame, outrage shouted upon outrage, insult upon insult—but Allistair couldn’t forget them. His entreaties were always the same: Come inside! Please get out of the street. Heartbreaking, that pleading adenoidal voice.
“Every time she came to my door, it was, you know, ‘What fresh hell is this?’ I usually saw her when she was drunk, but I know she had some kind of wits about her, because she got shit done in our neighborhood. And she seemed to bring up a pretty great kid, mostly by herself.” Bergeron the pitiful, whose only marriage, it was rumored, had not lasted more than a summer, that gold-digging, sperm-donor ex-husband who’d left her pregnant and poorer by half. Also, Bergeron the bully, who’d driven off the homeless and kept out the aids patients. Bergeron the hypocrite, who’d fought many a zoning battle from the confines of her own sagging antebellum monstrosity, in need of paint and roofing and porch repair, not to mention its proliferating cat population, inbred and unhealthy. And Bergeron the legend, débutante, socialite, donor, scion of the noble Love family, some sort of mysterious yet commanding black sheep.
At the women’s meeting, Hil didn’t mention what had happened that very morning: the ambulance and fire truck that had roused the block at daybreak, pulling into place on either side of Bergeron’s front walk, half a dozen uniformed people leaping into action, neighbors stepping out in their sweatpants and bathrobes and mussed hair, arms crossed over their chests, curious as to what the mercurial Bergeron Love had set in motion now. 
On that earlier naked night, after Janine came back from the kitchen, Hil had excused herself briefly. In the hall, she was grateful for her son’s resolutely closed door. She dialled her neighbor’s number, making her way to the study, the window of which looked out toward the Love house, where Hil could see, through the tall front window, the shape of Boyd watching television. He didn’t answer the phone on the first call. “Oh, hell no,” Hil murmured, dialling the number again. She could almost hear it ringing over there. Could almost hear Boyd’s reluctant sigh as he rose, this time, and picked up. “Hello?” he said hopefully, as if he hadn’t already seen who it was on caller [REDACTED] As if he had no idea what he was going to be told. He was a chinless man who routinely let himself be bossed around, made small. Bergeron wouldn’t marry him (“Fool me once, shame on you,” she’d said on the subject of marriage. “Fool me twice? No, Ma’am”), wouldn’t let him be anything other than her aging, laughably labelled boyfriend. “You maybe want to come retrieve Bergeron?” Hil said to him.
“She told me she was setting out to get arrested.”
“That hasn’t come to pass just yet. I guess I could call the cops, if you really think she needs all that drama.” Thanks to her family, Bergeron rarely feared authority. “But it takes so long when there are uniforms involved. The paperwork.”
Five minutes later, Boyd stood wearily at the door, fully clothed, Hil was grateful to see. But, instead of taking Bergeron home, Boyd sat down in the second of the blue chairs. “Want a drink?” Janine asked him, probably hoping to sneak another chocolate bar.
Now that there seemed to be a party going on, it was no longer possible for Jeremy to ignore the sounds coming from the living room. He greeted Boyd first, Boyd who’d ferried him many a time across the busy lanes of traffic to his elementary school, whistle shrieking, a protective hand on his back. Then Jeremy spotted Bergeron Love, naked in his favorite chair. He immediately turned away, blushing, a gesture Bergeron pounced upon.
“You can’t be shocked!” she declared. “Give me a break! I betcha you’ve been all over the Internet looking at porn!”
Boyd provided Jeremy with a grimacing shrug; Bergeron Love, in her hat, on the chair, was nothing like Internet porn.
“What are you, on drugs?” Bergeron demanded when Jeremy was silent. “Are you high?”
“No, Ma’am,” Jeremy said, now directing at her his sober, scornful glare. Telling her, in his way, that he was fully aware that he was the only unintoxicated person in the room. He next fixed his eyes on the television screen, where the bullet through the heart remained, like a new piece of art on the wall, a mesmerizing solar system of bloody mayhem.
“Oh, don’t get all saintly,” Bergeron said, smiling suddenly at Jeremy’s indignation. “Be patient with your elders. Cut us some slack. You’re just like Allistair,” she added fondly. “All serious and all. You remember my son, Allistair?”
Jeremy said that he did.
“He didn’t like to be put on the spot, either, didn’t like a direct question, didn’t like a big to-do. Played things pretty close to the vest. He was embarrassed by his mom, too.”
“He’s not embarrassed by me,” Hil said. Jeremy glanced at her with what she hoped was agreement. After all, Hil wasn’t the one who routinely got drunk and was then driven to getting things off her chest to anybody who’d listen. Hil had not, tonight, decided to parade around naked in public. Jeremy went to Al-Anon meetings because his father had made it a condition of their custody arrangement. “They’re O.K.,” he’d reported to his mother of those meetings. “Lots of hugging. A little too much God talk, for me. I don’t say I’m an atheist anymore, though.”
“That’s a good lesson, wherever you learn it,” she’d said.
“Allistair was embarrassed, but he loved me,” Bergeron went on. “He’d have done anything for me. Not like Boyd here. Boyd doesn’t love me. The people who love me are all gone, except Allistair. Mother and Daddy, my brother George, Jr., but not that son of a bitch Allistair, my brother Allistair—that’s Allistair the first. Everybody dead and gone, except Allistair the second.”
“I love you,” Boyd put in.
“But,” Bergeron said, taking a few breaths, “sometimes? Sometimes, it’s like Allistair might as well be dead, for as often as I see him. For as often as he seems to think of me.”
Janine cleared her throat quietly.
“He thinks of you,” Jeremy said.
“Bless your heart,” Bergeron told him, “but how in the world would you know?” She then turned to Boyd. “And as for you, Boyd, you just learned how to say the words ‘I love you.’ I taught you those three words, and how I wish I hadn’t. I might as well live with a parrot, for all they mean to you. Hey, where’s your dad, anyway?” Bergeron asked Jeremy. “What ever happened to him? How’d you end up with this big gal in your house instead?”
“Hey, now,” Hil said. “No need to be bitchy, Bergeron. You can be naked, and you can interrupt our TV program, but no getting flat-out rude.”
Poor Jeremy. What would he tell those hugging teen-agers at the next Al-Anon meeting?
Jeremy took a seat next to Janine on the couch, loyal to his late-night gaming buddy. As for Janine, she was studying the coffee table, the part in her hair a bright, humiliated red. Like many an obese woman, she tended to her hair and makeup fastidiously. Hil tried to remember if this was the same coffee table that she and Jeremy’s father had brought with them when they moved into the house, twenty years ago. Was it the same one on which Bergeron Love had stood during her first visit to them, to deliver her city-council campaign speech? Perhaps.
“Do you remember when you were running for city council?” Hil asked.
“Which time?” Boyd said. “She’s run more than once. And lost,” he added quietly, somehow vindicated.
“A real reformer is never popular!” Bergeron declared.
“Nineteen-ninety or so,” Hil said. “You guys were canvassing the street. Bergeron was stumping for herself on the Democratic ticket, and you, Boyd, were signing up Republicans. You got up on this very table to give your speech, Berge.” Boyd had stood aside with his clipboard, as if he knew that Bergeron was a perfect argument for the opposition.
Jeremy and Janine laughed.
“Oh, make fun,” Bergeron said. “Go ahead, Bergeron Love’s a crackpot and a nuisance.” She struggled out of the blue chair now, glass of ice in one hand, toothbrush in the other. “Nobody was ever grateful for anything I did, nobody—not you homeowners or your kids, not you, Boyd, you damn cringing mynah bird, not even my own son, Allistair, not even Allistair! Everybody’s a fucking ingrate. Why run for office? Why give a shit? Why have children?” she demanded of Jeremy, who blinked at the force of her fervor.
“Well,” he said, taking a moment to put it politely, “it’s not exactly like he asked you to do it.”
At the meeting that was mostly men, mostly professional men in the medical district, the story of the naked social call had got some laughs. The men had appreciated the ludicrous image, the backstory details of previous drunken escapades featuring that wild card Bergeron Love. They had even admired Jeremy’s visit-ending remark. That innocent teen-age observation had defused poor Bergeron Love, and Boyd had then been able to rise from the chair he’d been occupying so ineffectually and guide her limply out the front door.
“Wow,” Janine had said. “Talk about true crime.”
“Yeah,” Jeremy said. He seemed to be studying the paused image on the television screen.
At the front door, Hil had hugged Bergeron Love, taken into her arms that molten clammy body. She’d never held a naked woman before.
“Don’t tell Allistair, will you?” Bergeron had said into Hil’s ear, no longer angry, no longer an incendiary force, no longer anything but tired. “Don’t tell my boy.”
After Hil had finished her story and acknowledged the [REDACTED] members’ applause, that mild smile still on the blind man’s face, she and her friend Joe went, as usual, to their favorite Mexican restaurant to debrief.
Joe said, “You didn’t share the part about Bergeron Love being dead now.”
“Yeah, well, that part would kind of ruin the fun, wouldn’t it? Everybody would get all ashamed when they found out they were laughing about a dead person, right? Five days after the naked visit she was dead.”
“Short shelf life for a crazy story.”
“Exactly.” Joe didn’t care that Hil ordered a beer at Chuy’s. It was his opinion that beer didn’t actually count, since it took so much of it to provide a buzz. He hadn’t had a drink in five years, but it had been only two hours since he’d downed a Xanax. He was checking his watch to see when he could have another.
“You could tell the dead part next time, like it just happened. A follow-up on the first story. Chapter Two.”
“Could do. You know, if it weren’t for you and blind Jim, I’d quit this meeting.”
Hil had first chosen the meeting because it was near the medical center and coincided with happy hour. She’d thought she might meet a doctor. Instead, she’d found Joe, a guy she’d known in high school, gay, also looking for a doctor. “I wanted to meet doctors because my dad was a doctor, and I like the fact that these guys are just like him, and yet also, hello, they’re no better than me.”
“A syllogism,” Hil had supplied. “It makes perfect sense.”
“Sort of. And maybe you can tell me why I’ve chosen to live with a porno addict?” he then said.
“Same reason I live with a morbidly obese woman? It’s good to have somebody else’s bad habits around to put your own in perspective?”
“Agreed. Also to compare and contrast. To get a little clarity.”
“I should have known doctors wouldn’t think of [REDACTED] as a dating opportunity. In fact, the opposite.”
“Live and learn,” Joe said. “Or live and don’t.”
It had been an unusually clear Wednesday when the emergency vehicles had screamed into the early-morning quiet, halting at the gates of Bergeron Love’s beautiful ruin. Boyd the boyfriend had come out to unlock three generations of fence: the faded white picket one that matched the house, the black iron one with its spiky tips, and the hideous yet effective chain-link with concertina wire, the enclosure of most recent vintage. Bergeron Love had been wheeled out on a gurney, feet first, just as she might have predicted she’d exit that formerly lovely home, the place where she’d been born, raised, loved, and abandoned. Suicide, Hil had guessed at the time—Bergeron Love’s last jaunt had been a kind of farewell tour of the neighborhood, exposing herself, putting herself at risk because she no longer cared what happened.
Also watching the action was the man who’d been reported for abuse, the man who might simply have been bathing his child. What was going through his head? Hil wondered. Good riddance, racist wore.
Hil lied at [REDACTED] meetings. There she led a life of sobriety; there she had not had a drink for eleven months now. Soon she would reach her fictitious one-year mark. When she told Bergeron’s story, she was at least telling the truth. But was it a story? Twenty years’ worth of half-known information, neighborhood gossip. She’d told it at two different meetings, starting at different places: the naked visitation, the phone call to Child Protective Services. She could also have told a version that began with Bergeron campaigning for city council, using Hil’s coffee table as a soapbox, she and her husband both horrified and amused by their new neighbor, still newlyweds themselves, their moving boxes barely unpacked, their son a few years in the future. Or she could have begun with the homeless man who’d been discovered lying beside Bergeron’s kidney-shaped swimming pool one night, the man who’d somehow breached the various fences, empty bottle of isopropyl alcohol in hand, and who would have died had Bergeron not summoned an ambulance, had she not moved with surprising speed to get him aid. Or Hil could have begun with the cocktail party that Bergeron had once interrupted, pushing into Hil’s house in an ivory evening gown and trying to seduce her husband. “He’s flirting with me!” she’d gaily shrieked, laying her head on Hil’s husband’s chest. “Look out, Boyd, you’ve got competition! Careful, Hil! You’ll lose him!” Hil and her husband had laughed about it later in bed. As if he would be attracted to the likes of Bergeron Love! Or to anybody else, he’d declared then tenderly to Hil, holding her close and naked, romantic, affectionate, still hers.
It was not a suicide, the neighborhood learned from Boyd after the vehicles had driven soundlessly away, their emergency lights extinguished. A heart attack, very sudden, there in bed. She’d grabbed his earlobe, he told one neighbor, illustrating by grabbing it himself, his face a shocked white, mousier than ever. She couldn’t speak, Boyd said. That neighbor told the rest of them, and that was the end. Everybody went back inside.
Allistair would come home, Hil thought. He’d have to. It would be up to him to decide what to do with the Love estate, the squalid monument in which he’d been raised, the mosquito-ridden pool, those many cats, the lingering boyfriend.
Meanwhile, Hil had found a new meeting to go to, one so close to her house she could walk there. Handily, there was a pub situated on the route home. Maybe at this meeting she’d start the story of her eccentric neighbor by talking about the son as a teen-ager, Allistair trying to keep his mother from trouble at two or three or four in the morning, calling to her uselessly, “Please come back inside, Mom! Pleaseget out of the street!” 

