The Musical Brain
By César Aira
Iwas a kid—I must have been four or five years old. This was in my home town, Coronel Pringles, at the beginning of the nineteen-fifties. One night, it must have been a Saturday, we’d gone to have dinner at the hotel; we didn’t eat out often, not because we were really poor, though we lived pretty much as if we were because of my father’s austere habits and my mother’s invincible suspicion of any food she hadn’t prepared herself. Some obscure combination of circumstances had brought us to the hotel’s luxurious restaurant that night and seated us, stiffly and uncomfortably, around a table covered with a white cloth and laden with silver cutlery, tall wineglasses, and gold-rimmed porcelain dishes. We were dressed to the nines, like all the other diners. The dress codes in those days were relatively strict.
I remember the continual to-and-fro of people getting up and carrying boxes full of books to a small table like an altar at the far end of the room. Most of them were cardboard boxes, though there were wooden ones, too, and some were even painted or varnished. Sitting behind the table was a little woman wearing a shiny blue dress and a pearl necklace, with a powdered face and white hair combed into the shape of a feathery egg. It was Sarita Subercaseaux, who later on, throughout my time there, was the high school’s headmistress. She took the boxes and examined their contents, making notes in a record book. I was following all this activity with the keenest attention. Some of the boxes were too full to be properly closed, others were half-empty, with only a few books knocking around inside, making an ominous sound. Yet it wasn’t so much the quantity of books that determined the value of the boxes (though quantity did matter) as the variety of titles. The ideal box would have been one in which all the books were different; the worst (and this was the most frequent case), a box containing nothing but copies of the same book. I don’t know who explained this rule to me; maybe it was the product of my own speculations and fantasies. That would have been typical: I was always inventing stories and machinations to make sense of things I didn’t understand, and I understood almost nothing. Anyway, where else could the explanation have come from? My parents weren’t very communicative, I couldn’t read, there was no television, and the kids in my gang of neighborhood friends were as ignorant as I was.
Seen from a distance, there’s something dreamlike about this scene, with the boxes of books, and the way we’re dressed up as if for a photo. But I’m sure that it happened as I’ve described it. It’s a scene that’s kept coming back to me over the years, and in the end I’ve worked out a reasonable explanation. Plans must have been afoot to set up the Pringles Public Library, and someone must have organized a book drive, with the support of the hotel’s proprietors: “a dinner for a book,” or something along those lines. That’s plausible, at least. And it’s true that the library was founded around that time, as I was able to confirm on my most recent visit to Pringles, a few months ago. Sarita Subercaseaux, moreover, was the first head librarian. In my youth, I was one of the library’s most assiduous patrons, probably the most assiduous of all, borrowing books at a rate of one or two a day. And it was always Sarita who filled out my card. This turned out to be crucial when I began high school, since she was the headmistress. She spread the word that in spite of my tender years I was the most voracious reader in Pringles, which established my reputation as a prodigy and simplified my life enormously: I graduated with excellent grades, without having studied at all.
During my last visit to Pringles, hoping to confirm my memories I asked my mother if Sarita Subercaseaux was still alive. She burst out laughing.
“She died years and years ago!” Mom said. “She died before you were born. She was already old when I was a girl.”
“That’s impossible!” I exclaimed. “I remember her very clearly. In the library, at school . . .”
“Yes, she worked at the library and the high school, but before I was married. You must be getting mixed up, remembering things I told you.”
That was all I could get out of her. I was unsettled by her certainty, especially because her memory, unlike mine, is infallible. Whenever we disagree about something that happened in the past, she invariably turns out to be right. But how could she be right about this? Perhaps I was remembering Sarita Subercaseaux’s daughter, a daughter who as well as being the spitting image of her mother had followed in her footsteps. But that was impossible. Sarita had never married and she was the prototype of Pringles’s classic old maid: her clothes, hair, and makeup always in meticulous order; cool and remote, the very image of sterility. I was quite sure of that.

Getting back to the hotel. The movement between the tables in the restaurant and the little altar where the boxes were piling up was not entirely fluid. Everyone there knew everyone else—that’s how it was in Pringles—so when people got up to take their boxes to the far end of the room they stopped at other tables on the way to greet and chat with their acquaintances. These little transactions, informed as they were by a sincere curiosity about the lives of others, which was common to all the inhabitants of Pringles, turned out to be rich in information, and that is how we learned that the Musical Brain was being exhibited next door, in the lobby of the Spanish Theatre. The news was an excuse to finish with the dinner, which all of us were finding tedious.
The Musical Brain had appeared in town some time before, and an informal association of residents had taken charge of it. The original plan had been to lend it out to private homes, for short periods, following a procedure that had been used with various miraculous images of the Virgin. But the requests for those images had come from people with illnesses or family problems, while the reason for borrowing this new magical device was sheer curiosity (although perhaps there was also a touch of superstition). Since the association had no religious framework, and no authority to regulate the rotation, it was impossible to stick to a schedule. On the one hand, there were those who tried to get rid of the Brain after the first night, with the excuse that the music stopped them sleeping; on the other hand were those who built elaborate niches and pedestals, and then tried to use their expenses as a pretext for prolonging the loan indefinitely. The association soon lost track of where the Brain was, and those who, like us, hadn’t seen it yet came to suspect that the whole thing was a hoax. That’s why we were overcome by impatience when we found out that it was on display just next door.
Dad asked for the bill, and when it came he reached into his pocket and took out his wallet, for me the most fascinating object in the world. It was very large and made of green leather, marvellously embossed with complex arabesques, the back and front adorned with glass beads that composed colorful scenes. It had belonged to Pushkin, who, according to the legend, was carrying it in his pocket the day he was killed. One of my father’s uncles had been an ambassador in [REDACTED] at the beginning of the century and had bought many works of art, antiquities, and curiosities there, which his widow had distributed among her nephews and nieces after his death, since the couple had no children of their own.
The Spanish Theatre, which was part of a complex belonging to the Spanish Provident Society, abutted the hotel. And yet we didn’t go straight there. We crossed the street to where our truck was parked, walked around it, and then crossed back. This detour was for my mother’s benefit: she didn’t want the diners at the hotel, in the unlikely event they should look out the windows and actually be able to see something, to suppose that she was going to the theatre.
We walked into the lobby, and there it was, placed on a box, an ordinary wooden one that Cereseto (the manager of the theatre) had disguised with strips of shredded white paper, the kind used for packing. The presentation was quite effective: it was like a big nest, and there was a double allusion to fragility, that of eggs and that of artifacts. The famous Musical Brain was made of cardboard and was the size of a trunk. It resembled a brain quite closely in shape, but not in color, because it was painted phosphorescent pink and crisscrossed with blue veins.
We formed a silent semicircle. It was the sort of thing in the presence of which one is at a loss for words. Mom’s voice interrupted our rapt contemplation.
“What about the music?” she asked.
“Yes, of course!” Dad said. “The music . . .” He frowned and leaned forward.
“Maybe it’s switched off?”
“No, it’s never switched off, that’s what’s so strange. . . .” 
He leaned farther forward, so far that I thought he’d fall onto the Brain, then stopped suddenly and turned to look at us with a conspiratorial grin.
My sister and I came closer. Mom shouted, “Don’t touch it!”
I felt an overwhelming desire to touch it, if only with a fingertip. And I could have. We were completely alone in the lobby. The ticket vender and the usher must have been in the theatre, watching the play, which seemed to be nearing its end.
“How could you hear it, with all this racket!” Mom said.
“It’s barely a whisper. To think that people give it back because they find the noise annoying! It’s a disgrace!”
Mom nodded, but she was thinking of a different disgrace. Thunderous laughter was coming from the theatre, shaking the whole building. It must have been a full house. Leonor Rinaldi, Tomás Simari, and their troupe were performing one of those vulgar, broad comedies that people never seemed to tire of laughing at; they used to tour the provinces for years on end. The secret, tremulous music supposedly emanating from the Brain could hardly compete with all the guffaws and stomping.
My mother, proud heir to a line of sophisticated music lovers, reciters, and tragedians, disdained those products of popular taste epitomized by Leonor Rinaldi. Indeed, she actively campaigned against them. The theatre, for her, was disputed territory, a battlefield, because it was there that the classes of Pringles waged their cultural wars. Her brother directed an amateur dramatic society called the Two Masks, which was devoted to serious theatre; the town’s other drama club, directed by Isolina Mariani, specialized in comedies of manners. All of Isolina Mariani’s devotees must have been in the stalls that night, keen to learn, admiring Rinaldi’s demagogic stagecraft, absorbing her mannerisms like an invigorating syrup.
Mom’s aversion was so extreme that on several occasions, when one of those popular companies came to town, she made us have dinner early, then drove us to the theatre just as the play was about to start and parked the truck near the entrance (but not too close, choosing a place in the shadows), so that she could check on who was going in. Usually there were no surprises: the audience was made up of poor people from the outer suburbs, whom my mother called “the great unwashed.” She would say, “What can you expect of ignorant fools like that?”
But occasionally there was someone “respectable” among them, and then she became zealous. She felt that her spying had been worthwhile, and that from now on she’d “know the score” when dealing with certain cultural hypocrites. Once, she went so far as to get out of the truck and rebuke a cultivated dentist who was climbing the steps of the theatre with his daughters. Wasn’t he ashamed to be supporting that vulgarity? And bringing his daughters! Was that his idea of education? Luckily, he didn’t take her too seriously. He replied, with a smile, that for him theatre was sacred, even in its most debased forms, and that his primary objective was to expose his daughters to popular culture at its crudest in order to give them some perspective. Needless to say, his arguments made no impression on Mom.
Anyway. To return to the memorable evening of our encounter with the Musical Brain. We got into the truck and off we went. We had a yellow Ika pickup. Although the four of us could fit in the front, I usually sat in the back, in the open air, partly because I liked it, partly to keep the peace—I was always getting into noisy fights with my sister—but mainly so that I could spend some time with my good friend Geniol, the family dog. Geniol was very big and white, of indeterminate breed, and he had a large head (like the man in the Geniol ads, hence the name). We couldn’t leave him at home alone, because he howled and made such a racket that the neighbors complained. But in the back of the truck he was well-behaved.
There was also a more arcane reason that I liked to travel in the back: since I couldn’t hear what they were saying in front, it meant I didn’t know where we were going, and so the itinerary would take on an unpredictable air of adventure. I knew where we were going when we set out, if I’d been paying attention, but as soon as Mom climbed into the truck she was bound to be overcome by a sudden curiosity and ask Dad to make a detour down one street or another so that she could see a house, a store, a tree, or a sign. He was in the habit of humoring her, which meant that instead of going a few hundred yards in a straight line we’d often end up driving five miles, following a tortuous, labyrinthine route. For my mother, who had never left Pringles, it was a way of expanding the town from within.
That night, all we had to do was turn the corner and go three blocks to our house. But we turned the other way, which didn’t surprise me. It was very cold, but there was no wind. The street lights at the intersections, suspended by four diagonal wires attached to the posts on the street corners, were still. And, above us, the Milky Way was all lit up and full of winks. I settled Geniol on my legs and hugged him to my chest. He didn’t resist. His fur reflected the starlight. We continued straight ahead to the square and then took the boulevard. Sitting with my back against the cab, I could see the square tower of the city hall receding into the distance, and I assumed that we were heading for the station, to satisfy one of Mom’s whims. The station was far away, and the mere supposition that we were going there made me drowsy. Geniol had already fallen asleep. A few blocks down the boulevard, the buildings began to thin out, giving way to big vacant lots taken over by mallows and thistles. Those mysterious plots belonged to no one. My eyes were beginning to close. . . .
Suddenly, Geniol shook himself, jumped off my lap, went to one side of the truck, and growled. His agitation startled and bewildered me. Struggling free of the muddle of sleep, I looked, too, and understood why we’d made the detour and why Dad was slowing down now, bringing the truck almost to a standstill: we were passing the circus. My sister was leaning out the window in front and yelling in her half-articulate way, “César! The circus! The circus!” I knew, of course, that a circus had come to town; I’d seen the parades in the streets, and our parents had promised to take us the following day. I stared, entranced. Points and lines of bright light showed through the canvas of the tent, which seemed as big as a mountain to me, and the whole thing glowed with the light inside. A performance was under way: we could hear loud music and the cries of the audience. The smell of the animals had made Geniol nervous. Behind the tent, in the darkness, I thought I could see the shapes of elephants and camels moving among the wagons.
Many years later, I left Pringles, as young people with artistic or literary inclinations often leave small towns, hungry for the cultural offerings promised by the capital. And now, many years after that emigration, it strikes me that perhaps I was lured away by a mirage, because nights from my childhood in Pringles come back to me, each so vivid and manifold that I can’t help wondering if I didn’t exchange riches for poverty. The night I am reconstructing is a good example: a book drive, a theatrical performance, and a circus, all at the same time. There was a range of options to choose from, and you had to choose. And yet there were capacity crowds everywhere. The circus was no exception. As we drove past the entrance, we had a brief glimpse of the boxes crammed with families and the stands groaning under the weight of the spectators. In the ring, the clowns had built a human pyramid, which came tumbling down, provoking roars of laughter. Almost the whole town was at the circus. The inhabitants of Pringles must have thought it was the safest place.
Here an explanation is required. The circus had come to town three days earlier, and almost immediately the troupe had been rocked by a tremendous scandal. Among the attractions were three dwarfs. Two were men: twin brothers. The third, a woman, was married to one of the twins. This peculiar trio apparently had a defect that made it unstable and led to the crisis that occurred in Pringles. The woman and her brother-in-law were lovers, and for some reason they had chosen our town as the place in which to make off with the savings of the cuckolded husband. We might never have been aware of this bizarre intrigue if it weren’t for the fact that, a few hours after the disappearance of the lovers, the husband vanished, too, along with a 9-mm. pistol and a box of bullets belonging to the owner of the circus. His intentions could not have been clearer. The police were notified immediately, in the hope of averting a tragedy. The witnesses (clowns, trapeze artists, and animal trainers) all agreed on how furious the husband had been when he found out, and how determined he was to exact a bloody revenge. His threats were taken seriously, because he was a violent little man, known for his destructive fits of rage. The police mobilized all available manpower, and in spite of the circus authorities’ vehement insistence on discretion the news got around. It was unavoidable, because the whereabouts of the runaways—that is, both the lovers and their pursuer—could be discovered only with the help of the public. At first, it seemed a simple task: the town was small and it was easy to give a clear description of the individuals in question simply by using the word “dwarf.” Police officers were positioned at the railway station, the long-distance bus terminal, and the two roundabouts at opposite ends of the town, from which the outgoing roads diverged. These measures served only to confirm that the dwarfs were still in Pringles.
Not surprisingly, they were the sole topic of conversation. What with the joking, the betting, and the collective searching of vacant lots and empty houses, the prevailing mood had initially been one of cheerful agitation and delicious suspense. Twenty-four hours later, the mood had changed. Two fears had begun to creep in, one vague and superstitious, the other very real. The first arose from the fact that the case remained perplexingly unsolved. With ample justification, the inhabitants of Pringles had assumed that the town was socially and geographically transparent. How could something as conspicuous as three dwarfs go unnoticed in that tiny glass box? The episode began to take on a supernatural coloring. The dimensions of a dwarf turned out to be problematic, at least for the unsettled collective imagination. Perhaps they should have been turning over stones, examining the undersides of leaves, peering into cocoons? Mothers started looking under their children’s beds, and children took their toys apart to check inside.
But there was a more realistic fear. Or, if not entirely realistic, it was at least presented as such to rationalize the other one, the fear without a name. Somewhere out there was a loaded gun, in the hands of a desperate man. No one was worried about him carrying out his plan (and this can be explained without accusing the inhabitants of Pringles of being especially prejudiced. Caught up in the general panic, they regarded the dwarfs as a species apart, whose life and death were matters to be settled among themselves and were of no interest to the town), but shots do not always find their mark, and at a given moment anyone might happen to get in the way of a bullet. Anyone at all, because no one knew where the dwarfs were, much less where their encounter would take place. The assumptions that gave rise to this anxiety did not concern the husband’s aim so much as the elusive tininess of the adulterers. The same fantastic miniaturization that accounted for the failure of the search led people to imagine that every shot was bound to miss.
Another twenty-four hours later, the two fears had become tightly intertwined, and the town had succumbed to an acute delirium of persecution. No one felt safe at home, still less in the street. But there was something reassuring about public gatherings, the bigger the better: other people could serve as human shields, and, since altruistic scruples go out the window when terror reigns, no one spared a thought for those whose bodies would be riddled with bullets. That must have been the reason we’d gone out to dinner, something we virtually never did. And on another level of motivation, in the realm of magical thinking, it must have been the reason Dad had brought Pushkin’s famous wallet, which he saved for special occasions. As you will remember, Pushkin was killed by a shot to the heart.
Here I close the explanatory parenthesis and return to the story. But, in doing so, I notice that I have made a mistake. The action continues in the lobby of the theatre, which means that the drive along the boulevard past the circus must have happened earlier, when we were on our way to the hotel. And, in fact, when I think about it more carefully, it seems to me that the sky behind the city hall and above the circus tent was not entirely dark: it was the “blue hour,” with some remnants of dusky pink, and a layer of phosphorescent white along the western horizon. The black starry sky must have been an interpolation, suggested by the hair-raising events that were to take place later, on the roof of the theatre. My confusion may be due, in part, to this story’s particular strangeness: although there is a compelling logic to the order in which the various episodes follow one another, they also exist independently, like the stars in the sky which were the only witnesses to the dénouement, so the figures they compose may seem to owe more to fantasy than to reality.
It happened more or less like this: Having satisfied their curiosity about the Musical Brain, my parents headed for the street, partly because there was nothing more to see and partly to be gone before the audience started coming out of the theatre. The performance must have been over; the applause hadn’t stopped, but it couldn’t go on much longer, and Mom didn’t want to be seen leaving along with “the great unwashed.” People who didn’t know better might think she had sunk to the cultural depths of the Peronists.
She turned and began to walk out in such a decided manner that I felt the moment had come: it was now safe to touch the large pink object. Without a second thought, I reached out. The tip of my right index finger touched the surface of the brain for a bare fraction of a second. For reasons that will soon become clear, that momentary contact was something I would never forget.
My naughtiness escaped the notice of my parents, who went on walking toward the lobby doors, but not of my sister, who was two or three at the time, and imitated everything I did. Emboldened by my daring, she wanted to touch the Brain, too. But, clumsy little devil that she was, she didn’t go about it daintily. Drawing herself up to her full height—she was barely as tall as the box on which the Brain rested—she raised her little arms and pushed with all her might. Sensing what was about to happen, she held her breath, then released it in a scream as the Brain began to move. My parents stopped and turned, and I think they took a step or two toward us. For me, the whole scene had taken on a phantasmagoric precision, like a play rehearsed a thousand times. The Musical Brain slid heavily over the edge of the box, fell to the floor, and broke.
My sister burst into tears, more upset by guilt and fear of punishment than by the sight that had appeared before our eyes, which was probably beyond her powers of comprehension. I, however, was old enough to intuit what had happened, though struggling in the throes of a horrified confusion, which my parents must have shared.
The pink crust of the Musical Brain had shattered on impact, a sign of its fragility, because it had fallen only a few feet. Inside was a solid, glassy mass, like gelatine, perfectly molded by the shell. A certain flattening, and perhaps a wobble from the aftershock (though I may have imagined this), indicated that the substance wasn’t hard. The color was unequivocal. It was semi-coagulated blood, and it wasn’t difficult to figure out its origin, or origins, because two dead bodies were suspended in the middle of the mass, in fetal position, head to toe: the male dwarfs, the twins. They were like playing-card images, dressed in their little black suits, their faces and hands as white as porcelain; the color contrast made them visible through the dark red of the blood, which had escaped from wounds in both throats like open, screaming mouths.
I said that I saw this scene with supernatural clarity, and that is how I see it now. I see more now than I did then. It’s as if I were seeing the story itself, not as a film or a sequence of images but as a single picture freezing repeatedly. There was movement, though, and plenty of it: it was a whirl, an abyss of irrational atoms. 
Mom, who was prone to hysteria, started screaming, but she was drowned out by a sudden uproar from the theatre. Something unexpected was happening. The great Leonor Rinaldi had already received her ovation, and the cast had taken seven curtain calls. The actors were about to walk off after the final bow, and the members of the audience were already rising from their seats. At that moment, as the characters began to fade from the skins of the actors, who were standing all together in a line across the stage, each face and body still identifiable as a part of the comedy, but a comedy whose plot, with its surprises and errors, was jumbled in that row of smiling, bowing figures, as if it were up to the spectators now, as they clapped and ran their eyes along the line, to recompose the story and bid it farewell as the fiction it was, along with the make-believe living-and-dining room, the armchairs, the fake staircase, the painted windows, the doors that had opened and closed in a cascade of comic revelations, and all the rest of the set . . . just then, as the festivities drew to a close, the large plaster effigy of Juan Pascual Pringles that adorned the apex of the proscenium arch burst open. The features of the founding father exploded like a nova of chalk, and in their place the astonished audience beheld the strangest creature ever produced by a theatrical deus ex machina: the female dwarf. That had been her hiding place, and no one would ever have found her. One might have thought that the vibrations caused by the clapping and the shouts of “Bravo!” had loosened the aging molecules of the heroic grenadier’s plaster head; but that supposition soon had to be abandoned when it became clear that the bursting of the effigy had been produced by an internal cause—namely, an increase in the volume of the creature. Once impregnated, this killer chrysalis had withdrawn to a safe hiding place in order to allow nature (of which monsters are also a part, after all) to take its course. And, by chance, the process had reached completion just as the actors were about to walk off; a few minutes later and the creature would have emerged into a dark, empty theatre.
As it happened, this provided an encore of a kind never witnessed before or since. Two thousand pairs of eyes saw a large head appear from the niche, a head without eyes, nose, or mouth, but crowned with curly blond hair, then two chubby arms ending in claws, and a pair of opulent pink breasts with eyes where the nipples should have been. The creature kept coming out, horizontally, up near the high roof, like a gargoyle, until, with convulsive shudders, she freed her wings, first one, then the other—enormous iridescent membranes that made a sound like cardboard when they flapped—and was airborne. The rear part of her body was a bloated sac covered with black fur. At first, she seemed to be falling into the orchestra pit, but then she stabilized herself at medium altitude with a series of rapid wing beats and began to fly around erratically.
Terror broke loose. A fire would not have caused as much panic as that flying mutant: there was no telling what she might do. The aisles were jammed, the exits blocked; people were jumping over the seats; mothers were looking for their children, husbands for their wives, and everyone was screaming. Frightened by the commotion, the thing flapped around aimlessly; she, too, was looking for a way out. When she lost altitude, the screaming in the stalls intensified, and when she climbed again the loudest cries came from the boxes, where spectators were trapped by the choked stairways. In desperation, some people climbed onto the stage, which the actors had already deserted. Some refugees from the front boxes also climbed down and crossed in front of the semicircle of footlights. Noticing this, other members of the audience, who had been shoving their way up the aisles but could see that it would be impossible to get through that chaotic human mass, turned, ran frantically back, and leaped onto the stage. It was like breaking a taboo: invading the space of fiction, which was precisely what they had paid not to do; but the instinct for survival prevailed.
As for the winged mutant, that giant dragonfly, after crossing the theatre’s airspace several times with her terrifying flap-flap, picking up speed, and repeatedly bumping into the ceiling and the walls, she, too, plunged toward the stage, which was, after all, the most reasonable thing to do. She was swallowed by Leonor Rinaldi’s bourgeois stage set, and all the drop scenes came tumbling down.
The audience finally fled the theatre, but naturally no one wanted to go home. Calle Stegmann was seething with an agitated crowd. Diners came out of the hotel’s restaurant, some with their napkins tucked into their collars, many still holding forks. The news had spread all around town; an unofficial messenger had taken it to the big top and arrived just as the show was ending, so the circus audience transferred itself en masse. When the police arrived, with sirens blaring, they had trouble making their way through the crowd. So did the firefighters, who came on their own initiative, as did an ambulance from the hospital.
Pouring out through the lobby, the crazed horde had thoughtlessly trampled the globe of blood. When the owner of the circus came to collect the bodies of the dwarfs, he was given two wrinkled silhouettes, which the clowns identified, handing them around. There hadn’t been time for the clowns, or any of the other circus performers, to change out of their costumes. Riders, trapeze artists, and fakirs rubbed shoulders with actors from Leonor Rinaldi’s company, and with Tomás Simari and La Rinaldi herself, and all of them mingled with the mingled audiences, not to mention curious onlookers, neighbors, and assorted night owls. There had never been anything like this, not even at carnival time.
The first search of the theatre, conducted by the police with pistols drawn and led by Cereseto (only he knew all its ins and outs), proved fruitless. The creature had disappeared again, wings and all. There was a rumor that she had found a way out and flown off. The hypothesis should have provided some relief, but people were disappointed. By now, everyone was in the mood for a show, hanging out for more. Hopes were revived by an unexpected event: from the imposing mass of the theatre, countless bats and doves came flying out in all directions. Because doves don’t usually fly at night, they gave this exodus a fantastic twist. Those little creatures had obviously sensed a monstrous presence and cleared out helter-skelter.
There was a moment of suspense, then a shout, a pointing hand. Every head rocked back, and all eyes converged on the pseudo-Gothic crenellations of the theatre’s façade. There, crouched between two turrets, was the monster, with her wings held out and her body seized by a tremor that was visible even at a distance. The fire truck’s powerful spotlight lit her up. Down in the street, two of the clowns, with their motley costumes and painted smiles, climbed up on cars, and each waved a flattened dwarf body over his head like a banner.
Although the inhabitants of Pringles had never seen a mutant of this kind, they were mainly country folk, familiar with the principles of procreation. However odd the forms that nature’s children take, the basic mechanisms of life are common to them all. So it was soon obvious to the crowd that the creature was about to “lay.” All the signs pointed to a reproductive process: the sexual encounter, the period of seclusion to allow for metamorphosis, the crimes, the enormous abdominal sac, the choice of an inaccessible place, and now the hunched posture, the air of concentration, and the trembling. What no one could predict was whether she would lay one egg or two, or several, or millions. The last hypothesis seemed the most likely, because her closest morphological affinities were with the insect world. But, when the furry silk of the sac began to split, what appeared was a single, white, pointed egg, the size of a watermelon. An enormous “Oohh . . .” of wonder ran through the multitude. Perhaps because every gaze was fixed on the slow extrusion of that fantastic pearl, the surprise was all the greater when another figure appeared beside the mutant: slowly it entered the circle of light, becoming entirely visible only when the egg had fully emerged and was balanced upright on that vertiginous cornice. It was Sarita Subercaseaux, with her big beehive hairdo, her pink, abundantly powdered face, her blue dress, and her little wedge-heeled shoes. How had she got up there? What was she trying to do? She was just inches from the creature, who, having now finished her labor, turned her eyeless face to look, as it were, at Sarita. They were the same size, and had the same aura of supernatural determination. A confrontation seemed inevitable, perhaps even a fight. The whole town held its breath. But something quite different happened. Shaking herself, as if waking from a dream, the creature stretched her wings as far as they would go, and with a single flap lifted herself a few yards into the air. With a wing beat she turned, with another she began to pick up speed, and then she was flying, like a pterodactyl, toward the stars, which were shining like mad diamonds for the occasion. She disappeared among the constellations, and that was that. Only then did the gazes of the crowd return to the roof of the theatre.
Sarita Subercaseaux was unperturbed by the departure of the mutant. Now she was alone with the egg. Moving very slowly, she raised one arm. She was holding something in her hand. An axe. Contradictory cries rose from the crowd. No! Don’t! Yes! Break it! Opinion was, of course, divided. No one wanted to subject our quiet town on the pampas to the unforeseeable consequences of a monstrous birth, and there was something precious about the mere fragility of an egg. And yet it seemed a pity to forgo the possibilities offered by that unrepeatable occasion.
But, when the movement of Sarita’s arm brought the axe clearly into view, it turned out to be not an axe but a book. And her intention was not to break the egg but to balance the book on top of it, delicately. In the legendary history of Pringles, the curious figure thus produced has come to symbolize the founding of the Municipal Library. 

