Sun City
By Caitlin Horrocks
They floated into the afternoon in their little stucco submarine, the blinds shut against the sunlight and the swamp cooler whistling on the roof. Bev sat on the couch, Rose knelt on the matted carpet, and in the artificial air the two women wrapped jewelry in tissue paper and placed it in egg cartons. Rose had had this idea, the egg cartons, on the plane to [REDACTED], and it had made her feel organized. In the aftermath of her grandmother’s death, at least there were omelettes to be made. When she realized just how much stuff her grandmother, Vera, had owned, and how little of it Bev wanted to keep, Rose should have come up with a new plan. Instead, they just kept eating eggs.
Cline, Bev’s guinea pig, wandered out from under the couch. “It’s Cline after Patsy Cline, you know,” Bev explained for the fifth time that week, as the album spun to silence on the stereo in the hallway. She heaved herself off the couch and over the child gate that kept Cline in the living room. Bev was majestically huge. The lift of her legs over the gate reminded Rose of dockyards, cranes, and I-beams, vast weight swinging dangerously free. If the house weren’t a concrete box laid flat on the dirt, the floors would shake. Rose, solid herself, envied this size; Bev looked armored, untouchable, as if nothing could come at her that wouldn’t bounce straight off. Vera’s death, the divesting of her possessions—at the end of the week, Bev would step over it all and disappear into some other hallway of her life.
“They eat these, you know,” Rose said, scooping Cline off the floor. “In South America.”
“That’s disgusting.” Bev swung herself back into the room, and Patsy Cline went walkin’ after midnight on the stereo.
Rose moved Cline’s front legs in a little dance. “It’s a delicacy. There’s a painting of the Last Supper in some church in 50657275 where Jesus eats guinea pig.”
Bev lifted Cline onto her shoulder. “No one’s going to eat you here, sweetie. We aren’t savages.”
“They roast them whole, eyes and toenails and everything.”
“Why are you telling me this?” Bev cuddled Cline defensively.
It was a real question, and Rose felt sheepish. “Sorry,” she said, and held up a pair of clip-on silver bird earrings, still on the plastic backing from the store. “Are you sure you don’t want these?”
“I don’t need Vera’s old costume crap. I’ve got enough junk of my own.”
Rose agreed with her there. The house bulged with it: cowboy figurines and Kokopellis and monotonous Southwestern art, cheerful brown children in brown pueblos. Bev’s own cheerful white grandchildren smiled from every wall, in frames shaped like hearts or guitars or kitten heads, the pictures cut off at awkward angles inside. “This pair’s real silver,” Rose offered.
“Take ’em for yourself. Take anything you like. We’ve been through this.”
“I wear pierced, not clip.”
“I noticed. Five times in the one ear, four in the other.” Bev peered more closely at the pair of birds. “She never wore those. Your mother sent them to her one Christmas. She hated them.”
“O.K., then. To the consignment store.” Rose tried to tuck them into an egg cup, but the plastic backing didn’t fit. The birds eyed her, wedged on top of the coiled necklaces.
Bev wore almost no jewelry, just a tiny gold cross with a diamond in the center. The back of the chain disappeared between two rolls of her neck and emerged on either side to end in a dainty point of light. It blinked at Rose from Bev’s oceanic chest.
Vera had lived in this house for eight years, a long quiet twilight filled with card games at the neighborhood clubhouse, a bowling league, classic-movie channels. Vera and Bev were both retired and hadn’t seemed to miss their jobs. They’d both been widowed, and made it known that they didn’t miss their husbands. Vera had been a secretary for a company that made plastic garbage cans. Bev had been an electrician. She kept her hair short and played softball and, in the photos Vera sent, wore overalls, until her weight ballooned and she switched to housedresses. They co-wrote their Christmas letters, trading off every paragraph to crack jokes about each other. They included pictures of themselves at the botanical garden, or at a Diamondbacks game, their full names—Vera Beasley and Beverly Morrison—written on the back. They filled the frame, these two old ladies, one large and one lean, smiling and pressing their cheeks close.
“Say hi to Bev,” Rose wrote in every note to her grandmother—postcards or thank-you notes for the five-dollar bills that still came on her birthday. Each time, she felt as if she were winking, their eyes meeting over the decades, seeing something true in each other.
Rose had once dated a woman who’d had a whole other life—a marriage, two kids. “You’ve always known who you were,” she’d said, when Rose had talked about high-school girlfriends and coming out to her mother in the car home after a tonsillectomy, still high on painkillers. Her mother had just pulled into a drive-through to buy her a milkshake and said, “Oh sweetie, I know. We’ve known for a while, haven’t we?”
“I envy that,” the old girlfriend had said. “It must have made life so much easier.”
“It’s never easy,” Rose had said, meaning life in general, or romance, or sex, or relationships. She’d realized only later that the woman had simply meant self-knowledge, and that had been easy for Rose; it had come plainly and she’d never wanted to deny it, never felt she could. Vera’s story was beautiful and sad to her—how long it had taken to find Bev, to find herself. It was a story that had allowed Rose to love her grandmother less complicatedly than her mother had been able to. After Vera died, of a heart attack, about as suddenly as a seventy-three-year-old woman can die, Rose flew in from [REDACTED] for the week, partly because she knew that her mother wouldn’t.
Rose rented a car at Phoenix Sky Harbor and drove to the house in Sun City. But when Bev showed her into Vera’s room there was only one person’s clothes in the closet, and a tightly made single bed with rough white pillowcases. “I’m across the hall,” Bev said, then peered more closely at whatever expression was on Rose’s face. “She didn’t actually die in here, you know. It happened at the hospital.”
Bev explained that she’d already paid for a booth at a local consignment store. Vera’s stuff had to be out of the house by the end of the week. “I’ll need another roommate,” Bev said. “The homeowner-association fees out here are something else.” Vera herself was a brown cardboard box on the dresser, dangerously like the pile of mail left sitting beside it, the sales pitches and charity pleas that had arrived after her death. “I suppose you’ll be taking this back to [REDACTED],” Bev said, holding it up for inspection.
“Unless you want it here,” Rose offered, carefully.
“You’re family and it’s yours. And why would I?”
Roommate. Rose had assumed in those Christmas letters that it was a euphemism. But maybe it wasn’t.
The other bedroom door had been closed since Rose arrived. Bev disappeared into it every night after dinner to play the most miserable country album Rose had ever heard. A woman’s lone howl crawled out from under the door, and Rose thought that if she listened hard enough she’d eventually hear Bev crying along. But Bev popped out each morning clear-eyed and so brusque that Rose couldn’t imagine just asking her, putting her question into words that Bev could laugh or take offense at or just deny.
Bev gave up on a tangle of necklaces and pushed the clot of metal across the coffee table. “I’m going for my swim,” she announced. “You said you’d call U-Haul about her furniture.” Rose picked at the clasps until she heard the sliding door to the back yard open and shut. Then she sneaked toward the kitchen window. She hunkered down, her arms in the sink, her head as close to the windowsill as she could get and still see the back-yard pool.
Bev couldn’t actually swim. She got from side to side somehow, but with wild movements of her arms and great gasps of breath. Sometimes she turned onto her back and shot a flute of water into the air as if from a whale’s blowhole. At the edge of the pool she pulled herself up with an elbow, the flesh of her upper arm spreading over the concrete. She caught her breath, practiced a stroke one-armed, hung on to the side, and kicked her legs. Put her face back into the water and blew delicate bubbles. Then she set off back across and it looked exactly the same, her strokes a broken windmill, her hips swivelling, water spraying three feet up on the concrete deck. It was the worst swimming Rose had ever seen, and it was the best entertainment of the past three days.
After fifteen minutes, Bev climbed out of the pool and Rose ran back to the living room, dropped to the carpet, and grabbed the necklaces. “Doesn’t look like you’ve made much progress,” Bev said, closing the sliding door behind her. A gulp of outside air came in with her, hot enough to reach Rose in the living room but already dissipating, a flame thankfully snuffed. Bev stood in her swimsuit, dripping a puddle onto the tiled floor. Rose shrugged. Bev tucked her towel around her waist. “The swimming. Can’t ever stop learning. That’s when you die. Anyway, you going to make us some dinner? Something other than eggs.”
Rose wanted to protest, but Bev was already down the hallway. Behind her bedroom door, the miserable country album started up again. A banjo twanged and the singer howled. Rose thought of her first girlfriend. She’d left lyrics in Rose’s locker, written out like poems. Some were about love, but most were about suicide. They’d put on a CD and smoke pot and try to feel more than their lives at the time had given them to feel. Rose listened and pretended she was the girl that her mother must have envisioned when naming her. She imagined the beauty, imagined the thorns. Dark things were the deepest. Every teen-ager knew that, gay or straight.
The singer in Bev’s bedroom shrieked as if something were biting her. “I’m going to the store!” Rose shouted.
Bev had the single song on repeat, too loud to hear or answer, and Rose thought that if she’d owned this album as a sixteen-year-old she might have hurt herself for real. 

Rose’s mother worked at the U.S.A. Dry Pea and Lentil Council trade group. She was the kind of admin who prided herself on being able to merge across five distribution lists, kick the vending machine in the right place to free a stuck soda, and fix a paycheck, all at 4:55 p.m. on a Friday. Iris had worked fifty weeks a year for thirty years and counting. One week of vacation she used to take Rose somewhere edifying, a national park or a historic battlefield. One week she went to Cabo San Lucas alone. There were plenty of men in her life, usually one at a time for a few months each, but they never went with her. Iris had used Rose as her excuse—single parenthood, the need to not let her little girl fall too hard for men who might not last. But Rose never fell too hard for anyone.
During Iris’s vacations, Rose stayed with Grandma Vera, who took her bowling and made cookies with ingredients seemingly left over from the last time Rose had visited, the brown sugar crusted into jagged points at the bottom of the bag.
“What does your mom do all week in Cabo? I mean, the same vacation, every year. If I had the money to go somewhere, I’d try to actually see something. I’d see the world.” Vera rolled the dough into balls as if she were annoyed with it, and pressed them onto the baking sheet so firmly that Rose knew they’d spread too much and burn. The first batch was already out of the oven, brown and crispy. Rose ate them anyway. “Your mother’s wasted her life,” Vera said. “She was a smart girl, and she’s wasted it with those pea people.”
Rose went very still, chewing her cookie as quietly as she could. She felt as if a wild animal were coming into view, a dangerous specimen that her mother knew but Rose rarely saw. She imagined the hushed voice of a nature-program narrator, excitedly announcing the find. The Old Vera had been a drinker. The Old Vera had been sharp-tongued, quick to insult, frequently cruel. Iris avoided talking about the angry version—she could acknowledge Vera’s newer self without quite wanting a relationship with it, or believing that she could manage one.
“Don’t you waste your life, too,” Vera used to tell her. “Not like your mother.”
She didn’t think she had, but she suspected Vera might: mid-twenties, tending bar, no college degree, no marriage, no children. Her mother had sent Vera the reviews of all the places Rose worked. They almost never mentioned the drinks, but her mother would find something, like “attentive service,” to run a pink highlighter across. They had all figured out a way to live around, rather than directly with, one another—the restaurant reviews mailed to Vera, the notes of congratulations that Vera then sent to Rose. It was a careful dance around one another’s loyalties. The most recent review was in a still sealed envelope, piled on Vera’s dresser with the rest of her mail. Rose was mentioned by name, as the “mixologist and mastermind behind the exquisitely crafted cocktails.” Rose stuck the review in the mirror frame and pretended that her grandmother had had the chance to read it. Looking at it, posted above the blank brown box, felt like both vindication and disappointment.
Whatever big goals Vera might have had for herself remained a mystery. She didn’t seem especially proud of any one ability or accomplishment, her family included. Moving in with Bev had seemed like an explanation that justified everything, misbehavior and devotion both. But if Vera had died alone, surrounded by Kokopellis and pictures of someone else’s grandchildren, with a roommate, a guinea pig, and an estranged daughter, then what was her excuse? How angry was her life, and how small, there at the end, if it was without love?
In late afternoon, the heat was every possible cliché: blast furnace, oven, kiln, campfire, house fire. Rose’s jeans were marshy before she’d even pulled out of the driveway, and at the Safeway she lingered as long as she could, buying food and a two-dollar pair of flip-flops, her feet suffocating in sneakers. Her mom called while she was stalling in the magazine aisle, actually reading Us Weekly instead of just flipping through the pictures of celebrity cellulite. “I still don’t hate myself,” Iris announced as soon as Rose picked up. “I’m still not coming.”
“O.K.”
“How are things?”
“Weird.”
“Is Bev there? Can you not talk?”
“I’m at the grocery store.”
“How are things going?”
“Weird. Did you know they didn’t—”
“My therapist says he thinks it’s fine if I don’t go. He said people grieve in their own way. Or don’t. I don’t know yet if I’m grieving. But I’m not coming down.”
“I wasn’t asking you to.”
“You don’t know what she was like.”
“No.” Rose put Us Weekly back on the rack. “I don’t. I really don’t.”
“I just wanted to check in. I have aerobics. I’m outside the studio right now.”
“Then go inside.”
“O.K., I’m going. I’m going,” she said, and hung up.
Rose looked for a circuitous route home, which wasn’t hard. Sun City was a giant suburban hamster maze. In one of the strip malls, she spotted a red sign that read “BevMo!” She turned into the parking lot. She could get Bev something with the name, a labelled bag or a business card. Maybe she would find it endearing. Maybe she’d tell Rose the truth. The store turned out to be a giant liquor emporium, and Rose felt foolish asking for just a bag, so she grabbed a bottle of vodka. There was no liquor in Vera’s house. Rose had looked.
At home, Bev had pulled all the dishes out of the cupboards, wrapped half of them in newspaper, and stuffed them in boxes on the counter. Rose had to put her three bags of groceries on the floor. “I thought you were hungry,” she said.
“I am.”
“Should we do this later, then?”
“I’ve already started. No point in putting them all back just to pull them out again.”
“Do you want me to help?”
“You don’t know what was whose.”
“I’m pretty hungry.”
“So order in, if you don’t think you can wait.” Bev’s hair was wet from the shower, and Rose realized how much longer it had got since all those pictures of her with a blunt cut, in overalls. It spread across her shoulders, the damp gray strands soaking the fabric, saturating the colors and pressing the pattern against her skin. The combination of dark-pink peonies, thin hair, and freckled skin looked vulnerable in a way that the rest of Bev didn’t.
“I brought you this.” Rose unfolded the BevMo! bag and snapped it in the air like a matador’s cape. “It reminded me of your name.” The bottle of vodka was in the glove compartment of the rental car.
Bev looked at it for a long time. She was holding a beige mug labelled “CardioFunRun ’89,” and Rose tried to imagine what possible incarnation of either Bev or Vera, in any decade, went running. “What’d you buy?”
“Nothing. Just the bag.”
“Too bad,” Bev said. She wrapped the FunRun mug in a piece of newspaper and then put it in the BevMo! bag, consignment-store bound. She picked up a plastic Hamburglar cup and tossed that in, too. Rose took the hint, and let her clatter around by herself until there was enough room to cook. The meal was as quick as she could make it—broccoli and instant mashed potatoes and two chicken breasts. She was just waiting on the chicken when her cell phone rang.
“I’m done with aerobics,” her mother announced. “Headed home.” Rose could hear the murmur of Top Forty radio, and pictured the dusty dashboard of Iris’s ancient Honda Civic, purple travel mug in the cup holder. “Can you talk?”
“No.” Bev was in the living room. The news was starting—sweeps for illegal immigrants—and Bev talked out loud to the television: “About time.”
“Bev’s there?”
“Yup.”
“Sorry I couldn’t talk earlier.”
The tick of the oven timer sounded hoarse as it slipped into its last minutes. Rose held the phone between her ear and her shoulder, and rummaged through the giveaways. At the bottom of a box there was a melamine plate with her own face on it, age eight. She was wearing a Care Bears sweatshirt and had fluffy bangs. She remembered her mom having the plates made, and her grandmother talking about how tacky it was that she’d worn a branded shirt for her school picture. “You should make those animals pay you,” she had said, “if you’re going to wear ’em across your chest.”
“You’re sure there’s nothing you want?” Rose asked. “There’s nothing I should be saving for you? Grandma had a lot of stuff.”
“For the millionth time, no. Let Bev take whatever she wants, take whatever you want, and get rid of everything else.”
“She doesn’t want anything.”
“What?”
“She—never mind. I’ll call you later.” Bev came back into the kitchen and poured them two glasses of water, straight from the tap. The water tasted so foul that the city distributed brochures with tips for drinking it. Add lemon slices, they recommended. Rose pulled a water bottle from one of the grocery bags and carried it with the plates into the living room. She ate off her own portrait, uncovering it bit by bit. There was Brave Heart Lion, from the Forest of Feelings. There was her toothy smile. She arranged the last of the potatoes into a white hat on her head and waited for Bev to apologize for just dumping this plate in a consignment box without even offering it to her. But Bev seemed determined to ignore her completely. They ate in silence until the news had dwindled to the dangers of leaving pets in hot cars and the weather—it would cool off later that week, the weatherman said, down to 109°. Bev ate with Cline in her lap, passing him shreds of broccoli. Finally, she put down her fork with a clank of finality and waited for Rose to look at her. When she did, Rose didn’t understand why Bev looked so angry. “Your grandmother knew, you know. She knew what you were,” Bev said.
“Excuse me?”
“She didn’t mind. I wanted you to know that. She forgave you.” Bev handed the last of the broccoli to Cline and then fingered her necklace, rubbing the little cross, the gold disappearing between her fingers.
“What I am?”
“She didn’t hate you, or anything.”
“For being a bartender?” Rose tried to joke.
“Oh, she hated that you were a bartender. Said you were wasting your life. Those stupid reviews your mother sent. But that’s not what I mean. You know what I mean.”
Rose ate the last few bites of potatoes, thinking something would come to her. Nothing did. She climbed over the guinea-pig gate and threw her plate into the sink so hard it shattered. 
She grabbed her bag and her two-dollar flip-flops and headed out the front door, Bev calling after her. It was dark and the air was cooler, but the heat still radiated from the sidewalk, birthing itself off the pavement. She sat in the rental car and opened the warm bottle of vodka. She thought about where she might go, what she might do, and decided that what she really wanted to do was drink so much that she shouldn’t drive anywhere. So she got out and started walking. She wandered the development’s endless curves, its wide streets and low, sunbaked houses. People went to bed early here, and the homes were dark and quiet. The cheap flip-flops rubbed her feet, and when she came to the golf course she cut across the seventh hole. She tried to take her shoes off, but the grass was deceptive—dyed green, it was nearly dead underfoot, brittle and so sharp it hurt to walk on. Rose sat in a sand trap and buried her feet to soothe them. The vodka was an obscure brand she’d decided to try, but it turned out there was a reason she’d never had it before. It tasted like a mouthful of dirty glass, and she wished for tonic—or vermouth, olive brine, and a shaker. She wanted to be back behind the bar, where the problems were always everybody else’s and all she had to do was listen. Or, better yet, she wanted someone to listen to her, a Rolodex of old customers who could be made to return the favor. She wished she weren’t between girlfriends, just to have someone to call. She’d always let go of people so easily; it had made her feel strong, but now it made her feel like Bev—careless, callous, inscrutable.
Her phone rang, and in trying to answer she got sand all over it. “Should I come down there?” her mother asked, her voice sounding choked. “Just tell me. You’d tell me if I should, right?”
“Do you want to? You should come if you want to.”
“Don’t give me a choice, because I’ll say no.”
“I can’t tell you you need to come.”
“It matters. Of course it matters. I don’t want to pretend like it doesn’t.”
“Mom.”
“I didn’t realize. . . I didn’t realize until . . . I should be there.”
“You don’t need to be. It’s fine.”
“I hated her. I hated her for a long time, and I can’t take that back.”
“I know.”
“I was picturing you doing to me what I’m doing to her. When I imagine you not caring, it’s the worst feeling in the world.”
“Mom. That won’t happen.”
“Your father’s the one. ‘If the two of you make each other that miserable, why keep doing this?’ he said. And that made so much sense.”
“Then don’t apologize for what made you happy.”
“But she’s family, Rose. Sometimes you aren’t supposed to be happy.”
“Maybe that’s not healthy.”
“I just— When you asked if there was anything I wanted? There is something. There was this necklace she used to wear. Real delicate, just a little gold cross with a diamond in it. She had it since I was little, when Daddy was still alive. I remember that. Have you seen it?”
Rose pressed her palm into the sand as if she could leave some kind of mark: her fingerprints on a golf course, her face on a plate. The phone was sweaty in her hand.
“If you see it, can you take it for me? I don’t think she would have gotten rid of it. It’ll be in the house somewhere.”
“I’m sure it is,” Rose said. She pressed her feet deeper, and the sand stuck to the raw places. She could see the dark lines in the moonlight, sandal straps of blood and grit.
As Rose opened the door, she steeled herself for Bev’s awful sad song, but there was only silence. The swamp-cooler air hissed through the sealed house, racing out the open door. Rose shut it behind her and stood still, breathing deeply, sobering up slightly in the cold. There was a strange scrabbling noise somewhere, as if Cline had grown to enormous size. Rose kicked off the flip-flops, wincing at the fresh blood between her toes, and went padding through the house. She found Bev in Vera’s room, lying on the bed. The hem of her peony housedress was hitched above her knees, her body curled tightly above her pale, dimpled legs. She was crying. Cline wandered over the coverlet down by Bev’s feet, with no interest in comforting his mistress, or no idea how. The Hamburglar cup was on the nightstand, full of soda. Whiskey and Coke, Rose recognized, lifting it and smelling. Bev looked up at her, and Rose felt suddenly powerful. Bev took one of the pillows from under her head and held it across her face. “She was a good friend to me,” Bev said. “I know she could be sharp, but she was a good friend.”
Rose pulled the pillow off and dropped it on the floor, but Bev grabbed the other one and pressed it more tightly over her head. “I never did,” she said. “I never slept here before. In this bed.”
Rose set the vodka bottle down on the nightstand and sat beside her; the mattress creaked. She reached out and touched the necklace with a single finger, the pendant so slight that she couldn’t help but touch Bev, too, her warm skin beneath. Bev flinched, and lifted the pillow long enough to take the Hamburglar cup. She tried to drink flat on her back and coughed, liquid spilling into the gullies of her neck and running down the gold chain. She pushed the cup back into Rose’s hand and replaced the pillow. “You should ask me,” she said, her voice muffled. “Just ask me what you want to know.”
“Was she happy?” The question came to Rose as a kindness, a way of easing Bev into greater confessions, but as she asked it felt like something she needed very much to know.
“I don’t know. I wish I did.” Bev curled on her side, then lifted the pillow enough to reach for the cup again. “Ask me if I’m happy.”
“Are you happy?”
“No.”
Rose took the drink from Bev’s hand. “You’re cut off. Robble robble.” She set it on the nightstand, drunk enough herself that the liquid sloshed in the cup.
“I should have said something. I wish we’d— But she could be so hard. You know how hard, your grandma.” Her fingers reached for the cup and closed around air. “Give it back.”
“Where did it come from?”
“My bedroom. Vera didn’t drink. Said she used to like it a little too much.”
Rose could feel Bev’s warmth against her back. “That’s what my mom always said. I don’t know. I didn’t see that part of her. She’d stopped before I came along.”
“You never really know. The things a person doesn’t want to show you.”
“Even the things they do,” Rose said, and she was drunk enough that it felt very wise, but it still sounded helpless. Tucked in a corner of the mirror was a snapshot of Bev and Vera at the zoo. She wondered if Bev had noticed it, if it made her feel better or worse. She wished it were framed. She wished there were a heart drawn around it in lipstick, something irrefutable, something Bev could see and know that she’d been seen after all. The brown box sat mutely beneath it.
Bev braced her arm on Rose’s thigh and worked herself upright, leaning back against the headboard. “I took—” She gripped the necklace. Then she noticed Rose’s feet. “That has to hurt. You should wash them.”
“I will. Later.”
But the moment was gone. Bev took the Hamburglar cup again, and Rose didn’t stop her. “I didn’t want to tempt her,” Bev said. “But I’m not a woman that likes to do without.”
“I like that about you,” Rose said, honestly. Bev took the bottle of vodka from the nightstand and poured some into the cup. “That’s going to taste disgusting,” Rose said.
“I don’t care.”
“I care. Shut up,” she said, as Bev opened her mouth to protest. “Let me make you something.”
She got up and walked unsteadily across the hall to Bev’s room, through the open door. There were more pictures of grandchildren on the dresser, a music stand, and an accordion. The bed was unmade, the sheets pink with a nubbly chenille coverlet. A cardboard box filled with bottles had been dragged halfway out of the closet. Rose hefted the whole thing up, and then heard the CD player hissing on top of the dresser. It was cued up, paused at the beginning of a track, the disk whirling, waiting. She pressed Play. Blood calls to blood, calls to the wound, the singer howled. Bones long to be broken.
In the kitchen, Bev had cleaned up the supper dishes and the giveaways. Rose set the box on the counter with a satisfying clank. She pulled out every bottle, seeing what she had to work with. Some were nearly crusted shut, but she wrenched them open, one by one. She pulled every bottle of juice, every soda, every can of frozen concentrate from the fridge. She pulled every glass, every mug left in the cupboards and placed them all on the counter. She began to pour.
The sliding door opened and shut behind her. She looked out the sink window and saw Bev with Cline under one arm, Vera’s box under the other. Rose worried that they were all going in, but Bev set the box down gently on the patio table, and Cline on the concrete rim. She turned on the pool lights and then leaped into the water with a splash that hit Cline like a tsunami. He stayed loyally put. Bev threw herself across the water, over and over. At the far side of the pool, she paused, her housedress ballooning around her. She looked like a magnificent pink squid. The cross glittered at her neck. Rose opened the sliding door. The heat rushed in like wind. Bev had opened her bedroom window, and the sad song was circling the back yard.
“You can have it,” Rose said.
“What?” Bev gasped, out of breath.
“You can have it.”
Bev shook her head, confused, droplets flying from her hair. She pointed at her ears. “Water,” she said, and stuck her index finger in like popping a balloon. “What are you making?” she called.
Rose held up her finger, meaning “wait,” although in a loud bar it would just mean “one,” and you never told customers to wait. She chose two glasses and carried them out, jewel-bright, showy, with floating, separated layers. If you looked closely, you could see the layers already collapsing together. The heat wrapped around her, a living, tireless thing, laughing at the dark. Sweat sprang from her face, her neck, under her arms. She stood at the pool’s edge, and Bev surged toward her. “Get your feet in here,” she said, and Rose put the drinks on the concrete, rolled up her jeans, and sat, legs dangling.
She offered Bev a glass. As Bev reached for it with her right hand, her left slipped off the pool edge and grabbed at Rose’s leg, her grip urgent. Rose took Bev’s weight, buoyed by the water, and Bev rested for a moment, hooking her fingers in the damp rolled cuff of Rose’s jeans. They looked at her feet, the blood and sand lifting off into the blue and drifting away. Then Bev pushed off, the water churning as she threw herself toward the wall a few feet away. She turned and looked back at Rose, her drink held safe and high above the water. It looked as if Bev were proposing a toast, and Rose raised her glass.
“Medicine,” she offered, and they drank, as if it might be some kind of cure. 

