Oubliette
By David Long
Her mother used to call her “a chip off the old Chilcott,” but then wasn’t it perfectly obvious that she was Peter Chilcott’s daughter? Her eyes were his eyes, stone gray, protruding. Her stringy torso was his, his long-legged amble. By ninth grade she was already five-ten, en route to six-one. She had his expressive fingers, his lips. His temperament. “You’re like me,” he told her once, when it was clear that she’d follow in his professional footsteps. “You think you’re invisible—you watch people and forget that they see you back.” (Her father made documentary films that had earned him festival prizes, an Emmy, an Oscar nomination. His film “Warwick” and Frederick Wiseman’s “Titicut Follies” had both come out in 1967, when Nathalie was seven, and the two were often spoken of in the same breath.)
But it was just as obvious that she’d never possess her mother’s blatant prettiness, her thirst for glamour, for self-decoration. (Charcoal eyeliner, the same stalwart studs in her ears every day, and three noisy wrist bangles—that was the extent of it for Nathalie.) She also lacked her mother’s darker talents—for recalling slights or suspecting other women of harboring “agendas” or “ulterior motives.” If loving her semi-illustrious father was as automatic as the heartbeat in her chest, loving her mother was . . . well, she pretended. Sometimes her mother pretended back, sometimes not.
It wasn’t always like this, was it? When she was little? Hadn’t her mother scooped her up, summer mornings, driven her to the beach at Nantasket, slathered on the Coppertone, and waded out into the glittery waves with her? Hadn’t they stopped on the way home and dawdled in Friendly’s air-conditioning with frappes, like any regular mother and daughter? Hadn’t they held down the fort together when Peter was out of town, Nathalie sharing the big bed with her mother, who’d say, winter nights, “You’re my hot-water bottle, Nattie!,” or teach her silly songs like the one about not eating animal crackers in bed? Other times, both of them lying back in the semi-dark, her mother had told tales about the foster homes where she’d been raised. What Nathalie realized only in retrospect was that her mother had never rubbed her nose in the differences between their two fates back then, had never said, “You’ve got no idea how good you have it,” or, “I didn’t get things handed to me on any silver platter.” No, that tone of voice came later.
At twenty-three, six years after bolting from the last of the foster homes, up in Lowell, her mother had happened to get a job waitressing at a chowder house that Peter Chilcott frequented. “Your mother put her whammy on me,” Nathalie’s father said by way of explanation, if he was in a teasing mood. Sometimes he called it “her wiles.” Nathalie didn’t know these words at first, but even so they made her shiver; later, when she did, she hated the idea of her brilliant father being “entrapped” or “snared”; later still, she understood that it was all just code for goings on between her parents that she’d just as soon not know about.
But what had her mother thought she was getting in Peter? He was boyishly intense, talented, but she may have taken him for her ticket into blue-blood [REDACTED], too. The Chilcotts did qualify, in theory. Aaron Chilcott and his wife, Lydia, had stepped off the Mary & John onto Dorchester Neck in 1630, and Nathalie and her father had once passed a spring morning perusing the King’s Chapel Burying Ground, off Beacon Hill, eventually locating the Chilcott slate with its winged skull. The gravestone stood slantwise, most of Aaron’s side broken off and lying face down in leaf mulch. Nathalie couldn’t keep from picturing what was below it. The remains. The [REDACTED] clothes—not textbook illustrations but the very fabric, moldering just under her feet. That her whole existence depended on a brief transaction between the group of bones on the left and the group of bones on the right struck her as strange beyond words. By the time Nathalie was born, the Chilcotts had scattered to the winds. She had grown up spectacularly devoid of extended family: no sisters, no brothers, no philandering uncles or frazzled gin-swilling aunts, no boy cousins or girl cousins, no doting Grams and Gramps.
Old girlfriends of her mother’s sometimes blew through South Weymouth between entanglements, bedding down in the spare room for a week or more, smoking lavishly, leaving behind grown-woman debris, including blurts of story in which her mother was unrecognizable, and on which, if Nathalie inquired, she’d shed no light whatsoever. But, as a couple, her parents appeared virtually friendless. More and more, it seemed, her mother would fly at her father without warning—accusing, threatening, begrudging him his work, his public life. “You’ve gotten so piggish with your time, Peter.” She said things like that; she said that it made her sick the way he always wanted to be elsewhere, the way he treated her like some chippie he could take or leave. Yet, the next instant, she’d gripe that he wasn’t more famous, that his films hadn’t made her stinking rich. By this time, he expected her to be unreasonable or unfair, but, increasingly, she seemed unhinged. Often, now, he didn’t fight back, only turned his head away, wiping his hand slowly down his long face as if wanting to erase his own identity, Nathalie thought, then realized that this was how you closed the eyes of a dead man.
When her father wasn’t around, her mother might administer sharp little cheek slaps, or get this cut-eyed look and call her Miss Smarty. But one fall afternoon—it was 1974, her freshman year of high school, Nathalie guilty of “lip” or “guff”—her mother summoned her up to the attic, then clapped the door shut, and not only threw the bolt but kicked a wooden wedge into the crack and pounded it home with a mallet she must have fetched from the garage in advance. Minutes later, Nathalie heard the car door’s whump, then the keening of the engine as her mother sped off down McCandlish, refusing to shift until she was good and ready.
“Unfuckingbelievable,” Nathalie said aloud. 
Then said it again, liking the sound. The thing was, she did believe it. By the one-hour mark, the heat had gone out of her revenge-plotting and righteous self-pity. She worked at the Phillips-head screws around the housing of the attic fan until the tip of her penknife blade snapped off. Then, Plan B, she strained onto tiptoes and pitched her voice out the louvres at the gable peak. But it was a windy late-October day. No one came. She made a pallet of old coats and garment bags, and lay, arms behind her head, listening to air sieving in at the eaves, the wood-on-wood sound of the roof trusses. Before long she was picturing this episode as a short film, “Girl in Attic”—except, of course, she wasn’t the pathetic teen-ager sucker-punched by her own mother; she was the camera-wielder, preserving events for the record. Still, make no mistake, she was freaked. There was no denying that this stunt of her mother’s had led them into uncharted waters.
It was after dark when her father got home—mercifully, he was in town that week, not on location. So, she knew, he’d be down in the kitchen, mini-TV going, stirring a Dewar’s with his index finger. She waited another half hour for him to come upstairs, within earshot. Then light flooded the attic’s short stairwell, and his headful of curls rose into view. “Nat?” he said, squinting. “What on earth?”
“No tears,” she instructed herself.
He escorted her to his Wagoneer. They drove to [REDACTED]’s, slid into their favorite booth, ordered the jumbo fried clams, a Narragansett, a cherry Coke. Waiting, he apologized for her mother—it was hardly the first time. But instead of saying, “This too shall pass,” or, “You just can’t take her bait, Nat. Don’t you see?,” he simply gazed at her, chin propped on fist, blinking, seemingly at a loss—which was arguably the scariest part of all.
On the way home, he asked if she’d ever heard the word “oubliette.”
“I bet it’s French,” Nathalie answered.
He said it was indeed, but wouldn’t say what it meant, knowing that she’d look it up the instant they got home.
Flash forward eighteen months: her parents had split up, her father had become “the custodial parent,” life was proceeding. Or would have, except that suddenly everything needed to be rethought. As it turned out, it was her mother who’d tumbled into the oubliette. She wasn’t simply “capricious” or “difficult” or “emotionally unsteady.” She was sick with [REDACTED]’s disease. Typically, people noticed the tremors and weakness first, they were told, but the dementia could set in before the shaking began. Within the privacy of her own skull, Nathalie’s mother had been blowing circuits for months, years possibly. And, they learned, [REDACTED]’s offered no swift mercy—Woody Guthrie had famously survived two decades of it, in and out of psych hospitals, incrementally losing control of his hands and legs, his voice. What was her father supposed to do, annul the divorce? No, but he couldn’t desert her, either. He put the South Weymouth house on the market, used the last of his Guggenheim money to lease a ground-floor apartment in Watertown for her, saw to the labyrinthine medical paperwork. When the house sold, he and Nathalie moved to a loft in a newly redeveloped neighborhood along Fort Point Channel. She had a year of high school left; every morning, she reverse-commuted in a two-hundred-dollar used Falcon wagon peppered with surfing decals.
They visited her mother at least once a week, one or both of them, depending. That her parents could now talk back and forth like civilized people seemed a black joke, but her mother clearly had no resources left for resentment or score-settling now. It was the solo trips that Nathalie dreaded. “Don’t be phony,” her father counselled her beforehand. “Let the old stuff be. Just give whatever you can give, Nat.” So that’s what she tried to do, stick to the here and now. Whom she’d heard from, which part of her car had burned out, rusted through, sprung a leak, and so on. Sounding upbeat, but not so upbeat that it set off her mother’s crap detector. A few times, despite her mother’s old disdain for hearing her father “go on and on” about his work, Nathalie risked telling her tremoring, strange-eyed mother about hypothetical films of her own. She heard herself babbling at times, but silences were awful—she could feel the air congealing around them like clear gelatin. Even now, she half expected her mother to get that look and say, “It’s always the two of you, you and him, cutting me out.”
The visits went better when Nathalie kept moving. She worked around the galley kitchen, fixing one-serving casseroles or baking molasses cookies or lemon bars or blond brownies, her mother ensconced in the recliner by the sunny window, dozing off, reviving, or not. Some days, the meds sank her into a sleep viscous enough to quell the shakes, and then Nathalie would take a putty knife and some goo remover to the worst of the built-up crud on the countertops, the stove burners, the floor tiles—which were as gummy as flypaper—before writing a note and slipping out.
Nathalie’s last year at B.U., her mother had to surrender the apartment. Even with nurse visits and meals delivered, she could no longer be trusted there alone. She lied about falling, yet had bruises, down the side of her face or around her hipbone, eggplant-colored. Next it was cracked ribs, a broken wrist. They relocated her to a long-term-care facility in Framingham. Another year passed. She weighed a hundred pounds, then ninety-two—her flailing limbs burned more calories than she managed to consume, despite all the chocolate malts in their no-spill cups. When she talked now, Nathalie couldn’t always figure out what she was saying. Even when her words were intelligible, they sometimes made no sense. Increasingly, her mother ignored her questions. Eventually, even the cajoling, sunny-faced speech therapist could get nothing out of her. It was too hard, too exhausting—and what did she have left to say? She stared back at them with the eyes of the long-imprisoned. Then, in the dregs of one November night, as she slept, her heart simply quit. She was D.N.R.
Nathalie was out of school by then, apprenticing at the studio, living at her father’s loft again for the time being. He was up on Penobscot Bay for the week, doing legwork for the new project, so she was the one who woke and took the call and sat listening, nodding at the dark room. When she hung up the phone, she squinted over at the time. Two-fifty-one. Nothing needed doing until morning, she guessed. Why wake her father? She went out into the main room, eased up the blinds, and stood at the dark window in her nightshirt. A dry listless snow was falling, barely anything. Across the water, the last planes angled into Logan, the gaps between them lengthening until there was only the sweep of the tower light. Relieved of an awful weight was how she felt, then wondered why she didn’t feel guiltier about reacting this way. If her father had been there, he might’ve said, “Nat, you can’t help what you feel. The rest of it just isn’t in focus yet. You’ll see.” Instead, she was on her own. She was freezing, she realized, forearms and bare legs all goose-bumped. But she didn’t move. Outside the glass, the streets were vacant, the sky was vacant: it was that strange hour belonging to no one. Eventually, a truck would come rattling down Wheelock’s gantlet of potholes, a car door would chuff, and the world would go on—not where it had left off but on the other side of this nothing time. And when it did, though she couldn’t quite see it yet, Nathalie would begin the never-ending task of not forgetting her mother. 

