Starlight
By Ann Beattie
MRS. NIXON JOINS THE FINAL OFFICIAL PHOTOGRAPH
I said, “Oh, Ollie, we’re always glad to see you, but I don’t think we need any pictures now.”
Dick refutes me. “Oh, come on, Ollie. Take a few shots.”
Dolly gets up and suggests that we link arms. We form a line, and Ollie takes his place in front of us. I know that if I looked over my shoulder I’d see Dick smiling, seeming amused and in control, and, really, I couldn’t take that. Julie’s at her wit’s end; Dolly feels as if she’d been drawn into a whirling tornado that may eventually put her down in safe territory, but right now she can’t escape it. Julie’s been in tears. I have, too. But what happens if you’re a Rockette and you have a cold? You go out there onstage and take your position, that’s what. A bit of medicine to bolster you would make sense. But, medicine or not, out you go. Out we go, indeed! When have we not rushed ahead, despite any protests made to Dick? You smile the family smile, and you try to get through the minutes, the seconds, until the helicopter takes off, and if people want to photograph that, which they no doubt will, they’ll see nothing but a machine, rising, flying, becoming smaller, disappearing. They’ll read a lot into that.
Right now, though, our hearts are breaking. They’ve already broken. If it has to be done, it has to be done. Ollie’s been here for all of it, so of course he’s here for the final photograph of the Nixons in the White House. Then we must speak to the staff. They did their best to serve proficiently and politely, but forget manners, forget politely, they really cared—they have to know that it didn’t go unnoticed. We’re not the only ones under examination here, yet we’re the ones whose picture is being taken for posterity. Dick’s secretary, Rose Mary, hasn’t been asked to sit at her desk for a final picture. Haldeman and Ehrlichman are long gone—otherwise, they’d be standing with us. Maybe the last picture shouldn’t be posed, a perfect reminder of what we looked like in positions we never took, as if we were a chorus line or paper dolls. David could be consoling Julie. Eddie could be doing the same for Dolly, drawing her head into his chest, as if he were a barrier and nothing was actually happening on the other side of it.
The plane will transport us. [REDACTED] is there waiting for us, earlier in time, still young. And Dick: what is he thinking? That we have to be a united family until the last, united for posterity, acting like the cross in front of the vampire, warding off evil and repelling anyone who wants to transgress against us. Because we are the Nixons, like a lineup of suspects: that’s the man who said that the war had to continue; he’sthe one who tried to tell the nation what was best. And his wife, why isn’t she looking at the camera? Why isn’t she trying harder? She went mute long ago. Her younger daughter became the family spokesperson, while the older one retreated. The husbands . . . they are the husbands. Yet I find myself yearning toward them, toward the possibility they represent. Maybe David or Eddie can change the way the photograph looks. Is there a chance that Eddie will leap out of the picture, mess up the choreography, elicit a real expression from Dick? Who would have thought he’d bring in Ollie for this moment, as if it were just another day, as if Ollie were going to be here tomorrow for breakfast, and Dick could have him photograph Julie eating her muffin and David drinking his coffee? Dolly having her orange juice, Eddie downing his boiled egg? That would certainly surprise the nation: the Nixons still in the White House, enjoying a last breakfast. From left to right—no political joke intended—Edward Cox (egg, toast); Mrs. Cox (orange juice only, thank you); David Eisenhower (English muffin, scrambled eggs, milk, coffee, tomato juice); Mrs. Eisenhower (coffee, as a prop); and me. I’d have to be photographed with something, since a slender First Lady arouses suspicion, but who in my position would be able to eat? Talk about my weight all you want, but answer me this: would you want to eat? And Dick: the full breakfast, starting with an English muffin, ending with a slice of melon and a lime wedge? Would he dare to pick up the lime and let people see his hand tremble?
But tomorrow morning is a lifetime away, and what follows is farther away still. La Casa Pacifica, [REDACTED], the clock turned back—truly turned back; there are three more hours in which to accomplish things, three more hours in which to avoid errors that might damn you forever. What to do with all that luxurious time? Dick gave me a clock once and I loved it, but I didn’t know that every time it ticked the future would become inevitable. We’re all lingering on the edge of time, doing what’s expected of us, trying to make the best of things.
Just a minute before the photograph, Dick’s valet, Manolo, came in with the dogs, who wanted what they always want: fun, food, attention. The dogs have beenbrought in so many times to be the recipients of our love, but there are moments when dogs are extraneous, when they might as well be arrows, or whatever signifies our end, including the pop of a flashbulb like an assassin’s bullet.
Picture taken, what happens? We escape the frame and do what, exactly? Wait inside the helicopter? How much longer before we get to the West Coast? How much longer before we can attempt to resurrect our lives? After the last photograph, how much can anything done for future generations matter? We can only hope that Dolly and Julie will have normal lives and not have to pose anymore. Their husbands—let’s be honest—are no help at all.
You occupy your own distinct space in a photograph. If you don’t, the photographer explains the necessity of standing this way or that, politely tucks a wisp of hair behind your ear, asks you to turn a bit to the side. Then, just when everyone is self-conscious and anxious, he calls for another picture. A sincere smile is requested, one last time. Everyone in the lineup matters, ostensibly. Dick and I know otherwise.
MRS. NIXON REACTS TO “RN: THE MEMOIRS OF RICHARD NIXON”
Dick writes amusingly, with a sense of what makes a good story: “During our trips to 4368696e61 and summits in [REDACTED], Pat showed her mastery of the art of personal diplomacy. She shook hands with dancing bears at the circus, drew children to her in schools and hospitals, visited communes, factories, department stores, and danced a step with the Bolshoi Ballet school.”
 
I can’t say the same about him: his awkwardness was always part of any encounter, and his smile was too intense. People thought his smile was insincere because it was such a smile. He was more than a little inept. It made him nervous to smile, so, once he started, he either kept that smile plastered on his face or erased it immediately. He mistrusted his body. He was self-conscious about leaning in too far, about looking at the camera or not looking. With his brothers dead, was it ever appropriate for him to smile? He was caught between doing the natural thing, smiling at a bluebird singing in a tree, or a plate of freshly baked cookies, or a circus bear, it was all the same—he was caught between smiling spontaneously and being inappropriate, because they were dead and he was alive, and his mother’s eyes judged him like a camera lens, long after she was dead herself.
BROWNIE
What exactly do you do if your husband brings home a dog? Checkers was a gift, as we all know, but in the case of Brownie Mr. Nixon found the dog wandering around the property of his [REDACTED] home one night, when he went out to take a walk, and then there it was, trotting in the front door.
“Oh, Dick, it must belong to somebody.”
“Well, we don’t know. It might belong to some people down the road, but we don’t have their number. You know what I mean: we don’t have their telephone number. Not the sort of number I keep on the Rolodex, it goes without saying. Fine to exchange a greeting, but what do you do with phone numbers except let them mount up—business cards, little pieces of paper? Before you know it, you’ve got the numbers for a lot of people who could be anybody, and why would you call them? We could let the dog wander. We could do that, but we don’t know that it wouldn’t get into the road and find itself in trouble. Is it wrong to have the dog in the house for this one night? Well, maybe it is, but it isn’t right to let a dog go on its way when it might be killed. You look for a tag, or something. But nobody took the time to put a tag on this dog, and my point is, that tells you something. It could have been dumped here by some kids from the city, who got tired of it and drove it all the way out to the suburbs, just to get rid of it. They see these big houses, and they think, Oh, they’re a bunch of bleeding-heart liberals who’ll take in a dog on a cold night. Some people do that—invite street people in—and some of them end up killed. Cold out there. I’m going to fix a cup of tea. Would you like some?”
“Let me do it.”
“You remember that trip we took, all your shopping with Mrs. Gorbachev, and the way the press didn’t want to talk about anything else? Damn fools. Why, you got the groceries all your life! Mrs. Gorbachev was told to go buy groceries that day, you can bet on that. If they’d told her to put on her bathing suit and take a swan dive from the highest spire on the Kremlin, she would have done that, too. Groceries! They didn’t want her taking you shopping for expensive clothes and so forth, because there were none to be had. I suppose they could have airlifted some in from [REDACTED]. Had a fashion show for you ladies at the hotel. The Arabs do that to keep the women happy.”
“Dick, I don’t think this is the right time for us to have a dog.”
“Is there a right time? I suppose it’s always better when you’re young. What isn’t? Though maturity does have its advantages. Things get clearer. You take action, because what else are you going to do? Sit around and wait for the grandchildren to pay a visit? They do, and it’s good of them, but you know what I mean.”
“Dick, if we feed the dog it’s going to want to stay.”
“Dog’s in the other room. Doesn’t seem so interested in food, but we might give him a bowl of water.”
“I’ll use this bowl.”
“We had some great times with the dogs, didn’t we? Oh, not everybody understood. A dog’s an expense, that’s for sure. But you see the delight in your children’s eyes—what can you do? Some parents would say No! Walk away. But we didn’t do that.”
“Dolly called this afternoon. She’s going to come for a visit.” 
“Julie will come, too. Won’t she?”
“I’ve only heard from Dolly. She’s bringing Christopher.”
“Boy likes to run around. A boy and his dog. Well, this can be our dog. Would be a good photo opportunity. Christmas card, and all that. Get the neighbors to come on over, crowd around and smile, give them a photograph of them with the President and his family, informal, something they can keep for posterity. I got a letter last week saying I was the most misunderstood President of the past fifty years. Where the fellow got our address I don’t know, but it was nice of him. Got to make a note to have Monica write him back. Send him one of those bookmarks with the Presidential seal.”
“Dick, what do you think the dog is doing?”
“I guess I could ask him. It’s a he, I saw. He was peeing against our tree.”
“Here’s the bowl for—”
“Don’t you bend over, I can do that. Is the heat on high under that teakettle? I don’t notice it whistling.”
“The whistling kettle rusted. We have to replace it. Julie said she had an extra one she’d bring us.”
“I wonder if David will come with her. Kids will, but David might be working. I don’t know what he really thought some of the time, when things were bad and so forth, but he shows up a lot more than Eddie does. Eddie said some things he shouldn’t have, but that’s water over the dam. Been a fine husband and father. You hope they will be, but you don’t know when they marry so young. Here’s the bowl. Looks like a pretty good one. Of course, we wouldn’t have bad ones. What would be the point? Some might say, ‘Well, we never clear out our old bowls, chipped or dented or whatnot,’ but here in the Nixon household Mrs. Nixon keeps watch over the bowls and replaces them when there’s reason to. Of course, Mrs. Nixon is thrifty, which is a virtue not valued enough these days. Glad to know Julie has an extra kettle. All the neatniks and recyclers and those sort would be happy, too. Keeping the landfill down. All those issues they think about. Drinking water. Well, if you boil water it’s safe, but try telling that to some people. They have big families; they don’t have time to boil water. We boil water and we’re doing our part as citizens, which we’ve always done, though at times we’ve been misunderstood.”
“Here’s your tea, Dick.”
“Some say the President has people who write all his speeches, tell him his own thoughts, but that wouldn’t be right. I used so much pencil lead I could have drawn a line down the Great Wall. Automatic-signature thing was helpful, but there are those who wouldn’t even notice, just want some indication that they were heard. I can understand that. You express your thoughts, you want a response. You’re not writing to Stalin—you’re writing to the President of [REDACTED]. In the old days, Rose Mary would send off an immediate response if I flagged something. She’d jump to it, just as if ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ were being played and she were in the bleachers. She had special seating, of course, because she was part of the President’s team. Took some criticism for it, too, but she understood politics. That’s one of the things I respect. Loyalty. Remind me to speak to Monica about answering some of the mail. Piles up, otherwise. Not enough time to do everything. Other Presidents understand. You know, the Johnsons never did have us to the White House, but we weren’t petty that way. You know as well as anyone that we weren’t; we talked about those lists, and you stood in the receiving line how many times? Bet you didn’t keep count, did you? You should have, because you deserve credit for standing there, shaking hands, no matter what. Lady Bird was always nice to you, but he was a different character. Spoke to me from his bed that time I visited the White House, and never did get up. Then again, I’ve heard he talked to some people while sitting on the toilet. Showed the nation his scar, where he had his gallbladder removed. Very involved in himself. Lady Bird wouldn’t disagree. Her name was what? What did you call Lady Bird?”
“Lady Bird. Her name is Claudia Alta Taylor.”
“Lady Bird’s just as good.”
Mr. Nixon took his tea into the living room, where the dog lay by the fire. The dog looked up.
“You’re not having tea?” Mr. Nixon said.
“No. I think it’s about time to turn in.”
“You might watch some television? Not that I care, but if you do, let me know whether Clinton got himself in any trouble today.”
“Dick, why don’t you take the dog out and see if anyone is looking for it?”
“Brownie, here? Well, they might go looking, but unless they’re invited to come in and sit by the fire and have a brandy—I’m only kidding. Well, they could come in, and if there’s hot water they could have a cup of tea, too, and we could be like those people in [REDACTED], having a cuppa. Harmless. Or is it?”
Mrs. Nixon held the railing, walking upstairs. He wanted her to watch the news, but she was tired. The next day, she’d make some inquiries about who might have lost the dog. At least it had cheered him up a little.
She used Elizabeth Arden cosmetics, but washed her face with Ivory soap. It didn’t lather too much—just the right amount. With some of the new soaps, she felt like one of the witches in “Macbeth,” urging the fire to burn and the cauldron to bubble. She realized that that was a strange thing to leap to mind, when she was only going to wash her face. She did sometimes think of “Macbeth” and meant to reread it. She used no moisturizer. She brushed her teeth before going to bed, and again upon awakening. Her hair was always limp in cold weather—it didn’t have any bounce. She didn’t know what to do about that, except put on a scarf.
The loneliness was like sea glass. It was attractive, sometimes. But it could also retain sharp edges. She had sometimes looked for sea glass on the beach in San Clemente, and her housekeeper Fina had cautioned her about picking it up, because the edges could cut you even when the rest had been worn smooth. Who knew then that the glass-gathering would be good exercise later—lifting little things out of the sand so that her bad hand became accustomed to opening and closing normally? Bird feathers held no interest, shells rarely caught her attention. . . . Sometimes she still drew something in the sand with her toe; sometimes she used a stick and made a quick sketch that the water would wash away. That was back in [REDACTED], of course. Their Elba. After they’d settled in, Fina and Manolo had gone away.
The loneliness was very much like sea glass, if sea glass could be a state of mind. Loneliness was always smooth. Like sea glass, it had a sheen. She could almost feel it, close her fingers around it, but she was exhausted, and there was no beach outside, so she only rested her hands on top of the covers. It weighed on you and exhausted you. The strokes had contributed, but really the problem was loneliness.
Maybe they should keep the dog.
MRS. NIXON’S THOUGHTS, LATE-NIGHT WALK, SAN CLEMENTE
The Pacific is a grand ocean. It’s oh so pretty to look at. He thinks so, too. We’ve taken many a walk here, but his leg’s so bad he still can’t walk. He’s been asleep since just after dinner.
Oh, it will work out. It will be all right. The doctors have operated, and if only he follows their instructions, which I know he will, now that he has time to take care of himself, it will get better fast. Even in this darkness, I can see the little whitecaps. Before we were married, he used to take walks and think of me. He called me Miss Pat and sent me a note: “Miss Pat, I took the walk tonight and it was swell, because you were there all the time. Why? Because a star fell right in front of me, the wind blowing thru the tops of the palms.” Then all these years passed, and I got my code name, Starlight. We all got fictional names. I wonder if the bestowal made us just a little bit different. Characters in a story that was being made up as it went along. Starlight reminds me of “Star light, star bright, first star I see tonight. . . .” And there’s one up there tonight: one little star shining bright. People everywhere must be making a wish. Maybe Dolly sees it outside her window in [REDACTED].
Scarf double-knotted to keep the breeze from blowing my hair. Would it be so bad if the wind blew it every which way? Out here on the beach with no one to see me, except my little friend the star. Off it comes, and I don’t believe I hear any gasp from the universe. I’ll put it in my pocket and fold it later when I’m inside, with nothing to do. If he’d come with me, would he have remembered the days when my hair was strawberry blond? Silly Dick told me it was “Titian-colored.” He always did see things in his special way. When I worked at the department store, I’d try to show the clothes to their best advantage, daintily turning up a cuff, twirling a wide skirt. I’d put on a necklace so that a blouse would get more attention. When a gentleman was buying a lady a blouse, he’d ask if it should match her eyes and be so surprised when I said that it should match her skin.
Did he get down on his knees with Henry to pray? Can what that book says be true? If I asked Henry, would he—even once in his life—be capable of just answering yes or no?
Quiet out here, quiet, quiet, quiet. That’s what Aunt Neva said when I told her I was marrying Dick. “What are you marrying him for? He’s too quiet.”
I got my first orchid corsage the day of our wedding. And Dick and I got orchids again, for the wives of the returning P.O.W.s. People decorate with them now, like they’re roses. They don’t seem mysterious the way they did, coming from faraway places. I’ve heard there’s a grower in [REDACTED].
In the Peking Hotel, the chef sculpted a praying mantis from a green pepper. Now, there was something unexpected. You wonder how a creative idea like that comes to someone.
Such a lovely feeling, the scarf deep in my pocket. When men carry them, tucked in a breast pocket with just the corner showing, they don’t feel them, but this scarf of mine is my sweet little security blanket. I could lie on the beach and pretend the sand was my bed, and the scarf a blanket, and the breeze an invisible ceiling fan. “Star light, star bright, first star I see tonight, I wish I may, I wish I might, have the wish I wish tonight.” They say no one knows who wrote that. It was written by “Anonymous.” Lucky Anonymous, who never had to field any questions.
What to wish for . . . You won’t stop winking till you hear what I want most, will you?♦

