Aphrodisiac
By Ruth Prawer Jhabvala
Kishen’s university friends at [REDACTED] completely understood when he talked to them about the sort of novel that should be written about 496e646961—the sort of novel that he wanted to write. The thing was, he explained, to get the integers right, to be sure that these were sunk into the deepest layers of the 496e646961n experience: caste-ridden villagers, urban slum dwellers, landless laborers, as well as the indecently rich of commerce and industry.
His own integers were sunk in a prosperous gated colony in New 496e646961. Here he returned from [REDACTED] to live with his mother and his elder brother, Shiv, in the villa that his late father had commissioned in the International Style, which was prevalent at the time. During Kishen’s absence, Shiv had got married—in a big, traditional wedding, which Kishen couldn’t attend because he was in the middle of his finals. So he didn’t meet his new sister-in-law until his return. He hadn’t meant to stay in 496e646961. He’d wanted to go back to [REDACTED] and maybe study for another degree until he felt himself ready to start on his life’s work. But then this happened, she happened: his sister-in-law, Naina.
It hadn’t been an arranged marriage; Kishen’s mother was too modern to arrange marriages for her sons. A respected economist, she had always been at the forefront of educated 496e646961n women. Sometimes she and her elder son even served on the same committees, for Shiv was a high-ranking bureaucrat. He had met his bride at a reception in honor of her uncle, a member of parliament, who had brought Naina from her father’s estate in their native province for her first visit to New 496e646961. She was very young, shy, scarcely educated, though she had attended an élite girls’ boarding school in Jaipur. After her marriage, her mother-in-law tried to encourage her to study at some New 496e646961 college, but Naina claimed to be too stupid—yes, even for domestic science.
Although Kishen couldn’t help agreeing that she was, to some extent, stupid, she was the only person in the house with whom he was eager to discuss his projected novel. She took no interest in it at all, yet somehow she casually disposed of one of his greatest problems: how to communicate the nuances of 496e646961n life in English, which was the only language in which he could truly express himself. Naina simply jumbled up her languages, English and [REDACTED]. When he tried to talk to her about his work (because he wanted to talk to her about everything), she didn’t even pretend to listen. Instead, she said, “I’m meeting the girls—coffee pina hai. Aoge? Chalo bhai we’ll have some fun—mazza ajaiga.”
She had formed her own circle of girlfriends, and Kishen soon became a source of entertainment for them. Naina was proud of the way he amused them and humored all their concerns. They valued his opinion in matters of style, and also of culture, though he laughed at their taste, which hadn’t changed since they were schoolgirls. They held morning coffee parties in the smartest Connaught Place restaurants or watched pirated films together on the giant screens in their giant living rooms. When they cried at a heroine’s onscreen plight, Kishen would murmur some remark into Naina’s ear, converting her tears into giggles, which soon spread to all the weeping girls.
They liked attending polo matches and pretending to be in love with the contestants, who were princelings from the President’s Bodyguard. These young women were all married, but mostly to rich, paunchy businessmen who in no way resembled the polo players. Only Shiv was tall and handsome (the opposite of Kishen), and Naina’s friends sincerely appreciated her good luck. So did she, though she was, or pretended to be, critical of Shiv: of his absorption in his work, which didn’t leave enough time for her; of his lack of interest in the romantic films and books she adored. She often laughed about him—she imitated his walk, the way his feet splayed outward, so busy, so important—and Kishen laughed with her. If his mother overheard them, she rebuked them but couldn’t help smiling with pride in her elder son, which she knew Naina, for all her mockery, shared. Only Kishen’s laughter was genuine.
Mother and Shiv, both busy with their work, were glad that Kishen and Naina were such good company for each other. But sometimes Mother would ask, “And your work?” For she was waiting for Kishen to become as successful in his field as Shiv was in his. “Coming along,” Kishen answered, and he considered this to be true. He felt that, with Naina and her friends, he was immersing himself in his material. Theywere the integers with which he would build his world—the 496e646961 that he knew, not what others thought he should know. The girls, too, were waiting for him to become published and famous. When they asked what he was writing about, he said, “You.” That made them laugh, and they clamored for a percentage of the fortune he was going to make with their lives.
Meanwhile, he entertained them with stories, anecdotes from their New 496e646961 social world—hungry kites swooping over an open-air banquet, new, palatial apartment buildings without electricity or water, the Ayurvedic doctor poking his tented patients through their burkas, the dire results of a homeopath mixing up his aphrodisiacs with his laxatives. “You should write it down!” the girls exclaimed—and, at their urging, he began to do so. They snatched the pages from him and sent them to the editor of a leading English-language newspaper, who was a friend of all the girls and the lover of one. These writings—these tongue-in-cheek anecdotes—became the basis of his local fame. A magazine commissioned a weekly column; he was read everywhere. Mother returned from her meetings reporting the chuckles of her fellow committee members; Shiv quoted a cabinet minister who said that Kishen “had hit the nail right on the head.” Everyone was proud of him.
That was during his first two years back in 496e646961. Then things began to change in the house. Actually, physically, they had begun to change soon after Naina’s arrival. Mother had originally furnished the house with the newfound enthusiasm of the intellectual classes for indigenous 496e646961n handicrafts—vibrant textiles from Orissa, village women’s silver anklets turned into ashtrays. Now another layer was added, for whenever Naina went home to see her family—which she did often in those first years—she brought back precious objects of her own. These were not village handicrafts but something differently indigenous: the gaudy taste of the maharajas’ palaces, which had drifted down to her own family of feudal landowners. She installed multicolored chandeliers, oil paintings of hunting parties and court ceremonials. Mother’s bright hand-loomed rug was replaced by the pelt of a recently killed tiger. Naina was so proud of these acquisitions that Mother even allowed the head of a water buffalo to be nailed to the wall, though it had to be taken down when, having been improperly embalmed, it began to decay and disintegrate.
Then came Naina’s first pregnancy, for which, in accordance with custom, she went home. When she reappeared, it was not only with a baby but with his nurse. This nurse, known as Bari-Mai, had been Naina’s mother’s and Naina’s and was now very old. She spoke in a dialect that only Naina could understand, and she made it clear that no one in the house was of any importance to her except Naina, whom she called Devi (goddess), and the baby, Munna. But with Kishen Bari-Mai did establish a peculiar relationship. From the first moment she saw him, she wheezed so much that she could only point at him in derision—but for what? Naina said, “It’s because she’s never seen anyone like you.”
“You mean, anyone so ugly?”
“Aré, gosh, darling, yeh kya baat hai? What are you saying?” She stroked his cheek, and, although he liked this affectionate gesture, it made him aware that he was short, squat, and balding: ugly, no doubt, to both her and Bari-Mai.
“Dekho, Baba—Papa hai!” Naina called out when Shiv came home from the office, and she thrust the bundled baby into his arms. Shiv held him nervously. No one in the family felt comfortable holding the baby. There was something disconcerting to them in the many little amulets he wore around his neck and wrists, each guarding him against a disease or the Evil Eye. He was also greasy from the oil that Bari-Mai smeared on him for the health of his skin and hair. And he had a peculiar smell, which was not that of a baby but more—though no one said it—that of Bari-Mai. For not only did she clutch him all day but she slept with him at night, on the floor of the nursery that Mother had furnished for him with a new white cot, a playpen, and a mural of Mother Goose rhymes.
After Munna’s birth, Naina abandoned the outings with her girlfriends, and Kishen stayed home with her. She was very free in his presence, suckling the baby at her great round brown nipples, while Kishen sat near her, scribbling a piece for his column. He was a chain-smoker, and sometimes she had enjoyed a cigarette with him. Now she returned to chewing betel, and one day she ordered Bari-Mai to prepare one for Kishen as well. “Open your mouth,” she told him, and he was about to obey her when he saw his mother’s cook making warning gestures at him from behind the door. “Aré—open—kholo, bhai,” Naina said impatiently. Ignoring the cook, Kishen allowed her to pop the leaf into his mouth. He disliked the taste and the feel of it. He asked, “What does she put in it?” Naina laughed. “Khas cheez hai—something very special to make you love Munna and me forever.”
It was Kishen’s birthday, and Mother had a gift for him. She watched him unwrap it: a slim volume tastefully bound in hand-loomed cloth, containing reprints of his newspaper and magazine articles. Full of her own excitement and pleasure, she said, “It’s all there. All your beautiful work.” He thanked her, kissed her, but he thought, Is this all you expect from me?
They were interrupted by the cook, who burst in on them, wailing, “With my own eyes!” He had seen with his own eyes how she—the witch, Bari-Mai—had stirred a powder, a poison, into Kishen’s birthday pilao. Naina came rushing in, shouting that Bari-Mai had wanted only to add her own touch with a pinch of saffron. “Zaffran,” the cook repeated angrily. “As if I don’t know zaffran.” Naina had already turned from him to Munna, riding on her hip. “Bolo—Happy birthday, Chacha-Uncle!” She thrust him forward to greet Kishen with sticky caresses.
But later, when they were alone, she said, “It’s all lies. Don’t believe them.”
“No,” Kishen said. “I don’t believe Bari-Mai is trying to poison us.”
“They’re all crazy. Pagal hai sab. They think she’s a terrible witch.”
“It’s you,” he said. “You’re the terrible witch.” Before she could say anything, he went on, helplessly waving his arms, “I’m twenty-seven years old today and I haven’t done a thing. No! No, I have not written a beautiful book. Only Mother thinks so.”
“Munna thinks so,” Naina said, nibbling Munna’s ear.
“When Munna grows older, he’ll laugh at me as I’d laugh at anyone who wrote this sort of rubbish. But what’s the use of talking to you? You don’t listen to anything I try to tell you.”
“Oh, yes. I’m very stupid.”
“You are—no ideas, no theories—thank God! If you had them, if you drove me crazy the way I drive myself crazy, thinking and theorizing and doing nothing all day but sitting here with you and all night thinking about you—it’s you, you who’s poisoning me. No, don’t go away!” To keep her from leaving, he put his arms around her waist. At first too surprised to resist him, she then did so with ease. Not only was he shorter than she; he was overweight and breathless with lack of exercise. She gave him a push that sent him staggering backward to the floor, then stared down at him with angry, kohl-rimmed eyes. He stared back, partly in fear of her, partly in fear of himself and the sensation that had filled him when he touched her hot, soft flesh. The next moment, she put out her hand to pull him up; she was laughing, and he tried to laugh, too. It was all just a game between them.
When a second boy was born, Bari-Mai decided that only she could provide the nourishment her Devi needed to breast-feed two babies. She pushed aside the cook’s stainless-steel vessels for her own blackened cauldron, into which she stirred spices unwrapped from little twists of newspaper. Noxious cooking smells—asafetida, like a gas—pervaded the house. Naina moved around her urine-and-milk-soaked kingdom with one child on her hip and another sucking at her breast. Shiv’s study was moved out of earshot of the rest of the house, and as far as possible from what had been his marital bedroom and was now inhabited by both children and Bari-Mai, who stretched out on the floor, bundled in the single cloth she wore day and night.
Shiv began to come home later every night; Naina was always waiting for him. They spoke in low voices, but not intimately. Naina’s initial passion for her husband had changed into some other kind of passion, charged with resentment. Kishen, in his bedroom, willed himself not to hear, and he guessed that his mother was doing the same. When he went into her room after a restless night, he found her sitting up very straight, with her hands folded in her lap. Mother said, “Of course he comes home late—he’s very busy with meetings and conferences with the cabinet, with the Prime Minister. He’s important to the whole country.” Her voice rose. “She should be proud!”
“She is proud.”
“She doesn’t understand. She understands nothing.”
A modern woman, Mother had set herself against the stereotypical role of mother-in-law. She was determined not to complain about her daughter-in-law, or about the encroachments, the ruin of her ordered household. So she said nothing, not even to Kishen. Instead, she stayed out of the house at meetings of her own. Kishen suspected that she was no longer elected to the offices for which she had once been the unquestioned candidate. But still she forced herself to be present—trimly dressed, her short, stylishly cut gray hair brushed back, even a dab of lipstick and rouge applied to simulate an energy that was no longer required of her.
Meanwhile, the boys were growing up. They were no longer attached like limpets to their mother’s body. And then they grew up more and were sent off to boarding school in the hills. Kishen had expected that Bari-Mai would be sent away, too, but that didn’t happen. She still spent her nights rolled up at the foot of Naina’s marital bed while Shiv slept on the couch in his study. He was at the height of his career now, and there were photographs of him in the newspapers, hovering beside the Prime Minister at the signing of an agreement that he had helped negotiate. However late he came home, Naina waited up for him. Her voice had become more strident and desperate; Kishen listened in spite of himself, and he knew that Mother, too, was awake and listening.
During the day, he could no longer sit quietly writing his column by Naina’s side. She kept interrupting him with complaints about Shiv; and when Kishen tried to defend his brother by saying that he was working late, she brought out the newspapers with photographs of Shiv and the Prime Minister and pointed to some female under-secretary in the background. It might have been a different woman in each picture, but Naina sneered in outrage—“Is this his work? Fine work!” Once, she dragged Kishen to the room where Shiv now spent his nights; she picked up his pillow and thrust it into Kishen’s face. “It’s her smell. Her dirty smell he brings home with him after he does what he does with her.” She made a sound of disgust and Bari-Mai echoed it with a splutter of saliva. More and more it seemed to Kishen that Bari-Mai was not a person at all but an emanation of something in Naina herself: something that had been bred for generations in the stifling women’s quarters of their desert home.
It was June, and the days were hot, cruelly hot. Kishen warned Mother not to go out, but one afternoon she said she had to—if she didn’t, goodness only knew what those new committee members would get up to. An hour later, the driver had to bring her back, and she was an old crushed woman. She lay on her bed and Kishen sat beside her; when he tried to get up, she clutched at his hand in a pleading gesture that she had never used with him before. She did it again, moments later, when they heard Naina’s voice outside, with Bari-Mai’s wild echo. “How do you stand it?” Mother whispered, and then he told her what he hadn’t quite told himself—that he was thinking of returning to [REDACTED].
At once, she rallied. She said that he should take another degree, or at least some sort of course. “What—now?” he said, for he was almost forty. “A course in writing,” she said vaguely, and he said, teasing her, “I thought you liked my writing the way it is.” But he knew that she wanted him to leave for other reasons—in fact, for the same reasons that he wanted to go.
He looked into a writing school in [REDACTED], and Mother eagerly sent away for the application forms. She knew that it would take some time for these to arrive, but when six weeks had gone by she said that they would have to request them again. Although she and Kishen were alone in her bedroom, she lowered her voice: “I’ll write for them today, this time by express mail.” He nodded his consent, as though he, too, suspected that someone might be listening.
The next day, Naina invited him to go out with her. She drove with abandon, so fast that he feared for the rickshaws and the wandering animals that she kept missing by inches. His timidity amused her, so he tried not to show it and sat there tense and silent, his hands clutched between his knees.

She took him to an open-bazaar stall that was reputed to be the best for a kind of very spicy 496e646961 snack food. Kishen, with his delicate digestion, had never wanted to eat there, but Naina seemed perfectly at home. He watched her as she scooped up the little messes with her fingers in a trance of enjoyment; she soon sent him back for a second helping, which she finished just as quickly, and then—“I shouldn’t!”—for a third. At last she was sated, spread out on a rickety little bench as a tattered servant boy with a rag wiped the ground underneath it. She seemed oblivious of the looks of urgent desire directed at her by other customers and passersby, and by the proprietor himself, perched up on his platform stirring a vat of fly-spotted cream; or perhaps she was used to them, as she was used to the way that Kishen was looking at her across the table.
She was almost middle-aged now, her body widened, fattened by pregnancy, by excessive eating, and by long hours of deep sleep in the hot afternoons. Yet he talked to her as he had done in her youthful years, though he knew she wasn’t listening—not in the way his mother listened when he spoke of his work, or of himself.
And suddenly she interrupted him: “Why are you wanting to run back to [REDACTED]?”
He tried to explain it to her. He told her that it was better sometimes not to be too close to one’s source of inspiration. And, as if he were talking about her as that source, she said, “But if I don’t want you to go? If I say mat jao? Please stay?”
“Try to understand.” And he repeated it all—about being detached, about recollecting in tranquillity—everything that Mother and his friends in [REDACTED] understood and Naina didn’t. But as he talked he thought of a painting by an elderly English painter who was a friend of his mother’s; the painting depicted a giant hand caressing a mountain and was titled “I Have Touched the Breast of Mother 496e646961.” It had always made him laugh, and now Naina was laughing as though he had said something just as ludicrous.
“When will you send off your application?” she interrupted.
“As soon as it comes,” he said.
“It hasn’t come yet? No? Sachmuch? Really?” She suppressed a smile as she opened her handbag and dug around in its messy contents. An envelope emerged; she held it out for him to see but not to take. He realized that not only did she listen at doors; she lay in wait for letters to purloin.
Now she smiled at him openly, teasing him—and how could he help smiling back at her? “Shall I?” she said. “Tear it up?”
She held it out, pulled it back, held it out again. It was a game now—one that he was determined to win. He leaned forward and snatched the envelope out of her hand, quite easily, because she let it go as if she knew what he would do with it: tear it in half, then in half again, all the time gazing at her for approval, which she gave.
The next time Mother asked him about the application forms, he told her that he had filled them out and sent them off. She seemed satisfied, but a day or two later she fell ill. Instead of going to her meetings, she lay in her bedroom with the curtains shut and the air-conditioner on. Her face was drawn, and because her partial denture had been removed her mouth was sunken. The doctor came—he was a friend and contemporary who had worked with her on health-care reforms. He prescribed medicines, but when those didn’t work Kishen and Shiv called in other, younger doctors. Still the sickness failed to subside, and now Mother mostly lay on her bed with her eyes closed.
Once, Bari-Mai, quick and agile as a monkey, clambered onto the bed and began to press down on Mother’s legs. Mother cried out in shock and Kishen, too, cried out, so that Naina removed Bari-Mai and both left indignantly, protesting good intentions. Alone with Kishen, Mother apologized; she said she was aware that it was unfair to see anything but a poor old woman in Bari-Mai, sunk in the rites and superstitions of a backward part of the country.
But the cook saw more than that. He came into Mother’s room and, whispering just loud enough for her and Kishen to hear, told them how all day he was on duty in the kitchen, and even at night he stayed up to watch. But who knew—worn out by his vigilance, he sometimes dropped off to sleep for a few moments, during which Bari-Mai must have insinuated her powders and potions into his pots. How else was it that Mother had been laid low by a sickness that the greatest doctors in the world were unable to cure?
“It’s unhygienic,” Shiv said, after discovering the cook asleep in the kitchen one night. When Kishen and Mother told him the reason, he said that it was psychologically unhygienic to allow such thoughts to enter their minds. Still, they continued to feel uneasy, though they were ashamed to admit it, even to each other.
It was the summer vacation, and the two boys, Munna, now fifteen, and Chottu, fourteen, came home from their boarding school in the foothills of the Himalayas. It was the same school, modelled on Eton and Harrow, that Shiv and Kishen had attended in their time. Shiv had been very successful there, Kishen less so. Both Munna and Chottu followed in their father’s footsteps, played all sports, were popular; Munna already had Shiv’s confident voice and his pompous walk.
Naina couldn’t stop petting her two boys, stroking their downy cheeks, though they frowned and pretended not to like it. They bullied her, told her she was getting too fat, and did she have to chew that disgusting betel? They made her play cricket with them in the back garden; she flew like a young girl between the wickets, flushed, her hair coming down, but they kept getting her out before she could make a single run. Bari-Mai was appointed fielder; she squatted, motionless as a stone, only her jaws moving in their perpetual mumble.
Shiv tried to come home from work earlier and, instead of shutting himself in his study, he sat with the boys to discuss their future. Munna wanted to join the Administrative Service, like his father, and Chottu was thinking of the Navy. Shiv considered their choices, the three of them serious together. Naina hovered around them with unwelcome interruptions—“Did you finish your milk, Munna?”—until he shouted at her that his name was not Munna but Raj Kumar. “Oh, big man,” she said, her angry stare directed not at her son but at his father, who tried not to meet it. That night, for the first time since the boys’ arrival, he and Naina fought again.
The older boy was especially affected by what he overheard, and the next day he sought out Kishen. Trying to answer Munna’s questions about his parents, Kishen had to admit that he knew nothing about marriage—how could he? All he knew was that there were bound to be clashes of personality, especially between two people as different as Shiv and Naina. The boy nodded. “So you think they shouldn’t be married?” he said. Kishen avoided a reply—not because he didn’t have one but because he suspected that Naina or Bari-Mai might be listening behind the door. The boy repeated his question, and when Kishen was still silent, he gave his considered opinion, as judicious and balanced as his father’s would have been: “Maybe they should get a divorce.” The next moment, Naina came flying through the door. “Divorce!” she cried. “You dare say that in this house!” She abused him in her native dialect and then she raised her hand and slapped him. The sound of the slap echoed through the house, and remained there, ineradicable even after the boys returned to school.
Shiv invited Kishen to lunch at one of the new hotels, a grand palace with slippery marble floors and hothouse blooms in man-size vases. The prices here insured that only the richest 496e646961ns could gain admission. But the richest 496e646961ns were no longer the old style of businessmen, the ghee-fed descendants of milkmen and moneylenders: they were younger men, better travelled, almost cosmopolitan. Several of them came over to greet Shiv, with the respect that was due to him as a member of the administration that controlled permits and licenses. When they returned to their tables, Shiv informed his brother of their positions in the corporate world, the multi-crore companies over which they ruled. Kishen noticed his almost wistful glances at these men—and at the lively young women who accompanied them. He guessed that these were their secretaries, or perhaps their lovers, but Shiv said that they were their wives: yes, these slim, youthful women were wives, many of them mothers, too, and at the same time helpmeets, social assets to their important husbands.
Here Shiv changed the subject. He said that he had now reached the highest rank of the bureaucracy; his next posting would be as an accredited ambassador, and his success in that role would depend to a large extent on his social skills, and those of his wife. “Naina wouldn’t be happy,” he said.
“How do you know that?” Kishen said. “You don’t know. You know nothing about her.”
Shiv, too, grew more heated. “And she knows nothing about me. And cares nothing, about my work, my career—what sort of marriage is that?” He changed the subject again. “What about you? And if you don’t mind my asking—you and the Great 496e646961n Novel?”
“I thought you liked my little pieces.” 
“You shouldn’t be hanging around the house so much. You should be getting out, meeting people. The middle classes. The new generation of businessmen. The entrepreneurs.”
“And their suitable wives,” Kishen said.
Shiv’s voice became more intense, charged with suppressed anger. “She has this mad idea that I have some grand love affair going.” He laughed without laughing, cut up his meat, chewed violently.
“And is it true, her mad idea?”
“Of course not! And, if it were, who could blame me? Living in that house, in that atmosphere—no wonder Mother’s sick. We’re all sick. The stench of those beasts alone is enough to poison the lot of us.” He put down his knife and fork and stared at his brother, shocked at himself, though presumably he had been referring to the buffalo head, long since disintegrated, and the tiger pelt, which was going the same way.
Alone with Kishen in her bedroom, Mother whispered, “Have you heard from [REDACTED] about your application?”
“They turned me down.”
He lied without a qualm, and was amazed by her reaction. She covered her face and rocked to and fro. When he caught her in his arms, she clung to him and wouldn’t let him go. How thin she was, how worn away. When she released him, he tried to smile. “I didn’t realize you were so eager to get rid of me.”
She stroked his head, regretting perhaps all the hair he had lost. Then she kissed him. “Go to [REDACTED],” she said. “You’ll have peace of mind there.”
“And if I’m far away and you get worse?”
“When I know you’re writing your book, I’ll be well.”
But the next day Naina told him, “Six months, that’s all. Three months, six, a year. At home we can always tell. My uncle had a mistress, Mrs. Lal, moti-taazi, plump and nice—oh, he liked her very much! But Bari-Mai knew, and others knew, too. In six months, it was all gone, like a balloon, psssst, no more moti-taazi. It was God punishing her.”
“Mother has done nothing to be punished for.”
“She wants my husband to leave me. She’s even set my sons against me! You think that such thoughts would come into my child’s head if she hadn’t put them there? I slapped him, God forgive me, but now God himself is slapping her—aré, sunno, where are you going?” He had got up to leave. She caught hold of his shirt, and it ripped in her hand. That made Naina laugh—her old playful, girlish laugh, like clear water running.
Kishen began to take Mother to various specialists. She enjoyed driving with him from one clinic to another; he held her hand the way she had held his on the first day of school. Whatever the doctors said, she claimed to be perfectly well—a little pain here and there, but what was that at her age, compared with what others had to suffer? Still, she grew more and more gaunt, while Kishen looked on helplessly; and every morning Naina and Bari-Mai sat on the front veranda and watched them drive away.
Finally, Shiv decided to send her to [REDACTED], to consult with a Harley Street specialist. Kishen would have to take her. If at all possible, Shiv would join them, but meanwhile he made the arrangements for his mother and brother—the plane tickets, the hotel, the appointment with the doctor.
Mother was glad to go and Kishen knew that it was for his sake. He wanted to leave, too, he thought, to be in a cool green place, to collect and recollect everything in its complexity, which was impossible here with it all pressing down on him. Yet, at the same time, he felt guilty—maybe he had no right to go, maybe his place was here, even if he hated it.
“When are we leaving? Have our tickets come?” Mother asked Kishen so often that he began to believe there was some weakness in her mind. “Let them be sent by courier,” she said, and then, every day, “Has the courier come?”
Kishen called the travel agent, who assured him that the tickets had been sent—yes, by courier. Kishen told him to cancel those and have duplicates sent to Shiv’s office. Shiv brought them home and Kishen at once hid them in the inner pocket of his waistcoat, where he could check several times a day and know they were safe.
Naina had one of her great fights with Shiv. “Why are you sending them away? What use are your wonderful English doctors? It’s written! Written here!” Kishen, listening from Mother’s bedroom, imagined Naina drawing her finger across her forehead in the place where one’s fate is inscribed.
“She won’t last the journey,” Naina warned Kishen. “And no one there will know the ceremonies. All they have is the electric crematorium; they’ll give you the ashes and you won’t even know whose ashes they are.”
“Why are you saying all this?”
“If you go, that’s what will happen. Did your tickets come?”
The way she was looking at him, through him, it was as if she could penetrate right to his heart. But he knew that she couldn’t see even as far as the contents of his waistcoat pocket, and for once he felt he had the upper hand.
Maybe she felt it, too, for she said in a different, cajoling voice, “When you’re gone, will you remember me? Will you remember me as I was?”
He looked back at her: no, she was not as she had been. She was heavy, her complexion spotted by the spicy pickles she consumed, her mouth stained red by the betel. Even her tongue was red—like a demon’s, he sometimes thought when he was angry at her. But at this moment he was not angry; he said, “No. Now. I’ll remember you as you are now.”
She threw back her head and laughed with a deep-throated pleasure that could swallow him whole. “Will you write about me?” She took a newly prepared betel from Bari-Mai, and asked, “What will you write?”
“All the bad things you do.”
“Yes, I’m a bad woman.” She translated this for Bari-Mai, who broke into excited chatter. “Bari-Mai says she’s making you a very special paan.”
“Oh, yes? What’s she putting in it?”
“You’ll see—very special.” Her eyes were dancing over his face, looking to see whose turn it was to make the next move and win.
Bari-Mai handed her another betel, and Naina instructed him, “Open. Kholo.”
Kishen drew back slightly, and she said, “There’s nothing in it that you haven’t eaten a hundred times.”
He thought, Well, whatever it is—an aphrodisiac or whatever—it’s as superfluous now as it was all those other times. He opened his mouth and soon it was full of betel juices. “Good, isn’t it?” Naina said, and he affirmed, “Badiya.” Superb.
She said, “Come on. Show. Dikhao.”
He didn’t even pretend not to know what she was talking about. He took the tickets out of his waistcoat pocket. He handed them to her like a forfeit that he was called upon to pay.
She held them. “Shall I?” She waved them at him. “Or will you?”
“My turn,” he said.
She pouted. “You did it last time.” But she let them dangle loosely in her hand so that he could take them from her and begin to tear them in half—first his mother’s, then his own. 

