What Have You Done?
By Ben Marcus
When Paul’s flight landed in [REDACTED], they were waiting for him. They’d probably arrived early, set up camp right where passengers float off the escalator scanning for family. They must have huddled there watching the arrivals board, hoping in the backs of their minds, and the mushy front parts of their minds, too, yearning with their entire minds, that Paul would do what he usually did—or didn’t—and just not come home.
But this time he’d come, and he’d hoped to arrive alone, to be totally alone until the very last second. The plan was to wash up, to be one of those fat guys at the wall of sinks in the airport bathroom, soaping their underarms, changing shirts. Then he’d get a Starbucks, grab his bag, take a taxi out to the house. That way he could delay the face time with these people. Delay the body time, the time itself, the time, while he built up his nerve, or whatever strategy it was that you employed when bracing yourself for [REDACTED]. For the people of [REDACTED]. His people.
They had texted him, though, and now here they were in a lump, pressed so tightly together you could almost have buckshot the three of them down with a single pull. Not that he was a hunter. Dad, Alicia, and Rick. The whole sad gang, minus one. Paul considered walking up to them and holding out his wrists, as if they were going to cuff him and lead him away. You have been sentenced to a week with your family! But they wouldn’t get it, and then, forever more, he’d be the one who had started it, after so many years away, the one who had triggered all the difficulty yet again with his bullshit and games, and why did he need to queer the thing before the thing had even begun, unless, gasp, he wanted to set fire to his whole life.
So he strode up as cheerfully as he could, but he must have overdone it, because his father looked stricken, as if Paul might be moving in for a hug. He could have gone ahead and hugged the man, to see if there was anything left between them, except that he was going to behave himself, or so he’d pledged, and his father seemed thin and old and scared. Scared of Paul, or scared of the airport and the crowds, where disturbingly beautiful people and flat-out genetically certified monsters swarmed together as if they belonged to the same species. Maybe that was just what happened to a man’s face after seventy: it grew helplessly honest, and today’s honest feeling was shit-stoked fear, because someone’s son had come home and his track record was, well, not the greatest. Paul understood, he understood, he understood, and he nodded and tried to smile, because they couldn’t really nail him for that, and they followed him to the baggage claim.
In the car they didn’t ask him about his trip and he didn’t volunteer. His sister and Rick whispered and cuddled and seemed to try to inseminate each other facially in the back seat while his father steered the car onto the expressway. Alicia and Rick had their whole married lives to exchange fluids and language, but for some reason they’d needed to wait until Paul was there to demonstrate how clandestine and porno they were. They had big secrets—as securely employed adults very well might. Plus they wanted Paul to know that they were vibrantly glistening sexual human beings, even in their late thirties, when most people’s genitals turn dark and small, like shrunken heads, and airport trip be damned, because they couldn’t just turn off their desire at will.
Alone they probably hated each other, Paul thought. Masturbating in separate rooms, then reading in bed together on his-and-her Kindles. Ignoring the middle-aged fumes steaming under the duvet. Just another marriage burning through its eleventh year. What’s the anniversary stone for eleven years of marriage? A pebble?
Paul sat and watched the outskirts of [REDACTED] bloom in his window, as if endlessly delayed construction projects held professional interest for him, a village of concrete foundations filled with sand, rebar poking through like the breathing tubes of men buried alive.
His father took the exit onto Monroe and the woozy hairpin up Cutler Road, which Paul had always loved, because of the way the light suddenly dumped down on you as you pulled above the tree line. The city stretched below them, the whole skyline changed since he’d last visited, ten years ago. The old stone banks—Sovereign, Shelby, Citizens—squatted in the shadow of new, bladelike towers that weren’t half bad. They were tall and thin and black, hooked at their tops, and were either sheathed entirely in charcoal-tinted glass or simply windowless. Someone had actually hired real architects. Someone had decided not to rape the [REDACTED] skyline, and there must have been hell to pay. 
It was still a good fifteen minutes to the house. The time for basic small talk had passed, so maybe it was [REDACTED] to try big talk. Someone had to break the silence before they all died of it, and Paul figured he might as well address the elephant in the room. Or the elephant in the car, or whatever.
“Mom couldn’t come?” he asked.
“Oh, Paul, she wanted to,” his father said, eyes dead on the road.
“She wanted to and you prevented her?” Paul said, laughing. “You held her down?”
“No, that’s not it.” His father frowned.
“Mom’s resting, Paul,” his sister said from the back seat.
“She’s excited to see you,” Rick added, in a voice too loud for the car. Big Rick the Righteous. The peacemaker. Telling folks what they want to hear. Making folks feel better since 1971.
“Thank you, Rick,” Paul said, without turning around. “Now I know who to ask when I need to find out what my mother really feels.”
Rick was right. Paul’s mother was waiting in her robe when he came in the door, and she rushed up, hugged him, kissed him, smothering him with love while Paul stood there holding his bags.
“Oh, Paul!”
“Hi, Mom.”
“Paul!” she cried again, grabbing his face, tilting back to see the whole huge mess of him.
She looked so small inside her robe.
“You shaved! You shaved it off!”
“I did,” Paul said, stroking his chin, smirking.
He suddenly felt proud. This was his mother’s great gift—to make him feel good about absurdly common things, like grooming.
“Oh, my goodness, you are so handsome.”
His mother was crying a little. She couldn’t hug him enough.
“Pauly!”
This was nice. This was really nice.
“Morton, do you see how handsome your son is? Do you see?”
She studied Paul again, and he found that he could meet his mother’s eyes and it did not feel terrible. He smiled at her and meant it. He wanted to pick her up and run out in the street.
His mother would never, thank God, see him or his abused, overfed body for what it was. Even Andrea, at home, had to admit that Paul was not exactly handsome, per se, though when she was being affectionate she told him that he looked serious. He had a fair-minded face, she would say.
“Morton?” Paul’s mother called again.
Concern flashed across her face as she realized that she’d been left alone with Paul. The panic of someone trapped in a cage with an animal. Zookeeper, let me out of here! Paul felt bad for her, his poor mom, stranded with him, when who knows what he might do?
Paul’s father must have gone to the kitchen. Rick and Alicia had run upstairs to fuck, or whisper some more. Or whisper and fuck and hide while poor Mom dealt with Paul, as always. They’d done their time with Paul in the car, and now it was Mom’s shift. This was how it would be for the whole visit, the three of them playing hot potato with fat Paul.
She fussed at Paul’s coat zipper, then adjusted her robe, but there was nothing to fix and no one to groom and they’d already hugged. She was panicked. She wheeled and hurried into the kitchen, calling, “Come, come, you must be starving,” then fled from sight.
Paul waited with his bags.
“Where do you want me?” he yelled. He needed a bathroom and to change his clothes. “Where am I, Mom? What room?”
His mother didn’t answer; his father was gone—resting, probably. Everyone in his family was constantly needing to rest, but never from physical exertion. Always from the other kind of exertion. Resting from him, Paul the difficult, who latched on to your energy center with his little red mouth and sucked it dry. You’d think that, given how long he’d steered clear of [REDACTED], they’d be rested by now.
Alicia appeared at the top of the staircase, wearing just a long T-shirt. She was dishevelled and flushed. That hadn’t taken long.
“You’re up here, Paul,” she said, and he followed her, climbing the soft, carpeted stairs to his old bedroom.
His parents had only dial-up in the house, which figured, because old people hated the Internet. But they probably hated the Internet because they had only dial-up, and had to crawl through the USA Today Web site, which never fully loaded, with videos that never played, and click on e-mail attachments that took hours to download, so why even bother? The upshot was that Paul couldn’t really get onto any of his sites. He had a few jpegs buried deep on his hard drive in a folder called “old budgets.” He brought the pictures up on the screen of his laptop. To be safe, he locked the door of his room, and then he settled in to try, sitting on the chair that his dad had painted red for him decades ago. He’d been back in his childhood house, what, all of ten minutes before his pants were at his ankles and his little organ was out, lonely from the long flight, looking for friction. But the pictures onscreen reminded Paul, for no good reason, of people he knew. Civilians, instead of anonymous, Photoshopped nubiles. Civilians who had suddenly become naked, who were visibly uncomfortable in their poses, who seemed to want desperately to get dressed and head home to make pasta for someone. Paul’s sad man was cold and small in his hand, and nothing was working.
He had tricks for situations like this, a way to will himself into something passing for readiness, at least enough to travel to the other side, because stopping halfway through was tough to live down. He could have used a splint, just Popsicle-sticked the little fucker until it stood, but that was when Alicia knocked and he jumped up and pulled on his pants, figuring there was about a thirty-two-per-cent chance she’d know what he’d been doing.
“So,” she said, when he opened up, crossing her arms in the doorway. He guessed that this was the only cue he was going to get that they should have their little talk—brother and sister, adults now, believe it or not.
Alicia used to be forbidden to enter his room. In high school Paul had made a chart of those who couldn’t come in: Mom, Dad, and Alicia, their names in large block letters, plus, in smaller letters, Nana and that whole crowd. Fucking Nana and her skeletal friends, geriatric narcs who kept wandering upstairs to spy. Posted on his door as if he hadn’t also delivered the information verbally, numerous times, when admonitions were his preferred mode of rhetoric. What a man he’d once been, ordering everyone around. And they had all obeyed! Never in his life would he command so much power again.
All signs of Paul were gone from the room now. Blush-colored paint reddened the walls, the punched-in holes spackled up and painted over. New floors—linoleum intended to look like wood—new furniture, sanitized air pumped in to cleanse the place of the errant son. It looked like a showroom for a home office dedicated to lace crafts and scrapbooking. It was hard not to realize what kind of kid his parents wished they’d had, and when he thought about that kind of kid it was tempting for Paul to want to track, hunt, and eat the little thing.
“How are you?” Alicia asked, and it seemed like she was really trying, for which bless her, because they had days to kill and might as well be friends.
They closed the door, sat on the bed. God, she looked old. Her face was slack and tired, and her eyes were muddy, as if she’d rubbed them all day and then poured red wine in them. But who was Paul to talk? He upsized his clothing almost every year and had moved on to the big-and-tall shop, which still carried some good brands. If his face remained smooth and babyish at forty, without the friendship-defeating beard he used to wear, with his shirt off he was shocking to behold, and he knew it. “Shocking” was maybe too strong a word. Actually, no, “shocking” was accurate. He had small, thin shoulders and from there his body spread hard and wide, into a belly that spilled around to his lower back. A second belly in the rear, which might be why he ate so much. Two mouths to feed.
Paul said that he was fine, and Alicia looked at him intently, asked if that was really true. Paul insisted that it was, it really was, but how was she, and how were things with Rick, and did they like [REDACTED]?
“We live in [REDACTED],” Alicia said, stiffening. “We moved three years ago.”
Of course he knew that, had been told that, but it wasn’t like Alicia’s e-mail address had changed or anything, and you didn’t send things to people by mail anymore.
Paul assessed his sister and couldn’t really tell, because she wasn’t exactly a slender woman. Maybe she was technically showing. Some women hide it well. So he asked. He knew they wanted one, and what harm was there in asking?
“No,” she said, a bit too cheerfully, which was weird, given the thoroughly public way she and Rick had always demonstrated their urge for children of their own.
“It’s getting late, though, right?” This he knew. This was information he was quite familiar with. The sun starts to set at forty.
“We’re [REDACTED] with it,” Alicia said. “We really are.”
Which was what you said when you weren’t [REDACTED], so he would drop it. But to himself he couldn’t quite drop it. Who was broken, his sister or Rick? Who was flawed or rotten on the inside? Or was it both of them, which was maybe what had attracted them to each other in the first place? Maybe there was a dating service for the barren. Sexually on fire, but fucking barren. Of course he knew how they’d met. He’d been there. In this very house. And Rick had been his friend. In high school they’d once almost gone camping together.
If Alicia’s childlessness troubled her, he knew she wasn’t going to show him. He was last on her list for candid disclosures, displays of vulnerability. Human feeling. Not for Paul. He was going to get a censored Alicia, and that was probably all he deserved.
“Can I ask,” she said, “if you have someone?”
She seemed genuinely hopeful, so earnest that Paul overlooked the strangeness of the phrase “have someone.” He admitted that there was someone, there was, and her name was Andrea, and we’ll see, won’t we? Isn’t that all you can ever say, even thirty years into a marriage, not that he would know? We’ll see how it goes? 
“Oh, Paul!” Alicia cried. “Oh, that’s wonderful!”
It was pretty wonderful, he admitted, really wonderful. It was hard not to smile and sit there feeling crazily lucky. Maybe this would be easier than he had thought.
But when Alicia pressed him for details, including the precise occasion on which he had met this mysterious woman, the fucking G.P.S. coördinates for this highly improbable event, not to mention a photo, a photo of the two of them together, it was clear that she didn’t believe him, not even remotely.
Paul veered the conversation to their parents. The common, if chewed-up, ground they shared. How were they, and etcetera.
“You know, Dad is Dad,” Alicia said, shrugging. “He had me washing dishes the second we got to the house yesterday. I’m his little slave.”
“You could say no, you know.”
Alicia looked at him coldly. “No, Paul, you can say no.”
“Yeah, I guess. But they don’t even ask me. I don’t get to say no.”
“Ha-ha.”
“And Mom?”
“She’s doing so great. She’s really amazing. She’s such a fighter.”
Paul squinted. What did this mean? Whom had she fought? Paul had never even seen his mom get mad. He tried to put the question in his face, because he felt odd asking—after all, how could he not know if something had happened to his mother?—but Alicia moved on to the party, the stupid family reunion, which crouched like a nasty-faced animal on Paul’s horizon.
The reunion was tomorrow night. 43616e616461s and uncles and grandparents and all the people they had bribed to love them. The whole family tree shaking its ass on the dance floor. A Berger family freak-out. Getting together to bury their faces in buffet pans and lie about their achievements.
“What are you going to wear?” she asked.
Paul said that he might not go.
“What do you mean you might not go? Isn’t that why you’re here? You can’t not go—everyone’s going to be there. What are you going to do, stay home and beat off?”
So she knew.
“I don’t know. We’ll see.”
“We’ll see? Jesus, Paul, you are such an asshole.”
There was a time when she’d have been afraid to say even this, the obvious truth. Paul might have responded with heirloom breakage, a dervish whirl through his sister’s valuables. The truth was he was too tired to break anything. You needed to be in shape. So chalk that up to some improvement between them. By the time they were eighty, there was no telling how evolved they’d be.
“I know,” he admitted. “I’ll probably go. I’ll try to go.”
“God damn. Don’t do us any favors.”
At dinner that night, the questions came, and Paul tried to suck it up.
“How’s business, Paul?” Rick boomed. Everyone else at the table shrank, as if someone were throwing up and they didn’t want to get splashed. Probably Rick hadn’t been at the family meeting where they’d decided to go easy on Paul, lay off the hard stuff. Like, uh, questions.
“Let’s not set him off,” his father had probably advised. “Let’s nobody get him going. It’s just not worth it.”
His mom and Alicia must have nodded in agreement, and now Rick had thrown them all off the plan, going for the jugular, the crotch, the fat lower back. A full-body tackle.
“I don’t know, Rick,” Paul answered. “Business is fine. You mean world business? The stock market? Big question. I could talk all night, or we could gather around my calculator and do this thing numerically. Huddle up and just go binary.”
He wished for a moment that he belonged to the population of men who asked and answered questions like this, who securely knew that these questions were just a gateway for nonsexual statistical intercourse between underachieving men.
Rick was confused, so Alicia jumped in.
“You know what he means, Paul. What do you do for work? What’s your job?”
“I cash Dad’s checks and spend the money on child sex laborers down at the shipyard.”
His mother put her hand to her mouth and stared away.
Perhaps there was something about sitting at this table that had made him take the low road so hard and fast. The table, his room, that red chair, the house, the whole city of [REDACTED]. The blame could be shared.
“Paul,” Alicia warned.
“Yeah, I know. Fine. I haven’t taken Dad’s money in years, Alicia, if you must know.”
He stopped to eat and everyone else was quiet, looking at him. He’d promised himself that he’d try harder, and already he wasn’t trying harder at all. He took a breath and looked at Rick, and Rick just blinked, waiting.
“I work at a cabinet shop, Rick. We make custom kitchen cabinets. I operate the tenoning jig.”
That wasn’t so bad.
Rick, all by himself, burst out laughing, because cabinetmaking was one of the funniest things in the world, maybe, or because he was one retort behind and he wanted to be sure he got the joke this time. He looked around for company, but no one else was laughing.
“You do what?” he said.
Suddenly, Paul’s father leaned in, intensely curious. Mr. Tuned Out had just got his little button pushed. He stared at Paul, and Paul couldn’t tell if he was excited or angry. “You’re a carpenter?” he asked, in absolute wonder.
“Woodworker, actually, Dad, is what it’s called. Fine joinery and that sort of thing. Huge difference. Carpenters, well, you know. I don’t have to tell you.”
Paul stopped himself. What a thing to say to a man who used to build houses, a carpenter before he became a big contractor. But fuck it. His dad had been retired forever. Didn’t even work in his own shop anymore, probably. And there was a big difference between a woodworker and a carpenter. That wasn’t his fault.
“Shit, though, Paul,” Rick said. “Pretty good money in that, I bet, with so many people redoing their kitchens. Is it union?”
Paul admitted that it was, and Rick inhaled with a show—slightly false, Paul felt—of admiration.
“Nice. Nice. Right? You could support a family with that, am I right? If you wanted to?”
Rick winked for everyone to see, and what a person to wink, with his failed seed. Why would he be turning the screws on Paul when he had nothing to show for himself?
“I do, actually, Rick,” Paul whispered, looking down at his food. He couldn’t believe he was telling them. “I do support a family.”
He smiled and wanted to say more, to fill in the blanks, but they looked at him as if he were the strangest creature they’d ever seen. And maybe he was, but did that mean he couldn’t have a family?
It was his mother, though, who did it. Such concern in her face, such pity, as if to say, Poor, poor Paul, who still needs to lie to us, and what did we ever do to create this man? He’d hardly begun to tell them, and yet she seemed so sorrowful looking at him like that. So he asked about dessert, and she brightened, jumped up, crowing from the kitchen about the best blackberry pie in the world. You had to try it. And who wanted ice cream, and, Alicia, could you help clear?
Paul’s cell phone rang while they were watching television. He took the call outside, as if the reception were better in the yard. They were probably relieved that he’d left the house.
“Hey,” Andrea said.
“Oh, my God, hey.”
It was so good to hear her voice.
“So how is it?” she asked.
“It’s [REDACTED] It’s [REDACTED]” He took some deep breaths. He just needed to talk to her and get grounded.
“You’re lying.” She laughed.
“No, no,” Paul insisted. “It’s fine, everyone’s fine. I mean, it’s weird to be here. The city is different.”
“Yeah? Different how?”
She was so good. She really wanted to know. She wanted him to tell her everything, and he wanted to, and if he had more time he would, but who cared what was different about [REDACTED]? It didn’t matter. He just missed her and he told her that and she sounded happy.
“How’s Jack?” he asked.
“I just put him down. He’s such a sweetie. He actually asked to go to bed. He stood and waited by his crib for me to lift him in.”
“Oh, my God,” Paul said. “The little dude.”
“I know.”
“Give him a huge hug for me.”
“Yeah, I will,” Andrea said. “At five-thirty in the morning when he wakes up I’ll hug him and tell him that Daddy misses him. Then I’ll make coffee and wait for the sun to come up and wonder how the hell I’m going to get through the day.”
“I’m so sorry. I’ll make it up to you. I’ll do the morning shift all next week.”
“Oh, it doesn’t matter, Paul.”
They talked, but not about [REDACTED], or the Berger psychosis, as he referred to it when he was home with her. They talked about little stuff that didn’t matter, but soon Andrea’s voice drifted off in a way that meant something was wrong, and of course he knew what it was, because it had been wrong for a while now, and it was his fault.
“And,” he said, which is what he called her. When they were good, he called her “And How,” which wasn’t very funny, but as far as he could tell she liked it. Or at least she didn’t seem to hate it.
“And, honey, I wish you were here with me.”
She breathed into the phone, and Paul stood on his childhood lawn in Moreland Hills waiting for his wife to speak. Even when she wasn’t speaking, even over the phone, he loved her desperately.
In cold tones she finally said, “I wish I were there, too, Paul. Me and Jack, to meet your family. Did you tell them?”
“I did,” Paul said. “I mean I told my sister about you and then just now at dinner I did. I tried to.”
“You tried to.”
“I just got here. I really only just landed. It’s been intense. I’ll tell them more. I want to. How could I not tell them about something so great?”
“Because maybe you don’t think it’s great? Because you’re ashamed of us. Because you didn’t tell them when you met me, and you didn’t tell them when Jack was born, and now you still haven’t told them.”
“And.”
“I’m sorry.” She sighed. “I don’t mean it. You know I don’t.”
They made up, saying all the reparative things, but it went only so far. Andrea assured him that everything was forgiven, except when he hung up and went inside it didn’t feel as if everything, or even anything, had been forgiven.
Inside, from the hallway, he watched his family watching TV, until his mother looked up and saw him. “Pauly, come,” she called. “Come sit.” She held her arms open wide.
The Berger family reunion was being thrown in the conference room of the Holiday Inn downtown. Paul put on a nice shirt but left it untucked because his belly showed too much. There was a lot of grooming in the house, hectic and nervous, as if they were all going on dates. When he couldn’t stand it anymore, Paul went to wait in the car.
They parked downtown. The long black towers were lit up, so they did have windows after all. What amazed Paul was that the windows were round, like portholes on a ship. From a high floor in one of the towers, looking out your window, he imagined, would be like looking out from a cruise liner and seeing only air. Air and tiny buildings, tiny people below.
When they walked into the reunion, Billy Idol was on the stereo. The song “White Wedding.”
“Seriously?” Paul said to Alicia, looking around at the few other Bergers who had also arrived on time. The very old Bergers, wearing woollen suits and standing in a circle, whom he wouldn’t be talking to tonight. They held fishbowl-size cocktails and soon it would be their bedtime.
“Seriously what, Paul?”
“Can we do something about the playlist?”
He tapped his foot, scanned the room. Would his cousin Carla be here? Not just a kissing cousin but a third-base cousin. Third base on more than a few occasions.
“Do whatever you want. There’s the d.j. Just remember that people have been planning this party for months while you’ve been, what was it, down at the docks having sex with children. Right?”
It was stupid to fight about it, and as the song thumped and shook the room with its black acoustics, hysterical and threatening, Paul had to admit that he’d really always liked it. More than liked it. Kind of totally loved the song, even though he had never admitted this to anyone. It was possibly a great song.
It’s a nice day for a . . . white wedding-uh.
The Berger cousins came, and with them came their spit-polished children, ready to destroy the world and have someone clean up after them. Soon there were tribes of kids running in packs, sweating and flushed in their fancy clothes, following some ancient order of clan logic that baffled Paul. Occasionally one of them would be yanked from the pack and forced to run a gantlet of ogling older Bergers, who poked and kissed and hugged him until he broke free and returned to his friends, half raped and traumatized.
The kids made the whole thing [REDACTED], Paul thought, because you could stand alone and watch them without being seen as a pathetic wallflower, unable to navigate a party and make conversation with your own miserable flesh and blood.
Paul set up shop at the drinks table, sucking down glass after glass of seltzer. He was chewing on ice when he heard his name.
“No fucking way,” some enormous man was saying. “You are fucking kidding me! Paul, you bastard.”
Through the fat and flesh and alcohol-swollen skin Paul saw Carl, his father’s brother’s son. Carla’s brother, actually, which begged questions about naming strategy. Or, really, about basic mental competence.
“Dude!” Carl yelled. “I thought you’d written everyone off. What’s up?” And he threw open his arms for a hug.
Paul leaned in to Carl’s heat and musk. He would hold his breath and do it, because maybe Carl had hugged Carla today and Paul could get a contact high.
A scrum of kids crashed into them, then tore off laughing. An intentional attack on the overweight forty-year-olds at the drinks table? Paul and Carl watched them go, hug deferred.
“You got some of those?” Paul asked.
“Oh, yeah,” Carl said. “Afraid so.”
They caught up, if that’s what you called crunching twenty years into a reunion sound bite, and Paul found it easy to tell Carl about Andrea and little Jack. It wasn’t hard at all. Carl blinked and maybe he was listening to Paul or maybe he didn’t care. Soon Carl was scanning the room, looking behind Paul as he spoke, raising his chin now and then at someone going by. Little smirks of hello from [REDACTED] Carl, working the room while standing still.
“It was hard going for a while there,” Paul said, and Carl smiled and fist-pumped to someone across the room, doing a little bit of air guitar, then grabbed Paul by his shoulders.
 “Dude, it was amazing to see you. I’ve got to go and feed Louis or I’m going to catch serious hell.” And then Carl was gone and Paul went to the back of the drinks line, which was now very long, to get himself another glass of seltzer.
Paul danced. He danced with his mother, who was beautiful in an emerald-green dress. When his mother tired, which was halfway through the first song, he walked her to their table and grabbed Alicia, who looked [REDACTED], too, and they danced to Marvin Gaye and Def Leppard and Poison and then, with Rick joining them, to Blondie’s “Heart of Glass.”
It wasn’t bad to dance. Dancing was better than not dancing. He was tired and sweaty and he felt good. Finally he collapsed at the family table, where his parents were already eating, along with some relatives he must have met before. They staredat Paul as if he were bleeding from the face.
“What do you say, Dad?” Paul shouted. “Are you going to dance?”
His father just studied him. They all did.
“Paul here is doing quite well,” his father said to everyone at the table. “He’s become a professional woodworker, doing joinery at a high-end cabinet shop.”
“It’s not really a big deal,” Paul mumbled.
“It is, though,” his father said. “It takes years of training and a whole hell of a lot of skill to be a real woodworker.”
“It’s kind of automated now,” Paul said quietly. “They have jigs.”
“It’s great that they hired you,” some old man said, getting in his dig. Meaning he’dhave never hired Paul.
“Used to be you had to cut twenty sets of dovetails to even get asked on a crew,” his father said.
“Wow,” Paul said.
“Twenty sets. By hand. Using a Jap saw.”
“I could never do that,” Paul admitted.
“No?” his father asked.
Was he leering at Paul? His own father?
“You’re a mortise-and-tenon man. My word. Those are even harder, though, right? Makes dovetails look easy. Or do I have my information wrong?”
“I do those, but, like I said, there’s a jig.”
“So not by hand?”
“God, no, Dad. No way.”
“I’d like to see one of these jugs sometime. You’ll have to show me. Show me how the whole thing works now that everything’s changed.”
Paul looked at his father, and at his mother, who was chewing her dinner with the care of a professional taster, and he looked at the other relatives around the table, who carried with them a narrative of Paul that he could never, no matter what, revise. A narrative that favored the outcome, a father with unexplained bruises, rather than the really elaborate subtext and context and supporting architecture that fucking deeply informs single events—accidents—that somehow get out of control. These people would have to die for Paul to be free. Which was bullshit, he knew. It was Paul who would have to die.
“I’d love to do that, Dad,” Paul said.
His father regarded him across the dinner table with a face that no longer showed any fear. Who are you? Who are you, really? his father’s face seemed to ask.
Paul excused himself to get another drink. He asked if he could get anything for anyone while he was up, drinks or food, but they were all fine, they said, and waved him off.
From across the room, he saw his cousin Carla. She was circling a table of kids like a waitress, and she was still utterly lovely. What a girl she had been, and now she looked just the same. Exactly the same. He watched her, amazed, wondering which kids were hers, or if, fuck, all of them were, but he couldn’t stand not saying hello right away, so he ran up to her.
Carla beamed. Paul beamed. They said holy shit and hugged tight. She was small in his arms, so little and warm against his body, whereas Andrea was big, and taller than him, and incredible, of course, in her own way. This wasn’t knocking Andrea. He loved her. But Carla was tiny! Oh, my God. It felt good to hold her.
Paul wanted to get her alone, but that was ridiculous. They held hands down at their waists. Carla talked fast, smiling, radiant. She said that things were great and she lived in the Twin Cities. Just one of them! She assistant-nursed part time at the children’s hospital and she had three kids and she’d finally gotten her master’s in something that Paul didn’t make out. It was hard to hear. It was loud and horrible and dark in there, and it was so hot that everyone stank. Plus he wanted her all to himself.
“Let’s go have a cigarette,” Paul suggested. “We can sit on the steps out front.”
He didn’t smoke, didn’t even have cigarettes, but Carla followed.
Together they sat in front of the Holiday Inn, watching the valet wait for cars to pull up.
Carla laughed out of nowhere.
“What?” Paul said quietly. A voice inside him, very far away, was telling him, unpersuasively, not to seem so engrossed. It was unbecoming to fawn.
Carla covered her mouth, shook her head. A gesture of amused disbelief.
“I’ll just never forget something you said to me, Paul. I still remember it.”
“What did I say?” He was proud in advance of this terribly clever thing he’d said as a kid. So clever that Carla had never forgotten it!
“You said, ‘What is a cousin for if you can’t put your finger in her vagina?’ ”
Paul closed his eyes. “I did not. Please tell me I didn’t say that.”
“Oh, you did.” Carla laughed. “Several times.”
He shook his head. “I am so sorry. What an asshole.”
“You were bad!” she yelled, and she slapped his leg, laughing.
He nodded. “I was bad. I think I still am.”
“Oh?”
Carla took this as flirtation rather than self-pity. Whatever Paul had once been—the rogue, troubled high-schooler, doing stupid shit and justifying it with arcane philosophical arguments—he wasn’t those things anymore. No way.
“You still coming to blows with Daddy Morton?”
“No.”
Paul chuckled and shrugged it off. A real conversation was out of the question, and that was probably for the best.
“So,” she said. “Wife, kids? Wait, no, let me guess. You’re gay. You’re gay! Is that what you mean by being bad? Oh, my God, you’re not gay, are you? Jesus, Paul.”
The old Paul, the [REDACTED] Paul, would have said, Should I finger you to disprove it? But tonight’s Paul, new or old, disgusted with himself or just tired, tried to smile. He didn’t have to uphold any principles in front of a shitty hotel with a woman he’d never see again. Though hand sex with a cousin occupied an unassailable place in the erotic universe—he’d stand and testify to that if he had to, and he felt sorry for anyone who hadn’t tried it.
Paul looked up at the black tower with the shining portholes, the bright, glowing orbs rising into the sky like spotlights. He said how cool the tower was, how unusual. It was unlike any other building he’d seen.
Carla made a face and said, “Blech.”
“What?”
“That’s our hotel,” she said.
“It’s a hotel?”
“Yeah. We didn’t want to stay there, but there were no rooms anywhere else. I guess they can’t get any guests, so it’s empty. I kind of hate it, to be honest. It’s weird. But it’s cheap, and that’s good, because this trip cost us a fucking fortune. Holy smoke.”
“Oh,” Paul said.
They both looked at it again. If Andrea were here, she’d get it. Or maybe she wouldn’t. How could he know?
“Well, I guess I should be heading inside,” Carla said, and that was that, a big flameout.
“Yeah, back to the Bergers,” Paul said.
The Bergers. His mother and father. Alicia. Rick, who wasn’t a Berger in name but loved the Bergers more than the Bergers did. Paul’s son, Jack, was a Berger, too, of course, one of the youngest, and so was Andrea, even though she hadn’t changed her name. He could have been strolling through the reunion right now holding Jack and showing off Andrea to everyone. But the idea had been to test the waters. Even Andrea had agreed that Paul should visit [REDACTED] alone first. And when she’d said this he had been so relieved that he’d had to hide it from her. It wasn’t that he didn’t want his family to meet Andrea; it was that he didn’t want her to see him here. Him with his family. That was the concern. The Paul of [REDACTED], with his mean tone and low aims. She’d hate him forever.
Just then an ambulance pulled up and some paramedics tumbled out. They sprang the stretcher and pushed it right up to where Carla and Paul were sitting, stopping to hoist it over their heads and carry it up the steps, into the Holiday Inn.
Paul and Carla watched it go.
“You think that’s for a Berger?” Paul cracked.
“It’d better not be,” Carla said. “If Beaner choked I’m going to rip my husband’s heart out.”
She disappeared inside and Paul remained on the steps, thinking maybe he’d call home. Or maybe he’d cross the street to the black hotel and ride the elevator to the top so he could look through one of those portholes. Except what was so special about that building, anyway? He’d forgotten.
That night, before getting into bed, he set his alarm, packed his bags, scheduled a car service. It had been easy enough to change his flight, but all they’d had was one leaving at 4 a.m. It didn’t really matter. He figured he’d sleep for two hours, then wait outside for the car, so that no one else would have to wake up. Plus, this way he’d skip all the weird goodbyes. With luck he’d be home by late morning. He could dismiss the sitter, take Jack to the park. He couldn’t decide what would be better, leaving Andrea a voice mail or surprising her when she came home from work.
Rick walked into the bathroom while Paul was brushing his teeth, then backed out, apologizing. Through a foam of toothpaste Paul told him it was [REDACTED], waved him in. This would be their peaceful encounter, Rick sitting on the toilet lid waiting for Paul to spit and rinse.
“That was fun tonight,” Paul said.
“It was so great.” Rick shook his head. “And the toasts, oh my gosh. Amazing.”
The toasts. Paul must have been outside.
“What your mom said. I mean, I choked up. That was just . . .”
Paul could only agree. What his mom said. Never in his life had he seen his mother make a toast.
“I love family,” Rick said. “All of that family, together.”
“Oh, hey, did someone get hurt tonight?” Paul asked.
Rick looked confused, as if this were one of Paul’s trick questions.
“I saw a stretcher go into the hotel,” Paul explained. “I thought maybe something happened.”
“Hmm, no,” Rick said. “I mean, not that I know of. But I was dancing it out pretty hard.”
“[REDACTED], that’s good,” Paul said. “Tell my sister good night.”
“Will do, buddy. Good night yourself.”
The two hours of sleep didn’t happen. Paul lay awake and looked at the clock until eventually it was time to wait outside for the car. He crept downstairs with his bags, dropped them at the door. He’d get a drink of water in the kitchen, maybe grab some fruit for the trip.
At the kitchen table, shuffling an amber colony of pill bottles, sat his mother. She didn’t hear him come in, and he startled her.
She clutched her robe, looked past him into the dark hallway. Why was it that he still frightened her?
“Pauly, what are you doing?”
He mumbled, wishing he hadn’t come in. His car would be here in a few minutes, and now he’d have to say goodbye.
His mother noticed his coat, figured it out, and he couldn’t tell if she was disappointed or relieved. Why not both?
“I have to get back,” he said. “I’m sorry.”
“Paul, for what? Stay with us. Why do you have to go?”
This was it. His sweet mother was sitting here asking. He would tell her.
“I’m a father, Mom. I’m married. We have a little boy. Jack. We call him Jackie. He’s two, Mom. He’s already two!”
His mother cried.
“Pauly, it’s [REDACTED], honey. I don’t know how else to tell you, but it’s [REDACTED] and we love you and we will always love you, and I just wish you believed us. You are our little Paul, always.”
She reached out to him across the table and he took her hands.
“But, Mom, it’s true.”
Had he really lied that much? Was his credibility gone forever?
“Sweetheart, I know it is. Of course it’s true. I would love to meet him, I mean, to see him. What was his name, your boy?”
Oh, God, did he yell. He yelled the most awful things. He hit the table, stood up too fast. Something fell over, and now his mother truly wept, and she threw her arms up as if he were about to strike her. But why would he hit his own mother?
For years he would attempt to dismantle this moment. It was among the most useless activities a mind could pursue, the revision of shit that had really fucking happened, yet somehow it became the activity his mind fell into the most.
He heard his name, barked by his father.
His dad was here now. Why not Alicia? Why not Rick? Get everyone together.
“Paul, you will not do this. Not to your mother.”
His father trembled, ready for battle.
“I’m not, Dad. I’m not doing anything.”
Paul backed away, giving his poor father courage.
“You go now, Paul. Just go.”
“[REDACTED], I will. I’m sorry. I was telling Mom something. About my son.”
“We believe you, Paul. We really do believe you. The woodworking, the family. We do.”
Together they nodded up at him. Just tell him what he wants to hear and maybe he’ll leave! Were they even his family? Was this even his home? Or maybe they did believe him, and this was simply what it felt like to be believed. It felt wrong—it felt like nothing.
Paul determined that if anyone asked him, in the years to come, he’d say that if you’ve ever scared someone, even accidentally or as a joke, that person will flinch when he sees you. Even if you did it because you yourself were scared, because you were small-minded, or small-hearted, or because you had small aims and should never have been let out of your cage when your little life began. You might not notice it, but the people you have scared will flinch, on the inside. You will have to cross the street and give those people a wide berth. It is the most considerate thing to do. Just let them pass.
He left the house and rode the car service through the dark streets of [REDACTED] to the airport. He’d fly home, take the shuttle to his apartment. When he’d settled in, maybe he’d write his parents a letter. Put together a photo album, Xerox the marriage and the birth certificates. Would that suffice? He’d tie up a bundle and mail it to them. In their own time, they could examine the evidence of their son’s new life. They could do it without him standing there. Paul would send all the proof he had and then he would wait. He’d be many miles away, where he could do no harm. At their leisure, they could examine the parts of their son that would not hurt them. 

