
Above And Below
By Lauren Groff
She’d been kept awake all night by the palm berries clattering on the roof, and when she woke to the sun blazing through the window she’d had enough. Goodbye to all that! she sang, moving the little she owned to the station wagon: her ex-boyfriend’s guitar, the camping equipment they’d bought the first year of grad school (their single night on the Suwannee, they were petrified by the bellows of bull gators), a crate of books. Goodbye to the hundreds of others she was leaving stacked against the wall: Worthless, the man had told her when she tried to sell them.
Goodbye to the glass mountain of debt she was slithering out from underneath. Goodbye to the hunter-orange eviction notice. Goodbye to longing. She would be empty now, having chosen to lose.
The apartment was a shell, scoured to enamel. She breathed fully when she stepped out onto the porch. There was a brief swim of vertigo only when she shooed the cat out the door. Oh, you’ll be all right, she said, and reached for the silky fur between his ears, but, as quick as a blink, he struck at her. When she looked up from the four jagged lines slowly beading with blood on the back of her hand, he had leaped away. Then he, too, was gone.
She drove past the brick university, where the first-years were already unloading their sedans, their parents hugging their own shoulders for comfort. Goodbye, she said aloud to the tune of the tires humming on the road.
After a summer with the power shut off, a summer of reading by the open window in her sweat-soaked underwear, the car’s air-conditioner felt frigid. She opened the window and smelled the queer dank musk of deep-country [REDACTED]. Out here, people decorated their yards with big rocks and believed they could talk to God. Here, “Derrida” was only French for rear end.
She thrust her fist out the window and relaxed it slowly. She could almost see her hopes peeling from her palm and skipping down the road in her wake: the books with her name on them; the sabbatical in Florence; the gleaming modern house at the edge of the woods. Gone.
When she looked at her hand again, it was puffy and hot and oozing. She put it to her mouth. When she stopped at last at the edge of a little oceanside town and gazed over the dune grass at the sea, her tongue was coppery with the taste of blood.
Someone had left a cooler on the beach, and it still held a bag of apples, a half-eaten sandwich, two Cokes. She sat, watching the dusk turn mustard and watermelon, and ate everything. Seabirds clustered on the wet sand, then winged apart into the air. When it grew too dark for her to see, she took the cooler back to the car and walked up to A1A to a pay phone. 
She was poised to hang up if her stepfather answered, but it was her mother, vague and slow, saying, Hello? Hello?
She couldn’t speak. She imagined her mother in her nightgown in the kitchen, a sunset, the neighbor kids playing outside.
Hello? her mother said again, and she managed, Hello, Mom.
Honey, her mother said. What a treat to hear from you.
Mom, she said. I just wanted to let you know that I moved. I don’t have a new number yet, though.
She waited, feeling the sunburn begin to prickle in her cheeks, but her mother said only, Is that so?, absently. Ever since she’d been remarried, she’d had chronic idiopathic pain, treated, also chronically, with painkillers. She hadn’t remembered her daughter’s birthday for three years; she’d sent empty care packages more than once. One hot July day, when the girl had stared at her sickening bank balance at the A.T.M., she’d considered calling for help. But she’d known, somehow, that the envelope would also arrive empty.
Over the line, there was the sound of an engine drawing close, and her mother said, Oh! Your dad’s home. They both listened to the slam of the door and the heavy boots on the steps and she thought but didn’t say, That man is not my dad.
Instead she said, Mom, I just want you to not worry if you don’t hear from me for a while, O.K.? I’m all right, I promise.
All right, honey, her mother said, her voice already softer, anticipating her husband’s arrival. Don’t do anything I wouldn’t do.
As the girl walked back on the road, headlights spinning by in the dark, she said aloud, I’m doing exactly what you would do, and laughed, but it wasn’t very funny, after all.
During the day, she lay in the sun for hours until she was so thirsty she had to fill her camping water bottle at the foot-washing hose again and again. In the rearview mirror, she watched her skin toast and her hair shift from honey to lemon. Her clothes flapped on her. She thought of the thousands of dollars she’d spent on highlights over the years: all that anguish, all those diets, when all she needed to be pretty was laziness and some mild starvation! She ate cans of tuna and sleeves of crackers and drank an occasional coffee from the beach café, for pep. Her money dwindled alarmingly. The scar on her hand turned a lovely silver in the sun and she sometimes stroked it absently, signifier in lieu of signified, the scratch for the lost life.
At night, she lay in the back of the station wagon and read “Middlemarch” with a penlight until she fell asleep.
When she smelled too strong for salt water to wash the stink away, she walked into the gym of a fancy beachside condo complex in her running clothes. She waited for someone to yell at her, but nobody was watching. The bathroom was empty and the vanities held baskets with lotions, tiny soaps, disposable razors. She stood in the shower and let her summer of loneliness wash away. Even before her boyfriend left her for a first-year master’s student, she’d withdrawn into herself. Her funding hadn’t been renewed and she’d had only her T.A. stipend, which was barely enough for her half of the rent, let alone groceries. There was no going out, even if she could have swallowed her shame to look her funded friends in the eye. The boyfriend had taken everything with him: their Sunday brunches, the etiquette book he had unsubtly given her one Christmas, the alarm clock that woke them ten minutes before six every day. He had been a stickler for the proper way to do things—hospital corners, weight lifting, taking notes—and he’d stolen her routine from her when he left. Worst of all, he’d taken his parents, who had welcomed her for four years of holidays in their generous stone house in [REDACTED]. For weeks, she had expected the mother, a soft-haired, hugging woman, to call her, but there was no call.
The door opened and voices flooded the bathroom, some aerobics class letting out. She turned to wash her face in the spray, suddenly shy. When she opened her eyes, the showers were full of naked middle-aged women laughing and soaping themselves. They wore diamond bands and their teeth shone and their bellies and thighs were larded by their easy lives.
She woke to a hard rapping next to her ear and struggled up through sleep into darkness. She turned on her penlight to see a groin in stretched black fabric, and a shining leather belt hung with a gun in a holster and an enormous flashlight.
A cop, she thought. Penis of death, penis of light.
Open up, the policeman said, and she said, Yes, sir, and slid over the back seat and rolled down the window.
What are you smiling at? he said.
Nothing, sir, she said, and turned off her penlight.
You been here a week, he said. I been watching you.
Yes, sir, she said.
It’s illegal, he said. Now, I get a kid once in a while doesn’t want to pay for a motel, O.K. I get some old hippies in their vans. But you’re a young girl. Hate to see you get hurt. There are bad guys everywhere, you know?
I know, she said. I keep my doors locked.
He snorted. Yeah, well, he said. Then he paused. You run away from your man? That the story? There’s a safe house for ladies up in town. I can get you in.
No, she said. There’s no story. I guess I’m on a vacation from my life.
Well, he said, and the looseness in his voice was gone. Get on out of here. Don’t let me see you back, or I’ll take you in for vagrancy.
She spent a few days on a different beach where people drove their trucks onto the sand and pumped out music until their batteries ran down. She dug again into the wagon’s seats to find change for a candy bar but failed, and walked the miles into town to consider what she should do, her legs shaking by the time she arrived.
The buildings on the town square looked like old [REDACTED]—the tall porches with fans, the tin roofs—but everything was made of a dense plastic in shades of beige. There was a fountain in the center: a squat frog spitting up water, and change scattered on the blue tiles under the water. She sat on the edge of the fountain and watched the shoppers in the boutiques and the people eating ice-cream cones.
At one corner of the square stood a small brick church, flanked by blooming crape myrtles. She didn’t notice the people gathering in front until they began to emerge with hands full of Styrofoam clamshells and juice packs. Some were stringy, greasy, the familiar life-beaten people who lived half-visibly at the edge of the university town she’d come from. But there were also construction workers in hardhats, mothers hurrying away with kids in their wakes.
She wanted to stand. To be in the line, to get the food. Her body, though, wouldn’t move. In the twilight, a family passed and she thought how she had once been this blond toddler on her tricycle, singing to herself, while her parents walked behind her. How sudden the disturbance had been! Her father dead when she was ten, the struggle with money through high school, her mother marrying in exhaustion only to fold herself entirely away. The one safe place the girl had had left was school. But she’d been too careful in the end, unable to take the necessary scholarly risks, and they had withdrawn even that from her.
She sat like a second frog on the edge of the fountain, hunched over her hunger, until the clock clicked to an impossibly late hour and she was alone. She rolled up her jeans and stepped into the water. She felt along the bottom with her feet until she came upon a coin, and dipped her arm up to her shoulder, but almost all the change was glued to the tile. By the time she had gone entirely around, she had gathered only a small handful. When she peered at them in the dim light from the street lamp, she found they were mostly pennies. Still, she went around again. She saw herself from a great distance, a woman stooping in knee-deep water for someone else’s wishes.
Most days, she found food—bread and bruised fruit—heaped, clean, in a dumpster behind a specialty grocer. She hid the station wagon at the far end of a supermarket parking lot, next to a retainer pool and shielded by the low branches of a camphor tree. The smell entered her dreams at night and she’d wake to a slow green sway of branches, as if underwater. There was a Baudelaire poem this reminded her of, but it had been erased from her memory. She wondered what else was gone—the Goethe, the Shakespeare, the Montale. The sun was bleaching it all to dust; her hunger was eating it up. It was a cleansing, she decided. If pretty words couldn’t save her, then losing them, too, was all for the best.
She was baking on the beach when a leaf slid up over her stomach. She caught idly at it, and found that it wasn’t a leaf at all but a five-dollar bill.
That night, she went into the poolside showers of an apartment complex and washed herself carefully. When she caught sight of herself naked in the mirror, she could see the ribs of her upper chest and the pulse in the curve of her hip bone. But she blow-dried her hair and put it into a ponytail and applied makeup that she’d bought a few years ago. She no longer looked like herself: diligent, plump, prim. She looked like a surfer girl or a sorority sister, one of those quivering dewy creatures she had always silently disliked.
She walked three miles to a beach bar, listening to the ocean break itself again and again. The place was full when she came up through the back door, the huge televisions blaring a football game. Once, she would have been invested in the game, if only because it was the lingua franca of the Southern town, the way to put a freshman-comp class at ease, to converse with a dean’s vapid wife. But now it seemed silly to her; young men grinding into one another, war games muted with padding.
She ordered the dollar-special beer and gave the bartender another dollar for a tip. His fingers brushed hers when he handed her the change, and she was startled at the warmth of his flesh. She peeled the label off her beer and took deep breaths.
Someone climbed onto the stool beside hers, and she looked at him when he ordered two gin-and-tonics. He was a sweet-looking sandy boy with large red ears, the kind of student who always got a B- in her classes, mostly on good-willed effort alone. He slid one of the drinks toward her shyly, and when he began to speak he didn’t stop. He was a junior up north but had had to take a semester off and was working in his mother’s real-estate office for now, which really pissed off the old agents there, because there were few enough commissions right now, real estate going to shit in this shitty, shitty time. And on and on. After three drinks, she was drunker than she’d ever let herself be. She wondered, as he spoke, what had happened to make him take a semester off. Drugs? A hazing scandal? Bad grades? When they stopped on the walk to his house and he pressed her shoulders against the cold metal of a street light and kissed her with touching earnestness, she felt the soft hair at the base of his neck and thought he’d probably had a nervous breakdown. He kissed like a boy prone to anxiety attacks.
But she liked him, and his apartment was clean and pretty: she could sense the hand of an overbearing mother in its furnishings. Before he touched her he looked at her naked body for a long time, blinking. She saw herself, then, as he did: the clean white of her bikini pressed into her skin, the eroticism of the contrast. In gratitude, she came toward him.
But, afterward, the softness of the bed was overwhelming. As the boy slept, she went to the kitchen and opened the refrigerator. It was so full, the abundance stilled her. She ate a slice of cold pizza standing in the glow, opened a jar of pickles and ate three, ripped a hunk of [REDACTED] from the block with her fingers and gobbled it down. She didn’t see the boy standing in the doorway until she reached for the orange juice. Then she noticed the pale gleam of his T-shirt and she closed her eyes, unable to look at him.
She could hear him walking toward her and steeled herself for recrimination. But he touched the small of her back and said a soft, Oh, honey, and this was infinitely worse. 
A hurricane developed over the Caribbean but only its edges lashed the shore. Still, during the scream and blow, the camphor rattled its branches against the top of the car and the wagon shook so hard she was afraid the metal would twist and the glass would break. The retention pond overflowed and water licked up to the hubcaps. She lay as quietly as she could and listened and watched: she was a thin shell of glass and steel from the raw nerve at the center of herself. She felt the storm come closer, charging near; she waited with a painful breathless patience. But before it arrived she fell asleep. She called her mother on Thanksgiving but her stepfather answered and said her mother was in bed again, under the weather. Not that she cared. They’d given up on her coming home, but couldn’t she call her damn mother once a month?
She held the receiver up to the highway and let him speak himself out, and in a pause said to tell her mother that she loved her and would call again soon. She sat for a while on a dune, shivering in the cold wind. The ocean was blank and inexpressive, withholding sympathy. At last, she was numbed enough that she could walk to the town and stand in the long line outside the church. Today they were serving people in seatings, and the line moved very slowly.
Most of the people at the table looked normal. Across from her was a family, the mother with a chic black haircut and tattoos across her collarbone, the father with an artful mullet, the two little girls with barrettes in their bangs. Next to her was an enormous black woman whose flesh pressed up to hers, firm and warm. Nobody spoke. There was a soup course—home-made minestrone with good bread—then the turkey course with canned everything: cranberries, mashed potatoes, stuffing, gravy, beans. And, last, there was homemade pecan and pumpkin pie with coffee.
When the woman serving their table bent over to clear the pie plates, the black lady grasped her gloved hand. They all looked up to see the serving woman’s startled face under her shower cap. Thank you, the black lady said, that was goooood, and the little girls laughed. The girl expected awkwardness, a hurrying away, but the serving woman briefly laid her cheek atop the black lady’s head and gave her a squeeze, and both women closed their eyes as they leaned closer in.
It had been a rare warm day, and she’d built wind walls out of sand and soaked the last of the season’s sunshine into her skin. Now she dropped her towel and book and water bottle and stared in wonder at the station wagon. All the doors were open, her things spilling out. Her car had been gutted; her things were entrails. The hood was open, the engine gone. The tires were gone, the hubcaps gone, the front seats gone. Inside, a strong stench of urine: someone had pissed in the glove box. The guitar was gone, the camping stove, the tent, her childhood stuffed turtle, her winter jacket. “Middlemarch,” of all fucking things, gone. Her backpack had a long slit in it.
She gathered what she could—the sleeping bag, “Paradise Lost,” some clothes, a tarp. She found some dental floss and a needle and sewed up the backpack. Then she took the registration from the glove box and ripped it up—wet, it tore easily—and tossed the license plate into the retention pond, where it floated on the duckweed for a moment before it sank.
How light she thought she had been before. How truly light she was now.
She should be leaving anyway—it was too cold now, with the wind off the ocean. There were Santas in the store windows, in piles of fake snow.
Out on A1A, the cars screamed by her and threw exhaust in her face. She stuck out her thumb, and a tan sedan rolled to a stop. The driver was pale and nervous, and somewhere inside her alarm bells began to ring, but she found she didn’t care to listen. He said he was going back to the university town, and she thought of her ex, her friends, her fall from safety. She found she didn’t care about those things, either.
She could feel the ocean pulling at her back, but didn’t turn to say goodbye. It had failed to do what she had longed for it to do; it had been indifferent, after all. Over the inland waterway, with its tiny islands and corrugated bridge, into the palmetto scrub. Somewhere along a stretch of road bordered by pines in strict formation, the man put a hand on her knee and squinted, straining, toward the empty asphalt ahead. She gently removed his hand and he didn’t try again. He turned on the radio and they listened to sticky love ballads. In town, he dropped her at the downtown plaza and squealed away, to the loud derision of two old men at the bus stop. They grinned at her and, together, blew pink bubbles with their gum and one by one let them pop.
Just before the public library closed for the night, she rode the elevator to the top floor and went into the grand, stained-glass conference room set like a crown at the top of the building. She’d discovered an unlocked closet behind a leaning blackboard, barely long enough to hold her body in its sleeping bag. In the dark of the closet, she ate what she found during the day and listened to the library empty out. It was orange season, and she plucked satsumas for breakfast and spat the pips into her hand.
She neglected to call her mother for Christmas or New Year’s. When she tried to read during the day the words lost their meaning and floated loosely in her eyes.
She didn’t make it to the library in time one evening, and spent the night shivering in her light jean jacket. She was walking by a club that had just closed when a cluster of undergraduates in strapless dresses tottered by, fingering their cell phones. She recognized one of them, a girl from her fall comp-lit class last year. She’d been a frightened, silent thing who’d earned her C-. No matter how hard she was drilled, “its” and “it’s” had eluded the girl. Tonight, if she and the girl came face to face, the girl would look through her former instructor, not seeing her in this worn, dirty woman; and she, whose words had once lashed, would have nothing to say.
Its, it’s, she said aloud now. Who cares?
A man stacking the chairs in the front patio area heard her and laughed. Twits, he agreed.
She leaned against the railing and watched him work. He was a skinny, short brown man and exceptionally fast: he’d already rolled the rubber mats and was hosing down the bricks when she realized he was still talking to her. I’m telling you, he was saying, get sillier and sillier each damn day, filling up those heads with tweeters and scooters and facebooks and starbooks and shit. He looked up at her and grinned. His four front teeth were gone, and it gave him the mischievous air of a six-year-old. Name’s Euclid, but everyone calls me Euclid-Euclean. I clean, right? I got three of these clubs to set right before morning so’s I can’t stop to chat.
O.K., she said, and took a step, but he meant he couldn’t stop; he could still chat. This land, he told her, is full of living twits and unsettled spirits, both. The spirits were loud and unhappy and filled the place with evil. All them dead Spanish missionaries and snakebit Seminoles and starved-to-death Crackers and shit. He, Euclid-Euclean, come down from [REDACTED] near on four years back and got infected with the spirits and they were inside him and he couldn’t find his way to leave.
By now they were inside the booze-stinking club and Euclid had poured her a glass of cranberry juice. He began to mop the floor with a bleach solution so strong it made her eyes water. He looked up at her and stopped, struck by a thought. I like you, he said. You keep your words in tight.
Thanks, Euclid, she said.
I could use some help, he said. Three clubs is hard to clean alone by morningtime come. You could do bathrooms, stuff like that. You got you a job?
No, she said.
He looked at her shrewdly and said, Fifty bucks Thursday, Friday, Saturday nights, twenty bucks other nights. Monday off.
She blinked at the empty bucket he thrust into her hands. Partner, he said.
There was a sensation in cleaning that she used to get in her other lifetime, when the books she was reading were so compelling they carried her through hours. Words were space carved out of life, warm and safe. Polishing windows to perfect clarity, scrubbing porcelain, working caustic chemicals into the tiles until they gleamed like teeth; all this detached her mind from herself. She grew hard muscles in her skinny arms.
In the mornings, she would walk into the cold and feel herself wrung out. Euclid-Euclean sometimes bought her breakfast and they’d sit, stinking of chemicals, in their booth, surrounded by the smells of warm grease and hot coffee. She wanted to laugh with him, to tell him of the horror of her mother’s house when she was little, the cockroaches and the dirt-crusted linoleum, how strange it was she was cleaning now, but Euclid spoke so much she had no need to say anything. He’d tell her about his talking dog when he was a kid, or he’d describe his moments of illumination, when the world slowed and the Devil spoke in his ear until he was chased away by the brightness that grew inside Euclid and bathed the world in light. 
She took a room by the week in a squat cement motel sticking out over the highway. It was called Affordable–Best Price–Comfortable, but she had to borrow some chemicals and rags from Euclid to make the bathroom usable. She liked the sound of the trucks rumbling past and the steady rhythms of her neighbors’ voices and the boys who hung out at the roasted-chicken place next door, with their swooping boasts and hoots of derision.
One morning, she was walking home to the motel when she saw a familiar bicycle at the coffee shop where she used to grade papers. She looked in the window, hiding her face with her baseball cap. Two of her former friends sat at a table, both frowning into their laptops. How fat they looked, how pink. They were nursing their plain black coffees, and she remembered, with a surge of ugliness, how they all used to complain that they were too poor for lattes. How rich they had been. It was a kind of wealth you don’t know you have until you stand shivering outside in the morning, watching what you used to be. One of her friends, the man, sensing eyes upon him, slowly looked up. A knot pulled tight in her gut, but, when he looked past her to a sleek young woman gliding by on a bicycle, the knot frayed and broke apart.
One Saturday in March, at their last club, she looked up to see Euclid-Euclean swaying on his feet. He was staring at the air ducts above with a taut look of ecstasy on his face. She couldn’t get to him before he fell over. His body was rigid, his jaw grinding. She heaved him onto a table and considered an ambulance, then dismissed it, because he had no money for medical care: he was saving for a bridge for his missing teeth. He always came out of it, he had told her. The Devil was fought off by the light in him. All she had to do was wait.
She went back to cleaning. When she was finished, she polished all the glasses and wiped the fur of dust from the bottles on the top shelves. She squeegeed the windows.
When people in work clothes began passing by outside, it was time. When she came near Euclid-Euclean, however, she smelled a terrible odor and found that he had voided his bowels. She heaved him into a chair and dragged him to the bathroom and cleaned him as well as she could. She threw his pants and underwear and socks and shoes into the dumpster out back and fashioned a kind of loincloth from her sweatshirt. His van was parked out back, and she wrestled him up into the back, and laid him out on a bundle of clean rags.
She didn’t know where he lived, or if he had loved ones. She hadn’t asked anything about him, had only listened to what he’d chosen to tell. She left a note on his chest and locked the van, and when she returned in the afternoon to check on him the van was gone, and he was gone, and though she waited for him at the clubs every night for the next week, none of the hungry, idle people in the plaza or the night-club managers knew or would tell her where he was.
A cold wind blew in one April night and killed the most fragile plants. Across town, there were skeletons of ferns and banana plants and camellias. In the morning, the small, frowning Thai woman who owned Affordable–Best Price–Comfortable knocked on the door and waited, silent and cross-armed, in the doorway, until she had packed up, put on her shoes and jacket, and left the room.
At noon, she followed the slow-moving parade of the indigent to the plaza, and received a sandwich in plastic and a can of juice. At six, she followed them to the Methodist church and was served milk with a sour taste she remembered from kindergarten and a baked potato with chili.
Afterward, she followed a group past the homeless shelter, which was always full by one minute past five, when it opened for the night. They passed the old town depot, went through a park scarred with chain-link fences and heaps of dirt. They came out onto the bike path where she and her ex, once upon a time, had taken long, leisurely rides to see the alligators glistening on the banks of the sinkhole ponds. It was dark in the woods, thick with Spanish moss and vines that looked from the corners of her eyes like snakes. She felt a new upwelling in her, a sharp fear, and tried to swallow it. The people ahead of her disappeared off the bike path and into the trees.
She could smell it before she saw it: the tang of urine and shit and woodsmoke and spilled beer and something starchy boiling. She heard the voices and came out into a clearing. In the dark, tents hulked beyond where she could see them and there were fires here and there.
A man shouted, You looking for me, sweetheart? and there were laughs and she could see a dark shape detaching from the closest fire and gliding toward her.
From behind her, she heard a woman’s voice saying, warmly, There you are! and she felt herself being pushed past the man who approached, then past seven or eight campfires.
They stopped. Hang on, the woman said, and bent down and lit a lighter to some newspaper, then the newspaper to a bit of kindling. The fire revealed a heavy woman with a bready face and hair in a pink shade of red. I got the water, kids, she said. You can come out. There was the sound of a zipper and four little bodies crept from a tent. They were indistinguishable from one another at first, four skinny things with long blondish hair.
The woman looked up and said, Not smart, coming here alone.
I had nowhere to go, she said, and her voice sounded ugly in her ears.
No family? the woman said. Clean-looking girl like you?
No, she said.
Got food? the woman asked, and she nodded as she pulled from her pack the last of her supplies: a loaf of white bread, a jar of peanut butter, a pack of cheese, a few tins of sardines, three cheap dry packs of ramen.
Peanut butter! one of the kids said, snatching it up, and the woman smiled at her for the first time. Share your food, you can share our tent, she said.
Thank you, she said. When they sat to eat, one of the little girls crept close to her and put a hand on the sole of her foot. When she was little, she’d had the same hunger for touch. She could smell woodsmoke in the girl’s blond hair, something clovelike in her skin.
The big woman was named Jane, and they nursed cups of weak cocoa after the children went to sleep. Jane told her about the husband who had run off, the house she and the kids lost, the jobs she’d been fired from because of her temper. She sighed. Same old story, she said.
She could hear the campsite settling; could smell marijuana over the thick stink of the place; a man was shouting, then his voice suddenly cut off. The house was real nice, Jane said ruefully. Pool and all. My husband always said there’s no such thing as a [REDACTED] childhood without a pool. She snorted, and made a gesture toward the children. Now we’re camping.
How long have you been here? the girl asked. 
But this was the wrong thing to say, and Jane frowned at her and said, It’s temporary, and stood to clean her cup. We’ll get back to where we were.
Still, when she went to brush her teeth, she noticed Jane watching. Toothpaste, she said. Kids’ve been out for a while. You think tomorrow you can let us borrow some? And she said sure, and Jane smiled again, and by the time the two women went into the tent and curled on either side of the four sprawling children, they were friends again.
In the bright light of the morning, the campsite was steaming with fog: it looked almost innocuous, dreamy. She started up the fire and found the drinking water and began to boil oatmeal for the kids. They came out, one by one. The oldest couldn’t have been more than five, none of them school age. In other tents, other women’s voices rose, other children responded. A small boy ran over, said a shy Heyto Jane’s children, and fled back to his mother.
She understood now that this was the family part of the tent city, that the safety here was safety in numbers, of rules and unspoken militancy against the threat just feet beyond.
Jane poked her head out, smiled, and emerged in a fast-food uniform.
You watch the kids today? she said. The girl who usually watches them got housing a few days ago, and I better not drop them at the library again.
I can read, the oldest girl said. I can, too, the second-oldest said. Sort of, the first said, but kindly.
She looked at the children, a sinking in her stomach. Oh, she said.
Jane’s face was cold again. Listen, she said. Either I work or we never get out of here. Either they stay with you or I drop them off at the library and risk Social Services catching wind and lose them. We got no choice.
O.K., she said. Of course, I’ll watch them. And Jane said thanks, but looked at her sourly as she untangled the little girls’ hair with a wet comb.
Nights, Jane came back stinking of perspiration, with bags of burgers and fries that had got too old to sell. She soaked her feet in warm water, groaning, and, when the kids were asleep, talked bitterly of her boss. Stupid young lech, she said. Felt up her boobies in the supply room.
She nodded, listening, offering little. But Jane seemed to take solace in her quiet presence, treating her like a slow cousin, pitiful but useful.
The kids and she were coming out of the library one afternoon when they saw Jane across the street on a bench.
Uh-oh, the oldest girl said. The youngest buried her head in her brother’s back.
Stay here, she said, and sat the children on a wall in front of the library.
Fired, Jane said, without raising her head. I got a temper, I told you that.
It’s all right, she said, though the ground seemed to buckle under her feet. You’ll get another job.
Jane lifted her head and spat, No, it isn’t all right. It’s not all right. I put down all our money on a place the other day and was waiting for my pay on Friday to put down the rest. It’s so not fucking all right, she said. Go back to the tent, she said. I’ll be in when I’m in.
For supper, she and the kids had tomato soup and cheese sandwiches. She told the children stories filched from the Arabian Nights, and they fell asleep, waiting for their mother. She sat by the fire until she ran out of wood, and the bodies drifting by in the darkness grew menacing. Then she zipped herself inside the tent, warmed by the breath of the children.
In the morning, Jane’s side of the tent was still empty. She took the children to the graveyard halfway between the tent city and the town. It was their favorite place: calm, neat, and pretty, with great old oaks and rows of bright plastic flowers that they gathered in their arms and redistributed to the loneliest-looking stones.
At the end of the day, she brought the children to the police department, and gave them each a cup of oversweetened tea and a powdered doughnut that she found on a table in the waiting area.
When she asked about Jane, the policewoman barely looked up from her computer. She sucked her lip and typed in Jane’s name and said, Um-hum. Arrested yesterday at about seven. Prostitution.
No, the girl said. The children were out of earshot. She said, That can’t be right.
The policewoman flicked her eyes over her. She could see herself as she was to this woman—dirty, stringy, smelly, browned to leather, clearly homeless. The policewoman’s mouth settled into its wrinkles. Well, it is, she said, and went back to what she was doing.
The girl summoned the ghost of the professor she’d been and said, enunciating sharply, Officer, please listen to me. I need to have you contact Family Services. These are Jane’s children, and I find that I cannot, unfortunately, care for them at this time.
She sat with the children until a tired-looking woman in a black pants suit hurried in, stopping to talk with the officer at the desk. When the Family Services woman said a bright hello, the kids looked up from the magazine they had been studying and watched warily as the woman hoisted her trousers to crouch before them.
The girl stood, weak in the legs, and backed toward the door.
The day was too bright. Her head rang. She had eaten nothing since the morning. She went back to the tent and slept until dawn. Just before the tent city began to stir, she gathered her things and walked to town, leaving Jane’s tent still up, the children’s belongings tidied into piles and her own sleeping bag in the center in craven apology.
She thought of her mother, what it must be like for her to have a vanished daughter. The police must have found the abandoned station wagon months ago and traced it; someone must have called. Her mother would think of murder or abduction, would wonder what she had done to make her daughter so ungrateful. Maybe, she thought with a pulse of spite, fear had finally awakened her mother. Maybe she was scouring the state for her, even now. She slept for two days under her tarp in her former neighbor’s bamboo thicket. The nights were warmer in May, but she still shivered. Once, she woke to find the bright-green eyes of a cat staring at her, and called out her old pet’s name, but the animal ran off.
She walked all the way to the university, remembering it was graduation weekend, which meant that many of the students would be moving out. Perhaps she could get some food or another sleeping bag, she thought. In college, she had watched boys open a fifth-floor fraternity-house window and dump their perfectly good computers to the ground. She herself had emptied her mini-fridge of its still-fresh yogurts and apples and frozen pizzas and tossed them into the garbage.
She felt ratlike on campus, scuttling from shadow to shadow. If anyone she knew saw her, if anyone smelled her. There was a tent in one quad, and she could just perceive in the dawn that a buffet was being set up. She waited until the caterers went behind their van for a break, and swiftly filled up a plate with hot eggs and potatoes and sausage. She looked up to see one of the caterers staring at her, a crate of glasses in his hands. She smiled at him and he, grimly, waved her off.
Outside the senior dorms, she noticed a great metal truck beside a dumpster into which people were heaving mattresses, coffeemakers, chairs. She saw an office chair levitate above the lip of the dumpster, but the boy who was supposed to catch it had already seized a crate of electrical wires and turned away. The arms holding it began to shake. Without thinking, she stepped forward and grasped the chair above her head. The man who was passing it peeked out at her, smiling. He had black hair tied back in a ponytail and crows’ feet pressed into the skin beside his eyes. You helping?
She was surprised into saying, Sure.
He winked and passed over a rolled-up rug.
She carried boxes of books, a headboard, a coffee table. The truck suddenly started up and someone muttered, Come on. She ran as the others began to run and leaped with them into the truck. A security car pulled up just as the doors clanged shut and the truck moved off. It was dark, the engine roaring, so crowded she felt as if she were suffocating. But someone touched her arm, lightly traced it to her hand, and put something paper-covered into her palm. It was a candy bar.
At last, the truck stopped and the engine shut off. There was a clicking, and the doors opened to impossible brightness. They were at the edge of a long, rolling expanse of grass. She heaved her backpack down and jumped out onto the sandy ground.
A girl with a smudged face and long braid turned to her and said, It’s breakfast time.
She trailed the girl up the dirt drive to a sprawling ramshackle building. What is this? she said, and the girl laughed. It’s the Prairie House, she said. It’s a squat. Do you normally just follow people without knowing where you’re going?
Recently, yes, she said. The girl looked carefully at her, and said, Whoa. You don’t look so good, sweetie, and led her to a bed that she sank into, even though the sheets smelled strongly of someone else and she couldn’t find the energy to take off her boots.
She slept through the day, the night, the next day, and woke light-headed with hunger. She crept down to the kitchen, passing bodies sprawled on cots and mattresses. The refrigerator was nauseating, overstuffed and sending off a garlicky rotten odor, but she found a pot of stew that was still warm shoved in among wrinkled apples.
The moon had risen over the prairie and shot the hummocks with shadow. A small creature was moving at the edge of the lawn, and in the house she could hear the others sleeping, their small movements and breath. She was alert, as she hadn’t been in years. She turned on the light over the stove and looked at it in horror: it was caked with old meals, stinking of grease. She would begin now, she thought, and found a caustic cleaner under the sink, a mismatched pair of rubber gloves, some steel wool. She began inch by inch, and worked as quietly as she could. She avoided the windows, sensing that if she looked out she would see Euclid’s hungry spirits massing up from the prairie, the starved Crackers, the malarial conquistadores on their ponies. Or Jane’s children, their faces pressed to the glass.
By morning, the stove shone, the refrigerator was clean and the rotten food tossed, the dishes in the sink scoured and the sink again its natural stainless-steel color. She had reordered the cabinets, cleaning them of mouse droppings and dead cockroaches.
Her body felt vague with fatigue, but the clarity in her head remained. When she turned around, the man from the dumpster was sitting at the table, watching her. Wowzers, he said. Can’t remember the last time somebody made this kitchen so shiny.
I still have a lot to do, she said, and he said, Sit down a minute and talk.
He told her the rules: no fighting, no drugs, sleep wherever you find a place. People were in and out all the time and nobody knew everyone, so if she had any valuables she’d need to keep them close. I don’t, she said, and he said, All the better. Everyone should pull their weight, doing things either around the house or in the barn, where they had a business reselling discarded items on the Internet, which paid for the water and electric bills and some of the food they didn’t just salvage. They tried to live without money that way, and did pretty well.
He stopped and grinned at her.
That’s it? she said. Even in the tent city there had been more implicit rules.
Yup, he said. Heaven, isn’t it?
She thought about it for a while. Or hell, she said.
Maybe there’s no difference, he said as he poured her a coffee.
The party had grown organically, as things did at the Prairie House. Now there were skinny-dippers, splashes of surprising white in the dark water of the sinkhole, and a keg circled by strung-up Christmas lights on an oak tree. She turned from the bonfire where she was standing, the silhouettes of dancing bodies still in her eyes.
Beyond the party, the prairie unscrolled, calm and impassive, meeting the sky with an equal darkness. She found herself moving into it, each step a relief from the drunken voices, the flaming moths of paper spun from the fire, the sear of the flames. Past the first hummock of trees, the darkness took on a light of its own and she began to distinguish the texture of the ground. She moved calmly over the pits of sand, palmettos biting at her calves, strange sudden seeps of marsh. Small things rustled away from her footsteps, and she felt fondly toward them, for their smallness and their fear.
After ten minutes, human noise had scaled to nothing, and insect noise took on urgency. Her body was slick with sweat. When she stopped she felt the first itch. She kept herself still, and was so quiet for so long that the prairie began again its furtive movements. The world that, from the comfort of the fire, had seemed a cool wiped slate was unexpectedly teeming.
She could smell the rot of a drainage ditch some well-meaning fools had dug through the prairie during the Depression. The land had taken the imprint of their hands and made it its own. She thought of the snakes sleeping coiled in their burrows and the alligators surfacing to scent her in the darkness, their shimmy onto the land, their stealthy bellying; how she was only one lost living thing among so many others, not special for being human. Something crawled across her throat.
She was frozen. The sweat cooled on her body and made her shiver. There was no relief in the sky vaguely filmed with stars, a web vaster than she could imagine. There was nobody who could save her, nobody who could deliver her gently back to the solace of people.
The night on the prairie returned to her during the long and difficult birth of her daughter, years later, after her mother’s funeral on a hill gone white with sleet. A shot in the spine took her pain away, and she was content, floating above herself, safe within the gentle beeping of the machines. Then something went wrong very suddenly, and the nurses’ faces pressed in and the world outside her shifted into frenzy. She was wheeled down the hall to a cold room. It was almost Christmas and a poinsettia hunched in the corner of the room, making her think about the black dirt in the pot, what was in the dirt. Her body shook so hard it rattled the aluminum slab she was laid upon, and there was an unbearable pressure inside her as the surgeon pushed the knife in. Then the panic came back, the darkness, the sense of being lost, the fangs she’d imagined on her ankles, which were only palmetto cuts, the breath of some bad spirit hot on the back of her neck, before she had seen a glow in the darkness and stumbled back to the light of the bonfire.
She was peeled open to her pulp, but she was glad of her daughter’s immanent newness, the perfect possibility of her. A fresh start: a form of lightness. One of the nurses wore a silver bell around her neck that chimed softly, and she listened to it, knowing that this small sound would be the first her daughter would hear of the world. How delicate the things that tie us to one another. The hands in her flesh, her own crossed on her chest, her daughter’s tiny fists drawn up into the air. 

