
Matinée
By Robert Coover
Weary of the tedium of her days, her lonely life going nowhere, she skips work and steps inside a half-empty old movie house showing a scratched and grainy romantic film from her youth; she takes her favorite seat in the middle of the seventh row, hoping to experience once again the consoling power of sudden uncomplicated love, even if not one’s own, love that has no trajectory attached to it but is a pure and immediate enrichment of the soul and delight of the body. In the film, two strangers separately board a train back in a time when trains had compartments with sliding doors and windows that could be pulled down for lingering, handkerchief-waving farewells. The woman waves goodbye to her husband, if that’s who he is, the man to a woman who may be his fiancée, or perhaps his sister. There are shouts from the stationmaster, whistles, the slamming of heavy doors, slow wheezy movement, wisps of steam curling past as though to erase one reality in anticipation of another. He raises the window, then they turn and nod politely to each other, settling in for the journey. “Going far?” he asks. She looks up with a smile. The smile fades. Something seems to happen between them. The train is chugging along just as trains used to do, and for a magical moment they seem to be all alone, rocking through space, their hearts beating to the rhythm of the train, though in fact the compartment is full and they are being closely watched over newspapers and knitting. They lean toward each other to speak earnestly about the weather and the vexations of travel, their hearts visibly melting, and receive from a severe old lady sitting near the compartment door a particularly withering glance, but there is a telltale tear in her eye, as if she might once long ago have been similarly struck—just as there is a tear in her own eye, as she sits there in the musty old movie house. All of these people in the film are, of course, dead, which reminds her, as if she needed reminding, of the irreversible passing of time, adding therewith to her sadness, for, sooner or later, she, like they, will also be dead, but without ever having had a man gaze into her eyes that way, a moment so human, so iconic, so unspeakably beautiful—essential, really, to a well-lived life—but one never granted her or to be granted. As the dead actor and the dead actress fall into an immortal clinch, the film breaks and rattles in the projector and the lights come up while repairs are made. She knows how it all turns out, and knows that it will only deepen her melancholy, so she rises to leave, pulling her coat on, just as a man four rows in front of her rises and gathers up his own coat and hat, glancing at her fleetingly. As she steps out into the aisle and he steps out into the aisle, they will accidentally bump into each other, or maybe it won’t be an accident but something, well, something ordained.
Alone at home, he watches this old film, imagining that it is he who rises from the third row as the movie-house lights come up and, as he lifts his hat and coat from the adjoining seat, catches a glimpse of the sorrowful woman four rows back, who seems to be tearfully staring at him. A sourceless music rises, throbbing, as though from out of their shared gaze. As the man in the film pulls his coat on and starts up the aisle toward where he and the woman will jostle each other, intentionally or accidentally or as if both compelled to so collide, it’s purposefully ambiguous, he also dons his coat—he knows how the movie turns out—and heads off for a drink at the neighborhood bar, called there by what he feels to be his vocation to rescue sad maidens. Of whom, no shortage, he has only to choose or wait to be chosen. Meanwhile, drink in hand, he watches the old movie that is playing silently on the TV above the bar, one he remembers well. It once had the power to excite him inordinately, and it excites him now: A man, out hiking, meets a young woman on the trail. She looks up, pauses, her smile fading, holds his gaze for a timeless moment, and then, as if deflected by the stunning power of it, veers off the trail and into the wilderness. The man continues on his path, but he, too, is somewhat stunned, and after a few steps he changes his mind and leaves the trail to follow her. The wilderness is thick, confusing, no sign of her, easy to get lost, he decides to go no farther—but then he sees her, standing knee-deep, nude, her back to him, in a softly lit pond. Film nudity was rare in those days, never more than a teasing glimpse, but in this restored version using recovered footage the camera remains fixed on the woman, approaching her from behind as the hero of the movie, spellbound (as he, too, perched at the bar, is spellbound, before an ancient mystery being spectacularly revealed), approaches her. After pausing to gaze tenderly a moment upon this vision (she knows he is watching her, he knows she knows), theman strips down and steps out in front of the camera and into the pond, their paired bodies bathed in a strange unearthly light. “Their backsides are beautiful,” a woman sitting on the next barstool says. Absorbed in the film, he hadn’t noticed her climb up beside him, and he’s not sure he’s pleased by the interruption. This is the best part. “But what always gets me,” she says, “is that first moment when they look into each other’s eyes.” He nods in agreement, unable to take his own eyes off the film until both actors have entered the water up to their shoulders and turned toward each other. “That’s when it all happens,” he says, turning at last, as the actors have turned, to gaze deeply into her gazing eyes. “The rest is just mechanics.” “Like a spark to fire,” she replies throatily. “Which, sadly, always goes out,” he adds with a wistful smile. “But before it does . . .”
She doesn’t object to leaving the bar; she went there hoping for something like this, this spark-to-fire lady. Nor does she regret missing the rest of the movie—she knows how it turns out: the two strangers will make love in the water, but will never see each other again, she walking away into the wilderness, he, momentarily sated, smiling as he watches her go, but later overtaken by a terrible longing that sends him all over the world in a futile search for her. A fairy tale of sorts. Not so the present encounter. They have somehow got to the sadness of such affairs without experiencing the ecstasy that is supposed to come first. To break the awkward silence that has fallen, they pull their underwear back on and turn on the TV to see what movies are showing. “Ah, I like this one,” he says. She knows it. It’s about a blind flower girl from whom, every afternoon at the same hour, a gentleman buys a fresh bouquet. For his fiancée or his wife, the flower girl assumes, and she always wishes the recipient well, though it is clear that she is falling helplessly in love with the man’s kind, mellifluous voice, and she waits every day, listening for him with transparent longing. It reminds her, curled up there on the sofa in her underpants, her shirt draped over her shoulders, of another film she likes much more, also ultimately about a blind person, in which a winsome governess falls in love with the master of the house and he, after only a moment’s hesitation (either it happens like that or it doesn’t), with her. The mistress of the house, his wife, is a cruel, vindictive woman, and the movie takes a tragic turn—it’s the master who ends up blind—but before that there are about ten magical minutes as beautiful as anything in the history of the movies. Now, on the TV, the soothing voice is saying in a soft whisper perhaps not meant to be overheard that the flower girl is very beautiful, and she turns her face toward the whisper with abject adoration burning in her blind eyes. We see him now. He is a hideously disfigured war veteran, but the flower girl, of course, doesn’t see this—she sees only the noble soul within, as a disembodied voice seems to say. In the other movie, the one she prefers, the master is not yet blind when his wife coldly dismisses the governess, mainly because of the ten good minutes that have gone before, and at the door, before the poor governess steps out and disappears into a winter storm, there is a final shared glance between her and the master that tears at the heart. The expressions on their faces, as best she remembers them, are much like those of the scarred veteran and the flower girl now, the old soldier stunned by the worshipful way the girl looks at him, even if unseeing—he could not have believed that something like this would ever happen to him again. Unfortunately, he is also guiltily aware that he has been misleading the poor child, for the flowers he buys are indeed for his wife, who is lying in the hospital in a coma brought on by the shock of his return, a coma from which she is not expected to emerge. Consequently, though it wrenches his heart, he forgoes any further contact with the flower girl, who waits and waits in gathering dismay, listening in vain for that voice she loves. In the other movie, the one she remembers, the master suffers a similar agony. His sight gone, his wife institutionalized, he spends his fortune sending emissaries around the world in search of the governess. Most of these emissaries are merely taking advantage of his anguish, accepting his money without even trying to find her. One invents a rumor that she is dead or dying, others that she is believed to have married a desert sheikh or entered a nunnery under an assumed name. In utter despair, his fortune exhausted, his false friends departed, the master leaves his house and, following the sound of the breaking waves, feels his way with his white cane to the edge of the cliff. He is about to take his final fatal step when he hears a beloved voice calling his name. He turns, staggers backward toward the edge, dropping his cane, but the governess rushes forward and pulls him to safety and they fall into a tearfully ecstatic embrace. Not so lucky the flower girl. The disfigured veteran waits until the first anniversary of his wife’s burial before returning to the flower stall, only to see the blind girl, having abandoned all hope, step out, unseeing eyes to the heavens, into the onrushing traffic. Brakes squeal, people scream, there is the sound of crunching metal. He rushes to her side. She lies crushed on the pavement, a confusion of wrecked vehicles all around her, blood leaking from her lips. “My love!” he gasps. Her eyes flutter open and seem to see him and, with a faint ethereal smile, she dies. The rescuer of sad maidens and the spark-to-fire lady are both weeping. They take their underwear off again.
If only the wife had died sooner, there could have been a happy ending. That’s what a young woman in a love hotel room rented by the hour believes—“She just ruined the story hanging on like that!”—and the fellow she’s with laughs and says, “There are no happy endings, kid. Just these moments.” “But she never really had her moment.” “Sure she did. Right there in the street.” “But all that blood! It was coming out her ears!” “Yeah. Glorious.” This is her first time in such a place. When she understood what it was, she was too shy to say no. She’s so susceptible to that little flutter of the heart—one long, deep kiss will carry her right away—and he seemed like such a nice boy. If he’s really a boy. He looks older now, with his clothes off. As soon as they got to the room, he turned on an adult channel and insisted that they had to do everything that happened on the screen, no matter how gross. “Here are your real brief encounters,” he said with a crooked grin, making fun of her romantic ways. Encounters, yes, though more like collisions, really, and certainly brief, but without the maddening joy, the dissolving of the self into something more than the self, the anguished longing afterward. He doesn’t understand a thing. So when he’d finally exhausted himself she switched to the nostalgia channel, where the end of the blind-flower-girl film was playing. Now, after the credits and ads (hawking the very lubricant the hotel provides), a new film starts up called “Matinée.” She remembers walking out of this one years ago, because she didn’t really understand it. It’s not exactly a romantic film, but it’s also not exactly not one. It’s about a bored suburban housewife who, on an afternoon shopping trip into the city, steps into a run-down old cinema to lose herself in the more adventurous lives of others. The film being shown there is about a young woman on a holiday in an exotic foreign city, who meets a handsome, pipe-smoking gentleman on a sightseeing riverboat and embarks on a sudden but ill-fated romance with him. The film fills the housewife with such longing that when the man sitting beside her in the darkened movie house takes her hand to lead her away to a nearby hotel she just can’t seem to resist. (“There we go, kid!” the guy she’s with says, laughing and giving her a slap on the bum as she leans forward on her hands and knees to turn up the volume.) Or maybe this is why the housewife in the film went to that old cinema in the first place, though she’d never done anything like that before. When the man gives her some money, she accepts it without saying anything, and this becomes the pattern of her afternoons, sneaking away from her domestic family life to pick up men in the old movie house—she sees the beginnings of lots of matinées—and otherwise carrying on exactly as before. Sometimes she uses the money the men give her to buy toys for her children or something nice for her husband; other times she just forgets about it. The movie also has another story line, about an unmarried lady of the streets, a sort of brief-encounters careerist, who dreams of becoming a happy suburban housewife. When her clients ask her questions about herself, she starts to invent such a life and, like a wish coming true, that life begins to happen, unless it’s just her imagination. These are completely separate stories, about completely different people, but the confusing thing is that the same actress plays both parts, and eventually everything gets mixed up, their lives weaving in and out of each other, until neither the housewife nor the prostitute knows for sure who she is or where she is. To make it even more complicated, the client for the housewife and/or prostitute is always the same person, though she never recognizes him, while the husband and the children are different people every time they’re seen, and neither the housewife nor the prostitute seems surprised by this. Both of them appear ready to fix breakfast for anybody and to put any child to bed at night. She’d like to ask the guy she’s with what he thinks is going on, but the brute, his fingers like talons on her thighs, has jerked her back to sit on his face, so he’s not even watching.
But it is confusing. She’s a working girl, she doesn’t go to the movies, no time for that—she does her marketing on the street and provides her services in a room she rents—and yet here she is in an old movie house, watching a romantic musical about a happy suburban family, and some guy takes her hand and she thinks, I’ve never done this before! Or she is working the streets when a man stops his car and picks her up and he turns out to be her husband. The kids in the car give her a hug and call her Mommy. She reaches into her bag to see if she has any candy for them, but all she finds are lubricants and condoms. Her husband winks. Or, in her sad little rented room, she gets herself tricked out for the evening in a tight miniskirt, black net stockings, and stilettos, and opens the door to step out onto the street: it’s morning and she’s at home. “What are you dressed up like that for, dear?” her husband asks, looking up from the television, pipe in hand. Though she doesn’t recognize him, the family photos on the walls and on tabletops suggest that they’ve been married for decades. “I—I’m going shopping,” she says, which is not really an explanation. “I have to go in to the office later,” he says with a loving smile. “I’ll pick you up outside the department store at five.” So on this day, which already seems like several, she skips the matinée (not her sort of movie anyway, a serial-killer thing called “The Love Hotel Murders”) and waits for him outside the store at five. He pulls up, she gets in the car, and he takes her to a convenience hotel, so he’s probably not her husband. She arrives home late from this encounter (he wanted to do everything), worried about the children (she has children!), and finds a man who must be her long-suffering husband preparing breakfast for them. “Why are you carrying all that money?” he asks. Indeed, she is clutching a fistful of it. “It’s for you,” she says in her bewilderment, dropping it on the table, and she goes to her room to look at herself in the mirror. She knows she should recognize the person she sees there, but the best she can say is that she’s vaguely familiar, like someone she has passed on the street or in a grocery-store aisle. 
Or like that man on the department-store escalator today. She had picked up a new ruffled blouse and a silk kerchief and was taking the escalator up a floor to look for a winter scarf for her husband. A man taking the escalator down to street level was wearing a very handsome one and she wondered, as he passed, if it would suit her husband. But then their eyes met and both she and he turned in stunned amazement to watch the other descend/ascend, though she found herself wondering, even as her love-struck heart beat wildly, if perhaps he was her husband. She took the down escalator in the hope of seeing him again, but he had vanished. Perhaps he had taken the up escalator, looking for her. Perhaps he never was: what can the lonely heart not imagine? The intensity of her emotions frightened her. To calm herself, she decided to go to a matinée showing of a grainy old movie about two people on a busy train platform who say goodbye to the people they love—his wife, her fiancé—then turn and, as the platform empties out, see each other standing there by the tracks under the high domed roof in the dissipating steam, sad and alone. They introduce themselves and, to console each other, they go off to have tea together in a cozy little hotel nearby, end up in bed, and, while sharing a cigarette (this is an old movie, they don’t show the part in between), talk about the strangeness of the moment. Though they have discovered a sudden undying love for each other, they have not told each other their names, nor will they. “Sometimes I feel like my whole life is just a movie I’m in,” she says, somewhat tearfully, “and I don’t even have the best part.” “Or two movies,” he says, “or more. All happening”—“I adore you,” she whispers, kissing his speaking lips—“at the same time, like some kind of montage.” “Yes, fraught moments like these are like that,” she replies in her deepening melancholy, “but”—“I feel like I’ve always loved you,” he murmurs, nibbling her earlobe—“it’s an illusion. Real life is more like a train that never stops to let you off. The days come and go, you get older, and then you die.” “But sometimes something happens. You bump into somebody in the aisle while leaving a movie and your life changes.” “Or it doesn’t. If you’re married, you have to choose. Are you married to that woman on the train you were waving goodbye to?” “Yes. That’s how we met—leaving the cinema. It was a sad movie about a despairing blind man who was standing at the edge of a cliff when the woman he loved turned up and cried out his name, and he was so startled that he dropped his cane and staggered backward off the cliff. There was a smile on his face, though, from hearing the voice of his beloved, and he reached out his arms toward her as he fell, so you might say he died happy. Not that it’s easy, of course, to be happy when falling off a cliff.” “No.” “We were both bawling and we fell into a hug right there in the aisle, though we didn’t even know each other, and we left the movie house and got married.” “Are you sorry? That you got married, I mean?” “No, it’s all right. I miss the freedom I had before, but I don’t miss the anxiety or the loneliness. I’m more comfortable when I can, as you might say, move with the plot.” “I know that’s the right thing to say,” she says, beginning to weep, “but it means you’re uncomfortable now and it makes me feel evil and unwanted.” He is also weeping. “What can I say?” he says. “It’s all so very sad.” They are making love again. It’s even better than before. Both are wondering if they can bear to part.
They can and do, though it wrenches their hearts. Years later, in the city, he is having lunch in a popular restaurant, his wife having joined him before her usual afternoon shopping trip, when he spies a woman sitting at a table by the window with a man in a business suit, and he wonders if it is the same woman he met on that steamy train platform so long ago. He remembers suddenly and vividly the room they shared in the little hotel, the yellow flowered wallpaper, the pink bedspread and matching curtains, the chipped amber ashtray sitting on a white crocheted doily stained at one edge with tea or coffee. Why does he recall all this? If asked, he could barely describe his bedroom at home. At the time, he felt as if he’d been in that room forever and would be there for all time (there was no such thing as time), but then it all vanished in an instant as he stepped out the door, only to return now like a haunting. His wife rises to get on with her shopping, or perhaps to take in a movie matinée, as is her wont of late; she leans over and kisses his forehead in farewell just as the man at the other table rises and, fedora in hand, leans over to peck the woman’s cheek, leaving them both alone at their tables, staring across the room at each other. She stands, holding his gaze, crosses the room, takes the chair vacated by his wife. “Didn’t we meet many years ago?” she asks breathily, as though in awe of the moment. “Yes, on a train platform.” “No, on a sightseeing boat in a large city.” He doesn’t remember this, but seeing her sitting there before him in the soft restaurant light, so familiar, so beautiful, he wonders if perhaps he is mistaken. He glances at her blouse, seeing in his mind still the stained doily and the chipped ashtray, things also now in doubt. “You had a mustache then and smoked a pipe.” He desires this to be true, so in a sense it is true. He strokes his upper lip thoughtfully and gazes, spellbound, into her adoring gaze. “You were wearing a white dress with puff sleeves and a red silk kerchief,” he says softly. “Was I?” They are leaning, somewhat desperately, toward each other. A kiss is imminent, yet impossible. “What will we do?” “I don’t know,” she says. “I am lost.” “Maybe we could go to a movie? Down the street they’re showing ‘The Rescuer of Sad Maidens.’ Have you seen it?” “Is that the one that takes place aboard a doomed cruise ship?” “No, it’s a stories-within-stories kind of thing.” “I don’t think I’d like it. I’m more straightforward than that.” “Well, all right. A hotel room, then?”
She has been sitting in the old half-empty cinema with tears in her eyes, watching this poignant movie about the reunited lovers and thinking about life, how sad it is, when the man sitting next to her puts his hand over hers. When he leads her out (the movie is not over, but she knows what happens next), she somehow cannot resist, though he is not her husband. He takes her to a room in a small hotel. She seems to recognize it, though she has never been there, nor indeed has she ever done anything like this before. The windows, under the slanting ceiling, look out on rooftops and chimney pots. Next to one of the windows a porcelain washbasin sits on a table draped with a faded yellow cloth, a used bar of brown soap in a tin dish and a pitcher of water beside it. She knows without looking that there is a frayed green towel on the chrome bar screwed into the side of the table, a white one on the floor to stand on, and a blue drinking glass beside the basin, catching the late-afternoon light. She has never been here, so how does she know all this? Perhaps she has seen too many movies. The priest’s barren cell in that film she saw recently about the passionate but impossible romance between a priest and a nun, for example, had slanted ceilings and a washstand with a towel bar and a basin that looked much like this one, though everything was white. Earlier, in the garden, in the soft light of a tree’s shade, the priest and the nun, utterly love-struck, had drawn together, gazing deeply into each other’s eyes—much like the two married people in the restaurant in the movie she was just watching—then had parted in anguish, suffering the shame of their iniquitous desire. Alone afterward, in the cell with the washstand, the priest—though you couldn’t actually see this—was committing the sin of onanism when the nun reappeared before him in all her resplendent earthly beauty, dressed only in her wimple, with a golden crucifix dangling from a chain between her exquisite breasts. Was she real or only his crazed and hapless fantasy? It was unclear, but she was played by a living actress—living then, anyway—and so she seemed real, and what happened between them also seemed real. Did they use the washbasin afterward? Maybe they did, since she remembers it so vividly. Meanwhile, the man she is with now, while removing his tie, is telling her a strange story about his obsession with a woodland nymph, whom he met briefly one afternoon while out hiking and for whom, whether she actually exists or not, he has been ceaselessly searching ever since. “I thought for a moment you might be she,” he says sorrowfully, as she kicks off her pumps and peels down her stockings. “How do you know that I’m not?” “Because I cannot forget her, though I often wish that I could. I see her features even when I look at myself in the mirror.” He unbuttons his shirt, setting the cufflinks thoughtfully beside the blue glass. “It took me forever to find my way back to the trail, and you could say I’ve not found it yet.” He lowers his pants. “You are chasing phantoms,” she says, lifting her dress over her head. “Though the past may once have existed, it does not now exist. Something has taken its place.” She feels certain that she has said this before. Or heard it said. She wants to explain what the something is, but it’s too late—even as she steps out of her underwear the film is breaking and rattling in the projector. 

