GOO BOOK
By Keith Ridgway
It was fucking hot.
He could feel something on his thigh, a bruise. It felt like a bruise, sweet and small, and he poked it with his finger a couple of times. He didn’t know how he’d got that. He rolled it around his body like a taste.
Sometimes he found cuts where he thought he was only bruised.
Car fumes grimed his skin. He moved through the arches with his shirt hanging from his back pocket and a pair of stall sunglasses biting his nose, the pads missing. He weaved around the pillars and the statues and he stopped by the drinking fountain and watched for a while, but there were only schoolkids and builders and one or two guys like him. Tourists never drank from the drinking fountain.
He had left her by the canal, dozing on the grass in the shade with his tobacco and his weed and his lighter and his keys and his wallet, and she was probably snoring now, dreaming. Or she was being robbed, raped, murdered, bullied, torn apart, and if the canal had a tide she would drown, just for him, just because of him, because he had thought of it, and then he would have that instead of her.
You can love someone too much.
He scratched his armpit and poked the bruise and tried to stop thinking about her.
By the gallery doors there was a group of old Japanese or Chinese or something tourists, and they all had bags hanging off their shoulders. He slapped himself on the face a couple of times and worked up the bright smile, and put on his shirt and patted down his hair, and he slid through them like Jesus through children, smiling at them and saying ciao ciao, and they smiled back at him, and one or two clutched their cameras and laughed, and he lowered his arms and paused at the entrance and they forgot about him and he came out the other side with a box purse and what his fingers had thought was a wallet but turned out to be a notebook. Not very fucking good then.
He stopped around the corner where the cameras didn’t reach and he looked at the notebook. It was full of writing in different-colored inks. Pages covered in strange script. There was a photograph of a small girl, taken in the black-and-white past. Shit. He went back to the corner and picked out a shy-looking schoolboy and gave him the notebook and told him to give it to one of the Japanese outside the gallery, and to do it immediately and to do it right or he’d fucking kill him, and he gave him a couple of quid. Then he took off his shirt again, counted the cash from the purse and pocketed it, and threw the purse in a bin, and the sunglasses as well.
She was sitting up, dazed, staring at the water. He kissed her and stroked her back, but she was too hot and she shrugged him off. She picked up her things and they walked toward the road, and he hailed a taxi and they went home and she got in the shower and he gave her a few minutes, then he climbed in beside her and they stood together in the cool water and they held each other skin to skin, and he was the happiest he had ever been, again, and he had no worries, none, and he worried about that.
He stole from tourists. Everyone steals from tourists. He stole honest. He put his hand in their pockets. And he had arrangements with the night managers at a couple of hotels. Maybe twice a week he’d get a call. Sometimes he worked as a driver for a man called Mishazzo, but that was irregular. Mishazzo was a gentleman. He was small and thin like a teen-ager, so he always wore a beard and an expensive suit, and sometimes he carried an umbrella when there was no sign of rain, and he sat quietly in the back with his legs crossed, smoking or reading the paper or talking on the phone. There were other men who worked for Mishazzo. There was Price. Some younger ones. They would pile into the car without Mishazzo and direct him somewhere and then they would pile out and be gone for a while and sometimes he heard shouting.
He didn’t like violence.
She was younger than him. They had friends; that was how they’d met. Her brother used to go out with his friend Derek’s sister, when they were kids. They all went to the same two pubs and the same shitty club in Waltham Cross. Noisy friends, and their voices in the middle of all that, and their voices went quiet when they met. And their friends knew quicker than they did. Her mother said it was a bad crowd, but it wasn’t.
She hated her name. He hated his name.
Price was a professional.
—I am a professional. You hear me? You need to be a professional, too. You hear me? You need to show up shaved and showered and wearing a shirt. No fucking trainers. You will never show up after you’ve been drinking or smoking or taking whatever the fuck it is you take. Never. If I call you and need you, and you’ve been drinking, you fucking tell me. I’ve had a couple of glasses of wine, Mr. Price. I’ve just smoked a fat spliff, Mr. Price. I’m out of my fucking mind on meth, Mr. Price. The inconvenience this will cause me is as nothing to the fucking mess I will make of you if you ever turn up anything less than stone-cold fucking sober. You hear me? Pro-fucking-fessional.
He nodded, smiling.
—You are, needless to say, completely fucking deaf, blind, mute. You are a stone. You are stupid. You understand nothing. You remember nothing. You drive the fucking car. And that is all you fucking do. You hear me?
—Yes sir.
His father had put him in touch with Price. He didn’t know the story. His father knew a lot of people. His father came and went. His father thought he was soft. He didn’t trust his father.
They couldn’t talk. They were not good talkers, either of them. And once, long ago now, she had bought a notebook for a course. It lay empty and forgotten on the kitchen table until one afternoon, when she had gone out to the shops and he was worried that she would be killed by a bus or by lightning, he opened the notebook and he wrote lines about how he loved her, the way he loved her, about his fucking heart and crap like that, about his body brim full and his scrambled head. All that. She came back from the shops. He left the notebook where it was, and he didn’t mention it. And it wasn’t until about a week later that he noticed it again, and he flicked it open, and he saw his lines followed by lines from her. She’d written words that she had never said. He sat down. He read them over and over for a long time. Then he wrote a paragraph for her to find.
This went on for ages before either of them said anything about it. But he thought that maybe they touched each other differently. It was like the book freed stuff up, allowed it to happen, that the tenderness was covered, they had it covered, they had all the love and kindness and gentleness covered, and the sex became something else.
He had never seen anyone die. He’d never seen a body.
Sometimes when it was just Price and some of the others they would get back in the car and laugh and shout and punch the back of his seat.
—Did you see his fucking face?
—Thought you were going to have his fucking arm off!
—I swear I’ve broken a fucking finger!
He thought that this was probably for his benefit. That they’d done nothing other than have a chat or maybe shout at someone a bit.
He drove Mishazzo to a meeting in a suburb where he had never been before, to an industrial estate that seemed abandoned, but only temporarily, as if it was the weekend, even though it was a Tuesday. He sat in the car, waiting. He read a newspaper. Then there was a shot—a sound like a shot—and he looked around, but he couldn’t see anybody, and he wasn’t sure if it had been a shot at all. What does a shot sound like? He saw Mishazzo in the rearview mirror and he started the engine, and he saw Mishazzo hurry, and he frowned at the frown on Mishazzo’s face, and as he drove off he waited for something to be said, but nothing was said. It was only when they were some distance away that Mishazzo spoke.
—Slow down.
Hours, sometimes. He sat in the car outside somewhere or other. Warehouses, electrical shops, pubs now and then. A lot of the time he had to wait around the corner, on a side street, his eyes peeled for wardens. Sometimes he just had to drive around in a circle, waiting for Mishazzo to emerge. Furniture shops, little lawyers’ offices, cafés, a house in East Ham. A mini-cab place in Walthamstow. He would smoke with the windows open. He’d get out and lean against the door. He wasn’t allowed to go anywhere. He sent texts. He started keeping an empty plastic bottle under the driver’s seat. He thought of things to write in the book, and he would try to remember them until he got home. It was like trying to hold water in his hands, and sometimes he made it back and sometimes he didn’t. He decided that whenever he forgot something it wasn’t a loss but a correction.
He went dipping less and drove more. The money was better. Price generally told him a couple of days in advance when he’d be needed. He could calculate. He liked to have Saturdays free so that he could do the matches and the tube crowds, and that was O.K., because Mishazzo took weekends off most of the time. The money was good. He bought her stupid little presents until she told him to stop, Jesus.
When he was naked she would look at all of him, and move him around to see what would happen, and she would keep him still and tether him. She got some straps from somewhere. Then he bought ropes, and collars. They sometimes had to stop, a little spooked, sweating and laughing suddenly, something breaking the spell. She was better at ropes. She said it was because she wasn’t as self-conscious about the whole thing, that he had a sort of leftover embarrassment. And because he was used to trying to touch people so that they didn’t notice. He had to practice, she said, and he’d get better.
Mishazzo asked him questions.
—Do you gossip?
—No, sir. I don’t gossip.
—Why not?
—I don’t know.
—You don’t know why you don’t gossip?
—Not really.
—Are you not interested in people?
—Not really.
—What are you interested in?
—Myself, he said.
He could see Mishazzo nodding in the rearview mirror, and that was the end of the conversation.
He thought about how myself really meant him and her together. He could say myself and mean another person as well. It didn’t feel like he was leaving anything out.
They kept the book in a drawer in the kitchen. They never looked at it together. It came out of the drawer only when one of them was alone in the flat. He was afraid someone would find it. Once he moved it when her mother was coming over.
—Where the fuck is it?
—What?
—You know.
She looked at him like he was the stupidest fucking idiot she had ever seen.
—It’s not in the drawer, she said.
Slow, sharp, so that he’d understand.
He smiled at her.
—It’s not fucking funny. Where is it?
—It’s on top of the kitchen cupboard.
She couldn’t reach. She was clambering up on top of a chair when he went to get it down for her.
—Don’t do that again.
—O.K.
It was fucking hot.
He was mingling with a match crowd—burly men with burly wallets, hip pockets, drink taken, everyone happy and hugging. Replica shirts, T-shirts, no shirts. Home wins were the best. If they lost they were surly—mean-eyed and watchful. He picked out a potbellied man who was keeping a close eye on his two boys, guiding them, pointing things out, steering them away from the drunks and the shirtless thickets. One of the boys kept clutching his father’s belt for a tow. He maneuvered to the boy’s side, coming toward them out of a raucous knot of beery singing, and bumped against him gently, laughing, getting the timing just about right, and veered behind his mark, whose attention was down at the bumped boy reaching for the reassuring belt. It was all good.
He stuck the wallet down his jeans and moved toward the footpath.
They took him from both sides, quietly, two great grips on his arms, whispering his name and that they wanted a word, no trouble now or it’d be the van. Don’t let’s make a scene, son. Or it’d be Sunday night in a cell, and the magistrate first thing Monday morning. How did they know his name? He sucked in his stomach, hoping the wallet would fall into his crotch where they might not search him, or if he was lucky all the way down his leg and out onto the ground. But it stuck on his bollocks, and as they opened the car door one of them held out his hand for it. They weren’t uniforms.
—What?
—The wallet.
—The what?
—Don’t be a stupid fucking cunt.
They were the worst kind of police. Suits. Relaxed. Blank-faced, youngish, stone-eared. They looked like estate agents. He fished the wallet out of his jeans. They pushed him onto the back seat. One sat beside him, the other sat in the front and turned around.
It was Mishazzo they wanted. He felt stupid for not even suspecting it until they said it. He felt stupid but he kept his face still. They wanted a relationship. A friendly chat every now and again.
—I know what you’re thinking. For dipping a wallet? Well, there’s the hotels. There’s the routine you have down in Angel and the one you have in that boutique place in Shoreditch. We have you on camera for both of those, some nice DNA in the last room you did, with the dead-drunk guy sleeping through the whole thing.
The policeman laughed like he’d seen it.
—We have you as far back as April in Shoreditch. Nice targets. Clever stuff. I like it. Dodgy types, but wobbly. Little out of their depth. They get a couple of girls in, they snort some coke, they’re not quite sure if they’ve been robbed sometimes. And they never want to report it even if they are. But we still have you on at least three in Angel and five in Shoreditch.
The one in the front seat was doing all the talking. His glasses reflected bits of the car. Every now and then he pushed them back up his nose. The other one sat next to him saying nothing, looking at him, at the side of his face.
—I know what you’re thinking. You’re thinking you’ll go see nice Mr. Mishazzo and tell him all about it. I can tell you what he’ll say. He’ll tell you to take your chance in court with whatever we have and he’ll see to it that you don’t get too badly fucked up inside, and when you get out you go see him and he’ll find something for you to do. And that’s you married to Mishazzo for the rest of your life. And you proposed.
He looked at the other one. His face was crooked. He looked the younger of the two, maybe. He smiled as well. It was all very civilized.
—Or, said this one, his crooked face falling straight when he talked. You could take my phone number. You could go back home and have a nice relaxed Sunday night and enjoy the rest of your week, and you could keep on doing the driving, and whatever else comes up, for Mr. Mishazzo. And let us know. Nothing dramatic. Just where you take him, who he meets, what he says on the phone, that kind of thing. We’re not asking you to do anything. Just listen. And be your own man. Able to walk away from him and from us anytime you like. Safe. You stop the hotels. But apart from that . . . nothing. You just have a couple of new friends.
They let him think about it. They never mentioned her once.
He went home and cooked for her, and she sang bits of things at him and laughed at her own voice. They lay together in front of the television for a while, and then she wanted him to tie her up, to practice his knots, to fuck her, come on her, fuck her again.
Mishazzo said to him:
—When you turn to the right you have a tendency to cut the corner. To slice it. Ever so slightly. When you turn left it’s not a problem. You are leaning to the right. Do you have a limp?
—No.
—You’re right-handed?
—Yes.
—Your legs are the same length?
—Yes.
—And your arms?
—Yes, I think so.
—You get your eyes tested?
—My eyes are fine.
—One isn’t weaker than the other?
—No. My eyesight is . . . you know. Twenty-twenty.
Mishazzo looked around the back seat.
—Do you dress to the right?
He laughed.
—I think it goes down the left side, actually. You know. If anywhere.
In the mirror Mishazzo nodded.
—Well, that explains it then.
She worked a couple of days a week in a café in Stoke Newington. Serving, and some cooking, too. Frying eggs and bacon, making sandwiches. She didn’t like it when he came in. But he came in anyway, sometimes, when he was nearby.
—Let’s go on a holiday, he said.
—Where?
—Anywhere.
She thought about it.
—537061696e, she said.
—You’ve been to 537061696e.
—I liked it.
—You don’t want to go somewhere new?
She wrapped an arm around his hip.
—I didn’t see everything they have there.
—We could go to [REDACTED]. Or [REDACTED]. Derek went to [REDACTED], said it was great.
—We could go to 537061696e and then get the boat to [REDACTED].
—How long does that take?
—It’s really close. Really short.
—Is it?
—Yeah. If you look at it on a map. It’s where 537061696e and Africa nearly touch.
At home, she went online and found a map. They looked up ferries and prices. He wondered whether they could live in [REDACTED]. They could probably live more easily in 537061696e. He wondered what they could do. He could learn Spanish.
He thought that Mishazzo probably had lots of friends in 537061696e.
So then now. What are you interested in?
—Sir?
Mishazzo was sitting on the back seat with his legs crossed, smoking a cigarette, looking at him in the rearview mirror.
—Is it money? Are you interested in money?
—Yes, I am.
—Well, of course. You think I pay you well?
—Yes, sir.
Mishazzo was smiling. He had come out of a meeting in a Golders Green café, all smiles. Now they were stuck in traffic on the Hampstead Heath back road.
—You have a girl?
He blushed. It was the first time Mishazzo had asked. He had a plan. He had the whole thing worked out and ready. But still he blushed.
—A boy?
—No, I have a girlfriend.
—It’s a serious thing? A love thing?
—No, not really. We get on well. But it’s . . . it’s not very serious.
—You live with her?
—We share, yes. It’s more convenient that way. Financially. Makes sense.
—You love her?
—It’s more like a friendship.
—You love your friends, though.
—I suppose. But it is a different sort of love.
He nodded in the mirror, his face behind smoke.
They sat still for a while. Mishazzo rarely liked the radio. Sometimes he requested a CD. He liked world music. African. Middle Eastern. He would tap his hand on his knee, or bounce his leg up and down. He liked joyful music.
—I’ll see. Maybe you can do more driving. And maybe some other things, too. You are very young, and you have no face. So. More money for you. And your girlfriend.
When they got into Highgate, Mishazzo told him to pull in to the side of the road and to turn around and look at him.
—You should be careful who you make your friend. And who you take into your bed. They are different things. If you mix them up you lose . . . perspective on both of them. Do not mix them up. That is my advice to you, my friend. The dick has no loyalty. Only the heart. But your head manages them both. So be clever. Be happy. Have fun. Have money. Have beautiful girls. Have a good life. Do not fuck your friends. Only your lovers. Never fuck your friends.
He met Hawthorn in some coffee shop on Stroud Green Road, full of people with laptops. He looked at screens and bags and people’s faces. He didn’t know if they were students or what. They took a table outside. It was hot. Hawthorn was wearing a T-shirt and jeans. He was less like a cop. But his leg jigged up and down all the time and his hair was cut.
—Are you off duty?
—Not really.
Hawthorn asked him where he’d been on Thursday and Friday. He got him to go through the times, the route he’d taken. How many phone calls had Mishazzo made? What had he said? What names did he use? Had he opened his briefcase? What was in it? What sort of mood was Mishazzo in? He bought the coffees. After he’d asked his questions and written some stuff down in his notebook he sat back in his chair and smiled.
—Now I’m off duty.
The way he said it. It sounded like a sort of come-on. They looked at each other. Hawthorn half blushed, up near the tops of his cheeks, like some invisible thing had just flicked fingernails against his face. He looked away.
Nothing happened for a while. Then Hawthorn looked back at him. Held his eyes. For exactly the amount of time it takes for a look like that to become a look like that.
They met sometimes in the coffee shop on Stroud Green Road, sometimes in a pub in Holloway. Or near Hawthorn’s flat, so that they could go there, if they wanted to. Sometimes he met Child as well, and then they usually just sat in Child’s car, or they drove around. Hawthorn wrote in his notebook. He got the feeling that they knew everything already. That he was just confirming stuff. Maybe they were testing him. He made a few things up. He told them about a route he hadn’t taken. Said they’d gone out to Hackney when they hadn’t. Nothing seemed to surprise them. He didn’t understand why any of it was important—the roads and the times—unless they were trying to trip him up. He knew the names were important. The phone calls, the buildings and houses and cafés he waited outside. The bits of conversations. 

He thought that it was all probably bullshit. That he wasn’t telling them anything they needed to know. They would spend six months getting him used to them, and then they would start to press. See if you can find out this or that. Or maybe they were waiting for Mishazzo to begin to trust him more.
He didn’t tell them about the bottle. About sitting there dying for a piss, sure that as soon as he started Mishazzo would reappear. He didn’t tell them about smoking more than he’d ever smoked before, out of boredom. He didn’t tell them about trying to think of things to write in the book, or how most of the things he thought of were things he would never write. His mind was dividing. Parts of it were roped off. There were things he could say. There were things he could not say but could write in the book. And now there were things he could neither say nor write but only think, and they pressed up against the others like they wanted a fight.
Hawthorn told him sometimes about other cases he was working on. A couple of murders. A robbery. Vague, no details. Sometimes Hawthorn asked him if he knew certain people. He named names. Most of them were unfamiliar. Once or twice there was one he thought he knew, but he said nothing.
—How come you know no one?
—I’m not . . .
—What?
He brushed the skin of his chest.
—I’m not a crook. I don’t hang out with crooks.
Hawthorn said nothing for a while. He was smiling.
—What are you then?
—I just do the driving thing.
—And the pickpocketing thing. And the hotel thing.
—I rob, sometimes. Yeah. But I’m not a crook. I don’t like crooks. I don’t like all that. I stay away from it. I avoid those people.
—How are you going to get ahead?
—I don’t want to get ahead.
Mishazzo asked him one day:
—Why are you looking in the mirror?
—I am?
—Are we being followed?
—No. I don’t think so.
—So why?
—I didn’t know I was looking in the mirror.
—You’re looking in the mirror all the time.
—Sorry.
—That’s O.K. You know what to do if we’re being followed?
—I tell you. I drive normally. I describe the car.
—Yes. If it happens, then we drive back to Tottenham. Back to the office. Nice and slow. Nice and normal. It will be police.
He nodded.
Mishazzo swayed his shoulders so that his head travelled from one edge of the mirror to the other.
—If it isn’t police, then what do you do?
Price had said that it would always be police. That no one else is that stupid.
—I don’t know.
Mishazzo laughed.
—Then we call the fucking police, my friend. We call 999, and you put your fucking foot down.
One day he counted up all the things he’d written. And he counted up all the things she had written. He had written more. More sentences, entries, whatever they were. He wasn’t sure about words. Sometimes she wrote a whole page. Or more. Sometimes she drew little doodles, or pictures. Faces and flowers and a house with windows and a fence in the front and a path to the door, and the sun overhead. Her drawings were terrible, like an infant’s. But he stared at them for ages. Once, he started to draw something. A face, he thought. But it was a mess from the first mark he made, and he scribbled it out.
He didn’t tell Hawthorn about the book.
He thought that if she died he would keep it. But he would destroy it before he died, and he would let no one else look at it. No one else in the world, ever, would read it. It would be something that had only happened for them, and when they were gone it would be something that had never happened.
That made him sad to the point of crying, almost, and he felt like an idiot.
One morning there was a man in the car with Mishazzo. This was not unusual. But this time Mishazzo did not want to go to a café. He wanted to be driven around.
—Drive east. Go toward the Olympics. I need to see what it looks like now. We can talk as we drive.
He could sense a pause as the other man gave Mishazzo a look.
—It’s O.K., Mishazzo said quietly. It’s good.
They talked about cars. They talked about money. They talked about expanding something that was working well. The man mentioned a name. Gull. Gull, he said, wanted no splashback. They talked about money again. Mishazzo produced a little calculator from his briefcase and they added numbers. Small numbers: 86 plus 134, 17 divided by 5. The other man wrote down some of the numbers on a scrap of paper on his knee. They seemed then to be talking about hurting someone, but then they seemed to be talking simply about collecting someone. Or something. Then they were laughing about everything.
He drove around the Olympic fences, past the hoardings, the long, colorful boards sometimes marked by graffiti. They couldn’t really see anything. Mishazzo got bored and told him to turn around. In the back seat they were talking about music. Mishazzo wanted a CD played, then a different one, a specific song.
He braked sharply. He’d been fiddling with the CD player. There was a short silence. Then he apologized.
—My fault, Mishazzo said. I employ you to drive. Not to be my fucking d.j.
Mishazzo and the other man started to sing in the back seat. They sang songs they both knew in raucous, untuned voices and laughed, and he found himself laughing as well, and singing sometimes, too, when he knew the words or the tune.
The man handed him a roll of money when he got out of the car. It was nearly a hundred pounds in grubby fives and tens that smelled of his father’s kitchen, and sweat, and ropes. Mishazzo told him to drive back to the office. That was it for the day.
—Now you see, he said. Now you see how dull my business is. But it pays well. And it makes you friends.
They lay next to each other in the bed and touched each other and laid their faces against each other, and when they were tired of talking they fucked and when they were tired of fucking they talked, and many different afternoons became one afternoon that persisted in his mind for the rest of his life and he never knew what to make of it, then or after.
What does Mishazzo do?
—What?
—Mishazzo. Why are you interested in him? What does he do?
—You don’t know?
—I know some.
Hawthorn didn’t say anything.
—I know he does some buying and selling. Stolen cars.
Hawthorn nodded.
—I know he owns a couple of cafés.
—He does.
—They’re just cafés.
—Yeah. They are.
—So what else does he do?
Hawthorn hummed and rubbed his nose.
—He owns two laundrettes.
—I didn’t know that.
—Yeah. The laundrettes, the cafés. He owns that building in Tottenham.
—The office? I thought he rented.
—No. He’s the landlord. Or maybe his daughter is.
—He has a daughter?
—He has two daughters. Their mother is dead.
—So what does he do?
—He provides. Largely speaking, that’s what he does. He’s a businessman. He talks. He makes deals. He negotiates. He opens up conversations with people running various . . . rackets, all over North London. He offers them things they might need. Resources. And he introduces people to other people. Broker. Provider. Facilitator.
He nodded. Mishazzo was a businessman. A talker. Like his father.
—It’s tangled.
He wanted to ask Hawthorn how dangerous he was. Whether Mishazzo hurt people. Whether he got Price to hurt people. Whether that was part of business or whether it was all exaggerated.
—What laws has he broken then?
—All of them.
—He doesn’t kill people.
Hawthorn looked at him suddenly, his eyes a bit wide.
—He doesn’t kill people, he agreed.
—He doesn’t?
—No.
They said no more about it. He didn’t believe him.
Child looked at them. He looked at them and seemed to shut his eyes for a tiny moment. He looked from one to the other and seemed to pause, and shut his eyes. For a second. Two seconds. And then he muttered, Oh, for fuck’s sake and he went to the counter to pay for their coffees and Hawthorn’s cake slice and the bottle of water.
He never saw Child again.
Mishazzo stared at him. In the mirror. All he could see was the middle of Mishazzo’s face. His eyes. Half of his forehead. His nose. His upper lip. Mishazzo said nothing. He didn’t want music. They were driving to the café in Holloway. He looked sad. As if he wanted to confide something.
—Your girl is good?
—Yes, sir.
—What is her name?
—Mary, he lied.
Mishazzo laughed.
—She is a virgin?
He turned into Seven Sisters Road. The sun came through the passenger window and warmed his face. He did not want anything to go wrong.
—She has a job?
—Yes.
—What does she do?
—She’s a receptionist.
Mishazzo nodded.
—Where is she a receptionist?
—At an estate agent’s.
—Where?
—Oh. Down in the City.
—Down in the City. She likes that?
—Yes, I think so.
—You think so?
—She likes it. She likes working there. She likes the people. She likes being in the City.
—Commercial?
He looked in the mirror at Mishazzo’s third of a face. He could tell nothing from it.
—What do you mean?
—Commercial property? Residential property?
—Residential.
Mishazzo’s voice was impatient. Maybe it was the traffic. The traffic was light. But it was veering all over the road. He felt his face light up. His skin was hot on the left.
—Do you want me to stay on Seven Sisters?
—Why wouldn’t you stay on Seven Sisters?
Mishazzo’s eyes were on his left. Everything was burning up. He wanted to crash the car. For a second he thought about it. He could swerve suddenly, glance off the van on his inside, spin around, be hit by the approaching bus. He could skid off the road into railings. He could hurt himself if he did it hard enough. He could end up in a bed with people bringing him grapes and cards, watching TV all day, with her by his side.
He shifted in his seat so that the eyes were smaller. He drove with his shoulder pressed up against the door as if trying to open it.
He called Hawthorn. It went straight to voice mail, and he hung up.
He walked through the park. He tried Hawthorn again. Twice.
He sat on a bench and looked at some boys playing football. He called again and left a message.
—Call me, please. As soon as you can.
She was at work. He could see the café from the bench. He stayed put. There were the boys playing football. There were some people walking. There were no parked cars.
She was surprised to see him.
—What’s wrong?
—Nothing is wrong. I finished early. Thought I’d come over.
She took his arm and they walked along the canal for a while. She kept asking him what was wrong. He kept laughing and saying, Nothing. Nothing.
Hawthorn called him back just as they got home.
—What is it?
—Nothing.
—Nothing?
—What time tomorrow?
—The usual. What’s wrong?
He looked at his fingers and watched her close the curtains against the low sun. He felt that something awful was happening but he didn’t know what, and he stared at her back in shadow and suspected that the feeling itself was the awful thing, and then she said something and he lost his train of thought and Hawthorn had hung up. 
He waited by the car, smoking, looking at the street. He wasn’t thinking about anything. He didn’t notice Price until he heard him. Price standing in the door of the café a couple of doors down from the office. They sat in there a lot of the time—Price and some of the others that he’d driven around. They sat there fiddling with their phones, reading the papers, annoying the waitress, doing whatever it was they did, coming and going.
—You avoiding me?
—What?
Price motioned to him. He glanced at the office, threw down his cigarette, walked over.
—I never see you these days. You don’t socialize. You don’t come see me.
—Well, I’m working. It’s been busy.
—Lots of busy. Hither and thither and yon. It’s as good as the Knowledge.
He nodded. Price was smiling. All friendly, hands in pockets, rocking back and forth a little.
—How’s the car? It need anything?
—It’s fine.
—How’s the missus?
He tensed, and his stomach did something, and he tried to look blank but he was sure he didn’t.
—Who?
—Mary, Mary, all contrary. The boss was telling me. You should come out at the weekend. To my place. Sunday afternoon. I have some of the lads over sometimes. Girlfriends, wives, kids. That sort of thing.
Price was wearing jeans. A blue jumper. He was smiling. He had his hands stuck halfway into his pockets.
—Don’t look so fucking shocked, kid. It’s a good thing. Wholesome. Family-friendly. Barbecue and drinks. Got a big plunge-pool thing for the kids. Watch out for Vinnie’s missus after she’s had a couple. You’ll love it.
—Whereabouts?
—Near Braintree. Easy. You can take the car, I suppose. But probably better to hitch a lift with Pavel. Teetotal. He doesn’t live far from your place. Five minutes. Give or take.
—I said I’d see my father this weekend.
Price frowned.
—Don’t bring your father, no offense.
—I mightn’t be able to make it though.
Price rocked back and forth. Glanced to his left.
—You should come. You know, put on some friendly. It’d be smart. Let me know tomorrow.
Price nodded to his left.
—Your date is here.
Mishazzo was standing outside the office door looking at them, a little smile on his face, his umbrella clutched under his arm and his hands peeling the cellophane off a packet of cigarettes.
They drove all the way to Luton, not talking, listening to Ernest Carvallio’s “Music of the Barrios,” the smile on Mishazzo’s face as constant as the road.
Is there a procedure? For . . . if I get in trouble. What happens? What do you do?
Hawthorn rubbed his eyes. He smelled of a long day.
—You’re a long way off anything like that.
—He knows where I live.
—Of course he knows where you live. What made you think he wouldn’t know where you live? You probably told him where you live. When you went there first.
—No.
—Your father then.
He said nothing. He sipped his coffee. He bounced his fucking knee and he looked out the fucking window.
—So you won’t help us?
—You don’t need help. You’re panicking. You’re being stupid. They are not suspicious. They like you. They’re being friendly.
He tried to tell her to tie him tighter. To hit him harder. To yank his head back by the hair. He wanted her to spit in his face, in his mouth. He wanted her to hit him. But he was no good at talking. He tried to make her guess things by the way he reacted. She seemed to get it. But not enough. She was too careful, too considerate. She checked too much. He thought about writing it in the book. Like instructions. But the book was not for that.
Price called him on the Friday.
—Don’t need you today after all.
—No?
—I’ll pay you half.
—O.K.
—You coming on Sunday?
—Sure.
—Good boy. I’ll get Pavel to pick you up about midday. What’s the girlfriend’s name again?
He looked at the curtain. The day was making it bulge. She had gone to work. He pressed his thumb against a bruise on his ribs.
—Mary.
—Right. Mary. Informal. Bring a bottle.
And he hung up. Without asking for the address. Not even which flat. Nothing.
You’re not going to help us.
Hawthorn sighed again.
—What do you want me to do?
—Money. At least some money.
—For what?
—To get away.
Hawthorn laughed.
—Where are you going to go?
—[REDACTED].
—[REDACTED]. What are you talking about?
—Or 537061696e. [REDACTED] or 537061696e.
Hawthorn crossed his arms. He looked like he was going to cry, but his body was angry and his voice was cold and he was laughing at him. They sat in Hawthorn’s kitchen, at Hawthorn’s table. He felt like he had never been there before.
—You want to run away to [REDACTED] or 537061696e because a couple of dodgy geezers have invited you to a barbecue?
Hawthorn’s voice was quiet. There was a shake in it. He couldn’t tell if it was laughter or anger.
Fuck. Fuck it.
He tried to hit Hawthorn. He threw his left arm out—why his left arm he didn’t know, all his strength was in the right—and Hawthorn simply leaned away from it, and it glanced off his shoulder, maybe his ear, and Hawthorn had stood and his chair was clattering to the floor, and he had stood up, too, apparently, and he threw the right and Hawthorn caught it, and something hit his stomach and he clenched, and then Hawthorn was smothering him, his arms around him, clamping him down so that he could not hit again, couldn’t raise his hands, and he tried to butt with his head and break the hold, but he was just jerking in Hawthorn’s arms like a crying child and he could hear sobs, and he looked for the door, he just wanted the door, and he struggled and he shouted, Let me fucking go, and he had made no impact at all, none, and they broke from each other and he could not look back, and there was just a simple gap where there had previously been something complicated. On the stairs he wiped his cheeks but they were dry.
She was watching television. He stood in the doorway. Eventually she looked back at him.
—What is it?
—We have to go.
—What?
—Pack, he said. Quickly.
She stared at him. He could see her start to feel afraid. It was the way he looked.
—“EastEnders,” she said, very quietly.
—Pack. Now. Not much. Basic stuff. Money. Passport. Some clothes. We might not be back . . . for a while.
—What the fuck?
—Just do it.
He went to the bedroom. He threw things on the bed. Clothes. He couldn’t think. He pulled bags from the top of the wardrobe. He took the shoebox from the bottom drawer, tipped it out on the dresser. Her passport, his, the other half of his driver’s license, a credit card he never used, some euro notes. He stopped. He took off his shoes, his jeans. He walked back into the living room. She was on the phone.
—Who are you talking to?
—My mother.
He didn’t know what to say.
—Tell her you’ll call her tomorrow.
He went to the bathroom. He took off the rest of his clothes and switched on the shower. He was sweating. He stepped in and stood under the water and he thought about trains. Trains, hotels, money. He thought through all of it again. He knew he wasn’t thinking straight, but he didn’t know how to fix that. After a few minutes she came in.
—Where are we going?
—[REDACTED].
—What’s happened?
—I’ll tell you when we get going. Please go and pack.
ADVERTISEMENT
When he got out she was still there.
—It’s O.K., he said. Everything will be O.K. Just fucking pack, will you.
—You have to tell me.
—I fucked up. Stay if you want to. I have to leave. I’m going in about ten minutes.
He walked, dripping, through to the bedroom. In the doorway he froze. It took him a second or two to realize that it hadn’t been ransacked, that he’d made the mess himself.
In the taxi, she called her mother and told her they were flying to 537061696e for a couple of days on a cheap last-minute deal. At St. Pancras station they had to rush for the Eurostar. It hadn’t cost much, he told her. He ran up the escalators with both their bags. He could hear himself wheezing. Cigarettes. They had two seats facing the wrong way. When they were settled he kissed her. Then he told her. He told her about Mishazzo, that he was a big deal. He told her about the violence. How they went and beat people up. He told her about Price. He told her about the gunshot. He told her about the two policemen who had picked him up by the Emirates. He told her about the deal they gave him. This was the story. He told her about the hotel jobs. He told her that he’d had no choice. He told her that Price was a psycho. He told her that the cops were psychos, too. He told her that Price had become suspicious. He didn’t know why. Maybe he’d heard something. That the cops were talking to someone. Price was onto him, he thought. He’d tried to keep her out of it. But Price knew where they lived.
—I didn’t tell them anything about you. Nothing true. They think you work at an estate agent’s. They think you’re called Mary.
—What the fuck?
—They fucking kill people. You understand? They kill people. I’m driving this guy around and I’m telling the cops where I take him and he has people beaten up, killed. You understand that? This is the fucking story.
He was speaking through his teeth, trying to be quiet. Around them were couples just like them. Couples went to [REDACTED] on the train—it was what they did.
She wanted to know why he hadn’t told her about the hotels. Then she wanted to know more about the violence. She wanted to know what Mishazzo did.
—He’s a businessman. Resources. He puts people together.
—What are you talking about? What resources?
He told her about the cars.
—He steals cars?
—No. He sells them on. Stolen. Or he trades them. That’s part of it.
—What’s the other part of it?
—I don’t know. He’s a broker.
—A broker?
He nodded.
—What the fuck is a broker?
He told her again about the shot. About Mishazzo’s face in the rearview mirror. He mangled things. They sounded slight in his mouth, like nothing. Like he made them up. But this was what was happening to them. They had to get away because of what mattered. And nothing else mattered. Why couldn’t she see?
He stopped suddenly. The book. He remembered the book. He had left it. It had slipped his mind. He stopped talking in the middle of a sentence and he looked at her. Jesus.
—What?
—The book.
He could not feel the train moving. He could feel nothing. He was encased in something, buried in something, smothered or drowning. His hand was shaking and he could not focus his eyes and he stared at her for a second and then he could not see her.
She moved toward him as if he was disappearing, and her face became something he could see, and she reached out to him and she held his head.
—I have it. I have it.
She made him look at her.
—I have it. It’s in my bag. I have it.
He breathed out but could not breathe in. He let himself slump against her. There was no relief. He had forgotten it. He had run and left it behind. He had run. All those words. ♦

