
THE TRUSTY
By Ron Rash
They had been moving up the road a week without seeing another farmhouse, and the nearest well, at least the nearest the owner would let Sinkler use, was half a mile back. What had been a trusty sluff job was now as onerous as swinging a kaiser blade or shovelling out ditches. As soon as he’d hauled the buckets back to the cage truck it was time to go again. He asked Vickery if someone could spell him, and the bull guard smiled and said that Sinkler could always strap on a pair of leg irons and grab a handle. “Bolick just killed a rattlesnake in them weeds yonder,” the bull guard said. “I bet he’d square a trade with you.” When Sinkler asked if come morning he could walk ahead to search for another well, Vickery’s lips tightened, but he nodded.
The next day, Sinkler took the metal buckets and walked until he found a farmhouse. It was no closer than the other, even a bit farther, but worth padding the hoof a few extra steps. The well he’d been using belonged to a hunchbacked widow. The woman who appeared in this doorway wore her hair in a similar tight bun and draped herself in the same sort of flour-cloth dress, but she looked to be in her mid-twenties, like Sinkler. Two weeks would pass before they got beyond this farmhouse, perhaps another two weeks before the next well. Plenty of time to quench a different kind of thirst. As he entered the yard, the woman looked past the barn to a field where a man and his draft horse were plowing. The woman gave a brisk whistle and the farmer paused and looked their way. Sinkler stopped but did not set the buckets down.
“What you want,” the woman said, not so much a question as a demand.
“Water,” Sinkler answered. “We’ve got a chain gang working on the road.”
“I’d have reckoned you to bring water with you.”
“Not enough for ten men all day.”
The woman looked out at the field again. Her husband watched but did not unloop the rein from around his neck. The woman stepped onto the six nailed-together planks that looked more like a raft than a porch. Firewood was stacked on one side, and closer to the door an axe leaned between a shovel and a hoe. She let her eyes settle on the axe long enough to make sure he noticed it. Sinkler saw now that she was younger than he’d thought, maybe eighteen, at most twenty, more girl than woman.
“How come you not to have chains on you?”
“I’m a trusty,” Sinkler said, smiling. “A prisoner, but one that can be trusted.”
“And all you want is water?”
Sinkler thought of several possible answers.
“That’s what they sent me for.”
“I don’t reckon there to be any money in it for us?” the girl asked.
“No, just gratitude from a bunch of thirsty men, and especially me for not having to haul it so far.”
“I’ll have to ask my man,” she said. “Stay here in the yard.”
For a moment he thought she might take the axe with her. As she walked into the field, Sinkler studied the house, which was no bigger than a fishing shack. The dwelling appeared to have been built in the previous century. The door opened with a latch, not a knob, and no glass filled the window frames. Sinkler stepped closer to the entrance and saw two ladder-back chairs and a small table set on a puncheon floor. Sinkler wondered if these apple-knockers had heard they were supposed to be getting a new deal.
“You can use the well,” the girl said when she returned, “but he said you need to forget one of them pails here next time you come asking for water.”
Worth it, he figured, even if Vickery took the money out of Sinkler’s own pocket, especially with no sign of another farmhouse. It would be a half-dollar at most, easily made up with one slick deal in a poker game. He nodded and went to the well, sent the rusty bucket down into the dark. The girl went up on the porch but didn’t go inside.
“What you in prison for?”
“Thinking a bank manager wouldn’t notice his teller slipping a few bills in his pocket.”
“Whereabouts?”
“Raleigh.”
“I ain’t never been past Asheville,” the girl said. “How long you in for?”
“Five years. I’ve done sixteen months.”
Sinkler raised the bucket, water leaking from the bottom as he transferred its contents. The girl stayed on the porch, making sure that all he took was water.
“You lived here long?”
“Me and Chet been here a year,” the girl said. “I grew up across the ridge yonder.”
“You two live alone, do you?”
“We do,” the girl said, “but there’s a shotgun just inside the door and I know how to bead it.”
“I’m sure you do,” Sinkler said. “You mind telling me your name, just so I’ll know what to call you?”
“Lucy Sorrels.”
He waited to see if she’d ask his.
“Mine’s Sinkler,” he said when she didn’t.
He filled the second bucket but made no move to leave, instead looking around at the trees and mountains as if just noticing them. Then he smiled and gave a slight nod.
“Must get lonely being out so far from everything,” Sinkler said. “At least, I would think so.”
“And I’d think them men to be getting thirsty,” Lucy Sorrels said.
“Probably,” he agreed, surprised at the smarts she showed in turning his words back on him. “But I’ll return soon to brighten your morning.”
“When you planning to leave one of them pails?” she asked.
“End of the day.”
She nodded and turned and went into the shack.
“The rope broke,” he told Vickery as the prisoners piled into the truck at quitting time.
The guard looked not so much skeptical as aggrieved that Sinkler thought him fool enough to believe it. Vickery answered that if Sinkler thought he’d lightened his load he was mistaken. It’d be easy enough to find another bucket, maybe one that could hold an extra gallon. Sinkler shrugged and lifted himself into the cage truck, found a place on the metal bench among the sweating convicts. He’d won over the other guards with cigarettes and small loans, that and his mush talk, but not Vickery, who’d argued that making Sinkler a trusty would only give him a head start when he tried to escape.
The bull guard was right about that. Sinkler had more than fifty dollars in poker winnings now, plenty enough cush to get him across the [REDACTED] to where he could finally shed himself of the whole damn region. He’d grown up in Montgomery, but when the law got too interested in his comings and goings he’d gone north to [REDACTED] and then west to [REDACTED], before recrossing [REDACTED] on his way to Raleigh. Sinkler’s talents had led him to establishments where his sleight of hand needed no deck of cards. A decent suit, clean fingernails, and buffed shoes, and he could walk into a business and be greeted as a solid citizen. Tell a story about being in town because of an ailing mother, and you were the cat’s pajamas. They’d take the Help Wanted sign out of the window and pretty much replace it with Help Yourself. Sinkler remembered the afternoon in [REDACTED] when he’d stood by the river after grifting a clothing store of forty dollars in two months. Keep heading west or turn back east—that was the choice. He’d flipped a silver dollar to decide, a rare moment when he’d trusted his life purely to luck.
This time he’d cross the river, start in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED]. He’d work the stores and cafés and newsstands and anywhere else with a till or a cash register. Except for a bank. Crooked as bankers were, Sinkler should have realized how quickly they’d recognize him as one of their own. No, he’d not make that mistake again.
That night, when the stockade lights were snuffed, he lay in his bunk and thought about Lucy Sorrels. Eighteen months, a year and a half, had passed since he’d been with a woman. After that long, almost any female would make the sap rise. There was nothing about her face to hold a man’s attention, but curves tightened the right parts of her dress. Nice legs, too. Each trip to the well, he had tried to make small talk. Lucy Sorrels had given him the icy mitts, but he had a month to warm her up. It was only on the last haul that the husband had come in from his field. He’d barely responded to Sinkler’s “how do you do”s and “much obliged”s. He looked to be around forty, and Sinkler suspected that part of his terseness was due to the presence of a younger man around his wife. After a few moments, the farmer had nodded at the pail in Sinkler’s left hand. “You’ll be leaving that, right?” When Sinkler said yes, the husband told Lucy to switch it with the leaky well bucket, then walked into the barn.
Two days passed before Lucy asked if he’d ever thought of trying to escape.
“Of course,” Sinkler answered. “Have you?”
She looked at him in a way that he could not read.
“How come you ain’t done it, then? They let you roam near anywhere you want, and you ain’t got shackles.”
“Maybe I enjoy the free room and board,” Sinkler answered. He turned a thumb toward his stripes. “Nice duds, too. They even let you change them out every Sunday.”
“I don’t think I could stand it,” Lucy Sorrels said. “Being locked up so long and knowing I still had nigh on three years.”
He checked her lips for the slightest upward curve of a smile, but it wasn’t there.
“Yeah,” Sinkler said, taking a step closer. “You don’t seem the sort to stand being locked up. I’d think a young gal pretty as you would want to see more of the world.”
“How come you ain’t done it?” she asked again, and brushed some loose wisps of hair behind her ear.
“Maybe the same reason as you,” Sinkler said. “Out here in the boonies you can’t exactly get whisked away to another place. I haven’t seen more than a couple of cars and trucks on this road, and those driving them know there’s prisoners about. They wouldn’t be fool enough to pick up a stranger. Haven’t seen a lot of train tracks crossing the road, either.”
“Anybody ever try?” Lucy asked.
“Yeah, two weeks ago. Fellow ran that morning and the bloodhounds had him grabbing sky by dark. All he got for his trouble was a bunch of tick bites and briar scratches. That and another year added to his sentence.”
For the first time since she’d gone to fetch her husband, Lucy stepped off the porch and put some distance between her and the door. The shotgun and axe, too, which meant that she was starting to trust him at least a little. She stood in the yard and looked up at an eave, where black insects hovered around clots of dried mud.
“Them dirt daubers is a nuisance,” Lucy said. “I knock their nests down and they build them back the next day.”
“I’d guess them to be about the only thing that wants to stay around here, don’t you think?”
“You’ve got a saucy way of talking,” she said. 

“You don’t seem to mind it too much,” Sinkler answered, and nodded toward the field. “An older fellow like that usually keeps a close eye on a pretty young wife, but he must be the trusting sort, or is it he just figures he’s got you corralled in?”
He lifted the full buckets and stepped close enough to the barn not to be seen from the field. “You don’t have to stand so far from me, Lucy Sorrels. I don’t bite.”
She didn’t move toward him but she didn’t go back to the porch, either.
“If you was to escape, where would you go?”
“Might depend on who was going with me,” Sinkler answered. “What kind of place would you like to visit?”
“Like you’d just up and take me along. I’d likely that about as much as them daubers flying me out of here.”
“No, I’d need to get to know my travelling partner better,” Sinkler said. “Make sure she really cared about me. That way she wouldn’t take a notion to turn me in.”
“You mean for the reward money?”
Sinkler laughed.
“You’ve got to be a high cloud to have a reward put on you, darling. They’d not even bother to put my mug in a post office, which is fine by me. Buy my train ticket and I’d be across the [REDACTED] in two days. Matter of fact, I’ve got money enough saved up to buy two tickets.”
“Enough for two tickets?” Lucy asked.
“I do indeed.”
“Why come you to think a person would turn you in if there ain’t no reward?”
“Bad conscience—which is why I’ve got to be sure my travelling partner doesn’t have one.” Sinkler smiled. “Like I said, you don’t have to stand so far away. We could even step into the barn for a few minutes.”
Lucy looked toward the field and let her gaze linger long enough that he thought she just might do it.
“I have chores to get done,” she said and went into the shack.
Sinkler headed back down the road, thinking things out. By the time he set the sloshing buckets beside the prison truck, he’d figured a way to get Lucy Sorrels’s dress raised with more than just sweet talk. He’d tell her there was an extra set of truck keys in a guard’s front desk and that he’d steal them, bring them with him, and wait until the guards were distracted to jump in and drive away. She’d know beforehand and be in the woods down the road. They’d go to Asheville and get the first train. It was a damn good story, one Sinkler himself might have believed if he didn’t know that all the extra truck keys were locked inside a thousand-pound Mosler safe.
When he entered the yard the next morning, Lucy came to the well but stayed on the opposite side. Like a skittish dog, Sinkler thought, and imagined holding out a pack of gum or a candy bar to bring her the rest of the way. She wore the same dress as always, but her hair was unpinned and fell across her shoulders. It was blonder and curlier than he’d supposed. Set free for him, Sinkler knew. A cool, steady breeze gave the air an early-autumn feel, and helped round the curves beneath the muslin.
“Your hair being down like that—it looks good,” he said. “I bet that’s the way you wear it in bed.”
She didn’t blush. Sinkler worked the crank and the well bucket descended into the earth. Once both his buckets were filled, he explained his plan.
“There’s an easier way,” Lucy said. “One where you don’t need the truck, nor even a road.”
“I never figured you to be the know-all on prison escapes.”
“There’s a trail on the yon side of that ridge,” Lucy said, nodding past the field. “You can follow it all the way to Asheville.”
“Asheville’s at least thirty miles from here.”
“That’s by the road. It’s no more than eight if you cut through the gap. You just got to know the right trails.”
“Which I don’t.”
“I do,” she said. “I’ve done it in three hours easy.”
For a few moments, Sinkler didn’t say anything. It was as though the key he’d been imagining had suddenly appeared in his hand. He left the buckets where they were and stepped closer to the barn. When he gestured Lucy closer, she came. He settled an arm around her waist and felt her yield to him. Her lips opened to his and she did not resist when his free hand cupped a breast. To touch a woman after so long made him feather-legged. A bead of sweat trickled down his brow as she pressed her body closer and settled a hand on his thigh. Only when Sinkler tried to lead her into the barn did Lucy resist.
“He can’t see us from down there.”
“It ain’t just that,” Lucy said. “My bleed time’s started.”
Sinkler felt so rabbity that he told her he didn’t care.
“There’d be a mess and he’d know the why of it.”
He felt frustration simmer into anger. He tried to step away but Lucy pulled him back, pressed her face into his chest.
“If we was far away it wouldn’t matter. I hate it here. He cusses me near every day and won’t let me go nowhere. When he gets drunk, he’ll load his shotgun and swear he’s going to shoot me.”
She let go of him slowly. The only sound was a clucking chicken and the breeze tinking the well bucket against the narrow stone wellhead.
“All you and me have to do is get on that train in Asheville,” Lucy said, “and not him nor the law can catch us. I know where he keeps his money. I’ll get it if you ain’t got enough.”
He met her eyes, then looked past her. The sun was higher now, angled in over the mountaintops, and the new well bucket winked silver as it swayed. Sinkler lifted his gaze to the cloudless sky. It would be another hot, dry, miserable day and he’d be out in it. At quitting time, he’d go back and wash up with water dingy enough to clog a strainer, eat what would gag a hog, then at nine o’clock set his head on a grimy pillow. Three and a half more years. Sinkler studied the ridgeline, found the gap that would lead to Asheville.
“I’ve got money,” he told Lucy. “It’s the getting to where I can spend it that’s been the problem.”
That night, as he lay in his bunk, Sinkler pondered the plan. An hour would pass before anyone would start looking for him, and even then they’d search first along the road. As far out as the prisoners were working, it’d take at least four hours to get the bloodhounds on his trail, and by the time the dogs tracked him to Asheville he’d be on a train. It could be months, or never, until such a chance came again. But the suddenness of the opportunity unsettled him. He would take a couple of days, think it out. The grit in the gears would be Lucy. Giving her the slip in Asheville would be nigh impossible, so he’d be with her until the next stop, probably [REDACTED] or Raleigh. Which could be all for the better. A hotel room and a bottle of bootleg whiskey and they’d have them a high old time. He could sneak out early morning while she slept. If she took what her husband had hidden, she’d have enough for a new start, and another reason not to drop a dime and phone the police.
Of course, many another convict would simply wait until trail’s end, then let a good-sized rock take care of it, lift what money she had, and be on his way. Travelling with a girl that young was a risk. She might say or do something to make a bluecoat suspicious. Or, waking up to find him gone, put the law on him just for spite.
The next morning, the men loaded up and drove to where they’d quit the day before. They weren’t far from the farmhouse now, only a few hundred yards. As he carried the buckets up the road, Sinkler realized that if Lucy knew the trail, then the husband did, too. The guards would see the farmer in the field and tell him who they were looking for. How long after that would he find out that she was gone? It might be just minutes before the husband went to check. But only if the guards were looking in that direction. He could tell Vickery this well was low and the farmer wouldn’t let him use it anymore, so he had to go back down the road to the widow’s. He could walk in that direction and then cut into the woods and circle back.
Sinkler was already drawing water when Lucy came out. Primping for him, he knew, her hair unpinned and freshly combed, curtaining a necklace with a heart-shaped locket. She smelled good, too, a bright clean smell, like honeysuckle. In the distance, the husband was strapped to his horse, the tandem trudging endlessly across the field. From what Sinkler had seen, the man worked as hard as the road crews and had about as much to show for it. Twenty years older and too much of a gink to realize what Lucy understood at eighteen. Sinkler stepped closer to the barn and she raised her mouth to his, found his tongue with her tongue.
“I been thirsting for that all last night and this morning,” Lucy said when she broke off the kiss. “That’s what it’s like—a thirsting. Chet ain’t never been able to staunch it, but you can.”
She laid her head against his chest and held him tight. Feeling the desperation of her embrace, Sinkler knew that she’d risk her life to help him get away, help them get away. But a girl her age could turn quick as a weathervane. He set his hands on her shoulders and gently but firmly pushed her back enough to meet her eyes.
“You ain’t just playing some make-believe with me, because if you are it’s time to quit playing.”
“I’ll leave this second if you got need to,” Lucy said. “I’ll go get his money right now. I counted it this morning when he left. It’s near seven dollars. That’s enough, ain’t it, at least to get us tickets?”
“You’ve never rode a train, have you?” Sinkler asked.
“No.”
“It costs more than that.”
“How much more?”
“Closer to five each,” Sinkler said, “just to get to [REDACTED] or Raleigh.”
For a few moments she said nothing, then she touched the locket.
“This is a pass-me-down from my momma. It’s pure silver and we could sell it.”
Sinkler slipped a hand under the locket, inspected it with the feigned attentiveness of a jeweller.
“And all this time I thought you had a heart of gold, Lucy Sorrels,” Sinkler said and smiled as he let the locket slide off his palm. “No, darling. You keep it around your pretty neck. I got plenty for tickets, and maybe something extra for a shiny bracelet to go with that necklace.”
“Then I want to go tomorrow,” Lucy said, and moved closer to him. “My bleed time is near over.”
Sinkler smelled the honeysuckle and desire swamped him. He tried to clear his mind and come up with reasons to delay, but none came.
“We’ll leave in the morning,” Sinkler said.
“All right,” she said, touching him a moment longer before removing her hand.
Sinkler nodded. “We’ll have to travel light.”
“I don’t mind that,” Lucy said. “It ain’t like I got piddling anyway.”
“Can you get me one of his shirts and some pants?”
Lucy nodded.
“Don’t pack any of it until tomorrow morning when he’s in the field,” Sinkler said.
“Where are we going?” she asked. “I mean, for good?”
“Where do you want to go?”
“I was notioning [REDACTED]. They say it’s like Paradise out there.”
“That’ll do me just fine,” Sinkler said, then grinned. “That’s just where an angel like you belongs.”
The next morning, he told Vickery that the Sorrelses’ well was going dry and he’d have to backtrack to the other one. “That’ll be almost a mile jaunt for you,” Vickery said, and shook his head in mock sympathy. Sinkler walked until he was out of sight. He found himself a marker, a big oak with a trunk cracked by lightning, then stepped over the ditch and entered the woods. He set the buckets by a rotting stump, close enough to the oak tree to be easily found if something went wrong. Because Sinkler knew that, when it came time to lay down or fold, Lucy might still think twice about leaving her folks or trusting someone she’d hardly known two weeks, and a convict at that. Or the husband might notice a little thing like Lucy not gathering eggs or not putting a kettle on for supper, things Sinkler should have warned her to do.
Sinkler stayed close to the road, and soon heard the clink of leg chains and the rasp of shovels gathering dirt. Glimpses of black-and-white caught his eye as he made his way past. The sounds of the chain gang faded, and not long after that the trees thinned, the barn’s gray planking filling the gaps. Sinkler did not enter the yard. Lucy stood just inside the farmhouse door. He studied the shack for any hint that the farmer had found out. But all was as it had been, clothing pinned on the wire between two trees, cracked corn spilled on the ground for the chickens, the axe still on the porch beside the hoe. He angled around the barn until he could see the field. The farmer was there, hitched to the horse and plow. Sinkler called her name and Lucy stepped out on the porch. She wore the same muslin dress and carried a knotted bedsheet in her hand. When she got to the woods, Lucy opened the bedsheet and removed a shirt and what was little more than two slaps of tied leather.
“Go over by the well and put these brogans on,” Lucy said. “It’s a way to fool them hounds.”
“We need to get going,” Sinkler said.
“It’ll just take a minute.”
He did what she asked, checking the field to make sure that the farmer wasn’t looking in their direction.
“Keep your shoes in your hand,” Lucy said, and walked toward Sinkler with the shirt.
When she was close, Lucy got on her knees and rubbed the shirt cloth over the ground, all the way to Sinkler’s feet.
“Walk over to the other side of the barn,” she told him, scrubbing the ground as she followed.
She motioned him to stay put and retrieved the bedsheet.
“This way,” she said, and led him down the slanted ground and into the woods.
“You expect me to wear these all the way to Asheville?” Sinkler said after the flapping leather almost tripped him.
“No, just up to the ridge.”
They stayed in the woods and along the field’s far edge and then climbed the ridge. At the top Sinkler took off the brogans and looked back through the trees and saw the square of plowed soil, now no bigger than a barn door. The farmer was still there.
Lucy untied the bedsheet and handed him the pants and shirt. He took off his stripes and hid them behind a tree. Briefly, Sinkler thought about taking a little longer before he dressed, suggesting to Lucy that the bedsheet might have another use. Just a few more hours, he reminded himself, you’ll be safe for sure and rolling with her in a big soft bed. The chambray shirt wasn’t a bad fit, but the denim pants hung loose on his hips. Every few steps, Sinkler had to hitch them back up. The bedsheet held nothing more and Lucy stuffed it in a rock crevice.
“You bring that money?” he asked.
“You claimed us not to need it,” Lucy said, a harshness in her voice he’d not heard before. “You weren’t trifling with me about having money for the train tickets, were you?”
“No, darling, and plenty enough to buy you that bracelet and a real dress instead of that flour sack you got on. Stick with me and you’ll ride the cushions.”
They moved down the ridge through a thicket of rhododendron, the ground so aslant that in a couple of places he’d have tumbled if he hadn’t watched how Lucy did it, front foot sideways and leaning backward. At the bottom, the trail forked. Lucy nodded to the left. The land continued downhill, then curved and levelled out. After a while, the path snaked into the undergrowth and Sinkler knew that without Lucy he’d be completely lost. You’re doing as much for her as she for you, he reminded himself, and thought again about what another convict might do, what he’d known all along he couldn’t do. When others had brought derringers or [REDACTED] toothpicks to card games, Sinkler had come empty-handed; either one could take its owner straight to the morgue or the prison. He’d always made a show of slapping his pockets and opening his coat at such gatherings. “I’ll not hurt anything but a fellow’s wallet,” he’d say. Men had been killed twice in his presence, but he’d never had a weapon aimed in his direction.
Near another ridge, they crossed a creek that was little more than a spring seep. They followed the ridge awhile, and then the trail widened and they moved back downhill and up again. Each rise and fall of the land looked like what had come before. The mountain air was thin, and if Sinkler hadn’t been hauling water the distances he had he wouldn’t have had the spunk to keep going. They went on, the trees shading them from the sun, but even so he grew thirsty and kept hoping they’d come to a stream he could drink from. There was no stream, but they finally came to another spring seep.
“I’ve got to have some water,” he said.
Sinkler kneeled beside the creek. The water was so shallow that he had to lean over and steady himself with one hand, cupping the other to get a dozen leaky palmfuls in his mouth. He stood and brushed the damp sand off his hand and his knees. The woods were completely silent, no murmur of wind, not a bird singing.
The trees shut out much of the sky, but he could tell that the sun was starting to slip behind the mountains. Fewer dapples of light were on the forest floor, more shadows. Soon the prisoners would be heading back, one man fewer. Come suppertime, the ginks would be spooning beans off a tin plate while Sinkler sat in a dining car eating steak with silverware. By then, the warden would have chewed out Vickery’s skinny ass but good, maybe even fired him. The other guards, the ones he’d duped even more, would be explaining why they’d recommended making Sinkler a trusty in the first place. 

When the trail narrowed again, a branch snagged Lucy’s sleeve and ripped the frayed muslin. She surprised him with her profanity as she examined the torn cloth.
“I’d not think a sweet little gal like you to know words like that.”
She glared at him and Sinkler raised his hands, palms out.
“Just teasing you a bit, darling. You should have brought another dress. I know I told you to pack light, but light didn’t mean bring nothing.”
“Maybe I ain’t got another damn dress,” Lucy said.
“But you will, and soon, and like I said it’ll be a spiffy one.”
“If I do,” Lucy said, “I’ll use this piece of shit for nothing but scrub rags.”
She let go of the cloth. The branch had scratched her neck and she touched it with her finger, confirmed that it wasn’t bleeding. Had the locket been around her neck, the chain might have snapped, but it was in her pocket. Or so he assumed. If she’d forgotten it in the haste of packing, now didn’t seem the time to bring it up.
As they continued their descent, he thought again about what would happen once they were safely free. He was starting to see a roughness about Lucy that her youth and country ways had masked. Perhaps he could take her with him beyond their first stop. He’d worked with a whore in [REDACTED] once, let her go in and distract a clerk while he took whatever they could fence. The whore hadn’t been as young and innocent-seeming as Lucy. Even Lucy’s plainness would be an advantage—harder to describe her to the law. Maybe tonight in the hotel room she’d give him another reason to let her tag along awhile.
The trail curved and then went uphill. Surely for the last time, he figured, and told himself he’d be damn glad to be back in a place where a man didn’t have to be half goat to get somewhere. Sinkler searched through the branches and leaves for a brick smokestack, the glint of a train rail. They were both breathing harder now, and even Lucy was looking tuckered.
Up ahead, another seep crossed the path and Sinkler paused. “I’m going to sip me some more water.”
“We’re almost there,” Lucy said.
He heard it then, the rasping plunge of metal into dirt. The rhododendron was too thick to see through. Whatever it was, it meant they were indeed near civilization.
“I guess we are,” he said, but Lucy had already gone ahead.
As Sinkler hitched the sagging pants up yet again, he decided that the first thing he’d do after buying the tickets was find a clothing store or gooseberry a clothesline. He didn’t want to look like a damn hobo. Even in town, they might have to walk a ways for water, so Sinkler kneeled. Someone whistled near the ridge and the rasping stopped. As he pressed his palm into the sand, he saw that a handprint was already there beside it, his handprint. Sinkler studied it awhile, then slowly rocked back until his buttocks touched his shoe heels. He stared at the two star-shaped indentations, water slowly filling the new one.
No one would hear the shot, he knew. And, in a few weeks, when autumn came and the trees started to shed, the upturned earth would be completely obscured. Leaves rustled as someone approached. The footsteps paused, and Sinkler heard the soft click of a safety being released. The leaves rustled again but he was too worn out to run. They’d want the clothes as well as the money, he told himself, and there was no reason to prolong any of it. His trembling fingers clasped the shirt’s top button, pushed it through the slit in the chambray.  

