THE CAT'S TABLE
By Michael Ondaatje

He wasn’t talking. He was looking out the window of the car all the way. The two adults in the front seat spoke quietly under their breath. He could have listened if he wanted to but he didn’t. For a while, at the section of the road where the river sometimes flooded, he could hear the spray of water under the wheels. They entered the fort and the car slipped silently past the post-office building and the clock tower. At this hour of the night, there was barely any traffic in Colombo. They drove out along Reclamation Road, past St. Anthony’s Church, and he saw the last of the food stalls, each lit with a single bulb. Then they entered a vast open space that was the harbor, with a lone string of lights in the distance along the pier. He got out and stood by the warmth of the car.
He was eleven years old that night, green as he could be about the world, when he climbed aboard the first and only ship of his life. It felt as if a city had been added to the coast, more brightly illuminated than any town or village. He went up the gangplank, watching the path of his feet—nothing ahead of him existed—and continued till he was on the other side of the ship, facing the dark harbor and sea. There were the outlines of other ships farther out, beginning to turn on their lights. He stood alone, smelling everything, then returned through the noise and the crowd to the side that faced land. A yellow glow over the city. Already it felt as if there were a wall between him and what took place there. Stewards began handing out food and cordials. He ate several sandwiches, then made his way down to his cabin, undressed, and slipped into the narrow bunk. He’d never slept under a blanket before, save once in Nuwara Eliya. He was wide awake. The cabin was below the level of the waves, so there was no porthole. He found a switch beside the bed, and when he pressed it his head and pillow were suddenly caught in a cone of light.
He did not go back up on deck for a last look, or to wave at the relatives who had brought him to the ship. He could hear singing and he imagined the slow and then eager parting of families taking place in the thrilling night air. I do not know, even now, why he chose this solitude. In films, people tear themselves away from one another weeping, watching their loved ones’ disappearing faces until all distinction is lost.
I try to imagine who the boy in the narrow bunk was. Perhaps there was no sense of self in his nervous stillness, as if he were being smuggled away accidentally, with no knowledge of the act, into the future.
It had been arranged that I would travel alone from Ceylon to [REDACTED], where my mother was living, a twenty-one-day journey. No mention had been made that this might be an unusual experience or even an exciting or dangerous one, so I did not approach it with any joy or fear. I was not forewarned that the ship would have seven levels and hold more than six hundred people, including a captain, nine cooks, engineers, and a veterinarian, or that it would contain a small jail and two chlorinated swimming pools that would actually sail with us across several oceans. The departure date had been marked casually on the calendar by my aunt, who had notified my school that I would be leaving at the end of the term, and it had been explained to me that, after I’d crossed the Arabian Sea and the Red Sea and gone through the Suez Canal into the Mediterranean, I would arrive one morning on a small pier in [REDACTED] and my mother would meet me there. It was not the scale of the journey that was of concern to me but the detail of how my mother could know when, exactly, I would arrive in that other country.
And if she would be there.
I heard a note being slipped under my door. It allotted me to Table 76 for all my meals. I dressed and went out. I was not used to stairs and climbed them warily. There were nine people at Table 76, and that included two other boys roughly my age. One of them was named Ramadhin, and the other was Cassius. The first was quiet, the other looked scornful, and we ignored one another, although I recognized Cassius. We had gone to the same school, where, even though he was a year older than me, I knew much about him. Cassius had been notorious, and was even expelled for a term. I was sure it was going to be a long time before we spoke.
We were situated far from the Captain’s Table, at the opposite end of the dining room. “We seem to be at the Cat’s Table,” a woman called Miss Lasqueti said. “We’re in the least privileged place.” But what was good about our table was that it seemed to include several interesting adults. We had a botanist, and a tailor who owned a shop up in Kandy. Most exciting, we had a pianist who cheerfully claimed “to have hit the skids.”
This was Mr. Mazappa. In the evening, he played with the ship’s orchestra, and during the afternoons he gave piano lessons. As a result, he had got a discount on his passage. After that first meal, he entertained Ramadhin and Cassius and me with tales of his life. It was in Mr. Mazappa’s company, as he regaled us with confusing and often obscene lyrics from songs he knew, that we three came to accept one another. For we were shy and awkward. Not one of us made even a gesture of greeting to the other two until Mr. Mazappa advised us to keep our eyes and ears open, because this voyage would be a great education. Thanks to him, we discovered that we could be curious together.
I found out unexpectedly that a distant cousin of mine, Emily de Saram, was on the boat. Sadly, she had not been assigned to the Cat’s Table. Because I had no brothers or sisters, my closest relatives were adults, an assortment of unmarried uncles and slow-moving aunts who were bound together by gossip and status. For many years, Emily, who was older than me and lived almost next door, was my link to their grownup world. I’d tell her of my adventures and listen to what she thought. She was honest about what she liked and did not like, and I modelled myself on her judgments.
Our childhoods were similar in that our parents were either missing or unreliable. When my parents abandoned their marriage, it was never really explained to me, but it was also not hidden. If anything, their life together was presented as a misstep, not a car crash. So how much the curse of my parents’ divorce fell upon me I am not sure. I do not recall the weight of it. A boy goes out the door in the morning and is busy in the evolving map of his world. Emily’s home life was, I suspect, worse than mine—her father’s business dealings were never assured, and the family lived constantly under the threat of his temper. From the scarce amount she told me, I knew he was a punisher. Even visiting adults never felt safe around him. It was only children, in the house briefly for a birthday party, who enjoyed the unpredictability of his behavior. He’d swing by to tell us something funny and then push us into the swimming pool. Emily was nervous around him, even when he grabbed her in a loving hug and then made her dance with him, her bare feet balanced on his shoes.
Much of the time, he was away at his job, or he simply disappeared. There was no secure template that Emily could rely on, so I suppose she invented herself. She had a free spirit that I loved, even though she took too many risks. She taught me to dance, to hold her waist while her upraised arms swayed, and to leap onto and over the sofa so that it tilted and fell backward with our weight. In the end, Emily’s grandmother paid for her to go to a boarding school in southern 496e646961, and even when she returned for summer holidays I did not see that much of her, for she’d got a job with Ceylon Telephone.
By the time Emily came on board the Oronsay, I had not seen her for two years. It was a shock to catch sight of her leaner, more distinct face, and to be conscious of a grace that I had not noticed before. She was now seventeen years old, and school had, I thought, knocked some of the wildness out of her, though there was still a slight drawl when she spoke that I liked. The fact that she’d grab my shoulder as I was running past her on the promenade deck and make me talk with her gave me some cachet with my two new friends. But most of the time she made it clear that she did not wish to be followed around. She had her own plans for the voyage, a final few weeks of freedom before she arrived in [REDACTED] to complete her schooling.

Larry Daniels was the botanist who ate with us at the Cat’s Table. A compact, well-muscled man. He always wore a tie, always had his sleeves rolled up. Born to a burgher family in Kandy, he had spent much of his youth studying forest and plant cultures in Sumatra and Borneo. At first, the only thing we knew about him was that he had an overwhelming crush on Emily, who would barely give him the time of day. Because of this lack of interest, he went out of his way to befriend me. I suppose he had seen me laughing with Emily and her friends by the pool, which was where she could usually be found.
At dinner, I was unprotected from Mr. Daniels’s queries about Emily, for my assigned seat was next to his, and I had to talk about her and nothing else. The one piece of information I could honestly give him was that she liked Player’s Navy Cut cigarettes. She had been smoking the brand for at least four years. The rest of her likes and dislikes I invented.
“She likes the ice creams at Elephant House,” I said. “And she often wishes to go to the theatre. To be an actress.” Daniels grasped at that false straw.
“There’s a theatrical company on the ship. Perhaps I could introduce her.”
I nodded, as if recommending it, and the next day I saw him speaking to three members of the Jankla Troupe, entertainers on their way to perform their brand of street theatre and acrobatics in Europe, who also gave performances now and then for the passengers on our journey. He introduced himself to say that he had a good friend, a very talented young lady who loved the theatre, and perhaps she could watch them rehearse if he brought her along?
The Jankla Troupe would juggle, sometimes beginning casually at the end of afternoon tea, with their plates and cups, but most of the time they performed formally, in full costume and excessive makeup. Best of all, they would call passengers up onto the makeshift stage in order to disclose private things about them that were sometimes embarrassing. Usually, it was about the location of a lost wallet or a ring or the fact that the passenger was going to Europe to be with his sister, who was ill. All this was revealed at the end of a performance by the Hyderabad Mind, whose face had streaks of purple and whose eyes, rimmed with white paint, looked as if they belonged to a giant. [REDACTED], he could terrify us, strolling into the depths of the crowd to reveal the number of children a person had, or where his wife was born.
Late one afternoon, wandering alone on C Deck, I saw the Hyderabad Mind crouching under a lifeboat, putting on his makeup before a performance. He was holding a small mirror in one hand while the other quickly gashed on stripes of purple paint. He had a slight body, and his painted head appeared too big for his delicate frame. He peered into the mirror, improving himself, unaware of me as he worked in the half-shadow of the lifeboat which hung from the davit. When he stood and stepped into sunlight the colors burst forward, the ghoulish eyes now full of sulfur and perception as he glanced briefly at me, then walked past, as if I were nothing. I had witnessed for the first time what took place behind the thin curtain of art, and it gave me some protection the next time I saw him onstage, decked out in full costume. I felt that I could almost see, or, at least, was now aware of, the skeleton within.
The friendship between the quiet Ramadhin and the exuberant Cassius and myself grew fast, although we kept a great deal from one another. At least I did. What I held in my right hand was never revealed to the left. I had already been trained into cautiousness. In the boarding schools we’d gone to, a fear of punishment had created a skill in lying, and I had learned to withhold small pertinent truths. Punishment, it turns out, never did humble some of us into complete honesty.
The Oronsay was a chance for us to escape all order. And I reinvented myself in this seemingly imaginary world, with its adult passengers, who, during the evening celebrations, staggered around in giant animal heads, dancing with women whose skirts were barely there, as the ship’s orchestra, including Mr. Mazappa, played on the bandstand in plum-colored uniforms.
What was I in those days? I recall no outside imprint, and therefore no perception of myself. If I had to invent a photograph of myself from childhood, it would be of a barefoot boy in shorts and a cotton shirt running along the mildewed wall that separated our house and garden in Boralesgamuwa from the traffic on the High Level Road, or looking away from the house toward the dusty street.
I found it difficult to be alone on the ship. Most of my day was spent with Ramadhin and Cassius, or sometimes Mr. Mazappa or others from the Cat’s Table. To be by myself, I would retreat to my hot cabin in the late afternoon and lie back on my bunk to study the ceiling a foot or two above me, and think backward. Sometimes I turned on the yellow light above my bed and looked at the map of the world I had traced from a book. I had forgotten to put names on it. All I knew was that we were going west and north across it, away from Colombo.
Occasionally, just before dark, I’d find myself on C Deck when there was no one there. I’d walk to the railing, which was the height of my chest, and watch the sea rush alongside the ship. At times, it appeared to rise almost to my level, as if wishing to pluck me away. I did not move, even with a havoc of fear and aloneness in me. It was the same emotion I’d felt when lost in the narrow streets of the Pettah market, or while adjusting to new rules at boarding school. But, no matter how scared I was, I held still, half wanting to pull myself back from the sea, half desiring to leap toward it.
Sleep is a prison for a boy who has friends to meet. We were impatient with the night, up before sunrise surrounded the ship. Lying in my bunk, I would hear Ramadhin’s gentle knock on the door, in code: two taps, a long pause, another tap. A pointless code, really—who else could it have been at that hour? If I did not climb down and open the door, I would hear his theatrical cough. And if I still did not respond, I would hear him whisper, “Mynah,” which had become my nickname. Ramadhin and I would meet Cassius by the stairs, and soon we were strolling barefoot on the first-class deck. First class was an unguarded palace at six in the morning, before the night lights on the deck blinked and turned off. We removed our shirts and dived like needles into the gold-painted first-class pool with barely a splash. Silence was essential as we swam in the newly forming half-light.
Our nighttime explorations were not as successful. We were never quite sure what we were witnessing, and we would fall asleep later with our minds still half grasping the rigging of adult possibility. On our first “night watch,” we hid in the shadows of the promenade deck, then at random followed a man, just to see where he was going. I recognized him as the Hyderabad Mind, his face unpainted now. Somewhat surprisingly, he led us to Emily, who was leaning against a railing and wearing a white dress that seemed to glow as he came closer. The Hyderabad Mind half hid her from us, and Emily held his fingers cupped within her hands. We could not tell if they were talking or not.
We stepped back, farther into the darkness, and waited. I saw the man move the strap of Emily’s dress and bring his face down to her shoulder. Her head was back, looking up at the stars, if there were stars.
Should our journey to [REDACTED] have been noted for any reason in the newspapers of the time, it was because of the presence on the Oronsay of the philanthropist Sir Hector de Silva. He was travelling with a retinue that included two doctors, one Ayurvedic, a lawyer, and his wife and daughter, most of whom were stationed in the upper echelons of the ocean liner and were seldom seen by us. No one in his party had accepted the invitation to eat at the Captain’s Table. It was assumed that they were above even that. Although the real reason was that Sir Hector, who had ground out his fortune in gems, rubber, and plots of land, was now suffering from a possibly fatal illness and was travelling to Europe to find a doctor who would save him. Not one English specialist had been willing to travel to Colombo to deal with his illness, in spite of being offered considerable remunerations.
At first we did not concern ourselves with Sir Hector’s illness. His presence on board was seldom mentioned by those at the Cat’s Table. He was famous because of his great wealth, and that held no interest for us. But what did make us curious was our discovery of the background to this fateful journey. It had happened this way. One morning, Hector de Silva had been breakfasting on his balcony with friends. They were joking among themselves in the way that those whose lives are safe and comfortable do, when a Battaramulle, or holy priest, walked past the house. Seeing the monk, Sir Hector offered up a pun, saying, “Ah, there goes a Muttaraballa.” Muttara means “urinating,” and balla means “dog.” It was a quick-witted but inappropriate remark, especially when addressed to a priest. Overhearing the insult, the monk paused, pointed to Sir Hector, and said, “I’ll send you a Muttaraballa.” After which the monk, reputedly a practitioner of witchcraft, went straight to the temple, where he chanted several mantras, thereby sealing the fate of Sir Hector de Silva.
The next month, Sir Hector was coming down the stairs of his house, his pet terrier at the foot of the steps waiting to greet him. A usual occurrence. But as Sir Hector bent down to pet the dog, the normally affectionate animal leaped for his neck. Sir Hector pulled the dog off him, at which point the animal bit his right hand. 

Two servants eventually got hold of the creature and put it in a kennel. Apparently, the terrier had been behaving strangely that morning, racing around the kitchen under the feet of the servants, and had been chased out of the house with a broom, before slipping back, calm and muted, at the last minute, to await its master at the foot of the stairs. Twenty-four hours later, the dog died, having shown symptoms of rabies. But by then the “Muttaraballa” had already delivered its message.
One by one they came. Every respected doctor who serviced Colombo 7 was brought in for consultation. In the end, Sir Hector decided to take the ship to [REDACTED]. Acquiring wealth, he had also acquired a complete faith in the advancements of Europe, whereas a cure in Colombo seemed to rely on village magic, astrology, and botanical charts in spidery handwriting. He had grown up knowing some local cures, such as urinating on a foot to alleviate the pain of sea-pencil stings. Now he was told that for a mad dog’s bite the seeds of the Black Ummattaka or thorn apple should be soaked in cow piss, ground into a paste, and taken internally. Then, twenty-four hours later, he should take a cold bath and drink buttermilk. The provinces were full of these cures. Four out of ten of them worked. That wasn’t good enough.
These surreal revelations about the man with a curse on his head thrilled Ramadhin, Cassius, and me. We gathered every fragment of Sir Hector’s story and remained hungry for more. We cast our minds back to the night of embarkation in Colombo Harbor and tried to recall, or to imagine, at least, a stretcher, and the body of the millionaire being carried at a slight tilt up the gangplank. Whether we had seen this or not, the scene was now indelible in our minds. For the first time in our lives, we were interested in the fate of the upper classes; and gradually it became clear to us that Mr. Mazappa and his musical legends, and Mr. Daniels with his plants, who had until then been like gods to us, were only minor characters, there to witness how those with real power progressed or failed in the world.
Our ship continued to move northwest, crossing into higher latitudes, and the passengers could feel the nights becoming cooler. One afternoon the chief engineer ordered that the engines be slowed while the emergency electrical systems were tested, and for a while it seemed as if we had stalled in what was now the Arabian Sea. An eastbound steamer passed us at dusk, all of its lights on, and it was a fantasy among the three of us to row over to it and return to Colombo.
59656d656e was the first port of call, and during the day prior to our arrival there was a flurry of letter writing. It was a tradition to have one’s mail stamped in 59656d656e, where it could be sent back to Ceylon or onward to [REDACTED]. All of us were longing for the sight of land and, as morning broke, we lined up along the bow to watch the ancient city approach, miragelike, out of the arc of dusty hills. 59656d656e had cisterns built out of volcanic rock, a falcon market, an oasis quarter, an aquarium, a section of town given over to sailmakers, and stores that contained merchandise from every corner of the globe. It would be our last footstep in the [REDACTED].
The Oronsay cut its engines. We were docked not on the quay but in the outer harbor, at Steamer Point. If passengers wished to go ashore, they could be ferried into the city by barges that were already waiting beside our vessel. It was nine in the morning and, without the sea breezes that we had grown accustomed to, the air was heavy and hot.
That morning, the Captain had announced the rules about entering the city. Passengers were allowed just six hours of shore leave. Children could go only if accompanied by “a responsible male adult.” And women were forbidden to go at all. There was the expected outrage at this, especially from Emily and her group of friends by the pool, who wished to disembark and take on the town’s citizens with their beauty. We ourselves were mostly concerned with finding an irresponsible male, who could be easily distracted, to chaperone us.
Mr. Daniels, we heard, was eager to visit the old oasis, where, he said, every blade of grass was swollen with water and as thick as your finger. We offered to help him transport any plants he discovered back to the ship, and he agreed. We went with him down the rope ladders into the barge as quickly as we could.
Onshore, we were surrounded instantly by a new language. While Mr. Daniels was busy negotiating a fee with a taxi to transport us to where the great palms were, we slipped away. A carpet salesman gestured to us, offered us tea, and we sat with him for a while, laughing whenever he laughed, nodding when he nodded. There was a small dog that he indicated he wished to give us, but we moved on.
We began to argue about what to see. For some reason, Ramadhin wanted to visit the aquarium. He was sullen about having to see the markets first. In any case, we entered the narrow shops that sold seeds and needles, coffins, maps, and pamphlets. Out on the street, you could have the shape of your head read, your teeth pulled. A barber cut Cassius’s hair and poked a narrow, vicious pair of scissors quickly into his nose to clear away the possibility of hair in the nostrils of a twelve-year-old. I was used to the lush chaos of Colombo’s Pettah market, the throat-catching smell of sarong cloth being unfolded and cut, and mangosteens, and rain-soaked paperbacks in a bookstall. Here was a sterner world, with fewer luxuries. There was no overripe fruit in the gutters. There were, in fact, no gutters. It was a dusty landscape, as if water had not been invented. Although 59656d656e was a harbor city, the air held hardly a particle of dampness. The only liquid was the cup of dark tea offered to us by the carpet-maker, along with a delicious almond sweet.
The aquarium was a deserted concrete building beside the sea. Ramadhin led the way through a maze of mostly subterranean tanks that housed about a dozen garden eels from the Red Sea and a few colorless fish that swam in a foot of salt water. Cassius and I climbed to another level, where there were taxidermied species of marine life, lying in dust, alongside whatever technical equipment was being stored—a hose, a small generator, a hand pump, a dustpan and brush. We gave the whole place five minutes, then revisited the stores we had already been in, this time to say goodbye. The barber still had no other customers and he gave me a head massage, pouring unknown oils into my hair, before attacking my scalp.
We reached the wharf before curfew. Out of belated courtesy, we decided to wait for Mr. Daniels on the dock, Ramadhin wrapped up in a djellabah, and Cassius and I hugging ourselves because of the brisk air coming in from the ocean. We realized that we had seen only a small sliver of the city. We had missed the reconstructed cisterns and wherever it was that Cain and Abel were buried. Still, it had been a day of intricate listening, of careful watching, all our conversations made up of gestures.
Finally, we saw Mr. Daniels striding along the wharf. He was carrying a cumbersome plant in his arms and was accompanied by two slender men in white suits, each holding a miniature palm. He greeted us cheerfully—obviously he had not been too concerned about our disappearance. The men helping him were silent, and as one of them passed me his small tree he wiped the sweat from his face and winked and smiled, and I saw that it was Emily in a man’s clothes. I took the palm and carried it onto the barge for the ten-minute ride to the ship.
Once back on board, the three of us made our way down to Ramadhin’s cabin, where he unfolded his djellabah to reveal the carpet salesman’s dog hidden inside.
We came on deck an hour later. It was already dark, and the lights on the Oronsay were brighter than those on land. The ship still had not moved. In the dining room, there were loud conversations about the day’s adventures. Only Ramadhin and Cassius and I kept silent. So excited were we by our smuggling of the dog onto the boat, we knew that if we spoke even one syllable we’d slide uncontrollably into the whole story. We had spent the last chaotic hour trying to bathe the animal in Ramadhin’s narrow shower stall, avoiding the swipe of his claws. We had dried the dog in Ramadhin’s bedsheet and left him in the cabin while we came up to eat.
While listening to the stories of the others at the Cat’s Table, Emily came by and bent down to ask me if I had had a good day. I asked her politely what she had done while we went ashore, and she said that she had “carried things,” and went off laughing. There was a shudder during dessert as the boat’s engines started up, and we all went to the railings to watch our departure, our castle slipping slowly away from the thin horizon of lights, back into the great darkness.
 
We guarded the dog that night. He was fearful of any sudden movement, until Ramadhin managed to take him into his bunk and fall asleep with his arms around him. When the three of us woke the next morning, we had already entered the Red Sea, and it was during this passage, on our first day steaming north, that something astonishing happened.
It had always been difficult to penetrate the barrier that separated us from the first-class level, which was guarded by two polite but determined stewards. But even they could not stop Ramadhin’s dog. He had leaped out of Cassius’s arms and bolted from the cabin. We ran up and down the empty hallways looking for him. But within moments the little fellow must have emerged into the sunlight of B Deck and run beside the railings, racing into the lower ballroom, up its gilded staircase, and past the two stewards. They managed to get their hands on him but could not hold on. He had eaten none of the food we had offered him, which we’d smuggled out of the dining room in our trouser pockets, so perhaps he was looking for something to eat.
No one was able to corner him. Passengers caught sight of him for just a blurred moment. He did not seem at all interested in humans. Well-dressed women crouched down, calling out high-pitched greetings, but he charged past them without a pause and into the cherrywood cave of the library, disappearing somewhere beyond that. Who could know what he was after? Or what he was feeling, in that no doubt pounding heart? He was just a hungry dog, or a scared one, on this claustrophobic ship, whose alleyways turned into cul-de-sacs as he ran farther and farther from daylight. Eventually, the creature made his way along a mahogany-panelled and carpeted hallway, where he slipped through a half-opened door into a master suite, just as someone left, carrying a tray. The dog climbed up onto an oversized bed, where the prone Sir Hector de Silva lay, and bit down into his throat.
All night the Oronsay was within the protected waters of the Red Sea. At daybreak, we passed the small islands off Jizan, and we could see in the distance the hazy presence of the oasis town of Abha, sunlight glinting off a piece of glass or a white wall. Then the city dissolved under the sun and was gone from our sight.
It was at this hour, shortly after daybreak, that the news of Sir Hector’s death raced through the ship, quickly followed by whispers that there would have to be a burial at sea. It turned out, however, that a funeral could not take place in coastal waters, so the body would have to wait for the open spaces of the Mediterranean. Next came the more startling news of how he had died, followed by the story that we had already heard, about the charm put on him by the priest.
Ramadhin reasoned that fate had killed him, not us, by bringing the dog on board. And, as the little creature was never seen again, we came to believe that the smuggled dog had been a phantom.
During lunch, most of the questions had to do with how a dog had boarded the Oronsay. And where was it now? Emily came over to our table and demanded to know if we had brought the dog onto the ship, and we responded with an attempted look of horror, which made her laugh. The only person who showed no interest in the opinions around him was Mr. Mazappa, who sat mulling over his oxtail soup. His musical fingers were, for once, motionless on the tablecloth.
I woke the next morning without the usual desire to meet with my friends. I heard Ramadhin’s familiar knock, but I did not answer. Instead, I took my time dressing, then went up to the deck alone. On the other side of the ship, passengers with binoculars were attempting to catch a glimpse of the Nile, somewhere deep inland. They were all adults, no one I knew, and I felt without a connection to anything. I went to Emily’s cabin.
I was fondest of Emily when we were not with other people. In those moments, I always felt that I learned the most from her. I knocked a couple of times before she opened the door, wrapped in a dressing gown.
“Can I come in?”
“Yes.”
Emily stalked back and slipped under the sheets, discarding her robe, it seemed, in the same movement.
“We’re still in the Red Sea.”
“I know.”
“We went past Jedda. I saw it.”
I stayed with her all morning. I told her about the dog, and how we had brought him on board. I was lying beside her on the bed, holding one of her unlit cigarettes, pretending to smoke, when she reached over and turned my head toward her.
“Don’t,” she said. “I mean, don’t tell anyone else about this—what you just told me.”
“We think it might have been a ghost,” I replied. “The charm’s ghost.”
“I don’t care. You must not mention it again. Promise me.”
I said that I wouldn’t.
She touched the top of my head in a gesture that said, Let’s forget about it. Don’t worry.
But I didn’t turn away and kept watching her.
“What?” She raised her eyebrow.
“I don’t know, I feel strange. Being here. What will happen when I go to [REDACTED]. Will you be with me?”
“You know I won’t.”
“But I don’t know anyone there.”
“Your mother?”
“I don’t know her like I know you.”
“Yes, you do.”
She leaned over and kissed me. “Now, make me some coffee. There’s the cup. You can use hot water from the tap.” I got up and looked around.
“There’s no coffee here.”
“Then order some.”
When the steward arrived, I met him at the door and, when he had left, brought the tray over for her. She half sat up, then remembered her robe and reached for it. But what I saw hit me in the heart.
There was a tremor within me, a mixture of thrill and vertigo. Suddenly, there was a wide gulf between Emily’s existence and mine, and I would never be able to cross it. It was as if part of the desert in the distance had reached into the ship and touched me. But where had it come from? And was it a pleasure or a sadness, this life inside me? I felt as if I were lacking something essential, like water. I put the tray down and climbed back onto Emily’s bed. I felt in that moment that I had been alone for years. I had existed too cautiously with my family, as if there had always been shards of glass around us. And now I was going to [REDACTED], where my mother had been living for three or four years. She had already become a stranger.
That morning, in Emily’s cabin, shuttered away from the dazzle of the Red Sea and the desert, I knelt on her bed and shook. She leaned forward and held me, so soft a gesture that I felt barely touched, an envelope of loose air between us. My hot tears rubbed off on her cool upper arm. The small props of necessary defense with which I’d surrounded myself, and which contained and protected me, marking the outline of me, were no longer there.
“What is it?”
“I don’t know.”
Perhaps we talked then. I don’t remember. My breathing eventually calmed to the pace of hers. I must have fallen asleep for a moment and woke when she reached over her shoulder in a backstroke gesture for the cup of coffee. Soon I heard her quick swallows, my ear against her neck. Her other hand was still gripping mine, convincing me of a security that probably did not exist.
After I left Emily’s room—and there was to be no repeat of this kind of intimacy—I knew that I would always be linked to her, as if by some underground river or a seam of coal or silver. I had never known the grip of another’s hand, or the smell of a body that had just emerged from sleep. I had never wept beside someone who also excited me in a way that I could not fathom.
It was probably a casual, if genuine, kindness that Emily gave me—and saying that takes nothing away from her gesture. “You should go now,” she said finally, and rose from the bed and walked to the bathroom, shutting the door behind her.
A new rumor percolated that the two-day-old corpse of Hector de Silva would soon be dispatched into the sea. The Captain wished to wait until we reached the Mediterranean, but the all-powerful de Silva widow was now insisting on a quick, private burial. And so, within the space of an hour, everyone had discovered the location and the time of the final ceremony. Stewards roped off the section of the stern where the service would take place, but gawkers soon assembled behind the rope and crowded the metal stairways, and some looked down from the higher decks. A few, less impressed souls regarded the proceedings through the windows of the smoking room. As a result, the body—the first sighting of Hector de Silva for most of us—had to be carried along a very narrow aisle, grudgingly opened by the crowd. It was followed by his widow, his daughter, his doctors (one of them dressed in full village regalia), and the Captain.
I had never been to a funeral, let alone one for which I was partially responsible. I saw Emily a few yards away, and she gave me a cautious look and a slight shake of her head. Everyone from the Cat’s Table was there.
We gazed down at the small figures of the entourage surrounding a trestle table, which held a bust of Hector de Silva and some flowers. We were barely able to hear the last rites. The voice of the priest faltered and faded in the shuddering winds that were drifting over the water. When the family approached the body wrapped in its white shroud, we all leaned forward to witness whatever secret was being passed to the dead. Then Hector de Silva slid from the ship and disappeared into the sea. 

