
DENIERS
By Sam Lipsyte
“Trauma this, atrocity that, people ought to keep their traps shut,” Mandy’s father said. American traps tended to hang open. Pure crap poured out. What he and the others had gone through shouldn’t have a name, he told her friend Tovah, all those years later in the nursing home. People gave names to things so they could tell stories about them, goddam fairy tales about children who got out alive.
Mandy’s father, Jacob, had never said anything like this to Mandy, not in any of his tongues. He’d said other things, or nothing at all. He had worked for thirty-nine years as a printer in [REDACTED]. The founders of the company had invented the Yellow Pages.
“Think about that,” he’d often said.
Mandy did think about it, the thick directory that used to boost her up on her stool at the kitchen counter.
She’d spent her childhood mornings at that counter, culling raisins from her cereal, surveying the remains of her father’s dawn meal, his toast crusts, the sugared dregs in his coffee mug. Sometimes she’d wondered if he would come home from work that day, but it was a game, because he always came home. He’d eat his dinner and take to his reclining—or, really, collapsing—chair, listen to his belly gurgle, read popular histories of the American West. Maybe he’d watch a rerun of “Hogan’s Heroes,” the only show he could abide.
His gastric arias mostly stood in for conversation, but some evenings he managed a few words, such as the night he spotted Mandy’s library book on the credenza. This teen novel told the story of a suburban boy who befriends an elderly neighbor, a wanted Nazi. Mandy watched her father study the book from across the room. The way he handled it made her think he was scornful of its binding or paper stock, but then he read the dust flap, shuddered. He whispered in his original language, the one he rarely used, so glottal, abyssal.
“Daddy,” she called from the sofa, her leotard still damp from dance. She liked the way the purple fabric encased her, the sporty stink.
“Daddy,” she said.
He spat out a word that sounded like “shame,” but more shameful.
That night, her mother, who’d grown up in the next town over, who’d dreamed of exotic travel only to live the inverted version—the older European man, handsomely gaunt, haunted, roaring up on his motorcycle at a county fair—commanded Mandy to explore new reading topics. The great explorers, perhaps. The not-so-great explorers.
“He never talks about it,” Mandy said.
“There might be no words, honey.”
“Does he talk to you?”
“We communicate,” her mother said.
“Was he like this when you met him?”
“Yes. But it was different. He wanted to kiss me all the time.”
Mandy decided she wouldn’t read anything else about the era of her father’s agony. If she wasn’t good enough to hear his story, so be it. Other, more generous catastrophes would arrive.
Like, for instance, the spring day a dashing fellow in a pink blazer knocked on their door. The man worked for Shell Oil, which wanted to build a new gas station down the block. Mandy, soon to turn eleven and pained by any news unrelated to her birthday party, had heard murmurings. The plans called for a monstrous sign, the glowing sort more suitable for the highway, and the neighborhood had geared up for a fight. The working stiffs and the old Dutch families had joined with the lawyers and doctors to battle a common nemesis whose garish sign would savage property values.
Lawrence, with his sailing tan and smart, maybe more off-salmon blazer, had been sent to talk to the townspeople—with honesty and understanding, he told Mandy’s mother—about their misguided fears and the benefits of both the gas station and the sign, which, incidentally, would spin with incandescent beauty against the north-Jersey night.
Alone, Mandy’s mother let him in, and within an hour agreed to assist him in his campaign. Within a week they were tearing off each other’s polyfibres at Arlen’s Adult Motel near the George Washington Bridge. Mandy heard the details years later from her Aunt Linda, who added odd touches, such as Mandy’s growing a tiny potbelly from too much junk food, since the assignations left her mother no time to cook. Mandy didn’t remember that. She’d once seen Lawrence hunched over some papers in their kitchen—he threw her a funny, rueful look—but she did not recall a season of Whoppers and strawberry shakes. Still, for all she knew, her torments with the mirrors and malnourished beauties of fashion magazines and even her esophageal tract, all of which she had come to call, after years of therapy and therapeutic coffee dates, her “body shit,” might as well have been spawned from the slime of some long-buried, corn-syruped confusion.
The Shell-sign resistance movement grew strong and raucous. When word leaked of Mandy’s mother’s collaborationist stance, somebody egged their stucco garage. Though Lawrence’s door-to-door sorties against tree-hugger pieties seemed lonely and courageous to Mandy’s mother, what took place was a legal contest between a tiny township and a transnational corporation. After bitter and pointless debate, the council zoned the lot for the gas station and the galaxy above the lot for the sign.
Mandy’s mother chilled champagne in the motel ice bucket, but Lawrence never arrived for the victory toast. Not even Linda knew if Mandy’s mother drank the bubbly or poured it over the terrace, but everybody remembered how she sobbed herself home and took to her bed.
She clutched the motel’s “Do Not Disturb” card for days.
Even Jacob seemed touched by his wife’s distress. Who could refute the awfulness of what this bastard had done to the woman who once, long ago, after the Germans had murdered his mother and sister, had come reasonably close to being the only woman he could ever love? He tended to his wife with the wary compassion of a plague nurse.
One night, Mandy woke near dawn to see her father yanking open her bureau drawers. He stuffed a duffelbag with her tank tops and jeans. She could count the times he had crossed the threshold of her room, but now he lifted her in his arms as he once had their sick spaniel and slid her into his sedan. She fell asleep again, cozy against the cool vinyl, and woke once more in Linda’s Upper West Side apartment. Linda put a teacup to Mandy’s lips. Her mother, they told her, was dead. Running motor. Sealed garage. Sweet suburban sleep. She’d left a note, Mandy found out, years later, on a Shell petition in the kitchen. “Oh, shit,” it read. Beneath her scrawl, boldfaced words exhorted “Give American Business a Chance!”
So. Her father was a Survivor. Her mother had not survived. And Mandy? Nineteen years later, Mandy semi-survived, had three months clean, some fluorescent key-ring tags to prove it. Her ex-boyfriend Greg had tags, too, wore them snaked together off his belt. Mandy saw him at meetings, but she worried that he wasn’t letting the program work on him, was maybe just white-knuckling it, a funny thing to say about a black man. Greg had almost finished college before the pipe got him. He possessed such a wry and gentle soul, except for the times he railed at her for being an evil dwarf witch who meant to stew his heart in bat broth (he’d majored in world folklore), and she’d always adored those horn-rimmed glasses that made him look like the professor he could still become if he let go of his rage. But if he had a discipline at the moment, an area of scholarly expertise, it was deep knowledge of how to steal or to lick diseased penises for the teensiest rocks. It wasn’t as if Mandy had been any better months back. But now she was, and Greg, who often shared about what he called his terror runs, appeared to be planning one, the way some people contemplate a Berkshires getaway.
Otherwise, things were on the uptick. Linda, in such pain these last few years, had gone to a better place. If an afterlife existed, Mandy figured that for Linda it would be more of the same—cappuccinos, Chinese, films at Lincoln Center. You could do that stuff dead. Now the studio apartment on a barren stretch of Upper Broadway would be Mandy’s. She deserved it—she had lived there as Linda’s caretaker, never missed a medication or a chemo trip, always laundered the sheets, no matter how high she was off Linda’s morphine.
Jacob spent his days in stoic near-paralysis in a nursing home close to their old house, since sold to a happy (though you never knew) Sri Lankan family. Clean and sober, Mandy would be able to visit him regularly now. Also, Bill Clinton had been reëlected, which was what Mandy had wanted, and, perhaps most exciting, people were really responding to cardio ballet, the class she taught at the Jewish Community Center.
Maybe once she’d dreamed of jazz-dance stardom, roses heaped on her Capezios, but keeping it real and teaching cardio ballet constituted triumphs enough. True, her sponsor, Adelaide, was in fact a star, a regular on the afternoon soaps, but that was just normal [REDACTED] recovery weirdness.
The main thing for Mandy was to focus on her goals and keep her eyes peeled for Greg. She could imagine the ease of a slip, a search for that early bliss when all they did was snuggle and drink brandy and smoke crack and have their epic conversations about—about what, the vicissitudes? Was that the word Greg favored? Then they’d fuck and grapple until dawn, when the cooing of pigeons tilted them into jittery sleep.
But of course it went bad. You had to play the whole tape, Adelaide told Mandy from her makeup chair. Mandy’s disease was just waiting for her to pick up again. Her disease was tougher than ever, did pushups, Pilates. (The girl with the foundation paint nodded.)
“Remember those last, ugly moments,” Adelaide said. “That’s the part of the tape you’ve got to watch, Mand.”
So she remembered how their pigeon sleep scooped something out of them, shattered their circadian clocks, which Mandy thought might also be their moral compasses. They fought, they hit—over drugs, money, presumed betrayals. Most of the presumptions proved correct. Mandy confessed to mutual fondling with a banker from the rooms, a guy who liked to repeat the same story: how he got tired of always having to score and bought an entire half kilo for his apartment, but his cat found the package, clawed it to shreds—dead calico, toxic carpet, some unborn child’s college education up in pharmaceutical-grade clouds.
“That pussy saved your life!” a retired East Coast Crip in a wheelchair shouted.
Uncle Drive-By, Greg called him.
While Mandy confessed her infidelity to Greg she caught him eying the high-end Austrian cleaver on the magnetic kitchen strip. A good terror run begins at home. But they did a brave thing. They quit crack together, for the weekend.
Then came the day she entered the apartment and through clots of rock smoke saw Greg, on his knees, his face in the crotch of an obese girl with a platinum chignon. The treasurer of Mandy’s Saturday-morning Clean Slate Meditations meeting jerked off in the girl’s ear. Something about seeing the afghan that Linda had wrapped herself in during her last, ravaged days shifting under the girl’s buttocks shook Mandy. Then Greg looked over, slurry-eyed, asked Mandy to join the group.
Yes, the vicissitudes.
Mandy summoned her inner banshee, threw a lamp and some decent flatware. The others fled, and Greg packed the measly possessions he’d amassed in his turd of a life—some rusted throwing stars, a box of stale marzipan, his crack pipe, his cherished coverless paperback edition of Knut Hamsun’s “Hunger”—and scrammed. Now she saw him at meetings, and tried not to retch at his con-job shares, or recall the sweetness of their precious predawn hours, when addiction itself seemed as exquisite and harmless as a baby giraffe.
Today, after she’d led the ladies of cardio ballet through a true grueller, Mandy leaned on the mirrored wall of the dance studio, sipped her bottled water, thought about her father in his living rigor mortis. If they’d had them when he was younger, he might have thrived in some sort of Holocaust support group, with sponsors, chips, key tags, coffee. Just once, history could have given her father a sloppy hug.
“Keep coming back,” history could have said, just as they did in the rooms.
Mandy rolled her shoulders, sank into that honeyed post-class ache. A runnel of sweat curled down her calf. The day drained out of her and endorphins filled her floodplains. Some people in recovery couldn’t manufacture these chemicals anymore. But then her body tightened again. She sensed movement, a figure, a man maybe, tall, through the corridor window. The figure disappeared, and a new smaller person clopped toward her in chunky heels.
“You seem so peaceful, I hate to disturb you.”
Tovah Gold looked twelve but she had a degree in creative writing and a published poetry chapbook. She’d once presented a copy to Mandy, but said she should not feel obligated to read it. Mandy sometimes wondered if Tovah thought she was dumb. The chapbook was called “For the Student Union Dead,” and Mandy thought the poems in it were dumb, the way smart people were often dumb.
Tovah taught a memoir class at the J.C.C. Mostly grandmothers spilling family matzoh-ball secrets, she’d said, or retired men composing disturbingly dry accounts of affairs with their best friends’ wives. “Mostly, I just help them with their segues,” Tovah said.
“Hi,” Mandy said now. “How’s it going?”
“Slowly, painfully. No immortal lines this week, and my boyfriend, or ex-boyfriend, I should say, has decided that our poetics are incompatible.”
“Right there myself,” Mandy said. “I kicked Greg out. He’s no good for me.”
Tovah knew the Ballad of Mandy and Greg, took anthropological delight.
“What is it you all say?” she said. “ ‘Show up until you grow up’?”
“Greg won’t grow up. He can go to hell.”
“But don’t you think he needs some—”
“Girlfriend, please,” Mandy said, did that dismissive wave all the sisters did in meetings, and lately on TV, but which Mandy couldn’t master. 
“What’s that other one?” Tovah said. “ ‘You’re only as sick as your secrets’? Is that it? I love that one. It doesn’t know it, but it’s poetry.”
“It knows it,” Mandy said.
Tovah was a good friend, maybe her only one in the so-called civilian world, but that didn’t mean Mandy couldn’t hate her sometimes, the gooey earnestness which, along with the poetess shtick, seemed both pure and calculated, a saintly condescension. Tovah’s innocence was a type of abuse. But Mandy could trust her, and she understood that Tovah’s fondness was genuine. That made it better and worse.
“Listen, Mandy. I need to tell you something. I don’t want you to feel strange about it. Because in my world, the artist’s world, it’s a common thing. But maybe not for normal people.”
“I’m normal?”
“You’re wonderful,” Tovah said.
“Thanks,” Mandy said, already mourning the rousing solitude of a few minutes ago. Bitch had snatched her natural rush.
“Anyway,” Tovah said, “I’ve been working on a poem cycle about you.”
“A what?”
“A bunch of poems.”
“About me?”
“Yeah.”
“You don’t know anything about me.”
“I know a lot, Mandy.”
“Not really. Maybe about me and Greg.”
“Researching facts isn’t the point,” Tovah said. “It’s about my construction of you. My projection.”
“So,” Mandy said. “I don’t get it. Are you asking permission?”
“A real artist never asks permission.”
“Oh.”
“But I don’t want any static between us.”
“Am I Mandy?” Mandy asked.
“Pardon?”
“In your poem, am I Mandy? Do you name me? Do you say Mandy Gottlieb?”
“No. It’s addressed to a nameless person.”
“Then why would I care?”
Tovah seemed stunned.
“Well . . . because it’s so obviously you.”
“But you said it’s about your structure of me.”
“My construction of . . . yes, that’s right.”
“So who cares?”
“I don’t really understand your question.”
“It’s O.K., Tovah, write what your heart tells you to write.”
“You are so marvellous, Mandy. You see life so clearly and simply, and it makes so much sense to you. I can’t thank you enough.”
“It’s enough,” Mandy said.
Tovah clutched her leather satchel, clopped away.
Mandy had a shower and steam, ran her favorite purple comb through her hair.
All you could do was stay clean and fit. Cardio ballet was mostly cardio. The ballet was more like a dream of yourself, like when you picture being in love. The real thing could never live up to the dream. You didn’t want the real thing, even if it saved you from the heart rip of off-salmon blazers.
Outside the locker room a tall man in a hooded sweatshirt leaned against the wall. He looked about thirty, with wavy hair and blond stubble on his chin. Mandy made to move past him, and he cleared his throat, for comedic effect, she figured, though she could also hear phlegm swirl.
“Good class today?”
The man’s voice was thin and kind.
“Do I know you? Have you taken cardio ballet?”
“I want to,” the man said. “I want to very much.”
“There’s a sign-up sheet at the front desk.”
“I was hoping to talk to you first. Get a read on the class.”
“A read?”
“What it’s all about,” the man said.
“It’s about cardio and ballet. Sign up. We need men.”
“Would I get to be your partner?”
“Excuse me?”
“Your ballet partner. Throw you up in the air.”
“Sorry. It’s not very advanced ballet. This is just to get the blood pumping. There are other classes where you might . . . What? Why are you laughing?”
“I’m not laughing.”
“You look like you’re laughing.”
“I know. It gets me in trouble sometimes. It’s just how my face goes when I’m listening to somebody cool and beautiful talk about something she cares about.”
Mandy took some delicate steps back.
“Oh, no!” The man palmed his mouth. “I guess I just accidentally spoke my heart! I should get out of here. I’m sorry. Maybe I’ll sign up for the class.”
The man grinned—strong, white teeth! You didn’t see many of those in meetings.
At the plastic table on the patio, overlooking a tomato field, her father picked at bird crap.
“Daddy,” Mandy said. “That’s poop.”
Her father gave a lazy leer.
“How’s your mother?”
“You know.”
“Dead.”
Jacob picked at the flecks.
An attendant came over, young, with cornrows, patted her father’s arm. His printer’s arm, shrunken.
“Having a good visit, Mr. Gottlieb?” she said.
“Swell.” It sounded like “svelte.” He’d purged most of his accent nearly half a century ago, but now it had returned.
“I’m Mandy.”
“Oh, I know,” the attendant said. “I know all about you. He says wonderful things about his Mandy. I take care of him.”
“Does he ever talk about his childhood?”
“All the time. Sounds so special, upstate, fishing and all that good stuff.”
Mandy’s mother had said something about a summer camp for war orphans in the Adirondacks. Jacob had been older than the other children, some kind of counsellor.
Mandy noticed a glint in her father’s eye now, something annihilating, bitter. Mandy couldn’t understand its source. The Nazi death machine? Shell Oil? The fact that only Mandy would remember him? Did he think maybe he’d been wrong to oppose the never-forgetters, the never-againers, the never-shut-uppers? Because nobody remembered anything. They’d even forgotten fat Schultz and the wiley Hogan, who’d died a sex freak in sleazy [REDACTED]. He’s not even that old, Mandy thought. Seventy, seventy-one. But he’d always been old.
“Does he talk about the war? The camps? He never talked about it when I was a kid.”
“What camps?”
“The one where soldiers bend you over and give you bread,” her father said. “The one where you tell the guards where other men hide a rotten apple and the soldiers shoot those men.”
“Maybe you should rest,” Mandy said.
“But I have to get to the shop. Mr. Dwyer is expecting me.”
“Better if you rest.”
“Mandy, Mr. Dwyer’s grandfather invented the Yellow Pages. What do you think of that? Ever have an idea like that? Your mother never visits. She still with the goy?”
“I want to thank you,” Mandy said to the attendant. “For being here for him.”
“It’s my job.”
“It’s a noble job. I’d like to give you a little extra.”
“Something extra would be appreciated.”
“Mandy,” Jacob said. “Darling. How’s the whoring? You make enough money for the drugs? You let the schwarzers stick it in you?”
“Only one,” Mandy said. “My fiancé, Greg.”
She looked up to the attendant for some flicker of solidarity, but got nothing.
Mandy dug in her bag, plucked some bills out, and handed them over. The attendant tucked them in her pocket, but not before noticing, just at the moment Mandy did, that it amounted to only four or five dollars.
“Thanks,” the attendant said.
“Goodbye, Daddy.”
The tall man was not in cardio ballet the next week, and Mandy did not think of him. She kept to her steps and turns, the ones whose flawless demonstration maybe merely pained the owners of the panting faces before her. Though she had known some of the class for years, they all seemed a blur now, a moist, jiggling blob. Even as she glided into what she called her Funky Pirouette, she thought: I need a fucking meeting. She’d been avoiding meetings to avoid Greg. But now she decided to skip her post-class musing-on-the-mats routine, head straight for the Serenity Posse II meeting on [REDACTED].
She shooed all that spandex and sadness out of the studio, switched off the lights, stepped into the corridor.
The tall man stood by the water fountain.
“I just came by to apologize for being a yammering idiot last week.”
“No problem,” Mandy said. “But I really have to go.”
“Oh, O.K., sure. My name is Cal, by the way.”
“Mandy. I thought maybe you’d signed up for class.”
“I’m afraid I’m not Jewish.”
“You don’t have to be Jewish to take an aerobics class.”
“Are you sure?”
Mandy thought about it.
“I think anybody can join the J.C.C.”
“Really?” the man said.
“Why not?” Mandy said. “But what do I know?”
“I guess it would be weird if you weren’t Jewish, though,” the man said.
He wore a scent, smelled like high-school boy.
“Well, then,” Mandy said. “I guess we better sneak you out of here.”
“I thought you were going somewhere.”
“I am.”
It was just a nice neighborhood bistro and it was just a glass of Chardonnay. She wasn’t groping under a baseboard heater for a phantom rock. She wasn’t sucking on a glass stem. Instead, she sipped from a stemmed glass. A slip, sure, her life was an endless slip, but this was civilized. Fuck crack. Fuck everything but Chardonnay and Cal’s teeth, his azure—which meant blue but more intense—eyes.
Cal lifted his beer.
“Mazel tov,” he said.
“You mean l’chaim.”
“No, mazel tov to you for sneaking me out of there.”
“Cheers,” Mandy said.
“Are you Jewish on both sides?” Cal asked.
For a moment, she thought he meant both sides of her body.
“Yes,” she said.
“When did they come here?”
“Who?”
“Your people.”
“I don’t know. I think my mother’s grandfather came from [REDACTED] or something. My father grew up in Europe. He came here and rode his motorcycle to the county fair. That’s where my parents met. What about you?”
“Did your father come after the war? Did he . . . was he part of the Holocaust? I mean, not in a bad way, I mean . . .”
“Yes, he was.”
“Unbelievable.”
“What?”
“No, just, it’s so amazing he survived.”
“It is.”
“Because, I should get this out there, I’m absolutely convinced all of that stuff really happened.”
“I’m glad to hear it,” Mandy said. This Cal was an odd bird. “What’s your background?”
“I’m pure American.”
“So am I.”
“No, of course you are,” Cal said, studied the label on his beer. Soon, Mandy knew, he would peel it.
“So, you’re, like, a Jewish American?”
“Hey,” Mandy said. “What’s going on?”
“I just like to get to know people.”
“I see. O.K. Where are you from?”
“[REDACTED], originally.”
“What brought you to [REDACTED]?”
“A job. Computer stuff. I wanted to relocate. Change my life.”
“I hear you.”
“You don’t like your life?”
“I take it one day at a time.”
“Sounds reasonable,” Cal said. The sopped beer label curled around his thumb. “You want to see a movie?”
“It’s pretty late.”
“Nah, it’s early.”
“I think the showtimes are over. I go to the movies a lot.”
“We could go to my place,” Cal said. “I have movies. I have a bottle of wine there. You like Pinot Blanc?”
“I don’t know.”
“Find out.”
“Next time,” Mandy said. “I do have to go somewhere now.”
Mandy ducked into the church basement, found a seat. There was something seriously off about Cal. She could picture him as a king in the Middle Ages: Cal the Seriously Off. What a waste of a slip. She didn’t want to be here at the meeting, either, but some inner instrument had guided her. She would never call it a higher power. Nor would she ever share with booze in her system. You had to honor the honor code.
Adelaide waved, pointed to a free seat beside her, but Mandy shook her off. They all sat in the dark, dilapidated theatre built by the church during more enlightened years, when some priest had thought a sanitized production of “Hair” could lead bohemian strays to Christ. Some nights it felt as though the meeting were in fact an Off Off Broadway show, feverish, vital, undisciplined. Now the addict audience nodded along with the speaker, and when he’d finished they took turns from the seats with their woes. Newcomers bemoaned their cravings for powders, begged for release. Old-timers droned on about their sex addictions, their divorces, how fat they’d gotten on red velvet cake.
A familiar voice boomed from the back rows.
“I’m Greg and I’ve got five weeks clean!”
“Hello, Greg!”
“And I plan to make it this time, God willing, one day at a time, but I don’t feel safe right now, in the only place I can ever feel safe, here with my Serenity Posse Two posse. Why don’t I feel safe? Let me tell you a little story. Really, it’s more like a fable or a folktale. Once, long ago, this farmer worked his fingers to the bone so his son could learn to be a clerk at the castle. Every day, the farmer’s son walked many dangerous miles to the castle for his classes, but one morning a beautiful girl stepped out onto the path holding a magic potion. ‘Drink this,’ the girl said, ‘and you will feel so fucking good.’ Now, the farmer’s son, truth be told, had dabbled in this kind of potion before, but he knew it was wrong and had sworn off it. This girl, though, she was so kind and beautiful, he figured, what the hell? Well, I don’t have to tell you the rest, do I? Except to say that the beautiful girl turned out to be an evil skeezy witch who wanted to gobble up the farmer’s son, which made the farmer’s son act out in some emotionally hurtful sexual ways he couldn’t control. The farmer’s son did make amends to everyone involved, except the witch. He can’t talk to the witch, because she’s evil and contagious with spiritual cancer. Yet here she is tonight, the skank, testing me, testing me. You want war, bitch? Let’s do it. Your lame underdeveloped humanism is no match for my tower of higher power!”
Mandy rose, bolted up the narrow stairs toward the street. She could hear Adelaide scrape across the stone floor in her heels, but Mandy didn’t look back.
She went home to vomit the wine.
The next night, after class, Cal stood in the corridor. He flicked his chin and she followed him out to the street. It felt like a music video.
Old movie posters hung on the walls of Cal’s apartment. Old movie stars stared out over a leatherette couch, a television, a rack of videocassettes, a card table with a few chairs. Mandy didn’t get the old-movie thing, but the pictures looked classy in their frames. Gold karate trophies obscured the half-dozen books on the lone shelf.
“Welcome to my humble abode,” Cal said. He laughed, and Mandy decided that the word “abode” made it funny. 
The wine Cal brought from the kitchen was cold and a little tart.
“Salud,” Mandy said.
“L’chaim.”
They talked about whether they were hungry and decided to order something later. Cal ripped open a bag of that smart popcorn.
“So,” he said. “What do you feel like watching? Something sad, something funny? A drama?”
“How about something romantic?” Mandy said, but Cal pursed his lips in a fretful way, and she regretted it. “Or a thriller!”
“I’ve got something,” he said, pushed a tape into the slot.
Almost immediately, Mandy recognized what he’d chosen. It was black-and-white, but it wasn’t old. She’d dragged herself to see this film after it won every award. She thought it might help her understand her father, but she’d left the theatre after that sexy British actor kept shooting Jews from his balcony.
“I don’t think so, Cal.”
“What?”
“Not this. Let’s watch something else.”
“But this is the most important movie ever made. You can’t even get this at the store. I have a friend who—”
“Please turn it off,” Mandy said.
Cal paused it.
Any idiotic excuse could work. She just needed to get her jacket from the chair.
“It’s heavy, I know,” Cal said. “I’ve seen it dozens of times. I always cry.”
“Why?”
“Why? How can you ask that, you of all people?”
“No, why have you seen it dozens of times?”
“So I can understand,” Cal said.
Now he stood, clenched and unclenched his fists. His arm veins twitched.
“So I can understand and get well,” Cal hissed.
Cal stared at Mandy, and she tried to get a read, as he might have put it.
Just a beating, or a bonus rape?
But then Cal relaxed, or, really, kind of deflated. His breathing slowed and he kneaded his hands.
“Man, I’m sorry.”
“It’s O.K.” The jacket would be easy now. But how many bolts were there on the door?
“I need to tell you something.”
“No, you don’t,” Mandy said. “It’s all O.K.”
“I do,” Cal said. “Because there is something good between us, and I don’t want to mess it up.”
“Everything’s fine.”
“Six fucking million,” Cal said. “How can it be fine?”
“Don’t forget the Gypsies,” Mandy said. “Millions of Gypsies. And gay guys. Union guys. Retarded people. Tons were killed.”
“Six million Jews,” Cal said.
“I know all about it. Is that what you wanted to tell me?”
“No,” Cal said, and told her what he wanted to tell her. When he was done, he took off his shirt and showed her the tattoos, the swastikas and Iron Crosses, and even an ingenious Heydrich who Sieg-heiled when Cal flexed his deltoid.
“But you said you had no choice in prison,” Mandy said. “It was the Brotherhood or get the skiv.”
“The shiv. But no, Mandy. I believed it all. I was hard core. Even before the Brotherhood. That’s how I got to prison. I beat a guy almost to death. I thought he was a Jew. Turned out he was something else. Probably would have hated him anyway. Do you get it?”
“Get what?”
“What I’m trying to do.”
“Not really.”
“I’m confessing my sins. To you. I want to get better.”
“Are you even attracted to me?”
“Not in a healthy sense,” Cal said. “I mean, I definitely went out of my way to find the cutest girl at the J.C.C.”
“I’d better go.”
“Please, Mandy. Stay.”
“No.”
“I’ve got other movies,” Cal sobbed.
Home, Mandy found a message on her machine from her father’s attendant. It was garbled, because every message was garbled on this crappy old machine that Greg had stolen off a homeless guy’s blanket and given to her with great ceremony on her birthday, but she thought she heard the words “mild” and “stroke.” She’d have to wait until morning for a bus.
She called Adelaide.
“I knew you used,” Adelaide said. “I could tell. What happened, honey?”
“I just had some wine.”
“Just some wine? Who are you talking to, Mandy? Do you want to die?”
“Not tonight.”
“Good girl. I’ll have the car pick you up in the morning, take you to the soundstage. I’ve got a read-through, but after that we can hit a meeting. I have to say, I have a crazy week. You picked a fucked time to slip. But I’ve got your back.”
“Thanks, Adelaide.”
“Don’t thank me too much. It’ll go to my head and I might relapse!”
“My father had a stroke.”
“Oh, Jesus, I’m sorry, sweetie.”
“Maybe you could come out to the nursing home with me?”
“The one in [REDACTED]? Honey, you know I don’t go out there unless somebody has died. Is he going to die?”
“They said mild.”
“Mild is the best. Don’t worry, baby. Call me whenever. I’ll try to call back. No fucking wine, Mandy. Don’t be a victim.”
“O.K.”
“What kind of wine?”
“Chardonnay.”
“I’m not envious at all,” Adelaide said.
Her sponsor hung up before Mandy could tell her about the Pinot Blanc.
Tovah answered Mandy’s call on the first ring, as though waiting years for this moment.
“Of course I’ll come with you,” she said. “In fact, I have a car.”
“I don’t mean to impose.”
“I would be honored,” Tovah said.
A poem cycle.
Like what some stuck-up clown would ride.
Tovah’s Subaru had a dead battery. The garage guy offered to jump the car. He popped the hood, and they all leaned in for a better look at the massive corrosion, the split hoses, what the garage guy called a cracked block. Not that Tovah could have known. She never used her car, though she’d loaned it out often over the years.
“I’m still going with you,” she said.
They didn’t speak much during the bus ride. Tovah scribbled in her notebook, and Mandy studied the Hudson River and hated Tovah. They got off at the town plaza and bought some calzones.
When they reached the home, they found Jacob sitting up in his patio chair. Mandy had expected a weirdly folded arm, a contorted jaw, maybe some slobber, but he looked fine. He waved off his calzone but gestured for Tovah to join him. The attendant pulled Mandy into a tiny dispensary to talk.
“So,” Mandy said. “He seems pretty O.K. Pretty . . . mild.”
“The doctor was here this morning. We’re thinking now it wasn’t a stroke at all.”
“That’s great.”
“Yeah, well.”
“Well what?”
“The doctor noticed some other things. Symptomatic things with the eyes and such. Your father described recent headaches.”
“Headaches?”
“The doctor wants to run some tests.”
“Tests for what?”
The attendant pointed to her temple, shrugged.
“What does that mean?” Mandy asked.
“Nobody knows anything. That’s why we have tests.”
Maybe if Mandy had tipped the attendant more, she would have divulged the ailment that would soon slaughter her father.
The attendant stepped out of the room, which was full of locked white cabinets. Greg would have known how to knock everything open, grab the goodies.
Tovah and Mandy’s father hunched together at the table. Mandy joined them, tried to think of something nostalgic and uplifting to say until she realized she couldn’t understand them at all. They were speaking in what sounded like German about something very serious, but also occasionally funny, and frightening and unendurable, judging by Tovah’s face, which every so often froze like the faces of women in silent movies.
“You guys are getting on like gangbusters,” Mandy interrupted. “Tovah, I had no idea you spoke German.”
“It’s Yiddish. My grandmother taught me.”
“What are you guys talking about?”
“The Whatchamacallit,” Jacob said.
He stared up at his daughter with that foul gleam. She’d never had a chance, really, could never have been the daughter, the destiny you claw through the blood and feces of enslavement, of death, to claim. She consoled herself with something she’d read back in the days she still read about the Whatchamacallit, by the man who threw himself down the stairs: The good people died. Mostly only assholes made it out. That was how she remembered the passage, anyway. That was her read.
“You must know all these stories,” Tovah said.
“Yes, I’m a child of a survivor. A survivor of a survivor.”
Mandy smiled, stood.
“I need to check on some things. Are you two O.K. here for a while?”
“Oh, yes,” Tovah said. “Your father is amazing. I had no idea.”
“Daddy?”
“How’s your mother doing?” he said.
“She’s dead, Dad. Feel free to share your pain about it.”
Jacob’s cheeks drew in.
“You can’t share pain,” he said, laid his hand on Tovah’s wrist. “This girl knows that. She’s a poet.”
It took hours to cross the towns—Nearmont, Eastern Valley, Rodney Heights—that led to Mandy’s old house. All that cardio ballet and it still wiped her out, though she got her second wind and a floaty feeling in the bargain. Her friends the endorphins. She wanted to leap off a boat and swim with them.
Now she stood at the end of the driveway on Duffy Lane, a lost pilgrim in front of the pea-green split-level with beige trim. She ached for a certain sensation, a sudden click in the soul’s alignment. God: the ultimate chiropractor. Closure, some called it in the meetings. The more churchy addicts referred to forgiveness, but she knew what people meant. She hungered for it.
Maybe if she just knocked on the door a beautiful Sri Lankan boy would answer, and she’d lean down and whisper her story.
“Is it closure you seek?” he’d say, in melodious English.
Inside, the father of the family would smile and take the mother’s hand.
“You have made us happy by coming,” he would say. “We have waited many years for this.”
“Closure is not forgiveness,” the mother would say, even more melodically than the child. “But you are a blessed one, for you shall enjoy both.”
Then there would be an unexpected crunching sound, but actually that noise wasn’t coming from Mandy’s movie. An S.U.V. rolled into the gravel driveway. The doors opened and children scurried out in scout uniforms. A tired-looking woman with grocery bags followed.
“Can I help you?” she said.
Mandy thought she might be Brazilian. Or maybe Belgian.
“Look,” the woman said, and pointed her chin down toward the Shell station. “If it’s about the night club, I already signed the petition. I don’t want them to build it any more than you do. Those drunks will crash into my living room. But I’m really busy right now. I signed the petition. Take care.”
Mandy nodded, and the woman turned to her stoop.
Her legs had gone rubbery, and the bus back to the city was in the other direction, but Mandy hiked on around a bend of firs. The Shell sign hovered, its colors dulled, a corner of it broken, or maybe bitten off. They’d shuttered the station, covered the pumps with dirty canvas hoods.
What the poor woman died for, Mandy thought, but then knew it was a rotten thought, too romantic, something for Tovah’s poem cycle. The blazer, the tan, the lost dream of American entrepreneurship, her seduction and abandonment by transnational loins—these things hadn’t killed her mother. Nor had her father, with his smeary, world-historical wound. What had murdered her was her mind, a madness factory full of blast furnaces and smokestacks. Mandy’s mind had erected one, too, but Mandy would discover a way to raze it. She would grow a beautiful garden on the ashes of the factory, teach cardio ballet in more and more places, build a modest cardio-ballet empire. She would forgive Greg and help him however she could. She would help everybody. She would save herself.
The bus pulled into Port Authority, and she rode the subway uptown. Cal was waiting near the door of her building, and again they didn’t speak but did their dance of nods and shrugs, and he followed her into the lobby, just as he must have followed her home some night to find out where she lived. What was creepy to civilians was protocol for their kind. How else were you going to figure out where somebody lived, where the drugs were, or the money, or somebody to cling to long enough to forget the shame?
Inside the apartment, Cal pulled a bottle of wine from his coat, but Mandy shook her head, poured them glasses of water from the tap. They gulped them down and filled the glasses again and drank. Then Mandy led Cal into the bedroom and lit a lavender candle. Cal stood before her and stroked her hair with hands that had tried to kill a man, a Jew. Hate-crime hands, loving now.
He started to take off his shirt, but Mandy whispered, “No.” He seemed to understand, even tugged his sleeves down to his wrists to better hide his tattoos. He pulled her to the bed and his body was smooth and taut through his shirt. Toward the end, he whispered something too muffled to make out, though she heard the words “beautiful” and “feels” and “so good,” and then maybe “cabal.”
The world was what it was, one day at a time. Mandy rocked Cal to sleep and thought about this day she’d had, this stranger in her bed. She thought about Pinot Blanc. She thought about all the colors of the key tags, about salmon and salmon-colored blazers and the cleaver on the kitchen’s magnetic strip. Before she fell asleep, she yawned once and stretched her arm across the Panzer tank, invisible to her now, that in the morning would burst forth in loud hues from Cal’s belly.
Tomorrow she’d look up tattoo removal. They were doing big things with lasers now. When Cal was just a little more stable, she’d break up with him, gently, and then she’d begin her project of helping everybody she could help, and after that she’d head out on a great long journey to absolutely nowhere and write a gorgeous poem cycle steeped in heavenly lavender-scented closure and also utter despair, a poem cycle you could also actually ride for its aerobic benefits, and she’d pedal that fucker straight across the face of the earth until at some point she’d coast right off the edge, whereupon she’d giggle and say, “Oh, shit.” 

