HONOR
By Tessa Hadley

My mother and I lived alone. My father was supposedly dead, and I found out only years later that he’d left, walked out when I was eighteen months old. I should have guessed this—should have seen the signs, or the absence of them. Why hadn’t we kept any of his things to treasure? Why whenever he came up in conversation, which was hardly ever, did my mother’s face tighten, not in grief or regret but in disapproval—the same expression she had when she tasted some food or drink she didn’t like (she was fussy, we were both fussy, fussy together)? Why did none of our relatives or friends ever mention his name? (Which was Bert, unpoetically.) What had he died of, exactly? (“Lungs,” my mother said shortly. She had hated his smoking.)
But it didn’t really matter. We were pretty happy living à deux—at least, I was.
This was in the nineteen-fifties and the early sixties (I was born in 1956), so many things that seem quaint now were current and powerful then: shame, and secrecy, and the fear that other people would worm themselves into your weaknesses, and that their knowledge of how you had lapsed or failed would eat you away from the inside. My mother used to wear white gloves to go to the shops in summer. She’d carry a basket on her arm, real willow, shaped like a segment of orange, with a tan leather flap and a fastener like a little brass barrel turning in a brass slot. Later on, when I was a teen-ager, I thought she was dowdy, in her boxy good coats and silk scarves and low-heeled court shoes. But, looking at the photographs now, I see that I was the one who was a fright—overweight then, with my eyes made up like black pits—and that she was elegant and even sexy, in a cautious, respectable kind of way.
She had to go out to work in an office, to support us. So I spent a lot of time with my Nana, my mother’s mother, who lived just around the corner from our flat. (There’s another thing: didn’t I wonder why we never visited any grandparents on my father’s side?) Nana was miniature, with a tiny-featured face and black eyes, like a mouse or a shrew; on her cheeks there really was a kind of downy pale fur, if you caught her in a certain light, and when I was very young I liked to stroke it. She bought her clothes in the children’s department (cheaper), and went to the hairdresser’s once a week to have her hair set in skimpy gray-brown rolls that were pinned to her scalp, not out of vanity but as if it were her duty to submit to this punishing routine. There was a sticker on the underside of every piece of furniture in Nana’s house, saying whom she wanted to have it in the event of her death: Edna (my mother), Uncle Frank, or Uncle Ray. This was when she was still in her early sixties. (“That old chair! No, thank you!” Mum said, but only when Nana was out of earshot.) I had already decided what I wanted: a jewelry box that played music when the lid was opened.
Nana was also a widow (a real one). Her house was very bare, and there wasn’t that much furniture in it to inherit. This was because she was poor, but also because she was continually in the process of clearing out, giving things away, as if she were trying to weigh less and less, as if life itself were a mess that she was gradually getting to the bottom of. In the summer, when it wasn’t too cold, I used to play upstairs in the bedrooms, while Nana, in her housecoat, cleaned downstairs. (What was there to clean? She survived in that house as neatly as a mouse living on crumbs.) I played with the jewelry box, and with my dolls, and with a travel set that Uncle Ray had given Nana one Christmas, bottles made of soft thick plastic, with blue screw tops. You were meant, I suppose, to transfer your assorted creams and unguents into these, to take away with you, but Nana used only Nivea, and never went anywhere.
I can remember being flooded with happiness once, alone in Nana’s bedroom. I was lying on the brown-stained floorboards looking up at the underside of the bed—its springs and the flock mattress with its pompoms, turned each week. The dressing table, up against the window, blocked the light. Silky mauve curtains were partly drawn behind it, to keep out prying eyes, or to save the furniture from fading. The window was open three inches at the top for airing, and a breeze was tickling the curtains. My chest swelled with the full awareness of the moment, as if I were breathing in a different medium, thick and heady. Dust motes swam in the air. I turned my hand in them, and thought, I’m alive! In this world!
Was this before I went to school?
It must have been. I didn’t hate school, but it put an end to that rich, slow, expansive time, when I was free.
Mum and I were close when I was a child. We deluded ourselves that we were alike, and would always be the best of friends. We snuggled together with hot-water bottles under the eiderdown on the sofa, to watch “Compact” on TV, or “The Man from U.N.C.L.E.” We were both strong-willed, and that was fine as long as we were pulling in tandem: both of us were fastidious and opinionated and ready to disapprove of other people’s tastes, though we kept these judgments diplomatically between us. (Later, our tastes diverged, and we disapproved of each other.)
Nana said that we should move in with her. She couldn’t see why we were wasting our money renting a separate place. I took no notice of this. I thought of Nana as harmless, lightweight, easy to brush aside. My uncles teased her patiently; they found her comical. But I knew from my mother’s face that for her the idea of moving back into her old home was a living danger; the place was a trap that could close around her again at any time. If Mum smoked at Nana’s kitchen table (she’d hated my father’s smoking, then taken it up herself), Nana whisked the ashtray away the moment she’d finished, tipping the ash into the bin and rinsing the ashtray under the tap, wiping it first with a dishcloth and then with a tea towel. Without a husband, Mum was vulnerably exposed. The only way for her to defend herself against Nana’s bleaching, purging world view was to defy it: to wear scent and lipstick every day (“for the office”), not to bother taking up the carpet every time she cleaned, to treat me, for her birthday, at a Berni Inn. (Which was a waste, as Nana had predicted. Overawed and stubborn, I wouldn’t eat a thing.)
Mum came into my bedroom as usual one morning, in her stocking feet and petticoat, with the pile of sheets and blankets she had slept in neatly folded. We had only one bedroom, with a double bed and no space for any other furniture; most of the time I slept there, and Mum had the sofa. I liked to lie in bed, listening to her getting ready in the next room, moving about quietly so as not to wake me. I’d close my eyes when she came in, pretending to stretch and yawn.
“I’ve had a telephone call,” she said. “Stella?”
Telephone calls were a big event. The telephone belonged to the woman in the flat below ours, whose number we gave out only for emergencies. The call must have come very early, or very late the night before.
“Who from?” I asked, suspicious.
Mum said that my Uncle Frank had called, because Auntie Andy needed somewhere to stay for a while. Andy had rung Frank, trying to get in touch with my mother.
“You’ll have to budge up,” Mum said. “I’ll be in the bed with you tonight. We’ll give Andy the sofa.”
She stood for too long, hanging on to the pile of bedding, looking down at me, seeing me and not seeing me. There was something in her face that I didn’t like, something crumbled and damp. Usually her mask of brightness was securely in place: spirited, capable. My mother was quite a toughie. She could be brisk about other people’s troubles. She couldn’t afford to waste much sympathy: she had herself (and me) to look out for. No one else was looking out for us.
I was eight or nine at the time this happened. 

I could hardly even remember at first who Auntie Andy was: she was a relative of my father’s, married to his cousin, and she was the only person in that family who’d made any effort to keep in touch. We probably saw her once or twice a year. At Christmas, she dropped off a selection box of chocolate bars for me. She may have been moved to this kindness because she had a son about my age, Charlie. (Of course, then Mum had to buy a selection box for Charlie, too.) Andy wasn’t really Mum’s type. She was small and plump, her faded, gingery hair scraped back from her face with hair grips, her skin blotchy, no makeup. She used to wear a little beige beret, tilted to one side of her head, inappropriately jaunty. She was shy and never had much to say, sitting with a plate of our Christmas cake balanced on her lap, her fat knees spread in her tweedy skirt, her feet crossed at the ankles, where her nylons wrinkled.
Once, she’d said approvingly, looking round, “You’ve got it very nice here, Edna.”
Mum was still looming above my bed, gripping the pile of blankets.
“There’s just one thing,” she warned. “When Auntie Andy comes, you mustn’t mention Charlie.”
So something had happened to Charlie.
Charlie had come in with Andy only once: inches shorter than me, ginger-haired like her, but bursting, unlike her, with sly and hostile energy, full of contempt for girls and women. He’d ignored his mother when she tried to pass him her handkerchief and wiped his nose on his sleeve instead; in one of his eyes, there was a blot, as if black ink had spilled across the iris, and his stare was skewed unnervingly off target. His brown lace-up shoes, polished like conkers, had made me think of the boys kicking in the queue for school dinner.
I refused to ask my mother what had happened to him. I didn’t want to have spelled out for me the unseemly thing that had made my mother’s face pulpy. I liked the scandals we read about in magazines, but they were safely glazed over with falsehood and repetition; raw adult complications were as appalling to me as the sight of an egg, splattered in the pan, with its yolk broken and leaking. (I hated eggs.)
Mum probably wouldn’t have told me anyway; she was inflexible about keeping secrets.
Almost as an afterthought, she added, “And don’t mention Uncle Derek, either.”
I hadn’t even known that his name was Derek. I’d never met him.
Andy was there when I got back from Nana’s (where I always went after school). I was allowed to walk home on my own, after Nana had given me supper: Spam sandwiches, lettuce and tomatoes with vinegar shaken over them out of a cut-glass bottle. Nana already knew all about Auntie Andy’s coming, but she wouldn’t say anything to me directly: not saying things was her specialty. She had a horror of any kind of publicity or exposure touching the family, however remotely.
“I only hope Edna knows what she’s doing,” she fretted, not quite to anyone.
I was dreading arriving home in the middle of a big fuss. I couldn’t bear crises: the huddles of women, their lowered voices, smoldering glances, shutting the children out and yet looping them in—tantalizing them—to the dark, sticky center. Mum didn’t like fuss any more than I did; whatever it was that had happened to Andy (and Charlie and Uncle Whatshisname) had been bad enough to shock her out of her usual poise.
But when I got there Andy was sitting quietly at the end of the sofa, in the same tweed skirt that she had worn on her last visit. “How are you, Stella?” she said kindly. “How was school?”
She did look odd in some way—what?
I began gabbling about how well I had done in my mental-arithmetic test, and how in our books we had drawn around plastic stencils of the United Kingdom, with little holes to put your pencil where the cities were, and how I had to bring in something for the nature table next week, now that it was spring. My mother was frowning at me urgently, because by talking about school I must have indirectly been bringing up the subject of Charlie (although I couldn’t imagine Charlie ever shining at mental arithmetic or contributing to the nature table). But I didn’t want there to be any silences out of which ugly truths might tumble.
Auntie Andy said calmly, admiringly, that I sounded like a clever girl.
Her face was rather white. She reminded me of a girl at school, who had been slapped for extreme insolence (usually only the boys were hit): when this girl walked back to her desk, she was in a sort of smiling daze, vivid with shock. What was odd about Auntie Andy, I realized, was that her shyness had been blasted out of her by whatever had happened, the way an explosion can leave people deaf. When she had sat in the same place on our sofa eating cake, a few months earlier, she had been stuck for anything to say, apologetic, glancing around at the walls of our flat for inspiration. Mum had been imperiously, chillingly polite. (With hindsight, I think she must have chosen this as the right register for relations with my father’s family.) Andy had blushed, and stumbled over her words, and I had guessed that her feet were hurting her, in her stilettos. The time Charlie came in with her she had been suffused with maternal pride and surprise (“Can I really have made this?”), touching his hair and his shoulders surreptitiously, making him wriggle away, but she had also suffered, seeing his nose run in front of us.
Now she sat almost serenely, as if nothing ordinary could touch her.
Well, of course it couldn’t.
“I wanted to come here,” she said to my mother, with no hint of worry that she might be an imposition. “I remembered how nicely you’d done it up. When they asked me if I had anyone to go to, I expect they thought I’d go to my sister’s. But to be honest, Edna, I don’t want anything to do with the whole lot of them just now.”
That first afternoon she must have been experiencing severe trauma, as we’d call it these days. I don’t suppose she knew what she was doing or saying. But her shyness never did come back. It wasn’t that she became bold or greedy for attention or anything like that—far from it. Her shyness was transformed into something different: reserve, or dignity.
The only outward sign of crisis was the fact that they were drinking sherry. Or Mum was drinking it, and smoking, with hasty, nervous fingers. Auntie Andy’s glass, on the coffee table in front of her, looked untouched.
“Go on,” Mum said tenderly. “It’ll do you good.”
I’d never heard her be tender like that before with any adult; even our mutual appreciation was mostly expressed through chaffing and teasing. Obediently, Andy picked up the glass to sip, but something happened to it between the table and her mouth, as if her hand simply wasn’t under her control: her arm jerked helplessly, and the sherry spilled over the top of the glass, a big gout of it, onto her skirt and our carpet. She wasn’t just shaking—it was something more violent, like an avalanche or a volcanic eruption. Andy’s old self would have been mortified, but she only put the sherry carefully back on the table and folded her hands in her lap again, while Mum knelt beside her, blotting the mark out of her skirt with a tea towel. I saw that, if anything, it was Mum who was shy now: not shy of Andy herself but of what had happened to her and was now added on to her personality forever, exacting a kind of homage of respect and service.
I supposed that as I soon as I was sent to bed the two women would talk, and I would hear the dramatic music of their scandalizing revelations and commiserations penetrating the dividing wall. (I’d heard my mother talk like this with Auntie Jean, Frank’s wife, and had felt betrayed, because usually we made fun of Jean. It was our joke that she knew the gossip before it even happened; “jungle telegraph,” Mum called it.) However, when Mum told me to get my pajamas on Auntie Andy announced that she would go to bed now, too.
“The doctor’s given me some pills,” she said. “So I should be all right. I didn’t get much sleep last night.”
My mother didn’t explain that this meant that she, too, would have to go to bed, hours before her usual time—as a rule, she never turned in before eleven or midnight. She made up the sofa for Andy, filled a hot-water bottle for her. Then Mum and I were shut in the bedroom alone together. It was strange to have her undressing there while I was still wide awake, tussling to take off her underwear under her nylon nightie, pulling her brassiere out through a sleeve, settling down beside me with her book and her glass of water. She couldn’t concentrate on what she was reading, and her restlessness communicated itself. When she turned out the bedside light (I whined that I couldn’t sleep with the light on), I could feel the frustration of the long hours stretching out ahead of her in the dark, when she was so charged up with vitality and energy.
“So what happened to Charlie?” I whispered.
“Oh, Stella. Not now, for goodness’ sake.”
Heaving the bedclothes over, she turned her back on me. For a while we both lay awake, listening for signs of whatever unimaginable reverie was unfolding in the next room, but there was nothing to hear. Next morning, when Mum got up, Auntie Andy was already dressed, sitting there on the sofa with her slapped face and vague smile, and all the sheets and blankets neatly folded. 

On the way to school, Mum told me that Charlie was dead, flinging the word at me impatiently, as if it were somehow my fault, and I ought to have guessed by now: as indeed I had guessed, from the beginning. The actual word, spoken between us, worked its ravages nonetheless. I resented Charlie with a pure rage. Why couldn’t anyone else have been dead? He seemed a usurper in a realm that gave him a huge advantage of pity and terror: he surely didn’t belong there, with his ugly stamping feet. Only his squint had been a sign of difference and romance, marking him apart.
“Dead, how?” I insisted, and she looked down at me—bright and smart in her office outfit—with distaste, I’m sure.
“A nasty accident,” she said.
I couldn’t ask, for shame, “What accident?” But the uncertainty squirmed in my imagination, taking on foul forms.
“You’re not to repeat a word about it to anyone, is that clear? Not one word, or I’ll take my hand to you.”
She rarely smacked me, though she quite often threatened it; I was wounded that my mother could think I wanted to pass on our contaminating secret. Becoming the center of one of those huddles of girls, darkly informed, didn’t appeal. Anyhow, I feared that I wouldn’t be able to carry it off—somehow the tables would be turned and the dirty story would stick to me, making me a pariah. My instinct in those days was to smother any unpleasant truth, push it back into its hole. I was (rather abstractly) enthusiastic about dogs and horses, because they seemed to me clean, unproblematic: I had a dreamy image of myself running through long grass, with a collie jumping up beside me, trying to lick my face. (After long deliberation, I had elected collies as my favorite dogs.) This image was my idea of “nature,” and had in my private world a religious resonance.
Determinedly, all that day at school, I held Charlie at bay, inventing games to play with my couple of oddball friends. We lived together in an old farmhouse on an island. A portion of the playground was the sea, and we couldn’t walk on it. Sometimes there were dreadful storms.
“Here, boy!” I whistled and clicked my tongue commandingly, fed imaginary sugar lumps to imaginary horses with my hand held out flat.
What had happened to Charlie was worse than anything my fears could dredge up. It all came out in the trial. Needless to say, I was never in the court, but my mother got as much time off from the office as she could to sit through it with Auntie Andy. (They were “very understanding” at the office, even if that meant that they didn’t pay her for the time she was out.) So she heard almost all of it, and over the years it filtered down to me. Also, Nana kept the newspaper cuttings, which I found when she died—though in those days the coverage wasn’t as lurid as it would be now, and not everything that came out in court got into the papers. It was a surprise to me that Nana had kept the cuttings. She had never let Mum talk about the case, and she certainly hadn’t manifested any prurient interest in the details.
Apparently, for years Uncle Derek had been hitting Auntie Andy (Andrea, she was in the newspaper reports). His own mother admitted in court that he had a violent temper, though she also said that Andy ought to have known how to “get round” him. (Perhaps Uncle Derek’s father had been a wife-beater, too?) The defense tried to make out that Andy had goaded her husband with her “passivity,” her “unresponsiveness.” People had mixed feelings about men’s violence against their families in those days: it was disgusting, but it was also, confusedly, part of the suffering essence of maleness, like the smell of tobacco and the beard growth. I think that sexuality itself was sometimes understood, by the women in my family, as a kind of violence that must be submitted to, buried deep in the privacy of domestic life. Presumably the implication of the case for the defense was that Auntie Andy had driven her husband to murder by frustrating him.
They made a great point of Derek’s sobriety (“He never touched a drop,” Auntie Andy loyally testified), and his good reputation at his place of work. He was a salesman in a car showroom, and he “brought home very good money.”
Who knows how Uncle Derek would have fared in court if he’d killed Auntie Andy? On the night in question, however, he didn’t. He arrived home from work at the usual time and his tea wasn’t ready. (“Tea,” in this context, meaning meat and two veg, not Earl Grey and triangles of sandwich.) It wasn’t ready because Andy had been asked to go in to talk to Charlie’s teacher after school. (She hadn’t been planning to tell her husband this, but it came out as their row unravelled.) She had thought that perhaps Charlie was in trouble—he sometimes got into fights in the playground—but it turned out that the teacher was worried about his slowness in learning to read. (“Because I don’t have any other children,” Andy said in court, “I didn’t know that he was slow. I wish I’d known.”) Derek had had a bad day. He’d been working on a deal to sell a fleet of cars to a driving school, and it had fallen through.
My mother said that they made Andy show them on a plan how he had chased her around the house, punching and kicking her from room to room. “That’s why I ran out in the street,” she said, “without my coat or my bag. And I couldn’t go back inside, because I didn’t have my key. He’d never have let me in. But I didn’t want the neighbors watching while I hung about there in the cold. So I thought I’d better go to my sister’s, who only lives round the corner.”
She’d waited a couple of hours for him to cool down. She had gone to her sister’s before, in the middle of one of these rows, and left Charlie with his father. 

“When police officers saw you later that evening,” the defense objected, “they didn’t observe any signs of violence on your person.”
She said that he never hit her where the marks would show.
“Could you speak up, please?”
He’d said he didn’t want her flaunting it to everyone.
Charlie’s body had been found in the bath (with no water in it). They asked Andy where her son had been when she left the house: as far as she knew, he was in the living room, eating beans on toast, because the chops weren’t ready, in front of the television. He might or might not have been aware that his parents were quarrelling. They had both of them always tried to keep him out of it. Andy had been planning to get out his reading book later, as the teacher had recommended, although she hadn’t been very hopeful that he would agree to work on his spelling with her. “He had a mind of his own,” she said. She repeated that Derek had never hurt Charlie before. He wasn’t a bad father. He had been worried about his son’s problem with his eyes. He had even come with her to the doctor. But she agreed with the defense: she shouldn’t have left Charlie alone with him that night. She would never forgive herself. She didn’t know, now, what she had been thinking. They had arrested Derek in Nottingham. She had no idea why he’d gone there. He had no connection with the place.
I really wished, while Auntie Andy was staying with us, and then later, during the trial, when we saw a lot of her again, that I didn’t know any of this (and I didn’t know all of it then, though I did know about the bath, and that haunted me). I tried not to listen when anyone talked about it, but I couldn’t help being curious, too, against my better judgment: as if among the details there were information that I needed, for my own survival. Innocent-seeming fragments would get past my defenses (the reading book, Nottingham, chops for tea), then stick to my imagination like tar.
Inevitably, people at school got to know about my connection with the case. A deputation of older girls came up to me with solemn faces one playtime and presented me with a posy of flowers—probably picked out of the front gardens on their way to school—tied up with raffia from the craft cupboard. They wanted to say how sorry they were about “my little cousin”; one of them actually stroked my hair, as if I moved her to spontaneous pity. I wanted to tell them that I’d hardly known Charlie, that he was a snotty-nosed kid and I’d hated him, and that he would have hated me back if he’d deigned to notice my existence. But I didn’t dare; I knew they wouldn’t forgive me if I cheated them out of their syrupy, pleasurable sorrowing. So I thanked them and said that I would give the flowers to my auntie. On my way home, I buried them in a dustbin. For a couple of weeks, I was accorded a kind of sepulchral respect at school, and then they forgot about me. 

From time to time, when I was alone in a room, I would suddenly become fully, chillingly conscious of the fact that Charlie had once been alive inside his own head, as I was at that moment inside mine. And also that the person that he really was had undergone those things I had heard about in a moment that was as real as this one, and continuous with mine, because it had baked beans in it, and a bathroom with a familiar boring sink and towels and a toilet. My mind expanded to take in new possibilities. This open-air recognition was what lay in wait behind all the gloating, smothering words (“poor little chappie”).
A blast of wind blowing through space, icy clean.
Most of the time, naturally, when Auntie Andy wasn’t around, I hardly thought about Charlie. I got on with my life.
My mother used to say, in one of her set pieces, that she had never known what courage was until she saw how Andrea stood up to the lawyers in court. “She was so perfectly polite and patient, and she never let them get under her skin,” she told me. “I couldn’t have kept my composure the way she did.”
But once the trial was over the two of them didn’t see much of each other. Their lives took them in different directions, and they had never really had much in common. Andy didn’t become a new person after Charlie was killed. She never became one of the bright, quick, funny women Mum chose for her best friends; she was always rather sweet and blank and—what’s the word? Not conventional, because Mum was every bit as conventional. Andy was receptive, like a deep vessel into which life was poured. If this terrible particular thing hadn’t been poured into her, she would have been happier—it goes without saying—but less of a person. She was filled out by her fate. I actually think that this is quite rare, the capacity to become the whole shape of the accidents that happen to you.
And it wasn’t just a passive thing. I remember when Auntie Jean first came around, while Andy was staying with us. Jean had a big, forthright bust and piled-up black hair. She wore dangling earrings that were vaguely gypsyish. When Andy came out of the bedroom, where she’d been lying down, Jean knelt on the floor in front of her, wrapping her arms around Andy’s knees, sobbing extravagantly.
“I don’t know how you can bear it,” she said. “I know I couldn’t.” (Jean had three boys.)
The murder had cleared a social space around Andy. People didn’t know how to address her; probably Jean was just trying to broach that space in her overblown way. You can’t deny that her gesture matched the extremity of what had happened. But Andy wasn’t touched or embarrassed. She stood very still and unresponsive, until Jean let go.
“I’m sorry, I don’t like scenes,” she said coolly.
I’m sure that Uncle Derek was less interesting than his wife; he wasn’t interesting just because he had killed someone. As an adult, I lived for a while in a house that had brick steps leading down into a narrow coal cellar, where we kept the brooms and buckets and broken things we hadn’t got around to fixing. It used to flood with filthy water at certain times of year, and I imagine Uncle Derek’s inner life like that: cramped and musty-smelling, shut away from daylight, subject to the drag of tides of violence. The little despotism he installed inside the four walls of his home mattered only because it derived its authority from the whole towering, mahogany-colored, tobacco-smelling, reasonable edifice of male superiority in the world outside.
And mattered, of course, because of its consequences in other lives.
My mother reported that in court he said he’d “got the worst of a bad bargain” in his wife. They did let him out of jail eventually, I believe, after he had served fifteen years of his sentence. He settled in some part of the country where he wasn’t known.
During the time that Auntie Andy was staying with us, Mum left me alone in the flat with her on Saturdays while she went out shopping. Sometimes Andy played dolls with me. This was a new experience; the adults I knew didn’t play with children unless it was something organized, like cricket. Andy didn’t put on a childish voice. She entered into the reality of the different dolls’ characters and sensitivities with what seemed an authentic interest, almost naïve—I checked her face to make sure she wasn’t teasing me. We undressed and dressed them in their tiny clothes, flipping them over to do up the poppers, skewering plastic boots onto their hard, pointed feet. (After the trial was over, Andy made a dress for my teen-age doll, layered skirts in pink nylon, trimmed with minute roses of satin ribbon, unbelievably pretty, though it was a bit tight and wouldn’t do up down the back.)
Sometimes, when she and I were alone in the flat, Auntie Andy went into the other room to lie down, and I heard her crying, although Mum had told Jean that she never did. It didn’t occur to me to try to comfort her. I would pretend to carry on with my play, feeling miserably guilty. I was only a child. There was nothing I could offer, and I must have been a living reproach because I wasn’t Charlie, though Andy never made me feel this, by any word or sign.
Auntie Andy had to find a job. She had to get a divorce, and a place to live by herself. She couldn’t go back to that house, obviously.
All of this worked out well for her.
I think she must have come to our flat in the first place not only out of revulsion at everything to do with her old life but also because my mother’s solitary, cheerful style—frilly aprons and nail polish and lemon-yellow guest towels—had signalled to her, even before the disaster, a vision of possibilities other than the ones she knew. And Mum was honored by Auntie Andy’s choosing us; it seemed a consecration of Mum’s situation as a single woman, managing bravely by herself. Though Andy’s staying was an inconvenience and a strain, too: my mother acquitted herself with exemplary generosity; she really did. And then, within a couple of years, they both found themselves a man, as if that had been the whole point of the enterprise.
Andy went to work on the factory floor of the chocolate manufacturers where Uncle Ray was in the accounts office. She made a little face of apology when she told us about the job, as if she knew it was beneath her, the wife of a car salesman. But in fact she enjoyed the company of the women there, though she kept aloof from the roughest of their bantering and kidding. (I knew this, because Ray got me a summer job at the factory when I was sixteen—an awful job, removing the molds from the hot chocolate puddings.) She brought us paper bags of half-priced, imperfect chocolates whenever she visited, violet creams and Crunchies and Turkish Delight, my favorite—I picked off flakes of the chocolate with my teeth and then ate the jelly.
Even after she remarried, Andy went on working there. “Carrying on for the moment,” she said suggestively.
Her new husband, Phil, was lugubrious, with faded good looks, stick-thin. Not long after their wedding, Andy began hinting with proud smiles that she might be pregnant; she must have been fortyish by then—she was a lot older than my mother. Some of this I picked up at the time, from conversations between Mum and Auntie Jean: their twilight tones alerted me to the fact that they were talking about bodies. Apparently, she suffered from real morning sickness, her stomach swelled, her breasts were sore. (They hardly ever used that word, “breasts.” It was reserved for medical matters, uttered in lowered voices.) But in the end nothing came of it; it was a false alarm.
“Doesn’t it just break your heart?” Jean said.
Andy never did have another baby, although that pattern of phantom pregnancy repeated itself over and over, well into her fifties, by which time it had become a bit of a joke among the people who knew her, though not an unkind one. To Uncle Phil’s credit, he never showed the least sign of skepticism at her symptoms; he was punctilious in his attentions, urging her to put her feet up, bringing the barley water with soda that she’d “suddenly taken a fancy to.” Andy talked about her “disappointments,” as if they were miscarriages, but Jean didn’t believe that she ever really conceived in her second marriage. My mother said she didn’t know, it wasn’t any of her business. However bitterly these disappointments were felt in private, nothing altered Andy’s queenly kindness and distance. And, as far as I know, these phantoms were the only outward sign of continuing trauma from what had happened. I can’t help feeling, thinking about it now, that there was an element of histrionic performance in them, too, that contrasted with Andy’s usual reserve. Exacting our sympathetic good will, under false pretenses, she claimed some latitude, some indulgence, in return for the magnitude of what she had undergone, and what she had lost, which could never be restored. 

