BLUE ROSES
By Frances Hwang
A few months ago, I asked my daughter if she would invite my good friend Wang Peisan over for Christmas dinner. Wang Peisan’s husband, Hong Wenfu, died last year, and the only family she had was a daughter who had gone away on a Caribbean cruise without her. It’s true that my friend has a way of irritating everyone around her. She has a piercing nasal voice and believes that she sounds like one of those ladies from the 4368696e61 opera. Her large head tilts and sways as she speaks, her fingers curving through the air like birds. But, in spite of her many delusions, she is my friend, and I didn’t want her to spend the holidays alone.
“Mom,” my daughter said in her childish singsong way. “I’m not really friends with Mrs. Hong.”
I am used to my children thinking only of themselves. I didn’t push the matter. Everything would have been fine, except that my daughter called me back later that evening. “Mom,” she said, “I feel bad about not inviting Mrs. Hong over for dinner.”
“It’s O.K.,” I said. “You don’t have to feel bad.”
My daughter hesitated. “[REDACTED] says that if you want to invite her maybe you should have the dinner.”
“I should have the dinner?”
“If you want to invite her.”
“You want me to host the dinner?”
“It was just a suggestion.”
“Eileen, how old are you?”
“You know how old I am.”
“Well, I’ve waited your whole life for you to invite me to dinner. Now you want to take it back?”
“Mom—”
I hung up the phone.
It was really too much. The more I thought about it the worse I felt. It was a small thing, but what had my children ever done for me? When they were babies, I chewed their food before putting it in their mouths. I held my daughters’ skirts high above dirty public toilets. When my children asked me for anything, I looked in my purse and found what they wanted. I gave them tissues to dry their eyes, cough drops to soothe their throats, napkins to dispose of their gum. I wasn’t a magician—my purse must have weighed twenty pounds! But if I wasn’t prepared I was found lacking.
Eileen called me the next day to ask whether I would babysit her children on New Year’s Eve. She is so naïve! She didn’t realize that anything had happened between us.
I told her that the Zhous had invited us for a poker party that night. Also, that I wouldn’t be going to her house for Christmas dinner. Then I set the phone down.
Of my three children, Eileen is the sensible one, capable and even-tempered, my husband’s favorite. She is what we wanted her to be: a doctor. Elizabeth, our second daughter, is the one who picks fights and criticizes us. Andrew, our last, is careless and without ambition. I gave birth to him when I was forty years old and I have had high blood pressure ever since. When he doesn’t do what I ask, I tell him he comes from a rotten egg.
Eileen doesn’t usually fight with any of us and she stays neutral when we fight with one another. Like me, she is efficient and no-nonsense, although she does have a sentimental streak about family and home. Every year she sends out fancy Christmas cards, with her two beautiful, exquisitely dressed children pictured on the front. From her serene manner, you’d think she was above petty human emotions. But I remember when she was a two-year-old in pigtails—how she shrieked when I brought her sister home from the hospital, how she jumped up and down when she saw me feeding Elizabeth with her bottle. From then on, she refused to take a bottle, drinking like an adult from a regular cup. She slapped Elizabeth’s face, and even tried to throw her out of the crib. I had to spank her for the first time in her life. She howled, a little animal in pain, holding on to my skirt and following me from room to room, even though I wanted to be left alone.
I was afraid that her ill will toward Elizabeth would be permanent, but eventually she forgot her resentment. She grew older, more distant and polite. Now she is a picture of calm, my daughter, with her flat chest and dry, rough hair. The only hint of inner turmoil is the way she erupts in pimples every few months, a sign that her hormones are out of whack.
The phone began to ring again. I knew it was her and I didn’t pick up. My blood pressure was rising, and I had to lie down. The world seemed to wobble and shake, and I felt as though a pinball were bouncing around inside my head. My husband walked in, saw me lying on the couch, and picked up the phone. I closed my eyes, listening. “Don’t worry. I’ll talk to her,” he said to Eileen before hanging up.
I looked at him. “The last time I babysat their children, [REDACTED] came home early,” I said. “And do you know what he said to me? ‘I don’t know what you and Eileen arranged, but you can leave if you want.’ He said this like I was nothing but a servant! I wanted to say, ‘You know, I don’t need your permission to leave. You aren’t paying me, are you?’ And then do you know what happened? I opened the refrigerator to get my leftovers, and do you know what he said to me? ‘What are you looking for? Stealing more of our lasagna?’ ”
“He was making a joke.”
“I said, ‘This bag of food is my own.’ I wanted to remind him how many times we had treated him to dinner. When his relatives came to town, we treated them as well—do you remember how his brother ordered two entrées? When is [REDACTED] ever going to reach into that pocket of his and treat me, huh? Whenever we go out to a restaurant and the bill comes, he just sits there, smiling like a dummy.”
My husband went to the closet and took out his coat. He draped it over his arm, waiting for me to finish.
“I’ve taken care of their children all this time, and I ask them a simple favor: Please invite my friend over for Christmas dinner. ‘No,’ they say. ‘She is not our friend. We don’t feel comfortable.’ O.K., fine. But then you know what they say? ‘Why don’t youhost the dinner instead?’ It makes me feel so bad. I wish I’d never had children.”
“Lin Fanghui, don’t think like that,” my husband said. “That’s how it is. You do a lot for your children, but you can’t expect them to do the same for you.”
“Well, I don’t want to talk about this anymore. I am very upset.”
“I’m going to get the car fixed. Do you need anything?”
“No.”
He left. I was angry and took two tranquillizers.
Wang Peisan called to remind me that I had promised to take her to the grocery store. She used to pay a driver to take her, but he had quit the week before.
My friendship with Wang Peisan is strange, I know. She makes everyone around her crazy. Ever since she was a child, she has been indulged, her life as delicate as a teacup. She had weak lungs, and her parents didn’t expect her to live. They bought her larger and larger coffins as she grew. In one of her dreams, Wang Peisan wanders lost in a museum, room after room filled with coffins no bigger than a tissue box. She opens one after another—like Goldilocks, she says—and it exasperates her that she won’t be able to fit into any of them. What can you do with a person who has dreams like this?
When I first met Wang Peisan, almost two years ago, she and her husband had arrived late to a banquet hosted by our alumnae association. She had the straight, sexless body of a ten-year-old girl, yet she was the most striking old lady in the room, dressed in a cream brocade suit with intricate gold buttons. (You can always tell if a suit is expensive by looking at the buttons.) A tiny woman, with a disproportionately large head, she was as skinny as a toothpick. It was a shock to see her walk, as if someone else were controlling her limbs. The only two empty seats were at our table, and Wang Peisan and her husband, after some hesitation, sat down next to us.
One dish followed another—ham and dates on steamed buns, roasted duck, scallops and shrimp in bird’s nest, steamed flounder—but Wang Peisan refused to eat anything. The only thing she put on her plate was a single crayfish, which she did not touch, as if it were something to look at rather than to eat. We had paid fifty dollars a seat, and here was Wang Peisan perversely fasting and not getting her money’s worth. She made us feel that beneath our fine clothes we were nothing but animals. I regretted the folds of fat showing through my dress. There was a time when I weighed a hundred and five pounds! Now, when I see old friends, the first thing they say to me is “Lin Fanghui, how fat you are! You used to be so thin!” But although I’m fat, at least I look young for my age. My hair has red and gold highlights because I dye it with henna. I take estrogen and use a retinoid cream for my skin.
When I asked Wang Peisan why she wasn’t eating, she said that it was hard for her to find food she liked.
“I’m not such a picky eater,” I told her.
“My husband isn’t, either.” She looked over at him as he heaped a second helping of whole crispy prawns, still in their shells, onto his plate. “It’s a good thing, too. If he began having strong opinions, we’d be a two-headed monster.”
“We’d have to separate,” her husband said cheerfully, as he decapitated a shrimp with his chopstick.
Wang Peisan rested her cheek against her shoulder and asked, “So, in your marriage, who is harsh to whom?”
Before I could say anything, my husband broke in. “I let her do what she wants!” he exclaimed. “You know why? Because I married a goose who lays golden eggs!” He began boasting about my high-ranking job at C.S.I.S., which I had retired from two years before, and I had to pinch his leg sharply under the table. My husband always feels a need to impress people who are richer and more cultured than he is. He doesn’t realize that bragging is the surest way to reveal your low origins.
“If you’re involved in international relations, then you must be a realist,” Wang Peisan said. “You know what I studied? English lit-er-a-ture! I wrote my master’s thesis on fairy tales. Give me dreams over reality!”
When dessert came around, a cold sweet soup with peanuts, she examined her bowl with suspicion. “Well, I’ll just try a bite,” she said, hesitating as she lifted the spoon to her lips. She swallowed it hastily, and, to my surprise, ate the entire bowl with relish.
“Do you want some more?” I asked when I caught her staring at my half-finished bowl.
“That is not necessary,” she replied with dignity. “The soup is too sweet for my taste.”
At the end of the evening, we exchanged phone numbers, but I didn’t expect to hear from her. It often happens that you meet someone and have a nice conversation, you promise to call, but as time passes it no longer seems worth the effort. It’s hard enough to pick up the phone to call old friends, much less people you barely know. So I was surprised when Wang Peisan called me a month later, and, in truth, I slightly regretted having answered. I had a feeling that a friendship with Wang Peisan would be more trouble than it was worth.
“Lin Fanghui,” she said. “I was looking through the yearbooks of Chengchi University, because I wanted to find your photograph.” When she said this, I felt sure it was because she’d wanted to check my background.
“Well, did you find it?” I asked, unable to keep a note of sarcasm out of my voice.
“Yes. You wore too much eyeliner, but you were so pretty!”
“When I was young, no one ever said I was pretty. Only now they tell me. You know why? Because they see this old face! Young to them is pretty.”
At Wang Peisan’s invitation, my husband and I met her and her husband for lunch at their favorite restaurant. Afterward, we went to their house for tea and cake. My husband and I were impressed by the modern, pristine rooms, the lack of dust and clutter. In the bathroom, there were little white soaps that smelled like almonds. Very little of Wang Peisan and her husband was revealed by the house, a pale and airy shell, devoid of memories. They talked about their daughter, an attorney who worked in [REDACTED], but I saw no photographs of her or of her two children anywhere in the house.
Wang Peisan had an incurable sweet tooth. She had barely eaten at the restaurant, but her eyes glowed now as she nibbled on yellow cake soaked in the blood of strawberries. Her eyes were murky gray, the color of oysters, with the kind of opaqueness you see in the elderly or the blind. When she was excited, they came to life like dull stones immersed in water.
Wang Peisan told us the story of how she and her husband met. “He chased me for two years,” she said. “Every week, he visited me at my parents’ house and brought me curious gifts. One time, he brought me a watermelon from his mother’s garden, another time a little box filled with magnolia buds. I left the box open on my bureau, and my room smelled sweet for days! He even gave me a poem he had written. His poetry was so-so, not a horse and not a tiger. But somehow his kindness and sincerity touched me. Before we married, he promised he would do whatever I asked of him. And he has been a very good husband to me. When my parents died, he invested the money I inherited, and all I had to do was sit back and watch it grow.” The curled tip of her tongue poked out, touching her upper lip. “But, you see, I never wanted to be married. I wanted other things from life. I didn’t want a husband. Or children.”
“Well, what did you want?” I asked.
“I wanted to write about other worlds—my own fairy tales! But I haven’t written even one. It’s too late to begin now. I’ve become stupid, doing nothing with my life. Just sitting on top of my money like a cold, fat snake.”
“Lady White Snake,” her husband said, and we all laughed.
Wang Peisan gave a discreet smile. She was no doubt pleased by the allusion to the old fairy tale of a snake who wants to experience human love and takes on the shape of a beautiful woman. Perhaps she imagined she belonged in such romantic tales.
Her husband didn’t seem to mind the way Wang Peisan complained about being unfulfilled in life. Probably he had heard it all before. He was an amiable man, a bit plump, with thick square glasses. He looked as soft as a sponge. If you squeezed him, the moment you let go he would return to his original shape. Of the two, he seemed much the healthier person. How could any of us have known that he’d be dead before the winter was over? One evening, as he lay on the couch reading The Economist, his heart stopped. Only a few days before, he’d had a premonition of death. Looking at Wang Peisan, he had said with a slight smile, “If I die, I don’t expect you to live too long after me.” It wasn’t a curse, Wang Peisan told me. He was merely stating what was obvious to both of them. And in fact less than a year later Wang Peisan’s lungs were no longer clear.
But I am getting ahead of myself.
Wang Peisan asked me to take her to the grocery store, because she couldn’t drive. I assumed that she was too small or weak to manipulate a car. Her feet might not reach the pedals, or she might have difficulty seeing over the steering wheel.
I made her brown tea eggs and a sour-cream coffee cake to satisfy her sweet tooth. When I arrived at her house, she seemed quite pleased with my offerings. “You made this yourself?” she asked.
“I got the recipe from the Internet. The cake has a lot of butter in it.”
“It looks so tempting. I almost want to eat a piece right now.”
“Well, why don’t you?”
“I’d have to brush and floss,” she said. “I don’t feel comfortable unless my teeth are clean. I often have nightmares about my teeth. I’m chewing on a caramel and my molars get stuck together. I can barely open my mouth. Or my teeth become sharp and pointed—like I’ve turned into a vampire!” She opened the closet and took out a lint roller, applying it to her clothes even though they didn’t have the slightest speck on them. “Do you have recurring dreams like that?”
“I don’t remember my dreams.”
This was not entirely true. I often dream of going shopping and being frustrated by my purchases. But this type of dream did not seem profound.
“You don’t remember?” As if to console me, she gently moved the lint roller up and down my sleeve. I brushed her off, shooing her out the door.
I made her sit in the back seat of my car.
“But I want to sit up front so I can talk to you.” She frowned as she struggled to put on her seat belt.
“You’re too small,” I said, leaning over and snapping her in. “What if I hit something and the air bag inflates? You’d be killed instantly.”
She nodded slowly. “You think of everything.”
At the superstore, I pushed the shopping cart and followed Wang Peisan up and down the aisles. She wanted to buy artificial tears because her eyes were dry, but she couldn’t decide which size to get. When I told her it was more economical to buy the larger bottle, she wondered if it would go to waste. To put an end to her agonizing, I dropped the smaller bottle into the cart, and she nodded bravely, but before we moved on she plucked it out and exchanged it for the larger one.
She worried and debated over every item on her list. She deplored the colors of nail polish and disapproved of the cost of toothpaste. With stiff, cunning fingers, she broke open plastic seals, unscrewed jars of ointment, squirted dollops of lotion into her palms. This one was too greasy. That one too watery. She sniffed, making a face. Who wants to smell like baby powder? She had to be careful. The last lotion she’d purchased had given her a rash. There was one she’d bought two or maybe three years ago that had been just right. Why didn’t they sell it anymore?
At any moment, I expected the manager to come and throw us out of the store.
Wang Peisan ended up buying no lotion at all. At produce, we came to a halt over a bag of lettuce. She searched through the bags, complaining that none of them looked fresh. I felt cold and light-headed under the fluorescent glare. Every now and then, the vegetables were automatically misted. Finally, I couldn’t take it anymore.
“You are a very picky person!” I snapped. “If you want a bag of lettuce, choose one. If not, let’s go!” I began to walk away with the cart.
“Wait just one moment—”
“This one looks fine.” I grabbed the closest bag and threw it into the cart.
“But that one has carrots,” she said, following me reluctantly. “I don’t like carrots.”
In the car, she took out her cell phone, and I heard the slow, painstaking push of each button. “Hello, Ermei, how are you?” She spoke in impeccable English, haughtily enunciating each word. “No, I’m not feeling better. I don’t think I’ll live for too much longer now that your father is gone. I wanted to tell you that you don’t have to take me grocery shopping. Yes, that’s right. My close friend Lin Fanghui took me today. She is very good to me. I could not have asked for a kinder friend.”
When she hung up, our eyes met in the rearview mirror. “I realize I must have been difficult,” she said after a pause.
Before I could stop myself, I apologized as well. “I have a short temper. I’m not as patient as I could be.”
“That’s true,” she said. “My husband was a very patient person. I realize no one can be as patient with me as he was.” She sighed, looking out the window. “He hasn’t been dead for a year and already my daughter is taking advantage. She can’t wait to get her hands on my money. Just last week, she and her husband forced me to hand over ten thousand dollars to avoid the inheritance tax. They’re so tactless—already planning my death!”
I felt sympathy when I heard this complaint. Nonetheless, I resolved never to take Wang Peisan shopping again. I am sixty-one years old and I have to take medication to control my blood pressure. Though Wang Peisan was a small woman, I could not handle her.
A few days before Christmas, my husband and I drove to the airport to pick up Elizabeth and Andrew, who both live in [REDACTED]. On the way home, they made fun of me for getting my eyebrows tattooed. When I was young, I made the mistake of plucking my eyebrows to a pencil-thin line. That was the fashion then. But, after years of ruthless plucking, the hair did not grow back, and I had to draw my eyebrows on instead. Then a friend told me that I could have them tattooed on.
“But why did you do it?” Elizabeth asked. “It’s so unnatural!”
“If I didn’t, I’d have to draw them on every day, so what’s the difference?”
“Doesn’t it bother you that it’s permanent?”
“No. I like it.”
“Mom,” Andrew said, “you look scary.”
“It’s too dark,” Elizabeth agreed.
“You’re like that woman from ‘Mommie Dearest.’ ”
Both of them laughed, and I looked over at my husband, who was smiling slightly. I flipped down the car’s visor and examined myself in the mirror. My eyebrows were thin, not thick like Joan Crawford’s. “It looks good,” I said. “Anyway, I don’t care what you think.”
That night, Elizabeth knocked on my bedroom door to harass me about not going to Eileen’s house for Christmas dinner. I told her my side, but she continued to pester me with endless questions. She should have been an F.B.I. agent. “You’re ruining Christmas for everyone,” she declared.
“You’re welcome to go to Eileen’s house for dinner,” I said. “I’m not forcing you to do anything against your will, am I?”
“It’s such a small thing that Eileen did,” my daughter said. “I don’t understand why you’re so mad at her.”
“It seems a small thing to you. But not to me.”
“Don’t you think you’re blowing this out of proportion? Eileen would have invited your friend if she knew you’d react like this. She just didn’t think it was a big deal.”
“That’s what upsets me!”
“What?”
“She never thinks how I feel. No big deal, right?”
Elizabeth gave an exasperated sigh.
“What I’d like to know is what nice thing has she done for me lately?”
Elizabeth reflected. “What about that sweater she gave you for your birthday?”
“I can always buy myself a sweater,” I said. “Why can’t she think bigger?”
“You mean something more expensive?”
“Your cousin doesn’t have money like Eileen, but she and her husband bought her father a used Mercedes. Your father and I were impressed. When have our children given us a gift like that? It’s not that I expect a used Mercedes from you. In fact, don’t ever give me a car that is used, O.K.? I’m just saying that there are some gifts that involve sacrifice, you see what I mean?”
Elizabeth brooded on this. “If we don’t give you extravagant gifts, it’s because we know you can always buy something better for yourself. So what’s the point?”
“I’m just saying the gesture would be nice. After all we’ve done for you kids. Do you have to pay back any student loans, like your friends? Do you see any other parents still paying their daughters’ rent?” Elizabeth pressed her lips together, her face darkening. “What I hate is that you all suffer from amnesia. If I give you a loan, you don’t pay it back. I have to remind you. It’s not that I care about the money. It’s the principle. Whenever I want something, I have to tell you. I’m sick of it. None of my children ever think or remember.” 

My daughter made a sour face and left the room. I could hear her slamming her bedroom door. She is twenty-seven years old and still has her own bedroom in this house. Of my three children, she gave me the most trouble. She was always angry for no reason. When she was four, we took her and Eileen to [REDACTED], and in the car she wouldn’t stop crying. There was no pleasing her. Finally, I turned around and said that if she wasn’t quiet we would abandon her on the highway. This made her scream even louder. I told my husband to pull over to the side of the road and yanked her out of the car. She struggled and kicked as I dragged her to the weeds at the road’s edge, where the woods began. If she didn’t stop, I said, I’d leave her there. How would she like that? She’d become a homeless orphan, lost in the forest, no one to feed her, no more pretty dresses. She slipped out of my grasp and dashed back into the car, reaching over to lock her door. As I approached, she panted and glared at me from her window, her eyes glinting when I tried to open my door. She’d locked that as well, and my husband had to lean over to let me in.
In the middle of the night, my husband woke me up. “Lin Fanghui, I want to tell you something. I think I stepped on a black spider. Already I took one Benadryl. Maybe I should take two. Please check on me later to see if I’m still alive.”
I turned on my side. “Do you have the spider? We can see if it’s poisonous.”
“No. I flushed it down the toilet.”
“Stupid! You should always keep the body for evidence.”
“Well, maybe I threw it in the trash.”
“Do you remember whether you flushed it down the toilet or not?”
“I don’t remember.” There was a pause, and then my husband burst out in a piteous voice, “Why am I so unfortunate? Usually I wear my slippers.”
“Are you sure you got bitten by a spider?”
“Yes. I have a funny tingling sensation in my foot.”
“Turn on the light.”
He did, and I squinted, shading my eyes. He was leaning forward in bed, holding his ankle and rubbing the spot. “It burns. Maybe if I put some ice on it.”
I was thinking that if this spider was poisonous ice was not going to save him. But I dragged myself out of bed and went downstairs to fetch it. My son’s light was still on, and I knocked on his door.
“What?” he said.
“Go to sleep,” I said through the door.
He said nothing, and I didn’t move, trying to hear what he was doing.
“Mom?” he said after a moment.
“What?”
“Stop spying on me.”
He thinks I am a spy ever since I asked to be his friend on Facebook.
I returned to my bedroom and found my husband in the bathroom looking through the trash can, sifting through crumpled tissues, a discarded newspaper, nail clippings, and matted clumps of hair. He couldn’t find the spider. I gave my husband the ice. We went back to bed and turned off the light.
“Don’t forget to check on me,” he said.
“I won’t.”
“Hopefully, I will be alive.”
“Yes.”
I moved my pillow around and closed my eyes. But, try as I might, I couldn’t go back to sleep. It was three in the morning. I was thinking about Elizabeth, and I wondered what I had been hoping for when I had her or any of my children. What lay in store for them but that their eyes would empty, their skin turn blue? Even my granddaughter, Isabel—it was incredible to think about—even four-year-old Isabel, who jumped and skipped, her feet doing little flutter kicks in the air.
Only two weeks ago, Eileen had dropped Isabel off at my house. When Isabel realized that her mother had left without her, her face reddened and her eyes clouded, and I could do nothing to prevent the storm. “I want Mommy!” she sobbed. “I want Mommy!” I tried to calm her, but she continued to cry and ask for her mother, so I said with some annoyance, “I want my mommy, too. Where is my mommy?” Because my mother had left me, and this was the greatest calamity of my life. Did she understand that? Isabel looked at me, and perhaps she understood, because the next moment she opened her mouth and let out a long, piercing shriek. When she stopped, we gazed at each other, and then I said, “I am sadder than you. Your mother is coming back in an hour. My mother has disappeared for good.”
I did not go to that Christmas dinner. My husband stayed home, too, because he knew he had to. My daughter and my son went to Eileen’s.
Elizabeth told me the details when they got back. The dinner had been a gloomy affair. Eileen had bought six filets mignons in case my husband and I showed up. She had spent a small fortune on the steaks, but then ended up overcooking the meat. As the four of them grimly chewed, Eileen had burst into tears. “What am I going to do with all this food?” she asked. Her outburst made them feel bad, because Eileen rarely showed her emotions. If she’d known I’d get so angry, she said, she would have invited Mrs. Hong and a thousand other of my friends over for Christmas dinner. “What does she want me to do?” she cried, slapping her hand on the table. “What does she want me to do?”
“I’ve never seen her so upset,” Elizabeth told me, and I knew she was trying to make me feel guilty. “You really should make up with her, Mom.”
“Eileen still doesn’t understand why I’m angry.”
“I told them your side,” Elizabeth said. “[REDACTED] said you were crazy. He said that he knew you were crazy all along, but that this confirmed it. He said that whenever we had Christmas from now on he would be sure to remind you of this Christmas and what you did to ruin everyone’s happiness.”
The phone rang. It was Eileen. My husband answered it and asked me to pick up.
“No!” I said.
“Lin Fanghui, please pick up the phone.”
“I will not!”
“You are acting like a child.”
But something in me had hardened. I wanted to hold on to my anger, no matter what.
“She won’t come to the phone,” my husband said. To my surprise, his voice broke and he began to cry. “Don’t worry. She will come around. Your mother and I love you. I can’t talk anymore. I have to go.” He hung up the phone, drying his eyes with his thumb and forefinger. He looked at me. “She doesn’t deserve this. You’d better make up with her. A small thing like this, you blow up for nothing. You want to disown her? Your own daughter! You can’t take her back like something you purchased at a store. This is your life, what you’ve chosen.”
Wang Peisan called me two weeks later. Since our shopping trip, I had been avoiding her. My husband, who always picked up the phone now, handed it to me, muttering, “Just hang up on her.” Like everyone else, he thought Wang Peisan a terrible nuisance, but his saying that made me think that he did not have a good heart.
Wang Peisan did not sound like herself. Between coughs, she asked in a croaking whisper if I could take her to the doctor. I was tempted to make an excuse and suggest that she call a cab, but in the end I agreed to pick her up that afternoon.
She answered the door in cotton pajamas, covering her mouth with both hands. “Don’t worry,” she said, noticing that I kept my distance. “I am no longer contagious.”
I asked why she hadn’t dressed. “Won’t we be late?”
“Oh, we have plenty of time,” she rasped. “I want to eat something first.” She opened the refrigerator and took out the cake I had made for her more than a month before. It had turned a mushroom shade and looked slick and congealed.
“You can’t eat that!” I said. “Don’t you see? It’s spoiled!”
“Once I put it in the microwave, it will be O.K.”
“But you’ll get sick!” I took the slimy cake from her and threw it into the trash.
She screeched like an ancient bird, her pupils dilating. “Don’t do that! Those cakes are my lifeline!” She opened the trash can and dug the cake out.
“But it’s dirty now! You’re not going to eat it, are you?”
“It’s still in the plastic, see?” She calmly unwrapped the cake and cut what was left into three pieces. She placed one piece on an immaculate plate, which she set in the microwave. “The next time you make a cake, please bake it in a square pan. It will be easier to cut that way.”
“Don’t eat it,” I begged her.
“Believe me, after the microwave it’s going to taste good.”
Wang Peisan delicately worked her fork into the cake, as though anticipating French pastry, and took a thoughtful bite. She chewed for longer than I expected. “Oh, you’re right,” she murmured. “It tastes funny.” She began to cough until I thought she might choke, and I handed her a paper towel, into which she spat. Then, like a child, she gravely presented the balled-up napkin to me, and I threw it away along with the rest of the cake.
We were late for her appointment. In the car, she clutched her elbows. “Lin Fanghui,” she said, “when the doctor examines me, I want you to be present.”
“Are you sure?” I asked.
“I will feel better with you beside me.”
In the examination room, the nurse gave Wang Peisan one of those confusing gowns that are so difficult to tie up and which leave you feeling exposed. I averted my eyes as she took off her clothes, but I was not spared the sight of her cadaverous body, the loose, wrinkled skin and sunken chest. She weighed only sixty-five pounds when she stepped on the scale. Now, perched on the table, she looked like a small plucked bird.
The doctor arrived, a large handsome man with shiny, sculpted hair. He looked like Superman. She was a sly one, choosing such a good-looking doctor.
The doctor noted her weight and asked if she was drinking Ensure. Wang Peisan made a face. “It tastes like chalk.”
“And you are still taking the Zoloft every day?”
This is how I learned that she had been taking medicine for depression since her husband died.
Wang Peisan tilted her head. “Some days I feel better, but then it’s as bad as before.”
“So, on the whole, would you say you feel better?”
“Maybe a little. The pills make me numb. Like I’m wearing a mask.”
As the doctor listened to her lungs, I recalled an evening that my husband and I had spent with Wang Peisan and her husband, when Mr. Hong had entertained us with stories of his wife as a young woman. “She was extraordinarily beautiful,” he said, and at these words Wang Peisan straightened up in her chair. “All the eligible bachelors in our village were in love with her. One would sit at her feet, another would be at her elbow, and another would hover by her shoulder.”
“Which one were you?” my husband asked, and we all laughed.
“All of them,” Mr. Hong replied. “We circulated around her, vying for attention. She was a masterly flirt, like that Vivien Leigh, that Scarlett—she had all the men eating out of the palm of her hand!”
Wang Peisan smiled, enjoying her husband’s flattery.
Like many men, my husband is skeptical of stories of an old woman’s past charms. On the drive home, he turned to me and said, “Wang Peisan is not the only one who wants to write fairy tales.”
ADVERTISEMENT
The doctor was listening to Wang Peisan’s lungs with unusual attention, and I felt a chill pass through me when he announced that she needed to get a chest X-ray.
“Blue roses,” she said quietly when he left the room.
“What?” I asked.
“Pleurosis,” she said again, and I was more confused than ever. “Haven’t you seen ‘The Glass Menagerie’? I always knew these lungs would be my downfall.”
Her suspicion turned out to be correct. Two hours later, after the doctor had examined her X-ray, he returned to tell us that Wang Peisan had pneumonia. “I don’t want you to panic,” he said. “But, because of your age and your condition, this could be a serious situation. I’m going to call an ambulance so you can get checked into the hospital right away.”
“That’s unnecessary. I don’t feel so bad,” Wang Peisan told him.
“You need to be closely watched, and the hospital can give you the treatment you need.”
Wang Peisan bowed her head. “You don’t have to call an ambulance. My friend here will take me to the hospital.”
“You’ll take her right away?” the doctor asked me, and I promised I would. But in the car Wang Peisan persuaded me to stop at her place so that she could pack a bag. As soon as we entered her house, she shut herself in the bathroom. I could hear her coughing as drawers opened and closed, but when I asked if I could help she didn’t reply.
I wandered into the living room and sat on the cold leather couch. The room had been decorated entirely in neutral colors, with cream carpet and beige walls. There was not even a television set—Wang Peisan said that it would disrupt her inner life. I stared at the hands of the silent gold clock on the mantel. My head drooped forward, and I allowed myself to fall slowly to my side, overcome by the blank, silent room.
When I opened my eyes, the hands of the clock had moved a quarter of an hour. I forced myself to stand up. The bathroom light was still on, and I knocked on the door. “I’m sorry,” I said, “but I fell asleep. Are you O.K.?”
A long silence passed before I heard a querulous voice. “Lin Fanghui, don’t worry about me. You can go home now. I’ve decided to stay here. I don’t need to go to the hospital.”
“What?” I tried to open the door, but it was locked. “You heard the doctor. This is serious. You need to come out right now so I can take you to the hospital.”
“I appreciate your concern. You’ve been very good to me. But I want to stay here. In the hospital I will have to wear their clothes and eat their food. I will be exposed to all sorts of diseases. I am more comfortable here.”
“Please come out,” I pleaded.
“Who knows what my daughter will do if I go with you? She might try to sell my house while I’m away. If you don’t want me to become homeless, you’ll understand why it’s in my best interest to stay where I am.”
“Open the door right now.”
“Thank you, Lin Fanghui, but I no longer need your help. Goodbye!”
I was stunned by her duplicity. I wondered if I should call her doctor. But the person who would have more influence was her daughter, and I began to search the house for her number. In the drawer of Wang Peisan’s night table I found a small spiral notebook with a few telephone numbers jotted on the back cover. The pages were filled with an elegant, flowing script, which I assumed to be Wang Peisan’s until I held the notebook out at arm’s length and began to read.
As I washed the dishes, she told me to turn the water down. She thinks I waste water and has told me so numerous times. I’d been thinking about a story I’d seen in the news about a frilled shark discovered off the coast of 4a6170616e. Researchers in Shizuoka captured the creature and put it in a pool, then filmed it as it died. Such a thing had never been caught alive, and it looked like something out of a nightmare, part eel, part shark, with a long serpent’s tail. It had lived in the darkest depths, and light had never touched its eyes before it made its way up to the surface to die. In the footage, it swam unsteadily, its jaws wide open, leering, as it tipped from side to side. I was thinking about that poor creature’s fate when she told me to turn the water down. I automatically obeyed, yet I felt a sudden spasm inside me. How many times have I experienced such convulsions without thinking about them? That awful grinning serpent swaying in the water.
Reading these words by Wang Peisan’s dead husband gave me a shock, like a cold hand pressing on the back of my neck. I could hear my heart beating loudly. I put the notebook back in the drawer and returned to the locked bathroom, banging my fist on the door. “Open up!” I was afraid that my heart was going to burst inside me.
“Forgive me, Lin Fanghui. If I go to the hospital, I may never come out.”
“Don’t be such a chicken! Do you want to die here alone? I promise you will get better at the hospital.”
“I don’t think so. The hospital is a dead end for me.”
I took a deep breath. “You are making me very upset, and my heart is beating out of control. If you don’t come out now, I’m going to have a heart attack. Then you will be responsible for not one death but two!”
There was a long silence before the door was unlocked and Wang Peisan emerged, blinking, from her hiding place.
“Give me your cell phone,” I said, and she dug into her purse and handed it over.
I called her daughter and informed her about Wang Peisan’s condition. “I’m taking your mother to the hospital now,” I said. “I expect to meet you there in an hour.”
“Would it be possible for you to stay with her until this evening?”
“Absolutely not. I am an old woman and your mother is tiring me out. I will see you in an hour.” I hung up the phone. What a heartless child. I tell her that her mother is dying, and she wants to avoid responsibility. That is [REDACTED] for you.
Wang Peisan sat quietly in the back seat as I drove her to the hospital. I peered at her a couple of times in my rearview mirror, and she seemed distracted, stroking the edge of an eyebrow as she gazed out the window. She refused to speak as we waited for her to be checked in, closing her eyes and lifting her chin in response to anything I said. Her daughter arrived an hour late. Short and slender like Wang Peisan, the daughter wore a sleek tailored suit and high heels. Her long blond hair was startling to see. A sophisticated beauty who could have been mistaken for a movie star.
I took Wang Peisan’s hand and pressed it. “I will visit you soon,” I said, but she just looked away from me with a slight smile on her lips. I left feeling remorse. I had acted badly, but at least she was in the hospital.
I don’t understand how I have reached a point in my life when I look around me and all I can do is count my losses. In the mornings, I get out of bed and stare at my creased brow, the age spots staining my cheeks. I brush my yellowing teeth with baking soda, eat the lukewarm oatmeal my husband cooked two hours earlier. I do laundry. I wash dishes. I check my stocks on the computer, then watch an hour of my favorite Korean soap opera. Throughout all this, I am struck by a sense of futility. You hear about senseless, irreversible accidents, little accidents that become large ones—a woman carrying bags of groceries trips in a parking lot and dies—and I feel that something similar has happened to me. I tripped over some tiny thing and received a sharp blow to the head. When I opened my eyes, the sky had shifted and I was no longer where I had been.
Elizabeth and Andrew flew back to [REDACTED]. In the week that they were here, I couldn’t help but notice how much I repel my son. Once, when we were alone in the car together, he complained about my smell. “Mom, you stink,” he said, waving his hand in front of his nose and rolling down the window. He claimed it was the lotion I use. No doubt the thought that he once lived inside my body disgusts him. 

And Elizabeth—I know she resents me, perhaps because there is nothing I can do to make her happy. As a child, she wanted to do me harm, tearing at my clothes when I held her, even breaking the gold chain that my mother gave me.
Unlike Andrew, Eileen is not repelled by me. Nor has she ever acted violently toward me, as Elizabeth has. If anything, she has wanted to get closer. The other children came between us, and her distance from me grew as she got older. Now she loves her own children more.
Part of me longs for a final break from all of them. I have fantasized about sending them each a letter: I have decided to leave. None of my children have ever appreciated what I have done for them. Do not try to find me, as that will only raise my blood pressure. Good luck to you all, Your Mommie Dearest.
One afternoon, my husband tried to force a reconciliation between Eileen and me. From the kitchen, I saw them both get out of his car and walk to the front door, and I slipped out by way of the garage, started the Volvo, and began backing down the driveway. When my husband saw me, he ran out to prevent me from leaving, but I swerved around him, reversing clear across our lawn and over the sidewalk to make my escape. He always scolds me and the children whenever we leave the slightest tire mark on the grass bordering our driveway, and I knew that the deep ruts I’d just made, scarring the length of our front yard, would wrench his heart. But it served him right. I don’t like to be forced to do things. I looked into the rearview mirror as I drove away and saw that Eileen had fallen to her knees, her face crumpling.
After this incident, I couldn’t help thinking of the morning I visited Eileen in the hospital after she’d given birth to Isabel. She lay quietly in bed, her plain, delicate features smoothed out, pale and transcendent. It was as though all of what makes a person colorful, bright, and distinct had been taken away from her. All the things that contribute to our vanity and our smallness had dropped away, and what remained was the calm, exhausted body, transfigured through pain.
I decided to make up with Eileen. I told my husband, and he called Eileen and said, “Your mother is going to talk to you now,” before handing me the phone.
“Hi, Mom,” Eileen said, trying to sound normal, though I detected the strain in her voice.
“Hi. How are you and the kids doing?”
“Oh, we’re all fine. The kids miss you and are always asking about you. How are you doing?”
“I’m O.K. Though my friend Wang Peisan is in the hospital.”
“Dad told me. How is she?”
“Not so well.”
“I’m sorry to hear that. Mom, I’m really sorry I didn’t invite her to Christmas dinner. I didn’t know how much it meant to you.”
“That’s O.K. You know me. When I get angry, I can be angry forever.”
“That’s true,” she said with a laugh.
And so we made up. I’ve noticed that Eileen and [REDACTED] are more respectful now and don’t ask as much of me as they once did. They’ve decided to hire a live-in nanny so that I don’t have to babysit more than once or twice a month. The last time my husband and I went out for dinner with them, they picked up the check.
After my reconciliation with Eileen, I visited Wang Peisan at the hospital.
“So you have come to see me,” she said from her bed. She was sharing a room with another patient, who was hidden from view by a blue curtain. “She keeps me awake at night with her moaning,” she said in a voice loud enough for her roommate to hear. “I’m waiting to be transferred. My insurance covers a private room. Isn’t that wonderful? My husband had the foresight to get good insurance. There are some things you should never be cheap about.”
I was glad to see that she was still herself, animated by a sly self-interest. “I wish you had told me you were coming,” she said. “I would have combed my hair and put on some makeup so as not to frighten you.”
“You look fine,” I reassured her. It was a bald lie, but you are supposed to say positive things at the hospital. Wang Peisan was so weak it was a struggle for her to sit up, and I was dismayed to see thick pads strapped to her elbows, most likely to prevent bedsores.
“The first thing I want to do when I get out of here is to go to the salon and get my hair done,” she said.
“I’ll take you,” I promised, and I found myself longing for the day when she would be well enough to vex me. Perhaps, in the end, we need these small daily irritants, a bit of sediment in our mouths, to keep life interesting.
We fell silent, and Wang Peisan gazed into my eyes as though she were reading my thoughts. “Ke lian, yes?” she said. “Pathetic, isn’t it? Pitiful!”
“You’ll grow stronger. Then you can leave this place.”
She smiled sadly. “Why are you so kind to me? Perhaps I amuse you.”
“I am kind because I am your friend.”
She nodded slowly. “Do you know I think it was fate that we met? You are a dear friend to me.”
“Since we’ve met, my dreams have become more vivid, less ordinary,” I confessed. Two nights before, I had dreamed of shopping in a large department store and being handed a flyer announcing that a great white shark was on display in the basement.
“Isn’t it funny how we close our eyes and enter a strange world we’ve made up?” she said. “And when we wake up it’s difficult to express to another person how bright and real it was. I guess that’s what moves me.” Wang Peisan turned toward me, placing her hand beneath her cheek. “So what did you dream?”
I closed my eyes for a moment and then tried to describe to her what I saw. 

