THE YELLOW
By Samantha Hunt
With his mother and father out of town for the weekend, Roy was left to forage for food in their nearly empty refrigerator. Was he physically or mentally unable to go grocery shopping? To order takeout from a restaurant? No, he wasn’t.
Roy nibbled on a raw-onion-and-Cheddar sandwich, but the rattling house unnerved him and the sandwich was too strong. He felt exposed in the kitchen. What made a house rattle? He couldn’t say. He abandoned his meal on the countertop and switched on the living-room TV. He sat through the evening sitcoms, the late news, the late shows, and the start of a movie he’d not seen since 1985, telling himself that the noises he’d heard were cable wires scraping against the siding in the wind. Even if they weren’t.
At forty-two, he was living in his parents’ house again, eating their food, driving their car from job interview to job interview.
“A pity,” his grandmother had decided.
Near two in the morning, sick from so much TV, his grandmother’s pronouncement in his head, Roy riled himself into a fury of determined self-improvement. He spent the early-morning hours in his bedroom tearing down homemade Bevis Frond posters and a paper chain he’d fashioned from gum wrappers. He moved all the furniture—except his bed and his dresser—up to the attic. In the basement, Roy found a half-full can of paint his father had used to mark the curb out front as a no-parking zone. Roy carefully began to paint his walls bright yellow.
He went without sleep. What was sleep to him? And by eleven the next morning his work was done. He sat cross-legged on the floor inhaling heady fumes. Yellow was everywhere. Yellow and calm. Fear and confusion left. Possibility and sunshine became his friends. In the yellow, he felt himself the newborn child of Patti Smith and Jacques Cousteau. Roy rolled a cigarette and visualized foreign, gentler lands: 496e646961, [REDACTED], [REDACTED].
Eventually, late Sunday evening, his parents returned. His father, registering the new color of the walls, asked, “Son, did you turn faggot over the weekend?”
Roy offered no comeback. He held on to the color. He picked a flake of tobacco from his tongue and admired his father’s use of the verb “turn.” Turn was precisely what Roy had done after three days of ripening in silence. He’d turned. He’d fermented into something wonderful and open, something porous and bright yellow.
Susanne’s turning, on the other hand, had been far more subtle. Perhaps she didn’t even realize she had turned, or maybe turning comes easier to women, acclimated as they are to miracles and pregnancies. Of which, by the age of thirty-nine, she’d had three. Roy walked out on his father without answering. He grabbed the car keys from the kitchen table. He drove. And while he drove he tangled with the scan button on the car radio. “Don’t Do Me Like That.” “Don’t Bring Me Down.” “Love Is a Rose.” “Straight Tequila Night.” He liked all those songs, but that didn’t stop him from continuing to seek. There had to be something more—his itchy finger was sure. And there was. “Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain.” The song made him forget that his much younger sister would be getting married next month. He drove, open, porous, and yellow, his tires floating above the asphalt. He drove, threading together seams and streets, all his ideas, until, quite suddenly, the night became rigid. In one moment, there was nothing—no music, no thoughts, just a pure electric shock of adrenaline. Something black and furry had darted out into the road, frozen in Roy’s headlights, and tumbled out of view. Squeals, brakes, and wrong-sounding mechanical thumpings followed. He had hit a dog. Roy had hit someone’s dog.
Pulling off onto the soft shoulder, he felt a certain resistance from the undercarriage. The vehicle and the animal had been joined in a terrible union. He sat without moving. Perhaps it wasn’t a dog. Perhaps it was some other creature, a beast unnamed and unknown. The thought gave him pause. It had been a strange weekend. He sat. Not long but long enough to know that whatever it was was truly dead. There’d be no awful scenes. No watching it limp away into the dark night, no gnashing teeth. He would not have to back the car up and over the creature in an attempt to kill it a second time.
Eventually Roy got out and the night stayed silent.
He circled the vehicle two, three times. There was nothing to be seen. Overhead, black branches cut their silhouettes on the navy sky. Roy crouched and there it was. Just a dog. Simple. Its body had been wedged behind a back wheel. Roy grabbed its tail and yanked the broken thing out from under. Something tore like fabric. The neck was soft and floppy, like a harshly used work shirt. The dog was dead for certain. Roy hoisted the animal into his arms and set out for the nearest driveway. He could see it up ahead. An outdoor floodlight spilled onto the road in a narrow swath, most of the light getting trapped in the yard by a line of tall maples. The dog’s body, not yet cold, warmed Roy and kept his arms from shaking.
Roy rang the bell, but Susanne was vacuuming. He carried the dog around to the side door. Front doors are for holidays. The dog’s brown eye caught the light. It was no holiday. As Roy waited on the stoop, Susanne, with a vacuum hose in hand—her exhausted life—came into view. His knocking grew more desperate. He couldn’t very well leave the carcass on her doorstep. He’d be forced to carry the dog from house to house until someone was courageous enough to claim it.
She started when she saw Roy. It wasn’t a busy street but, rather, the sort where too much wealth kept neighbors from dropping by unannounced.
Earlier, Susanne’s husband had detected a certain ticking in her, a bomb. He’d packed their children into the car and set out for a night of pizza and a double feature at the second-run movie theatre, leaving her alone to explode, splattering the house with a combination of things she’d ingested as a teen-ager, certain films and punk-rock records that confirmed what she’d guessed: one dies alone.
Best to have her family out of the way. Best to have them hidden in a dark cinema when the desire to chop her hair roughly and live on cigarettes surged. These bursts of freedom, while infrequent, were dangerous. Their self-indulgence could tear holes in evenings, marriages, families.
She’d been lost in the roar of the vacuum—a device that had the power to put her under a spell, into a trancelike state from which she could most easily contemplate the nature of the universe, the purpose of love, the purpose of death, and a fantasy she sometimes had of being bound nude to a parking meter in the city.
It was then that she saw Roy. What was he holding? She shut off her vacuum by yanking the plug from the wall. She opened the door.
“Hello.”
“Hello.”
“I’m afraid I’ve killed someone’s dog.”
“Yes,” she confirmed. “That’s Curtains. He belongs to my children.”
“Curtains?”
“It’s an old story.” And then, looking at the animal again, “Oh, dear.” She reached out and took the dog’s body from Roy and, for one moment, like an uninspired actor in the uninspired film her husband and children were just then watching, she brushed the skin of Roy’s forearm. She held his eyes, trying to remember if they’d met before.
“Poor Curtains.”
They had never met.
Roy hoped. Maybe she’d wanted the dog dead for some reason. Maybe she’d grown tired of feeding him or accidentally petting those tumorous lumps that old dogs get.
“I’m sorry.” Roy shook his chin. “He appeared out of nowhere. I didn’t even have an instant to brake. I’m sorry. Let me give you some money for a new dog.” He reached for his wallet. He was broke. “What does a dog cost?” There was sixteen bucks in his wallet.
“Two hundred and fifty dollars,” Susanne said. She carried the dog into the living room.
“Oh.” He fumbled and followed her. Two hundred and fifty seemed like robbery. “Can I write you a check?” He had two hundred and sixty-seven dollars in his bank account. If he wanted, he could go to an A.T.M. tonight and withdraw it all, long before she could cash his check.
Susanne covered Curtains with an afghan that had been draped across the couch. She crouched in front of the dog, shielding her pet from Roy. Death really was mortifying. What a thing for her dog to do—run out in front of a stranger’s car and open himself up. What desperation. He should have come to her, she thought foolishly. There was blood on Roy’s jacket. Blood on her arm, in her hair. Curtains’s insides made pornographically public.
“A check is fine. Make it out to Susanne Martin.”
“Susanne Martin. Certainly.” He found a seat and began to write.
One surprisingly rigid paw stuck out from beneath the blanket. She knew the paw well, dipped in white fur, claws that alternated black, ivory, black, ivory. A piano on her dog’s foot. She felt the dog lose his heat. She felt his body go cold.
As Susanne bent to hold his paw to her cheek, Roy saw that she loved the dog and he knew he wouldn’t go to the A.T.M.
“Oh,” Roy said. “Oh, no. I’m so sorry.” When nervous, he adopted an inflection that was not his own. His voice ratcheted up into a phony British accent, as if British accents were so appropriate, so authoritative that they could make any American dog be not dead. “I’m dreadfully sorry.” There it was. [REDACTED], [REDACTED], done very poorly. He joined her on the floor, wrapping a stiff arm around her shoulders. He stowed the check away in his jacket pocket. “Sh-h-h. There, now. There, now.”
Roy and Susanne sat by the rigid dog. She whimpered. She sounded like a tiny door creaking open. She wept and sniffled, wept and sniffled. Roy studied the wall’s molding, the wall itself, a trace of dust along the molding’s shaped ridge, an electrical outlet. What had he been thinking before the accident? He tapped his free hand against his temple and drew a blank.
Underneath his hand her shoulder felt cushioned in a way that his wasn’t. There was her skin. There was her muscle. There was her bone, her blood and all the blood’s attendant particles keeping her alive, particles whose names he’d never know. They were total strangers except for this dead dog. He thought of the yellow and turned toward Susanne, locating her lips with his own—some way of knowing her. Susanne did not flinch and, after a few slow moments with his mouth resting motionless on hers, he inserted a pointed tongue. She accepted it.
Roy and Susanne lay back on the rug beside the dog’s carcass, beside the coffee table. Beneath the burned odor left by the vacuum, he could smell the dust still in the rug—salt and sand and dried skin from her kids, her husband, her now dead dog. Roy inhaled. And they stayed there locked in a silent trade. It wasn’t a kiss, exactly, but something equally spectacular. The night, for all the species of insects alive in it, barely noticed.
Eventually, time passed and he buried his fingers in the hair at the nape of her neck. He pulled her closer. His other arm found the small of her back and used this time-tested handle to unlock some ancient pattern; their bodies began to move.
My dog died for this bit of living, Susanne thought. She did not consider her husband. She brokered no possible connection between her husband and lying on the floor with a stranger.
Roy’s hands moved to unfasten, unhook, undress their bodies, conducting an urgently time-sensitive experiment. Her face was still damp from crying. In the shock of this unexpected coupling, he pinned her to the floor and she was a bird. He found his way inside and Susanne filled the room with sound, incantations that started with the routine “Oh, yes. God, yes,” and morphed into the unfamiliar “Take it. Take it all,” before winding up at the unnatural “Paint your landscape. Storm. Storm. Storm.” Not sexy, just peculiar. Pleasure remained a far-off cousin to whatever exchange they were having.
At last, his muscles and eyes trembled. A transfer was completed and the charge between them dimmed. A film of sweat developed some guilt, some old wonder. Both Roy and Susanne began to chill. He didn’t look at her. He was unsure what he’d got in the trade, though he knew that it wasn’t inconsequential. Good for him.
I should remove myself, he thought, and was about to when he felt something rough and warm, damp and thick.
Curtains was licking the sweat from his scapula.
With a scream, both man and woman recoiled. He rolled, boot-camp style, a protected ball, in the shelter of a baby grand, from which he eyed the dog with dread. She jumped to her feet and onto the frantic couch.
Curtains had come back from the dead.
The dog raised his brow, wondering why these humans should act so foolishly.
Susanne lifted her hands in surrender. “The dog was dead.”
“The dog was dead,” Roy confirmed. And it was true. They’d seen it and felt it. The dog, moments ago, had been ruined, limp, no more.
“How, Anne?” He used only half her name. Their new physical intimacy had shaved away the Sus. He cradled and rocked himself, a squatting troll: a head, a rounded back, and two feet sticking out from his torso. He looked grotesque underneath the piano.
Curtains licked the thin, pale fur between his legs.
“My dog is alive.”
“But why? Why is your dog alive?”
Susanne scratched her left buttock. “You must have only knocked Curtains unconscious.”
Roy looked from the dog to Susanne. “Then how come you don’t want to touch him, either?”
“Nonsense,” Susanne said, readjusting her position of retreat. “Come here, boy. Here, Curtains.”
The dog looked up from his lick and made his way over to the waiting hand. Susanne held her arm as far out from her body as possible. Curtains rubbed against it and Susanne immediately snapped her hand to her chest as if burned. She covered herself with a fleece blanket. “Back,” she told the confused dog. “Back.” Curtains, as dumb and happy as any non-dead dog, cocked his head and studied the hunkering humans before meandering into the kitchen to see if, in the time he’d been dead, someone had refilled his dish with kibble.
Quickly, Roy crawled out from underneath the piano. “What should we do?”
Susanne nodded. She stood, distancing herself from him. They were not a we. She dressed swiftly. Nodding, nodding, nodding. She tightened a belt around her sweater. “So,” she said, looking into the kitchen where Curtains had gone. “You’ll have to kill it. Again.”
Roy drew his eyes wide and wider. “What? It?”
“We’ve opened some sort of door here.” She knelt in front of Roy, resting her hands on his knees as if they really were lovers. “It can’t stay open. I have a good life.” She pinched the meat of Roy’s thighs. “You have to kill the dog.” 

He closed his eyes. Reasons and excuses assembled themselves. He was dealing with an unhinged person. He’d stumbled into a TV show. The dog had simply been knocked out.
Roy opened his eyes.
“It won’t work. That’s like stuffing a baby back inside its mother. You think I’ll just forget? I won’t forget.”
“Yes,” Susanne said. “You will forget.”
Once, as a girl, Susanne, alone in her grandmother’s empty barn, had heard a voice speaking to her. The voice had said, “Bow at the river,” or, maybe, “Cows at the river.” It didn’t matter what the voice had said, because Susanne, terrorized and unwilling to confront the unexplainable, had suppressed any memory of it. “You’ll forget.”
He put his head in his hands.
“You’ll find some way to explain it. You’ll call me a witch or a crazy person. Turn it into a dream. You’ll forget.” She stood and, searching Roy’s coat, found the check, folded it, and put it in her pocket. “You have to kill him and then you have to leave.”
Roy pulled his fingers through his hair, like a child having a tantrum. “But I don’t believe in magic.” He barely believed in God. He barely believed in chiropractors.
She kept her voice calm. “That’s like not believing in car accidents. Just because you don’t want them to happen doesn’t mean they don’t.” She clucked at him, scolding. “It’s not belief. It’s whether or not you’re going to let magic ruin your life. People pretend the world is ordinary every day.” She held her hips. “Because they have to.”
“Why don’t you kill him?”
“Come on,” she tsk-tsked. “You started this. You kissed me.”
“It wasn’t really a kiss,” Roy said. All he’d done was paint his walls yellow. “And I definitely didn’t raise your dog from the dead.”
“Yeah?” She was leaving the room, matter settled. “Then what did?”
“I don’t know,” he told her, but Susanne, having plugged the vacuum back in, was no longer listening.
From the dark behind her house, he saw the warm glow of her windows, her family returning. He leaned on the shovel.
“Out! Out!” she had said. Once for Roy, once for Curtains. “There’s a shovel in the shed.”
Roy stood in the night undetected, looking in. Her children and her husband gathered around her, relaying the very thin but fantastically absurd plots of the [REDACTED] movies they’d seen. A bank heist and a clean getaway. A love that conquers all. A dog that comes back to life. Her young son’s hands shook, his feet stomped, recalling the wonders. How true they’d been. Her daughter’s head spun. Each world had been real enough to betray her by ending neatly after an hour and a half.
Susanne retracted the vacuum’s cord. Tethered again. And in the dark Roy understood her family’s pact. Work and school, laundry, dinner, the things that happened in their lives were not part of the brightness that she and Roy had glimpsed but were, rather, dull, quite expected, and entirely unastonishing. Nothing strange ever really happened. No, it didn’t.
The weight of the shovel made Roy’s arms burn. He needed to sit down. He needed to get back in his car, start the engine, drive away from here with his finger on the radio’s scan button, looking for the right song, one that might erase Susanne, the dog, and the shovel she’d wanted him to use to brain and bury Curtains in her back yard.
The dog looked up at him, tilting its head a bit to one side, waiting for the blow of the shovel’s blade. “No,” Roy told him.
He would leave soon. He’d drive through the night listening as each song began hot with promise. “More Than a Feeling.” “Don’t Stop Believing.” “Time After Time.” Fine songs. He knew them well. He’d heard them all hundreds of times, as if he’d been driving the [REDACTED] forever, killing any and all things that got in the way. None of the songs would ever make him forget and he told Curtains so. “Scram,” he yelled. “Get out of here!”
Curtains turned and wandered off to pee on some rhododendrons, not at all like an animal running for its life. The dog would be waiting on her doorstep tomorrow morning, gentle, stupid, still undead, still looking for something to eat. In front of her children she’d pretend to forget. She’d hold out her hand to pet the dog’s head and in a while, perhaps a few days or a week, the head would begin to feel like the head of any dog. In the dark it was clear. Susanne sat on the couch, surrounded by her family, while out in the night, partner to the extraordinary, Roy held the shovel. 

