THE TROJAN PRINCE
By Tessa Hadley
It’s an April morning and a young man waits at a black-painted front door on a decent street in Tynemouth. It’s a much more decent street than the one where his home is. Both streets are terraced, but here the scale’s quite different. A curving flight of stone steps climbs to the door, flanked by railings that are also painted black. Dropped behind more railings, there’s a basement area, and rising from down there are the sounds of pans clashing and women’s voices and the steam of cooking—but he’s determinedly not looking down. He fixes his attention on the front door as if willing it to open—he has tugged at the bellpull and heard a distant jangling inside, but doesn’t know if he’ll have the nerve to pull it twice. The year is 1920. This young man has missed the World War; he has closed his mind now even to the thought of the war, which, it seems to him, has devoured everyone’s pity and imagination for too long.
The street is quiet. It’s past the hour when the kind of men who live in these houses leave for their offices and boardrooms. He has chosen the time intentionally, so as to avoid them. But he’s hoping that it’s still early enough for the women to be at home. He has only a vague idea how the women who live here pass their days. The wind is tearing scraps of cloud in a fitfully gleaming sky, and combing through the twigs of the hornbeam trees (the trees are another difference between this street and his), setting them springing and dancing like whips. Last night it rained heavily—he lay awake listening to it in the bed that he shares with his brother—and the stone walls are still dark with wet, though the wind has dried the pavements. Beside the door, an iron implement like the upside-down end of a hoe is set into the stone step; too late, just as the door swings back, he realizes that it must be for scraping the mud off your boots before you go inside the house. He has walked or run down this street a hundred times before and never noticed the boot scrapers or given any thought to their function, because then he was a boy with no interest in going inside. There’s no time now to check whether his boots are dirty.
A maid has opened the door—he knew that would happen and worried that she might be a girl he’d known at school. But she’s a stranger, tall and big-boned, with a smut on her cheek, so he’s able to push past her into the hall, doffing his cap. It’s only as the still atmosphere of the house envelops him that he’s aware of the particular weather of the morning he’s left behind—its touch on his face and its tug at his coat, the urgings of the onset of spring, the twigs glowing russet, swelling into bud.
“Can I speak to Miss Ellen, please?” he says, with the aplomb he has rehearsed at home.
The cessation of the wind is so abrupt that he feels for a moment as if he were deaf; it must be the quiet that makes this house seem so different from his own, because the smells are familiar enough—furniture polish, scalded dishrags, boiling cabbage. The maid is frowning at him sulkily, not knowing if she should have let him in. He guesses that she spends her life afraid of trouble from one side or another.
“Don’t know if she’s at home.”
“I should think she’d like to see me. She’ll be sorry if she misses me. I’m her cousin. I’m going away to sea.”
The maid dithers fatalistically.
“I’ll go and tell Missus. What’s your name?”
“McIlvanney,” he says. “Tell her it’s James McIlvanney.”
“Do you want to wait here, then?”
“Here’s all right.”
She puts out her hand to him and he waits a moment too long, not knowing what she wants. Then, blushing, he gives her his cap and sees a little light of contempt come into her eyes, which are round and hard and wet like pebbles—but it doesn’t matter, he’s got this far. Going up the stairs, she makes a show of stamping her feet heavily, as if she’s actually too weary to climb to the first floor.
He’s only sixteen, despite the man’s overcoat and the new tweed cap. His hair is jet-black and very straight, and his face is composed of strong fine lines, clean and clear and exquisite like his pink-and-white skin; his eyebrows are as well-shaped as a woman’s, his curved lips pressed shut as if he were holding in important news. The jut of his cheekbones and jaw is masculine enough—strained and resilient. His expression is keenly alive with self-interest, which makes him appear blind and alert at the same time. The air in the hall is thick and dim and greenish, because the blinds are all drawn down—as they are in the parlor at home—to keep the light from fading the furniture. It makes him remember floating underwater once, when he dived into the canal and hit his head on an old bedstead someone had dumped there. A clock ticking in the hall is like his own pulse urging him on. He can hear the maid’s voice upstairs, other voices responding, impatient, querulous—he has dropped an interruption into the smooth unfurling of the women’s morning. Without warning, he experiences a slight nausea and dizziness.
He holds his head back warily, defiantly, on his shoulders, so that the furnishings in this house won’t get the better of him: the dado with its raised pattern of diamonds under thick brown paint, the polished wood of the hall stand, the yellow gleams of brass among the shadows—the face of the clock, a rack for letters, a little gong hanging in a frame with a suède-covered mallet balanced across two hooks, a tall pot to hold umbrellas. He doesn’t look down at the pattern of blue and cream tiles underfoot in case he has trodden mud on them. Through an open door he glimpses low chairs fat with stuffing, crouched on a sea of flower-patterned rug. The smell of brushed carpet tickles in his nose. Everything in this house is slick with prosperity, with the labor of servants. In his own home, there’s only a girl who comes in two mornings a week to help his mother with the heavy work.
What James McIlvanney thinks is: I’ll have all this one day.
He doesn’t particularly like it, but he wants it.
He stores it up, so that he knows what to want.
He has no definite plan for how to get it. It wasn’t a plan that brought him here today. Ellen Pearson really is his cousin—second cousin, at least. She belongs to the branch of his family who have done well for themselves; his mother’s uncle, Ellen’s grandfather, made money in 496e646961, then came home to set up a company importing jute. Ellen’s mother is related to the Fenwicks, who own a department store in [REDACTED]. Ellen’s a pale blond girl whom James has seen on a few family occasions but never spoken to, attractive in a sickly kind of way, and shy, though the truth is that when he last saw her, at a family party, he didn’t bother to notice whether she was attractive or not, because he was only a boy, chafing in a prickly wool suit, consumed by the idea of escaping to his cronies out on the street, whose adventures at that point in his life absorbed him wholly. But, since leaving school and getting a proper job, he has begun to open his eyes to the world from this altered perspective, and has found himself interested in Ellen, attributing a kind of mystery to her and her blond languor, to the life he imagines she leads as a privileged only child.
He hasn’t said a word to his mother about coming here.
All he has in mind is that Ellen would be a useful friend to have. He hasn’t followed this through to any idea of paying court to her, or advancing himself in the world that way; he doesn’t like to think about courtship or marrying at all—and he really may be going away to sea at some point soon. His mother wanted him to settle in his job in the office at a local boatyard, where they make the pleasure boats that run up and down the coast. But he has persuaded her to let him sign up for an indentured apprenticeship with the Prince Line, which runs cargoes across the Atlantic to South [REDACTED]—coal out, grain home—and up the western seaboard of [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. He had to borrow money from his grandmother, for the fifty-pound deposit.
There’s someone coming downstairs now. It’s not the maid—he can still hear her yapping. And he knows that it’s not Mrs. Pearson, either, because women that age move noisily, rustling their skirts or clearing their throats. James has his back to the stairs; he’s gazing at the hall stand. He refuses to look around. His neck is stiff with the awareness of subtle, furtive movements behind him—a slithering, a creaking. He thinks it must be Ellen, creeping down to take a look at who he is. Let her look, he thinks. It isn’t a bad feeling. He gives himself up to her looking, with straight shoulders.
“Jimmy Mac,” someone says in a teasing, gloating voice. “What are you doing here?”
Caught out, he spins around to confront whoever it is.
It’s a girl—not Ellen, too dark and too small. She’s grinning, peering out at him from between the bannisters, sitting on the stairs as if she’d come shuffling down them on her backside.
It’s Connie Chappell.
Because he can see only one narrow stripe of her face, it has taken him a moment to recognize her—and also because she’s changed. She’s had her hair chopped off and waved. She seems to be wearing some kind of pink silky pajamas—the last thing he would have expected in this house, and halfway through the morning, too. He is washed through with disapproval, like strong, tarry medicine, furious that Connie has got here before him, spoiling things. He remembers now hearing that Ellen had taken a shine to Connie, that there was talk of Connie moving in with the Pearsons as some kind of companion to their daughter. He must have disregarded this, because he couldn’t take seriously anything to do with Connie. She isn’t even properly related to Ellen—only through his own family, on his father’s side.
Connie is four years older than James, though she doesn’t look it. When he was a baby, apparently, she used to wheel him in a pram. He believes he can dimly remember being pushed across rough grass, standing up at the front of the pram, holding on to the hood with both hands. Didn’t he go flying out when they hit a rock or something? Anyway, he can’t bear to think about it now, at this moment in the Pearsons’ hall. There had been something consecrated about his mission to this house, as if it might mark a kind of turning point for him—but Connie’s presence has punctured that mystery.
“I came to see Ellen,” he says.
“Did you, now? And what’s all this about you going away to sea?”
She is laughing at him, as if she didn’t believe him. When she stands up, hanging on to the bannister rail, she stretches one leg out along it like a dancer, pointing her toes and yawning. He sees that the soles of her bare feet are dirty. She’s like a cat, James thinks. A sloppy little cat. Under the neat-fitting cap of her new hair, her face is intensely familiar—small and precise like a muzzle, freckled and snub-nosed, the brows exclamation points, always slightly raised.
“Come on then,” she says. “If you want to see her. Ellen and me are getting dressed upstairs.”
“Where’s Mrs. Pearson?”
“Oh, somewhere about, I expect.”
Connie is casually indifferent. “You can help us decide what to put on. I know—we’ll blindfold you. We’ll blindfold you with a stocking. Then we’re going out to walk around the shops. You can come out with us. Why aren’t you at work? Are you on holiday? Did you take a holiday just to come and see Ellen?”
James hates the feeling that she knows everything about him. The lace curtains thickly shrouding the window on the stairs suddenly seem stifling—he wants to fight through them, to get to air.
He has sisters, but they are older than he is and both married now. Even when they were at home, they would never have been idling around in their nightclothes at eleven in the morning; they would have been at work for hours already, in the kitchen or turning out the lodgers’ rooms, with their sleeves rolled up and coarse aprons tied over their clothes. He has never been anywhere like Ellen Pearson’s bedroom before. Heavy curtains are still pulled across the windows, and the beds aren’t made. The air is musky, as if the girls have been spraying scent, and there’s a stuffy smell, too, of crumpled sheets and bodies hot from sleep. The water in the basin is scummed with soap. Ellen is standing to look at her reflection where one curtain has been dragged back to let the light in, mirror held up in one hand and a swansdown puff in the other. Motes of her face powder spin in a yellow beam of sunshine. She cries out when James steps into the room, letting the mirror fall onto the thick Turkish carpet, where it doesn’t break. There’s another mirror set in the door of a massive wardrobe, its bevelled edge reflecting darts of light around the papered walls. Ellen is taller and heavier than he remembered, though she is only seventeen, not as old as Connie. Her apricot-colored wrap is trimmed with lace flounces. As James takes her in, the beam of light is extinguished abruptly, and a squall of rain blows against the windowpane.
He would never have come up if he’d known it was their bedroom. He was thinking Connie was going to show him into some sort of upstairs drawing room: who knew how they arranged the rooms in a house like this, with so many to spare?
“Jimmy called to see you,” Connie says, coming in behind him.
Ellen is blushing. She pleads with Connie, “But we’re not ready!”
“I only came to say goodbye,” he says. In his big boots, he’s afraid of stepping on one of the silky scarves and dresses and undergarments that are lying around as if the girls had dropped them wherever they took them off.
There was something significant and teasing in the way that Connie announced him. He wasn’t confident, waiting downstairs, that Ellen would remember who he was. Now the intimation flies at him, as true as an arrow: she not only remembers him; she likes him. She could not have been expecting him to call—and yet he feels now that he has come because the girls conjured him up, talking about him. He’s certain that they’ve talked about him.
“Ready for what?” Connie says. “Anyway, I said we’d blindfold him. That way everything’s decent—he can’t see, he can only guess.”
“Goodbye?” Ellen says anxiously. “Why, where are you going?”
It’s the same each time: although the visits to the Pearson house are his own idea, he feels the girls are drawing him there, as though he were under their spell. After that first time, they insist that he come again, whenever he can—on his afternoons off from work, and on Sundays. When he isn’t with them, he can’t help remembering, though it makes him ashamed, how he sat with his back to the girls in the bedroom while they dressed, sweating in his thick suit, Connie’s white stocking wrapped twice around his eyes and tied behind his head. Ellen hadn’t wanted to agree to the game; it was typical of Connie and her mischief. He could taste the stale-sweetish trace of her foot’s perspiration in the stocking.
Connie reminds him of the girls at school who fussed over him and derided him when he was a pretty child—girls with hard hands and mocking raucous voices, fat floppy bows in their hair. He prefers to think about his growing familiarity with the heavy furniture in the Pearson house, setting him apart from the other boys in the boatyard, as if it already belonged to him. When, on Sundays, James sometimes crosses paths in the house with Ellen’s father, he’s surprised for a moment, as if Mr. Pearson were the usurper in his domain. Mr. Pearson—stooped, unsmiling, his face gray with ulcer pain—always stops to ask after James’s mother. He probably thinks that James is coming there for Connie.
Ellen is better-looking than Connie, really—statuesque and slow and kind. Some days her skin looks doughy, with dimples like dirty fingerprints, but on other days James appreciates the golden ringlets against her white shoulders, the poignant shadows at the neckline of her blouse. She looks like a girl leaning on a classical pillar in a soap advertisement. Beside her, Connie is a little scamp, with her cropped hair and no figure to speak of. Connie wants Ellen to cut her hair, too, and they discuss it for hours. Ellen daren’t—she’s too afraid of her father. (James learns that Mrs. Pearson is nothing to be afraid of; she’s nervous, with puffy pink skin, and reads novels in her room. As long as Mr. Pearson is out of the house the girls have a free hand.) James weighs in against Ellen’s cutting her hair. He’s full of scorn for Connie’s cheap and showy gesture. A woman should have reserves of hair, he thinks, to uncoil at some important moment—although, if he tries to imagine the uncoiling, he shudders and feels clammy. But he admires Ellen’s qualities, her low voice, her clear pronunciation, her skills at the piano, playing selections from light opera. Not that he knows anything about opera.
He tells his mother that he has called to see Ellen Pearson.
“You never did.”
“Guess who I met there?”
He realizes that he has raised the subject just so that he can use Connie’s name in his mouth and spit it out. She is his enemy, he thinks. 

“It was good of the Pearsons to take her in,” his mother says. “Poor motherless kid.”
Connie’s mother was James’s dad’s cousin Rose; she died of a growth inside her, after nine children. James can remember his Auntie Rose smoking while she made bread, the long ash on the end of her cigarette falling into the dough. She was small and skinny like Connie, but very strong—she could knead enough dough at one time to bake eight loaves. “Gives the bread a bit of a flavor,” she said to him, as if everything were a joke. The whole tribe of McIlvanneys are feckless, his mother says.
The two girls pet James and tease him, as if he were a pretty, comical doll. When he takes them out on the street, one on each arm, done up in their bell dresses and tunic suits, their tam-o’-shanters pulled at jaunty angles, everyone looks at them. Sometimes they catch the electric train into [REDACTED] to walk around. They talk across him, discussing clothes—“a blouse of violet georgette with beadwork . . . a sand-colored cashmere frock with a tiered chiffon collar . . . a three-piece outfit in rose-and-blue tricot silk.” It’s like listening to the sailors gibbering in their foreign languages. James has to keep squinting and staring ahead—looking out for where they’re going, dodging the trams and broken pavings and bicycles and horse muck—so as not to be drawn into the talk and made ridiculous. He imagines that the girls are water swirling around him while he tries to stand up straight.
There’s a delay with his travelling down to Dartmouth to take up his apprenticeship. He needs another fifty pounds to buy his seagoing outfit. Connie says that she doesn’t believe he’s actually going, but he doesn’t deign to show her his signed papers. He sees that Ellen suffers when he talks about how he wants to get away from [REDACTED] and see the world. They take a picnic to Heaton Park and she brings a hamper with compartments for all the food and utensils, blue leather straps with little buckles holding the cups and forks and bottle opener in place. James carries it along proudly. The earth under the trees is springy leaf mold, and flowers seem to hover like a blue mist at the level of his calves. He’s giddy for a moment, wading into the blue, treading down the fleshy stems of the flowers under his boots. The girls can’t believe that he hasn’t heard of bluebells or ever noticed them before. James is teetotal, but the girls drink wine and he’s aware of their two personalities changing and loosening under its influence. They laugh and squeal more loudly, showing off. Connie likes to remind him that she’s a grownup woman and he’s only a boy; she exchanges sly glances with Ellen and claims that there are things he doesn’t understand. They pretend that they’re tired—they make him lie down, then they rest their heads against his jacket, one on either side. While they close their eyes, he keeps very still, watching the sky above the treetops, the clouds drifting past.
Ellen’s hair seems to give off a faint smell that he doesn’t like—it’s naphthalene from mothballs. He can tell that she’s not really asleep by the way she holds her head so tense and awkward against his ribs. Connie is mumbling and nuzzling into his breast, dribbling, until he pushes her off and she rolls over with her back to him, in a knot with her knees drawn up. At his Auntie Rose’s, when they were kids, he and his brothers were put to sleep in Connie’s bedroom once or twice. He remembers Connie in her vest and knickers, her skinny knees making a tent under the sheet, remembers her getting out of bed to use the shared chamber pot. He shores up these memories against her now. Something about the sight of the treetops brings back, like a strong stimulus rushing along his veins, things he has put out of his mind—adventures with his gang of mates, yelling and fighting and running, crashing through brambles, pushing on until his heart beat as if it were bursting out of his chest. Now he mustn’t move, with Ellen’s head against him.
After a while, Ellen sits up, relieved, and she and James have a cigarette. She finds it funny, the way he smokes, nursing the cigarette with the tip in his palm, the end between his thumb and forefinger, drawing the smoke through his fist like the men on the docks. For once, James isn’t afraid that Ellen thinks he’s common. At this moment in the park, for some reason, the docks are something to impress her with—he doesn’t even remind her that he’s not one of those men, that he works in an office.
“You’re smoking it down to the nub,” he explains. “So’s not to waste any, and so the foreman can’t see.”
Ellen tries it. It makes him laugh to see her bending her blond head over the cigarette, coughing when the smoke goes up her nose. Then James pretends to smoke the way she does, waving the cigarette about with his little finger crooked. He wants to tell her all about himself, his future. He feels how fascinating he is to her—it’s as if she were attached to him by some glistening thread, which he can tug this way and that, and she’ll turn her head, with its coil of heavy hair, to attend to whatever he shows her. He’s aware of his own body, slim and hard beneath the dense cloth of his dark suit. It begins to fascinate him, too, this power that belongs to his looks, to his nature. But just then Connie wakes up. There are bits of leaf mold pressed into her cheek. She’s groggy and bleary. She lies looking up at them balefully, as if she’d caught them out. Her mouth is twisted into an expression like a disgusted cat’s. Her teeth are blue from the wine.
He can’t talk properly to Ellen while Connie’s looking.
He’s glad afterward that he didn’t talk about his father. He could have made a fool of himself: his brother Arthur says that Pa got the story out of a book. Connie probably thinks that, too. But James has loved the story since he was a little boy. His pa was missing at sea before the war, and when he came back he said he’d been captured by natives in [REDACTED], and that they’d made a god of him, dressing him in animal skins and drumming and dancing around him, sacrificing to him. When he escaped, he got away with only a monkey and a pocket full of precious stones—their mother has a ruby made into a ring, with a claw setting. His story got into the papers, with a photograph of him with the monkey (which he sold later) on his shoulder. James’s mother still keeps those papers in a drawer, though after he came back Pa wasn’t often in the house. She’d had to take in lodgers when they thought he was drowned, so there wasn’t room. No one even told James till weeks afterward that his father had died—of t.b. in the poor hospital—so he missed the funeral. Arthur and his mother and sisters knew about it; they didn’t go because they didn’t want to.
“Why would anyone make a god of him?” Arthur says with contempt.
“What about the rubies?”
“It’s not a ruby, it’s a garnet. One garnet. I expect he won it cheating at cards. Or stole it.”
Arthur’s the clever one, apprenticed to a draftsman. James keeps his mouth shut; he never wants to appear a fool in front of Arthur. But, stubbornly, he persists in believing that such transformations as happened to his father are possible somewhere. Once he’s out of his apprenticeship, he’ll present himself for examination at the Nellist Nautical Academy, in [REDACTED]. He wants to become a master mariner, and have a ship of his own. (His timing’s bad. By the time he does get his master’s certificate, trade for the Merchant Navy will have slumped, and English rivers will be choked with tramp steamers requiring long-term berths.)
In the summer, the girls go to Whitley Bay for a week, and James joins them there on his day off. He takes tea with them at the Park Hotel, where they have rooms, paid for by Mr. Pearson; the ices are served in silver-plate dishes at a glass-topped table in the conservatory, while a trio plays music. Connie spoons hers up demurely, looking as though she’d been doing this all her life. She uses the tongs to pick out sugar lumps for James, as if he were a kid on holiday, until he tells her to leave off. Afterward, they all go up to Ellen’s room because Ellen wants to show James some souvenirs of a couple of pals of hers who were killed in the war. The room is crowded and snug, with an armchair covered in pink silk, a pink silk eiderdown, fringed lampshades. Ellen brings out the friends’ photographs and the postcards they wrote, blacked out with ink where they were censored. She even has a lock of hair from one of them, Bunny, which she keeps in a book of poetry he gave her. Ellen’s eyes well up with tears—real tears, so that her nose gets red and her mouth twists into an ugly shape. She has had her hair cut now, and the new style doesn’t suit her head the way it suits Connie’s.
James pretends to be angry that he was too young to fight and do his bit, but really the faces in those photographs are too quenched and completed—he’s tired of them. Arthur tried to enlist, but they turned him down because of his varicose veins. Two of Connie’s brothers were with the Tyneside Irish at the [REDACTED], but she never cared for them much; she only wrinkles her nose when Ellen kindly tries to include them in her sorrowing. Anyway, they both came back, and they’ve been boozing and fighting their way around the docks ever since.
“Let’s go for a swim,” Connie says. “Let’s walk down in our swimsuits.”
“You can’t do that,” James says.
“We’ve done it every day. No one cares.”
“It is Sunday,” Ellen says warily.
The idea of the two of them flaunting themselves in the public street fills James with a boiling rage that somehow has to do with the dead soldiers. He thinks that Connie is unpatriotic, shameless.
“I wouldn’t allow any wife of mine to go parading around with nothing on in front of everybody,” he says hotly.
Connie is delighted. “ ‘Allow,’ Jimmy Mac? You won’t ‘allow’ it? Who d’you think you are, King of the Hottentots or something?”
The weather’s changing anyway, and Ellen decides that it’s too chilly for the swimsuits. They go and walk on the front and have their photograph taken sitting on an upturned boat, then struggle across the pebbles in the sea wind, the girls clinging to James, Ellen’s beret blowing away and bowling off down the beach, James running like mad after it. He feels excitedly that they’re all on the brink of something new, an entirely new way of living, apart from their parents. Anything could happen. They’re all three laughing, Ellen, too; she has forgotten to be mournful and dreamy, despite her dead friends. When he snatches up her beret, she comes running after him, full tilt into him, almost knocking him over, so that he has to catch her to save her from falling. For a moment they’re staggering together; she’s warm in his arms, thanking him in breathless, gasping sentences, admiring how fast he runs. He doesn’t let go. He kisses her beside her ear, a sort of kiss, though he hasn’t kissed anyone since he was a baby. He can smell whatever it is that she puts on her hair. Over her shoulder he can see Connie pretending not to see them, crouching down to poke at something she’s found among the pebbles.
To his surprise, in the evening Connie comes back with him on the train to [REDACTED]. She says she has to visit her dad, who isn’t well. (“Lungs,” she says shortly when he asks what’s wrong.) The two of them mostly sit in silence. Their mood is flat; the sea air has taken it out of them. Without Ellen, they are returned to all the ordinary things they know of each other. When Connie closes her eyes, the purplish-red lids seem unnaturally large below her neat, definite eyebrows; her face is more naked than when her eyes are open and vigilant. She asks about his work at the boatyard, and he makes it sound more important than it is. He says he’s responsible for ordering the timbers and fittings, whereas in reality he’s just answering the telephone and running errands.
“Ellen likes you,” Connie says. “You could get a job with her dad’s firm.”
James frowns suspiciously, but he doesn’t think she’s teasing. He reminds her that he’s going away.
“Oh, you and your old running away to sea. I don’t know why your heart’s so set on getting yourself drowned.”
It’s true that James was taken aback by the sight of the churning, pounding sea on the beach this afternoon, as if he’d somehow left it out of his calculations. He sees the sea in the docks every day, but that’s different—still and filthy.
“I won’t drown,” he says sturdily. “I’m lucky.”
“Ellen’s a nice girl. You could have a good life here.”
But he’s only just seventeen—it’s too soon for him to think of marriage. Girls are always wanting to talk about weddings. There’s no one else in their compartment; the little train dawdles through the evening rain. “Look what I found on the beach,” Connie says, fishing in the little purse she carries. “Close your eyes. Open your hand.”
She used to give him sweets like this when they were children.
He closes his fingers around it. It’s nothing much—just a bit of sea-washed glass, smooth to the touch, a frosted blue. She tells him to keep it safe when he goes away, says that it’s her luck added onto his.
The Trojan Prince, carrying a general cargo of manufactured goods and foodstuffs, goes aground on rocks off the west coast of [REDACTED], one evening of storm and fog in February, 1923. Two men row heroically to shore, running a line from the davits of the trapped lifeboat, making it fast around a tree when they reach land. One by one, the crew crosses to safety, the Captain last, hand over hand along the rope. Clinging to that rope, sometimes the men are dangling fifteen feet above the waves; sometimes they’re plunged fifteen feet deep beneath. The wind screams. Black walls of water pick up a ghostly illumination from the swirling snowflakes.
When it’s his turn, apprentice James McIlvanney can’t get rid of the idea that everything is happening in a story—to someone else whose role he seems to be carrying off convincingly. To his relief, it turns out that this someone is not a coward: he’s resourceful and determined and strong enough. Here he is, swinging above the terrible sucking water, above certain death if he falls in. There’s a rhythm to it—if you let the rhythm take you, then you know how to let go of the soaking slippery rope with one hand, twisting and lunging your body forward in midair, then clapping your hand on the rope again, farther along. He learned this when he was a boy climbing trees with his mates. He’s hanging on for dear life. There ought to be somebody to see it. Then he’s plunged under the water and his lungs are bursting. He loses his left plimsoll in the crossing, also the bit of blue glass that Connie Chappell gave him.
Somehow they all hang on. It’s a wonder that there is no loss of life among the forty-two crewmen. But the ship can’t be saved—it breaks up on the rocks over the next few days while they wait for rescue. Where they have got ashore is an uninhabited outcrop west of Vancouver Island, covered in scrub and stunted trees. They make a fire and boil hot water to drink by melting the snow. The wireless operator didn’t manage to signal their position before the wreck, and they can’t find anywhere now to launch a distress rocket. The next day, when the storm subsides, the men go back on board to rescue what supplies and foodstuffs they can—mostly canned fruit. James finds a spare black boot among the clothes they bring. Some of the men break into the bonded store, to get at the spirits.
The Captain sits apart from the rest of them, inconsolable at the loss of his ship. No one takes any notice of the four apprentice boys. James has time to think about the enormity of the task he has undertaken: acquiring the necessary knowledge to navigate the ocean using the stars. He makes up his mind to draft a table of all the subjects he needs to know, setting out the period of time he will dedicate to each. He resolves to adhere to this timetable even while he’s in port, instead of going ashore with his shipmates.
James imagines telling all this to Connie when he gets home.
He’s sorry that he lost the little token she gave him, which he kept in his pocket through all the first hard months of his apprenticeship at Dartmouth, but it doesn’t matter. She won’t care—it was only a bit of glass.
On the third day they’re spotted by Japanese fishermen, who alert the Bamfield lifeboat. Then they’re taken by cutter to [REDACTED], and after that across [REDACTED] by train to St. John, in New Brunswick. From St. John, James sends a postcard to Connie, telling her that he’s all right. On board the Royal Mail steamer that takes them home, the officers and apprentices travel first class; the shipwreck has made them famous. Lady Furness, who is a patron of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, helps James read the menu, which is written in French, and organizes the apprentices in a tableau—“Survivors”—to entertain the other passengers. They sing “Eternal Father Strong to Save.”
When they dock at Liverpool, Connie is waiting for him.
He knows he ought to marry Ellen Pearson and get a house full of furniture.
But he can’t. He won’t.  

