YOUNGTHING
By Nuruddin Farah

A Yankee cap- and Ray-Ban-wearing boy of indeterminate age gets out of a car that has just stopped. He climbs out gingerly, one foot at a time, like a spider creeping up a crevice. Then he retrieves a carryall from the trunk of the car without help from the two men sitting in the front. The men are old army hands, and although they haven’t said anything to him, he knows that they do not think highly of his lot, the new conscripts drafted into the Shabaab-led insurgency.
He slings the carryall over his shoulder, nodding his thanks to the men in the vehicle. They look away with obvious disdain; they do not wish to acknowledge his gratitude. He smiles with youthful bravura, betraying none of his trepidation. He does not want to fail; he cannot afford to fail. He is aware of the huge difference between martyring oneself and making a blunder of things and getting oneself killed. Of course, he does not wish to die, not unless he has fulfilled his dream.
He is small in stature, large in ambition. On his first day as a draftee into Shabaab, the instructor, upset with him, had pulled him up by the scruff of his neck, shouting in Somali “Waxyahow yar!”—“You young thing!” The sobriquet stuck, and he answers to it now. He has had no education to speak of, yet he feels he is rich in heavenly vision. The car reverses and he moves forward on the dirt road, his breathing heavy under the load he carries.
It is hot, and just before noon he meets a woman in a body tent going in the opposite direction. The woman takes an interest in him: a small-boned, four-and-a-half-foot-tall figure—a dwarf, she thinks at first—hoisting a carryall bigger and heavier than he is. She watches him in silence as he puts the carryall down on the ground and sighs with relief. She waits for him to remove his Ray-Bans and reveal his hard eyes before she will consider peeling off her face veil or entertaining any question from him.
“My name is Cambara,” she says. “What’s yours?”
“They call me YoungThing,” he says. Then, with a slight stutter, he asks her to tell him “the way to the Qiblah.”
She takes her time. He must be mistaking the Qiblah—the Arabic term for the direction that a praying Muslim faces—for north, she thinks. She wonders if he is a grown man with the voice of a boy, or a boy in the body of a man. They stand on the dirt road, in East Wardhiigley, a run-down district of Mogadishu, sizing each other up. Cambara is on her way to the Bakaaraha Market, and as she studies YoungThing she wonders whether he is passing himself off as someone he is not, just as she puts on the body tent before she leaves the house as part of her disguise, like a theatre prop. Somali women, who never used to wear veils, resorted to them when the strife began, in 1991. They felt safer from sexual harassment by armed youths. But lately, ever since the Islamic Courts Union took control of Mogadishu, expanding their rule of Sharia law, veiling has become de rigueur. Women are punished if they put on trousers or the less restrictive dresses that were common before the civil war.
His hair is the color of ash and is cursed with kinks that no comb can smooth out. From the little she has heard so far, his voice has not broken. Yet his face crawls with the deep furrows she associates with the hardened features of a herdsman from the central region, where all of [REDACTED]’s recent political instabilities have originated. Shabaab, the military wing of the Islamic Courts Union, has been trying to terrorize the residents of the city into submission, and it appears to have succeeded to a degree. She assumes that he is one of the Shabaab conscripts and suspects that he has been charged with “consecrating”—or, rather, “confiscating”—a house in the neighborhood from which he and his colleagues will launch their attacks on their enemy targets. Cambara points south, sending him in the wrong direction, well away from the northeast, where she lives.
YoungThing lifts his carryall and walks in the direction the woman has showed him. He shifts the position of his load from one shoulder to another, breathing loudly through his nose, and occasionally taking a break. He plays at being tougher than he is; he tries to tread lightly, even if it is obvious that his attempt is a sham—he can’t take two steps without faltering. Hampered by the weight he has to bear, he can no longer remember the details of the instructions he was given. No doubt he feels lucky to have been chosen for this delicate assignment cloaked in secrecy, his first mission. He will do anything to impress the commanders of the cell of which he is now a bona-fide member. This brings a smile to his face, and briefly injects a fresh energy in his gait.
He loses his balance as he recalls picking up the carryall earlier that day. He had been sent to see a heavily bearded man known by the nom de guerre Garweyne—BigBeard. BigBeard manages one of the largest computer shops in the Bakaaraha Market, the epicenter of the resistance—a sanctuary from within whose labyrinthine warrens the insurrectionists initiate frequent offensives. The market complex confuses anyone unfamiliar with its numerous dead ends bounded by shacks and stalls that take half a day to construct and only a couple of hours to dismantle.
In the carryall, BigBeard has put roadside mines, grenades, and other explosive devices—small arms meant to make holes in airplane fuselages in the event of an Ethiopian raid, YoungThing assumes. In truth, BigBeard shared little intelligence with him directly, and YoungThing knows that it is not his place to ask questions. He can’t give in to curiosity, since any departure from his mandate will earn him severe punishment. YoungThing understands this much: he is the advance member of a commando unit preparing the ground so that Shabaab can respond immediately to an Ethiopian invasion of Mogadishu. He is an explosives trainee, but his job today is to consecrate a safe house. The contingent to whom he belongs is composed of a select coterie of fighters sharing a central command, which consists of two men.
One has the nom de guerre Dableh—FootSoldier. Feared by those who know him, the soft-spoken FootSoldier was a colonel in the defunct National Army. In 1991, he was the commander of the largest weapons stockpile in the country, a position to which the former dictator had appointed him. After the civil war began, the colonel changed sides and gave the warlord StrongmanSouth unfettered access to the arms cache, thus arming his ragtag clan militia and enabling them to run the head of state out of the city. When StrongmanSouth died, the colonel switched his allegiance to the Courts, aiding in their final triumph over the warlords, in 2006. Now, a few months on, he is contributing his military expertise to the plan to invade Baidoa, the seat of the weak Transitional Federal Government, and preparing for a possible Ethiopian attack in support of the government.
The second man in the command structure bears the nom de guerre Al-Xaqq, meaning the Truth, a term with divine attributes, as it is one of Allah’s ninety-nine names. A modest man, Al-Xaqq gives a more temporal meaning to his name and prefers to be addressed as TruthTeller. He is not only an explosives genius but also a member of the high order of the Courts, a most learned man, with expertise in man management. He takes pride in his formidable ability to identify possible suicide bombers, with whom he works very closely. He sleeps and eats with them to create intimacy before they carry out a mission, and subjects them to unpleasant ordeals to test their perseverance. At times, he is the only one privy to the details of a sortie, because he designs them to suit the martyr he has handpicked. A few months ago, after YoungThing failed to make the grade as a suicide bomber, TruthTeller suggested he train in the explosives trade and seconded him to FootSoldier’s unit.
YoungThing knows the protocol: BigBeard will have sent a text message to both FootSoldier and TruthTeller, confirming that YoungThing has picked up the carryall. Special events require special rituals, which are repeated many times over—each time an insurgent receives a cache of arms or a wad of cash from the men leading the insurrection.
Exhausted from lugging the carryall, YoungThing takes a long break, doubtful that he is on course. According to his driver, it should have been no distance at all to the house. But either he has been going round and round in circles or he was misled by the woman in the body tent. He senses that he won’t be on schedule. He quickens his pace, turns left, then right, and then right again. He happens upon two men conversing, and believes that they must be the two men sympathetic to Shabaab who are supposed to give him further directions. The men do not pay him any mind at first, even though he stands close by. It seems to YoungThing that they cannot decide what to make of him. Then he remembers the agreed-upon code. In the rehearsed voice of an actor reciting his lines, he asks, “Will one of you please tell me which way is north?”
That the two men do not exactly match the descriptions given to him by his instructors does not seem to worry YoungThing. Hungry, he is lackadaisical about the details to which he should attend. The older of the men is slim, very dark, and handsome, with intelligent eyes; he is in a sarong. His younger, stockier companion is in Bedouin livery.
The liveried man, his teeth stained brown, is the first to speak. He turns to his companion, and, with the characteristic flourish with which a highly literate man talks down to the untaught, says, “This young thing wants to know the way north.”
The older man replies, “What makes you think that he wants to know which way is north when what he wants to know is the direction of the Qiblah?”
YoungThing can no longer remember which stranger, or on what street corner, he was supposed to ask for directions, using the code word Qiblah. From the tone of the older man’s voice, he suspects they are leading him on. A longer look at them throws him into a further muddle. The liveried man is behaving curiously, as if he wanted to reach out and open the carryall. Then, as if to prove his superior knowledge to the older man, he creates more uncertainty in YoungThing’s mind. He says, “Does the young man think that the way north always points the way to the Qiblah?”
Now doubts stir in the older man’s eyes, and his gaze, too, focusses on the carryall. He tells YoungThing to go back the way he came until he finds a big house with a green gate bearing the freshly painted inscription Allahu Akbar in blood red. YoungThing is not sure if the description of the house with a green gate fits the instructions he has received. He does not recall anyone mentioning an inscription of Allahu Akbar in red paint.
“How far is the house with the inscription?”
The older man replies, “It is a hundred and fifty paces to the four-way road. Then you turn right, and right again. That’s the way north, toward the Qiblah, toward [REDACTED], the correct way. You can’t miss the green gate or the inscription in blood red. That’s the house you want.”
YoungThing is barely out of earshot when the liveried man bursts into derisory laughter, amused at the thought that they have sent the boy to the wrong property, which belongs to a business adversary of the older man’s. He is out of the country and has been renting it to a family with a questionable political history, who hail from a rival clan to the liveried man’s. “Two birds with one stone,” he says.
As YoungThing searches for the house with the green gate and the inscription, he blames the frailty of his memory on the fact that he has eaten no breakfast and that a young thing like him can’t comprehend the intricate political games adults play. He suspects that he is being used. Everything is a muddle. All at once, though, he finds the front gate with the inscription and he forgets his doubts. He walks past it and then takes a left turn. He wants the back gate, as per the directive. Here is a high fence, which he must scale.
His heartbeat quickening, he sends a one-word text message informing his minder that he is at the back gate, and he receives a reply encouraging him to gain entry right away. He opens the carryall and takes out a light machine gun and a belt strung with bullets. He slings the collapsible gun over his shoulder, girdles the belt around his waist, and throws the carryall over a low part of the fence, then waits for a few minutes.
YoungThing wishes himself good luck. As light-footed as a young dik-dik, he runs at the fence, and shimmies up and over. He drops down on the other side with a quiet thud and remains in a crouch for a minute or so, his gun poised the way he has seen it done in movies.
An untended garden stretches before him, the shrubs low and scraggly, the trees stunted, and the wall of the house crawling with vines. He moves stealthily forward, as silent as the leopards in stories he has heard. He is certain his instructors at the madrassa would be pleased with him, content that his brief training has turned him into a cadet ready to martyr himself in the service of the insurgency. He pauses for a startled fraction of a second when he picks out the sound of movement somewhere nearby. With purposeful speed, he retrieves the carryall and stands firm and unafraid behind the low shrubs—there are benefits to being of small size, after all, he thinks. But now he comes upon a shorter fence, of which no one has spoken. It goes to show, he tells himself, that even Shabaab’s intelligence gatherers are fallible. Still, he doesn’t look back, thinking that that is the way of doom. Besides, there is no place for fear in a martyr. He’ll use the gun, shoot and kill, if there is need.
He backs up three paces, breathing in and out quickly until he feels a burning sensation in his lungs. Having omitted mention of the second fence, the men may have missed something of a trickier nature; he must be ready for all eventualities. Unless, of course, the omission was deliberate, meant to test his mettle. He remembers his minder impressing on him the importance of not using his weapon unless it is imperative or in self-defense; and of using the silencer if he does have to shoot.
One nervous move follows another. He throws the carryall over the fence. He waits for a few minutes, then runs at it, vaults over, and, landing, gathers himself into a tight ball—he’s learned this from watching videos on a jihadi Web site. In one video, the instructors encouraged young jihadis to retain the scalps of high-profile targets as trophies. YoungThing is uncertain that he will ever want to hang on to the head of a man he has killed. In fact, there is no chance in hell that he will want to do so, and, in any case, he has no place to conceal a dead head; he has no home he can call his own.
Now he happens upon a second discrepancy in the directives given to him: he finds a half-open window, but it appears to lead not into a bathroom, as noted, but into what looks like a kitchen.
He hides behind a huge tree with a trunk as big as a baobab’s. He is as still as a worshipper waiting for the imam to resume his prostrations. Then, committing himself fully to every move he makes, like a jihadi leading the onslaught on the enemy from the front, he gains the back porch in two swift, long strides.
He scans the area for evidence of habitation: the telltale presence of a wicker chair someone has brought out to sit in; a cat curled up in purring slumber; clothes drying on a washing line.
He enters the property by the kitchen window, squeezing himself through—thank God he is small and as agile as a cat on the prowl. Of course, no instructions can prepare one for every contingency. There are decisions one must make on the job, without help. As far as he can tell, all is quiet inside. He walks about the house a little, feeling triumphant, then comes out to retrieve the carryall and take it back indoors. He makes a phone call to tell his minder that he is in the house and that it is safe.
His minder asks him to describe the outside of the house he has “consecrated.” In fact, he asks him several times to repeat how he got there. At first, YoungThing puts this down to a bad telephone connection. Then he begins to doubt whether he has gone to the right property.
He ends the call and embarks on a thorough reconnoitring, something he should have done first. He walks up the stairs, and goes into the bedrooms. To his dismay, there is evidence of life. The rooms feel lived-in: drawers ajar from recent use, socks black with dirt, a pair of underwear still damp from wear. He is in the wrong house, he thinks again. But what can he do about it?
The refrigerator in the kitchen is buzzing with life. He opens it and, seeing plastic containers full of last night’s leftovers, he feels hungry and angry, too. On the one hand, he hasn’t had his fill of meat for a long time and is tempted to stuff himself with good food, as if it were his last meal; on the other, he wishes he hadn’t already made the phone call.
Dhoorre, wearing a dressing gown and, under it, a pair of pajamas and slippers, wakes from an uncomfortable sleep on a garden bench.
It takes him a while to remember that he came out to the porch to have a closer look at a gorgeous bird, with an immense beak and a mixture of colorful plumes. Then a gust of wind shut the door and he couldn’t get back in. The bird gone, he walked around the unkempt garden where the trees, their bark like peeling-off skin, are emaciated from neglect. He feared that he might come up against city riffraff camping there, or someone fleeing the fighting, which has been ferocious lately. Property, after all, does not mean what it used to mean. He knows what he is talking about. He lived in this city, and owned several houses, some for rent. He was once an important man in Mogadishu. Today he is a man without property, living in a house that his son is renting.
With no book to read and no one to talk to, he fell asleep on the garden bench. Now his bones are sore and the sciatica in his legs is extreme. He remembers he was having a sweet dream, in which he and a childhood friend were watching one of his favorite Italian movies, Vittorio De Sica’s “Shoeshine.” He recalls the mesmerizing beauty of the camerawork as it captured the two boys riding a horse through 4974616c79. Two boys who had been living in innocence until tragedy struck. There is no innocence in this city. After all, every resident of this city is guilty, even if no one admits to being a culprit.
He gets up to his full height, yawns leisurely, stretching first his arms, then his legs until he feels he has overdone the stretching. For a man his age, he is blessed with a sharp mind, but he boasts a body as bent as the young branch of a eucalyptus tree. He feels the belt of his dressing gown loosening; in an instant, he’ll be almost naked. Not that it matters—he presumes he is alone and his son, his daughter-in-law, his brood of grandchildren, and the maid are all out. It will amuse them to find him in the garden, unshaven, unwashed, in his pajamas and his dressing gown.


Suddenly his heart beats faster; he hears sounds from inside the house and realizes that this can only mean danger. He debates what he should do. He is on the verge of walking around the house to find out if there is a way of entering through a back window, when the front door opens. Out comes a young thing bearing a gun bigger than himself. The old man and the boy with the gun size each other up. Dhoorre thinks, What if he reacts as if the boy were holding a toy gun? What if he tells himself, even though this may not be the case, that the young thing does not know how to shoot and can’t pose much of a threat?
He asks, “What have you been doing inside?” He speaks the way one might to a mischievous grandchild.
The boy says, “What are you doing outside?”
Looking at the two of them and listening to them, you would not be able to tell who is the guest and who the host—the boy standing guard at the entrance to the house or the old man, befuddled and amused. Befuddled, because he can’t figure out what to do; amused, because he can’t imagine such a young thing frightening him. However, there is uncertainty in Dhoorre’s demeanor when the boy says, “Answer my question.”
Dhoorre tells himself that the boy is putting on a brave face, because he has a gun and this endows him with the hollow bravado of a coward. Is the boy the type who will beg for mercy when things turn nasty?
Hardness enters the boy’s voice. “Answer before I lose my patience, old man. What are you doing outside, in near rags, in the garden?”
Dhoorre replies, “The wind locked me out, pushing the door shut behind me when I came out to enjoy a bit of fresh air outside, in the garden, and I couldn’t get back in, so I napped on the bench. There.” He points at the bench, his voice laced with a genuine tremor.
The boy is thinking, What if he is wrong about the old man, whom he first imagined to be a drifter with nothing more than the rags he has been lent by a kinsman? A typical tramp, come off the streets without his begging bowl, maneuvering his way in.
“The wind, eh?”
“That’s right, the wind.”
The boy is not convinced.
“And your clothes, where are your clothes?”
“Inside.”
YoungThing considers his next move, and the implications if it does turn out that the old man lives in the house. He stares at the man, wondering how he can make him disappear before the advance team arrives. He could act like a trained insurgent—shoot first and explain later that he found this worthless hobo in the garden, insisting that he lived here. But the option of shooting the old man does not appeal to the boy. Yet how will he explain himself to the leader of the cell when he shows up?
The old man is saying, “My name is Dhoorre,” and his outstretched hand waits, ready to shake the boy’s. When the boy doesn’t react, Dhoorre says, “At least tell me your name.”
Then he takes one speedy step closer toward the boy and another step closer to the door. The muscles of the boy’s neck stiffen, his jaw goes taut, his whole attitude becomes more threatening. He raises his gas-operated AK-47 and presses a selector switch in the weapon, turning it fully automatic. This action gives him the composure of a boxer who has just won a K.O. in the second round.
“I wouldn’t act the fool if I were you,” the boy says. “It is at your peril that you take me for a lamebrain. You make one foolish move, you are dead.”
Fresh worries congregate in Dhoorre’s head, where they huddle together, like a clutch of poorly clad men suddenly exposed to unseasonable frost. This is the closest Dhoorre has been to danger in his seventy-eight years. His hand runs over his head, smoothing what hair there is, a head as bereft of hair as it is of new ideas. How can he bring his peacemaking pleas to bear on a young mind that has known only violence? He moves nearer to the boy, no longer afraid.
“Go ahead,” he says. “See if I care. Shoot.”
“I won’t shoot unless I have to,” the boy says.
They embark on a choreographed lurching dance.
“What’s the matter?” Dhoorre challenges.
“One wrong move and you’re dead.”
In their gyrations for more favorable positions, Dhoorre now has his back to the door. All he has to do is move a step back and he’ll be inside the house, the boy outside. But to what end?
“Why are you here, armed?”
“I am not authorized to tell you.”
The word “authorized” coming out of such a small thing gives Dhoorre a jolt. Perhaps this is one of the boys he’s heard about—the new order of youths trained for a higher cause, who, even though they receive their instructions from earthlings, ascribe their actions to divine inspiration. He has read about boys such as this, whom Shabaab has kidnapped and then trained as suicide bombers, boys and a few girls who see themselves as martyrs beholden to high-principled ideals. But what can this boy want? Or, rather, what can his superiors want? And why here and why him and his family? He must disabuse the boy of the notion that he, Dhoorre, harbors any resentment toward his Islamist ideals; it is only that he privileges dialogue, prioritizes peace.
“I am not an enemy to your cause,” Dhoorre says.
Their eyes meet, the boy’s glance anxious in its desire to make sense of the old man’s sudden friendliness. Dhoorre’s gaze takes on a more incisive shrewdness, his bearing grows more sanguine. He adds, “Tell me what you want done and I will do it.”
“Just relax,” the boy says. “That’s all.”
Dhoorre asks, “How can I relax when you haven’t told me why you are here in our house, with a gun, threatening to shoot me, an old man, of the same age as your grandfather, if you have one?”
“You say our house? How many of you live here?”
“My son, his family, and I.”
The exchange is interrupted by YoungThing’s cell phone. He is aghast. Perhaps the advance team from the command center is already at the gate, waiting to be let in. His voice breaking, he says, “Yes, Sheikh,” several times, bowing in deference to his absent commander. Dhoorre can sense an abrupt change in the boy’s body language, as though he had just realized that he has made a major gaffe, maybe even disobeyed a command. From the little he can gather, the boy is being told off by the man he addresses as Sheikh.
When the call finally ends, the boy seems more agitated than before and barks orders to Dhoorre. “Follow me into the house.”
When they are past the threshold, the boy says, “Go into the bathroom and bolt the door from inside. Be quick about it. And make no sound.”
“What’s happening?” Dhoorre asks.
“I’ll do all I can do to spare your life,” the boy says.
Three men—BigBeard, FootSoldier, and TruthTeller—approach the house from different vantage points at the same time.
BigBeard wraps his purple kaffiyeh around his waist, tucks in a revolver, just in case, and scales the back wall. FootSoldier, a black kaffiyeh around his neck, accesses the compound from a neighboring garden. At the wheel of a pickup truck parked to the left of the front gate, TruthTeller, wearing a red kaffiyeh, waits until the other men confirm that they are both in and it is safe for him to join them. He starts the pickup and waits for one of his mates to open the gate; then he maneuvers the truck in with caution, pulling a wheeled vehicle on which guns and other weapons are mounted, hidden under tarpaulin.
The front gate securely fastened, the men assemble in the house to set up their operation center. BigBeard calls YoungThing over and without any warning punches him so hard in the face that he collapses in a heap on the floor. Everything is still for a while. The two other men watch as YoungThing pulls himself up, half kneeling, his cheek swollen, his lower lip bleeding. When YoungThing has recovered his balance and stands at attention, BigBeard says to him, “Do you realize that your negligence had the potential to cause the movement unnecessary loss of life?”
TruthTeller goes on, “We wouldn’t be here if one of our sympathizers had not, by chance, informed our intelligence of your presence in the neighborhood.”
“Imagine what would’ve happened if we had not been alerted to your grievous error,” FootSoldier adds.
BigBeard, still angry, says, “Go. Off with you.”
Then TruthTeller instructs him to stand guard at the gate while they have their initial meeting. With YoungThing gone, BigBeard assigns to FootSoldier the task of liaison duty to link the cell they are now forming to the principal cell in Wardhiigley District, where the Presidential villa is situated. He charges TruthTeller with the responsibility of bringing in the gun parts. With FootSoldier on the phone to the command center, BigBeard starts to assemble the weapons.
Dhoorre, who is in the bathroom with the door bolted, eavesdrops on their conversation. When he hears all three men leave the house, he takes the gentlest of showers, letting the water drip into his cupped hands to perform the minimum in the way of ablution. He looks at his face in the mirror and observes that he badly needs a shave—it’s a pity that the blade is dull and he has no replacements.
Just then there is a sudden escalation of noise as TruthTeller returns, grumbling about the weight of the machine-gun and bazooka parts. Dhoorre hears weaponry being dropped near the door of the bathroom. It won’t be long before one of the men invades the space where he is confined, Dhoorre realizes. Then he hears the sound of chairs being pulled back from the table and the men sit down.
Straining his ears, he can make out the odd word. The arrival of these men, and their continued presence in the house, can mean only one thing: trouble. He surrenders to the wish to know more, if only to prepare for what is bound to come: death. He kneels down directly behind the keyhole, through which he can glimpse the faces of the men, discern their movements.
BigBeard, as the others call the one with the purple kaffiyeh, is in his thirties, prodigiously built, hirsute, with a husky desert voice; his face muscles knotted, forehead furrowed, he listens to his mates, now encouraging one of the men to speak, now dismissing another’s comments. Dhoorre assumes that he is the leader of the group. BigBeard’s purple kaffiyeh is folded almost in quarters, and wound around his forehead. His hand keeps coming into contact with the fold, caressing and readjusting it in a way that reminds Dhoorre of a vain young woman, just returned from her hairdresser, whose hand keeps straying to her expensive hairdo. Dhoorre does not need to be told that kaffiyehs have lately become fashionable among Mogadishu’s Islamist élite. He remembers watching Peter O’Toole wear one as Lawrence of Arabia, and in recent years how Arafat turned it into a symbol of Palestinian nationhood. But Dhoorre can’t tell if the color of the kaffiyehs that these men wear points to their membership in a given cell.
BigBeard addresses a question to the wearer of the red kaffiyeh—TruthTeller—a man with a big nose; he teasingly inquires, “What is bothering FootSoldier? Why is he pacing back and forth, rubbing his thighs together, his whole body tense?”
TruthTeller replies, “He badly needs the bathroom. Can’t you see him trying to get the door open?”
BigBeard asks, “Has YoungThing come back without our permission?”
FootSoldier assures BigBeard that YoungThing is outside. “In fact, I can see him standing by the gate and saying his Rosary, as a good Muslim must.” 

BigBeard now looks troubled. “Why won’t the bathroom door open if we are the only people in the house?”
TruthTeller goes over to check if there is a key in the door. He pushes the door, kicks at it, and then puts his shoulder to it and shoves. But the door does not give. He says to BigBeard, “It’s locked from the inside, I think.”
FootSoldier asks, “Who is inside, then?”
BigBeard is growing impatient. He slaps FootSoldier, shouting, “What kind of a man are you that you can’t hold your pee?”
He turns to TruthTeller and orders him to call YoungThing in. TruthTeller knocks into the furniture as he goes, kicking at chairs. From the door, he shouts to YoungThing. He asks, “Is someone in the bathroom?”
Dhoorre does not know what to do. He checks his face in the mirror—even a dying man wants to look comparatively clean. He realizes with concern that it’ll be the end of the boy. One moment, he has a good mind to open the door and be done with it; the next moment, he feels inadequate to the task. He is dizzy, gulping air into his lungs, fearing that he will faint before he can open the door.
Then he hears the boy say, “Old man, open the door.”
He unlocks the door and steps out. FootSoldier can’t wait any longer and hurriedly pushes past him. Meanwhile, TruthTeller and YoungThing step out of Dhoorre’s way and keep their distance. BigBeard asks Dhoorre to come closer to him; his eyes penetrate deep into Dhoorre’s fear. The old man thinks of “Psycho,” sensing that BigBeard has something of an actor about him. In a film, he would be the one who pulls the trigger, a hard man with not one iota of gentleness. Dhoorre thinks that with such a man you can never work out the cut and thrust of his intentions.
BigBeard asks, “Why are you here?”
“Because I live here,” Dhoorre says.
FootSoldier comes out in time to hear this. The eyes of all three kaffiyeh-wearing men converge on YoungThing.
TruthTeller asks the boy if this is true.
YoungThing says, “He is a hobo squatting here.”
FootSoldier, who is angry because he had to wait until he almost wet his robes, smacks Dhoorre in the face. “Tell us the truth.” A sudden upswelling of pain overwhelms Dhoorre. “I am telling the truth,” he replies.
TruthTeller, for his part, hits YoungThing, the strike splitting the boy’s lower lip and making it bleed again. He asks, “Is he a hobo squatting here or does he live here?” When the boy touches his bloody lip, as if to wipe it dry, TruthTeller hits him two more times.
BigBeard tells TruthTeller to stop pummelling the boy in front of strangers. He adds, “Can’t you see I am talking to the old man?”
Dhoorre says, “I am a guest, not a drifter.”
“So who lives here?”
“My son,” he replies, “whom I am visiting.”
“What is your son’s name?”
Dhoorre now realizes that he has inadvertently brought his son into focus. All that remains is for him to say his son’s name. Dhoorre has two sons and neither is in the good books of Shabaab. One of his sons, based in Baidoa, is a minister in the Transitional Federal Government, with which Shabaab is at war; the other son, who served in the National Army, is also a known foe of Shabaab, for he has declared himself a secularist and has often militated against the group in radio interviews. It is the latter, an American citizen who lives in [REDACTED] and has been visiting Mogadishu with his family, who is hosting Dhoorre in this rented house. Too late to invent a false identity, Dhoorre gives his son’s name.
BigBeard’s expression is fluid, like dirty water going down a gutter, habitually moving in a downward direction. Dhoorre is aware that Shabaab would be only too pleased to grace either of his sons with immediate beheading and that he is not likely to be spared, either.
Even though he is not sure that it will do the young thing any good, Dhoorre hopes that his statement will have in it the vigor of settling a matter in dispute. He says, pointing at YoungThing, “Let me say, for what it is worth, that this young fellow meant no ill to you or your cause. I would appeal to you to spare him. Islam is peace, the promise of justice. Because I may have misled him. Please.”
Dhoorre discerns movement behind him, and from a corner of his eye he spots TruthTeller with his weapon poised, but not yet ready to shoot. He pushes Dhoorre down with the butt of the firearm. Sitting on a chair, the old man feels the harsh metallic coldness of the weapon against his nape.
FootSoldier says to YoungThing, “You’ve proven delinquent in your behavior. By lying, do you realize that you’ve risked your life and the lives of your fellow-fighters? Why?”
YoungThing says, “I won’t do it again.”
BigBeard orders YoungThing to get his gun from the carryall. YoungThing does as ordered, without fear or sentiment. As he waits for instructions, he does not plead with any of the men to spare his life or that of the old man.
BigBeard says, “Shoot him.”
Dhoorre says, “Please.”
YoungThing can’t determine if the old man is pleading with him not to shoot, or if he is saying, “Go ahead and shoot.” He looks toward BigBeard, who is fingering his long, bushy beard, twisting it with the concentration of a philosopher deep in thought.
Dhoorre thinks that it is in such a scene, where violence gains the upper hand, that one can bear testimony to tragedy in all its registers: a country held to ransom, a people subjected to daily humiliation, a nation sadly put to the sword.
FootSoldier says, “What are you waiting for?
Time passes, as slow as death.
TruthTeller shouts, “Shoot!”
YoungThing might as well just pull the trigger and be done with it, he thinks, without a flinch or immediate regret, although he is aware, despite his young age, that his action will ricochet about in his brain and keep him awake at night, disturbed and jittery. He knows, too, that he is only postponing his own death; no sooner will he shoot the old man than one of the kaffiyehs will make him pay for the crime of not wasting Dhoorre right away. He wishes he had listened to his older sister, who had offered him financial help if he agreed not to join Shabaab and to go to school instead, or to his older brother, who tried, without success, to recruit him as a pirate.
YoungThing shoots, using the silencer.
As the bullet strikes Dhoorre in the forehead, YoungThing is certain that he hears a seabird cawing, only he cannot interpret what it is saying, or whether it is foretelling his own imminent death.
Dhoorre falls off his chair, dropping to the floor in an uncoördinated heap of self-reproach; he is sad that he has had no time to alert his son, his daughter-in-law, and his grandchildren of the ambush that awaits them. His silence preserves the memory of his last words with them, as one treasures a memento mori.
From his posture alone, YoungThing can’t tell if the old man is dead. He lies on his back, head to one side, eyes not wholly closed, his position suggesting sleep.
The kaffiyeh-wearing men sit in the eerie silence that follows the shooting, each an island of disturbed tranquillity. The ringing of a cell phone startles them out of their immobility. They exchange bothered looks.
YoungThing glances around, as though trying to calculate not if but how soon one of the men will shoot him. The realization that he might die in a matter of minutes concentrates his mind, and he resolves not to be afraid. He walks over to where the old man lies sprawled, his legs splayed, his neck crooked, his hands spread out by his side, his nakedness embarrassing. As a token of his fearlessness, YoungThing straightens the man’s legs and places his hands together across his chest, in the gesture of a man praying. He moves back a pace, and looks at what he has done, pleased that he has made the old man as comfortable in death as he can be. Then he waits.
BigBeard has anger etched into his features. Impatient, he is looking from FootSoldier to TruthTeller, as though wondering why they have not yet acted on his rage; then, even more furious, he watches YoungThing, as if he were expecting the boy to fall to his knees in terror. He says to YoungThing, “Have you anything to say before you die?”
YoungThing is defiantly silent. He glances from BigBeard to FootSoldier and then focusses his unrelenting stare on TruthTeller.
BigBeard says to TruthTeller, “Will you do us the favor of ridding us of this thing, this vermin?”
FootSoldier says, “I was hoping you’d ask me.”
BigBeard says, “Fear not. You’ll have your turn. But this is TruthTeller’s turn. I’ve never seen him kill a thing before.”
TruthTeller closes his eyes, winces like a child taking bitter medicine, and shoots YoungThing right between the eyes. Then he unscrews the silencer from his gun.  

