COSTELLO
By Jim Gavin
Costello sees a lizard at the bottom of the pool. The sucker is dead, dead. Full fathom five, as they say. This lizard situation, on a Saturday, presents a major hassle. Costello stands barefoot on the diving board, bouncing a little, with an unlit Tareyton between his lips. Saturday, an extra layer of brightness, Saturday brightness, like God opening a window in the sky.
The back yard needs work. Weeds flaming up from cracks in the concrete, all the flowerpots empty, the patio cover rotten with termites. Costello pops a net onto the aluminum pole and stands at the edge of the deep end. His wife wanted the deep end extra deep, so that the girls could dive. The water is green, the lizard caught in silhouette, its tail wedged underneath the filter cover. Costello scoops up a flotilla of dead June bugs, dumps them in the planter, and then goes deeper, making a play for the lizard.
Next door, Jesse Rocha starts up his hedge trimmer. He’s the same age as Costello, but semi-retired. By some dull, suburban coincidence, Rocha, like Costello, is a plumbing lifer, but on the skilled side of things—repairs and remodels, three trucks and a shop. Last year, finessing his way out of a workman’s-comp lawsuit, he changed the company name from Rocha Plumbing to Advanced Plumbing Specialists. “This is the great state of [REDACTED],” he said. “Sunshine and litigation.”
Rocha pokes his bald head over the brown cinder-block wall, the same crumbling wall that squares off every yard in this section of Anaheim. He turns off the trimmer.
“Hey, Marty,” he says. “I saw that thing in The Pipeline. Congratulations.”
It came yesterday, the new issue of The Pipeline, quarterly organ of the West Coast Plumbing Association. Twelve pages, two staples. Martin Costello, a nominee for sales rep of the year.
“I’m working on my acceptance speech,” Costello says.
Rocha laughs. He and Connie are nice enough, always helpful. A common-law thing, no kids. Hedging their bets for twenty years.
“You should hire our pool guy,” Rocha says.
“I don’t mind doing it.”
“Your water looks a little green.”
“I’ll blow it up with chemicals,” Costello says. “Nagasaki the shit out of it.” Points to the deep end. “There’s a lizard down there. At the bottom.”
“I thought lizards could swim.”
“I’m not sure.”
“Crocodiles can swim,” Rocha says. “A crocodile is just a big lizard.”
“I know salamanders can swim.”
“That’s true.”
“They’re amphibious,” Costello says.
“My grandma used to keep axolotls.” Rocha spells the word for him. “Mexican salamanders,” he explains. “Milky white, with golden eyes. They’d freak you out.”
“Golden eyes? Holy shit.”
Nods, silence. A meeting of the minds. Two medieval doctors.
“You’re not swimming, are you?” Rocha asks. “The water’s a little green.”
“I’m just gonna float around on the raft.”
The trimmer snaps on, the noise making a million tiny cracks in the afternoon.
Costello is shirtless, his belly soft and pink. Still wearing his old Dodger cap. He hasn’t combed his hair on a Saturday in thirty years, not since before the girls were born. He flips the cap around so he can see what he’s doing. The long pole rests against his shoulder; he pushes the rim of the net under the lizard, but the poor sucker won’t budge. Costello gives up.
His sacraments wait for him by the shallow-end steps. Sports page, crossword puzzle, and felt-tip pen, the Tareytons, three left, and a Zippo flashing in the sun. And the new issue of The Pipeline. A bit of vanity. He climbs carefully onto the plastic raft and pushes off the side, off the tile that she chose—orange and purple, a floral mosaic, Spanish.
A nice day, warm and clear. What they call an azure sky. On the wooden telephone pole in the corner of the yard a single crow keeps vigil. The telephone wires run parallel to everything. The sky divided by clean horizontal lines: the roof, the wall, the wires. This is what he paid for. Peaceful ranch-house living. Sea-green stucco and a sliding glass door.
Three mortgages, babe, each one more magnificent than the last.
Costello is looking at himself. Page 3 of The Pipeline, a feature article about the company he works for, Ajax Plumbing Sales, of Compton. Special notices to Jack Isahakian, the owner, who is nominated for manager of the year, and to him, Martin Costello, the top outside guy. The supreme council of elders will announce the awards this Friday, after the annual W.C.P.A. Best Ball Extravaganza. Every contractor, rep, and wholesaler in SoCal descending on whatever shitball municipal golf course the council has managed to rent out. The hackfest of all hackfests.
Costello is pictured merrily athwart a brand-new Ultima 900, the elongated vacuum-assist two-piece toilet from Brentford that he specified onto every job done last year in the high desert by Lamrock Plumbing Inc. The defective ball cocks on the Ultimas are still causing problems—a nightmare sorting out the warranty situation with the factory—but the article doesn’t mention that. A nice fluff piece. Jack, in his humility, made the photographer put the entire Ajax crew in the picture, everybody hanging off forklifts and pallets in the sunny pipe yard. They’re all squinting, faces bright, Linda—pronounced Leenda—in her wheelchair, waving to the camera. The article extolls Ajax’s transformation after the brutalities of the last housing crash, 1990-95, the trifecta-mortgage years. Jack, quoted at length: “We got fat on new construction like everybody else, but when reality set in we had to change things, think smaller, master the nickel-and-dime stuff with our wholesalers.” All the news that’s fit to print.
Rocha finishes whacking his bottlebrush plant, turns the trimmer off. Costello, drifting in the deep end, sees a cloud of red needles floating over the wall.
“We’re turning on the barbecue tonight,” Rocha says. “Feel free to come by.”
A year of warm regards and kind invitations. A year of telling lies to avoid them.
“I’m meeting the girls for dinner,” Costello says. “Thanks, though.”
Rocha salutes and leaves the wall. A moment later, the sound of his diving board, then a splash of impressive magnitude. Jesse Rocha, a virtuoso of the cannonball.
Costello lights up. Tareyton, the taste we’re fighting for. No more sneaking them behind her back. Now he can kill himself out in the open, under a blue sky.
Costello floats for a few minutes, blowing smoke rings, idly snapping the Zippo. Nice and quiet. A dragonfly hovers over the water, touching down smooth and fast, then gone, zigzagging up and over the wall, a dustoff.
The telephone pole in the corner of the yard, like the mainmast of a ship. Galleons and caravels. Sailors in the crosstrees on lookout. Magellan and his crew, drifting on the equator, praying for wind.
He starts the crossword, but can’t concentrate. An uneasy feeling clutches his stomach. The lizard directly below, full fathom five. He pushes off toward the shallow end and disembarks, his feet slipping into the slimy water.
Evening comes. The house is dark. Costello drives his Pontiac Grand Am one block, parks in a cul-de-sac, and walks back to the house, slipping in through the side gate. Smoke and mirrors, to make the Rochas think he’s out with the girls.
Later, in his recliner, in the dark, with the curtains drawn and the air-conditioning blasting, he turns on the game. The voice of Vin Scully, soothing and omniscient, the God voice of SoCal. Costello gets nervous during games. He paces the green shag in the family room, looking for distractions. The upper shelves of the wall unit are full of pictures: the girls as kids, in various stages of toothlessness and rec-league glory. Then the encyclopedias, Funk & Wagnalls, A through Z, one a month at Safeway for more than two years. There’s a copy of “Moby-Dick.” Some other random books of nautical lore. Krakens, mermaids, the Fata Morgana. Costello finds the book of explorers, turns to his favorite passage. Magellan’s crew, lost in the doldrums of the [REDACTED], slowly starving to death. Costello, laughing, reads his favorite quote: “. . . and when they ran out of rats, they chewed the bark off the mainmast.”
In the kitchen, by the light of the refrigerator, Costello takes out a giant bag of hot dogs. Then a giant tub of mustard, then a giant tub of mayonnaise. Smart & Final, apocalypse shopping. He puts dogs on a paper plate, shoves them in the microwave. Waiting, he sets up four buns, slapping on mustard and mayonnaise. He takes a fifth bun, balls it up, dips it in the mayonnaise, swallows it whole. The dogs pop and hiss. He pours Pepsi from a two-litre bottle into a clean glass just out of the dishwasher. A bit of decorum. The television lights the family room, with waves of blue aquarium light. Costello, leaning forward in his recliner, a dish towel over his knees, eyes focussed on the game, mayonnaise punctuating both sides of his mouth—this is how he eats. The girls want to get him out of the house more. It’s been over a year, they say, you need to get out there, you need to do something, go somewhere. Go where?
In the bottom of the ninth a pinch-hitter stares innocently at strike three. Costello throws his cap at the television, stomps down the dark hall. For a while, he plays hearts on the computer, sipping his Pepsi, trying to calm down. His animated opponents are a bear, an alien, and some kind of go-go dancer. At ten o’clock, hearing the [REDACTED] fireworks, he can’t help himself. He goes out through the garage, scales the side gate onto the roof, and walks barefoot across the asphalt shingles. An old summer ritual, watching fireworks on the roof, his pool and Rocha’s sparkling in the darkness, the girls tossing their Popsicle sticks down the chimney. He lights up, snaps the Zippo. Down below, he sees Rocha and Connie in their yard, holding beers, watching the sky. They hear something, start looking around. Connie, ten years younger than Rocha, firm as all hell, what they call a biker babe. Thou shalt not covet. Soon they’ll notice the man lurking above them. They will ask legitimate questions and listen generously to his implausible answers. This is bad form, weird and selfish behavior, blowing them off to watch the game alone. They are nice enough people.
Costello, on tiptoe, moves toward the chimney, the only hiding place, but he trips on one of the support wires that hold up the old TV aerial. He rolls down the slant, but the chimney catches him before he can plunge into the dead rosebushes. Cursing silently to himself, he hears Rocha.
“Marty? Is that you?”
“Marty, are you O.K.?” Connie calls in her raspy voice.
Costello crouches behind the chimney. A night ambush. The sky cracking, turning colors. Surrender.
“Yeah,” he says, standing up, faking laughter. “I tripped.”
“Don’t fall off the roof, man,” Rocha says.
“Look,” Costello says, pointing in the general direction of the Matterhorn. “Here comes the grand finale.”
Greens and blues and reds, whirling and cracking. Connie claps when it’s over.
“I’ll see you Friday, Marty,” Rocha says, squeezing Connie’s ass.
“You will?”
“The W.C.P.A. tourney,” Rocha reminds him.
“Right,” Costello says. “Ajax is sponsoring a hole. Stop by if you want.”
An hour later, with his bloody foot wrapped in toilet paper, he watches the local news, waiting for sports and weather.
Sunday, Costello arrives late to evening Mass, sits in the back, falls asleep during the homily, then slips out right after Communion, still chewing the wafer as he hurries across the parking lot. Francine, the parish retard, accosts him. Forty going on ten. Not enough oxygen to the brain at birth. Acne, hairy upper lip, one of God’s defectives. Lives in a halfway house down the street. She rides around on a beach cruiser, greeting people, keeping track of who goes to Mass, spreading her tragic brand of glee. His wife was friends with Francine, or put up with her, at least, let her stop by the house, let her ramble on and on. For a while, afterward, Francine kept coming by to visit Costello. He’d hold the door half closed, smile, feign sleep, illness, never letting her in. A responder to subtle hints Francine is not.
She rolls toward him on her bike.
“Hi, Marty!”
“Hey there, Francine,” Costello says, swallowing the consecrated host. “Shouldn’t you be wearing a helmet?”
Keys, door, faster. A fucking zombie attack.
“Bye, Marty!”
On Monday morning, Costello neatly arranges his hair crosswise over his skull, using a comb, a blow dryer, and an aerosol beauty product called the Dry Look. Pleated khakis, beige golf shirt with Ajax logo, brown Member’s Only jacket. Everything you own is brown, she used to say. He clicks his Nextel into his belt holster and leaves the house at six o’clock.
Anaheim is beautiful. Supremo freeway access in all directions. All that concrete crisscrossing in the air, north and south, east and west, a compass rose. He takes the 91, the Artesia Freeway, east toward the Ajax warehouse in Compton. Dick Dale on cassette, black coffee from McDonald’s, a trunkful of defective ball cocks. He checks the odometer: 237,000 and counting. He averages fifty thousand miles a year, vast territories, circles of latitude, Inglewood to Barstow, sailing across SoCal, all day, every day. Thirty-five years, carry the one, that’s a couple million miles. Circumnavigation. Begin where you end, end where you begin. Sailors crossing the equator, initiated into the ancient mysteries of the deep. Getting laid in the watery parts of the world. In [REDACTED], R. & R., the house on the hill, his first and only piece before her. Fifty thousand miles a year. Let them bury Martin Costello on the freeway. Let them throw his body over the side of a transition loop, commending his soul to Trafficus rex.
He exits the 91, cruises down Avalon Boulevard, turns left into an industrial cul-de-sac. Pigeons and graffiti and concertina wire. Costello parks next to Jack Isahakian’s Mercury Grand Marquis. Luis, the Lord of Will Call, walks out of the warehouse, on his way to get breakfast at the roach coach, which has entered the cul-de-sac, horn blaring. The sun is coming up.
An exchange of que pasos, and then Costello asks, “You ever see an axolotl?”
Luis, eyes still bloodshot from his festival weekend in Zacatecas, shakes his head.
“It’s a Mexican salamander,” Costello explains.
“I saw a Gila monster,” Luis says.
“I’ve seen pictures of those things,” Costello says. “Ugly suckers.”
“The thing about them,” Luis says, “is they don’t have . . . they can’t ever . . .”
“They can’t ever what?”
“The tail just gets bigger,” Luis says. “It fills up. Their whole life.”
“What, with shit?” Costello readies a Tareyton. “Are you telling me Gila monsters don’t have assholes?”
“It just fills up.”
“That’s not healthy. Shit is toxic.” [#unhandled_cartoon]
Costello considers a burrito. It will destroy him, but what the hell. He and Luis load up on chorizo and enter the pipe yard. Sunlight playing through a pyramid of bell-ended sixteen-inch PVC. The warehouse is twenty thousand square feet. Smells sweetly of diesel exhaust. Costello walks up the ramp that Jack installed for Linda and enters the dark and empty office. He passes through the catalogue library and into Jack’s wood-panelled war room. Jack is a giant eyebrow with a man attached. He’s already on the phone with one of the factories. On his desk a double frame with pictures of his wife and kids. Fluorescent light and the smell of a million burned coffees.
“Hold on,” Jack says, and puts his hand over the mouthpiece. “Listen, comrade. I’m sending out an e-mail. I’m outlawing consignments. Anything we ship from here we expect to be paid for. That’s my new business philosophy. I’m speaking, what do you call it? Ex cathedra? You guys have too many funky arrangements going, and I’m too stupid to keep track. If you want, do sixty-day billing and address the receivable with Linda, but after that point we expect to be paid. That’s what I’m going to say in the e-mail.”
“Gila monsters don’t have assholes,” Costello says, sitting down.
“Can I call you back?” Jack hangs up the phone. “Is that true?”
“The tail just gets bigger. The shit stores up in there and that’s why they’re poisonous.”
“That makes sense from an evolution standpoint.”
“Good thing humans don’t work like that,” Costello says. “That would be a major blow to our industry.”
“Beautiful.” Jack massages his eyebrow. “Listen. You need to talk to somebody at Bromberg. We need to get this ball-cock thing taken care of once and for all.”
“It’s taken care of,” Costello says. “That’s all I’ve been doing. Lamrock was merciful. He signed off on everything.”
“I’m still getting calls from everybody at Bromberg.”
“One defective part, and the whole universe unravels.”
“I’m tired of the calls. I can’t deal with those fucking people.”
“I’m going out there on Thursday,” Costello says. “I’ll take care of it.”
“Great,” Jack says. “How’s everything else?”
“Have you ever seen an axolotl? It’s a lizard with golden eyes.”
“Have you been reading or something?”
Costello shrugs. Jack sips from a plastic-foam cup. This is the best part of the morning, bullshitting with Jack. Another lifer. Costello met him in 1972, back when he was with [REDACTED] Sales of Gardena, his first real gig. Started three weeks after his discharge. In the interview, all they really wanted to know was whether he played softball. They needed a shortstop. Destiny. Two years on the order desk, then inside sales, enjoying the air-conditioning. Then outside sales, flying around the country, a briefcase man, calling on big accounts in Kalamazoo, Adamsville, Port Arthur, and other cosmopolitan places. Phoning her every night from those ratty motel rooms. They once sent him to [REDACTED], his first and only time. He had visions of marble and light, a weekend full of banter, highballs, limousines, just like in the movies. But he was there for only twelve hours, taking a cab from J.F.K. directly to a national distro center in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He did his presentation for all the managers and purchasing agents, and on the way out he met a valves rep coming through the door, Jack Isahakian, of the Glendale Isahakians, also on the East Coast for one day. An hour later, in the rain, they shared a cab back to J.F.K., neither of them so much as glimpsing the [REDACTED] skyline. It always turns out like that. Bummers and letdowns. [REDACTED] eventually went under, and Costello joined Sepulveda Sales, which was basically just [REDACTED] reconstituted without the baneful influence of Bob [REDACTED], the price-fixing asshole who drove all their customers away and died of a heart attack in the men’s room of the Los Angeles Convention Center, thus securing his place in industry lore. Isahakian switched firms a couple of times, too. The years passing, they saw each other here and there—conventions, golf tournaments. Jack a diehard Dodgers fan. They always got along. Costello remembers telling him, at a counter day in Riverside in 1985, that he was putting in a pool. The last time Costello had money in the bank.
Then 1990, the plague. Sepulveda went under. Costello was forty-five years old, hustling for a job, any job, making calls, pulling the girls out of Catholic school, sending them to the neighbors’ for breakfast. Her minivan repossessed. Credit-card shell games. She started up an unlicensed day-care service—cash under the table, grocery money, a parade of little monsters splashing in the pool. She screamed at him at night, the girls awake across the hall. You fucking bitch, I never took a day off in my life. Not one day. But never out loud. Too scared of her. Just lay there, taking the blame. At one point, he stopped by Home Depot and filled out an application to be a cashier. Worst day of his life. Then the call. Jack Isahakian, of the Glendale Isahakians, saying that he had nothing, absolutely nothing, because everyone was fucked at the moment, but, if Costello could stand to go back to where he’d started, he could work the order desk and maybe some days do outside stuff, straight commission work on all the dogshit wholesalers, and see what happened after that, but everyone was fucked, so no promises. Jack was a loudmouth, but a grinder, the real deal. What luck to know a good and honest man.
“Did you get The Pipeline?” Jack says, holding up his copy. “They cut half my quotes.”
“It’s still a nice little article.”
“I heard from Lamrock’s guy. W.C.P.A. is going all out for the banquet this year. Prime rib, champagne, napkins.”
“The decadence of 4974616c79.”
“When I win, they’ll probably give me five minutes to make a speech. I’m using that Gila-monster thing. It’s beautiful.”
Lights blaze in the outer office, marking the arrival of inside sales. Costello loads up on coffee and catalogues.
Going west on 91, against traffic. Costello, the driving virtuoso. Warehouses crowding both sides of the freeway. On each rooftop a row of turbine vents. Spinning silver flowers. Costello sails over the bright and hostile neighborhoods of North Long Beach, scene of his wasted youth. The pool hall on Cherry Avenue. During the plague, everything falling apart, he hid out there again, a grown man, pretending he still had a job. Nineball at two in the afternoon. A vacation in hell. Smoke and mirrors for two months. Putting everything on the credit card. She said he looked gray, his skin was gray, and when he told her, finally, a moment of pure relief, she was there, touching his gray hand, bringing his color back.
Costello spends Monday night sitting in his chair, watching reruns of “Law & Order.” The phone rings. He never gets there in time, picks it up right when the machine turns on, creating stress and chaos for everyone involved. Gone more than a year, and she’s still on the outgoing message. Talking over her voice, the machine beeping, his daughter on the other end, annoyed.
“Dad?” one of the girls says. He can’t tell their voices apart.
“Hello, hello!”
“It’s Katie.”
“Katie!”
“Watching the game?”
“It’s a travel day. How’s summer school?” She has to teach it for extra money. Teaching at a Catholic high school, a vow of poverty.
“Meg and I want to take you out Saturday.”
“Don’t go to any trouble,” Costello says. “I want you guys to enjoy your weekend.”
“I’ll call you Saturday.”
“O.K. Well, I’ll let you go.”
“I don’t need to be let go. I’m talking to you. We’re talking.”
“O.K.”
“How’s business?” she asks.
He tells her everything he knows about Gila monsters and their lack of assholes.
“I’m pretty sure that’s not true,” she says.
At lunch on Tuesday it’s Costello vs. Luis. The warehouse crew gathering around the Ping-Pong table, eating pizza. Even after a few beers, Luis is nimble and cunning. A bottle of Advil rattles ceremoniously in his back pocket each time he lunges for a ball.
“Marty gets cute with the backspin,” Jack warns, beer in hand.
Next to him is Dave Mumbry, who covers the San Fernando Valley, one of the younger salesmen, handling all the dogshit accounts. “How’d you get so good at Ping-Pong?” he asks.
“The Army,” Costello says. “The least selective fraternity in the world.”
He hears someone calling his name. Lilac perfume mingling with diesel exhaust. He turns to where Linda used to be, and then down to where she is. Linda, twenty-four years old, with a bullet in her spine. Caught in the crossfire waiting for a bus on Redondo Beach Boulevard.
“Five Star Pipe & Supply,” she says. “Is that your guy?”
“Yeah, that’s my guy.”
“They ordered some brass but didn’t give me a P.O. number.”
“Ron gave me a verbal,” Costello says. “I gave them ninety-day billing.”
“Ninety days!” Jack shouts. “What is that, philanthropy?”
Costello follows Linda up the ramp. Doesn’t know whether to help push her.
“I’ll put him on a payment schedule for that stuff,” she says. “But nothing else leaves the warehouse until I see some money.”
“I’ll take care of it,” Costello says.
Later that night, Costello pulls into his driveway. There’s Rocha, revving up his Harley. And Connie running out the front door, encased in denim. Matching black helmets. Down to Chili’s, for a delightful evening of pillage and rape. She waves to Marty and off they go, her legs squeezing tight.
The house is dark and quiet. For a couple of hours, Costello sits at the dining-room table, paying the bills. Still paying off the plague. Fifteen years without a vacation. Never taking her out to dinner, not once. A million Ragú dinners. But at least they never ran out of rats.
He turns on the TV. The Dodgers on the first night of their home stand. Down two runs in the eighth. Costello, anxious, muttering to himself, drinking straight from the two-litre bottle of Pepsi. He wanders over to the glass door and looks out on the darkness. He turns on the pool light. A pretty shade of green and the lizard down below.
Wednesday afternoon, up in Baldwin Park, a forsaken road winding past broken cinder block, a driveway with no address, a dungeon of a warehouse, and Ron Ciavacco, proprietor of Five Star Pipe & Supply. Sitting at the counter, marking up a racing form, as Valerie, his sister and only employee, smokes and watches “Dr. Phil” on a small black-and-white. They’ve been going out of business for twenty-five years.
“The wolf is at the door, my friend,” Costello says, and gently explains the situation. The concept of paying for goods and services. Ron, a beggar and a chooser, asks for better pricing on globe valves. They shake hands. Ron wishes him luck at the W.C.P.A. awards banquet.
“I don’t care about stats,” Costello says. “Just as long as we win!”
At dusk, he hides from the eastbound traffic. Drives down Cherry Avenue to the beach. Or what’s left of it. The strand is dull and gray. Nobody goes in the water. He walks along the bluffs, smoking, counting the tankers in the harbor, a habit since childhood. [REDACTED] Island, a distant mirage. Sixty years in SoCal and he’s never taken the boat to [REDACTED].
Listening to the Dodger game on the way home. Our man from Santo Domingo dealing a shutout into the seventh inning. Gets home just in time. Big bowl of vanilla ice cream, the last two innings, and then the news. Absolutely beautiful. There’s a knock at the door.
“Hi, Marty!” Francine in her bike helmet.
“Now’s not a good time.”
She puts one foot inside, and Costello has no choice but to let her in.
Be thankful for small mercies, Francine. The Nazis would’ve thrown you in a lime pit. Francine stares at the pictures on the bookcase, ignoring the travesty taking place right now in the top of the eighth. The manager, in his wisdom, pulling the young lefty after he gives up a walk. Let him work out of trouble, for Chrissakes. Only way to become a pitcher.
“She said I could have her jewelry,” Francine says.
“What?”
Francine walking down the hall, turning on the lights, like she owns the place. There’s no jewelry, no real jewelry, except her wedding ring. Katie has that. Francine in their bedroom, holding the rosewood jewelry box in her stubby hands.
“It’s all cheap crap,” Costello says. “You won’t impress anyone, if that’s what you’re going for.”
The box tucked under her arm.
“Fine. It’s all yours, then. Come on.”
Back down the hall, turning off the lights. Francine is going out the front door. She doesn’t say goodbye. A Bedouin in the night.
The Dodgers closer gets lit up and they lose in extra innings. At eleven o’clock, Costello turns on the news. And then Megan calls, just to say hi. He asks her about her junior-college classes and she rants and raves about the stupidity of her fellow-students. She hates Orange County. Fascist this, soulless that. She wants to travel. See the watery parts of the world. She talks through the weather and into the next commercial. Sports is next. Costello starts leaning toward the side table, getting ready to hang up the phone at his first opportunity. When he sees the Dodger highlights coming on, he says, “Well, I’ll let you go.”
“What are you watching?” Megan asks.
“What? Nothing.”
She laughs at him. “We’re taking you out Saturday, whether you like it or not.”
On Thursday afternoon, he drives east into the Inland Empire, alighting upon a paved, semi-incorporated nowhere called Mira Loma. Bromberg Enterprises, the Death Star of the industrial-plumbing universe, sitting in a ring of smog on the edge of the freeway, five hundred thousand square feet of blazing white concrete. Costello parks at the edge of a vast parking lot and walks a half mile through warm, gusty winds that play havoc with his hair.
Through the dark maw of loading dock No. 53 and into the maze. Towering rows of everything. Hundreds of warehouse crew, pushing gleaming silver hand trucks and hydraulic pallet jacks. It smells clean in here, no diesel exhaust, all the forklifts fancy and electric. A “No Smoking” sign every ten feet. It’s only a matter of time before Bromberg swallows up Ajax and every other rep in SoCal. Eliminate the middleman. At the far end, a metal staircase leads to the offices of young men with business degrees from accredited universities. Chris Easton, a bureaucrat with class and breeding, sits Costello down, offers him coffee, soda, popcorn, hot dogs. They’ve got a whole circus up here. Costello breaks down the ball-cock situation. Five hundred serial numbers for five hundred faulty units, written down by hand, his own, on a yellow legal pad, plus a flowchart of rebate and compensation. The factory rep running interference for the contractor, on behalf of the contractor’s wholesaler, so neither has to face the wrath of the builder. The gallant factory rep, doing his duty, meeting his challenger. Pistols at dawn.
“It’s ridiculous how complicated this is,” Easton says, flipping the chart upside down. 

“It’s what they call a byzantine arrangement. But I’ve already been out on all the job sites and squared things with Lamrock. We’re switching out the defectives ourselves. All you need to do is sign off on the replacements so my contractor can pull from your shelves A.S.A.P. The purchase-order numbers are already plugged in and you get the percentage on everything. You really don’t have to do a goddam thing.” Calm down, calm down. “I’m just saying . . . I’m just showing you what I did so I don’t have to answer questions later. It’s pretty much a done deal. Our long national nightmare is over.”
“Lamrock O.K.’d this?”
“Ex cathedra.”
“What?”
“Lamrock O.K.’d it.”
“Can you send this to me as an Excel sheet? I can’t show this mess to my boss.”
“You bet. There’s a gal in our office. She’s dynamite with computers.”
Easton laughs like he just heard a joke, and gives back the legal pad. A new bag of Pings in the corner, a framed photograph of Easton standing next to Tiger Woods.
“Are you going to the W.C.P.A. tourney?” Costello asks.
“Harbor Municipal,” he says, tentatively. “That’s a pretty ghetto course.”
“Not for us hacks.” Costello looks at his watch. “Maybe we could go down and double-check your stock.”
“I can punch it up for you right now.”
“I’d rather go down myself.”
“It’s all right here,” he says, tapping his laptop screen. “Everything that comes in and out of this place is all right here.”
“I know. I just want to see it.”
“Actually,” Easton says, “I’m not allowed down there at the moment.”
“Why not?”
“Long story.”
“Oh, yeah?” Costello crosses his legs, getting comfortable, expecting a story. This is the job. This is the beauty of every job. Listening to stories.
“I don’t have time to go into it. Just e-mail me that sheet.”
“Tell me the general area where I need to look. I’ll use my Spidey sense.”
“You’ll get lost. I’ll call somebody.”
The liaison, a snaggletoothed black kid, arrives at the bottom of the stairs, driving an electric cart. Zipping down aisle 97B, a gob of tobacco under his lip.
“How come Easton stays up there?”
“Who?”
“Easton. He works upstairs.”
The kid stops the cart and looks around. “A couple weeks ago, a dude got stabbed over by Will Call.” Points ominously to a distant vector of the warehouse. “No one upstairs is allowed downstairs until the investigation is over. That side’s run by Flora Street. Northside Kings are up here, running all the trim. Most of the foremen are Northside, so that’s where the problem starts.”
“Are you in a gang?”
“No.”
“Well, Christ, be careful.”
“The best part is that the guy who did it already got fired for something else.”
“Does Easton know that?” Clever of young Easton, sending the old factory rep into the kill zone.
“No. We’re all getting longer lunches while they do the investigation. Don’t say nothing.”
“I won’t.”
The kid gets him a mobile-stair unit with suction stops. Costello spends an hour aloft, counting boxes, one by one, then has a cigarette on the edge of the loading dock.
Later, driving back to Anaheim, against traffic, he pulls off to get some In-N-Out. Orders the Double-Double, with grilled onions and extra dressing. Outside on the stone benches, a warm night, the sky gray and pink. Katie worked here for a couple of summers. Good money for fast food, but it gave her acne. Or maybe it was Megan. Cute round face, both of them, like their mother. Would be nice if they could come to the W.C.P.A. banquet, be there when the awards are announced. But what a bummer for them, hanging around with a bunch of plumbers and toilet salesmen on a Friday night.
He stops at Home Depot and buys shock treatment for the pool. He waits at the register as the girl tries to change the receipt paper, looking flustered. Could’ve been him.
In the fading light Costello stands at the edge of the deep end. The lizard is barely visible at the bottom. He dumps in two bags of calcium hypochlorite. Burns the nose. White cleansing death.
A year of radiation. A year of bedpans and vomit bowls. Gray wispy hair like cobwebs on her head. All so that we could have our long, precious goodbye. Pointless. It wasn’t for you. I knew the young and dancing you. Disintegrating every day, pale, nauseated, dementia, that wasn’t you. A thing died in our bed—it wasn’t you. I should’ve slit your throat, babe, while you were still you.
On Friday afternoon, before leaving the office for the tournament, Costello stops by Linda’s desk and asks for help. He holds up the yellow legal pad containing all his ball-cock calculations.
“Do you know how to put this in Excel?”
“Just put it there,” she says, pointing to an empty spot on her desk.
“It doesn’t have to be anything fancy.”
She explains that she can e-mail it to the guy at Bromberg as soon as it’s done.
“Great!” Costello says. “Saves me the hassle!”
“You’re late for the tournament,” she says, shooing him away.
Harbor Municipal. Par-3 wonderland. The parking lot full of plumbing trucks. One of them just a filthy old milk truck with no windows or decals. Instead, someone has traced “Kelly Plumbing” in the dust, along with a phone number. Blessed are the plumbers. Old guys in coveralls dragging their bags and beer coolers. Young vato plumbers in their Dickies, swinging wedges and putters.
Costello walks up the ninth hole. Jack and Mumbry, totally blasted, are taking practice tee shots, trying to hit a foursome who are putting on the green.
“Fuck off,” one of them yells back across the fairway, his voice muffled by the sound of the 405 freeway, which is hidden behind a line of eucalyptus trees.
Jack gives the guy the finger, takes a long pull on his Tecate. Mumbry points to the sand trap by the green, where a solitary figure is sprawled face down.
“That guy passed out down there about an hour ago.”
“A hundred dollars if anybody tags him from here,” Jack offers.
“Maybe he’s dead,” Costello says.
“A couple guys from Dinoffria Plumbing reported back,” Mumbry says. “He’s breathing.”
Ajax has a tent set up. Glorious standards flapping in the wind. A few plumbers stand around, drinking, looking through catalogues, playing with the new faucet models.
Mumbry has orange chicken-wing sauce all around his mouth.
“You just missed the Hooters girls, Marty. They got hot wings inside these heat packs that keep them hot.”
Jack puts an arm around Mumbry. “Collectively, the girls opted not to fuck Dave.”
“I’m a married man,” Mumbry says.
“So am I,” Jack says. “It’s a common condition.”
“When does the Best Ball start?” Costello asks.
“It got cancelled,” Mumbry says. “There’s some disorganization going on.”
“Then fuck it. I’m having a whack.”
Costello with a 9-iron. Bend the knees, let it rip. Losing the ball in the white sky, then the silence of a distant landing, four feet in front of the sand trap. Costello grabs a wedge and a putter.
“If I don’t return,” he says, “avenge me.”
The grass is summer brown. Hot winds whirling down from the freeway. Sirocco, an old crossword word. A ball whizzes past Costello’s head.
“Incoming!” Jack’s voice louder than the wind. Friendly fire.
The drunk in the sand trap rolls over. Lying there, quite peaceful, with an empty bottle of peppermint schnapps next to his head, is the man himself, Lamrock, patron saint of plumbing contractors throughout Christendom.
Costello pitches his ball over the trap, over the corpus of Lamrock. The ball rolls onto the green. The flag, at first, is nowhere to be found. But then he sees it floating in the water hazard, along with several empty beer cans. Costello drops his putt, saving par.
A golf cart crests the hill, plumbers dangling out the sides, wielding golf clubs and forty-ounce bottles of beer. A blond Hooters girl driving, swerving, laughing. She skids onto the green and someone yells, “Marty!”
Rocha, riding shotgun, has his arm over her shoulder. “Marty, man, are you loaded or what?”
“I’m just trying to get in a few whacks.”
Rocha introduces his fellow-technicians from Advanced Plumbing Specialists, and his young cousin, an apprentice. He introduces Mandy.
“This is crazy,” she tells Costello. “Most of the shit they send us to is so boring.”
“Yeah, we have a lot of fun out here,” Costello says, a little too brightly, his voice cracking like a thirteen-year-old’s. Christ, the goofiness, it never goes away.
“Marty’s a nominee for sales rep of the year,” Rocha says, drunk, grinning ear to ear, nudging Mandy with his shoulder.
“Wow!” Mandy says, with big mocking eyes.
Just once a piece like her, just once, but never. A bit trashy, but still, there’s a time and a place for everything.
“We’re speed-golfing,” Rocha says. “You have to hit the ball from the cart while it’s moving. It’s like polo.”
“The sport of kings,” Costello says.
A cart marked “Ranger” comes over the hill. A man armed with a bullhorn, yelling at everybody to go home. The W.C.P.A. Best Ball Extravaganza is drifting into chaos.
“Fascist motherfucker,” Rocha’s little cousin says.
Costello and Rocha extract Lamrock. His face plastered with drool and sand. They pour some water on him.
“It’s prime-rib time,” Rocha says, nudging Mandy once more. “You like meat, right?”
A frozen smile. She looks trapped all of a sudden. Waiting for them to go away. They load Lamrock into the cart and drive up the fairway. Jack sees Lamrock and laughs.
“That was you down there? You fucking lightweight!”
“I think I got dehydrated,” Lamrock says.
The Ajax standards are coming down. In carts and on foot, plumbing contractors sweep across the steppes of the municipal course. The Mongol hordes. Costello helps carry the faucet displays back to the clubhouse, which is now off limits. Through the windows, the silver vats of prime rib. The wait staff taking it all back to the kitchen. Security pushing plumbers away from the door.
“Somebody tell somebody that Jack Isahakian wants to eat,” Jack says.
A forty-ounce shatters on the pavement. Pushing and shoving. Security guards on their walkie-talkies, calling in an air strike. Night falling on Harbor Municipal.
“I don’t think they’ll let us back next year,” Mumbry says.
In the end, the banquet is held in the parking lot. The W.C.P.A. supreme council gathers everyone up and, just like that, the awards ceremony is over. Jack wins manager of the year. Mike Melendez, of Southwestern Sales, gets rep of the year. Costello congratulates Mike, who says, “That ball-cock thing fucked you up.”
Mike takes his plaque and leaves. Most of the guys head out, a cavalcade of plumbing trucks. Lamrock pouring shots into Dixie cups for everyone who sticks around. The lifers. The heavies. In the amber darkness, Jack mounts the hood of his Grand Marquis, holding up his plaque in triumph.
“Hey, listen up. I’m not leaving here without a speech. Somebody introduce me. No, fuck it. I’ll do it myself. I’m Jack Isahakian. Some of you are lucky enough to know me.” A chorus of “fuck you”s. “Yeah, well, I’m a lucky man myself. I work with a lot of highly competent professionals. Solid people top to bottom. Warehouse, inside, outside. I can point to anyone at Ajax, man or woman, and say, ‘That guy right there, he’s a fucking pro.’ Let me give you an example. I have five minutes, right? Most of you know Marty Costello. He’s what we call a salesman. What he does is make sales calls. A couple months ago, on a rainy day, he walks in the door at Munson Pipe & Supply in [REDACTED].” Some whooping and hollering from the Munson contingent. “That’s what salesmen do. They show up and they walk through the door. On this day, it turns out that our competition, who shall remain nameless. . . . It’s Gary Yeager from Carlton-Hill Sales. Is he here? I don’t want to throw Gary under the bus or anything, but on this day he excused himself from walking in the door because it was raining outside. He actually called up Munson and said that. I admire his honesty, but if I felt I couldn’t work because it was raining outside I wouldn’t admit it to anybody. I’d go home and shoot myself. Anyway, our friends at Munson also thought it was funny, and since Marty the Brentford toilet rep was there instead of Gary the Kenner toilet rep, they thought, Why not have Marty take a look at our inventory and see what’s what? Forty items and ten categories later, Marty walks out of there with the biggest order of the year. And all he did was show up for work.”
Jack drops his plaque. It hits the bumper on the way down and thuds on the pavement. “I had this thing planned about Gila monsters, but it’s getting late, comrades, and I’ve had a lot to drink.”
A smattering of applause. Rocha and Mumbry laughing, shaking Costello’s hand. The guys from Munson shaking his hand. Other wholesalers, plumbers, Lamrock.
“Somebody call Jack a cab,” Costello says.
Saturday afternoon. The girls on their way. Costello has shocked them with an actual plan: dinner in [REDACTED].
But first a bit of sun. The pool turquoise. The glass door sliding. The roof, the wall, the wires. This house is his. Or the bank’s, but he still lives here.
Costello hops on the raft, pushes off, lights up. The telephone pole in the corner of the yard, like the mainmast of a ship.
He rolls off the raft and into the pure blue water. Down he goes to the bottom of the deep end. His eyes open, burning. The lizard pale from the chemicals. She never complained, not once, her hair falling out, the hideousness of her round beautiful face. That final moment, her green eyes popping open, and all the bile spilling out of her. A goddam captain, going down with the ship.
Back on the raft, the lizard in his hand, pale and soggy, tiny black eyes and tiny white feet. Costello throws it over the wall and hears it splash in his neighbor’s pool. 

