THE TREE LINE, KANSAS, 1934
By David Means
Five days of trading the field glasses and taking turns crawling back into the trees to smoke out of sight. Five days on surveillance, waiting to see if by some chance Carson might return to his uncle’s farm. Five days of listening to the young agent, named Barnes, as he recited verbatim from the file: Carson has a propensity to fire warning shots; it has been speculated that Carson’s limited vision in his left eye causes his shots to carry to the right of his intended target; impulse control somewhat limited. Five days of listening to Barnes recount the pattern of heists that began down the [REDACTED] Panhandle and proceeded north all the way up to [REDACTED], then back down to [REDACTED], until the trail tangled up in the fumbling ineptitude of the [REDACTED]. For five days, Barnes talked while Lee, older, hard-bitten, nodded and let the boy play out his theories. Five days reduced to a single conversation.
Years later, retired, sitting on his porch looking out at the lake while his wife clanked pots in the kitchen, whistling softly to herself, he’d know, or think he knew, that even at that moment in [REDACTED], turning to speak to Barnes, he’d had a sense that one day he’d be retired and reflecting on that particular point in time—back near the tree line—because that was what you did after spending much of your career trying to think the way other folks might think. When you retired, you turned back into yourself and tried to settle into not thinking about the way others thought. You rested your feet and sat around tweezing apart past scenarios that had ended up with you alive and others dead, taking advantage of the fact that you were still alive while those others weren’t, and in doing so relishing—with a religious sort of glory—the fact that you retained the ability to look out at a lake on a clean, quiet summer day while the wind riffled the far side and a single boat oared gently, dragging a fishing line.
Five days he had listened to Barnes, staying quiet, holding back on saying much until that last day, when Barnes turned and said, Look, Lee, all we’re doing out here is wasting time. Carson isn’t coming. I mean, hell, let’s face it, it’s unlikely that he’s going to arrive down that road. And so Lee said, finally, Well, if Carson comes it’ll be because he has weighed the big risk of us being here against an even bigger payoff. As you’ve pointed out, he’s not the type who would come back just to see kinfolk. He’s not the type—and, Christ, we’ve seen enough of those—who would put himself at risk to visit an uncle on a failed farm. If he comes, it’ll be to get a stash of loot. No other reason. But for these guys that’s good enough. If he’s got some loot out here, he’ll take the risk. It’s that simple. Now I’m going back to have a smoke in the trees and take a break. And without waiting for a response he crawled through the weeds to the trees, where, released from his obligations to the younger agent, he stretched the stiffness out of his legs, lit a cigarette, and felt, for the first time, the tingle deep in his gut as it went to work, zeroing in—as only a gut can zero—on the following particulars:
(1) The imperceptibly slow shift of light over the past few days as the dirt-clod shadows stretched across the field and then shortened gradually until, after the sun’s zenith, they lengthened while the sky loosened its grip on the sun and a violet, ruddy marl blushed the horizon.
(2) The way the road spread out of the vanishing point, exposing its mouth to the farm while, at the same time, tapering back into the quivers of heat in a manner that made it hard, and at times impossible, to watch.
(3) The sight of Carson’s Uncle Vern, coming out on Monday, and again on Thursday, shuffling with a slight hobble, bent-backed, moving around the house and disappearing from sight for a few minutes (causing an uptick of unease in both men as they waited for him to reappear), then backing the tractor out with the plow attached and tilling, it seemed, for the sake of toil itself, because it was clear that the land was dead and worthless. Plowing the same patch on Thursday that he had plowed on Monday, sending up a cloud of dust that hovered in the air.
(4) The unseemliness, in an F.B.I. agent, of Barnes’s occasional outbursts (Shit, what a waste of time!). Always a phrase or two about the pointlessness of the assignment in relation to the use of time and to things he might otherwise be doing: e.g., tracking that syndicate thug—John Bradfield—whose file, loaded with tips, was tucked in his desk drawer back at headquarters.
(5) The gradual broadening of his own awareness of the farm and its connection to the web of cat roads, as they were called, both northwest and southeast, along with even smaller roads whose purpose had been lost to time: old wagon trails and Indian paths that arrayed themselves as potential routes all the way to the outer edges of the [REDACTED] stockyards. (Off-map roads were the bane of the [REDACTED].) These cat roads had started to impress themselves on Lee’s awareness during drives back to town, passing gaps in the fence line where they emerged out of the grass. On Monday, Barnes said, So far as I can see, he has one way in, and one way out. Which would make Carson even more of a fool if he tried to come here to visit. On Tuesday, he said, This is a trap. One way in, one way out. He’s not the type to play into a trap. (That’s the way it worked: an inexperienced young agent often re-stated what he thought was obvious about the setup, repeated the known details again and again, as if to assure himself that everything was positioned correctly, that what had been imagined in the [REDACTED] office—using maps and line drawings—properly matched the [REDACTED] reality.)
(6) A flaw inherent in the dynamic between the two partners as they lay side by side, staying as still as possible while the weeds—mostly wild oat grass, with a patch of Queen Anne’s lace—shifted, languorously translating the breeze on Wednesday (the only day with wind) into motion, as if the world, unfurling itself with stunning elegance, were preparing for the imminent arrival of God, or gun, his gut told him, in those exact words. Something big was coming, the wind had said. It was a sure giveaway. Any experienced lawman knew that the wind rising like that had to mean something. But Lee had been distracted by the kid. After all, you read the landscape for signs: the way a road stays quiet for a certain amount of time; a lonely weed patch in the Four Corners region that, after three days of relative calm, is suddenly darkened by one of those odd cloud formations, not a thunderhead but a cloud that seems to refuse to achieve its full growth, giving you, as you sit in the car chewing a toothpick, a sense that something is amiss. 

(7) It wasn’t simply what Barnes said, or his awkward inability to establish any kind of mature silence, but also the way he rounded his words, polishing them up, buffing them into a style of elocution that clashed with the landscape. He spoke with the sucked-in-cheeks manner of a man holding forth with unearned authority, as he said: It’s highly unlikely, Lee, regarding the patterns set forth by his previous movements, that he would alas venture, as I’ve said a few times before, to risk arriving at a location known to fit into his past movements. Snapping off his clean white teeth, his voice had a gee-whiz youthfulness until, catching hold, it shifted to take on the hardscrabble surroundings. Then he tightened in his phrases and tried as best he could to sound world-weary (never looking at Lee at those moments; turning away from Lee’s eyes, flecked gray, crinkled and set deep in the folds of his face, old-[REDACTED]-lawman style), saying, Here’s how I see it, sir: Carson started out a phony. Just another kid trying to make a name for himself as a stickup man. No real heart. He tried to look the Robin Hood part by handing over some cash to a few clodhopper bank customers. But by the time he got [REDACTED] he had too much heat. Now he has that shoot-first style that comes out of knowing the truth. If you know the truth, you shoot first. At that point, Barnes’s voice shifted again, sliding naturally into the rut of his thoughts, opening up to a deeper, more speculative tone as he droned on and on (or so it seemed to Lee, who kept his eyes on the farm), explaining how Carson was a man with a sense of self, who knew who he was in a way the old yeggs didn’t. Carson operated out of a deeper psychology, playing himself off what he knew others were thinking, not only playing the patterns of the law, which were usually pretty easy to figure out, but also what the law, most likely, would speculate; so that it was unlikely, say, that he’d come back around—even if there was loot involved—to dig something up at his uncle’s farm, knowing instinctually that we would have it covered . . . (Lee half listened, trying to blank out the kid’s voice, focussing his attention away from the house and onto the road, which came in straight from the horizon. The horizon, he understood, was a foe. The horizon altered the odds. The horizon—always mesmerizing if stared at too long—might take over the stakeout. Lee had once been beaten by the horizon in Waco, working freelance for the governor, tracking a killer named Newfield. Two days staking out a shack until his eyes lingered too long on the horizon—twilight—and got stuck there while his prey took advantage and, before Lee could shake himself awake, roared off in a rooster tail of dust.) Barnes was still talking, saying, This guy knows we’re looking for patterns, and he’s even considered, I’d venture to say, the idea that we’d expect him not to come back here, and in expecting him to expect us to expect him not to come back, he’d expect that we’d take that expectation into consideration—the potential pattern—and stake out his old uncle’s farm. You see, Lee, I think he has a self-awareness that a man like Hoover doesn’t. (And you do, Lee thought, lifting his head, nodding, feeling—again—an intense hankering for a cigarette.) 

Years later at his summer cottage in [REDACTED], sitting on the porch and staring out at the water, listening to Emma inside cooking or watching television, he’d go back to that conversation, holding it out for examination and wonder if he had misstepped at that point. Shut your yap, he might have said. Clam up, kid. You can talk until you’re out of words, but, no matter what you might say or think, the fact that there is a chance Carson might show is the only thing that matters. Even later, Lee would understand that by holding back on his side of the argument he had allowed for a much more dangerous distraction, a paternal vibration—unsettling and unspoken—between the two of them. (That kid was like a son to me, he told his wife. He annoyed me the way I used to annoy my old man. Except the old man would’ve boxed my ears off.)
That afternoon, as he crawled back to Barnes, the gut feeling worked its way up his throat and struggled into his head. Note: A gut feeling finally becomes a hunch when it is transmuted into the form of clear, precise, verbal statements uttered aloud to a receptive listener—internal or external—who responds in kind. A hunch twists inside the sinews and bones, integrating itself into the physicality of the moment, whereas a gut feeling can only struggle to become a hunch, and, once it does, is recognized in retrospect as a gut feeling. Before Lee could express his hunch, Barnes wiped his brow with his handkerchief and said, Jesus, Lee, where’d you go? Into town for a bite? And Lee said, No, just a smoke. Anything happening out there? Barnes raised the field glasses up, lowered them, pursed his lips as if in deep thought, and then said, in a newly formed sarcastic voice, Hell, you missed the whole thing, Lee. Carson came rolling up with the entire gang. I think Pretty Boy Floyd was along for the ride. Women and all. They had a picnic over there by the windmill—fried chicken, watermelon, apple pie, the works. Shot a few guns into the air in celebration, dug up the loot (you were right about that), and took off. I let them, on account of you not being here. I said to myself, Agent Lee’s smoking a few back there and I’m not inclined to bother the man. Now, if you don’t mind, I’m going to go back and have a cigarette myself. Then he crawled off through the weeds and disappeared into the trees, leaving Lee alone to watch the farm.
Fate operates retroactively. By trading smoking breaks, the two men had tried to wedge apart the tedium as well as they could, breaking the days up, sustaining attention on the field and house according to the dictates of training, knowing that at least one of them had to keep his eyes fixed on the farm, because if they both looked away, even for a minute, it would in theory betray Agent Jones and Agent Tate, who had drawn the night watch, drinking coffee from a vacuum flask, nudging each other awake, coming out to the road in the morning, bone-tired, saying, Nothing moved out there, not even the darkness. Not a damn thing, a total zero. Good luck, boys.
Years later, in the reductive, slowed-down replay of memory, the Buick sedan—stolen fresh off a lot in [REDACTED]—appeared suddenly, having come in off a cat road that ran west and hit the main road a quarter mile from the Carson farm, deep enough in the quivering heat to provide the element of surprise. First, just a glint of chrome radiator, a spark of light where the road bled itself into plowed field. Then, in a matter of seconds, the glint turned into a full-blown automobile, swinging alongside the house, roaring to a stop, rocking heavily as it disgorged three men. (Lee used the word in his report, saying, The car disgorged three men, who spread out to reconnoitre the homestead.) Carson appeared a moment later, stepping from the car with his hands spread wide, limping slightly (the Michigan City ricochet wound, festering), glancing around nervously as he directed the men while Lee, hidden in the grass, instantly understood the following:
(A) Four years of heists and encounters with law enforcement had given Carson’s men an innate sense that certain probabilities—a stakeout, limited to two or three men—were best dealt with in a swift, heedless manner that included overwhelming firepower brought to bear on weary [REDACTED] men who most likely had been in surveillance mode for days, hiding themselves in the grass or behind trees. (They knew we were there, Lee said later. They figured we’d be one, maybe two at the most. We were shorthanded and they understood that fact. I froze up. My judgment regarding how much field was between my position and the house was skewed. I was alone. Outgunned.)
(B) As Carson’s men charged forward, they felt keenly, albeit intuitively, the way surveillance compressed time, tightening it in—days of inaction punctuated only by occasional shit breaks, piss breaks, smoke breaks and drink breaks, food breaks and stretch breaks interrupted only by small, inconsequential peripheral actions observed. (City men came into a farm scene like fire through ice, Lee would think later. They had that city jaunt, whereas we had forgotten the way time worked outside the confinement of the farm.)
(C) Carson’s men strode ahead, as if through the streets of [REDACTED], their black suit coats even blacker in the hazy light. They had an elegant disregard for the landscape that came from the fact that most of them had been born and raised on farms or in dusty small towns, and had pushed that part of their lives behind them, learning how to stand in the city, adjusting cuffs, snapping hat brims, touching ties while shrouding their true intentions in wisecracks, moving around constantly in order to belie the static silence of the scene at hand. While the men closed in on Lee’s position, Carson stepped slowly to the right of the barn, looking down at his feet, moving, despite his slight limp, with an ease that bespoke his desire, even in this setting, to look casual, lifting his head to sniff the air before continuing along the side of the house. (He started at the southern end of the house, put one foot in front of the other, heel to toe, marking carefully, trying to locate the spot where the loot was buried, Lee would write in his report.)
Back in the tree line, Barnes had smoked two cigarettes while he took in the view: a slight glen in the trees formed by the creek, rimmed by a small fringe of green fern. The horizon was mercifully lost in the trees, so from that vantage—factoring in his profound sense that the stakeout was futile—it was likely that he felt a deeper relaxation settle in, an all-knowing sense of calm that came from being young and inexperienced, and it was probably this, combined with the pleasure the smoke was giving him, that led him to think that the moment at hand was somehow reflective of the general state of the world. (Far off, the sound of a car engine devoured by land. Far off, a muffled car-door slam.) Whatever had been acting on Barnes’s gut over the several days of the stakeout combined with the quiet beauty back there, amplified by the barrenness of the farm in relation to the humiliation (yes, a stakeout was an act of humility that could easily, if not approached properly, turn to humiliation), had, in turn, combined with a natural desire in the young agent and caused him to break free from standard operating procedure, to move naturally, so that the kid walked out of the tree line that day standing straight and tall, moving with a sure manner, trusting his gut, struggling ahead of his own awareness (dulled, Lee would later imagine, by the persistent tedium of a scene that had gone on, with the exception of the old man plowing on Monday, and again on Thursday, and the wind on Wednesday, for what had seemed, to his youthful mind, an eternity). He stepped forward into a single, ferocious moment. He stepped forward into a fury of gunfire while his mind—young and foolish but beautiful nonetheless—remained partly back in the woods, taking in the solitude, pondering the way the future felt when a man was rooted to one place, waiting for an unlikely outcome, one that, rest assured, would never, ever arrive. 

