THE LANDLORD
By Wells Tower

At ten-thirty, Armando Colón comes to my office. It lifts my mood to see him. Armando lives in one of the worst properties I own, an apartment complex so rife with mold and vermin that, when I sent a man to clean a vacant unit there, he developed an eye infection that didn’t clear up for a month. You would never know it to look at Armando. His shirt is crisp, his stomach is trim, and his hairline is freshly razored into aristocratic darts. He operates a squeezeball with his right hand. His cologne, applied with restraint, has a wholesome cedar scent, and his presence in the stale air of my office is a force of orderliness and industry.
Armando has been my tenant for two years. He has great ambitions in the business world. He always pays his rent in person, because it affords him an opportunity to sit in the red leather client’s chair and palaver with me as though we were having a high-management powwow. Often, he brings one of his motivational books with him. He will say, “May I sow a seed into your life, Mr. Pruitt?” And then he’ll read aloud an epigram or two: “Long-term results are mainly determined by short-term decisions”; “There is nothing more futile than trying to stop a corpse from stinking.”
Today, Armando has left his literature at home. He is nervous and abashed. Armando owes me thirteen hundred and fifty dollars, three months’ rent, and he has probably come here to determine whether I will evict him when the debt grows, as of the first, to eighteen hundred.
“I don’t feel good about myself, Mr. Pruitt,” he says. “I don’t feel good messing you around. I don’t mean to disrespect you. A man doesn’t let his debts run up.”
“Yet here we are.”
“Check it out, though. I’m here with good news. I’ve been in dialogue with my pastor about my situation, and through the blessing and favor of my church, I can get you what I owe.”
He passes me some paperwork on letterhead of the Family of the Infinite Redeemer. The church’s rent-arrears team seems to know its business. The forms ask rigorous questions about Armando’s rental history, his lease term, the amount of his deposit, the number of bedrooms in his apartment, whether there is pool access. I answer these questions, and in the space provided I write a brief note praising Armando’s agreeableness as a tenant, and explaining what little he’s shared with me about the extended family he supports in Cali, [REDACTED].
Armando reads the comments, and then looks at me. His mouth is a taut line, pursed with the pain of this humiliating errand. I can feel him building toward some grandiose pledge or apology that I lack the energy to hear. His pumping of the squeezeball quickens.
“You’re really giving that thing hell, Armando.”
“I don’t idle well,” he says, a country phrase that he picked up who knows where.
He lingers. Armando is a proud man, and he wants to restore our relationship to its old footing, equal businessfolk. His gaze lights on my shirt.
“A man like you should get his shirts tailored,” he says.
The shirt was tailored, but that was two years ago, when I owned fifty-three properties. I own nineteen now. At first, the pain of financial exposure was an articulate anxiety. But, after a while, I’d called myself so many names that they ran out of bite. Now all that combusted equity registers only as numb heat. Every waking moment, my scalp throbs at the root of each hair. My ribs give off a queasy warmth that kills my appetite. I’ve lost thirty pounds without a stroke of exercise.
“Get me that eighteen hundred dollars and I’ll get a new shirt.”
“Got to,” Armando says. “As a matter of fact, I’m putting together a clothing line, Mr. Pruitt. I notice you don’t wear a tie. My suits will be uniquely designed so they don’t need a tie. Very sharp, very clean.” Armando spreads his hands in a horizontal flourish, as though displaying letters across a marquee: “Celebrate being a man. Every day. With Armando. Armando Colón. Signature Collection.”
I thank Armando for coming in. He shakes with his left hand so as not to interrupt his program with the squeezeball. His palm is dry. My knuckles creak in his grasp.
As Armando is leaving, Todd Toole comes in with Jason Bell. Todd is a carpenter and rent collector, and the foreman of my maintenance team. He has worked for me for several years. I hired Jason only last month. He is young, though, as far as I can tell, he’s a willing worker.
“That’s the dude who stays at Kado Street?” Todd asks, jerking his head in the direction of Armando Colón’s departure.
“Yep.”
“He pay?”
“No, but it’s all right. His church is going to cover the back rent.”
Todd gives me a look of pure disgust. “You just let them fuck you, Coates. The only explanation is you must like it, you pogue. You just let them fuck you raw. They pick you clean and piss on your bones, and you go, ‘Mmm, thank you, that feels nice,’ you goof.”
Todd is in his sixties, and he is a venomous human being. He is angry that I don’t feel the same bile toward his co-workers or my tenants as he does. He is angry that, owing to the frailty of his liver and esophagus, he has only a couple of dozen good drunks left in him, and he must spend them wisely. He is angry that he once went to jail for shooting his ex-wife with toilet paper wadded into a .41 Magnum cartridge, which in his opinion did not constitute a deadly weapon. Yet, when Todd can be persuaded to work, he is an artful trim carpenter, and so unappealing to other employers that I’m able to hire him at about one-third the going wage.
In our conversations, Todd says “you dumb motherfucker” the way Jason says “sir.” Our unspoken arrangement is that Todd abuses me freely and I brook it with good cheer. In fact, I’m grateful for his curses, because they are a symptom of his stupidity, and Todd’s stupidity is one of my most precious assets. Toole is the only man I’ve ever hired who is literally too stupid to lie about his hours or cart my roofing tin off to the salvage man.
Todd has come by for money: advance pay and travel expenses for a trip to [REDACTED], where he and Jason will spend a month making cosmetic repairs to a cottage I inherited from my parents. The house has twelve hundred feet of water frontage on the granite-bottomed lake where I learned to swim. The mortgage was settled long ago. I’d planned to retire there, and it pains and perplexes me to have no option but to sell the place. One day you are so apprehensive about debt and monthly payments that you’re reluctant to take out a credit card, and the next you’re a man with hot bowels and twelve properties in greater [REDACTED] that are at risk of seizure by the bank. Suddenly, there is nothing to be done but send Todd Toole and Jason Bell to [REDACTED] to paint and replace molding and re-Sheetrock the ceiling in the cottage’s great room. With any luck, they’ll conceal evidence of a roof leak that is too costly to fix.
I trust Todd to do a good job out West. I do not necessarily trust him to make it out of state without being arrested by the highway patrol.
“What’ll fuck me, Todd, is if you’re stuck in Winston with a bracelet on your ankle when the listing goes up next month. You got your license on you? Your registration up to date?”
Here, Todd leans across my desk and thrusts his face into mine. “Open your eyes,” he says. “What do you see, Coates?”
I see blue eyes of startling clarity and nearly unlined skin that doesn’t show a single dilated pore. Somehow, Todd has found the secret of eternal youth. The formula is fourteen gallons of Pepsi-Cola a week, heavy use of Black & Mild cigarillos, and hatred of all living creatures.
“I don’t know, Todd, what?”
“You blind son of a bitch, you see a mustache on me, Coates? Do you see any beard? I put the cap on my truck, too. Ain’t a cop in the world can’t see me, man. I am rolling incognito. Now, I hope you have my cash.”
I hand Todd a billing envelope containing four hundred and fifty dollars. He counts the money and pockets it. Then he blows his nose into the envelope. He checks the cellophane window and puts the envelope into his pocket along with the bills. Jason Bell watches this procedure.
“What are you looking at, you stupid motherfucker?” Todd asks him.
Jason has five inches and forty pounds of muscle on Todd and is less than half his age. His brow dips. “You want to repeat that, sir?”
Todd balks. It flashes in his black and cloudy mind that, whatever our agreement regarding his abuses, he has no such compact with the younger man, whom he hasn’t known a week. It is a bad moment. Do I see panic in his eyes?
Fortunately for Toole, the caged bird beside my desk lets out a raucous shriek. The diversion lets Toole put aside the business with Bell and instead make an enemy of the parakeet. “Now, what the fuck is that bird, Coates?” Toole hisses at the cage. “Who the hell gets a bird? It’s like having loud fish.”
My daughter has come from [REDACTED] to live with me. Rhoda is thirty-one, and she used to work in advertising, but now she’s a painter and a maker of other art that I’m not sure how to describe. Her field is bummers. Rhoda’s past exhibitions include leukemia-cluster art, floating-yuan art, water-rights art, and mental-health-funding-cuts art, which was piles of clothes painted bronze and rigged up with speakers that yelled. She has also made a lot of hand art and hair art. Eight years ago, shortly into her new career, while getting the hang of a radial-arm saw, Rhoda severed the index, middle, and ring fingers of her left hand. The surgeons reattached them, and Rhoda recovered nearly complete range of motion, but the shock of the injury caused some of her hair to fall out. She keeps her head shaved close now, a style that improves the plainness of face she inherited from me. Bald, she looks about fifteen years older than she is, but also terrifyingly smart and owlish, Lady Malcolm McDowell. 

Rhoda claims that she came home because she ran out of money, yet she drove here in a C-Class Mercedes with only eighteen thousand three hundred miles on it. She hasn’t asked me for a dime. I’m sure she has more in the bank than I do, and not a hundredth of my debts. She’s come here for her work, to do a new body of paintings, relating to: “To some extent, your problems with the real-estate stuff, and my parallel humiliation at having to move in with you. But in a broader sense it’s about our collective lack of integrity and total fucking childishness in the wake of the financial crisis, i.e., the national epidemic of petulance and bratty outrage over the fact that poor people don’t get to buy castles on credit anymore, that execs don’t get G.D.P.-size bonuses, that not just any housewife with a real-estate license gets to be a millionaire, and that you can’t stick a chopstick in a dog turd and sell it at Gagosian for the price of a yacht. ‘A Pestilence of Petulance’ is what I’m tempted to call it but probably shouldn’t.”
Her first full day here, Rhoda took her camera on an exhaustive search of my house and grounds, looking for material. She likes the yard full of yellowed sod that failed to take. She likes the massive oak limb that lies on my back deck. It fell two months ago from its dead but stately parent. The limb crushed the grill, knocked out some balusters, and crimped the copper finials on the rail posts. Second Piedmont Savings & Loan won’t let me rework the balloon loan that, six months ago, raised my mortgage payment to six thousand dollars. I haven’t sent them a check since. They’ll take the house pretty soon. To hell with it—it’s their oak limb now. This is good petulance for Rhoda. She snapped a dozen pictures of the limb and of the scattered glass fragments from the window on the grill.
When my telephone makes the text-message sound, and then makes that sound again every five minutes for an hour, I know that something has gone wrong at the home of Connie Legg.
The first messages are complaints about cockroaches. The later messages are complaints about my character. The campaign won’t stop until I go over, so I grab the insecticide pump rig, which Todd usually operates, and I drive to the house that Connie rents from me.
A potluck is happening on the porch when I get there. Connie is standing next to a thing of salad dressing, lecturing a young man with matted hair. “What this is, it’s a kombucha vinaigrette,” she tells him. “There’s some active yeast in it, a little bit of cumin, flaxseed oil. What you’re gonna want to do, you’re gonna want to shake it up and put it on these greens, which are dandelion and mache.”
She sees me. “There he is, my savior.”
I follow her inside. Connie is a handsome woman in her late forties. She lives in a good part of town, in an Eisenhower ranch for which she pays six hundred dollars a month, a square deal. When she first moved in, I had plans for a romance with Connie Legg, because she means well, from time to time, and because the sight of her bottom touches my heart. But I’ve learned that it doesn’t work when you’re their landlord. With Connie and the other single-woman renters in their middle years, it’s like we went through a bad divorce before I even got to hold their hands. I’m responsible for their comfort and security, and they’re bitter that I don’t do more to keep them comfortable and secure.
I took Connie to a movie once, and we had a good time. Not long after that, she removed a floor grate in her house and stepped into the air return, and tried to sue me for her scraped shin. Connie runs a Third World knickknack store, but she believes herself to be an expert on the law and on real-estate statutes. I think she intended the lawsuit not as a malicious act but as an expensive, high-level chat about the concept of liability and the Minimum Housing Code.
In the kitchen, while I peer under the sink, Connie fills me with more legal knowledge. “If I choose to, I can stop giving you rent for this place anytime I want to. Did you know that, Coates? I only pay you out of courtesy. By law I don’t have to pay you a cent. Did you know that there is not a word in the U.S. Constitution that protects the right of a citizen to charge a fellow-citizen for a place to live?”
“I hadn’t heard that, Connie.”
“That’s because it wouldn’t suit you to hear it, Coates. It goes against your interests. See, look at that, there they go.”
I’ve sprayed a jet of poison beneath the sink, and now a horde of about a hundred baby roaches are teeming up the backsplash, fleeing into the cupboards.
“Have you ever seen anything so disgusting?” Connie asks. “And when I’m not looking at them I’m smelling them. They have a smell.”
“Well, it’s just these little guys, at least. Not such a big deal. I can knock them right out.” In fact, Connie’s is a serious infestation. A large roach is not necessarily cause for worry. He may have come in from outside, seeking water. But when you see a lot of little babies like this you know you have a breeding ground. I notice that Connie stores her cheese and butter on the counter, Europe style. I’ll have to put the house under contract with an exterminator. At least two months’ rent taken care of there.
Connie goes back to the potluck, and I empty the sprayer in her kitchen. When I’m leaving, Connie hails me over to her salad station. “You look skinny, Coates. Why don’t you take a plate?”
I don’t really want any of Connie’s leaves or brown grains, but to refuse the offer would give her cause for resentment. I heap some stuff into a Chinet bowl. She thrusts the salad dressing into my hand. “This is a kombucha vinaigrette,” she tells me. “There’s some active yeast in it, a little bit of cumin, and flaxseed oil. Shake it up and put it on these greens.”
Connie Legg is a woman who believes in the quick dollar. So far, she has tried to get me into Quixtar (an Amway spinoff), a farm share, a meat subscription, and a license to sell a product called Xanthone Soda. Her salad dressing, I’m sure of it, is another scheme. I make for my car with my food, the tank and spray wand clanking on my back.
“Coates!” she calls after me.
“Yes?”
“How about we get a drink next week?”
“For sure!” I say, and pull the car door shut.
The picture that develops on Rhoda’s canvas is not my oak limb but the Creature from the Black Lagoon.
“You remember when you took me to see this?” Rhoda asks. “I was maybe eight. You made us leave the theatre because I was crying. You were super pissed, because you’d deliberately sought out a boring, hokey movie that wouldn’t freak me out, but every time the creature came on, it just scared the holy shit out of me. Some things I went through with Heinrich just reminded me of that.”
“Aha,” I say. This is the first I’ve heard of Heinrich.
“See, I just had this crazy revelation about why I was so freaked out. I don’t know if you knew this or not, but back then I’d gotten into the habit of sneaking into your closet and checking out those old porns you kept in there.”
This was a stash left over from college, a few passed-around copies of Oui and some others. Yellow, bright-lit, not-nice stuff. Women on the john. My ex-wife, Joanie, Rhoda’s mother, was always after me to throw them out, but I held on to them to make some point that is lost to me now.
“I was totally obsessed with those magazines. Every time you left the house, I was curled up in your porn closet like a squirrel. But at the same time I had this massive, Old Testament-magnitude guilt about it, like I was doing something deeply, satanically wrong by looking at this stuff that you were presumably also getting off on. Incest trauma by proxy. So anyway, the reason I started losing my shit at ‘Creature from the Black Lagoon’ is that the movie is so clearly about the gruesomeness of the sexual id. Not that I was thinking in terms of id at eight or whatever, but I still got it that the creature is pretty obviously a walking compound genital.”
“Is that when there’s a bone poking out?”
“Just look at it. See how glans-ish the head is? The mouth is patently a vulva. And all these scrotely wrinkles here. There’s no way it wasn’t a deliberate resonance on the director’s part. I was sure you picked that movie to fuck with me, because you’d found out what I was up to with the magazines and you knew what a disgusting little kid I was, which you pretty much confirmed when you yanked my arm out of the socket, dragging me to the exit because I wouldn’t stop screaming.”
“Rhoda.”
“So anyway, more than you want to know, but it got to a point with Heinrich where it was clear that he’d rather take a hot cinder in the eye than have sex with me. I’d try with him, and he would literally push me away, and this cold wash of self-disgust would come over me, this crippling rinse of sex-shame that somehow was the exact same sensation I had sitting next to you and watching ‘Creature from the Black Lagoon.’ ”
“For the record, I wasn’t trying to show you a movie about a compound genital,” I say.
“My shrink would be interested to hear you say that.”
“Anyway, what’s this painting got to do with the economy?”
“Maybe fifteen grand, give or take.”
Rhoda is up at dawn, filling my house with the smell of oil paint and a confusing music that has no beat, language, or tune. She has been curt with me the past few days, and I wonder how long she intends to stay here. I rise, put on my sap-spangled work pants, and decide to get the oak tree off my deck. There is satisfaction in clearing away the limb, the hard wood’s helplessness against the chainsaw teeth, the albino purity of the sawdust on my shoes. But it’s a fraudulent satisfaction. My latent motive in at last dealing with the limb, it occurs to me, is to oppress Rhoda with the sound of real work.
When the job is finished, I do not go inside but instead take a stroll around the neighborhood. The full autumn inferno is still weeks away, but the maples advertise its approach hysterically, in glow-stick shades of ruby and chartreuse. I walk down Hawgood Street and cross Pepper Lane, the drop-off point of the neighborhood’s invisible property-value butte. At the corner stands a modular house in lengthwise cross-section. My friend Tim Stroud used to live here with his wife, Beth. I passed many afternoons on their porch, drawn by the warm company and the fiery ginger beer that Beth used to brew. They divorced three years ago. Afterward, Tim took a trip to [REDACTED]. He came back with a twenty-year-old gap-toothed cherub he found dancing in a bar. In [REDACTED] the girl shared an apartment with ten relatives, yet in [REDACTED] a manufactured home with two gables and a sunroom was not sufficient to her needs. So Tim sold this lot, and they moved into a condominium with fixed-pane windows and electric air fresheners that whir from the wall plugs, putting out the aroma of new diapers.
Half of Tim’s home went to the landfill two months ago, but, to the neighborhood’s chagrin, the lot’s new owner has lost interest in hauling away the remaining portion. The wind turns the ceiling fan in the halved living room and herds leaves along the kitchen counters. Looking at the flayed house, even in passing, you feel the sordid burden of unsolicited intimacy. 

Last year, I had to have my prostate whittled, and, ever since, my bladder has stopped giving much advance notice. Suddenly, it feels close to rupture. I cross Tim’s yard and, grabbing hold of a steel framing member, swing myself into the open corridor. The air in the bathroom is close with mildew but not unpleasant. Though it’s unlikely anyone will ever set foot in here again, I nevertheless want to be a gracious guest. I don’t use the decommissioned toilet but aim a neat stream into the sink drain, hardly splashing the basin. I shut the flimsy door behind me and hop down to the lawn.
The day’s chill is solidifying. When I get home, I build a fire for Rhoda, to warm her while she works. The limb I cut up this morning makes a lively pyre, having died and seasoned for two years before it hit the ground.
The telephone rings at 5 a.m. It is Jason Bell. “I’m sorry, Mr. Pruitt,” he says. “There wasn’t any other way.”
“Other way where?”
“He rode me and rode me. The first couple of days, he was all right. But then he started in.”
“Todd?”
“I mean, I couldn’t pick up a nail without ‘Broke-dick this’ or ‘Cob-ass motherfucker that.’ I thought maybe a little cabin-fever relief might settle him down. So last night we headed up to Pocatello. We went to a place and we were swapping rounds at the bar. Only every time I got him one he’d put it down somewhere and forget I’d bought one for him. The whole twenty miles back, it was ‘You Jew motherfucker, you Jew bastard, can’t even buy me one damn drink, you cheap son of a bitch.’ I took a hundred dollars out of my pocket and threw it on his lap. That’s how honked off I was, but it didn’t make any difference. He kept right on. Then I said, ‘O.K., Todd, I’ve had it. Do we need to settle this right now?’ 

“He was all, ‘You goddam right we need to settle this thing.’ So I pulled the truck off the road.”
“You shouldn’t have done that, Jason. You can’t let Todd get to you. If you ignore him, he runs out of steam.”
“I tried that. He just wasn’t running out was the problem.”
“So what did you do?”
“Well, sir, first I beat him with my right hand until I broke a knuckle. Then I beat him with my left hand until I broke another knuckle. Then I drove to [REDACTED]. I’m in [REDACTED] now.”
“Where’s Todd, Jason?”
“Well, he’s still in [REDACTED].”
“Where in [REDACTED]?”
“On the side of the road, I guess. Maybe he walked somewhere by now.”
“You didn’t kill him, did you?”
“No, sir, he was still cussing me when I drove off.”
“You’ve got his truck?”
“Yes, sir, I do.”
“You need to go back there, Jason.”
“Mr. Pruitt, there isn’t money that would put me back in [REDACTED].”
Colleagues, I miss them:
Harold Lane stabbed himself in the heart; no hesitation wounds. Dan White is doing time for tax evasion. David Butler, a partner at the firm where I used to practice law, took three million dollars from clients’ escrow deposits and disappeared. A year later, the newspaper ran a report that he’d been seen in Buenos Aires with a young brown man on his arm. Reading that, I let out a cheer and pounded the counter in the doughnut shop. Six months later, the police found David in a public park in [REDACTED]. He was standing barefoot in a line of people waiting to get a free peanut-butter sandwich from a teen-age Marxist group. David Butler is doing time now, too, though not in the same place as Dan White.
Rhoda is thirty-two today, which she seems not to care about at all. Her work is not going well. In two weeks, she has made three paintings, all of which depict the Creature from the Black Lagoon. She is in the darkest of moods, and I’m afraid to speak to her. She had terrible rages when she was younger. Once, as a child, she brandished a hatchet at her mother. Perhaps her first drawings would be worth some money now, but none of them survived her childhood. Every time Rhoda got angry, she would tear her pictures from the wall and shred them with her little hands.
Today, she makes me plead with her all morning and afternoon before finally consenting to let me take her out for dinner at a restaurant in the hills. As a special treat, I take the long way, out Route 116, an untrafficked rural byway connecting one-stoplight towns like Snead to no-stoplight towns like Bugleville. The beauty of the land out here is nearly absurd. Full-fed, ale-colored cattle watch us from fields of grass so vivid in the late light that each blade looks hand-tinted. Fall-blooming sneezeweeds dot the ditches, woozy with the weight of their broad red heads.
What Rhoda notices is a roadside billboard showing a crucifix, some digits, and a glowing telephone. “After Abortion: Hope,” the sign reads.
“For the Altoids account,” Rhoda says. “After Abortion: Mints.”
At a scenic lookout, I stop to take in the sunset, a wash of orange strewn with black storm clouds. “It’s a shame you didn’t bring your camera,” I say. Ordinarily, I’m not a connoisseur of country vistas, but now Rhoda has turned me into a ninnyish Ruritan, desperate to get her into a rhapsody over the green dales of her native state.
“I mean,” Rhoda says, “between inventing new viruses and making sure the tides and planets don’t get out of whack, doesn’t it sort of blow your mind that Jesus or whoever still has time for acts of cut-rate sentiment?”
“It seems to me, Rhoda, that [REDACTED], or something, is making you hostile to wonder. What would it take to thrill you? If this doesn’t amaze you, tell me what I could possibly show you to put some wonder in your life.”
Rhoda muses, thrusting out her lower lip in contemplation. “A Pegasus fucking a unicorn,” my daughter finally says.
By the time we reach the restaurant, Rhoda has made me regret the whole dinner mission. She will ridicule the faux-Bavarian décor. There will be snide routines about the local wine. Our table isn’t ready, and I walk ahead of my daughter and take a seat at the bar. To spite her, I order a scuppernong champagne.
“Two,” Rhoda says.
“Need to see your [REDACTED], sweetheart,” the bartender, a square-built woman about my age, says. Rhoda digs for her wallet. “Not you, him,” the woman says, coquetting with me, a surprise.
“Touché,” Rhoda says.
“Don’t you know a compliment when you hear one, honey?” the bartender says to her, as she passes my license back. “What I wouldn’t give to get a man who hides his age so well.”
I have seen Rhoda pull out her longest knives over fainter slights than this. I dread a scene. Instead, my daughter smiles and slips her arm around my neck. “Oh, he’s not my man,” she says, dragging a finger along the rim of my ear. “He has to pay me for it, but I let him have it cheap.”
Todd Toole calls from [REDACTED]. He speaks to me with such urgent penitence that his voice keeps breaking, like a boy’s. He needs cash is the thing. His face took ten stitches and he had to spend his food money at the emergency room. Yet he doesn’t say a word against Jason Bell, who did, as it turns out, make the trip back to [REDACTED]. “You want to hate me over this, Coates, go ahead. But you won’t hate me a hair as much as I hate myself. I know I put the pecker to you, man, but I ain’t had a beer in three days, and I won’t sleep until we’re completely squared away. I intend to make this right.”
This is Todd’s Jekyll face, yet I know that he means everything he says. I’m maybe the last person in Todd’s acquaintance who won’t call the cops when I see him at the door. This means something to him, as it should. This call is not about money but about making sure that he hasn’t irreparably damaged whatever mutant strain of friendship obtains between us. Though Todd is the most terrible person I’ve ever had more than one conversation with, and though I know he’ll be back to vinegar and motherfuckers before his stitches come out, his heart isn’t entirely rotten. I tell him not to worry, that if he keeps his act together I’ll go halves on his hospital tab when he gets home. I sincerely wish a good life for Todd, the way you sincerely wish the ulcers on a growling stray would heal.
The first week of November comes and goes without a check or a phone call from Armando Colón. I try his number and get the watery tones of the “not in service” flute.
I pay a house call to Kado Street. If I were more generous with Rhoda, less dainty about her opinion of me, I would have invited her to come and prop her easel in the yard. This is Rhoda’s kind of place, a bad motor lodge in miniature. Four one-story units of Baptist brick, benignly marred here and there by kids’ graffiti in Easter hues of sidewalk chalk. The yard is a ramp of bald dirt, empty except for a child’s drum set capsized in a tire. Before long, the bank will have this place. But if I get close to asking price for the Pruitt home in [REDACTED], I may buy these apartments back. Forty per cent of what I currently owe would be a fair offer. There is still promise in this neighborhood. It’s just on hold for now.
Armando’s door, No. 3, swings open when I knock, because the knob is gone. When the tenants in No. 4 departed, they left me with the by-products of a homespun brothel: three fragrant mattresses and a thirty-gallon garbage can filled with spent condoms. Armando, the tidy entrepreneur, hasn’t left so much as a discarded matchstick on the floor. No cobwebs in the corners. Pine-Sol in the air. Second Piedmont Savings & Loan, however, will be dismayed to discover what he carried off: the louvred doors from the bedroom closet, the bathroom fixtures, the kitchen faucet, and the stainless-steel double basin. The stove and the refrigerator are missing, too, a pair of bright squares in the linoleum marking their absence. The only sign of Armando’s years between these walls is a Post-it, stuck to the window above the hole in the counter where the sink used to be.
The note is not for me but for him, a bit of affirmation written in his native tongue: “El dinero viene fácilmente y con frecuencia.” I have a little Spanish. “Money comes easily and frequently” is what this means. I put the note in my wallet and I leave it there. 

