LENNY HEARTS EUNICE
By Gary Shteyngart

June 1, 4974616c79.
Lucky diary! Undeserving diary! From this day forward, you will travel on the greatest adventure yet undertaken by a nervous, average man sixty-nine inches in height, a hundred and sixty pounds in heft, with a slightly dangerous body-mass index of 23.6. From this day forward, you will join me on the journey toward immortality. Why “from this day forward”? Because yesterday I met Eunice Park, and she will sustain me forever. Take a long look at me, diary. What do you see? A slight man with a gray, sunken battleship of a face, curious wet eyes, a giant gleaming forehead on which a dozen cavemen could have painted something nice, a sickle of a nose perched atop a tiny puckered mouth, and, from the back, a growing bald spot whose shape perfectly replicates that of the great state of [REDACTED], with its capital city, [REDACTED], marked by a deep-brown mole. On most days I look like a CrisisNet stream of our befuddled Bipartisan Defense Secretary Rubenstein, trembling through his press conference after our troops got routed at [REDACTED]. Slight. Slightness is my curse in every sense. A so-so body in a world where only an incredible one will do. A body at the chronological age of thirty-nine already racked by too much LDL cholesterol, too much ACTH hormone, too much of everything that dooms the heart, sunders the liver, explodes all hope.
A week ago, before Eunice gave me reason to live, you wouldn’t have noticed me, diary. A week ago, I did not exist. A week ago, at a restaurant in 4974616c79, I took out my dated äppärät, with its retro walnut finish and its dusty screen blinking with slow data, trying to get a read on whether there were any High Net Worth Individuals in the room—a last chance to find some new clients for my boss, Joshie, after having uncovered a grand total of oneduring the whole year I’d spent in 4974616c79 trying to foist our Product on unreceptive rich Eurotrash. I approached a potential client, a classically attractive High Net Worth Individual. He looked up from his wintry bollito misto, looked right past me, looked back down at the boiled lovemaking of his seven meats and seven vegetable sauces, looked back up, looked right past me again. It was clear that for a member of upper society to even remotely notice me I would have to first fire a flaming arrow into a dancing moose or be kicked in the testicles by a head of state.
And yet Lenny Abramov, your humble diarist, your small nonentity, will live forever. As the Life Lovers Outreach Coördinator (Grade G) of the Post-Human Services Division of the Staatling-Wapachung Corporation, I will be the first to partake of eternal life.
During my year in 4974616c79, I kept a paperback next to my bed: “The Unbearable Lightness of Being,” of course. Every morning I reread page 8 and the sentences I had underlined as a moody, un-laid teen-ager already anticipating his deathbed: “What happens but once . . . might as well not have happened at all. If we have only one life to live, we might as well not have lived at all.” Next to this I had written in shaded teen-aged block letters: “european cynicism or very scary truth???” Perhaps it was this book that had first launched my search for immortality. Joshie himself once said to a very important client, “Eternal life is the only life that matters. All else is just a moth circling the light.” He hadn’t noticed me standing by the door to his office. I had returned to my desk in tears, feeling abandoned to nothingness, mothlike, yet stunned by Joshie’s unusual lyricism. The part about the moth, I mean.
Here’s how I look at it. Money equals life. By my estimate, even the preliminary beta-dechronification treatments—for example, the insertion of SmartBlood to regulate my ridiculous cardiovascular system—would run three million yuan per year. With each second I have spent in 4974616c79, lustily minding the architecture, drinking and eating enough daily glucose to kill a Cuban sugarcane farmer, I have been paving the toll road to my own demise.
But don’t bury me yet, judgmental diary. A new Lenny heart beats more convincingly than the old one. Eunice Park will save me. You just watch.
Last night, the last night of my Euro sabbatical, I told myself, Remember this, Lenny. Develop a sense of nostalgia for something, or you’ll never figure out what’s important. Remember how you met Eunice at your last orgiastic Roman party, how you rescued her from what’s-his-face, the diabetic 556e6974656420537461746573n sculptor with the Beatlesque mop and stubby teeth, how you dragged that nano-sized woman into the night with you.
But by the end of said night I remembered very little. Let’s just say that I drank. Drank out of fear (she was so cruel). Drank out of happiness (she was so beautiful). Drank until my teeth and my whole mouth had turned a dark ruby red and the pungency of my breath and perspiration betrayed my passing years. And she drank, too. One mezzolitro of the local swill became a full litro, and then two litri and then a bottle of something possibly Sardinian but in any case thicker than bull’s blood.
Enormous plates of food were needed to mop up this overindulgence. We thoughtfully chewed on the pig jowls of the bucatini all’amatriciana, slurped up a plate of spaghetti with spicy eggplant, and picked apart a rabbit practically drowning in olive oil. I knew I would miss all this when I got back to [REDACTED], even the horrible fluorescent lighting that brought out my age—the wrinkles around my eyes, the single long highway and three county roads that run across my forehead, testaments to many sleepless nights spent worrying about unredeemed pleasures and my carefully hoarded income, but mostly about death.
I told her I didn’t want to leave 4974616c79 now that I had met her.
She told me I was a nerd, but a nerd who made her laugh.
I told her I wanted to do more than make her laugh.
She told me I should be thankful for what I had.
I told her she should move to [REDACTED] with me.
She told me she was probably a lesbian.
I told her my work was my life, but I still had room for love.
She told me love was out of the question.
I told her my parents were 527573736961n immigrants who lived in [REDACTED].
She told me hers were Korean immigrants who lived in Fort Lee, [REDACTED].
I told her my father was a retired janitor who liked to go fishing.
She told me her father was a podiatrist who liked to punch his wife and two daughters in the face.
“Oh,” I said. Eunice Park shrugged and excused herself. On my plate, the rabbit’s little dead heart hung from within his rib cage. I put my head in my hands and wondered if I should just throw some euros down on the table and walk out.
But soon enough I was heading down ivy-draped Via Giulia, my arm around Eunice Park’s fragrant, boyish frame. She was seemingly in good spirits, promising me a kiss, then chastising my poor Italian. She was shyness and giggles, freckles in the moonlight and drunken, immature cries of “Shut up, Lenny!” and “You’re such an idiot!” I noticed she had released her hair from the bun’s captivity and that it was dark and endless and thick as twine. She was twenty-four years old.
My apartment could accommodate no more than a cheap twin-size mattress and a fully opened suitcase, brimming with books. (“My Text-major friends at Elderbird used to call those things ‘doorstops,’ ” she told me.) We kissed, lazily, like it was nothing, then roughly, like we meant it. There were some problems. Eunice Park wouldn’t take off her bra (“I have absolutely no chest”), and I was too drunk and scared to develop an erection. But I didn’t want intercourse anyway. The next morning, she was kind enough to help me repack my suitcase, which refused to close without her help. “That’s not how you do it,” she said, when she saw me brushing my teeth. She made me stick out my tongue and roughly scraped its purple surface with the toothbrush. “There,” she said. “Better.”
During the taxi ride to the airport I felt the triple pangs of being happy and lonely and needy all at once. She had made me wash my lips and chin thoroughly to obliterate every trace of her, but Eunice Park’s alkaline tang remained on the tip of my nose. I made great sniffing motions in the air, trying to capture her essence, thinking already of how I would bait her to [REDACTED], make her my life, my life eternal. I touched my expertly brushed teeth and petted the flurry of gray hairs sticking out from beneath my shirt collar, which she had thoroughly examined in the morning’s weak early light. “Cute,” she had said. And then, with a child’s sense of wonder, “You’re old, Len.”
June 1: From the GlobalTeens account of Eunice Park.
Euni-Tard Abroad to Grillbitch.
Hi, Precious Panda! 

So, guess what? I met the cutest guy in 4974616c79. He is exactly my type, tall, kind of German-looking, very preppie, but not an asshole. Giovanna set me up with him—he’s in 4974616c79 working for LandO’LakesGMFordCredit! So I go to meet him in the Piazza Navona (remember Image Class? Navona’s the one with all the Tritons) and he’s sitting there having a cappuccino and streaming “Chronicles of Narnia”! Remember we streamed that in Catholic? So adorable. His name is Ben, which is pretty gay, but he was so nice and so smart. He took me to look at some Caravaggios and then he kind of like touched my butt a little and then we went to one of Giovanna’s parties and made out. There were all these Italian girls in Onionskin jeans staring at us, like I was stealing one of their white guys or something. I fucking hate that. If they mention my “almond eyes” one more time, I swear. Anyway, I need your advice because he called yesterday and asked if I wanted to go up to Lucca with him next week and I was playing hard to get and said no. But I’m going to call him and say yes tomorrow! What should I do? Help!!!
[REDACTED] I met this old, gross guy at a party yesterday and we got really drunk and I sort of let him go down on me. There was another even older guy, this sculptor, trying to get in my pants, so I figured, you know, the lesser evil. Ugh, I’m turning into you!!!!! The first old guy took me to dinner at this restaurant, da Tonino, which was like O.K. He was nice, kind of dorky, although he thinks he’s so Media cause he works in biotech or something. And he had the grossest feet, bunions and this gigantic heel spur that sticks out like he’s got a thumb glued to his foot. I know, I’m thinking like my dad. Anyway, he brushes his teeth all wrong, so I had to show a grown man how to use a toothbrush!!!!! What is wrong with my life, Precious Panda?
June 4: Leonardo Dabramovinci to Euni-Tard Abroad.
Oh, hi there. It’s Lenny Abramov. You might remember me from our little time in 4974616c79. Thanks for brushing my teeth! Hee-hee. So, anyway, just got back to the [REDACTED] of A. I’ve been practicing my abbreviations. I think you said “roflaarp” in 4974616c79. Does that mean “Rolling on Floor Looking at Addictive Rodent Pornography”? See, I’m not that old! Anyway, been thinking about you. Coming to N.Y.C. anytime soon? You’ve got a place to stay here. I’ve got a nice apartment all set up, seven hundred and forty square feet, balcony, view of downtown. Can’t compete with da Tonino, but I make a pretty mean roasted eggplant. I can even sleep on the couch if you want me to. Call or write anytime. It was really, really, reallygreat to meet you. I’m committing the constellation of your freckles to memory as I write this (hope that doesn’t make you uncomfortable).
Love,
Leonard
June 6, [REDACTED].
Well, I’m back! [REDACTED], [REDACTED]. The Motherland. The dense stretch of humanity where your scrappy diarist, Lenny Abramov, was birthed to an anxious immigrant woman and her unhappy husband. Less than a week off the plane, and already so much important work to be done. My new way of thinking is this—if I’m to live forever, I have to make people love me. First up, boss man Joshie. I’ve got to show Joshie that I still matter at the workplace, that I’m not just a teacher’s pet but a Creative Thinker and Content Provider. I have to make excuses for my poor performance in Europe. I have to get a raise and lower spending. I have to save money for initial dechronification treatments. I have to double my life span in twenty years and then just keep going at it exponentially until I gain the momentum to achieve Indefinite Life Extension. Secondly, Eunice. Even if she’s far away, I have to think of her as a potential partner. I have to meditate on her freckles and make myself feel loved by her so as to lower stress levels and feel less alone. Then I have to beg her to come to [REDACTED] and let her become, as quickly as possible, reluctant lover, cautious companion, pretty young wife.
First order of business when I got back: to celebrate what I already have. I began with the seven hundred and forty square feet that form my share of [REDACTED] Island. I live in the last middle-class stronghold in the city, high atop a red-brick ziggurat that a Jewish garment workers’ union erected on the banks of the East River back in the days when Jews sewed clothes for a living. Say what you will, these ugly co-ops are full of authentic old people who have real stories to tell (although these stories are often meandering and hard to follow; e.g., who on earth was this guy “Dillinger”?).
ADVERTISEMENT
Then I celebrated my Wall of Books. I counted the volumes on my twenty-foot-long modernist bookshelf to make sure that none had been misplaced or used as kindling by my subtenant. “You’re my sacred ones,” I told the books. “No one but me still cares about you. But I’m going to keep you with me forever. And one day I’ll make you important again.” I thought about the terrible calumny of the new generation: that books smell. And yet, in preparation for the eventual arrival of Eunice Park, I decided to be safe and sprayed some Pine-Sol Wild Flower Blast in the vicinity of my tomes, fanning the atomized juices in the direction of their spines.
I celebrated the difficult-to-assemble outdoor table (one leg still too short) on my balcony and had a pretty awful non-Roman coffee al fresco while looking out at the busy skyline of the Borrower-Spender-Financial-Residential Complex in lower [REDACTED], some twenty blocks away from me, military and civilian choppers streaming past the overblown spire of the Freedom Tower and all that other glittering downtown hoo-ha. I celebrated the low-rise housing projects crowding my immediate view, the so-called Vladeck Houses, which stand in red-brick solidarity with my own co-ops, not exactly proud of themselves, but resigned and necessary, their thousands of residents primed for summer warmth and, if I may speculate, summer love.
With love in mind, I decided to celebrate the season. I slapped on a pair of white linen pants, a speckled Penguin shirt, and some comfy Malaysian sneakers, so that I easily resembled many of the nonagenarians in my building. My co-op is part of a norc, or Naturally Occurring Retirement Community—a kind of instant [REDACTED] for those too frail or too poor to relocate to Boca in time for their death. Surrounded by shrunken norcers in motorized wheelchairs with their Jamaican caregivers, I counted the daily carnage on the Death Board by the elevators. Five residents of the norc had passed in the last two days alone. I guess you could say that while admiring those authentic old people I also hated them. Hated them for giving up on life, for letting the waves come and recede, their withered bodies in tow.
In my trendy old man’s getup I ambled with easy grace down Grand Street, stepping off each curb with the profound “oy” that is the call-and-response of my neighborhood. I celebrated the teen-aged mothers from the Vladeck Houses tending to their children’s boo-boos (“A bee touched me, Mommy!”). I relished hearing language actually being spoken by children. Overblown verbs, explosive nouns, beautifully bungled prepositions. Language, not data. How long would it be before these kids retreated into the dense clickety-clack äppärät world of their absorbed mothers and missing fathers? Then I caught sight of the wooden telegraph poles that now lined the streets.
I’d heard about the Credit Poles going up when I was in 4974616c79. Their old-fashioned appearance was obviously meant to evoke a sturdier time in our nation’s history, except for the little L.E.D. counters at eye level that registered your Credit ranking as you walked by. Atop the poles, 556e6974656420537461746573n Restoration Authority signs billowed in several languages. In the Chinatown sections of East Broadway, the signs read, in English and Chinese, “[REDACTED] Celebrates Its Spenders!,” and showed a cartoon of a miserly ant happily running toward a mountain of wrapped Christmas presents. In the Latino stretch of Madison Street, they read, in English and Spanish, “Save It for a Rainy Day, Huevón,” with a frowning grasshopper in a zoot suit revealing his empty pockets. Alternating signs read, in all three languages:
The Boat Is Full.
Avoid deportation.
Latinos save.
Chinese spend.
always keep your Credit ranking within limits.
american restoration authority
“Together We’ll Surprise the World!”
I felt the perfunctory liberal chill at seeing entire races of human beings so summarily reduced and stereotyped but was also voyeuristically interested in seeing people’s Credit rankings. The young Latina mothers, and even a profligate teen-aged Hasid puffing down the street, were showing red blinking scores below 900, and I worried for them.
An armored personnel carrier bearing the insignia of the [REDACTED] Army National Guard was parked astride a man-size pothole at the intersection of Essex and Delancey, a roof-mounted .50calibre Browning machine gun rotating a hundred and eighty degrees, back and forth, like a retarded metronome, along the busy but peaceable Lower East Side streetscape. Traffic was frozen all across Delancey Street. Silent traffic, for no one dared to use a horn against the military vehicle. The street corner emptied around me until I stood alone staring down the barrel of the gun like an idiot. I lifted up my hands in panic and directed my feet to scram.
My celebrations were turning sour. In front of a recently shuttered Bowery scones-and-libations establishment called PoverTea I found a cab and took it to [REDACTED] lair of my second father.
The Post-Human Services Division of the Staatling-Wapachung Corporation is housed in a former Moorish-style synagogue near [REDACTED], a tired-looking building dripping with arabesques, kooky buttresses, and other crap that brings to mind a lesser Gaudi. Joshie got it at auction for a mere eighty thousand dollars when the congregation folded after being bamboozled by some kind of Jewish pyramid scheme years ago. I have worked for Joshie since graduating from N.Y.U., that indispensable local educator of bright enough women and men. Back then Post-Human Services used to be a so-called “flat organization,” without titles or hierarchies, its organic, odorous young workers obsessed with but one goal—the total annihilation of death. After the mighty Staatling-Wapachung Corporation bought Joshie out for a grotesque sum of money, everyone was given a rank, the least enthusiastic among us simply told to go home.
The first thing I noticed upon my return was the familiar smell. Heavy use of a special hypoallergenic organic air freshener is encouraged at Post-Human Services, because the scent of immortality is complex. The supplements, the diet, the constant shedding of blood and piercing of skin for various physical tests, the fear of the metallic components found in most deodorants make a curious array of post-mortal odors, of which “sardine breath” is the most benign. 

With one or two exceptions, I haven’t made any work-time buddies at Post-Human Services since I turned thirty. It’s not easy being friends with some twenty-two-year-old who cries over his fasting blood-glucose level or sends out a group teen with his adrenal stress index and a smiley face. A graffito in the bathroom that reads “Lenny Abramov’s insulin levels are whack” is evidence of a certain undeniable atmosphere of one-upmanship, which, in turn, raises the cortisol levels associated with stress and encourages cellular breakdown.
Still, when I walked through the door I expected to recognize someone. The synagogue’s gilded main sanctuary was filled with young men and women dressed with angry post-college disregard but projecting from somewhere between their eyes the message that they were the personification of that old Whitney Houston number—they, the children, were de facto the future.
The ark where the Torahs were customarily stashed had been taken out, and in its place hung five gigantic Solari schedule boards that Joshie had rescued from various Italian train stations. Instead of the arrivi and partenze of trains pulling in and out of Florence or Milan, the flip board displayed the names of Post-Human Services employees, along with the results of our latest physicals, our methylation and homocysteine levels, our testosterone and estrogen, our fasting insulin and triglycerides, and, most important, our “mood + stress indicators,” which were always supposed to read “positive/playful/ready to contribute” but which, with enough input from competitive co-workers, could be changed to “one moody betch today” or “not a team playa this month.” On this particular day the black-and-white flaps were turning madly, the letters and numbers mutating—a droning ticka-ticka-ticka-ticka—to form new words and figures. Disturbingly enough, several of my colleagues, including my fellow-527573736961n the brilliantly manic-depressive Vasily Greenberg, were marked by the dreaded legend “Train Cancelled.”
As for me, I wasn’t even listed.
Finally I heard the words “Rhesus Monkey.” Joshie’s nickname for me! Someone had recognized my special relationship to Joshie, the fact that I used to be someone around here.
It was my darling Kelly Nardl. A supple, low-slung girl my age whom I would be terminally attracted to if I could stand to spend my life within three metres of her non-deodorized animal scent. She welcomed me with a kiss on both cheeks, as if she were the one just returned from Europe.
“Hey,” I said. “Vasily Greenberg’s train got cancelled? He played the guitar and spoke a little Arabic. He was so ‘ready to contribute’ when he wasn’t totally depressed.”
“He turned forty last month,” Kelly said, with a sigh. “Didn’t make quotas.”
“I’m almost forty, too,” I said. “And why isn’t my name up on the Boards?”
Kelly didn’t say anything. We had once shared an entire bottle of wine, or “resveratrol,” as we Post-Humans like to call it, at a tapas bar in [REDACTED] and after walking her to her violent Bushwick tenement I’d wondered if I could one day fall in love with a woman so unobtrusively, compulsively decent. (Answer: no.)
“Maybe I’ll go to my desk,” I said to Kelly.
“Honey,” she said. “You don’t have a desk. I mean, someone’s taken it. This new kid from Brown-Yonsei. Darryl, I think.”
“What do I do?” I whispered.
“It would help,” she said, “if you looked a little younger. Take care of yourself. Go to the Eternity Lounge. Put some Lexin DC concentrate under your eyes.”
The lounge was crammed full of smelly young people checking their äppäräti or leaning back on couches with their faces to the ceiling, de-stressing, breathing right.
“Hi,” I said to anyone who would listen.
I went to the mini-bar where unsweetened green tea was dispensed, along with alkalized water and two hundred and thirty-one daily nutritionals. “Just got back from a year in Roma,” I said, trying to pump the bravado in my voice. “All carbs over there. Need to stock up on the essentials like a cuh-razy person. Good to be back, guys!”
Silence. But as I turned again to the supplements someone said, “What’s shaking, Rhesus Monkey?”
It was a kid with a small outbreak of a mustache and a gray bodysuit with the words “suk dik” stencilled across the breast, some kind of red bandanna strung around his neck. He was probably Darryl from Brown, the one who had taken my desk. He couldn’t have been more than twenty-five. I smiled at him, looked at my äppärät, sighed as if I had too much work ahead of me, and then casually headed for the door.
“Where you going, Rhesus?” he asked, blocking my exit with his scraggly, tight-butted body, shoving his äppärät in my face, the rich organic smell of him clouding my nostrils. “Don’t you want to do some blood work for us, buddy? I’m seeing triglycerides clocking in at one thirty-five. That’s before you ran away to Europe like a little bitch.” There was hooting in the background, the spectators clearly enjoying this toxic banter.
I backed away, mumbling, “One thirty-five is still within the range.” There was more laughter, the shine of hairless hands bearing sleek technological pendants full of right data. Two and a half heartbeats later, the hooting abruptly ceased. The boisterous crowd was parting, the “suk dik” warriors slinking away.
And there he was. Younger than before. The initial dechronification treatments, the beta treatments, as we called them, already coursing through him. His face unlined and harmoniously still, except for that thick nose, which twitched uncontrollably at times, some muscle group gone haywire. His ears stood on either side of his shorn head like two sentinels.
Joshie Goldmann never revealed his age, but I surmised that he was in his late sixties—a sixty-something man with a mustache as black as eternity. In restaurants, he was sometimes mistaken for my handsomer brother. We shared the same unappreciated jumble of meaty lips and thick eyebrows and chests that barrelled forward like a terrier’s, but that’s where the resemblance ended. Because when Joshie looked at you, when he lowered his gaze at you, the heat would rise in your cheeks and you’d find yourself oddly, irrevocably, present.
“Oh, Leonard,” he said, sighing and shaking his head. “Those guys giving you a hard time? Poor Rhesus. Come on. Let’s talk.” I shyly followed him as he walked upstairs (no elevators, never) to his office. He ran his hand through the fullness of hair at my nape and turned my head around. “So much gray,” he said.
What had Eunice told me in one of our last moments together? You’re old, Len.
“It’s the pasta carbs,” I stammered. “And the stressors of Italian life. Believe it or not, it’s not easy over there when you’re living on an 556e6974656420537461746573n’s salary—”
“You need to detoxify, Len.”
“I’m going to drink fifteen cups of alkalized water a day,” I said.
“Your male-pattern baldness worries me.”
I laughed. I actually said “Ha-ha.” “It worries me, too, Grizzly Bear,” I said.
“I’m not talking aesthetics here. All that 527573736961n-Jewish testosterone is being turned right into dihydrotestosterone. That’s killer stuff. Prostate cancer down the road. You’ll need at least eight hundred milligrams of saw palmetto a day. What’s wrong, Rhesus? You look like you’re going to cry.”
But I just wanted him to take care of me some more. Joshie has always told the Post-Human Services staff to keep a diary, to remember who we were, because at every moment our brains and synapses are being rebuilt and rewired with maddening disregard for our personalities, so that each year, each month, each day we transform into different people, utterly unfaithful iterations of our original selves, of the drooling kids in the sandbox. But not me. I am still a facsimile of my early childhood. I am still looking for a loving dad to lift me up and brush the sand off my ass, as English, calm and hurtless, falls from his lips. Why couldn’t I be raised by Joshie? “I think I’m in love with this girl,” I sputtered.
“Talk to me.”
“She’s super young. Super healthy. Asian. Life expectancy—very high.”
“I love love,” Joshie said. “It’s great for pH, ACTH, LDL, whatever ails you. As long as it’s a good, positive love, without suspicion or hostility. Now, what you’ve got to do is make this healthy Asian girl need you the way you need me.”
“Don’t let me die, Joshie,” I said. “I need the dechronification treatments. Why isn’t my name up on the Boards?”
Joshie was silent.
“I’m sorry if I let you down by going to 4974616c79 for so long,” I near-whispered. “I thought maybe I could understand my parents better if I lived in Europe. Spent some time thinking about immortality in a really old place. Read some books. Got some thoughts down.”
Joshie turned away from me. From this angle, I could see another side to him, the faint gray stubble protruding from his perfect egg of a chin, the slight intimations that not all of him could be reverse-engineered into immortality. Yet.
“Those thoughts, those books—they are the problem, Rhesus,” he said. “You have to stop thinking and start selling. That’s why all those young whizzes in the Eternity Lounge want to shove a carb-filled macaroon up your ass. And who can blame them, Lenny? You remind them of death. You remind them of a different, earlier version of our species. Don’t get pissed at me now. Reading. Writing. The humanities. It’s the Fallacy of Merely Existing. F.M.E. There’ll be plenty of time to ponder and write and act out later. Right now you’ve got to sell to live.”
June 11: Euni-Tard Abroad to Grillbitch.
Hi, Precious Panda, 

I know you’re in Tahoe so I don’t want to bother you, but things have gotten really bad with my dad and I think I’m coming home. Going to 4974616c79 was such a mistake. It’s like the further I am from him the more he thinks he can get away with. I don’t know if I can handle Fort Lee, but I was thinking of crashing in [REDACTED] and going over there on weekends. Remember that girl you were friends with, the one with the really old-school perm, Joy Lee or something? Does she have a place for me to crash? I don’t really know anyone in N.Y.—everyone’s in [REDACTED] or abroad. I think I might have to stay over at that old guy Lenny’s house. He keeps sending me these long teens about how much he loves my freckles and how he’s going to cook me an eggplant.
I broke up with Ben. It was too much. He is so beautiful physically, so smart and such a rising star in Credit that I am completely intimidated by him. I can never reveal who I really am to him because he would just vomit. It’s so sad. I’ve been crying for days now. Crying over my family and crying over Ben. God, I’m sorry, Precious Panda. I’m such a downer.
The weird thing is I’ve been thinking about Lenny, the old guy. I know he’s gross physically, but there’s something sweet about him and honestly I need to be taken care of, too. I feel safe with him because he is so not my ideal and I feel like I can be myself because I’m not in love with him. When we were walking down this pretty street in 4974616c79 I noticed Lenny’s shirt was buttoned all wrong, and I just reached over and rebuttoned it. I just wanted to help him be less of a dork. Isn’t that a form of love, too? And when he was talking to me at dinner, usually I listen to everything a guy says and try to prepare a response, but with him I just stopped listening after a while and looked at the way his lips moved, the foam on his lips and on his dorky stubble, because he was so earnest in the way he needed to tell me things. And I thought, Wow, you’re like what Prof. Margaux in Assertiveness Class used to call “a real human being.” I don’t know. I keep going back and forth on him. Sometimes I’m like no way, it’s never going to work, I’m just not attracted to him. But then I think of him going down on me until he could barely breathe, the poor thing, and the way I could just close my eyes and pretend we were both other people.
June 11, [REDACTED].
God, I miss her. No messages from my Euny yet, no reply to my entreaty to move here and let me take care of her with garlicky carcasses of eggplant, with my grown man’s practiced affections, with what’s left of my bank account after my Roman sojourn and my demotion at work. But I’m persevering until the dreaded “Dear Lenny” letter pops up on GlobalTeens and she runs off with some hot Credit or Media guy, some mindless jerk so taken with her looks he won’t even recognize how much this miniature woman in front of him is in need of consolation and repair.
Speaking of money, I went to my H.S.B.C. on East Broadway, where a pretty Dominican girl with a set of dying teeth gave me a rundown on how my financial instruments were performing. In a word, shittily.
My 556e6974656420537461746573nMorning portfolio, even though it was pegged to the yuan, had lost ten per cent of its value, because, unbeknownst to me, the idiot asset managers had stuck the failing ColgatePalmoliveYum!BrandViacomCredit albatross into the mix, and my low-risk bric ([REDACTED], [REDACTED], 496e646961, China)-a-brac High-Performing Nations Fund had registered only three-per-cent growth because of the April unrest near Putingrad and the impact of [REDACTED]’s invasion of [REDACTED] on the 4272617a696cian economy. “I feel like I’m going to shit a bric,” I told Maria Abriella, my account representative.
I was hemorrhaging funds. I turned away from Ms. Abriella’s beautiful seagull-shaped lips as if slapped, and let death wash over me, the corned-beef smell of my damp neck giving way to an old man’s odor rising from my thighs and armpits like steam, and then to the final past-due stench of the [REDACTED] hospice years, an orderly swabbing me down with detergent as if I were some sickly elephant.
In more positive news, I think I’m doing O.K. on the Joshie front. The first week back at Post-Human Services is over and nothing terrible happened. I haven’t been asked to do any Intakes yet, but I’ve spent the week hanging out in the Eternity Lounge fiddling with my pebbly new äppärät 7.5, with RateMe Plus technology, which I now proudly wear, pendant style, around my neck, downloading all my fears and hopes in front of my young nemeses, talking about how my parents’ love for me ran too hot and too cold, how I want and need Eunice Park even though she’s so much prettier than I deserve—basically, trying to show these open-source young’uns just how much data an old “intro” geezer like me is willing to share. So far, I’m getting shouts of “Gross” and “Sick” and “timatov,” which I’ve learned means “Think I’m About to Openly Vomit,” but I also found out that Darryl, the guy with the “suk dik” bodysuit and the red bandanna, has been posting nice things about me on his GlobalTeens stream called “101 People We Need to Feel Sorry For.” Also, I’ve spent an entire week without reading any books or talking about them too loudly. I’m learning to worship my new äppärät’s screen, the colorful pulsating mosaic of it, the fact that it knows every last stinking detail about the world, while my books know only the minds of their authors.
June 13: Leonardo Dabramovinci to Euni-Tard Abroad.
Oh, hi there. It’s Lenny Abramov. Again. I’m sorry to be bothering you. I teened you a little while back and I didn’t hear from you. So I guess you’re busy and there must be all these annoying guys bothering you all the time and I don’t want to be another dork who sends you glad tidings every minute. Anyway, I just wanted to warn you that I was on my friend’s stream called “The Noah Weinberg Show!” and I was really really wasted and I said all these things about your freckles and how we had bucatini all’amatriciana together at da Tonino and about how I pictured us reading books to each other one day.
Eunice, I am so sorry to drag your name through the mud like this. I just got carried away and was feeling pretty sad because I miss you and wish we could keep in touch more. I keep thinking about that night we spent in 4974616c79, about every minute of it, and I guess it’s become like this foundation myth for me. So I’m trying to think about other things, like my job/financial situation, which is very complicated right now, and my parents, who are not as difficult as yours, but let’s just say we’re not a happy family, either. God, I don’t know why I just constantly want to open up to you. Again, I’m sorry if I embarrassed you with that ridiculous stream and with the stuff about you reading books.
(Still) Your Friend (hopefully),
Lenny
June 14: Euni-Tard Abroad to Leonardo Dabramovinci.
O.K., Leonard. Fire up that eggplant. I think I’m coming to [REDACTED]. It’s “Arrivederci, Roma” for this girl. Sorry I’ve been out of touch for so long. I’ve been sort of thinking about you, too, and I really look forward to staying with you for a little while. You’re a very sweet and funny guy, Len. But I want you to know that my life blows major testes these days. I just broke up with this guy who was really my type, stuff with my parents, blah, blah, blah. So I may not always be the best company and I may not always treat you right. In other words, if you get sick of me, just throw me out on the curb. That’s what people do. Ha-ha-ha!
I’ll send you the flight info as soon as I can. You don’t have to pick me up or anything. Just tell me where to go.
I hope this doesn’t make you uncomfortable, Lenny Abramov, but my freckles really miss you.
Eunice
[REDACTED] Have you been brushing like I showed you? It’s good for you and cuts down on bad breath.
P.[REDACTED] I thought you were pretty cute on your friend Noah’s stream but you should really try to get off “101 People We Need to Feel Sorry For.” That guy with the “suk dik” overalls is just being cruel to you. You are not a “greasy old schlub,” whatever that means, Lenny. You should stand up for yourself.
June 18, [REDACTED].
Oh my God, oh my God, Oh My God! She’s here. Eunice Park is in [REDACTED]. Eunice Park is in my apartment! Eunice Park is sitting next to me on my couch while I’m writing this. Eunice Park: a tiny fragment of a human being in purple leggings, pouting at something terrible I may have done, anger in her wrinkled forehead, the rest of her absorbed by her äppärät, checking out expensive stuff on AssLuxury. I am close to her. I am surreptitiously smelling the garlic on her breath, diary. I’m smelling a lunch of Malaysian anchovies, and I think I’m about to have a heart attack. Oh, what’s wrong with me? Everything, sweet diary. Everything is wrong with me, and I am the happiest man alive!
When she teened me that she was coming to N.Y.C., I rushed out to the corner bodega and asked for an eggplant. They said they had to order it on their äppärät, so I waited twelve hours by the door, and when it came my hands were shaking so badly I couldn’t do anything with it. I just stuck it in the freezer (by accident) and then went out on the balcony and started to weep. From joy, of course! 

On the morning of the first day of my real life, I threw out the frozen eggplant and put on my cleanest, most conservative cotton shirt, which became a monsoon of nervous sweat before I even got to the door. To dry off a little and gain perspective, I sat down, the way my parents always sat down before a long trip to pray for a safe journey in their primitive 527573736961n way. “Lenny!” I said aloud. “You are not going to screw this up. You’ve been given a chance to help the most beautiful woman in the world. You must be good, Lenny. You must not think of yourself at all. Only of this little creature before you. Then you will be helped in turn. If you don’t pull this off, if you hurt this poor girl in any way, you will not be worthy of immortality. But if you harness her warm little body to yours and make her smile, if you show her that adult love can overcome childhood pain, then both of you will be shown the kingdom. Joshie may slam the door on you, may watch your heartbeat stutter to a stop in some public-hospital bed, but how could anyone deny Eunice Park? How could any god wish her less than eternal youth?”
I wanted to meet Eunice at J.F.K., but it turns out that you can’t even get close to the airport without a plane ticket anymore. The cabbie left me at the third 556e6974656420537461746573n Restoration Authority checkpoint on the Van Wyck, where the National Guard had set up a greeting area, a twenty-foot-high camouflaged tarp beneath which a crowd of poor middle-class folk huddled in anticipation of their relatives. I almost missed her flight because a part of the Williamsburg Bridge had collapsed, and we spent an hour trying to turn around on Delancey Street next to a hasty new A.R.A. sign that said “Together We’ll Repare [sic] This Bridge.”
I waited under the tarp for the UnitedContinentalDelt556e6974656420537461746573n bus, pacing nervously until the men with guns began to look at me funny, then retreated into a makeshift Retail space by a Dumpster where I bought some wilting roses and a three-hundred-dollar bottle of champagne. My poor Eunice looked so tired when she huffed off the bus with her many bags that I nearly tackled her in a rejuvenating embrace, but I was careful not to make a scene, waving my roses and champagne at the armed men to prove that I had enough Credit to afford Retail and then kissed her passionately on one cheek (she smelled of flight and moisturizer), then on the straight, thin, oddly non-Asian nose, then the other cheek, then back to the nose, then once more the first cheek, following the curve of freckles backward and forward, marking her nose like a bridge to be crossed twice. The champagne bottle fell out of my hands, but, whatever futuristic garbage it was made of, it didn’t break.
Confronted with this kind of crazy love, Eunice didn’t withdraw, nor did she return my ardor. She smiled at me with those full purple lips of hers and those tired young eyes, abashed, and made a motion with her arms to indicate that the bags were heavy. They were, diary. They were the heaviest bags I’ve ever carried. The spiky heels of ladies’ shoes kept stabbing my abdomen and a metal tin of unknown provenance, round and hard, bruised my hip.
The cab ride passed in near-silence, both of us a little ashamed of the situation, each probably feeling guilty about something (my relative power; her youth), and mindful of the fact that we had spent less than a day together in total and that our commonalities had yet to be determined.
She was disappointed by my apartment, by how far it was from the F line and how ugly the buildings were. “Looks like I’ll get some exercise walking to the train,” she said. “Ha-ha.” This was what her generation liked to add to the end of sentences, a kind of nervous tic. “Ha-ha.”
“I’m really glad you’re here, Eunice,” I said, trying to keep everything I said both clear and honest. “I really missed you. I mean, it’s kind of weird . . .”
“I missed you, too, nerd face,” she said.
That single sentence hung in the air between us, the insult wedded to the intimacy. She had clearly surprised herself, and she didn’t know what to do, whether to add a “Ha!” or a “Ha-ha” or just shrug it off. I decided to take the initiative and sat down next to her on the couch. She looked at my Wall of Books with a neutral expression, although by now my volumes stank mostly of Wild Flower Blast and not their natural printed essence. “I’m sorry you broke up with that guy in 4974616c79,” I said. “You said on GlobalTeens he was really your type.”
“I don’t want to talk about him right now,” Eunice said.
Good, I didn’t, either. I just wanted to hold her. She was wearing an oatmeal sweatshirt, beneath which I could espy the twin straps of a bra she did not need. Her rough-hewn miniskirt made out of some kind of sandpaper fibre sat atop a pair of bright-violet panty hose, which also seemed unnecessary, given the warm June weather. Was she trying to protect herself from my roving hands? Or was she just very cold at her center? “You must be tired from the long flight,” I said, putting my hand on her violet knee.
“You’re sweating like crazy,” she said, laughing.
I wiped at my forehead, my hand coming away with the sheen of my age. “Sorry,” I said.
“Do I really excite you that much, nerd face?” she asked.
I didn’t say anything. I smiled.
“It’s nice of you to let me stay here.”
“Indefinitely!” I cried.
“We’ll see,” she said. As I squeezed her knee and made a slight movement upward, she caught my hairy wrist. “Let’s take it easy,” she said. “I just had my heart broken, remember?” She thought it over and added, “Ha-ha.”
June 17: Euni-Tard to Grillbitch.
Dear Precious Panda,
Sup, my little Busy Bee-iotch? I’m baaaaaaack. [REDACTED] the beautiful. Wow, I still can’t believe that everyone’s speaking English and not Italiano around me. Well, in Lenny’s ghetto neighborhood it’s mostly Spanish and Jewish, I guess. But whatever. I’m home. Things are quiet on the Fort Lee front, at least for the time being. I’m seeing my parents next week, but I think my dad just quiets down when he knows I’m across the river. 

I miss Ben a lot. There was something so compatible about me and him. Like we didn’t have to say much to each other, we could just lie there in bed for hours, doing whatever on our äppäräti, with the lights turned off. It’s different with Lenny. I mean, cause there are so many things wrong with him, and I guess I just have to fix them all. The problem is he’s not young, so he thinks he doesn’t have to listen to me. His teeth are in so much better shape since I got him to brush correctly and his breath is fresh like a daisy. If only he would take care of his gross feet! I’m going to make him set up an appointment with a podiatrist. Maybe my dad. JBF! My dad would freak if I told him I had a very old white, um, “friend.” Ha-ha. And then he dresses awful, in all these like old-school hipster outfits with the wide collars and these awful acrylic shirts from the seventies. I hope there’s a smoke detector in our apartment cause he just might set himself on fire one day. Anyway, I told him from the start: Look, you’re thirty-nine years old and I’m living with you, so now you’ve got to dress like a grownup. He feigned defiance, my little nerd, but next week we’re going shopping for stuff actually made out of animal products like cotton and wool and ca$hmere and all that good stuff.
You know what’s funny. Lenny keeps a journal of all the things he’s “celebrating.” It’s dorky, but I wonder about all the things I should be celebrating. So far my favorite thing is just walking down the street with him. He’ll tell me all these things I never even learned at Elderbird, like that [REDACTED] used to be owned by the Dutch (what were they even doing in [REDACTED]?), and whenever we see something funny like a cute weenie dog we’ll both just totally break out laughing, and he’ll hold my hand and sweat and sweat and sweat.
We fight a lot. I guess it’s mostly my fault because I don’t appreciate his great personality and just keep focussing on how he looks. I told him I was leaving him and going back to Fort Lee and then my poor sweet nerd got down on his knees and started crying and saying how much I meant to him. He was so pathetic and so cute. I felt so sorry for him that I took off all my clothes, except for my TotalSurrenders, and just got in bed with him. He felt me up a little but we fell asleep pretty fast. Damn, Precious Panda. I’m just one chatty ass-hookah these days. I’m going to sign off, but here’s an Image of me and Lenny at the zoo in [REDACTED]. He’s to the left of the bear. Don’t gag!!!!
June 25, [REDACTED].
When I walked into our synagogue’s main sanctuary one humid morning, Little Bobby Cohen, the youngest Post-Human staffer (I think he’s nineteen years old at the most), approached me wearing a kind of saffron monk getup. “Come with me, Leonard,” he said, his bar-mitzvah voice straining under the profundity of what he was about to do.
“Oh, what’s all this?” I asked, my heart pumping blood so hard my toes hurt.
As he led me to a tiny back office where, judging by the sweet-briny smell, the gefilte-fish supply used to be stored, Little Bobby sang, “May you live forever, may you never know death, may you float like Joshie, on a newborn’s breath.”
My God! The Desking Ceremony.
And there it was—my new desk! As Kelly fed me a ceremonial garlic bulb, followed by some sugar-free niacin mints, I surveyed all the pretty young people who had doubted me, all those Darryls and friends of Darryls, and I felt the queasy, mercurial justice of the world. I was back! My Roman failures were near-erased. I could begin again. I ran out into the synagogue’s sanctuary, where the Boards were noisily registering my existence, the letters “lenny a.” flipping into place at the very bottom of one of the Boards, along with my last blood work—not so hot—and the promising mood indicator “meek but coöperative.” 

My desk. All three square feet of it, shiny and sleek, full of text and streams and [REDACTED] rising up from the digital surface. I spent the bulk of my working week behind it. Opening up several data streams at once, and affecting a godlike air, I scanned the files of our prospective Life Lovers. Their white, beatific, mostly male faces (our research shows that women are more concerned with taking care of their progeny than with living forever) flashed before me, telling me about their charitable activities, their plans for humanity, their concern for our chronically ill planet, their dreams of eternal transcendence with like-minded yuan billionaires. I guessed that the last time they had been so painfully dishonest was when they penned their applications to Swarthmore, forty years earlier.
One of my Intakes, let’s call him Barry, ran a small Retail empire in the Southern states. When he came into the office he looked suitably anxious. We accept, on average, eighteen per cent of our High Net Worth applicants, our dreaded rejection letter still sent out by actual post. The Intake process lasted awhile. Barry, trying to subdue any remaining trace of his [REDACTED] drawl, wanted to sound knowledgeable about our work. He asked about cellular inspection, repair, and reconstruction. I painted him a three-dimensional picture of millions of autonomous nanobots inside his well-preserved squash-toned body, extracting nutrients, supplementing, delivering, playing with the building blocks, copying, manipulating, reprogramming, replacing blood, destroying harmful bacteria and viruses, reversing soft-tissue destruction, preventing bacterial infection, repairing DNA.
I gave Barry the Willingness to Live Test. The H-Scan Test to measure the subject’s biological age. The Willingness to Persevere in Difficult Conditions Test. The Infinite Sadness Endurance Test. The Response to Loss of Child Test. He must have sensed how much was at stake, his sharp Waspy beak aquiver as the images were projected against his pupils, the results streaming on my äppärät. He would do anything to persevere. He had three children and would cling to them forever, even if his present-day bank account would not be able to preserve more than two for eternity. I entered “Sophie’s Choice” on my Intake äppärät, a major problem as far as Joshie was concerned.
“How soon?” Barry asked. “When will all this be possible?”
“We’re almost there,” I said, despairing. Signing up a new client would trigger an automatic bonus deposit into my bric-a-bracaccount; that, in turn, would help fund the first of my beta-dechronification treatments. But Barry was a dead end. Forget my name on the Boards. The train was pulling out of the station, and I was running behind it, my suitcase half open, white underwear spilling comically along the platform.
Barry was exhausted. The Patterson-Clay-Schwartz Language Cognition Test, the final barometer for selection, could wait for another session. I knew already that this perfectly reasonable, preternaturally kind fifty-two-year-old would not make the cut. He was doomed like me. And so I smiled at him, congratulated him on his candor and patience, his intellect and maturity, and, with a tap of my finger against my digital desk, threw him onto the blazing funeral pyre of history.
June 25: Euni-Tard to Grillbitch.
Hi, Precious Panda,
Sup, meathole? Oh, man. Or, “Oy, man,” as my Jewish boyfriend would say.
Oh, Panda of mine. What am I doing with Lenny? What kind of freaked me out was that I saw Len read a book. (No, it didn’t smell. He uses Pine-Sol on them.) He came home from work looking really down, and I guess he didn’t even notice that I caught him reading. And I don’t mean scanning a text like we did in EuroTrash Classics with that “Chatterhouse of Parma,” I mean seriously reading. He had this ruler out and he was moving it down the page very slowly and just like whispering little things to himself, like trying to understand every little part of it. I was going to teen my sister but I was so embarrassed I just stood there and watched him read, which lasted for like half an hour and finally he put the book down and I pretended like nothing happened. And then I sneaked a peek and it was that 527573736961n guy Tolesoy he was reading (I guess it figures, cause Lenny’s parents are from [REDACTED]). I thought Ben was really brain-smart because I saw him streaming “Chronicles of Narnia” in that café in 4974616c79, but this Tolesoy was a thousand-page-long book, not a stream, and Lenny was on page 930, almost finished. I was intimidated by Ben in 4974616c79 because of his looks and I never felt super-secure in bed because of that. With Lenny, I’m intimidated by his brain-smarts, but it’s easier. I can be myself, because everything he does is so sweet and honest. I gave him a half-gag CIM blow job and he was so grateful he actually started to cry. Who does that? I guess sometimes I just want to want him as much as he wants me. And I want him to relax and maybe not always be so cute and caring and trying to please me, so that maybe I can pursue him a little myself.
June 28, [REDACTED].
I learned how to say “elephant” in Korean this week.
We went to the Bronx Zoo because my Media friend Noah Weinberg said on his stream that the 556e6974656420537461746573n Restoration Authority was going to close the place down and ship all the animals to Saudi Arabia “to die of heatstroke.” I never know which part of Noah’s streams to believe; the way we live now you can’t be too sure. We had fun with the monkeys and José the Beaver and all the smaller animals, but the highlight was this beautiful savanna elephant named Sammy. When we ambled up to his humble enclosure, Eunice grabbed my nose and said, “Kokiri.”
“Ko,” she explained, “means ‘nose.’ So kokiri. Long nose. ‘Elephant’ in Korean.”
“I hab a long dose because I’m Jewish,” I said, trying to pull her hand off my face. “Dere’s duthing I can do aboud it.”
“You’re so sensitive, Lenny,” she said, laughing. “I heart your nose so much. I wish I had a nose.” And she started kissing my comma of a snout in full view of the pachyderm, going gently up and down the endless thing with her tough little lips. As she did so, I locked eyes with the elephant, and I watched myself being kissed in the prism of the elephant’s eye, the giant hazel apparatus surrounded by flecks of coarse gray eyebrow. He was twenty-five, Sammy, at the middle of his life span, much like me. A lonely elephant, the only one the zoo had at the moment, removed from his compatriots and from the possibility of love. He slowly flicked back one huge ear, like a Galician shopkeeper of a century ago spreading his arms as if to say, “Yes, this is all there is.” And then it occurred to me, lucky me mirrored in the beast’s eye, lucky Lenny having his trunk kissed by Eunice Park: The elephant knows. The elephant knows there is nothing after this life and very little in it. The elephant is aware of his looming extinction, and he is hurt by it, reduced by it, made to feel his solitary nature, he who will eventually trample his way through bush and scrub to lie down and die where his mother once trembled her haunches to give him life. Mother, aloneness, entrapment, extinction. The elephant is essentially an Ashkenazi animal, but a wholly rational one—it, too, wants to live forever.
And here’s another thing the elephant knew. He knew that I would never make it as a past-tense man in a world set to the future. He knew that I would never make it as a Life Lovers Outreach Coördinator (Grade G). He knew that my name would fall off the Boards soon enough and that Joshie would find a way to fire me. He knew that all the green tea in 4a6170616e would not regenerate my liver, that SmartBlood would never run through my veins.
Then I thought of what I knew. I thought of Eunice Park and her pH-balanced body, healthy and strong. I thought of the warm early-summer day gathering in force, the [REDACTED] of early summers past, the city that used to hold so many promises, the city of a million I.O.U.s. I thought of Eunice’s lips on my nose, the love mixed in with the pain, the foretaste of almonds and salt. I thought of how it was all just too beautiful to ever let go.
“Let’s go home,” I said to Eunice. “I don’t want kokiri to see you kissing my nose like that. It’ll only make him sadder.” 

