WHAT YOU DO OUT HERE, WHEN YOU’RE ALONE
By Philipp Meyer
Max had a name for what had happened to his son: the Accident, he called it. He wondered if his wife had her own name for it, though it wouldn’t be the same, because she didn’t think of it as an accident.
For the first few days, they had cried almost constantly. They had made love constantly as well, more than they had in the entire year previous, which seemed surprising to Max but also correct, and he had begun to wonder, guiltily, if Lilli might come back to him.
At this moment, he was lying on the floor next to the couch. Ligne Roset, picked by his wife, just like the other furniture. He was on the floor because he did not feel like taking off his shoes, though of course Lilli would not have known. She had disappeared somewhere—it was Sunday and they were both off work; Sunday and their entire future was in question; Sunday and Lilli had left without leaving a note. The previous Christmas, Max’s brothers had sat him down and told him what they thought of her. An intervention, they’d said. He’d defended her, he was used to doing so, but meanwhile, at this moment, Lilli was nowhere to be found.
Before they moved to the Oaks, Lilli was the sort of person who didn’t appear to care what anyone thought of her, was always joking at her own expense—about growing up in a trailer, about how you’d better not turn your back or she’d steal your TV. In Huntsville they’d made quite the couple, he the owner of the Porsche shop on the Speed Channel, she the loud, funny, slightly outrageous wife.
After they moved to the Oaks, she’d changed her hair, got a Martha Stewart wardrobe, and stopped cursing overnight. Max, meanwhile, remained himself. With the result that they were not exactly snubbed, but they were not invited to parties, either. Max did not care about this.
He knew he had to get up. It had been three weeks since the Accident, and there was a lot to be done: bills, the mortgage; it had been raining steadily and the lawn was returning to nature. The sun was coming through the big windows. He felt slightly drowsy and his back hurt, but that was just from lying on the floor. He was a small man, and fit; his body had not changed much since his youth, his hair was thick and his arms stronger than they looked, and it seemed to him that, in the past few years, other people had finally begun to see him the way he had always seen himself. The women who came to the shop would leave him presents—bottles of wine, invitations to come hunting on their husbands’ ranches.
As for the shop, it was always busy. They serviced Porsches, mostly; they did frame-off restorations, setups for the track. Max was the best Porsche mechanic in [REDACTED], the entire [REDACTED], if he was honest—he could sense what was wrong with a car before the factory computer did. He’d worked for a series of dealerships before opening his own shop, ten years ago, at the age of thirty-one. At thirty-three, he was making appearances on TNN and the Speed Channel. At thirty-seven, he’d been talked into buying this house.
Which was too big, for one. He had never thought he would say that about a house, but it was true—it made you feel exposed. He had got it for half the asking price, as it was widely considered the least desirable home in the community (no pool, the lot an awkward wedge shape), and, while Lilli had planned on lots of entertaining with their new neighbors, hardly anyone ever visited except their old friends from Huntsville, who drove the hour to see them. So far as people in the Oaks were concerned, all Huntsville had going for it was the state prison and its death chamber.
He had been on the floor all morning—Brazilian cherry—and he knew that if he did not get up now he would end up spending the day like this. Which was fine. Something had changed since the Accident. Something was trying to communicate with him. He felt it in every molecule of air, in every sip of water, even in the sore muscles in his back: you are alive. The longing for his wife, the shock at the near loss of his son, had all been submerged under that simple, insistent fact; he might have been a man lost at sea who has woken to discover that a wind has blown him ashore, an Arctic wanderer stunned by the onset of spring.
But there was plenty to do. The lawn, for instance, which had not been mowed in three weeks; any minute now a neighbor would report them. It was not a small offense in the Oaks, and to say he hated it here . . . No, it was just that he had never wanted to buy this house. In the first place, it was too expensive; in the second, it was in a community of lawyers and oilmen. You could be sued for painting your mailbox the wrong color, for putting up the wrong fence, for installation of unapproved roofing materials. And for a three-week-old lawn—he didn’t know. There was probably a firing squad, all-volunteer.
They’d heard about the Oaks from Lilli’s boss at Goliad Associates, the hedge fund. Lilli ran their office. The Oaks was a new development, designed by an architect, and Max thought the houses bore a resemblance to storage buildings—flat metal roofs, cement walls. Of course, there were also floor-to-ceiling windows and various decks and balconies. Frank Lloyd Wright is what people said, and Max guessed there was some beauty in it, maybe in the way the houses contrasted with the tall pines the developer had left standing. Or maybe it was just a case of the emperor’s new clothes. Meanwhile, Lilli and all the other neighbors collected Dwell and Architectural Digest, and sometimes driving along the streets at night you saw things through those tall windows that you were not supposed to see: Buck Hooper touching himself in front of the pay-per-view; Jeanne Winston throwing a Bottega goblet at her much younger husband; Clyde McCay, who owned an island off [REDACTED], having a long visit with the commode.
But those things were all distractions. At some point, they would bring his son home, and there were big decisions to be made, though he would have to make them on his own; he could not depend on Lilli. He stood up quickly and did a lap of the first floor—living room, den, kitchen, garden room. It was very modern; it was all the same big room, really, big and white and open, no nooks or crannies, filled with the expensive furniture they’d bought to go with the house, artsy leather couches, chairs, side tables. Everything had an intentional look. He stopped by the windows overlooking the back yard and saw a neighbor sunbathing on her deck. He wanted to linger and watch, but after a minute he made himself go back into the living room.
He considered turning on the radio; his son always left music playing, even when he wasn’t home, its presence in the house like the buzzing of insects. There are parts of his mind that are dark—that was how the doctor had put it. It will take time before he recovers, he’d said. Meaning months, possibly years. Harley was in an induced coma, the bones of his skull still knitting, his brain just beginning to repair itself. In the scope of Harley’s life, the doctor had told them, this will seem like a very slight interruption, and Lilli, of course, had been furious. She had wanted to sue the doctor for saying that; she wanted things to go back to the way they had been. Pure impossibility. It was only Max, in his heightened state, who understood how right the doctor was.
Back in Huntsville, Harley had not exactly been popular but he’d had enough friends, he had been ensconced at the top of his class; at thirteen he was already planning to go to Rice when he graduated. Moving to [REDACTED], to the Oaks, had thrown him off kilter. Just as it had Max. Harley had ended up with the goths, teen-agers who wore their clothing stuck with safety pins and white makeup on their faces. Most likely, that was when he’d got into drugs. Max was just speculating. Until quite recently, until the Accident, Lilli had done a good job of hiding their son’s problems, taking him to a therapist that Max had known nothing about.
It didn’t matter. There was work to be done. He would mow the lawn—he was the only one on the block who did his own yard work. From his deck, he could see out over the other homes in the development, the pines swaying above them. He could see the Welches’ kids playing behind their fence at the near end of the yard, and at the far end he could hear Joy Halloran—the sunbather—laughing about something into her phone. She was thirty-eight and separated. She was one of the few people Max liked in the Oaks—she was comfortable with herself. She smiled a lot, but you got the feeling that she might be smiling even if you weren’t there. Lilli despised her. The former trophy wife—that was what Lilli called her.
Joy noticed Max crossing the yard and waved to him.
“Morning, sunshine,” she called down.
“Morning,” he called back.
She put her phone away and leaned over the steel railing to talk. From her position on the deck she was ten feet higher than he was, her black hair wet from the shower, wearing her bathrobe loosely over a swimsuit; he could see the tan lines around her collarbones, the freckles on her nose. He wondered if she had heard about Harley, but of course she would have—the news had gone all over the neighborhood.
“How are you guys holding up?” she said.
“Fine, I guess.”
“If you want a drink, I was thinking I’d make a batch of mojitos. Kill the day in proper style.”
He wondered if he ought to make up some excuse about Lilli, but then Joy said, “I ran into Lilli this morning. She was with Tom Stockton—they said they were going to the river.”
“I wondered where she’d gone,” he said.
“Judy was with them, of course.”
“Of course.”
She pulled her bathrobe around her. “You’re a good man, Maxwell. I’m sorry as hell about what happened.”
“He’ll be fine,” Max told her. “It’s just going to take a little while.”
“He’s a brave kid,” she said.
Max had gone into Joy’s house once, when Lilli wasn’t home. They’d had a few drinks, and he’d admitted to her that Lilli was only the second person he’d ever slept with. He’d expected something to happen, and he guessed Joy had, too, but he hadn’t been able to initiate it. She had seemed a little hurt, but then she had forgiven him, maybe even respected him for it.
“I’ve been thinking a lot,” he told her. “I’ve been getting this feeling I ought to move away and just start my life over.”
“Why not,” she said. This was how they talked.
“That’s the conclusion I’ve come to.”
“I think you should.”
He grinned and they looked at each other.
“Anyway,” she said, after a minute, “come over anytime. You don’t have to knock.”
“I will,” he said.
“I’ll keep reminding you.”
His throat got tight, and everything inside him began to feel warmer. “I better get mowing.”
Joy smiled and cracked an imaginary whip at him before walking off the deck into her bedroom.
All around Max, the grass was lush and nearly shin-high, the sound of the Welches’ kids drifting over the fence. He ought to be jumping the pickets to Joy’s house right now. Instead, he made himself cross the lawn to his woodshop, where he kept the mower and gardening tools. He had not been in there since the Accident, and the order of it all, the way there was a space for everything—saws, clippers, trimmers, all outlined in marker on pegboard—almost made him cry. He was embarrassed—Joy knew, everyone knew, how badly Lilli treated him. Knew how long he had put up with it. It seemed like a miracle, or maybe a curse, that since the age of twenty he had only slept with one person. There had never seemed to be any hurry. He was not enough of a risk taker. That was what his brothers had always told him.
He pushed the mower out to inspect his lawn. It was a sunny day with a few big white clouds, the skyline of [REDACTED] visible ten miles away. With the grass so tall, the mowing would not be easy, but it was a fine time to be out. He was about to start the machine when something caught his eye. There were bees everywhere and flowers, thousands of them. Some sort of purple-and-white wildflower. He knelt down to examine them and was again filled with emotion—this was just what he’d been thinking, there was life everywhere. The universe in a handful of dirt. These flowers had lived here forever, but he’d never known it. He’d been cutting them down since the day he moved in.
He was certain that Lilli had not noticed the flowers either, just the overgrown lawn. Things had been bad for a year, he figured. But that was not even true. Things had gone bad the minute they moved there. She had become embarrassed by him. If you do wear a T-shirt in public, she said, you definitely shouldn’t tuck it in. And you shouldn’t wear those jeans. Or your running shoes. He had allowed her to buy him new clothes, but it did not seem to matter how many times he gave in. There had never been real equality; he had never been the decision-maker. He looked at the lawn and all the color—their yard was a sea of flowers. Forget-me-nots? Spiderwort? The fact that he didn’t know, that he could not identify this tiny flower, felt like a crime against himself. Against everything that was good. He would never cut them down.
Of course, there were practicalities. Any day now, they’d be reported to the community association. Lilli would be furious, yet she should have been here to see these flowers, which had come from nowhere. He pushed the mower back into the woodshop, then unscrewed the sparkplug, and hid it in a jar of screws. Max Callahan: protector of flowers.
Meanwhile, his wife was out with Tom and Judy Stockton—his least favorite people in the development, a serious accomplishment given the competition. Tom Stockton had a pair of nineteen-sixties Corvettes that he told everyone he’d restored himself, but one look around his garage and you knew—there was not a single toolbox. That was the problem with most of the men who lived here—despite their pride at being Texans, they’d grown up in cities, worked in office buildings, and, truth be told, they had more in common with people from [REDACTED] than they did with their own parents.
Max remembered again where he was, standing in his yard. Joy Halloran was back on her deck, talking into her phone, the sun directly behind her. She had taken off her robe, and for a moment it looked like she was wearing nothing at all; she looked like something nature itself was offering him. He lost awareness of everything but her—if she would just make a gesture he would go to her, but she was distracted by her phone call, and she stepped back suddenly from the railing and disappeared from sight.
He knew that he was in a fragile state, but, at the loss of her, he had the brief feeling that he had left his body, a sense of such overwhelming despair that he wanted to obliterate himself from the earth. If he could only summon the energy, he would walk out of the yard, past the gates and into the traffic on the highway. Instead, he sat down in the flowers, which came nearly to his chest now. He was aware of his own heart, wearing itself down to extinction. The End—he had always known what it would look like. Things would simply get dark, a ring of blackness closing around you; he had seen it happen to his father. He eased himself down onto his back. From the ground, he could see only the pine trees bordering the yard, the very blue sky with the fat clouds of a nearly pure whiteness. He wondered if he was dying, if his heart was about to stop, but after some period of time he began to feel settled again, returned to his body. Of course he was not dying. It was the opposite: he was alive. Lying in a bed of flowers. And, Christ, the sky and those clouds: he ought to be up there among them, an actual pilot. He ought to have been a pilot in [REDACTED], flying a small plane just big enough for one, a vast wilderness beneath him.
His mind was moving quickly now. Their old neighbors in Huntsville were selling their house—five acres in the Piney Woods, close to Max’s brothers, a small house but well kept. If he and Lilli sold their place here, even in this market, they could buy the Huntsville one for cash; they’d have no payments except taxes. He could sell the shop—business was steady, but he’d been bored with it for years, bored with being in charge. He had not laid hands on a car in months, there was so much to do in the office. He could sell the shop and this house and have breathing room to figure out exactly how they would adjust to their new situation. When Harley was better—anywhere from six months to several years from now, according to the doctor—Max would turn the house over to him and begin his journey.
Lilli stayed out with the Stocktons all day, and Max turned in early. He was barely aware of her coming to bed. Later that night a noise woke him, and he thought, It’s just Harley coming in, and then he heard another noise and woke up all the way.
Lilli was lying on her side with her back to him, and he reached and touched her hip lightly. She was small and delicate; she looked like a pixie, like something from the movies. Even now, at forty-two, she seemed to glow in the dim light. She didn’t pull away from him, and he stayed there with his hand like that, looking at the curve from her shoulder to her small waist and up to her hip, aware of the feeling of her not pulling away. Put all your weight on me. That was what she used to say to him, but she hadn’t said it in more than a year, not even during those few days of intense lovemaking after the Accident. They had both been sore, but they had not been able to help themselves; it had felt like having a new partner.
“No,” she said now.
“I didn’t know you were awake.”
“Well, I am.”
“Did you hear that noise? I think a window might be open.”
It was quiet. Lilli said, “You know there isn’t even a word for what we are, leaving him in there like that.”
“You shouldn’t think that way.”
“We should have had more children,” she said.
“You should have told me he was doing cocaine.” 

He wondered if he’d gone too far, but then he didn’t care. He got out of bed and went into the bathroom. He heard Lilli begin to cry, softly at first, and then she was sobbing. He wanted to go back to her, but he stood with his hands on the sink, looking at himself in the mirror. In the soft moonlight that came through the window, he really didn’t look much different from the way he’d looked at twenty, and at forty-one he was not even old—he had plenty of time and life left. He had recently told Lilli this, and she had laughed at him. But he was certain he was right. They were not the same person. When he first met Lilli, his love for her had been so intense that he had wondered if he would survive it. He had dropped out of college for her, changed his path on earth. Whereas Lilli was the opposite. She would survive anything. He had always thought of this as an admirable quality, but now he was not sure.
Of course, he himself was not perfect. It had occurred to him that maybe this love he felt, this intensity of feeling, maybe that had not really been about Lilli after all. Maybe it was simply the way he preferred to feel. He had begun to feel the same thing for Joy Halloran that afternoon at her house, which was why he had not slept with her, because compared with that feeling the sex would have been nothing.
He could hear his wife crying in the other room. He could feel his feet trying to move on their own, but he forced himself to stay put. It was a large bathroom, all polished cement, two sinks, two showers—they shared nothing. Lilli’s guilts were not the same as his, either. At some point after they moved here, she had become more of a friend to Harley than a parent; Harley had been miserable at his new school, and Lilli had stopped setting boundaries. A sort of club had formed, a family within the family that did not include Max.
ADVERTISEMENT
And yet this question—the question of who was responsible—would not change anything. Max passed back through the bedroom, where Lilli was now silent. Naked, he went down the stairs and out onto the deck, to look out at the skyline of [REDACTED], all the buildings lit, even on a Sunday night. He touched his toes and felt the muscles of his back stretch, then reached forward and kicked up into a handstand, holding himself with his feet straight up in the air, naked on his own deck. Then the feeling left him. He eased back onto his feet. The light in Joy Halloran’s bedroom was on, but Max was thinking about his son. He was thinking, You are the one who did that to him.
Which was true but not the entire truth. The truth being that he, Max, needed to get away from this place. Needed to walk out, turn his back on all of it, leave [REDACTED] and never return. He had good hands; he could support himself indefinitely. Porsche, tractor, chain saw—he could fix it. Remake himself as his ancestors had done: they had left [REDACTED] with just the clothes on their backs. Meanwhile, he’d lived his entire life within sixty miles of his home town.
Yes, he would leave. It was that simple. It felt good to have a plan, even a vague one. It felt good to stand out there, a slight breeze in his hair, only the sound of the crickets. Lilli could have the house, his car, his business, everything; she could sell it all. He would start again from nothing. She would not have trouble finding a husband, and wherever Max’s legs gave out, that’s where he would settle. He would not make any of the same mistakes. He would not surround himself with people who wanted to be anything but what they were.
He wondered if Lilli would do that to him, if she were able. Part of him was sure of it. He wondered if that was why he had made the decision to leave Harley in jail that second night; he wondered if he had done that to punish his wife. But he did not think so. It was simply the sort of choice you made, a hard decision for which there would be consequences, the sort of decision that showed you your life was different from what you’d always thought it was.
Harley had been pulled over for speeding, and the police had found a vial of cocaine in the car. [REDACTED] was not a good place to get caught with drugs, even if you were white, even if you lived in the Oaks, but Harley was not the sort of kid to think about those things. He had just turned eighteen, he was just like his mother, and in that sense maybe it had been his destiny for this to happen.
Neither Max nor Lilli had come from anyplace important. Max had grown up sharing a room with two brothers, but he’d been taught to be proud. When he was sixteen, a tornado had touched down in Huntsville, torn the roof off his house, and knocked down plenty of others. Most of the neighbors had spent months living with blue tarps, but Max’s father had pulled all three boys out of school and in a week they’d had the roof reframed, sheathed, and shingled, all the fallen trees limbed and bucked, as if no storm had ever occurred. Max’s father was a machinist, a man who came from cedar choppers, from laborers; a man who had plenty of excuses to be hard on his children. Except that he was the opposite. When their church’s steeple was infested with pigeons, when even the minister had resigned himself to shooting them, Max and his father had climbed up there in the dark, while the pigeons were night-blind and reluctant to fly, and caught them by hand, a hundred pigeons. They’d stuffed them into burlap sacks, then released them thirty miles away.
Whereas Lilli came from a different sort of family, had grown up in a double-wide trailer, the kind that looks like the owner is a collector of things. She had left home, moved in with a boyfriend at age fourteen, but maybe you never escaped your family. She’d met Max at nineteen, finished her associate’s while Max supported her, and then she got pregnant just after their wedding. Max dropped out of A. & M. the same year. He hadn’t wanted to keep the baby—they were barely into their twenties and broke—but Lilli was suddenly desperate to be a mother; it was as if Max’s love was no longer enough.
The light went out in Joy Halloran’s bedroom, and Max went back inside, down the steps to Harley’s room. There were clothes all over the floor, posters, and he didn’t know what, cocaine probably, hidden somewhere. The only drug Max had ever tried was alcohol, and this saddened him now—he should have had those experiences. He looked around as if someone might be watching. It was strange being naked in your son’s bedroom. He picked up a T-shirt from the floor and smelled it: it smelled like his son, and also like his son’s sweat, and also like cigarette smoke. He draped the shirt around his neck. The Cure, it said. He picked up another shirt from the floor. This one smelled like his son and something else, something sweet. A girl’s perfume. He wondered who the girl was and realized he had no idea so he put that shirt down, the one that smelled like the girl, and sat on his son’s bed.
He didn’t remember falling asleep, but when he woke up he felt more rested than he’d been for weeks; he’d had the kind of sleep you get from good dreams. It was the best he’d slept since Harley had left the house that night.
At two in the morning, they’d got the call. Max would have expected Harley to sound different, humbled maybe, but he was the same.
“I’m in jail,” he told Max. “I’m going to be here at least till morning, when the judge comes through.”
“What happened?” Max said.
“I dunno. They’re saying I had drugs in the car.”
“Did you?”
There was a long silence, and then Max realized that Harley must be standing in a room surrounded by police officers and was probably more scared than he’d ever been in his life. “Don’t answer that question,” he said. “I’ll call a lawyer.”
There was another pause and Harley said, “Tell Mom to come and bail me out tomorrow.”
It was an order. Max felt all the sympathy go out of him.
“Dad, did you hear me?”
Max still didn’t answer—he was thinking about the time he’d been arrested in College Station for driving drunk. He was twenty, two years older than Harley, but he’d been too scared to even consider calling his father, not scared of punishment but scared of disappointing him. And so he had stayed in jail until his brothers collected the money to bail him out.
“Dad?”
“I heard you,” Max told his son.
“They said I can call again when the judge sets the bail.”
One extra day. It had not seemed like a long time, and Lilli, to Max’s surprise, had agreed. She was ashamed; it was as if she herself had been arrested. It was clear to both of them that a bit of scared straight would be healthy for their son, that an immediate rescue would do more harm than good.
When Harley called the next morning, Max told him it would take another day to get the bail money. Harley asked to speak with his mother. I’m sorry, honey, she told him. Well, Harley told her, I guess that’s the way it is. Max had felt simultaneously proud and awful. They retained a lawyer in the Skyline District, but Max spent all day worrying that they had made a mistake.
The guards found Harley the next morning. They claimed he’d fallen down the stairs. Of course it was a lie. Harley had mouthed off to the wrong person, guard or inmate, or maybe he had not done anything wrong at all. Maybe he had just been in a place he was not meant to be.
The day after Max slept in Harley’s bed, he stayed late at the shop to finish some paperwork, and when he got home there was no sign of Lilli. He walked around looking for her, room to room, but there was no note. Her car was still there, and there were any number of things she might be doing. Recently she’d been spending a lot of time with the Stocktons. People told stories about them, threesomes and foursomes. Max did not entirely believe those things, but the fact remained that whenever Lilli went over there she came back acting like she’d smoked pot. Tom Stockton was hairy and barrel-chested, and Max imagined him penetrating Lilli from behind, his enormous body pressed against her small frame. It made Max sick to think about. He went to the kitchen and fixed a rum-and-Coke, then found himself standing by Harley’s room again.
The door was open, and there was Lilli, asleep in Harley’s bed. She had not gone to the Stocktons’ after all. He stood for a long time and watched her breathe; she was in a deep sleep. It was a thing they had in common now, and he thought about getting in bed with her but decided against it.
The next morning he ran into her in the kitchen. He looked past her, out at the yard. The flowers were continuing to spread; you could see their color now from a distance, and he tried to recall what they had smelled like.
“I talked to the doctor yesterday,” Lilli said. “I forgot to tell you.”
“We didn’t see each other,” he replied, which was not entirely true.
“They’re going to wake up Harley tomorrow. They said we’ll be able to bring him home soon.”
“What time?” he said.
“What time what?”
“What time are they going to wake him up? What time should we get there?”
“I didn’t ask.”
“I guess we’ll have to call them back.”
“I’m sorry,” she said.
“Did they say anything else?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Are we going to need a nurse or someone like that to watch him?”
“I don’t know.”
“I’ll call them back.”
“Fine,” she said.
“This is good news,” he told her. “I don’t understand what’s wrong.”
“I guess I’m worried they should keep him there longer, maybe. I’m worried something could happen if he comes home too soon, like maybe it’s just the insurance company trying to push him out before he’s ready.”
“We have good insurance,” he said, but he could tell she wasn’t listening. She was looking at her reflection in the glass door.
“We got married so young, Max. Don’t you ever feel that way?”
Max felt such disdain then that he could barely stand to look at her. His wife might have been a strange woman he’d seen on a street corner. He had the feeling that if he never saw her again he would not mind. It was quiet for a while before he said, “I’ll take care of Harley.”
“What are you talking about?”
“He can live with me. I’m not staying here anymore.”
“Max,” she said.
“You can come with me, or you can do whatever you want, but I’ll take care of him.”
He was surprised he’d said it, and so was Lilli. He could tell it knocked her right off her tracks, and he could see her mind working to catch up.
“Do you want me to come?”
He could see himself with Joy Halloran, in her bedroom and elsewhere—she was the sort of person Lilli would never be, and he could see himself making a life with her, only it was a more distinct, more real version of himself. They would be living in the hills beyond Austin—Joy’s family had a ranch there, her father had a collection of airplanes; she had told him that afternoon. Max had always imagined himself in a place like that, dry air and forty-mile views. Harley would be off at college. Then things closed in again, and he could see Lilli alone, living with her family in Huntsville. Things would not be as easy as she thought. It would not be easy for him, but it would be even harder for her; she would not understand until it was too late. 

“Yes,” he told her. “I want you to come with me.”
That night after work, he picked up Chinese food from a place Lilli liked. He had spent the entire day with a feeling of lightness, although there had been nothing but problem customers, the type who could not really afford their expensive cars. The type for whom owning a car like this meant they had accomplished something with their lives, the type who spent their weekends rubbing fenders with carnauba wax, taking their kids for long drives, not telling their wives that they were one big repair bill away from having to sell. Anyone else would have told them all to go to hell, but Max felt sorry for them. Gave away parts and labor. And today that hadn’t bothered him.
The lights were out throughout the Oaks when he got home; some sort of power outage; the city was always having brownouts. He took a flashlight from the garage and carried the bag of food into the kitchen and saw Lilli sitting by herself in the enormous white dining room, eating by candlelight. She wasn’t wearing any makeup. He couldn’t remember the last time he’d seen her without makeup. She was a beautiful woman, better than Max had ever deserved. He’d known that since they first met—it was the end of summer, and he was about to return to A. & M., but he’d realized that he was making a mistake. So he had made his way back to her. It had been twenty-one years, but at this instant it seemed to him that this feeling had not faded; it had only grown richer, more complex.
But, when he looked at her again, something was wrong. She was eating cold leftovers. Eating without him.
“I brought the Chinese,” he said. He set the bag on the long table that seated twelve people. Nothing in this room was his—the furniture, the pictures on the wall. It might have been his money, but it all belonged to his wife. “I said I’d get dinner.”
“I don’t know, Max. The power went out and I guess I just got hungry and I wasn’t sure.”
“I said I would bring Chinese.”
“I know you did. I just wasn’t sure.”
He sat down across from her.
“I think I want to eat by myself.”
He carried the bag of food into the kitchen, but it wasn’t right—Harley’s room was just there, on the other side of the wall. He got up and went outside, through the big glass door.
It was pitch black, a cool, clear night, and even the [REDACTED] skyscrapers were dark. He went to the far end of the yard and sat in the grass. A familiar feeling—he had thought he was doing the right thing, only to learn he wasn’t.
He sat there in the darkness, listening to the crickets and night birds, a whip-poor-will; the lights of the city were out, and there was not a single human sound. It might have been the end of the world. The last instant. His father asking them to open the blinds and Max looking at his brothers; they all knew, and then his father was gone, just like that, his light winked out the same as any murderer’s. Pure biology. A habit of breathing. Harley would be no different, and at the thought of that Max lay on his back. He could sense the dew settling on his face, above him were all the stars, uncountable—the black universe would swallow them up, he himself, everyone he had ever known.
Only . . . he did not really believe that. He could not explain why; he knew it was true, but he did not agree with it. There was Lilli sleeping on the couch at his shop while he pulled all-nighters. There was Harley swimming at Lake Livingston. The last time they had gone, Max had got out because a storm was coming, a big norther, but Harley had paddled out to the middle so that he could float on his back and watch the storm blow in over top of him. To raise a son like that, who was not afraid—he was not sure how he’d done it. Men like that built empires, they crossed oceans, they became the stuff of history.
As for his own life, he was barely to the middle of it, and his son’s was just beginning. He realized that he had been looking up at the sky, the stars visible as in his youth, and his dark house seemed strange to him now, a place from some half-forgotten dream, a place he had gone to pass his days. The next morning, or the morning after, he would go and pick up his son. He could see them both clearly, two figures on a remote highway, at the saddle of some unnamed pass. They were carrying their burdens easily. They were already fading from sight.  

