THE PILOT
By Joshua Ferris

He hadn’t heard from Kate Lotvelt in two weeks. Not that he absolutely should’ve necessarily. He and Kate, they weren’t . . . were they friends? Well, yeah, they were friends. They were acquaintances. They’d met twice, once at the producer Sydney Gleekman’s yearly blowout, and then, a few months later, at the actor’s dinner party.
Kate’s invitation had come by e-mail. She was considerate, or she was canny, not to include the addresses of the other invitees. She’d sent the message to her husband and bcc’d everyone else.
“From: Kate Lotvelt. To: Eaton Aiken. Subject: Death is a Wrap! ‘Come for the drinks & stay for the pool.’ ”
He’d R.S.V.P.’d, but not immediately. Two days after the message came in. Two days plus maybe an hour. And said something like: Just can’t wait. Heading to tax-friendly [REDACTED] in a few days to shoot this godawful underarm commercial. Remember that particular station of the cross? Maybe not, probably scrubbed it from memory. But, hell, work’s work. That pilot I told you about is coming along, I think. Gleekman’s enthusiastic, or at least Pleble claims enthusiasm on his behalf. But the sad reality is always reality television. It’s why I so admire “Death.” It’s a sick little fuck-you every week to the swapped wives and tarantula eaters. Congratulations, by the way. Three seasons! God damn if that’s not impressive in this climate. But the show . . . well, do you ever tire of hearing how good it is? And I thought life was over after “The Wire.” Listen, no need to reply to this longwinded e-mail. You’re wrapping! But can’t wait to see you at the party. Consider this an R.S.V.P. No way I’d miss it. Not a chance in the world. Hooray! Cheers cheers, Lx.
He didn’t expect a reply. It was a mass e-mail—she couldn’t reply to everyone who’d replied. She was busy, she was wrapping the third season. He would have liked a reply. After a few days went by, he’d have liked a reply a lot. Was his e-mail too effusive? Was it a mistake to use the word “sick” to describe her show? Or maybe she was just busy shooting the season finale. She was just busy shooting the season finale. He should have just written back quick-like, something like “Thanks for the invitation, Kate. See you then.” Then she might have quick-like hit Reply, with a confirmation, and he’d have known that she knew he was coming. Did she even know she’d invited him? Sometimes, with e-mail, some programs, you hit All Contacts or something and invite people you don’t mean to invite. Of course she’d meant to invite him. He just didn’t have any confirmation that she’d received his R.S.V.P. That was kind of unnerving. But, think about it, would he then have to confirm her confirmation? That wasn’t really feasible. It was just . . . Everything was fine. She was just wrapping. He was too effusive. “Sick little fuck-you”: that might have been—no, it was fine—just a little insulting? No, no, it was fine, who knows, not him.
At the actor’s dinner party, the night they exchanged e-mail addresses, he and Kate had been seated together. Ten minutes passed before he managed to settle his heart. Then they talked about the Guild and its troubles. When he thought she had warmed to him, he peppered her with questions about her show—how she ran a room, what her writing habits were. He tossed hints of his awe but scrupulously avoided rhapsodizing. He had rhapsodized in the past to mere cameramen, and his impulse upon returning home had always been to beat the fan-boy in him into a permanent coma. After dessert, while the other guests were drinking an expensive port—he’d been dry sixteen months now—Eaton Aiken, to everyone’s delight, took off his shoes and, standing on some old newspaper, painted a mural on the far wall of the actor’s dining room with some house paint and a stiff brush.
He thought about how different his anticipation about the party would be if he were Eaton Aiken. If he were Eaton Aiken, it would be his party. He wouldn’t have to worry about anything but what he already had: a nineteen-twenties Mediterranean, with a porte cochere, at the top of Griffith Park; an infinity pool with Moroccan tile rippled with blue fins of light (he had seen photos in People, against his will, while waiting in line to buy gum); money for the booze and the hired hands to serve it; and a solo show at the Getty before the age of forty. Now that he remembered the Getty show, he could no longer think as Eaton Aiken; he could think only of Eaton Aiken himself. Successful, attractive, untroubled. Eaton Aiken hadn’t just finished shooting a deodorant commercial in tax-friendly [REDACTED].
Part of the problem was that two weeks had gone by and she hadn’t sent a reminder to everyone saying in case you forgot about the party, looking forward to seeing you, etc. The party was tonight. Was the party still on? He couldn’t be totally one-hundred-per-cent sure, and here it was the middle of the afternoon. He was in his darkened room—irrepressible [REDACTED] sunlight battering the closed blinds, unwashed bedsheets reeking of tobacco smoke—watching DVR’d TV backlogged since W.-S. and checking-rechecking his e-mail for a reminder e-mail. Of course it was still on. If you were Kate Lotvelt, would you worry about guests coming? She had succeeded beyond the pedestrian sorrows of social anxiety. It was an awesome thing to behold, his inbox without the reminder e-mail. It was also unsettling. Wasn’t it possible that now that she had wrapped she’d taken better care to select from her contacts the people she really wanted at the party and sent the reminder e-mail only to them?
Finally he got a message from Pleble: “Yo bro, how’d the shoot go? I’m in Indio. Do not fucking go to fucking Coachella. Time was there were a hundred great bands and ten people in the know. Now it’s a refugee camp for neohippie fuckheads. What exactly are you asking about a reminder e-mail from Kate Lotvelt? She needs to drop that Romanian douche and sign with me. Back on Monday if you need to talk. In the meantime, why not finish that pilot? Your humble Pleeb.”
No help at all. He’d hoped to hear that Pleble was going to the party so they could go together. Or, if they didn’t go together, at least he’d know that he’d know someone there. But maybe Pleble hadn’t been invited. But if he’d been invited Pleble would have been invited. Kate and Eaton knew Pleble better than they knew him. Didn’t they? Now he was thinking that there really must have been a contacts mishap. It would have been nice if Pleble had confirmed or denied that he’d been invited. But Pleble was shrewd. If he hadn’t been invited, he wouldn’t say, “Kate’s having a party? Why wasn’t I invited?” He’d say just what he’d said. So maybe Pleble was invited, but he was in Indio, which sucked, because it would have been nice to go with someone or at least know someone there. Or maybe Pleble hadn’t been invited, in which case there must have been a contacts mishap, and he shouldn’t have been invited, either. Either way, now things were more uncertain than before Pleble’s totally unhelpful and possibly calculating e-mail. Maybe he wasn’t even in Indio! He was tempted to write Gleekman and ask him if he’d been invited and if he was going or at least if he’d received a reminder e-mail. But he didn’t want to give Gleekman the impression that he was feeling insecure about his place at Kate’s party. That would be sending the wrong signal. The pilot was but a polish away.
Kate Lotvelt was the creator of and show runner for “Death in the Family,” as well as its head writer and a member of the ensemble cast. The show’s meandering, almost nonexistent plotlines revolved around the Michaelson family: Connor and Jean, adult son Mike and wife Sally, teen-age daughter Irene, adopted Korean child Koko, dog Revolution, and neighbors the Washingtons. In every episode, someone died. Connor murdered Jean, Jean set fire to Sally, Mike was wrongfully executed, Irene caught cold, Koko fell into the pool, Revolution was shot, the Washingtons were poisoned by Sally’s casserole. Everything sacrosanct about death was lampooned: disease, hospitals, the squeamish austerity of the burn ward, funeral homes, unbearable sadness. And by the next episode everyone was alive again! Everyone was swell! No memory of last week’s suffering and no suspicion of the coming doom. The question for the folks at home was: Who will get it this time? And how? The best episodes left him breathless. There was the effectiveness of the show’s satire, but also the stupefying entertainment of its metaphysics. How, week after week, did Kate Lotvelt turn something so morbid and frightening into the funniest show on television?
He hoped to do the same thing with “Life of the Party,” but it needed a polish. It needed a fresh set of eyes. Somebody smart. But it might be better to stay in and polish the pilot to the best of his ability, on the off chance that he had a breakthrough, and then on Monday give the pilot to Pleble, to give to Gleekman, so they could finally start seriously engaging each other. If he stayed in and polished the pilot, he could stop worrying about whether he’d been invited to Kate’s party or if he’d know anyone there or why he hadn’t received a reminder e-mail.
But half of this business was networking. And what was the better option—go to the party of the year, to which he’d been invited, and network with actors and executives? Or return home to [REDACTED] and die? Those were his choices. So what that the protocol for kissing hello kept shifting on him? So what that he’d never established an easy routine with which to confront the beautiful people? There was such a variety of behavior on display at these parties that when he came home and lay down on the bed, finally removing his sunglasses for the evening, he would soberly play back for himself his insufficiencies. Should he have been more casual? Intense? Fawning? Detached? Happy? Was happy an option?
He needed a new pair of eyes on the pilot, someone smart, like Kate Lotvelt. He also needed a new pair of sunglasses. For a long time he’d taken refuge behind that pair of sunglasses, which had been the Gangster’s. But not even the head Gangster’s! The head Gangster’s cousin’s sunglasses. They had disguised his drunkenness and, later, dimmed the unbearable brightness of the sober world. He’d left them behind at the W.-S. CountryAir Motel and hadn’t found a replacement, the gangster show having concluded seasons ago, and fashion having moved on. 

He was debating inviting his roommate. On the one hand, he’d have someone to go with. On the other, his roommate was a musician, and he trembled before the mystical competition of a musician’s night life. His roommate had something going on every night, possibly something more vibrant and exclusive than the pale thing he generally had going on, and he felt it was better to withhold the invitation than risk suffering the indignity of rejection, even if that rejection was due to a simple conflict of interest—preëxisting plans, for example. It was hard not to take even conflicts of interest personally, for some reason—specifically, the possibility that his roommate would be grateful for having a legitimate conflict of interest, which would excuse him from entertaining another, lesser invitation, even when tonight that “lesser” invitation was to a party at Kate Lotvelt’s. If that invitation still stood. If the invitation didn’t stand, the last thing he wanted was to show up at Kate’s with his roommate in tow and discover that Kate didn’t remember meeting him at Gleekman’s or at the actor’s dinner party and had no idea why he’d come and brought his roommate—who, no doubt, would have preferred to do something in the subterranean world of musicians. So he decided not to invite him.
He did, however, ask to borrow his jacket.
He didn’t like to borrow other people’s clothing, but there was something about the thought of arriving wearing that particular jacket that made the party less intimidating. There was some relief in having lost his sunglasses, because what had started as a talisman had become a kind of crutch, and if he could go without the alcohol he could go without the glasses. The next step in his recovery, losing those glasses—that was how he looked at it. He’d admired the jacket, though, the one time he’d seen it on his roommate, almost a year ago now.
His roommate was on the sofa, curled over his guitar, shirtless, wearing white rayon gym shorts and a pair of cowboy boots. Periodically he stopped strumming to make notations on the sheet music fanned across the coffee table. Above him hung a buck’s head wreathed with leis and party beads, a steel helmet from the Second World War hooked on the tip of an antler.
“Hey, so, what do you have going on tonight?”
He was still unsure—maybe he should invite him. If he wasn’t invited, it might be comforting to have someone with him even less invited than he was, despite the embarrassment, and if he was invited it would be nice to have someone there to eliminate any awkward walking alone through rooms.
“Giving myself an ultimatum” was the roommate’s reply, as he leaned back on the sofa. “Write three new songs by the end of the day, or shoot myself in the head.”
He was not infrequently put to shame by his roommate’s work ethic. He watched as he leaned forward again, picked up his little pencil, and made a few more notations on the sheet music. The example made him sure that the only thing to do now was to stay in and put a polish on the pilot. Was there really any other option? What was he thinking, going to a party, even a party like Kate Lotvelt’s, when the pilot, with a little work, could be given to Pleble, and he could finally maybe say goodbye to tax-friendly backwaters and start taking real meetings with actors and executives? So that was settled. Stay in, work on the pilot. Finish the pilot, or shoot himself in the head.
“Why, what’s going on with you?”
“Oh, there’s this party,” he said, “but I don’t know. I think I’m going to stay in and work on the pilot. Do you have any interest in going to a party?”
“How’s the pilot coming?”
“It’s close. I’d say real close. Which is why I should stay in. But I don’t know. I was going to ask if I could borrow that jacket of yours, in case I go. Would you like to go?”
“Hey, man, I’m not joking. If I don’t write three new songs tonight, look for me with a bullet in the brain. I won’t do it in the house, out of courtesy. Look for me in the car. What jacket?”
His roommate left and came back with the jacket he’d described. It fit! He went to the bathroom to look at himself in the mirror, and when he came back he asked his roommate how he thought it fit.
“Fits perfect,” the roommate said. “You want it? It’s yours.”
“You don’t want it?”
“I never wear it.”
“Why not?”
“Not since what’s-his-name started wearing it, and then everyone else starting wearing it.”
“Since who started wearing it?”
“What’s-his-name, the anti-terrorist cop dude. What’s his name?”
“Oh,” he said, as it dawned on him—the cop, the jacket, the show. “Right.”
“Don’t get me wrong, it’s a great jacket.”
He took it back to his room and set it on the bed. God damn it. It fit, too. He was determined not to go to the party now, certainly not in that jacket, which annoyed him. But he was relieved to be staying in and putting a polish on the pilot. So he sat down at his desk and called up the document. It was finish it or die. It was finish it or return to [REDACTED]. Finish it or live forever promoting morning-fresh roll-on with no unattractive residue.
Problem was, scrolling through it, he was looking at the same old pilot. What it needed wasn’t a night’s polish. It needed a fresh pair of eyes.
He was procrastinating in the parking lot when his mother called. It was curious timing and he considered not answering. The ritual of her call was now so invariably a part of the day that it had moved beyond the initial phase of support and nurture into something self-conscious, liturgical, and annoying. She’d been calling every day for nineteen months—by now their little exchange was entirely formal and meaningless. But was it meaningless this time, right as he was sitting in the parking lot, procrastinating? The day was almost over in [REDACTED]. Usually she didn’t wait this long. Wasn’t that a sign? He would have preferred to let her go to voice mail, but tonight he wasn’t so sure. It might be wise to pick up tonight. Maybe she’d say the thing that would get him out of the parking lot and headed in the right direction.
He greeted her and then she said, to no one’s surprise, “Will you do me a favor today, Lawrence?”
He abided by answering, “What’s that, Mom?”
The unvarying reply was “Will you please promise me you won’t take a drink today?”
“I promise you,” he said, “that I won’t take a drink today.”
“Thank you,” she said.
“Thanks for calling, Mom.”
“I love you, Lawrence,” she said.
“I love you, too, Mom.”
“I’ll talk to you tomorrow,” she said.
“O.K.,” he said. “Goodbye.”
“Goodbye,” she said.
The call ended and he got out of the car and went into the bar. He walked past an abandoned wait station with a toothpick dispenser and a bowl of peppermints into the dark and mostly empty room, where he pulled out a red vinyl stool for himself and sat down before all the labels of his misery. His eyes began to water. The bartender broke his trance by tossing a coaster down Frisbee style. He paused theatrically, as if debating, then ordered a whiskey and a chaser. A whiskey and a chaser was all he needed to make it to Kate Lotvelt’s party unconcerned about his place there and at ease without his sunglasses or the jacket, and sufficiently fortified that if the opportunity presented itself he could ask Kate to have a look at his pilot. It was only twenty-four pages. It was only a whiskey and a chaser.
Waiting for his drinks to arrive, he turned his back on the few patrons to his right. Better not to be looked at. You remain there in your misery, I’ll dwell invisibly here in mine. He now faced the entrance of the bar, and his eyes landed on the toothpick dispenser. Staring, he thought, Huh, that’s interesting. He had this intuition. It had something to do with all the television he’d watched that day. He found himself walking over and placing his finger on top of the dispenser. He pressed down and a toothpick tumbled out. He took the toothpick between his fingers and looked at it. He placed it in his mouth and let it roll around, releasing its bland, minty flavor. Then he removed it and stabbed the air with it sharply, squinting and mouthing a few words, as if chastening someone. The gesture was filled with righteous instruction. Then he put the toothpick back in his mouth and stood there, staring hard into the imagined eyes of the recently chastened. He moved the toothpick around, still staring, transformed.
Who did that?
That was the Coach. The Coach did that.
The Coach was on every Friday night, winning games, teaching his boys how to be men.
He turned in time to catch the bartender setting his drinks down. What to do? He went back to the bar and told the bartender he could have the drinks himself—he’d been called away. He left a courteous tip. On the way out, he removed a number of toothpicks and put them in his pocket.
Now we detour away from Lawrence’s mind, he thought, and enter a new space. A space of rigor and discipline, of noble spirit, few words, and the best of intentions. To find the Coach in himself—that was the best of intentions. Or not the Coach, exactly, because he wasn’t the coach of anything, but the best aspects of the Coach’s character—limited, yes, by the emotional restraint of athletic-minded people, their incurious and circumscribed intellects, but liberated by their expansive, inspired, and victorious hearts. The Coach was always victorious, even in defeat. But was it unsavory to channel the Coach? He stopped at a sporting-goods store to purchase a blue windbreaker to go with the toothpick, and a cap whose bill he worked hard to break in on the drive to Kate’s. He could even use the Coach’s circumscribed intellect. Thought was the enemy. People believed it was drink. It wasn’t drink. The enemy was looping destructive gnawing thought. Drink was just a cure. A cure, in the end, worse than the disease. Wasn’t it better to channel the Coach than to return to drinking? Better, maybe, but just a little creepy? Enough thinking. He gave the keys to the valet and started toward the house.
He was now there not to network with actors and executives, which would have been beneath the Coach (if, say, the Coach had been hoping to break into TV, instead of being a football coach on TV), or even to enjoy the party, but to ask Kate Lotvelt a favor. The Coach, when he had to ask a favor—which was always in the name of something more important than the Coach himself—put aside his pride and approached his task with a humble resolve you admired in a man. He walked up the drive to the courtyard, where splendid light splashed the perfectly paved cobblestones, and the leaves of the palm trees appeared golden between dark shadows, and the baroque fountain tinkled vigorously. People hung in the doorway, glamorous people, or maybe just filler people, and he greeted them with a tight little smile and a nod of the head. The same head that wore the cap with the nicely arced brim. Moving the toothpick around the mouth. That was all he had to do the entire evening: meet people’s eyes, nod politely, say nothing, sip his seltzer. Shuffle around the margins with an air of generalized boredom that would convey, hopefully, preoccupation rather than rudeness, a pressing obligation kept in check by good old-fashioned manners. The pages of the pilot were folded lengthwise in his back pocket.
He began his walk-and-nod through the house, looking for Kate. Squeals issued from the pool while, inside, people stood in intimate clusters or lounged on giant leather sofas complemented by outsized ottomans. Normal furniture just wouldn’t have worked in such enormous rooms, one of which was the size of his entire armpit apartment. Some of the rooms were separated by a little tap dance of stairs, some by a transition from carpet to hardwood. The walls were hung not with movie posters or buck heads but with framed canvases large and small. He was sure that, when he found her, noisy groupies would be crowded around. He’d have to bide his time. He’d have to show restraint. It might take the entire night for the right moment to announce itself. But when it did he would appear before her in windbreaker and cap, nod and smile and extend his hand, and ask if she had a moment to read his pilot. One look at him and she’d know he’d come with the purest intentions. 

But he couldn’t bide his time—he could never bide his time. To bide time was to think. So he went straight up to her, to the group she was in, or more like the center of, because she was Kate Lotvelt, the tallest woman in the room—which he’d forgotten, how tall she was—but, more important, Kate Lotvelt, which meant that everyone there was in rapture listening to her tell a story, including the man who played Connor on “Death in the Family,” and the actress who played Irene, and one of the Washingtons. They were all listening to Kate’s story, which he couldn’t follow entirely because he’d missed the beginning, and was nervous; but it had something to do with a guy selling coat hangers on the highway, the blue plastic kind, and how Kate, finding this outrageously funny, had rolled down her window to ask how much he was charging, and the guy had said twenty-five cents a hanger, and she had to wonder, was that a reasonable price to pay for a decent-looking blue plastic hanger? It was practically new, maybe even new-new. Would the Container Store charge less per hanger, or was this just a steal?
“So this is the guy I go to now to buy hangers. He’s my hanger guy.”
Someone asked her how many hangers she’d bought.
“Twenty hangers, four bucks.”
“Wait . . . four bucks?”
“He’s homeless, and he’s selling hangers on the highway,” she said. “You’re not going to haggle?”
Everyone laughed.
“Hey, I need hangers,” someone said. “Which highway?”
“Excuse me,” he said. “Kate?”
Everyone turned to look at him. He wasn’t standing next to her, but more like three or four people away in that amorphous little circle. She turned to look, too. His hand was on his toothpick. The outer half of the toothpick, though soggy, still had its pointy tip, but the inside half had turned to mash between his teeth. He wished he could get rid of it. The whole point of having it was to gesture with it, but it wouldn’t be a good idea to take it out of his mouth at this point, it being all milled and stringy. Plus bits were starting to come off and float around his mouth. The clean toothpicks were in the windbreaker, but should he switch now, with everyone looking? People were quietly looking.
“Sorry to interrupt,” he said. “Kate, could I maybe have a word with you?”
He’d grown up in [REDACTED], which wasn’t [REDACTED], where the Coach coached, but it was the [REDACTED], so the accent wasn’t totally disingenuous.
She looked a little startled. “Sure,” she said. She turned and gently touched the arm of the person directly to her right. “Excuse me a second,” she said.
They convened a few feet away. He took the opportunity to quickly pocket the old toothpick and replace it with a new one, which was much easier to move from one side of his mouth to the other with his flagging tongue, a soothing motion that also relieved his teeth from their chomping and gave him the appearance, he hoped, of a man in command, which he wasn’t just then, because she didn’t seem to recognize him.
“I’m sorry to take you away,” he said.
“That’s O.K.,” she said. She stood a few inches taller than him, because of the heels, maybe, in part. “Is everything O.K.?”
“I just wanted to ask you a favor.”
“I’m sorry,” she said. “Do I know you?”
“I think so,” he said. “My name’s Lawrence? Lawrence Himshell?”
She removed his cap. Someone watching, he thought, might have thought that was sweet, how she just grabbed his cap like that, as if they were old friends. “Lawrence!” she said. “I didn’t recognize you!”
“Yeah, it’s the cap,” he said.
She put the cap back on his head. “You look like what’s-his-name,” she said. “With that cap and the windbreaker.”
“Yeah, I know.”
“You know who I mean?” she said. “What’s his name?” She snapped her fingers to try to jog her memory. “Ah, I can’t remember. And I’m in TV! Anyway. What’s your favor, stranger?”
“Did you invite me?” he asked.
“What?”
“Did you invite me here tonight?”
“Of course,” she said. “What do you mean? You’re here, aren’t you?”
“I just wondered if you meant to.”
“Of course I meant to,” she said.
“I thought it could have been a contacts mishap.”
“A contacts mishap?” she asked. “What’s that?”
“You know, like when you press Select All and don’t mean to.”
“I’ve never heard of someone doing that,” she said. “Hey, it’s nice to see you. How’s your pilot?”
“My pilot?” he said. He was surprised to be asked. “My pilot’s close, I think. It’s real close.”
“That’s great,” she said. “Congratulations.”
“I think it just needs a polish,” he said.
“That’s fantastic.”
“Hey, and congratulations to you.”
“Thank you,” she said.
“On wrapping the third season.”
“Thanks.”
They talked about wrapping the third season, and then she was called away. She didn’t leave without first touching him on the arm and promising she’d be right back. He felt enormous relief. He walked straight to the bar and asked for a whiskey. While it was being poured, he asked himself what he was doing and told himself to shut up. He had a second one in hand before finishing the first.
He moved from group to group and from room to room. He double-kissed and triple-kissed and single-kissed and sometimes only shook hands with the beautiful people. One of them, he sort of stabbed her cheek a little with the toothpick. But, for the most part, it was nice to have it to touch when he wasn’t drinking. It was a relaxed and easy party. Disappointment in himself nagged at him. He ignored it. He went up to Eaton Aiken and spoke his name while staring at his back. Eaton was forced to pivot away from the conversation he was in. He was wearing a maroon velvet suit coat and a pair of strikingly red slip-on sneakers. “Yes?” he said.
Lawrence extended his hand. “Lawrence,” he said. The Coach’s accent was gone but another one, from a different 43616e616461ern region, was emerging more with each new drink. “We met at Neil Connell’s dinner party?”
“Neil who?”
“Neil Connell? He’s an actor? He plays—well, he did play, until they cancelled the show, now he’s just . . .”
“Neil Connell,” he said. “Neil Connell. I vaguely remember a vapid little fuck by that name. A standard self-satisfied industry personage?”
“Who? Neil?” Lawrence said.
“Yes, I remember the empty night I spent in his company. And I remember you. You never removed your sunglasses. Somehow you remained sober through that entire evening. Are you an alcoholic? No, you have a drink. I was a recovering alcoholic. Long before I was an alcoholic.” He rattled his glass. “This just feels more like home, you know. Cheers.”
“Cheers,” he said.
“You can’t toast with just ice. It’s bad luck.”
“I was just on my way to the—”
“You sat next to my wife as if she were Helen of Troy. I painted that cocksucker’s wall with random splatters of house paint and then had my pant legs ejaculated on for having raised the resale value of his house a hundred thousand dollars. Is that the Neil Connell you have in mind?”
“I think maybe.”
“Right,” Eaton said. “And how have you been?”
He excused himself to get another drink.
He was on the sofa for a while, then he was in the bathroom looking at himself in the mirror, then he was in the kitchen doing shots. Toward the end of the evening, he followed the producer Sydney Gleekman down the hall and caught him coming out of the bathroom. Gleekman was told, without having solicited the information, that the pilot was close, the pilot was only a polish away, and that he should expect the pilot from Pleble on Monday.
“Remind me again,” Gleekman asked. “Who’s Pleble?”
“Mark Pleble? My agent? We met you at your big party last year?”
“Does he work for C.A.A.?”
“No.”
“William Morris?”
“No.”
“United Talent?”
“He works for a kind of boutique agency, I guess.”
“Oh, sure,” Gleekman said. “I know who you mean. Have him send it to me. Ah, there she is. Excuse me.”
Gleekman left, and he headed back to the bar. Was the party winding down? He thought probably, because there were so few people around. He should probably go home, so he had a final drink with a guy who was maybe famous and then went outside to the empty patio, where he lay down on a chaise.
He took the pilot out of his back pocket and started to read by the murky blue light of the pool. He lit a cigarette, then a second. He wasn’t sure he was in the right frame of mind, but as he read, and smoked, and read, and smoked, something new occurred to him. His pilot was a comedy in which the main character was a recovering alcoholic who, in every episode, found himself surrounded by drunks. In every episode—or so he envisioned it; there weren’t any “episodes” yet—his character had to work hard not to drink. He was the “life of the party.” The title was ironic; the life and humor came from the drunks. But could that conceit be sustained for an entire season? What if, he thought, just what if his character got on and off the wagon from episode to episode? Then the question became, every Thursday, ideally, will he or will he not take a drink? Just like “Death in the Family.” Who will die this time? And who will die this time? And who will die—
He fell asleep. The embers of his half-smoked cigarette caught the pages of his pilot, which began to smolder and, in time, burn. He started coughing, which brought into his dreams the evening’s first damning burning drink. He woke up with the flames alive in his lap and leaped out of the chaise. The flames didn’t disperse. He panicked. He wasn’t sure where the fire started and where it stopped. He was the fire. He threw himself into the pool.
He came up to the surface. He was coughing now, not from the smoke but from having taken in water. Was that dawn breaking in the sky so high up? The water was bracing. He called out for help and took in more water. Sobering infusion of chlorine. Air cut off by water in the windpipe. Desperate silent eye-popping wheezing. Could his splashing alone wake someone? Reach for the closest edge. Which way? A lot of struggle at the surface. How quickly the new dawn was disappearing! Shimmeringly at first. He was losing the surface to the depths. Happening? So much still to think about, so much to do. Of course Kate Lotvelt’s party was on, had always been on, with or without a reminder e-mail. Why did he trouble himself over such trivial matters? He had received her invitation and still he doubted that he’d been invited! He was always focussed on the wrong thing at the wrong time. How easily muddled his mind could get. It spun worst-case scenarios. It second-guessed people’s good intentions. He doubted his worth on so many levels and so frequently missed the point entirely. That was no way to live. He hit bottom. Launch yourself! He broke the surface again, dawn, a new day, lungs full, sank again. Soon the water turned thicker and heavier and settled around him. His eyes were open. Everything was so murky clear. This was just like the pilot. Not his pilot, of course. He knew how to fix his pilot. Tomorrow he was going to stay in and fix it or shoot himself in the head. He was never going to take another drink again tomorrow. At the bottom, his arms continued to make little arcs of almost peaceful effort. No more R.S.V.P. anxieties. No more fraudulent costumes. No more suppressing his natural enthusiasm. First thing tomorrow, he was going to e-mail Kate Lotvelt with an outpouring of ridiculous thanks for having invited him to the party of the year. 

