TWINS
By C. E. Morgan
The boy and his twin brother grew up on the streets of Northside, down in the little choke valley, befouled by industry, between the university hill to the southeast and the neighborhood to the north, College Hill, which had no college, despite its name, only modest white houses hinting at the white suburbs to come. College Hill breached the valley, a finger rising out of a soiled palm, pointing the way north, the way out of the city. The boys’ mother, Marie, was the first in the family to make her way out of Over-the-Rhine with a high-school diploma and an associate’s degree, and she was planning to be a teacher—to teach children just like her own—until she got sick. She wasn’t sick when they were little. She was tall and straight, small-footed, big-breasted; she wore her hair in its natural twist behind a rolled white scarf. Lipstick the color of a plum with Vaseline smeared over it. The boys laid their heads upon her, one to each pillow breast, and looked at each other across the distance of her chest, each thinking himself dark or light, depending.
But again, the valley: They lived in the valley, four miles from the river, and whenever the waters rose, as they had in 1884 and again in 1937, the gray river coursed along the low arteries of the city and swamped the heart of Northside. The wealthy lived on [REDACTED]’s seven hills, and when the flooding came they gazed down from their hills, troubled.
Just east of their neighborhood, the Harrogate factory ran day and night, never ceasing its production of soap, churning kernelate, chloride, silicate, sulfate, and, once upon a time, pork fat, until the fumes rose and drew down the sky to a low lid the color of aluminum, so that even on the clearest day the Mill Creek ran gray beneath it. Cars tunnelled through the smog-drift in the fading afternoon, passing over the viaduct from downtown and through the graceless valley on their way to the suburbs. Some days the sun fractured the filth in the air and made a hundred thousand rainbows of it. Sherbet, roses, and cantaloupe orange, wedding pink, white. The first thing Allmon would think of his tiny purchase of sky: I want to eat it.
In the valley, asthma was rampant, and both boys suffered from it when they were young, their bodies twisted by little crowing fits as they took their evening walks down Hamilton Avenue. People on the street noticed the two boys, found them mismatched against the brownfields and storefronts, their faces rosy in the polluted light, copper-sulfite highlights in their hair. They gripped their mother’s hands. No one had ever said she was beautiful, but she was young and that was a kind of beauty. People driving north sometimes thought momentarily, fondly, of their own mother, of her scent and the dry-handed grip that once secured them to her. Others would think, Black girls have kids way too young, as Marie and her sons walked south to Spring Street and Trace, the site of their first apartment, the first place the boys called home.
The boys lived in a three-story building with its entrance on Trace, so when they stood in the foyer gazing out through the glass they witnessed the riot of the neighborhood passing by. Dark shadows of migrating birds lost in the swallowing shadows of cars. The diffident faces of teen-age boys, old women with bawling strollers, the police who chatted with their mother as she swept the cigarette butts and leaves from the stoop every morning. She paid ten dollars less in rent in return for that chore. When she was done, she would sometimes lean on her broom handle, on the other side of the wavy glass, and make a game of speaking to the boys; they heard nothing, just saw the moving shape of her mouth. She made faces, they made faces, and only when one of them made a face of alarm, of soon-to-be crying—that was usually Allmon—would she open the door and come in.
Upstairs, in the hundred-year-old apartment, the ceilings were high, and bevelled French doors led to a tiny half-moon balcony overlooking the street, but their mother kept the doors duct-taped shut—the lock had been broken for years. No one ever came to fix it. Most nights they all slept on a mattress on the living-room floor, so that, when they woke to the astonishing crystal light of morning flooding through the huge windows, they woke as a family.
In that apartment, summer came like an Egyptian plague. Marie drew the blinds against the broiling heat. She took off her dress and walked through the apartment in her underpants and nothing else and when she breast-fed the boys she simply sat cross-legged on the floor like a worn, hapless Buddha, a child on each thigh. The plants drooped in the darkened air, the sun-rimmed blinds moved not an inch. She soothed the boys’ heat rash with creams and kissed their sweating heads. Sometimes she cried over their pertussive crying. These were her babies—she crushed them to her despite the heat. And when they napped she sang a hush song, sang “Hush a bye, don’t you cry, go to sleepy, little baby. When you wake you shall have all the pretty little horses, blacks and bays, dapples and grays, coach and six little horses, hush.”
Sometimes there was a man in the apartment. He was a white man, and he came and went.
The boys lived in that first apartment until 1984, when, just as they were shaping memories out of the clay of their lives, as they began to recognize themselves as Allmon and Mickey, they moved. They moved because the white man came around less and less, and when he came there were fights. He was not a tall man—he was shorter than their mother—but he was beautiful, despite a terrible thinness, with a red-brown mustache like a fish draped over his lip and a silver cigarette case in his back pocket that made white bands of the denim there. If they touched that rectangle of tobacco, he would slap their hands away, saying, “Watch yourself.” He was like a dry bath; to lie against him was to feel empty and sure, clean. Their mother placed green glass ashtrays all over the apartment so that when he came he had only to reach over their heads to find an ashtray and tap the butt to the glass. They said, “Where you been?” And he said, “North and South Carolina, [REDACTED], [REDACTED]. I just spent two days on Lady’s Island. You know what they got there?” They did not know. “Ladies!” He laughed, they laughed. “And I went to St. Augustine. You know what they got there? All the stuff you don’t know shit about.” They napped against him, but before their minds washed out to sleep the younger by three minutes, Allmon, studied his father, this man like a monument: pale marble chest, long dark hair, a brief nose, thin lips, green eyes. And the voice of somewhere else. His father said, “You are some strange kids.”
His arrivals always came unannounced, and now the checks, too, became irregular, then boxes began to gather in the center of the living room. The handleless pots were packed away, then the aloe and oxalis planters and the many tiny shoes belonging to the boys, and their mother sat on the red plaid sofa with her head in her hands, her fingers dug deep into her hairline. Allmon clung to her thighs. “Momma, Momma, what’s wrong?” “Nothing.” “Momma, what’s wrong?” “Nothing, I don’t know.” Then she looked up and her eyes pinned him to her with a ferocity he wasn’t yet frightened of. “I can’t lose nobody else. I can’t do it by myself.”
Out of their apartment on Trace, they moved down seven streets toward the southern end of the neighborhood, the cheaper end, where the viaduct crossed the sewage-strewn Mill Creek to Knowlton’s Corner, an intersection of five streets, where the commerce had been so heavy a hundred and fifty years before that on any given Sunday the crowds spilled off the sidewalk and shoppers were forced to walk in the street as they milled past the butcher’s and the stationer’s, the grocer’s, the coffin carpenter, the pharmacy, all souls touching shoulders. When the city grew, the crowds drifted north, up the hills, and the southern end of the neighborhood went to the poor working white, then to a checkered mix, then to mostly black, and the city considered Knowlton’s Corner a place that once had been. The intersection now was as careworn and antique as a wagon wheel, its spires strewn with broken glass and cigarette butts and glimmering oil, its hub home to a decaying costume shop, a gas station, a White Castle, and Garvey’s corner store. Their mother rented a two-room apartment above Garvey’s, a tiny place, shrill with the sounds the boys would associate with life: the freakish wail of sirens, men’s voices calling, [REDACTED] buses gusting by, dogs baying, children screeching in play. In July, the boys looked down from their bay window and howled with delight at the passing Independence Day parade. In the winter, the snow went as gray as tobacco ash as soon as it touched the street. And it was in this apartment that Allmon asked, “Daddy coming home?” And his mother still said, “Yes, baby.” He learned to wait before he knew what waiting was, learned to want before he had the words to want with.
Then a day came, as if a result of his waiting and wanting rather than the happenstance it was, when his father appeared again and took them both—one boy under each arm—and tossed them into the back of a gold Valiant and drove them to someplace in the city that Allmon could never exactly locate again. Somewhere on the university hill around Fairview, with its expansive views of the river. Allmon would not later remember clinging to the chrome handle of the car, crying for his mother, his father pulling him away, saying, “God damn it, quit acting like I’m gonna kill you,” while Mickey was not crying at all, already running toward the woods, the soles of his red shoes flashing. Their father carried Allmon past a chain-link fence, through a low tunnel of greenery and thorns, Allmon sniffling against his shoulder all the while, and his father saying, “Quiet! Don’t you wanna see where I hung out when I was a kid? I had fun up here.” Then, as they approached the fossil-strewn overlook, “Mickey, get the fuck away from the edge!” Mickey scrambled back from the precipitous drop, as Allmon clung to his father’s neck like a baby bear to a tree.
“I was down here two years in high school, instead of [REDACTED],” their father said. “We used to smoke up here and nobody fucked with us, you know why? ’Cause you hang out with niggers, nobody fucks with you. Word to the wise. We used to do some crazy shit up here. Look—a steamboat.” He took Allmon’s chin in his hand and forcibly turned his head around to gaze upon the expanse. “Look,” his father said again, and he looked and all he would remember later was the river like a snake, and barely the city at all—but what a city! A queen rising on seven hills over her Tiber, forming the circlet of a crown. A jagged cityscape of steel and brick and glass, with its own bright nightless burn and, beyond it, the fretful, historied amplitude of [REDACTED], that netherworld. This was [REDACTED]—the capital of pork, the first truly American city—sprawled before the eyes of two little boys under the momentary aegis of one Mike Shaughnessy, truck driver, halfhearted Lothario, collector of children, poor Irish agnate, known in high school as that fucking Irish fuck. This one man their mother had the misfortune of loving—end and beginning and middle of story. The two children, one dark-skinned and one light, gazed down at the city and its brown river that seemed far too wide and far too deep to be swum but, oh, children, it was swum.
First inkling: She swings him in wide arcs and for a moment he is loose, weightless in the air, neither up nor down but fully stopped, not yet burdened by gravity’s pull, and, just as he would fall, her arms are a cradle around his body and her voice says, “Who’s my black baby.”
Second: An old woman imparts a secret.
They were walking up Hamilton Avenue hand in hand, Marie in the middle with a boy on each side, skipping at her heels. It was their summer ritual to search out the neighborhood’s meagre garage sales. Today they needed new pots to replace the ones that had long ago lost their black handles. But, as they walked, Marie dreamed up the men she imagined her children would be; she read them their fortunes.
“In the future ball,” she said, “I see I’m gonna be a teacher. I’m gonna go back to school pretty soon here and get a degree. Mickey, I think you’re gonna be a . . . TV star, ’cause Lord knows you love attention.”
“And me?” Allmon asked, peering up at her.
“Hmm,” she hedged.
“A trucker!”
“Like your daddy?”
“Yeah.”
They passed the neighborhood bars where midmorning loungers leaned squinting in doorframes with amber bottles in hand. Here were the closed and locked churches, the apartment buildings with windows flung open to stave off the emergent heat, laundry hanging down like wrinkled flags. Women leaned on sills smoking above the laundry lines, waving absently at the boys, bored. Mickey waved back with mad enthusiasm.
Marie shook her head. “Always gotta flirt.” Then: “That’s where I work at now,” and, still grasping their hands, she pointed toward the first floor of a building that had once housed a pharmacy owned by Germans.
“A teacher,” Mickey said.
“A receptionist,” she said, “for a dentist. A dentist drills big old holes in your teeth.”
“You ain’t a teacher?”
She hesitated, as if trying to decide how to respond. Then a smile broke across her face. “Look at that yard sale there!” They dodged passing cars to get to the opposite sidewalk, where a tiny rise of lawn was strewn with colorful clothing—shirts, coveralls, patterned rayon dresses. An old woman sat there in a plastic lawn chair, her face a ruin of living. Behind her leaned an enormous house, its grandeur blunted by time, and now, paint-peeling and black-molding in its senescence, it sagged visibly from the patched roof to the porch. As Marie approached with the boys, the woman stood up, or tried to stand, but her back was askew, and she stooped like an old crone as she gazed down on them from a small rise of spring grass, a considering expression on her face. Her hair was braided down one side, white untended sprigs on the other, as though she had, for some reason, ceased the effort halfway.
“Morning,” their mother said. “Looks like it’s gonna be hot.”
“Mmm-hmm,” the woman said.
“Makes me want some air-conditioning,” Marie said, and she fanned her face once with her fingers pressed together.
“Always be hot up in here,” the woman said and she made a half-hearted gesture over her shoulder at the spavined house, but she wasn’t looking back toward the house; her gaze had drifted down first to Allmon, then inched its way over to Mickey.
“Yeah. You lived up here a long time?”
Instead of answering, the woman said, “That your baby?”
Marie didn’t have to follow the single crooked finger pointed at Allmon. “Yeah.”
“You sitting that other one?”
Marie paused a moment, then looked down at Mickey. A careful smile that didn’t prick at her eyes. “No, this one here’s my baby, too.”
“Ha!” the woman laughed, but, when Marie did not join, the woman looked swiftly back and forth from Mickey to Allmon, as if trying to see them both at the same time, and then she said, “How you get a white baby and a black baby the same age?”
“Twins,” Marie said quietly.
“Naw they ain’t! For real?” The woman hooted with laughter, her unkempt eyebrows bopping up and down. “You kidding me? Come here, come here, come here.” And she herself came forward down the sloped lawn, stepping right on top of the clothes she’d laid there, her head jutted slightly from her shoulders, and when she said, “I ain’t never seen such a thing!” Allmon hauled back on Marie’s hand with such force that she hissed, “Ow! Allmon, quit!” And he stilled.
“They don’t know they own strength,” the old woman said. Stooping toward them now: “Ain’t nothing to be scared of. I ain’t gonna hurt you.”
“Now,” Marie said quietly, gripping their hands, but not stepping backward, so that the boys were trapped before the judgment, which even they could feel was coming.
The woman’s gimlet eyes turned them up and down and over as she did the math of them; first Allmon, who turned and ground his forehead into his mother’s soft outer thigh, and then Mickey, who only stared up into the woman’s face with a strange openness like entrancement.
The woman said, “This white one got good hair.”
At this, Allmon lifted his face from his mother’s leg and peered around her at his brother. He looked at that hair, which lay smooth and orderly against a cream forehead. It was black, but fell to his brow with barely a wave, as if a mother’s hand had tended it just so. Then, with the smallest of movements, Allmon turned his face back to his mother’s thigh, so he didn’t see her when the woman said, “Oh, girl, you know I got to ask,” but he felt her stiffen right down the length of her leg. “You do it with a white boy and a brother at the same time?”
At first, Marie neither moved nor spoke, and Allmon felt her momentary paralysis and was already seized with alarm by the time she found her direction, turned, and began hauling the boys down the sidewalk in the direction they had come. She yanked them with such force that Allmon began to whine.
“Naw! I ain’t dissing your children!” the woman called behind them. “Them children is fascinating! Come back! Come back!” And she keened with laughter and watched the figure of the young woman as she retreated, her batik dress swaying, her sandals snapping smart and a boy dragging at each hand, tripping from foot to foot, the black one crying like a girl, and the white one glancing back with deep, black eyes.
Round the corner they went and down another half-block, then Marie stopped abruptly and released Mickey so that she could dab roughly at Allmon’s tears with the hem of her dress, her own eyes glistering with frustration. She said, “Quit crying, Allmon. Be a man. Be a man.”
Behind her, Mickey said, “Who that?”
His mother ignored him and he punched at her leg once.
“Who that?” he asked again.
“Nobody, Mickey! I don’t know!” She wrenched about to look at him. “How’m I supposed to know?”
“Nobody,” he said. “Her name Nobody.”
Marie didn’t comprehend for a moment. Then she laughed so suddenly and so hard that she let go of Allmon and stood up straight with her hands on her wide hips and her head thrown back. Mickey laughed at her laughing while Allmon, still crying, reached out for his mother, whispering “Up, up” to her turned back.
Down behind their building, through the dank shaft of the rear stairwell, was the spot Marie called the cement garden, their playground, the hollow heart of the turn-of-the-century tenements that formed the court of their block. The buildings towered forty feet high on every side and made a shady grove where the neighborhood children played in the summertime. A Rottweiler lay permanently chained in one corner, snoring with its caramel chin on its paws. Girls streamed from the buildings in the morning—one always climbing out through her kitchen window—and they argued and danced and screamed and double-Dutched until the noon sun blazed up the cement to a skillet. Then they huddled beneath a lintel and sucked orange Popsicles passed through a window until the two-o’clock shadows canted across their playground, and play resumed.
Mickey was the first of the twins to venture out, while Allmon maintained a blinkless vigil at their kitchen window, on the second floor. He watched how his other half ran onto the cracked cement, saw how the girls swarmed around him like honeybees, enfolding him in their crowd of bodies until he disappeared from sight. When Mickey returned ten minutes later, his cheeks were pink and his hair mussed upright and his eyes full of devil. The next time, Allmon went with him. But as they emerged from the shadows of their building he was seized with a reserve so sudden and so crippling that he simply stood on the stone step clutching the doorjamb, gazing at the girls through the veil of his lashes. They were oblivious, jumping and calling while a bandy-legged girl skipped through the lines, her hands perched on her lean hips, her beads up and down and clacking. As he watched, a tiny bunch of foil fell and two beads sailed off and spun away on the cement.
“Your hair! Your hair!” the girls screeched, and the jumper leaped from the eggbeater, her hands to her head, and then she spotted the boys. Her eyes sparked with excitement, and, with two fingers pinching the braid tight, she cried, “The Oreo babies!”
“The Oreo babies!” Seven girls, a gaggle, all sweat and brightness and exhilarated jostling, pressed in toward Mickey as Allmon hung back in a shy twist of limbs, but the girl who had lost her beads came to him and smiled down and petted him on the head as though he were a sweet dog.
“This one has a face like an old man,” she said as she inspected the preternaturally heavy brow, the knife-jut cheekbones, the hollowed cheeks.
“Danelle, why you always talk so white?”
“I don’t!” she cried, wounded, whipping around.
“Yes, you do!” in a chorus.
“Danelle wanna be white!”
“I don’t!”
“You do!” 

“I want some babies like you,” another girl interrupted, stepping forward, ignoring the jeering. She was their tall, unspoken leader and her words stanched the argument. She still held the ends of the fallen ropes in her hands.
“I ain’t no baby,” Mickey said, indignant splashes of red on his cheeks.
“Baby!”
“Baby!”
“Baby!”
“How you get white if you got a black mama?” someone said.
“I ain’t white!” Mickey cried, slewing about to find the speaker.
“You white!”
“Your daddy white?”
From the midst of all those arms and legs and cocked heads, Mickey’s eyes found Allmon, and he said, loudly, like a dare, “My daddy black.”
The girl petting Allmon narrowed her eyes. “Is your daddy really black?” she asked, but Allmon, under the impress of her hand, could only gaze up at her with an adoration like heartache.
“Jump, jump!” one girl cried, and they took up the chorus and then they were re-formed and slinging a single rope and Mickey jumped, his little knees pumping, his hands splayed, his pale face angry with concentration.
“Double, double!” The second rope sloped in and Mickey hopped from leg to leg and the girls clapped a duple rhythm and were about to sing when Mickey’s toe tagged the rope and he went over in a bruising tangle. In a moment, the girls were on him, screeching and kissing his face and lying on top of him, so that he had to scratch and bite to emerge from the giggling heap, a little convict up on his toes and ready to run.
Allmon was watching, Allmon was ready, and when the girls again said, “Jump, jump!,” it was he who stepped forward this time—a muscular little boy in a ragged white undershirt, his hair poufed slightly out of form, his brown eyes recessed beneath his brow. He bore the tiniest hint of a smile on his lips. The girl at his side gave him a soft shove between the shoulder blades. “This one wants to jump!” she said.
“Let him jump!” And then he was jumping simple on the single line, so that he could look up at the turner who bobbed her head open-mouthed with each swing, her pink tongue visible through her missing front teeth. He looked right into her eyes, and she looked into his as she swung the rope with dutiful focus.
“I like coffee, I like tea,” they sang, “I like the Oreos to jump with me! Double-Dutch!” Both ropes rasped now. Allmon pattered and played and turned around twice for the whoops and hollers, and he was much better than Mickey, because he’d stood and watched from the window, watched the girls, memorized the patterns of their feet. A shadow of cloud swept the playground and the turner glanced up, and while her chin was uplifted, Allmon judged the descent of the rope and faked a hop and went down with a thud and a false “Ow!” and rolled on his back for the welcome, his arms wide.
They were on him. They laid their bodies over his and took his face in their hands and kissed on him. Their breath was hot and their mouths sticky. Their wings beat on him lightly and he laughed and the clouds went speeding along over the cement casting shadows as big as airplanes.
“What’s your name?”
“Allmon.”
“Almond, Almond, Almond!”
They kissed his mouth.
“Mickey!” It was their mother’s voice calling. “Allmon!”
The girls sprang back from his prone body and there was Marie, leaning out their kitchen window, calling down, “Don’t you molest my child!” The girls just studied the ground, and then one in their midst said, “Ain’t nobody molested nobody,” and Marie leaned even farther out the window so that she looked about to tumble out, saying, “Ain’t been on top of my boy, then? That child is five years old! Don’t be putting your hands on my boy’s business.” Someone tittered. Then Marie yelled, “[REDACTED] vultures!,” and the girls were gone just like that, scattered like jacks into their respective apartments, but, when Allmon looked up into the sunlit air where his mother was gazing down, she was smiling. “Get on up here,” she said. “I got good news to tell you boys.” By the time Allmon had risen, still feeling the weight of the girls on him, Mickey was halfway up the stairs.
“Guess what?” Marie was crouching down to their height when they tumbled breathless into the apartment.
“What!” they cried.
“It’s a surprise! Guess what?” She was whipping them up, grinning madly at one, then the other. Her dimples were deep enough to fit a child’s thumb. Allmon’s blood was up; he was so excited, he hopped on one leg with a pained expression on his face, his hands about to flutter off his wrists.
“Daddy’s coming to visit and y’all are going to the Northside carnival!”
“Aaah!” they screeched in tandem and went tearing through the apartment, careering from couch to chair to bed. A plant toppled, and Mickey became so overheated he pinned Allmon down on the bed, pummelling him with his fists. Marie followed at a run and separated them by throwing herself down on her stomach with an arm flung out over each panting boy, pinning them.
“Now for a serious talk,” she said.
“Aw,” Mickey said, trying to wriggle away.
“Get serious now,” she said, and they stilled. “Now, you know how long it’s been since your daddy was up here? Oh, my Lord,” she said. “It’s been forever. But he’s coming back. He is coming back. So I’m begging you. Allmon, Mickey, your mother is begging you. Y’all need to go get some good behavior and be on it, ’cause—”
Allmon watched her face grow grave.
“—’cause I need this family,” she said, barely above a whisper. “Ain’t nothing really real without that man. So just be good is all I’m saying. If we’re really good maybe we can get him to stay awhile.” She laid her head down on the bed between them and placed one palm to each of their foreheads. “Be my best.”
“Yeah!” Mickey cried and gassed off the bed, flinging himself around the doorjamb. “I’m the best!” they heard him calling.
Allmon and Marie lay there, listening to each other breathe. Then the child said, “I miss Daddy,” and, when Marie turned on her side to look at him, the openness of his face and the uninsured hope she saw there caused her heart to stop. “Me, too,” she said.
Sometimes he woke with a start to the shattering loop of sirens, blue and red spangled on the bedroom wall. Other nights, it was the screaming that kept him awake: the couple upstairs, or the family across the cement garden, up on the third floor. Summertime was the worst. With the windows open, the screaming was a physical thing, like a hot wind in the room—he dreamed of witches—until he cried out, louder than all of them, “Momma!”
She was there. “Allmon.” Her voice grated by exhaustion.
“I wanna go.”
“Sh-h-h. I know.”
“They be steady screaming.”
“You got to pretend they ain’t there.”
“They in the room?”
“Ain’t nobody in this room but you and me and Mickey.”
Mickey was awake, but saying nothing. They could feel his presence.
Staccato shrieks, followed by the great bellow of a man’s voice.
“Up, up.”
“You’re too sensitive, Allmon. You’re gonna be in school soon. I’m too tired for this.”
But she was his mother, she held him anyway. She squeezed onto his part of the sagging mattress and lifted his curled form onto her lap. He snuggled his head between her breasts, his hands clasped at his throat.
“Away, please,” he said.
“Where you wanna go away to?”
“To Daddy.”
“He’s coming home soon, baby.”
A foul curse word shot across the cement garden and Allmon cried out.
“Sh-h-h!” Mickey hissed in the dark.
“Sh-h-h,” Marie said gently. “Just go on back to sleep.”
“They saying bad things.”
“Baby,” she said. “You just got to pretend they’re singing.”
He came on a Friday morning, bounding up the stairs with an enormous box in his hands, which turned out to contain a new, stainless-steel cook set. Their mother was getting ready for work, but she stopped rummaging in her purse when he walked in with the summer air around him, stepped to greet him, and pressed herself against the length of his body. The boys barely managed their joy. This man’s face, so wondrous after a long absence, brought mystery, the mystery of themselves. Allmon wedged himself between his parents’ bodies.
“I’ll be back at five,” Marie said and, with a finger against their father’s chest, asked, “Want me to bring you some dinner?” Her eyes were chestnut warm.
“Yeah,” he said, shrugging. “Bring me dinner. Bring me something from the Fifth Amendment.”
“A pastrami sandwich. I know you like that.”
He made a face and rolled his eyes. “Naw. Bring me a burger. I’m tired of that pastrami shit.” He looked down at the boys, grinning crookedly and reaching for his cigarette case. “You tell somebody that you like pastrami, then—bam!—it’s pastrami all the time till you can’t stand the smell of it. God, woman.” He laughed, the tiniest dart of a look in her direction. His long, dark hair was gathered back in a ponytail to reveal his freckled cheekbones, stark from underweight. Allmon stared up at him wide-eyed.
“Now, the boys get a snack at ten and then—”
“I know, Marie.” His chin marking the period.
She smiled. “I know you know.” She kissed him again, and he let her have his shadowy cheek.
“Have fun,” she said.
“Fun!” Mickey yelped.
And then she was gone.
“Well,” Mike said. He heaved his skinny shoulders up and down once, and glanced around the sunny room. Then he made his way to the couch and stretched out, not bothering to remove his shoes.
“When we be gonna—” Mickey said.
“Whoa.” Mike laughed. “That’s some serious black talk from a little white boy. We’re not going nowhere till way after lunch, so shut it down.”
Mickey started back. “Now,” he said softly.
“Nope, not till after lunch.”
Mickey quit his grin. Then he leaned back against the door as if standing guard, watching. Allmon crept around the side of the couch where his father lay, sought out a hand, gripped it with both of his, and tugged gently.
“What kind of animals is at the carnival?” he said.
Mike freed his hand from that clinging grasp and ran his fingers lazily over Allmon’s Afro. “Bears,” he said. “Snakes, and horses and like um . . . They had baby crocodiles in some aquariums once, I think.”
“What’s that?” Mickey asked—the sound small, almost unwilling—from where he stood at the door.
“Oh, fuck, I’m so tired. I got like three hours of sleep last night. I drove all the way from [REDACTED]. Um, a crocodile is like a fish with a fucked-up grill and legs.”
“Ah!” Allmon made a frightened face.
Mike tucked his hands into his armpits and closed his eyes. “You boys wake me up in two hours,” he said.
Allmon immediately snatched a pillow from the couch and lay down on the floor in miniature imitation of his father. “Tell me a story,” he said.
“A story,” Mike said, settling further into the cushions, his brow furrowed. “I don’t know any stories. I’m no good at that. No, wait—wait, here’s one. O.K., here’s a good one. So one time there was this football game, except it was really, really cold. Not just any cold, like forty below and shit. But this is football, you know, so you gotta do what you gotta do. But that shit was a mess; the guys couldn’t feel their fingers and toes and the field was pretty much ice, so every time there was a tackle it was cutting through their uniforms and shit. Guys were bleeding all over the place, they were fumbling punts, Green Bay’s kicker was missing the goddam field goals ’cause he couldn’t feel his feet. So fourth quarter, everybody’s all hypothermic and fucked up and it’s about to be over, and then—tada!—make way for Bart Starr.”
“Bart Starr?” Allmon said.
“Yeah, man. Bart Starr was Jesus Christ, the great white hope. So it’s the fourth quarter, [REDACTED] is up three, Green Bay’s third and goal, and this is it. Starr calls a time-out, and he’s gotta make a decision. They’re really close, but his team is falling apart. They all just wanna go home, ’cause it’s cold as a witch’s tit. But Bart Starr knows what every dude figures out eventually: when the shit hits the fan, there’s nobody looking out for you, there’s only you, and you’re gonna have to bleed to get the thing done. So you know what he does? Quarterback fucking sneak. He fucking dives in head first and burns [REDACTED] down to the ground.” He yawned so his face stretched horribly. “Nobody expected it. They thought he was gonna pass to buy a little time. Nope. Best moment in football history right there.”
He stopped. He wasn’t sleeping, but his eyes were closed again. “Best moment of my fucking life right there. So, hey, Allmon,” he said and he yawned another deep yawn that shook his entire body. “You know what. . . . Someday I’m gonna take you and . . .” And then he was asleep.
When Allmon awoke, the sun was insistent; it pressed smothering heat into his face, causing itchy rivulets of sweat to travel into his hair. His brother was no longer in the room. He reached up and touched the white hand of his father, which had fallen listless into the air between them. He gripped a finger and the man woke, his eyebrows starting.
“Hey, kid,” he said softly. “Your ma got any beer in the fridge?”
Allmon went to look. He brought back a can of ginger ale. His father smiled, then hauled himself up to a sitting position, twisting around to peer over the couch back, his face weary and worn like a much older man’s. There were lines from the pillow on his right cheek.
“Go open the fridge,” he said, and Allmon did as he was told, standing there like a tiny game-show hostess with the fridge contents on display. “That’s the beer,” his father said, pointing toward a gold box. “Bring me two.”
He drank the first in two draughts. The second he drank lying down again, in slow sips and spilling some, while Allmon stared at the sliding motions of his Adam’s apple.
“How’s your ma been?” he asked.
“Good,” Allmon said brightly.
“Where’s your brother at?”
Allmon made a confused gesture and Mike said, “Oh, shit,” but he didn’t rise. “One more beer,” he said, then, “Two.” And then, after drinking one, he was asleep again.
Mickey reëntered the room, and looked down soundlessly at the body of their father in its berth, at his thin hands crossed on his chest. Then he trailed around the room like a phantom, picking at dust from the sills with a fingertip, gazing down at the busy continuance of Hamilton Avenue. When Mike awoke suddenly, saying again, “Allmon, grab me a beer,” Allmon jumped to his feet and fetched it, but Mickey just remained where he was, with his brows drawn and his eyes trained on all the animated figures outside wandering in the direction of the carnival two blocks up. He leaned against the glass and made a face at no one.
Soon their father began to snore, a lumbering, unhealthy, grownup sound. Mickey turned from the window, and with an expression on his face like dawning suspicion, more rudimentary than anger, he went and placed his small hand on his father’s shoulder. He shook him once, then again and with increasing force until the man was rolling on the couch like a log in heavy water. Finally, Mike brushed Mickey’s hand away. “Let me sleep,” he said thickly, without opening his eyes.
Allmon could not later recall how they found themselves on the street. But his hand was in his brother’s and his brother was leading the charge and they were caught in the stream of humanity—they were soldiers, they were refugees, the two of them and their third brother, impulse. The crowd absorbed them as it flowed northward toward the intersection, where the trucks had driven in with their animal cargo, though once upon a time the animals had rolled in on boxcars from [REDACTED], halting just west of Knowlton’s Corner, so, as the evening sun was setting, children in their beds heard the grieved crying of leopards and the hooting of monkeys in their enclosures and couldn’t sleep for the thrill.
At the roped-off intersection, there was too much to see: snakes in grimy glass cages, a panther in a boxcar on wheels weaving from side to side in menace, a bald red wildcat in a harness hissing at passersby, a baby giraffe in a cage half the height of a building. All around, the people of the neighborhood were half-drunk on a day off work, or simply drunk, kissing their girlfriends in broad daylight like men on leave, carrying their children on their strong shoulders—Allmon saw them, those children held aloft like trophies by their parents, squealing at the animals, licking vanilla cones, calling to one another over people’s heads. He saw girls he knew from the building, in bright dresses, weaving giddily through the crowd, which stood body to body, everyone sewn together like a great and continuous garment.
“Look!” Mickey said. In the center of the intersection sat a reddish-brown bear on its haunches, its fat belly protruding. A massive, rusty choke leash encircled its neck, the other end held by an old man who was as fat as his bear, all sloped shoulders and paunch, with gray eyes below his glabrous, sunburned scalp.
“You wanna guess his weight and win a stuffed bear?” the man asked, rattling the gargantuan leash with some effort. Though the tug of the leash caused the bear to sway slightly to the left, its eyes were trained high on nothing. It seeped a scent like a basement. When it blinked, Allmon saw the ponderous black sweep of its eyelashes. He reached up and felt the whisper-touch of his own lashes against his fingertips. He thought, I got wings on my eyes, and the thought was so odd and yet so pleasing to him that he felt suddenly that he was immensely special, that there could be no one like him in the world. He shivered.
“Guess his weight,” the man said again. Mickey craned his head back to look at the bear. He frowned.
“In pounds,” the man said, as if there were another option. He looked side to side. “Where’s your mom at?” he said.
“This bear got a name?” Allmon said.
“Ten pound,” Mickey said.
The man snorted and the bear shifted its shaggy weight, right to left, still sunk on its haunches. Its knees were patchily bald, showing wrinkled tawny skin, as if it had plucked its own fur out. If the bear’s face bore an expression, it was impossible to tell. The language of its body was useless here. 

“Come on, guess again.”
“Twenty pound.”
The man laughed halfheartedly, but Allmon was suddenly at the outer limits of his brother’s fingertips. In the ruction, beyond the bear and the tidal force of all those people, stood a horse. The horse wasn’t much to look at, just a nag bought up by a carnie for forty dollars before the slaughterhouse in Peoria. She stood there with a ragged cob in her eyes and surbate hooves almost too tender to walk upon, but she was tall, and still awesome in her shabbiness. She was fifteen hands high, though her back swayed dangerously down at the middle and her rear knees pigeoned inward. Like the bear, she seemed to be missing hair at her sides, as if a saddle had worn some of her pinto coat away. Her eyes were very blue, eyes void of protest or argument, full of calm, momentful existence, perhaps without memory. Was she sad? They were the eyes of a dwindling life, of a horse accustomed to the rowel on her silver bit, to a man’s grim hand on her headstall. She moved her mouth gently, as though she were chewing on something. She turned her head, and one blue eye settled on Allmon.
He pulled at his brother’s hand.
“A hundred pound,” Mickey was saying, and the man, grown tired of the game, handed him a blue stuffed bear anyway, which Mickey grasped greedily to his chest.
“Now, where’s your mom at?” the man asked again. Mickey didn’t answer; Allmon was dragging him away in the direction of the horse, but before he could stand under her docile eye, before he could ask, “She got a name?,” and the man beside her could say, “Molly. You want to sit on her back?,” a woman’s risen voice said, “Who do those boys belong to?,” and another woman halted Mickey with a hand on his shoulder, saying, “Honey, where’s your mama at?” In an instant, his shoulder slipped her grasp and they were on the run, screaming with laughter and wicked, free delight, skidding around bodies and trash cans and animals until five victorious minutes later, their mission complete, they stood breathing raggedly over the snoring body of their father, and there, in the yeasty gloam of the shaded room, they quieted. They didn’t look at each other. Allmon tallied thirteen gold cans on the floor by the couch, one only half drunk. Mickey walked away without a word, then sulky footsteps knocked down the stairs leading to the cement garden, and a door slammed. Allmon stooped and studied his father’s face with care: the sharp, sure lines of his cheeks and chin, his brow creased even in sleep, his freckles like tiny smudges of dirt. White skin. White skin the color of flour, of paper, of snow, of stars, of pearls, of dresses at church, of his brother’s face.
“Wake up,” he whispered and, when there was no response, a funny sound escaped him. His vision bled. Then he balled his hand into a little fist and, with all the strength he possessed, he struck his father on the bone of his shoulder. The snoring ceased and Mike’s bleary red eyes opened. They focussed slowly on Allmon’s face. Then one hand reached forward and stopped a tear as it tracked down a cheek.
“Hey, Jude,” he said, “don’t be sad.” 

