THE KID
By Salvatore Scibona

The boy wore a black parka, a matching ski cap, bluejeans, and sneakers; he appeared to be five years old; and he was weeping.
He stood at Gate C3, [REDACTED]-Fuhlsbüttel Airport, his padded arms limp at his sides. He was talking through his sobs—not shouting or pleading, just talking to one attendant after another—but no one could figure out what language he was using. It seemed, somehow, Polish. The hodgepodge dialect of a town that ten different empires had captured on their way to someplace else.
An AirBaltic flight had disgorged its passengers at a nearby gate less than an hour before. The flight having come from [REDACTED], it may have been Latvian the boy was speaking. But by the time he materialized in front of the counter at C3 the plane from [REDACTED] had pulled away from the terminal and no AirBaltic employees remained at the gate or anywhere else in the concourse. He looked up at the agents behind the counter, stating his case incomprehensibly, while two hundred travellers watched, mesmerized, waiting for Lufthansa 531 to [REDACTED].
It might have been Lithuanian.
Soon the boy was barely forming words at all; he only pointed in the direction of Gates C1 and C2. But the custodian for whom half a dozen Lufthansa employees and passengers began to search the smoking cabins and bathrooms, and to whom the airport intercom called out in German, could not be found anywhere at the lower end of the concourse.
“Je m’appelle Laurence. Comment t’appelles-tu?”
“Ich heiße Elisabeth. Wie heißt du?”
But no one could get him to divulge anything that sounded like a name. And some of the adults around him began to think that their solicitousness only aggravated his distress. Each question elicited less of a response.
A nurse from [REDACTED] knelt at the boy’s side, petting his hair, but he persisted in weeping. The boy’s coat fit him poorly: the cuffs fell short of his wrists. Bits of batting poked out of several tears in its shell, which somebody had tried to mend with electrical tape. A Lufthansa clerk—whose age (about sixty) and whose vast, highlighted hairdo seemed to put her in charge—tried using English, Russian, and Dutch to extract a name. Yet to the Kazakh nurse it seemed that the boy knew they were asking for his name; and, in the nightmare of his present, his withholding the name was the only thing that tied him to the lip of the chasm into which he had slipped. He aimed a curving finger toward the labyrinth of the rest of the airport, as though in search of a misstep. He let the nurse hold his snotty hand. He led her and the clerk down the teeming corridor.
A young 556e6974656420537461746573n who said he was an E.M.T. asked, “Would the boy like to breathe into this bag? Quieres hablar conmigo, hermano?”
The clerk said emphatically, “No, he is Estländer.” But it was only a guess.
The intercom repeated in English, “Terminal 1, a child in lost-and-found,” while the boy hustled along, incongruous: a body automatized with purpose, as though if you got close enough you would hear him ticking. And yet, under his crooked hat, his face was anarchic with spasmodic blinks and sniffles. The chest heaved in the little coat. The nurse tried to unzip it. She thought the boy must feel terribly hot. But he twisted away when she touched him. It was incredible that the head could hold so much liquid; he had been crying for so long now without a drink. The nurse and the clerk took him into the ladies’ room to get him some paper towels.
After they came out, he wouldn’t let either of the women hold his hand. He snatched it back when they tried to take it, and pointed this way, then that way, until they began to see that he was not retracing his steps after all. He was groping in a maze. For a parent. And he didn’t want either of these strange women to help him. But he hoped they would stick around.
Soon after Elroy Heflin enlisted in the Army, he was assigned to an Office of Defense Cooperation attached to the U.S. Embassy in [REDACTED], Latvia, as the country prepared to join nato. Those were great days. All the boys billeted in a three-star hotel—an eighteenth-century palace, recently renovated with Swedish capital—that the Red Army had used for fifty years as a barracks.
His C.O. said, “I want to give you some perspective. Where do you come from, Heflin?”
“All over,” Elroy said. “Las Cruces, Albuquerque, Radium Springs, Vado.”
“Imagine a Russian base in downtown Albuquerque. Farm boys in Soviet uniforms are eating lunch at Lotaburger. You’re one of them. Your side won the Cold War without firing a shot. How do you feel?”
“Cock of the walk, sir.”
“And rightly so.”
The local girls were going to dress slutty. The grunts shouldn’t get the wrong idea. To the grunts, the outfits meant, Come take me for a spin. To the girls, they meant, This is how a real European dresses, right? So hands off. You’re only here for eight months. The Latvian girls want to get married just like anybody.
That sounded all right to Elroy. He figured he was the marrying kind. And within a couple of months he had a steady girlfriend. It was so easy. Not like at home. He was drinking with some of the boys in the Old City, at a café on a cobblestoned street just wide enough for a fat horse. And the waitress was nice to him. She wanted to practice her English.
In bed she asked him, “How come you like my ear so much?”
It tasted funny. She didn’t expend much effort in washing it. He had a little bit of the [REDACTED] right here in his mouth. It tasted of sweat, sebum, and lemon-flower perfume. 

“Twenty years ago,” he said, “they would have sent me here to rape you and burn down your house.”
“Silly,” she said, turning the pages of a travel magazine. “We didn’t have a house.”
He awoke in her one-room apartment to find her polishing his shoes with her spit and an old sock. Several times she offered to wash his clothes, but he couldn’t bear to take her up on it. He had done his own laundry and cooked his own meals, except in the service, since he was eleven years old.
Dank wind, then sleet. He bought two umbrellas for them. They walked through the Art Nouveau district, and she pointed to the tortured stone faces in the cornice of the law school. It was a Sunday. They happened upon Mass in a Catholic church, and for a nasty joke they both took Communion, in spite of the sport of the night before. He did not know what the priest was saying, except that, for the most part, he did know. Mass was common everywhere. He looked up at the bats hanging from the high timbers and spoke with the God of the place. He asked to meet her parents, but they were dead.
Her name was Evija.
He wanted to suggest that she go more conservative with the makeup; however, he respected other cultures. Before the deployment ended, he’d got her knocked up. He wanted to get married, but she didn’t just yet. And somehow, through a chain of decisions—none of which seemed like decisions at the time but just like doing what events required—he found himself, while stationed in northern [REDACTED], sending a third of his pay to a bank in the former Soviet Union for the upkeep of a boy he got to see only about once a year. And, all the while, Evija was going out on dates with a Russian theatre fag, and writing Elroy e-mails about, Could she have his credit-card number? She wanted to take the kid on a cruise to visit [REDACTED]. He sought the advice of his new C.O. about, Was it wise, because what if somebody intercepted the message and got his credit-card number?
His C.O. said, “Private Heflin, a fucking cruise?”
He e-mailed her that he wouldn’t pay for the cruise, and then he didn’t hear from her for a few months. To force her hand, he stopped sending the money. Then, while home on leave, he got an e-mail about, Due to circumstances in her personal life, Evija was moving to 537061696e; she would not take the child; her family wouldn’t take him, either; and that left Elroy; so when would he come get the boy, Janis; and apologies for such a rush, but within the month?
The Army had promoted Elroy to corporal. He had grown stouter, more savage. His skeleton had gained its final inch. He sat before the computer in his dad’s retirement condo outside Los Alamos, eating a plum. The plum had detonated in Elroy’s teeth and spattered his shirt with juice. He did not notice. He was leaking tears—of what? Of gratitude? He wanted them to be tears of gratitude, yes. And he laughed, free and loud. To the radiant screen he said, “I’ll be damned.”
Two days later—without a clear plan as to who would look after Janis once Elroy redeployed, and with the boy’s immigration status uninvestigated, and lacking so much as an air mattress for him to sleep on—Elroy sat in his and Evija’s old haunt, a café on Stabu iela, waiting. He had the blond, small-eyed looks of the local people, and the waitress threw the menus down and shot a stream of Latvian at him. He replied with a phrase that Evija had taught him to enunciate without slurring: “I’ll need a moment to think things through, if you please.”
Evija was going to come in with the boy. Then what? Elroy didn’t know.
His post in the café wings gave him both a view of the plate-glass vestibule, where patrons entered, and cover from the prying eyes in the main dining room. If his feelings had to come out now, let them. But they didn’t need to do it on a stage. He sat still, hands folded under the table, waiting. He had not slept on any of the planes or in any of the airports, from [REDACTED] eastward, and his complexion was splotched with little rashes. His eyes were parched from airplane air. His feelings need not happen on a stage. But, if they came rocketing out of his brain stem and began to ricochet across the roof of his brain, then did it make him such a child if he wanted a woman there with him, to not look away?
He checked his watch. He had thought to bribe Evija with flowers, but whatever it was he wanted from her he couldn’t buy. Unless she offered it freely, it was worse than useless. Pointing at the menu, he ordered a glass of seltzer, and when it came he crouched behind a potted ficus, poured some of the water into his hand, and threw it on his eyes and the backs of his ears. He sat up, composed, hoping.
Every time he had gone to stay with Evija and the boy, [REDACTED] was cleaner, richer, with newer cars. The Russian stayed away when Elroy visited. Evija insisted that the Russian was a common homosexual who needed a girl to keep up the proper appearances, and that she had never kissed him on the mouth. 

She cooked potato pancakes for Elroy and the kid, who abhorred sour cream, applesauce, anything presented to him as a condiment. These are the accidental kinks of habit that become our permanent selves. Elroy, as a child, had always preferred to sleep under sheets tight enough to cramp his toes. This preference had led him to take comfort in the austerities of basic training—they break you down, they build you up again, faster, tighter—and he discovered that he had a talent for the breaking down, a talent for forgetting. And then a talent for acting on the impulse to kill.
The three of them used to eat on the balcony of her place. Evija called it “our place,” including Elroy and Janis. She spoke English around the boy when his father was present, so the boy could practice. He was too timid with his English, both parents agreed. By some private rule, he spoke it only to the two of them, and always red in the face.
In the café, Elroy was ordering a plate of chicken livers when a crone came through the vestibule, speaking in harsh tones to what seemed a trailing dog, though it was hidden from view by the low clutter of tables.
The waitress went away. The crone looked down at a photograph and cased the room. And Elroy hit the deck.
His ass was in the chair, but his hands pressed the floor, his head bent below the table. The wood floor shone with varnish. He could not quite breathe. He seemed to have seen something without knowing it yet. The way you jerk back your hand from a hot skillet before you feel the scorch. He had shot between four and seven enemy insurgents without ever meeting the thoughtless fright of the present instant.
At last, he forced himself to stand. The woman adjusted her frayed shawl, looking around. The dog behind her was Janis, struggling to pull over the threshold a roller bag made for a child much larger than himself.
Elroy said in Latvian, “Madam?” and waved her over.
Evija hadn’t come. She’d sent this emissary, this hag.
If it had been up to the woman and Janis, the transaction would have taken fifteen seconds. She looked at the photograph—of Janis and Elroy nearly naked at the beach in Jurmala the year before—and told the boy to go sit at the table. But he had already approached his father and was climbing into the seat next to him.
The boy told the woman in Latvian that she could leave now.
But Elroy wanted her to tell him what to do. “Don’t you have anything to give me?” he asked.
The woman admonished the boy, and the boy said, “O.K., I know.” And, when Elroy asked, the boy interpreted in a whisper that she was saying that he must not forget to take care of the papers stored in his bag.
Elroy watched the woman leave, and then felt a warm thing on the top of his leg. It was the boy’s left hand. With the other hand, the boy was paging through the menu, as he looked at the pictures of the food. Elroy cancelled the livers and they left without eating.
They took a bus to the airport. He strapped Janis into his seat on the flight to [REDACTED].
From [REDACTED] Elroy had brought a coloring book and a crayon. The boy wrapped his fingers around the crayon just so, while Elroy schooled him on how to press lightly so as to conserve wax. And yet, within moments, the crayon snapped in the boy’s fist. And the boy glanced up with fear in his shaking mouth, as though he was about to be whipped.
In [REDACTED], fresh off the plane, Elroy took the boy to a men’s room stall and stuffed his coat pocket with money.
“I didn’t mean to break the crayon,” Janis said. “I’m sorry.”
“Where do you keep my watch?” Elroy drilled, resealing the worn tape that patched the boy’s coat. Elroy needed a moment to think things through. He needed ten minutes, fifteen. He would have to buy a book about how to parent. He would have to draw up a grocery list, like cereal, health insurance, allergy medication. The boy was allergic, and the condo was covered everywhere with the fur of Elroy’s father’s dog. Elroy needed a moment offstage, without the boy watching, so that later he could give the impression that he knew what the fuck he was doing. He needed a pad of paper and a pencil.
“I keep the watch in my pants pocket,” the boy replied. “I’m sorry.”
Elroy said, “Say you’re sorry again and I’ll give you something to be sorry about.”
The boy looked up, his clothed haunches suspended in the toilet seat.
“Go ahead and cry,” Elroy said. “What time do I come to get you?”
Janis showed a thumb and index finger. He said, “Two.” 
Elroy exited the stall. He told the boy to lock it, and then heard a scuffle, and the sliding of the latch. Elroy left the men’s room, mindful to keep a moderate pace amid the mad clatter of Europeans racing toward him, overtaking him on either side. The corridor reeked of burned cooking grease. He paced away, trailing his bag and the boy’s toward Terminal 2. The dented wheels of the smaller bag infuriated him by persistently tipping the bag on its side. He dragged the heavy thing wrong side up. Then he hoisted it by its sissy bar, which would not retract. He blew five minutes just looking for a clock, all while getting farther from the bathroom where the boy was waiting. In order to think, Elroy needed to buy a pencil. He blew another ten minutes in Terminal 2 looking for a stationery store. When he found it he realized he had, for reasons hidden from himself, left all of his money with the boy. Why had he left the boy with so much money? He didn’t know. And now the cashier, who would have accepted dollars if Elroy had had any, would not let him make such a trifling purchase with a credit card. The airport intercom said something in German, like There was a kindergarten at one of the C gates. Elroy was executing a plan, evidently of his own devising, and yet he did not know its objective. His connection to [REDACTED] would begin boarding in three minutes. It was already well past two o’clock. He turned back toward the bathroom in Terminal 1, planning to get a little money from the boy, buy the pencil, buy some paper, sit a moment, think, go back again, fetch the boy, and make it to the gate in time for the final boarding call. He would need to draw up an agenda, like day care, catechism classes, haircut. What could he possibly have intended by leaving the boy with all of his cash? The intercom said something in English, like In Terminal 1 there was a lost-and-found. Something in the lost-and-found. He paused, listening.
With low inexorable thumps, an escalator drew arriving passengers down beneath the floor.
He turned. Back toward the [REDACTED] gate, the bags dragging. Like a boat that comes about though its anchor is dropped. The wind takes it. Water all around. You need a while before you come to see you’re pointed the wrong way.
Janis sat in a little room, an office someplace in the airport. Three kindly Germans surrounded him, their voices soft. Hot chocolate on the desk. He knew that he was in [REDACTED], so these must be Germans. And of Germans he knew exactly one thing, a saying he had heard from his mother’s actor friend in [REDACTED]: A German may appear to be a good fellow, but better to hang him.
Do not be fooled by their chocolate.
Go ahead and cry, his father had said. And Janis had let himself cry.
Everything the Germans were telling him sounded like a question, the tone coming up sort of sweet and menacing at the end. Like, “Flik flik, bok bok, ack ack ack?” He considered it best not to respond. Most of the grief he had met in life had come to him because he had talked.
[REDACTED] was in Europe. Latvia, his mother’s country, was also in Europe. He had two homes: [REDACTED] with his mother and [REDACTED] with his father, though Janis had never been there. [REDACTED] must be somewhere in between. His mother was on vacation and so was he, but “vacation” seemed the wrong word in his case because his father’s house, where he was going, also counted as his own house.
Papa will come. By suppertime. Any minute now. So Janis should save room. He wouldn’t eat any solid thing they gave him. Per Papa’s instructions, he had stayed in the bathroom stall until the little hand of his father’s watch had reached the two. Then he had waited a little while longer. Then he had stuffed the watch into his pants and gone back to the place where they had got off the plane. And waited. Papa was not there. So Janis had missed some aspect of their scheme. However, the coming of supper was an unchangeable law that neither he nor his father could get around even if they had wanted to. Papa would have to come by suppertime. Things were very bad, but supper would make them all right again.
Janis longed for the coloring book. His father had taken it back and put it in his bag. The book was the sort without captions and, in this respect, was excellent. He could not quite read yet, and disliked feeling that he was missing out on something. The book appeared to tell of a boy who feeds and tames a wild animal and is then rewarded with the animal’s friendship. The book had no title, so Janis could come up with one of his own.
He took a sip of the hot chocolate while the Germans conferred. He didn’t want to cry anymore, but he was allowed. It was one of his father’s instructions that he was allowed to cry.
Two hours later, Elroy landed in [REDACTED]. He deplaned, walked to the perimeter of the airport, and boarded a bus that drove on the wrong side. He had met another of the world wonders—driving on the left. You kind of don’t believe in it until you see it. Like the women he had watched float through the street in Kunduz, curtained in blue from cap to toes, a lace visor where the eyes should go. He had been warned: Keep your head down. You weren’t supposed to look. But Kunduz had been like a “Star Wars” planet. Like, How do I process this, a kid like me?
Elroy got off the bus after a couple of stops, sneaked to the back of an apartment complex, and pitched the wicked little bag into a Dumpster. Then he figured out that he could go back to the correct side of the street—see, like everything was backward; maybe you do it wrong first so you can do it right later—and, yes, another bus came and returned him to the airport.
[REDACTED], Terminal 5. A bright, oblong construction of glass and steel between asphalt runways. Ticketing. Bag check. A placard at security expressly forbade, among other items, crossbows, machetes, pliers, firearms, lighters shaped like firearms, harpoons, and catapults.
His mind was a seething hash.
He surrendered what he had to the conveyor belt and the screening cavern, and stepped through the metal detector, shoulders low, breathing deep. But the machine flunked him, cheeping, and a jowly attendant led him to secondary screening—asking, Did he have a pacemaker, a cobalt hip, a plate in his head?—and pointed him to the glass booth of a trace-detection portal.
Elroy breathed deep. Sometimes you went the wrong way to go the right way again. Like once, in the street of a vacant neighborhood in Kunduz, he saw a mound in the earth where the dirt lay neatly disarranged, and he got on his knees and blew on it, and he saw the pressure plate, and he stood up fast. And, before he knew it, he’d said, “Fuck it,” and kicked the thing. Yet it didn’t blow. Like God was saying, “I want you to live, little shit.” And for a whole day Elroy feared nothing.
From all directions, jets in the portal walls spat air at him while the machine sniffed the chamber for cocaine, PCP, smack, methamphetamine; also for TNT, C-4, and Semtex.
A green light flashed, and the portal opened in front. A new attendant led him to a backscatter X-ray. He stood before a wall, hands raised, palms out, while a raster of radiation scanned the length of him. At the controls, a cheerless Caribbean woman with gold crowning her incisors could not determine his fault and let him go. 
In the afternoon autumn light, he sat in a file of Naugahyde chairs by the bank of windows. A color had gone out of the light this week: yellow, it seemed. All over Europe, the depleted light had been identical. And it had transported him back to an era of leaf piles, of cottonwood leaves stuck in the waistband of his underpants. Mountains heaped and demolished.
Jumbo jets faced the terminal windows like orcas nosing at the wall of an aquarium. The haze parted. The light squarely struck Elroy’s shaved face. He bathed his neck in it, raising his chin and turning. A lattice of white steel overhead.
There was a sign about the name of the airport. Blocky letters in relief against a brass background. A hamlet had stood here once, called Hitherowe, Hetherow, Hetherowfeyld. A heath with a row of houses on it. [REDACTED]. Scrub oak and gorse in sandy soil, where the kids played amid the vegetation and rubbish until Mother called them in for tea.
He boarded, took his seat, and the plane tore through the atmosphere.
A while later, the Germans were trying to get Janis to do something, but he didn’t know what. One of the men took off his own tie, and put it on the table, asking Janis a question and pointing to him. Then the man took off his jacket, too, and emptied the pockets: cigarettes, ATM receipts. Smiling, open eyes, like, See? Sort of a demonstration.
They wanted him to disrobe? He didn’t know how to prevent them. A rule from his mother went: No one gets to take your clothes off you, or take anything away from you that you have. One of the Germans put her hand on Janis’s hat, and he let her take it off, exposing his ragged hair, but he could not keep from crying. He was racked with hunger. They ought to feel awful about what they were trying to do to him. They made him stand up, and they took off his coat. Anything might happen now. She laid his coat on the table and searched his pockets. They let him watch. They found a Kit Kat wrapper. Gum. And two hundred and sixty-three U.S. dollars folded in half.
The great circle route westward over the Arctic.
Gravity pressed on the plane. Yet the pressure beneath the racing wings, together with the deflection against the flaps in the plane’s trailing edges, lifted it up, so that its passengers hovered in the air, in a vessel weighing eight hundred and thirty thousand pounds.
Elroy watched a glacier pour ice into the ocean. God crowded the world with wonders so that you wouldn’t forget what he told you to do. Elroy didn’t know if he’d forgotten or remembered.
He transferred at Boston Logan and landed in Albuquerque—the fourth landing in the same day, although it had lasted thirty hours so far. The chamisa pollen caught in his nose and broke his heart. Mucus drained from his sinuses.
He had reserved a subcompact car online, but Avis had overbooked his model, so he was given a Mustang convertible. He drove it north, with the top down, on the straightaway interstate through the valley of the Rio Grande, pointing his face straight up at the stars, which had occupied the same places over the [REDACTED]. He dared the car to veer out of its lane.
West of Santa Fe, he headed into the Jemez range, the thin air insufficient for his breathing, so that he panted, the roads utterly dark. At last he found a low adobe wall running the length of three city blocks—he was navigating by feel, almost by remembered smell, like a hound—and met a gate, at one in the morning Mountain Standard Time. He hadn’t eaten since the plane from [REDACTED], and his longing for food registered as a physical panic. His breath moved shallow and quick. His spine went rigid.
A guard sat at the gate in a lighted cabin doing a sudoku. He asked Elroy, in the rapid-fire English of native New Mexicans, whom he had come to see. 

“But I find nothing here from Sergeant Slocum that he is expecting you,” the guard said to his clipboard. The guard required a special note from the condo owner in order to ring after ten o’clock.
“Come on, man,” Elroy said. “I was here three days ago.” Finally he promised the guard twenty dollars tomorrow if he’d call his father’s line.
Sergeant Slocum wasn’t really Elroy’s father. He was Elroy’s stepfather. His ex-stepfather, properly speaking. He had let Elroy stay with him after the second divorce and sent him to St. Xavier’s to finish high school. Then the old man had retired up here. Ma had run off. Who knew where.
The gate receded into the adobe wall, and Elroy eased the convertible into the compound. Hooded lights, rock gardens, low-slung stucco homes. He walked under the vigas of the porch and knocked.
When Sergeant Slocum came to the door, he was holding a fork, a half-hearted piece of weaponry.
“Hello, sir,” Elroy said. “I hoped I would catch you awake.”
“Elroy,” the fat man said simply. He had been eating. The crumbs of a pastry littered his mustache. “Am I awake?” Sergeant Slocum said in the dim foyer. “I thought I was sleeping. These days, I feel asleep all hours. I can’t read, I can’t hear, I can’t piss . . .”
“Ain’t you glad to see me?” Elroy asked.
The Sergeant pointed his fork toward the dark behind Elroy’s back. He asked, “And where is young Janis?”
A day later, Janis was awakened where he slept, on a cot in the airport office, by a man wearing a pilot’s uniform. He introduced himself in Latvian as Kristaps, while the Germans looked on. Latvian to strangers. 556e6974656420537461746573n only to the ones you know. A system that had stood Janis in good stead before. But he had to conclude that, in [REDACTED], a stranger speaking to him in Latvian presented a special case. The pilot was trying to trick him in some way. Papa will come, eventually.
Janis went to the concourse with the pilot for some milk and an egg sandwich, and the pilot asked in Latvian, “Where is your mother or father?” Angry, as though Janis had done something wrong. 

And Janis said, blushing, in 556e6974656420537461746573n, “Can I have mustard?,” intending to spoil the wondrous thing on his plate, lest he succumb and eat it.
“Where is the person who brought you here?” the pilot demanded.
Why did it feel good to cry? For ages, Janis had wondered what was the matter with him that when he cried, which was feeling bad, it felt good somehow.
Janis took the top off the sandwich, hoping that the white of the egg would be runny, but it had set perfectly; hoping the yolk would be green and hard, but it gave easily when he poked it. His entire being cried out for food.
He needed to eat. But he also needed Papa to come. And all this was a test of some kind. Papa would come, but only if Janis kept faith and did not eat.
The pilot cursed him.
Janis gnawed at the arm of his coat. The pilot got up for coffee. Janis felt his hunger as a throb beneath his sternum and a kind of wind inside his head. He decided on the title for the coloring book. The title would be “Joe Loves Foxie, and Foxie Loves Joe Very Much.” He opened the little carton of German milk and poured it all over the food on his plate.
Around midday, they put him in a car.
They drove on an enormous road. There was a big city, with ships and cranes and railroad cars. It was so beautiful that Janis wondered whether he was in Heaven.
“I was under the evident misperception you were coming with the lad,” the Sergeant said.
“Yeah,” Elroy said listlessly.
“I misapprehended?”
“Yeah, it didn’t work out, you know?”
The Sergeant’s cowardly dog, Mavis, appeared behind the glass door that opened onto the patio. She scratched at the pane and looked in at the old man with her ears back and her eyes gaping, like, I know I can’t come in, but I’m a stupid bitch, and can I come in?
The Sergeant got up from the sofa and hobbled to the door, holding a magazine. He said, “What do I know, exactly?”
“Just, it didn’t work out. He looks like me, though. A fucking miracle, right? You expect them to follow you in the face, but then you don’t think they do, until they get to a certain age, and then you see it.”
The Sergeant slid open the door, rolled the magazine, bent, and clubbed Mavis across her eyes. The dog shrieked and ran off. The Sergeant sat back down.
Elroy went to the fridge, which was stuffed with expired Tex-Mex condiments. “What happened to my baloney?” he said.
“I ate it,” the old man said.
“No way,” Elroy said, stricken. “You did, really?”
“It’s my house. I eat the food here. I still outrank you, don’t forget. Go to the store and get yourself something.”
“Aw, man, I’d have to go all the way to White Rock.” Elroy turned to address the old man’s stocking feet, the left one wedged like a trowel: he had lost three toes in [REDACTED]. Elroy said, “You’re supposed to be my dad.”
At sunup, as the Sergeant was leaving to eat his breakfast at a diner in town, Elroy awoke on the sofa and asked, “Can’t you get something down by the lab for me to eat?”
“Tenants don’t eat free here,” the Sergeant said, clicking the leash around the jubilant dog’s neck. Wherever the Sergeant went, Mavis came along.
Elroy rummaged in his pants pockets—he had slept in his clothes—and discovered a crumpled mass of bills, which he handed drowsily to the old man.
The Sergeant picked out a piece of blue-green paper decorated with an oak tree. “What the hell is this?” he asked.
“That’s a whatchamacall. A lat. Five lats—where’d all my real money go?” Elroy said, sitting up. He thought a moment.
“Hotshot killer, over here. Without a pot to piss in. Maybe you could pawn your Bronze Star, if you can remember where you left it.”
“Would you bum me ten bucks?” Elroy asked. “Is that enough? For a pound of meat?”
Two years later, Sergeant Major Heflin was on his fourth deployment in [REDACTED], this time at Bagram Airfield, when he got an e-mail from Evija:
My dear Ellie,
I arrived home to [REDACTED] this month, where I write you in the very café on Stabu iela where we used to go for party.
Of course I miss Janis very badly and you. I tremble thinking you may have another girlfriend now. What right have I even to call you “dear” after what I have done? Or to ask you forgive me? However it seems foolish and right to ask, like you wanted to run across the canal, and I told you, “Don’t, the ice is not ready!” and you ran in any case, and you made it to the other side, still dry.
I have no right to ask you to come here and bring Janis. But this is where we belonged before. All three. I cannot stop from wishing that we could have another chance. 

