THE KNOCKING
By David Means

Upstairs, he stops for a moment, just to let the tension build, and then he begins again, softer at first, going east to west and then east again, heading toward the [REDACTED] side of the building, pausing to get his bearings, to look out at the view, to taunt me, I imagine, before going back into motion for a few minutes, setting the pace with a pendulous movement, following the delineation of the apartment walls—his the same as mine, exactly the same—and then there is another pause, and I lean back and study the ceiling and hear, far off, the sound of knocking in his kitchen, until eventually, maybe five minutes, maybe more, he comes back and begins again persistent and steady, without the usual aggression, as if he had forgotten me, set me aside, put away his desire for vengeance, offering a reprieve from the nature of his knocking. Maybe a five-minute reprieve, more or less, because it is impossible to guess how long these quiet moments will last when they open up overhead, since I know, as I wait, that the knocking will begin again, if not in the form of his tapping heel, then as some other kind of knocking: perhaps the sound of the hammer he uses to pound nails (he’s a big nail pounder; he’ll hang pictures at all hours), or the rubbery thud of his printer at work (he’s a big printer, scrolling out documents in the wee hours of the morning, at dusk, and at dawn), or the thump of his mattress hitting the slats, accompanied by the wheeze of springs (the wheeze not officially a knocking, but functioning as a kind of arabesque, a grace note to the mattress knocks that arrive after he’s done some easeful swaying in his bed).
Other sounds, too, that might be included in the knocking family accumulate in my mind this afternoon, an entire cornucopia of noises stretching back to the day I moved in, two years ago—pot/pan banging, dull plaster thud, bubbling water dribble, the claw-scratch titter that continued for a week, the incessant moaning, and the grief-filled swooning sound that arose intermittently and at first sounded human but then, in the course of a few days, took on a mechanistic, reproduced quality that made me certain it was a recording, a tape loop of some sort. He was that kind of knocker. He was willing to go beyond the call of duty to find a way to make a new noise and then to repeat it endlessly. He was the kind of knocker who would learn a fresh technique, a manner of landing his heel on the floor, of lifting his toes and letting them rattle a board, and work with a calisthenic efficiency—all bones and sinew—to transmit the sound via the uncarpeted prewar floorboards of his apartment, woody, resonant oak, solid enough to withstand the harder strikes. He not only took knocking seriously but went beyond that, to a realm of pure belief in the idea that by being persistent and knocking only for the sake of knocking—in other words, blanking me at least temporarily out of his consciousness, and in doing so forgetting the impulse (our brief meeting in the hall) for starting to knock in the first place—he could increase his level of concentration, achieve rapture, and, in turn, strengthen his ability to sustain the knocking over the long run. By casting off that original impetus (our brief hallway exchange that was not really a friendly greeting but a curt nod of heads, in which it seemed to me that we agreed to a mutual distaste for each other while, at the same time, our stories—in one of those fleeting, [REDACTED]-style flashes—were conveyed), he could hit the floor with his heels while I, below, heard him and knew that he was doing so driven by a faith that went beyond retribution. (I’d tried, long ago, to return the knocks, pounding the ceiling with a broom handle, getting up on a stepladder to follow the footfalls, only to find that, as the one below, I was unable to fend off the knocking; because to knock up is not the same as to knock down, and any sound that resides at the feet most certainly isn’t the same as a sound that comes down upon the head.) 

Theoretically, there is still debate about the nature of the knock in relation to the listener, of course, and one can easily postulate that a knock not heard is not a knock but, rather, a sound, pure and simple, and that to qualify as an official knock the sound not only must be heard but also must arrive in the ears with an annoying quality. To be sure, there are gentle knocks, sweet knocks, but those usually fall into the category of soft rappings: the late-night arrival, the lover-to-lover, message-through-the-wall (often adulterous) tap; the old-school, salesman-at-the-door, Fuller Brush five-knuckle rap—a deep anachronism now, replaced long ago by the doorbell, which, in turn, has been replaced by the telephone ring. To the recipient of the knock, all theories, no matter how plausible or how sensible, are destroyed by the sound itself. Imaginative capacities gather around the knock. A hammer against a nail, sharp and determined, goes on a beat too long, pounding and pounding throughout an entire evening, with metronomic precision. The rounded edge of a sap—lead in leather—is slapped against the floorboards overhead, making a blunt rubbery thud with a leathery overtone. A sharp metallic tap, not too loud and not too soft, comes out from under the casual noise of a summer afternoon—the roar of traffic on Fifth combined with high-heeled taps, taxi horns, and the murmur of voices—with a hauntingly pristine quality, like the tin tip of a walking stick. A sweeping sound stretches from one side of the head to the other, arriving one afternoon . . . Again, many of these knockings come late in the day, when he knows, because he does know, that I’m in my deepest state of reverie, trying to ponder—what else can one do!—the nature of my sadness in relation to my past actions, throwing out, silently, wordlessly, my theorems: Love is a blank senseless vibration that, when picked up by another soul, begins to form something that feels eternal (like our marriage) and then tapers and thins and becomes wispy, barely audible (the penultimate days in the house by the [REDACTED]), and then is, finally, nothing but air unable to move anything (the deep persistent silence of loss; Mary gone, kids gone).
One afternoon—as I was remembering how it felt to slide my hand along Mary’s hips, or the way her skin smoothed out around her belly and grew bone hard and then softer and flatter until I got to the even softer wetness—the sweeping sound began, not a knocking but simply the sound of a man upstairs straightening his apartment in the middle of a hot [REDACTED] afternoon—a clean, easy sound at first. Nothing to it—no knocking—until my attention was drawn away from reverie (Mary) and I detected within the sound a hardness, a pressing nature, and became aware, over the course of what seemed to be an hour, that the sound remained just above my head, with a steadiness that went beyond the nature of the task. There was keen deliberateness. He was going to sweep his way through the floor, the joists and plaster. At some point the sweet, even anachronistic, broom swish switched over to knock mode; not so much the actual sound but, rather, the intent behind the gesture had gone from the act of sweeping to the sound that the act made, so that it was clear to me below that what had started out as a normal cleaning routine had, perhaps in response to my moaning and occasional shouts up at the ceiling between sweeps, shifted to knocking. In other words, at some point his desire to sweep had morphed into a desire to knock.
Another example: One relatively quiet afternoon—just the dull murmur of televisions going on all sides, the occasional voice in the air shaft—my friend upstairs decided to hang a picture of some kind, or to pound a nail for some other reason (is there another reason?), and he began with the occasional tap, teasingly working the point of the nail into the plaster. It was a tidy sound, with something pleasant in it. The hammerhead against the nail. Force being transferred to the tapered point, easing into the plaster, finding the gap where the plaster opens into void. I listened with pleasure. Leaning back in my chair, I thought, Go on, old boy! Pound away! Get that nail in there! Don’t pause too long or you’ll lose your sense of the task! Get to work! Find some semblance of rhythm in the strikes! Hold the hammer low and let it swing lightly to avoid pressure on the inside of the wrist! Get into that pure state if you can, and let the head fall in accordance with the demands of the nail itself ! If need be, go back in your mind to those long afternoons in the house in Westchester, when you were neatly tied up in your matrimonial vows and waiting to see what the next project might bring in the way of quietude: some afternoon, cutting into a board, or feeling your way around a broken water valve in a dark recess. Let the pounding become one with your own sense of needing to get something done, physically, to see some effort transposed from thumb to forefinger, so to speak, smoothing down freshly poured concrete with a trowel, feeling the gelatinous shift of substance. Whatever it is, I thought, or maybe even shouted—because I was prone to instruct him when necessary and might have shouted up at the ceiling—whatever it is you’re doing, get it done swiftly and with clean strokes and avoid catching yourself up in the task itself. Go to it, old boy! I’m sure I said. Get into it! Pound away! The age of the handy task is waning. We’re in the twilight of the age of knocking, I’m sure I said. The great tradition is on its way out, I know I said, I think, because he was going full bore with a terrifying, frenetic efficiency, pinpointing the sound with a steady, ecstatic perfection. He was the greatest of all knockers. He was a brilliant virtuosic master of the form, landing thuds in what seemed an intuitively perfect way. No intent, no human intent of any kind, could find such a precise way to make the sound he made. He was at the top of his form. Each knock had my name on it! Each knock spoke directly to me! His was the work of a man on the edge of madness. A man who had lost just about everything, and was channelling all his abilities into his knocking. He was seeking the kind of clarity you could get only by bothering another soul, down below (never up) in his own abode, hunkering down on a hot summer afternoon on the great insular isle of the Manhattoes, trying to put the pain of a lost marriage behind him (Mary!), along with fond memories of a time when the desire he felt for his wife was equally matched by her desire for him (presumably); when there had been a great exchange of love between two souls, or at least what seemed to be, and he had gone about his days, puttering, fixing things, knocking about in a much less artistic manner, trying the best he could to keep the house in shape. 
