A DEATH IN KITCHAWANK
By T. Coraghessan Boyle
Saturday, just after two, the sun a hot compress on her shoulders and scalp, the shrieks and catcalls of the children as they splash in the shallows a kind of symphony of the usual. Behind her, the sharp thwock of the dense black rubber ball as it rockets from the paddle and slaps the wall, regular as a heartbeat till one of the men miscalculates and it freezes in cardiac arrest on the tail of a stifled curse. One beat, two, and here it comes again: thwock. She’s thinking that she should have brought her straw hat with her to the beach—she wouldn’t want a thin red line of sunburn etched into the parting of her hair—but she’ll worry about that later, or maybe not at all. She hasn’t worn her hat in a week or more now—she hates hats, hats are a thing of her mother’s day—and her tan is deep, even at her hairline. She’s wearing a pair of oversized sunglasses, new from the drugstore yesterday, and last year’s black one-piece, which is maybe a little tight around the hips and waist, but so what? She’s not on display here. This is her beach, her community, her lake. These are her friends and neighbors gathered in their beach chairs and sprawled across their fluffed-up towels and beach blankets, with their paperbacks and newspapers and Hebrew National wieners. This is the peace at the center of life. This, this Saturday in July, as her mind runs free and her only worry is to shift the straps on her shoulders and gloss her lips to keep them from drying out.
In the house, which she could see if she craned her neck to look back past the concession stand and the paddleball courts and the big open grassy field, where teen-age couples are strolling hand in hand, is the refrigerator, new three years ago and as cluttered as if it had been there a century. In its cool dark depths are the steaks in a covered dish of honey-ginger marinade, the potato salad and coleslaw she put up after breakfast, and the Rose’s lime juice and vodka for the gimlets. All is well. And so what if the warm shifting sand beneath her feet has to be trucked in every other year at the expense of the Kitchawank Colony Association, its hundreds of billions of individual grains disappearing into the high grass, washing into the lake, adhering to toes and arches and tanned sinewy ankles only to wind up on bathroom tiles and beneath the kitchen sink? It’s as essential as air, as the water itself: how could you have a beach without it?
When she next opens her eyes it’s to the quick cold shock of Susan, her youngest, snuggling in beside her, everything wet suddenly, as if a whole basket of fish had been upended in her lap. She feels the bunched knees poking at her, the shuddering rib cage and chattering teeth, hears her own voice jump up: “Get off, honey, you’re all wet!” And Susan, freckled, stick-limbed, ten years old, snuggling tighter. “I’m cold, Mommy.” She reaches behind her for the beach bag and the towel, and then she’s wrapping her daughter and holding her close till the shivering stops and Susan springs loose to chase half a dozen other kids to the concession stand. She lifts her sunglasses for a moment to watch her go, and here are the Sollovays, the Greens, the Goldsteins, settling in around her in a wash of greeting and banter and sheer high spirits. Marsha Goldstein, her legs silken and her lips fluttering around her smile, offers a cigarette, but she prefers her own and they both light up and let the tobacco lift them, until in unison, as if they’d rehearsed it, they throw back their heads and exhale in long twin plumes of blue. “What time did you want us tonight?” Marsha asks. “Five-ish?”
“Yes,” she says, “yes, that’ll be perfect,” and she glances over her shoulder, past the courts and the chain-link fence and the screen of trees to where her house sits tranquilly on its own little rise—the only house, of the two hundred or more in the Colony, that looks directly onto the lake, a fact of which she tries not to be too sinfully proud. And it’s funny, because with the way the light comes off the lake and the big picture window stands in shadow she can see into her own kitchen and the table there, already set for dinner, the clock on the yellow wall, time ticking by, and it’s almost as if she were in two places at once.
[Forgive me for stepping in here but I do want to get this right—the fact is I may have been there that day. The threads of the past are so snarled that, thirty-five years on, I’ve lost the ability to separate them with any clarity. But if I was there I would have been on the paddleball court, playing in a fiercely competitive and very physical foursome with Miriam’s husband, Sid, and her two sons—Alan, who was twenty-six, and [REDACTED], my best friend, who was then twenty-two, like me. And I would have entered the next scene, too, the dinner scene, preceded by cocktails and the long unwinding of a muggy Saturday afternoon, the corded muscles of my legs gone limp in the afterglow of exercise and the slow seep of alcohol.]
She’s got both fans going, the one at the kitchen window and the big lazy ceiling fan revolving in a slow slippage of optical illusion over the table, but she’s still dripping. Marsha’s with her, their drinks perspiring on the counter while they stand elbow to elbow at the cutting board, slicing long squared-off strips of carrot and wafer-thin slivers of Vidalia onion for the salad, dicing cucumbers and halving cherry tomatoes still warm from the garden, Marsha, who was the maid of honor at her wedding just as she was the maid of honor when Marsha married David in a time when there were only the four of them. Now the boys are in their twenties, Susan’s ten, and Marsha’s daughter, Seldy, is sixteen, or, no, seventeen.
From the living room comes the sound of the men, their voices rich and pleased as they call down the questions of the day, revile Nixon, trade quips with the boys. Les has begun to wear his hair long and dress in bell-bottoms and spangled shirts, in confraternity with his friend T., who looks so satisfied he could be flying across the room on his own magic-carpet ride. She’s had her moments of worry—or not worry, really, just concern—over whether the boys have been experimenting with tea or grass or whatever they call it these days, but she’s never said anything. And won’t. She doesn’t want to harp.
They’re just sitting down to dinner—to the artichokes, one per plate, the grill out on the deck sending up smoke under the steaks—when Seldy, in a yellow sundress that shows off the figure she’s been growing into over the past year, drifts into the room, late as usual. Her mother says, “It’s about time,” and her father makes a quip about how she must’ve got lost on the gruelling four-minute drive from their house, but Sid and the three boys are dumbstruck for one thunderous instant. This is the face of beauty, and though they’re all family here, though Seldy’s like a daughter to Sid and a sister to the boys—Miriam’s boys, anyway—none of that matters. Sid’s the first to break the spell, his voice rising to emphasize the joke: “Well, Jesus Christ, we thought we were going to wilt away and starve waiting for you.” And then the boys are falling all over themselves to wave and grin and ante up the wit, and Seldy, flushing, slides into the empty seat between Alan and Les, letting the steam from the artichoke rise gently about her face and the long trailing ends of her hair slip from her shoulders to sway gracefully over her plate.
It is then, just as Sid rises to check on the steaks (nobody here wants anything but rare and rarer, and he’d be offended if they did), that the first eruption of thunder rolls across the lake to shake the house and rattle the ice cubes in the drinks that Miriam has just freshened. The sky goes instantly dark, as if a shade had been drawn over the day. She’s wondering if she should go and rummage through the kitchen drawer for the candles left over from Hanukkah when the storm chases a cool breeze through the screens, and Marsha waves her napkin in front of her face, letting out a sigh of relief. “Thank God,” she says. “Oh, yes, bring it on.”
The first raindrops, big and slow and widely dispersed, begin to thump at the shingles, and there’s Sid, with his muscled arms and bald head, out on the deck, hustling the lid off the grill and flipping the steaks, the worn boards spotted all around him. “Better hurry, Sid!” David calls, and then it’s really coming down, the original deluge, and this is funny, deeply, infectiously funny—Sid flipping steaks and wet through in an instant—because there’s no harm done, no harm at all. They’ll have candles, they’ll eat, and the evening, with its rising fertile smell of grass and the earth at the edge of the woods, will settle in around them, as cool and sweet as if the whole neighborhood were air-conditioned.
[I see I’ve written myself into the scene after all, a refugee from my own fractured family, at peace in the moment. Fair enough. But peace neither lasts nor suffices, and the fact was that [REDACTED] and I pursued the available pharmacopoeia far more assiduously than Miriam could ever have imagined. We were stoned at that very moment, I’m sure of it, and not on anything as innocuous as marijuana—stoned, and feeling blessed. Feeling, in the midst of all that radiant love and tranquillity, that we were getting away with something.]
Time jumps and jumps again, the maples struck with color, the lake giving up a thin sheet of wrinkled ice along the shore, and then there’s the paucity of winter with its skeletal trees and the dead fringe of reeds stuck like an old man’s beard in the gray jaws of the ice. The months spin out until the pointer stops on a day in March, gray as death, Susan working against the chill in the unheated basement with the girls from the Explorers’ Club at school, building a canoe from a kit shipped in all the way from [REDACTED], while Miriam tiptoes around upstairs, arranging warm-from-the-oven oatmeal cookies on a platter and pouring hot cocoa from the thermos into six porcelain teacups, each with its own marshmallow afloat in the center like a white spongy island.
When she opens the basement door, there’s an overpowering smell of epoxy and the distilled vinegar that Sid got for cleanup, and she worries about that, about the fumes, but the girls seem oblivious. They cluster around her in a greedy, jostling pack, hands snatching at the cookies and the too-hot cups. Susan already has three cookies clenched in her hand, privilege of the house, as she stabs her tongue at the marshmallow in her cup, a mustache of chocolate sketching itself in above her upper lip.
“Shouldn’t you girls have some ventilation in here?” Miriam says, just to hear herself, but they’re fine, they assure her, and it’s going great, it really is.
The canoe, lying overturned on a pair of sawhorses, has been a long winter’s project, Sid doing the lion’s share of the work on weekends, though the girls have been fairly diligent about the handsanding, the cutting and fitting of the fibreglass cloth, and the slow smoothing of the epoxy over it. It’s just that they’re at an age when gathering for any purpose outside of school is a lark, and they can’t help frittering away their time gossiping, spinning records, dancing to the latest beat or craze or whatever it is, their thin arms flailing, hair in motion, legs going like pogo sticks. They make fast work of the cookies and chocolate. And now, sated, they watch her warily, wondering why she’s lingering when it’s clear that her motherly duties have been dispensed with, and so she gathers up the cups, sets them on the tray, and starts back up the stairs.
Thanks to Sid, who is a father like no other, despite the fact that he has to drag himself home every night after a stifling commute and the kind of hard physical labor on one job site after another that would prostrate a man half his age, the canoe is ready for its maiden voyage by the time the ice shrinks back from the shore and the sun makes its first evanescent return. Miriam sits stiffly on the bench by the playground, Marsha beside her, while the girls divide themselves democratically into two groups of three, roll up their jeans in the icy shallows, and see the first group off in a mad frantic windmilling of forearms and paddles. “Be careful, now!” she calls, and she’s pleased to see that her daughter has been gracious or, at least, patient enough to wait her turn in the second group. As Susan leans forward to push the canoe off, her ankles chapped with the cold, her face long and grave and bursting with expectation, it’s too much for Miriam, and she has to look away to where the paddles flash in the pale depleted sunlight and the canoe cuts back and forth across the black surface like the blades of her pinking shears.
Marsha, who has come to lend moral support, lights a second cigarette off the end of her first and flicks the still smoldering butt into the dun grass at their feet, exhaling with a long complicated sigh. “Too cute by half,” she says.
Miriam’s on her feet—she wants to let go but just can’t help herself—listening to her own voice skitter over the water and ricochet back again: “Don’t get too far out! Girls! Girls?”
“I heard from Seldy last night,” Marsha’s saying as Miriam eases back down on the bench. Seldy’s at Stony Brook. A junior. On scholarship and majoring in math, she’s that smart.
“And how is she?”
A pause. The canoe, far out now—halfway to the other shore and its dense dead accumulation of shoulder-high weeds—makes a wobbly, long-stemmed turn and starts back, the girls paddling in unison, finally getting it. “Terrible. Worse than”—Marsha’s voice, wadded with grief and anger, chokes in her throat—“I don’t know, anything.”
“What? What is it? She isn’t—”
“She’s dropping out.”
Miriam is so surprised she can’t help repeating the phrase, twisting it with the inflection of disbelief. “She’s dropping out?” Caught up in the moment, she doesn’t stop to consider that both of her own sons dropped out in their time, too.
“It’s that boy.”
“What boy?”
“You know, the one from high school that went to the community college for all of half a semester—Richie?”
For a moment, Miriam’s confused, the name caught on her lips like an invocation—Richie, Richie?—and then suddenly she can picture him, tall and rangy in a swimsuit so tight you could see every crease and fold, the washboard stomach, hair that fell across his face like a raven’s wing, Richie Spano, the wise guy, the joker, with his braying laugh and the look on his face when you caught him out that said, I am so far above this.
“You’re kidding.”
“I wish.”
And here’s the canoe, scraping at the sand that will have to be replaced again this spring or they’ll all be hip-deep in mud, and Susan now trading places with the girl in back, the power position, raising her paddle high as if it were the honed glistening spear of a warrior out for conquest. 

A puff of smoke. A long mournful inhalation and Marsha won’t look her in the eye. “They’re going to get a place in the Village, she says. Live free. Do their thing.”
The canoe, Miriam sees, is stuck there under the weight of the girls, and she has to restrain herself from interfering until finally Susan digs her paddle into the bottom to push them off and the canoe rides free in a shimmer of light.
“Or some such crap,” Marsha says.
[I was already gone by then, trying to redeem myself in grad school, and Les was in [REDACTED], managing the first Cajun-style restaurant to appear there, but I knew Richie Spano from the time Les and I had rented a house in the Colony three years earlier. There was a lot of traffic in that house—friends, musicians, druggies, friends of friends, friends of druggies—and Richie drifted in from time to time. He was quick on his feet, cocky, borderline obnoxious, with a mean streak that was something sick. One night, apropos of nothing, he plucked the darts out of the board on the kitchen wall and nailed my girlfriend’s cat with one of them—which stuck there in the stripe of fur along its spine, quivering like a banderilla, until the cat vanished and bled all over the carpet in the back room and cost thirty-five dollars to repair at the vet’s, money I paid out of my own pocket because Richie Spano wasn’t about to pay anybody anything.]
Miriam is there at the window one soft mist-hung morning in the spring of a year when the canoe has been all but forgotten, chained to a rail on a grassy strand off to the far side of the beach in a mismatched tumble of upended boats, the girls on to other pursuits now, most of them boyrelated. Susan is seventeen, too nervous by half over her college applications, her A.P. courses, the way Mr. Honer presses her to practice though she’s only third violin and Mr. Davies rides roughshod over the Thespian Club, but her room is decorated with posters of shirtless, long-haired boys posing with guitars in their hands.
Miriam’s sipping a cup of tea while her cigarette levitates smoke at her elbow, caught in a recollection of her own seventeen-year-old self, when she first came up from Stelton for the summer to stay with her cousins in a bungalow not three city blocks from where she’s sitting now. No one would have described her as shy back then, and when she went to the beach with her cousin Molly the first afternoon and saw a group of boys sweating over a little black ball on the paddleball court she went right up to them, not five feet away, and watched as they leaped and grimaced and slammed at the ball with all the raw frustrated adolescent power boiling up out of them, until they began to falter, to hit out, to lose the rhythm of the game—and it was no secret why. It was because she was there, with her pretty, dark features, which everyone said were just like Rita Hayworth’s, with her nails freshly done and a white towel slung insouciantly over one shoulder, dressed in the swimsuit she’d spent the better part of an hour admiring in the full-length mirror at Genung’s before she said yes and counted out the money at the cash register. There were four boys playing and half a dozen others sprawled on the grass at the edge of the court, but the one who caught her eye—the tall one, with slicked-back dirty-blond hair, shrinking T-shirt, and black high-top basketball shoes that he wore without socks—was Sid.
She shifts in her seat, lifts the cigarette to her lips to consolidate the recollection, but the cigarette is dead. And the tea—the tea’s gone cold. She’s about to push herself up and light the gas under the kettle when a movement on the ball field catches her eye. There’s someone out there—two people, a boy and a girl—and that strikes her as odd, because it’s a school day and though it’s officially spring the leaves of the trees are still wound tight in the grip of their buds and it’s cold, especially with the way the mist is pushing in off the lake. Hardly beach weather.
She’s already put up dinner—a pot roast simmering in the Crock-Pot that Les gave her for her birthday last year—and she’s been through the newspaper twice. Is she bored? Lonely? In need of stimulation? She supposes so. She’s been spending an awful lot of time sitting at the window lately, talking on the telephone or just dreaming, and she’s been putting on weight, too. But what are they doing out there?
In the next moment she’s in the front hall, shrugging into her faded blue parka, and then she’s out in the air, heading down the path to where her property ends and the single-lane gravel road loops through the high chain-link gate and peters out in the beach area. She veers left, onto the grass of the outfield, and feels it wet on the worn suède moccasins she slipped on at the door. When she gets closer—when she’s halfway to the two figures bent over what looks to be a big gray-green stone protruding from the grass—she recognizes Seldy. Seldy, in bell-bottom jeans and a serape and some sort of leather cowboy hat pulled down so far it masks her eyes. And who’s that with her? Richie. Richie, looking as if he were dressed for Halloween, with his long hair, his tie-dyed shirt, and a ragged cloth overcoat he might have dug out of the pile at the Salvation Army.
She’s not thinking, really—and the way she’s dressed and with her hair uncombed and no makeup on she’s not especially in the mood to see anybody at the moment—but she’s here now and that thing on the ground, she sees, is no rock. It’s moving. And the boy—Richie—is stabbing at it with a fallen branch. In the very instant she opens her mouth to say “Hi,” startling them both, she realizes what it is: a turtle. One of the big ridge-backed turtles that come up out of the lake to lay their eggs on the apron of sand at the edge of the ball field.
Seldy tries for a smile and only partly succeeds. Richie ignores her.
“Are you up visiting?” she hears herself say, even as Richie forces the stick into the animal’s mouth and the jaws clamp down with an audible crack.
“See that?” he says. “One of these things can take your hand off if you’re not careful.”
Very softly, as if afraid to raise her voice, Seldy says, “Yes,” but that’s puzzling, because Marsha didn’t breathe a word about a visit, and it takes a moment for Miriam to realize that they must be staying with Richie’s parents on the other side of the lake—or not even on the lake, really, but in a development off Amazon Road. And then a scenario from a year ago presents itself, a dinner party she was giving for a new couple, the Abramsons—he’s a doctor in the city—and how Seldy, up for the weekend, had sat rigidly between her parents and barely said a word all night. Except to be negative. At one point, early on, before the Abramsons and the others arrived, Miriam had been rearranging the flowers in the big cut-glass vase she’d inherited from her mother, soliciting Marsha’s opinion, just chattering, that was all, when Seldy, her face sour and her lips drawn down, snapped at her out of nowhere. “Jesus, Miriam, it’s only the Colony, only the sticks,” she said, and her voice was like a saw cutting the house in two. “You’d think you were Mrs. Dalloway or something.”
It’s cold—raw—and she tightens the parka around her. She’s about to say something inane like “That’s nice,” when Richie jerks the branch from the turtle’s mouth and brings it down hard on the slick gleaming carapace, not once but twice. He’s lifting it again, lifting it high, when she steps forward and takes hold of the end of it so quickly she surprises herself. “What are you doing?” she demands, her voice gone harsh in her throat.
To his credit, he doesn’t resist, and the stick is hers now, to drop in the grass at her feet while the turtle, hissing, thrashes its head back and forth as if it can’t pinpoint the source of the threat. “Thing doesn’t deserve to live,” he says, and his eyes are unfocussed, fully dilated, as if he were dreaming on his feet. “They’re just trash anyway. They kill fish, ducks even. They—”
“No,” she says, cutting him off, “no. They belong here. They have a right to live just like everything else.” She wants to go on, wound up all of a sudden, but he’s already turned his back on her, stalking across the grass in his high-heeled boots—purple, purple boots—and she’s left there with Seldy. Who has nothing to say. Her best friend’s daughter, a girl she’s known since she was in the cradle, and she has nothing to say. Miriam wants to invite her up to the house for tea, a bagel, a good long chat about dropping out, about fashion, and respect for nature, and life in the Village—freaks, they call themselves freaks—but she finds, in that moment, that she has nothing to say, either.
[I remember stopping by one year during spring break and finding Miriam in a lawn chair out on the fringe of the ball field, wrapped in an old sleeping bag, keeping watch over a pair of nesting turtles while a pickup game went on behind her. I must have spent an hour crouched there beside her, catching up on things, as the turtles patiently extruded their eggs, as if time had gone back a millennium and there were no lawnmowers or automobiles or boys with sticks and rocks and baseball bats poised to annihilate them. And where was Sid? Working. Always working. He’d had his reverses on the stock market and elsewhere, a tough year, but he was still a member of the tin-knockers’ union and always had work. As far as I could tell, he didn’t even know turtles existed.]
And it’s another day, a year further on, Susan at Rutgers and loving it, or so she says on the odd nights when she bothers to call, and Miriam has just got off the phone with her cousin Molly, who lives in [REDACTED] now and whose youngest—Mark, just twenty-four—has had some sort of nervous breakdown. Or worse. He’s been in treatment since he was a teen-ager, and nobody wants to call it schizophrenia, because you don’t come back from that. They say that it runs in families, and, when Miriam comes to think of it, Molly’s father was no mental paragon, scared of his own face in the mirror, hearing voices, talking nonsense half the time. She just thanks her lucky stars her own children turned out normal, though sometimes she wonders about Les, out there on the West Coast, unmarried at thirty and running with a fast crowd, restaurant people, bar people, people who use drugs and don’t go to bed till the sun rises.
She pushes herself up from the table, aching in her joints—and there’s a sharp pain in the calf of her left leg, a kind of thrilling or buzzing that goes away almost as soon as she puts a name to it. From the window she can see the wall of the paddleball courts, which are empty at this hour on a weekday, and beyond them Rose Shapiro—eighty and stooped—pacing the beach as if she were making her way across the steppes of [REDACTED] like poor Dr. Zhivago, and the sight only depresses her the more. You marry, have children, cook, clean, get sick, get old, pace the beach till you can’t even remember who you are. That’s life. That’s what it is.
It is then that she thinks of the canoe. Susan had it out last summer once or twice, but aside from that it has just sat there inert for years. She’s suddenly seized with the idea of it, its smooth white skin pressed to the belly of the water, clouds scudding by overhead, the release of it, gliding, just gliding. She makes herself a sandwich at the kitchen counter, pours juice into the thermos, selects a paperback from the shelf in the den, and goes out into the day and the sunlight, which flares with sudden brilliance, feeling as if she were off on an adventure.
She has some trouble with the combination lock—it’s rusty, that’s all—and then, once she’s got the chain free and tries to flip the boat over, she finds it’s unaccountably heavy. There’s no one to see her, really, aside from Mrs. Shapiro, who barely glances up from her own shoelaces, but still she feels embarrassed to think that she can’t even flip over a canoe, a thing she must have done a hundred times when she was a girl. Is she really that old and weak? She sucks in her breath and gives it another try, like one of those puffed-up 527573736961n weight lifters in the Olympics on TV, and there it is, like a miracle, right side up and thumping reverberantly to the ground. The sound echoes out over the water and comes back again, thrilling with the chatter of birds and the soughing of the breeze in the branches overhead. It’s April. She’s fifty-eight years old. And her feet, her bare feet, are in the water now, the canoe hovering before her and threatening to tip first one way and then the other until all at once she’s firmly planted in the seat and the paddle is working in her sure tight grip and the shore retreats behind her.
It’s a joy. A lark. And almost immediately she finds her rhythm, the motion—dip and rise and dip again—coming back to her as if it were ingrained in her muscle memory, and maybe it is, though it’s been more years than she can count. She feels the sun on her face and when she shifts position it wraps itself across her shoulders like an electric blanket, warming and gentle. By the time she thinks to look back to where her house sits reduced on the horizon, she’s nearly to the far side of the lake. What she’s thinking is that she should do this more often—get out, enjoy life, breathe the air—and she makes a promise to herself that, starting tomorrow, she will. It’s not even noon yet when she lays the paddle athwart the gunwales and unwraps her sandwich, pastrami on rye, just letting the boat drift, and isn’t this the best pastrami on rye she’s ever had? The canoe rocks. She lies back, for just a moment, and closes her eyes. 
When she wakes, she can’t imagine where she is, despite the evidence all around her. It takes her a minute to come fully to herself. The sun is gone, the clouds bleeding across the sky. And the wind is stronger now, damper, sweeping out of the south with a scent of rain. She’s not wearing her watch—she left it at home for fear of getting it wet—and that further disorients her, as if knowing the time would put everything back in its place. Nothing for it but to paddle, but which way? She can’t see the shore from here, not through the low-bellied clouds. As well as she can figure, the canoe must have been carried all the way down the lake while she dozed. All right. She’ll just orient herself, that’s all. She swivels around, scanning both shores till she finds a fixed point, the pale white tower of the seminary all the way up on Stony Street emerging suddenly from the clouds and the canopy of the distant trees, which means she has to go in . . . that direction, there, behind her now. She feels the relief wash over her—at least she knows where she is—until she reaches for the paddle, or the place where the paddle was, and finds it gone.
[This became a family legend, trotted out at dinner parties over the years, the story of how Miriam used her hands to paddle the boat to the nearest point, which unfortunately lay on the far side of the lake, and how she walked a good mile and a half barefoot before she got to Kitchawank Village and the pay phone in front of the liquor store there and realized she didn’t have a cent to her name, let alone a dime. How she turned around and walked another three blocks on the cold hard unforgiving pavement till she got to Lowenstein’s Deli, and Sy Lowenstein let her use the store phone to call Sid, who was installing heating ducts in a fourplex in Mount Kisco, where, thank God, they had a phone already hooked up on the ground floor, to please come get her before she froze to death. And how Sid let out one of his arpeggiated “Jesus Christ!”s and went twenty miles over the limit all the way back and then had to take her out to Fiorvanti’s because there was no dinner on the table that night.]
It’s an autumn day in an advancing year, the trees brilliant around the lake, each leaf painted a distinctive shade and the whole blended as in a Monet, when the phone rings and she picks up to hear from Molly, all the way out in [REDACTED], that Seldy is getting married. To Richie Spano. Who, at thirty-four, is assistant manager of some sort of appliance store in Yorktown Heights and apparently making a decent living, though no one would have thought it from the way he was raised.
What goes through her mind first is a quick envious accounting—neither Alan nor Les is married yet, nor do they look to be soon, and Susan’s been so busy studying for the bar that she hasn’t had a date in months, or not that Miriam knows of, anyway—and then, as she forms the words “She hasn’t told me anything about it,” the hurt sets in. This is Marsha, her best friend all these years, maid of honor at her own wedding, and she can’t call her with the news? Yes, well, maybe they have been like strangers lately, because things are different now, everybody getting older and more stay-at-home, the Colony breaking down as people die off or move away to [REDACTED], but that doesn’t mean you can’t pick up a telephone. 

As soon as she hangs up—before it occurs to her that maybe Marsha’s ashamed to have such a son-in-law, not to mention a daughter throwing her life away—she’s dialling. What she wants to say is “Hello, how are you?” so that she can ease into the situation as gracefully as possible, but her lips betray her. “Marsha?” she says. “How come you didn’t tell me the good news?”
“Hello, Miriam, is that really you?” Marsha returns, her rasping voice as familiar as Miriam’s own. “It’s been too long, hasn’t it, what with one thing and another. But news? What news are you talking about?”
“Seldy. Getting married. Are you planning a spring wedding, then—June? Like you and David? And Sid and me?”
There’s a pause. The sound of a match striking and Marsha drawing smoke into her lungs. “No,” she breathes finally, “no, that’s not the way it is anymore.”
And then there’s the exegesis, a story stewed in its details and leaning heavily toward Richie and Richie’s feelings. Richie—he grew up Catholic, did she know that?—hates religion, just hatesit, and so does Seldy, or that’s what she claims. They don’t want a fuss. Don’t want anybody there—and it was like pulling teeth just to get them to say that she and David could stand as witnesses when they go before the justice of the peace.
There’s a pause. Silence on both ends of the line. “Well, could we at least host the reception?” Miriam puts in, feeling nothing but shame and disappointment for Marsha—and for herself, herself, too.
Very softly: “No, I don’t think so. I think the Spanos—Rich, Sr., and Carlotta, the parents?—I think they have something planned.”
She wants to shout back at her “You think?” but she goes numb all over, the phone pressed to her ear like a weight, like one of the dumbbells Alan has had in the far corner of the basement since he was in junior high. She hears herself peep and chirp back at Marsha as the conversation runs from the sorrows and sicknesses of people they know to the sad state of the Colony, how hardly anybody goes to the Association meetings anymore, how they could barely raise a crew to take the raft out of the water this fall, and then finally stalls. “Call soon,” she hears herself say.
“Yes, I will.”
“Promise?”
“Promise.”
There are half a dozen people she wants to call, she’s so wrought up, but for a long while, as the sun softens and the colors fade from the trees on the far side of the lake, she just sits there, feeling as if someone had died. What will Sid think? Sid’s always had a soft spot for Seldy, as if she were his own daughter, and he’s never liked Richie Spano, never liked what he stood for or where he came from or how he managed to get his hooks into her.
And then she’s remembering the time, years ago now, down at the lake, when she snapped awake from a sun-soaked dream to a clamor of voices raised in anger. Sid’s voice she recognized right away, a low buzz of outrage that meant he was right on the verge, but the other voice—a high querulous whine that seemed to choke on itself—she didn’t know.
It was Richie Spano’s. She turned to look over her shoulder and there he was, incandescent in the light, flailing his arms and screaming in Sid’s face. He didn’t want to wait for a court and he’d been waiting too long already, shouting it out as if he’d been gored, shouting that the whole idea of holding the court when you never lose was just bullshit, that was all. She pushed herself up from the beach chair in the moment that the two of them came at each other—and Sid, though he was slow to anger, could have torn Richie apart, and would have but for the intervention of David, who forced himself between them before the shoves could turn to blows. The next week, at the very next meeting of the Association, she raised her hand and made a motion to ban people from the beach who weren’t members of the Colony—and she named Richie Spano specifically, because whose guest was he, anyway?
[My memories of Sid are of a man secure in himself, a big man—huge for his generation, six-three and two-twenty and none of it gone to fat—who gave the impression of power held in reserve. He was quick-witted and light on his feet, as verbally wicked as we ourselves were, and if you were admitted to his inner circle—and I was, I was—he would defend you against all comers. He’d fought the Germans, done a stint as a beat cop in [REDACTED], and then come home to the house on the lake to raise his family. I remember walking into a bar with him once, an unfamiliar place, down and dirty—he must have been in his mid-sixties then—and feeling untouchable, as safe as if I were sitting in my own living room.]
The tragic days of our lives, the days of accounting, begin like any other, with routine, with the bagel in the toaster and the coffee on the stove. So this is a morning. Sunlight streams through the big picture window, though it’s cold, down to zero overnight, and the lake is sealed beneath a hard uneven tegument of ice so thick you could drive a truck across it. Miriam is feeling good, the pain in her hip subsiding under the ministrations of the prescription the doctor gave her, while Sid, home from work because things are slow, is sitting across the table from her, his head bowed to the paper, jaws working at the bagel she’s smeared with cream cheese and decorated with a transparent wafer of lox and a sprinkle of capers. They’re silent, she absorbed in her thoughts, he in the paper. The only sounds are the little ones, the tap of a spoon on the rim of a cup, the sigh of the knife as it divides another bagel.
“You want juice?” she says. “Fresh-squeezed, I can make fresh-squeezed, with the oranges Molly sent us from [REDACTED]?”
He glances up from the paper, his eyes a roving watery blue above the little wire-rimmed reading glasses clamped to the bridge of his nose. His fringe of hair, so thin now that it’s barely there, sticks up awkwardly in back. He’s dressed in bluejeans, moccasins, a thin gray sweatshirt she’s washed so many times it’s almost white. “Yeah,” he breathes, “I guess. But don’t go to any trouble.”
She’s already pushing herself up, about to say, “They’re going to go bad soon anyway,” when she glances reflexively out the window, just as she does a hundred times a day. There’s a scattering of snow like dust over the beach, the lake, the long low building that houses the concession stand. Everything is still, not even a bird moving among the stripped black branches of the trees. Susan says that Miriam needs a hobby, needs to get out more, and maybe she does spend too much time at the window, more interested in what’s outside than what’s here inside the house—if this is what old women do, biddies, yentas, then she guesses she’s one of them.
But something’s wrong, something’s out of place. She spots it then, a moving shadow in the deeper gloom cast by the overhanging roof of the concession stand, a man there, furtive, jerking back the door and ducking inside. “Sid,” she says, her blood quickening, “there’s somebody out there. I just—I think somebody just broke into the concession stand.”
“Who? What are you talking about?” He’s set down the paper now and he’s leaning forward to peer out the window, his lips pursed in concentration. “I don’t see anything.”
“He just went inside. I’m telling you. There’s somebody in there.”
This is an old story. There’ve always been problems with the place, the lake an irresistible draw for teen-agers looking for trouble, and over the years the outbuildings have periodically been broken into, though there’s not much to steal, not in the off-season. They don’t seem to care. They just want to smash things, carve epithets into the counters, spray-paint their dirty slogans in the corners where children won’t be able to miss them come summer. It’s been that way since the first truckload of sand was laid down, though it’s worse now, always and progressively worse, because the community isn’t what it was. And never will be.
Sid doesn’t want to be bothered, she can see that. He thinks she’s crazy, calling him at work every time a strange car pulls into the lot, ringing up the Yorktown cops so many times they don’t even bother to send a patrol car anymore. He’s already turned back to the paper—“It’s nothing, Miriam, nothing, don’t worry yourself”—when she snatches up the binoculars. At first she can’t make out a thing, but then she focusses on the door, and, sure enough, it’s standing open and there’s movement there, a man’s face showing like an image in a slide projector, presented and withdrawn all in the space of an instant. “Sid. Sid!”
The look he gives her is not a loving look. He sighs in that way he has when he’s feeling put-upon, a sigh that could contain a novel’s worth of martyrdom and resentment. But then she’s handing him the binoculars and he’s standing there at the window, focussing in. After a moment, he emits a low curse. “Son of a bitch,” he mutters, and he strides across the room to the door even as she calls out “Take a coat!” and tries to fumble into her parka and slip on her boots all at the same time.
By the time she reaches the gates he’s already at the paddleball courts, moving swiftly, his shadow jogging on ahead of him. It’s cold and she’s forgotten her glasses. She digs into her pockets, but can come up with only one mitten. The pain in her hip is back, as sharp as a scalpel. She’s forcing herself on, breathing hard, breathing as if she were about to have a heart attack, when she hears the shouts ring out, and she makes the open door just in time to see Richie Spano, in a black peacoat and with a dark slash of a mustache slicing his face in two, standing over Sid, who’s stretched out supine on the gray concrete floor. What she doesn’t know, not yet, because she hardly ever talks to Marsha anymore, is that Vic Janove, who’s run the concession stand for the past twenty years and who’s become as close to the Goldsteins as she and Sid used to be, has asked Richie, as a favor, to look after the place while he’s in [REDACTED].
Sid is down on the concrete. He’s sixty-eight years old and he’s just been in a fistfight. And Richie, the breath issuing from his mouth like one of those dialogue balloons in the funny papers, squares his shoulders, swings around, and walks right past her and out the door, and all he says, his voice so fierce and choked he can barely get it out, is “You bitch. You stupid interfering bitch.”
[This, too, is family legend, though it’s etched in pain. Sid, who had suffered what the neurologists quaintly call an insult to the brain when his head struck the concrete, was too stubborn to go to the doctor. He’d been knocked down before. It was nothing. He took a fistful of aspirin to quell his headache, asked Miriam to make him a cup of tea and maybe some soup, borscht or chicken noodle, it didn’t matter, because he wasn’t really hungry anyway. Three days later, when he finally relented, and she, unsteady on her feet herself, tried to help him down to the car, he collapsed in the driveway. He was dead before she could get the car door open.]
It’s a Saturday in July, another Saturday, the voices of children careering about her and the steady thwock of the dense black rubber ball punctuating her thoughts. These are new children, of course, the children and grandchildren of her friends and of the new people, too. She barely glances at the men on the paddleball court—they’re interchangeable, their bare legs furred in dark swirls, T-shirts glued to their torsos, sweatbands at their wrists. Their voices rise and fall, immemorial. Someone laughs. A radio buzzes, seeking the signal. Thwock. Thwock. She knows it will all be lost, everything we make, everything we love, everything we are.
Her eyes close, the sun pressing at her lids like a palpable weight. She can feel everything, every molecule of the hot aluminum slats of the chair and the fading grains of sand. She can taste the air and smell the cold depths of the lake, where no one ever drowns and every child comes home safely. There’s a splashing in the shallows, a dog raising its voice in ecstasy, the sharp tocsin of the lifeguard’s whistle. And then peace, carving out a space where the big green turtles rise lazily from the depths and the geese float free and a little girl, somebody’s daughter, comes wet and shivering to her mother’s sunstruck embrace. 

