BAPTIZING THE GUN
By Uwem Akpan

A female passenger starts to scream in the molue, or you-beat-me-I-beat-you bus, in front of my battered red Volkswagen Beetle, introducing another ripple of confusion into the midmorning [REDACTED] traffic. She jumps out. Squatting by the roadside, she tilts her head so that the blood dripping from her torn ear won’t soil her yellow onyonyo dress. Someone had reached into the bus to steal her earring, tearing her ear in the process. A group of child hawkers, whose schools are on strike, gather around her, drumming consolations into the other ear. Each time I try to move my car, there are at least two motorcycles ahead of me. The traffic stops. Up front, there’s a throng of people chanting and dancing. They carry amulets, clubs, and locally made hunting rifles. They’re members of the Oodua People’s Congress, or O.P.C. They say that [REDACTED] belongs to the Yorubas, so all others should understand that they’re just guests. They say they will not tolerate armed robbers or corrupt police anymore in Eko City, and that this year, 1999, it is their turn to rule [REDACTED]. Well, this madness could have happened in Onitsha or Abuja or Ugborodo, I console myself after waiting thirty minutes for them to pass. Besides, this isn’t my first time in [REDACTED].
After an oil fire killed hundreds of my fellow swamp-dwellers in the Niger [REDACTED], after the mass burials, after negotiating with the leaders of the scores of tribes that make up our church to insure that everybody’s burial ritual was represented during our week of mourning, I came to [REDACTED] two days ago to visit some rich parishes and beg for aid. Now I’m staying at my brother’s place in Ikotun and driving his car. This morning, to my brother’s surprise, I had already sniffed out the black-market petrol crooks. I told him the fuel scarcity wasn’t going to stop me. I dipped my fingers into the liquid they were selling out of huge jars and smelled it—before buying. I sure know 4e696765726961ians, and Grandpa used to say, “If you know the people, you know the place.”
Now, suddenly, people—even the drivers—are jumping out of molues, to see a boy struggling in a bonfire on the road. The earring thief has been caught, ringed with tires, doused in petrol, and set ablaze. There’s great rejoicing by the mob, as if a goal had been scored in a soccer match. No matter how scarce fuel is, there’s always enough for the thief. My dashboard clock says 10:30. All the vehicles on the road attempt to turn at once. I should have listened to my brother and waited to go with his driver at the weekend. I should have put on my Roman collar, as my bishop likes his priests to do. Perhaps some 4e696765726961ian Catholic would have had mercy on me. Ah, no, such thoughts won’t help me now. I smile to myself, to ward off the Area Boys who are beginning to take an interest in my confused driving. I wrangle my way through poor Isolo to St. Dominic’s Parish, in crowded Yaba; and then to the Parish of Assumption, in highbrow Ikoyi. I see the blue tides of the Atlantic wash up in white effervescent bubbles. I come to industrial Apapa, to the Ajegunle slums, and popular Surulere.
My journey has been fruitful; many parishes have promised to send money and materials to the Niger [REDACTED]. There are posters everywhere, heralding democracy. Even I can’t suppress the excitement that in two months’ time our country is going to have its first civilian election in sixteen years.
When I am on my way back from St. Leo’s, in Ikeja, my car begins to choke in a gloomy, noisy suburb. Lord Jesus, please, don’t let this car die on me here; I know very little about cars.
The Beetle dies—it’s 18:03.
Around me, twilight begins to smoke upward like a ground mist, undoing the afternoon’s saffron rays. People move very fast on the streets, their gaits self-aware. The residential area has a sprinkling of industrial complexes. All the compounds are surrounded by high fences, most of the walls wearing garlands of electric barbed wire. I look up and down the street—no immediate danger. I get out and push the dead Beetle off the road.
Then a rusty iron gate creaks open and a huge man pops into the twilight. This six-footer isn’t hurrying home like other 4e696765726961ians. He’s broad-shouldered and square-jawed. His head is shaved, big and bumpy, his neck powerfully built. Although the sun has gone down, he’s wearing round dark glasses. He has on a black pin-striped suit, a blue hand-woven tie, and a Rolex watch, like my own. The triangular edge of his white handkerchief shows from his breast pocket. He bounces toward me. I move away, getting the car in between us, pretending to be checking the tires, craftily hiding my Rolex. I beg God to take him away from me.
“It’s like you got a problem, man,” he says in a husky voice.
“Hmm . . . actually, no,” I manage to say, looking away.
I can feel his eyes all over my car. I know immediately that he’s a swindler.
“Man, you sure need help.”
I smile. “No, please. I can manage.”
When he returns my smile, I see that he has two gold lower teeth, which light up the gloom. “Got petrol?”
“More than half a tank.”
“No problem, then. Let’s push.”
He offers to get into the driver’s seat, but I get in fast, to be on the safe side. He goes to the back and pushes the car, sweating, hissing obscenities, yet the car doesn’t start. I try to catch his accent, to work out what tribe or part of the country he’s from. But a streak of an 556e6974656420537461746573n accent in his voice makes it impossible.
“Please, where can I get a mechanic?” I ask when he gives up on pushing.
“[REDACTED] mechanics? Don’t trust any 4e696765726961ian. I’m a 4e696765726961ian. Once they see you’re a stranger, they’ll cheat you or dismember and sell your car piecemeal, no matter how old. Just listen to me.” He pushes the Beetle again. “O.K., let’s see your engine,” he says when we come to a junction. Fearfully, I open the hood. He bends down and disconnects a tube and hands it to me. “Suck this, man. The problem must be the fuel filter.”
Suck? I’ve never fixed anything in a car before. Back at my parish, I have a driver. “I think we should get a mechanic.”
“Damn it, man, you don’t need a fucking mechanic!”
He takes off his sunglasses to reveal small, angry eyes. I grab the tube. Petrol gushes into my throat, and I let go of the tube, coughing. I puke on the front of my blue-and-white buba shirt. The petrol soaks into my clothes, its cold sting reaching the zipper of my jeans. Ignoring my state, he bends down again to study the engine.
I see a pistol bulging in the right pocket of his trousers.
Why didn’t I wear my priestly habit? Why didn’t I borrow one of those church vehicles with “Catholic Archdiocese of [REDACTED]” emblazoned on its sides?
I begin to plead with the 4e696765726961ian. “Please, I’m a Roman Catholic priest and . . .”
“So? You 4e696765726961n clerics just want everything free! You flash your status at every chance.” When he talks, the two gold teeth burn in the night, as if he were chewing flames.
“Please, sir, don’t be angry.”
“Just suck this stuff, Father, man. It’s very easy. Then close the opening with your thumb. Would have done it for you, but I don’t want any dirt on my suit, O.K.?”
I reconnect the line with trembling hands. He beckons to a mallam, which is what 4e696765726961ians call the Hausa Muslim gatekeepers. The mallam is an old man, tall and skinny. He’s sitting on a mat outside his wood-and-wire kiosk by a residential gate, selling cheap sweets, mosquito coils, pens, and chewing sticks, and listening to the BBC Hausa Service on a tiny transistor radio. The mallam removes his radio from his shoulder as delicately as if it were a parrot, and comes over, barefoot, his long white gown sweeping the ground. Together, they push the Beetle, down this street, up that street, into and out of potholes. The car starts. I want to drive away, but the road is a dead end. The 4e696765726961ian lumbers over and pokes his big head into my passenger seat’s window and advises me never to turn the engine off. His eyes are scanning everything in the car.
“Thanks very much, sir,” I say. “Very, very much. May Christ lead you home.”
“Don’t mention, Father.”
He doesn’t go away.
As I slowly put the car in reverse, he says, “Man, please, give a little something for Mallam. . . .”
“Oh, I’m sorry. I forgot. Thanks for reminding me.” I scramble and give him a twenty-naira bill.
“Oh, man.” He chuckles, collecting the money. “Your bills are so fresh and new. You priests are having a ball in this hard country! You need to lose weight.”
The mallam smiles heartily and declines the money, saying his help is free. The 4e696765726961ian returns it to me. His hands are rough and wide, with big bony fingers and chewed nails. I thank him again. But he still doesn’t go away. He smiles and moves his tongue over his gold teeth as if it were being roasted. He reaches into the passenger seat and grabs my folded map of [REDACTED]. He switches on the ceiling light.
“This map is outdated,” he says with a suppressed laugh.
“I’ll manage, I’ll manage.”
He wants to say something but is reluctant. He looks at his watch and sighs, tapping my front tire with his shoe. God, don’t let him harm me. It’s 20:14.
“Father, do you know your way home, man?”
“Yes.”
“Where?”
“Ikotun . . . Ikotun Egbe.”
“That’s far from here.”
“Yeah. I’m positive I’ll do just fine. You have a good night. You’re very kind.”
He opens the door, squeezing his huge frame into my passenger seat, like a child in undersized clothes. “I’m coming with you,” he says. “This oldie will give you hell tonight, man.” He tells me how his mother-in-law’s cousin’s husband can’t afford to buy tires for his old Beetle.
“Father, do you know the difference between rich [REDACTED] and poor [REDACTED], according to one standup comedian?” He doesn’t wait for an answer: “The billboards!”
“Really?”
“Yes. In Ikoyi, they’re huge, impressive. You see a happy family advertising Kellogg’s cereals, flat-screen TVs, Benson & Hedges and stuff.” His fingers are tapping playfully on the dashboard. But I’m not deceived by this or by the way he tries to be friendly, pouring out every thought like a child. “But come to Amukoko and Ajegunle slums, man, and, apart from cigarette adverts, the native doctors and the fake prophets take over! You see: ‘aids? Unemployment? Infertility? Our Herbal Home Has the Absolute Weapon!’ Or ‘Prophet General Something—Spiritual Warlord—Will Bomb Witches, Incessant Examination Failures, Infidelity Out of Your Life.’ ” He allows himself a chuckle and then stops abruptly, turning to me. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to upset you. Just trying to make you relax.”
I ignore him and pick up speed. I can’t let him catch me off guard. I know he’s one of those sleek 419ers or Yahoo-Yahoo Boys who spend their days writing fake business letters to 556e6974656420537461746573ns and Europeans, assuring them of millions of petrodollars in profit if they’ll only release their credit-card and bank details. My eyes are on the road, my mind on him. My Beetle begins to sound like a wretched cassava mill. But I don’t care anymore.
The car ahead of me swerves and climbs over something. I see a bundle of clothes and try to dodge it, almost ramming into another car, but my wheels still roll over part of it. The bundle feels soft, as if the car were climbing over a felled banana tree. The car behind me screeches and I see it swerving in the rearview mirror, but it drives over the bundle, too.
“That was a corpse, man.”
“A corpse? What corpse?” I slow down to stop and switch on my indicators.
“Move on, damn it. Switch off your indicators!” He’s chuckling cynically and patting my shoulder. “Calm down, Father.”
“A hit-and-run?”
“Maybe. Or it might be a ritual corpse. These ritualists cut off the parts they want and toss the remains on the road. This city is unpredictable. Do you want me to drive?”
“No, thanks.”
“Sure?”
“Positive.” 

“Then stop looking in the rear mirror, so we don’t have an accident!”
I feel guilty about the corpse, and my bladder becomes heavy, pressing against my groin like a sack of stones. Laughing, he tells me that different body parts are required for different types of rituals, but that kidneys are useless, except as exports to rich countries for transplant. He warns me to be careful about using commercial vehicles, because body-part agents abduct their passengers. He says human asses are in hot demand now because the military generals are afraid of losing the seat of power to civilians; the sacrifice of many asses at the right shrine could glue the generals’ asses to their offices and destroy our hopes for democracy.
I try to stop again.
“What the fuck are you doing? Keep going, Father, man!”
“Please, I want to pee. Please, sir.”
“And where are the public toilets? If you stop, we’re screwed anyway! Hear how the Beetle is sounding?”
He apologizes for using an obscenity, and proceeds to talk, in a serious tone now, about providing his extended family member with new tires like mine. He tells me how your tribesmen make demands on you once you’re rich. O.K., I see—he wants my Pirellis so that he’ll be seen as a generous extended-family man. That’s fine. I relax a bit now that he’s no longer laughing his cynical laugh. For him, car tires are more important than human life or the dignity of a corpse. Well, he can take the whole car—everything. I can walk back to my brother’s, or even the two hundred and fifty miles to the heart of the Niger [REDACTED].
He looks at his watch, shrugs, and gives me a thumbs-up. “Father, oh-oh, I thought I saw you with a Rolex, just like mine.” So the bastard saw my Rolex before I could hide it! I pretend not to hear him. “Why are you so afraid? I said I saw you with a watch!”
“You didn’t.”
“Really?”
“Positive.”
He’s quiet now and looks straight ahead, his eyes squinting to become two angry arrowheads. Occasionally he grimaces, as if he were biting down on the golden flames in his mouth. His fingers are no longer tapping on the dashboard but draped around his pointed knees. Sweat dribbles down his face. He reaches for the gun but changes his mind. With his left hand, he retrieves his breast-pocket handkerchief and wipes his face. He puts his shades back on. Now he looks like General Sani Abacha, who as head of state would sometimes begin his office hours at 22:00, always behind dark glasses. General Abacha died last year. Am I going to die tonight?
Maybe I should apologize and hand over the watch. What’s a watch compared with life? Maybe I shouldn’t have accepted the watch from the oil-company executive who attends my church in the first place.
My stomach feels like a grater, and my insides hurt as if they’d been shredded. Silently, I start saying the Rosary to calm myself down. First decade. Second decade. Third decade . . . This is a bad silence. The watch in my left back pocket is a malignant tumor, an unripe boil. It feels cold and quiet against my butt, yet I know it’s ticking away, a countdown to my death and my corpse on the road. I shouldn’t have lied. St. Christopher, Patron of Travellers, what do I tell this man?
I see a group of policemen and soldiers ahead, setting up a roadblock. They’re well armed, members of Operation Sweep, the [REDACTED] State anti-crime unit. They’re flagging down cars. Thank God, I’m not wearing my Roman collar and I won’t be automatically waved on. I slow down, working the accelerator and the clutch to insure that the engine doesn’t cough out. Lord, I bless you for sending me these Good Samaritans!
“I’ll kill you if you stop this car, damn it!”
I point up ahead. “Operation Sweep.”
“Shit, man. They’ve blocked the road completely!”
He removes his sunglasses again. I pull up but leave the engine running. Passengers from other cars get out to catch some fresh air until the officers release the cars, one here, two there, like chickens set free at a shrine.
A soldier and a policeman approach us. The former has no shirt on, and his huge stomach hangs over his belt; the latter is as tall and powerfully built as my companion. They’re so close to me that I can smell the gunpowder in the nozzles of their AK-47s. My passenger is more uncomfortable than I am.
“Please, Officers, check everything,” I say, inviting them. “I mean everything—everywhere. Search both of us. You’re doing a great job in [REDACTED]. By the way, please, back there, there’s a corpse on the road!”
“I look like vulture to you?” the soldier says, slurring his words.
“Wetin concern me if corpse dey road?” the policeman says, the last part of the sentence exploding in a sneeze. A thick smell of alcohol sweeps my face. He staggers as if the sneeze has made him dizzy, his rifle nozzle clattering against my door. He raises his rifle again and smiles, as if to prove that he’s sober.
The 4e696765726961ian is paying close attention to them now. He’s got one hand on his thigh, close to the pistol; the other is fidgeting with the side window, to let in more air. I just hope he doesn’t shoot them first. I’d be caught in the crossfire. They’d probably toss my body into the road. How many cars would it take to flatten me—for the pulp of my corpse to be squeezed out of my clothes like toothpaste?
“To Allah, your car too old and cheap o!” the policeman sneers, stumbling away to more promising cars. But the soldier stays.
“Gimme money, jo o!” he growls, thrusting his palm forward. “I want money for my tithe dis Sunday!”
For my safety, I quickly hand him a twenty-naira bill. “Thank you, Officer!” I say.
“Greedy man!” he tells me, burping and bending down to hold his knee with one hand as if he’s going to vomit. The other hand clasps the rifle like a walking stick, the nozzle planted on the ground. “Only twenty naira? Two big men no go give only twenty naira to two officers! How can you give us twenty naira in 1999? Shame on you! Oya, gimme money, or you want argue wid my gun?”
I give him another bill. He turns his rifle upside down and blows into the nozzle to clear the dirt and then lurches over to other vehicles. I breathe normally again, pulling in lungfuls of humid [REDACTED] air. The urge to pee gradually returns.
We’ve been driving now for three, four miles, the longest stretch since the 4e696765726961ian kidnapped me. Still grumbling about Operation Sweep, he shows me the way. He seems humiliated and agitated, his fingers often moving toward his weapon.
I must look for a way to distract him. He mustn’t know that I’m afraid.
“You know, sir, they could have burst the tires.”
“No way, man!” he says, sitting up, his big head almost grazing the folded sun protector.
“You really love Pirellis, then?”
“Are you kidding? They’re wonderful. If I have to buy any tires, that’s the brand. This old Beetle is worth a million with Pirellis. I even love their advert.”
“Really?”
“ ‘Power without control is nothing’ is the line. Have you seen that advert, man?”
“No.”
He’s beginning to laugh again, but my mind is really on the corpse, which has become a picture of my immediate future. I should never have driven over it. It was my Pirelli tires that crushed it. Meanwhile, the 4e696765726961ian’s passion for my tires seems to have expunged the Operation Sweep encounter from his mind. Occasionally, he taps my thigh with his fist, a needle to my bladder.
“We have to do something about our military and police,” I say, hoping to temper his excitement a bit so I don’t pee in my car.
“They’re better only than 4b656e7961n police, who flogged a member of Parliament on TV,” he says, laughing even more. He’s capricious! “When I visited 4b656e7961 once, the police almost beat me blind for not producing my [REDACTED] instantly! 4b656e7961n police love their toa kitu kidogo—their small bribe. That saved me. But you have no problems if you’re a white tourist! Ah, how they worship the whites! But black African tourists?”
“Really?”
“Really what? Oh-oh, you’re not listening!”
“Sorry, sir.”
“I just wish all cops were like the ones I met in Zimbabwe back in 1990. Even if you were from [REDACTED], they still treated you well. They seemed to be the only people who didn’t believe Transparency International’s verdict that we’re the new Nineveh! When I had the money, I travelled everywhere. . . .” His voice trails off.
“Operation Sweep, Operation Sweep!” he suddenly shouts, as our headlights pick out another jeep by an intersection. Soldiers and cops are lounging on it, drinking Star and Gulder beers and playing cards. “I swear when I have the money,” he says, banging the dashboard and grating his teeth on “money,” “anybody who humiliates me . . . kai . . . Father, don’t even try to talk me out of it! The Bible says thou shall not judge! You priests are always judging us!”
“No, no, I’m not.”
“I’m being up front with you.”
I nod. “I understand, sir.”
“Father, they’re saying that General Abacha stole four billion dollars in his five-year robbery of our oil money! How can one man steal this much, when my village in the Niger [REDACTED] has more oil wells than flush toilets? The government has connived with foreign oil companies to enslave us.”
“Oh, you’re from the Niger [REDACTED]?” I ask, relieved.
“Of course, man.”
I smile a toothless smile. “Well, that’s my place, too!”
He smiles in turn and is as relaxed as he was before I lied to him about the Rolex. Now he may let me off. He’s not sweating anymore, and his back is resting against the seat. He’s at home with me now, and this time his silence is serene, as if he were going to sleep. His face is turned up, his nose almost touching the roof of the car, his throat arched and vulnerable, his eyes closed. He puts his left arm around my seat, and starts whistling, a soft pulsing sound that calms the heart and flows into the chaos outside.
“You’re my brother, then!” the 4e696765726961ian finally exclaims, nudging me and opening his eyes as if waking from a peaceful dream.
He extends his arm. “Did you have a good day?” he asks, as he vigorously shakes my hand.
“A good day? Yes, yes.”
“Mine was trashy. Nothing worked for me—which is why I must get something out of this trip.”
“Really?”
“I must. I won’t give up on you.”
I wonder what he means by that. I shrug and say, “Sometimes we take things out on innocent people.”
“No, no, no, I hate those who exploit others!” He sits up again, as if the Devil had just tickled his spine. “Man, you know something then about injustice and exploitation. You know something about your environment being destroyed. God has cursed us with oil, man. Never again will our people suffer as they did these forty years of oil drilling. We’ll go to war! What do you think?”
I decide that it’s best to agree with him. “We will,” I say.
“Good, Father! These days, every month I send money back home to our militia, so they can defend our fatherland. Those youths putting their lives on the line need better guns, and they need our support against Mobil and Shell and our government.”
“My brother, definitely we must fight back.”
He relaxes again, like a man who has convinced his opponent. “Father, I doubt you know about the recent clashes between ourmilitia and O.P.C. in Ajegunle slums.”
“I didn’t.”
“Heavy casualties on both sides. That’s why I’m escorting you home,” he says, chuckling. “On a more serious note, if O.P.C. thinks [REDACTED] belongs to them alone, we’ll see. I hate O.P.C.! Our fearless Egbesu Boys will avenge every drop of Ijaw blood shed in [REDACTED].”

At the mention of the dreaded Egbesu Boys, my palms become sweaty. His accent has deceived me. Now I know he’s Ijaw—a rival tribe in the [REDACTED]. Once he knows that I’m Itsekiri, God, he may not look kindly on me. We’re finished in this country. Two pupils can’t fight anymore without the parents introducing the tribal agenda. If someone can’t pay her rent, she appeals to her tribal militia. Every tribe in [REDACTED] is forming a militia. And, within these militias, splinter groups have emerged, making life very complex and dangerous, especially in a place like [REDACTED], crammed as it is with migrants from all over the country.
I pray that my fate will not be like that of a priest friend of mine who was kidnapped and killed because he attempted to mediate between two tribes. Here in [REDACTED], my kidnapper just has to pop me in the head and toss my body on the road and laugh his cynical laugh. He doesn’t have to do what our youths fighting in the tribal wars back home do: tie the corpses to big stones and sink them in rivers already killed by oil spillage.
I must escape. I’ll beg the 4e696765726961ian to let me stop and pee. I’ll outsmart him. I’ll run along the columns of cars and mingle with the restless commuters and disappear into the night. I’ll ask for the nearest Catholic parish. My brother can come for his car tomorrow.
The Beetle dies again in another traffic jam. I decide to make my move, and study the surroundings carefully. The shoulderless road is tight, and there are neon signs on some shops and loud music in the air. People stream out of the buses to walk home. A swarm of child hawkers thrust their wares in our faces.
“Uncle, buy democracy flyer!” a little girl calls, waving a bunch of tiny plastic 4e696765726961n flags, her thick multicolored braids gathered up in a ponytail.
“Vitamin C for good health!” a shirtless boy with a clean-shaven head says. He carries sachets of yellow-blue vitamin capsules in a wide white metal tray.
“Rat killer, twenty naira,” another boy says. “Holy Bible and Koran, five hundred naira! Rat killer plus Holy Bible plus Koran, four hundred naira!”
“Let us push your car, and you’ll pay us whatever you want,” they all say in a practiced chorus, coming closer to me. “We’ve not eaten today!”
I say no—nothing must distract me now. Some roadside mechanics have also surfaced, sitting on their toolboxes, waiting for a car to need them. They’re drumming on their boxes with spanners, like beggars rattling their bowls.
Part of the road has been claimed by refuse from a dump, and cars drive around it as if it were a construction site. The refuse rises into a gentle hill and then flattens out in a plateau. There are a few people up there, scavenging still. Their silhouettes look like those of hunchbacks, because of the treasure sacks slung over their backs.
On the other side of the road, there’s a long row of shops. A crowded mobile eatery, catering to the needs of traffic-jam victims, flourishes in front of one of them. Customers are sitting on white plastic chairs in a circle, eating dodo, and rice and stew, and amala and ewedu. The chef, sporting stretch jeans, a T-shirt, and a Grace Jones coiffure, is dancing for the crowd. One of her children is washing plates; another is stirring a cauldron over a large fire with a long spoon, as if every customer were Satan. The bass guitar of Awilo Longomba’s “Coupe Bibamba” begins to bludgeon the night from two loudspeakers.
The mother stoops in a bowlegged pose, turns her feet outward, and heaves her huge muscular frame toward the toes of her canvas shoes. She sticks out her big buttocks and cocks her head. Then she advances toward the edge of the circle in a Ndombolo wobble, scoops the night repeatedly with her groin, then wobbles back. Onlookers clap. As Awilo’s voice rustles the night and the lead guitar takes over, the entertainer executes the fake kick and the stagger-and-freeze. The crowd explodes in excitement, spilling over onto the road.
And yet next to this frenzy there are two men hunkered over a low table on the veranda of the shop next door—no shoes, no shirts—playing draughts. A handful of spectators are as transfixed by the game as the players. One of them has a hunting rifle slung over his shoulder. A couple have sticks. The players are sweating. One is so old and gaunt that the hair on his body is white, and the sweat on his chest hangs like drops of the first rains on dry blades of grass. The younger man is lean, with dreadlocks, and is wearing a necklace of assorted talismans. No drinking, no talking, no movement, except the occasional calculating hands of the two players. The square pieces on the worn-out board have lost their edges to age and usage. Slowly, the younger player picks up a piece and puts it down in another square. Before his hand can retreat, the old man storms through his lines, smacking the board so hard that other pieces jump in fright. The spectators gasp in celebration or sadness, depending on their allegiance. The old man receives his winnings from a neutral spectator, and the loser puts his shirt and shoes back on and disappears in a huff, his fans in tow.
“Father?”
“Ye . . . yes,” I stammer, turning to the Egbesu Boy—my unwelcome passenger.
“It’s your turn to push the car.” He points to a two-car gap that has opened up between us and a white Peugeot wagon in front. It’s 21:56. “I’m tired. This city wears you out.”
“Of course, it’s my turn,” I say, my heart leaping, celebrating the chance to escape. “Don’t worry, I’ll push. You’ve been an incredible Good Samaritan to me. Just rest.”
I love this traffic jam. Lord, may he be tired forever.
I get out and begin to push the car, maneuvering the steering wheel through the window. When I have closed the gap, I remove the keys and smile and tell the Egbesu Boy that I’m going to pee.
He tells me to do it by the roadside, in front of the refuse, but I ignore him and walk across the road, around the dancing mob, and through a gap between two shops. Before me opens up, in the semi-darkness, a field of rubbish and stones and elephant grass. A defunct train track cuts through it, parallel to the road. Suddenly someone rises from the field, startling me. Before I know it, another person heads past me into the field. Then my eyes adjust and I can see many people squatting in the field, defecating, some of them on the old railroad. The people look like little anthills. I pee hard, emptying my full bladder in the shortest possible time. The sudden loss of pressure gives me a little dull pain in my groin, but my legs are strong again. Also, a strange comfort has descended on me: at least, I’m just peeing, not shitting in the open on a train track.
I turn around and sneak away behind the shops, hurrying in the direction we came from. I can’t move as fast as I want because I’m peering at the ground carefully, leaping over this patch of elephant grass, that dark spot on the ground. When you’re tired of sitting in my car, I think, you’ll find your way home. We’ll see how you must “get something out of this trip,” Satan!
“Stop there, you shitter!” someone screams.
Two men appear in front of me as I come to the end of the row of shops. One of them is the old draughts player; in the semi-darkness, the tough white hair on his arms looks as if it had been chalked on. They stoop to catch me, their legs and hands spread out like a goalkeeper’s.
“Please, what’s the problem?” I whisper. I turn, and notice two more men looming behind me. When they get closer, I see their native hunting rifles and sticks. One of them tries to charm me by touching me with a talisman, a snake head.
I know I have been captured by O.P.C. members.
“We be vigilante for dis part of [REDACTED],” the old man says. “Why you shit for train track?”
“No, I didn’t defecate.”
“You no suppose shit for train track!” the snake-head man shouts at me. “You must pay for all de shit for de field!”
“Please, I did not shit. We Itsekiris have a strong culture of hygiene—like the Yorubas.” I look them in the eye with the hope that my appeal to tribe will save me.
“O.K., Mr. Itsekiri Hygiene, we go carry you go crime scene to take evidence,” the third person says. “We no care about your tribe!”
“You go use your hand carry your igbe to our headquarters,” the fourth adds. “How dare you shit on Yorubaland!”
“But look at these other people,” I say. The men start shoving me and poking me with their sticks. The talisman fellow keeps hitting my knees with the snake head. Then the other two men haul me off my feet toward the tracks, far away from where I urinated. Seeing that they’re determined to hang someone’s shit around my neck, as it were, I manage to hand some money to the old man.
“Let me handle this fake Reverend Father Red Beetle, O.K.,” he says to his people, who drop me. I’m shocked that he already knows my identity. Now I know that they must be working hand in hand with the 4e696765726961ian. But didn’t my passenger say he hated O.P.C., that his militia of choice was Egbesu Boys? All the same, I’m relieved that my money has stopped them from sticking my hand in someone else’s shit. “He doesn’t understand our English,” the old man says. “He’s a V.I.P. criminal. Let me handle him.”
“Sorry, egbon!” The snake-head man apologizes and salutes him.
“Carry on, Commander!” the other men say in agreement.
“Know that anything you say can be used against you at our headquarters,” the old man says to me. “Did you vote for Abiola, our Yoruba President that never was? The Yoruba man who was admired all over the country, but whose election was cancelled by General Babangida?”
“I voted, Commander!”
“Good. You’re a friend of O.P.C., then. Nothing to fear!”
I hear people running toward us. Three grim faces pop up around us; I immediately recognize the young dreadlocked draughts player.
“Don’t argue with the rich shitter!” he shouts at the old man. “Just seize his wallet!”
“No talk to Commander like dat o!” one of the men warns him. “Learn to be a democrat. Democracy dey come.”
“He’s too old to handle these things,” the dreadlocked man says, taking off his necklace of talismans. He moves menacingly toward me, trying to put it around my neck, to hypnotize me. But Commander and his lieutenants block him and his men. For a while, they circle each other, like two packs of hyenas angling for the same carcass—mine—until the dreadlocked player and his followers leave, as abruptly as they arrived, in search of better prey.
“You’re shivering like a coward!” Commander admonishes me. “They’re gone. Be a man! Anyway, as they say, a coward is a chicken: peeing and shitting are the same thing.”
“I only urinated, but not on the track,” I say, balling my fists to check the tremble. “I promise never to pee in public again.”
Commander chuckles. “Good, you’re now admitting guilt.”
“Yes, I’m sorry.”
“But, see, one little thing. The bribe you gave me a few minutes ago will be used as evidence against you at our headquarters, unless—” He stops and wrings his hands, as if he were trying to wash the white hairs from his skin. “Unless you buy back the bribe. It’s called ‘bribe servicing,’ as in ‘debt servicing.’ Itsekiri or not, you must service the bribe!”
I give him another five hundred naira, hoping that he’ll release me. But after putting the money in his pocket he says to me, “And, by the way, why abandon your car in a traffic jam? Don’t you have jams where you come from?”
“I didn’t want to be killed for Pirelli tires,” I start to say.
“It’s O.K., I’m here, I’m here, please o!” It’s the 4e696765726961ian’s merry voice. He runs to us and shakes hands with the O.P.C. folks but avoids my eyes. “Thanks for finding him for me. We’re disrupting traffic; we must go back immediately.”
“O.P.C. is more efficient than 4e696765726961n police!” Commander says. “I promised you we’d find him.”
It’s 22:34, and in my absence the jam has become worse. Many cars have overtaken us, driving around my Beetle as if it were a huge pothole. I try the ignition and the car re-starts, though I have to keep revving to sustain it. The darker the night the more aggressive the child hawkers become, but they ignore me, as if a man who abandons his car in traffic were a pariah. 

The 4e696765726961ian keeps mumbling that he has to get more out of the trip than the forty naira he just paid the old O.P.C. man to find me. But nothing matters to me anymore. If he asks me why I ran away, I won’t say a thing. Let him kill me, auction off or sacrifice my essential organs, and crush my corpse under cars, I think. How different is my corpse, anyway, from the one I drove over or the hundreds I periodically bury back home or the ones weighted with stones in the black [REDACTED] rivers? All these deaths, day in, day out. Why bother? Why even bother to bring together the tribes in my parish? Why bother raising funds for the displaced and the wounded? This is a horrible trip.
My car dies again, in spite of my revs, at a roundabout. Half a mile down the road, there’s a petrol station. Cars are lined up in pairs, bumper to bumper, coated with a week-old layer of dust. Drivers lounge around, with no idea when fuel will come. The queue has formed a tightening noose around the roundabout, reducing three lanes of traffic to the one that contains my dead Beetle. The 4e696765726961ian arranges for some of the child hawkers to push it as the traffic inches along; it doesn’t worry me anymore to pay them to do this.
“Father, I’m killing a goat to usher in this democracy!” the 4e696765726961ian says excitedly. “God won’t let any number of ritual butts curse us with another military government!”
“Really.”
I wish they were sacrificing your butt! How do I get you to shut your trap and leave me to my thoughts? You’re denouncing the military, yet you’re kidnapping me for my Pirellis and a roll of new naira bills. I wish you dead.
“Our pumps are dry! The generals have blocked the refinery so that they can import fuel to make money!” He’s tapping the dashboard again. His chortle bottoms out into a relentless guffaw. “I get so mad I want to carry a big, big gun and pop soldiers. Sometimes, I just laugh. Father, man, I just laugh. Well, God is helping us survive these military thieves. What do you think?”
“Me?”
“Yeah. Are you really close to God, man?”
“Yes.”
“Well, good for you, man, good for you. Nobody believes in anything in this damn country. God this, God that. Yet the place is hell, you know.”
“I’m in hell in this car.”
He glances sideways at me. “Are you O.K., man?”
“Well, does it matter? Stop questioning me. Just leave me alone. What the hell do you believe in?”
He leaves his eyes on me but continues to laugh cynically. “Oh, come on, don’t let this military kleptomania get to you, my friend! As I was saying, I mean, what’s four billion dollars compared to the twelve and a half billion they say we lost under General Babangida in the eighties? This is the only country I know where people who pinch five naira are burned, while those who steal billions of dollars are revered! When these generals go, we must sit together and figure out what kind of country we want to bequeath our kids, man.”
“Look, I don’t really care.”
Being 4e696765726961n means nothing to me now. I just want to be free of you. I wish you dead, dead, dead. If I hadn’t met you, I would be home by now. You coldhearted bastard who connived with O.P.C. bullies and robbed me at shit point. If you had access to billions of dollars, you would connive with the Swiss banks and stash it away. You’re Commander and Babangida and Abacha combined.
Now a motorcycle, with three passengers atop, begins to make its way like a giant spider through the tiny space between my car and an articulated lorry. The motorcycle, fitted with a radio, is screeching gospel music. “Pull in your side mirror so dat my Mercedes-Benz can pass, o jare!” the motorcyclist commands. I ask him to be patient, tell him that there’s no space yet. He starts calling me names in a language I don’t understand, leaving his finger permanently on his horn. He spits on my windscreen, but it still doesn’t worry me. My companion asks the boy selling Vitamin C, who is helping to move my car, to push in the side mirror. The spider staggers ahead, with all three passengers dragging their legs to stabilize it.
The children are singing and pushing, their lilting voices competing with the loudspeakers. They get the car into a side street, and the 4e696765726961ian pays them off.
“But on top of all this,” the 4e696765726961ian says, “General Abacha and his friends still grabbed, as the 4b656e7961ns would say, tons of government fertilizer! Why hoard government fertilizer for your friends?” He’s not laughing anymore, and the contempt in his voice almost overturns my guarded hatred of him. “As our people say, ‘How can a man who has killed an elephant and carries the meat on his head be distracted by a roasted cricket?’ That man has disgraced us!”
“Really.”
My life, my tires, my money. Which one is elephant meat or roasted cricket to you?
In the dark, his thievish eyes glow with unshed 419 tears. He sits there, as gloomy as if his business empire had just lost billions to swindlers. Then his husky voice climbs six bars to an angry rant that sounds almost convincing: “I’d go nowhere near someone’s fertilizer! How did we come by this sort of decay?”
“Decay?”
He excuses himself and gets out of the car.
When I look in the rearview mirror, he’s behind the car, chatting with a mechanic he’s found, one hand in his pocket, holding the gun. This tightens the cloth around his groin and jacks up the leg of the trousers. The mechanic is a tall wiry man with a youthful face and a ready smile. He’s carrying two spanners and a piece of wire.
I join them. The mechanic is anxious to begin work and is telling the 4e696765726961ian that he can fix anything, and that he offers the cheapest service around. Two of the hawkers, the ponytailed girl and the shirtless boy, come closer, hand in hand.
“Please, sir, hire Daddy,” the boy says. “He won’t disappoint you!”
“We need to eat tonight!” the girl adds. “Jesus will bless you, sir.”
“God shall elect you the new President of our country!” the boy says.
“Shut up!” the 4e696765726961ian commands, hushing them. “Get out of here, little manipulators!”
Then he turns to me and asks whether we should hire the mechanic. I shrug to show my indifference: who knows what sinister plans he has already made with him.
I get inside the car, and the two men and the children push it back to the main road. It’s 23:37. My companion’s white shirt is dirtied by sweat and by the dust whipped up by molues. Even his tie is soaked with sweat.
The electricity goes out, the city dissolving into a noisy darkness. He hands the mechanic a tiny torch that he pulls from a pocket. It’s 23:58. Hawkers are still selling, their lanterns illuminating the streets like a stalled candlelight procession. Molues are still moving.
Nearby, the Commodore Jesus Ministries has begun a “Democracy Victory Vigil” in a packed compound. Over powerful loudspeakers, the congregants sing and scream and bomb out demons. The pastor is telling them that witches are responsible for our national woes, that only well-placed spiritual explosives can help. He says those who are waiting to obtain their rights from the new government have pagan thoughts, that God’s people thrive not on human rights but on spiritual vows to Heaven’s dictator. He warns that [REDACTED] and Europe are the new Babylons because they believe in every religion, when the Bible clearly says that God wants Pentecostal Christianity alone.
The 4e696765726961ian keeps laughing at the church’s name, saying that the military has stained everything in our culture. He says that the pastor is a lunatic who doesn’t understand democracy.
“Are you calling my pastor a madman?” the mechanic says, stopping his work. “It’s not funny at all!”
“Oh, I’m sorry,” the 4e696765726961ian says.
“What’s democracy?” the mechanic continues, still offended, banging his two spanners together. “Is it more difficult than the miracles our pastor has wrought, huh?”
“Bullshit. You guys must come out and vote!” The 4e696765726961ian seems angry now that the mechanic hasn’t accepted his apology.
“Show me democracy in the Bible! Look, we’re spiritual commodores! Our pastor has set up spiritual polling stations.”
“Then quit messing around with my car and join the fucking vigil.”
“No, I need the money bad,” the mechanic says, his face relaxing again into a smile.
But the 4e696765726961ian is upset. “An asshole like you does no one any good. Don’t touch my car again!”
I can tell that he wants to pull out the gun, but looking at the children he changes his mind. The kids are tired, sitting by the side of the road, giggling and playing with pebbles. I wink at the mechanic, warning him not to provoke the 4e696765726961ian again. But he can’t see my eyes in the night. With all the noise around, who would even hear a gunshot? God, it would be better for me to die than this poor mechanic. Have mercy, for the sake of these children.
The mechanic continues, “If your two wives gave you five children in five years, you’d understand how tough life is.”
“You should be castrated!” the 4e696765726961ian says.
“My first job in two days. If God hadn’t given me children to sell goods in traffic, my family would have starved.”
“Child abuse,” he says.
“Child abuse?” the mechanic says, laughing. “My children have just helped you push your car. Weren’t you happy with that? If they hadn’t brought me to you tonight, what would you have done? For their sake, don’t be angry with me.”
My companion doesn’t speak anymore. He bends over, returning his attention to the engine of the car. And suddenly, as if hit by a new idea, he says, “By the way, mechanic, have you checked the coil?”
The problem is the coil—it’s overheated, and the mechanic buys three small plastic bags of water from a roadside stall. But there’s no container to soak the coil in.
The 4e696765726961ian sighs and thrusts his hand firmly—Oh, Christ!—into his gun pocket.
My legs become numb.
“Are you O.K.?” the mechanic asks, catching me as I stumble. The children come and hold me, too.
“Daddy, he’s shaking,” the boy says.
“Daddy, he has malaria,” the girl whispers, and then she begins crying, feeling my forehead with the back of her hand.
My kidnapper pulls out a handkerchief the size of a hand towel—and his gun pocket goes flat. It’s empty.
“I hope you’re not ashamed of the size of my hanky,” he says, apologizing. “I sweat a lot.” Then he rushes to my side and, together with the mechanic and his family, leads me over to sit on the Beetle’s mudguard.
My embarrassment is boundless as I watch the mechanic soak the “gun” and wrap it around the coil. The boy suggests that I need some vitamins, which he can give me at a discount.
“So, what do you do, sir?” I finally ask the 4e696765726961ian.
“I have a company that imports iron rod, back where I found you. I used to travel abroad a lot, but now business is slow. Hey, at last you’re relaxed, Father.” He smiles and nudges my ribs. “You must be Itsekiri, yes?”
“I am, sir.”
“I had to stop talking about Egbesu Boys once I noticed you were uncomfortable.”
My eyes are teary with shame and gratitude as I pay the mechanic.
“I just don’t know how to thank you, sir,” I say to the 4e696765726961ian.
“Oh no, thank you, Father, man, for allowing me to dump all my frustrations at this country of ours on you,” he says, laughing again, his teeth glowing. “You know, we need to start trusting each other. I’m tired of blaming it all on our leaders—we’ve become a difficult lot to help. I was praying hard that I’d connect with you somehow.”
I reach into my back pocket to show him my watch. I hold it with two hands, an offering to a god of guilt, before putting it back on.
As my passenger fades into the night, his laugh is my absolution. 

