THE GODCHILDREN
By Tessa Hadley

The three heirs, in three separate taxis, converged on 33 Everdene Walk on a fine afternoon in late May. They were in their early fifties, and had not met since they were sixteen or seventeen. [REDACTED], who had been officious even as a teen-ager, had organized the meeting by e-mail, via the solicitors: “If we’re all going to the house, why don’t we go at the same time? Wouldn’t it be fun to meet up?”
Now each was regretting having agreed to this.
Chris, who was a lecturer at a new university, was certain that he had spotted [REDACTED] at the station, ahead of him in the queue for taxis; he had been too embarrassed to make himself known to her, even though they could have shared the fare. She surely hadn’t had all that red hair thirty-five years ago, and she hadn’t seemed so tall then, or so loosely put together: the woman in the queue wasn’t large, exactly, but physically complicated, with a bright-colored striped wrap tossed over one shoulder which made him think of beachwear. Perhaps she lived in a hot country. He’d recognized her only when she threw her unguarded, emphatic glance at everyone behind her in the queue—boldly but blindly. Quailing, Chris was suddenly his anguished seventeen-year-old self again, stripped of his disguise as someone experienced and distinguished. His memories of Mandy, young, were dim but had an ominous intensity. He wished he hadn’t come. He knew already that he wouldn’t want anything, anyway, from the horrible old house. At least he wouldn’t be alone with [REDACTED]; although when he tried to recover his memories of Susan, the other godchild, he couldn’t find anything at all, only a neatly labelled vacancy.
The three taxis bore them, just a few minutes apart, out of the city center, then, swooping decorously downhill between traffic lights, through a species of suburb that seemed more remote from their present lives than anywhere they ever went on holiday. The sleepy, wide road was lined with limes, then flowering cherries; they passed a little brick-built library, a church, discreetly evangelical. Infantile knee-high white-painted gates opened onto bungalow gardens smothering under the pink and white foam of their shrubs and beds, weigela and flowering currant, waterfalls of clematis; the semi-detached house fronts were festooned with nostalgic wisteria. Four-by-fours were drawn up off the road, on asphalted drives. The sun shone unfalteringly, embalming everything; seeds and pollen drifted sidelong in the motionless air. What it brought back was not so much their past as a past beyond their past. By the time these three had come, as children, to visit their godmother here, their more fashionable parents had already decided that the suburbs were dreary: places to joke about, not to aspire to. Their parents were doing up, in those days, spindly dilapidated eighteenth-century houses, bought cheap, in the city center. Susan’s mother still lived in one of these, now worth a great deal, and Susan had spent the previous night in her childhood bed. In her taxi, she was hardly thinking of the meeting ahead—except to wish that she weren’t going to it. She was obsessing over jagged old irritations, roused by a conversation with her mother that morning.
Chris’s and Susan’s taxis pulled up outside 33 Everdene Walk at the same moment; [REDACTED] had got there before them, and the front door stood open to what seemed, to their foreboding, a seething blackness, in contrast to the glare outside. Who knew what state the house would be in? Susan was quicker, paying her taxi off; Chris was always afraid that he would tip too little or too much. She looked away while he probed in his change purse, then they politely pretended to recognize each other. He tried to dig back in his mind to their old acquaintance: how hadn’t he seen that the invisible, unremembered Susan might grow into this slim, long-faced, long-legged dark woman, somewhat ravaged but contained and elegant?
Meanwhile, [REDACTED], watching from a window she had just opened upstairs, saw thirty-five years of change heaped in one awful moment on both their heads. They looked broken-down to her, appalling. On her way to the house, she had bullied her resisting taxi-driver into two consecutive U-turns between the lime trees: visited by a premonition of just this disappointment, and then recovering, repressing her dread, willing herself to hope. [REDACTED] remembered the old days more vividly than either of the others, cherished the idea of their shared past—strangely, because at the time she had seemed the one most ready to trample it underfoot, on her way to better things. Now she revolted at Chris’s untidy gray-white locks, windswept without wind, around his bald patch: why did men yield so readily to their disintegration? At least Susan had the decency to keep her hair brown and well cut. Chris was stooping and bobbing at Susan, smiling lopsidedly, self-deprecatory. He wound one foot behind the other calf, rubbing his shoe on his trouser leg; when he’d done that at seventeen, it had seemed to [REDACTED] a sign of a tormented sensibility, which she had ached to explore and conquer.
She whistled from the window, piercing the Walk’s tranquillity.
“Come on up!” she shouted. “Prepare for the Chamber of Horrors!”
Not only the air inside the house but the light, from forty-watt bulbs, seemed ancient and rotten. The curtains were drawn across the windows in all the rooms. Odds and ends of furniture—a folding card table, a standard lamp, a barometer, picture frames showing peeling strips of passe-partout—were piled in the hall, half sorted, inventoried, forlorn and sour with damp. The house had been empty for a year, from the time of their godmother Vivien’s death. But none of the three had visited it since long before that, when they were teen-agers and came together. Chris had fallen out of touch with Vivien completely, decades earlier, on political grounds, and because it had never occurred to him that he owed her any duty; [REDACTED] and Susan had seen her occasionally in [REDACTED] over the years, separately, and not recently.
Susan stopped abruptly in the hall.
“But it’s so tiny!” she said. “Was it always this size? How come I remember it as spacious?”
“I don’t remember anything,” Chris said, alarmed. “Is it some form of dementia? I thought I remembered the house, but I’d swear I’ve never set foot in here before.”
“I’ve got rid of the solicitor,” [REDACTED] called from somewhere over their heads. “We’ve got it all to ourselves. I said we’d return the key to him when we finished. He was glad to get out—who can blame him? Isn’t it horrid? They’ll never sell it, will they?”
A squat staircase crawled up one wall from the varnished parquet in the hall; at the top, three bedrooms opened off a landing, along with a toilet and a bathroom whose stains they shuddered at, half guessing them. [REDACTED] loomed in a doorway: years ago, the striped thing draped over her shoulder would have been called a poncho. Her voice was more familiar to Chris and Susan than her person: caramel, hectoring, running on and on. What they both remembered most clearly—though differently—about the young Mandy was her physical perfection, as simple as a drawing done in a single curving line. Whatever she had worn in those days—a dress, or jeans and a T-shirt—had suggested her stepping out of it in one smooth movement. Her ease in her own body had been morally terrifying to the others. Her face was still bright—she had good skin and a thick mane of hair—but the rest of her had grown overbearing, to match her voice. Now she wore flat shoes and harem pants and a lot of jewelry.
ADVERTISEMENT
[REDACTED] had brought a packet of colored stickers. The plan for today, devised by her, was that they should each choose a color and put stickers on any items they wanted, then go shares on a man with a van to collect it all and deliver it to their respective homes. They had been invited to take whatever they liked from the house. They had also been left quite a few thousand pounds each, from a trust fund. This had come as a pleasant surprise to Chris, who was genuinely not worldly enough to have thought of the possibility, and had pretty much forgotten that he had a godmother. None of them were heir to the property itself, which had gone to a niece and a nephew, deserving because they had been kind to Vivien in her old age. 

“Oh, is this her?” Chris picked up a photograph from the top of a chest of drawers, where it was arranged on a lace doily along with a tin alarm clock and a cut-glass dish full of buttons and paper clips, everything soft with dust. “The face does ring a bell.” He was reassured. “She’s starting to come back to me.”
In the photograph, Vivien wore a checkered dress with a Peter Pan collar. Her small laughing eyes, horsy long jaw, and exuberant big-toothed smile were sandwiched between two circles of glass, held in a base of faded Art Deco plastic.
“Somehow, she persuaded us she was good-looking,” [REDACTED] said. “She used to seem so glamorous.”
Susan crossed to the open window, as if to breathe. “This place is giving me the creeps. I don’t want anything.”
“Don’t be silly,” [REDACTED] said. “Take it, and sell it on eBay.”
“It’s all old junk. Nothing’s even antique.”
“You’ll be surprised what you can get for it.”
Susan was fishing in her handbag. “I’m going to call the cab back. This was a mistake. Sorry, Mandy. I’ve had a dreadful morning with my mother.”
[REDACTED], focussing, took in properly for the first time that Susan’s understated bag was made of leather as soft as cloth, and that her clothes were sumptuous: simple cream linen dress, cranberry-red cashmere cardigan over her shoulders.
“Actually, it’s giving me the creeps, too,” Chris said, looking nervously from one woman to the other. “I could use a cab—if you don’t mind sharing, Susan?”
“Oh, no!” [REDACTED] wailed. “You pigs! You can’t leave me here on my own. It’s not fair!”
Chris and Susan stared at this overflowing stranger, claiming them. Both felt an inappropriate anxiety that she might howl with tears, and they might be held, unjustly, to blame for it.
“Please,” she said, softening. “We can do the stickers later. We could go out in the garden; we could find a local pub. But we can’t just let one another go as easily as that, as if none of it meant anything. Can we?”
Chris was bewildered. “None of what?”
It wasn’t anything sinister or criminal. Every few months, year after year, Vivien’s father—Daddy—tiny, bulky-shouldered, ill-tempered, with a burnished, age-spotted bald pate, had picked them up in his car from their respective houses and driven them to Everdene Walk in a grim silence that was almost hieratic, as if they were sacrifices heaped up for his daughter, visiting from [REDACTED], where she worked as a [REDACTED] to a succession of managers at ITN and Granada. From his driver’s seat, Daddy had emanated the distaste of a serious man for the frivolity of children, and an alarm that they might in some way damage his beige leather upholstery. But Vivien had been lovely to them, in her way. She had no children of her own: this was what their parents had always said when handing them over, as though they were being sent to soak up some surplus of mothering that childless women couldn’t help secreting. But Vivien wasn’t mother-like at all. She had not married, and [REDACTED] and Susan learned only later—Chris never knew about it, because he wasn’t interested—of her lifelong love affair with a married man in [REDACTED]. By the time of the children’s visits, whatever friendship had originally made each set of parents choose Vivien as a godmother had melted away: Vivien was too bossy, she was a snob, she belonged to a world of musty charm and optimism that their parents were leaving behind in the nineteen-sixties. The parents had been apologetic, actually, when Daddy’s car came, for sending their children as their proxies, when they were too bored to go themselves. But the children hadn’t minded, and not only because of the treats.
“None of what?” Chris asked, afraid that he’d missed something.
“Us!” [REDACTED] swept her arm to indicate the three of them, the sleeve of her poncho catching in a wickerwork pagoda on a side table. “We were really close, weren’t we? We were three odd solitary kids and we didn’t make friends easily, but here we met without any baggage, and we got on. It meant a lot to me.”
Sometimes [REDACTED] reread old volumes of her diary; she still wrote in it, too, filling pages copiously when things weren’t going well.
The others were accusing. “You weren’t solitary.”
“I was the most solitary of all: at least you both had brothers and sisters.”
“You were awfully spoiled,” Susan said, “with your ballet lessons and your deportment lessons and your tennis.”
“I didn’t ever have deportment lessons. Look, are you two going to stay? Don’t let me down!”
Susan stood hesitating. It depended on her: the others saw her power, which they hadn’t noticed in the old days. Her face was haggard, cheekbones jutting above hollows: if it was beautiful, there was also something naked in it, shocking. The unblemished skin was textured like soft parchment. What [REDACTED] remembered was glasses, a flat chest, hand-me-down bobbled jumpers ([REDACTED] had refused to wear hers, once the wool went like that), a reputation for good marks at the school where she had a scholarship (not the school that [REDACTED] paid for), and a stubborn, sulking resistance to [REDACTED], who—used to capitulation—had been intrigued.
“There’s a lot of Chinese stuff here,” Chris said, disentangling the pagoda from the poncho.
“They lived in [REDACTED] when she was little, and then [REDACTED]. That’s where they got their international flavor. You’d have thought they were jet-setters, from the way they talked. But Daddy was only in insurance.”
Warily, Susan dropped her mobile back in her bag, yielding as if she didn’t do it often.
“All right then,” she said. “I’ll stay for a bit. For old times’ sake.”
In the decaying room, the three of them were linked in heady intimacy for a moment, though they were also strangers.
“I’ll stay as well,” Chris said.
But the women had taken this for granted.
They found their old den. The others had forgotten it, but [REDACTED] remembered and led them to it—bearing bottles raided from the kitchen—though the way through the garden was unrecognizable. This garden had once been Daddy’s pride: amoeba-shaped flower beds mounded with color, crazy paving paths set in close-clipped lawns. There had been a swinging lounge seat with a striped awning, and every summer’s day had revolved around the necessity of taking this awning in if rain threatened. Now the neighbors in the Walk must have been despairing at the incursion of wilderness into their sanctuary: rusty dock and nettle stood waist high, bramble was advancing in the tall grass. Rubbish had been thrown in here, split bags bulging with rot, a spillage of broken things from the house, a plastic clotheshorse, a smashed china bread crock. In the heat, it all smelled potently of rank growth, baked earth, dog shit. The den was lifted up above the chaos, a raised space of hard mud on a bank among trees at the far end of the garden, opposite Vivien’s bedroom window, backing onto a little copse where the locals walked their dogs.
Susan had brought a blanket from the house for them to sit on, and [REDACTED] had chocolate in her handbag. They examined more closely the bottles they’d liberated: Johnnie Walker, Tia Maria, Cinzano, amontillado sherry. The bottles were filthy, sticky, greasy, but [REDACTED] was adamant that the alcohol was safe. She wiped around the tops with tissues soaked in whiskey, and was the first to swig, choosing the sherry. “My favorite,” she said. “Goes straight to your head. Wow!”
“Out here I feel more relaxed,” Susan said. Lying back on the blanket, she looked up at the blue sky through the spreading fans of leaves in a silver birch, wafting in the merest movement of air. The urgent onward flow of her days ceased abruptly; the sensation was as if something—her soul—had floated to the front of her forehead, while she sank down, breathing differently, vastly. “That’s what used to happen, in the old days. We used to get away from the house, out here.”
“But not at first. At first we loved it all.”
Vivien used to have tea ready for them when they came: twiglets, sandwiches with the crusts cut off, cream cakes, ice cream, jelly. If they visited her in [REDACTED], she took them to the opera at Covent Garden, the Natural History Museum, the Mermaid Theatre, Chez Solange, where a waiter picked extra strawberries off a gâteau for [REDACTED].
Chris played it safe with the Johnnie Walker. Susan tried Cinzano, in memory of Vivien. She reported that it was hideous.
“I danced for you all in this garden,” [REDACTED] said. 

Chris seemed to see her, in a leotard and some sort of scant fancy painted-yellow nylon thing, fastened to elastic on her wrists, which she waved about like wings. He registered both her absurd self-importance and self-exposure (the dancing wasn’t very good) and the breath-stopping effect of her bare creamy legs and bouncing pyramids of breast.
They had all shown off. Vivien had encouraged them to do it. Mandy had been a beauty, Chris a genius—he had held forth on existentialism, on the problem with Communism, which was human nature. They tried to think what Susan had been: Susan had had personality and depth, they remembered; she had read Dickens when she was eleven. Licensed, leaving shame behind them in the real world, they had expanded into the place Vivien made for them, reinventing themselves, becoming in the free space of the Walk exceptional. They had talked together, even in front of Vivien, as they talked to none of their friends, confessing their aspirations and their real thoughts.
Invited into Vivien’s bedroom, the girls had watched her change, with skillful minimal movements, into something pretty, tipping a bottle, dabbing perfume on pressure points, fixing earrings, skewering her feet into high heels. She had had a neat, miniature figure, had been quick and lithe and always on the move, talking and organizing. She had lent them novels—Nancy Mitford and Dodie Smith—and showed them photographs of [REDACTED]. Sweet as cake with them, she’d shown herself flinty toward anything she didn’t approve of. She couldn’t bear the hordes of tourists overtaking her old favorite places in [REDACTED]; she couldn’t bear the greed of the trade unions, or sloppy language—split infinitives or Bristol accents. The children hardly spoke to their parents about what went on at Vivien’s, fearing the chill of a different judgment than hers, a condemnation of fakery.
“I didn’t need deportment classes,” [REDACTED] said. “I had natural deportment—don’t you remember Vivien saying that? Natural deportment. And look what’s become of me!”
“What has become of you?”
“Two shops selling ethnic jewelry: Weymouth and Bridport. What about you?”
“I’m in family law. I work on contract to social services.”
Vivien had been right about Chris, though, [REDACTED] said. She’d looked him up on his university Web site: he was a professor of Early Modern Studies, whatever those were; he’d written books. With ready irony (this was a sensitive subject), he explained that at his university “professor” was only an honorary title; it didn’t mean what it did at the old universities—no promotion, no extra salary. Not even much honor, really. Also, nobody read his books.
“Did she ever mention God?” Susan said lazily, not sitting up. “After all, we were her godchildren.”
“She gave me a little white Testament when I was confirmed,” [REDACTED] said. “I still have it, but I’ve never read it.”
When they were drunk enough, they returned to the house. It seemed even chillier and dirtier inside, after their soak in the afternoon light. The kitchen hadn’t been altered in decades: there was an old gas stove, an enamel sink, little gingham curtains in place of cupboard doors. Bone-china tea sets had been pulled out of the cupboards and piled on the table, with colander, grater, mincer, wooden spoons anciently dark, Breton bowls painted with names, not theirs. They felt as if they’d come upon the scene of a desecrating burglary.
“We might as well take this stuff,” [REDACTED] said, pressing her stickers defiantly onto a few items—jugs and serving dishes—and piling them apart from the rest. “You know they’ll only get the clearance people in.”
“I liked this house so much,” Susan said. “I liked it better than my own house, though I knew I shouldn’t. I didn’t like modern things. I liked the thick pink carpet and the embroidered tablecloths—they were like something out of books. I imagined having flowers on the breakfast table and a maid to turn back your bed. Not that Vivien had maids. But in those days I thought that I’d want to live like that. In my head, I lived like that.”
“Have a tablecloth. Here’s a whole pile of them.”
“Now it all looks dismal.”
“Did you go and see her, when she was ill?”
None of them had. To be fair, they had not known how ill she was. [REDACTED] and Susan had spoken to her on the phone, in the last year; Vivien, who had never allowed herself to be ill for a day—as if it were a lapse in taste—had complained in angry spurts, between deploring her weakness for doing so, about her legs and her eyes. They had never been in touch with the niece or the nephew, so had not known that anything was serious, or terminal. They had known from Vivien’s voice, however, that she was changed, desperate, and they had not done anything about it. The married man—news trickled through to their parents, always months late—had also been very ill. “It’s our punishment,” Susan said, “to be here.”
Chris tripped over a pile of saucepans, Susan caught him, and after this they made their way around the house together, Chris hanging onto Susan’s arm, Susan and [REDACTED] holding hands, unclasping to sticker anything they wanted. None of them were in the habit of touching. All of them—even [REDACTED], who had lovers—were rather fastidiously inhibited in their ordinary lives. [REDACTED] was prodigal with red stickers. Chris put a yellow one on a Pembroke table that he might use to write on. Susan succumbed to a nineteen-thirties 4672616e6365ian hatbox and a pair of Chinese ivory masks.
“Those masks are nice,” [REDACTED] said, jealous. “Clever you, I didn’t notice them.”
Smitten momentarily with cupidity, Susan wouldn’t give them up; she put them in her bag, saving her pleasure in them for exploring later.
At the door to Vivien’s bedroom, [REDACTED] halted and the others crowded against her, breathing in one another’s heat and freshness, aftershave and wool, shampoo: they were middle-aged, but still clean and competent, at least. Here, too, everything had been pulled out of drawers and cupboards. All their eyes were drawn to where, beside the single bed with crumpled sheets, no one had cleared away a last cigarette, crushed out, slovenly, in a jam-jar top. None of them mentioned it. It might have belonged to whoever had made the inventory, but it might also have been Vivien’s.
“Do you two have children?” [REDACTED] said. “I don’t.”
Susan’s boy and girl were in their twenties; Chris was keen to tell them all about Thea—nine—though he didn’t see her often. None of the three, it turned out, currently had a partner.
“I have boyfriends,” [REDACTED] explained. “But I live alone, out of choice.”
“What’s the matter with us?” Chris wondered. “None of us have been good at making relationships. Do you think it damaged us, coming here?”
[REDACTED] was defensive. “I like my own company.”
“Or perhaps we were like that in the first place, and that’s why we kept coming.”
“Do you remember when we spied on her?” Susan said.
“I don’t remember spying,” [REDACTED] said.
“You must. Isn’t it in your diary?”
“How do you know about my diary?”
“You used to bring it, and read bits out loud to us. You used to write in it while we were here, telling us you were writing about us, then slamming the book shut if we tried to read it.”
[REDACTED] made a false face of contrition. “Did I?”
“I took everything too much to heart. That was my problem.”
When they were sixteen, seventeen, Vivien still made them tea, and they still ate it, but Mandy was always dieting and Chris and Susan were ravenous, triangles of sandwich making only one mouthful in the new scale of their lives. Torn out of the child bodies that had fitted them purely and exactly, they looked with resentful eyes at Everdene Walk, because they couldn’t love it again with the same glee. When Vivien enthused over their prospects—university for Chris, modelling for Mandy, for Susan some deep personal adventure—they longed to believe her, but didn’t trust that she really knew anything. So they were rude or silent, and knew they disappointed her. 
Also, they looked at one another differently. They had never met outside the Walk: now they were afraid that they might cross paths in the street or at a disco, and know too much about one another, blowing open the public persona that each so scrupulously controlled. And yet, when Vivien left them alone together, they couldn’t resist the luxury of freedom, within their exceptional little tribe. Even Susan, in one of her gouts of inhibited awkward eloquence, confessed that there was “someone” she liked. Mandy told the others what she’d done with boys at parties. She worked to perturb Chris, yet didn’t notice when she achieved this. He was delicious at that age, unknown to himself: skinny and jumpy, shadowed lashes dipping on his freckled cheeks, mouth twisted sardonically, a light of wit and nerves playing in his expression. Thirty-five years later, he didn’t look so very different, only his qualities, by persisting, had worn out their promise. He was more boyish in his fifties than he had been as a boy. 

One summer night, they told Vivien that they would walk home together; they didn’t need a lift. Daddy was old—he hated getting the car out in the evening—and they reassured Vivien that their parents wouldn’t worry. Their way was across the Downs, a miles-wide stretch of open grass in the middle of the city, dividing the suburbs from the center. There was hardly anyone else about. The heady spaces of warm night above and around them made them behave as if they were drunk, swaying and falling into one another, laughing and inventing stories. In the dark, they were unafraid. Mandy seized the others’ hands; self-conscious but grateful, they allowed her to tug them close, and swing their arms. It even seemed possible for a moment, as they walked under the shelter of a copse of tall beeches, where the grass wasn’t cut, that they might do something extraordinary, lie down all three of them in the grass and roll together, kiss together, press together, achieve some kind of interpenetration that all of them were yearning for, though none of them had come anywhere near it (not even Mandy).
Then one of them suggested that they go back and watch Vivien’s house. It might have been Susan, because she knew how to get into the den from the public path, without going through the Walk; perhaps they all thought that they would be better concealed in the den, for whatever was going to happen next, than under the beeches out in the open. It took a while to get back, and longer to discover which of the dark gardens belonged to No. 33; when, eventually, they’d struggled over the fence and settled into the little space, they were crowded intimately close together, breathing hard, and their mood changed from the floating blissful playfulness of the Downs to something more intent. The two girls were on either side of Chris, tight against him. They didn’t really think they would see anything. They imagined that, after they left, the house was shut up for the night.
A light went on in Vivien’s bedroom. The room had French windows and a little balcony, which was not wide enough to sit on but gave the room a Continental chic. From the den, they could see right into it. Opening the windows, Vivien leaned her arms on the wrought-iron balustrade, looking out into the night like a heroine in a film. She was wearing a turquoise nightdress under a filmy lacy matching knee-length peignoir: the girls knew that she called it this. With the light behind her, she didn’t look bad. Mandy put two fingers in her mouth and wolf-whistled. They expected Vivien to be shocked, to shut the windows hastily. But she only smiled, as if something were amusing, and straightened her back. Then they understood that her moments at the window had been a performance, projected at an imaginary watcher: the whistle had only made him unexpectedly real.
Turning inside, Vivien left the windows open, then came back to set up a folding chair where she had been standing. After a few more minutes she returned again, with a drink, cigarettes and lighter, and a book. She sat, crossed her legs, lit a cigarette, puffed at it in the shallow way she had, and sipped her drink; a slipper with pompoms dangled from her bare foot, which she moved in slow arcs, dipping and pointing the toes, whose nails, they knew, were painted vermillion. Her peignoir fell open at the thigh, nothing unseemly; and, anyway, she had nice legs, for her age. Mandy whistled again, softly; Vivien settled herself more sensuously in her chair, swung her slipper. They dreaded her giving herself away any further, and yet willed her to do so. Chris couldn’t wolf-whistle, but he could do fluting whistles like bird calls. While Vivien sat reading for as long as it took her to finish her drink, his bird calls slipped intermittently—swooning, brooding messages—out of the undergrowth, through the warm night. She put down her book, leaned her head back, closed her eyes, sighed, ran her hands luxuriantly down her nightdress. The children couldn’t move or speak, in case she heard them; they swallowed with dry throats. They didn’t dare look at one another, for fear of spurting out with laughter.
Then, at last, she stood up and took the chair inside, shutting the window, and the spell that had bound them was broken. Susan got up stiffly, groaning with pins and needles, brushing earth and twigs from her bare knees, whispering that she had to go; she was afraid of what her parents would think if she wasn’t back soon. She assured them that she would be fine, making her way across the Downs on her own (and, fortunately, she was). Chris and Mandy were left alone together.
In the present, too, Susan was the first to go. Chris walked out with her to her taxi when it came. They kissed clumsily—he went for two cheeks when she meant to do only one.
“We ought to meet like this again,” he said.
“That would be nice.”
Susan was insincere, one hand already on the door of her liberating taxi. Her counter-reaction after opening up came faster and more violently, as she aged: she longed to be alone with herself.
“Mandy’s right,” Chris pursued. “The past’s important.”
A chill made Susan pull her cardigan tighter; Chris seemed to feel it, too, when his eager look tipped down too far into her strained eyes. Embarrassed, indifferent to him, she burrowed away inside the taxi; its driver, elbow out of the wound-down window, summing Chris up dismissively, put the car in gear. She asked for the station.
Returning inside, Chris wondered aloud to [REDACTED], who crouched twiddling the knobs of a television with a bulbous green screen, what Susan had thought of him, in the old days: it seemed to matter suddenly.
“Wasn’t she mad keen on you at one time? In my memory, she as good as told you so. You probably weren’t listening. Weren’t interested, anyway.”
“You’re joking.”
“It was serious. In as far as they’re ever serious, those kiddie crushes.”
Chris took this new knowledge in, past the usual apparatus of his ideas and ironies, crowded as a junk yard.
“She did seem haunted. Disappointed. You don’t think there’d be any point in me . . . ?”
“Shouldn’t think so. That was a million years ago. It wouldn’t be you, haunting her now.”
He accepted this, resigned.
But the vibration of passion had been introduced into the darkened room: they both felt it, taken by surprise. They talked about other things: [REDACTED] queried whether books on the shelves, first editions by forgotten novelists, might be worth something; Chris said he doubted it. Meanwhile, he was uncovering more detail in the memory of what had happened between him and Mandy in the den. Not the dream-thing they had all three wanted under the beeches but a twosome more greedily down to earth, his hand pushed under her bra, hers into his unzipped jeans, actually a first for him. Though he hadn’t cared for Mandy much, his gratitude had been overwhelming; it had dissolved him. (“Do you like me? Do you like me?” she had kept asking.)
He woke up, for once, to the blossoming of the present moment.
He couldn’t make love to [REDACTED] now, in this decomposing house. Could he? They were too old to do it in the garden. Perhaps it didn’t matter that she wasn’t his type. Anyway, what type was he?
“Aren’t you glad I arranged for us to meet?” [REDACTED] said, still wanting praise, making her old face of pouting, flirting dissatisfaction.
Susan in her taxi, dusty hatbox on the seat beside her, fingered the ivory masks in her handbag, out of sight: a man and a woman with broad, composed, stylized faces, lowered eyes. She didn’t remember them from her childhood. They were meant not for wearing but to hang on a wall, beautiful, carved into the curve of the tusk. She was sure that they weren’t trash made for tourists. Her smoothing thumb took pleasure in the long cheeks, bulging eyelids, jutting mouths, the ridges of the brows and hair, the woman’s earrings and her comb. 

