ALONE
By Yiyun Li

When the waitress came to take the order, she asked how Suchen was doing with the smoke. Suchen replied vaguely that all was well with her, though she had no idea what smoke the waitress was talking about. The man sitting at the next table, an elbow away—the patio was barely large enough for the six tables it held, three of them unoccupied—must have been observing the exchange; he leaned over after the waitress had left and explained that up north the wildfire was just a few miles from the state highway.
The October sky was blue, empty but for some still wisps of cloud. The restaurant, Mony’s, was the last on the block, and the road running past the patio narrowed into an unpaved footpath that vanished into an open field. Apart from the bushes and the grass, green and unaffected by the season, there was not much between the town and the mountains. Ski lifts idled above aspens, their leaves just beginning to show a tinge of yellow. Suchen could sense no trace of smoke in the air.
An old couple, sitting at a third table on the patio, were also discussing the fire, their voices loud enough to be an invitation, and the man next to Suchen wasted no time chiming in. The couple wore matching polo shirts the pale yellow of newborn chicks, and their hair had faded to a similar sandy shade. They lived two valleys north, the wife explained, where fall was already descending with all its colors, and what a beautiful season it would be if it weren’t for this fire. The man eating alone expressed sympathy, and then began musing about fire control: wildfires had existed long before [REDACTED]—or, for that matter, the earth—was claimed by human beings, he said, and there was no point in trying to beat something that was part of nature. The old couple listened, neither agreeing with the man nor withdrawing their smiles, careful not to embarrass a stranger. Suchen looked at the slice of lemon floating among the ice cubes in her glass and blushed, as though the man were her companion. She imagined what the couple would say to each other on their drive home. A husband and wife who behaved so courteously toward the world must have ways of dealing with awkwardness like this—a subtle reference to someone similar they’d encountered, or perhaps just a benign dismissal of the man’s opinions. Suchen wondered what it would be like to be understood without having to speak, the comfort of silence without the threat of misunderstanding or estrangement.
Pure greed, Lei had said, shaking his head mockingly when she had told him that this was what she had dreamed of for their marriage. Of course, he was right, Suchen had readily agreed. If a woman did not desire clothes or jewels or children, she’d said, taking up his tone, although she was the target of its mockery, she would harbor some other form of unreasonable greed, no? He did not reply but poured more wine for her, and then for himself. It was the night before his flight back to 4368696e61. When they spoke again, it was about his trip, the few things he needed to pack in the morning in his carry-on, and what she should do with the clothes and other belongings he was leaving behind. What they had not talked about at their last dinner was that they would be taking the most natural and least hurtful course to becoming strangers: their marriage would no longer be on his conscience when he went with his business associates to the night clubs and karaoke bars of 4368696e61, where young women blossomed under the dimmed lights, eager to be chosen. In time, he would choose a woman, not one he’d met in a night club but someone more companionable and trustworthy, who would not oppose the idea of having children with him, and whose greed—if she had any—would be easier for him to understand and to satisfy.
The divorce papers had arrived six months later, mailed to the cottage that Suchen had rented, not far from their old house. She had signed them at once and mailed them back. She had wondered what to do with the wedding ring—a thin, unadorned band; when they had married, sixteen years earlier, they had not been able to afford a more lavish one—and in the end she had put it in the plastic folder where she kept her passport and her green card. She had brought the folder with her, in the car trunk.
After the couple left, the man told Suchen that his name was Walter. When the waitress came with Suchen’s salad, he asked for a refill of coffee. He appeared to be in his late sixties or early seventies; his hair and beard, both patchily grayed, were bushy. He had on a light-blue shirt, buttoned to the top and wrinkled by sweat—it was a warm day, and there was not much of a breeze on the patio. He was in town from [REDACTED] for an event organized by the alumni association of his alma mater, he said; he and his wife had been invited as the top donors from their region.
Suchen stabbed at a slice of pear and wondered if there was a death or a divorce she would learn about. But what difference did it make? A change of circumstance had led the man to eat alone at a ski resort before the first snowfall. Outside the town, there were trails to hike and rivers to fish, but those activities were for people with companions, or for those with solitary souls. It was loneliness that had led him to seek a conversation on a restaurant patio long past the lunch hour, as it was loneliness that had made her empty the refrigerator in the cottage and pack her belongings into five mega-sized black plastic garbage bags and drop them outside a Goodwill early one morning. Suchen had left a check in the cottage to cover an extra month’s rent and a note apologizing for breaking the lease. The landlady, who lived next door, was a widow in her seventies. On holidays, her children and grandchildren would visit her, their cars crowding the driveway and spilling onto the street, the lights in the house burning late into the night. Suchen wondered what the landlady would tell her children about the runaway tenant at the next Thanksgiving dinner—or perhaps the incident would have been forgotten by then, and an ad would already have brought a replacement for Suchen.
Walter asked Suchen where she was from. [REDACTED], she said, although she knew he’d meant where she was from originally. 4368696e61 was not an answer Suchen gave people these days; there was no point in making unnecessary connections to strangers, in discovering whose neighbors, friends, or acquaintances had travelled to her country. The last time she had been there was for her mother’s funeral, eight years ago, and before that, two years earlier, for her father’s. She had not kept in touch with her siblings—a brother and a sister, both younger than she—whose attitude toward her had gone from intimidation in their youth to indignation as adults.
They must have been given some explanation after the accident, as their parents had insisted on calling it, when Suchen’s picture was printed in the county and province newspapers, alongside the pictures of five other girls, hers the only one not framed in black. The pictures had been taken the previous year, when the girls had entered middle school, the standard one-inch black-and-white photos for school registration. Suchen’s mother had immediately thrown out any newspapers that had come into their house, though Suchen later read about the incident at the town center, where newspapers were displayed in glass cases. A senseless tragedy, it was called, and she was described as a reticent and prematurely aged survivor. Her report card, which demonstrated neither excellence nor deficiency, was reprinted, a proof, along with her neighbors’ comments confirming that her family was a respectable one and she a normal child, that the tragedy had been beyond any adult’s ability to foresee. Information about the five other girls was given, too, but in a less detailed manner, as if the dead deserved respect rather than understanding.
Had it happened now, Suchen thought, she would have been sent to a psychologist, but the talk twenty-nine years ago had been whether she should be allowed to return to school or whether other options—a reform school, for instance, or an asylum for the disturbed—were more suitable. In the eyes of her neighbors and her schoolmates, Suchen had seen fear and awe, as if she carried a rare infectious disease, and in the end it was her family’s move to another province that had ended the episode. Suchen had always wondered if her siblings remembered their childhood as severed because of her; their parents, after the move, had forbidden them to talk about their old home.
When Suchen asked the waitress for her check, Walter finally picked up his. The waitress gave Suchen a sympathetic look, but did not make any comment.
He had been in town for two days, Walter said as he followed Suchen into the street. The waitress’s name was Antoinette, he continued, and she was from Boise, one of those kids who would never leave their home state. The manager was the niece of the owner, who lived in [REDACTED]. Come to think of it, Walter added, it was funny that a man would choose to live in a skiing state and open a restaurant at a ski resort in another state.
At the corner, Suchen paused, waiting for Walter to step into the crosswalk first so that she could choose another direction. Walter stopped, too, and pointed at the broad, unmarked street. “See how the streets of the wild Wild West are different from the streets of your [REDACTED]. Imagine a hundred, a hundred and fifty years ago: folks drove their horse carriages down this same street, and they were probably too busy to think about us.”
Suchen had driven along the [REDACTED] Coast for five days before turning inland. She had originally planned to cross the border into [REDACTED], where years ago, on her first trip to North [REDACTED], she’d spent an eight-hour layover on the way to Austin, [REDACTED]. She had looked up the schedules of ferries, and was certain that at this time of year night would have fallen by the time the last ferry left Horseshoe Bay. She was planning to leave her car in the parking lot, along with her suitcase and her legal papers. It would appear to be an accident at first, a woman slipping into the dark sea and never surfacing again. After a while, the police would gather the other pieces of the puzzle, the easy parts, but by then she would be beyond reach, and would not be expected to explain her decision, as had been the case years earlier, when, as the one who had lived, she was made to account not only for her own survival but also for the deaths of the other five girls.
Suchen hung the “Do Not Disturb” tag on her hotel-room door and let herself out onto the balcony, where two chairs and a small table, made to look like solid wood but with less weight, fitted snugly. She imagined a vacationing couple sitting where she was now, a bottle of wine left untouched for as long as the silence lasted. She and Lei could have ended their marriage on a balcony like this—on a mild day during the snow season, their last shared memories the white mountains close by, the ski lifts moving tirelessly and smoothly uphill and downhill, and small colorful dots sliding down the slopes: actions viewed from afar. When they had first come to [REDACTED], Lei had insisted that they be active in their local Chinese community. Later, when he had secured a position at an investment bank, he had pushed for a more mainstream 556e6974656420537461746573n life. For years, Suchen had felt as though she were standing at the edge of a beach, holding a line that flew Lei into life like a kite over the sea—or was it the other way around? But even the most trustworthy hand could eventually find it difficult to keep its grip on a taut line. Suchen had continued watching from afar while couples their age began to have children, and when Lei had joined the other overseas Chinese returning to the mother country to make their fortunes she had not accompanied him on his trips. Soon he had begun to spend more time in 4368696e61, flying back to [REDACTED] every other month, out of some sense of duty.
An autumn breeze drove a few leaves across the street. Suchen tried to imagine this sleepy town engulfed by a raging fire, but she couldn’t picture it. There were places that would never be destroyed by a fire or a tornado or an earthquake, just as there were those lucky people who escaped disasters unscathed. Once upon a time, she had been considered one of those people, by her husband and the few friends to whom she had revealed her version of the story. A boating accident, she had told Lei when he was courting her in college. A boating accident that had killed five girls aged twelve and thirteen and left another feeling forever on the verge of drowning—she could see, from the look of concern and pity in his eyes, that he had interpreted her melancholy air that way. Any man who’d had a happy childhood and an uncomplicated adolescence could mistake the initial shock of encountering the senselessness of life as a sign of falling in love, the desire to protest and protect confused with a desire to love. He had been worn out by her, Lei had said toward the end of the marriage, not without bitterness. Sixteen years was a long time for anyone to endure a wife who had neither faith nor interest in the worldliness of marital life, he said, and she wondered if, by letting her go, he had finally outgrown his youth. His next wife would certainly not stand as a trophy in the tug-of-war between Lei and fate, death, and any mystery beyond his understanding.
A man stopped on the other side of the street and waved up at Suchen. She recognized the bushy hair and the blue shirt, yet for a moment she willed her face to stay expressionless, hoping that Walter would think that he had waved at the wrong woman. But, without a trace of doubt, he crossed the empty street. Would she care for a cup of coffee, he called up. From where she stood, her elbows resting on the railing three floors above, he looked, despite his gray hair and beard, like a small child waiting for permission that he was almost certain would not be granted. She would have refused him politely had they been standing together on the ground, but, looking down at his upturned face, she felt that any excuse would be trivial. She signalled for him to wait, and when she entered the bedroom the air-conditioned atmosphere made her shiver as though she had just stepped into a pool of cold water. Suchen thought of Walter wandering the strange town, searching for a friendly face on a restaurant patio or a hotel balcony, and tried to convince herself that she had agreed to the coffee because of the helplessness that an old man could not erase from his face.
Walter took her to a café at the back of a gift shop. Apart from an idle man halfheartedly flipping through a book of local attractions, there was no one in the front of the shop, where miniature carved boats and model fish aged unwanted on the shelves. At the back of the shop, dim but for a single lamp hanging from the ceiling, there were a few unvarnished wooden tables. An old man at the counter nodded in greeting when he saw Walter. It was three o’clock in the afternoon, the best time for those in the mountains to revel in the joys of hiking and fishing before the sunshine thinned into dusk, but in the shop time seemed to be stranded, day taking forever to turn into night. The browser picked up a snow globe and shook it; when his cell phone beeped he perked up and left abruptly. Out of reflex, Suchen fumbled in her purse and found her phone. 

“Are you waiting for a call?” Walter asked.
Suchen nodded and then shook her head. For a year, when she had not yet given up trying to be the wife Lei had hoped her to be, she had let herself be absorbed into a group of women who met one Saturday a month at a local café for brunch and gossip. After a while, she began to set an alarm on her cell phone; when it rang she would apologize for having to take an important phone call and leave. She could see the suspicion in the other women’s eyes: she, a childless woman whose husband was enjoying a round of golf with their husbands—what urgency could she have but a secret love affair? If any of the women had ever mentioned this to their husbands, or if any of the husbands had mentioned it to Lei, Suchen would never know. Soon afterward, she had stopped replying to the group e-mails, and eventually the invitations had stopped coming.
The waiter came over to take their order: iced tea for Suchen, a strangely named energy drink for Walter. The waiter’s face, tanned to a dark brown and deeply wrinkled, reminded Suchen of a walnut shell, yet his eyes, even in the dim light, glimmered with alertness, like the eyes of a mountain lion. He was wearing a T-shirt that was too big for his skinny body, and his hair, grayish white, was pulled up into a bun on top of his head. When he talked, his tone was unhurried. He did not chat with Walter as a waiter would with a returning customer, yet there was something in his manner that showed friendliness.
“He spent forty-plus years in 496e646961 and only came back two years ago,” Walter said when the man had gone back behind the counter. “Grew up in [REDACTED] and was a hippie for a while, but look at him now—all you see is an old sage, something this country could never produce.”
Suchen wondered why the man, after spending almost a lifetime in 496e646961, had chosen to return. Once you knew a slice of someone’s story, you wanted to understand more, she thought. Yet when Walter walked around town gathering other people’s stories, his curiosity led him not to understand the world better but only to marvel at it.
“Are you in town just for tonight?” Walter asked.
“Yes.”
“I’m leaving tomorrow, too,” Walter said. “The event is this evening, but I came early to have a bit of time to myself. It’s a nice place when it’s not busy.”
There was not much to say to this, so Suchen agreed that indeed the town was quiet and lovely.
Walter waited a moment and then said that the hosts were a couple who produced a popular HBO show. Suchen apologized and said she did not watch TV, and Walter seemed disappointed. Not that he watched much TV, either, he said, but he thought that she, being from [REDACTED], would be familiar with these things. When Suchen did not speak, he asked her where she was going.
It was the most natural question to ask a traveller. A waitress with her hair dyed purple, in a town called Fortuna, had called Suchen “honey” and asked her where she was headed; a mechanic in a coastal town, whose name Suchen had forgotten, had changed a flat tire for her and then asked, too. [REDACTED], she had replied both times, and both times her questioners had seemed impressed by the distance she had travelled. She was not in a particular hurry, she had said when the waitress asked how many hours she had to put in each day. More of a road trip than seeing the city, she had replied unconvincingly when the mechanic, with a mild stutter, commented that he wouldn’t care for that long of a drive, even though [REDACTED] was said to be a fine city. She did not tell anyone that she spent much of her time looking out at the [REDACTED] from empty beaches, some of them narrow with coarse sand, though farther north many of the beaches were rocky, desolate in the falling dusk, when seagulls circled hungrily and waves deposited dead seaweed. These beaches made Suchen think of a ragged shoreline in Ireland or the clashing waves of the North Sea at the mouth of a Norwegian fjord. She did not know why she thought of these places, only that she would never have a chance to visit them, along with many other places on many other continents, to confirm or correct her imaginings. The morning before, she had decided to leave the coast, convincing herself that she wanted to drive across the Rockies and see the big sky in the Western states. She would always be able to find a patch of water, she told herself, but even when she was studying the rivers and lakes in the road atlas she knew she was procrastinating.
“Say, do you want to come with me to the event this evening?”
Suchen looked up quickly, but there did not seem to be a trace of guile in Walter’s face. She didn’t have the right outfit for a social gathering, Suchen said—not the best excuse but the first to occur to her.
Walter glanced at Suchen, and she knew he wanted to say that she would look just fine in her blouse and skirt; she knew, too, that he could tell she was inventing an excuse. “Is there anything that’s bothering you?” he asked in a gentle voice, leaning over his dark-green drink.
Travelling alone must have made her sink too easily into her own thoughts, she said.
“My wife died earlier this year,” Walter said. “Leukemia. We were married for thirty-five years.”
“It must be hard for you,” Suchen said, looking into her iced tea. She wondered if he had informed the townspeople he had met of his loss: the waitress at the restaurant, who was too far removed from death to be sympathetic; the old man here at the café, who, despite his kindness, would not feel sufficiently attached to this ephemeral world to acknowledge the loss as irreplaceable.
“She asked for a divorce when she knew she wouldn’t live long.”
“Why?” Suchen said, though as she spoke she realized that she might already know the answer. She imagined the wife watching Walter and herself aging, waiting to endure his death, aware that the solitude afterward would be enough of a compensation. Her illness must have come as a disappointment; life had not been lenient enough to let her keep her secret. Her desire to be alone while still alive must have ultimately trumped the guilt that came from making an incomprehensible request of a husband who would soon lose his wife.
“If only I knew the answer,” Walter said, his voice hoarse; but when Suchen looked up he was studying his palms, dry-eyed. On his ring finger was a wedding band, aged though not dulled. “My children told me that sometimes illness makes people act strangely.”
“Did you agree to divorce her?”
“No,” he said, his tone defensive. “How could I?”
“I thought that was what she wanted.”
She had asked twice in one week, Walter said, but when he had said no both times she had not mentioned it again.
Why dwell on a minor episode when death was the more lasting tragedy, Suchen wanted to ask, although she knew that long after he accepted his wife’s death he would remain tormented by her request for a divorce. When the dead departed, they took away any falsehoods that they might have allowed us to believe while alive; we who are left behind have to embark on a different life, since the dead are no longer here to help us deceive ourselves. Suchen had often wondered how she and the five girls would have turned out if the others had not drowned. They would have drifted apart, she suspected, becoming wives and mothers, and if they had ever reunited they would have been too occupied with their earthly duties to let the memory of their scheme surface. Yet through their absence the girls had made themselves more present than anyone else in Suchen’s world, and she had lived not only for herself but for their unconsumed lives: when she sat in a movie theatre on a weekday afternoon, the tears she shed were not for the romance on the screen but for a love story that might have broken the heart of one of the girls; when she reluctantly mingled with strangers at a party, she was convincing the girls that they had not missed much in this life; at the farmers’ market, she picked up fruits with exotic names and fragrances because the girls had not heard of or tasted them in their small home town; when she was having sex with Lei, she watched them watch him with pity in their eyes, because only they knew that he would never be able to touch her the way their deaths had touched her. “You should feel lucky you are the one alive,” Suchen said. “There are many things in life that are stranger than death.”
Walter looked up, stung, Suchen thought, by the cruelty of her words. She unfolded her white paper napkin and began to dab her straw on it, leaving faint tea-colored dots. “When I was thirteen, five friends and I decided to commit suicide together,” she said, and, without meeting Walter’s eyes, she shook her head. “You want to ask why. Everyone did. The truth is I could not answer that question at the time and I still can’t answer it. All I can tell you is that it was not an impulsive action. We talked and we planned and we carried it out almost to the end.”
Almost: Suchen watched Walter flinch at the word and then let hope flicker in his eyes. A scheme like theirs could have failed easily. They could have stopped it at any moment: When they had looked in the almanac to choose the date (there was no day described as good for killing oneself, so they had settled for a day on which it was good to take a journey). Or when they had pooled their allowances to buy an expensive bottle of liquor and hidden it in the tall weeds on the far shore of the reservoir the day before the chosen date. The field had been awash with May sunshine when they set out after lunch, their schoolmates returning to classes while they, buoyant in their truancy, gathered nameless blue and white flowers that they later scattered carelessly near the dock. An adult bicycling on his way out of town could have yelled at them from the road, asking why they were not in school. Uncle Liang, the town’s hermit, who lived in a shack by the reservoir, could have woken from his midday nap early and caught the young thieves clumsily rowing his boat into the open water.
They had taken turns rowing in pairs until they were out of immediate sight of the town and the road, and when they stopped, the boat rocked slightly under their shifting weight, the water almost even with the rim. For a while they sat, and Suchen remembered the splash of a fish breaking the surface of the water, and two egrets taking off with unhurried elegance, one after the other. The girls could have decided to row back and face the questions from their parents and teachers, spending an extra Saturday afternoon in school for their misdemeanor; such a possibility, however, had not occurred to Suchen, and if any of the other girls had thought of it they hadn’t brought it up. They had giggled as they divided the liquor among six identical enamel cups, their school registration numbers printed in red on the bottoms, and when they had encouraged one another to drink they’d done so with laughter and coughing and, later, tears. Why, her parents had asked her when it was all over; so had the parents of the five girls, wishing her dead, no doubt, so that their own daughters could be revived; the schoolteachers and the reporters had asked, and now, too, sitting across from her, a man whom she barely knew. “Why?” Walter said, his voice faraway, as if coming to her in a dream. “What happened?”
“The other five girls drowned,” Suchen said. She did not say that none of them had known how to swim; nor did she say that after they had swallowed the liquor they had cried, not out of fear or regret but because there was nothing left, by then, for them to do. When they had stepped into the water, the boat had overturned, and the chaos afterward seemed to last only a few seconds—not much of a chaos, because Suchen did not remember any of her friends making a noise or struggling. For years, she had tried in vain to make sense of that moment of farewell, but all she could recall was two heads bobbing before vanishing under the boat, the linked arms of two other friends, and a wave from Meimei, the youngest of the six, as she sank beneath the surface. Suchen never understood what had driven her to grasp the oar at the last moment. The water had been cold, her teeth had chattered, but her hands had not let go of the oar—perhaps she had been a true coward, or perhaps she had been overcome by animal instinct, hanging on to life blindly. We had to, she had replied when her questioners would not leave her alone, although no one had understood her. At the border of life and death, said a folktale, there was a river called the River of Forgetting, and on the bridge an old woman called Mrs. Dream offered tea to travellers; once you drank her tea and crossed the bridge, you would forget everything on this side of the world. Many times, in the five weeks during which their talk had gone from a hazy idea to a concrete plan, they had promised one another that they would not drink Mrs. Dream’s tea. They would travel together in the next world as they had in this world, their love and understanding of one another free from families and other earthly burdens.
“But why? Why did six young girls want to do a crazy thing like that?” Walter said, the gentle concern in his eyes replaced by an angry and disapproving look.
“If only I knew the answer,” Suchen said. Afterward, while the girls’ parents and teachers groped for any possible explanation—divorced parents for one of the girls; an older sister’s failed affair that had ended with the birth of an illegitimate baby; difficult schoolwork; the unhealthy influence of cheap romance novels; hormones and adolescent mood swings—Suchen had remained contemptuously silent, the last warrior standing between the world and her felled comrades.
Walter fidgeted in his seat, unable to find the right words for his curiosity—or perhaps he was simply eager to end the conversation. People would have shaken their heads in pity had one young girl decided to kill herself, but when six girls took a journey like that together people felt threatened and rejected by a bond they could not understand. Suchen imagined what Lei would have said had she told him the truth; over the years, she had thought of making the confession, thinking that a man who shared his life with her deserved more than a lie, more than silence. But how could she have explained to him that she had never guessed the meaning of Meimei’s wave, that she would never know if Meimei had been beckoning her to come along on a joyous journey or begging her, the last one afloat, to save her? Lei had insisted that a new life in a new country—marriage, friendship, children—would save her from her despair, but why would she want to be saved when her friends and their memories would become the casualties of her battle to live on?
Suchen looked up at the afternoon sunshine, framed by the rectangular door, waiting to claim Walter and herself. Perhaps Walter would invite her once more to join him for the evening; perhaps she would say yes, another procrastination, like the detour from the coast. When they parted, both would feel vaguely comforted, he by the momentary warmth he had offered another human being whose senseless tragedy had eclipsed his bewilderment, she by the knowledge that it had been good of her to let Lei go, that he would not become an old man seeking companionship among the strangers in the world. 

