THE LOWER RIVER
By Paul Theroux

Even in his best days in Medford, running the family clothing store, Altman had always imagined that he would return to Africa, to the Lower River. It had been his Eden, for those four years he had spent in a village called Malabo as a young man. Now, after nearly forty years, he was on his way back. The decades in between seemed almost a digression: the business, the marriage, the children. Altman’s Store for Men had closed, the marriage had failed, Altman’s children were grown, absent, living their lives. A little over sixty, he was alone again. He had enough money to see him into his old age, yet he wanted more than that. No one needed him in Medford, and he wondered if the people of Malabo might still remember what he had done there.
The Lower River was the southernmost region of the southern province of Malawi, the poorest part of a poor country, home of the Sena people. The Sena were small, slender, delicate, violent only when they were bingeing. A neglected tribe, they were despised by those who didn’t know them, were associated with squalor, cruelty, and incompetence. With superstition, too. They lived in a web of beliefs, the Lower River thick with spirits—mfiti—most of them vindictive spectres of the dead, restless in their malevolence. Nothing happened without a reason. A tree fell for a reason, a thatched roof caught fire for a reason—because someone wished it alight. Disease, disfigurement, a bad harvest, a broken bone, a stillborn infant: all were caused by human agency—the witch in the next hut or the next village, or the mfiti representing an avenging soul.
Altman had studied the all-night Nyau dance, which was performed naked, with a fetish mask and drumming. Fluent in the Sena language, he had been one of those volunteer teachers whom the other Americans muttered about with respect tinged with satire, because they never saw him, and no one, not even other Africans, wanted to go to the Lower River. In his first year, village life had seemed a struggle to Altman. The shop at the boma sold Sunlight Soap, Koo ketchup, cooking oil, bottles of Lion Lager, single cigarettes, loose tobacco and tea. But few people had more than a handful of tickeys, the thin gray threepence coins that bought two cigarettes. The market stalls sold vegetables and rice, smoked fish and cassava. Not much of anything, but in the time he lived there Altman had decided that you didn’t need any more than that.
After a year, he had understood the inflections of the weather. It was not the stifling, squalid place of its reputation; it was dense and subtle. The heat enlivened him. The smells were of woodsmoke and stagnation and the perfume of the water hyacinths in the river, sweetish with decay, the sun-heated dust like talcum.
Teaching at the primary school that he’d helped to build, Altman had become popular in the district, and when a member of Parliament paid a visit to Nsanje he asked to meet Altman. Altman served as a counsellor, he wrote letters for the villagers, he sent messages, he read letters for those villagers who couldn’t read, whispering the words for the sake of privacy. All the languages in the region were written phonetically, so he could convey the meaning even when he had no idea what was written on the torn-out copybook page.
For the Sena people, Altman had been the mzungu, the white man. His term was two years. He had stayed four—a record for Malabo. In this district of small huts and barefoot people and unpaved roads—a world made out of mud—he had been content. The Lower River had become the measure of his happiness. Malabo had remained in his mind in the way that the notion of home might persist in someone else’s. When all hope is lost and everything is up the wall, he often thought, reassuring himself, I can always go back.
Malawi, these days, was advertised as a vacation destination, with hotels at the lake in the north and even some game parks. Like many other resort areas in Africa, it was a country where local people starved and the few tourists ate well and were fussed over.
Even before his plane touched down, Altman knew that he had made the right decision. He relaxed, smiling as he looked out the window at the low empty hills, the creases of green in the landscape which marked the foliage along rivers and creeks, the villages made visible by the smoke rising from cooking fires. From the air, the place looked just as he had left it, as a man of twenty-three. Where else could you go on earth and say that?
When the immigration officer asked him his reason for being in the country, Altman spoke the sentence he had rehearsed: “Ndi kupita ku Lower River.”
The man said, “What am I hearing?” and reached across his desk to shake Altman’s hand. “And myself I have never been there, Father.”
Altman took a domestic flight that was leaving later in the day for Blantyre, and stayed the night at the Mount Soche Hotel. He marvelled at the crowded dirty city. Assuming that he would be in Malabo for a week or so, he used his credit card at Barclays Bank to make a cash withdrawal. The clerk, a young man in a shirt and tie, counted the notes twice, squared the pile, and snapped a rubber band around it.
“Be careful, sir,” the clerk said, squeezing the fat envelope under the glass window.
Almost as a rebuke, Altman said, “I used to live here. I was here at Independence. The Lower River.”
The hotel driver, summoned from the parking lot to the travel desk in the lobby, laughed when Altman said that he wanted to visit Nsanje. Altman had mentioned the district, because the man would never have heard of Malabo. The sunglasses over the driver’s smooth jut-jawed face gave him a cricket’s profile. He smiled greedily at Altman’s watch. Altman knew that his lingering gaze of admiration was like a plea.
“Let’s leave at seven.”
“Eight will be best. African time. No worry, be happy.”
“Seven,” Altman said, without a smile, and the man turned deferential—respectful, with a slight jerkiness of fear in his face. “And no smoking in the car.”
The farther they got from town the flimsier and more temporary the buildings became, from the solid terraces of shops fronting onto storm drains to tile-roofed bungalows, tin-roofed shacks, and plastered huts thatched with straw, the skeletal sticks of the frames showing through the crumbled mud. And then the road grew worse, just a strip of broken paving in a gully between two slopes in some places. On the hillsides were stumps of trees that had been cut down, forests stripped by people foraging for fuel: the Africa of settlement and people, not of animals.
But beyond Chiromo, in the southern province, nearing the Lower River, where the villages were fewer, he smiled at the disorder, the tall grass, the odor of dust and smoke. It was as it had been—too flat and featureless to photograph, but powerful, his first experience of a world that was ancient in its simplicities.
“You like,” the driver said, seeing Altman’s face in the rearview mirror.
Then they were throwing up whitish dust, following the course of the river’s west bank, heading straight into the sun. By early afternoon, they were passing a row of small shops in Nsanje.
“Keep going,” Altman said.
“You said Nsanje. This is the boma.”
“The village I want is farther on.”
“That is extra charge.”
“Stop the car,” Altman said. The driver was so rattled that he kept going. “Stop the car—I’ll walk.”
“It is too far, bwana,” the driver said, with that same twitching fear in his face.
“I know where we are,” Altman said. “Don’t charge me extra.”
And down the road two miles, at Magwero, Altman signalled for him to stop, and the driver said, “Iwe,” in the familiar form—“You!” Then he saw the men sitting under the tree, heard them call out, and said, “They are waiting for you.”
“Yes,” Altman said, but he knew better. This was the usual place in Magwero for men to sit, on logs under a mango tree. Seeing a mzungu, they had shouted a greeting.
Out of the car, lighting a cigarette, the driver seemed uneasy, eager to leave. “What time you coming back, bwana?”
The air was so still his smoke clung to his face.
“You can go,” Altman said.
A great soft cloud of white dust raised by the departing car closed over it as it rocked in the wheel ruts of the narrow road. Altman found the departure a strange breach of etiquette. The man should have lingered a little, accepted some bananas or a cup of tea, handed out a cigarette or two.
“Welcome, Father,” one of the men said, rising from the log.
This man gave his name as Maso, and introduced the man next to him as Magongo. Altman said that he had known their families long ago.
They knew of the mzungu at Malabo, they said. They had heard stories about him.
Altman said, “Maybe it was someone else.”
“There was only one mzungu at Malabo!” Magongo said. He called to a boy sitting against a bicycle, holding Altman’s duffelbag, and told him to hurry to Malabo. “Tell Manyenga the American is here.”
Then Maso led him through the low spreading trees and across the hard-packed dirt of a courtyard that was being swept by a small girl. They sat before a hut and drank milky tea, and as they talked of the rains, the height of the river, their children, Altman looked around and marvelled at the compact village and the sheltering trees, the way the sunlight speckled the ground.
He was dozing when a motorcycle roared into the clearing.
“Manyenga,” one of the men said.
The man parked his bike and approached Altman, saying, “The boy on the njinga said, ‘The American is here,’ and I said, ‘I am knowing him. My grandfather was his friend.’ Welcome, welcome.”
And there raced through Altman a lightness, a slackening in his flesh, of relief, of gratitude. He felt important; they knew him. He wished that someone he knew back in the [REDACTED] could have witnessed this, the tableau of his sitting among the elders in a remote village on the Lower River.
Now the welcome was extended to Manyenga: more tea, some smoke-dried fish, and praise for Altman, the long-ago mzungu of their elders’ stories.
“I was a small boy when I first saw you,” one of the men said. He was old, toothless, in a tattered shirt, with reddened eyes, his skin shiny and loose like a reptile’s.
“I never saw this man before,” Manyenga said. “My grandfather, he was the friend.”
They talked in this congenial way, in English, until finally Manyenga got up and began to thank the men elaborately, taking their hands in his. Altman knew that it was time to go.
“What do you have in the pipeline?” Manyenga asked.
Altman smiled at the expression. “Nothing special. Just to see Malabo.”
“I can arrange, Father.”
The duffelbag was tied to the rear carrier of the motorbike, and he swung his leg over and sat behind Manyenga. They travelled under the shade trees the short distance to the main road and then, a few miles south, raising dust, took the turnoff, the back road to Lutwe, which ran parallel to the Mozambique border, a mere footpath in Altman’s time. After about eight miles—Altman knew that it was more than a two-hour walk back to the main road—Manyenga slowed the bike and plunged into the bush, not a road, hardly a track, just an opening in the high grass that led to a clearing, a scattering of huts, the big upright baskets on legs which were granaries, the crisscrossed paths that marked the edge of Malabo. 
Where the trees were greenest, on the banks of the Nyamihutu, a woman was beating a blue blanket suspended on a line. Near her, a girl swept the smooth earth with a straw broom.
Manyenga pulled up at a hut. He said, “This is your home, Father.”
“I can stay only a few days,” Altman said.
“You are welcome, Father.”
The woman and the girl greeted them by falling to their knees and calling out, and children and older boys from the other huts came running. The villagers gathered, hanging back. He saw that they were afraid of him—some of the older ones were terrified. Their anxious faces made him self-conscious. He wanted to reassure them. He would have handed out money, except that he knew it would create a mob scene. He smiled and, in a chiefly gesture, saluted them.
“My other wife,” Manyenga said of a woman wincing at Altman’s raised hand. “She was married to my brother.”
“And who’s this?” Altman asked.
The girl, too shy to speak, twisted her cloth wrapper in her fingers.
“Zizi,” Manyenga said, and hearing her name the girl covered her face. “My brother’s child. He died some two years ago.”
Seeing that the girl had gone shy, one of the small boys ambled near her, limping and chattering. The boy had twisted fingers and sores on his legs and a battered face, flaky patches of scurf where hair was missing from his head. He could have been the victim of a fight, but Altman guessed that he was epileptic, with head wounds from continually falling to the ground—and now Altman saw that he was not a boy at all but a disfigured dwarf, boy-sized, in rags, who could have been any age.
“Moni, moni,” Altman said, greeting the dwarf, trying to distract him from teasing the girl. And rummaging in his duffel he found some candy that he’d bought at the hotel in Blantyre. “Mankhwala,” he said—medicine.
The dwarf laughed and ate it, licking his fingers, then walked away unsteadily, giggling because the others were laughing at him and calling out an English word.
“What are they saying?”
“His name, Snowdon.”
Though the girl did not look up again, Altman could see that she was relieved the dwarf had forgotten her.
“You can stay here, Father,” Manyenga said. “The roof is bad”—it was thatch, the bundles loosened—“because we had so many challenges. But it’s clean enough. Rest your body. My wife will bring water for your bath. Tonight we will kill a chicken. We can discuss your program.”
 “My program?”
“Your agenda, Father.”
It was Zizi who brought the water in a basin, with a small chip of soap, and after Altman had washed he lay on the string bed and let down the mosquito net that hung like a bridal veil, and listened to the boys’ raised voices in the clearing. Where else in the world could you arrive unannounced and be welcomed on sight?
That evening, Altman distributed the presents he’d brought—the watch he gave to Manyenga, a shawl he gave to the senior wife, a pocketknife to the junior wife, some books for the children.
Then the women served the food—the chicken that had been grilling on the fire, and roasted corncobs, a bowl of nsima and stewed greens, a plate of dried fish. “Kachasu,” Manyenga said, uncorking a bottle. He poured Altman a glass of banana gin, and they toasted each other.
The children sat a little distance away; some women were standing, holding babies in cloth slings.
While Manyenga was talking, in English and Sena, Altman slipped to the ground, resting his head against his chair. He must have dozed off, because in a sudden dream he heard a word that he recognized: atopa—tired.
He was helped to his feet. Accompanied by someone steering him with lantern light, saying nothing, he tottered to his hut and crawled under the mosquito net into his string bed, his flesh inert, like clay.
He woke before sunrise, as a cock’scrow tore at the silence and the darkness. He could not remember ever having slept so soundly: blind and deaf, a whole night with his mouth open, drawing shallow breaths. He listened to his compact shortwave radio until it was light, and then he walked the length of the village through the scrub. In the courtyards of most of the huts, crouching women fanned the glowing embers of cooking fires. Altman looked into the woven barrels of the granaries and was glad to see that they were full of drying corncobs. He saw the schoolhouse in the distance; he would save it for the afternoon. He continued walking to the road, and past it, to the stream. He saw someone bathing and quickly withdrew—it was Zizi, a dark dripping stick figure. Then he returned to his hut. He shaved with his battery-powered razor and wrote some notes in his journal. He unpacked his duffelbag, sorted his clothes, and hung up the empty bag to keep it away from rats—he saw that there were droppings on the floor from rats nesting in the thatched roof. Then he sat and finished the paperback he’d brought to read.
All this and it was not yet seven- thirty. He smiled, thinking of the day that stretched ahead—the long, over-bright day of village somnolence, supine in its stillness, under trails of woodsmoke and the chirping of birds.
Announcing himself, calling out, “Kodi, kodi!” Manyenga visited after eight and invited Altman to breakfast. Now Altman saw how young he was, still in his twenties, jaunty in a baseball cap and a blue shirt.
“You were going about early,” Manyenga said.
Someone had noticed him; now, an hour later, everyone knew.
They were standing before the hut, Manyenga frowning at the roof.
“But the roof must be replaced. I want to get an iron roof for you, but—eh! eh!”
Altman knew that the grunt meant money.
“What about fixing the thatch? There’s plenty of grass.”
“The people who are making the thatch are all dead. Even the women. Even myself I am not knowing. We are needing an intervention.”
Altman smiled at the clumsiness of the request on his first morning. Usually “we are needing” came later. But Altman was not dismayed; he was more at ease knowing that Manyenga was unsubtle.
He said, “We can talk about it.”
“I’m going to the boma this morning. Maybe they are having some iron sheets.” He mumbled, seeming to search for more words. “It’s a big priority.”
Manyenga, he knew, had already mentally bought the iron sheets for the roof, kept the change, and perhaps put aside the scraps to sell or trade. It remained only for the transaction to take place, for Altman to hand over the money.
“I have provided this table on the khonde, for your projects”— it was at the corner of the veranda. Altman hadn’t noticed it. “You can take your breakfast here. I will find you later, Father.”
The girl Zizi brought the basin again, and watched him as he washed his face and brushed his teeth. Then she returned with a plate of steamed nsima, a puddle of oil in the center, and a bowl of vegetables in gravy and some tea. She stood in the shade. He spoke to her but she averted her eyes, perhaps ashamed at his having seen her bathing in the stream.
As he was eating, Altman saw a creeping shadow come to rest: the bruised dwarf, Snowdon, hunkered down by the veranda, rocking on his stumpy feet. He was sad, his ugly face lopsided as though in pain, helplessly small, his wounds bright with infection.
Altman gave him some nsima. He crammed the whole lump into his mouth, crumbs on his fingers and cheeks, and chewed it with his mouth open.
“Snowdon,” Altman said.
Hearing his name, the dwarf opened his mouth wide in satisfaction, showing Altman the half-chewed food on his purplish, pitted tongue.
Later in the morning, Altman walked to the maize patch. He picked up a hoe and began chopping the dry earth with it, scraping the weeds away. Two older boys saw him and laughed. He knew why: hoeing was women’s work.
Altman, hacking near some dry shucks, startled a snake. Deftly, he pinned its head down with the hoe blade, pressing it, then picked it up, and, as he pinched it just behind its head, it wrapped his arm with the whole coil of its whipping body.
“Kalikukuti,” he said. A twig snake, a juvenile, hardly two feet long.
The two boys stepped back, murmuring, “Njoka.” Altman stepped out of the maize patch—the boys ran, stamping in the dust. The villagers feared snakes, he knew; encountering a snake at the start of a journey, a Sena traveller returned home. Because of these fears, in his years here Altman had developed an interest, to set himself apart, so that he would be known as something more than a mzungu. He had kept some snakes in baskets, and fed them with lizards and grasshoppers and mice, and he had released them in places where they’d be safe and breed.
In the afternoon, he walked again to the stream, retracing his steps of the morning—perhaps this was the beginning of a routine? All the while, he was followed by small skinny children—a village of children, it seemed, like a settlement in a folktale. One said, “Mankhwala”—medicine—and the rest chimed in. They were asking for candy.
“Tomorrow,” Altman said. He repeated it in Sena: “Mawa.” Seeing them laughing, he asked if they knew English.
They shyly admitted no.
“Do you go to school?”
“No school!”
He had intended to visit the school that afternoon, but now the light was fading. Night came quickly; he’d see it tomorrow. As he was watching the last long orangey tatters of the sunset, Manyenga called out “Father!” for the evening meal.
Manyenga sat with him and, in a tone meant to reassure him, said, “I have ordered the roof for your hut.”
“How much?”
“Very cheap. I am knowing this man. His father remembers you too much. Maybe he was your student. He gave me a good price. He knows we are partnering.”
Altman said in Sena, “Lots of money?”
“No, Father. Not at all. One sheet for four thousand kwacha only.” That was forty dollars.
“How many sheets do you need?”
Manyenga didn’t answer. Altman knew the man was making a complex calculation, thinking of numbers and discarding them. At last he said, “Six,” in the local way, sick-ees.
“Say five.”
The next day was the same: the walk, the dwarf at breakfast, the riverbank, a nap, another walk, writing notes, then dinner at Manyenga’s, more talk of money, and bed. He remembered his first weeks here long ago—the full days of work, the hot nights by lantern light grading students’ exercise books—and he grew sad, admiring his younger hopeful self.
“I want to see the school,” he said to Manyenga on the third day, seeing him straddling his motorcycle.
“It is finished, Father.”
“Maybe I could get it fixed up.”
Manyenga considered this, chewing his lips, his face twisting in thought. He propped his bike on the kickstand and walked with Altman beyond the clearing, through the tall grass, to the school. Head-high bushes had grown up around the buildings. The roof of the classroom block was broken—only brittle pieces remaining. Weeds grew in the eaves. The windows, too, were broken. The office was empty, though it showed signs of having been lived in—mats and quilts twisted on the floor, scorch marks on the walls.
“How long has it been like this?”
“I am not knowing,” Manyenga said, truly bewildered.
“Didn’t you go to school here?”
“I was schooling at Chimombo, near the boma. I completed my school certificate in Blantyre.”
“But you’ve done well. And you’re still young.”
“Yes, Father.”
Altman was thinking of the huts, the bike, the two wives.
“I was a driver for some years,” Manyenga said. He mentioned the name of a prominent charity.
Now Altman understood those words he kept using—“agenda,” “pipeline,” “program.” “Why didn’t you keep working for them?” 

“They were cheeky. They were falsely accusing me. They couldn’t cope at all with our customs. Not like you, Father.”
Altman said, “Will you help fix the school?”
“I can send some chaps.”
This wasn’t the answer that Altman was hoping for, but he said, “O.K.,” and, looking again at the ruin, he quoted a Sena proverb: “Slowly, slowly makes a bundle.”
He was slashing at the weeds with a hacker the next day when four boys arrived, creeping through the tall grass, parting the blades with their outstretched hands. They were no more than fifteen or so, very thin, wearing rags for shirts and tattered trousers.
“The nduna sent us.”
So Manyenga was a chief.
“This was a school, long ago,” Altman said.
“It is nothing now,” one of the boys said.
“But we can fix it. Then Malabo will have a school.”
They were watching shyly, silently, but breathing shallowly in a way that showed that they were paying attention.
“Who are your parents? Maybe I knew them.”
They didn’t reply. They seemed to grow shyer.
“No father, no mother,” one said.
“They were sick,” another, the tallest boy, said, drawing out the Sena word. He chopped with the flat of his hand. “They died.”
“What about relatives?”
“We live down there”—and the boy squinted into the sun.
“How many altogether?”
The boy flashed ten fingers at Altman. “Small and big.”
Altman was still holding the hacker, standing among the tall weeds and the overhanging bushes he had slashed.
“Help me,” he said.
“We can try,” the tall boy said. He took the knife from Altman. Another boy grasped a spare panga from a stump. And they whacked at the weeds, while Altman went through the classrooms to examine the wreckage. He heard the boys muttering and was gladdened by the sound. He smelled snakes, the hot eggy stink of a decayed nest in a corner of the room.
He stripped a narrow tree limb of its twigs, and then poked with it, startling the snake he knew was there, a black-lipped mamba. He prodded it, let it whip and coil, then quickly snatched it, keeping its frothy mouth just above his fist. Then he brought it outside to show the boys, a trophy they’d remember.
“Mamba,” he said. “Mbadza.”
But the boys were gone, and, not only that, they’d taken the two knives.
“They are useless,” Manyenga said later. “I will get the pangas for you.” He thought a moment. “Did you give them money?”
Altman said no.
Manyenga relaxed, and smiled. “Ah,” he said, as though to convey, “What did you expect?”
Without the boys, Altman went back to the school and slashed at the weeds and tried to tidy the classrooms. Zizi helped with her straw broom; Snowdon watched, flicking at the flies that settled on his sores. Altman knew that Zizi was being offered to him, that all he needed to say was “Go in my hut,” and she would obey. She was tall for a Sena girl, with a shaved head and skinny fingers, bony wrists, small breasts, long legs with wide feet. Those feet and the way she sometimes stood reminded him of a waterbird—a heron, perhaps. With stylish clothes she could have passed for the sort of model he’d seen in magazines; she had the starved angularity of high fashion.
Altman kept working at the margins of the school, conspicuously, to attract attention, and perhaps shame others into helping. But no one came, except sometimes a woman looking for firewood, taking the kindling he made.
And then one night he was roused by drumming. The flames of the ceremonial bonfire flickered on his walls. They were doing the Nyau dance—he recognized the syncopation. An image was always carried by the witch doctor, or worn as a mask. He crept out of his hut, keeping himself hidden. The moon was bright enough to see by—perhaps the full moon was the reason for the dance. The dancers and drummers surrounded the witch doctor, whose mask was grotesque and—the long nose, the animal hair, the white skin—quite obviously represented Altman’s face.
Hardly seven, and the morning sun slanting through the twiggy trees had filled the clearing at Malabo with unbreathable humidity, like an invisible smothering presence. Squinting into the distance, Altman saw a shimmering spectral blob in the heat, coming closer, resolving itself into two figures, large and small, Manyenga and a burdened girl hurrying behind him.
“Nduna,” Altman said.
Manyenga smiled, seeing Altman sitting as usual at his table on the narrow veranda, Zizi squatting on her heels near him, the dwarf crouching a little distance away by a low bush. His stare made Altman self-conscious. The anxiety, the calculation, the reticence approaching fear that he’d noticed in the young man on his arrival were gone. Now Manyenga gazed directly at him, almost in defiance. He said, “But, eh, you are being a chief as well, Father.”
ADVERTISEMENT
Altman saw himself through Manyenga’s eyes: an old mzungu, attended by a skinny girl and a dwarf, a portrait of inaction, like a ruined chief on a rickety throne. He’d stopped shaving, his clothes were stained. He had to get away, he realized, if only to Blantyre, to collect his thoughts and decide on his next move. Nothing had gone quite the way he’d imagined it. He had been cheated out of the money for the roofing; he was being overcharged for room and board; no one was interested in the school.
“You were watching us at the Nyau dance,” Manyenga said, gesturing to the girl to set down the bowl of porridge and the mug of milky tea she was carrying. It was a breach of etiquette, bordering on taboo, for an outsider to observe the Nyau dance. But Manyenga was nodding, with a slyly satisfied face—a smile that was not a smile. “We were celebrating you,” he said. “We were thanking you, Father.”
Altman said, in Sena, “A ghost doesn’t miss a funeral”—a proverb he’d learned long ago, one he’d often quoted in Medford.
“You are knowing so much, Father.”
Altman knew better: they were trying to diminish his power. He said, “I have to go to Blantyre today.” He took another breath, because his chest was tight from the heat, the scrutiny of the younger man. “I’ll need a lift to the boma.”
“As you are wishing, Father,” Manyenga said.
“I need to withdraw some money from the bank. I’m almost out of cash.”
Instead of looking greedy and grateful, Manyenga frowned, but he lifted his hands in an accommodating gesture, as if to say, “Anything for you.”
They left on the motorcycle later in the morning. Altman, sitting behind Manyenga, had his passport and all his important papers with him. Not fifty yards into the journey, even before they had reached the road, Manyenga swerved and screamed, “Njoka!”
Altman twisted around, looking for the snake, lost his balance, and fell, bruising his side. Winded, he lay in the dust, wondering if he had broken any ribs.
“We cannot go,” Manyenga said, righting the bike, helping Altman from the ground.
His brow was heavy, his face dark with fear—Altman knew of the prohibition against travelling after a snake has crossed your path. Manyenga’s mood had changed from agreeable to anxious.
“I didn’t see the snake.”
“It was so big, Father! A green mamba,” Manyenga said. “We must obey.”
Altman was too bruised to argue. He limped back to his hut, and there he sat, wondering how to overcome this man. He suspected that this was a ruse. Realizing that he’d been forced to lie to Manyenga made him uneasy; the lie told him that he was afraid to tell the truth.
He felt in his duffelbag for his pouch of money. He found the envelope and saw that some of it was missing—and he laughed, mocking his own stupidity. That was why Manyenga had reacted the way he had. He knew that Altman had money, that he was lying.
That night the Nyau was danced again. Altman’s head throbbed. The thump of the drums echoed in his skull. He had a fever—he knew malaria, the flu-like symptoms, the headache. He found his bottle of chloroquine and, unable to locate his water jug, chewed three tablets and lay in his string bed, the drums beating against his eyes and ears, his sore body, his sore head.
Then days and nights were one: he did not know how long he lay there, shivering with chills, gasping in the heat, his heart fluttering. He heard a wild commotion, screeching, drumming, the ululating of frenzied women. His skin was sensitive to the sheet. Even the slightest brush of the mosquito net caused him discomfort. He suffered most when the sunlight shot through the windows of the hut and caught him on the face, and in the night his teeth chattered; even though he was wrapped in a blanket, he could not get warm.
When, before dawn one day, the fever eased, he saw everything more clearly; the sickness had stripped him of sentiment. He understood the foolishness of his visit. He had come expecting to be welcomed; he had wanted to contribute something to the village again. But no one was interested. The people of Malabo were much worse off now than when he had come before, and more cynical, shrewder, as a result.
In his sickbed, he felt a sense of resolve. He’d made a mistake. As soon as he was feeling better, he’d go home. He saw the danger of being sick in this remote village. His dreams were fractured and irrational; ugly beaked birds figured in them, crowds of noisy people, great heat.
Zizi brought him the tea and bananas he asked for, but it was an effort for him to swallow. It consoled him to see her and the dwarf right outside, their heads silhouetted at the window.
At last he was able to stand, to eat a little porridge.
“I’m going,” he said, and was not sure whether he was speaking in Sena or English. “Get the chief.”
Manyenga was soon striding across the brightness of the clearing, mopping his head, seeming relieved that Altman had recovered. Altman stood in the shade of the veranda, swaying slightly.
“I need to drink,” Altman said. “Bring me a kettle of hot water for tea.”
Manyenga, suddenly fierce-faced, ordered Zizi to fetch the kettle. And when she was gone he said, “She likes you too much, Father.”
“She’s your daughter?” Altman said.
“My brother’s child. He died of the eddsi. You know our custom. I had to take my brother’s widow as my wife, also his children.”
“She’s what—fifteen, sixteen?”
“Sixteen-something. When you were sick with the fever, she was so sorry.”
“She should be in school.”
“The school fees,” Manyenga said. “That is the badness.”
Then Altman remembered. In a croaky voice, he said, “I heard noise when I was sick. What was the noise?”
“Kufafaniza imfa. A man died. His goods were taken. His house destroyed.”
“You erased his death.”
“You are so clever, Father. You are knowing so much about our customs, eh-eh.”
Altman said, “I have to go home.”
“This is your home, Father.”
Altman shivered, as he had during the worst of his sickness.
Manyenga said, “I have a very big question to ask you.”
“Go ahead,” Altman said. “Ask me.”
“Not now. At the proper time. We will have a feast tomorrow. Then”—and he smiled and spread his arms, meaning, it seemed, that all would be clear.
Remembering that his stash of money had been raided, Altman went to the school the next day and poked around for another snake. He found a small puff adder and brought it back to his hut. He eased it into a basket, and put his envelope of money into the basket with it, making sure that Zizi and the dwarf saw what he was doing. The snake was not especially venomous, but to the villagers it was deadly. 
“Welcome, Father,” Manyenga said at the feast that night, showing him to a chair. The other men and boys were seated on the ground, a few on woven mats. A piece of meat turned on a spit, and Manyenga’s elder wife was stirring a large tin pot.
Altman picked at the shreds of meat on his plate and listened to Manyenga praise him.
“Now, Father”—and Manyenga called one of the boys over. “This young chap is going to [REDACTED] for work.”
“Tsalani bwino,” Altman said, as a formal farewell.
“But he is needing ndalama,” Manyenga said.
The boy stood straight, bug-eyed with fear in the firelight, a scarecrow in his too-big shirt and torn trousers, his bony wrists pressed against his sides.
Altman nodded, hoping to appear noncommittal, but he knew that they were masterly at discerning the nuances of gesture; even blinks or a way of breathing revealed a state of mind. It was not sorcery; they were illiterate, and so they were hyper-alert in every other sense.
And, because they saw that he had been moved by the sight of the boy standing there, they refilled his glass with kachasu and toasted him. Later, the women sang, clapping their hands, and danced before him, standing in a line. He understood the words—“Our father, our chief, our mzungu in Malabo.” Their skin shone with perspiration, and dust clung to it, creating a weird plastery cosmetic. Their growly harmonizing resonated in the pit of his stomach, and he could distinguish Zizi’s voice from the others; it stirred something in him—a purring within him that answered her.
On any other night he would have excused himself and crept across the clearing to his hut, but now he was the guest of honor. He called to the boy, motioning him to his side. He gave the boy some money, folded under his fingers.
Everyone saw. Manyenga said, “You are our chief, dear Father.”
Now the only thought in his mind was the urgency of leaving. He tore a page from his notebook and wrote a message to the consulate in Blantyre, stating that he was unwell and needed to talk to the consul. He found an envelope. Stepping off the veranda of his hut with the letter in his hand, he heard a whistle.
The clean white envelope, brilliant in the sunlight, had been spotted from forty yards away.
“Kalata,” Manyenga said, materializing on the path, asserting himself with the force of his voice. “We will post the kalata for you.”
“I can do it.”
“The chief does not post letters. His people carry out the workload. They brush the glue on the stamps. Give it, my friend!”
Feeling feeble, Altman handed it over. He knew that it would never be sent.
He had abandoned any idea of improving the village. The school would remain a shell, a nest of snakes. The villagers would subsist; the weaker ones would die. He sat like them, breathing the shade.
One day he said at breakfast, “I’m going to pick some bananas”—using that as an excuse to take a stroll, to feel less trapped. Though he had not spoken to anyone in particular, his words reached Manyenga, who confronted him.
“The chief cannot pick bananas! You must not do so, Father. Your people will fetch them.”
So they waited on him, the whole village having been enlisted to help. They were no longer afraid of him. He would rise from his chair on the veranda and as soon as he stepped into the clearing he’d hear a sharp whistle that signalled “He’s moving.”
He was mocked by the memory of the gratitude he’d felt on the first day. And he saw that he was changed, almost a different man. A residue of malarial blood remained in his veins. Still unsteady on his feet, he sometimes felt just like those toothless elders gabbing under the tree at Magwero. Heat and illness had turned him into someone he hardly knew, and one afternoon, in a voice he hardly recognized, he called out for a drink.
Someone knocked, then he heard Zizi’s voice, her soft singsong inquiry, “Kodi?”
She entered, padded to the side table. The mirror shook as she set the basin of water down. Lying on his side, too tired to move, he studied her reflection in the mirror. He spoke to the mirror: “I want to see you.”
Bewilderment showed on her girlish face for a moment, then gave way to a half smile, as though she were quietly pleased that he was asking something of her.
“Yes, Father.”
She drew in her lips and bit down on them, vexed, her face compressed in thought. Altman made a spiralling gesture with his finger that meant “unwrap.”
Zizi hesitated, and then, as though remembering, became calmer, turned away, and unknotted her cloth. She draped it over the chair back and faced him again, her hands clasped below her waist for the sake of modesty.
Still watching her in the mirror, Altman said, “Dance.”
She didn’t move, though she blinked at the word kutamba, a woman’s wild dance, done naked.
“Dance,” he said, pleading.
Untwining her fingers, lifting her hands, bending slightly, she parted her legs, then raised her knees, rolling her head—all the time looking aside, meeting his gaze only in the mirror. She had large feet, but she planted them lightly. She had scaly sticklike arms, scaly sticklike legs, tiny breasts, and her eyes gleamed with anxiety.
“Snake,” he said. “You’re my snake.”
Someone must have seen. Soon afterward, the whole village seemed to know what had happened in the hut. But the incident, evidence of his weakness—resentment, boredom, a pang of desperation—had the effect of convincing the village that he meant to stay, that he’d discovered a way of being happy, that at last they’d satisfied him. He found this out when a man with blotches on the whites of his eyes, a relative of Manyenga’s (he said brother, but “brother” was a general term), came to him and said he wanted to buy a motorcycle.
“And what will you do for me?” Altman said.
“Zizi will dance for you, sure.” The man stared at him, a smile in his spotted eyes.
Altman handed him some money, saying, “I want a ride on your bike to the boma.”
“I will give you, Father.”
Later that day, Altman set off across the compound with Zizi and the dwarf. He heard the insistent warning whistle, drowning out all other sounds, even the shrillness of the birds. Altman was leading the others in an almost stately way, holding the basket to his chest.
At the creek bank, he stooped and released the snake onto the hot sand. Before the snake could slip away Altman pinned it with a forked stick and let it thrash, whipping a pattern in the sand with its thickened body. And then the villagers saw him loosely swinging the empty basket across the clearing to his hut.
After that, they didn’t whistle in the same way when he left his hut. Instead of the shrill note of urgency, it was softer, like birdsong, just a signalling tweet. And whenever he returned, almost without fail, some money was missing from the basket where he’d kept the snake.
That week—the week of the separate raids on his stash of money—he fell ill again. This time it came quickly. It hit him as he was walking through the village, first a dizziness and an aching throat and pain behind his eyes, a buzz in his muscles, and an urgent thirst.
Dehydration, he thought. He sat down on the bare ground and pressed his eyes. He called for water, though he knew that he might be past the point of being able to absorb any liquid.
“Salt,” he murmured to Zizi, and remembered the word mchere. But she seemed too bewildered to move.
Women carrying babies in cloth slings on their way home from hoeing weeds in the maize fields stopped and watched him, more out of curiosity than pity, as he clutched his head. They surrounded him, as they would a dog in distress, or any creature dying, and therefore a diversion and not a threat.
The dwarf was near him; Altman saw him creeping close.
“Water,” Altman said, and repeated it in Sena.
The dwarf scuttled away on his wounded feet and was soon back, approaching Altman with an enamel cup. But, leaning, he stumbled and lost it. The women laughed and clapped, excited by the spectacle—the slumped man, the patch of dampened dust, the dirty cup, the dwarf on his knees.
Encouraged by the laughter, the dwarf stood and snatched the cup. More people came to see—the orphan boys, some men kicking through the dust with their shirts piled on their heads to keep off the sun. Altman was surrounded by the entire village, it seemed. But only the dwarf dared to come near him, jabbing at Altman with his own walking stick. Altman was helpless to resist, and when he looked up the dwarf was rushing at him, wild-eyed, with a bruised eager face. Altman tumbled into the dust, and a cry went up. The dwarf began kicking him, straining with grunts, to the rejoicing of the crowd.
Altman’s tongue was so swollen when he woke that he could barely breathe. He was still clothed, on his string bed in the hut.
“Chief.” It was Manyenga, murmuring the word.
Zizi was there, too, creeping toward him with the same kind of enamel cup that the dwarf had offered him. Altman raised himself and drank, expecting water, but it was thick and salty—soup. Throughout the day, he lapped at it; he sensed it easing his throat, seeping into his flesh, his body greedy for the salt.
In the morning, he sat up with a clearer head and pulled out the basket that he’d shoved under his bed. He knew before he opened it that all the money was gone.
The spell of dehydration had made him watchful. He sat for the rest of the day in the shade of his veranda, moving only to slap at flies. As the sun dropped to the level of the trees at the edge of the clearing, he snapped a branch from the tree that overhung his hut and made himself a new stick. Followed by Zizi and the dwarf, he walked along the barrier of elephant grass and crossed the clearing, pushed through the waist-high weeds to the ruined school. By a decaying stump he saw the puff adder, though it was almost indistinguishable from the flakes of old bark, thickened inside a widened cleft of the wood.
He was studying the adder when Manyenga appeared, but warily, keeping his distance, because he understood that Altman, staring hard at something that he could not see, was probably looking at a snake.
“I’ve been expecting you,” Altman said.
“Chief,” Manyenga said with a head shake of respect.
“We go to the boma tomorrow.”
“I am hoping, Father.”
“You know why.”
“I am knowing, Father. We are needing.”
Now the man was uncertain, clumsy in his politeness, eager to please.
Zizi and the dwarf had dropped back. Manyenga leaned toward Altman and, without pointing, but nodding in a knowing way, he whispered, “She is waiting you.”
Although it was dusk, there was still enough light from the reddened sky for Altman to see, at the far edge of the clearing, women holding babies, some old men, the orphan boys, and girls with firewood on their heads. It was the same crowd that had encouraged the dwarf to attack him when he’d fainted, but the mood was different. He had not seen them watching him like this since he’d first arrived in Malabo and had been welcomed with apprehension. In his days of illness and of being thwarted and robbed, he had almost forgotten how fearful they once were.
Manyenga turned and called out in English, “Kill a chicken for the chief!,” and then repeated it in his own language.
Altman smiled, and saluted, as he had that first day, but this time without hope.  

