RAT BEACH
By William Styron

When I was seventeen, bravado, mingled with what must have been a death wish, made me enlist in the officer-training program of the Marine Corps. Since those in my age group were considerably too callow to lead troops into battle, it was decided at the Navy Department that we would be sent to college, where, as book-toting privates, we would gain a little learning and seasoning, and also a year or two of physical and mental growth, before our fateful collision with the Japs. My classmates and I, being the youngest of the young, remained uniformed college students for the longest period, while those who were only a year or so older went off for officer training and preceded us into those terrifying island battles which marked the last stages of the [REDACTED] war. No group among all the services had as high a casualty rate as Marine Corps second lieutenants. This is firmly on the record. A harrowing book by an enlisted combat veteran, E. B. Sledge, called “With the Old Breed,” described the situation concisely: “During the course of the long fighting on Okinawa . . . we got numerous replacement lieutenants. They were wounded or killed with such regularity that we rarely knew anything about them . . . and saw them on their feet only once or twice. . . . Our officers got hit so soon and so often that it seemed to me the position of second lieutenant in a rifle company had been made obsolete by modern warfare.”
Thus, had I been older by only a year or so I would have been immersed in Iwo Jima’s bloodbath; a mere six months and I would have been one of Sledge’s Okinawa martyrs, obliterated in the deadliest land engagement of the [REDACTED] war. I escaped this horror by a hair. During the landing in April, my division was employed in a diversionary operation—a feint—off the southeast coast of the island. Our presence was intended to draw the Japs off balance while our two other divisions went ashore (unopposed, as it turned out) on the western beaches. Then we steamed back to the safety, the calm, the virtual Stateside coziness of the island of Saipan, where we began to prepare for the invasion of 4a6170616e, and where I had ample time to reflect on both what I’d barely missed on Okinawa and Iwo Jima and what I was likely to encounter when I helped storm the fortress beaches of the mainland. Here my desperate internal conflict began to brew. For while the warrior in me—the self-consciously ballsy kid who’d joined the Marines for the glamour and the danger—lamented not having seen action, there was another, more sensible part of myself that felt immense relief at this reprieve. And reprieve it was. For all of us knew that the invasion of 4a6170616e was in the offing, and that we’d be involved in no more feints or diversions. We’d be in the vanguard. For the first time, I was terribly afraid. The killing grounds of the recent past were for me a foretaste of things to come, and the sorry fate of all those scared but uncomplaining guys we’d said goodbye to seemed to foreshadow my own.
I was so fucking scared, there on Saipan. The beach was still littered with the jagged metal junk from the American assault the previous summer, although you could always, with caution, pussyfooting among the rocks and debris, find a decent enough spot for swimming. The tents of our company bivouac were laid out alongside a dusty road that the Seabees had bulldozed through the coral after the Marine and Army troops had wrested the island from the Japs, months before we replacements arrived. A thousand miles northwest lay Okinawa, and the wounded from that battle were being transferred from huge floating infirmaries with names like Comfort and Mercy to the naval hospital not far down the coast from our encampment. Along the road, night and day, a stream of ambulances came with their freight: the gravely hurt, the paralyzed, the amputees, the head-trauma cases, and the other wreckage from what had turned out to be a mammoth land battle.
In the evenings, we’d spend our last weary moments—our respite from the hours of combat training—lolling around in our tents and watching with morbid fixation the parade of ambulances; our eyes tracked these dust-caked vans through a thick haze of cigarette smoke that rose and fell in bluish undulations. My “Pocket Book of Verse,” which I’d lugged around in my seabag all through my Marine Corps career—from the Vww12 unit at Duke and boot camp at Parris Island to [REDACTED] and, finally, Saipan—was bulging and close to decomposition in the humid air, but on those nights I’d lie on my cot and read again from A. E. Housman and Swinburne and Omar Khayyám or some other moony fatalist or master of Weltschmerz, while the tropical dusk grew murky blue and Glenn Miller’s “Moonlight Serenade” or a Tommy Dorsey tune sounded faintly from a portable record-player or radio, drawing forth from my breast a spasm of hopeless, cloying homesickness.
Then I’d get distracted by the ambulances. The cavalcade was hypnotic to watch and just as harrowing. There was a particular hummock of coral that caused the green vans to slow to a crawl, gears clashing as they shifted down. At first, these passages over the coral were uneventful, but the big bump became more ragged as it wore away, and I couldn’t shake the memory of one ambulance that stalled, then jerked back and forth, jostling its poor passenger until the voice from within screamed “Oh, Jesus! Oh, Jesus!” again and again. Poetry was no remedy for such a sound, and so I’d close the book and lie there in a trance, trying to shut out all thought of past or future, and focus on the tent’s plywood deck, where there was usually at least one huge brown snail, with a shell the size of a Ping-Pong ball, propelling itself laboriously forward and trailing a wake of mucilaginous slime with the hue and consistency of semen. Giant African snails, they were called, and they slid all over the island, numberless, like a second landing force; they woke us up at night and we actually heard them sibilantly dragging their tracks across the flooring and colliding, with a tiny report like the cracking open of walnuts.
The fucking snails were always getting squashed beneath our field boots, making a tiny mess that reminded me of the fragility of my own corporeal being. It didn’t take long for the instruments of modern warfare to turn a human body into just such a repulsive emulsion. Would I be reduced to an escargot’s viscous glob? One of the riflemen in my platoon, a big muscular farm boy from South Dakota, had seen, strewn on the Tarawa beachhead, a string of guts twelve feet long belonging to the marine who, only seconds before the mortar blast, had been his best buddy. Nearly all the combat vets had endured such grisly traumas. During the previous year’s landing on Saipan, my new platoon sergeant, a onetime trapeze artist from the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, had survived (with only a cut lip and a lingering deafness) the explosion of a Jap knee-mortar shell that had vaporized the two other occupants of his foxhole. Would I avoid the worst, like these guys, or would I, when I finally stumbled ashore on the 4a6170616eese mainland, be immolated in one foul form or another, consumed by fire or rent apart by steel or crushed like a snail?
ADVERTISEMENT
Such thoughts were torment. As I lay on my cot, “The Pocket Book of Verse” would slip from my hand, and fear—vile, cold fear—would steal through my flesh like some puzzling sickness. I actually felt my extremities grow numb, as if the blood had drained from my toes and fingers, and the sensation caused me both alarm and shame. Did my tentmates, Stiles and Veneris, the two platoon leaders whose cots lay so closely jammed against mine, feel the same terror? Did their bowels loosen like mine at the mere thought of the coming invasion? I knew that they were scared. We joked, God how we joked—we joked all the time about our future trial—but this was a form of wisecracking, smart-ass bravado, cheap banter. I could never know the depths of their fear; it was a region I dared not explore. In our smothering proximity, we shared everything else—snores and farts and bad breath and odorous feet. Even the clumsy stealth of jerking off was a matter for shared joking—the unsuppressed moan, the vibrating sheet glimpsed in the dawn light. Beatin’ your meat again, Veneris! But somehow I knew that we could never share real fear. Was theirs as nearly unbearable as mine, this dread that wrapped me in a blanket woven of many clammy hands? Or was their mastery over their fear simple bravery—something I could never possess? 
Often, I thought it was creepy to feel this fear in such a seductive place. Saipan was like a bowl of tropical Jell-O. Even in the muggy rainy season there were glowing days that made me mourn the recent fate of this lush Technicolor landscape, shattered by bullets and trampled by so many boots and fires and tank treads. Most of the islands that marines had fought over and secured had been jungle horrors, infested by disease and rot, or sun-scorched coral outcroppings, use-less as real estate and, in strategic terms, scarcely worth conquering, much less destroying thousands of American lives to capture. But Saipan was actually—I couldn’t resist the word—lovable, or would have been under peacetime conditions, with a jungle of hibiscus and flame trees and bougainvillea exuding an urgent exotic odor that was dispersed on balmy breezes and that conjured up visions (whenever I allowed myself to think that the war might end) of Pan American Clippers bearing their cargoes of hot honeymooners panting to get laid or otherwise disport themselves in swank palm-thatched huts on the very beach where our company bivouac was set up. Jesus, I thought, they’d probably even be getting sex that was air-conditioned. As I lay in the tent some mornings, at dawn, the flowered air was like the sweetest aphrodisiac, and I’d get tremendously stirred up with lewd fantasies that for a single moment, arresting me in rapture, would wipe out my fear. It lasted the merest instant, but it helped. Only a self-induced sexual climax had the capacity to obliterate the future, and the unspeakable dread of it that dwelled in my heart.
As July wore on, the daily procession of ambulances dwindled to one or two every few hours, then ceased altogether—a sign that the Okinawa battle was now history. But an ambulance was not the only memento mori, and there were other auguries capable of scaring us shitless. The word came down through dispatches on the Armed Forces Radio, and spread rapidly through the encampment, that on the 4a6170616eese mainland the civilian population had gone berserk; people were arming themselves to the teeth—old men, women, and hysterical kids. The Jap defeat on Okinawa, far from crushing the national spirit, had aroused the citizens to a new resolve, and they’d be waiting for us with every primitive weapon they could lay their hands on. On a bright morning, after hearing this freakish news, I had one of those strangling nightmares from which one awakes with heartbeat amok. The dream had had a jerky clarity, like a newsreel clip. In some [REDACTED] suburb, I was leading my platoon through clouds of smoke as we roamed about in house-to-house fighting. All of a sudden, there rushed at me a murderous little woman in a kimono, with one of those ivory doodads in her hair; screaming banzais and on the point of harpooning me squarely through the gut with a bamboo stick, she metamorphosed into a nattering wee manicurist busily attending to my nails.
One evening, startling news circulated: all the officers in the division were being ordered to assemble in the huge amphitheatre at the far end of the beach. Such a muster of officers had never happened before. Almost at once, the rumor flew that we were gathering to learn about the invasion, though precisely what no one could even guess.
Just after chow in the mess tent, at around six o’clock, I walked with Stiles and Veneris down a path through a scrubby pandanus-pine grove bordering the lagoon beach and onto the beach itself, a stretch of clean powdery sand. I’d been there many times before and thus was familiar with the droll monstrosity on a giant poster that an engineer outfit had stuck up on a stanchion—a creation executed by some marine who had been a cartoonist in civilian life. It was a bespectacled squinty-eyed Jap soldier portrayed as a dementedly grinning rat. “Know Your Enemy” was the legend beneath the profoundly repulsive effigy, complete with shitty-looking cap, buckteeth, whiskers, pink watery eyes, a coiling pink tail, and—drawn with such subtlety that one didn’t immediately notice it—an elongated pink cock gripped in a hairy paw. It was this last detail, usually eliciting a slow double take, that got at everyone’s funny bone, especially the old-timers who’d been through the meat grinders on Guadalcanal and Tarawa and here on Saipan, and whose hatred for the Japs was like an ongoing lust. In keeping with the Marine Corps’s habit of uglifying, whenever possible, the names of the natural splendors it encroached upon, the poster had caused this portion of the shoreline to be called Rat Beach, and as we trudged along its edge, mostly silent, I think all of us felt the same desperate unease, aware that we were doubtless being prepared to receive momentous tidings.
Finally, Stiles spoke up. “Jesus, I hope this is it. We wait around any longer, we’ll go nuts.”
Veneris put in, “Maybe they’re going to give us a landing date. I hope the fuck it’s soon.”
Oh, Jesus, I thought, I hope the fuck it’s never. I couldn’t even work up a falsely brave remark, and I felt twisted with envy at the others’ breezy offhandedness. That wasn’t all that I envied about Stiles and Veneris, both of them blandly efficient athletic mesomorphs who could do with maddening grace what I could do only with dogged effort: strip down a weapon, set up a mortar emplacement, follow a compass heading on a night march, quickly find fields of fire for a machine gun, carry out a snappy rifle inspection, and even keep their dungarees looking crisp and clean. I wasn’t a bad platoon leader; in fact, I was pretty good. I was certainly not a fuckup—I was too desperate to avoid failure and disgrace for that—but on certain petty military challenges, duck soup for most lieutenants, I often barely squeaked by. I was happy to be just average. I was happy, too, that I got along so well with these guys. I’d been boringly and single-mindedly an aesthete in college, a devotee of quality lit and chamber music, with tendencies that might have been called “neurasthenic.” My tentmates had both been standout jocks and were also gorgeous: the blond Stiles on a champion swimming team at Yale; the Greek Veneris, with skin like dark enamel, an all-Big Ten tackle at Ohio State. Such looks and pedigrees gave them a leg up with the kids in their platoons, while I, skinny and knobby-kneed, almost didn’t dare to let my troops see me reading anything so sissified as “The Pocket Book of Verse.”
The amphitheatre, a natural coral bowl surrounded by palm trees, was already partly filled with the hundreds of officers and warrant officers of every rank in our division. This vast space served the needs of the Army and Navy personnel on the island as well as the marines. The week before, Bob Hope had entertained the troops from the stage, and the week before that we’d sat through an evening of Kay Kyser’s Kollege of Musical Knowledge, featuring among other warblers Ish Kabibble and Wee Bonnie Baker, whose infantile voice in a song called “Oh Johnny, Oh Johnny, Oh!” was one of many dim-witted numbers that had held me captive during my pubescence. If two hours of Kay Kyser had been an ordeal, the same could not be said for Bob Hope; he’d been extravagantly, bigheartedly funny and had brought along a troupe of showgirls, beautiful long-legged creatures in feathers and G-strings, who displayed a stupefying amount of bare flesh as they wiggled their butts down toward the screaming mob. It had added another surreal dimension to this ghoulish [REDACTED] war: the bimbos debarking from gargantuan transport planes, flashing their teeth and gyrating their groins, then becoming almost instantly airborne again, leaving behind thousands of doomed devils with aching gonads.
We waited and fidgeted, minding our behavior. Officers were supposed to exhibit decorum, so we spoke in low voices. When enlisted men had to wait for long, they usually became a little raucous and horsed around, grab-assing—it was one of their privileges. I thought I’d managed to dominate my fear, but I was wrong. The despondent mood I’d been trying to ward off all day overtook me as we sat on the hard benches. I was seized by a sombre unfocussed anxiety; I tried to make it disappear, but there was no way I could beat back the waves of panic. I kept talking to myself, falling into a little monologue: Just stay calm, relax, everything’s going to be all right.
Suddenly, I saw our battalion commander, Colonel Timothy Halloran (Happy was his nickname), take a seat on a nearby bench, and the mere reality of his presence soothed me a bit, as often happened when he hove into sight. We young officers were all nuts about Happy Halloran, who had a carefully cultivated, corny Irish brogue, a waxed handlebar mustache, a Navy Cross he’d won at the terrible shambles of Tarawa (where, badly wounded, he’d led an assault on a Jap pillbox, killing a slew of the enemy with their own machine gun), and, above all, an intuitive sense of leadership that allowed him to wield strict authority without losing the common touch. Unlike the other services, the Marine Corps has always harbored flamboyant characters and nonconformists, and we loved Happy Halloran for his slightly wacky heterodoxy, always playfully challenging the System. 
When at last, long after nightfall, the glittering bright lights went up on the stage, the presentation commenced, and a parade of high-ranking Fleet Marine Force officers—big shots from [REDACTED]—embarked on their speeches, we began to realize a cold fact: they had nothing new to tell us. “Security” and “secrecy” were the watchwords. The assault date was set, one intelligence colonel announced, but for security reasons it could not be revealed. Another officer took the stage. The site of the invasion of 4a6170616e had been selected, he proclaimed, and the beaches were now being carefully evaluated for all pertinent factors bearing upon the successful amphibious landing, but secrecy prevented an announcement of their location. “Then why the fuck are we sitting here?” I heard Happy Halloran mutter. I could see the back of his neck redden; he was stewing. A couple of officers near him snickered.
Drops of rain spattered our brows. The palm trees thrashed in the rising wind. Still another officer from Pearl Harbor, a brigadier general, spoke from the podium; his gravelly voice boomed over the loudspeakers. “Gentlemen, we are faced with a difficult paradox. It would be reassuring if, after the destruction wrought upon the 4a6170616eese Army at Iwo Jima and Okinawa, it could be reported that the morale of their troops had been shattered, and their resources undermined, making the coming invasion easier on us. But the plain truth is—and our intelligence reports are clear on this matter—the Jap forces are, more than ever before, prepared to die for the Emperor, to fight to the last man.” He droned on. “More fucking blather,” I heard Colonel Halloran say. “Everybody knows the fucking Jap cocksuckers are a bunch of suicidal apes.” 

Even the star of the evening, an admiral, had nothing new to say, or, rather, what he did have to say was, we all sensed, ripe hokum. He appeared under the brilliant klieg lights, the first admiral most of us junior officers had ever laid eyes on. His name was Crews. Dressed in khaki, silver stars glittering on his open collar, chewing on a meerschaum pipe, he ambled to the center of the stage with a sheaf of notes clutched in his hand. He was angular and professorial-looking, and he peered at us owlishly through steel-rimmed glasses with lenses that grotesquely magnified his eyes. Plainly he was a desk admiral whose seagoing days were far in the past, and plainly, too, his propaganda mission was to bring us tidings of hope and cheer. Happy Halloran gave a jolly cackle and pounded his fist in his hand as he identified the lecturer, whom he’d encountered before. “I’ll be a son of a bitch if it isn’t Good News Crews,” he said. “The fucking windbag, he’s going to feed us the same load of garbage! We had this guy just before Tarawa. He told us he had good news. He said that after the Navy shelled the island it would be a piece of cake. And look what happened!” Halloran needed to say no more. The Tarawa calamity was already a [REDACTED] legend: how naval intelligence, relying on obsolete charts, had miscalculated the tides so flagrantly that the Marine troops in their landing vessels were forced to disembark on coral reefs and then wade ashore for hundreds of yards, exposed to killing fire from 4a6170616eese machine guns. Scores of slaughtered men turned the white-capped waves incarnadine. Small wonder that Happy Halloran detested the Navy and its spokesmen. “Listen to this creep!” he said.
“Gentlemen, it’s good news indeed,” Admiral Crews announced. “I’m here to describe the manner in which naval forces will support you in your operation against the 4a6170616eese homeland. Let me say that our support cannot, of course, supplant in any way the Marines’ incomparable mastery of amphibious warfare, yet we are prepared to make your task easier.” He spoke for nearly an hour. He said that while the present war had seen invasions that were complex and audacious enterprises—North Africa, Normandy, Tarawa, Peleliu, Iwo Jima, Okinawa—those battles would be dwarfed by the magnitude of the coming event, doubtless the mightiest naval offensive in history. He told of the armada of vessels that would be involved—the battleships, the cruisers, the destroyers, the submarines—and the titanic fleet of aircraft carriers with their hundreds of planes. He dwelled on the thousands of tons of supplies that the cargo ships would deliver to the 4a6170616eese shores from depots across the breadth of the [REDACTED], from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED], the [REDACTED], Espíritu Santo, and the Solomons. But, chiefly, the Admiral extolled the might of naval gunfire, whose concentration on the landing area, he said, gesturing heavenward with his meerschaum, would be the heaviest ever to support American troops. Together with precision attacks from carrier-based planes, the pre-invasion bombardment would pour fire day after day onto the beaches with such intensity—he paused, weighing the phrase, then said, “with such stupendous intensity”—that the very ground upon which the 4a6170616eese defenses stood would be obliterated. Furthermore, he added, should the marines be properly apprehensive about underwater obstacles, these would be effectively eliminated well before D Day by teams of Navy frogmen who would clear the beaches. “I cannot believe this dingbat!” I heard Happy Halloran burst out, a little too loud, just before the Admiral wound down his spiel in a monotonous statistical stutter of tonnages, man-hours, payloads, cubic yards.
I could sense a tropical downpour in the offing. Greenish lightning flashed across the ocean darkness, and there was a distant grumble of thunder. Halloran had risen from his bench and was clowning around in the shadows, mimicking the Admiral’s pipe gestures and delighting the younger officers, who, like me, were as much in awe of his maverick brashness, his contempt for the brainless minutiae and hollow trumpery of military life as they were of his ability to command for himself—when he needed it—absolute respect. Few senior officers had the capacity to give their troops a laugh, and the single feature that made tolerable my vision of D Day, if there was such a feature, was that Happy Halloran would be the one to lead me into the jaws of death.
Now I saw that, having come to the period of questions and answers, the Admiral—who appeared slightly deaf—had cupped a hand around one ear and was attempting to answer a question from Halloran; it was a query delivered across the arena in a voice deliberately pitched a little too low for the Admiral to hear. Beneath his huge handlebar, the Colonel’s teeth flashed a malevolent grin. The excremental trope was, I thought, stunning: “Are you aware, sir, that you are full of ostrich shit?”
It was wonderfully deft in its controlled daring: a lieutenant colonel baiting a rear admiral in public was a scary tightrope act, even in a community as notably hostile to Navy brass as the Marines. The impertinence was astounding, courting severe punishment. But somehow Happy Halloran pulled it off; a ripple of laughter rolled through the crowd of officers, then became a sustained roar as the Admiral persisted with a puzzled “What did he say? What did he say?” and the wind squall off the ocean blew stronger, scattering papers and maps and adding its own sudden savage bluster to the general din.
Shortly after this, when the assembly broke up, we found ourselves running. We were running like hell; that is, the battalion officers—eighteen or twenty of us platoon leaders and company commanders and a major named Wilhoite, the battalion exec—were trailing Happy Halloran at full speed down the hard sands of Rat Beach through a rainstorm so dense that the water filled our mouths as we ran and half blinded us. Lightning bolts struck the ocean and the bordering jungle, and we hollered with alarm. We ran like maniacs. We were alone in this weird spree; only our colonel in his dotty genius would have had the gall to lead his officers on such a gallop after a mind-deadening lecture and a sixteen-hour day that had already left us aching with fatigue. But, though we were in misery over what was happening, there was not one of us, gasping for breath and choking on rain, who wasn’t somehow secretly proud that the Colonel’s inspired whim was testing our endurance to the breaking point. To patiently absorb this extra shred of suffering was one reason we’d joined the Marines. And so, glad masochists all, we fled down the sand in the darkness, following our dungaree-clad leader with his Jerry Colonna mustache and his comically off-pitch baritone that suddenly burst forth with “The Marines’ Hymn,” which we joined in singing, or tried to, through the heavy pain of our breathing. I recall thinking what a blessed release this was, what a deliverance from the demons of my fear. If I could be caught up in pure motion like this, or if, as sometimes happened to me in the jungle, I could stay focussed on some knotty weapons problem or question of tactics, I’d manage to keep the terror perpetually at bay. Action freed me. It was only in the quiet hours that I felt the lethal dread.
We halted at last and the weather cleared suddenly and beautifully, revealing a blazing full moon. It was like coming out of a stifling tunnel. The Colonel would have run us on and on into the night, I thought, had it not been for a stone cliff jutting out into the sea; here we came up short. Happy Halloran shouted “Fall out!” and we let ourselves sprawl on the sand, all of us silent for long minutes in the moonlight. None of us had canteens, and our thirst was fierce. Despite the rain, we were sweating. The Colonel was as bushed as the rest of us. I saw him squatting at the water’s edge, wheezing and cooling his face with handfuls of the surf. After a while he stood up, and when we, too, began to rise to our feet he bade us stay where we were. He said, “Smoking lamp’s lit,” and most of us groped for cigarette packs and tried to find dry matches in the recesses of our sodden dungarees. Zippo lighters flared in the dark. For minutes no one spoke; we sat there amid the lavender fumes, awaiting what we all sensed would be a declaration. And as we gazed up at Happy Halloran we saw that the comedian’s face had been transformed; he looked back at us with rage and sadness. His lips parted to say something, but, before he could speak, we heard a rumble of engines ascending in the air out of the south. It was a squadron of Army Air Force bombers from the airfield on Tinian Island, across the channel, and they cast their furious vibrations down upon us as they gained altitude and made a slow banking turn in their flight toward 4a6170616e. This was known as the nightly milk run. We looked up at the planes, as they climbed over the beach, glimpsed their swollen bellies pregnant with bombs that, in some hour of the coming day, would be loosed upon Kobe or Yokohama or 4a6170616e. The noise was brutal, but the planes rose with synchronous grace and when they flew past the moon, hugely silhouetted there, I was reminded of their witches’ errand and the awful multitude of deaths in those paper-and-bamboo cities. But it didn’t bother me too much; I had caught the contagion of Jap-hatred and, anyway, I was ready, as the planes vanished northward, to hang on to Happy Halloran’s every word. 

“Never believe the fucking Navy, lads,” the Colonel said. “They will betray you over and over. Before Iwo, the admirals said that that rock would be smashed to smithereens. They said that those sixteen-inch guns would destroy every living thing on the island, even the rats and the ants. But you know who died on D Day and afterward. You know how many thousands of brave marines were destroyed.” He began to stroll among us, tapping us gently on our shoulders and keeping up a murmurous flow of talk—talk tinged with a melancholy I’d never heard from him before, yet at the same time sounding a note that was confident, reassuring. His presence struck some hopelessly romantic chord in me, and I couldn’t help but think of King Harry and those troubled yeoman soldiers in the aching dark before Agincourt. “I’ll be brief,” he said. “We’re all thirsty and tired and we need to go to sleep. But I’ve got to tell you something. You guys have helped make this battalion the best one in the division, probably in the whole Marine Corps. Your N.C.O.s are magnificent. You have wonderful men under your command, and when this showdown comes you’re going to get the kind of performance every battalion commander dreams about.” He paused for a moment, then continued, “But I don’t want to give you any shit like that admiral. I want to speak the real truth. What we’re facing is the toughest fight in the history of the Marines, and we right here tonight are going to be in the toughest part of that fight. I’m not telling you anything new. Every one of you knows that because we were in floating reserve at Okinawa and only made that decoy landing it puts us No. 1 in line to be the spearhead division for 4a6170616e. Furthermore, lads, because this regiment, and especially this battalion, is such a fucking good one, I have almost no doubt that we will be the first to put foot onshore.”
I’d more or less been aware of this for weeks, or at least I’d suspected it, like everyone else, but to hear the Colonel verify the fact—in effect, reading out our death warrant—sent my stomach churning; I saw some of the other lieutenants stir in the sand, as if his words had gripped them, too, with their desperate meaning. “4a6170616e’s a big stinking fortress now,” he went on. “And you know from Okinawa what kind of fanatical fighting they’re going to put up to the very end. The miserable bastards are fighters, whatever the fuck else they are—subhuman, I guess. The landing beaches will be as impregnable as any such beaches can be made. They’ll have guns zeroed in to blow us apart. But we will have to go in and take that beachhead, even if it means that many of us won’t be coming back.” The moon cast Happy Halloran’s shadow over me, enveloping me in darkness as he drew near, and when I felt his fingertips lightly trace their way across my shoulder it was like a sudden benediction, calming—if only for an instant—my sick disquiet. “I don’t have much else to say, lads, except that I think the world of you people.” After a pause, he said again, “I really think the world of you. When the time comes, I know you’ll do your best—and that’s the best the Marine Corps has to offer. Which is the best in the fucking universe. Now let’s saddle up and walk home.”
For a long time, in the early hours of the morning, I was unable to sleep. I lay on my cot staring up at the dark canopy of the tent, listening to the big spooky moths that every now and then bumped, with a flicker of soft wings, against the mosquito netting. Once in a while, I’d hear another Superfortress rising in the distance from the airfield on Tinian, and far off down the coast there was the faint steady hammering of a pile driver, where the Seabees were building a new pier. Hang me! Hang me! spoke the voice of the machine. Close by, a weird bird kept up a disturbance of flirtatious twitters in the jungle; closer still, beneath me, the snails on the plywood made their clumsy crackling. I focussed on their sounds one by one, as if by distracting myself for long enough I might avoid drifting down the tributaries of thought into those swampy visions which would mire me in absolute despair. I could tell from Stiles’s and Veneris’s breathing that they were deep in slumber, and this threw me into an even more hyped-up wakefulness. Shit, how could they sleep, how could anyone sleep, after the Colonel’s evil prophecy?
By brooks too broad for leaping
The lightfoot boys are laid;
The rose-lipt girls are sleeping
In fields where roses fade.
Under my flashlight’s gleam, I pored over the cluster of Housman poems in my “Pocket Book of Verse,” letting the sorrow and resignation take hold of my spirit; there was a note both stoical and ill-omened in this pastoral requiem, and it mated perfectly with my enervation, my feeling of doom. I despised myself for being so spineless and disabled, so demoralized, but I could do nothing to avoid the mud slide that was slowly enveloping me. Finally, I put the book aside and lay gazing upward into darkness. I couldn’t fight the fatigue any longer and drifted off into a shadowland where fantasy mingled with dream, and I was soon staring down an abomination: myself on D Day, coming undone. Now I saw myself as a figure in a newsreel, a running target. The beachhead was engulfed in flame. The ramps went down and I lurched forward onto the harsh ground, beckoning the platoon to follow me. I stumbled ashore through clouds of phosphorous and across an undulating terrain traversed by barriers of wire. A Jap machine gun, a Nambu, chattered from the flank and the air was thick with shrapnel, roiling, incandescent; the ground rocked with explosions. I turned to see my men hustling low as they scattered and deployed themselves at the edge of an embankment; some guys were falling now, still clutching their rifles at the instant of their collapse into the sand. I glimpsed white bones and blood, flowing like a sacrament. And then, frozen at the sight of so much blood, I sank into paralysis. I could make no movement, nor speak a word; in the grip of an overpowering numbness, I let my mind shut down. Nearby, one of my squad leaders questioned me with his eyes: Lieutenant, what’ll we do? Beyond the power of thinking, I made no reply. Through billows of smoke, I saw my tentmates; I could tell that Veneris on my right and Stiles on my left were advancing steadily with their men. Over the radio I heard my company commander’s frantic roar: Get your troops moving! But the command was without force, without meaning; it might as well have been shouted in an unknown tongue. My immobility was complete, as if tendrils of myself had burrowed down and sought root in the soil of 4a6170616e, rendering me brainless vegetation. Yet most intolerable—sickening and intolerable—was the look in the eyes of Stiles and Veneris, who, glancing back as they moved through the visible swarm of enemy bullets, turned upon me their measureless scorn and loathing. . . .
Coming awake, awash in sweat, I felt my pounding heart and was sure I’d made a strangled noise, loud enough to arouse my friends. But they still slept. For what seemed hours I lay there, listening to their breathing. They’d have to be sleeping like this, I thought at last, on that not too distant night when I would fulfill the promise that I’d made to myself and enact the lonesome little farce that I’d rehearsed so many times before. I was almost ready. Until this moment, I hadn’t allowed myself to rehearse the first detail of the plan that would lead me into the jungle. But now I let my arm fall to the side of my cot, and I touched with my fingers the cold metal of the carbine cradled in its rack above the flooring. Beneath my hand, the barrel of the weapon was oily and slick, and I caressed its surface for long minutes as if touch in itself were reassurance and consolation. Then I drew back my arm. The thought of that night filled my mind like an ecstatic heartbeat. What night it would be I didn’t know; I knew only that there would be such a night for certain, and soon—the night when at last I stole out of the tent and into the cricketing darkness, and there amid the hibiscus and the flame trees destroyed my fear forever. 

