IDOLS
By Tim Gautreaux

[REDACTED] was living in a sooty apartment next to an iron foundry in [REDACTED] when he received a letter announcing that his great-grandfather’s estate had finally been cleared up. He stood in the doorway of his peeling duplex, his hands shaking as he read the terms. Most of the property had been sold off to satisfy liens and lawyers’ fees, but the old country house and six acres remained, along with twenty-eight thousand dollars. [REDACTED] was a thin man of sixty-three, balding, a typewriter repairman who worked out of his spare bedroom and kept to himself. The one time he’d seen the grand old home was when he was eight, riding past it on a gravel road with his mother, back when she could afford a car. The mansion was surrounded on three sides by rows of cracked Doric pillars, its second-floor gallery missing many balusters, its windows patched with cardboard. Back then, it had been occupied by a glowering family of squatters who’d slouched on the porches and stared after his mother’s black Ford as it crawled past the fence. For all he knew, they were still there.
He went inside, out of the late-June heat, and sat in a duct-taped recliner to reread the terms of his good fortune. The only extra money he’d ever had was a hundred-dollar win on a scratch-off ticket. Before his mother died, he’d spent two years at a tiny local college and considered himself at least wealthy in knowledge, more so than the shopkeepers and records clerks he dealt with. Normally, he disparaged people who owned large houses, yet deep in his heart he’d stored the memory of the old mansion, the only grand thing in his family’s history. It had shamed him to long for the house, and now he owned it.
The thought of inflicting pain on unlucky people bothered [REDACTED], so instead of personally telling the impoverished family who lived in the house that they would have to leave he asked the county sheriff to evict them. He spent a month emptying his apartment of derelict Selectrics and Royal 440s, then got into his twenty-year-old Dodge and drove southeast, into the scrub-pine flats of northern [REDACTED]. After an hour, he left the wide state highway for a snaky blacktop road, and deep in the woods he made a left turn down a gravel lane that ran as straight as a railroad for ten miles. At one point, he came upon a five-strand run of barbed wire healed into the bodies of live oaks, and he slowed, took a breath, and stopped the car. The lawn was a weave of waist-high weeds and fallen limbs punctuated by the otherworldly pink domes of thistle blooms, and rising beyond was a mildewed temple. Patches of plaster had fallen away from the main walls, showing orange, wind-wasted brick. [REDACTED] pulled past the end of the fence, got out, and sat on the car’s hood. His now dead mother, whom he’d found hard to bear, pretentious for a poor woman and full of outdated airs, had talked about this house as though it proved something about her ancestors, the Godhighs. “They were noble and powerful people,” she’d told him the day they’d driven by the place. “And we have their blood.” He straightened his back so that he could stare over the wiry brush at the soaring columns, the brooding eaves, and felt that he deserved this inheritance, had deserved it all his life. He walked up the flag steps, through the unlocked door, and into a broad hall. It was an echoing house of frighteningly tall rooms that smelled of emptiness and mouse droppings. The place hadn’t been painted in many decades, though the last occupants had left it relatively clean. The lightless kitchen, something added a hundred years after the place was built, contained a gassy-smelling stove and a badly chipped sink. Upstairs, four vast rooms opened off a wide hall, and a door led up to an attic crossed with naked cypress beams. Above that perched a glassed-in belvedere, unbearably hot, where he could look out over long flat plots of woods that had once been cotton fields. He imagined pickers dragging their bags slowly across the steaming landscape and understood whose labor had built the house. The roof was iron, and it looked to be sound, though storm-dented and running with rust. After inspecting the outbuildings, he drove six dusty miles to the town of Poxley, where he bought, on time, a bed, some chairs, a couple of tables, and a dinette set. Mr. Chance Poxley, a soft, liver-spotted gentleman in a white shirt and a skinny tie, also sold him a small used refrigerator.
“You can’t live without no icebox,” Mr. Poxley told him. “You’ll leave a can of potted meat out too long on the windowsill and think you can eat it the next day. Then you’ll get to throwin’ up all over the place. You’ll get the sick headache.” Mr. Poxley raised a blue-veined hand to his forehead.
“All right,” [REDACTED] snapped. “I’ll take the damned thing.”
“You better,” he said.
“When can you deliver my items?”
“Where you live?”
He told him and watched for his reaction.
“Law. Is that old place still standin’?”
[REDACTED] sniffed and raised his chin. “Not only is it standing, I’m going to restore it the way it was.”
Mr. Poxley scratched the back of his head and squinted. “What way was it? Ain’t nobody alive ever seen a drop of paint on that place.”
“That’ll change soon,” he said, plucking his receipt from the old man’s fingers.
“You ought to get you a nice little brick house on a half acre, somethin’ you can keep up. I don’t think you understand how much that place’ll cost to fix.”
“The house is part of my family’s history.”
Mr. Poxley seemed to think about this a moment. “Well, I hope history can keep you out of a draft.”
The next day, the old man and two high-school boys delivered [REDACTED]’s purchases. Upstairs, Mr. Poxley stared at the sagging bedroom ceiling. “Say, what you do for a livin’?”
“I sell and service typewriters on a business route in [REDACTED].”
“Typewriters,” Mr. Poxley repeated, as if [REDACTED] had said buggy whips or steam engines. “We threw our last one out ten years ago.”
“Some places need reliable old models to fill out forms and such.” [REDACTED] spread open a sheet over his new mattress. “Antique shops want rare models restored.”
The old man gave the house the once-over, looked down the flaking hall, across the warped pine flooring, gazed up at the cloth-covered wires snaking along the ceiling. “For your sake, I hope typin’ comes back in style.”
For the next three weeks, [REDACTED] scrubbed down the rooms and galleries and thinned out the fallen limbs in the yard, the end of each day finding him tired unto sickness. He bought an electric saw and some lumber to patch the second-floor gallery, but every time he was halfway through a board a fuse would blow in the spider-haunted circuit box in the kitchen. The first time he fired up his double hot plate, the fuse-box door was open and he witnessed a cerulean flash and a rattail of smoke, the first of four fuses it took to fry one egg. He had no idea how to upgrade the wiring, and in the following days he began to eat his food cold.
Every day, he wandered through his rooms, calculating how long it would take to patch the fractured plaster, paint the blotched walls, and glaze the windows.
[REDACTED] understood that he would have to hire cheap help, a broken-down old carpenter desperate for work, or some rehabilitating wino or mental case, and the thought elevated his spirits, as if such servitude would echo the history of the place. There was an ancient kitchen house in the back yard, left over from the days when kitchens were built separate from the main houses in order to prevent fires, and the hired fellow could stay there as part of his salary. The rural living and the hard work would bring the man back to health, so the job would be like granting a favor.
He drove in to see Mr. Poxley, who, as usual, was standing at the end of his business counter, his left elbow holding him up. “What can I do for you, Mr. Typewriter Man?”
[REDACTED] frowned at the greeting. “I need to find somebody to do electrical work, simple carpentry, and painting.”
Mr. Poxley’s eyebrows flew up. “So do I.”
[REDACTED] crossed his skinny arms. “But I can offer a place to live.”
“You say you want this worker to live out there with you? What on earth for? You’ll have to feed him, and he’ll have lots of chances to bum money. After a few months on the place, he’ll be the same as a brother-in-law.”
“I want an employee, not a relative.”
Mr. Poxley flapped his limp hand at him. “You want a sharecropper, son. Them days is over, gone to history.”
[REDACTED] suspected that Chance Poxley had little grasp of history. He was just a desiccated old man who specialized in opinions. Still, he probably knew everyone in the county. [REDACTED] leaned in and lowered his voice. “I thought maybe I could find someone with a weakness. You know how people go out of circulation because they gamble too much or drink.”
“Oh, you want a drunk sharecropper,” the old man said.
“No, no. Maybe somebody just down on his luck. I could help turn him around.”
“He gets drunk enough, he’ll turn around plenty.” Mr. Poxley slapped his leg and bent over laughing.
[REDACTED] had little patience with uneducated people and turned to walk out. He caught sight of a large corkboard tacked over with hand-printed messages, a community bulletin board. “Can I at least put up a little notice there?”
“Hep yourself.” The old man limped off toward the rest room as [REDACTED] searched along the counter until he found pen and pad.
“Wanted: handyman to live on site and repair house. Ask Mr. Poxley for directions.” Succinct, that was the way to be, [REDACTED] thought. He looked back toward the rest room, and added, “No drunks.” He chose a black thumbtack out of a pile in an ashtray and stuck the note in the middle of the board, next to one offering a free rattlesnake to a good home.
The following Monday, [REDACTED] was outside on the lower gallery, cleaning up a geriatric [REDACTED] on a plank table he had dragged from an outbuilding. In each room of the house, a single bulb hung from the ceiling, and the big spaces drank up all the light, so he’d begun to work outside in the morning sun, weather permitting. Around ten o’clock, he sensed movement in the periphery of his bifocals and raised his head to see a man standing in the heatstruck privet at the roadside, watching him. [REDACTED] called out, and the fellow struggled through the weeds and came up to the house. He seemed about fifty, a lean, fairly tall fellow wearing triple-seam bluejeans and a matching heavy denim shirt with the sleeves cut to the armpits. His baseball cap was of the same material, a plain-billed dome with no inscription. [REDACTED] had never seen a cap with nothing written on the front of it. “Where did you come from?” [REDACTED] asked.
“Town. I seen your note.”
“What? Oh, yes.” He stood up and began to look him over.
The man’s yellowed eyes darted up the side of the building. “I can carpenter good. My name’s Obadiah, but people call me Obie. It used to rile me when they called me that, but nowadays I just go along.” 

[REDACTED] studied him, looking for signals. “Can you paint?”
“Your name.”
“What?”
“You ain’t told me your name.”
“[REDACTED] Godhigh. Right now it’s Smith, but I’m going to change it to my ancestral name when I get a chance.”
“Some men can change like a porch lizard switches colors,” Obie said, focussing on [REDACTED]. “And some cain’t.” The man leaned off to the side and his skin was a cloudy blue-gray, as though he were ill in some exotic way. “I can paint a wall like a artist.”
[REDACTED] smirked. “Really. Like Michelangelo?”
Obie looked away. “I reckon. Only I use a roller.”
“What about electrical repairs?”
“It ain’t nothing I cain’t pick up. I can do one thing as good as another.” He spat into the grass.
When the man turned, [REDACTED] glimpsed part of a tattoo, half a spider crawling out of the collar of his shirt. Again he saw that the skin on his arms was a smudged cyanic color, mottled in incoherent patterns, as if the flesh had been cooked all over. “Are you from around here?”
“Over in [REDACTED].”
“Can’t find work there?”
“My wife and me been havin’ trouble, so I was stayin’ in my cousin’s travel trailer. Except now he wants to sell it.”
The men walked around to the wasp-haunted kitchen house and forced open the cocked door. [REDACTED] said he would buy a cot and the man could sleep there. They would try a working relationship for a few days. The one-room building contained a table with a porcelain top and a hide-bottomed chair, both sitting under an unfrosted light bulb hanging from the ceiling on a long cord, and Obie went in and scraped dust and fallen dirt-dauber nests off the table with the side of his hand. [REDACTED] returned to the big house and brought back bread, block cheese, and lunch meat, and they came to terms.
Obie stepped over to a window. He rubbed a hand over the cloudy glass and cleared a view out toward a collapsing shed. “You ever been married?”
[REDACTED] suddenly wanted a drink, and he sat down on the single chair. “One time. It lasted about four years, and then it was time to leave.”
Obie reached over his shoulder to scratch his back. “I married a religious woman and did all I could to please her. I even got saved and tithed out of what little pay I made. She run me off even though I done things for her no other man would of.” Obie looked down at the floor as though contemplating a scene of great sorrow. “It was a mystery why I did it.”
[REDACTED] bobbed his head. “Mine asked me to make more money, but I wanted to keep doing what I was doing. A manual typewriter and I were made for each other. I can make the big old Smith Coronas tap-dance like Fred Astaire.”
Obie looked up. “You left her, or she left you?”
“I think the motions were mutual.”
Obie leaned against the beaded-board wall. “You traded a woman for typewriters.”
At first, [REDACTED] felt insulted, but the way Obie made the comment suggested that he understood, that he himself had made some unusual trades in his time.
“I needed to follow my talent.”
Obie nodded. “I know about what a man thinks he needs.” And with this he began unbuttoning his shirt. “You think you need to make a statement in life. But it don’t seem like nothin’ you do gets taken serious.”
[REDACTED] felt a slight rush of panic as Obie opened his shirt wide to reveal a tattoo of a tailless dragon over his liver and one of a disarmed battleship across his hairless chest. Below the vessel was a dolphin jumping out of the sea, but its fin and its eyes were blurred, as though by an industrial accident. All the skin from his shoulders down to his waistband was fine-line tattoo work partially eaten away, the flesh abraded and inflamed. “It’s a sight, ain’t it.”
“What in the world happened to you?”
“My tattoo collection. I’m gettin’ it burnt off. I got my arms did already. I found a cut-rate Indian doctor to do it over in Poxley, but those treatments still cost like the devil and I’m about tapped out. It’s why I got to go to work.”
“What changed your mind about those things?” The colors, he noticed, were garish and the designs incongruous.
Obie stood up and looked out the door toward the big house. “Maybe I don’t need ’em no more. Get a little older, you need less and less.”
[REDACTED] jabbed a finger at what was left of the dolphin. “Well, there’s enough work around here so you can afford to burn yourself white as toilet paper.”
The night was warm and [REDACTED] turned in his damp sheets, waking briefly at gray dawn and hearing someone walking, inside and out. When he got up at eight and made coffee, Obie came to the big house’s kitchen door and waited outside the screen looking in, as if knocking were beside the point.
“I got a startin’ list for you.”
[REDACTED] looked up from his coffee. “A list of what?”
“Of things to fix the house.”
“Come in here.” He took the smudged sheet where he sat at the wobbly table. “Good God, this is over a thousand dollars’ worth of stuff. Where’d you get the prices?”
“I borried the phone in the hall.”
He shook his head. “That’s too much.”
“Delivery is free above a thousand dollars. It’ll save you seven per cent, man said.”
[REDACTED] saw that Obie was looking at the ceiling, already working in his mind. “Well, what’s on the schedule first?”
“Electric wire. Then low-lustre paint for a couple of these rooms.” He smiled, showing big, evenly spaced teeth. “Hide the cracks and raise the spirits.”
After the Poxley Lumber Company truck left, Obie began work. By Saturday, the difference in the place was palpable. In the kitchen, he installed a new gray breaker box, and two walls in [REDACTED]’s room were patched, sanded, and painted an airy antique white. [REDACTED] paid Obie in cash on the next Saturday morning and drove him to Dr. Setumahaven’s office in Poxley, dropping him off and then going shopping. When he picked him up after the treatments, the expression Obie wore was that of a martyr, his eyes misshapen and dark with pain.
“You look like a boiled lobster,” [REDACTED] told him.
Obie gently lowered himself into the passenger seat. “I got my money’s worth today, all right.”
They rode along the dusty road without talking, and [REDACTED] imagined that he could smell the laser burn.
That day, Obie mixed mortar and began patching the first-floor exterior wall. The next week, he worked on the downstairs bathroom, and the rest of the month he repaired the sewer line out to the septic tank and installed a cheap air-conditioner in [REDACTED]’s room. The men tolerated each other and ate supper together on a card table set on the creaking floor of the big dining room. One rainy day, they sat under the wavering glow of a shorting light fixture while Obie feebly complained about how little [REDACTED] was paying him.
“Yeah, but you’re getting cheap room and board.”
Obie glanced up at the dusty brass disk holding a circle of twenty-five-watt bulbs. “I got to share it with the squirrels and the rats. You ought to charge them half the rent.”
[REDACTED] motioned to Obie’s neck, where Dr. Setumahaven’s laser had reduced the spider to a dim blue shadow. “You’re still making enough to get rid of your collection.”
“If you paid me more, I could get ’em burnt off faster.”
“I don’t understand why you bother at all. I mean, who cares? The doctor’s gotten rid of all the ones people can see.”
Obie rubbed his narrow face, his whiskers crackling like coarse steel wool. “I used your phone to call my wife. She said she might could take me back if I got rid of all my idols. She calls ’em idols.”
“Take you back?” [REDACTED] gave him a startled look. “Didn’t you tell me that woman beat you with a broom?”
Obie looked down at his plate and smiled a faraway smile. “Aw, she’s just a woman. Can’t hurt a man unless she buys a gun.”
[REDACTED] stood up and began to clear the table. “Next time you go see Setumahaven, tell him to stick that laser in your left ear. Light up your brains.”
Obie watched him leave the room and called after him, “Ain’t you never lonesome for some company?”
[REDACTED] came back in and stood behind his chair. “I’ve got to the point where I can live alone. I’ve built up my business, and now I’ve got this big house to keep me busy and give me a place in the world.”
The light fixture made a futzing sound, and Obie blinked. “So this here place makes you feel important?”
[REDACTED] threw his arms wide to the echoing room. “I am important. What do you say to that?”
Obie turned toward the window, where the antique glass distorted everything beyond. “I say I need another box of roofin’ nails so I can fix the tin on top of your importance.”
The work went on through September, and Obie slaved over the corroded wiring and the slow-running plumbing. He ran his hands over every board in the building, finding where thousands of square nails had pulled free from the shrunken lumber. After [REDACTED] had gone to bed one night, he heard the back door to the main hall scuff open. Figuring Obie had come in for a drink of ice water, which was all he allowed him to have from the refrigerator, he dropped off to sleep. Soon, he was awakened by talking, just parts of words bouncing up the stairs to his single bed. He crept to the head of the stairway and heard Obie use a soft and rhythmic voice he had never heard before. He listened hard and heard him say, “Save me, O God, for the waters threaten my life; I am sunk in the abysmal swamp where there is no foothold.” [REDACTED] walked down until he could see Obie seated at the old phone table, a flashlight shining down on an open Bible. He wondered if the call was long-distance, if he should yell out to stop reading Scripture into the phone at twelve cents a minute. Someone on the other end of the line must have said something, for Obie’s voice stopped, and then said, “I’m workin’, but I ain’t able to save much. He cusses me and charges me for everthing. Sent me to town in his car to get tar and took the gas out my pay. What? Read Psalm 64? It’ll cover him, will it?” [REDACTED] coughed, and Obie shined the flashlight up to the dark landing. “I got to go now. I’ll call you fore long.” He hung up and raised his face.
[REDACTED]’s voice sliced down on him. “Was that that woman in [REDACTED]?”
“It was.”
“You planning on reading the whole Bible to her?”
“No.”
“I’m glad to hear that, but when I get the bill I’ll let you know the charges.”
Obie turned his head toward the back door and looked as if he might speak, but the only sound that drifted up to [REDACTED] was the click of the flashlight and then the invisible creaking of the hallway’s boards.
On Wednesday, he drove to Chance Poxley’s store to buy a night table. Mr. Poxley leaned on the end of the counter and watched him walk in the door. The old man screwed up his face as though he smelled carrion.
“Do for you?” 
“I need a small inexpensive table to put beside my bed.”
“Uh-huh. That Parker boy still workin’ for you?”
“He is, slowly.”
“How much you payin’ him, anyhow?”
[REDACTED] turned his head toward the store’s cheap furniture, then looked back. “Has he been complaining to you?”
Mr. Poxley focussed on [REDACTED]’s eyes. “That boy’s a good worker. I believe he can fix a broke horse.”
“He’s all right.”
“What you payin’ him?”
“That’s between me and him. He ought to pay me just to put up with his spooky ways.”
“You bring him into town today?”
“He’s over at Setumahaven’s.”
“I heard he had them on the bottoms of his feet. That must hurt like fire to have one took off there.”
“I don’t think about it.”
Mr. Poxley blinked. “What do you think about, Mr. Typewriter Man?”
[REDACTED] looked at him. “What do you think I ought to think about?”
“How about payin’ somebody does good work a livin’ wage.”
“Look, I admit he’s a good worker and not bad to have on the place, but he doesn’t bear the expense of commuting or of owning a car. Again, has he been complaining?”
Chance Poxley swung his head away. “That one won’t complain.”
“Well, by damn, show me a table, then.”
He finished at the furniture storelong before he was supposed to pick up Obie at the doctor’s office. He parked his Dodge, angrily thought over Mr. Poxley’s criticisms, and then went into the red brick city library, where he found a small Bible and walked into the stacks with it lest someone see him. He turned to Psalm 64 and read:
Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked,
From that noisy crowd of evildoers,
Who sharpen their tongues like swords
And aim their words like deadly arrows.
He slammed the book shut, holding the cover down as though it might spring back open accusingly. Between two musty stacks of dog-eared history books, he waited for the words to have some effect, but he felt not a thing, no change at all, though he couldn’t resist touching his tongue to the roof of his mouth.
When Obie climbed into the Dodge that afternoon, he was bent forward with pain. [REDACTED] looked at him intently. “I wouldn’t give anyone money to hurt me. If I were you, I’d have saved up for an automobile instead.”
Obie closed his eyes and leaned his head against the cracked window. “What do I have need of a automobile, with no place to go?”
“Which one did they finish up today?”
“The battleship. Feels like he dug it out of me with a pocketknife.”
[REDACTED] checked his rearview mirror before backing up. “Will you be able to work on the upstairs porch?”
“Gimme a couple hours. I’ll see.”
He drove into [REDACTED] the next day, delivering refurbished typewriters and picking up dirty, nonfunctional machines from three behind-the-times businesses and two antique shops. He collected a few accounts and added up his money. The weather had been unseasonably warm, and he considered buying Obie a small electric fan but decided against it, because it would just make him unhappy if he ever had to live without one again. It was cruel, he thought, to make things too comfortable for someone going down in life.
Two weeks later, Obie walked up to [REDACTED] where he was working on an old gray Royal on the front porch and told him that he had an appointment with the doctor on Wednesday.
“I’m not going into town that day.”
“It’s important. I got to get the big one on my back burnt off.”
He put down a slim screwdriver. “You have one on your back? What for?”
“It’s a long story.”
[REDACTED] straightened up in his tin chair. “Let me see it.”
Obie unbuttoned his denim shirt and let it down and turned.
[REDACTED] put a hand to his chin. “Good Lord, it’s Jesus.”
“He cost me a lot.”
He adjusted his glasses. “It’s a good job for such a large image. Too bad I can’t skin it off you and frame it or something.”
Obie jerked up his shirt and began buttoning it. “Can you take me to town Wednesday or not?”
“Maybe so. If you pay my gas.” Obie stared at him and [REDACTED] wondered how he could be such a mooch, expecting him to ride him around like a free taxi. “Now, what do you think about that railing up there?”
“I reckon it ought to be changed,” Obie said, tucking in his shirt. “You might lean on it and fall and break your neck.”
[REDACTED] waited outside the doctor’s office, dozing behind the wheel, dreaming of tall gleaming pillars and him standing between them in an immaculate white suit. When the door on the passenger side opened, he woke up feeling sore and sour. He looked at his watch and frowned. “What did your red-dot doctor think about erasing God off you?”
Obie sat with his back away from the seat. “He only took him off the outside,” he whispered.
“Are you sure he didn’t replace him with Buddha?”
“Can we go on to the house?”
“Aw, can’t you take a joke?”
Obie rolled his burning eyes toward him. “Do you have any aspirin?”
“There’s a tin in the glove compartment. But don’t ask me to stop and buy you a Coke.”
In late October, the money finally ran out. [REDACTED] announced that he couldn’t pay Obie anymore, but he would let him live on the place for free if he painted the outside. Obie walked out onto the front lawn under the two-hundred-year-old oak and stared. [REDACTED] stood between a pair of crazed pillars, watching him. After two minutes he called out, “What are you thinking?”
“I’m figurin’ it would take me sixty gallons of primer and paint and a full year to do it myself. It needs to be sanded, washed, and scraped, and I’d have to live here three years past the end of the job to take the value out in rent.”
[REDACTED] stepped into the yard and looked up at the complex eaves, the paint-sucking galleries. “We can work something out.”
“No, we cain’t. I’m finished with my treatments. Setumahaven give me some fading chemical, and Monday I’ll go to that tanning parlor by the cornmeal plant.”
[REDACTED] took a step backward, startled. “What are you talking about? You can’t leave.”
Obie spread his arms like a gaunt bird ready to take flight. “The old me’s gone. The new me’s got to move on down the road.”
Over the next several days, Obie’s color changed from a mix of blood and ink to a mildly unhealthy skim-milk hue, and after several sessions at the Red Bug Tanning Salon his skin turned an even, rosy manila. One night, [REDACTED] decided that Obie might stay and work for him if he went into his meagre retirement savings and paid him a real salary.
The next morning, [REDACTED] got out of bed and fried a ham steak for breakfast, Obie’s favorite. After the table was set, he went out into the yard, and his heart skipped a beat when he saw that the door to the old kitchen was wide open. Inside, the cot was empty, and Obie’s duffelbag, always in the same spot under it, was gone. He began to panic and stared up at his sickly house, which loomed over him, leprous and crippled. He raced into Poxley, but no one at the bus station had seen him, and Dr. Setumahaven’s office was closed. After driving around the town’s narrow streets for half an hour, he parked and went into Chance Poxley’s store.
The old man came out of his office and squinted at him. “What?”
“I can’t find my hired man.”
“Well.”
“He just left without a word.”
Mr. Poxley leaned over and pressed the Clear button on his adding machine. “That so?”
“Have you seen him?”
The old man shook his head. “It’s been a while. He did tell me he’d finished up with the skin doc. I don’t think he had much need of your job anymore.”
“He told me he used to stay with a cousin. Where’s he live?”
“He’s not there. That boy pitched him out to begin with.”
[REDACTED] stared at the store’s broad plate-glass windows, emblazoned with shoe-polish lettering: “Cash Talks.” “I’ve got to find him.”
“Unless I miss my guess, you can’t afford him anymore.”
“What are you saying?”
Mr. Poxley looked down and his voice softened. “What do you need him for, anyway?”
[REDACTED]’s mouth fell open a bit and he focussed on a new gas range to the right of the counter. He could fix a typewriter, but nothing else in the world, and he didn’t know if he could continue living in the old mansion, unable as he was to keep it nailed together. But the real problem came upon him as suddenly as thunder. He’d be alone. The house and its canyon rooms would swallow him up, the only sound would be his own footsteps thrown back in his face, and when he stopped moving he’d meet a silence as vast as night.
In the middle of November, a freakish weather pattern set in—howling wind with ice in its teeth. [REDACTED] was adjusting a Royal 440, and around sundown his hands began to shake. The single-pane windows and the shrunken doors shivered in their frames. There was no insulation anywhere and what little residual heat there was soon leaked through the ceiling lath. He put on sweaters and two jackets and remembered that the house had no functioning heating system. The squatters had used tin trash burners, running the stovepipes through the windows, but all that had been thrown out. Obie had told him that the fireplace flues were no longer safe, that the chimneys were falling apart in the attic. He climbed into bed under every sheet and quilt he owned, deciding that the next night would be warmer.
The next night brought a whip-cracking gale, and a weatherman on his car’s radio announced that a solid week of unusually cold temperatures was on the way. [REDACTED] drove into town and bought an electric heater, but under the fifteen-foot ceilings the device was like a spark at the North Pole. The third night, he slept in his car with the motor running, but, when he checked the gas gauge on waking, he knew he couldn’t afford to do that again. He got out of the back seat cursing the oil industry and the whole Middle East and loaded up five repaired typewriters for delivery in [REDACTED].
The fourth night, he became ill and for two weeks suffered through a cold, which turned into influenza. After a teasing warm spell, December’s weather came back mortally cold, and he moved out of the mansion into Obie’s little kitchen house. The electric heater and the old wood-burning range together would keep the room at fifty degrees, and he could sleep. But it was a miserable place to stay, its attic full of manic squirrels, its floor a dull smear of ground-in soot and dirt, its walls impregnated with the oily emanations of ten thousand meals.
One day in mid-December, there was a knock at the kitchen-house door and he found Chance Poxley standing in the tall dead grass, wearing a small tweed fedora, shading his eyes with one hand.
[REDACTED] held the door open only a little. “What can I do for you?”
“Can I step in? This wind is about to freeze me female.”
He backed into the room, and the old man came up the three wooden steps. When his eyes adjusted, he looked around. “My God, you’re livin’ like a jailbird in here.” 
“Next year I’ll arrange to keep the big house warm.”
Mr. Poxley shook his head. “I hear in the old days it took three servants workin’ full time to keep all the fireplaces going with coal. You can’t even buy coal anymore.”
“Did you come out here to discuss my heating problems?”
“No.” The old man handed him a sheet of paper.
“What’s this?”
“You’re two months behind on your payments.”
[REDACTED] reddened. He stood staring at the invoice for a long time as the squirrels began chasing one another above their heads. “Are you sure I haven’t paid these?”
“If you can show me the cancelled checks, we’ll know, won’t we?”
“I’ll examine my records, and if they indicate that I’ve missed paying you I’ll mail you a check.”
Mr. Poxley put out a hand. “I’d appreciate a check right now.”
“But I can’t do that. I might wind up paying you twice.”
The old man lowered his arm and looked over at the smoking stove. “Let me tell you some facts. People that take over a place like this have a lot of money. They can afford to hire a bunch of contractors to do a proper restoration.”
“My dream is to do just that.”
“At the rate you’re goin’, it’ll take you a hundred years just to make the place look second-rate. And if you stay out here it’ll kill you.”
[REDACTED] folded his arms. “It’s my heritage.”
“There’s people that’ll pay a bit of money for this property. With what you sell it for, you could get a tight little house with a shop out back.”
“And you’d get your money for the refrigerator and the air-conditioner.”
Chance Poxley fixed him with his watery eyes and said in a low voice, “Look, if you don’t at least make up the payments, I’ll have to put a lien on the place. So will the folks down at the lumberyard, who I hear tell have advanced you considerable supplies on credit.”
[REDACTED] opened the door and pointed outside. “You’ll get your money.”
The old man looked into the weedy yard. “Well, I got to admit I’ve never been throwed out of a worse place than this.” He eased down the steps and turned around. “You know, I didn’t come here to cause you any trouble. But I got to tell you, when the sheriff found out an owner was on this property he checked into the tax records and told me he don’t care what the lawyers say, you owe county tax on this place back to 1946.” The old man’s hat blew off and his thin white hair was torn by the wind. “I didn’t want to be the one to tell you.”
[REDACTED] waved him away as though he were a stray dog. “Get off my property,” he yelled. “I can buy and sell every damned one of you.” He didn’t know where this cutting voice had come from, its load of arrogance perhaps conjured up out of the red dirt around him, the dead fields and parched lumber of his inheritance.
[REDACTED] sat down that night to balance his checkbook and found that he’d have to transfer money from his tiny emergency fund at the bank in [REDACTED] to hold off his creditors for a week or so. After that, he was bankrupt.
One night of gun-blue sky, the temperature went down to nine degrees. [REDACTED] had stuffed the cookstove with scrap wood he’d scavenged and the stovepipe was glowing red halfway up to the flimsy ceiling. An old Remington manual was set up on the table and it refused to move when he hit the Tab key, the fresh oil on its parts turned to gum by the cold. At about eleven o’clock, he had to go to the bathroom, so he put on padded slippers and all the clothes in the room and opened the door to the night. The wind was a black punishment, and his bones were rattling by the time he reached the back door of the big house. As soon as he stepped inside, his feet began to sting, and when he turned on the hall light he could see water running deep on the floor. He splashed over to the foot of the stairs and looked up at a ladder of water coming down, a scrim of ice on the edges like a mountain stream. Upstairs, he found that a frozen toilet had shattered and fallen away from the wall, snapping off the feed line at floor level, and water was jetting up to the ceiling. He had no idea where he could turn the water off. And only one person could tell him.
He sat next to the phone table in the hall and hooked his feet on a chair rung to keep them out of the water. Pulling out his service receipts from the drawer under the phone, he studied the column of calls until he found a number in [REDACTED]. He had done so much for Obie that the man should at least tell him where a valve was. Looking up, he watched lines of icicles forming where water sluiced through cracks in the plaster.
After many rings, someone in [REDACTED] picked up the phone, and he asked to speak to Obie Parker. “This is his former employer,” he shouted into the receiver. “And I need to ask him a question.”
A woman’s reedy voice answered, sounding self-righteous and glad to be so. “Do you have any idea a-tall what time it is?”
“Yes, I’m sorry, but this is important.”
“Obadiah is asleep, and a workin’ man needs all the rest he’s due, so I’m not a-goin’ to roust him out of a warm bed, Mister.”
[REDACTED]’s voice rose in pitch. “But I’ve got a broken water pipe and—”
“A broke pipe, you say? Mister, there’s people in the world got a whole lot worse than that wrong in their lives. They got the cancer, they got children sellin’ dope, they got trailers blown apart by the tornado wind that leaves them standin’ in the yard starin’ up at the stars. But you know what? Ain’t a one of them callin’ me up at twelve-ten at night to whine about no broke water pipe.”
“It’s eleven-ten.”
“Mister, you caught up in your own little world so much you think the rest of God’s universe is in your time zone. It’s twelve-ten in [REDACTED].” 

A piano-size raft of plaster detached from the ceiling and fell at his feet, covering him with a surf of freezing water. “Good Lord, lady, I’ve got to talk to your husband.”
“People in Hell got to have strawberry shortcake, but they don’t get it.” She hung up.
He lowered the buzzing receiver and looked down the long, swamped hall toward the front of the house that was his glory. He knew everything about it, and at the same time nothing at all. The wind flattened the tall dry grass next to the pillars in a dead shout that told him not a thing that would help. Suddenly, he was startled by the jangling phone.
“Hello?”
“Hey. It’s Obie. I heard my wife a-talkin’ to you.”
The voice was like a warm, comforting hand, but [REDACTED] couldn’t help shouting, “Where the hell’s the water valve to the house? I’m flooded out, here.”
“If you got water on the floors, don’t go after that pump switch in the panel box. It’ll knock you into the next world. Look under the sink and turn that third valve to the right.”
He sloshed to the kitchen and did as he was told. With a house-shaking crash, the dining-room plaster fell all at once. Shivering, he ran back to the phone, wet up to the knees, and climbed onto the chair. “What do I do now, Obie? All the plaster in the place is coming down.”
The voice drifted in from [REDACTED], sleepy and soft. “You can’t afford no plaster crew, that’s for sure.” After a pause, he said, “Might be time to sell out.”
“Never,” he yelled into the receiver. “I’ll never leave here in a million years.”
“One time, I said I’d never give up my tattoos.”
“Thanks, but I don’t need your moralizing lesson. I need you to come back and fix things.”
“I’m sorry, Mr. Smith, but it sounds like things is past fixin’.”
Something dropped onto the kitchen floor like a truckload of gravel. “What can I do about the plaster?”
“That plaster’s the least of your problems.”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, if you don’t know I can’t tell you.”
The light fixture above [REDACTED]’s head filled with water and popped off in a shower of blue sparks, and he dropped the phone. He was blind and trembling in the watery dark, and he began to struggle down the hall toward his outbuilding, desperate for the warmth of the red-hot stove. When he opened the back door, he saw that the old kitchen house had turned into a windblown orange fireball, streamers of flame running toward him through the grass. He stumbled outside and began stamping at the brush until he understood that with its brick porch and pillars the big house would probably not catch fire. Through a sidelight at the rear door he watched the flames race in the wind, flowing under his car and fanning out to light the corncrib, the smokehouse, and the big sagging barn, which went up in a howl of crackling lumber and dried-out hay. At one point, he tried to call the Poxley volunteer fire department, but the creosote pole that supported the telephone wire had already gone up like a torch, taking his service away. In ten minutes, the fire circled the house, and he climbed up to the belvedere to track its progress as it burned to the ditches surrounding his tract, taking out the pump house and a tractor shed, and incinerating his Dodge, which burned hot and high, killing most of the foliage of the live oak shading it.
At dawn, he could see that but for the roadside oaks everything was gone, burned off the face of the earth as if by a powerful beam of light, the house standing naked and singed in a field of white ash. He stayed up in the belvedere, hoping the new sun would warm him, but daylight brought a shrill wind crying like the voices of all the families, wealthy and destitute, who had lived in his house, who, each in turn, had given it up through death or duress and left it to falter. He stood unshaved and burning with fever, dressed in sopping house slippers and several layers of old robes and cotton jackets, waiting—for what, he wasn’t sure. But in a few minutes he heard a car on the gravel road, looked down through the bubbled glass, and saw them. Even from a distance, he could tell that Mr. Poxley’s mouth had fallen open at the sight of the guttering outbuildings. He and a big deputy stepped out of the police car and walked to the roadside fence. Each man held down his hat with one hand and bore a folded piece of paper in the other, liens and tax bills that would take the place away, and [REDACTED] felt house and history shrink to nothing beneath him—a void replaced by a vision of himself, dressed in borrowed clothes and defeat, spirited away that very evening on a lurching bus bound for [REDACTED] and sitting next to some untaught, impoverished person, perhaps even another long-suffering and moralizing carpenter. 

