SHE’S THE ONE
By Tessa Hadley


The winter after her brother killed himself, Ally got a job at a writers’ center near her parents’ house, helping out with admin in the office. It wasn’t a satisfactory job, only part time and not well paid. She was twenty-two. She had just finished her degree in English literature and should have been building toward some sort of career; she had planned to move to Manchester, where she had been at university. But everything like that had had to be put on hold, while at home her family melted down into a kind of madness. It was a relief just to leave the madness behind and drive across the moors four mornings a week to the center, several miles away. She had the use of a car, because for the moment her mum wasn’t going to work.
The moors that winter were often under a crust of snow—not enough to blanket them in white, but a mean, dirty frosting on the hard earth and wilted shrubs. Ally didn’t mind the bitter weather. Her guilt at getting out, even for a few hours, would fall away as she drove, leaving the town behind. Sometimes when she parked at the center, crunching into the gravelled space between the kitchen and the high black garden wall, where the stones were mossy and ferns grew in the cracks, she was really all right for a moment. I’m really all right, she would think, carefully, lightly, as she pulled the key from the ignition, trying not to examine the sensation too closely or lose it with any sudden movement, as if it were a thin-filmed shiny bubble poised in her chest.
The center was in a big bleak house built in the early nineteenth century, isolated in a dip in the middle of the moors, beside a river. It had been modernized to suit its new function. A couple of outbuildings, along from the kitchen, had been converted into a studio for writing workshops and an office, homely with the comfortable ticking of computers and photocopier and fax machine. Fluorescent Post-it notes were stuck to the office shelves, reminding the staff of the things that needed doing, the set procedures for each group of students that came and went. Ally quickly mastered these; she was capable and sensible. The organizers of the center, Kit and Sam, were pleased to have her helping out. Also, because Ally had always loved reading, the idea was that she would enjoy meeting the writers who taught there—there would be something in it for her, too.
Ally had got the job through the woman her mum had worked for as a secretary, when she was still at work. This woman was a barrister in employment law, and she was on the board of trustees for the center. In some people, the family’s disaster had produced this phenomenon—a crazy energy of organization on their behalf. Ally was grateful for the job, but it made her mother angry: “As usual, she comes barging in, thinking she knows best.” Mum was also angry, on the other hand, at their neighbors in the close of ex-council houses, some of whom had been her friends for years but now crept in and out trying to avoid meeting her. Ally appreciated their difficulty. What were they supposed to say, after the first few heartfelt encounters? All ordinary transactions were contaminated: “How are you?” and “How’s it going?” and “Nice day.” Even “Bloody awful day,” which it usually was, would seem to imply an ordinary scale of gloom, which her family was far removed from and couldn’t possibly yet find a way back to.
Hilda came to the center for a week long fiction-writing course. She was one of those students you learned to pick out at the first encounter as a potential flash point, someone who might easily be offended, or offend others; you treated such students with special consideration, but kept them at arm’s length. She was Canadian, probably in her mid-fifties, small, with thick, perfectly white hair chopped off in a crisp line at her shoulders; she was a vegan, and had requested special dietary arrangements in advance. When everyone gathered around the wood stove in the drawing room of the old house for introductions, Hilda chose to sit cross-legged and straight-backed on the floor, her slight neat body supple like a child’s. Although she wasn’t unfriendly, Ally noticed that she didn’t join in with the others’ self-deprecation: a touch of impatience snapped in her expression. Yet she obviously suffered when she had to read out her own work. She must have been good-looking when she was younger, with Scandinavian features, wide mouth and hard cheekbones, something raw in her eyes, their hazel irises flecked with darker brown. She fixed the tutors, while they were talking, with a steady, critical, attentive gaze.
Although Ally loved books, she had realized since she began working at the center that she didn’t have much interest in knowing how they were written—how characters were developed or plots structured or any of the other things the teachers held forth about and the students soaked up so avidly. All of them, writers and would-be writers, were consumed with a sort of fever over this process of writing and being published; some of the would-bes seemed to hope that by rubbing up close enough against the published ones they might catch something. That week, it was her turn to take the tutors into town for the mid-course lunch. Ann said that she liked Hilda—she’d had an interesting life. But Jim, who was from Glasgow, tall and loose-bodied, with a bald patch like a monk’s tonsure, complained that she was wearing him down with her persistence.
“She’s stuck to my elbow whenever I look down, asking whether I’ve read her rewrites yet, or what I think of Robertson Davies. She’s so intense.”
“Intense isn’t a bad thing.”
“What’s her novel about?” Ally asked.
“In the sixties, she hung around with arty types in some sort of commune. The central character has an affair with a rock star. It ought to be more interesting. How many Canadian rock stars do you know?”
They could think of only Robbie Robertson. They decided that it wasn’t him—the character was a singer-songwriter.
“She does this awful folksy thing: he’s called the Guitar Player. ‘The Guitar Player did this,’ ‘The Guitar Player did that, stuck a spliff under his strings, sent out his lonely song into the night, across the lake.’ Imagine writing about a crowd of egomaniacal hippies doing drugs and it’s not funny? Also, there’s too much nature in it. One tree will do, as far as I’m concerned. Symbolism. One tree can stand in for the whole caboodle.”
Some of the writers who came to tutor the courses were nice, but not all of them were. Some were funny about the students, especially the crazies, the ones who brought the two thousand handwritten pages of their novel in a plastic bag, or wrote from the perspective of a donkey abused by its owner. These eccentrics might turn out to be geniuses but usually didn’t. Ally wasn’t disappointed in the writers: she hadn’t expected anything from them in the first place; it hadn’t occurred to her to be interested in writers as individuals beyond their work. To her relief, no one whose books she’d read ever came to the center, although sometimes she had to pretend to have read the writers who did. The writers could be fairly crazy, too; you had to be vigilant not to trip up over their vanity and anxiety. Luckily, most of her favorites were dead.
At the end of the course, on her evaluation sheet, Hilda made a number of points about how it could have been better organized. Under the question “What was the most important thing you learned in your time here?,” she left the space empty. A few weeks later, Ally stood behind her in a queue at the supermarket. She hadn’t realized that Hilda lived nearby, but she couldn’t have mistaken her, with her crisp white hair, in stretch leggings and trainers and a red down jacket. Ally wasn’t working that afternoon. She had told her mum to go to bed and promised to cook tea. In her wire basket she had sausages and eggs and tins of baked beans and a plastic pack of four jam doughnuts, one each (she had another brother, James, fourteen): she’d put on weight since she’d been home, not much, but enough to make her aware of some new soft fat around her waistline and cushioning her chin. Outside it was already dark at four o’clock; a sleety rain was driving across the supermarket car park. In Hilda’s basket there was olive oil, a tin of cannellini beans, fresh pasta, a lemon, a bottle of white wine.
Hilda had not noticed Ally waiting behind her, so Ally could easily not have said anything. Seeing the selection of things in Hilda’s basket, though—her brave indifference to her surroundings—Ally didn’t want her to go off into the night without acknowledgment.
“Hello, Hilda,” she said. “How’s the novel going?”
Usually it was the one question that couldn’t fail with course-goers. But Hilda turned from the checkout with a face of pure resentment, staring and challenging.
“Who are you? Were you on that course? I don’t remember you.”
People looked at them. Ally felt exposed, as if she were pretending to be something she wasn’t. Almost certainly some of the people looking would know what had happened to her family: it was a small town, and usually she was careful to make herself inconspicuous; her mother complained that she hid behind her long hair. While Ally explained, admitting that it was unlikely that Hilda would remember her—she’d mostly been in the office, present only once in the evening—Hilda was packing her shopping into the canvas bag she’d brought, deliberately, as if she had a system. She paid with a card, querying something on her bill.
“I thought the olive oil was one-eighty-nine?”
“That’s only if you buy two bottles,” the girl at the till said with flat indifference, not looking up from where she was staring at the slot that would spew the receipt. “If you only buy one, it’s two-nineteen. It’s a special offer.”
“That isn’t made very clear on the labelling on the shelf.”
Ally was aware that everything about Hilda, especially her ringing, reasonable, confident Canadian voice, was making the till girl resent and despise her.
“I’m sorry I didn’t recognize you,” Hilda said to Ally, but not warmly, when she was finished. She hiked the canvas bag onto her shoulder. “I’m in a hurry, anyway. I have to go.”
“It’s O.K., don’t worry.”
The till girl extended the same hostility to Ally: she had been outed now as belonging to Hilda’s type, cooking with olive oil, betraying themselves in oblivious loud voices. Even the most minor setbacks, in those months, could throw Ally completely. When she left the supermarket, Hilda was waiting for her, where the positive neon universe of shopping bordered on the smudged antimatter outside, cars plashing out of the car park through the wet.
“Shit, that was rude of me,” Hilda said. “What’s your name?”
“Ally. No, really, it’s all right.”
“Hey, you’re upset. I wasn’t that bad, was I? I think I owe you an explanation.”
“There’s other stuff. It’s just been a bad day.”
“You asked about my novel, that’s the thing. I’d waited a lot of years to write that novel. But, if you want to know, my novel died.”
Ally wiped her face on her coat sleeve. “I’m sorry. Perhaps it isn’t really that bad. Maybe if you put it away for a few weeks and looked at it again you’d feel differently about it. I’ve heard writers at the center say that.”
“No, really, take it from me, the novel died. What other stuff? What kind of bad day? Can I share? Can I give you a lift somewhere?”
Share? Ally thought. No, I don’t think so.
She said that she lived only ten minutes’ walk away, but Hilda insisted on driving her there—it was on her way—and it was easier to accept than to insist. The car was tiny, Continental-looking, green-colored with a lighter-green leaf stencilled on the door, as distinctively alien in the car park as Hilda had been among the shoppers inside. The interior smelled of dog, although there wasn’t one: Hilda explained that she had been at work all afternoon—she was a part-time receptionist at the health center—and she’d had to leave her dog at home.
“Drop me here, please,” Ally said. “This is the end of my street. There’s no point in turning up into it—you’d only get stuck in the one-way.”
Hilda pulled out of the stream of traffic onto the pavement. It was home time; there were queues at the lights going out of town. Ally’s parents’ house was on an estate at the town’s edge; ahead, she could just make out the black slopes of the moors. In the car, it was stuffy and slightly disgustingly cozy, the wipers going, the windows steaming up.
“So what was the other stuff?” Hilda asked, with the engine still running.
Ally, with her hand on the lever, about to open the car door, was thinking that nothing on earth was strong enough to pull this ugly secret out of her, least of all a woman who thought it mattered if her stupid novel had died. She was clenched up with the same resentment as the till girl, at Hilda’s ready wisdom shining about like a searchlight, the clean straight-backed way she sat at the steering wheel, her bag full of food for the wrong climate. The next moment, without even knowing that she’d changed her mind, she spilled over with her story—not the full version with all the details, but enough—surprising herself, as if she’d opened her mouth for something quite different.
“Je-sus,” Hilda said.
It was a relief to have told her. That would teach her not to ask. Ally watched the wipers push the water about in fan shapes on the windscreen.
“I can’t just drop you off on the side of the road after you’ve told me that. Can’t I come in? Won’t you come home with me? I’ve got dinner for two. We could talk.”
“I have to go. My mum’s waiting. I promised I’d make the tea. And I don’t need to talk.”
“O.K., understood. But listen. Will you give me your phone number? I’d love to call. May I? We’ll fix up something. Come and meet the dog.” 

Only to be free of her, Ally wrote the number on an envelope that Hilda found in her bag. That’ll be the last I hear from her, she thought.
“Your name’s Ally, right?” Hilda checked, leaning across the front seat after her.
Ally read novels, wrapped up in her duvet beside the central-heating radiator in her bedroom, borrowing them from the center and the public library, sometimes finishing one and starting another without even changing her position or getting up to make coffee, like an addict. She knew that this wasn’t the right kind of reading. Studying for her literature degree, she had learned how to analyze the words and the themes; she had worked dutifully on her essay style, imitating academic articles. She imagined the reading she did now as like climbing inside one of those deep old beds she’d seen in a museum, with a sliding door to close behind you: even as she was suffering with a book and could hardly bear it, felt as if her heart would crack with emotion or with outrage at injustice, the act of reading it enclosed and saved her. Sometimes when she moved back out of the book and into her own life, just for a moment she could see her circumstances with a new interest and clarity, as if they were happening to someone else.
It was around this time that Ally’s mum started wearing Ryan’s shirts under her clothes. The first time Ally caught her doing it, she arrived home early one lunchtime, and when she came in the back door Mum looked up with a guilty face from washing dishes at the sink. Through all those weeks, their house had never lapsed from its perfect tidiness and order. Last thing at night, her parents still rinsed out the coffee cups, plumped up the cushions on the sofa, unplugged the television. Her mother picked up threads from the carpet and put them in the wastepaper basket. Ally knew right away when she came into the kitchen that something was wrong in her mother’s shape, something bulky and distorting, when usually she was petite and trim. Ryan hadn’t been enormous for an eighteen-year-old, but on his mother his checked lumberjack shirt was swamping, enveloping. Her thin neck looked scrawny, poking out through the top of it; her neat faded face without its makeup seemed scoured clean. She hadn’t pulled the collar of the shirt out over the neck of her sweatshirt, as if she were hoping that no one would notice it, but it stuck up anyway.
“What are you doing wearing that thing?”
She shouldn’t have said anything, but she couldn’t help it.
Swapping clothes was the kind of thing that Ryan had done with his girlfriend, Yvonne. Yvonne would come downstairs after the two of them had been shut up for hours in his bedroom, pink-faced, wearing one of Ryan’s tops, pulling the too long sleeves down over her hands, flaunting to the world this outward sign of her feminine smallness snuggled against his bulk. When Mum bought Ryan a perfectly good pair of black Thinsulate gloves, he exchanged them for some silly cheap spangly ones of Yvonne’s. No one in the family had exactly objected to this at the time, but there was no doubt that they’d thought it soppy. They’d teased Ryan for being sentimental—he was like their dad, still moony over Mum after all these years. Mum, in particular, didn’t have much time for Yvonne. Now she was wearing his shirt herself, and it was a sign of how far she had been broken down.
“It makes me feel better if I can smell him.”
Ally wrapped her arms around her from behind. She pressed her face into her neck, sniffing the shirt collar. Her mum held herself stiffly apart inside the embrace.
“It doesn’t smell of anything, except fabric softener.”
“Underneath it I can smell him.”
Ally willed herself to remember real things about her brother, neutral things, uncontaminated by the new aura, like worship and dread, that was attached to the idea of him. She remembered that after he’d finished his A2 exams in the summer, for example, when he was supposed to be looking for a job, he had played his Nintendo Wii in the afternoons, downstairs in the sitting room, in the boxers and T-shirt and socks he had slept in, Ally protesting at the sight of his thickly hairy legs. Her mother wouldn’t have wanted to wrap herself in the smell of him then. Ally longed to climb back inside the safety of that time, when none of them wanted too much of one another.
There had been some tormented to-and-fro between the two families, Ryan’s and Yvonne’s, telephone calls and visits, breakdowns and comfortings, an evening when Yvonne’s mother called Ally’s mum, begging her to talk to Yvonne, because she was threatening to do what Ryan had done, “since everyone blamed her for it anyway.” Yvonne was one of those miniature girls whom teen-age boys love: their smallness seems to promise that they will be sweetly malleable. She had a mass of curls the color of ripe wheat, tight golden skin, a child’s body so pliant that she could still do cartwheels and backflips. She wrote all over her hard tiny hands with ballpoint pen: telephone numbers, silly faces that changed their expression when she moved her fingers. But actually Yvonne wasn’t malleable—she was steely. She’d had Ryan running around after her whims as if she were a princess. “She might as well enjoy it,” Ally’s mum had said back then. “She’ll be a dowdy little cow by the time she’s thirty.”
The awful intimacy between the two families subsided after the first weeks. They drew apart; they couldn’t speak to one another anymore. In those sessions they had dragged too deep, dredging up some rotten taste from the bottom of their lives which tainted all their interactions afterward. Then Yvonne began texting Ally, and lying in wait for James on his way home from school. Even James knew not to tell Mum about this. Yvonne claimed that she only wanted advice on what she should do with the stuff that Ryan had given her; she made James take a plastic bag full of his CDs. “Chuck it all out,” Ally texted back. “If you don’t want it.”
At the inquest, it all came out about the letter that Ryan had left, with messages for Yvonne—how amazing she was, how his life wasn’t worth living without her. In the context, these seemed less like loving compliments than like punishments. Ally could imagine how it must feel to have these ideas stuck to you, impossible to clean off. But she couldn’t make herself like Yvonne any better.
Hilda rang her.
“Ally? Is that Ally? Remember me? I was the bitch in the supermarket. You’re having a hell of a time. Why don’t you come out here and yell about it?”
Ally felt remote from anyone who talked like this. But her mum encouraged her to get out, make a new friend. Most of the girls Ally had known at school had moved away from home, to go to university or to find jobs. She’d had a boyfriend in Manchester, but that relationship had melted away in the fierce assault of the first days of crisis. She hadn’t wanted him anywhere near it.
“She’s not exactly a friend, Mum. She’s older than you.”
“Well, someone you can talk to. It’s not good for you, being stuck here all the time with us. At least James has got school.”
“I don’t know why everyone thinks I need to talk.”
She called in at Hilda’s one afternoon, after she had finished work at the center. The cottage wasn’t where she’d thought it was. She had to drive around for a while before she found it, at the top of a hill a mile outside Kirby, with a stand of woods beyond it. Hilda in her red down jacket came out with the dog as she parked: it was a short-haired terrier, alert and intelligent, white with a brown patch over one eye. Hilda proposed that they take a walk right away, before it got dark. Ally hadn’t imagined them walking. She was wearing her pink trainers, and had to borrow Wellingtons from Hilda. They followed a path invisible under the snow, down toward the woods along the side of a big L-shaped field, the dog scouting ahead of them, racing back on her tracks to herd her humans together, straining her ears yearningly at the perturbed, watchful sheep. The afternoon was still and soundless, frozen. There had been a fresh fall of snow the night before, and the fences and trees stood out black against it. Already the moon had risen, a flake of waxy alabaster in a blue sky thin with light.
Hilda complained about the farmer whose land they were walking on. She said that she had contacted the R.S.P.C.A. because he didn’t treat the foot rot in his sheep, and that he’d tried to stop her walking there, although it was a public right of way. It was true that quite a few of the sheep seemed to be hobbling on three legs, or half kneeling, their front legs bent at the joint. Ally worried that the farmer would come out to confront them. She didn’t want to have to take sides. As she tramped beside Hilda on the way back, the day draining out of the sky seemed to empty her, too, leaving her weightless. When they arrived back at the cottage, they could still see each other clearly, but the light was at its moment of transition, and, as soon as they went inside, the night outside the windows appeared perfectly dark. In the cottage downstairs there was only one room, with a kitchen at one end and a sitting room at the other, a flagged floor and a wood fire smoldering in a wide stone hearth, one wall stripped back to the naked stone. Hilda put logs on the fire and switched on a couple of lamps.
The room was uncluttered, considering how small it was, but everything in it was striking and eccentric: the faded rugs, the pictures on the walls, a wool blanket woven in bright colors flung over the back of the sofa, collections of stones and twisted weathered deadwood from the moors. The effect seemed spontaneous, but Ally knew that it must have taken a huge effort to get it to this state, removing all the layers of paint and wallpaper and carpeting and coziness. There were photographs of Hilda’s three grown children, two daughters and a son. Hilda said that she had divorced her husband twenty years ago and had mostly brought up the children by herself. He was an Englishman. The only good thing he’d ever done for her was introduce her to this part of the country. She’d lived in Leeds for years, had moved out to the cottage when her younger daughter left home. Then she’d saved and bought herself a whole year off work, to get on with her novel. When she abandoned the novel, and the money ran out, she’d decided to get a local job, part time.
“I can manage,” she said. “Cut the consumer crap. We don’t need half as much as they want to persuade us to buy. How long I’ll stay at the health center I don’t know. The staff aren’t friendly.”
Ally couldn’t imagine Hilda fitting in around here. People would think she was too full of herself: her neat frame seemed packed up tight with personality and experience. Her self-sufficiency made Ally feel unformed. She hung on to the mean little nugget of knowledge: that the writers on the course had said Hilda was too intense, had no sense of humor. There was no sign of a television anywhere in the cottage, only shelves of books.
“Didn’t you ever want to go home to [REDACTED]?”
“England’s home. I’ve lived here longer now than I lived there. Anyway, two of my children live in [REDACTED], and one’s in Dundee. I couldn’t live thousands of miles away from them.”
Hilda told Ally to wrap herself in the blanket in front of the fire: she explained that it was a button blanket, made by a Tlingit artist. Then she brought her tea and a slab of apple cake she’d made herself, without eggs or dairy.
“I want to ask you how you are,” she said, sitting on a cushion on the hearthrug. “Real question, not the polite version. You can tell me it’s none of my business. We hardly know each other.”
“I’m O.K.”
“You honored me with your confidence the other day.”
“I’m really O.K. Why don’t you tell me about your novel instead? You said you had been waiting all your life to write it.”
She thought that Hilda flinched. “Outside the shop? Did I say that?”
“Something like that.”
Hilda considered carefully. “You’re angry because I talked about it so seriously, as if my novel were a disaster in the real world. But, of course, it can’t be weighed in that world. Against the life of one of my children, say, it isn’t a feather. Or against the life of anyone’s child.”
“It mattered to you, though.”
Ally wasn’t interested in the novel itself. She wanted to dig down to the raw shame of this failure in Hilda, this thing inside her, poisoning everything, cut off and spoiled and shrivelled up.
Hilda told her the story of the Guitar Player. In the late sixties, when Hilda was fifteen, her mother had had an affair with a singer-songwriter. It had happened in a big house on a lake in Saskatchewan, where Hilda’s mother was employed as a live-in cook and cleaner. The house had belonged to a [REDACTED] music producer, who brought his friends out to party in the summer. Even while the affair was happening, Hilda’s mother had gone on cleaning and washing up and cooking. She said she’d rather be busy than hang around doing nothing. She refused to take any money beyond her wages. She really was the kind of woman that folksingers sang about in those days, or she made herself into that kind of woman: good at growing things and cooking and healing and comforting. That summer, Hilda’s mother had gone around barefoot and worn long dresses, with her hair down to her waist, and the guests had treated her as if she were a kind of child of nature, because she lived out by the lake year round. All of them had been a bit in love with her, especially after the Guitar Player had chosen her. She hadn’t tried to explain to these guests the complications of her real life on the lake. 
At the end of the summer, the Guitar Player had moved on, and Hilda’s mother had never seen him again, but he’d had a success with a song that she always believed was about her: “She’s the One,” a hymn to beauty that could also be interpreted as a message of farewell or apology. Hilda’s mother had bought the album and learned all the words. And, after she married Hilda’s stepfather, whenever they had rows she would retreat to her den and play it over and over, singing along. By that time she’d cut her hair and was working as a receptionist at one of the lake hotels. But Hilda knew that the song wasn’t really about her mother, although she had never told her so. She knew this because those words—“She’s the one”—were what the Guitar Player had said to Hilda when he came looking for her for the first time. She’d slept in the attic of the big house: at night, she used to stand on a chair, craning her head out of the skylight to watch the grownups drinking and partying in the garden below or undressing to go skinny-dipping in the lake. When the Guitar Player had come into Hilda’s room and lifted the sheet on her bed, he’d said not “You’re the one” but “She’s the one,” as if he were describing her to somebody else, some objective judge watching.
She had been afraid, of course, but not sorry, not at the time. He was as moody and skinny as a boy, but he had a power that drew all the yearning in the place toward him, including hers. He’d hardly spoken to her before that, but he must have noticed her watching him. His real presence in her room had seemed a kind of miracle, refracted and thickened through everyone’s adulation of him, through his pictures in magazines and on album covers. He’d been pretty high that night, exalted and weird; there were a lot of drugs around that summer. He’d said all kinds of strange things—Hilda was surprised that he could remember any of it afterward, but quite a lot of it had found its way into the song.
Hilda told her the real name of the singer-songwriter and Ally didn’t recognize it. A crumb of apple cake had stuck to Hilda’s cheek as she talked. She was at that tipping point in middle age. Mostly she was animated, buoyant, and flexible, her skin was good, and in spite of her white hair she seemed to belong to the world of choice and strength. Then, in some trick of the light, or because she sagged her chin into her wrinkling neck, or her too short trousers rode up above her ankle socks as she was sitting cross-legged, Ally saw for a moment the old woman she would become, vulnerable and stubborn, cut adrift. Ally knew about the sixties—hippies and psychedelia and free love—but they seemed actually less real to her than Victorian times. If Hilda had said that she’d seen Catherine Earnshaw’s ghost tapping at the window, it would have had more of a thrill of possibility.
“It was a kind of rape. It was child abuse. But that wasn’t how I saw it at the time. Later, in the seventies, I got very angry about it.”
“What d’you think about it now?”
“When I was trying to write the novel, I made such an effort to remember it exactly. I played all the old music. Of course, it can’t mean anything to you. How could I convey the power of those people? That was it, that was my failure—I couldn’t convey it. But it was real. It happened. It was almost a physical thing—you couldn’t separate out the music and the giftedness and the youth. There was like a hum of sex in the air all the time.”
Ally made an effort to imagine Hilda as a fifteen-year-old, but even the room they were in made this difficult. Its uncompromising style conveyed the whole long adult effort of putting a life together. Hilda said that, in her twenties, the story of what had happened had blocked her; for years she hadn’t been able to get past the cheat or the promise of it. She hadn’t told anyone about it, certainly not her mother, not even her husband. She’d saved it up. She’d told herself that one day she would put it in a book, not to make a scandal—as if anyone would care!—but just to be finally free of it. And once she’d begun to think of it as a story it had stopped troubling her; the idea of writing it had even come to be a comfort to her in bad times, a resource stored inside her, opening possibilities in the future.
“But it was a dud,” she said. “It was a wrong idea. I couldn’t do it. What I wanted to say died on me. It died inside.” 

Hilda gave Ally a key to the cottage.
“You can come here any time, if you need space. Make yourself a fire if I’m not here. Grab what you like to eat. Tilly will love to see you—she hates to be locked up in the house alone.”
Ally took the key, but couldn’t imagine that she’d ever need it. Then one afternoon when things were bad at home—trouble was blowing up around James’s refusing to go to school—she drove to the cottage and let herself in. She told her mother that she was walking Hilda’s dog, as a favor. She did take Tilly out, and then when they got back she made a fire and wrapped herself in the blanket and picked out one of the books from Hilda’s shelves, losing herself in it so completely and deeply that when Hilda came back from work, pushing open the door, Ally looked up startled and didn’t know for a moment where she was. After that, she started calling in at the cottage once or twice a week; sometimes Hilda was home and sometimes Ally was alone there. When Hilda went to Dundee for the weekend, to stay with her daughter who had cats, Ally slept at the cottage overnight, keeping Tilly company.
One evening, when she and Hilda were sharing a bottle of red wine, she explained what Ryan had done to kill himself, cutting his wrists with razor blades and bleeding to death in the bath. She’d never had to tell anyone this before: either they knew already or they didn’t like to ask, but Hilda had come straight out with it. They were sitting staring at each other from opposite ends of the sofa, with their legs tucked under them; the dog in her basket was panting with pleasure in the warmth of the fire.
“Mum would have found him,” Ally said. “Usually she gets home twenty minutes before my dad, except that day on an impulse she went the roundabout way to buy vegetables at the farm shop. I was away in Manchester. My other brother had football after school. It wouldn’t have made any difference to what happened—there was no chance of stopping him or anything. He had died already, hours before. But it meant that Mum didn’t have to find him. Dad found him instead. Dad said that that was the only saving grace in the whole thing, her buying those vegetables.”
The wine made little waves in her glass, in time with the pounding of her heart. Hilda reached over to pull the blanket up around Ally’s shoulders.
“Did you have any idea that he was so depressed?”
“Now, when we go over the music he was playing, and what he put on Facebook, everything suggests it. At the time, we just thought he was going through a phase. In fact he was just going through a phase. Only, stupid moron, he didn’t leave himself any chance to come out of it.”
“It’s a terrible thing for his girlfriend,” Hilda sighed. “It really fucks her up.”
Ally couldn’t bear the idea that Hilda would imagine Yvonne as something she wasn’t, some kind of tragic heroine. “They were always splitting up and getting back together again, working themselves up into a lather of feeling, one way or another. It didn’t mean anything.”
“But that’s what you think love’s all about when you’re a kid.”
“That kind of love makes me sick. It’s such a fake.”
When Hilda came back from Dundee, she brought Ally a stone she’d picked up on a beach there, oval and flat and black, striped with pinkish crystal, “pounded by the North Sea,” she said. In Hilda’s house, it was a beautiful thing, but it only looked odd among the ornaments on her bedroom shelf at home, as if a piece of outdoors had got indoors by mistake.
One morning when Ally was at the writing center, double-checking the details of next year’s program of courses before they sent it off to press, Yvonne turned up, hovering outside the office door. Ally recognized her through the glass before she saw Ally inside: it was a fine day, brilliantly cold, so that blue sky was patched in the frame of the door behind Yvonne’s yellow hair and short white bomber jacket. Her shoulders were hunched with the cold, her skinny midriff bare, hardly bulging over the top of tight jeans. She put her face up close to the glass, peering in. Ally felt like a fish in a bowl, helpless to escape being seen.
“I have to talk to you,” Yvonne said once she’d got the door open, looking around suspiciously and showing no sign of wanting to cross the threshold of the office.
No “please” or “if you’re not busy.”
Ally took down her coat and suggested they walk along the river. She left a note on the desk for Kit. It was the second day of a short-story course, and all the students were at loose outdoors with notebooks and pens. They must have been given some writing exercise. Everywhere you looked, one of them seemed to be staring at nothing, drinking it in, transfixed: a dead stalk of dock weed or the blank corner of a stone wall or an icicle dribbled from the lip of a gutter. Dedicatedly they scribbled in their notebooks, squinting at the nothing from all angles.
“Shit a brick,” Yvonne muttered, keeping her eyes on the ground. “What are they supposed to be doing?”
Ally felt bound to apologize for the center. She said that they were practicing observational skills.
“Observing my arse,” Yvonne said.
Her thin little face, which had used to look creamy, was peaky, blue around the lips. Ally had always guessed that underneath Yvonne’s neat sweetness—plucked straight brows, small nose, pink ears—something ferrety was waiting to appear. Yvonne walked rolling on her heels, with her arms wrapped across her chest, hands tucked up into her jacket sleeves for warmth. The path dropped to the river, and she looked around her, not enthusiastically, as if she didn’t often find herself in the country. Bare alders and ash and blackthorn made a twiggy haze against the sun, which was already close to dropping behind the steep side of the river valley; the cold brown water coiled thickly in its bed. Ally felt better once they were past the last of the writers.
“Everybody hates me,” Yvonne said. “I suppose that’s what he wanted.”
“We’ve been over all this,” Ally said. “Nobody hates you.”
Yvonne fished for something in her tight jeans pocket, thrust it out closed in her fist. “I wanted to give you this back.”
Ally put her hands behind her. “I don’t want it. What is it?”
“A stupid ring Ryan gave me.”
“I don’t want it.”
In a spasm of temper Yvonne swung around and opened her hand, flinging away into the river something tiny that gave out one glint of light before it was swallowed without a splash, the water healing instantly behind it. The moment she’d done it she shrieked, pressing her hands across her mouth, and said that she hadn’t meant to let it go, it was an accident.
“Ally, help me get it back!”
“Don’t be silly. The water’s too deep. You can’t see to the bottom—you couldn’t find it in a million years. It doesn’t matter.”
Yvonne went on shrieking and pleading. Crouching on the path, she started untying her trainers, dragging and clawing at the laces, as if she were going to wade in. On an impulse, because the whole scene disgusted her, Ally found herself calmly stepping into the river with her trainers still on, wading across the large flat submerged stones at its edge. At first she hardly felt the cold, only the pull of the moving water, as if something were clamped around her ankles. Then she stepped down into a deeper channel, among the smaller toffee-colored pebbles of the riverbed; the water here was halfway up to her calves, then up to her knees, soaking her trousers, wrapping them against her legs, snatching her breath away with the shock of the cold. The force of the current where the river ran faster almost knocked her off balance, though it looked lazy on the surface. She steadied herself by hanging on to a slippery boulder sticking up midstream and wondered if she should go any farther. Her jaw was clenched. It was difficult to remember how to move her feet in the trainers that began to feel numbingly huge and heavy.
She didn’t care about the ring: she had stepped into the water only to make a point against the hysterical performance on the riverbank, to show it up in some way that was deliberate and disdainful. When she turned to look back at Yvonne, she was surprised at how far she had come: Yvonne on the path seemed distant, hugging her elbows, shouting directions that Ally couldn’t hear over the water rushing past. It seemed a different universe out here in the river. The whole scene, the sad story that had brought them together, was framed for her for a moment as if from some far-off future perspective, and her rage against Yvonne washed out of her. Wanting only to be kind, she began hunting for the ring in all seriousness, peering at the riverbed, fishing for gleams in the water, her hands aching from the cold as if the flesh were being dragged off her bones. She realized that Yvonne was shouting from the bank for her to come back, please come back. It didn’t matter, Yvonne shouted. It was only a ring.
At that moment, Ally saw it, caught just underwater in a crevice in a jagged chunk of shale, its gold picked out where a beam of the late light slanted at an angle from the water’s surface. She reached out her hand to take it.  

