JULIA AND BYRON
By Craig Raine


When [REDACTED] was twenty-nine, her hair was already bar-coded. Now, at sixty-two, it was a solid helmet of bright pewter, level with her lean, brown jawbone. As she looked at her wedding ring, she could observe the bold play of tendons on the back of her tanned thin hands. The student doctor was telling her that she had cancer. Of the bone marrow.
He had found her reading her file—left on the desk by the consultant—and assumed that she already knew the diagnosis. Perhaps he thought her doctorate in zoology was a doctorate in medicine. He wanted to be nice. “Myeloma. Broad term, actually. In your case,” he gestured at the crisp yellow folder on which her hands were resting, “it’s serious—well, it’s always serious—but not hopeless.”
His fingernails were clean and cut short. She liked that.
And he wasn’t entirely wrong about her medical knowledge. After the initial tests, she’d done some reading and asked various doctor friends a few questions. She’d looked on the Web. So she had a shrewd and accurate idea of her chances—two to five years, or, possibly, if her condition was stabilized, a longer, indeterminate period. She might reach seventy, with luck. Longer if she was luckier.
When the consultant, Aaronovitch, returned and proposed to take her into his confidence, she pretended complete ignorance—to protect the student doctor and to hear the fullest possible account of her illness. Aaronovitch’s diagnosis differed from the student doctor’s in no significant particular.
“I should tell you, Mr. Aaronovitch,” [REDACTED] said, “what you couldn’t possibly know unless you’ve got my G.P.’s notes from way back—that my blood count has always been very low. I mean, before all this. When I was well. So I’d say that I may be less ill than I look. On paper. So to speak.”
Her acute hearing picked up the sound of his hairy hand palpating his chin. The sound of static. To show [REDACTED] that he was thinking. Considering. Weighing. Being judicious. Finally, he folded his arms across his waistcoat, leaned back in his chair, inclined his head a little, looked directly into [REDACTED]’s eyes—and proposed the experimental treatment that he had been contemplating for six months before the onset of her symptoms had brought her to his hospital.
“In that case,” he said, “blood to make up the count, and chemo. One pill a month. That’s all. New thing. Massively powerful, of course. But definitely worth a try. Might just do the trick.” He clicked his Montblanc Rollerball twice.
They looked each other in the eye.
“They sent for some doctors / In sneezles / And wheezles,” [REDACTED] said gravely. “To tell them what ought / To be done.”
Mr. Aaronovitch lifted a quizzical eyebrow.
“All sorts and conditions / Of famous physicians / Came hurrying round / At a run,” [REDACTED] answered, without smiling. “You’re the expert, that’s all.”
The medication had a beautiful name. Mandragorax. Made by a pharmaceutical company that knew its Shakespeare.
In six months it had completely stripped the nerves of her hands. She could feel nothing.
After the failure of Mandragorax to do anything except damage [REDACTED], Mr. Aaronovitch adopted more conventional treatment—a gradualist chemotherapy, administered by IV and closely monitored in the hospital over half a day and a night. [REDACTED] endured nausea and massive temperature fluctuations—her green hospital shift black with sweat and vacuum-packed against her scalded body. But no hair loss.
She began to stabilize. She played tennis. She swam.
Here she is, her skin the reddish-brown of bresaola, trapping tennis balls between racquet and foot, crooking her knee, patting the plush. Here is the sweat shadow left by her hand on the red leather racquet handle. So tanned that her eyelids are pale if—pain—she closes her eyes. Here she is, bald—lifting the squeaky flap of her white rubber bathing hat to tuck out of sight strands of her livid hair. Folds, a cape of chlorinated water, gather at her neck as she strokes down the pool in little pulses, touches with two hands together, and turns in an eddy. She is a burglar in her black goggles and striped bathing costume. In the changing room, she hooks a finger under the rubber helmet and shakes her hair free. Bright gray, damp at the tips.
Mr. Aaronovitch was surprised by her comparative recovery, surprised that her immune system was still operational and effective, given its virtual extinction a few months before. He persuaded [REDACTED] to take part in another experiment. His argument was calculated to appeal to her scientific instinct. Though unlikely to succeed in the short term, the new treatment might be valuable in the long term. [REDACTED]’s proven powers of recuperation suggested to Aaronovitch that this new course of chemo, though carrying a significant risk, was unlikely to be fatal. Its development, the necessary crucial refinements, however, depended on the use of a human guinea pig.
[REDACTED] thought of her beloved lab rats—the healthy and sleek, the medicated and ungainly, carrying their single tumors like Quasimodo, their double tumors like Bactrians. And she signed the contract with Mr. Aaronovitch’s Montblanc Rollerball. Click-click. The contract promised that antibiotics would not be withheld.
In the event, they were withheld. “If you could just hang in there a little bit longer, [REDACTED].” Mr. Aaronovitch had stopped calling her Dr. Duddington when she had stopped being his patient and become, as it were, a colleague, on the signing of the contract.
Here she is in her hospital gown—too tired to tie the telltails behind her. Her buttocks have vanished. You can see her coccyx. There is hair all over her body. She can hardly make her jaws move to eat. Her throat is so ulcerated that swallowing is impossible. An amber mosaic. Her tongue is black-indigo. She cannot keep food down.
Talking is difficult. So many movements required that it takes her ten minutes, with rests between every whispered word, to say the first line of “They all made a note / Of the state of her throat.” It is so painful for [REDACTED] that Byron, her husband, tries to complete the second line as soon as he recognizes the quotation. But he fails at the pronoun—his? her?—and is so upset he has to leave the room.
When Mr. Aaronovitch agreed at last to the suspension of treatment and the resumption of antibiotics, she was unable to take them orally. Byron had to push the suppositories up her rectum, taking gobs and shreds of flesh with them.
She bled from her vagina and rectum and, as she declined, began to soil herself. At the end, she was very weak and found it hard to walk. Byron took her upstairs, holding her thin hands. Her face was very pale, so pale she looked as if she were wearing lipstick.
He said, “You’re very weak. You’re finding it hard to walk.”
She smiled and water came out of her mouth and she died in his arms.
After the undertaker had left, Byron kissed her and realized how dead she was. She had gone. She wasn’t there. But he couldn’t put the lid on the coffin. After three days, the molded symmetrical smile began to pull to one side. It began to look more like a smirk. He wondered if he should turn off the central heating all over the house, not just in the spare room.
 
Byron was unable to sleep, so he sat in [REDACTED]’s study, in the kneeling chair, working his way through the diaries she had kept in a beige filing cabinet. They recorded his bad behavior during their twenty-year marriage. Where were the tender moments? Unrecorded. He read on, compelled, remorseful, weeping, nodding off now and then, only to be woken by his own sobs. “B impossible. Drunk at Encaenia garden party. Told principal everyone bisexl. Sodomized at Central School S & D: enjoyed it. Explained that proximity of prostate to rectum wall accounts for male pleasure. Only drawback loose stools next morning. But that wd apply to wm also. In car I sd: B, why do you do this? What? What do I do? Make things up. You’re like a kid. Anything to be center of attentn. Fuck off. Rather be fucked up arse by poofter than service you.”
All his jealousies, all his tantrums, all his sulks were here in the diaries, written up like experiments, in [REDACTED]’s methodical notation. And only Byron knew that these episodes were oblique expressions of his love for her. They had no children. She had been forty when they married and was committed to her career. Sometimes she’d joked that she had a daughter called Trilobites. So children had been out of the question—which had suited him fine—but he’d got into the habit of creating a scene whenever he felt her concentration falter, flicker, withdraw. Byron had wanted her attention undivided.
He had succeeded. “Dread B’s rants. Think about them all time. Back of my mind all time. Hates me. Why?” He found no expressions of love.
“I stripped the nerves of her heart,” he would say in the street to any of their mutual friends. “I was the chemo before the chemo. So domineering, so rude, so impossible. Christ, you should read her diaries. You find out. You think, She knows I care. But you find out she doesn’t. She doesn’t know. I tortured her.”
And he would stand there crying, even after the friend had escaped. He didn’t burst into tears. He was already in tears as soon as he saw anyone who had known her. “I never learn. I never fucking learn, do I? Even the funeral. Even that. I made all the guests go in the Land Rover. And I made a fucking scene. I was embarrassing.”
He had gone on all of [REDACTED]’s field trips with her in the Land Rover. At the graveside, there was a freak summer hailstorm. Byron’s black tie was pasted to his shirt. His face was so wet you couldn’t tell how hard he was crying. He took out a copy (with worn corners) of “Now We Are Six” and tried to read “Us Two.” The first stanza was a fight for control, looking away from the wet page, lips parted and dripping. The hailstones thrashed and popped. Where the clay began, the earth looked like tiger stone. Then everything seemed to speed up, until the final stanza—which took a lifetime because Byron’s mouth became suddenly difficult and stiff.
So wherever I am, there’s always Pooh,
There’s always Pooh and Me.
“What would I do,” I said to Pooh,
“If it wasn’t for you,” and Pooh said:
“True,
It isn’t much fun for One, but Two
Can stick togeth . . .
The slewed mouth of a stroke victim.
Byron flung himself on the wet coffin, which slipped out of his embrace and dropped a wreath of chrysanthemums. He fell. One knee was muddied, and somehow his nose began to bleed.
For two years he was a grief Automat, crying unstoppably at the mention of her name. Then he remarried—a younger woman—and was a difficult husband. 

