LOSTRONAUT
By Jonathan Lethem

November 4th
Dearest Chase,
I am trying to “feel” November, yours and mine. I’ll make an imaginary diorama, like something from grade school, an attempt to win a secret science fair of the heart: Janice and Chase’s November. A mind’s-eye miniature I can peer into. (I won’t mention this project to the Captain, or to the Russians, or to anyone else. We all know too much about one another’s little projects up here.) Is it cold yet? Is [REDACTED] beautiful? Have they put up the Christmas tree, or is it too soon? (I know you loathe Rockefeller Center.) Do you ever go to the Chinese garden at the Met, with the tiny gurgling waterfall, where we once went and laid our heads together on a stone and fell asleep? (I don’t know if I want to know whether you go there without me or not, so don’t answer that question.) Do I sound idiotic? Forgive me, I’m going a little bonkers up here. Since the antifreeze leak—explosion, really—things have not been right. I’m sure Mission Control will have tried to keep any panic to a minimum—that’s in their training, and, even more, it’s in their nature. (Hello, Ted! And how are you, Arun? Are you sipping Ceylon as you read this?) Even among us six, we’ve quit discussing the incident—there’s always the new day’s tasks to think of. But in truth we nearly lost both the Den and the Greenhouse. And, without the Greenhouse, no food. And no air. No us. Northern Lights just an elaborate mausoleum, or perhaps a floating lab for an experiment in zero-gravity mummification.
Mstislav, our most dedicated gardener now that Sledge rarely emerges from the Attic, has been tinkering with the carbon-dioxide balance, a dangerous but crucial sport. At six or seven hundred parts per million, the air in here is dreadful but sustains life. Regular jiggering of organic functions is needed to keep the ratio from ballooning to something deadly. To make a long story short, after an alarmingly high reading Mstislav discovered a mound of rotting mangrove fronds under a seemingly healthy hillock of wheatgrass—a camouflaged nightmare of poison-leaching compost. Endgame for us could be that simple, that foolish. Everyone, even the Captain and Sledge, was required to take up pitchforks in an ad-hoc campaign to clear the fermenting stew into garbage stockings, which then had to be banished from our airspace, pronto. Now, for months Keldysh has been stuffing waste into one of the three emergency modules, a reasonably nifty solution, with the notion that we’ll eventually test our ability to launch the module and remote-control-dump its contents at the edge of the minefield that makes up our prison. Maybe our garbage, drifting slowly into [REDACTED]’s gravity, could even take out some of the low-orbit mines the Chinese launched to keep us trapped here. A fantasy, perhaps. We’d have to eliminate hundreds for Mission Control even to begin to discuss reaching us with a shuttle. But we dream—why not?
Well, this surplus of mulch-bulging stockings forced our hand, before Keldysh had any chance to chart a launch plan. Zamyatin was enraged at Keldysh for attempting the early launch, but we’d all encouraged him. And, in truth, we were all exhausted from twelve hours of what Mstislav laughingly called “serf toil,” one of the rare jokes among the Russians that even Sledge and I could get. Also the last laugh we’d have for a while. Keldysh arced the module. It rebounded off solar panel V, snapped off an antenna, and clanged disastrously against the Den’s exterior tile. Glued to the video feed like teen-agers at a horror film, we saw the module tumble unbraked through, yes, the Chinese mines. Then flare and vanish. (Honestly, I do think Keldysh by then had his head in his hands, and could have reversed the module’s course if he hadn’t been so despondent at the earlier impacts.) Farewell to excess compost, to unrecyclable plastic waste, to irredeemably shameful diapers, and to the module itself. The flume of mute fire another reminder, if we needed it, to recalibrate orbital decay daily. Like flossing. (I joke to keep your attention during the dry technical passages, my darling distractible Chase.) I don’t think anyone thought to inspect the Den’s interior for damage until we smelled the antifreeze, a skunk’s reek speeding through Northern Lights’ tiny atmosphere.
It was Mstislav who had the foresight to seal the Den remotely, then insist that we don oxygen masks and investigate. Forget for now any damage to the exterior, which we were, of course, predisposed to concern ourselves with. (The rocket ship’s hull, every spaceman’s concern!) By the time we reached the Den we’d lost Sledge somewhere, but the remaining five of us penetrated the area wearing masks, and discovered the wrecked antifreeze line spewing turquoise blobs, which floated and shattered to paint every surface of the Den’s interior. Mstislav and Zamyatin clamped the line. Then, fresh off the serf toil in the Greenhouse, we space janitors set to scrubbing and sponging and wringing the blue goo into containers, a task much like the pursuit of Dr. Seuss’s Oobleck. (I still want to have children with you, Chase.) By the finish our uniforms were coated. Mstislav, champion of this episode, reasonably pointed out that any droplet of the pollutant we exported from the Den was destined for circulation and, ultimately, our mucous membranes. Our bloodstreams. So we stripped and trashed the clothes. Picture us, five floating nudists in oxygen masks, ragged with fatigue and degrees of shock, squeezing the last beads of antifreeze from our hair. (Don’t be jealous. They’ve seen me naked before. Anyway, on our present diet I’m shrunken to a ten-year-old’s gaunt outline, not exactly turning heads. My periods have stopped, too. And yes, again, I still want to have children with you, Chase.) At last, and ignoring various bruises and scrapes that first-aid protocols would have had us tend immediately, we all slunk away to our various hidey-holes to strap ourselves to a wall for some desperately needed sleep. Starved as we were, I don’t think anyone emerged for ten hours or more.
I can’t imagine that Mission Control will release too much of this report, except perhaps exclusively to you, Chase. Still, when our media-digest packet finally turns up (there’s so much demand for our scrawny bandwidth, so many technical transmissions in line ahead of anything personal, that the packet is usually delayed a week or two), I’m always startled at how many columns the papers devote to us. How fascinating can we truly be? They’ll forget us soon. We’ve practically forgotten ourselves. That’s why I rely on you, Chase, to believe in me. As I drift, you anchor me in reality. On [REDACTED]. In [REDACTED], where you sit reading this, perhaps in that fake-French coffee shop (is it really called Savoir Faire?) with the amazing almond croissants you pretend to allow yourself only once or twice a month but in truth devour at least twice a week. That’s where I picture you, Chase. With powdered sugar on your fingers as you open Mission Control’s overnight envelope. The sugar on your lips and fingers and possibly on your nose, too—that sweet dust is me, your astronaut, your lostronaut, your Janice.
November 14th
Dearest Chase,
I’ve got some good news and some bad news. Ha ha ha ha ha—imagine, please, my convulsive laughter. (I read this opening line aloud to Zamyatin, who happens to be running on a treadmill in the room as I type this letter to you, and he found it as hilarious as I did. Moments like these are all we have to savor these days; please don’t begrudge them.) The good news, of course, you will have read in the newspaper and perhaps even seen on some cable-news station (except I can’t for one instant imagine you bothering with cable television; last I recall you were searching for your remote and failing to find it, then accusing the housekeeper of hiding it): we survived the space walk to repair the tile damaged in Keldysh’s botched module launch. Better than survived. The space walk was a thrilling success and Northern Lights will carry on, to drift unmoored in orbit for another day, or month, or however long until we are rescued or choose to destroy ourselves in a deliberate collision with the Chinese mines, which I suspect could happen any minute now, especially if I am judging the Captain’s and Keldysh’s moods correctly—but, pardon me, I was telling you the good news! Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Suffice to say no straws were drawn, because no one wanted to see Sledge anywhere near the air lock; our dour Captain asserted the leadership he has lately so much neglected, tapping myself and Keldysh for the walk, and Mstislav and Zamyatin for on-board mission guidance, and inventing some kind of make-work for Sledge that did or did not get done—something back in the Greenhouse, something to do with Mstislav’s doomed reclamation project involving the leaf-cutter bees, those expert pollinators. (We’re all in utter denial about the bees.) I find myself unwilling to bother with the technical stuff, which by now I’m certain makes your eyes glaze over. Such labors as the forty-eight hours of preparation that the mission entailed are wearisome enough to get through, let alone describe for a bored boyfriend. Anyhow, “preparation” ’s a poor word. Nothing had or could have prepared me and Keldysh for the sensations that overcame us upon ejecting from the air lock. Essentially, of falling, like Wile E. Coyote, off a cliff, into a bottomless well of darkness and silent velocity.
We’re soaring atoms, Chase, that’s what orbit consists of, the inhuman hastening of infinitesimal specklike bodies through an awesome indifferent void, yet in our cramped homely craft, its rooms named to evoke childhood comforts, with our blobs of toothpaste drifting between our brushes and the mirror, our farts and halitosis filling the chambers with odor, we’ve defaulted to an illusion of substance. Inside Northern Lights, we’ve managed to kid ourselves that we exist, that we’re curvaceous or lumpy or angular, bristling with hair and snot, taking up a certain amount of room, and that space and time have generously accorded a margin in which we’re invited to operate these sizable greedy bodies of ours, a margin in which to dwell, to hang out and live our pale stinky stories. The space walk destroyed all that. (No wonder Mission Control has tried to keep this from ever being necessary.) Oh, the lie of weightlessness! We feel we’re floating only because we’re forever falling, as in an elevator with no bottom floor to smash into. And so, inside the elevator, the human party continues oblivious, the riders flirt and complain and mix zero-G cocktails, or chase bewildered zero-G leaf-cutter bees. Outside the ship, our consoling elevator’s walls dissolved, Keldysh and I were two specks falling forever, specks streaming down the face of the night. Ourselves plummeting downward to the gassy blue orb, the gassy blue orb also plummeting at the same mad rate away from us.
(Somewhere I hear the voices of Mission Control: Ted muttering to Arun, “Get this woman an editor.”)
Well, after clinging to our telescopic guide-rods in a riot of metaphysical horror for upward of twenty minutes, our eyes locked on each other’s while Zamyatin and Mstislav gently prodded us to explain, please, why we weren’t moving a muscle to make the needed repairs to the tile, Keldysh and I completely mute, we finally managed to bluff ourselves into taking one step into the void, and then another, until like brain-locked automatons we began executing the commands we’d rehearsed. The repair required little beyond the clipping of a hangnail of tile and the application of a sealant (think Krazy Glue) to the gash that the misdirected module had carved into the Den’s upper sill. One crumpled signal dish was judged to be irretrievable; we detached it and let it spin off, down toward the minefield. I think it got through, the reward being immolation upon reaching the atmosphere—a Roman candle, a small blessing of fire sent down in your direction, my Chase-ling. My heroism, such as it was, consisted in persuading poor Keldysh, who, seeing the dish spiral away, reverted to panic and clung to the tile in a bear hug, to free himself from the ship’s exterior and let the guide-rod telescope him home to safety. I had to whisper into Keldysh’s private channel for five endless minutes, the others all stymied, waiting for us to budge, before I got him to go.
Now, love, for the bad news. A few days after the space walk, Mstislav, in his dutiful way (he’s keeping the whole place running!), scheduled checkups for both me and Keldysh, a routine caution we’d neglected for too long. We came up clean for effects from the walk, but Mstislav seemed puzzled by my white-blood-cell profile. We ran a few successive days’ counts, just to be sure we had a meaningful sample, Mstislav trying not to say what he feared he was on the trail of, me gamely offering various bogus notions about female physiology reacting differently to the Greenhouse’s CO2 deprivation, joking that Mstislav had gone too long without a lady patient. Eventually, our efforts devolved to a sitdown for the ever-humbling medical questionnaire, Mstislav talking me through a series of self-exams, a drill we’d practiced on the ground but hoped never to see put to use. None of us much like dwelling on the slow erosion of our bodies in this environment—the bone-density decay, the pale, starved skeletons we’ve substituted for our old selves. I liked even less what Mstislav guided me toward: acknowledgment that I’d been managing an uncanny pain in my right foot’s arch for weeks, at least. Do you remember that I said I was having a problem with cramping? That cramp was a tumor, Chase. Funny, huh? Oh, you should have seen the looks on the faces of the Russians, and Sledge. Even Sledge. I think they realized too late that I was a sort of talisman here, their woman. The whole mother-earth thing, unavoidable. Now a good-luck charm with cancer. That’s not to say, you know, that we don’t all still hate one another.
That was yesterday. I’ll know more soon, but I doubt we’ll be able to much delay a leak to the media, and I wanted to tell you before you learned by other means. (Oh, this is going to be a mess, this is going to be hell.) Behold the onset of my flinty tone. Along with so much else, a soft-tissue sarcoma can apparently drain the exultation from one’s prose.
Remember (please remember) the Chinese garden at the Met, that unlikely bit of outdoors indoors? It shouldn’t feel so expansive, yet somehow it does. My favorite place in [REDACTED], I think. Remember that we went there together, Chase? Did I already ask this? One of our first days in [REDACTED], we were so tired and drunk on sex and the sense of recognition of those early days of our love, and we meandered into the Met, not with any plan, and the suffocating heaviness of those galleries of European oil paintings made us drowsy and we escaped (I never remember the path exactly, always have to rediscover it) to the Chinese garden court, and were nearly alone there, and anyway the gurgling of the water and the rustling of the grasses, the bamboo, seemed to cover any human sound, and we lay down there on that stone which had been chiselled out and shipped from its ancient source and no guard troubled us and soon with our heads tipped together on that dark slate we fell coolly asleep, dozed for who knows how long? Do you remember, Chase? I remember, too, when we woke, and turned to look into the pool beside our heads, and you thought you saw a fish, a little black darting goldfish-type fish, but it was only the reflection of my glasses, a black shimmering reflected shape that had separated, for an instant, from the reflection of my head and from the rest of my glasses, and seemed a separate darting thing, a fish, or a tadpole? Please remember, Chase, remember please remember, I adore you, my terrestrial saint, my angel wandering avenues, I’m your cancerous angel adrift,
Janice
December 18th
My darling Chase, 

Now comes the winter of my discombobulation. Of course, we have no winter here, it’s always cold out and filthy hot sweaty moist oxygenless inside but, hey, I notice the pages flying off the calendar. [REDACTED]’s loading his sleigh! Hope he gets through the minefield O.K.! We’ve reverted to believing in [REDACTED], Chase. St. Nick is one of the cultural touchstones up here, something Sledge and I and the Russians can all get behind, whereas E. Bunny and T. Fairy are too American, apparently, and hence are terra incognita. As is, come to think of it, terra! But we believe in mythical things here, like [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. After all, we have invisible enemies—CO2, cancer, gravity. So heck, why not invisible friends?
Each bout of meds is worse than the last. My days (“days”) a dull cycle of recovery until I’m strong enough to suck the poison again. During my latest bouts of helplessness I’ve been installed in the Nursery, which has become a sickroom, with everyone aboard all too adept at tapping one of my veins and inserting an IV, not to mention swabbing my puke from where it’s drifted into my hair and so on. I suppose we’re enjoying a faint resurgent solidarity, at last obeying Mission Control psychiatric guidelines that we gather for meals and meetings every other day. The Captain is a captain again, his melancholic depression no contest for my cancer—yes, I feel like a winner, Chase. I may have bought a lottery ticket out of here, in fact, and once in a while Keldysh and the Captain can’t keep from peering at me with a sympathy that includes a trace of morbid fascination with the strange journey I’ve managed to undertake within our orbiting stasis, and perhaps even envy for my possible destination. (Mstislav is too devoted an attending physician ever to reveal such a sentiment, and Zamyatin, the angry cosmonaut, too much of a bastard—if Zamyatin were ever to commit suicide, he’d make sure we knew that he credited it to ourcowardice, not his.) It’s almost as if I’d broken a pledge we made to one another and to our audience on [REDACTED]: that we’d live here forever, mascots of futility.
Most remarkable of all, though, is the effect on poor Sledge. The dawning signs of this transformation we chalked up to circumstance: with Mstislav now devoting much of his time to my care, the Greenhouse was neglected, worse than usual, I mean, so Sledge began to grope his way out of the Attic back into a share of his old duties, tending the wheatgrass and cabbages and hives as if he’d never abandoned them, and really producing some miraculous results. Sledge is a more instinctive and sympathetic gardener than Mstislav, something we all, perhaps even Sledge, forgot. Without even appearing to try, he’s reversed a degree of the CO2 slide. He’s also a better cook. The two roles are intertwined. He offers me broths of freshly harvested sweet-potato greens and baby bok choy, and though the air we breathe in here is itself a kind of broth, I sip them gratefully.
There’s more. You’ll say he’s got some kind of vampiric jones for suffering, but Sledge has become a tender companion in my worst hours, vigilant over my fevers, an entertainer when I can bear entertainment. Whether out of stoicism or hostility, we’d long since quit sharing personal stories up here, but during quiet hours, when all the others are sleeping and the toxins inflaming my veins won’t let me rest, Sledge has been disburdening to me tales of collegiate mayhem in the Pacific Northwest, at Evergreen College. How a pale secret fag (did I just let that slip?) made his way first amid those blustery, sunburned hippie biology majors, then here to patriotic doom with me and the Russians, God only knows. If half the amount of crystal meth and threesomes he claims in his youthful annals are factual, sleepy old Sledge truly belonged in the Warhol Factory. Never underestimate anybody, Chase (I think you often do).
I know, my foolish darling, how you like to root for improbable heroes on unlikely quests, so I’ll make you party to a secret. Sledge has been sneaking leaf-cutter bees out of the Greenhouse, one at a time, in a mason jar. It’s his wild theory that their stings immunize against cancer, and so once or twice a day, on top of my official poisons, I roll up a pant leg and allow Sledge to bully a bee into injecting its venom into my shin. He then lines up the dead bees on the Nursery’s doorjamb, facing outward, their dry little feet affixed with rubber cement so they won’t drift. Fifteen or twenty now, keeping vigil while I nod. If any of the Russians have noticed, they’ve said nothing.
I’m sparing you, sparing us both, my reminiscences, my pining evocations; refusing, this time, to rhapsodize on your appetite for pastry, the slightly ashy skin of your earlobes, any days spent failing to rouse ourselves beyond your bedroom’s threshold, or other days wandering through museums, gazing in indoor fountains, startled by the sight of our own innocent faces in rippling pools. None of this. If I beckon you to remember me, Chase, I fear you’ll slip to some image of another, for I suspect I’m beginning to dissolve; I can barely remember myself anymore. But I remember you, Chase, I really do. I see you before me, like that mute Greek chorus of bees.
Your lost one,
Janice
January 8th
C.,
Severed-foot disposal in a pocket biosphere is really a daft problem, one I hope you never need face, love. We considered air-lock ejection, a sailor’s funeral, but to send my pedal appendage spinning down to [REDACTED], or, worse, to trigger a mine, seemed florid, flamboyant, a bit of a flambé, and not in the least flame-retardant, even if we wrapped it in a foil boot. (Of course, if we had a thousand feet among us, a millipede’s supply to lop off and defenestrate, maybe we’d kick our way out of this crate!) The whole prospect just felt a little brutal for a body part, even one against which I had such justified grievance. So we opted for a sombre burial in the Greenhouse, under the shade of the tallest of the mangroves, though in truth it meant a slightly watery grave after all, stuff seeping up through the muck to swallow the foot, bubbles of mud detaching and floating among us during our tiny, foot-size ritual observances. Sledge, having scooped up the dead bees from the doorjamb in the Nursery, embedded these in the gunk to form a ring of bee emissaries, the better to passport the foot into whatever afterlife it deserves. Keldysh recited a poem in Russian, Mstislav made a joke about Gogol, then we sealed up this weird stew with cheesecloth mesh, as we do the rest of the topsoil, to keep it from absconding in the zero-G.
Afterward, back to work or to sulking in our hidey-holes. I’m no longer so much an occasion for renewed bonhomie. My ailment is just another ambient backdrop now, another machine falling apart with no parts to replace the scrapped ones, another grim dispatch from the quadrants of the deadly dull but not yet quite deadly enough condition our condition is in. My cancer is a mood. We all of us up here have our moods.
Now a part of me will never touch [REDACTED] again, Chase.
Happy New Year!
Footloose,
J.
March 19th
C.,
Forgive glitchos, I type in the dark. The screen’s backlighting’s shot, too. One of the leaf-cutter bees is crawling on my face, drinking sweat—hard not to interpret it as a mosquito and swat it away, but they’ll sting if incited, and I’ve had my requisite bee stings for the week already. We’ve all taken to negotiating this lightless humid labyrinth in bare feet (or, in my case, foot), mostly in underwear or pajamas—if we had little enough motivation to impress one another with personal grooming before, the last is gone—and when I wedged my foot below Keldysh’s console, to write you this letter, I stirred some growth both vine-tangled and mulchy, and up rose the vivid, unmistakable smell of fresh unfiltered apple cider, the kind with a simple label, from [REDACTED] or [REDACTED].
It’s been a while, Chase, but I won’t apologize now for that. I’ve got more to tell than I’ll manage (or Mission Control could ever sanction releasing). Systems began domino-falling, one failure catalyzing another, in mid-February. At some point, Keldysh persuaded us to create a rotation of diagnostic maintenance shutdowns, isolating each in turn: cli-mate, navigation, communications, orbital tracking, plumbing, and so on. Hardly attractive, but no one came up with a credible Plan B. Everything went swimmingly (some words are treacherous—what I’d give for a swim!) until the last time we switched off the central-core light banks, ten days ago now, and they wouldn’t come back on. They still haven’t. (Picture a Russian flipping a switch repeatedly, frowning in the dark.) We’re rationing the backup generator’s delegated functions, and the obscenely draining emergency lights don’t make the cut, so we’re down to what illumination Sledge’s biospectrum grow lights can shed, as he places them here and there on his unfathomable schedule, a farmer rotating crops throughout the station. (For more on Sledge’s new green-thumb imperatives, stay tuned.) Keldysh warns that this may be our last communications packet; he scheduled us each a one-hour session on the sole functioning keyboard—no luxury of writer’s block today! While morale is low, we have a kind of camaraderie at last. I suppose a similar peace may be gained by prisoners sharing death row. This is no time for settling scores. However, I want it on record, right here and now, that I never, ever stole anything from the fridge—anyone else’s leftovers or the Captain’s birthday cake. 
Though black humor is the only functioning humor here, I didn’t quite have the nerve to ask if I could take Zamyatin’s keyboard hour. I suspect it’ll go unused, a symbolic silent communication, an aria of cosmic null-music to foreshadow the chorale the rest of us will soon chime in with. Zamyatin commandeered a landing module and kamikazied himself out of the air lock yester-day. No one was certain what (more) was wrong when Klaxons sounded, but Keldysh inventoried the missing lander, and on doing a head count and finding Z. absent we rushed to the Library’s south window, which gives a panorama of [REDACTED] through a coy lace veil of mines, a view we usually avoid. Just in time to see him flare and burn; as expected, he’d sparked one of the Chinese mines, making a tiny missing tooth in the dynamite smile that pins us on the far side of home. We cheered wildly. It isn’t as though Zamyatin’s bid could be whitewashed as anything other than suicide—the modules aren’t armored for reëntry, so he’d have been baked [REDACTED] on meeting [REDACTED]’s atmosphere even if he had negotiated the mine layer. But that would have been a purely symbolic triumph, whereas this we could call taking one for the team.
And then there were five. Our remaining lives are in Sledge’s hands. What little remains of them. I suppose our remains will be in his hands, too, in the sense that the whole of Northern Lights is being given over to the gardens, now expanded from the Greenhouse to wherever Sledge can get something green to cling or take root and get busy swapping our exhaled breath for something worth inhaling. So when this last brave stand collapses, and we asphyxiate in one collective heap, there’ll be no one left to give us interstellar funerals—instead, we’ll rot in the dark mossy grotto we’ve left behind. At least we no longer fear starvation, as Sledge is always ladling up some fruity or rooty stew—there’s plenty of spare biomass to consume. The ironies are rich. Trapped in the infinite cold of space, we bake like Russian mafiosi in a steam room. Technology expelled us from [REDACTED]’s garden and then, having shot its wad, gardening is left to take over. Similarly, runaway growth is eating me from within, yet Sledge encourages a runaway growth that may prolong my life, allowing me to die longer. The station has a kind of cancer—we smell it in the corridors everywhere, and trip over new growth every time we touch our blind appendages to the walls. As a girl, Chase, I always did get tubers and tumors confused.
Ordinarily, I’m exempted from my turn helping Sledge shift his banks of grow lights from one position to the next, but one day recently I was feeling vital (and bored shitless) enough to give it a go. In zero-G, the task doesn’t involve any lifting, obviously, and even a one-footed lady can aid in nudging the fixtures around awkward corners. Sometimes, in all this dark, it’s pleasant to cling to those few yellowish lights, too. This day, Sledge confessed to me the basis of his mastery of indoor agriculture: he once single-handedly ran the most fecund and profitable indoor marijuana farm on the whole island of [REDACTED]. The operation was tucked inside a four-room apartment on [REDACTED], unsuspected not only by the authorities (kept off the scent by elaborately rerouted utility accounts, the huge electrical bills thrown to other addresses like a ventriloquist’s voice into a dummy’s body) but even by the closest neighbors, who regarded Sledge as an innocent and forgettable fellow-tenant in the large and anonymous building. Sledge described the operation generously: the rooms teeming to the scrolled plaster ceilings with bud-heavy green stalks, the floor cabled with sprinklers, the walls lined with foil reflectors to maximize the ripening effects of the solar-spectrum lamps, the stereo chattering NPR—talk radio to cover the drone of the daytime light banks, and classical music to give the plants a cultural heritage through the cool damp night. In one large closet, he kept what he called “the mother plant,” a grotesquely thickened and practically pulsing rope of marijuana from which he cloned seedlings, a fine-tuned specimen of THC. The result he spliced from her was the highest high-end “one-toke dope,” or so he bragged. He’d made himself and several confederates wealthy from the operation before a paranoid inkling triggered a violent two-day fit in which he completely disassembled the farm and eradicated its traces. It was those skills which have turned our once-shiny space station into a steamy green bacteria-funky lung. I suppose I’ve become Sledge’s mother plant now, the improbable thing he keeps alive in an unnatural cramped space.
I don’t know why I’m wasting so much of my keyboard time paraphrasing Sledge’s tale, except that it was as if I’d visited the place myself. We’re prone to transporting visualizations these days, in our darkened station, not to mention vivid olfactory hallucinations like the apple cider presently rising to my nostrils. The Russians talk about their childhoods incessantly, when they talk at all. Mstislav, drifting in the dark like a dreamer in a sensory-deprivation tank, has spontaneously offered several wistful accounts of cutting his bare foot on a sickle while pursuing a goat, and although we’ve many creatures roaming the station now that the Greenhouse doors have been thrown open, I’m fairly certain there’s no goat on our roster. For me, it isn’t juvenile pastorale to which I revert, but moments between us, Chase, daydream flashes I prefer not to believe I’ve cobbled out of wishful thinking and damp air. (Did you know we can’t even properly gaze at the stars now? Our breath fogs any window we turn to. We’re moisture, Chase, we’re returning to dew.) I know I’ve got a lot of gall questioning your existence when it’s my own that’s so transparently dubious, or dubiously transparent, or something. But you never write, you never call, ha ha ha. So each time I roam the corridors of the Met in my imaginings, seeking that Chinese garden where our cool thrilling birdlike kisses were exchanged, finding that oasis of stone and fern and skylight, bowing my head to see our twinned reflections in the rippling pool there (and what is it that has stirred the water?—some misdirected wishing-person dropping pennies? The silent putter of filtration?), the museum and the Chinese garden and the mirror of water grow clearer and clearer while you begin to pale, I see only myself and a shimmer beside me, you’re nothing now but an urgent elusive talisman, an object glimpsed but unseen, a fish’s lure in the deep, a reason to go on living. And I do that, Chase. At someone’s command, and I prefer to believe it is yours, my friend, I go on living.
Love,
J. 

