THE BOY WHO HAD NEVER SEEN THE SEA
By J. M. G. Le Clézio

He was called Daniel, but he would have liked to be called Sinbad, because he had read about Sinbad’s adventures in the big red leather-bound book he always carried with him, to class and to the dormitory. In fact, I think it was the only book he’d read. He didn’t talk about it, except occasionally, when someone asked him directly. Then his black eyes would shine even brighter, and his knife blade of a face would suddenly come to life. But he was a boy who didn’t speak much in general. He never joined the conversations of others, unless the discussion involved the sea or travels. Most men are men of the land; that’s just the way it is. They are born on the land, and it’s the land and the things of the land that interest them. Even sailors are often men of the land: they like houses and women; they talk about politics and cars. But this boy, Daniel—it was as if he belonged to another race. Terrestrial things bored him—stores, cars, music, movies, and, of course, his schoolwork. He didn’t talk about it; he didn’t even yawn to express his boredom. He’d just sit in one spot—on a bench or on the stairs overlooking the courtyard—and stare into space. He was a mediocre student, who did only the work he needed to get by. When a teacher called his name, he stood and recited the lesson, then he sat down again and that was that. It was as if he were sleeping with his eyes open.
Even when we talked about the sea, the conversation didn’t interest him for long. He’d listen for a moment, ask a question or two, then realize that we were talking not about the sea but about swimming or deep-sea fishing, about beaches or sunbathing. And off he’d go, to his bench or the stairs, and stare into space again. That wasn’t the sea he wanted to hear about. He was interested in a different sea—we didn’t know which one, but a different one.
This, of course, was before he disappeared, before he took off. No one ever imagined that he’d leave one day, and I mean really leave, and never come back. He was very poor. His father had a small farm a few kilometres from town, and Daniel wore the boarding students’ gray uniform overalls, because his family lived too far for him to go home every night. He had three or four older brothers we’d never met.
He didn’t have friends. He didn’t know anyone and no one knew him. Perhaps he preferred it that way, so as not to be tied down. He had a strange face, pointed and sharp like the blade of a knife, and those beautiful, indifferent black eyes.
He gave us no warning, but I’m sure that he had prepared everything by then. He had mapped it all out in his head, had memorized the streets and the routes, the names of the cities he had to pass through. Perhaps he had been dreaming of a lot of things, day after day, and night after night, lying in his dormitory bed, while the rest of us joked around or sneaked cigarettes. He had dreamed of rivers travelling gently toward their estuaries, of the cries of seagulls, of the wind, and of the storms that blow past the masts of sailboats and the beacons of the buoys.
He left in the early days of winter, in the middle of September. When the other boarding students woke up in the big gray dormitory, he had disappeared. We noticed right away, as soon as we opened our eyes, because his bed was still made. The covers had been carefully tucked in, and everything was in order. We said only, “Hey! Daniel is gone!,” without being really surprised, because after all we must have suspected that this might happen. None of us said anything else, because no one wanted him to be found and brought back.
Even the most gossipy of the students in our year said nothing. And, in any case, what could they have said? We didn’t know anything. For a long time, we whispered, in the courtyard or in French class, but only in short phrases that would make no sense to anyone but us:
“Do you think he’s there now?”
“Do you think? Not yet, it’s far, you know . . .”
“Tomorrow?”
“Yeah, maybe . . .”
The most daring said, “Perhaps he’s in [REDACTED] already.”
And the pessimists: “Bah, perhaps he’ll be back today.”
But, if we were silent, among the adults, by contrast, the incident made noise. The teachers and the administrators were regularly summoned to the headmaster’s office, and even to the police station. From time to time, inspectors came and questioned the students, one by one, in an attempt to get us to spill the beans.
Naturally, we told them everything except what we knew: the sea. We spoke of the mountains, of cities, of girls, of treasure, even of vagabond kidnappers and the Foreign Legion. We said these things to cover Daniel’s tracks, and the teachers and the administrators became more and more irritated, and that made them mean.
The noise lasted for several weeks, several months. There were two or three missing-persons notices in the newspapers, with Daniel’s details and a photograph that didn’t really look like him. Then suddenly everything was calm again, because, truth be told, we were all getting a little tired of the affair. Perhaps we had finally understood that he wasn’t ever coming back.
Daniel’s parents resigned themselves to this because they were poor and there was nothing else they could do. The police closed the case—they told us so themselves, adding something that the teachers and the administrators kept repeating, as though it were normal, and which seemed to us, the other students, quite extraordinary. They said that every year tens of thousands of people disappeared without a trace and were never found. The teachers and the administrators repeated this sentence, shrugging their shoulders, as if it were the most banal thing in the world, but we, when we heard it—it made us dream. It began, deep within us, a secret and entrancing dream that hasn’t ended yet.
Surely it was night when Daniel arrived, on board a freight train that had been travelling day and night for a long time. Freight trains run mostly at night, because they are very long and they move slowly from one junction to the next. Daniel was lying on the hard floor of a freight car, wrapped in an old piece of sackcloth. He watched through the shutters of the door, as the train slowed and came to a creaking stop near the docks. He opened the door. He jumped to the tracks, and ran along the embankment until he found a way over it. He had no baggage, just a navy-blue beach bag that he always carried with him, and in which he had placed his old red book.
Now he was free, and he was cold. His legs hurt after all those hours on the train. It was night, it was raining. He walked as fast as he could to get away from the city. He didn’t know where he was going. He walked straight ahead, between the walls of the warehouses, and along a road that glistened in the yellow light of the street lamps. There was no one around, no names written on the walls. But the sea wasn’t far. He guessed that it was to his right, hidden behind the tall concrete buildings, somewhere in the night.
After a while, Daniel became tired of walking. He was in the country now, the lights of the city far behind him. The night was black, and the earth and the sea invisible. He looked for a place where he could take shelter from the rain and the wind, and he discovered a wooden shed beside the road, where he lay down until morning. He hadn’t slept for several days, had barely eaten, because he had had to keep watch the whole time, through the door of the train car. He knew that he had to avoid the police. So he hid out of sight in a far corner of the shed. He nibbled at some bread and fell asleep.
When he woke up, the sun was already in the sky. He left the shed and took several steps, blinking in the light. A path led to the dunes, and he followed it. His heart began to beat harder, because he knew that the sea was just on the other side of the dunes, barely two hundred metres away. He ran along the path, climbed the sandy slope, the wind blowing harder now, carrying the unfamiliar noise and smell. Then he was at the top of the dune, and he could see it.
It was everywhere, immense, rising before him like the side of a mountain, shining blue, deep, so close, its tall waves advancing toward him.
The sea! The sea! Daniel thought, but he didn’t dare say it aloud. He stood there, unable to move, his fingers slightly spread, not quite understanding that he had slept right next to it. He heard the slow noise of the waves moving against the beach. There was no wind now, and the sun shone on the sea, lighting a fire on the crest of each wave. The sand was the color of ash, smooth, crisscrossed with streams and pools of water reflecting the sky.
To himself, Daniel repeated the lovely word over and over. The sea, the sea, the sea . . . His head was full of noise and vertigo. He wanted to speak, to shout, even, but his throat would not allow his voice to pass. Then he had to move—shouting, tossing his blue bag far across the sand, jogging with his arms and legs as if he were crossing a highway. He leaped over the bands of dead seaweed; he stumbled in the dry sand at the top of the beach. He took off his shoes and socks and, barefoot, ran still faster, not even feeling the thorns of the thistles.
The sea was far, at the other end of the field of sand. It shone in the light, its color and appearance changing: a blue expanse, then gray, green, almost black against the ochre sandbanks, the white hems of the waves. Daniel didn’t realize how far it was. He continued to run, his arms tight against his body, his heart pounding in his chest. Now he could feel the sand as hard as asphalt, wet and cold beneath his feet. As he drew closer, the sound of the waves grew louder, drowning out everything, like a steam whistle. First it was soft and slow, then violent and eerie, like a train on a railway bridge, then receding, like river water. But Daniel was not afraid. He continued to run as fast as he could in the cold air, without looking back. When he was only a few metres from the edge of the foam, he inhaled the smell of the depths and stopped. He had a cramp in his groin, and the strong scent of salt water prevented him from catching his breath.
He sat down on the wet sand and looked at the sea rising above him almost to the center of the sky. He had thought of this moment so many times, had so often imagined the day when he would finally see it, not in a photograph or in a movie but in reality, the sea itself, enormous, exposed, swollen, with its great line of waves throwing themselves forward and breaking, its clouds of foam, its drizzle of spray like dust motes in the sunlight, and, in the distance, the horizon curving like a wall across the sky! He had longed for this moment with such intensity that he was suddenly weak, as if he were about to die, or at least fall asleep.
It was really the sea, his sea, for him alone, and he knew that he could never leave it. He lay for a long time on the hard sand. He waited so long, stretched out on his side, that the sea began to climb the slope and reached his bare feet.
It was the tide. Daniel jumped to his feet, all his muscles tensed for flight. In the distance, the waves were thundering against a dark reef. But the water was still weak, breaking apart into bubbles at the foot of the beach, moving forward at a crawl. The light froth flowed around Daniel’s legs, dug holes beneath his heels. The cold water bit at his toes and his ankles, and left them numb.
Along with the tide came the wind. It blew from the horizon. There were clouds in the sky. But they were unfamiliar clouds, like the foam of the sea, and salt was flying on the wind like grains of sand. Daniel no longer thought of fleeing. He began to walk along the beach, at the edge of the water. With each wave, he felt the sand flow back and forth between his toes. The horizon, in the distance, rose and fell like a breath, launching its attacks toward the earth.
Daniel was thirsty. In the hollow of his hand, he scooped up some water and foam and drank. The salt burned his mouth and his tongue, but he continued to drink, because he loved the taste of the sea. For so long he had dreamed of this water, free, unfettered, so much water that one could drink for a lifetime! The last tide had left on the shore some slabs of driftwood and roots that looked like giant bones. Now the water slowly picked them up again, moving them a little higher up the sand, along with some great black strands of seaweed.
Daniel walked along the edge of the water, gazing greedily at everything, as if he wanted to know, in an instant, all that the sea could show him. He held in his hands the sticky seaweed and fragments of shells; he dug in the silt where worms had tunnelled. He examined everything, walking or on all fours on the wet sand. The sun was hard and strong in the sky, and the sea rumbled ceaselessly.
From time to time, Daniel stopped to face the horizon and watch the tall waves searching for a way over the reef. He inhaled with all his strength, and it was as if the sea and the horizon were filling his lungs, his stomach, his head, and he had become a kind of giant. He looked at the dark water in the distance, where there was no land and no foam, only the open sky, and it was to that part of the sea that he spoke, in a low voice, as if it could hear. He said, “Come! Come this way! Come!
“You are beautiful. You will come, you will cover the earth, the cities. You will climb as high as the mountains!
“Come, with your waves. Climb! Climb! Over here! Over here!”
Then he retreated, walking backward step by step, to the top of the beach.
In this way, he learned the course of the water as it climbed, swelling, stretching its fingers into the little valleys of sand. Gray crabs ran in front of him, their pincers raised, as light as insects. White water filled mysterious holes, flooding secret tunnels. It climbed a little higher with each wave, spreading across the sand. Daniel danced before it, like the gray crabs. He ran through it, raising his arms as the water nipped at his heels. Then he returned, digging trenches in the sand so that the water would climb faster, and humming his song to make it rise: “Come on, climb, climb, waves! Climb higher, come higher! Come on!”
He was up to his belt in the water now, but he didn’t feel cold or afraid. His sodden clothes stuck to his skin; his hair fell into his eyes like seaweed. The sea bubbled up around him, then retreated with such force that he had to grip the sand with his toes so as not to fall, then it threw itself upward again, pushing him toward the top of the beach.
Strands of dead seaweed whipped at his legs, wrapped themselves around his ankles. Daniel pulled them off like snakes, threw them into the water, yelling, “Arrh! Arrh!”
He didn’t look at the sun or the sky. He didn’t even see the distant strip of land, or the silhouettes of the trees. There was no one there, no one but the sea, and Daniel was free.
Suddenly the sea began to climb faster. It was spilling over the reef now and the waves were coming from the open sea, with nothing to hold them back. They were tall and wide, coming at a slight angle to the beach, their crests steaming, their blue centers falling away beneath them, lined with foam. They came so fast that Daniel did not have time to get away. He turned his back to run, and a wave reached his shoulders, swept over his head. Instinctively, he dug his nails into the sand and held his breath. The water thundered down on him, whirling, filling his eyes, his ears, his mouth, his nostrils.
Daniel crawled toward dry sand, struggling. He was so dizzy that he lay for a moment on his stomach, at the edge of the foam, unable to move. But more waves were grinding forward. They raised their crests and curled over, forming hollows like caves. Daniel ran for the top of the beach now, and he sat in the sand of the dunes, on the other side of the seaweed barrier. For the rest of the day, he didn’t go any closer to the sea. But his body was still trembling, and all over his skin, even inside him, was the burning taste of salt, in the depths of his eyes the dazzling mark of the waves.
At the other end of the bay was a dark promontory riddled with caves. That was where Daniel lived, for the first days after he arrived at the sea. His cave was a nook amid the black boulders, lined with pebbles and gray sand. That was where he lived for those days, without ever, so to speak, taking his eyes off the sea. 

In the early morning, when the sunlight was pale and gray, and the horizon barely visible, like a wire between the blended colors of sea and sky, Daniel would get up and leave his cave. He climbed to the top of the black boulders to drink the rainwater that collected there in pools. Huge seabirds came there, too, flying around him with long grating cries, and Daniel greeted them with whistles. When the sea was low, its mysterious depths were uncovered: ponds of dark water, streams cascading between the stones, slippery paths, and hills of living seaweed. At these times, Daniel would leave the promontory and climb down through the rocks into the center of the field uncovered by the sea. It was as if he were arriving at the center of the sea itself, a strange country, which existed for only a few hours a day.
He had to hurry. The black ribbon of the reef was close and he could hear the low rumbling of the waves, and the murmur of the deep currents. Here the sun didn’t shine for long. The sea would soon return and cover everything with shadow, and the light would reflect off the water without warming anything. The sea might reveal its secrets, but you had to learn them quickly, before they were hidden again. Daniel ran across the rocks of the seafloor, amid the forests of seaweed. A powerful smell rose from the ponds and the dark valleys, a smell unfamiliar and intoxicating to humans.
In the great pools of water, right beside the sea, Daniel looked for fish, shrimp, shellfish. He thrust his arms between the tufts of seaweed and waited for the crustaceans to come and tickle his fingers, then he caught them. In the pools, the sea anemones, purple, gray, blood-red, opened and closed their petals.
On the flat rocks lived blue and white limpets, orange sea snails, mitre snails, tellin clams, and ark clams. Sometimes, at the bottom of the pools, the light caught the wide back of a buoy or the opal mother-of-pearl of a mollusk. Or, suddenly, between the strands of seaweed, the empty shell of an old abalone, iridescent as a cloud, or the perfect form of a scallop. Daniel watched them there, for a long time, through the pane of water, and it was as if he were living in the pool as well, at the bottom of a crevice in the rock, dazzled by the sun and waiting for the night of the sea.
For food, he hunted limpets. He had to creep up on them silently so that they wouldn’t weld themselves to the rocks. Then he could unstick them with a kick, striking with the tip of his big toe. But often the limpets heard his footsteps, or the hiss of his breath, and they glued themselves to the flat rocks with a series of clicks. When Daniel had collected enough shrimps and shellfish, he’d deposit his catch in a little pool in the hollow of a rock, so that he could cook it later, in a tin can over a seaweed fire. Then he went farther out, all the way to the end of the field at the bottom of the sea, to where the waves were breaking. Because that was where his octopus friend lived.
Daniel had known the octopus since he arrived at the sea, had met it even before he knew the seabirds and the anemones. It had come right up to the edge of the breakers, when the sea and the horizon were still, and the great dark currents seemed to hold back before leaping forward. It was the most secret place in the world, there where the light shines for just minutes a day. Daniel walked very softly, clinging to the edge of the slippery rocks, as if he were descending to the center of the earth. He saw the pool of water, where long strands of seaweed swayed slowly, and he held himself still, his face almost touching the surface. Then he noticed the tentacles of the octopus floating by the edge of the pool. They were rising out of a hole near the bottom, like plumes of smoke, sliding gently among the plants. Daniel held his breath, watched the tentacles barely moving amid the strings of seaweed. 

Then the octopus came out. Its long cylindrical body moved cautiously, its tentacles undulating before it. In the brief broken light of the sun, the octopus’s yellow eyes shone like metal beneath their prominent lids. It let its long tentacles with their mauve disks float for a moment, as if it were looking for something. Then it saw Daniel’s shadow leaning over the pool and it jumped backward, clenching its tentacles and releasing a strange gray-blue cloud.
Now, as he did every day, Daniel stood at the edge of the pool, very close to the waves. He leaned over the transparent water, and softly called to the octopus. He sat on the rock, letting his bare legs trail in the water beside the crevice where the octopus lived, and he waited without moving. After a moment, he felt the tentacles lightly touching his skin, wrapping themselves around his ankles. The octopus caressed him cautiously, sometimes between the toes or on the soles of his feet, and Daniel started to laugh.
“Hello, Wyatt,” Daniel said. The octopus was called Wyatt, though of course it didn’t know its name. Daniel spoke to it in a low voice, so as not to scare it. He asked it questions about what happened at the bottom of the sea, what one could see from beneath the waves. Wyatt didn’t answer, but continued to caress Daniel’s feet and ankles, very gently, as if with strands of hair.
Daniel loved it. He could never see the octopus for long, because the sea rose quickly. When his fishing had gone well, Daniel brought a crab, or some shrimp, and released them into the pool. The gray tentacles shot out like whips, seized the prey, and carried it back to the rock. Daniel never saw the octopus eat. It was almost always hidden in its dark crevice, immobile, with its long tentacles floating in front of it. Perhaps it was like Daniel—perhaps it had travelled a long time to find its home at the bottom of the pool, from which it could see the clear sky through transparent water.
When the sea was at its lowest point, it was as if the whole world were lit up. Daniel walked over the rocks, on a carpet of seaweed, as the sun reflected off the water and the stones, lighting fires full of violence. There was no wind then, not even a breath. Above the field at the bottom of the sea, the blue sky was huge, and it shone with an exceptional light. Daniel felt the warmth on his head and shoulders. He closed his eyes so as not to be blinded by the terrible shimmering. There was nothing else, of course, nothing: the sky, the sun, the salt, which began to dance on the rocks.
One day when the sea had receded so far that you could see only a thin blue line toward the horizon, Daniel set off over the rocks at the bottom of the sea. He felt, suddenly, the intoxication of those who are about to enter virgin territory and know that they may never make it home. There was nothing familiar that day: everything was unknown, new. Daniel turned around and saw solid land behind him, like a lake of mud. He felt the solitude, the silence of the bare rocks eroded by water, the uneasiness seeping out of all the fissures and secret holes, and he began to walk faster, then run. His heart beat harder in his chest, as it had the first day he arrived at the sea. He ran without stopping to catch his breath, leaped over the pools and the seaweed valleys, followed the rocky ridges, spreading his arms to maintain his balance.
Here and there were large slimy slabs of rock, covered with microscopic algae, or sharp rocks, like blades, strange stones that looked like sharkskin. Everywhere, the pools of water sparkled, shivered. The encrusted shells on the rocks crackled in the sunlight, the rolls of seaweed made a strange steaming noise.
Daniel ran through the field at the bottom of the sea, without knowing where he was going. He didn’t stop to check the position of the waves. The sea had disappeared now; it had retreated as far as the horizon, as if it had flowed into a hole that led to the center of the earth.
Daniel was not afraid, but it was as if he were no longer entirely himself. He didn’t call the sea; he didn’t even speak to it anymore. The sunlight reflected off the water of the pools as if in a mirror; it broke against the pointed edges of the rocks; it leaped from place to place, multiplying its rays. The light was everywhere at once, so close that he could feel on his face the movement of its beams, or so far that it was like the cold sparkle of the planets. It was because of the light that Daniel was running, zigzagging across the field of rocks. The light had rendered him both free and mad, and he leaped like the light, without seeing. The light was not soft and peaceful, like the light of beaches and dunes. It was a crazy whirlpool that swirled endlessly, bouncing between the two mirrors of sky and rocks.
And then there was the salt. For days, it had been accumulating everywhere, on the black stones, on the pebbles, in mollusk shells, and even on the pale little leaves of the plants at the foot of the cliff. Salt had penetrated Daniel’s skin, had formed deposits on his lips, in his eyebrows and his eyelashes, in his hair and his clothes, and now it formed a hard carapace that burned. Salt had even found its way inside his body, into his throat, his stomach, into his very bones, where it gnawed and crunched like glass dust. It lit painful sparks on his retinas. The sunlight had inflamed the salt, and now each prism glittered around Daniel and in his body. And then there was a kind of drunkenness, an electricity that vibrated, because the salt and the light did not want him to stand still; they wanted him to run, to dance, to jump from one rock to another—they wanted him to flee across the bottom of the sea.
Daniel had never seen so much whiteness. Even the water in the pools, even the sky was white. They burned his retinas. Daniel closed his eyes entirely and he stopped, because his legs were shaking and could carry him no further. He sat on a flat rock, in front of a lake of seawater. He listened to the sound of the light bouncing off the rocks, the dry clicks and crackles, the hisses and, right next to his ears, a sharp murmur, like the bees’ song. He was thirsty, but it was as if no water could ever satisfy him. The light continued to burn his face, his hands, his shoulders. It bit at him with thousands of pricks and tingles. Salty tears began to flow from his closed eyes, slowly tracing the hot grooves of his cheeks. Struggling to half open his eyelids, he looked at the field of white rocks, the great desert where the pools of cruel water were shining. The sea animals and the shellfish had disappeared. They were hiding in the cracks, beneath the curtains of seaweed.
Daniel leaned forward on the flat rock and pulled his shirt over his head, so as not to see the light and the salt. He stayed there for a long time, immobile, his head between his knees, while the burning dance continued back and forth across the bottom of the sea.
Then came the wind, mild at first, barely moving through the thick air. Then growing, a cold wind that blew from the horizon. The pools of seawater rippled and changed color. Clouds appeared in the sky; the light became coherent again. Daniel heard the rumbling of the sea as it approached, the great waves beating their bellies against the rocks. Drops of water dampened his clothes, and he shook off his torpor.
The sea was there, already. It was coming fast, rushing to surround the first rocks, turning them into islands. It drowned the crevices, gliding forward like a river in flood. Each time it swallowed up another piece of rock there was a muffled sound that shook the base of the earth, and a roar in the air.
Daniel jumped up. He began to run toward the shore without stopping. Now he was no longer sleepy. He no longer feared the light and the salt. He felt a sort of anger growing deep inside his body, a strength that he didn’t understand, as if he could have crushed the rocks and kicked open the crevices with one blow from his heel. He ran ahead of the sea, following the path of the wind, and he heard behind him the roaring of the waves. From time to time, he called out himself, imitating them, “Rrrrr! Rrrrr!,” as if it were he who ruled the sea.
He had to run fast! The sea wanted to take everything, the rocks, the seaweed, and also the boy who was running before it. Sometimes it reached out an arm, to the left or to the right of him, a long gray arm, speckled with foam, that cut off his path. He jumped to the side and looked for another path along the surface of the rocks, as the water retreated, sucking out the holes and crevices.
Daniel swam across several lakes whose water was already cloudy. He was no longer tired. On the contrary, he felt a kind of joy, as if the sea, the wind, and the sun had dissolved the salt and freed him.
The sea was beautiful! The white spray rose in the light, high and straight, then came down in clouds of vapor that slid through the wind. New water filled the hollows of the rocks, washed away the white crust, tore off the tufts of seaweed. Far away, beside the cliffs, the white expanse of the beach shone. Daniel thought of Sinbad’s shipwreck, when he was carried by the waves to the island of King Mihrage, and it was just like that now. He ran fast across the rocks, his bare feet choosing the best route without his even having time to think about it. It was as if he had lived here always, in this field at the bottom of the sea, amid shipwrecks and storms.
He was moving at the same speed as the sea, without stopping, without catching his breath, listening to the noise of the waves. They came from the other end of the world, tall, leaning forward. Tipped with foam, they slipped across the smooth rocks and smashed into crevices.
The sun shone with its steady light, close to the horizon. It was the sun that offered the waves its strength, its light pushing them into the earth. It was like a dance that would never end, the dance of salt when the sea was low, the dance of waves and wind when the flow returned to the shore.
When the sea reached the edge of seaweed, Daniel entered his cave. He sat on the pebbles to watch the sea and the sky. But the waves were over the first band of seaweed now, and he had to retreat to the back of the cave. The sea beat on, sent its white expanse quivering across the pebbles like water about to boil. The waves continued to climb, one after the other, until they reached the last strip of seaweed and twigs—the driest seaweed, the branches of trees whitened by salt, all that had been piled up at the entrance of the cave for months. The water butted against the debris, separating pieces out and carrying them away in the undertow. Now Daniel had his back against the back wall of the cave. He could retreat no further. So he stared at the sea to stop it. With all his strength, he stared at it, unspeaking, and he sent the waves backward, making countercurrents that broke the sea’s momentum.
Several times, the waves jumped over the ramparts of seaweed and debris, splashing the back of the cave and swirling around Daniel’s legs. Then suddenly the sea stopped climbing. The terrible noise calmed, the waves became softer, slower, as if weighed down by their own foam. Daniel understood that it was over.
He lay down on the pebbles at the entrance to the cave, his head toward the sea. He trembled with cold and fatigue, but he had never known such happiness. He slept this way, in the calm, and the light of the sun went down slowly, like a dying flame.
And after this what became of him? What did he do, all those days, all those months, in his cave by the sea? Perhaps he really did go to [REDACTED], or to 4368696e61, on a cargo ship that travelled slowly from port to port, from island to island. Dreams that begin like this never have to end. For us here, far from the sea, everything was both impossible and easy. All we knew was that something strange had happened.
It was strange because there was an illogical aspect to it that contradicted what the serious people were telling us. The teachers, the administrators, the police—they had all been so desperate to find some trace of Daniel Sinbad, they had asked so many questions, and then one day, after a certain period of time had passed, they began to act as though Daniel had never existed. They never spoke of him again. They sent all his personal effects, even his old assignments, to his parents, and there was nothing left of him at the school but his memory. And even his memory they wanted little to do with. They began to talk about other things—about their wives and their houses, their cars and the local elections—as before, as if nothing had happened.
Perhaps they weren’t pretending. Perhaps they really had forgotten Daniel, after having thought of him too much for months. Perhaps if he had come back and presented himself at the door of the school, people wouldn’t even have recognized him, would have asked, “Who are you? What do you want?”
But we—we hadn’t forgotten him. In the classrooms, in the dormitory, in the courtyard, no one had forgotten him, not even those who had never known him. We talked about the usual school things—our math problems, our Latin translations—but always we were thinking of him, as if he really were a kind of Sinbad, still making his way around the world. From time to time, we’d fall silent and someone would ask a question, always the same one: “Do you think he’s there?”
No one knew exactly what we meant by “there,” but it was as if we could see the place, the immense sea, the sky, the clouds, the wild reef, and the waves, the great white birds soaring in the wind.
When the breeze shook the branches of the chestnut trees, we looked at the sky and said, in a worried tone, like sailors, “It’ll be stormy there.”
And when the winter sun shone in the blue sky we noted, “He’s lucky today.”
But we never said much more than that. It was as if we had unwittingly made a pact with Daniel, a silent, secret agreement—or perhaps it was just the dream that began, quite simply, one morning, when we opened our eyes and saw in the dim light of the dormitory Daniel’s bed, which he had made for the rest of his life, as if he would never sleep again. 

