BULLFIGHTING
By Roddy Doyle

He couldn’t really remember life before the children. He couldn’t feel it as something he’d once lived. It was too far away, and buried. Something as simple as walking down the street—he was always a father. Or looking at a woman—he was a father.
He had one child left. There’d been four, but three of them were up and running, more or less their own men. They were all boys, still teen-agers. But they weren’t his anymore. Except for the youngest. That was Peter. Peter still held Donal’s hand. Except when there were people coming toward them, boys or girls his own age or older. Then he’d let go, until they were around the corner.
And Donal knew. One day soon he’d open his hand for Peter’s, and it would stay empty. And when that happened he’d die; he’d lie down on the ground. That was how he felt. After twenty years. Independence, time to himself—he didn’t want it.
—You’ll have your own life, someone had told him.
—I have my own life, he’d said back. I fuckin’ like it.
He’d never felt hard done by—he didn’t think he had. He’d loved the life, even the stress of it. He’d be knackered tired sometimes, red-eyed and soggy, only vaguely aware that he had a name or even a gender, and still he’d think, I’m alive. Making a dinner he knew none of them would eat, or charging in to Temple Street hospital with a wheezing or a bleeding child, or standing at the side of a football pitch, in the pissing rain, twenty miles from home, watching one of the boys trying to make sure that the ball didn’t go anywhere near him. The boys had been the rhythm of every day, even when he was sleeping. He woke before they did, always. None of his lads had ever walked into an empty kitchen first thing in the morning.
There was once, he was changing a nappy. Carl’s—Carl was the second. They were at Elaine’s mother’s place. It was a Sunday afternoon. He had Carl parked in front of him, on the edge of his changing mat, his arse in the air, right over Elaine’s ma’s white carpet. He pulled the nappy out from under Carl and the shite jumped free of the nappy, a half-solid ball. Without thinking, Donal caught it—his hand just went out. The nappy in one hand, the shite in the other, Carl’s arse hanging over the carpet. And he couldn’t wait to tell everyone. He knew he had his story.
The stories—twenty years of them.
They already seemed stale. They’d been overlived, dragged out too often. He’d start talking, even thinking, and he’d feel the camera lights, the heat. He’d imagine he was talking to a studio audience, selling something, trying to convince them. But there was nothing dishonest about how he felt. Empty. Finished. The stories, his memories, were wearing out and there was nothing new replacing them. His whole fuckin’ life was going.
He watched telly now with Peter. A film on Sky Movies. “Little Man.” It was dreadful. This tiny little black guy was pretending he was a baby—Donal didn’t know why; they’d missed the start—staring at a woman’s tits, trying to grab at them. It was absolutely dreadful. But Peter was laughing, so he did, too.
—Should we be even watching this, Pete?
—It’s appropriate, said Peter. I checked.
—But he wants to have sex with the woman.
—So do you, said Peter.
—O.K., said Donal. Fair enough.
One last story for the file: So do you, he says.
Peter was ten. Donal was forty-eight. So were his friends. He liked the precision of that—all his friends were forty-eight. It was the best thing about Ireland, about [REDACTED] anyway: he could still see the men he’d grown up with. He’d gone to school with lads who’d moved to [REDACTED], the [REDACTED], even [REDACTED]. But no one he knew had ever moved south of the Liffey. They’d either got out of the country or stayed put. And Donal had been lucky. He’d walked out of school, in 1977, and straight into a job in the civil service. A few years later, the jobs weren’t there. But Donal had never been out of work. And his friends were like him. They lived in houses a few miles from where they’d all grown up. They could walk to the pub. It wasn’t the same place where they’d had their first pints, but that place was only two miles away.
They met up once a week. All four of them, or three of them, or even just the two. It was an open kind of arrangement, but a bit more organized since they’d started the texting a few years back. Pub? Ye. 9.30? Grnd. Donal never felt tired on Thursday nights. He’d be away on holidays—in [REDACTED], say, or [REDACTED], or [REDACTED], in the [REDACTED]—having a great time. But on the Thursday, wherever, he wished he was at home, on his way up to the pub.
It had always been like that. There was once, early on with Elaine, they’d been on the bed, in his flat. She’d just poured a melted Mars Bar into her navel. And she caught him looking at his watch.
—Have you something more important to do?
—God, no. Fuck, no. This is brilliant.
The hot chocolate had burned his tongue a bit, and he’d felt a little bit sick. But it had been great. He could still remember her stomach under his tongue.
—This is the first thing I’ve eaten since me breakfast, he told her, and she laughed and he could feel that, too, rippling her skin, lifting her. He’d held her—he told her this years later—he’d held her hips to keep her on her back, so that none of the melted chocolate would drop onto the sheet, because it was the only sheet he had and he didn’t want her to know that. He ate the chocolate, cleaned it all up, and then he didn’t care what way she ended up. It was up to her.
His friends never talked about sex, or health. They never had. Or problems—they didn’t really talk about their problems.
Other people didn’t really get it. Especially women. Grown men getting together like that, as if it was weird or unnatural. Or a bit silly.
—Are you meeting the lads tonight?
—I’m not answering, if you’re going to sneer like that.
—Like what?
—The lads.
She’d even asked him once, when he was putting his shoes on.
—What use are they?
—What?
—The lads, she’d said. Your friends.
—What about them?
—Why are they your friends?
—I’m not answering that.
—Don’t be so touchy, she said. I’m curious.
—Well, stay curious.
—I’m sorry. I didn’t mean anything.
—Why do I have to defend myself?
—You don’t.
—I have to explain why my friends are my friends. Why the fuck should I?
—Don’t, if you don’t want to.
—I never ask you about your friends, he said.
—I know, she said. You don’t even know their names.
—I do.
She smiled.
—I do, he insisted. There’s Mary and . . .
—Stop, she said. Listen. I suppose what I’m wondering is: What do you talk about?
He looked at her.
—Football, he said.
He knew she’d hate the answer.
—Is that all?
—No.
—What else? she said. Help me here.
He didn’t know what else to give her. He didn’t know how to explain it. How what they talked about wasn’t important. How they could sit and say nothing much, for most of the night. And he’d still come home feeling great.
Appreciated.
—Jokes, he said.
—You tell jokes.
—Yeah, he said. If we’ve heard any new ones.
—That’s nice.
She wasn’t sneering.
—Mind you, he said. You never hear jokes these days. It’s all e-mail stuff. No one makes up jokes anymore. Like stories, you know.
She nodded.
—Can I go now? he said.
—Go on.
He was the first in. Their usual table was free. He nodded at the barman, raised one finger. He always liked that. The fact that he could order a pint without talking. He’d been coming here for years. The barman was Polish. He’d only been working here for three months or so, but he knew what Donal’s order was, and Donal had never had to tell him. The Poles were great.
He sat and looked at the snooker on the telly. He hadn’t a clue who was playing. He didn’t know either of the players. They looked younger than his older kids. Hair gel, and little rectangular ads stitched onto their waistcoats. They looked too young to be out in the world on their own, millionaires already, more than likely.
He was out of touch. He knew it.
The lounge girl came up with his pint in the center of her tray.
—Thanks, said Donal.
—Of course.
She was Lithuanian, as far as Donal remembered. Or Latvian. A lovely young one, lovely attitude.
He gave her a tenner. She gave him his change, and he gave her back some of it.
—Thank you.
—You’re grand.
Donal felt the draft, and saw Gerry closing the door behind him.
The lounge girl was waiting.
—Will you like another pint of Guinness?
—Great, yeah. Thanks.
He felt a bit uncomfortable with her. She was a woman and a girl—that was the problem. And the attraction. And the problem. He’d have been happier with a lounge boy.
—Fuckin’ cold out there, said Gerry.
This was how it happened. They arrived in a clump, from one man to four inside a minute or two. As if they’d been hiding behind the bushes outside until one of them made the move and went in. Or something, an instinct, told the four of them to get up from the telly and go, at the same time every Thursday.
Donal watched the other two, Ken and Seán, wrap the wires around their iPods and put them into their jacket pockets. He decided again: he’d get an iPod.
—What were yis listening to? he asked.
—Springsteen, said Ken.
—The new album?
—Yep.
—Any good?
—His best since the last one.
The young one brought the pints. Donal paid her, and tipped her again. He’d given her four euros, for one round. It made him feel seedy, and generous.
They’d have four pints. They might go to five. Four was automatic. The fifth was always a decision. It used to be more. They used to drink all day, days in a row, weekends drunk, into work on Monday, drunk. Donal and Gerry had gone twenty-four hours once, in Majorca. They’d found a bar that would let them drink till daylight. They’d had breakfast—Traditional English Breakfast—on the way back to the apartment. He remembered being surprised that he could hold the knife and fork.
Seán looked around.
—How many in here would you say have snorted cocaine?
—None, said Gerry.
He was probably right.
—Not according to the news, said Seán. We’re all fuckin’ snorting.
—I’ve never even seen cocaine, said Gerry. Have any of youse?
They shook their heads.
Some young one, a model, had died, and two other kids in Wexford or Waterford—they’d eaten damp cocaine. The radio was full of it, and the television. Middle-class men, their faces fuzzy and their voices disguised, describing their cocaine hells. “It’s on the cheese board. Every dinner party I’ve been to.” And hidden cameras, in pub toilets. More fuzzy faces, leaning over cisterns, with rolled-up euros.
—What about your kids? said Ken.
They all had kids, teen-agers and older.
Donal shrugged.
—Don’t know, he said. Don’t think so.
—How do you know?
—I don’t, said Donal. But I think I would.
Gerry nodded.
—How would we know? he said. Unless they went crazy, or something.
—A swab, said Seán.
—What?
—A swab. Of the cistern, or a shelf. For traces of cocaine.
They laughed. Three of them laughed.
—You couldn’t do that in my house, said Gerry. The jacks is never empty.
—I did, said Seán.
They looked at him. They stared at him.
—You did a—what?—a test? A fuckin’ swab?
—Yep, said Seán. [#unhandled_cartoon]
—Did you get a kit or something? Gerry asked him. Do you not have to be a fuckin’ forensics expert or something?
—Not at all, said Seán. All you need is a cotton bud. I ran one across the top of the jacks. The cistern, like.
—And?
—It was filthy.
They laughed again.
—White particles, said Seán.
—Dust, said Donal. Talc. The jacks would be full of it. Any room. The air’s full of dust.
—Did you have them tested? The white particles.
—No, said Seán.
—So? said Gerry. What did you prove?
—I sniffed the bud, said Seán. Snorted it, like. So to speak.
—And?
—I was high as a fuckin’ kite.
He was joking.
—Dancing with the fridge. Seriously, though, he said. I’ve been watching my girls since it got into the news. And they’re the same as they’ve ever been. So they either aren’t using cocaine or they’ve always been using cocaine.
He shrugged.
—They’re grand, he said. The only one that might be snorting is Maeve.
Maeve was his wife.
—D’you reckon?
—It would explain quite a lot, said Seán.
He left it at that. They didn’t talk about the wives. They drifted from cocaine to football, and on to the film that Gerry had seen at the weekend and the others wanted to see.
—How was Denzel?
—Brilliant.
And on to international affairs.
—Poor oul’ Benazir.
—What a place.
—Mad. Would you have given her one?
—Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
—Too late now, an’anyway.
—She was a fine thing. I liked her head scarf.
—That’s the thing, though, said Donal. Women don’t wear them here anymore.
—Not even at [REDACTED]
—They’ll make a comeback, said Ken. Wait and see. Abercrombie & Fitch or somebody will bring back the head scarf.
—Benazir but, said Gerry. She was a lot better-looking than any of the women politicians in this country.
—That’s for sure.
—What about Hillary Clinton?
—No.
—A few years back, maybe. Not now, though.
—She’d be saying the same thing about us.
—She hasn’t a clue.
—Would you ride Obama?
—Not unless he was a woman.
—I have a dream.
That was the night the idea was planted. They’d go away together, to 537061696e.
—The four of us?
—Why not? said Gerry.
—Sounds good.
Gerry’s brother had a place down there.
—Where?
—Valencia. Near there. A half hour or so. Inland. No sand or shite. It’s great.
There was no decision that night, nothing firm. Donal said nothing to Elaine about it. He waited for Gerry to bring it up the next Thursday.
—Did yis give any more thought to that?
—What? said Ken.
—537061696e.
—Your brother’s gaff?
—Yeah.
They looked at one another, and shrugged, and smiled.
—Well, I’m going, said Gerry.
—Grand.
They went a few weeks after Easter. A Ryanair flight to Valencia, then a hired car. Donal had driven in [REDACTED], but in his own car; they’d always got the ferry. They’d been to [REDACTED] four times. Always the same place, camping. The last time was five years ago. The year after that, the eldest, Matthew, said he wouldn’t go. They couldn’t make him—he was fifteen—and he was too young to leave behind.
They drove into the town. It seemed deserted, and a bit ugly.
—Is this the siesta?
—Suppose so.
It was early afternoon.
Gerry parked outside a bar.
—There’s people in there, so they’re not all asleep.
They sat outside, with four bottles of beer that cost the same as one bottle at home. Seán took off his jumper.
—That’s it, lads. I’m on me holidays.
—Good man.
—How far is the house?
—Three minutes.
—Grand.
—This is fuckin’ great, said Donal.
But he was disappointed. It was great, a week away from everything. But the town itself was shite. It was dead. Their table was on a street, but it didn’t matter because the street was empty. He sat up and looked properly.
—What’s that?
—What?
—The wall down there. The curved wall.
—The bullring, said Gerry.
—For bullfighting?
—Yeah.
—Serious?
—Yeah.
—Great.
—No, said Gerry. It’s a pain in the hole. Boring.
—Still, though, said Donal.
—Do they kill the bulls?
—Yeah.
—Cool.
—They, like, release them first, said Gerry. Let them run through the streets.
—And that’s fuckin’ boring, is it? said Seán.
—It is, said Gerry. Believe me.
—Still, though, said Donal.
—It’s the fiesta, said Gerry. The annual festival. Saint something. Or the Virgin Mary.
—They slaughter bulls for the Virgin Mary?
—Wait’ll you see it later, said Gerry. It’s good. The fiesta bit.
He stood up.
They got back in the car. Gerry took them out of the town, past a field full of solar panels, and behind a small industrial estate. In [REDACTED], this was where you dumped the body or the fridge. Here it was a row of flat-roofed houses, under palm trees.
—Here we are.
It was the last house in the row.
Gerry got out and unlocked the gate. They got out and followed him. They saw the pool but kept behind Gerry as he got the front door open and walked into hot dead air.
—Fuckin’ hell.
They hoisted the shutters and opened all the windows. There weren’t many; it wasn’t a big house. They threw bags on the beds and then they went out to the pool.
—It’s nice and clean.
—There’s a chap keeps an eye on it for [REDACTED].
[REDACTED] was Gerry’s brother.
—He throws in the chlorine and scoops out the flies and that.
—What’s that?
There was a white machine, like a fat pup with a trunk, moving very slowly along the bottom.
—It’s a hoover, said Gerry.
—For fuck sake. Is it on all the time?
—Think so, yeah.
—Clever.
—It’s useless, said Gerry. If it’s the same one. It just moves into a corner and stays there. So the corner’s spotless and the rest of it gets covered in fuckin’ goo.
They got into the togs and sat looking at the water and, one at a time, they got in, because there wasn’t really room for more than one man, the way they swam. They sat with their backs to the industrial estate and let themselves get hungry. They chatted and kept an eye on the sun. The watches were off, thrown onto the beds. They had one more swim, then showered and put on the shorts and T-shirts. The shorts were new. They never wore shorts at home.
—Is that a bruise?
—Varicose vein.
—Lovely.
—You can show it to whatever young one you pick up tonight in town.
—I’ll tell yeh. Show a bird your varicose veins and she’ll be on you like a fuckin’ barnacle.
They waited till Gerry locked the gate.
—Dogs, he said. Have to keep them out.
—What? said Donal. Wild?
—Kind of.
—Jaysis.
—It’s the one bad thing, said Gerry. The way they treat the dogs.
And now they could hear them. Dogs howling, baying—whatever it was.
—Are they all wild?
—No, said Gerry. Just fuckin’ miserable.
Gerry showed them the lane that would get them to town. They walked, all four men in a row. The sandals slapped the dust.
They went past the industrial estate and the tied-up dogs.
—What gets made in there?
—Nothing. As far as I know.
—Distribution?
—Maybe. But I’ve never seen a truck.
—Who feeds the dogs?
—There’s an automatic feeder. It releases enough food every day. And water. They all have them. Most of the houses are empty during the week.
—That’s terrible.
—Talkin’ about feeders, said Donal, I’m fuckin’ starving.
They all were.
—A few scoops, a game of pool, and the nose bag. How’s that for a plan?
They ignored the bullfighting. It was on the telly, a local channel, in the bar. And it was outside. There were people running down the street, and back up the street. And a marching band, somewhere. Donal wanted to have a look, but Gerry was the local and he didn’t even look out the window. And, fair enough, it all looked shite on the telly. There was a bull standing still, outside a church—it looked like. And young lads, all young lads, were walking carefully up to it, and touching it and dashing back. It looked like something anyone could do. The young lads all wore red T-shirts. Trying to provoke the bull, he supposed. But the bull wasn’t having any of it. He just stood there, still. Then he was gone, off the screen, in the time it took Donal to bend down at the table and pretend he was sizing up his shot—he hadn’t a clue, really. The commentator was going mad, but all Donal could see was the door of the church.
They finished the game and went walking. The excitement was still in the street. The young lads, bashing against one another, thumping their chests. There was no sign of the bull, although there was dung in the air and—Donal saw it now—blood on the street. A topic for the phone call home in the morning. The marching band was still marching, but they still hadn’t seen it. There were stalls down both sides of the main street, and Donal saw some of the stuff he’d bring home, the small presents the kids used to charge down the hall for when they heard him coming in the door, after he’d been away for a day or two because of work.
They found a place and ate well. Good, big steaks.
—Straight off the fuckin’ bull.
The waiter recognized Gerry, smiled at him.
—Irish, yes?
—Yeah, good man.
—How are you? said the waiter.
—Good, said Gerry. Yeah. How’s business?
—You are my business.
He clapped his hands.
—Business is good.
They stopped at another bar. Another few drinks, at a table outside. The loud young lads were gone. There were families strolling, proud men pushing buggies.
—It’s after one.
—A different world.
—It’s very civilized.
—If this was [REDACTED], we’d be watching the fight.
—We’d be at home.
They walked back to the house at about three.
—A swim?
—Don’t be fuckin’ stupid.
They slept through the dogs. The room was still dark when Donal woke. But there was a day outside; he could feel it pressing against the shutter. He got out of the bed, and he was grand. No bother. He went out to the hall and looked at his phone. One o’clock. He’d woken up in the afternoon. He couldn’t remember the last time that had happened. Long before kids, before marriage. He went out to the pool, and Gerry was there, listening to his iPod.
Donal sat beside him.
—What’re you listening to?
—The Cure.
—The Cure? Are they still good?
—They’re great. Hang on. I can link this up to the speakers inside. It’ll wake the other pair up.
He went inside and, a minute later, Donal was listening to “The Love Cats.” Gerry came back with a pot of good, solid coffee. The other two got up. They chatted. They swam. They read. They ate some bread and cheese. They got bored with the Cure, so Gerry changed it to Echo and the Bunnymen. Donal was definitely getting an iPod. He’d forgotten these bands had existed.
—D’you remember 4a6170616e?
—They haven’t aged well.
—Have they not? What about Madness?
—Kids love Madness.
—I love Madness. Talking Heads?
—They’re next.
The sun started dipping, and Seán came out with four bottles of Stella.
That was their week in 537061696e. Their routine. Like heaven, in the Talking Heads song. Where nothing ever happened.
The songs were queuing up.
He rang home every day, walked around the pool while he talked to Elaine and Peter, and the older boys if they were at home. He texted them, too. Hw’r things? They usually got back to him. Gnd, or Gud, or Fin. U? But he didn’t really miss them. He didn’t think about them. He didn’t ache to hold them as they used to be, their weight in his arms, their smells under his nose. He didn’t mind being alone in the bed when he woke. He liked it, just himself, nothing to remember or catch up on. He stopped hearing the dogs.
The three lads were up before him one of the mornings. Gerry was walking around the pool, worrying the hoover with the butt of a brush, pushing it out toward the center. Ken had his BlackBerry, was poking away at it with the little plastic stick.
He put it on the table. [#unhandled_cartoon]
—There now, he said. That should keep the economy afloat.
—Day’s work done?
—And no one even knows I’m here. This is the world we live in, men.
Ken had rigged his life so that where he actually was rarely mattered. And Gerry was the same. Gerry and Ken had slid into self-employment, about fifteen years before. Donal hadn’t noticed—too busy changing nappies. And he was happy enough where he was, in the Revenue. He still liked it, going after the farmers. He’d found bogus accounts and all sorts of hidden accounts. Hairy men with shite on their boots, with millions stashed away in the Caymans and Bermuda, or in biscuit tins under their beds. A few years back, he’d been asked into an office, for a chat. Had he ever thought of the C.A.B.? He must have looked a bit slack-jawed, because the man in a better suit than Donal’s provided a word for each of the letters.
—Criminal Assets Bureau. Would you be up for it?
—Are they not the Guards? said Donal. Cops. Going after gangsters?
—It’s liquid, said his boss’s boss. You’d be on secondment. And, now, you wouldn’t be breaking down doors or anything like that. It wouldn’t be “The Untouchables.” Will you think about it, anyway? We wouldn’t be asking if we didn’t think you were the man they needed.
—Thanks.
—You’ll think about it?
—Yeah, he said. I will.
—I’ll leave it with you.
He didn’t tell Elaine; he told no one. He was flattered, thrilled. He actually saw himself in the part; he felt the door give way against his shoulder. Felt the weight of the shotgun. Felt—saw—his eyes match the look coming at him from the drug baron across the room.
They never came back to him about it, but that didn’t matter. He couldn’t have gone to work knowing that Elaine or the kids were worried about him. He didn’t think it was just an excuse, or a lie. He didn’t think it then—he wasn’t sure. It was six or seven years ago. Six. And, actually, he was sure. He’d wanted nothing to do with gangland warlords or major drug dealers. He was happier with the farmers.
Gerry had always been a bit more daring, or mad. Donal could see him now. He rolled—he multitasked. He scooped the dead stuff out of the pool with a net while he sold a guy in [REDACTED] an insurance policy, or something. An update, Gerry called it.
—You’re what? said Gerry, to the phone. Fifty-two?
Now he was shoving the hoover back to the middle of the pool.
—It’s not about the years you’ve left, Mick, he said.
He was wearing a Red Hot Chili Peppers T-shirt, nearly faded to nothing. One of his kids’, Donal guessed.
—It’s about the years you’ve already lived, he said. What you have to show for them, what there is to protect. Are you with me?
He sat down and picked up one of the bottles.
—It’s not going to get cheaper because you’ve less years to live. It’s insurance I’m selling, not milk. And look, I’m not even selling it. You’re already well covered. I’m just telling you about it. I have to. It’s the law.
He took a swig from the bottle.
—537061696e, he said. Yeah, it’s great. Just me and a few lads. No. No golf. Fuck golf. You know about me and golf. So, anyway, grand, there’s no hurry. You phone me, Mick. Either way, yeah. I will, yeah. Good luck.
He put the phone on the table. He said nothing. It was just work, the way he did it now—what he used to do at a desk, or in a pub or a restaurant, five years ago. He’d adjusted. He could work beside a swimming pool in 537061696e, with his best friends.
—The world, said Ken, one of the nights they were out.
—What about it?
—It’s grand, said Ken. But I worry a bit sometimes.
—Why?
—Not about global warming or that, said Ken. That’ll sort itself out. There’ll be good and bad there.
They nodded. They all kind of agreed, and none of them wanted to talk about global warming. They were wearing shorts and sandals. It was boring.
—Just, said Ken. The future. Like, I’ve complete faith in us. Our age group. And the very young. Kids, like.
Donal knew what he meant.
—It’s the ones in between, he said.
And Ken nodded.
—Exactly, he said. D’you know many people in their thirties?
—One or two, said Seán.
—Fuckin’ eejits, said Ken. Every one of them. I’m right, amn’t I?
—Yeah, said Donal. But you’re right about kids as well. They’re brilliant.
They were talking shite, enjoying themselves. But, still and all, Donal nearly cried. He was talking about his own kids. Moving away from him, setting off on their own. He loved it and hated it. He’d never get over it. But he’d have to.
Gerry looked at him.
—Are you all right? he said, quietly.
—I’m grand, said Donal.
And he was. They’d never talk about it. Except agree, and move on.
The day before they left for home, they went into Valencia. They got up in time to catch the bus. Past half-built apartment blocks and wasteland—no real countryside, and no sea. They yawned and chatted till Gerry stood up, and they followed him off the bus. They wandered around for a couple of hours. They went into the cathedral. Donal put fifty cents in a slot and watched the electric candles come on. He walked away before they went off again. They went to an old market, the Plaza Redonda, and decided not to buy any bootleg DVDs because they didn’t want to carry them around all day and lose them. They went into a tapas place and ate about fifty euros’ worth of the little things along the counter. They went to a bar with a big screen, to watch the English football. They had their first beers, slowly, and a few more, slowly, till the match was over, and they went for a stroll. They found a small corner bar with a very good-looking waitress, and they stayed there till it was dark. They talked more than they had all week. Got pissed slowly, enjoyed the fact that they knew they were getting pissed. They couldn’t come back from the jacks without slapping a back. The talk got a bit mad. The first ride, the best ride, the weirdest, the longest.
—Four minutes.
—Four and a half.
—Good man.
Ever with another man.
—No.
—No way.
Ever curious.
—No. Not really.
Ever with a relation.
—Does it have to be blood relation?
—Yeah.
—Then no.
—Who, but?
—Her ma.
—Your mother-in-law?
—Yeah.
—You’re jesting.
—I’m not.
—You are.
—Yeah. I am. But it was touch and go. At her da’s funeral, you know. Back at the house.
They were the only ones laughing in the bar. They left, and moved on to another one. David Bowie and another good-looking waitress. Donal told them about the job in the C.A.B. They told him he’d been right not to take it. They all told him that. They had more tapas in another place. Seán told Donal that his marriage was on the rocks. Gerry told Donal that his marriage was on the rocks. Donal told Gerry that his own had been rocky for a while, but that things were grand now, much better. Then he told Seán. And Ken. Then they were in a taxi, heading back to the town. Laughing. Three of them squashed into the back. Gerry in the front beside the driver.
It was three in the morning. There was still a bar open, the one just down from the bullring. Ken went in, came back out with four bottles. They sat. They heard the marching band. It might have been a different band. They still hadn’t seen it.
—At this time? said Seán.
—The town that never sleeps.
Donal stood up. He left his bottle on the table. He’d had enough. He wanted the bed.
He walked.
There was some sort of action going on at the bullring. The exit gates were open. It was lit, inside. He could see people, lots of young lads, standing in the ring. There was a barrier between him and the ring, like the metal bars of a jail. The bars were wide enough apart for people to get through, but—he supposed—solid enough to stop a bull. He went in, sideways, between two of the bars. He walked into the ring. It was quiet—he couldn’t hear the band—but the seats all around seemed full. A double gate at the other side was wide open, but he couldn’t see anything beyond it. The young lads were just standing there.
He heard an engine. A truck, a big one, reversed slowly through the double gates. Lads got out of the way. A man in a black T-shirt jumped out of the cab and went to the back of the truck. There was another man there with him. They lowered the tailgate—Donal heard chains and a rumble—and they stood back. The crowd roared, and he saw the bull charge down the ramp, then stop. Dead still. Like the bull on a wine bottle. Black and huge, and still. The young lads didn’t move any nearer, but no one ran. Donal moved a step closer. The truck was leaving, slowly. He watched till it was gone, and the double gates were shut behind it. The bull had moved. Not much—he didn’t think—the angle was different, turned more toward Donal. Then the strange thing happened. A man with a burning torch—Donal hadn’t seen him arrive—walked right up to the bull and set fire to it. The two horns were on fire. Red flames roared over its head.
There was a hand on Donal’s shoulder.
—You might want to step back a bit.
It was Gerry.
—Yeah, said Donal.
—Behind the barrier.
—Yeah.
He looked behind him. He’d gone farther than he’d thought—he hadn’t thought at all. He was turning away when the bull moved.
—Fuckin’ Jesus.
It ran, dashed, in a broken stop-start—fast. Every move covered distance. They wouldn’t have had a hope. But it didn’t come at them. It went across the ring, then away and out a different gate that Donal hadn’t seen. The horns three times higher, because of the flames. It was gone just as Donal realized he was falling. His chest hit the ground, his chin. He felt grit in his hands. But he was fine, standing up again, grand. He felt his chin. The ring was empty.
—Where’s he gone?
There was no blood in his mouth. He rubbed his hands clean.
They went out to the street. There was no sign of the bull. Or anything, really. It was over.
—That was great, said Donal. Fuckin’ great.
What he’d just seen. What he’d just done.
—I didn’t know they set fire to the poor fuckers as well, said Seán.
—Why do they?
—Fuck knows, said Gerry. It’s mad.
They walked to the house. One more beer, out at the pool. Gerry stuck on the music. Donal held the bottle against his chin.
The way the bull had stood absolutely still.
He put the bottle on the table.
Then the movement. Across the ring. The speed. The flames.
He went over to the pool.
The feeling he’d had, before the bull moved. Not caring. But knowing he was safe—it hadn’t felt stupid.
He puked into the pool. On his knees. Straight in.
Echo and the Bunnymen. The dogs howling.
There was no more. He lay down. He could hear the hoover under the water.
Gerry was beside him.
—Feeling better?
—Sorry.
—No bother.
—How do you get vomit out of water?
—Don’t worry about it. We’ll throw in a bucket of chlorine. That should fix it. It’ll eat it or something.
Gerry was sitting beside him.
—All right?
—Grand, said Donal. Thanks.
—No bother.
—A great day, said Donal. Wasn’t it?
—Yeah, said Gerry. Brilliant.
—Brilliant.
He lay there for a while longer, his face on his arm. He felt good—clear. He’d get up in a minute. He might finish the bottle. He was fine.
—Fuckin’ brilliant.
This was living, he thought. This was happiness.

