DON’T CRY
By Mary Gaitskill

Our first morning in Addis Ababa there was wedding music playing outside the hotel. We had travelled for twenty hours and we were deeply asleep. The music entered my sleep in the form of lights, moving like fireflies or animate laughter, in a pattern, but a loose and playful one. I was dreaming that I was with my husband, Thomas; he had just died, but in the dream he was alive and very young, and we were chasing a light that had come free of the others, running down a winding path with darkness all around.
When I woke, at first I did not know where I was. The music seemed more real than the dingy room; its sound saturated me with happiness and pain. Then I saw Katya and remembered where we were and why. She was already up and standing at the window, lifting a shade to peer out—the sun made a warm place on her skin and I felt affection for her known form in this unknown place. She turned and said, “Janice, there’s weddings going on outside—plural!”
We went outside. All around our hotel were gardens, and in the gardens were crowds of people dressed in the bright colors of undiluted joy. Brides and grooms were wearing white satin, and the streets were lined with white flower-covered limousines, and together with so much color the white also seemed colorful. Little girls in red-and-white crinoline ran past us, followed by a laughing woman. Everyone was laughing or smiling, and because I could not tell where the music was coming from, I had the sensation that it was coming directly from these smiling, laughing people. Katya turned to me and said, “Are we in heaven?”
I answered, “I don’t know,” and for a second I meant it.
In the dirty hotel restaurant we ate dry, bricklike croissants and lots of good fruit—papaya, mangoes, bananas, oranges, and pineapple. The coffee was burnt, so we decided to go to an espresso place that we’d been told was just a few blocks away. We never found it, although we walked a long time. At first, we walked on a crowded paved street, with department stores, an Internet café, and a grocery store with a big Magic Marker drawing (green and red) of fruit and vegetables in the window. Starving dogs wandered freely. The pavement abruptly fell off and the street became rocky. We saw another wedding party, in a Mercedes decked with rich-colored flowers, moving through a herd of donkeys, the herders lagging behind, talking on their cell phones. Beggars swarmed around us, shouting and showing us their deformed limbs, their blind eyes. We forgot our espresso. The rocky street gave way to dirt with pools of muddy water. Houses, patched together with tin, plastic, canvas, and wood, bulged out, sagged in, lurched, and leaned this way and that. Wedding guests in gold pants and silky shirts pushed their broken-down car through slowly parting pedestrians. A little boy marched along blowing a horn; he was followed by an even smaller boy, shouting and rhythmically shaking a clutch of bells on a strap. The smell of fresh shit rose up suddenly and mixed with the odors of sweat and cooked meat. An old woman seated in the roots of a giant tree sold bundled sticks and dresses mounted on smiling white mannequins. Trees made soft, blunt, deep-green shapes with their boughs. Katya turned to me, her face dazed. “We’d better go back,” she said. “We’re getting lost.”Katya was in [REDACTED] to adopt a baby; I was there to help her. Katya had asked me to go with her because I was one of her oldest friends, going back to our waitressing days in [REDACTED]. She was a narrow little woman with a broad, bossy air: ugly-beautiful, her full lower lip a bit too pendulous, her hips and breasts small but highly charged, her black hair big, curly, and shining with secreted oil. The restaurant we’d worked at was run by Mafia thugs, and they would sometimes come in before our shift to do coke with us. The head thug really liked Katya; he confided in her and asked her advice and she consoled him and bossed him around.
In those days, I was putting myself through a writing program; she was having experiences. I got married and turned into an English professor who publishes stories in quarterly magazines. She started various businesses, which she either failed at or got bored of and sold. She had family money to begin with, and in spite of the failures along the way she actually amassed some money of her own. Eventually, she opened a boutique in [REDACTED], which was where she lived. She had made some 457468696f706961n friends, one of whom, a woman named Meselu, ran a “big woman’s” store across the street from Katya’s.
Katya had been thinking of adoption for some time. This was 2005, and she was already forty-nine. She didn’t want to go through an agency in [REDACTED], because it pissed her off that the agencies would give the birth mother full disclosure regarding the adoptive parent but not vice versa. She didn’t want to go through a foreign agency, because most of them required a two-year wait, and she felt that she was too old. She had learned through someone on the Internet—a woman in [REDACTED] who’d adopted an 457468696f706961n child three years earlier—that independent adoptions in [REDACTED] were relatively easy. It helped, of course, that Meselu could hook her up with people in Addis Ababa, including a driver named Yonas, who specialized in clients who were there to adopt.
When Katya asked me if I would go to Africa with her, I said yes, because Thomas had died four months earlier and I hadn’t yet gone back to teaching. In the emptiness of my life, it didn’t seem to matter what I did; between doing nothing and doing something, it seemed better to do something. Thomas and I had never had children, and maybe, without thinking about it, I wanted to help my friend give a child safe passage. Katya had never been lucky with men and I knew that she had always envied me my marriage; perhaps I was hoping to balance my loss with something good for her. In any case, before I left I took Thomas’s wedding ring from the altar I had made in our bedroom, took my own ring from my finger, and put them both on a gold chain around my neck.
T he day after we arrived was a Saturday, so we weren’t able to go to any orphanages; instead, we had dinner with Meselu’s relatives. We took with us the huge bundles of clothes, toiletries, and batteries that Meselu had sent. The house was behind a high stone wall, with an archway bowered with thick-growing plants. The family matriarch, Zeyneb, served us a spread with a dozen little meat dishes—goat and lamb in a variety of sauces—with bread made from a grain called teff. Zeyneb sat at the head of the table in a crimson dress and passed the dishes in a formal manner. Most of her family was there: one of her two daughters, three of her four sons, and six grandchildren. One of the sons—Meselu’s uncle—spoke a little English, and he translated as well as his skill would allow. We couldn’t understand a lot of it; we heard something about the election and the government. Zeyneb said something about adoption and things having changed. The grandchildren talked loudly and happily among themselves, listening sideways to the uncle’s translations of our speech. Zeyneb asked how many children I had. When I said none, one of the little girls looked at me piercingly.
That night we went to bed early—we had to. The power was out and by eight-thirty it had got too dark to read. It was almost cold, so we slept with the windows shut; the muffled street sound had a lulling effect. Katya said she was too excited to sleep, but she drifted off quickly; I was the one who stirred all night, unable to sleep or to stay fully awake. The morning’s wedding music crowded my mind, the bright colors and smiles, the running girls, the laughing woman. Cars mingled with donkeys. Beggars came bursting out of the wedding crowd, shouting. One of them was a boy I had seen that morning and tried not to notice, a boy with a gouged-out eye socket. We emptied our purses, but it was not enough.
I touched the wedding rings around my neck. Thomas appeared to me and sat on the bed. I stretched out my hand to him; the street crowd vanished. I remembered Thomas inside me. Children peered around a dark corner—first they were Zeyneb’s grandchildren, then they were unborn children waiting for Thomas and me to conceive them. Among them was the boy with the gouged eye, not begging but waiting to be born. “I want you now,” I whispered. Thomas answered, “I am here,” but faintly. Chanting sounded. It was haunting, stern, as implacable as a machine. Rules, I thought. Punishment: it’s coming. The chanting filled the suffocating room. “Shut up!” I hissed. “Just shut the fuck up!”
Katya stirred and murmured, “What?”
“This noise, what is it?”
“Zeyneb said it’s from the churches. Go back to sleep—it’s going to go on all day.”
When Yonas came to pick us up at the hotel, he told us that every Saturday at this time of year people in Addis Ababa come out to get married and that our hotel was an especially popular spot because of the gardens. He was a young man with a profound feeling of age about him. When we told him how heavenly the weddings had seemed to us, he gravely bobbed his head and made the quick, sharp inhalation that we were beginning to understand as “yes.” He held open the door of his rattling Soviet car for us and said something I didn’t catch. We got in and sank into the broken, reeking cushions, almost down to the floor. 
Yonas drove us to the first orphanage on our list. It was Catholic. It was a compound made of concrete, with a tin door, heavily patched with roofing tile, in a doorway that was big enough to drive a car through. A girl pocked with open sores and dressed in filthy rags was huddled near it, with a baby in her arms. I expected her to beg from us but she didn’t have the strength; she didn’t have the strength to swat the flies away. We tried to give her money—I bent down and held it in front of her face—but she didn’t even look at it. She just stared at the door. We tried the door and found it locked. Katya knocked. No one came. I looked at the girl’s baby; its eyelids were encrusted with parasites and swarming with flies. Katya knocked again, louder and longer. Street traffic went back and forth. Again, I tried to give the girl some money. She stared at the door as if I weren’t there. I tried to look into the baby’s eyes but its little face was numb with suffering; it didn’t see me, either. Katya knocked again. We waited. I imagined children peering from behind the door. Finally, Katya turned away, her face white.
When we got back into the car we asked Yonas if there was something we could do for the girl with the baby.
He shook his head. “I don’t think we can help her. Probably she’s dying—she knows she’s dying and she wants her baby to be taken into the orphanage when she does.”
His tone was gentle and matter-of-fact, and there was no response to make to what he had said.
At the next orphanage we knocked and the door was opened. We were escorted through a barren courtyard and into a large office with a concrete floor. A girl dressed in shabby Western clothes passed by the open door, craning her head to look at us as she did. We waited half an hour before a young woman came to tell us that the director of the orphanage was not available. We asked when she might be available and the young woman shook her head. Katya asked if we might meet some of the children, anyway; again the young woman shook her head. “They are busy,” she said.
No one in authority was available at the next orphanage, or the next one, or the one after that; all the children were busy. When we got back into the car, Katya said to Yonas, “Get us out of here. Please. Take us someplace out of the city. Someplace where we can breathe.”
We drove down a street of tin shanties and stalls hung with bananas and talismans that appeared to be made of hair; a dim electrical buzzing began in my ears. He can’t breathe. Thomas’s daughter, Elena, had said this just before he died. His breath had become faster and shallower. He was still alive, but decomposition had begun—I was so used to it that it didn’t even seem horrible to me. I was so used to it that, even then, when I touched him, I could feel him. His warmth, his personality, everything that I had thought of as his physical energy: I still felt it when I put my hands on him; it was moving in him still. Though maybe now it was moving out of instead of through him.
We passed a street that looked like a dark pit letting loose its buildings and people. There was garbage strewn all around. A woman in a huge hat crouched in it, selling what looked like prepared food. I thought of Thomas’s old aunt Lucinda in her big hat, picking through somebody’s garage sale. Lucinda had raised Thomas, because one day, when he was seven, his mother had got on a bus and never come back. Lucinda had been the only member of his family to really accept me, and she was half-senile.
When Thomas and I met, Elena was already a young woman. I’d see her and her brother, Frank, on holidays, and our relationship was mostly polite. But when Thomas got sick she rented an apartment close to us. She was there for her father, but her feeling for me had changed, too; I could tell by the way her hip touched mine when she kissed me good night.
But Frank, the son—in the beginning he flirted with me, and by the end he was screaming about money. Especially he screamed about my having redone the bathroom with a luxury marble shower while his dad was sick—but that damn shower was one of the last things that Thomas had been coherent about. He had wanted it, not me.
The buzzing in my ears grew louder. “Look!” Katya cried. Out the window, there was a smiling lion carved into a stony hill, climbing three steps at the top of which a Coca-Cola bottle announced a refreshment stand. We parked, and Yonas hired two teen-agers to take us up into the mountains for three U.S. dollars.
We walked for about two hours. The landscape was densely beautiful. The sky was a soft rolling gray, deep and full of round shapes amid stretches of radiant blankness. Beneath us was a valley in which grew dark clumps of bushes and trees, pale grasses and deep patches of earth. We passed farmers with wooden plows drawn by oxen, turning up soil and chunks of stone so crystalline they gave light back to the sun. I wished that Thomas were there to see it all.
And then he was there. I was flooded with memories of our first meeting: I was twenty-four and he was fifty-two. People say that young women are attracted to older men because of social power. But my response was like strong weather—not chosen, not social. I was a graduate student and he was a visiting writer and a party was being held for him in the house of some faculty eminence. It was dull, and I went out into the yard to play with somebody’s dog, a chocolate-spotted terrier with a chewed-up ball that I threw until it landed in a pond with a skin of chartreuse scum. The dog and I were looking through the weeds at the water’s edge when the guest of honor appeared with a drink in his hand. “Did you lose something?” he asked. He wore an elegant suit and expensive shoes. He was ripe, confident, bursting with sex. “The dog’s ball,” I said. “It went in the water, I think.” And, still holding his drink, he walked into the water in his suit and his expensive shoes and got it for me.
I shifted my eyes. White seeped into the soft gray of the sky; the earth hummed through the waving hairs of its pale grasses, its bright leaves, the pores of its dark flesh. My body remembered the flesh of my husband’s arms, the warm intelligence of his chest, his willful, goatish belly.
I quickly dried my eyes. One of the teen-agers turned to us. Yonas said, “O.K., we’re here.”
He had brought us to a church that was built into a ravine. Looking at it was like looking down into a ruined palace, a system of courtyards, chambers, and antechambers that instead of being built into the air had been carved into the earth. There were steps down into it, but they were eroded and overgrown. Still, we made our way down slowly, crouching and clutching at bushes and vines that felt alive enough to close over our heads and swallow us whole, not like an animal but like an element.
Inside, the church seemed to have been carved so that it would appear nearly natural, an expression of the earth’s mind. In its decay it was covered with lichen, deep-colored moss, and small trees; it smelled like rock and humus. There were remnants of stone arches in the roof, thickly overgrown with clinging vines. Niches were cut into the walls, and in the niches were stone figures whose faces were worn away. There were stone benches, too, like pews. Further inside there was another short descent into a grotto, a chapel with a stream of water running through it like a vein of shining blood. The steps descending into the chapel were intact so the descent was not that difficult. Still, there was the sense that we might not be able to return. We reached the bottom and stood wordlessly absorbing a feeling of power that was embodied by earth but was bigger than earth. Again came the fear of being swallowed, but also a desire to be swallowed, as if by a lover. I clasped my hands and bent my head. Instead of prayer, a memory came to me, half-blotted in darkness; a memory of my cheek on the floor, my knees spread, my eyes closed, my body naked.
I loosed my hands and looked up. The memory passed, or became a memory of something else, someone else—someone I had not thought of for years, someone I had not really thought of at all. She was Thomas’s first wife, Frank and Elena’s mother; he had left her to be with me. I had never met her but I had seen her once, when Thomas and I were walking down the street in [REDACTED]. He took my arm abruptly and muttered her name under his breath. I looked and saw a small middle-aged woman in glasses looking fixedly ahead as she passed. I turned away, embarrassed. But now I saw her vividly. I saw her and felt her loneliness. On the street she had looked about fifty—the age I am now.
For two days, wherever we went no one was available to speak with us. Finally, we went back to the first place we had tried. This time the dying girl was not there—though I thought I could make out a shadow, perhaps an indentation or a soft mark, where she had lain. We knocked for a while and were about to go when the door was opened.
The head nun was a tall, erect woman with a still, cold face and fiery eyes, whose fire seemed to come from far away, far down in the hole of herself. We sat with her in her office and she told us the story of another woman who had come to do an independent adoption; the story took almost an hour to tell, and it ended with the woman leaving Addis Ababa to look elsewhere. As an afterthought, the nun added that, at present, she had no babies.
“But what about the girl who was outside the door a few days ago?” Katya asked. “She was obviously very sick and she had a beautiful baby and I was wondering if you took that baby in?”
The nun said that if the girl was sick she was probably with her family now. And then she made it clear that we were to leave.
Some version of this episode was repeated at several other orphanages. Finally, Katya went to the ministry that oversees adoptions, to meet with the man everyone referred to as “the Head”; we never found out what his actual title was. He suggested that we go to an orphanage on the outskirts of town, but when we got there we were told that they had no babies available, either. Just as the supervisor, or whatever she was, told us this, a baby began crying in the next room. 
Katya stood up, one hand on her hip, the other pointing toward the sound. “And what,” she demanded, “is that?”
“Obviously, that is a baby,” the woman said stiffly. “But as this baby has aids he is not up for adoption in [REDACTED].”
Katya sat back down; she put her head in her hands. “I’m sorry,” she said. “I don’t mean to be rude.”
The supervisor sighed and leaned back in her chair. She looked out the window for a long time. When she looked back, she said, “I should not tell you this, but I am going to tell you. The Head told us that you were coming. And he explicitly told us that we were not to do any independent adoptions. That’s it. No independent adoptions.”
Katya jumped up. “But he told us to come here!”
“If he has changed his mind,” the woman said, “then he needs to put it in writing. You need to get a letter from him stating that he gives permission. And I doubt he will give it to you.”
The next day Katya was sick with diarrhea and couldn’t eat anything but a banana. Still, we went to see the Head. Katya went in to meet him in his office; I stayed in the car with Yonas. He talked to me about the election; he said that the government had lied about the results in order to hold on to power and that people were going to fight about it. I asked him how he had learned to speak English so well. He said that he had studied it at the university and that driving had given him the chance to practice. He had studied for only a year even though he loved it; his brother and sister had children and he needed to help make money for them so that they could get the best education possible.
Katya came out and said, “What a prick!” She got in the car and slammed the door. “Sorry for my language, Yonas. The agencies must’ve gotten to him—that’s the only explanation. He said I don’t need a letter, so why should he write me a letter? I said, ‘How am I going to get a child?’ He said, ‘That’s your concern, not mine.’ ”
Yonas drove us back to the hotel. “I just don’t know what to do,” Katya said. “We can’t stay here forever. I don’t know what to do. God, I feel sick.” She took out her cell phone and began rifling through her purse.
“Who are you calling?” I asked.
“A guy named Kebede. Meselu gave me his number. He’s a sort of liaison between the hospital and orphanages in Arba Minch. I didn’t want to call because he’s in a whole other city. But I don’t know what else to try.”
Yonas muttered unhappily; we were suddenly floating in a flood of people and donkeys. Katya got Kebede on the phone. Music came from somewhere, lots of instruments blended energetically. I smiled; I remembered the first time that Thomas and I had had really good sex. Afterward, he’d put on some old pop music and danced in his underwear. He’d danced comically but also intently. The song played: I’ve got a hard-ass pair of shoulders. I’ve got a love you can’t imagine. Katya frowned into the phone, covering her other ear. “Really?” she said. “You know the Head?” Suddenly her voice was round and shining. Thomas danced; the car bucked forward; we rolled past a graveyard of white tombs and faceless angels standing guard over the dead. Katya hung up the phone. “He has a child,” she said. A love you can’t imagine. “A boy. Almost two. His mother dropped him off at the local hospital and hasn’t been back for six months. The hospital just gave the child to Kebede and he’s at Kebede’s house—he hasn’t gone into the orphanage yet, so the rules don’t apply to him. Kebede says to call back tomorrow.” She looked as if she’d been struck by lightning.
Two days later, we were on a plane to Arba Minch. The weather was turbulent and the small jet bobbed like an open boat on choppy water. Katya clutched her armrests. She was still too sick to eat, and her thinness made the taut, tense nature of her will more visible. I stood slightly and looked into the cockpit; the door was open and I could see the pilots. They were leaning back in their seats, laughing and talking as if they were sharing a very good joke.
I said, “The pilots look drunk.”
“Oh, sit down,” Katya said.
I sat down and looked out the window; the wing was vibrating ferociously. I began to sweat.
“I loved Thomas,” I said. “I loved him right up until the end.”
“I know,” Katya said. “I know you did.”
The plane dropped suddenly, then steadied, then rose above the clouds. The sun hit the wing with piercing brilliance.
“I loved him,” I said.
“Yes,” Katya said.
“But I was unfaithful.”
Katya turned to face me, her fear interrupted by her surprise.
“It was only once. One person, once. A student. Not even technically a student—he had just graduated.” I spoke rapidly.
“How did it happen?”
“He was someone I really disliked—rude in class, so arrogant it made him stupid. It was clear that he disliked me, too. I was glad to be getting rid of him. Then we saw each other at the graduation party and he came over to talk to me. I was surprised at first. Then I realized after about two minutes that it wasn’t exactly dislike he felt for me. And I didn’t dislike him, either. And I knew that Thomas wouldn’t be surprised if I came home late.”
“Was Thomas sick by then?”
It was a blow, but I could not be angry at her for striking it. “Yes,” I said, “but I didn’t know it yet. He had become very bad-tempered and strange—he was always starting fights and yelling at me, cursing at me, which he’d never done before. I was really mad at him. That partly explains why I did it, but not fully. I can’t explain it fully. I wanted sex and I wanted it to hurt. Not physically but . . .”
“I know,” Katya said. She said it quickly, as though to stop me from saying more.
I looked out the window. Below us was a forest of textured green, a still mass of depth and roughness, of mesmerizing sameness. I looked at it and my thoughts dissolved like foam on an ocean.
“I didn’t know that he was sick,” I said. “But I could tell that something was changing, that he was leaving me. The parts of Thomas that I knew were leaving.”
Katya put her hand on my arm and stroked it. Beneath us the forest fell away. We flew over bare ochre earth. I sat on the bed next to Thomas and tried to coax a spoonful of soup into his mouth. He wouldn’t take it. I closed my eyes. On one side of me was the dark image of my grief. On the other was bright sky, a rattling plastic window, and the torn edge of my seat cushion. How strange the contrast. How strange that I wished I could return to that moment of sitting on the bed, trying to get Thomas to take a spoonful of soup.
When we landed, Kebede was waiting for us in an old pickup truck. He was a small, fine-boned man with a high-bridged nose, unsmiling, his eyes quick and clear. He asked did we want to see the baby now, or go to the hotel first? Katya said, “ The baby, please.”
As we neared the town, the vegetation became more lush. We glimpsed a great blue body of water between the trees and rich greenery. We turned down a street of stone houses mostly hidden behind walls and gates.
Kebede’s house was small but elegantly constructed, of big smooth stones contrasting with a door deliberately made of rough wooden planks. His young daughter greeted us and led us into a long, narrow room. A woman in a vermillion dress emerged from a side room with a crying baby in her arms. “ This is [REDACTED], my wife,” Kebede said. Smiling, [REDACTED] handed the baby to Katya. The baby stopped crying. Cradling him, Katya looked at us, grinning as if she had given birth.
The baby was beautiful, fragile and small for almost two, with a severe mouth, a high forehead, almond-shaped eyes, and slightly pointed ears that made his gaze seem radically attuned. When you held him you felt the pure unprotected tenderness of an infant, but in those eyes there was also something uncanny and strong, nascent and vibrating with the desire to take form. He had come to the hospital half-starved, with pneumonia and parasites, and although he was now healthy he was still undernourished and weak.
[REDACTED] made us all a pasta dish with spicy onion purée, so spicy that I could barely eat it, so spicy that Katya didn’t dare eat it. I wouldn’t have expected even a robust baby to eat something so strong, but this baby ate it. He ate and conveyed with each bite, I intend to thrive. “Son,” Katya said. “Sonny. I’m going to name him Sonny.”
When we were done eating we took Sonny back to the hotel. [REDACTED] and her older daughter, an eleven-year-old in braids whose name was Mekdes, went with us. Mekdes was amazed at the hotel’s plumbing; she kept turning the water on and off. Katya was itching to buy baby food and clothes—what Sonny had on was filthy—so [REDACTED] made Mekdes calm down and instructed her to watch the baby while we went shopping.
“Can she do that?” Katya asked. “At her age?”
“Of course she can,” [REDACTED] said. “She’s cared for children younger than this.” 
The clothing store was a dark little hole stuffed with boxes of ridiculously ugly baby clothes from Eastern Europe; Katya loaded her arms with them. [REDACTED]’s phone rang and she turned her back to us to answer it. Smiling, Katya held up an orange corduroy jumper with a lavender collar. [REDACTED] turned to us. “Stop,” she said. “You have to stop. This is my husband. The mother just came back to the hospital. She is very angry. She wants her baby back.”
Kebede drove us to the hospital. [REDACTED] held Sonny; Katya didn’t want to. She had pulled into herself and become very contained. Kebede told us that the hospital staff were upset with the mother for showing up after leaving the child for so long.
“Why?” Katya said tonelessly. “It’s her right.”
“She’s a day laborer,” Kebede said. “She lives outdoors. She lives from hand to mouth. The hospital staff say she’s retarded. The baby will die with her.”
A crowd was gathered in front of the hospital, and they came forward to meet us when we got out of the car. They were all talking loudly, but my eyes went to the only silent person among them: a small, beaten-looking woman with long dirty hair and flat breasts hanging way down her body. She was dressed in filthy ragged clothes, and earrings had been torn from her ears. Her eyes were small and hot, and I could not read their expression. Her eyes went past me and fell on Katya. Katya steadily returned the look; I could not read her expression, either. [REDACTED] came forward and put the baby in his mother’s arms. Everyone fell silent. The mother glanced at [REDACTED], went toward Katya, and tried to hand the baby to her. Katya automatically reached for the baby, but before she could take him Kebede stepped in and took him. The baby screamed and reached for his mother. Looking meaningfully at the mother, Kebede gave the sobbing baby to a female hospital staffer. The staffer handed the child back to his mother. The mother took the child, walked around the staffer, and tried to approach Katya again. Everybody was yelling by then. Kebede moved in front of the mother, blocking her. The baby screamed. Katya hung her head and turned back to the car, both hands pressed against her chest.
It was over in less than five minutes. After the mother had walked away with the baby, [REDACTED] went to the car to comfort Katya. I was too stunned by the scene to leave it that quickly. Kebede stood awhile talking with the hospital people, but I could not understand what they were saying.
When we got back to the hotel, Katya lay down in bed. “This was a mistake,” she said. “An arrogant mistake. People told me that and they were right. I have been lazy and selfish all my life and I think I can just come and buy a kid, after living in a world that stole the ground out from under his parents and his grandparents and sucked the blood out of them and—”
I said, “Don’t start with that. You aren’t buying a kid. You’re not giving anyone money. Even as a metaphor it doesn’t work—[REDACTED] never sold slaves.”
“Don’t give me that shit. This isn’t an English class. You know there’s truth in what I say. And, anyway, I am sick of everything always being wrong. Every relationship I’ve ever had there’s been some reason it couldn’t work. Even with sex, half the time there’s something in the way—somebody is scared or married, or I touched him the wrong way or he said the wrong thing and it’s gone. And now this. Maybe I deserve it.”
“Katya,” I said, “that mother wants you to have her baby. I saw it. You saw it. Wait and see what happens.”
We lay in the darkness and heat and talked about the baby and the mother and how the mother had looked when she had seen Katya—we tried to understand what her expression had meant. Soon it was too hot to talk, too hot to think. Again and again we got up for water. Then we got up to piss and it came out scalding. The dark and heat became a private maze we wandered through, in and out of a delirium that passed as sleep. Far away I stood in front of a classroom, talking about a girl carrying her dead baby through a dark forest; I was lecturing on Chekhov’s “In the Ravine.” There were a dozen students in that class, but Kevin was the only one whose face I saw before me. He was right to despise me—I, who had no child, lecturing on this experience, as if I knew. I read aloud from the story something that a peasant said to the girl: “Yours is not the worst of sorrows.”
But it was. I had wanted him to hurt me, and he had. Or at least I thought he had. In fact, the real shock and pain came a few weeks later, along with something worse: Thomas’s Alzheimer’s was diagnosed. He was hurt, too, and I had done it to him. Or at least it felt as if I had.
Katya stirred and talked in her sleep. I felt a protective tenderness, a feeling that could not fill the emptiness but softened it. A single word came to me: “faith.” This is not a word I use often or hear used often, except lightly, ignorantly, or manipulatively. But there it was, standing singly in my head. This word has meaning, I thought. Whatever it has faithlessly been made to mean, it has actual meaning. But it was very little to hold on to.
In the morning, we went down to the dining room for breakfast. I ate fruit and a little plastic container of vanilla pudding; Katya had coffee and a piece of bread. There were some Italians talking about the election a few tables over; we heard them say something about getting out of the country. Then they glanced at us and fell silent. We took our coffee and went outside to the terrace. The air was warm, thriving and dense with the smell of earth and minerals. We sat quietly for a bit. A car went past, blaring pop music. Two boys walked by, driving two skinny cows, lustily slapping their bony haunches with whiplike branches.
Katya said, “Being here is like being in Biblical times and modern times at the same time. Like all times are happening at once, and people are just walking back and forth between them.”
Not walking, I thought—falling.
Katya’s cell phone rang in her lap. Irritated, she picked it up and listened; her attention went taut like a bow. She dropped the phone and shouted, “The mother brought the baby back!” Then she grabbed the phone again. It was Kebede. The mother had slept outside the hospital all night with the baby. She wanted to put him up for adoption, and she wanted Katya to have him.
It took a few days for the mother to do the paperwork, but we got Sonny right away. We went back to the store of ugly clothes and bought a little suitcaseful. We bathed Sonny and dressed him. But he would not stop screaming. It seemed to Katya that the baby screamed most when she tried to hold him. [REDACTED] came to help us. She brought more of the spicy pasta dish that Sonny had devoured on the day we met him, but he refused it with a frown that was deep and imperial. He refused to eat at all. “Maybe he wants to go back to his mother,” Katya said. “Do you think that’s what he’s saying?”
“Nonsense,” [REDACTED] said. “Don’t even think it. They were sleeping outside during malaria season. Do you know what that means? The baby is already weak. If he stayed with that woman he would die.”
“And, besides, he’s bossy like you,” I said. “Did you see the frown on him?”
And so we came before the judge. We took Sonny back to Addis Ababa. He screamed the whole flight. But Katya was unfazed; the strength of her doubt was now transformed and was feeding her determination. Exhausted but almost mechanically activated, we were carried forward on a current of will that we had initiated, but which had become a force of its own.
Yonas met us at the airport and took us to a bed-and-breakfast exclusively for people who were in Addis to adopt, a compound with barbed wire and shards of glass atop its high walls. 
Because Sonny tended to get carsick, I stayed at the B. and B. with him while Yonas drove Katya around the city getting letters to prove who she was and who Sonny was, translations of these letters into English or Amharic, and a birth certificate, a passport, and a visa for Sonny. Katya mounted a daily assault on the Head, from whom she needed to get a letter of approval for an orphanage to sponsor the adoption. Each of these tasks was, of course, impossible. When I tell the story to people, I make it sound as if Katya flowed through the city, coursing around the obstacles in her path with the smooth determination of water. But she was not water and she came home bruised and furious from bumping her head against every damn thing.
My time alone was dreamlike and lullingly dull, the surreal darkness of grief blended with the bright reality of caring for a malnourished child. Sonny’s movements were weak, uncoördinated. He couldn’t walk more than a few steps and his gaze was intense but not quite focussed, as if he were in a mild psychic fever. He just wanted to be carried around the house, out into the yard and back, again and again.
The first day I carried him until I couldn’t take any more, then I lay on the floor and rolled back and forth with him, as he clung to me weakly, but with a hint of triumph in his raised head. I rocked him and crooned to him and dreamed of Thomas: of rocking him and crooning, of being rocked by him. Of straddling my husband and kissing him, bending to brush my breasts against him; of straddling him and struggling to reposition him on the bed, him cursing me with strange half-words because he could no longer move himself. 

Sonny put his hand on my face and it came away wet. I kissed his tiny palm and held it. Thomas lost motor control and could get into bed only by moving into a sitting position over it and then letting himself flop backward. I had to allow him to do it that way—it was important for him to do what he could. But then I had to reposition him, because if I left him as he fell, he woke in pain. It made Thomas furious to be straddled and repositioned. Yet I treasured his fury, as a vestige of his pride, treasured the fact that it could still trigger anger in me, make me feel like a normal wife again with a strong husband to quarrel with. I gave Sonny my finger; he squeezed it and I rolled into a seated position, cradling him.
Friends ask me when I suspected that something was wrong with Thomas. I don’t know how to answer. There were indications, most of them disguised as age and its eccentricities. But at least once the disease paraded itself garishly before me. Four years before the Alzheimer’s was diagnosed, we went to 537061696e for three weeks. We arrived home in the evening, left our bags in the front hall, and went to bed. The next morning I found him sitting in the kitchen, visibly afraid. He had no memory of our trip, yet he realized when he saw our bags in the hall that we had been somewhere. I made breakfast; I described for him everything we had done on the trip. He said that he remembered, and I made myself forget it. And, because nothing quite like that happened again, I could.
After a few days, Sonny began to eat in earnest—mashed bananas, cereal, formula, pasta, all of it. He built pyramids of empty film containers and prescription bottles, and then knocked them down. He unscrewed and screwed the top on the milk bottle over and over. He discovered that he wanted to walk and then—as if a bomb had gone off in his brain—he discovered that he could try to walk up and down the stairs. I passed through a sad and enchanted mirror: I walked Sonny as I had walked Thomas, facing him, his hands in mine, giving him a footstep pattern to follow, holding his eyes with encouragement. Everything depended on the slow placement of his blunt feet, finding it, trusting it, finding it again.
Everything depended on it: I pulled my husband out of bed to a standing position and led him backward, holding his hands. I smiled at him and he smiled at me. I got him on the john, waited for him to finish, and wiped him. I bathed him in the marble shower, which was so big it made the whole room a shower where we could be naked together. We sat on the fancy marble floor and played, passing the hose back and forth, spraying, laughing. . . . And Sonny, with his little forehead blazing, several times nearly falling, climbed the stairs. His hands radiated into my hands, imparting his being and sampling mine. “Look,” I said aloud. Look, my husband, my father, my lover, my child: look at this little boy and bless him.
When Katya came home she would jealously take the baby from me—of course, jealously. Every day she walked in and saw me having intimacy that she couldn’t have because she was out doing the shit. What she didn’t see was that it didn’t matter. Sonny knew that Katya was his mother and that I was his nurse; we hadn’t imagined that uncanny gleam in his eyes.
On our seventh day in Addis, Katya succeeded; she came back with a letter from the Head and a letter from an orphanage (run by a friend of the Head) that said it would sponsor the adoption. Out of fighting mode, she was dazed and unsure of how this had happened. “We were going at it as usual,” she said. “I told him I would be back in his office every day until I got permission and he said, ‘Fine.’ And then a stomach cramp doubled me over; my head went between my legs, my teeth were gritted, and my intestines made this indescribable sound—I thought I was going to have diarrhea right there. The only reason I didn’t leave was that I was worried about what might happen if I got up suddenly. He didn’t say anything. He just looked at me—almost like he felt sorry for me! Then he got a piece of paper and wrote the letter and pushed it across the desk.”
That night we finally went out for dinner. We wore the dresses we had brought to celebrate in; Sonny wore his orange jumper. I chose an Italian restaurant we’d walked past several times because the people in it always looked lively. But it wasn’t lively this night. On the way there the streets were nearly empty, and the few people out seemed angry and tense. We were the only customers in the restaurant. Katya didn’t feel well enough to eat more than a few bites of pasta and she was too tired to talk much.
The next day Katya and Sonny went to the 556e6974656420537461746573n Embassy in the morning and returned early in the afternoon. Sonny was tired and cranky, so Katya wanted to rest before going to the travel agency to arrange our flight out. They napped together while I went to the laundry room and washed our clothes. While I was in the dining area waiting for the clothes to come out of the washer I met the mother of our host, a neurasthenic Italian fellow who had written several unpublished books. She was feeding her pug dog sliced fruit from a dish in her lap. I told her we were about to leave. “I hope you can get out,” she said. “You chose a terrible time to come. You didn’t know about the election?” I pointed out that she was here. She shrugged and meticulously peeled the skin off a fig. “I spent my childhood here,” she said. “I know the place. You don’t.”
I woke Katya and we tried to call Yonas. We couldn’t reach him. This was unusual. We waited an hour and tried again; nothing. We waited another hour. We heard the huge gate open; people came in talking loudly. Someone ran up the stairs, past our door. Katya and I stared at each other. Sonny stirred. It wasn’t right then that we heard gunfire, but maybe ten minutes later. Not close by. But close enough to hear. Off and on, during the afternoon and into the night.
Much closer than the gunshots was the buzzing machine of my body. The buzzing came from inside me and also enclosed me like the darkness and the warmth of the night. It said, It doesn’t matter if you die here. It might be better if you died here. But Katya and Sonny have to get home. It won’t be better if they die.
The next day, Yonas came in his uncle’s car instead of his taxi. We saw him pull in to the driveway, and we ran out to meet him. From the car, he held up a hand to indicate that he was talking on the phone. We stopped; he had never signalled for us to wait before, and this signal scared me more than anything so far. But he didn’t keep us waiting long. He put the phone down and got out to tell us: There had been a demonstration about the election. Twenty-five people had been killed. He could not take us anywhere. He would be in touch. He had to get home as quickly as he could.
We played with Sonny all day, both of us, going up and down the stairs. When we heard shots, we looked up and then went back to what we were doing. The buzzing said, Your parents are dead. Your husband is dead. You should be dead. But Katya and Sonny don’t deserve to die.
In the early evening, Katya said, “We have to get something to eat.”
“We can’t go out,” I said. “It isn’t safe.”
“Sonny is out of food. He hasn’t eaten for eight hours.”
“Katya, nothing is open. You heard Yonas.”
“The fruit stand will be open. There’s no way they’ll close. They’re just down the street.”
“We’re hearing guns.”
“The shots aren’t close. I have to go out. If you won’t go, I’ll go alone.”
We took Sonny; I carried him, because Katya was too weak. Outside on the street people and animals were walking around normally. Who were these people? I felt half-scared of them, half-linked with them, and didn’t know which feeling was most real. I reached inside my shirt and held the rings for a moment in my cupped hand. Thomas’s face, flat and beautifully misshapen, rippled in me like a reflection in water. There was a boy at my side, trying to push a cow out of the way. Thomas’s face stretched unrecognizably on the moving water. The boy came suddenly around the cow and tore my chain off my neck. I screamed; the boy flashed down the street. I was after him. My legs are long and I almost had him but couldn’t grab him, because Sonny was screaming, forgotten, in my arms. I darted back to Katya, who was standing motionless, and thrust Sonny at her. The boy was a quick pixilation of limbs, disappearing. Katya shouted, “Janice!” and I ran. The boy was a bright movement that I chased like a creature with a single instinct. I turned a corner, stumbled into a pothole full of warm brown water, and nearly fell. I staggered and bent to catch myself with my hands. I looked up; he was gone. I whipped my head around, looking, my instinct trying to leap in every direction—but it had nothing to leap at. I panted heavily, sweat running into my eyes. Ragged women holding children stared at me. Faces peered from the broken hole of a window. Skeletal dogs, fierce and cringing, watched with starving eyes. My instinct felt them all as it felt itself: quick force in slow mammal bodies; soft brain in hard bone; a machine of thoughts; a machine of sex; the dark radiance of emotions; the personality; eyes, nose, mouth. A little boy with a large round head pointed at me and said words I couldn’t understand. My instinct broke; everything that had been joined was now in pieces again. I put my face in my hands and cried like an animal.
I came out of the alley to find my way back to Katya. I tried to stop making noise. I couldn’t. I felt people following me. I understood. The current had reversed. As I had chased the boy, they would follow me. They would kill me. I heard myself sobbing. Thomas was dead. I had let him die. They would kill me. It was right. 

“Miss? Miss?” A small voice was at my side, gently tugging me without touching me. “Miss? What’s wrong, Miss?”
I looked at the voice. There were two young girls, maybe thirteen years old, at my side. They were dressed in school uniforms. Their faces were soft but intensely focussed in the nose and eyes. I wiped my face; I glanced behind me. There was a small crowd there, made up mostly of teen-age girls and a few boys with curious faces. I turned to look at them. “My husband died,” I said. “He died and somebody stole our wedding rings. Now I don’t have anything.” Tears ran down my face, human tears now. “I have to find my friend and her baby. Thank you.”
The girls nodded gravely. I continued to walk. One girl followed me. “It will be all right,” she said. “God will help you.”
I said, “Thank you, honey.” Machine-gun fire sounded in the distance. The girl dropped away.
“Janice!” It was Katya, rounding a corner, Sonny in her arms. She said, “What happened? Why did you do that?”
“I was robbed. That boy took my wedding rings. I couldn’t catch him.”
“Then we need to call the police.”
If she hadn’t been holding Sonny I would’ve slapped her. “Do you know how stupid you sound?” I said. “ ‘Call the police’?”
“Janice—”
“Look around you!” I was trembling, still dripping tears with no force. “They’re in the middle of a war and you think the police are going to come because of my rings?”
“Janice—”
“Shut up!”
I turned to get away, to go back to the B. and B.
“Stop.” Someone touched my arm from behind; I turned. A very small old man stood before me.
“What?” I asked, or thought.
“Stop,” he said. “Don’t cry. Please. It’s O.K.” He said “please,” but his eyes had an expression of command. I lifted my hand to wipe my eyes. He reached out and took it. He held it palm up; he put my rings in my hand and closed my fingers over them. “O.K.?” he said.
“But how—?”
He shook his head and said, “Just don’t cry. O.K.?”
I stopped crying. He turned to go.
“Wait,” I said. “There was a chain, too?”
He turned his head and looked hard at me.
“The rings were on a chain. Do you know about that?”
He shook his head and walked away.
Years later, I told this story at a party at the university. I told it to a woman who had travelled extensively in Africa. She was a big woman, very grand, with a high chest and a chunky necklace made of precious stones. When I told her how I had lost my rings and how the old man had given them back she made a face. She said, “Really, you make too big a fuss of yourself. You should not go to Africa and then make such a fuss.” I answered her vaguely. I let myself be chastised. Because in that room she was right. In that room I was a privileged and foolish woman running around bawling about rings while a whole city fell apart and people were killed.
But I didn’t meet the old man in that room. I met him in a place of Biblical times and modern times, where people walked back and forth between times, all times. In this place I walked back and forth between the time of the living and the time of the dead. In the middle of my walking, war broke out, and the path between the living and the dead opened up and everything dear to me fell down the crack. I fell, too, and I might have fallen forever—but the old man said, “Stop.” And I stopped.
That same night at the university, another person asked, “Did you thank him?” And I was amazed to realize that I didn’t know. Probably I did not. How could I? Thanking him would have been like thanking an angel.
I sit in my darkened house sometimes, holding a glass of wine, and I thank him.
The next day, we rode through the streets crouched on the floor of the car that Yonas had borrowed from his uncle. We went to the 556e6974656420537461746573n Embassy, sharing the car with five 457468696f706961ns, women and girls whom Yonas was taking “to safety.” He didn’t dare drive his cab lest protesters turn it over and burn it. But there were no taxis in the street, no cars, no people. There were huge high trucks full of soldiers in camouflage with automatic weapons. Still, the 457468696f706961n women sat on the seat and we crouched on the floor, hiding the whiteness that declared us paying customers. One of the women, a girl really, held Sonny against her breast. A military truck passed close by, bristling with guns. The girl holding our baby looked at me with wide, frightened eyes. Katya pressed her forehead to the sweat-drenched seat and reached up to clasp Sonny’s foot as though it were a hand.
Outside, the Embassy was surrounded by guards with machine guns; inside, it was jammed with frightened people and with officials behind windows. We took a number and waited. Waiting next to us was an 556e6974656420537461746573n doctor who had been on emergency-room duty when gunshot victims began to come in. He was calm, over-calm, but he smelled like fear, and when he got up to one of the windows he began talking loud and fast, telling someone, really everyone, that there had been many killings, many more than the reported twenty-five. The whole room smelled of fear. Something was missing from Sonny’s file, and Katya was shouting at someone, her jaw moving like cheap animation on her stark, chalk-white face, her body giving off an odor that was nearly savage, the scent of someone ready to attack. She turned to me suddenly, and I flinched.
“I’ve got to go,” she said. “I’ll be back.” She was already dialling Yonas on her cell. I went to take Sonny from her, but the child refused; he hadn’t let me hold him since I’d handed him off and run down the middle of the street and come back howling in pain. So I just held his hand and walked out to the hall with him. Thomas walked out of the sun-shadowy water, stepping on his elegant pants, damp and sagging, his shoes squishy wet. He smiled as he handed me the dog’s chewed-up ball, the dog, standing on its hind legs, dancing. With an ecstatic face, Sonny took the stairs two at a time. He looked up at me, gurgling with pleasure, his forehead shining with effort. I stroked his hair. I thought of his mother’s beaten face, her torn ears, her breasts hanging down. The child grabbed my hem with his tiny fist. Katya came back beaming, papers in her hand, her sweat rank and innocent.
That night, I dreamed that Katya and I were in a small, dark house of mud and thatch. Thomas was there, too, asleep on a dirty mat, and so was Sonny’s mother, who was terribly sick. Katya kept trying to nurse the mother, to suckle her at her breast, but the woman couldn’t hold her head up, and I kept wanting to say, Stop, it’s ridiculous, she’s the mother. But I was distracted by Thomas’s mother in the next room, laughing as she played with Sonny; I was distracted, too, by gunfire, which came closer and closer. . . .
I woke in the dark with my heart pounding; I reached for my wedding rings on the table beside me.
“Katya,” I whispered, only half-expecting her to be awake, too.
She replied unintelligibly.
“When Sonny gets older, and he asks you about his mother, what are you going to tell him?”
She didn’t answer. Shortly, she began to snore.
But the next day, when we were at the airport, she answered. She said, “If he asks, I’ll tell him that his mother was a great woman. That she was a fighter, and because she had to fight so hard she gave me her most precious child to keep him safe. Something like that. Here.” Without thinking, she handed me the baby. I stiffened, expecting Sonny to protest. But he didn’t; he reached for me and let me hold him. Katya bent to pick up her bag. I thrive, his body said to mine. I will thrive. I put my hand on the back of his head and held it to my shoulder, my cheek against his hair. It was time to go. 

