THEM OLD COWBOY SONGS
Travails of a homesteading couple.
By Annie Proulx

ARCHIE AND ROSE, 1885
[REDACTED] and Rose McLaverty staked out a homestead where the Little Weed comes rattling down from the Sierra Madre, water named not for miniature obnoxious flora but for P. H. Weed, a gold-seeker who had starved near its source. [REDACTED] had a face as smooth as a skinned aspen, his lips barely incised on the surface, as though scratched in with a knife. All his natural decoration was in his red cheeks and his springy waves of auburn hair, which seemed charged with voltage. He lied about his age to anyone who asked—he was not twenty-one but sixteen. The first summer, they lived in a tent while [REDACTED] worked on a small cabin. It took him a month of rounding up stray cows for Bunk Peck before he could afford two glass windows. The cabin was snug, built with eight-foot squared-off logs tenoned on the ends and dropped into mortised uprights, a size [REDACTED] could handle himself, with a little help from their only neighbor, Tom Ackler, a sun-dried prospector with a summer shack up on the mountain. They chinked the cabin with heavy yellow clay. One day, [REDACTED] dragged a huge flat stone to the house for a doorstep. It was pleasant to sit in the cool of the evening with their feet on the great stone and watch the deer come down to drink and, just before darkness, see the herons flying upstream, their color matching the sky so closely they might have been eyes of wind. [REDACTED] dug into the side of the hill and built a stout meat house, sawed wood while Rose split kindling until they had four cords stacked high against the cabin, almost to the eaves, the pile immediately tenanted by a weasel.
“He’ll keep the mice down,” Rose said.
“Yeah, if the bastard don’t bite somebody,” [REDACTED] said, flexing his right forefinger. A faint brogue flavored his sentences, for he had been conceived in Ireland and born, in 1868, in Dakota Territory, of parents arrived from Bantry Bay, his father to spike ties for the Union Pacific Railroad. His mother’s death from cholera when he was seven was followed a few weeks later by that of his father, who had guzzled an entire bottle of strychnine-laced patent medicine that was guaranteed to ward off cholera and measles if taken in teaspoon quantities. Before [REDACTED]’s mother died, she had taught him dozens of old songs and the rudiments of music structure by painting a plank with black and white piano keys, sitting him before it, and encouraging him to touch the keys with the correct fingers. The family wipeout removed the Irish influence. Mrs. Sarah Peck, a warmhearted Missouri Methodist widow, raised the young orphan, to the great resentment of her son, Bunk.
A parade of saddle bums drifted through the Peck bunkhouse, and from an early age [REDACTED] listened to the songs they sang. He was a quick study for a tune, and had a memory for rhymes, verses, and intonations. When Mrs. Peck died, caught in a grass conflagration she had started while singeing slaughtered chickens, [REDACTED] was fourteen and Bunk in his early twenties. Without Mrs. Peck as a buffer, the relationship became one of hired hand and boss. There had never been any sense of kinship, fictive or otherwise, between them, and Bunk Peck fumed over the hundred dollars his mother had left [REDACTED] in her will.
[REDACTED] McLaverty had a singing voice that once heard was never forgotten. It was a straight, hard voice, the words falling out halfway between a shout and a song. Sad and flat and without ornamentation, it expressed things that were unsayable. He sang plain and square-cut, “Brandy’s brandy, any way you mix it, a Texian’s a Texian any way you fix it,” and the listeners laughed at the droll way he rolled out “fix it,” the words surely meaning castration. He could sing every song—“Go ’Long Blue Dog,” and “When the Green Grass Comes,” “Don’t Pull Off My Boots,” and “Two Quarts of Whiskey,” and at all-male roundup nights he had endless verses of “The Stinkin Cow,” “The Buckskin Shirt,” and “Cousin Harry.” He courted Rose by singing, “Never marry no good-for-nothin boy,” it being understood that the boy was himself, the “good-for-nothin” a disclaimer. Later, with winks and innuendo, he sang, “Little girl, for safety you better get branded.”
[REDACTED], advised by an ex-homesteader working for Bunk Peck, used his inheritance from Mrs. Peck to buy eighty acres of private land. It would have cost nothing if he had filed for a homestead twice that size on public land, or eight times larger on desert land, but [REDACTED] feared the government would discover he was a minor. Since he had never expected anything from Mrs. Peck, buying the land with the surprise legacy seemed like getting it for free. [REDACTED], thrilled to be a landowner, told Rose he had to sing the metes and bounds. He started on the southwest corner early one morning and headed east. Rose walked along with him at the beginning and even tried to sing with him but got out of breath from walking so fast and singing at the same time. Nor did she know the words to many of his songs. [REDACTED] kept going. Late in the afternoon, he was on the west line, drawing near and still singing, though his voice was raspy, “an we’ll go downtown, an we’ll buy some shirts . . .,” and slouching down the slope the last hundred feet in the evening dusk so worn of voice she could only just hear him breathily chant “never had a nickel and I don’t give a shit.”
There is no happiness like that of a young couple in a little house they have built themselves in a place of beauty and solitude. [REDACTED] had hammered together a table with sapling legs and two benches. At the evening meal, their faces lit by the yellow shine of the coal-oil lamp whose light threw wild shadows on the ceiling, their world seemed in order.
Rose was not pretty, but warmhearted and quick to laugh. She had grown up at the Jackrabbit stage station, the daughter of kettle-bellied Sundown Mealor, who dreamed of plunging steeds but because of his bottle habit drove a freight wagon. The station was on a north-south trail that connected hardscrabble ranches with the blowout railroad town of Rawlins after the Union Pacific line went through. Rose’s mother was gray with some wasting disease that kept her to her bed, sinking slowly out of life. She wept over Rose’s early marriage at barely fourteen but gave her a family treasure, a large silver spoon that had come across the Atlantic.
The stationmaster was Robert F. Dorgan, affable and jowly, yearning to be appointed to a position of importance and seeing the station as a brief stop not only for freight wagons but for himself. His second wife, Flora, stepmother to his daughter Queeda, went to [REDACTED] every winter with Queeda, and so they became authorities on fashion and style. They were as close as a natural mother and daughter. In [REDACTED], Mrs. Dorgan sought out important people who could help her husband climb to success. Many political men spent the winter in [REDACTED], and one of them, Rufus Clatter, with connections to [REDACTED], hinted that there was a chance for Dorgan to be appointed as the territory’s surveyor.
“I’m sure he knows a good deal about surveying,” he said with a wink.
“Considerable,” she said, thinking that Dorgan could find some stripling surveyor to do the work for a few dollars.
“I’ll see what I can do,” Clatter said, pressing heavily against her thigh, but tensed to step away if she took offense. She allowed him a few seconds, smiled, and turned away.
Back at the station in the spring, where her rings and metallic dress trim cast a golden aura, she bossed the local society and gossip, saying that [REDACTED] McLaverty had ruined Rose, precipitating their youthful marriage, but what could you expect from a girl with a drunkard father, an uncontrolled girl who’d had the run of the station, sassing rough drivers and exchanging low repartee with bumpkin cowhands, among them [REDACTED] McLaverty, a lowlife who sang vulgar songs? She whisked her hands together as though ridding them of filth.
The other inhabitant of the station was an old bachelor (the country was rich in bachelors), Harp Daft, the telegraph key operator. His face and neck formed a visor of scars, moles, wens, boils, and acne. One leg was shorter than the other, and his voice twanged with catarrh. His window faced the Dorgan house, and a black circle that Rose knew to be a telescope sometimes showed in it.
Rose both admired and despised Queeda Dorgan. She greedily took in every detail of the beautiful dresses, the fire-opal brooch, satin shoes, and saucy hats so exquisitely out of place at the dusty station, but she knew that Miss Dainty had to wash out her bloody menstrual rags like every woman, although she tried to hide them by hanging them on the line at night or inside pillow slips. Beneath the silk skirts, she, too, had to put up with sopping pads torn from old sheets, the crusted edges chafing her thighs and pulling at her pubic hairs. At those times of the month, the animal smell seeped through Queeda’s perfumed defenses.
Rose saw Mrs. Dorgan as an iron-boned, two-faced enemy, her public sweetness offset by private coarseness. She had seen the woman spit on the ground like a drover, had seen her scratch her crotch on the corner of the table when she thought no one was looking. Believing that she was a superior creature, Mrs. Dorgan never spoke to the Mealors, nor to the despicable bachelor pawing his telegraph key, or, as he said, seeking out constellations.
Every morning in the little cabin, Rose braided her straight brown hair, dabbed it with drops of lilac water from the blue bottle [REDACTED] had presented her on the day of their wedding, and wound it around her head in a coronet, the way Queeda Dorgan bound up her hair. She did not want to become like a homestead woman, with skunky armpits and greasy hair yanked into a bun. She hoped that their children would get [REDACTED]’s auburn waves and his red-cheeked, handsome face. She trimmed his hair with a pair of embroidery scissors dropped in the dust by some lady stagecoach passenger at the station years before. But it was hard, keeping clean. Queeda Dorgan had little to do at the station except primp and flounce, but Rose, in her cabin, lifted heavy kettles, split kindling, baked bread, scrubbed pots, and hacked the stone-filled ground for a garden, and hauled water when [REDACTED] was not there. They were lucky their first winter that the river did not freeze. Her personal wash and the dishes and the floor took four daily buckets of water lugged up from the Little Weed, each trip disturbing the ducks who favored the nearby setback for their business meetings. She tried to keep [REDACTED] clean as well. He rode in from days of chasing Peck’s cows or running wild horses on the desert with a stubbled face, mosquito-bitten neck and grimed hands, cut, cracked nails, and stinking feet. She pulled off his boots and washed his feet in the dishpan, patting them dry with a clean feed-sack towel.
“If you had stockins, it wouldn’t be so bad,” she said. “If I could get me some knittin needles and yarn I could make stockins.”
“Mrs. Peck made some. Once. Took about a hour before they was holed. No point to it, and they clamber around in your boots. Hell with stockins.”
Supper was venison hash or a platter of fried sage hen she had shot, but not beans, which [REDACTED] said had been and still were the main provender at Peck’s. Occasionally their neighbor Tom Ackler rode down for supper, sometimes with his yellow cat, Gold Dust, riding behind him on the saddle. While Tom talked, Gold Dust set to work to claw the weasel out of the woodpile. Rose liked the black-eyed, balding prospector and asked him about the gold earring in his left ear.
“Used a sail the world, girlie. That’s my port ear and that ring tells them as knows that I been east round Cape Horn. And if you been east, you been west first. Been all over the world.” He had a rich collection of stories of storms, violent williwaws, and southerly busters, of waterspouts and whales leaping like trout, icebergs and doldrums and enmeshing seaweed, of wild times in distant ports.
“How come you to leave the sailor-boy life?” Rose asked.
“No way to get rich, girlie. And this fella wanted a snug harbor after the pitchin deck.”
[REDACTED] asked about maritime songs, and the next visit Tom Ackler brought his concertina with him, and for hours sea chanteys and sailors’ verses filled the cabin, [REDACTED] asking for a repeat of some and often chiming in after a single hearing.
They say old man your horse will die.
And they say so, and they hope so.
O poor old man your horse will die.
O poor old man.
Rose was an eager lover when [REDACTED] called, “Put your ass up like a whip-poor-will,” and an expert at shifting his occasional glum moods into pleased laughter. She seemed unaware that she lived in a time when love killed women. One summer evening, their bedspread on the floor among the chips and splinters in the half-finished cabin, they fell to kissing. Rose, in some kind of transport, began to bite her kisses, sharp nips along his neck, his shoulder, in the musky crevice between his arm and torso, his nipples, until she felt him shaking and looked up to see his eyes closed, tears in his lashes, face contorted in a grimace.
“Oh, [REDACTED], I didn’t mean to hurt, [REDACTED]—”
“You did not,” he groaned. “It’s. I ain’t never been. Loved. I just can’t hardly stand it—” And he began to blubber “Feel like I been shot,” pulling her into his arms, rolling half over so that the salty tears and his saliva wet her embroidered shirtwaist, calling her his little birdeen, and at that moment she would have walked into a furnace for him.
On the days he was away she would hack at the garden. She shot a hawk that was after her three laying hens, plucked and cleaned it, and threw it in the soup pot with a handful of wild onions and some pepper. Another day she gathered two quarts of wild strawberries, her fingers stained a deep red that would not wash away.
“Look like you killed and skinned a griz bear by hand,” he said. “It could be a bear might come down for his berries, so don’t you go pickin no more.”
The second winter came on and Bunk Peck laid off all the men, including [REDACTED]. Cowhands rode the circuit, moving from ranch to ranch, doing odd jobs in return for a place in the bunkhouse and three squares. Down on the Little Weed, [REDACTED] and Rose were ready for the cold. He had waited for good tracking snow and shot two elk and two deer in November when the weather chilled, swapping a share of the meat with Tom Ackler for his help, for it could take a lone man several days to pack a big elk out, with bears, lions, and wolves, coyotes, ravens, and eagles gorging as much of the unattended carcass as they could. The meat house was full. They had a barrel of flour and enough baking powder and sugar for the city of [REDACTED]. Some mornings the wind stirred the snow into a scrim that bleached the mountains and made opaline dawn skies. Once the sun below the horizon threw savage red onto the bottom of the cloud that hung over Barrel Mountain, and [REDACTED] glanced up and saw Rose in the doorway burning an unearthly color in the lurid glow.
By spring, both of them were tired of elk and venison, tired of bumping into each other in the little cabin. Rose was pregnant. Her vitality seemed to have ebbed away, her good humor with it. [REDACTED] carried her water buckets from the river and swore he would dig a well the coming summer. It was hot in the cabin, the April sun like an oven door ajar.
“You better get somebody knows about well diggin,” she said sourly, slapping the bowls on the table for the everlasting elk stew, nothing more than meat, water, and salt, simmered to chewability, then reheated for days. “Remember how Mr. Town got killed when his well caved in and him in it?”
“A well can damn cave in and I won’t be in it,” he said. “I got in mind not diggin a deep killin well but clearin out that little seep east a the meat house. Could make a good spring, and I’d build a springhouse, put up some shelves, and maybe git a cow. Butter-and-cream cow. Hell, I’m goin a dig out that spring today.” He was short but muscular, and his shoulders had broadened, his chest filled out with the work. He started to sing, “Got to bring along my shovel if I got to dig a spring,” ending with one of Tom’s yo-heave-hos, but his jokey song did not soothe her irritation. An older woman would have seen that, although they were little more than children, they were shifting out of the days of clutching love and into the long haul of married life.
“Cows cost money, specially butter-and-cream cows. We ain’t got enough for a butter dish even. And I’d need a churn. Long as we are dreamin, might as well dream a pig, too, give the skim and have the pork in the fall. Sick a deer meat. It’s too bad you spent all your money on this land. Should a saved some out.”
“Still think it was the right way to do, but we sure need some chink. I’m ridin to talk with Bunk in a few days, see can I get hired on again.” He pulled on his dirty digging pants, still spattered with mud from the three-day job of the privy pit. “Don’t git me no dinner. I’ll dig until noon and come in for coffee. We got coffee yet?”
Bunk Peck took pleasure in saying there was no job for him. Nor was there anything at the other ranches. Eight or ten [REDACTED] cowhands left over from last fall’s [REDACTED] drive had stayed in the country and taken all the work.
He tried to make a joke out of it for Rose, but the way he breathed through his teeth showed it wasn’t funny. After a few minutes she said in a low voice, “At the station they used a say they pay a hunderd a month up in Butte.”
“Missus McLaverty, I wouldn’t work in no mine. You married you a cowboy.” And he sang, “I’m just a lonesome cowboy who loves a gal named Rose, I don’t care if my hat gets wet or if I freeze my toes, but I won’t work no copper mine, so put that up your nose.” He picked a piece of turnip from the frying pan on the stove and ate it. “I’ll ride over Cheyenne way an see what I can find. There’s some big ranches over there and they probly need hands. Stop by Tom’s place on my way an ask him to look in on you.”
Despite the strong April sun, there was still deep snow under the lodgepoles and in the north hollows around Tom Ackler’s cabin; the place had a deserted feeling to it, something more than if Tom had gone off for the day. His cat, Gold Dust, came purring up onto the steps, but when [REDACTED] tried to pet her she tore his hand and with flattened ears raced into the pines. Inside the cabin he found the stub of a pencil and wrote a note on the edge of an old newspaper, and left it on the table.
Tom I looking for werk arond Shyanne.
Check on Rose now & than, ok?
KAROK’S COWS
In a saloon on a Cheyenne street packed with whiskey mills and gambling snaps, he heard that a rancher up on Rawhide Creek was looking for spring roundup hands. The whiskey bottles glittered as the swinging doors let in planks of light—Kellogg’s Old Bourbon, Squirrel, Great Gun, G. G. Booz, Day Dream. He bought his informant a drink. The thing was, the man said, a big-mustached smiler showing rotten nutcrackers, putting on the sideboards by wrapping his thumb and forefinger around the shot glass to gain another inch of fullness, that although Karok paid well and he didn’t hardly lay off men in the fall, he would not hire married men, because they had the bad habit of running off home to see wife and kiddies while Karok’s cows fell in mud holes, were victimized by mountain lions and rustlers, drifted down the draw, and suffered the hundred other ills that could befall untended cattle. The bartender, half listening, sucked a draught of Wheatley’s Spanish Pain Destroyer from a small bottle near the cash register.
“Stomach,” he said to no one, belching.
Big Mustache knocked back his brimming shot of Squirrel and went on. “He’s a foreigner from back [REDACTED], and the only thing counts to him is cows. He learned that fast when he come here back in the early days, cows is the only thing. Grub’s pretty poor, too. There ain’t no chicken in the chicken soup.”
“Yeah, and no horse in the horseradish,” said [REDACTED], who’d heard all the feeble bunkhouse jokes.
“Huh. Well, he rubs some the wrong way. Most a them quit. What I done. Some law dog come out there once with his hand hoverin over his shooter, and I could see he was itchin to dabble in gore. I felt like it was a awful good place a put behind me. But there’s a few like Karok’s ways. Maybe you are one a them. Men rides for him gets plenty practice night ropin. See, his herd grows like a son of a bitch, if you take my meanin. But I’ll give you some advice: one a these days there’ll be some trouble there. That’s how come that law was nosin round.”
[REDACTED] rode up through country as yellow and flat as an old newspaper and went to see Karok. There was a big sign on the gate: “no maried men.” When the dour rancher asked him, [REDACTED] lied himself single, and said that he had to fetch his gear and would be back in six days.
“Five,” said the kingpin, looking at him suspiciously. “Other fellas look for work, they carry their fixins. They don’t have to go home and git it.”
[REDACTED] worked up some story about visiting Cheyenne and not knowing he’d been laid off until one of the old outfit’s boys showed up and said they were all on the bum.
“Yeah? Get goin, then. Roundup started two days ago.”
Back on the Little Weed with Rose, he half explained the situation, said she would not be able to send him letters or messages until he worked something out, said he had to get back to Karok’s outfit fast and would be gone for months and that she had better get her mother to come down from the station to help with the baby, expected in late September.
“She can’t stand a make that trip. You know how sick she is. Won’t you come back for the baby?” Even in the few days he had been gone, he seemed changed. She touched him and sat very close, waiting for the familiar oneness to lock them together.
“If I can git loose I will. But this is a real good job, good money, fifty-five a month, almost twice what Bunk Peck pays, and I’m goin a save ever nickel. And if she can’t come down, you better go up there, be around womenfolk. Maybe I can git Tom to bring you up, say in July or August? Or sooner?” He was fidgety, as though he wanted to leave that minute. “He been around? His place was closed up when I stopped there before. I’ll stop again on my way.”
Rose said that if she had to go to the station, early September was soon enough. She did not want to be where she would have to tend her sick mother and put up with her drunk father, to see the telegraph man’s face like an eroded cliff, to suffer Mrs. Dorgan’s supercilious comments about “some people” directed at Queeda but meant for Rose to hear. She did not want to show up rough and distended and abandoned, without the husband they had prophesied would skedaddle. September was five months away, and she would worry about it when it came. Together they added up what a year’s pay might come to, working for Karok.
“If you save everthing it will be six hundred fifty dollars. We’ll be rich, won’t we?” she asked in a mournful tone he chose not to notice.
He spoke enthusiastically. “And that’s not countin what I maybe can pick up in wolf bounties. Possible another hunderd. Enough to git us started. I’ll quit this feller’s ranch after a year an git back here.”
“How do I get news to you—about the baby?”
“I don’t know yet. But I’ll work somethin out. You know what? I feel like I need my hair combed some. You want a comb my hair?”
“Yes,” she said, and laughed just when he’d thought she was going to cry. But for the first time she recognized that they were not two cleaving halves of one person but two separate people, and that because he was a man he could leave any time he wanted, and because she was a woman she could not. The cabin reeked of desertion and betrayal.
ARCHIE AND SINK
Men raised from infancy with horses could identify salient differences with a glance, but some had a keener talent for understanding equine temperament than others. Sink Gartrell was one of those, the polar opposite of [REDACTED] bronc-buster Wally Finch, who used a secret ghost cord and made unrideable outlaws of the horses he was breaking. Sink gave off a hard air of competence.
Sink thought the new kid might make a top hand with horses if he got over being a showoff. The second or third morning after he joined the roundup, [REDACTED] had woken early, sat up in his bedroll, and let loose a getting-up holler decorated with some rattlesnake yodels, startling old cookie Hel, who dropped the coffeepot in the fire, earning curses from the scattered bedrolls. The black smell of scorched coffee knocked the day over on the wrong side. The foreman, Alonzo Lago, who had barely noticed him before, stared hard at the curly-haired new hand who’d made all the noise. Sink saw him looking.
Later, Sink took the kid aside and put the boo on him, told him the facts of life, said that the leathery old foreman was well known for bareback riding of new young hires. [REDACTED], who’d seen it all at Peck’s bunkhouse, gave him a look as though he suspected Sink of the same base design, said that he could take care of himself and that if anyone tried anything on him he’d clean his plow good. He moved off. When Sink came in from watch at the past-midnight hour, he walked past the foreman’s bedroll but there was only a solitary head sticking out from under the tarpaulin; the kid was somewhere far away in the sage with the coyotes.
For [REDACTED] the work was the usual ranch hand’s luck—hard, dirty, long, and dull. There was no time for anything but saddle up, ride, rope, cut, herd, unsaddle, eat, sleep, and do it again. On clear, dry nights, coyote voices seemed to emanate each from a single point in a straight line, the calls crisscrossing like taut wires. When cloud cover moved in, the howls spread out in a different geometry, overlapping like concentric circles from a handful of pebbles thrown into water. But most often the wind surging over the plain sanded the cries into a kind of coyote dust, fractioned into particles of sound. He longed to be back on his own sweet place, fencing his horse pastures, happy with Rose. He thought about the coming child, imagined a boy half grown and helping him build wild-horse traps in the desert, capturing the mustangs. He could not quite conjure up a baby.
As the late summer folded, Sink saw that [REDACTED] sat straight up in the saddle, was quiet and even-tempered, good with horses. The kid was one of the kind horses liked, calm and steady. No more morning hollers, and the only songs he sang were after supper when somebody else started one, where his voice was appreciated but never mentioned. He kept to himself pretty much, often staring into the distance, but every man had something of value beyond the horizon. Despite his ease with horses, the kid had been bucked off an oily bronc that had been ruined beyond redemption by Wally Finch, and, instinctively putting out one hand to break his fall, had snapped his wrist. He spent weeks with his arm strapped to his body, rode and did everything else one-handed. Alonzo Lago fired Wally Finch, refused to pay him for ruined horses, even if they were mustangs from the wild herds, and sent him walking north to [REDACTED].
“Kid, there’s a way you fall so’s you don’t get hurt,” Sink said. “Fold your arms, see, git one shoulder up and your head down. You give a little twist while you’re fallin so’s you hit the ground with your shoulder and you just roll right on over and onto your feet.” He didn’t know why he was telling [REDACTED] this and grouched up. “Hell, figure it out yourself.”
ROSE AND THE COYOTES
July was hot, the air vibrating, the dry land like a scraped sheep hoof. The sun drew the color from everything and the Little Weed trickled through dull stones. In a month, even that trickle would be dried by the hot river rocks, the grass parched white, and preachers praying for rain. Rose could not sleep in the cabin, which was as hot as the inside of a black hatbox. Once she carried her pillow to the big stone doorstep and lay on its chill until mosquitoes drove her back inside.
She woke one morning exhausted and sweaty, and went down to the Little Weed hoping for night-cooled water. There was a dark cloud to the south, and she was glad to hear the distant rumble of thunder. In anticipation, she set out the big kettle and two buckets to catch rainwater. The advance wind came in, thrashing tree branches and ripping leaves. The grass went sidewise. Lightning danced on the crest of Barrel Mountain, and then a burst of hail swallowed up the landscape in a chattering, roaring sweep. She ran inside and watched the ice pellets flail the river rocks and slowly give way to thrumming rain. The rocks disappeared in the foam of rising water. Almost as quickly as it had started the rain stopped, a few last hailstones fell, and against the moving cloud the arc of a double rainbow promised everything. Her buckets were full of sweet water and floating hailstones. She stripped and poured dippers of goose-bump water over her head again and again until one bucket was nearly empty and she was shaking. The air was as cool and fresh as September, the heat broken. Around midnight the rain began again, slow and steady. Half awake, she could hear it dripping on the stone doorstep.
The next morning, it was cold and sleety and her back ached; she wished for the heat of summer to return. She staggered when she walked, and making coffee didn’t seem worth it. She drank water and stared at the icy spicules sliding down the window glass. Around midmorning the backache increased, working itself into a slow rhythm. It dawned on her very slowly that the baby was not waiting for September. By afternoon the backache was an encircling python and she could do nothing but pant and whimper, the steady rattle of rain dampening her moaning call for succor. She wriggled out of her heavy dress and put on her oldest nightgown. The pain increased to waves of cramping agony that left her gasping for breath, on and on, the day fading into night, the rain torn away by wind, the dark choking hours eternal. Another dawn came, sticky with the return of heat, and still her raw loins could not deliver the child. On the fourth day, when Rose was voiceless from calling for [REDACTED], her mother, Tom Ackler, Tom Ackler’s cat, from screaming imprecations at all of them, at God, any god, then at the river ducks and the weasel, to any entity that might hear, the python relaxed its grip and slid off the bloody bed, leaving her spiralling down in plum-colored mist.
It seemed to be late afternoon. She was glued to the bed, and at the slightest movement felt a hot surge that she knew was blood. She got up on her elbows and saw the clotted child, stiff and gray, the barley-rope cord, and the afterbirth. She did not weep, but, filled with an ancient rage, knelt on the floor, ignoring the hot blood seeping from her, and rolled the infant up in the rough sheet. It was a bulky mass, and she felt the loss of the sheet as another tragedy. When she tried to stand, the blood poured, but she was driven to bury the child, to end the horror of the event. She crept to the cupboard, got a dishtowel, and rewrapped the baby in a smaller bundle. Her hand closed on the silver spoon, her mother’s wedding present, and she thrust it into the placket neck of her nightgown, the cool metal like balm.
Clenching the knot of the dishtowel in her teeth, she crawled out the door and toward the sandy soil near the river, where, still on hands and knees, she dug a shallow hole with the silver spoon and laid the child in it, heaping it with sand and piling on top whatever river stones were within reach. It took more than an hour to follow her blood trail back to the cabin, the twilight deep by the time she reached the doorstep.
The bloody sheet lay bunched on the floor and the bare mattress showed a black stain like the map of South America. She lay on the floor, for the bed was miles away, a cliff only birds could reach. Everything seemed to swell and shrink, the twitching bed leg, a dank clout swooning over the edge of the dishpan, the wall itself bulging forward, the chair flying viciously—all pulsing with the rhythm of her hot, pumping blood. Barrel Mountain, bringing darkness, squashed its bulk against the window, and owls crashed through, wings like iron bars. Struggling through the syrup of subconsciousness in the last hour, she heard the coyotes outside and knew what they were doing.
THE LINE SHACK
As the September nights cooled, Ar chie got nervous, went into town as often as he could, called at the post office, but no one saw him come out with any letters or packages. Alonzo Lago sent Sink and [REDACTED] to check some distant draws, ostensibly for old renegade cows too wily or a few mavericks too young to be caught in any roundup.
“What’s eatin you?” said Sink as they rode out, but the kid shook his head. Half an hour later he opened his mouth as if he were going to say something, looked away from Sink, and gave a half shrug.
“Got somethin you want a say,” Sink said, “Chrissake say it. I got my head on backwards or what? You didn’t know we was goin a smudge brands? Goin a get all holy about it, are you?”
[REDACTED] looked around.
“I’m married,” he said. “She is havin a baby. Pretty soon.”
“Well, I’m damned. How old are you?”
“Seventeen. Old enough to do what’s got a be did. Anyway, how old are you?”
“Thirty-two. Old enough a be your daddy.” There was a half-hour silence, then Sink started again. “You know old Karok don’t keep married fellers. Finds out, he’ll fire you.”
“He ain’t goin a find out from me. And it’s more money than I can git on the Little Weed. But I got a find a way Rose can let me know. About things.”
“Well, I ain’t no wet nurse.”
“I know that.”
“Long as you know it.” Damn fool kid, he thought, his life already too complicated to live. He said aloud, “Me, I wouldn’t never git hitched to no fell-on-a-hatchet female.”
The next week, half the crew went into town and [REDACTED] spent an hour on the bench outside the post office writing on some brown wrapping paper, and addressed the tortured missive to Rose at the stage station where he believed her to be. What about the baby? he wrote. Is he born? But inside the post office the walleyed clerk with fingernails like yellow chisels told him the postage had gone up.
“First time in a hunderd year. Cost you two cents a send a letter now.” He smirked with satisfaction. [REDACTED], who had only one cent, tore up his letter and threw the pieces in the street. The wind dealt them to the prairie, its chill promising a tight-clenched winter. 
Rose’s parents moved to [REDACTED] in November, seeking a cure for Mrs. Mealor’s declining health.
“You think you can stay sober long enough to ride down and let Rosie and [REDACTED] know we are going?” the sick woman whispered to Sundown.
“Why, I am goin right now soon as I find my other boot. Just you don’t worry, I got it covered.”
A full bottle of whiskey took him as far as the river crossing. Dazedly drunk, he rode to the little cabin on the river but found the place silent, the door closed. Swaying, feeling the landscape slide around, he called out three or four times but was unable to get off his horse, and knew well enough that if he did he could never get back on.
“They’re not there,” he reported to his wife. “Not there.”
“Where could they be? Did you put a note on the table?”
“Didn’t think of it. Anyway, not there.”
“I’ll write her from [REDACTED],” she whispered.
Within a week of their departure a replacement freighter arrived, Buck Roy, with his heavyset wife and a raft of children. The Mealors, who had failed even to be buried in the stage station’s cemetery, were forgotten.
There were no cattle as bad as Karok’s to stray, and ranchers said it was a curious thing the way his cows turned up in distant locations. December was miserable, one storm after another bouncing in like a handful of hurled poker chips, and January turned cold enough to freeze flying birds dead. Alonzo Lago sent [REDACTED] out alone to gather any bovine wanderers he could find in a certain washout area, swampy in June but now made up of hundreds of deep holes and snaky little streams smoothly covered with snow.
“Keep your eyes peeled for any Wing-Cross leather-pounders. Better take some sticks and a cinch ring.” So [REDACTED] knew he was looking for Wing-Cross cows, to doctor their brands. But the Wing-Cross had its own little ways with brand reworkings, so he guessed it was more or less an even exchange.
The horse did not want to go into the swamp maze. It was one of the warm days between storms, and the snow was soft. [REDACTED] dismounted and led his horse, keeping to the edge of the bog, wading through wet snow for hours. The exercise sweated him up. Only two cows allowed themselves to be driven out into the open, the others scattering far back into the coyote willows behind the swamp. In the murky, half-frozen world of stream slop and trampled stems there was no way a man alone could fix brands. He watched the cows circle around to the backcountry. The wind dived, pulling cold air with it. The weather was changing. When he reached the bunkhouse, four hours after dark, the thermometer had fallen to zero. His boots were frozen, and, chilled to the liver, he fell asleep without eating or undressing beyond his boots.
“Git back and git them cows,” hissed Alonzo Lago two hours later, leaning over his face. “Git up and on it. Rat now! Mr. Karok wants them cows.”
“Goddam short nights on this goddam ranch,” [REDACTED] muttered, pulling on his wet boots.
Back in the swamp it was just coming light, like gray polish on the cold world, the air so still that [REDACTED] could see the tiny breath cloud of a finch on a willow twig. Beneath the hardened crust the snow was wallowy. His fresh horse was Poco, who did not know any swamps. Poco blundered along, stumbled in an invisible sinkhole, and took [REDACTED] deep with him. The snow shot down his neck, up his sleeves, into his boots, filled eyes, ears, nose, matted his hair. Poco, in getting up, rammed [REDACTED]’s hat deep into the bog. The snow in contact with his body heat melted, and as he climbed back into the saddle the wind that accompanied the pale sunlight froze his clothes. Somehow he managed to push eight Wing-Cross strays out of the swamp and back toward the high ground, but his matches would not light, and while he struggled to make a fire the cows scattered. He could barely move, and when he got back to the bunkhouse he was frozen into the saddle and had to be pried off the horse by two men. He heard cloth rip.
Sink thought the kid had plenty of sand and, muttering that he wasn’t no wet nurse, pulled off the icy boots, unbuttoned coat and shirt, half hauled him stumbling to his bunk, and brought two hot rocks from under the stove to warm him up. John Tank, a [REDACTED] drifter, said he had an extra pair of overalls [REDACTED] could have—old and mended but still with some wear in them.
“Hell, better’n ridin around bare-ass in January.”
But the next morning when [REDACTED] tried to get up he was overcome by dizziness. Boiling heat surged through him, his cheeks flamed red, his hands burned, and he had a dry, constant cough. The bunkhouse slopped back and forth as if on rockers.
Sink looked at him and thought, Pneumonia. “You look pretty bad. I’ll go see what Karok says.”
When he came back half an hour later, [REDACTED] was on fire.
“Karok says to git you out a here, but the bastard won’t let me take the wagon. He says he’s got a cancer in his leg and he needs that wagon for hisself to have the doc at the fort cut it out. Lon’s fixin up a kind a travois. His ma had some Indan kin so he knows how to fix it. Sometimes he ain’t so bad. We’ll git you down to Cheyenne and you can ride the train a where your mother is, your folks, Rawlins, whatever. Karok says. And he says you are fired. I had a tell him you was married so he would let you loose. He was all set a have you die in the bunkhouse. We’ll get a doc, beat this down. It’s only pneumony. I had it twice.”
[REDACTED] tried to say his mother was long gone and that he needed to get to Rose down on the Little Weed, tried to say that it was sixty-odd miles from Rawlins to their cabin, but he couldn’t get out a word because of the wheezing, breath-sucking cough. Sink shook his head, and got some biscuits and bacon from the cook.
Alonzo Lago had trimmed out two long poles and laced a steer hide to them. Sink wrapped the legs of a horse named Preacher in burlap to keep the crust from cutting them and lashed the travois poles to his saddle, a tricky business to get the balance right. The small ends projected beyond the horse’s ears, but the foreman said that was to accommodate wear on the drag ends. They rolled [REDACTED] and his bedroll in a buffalo robe, and Sink began to drag him to Cheyenne, a hundred miles south. With the wagon it would have been easy. Sink thought the travois was not as good a contraption as Indians claimed. The wind, which had dropped a little overnight, came up again, pushing a lofty bank of cloud. After four hours they had covered nine miles. The snow began, increasing in intensity until they were travelling blind.
“Kid, I can’t see nothin,” Sink called. He stopped and dismounted, went to [REDACTED]. The earlier snow had melted as fast as it touched that red, feverish face, but gradually, just a fraction of an inch above the surface of the hot flesh, a mask of ice now formed a gray glaze.
“Better hole up. There’s a line shack somewheres around here could we find it. I was there all summer couple years back. Down a little from the top of a hogback.”
The horse had also spent that summer at the line camp and he went straight to it now. It was on the lee side of the hogback, a little below the crest. The wind had dumped an immense amount of snow on the tiny cabin, but Sink found the door to the lean-to entryway, and that would do to shelter Preacher. A shovel with a broken handle leaned against the side of the stall. Inside the cabin there was a table and a backless chair and a plank bunk about twenty inches wide. The stove was heaped with snow and the stovepipe lay on the floor. Sink recognized the chipped enamel plate and cup on the table.
He wrestled [REDACTED] inside and got him and the buffalo robe onto the plank bunk, then put the stovepipe together and jammed it up through the roof hole. Neither inside nor in the entryway could he see any chunk wood, but he remembered where the old chip pile had been and, using the broken shovel, scraped up enough snow-welded chips to get the fire going. While the chips were steaming and sizzling in the stove he unsaddled Preacher, removed the gunnysacks from his legs, and rubbed him down. He checked the lean-to’s shallow loft, hoping for hay, but there was nothing.
“God damn,” he said, and tore some of the loft floorboards loose to burn in the stove. Back outside, he dug through the snow with the broken shovel until he hit ground, got out his knife, and sawed off the sun-cured grass until he had two or three hatfuls.
“Best I can do, Preacher,” he said, tossing it down for the horse.
It was almost warm inside the shack. From his saddlebag he took a small handful of the coffee beans he always carried. The old coffee grinder was still on the wall, but a mouse had built a nest in it, and unwilling to drink boiled mouse shit he crushed the beans on the table with the flat of his knife. He looked around for the coffeepot that belonged to the cabin but did not see it. There was a five-gallon coal-oil tin near the bunk. He sniffed at it, but could detect no noisome odors. It was while he was outside scraping up snow to melt on the stove that the edge of the coal-oil can hit the coffeepot, which, for some unfathomable reason, had been tossed into the front yard. That, too, he packed with snow. It looked to him as though the last occupant of the shack had been someone with a grudge, showing his hatred of Karok by throwing coffeepots and burning all the wood. Maybe a Wing-Cross rider.
The coffee was hot and black but when he brought the cup to [REDACTED] the kid swallowed one mouthful, then coughed, and finally puked it up. Sink drank the rest himself and ate one of the biscuits.
It was a bad night. The bunk was too narrow and the kid so hot and twitchy that Sink, swooning in and out of forty-wink snaps of sleep, finally got up and slept in the chair with his head on the table. A serious blizzard and fatal cold began to slide down from the Canadian plains that night, and when it broke twelve days later the herds were decimated, cows packed ten deep against barbwire fences, pronghorn congealed into statues, trains stalled for three weeks by forty-foot drifts, and two cowpunchers in a line shack frozen together in a buffalo robe.
It was May before Tom Ackler rode up from [REDACTED], where he had spent the fall and winter. Despite the beating sunshine, the snow was still deep around his cabin. Patches of bare ground showed bright green with a host of thrusting thistles. He wondered if Gold Dust had made it through. He could see no cat tracks. He lit a fire using an old newspaper on the table, and, just before the flame swallowed it, glimpsed a few pencilled words and the signature “[REDACTED].”
“Lost whatever it was. I’ll go down tomorrow and see how they are doin.” And he unpacked his saddlebags and pulled his blankets out of the sack hanging from a rafter where they were safe from mice.
In the morning, Gold Dust pranced out of the trees, her coat thick. Tom let her in, threw her a choice piece of bacon.
“Look like you kept pretty good,” Tom said. But the cat sniffed at the bacon, went to the door, and, when Tom opened it, returned to the woods. “Probly shacked up with a bobcat,” he said. “Got the taste for wild meat.” Around noon he saddled the horse and headed for the McLaverty cabin.
No smoke rose from the chimney. A slope of snow lay against the woodpile. He noticed that very little wood had been burned. The weasel’s tracks were everywhere, right up into the eaves. Clear enough the weasel had gotten inside. “Damn sight more comfortable than a woodpile.” As Tom squinted at the tracks, the weasel suddenly squirted out of a hole in the eaves and looked at him. It was whiter than the rotting snow, and its black-tipped tail twitched. It was the largest, handsomest weasel he had ever seen, with shining eyes and a lustrous coat. He thought of his cat and it came to him that wild creatures managed well through the winter. He wondered if Gold Dust could breed with a bobcat, and recalled then that Rose had been expecting. “Must be they went to the station.” But he opened the door and looked inside, calling, “Rose? [REDACTED]?” What he found sent him galloping for the stage station.
At the station everything was in an uproar, all of them standing in the dusty road in front of the Dorgans’ house, Mrs. Dorgan crying, Queeda with her mouth agape, and Robert F. Dorgan shouting at his wife, accusing her of betraying him with a human wreck. They paid little attention to Tom Ackler when he slid in on his lathered horse calling that Rose McLaverty was raped and murdered and mutilated by Utes, sometime in the winter, God knew when. Only Mrs. Buck Roy, the new freighter’s wife, who was terrified of Indians, paid him much attention. The Dorgans continued to scream at each other. The more urgent event to them was the suicide that morning of the old bachelor telegraph operator, who had swallowed lye after weeks of scribbling a four-hundred-page letter addressed to Robert Dorgan and outlining his hopeless adoration of Mrs. Dorgan, the wadded pages fulsomely riddled with references to “ivory thighs,” “the Adam and Eve dance,” “her secret slit,” and the like. What Tom Ackler had thought was an old saddle and a pile of grain sacks on the station porch was the corpse.
“Where there’s smoke there’s fire!” bellowed Robert F. Dorgan. “I took you out a that [REDACTED] cathouse and made you a decent woman, give you everthing, and here’s how you reward me, you drippin bitch! How many times you snuck over there? How many times you took his warty old cock?”
“I never! I didn’t! That filthy old brute,” sobbed Mrs. Dorgan, suffused with rage that the vile man had fastened his attentions on her, had dared to write down his lascivious thoughts as real events, putting in the details of her pink-threaded camisole, the red mole on her left buttock, and, finally, vomiting black blood all over the telegraph shack and the front porch of the Dorgans’ house, where he had dragged himself to die, the bundle of lies stuffed in his shirt. For years she had struggled to make herself into a genteel specimen of womanhood, grateful that Robert F. Dorgan had saved her from economic sexuality and determined to erase that past. Now, if Dorgan forced her away, she would have to go back on the game, for she could think of no other way to make a living. And maybe Queeda, too, whom she’d brought up as a lady! Her sense of personal worth faltered, then flared up as if doused with kerosene.
“Why, you dirty old rum-neck,” she said in a hoarse voice, “what gives you the idea that you got a right to a beautiful wife and daughter? What gives you the idea we would stay with you? Look at you—you want a be the territory surveyor, but without me and Queeda to talk up the important political men you couldn’t catch a cold.”
Dorgan knew it was true and gnawed at his untrimmed mustache. He turned and melodramatically strode into his house, slamming the door so hard the report killed mice. Mrs. Dorgan had won, and she followed him in for a reconciliation.
Tom Ackler looked at Queeda, who was tracing an arc in the dirt with the toe of her kid-leather boot. They heard the rattle of a stove lid inside the house—Mrs. Dorgan making up a fire to warm the bedroom.
“Rose McLaverty—” he said, but Queeda shrugged. A tongue of wind lapped the dust, creating a miniature whirl that caught up straws, horsehairs, minute mica fragments, and a feather. Queeda walked away around the shaded back of the Dorgan house. Tom Ackler stood holding the reins, then remounted and started back.
On the way, he thought of the whiskey in his cupboard, then of Rose, and decided he would get drunk that night and bury her the next day. It was the best he could do for her. He thought, too, that perhaps it hadn’t been Utes who killed her but her young husband, berserk and raving, and now fled to distant ports. He remembered the burned newspaper with [REDACTED]’s message consumed before it could be read and thought it unlikely that if [REDACTED] had killed his young wife in a frenzy he would stop by a neighbor’s place and leave a signed note. Unless maybe it was a confession. There was no way to know what had happened. The more he thought about [REDACTED], the more he remembered his clear, hard voice and his singing. He thought about Gold Dust’s rampant vigor and rich fur, about the sleek weasel at the McLaverty cabin. Some lived and some died, and that’s how it was.
He buried Rose in front of the cabin and for a tombstone wrestled the sandstone doorstep upright. He wanted to chisel her name on it but put it off until the snows started. By then it was too late, time for him to head back to [REDACTED].
The following spring, as he rode past the cabin, he saw that frost heaves had tipped the stone over and that the ridgepole of the roof had broken under a heavy weight of snow. He rode on, singing, “When the green grass comes, and the wild rose blooms,” one of [REDACTED]’s songs, and wondering if Gold Dust had made it through again. 

