THE BELL RINGER
By John Burnside

Half a mile beyond the sign for Lathockar mill, Eva Lowe turned off the main coastal road and took the back way through Kinaldy woods. It wasn’t the most direct route into the village, but her father had always liked that stretch of road, maybe because it reminded him of Slovakia, and they’d often come this way on their Sunday walks, when her mother was still alive. It was dark, out on the narrow lane that ran past the sawmills, dark and very green, the boundary wall a dim colony of moss and ferns, the shadows under the trees damp and still. To most people, it seemed gloomy, but for Eva it was as close to the landscape of home as she could imagine—especially now, with new snow settling on the pines and on the ridges of the drystone wall, so that the land resembled nothing so much as a children’s-book illustration, the snow steady and insistent in a kingdom that had succumbed to the bad fairy’s spell and slept for a hundred years in a viridian web of gossamer and thorns. Her father had always loved that story, and she still had the book he had read to her from, the one he’d bought because it reminded him of home. Those pictures were her one real memento of him, page after page of watercolors from a world that, even before she opened the book for the first time, was gone forever, leaf green and sky blue and damson, wiped out by a tide of cattle trucks and unmarked graves.
Her father had been a long time dying, and Matt had lost patience with it all. He would never say what he was thinking, but it was clear that he resented the time she spent at the hospital, and Eva had started looking forward to the days or weeks when her husband was away, inspecting a rig in the North Sea or designing some mysterious installation in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED]. During the last month of her father’s life, Matt had been away more often than not, and that had been fine with Eva. It had given her a space to come to terms with things, a silence in which to remember her father’s voice, singing to her in the language of his childhood or reciting those old folk stories that he loved. Later, when it was all over, she had found herself alone in the old farmhouse, with nowhere to go and nothing to do, and nobody to talk to but Matt’s sister, Martha, who had started coming to the house on Saturday mornings with cakes and baskets of apples. She never came when Matt was there, but when he was away she would invite herself over. It had become a routine: every Saturday, at around ten-thirty, Martha would arrive and they would sit by the Aga and have long conversations. Sometimes too long. It was Martha’s fault, in fact, that Eva was late now, though she didn’t mind that so much: her sister-in-law had been a good friend in those first days, when her grief was still raw. That was how Martha talked about such things, her language straight out of self-help books and women’s magazines, but it had worked, and Eva had looked forward to sitting for hours over a plate of biscuits, telling each other the stories people tell when they are trying to remember what it was they were doing before their lives were so rudely interrupted.
Looking back, though, Eva could see that the real interruption had not been her father’s death. She had always known he would die, and she had tried to prepare herself for the loss. Of course, as Martha said, you can never be truly prepared for the death of a loved one, especially when it happens so slowly and painfully. Still, the fact was that in the aftermath of the funeral, when it had seemed as if the whole world had fallen silent, what had troubled Eva most was her marriage, not her father’s absence. Matt had come back for a few days to assist with the arrangements, and she couldn’t help noticing his relief that this phase of their existence was over, just as he seemed relieved to be going back to work once the business of the interment was over. Until then, she had thought it was her husband she was missing when she sat up at night staring out at the orchard and the fields beyond, fields that had once belonged to Matt’s people and were now rented out to neighbors. Sometimes, she remembered him as he had been when they first met: his charm, his quiet sense of humor, the little games he had played to amuse her. He would bring her flowers, or fruit from the orchard, and when it became clear that they were serious about each other he had created a long-running joke about their having identical tattoos: hearts, roses, Celtic knots, tiny bluebirds tucked away in the secret angles of their bodies, where only they could see. That romantic phase hadn’t lasted past the first year of marriage, but she still remembered it. When he’d started travelling, she had replayed it dutifully in her mind, because, she told herself, surely they had loved each other back then, and if they had loved each other once they could love each other again. Yet all the while she was aware of how deliberate that remembering was, and she knew, when she was alone, that it wasn’t really Matt she was missing.
The truth was that she didn’t mind being on her own; it was just that she didn’t like being alone in that house. If they had lived somewhere else, if Matt had sold up and bought a property in the village—a notion he’d considered for a long time before abandoning the idea—she would have been fine. She could have got by, even when he was away for months, living his separate life, not bothering to phone for days on end and, when he did, making it clear that he had other things to think about, that this was some duty he felt he had to perform. Whenever she put down the phone, she would picture him in some bright room—a conference center, perhaps, or a restaurant—discussing weighty business with colleagues, talking about engineering or politics just loud enough so the waitress would hear. Maybe he would flirt a little, and maybe he would do more. She could see him telling his little jokes, she could see how charming he would seem to the girl, who would be young and bright and eager to please. At such times, the house would close in around her, dark, damp, utterly still, and yet busy with the echoes and memories of those who had gone before, generation upon generation of Lowes, all dark-eyed and stocky and taciturn, watching her from the shadows, listening when she spoke on the phone: listening, watching, judging. Sometimes she even imagined she saw them, though it was never final, never anything as conclusive as a haunting, just phantoms from the stories Matt had told her when they were courting: Old John Lowe with his hurricane lamp coming in from the orchard; the twins, Maybeth and Cathy, sitting on the cold flagstones in the scullery amid a litter of kittens; the stricken, defiantly cheerful Eleanor, lying in what was now the guest room, dying slowly in her mid-teens. Whenever Eva was alone in the house, they would make themselves known, not quite present but there all the same, and it always seemed to her that they were waiting for something. After a while, she’d find herself talking, not so much to herself as to them, pretending she was somebody else, trying to win them over, and she knew she had to get out.
She hadn’t known what to do at first; then, one afternoon when she had finished the shopping, she had stayed on in the village, wandering about like a tourist, taking it all in. The church, the two pubs, the school. The large well-kept green, with its row of chestnut trees on the south side. This was her home, but she had never really felt like a local. Her father had come to the place as a young man; she had gone to the school, and her mother had stood in the queue at the butcher’s with all the other women, picking out cuts of meat at one counter, then going over to the kiosk at the back to pay. In those days, the people who prepared the meat didn’t handle money, and she had liked that, the way they kept it all separate. The butcher had been a good man, friendly to her mother, always offering a kind word and picking out the best cuts for her, but his wife had been mean and silent as she took the money, and sometimes she had kept it a little longer in her hand, staring at it, as if she thought it might be some kind of foreign currency. That was how they were, back then. They hadn’t liked having a stranger in their midst, and they liked it even less when one of their own took it into her head to marry him. Those people were gone now, and the man who served the chops and sausages took her credit card without a second glance.
At four o’clock, the church clock chimed, and she was about to go back to the car when she thought of the community center. There was a café there, and she remembered that they had activities: flower arranging and Italian classes, Toc H, the Women’s Institute. She didn’t see herself as the W.I. type, and she wasn’t even sure what Toc H was, but she walked to the center anyway, and scrutinized the notice boards in the foyer, the timetables for events and classes neatly pinned out in rows among notices for Brownies and photographs of children in karate whites. She considered yoga, because she thought it would be relaxing, but she quickly dismissed the image of herself in a leotard. On Wednesday nights they had a beginners’ class in French, which she’d studied in school but completely forgotten, and she had more or less decided that this was the class for her when she saw a small white postcard, set apart from the rest, announcing that the bell-ringing club was looking for new members. Everyone welcome, it said; no experience needed.
If someone had asked Eva Lowe to imagine a typical bell ringer, she would have pictured some churchy spinster in a hand-knitted cardigan and brogues, or maybe a man in a tweed hat and one of those army-navy-store sweaters that all the keen hikers wore when they climbed the Ben, but, reading that notice, she had a sudden notion of herself in a bell tower, standing in a circle of like-minded souls, the kindly faces touched with a warm, coppery lamplight, the bells ringing out over the stillness of the churchyard as the people of the village settled to their dinners or rose from their beds and made ready for Sunday service. She wasn’t a religious person, as such, but she had always liked the church for its own sake, especially when it was lit with candles on Christmas Eve or brimming with sheaves of barley and ripe fruit at harvest time. As a child, she had sometimes walked around the graveyard during lunch break, when the other kids were playing, and she had made a point of reading all the names on the stones. Her father had told her off for that: God was a lie, he said, and Heaven was a myth. Yet Eva thought the place had less to do with God and his angels than with an ordinary, and understandable, desire to have things continue as they had always done. Easter, Harvest, Christmas: it all went round, forever and ever, and nothing could change that. It was a pagan desire, she thought, and it was a pagan place: a dark garden of yews and straggling roses and, at its center, the stone church, with its altar and its font and, above it all, the bells, suspended in the chill air of the belfry, heavy and still, waiting to be brought to life. It surprised her, all these thoughts running through her head as she stood there, reading the postcard. She took out her shopping list and jotted down the relevant contact details.
It turned out that the organizer was someone she had known in school, and though the woman seemed not to remember Eva, she had been very kind, and the other bell ringers gentle and considerate, always ready to help her out, never noticing when she got things wrong. Matt had laughed when she told him. He’d come home three weeks after she started, and after listening to her talk about it for a couple of minutes he’d just shaken his head.
“Well, I’m glad you’ve found something you like,” he said. “To be honest, I think you’re crackers, but if it keeps you happy.” He’d noticed that she was annoyed then, and stopped talking, but he hadn’t tried to undo the damage. He wasn’t that interested. Whenever he was home, he would spend hours on the phone or go out to the pub with his old crowd; then he would be off again. Eva hadn’t expected him to understand, but she was still hurt that he could be so dismissive. Hurt, and then, when she talked to Martha about it, angry, because Martha had been angry and that had made Eva’s anger seem more justified. Martha had been supportive, not just understanding that Eva needed a hobby but getting it—getting, without having to be told, the whole thing about the lighted church and the belfry and that magical resonance of the bells ringing out over the fields and the village green. But, then, that was how Martha had been from the first. She had understood how Eva felt about the house and, even though she was just as proud of her family history as Matt was, she could see how all that Lowe mythology might make an outsider feel uncomfortable. Eva had been impressed by that, and later, as they had got to know each other, she had been gladdened by the idea that someone she knew, a friend, almost a sister, was on her side.
So it had come as a shock, that morning, when Martha more or less announced that she was having an affair. She hadn’t intended the revelation to be shocking, of course; she’d even tried to make light of it as they sat in the kitchen over a glass of wine. Eva didn’t normally drink in the daytime, but, maybe because it was so close to Christmas, she had fetched a bottle of white wine out of the fridge, instead of doling out the usual coffee and biscuits, and Martha had opened up after her second glass, talking about how unhappy she was with James, and how tired she was of being taken for granted.
“I’ll pretend to other people,” she had said. “But I won’t go on pretending to myself.” She wasn’t terribly upset; she wasn’t even that emotional. Most of the time, when people talked about their problems, Eva thought, they were working things out as they went along, looking for the reaction that would justify whatever decision they were hoping to reach—but Martha wasn’t like that. She had thought it all through beforehand, and was now simply confirming what she had decided. “A person can die from lack of . . .” She considered a moment.
Eva was worried, afraid she was about to hear something embarrassing, but she didn’t say anything. She didn’t want to interrupt.
“Contact,” Martha said at last, with grim satisfaction. She gave Eva a curious look, as if she wanted to ask her something, then she let it go. “I’m not talking about sex here,” she said. “Or not just sex. I’m talking about contact. A hug, a touch—that’s all.” She thought for a moment, and gave a soft laugh. “All right,” she said. “I am talking about sex.”
Eva laughed, though she wasn’t amused. “But what about James?” she said.
Martha waved her hand. “To hell with James,” she said. When she was annoyed, she looked older, and not so attractive—something she obviously knew, because she bowed her head. Then, after a moment of quiet, she spoke, her head still bowed. “It’s not as if it’s going anywhere,” she said. She looked up, and her face was calm again, composed. “It’s just one of those things. I didn’t plan on it. It just happened.”
Eva didn’t know what to say. She remembered Martha telling her once that James was constitutionally mean, and she wondered whether he suspected anything. He was a big man, with large hands and a cruel mouth, a man used to getting his own way, at any price—a man like Matt, in fact. Casual and charming, but careless of others, steeped in quiet judgment and long-term calculation, his life a fixed agenda that, no matter what happened, would continue on its set course, to whatever end he had decided he deserved. If James found out about the affair, he wouldn’t go out with a kitchen knife looking for Martha and her lover; he would find much finer ways—legal ways—to make their lives miserable.
Martha smiled, but she was far away, lost in her own thoughts. “It’s not as if it’s going to change anything,” she said, more to herself than to anyone else. It was a minute or so before she looked back at Eva. “You only live once, right?” she said.
Eva shook her head and stood up. Suddenly, she had to do something. She knew Martha would take it badly, but she needed to be out of the house, away from the ancestors in the walls, listening in on Martha’s confession, away from the thought of Matt and of what he would think if he knew what his sister was up to. Worse, what he would do if he discovered that Eva had known about it from the start. She picked up her glass and carried it over to the sink. “My God, look at the time,” she said, aware of how awkward this diversion was, of how inconsiderate she was being. She turned and gave Martha a quick glance. She felt guilty, but she was annoyed, too, because she didn’t want to be in on this secret—or maybe it was because she didn’t want to have to think about all this, about contact and affairs and things that just happen.
Martha looked more surprised than upset. “Is there somewhere you have to be?” she asked.
“I’m sorry,” Eva said. “I just . . . I’m going to be late for bell ringing.” She looked away quickly, blinking back tears that she hadn’t expected—and the fact that she was about to cry was somehow the worst of it all, a self-imposed humiliation.
Martha’s expression didn’t change; if anything, she appeared to be more concerned for Eva than with her own problems. “I’m sorry,” she said. “I shouldn’t have told you about it. It’s not fair.” She looked at her glass and saw that it was nearly empty. She sat back, and smiled ruefully. “Some secrets are better kept secret,” she said.

Eva shook her head. “It’s not that,” she said. “I hope you’ll be . . . happy.”
Martha laughed. “Well, I doubt that,” she said, with just a hint of a hard edge in her voice. She gave Eva a long look, then she shook her head and laughed again. “I doubt anybody will come out of this happy,” she said.
Before Eva could think better of it, she had spoken, and though she didn’t mean it to sound dismissive, she wasn’t sorry when it did. “Well, there you go,” she said.
Martha froze for a moment and stared at her. Then she laughed again and raised her glass. “There you go,” she said, without a trace of mockery or dismissal. “There you go, indeed.” She tossed back the wine and poured herself another glass. “And God bless us, every one,” she said, as she rose, fetched her coat from the hat stand, and made herself ready to go.
When Eva arrived at the church, the others were already there, though she wasn’t as late as she feared, and they had not begun without her. Nobody said much, but then they never did. Nobody inquired about family or work. She knew these people only as they were in this place, a group of like-minded souls, equals in discretion, united by a common tact. The world outside and what they did there was another matter altogether. Richard, Catherine, Grace, Simon, John: as soon as they put on their coats and scarves and—yes, it so happened that some of them, at least, fitted the image she’d had of them that first day—their tweed caps and bicycle clips, they seemed to dwindle away, the light going out of their faces, their secret selves discarded for their return to the outside world. It had come as a surprise to her, those first few weeks: the reason she had joined the group had been to make new friends, but now she was grateful that nobody here wanted to do anything but gather at the appointed time, ring the bells, and go home.
The one exception was Harley. He was the newest member of the group, and he was nothing like the others. He’d been a welcome addition to the company: young, casually dressed, and very good-looking, he was an 556e6974656420537461746573n student from [REDACTED], or [REDACTED], or some such place. No doubt, he had come along the first time out of curiosity, because bell ringing struck him as quaint and Olde Worlde, like warm beer or clootie dumpling, and thus one of the experiences it would be a shame to miss while he was over here. He’d taken to it, though, and the group had accommodated him easily, in spite of his youth and his accent and his fondness for sweatshirts with oddly unsettling slogans printed across the front. Catherine was particularly considerate of him, bringing in brown paper bags full of apples from her garden and Tupperware containers of mince pies to share with his housemates. She was old enough to be his mother, but Eva wasn’t so sure her attentions were wholly maternal. Harley was always polite with her, in the way that 556e6974656420537461746573ns are: doggedly courteous and, at the same time, utterly remote, like the landing party in an old episode of “Star Trek,” curious and well-meaning and occasionally bewildered, but sworn not to interfere in the everyday life of their hosts.
For her own part, Eva was as scrupulously polite with Harley as he was with her—and just as distant. Yet there were times when she imagined—not sex, of course, nothing so vivid, but a shared moment of some kind. A picnic, say, on Balcomie Law, or a long walk in the woods by Lathockar. In these imaginings, they never touched—not because Harley didn’t excite her but because she’d suddenly discovered that she was superstitious, and she was afraid to imagine what she most desired, afraid even to wonder what it might be. As soon as she did, it would fall away into the realm of the impossible. That afternoon, however, she couldn’t help thinking about what Martha had said, and as Harley moved back and forth in the dim space of the bell tower she noticed how beautiful his hands were: fine, almost delicate, not large and heavy, like other men’s hands, but strong nevertheless, like a pianist’s or a dancer’s. Of course, as soon as the notion entered her mind she did everything she could to extinguish it, because she didn’t want to think about him in that way. Yet she kept coming back to him: to his dark eyes, to the way he carried himself, and, time and again, before she could stop herself, to the beauty of his hands. Hands she wanted to feel on her skin, light and slow and graceful; not heavy, never heavy, but gentle the way a bird is when it alights on a branch or a stone, resting for a moment but never entirely settled, always light, always about to take off.
And all this time, as she thought about Harley, the bells rang out over the snowy land. The bell ringers were continuing a tradition that had once been central to the life of the community, and she liked to think that only a generation ago, whenever these bells had rung out over the fields and the streets, everyone had known what they were saying. A call to worship; a royal wedding; an armistice; an enemy attack. Everyone would have understood those signals, because those were the public events, those were the facts. Yet surely there had been something else, another music inside the public proclamations, and there must have been those who could hear more than the facts, gifted listeners who could pick out the subtleties in the way one bell worked against the others, say, or in the pauses when one ringer stopped, weary or undecided, or touched with the knowledge of imminent mortality. Now the bells were nothing but background—pure atmosphere, a little local color—but perhaps there were still souls in this very parish who could decipher the inner workings of a bell ringer’s mind, just by listening. If such souls existed, they might know everything about her: the lie of her marriage, her secret thoughts about Harley, her half-formed plans to get away. With every pull on the bell rope, she might be confiding everything to some old man in the almshouses at the far end of the village, or to some dying woman in one of the cottages out by the woods; some seasoned listener who would set aside a book or a pile of darning and listen awhile, wondering who it was that was giving herself away. It frightened her, that notion, but it pleased her, too, because she wanted to proclaim the truth, she wanted to reveal who she really was: not the good and faithful wife she pretended to be but someone else, someone interrupted. That was what she wanted to say—not to confess but to proclaim to all the land. It was snowing again as she left the church. Over the green, the lights had come on in the shops, the usual gold and white mixed with the Christmas decorations, red and green and a pale, otherworldly blue around the doors and windows of the butcher’s and the greengrocer’s. Eva was dreading Christmas now: James and Martha would come over, as usual, and she would have to sit in that house with them, pretending everything was normal, drinking sherry while the men talked, passing round the mince pies and trying not to be offended by Matt’s jokes about her baking. This year, she decided, she would buy mince pies from the new delicatessen, the one that sold Polish sausage and French cheese, just to see if anybody noticed the difference. Better still, she would just disappear, maybe go out for a walk in the woods by herself. She would leave a trail of footprints in the snow, and when she got to the end of the track she would look back, the way her father had always done on their winter walks when she was a girl—and it struck her that she’d never really allowed herself time to go back to the woods, or out to the meadows where her father had sometimes led her, in the dusk of a summer’s evening, to look at moths, naming them, first in the language he had been obliged to learn as a young man, the only language Eva knew, and then in his mother’s tongue, being careful to match the two, even though the moths they found, ash gray and soft on the barks of the trees and the stones, were local to this place and only distantly related to those he had known as a boy.
“You O.K.?”
Eva turned and saw Harley in the shelter of the porch behind her, his coat buttoned up to the neck, a thick woollen crew cap pulled down over his ears. She remembered that he’d told her once that he was accustomed to cold weather, where he was from. She wished she knew what kind of region it was, whether it was prairie or forest, or just mile after mile of suburb or strip mall, like the [REDACTED] on television crime shows. She nodded. “I was just thinking we’d get a white Christmas this year,” she said. “But then I suppose you’re used to that, where you live.”
He grinned. “Oh, we get plenty of snow, all right,” he said. “Masses of it.” He paused for a moment, and Eva thought she saw something in his face: a memory, or maybe a trace of homesickness. It made him seem preoccupied, like someone who knows he has lost something and can’t remember what it is. Maybe it was a girl. There would be a girl, of course; a pretty girl in [REDACTED], or [REDACTED], a girl with long dark hair and reading glasses that she wore only when she wanted to look serious. Pretty and smart, and funny. A smart, funny girl who talked more than he did, which was why he loved her, or maybe why she loved him.
“Will you be going home for Christmas?” she asked.
He looked puzzled, as if her question were terribly personal and inappropriate, then his face brightened. “Oh, no,” he said. “I’m planning to travel around, maybe go to [REDACTED].”
“[REDACTED]?” For some reason, the idea shocked her. She had wanted to think of him at home, with his family and his girl, not alone in some foreign city, among strangers. “Really?”
He laughed. “I don’t know,” he said. “Maybe [REDACTED], maybe somewhere else.” He poked his head out from under the shelter of the porch and looked up into the falling snow. “Maybe I’ll just stay here,” he said.
Eva shook her head. “Oh, don’t do that,” she said. “Go to [REDACTED]. Go skiing or something, but don’t stay here.”
Harley laughed again, then he saw how serious she looked and he nodded. Eva tried to smile then, because she knew she had given something away, but she couldn’t, because she suddenly felt sorry for him, and for the pretty, smart girl in [REDACTED], with her books and her reading glasses. She knew how ridiculous that was, and she wanted to shrug it off, to stop being such a fool—and maybe Harley sensed that, because he touched her, his hand alighting on her coat sleeve and lingering for a moment before he took it away. “I have to go,” he said. “Have a nice evening, O.K.?”
Eva nodded, and this time she did smile, but Harley was already moving away, loping off toward the gate in his winter coat, the snow clinging to his coat sleeves and the wool cap as he stepped out onto the pavement and headed across the green. Eva knew that she should go, too, but she couldn’t bring herself to drive home to her husband’s house, and she lingered in the porch awhile, watching the snow as it fell through the shop lights on the far side of the green. Harley was gone; he had vanished suddenly and she was surprised, because he’d just been there, crossing the green, heading to the row of shops opposite. She didn’t know where he lived, but she knew it was in a shared house somewhere outside the village, probably on the west side, out by the woods. It would be a half mile or so, maybe more, and it struck her that she should have offered him a lift. But he was used to the cold and, besides, it would have been dangerous to get into a car with him and drive up through the Kinaldy woods in the snow. Out there alone with him, in the dark, with snow falling all around them, she might have said something she would have regretted.
But then he didn’t appear on the far side of the green, and she wondered where he’d gone—not because she wanted to give in to the temptation to catch up with him and drive him home to his warm house but out of simple curiosity. That was what made her step out into the snow and walk to the gate. It was like watching a conjurer perform a magic trick, when you shouldn’t really care, because you know it’s an illusion, but you just have to figure out how it’s done. Only she couldn’t figure it out, because Harley wasn’t there. He was gone. The others were gone, too, all but Catherine, who was putting something into the boot of her car twenty yards farther along, and there was nobody in the shops opposite but the people who worked there—the girl in the greengrocer’s, come round from behind the counter to stare out at the falling snow, the butcher in his white coat, clearing away the slabs of beef and lamb after a busy day. Eva felt cheated, as if Harley had tricked her on purpose—and the thought scared her, because, if he had, what reason could there be except that he knew how she felt about him and was mocking her? Or maybe he’d wanted her to look for him, maybe he’d wanted that lift, but couldn’t ask, because she was a married woman and he was an outsider. That was ridiculous, of course. The sad truth, surely, was that he’d already forgotten she existed and was on his way home, trudging happily through the snow: a young man, used to the cold, heading for home in a place he would never see again. Surely that was it, Eva told herself—yet she looked for him still, expected him to come back and resume the conversation because he had seen something in her face, something he’d looked for all along.
She stood at the gate, the snow lining the creases in her coat, her face and hands already numb with cold, and she waited to see what would happen, because something would happen—she knew it would. And just as that thought came to her, as if on cue, a familiar car appeared on the far side of the green. It was moving slowly, and the driver’s-side window was wound down, so Eva could see that it was Martha, her hair damp from the drifting snow, her face attentive as she gazed across the green toward the trees by the church. For a moment, Eva was annoyed. She assumed that Martha had come for her, and even though it made no sense, even though she didn’t want to be drawn back into that morning’s conversation, she lifted her hand, lifted it without thinking, and waved. She waved, and then she waved again—but Martha didn’t see her, and at that same moment, a few yards off to the left, a dark figure detached itself from the shadow of the big chestnut tree and hurried across, a dark figure that Eva knew from somewhere, though at first she couldn’t place it, because it didn’t make any sense: a dark figure who became Harley, running around the car and getting in on the passenger side with an air of having done this before. As soon as he was in, the car pulled away, heading out of the village and west, toward the lower woods, where the snow would be thick all night, thick and heavy and, even on the road that ran up to Kinaldy and Lathockar, completely unmarked, except for a line of tire tracks that would soon vanish into whiteness. 

