LEAVING FOR KENOSHA
Leaving [REDACTED]
By Richard Ford
It was the anniversary of the disaster. Walter Hobbes was on his way uptown to pick up his daughter, Louise, at Trinity. She had the dentist at four. Then the two of them were going for a hilariously early dinner at the place Louise liked—Papa Andre’s—out on the Chef Highway, a roadhouse on stilts that the flood had missed. Then they were going back to his condo for her homework and a Bill Murray movie. This was [REDACTED].
It was their day. Betsy, Louise’s mother, was driving out to appraise some subdivision plats in [REDACTED], then was staying at Mitch Daigle’s, across the lake. Which meant double whiskey sours and maybe a joint and some boiled shrimp. Walter and Betsy had been divorced for a year. Betsy had fallen in love with Mitch while she was showing him a house—a present he had planned for his wife for their twentieth anniversary. An anniversary that didn’t quite come off. Now and then Walter saw Mitch’s ex-wife, Hasty, at the Whole Foods. Hasty was once a great, auburn-haired stunner, from someplace in north [REDACTED]—a former Miss Something at U.A.B. Now she’d grown a little sturdy in the middle. In the Whole Foods she always glared at Walter, as if he’d dispatched Betsy into her life to commit espionage on her perfect marriage. Once he’d caught her staring at him down the aisle of lettuces and artichokes. He’d just turned, and there she was. Instantly he’d smiled at her. And a silly implicating smile had begun on her face, too. Only her shoulders had dropped then. She’d shaken her head in frustration, and her mouth had turned down. She’d put both palms out toward him, as if to drive him away. Then she’d pushed her basket out of sight, leaving Walter looking at where she’d been, and on out the front window onto Magazine Street.
Louise said, “We observed a moment of silence today for the poor flood victims.” They were driving up Prytania, past the French consul’s residence, with the faded French flag out front and a big Citroën in the circular drive. Outside it was ninety-eight, but the A.C. was going in the car. Kids with their uniform shirttails out and carrying book satchels were walking along the sidewalk from another private school in the neighborhood. The dentist was close by.
“Did any of your classmates lose someone?” Walter asked.
“I suppose so,” Louise said. Louise was in the seventh grade and knew everything about everything now. “Ginny Baxter, who’s black and has a scholarship. She and I both opened our eyes at the same time and almost laughed. It was like everybody was praying, but they weren’t, of course. It wasn’t cool.”
“Did you remember your device?” Louise’s “device” was her night guard, which she was having adjusted at Dr. De Patria’s office. She’d begun grinding her teeth at night and sometimes in the daytime, when night guards weren’t thinkable. Dr. De Patria said this was a consequence of her parents’ divorcing when she was twelve years and two months old. To Walter the fact that his daughter ground her teeth seemed a small, bitter tragedy.
“I’ve got it,” Louise said and sighed a profound sigh, placing her two small hands in her lap and twiddling all her fingers at the same time on her knee. “I have two requests,” she said, riding along.
“The court’ll entertain two requests,” Walter said. He was of course a lawyer. “As long as one of them’s not skipping the dentist.”
“It’s not.” Louise liked the dentist, who was a joke-meister who went on Catholic retreats in the woods, where he sat alone and thought for days on end. Louise considered this bizarre but interesting. He always complimented her on her beautiful teeth, which she liked to hear. “Ginny’s family’s taking her out of school—after one week—and moving away. It’s today. I want to take her a sympathy card or whatever, and say goodbye. She’ll be gone tomorrow.”
“That’s very considerate of you,” Walter said. School had, in fact, been going for only a week, and already this was happening. Louise said nothing about his saying her being considerate was a nice feature. She had her hands deep in her knapsack, digging out the green plastic case that held her night guard. They were on the dentist’s street. Aline Street, off St. Charles. “Why’re they leaving now?” Walter said, angling the big Tahoe to the curb. He intended to wait in the waiting room, read Time magazines, then chat with De Patria about fishing and politics when Louise was finished.
Louise had her green case. “Her father works for [REDACTED] He got this transfer. To Kenosha. Where’s that?”
“It’s in [REDACTED]. If it’s the same one.”
“Ginny said that. It is.”
“It’s on Lake Michigan.” He’d gone there once when he was in law school in [REDACTED]. “It gets cold there.”
“Do you think there’re a lot of black people there?”
“There’re a lot of black people everywhere up there.”
This seemed to satisfy her.
Walter was getting out of the car, or starting to.
“Would you go buy a card for me? Please?” Louise said. “While I’m being adjusted? Then can we go out to her house and I can give it to her?”
“Where does Ginny live?” Walter said.
“I have the address. I wrote it down. It was on her knapsack like mine is.” Louise said the name of the street, which was east, out St. Claude, almost to the parish line, in the part of town where many houses had been destroyed by the hurricane, two years ago. “They’re leaving today,” she said. Louise had long straight honey-brown hair and wore tortoiseshell glasses that made her look older than thirteen, made her look businesslike, which in a way she was. She was wearing her blue gingham Trinity skirt and her uniform white blouse and her white kneesocks. She looked perfect.
“We can certainly do that,” Walter said.
“They have gobs of cards at Wal-Mart,” Louise said. “I bought one for you there this year.”
“What would you like a card to say?”
Louise looked at him seriously. This was something she’d been thinking about. “ ‘Have fun in Kenosha,’ ” she said. “ ‘We’d love to have you come back. Love, Louise Hobbes.’ ”
“I doubt if I’ll find one that says exactly that,” Walter said. “You’ll have to write that yourself. I’ll get you a plain one.”
“But get a pretty one.” Hot, gasping late-afternoon air swarmed the cavity of the car. Louise was standing outside the open door, holding it, looking in at her father. “Maybe get one with a [REDACTED] theme. So she’ll remember everything down here when she’s gone and be miserable to come back.” Louise had her green night-guard container in her hand. Her nails were painted a similar green but were chipping. Green was her color. Nothing really frightened her or seemed impossible yet.
Often, at night, Walter Hobbes would lie awake in his apartment high above the broad curved sweep of the river, where container ships and tankers hung at anchor, their white running lights illuminating bits of the dense breezy darkness, and wonder what had caused Betsy to suddenly need to be divorced from him. It hadn’t seemed necessary, even if Mitch Daigle had come onto the horizon, as he unfortunately had. Mitch Daigle wasn’t even all that bad a fellow. He and Walter had known each other at the Bar Association, and been friendly doubles opponents for one summer at City Park. Mitch was from Ville Platte, a good coon-ass boy who’d come down to the city the way Walter had from [REDACTED], to ride the oil-and-gas boom, now long over with. There had been a slew of them, young lawyers who’d arrived for a single reason and then made a stand. There wasn’t a need to be long-established if you had money, and everybody did. The town welcomed that. They had both gone into private practice afterward and drifted away from their old firms. Then Betsy helped Mitch find a house on Palmer Avenue and made love to him right on the client’s tester bed, and everything got wrong. Betsy explained to him during the divorce that she’d read a book in college at Hollins, about some children who were caught in a cyclone on a South Sea island. All the animals on the island—birds and lizards and furry creatures—went crazy before the storm came. Which didn’t explain anything. It had become fashionable to blame bad things on the hurricane—things that would’ve certainly happened anyway—failures, misdeeds, infirmities of character that the hurricane could’ve had nothing to do with. As if life weren’t its own personalized storm.
Because he was a lawyer, Walter knew you didn’t expect to know why most things happened. You made the reasons up. It was difficult enough just to admit that things did happen. Life was lived mostly in your head—even for sweet Louise. Who knew what went on in that teeming brain? He didn’t. The fact was—a fact that had to be accepted—that Betsy Hobbes had now thrown herself more into her work, was living alone in a condo just like he was, was being a part-time parent, and would be spending this evening on some hot screened-in porch, drinking whiskey and staring out toward the distant lights of the city and becoming bored with life again, only in some entirely new way. That had to pass for living in the moment if you were Betsy.
The Wal-Mart lot looked and felt hotter than any place he’d been all day, the mostly empty asphalt windy and buttery with petroleum fumes from the river. The Wal-Mart had been damaged, then looted, and hadn’t been reopened long. A few souls, all black people—large women in too tight, bright-colored shorts trailing tiny kids, and muscular young men in football jerseys and baggy jeans—were trading in and out of the retail entrance, navigating immense shopping carts.
Indoors, though, was instant cool relief from the outside. Walter was dressed for the office in a suit and tie, and no one here looked like him, which made him eager to get his business over with and leave. The general feeling inside the great merchandise biosphere, stretching in hazy light almost, but not quite, farther than you could see, was of people—citizens, families, shoppers, people in wheelchairs, people in motorized carts, children wandering on their own—all staying on, making an afternoon of Wal-Mart, taking their leisure as if this were home, letting Wal-Mart be what their day offered them.
He asked the merchandise checker at the entrance where the greeting cards could be found and went straight there—to a long single aisle between the party supplies and the discount luggage. There was no reason to make a difficult assignment of this. The one he chose wouldn’t please Louise anyway. Left to herself, she would spend an hour scrutinizing everything, and then would find the exactly perfect card. Whereas he would never even see the correct one if he stayed here in the frigid, chlorinated air till midnight—which was possible to do.
Most of the cards in the tiers were for regular, identifiable occasions—graduation, birthday, anniversary, confirmation, sympathy over a mother’s death, illness, events requiring humor. There were a lot of these occasions. But there were no blank cards except two with sex themes—one that somebody had already written on and drawn a picture of a large, smiling penis with a mustache. Everything else required adaptation and compromise. You fitted your need for human expression into a category somebody else had thought up in advance and found words for, and then you bought the card, signed it, sealed it up, and tried to think it was just right.
There were lots of cards on which the people depicted were black people, although they were mostly tan-colored, clean-cut black people, men wearing chinos and oxford-cloth shirts, women smiling out at fields of dazzling spring flowers, wearing Peter Pan blouses and gold wedding bands, and children looking like they’d done very well on their science projects and were ready for Harvard a year early. They weren’t much like the people in Wal-Mart today. Walter wondered if Ginny Baxter might appreciate a card semi-personalized to her race. It was tempting to ask one of the blue-smocked sales associates if she or he would be offended if a white child gave their black child a friendship card in which the human beings portrayed were more or less black, too.
There was one, however, that said, “Have a Wonderful Trip!” A bright-red minivan full of waving, smiling, vaguely non-Caucasian children was depicted pulling out of the driveway of a big suburban house with a spreading leafy oak on a grassy green yard. Inside, the card showed lots of bright festive balloons rising in the clean air, and a message that said, “We won’t be happy ’til you’re back!” This was inappropriate. Louise would loathe the black characters and undoubtedly conclude it was racist. She would also hate the minivan and the house and the tree and the smiles and the balloons. Plus, these black people were obviously headed to [REDACTED], not Kenosha. There was simply nothing he could do that was right here, he realized. The task was beyond his abilities. Louise should’ve made her own card out of construction paper and put her own words on it. Only there hadn’t been time. Ginny was leaving right away. There wasn’t a chance to make a proper observance.
He had to choose one, though. That’s why he was here in this freezing Wal-Mart with his suit on. Louise never asked for much. He had to come through. When he first knew Betsy Montjoy, when he was new in [REDACTED] and fresh from law school, he used to give her cards that he’d “customized.” Walter Hobbes specials, she’d called them. “Sorry to hear you’ve been in the hospital.” Onto which he would Magic Marker “mental” in front of hospital. “It’s your birthday.” Onto which he would carefully print “60th.” Betsy loved to anticipate something funny, and would already be smiling as she sat in the car or across the table in Galatoire’s, awaiting him. These occasions usually prompted her to say he was “a nut,” or sometimes that he was “pretty wild and most likely dangerous,” or that he was “the cleverest man in the world.” None of which, he knew, was true. He was only Walter D. Hobbes from Yazoo City, a skinny, good-natured oil-and-gas lawyer who read the Wall Street Journal, voted Democrat, liked seersucker suits with black penny loafers and loud bow ties, and hoped that all this meant she would marry him.
From the rack, he plucked out a card that featured a big cartoon goose with its beak taped shut and its big goose eyes bulging in excitement. Inside, it said, “It goose without saying that I love you.” Little red hearts were floating all around, and the goose was again pictured, this time smiling without his beak taped. Louise could customize this one, Walter thought. In her knapsack she kept a box of colored pens. She could write in something clever on the drive out. Ginny would forget all about a card in two days, anyway. In all probability a goodbye card would never make it to Kenosha. But the gesture would. Louise would understand how true this was. There were really no words for what was happening to Ginny.
Tony De Patria, the dentist, was standing outside his little office—a Mediterranean-looking house where his parents had been young marrieds in the thirties, and which Tony had bought and converted into a single dentist’s practice. He was wearing his white dentist’s smock and was talking to Louise on the front steps. She was the last patient for the day. He didn’t want her waiting outside by herself. Tony was Walter’s dentist, too, and he was Betsy’s dentist. He might’ve been Mitch Daigle’s dentist for the difference it made. Tony De Patria was a tall, Adam’s-apple Yat who’d gone to L.S.U., practiced Catholic mysticism, read Kant, and liked to tell randy jokes when your mouth was full of metal stuff in the dentist’s chair. He didn’t tell these jokes to Louise, of course.
“I was just explaining the concept of phantom limbs to your young medical student here,” De Patria was saying. Louise had obviously explained to him that she intended to become a doctor, which was something she’d just made up. De Patria was holding open the car door for Louise to climb in with her night-guard container and a plastic bag containing new dental supplies. He smiled toward Louise a smile meant to indicate that there was a rich secret between them. He had daughters of his own he was crazy about. De Patria loved being a dentist and saw intricate connections between dentistry and the priestly vocation. He had a long schnoz and big Groucho eyebrows he could make caper and cavort to humorous effect.
“So are phantom limbs part of the general discussion of night guards and teeth grinding?” Walter ducked to see De Patria, the opened car door funnelling in more steaming tropical air.
“More toward the general discussion of loss,” De Patria said, and his eyebrows in fact darted up. He had an unexpected high-pitched voice and black silky hair on the back of his clever hands. Loss, divorce, disaster had obviously been part of their secret discussion.
Louise frowned at Walter from behind her tortoiseshell spectacles, in case he was about to say something dreadful. Louise had constructed her “look” herself: studious, possibly stern, loyal, and, in a way that only she understood, sexy.
De Patria talked in this stilted, mocking, pseudo-philosophical way at the end of every appointment, as if there were an important spiritual dimension to amalgam replacements or partial bridgework that couldn’t properly be entered upon employing normal dental lingo. De Patria, Walter felt, was the most fully engaged man he knew.
“Apropos of the season,” Walter said to the issue of loss.
“Apropos of the season,” De Patria agreed. “A loss becomes its own elemental presence.”
“How’re her teeth?” Walter said.
De Patria smiled. “Beautiful. She knows what to do.”
“I know what to do,” Louise said. She smiled garishly at her father and revealed the yellowed acrylic night guard snapped into place over her perfect incisors. “I have to wear this all my life now,” she said.
“Or at least until the tension subsides,” De Patria said with a grin of comprehension.
“We’re working on that,” Walter said.
“If we knew what went on between women and men we wouldn’t need dentists, would we?” De Patria said and closed the car door.
“He’s a creep,” Louise said immediately. De Patria was six inches away behind the window glass, still talking on about women and men.
“No, he’s not,” Walter said. “He’s a smart man, and he likes you.”
“Everybody’s smart,” Louise said, her night guard still bulging in her mouth, as Walter eased them away from the curb.
This is so queer!” Louise said menacingly. She had the Wal-Mart card open and was now appraising it from the passenger’s seat. “Why’s this stupid bird or whatever have tape on its stupid mouth? And what goes without saying? ‘I love you’? That’s revolting.” They were driving out St. Claude Avenue, a wide parched boulevard through an old, mostly black section of shut-down schools, closed appliance stores with their wrecked appliances set out on the sidewalk, closed and boarded Burger Kings and Hardee’s, distressed gas stations and shabby bars. Many of the passing ruined houses were still marked in the cruciform code of the National Guard from two years back. Few people were on the streets, and only every other traffic light seemed to be working.
Louise was officially mortified by his faulty card selection, which made Walter disheartened, since it meant she’d be resentful and irritable the rest of the night. The one night of the week that was theirs, and when he’d made nice plans.
“I thought you could use your Sharpies,” he said, “and customize it into something funny. Or sweet.”
“Like what? It’s stupid.” Louise promptly tore the goose card in half and then in fourths and then in eighths, and threw the pieces on the car floor. “Now I don’t have anything to give.”
“I think you still have your winning personality,” Walter said. “I’m sure that’ll make Ginny change her mind about leaving. Plus I risked my life going to Wal-Mart.”
“Fuck Wal-Mart. And you didn’t risk your life. That’s racist.” Louise turned away and crossed her legs tightly.
“How old are you?” Walter said, steering with caution through another lightless intersection. St. Claude was no place to have a wreck. People were in a bad mood here. And there were no police around to save you.
“Old enough to say ‘Fuck Wal-Mart,’ ” Louise said. “And a lot more.”
“You could try to think of something affectionate to say to Ginny.” Louise had already announced the address on Charbonnet Street before she saw the offending card. Otherwise she’d be balking. But they were going, card or no card.
“I’m not going without a gift. That goes without saying.” Louise had anger at her disposal now. It was a relatively new asset.
“Well, you’d better think of one fast. You might conclude this isn’t about a card. It’s a gesture.”
“What am I supposed to say?” Louise sniffed, as if she might possibly cry a little, or at least try to cry. This was not one of her assets—crying. Or her mother’s.
“O.K.,” Walter said. “Let’s see. How about ‘Dear Ginny, I’ll miss you when you’re gone.’ Or, ‘Dear Ginny, I hope your new life in Kenosha is wonderful.’ Or, ‘I hope I see you again.’ Those are pretty serviceable ones.”
“And they’re pathetic.”
Louise was grinding her teeth hard and did not have her device in.
“No, they’re not pathetic. They’re the things that shouldn’t go without saying. This is a part of your education.”
“Why did you get divorced?” Louise said blazingly. It had been a subject on other occasions.
“I don’t know,” Walter said, seeing a Charbonnet Street sign up ahead. It was a paper placard someone had nailed to a telephone pole in place of the regular sign, which had disappeared. Up and down the creosote pole were other placards advertising “Demolición de su [REDACTED].”
“Yes, you do. Was it your fault?” Louise said angrily.
“I’m sure it was.”
“Why did you do it, then? You were bad.”
“Nature never likes to be observed,” Walter said. “Though some things’d be better if it did. At least a little. Sometimes.”
Louise looked at him contemptuously, blinking behind her glasses, her fists clinched around her green night-guard case, her sack of dental supplies in her lap. Louise had gained some weight in the last month, and she had a pimple in the middle of her forehead that she was leaving unattended out of spite. The little torn-apart goose-card pieces were on her black school shoes.
“I don’t understand you,” she said, as though she was thirty and he was her boyfriend and they’d just broken up for the sixth time over some piece of silliness.
“I know,” Walter said, slowing for the careful turn to the left. “But that’ll have to do for now. It can be an interesting subject for you to think about.”
Charbonnet Street was a long street of wreckages. Where the floodwater had hurtled through, houses had been flattened, others moved off their foundations, others had their roofs floated away. Though others—the compact, sturdy brick ones—had simply been ruined in a way that left them seeming almost whole. Weeds flourished in lots with concrete slabs that once had supported houses. Two years ago, when he’d first come to see it all out here, a red fibreglass fishing boat had been preposterously hoisted and left on top of one house, and at another an ancient green Studebaker had been forced through the front door and into the living room by the passing water. Most of the houses still bore a gray dirt stain of the high-water line—some above the windows—and many retained the same crossed axes left by the rescuers. One house had “No Pig Found/9-1” scrawled on its front door. Another house simply said, “One dead here.”
Farther down the street, which stretched out toward the faraway lake and the hot white sky, a crew of young shirtless black men was gutting a house and loading the usable timbers and shingles onto a sagging pickup. But almost no one was living in any house now, or in the acres of streets in either direction, streets that looked like open fields. It was the Lower Nine. It was the land far below sea level, the submersible land that had always been poor and black but had been a place to live. Now that seemed finished. Louise’s school had made field trips to here, and written poems and essays all about it, painted desolate pictures, written letters to kids who were now in other cities, and in which the letter writers had predicted that everything would soon be restored and become even better. So far that hadn’t happened.
Louise was now sunk in silence. Possibly, Walter thought, she was trying out phrases she might want to say to Ginny when they got to where Ginny lived. Or, possibly the dread weight of destruction—mute, grammarless, still—had struck her speechless. Ahead, some white electric-utility men in white helmets were gathered around a light pole, connecting or disconnecting power to someplace. A couple of wrecked houses had white trailers in their front yards. But no one else was in sight. A brown-and-black spotted dog stood in the crumbled street and stared at Walter’s car and didn’t move as they eased past.
“This is horrible,” Louise said, as if she’d never seen any of it before. She put her nose to the window and ticked her glasses frames against the pane. There was nothing Walter felt that needed to be said. They had a reason to be here. Everything else did go without saying.
The street numbers that remained on the few standing houses were leading them toward the place they were going, which wasn’t much farther. “Ginny lives with her grandmother,” Louise said without inflection and breathed a small, soft cloud onto the window glass. She had become resolute again.
Ahead, in the next emptied-out block, Walter could see a collection of vehicles that none of the other houses or vacant lots had in front of them. Someone was visible there—a man hefting articles of some kind into a shiny black minivan. Not so different from the card at Wal-Mart.
“There’s Ginny,” Louise said, instantly buoyant. She knew everything she would say now.
A girl dressed in a uniform exactly like Louise’s waited on the opposite side of the street from where the man was loading cardboard boxes into the minivan, and where two more cars were parked at the curb. She was in front of what had once been a house but was now a weed-encircled concrete slab with a relic chain-link fence across what would’ve been a back yard, where an old-fashioned mangle iron sat marooned on its side. Everything around Ginny was open ground, though farther down Charbonnet Street three houses still stood in a row, and a steepled white church rose from two streets over. Gulls soared above everything, occasionally singing out. The square husk of a tan school building sat in the middle distance, surrounded by nothing. It was striking, Walter Hobbes thought. The character of this particular destruction was in fact quite diverse.
Louise was out of the car before it got properly stopped. Ginny, on the curb, saw her, knew her, but didn’t move or motion. Louise went straight up to her and started talking as if something official was going on. She took Ginny’s hand and waggled her arm until Ginny said something and smiled. Louise and Ginny looked alike in their school uniforms and tortoiseshell glasses and long straight hair.
Across the street from where the girls were, there was a remarkably new house, raised on clean wooden pillars to a man’s height above the ground, everything freshly painted hot blue with white trim. A smooth white concrete driveway had been laid, new azalea plantings were set in between the pillars, bright plastic geraniums in window boxes. A small elderly black woman stood on the elevated front porch, watching the man loading boxes and some suitcases into the minivan—all things he’d brought from inside the house. The van had [REDACTED] license plates.
For a moment, the man loading the van didn’t seem to see that anyone had arrived. But then he did and stopped loading and looked first at the two girls and then at the Tahoe and at Walter. He was a moderately sized, beige-skinned man with short, well-tended hair, wearing a tank top he’d sweated through in the heat, and Bermuda shorts he’d also sweated through, and black basketball sneakers with athletic socks. The man, who must’ve been Ginny’s father (though the skin was wrong), came across Charbonnet Street, rubbing his two hands together, as Walter climbed out into the radiant heat.
“Louise wanted to come say goodbye,” Walter said. Everything was permissible here, though no one but the girls knew each other.
“All right,” the man said. He was conceivably thirty-two and looked like he might, indeed, be a [REDACTED] man—mild, helpful, honest, dependable, yet fierce in some way a brown uniform could conceal. “I guess they know each other,” the man said.
“Louise is my daughter,” Walter said. “They’re in the same class.”
“O.K.,” the man said and looked at his own daughter. She and Louise were now locked in their own fast privacy. “Ginny,” he said, interrupting them. “This is Louise’s father.” Louise and Ginny stopped talking and looked at Walter. He smiled, and effected a small wave. 

A second woman had come out onto the front porch of the new blue house and was standing beside the tiny, elderly woman, looking across the newly sodded St. Augustine at Walter and Ginny’s father in the street. She was very dark-skinned and statuesque, with her hair in cornrows.
“I’m Walter Hobbes.” Walter extended his hand to be shaken.
“It’s Jerry,” Ginny’s father said and shook Walter’s hand with a not especially firm grip. He was softly muscular and fit in a way Walter realized he himself probably wasn’t. He had a smooth, almost featurelessly handsome face and a tiny gold stud in his left earlobe, something he didn’t wear to work. On his left biceps was a tattoo that said “Sheri” in curving green script.
The two of them, Walter and Ginny’s father, stood then and looked down the street of ruined houses and empty lots in the direction of the bayou levee and the soaring opal sky. This was the girls’ visit, and the girls were conducting it. Nothing came into Walter’s mind to say. Nothing on the subject of what it was like to be a [REDACTED] man, or the subject of being black, or about children or moving to Kenosha in the heat of an August day.
“What do you do?” Jerry said, as if something had just surprised him.
“Lawyer,” Walter said.
“O.K.,” Jerry said. “That’s good.”
“Is that your house?” Walter surveyed the bright-blue shotgun house with the two women on the porch watching him as if he might be someone who could cause trouble. Louise suddenly laughed and said, “Oh, you. You’re so funny.” The skinny spotted dog that had been in the street was now trotting past, headed out into what had become open fields.
Jerry glanced at the house, waved at the women, and smiled. “It’s my mother-in-law’s.”
“It’s nice,” Walter said.
“Oh yeah. Some people came along and just built it. Volunteers from someplace. Said it was a model house. It’s where her old house was ’til the storm took it. She just moved right in like nothing ever happened. She’s from way in the country. Nothing surprises her.”
“It must be odd to live out here in a new house with all this around you.”
Jerry looked at the house again, as if he hadn’t considered that. “We thought we’d move in with her, since our house got ruint. But they gave me a transfer up north, and I ain’t turning that down. My wife wants to stay on down here. But . . .” He didn’t finish.
“How does Ginny feel?”
“She’s ready to go.” Jerry ran his hand down his sweaty arm—the one with the tattoo. It was impossibly hot, and the sun felt as if it was shining straight down onto them. Walter’s suit jacket was wet through. “Kids don’t care,” Jerry said. “It’s a game to them.”
“That might be true,” Walter said.
“You know anything good about [REDACTED]?”
“It’s on a lake,” Walter said. “It gets cold. The Packers are from there.”
Jerry said, “I’m starting to be worried about all that cold.”
“They have seasons up there, though,” Walter said. “That’s a plus. We don’t really have those down here. You might learn to like it.”
“O.K.,” Jerry said, and paused to think about that idea. “I went in the Navy in [REDACTED], but that was in the summertime.”
And then they were silent and motionless again, while the girls conferred and walked a few yards farther down the street, their arms around each other’s waists. They had last things to impart, things even more private than before.
“So, how’re you doin’?” Jerry said. The two women on the scorching porch turned and walked in through the front door of the bright-blue house. The newly hung door slammed with a sucking sound. The air-conditioner at the back hummed smoothly—a noise Walter hadn’t noticed.
“How am I doing about what?” Walter said.
“Well.” Jerry smiled at him amiably. “Whatever you’re all about. Whatever’s up. You know? You hangin’ in there?”
Walter looked down the street at his daughter, in her blue uniform skirt and her kneesocks and her glasses. She had a lock of Ginny’s black hair in her hand—just the spidery tips—and was holding it, not pulling it, just holding it.
“I’m hangin’ in,” Walter said. “I guess that’s what I’m doing.”
“O.K., there you go,” Jerry said and kept smiling and then also looked down toward the girls—lost now in each other’s past and present.
Walter saw Jerry’s hand extended, ready to be shaken, he guessed, with the same not quite firm grip.
“Good to meet you,” Walter said, almost suddenly.
“I gotta get to loadin’ my shit before it gets dark. We’re leaving quick as I’m done.”
“Absolutely,” Walter said. “Have a safe trip.” Behind him his hand found the over-warm car door handle. He smiled at Jerry, whose last name he didn’t know. It might not be Baxter. There hadn’t been enough time for that.
“I’ll make it to [REDACTED] this evening,” Jerry said, starting to walk toward the shiny black van. “Be to [REDACTED] tomorrow. Be to work for the next day.”
“Great,” Walter said.
“If it ain’t snowin’.”
“It won’t be.”
“O.K., then,” Jerry said, continuing on across the new driveway toward the raised house, going for more boxes to load.
Walter looked up and down the street, as if he needed something new to capture his attention, something to occupy him for the time he would be here now. Far down Charbonnet, where the men in white helmets were working on the light pole, he saw a police car turn on to the street and begin slowly toward him. It would be best to get in the car, he thought, turn on the A.C., and wait for the children to finish their goodbyes. Better to attract less attention here.
In the chilled car, Louise sat with her legs crossed again and her hands in her lap and seemed entirely pleased with herself.
“Things worked out very well with Ginny,” she announced, watching the demolished neighborhood glide past her window. They were at a point where it was possible to see the city center, far away, as if across a desert floor or an ocean—the bank buildings, the new hotels, the office towers that had not been toppled by the hurricane. The city—the middle where Walter worked—always seemed to be where it shouldn’t when you saw it from a distance. The river deceived you. Once he had flown in from the west and the plane had banked so that for a moment he could see straight down the river’s sinuous course. And he’d thought, What a laughable mistake to put a city here. Nothing ever promised good for it.
“Did you do O.K. without a card?” Walter said. They were heading for their hilariously early dinner now. They would see Bill Murray later. Louise’s mother was across the lake on Mitch Daigle’s screen porch. He would be at work tomorrow. Things were coming back to regular.
“I did,” Louise said confidently. Hot sunlight sparkled through the windshield.
“It might be a good lesson to learn,” Walter said wearily. “You can put things best in your own words. It’s harder, but it’s better.”
“Whatever,” Louise said. “Or buy a better card. Or not go to Wal-Mart, which was my idea, which I’m sorry about. Or not have any friends.”
“All those things are possible,” Walter said.
“Do you think it’s also possible that I could move, too?” Louise said. “Pretty soon?” Life’s inevitable subtractions were ganging up, he understood. Loss becoming the presence they’d heard about.
“Would you like to move to [REDACTED]?” Walter said. “Where you could live on a glacial lake surrounded by conifer forests, and go to a country school and learn to canoe and memorize the legends of the Chippewa and all your classmates would say ‘Golly’ and ‘Jeez Louise’? Is that what you’re considering?” He looked at his daughter hopefully and reached across and touched her shoulder to indicate he wasn’t making fun of her, and that, indeed, many things were likely to become possible, and it wouldn’t hurt to think that way.
“No,” Louise said. “I was thinking about going to 4974616c79 or maybe to 4368696e61. And going alone. And not coming back. And never seeing anybody that I know today ever again.”
“Would that include me?” Walter said.
“And Mother, too, probably,” Louise said, and gave him a look of cold implacable certainty. A look that saw the future.
And for an instant, then, Walter experienced a sensation of something being about to happen around him. It wasn’t clear what. But a sensation of impendment. Neither good nor bad. Though it also occurred to him that if he could just pause in his thinking now, not follow his thoughts any further, just breathe, then this sensation would in all likelihood develop into nothing bad. So that he went on with driving back toward the center of the city, rising in the steamy distance of the late afternoon. He would make no more efforts to answer Louise’s childish questions about 4974616c79 and 4368696e61. No words were really the right words to answer with. In a day he’d forget all this. This was a smart child—Louise—but not smart beyond her years. She would forget many things, too.  

