THE REPTILE GARDEN
By Louise Erdrich


In the fall of 1972, my parents drove me to the University of North Dakota for my freshman year. Everything I needed was packed in a brand-new royal-blue aluminum trunk: a crazy-quilt afghan that my mother had crocheted for my bed, thirty dollars’ worth of new clothes, my Berlitz French Self-Teacher, the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius (a gift from my father), a framed photograph of my grandfather Mooshum, and a beaded leather tobacco pouch that he had owned ever since I could remember, and which he had casually handed to me as I left, the way old men give presents.
Other freshmen were already moving into their dormitory rooms when we arrived, with their parents helping haul. I saw boxes of paperbacks, stereo equipment, Dylan albums and varnished acoustic guitars, home-knitted afghans, none as brilliant as mine, Janis posters, Bowie posters, Day-Glo bedsheets, hacky sacks, stuffed bears. But as we carried my trunk up two flights of stairs terror invaded me. Although I was studying French because I dreamed of going to [REDACTED], I actually dreaded leaving home, and in the end my parents did not want me to leave, either. But this is how children are sacrificed into their futures: I had to go, and here I was. We walked back down the stairs. I was too numb to cry, but I watched my mother and father as they stood beside the car and waved. That moment is a still image; I can call it up as if it were a photograph. My father, so thin and athletic, looked almost frail with shock, while my mother, whose beauty was still remarkable, and who was known on the reservation for her silence and reserve, had left off her characteristic gravity. Her face and my father’s were naked with love. It wasn’t something that we talked about—love. But they allowed me this one clear look at it. It blazed from them. And then they left.
I think now that everything that was concentrated in that one look—the care they had taken in bringing me up, their patient lessons in every subject they knew how to teach, their wincing efforts to give me my freedom, the example they had set of fortitude in work—was what allowed me to survive.
The trunk was quickly emptied; my room was barely filled. Then, books to my chest, I curled up beneath the afghan and looked out the window. I understood right then that I would be spending most of my first semester in this position.
White girls at the time listened to Joni Mitchell, grew their hair long, smoked impatiently, frowned into their poetry notebooks, and pretended to fuck everything that moved. The other girls—Dakota, Chippewa, or mixed-blood like me—were less obvious on campus, and mainly very studious, although a couple of women swaggered around, furious in ribbon shirts, with American Indian Movement boyfriends. I didn’t really fit in with anybody. My roommate was a stocky blond girl from Wishek who was so dead set on becoming a nurse that she practiced bringing me things—a cup of water or, when I had a headache, aspirin. This was annoying, but we got along. I spent most of my time in the library, anyway. I hid out there and read my way through the poetry section until I hit on my favorites—all writers who had died young or gone crazy or disappeared into war. After Keats and Shelley and Byron, I skipped ahead to Lowell, Wright, Sexton, and Plath. Then I went back to the First World War, found Wilfred Owen, and wandered the campus dazed by “Strange Meeting,” thinking about his remarkable use of the verb “groined” and mumbling, “And by his smile I knew that sullen hall.” Next, I turned to Rimbaud, Baudelaire, Apollinaire. Searching for clues on how to make my way to [REDACTED], I floundered toward the American expatriates. And then one drizzly afternoon I found her—my muse, my model, my everything. Anaïs Nin.
My attraction was hard to explain—she was so artistically driven, so demure and yet so bold, and those swimming eyes! I was lost in soul-to-soul contact. I checked her out of the library again and again, but when the summer came I found I needed her more than ever. I had to take her home with me. Anaïs. I bought all her diaries—the boxed set—a huge investment. By the time I went back to college in the fall and moved into a beautiful old half-wrecked farmhouse off campus, I was soaked in the oils of my own manufactured delirium.
Like Anaïs, I reviewed every thought I had. All trivia became momentous, my faintest desire a raving hunger. I, too, kept careful diaries now. Each notebook had a title taken from a diary entry by Anaïs. That fall’s diary was called “Sprouting in the Void.” I wrote long letters to my brother, Joseph, who was studying biology at the University of Minnesota. He wrote short ones back. My third or fourth cousin Corwin, with whom I had been madly in love in fifth grade, had driven me back to college, and I’d read aloud from Anaïs’s diary all the way. He’d liked it only when she was having sex; otherwise, he said, she was “way up in her head.” But now he visited me whenever his band was in town. He played the fiddle with a mad energy. Our childhood romance was a joke between us. He was a pot dealer and supplied my friends.
I kept Anaïs with me at all times, but every now and then the differences in our lives bothered me. For instance, Anaïs had had servants to feed her and clean up after her. Even her debauched lovers had picked her clothing up off the floor; her dinner parties were full of social dangers and alarms, but when they were over she never had to do the dishes. As for me, I’d moved into a household of local poets and hippies, and everyone was dirty. I tried to be, too, but my standards of cleanliness kept me from truly entering into the spirit of the times. I had learned from my mother to keep my surroundings in order, my dishes washed, my towels laundered. The sagging clapboard house where we lived had one bathroom. Periodically, because nobody else ever did, I broke down and cleaned. It made me hate my friends to do this and resent them as I watched the filth build up again afterward, but I couldn’t help it. One night, I had grown so miserable about the bathroom that my fastidiousness overwhelmed my fury. It was past midnight, but I got a bucket, a scrubbing brush, and a box of something harsh-smelling called Soilax. I ripped an old towel into four pieces. I wet down the bathtub, the toilet, and the sink, and shook the Soilax evenly across every surface. With a putty knife, I began to scrape away the waxlike patches of grease, hair, soap, and scum, the petrified ropes of toothpaste, the shit, the common dirt.
It took me a couple of hours and the light in the bathroom seemed glaring when I quit, because I’d emptied the fixture of dead flies. But as I contemplated my work a few lines of poetry occurred to me:
My brain is like a fixture deep in dead
flies.
How I long for my thoughts to shine
clear!
Disperse your crumpled wings, college
students and professors of U.N.D.
Let your bodies blow like dust across the
prairies!
I jotted them down in the notebook that I carried in the hip pocket of my jeans, and then headed downstairs to the living room, where a party had just begun. It was a welcome-home party for a draft-dodging poet who’d walked back across the Canadian border and was going to go underground, as he kept saying, loudly. But, first, he was going to take a shower in my clean bathroom. I deserved to drink wine. I remember that the wine we had was cheap and very pink, and that when I was halfway through a glass of it Corwin took a piece of paper from a plain white envelope and tore off a few small squares, which I put in my mouth.
Anaïs had tried everything—she would have tried this! “Spanish dancer,” I cried to Corwin. She had been in love with her cousin. “Eduardo!” I said to Corwin, and kissed him. This all came back to me much later. At the time, I was not aware that I had taken lysergic acid, even after all its effects were upon me—the hideous malformations of my friends’ faces, the walls and corridors of sound, the whispered instructions from objects, the panicked fear that rendered me unable to communicate at all. I locked myself in my room, which I soon realized was a garden for lizards, geckos, garter snakes, and some exotics, like a hooded cobra, all of which passed underneath the mopboard and occasionally slid out of the light fixtures. I was in my room for two days, sleepless, watching reptiles, moving in and out of terror, unaware of who I was, unaware of how I’d come to be in the state I was in. I should have been hospitalized, I suppose, but my reclusiveness was so habitual and the household so chaotic that no one really noticed my absence.
On the third day, the reptiles were replaced by the occasional amphibian and I began to sense a reliable connection between one moment and the next, to feel with some security that I inhabited one body and one consciousness. The terror lessened to a milder sense of dread. I ate and drank. On the fourth day, I slept. I cried my heart out the fifth day and the sixth. And gradually I became again the person I had known as myself. But I was not the same, for I had found out what a slim rail I walked.
My fear kept returning. It was as though, in those awful days, I’d switched inner connections and now the fear seemed hardwired in me. I couldn’t stop shaking at the slightest unexpected movement. I endured panic attacks, momentary breaks with reality, daydreams so vivid they made me sick. On campus, I watched the well-fed, sane, secure, shiny-haired, and leather-belted students pass me by. I was now convinced that I would never be one of them, that I should leave and find my place among the less than healthy.
I got my Psych 1 professor (the course was nicknamed Nuts and Sluts) to help me find a position as a psychiatric aide. That winter, I packed a suitcase and took an empty, overheated Greyhound bus to the state mental hospital, where I trudged through blinding drifts of cold and was shown to a room in a staff dormitory.
My room was small, the walls a deep pink. I had a single bed with an Oriental-print spread—pagodas, winding streams, bent willows. There was a mirror, a shiny red-brown bureau, a tiny refrigerator on a wooden table, a straight-backed blue chair. I took the refrigerator off the table and made myself a desk. I’d met none of the other aides yet. There were rules against noise, against music, because the people on the night shift slept all day. My shift would begin at 6 a.m. So I showered down the hall and dried my hair. I laid my uniform out on the chair, a white rayon dress with deep pockets, panty hose, thick-soled nurse’s shoes, which I’d bought at J. C. Penney. In the room above me, that night, a couple made love over and over. The springs creaked, increasing speed, until there was a crescendo, silence. Then laughter. Each session lasted about ten minutes.
I woke in time to shut off the alarm just before it rang. I boiled water in my little green hot pot and made a cup of instant coffee. It was still dark outside. I put on a long black coat I’d bought at Goodwill, and walked across the frozen lawn to the ward where I was assigned. The nurse coming on duty introduced herself as Mrs. L., because, she said, her actual name was long, Polish, and unpronounceable. She was tall, broad, and already looked tired. She wore a green cardigan over her uniform and a nurse’s cap pinned to her fluffy black hair. She was drinking coffee and eating a glazed doughnut from a paper bag. “You’re welcome to share this with me,” she offered in a dull voice. She turned to one of the other aides coming on and said that she’d had a rough night. Her little boy was sick. She and the aide knew each other well, and the talk swirled back and forth for a few minutes.
“What am I supposed to do?” I asked in a too bright, nervous voice. “Can you give me something to do?”
“Listen to this.” Mrs. L. laughed. “Don’t worry, there’s plenty. None of the patients are up yet.”
“Except [REDACTED],” the nurse who was going off duty said. “[REDACTED]’s always up.”
I walked out of the office into the hall, which opened onto a huge square room with green and black linoleum tiles. The walls were a paler green. The curtainless windows were rectangles of electric-blue sky that turned to gray and then normal daylight as the patients rose and slowly, in their thin striped cotton robes, began wandering down the corridor that led into the common room. Everyone looked the same at first—men and women, young and old. Mrs. L. handed out medications in small paper cups, and said to me, pointing, “Go with [REDACTED] there and make sure he takes it.”
So I went with [REDACTED], the night owl, an elderly—no, really old—man with long arms and the rope-muscled body of a farmer who has worked so hard that he will now live forever, or, at least, beyond the reach of his mind. His tan was permanent, burned into the lower half of his face, his hands, and a V of leather at his neck. He was already dressed neatly, in clean brown pants and a frayed but ironed plaid shirt. He liked to walk. He popped the pills down without missing a step. I watched [REDACTED] a lot that first day, because I couldn’t believe that he would keep it up, but he didn’t stop for more than a breath, filling up on food quickly at the designated times, then strolling up and down the corridors, crisscrossing the common room, in and out of every bedroom. To everyone he met, he nodded and said, “I’ll slaughter them all.” The patients answered, “Shut up.” The staff didn’t seem to hear.
The first day’s schedule became routine. I woke early to record my dreams and sensations, then I dressed, putting a pen and a small notebook in my pocket, plus a miniature French dictionary I’d sent away for. I noted everything, jotted quickly in a stall on bathroom breaks. At breakfast time, I walked through the underground steam tunnels to the dining room. I ate with the patients—pushed my tray along the line and waited to see what landed on it. Farina, cold toast, a pat of butter, a carton of milk, juice if I was early enough, and coffee. There was always coffee, endless transparent acid in stained and sterilized Melmac cups. Ravenous and forgetful, I ate what they gave me, no matter what. I did the same at lunch. Mashed turnips. Macaroni and meat sauce. Extra bread, extra butter. I began to think of food all day. Food took up too much of my diary. There was nothing new to say about it in English, so I described it in French. Soon there was nothing new to say about it in either language.
I was assigned to an open ward. The patients could sign themselves out if they wanted to walk the ice-blasted grounds. I spent a lot of time making and unmaking beds. Sometimes it was my job to sit with the patients who did not want to go anywhere. If they didn’t want to talk, I wrote. Nobody cared—I said that I was training to be a psychoanalyst. I filled a thirty-nine-cent notebook every few days. I knew all the patients’ routines, their delusions, the places where their records were scratched and the sounds repeated. More than anything else, I realized, it had to be boring to be crazy, to think the same sequence of thoughts and come up with the same set of bizarre conclusions, to voice those conclusions using the same words, several times an hour, day in and day out. It was hard to get people off their tracks. Because I was new, I kept trying.
One morning, Mrs. L. was in her office, admitting a new patient, a young woman who sat with her back to the door. I paused as I was passing. There was something about the woman—I didn’t know what, but I felt it immediately. A heat. She was wearing a black dress. When she swivelled in her chair and smiled at me, I saw that her eyes were black, too, and her lips very red. Her skin was pallid, shiny, as though she had a fever. Her blond hair, maybe dyed, was greasy and dull. She was about my age. Her teeth had thin spaces between them, which made her look frightening, predatory, like an animal.
“This is Nonette,” Mrs. L. said.
I felt a small electric jolt and said, “Is that French?” That was it—she looked French.
The new patient didn’t answer, but looked at me steadily, her smile becoming a false, unpleasant leer.
Mrs. L. pursed her lips and filled in her forms. “Nonette can sleep in No. 20. Here’s the linen key. Why don’t you help her settle in?”
“Fetch my things along,” Nonette ordered.
“Evelina’s not a bellhop,” Mrs. L. said.
“That’s all right.” I lugged one of Nonette’s suitcases down the corridor. She smiled in an underhanded way and dropped the other suitcase once we were out of Mrs. L.’s sight. She waited while I carried it to her room, and watched as I took her sheets, a pillowcase, a heavy blanket, and a thin cotton waffle-weave spread from the linen closet. Her room was one of the nicer ones, with only two roommates. It had built-in wooden furniture, not flimsy tin dressers, and the bed was solid. It even had all four casters on the legs.
“What a fucking dump,” Nonette said.
I said nothing. I was supposed to be pleasant.
Nonette’s mouth twisted open in scorn. I left.
The next day, she was extremely friendly to me. When I walked onto the ward, she immediately grabbed my hand, as though we’d been interrupted the day before while having some wonderful conversation, and she tugged me toward the freezing glassed-in porch, where patients went to talk privately. I sat down beside her in an aluminum lawn chair. I was wearing a sweater. She had on a thin cotton button-down shirt, with a necktie and men’s chino pants. Her shoes were feminine kitten heels. Her hair was slicked back. She was an odd mixture of elements: she looked depressed but also—it could not be denied—chic. Today she wore no makeup except black eyeliner, and her face was prettier, more harmonious in the subdued light.
“What do you want to talk about?” I said.
“I wanted to talk to someone my age, not those jerks, shrinks, whatever. You’re not bad-looking, either. That helps. I want to talk about what’s bothering me. I came to get well, didn’t I? So I want to talk about how really, truly sick I am. I’ve talked about it, I know I have, but I haven’t really told it.”
“O.K., go ahead.”
She paused for a moment, then she leaned toward me, and when she did her whole face sharpened.
“If I could just be born over,” she said, “I’d be born neutral. Woman or man—that’s not what I mean. I wouldn’t have a sex drive. I wouldn’t care about it, need it, or anything. It’s just a problem, the things you do that you hate yourself for afterward. Like take when I was nine years old, when I had it first. He was a relative, a cousin, living with us for the summer.”
“Where?” I asked.
“Not in stupid [REDACTED],” she answered. “Anyway, he comes in without knocking and kneels by my bed. He uncovers me and starts giving it to me with his mouth. And I’m, like, at first I don’t know what—ashamed of it. I could get a hook for my door. I could tell on him. I don’t, though, because I get so I want it. He strips naked. He teaches me how to jerk him off. And then he does it to me again.
“I’m a little girl, right? I don’t even wash very well. Next time, he brings along a washcloth and cleans me first. We have a ritual. Where are my mother and father? They sleep at the other end of the hall, with the fan going in their room. And my cousin is a fucking Eagle Scout! Is he trying for a fucking merit badge? Anyway, he goes home. I already feel different. I am different. There is a smell on me, sex, that no one else in my schoolroom has. I look at the older boys. I know what’s coming. I go searching for it.” She laughed suddenly, drawing away. “Look at you. You’re, like, fascinated.”
She stared out the window. “I’m not French,” she said gently. “I’m fucked up. I’m in a state hospital. I think I want a sex-change operation. I want to be a man so I won’t have to put up with this shit.”
“I’m not giving you shit.”
Her mouth gaped mockingly. “Oh, look at you, trying to be tough. You’re not tough. You’re, like, a little college girl, right? Who the hell cares? I’m from the university, too. I have a Ph.D. Pretty Hot Dick. I’m a man, posing as a woman. You want proof?” Then her face closed in, bored. “I’m just kidding. Get the fuck away from me.”
“I’m sorry,” I said to her. “You’re really beautiful.”
She wouldn’t say anything, wouldn’t look at me now.
“You’re an Indian or something, aren’t you?” she mumbled. “That’s cool.”
I went back to the common room and played gin rummy with [REDACTED], who couldn’t concentrate. I didn’t think he was taking all his medication, but if he’d discovered a way to hide it he was pretty slick.
A policeman was standing in the office the next morning, drinking a cup of coffee with Mrs. L. He’d just brought [REDACTED] back. The day before, [REDACTED] had marched out of town. He took a narrow road that ran west, and was discovered twenty miles away as he crawled into a farmyard. He had fallen and bloodied the side of his head. He was sleeping now, sedated, and it was not until late afternoon that he rose and came out to sit in the lounge, the side of his head swollen and bandaged. I sat down next to him.
“I hear you had a bad day.” These words popped out of my mouth. I was curious. Perhaps it was cruel to be so curious. I asked about the voices he heard—if they were hard on him.
He straightened, shrugged a little. He was wearing a yellow shirt that looked almost new. He ran a hand up his face gently, exploring the damage with his fingers. Then he turned to me, his eyes moist and red. “I did it because they told me—” he started, but he choked on what he might have said and his voice was a crow’s croak. He rubbed his face with a fumbling hand and closed his eyes. And then I saw, around the edges of his face, in the balled musculature and the set of his eyes and jaw, that he was in a waking dream. He raised his arms. He recoiled. He sat down in a chair and began taking apart some invisible thing in his lap. Then his hands froze and he lifted his head, gazed off to the side in a fugue of stillness, listening.
Nonette and I were sitting on the frigid sunporch. She had told the story about being raped by her cousin, the Eagle Scout, to every nurse, aide, doctor, and patient available. It was just a conversation opener. Here, of course, it was not supposed to matter whether or not the story was true—the important thing was her need to tell it. I had been trained to believe that. Nonette was wearing a men’s black suit and a Charlie Chaplin-style black bowler that were too big for her and comically masculine. Suddenly she reached out and took my face in her palms, leaned toward me, and kissed me. I didn’t resist at all. It didn’t even occur to me to resist. All I thought was, How shall I describe this in my diary? There was nothing strange about it, not then, or at least it was no stranger than the other occasions on which I’d kissed someone for the first time. There was the same thrill, the same hush of attraction and mutual daring. Only she was supposed to be crazy, I was supposed to not be crazy, and we were women.
“That was nice.” She drew back into her chair, crooked one leg up, and hugged her knee. She stared at me, assessing my reaction. I was suddenly and completely charged with an electrifying embarrassment. I forced myself to rise, and stumbled, awkward and big, to the door of the sunporch and the entrance to the ward. She was still watching, smiling now.
Soon the dinner call came, but she was too tired to eat. “I’m sick,” she said as she walked past me. “I’m going to bed.”
“Are you O.K.?” I asked. She ignored me.
Later, I was sent down the ward to check on her. She had slid underneath the covers with all her clothes on. I could see her shoes sticking out at the end of the bed. I stood for a long time, watching, hoping that she would move.
I had escorted a patient to the beauty parlor late one morning, and was returning alone through the underground steam tunnels when she was suddenly there, walking toward me with no escort.
“I have a pass.” Nonette grinned, stopping when we were face to face.
There was no one else in the tunnel, which was whitewashed and warm, lit by low-wattage bulbs, and branched off into small closets and locked chambers full of brooms and mops and cleaning solutions. Her face was clear and bright, her hair a rumpled silver in the odd light, her eyes calm and free of makeup. She was as beautiful as someone in a foreign movie, a book, or a catalogue of strange, expensive clothes. Her eyes were dark, with green in them, brown, every color. I could almost taste her mouth again, fresh with toothpaste. She was wearing jeans, a white sweatshirt, sneakers, and gym socks. I was wearing my cheap scratchy white uniform with tucks and a front zipper. She put her fingers on the tongue of the zipper at my throat.
“Are you wearing a slip?” she said.
I took her hand and held it around the wrist, my thumb at her pulse.
“Stop, stop.” She pretended to resist, but her voice was soft. “Here.” She pulled me, but pulled me only because I did not let go of her wrist. I followed her around a corner, then through a door, and we were right in the middle of the pipes, some wrapped with powdery bandages of asbestos, some smooth, boiling copper conduits. My cap snagged, and I let it fall. We ducked under a nest of pipes and walked down some stone steps to the other side, a kind of landing, completely enclosed. Behind us there was a wall of rough flagstone that smelled of dirt, of fields in summer with the sun beating down after a heavy rain. The heat brought out the smell.
“Let’s sit down,” she said. “I’d like to get you stoned, but I don’t have anything.”
I was still holding her wrist. There was barely room to stand. The pipes grazed the tops of our heads. We sat down together. I was shaking, but she was very gentle, not like she’d been the first day. And, anyway, it wasn’t how I’d thought it would be. After the first few minutes, there was nothing frightening at all about kissing her or touching her. It was familiar, entirely familiar, much more so than if I’d been touching a boy for the first time. Our bodies were the same, and when I touched her I knew what she was feeling, just as she knew when touching me—it seemed both normal and unbearable. We didn’t take our clothes off, just felt each other lightly on the arm and throat and kissed. Her face was soft, like flower petals.
She said, “That’s enough.” Any longer and we’d have been missed.
As I walked back down the corridors and onto the ward, I began to imagine our story. Nonette had come here in obvious need, and I was here for her. I had come here not knowing that she was what, or who, I’d always needed. And she was here for me. A week, maybe three, and she would be all right. I’d leave with her, go to Fargo or [REDACTED] or wherever. She would come with me.
ADVERTISEMENT
“Nonette said you asked for a patient visit.” Mrs. L. sat behind her desk, a stack of forms beneath her spread hands.
“Yes,” I said, though I hadn’t. But I was smiling, slowly blooming at the idea. Nonette’s idea.
“We like to encourage our aides to work with the patients during off-duty hours, and I don’t see anything wrong with it, as long as you know that she presented here with some real problems.”
“I know that. I’ve talked to her about them.”
“Good.”
Mrs. L. waited, watching me a little too carefully. I was not supposed to know a whole lot about each patient’s personal history, at least not more than the patient wanted me to know.
“Look,” I said, “she told me about her cousin forcing himself on her. I know that she came here out of control, though I still don’t know exactly what precipitated it. I don’t know what she’s dealing with at home, at school, or if she’s going back there. The thing is, I really like Nonette. I’m not doing this because I feel sorry for her.”
Mrs. L. bit her lip. “Your motives are good, I know that. But you’ve got to understand: she’s on lithium, and we’re adjusting her dosage. She’s depressive, and then she has her manic spells.”
“We’re just going to make a batch of cookies.”
Mrs. L. smiled approvingly and signed the pass.
There was a small kitchen in the basement of the aides’ residence, just one room with a stove and some cupboards, a fridge, an old wooden table painted white, and six vinyl chairs. Nonette and I made molasses cookies, leaving them soft in the middle, then took them upstairs to my room. The cookies were still warm as we ate them, crumb by crumb, sitting on my bed. We drank cold milk. Later, we took our clothes off. It wasn’t strange at all, the covers pulled back, the willows bending over streams and bridges. She had small breasts, pointed, the nipples round and slightly chapped because she didn’t wear a bra beneath her men’s shirts.
She was older than I was by two years and knew so much more. She kneeled over me and spread her legs with a clinical cool, then began to laugh. We laughed at everything I’d never done, and then we did it.
Just before nine-o’clock curfew, I walked Nonette back to the ward, a bag of cookies in one hand.
“Do you think about, you know,” I finally asked her, at the door.
“Do I think about what?”
Nonette looked at me, her face bland and empty, smiling. She looked like a girl in a ski commercial. Healthy. In my room, when she came, she’d made me look into her eyes, deep with pleasured shock. Now those eyes were scary cheerleader eyes.
“Do I think about what?” she said again.
I looked down at my boots. About what’s going to happen to us, I wanted to say. But I didn’t. The night was so cold and dark that the snow made squeaking noises as it settled in drifts around the big, square yard. I could hear the trees, tall black pines, cracking. I stood there as Nonette walked into the hospital, as the glass-and-steel doors shut behind her with that movie-ending sound of metal catching, holding fast. The locks were automatic, but I tried them once, anyway, as she disappeared down the bright corridor.
“I’m going home next week,” Nonette said one morning. “My parents decided it was O.K.”
Her parents? Why hadn’t I ever seen them? A sudden burst of energy pulsed from the center of my chest. I clapped my hands fast, making sounds to divert the awful feeling, and then I wrung them in the air, shedding the pain like drops of water.
Nonette looked at me and shook her head. “Are you all right?”
I caught my breath, let it out slowly. “Have they been down to visit?”
“Sure. You work days. They drive down in the early evening.”
“Next week, next week.”
My face stretched into a stupid smile, and she twinkled back. She’s not O.K., I thought. She’s crazier than I am if she can deny this. She must be. I tore my gaze away and felt a deep body flush, as though my ribs were glowing hot, like the bars of a grill. My mind spun a series of wild questions: If she weren’t crazy . . . if this weren’t out of the ordinary . . . if it couldn’t be helped . . . if I were wrong . . . if people could see . . . if she left here . . . if it meant nothing to her . . . if she didn’t care about me at all . . . I stepped away from her. She had a lovely face, so gentle, a pretty face. A prom-queen face. She was wearing a blue sweater, a plaid skirt, and knee-high stockings—ultra-normal [REDACTED] catalogue clothes—now that she was well.
“Come and see me,” she said.
“Sure! I will!”
She didn’t mean it—of course she didn’t. I was part of what she thought of as her illness, a symptom of which she believed she had been cured. She, on the other hand, was what I was looking for. I could hardly breathe for wanting her. I walked away with my hands shaking in the scratchy cloth of my pockets. I kept going, without punching out, and walked back down the corridors of the hospital, out the doors, and across the snowy central lawn.
I called in sick the next morning and the morning after that. Two days went by. I couldn’t make it to the telephone anymore. I could barely force myself to get up and walk to the bathroom. Once I was in bed again, a kind of black-hole gravity held me there. Acid flowed back into my brain, and I could see creatures moving in the Chinese landscape of my bedspread. I threw it on the floor. Gray curtains came down. I put my grandfather’s tobacco pouch under my pillow and tried to remember what he said when he prayed. I couldn’t think of a single word. The air was painful. I breathed pain in and out, and its residue clung to my lungs like tar, making each breath a little more difficult.
A week went by, and then Mrs. L. came to the door and called, “Can I come in? Can you answer?” I tried. I opened my mouth. Nothing came out. It was such a peculiar feeling that I started to laugh. But there was no sound. I went to sleep again, slept and slept, and, the next time I woke, Mrs. L. was in the room, sitting beside my bed, and she was using the voice she used with the others.
“We’re going to move you,” she said. “We’ve called your mother.”
Which was how I ended up in Nonette’s bed after all.
I was sitting on the cracked green plastic sofa in the common room, wearing my nurse’s shoes, only now no uniform to go with them, just baggy jeans and a droopy brown sweater. I’d talked to my mother on the phone and summoned up the energy to convince her that I was all right, that I only needed a rest and would be back in school in time for the next quarter. I’d told my mother that I would use this voluntary commitment as a rest period, but the fact was I was afraid, afraid of losing my observer, the self who told me what to do. My consciousness was fragile ground now, as thin as forming ice. Every morning, when I opened my eyes and experienced my first thought, I was flooded with relief. The I was still there. If it went, there would be only gravity to guide me.
ADVERTISEMENT
[REDACTED] walked into the common room and saw me sitting on the sofa. He came over, in his careful and dignified way, and stood before me. He was wearing his yellow shirt, along with a rust-colored jacket, a striped tie of rich burgundy silk, and gray woollen slacks: his best clothes. His shirt had French cuffs. Instead of cufflinks, he had used safety pins.
“You should have cufflinks,” I muttered.
“I’ll slaughter them all,” he said.
“Shut up,” I answered.
I lay there for days and more days. I did not get out of bed. I did not read Anaïs Nin—she couldn’t possibly help me now. I was past all that, and, anyway, she was the one who had got me into trouble by providing the treacherous paradigm of a life that I was too backward or provincial or reservation-bound to pull off. I no longer wanted adventure. The thought of [REDACTED] was a burden. I would never see the back of Notre-Dame, and the coffee I drank would always be transparent.
My mother and father came down to see me every weekend. All I did when they visited was cry in sympathy for their worry over me, or fall asleep, but after they left I missed them. I thought about how I had grown up with the certainty of my parents’ love, and how rare a thing that was, and how unaccountable and shameful my breakdown was, as was the fact that I had just loved a woman to the point of literal madness. I was just a nothing, half-crazy, half-drugged half Chippewa.
One day, Corwin came to see me.
I was surprised but not embarrassed. He’d learned where I was from my aunt. He remembered the acid he’d fed me, and he felt that he should look me up. He was dressed in a long black riding duster, with a strange orange hunting cap pulled down over his eyes. Under the duster, he was carrying a violin case.
“Sit down.”
I gestured with a cigarette. I tried to look bored, but actually I was excited to see him.
Corwin sat in a plastic armchair and rested the violin case on his lap. His face was long, his eyes dark and Indian. He had a short scraggle of unmowed beard. His ponytail flowed out from under his cap. 

“So,” he said.
“So,” I said.
We nodded for a while, like two sages on a hill. Then he opened the case and picked up his fiddle. As he tuned it—an unfamiliar sound—the other patients began to wander out of their rooms and down the corridor. The nurses ventured from their station and stood, arms folded, chewing gum. Their mouths stopped moving when Corwin began to play, and some of the patients sat down, right where they were, a couple of them on the floor, as if the music had cut through the room like a scythe.
After the first run of notes, the music gathered. Corwin played a slow and pretty tune that made people’s eyes blur. [REDACTED] stood stiff and tall, rooted in the center of the linoleum. Others swayed or looked as if they might weep, but that changed quickly as Corwin picked up the tempo and plucked out a lively Red River jig. At this point, [REDACTED] began to walk around and around the room, faster and faster. The music ticked along in a jerky way, and then something monstrous happened. All the sounds merged for a moment in the belly of the violin and filled the room with distress. Alarm struck us. [REDACTED] stopped walking and backed up flat against the wall. But Corwin drew some note out of the chaos in his hands, and then drew it farther up and up, until it was unbearable, but at the very point where it might have become a shriek that note changed a fraction and broke into the most lucid sweetness.
[REDACTED] slid down the wall, his hand over his heart as if he were taking a pledge. His head slumped onto his chest. The rest of us sat down, too. Calm rained upon us, and a strange peace slowed our hearts. The playing went on in a penetrating, lovely way. I don’t know how long it lasted. I don’t know when or if it ever really ended. [REDACTED] had fallen to the floor. A nurse plodded over to check his pulse. The violin was the only thing in the world, and in that music there was dark assurance. The music understood, and it would be there whether we stayed in pain or regained our sanity, which was also painful. I was small. I was whole. Nothing mattered.
When the music was just reverberations, I stood up. The nurse was checking her watch and frowning first at it, then down at [REDACTED], then at her watch again. I stood next to Corwin as he carefully replaced his violin in its case and snapped the latches down. I looked at my cousin and he looked at me—he gave me his wicked, shy grin and pointed his lips in a kiss, toward the door.
“I can’t leave here,” I said.
And I walked out of that place.
When I left the hospital with Corwin, I took my purse and my diary and nothing else. I left behind Anaïs—the entire boxed set, annotated. I didn’t know if I could actually bear leaving the safety of the hospital, but I just kept going until we reached Corwin’s car. I’d lost a lot of weight and hardly exercised, so I was dizzy and had to ask Corwin to stop the car once so that I could puke. He told me that he had stopped selling drugs. He was straight now, he said, which gave me an opening.
“Well, I’m not. I’m a lesbian,” I told him.
He said that I couldn’t be. I didn’t dress like one.
“Like you’d know,” I said.
He said that he did know. He’d been around. “They dress like me, aaaay.”
We drove along quietly for a while.
“I’m really sorry that I gave you that acid, man,” he said. “Did it, you know, change your head around?”
“You mean did it make me a lesbian?”
He nodded.
“I don’t think so.”
We drove some more. We’d known each other stoned, sick, and drunk. We’d beaten each other up in Catholic school. So the silence between us was comfortable, even a relief. I looked out the car window. The world was beautiful all along the road. The fields were great mirrors of melted water. And the light was clear and golden, blazing on the slick surfaces. I started to feel better. It was as if telling my news to someone I’d known my whole life had lifted a great weight from me. Every morning in the hospital, I’d awakened and felt normal and then remembered about Nonette. Corwin’s taking my confession in stride removed some of the dark glamour from my feelings.
“Do you actually know any lesbians?” I asked.
“I’ve played in bars all over, but I don’t know any just to talk to,” he said. Then, a moment later, “Or any I could set you up with, if that’s what you want.”
A heated flush rose along my collarbone.
“Hey,” Corwin said after a while, “you don’t have to go anywhere with this thing just yet. Take it easy.”
I didn’t answer, but after a while I felt happier, thinking that he was right.
As we passed onto the reservation, I saw that the ditches were burning. Fires had been set to clear the spring stubble, and a thin glaze of smoke hung over the road in a steady cloud. After Corwin dropped me off, I sat outside with my grandfather Mooshum, drinking cool water from tall galvanized water cans. It occurred to me that I’d be all right. I didn’t have to do anything, not right away. I didn’t even have to record my sensations in a diary. I could just sit with Mooshum, drinking water. As the sun went down, light shot through the smoke and turned the air around us a dark gold that cast an unsettling radiance on the trees and houses. Mooshum and I watched as the light began to recede. It was very cold, but still we sat until the darkness had a brown edge to it, and my mother came to the door, expressing no surprise at seeing me there.
“Come in here, you two,” she said, her voice gentle.  

