YEAR’S END
By Jhumpa Lahiri

I did not attend my father’s wedding. I did not even know there had been a wedding until my father called early one Sunday during my final year at Swarthmore. I was roused from sleep by a pounding on my door, followed by the voice of one of my hallmates saying my last name. I knew before answering that it was my father; there was no one else who would have called me before nine. My father had always been an early riser, believing that the hours between five and seven were the most profitable part of the day. He would use that time to read the newspaper and then go for a walk, along Marine Drive when we lived in [REDACTED] and on the quiet roads of our town on the North Shore of [REDACTED], where we moved when I was sixteen, after my mother got sick. As much as he used to encourage my mother and me to join him, I knew he preferred being alone. Things were different now, of course; those solitary hours he’d once savored had become a prison for him, a commonplace. I knew that he no longer bothered to go for walks and that since my mother’s death he hardly slept at all. I had not spoken to my father in several weeks. He had been in Calcutta, visiting my grandparents, all four of whom were still alive, and when I picked up the phone, left for me hanging upside down by its cord, I expected him to say only that he had returned safely, not that I now had a stepmother and two stepsisters.
“I must tell you something that will upset you,” he began, and I wondered if perhaps one of my grandparents had fallen ill, if my mother’s parents, in particular, could no longer endure the loss of their only daughter at the age of forty-two. It had been the hardest thing, in those first months after she was gone: having to go to Calcutta with my father and enter the home where my mother had been a girl, having to see the man and woman who had raised her, who had known her and loved her long before she had a husband and a son. My grandparents had already lived in a state of mild mourning since 1962, when my parents got married and moved away. My father’s first job was in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], which was where I was born, three years later. When I was nine, we went back to 496e646961, to [REDACTED]. Occasionally, my mother would return to them, like Persephone in the myth, temporarily filling up and brightening the rooms, scattering her creams and powders on the dressing table, sleeping in the room where she’d been small. After we called my grandparents to tell them my mother was dead, they had held on to the hope that it was only a matter of time, and that she would board a plane and walk through the door once again. When my father and I entered the house, my grandmother asked if my mother was still in the taxi that had already driven away, this in spite of the fact that a photograph of my mother, larger than life and draped with a tuberose garland, hung on their living-room wall. “She’s not with us, Didun,” I said, and it was only then that both my grandparents broke down, grieving freshly for my mother as neither my father nor I had done. Being with her through her illness day after day had denied us that privilege.
But my grandparents were fine, my father reported now. They missed me and sent their love, he said, and then he told me about Chitra. She had lost her spouse two years ago, not to cancer but to encephalitis. Chitra was a schoolteacher and, at thirty-five, nearly twenty years younger than my father. Her daughters were seven and ten. He offered these details as if responding diligently to questions I was not asking. “I don’t ask you to care for her, even to like her,” my father said. “You are a grown man, you have no need for her in your life as I do. I only ask, eventually, that you understand my decision.” It was clear to me that he had prepared himself for my outrage—harsh words, accusations, the slamming down of the phone. But no turbulent emotion passed through me as he spoke, only a diluted version of the nauseous sensation that had taken hold the day that I learned my mother was dying, a sensation that had dropped anchor in me and never fully left.
“Is she there with you?” I asked. “Would you like me to say something?” I said this more as a challenge than out of politeness, not entirely believing him. Since my mother’s death, I frequently doubted things my father said in the course of our telephone conversations: that he had eaten dinner on any given night, for example, and not simply polished off another can of almonds and a few Johnnie Walkers in front of the television. “They arrive in two weeks. You will see them when you come home for Christmas,” my father said, adding, “Her English is not so good.”
“Worse than my Bengali?”
“Possibly. She will pick it up, of course.”
I didn’t say what came to my lips—that my mother had learned English as a girl, that she’d had no need to pick it up in [REDACTED].
“The girls are better at it,” my father continued. “They’ve gone to English-medium schools. I’ve enrolled them in their grades to start in January.”
He had known Chitra just a few weeks, had met her only twice before their marriage. It was a registry wedding, followed by a small dinner at a hotel. “The whole thing was arranged by relatives,” he explained, in a way that suggested that he was not to blame. This remark upset me more than anything my father had said so far. My father was not a malleable man, and I knew that no one would have dared to find him a new wife unless he had requested it.
“I was tired, Kaushik,” he said. “Tired of coming home to an empty house every night.”
I didn’t know which was worse—the idea of my father’s remarrying for love or of his actively seeking out a stranger for companionship. My parents had had an arranged marriage, but there was a touch of romance about it, too, my father seeing my mother for the first time at a wedding and being so attracted that he had asked, the following week, for her hand. They had always been affectionate with each other, but it wasn’t until her illness that he seemed fully, recklessly, to fall in love with her, so that I was witness to a courtship that ought to have faded before I was born. He doted on her then, arriving home at our [REDACTED] flat with flowers, lingering in bed with her in the mornings, going in late to work, wanting to be alone with her to the point where I, a teen-ager, felt in the way. “I thought,” he continued, “since your bedroom is a good size, of putting the girls together there. Would you mind terribly staying in the guest room when you visit, Kaushik? Most of your things are with you now anyway. It is just a matter of where to sleep. But please tell me if you mind.” He seemed more concerned about my reaction to a new room than the fact that I had just acquired a new family.
“It’s fine.”
“You are being honest?”
“I said I don’t mind.”
I returned to my dorm room. There was a girl in my bed that morning; she had remained asleep as I stumbled barefoot into the hallway to answer the phone. Now she was lying on her stomach, a pen in her hand, finishing a crossword I’d abandoned. Her name was Jessica, and I’d met her in my Spanish class.
“Who was that?” she asked, turning to look at me. Strong sunlight angled in from the window behind her, darkening her to the point that her features wereobscured.
“My father,” I said, squeezing back into the bed beside her. For a while, she continued pondering the puzzle as I lay there, the unfamiliar smell of her still thrilling. She knew nothing about my family, about my father’s recent visit to Calcutta, or about my mother’s death, the summer before I started college. In the course of our few weekends together, I had told Jessica none of those things. That morning, after crying briefly against her body, I did.
After my exams, I drove to [REDACTED], dropping off Jessica at her parents’ farmhouse in [REDACTED] on the way. When I decided to attend Swarthmore, my father had given me the Audi he’d bought after we moved back from [REDACTED]. He’d said that it would make it easier for me to come home for weekends and holidays, but I knew it was really an excuse to get rid of yet another thing my mother had touched, known, or otherwise occupied. The day we came back from the hospital for the last time, he took every single photograph of her, in frames and in albums, and put them in a shoebox. “Choose a few. I know pictures are important to you,” he told me, and then he sealed the box with tape and put it in a closet somewhere. He had wasted no time giving away her clothes, her handbags, her boxes of cosmetics and colognes. The clothes her Bengali friends in [REDACTED] had no need for were sent to charities in 496e646961, as there was nowhere in [REDACTED] to donate all those saris with their matching blouses and petticoats. This was according to my mother’s instructions. “I don’t want all that beautiful material turned into curtains,” she’d told us from her hospital bed. Her ashes were tossed from a boat off the Gloucester coast, but her gold went back to Calcutta, distributed to poor women who had worked for my extended family as ayahs or cooks or maids.
It didn’t matter to me that her things were gone. After [REDACTED], she had little occasion to wear jewels and saris, saying no to most of the parties she and my father were invited to. Coming home from school toward the end, I would find her sitting wrapped in a blanket, looking out at the pool she no longer had the strength to swim in. Sometimes I would take her outside for fresh air, walking carefully through the birches and pines behind the house and sitting with her on a low stone wall. Occasionally, feeling ambitious, she would ask me to drive her to the sea. “Be sure to keep my ruby choker and the pearl-and-emerald set for the person you will marry,” she said during one of those walks. “I’m not planning on getting married anytime soon,” I told her, and she said that she wished she could say the same for dying. Ultimately, I disobeyed her. After she was gone, I was unable to open up any of the flat red boxes she’d kept hidden in a suitcase on her closet shelf, never mind set something aside for the sake of my future happiness.
Late in the afternoon, I climbed the road that led to our driveway. Our house was the only source of light for miles, amid isolated patches of hardened snow. It was a stark structure of concrete and glass that my mother had loved more than the shingled, shuttered homes typical of the town. Stone steps had been built into the uneven ground, flanked by overgrown rhododendrons leading to the entrance. I could tell from the other car in the driveway that my father was home, and he stood behind the storm door, waiting for me to come in with my things.
“We were expecting you earlier,” he said. “You said you would be here by lunchtime.”
I knew then that it was true, that there was another person inside the house, a person who made it possible for my father, without hesitating, to say “we” instead of “I.” I said nothing about my detour to Jessica’s home and the two hours I’d spent there. Instead, I said the traffic had been bad. I wondered if my father had left work early for my sake. He had given up wearing suits and was dressed as he might be for the weekend, in dark-blue pants and a cream-colored sweater. There was more gray in his hair than I remembered, and though he was still vigorously handsome, old age was creeping into his face, the skin sagging at the sides of his nose, his pale-greenish eyes—a trait that made my mother insist that there was Irish blood on his side of the family—less curious than they had once been. I tried to imagine him, just weeks before, in a silk kurta, a groom’s topor on his head. I wondered who had taken photographs of the wedding, whether my father would show them to me.
I was unused to the heavy smell of cooking that was in the air as I stepped into the house. Otherwise things appeared unchanged, the black-and-white photographs I’d taken of the surrounding woods, which my mother had insisted on framing, still lining one wall of the entryway. The house had always maintained an impersonal quality, full of built-in cupboards concealing the traces of our everyday lives. Now that I no longer lived there, I was astonished by how enormous it was, the soaring double-height ceiling of the living room and the great wall of glass looking out onto the trees, more befitting of an institution than a private home. There was a window seat running the length of the glass wall, enough space for twenty people to sit side by side, as they had during my mother’s funeral.
My mother had insisted on furnishing the house with pieces true to its modernist architecture: a black leather sectional configured in a U, a chrome floor lamp arcing overhead, a glass-topped kidney-shaped cocktail table, and a dining table made of white fibreglass surrounded by matching chairs. She had never allowed a cloth to cover the table, but one was there now, something with an 496e646961n print that could just as easily have been a bedspread and didn’t fully reach either end. In the center, instead of the generous cluster of fresh fruit or flowers my mother would have arranged, there was a stainless-steel plate holding an ordinary saltshaker and two jars of pickles, hot mango and sweet lime, their lids missing, their labels stained, spoons stuck into their oils. A single place had been set for me at one end, with translucent luchis piled on a plate, and several smaller bowls containing dal and vegetables arrayed in a semicircle.
“Sit down,” my father said. “You must be hungry.” He was nervous, as I was. There was no drink in his hand, no bottle of Johnnie Walker set out, as it usually was by this time, on the cocktail table.
I remained standing, uninterested in the food, staring down at the table. I was no longer accustomed to 496e646961n food. At school, I ate in the cafeteria, and during my time at home after my mother’s death my father and I either went out or picked up pizzas, so that the impressive gas stove that my mother had been so excited about when we moved in was used only to boil water for tea. I looked above the table at one corner of the ceiling and saw that it was discolored by a leak.
“When did that happen?” I asked.
“A while back.”
“Aren’t you going to fix it?” My father, sensitive to how buildings were put together, had always been particular about that sort of thing.
“It’s a big project,” he said. “There’s a reason roofs should be sloped in this part of the world.”
I heard no voices or footsteps. It was as if Chitra and her daughters were discreetly hidden in one of the closets, swallowed up as so many other things were. “Where are they?” I asked finally.
She appeared then, walking through the swinging doors that led to the kitchen. She was closer to my age than to my father’s. I had known this beforehand, but seeing her was a shock. Her hair was long and dark and she had a broad nose on an otherwise pleasant face, though it was too round for me to find beautiful. She was taller than I’d expected her to be, a little taller than my mother. She wore vermillion in her hair, a traditional practice my mother had shunned, that powdery red stain the strongest element of her appearance.
“I would like for you to call me Mamoni,” she said in Bengali. Her voice was of a lower pitch than my mother’s, with a faint huskiness that was oddly calming. “Do you have any objection to that?” She asked this kindly, smiling, wary of my reaction, and I shook my head, not smiling back.
“Please,” she said, this time in English, motioning to the chair.
I turned to my father and asked, “Aren’t we all eating?”
“We already have,” Chitra said, switching back to Bengali. “You have driven from so far. More is coming.” She returned abruptly to the kitchen, and I sat down. The last thing I’d eaten was a slice of fruitcake baked by Jessica’s mother. My mouth watered, in spite of my reluctance to eat, and I was suddenly grateful for the food in front of me.
“Start, Kaushik,” my father said, sitting down in an empty chair beside me. “It’s getting cold.”
The arrangement of the bowls, small glass bowls in which we normally had ice cream, felt too formal to me. This was the old-fashioned, ceremonious way I remembered my grandfathers eating in Calcutta, being treated each day like kings after their morning baths. I wondered what was the best way to go about it, whether to take a spoonful of each dish as I went or to dump everything onto the plate at once. In the meantime, I ate the luchis, still warm and impressively puffed. I was reminded of Sunday mornings in [REDACTED], eating luchis prepared by our Parsi cook, Zareen. I could hear my mother complaining cheerfully in the kitchen, telling Zareen to try another batch, that she was frying them before the oil was hot enough.
When Chitra returned, she was followed by her daughters, two girls who at first glance were indistinguishable, apart from a few inches in height. They were overdressed in our comfortably heated house, in thick sweaters and socks, incongruous 496e646961n things that would soon be rejected, I knew, in favor of clothes from the mall. The sweaters were both made of a sickeningly bright shade of pink wool. The girls were darker and sweeter-looking than Chitra, with heart-shaped faces and two black ponytails on either side of their heads, adorned with red ribbons.
“Would you like some of this?” I asked, pointing to the luchis left on my plate, and to my surprise they stepped forward and both put out a hand, cupping their giggling mouths with the other. One of the girls, the shorter one, was missing a front tooth.
“Let Dada eat in peace,” Chitra said. She had trod cautiously in terms of what I was to call her, but now referred to me without hesitation as the girls’ older brother.
“You can call me Kaushik,” I said to the girls, and this made them giggle more forcefully.
“What about K.D.?” my father suggested.
We all turned to him, puzzled, this man for whom we were now gathered together.
“Short for Kaushik Dada,” he explained. I wondered if this was something that had just popped into his head or if he’d considered it carefully beforehand. He had always possessed an inventive streak when it came to words, writing Bengali poems and reading them aloud to my mother. It had been one of our family secrets, the fact that my civilengineer father was also a poet. I assumed he’d stopped writing after my mother’s death, as he’d stopped doing so many things.
“That’s clever,” Chitra said, speaking directly to my father for the first time since my arrival. She spoke approvingly, with the tone of someone who is used to acknowledging small achievements, and it was then that I remembered that she had been a schoolteacher in her former life. “Yes, K.D. is better.” I found the nickname inane, but my father seemed proud of it, and it was preferable to Chitra’s alternative.
“And what do I call you?” I asked my stepsisters.
“I am Rupa,” the taller one said, her voice husky, like her mother’s.
“And I am Piu,” the one missing the tooth said.
“We are very glad to be in your room,” Rupa added. She spoke stiffly, a bit distantly, as if reciting something she’d been forced to memorize. “We are very much appreciating.” They spoke to me in English, their accents and their intonation sounding as severe as mine must have when I returned to [REDACTED] at sixteen. I knew the accents would soon diminish and then disappear, as would their unstylish sweaters, their silly hair style.
“Rupa and Piu are eager to see the aquarium and the science museum,” my father said. “Perhaps you can take them one day, Kaushik.”
I didn’t reply to this. “Very tasty,” I said instead in Bengali, referring to the food, something my mother had taught me to say when eating in the homes of other people. I got up to carry my plate to the kitchen.
“You have not eaten,” Chitra said, intercepting me. She attempted to take the plate from my hand, but I held on to it and went to the kitchen, to pour myself some of the Johnnie Walker my father stored in the cupboard over the dishwasher. “What do you need? I’ll get it for you,” Chitra said, following me. I was suddenly sickened by her, by the sight of her standing in our kitchen. The space retained my mother’s presence more than any other part of the house. The jade and spider plants she had watered were still thriving on the windowsill, the orange-and-white sunburst clock she’d so loved the design of, with its quivering second hand, still marking the time on the wall. Ignoring Chitra, I opened one cupboard for a glass and another for the Scotch, but all I found were boxes of cereal and packets of chanachur brought back from Calcutta.
My father came into the kitchen as well. “Where’s the Scotch?” I asked him.
He glanced at Chitra, and after some small silent communication between them she walked out. “I put it away,” he said once we were alone.
“Why?”
“I’ve stopped taking it. I sleep better at night, I find.”
“Since when?”
“For some time now. Also, I didn’t want to alarm Chitra.”
“Alarm her?”
“She’s a bit old-fashioned.” He pulled out the step stool that lived in a space beside the refrigerator and unfolded it. He climbed to the top and opened up a cupboard above the refrigerator, pulling out a half-empty bottle.
I wanted to ask my father what on earth had possessed him to marry an old-fashioned girl half his age. Instead, I said, taking the bottle from his hand, “I hope it’s all right if I alarm her.”
“Just be quiet about it, especially around the girls.”
My parents had never been quiet about their fondness for Johnnie Walker, around me, around anyone. After my mother’s death, when I was eighteen, it was I who had filled her shoes, nursing one glass and then another in the evenings in order to keep my father company until we could both justify going to bed. I almost never drank the stuff at college, preferring beer, but whenever I came home I craved the taste.
“I thought tomorrow, while I’m at work, you could go pick up a tree,” my father said. “There’s a place not too far down 128. Perhaps the girls would want to join you. They’re terribly excited about it.”
I looked at him, confused. Until now, it had not fully registered that my father would be at work during the days, that I would be alone with Chitra and her daughters.
“You mean a Christmas tree?” For the past three years, since my mother’s death, we had not celebrated the holiday at our house. Instead, we had fallen into a pattern of accepting invitations to the homes of friends, appearing in the mornings fully dressed while the other family was still in their pajamas. In [REDACTED], my mother had always thrown a party on Christmas Day, stringing lights throughout our flat and putting presents under a potted hibiscus. It was a time of year when she always spoke fondly about [REDACTED], saying the holiday wasn’t the same without the cold weather, the decorated shops, the cards that came in the mail.
“I suppose we’ll have to get some presents,” my father added. “We still have a few days. It needn’t be extravagant.”
I knew Chitra and her girls were probably huddled together in the dining area listening to every word my father and I exchanged, but that didn’t stop me from saying, “Those girls are barely half my age. Do you expect me to play with them?”
“I don’t expect you to do anything,” my father replied evenly. He was unshaken by my remark, perhaps even relieved that we were now officially in opposition, that there was no longer a need to pretend. It was as if he had already played out this scene several times in his mind and was weary of it. “I am only asking if you mind picking up a tree.”
I had yet to pour my drink. I’d been standing with my back to the kitchen counter, one hand holding a glass, the other the bottle my father had retrieved from its hiding place. I poured it now, taking it as my mother did, with one ice cube, not adding water. I drank what I had poured, then poured another. “Easy,” my father said.
I glanced directly at his face. After my mother’s death, he had acquired an expression that permanently set his features in a different way. It was an expression less of sadness than of irritated resignation, the way he used to look if a glass slipped from my hands when I was little, or if the day we had planned a picnic happened to be cloudy. That was the expression that had come to his face the morning we stepped into my mother’s hospital room for the last time, that subsequently greeted me whenever I came home from college, that still seemed directed at my mother for letting him down. But the expression was missing now. “Not easy,” I said, shaking my head at my own reflection suspended against the black backdrop of evening. “It’s not easy for me.”
My father had already left for work by the time I woke up the next morning. For a while, I remained in bed, not knowing what time it was, confused, initially, as to why I was in the guest room and why I could hear the sound of muffled girlish laughter drifting down through the ceiling. The guest room was on the first floor of the house, in its own wing off a corridor behind the kitchen. My bed faced a sliding glass door that opened onto the back yard and the pool, which was covered now by a black tarp. When we first moved into the house, my mother had devoted a disproportionate amount of attention to setting up the guest room, shopping for the grasshopper-green quilt on the bed and curtains for the glass door, asking me to hang a pink-and-purple Madhubani painting over the chest of drawers. I didn’t know who she was expecting to come and stay with us, but by then we indulged her in whatever pastime lifted her spirits. I was grateful for it now, glad not to be upstairs in my old bedroom, which shared a wall with my parents’ room. It had been awful enough hearing my mother’s raspy breathing at night, her moans. Now I would have had to hear Chitra and my father conversing before bed, I would have had to imagine their bodies under a blanket side by side.
To my knowledge, the only person who’d ever occupied our guest room was a nurse named Mrs. Gharibian, who had come to tend to my mother after her needs became too much for my father and me. Mrs. Gharibian was a middle-aged woman with short brown hair and a soft Southern accent. Normally, she left in the evenings, but for two weeks she spent the nights with us, administering morphine injections and emptying bedpans, making notes in a little cloth book that looked as if it ought to contain recipes. Something about her quietly optimistic manner made me believe that Mrs. Gharibian had the power to sustain my mother—not to cure her but to keep her alive indefinitely. “This is the worst part,” she told me once. “You’re holding your breath, thinking it’s still ahead, but this really is the worst of it, for you and for her.” At the time, her words had not soothed me; I could imagine nothing worse than the moment my mother no longer drew air in and out of her lungs, no longer took us in through her weary eyes. I could imagine nothing worse than not being able to look at her face every day, its beauty grossly distorted but never abandoning her. But in the days after my mother’s death I realized that Mrs. Gharibian had been right, there had been nothing worse than waiting for it to come, that the void that followed was easier to bear than the solid weight of those days.
I pulled on a sweater, cracked open the sliding door, lit a cigarette. The season’s leaves had not been raked and were scattered everywhere, drifting in the breeze over the tarp-covered pool. Our first summer in the house, my mother had used the pool religiously, forty lengths back and forth before breakfast. By the following summer, when she was weak from chemotherapy, she would only wade or dangle her legs on hot days, and at the end of that summer she died.
Inside, I could hear the television—as soon as I emerged from the guest room I would have to see them. I put on my jeans, annoyed that I could not simply walk through the house in my boxers. In the bathroom, I brushed my teeth and took the time to shave. I craved coffee but not food. Dinner had been another embarrassment of riches. Chitra hovered over my father and me and the girls, eating privately after we were done, the way our maids would in [REDACTED]. I imagined another crowded plate waiting for me on the dining table, but there was no breakfast prepared, nothing offered when I approached Chitra and her daughters in the living room. They were sitting with their feet up on the sectional, watching “Family Feud.” They were dwarfed by the soaring ceiling, washed out by the morning sunlight. The girls were dressed, but Chitra was wearing a zippered housecoat in a frumpy red-and-yellow calico print. Without makeup or jewelry, she looked even younger. She was drinking a cup of tea, my mother’s biscuit tin open beside her.
“Good morning,” I said.
“Good morning,” Piu and Rupa chimed back, their eyes quickly returning to the television.
“I’ll get your tea,” Chitra said, putting her cup on the cocktail table and preparing to get up. “I didn’t make any for you. Your father told me you like to sleep late when you visit home.”
“It’s O.K.,” I told her. “Don’t get up. I don’t need any.”
She spoke to me in Bengali, I to her in English, as had been the case the night before. I thought that my slack 556e6974656420537461746573nized pronunciation would be lost on her, but she seemed to follow what I said.
She frowned, confused. “No tea in the morning?” The girls also looked away from the television, waiting for my answer.
“I need coffee. It’s what I have at school. I’m used to it now.”
“But there is no coffee in the kitchen. Not that I have seen.”
“Don’t worry about it. I’ll grab some at Dunkin’ Donuts.” Before she had the chance to ask, I continued, “It’s a place that sells doughnuts. Doughnuts are a kind of cake, with a hole in the center.”
“The store is far?”
“Just a few minutes.”
“But you must take the car?”
I nodded, and she looked disappointed. “Without a car there is nowhere to go?”
“Not really. Can you drive?”
She shook her head.
“It’s not hard. I’m sure you could get a license.”
“Oh, no,” she said, not as if she were incapable but as if driving were beneath her. “I would not like to learn.”
“I’ll be back in a while,” I said. I noticed that the girls were looking up at me and I hesitated. “Would you like to come along?”
“Yes, please,” Rupa and Piu said at the same time. They looked at Chitra, and she nodded in assent.
I went back to the guest room to get my wallet and keys, and when I returned the girls were already in their coats, matching red parkas that my father must have bought for them after they arrived. The thick zippers and bright nylon shells of the coats transformed their appearance, suddenly lending them a legitimately 556e6974656420537461746573n air. They sat together in the back of my car among the newspapers, empty soda bottles, course books, cassette tapes. “Sorry for the mess,” I said, tossing everything off the seat and onto the floor. They fastened their seat belts carefully, prying one of the buckles out of its gap, Rupa helping Piu. Chitra stood in her housecoat looking through the storm door. She was trusting me to take her children to a place she’d never heard of and would not be able to find. Still, she waved and forced a small smile. I stepped on the clutch, about to reverse the car, when Chitra opened the storm door, poking her head out. “And I will be all right?”
“What do you mean?”
“I will be safe alone, in this house?”
“Of course,” I said, stunned that it would be the first time, nearly laughing at her. “Enjoy it.”
“She does not allow us to go outside,” Piu said. “Not without her.”
“She is afraid because she cannot see neighbors,” Rupa added. “And that we will fall into the swimming pool.”
I did not know how to respond to any of this, so I said nothing as I backed out of the long driveway and drove toward town. The closest Dunkin’ Donuts was less than fifteen minutes away, and when I approached, it felt too soon. I wanted to continue driving, and so I kept going, heading toward the next town, where there was a beach my mother used to like for an occasional change of scenery. This required getting on the highway, and I found it satisfying, accelerating for a short while along the empty, impersonal road. The girls asked no questions about where we were going, each looking steadily out the back windows, the journey brief enough that the lack of conversation did not feel strange. I entered the next town and took a road from which the gray line of the ocean was visible. I pointed this out to Rupa and Piu, but they said nothing. “We can either go into the drive-through or inside,” I said once we reached the doughnut shop. “You guys have a preference?”
“Which way is best?” Rupa asked.
“With the drive-through, I get my coffee and drink it as we go back to the house. The other way, we sit inside.”
Rupa voted for the drive-through, Piu to go inside. “Tell you what,” I said. “We’ll go in, and on our way home I’ll get a refill in the drive-through.”
They seemed pleased that neither option would be denied to them and got out of the car, holding hands as they walked across the parking lot. The Dunkin’ Donuts was part of a shopping plaza, and the lot was crammed with the cars of last-minute Christmas shoppers, but Dunkin’ Donuts was empty. I ordered my coffee and asked the girls what they wanted. They stared at the selections, Piu straining on tiptoe, Rupa with her mouth slightly open and her tongue planted in one corner of it. The decent thing to do was to lift Piu up so that she could get a better view, and when I offered she raised her hands and came into my arms. She was heavier than I expected, and I placed her on the counter, where she continued to stare.
“Which is your favorite, K.D.?”
“[REDACTED] cream.”
“I want that one, then.”
“Me, too,” Rupa said.
“Make it three,” I told the cashier.
We sat in a booth, me on one side of the Formica table, my stepsisters on the other. They began eating enthusiastically, not pausing until they were finished, exchanging glances in a sisterly commentary I was not privy to. I ate my doughnut as well, surprised by how much smaller their mouths were than mine, how much longer it took them to finish. I felt separate from them in every way but at the same time could not deny the things that bound us together. There was my father, of course, but he seemed to be the least relevant, in a way. Like them, I’d made the journey from 496e646961 to [REDACTED], too old not to experience the shock of it, too young to have a say in the matter. They would recall all of this, perhaps not as clearly as I remembered those first months, but nevertheless they would remember. Like them, I had lost a parent and was now being asked to accept a replacement. I wondered how clearly they remembered their father; Piu would have been only five when he died. Even my memories of my mother had begun to break apart in the three and a half years since her death, the thousands of days I had spent with her reduced to a handful of stock scenes. I was lucky, compared with Rupa and Piu, having had my mother for as long as I did. The knowledge of death seemed present in both sisters—it was something about the way they carried themselves, something that had broken too soon and had not mended, marking them in spite of their lightheartedness.
“Liked that?” I asked.
Both girls nodded, and Piu said, “Another tooth is loose.” She opened her mouth and pressed a tiny chocolate-stained lower tooth forward with her tongue.
The coffee was too hot to drink, so I removed the lid and set it on the counter. Piu was looking out the window, at the cars pulling in and out of the lot. Rupa was eying the doughnuts on display, the dispensers of coffee, the tanks of bubbling red punch.
“Would you like another?”
She shook her head, avoiding my gaze. She was more reserved than Piu and seemed, at times, unimpressed by her new surroundings. “I would like to bring one home for Ma.”
“The one with the colors on top,” Piu said, kneeling up in the booth and pointing. “That is prettiest.”
Rupa disagreed. “I like the one that is covered in snow.”
“Here’s a dollar,” I said, reaching for my wallet. “Would you guys like to buy a couple more?”
“We are not allowed to touch money,” Rupa said.
“It’s only a dollar. Even if you were to lose it between here and there,” I said, glancing back at the cash register, “it wouldn’t be a big deal.”
“Big deal?” Piu asked, knitting her dark brows together.
“Not important.”
They slid out of the booth and walked toward the counter, each of them holding a corner of the dollar bill as if it were a miniature banner in a parade. I had my back to the counter, so I turned partway around to watch. I saw Rupa pointing, once and once more, then both of them sliding the dollar to the cashier. He folded over the top of the bag and moved it back and forth, unsure which of the girls to hand it to, eventually leaving it on the counter for Rupa.
“Why didn’t you say anything?” I asked when they returned.
Rupa handed me the change, looking defensive. “We have done something wrong?”
“No. But you could have said the kind of doughnuts you wanted instead of pointing, you could have thanked the cashier when he gave them to you. And you should always start off by saying hello.”
Rupa looked down at the table. “Sorry.”
“Don’t apologize. I’m just saying, you guys don’t have to be shy. The more you use your English in these situations, the better it will be. It’s already good.”
“Not like yours,” Rupa said. “They will laugh at us in school.”
“I am afraid to go to school,” Piu said, shaking her head and covering her eyes with her hands.
It was not my intention to reassure them, but it seemed cruel not to. “Look, I know how you feel. A few kids might laugh in the beginning, but it doesn’t matter. They laughed at me, too. I came here from [REDACTED] when I was sixteen and had to figure things out all over again. I was born here but it was still hard, leaving and then coming back again.”
“It was before your mother died?” Piu asked. She asked this reverently, a bit sadly, as if she’d actually known my mother, or perhaps because it reminded her of her father, I could not tell. I nodded.
“What was she like?”
“She was—she was my mother,” I said, caught off guard by the question. I felt suddenly vulnerable in front of two little girls I’d known less than a day and yet who understood me better, in many ways, than friends who had known me for years. Four years ago, my mother would have been the one sitting across from me, sipping her tea, complaining how tasteless it was, after one of our windy walks along the beach.
“Do you have a picture of her?” Rupa asked. For a moment her gaze held mine.
“No,” I lied, not wanting to show them the one I carried stuffed behind the [REDACTED] cards in my wallet. It had been taken during a party in our flat in [REDACTED], long before her illness.
“Why is there no picture of her in the house?” Rupa asked.
“My father didn’t want any.”
“Ma has been looking,” Piu said. “She has looked in every room. But she cannot find one.”
Chitra was sitting on the window seat when we got back, watching for my car. The anxiety in her face was obvious, but she didn’t ask what had taken us so long. Piu and Rupa didn’t give her a chance, rushing up as if they hadn’t seen her for days, handing her the doughnuts and telling her what a fun trip it was, how generous I’d been, Piu reporting that they’d paid for the doughnuts themselves. It was obvious that the girls liked me and that, because of her daughters’ approval, Chitra was willing to like me, too. But I needed to be alone. The open plan of the house meant it was impossible to watch television or listen to music without engaging with them. Instead, I sat on the bed in the guest room, looking at the yard and leafing through the Globe. Then I went for a run, five cold miles on the winding roads. When I returned, they were eating a heavy Bengali lunch, hunched over plates of rice and dal and the previous night’s leftovers. I turned down Chitra’s invitation to join them and instead, after my shower, dragged the phone into the guest room and called Jessica.
“Why don’t you just come here?” she suggested. I wished I could, wished I could simply get into my car and drive to her parents’ home. But I wasn’t capable of walking out, not yet. When I went to return the phone to its place in the hallway, I realized that they were all upstairs, napping, the way my relatives did in 496e646961. For the first time since my arrival, I stretched out on the sectional, to watch television, and without meaning to I fell asleep myself. They were downstairs when I woke up, within arm’s reach but behaving as if I were not there. It was already getting dark outside, the arcing lamp spreading its light over the cocktail table. The channel had been changed to a talk show. Chitra was combing and retying the girls’ hair and then proceeded to comb her own. She worked through it with her fingers, a stunning mass cascading nearly to her waist which had been contained, until now, in a braid. The sight repulsed me; I could not help thinking of the hair that had fallen out in clumps from my mother’s head, the awful wig she’d worn, even in the hospital, up until the day she died.
Rupa sat behind Chitra, massaging her mother’s scalp and plucking out a few gray hairs while Chitra leaned back and closed her eyes. I sat up and watched, imagining the rest of Chitra’s hair turning gray one day, imagining her growing into an old woman alongside my father, the way my mother was meant to. That thought made me conscious, formally, of my hatred of her. As if aware of what I was thinking, Chitra opened her eyes and looked at me, embarrassed, quickly gathering her hair around her hand. She got up and went to the kitchen, returning a few minutes later with a pot of tea and cups of Ovaltine on a tray. There were two types of chanachur in cereal bowls and, on a small plate, a doughnut cut into four pieces.
“Now will you take tea?” she asked me.
I accepted, lifting from the tray the cup she’d already prepared, with separately heated milk and too much sugar.
“This is from Haldiram,” she said, passing me one of the cereal bowls. “Best in all Calcutta.”
“No, thank you.”
“This room is cold,” she continued. “The wind comes straight through the glass. Why aren’t there curtains?”
“It would spoil the view,” I said.
“The steps are also slippery.” She pointed to the floating staircase leading to the second floor. “And there is no railing. I am afraid Rupa and Piu will fall.”
I turned to look at the thick pieces of wood arranged like empty shelves ascending the white walls. Even at her weakest, my mother had gone up and down them without protest.
“Why is there no railing?” Chitra repeated.
“Because we liked it that way,” I said, aware that I sounded pedantic. “Because that’s what makes it beautiful.” We had nothing else to say to each other. We sat and watched one program and then the next as Chitra worked on something with a crochet hook, and I wondered how I was going to survive the next four weeks in her company. We were all waiting for my father, waiting for him to return and explain, if only by his presence, why we were sitting together drinking tea. When he did, he asked me to give him a hand outside; there was a Christmas tree tied to the roof of his car. “I would have gone tomorrow,” I said, helping him to untie the rope that held it in place. We dragged the tree inside and propped it in one corner of the living room, next to the high stone fireplace. Chitra and the girls gathered around.
“But it’s just like all the other trees outside,” Chitra said, pointing through the glass wall.
“It’s different, actually.” I said. “On the property we have pine trees. This is a spruce.”
Somewhere in the basement there was a box, my father said, containing the stand, the lights, ornaments to hang from the branches. They were from our first winter in the house, the last Christmas my mother celebrated, and I was surprised my father hadn’t tossed them out. He asked me to go down and look for the box. Our basement lacked the sedimented clutter of most, given that we’d lived in the house only a handful of years. There had been no period of haphazard accumulation, only events that had caused things to be taken away. Still, there were a number of boxes stacked up against the walls, empty ones that had once contained the television and the stereo speakers, others still taped up, full of inessential items my parents had had shipped from [REDACTED] and never bothered to unpack.
I slit the tape of a few of the boxes with my car key and lifted the flaps. One contained some old engineering books of my father’s. Another had a dinner set wrapped in pages from the Times of 496e646961, plates I had eaten off for years but forgotten until now, with a pattern of small orange diamonds around the rim. I found my enlarger, tongs, a set of trays, and old bottles of fixer for the darkroom I’d set up during my last year of high school. There were times when my mother had come down and kept me company, sitting quietly in the blackness as I struggled to load film onto the developing reel. Together we would breathe in the chemical smells, their corrosiveness, from which my hands were protected by rubber gloves, nothing compared with what was taking place inside her body. She would keep time for me with her watch, familiarizing herself with the process enough to be able to tell me when to pour the series of fluids in and out of the processing tank, both of us knowing that I’d have to buy a timer, eventually. “It must be something like this,” she said once in that perfectly dark, silent, sealed space, and I understood without her saying so that she was imagining what it might be like to be dead. “This is how I want to think of it.”
The box I was looking for was labelled “X-Mas” in my mother’s hand. I had no sentimental attachment to the items inside, and yet I didn’t want to see them. The thought of Chitra going through the box, watching her sift through everything, upset me just as it had upset me, throughout the day, to watch her handle the cutlery, the teakettle, to hold the telephone and speak with my father and learn that he was on his way home. When my father had tried to remove the signs of my mother from the house, I blamed him for being excessive, but now I blamed him for not having done enough. “I can’t find it,” I said, after returning upstairs. My father did not press the issue. He behaved differently around Chitra, was more accepting of the minor defeats in life. I offered to go to a drugstore and buy what we needed, glad to have another reason to leave the house. When I came back, my father and I trimmed the tree together, Chitra and the girls watching us from the sectional. We placed the tree in the stand and tightened the screws and draped lights over the branches. There was nothing personal or idiosyncratic to put on it, just a box of sapphire-blue balls, so that it looked less like a tree in someone’s home than one in the corner of a bank or an office lobby. But Rupa and Piu were delighted, exclaiming that they’d never seen anything more beautiful. My father went upstairs and returned with a shopping bag full of gifts. They’d all been wrapped at whatever store he bought them in, the same green-and-gold paper, professionally taped and tied. He distributed them under the tree, eight boxes altogether. “Two for each of you,” he said to no one in particular. Rupa and Piu got up and went to look at them, excited to find their names written on the tags. “Can we open them?” Piu asked Chitra, Chitra who did not know the answer.
“Not until Christmas morning,” I said. “Until then you can just look. And maybe shake them a little.”
“So lovely,” Chitra said, impressed now that the tree had been trimmed.
“Kaushik, what about a picture?” my father suggested.
I shook my head. I had left my camera, my father’s old Yashica, at school.
“But you always have the camera with you.” That look of irritated disappointment, the one that had appeared the day my mother died and was missing now that he’d married Chitra, passed briefly across my father’s face.
“I forgot it,” I said. It was true, I did always have the camera with me. Even on quiet weekends when I came home and my father and I saw no one I would bring it, taking it with me on walks. This time I had left it behind, knowing that I would not want to document anything.
“I don’t understand,” my father said.
“Neither do I,” I replied. “You haven’t wanted a picture of anything in years.”
“That’s not true.”
“It is.”
We were stating facts and at the same time arguing, an argument whose depths only he and I could fully comprehend. I went to the kitchen to pour myself a drink, bringing it with me to the dining table when Chitra announced, a few minutes later, that dinner was ready. No one said anything during the meal. When we were done eating, Chitra cleared all the plates and took them into the kitchen, just as she had the night before. I sat finishing my drink, and Rupa and Piu slithered out of their seats and returned to the sectional to watch more television. My father got up and followed them, settling into his recliner with the newspaper. He opened it to a large ad for Lechmere that featured cameras for sale, circling things with a ballpoint pen.
Two days later was Christmas Eve, and my father stayed home from work, suggesting that we all go, the five of us, into [REDACTED] to show Chitra and the girls the city. I had no excuse and so I joined them, sitting in the back seat of my father’s car, between Rupa and Piu. Though we were going for only a short ride, the trip felt strangely momentous. For the last two years of my mother’s life, when she was always in and out of the hospital, we had gone nowhere, taken no trips for pleasure apart from occasional walks along the beach. 

I had thought we would get out of the car at various points and walk around, but Chitra said it was too cold and my father agreed. After circling around Kendall Square, he drove over the Mass Avenue Bridge and turned onto Commonwealth Avenue, which was decorated with lights and wreaths, and then drove around the Public Garden and the Common. He pointed out the golden dome of the State House and the beautiful homes that lined the steep streets of Beacon Hill. Behind those homes was Mass General, where my father and I had gone together so many times. A phone call had woken us in the early hours one morning, and we had driven down to [REDACTED] just as the first light was intruding with harsh orange streaks in the sky. She looked the same as the night before, lying in the bed with her eyes closed, only all the machines were shut off, making the room in which we had spent so many quiet hours all the more silent. Her skin felt chilled when I touched it, as if she had just returned from a brisk walk in winter. I looked up now at the windows of the hospital, but my father turned toward Chitra. “This is where [REDACTED]’s Brahmins live,” he said, laughing at his own joke, and in the front seat Chitra smiled in a way that revealed to me that she was falling in love.
For Christmas, my father bought me a sweater and a shirt, but later he gave me an envelope containing ten hundred-dollar bills. “You will need it for this and that,” he said when I told him it was too much. My father had also arranged to go to Disney World for five days; this, along with the toys under the tree, was his present to the girls. “You are welcome to join us,” my father said when he announced this news on Christmas morning, but I said no, making up something about there being a winter session at Swarthmore. My father did not try to persuade me. But Rupa and Piu were devastated. “Why don’t you want to come?” they kept asking, all the more bewildered when they discovered that I had never been to Disney World. I sensed that they needed me, as I needed them, to mask the growing, incontrovertible fact that Chitra and my father now formed a couple. My presence was proof that my mother had once existed, just as they represented the physical legacy of their dead father. “Won’t you be lonely by yourself?” Chitra asked me more than once. At the same time, I gathered that she, like my father, was relieved to hear my plans. I had no plans, of course, other than to be in the house alone.
Once I knew that they were leaving, I felt more charitable toward the girls, and in an effort to make up for not going to Disney World I took them to the science museum one day, and another day to the aquarium. They behaved impeccably on these outings, never complaining or demanding, overjoyed when I bought each of them a cheap rubber lobster. They were with me, having ice cream at Herrell’s in Harvard Square, where I’d gone to buy a record, when Piu’s loose tooth fell out as she crunched on her cone, and I sopped up the blood in her mouth with napkins and put the sticky tooth in my pocket, telling them about the tooth fairy as we drove home. I did not hold it against them that they had begun calling my father Daddy. They never spoke of their own father, but one night I woke up to the sound of Piu screaming, locked inside a nightmare, asking for her Baba again and again.
A few days before New Year’s Eve, my father and Chitra were invited to a holiday party at the home of some of my parents’ friends. How strange it was, seeing Chitra carefully descending the floating staircase, dressed up in a dark-green sari and a garnet necklace, and my father behind her, then beside her, always beside her now, his hair neatly combed, wearing a tweed sports jacket I had not seen since my mother died. I was not expected to attend the party, but Rupa and Piu were going, had put on matching dresses with red-and-black checkered skirts and black velvet headbands. At the last minute, just as my father was taking the coats out of a closet, Rupa turned to Chitra and asked, “Can we stay home?”
“Of course not,” Chitra said. “It would be rude.”
“But K.D. isn’t going.”
“Actually, it may be rather dull for them,” my father said. “I don’t believe there will be any children close to their ages.”
“I haven’t made dinner for them,” Chitra said. “They haven’t eaten.”
“I can get a pizza,” I offered, looking up from the sectional. I winked at Rupa and Piu. “We can have our own party.” The girls clapped their hands, Piu smiling to reveal the new gap in her teeth. Chitra told me to have them in bed by nine, and then she and my father buttoned their coats and went off to the party. It was the first time they had gone out alone. The girls took off their shoes but kept their tights and party dresses on, and sat with me to watch television. We passed a bag of potato chips back and forth, and when it was empty I called for pizzas. I put on my coat to go to the restaurant. Rupa and Piu stared at me.
“Where are you going?” Piu asked.
“To get our dinner.”
“You are leaving us alone?”
“It’s ten minutes away. I’ll be back before you know it.”
They said nothing, but they looked scared. It annoyed me that Chitra had instilled in them such fear. “Well, come if you want.”
We drove to the restaurant and ended up eating the pizza there. I drank a beer and smoked a few cigarettes during the meal, and Rupa and Piu sipped Cokes from tall paper cups. They asked me again if I would go with them to Disney World. I told them I would think about it, and the lie was enough to fill them with new hope. The phone was ringing when we returned to the house. It was Jessica, so I poured myself a drink and took the phone into the guest room. When I told her about my father taking Chitra and the girls to Disney World, Jessica suggested coming up to visit me while they were away. I missed her, I thought about her and desired her at night in bed, and yet I did not want to see her in my parents’ house. I didn’t say this, but she sensed my reluctance, and we began to quarrel for the first time. It was an awkward conversation, full of long pauses, draining, even though it never escalated into a real argument. I told Jessica the same lie that I told the girls, that I would think about it, and got off the phone.
When I opened the door, I saw that Rupa and Piu were no longer watching television. I called for them, checking the kitchen, the bathroom, then went upstairs, to the door of my old room. I didn’t hear them talking and, seeing that it was already ten o’clock, thought maybe they were asleep. I opened the door, looking into the room for the first time since I’d come home. The lights were on, and I saw my old bed, and a folding cot placed beside it without any gap. The things I’d had on the walls, the poster of Jimi Hendrix and a copy of Paul Strand’s “Blind Woman” that I’d ripped out of a magazine, had not been removed. The closet door was open, and there was a chair in front of it, as if positioned to pull something down from the shelf. I had thought the room would be transformed with Rupa and Piu’s things, but there was no sign of them apart from the extra bed and the small pile of toys they’d got for Christmas neatly stacked in one corner. Close to this pile sat Rupa and Piu in their party dresses. They had their backs to me, were hunched over something on the carpet that I couldn’t see. “She looks sad in this one,” I heard Piu whisper in Bengali, and then Rupa, saying, “She and K.D. smile the same way.”
“What are you doing?” I said.
They leaped apart, startled, realizing I was there. Spread out on the gray carpet, arranged like a game of solitaire, were about a dozen photographs of my mother taken from the box my father had sealed up and hidden after her death. Even from a distance, the banished images assaulted me: My mother wearing a swimsuit by the edge of the pool at our old club in [REDACTED]. My mother sitting with me on her lap on the brown wooden steps of our house in [REDACTED]. My mother and my father standing, before I was born, in front of a snow-caked hedge.
“What the hell do you think you’re doing?” I said now.
Rupa looked at me, her dark eyes flashing, and Piu began to cry. I walked into the room and picked up the pictures, putting them face down on my old dresser. Then I grabbed Rupa by the shoulders from where she sat crouched on the floor, shaking her forcefully. Her body had gone limp, her thin legs wobbling in their cabled black tights. I wanted to throw her against the wall, but instead I managed to direct her to the folding cot and forced her to sit, knowing that I was squeezing too hard. “Tell me, where did you find these?” I demanded, just inches from her face.
Now Rupa began to cry as well, but she pointed to the closet. I walked toward it, but Piu, still sobbing on the carpet and shaking her head, said, “It is not there anymore.” She crawled toward the cot where her sister was sitting and pulled out a black shoebox, white at the edges, the masking tape that had once bound it lifted away. This time it was Piu that I grabbed, dragging her away from the shoebox as if her proximity would contaminate it and thrusting her aside.
“You have no right to be looking at those,” I told them. “They don’t belong to you, do you understand?”
They nodded, Rupa trembling as if with cold, Piu’s lips pressed tightly together. Tears fell down their faces but words continued to pour out of me, words that should not have been uttered, should not have been heard. “Well, you’ve seen it for yourselves, how beautiful my mother was. How much prettier and more sophisticated than yours. Your mother is nothing in comparison. Just a servant to wash my father’s clothes and cook his meals. That’s the only reason she’s here, the only reason both of you are here.”
Now the girls were no longer crying, their shiny black heads staring down at the carpet, not moving, saying nothing in reply. I took the shoebox and the rest of my mother’s photographs and left the room. I wanted to remove the pictures from the house, as far as I could. I returned to the guest room, hastily packed my things, and got into my car, telling myself that my father and Chitra would be back from their party soon enough. My actions felt spontaneous, almost involuntary, propelled by the adrenaline of a state of emergency, but I realize now that on some level I had been thinking of running away for days. Rupa and Piu never came out of their room, never opened the door to see or question what I was doing, and when I started the car they did not rush out of the house to beg me to stay.
I had no idea where to go, but I got on the highway and started driving north. I quickly left [REDACTED], driving through a small piece of [REDACTED] and over the bridge into [REDACTED]. As I approached [REDACTED], I turned onto a smaller, two-lane road that occasionally hugged the sea. I drove down dark, empty stretches punctuated now and then by a cluster of churches and restaurants and houses. I could not see the ocean but detected its salty smell and the jerking sound of the wind, a sound like that of a fire burning, penetrating the closed doors and windows of my car. I thought at first that I would drive through the night, but eventually I began to feel tired and looked for a place to sleep. Most of the hotels and motels were shut for the season, and the ones that looked open were closed because it was so late. I was considering pulling onto the shoulder to nap when I spotted a motel with a twenty-four-hour sign glowing in the parking lot.
The next day, I was woken by the calls of seabirds. I sat up in a sagging brass bed and saw the water for the first time, outside my window. I remember that the window was disproportionately small for the room, as if the motel itself were a ship. The water was choppy, a gray a shade or two darker than the sky, its nearness and activity unknown to me as I’d slept. The room was dank and clammy, wallpapered with small blue anchors against a white ground, and the empty medicine cabinet in the bathroom was edged with rust. The desk clerk told me that there was a restaurant a few miles down the road, and that I was somewhere on Penobscot Bay.
After breakfast, I walked around the town and along the harbor, past boarded-up businesses and summer homes. But I spent most of the day in the motel, either looking at the ocean from the armchair in my room or downstairs at the bar, drinking, feeling sick to my stomach about what had happened the night before, afraid of myself and ashamed. I kept seeing Rupa and Piu with their heads bent, their bodies prepared to be shaken again, absorbing all the things I was too afraid to say to my father and Chitra. And I thought of them in the house after I’d left, knowing how frightened they were to be alone. I wondered what had happened when my father and Chitra returned from the party, what Rupa and Piu had told them. I assumed they’d told everything, that they had done the dirty work of expressing what I could not. I was aware that by disappearing I was causing my father concern, but I felt worse about my treatment of the girls. It was to Rupa and Piu that I owed the greater apology, but at the same time I knew that what was done was done, that no matter what I said now I would never be able to make it right.
In the afternoon, I went to a pay phone and called my father at work. “I know that you aren’t happy, that this is hard for you,” he told me, as if my disappearance were something he’d been prepared for. “But you could have done the decent thing and waited until morning. You could have said goodbye.” I didn’t offer an explanation. I had none. Instead, I asked how the girls had been when my father and Chitra returned. “They were asleep,” my father said. “Still, you shouldn’t have abandoned them in the house, Kaushik, not so late at night. Anything might have happened. Chitra was quite disturbed. She’s worried that it’s her fault you’ve run off, that she’s said or done something to upset you. She’s trying her best, you know.”
I realized then: the girls had said nothing. Chitra had no idea that I had ranted at her daughters, that I had harmed and terrified them.
“We leave for [REDACTED] the day after tomorrow,” my father said. “Do you plan to return by then?”
“I don’t think so.”
“You will get back to college on time?”
“Yes.”
“We will speak in a few weeks, then.”
He hung up the phone. He had not bothered to ask me where I’d gone.
The next morning, I got back in my car, and for days I did the same thing: driving along the coast, eating in restaurants when I was hungry, finding motels when I was tired, paying for it with the money my father had given me for Christmas. I didn’t bother getting a map. A gas-station attendant told me that eventually I would hit [REDACTED]. Now and again I saw the water, little islands and striped lighthouses and tiny spits of land. It was too brutally cold to get out of the car, but occasionally I did, to look at the ocean or explore a bit of trail. It was like no other place I’d seen, nothing like the North Shore. The sky was different, without color, taut and unforgiving. But the water was the most unforgiving thing, nearly black at times, cold enough, I knew, to kill me, violent enough to break me apart. The waves were immense, battering rocky beaches without sand. The farther I went, the more desolate it became, more than any place I’d been, but for this very reason the landscape drew me, claimed me as nothing had in a long time.
Most of the fishing villages were shut down, the lobster boats out of the water for the winter, the wooden traps stacked and empty. The bars were the only consistent sign of life, strange small places that felt more like people’s living rooms, with clamshells for ashtrays and nets draped on the walls. I had nothing to say to the fishermen and the other people who drank there and had lived in those villages all their lives, their tobacco-stained beards concealing their faces, their hands raw and chapped, their accents unfathomable. They were neither friendly nor unfriendly, and I kept to myself, aware that I stood out. I did not crave anyone’s company. I had never travelled alone before and I discovered that I liked it. No one in the world knew where I was, no one had the ability to reach me. It was like being dead, my escape allowing me to taste that tremendous power my mother possessed forever.
I spent five days getting to the border of [REDACTED], another four heading back, using my father’s money almost to the penny. Somewhere during that time, the year ended; I was aware of it thanks only to a free shot of whiskey I received one night in a bar. I was certain that if my mother had lived to visit that part of the world she would have persuaded my father to buy her one of the hundreds of houses I passed, overlooking the open sea. The bars and diners I stopped at all had stacks of pamphlets listing waterfront properties, and sometimes, lacking anything else to read, I looked at them. It reminded me of my parents’ search for our house after leaving [REDACTED]. In spite of all the effort and money my mother put into that house, we had never been able to inhabit it properly, and because of what was happening to her we never felt happy. There phone calls were made to doctors, medicine bottles were strewn about, the paraphernalia of her illness taking over every corner of every room. It was there that my mother prepared to depart for another place altogether, one where we would be unable to join her and from which she would not return.
One day, close to the Canadian border, walking along cliffs overlooking the Bay of Fundy, I found a spot that was particularly striking. A sign told me that I was in the easternmost state park in the country. The trail was not easy, falling through rich-smelling pine forests. The tops of the trees were spindly, their lower boughs dusted with snow. The wind ripped and chewed through everything, and the water was a sheer drop down. I crossed paths with no one. For a long time, I watched the approach and retreat of the waves, their thick caps crashing apart against the rocks, that eternally restless motion having an inversely calming effect on me. The following day I returned to the same spot, this time bringing with me the shoebox of my mother’s photographs. I sat on the ground, opened the box, and began going through the pictures one by one, as if they were pieces of mail that I was quickly scanning and would read later on. But there were too many pictures, and after a few I, like my father, could no longer bear the sight of them. A slight lessening in the pressure of my fingertips and the ones I was holding would have blown away into that wild sea, scattering down to where my mother’s ashes already resided. But I could not bear that, either, and so I put them back in the box and began to break the hardened ground. I had only a stick and a sharp-edged rock to work with and the hole was not impressive, but it was deep enough to conceal the box. I covered it with dirt and stones. The moon’s first light was shining down when I was done, and I walked back, aided by that same beam of light, to my car.
A few weeks before my college graduation, my father called to say that he was selling our house, that he and Chitra and the girls were moving to a more traditional one in a less isolated suburb of [REDACTED]. There were other Bengalis nearby and an 496e646961n grocery in the town, things that were more important to Chitra than the proximity of the ocean and modernist architecture had been for my mother. I would not be following my father to that new house; I had made plans to travel in South [REDACTED] after graduating. The events over Christmas had never been discussed, never acknowledged. Along with my father, Chitra and Rupa and Piu watched my commencement sitting on folding chairs on the grass, clapping when it was my turn to walk to the dais, posing beside me for photographs in my cap and gown. The girls were polite to me, respectful of the fact that it was my day, but it was as if we’d never met. I knew that they had never revealed anything to Chitra or to my father about the things I had said and done that night, that it would remain between the three of us, that in their silence they continued both to protect and to punish me. The memory of that night was now the only tie between us, eclipsing everything else. In their utterly polite way, they made that clear. They spoke only to each other, and though their accents had turned 556e6974656420537461746573n, my stepsisters, the closest thing I would ever have to siblings, seemed more impenetrable to me now than they had when they arrived. “Everyone closer,” my father directed from behind his new camera, and Rupa and Piu held their shoulders tensely as I draped an arm around each. “We are both moving forward, Kaushik,” my father told me after the ceremony. “New roads to explore.” And, without our having to say it, I knew we were both thankful to Chitra for chafing under whatever lingered of my mother’s spirit in the place she had last called home and for forcing us to shut its doors. 

