FRIENDLY FIRE
By Tessa Hadley

Shelley was helping out her friend Pam. Pam had her own cleaning business, but her employees were so unreliable that she ended up doing half the work herself. She’d been hired to do a scrub-off, meaning a thorough cleaning, right down to basics, at an industrial warehouse somewhere at the edge of the city. Shelley had agreed to go along; it was a few weeks before Christmas, and she could do with the extra money. When she went outside to wait for Pam, it was still night, the stars in the sky showing like flecks of broken glass. Pam was late, as usual, but Shelley hadn’t wanted to wait inside in case the doorbell woke the others: her daughter and baby granddaughter were asleep upstairs. She felt herself growing heavy and thick with cold. You forgot about the cold—the house had central heating, and winters weren’t like they used to be. When Shelley was a child, she’d wrapped her scarf around her head and mouth on the way to school, trying to trap the warmth of her breath inside; these days, you hardly needed a scarf. The phase of life Shelley was in now, anyway, the heat of her body came and went in blasts, and she had a horror of being caught out in tight clothes.
She could have stamped her feet or flung her arms around, but it was too early in the morning; instead, she let the cold creep into her as if she were made of stone. When the car pulled up at last, she could barely even move toward it, though she could see Pam lit up inside, peering out through the window, looking for her. Pam always drove with the interior light on. She treated her car like just another room in her house—while she was driving, she’d fiddle around with piles of paper and bits of crocheted blanket and boxes of tissues on the passenger seat, hanging on to the steering wheel with her other hand. She was a danger on the road, but Shelley didn’t drive. For a moment, before she headed over to the car, Shelley imagined herself as Pam was seeing her—just another pillar of dark, like the hedge and the phone box and the pebble-dashed end wall of the kitchen extension. She and her husband, Roy, lived on what had been a council estate, although they had been buying their house for years now.
Pam was fat like a limp saggy cushion, very short, with permed yellow curls that were growing out gray; her face was crumpled, like an ancient baby’s. Roy always said that Pam and Shelley, side by side, looked like Little and Large, because Shelley was tall and thin. Shelley had never been one to eat too much. Her only weakness was tea with sugar; she drank a lot of that—she couldn’t give it up. Her daughter, Kerry, said that her insides must be black.
“Hiya, Shell.” Pam leaned over to open the door, then began throwing stuff into the back seat. “I’ve had a letter off the hospital about my gallstones.”
All Pam’s conversations began as if you hadn’t stopped talking since you last saw her; they were as cluttered as her car. The heater was on high, belting out a stinging warmth that smelled of the little cardboard pine-tree air freshener dangling from the rearview mirror.
“What gallstones?”
“Well, they may not be. I’ve got to go in on the fifteenth. Typical—that’s the day John wants the car to go and see his sister in Tamworth. I said to him, ‘You’ll have to fix another day.’ He says he doesn’t want to mess her around. Don’t get me wrong—I’ve got a lot of time for his sister.”
Pam’s husband, John, was meant to do the books for the cleaning business, but as far as Shelley could see he sat in front of the telly and did nothing, while Pam went driving about all over the place like a mad thing, and the car was forever breaking down. John used to be a plasterer. He was supposed to have damaged his leg years ago, falling from a scaffold, but Shelley had seen him limp with a different leg on different days. Pam was a good worker, though. Once she got into a job, she stuck at it until the sweat was running off her; she wouldn’t give up. Shelley was like that, too. They didn’t make a bad team.
They crossed the river. It was at low tide, sunk to a twisting channel between flanks of mud glinting with moonlight. A notice outside the red brick warehouse, which was not much more than a two-story shed, warned that it was patrolled by security dogs, but there was no sign of them. Pam parked in the empty lot, and they got out some of their kit from the boot; the employers were supposed to provide equipment, but sometimes they left out broken old mops or brooms so heavy you could hardly lift them.
Shelley switched her mobile off before she started working; otherwise, she couldn’t concentrate. Her son, Anthony, was in [REDACTED]. Roy said that statistically Anthony would be in more danger if he were still playing with his rugby club, but Shelley was always waiting for some dreadful kind of message. There was a big operation under way. Anthony had told them that he’d had his leave cancelled, but Roy was sure that he’d volunteered to stay. It wasn’t only that her son might be killed or injured—Shelley pushed those possibilities right down in her mind until they weren’t any more than shapes in the dark. She never watched the news; she only listened in from the kitchen while the others watched it. But when there was that fuss about the friendly-fire incident with the Danish soldiers, she fixated on the idea that Anthony had been involved in it, even though Roy insisted that he’d been nowhere near where it had happened. “Why d’you have to make up trouble,” he said, “as if there wasn’t enough of the real thing?”
Inside, the warehouse was a big open hall, divided into metal cages piled high with different grades of insulating material. Yellow forklifts were parked, as if resting, in the aisles between them. Fibrous orange dust was everywhere, but Shelley and Pam weren’t contracted to clean the warehouse itself—the men were supposed to do that. The canteen and toilets were along one wall, the offices upstairs on a sort of mezzanine. You could see why they needed the scrub-off: the regular cleaners hadn’t been doing much of a job. All the pipes in the canteen were thick with dust. Under the plate rack on the draining board and at the bottom of the plastic pot for the cutlery was a murky gray sludge. The toilets stank; the cleaners had actually mopped around a roll of toilet paper that had fallen onto the floor, not bothering to pick it up. One of the sinks was blocked and full of scummy water.
To be fair, Pam said, the boss had only been paying the regulars for two hours a day, which wasn’t enough: there was a kitchenette and a separate toilet upstairs with the offices, too. Two hours would be just enough time to wash the cups and plates and put them away, and give the toilets a quick once-over; to do the place properly you’d need four hours at least. Shelley knew what it was like if you had a job like this: you got your regular routine going, and then that was all you saw; you played your music and went into a kind of dream, wiping and sweeping, until you hardly knew what you were doing, just going through the motions. But she wasn’t the sort of person who took on this kind of work as a regular thing. She had a job at a school as a lunchtime supervisor. She wasn’t such a fool, either—she knew that, somewhere like this, if they saw that you were keeping it clean in two hours they’d cut you down to an hour and a half. Why should you care whether the place was as filthy as hell?
By the time the men came in at eight, Shelley and Pam had finished the kitchen and Shelley had just got going on the toilets. One man barged in, despite the notice she’d put on the door, and then looked surprised to see her scrubbing on her knees with her backside in the air.
“What d’you need to go for already?” she said, pulling out one earphone from her music player. “You only just got here!”
He was sheepish. “Two cups of tea for breakfast. Bladder control’s not what it used to be.”
“Use the one upstairs.”
“Don’t tell me they piss the same stuff as we do?”
“You’re not coming near my toilets until they’re spotless.”
It was better when the men were in. There was always the opportunity for a bit of a joke. He probably liked the sight of my backside better than my face, she thought when she got up to refill her bucket and caught sight of herself in the mirror above one of the sinks, a square of polished tin screwed onto the wall. Once upon a time, the idea of the man enjoying looking at her would have started something, one of those games, looking out for him among the others, bantering with him. She used to make herself dizzy, imagining other men, though it hadn’t gone further in reality, or not very often. She could remember once, not all that long ago, when she would have fallen to the bedroom floor if Roy hadn’t held her up while they were kissing—she’d been dragged down so powerfully by her own sensations. If it wasn’t the thought of Roy that had started her off that night, he hadn’t known it—he’d got lucky anyway. In the last year or so, those dizzy fantasies and their sensations had stopped, cut off as abruptly as if someone had pulled a switch, only the memory of them left like markers on the surface above deep water. She supposed that it was her time of life, though it felt more as if she were holding herself apart from her own body, afraid to leave off being vigilant for a moment.
There were worse things than going to fat like Pam, Shelley thought. In the mirror, she looked sharp enough to cut something, hard fixed lines beside her mouth, her eyes too big, her cheekbones jutting like knuckles under her skin, up to her elbows in dirty work, cleaning toilets. The wall behind the urinals was tiled to about halfway up: at first it didn’t look too bad, and she thought she wouldn’t need to wash it all. But once she began to scrub, the contrast between the cleaned area and the rest was just too obvious; she saw that she’d have to go over the whole lot. She squatted to get at the run of tiles between the urinals and a little gutter along the floor. The caustic fumes caught in her throat, and she pressed her nose into the sleeve of her old tracksuit top. Pam, meanwhile, was covering the rooms upstairs. The office workers were no cleaner: where they’d warmed up soup in the microwave, Pam reported, the dirty bowls were left out on the desks.
There were nine or ten men at work on the warehouse floor, mostly middle-aged, all wearing blue overalls with the company logo; the forklifts trundled up and down with armfuls of the insulation wadding packed in plastic wrap for dispatch, beeping when they reversed. The younger men listened to music through headphones as they worked, which was what Shelley did, too. Her MP3 player had been a Christmas present from Kerry the year before. She’d wanted at the time to give it back; she’d never have an occasion to use it, she said, and Kerry shouldn’t have been spending her money on presents, anyway—she’d have enough to spend it on when the baby came.
“You’re such an ungrateful cow,” Kerry had said cheerfully. “Just wait and see.”
Roy hadn’t seemed to mind the sight of his seventeen-year-old daughter with her pregnant belly swollen out like a football. Like a bomb, Kerry put it.
“She was so clever at school. I wanted her to do something better,” Shelley had said. “Not just what the rest of them around here do—shelling out more kids.”
“Not so clever at biology,” Roy said.
“I will do something better,” Kerry reassured her. “Later.”
“Don’t think you’re going to be leaving it for me to look after. Just when I’ve got my own life back.”
But the baby—Morgan—was so alert, twisting her head in her pushchair to follow where the conversation went, her eyes drinking everything in. She’d walked at only nine months, right from the kitchen into the living room the very first time; you had to watch her every minute.
When Shelley went for a fag break in the parking lot, she switched her phone back on for a few minutes. There was only a text from Roy, who drove a courier van—something stupid. He was always on the lookout for the funny names they gave to hairdressers and fishmongers and so on: A Cut Above, The Plaice to Go, that sort of thing. She supposed it passed the time.
“Anyway, I took my net curtains down,” Pam said, when Shelley went through the side door into the canteen. Tea bags were bobbing, leaking color, in two mugs of milky water. “I don’t know when I’ll get them back up again.”
“Why’s that then?”
“Didn’t I tell you my washing machine’s bust? The whole kitchen was flooded. John sent me a picture of it on my mobile while I was at the back of the queue in the post office—it was the last day for mail-order returns. Now I’ve got this pair of trousers I can’t get into.” 
“I can’t believe he just sent you the picture.”
“He claimed he didn’t know where I kept the mop.”
Roy said that Pam had to be getting something out of her relationship with John or else she wouldn’t keep on with it. Is that how it is? Shelley wondered. What we get is what we really want?
Back in the bathroom, she started on the sinks. The fibrous wadding the men worked with got everywhere; it had stained the enamel orange-pink. She had to use a toothbrush to scrub where it had mixed with green soap from the dispenser, then caked in mineral crusts around the base of the taps, around the plughole and the overflow. One of the young ones hurrying in the door, hanging onto himself through his overalls, stopped short at the sight of her; she told him to use a cubicle.
“Don’t get dripping on my floor,” she said, “or there’ll be trouble. I know what boys are like.”
When Anthony was a teen-ager, he’d been as tense as a whiplash, swaggering around with his shirt half unbuttoned, his eyebrows pierced, stinking to heaven of Lynx aftershave, hanging out with all the worst types on the estate. Even when he was a tiny boy and really did look like an angel, he’d always given her trouble. She’d had to wrestle with him just to get his clothes on in the mornings. She’d been called in to school by his teacher time and again because he was fighting or disrespectful. But sometimes when Shelley had dropped him off in the junior playground he’d put his finger on his cheek to show her the exact spot where he wanted her to kiss him goodbye—their little joke from when he was a baby. She and Roy had split up for a while when Anthony was eighteen months, and after they’d got back together she’d had Kerry. Anthony was the one who looked like Shelley, not how she looked now but how she used to: skinny and fair, with big hungry eyes. She hadn’t been able to believe it when he’d got into the Army. She couldn’t understand why they’d want a boy like him.
“They’ll soon have him sorted out,” she said, but actually she’d been so angry that she couldn’t forgive him—or anyone else, either. She’d blamed Roy for reading war books and leaving them lying round the house. Or it was Anthony’s girlfriend’s fault: Leanne only wanted the money for those two kids who weren’t Anthony’s. She didn’t care what he had to do to get it.
“He’s going to make a proper career for himself,” Roy had said. “You ought to be proud of him, working so hard to pass his qualifications.”
It wasn’t that she wasn’t proud of Anthony. The Army really had sorted him out: the first time he came home on leave, he was tanned from training outdoors, his neck had thickened and his shoulders bulked out. He’d had his hair cropped short, and he seemed calmer and more deliberate. “I didn’t do too bad,” he said, his glance slipping away from his mother, toward the others. He’d never done a day’s hard work in his life, and now suddenly he seemed weighed down with sense and responsibility.
At first, whenever he was on leave he was keen to hang about with his old no-good friends, but eventually he lost interest in them. He said they were going nowhere, smoking themselves silly, which was just what Shelley had always told him. His officers thought he was dedicated, a good soldier.
Since Anthony had been posted to [REDACTED], Roy had gone on the Internet and found out everything about what was going on there. He followed it on the blogs and on YouTube. He talked about “the lines” and “advance to contact” and “hearts and minds.” Shelley thought this talk made Anthony uncomfortable, because it was impossible for him to share with them what really happened out there. He’d told them once about clearing out Taliban compounds after an attack and finding the bloody clothes they’d left behind when they retreated with their dead and wounded; it had occurred to Shelley that he must have seen much worse than bloody clothes, and then she guessed that he was describing the clothes because he couldn’t talk about the other things. Whenever they parted now, he kissed her as if he were putting her aside, kindly but firmly.
She felt around in the blocked sink with her rubber gloves, poking into the plughole with the toothbrush, pulling at the ends of the fibres caught in the trap, tugging and coaxing until she began to deliver up out of the drain a nasty mass, a thick rope of hair and soap and matted insulation, in a gulp of bad drain smell. Triumphant, she flopped it out onto the enamel, black-green and slimed. The foul water, released, went gurgling down the pipe, and at that moment Shelley was washed through with one of her hot flashes. She had to stop to tear her gloves off inside out, flap her T-shirt, lift her hair away from her blazing neck. She leaned forward over the sink, unexpectedly dizzy, taking her weight on her arms, and staring down into the dark passage of the drain, understanding it for a few seconds as if it opened a way out of the world, or into it. Then, hearing the boy flush the toilet in the cubicle behind her, she scooped up the nasty mess with some paper towels and dropped it into the black bag she had with her for rubbish, so that he would not have to see it.
When the job was finished, they packed away their gear; the parking lot was full now, but there was no one about outside. Pam struggled to start the car: she always gave it too much choke, Roy said. Shelley, in the passenger seat, turned on her mobile. There was a bad moment every time, while the logo appeared and the music chimed. She expected the worst then; she seemed to be staring out for it greedily, her heart straining.
“All right?” Pam asked her.
The little car, after its hacking convulsions, rocked into silence, resigned.
“All right,” Shelley said. “Nothing.”
They sat there for a few minutes, too tired to move, giving the car time to recover, talking about their Christmas shopping, who they’d bought for, what they still had to get. More than half the short winter’s day had passed while they were in the warehouse. The sky was a blue so pale that it was almost no color; wooded bluffs loomed above them, beyond the industrial estate, marking the edge of the city. The sun had dropped behind the bluffs already, so that the tops of the bare trees showed up finely spiky, like hair or fur, against a yellow glow of light from somewhere out of sight. While they waited, their breath began to fog up the car windows. 

