AMONG ANIMALS AND PLANTS
By Andrei Platonov

In the gloom of nature, a man with a hunting rifle was walking through sparse forest. The hunter’s face was a little pockmarked, but he was handsome and, for the time being, still young. At this time of year, a whiff of mist hung in the forest—from the warmth and moisture of the air, the breath of developing plants, and the decay of leaves that had perished long ago. It was difficult to see anything, but it was good to walk alone, to think without meaning, or to do the opposite—to stop thinking altogether and just droop. The forest grew on the slope of a low hill; large boulders lay between the small thin birches, and the soil was infertile and poor—clay here, gray earth there—but the trees and grass had got used to these conditions, and they lived in this land as best they could.
Sometimes the hunter would stop for a moment; then he would hear the many-voiced drone of the life of midges, small birds, worms, and ants, and the rustle of the lumps of earth that this population harried and shifted about, so as to feed itself and stay active. The forest was like a crowded city—not that the hunter had ever been to a city, but he had been trying to imagine one for a long time. Once, he had passed through Petrozavodsk, but even that had been only in passing. Screeches, squeaks, and a faint muttering filled the forest, perhaps indicating bliss and satisfaction, perhaps indicating that someone had perished. Moist birch leaves shone in the mist with the green inner light of their lives; invisible insects were rocking them in the steamy damp rising from the earth. Some far-off small animal began to whimper meekly in its hiding place; no one was doing it any harm there, but it was trembling from the fear of its own existence, not daring to surrender to its own heart’s joy in the loveliness of the world, afraid to make use of the rare and brief chance of inadvertent life, because it might be discovered and eaten. But then the animal should not really even have been whimpering: predators might notice and devour it.
The whistle of a locomotive, thin, distant, shredded by the whirlwind of speed, sounded through the forest and the mist, like the plaintive voice of an exhausted running man. “The Polar Arrow!” the hunter said to himself. “What a distance it runs! There’s music playing in the coaches. Clever people are travelling in them. They drink pink water from bottles, and they talk in conversations.”
The hunter began to feel bored in the forest. He sat down beside a tree stump and held his rifle between his legs, ready to hand; he wanted to kill some animal or bird, whatever appeared. It enraged him that he didn’t know science, that he didn’t travel in trains with electricity, that he hadn’t seen Lenin’s mausoleum and had only once smelled a whiff of perfume, from a bottle that belonged to the wife of his boss, the director of Section 10. It was his lot to wander about in a misty forest, among insects, plants, and a general absence of culture, while luxurious trains hurtled into the distance. “Animal or bird—whatever shows up, I’ll kill it!” the hunter resolved. But, as before, there was nothing around—only the rustle and hum of petty, frail creatures that weren’t worth a battle. Beneath the hunter crawled diligent ants, burdened like respectable little people with heavy loads for their households. They are vile creatures, he thought, with the character of kulaks. They spend all their lives dragging goods into their kingdom; they exploit every solitary animal, big and small, that they can dominate; they know nothing of the universal common interest and live only for their own greedy, concentrated well-being. Once, the hunter had happened to see two ants dragging an iron filing from the railway line: it seems that ants even need iron. The hunter stamped on some of the nearest ants, then moved away, so as not to enrage himself further. He was like his father: his father also got angry whenever he went out hunting, waging war on the birds and the beasts as if they were ferocious enemies, expending every last bit of malice in his heart while he was in the forest, and then returning home a kind, sensitive family man. Other hunters weren’t like this at all; they wandered tenderheartedly through the grass, killing animals with love and caressing flowers and trees with trembling pleasure, while at home, among people, they lived lives of irritation, longing to be back in nature, where they could feel that they were the ones in charge, thanks to their rifles.
“A man hunts, Ivan Alekseyevich, either out of stupidity or out of poverty!” his father would say to him. (When Fyodorov reached the age of eighteen, his father had begun to call him by his name and patronymic.) “You know—a man sits by a lake with a rod, all on his own. The bastard hooks a worm onto a line and deceives some mindless creature that lives in the water, while another man takes his rifle and goes off into the forest. ‘I don’t need anyone,’ he says. ‘You carry on without me—I’ll fend for myself. I’m all right on my own, thank you very much.’ That man’s friend is his dog, not you or me.”
Fyodorov picked up his rifle. Something had stirred in the short grass nearby. He walked a little way in that direction and found a small hare—still a baby. He was sitting there almost humanly, rapidly chewing a blade of grass and using his tiny front paws to steady it. Then he wiped his face and began to take quick breaths of the clean, healthy air. Most likely, he was exhausted from having to find nourishment for himself; probably his parents were dead and he was living alone, an orphan. The hare did not notice the hunter, or did not understand his significance. He urinated, leaped up, and disappeared. Fyodorov didn’t kill him; the hare was too small, almost useless as food, and it would have been a shame, because the hare was only a child, yet already a true worker. Let him go on breathing.
Soon afterward, Fyodorov came out into a clearing. The same chubby little baby hare was burrowing in the earth with his paws, trying to dig up some rootlets or a cabbage leaf that had been dropped on the ground last year. The hare’s concern for his own life was inexhaustible, and his desire for food was constant. After eating whatever was there in the ground, the hare defecated a little and played with his tail. He then began to bat one of his paws with the other three; after that he played with the remains of some dead bark, with bits of his own droppings, and even with empty air, trying to catch it between his front paws. Finding a puddle, the hare had a good drink, looked all around with moist, conscious eyes, then lay down in a little pit to one side, curled up into the warmth of his own body, and dozed off. He had already tasted all the delights of life: he had eaten, drunk, breathed, inspected the locality, felt pleasure, played a bit, and fallen asleep. Sleep was good, too: animals nearly always have happy dreams. Fyodorov still remembered the surprise he had felt when, as a child, he had cautiously watched sleeping dogs, cats, and chickens. They had made chewing motions with their mouths and produced blissful sounds, sometimes half opening eyes blind with sleep and then closing them again, stirring a little, and moaning because of the sweetness of their own existence.
The hunter approached the little hare, picked him up, and tucked him against his chest. The hare let out a squeak but did not wake; he just curled up tighter and pressed himself against the man’s body for warmth, even though he was hot and damp already.
On Lobskaya Hill, like a constellation of impoverished stars, stood a hamlet of four little huts. The huts were small, poor, and unpainted, but they were cozy to live in, and so they seemed adequate, even spacious. The hunter went into the poorest, humblest hut. Its wooden roof had rotted and was covered with ancient moss. The lowest logs were now buried in the earth, as if returning to their birthplace, and from these logs, from the very lowest part of the hut, were growing two new weak branches, which would one day turn into mighty oaks and eat with their roots the dust of this dwelling that had been exhausted by the wind, the rain, and the human race. The hut stood on its own patch of land, which was walled off by stakes, stones brought from the shore of Lake Onega and piled up haphazardly, and rusty sheets of roof iron, probably carried here from some distant town by a gale. But this wall no longer held; the stones were falling down and the stakes had keeled over. One might have thought that this was the home of a struggling widow with small children, but, no, not at all—a complete and healthy family lived here. Were they slovenly, then, or always quarrelling? Far from it: the oldest man in the house, Aleksey Kirillovich, Fyodorov’s father, was making a career for himself at the sawmill and hoping to build a new home soon; then he would leave the hut to be consumed by the roots of the young oak. The old man was counting on life’s taking a turn for the better; he had resolved to say a fond farewell to the past and forget it.
Inside, the whole family was sitting together. The old father was putting the radio into action—a single-valve wireless he had won about a month before. In actual fact, he was buying it from the trade-union committee, paying for it in installments, but at home, for the sake of his wife, he’d said that it had been given to him as a prize. The old man worked as a guard at the mill, yet even he wanted honor from his family and dreamed of becoming renowned throughout the nation. But his old woman soon discovered just how honorably her husband had been awarded his radio—how can you keep the truth from an experienced wife?
Fyodorov put the little hare down by the stove and took his ten-month-old daughter in his arms. She could already stand up and was learning to move around on her own feet: in fifteen years’ time she would be ready to marry and would get down to having children herself—but for now let her just rest and grow in her parents’ arms.
“One little hare—is that all you’ve brought?” Fyodorov’s young wife asked. “You’ve got a family—you need to think a little when you’re out and about. There are squirrels in the forest now, there’s grouse, there’s blackcock—and what do you bring back for us? A baby hare for us to play with! Pah! Wasting cartridges when you could be buying something we need!”
“Women have loved prosperity since time immemorial,” Fyodorov’s father observed. “They want everything, and lots of it—squirrels, grouse, and trunks full of cloth. Today they’d be called Socialists.”
And he turned on the wireless straightaway, so as to hear that other world that lay beyond them, where universal history was happening and you could listen to the voices of the movers of fate.
First, an old man spoke, then a young man. Then a band played a mysterious song; a pipe from the steppe sang out; a bell was ringing. Next, a choir of young girls began a song about heroic Socialism, about happy people, about interesting life. The girls were singing far away, but the sense of the music remained clear: people should live in bliss, not in need and torment. Fyodorov caressed his little daughter, stroking her head, her chest, and her tummy, where one day her own children would be conceived and do their growing. They would be higher people, although he himself—their grandfather—was a nobody, just a switchman on a section of double track in a forest. The child was also listening to the music, but his wife, laboring at the stove, was drawing economic and cultural conclusions: “The life people live—you can hear it even from here! They buy new clothes, and they build houses, and they eat sweetly and well, and they go to theatres. They dance and sing and study science, and they swim in the Black Sea—while here we’ve got nothing but work and worry.”
“All too true!” the old woman said. “Other men do a bit of this, a bit of that, and, before you know it, there’s another kopek in the house. But you two don’t know the meaning of work. You get back home and what do you do? You just sit about. Go and float logs! Ask in the barracks—there are new stoves to be made, tree stumps to be dug up, and they always need someone to skivvy in the kitchens. If you don’t do something soon, it’ll be the end of us!” By now, the old woman had hit her stride, her whole body shaking with rage in the middle of the hut. “But you two just sprawl about! Or you take your rifles and it’s off into the forest! What for? What good does it do, wandering about under oak trees? Are there hens and piglets out there? Are the branches hung with cloth? Pah! And as for your tiny hares and baby grouse—if you brought them back by the cartload, well and good, but what’s the use of just one or two? Not even a mouthful for an old woman like me! And don’t you listen there to that trumpet of yours when I’m speaking—make it shut up!”
The old man turned off the wireless, and went on listening affectionately to his wife. He couldn’t be bothered to argue with her; it was best to let her run out of steam on her own. Then she’d turn kinder again.
But the old woman went into action. She grabbed the hare baby, who was huddling against the oven fork beneath the stove, and began dragging him across the floor with her left hand as she beat him with her right, first on the behind and then on the ribs—it hurt more there, so venting her rage was all the sweeter. The hare trailed along the floor, suffering this calamity in silence, until the old woman came to the end of her dark strength. Then she picked the hare up and flung him outside—he was no use to them, and she did not want him soiling the hut. The hare hid in the grass, lamented a little in his own way, then tidied his fur, crept through a gap in the fence, and disappeared into the forest, putting aside his recent grief for the sake of future life.
Fyodorov’s wife took the little girl from him—it was time to feed her. She was already dozing. She had watched the hare long enough.
“Comrade Kaganovich is in charge of transport. Yes—Lazar Moiseevich,” the old woman said. “I listen to the radio and I know everything. You know how people live these days? People everywhere are living with pleasure. But look at you—just look at the two of you!” she went on, turning toward her husband and son. “Sitting there with faces like plucked chickens!”
The old man and his son felt their faces, which were indeed a bit pockmarked. Not that this would cost them anything: they didn’t lack people who loved them. Should Aleksey Kirillovich die, there would be at the very least two people weeping for him: his wife and his son. And that was enough.
“Turn on the wireless,” the old woman ordered her husband. “I need to listen—otherwise I’ll miss something and I’ll carry on living in darkness, and all the benefit will go flying by.”
The head of the family turned on his machine. First, the wireless came out with a moral admonition, then tender music began to play. The old woman put her right hand to her cheek and looked wistful; then she began to smile. She would have liked to be kind all the time, but that was not possible—everything would get eaten up, drunk, or worn out, the men would stop working, and the whole family would die of want. The hut and its land would be taken over by forest, and the hare would come out of the bushes and soil what had once been a dwelling of the human race.
It was night, and Ivan Alekseyevich Fyodorov was beginning his day’s work. Section 10 was in the middle of nowhere, and there was little to be done in the way of loading or unloading. Fyodorov examined and cleaned his switches and inspected the crossovers with his lantern. He was always afraid for them—the locomotives gave them quite a pounding, and one day the metal might crack. If Fyodorov could have become an engineer, he would have invented some better kind of switch—a switch that a train would pass over smoothly. He knelt down and crawled from the switch rails to the frog of the crossover, sliding his hand along the running surface and the head of the rail and feeling for possible corrugations or dents, or burrs shaved off by the wheels of the locomotives. He could find no damage—one small indentation, but nothing dangerous.
Fyodorov cleaned off the old grease and applied generous quantities of new grease to all the areas of friction, the thicker the better. He had noticed that, when a heavy train passes over, a well-greased switch rail has some play, as if swimming in the grease. Let it play, then—play protects! If something isn’t stressed, it won’t be tormented and it won’t break.
When he first began to work on the railway, Fyodorov had treated metal and machines as he treated animals and plants—with caution and foresight, trying not only to get to know them but also to outwit them. Then he had realized that such a relationship was insufficient. Being with metal and machines required a great deal more sensitivity than being with wild animals or with plants and trees. You can outwit something living and it will yield to you; you can wound it and, being alive, it will heal. But machines and rails don’t yield to cunning—they can be won over only by pure goodness—and you can’t afford to wound them, because they don’t heal. A break is mortal. And so Fyodorov behaved sensitively and carefully at work; he even avoided slamming the door of his little cabin, closing it silently and delicately, so as not to disturb the iron hinges or loosen their screws.
The railwayman on duty phoned the cabin: Fyodorov was to check the switches and signal “Line clear” so that the express could pass. Fyodorov knew the time of the train, anyway. He was already looking into the forest, along the dark cut where the track lay. There was no moon, and the stars were high and faint, but the rails shone clear and far, as if they were gathering, out of the poverty of darkness, the light that had been scattered in the gloom. Fyodorov lay down with his ear to the rail and heard the metal’s eternal song—its response to the flow of the air and to the noise of leaves and branches. The rails were singing in tune—the whole stretch was intact and healthy. But gradually this steady wavelike hum was joined by a vague extraneous mutter. Then this mutter grew more distinct and insistent; it was almost articulating words. This language was being sung by a young voice, and there were no false notes, no sounds of jangling irritation—proof that there were no cracks in the rails and that the metal had not been worn away at the joints. The switchman lifted his head from the rail, blew his nose, brushed the dirt off his clothes, and adopted a serious, dignified expression. Bound for Murmansk, an express was hurrying through from the south. The locomotive’s calm light rose up from the horizon, chasing the darkness forward through the forest, lighting up deep-blue living trees, bushes, mysterious objects invisible during the day, and the figure of a switchman, watching over the track in darkness and solitude. Fyodorov played a long welcoming note on his horn to signal that the section was ready for the train to enter, and respectfully held his lantern out toward the engineer, his unknown friend, the only person who was aware of him at that moment, and who would be pleased that all was as it should be.
He’s really tearing along, Fyodorov thought. I won’t hear any music. He’s four minutes late and he’s going full steam ahead, the devil! If the Polar Arrow or some other fast train went by slowly, Fyodorov could sometimes make out the sound of the radio or a portable gramophone. For a few seconds, he’d listen intently to the melody, oblivious of all other noise. If there was no music playing, he was happy just to catch sight of some strange or handsome face looking out the window at the region’s unfamiliar forests. It was all the same to the switchman whether the face belonged to a man, a woman, or a child; nor did it matter where the person was going—just as long as the face was interesting and incomprehensible. Occasionally, after a train had passed, Fyodorov would discover some object on the track and try at length to fathom its significance. Then he would try to imagine the person it had belonged to, and he would feel at peace only when he had formed in his imagination a clear picture of the unknown passenger who had hurtled by. Once, he’d found a lady’s handkerchief; it had had a pleasant smell, and there was fresh blood in the middle of it. He’d touched the damp cloth with his tongue; the moisture was salty—probably tears. Then he’d had to rack his brain for a long time in order to imagine fully for himself the mysterious, pretty woman who had dropped this handkerchief from the back of the coach, crying and yearning for the man she loved, coughing blood into the handkerchief because of the consumption that burned in her chest. Afterward, Fyodorov had dreamed of this woman. Her little daughter had bitten her tongue and made it bleed; the girl had started to cry and the mother had wiped away her tears and blotted up the blood with the handkerchief, looked out through the open window of the carriage, thrown the handkerchief outside, and smiled at the switchman. “Wind up your gramophone!” Fyodorov had called to the woman. “On the way back!” the passenger had answered. “All right,” the switchman had agreed. “But make it nice and loud!”
Sucking up all the air behind it, the train gave the switch a merciless working over.
“Aha! Kaganovich really has given you a fright. Four minutes late out of the forest—and only three at the switch!” Fyodorov calculated. “Dramatic stuff!”
But there was no chance now of hearing music from the train or being able to make out a human being. Formerly, the water from the toilets had flowed out in a stream, but now it was thin vapor—the speed of the train tore it into prickly spray.
The thought of not hearing music made Fyodorov sad for the rest of the night. His section of track had no theatre and no library; there was only the track inspector’s accordion, and the track inspector seldom visited this section and when he did he often forgot to bring his accordion, even though he had given a written promise to the local trade-union committee to take it with him wherever he went and to go to all the Red Corners and play the new repertoire, omitting the chaos that had been condemned in the [REDACTED] newspapers. One summer, a member of the Writers Union had come and given a talk about the current state of creative dialogue among writers. Fyodorov had asked sixteen questions and had been given “The Travels of Marco Polo” as a present; the writer had then left. The book was extremely interesting; Fyodorov had at once begun reading, from page 26. At the start of a book, a writer is just thinking, and that makes it dull; the most interesting part is the middle, or the end, which was why Fyodorov preferred to choose pages at random—now page 50, now page 214. And although every book is interesting, reading this way makes it even better, and still more interesting, because you have to imagine for yourself everything you have skipped, and you have to compose anew passages that don’t make sense or are badly written, just as if you, too, were an author, a member of the Soviet Union’s Writers Union. Fyodorov had been so carried away by one book—“Lime,” or was it “Stone”?—that he had read it from the end all the way to the beginning and had realized that it was a good book but that if you began at the beginning it would be false and ideologically suspect.
For three hours that night, there were no trains; somewhere there had been a delay or an accident. The switchman examined the switch again, checking that the express had done no damage, then went into his cabin, pulled the door to, and played a few notes on his signal horn. But this was unsatisfying. Fyodorov wanted to hear a melody in an orchestra and to watch a spectacle in a theatre, so as to have some understanding in his soul about the truth of life and to see the universal horizon.
In the morning, his wife, Katerina Vasilievna, came out to him. “Let me clean the switch for you!” she said. “Maybe someone will notice. Nowadays, these things do get noticed. You must try your hardest.”
“There’s no need,” Fyodorov said. “The relief will be here soon. He doesn’t need a soubrette!”
“What do you mean, soubrette?” his wife exclaimed furiously. “Who taught you that word? You didn’t know it yesterday. Have you been seeing someone here during the night?”
Fyodorov felt a little frightened. “I read it a year ago in a book. There was this king’s daughter—”
“I know, I know about you and your king’s daughter. And who was it getting friendly with junior switchwoman Fedotova the other day—right here at the switch? Along comes lover boy, and he sits down on the counterweight and takes her in his arms!”
“It wasn’t me!” Fyodorov said. “How could it have been? I was on duty.”
“I know it wasn’t you!” Fyodorov’s wife informed him. “As if I’d let you carry on like that and cause a disruption to transport!”
Katerina Vasilievna took a broom and began to sweep the track around the switch. Then she cleaned every speck of dirt off the switch itself and wiped the crossover and the two blades. The switch looked spick-and-span now, like a pot or a pan belonging to a fastidious old woman.
“I’m going to make an application. I want to be transferred to Bear Hill,” Fyodorov informed his wife. “There’s a big station there. There’s a theatre, a club, and a cinema. A man can develop himself there.”
“That’s all I need! You’ll develop yourself there—and then what’ll I do? Nowadays, there are fine clothes in the shops; the young girls look beautiful. You’ll leave me—you’ll leave me and the family here in Lobskaya Hill.”
Fyodorov reached out to his wife and carefully stroked her gleaming, pretty hair, so that she wouldn’t grieve in advance.
“Don’t,” she said, gently taking his hand away. “You might be seen by a supervisor on a flatcar. He’ll say you’re careless and negligent. There’s nothing to stop you stroking my hair at home—but you never remember.”
The switchman carried on trying to talk his wife round: “People have merry lives in Bear Hill. One can get oneself educated there, and it’s easier to be noticed.”
In her mind, his wife calculated all the mysteries, losses, and gains, trying to imagine how everything would turn out. “Could you become a renowned transport worker?” she asked.
“Yes,” Fyodorov answered obediently.
“All right, then,” she agreed. “Only I’m frightened you’ll stop loving me. What will become of me and our little girl then? I’m getting on now—I’m twenty-four.” She fingered a button on her husband’s shirt.
In answer, Fyodorov touched his wife on the shoulder. “I won’t stop loving you,” he said. “I’ve got a small heart. It hasn’t got room for anyone except you. And then you can start studying—you’ll like it. You’ll become a famous woman.”
“But it’s a long way to Bear Hill,” his wife said. “You’ll wear yourself out!”
“I’ll manage,” Fyodorov said.
His wife sat down on the rail and thought everything over once more.
“All right,” she agreed. “Write an application. And get them to give you a raise. And don’t go spilling ink on the paper again—if they think you’re illiterate, they’ll subtract your raise.”
Fyodorov looked at his wife and wondered, Is she beautiful or not? Her hair’s still black, she’s young. She’s not so bad.
The section director did not try too hard to hold Fyodorov back: Let the man go to a big station, let him develop himself. You can deny a man an extra ruble or one of life’s comforts, but you can’t deny him what he needs for his soul. You’ll end up with nothing—no man and no worker.
The switchman began travelling to Bear Hill. He would be away from his family for two or three days at a time—he would stay on after his shift to watch a show, or he would go to the library and read books in the hall of culture, glancing admiringly now and then at the portraits of great writers and their various hangers-on. He would begin a book in the middle or at the end; he would read every other page or every third page, taking pleasure in the lofty thoughts of others and his own supplementary imagination. If his mind tired, he would go outside to air his head—but somewhere or other music would always be playing, either an accordion in a workers’ hostel or a gramophone in the window of a room belonging to a prosperous office worker. And Fyodorov would stand there for a long time, or perhaps sit down on some nearby rock, and hear the music through to the end; he would feel happy and ready for heroic deeds. But sometimes the music or what he was reading would all of a sudden cease to act on him—or, worse, he would fall into despair or irritation, no longer able to see the bright horizon promised to him by music, by reading, by the art of imagination and the excitement of a sensitive heart. It was as if he had become stupid and his soul had stopped caring about anything. Then, after reading a book on dialectical materialism, Fyodorov understood that a contradiction was at work inside him, and this was why he was sometimes gripped by a dark, alien sadness. But, insofar as that was the truth, how sad that there was no way out from the truth.
Eventually, having worked, read books, and listened to music to his heart’s content, Fyodorov would go home to Lobskaya Hill, to the hut that was turning into the roots of an oak. Katerina Vasilievna would meet him, filled with anguish and zealous fury: it was clear that her husband loved another woman, a better woman, a beautiful stranger of a wicked woman. The switchman tried to explain to his wife that a wicked woman was still a woman—and therefore not so very different from a wife.
“All the same,” his wife began, and Fyodorov was unable to guess just what was going to be the same as what. “Maybe there is pleasure in Bear Hill,” she went on angrily, “but just look at the state of your switch! It’s filthy. And when are you going to make your mark in the world? When’s life going to get easier for us? I’d rather you’d stayed in Section 10 for the rest of your life—at least I could keep an eye on you here.”
Aleksey Kirillovich, after listening to scenes like this between his son and his daughter-in-law, would usually suggest to his son that they go out hunting, to be with animals and plants. A child is always precious, even when he’s no longer young. And sometimes women are a real burden on your soul—they make you want to give up. But who knows? Perhaps that’s how things have to be: after all, women are the ones who give birth to people. They’re in charge of humanity; they know best.
“You should find some disaster to prevent, Ivan Alekseyevich,” the old man once said to his son. “Heroism’s quite the thing these days.”
“Blockhead!” the old woman said. “Do you want our boy to die?”
“It’s not yet time for him to die,” the old man said. “And it could be a small disaster, nothing too serious.”
The old woman sighed and said, “When I look at you, old man, I wonder what on earth can have got into me when I was a girl and I chose you for my husband!”
“Find someone else, then!” the old man advised her.
“I may have to!” she agreed. “But first I need to plump up a bit. I had a fine figure once. I had curves. I was quite a woman. I only had to go out onto the street and stamp my foot and you men would all be filled with longing. I’ve wasted my life—I wish I could have it over again. Then you’d see me living it up! Still, why sit and moan? It’s not too late—I can have the life of a young woman now! Isn’t that what Soviet power’s all about?”
At Bear Hill, Fyodorov worked even more conscientiously and thoughtfully than he had done on Section 10. Here life had more culture and there was more supervising authority, so Fyodorov’s sense of himself was modest and shy—and this shyness increased his diligence. Constantly seeing powerful locomotives and precise signalling mechanisms, listening to the roar from the engines of heavy freight trains, the switchman felt that his reason had triumphed, as if he, too, were to blame for all this universal technological power and its charm. Secretly and hazily, he perceived the correspondence or kinship between music, books, and locomotives; machines and music seemed to him to have been invented by one and the same heart, a heart like his own.
The stationmaster had known his new switchman for a long time, ever since Fyodorov was a boy and used to go hunting with him. He kept him back awhile, then promoted him to senior switchman. Fyodorov was now in charge of a number of switches and the junior switchmen who operated them. Not knowing how to be in command of others, he began by doing all their work for them; he cleaned and greased the switches himself and went out to meet every train, even though the train was already being met by a junior switchman. The junior switchmen lived in bewilderment. “What is it, Ivan Alekseyevich? Aren’t we working-class enough for you? Why are you greasing the switches yourself? We haven’t been put here for nothing, you know.”
“But can you do everything the way I do?” Fyodorov asked.
“The way you do?” one elderly junior switchman said. “Not likely. We’ll do things better.”
“That’s as may be,” Fyodorov said gloomily. “You do a job. I work by feeling.”
Fyodorov spent some time checking the work of his juniors and realized that they did things well, but not better than he did. They had no idea that machines and mechanisms are orphans and that you need to keep them constantly close to your heart. Otherwise, you won’t notice when they’re ill and shivering—and then before you can do anything you’ll hear the sound of a crack in the switch and death.
After long hours of listening to the single-valve radio, Fyodorov’s mother ceased to hope for anything from her husband or her son. She had been feeling envious for a long time of the higher life of the state, where there was now heroism, renown, and vigor, and where the youth and strength of an old woman, vainly expended in deprivation and horror in the old days, were in demand again. With the diligence and reason she’d acquired through the hard task of managing a poor-peasant homestead, the switchman’s mother began work of state importance at the small tarworks five kilometres away. She sensed at once that it was not so very difficult to make tar, and her careful labor really did help the tarworks. It began to overfulfill its plan a little, and that autumn Fyodorov’s mother received a prize: a gramophone, along with twenty records, and a jacket. (The management promised to give her a skirt later, when their quota of woollen cloth was delivered.)
Aleksey Kirillovich fell into melancholy when his old woman was given a gramophone and a jacket. He tested his muscles, stroked his head thoughtfully, and felt the rest of his body: did he still have the strength for some powerful fame- and prize-winning action? Not that his old woman had been bragging, but he could hear her unspoken reproach: “Yes, there are important things going on in the world today. And you never take anything seriously!”
The old man sighed, picked up his rifle, and went off to the forest to shoot something.
“Where are you going?” his wife called out. “Off through the bushes again, getting your clothes torn? You’d do better to join a club and learn something or other. I suppose you’ll be back with a squirrel or a baby hare. A fine feast that’ll be!”
“Let me at least have a breath of oxygen!” the old man replied. “I want to supplement my strength so there’ll be more work capacity.”
“What do you mean, oxygen?” the old woman exclaimed in surprise. “I’ve never breathed oxygen in all my life—and look at me now! You can’t keep up with me.”
“I’m a backward old man,” Aleksey Kirillovich said.
“Backward? Come home empty-handed and I’ll really make you backward! Out there in the forest you’ve got to keep one step ahead—or you’ll get yourself eaten!”
Just then the son, who had come home from Bear Hill, asked his mother to wind up the gramophone.
 
“The old ones do the work, the young ones give the orders!” the mother said. She wound up the gramophone and put on a record of some merry music. She already understood all about the workings of the mechanism.
Katerina Vasilievna gazed wistfully at her husband.
“What’s the matter with you?” Fyodorov asked.
“Nothing. Only that I’ve got a man who’s good for nothing.” His wife turned away and began to cry. Other people had gramophones and jackets and husbands who were supervisors, but what did she have? Just a hut—and shared with her mother-in-law at that.
She bent down over her baby daughter’s cradle and fell silent in the sorrow of her fate.
Fyodorov looked out the window, into the forest: maybe he should run away. He was certainly never going to become any kind of supervisor himself—to be a supervisor you have to think special thoughts. But then one day the forest would be cut down. And it was getting better and better, more and more enigmatic, to be a part of humanity. Great machines and prefabricated palaces for the people were being transported along the railway on flatcars; thick books lay on the shelves of the library; splendid people were travelling in trains.
During his next shift, Fyodorov read an order from the stationmaster: from now on, senior switchman comrade Fyodorov was to receive an additional fifty rubles a month, and he was temporarily being appointed a coupler—a responsible position that many aspired to.
On a quiet, brief day well into autumn, crossties were being loaded onto flatcars at a dead-end siding. A dozen men and women were carrying crossties up little plank ramps, stacking them on cars, then going back down to lift another load onto their shoulders. Thus continued the circulation of labor.
The line out from the dead-end siding climbed straight up a hill, at a steep gradient; to pull fully loaded cars out of the siding, an engineer needed to have the regulator wide open and to use the sandbox, so that the driving wheels wouldn’t slip. At the siding itself, a whole team—six men and women—were lying beneath some closed cars and dozing; this team had not yet been given any cars. They had nothing to do and did not want to fritter away their strength with empty living.
Fyodorov was doing what he could for them at the station. He got an engine to bring an empty flatcar to the top of the slope that ran down to the siding, and he ordered the driver to stop; from there the car would freewheel down, and at the bottom he would stop it by placing a wedge between the rails. To keep the car from running away, Fyodorov stuck an old abandoned crosstie, which happened to be lying beside the track, beneath one pair of wheels and started to unhook the coupling and free the locomotive. But the car had rolled away from the locomotive, and the coupling was taut. Fyodorov called out to the driver, “Move up a bit!” The locomotive moved up, the coupling slackened, and Fyodorov easily slipped it off the hook.
The car began to pull Fyodorov away from the engine and down the slope. He grabbed the coupling with both hands to stop the car, but the moving wheels had cracked the crosstie he had put beneath them and the iron of the coupling was starting to burn his hands; the car was now poised at the top of the slope—and at the bottom of the slope people were working. Fyodorov dug in his heels, bracing his feet against one of the working crossties. His hands didn’t matter: the skin would burn, but it would heal again afterward. His legs began to ache from the effort. He was being dragged after the car. He understood that it was no good and let go of the coupling.
Down below him, people were working—and the population of the country was small enough as it was. Who would be left to live, who would remain for him to be friends with, who would play music if the runaway car were to crush these people to death? Fyodorov knew that there were women down there, too, and that they might give birth to people who would know how to write books, or to people with good characters and fine hearts, who one day would sing an unknown song or imagine in their souls a pockmarked switchman from Bear Hill and say, “Long ago there lived in the world a poor man.” He had to stop the car or else there would be fewer people, less humanity. There were animals and plants aplenty, but animals and plants were boring.
The car was gathering speed, and Fyodorov was running along beside it. He picked up planks and stakes from beside the track and flung them under the front wheels, but the car was going so fast that it crushed the wood to nothing and sped up even more. The world will be awful without them, Fyodorov thought, as he imagined the fate of the workers below him. They’ll be buried in coffins with flowers. There’ll be music, terrible music! He grabbed an iron crowbar that was lying on the ballast and, with precise aim, thrust it between the spokes of one of the rapidly revolving front wheels. The crowbar swung up into the air and the free end knocked Fyodorov off his feet and out of his senses, then threw him into the second wheel and smashed his head against the axle box. During the second or third revolution of the wheel, the crowbar began to twist and bend; the free end had caught against the ballast and the crossties. After digging into the sand between the crossties, it jammed between two of the spokes, went blue from the heat and tension at the point of flexion, and brought the car to a stop.
Fyodorov was lying in the sand. He could hear the engineer saying, “Fyodorov’s had it.”
No, Fyodorov thought. That’s not true.
And he stood up to see what had happened.
“Are you alive—or what?” the engineer asked.
“What about you?” Fyodorov asked, and felt that his right arm was all cold, as if ice had been tied to it and, instead of melting, was sucking the warmth out of his body, reaching with its cold to the very center of his heart.
“Let’s get on the engine and go back!” the engineer said.
But Fyodorov wanted something to drink. He turned on the tap in the tender and water began to pour into his mouth, while the blood from his right arm poured into his mitten and down the inside of his jacket; it was even making its way down his leg, inside his trousers and down to his foot. He realized that he was bleeding horribly—soon he might be completely empty—and he told the fireman to lift his right arm up into the air, so that it would not all flow out onto the earth.
They brought a stretcher and Fyodorov was laid down on it. He realized that they were having trouble getting his boots off; the right boot was full of blood, and his foot cloths had swollen up. “It’ll go dry and stiff in the coffin and then it will squeeze my foot,” Fyodorov said to himself. And he fell asleep in order not to know his death.
His father, his mother, and his wife all went to the hospital and stood by Fyodorov, but he did not notice them gathered around him.
“Ivanushka, what have you gone and done to yourself?” his mother kept saying. “We could have carried on as we were. We’re all right—we don’t need anything.”
It was some time before Fyodorov woke up. It was quiet, he was in a big bed, and everything around him felt cultured and scientific. He did not know whether he had a right arm or not. He could see it lying beside him, but he didn’t know if it was part of him or if it was lying there separately. He decided to experiment with it, and he made a small movement with his fingers. The fingers were alive: that meant that he would keep his hand and arm, and that death had been and gone long ago.
Soon afterward, all kinds of people came to visit him—the stationmaster, the Party organizer, Katerina Vasilievna, a photographer, the engineer, and two of the women who had been loading crossties at the siding. One of them brought Fyodorov a bouquet of flowers and two little cakes.
“He gets more than enough to eat here!” Katerina Vasilievna said to the women. “Why waste your money and disturb a sick man?”
The women went off in embarrassment.
When Fyodorov left the hospital, his right hand and arm functioned only feebly and partially.
“You’ve crippled yourself!” his family said. “How will you work now?”
“I’ll learn with my head!” Fyodorov said.
But most of the time his wife and his mother treated him kindly. The village soviet and the railway authorities gave him a thousand rubles and granted him a pension for life.
The stationmaster came to Lobskaya Hill every three or four days to visit Fyodorov and help him to study for a new job as a station duty officer. One day, a car climbed up to Lobskaya Hill and six people all arrived together, bringing him a telegram from [REDACTED] and congratulating him on the medal he was to be awarded.
Fyodorov was unable to sleep the next two nights because of a strong flow of thought. On the third day, the stationmaster once again made the sixteen-kilometre journey to him. But, instead of getting down to the science of efficient utilization of the railway network, he said, “Pack your things—we’re off to [REDACTED].” Fyodorov did not even have anything to eat; he just drank a glass of milk, kissed his wife and daughter outside the hut, and set off.
During the days that followed, Katerina Vasilievna felt very unhappy in Lobskaya Hill; she missed her husband terribly and often wept, hiding her grief from her parents-in-law. He’ll fall in love with a young parachutist! she thought. After all, they fly through the air, and I’ve heard they have such sweet little faces. Or maybe Comrade Kaganovich won’t want to let him go—and then what will become of me? Then she remembered that her husband’s right arm barely functioned and began to feel consoled: nobody would fall in love with a cripple; today’s young ladies weren’t stupid. But what about the medal? A medal was more important than an arm, and, anyway, her husband’s hand and arm were still whole! And Katerina Vasilievna once again forfeited her hope.
Fyodorov came back a month later. He was wearing a black flannel suit; he was all serene, like a stranger, and he was driven into the village in a car. His wife sat down in front of him and put her hands out to touch her husband and the cloth he was wearing.
“Was it good there?” she asked.
“Yes!” Fyodorov said. “I saw an American woman in the metro. She was brown.”
“Was she beautiful?” his wife asked.
“Nothing special,” the husband answered.
“So what are you now?” Katerina Vasilievna went on questioning. “A supervisor?”
“A senior switchman. Supervisors are learned people, and I’m not.”
He took out a medal in a box and showed it to his wife. Katerina Vasilievna took the medal and hid it in her trunk.
“I’m supposed to wear it. Why are you hiding it?” Fyodorov asked.
His wife gave him back the empty box.
“You can show people the box! Who do you want to go flaunting your medal to? We all know, anyway, and you don’t want to make people envious.”
His mother came out with his daughter. Fyodorov took the girl in his arms to caress her and to leave his mother free to weep a little from joy.
“Some man in Bear Hill has been given a medal, too,” his mother began, getting the better of her tears. “He brought back seven suits, two gramophones, and three watches. He had heaps of stuff with him—he needed a cart to get home from the station.”
“I was given five suits, too,” Fyodorov said.
“But he got seven!” the old woman repeated. “Anyway, where are these five suits of yours?”
“I only took one. You can’t wear five suits all at once—first you have to wear one of them out.”
His mother sat down on the floor, and his wife on the trunk.
“And how many gramophones were you given?” the old woman asked plaintively.
“I was given one, but I didn’t take it. We’ve got one already.”
“What about wristwatches?” his mother went on flatly.
“I was offered a wristwatch. But what do we want one for? Here at home we’ve got the pendulum clock, and at work I know the time from the trains—we’ve got a written timetable now!”
Mother and wife began to cry; Fyodorov wound up the gramophone, to entertain his little daughter with some music and because he wanted to have a listen himself.
“Where’s Father?” he asked.
“Wasting cartridges in the forest,” his mother answered without expression, through hot tears.
Fyodorov sat the child on his wife’s knees, took out a clean handkerchief, and wiped Katerina Vasilievna’s face. “Don’t cry,” he said. “I’ve brought you eight hundred grams of [REDACTED] chocolates and a complete library for the beginner reader.”
Then Fyodorov left the house and went into the forest to look for his father among animals and plants. 

