OR ELSE
By Antonya Nelson


“My family owns a house in Telluride” was his favorite, most useful line. He used it on a particular kind of girl or woman, somebody with whom he could not foresee a future, somebody who he knew would one day perceive him truly, with X-ray eyes, and move on. In the meantime, he could take her for a long weekend to Telluride.
She would be impressed by the modesty of the place. “It really is a shack,” he would insist during the drive from [REDACTED], the desert falling away mile by mile, shrubbery and rocks transforming subtly from prickly saguaro and desiccated scrub oak to piñon, then aspen and spruce, an escalation of markers by which David had measured his own evolution, from nagging anticipation to delighted arrival, for more than twenty-five years. Not much had changed on that journey, neither for David nor in the world around him. Yes, traffic in [REDACTED] was worse now; sure, the R.V. drivers had discovered Show Low; sadly, a piece of the petrified forest was on fire; and some gaudy casino had suddenly landed on the vast moonscape near the Navajo Nation. In Cortez, you had to detour through an endless engineering endeavor meant to straighten out the highway, which used to be sexy 666 but had been newly, inoffensively renumbered. And could it be trout farming below the dam at Dolores—square plastic-lined pools in which writhing motion could be detected, as if someone were boiling a great stew of fish rather than breeding them? But the most important things remained faithfully themselves, and David watched them pass as if they were winking at him, confirming their talismanlike role in his triumphant trajectory.
“You’re giddy,” his current companion noted, in her peculiarly deep voice. When would this voice cease surprising David? On the phone you could easily mistake it for a man’s voice. Its owner had not seen him this way before, unguardedly enthusiastic, and he knew that joy, like a child’s smile, made him appealing, and also somehow vulnerable. If she chose to, she could hold his joy, his childishness, in contempt. “Very cute,” she said, opening both windows on her side of the car so that she could smoke. Meanwhile, he held tight to the wheel and adhered to the speed limit, because he wanted nothing to interfere with his momentum, no rules to be broken, no winking signposts missed. Then they were at the penultimate turn, the box canyon just ahead, and the little town corralled within, its waterfall tumbling reliably at the precise center of the backdrop, a landscape painting by a sentimental artist.
“Telluride,” he announced in a tone that said ta-da!“The most beautiful place I’ve ever been.”
“But,” she exhaled, teasing, “where have you been?”
And he was too drunk with pleasure to do anything but laugh.
He narrated the noteworthy sites as they rolled past, those milestones of adolescence and young adulthood: the former train station, where he’d watched, one night in the late seventies, as the local firemen, drunk, set flame to an outbuilding and then extinguished it, which was their tradition. Only later did they discover that one of their volunteers had suffered heart failure in the hubbub. This man was the father of one of the boys who were watching, rolling their eyes at the antics of their elders, which were not so different from the antics of the youngsters crowded around a furtive campfire smoking cigarettes, on what was then the rugged other side of the river.
“That’s where we used to hang out on Friday and Saturday nights,” David told his passenger, pointing at the marble steps of a former bank, its stately window now cluttered with sunglasses. “Waiting to see where the party was. And that’s the bar that never carded, and up there is the historical museum, which we knew how to break into.”
“Why?”
He left off his wistful recitation to study her. “‘Why?’”
“Yeah. Why break into a museum? I mean, did you steal stuff?”
“No.” Well, yes. But not important stuff.
[REDACTED], he considered, was perhaps different from the other women he’d brought here. She was older, for one thing, forty-two to his thirty-nine. Had she outgrown not only adolescent rebellion but the memory of its allure? Maybe. Once, in the middle of making love, he’d asked her why she’d closed her eyes. “I’m pretending you’re someone else,” she said. David had ceased motion, no idea what to say. That was what was wrong with him—he was often left speechless, unsure whether he had a right to indignation or hurt feelings, unsure how exactly a person was entitled to react. “Who?” he’d finally asked. “My last boyfriend,” she told him, slipping away, pulling a pillow into an embrace between them. “He was a married man, and a lot older than me. He died a couple of years ago, of a heart condition. I don’t think of him the whole time—hardly ever, actually. I just was right then, when you asked.” She stared at David frankly, the pillow still clutched in her arms.
“And there’s the house,” David said now, making the turn that led up to the little home he loved more than any other place in the world.
“The house that caulk built,” the family fondly called it. Jack Hart had purchased this property forty years earlier, upon the birth of his first child, Priscilla. They’d been campers, the Harts, until Pris was born. Then Mrs. Hart had put her foot down; she said so whenever the story was told. “No infants in tents! No diapers in the wilderness!” A small house was found, there in the glorious dying mining town, on a hill, with views that were shockingly symphonic from the crooked front porch. The Harts had lived by the academic calendar; every summer, they’d fled the heat of [REDACTED] for a three-month respite in this tiny miners’ den, with its walls made of something called beaverboard sagging into the ground, atop a fading community of similar structures, occupied or abandoned by drunken miners and eccentric bar owners, Masons, shopkeepers—future ghosts. “The salt of the earth,” Dr. Hart would extoll. He taught American Studies; his interests were wider and perhaps more catholic than those of many of his ivory-tower cohorts. He found his summer town unpretentious, gritty, endearing. He became an Elk; he agreed to be deputized for the annual invasion of the Hell’s Angels on the Fourth of July. He invited his friends to visit, and his offspring did the same. The house was filled with impromptu dinner parties, bridge games, storytelling sessions over the sticky kitchen table, on which there always sat a large bottle of red wine.
At the house—which was now wedged, like a cartoon house, between big bullying mansions on either side—David parked. The air was bracing; the lack of oxygen meant that your breath was literally taken away. Around him, the peaks rose in their familiar battleship formation, proximate and daunting. They seemed poised to move, shift on their haunches, and shrug the tiny toy town aside. It was May, and they were still snow-covered; the aspens wore their nascent green, and on the streets below there was a resonant silence. The off season. A collective reverent rest between tourist onslaughts.
Up the crumbling concrete steps David led [REDACTED]; the door would be locked, the key long ago lost, he told her, but the west living-room window could be unlatched. It squealed when he yanked it up; to prop it open, he used the tubular cast-iron counterweight that sat, year after year, in a cluster of rusty or glass objects found on hikes and scavenging adventures and brought home as porch décor. Having crawled through the window, David took a moment to breathe in the peculiar scent of the house: coal dust, which still filled the inner walls and pooled at the base of the spongy panelling; stale sunlight, captured through the wavering glass of the west windows; the very faint odor of natural gas, from a leak that could never be located; and the simply unique smell of the Hart family itself. Home.
Then he went to the front door, on the other side of which waited [REDACTED], who was shivering, staring cross-eyed at the door handle rather than at the monstrous mountains around her. The elevation was nearly nine thousand feet; from bake-blasted [REDACTED], you had to bring sweaters and woollen socks as an act of faith. It was cold up here. At night, the stars devastated the clear, clear sky.
David Chalmers was a liar by nature and, now, by long habit. He lied when it wasn’t necessary, when it wasn’t even advantageous. He lied to amuse himself, to excuse himself, to camouflage himself. The Harts were not his family. He had been an honorary member, once upon a time, and then he had been banished, albeit gently.
He had found the family through Priscilla, the eldest daughter, who, at age nine, had insisted that he was the friend she wished to bring with her for the summer visit. Priscilla was a tomboy then, and David was her partner in crime. In [REDACTED], they were prohibited from being in the same classroom at Sam Hughes Elementary. In Telluride, they’d occupied the upstairs front bedroom, with its cracked-window view of town and of the bats that dipped all night long at the green streetlight outside. Late, they’d tiptoe through the back bedroom, where Priscilla’s little sisters slept, and exit through the window there, onto the hillside and into the night. For five summers, she’d invited him. And then they were fourteen, and the invitation did not come.
“What happened to your girlfriend?” his father had asked that fateful June, smirking behind his beer and sunglasses. “Have yourself a lovers’ spat?” David had no desire or even ability to explain. It was the exact opposite of what his father was suggesting—not a lovers’ spat but the taint of loverly possibility. Pris had never been his girlfriend. Until that summer, she hadn’t been a girl. And now suddenly she was, and she’d invited another girl to accompany her.
David spent the summer daydreaming and imagining himself there, wondering what project Dr. Hart was working on this year.
Dr. Hart had always enjoyed having David around, and he had listened with unskeptical, uncritical attention to whatever Dr. Hart taught him. He’d memorized the names of the plants, the difference between flower and weed; he’d read whatever novel Dr. Hart handed him, reporting back on his confused progress, scandalized, mystified, ashamed; he’d learned to drive on the dirt roads of Telluride, while his own parents were busy eviscerating each other back home, unable to fathom what it was that the Harts liked about him, resenting his ability to escape [REDACTED] for weeks at a time while they were forced to remain, their jobs not ones that permitted long holidays, their friends not likely to have summer homes in the mountains, their son a complicating factor in their shared wish to part ways. David had only reluctantly introduced them to the Harts, hustling the conversation along as he fetched his duffelbag on the morning of the first departure. He’d been highly aware of the way Dr. Hart took in his living room, the giant television, the absence of books or art, and his mother’s collection of china dolls, her pantheon, standing rigid on their perches, staring at him with their ice-cold eyes.
Meanwhile, his mother had studied Mrs. Hart, glaring at her tall thinness, her long hair falling in a braid down her back, the easy smile on her tanned face. Mrs. Hart was a potter; her hands were tools, unbeautiful, clay beneath her nails, calluses on her palms. She set her own schedule and followed art fairs around the [REDACTED]. Her three daughters blinked, unafraid, beside her, Priscilla, [REDACTED], Lydia. Their hair was tangled, their knees dirty; the older two already read above grade level and sassed the teachers, and so would the youngest, when it was her turn. They were occasionally kept home “to play in the dirt,” Mrs. Hart said. “Just in case they start getting infected by the catty crowd. You know how girls can be,” she said to David’s mother.
“No,” she replied. “I just have David.” Just. And as if she’d never been a girl herself. As if she’d been born the hag she was now, lumpen and unhappy, suspicious of the life style of her neighbors those hippie Harts. She and her husband let David go because they had no better options for his summers and expected the worst of him: delinquency, slovenliness, eventual arrest. They didn’t provide spending money: if the Harts wanted him, they could have him, but his parents would never regard it as a favor to them.
From then on, Mrs. Hart treated David with a small degree of pity, which he accepted the way any rescued creature would. He was not proud, he knew that. She kissed him good night as she kissed her girls, and tucked them all in upstairs, where the air was stuffy and warm, the pitched ceiling directly overhead, decorated with their childish art work, naughtiness and eloquence crisscrossed by webs and spiders, which the Harts never killed, an old record of folk songs spinning on the player set before the open doors of the two bedrooms, the girls singing along to the shocking lyrics. In the morning, Mrs. Hart would ask how they’d slept and serve them pancakes studded with berries; David hadn’t known that pancakes could come from anything but a box, or that syrup from its maple source ran thin and tart, nothing like the gluey stuff he got at home.
Then they were set free, out the front door to run wild in the empty town. Down to the river, out to the mine, up the hills, into the few businesses that lined Main, where all the shopkeepers knew their names. David pretended to be the girls’ brother. He wished he were with all his heart. At night they played kick the can with the local children, hiding behind sheds and burn barrels. When the curfew siren sounded, they’d head home and spend an hour or two riding the propane tank in the side yard while the air cooled around them.
For five years, the weeks he spent in Telluride stood for David as an annual pinnacle, time that he anticipated and then consumed. Those summers were when David felt most fully himself, trotting alongside Priscilla down the rocky streets, climbing at midnight up the slender path beside the stream to a large flat stone that they considered their own, reclining there shoulder to shoulder, talking without thinking as stars fell overhead. Priscilla encouraged frankness in him; perhaps she encouraged it in everyone. He hadn’t spoken without forethought since his early days as a liar. And he hadn’t done it since.
David pulled the cord for the kitchen light, a foreign familiar coin cool in his palm, beneath which sat the house’s modest hub, the table. Here was where he’d learned the rules of bridge, Mrs. Hart always recognizing his anxiety just before he made a fatal error in play. Here was where, after a morning of painting or plumbing or weeding or roofing, he’d joined Dr. Hart for lunch, sandwiches on bread made by Mrs. Hart, soggy combinations that David’s mother would never have dreamed up, and that his father wouldn’t have tolerated. Hummus. Shredded carrot. Basil leaves. What the Hart family called “stinky-feet cheese.” The beer that the Harts would allow him to sip from time to time. And afterward the afternoon, a warm haze, a certain kind of clicking bug hopping drunkenly through the air. . . . So strong was his sense of the past, so deep was his desire to have it restored that David for a moment forgot whom he’d come with today. [REDACTED]. She was asking in her hoarse voice about the bathroom, about making a fire, about what they might do for dinner, which she called “chow.” David immediately set to work with the necessary homecoming moves: plugging in the refrigerator, pulling sheets from the cupboards, running the water long enough to clear rust from the lines.
“This is a cozy room,” [REDACTED] said, after she emerged from the bathroom, the toilet gurgling behind her. She stood at the door to Dr. and Mrs. Hart’s bedroom.
“My room’s upstairs,” David said. He had never yet spent a night on the adult Harts’ bed. He was willing to break into their home, but he was superstitious about sleeping where they had slept, having sex where they had had sex. “The view is better up there,” he said, which was certainly true now that the mansion next door had blocked any kind of view or light from the downstairs rooms.
He and [REDACTED] went up together, single file on the steep, noisy stairs. In the front bedroom, where he’d spent five summers with Priscilla, and then one, in secret, with teen-age Lydia, he sat on the edge of the bed and creaked open the window. Cool air poured in like water. The moon was rising over the mountains, aglow there opposite the lingering light of the setting sun.
“Once I found a bat hanging in here,” David said, “before we put up screens.” This story wasn’t his but Priscilla’s. She’d screamed, the black thing attached to her wall like a leather glove.
“It’s incredible,” [REDACTED] said, blinking as her face encountered a spiderweb. “Smart investment, buying this back when.”
“It wasn’t an investment,” David said, bristling as he always did when this dull observation was made. “They didn’t buy it to make a profit.”
“Yeah, O.K., but most people wouldn’t have hung on to it. Most people would have cashed in.” And then, backing up, she asked, “ ‘They’?”
“Before I was around,” he said.
Dr. Hart had allowed David the use of the house one winter when David had tried to move to Telluride. He’d failed at college, been refused at both his mother’s and his father’s now separate homes, where they lived with their newly constituted second families, the fleet of step-siblings he scorned. He had found a job with the Telluride transit company, driving off three days a week in a truck that he could barely control, returning the next day with the goods he’d accumulated down in the larger towns: film reels, liquor, coal, hardware, groceries. He was proud of the job—without him, Telluride might not function. He had felt like a legitimate local for the three months that this idyllic situation stuttered along. Then, in November, he crashed, rolled off the hillside on black ice, a delivery of beer and lumber spilled four hundred feet, and that was the end of his reign as town hero. The men who worked at the gravel quarry at the bottom of the hill made off with the spoils; David could only crawl from the cab and shout ineffectually, clutching his broken arm, gasping around bruised lungs, “Stop, thief!” Although he was not paying rent, he had no money for utilities or food or fun. He’d had to return abjectly to [REDACTED], gas for his own vehicle siphoned with a section of garden hose from a car parked on the street. He hadn’t known how to leave a house in the winter; the pipes froze and burst, and a brood of skunks moved in under the floor. When the Harts returned, as they always did, on June 1st, they’d had to stay in a hotel for a few days while the plumbing was replaced and the vermin evicted. David also came to understand that he hadn’t been particularly tidy as a tenant, either. “I don’t blame you,” Dr. Hart assured him. “But I wouldn’t bring any of this up with Judy or the girls.” With horror, David remembered the pornography he must have left under the upstairs bed. Who had discovered that?
Beside him, [REDACTED] sneezed, five loud times in a row. “I may be allergic to your house,” she said. “And don’t you ever bless anybody when they sneeze?” As she stepped cautiously, duck-footed, down the steps ahead of him, David had an ugly temptation to plant his foot squarely between her shoulders and deliver a powerful kick.
“Why’s your room painted purple?” she was asking. “You some kinda gaylord?”
He’d known the Harts’ schedule so well that he was able to engineer a pity pickup one season. They always arrived on the first of June; he’d positioned himself as a hitchhiker on the highway just east of [REDACTED], thirty miles south of Telluride. This, he felt, would permit neither too much nor too little time with the family.
He envisioned their drive as he made his own journey. He had hitched from [REDACTED] days earlier, accepting a long, lucky ride on a band bus with a bluegrass group booked at a bar in Telluride. After begging off at [REDACTED], he’d spent two nights camping on Scotch Creek. It had snowed both nights; his small bivouac sack was frozen every morning as he hatched himself from it. By the time the Harts’ white van appeared, David had been offered a half-dozen rides; if the Harts had driven by without stopping, he might have later sought them out for revenge, torched their little piece of [REDACTED]. But they pulled over, as he’d trusted they would, and he managed to hide his exhausted near-hypothermia long enough to pretend utter astonishment at this coincidence. This was two years after his stint as a Telluride transit driver; he claimed he had a job waiting for him, a place to crash, friends looking forward to his arrival.
Lydia and her best friend were along with the parents that year. The other Hart girls were coming later; they had jobs, boyfriends, classes. Only Lydia was still fixed in the family routine. She would be a high-school senior in the fall; her best friend was a dark beauty who greeted David with an automatic seductive move of her knees, making room for him and his damp belongings. Swinging himself into the vehicle, he witnessed an exchanged glance between the Hart parents; he wished that he could somehow convince them that he was worth admitting back into the warm circle of their family. Prodigal? Wasn’t that a role he might claim?
“Pris is getting married,” Lydia informed him. “At the house. Me and [REDACTED] are maids of honor.”
“[REDACTED] and I,” Mrs. Hart said.
“Wow,” David said, trying to hide his hurt feelings. Nobody had notified him. And now nobody was inviting him. A pregnant pause filled more than a few miles. The teen-age beauty allowed her thigh to rest against David’s, although all he could think of was Priscilla, his old best friend. When they dropped him at the bakery, he immediately began devising some way to become integral to the wedding. Lawn boy? Caterer? He had until the summer solstice to figure it out.
The friend, because girls were cutthroat, would be the key, leading Lydia to sneak him into the house, through that same back window, and into her bed, in the purple room that had once been Pris’s, in order to claim victory in having seduced him. Twenty-four to her seventeen, he had closed his eyes during sex, an apology running through his mind like a prayer. For a couple of weeks, he had lived upstairs without the Hart parents’ knowledge, like a stray cat, padding softly across the floor, climbing in and out of the back window, eating the food that Lydia and her friend brought for him, crawling into bed beside Lydia, and lying when he said that he’d always liked her best.
In the morning, David’s eyes flew open. He’d heard the west window screech downstairs. He looked to the pillow next to him, where he expected to find [REDACTED], snoring mannishly away, but she was gone. Maybe she was climbing out of the house, done with him.
But before he could pull on pants he heard the women meet, the vague scream of surprise on either side, the confrontation. This was the backdrop to his swift calculations—through the upstairs window he would go, down to the car, out of town. But wait: no key! Then another flashing plan, the one story that would convince both women of his innocence. Palms flattening his hair, he wondered which sister it was, hoping for Lydia, the naughtiest Hart, the spoiled baby with whom he’d had shaming sex. He arrived at the bottom of the stairs just as she was opening the door to the kitchen: [REDACTED].
“David! What the hell? I wondered whose car that was, with [REDACTED] plates.”
He moved to embrace her, which would normally have been acceptable to placid [REDACTED], except that she seemed somehow armored, wearing a backpack and carrying a shoebox.
“You’re early,” David chose to say, hoping that bluster might cover his trespass long enough to hustle [REDACTED] out of earshot. “You’re not usually here till June 1st. This is [REDACTED], but I guess you met.” Meanwhile, he made a whirl of himself, filling the kettle, lighting the gas. “I told your dad I was coming, but maybe he forgot to mention it?”
[REDACTED] didn’t respond for a moment. She wasn’t as fast on her feet as her sisters. Finally, she said, “When did you tell Dad?”
“Maybe a month ago?”
[REDACTED] turned to [REDACTED]. “What’s your name again?”
“[REDACTED]. [REDACTED] Graham.”
“I’m [REDACTED], and this is my family’s house. Welcome,” she added, looking down at [REDACTED]’s long bare legs under her nightshirt.
“Coffee?” David asked, having the absurd thought that this might not end badly, that [REDACTED] might allow him to escape utter humiliation.
“Sure,” [REDACTED] said. “I don’t know why I decided to drive all night.”
“Lotta wildlife on the road?” David asked, fussing with filters, cups, potholders, avoiding [REDACTED]’s curious expression. Unlike other women, [REDACTED] had a patient, observing personality. She was a nurse, and she didn’t panic, not at the arrival of an emergency. She had seen them all. Would that get him off the hook today? Or more fully snag him?
“I almost hit a dozen deer,” [REDACTED] said. “I was starting to think it was the same one, following me, throwing itself out in the road as a joke.” She set the shoebox on the table, shrugged out of the pack, then pulled her knitted duster around her and fell, sighing, into a chair. As the middle child, she’d been accustomed to being left out. She was neither the oldest nor the youngest, nor was she a boy, which would have been a Hart novelty. Perhaps she felt redundant. David had been Pris’s friend, not hers. [REDACTED] had read books; sometimes she’d grown bored and tattled. David had always thought her the dud Hart, the least necessary of the bunch. She had asthma, and a wandering eye, her left, that nudged toward her skull. Because of these imperfections, she’d always seemed approachable; she’d seemed to be a nice person even if she wasn’t actually a nice person. People were misled by the wandering eye, as if her attention or intelligence or humanity also wandered, as if she had only to be half attended to.
[REDACTED] let David serve her coffee. Via chitchat, she and [REDACTED] had discovered that they were members of the same twenty-four-hour gym in [REDACTED], although [REDACTED], lazy, rarely used the place, and [REDACTED]’s routine there was odd, given her shifts at the hospital.
“I’m here to prepare for Lydia’s wedding,” [REDACTED] said to David. “Mom and Pris and Lyd are coming tomorrow, and then Pris’s husband and kids the day after, with the fiancé.”
David had seated himself at the head of the table, aware suddenly that his feet were bare and frozen, that he ought to have started a fire, that [REDACTED] hadn’t mentioned her father’s arrival time, that he was looking at the box she had set on the table, and that the label on it was from a mortuary. The wedding would take place in a week, [REDACTED] was saying, but before then, before the men and children arrived, the women were going to scatter Dr. Hart’s ashes.
“What?”
“Dad died,” [REDACTED] said, adding, almost apologetically, “last December. Pancreatic cancer. It was very unexpected.” She was studying her coffee cup, which was one that her mother had thrown, years earlier; almost all the cups and plates and bowls and trivets were of Mrs. Hart’s making, mismatched seconds that she hadn’t been able to sell. “Christmas was awful,” [REDACTED] said, “but I think we’re all getting used to it now. We thought we’d take him up to Blue Lake. He always said that was his favorite spot. Although I’m not sure that Mom can make it up there anymore, with her arthritis. She’s a potter,” she explained to [REDACTED]. “So it’s really especially cruel for her to have arthritis.”
David stared at the white box. It could have held shoes, or pastries, paper. He felt as if he were physically repulsing the news of its true contents, the way one magnet repulses another. The box on the table, the table in the house, the house in the town, the town in the canyon. And the man, in the box. David was dizzy. “I didn’t know. Why didn’t you tell me?” he said finally, interrupting an exchange the women were having. [REDACTED], he’d overheard, learning it for the first time, was an orphan.
[REDACTED] performed her unique blink, one eye closing just before the other. “His obituary ran in the paper,” she said at last.
They should have notified him, he thought. He should have been personally told. How was it that they could not understand his affection for them all, his need especially for Dr. Hart?
[REDACTED] said, gently, “I think you probably ought to get out of here today. I don’t really care that you’re here, but it’s not going to be cool with Mom or Pris.”
He never got away with anything, he thought. If it wasn’t an officer of the law pulling him over, it was a ticket in the mail, the indisputable evidence of his vehicle flying past a camera at many miles over the speed limit. What such a person might eventually ask himself was why he felt a need to break the rules, tell lies, have things to get away with. Why couldn’t he, in some definitive way, exhaust or outgrow his childish defiance?
Upstairs, as they bundled their belongings back into their bags, David preëmpted what he believed would be [REDACTED]’s outrage by saying, “Don’t say anything, O.K.? Just don’t say a fucking word.” She was his responsibility, witness to his humiliation, a woman with a horsy face—big square teeth, oversized jaw, hair that she tossed like a mane—five hundred miles from [REDACTED], where she belonged. Now she was stripping the bed, methodically removing what they’d just last night spread out together.
“We have to wash these,” she said. “It’s the least.”
Downstairs, she assured [REDACTED] that she would return the sheets by noon, leave them on the front porch. David glanced at the broken-handled mug atop the refrigerator, where the quarters for the Washeteria were kept, and then his gaze crashed into [REDACTED]’s, whose eyes had also gone automatically to the money.
While the sheets churned, David took [REDACTED] to his favorite bar. The bartender was the same as in previous years; she said hello without recognizing him, the generic hospitality of a tourist town. He had begun to tell [REDACTED] about the local character who rode his horse through these very doors, reliably, every year, when she stopped him.
“You already told me that.”
“I did?” He wondered if he’d also told her about being beat up at this bar, if he’d trotted out that particular tall tale—his explanation for the divot in his forehead that he’d got by taking a header in the alley. He touched his scar and raised his eyebrows. 

“Yeah, I heard all about that, too. You know, I’m beginning to feel like I could diagnose your problem.”
“I don’t want a diagnosis.” But then he discovered that he’d rather know it than not. “All right, what?”
“You perseverate.”
“I don’t even know what that means.”
“Not knowing doesn’t exempt you. You live in the past—you revisit the same things over and over. This place is nothing but a big nostalgia trip for you. I don’t know what the story is with you and that family, but—”
He inserted himself here. “Messy breakup with [REDACTED],” he lied. “The others—”
“I. Don’t. Care,” [REDACTED] said. He could tell from her expression that she didn’t. The details bored her. Neon beer signs turned her face green, then yellow. She was as mechanically unmoved as one of the machines she manned at the hospital, merely charting a human condition. “Just for a change, how about you ask me something?” she proposed. “How about that?”
“O.K.” David thought for a moment. “How old was that other boyfriend?”
“Seventy,” she said.
“Wow.”
“My parents were spinning in their graves, a man as old as them. But I loved him with all my heart.”
“Why?”
“ ‘Why?’ ” [REDACTED] leaned back, focussing on David’s face. “Two questions in a row. It’s a record. But whatever. I’d rather visit my weird situation than hear about yours. I loved Franklin because, when we talked, I always felt as if we were wandering around in a big house, a big house with endless rooms, and every time we came to a closed door in one of those rooms we were able to open it. Open doors, open doors, one after another. That’s why I loved him.”
David imagined the house, the wind circulating through those rooms, doors swinging on hinges.
“You can’t smoke in here,” the bartender came over to tell [REDACTED] as soon as she lit up. “New law.”
[REDACTED] suddenly laughed. “I love drinking before noon,” she declared.
“It’s a great high,” David agreed. “The altitude really helps.” He was tempted to tell her about the biotaclub—blame it on the altitude—but was afraid that he already had.
Back at the Washeteria, they couldn’t locate their load of sheets and underwear. Every machine was empty. “What the fuck?” David said. The floor was damp and smelled of chlorine. There was nobody to appeal to, the business a self-service one; upstairs were apartments, blameless tenants. “You tell her,” he said to [REDACTED]. She shrugged, willing. Her record was still relatively clean. He watched from the street as [REDACTED] knocked on the front door. When [REDACTED] answered it, she sneezed into the sunlight.
“Bless you,” David heard. Then the two women went inside, the door banging behind them. David waited. He studied the garbage can, latched the clip so that bears wouldn’t overturn it, swiped his hand on the creosote-treated light pole just to have the odor on his fingers. Finally, [REDACTED] emerged.
“What took so long?”
“None of your beeswax. I wrote her a check—she can buy six-hundred thread count. And we exchanged numbers. We might share a trainer this fall.”
“I don’t actually know what you’re talking about.”
“You’re in shock,” [REDACTED] said. “I’ve seen it before.”
“Shock?”
“The dead dad?” Duh, her tone said.
Dr. Hart. David saw him suddenly at the kitchen table, a few of his university cronies alongside, bearded and complaining around the glowing wine bottle—bastard politicians, pretentious films, popular potboilers, historical rogues, critical tirades turned into a competitive sport—while Mrs. Hart floated around humming, serving food, salving childhood wounds, providing pajamas and lighters and answers to all manner of esoteric inquiry: Who the hell was that poet? Where, oh, where is the blankie? Even then, when David was a boy, allowed to sit beside Dr. Hart, to sip at the wine if he wanted to, to receive an occasional fond pat on the back, he had recognized the difference between Dr. Hart and those others. Concerning a certain slim novel that Dr. Hart had just the day before handed to David, one particular colleague had sneered, “Is that any good?” A gauntlet, made of contempt.
“Oh, my God,” Mrs. Hart murmured, rolling her eyes indulgently.
“Dad’s trashy habit,” [REDACTED] singsonged.
“Well,” Dr. Hart had confessed, “I did like it.”
“I liked it, too!” David had declared, heart swollen with pride, pledging loyalty to his king. Everyone in the room laughed, even little ignorant Lydia, and he felt himself shrink back to size: skinny boy on quaking stool, squawking sidekick to the great man.
Still, he had been a great man, hadn’t he?
“Keys?” [REDACTED] said, out of nowhere. Apparently, she had been waiting, palm out, fingers wiggling. “I should drive.”
It snowed that night. They stayed at a lodge on the edge of town, down by the river, by the former train station where the outbuilding had burned. David opened his mouth to tell the story, then couldn’t remember whether he’d already told it and didn’t want to be scolded for perseverating. Diagnosis, indeed. He did appreciate [REDACTED]’s accepting the change in plans. She did not seem shocked by his deceit, and she offered a functioning credit card at the front desk. David himself was consigned to cash, which he readily provided—what he had of it—promising to make up later what he owed.
ADVERTISEMENT
“No reason to ruin the weekend,” [REDACTED] said. E.R. nurse: David had to admire her unflinching willingness to roll with the punches. In this way, too, she reminded him of a man. When she undressed, he watched from behind, mentally shearing off her long hair so as to see only the wide swimmer’s shoulders and narrow hips, her overmuscled calves, her feet perhaps flat, certainly large. Then she swung around, her breasts dispelling any lingering sense of masculinity.
“I think it’s only fair to tell you that I’m not using protection,” she said, in the middle of sex.
David laughed, relieved to be in the throes of someone else’s story, in whatever weave of fabrication allowed her to think her admission, at this late date, honorable. “Duly noted,” he said.
“I was pregnant before, with the married man, and I aborted. I really wish I hadn’t. It’s my big regret. Franklin,” she added.
The image of that man had been taking shape in David’s mind, a dead man like Dr. Hart, and that’s who he was thinking about as they finished having unprotected sex.
[REDACTED] wore one of David’s jackets when they went out walking on their third and last evening in Telluride. He was glad to be able to do something for her, clutching at any small favor. They stopped by the trash cans outside the Hart house, as snow fell around the warm glow of the window. The tentative green of spring would not be killed by this storm. It was a harmless piece of winter, an errant cold cloud making a pit stop here, inflicting no permanent damage. Inside were the women, the mother and three daughters; Judy Hart still wore the braid down her back, her hair silver now against her bronze face. She smiled, sitting at the head of the table, facing the window, where she could see only her own reflection. Others crossed the small space, moving from stove to sink to refrigerator, a tight choreography with which David was intimately familiar. Then strangers filled the room, two men and two little boys, Pris’s children, who would no doubt be sent to sleep in the back bedroom upstairs, under the drawings made by their mother and their aunts. And by David. His scrawls were up there, too.
“Looking in like this reminds me of a snow globe,” [REDACTED] said, quiet and low. “Except we’re in the snow and they’re in the globe.” There had been drinks with dinner. David held her hand happily, quietly. He wished that Priscilla would step onto the porch and discover his happiness; he needed to display it, to prove it.
He saw Lydia embrace one of the men, from the back, lean over him as he sat at the table and put her face beside his. Her hair was the same blond straggle from childhood.
It had been Mrs. Hart who’d discovered David and Lydia in bed together, one morning long ago, only days before Pris’s wedding, when David was officially an adult and Lydia officially not. Mrs. Hart had opened the door after rapping briefly. “Lyd?” Then closed her eyes at the sight of David’s bare chest. She hadn’t been angry; she was a kind, kind woman, whose disappointment was far harder to bear than her anger. “Let’s not tell your father,” she’d suggested to Lydia, still standing there at the door, eyes averted. “I’m afraid he won’t understand.”
[REDACTED] asked David now, “Do you wish you were in there instead of out here?”
“No,” he said. And then he reviewed his response. It was a lie—or else it wasn’t. 
