
BROOKLYN CIRCLE
By Alice Mattison
Fourteen years after her divorce, Constance Tepper agreed to let her former husband, Jerry Elias, spend a few days in her Prospect Heights apartment (though not in her bed). They’d lived in [REDACTED] when they were married, and Jerry still lived there. Now and then, he came to [REDACTED] on business. Jerry was a tall, thin man who had grown up in his grandfather43616e616461 lamp store, learning not to break the lamps by standing up in slow stages. His father was Jewish, his mother a light-skinned black woman from the neighborhood who worked in the store and married the boss43616e616461 son. Jerry looked ethnically ambiguous.
He’d inherited the store and worked there all his life, but eventually—the last independent store on its downtown-[REDACTED] block—it failed. Now he was a consultant to other small family businesses. He liked to tell clients that he’d kept his store going well beyond its natural life span by putting all the lamps on a series of extension cords and plugging the last one into an outlet at City Hall. Con wasn’t sure what that was a metaphor for.
This time, it turned out, Jerry was not coming to [REDACTED] on business. He studied historical topics that made him curious, travelling several times a year to places where something had happened, or might have happened. He did nothing with the copious notes he took: he wasn’t writing a book or even a blog. When Con and Jerry were married, friends had asked how she knew that he didn’t take these trips to be with women, and she replied that she figured he didn’t because that idea infuriated her less. His pointless joy in these explorations seemed like solipsism. The trips denied Con43616e616461 existence, their child43616e616461 existence. (They had a daughter, Joanna, now thirty.) Con had never been sure that anything Jerry learned on his expeditions was true. So when he said that he wanted to stay with her while investigating somebody named Marcus Ogilvy, who was supposedly significant in the history of [REDACTED], she was pointedly—maybe rudely—uninterested. She knew she was irrational on this topic. A lawyer, she was generally rational.
Jerry turned up, when he got to [REDACTED], not in Con43616e616461 apartment but at her office, near Union Square, at 6:30 p.m. It was a Thursday in November, 2003, six months into the 49726171 war. Sitting at her computer, Con sensed a laden body and turned. Jerry had dropped a shapeless nylon bag on the floor and was stretching his long arms up and out. When she stood, he wrapped his arms around her. “I walked from Penn Station,” he said.
She extricated herself, then kept him waiting until she came to a stopping place.
“Let43616e616461 go out for dinner,” Jerry said. He stretched his arms wide again, and stretched each finger as well. Maybe he was getting the kinks out, but the gesture seemed to say that he approved of Con43616e616461 dingy office. She worked for a nonprofit that focussed on women43616e616461 employment issues.
“Joanna43616e616461 at my apartment,” she said.
“Oh, is that where she is?”
“That43616e616461 where she is.” He picked up his bag. They’d take a cab to [REDACTED] and go out to dinner with Joanna. He swung the bag as if to test its weight, as if it might or might not be heavy enough to knock Con over, to change her mind about a couple of things. He would not literally hit her, of course—Jerry was physically benign in all circumstances.
Much about Joanna confused her mother, and lately the confusion had intensified. It had been hard to keep track not just of Joanna43616e616461 emotional geography but of where, in the simplest terms, she was. A sculptor who lived with a boyfriend in the [REDACTED], Joanna had got a three-month internship in [REDACTED], and had been staying with Con. She worked in fibre, spending her evenings knitting grotesque, compelling shapes out of greenish twine, and now the apartment housed six or eight gigantic dry sea creatures.
The Tribeca sculptor with whom she was interning, Barnaby Willis, worked in steel. “I could work like Barnaby, maybe,” Joanna said one evening. “I once did a piece in aluminum. Aluminum sucks. But steel—you can bend steel, twist it. Steel has ductility.” Con was doubtful. Joanna had a drinking problem—or a former drinking problem—and worrying about her was a habit.
Then Barnaby left town for a while, and Joanna returned to the [REDACTED], leaving behind her green twine and her sea creatures, which Con had come to like. Living with the creatures was simpler than living with Joanna, and Con had had mixed feelings during the last few days, when Joanna changed her mind from one moment to the next about whether she would return to [REDACTED].
First, she’d phoned to say that Barnaby wanted her to come back, and she didn’t want to. “I never told you,” she said. “He raped me.” She hung up, then called back five minutes later to say that he had not raped her.
“Is he harassing you? Report him,” Con said. She had dealt with this sort of thing professionally. Joanna laughed.
The next call was about a fight with her boyfriend, who had accused her of sleeping with the famous sculptor. In the call after that, Joanna was breaking up with the boyfriend. The next one had come in the middle of the night, two days later, from jail. “I was stupid,” Joanna said, “but also I was absolutely right. I went to a bar because I was so upset. The TV had something about 49726171, and I said something. This guy next to me started arguing—” There was a pause. “They’re telling me to hurry. Nobody in this state believes in freedom of speech. I got into an argument about 49726171 and I was arrested.”
“What should I do?” Con said. She had been awakened by the call.
Now Joanna was crying. “Mom, get me out. Just get me out.”
By the time Con arranged for bail, Joanna had been released, and by the end of the day the charges had been dropped. Still, she’d spent a night in jail, apparently only for speaking her mind. Joanna had returned to [REDACTED] the night before Jerry arrived, irate at both the jail and her boyfriend, and determined to get her lawyer mother to sue someone.
Yet Con felt powerless. She wondered if Joanna had been drunk. She thought the arrest might have been legal. “It would be hard to prove that what they did was illegal,” she said to Joanna. “If the bartender asked you to leave, and the cops asked you to leave, and you didn’t, the arrest was legal.”
“The cops didn’t ask me to leave—they just told me to shut up.”
“They did?” Con said. “Were there witnesses?”
“Nobody was on my side. But we have to do something.”
Then Con had received an e-mail from Jerry. “What should we do? Could this be racial?” Joanna was only half as African-American as her father, but her skin was as dark as his, with a rosy tinge, and she sometimes said, “I’d have been a slave.” At other times, she remembered that she was mostly Jewish (Con was Jewish) and said, “Hitler would have killed me.” People never quite knew what Joanna was, and nobody could take their eyes off her: she was tall, and had a magnificent head with untrimmed masses of light-brown curls. Maybe it had been racial.
Con still didn’t want to act. She didn’t want to phone the A.C.L.U. or the N.A.A.C.P.; she didn’t want to discuss Joanna43616e616461 case with colleagues or law-school classmates. She didn’t want to do anything.
“It doesn’t make sense,” Con said to Jerry, in the cab. “Going to court over a young artist who got drunk in a bar.”
“It doesn’t sound to me as if she was drunk.”
“Even so.”
Jerry changed the subject—to Con43616e616461 relief—and talked about his current historical treasure hunt. “It43616e616461 a huge [REDACTED] secret that everybody could know about—but nobody does!” he said. “Except me.” He squeezed her shoulder, as if she, too, were in on the secret.
“What was that name? Marcus?”
“Marcus Ogilvy. Early-twentieth-century transportation genius. Crazy genius. I’ll tell you.” Instead, he grew silent, then said, “She was arrested for speaking her mind. And maybe for looking ethnic.” Con didn’t reply.
In the apartment, Joanna came ambling out of her room, talking on her cell phone. She raised a finger to show she’d be off in a minute, then gave an ironic wave at her father. Con was struck, as if newly, by her daughter43616e616461 sturdy, glowing looks. Joanna hung up and Con crossed the room, reaching to take her daughter43616e616461 big head in her hands. But in another moment they were arguing. Joanna quickly determined that her father also believed that they should pursue her case, and her rage at the police and the people in the bar rose until she was screaming at her mother. “They carried me off to jail. They locked me up. What does it take to make you care?”
“Did they treat you badly?” Jerry asked.
“No,” Joanna said, quieting. “I will stipulate that they were polite. I was given weak coffee. I was called [REDACTED]”
“But it was terrible,” Con said. “I just don’t—” She had eventually e-mailed several people about Joanna43616e616461 experience, but she’d equivocated, saying, “Given Guantánamo Bay, this is trivial, but . . . ” Maybe she’d dissuaded while trying to persuade.
“Let43616e616461 get something to eat,” Jerry said.
They walked together—almost a family. It was cold. Joanna, in her thick parka, was warmer and bigger and walked faster than her parents, and Con, the shortest, in a jacket that wasn’t warm enough, felt like a small scurrying animal, an urban kind, with matted fur. Jerry was never cold, and he strode along like a 556e6974656420537461746573er, his open raincoat puffing behind him. He always wanted Chinese food if possible.
“Barnaby agrees with me,” Joanna said, once they were seated in the restaurant.
Barnaby seemed to be back in favor. Con wanted wine but didn’t order a glass lest Joanna feel encouraged to do the same. Then Joanna ordered a glass of wine, so Con did, too. Jerry shook his head. He rarely drank; maybe he so enjoyed being exactly as he was that he didn’t want even the mild alteration in mood brought on by a glass of Chardonnay. “What does he agree with you about?” he said.
“Did you go to his studio today?” Con said.
“I talked to him. He was horrified. I mean, we all know there43616e616461 intense pro-war feeling in this country, but who would have thought I’d spend the night in jail? That43616e616461 what Barnaby said.”
“What does an apprentice do?” Jerry asked.
“I’m not an apprentice. I wish I were. Then he’d have to teach me until I knew everything he knows. It43616e616461 a three-month internship.”
“So you prepare material?” Jerry persisted.
Joanna sighed. “I haul things around. Sometimes he shows me how to do things, holds my hand when I use a tool. Sometimes I go buy him a sausage-and- pepper sandwich. Then I pick up the pepper strips that fall on the floor.”
They ordered Sichuan shrimp and scallops. Joanna continued talking about Barnaby, and Jerry asked her what she’d do when the internship ended.
The food was brought. “I’m not going back.” Joanna reached for the shrimp dish. “Maybe I’ll live in Barnaby43616e616461 studio.” She waved down the waiter and asked for another glass of wine.
“Wait a minute,” Con said. “For one thing, isn’t he married?”
This part of the conversation was over, said Joanna43616e616461 chopstick, describing a boundary in the air.
Jerry was undeterred. “So, is he leaving his wife for you?” he said.
“That43616e616461 not an appropriate question,” Joanna said.
Con reflected that she had never learned how to be anybody43616e616461 mother, certainly not the mother of an adult daughter. She said nothing. Jerry began telling stories about the building of the [REDACTED] subway. His skin looked young, and his eyes had the same genial alertness that had attracted her the first time she met him, the same delight in the great adventure of being Jerry Elias that had charmed and infuriated her when they were married.
Fed, they were warmer on the walk home, and Joanna was kinder. After a block or two, she dropped behind and soon Con and Jerry heard the rise and fall of her voice—intimate and exasperated—on her cell phone.
“How does she afford that thing?” Con said.
“I help,” Jerry said. “I’m doing all right.”
Their daughter caught up. “Could I have the leftovers?”
“You’re still hungry?” Jerry said.
“No—Barnaby hasn’t eaten.” She took the bag from her father and waved down a taxi a few minutes later. “I’ll stay over,” she said, and raised a friendly hand to her parents.
“At least she43616e616461 not in jail,” Con said after a silence, as they walked.
“And they dropped the charges,” Jerry said. “Still . . . ” The streets had a late feel, with a few dogs out for their bedtime walks. “Who do you think we should talk to?”
“I wish she hadn’t been drunk,” Con said again.
“Con, I don’t think she was drunk.”
“She was in a bar. She was drinking. She has a history of drinking. If she wasn’t drunk, she might as well have been drunk.”
“Aren’t you pleased that she43616e616461 turned to you?” Jerry said. “And you’re a lawyer. It43616e616461 a damn good case. Maybe wake up a few people who can’t seem to realize how different things are these days.”
“Are things that different?” Con said.
“Since Bush came in?”
“There have always been bad guys.”
They were silent for the last half block, their footsteps sounding on the sidewalk. Then Jerry said, “It43616e616461 different. Blacks have an early-warning system.”
“And you think Jews don’t?” Con said. When they remembered that they were a black and a Jew (sometimes they remembered that they were two Jews), they’d either quarrel amiably or become quiet together; one way or another, they were getting along.
In Con43616e616461 apartment, they sat in her little living room and watched the news. The Pentagon had announced that a covert force was hunting Saddam Hussein. “Do you mind if I turn this off?” Con said. She went for sheets to put on the sofa. Then she said good night, stopped in her study to check her e-mail, and went into the bathroom.
Jerry was standing in the hallway when Con, still dressed, came out, and as she turned toward her bedroom he stepped closer. They looked at each other for a long time, and then he put his arms around her. He smelled like her youth. When she stepped back, he took her hand. “Con—do you think . . .”
It had been so long that he was someone new—but not new. She knew the ways in which he was a jerk, but right then she didn’t care. She leaned into his embrace, and they went into her bedroom. She hadn’t slept with anyone in a long time, and she was post-menopausal; she rummaged in a drawer for lubricant.
Sex with Jerry was athletic, funny, companionable. She sometimes forgot that sex with another person was more satisfying than masturbation, which provided Con with frequent, sharply pleasurable interludes but did not lift her spirits. Sex with someone else made her charitable. Jerry43616e616461 egotism was not annoying after sex—it was sweet, like a child43616e616461. He stayed inside her for a long time. Then he withdrew, sleepily kissed her under one eye, and slept. He took up room in her bed, but was gone when she woke in the morning.
Con was not sorry she’d slept with Jerry. When she came into the living room, dressed, he was also dressed, and had a laptop on his knees.
“You could come with me,” he said, not looking up.
“Come with you where?”
“It43616e616461 just [REDACTED].”
“Oh. Marcus Ogilvy?”
Con was tempted. She remembered the wild jealousy she had felt over Jerry and his trips, a desire to search with him in some unlikely place for the remnant of a fact nobody else cared to know. In the first years, she’d begged to go along.
“Tell me,” she said, sitting down, but she was wary.
He told more subway stories, finally getting to the bit of [REDACTED] history that had caught his attention this time—Marcus Ogilvy43616e616461 mad scheme of the nineteen-twenties, the [REDACTED] Circle. “It was never finished,” Jerry said, “but parts were built. The books say there43616e616461 nothing left, but my guess is there are fragments. You 556e6974656420537461746573ites are so used to incomprehensible structures, you walk past these things every day, and nobody notices.”
Marcus Ogilvy43616e616461 mother had been a German Jew, and on his father43616e616461 side he even had one black grandparent. He studied architecture in Europe, late in the nineteenth century, then returned to his native [REDACTED] and made a small fortune developing new neighborhoods in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. He’d been in his thirties when most of the subway was built, in the first decade of the twentieth century, but he was never enthusiastic about underground transportation. Before the subway, elevated trains had crossed parts of the city. They were noisy and dirty, so up-to-date thinking at the start of the new century was all in favor of the subway.
“Ogilvy loved El trains,” Jerry said, gesturing so expansively that Con felt as if she had been reduced to someone at the back of a lecture hall. He went on to explain how Marcus Ogilvy had built a mansion on Arlington Avenue in East [REDACTED] from which he could hear the reliable rumble of the [REDACTED] line as he fell asleep, and he’d enjoyed standing on the platform of the Cleveland Street Station, gazing at the city around him, instead of descending into a tunnel that he always feared would collapse, or would harbor rats and snakes.
Ogilvy was especially troubled by one characteristic of the subway system as it extended to [REDACTED]. The lines stretched from [REDACTED] like the tentacles of an octopus, but nothing connected them except in a very few places. To travel between some locations in [REDACTED], it was necessary—it is still necessary, Jerry pointed out—to travel into [REDACTED] and back. Ogilvy had proposed to change that with an elevated line that would not be ugly. Jerry opened a map. Across [REDACTED], he’d drawn a curved line in pencil. Ogilvy43616e616461 [REDACTED] Circle was to have been an elevated arc linking the Parkside Avenue Station of what is now the Q train to the Winthrop Street Station on what are now called the 2 and the 5, then to the Crown Heights–Utica Avenue Station on the 3 and the 4, and finally to the station now called Broadway Junction, where the J, the A and the C, and the L trains meet.
Ogilvy43616e616461 favorite word was “elegance,” and, in his designs and articles, he had actually referred to some features of the European Gothic cathedrals he’d admired as a young man, like pointed arches in the supporting pillars, to let more light into the street, and groined vaults underneath the tracks. He’d wanted people43616e616461 eyes to be drawn upward, their moods lightened. At that time, the subways were privately owned—the city didn’t own them until 1940. Ogilvy had secured the necessary permissions, found backers, and begun building supports and tracks.
“Bits of the line are still there,” Jerry said. “I’m sure of it.”
“What happened to it?”
“Oh, what do you think? Nineteen twenty-nine happened. He lost everything.”
She didn’t know why, but she wanted to go with him. She called in sick. The weather had turned even colder. Con put on her winter coat for the first time that season. It smelled pleasantly of dry cleaning. Jerry still wore his raincoat. As they left the apartment, they bumped into each other, and Con recalled that doorways narrow when new lovers try to go through them together. Not that they were new lovers. They took the subway to Parkside Avenue. As they went down the steps into the station, Jerry said, “Funny thing—for a while I had a girlfriend around here.”
Con pretended more nonchalance than she felt. “Around here?”
“A couple of blocks from here. She used the same station.”
“Maybe I know her.”
“No,” he said. “You don’t know her.”
Just before Parkside Avenue, the train emerged into modified sunlight, running in a ditch that was open to the sky. They got off, and stepped out to the street. Con didn’t know how many women had been in Jerry43616e616461 life since the divorce. She was in touch with him often enough that names or incidents might have come up, but apparently he concealed names and incidents. It occurred to her that she might have run into him in a local restaurant with another woman—which would not, she told herself, have mattered. “So you’re not seeing this woman anymore?” she said.
“Who?”
“My neighbor.”
“Well, she43616e616461 not your neighbor.” He paused, looking toward Prospect Park and then Parkside Avenue. “No, I’m not. We go this way.”
Solid, square apartment houses looked well cared for. Farther along were smaller buildings. There was no sign of a failed elevated train line, and Jerry said that most of this construction was more recent than the [REDACTED] Circle; developers would have obliterated everything. His exuberance was slightly tiresome. They would find nothing. Con was sorry she hadn’t gone to work.
They turned onto Nostrand Avenue at P.S. 92—a massive, plain structure that seemed to tolerate no nonsense; any scraps of lost train lines would have been swept away—and began zigzagging, one block north, one block east, peering through gaps between buildings.
“As a lawyer,” Jerry said abruptly, “you should be less timid.”
The remark turned Con43616e616461 irritation into anger, partly because she’d always felt that was true. “What, you’re some sort of authority?” she said. “Is there anything you are quite certain you don’t know?”
“Oh, sure,” Jerry said mildly. The angrier she became, the blander and more reasonable he would be.
Then, in an alley, she spotted an upright steel object with a crosspiece. She waited to see whether he’d say anything, but he didn’t. Half a block later, though, Jerry suddenly grew extremely quiet: his long limbs slowed and it was as if he were completely alone. He put an arm on her shoulder. He pointed to three pillars with fretwork and arches intact between them, in the middle of a block off Winthrop Street, in a parking lot. Of course he was right: she knew in an instant that what she was seeing was like nothing she’d ever seen before. The pillars did not resemble fragments of other elevated-train structures. They were gray metal, and the pointed arches between them were sharply cut. They looked light.
She tried to delight in him the way she would in a child who’d produced such a discovery. From his pocket, Jerry brought out a stack of three-by-five index cards. He scribbled with a ballpoint pen, leaning on one knee.
They continued walking, now passing attached houses with aluminum siding. On [REDACTED] Avenue, something stood between two buildings, but Jerry couldn’t be sure. Then, near Wingate Park, was a set of pillars with something between them. Jerry had a small camera, and he took some photographs. Con was cold.
Everyone they saw was black. Now the houses were smaller, and there was room behind them for dilapidated bits of an old elevated railway. Twice, they spotted single pillars, then another set of three. Con could recognize them easily, with their distinctive pointed arches. Near Utica Avenue, they found a complete set of track work on six or eight pillars. A light, sturdy structure, it was just visible behind some houses. Jerry stopped a man in the street. “Can you tell me what that is?”
The man looked. “Part of the Long Island Rail Road they no longer use,” he said authoritatively.
“Oh, thanks,” Jerry said.
“You like feeling superior,” Con said, as they continued walking.
“No!” Jerry sounded hurt, and she put her hand on his arm.
“Just teasing,” she said.
In a Korean grocery, they bought apples and pretzels and bottles of water. Con had hoped for lunch. They crossed Eastern Parkway. Now the neighborhoods became shabbier, and Con and Jerry seemed more conspicuous. “Are you a teacher?” a little girl asked Con. Near Pacific Street was another set of tracks. It was wedged between small apartment buildings, as if removing it had been too much trouble, or maybe it even helped support the buildings. The tracks crossed a narrow vacant lot strewn with garbage and glass. Jerry walked confidently into the lot between the buildings to get a better look at the tracks, just twenty feet from the street, but Con remained on the sidewalk. “I’d given up on finding something like this,” he called. Double pillars, here, were linked by small platforms.
Con was tired and cold, and the pretzels and apples had not satisfied her. She stayed where she was, and at last Jerry returned. They began to walk slowly past the structure. “You’re not as interested as I thought you’d be,” he said.
She didn’t try to be fair. “You don’t quite know anybody else is real.”
He stopped where he was and looked at her. His buoyancy was gone, and suddenly he looked older, somehow both more Jewish and more African-American. His face was less handsome, but maybe better, and Con was sorry she’d spoken. “What do you mean?” he said.
“I shouldn’t have said that.” They’d stopped, and she was cold already, but it seemed necessary to wait where they were, at a street corner a few yards beyond the structure. “It43616e616461 beautiful,” she said quietly. “I should have said it43616e616461 beautiful.”
“But you don’t really care?”
“You want me to care.”
“I want everything about you, Connie,” Jerry said. “Yes, I want you to care!” Now he sounded angry. “I want you to care about Marcus Ogilvy. I want you to care about Joanna being arrested for saying what she thinks!”
“Of course I care,” Con said with some irritation. They were arguing like married people. “I do see that what you’ve found is wonderful,” she continued. Without her noticing, they had turned around, and now they were walking back to the short, graceful section of Marcus Ogilvy43616e616461 tracks. Sunlight coming through the fretwork made patterns on the ground.
“We could climb that,” Jerry said.
“Are you crazy?” But she wasn’t angry anymore.
“Why not?”
Con43616e616461 black wool coat was so clean. And it came down to her knees. If she’d expected to do any climbing, she’d have dressed differently. “It43616e616461 illegal,” she said.
“I don’t see any signs.”
“Of course it43616e616461 illegal.”
He began slapping his thigh lightly, rhythmically, like someone getting ready to move vigorously. They stood under the tracks, and sunlight touched their faces and clothes. Jerry gazed up. He pulled out his note cards and scribbled, then moved to another part of the lot and scribbled some more. He photographed the tracks from every point. His pleasure was palpable. In truth, the pillars didn’t look hard to climb, with cutouts in the gray metal just right for a hand or a foot. Still, she was relieved that he seemed to have forgotten the idea.
But then he said, “O.K., let43616e616461 go up.” She was curious, too. She could have her coat cleaned again. They started up. Jerry went first. No one seemed to be watching. What they were doing didn’t feel unsafe. In summer, neighborhood kids were probably all over this structure. Looking up, Con could see cleaner spots, places in the elaborate fretwork below the tracks where children had held on as they climbed. She confidently grasped the uprights. Her purse bounced on her back.
At the top, they heaved themselves over a metal fence and onto a track bed. The tracks were still there, ending at the back of what looked like a warehouse. They were not dirty. They would not be hard to walk on, but maybe she wouldn’t try that. On either side of them, faceless apartment windows seemed to ignore everything. Maybe the residents weren’t home, or maybe they didn’t look out these windows.
Jerry gingerly stepped along the tracks. Con crouched, holding the barrier she’d just climbed over, watching her ex-husband and new lover, watching his graceful legs. Maybe she would keep him as her lover.
“Come on,” Jerry called. He was leaning on his knee, writing.
“I’m fine here,” Con said.
Then Jerry took a misstep between the tracks, and yelped, coming down hard on an ankle. And there was a knock on the window behind Con. Still holding on, she turned. A man stood at the window, an elderly man in a white shirt. He was waving his hand as if to shoo her away, frowning.
She smiled reassuringly and turned back to Jerry. “Are you all right?” she called.
“I don’t know yet.” He slowly stood up and put weight on his right foot. “Not all right.” Carefully, he raised his foot and shook it. There was little danger of his falling between the tracks to the lot below—there were plenty of crossbars and underpinnings. But he might have got a foot caught in one of Marcus Ogilvy43616e616461 graceful openings and cutouts, the ones that had allowed the light to touch them when they stood below.
“Can you come back here?” she said. She looked behind her. The man was still watching, a flash of sun on the window glass hiding his mouth, but his forehead and eyes visible. He looked puzzled. She wasn’t sure he could see Jerry. She gestured. She smiled again. The man looked. His skin was the color of dark cherrywood, his forehead big and shiny.
He knocked again, and when she turned he frowned and shooed her once more. She shrugged, and started—as well as she could—toward Jerry. The wind up here was strong, and she had a sudden fear of falling through the spaces between the tracks after all. Now that she was closer, she could see that the spaces were larger than she had believed. She would die. She would die trying to make her way toward Jerry. He should never have ventured out onto the tracks. He should never have wanted to come up here. It was sooty. Her coat—still with the conscientious smell of recent dry cleaning—was already dirty. It flapped and caught at her legs. She might trip on it. She took a step. Now there was no place to put her hand, so she leaned over carefully and got down on her hands and knees, but her coat was seriously in the way, and her bag—a flat, attractive, moderately expensive leather bag—thumped at her side. She considered letting it go, dropping it through the space in the tracks and forgetting it. Were things that bad? She backed up and left the bag on the ledge she’d been clinging to, just below the window of the cherrywood man. He seemed to be gone. She considered taking off her coat but was afraid to move that drastically, afraid that its breadth might make a sail in the wind and pull her down. She opened the coat, got back down on her knees, and with one hand yanked the skirt of the coat up behind her, folded over on itself, so that it was out of the way. She began crawling toward Jerry, stopping twice to refold the skirt of the coat.
Jerry was leaning over, clutching his ankle with his free hand. Con didn’t know what she could do for him, but she continued toward him. At last, he reached forward and touched her shoulder.
“Be careful. We’ll both fall,” she said.
“We won’t fall. There isn’t room to fall,” Jerry said. “Kids come up here all the time. If they fell down and died, you’d have read about it in the paper.” 

She ignored him. “Can you walk?” she said.
She heard the sound of a window opening. “I called the cops,” the man with the broad forehead said, leaning out.
“We’re going to be arrested,” Con said.
“At least the cops will get us down first,” Jerry said.
“But I don’t want to be arrested,” Con said. It was too absurd—mother, father, and daughter running afoul of the law in the same week. She’d die of humiliation. She’d be disbarred. Jerry looked cleaner than she felt, almost dapper, his white shirt still looking crisp through his open raincoat. He smiled at her. “It43616e616461 going to be O.K.,” he said. “Then we’ll get married again.”
“I don’t think so,” Con said. She got down on her hands and knees again, and began crawling back. She looked ahead instead of down. The tracks might be poorly fastened. The fastenings would have loosened over the years, and wouldn’t have been kept in repair. Con and Jerry43616e616461 combined weight might send the whole section, with them on top, crashing down.
“The cops are on their way over,” the man called.
Con reached the window and looked up at the man, like an actress playing a dog or a cat. She had an impulse to say, “Woof.” Then, as the man watched, she moved her hands up the short walls at the side of the tracks, so as to get upright again. Jerry was crawling behind her. “My husband is crazy,” she heard herself say. “I’m sorry. He43616e616461 a historian.”
“You’re not allowed to be out there,” the man said.
She said, “Of course not. It43616e616461 not safe. He43616e616461 nuts, and now he43616e616461 hurt. Can we come through your apartment to get down? He can’t get down the way we came up.”
“I don’t know if I can let you do that,” the man said. “I don’t know anything about you.”
“I live on Sterling Place,” Con said. She almost said that Jerry lived in [REDACTED], but remembered that she had called him her husband. “We live on Sterling Place. Prospect Heights?”
The man considered. “My brother lives near there,” he said, as if that proved something. “Wait.” He closed the window.
“I don’t know if I can make it down,” Jerry said. “This ankle is killing me.”
“He’ll be back,” Con said. The man returned and opened the window again. Con retrieved her bag and brushed off her coat as best she could, then made her way over the sill. “I’m sorry to be so dirty,” she said. When she got inside, the man was standing to the side—not blocking her path but leaning against his stove—holding a knife pointed at her. She turned, raising her hand, to tell Jerry to stay outside. Maybe he could scream. Maybe the cops had really been called, and would arrest but also protect them.
“I’m sorry, Ma’am,” the man said. “I have to be sure. You can’t be too careful.”
Con stood still, studying him, then understood. “You think we’re going to hurt you?” she said.
“I let you into my home,” the man said.
This was true. “It43616e616461 all right,” she said to Jerry, who climbed onto the sill and sat there for a moment. He couldn’t put weight on the injured ankle and had to try several times before, with a cry, he ended up on his hands and knees on the man43616e616461 kitchen floor. Now Con supported him as he stood. With the cherrywood man remaining where he was—apparently protecting his stove—they moved side by side, leaning together, across the kitchen, through a sparsely furnished, extremely clean living room, and out into the corridor. There was no elevator, and it took them a few moments to figure out how to get down the stairs. Finally, Jerry hopped, and Con waited below to steady him if he started to tumble. At last they reached the downstairs lobby, crossed it, and, leaning together, made their way outside, stared at by two middle-school kids. “Where43616e616461 the subway?” Jerry said. “We’ll never get a cab around here.” It wasn’t far. Like Marcus Ogilvy43616e616461 train line that never was, they reached Broadway Junction and, a long time later, Jerry hobbled into Con43616e616461 apartment, leaning on her arm.
She installed him on the sofa with an ice pack and the TV remote, then poured herself some [REDACTED]. Glass in hand, she returned to the living room. As she began to speak, her hands seemed to become lighter, harder to control, so she had to put her drink down on a bookcase. She wanted to touch him, but didn’t. Her hands—not the rest of her—wanted to touch him. Her hands had acquired a layer of softer but more highly charged air than that in the rest of the atmosphere; they had their own opinion. She pressed them to her sides. “You need more ice?” she said. “Or some [REDACTED]?”
“A glass of water would be good.” Jerry stared at the television screen. The gray-green knitted blob next to the sofa seemed larger than it had that morning. Six Americans had died in a helicopter crash in 49726171. Maybe Con would check the police report on Joanna43616e616461 arrest, try to figure out if it was legal after all. She retrieved her drink. Her hands still felt lighter and larger than usual, pleasanter than the gray cold hands she’d carried for years. Again she didn’t touch Jerry. She returned to the kitchen and drank, looking at her hands.

