THE VISITOR
By Marisa Silver
The new boy was three-quarters gone. Both legs below the knee and the left arm at the shoulder. Candy spent her lunch hour lying on the lawn outside the V.A. hospital, sending nicotine clouds into the cloudless sky, wondering whether it would be better to have one leg and no arms—or, if you were lucky enough to have an arm and a leg left, whether it would be better to have them on opposite sides, for balance. In her six months as a nurse’s aide, she had become thoughtful about the subtle hierarchy of human disintegration. Blind versus deaf—that was a no-brainer, no brain being perhaps the one wound in her personal calculus that could not be traded in for something worse.
It was sad. Of course it was sad. But she didn’t feel sad. Sad was what people said they were in the face of tragedies as serious as suicide bombings or as minor as a lost earring. It was a word that people used to tidy up and put the problem out of sight.
The grass was making needle-like pricks through the thin material of her maroon scrubs, and she sat up, smoothing her matching V-neck over her chest and belly, feeling the familiar stab of self-consciousness as her hand rode over the unfashionable lumps. In photographs, Candy’s mother, Sylvie, at twentytwo—Candy’s age now—was as skinny as dripping water, but that could have been a result of the drugs. Candy had her grandmother’s build, and she knew that with age her shape would settle into the short, hale block that was Marjorie, less body than space-saver.
Candy glanced at her watch. She still had ten minutes until the end of her break.
She wasn’t sure when she had last felt sad. She knew that she must have been sad when she was eleven and her mother had gone into the hospital for the last time. But she couldn’t actually recall the feeling. She did remember being happy afterward, sitting at her grandmother’s kitchen table picking walnuts out of their shells with the tines of a fork, while Marjorie made phone calls to let people know that Sylvie had landed on her final and terminal addiction: death. She listened to Marjorie say, “My baby diiihd,” the last vestiges of her [REDACTED] accent breathing so much air into the word that Candy could almost see it flying up toward the ceiling of the kitchen like a helium balloon. Sylvie’s presence in Candy’s life had been birdlike. She had swooped into Marjorie’s apartment from time to time to drop a Big Mac into Candy’s waiting mouth, but the enthusiasm that she’d carried with her usually dissipated quickly, smothered as much by Marjorie’s insistence on behaving as if nothing were out of the ordinary as by Candy’s abject need.
Candy recalled feeling another sort of happiness, too, when she had crawled over the railing of the hospital bed in order to lie next to her mother one last time. Marjorie had forced Candy to wear a new party dress she’d sewn the day before. The frock, made with leftover material from the flower-girl dress that Marjorie had been working on, was an embarrassing pink affair that grabbed at the tender buds of Candy’s new breasts with tight smocking. What was the point, Candy had whined, as Marjorie finished off the hem, breathing heavily through her nose, her mouth a cactus of pins. But in the hospital, lying beside her mother, Candy had understood why she was so dressed up: she was there to act out the role of daughter in the hope that Sylvie would wake and finally take up her own part in the charade of parenting that Marjorie had insisted on whenever Sylvie showed up at the apartment—as if Sylvie had come back not for food or a shower or money but to French-braid Candy’s hair or to explain menstruation to her. The metal guardrails on the bed had felt cold against Candy’s thighs. The sensation was shocking in a pleasurable way that she couldn’t name then, but it wasn’t long before she discovered that the faucet in her grandmother’s bathtub could be angled to hit her between the legs just so.
When Candy first started working at the V.A., the other aides had said that it would take her a long time to become “used to it.” They’d told her to look away from the wounds, to focus on the soldiers’ faces as a way to protect the boys from embarrassment and herself from disgust. But she was not disgusted, even when she had to rewrap stumps or sponge gashes that were sewn up like shark bites. She found these molestations frankly interesting, the body deconstructed so that you could see what it really was: just bits and pieces, really, no different from the snatches of fabric that Marjorie wrestled into dresses for Mr. Victor of [REDACTED], the tailor in Burbank who had employed her for thirty-seven years. The nurses praised Candy’s bravery, but when she passed by a group of aides taking their break in the cafeteria one afternoon she knew from their covert glances that they found her strange. She once overheard a girl say that she had no heart.
Well, no heart was better than no brain, Candy thought, as she sucked on the last of her cigarette and stubbed it out in the grass, dismissing the notion that she might cause a brushfire in this hottest of seasons. She knew that hers was not a singular life, that she would not be the cause of anything monumental. Recently, the thermometer had topped out at a hundred and nine in the valley. The power had failed in her grandmother’s apartment complex, where Candy had lived all her life. Marjorie, excited by the idea of a disaster that she might have some control over, had instructed Candy to gather her important papers, as if she expected the apartment to burst into spontaneous flames. Candy scanned the top of her dresser, where her community-college diploma sat in its Plexiglas frame, alongside assorted gift-with-purchase tubes of lipstick and miniature eyeshadow compacts. In a gesture that even at the time she regarded as TV-movie maudlin, she had put her mother’s Communion cross around her neck and lain down on her bed. When she was woken by the sudden snap of lights turning on and the sound of her window fan whirring to life, she took off the necklace and placed it back in her dresser drawer. She showered and went to bed naked, letting the fan blow its slow, oscillating wind across her body.
The new boy’s name was Gregorio Villalobos. Juana, the admitting nurse, told Candy that lobomeant “wolf” in Spanish. Down the hall lay a Putter and a Shooter, boys who clung to their jaunty monikers as though they were one day going to walk out of the hospital and back onto the golf course or the basketball court where they had earned those nicknames. Candy wondered if the new boy had been called El Lobo in the service. She could ask him, but he wouldn’t answer her. He had not yet spoken. He watched her as she moved around the room, his eyes tracking her as if she were a fly and he was waiting for the right moment to bring down his swatter. Most of the boys looked at her when she brought them food or checked on [REDACTED] bags, but their gazes were like those of old dogs: hope combined with the absence of hope. The nurses chattered at the boys as they went about their work, talking about the weather or whatever sports trivia they had picked up from their husbands. In general, the boys went along with this, and Candy often felt as if she were watching a play in which all the actors had agreed to pretend that someone onstage had not just taken a huge shit. Candy knew that the nurses were scared of silence, and perhaps the boys were, too. The truth hid in silence.
Before she left the room, she looked at El Lobo’s chart. It wasn’t her business to read charts, simply to mark down what he did and didn’t eat, did and didn’t expel. She’d received minimal training, most of which had to do with things that anyone who’d ever cleaned a house would know, and she couldn’t understand much of what was written on the chart. But she did understand the phrase “elective muteness.” She stared at El Lobo, feeling words crawling up inside her, pushing to get past her closed lips—that pathetic human need to communicate when there was nothing to say. She had been this way when her mother was alive. On the occasions when Sylvie was home, Candy had told her anything she could think of to tell: what had happened at school that day, what clothing the popular girls were wearing, how pretty she thought Sylvie looked, with her dark hair parted down the center and hanging on either side of her narrow face like a magician’s cape. She’d talk and talk, and the more she suspected that her mother didn’t care what she was saying, the more she’d fill the apartment with her desperate noise.
She replaced the chart on the hook at the foot of the bed and glanced at El Lobo once more before leaving the room. She could hold her silence longer than he could. He had no idea who he was dealing with.
That night, she woke to the sound of her grandmother yelling at the ghost.
“Get outta here riii-ght this minute!” Marjorie said, her accent always thicker when she was torn from her dreams, as if her unconscious resided in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], while the rest of her kept pace in L.A. Water splashed noisily against the porcelain sink in the bathroom between Candy’s and Marjorie’s bedrooms.
Candy lay in her bed, which had been her mother’s childhood bed, the headboard still bearing the Day-Glo flower stickers her mother had affixed to it. Candy tried to imagine Sylvie as a naïve girl who liked stickers, but it was impossible. What she remembered most about her mother was the patchouli scent of her skin, underneath which hid a more elusive, dirty smell, an odor that Candy yearned to excavate whenever Sylvie was near. But Sylvie did not often let her daughter get that close. Even during the times when she was living at home, when she swore to Marjorie that she was clean, and Marjorie decided, all pinny-eyed, fidgety evidence to the contrary, to believe her, Sylvie kept herself apart. She’d take over her old room, leaving Candy to the fold-out sofa in the living room, and Candy would spend the early-evening hours inventing reasons to walk past the bedroom door, hoping that it might open, that she might be invited in.
Candy listened as her grandmother hurried into the bathroom to turn off the faucet.
“Turn that water on again and I’ll murder you!” Marjorie said, on her way past Candy’s room to the kitchen. “It’s quarter past three, for Lord’s sake.”
Candy got out of bed and made her way to the kitchen, too. Marjorie wore her quilted bathrobe, and her bulb of short graying hair was lopsided from lying in bed. She had already set the kettle on the stove. “Ah, she woke you up, too,” she said, shaking her head ruefully.
“You woke me up,” Candy said, sitting down at the table. “You probably woke the whole building.”
“That ghost is running up my water bill. It has to stop.”
“Maybe he’s thirsty,” Candy said.
“He’s a she, and ghosts don’t drink, darlin’. They have no bodies. She just turns on the tap to get my goat. And in a dry season, no less! ” she yelled, shaking her fist in the air, as if the ghost were hiding just outside the kitchen door. The wattle beneath Marjorie’s upper arm wavered and Candy remembered how she had played with that loose skin as a child. Something about her grandmother’s excesses of flesh was comforting. On bad nights, when Candy felt an aching maw open up in her chest, she’d slip into Marjorie’s bed. Her nameless dread was always calmed when her cheeks grazed the loose bags of her grandmother’s nylon-swaddled breasts.
Marjorie set down two mugs on the kitchen table, then brought over the kettle and poured. “I’ll tell you what, though. I’m tired of waking up in the middle of the night. I’m too old for it.”
“Maybe we should have an exorcism.”
“You don’t believe in that foolishness, I hope. Oh, you’re just teasing me, you bad girl,” she added, when she saw Candy’s grin.
“We got a new boy in,” Candy said, changing the subject. “He’s a mess.”
“Ahh,” Marjorie said, sympathetically, replacing the kettle on the stove.
“No one’s come to visit him. It’s been two days.”
“Maybe he has no one.”
“They’re usually there at admitting with their balloons and those smiles. You can see them counting the minutes until they can get the hell out of there.”
“You’re harsh, baby girl. It’s not easy to see something destroyed.”
Candy looked at her grandmother’s hands. Arthritis was beginning to shape them, like some devious sculptor, and it wouldn’t be long before she could no longer work a sewing machine or hold needle and thread. What then? Could they survive on Marjorie’s Social Security and Candy’s pathetic salary? Candy remembered Marjorie’s younger, stronger hands cupping Sylvie’s cheeks as she tried to wake her, tried to get her to stand up from the living-room floor where she had collapsed sometime during the night. “Time to get your girl to school!” she’d say, her determination fending off the futility of her effort. Candy remembered, too, her grandmother’s calloused grip around her own small hand when they made those hurried journeys to school together, more often than not leaving Sylvie behind, curled up on herself like a pill bug.
El Lobo was, of course, where Candy had left him the afternoon before, lying in his bed, gazing up at the ceiling. She raised the mattress so that he was facing forward, placed his breakfast tray on the rolling table, and swung it across the bed. She removed the lid of the oatmeal and the canned pears and peeled off the layer of plastic wrap covering the glass of water. The meal’s monochromatic paleness was disheartening, but Candy dug into the oatmeal with a spoon and lifted it to El Lobo’s mouth. He ate dutifully, but without affect, as if some inner computer chip were responsible for the opening and closing of his lips and the gentle modulations of his throat. He made no eye contact with her. Candy took the opportunity to go vacant as well, a state she had perfected as a child. She’d found that she could continue to do what was required of her—clean her room or go through the motions of paying attention in class, even read out loud if the teacher requested it, while her mind wandered. In that peaceful oblivion, she felt swaddled in cotton, divorced from the feelings that usually plagued her, unworried about what she looked like in her homemade clothing or what others thought of the girl with a grandmother for a mother. The sounds of the other children came at her muffled, harmless. Time passed. She disappeared.
She looked over to find that El Lobo’s chin was covered with syrup where she had missed his mouth. It irked her that he had let this happen without making any sound to alert her to the problem. She wiped him clean, becoming even more irritated when he didn’t seem to register this help, either. She took a last, hard swipe at his mouth. He finally looked at her, and his glance was sharp and full of menace. The ease with which his expression resolved into hatred made it clear that anger was his default position. The nurses talked about the “sweet” boys or the “darling” boys, as if the upside of the physical damage were that it turned a soldier into a feckless three-year-old, thus ridding the world of one more potentially dangerous man. But Candy knew that this boy was neither sweet nor darling, and probably never had been. She imagined him as a bored high-school shark, moving slow and silent through the halls, heavy with his own power and cravings. She had known boys like this, had fucked boys like this.
She marked on his chart the amount of solids and liquids he had consumed, rolled the tray away from his bed, and carried the half-eaten breakfast into the hallway. She spent the next seven hours of her shift changing sheets and emptying bedpans, delivering food baskets that would be at the nurses’ station by day’s end, as most of the patients had restricted diets or were fed through tubes. She wheeled one boy to X-ray through the maze of hallways and elevators. Every time the gurney lurched over a transom, the boy winced in pain. The first few times, she apologized, but then she stopped, because she knew that her regret, like a basket of muffins, was, in some way, an affront.
Later that day, after she had finished her shift, she returned to El Lobo’s room. He was asleep, so she sat in the orange plastic chair in the corner and watched him. As he lay in his bed, covered in blankets, his wounds were invisible; his head, his nutmeg skin, his thick, dark eyebrows and generous, scowling mouth were untouched. A stranger might have thought him one of the lucky ones in this war. Only after his so-called recovery, when he would have to have special clothing made, when he would be assaulted by all the daily acts he could no longer accomplish, would he truly feel the extent of his wounds. She knew about collateral damage, knew that the injuries people saw were never the gravest. After Sylvie died, the school counsellor had brought Candy into her office and handed her a pamphlet called “Teen-Agers and Grief: A Handbook.” She’d told Candy that, although it was against state regulations, she was going to give Candy a hug. She’d had no idea about the hard lump of rage that sat lodged in Candy’s throat like a nut swallowed whole.
After fifteen minutes, El Lobo’s eyes opened. For a second, his expression was soft and pliable, like that of a child waking from a nap, but then his mind took over and something calcified in his features, his muscles hardening against the invasion of thought. His gaze fell on her. She didn’t move, but continued to stare at him. He stared back, his upper lip trembling in what she thought was the beginning of an insult. She felt a tingling in her gut, and her nerves were on alert, as if he had actually grazed her skin with that leftover hand. The second-shift nurse’s voice cut through the silence as she entered and exited rooms along the hallway, announcing pain-relieving meds in a voice as bright and cutting as a laser. Candy stood and walked over to the bed. She reached under the cover and pinched El Lobo hard on his arm. She heard his sharp intake of breath, and slipped out of the room before she was discovered.
At 3 a.m., Marjorie tore into the bathroom.
“You leave me alone!” she yelled. “I’ve done enough for you already.”
Candy decided to stay in bed. A few times, over the five years since the ghost had announced itself, Candy had tried to stay up all night. She thought that if she could just once catch Marjorie turning on the faucet—perhaps it was sleepwalking, or some early sign of senility—she would stop, and Candy could get some rest. But on those nights either the ghost had not appeared or Candy had dropped off to sleep, despite the cans of Coke littering her bedside table.
She heard the sound of the sewing machine clattering into action. The machine slowed and quickened, and Candy imagined her grandmother’s bare foot playing the floor pedal. She knew that she had little chance of getting back to sleep. It was too hot to put on her terry-cloth robe, so, wearing only her T-shirt and underwear, she went into the living room, where Marjorie bent to her task.
“What are you making?” Candy said.
“Right about now, nothing,” Marjorie said. She lifted the foot of the sewing machine and pulled the material out, snipped the threads with a pair of scissors, and set to ripping out what she had done. “Victor gives me two weeks to do a bride and four bridesmaids. Two weeks! The man is losing whatever brains he had to begin with.”
Candy watched her grandmother’s hands shake as she pulled out the tiny stitches with her seam ripper. Marjorie was no longer as adept as she had been when she was younger and able to unroll a bolt of cloth and see every seam and dart, every buttonhole and facing, when she could tell, even before putting one pin into the cloth, how it would all fall together. A dress form stood beside the sewing machine, draped in the raw ivory silk that Marjorie was working with. Headless and armless, the figure tilted slightly on its stand, as if leaning over to tell a secret.
“Expensive,” Candy said, fingering the cloth.
“Hands off!” Marjorie ordered, batting Candy’s hands away lightly, as she had done when Candy was young. “Spend all this money on silk and then give me next to no time to do my job. This missy will be lucky if the whole thing doesn’t come flying apart the minute she starts down the aisle.”
“Where’s the ghost?”
“Gone, that wretched thing. She’ll be back, though. What I ever did to deserve a hauntin’, I’ll never know.”
“Maybe she lived here. Before us. Maybe she wants her place back.”
“And it’s taken her thirty-five years to show up? Uh-uh.”
“What, then?”
“Honey, I’m still trying to figure out the reason people do what they do when they’re alive.” She finished ripping out the stitches, sighed audibly, and fit the material into the machine again.
Candy went to the window and looked out over the apartment courtyard. The management had recently overhauled the space, taking out the grass and flowers that had required watering and replacing them with decorative pebbles. Only the concrete path that had wound through the garden remained. As a child, Candy had ridden her bike between clumps of impatiens and begonia and stands of banana trees, clumsy with their thick, waxy leaves. She knew every turn and straightaway by heart, but, still, there had been danger inherent in each corner, the thrill of heading into the unseen. She’d been eight when she’d made a turn around a bushel of bamboo and seen her mother lying asleep, across the doormat of Marjorie’s apartment. Candy had parked her bike against the wall and squatted down next to Sylvie. She looked pretty lying there, like the illustration of Sleeping Beauty in one of Candy’s library books. Candy watched her for a while, as if studying an insect, noting the little flutters of her eyelids and lips, her long, corded neck, the muscles of which seemed tense, even in sleep. Finally, she stepped over her mother and went inside.
“Mommy’s back,” she told Marjorie, who was hunched over her machine.
Together, they carried an incoherent and moaning Sylvie into the bathroom. Candy sat on the lid of the toilet while Marjorie ran the bath, undressed her daughter, and coaxed her into the water. Sylvie cursed her mother, calling her a bitch and a cunt, but Marjorie didn’t react, only shushed her the way she shushed Candy when she was crying over a scraped knee, as if silence trumped pain. Once Sylvie was in the bath, she lay with her eyes closed, head back against the edge of the tub, while Marjorie gently soaped her body, lifting her arms one by one, cleaning between her small breasts and her legs. “Beautiful girl,” she sang in an errant, unidentifiable tune. “Beautiful baby girl.” Later, the three ate chicken with mushroom-soup sauce at the kitchen table and watched MTV on the twenty-one-inch Sony. In the morning, Sylvie was gone, along with the television.
The apartment was reduced bit by bit over the following years. The microwave followed the television, and then some of Marjorie’s jewelry disappeared. Each time Candy came back to the apartment after school, she entered with trepidation, waiting to see what was missing. The relief she felt when she realized that Sylvie had not stolen anything new was always tempered by disappointment. When she and Marjorie arrived home from church one Sunday to find the space where the stereo had sat looking as vacant as a missing tooth, Candy had felt a rush of elation. Her mother had been in the apartment. Her breath, her dirty, pretty smell still hung in the air. Marjorie never got angry about the thefts. She’d just stand, hands on hips, facing the emptiness, and inhale deeply as if acquainting herself with the new geography of her life.
But when Candy was ten, and she and Marjorie returned from the grocery store to find that Marjorie’s black Singer Featherweight, the hand-me-down from her mother and grandmother that she had oiled and massaged and kept going for years, was gone, she went to her bedroom and didn’t come out until the following morning. Candy poured herself a bowl of Frosted Flakes and sat on the couch waiting for Marjorie to show her, as she always did, how to skirt this new boulder in her life, but she didn’t open her door.
“Are you mad?” Candy asked the next morning, when Marjorie finally came out of her room, her face blotchy.
Marjorie fingered the thin pages of the phone book, looking for the number of a locksmith. “I’m just tired,” she said softly. Two weeks later, Marjorie held Candy’s hand at the kitchen table as they listened to Sylvie struggle to turn her key in the front-door lock.
“I know you’re in there!” Sylvie yelled, pounding on the door.
Candy looked at Marjorie, who held her finger to her lips, and the two sat in rigid silence. Giving up on the door, Sylvie came to the kitchen window. She pressed her pallid and wild-eyed face up to the glass so that her nose and lips flattened and distorted.
“Let her in, Grandma. Please,” Candy said.
“We don’t want any visitors just now,” Marjorie said.
For the next year, until her mother’s death, Candy often had the feeling of being shadowed, as if a huge prehistoric bird were passing over her, but when she looked up there was nothing there.
El Lobo had his eyes closed when Candy brought in his breakfast the next day, but she knew he wasn’t asleep—there was something too effortful about his breathing. Noisily, she set up the tray table and dragged her chair to the side of his bed. When he finally opened his eyes, he stared, again, at the opposite wall. This time, she did not feed him but simply sat and waited for him to say something. He did not move or shift his gaze. The air in the room stiffened with tension, but neither one gave in. After ten minutes, she rolled the table away from the bed and took the uneaten food from the room. In the hallway, she met up with Tammy, the floor nurse.
“What happened?” Tammy said, eying the uneaten food.
“He’s not hungry.”
“He said this?” Tammy said, warily.
“He made it clear.”
“He spoke?”
“He wasn’t hungry,” Candy repeated. “I’m not supposed to force-feed.”
“Well,” Tammy said, considering, “did you mark it down?”
Candy nodded. “Zero in. Zero out.”
“It’s bath time, anyway. Give me some help.”
After gathering supplies and filling a small bowl with warm water, Candy came back into El Lobo’s room. Tammy leaned over the bed and pulled El Lobo toward her. “Candy, get the tie,” she said.
Candy put down her supplies and came around the bed. She saw El Lobo’s dark skin where the hospital gown split open in the back. A fine down feathered away from his spine. She resisted the urge to touch that fur. She undid the tie and watched while Tammy gently laid El Lobo back against his pillows, then drew the gown down past his shoulders and chest. The dressing covering the wound where his arm had been was secured by white bandages that stretched across his breastbone, contrasting with his dark skin and his nearly black nipples.
“We’re just going to do a little spa treatment!” Tammy said loudly. “How’s that?”
El Lobo said nothing and Tammy chattered on, explaining that they would not be taking off his dressing but would just wash around it to freshen him up, and that the doctor would be in later to see how he was doing, and wasn’t he doing well, Candy? Good color in his face. Like he’d been to the beach! Have you been sneaking out of here and hitting the beach? Ha-ha-ha. All the while she sponged his chest, neck, and face, and then, reaching down under the blanket with the warm cloth, her head turned to the side as if to control her urge to look, Tammy cleaned him off below. Candy doled out fresh, damp cloths and took away the used ones, then held a bowl under El Lobo’s mouth while Tammy brushed his teeth. Spit! Good one! Spit again! They dressed him in a clean gown. Hello, gorgeous!
Candy knew just what El Lobo, with his pliant body and immobile gaze, was up to. She felt a warm rush of anger start in her stomach and rise into her throat. She wanted to hit him. She wanted to hear him react.
“Candy. We have a situation here.”
Candy looked over and watched as a stain spread across the sheet covering El Lobo’s lower half.
“That’s just a normal thing, honey,” Tammy said to El Lobo. “You get that warm water down there and it makes you want to go, right?”
She began to remove the wet sheet covering El Lobo, but her beeper went off. She checked the readout and handed the sheet to Candy. “I’ll call for an orderly,” she said, and left the room.
Candy looked at El Lobo, whose head was turned away. She left the room, threw the dirty sheet in the laundry chute, and got a clean gown and fresh bedding from the supply closet. She looked down the hall for the orderly, but no one was coming. She waited next to El Lobo’s door. After a few minutes, the orderly still had not come, and Candy was angry. Angry at the hospital for making her take care of this when it was not part of her job, angry because El Lobo had to lie there in his own piss and stink. She moved to the bed, thinking that she would change his tunic first. That would be easy enough to do alone, and by the time she was done the orderly would have arrived. But then she realized that if she did not change the bottom sheet first, his new gown would become wet, and she’d have to do the whole thing over again. So carefully, as if handling something breakable, she rolled El Lobo onto his good side. He was heavier than she expected a person with most of his body missing to be, and he did nothing to help her. When she stopped pushing, he fell back rather than staying on his side. Her frustration with him and his intransigence welled up and she was thinking of leaving, letting him lie in his own mess until the orderly arrived, when she noticed that his eyes were not simply closed but squeezed shut, like those of a child playing hide-and-seek.
Carefully, she pushed him onto his side again, this time bracing herself against his back as she inched the sheet out from under him. It was hard work, but she was careful not to make any sounds that would allow him to sense her frustration. She reached for a wet towel and quickly swiped it across the mattress, then shook out a clean sheet and managed to slip it underneath him just as he was becoming too heavy for her to hold where he was. She laid him back down and walked around the bed, working the sheet until it lay reasonably flat. Next, she undid his tunic and pulled it from his body. She plunged a washcloth into the bowl of now lukewarm water and gently cleaned him off. She wiped around his belly and his groin, reached under him to get at his backside. His soft, pale penis lay against his thigh, as bald as a newborn puppy, but she did not take her eyes away. This was his body. It deserved to be seen. She dressed him in a fresh gown, holding him against her chest as she tied the strings. She knew that she could not hold him by the shoulders to lay him back against his pillows because of his pain there, so she kept her arms around his ribs and leaned him all the way down as if she were embracing him. When she pulled away, his eyes were open, and she saw, for a brief second, the arrow of his hatred for her and for everything that had happened to him bending back on itself and aiming straight into his own heart.
Marjorie was sewing at the machine when the power went out. It was ten o’clock at night, and the darkness was sudden and blinding. For a moment, both Candy and Marjorie froze where they were in the living room.
“Oh, shoot. I’m just in the middle of something, too,” Marjorie said, finally. “Get the flashlights.” 

Candy felt her way down the hall and into the kitchen, struck by how frightening real darkness was. For a brief moment, she felt panic rise up in her. What if the power never cameback on? What if they all had to grope around in this darkness forever? She turned on the flashlights and brought them into the living room, glad to be near her grandmother again.
“It’s getting hotter already,” Marjorie said.
Candy opened the windows to the courtyard, but when she went to the other side of the room to open the street windows for a cross breeze Marjorie stopped her.
“Thieves,” she said. “They just wait for times like this.”
Candy could already feel sweat forming in the creases of her underarms and beneath her breasts. She took one of the flashlights and trained it on the thermostat.
“It’s already eighty in here.”
Marjorie went to her machine and slid the material out from under the foot. “I guess I’ll have to do this by hand if I’m gonna be finished in time. Shine that light over here.”
Candy stood above Marjorie and trained her flashlight onto the pearly white material. She watched as her grandmother struggled to thread a needle with fingers that were beginning to bend at odd angles, like old trees.
“I need glasses,” Marjorie said, missing the eye of the needle and wetting the tip of the thread between her lips.
“Want me to do it?” Candy offered.
“I can thread my own needle, thank you. Been doing it half my lifetime.”
She was successful on the next try, drew the thread out, and tied a knot at the bottom. She adjusted the material on her lap. Candy watched as Marjorie attempted to work the needle through the material in the seed-size stitches required for the seam she was sewing. The stitches were uneven, and Candy waited for Marjorie to stop, or get out her seam ripper, but she continued, her breath coming hard out of her nose as she pursed her lips. Candy felt heat rise in her face as she watched her grandmother’s awkward, determined work.
“The power will probably come back on soon,” Candy said, trying to keep her voice neutral.
“And if it doesn’t? I’ve got a bride here who’s not gonna care about my excuses if her dress isn’t ready in time.”
Candy tried to imagine the bride that her grandmother could see in this material bunched up on her lap. Was she short, tall? Full-breasted or flat? Was her grandmother conjuring up a beauty when the reality was far different?
“What’s she like?”
“Who?”
“The bride.”
“They’re all the same, you know. Just girls. They don’t know what’s happening to them. Oh! Oh!”
Candy saw the spot of red and snatched the cloth off her grandmother’s lap before the blood could spread any farther on the material. She reached for her grandmother’s hand. “Don’t move,” she said. “I’ll get a Band-Aid.”
When she returned from the bathroom, Marjorie was standing and holding the wedding dress out in front of her with her good hand so that it fell into its bodiless shape.
“It’s pretty,” Candy said.
“It’s beyond repair.”
It was impossible to sleep. Even with the windows open, the bedroom was close, the heat making it almost hard to breathe. Candy lay on top of her covers, her arms and legs spread out so that her skin didn’t chafe. Marjorie’s bedroom door opened, and Candy listened as her grandmother went into the bathroom, then she got up quickly. If she was quiet, perhaps she could catch her grandmother turning on the water. But as her hand touched the doorknob she stopped herself and sat back down on her bed.
“Get out! Get out! Come on, now! ” she heard her grandmother say, in the gentle, forgiving tone she’d used when she bathed Sylvie or when Candy touched her material with dirty hands, as if their transgressions didn’t really bother her at all, as if she were grateful for the intrusion. 

