SWIMMING
BY T COOPER
People say to me, “Didn’t you hear anything?,” or “Why didn’t you stop when you felt something hit the bumper?” But I don’t know how to answer either question. He was just there with us, alive, one minute, as we were eating barbecue and watching the Super Bowl on TV at my brother-in-law’s house, and then the next minute he was dead—very dead—under our car. I sold the car after that. My wife strongly suggested I do so, and that was when I was still trying to do pretty much anything she strongly suggested. In the end, I suppose that’s what made it possible for me to come to [REDACTED]. I got something like twelve grand, cash, for that car.
I’ve been living in Kep for a year and a half now, in a crappy little two-room bungalow I rent on the beach. It’s fifty dollars a month, and it’s literally on the beach, the wild gray Gulf of [REDACTED] chop not twenty feet from where I lay my head at night. I think I fit in pretty well here, as well as a white guy can. A haole, or cracker, not that those names apply here. The 43616d626f646961ns don’t seem to have a derogatory name for “white person.” In [REDACTED], there’s farang, but that’s not really derogatory—they’ll say it to your face. And I don’t think there’s an equivalent in Khmer. At least, if there is one I don’t know it.
Only two people in town know that I killed my son. There’s the expat Colin, who runs the coffee shop and guesthouse in Kampot, and there’s Veata, but I never know how much of what I tell her she really understands. It came up not long after I learned that she had a son, a fact that she had been keeping from me because—you know what? I don’t know why she was keeping it from me. I think her mother had told her to. But I’m no smitten soldier boy—I’m not going to take Veata home with me and send money back to her family every month. So I didn’t really care that she had a son—it didn’t matter either way. Which is also why I can admit that Angel’s actually kind of cute. He’s named after Veata’s patron saint, Angelina Jolie. Veata says, “He handsome like Maddox,” and she styles his hair in a faux hawk. He’s the only five-year-old running around Kampot with a faux hawk and trendy camouflage pants.
The day I learned who Angel was, Veata and I had just finished having sex, when her parents burst into the front room of my house with Angel wrapped in a blanket. He was bleeding from his nose, listless. I’d seen him a couple of times before, when Veata was looking after him, but she’d told me that he was her sister’s son and that she was just babysitting.
Veata threw on my robe, and I quickly pulled on some boxers and scrub bottoms and went out to the other room, shirtless, to see what the problem was. Veata’s father stared at the tattoo on my chest. I assumed that he wanted to kill me. If I were him, I would’ve wanted to kill me, too. But he didn’t. When you have next to nothing, I guess it’s not so insane to pin your hopes to a silly daughter’s fantasies and faux hawks.
Veata’s father put Angel on the floor, and I knelt over him. Veata and her parents spoke in Khmer, very softly and quickly, so as to prevent me from understanding. I can speak very rudimentary Khmer, but I can understand a great deal more after living here for so long, so I knew that Veata was telling her parents not to reveal that Angel was her son, and her mother was replying that Angel was very sick and they needed my help.
During my first week in town, I witnessed a really brutal motorcycle-versus-truck accident on the road between Kampot and Kep. One person—the driver of the motorcycle—died, and his passenger’s leg snapped in half. I temporarily set this guy’s open-femur fracture and stabilized him so that he could get on the bus to the hospital in Phnom Penh, three hours away. Word got around, and after that ailing villagers sometimes showed up at my door. I generally just directed them to the clinic in town, which has 43616e616461s and antibiotics and basic first-aid stuff that I don’t have. But if they were really poor, and I could handle the problem, I’d do it myself. I didn’t take their money, and the clinic took a lot.
So there was Angel on the ground, bleeding from his little nose, and Veata’s mother started to cry in little muffled hiccups, and then Veata started to cry even louder, and all I wanted her to do was go back into the bedroom and put some clothes on so that she wouldn’t be standing there with her titties hanging out of my robe in front of her father. I took the kid’s pulse and counted his respirations. He was very hot to the touch.
“Why did you bring him all the way here instead of to the clinic?” I asked.
Nobody said anything.
“Clinic? Kampot town?” I repeated.
Veata’s father shook his head twice, quickly, like he was saying no to a price in a negotiation.
“I don’t have what he needs,” I said.
I didn’t feel anything looking at that kid. Not one thing beyond the clinical. It was obvious by then that he was Veata’s child. I could see it just by looking at his pretty face.
Veata’s parents didn’t speak a word of English, so I asked her, “What do they want?”
“They walk here” is all she said.
I tried to get Angel to drink some water from a glass, but he wouldn’t take any, and the blood from his upper lip dripped into the glass of water, dispersing into a puff of maroon haze. I picked him up, rewrapped the blanket around him, and passed him over to Veata. I pulled on a T-shirt in the bedroom, and then came back out and took Angel again, nodding toward the bedroom for Veata to go in and get dressed.
Veata’s parents just stood there staring at me while she was gone. A storm was coming in off the gulf; you could feel a change in the humid wind. The waves lapped more frequently on the sand behind my house, rocks rolling noisily over themselves.
The wrinkles in Veata’s father’s face were positively elephant-like. He’d seen a lot. It was probably a miracle that he was alive. But I didn’t want to hear the story of his hiding out in some cave for years while Pol Pot killed the rest of his family or any crazy shit like that. I didn’t want to have to care, to have to marry his daughter and have a little half-American, half-Khmer kid who’d play soccer really well and have a funky haircut and be especially popular at the prep school we’d send him to in [REDACTED] or [REDACTED].
Mercifully, Veata came back clothed and we headed out front to my motorcycle. I told her to hold onto Angel and get on the back. Her parents followed us out and wordlessly watched us go. I looked back over my shoulder, pretending to check for cars—which never come by here—and caught a glimpse of them standing a couple of feet apart in front of my little house off the main dirt road.
At the clinic, I asked the nurse to start Angel on an [REDACTED] drip, just basic Ringer’s lactate, and then to push some antibiotics as soon as we realized he had an infection going on. He was burning up: 105. Kids can die with that kind of fever. When I was a boy, I used to get fevers like that, and my mother would sit me in an ice-cold bath and pretend to make different outfits out of washcloths (tuxedo, tank top, wetsuit), draping the freezing wet cloths over my chest, arms, and head in hope of bringing down my temperature and avoiding a trip to the emergency room.
Angel had to stay at the clinic overnight. I left Veata there and drove the fifteen miles back to my place, shuttling first her mother and then her father back to the clinic to be with her. I didn’t say anything to either of them the whole time. Except once, when I gestured to Veata’s mother to watch out for the muffler on the bike, which was searing hot, just millimetres away from her thigh. When all three of them were at the clinic together, I turned to head back home, but Veata came out onto the deck and grabbed my elbow with her bony, birdlike fingers.
“I have to get my swim in,” I said to her. “Swim?”
I had to get my swim in. My daily swim that I paid good money at a good exchange rate to insure.
She looked at me with those full eyes, the kind that peek out of the tourist brochures for Southeast Asian cruises that stop in seven countries in seven days. I wanted to see hatred in those eyes, but all I saw was my own reflection.
“I had a son,” I said then.
“You have son?” she asked.
“Yes,” I said, looking across the street, over the Kampot River and up at Bokor Mountain. Fog was hanging from the places where the jungle protruded from the dark-green mountain. “I killed him, though. I killed him.”
I don’t know why I always said things twice around her. Ostensibly it was because she didn’t understand English very well, but I’m sure that there was some other reason. Some sort of superiority thing. I have that. Doctors have that. Even doctors in training, like I was.
“I hit him with my car—accident,” I said. “He ran in front of the car. I hit him. Accident.”
Veata’s mother came out onto the deck then, the torn screen door slamming shut behind her. She spoke softly to her daughter, and I stepped aside and lit a cigarette to give them some privacy. After a few exchanges with her mother, Veata turned to me and said, “Cockroach go in Angel nose.”
This was something I’d heard about in med school. I remember the textbook for my pediatrics course saying something to the effect of “If a child presents with an infection and is a resident of a lower-income neighborhood, such as a housing project or other state- or city-subsidized environment, suspect an insect as a potential aggravating factor.”
Insects tend to crawl into small, dark, moist spaces. Seals crawl up onto land. Whales beach themselves. But I did not want to miss my daily swim. It was my right. For killing my child I had earned the right to swim once a day in the beautiful and sometimes smelly Gulf of [REDACTED]. The right to fuck the youngest, hottest girl with the tightest pussy in town and make her fall in love with me and yet bear no responsibility toward her or her family beyond shuttling them to the clinic when their grandchild was ill. My God-given rights.
I missed my swim that day. The nurse-practitioner sedated Angel, extracted the roach from his nose, and amped up his antibiotics. He would soon be fine, back running around Kampot’s red-mud streets with his black hair spiked and newly shorn, just like Maddox Jolie’s.
It started raining while I was on the road to my house, and my rear brake stopped working. I pulled to the side of the road, where some kids were playing in the three inches of water that filled the small, square rice paddy in front of their house. It was a one-ox, two-story household, and there were a bunch of crusty chickens huddling under a tree to escape the rain. The boys looked up at me and laughed, pointing. Muddy water dripped from my hair into my eyebrows, lashes, and eyes, as I knelt to unscrew the lever that activated the rear brake. It had been wailing like crazy as I drove, metal on metal, but I didn’t have the time to deal with it then. Nor the tools. So I drove about five miles per hour the rest of the way back to Kep, using only my front brake—and sparingly at that. Stuck in second gear with a squirrelly front brake, I finally gave up all hope of a swim. It was dark, and it wasn’t worth risking a jellyfish crossing my path.
The next day, I went for my swim the minute I woke up. My swim. I wanted to make up for having missed the day before. I wondered momentarily about Angel’s infection, but as quickly as the thought had entered my consciousness it was gone again, and I was pulling on my trunks, swallowing a couple of little starchy bananas, and stepping out onto the bright beach. The storm had passed during the night, and there was some debris on the shore, a few stray coconuts and palm branches. The water was uncharacteristically glassy. I waded out up to my waist, pulled my goggles on, and dived in, staying submerged and swimming as long as I could before my first breath ran out. The water was too warm, but I pumped away freestyle, going as hard as I could for probably fifteen minutes before I felt even remotely winded. I felt as if I could sprint like that for hours. You know that feeling when you can’t get enough breath and every time you turn up for air you don’t know if you’re going to get a salty mouthful down your gullet or not? That feeling where you’re pushing so hard that you understand how a body could just as easily die as live, that living is just the absence of death, and thus always in a relationship with death? That’s what it had felt like fucking Veata that morning, too—like, bring it on, I don’t care—and then there was the frantic knock on the door and her parents were in my front room, and I thought I’d derive at least some satisfaction from staring that man, her father, in the face when he knew full well I’d been pounding away at his daughter seconds before. But you know what? There was nothing there. I felt more sorry for him than anything else, standing there all skinny and no taller than my own mother, holding his limp little camouflaged grandson in his arms.
I was swimming around the other side of the point and saw a long purple jellyfish in front of me, a few feet below. I turned toward the beach in case he had friends. I was in unfamiliar water, but I didn’t slow my stroke. I kept going, around the next bend and past the abandoned cinder-block house with no roof where a pack of dogs live with their pups. I kept cutting through that thick water, my shoulders burning in the water-magnified sun, and then all of a sudden I got this acute feeling that I’d forgotten something, something really big—that jittery flutter running the length of my musculature which I used to get sometimes even before Jake died. Even the water tasted different, as if something metallic were making all the particles buzz.
I stopped my stroke, pulled up, and trod water. I pushed my goggles up onto my forehead, and as my vision un-blurred I saw that there were three or four guys on the beach, standing around a massive, bloated dead animal. As I paddled closer I realized that it was a whale shark, its head and mouth smashed in, trailing thick blood into the water from the beach. Tiny waves lapped at the creature’s wide mouth.
I swam all the way in to shore, and when I stepped onto the sand I looked at my arms and legs, a red film hewing to the hair and the skin. I stood on the edge of the scene, but only one of the guys noticed me at first. He just turned and looked with no discernible expression on his face. He was beautiful like a woman. He turned back and said something to the two men who were on the other side of the fish, hacking away at the connective tissue around its liver. It was gigantic, the liver—blood-purple—and the two guys were covered in bloody entrails. The man who’d noticed me walked up the fish’s tail then and stood on top of the creature, cockily resting an elbow on the dorsal fin as if he were bellying up to a bar. The thing had to be thirty or forty feet long.
I wasn’t angry when Jake died. But those guys’ girlish little necks—I pictured my hands gripping them each tightly, and then snap, snap, snap. I walked closer, still catching my breath from the workout or the panic attack or both. None of the men smiled or really acknowledged me at all, though I vaguely recognized the one who was standing on top of the fish from the market in Kampot. The others just kept sawing away at the creature, whose spotted skin was now dull and rubbery in the sunlight. Dime-size flies had moved in, a swarm of them in the heat, and a few of the neighboring stray dogs sat in the shade on the perimeter, waiting to clean up. The men continued to ignore me, even when I stepped around behind them to get a closer look at the whale shark’s liver and chest cavity.
When my wife asked me to take a temporary leave from the hospital to spend time with her, I took a leave from the hospital and spent all my time with her.
When she asked me to move us to [REDACTED] to be closer to her family, we moved to [REDACTED] to be closer to her family.
When she asked me to move us back to the city to get away from her family, I found us a condo in Chelsea.
When she went off the pill and asked me to make love to her, I dropped everything and made love to her.
When she asked me not to touch her again, I didn’t touch her. I slept on the couch and watched five straight seasons of “m*a*s*h” reruns on the Hallmark Channel from eleven to one every week night. On weekends I played Internet poker, against a guy from [REDACTED] named Hal.
When she asked me to do something—anything—to show that I was as destroyed by this as she was, I dragged her to a hipster tattoo studio in Williamsburg and squeezed her hand while a mook with Johnny Cash-black hair and dice tattooed on each of his knuckles carved Jake’s name into my chest in huge Gothic script.
When she asked me to go back to work, I tried to get a residency in [REDACTED]. And when I couldn’t get a residency in [REDACTED] I got one in [REDACTED] and commuted to [REDACTED], making it back to sleep on the couch every off-duty night, without exception.
When she said she needed to be distracted, to get a job of her own, I told her to get a job of her own, and she did, volunteering at a local public-radio station downtown.
When she said that there was a paid opening at the station and she wanted to apply for it, I said, Great, apply for the paid position, and so she did, and she got the job and worked a hectic nonprofit schedule, sometimes six days a week.
When she asked me to donate to the station and come to the holiday party, I donated to the station, put on a festive tie, and brought a fruitcake to the holiday party.
When she said that she needed to spend time with the producer of the afternoon music show because he understood her, because he’d lost a child to cancer, I said, Great, spend time with the producer of the afternoon music show because he lost a child to cancer.
And when she asked me to leave I left.
The producer moved in, and I took a little chunk of cash, left the rest for her, and bought a ticket to [REDACTED].
I said that I was sorry. I’d thought he was inside. I wasn’t drinking. I was just tired. I didn’t even like football, or barbecue, or her brother’s wife, the frigid bitch. And I couldn’t say whether I’d heard something hit the bumper or not. I didn’t know I’d hit anything—hit him—until I finished parking the car and saw his little shoe by the tire. Obviously, if I’d heard something I would have stopped. I’ve stopped for less. I’ve stopped for a squirrel.
I drove my bike to Colin’s coffeehouse in Kampot and researched whale sharks on the Internet. They were threatened and protected, but a set of fins went for five hundred dollars a kilo, in the right hands. And the liver was like gold.
An Australian girl with a pink bandanna on her head was giggling loudly at the computer behind me as I read. She was instant-messaging her parents back home for more money, and detailing the conversation for her friend, loud enough so that everyone in the coffeehouse could hear. I fantasized about sending somebody to Phnom Penh to rob her when she visited the cash machine. Just to show her.
Before getting off the computer, I logged onto my e-mail account, which I hadn’t checked in a couple of weeks. There were a few new messages there, one from my wife from a week before. I opened it and read the first line. She’d sent the divorce papers for me to sign months ago, but I hadn’t picked them up from general delivery, and they hadn’t been returned to her, either, so she didn’t know what to do.
“Colin, can I use this address for some documents I need?” I called over my shoulder.
“Sure.”
I hit Reply and typed Colin’s name and business address, then skimmed over the rest of her note as an afterthought. She said that she was pregnant—with a girl—and wanted to get married to What’s His Face before she delivered, in a few months. I hit Return a few times after Colin’s address, and wrote, “I hope you feel better this time around,” before going back and erasing the line. When she was pregnant with Jake, she threw up for three months straight. I started typing again, “I hope you don’t get sick as much,” but then erased the “as much” and stared at the blinking cursor after “sick” for a few minutes.
Colin brought my coffee and set it next to the keyboard. Espresso was apparently the one thing I truly couldn’t live without. “Here you go, man. Enjoy,” he said.
I typed a period and hit Return, and then, “Enjoy it this time.” I quickly erased “this time,” hit the period key again, and left it at that. “Enjoy it_.”_ I clicked Send, logged out, and took a sip of my coffee, which seared my tongue. I love that first sip.
Driving back to Kep later that evening, I took the side road that hugs the coastline until I got to the house where the dogs live, which was surprisingly quiet and empty for that time of night. I pulled out onto the sand through the brush, and my back wheel got stuck a few times, but I walked the bike out of the holes and managed to get onto wetter sand.
All that was left of the whale shark was a bunch of slop. There were about fifty dogs fighting over it in the bloody sand. I vomited a little from the smell. Indescribable. I covered my nose and mouth, straddling my idling bike. It was getting dark, but the moon was bright enough for me to see two very wide, deep tire tracks in the sand, leading all the way back up to the main road.
I didn’t go back to Kampot town for a couple of days, or maybe a week, and I can’t honestly say what I did that whole time. I barely ate. I did swim every day, sometimes twice. I drank up my stash of warm beer, and when I ran out of food and water and was low on gas I headed to Kampot for supplies. I swear Veata can sense me coming from a mile away—she’s like a dog that way—because she was in front of the market before I could swing my leg over my bike seat and cut the engine.
“Where you been?” she asked.
“Home.”
“Why you go to police? Why you go say Sopat do something wrong?”
“Because he did—he did do something wrong.”
“No, no, he didn’t do something wrong,” she said. It was the first time she had ever not been in complete agreement with me. “He say you do something wrong.”
“Me? Me. I did something wrong,” I said. “That’s great. That’s just fucking great.”
“Sopat say you make a hard time for him and all of them. Now they come and want more money from them. They take away the fins.”
“Who? Who took the fins?”
“You know who,” she said. “You—”
“Well, whale sharks are protected,” I said. “They’re all dying, and nobody’s supposed to kill them. Not your cousin, nobody.”
“Sopat, he is very angry.”
“I don’t care if Sopat is angry.”
“He say he just swim up on beach. The fish just swim right up on beach and he was very sick.”
“He didn’t swim up onto the beach, Veata.”
“He do that. Sopat say he do that.”
“No, he didn’t. They killed that poor thing. They went out and killed it. Its face was bashed in!” I yelled.
Veata flinched ever so slightly when I raised my voice, and with a swift kick to the fuel tank that came virtually out of nowhere she knocked my motorcycle over, and it crashed to the ground noisily, gasoline spilling into the dirt, spewing a little purple rainbow.
“What the fuck are you doing?” I screamed, even louder than before, and a few people nervously looked my way from the outer edge of the market—the same outdoor market where I’d first spotted Veata, in my second week in town. She and her friends had giggled uncontrollably from behind her uncle’s vegetable stand, where they were helping out. They had continued to laugh when I came up and asked in English to buy a loaf of bread that Veata’s mother was selling.
Alas, the flirty Veata smile was no different from the one she sported after kicking over my motorcycle. I picked up my bike and reset the kickstand. My left rearview mirror was broken. “You’re fucking crazy,” I spat. She just kept smiling.
Out of the corner of my eye I saw Veata’s mother approaching, with Angel in tow. When Angel spotted his mother he ran up and hugged her around the thighs, the way little boys do. He eyed me suspiciously, but I could tell that he wanted me to pay attention to him. Veata’s mother said something in Khmer and then motioned toward me.
“My mother say my father say he want to thank you for taking care of Angel,” Veata said.
“I didn’t do anything for Angel.”
“Well,” she said, her mother nodding and smiling behind her, “we have a special dinner tonight, and my father, he want you to come.”
“No, I can’t,” I said. I knew full well how rude this was.
Veata’s mother frowned. Veata looked like she hated me. Pure hatred, and I had to agree.
“What do you want me to do?” I asked her.
She didn’t answer. Her mother said something again, and Veata argued with her. Angel kept looking up at me from his mother’s leg, his little faux hawk crooked and flattened in the back.
“My mother say you must come. My father, he will be very sad if you don’t come,” Veata said.
“O.K., O.K.,” I said, and then, “Thank you, thank you very much,” to Veata’s mother.
Veata’s family’s house was smaller than the one I was living in, but a pungent fishy coconut smell filled the place, and it seemed larger than it actually was. Angel ran around like a maniac as soon as I arrived, probably because his mother visibly stiffened at my presence. Veata’s father greeted me with a slight bow and led me to a table to sit. He poured me a whiskey, and sat only after I did. We drank in silence, nodding and smiling every so often until Veata’s cousin—Sopat, the whale-shark killer—showed up, eying me.
“Maybe I should go?” I whispered to Veata.
“Why you go?” Sopat asked politely.
“We eat now,” Veata said.
Her mother came out with two large bowls of coconut milk with garlic, onion, potatoes, and chunks of white flesh floating in it. It smelled wonderful. She put some rice in front of me on a small table and motioned for me to start eating, but I didn’t want to until everybody sat. Eventually, Sopat sat across from me, and after she put Angel to sleep on a mat on the floor Veata joined us, followed, finally, by her father. Her mother kept working by the stove.
“You like?” Sopat asked.
My cue to take a bite of rice drenched in the thick soup. The potatoes practically melted on my tongue, and the broth was spiced perfectly. But the fish was rubbery and oily when I got to chewing it. My gag reflex kicked in, and I looked for a napkin to spit. I could feel the sweat dripping under my arms. But soon the coconut milk counterbalanced the oil, and I swallowed. Veata’s father smiled at me expectantly, and as the partially chewed mixture went down my throat I managed a version of the same smile we had been exchanging over liquor before.
Everybody started eating once I did, even Veata’s mother, who sat on a stool behind her nephew and her husband. We ate in silence for the most part, with Veata and Sopat speaking intermittently, I couldn’t catch what about, but it seemed to be small talk. Sopat stared at me unsmilingly between bites.
I looked at Veata’s father there, rail-thin and stooped over his chipped bowl, chewing each bite for what seemed like ten minutes. He should’ve been Veata’s grandfather, not her father. In his face there was something I’d never seen in my own father’s—nor in my own, to be perfectly honest. He looked peaceful, happy even. Proud to be feeding a guest from whom he’d sought help just a week before.
I’d had the nerve to pity him. All the while he could’ve been pitying me. Or should’ve been. He chewed and smiled, chewed and smiled, and against all my own rules I found myself wondering about him, so I said as much to Veata after I’d managed to swallow another oily, briny mouthful.
She looked at me, stunned by the inquiry.
She began, “Father lost his first family to Khmer Rouge. They kill his two son in front of his eye because he try to hide them in the house. His wife, she die working in the camp, and—” Veata stopped, searching my eyes for a sign that she’d said too much.
Her father kept smiling between bites while Veata talked, telling me how he had found his way south to Kampot in 1980, during the famine. He had no idea what she was saying, but there he was, chewing his food full-cheeked as if he dined in this manner all the time. Dined like the King of [REDACTED]. Feasting upon the meat that kings eat. 

