MR. BONES
By Paul Theroux


Whenever I get sentimental and tell people how my father used to read to me and encourage me, I realize that I’m lying. Is it a gesture of kindness toward him—like “You look marvellous!” (something he used to say), or “Pretty as a picture!” (seldom true), or “Looks good enough to eat!” (of my mother’s gristly meat loaf)? Generosity, I suppose, can often verge on the satirical.
My father, apparently a simple, cheery soul, was impossible to know. In his lifetime, I found it hard to see him through his niceness, and now, ten years after his death, he seems more enigmatic than ever. There he stands, at a little distance, jingling coins in his pocket, waiting for someone to need him: a satisfied man, with the sort of good humor and obliging manner I associate with an old-fashioned servant.
A smile is the hardest expression to fathom. He must have known that. In the period I am thinking of, around 1956, he lost his job. Never mind, he said, and found another one. Did he like it? “I’m tickled to death!” he said. He didn’t drink. He didn’t smoke. He never went out at night, except to church. Bowling and the movies he abandoned after becoming a father. He had few friends, no close ones, no confidants—he wasn’t the confiding type.
I was eleven. With two older brothers and a younger sister, I was invisible, in the lower middle of the pack, always a few steps behind, unnoticed. And my father was the insubstantial presence he wished to be, merely a man who lived in the house. Dramatic entrance, and then silence. Dramatic departure, and then silence again.
This all sounds harmonious, yet there was disorder and tension and conflict in our household. It bristled like the angular splinters in the woodwork; it pulsed in the air, a disturbance that was deep, subtle, and voiceless, the vibrant presence of low-pitched rivalries, masked by politeness, or sometimes by hostile displays of affection. The quiet household is often more turbulent than the household of the tyrant or the drunkard.
One of the unspoken conflicts in our house concerned the house itself. My mother’s version of the story—the blaming version, the one she wouldn’t let him live down—was that my father, having decided that we had to move (four kids in a tiny house and a fifth on the way), was appointed house-hunter. My mother was pregnant and busy, but she was also the sort of person who provoked others to make decisions, so that if they made the wrong ones she could say, “Well, whose fault is that?” She greeted a good choice with silence, a bad one with loud reproach. Deniability was a defense she mastered long before the word was coined.
Dad was like hired help: the house-hunter. Unused to spending large sums of money or to making big decisions on his own, he became more affable, more genial than I’d ever seen him. He did so out of sheer nervousness, a kind of helpless hilarity, like that of an almost ruined gambler at the blackjack table, risking everything on the turn of a card.
He saw three or four houses. They were all unsuitable, though he liked them. My mother was vexed. This was our dinner-table talk. (We children were discouraged from speaking at mealtime, so we listened.) “What’s good about it?” my mother would say. “It’ll be hard to heat,” or “It’s not on a bus line,” or “That’s a bad neighborhood.”
One winter night, she was in tears. Dad had seen a house that he liked. He had been told the price. In his anxiety, he had not bargained; he had not said, “My wife will have to see it,” or “We’ll think it over.” He had said, “We’ll take it!,” with a sudden flourish of cash that startled even the seller of the house, a cranky old woman in a soiled apron. At least, that was my mother’s version, and, in the oral tradition of our family, the only version that was allowed.
In a matter of an hour or so, my father had seen the house and agreed to buy it. Another detail to his discredit was that he had seen it only in the dark. It was January, and he worked until five-thirty; he had driven there after work, tramped through the snow, and looked it over, and by seven the deal was done.
The reason for my mother’s distress was that, in anticipation of finding the right house, Dad had been carrying five hundred dollars in small bills around with him. The papers he’d signed that night had specified a deposit of that very amount, nonrefundable. “Our whole life’s savings!” my mother cried, thumping the table. “How could you?”
Obviously, he’d liked the house; he hadn’t wanted to risk losing it; he wasn’t a bargainer; and he had been pressed for time, house-hunting after work. Now the situation was: buy the house and pay the rest of the money with a mortgage or lose the deposit. “Our life’s savings—wasted!”
“Life’s savings” was probably an exaggeration, but not by much; my father’s new job was menial, as a shoe salesman. He was grateful for the work, but a man selling shoes spends a great deal of time on his knees.
Dad suffered, smiling sheepishly through a number of scenes at the dinner table—and at other times, too. I heard bedroom recriminations, which were rare in our household. But, in a short time, the mortgage was granted, the house was bought, and we moved—a hugely disruptive event in a family that experienced few, almost no, events that involved a substantial outlay of money. It was the only time we moved in the course of my childhood, and what made it most memorable was the fact that my mother was briefly shocked into silence.
The house was large but odd-shaped—bony and tall and narrow, like a cereal box, with the narrow side to the street, the wide side a wall of windows. It seemed somehow unfinished, the kitchen not quite right, the doors either poorly fitting or missing, the varnished cabinets made of thin wood, the floors creaky and uneven. But it had four bedrooms. My brothers, Fred and Floyd, shared a room with bunk beds. “There’s room for the piano,” my father said, in a tone of hollow enthusiasm.
That winter, my father never stopped smiling. His smile said, All’s well. Mother banged the kitchen cabinets to demonstrate the loose hinges, the broken latches. She tugged at the front door, exaggerating the effort it took to open it. She told everyone that she was coming down with a cold because of the drafts. She sighed loudly—all the sounds and gestures of discontent.
Dad’s only response was to say, “I’ll see to that.”
He was imperturbable—not so chummy as to cause offense, but deferentially amiable: “How can I help?” The kind of submissiveness you’d see in the wan demeanor of a field hand or an old retainer.
Spring came. The roof began to leak; the drains erupted; the nailed-on storm windows proved hard to take down. Now that we were less confined by the weather, we could see that the house needed paint. Dad began to paint it, with a borrowed ladder and a gallon of yellow paint. A neighbor saw him and said in an outraged tone, “You’re not going to paint that house yellow!”
So Dad returned the yellow and bought some cans of gray.
“That’s better,” the neighbor said.
My mother pointed out that he’d dripped gray paint onto the white trim. He repainted the trim.
Mother said, “Now you’ve gone and dripped white paint on the shingles.”
Dad smiled and repainted, never quite getting it right.
Anticipating insects, he put up screens. The screens were flimsy and rusted; holes had been poked through them.
The stove was unreliable, and the fuel oil in the heater gurgled and leaked from the pump, which had to be replaced by a plumber, Dad’s fellow choir member Tony Martello. Tony worked for nothing, or for very little, groaning in wordless irritation as he toiled.
My father’s new job was a problem, too: long hours and low pay, while my mother was pregnant, home with small children. She was heavy and walked with a backward-leaning gait, supporting her belly with one hand, seeming to balance herself as she moved.
“I lost a child two years ago,” she said, as though threatening to lose this one, too.
Dad said, “It’s going to be fine.”
“How would you know?”
He smiled; he had no reply. As a sort of penance, he washed the dishes, calling out, “Who’s going to dry for me?,” and, because of the tension, each of us said, “I’ll do it!,” and pushed around trying to be helpful.
I said that my father had no recreations, but he had one—the choir, legitimate because it was church-related. His voice was confident and rather flat, with a gravelly distinction. “He prays twice who sings to the Lord” was printed on the hymnal. My father believed that. Choir practice was more than a form of devotion, an expression of piety; it was a spiritual duty. Dad always went alone, and he always came back happy. His happiness wasn’t audible in anything he said, but his mood was improved—you could tell by his movements, his breathing, the way he listened, with a different sort of smile, a relaxed posture.
April came.
“The house is full of flies.”
“I’ll take care of it.”
He patched the screens with little glued-on squares of screen.
“The faucet drips.”
“Say, I’ll pick up some washers on the way home from choir.”
“This is the second time I’ve mentioned it.”
Dad was putting on his hat, snapping the brim, looking jaunty.
“You never listen.”
In fact, all he did was listen, but a certain sort of nagging repetition can deafen you.
We didn’t realize then that we’d come to the end of a chapter, that we were starting a new one. After it was over, we knew Dad much better than we had before, and were more bewildered; we’d had a glimpse of what was beneath his smile.
The wickedest episodes of revelation can have the most innocent beginnings. This one began with a song. Looking back, it all seems even weirder and scarier than it did at the time; I remember it with reluctance, embarrassed and ashamed.
My father came home one afternoon carrying a large envelope. Trying to look casual, he got his fingers inside it and, with a self-conscious flourish, took out some pages of sheet music. The illustration on the cover showed a black man in a gleaming top hat, white gloves, mouth open in the act of singing. I could see from his features that he was a white man wearing makeup.
“Say”—Dad was ruffling the pages—“could you play this, Mother?”
Asking a favor always made him shy. Being asked a favor always made Mother ponderous and powerful. Oh, so now you want something, do you? she seemed to reply, with the upward tilt of her head and her triumphant smile.
She looked with a kind of distaste at the sheet music, holding it with unwilling fingers, as though it were unclean—and it was rather grubby, worn at the edges, torn at the crease where it folded. It had a limp, clothlike look, as though it had been propped on many music stands.
After a while, Mother took herself and her big belly to the piano. She spun the stool to the right height and, balancing herself on it, reached over her pregnancy as though across a counter. Frowning at the music, she banged out some notes. I could tell from her playing that she was angry. Dad leaned in with his bifocals.
Mandy, there’s a minister handy
And it sure would be dandy . . .
He gagged a little, cleared his throat, and began again, in the wrong key. He could not read music, but he could carry a tune if he heard it enough. In this first effort, he struggled to find the melody.
“You’re not listening,” Mother said.
“Just trying to—” he said, and clawed at the song sheet instead of finishing the sentence.
He started to sing again, but too fast, and Mother pounded the keys and tramped on the pedals, as though she were at the wheel of some sort of vehicle, a big wooden bus that she was driving down a steep hill with her feet and hands.
Mandy, there’s a minister handy . . .
Hearing the blundering repetitions of someone learning something from scratch was unbearable to me. Probably out of exasperation, I knew the song before they did. I was in a fury for it to be over. I left the room, but even two rooms away I heard:
So don’t you linger,
Here’s the ring for your finger.
Against my will I listened until the song was in my head, not as it was meant to be sung but in Dad’s halting rendition.
Later, over dinner, in reply to a question I didn’t hear, Dad said, “Fella gave it to me—loaned it. I’ll have to give it back afterward.”
“Who loaned it?”
“Joe Buffalino.”
“Why?”
“Tony Martello loaned it to him.”
“What’s it for?”
“Minstrel show.”
Mother made a face. As though to avoid further questions, Dad filled his mouth with food and went on eating, with the faraway, thoughtful look he assumed when he didn’t want to be questioned.
Then, out of the side of his mouth, he said, “Pass the mouse turd, sonny.”
We stared at him. He was chewing.
“Tell you a great meal,” he said. “Lettuce. Turnip. And pea.”
He winked. We had no idea what he was talking about.
The words “minstrel show,” he seemed to feel, explained everything—and perhaps they did, though not to me. Words I had never heard before had a significance for him, and a private satisfaction. Mouse turd ?
After that, he practiced “Mandy” every night, singing with more confidence and tunefulness, as Mother played and thumped her pedalling feet. Within a week, he grew hoarse, and from the next room it was as though another man were singing—not Dad but a growly stranger.
Around this time, Dad revealed his new name. This was at the dinner table, Mother at one end, Dad at the other, Fred, Floyd, Rose, and me in between.
“Fella says to me, ‘Wasn’t that song just beautiful? Didn’t it touch you, Mr. Bones?’ I says, ‘No, but the fella that sang it touched me, and he still owes me five bucks.’ ”
“Who’s Mr. Bones?” I asked.
“Yours truly.”
“No, it’s not,” Fred said.
“Only one thing in the world keeps you from being a barefaced liar,” he said to Fred.
We were shocked at his suddenness.
“Your mustache,” Dad said, and wagged his head and chuckled.
“I don’t have a mustache,” Fred said.
Mother got flustered when she heard anyone telling a joke. She said, “Don’t be stupid.”
“You think I’m stupid?” Dad said eagerly. “You should see my brother. He walks like this.” He got up from the table and bent over and hopped forward.
He did have a brother—that was the confusing part.
“You’re so pretty and you’re so intelligent,” he said, striking a pose with Mother, using that new snappy voice.
“I wish I could say the same for you,” she said.
Dad laughed, a kind of cackle, as though it were just what he’d wanted to hear. He said, “You could, if you told as big a lie as I just did.” He nudged me and added, “She was too ugly to have her face lifted. They lowered her body instead.”
With that, he skipped out of the room, his hands in the air, and I thought for a moment that Mother was going to cry.
He had become a different man, and it had happened quickly, just like that, calling himself Mr. Bones and teasing us, teasing Mother. She was confused and upset. Once he mastered the song, he kept humming it, and his jokes, not really jokes, were more like taunts.
“Maybe it’s his new job,” Fred said in the bedroom, after lights-out.
“It’s this house,” Floyd said. “Ma hates it. It’s Dad’s fault. He’s just being silly.”
“What’s a minstrel show?” I asked.
No one answered.
Mother, trying to be friendly, asked Dad about his job a few days later.
“They said I’d be a connoisseur, but I’m just a common sewer.”
There was that gesture with the hands—waggling his fingers.
“Said I’d be a pretty good physician, but I said, ‘I’m not good at fishin’.’ Or a doctor of some standing. I says, ‘No, I’m sitting—in the shoe department.’ ”
Mother said coldly, “We need new linoleum in the upstairs bathroom.”
“And you need new clothes, because your clothes are like the two French cities: Toulouse and Toulon.”
“Don’t be a jackass.”
“Mr. Jackass to you.”
“I wish Joe Buffalino hadn’t given you that music.”
“Lightning said I needed it. Tambo gave it to him. Play it for me again. I need a good physic.”
Mother began to clear the table.
“I love work,” Dad said. “I could watch it all day.”
Mother went to the sink and turned on the water. She kept her back to us, but I associated the water running into the dishpan with her tears.
Mr. Bones was at his friskiest in the evening. He had swagger and assurance, and if we tried to get his attention or asked him a question he began to sing “Mandy.” He had somehow learned two other songs as well: “Ma Blushin’ Rosie” and “Rock-a-Bye Your Baby with a Dixie Melody,” Lightning’s song and Tambo’s, so he said.
I was used to my father singing, but not these songs; used to his good humor, but there was anger in these jokes. And he, who never went out at night except to Benediction or choir practice, was now out most nights. He stopped asking Mother to play the piano for him; he would simply break into a song, drawling it out of the side of his mouth.
When you croon,
Croon a tune
From the heart of Dixie.
He didn’t look any different—he dressed the same, in a gray suit and a white shirt and a blue tie and the topcoat he disparaged as “too dressy.” One day, one of his sleeves was limp. He flapped it at Mother as though his arm were missing and said, “I know what you’re thinking—World War Two.” Then he shot the arm out of the sleeve and said, “Nope. Filene’s Basement. Bad fit!”
The variation that night—and for nights to come—was the tambourine he had acquired. When he made a joke or a quip, he shook it and rapped it on his knee and elbow and shook it again. Shika-shika-shika.
“R.S.V.P.,” he said, holding up a piece of mail. “Remember Send Vedding Present,” and he jingled the tambourine.
One day after school, I went to the store where he worked. Instead of walking in, I kept my head down and crept to the side window to get a glimpse of Dad. He was sitting in one of the chairs in the shoe department, his chin in his hand, looking not like Mr. Bones but sad and silent, like a man trying to remember something. The other clerks had gathered at the back of the store and were laughing, but not Dad. Were they ignoring him? He paid no attention. He was reading—unusual, a shoe clerk reading. I didn’t know this man, either.
I began to be glad that he was out most nights. At the house we’d moved from, he had spent every evening in his chair in the corner, dressed in flannel pajamas and a fuzzy bathrobe, reading the Globe. Now he sometimes didn’t even come home for supper, and if he did it was “Pass the mouse turd,” or, holding the pepper shaker, “This is how I feel, like pulverized pepper—fine!”
“The oil burner’s back on the fritz,” Mother said.
Any mention of a problem with the house these days made Dad smile his Mr. Bones smile and roll his eyes.
“Heard about the King of England? He’s got a royalburner.”
“We’ll have to get Tony to look at it.”
“Tambo is a busy man, yes, he is. Says to me, ‘What is the quickest way to the emergency ward?’ I says, ‘Tambo, just you stand in the middle of the road.’ ”
Mother did not react, except to say, “It’s giving off a funny smell.”
“Giving off a funny smell!” Dad said, and put one finger in the air—what I now recognized as a Mr. Bones gesture. He was about to say something and wanted attention. “Mr. Interlocutor, what is the difference between an elephant passing wind and a place where you might go for a drink?”
“I don’t think you understand,” Mother said, in a strained voice. “This house hasn’t been right since the day we moved in. First it was the roof, then the paint, then the plumbing. Now it’s the heat. We’re not going to have any hot water. Everything’s wrong.”
Dad thought a moment, then looked around the table and said, “Mr. Interlocutor, the difference between an elephant passing wind and the place where you might go for a drink is: one is a barroom and the other is a barroom! ” He said it so loud we jumped. He didn’t laugh. He drew his chair next to Mother and sang:
Rosie, you are my posey,
You are my heart’s bouquet.
Come out here in the moonlight,
There’s something, sweet love,
I wanna say.
Mother looked awkward and sad.
He snatched a bowl from the table. “Why is my thumb in your soup, Madam?” he asked. “To keep it warm, Madam.”
In a way, by clowning, Dad took her mind off the problems of the house. But she could not get his attention. And who was he, anyway?
He wouldn’t refer to Tony Martello as anything but Tambo, and Joe Buffalino was always Lightning. They had never been close friends before.
“Morrie Daigle said he’d help you fix the roof.”
“Mr. Interlocutor is too hot to do that. He is so hot he will only read fan mail.”
That was how we found out who Mr. Interlocutor was.
“Have you lost your wallet?” Dad said to Floyd.
“No,” Floyd said, and clapped his hand to his pocket.
“Good. Then give me the five dollars you owe me.”
Floyd made a face, looked helpless, thrashed a little. It was true that Dad had given him five dollars, but he had not brought it up before.
Dad said, “Hear about the Indian who had a red ant?”
I didn’t understand that one at all. I pictured an Indian with an insect. It made no sense.
There was something abrupt and deflecting in his humor. Whenever he made a joke, he seemed to expand, pushing the house and his job aside. Mother appeared to be afraid of him now. Before, she had always made a remark, or nagged, or blamed. These days, she just became very quiet and watched him.
Floyd was on the basketball team, Fred played hockey, so they were out most evenings—at practice, they said. I knew it was just an excuse to stay away from home and Mr. Bones. Rose was a little kid of seven, and she actually found him funny, and let him tickle her. But I had nowhere to go. Mr. Bones was a stranger to me, and for the first time, lying in bed at night, I began to think, Who are you? What do you want?
The light went on and I had the answer.
Most of the lights in our house were bare bulbs with no shades, hanging on frayed black cords from the ceiling—another source of Mother’s complaints—and the brightness of the one dangling in my bedroom only made things worse. Emerging from sleep, I was half-blinded. Yet I could see enough to be terrified.
A disfigured villain from a horror comic was bending over my bed—only after a few minutes did I realize that it was Dad—his whole face a sticky black, a white oval outline around his lips. He wore a wig like a big woolly hat, a red floppy bow tie, a yellow speckled vest, and a black coat, and he was emphatically gesturing with white-gloved hands. He was smiling under the blackness that shone on his face, and he leaned over me and seemed to shriek.
“Give us a kiss, sonny boy!”
Then he laughed and stood up and waved his gloved hands again and jerked the light chain, bringing down darkness.
His voice had matched his face. He was so black that I assumed he was still in my bedroom, standing there invisible in his floppy tie: Mr. Bones. I had not heard the door close.
I said into the menacing gloom, “Dad—are you there?”
No answer.
I said again, “Dad?,” and, in a trembly voice, “Mr. Bones?”
In the morning, the room was empty.
When I went down for breakfast, he was eating oatmeal as usual. He had a decorous way of holding his spoon. I looked closely at him and saw some streaks of black makeup caked in the creases of his neck. I sprinkled raisins on my oatmeal.
“Pass me the dead flies, sonny,” he said in his Mr. Bones voice.
By then, his remarks usually silenced the room. We all felt the effect of his angry humor. Floyd and Fred pretended to find it funny and occasionally they teased back. When Dad made his “Toulouse and Toulon” joke, Floyd said, “Well, you’re like a town in [REDACTED]—Marblehead.” Instead of being insulted, Dad smiled and said, “I like that.”
He began to come home every night in blackface. Hearing his jokes again and again, I at last understood the one about the Indian and the red ant—red auntwas the point of it, though we never pronounced the word that way.
We were afraid to ask him about his job these days. If Mother mentioned the house—the drips to be fixed, the oil burner to be mended, the linoleum to be laid—I didn’t hear it. In response to almost any question, he began singing.
A million baby kisses I’ll deliver,
If you will only sing that “Swanee River.”
The rhythm was there, a confident drawl, yet his voice was strained from overuse, gargly and cross, as though he were in pain. The weeks of rehearsals had taken away his real voice and given him this new one. He lifted his knees and did dance steps as he sang, and he raised his white gloves.
It seemed so wrong. I was always glancing at the door, embarrassed and scared that someone—a neighbor, the Fuller Brush man, Grandpa—might come in and see him swaying and singing, with that black face and that wig.
He had another song, too:
When life seems full of clouds and rain
And I am full of nothin’ but pain,
Who soothes my thumpin’ bumpin’
brain?
He would always pause after that, then bend over and stick out his head and say, “Nobody!”
When all day long things go amiss,
And I go home to find some bliss,
Who hands to me a glowin’ kiss?
Nobody!
The next time I sneaked up to the window of the store after school and looked in, I saw him sitting where he’d sat before, in the chairs reserved for customers, reading. He was not in blackface, yet his assurance, his posture, the way he sat, like the owner of the store, made him seem more than ever like Mr. Bones. He looked thoughtful, his fist against his mouth, a knuckle against his nose. The other clerks seemed to avoid him, talking among themselves.
Louie Buffalino said, “You going to the minstrel show?”
“I don’t know,” I said. “Are you?”
“My old man’s in it. So’s yours.”
“I don’t even know what it’s supposed to be.”
“It’s a pisser. Just a bunch of old guys singing, like a talent show,” Louie said.
This big event was just a talent show to Louie; and his white-haired father, who worked on the M.T.A. buses, was just an old guy singing. Yet in our house Mr. Bones had intimidated everyone. He was now someone to fear, saying the things that he normally avoided saying. In his minstrel-show costume, he could be as reckless as he wanted.
It was true that Fred told fibs and didn’t want to go to college; true that Floyd owed Dad money and hated trumpet lessons. And it was easy to see that Mother’s nagging was what caused him to tease her and change the subject. His jokes were more than jokes; they were ways of telling us the truth. The yellow mustard in big quart jars that we stocked was cheap and tasteless; “mouse turd” was a good name for it. The stale raisins that Mother bought cheap in the dented-package aisle were like dead flies. But it was so odd, hearing these things from his white-outlined mouth, to the accompaniment of his tambourine.
“Dad,” we said, pleading.
“Dad done gone. ‘That was prior to his decease, Mr. Bones.’ I says, ‘He had no niece.’ ”
Shika-shika-shika, went the tambourine.
He was happy, defiantly happy, powerfully happy, talking to us, teasing us in ways I’d never heard before. He had once been remote, with a kindly smile that made him hard to approach; now he was up close and laughing at us and he wouldn’t go away. It was as though he’d been turned inside out, and the true Dad was showing. Swanking in the role of a cartoon slave, he’d become a frightening master to us.
Something else I discovered one day, because I kept going to the store to spy on him, was that instead of sitting silently alone in the shoe department he now had company: Tony Martello, Joe Buffalino, Morrie Daigle, and two men I’d never seen before, all of them with their heads together, sitting in the customers’ chairs, whispering, as though they were cooking something up. So odd to see this in a store where everyone else was either working or shopping or being loudly busy.
That was his secret—mine, too. These men were like conspirators, with a single plan in their minds, and the sight of them impressed me, because Dad was clearly in charge. I could see it in his posture, as he sat upright, wagging his finger at them like a conductor with a baton, giving directions, issuing energetic commands. Mr. Bones was their leader.
That same night, he came home after dinner, in his blackface and floppy tie and wig, and said, “Listen to Mr. Bones.”
Fred was fiddling with the radio. Mother was at the sink with Floyd. I was looking at a comic book.
“I says, listen to Mr. Bones!”
He spoke so loud we jumped, and, as we did, he banged and clicked his tambourine. He was like a drunk you couldn’t talk back to, yet he hadn’t had a drink.
I ain’t never done nothin’ to nobody,
I ain’t never got nothin’ from nobody,
no time,
And until I get somethin’ from somebody
sometime,
I’ll never do nothin’ for nobody no time!
He searched our faces, shaking his head, and moaned, “Nobody, no time!”
Was it a song? Was it a poem? Was it a speech? It was too furious to be entertainment. Even though it was painful to hear, it was being spoken by a man who had our full attention. We had to listen; we couldn’t look away. That proved that he was the opposite of the poor soul he was describing—he was stronger than we were, though I recognized the “nobody” he spoke of: it wasn’t Mr. Bones; it was Dad.
After that, he went over to Fred and said, “What are you going to do for Mr. Bones?”
“College,” Fred said, blinking fiercely.
“Know the difference between a college professor and a railway conductor?”
“No.”
“No what?”
“No, Mr. Bones.”
“One trains minds and the other minds trains. Which one do you want to be?”
“College professor, Mr. Bones.”
Mr. Bones turned to Floyd. “What are you going to do for Mr. Bones?”
“Trumpet lessons, Mr. Bones.”
“You always were good at blowing your own trumpet. Ha!” Then he had me by the chin and was lifting it, as Dad had never done. “Who was that lady you saw me with last night?”
With his white-gloved hand gripping my chin, I couldn’t speak.
“That was no lady. That was my wife!”
Mother muttered as he shook his tambourine. “You’ll need some Karo syrup for that throat,” she said, and handed him a bottle and a spoon.
He took a swig straight from the bottle, then said to Fred, “Here, want to keep this bottle up your end?”
I didn’t know it was a joke until he lowered his shoulders and shook his tambourine.
I dreaded the show, which was just a week away, and when the day came I said, “I don’t want to go. I’ve got a wicked bad stomach ache.”
“Everyone’s going,” Mother said, with a kind of nervous insistence that I recognized: if I defied her, she might start screaming.
It was a wet Saturday night in May. We went together to the high-school auditorium in our old car, Mother driving. I could tell she was upset from the way she drove, riding the brake, stamping on the clutch the way she stamped on the piano pedals. Dad had gone separately. “Tambo’s stopping by for me,” he’d said.
I hurried into the auditorium, and slid down in my seat so that no one would see me. When the music began and the curtain went up, I covered my face and peered through my fingers.
Dad—Mr. Bones—and the other men were sitting onstage, their chairs in a semicircle. Mr. Bones looked confident and happy; he was dressed like a clown, in his shiny vest and big bow tie, but he looked powerful. All of them were in blackface, except Morrie Daigle, in the center, who wore a white suit and a white top hat.
“Mr. Bones, wasn’t that music just beautiful? Didn’t it touch you?” Morrie said.
I pressed my fingers to my ears, and closed my eyes and groaned, so that I wouldn’t hear the rest. I wanted to disappear. I was so slumped in my seat that my head wasn’t even showing, but although I kept my hands to my ears I heard familiar phrases—doctor of good standing and that was prior to his decease.
The songs I knew by heart penetrated me as I sat there trying to deafen myself. Mr. Bones sang “Mandy.” “Rosie,” “Rock-a-Bye Your Baby,” and “Nobody” were sung by others.
You should see my brother, he walks like this, I heard, and knew it was Mr. Bones. I heard barefaced liar. Even so, I kept my eyes shut, my palms against my ears.
There was much more, skits and songs. People laughing, people clapping, the loud music, the shouts. It was silly and embarrassing, yet the same jokes and songs had intimidated us at home, and Mr. Bones had been different at home, too, not this ridiculous man clowning, far away on the stage, but someone else, someone I didn’t want to think of as Dad, making fools of us and getting us to agree with him and make decisions. That was who he was—Dad as Mr. Bones.
At the end of the show, while the men were still taking bows onstage, I said, “I have to go to the bathroom,” and ran out and hid in the car.
Back home, afterward, no one said anything about the show. Dad was in his regular clothes, with the faint greasy streaks of black on his neck and behind his ears. He was excited, breathless, but he didn’t speak. The strange episode was over.
Later, I got anxious whenever he hummed “Mandy” or “Rosie” while shaving in the kitchen, but he didn’t make any more jokes; he didn’t tease or taunt us anymore. Watching him through the side window of the store, I saw him standing near the cash register, smiling at the front door, as though to welcome a customer.
The following year, there was talk of another minstrel show, but nothing happened. We had a TV set by then, and the news was of trouble in Little Rock, school integration, black children protected by National Guardsmen, and white crowds shouting abuse at the frightened students who were being liberated. Our bald-headed President made a speech on TV. Dad watched with us, saying nothing, perhaps thinking about how Mr. Bones had been liberated, too, or banished. It was not what Dad had expected. The expression on his face was vacant, stunned with sorrow, but before long he was smiling. 

