WASPS
By A. L. Kennedy
Their Da was going away again, that’s all it was. Both boys had said nothing about it, but were awake at five and thumping downstairs and straight out to the garden, Jimbo still wearing pajamas and Shawn in yesterday’s clothes, probably no underpants—some objection he had at the moment to them, as if they were practically nappies and grownups never wore them. The first fight began as soon as they left the house: she has a memory of dozing through whole cycles of shouts and squealing and that odd, flat roar Shawn has started to produce whenever he truly loses himself and just rages. No tantrums for Shawn, not anymore. He is seven now. He has the real thing. He has rage.
And the day had been out of kilter already, insistent. Orange-pink light was creeping forward and threatening by four; summer pushing everything earlier and earlier whether you wanted it to or not, and the bed too hot, and what might be called a real gale had been rising outside until her sleep was full of its pressure against the corner of the house, air leaning so hard at the window that she felt breathless and unsettled, searched by a hunger that needed, that pried.
The house had grown disturbed—doors pestering at their frames whenever the weather drew breath, clatters on the roof, something twisting, searching overhead, and meanwhile she dreamed a little of being underwater, swimming the length of an obstacle course, both a game and an obstacle course, in some kind of terrible amusement park. She was fully dressed, heavy, but doing her best to thread a way along flooded passages, over ramps, gasping up into sudden pockets of lovely air and then driving herself back down to find this or that opening into caves, or water-filled dining rooms, church halls, or a place like a fishmonger’s shop, except all the fish in it were still alive—tethered by hooks through the bodies and heads, fluttering by the white tiled walls and hanging in strings of blood, staring at her while she kicked and wallowed past.
All the time, she’d kept thinking, I shan’t bring the children here, it seems unsafe. There must surely be someone I could inform, a procedure to follow for complaints. What I need is a higher authority—then I’d ask them to have this set right.
The sense of it faded as she woke, but she had been left with a definite shame, the embarrassed anticipation that she might drown, be lost somewhere in the game when nobody else had a problem with it, because it was in fact so simple and undemanding, like a tunnel of love, or a ghost train; a stroll round the fun-house mirrors and then back home.
By the time she looked at the alarm, it was getting on for half past seven, and the boys were still noisy, loud against the weather. Which was how they dealt with it—the leaving—by giving each other reasons to cry and reasons to be angry. Their father was curled on his side, hands under his chin, and offering her that look—the one that always made her think he wasn’t sleeping, was only waiting until she had gone, or until something interesting happened, a surprise. Although as a couple they weren’t much prone to surprises. Predictable, was Ray.
She dressed in a T-shirt and jogging bottoms—as if she were someone who took exercise and cared about her health—and then she went to the windowsill so that she could check on the wasps. There always were wasps. Always dead—or else weak and sleepy, crawling off to a permanent halt behind the chest of drawers. Five today. All goners. As if the house drew them and then destroyed them. Ridiculously fragile wings, perfect stripes and tapered bodies, altogether finely worked—they were like very tiny toys. Of course, you quite naturally worried that somebody would step barefoot on top of one by mistake. The boys were not really at risk, though, because they were not allowed into Mummy and Daddy’s bedroom. None of that letting the kids cuddle in between their parents for the night—could ruin a marriage, nonsense like that. And the bed wasn’t big enough for four. Not even for three.
She cupped the wasps in her hand, the window frame shuddering beside her, as the storm sneaked in a draft to stir the dead wings, their stiffened weightlessness. She patted the glass, smiled, and left the room and let the corridor draw her along, then the stairs, another corridor, until she arrived in the kitchen, because she would forever and ever arrive in the kitchen—no will or effort necessary. There she would be in unironed clothes, nothing to show what was left of her shape: as scruffy as her children, an inadequate bloodline no doubt apparent in every fault the three of them displayed.
But there was no time for morbid reflection. She walked to the back door, opened it and called her sons; opened it and opened her palm, let a pounce of clean breeze take the wasps and make them gone.
And now.
Sunday today, so she made a proper breakfast: a nice hearty sendoff for Ray. He’d be gone before lunch, and who knew what he’d be eating while he was away.
Sausage, fried eggs, bacon, black pudding, toast andpotato scones, ketchup, peanut butter, marmalade—enough finally to lure the boys into the kitchen on smell alone. As she could have guessed, they were not speaking: Jimbo was tearful and Shawn brooding, each of them, she knew, on the verge of telling her how badly he’d been treated by the other and how wrong everything was.
She decided to get in first, to impose order. “Wash your hands, they’re horrible.”
“I can’t.” Jimbo displaying a pretty much unscathed hand. “Shawn hit my thumb with a stone and made it bleed.” She settled her fingers on his forehead, felt the race of the storm still caught there: its lightness and its cold.
“He hit me all morning. He always hits me. And you always let him.” Shawn washed his own hands very thoroughly, theatrically, with the air of a weary surgeon. As she watched, the weight of an older brother’s responsibilities and trials hardened his jaw enough for him to look very much like his father. “My foot is bleeding. But I never said.”
She offered him a plateful of everything, but failed to catch his eye, Shawn having developed a habit of speaking to the floor. “I never said anything.”
“Yes, well, you have said now.” It occurred to her that he’d be an appalling teen-ager. Quite possibly Ray had been, too. “He’s much smaller than you and you mustn’t hit him.” Maybe they had bad genes on both sides, then, her poor boys.
“See!” Jimbo crowed, grasping a piece of toast in his wounded, filthy hand.
“And you, little man, mustn’t annoy him until he hits you. Shawn is your brother and you have to take care of each other.”
“I hate him.”
“No, you don’t. Wash your hands. Now. Don’t put that toast back on the plate. We don’t want it. Come and sit down and join us, Shawn. Jimbo, you do go and wash. I mean it. And both of you behave. Da will be very upset if the last thing he sees of you is two dirty boys who can’t be at peace. Let’s have a good morning. Before your mother starts to scream and doesn’t stop and has to be taken away to the hospital for screaming people. Who would make your breakfasts then?”

Her sons showed no sign of having heard her, and she wondered again which of her threats they would remember, which would be useful and which would scar. It never was easy to tell, she supposed, if your parenting was mostly beneficial or bound to harm.
Ray. There was something in Ray that was almost dangerous. She had found him with Jimbo last night—the child with his hair curled and damp from the bath, clean pajamas, the face she strokes without thinking, cups with her palm while she stands behind him and he leans his shoulders back on her knees and she finds the tiny, narrow jolts of his vertebrae, rubs them up and down for luck, reassurance, delight. (She does the same with Shawn when he’ll let her, has no favorite. They are her two boys. Inescapable. Irreplaceable. Inescapable.) His father was sitting beside him on the bed, Jimbo snuffling, showing every sign of wanting to run up into a crying bout, a full-blown, wailing fit.
But Ray had stalled him. Caught him. “You wouldn’t want to have no food, would you? Or no house? And none of your things. Juggy the bear over there . . .”
“He’s not a bear.” Jimbo was using his smallest voice, the one to make you think he was still much younger.
“Well, Juggy, anyway—there would be no money to buy him if I didn’t go off and work. Your mother doesn’t earn any money, she just works here. So I give her money and she spends some of that on you and Ispend money on you and . . .” He’d smiled as if he’d just worked out something clever and now he could show it off. “Your brother and you are both very expensive.” Ray lifted Jimbo’s chin with his finger so that he could concentrate on the boy’s eyes: the soft, large target they made. “Would you want to be a homeless boy with nothing?”
Jimbo with no answer to this.
“Would you want to be cold and hungry?”
Again there was no possible reply.
And she wanted to feel that this kind of bullying might simply be what males did with each other—men with men, men with boys, boys amongst themselves. She aimed for the hope that it was natural, normal, a minor way of hardening the heart against later shocks.
“That’s why I go away, Jimbo. For you.”
Something in Jimbo, she could tell, decided then that his father left him because of his needing toys and wanting to play with Juggy. Jimbo’s hurt was gently becoming Jimbo’s fault while she watched, there it went, slipping, seeping in. Another year or so and he’d have noticed what Shawn has already figured out—that love and pain are names for the same thing. Give one, mean the other. Get one, want the other. Mean one, get the other back for it. Want one, want the other, want both.
“Don’t tell them that.” She’d had to mention it in the evening. Although she was all for a quiet life, it wasn’t right to fortify the heart by killing it. “I said don’t tell them that—don’t make it seem like their fault that you go away.”
“Well, it’s true.”
“Then particularly don’t say it to them.”
Ray looked out of the bedroom window, tilted his chin, opened his mouth just a touch, and tapped his fingernail against his bottom teeth. This meant he wouldn’t answer.
She changed direction. “What are you going to do about the wasps?” And that sounded like nagging, when she absolutely didn’t want to nag—this their last night, last night together before he’s off, the two of them making the memory he’ll take away. “I mean, they’re still coming in. It’s odd.”
“Mm.” He rubbed hard at his hair, made it stay lifted, disordered, so that when his hand fell he seemed younger, soft. He turned to her. “I’m sorry. What?” His expression was polite. Yes, that was the word for it: polite. “Wasps . . .”
“Yes.”
“Well, I did check. You saw me. I checked. And there wasn’t a nest, a colony, something like that. Not anywhere near. There was nothing.”
“I wondered where they come from, that’s all.”
“They’re getting in through a closed window—that’s what I don’t understand. All shut up tight, but still they get in at me. It shouldn’t be possible.”
“But it is.”
And this the point where it had happened again—still they get in at me—a safe conversation becoming unwieldy, changing its face. She’d tried not to consider if he thought this when he met the women, when he first saw in them whatever it was that he needed, wanted, and began the process, the arrangements, the exchanges found necessary. Did he look at them and decide, was there hesitation, wonderment—still they get in at me.
Ray had grinned at her, winked. “Never mind the wasps, though. Let’s say goodbye.”
“Goodbye.” It was his right to make this mean hardly anything or everything—goodbyegoodbyegoodbye—and her right to not know.

“You know what I mean.”
When she does not.
His grin wider. “You do know.” It touches her, cold on her forehead and in her hair, lifting up.
He’d extended his arms, very tender, happy, warm—the husband who wants to hug his wife and then take her to bed and croon damp words in her ear, small encouragements, as if she were an animal in need of guidance, liable to shy away at the more demanding drops and slopes and jumps. “Come on, love. It’ll all be O.K.”
And she did almost fall toward him—it undoubtedly felt like falling—his long arms wrapping round her, friendly.
“Hello.” Cheery, he’d sounded.
She hadn’t answered, not being especially cheery herself.
Now she waited for him in the kitchen as the boys hacked at their food and took too much ketchup because they could tell when she wasn’t paying enough attention to make them stop. In the garden, wind was clawing at the flowers, breaking things; the trees wild with it beyond the fence.
“All right, then.” Behind her, Ray was standing, very neat. She shifted her chair round and saw the business suit, which she’d expected, and the coat, which wasn’t entirely unanticipated. He was already wearing his coat. He never did like hanging around. Shawn understood the situation as quickly as she did, shoving his chair back and rushing to hug his father’s legs. Jimbo followed, but was more hesitant—as if he might have the power to carelessly make something worse.
“You’re not going yet.” Shawn muffled, his face pressed hard to the overcoat. “Too soon.”
She found herself having to ask, “Yes, couldn’t you eat something? With us?”
“Sorry.” He took hold of his children’s collars and began to tug them back and forth, play fighting, with easy strength in the thin forearms, wiry cunning. The boys squealed and he shook them more, going slightly too hard at it, the way that he usually did, until their faces were still pleased but their eyes were very mildly afraid.
Ray shrugged. “Slept in. You should have woken me. I’ll be racing all the way now.” He glanced down at Shawn and Jimbo. “Racing . . . yes, I will be.” His own eyes comfortable, ready to see other faces, other people.

She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “You should have let them be with you longer. You know how they’ll get once you’ve left. Actually, no, you don’t—you’re not here.”
She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “I do believe that you still love me and I would have thought that would be the most important thing, but in fact you no longer respect me and that is the worst, is the very worst. You love me but I do not matter.”
She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “This doesn’t work. You can’t keep telling me about the women, because this doesn’t work. You can’t say that I’m happy with your money and the house and that it’s easier for me this way and I get to stay with the children and everything is familiar and stable and fine and you’ll always come home and you’ll never stay, but you’ll always come home, but you’ll never stay, and I am here doing many, many things for which I do not respect myself. And you want impossible things and I can’t do them.”
She did say, “Well, if you have to go.” The rising cold against her arms.
He nodded, agreeing. “Come on, then.” He hustled the boys along with him up the passage and half turned so that he could see her face, reassure her. “I’ll call you.” She stood, followed.
The door lunged open against him when he unlocked it, banging Jimbo on the head so that he started crying, howling. The hall full of weather.
“No damage done, brave lad. Gotta go. Bye, now.” Ray kissed Shawn’s forehead and reached down for Jimbo, but the boy pulled away, ran to her and grabbed her T-shirt.
She had to fight her son’s weight to reach the door, set a hand on Shawn’s shoulder, accept the brief squeeze of her arm that her husband left her.
Ray stood clear of them all on the path for a moment and waved, then, spinning, leaned forward into the storm. It buffeted him, punched his tie against his face, slapped under his coat, and she watched him struggle and thought, This is how it should start: the timely intervention of some higher authority; the real force of everything; the rage. The coming rain should swing down like a blade while the storm takes him high and sets him right by shaking him apart.
She stood on the doorstep preparing herself. This was a way to be happy when he finally didn’t come back. 

