LUDA AND MILENA
By Lara Vapnyar

Milena had large blue eyes, an elegant nose, and olive skin covered with a graceful network of fine wrinkles. “Her face is a battlefield for anti-aging creams,” Luda said of Milena, adding that she wouldn’t want youth that came from bottles and jars. Once, Luda brought old photographs of herself to class to show Milena that she, too, had been a real beauty. The photographs revealed an attractive woman with a sturdy hourglass figure, imposing dense brows, and very dark eyes. Some people saw a striking resemblance to the young Elizabeth Taylor, but Milena didn’t. Milena said that the young Luda looked like Saddam Hussein with bigger hair and a thinner mustache.
The two women met on the first day of a free E.S.L. class held in one of the musty back rooms of [REDACTED] College. Luda was late. She had been babysitting her two grandchildren, and her son-in-law had failed to come home on time. Angry and flustered, Luda had had to run all the way to the college, pushing through the rush-hour subway crowd, cutting through the meat market on Nostrand Avenue, and having the following exchange with a large woman in a pink jacket:
Woman: “Watch it, asshole!”
Luda: “No, it is you asshole!”
By the time Luda opened the classroom door, the students had already started their introductions. “My wife and I love [REDACTED]. We want to show it our respect by learning to speak its language,” a short man with a shiny nose and shinier forehead was telling the class. A young woman across the room nodded enthusiastically as he spoke. Luda guessed that she was the teacher. “Angela Waters—Angie—endji” was written on the board. Luda headed for the only empty seat, against the wall, squeezing her large body between the flimsy chairs that sagged under the weight of the E.S.L. students. “I’m sorry. Excuse me,” she said when she brushed against somebody with the stretched-out flaps of her cardigan.
“I apologize,” she whispered to a thin, well-dressed older woman in the next seat as she sat down. “Don’t worry,” the woman whispered back in Russian. “Actually, I was afraid that some country bumpkin would sit next to me.”
Luda was about to answer with a sympathetic smile, but the smile died in midair. Had the woman just expressed relief or confirmation of her fears? She couldn’t possibly have taken her for a country bumpkin, could she? You old bitch! Luda thought, just in case.
“Ludmila Benina, Luda, seventy-two years old, been in the [REDACTED] for four years,” she introduced herself, in rough but confident English, when Angie pointed at her with her chin. “I came to this class to improve my grammar and communication skills. I am a widow, I have a daughter and two grandchildren. I used to be a professor of economics in [REDACTED]. I have written three college textbooks. One of my articles was translated into [REDACTED] and appeared in a magazine in 496e646961. I used to participate in conferences all over [REDACTED], and once in [REDACTED].” She threw a sideways glance at her seatmate, checking to see if she was impressed. If she was, her expression didn’t betray it.
“Milena from [REDACTED],” she said when her turn came. Nothing else. Luda felt stupid. She wished she hadn’t brought up the conferences. It would have been enough just to tell about her professorship and her books. She could have mentioned the conferences later, in future classes, in a casual way. Her unease lasted through the introductions of two elderly Russian couples, two elderly Chinese couples, three middle-aged Dominican couples, one handsome young Haitian man, one very tall, very old, and very loud Haitian woman with a funny name—Oolna—and one dark-skinned woman who spoke so fast and with such a heavy accent that nobody could understand what she said or where she came from.
Then a man sitting in the back stood up and cleared his throat. “Aron Skolnik, seventy-nine. I used to live in [REDACTED] with my wife. She died four years ago. Now I live in [REDACTED] alone.” Luda raised her eyes and peered at Aron. The expression on his face was strange, uncertain, as if he weren’t sure whether living alone was a bad or a good thing, as if he both welcomed the solitude and found it stifling. Luda had a sudden urge to reach over and touch the thin wisp of hair that stuck to his forehead.
Milena glanced at Aron, straightened her shoulders, removed her Versace sunglasses, shook out her hair, and positioned the glasses on top of her head.
Luda snorted and thought, Look at the old slut!
That night, as she lay in bed on her rock-hard mattress, Luda continued to think about Milena. There had been a moment, after Luda took off her cardigan and hung it over her chair, when Milena actually sniffed the air and moved farther away in her seat. It was true that Luda hadn’t bathed in a while, but this was not because she was lazy or disliked cleanliness; it was simply because she disliked being cold. After being submerged in a bath that was warmer than the air, she found getting out unbearable. Freezing. Freezing. Shivering. Groping for a towel. Shaking. For some reason, the cold always filled her with panic. If only there were a way not to freeze afterward, she wouldn’t mind taking a bath. Really. If, for example, there were somebody waiting for her with a large, thick towel held out in his arms. She had a fleeting image of Aron standing in her bathroom, wearing silly shorts. The image was both touching and ridiculous.
Luda groaned as she turned onto her side. “It’s a Sealy Posturepedic mattress, Mother, very expensive,” Luda’s daughter had said. She had given it to Luda after her husband had tried it and hated it. Luda’s apartment was almost entirely furnished by her daughter. There was a rickety kitchen table that Luda’s daughter had used when she first came to [REDACTED]. There was a flowery sofa that Luda’s daughter’s friends had found too tacky. There was a black bookcase that had appeared in Luda’s apartment after her daughter bought a set of light-brown shelves. Only one thing was Luda’s own acquisition—a leather armchair with scratched legs and a big slash across the back. Luda had found it next to a pile of garbage about six blocks from her home. She had called a taxi and paid the driver five dollars for delivery and another five for dragging the thing upstairs. By the time he got it to her apartment, Luda was feeling happy and generous, so she added two more dollars and half of an Entenmann’s apple pie. The armchair had been Luda’s prized possession ever since. She especially enjoyed the low groan it made when she sat down. This was the groan of somebody who was profoundly annoyed with Luda but still loved her very much.
Milena’s apartment was barely furnished at all. She slept on a narrow sofa that she had bought from her brother for sixty dollars. Her TV stood on the floor, and her VCR sat right on top of it, which caused the VCR to overheat, as Milena’s brother repeatedly pointed out. He’d sold her his VCR after buying a DVD player for himself, and he felt it was his duty to insure that the VCR was used correctly. Milena ignored his warnings, just as she ignored his offer to sell her a large chest of drawers. Her favorite pieces of furniture were her chairs. She had nine of them, all different, all bought at one garage sale or another, the prices ranging from eight dollars to fifty cents (that one didn’t have a seat). She used her chairs as stands for large photographs and posters, as shelves for vases, and sometimes as hangers for dresses, because the sight of good clothes never failed to cheer her up. One chair served as a nightstand. It was a wooden chair with a square seat, the perfect size and shape to hold a couple of books and the large shoebox where she kept her pills, some squeezed-out tubes of expensive anti-wrinkle cream, some smaller photographs, and a pencil sketch of the man who had been her lover for more than twenty years—which included several breakups, other lovers, his never-ending marriage to another woman, and her short-lived marriage to another man.
Milena opened the shoebox and started looking for her sleeping pills. She wondered if Luda really had been as famous and successful as she claimed. So many people lied. That old Haitian hag had claimed to own a chain of expensive boutiques. A chain! Or that pathetic little man who claimed that he used to be the most famous psychiatrist in Minsk—“You won’t believe the bribes they were willing to pay just to get an appointment with me.” But Milena didn’t really blame them for lying. In fact, when the teacher asked them to introduce themselves, Milena, too, had been tempted to lie. The other students’ introductions had made her whole life seem like a risible string of “none”s, ”never”s, “no”s, and “so-so”s. She didn’t have a husband. She didn’t have children. She’d graduated from a mediocre college. She’d worked at the same boring job for thirty years. Once, she had been offered a very promising position in [REDACTED], but she hadn’t been able to leave [REDACTED], because her lover was in [REDACTED], and, besides, [REDACTED] was known for being populated by pushy, conceited, obnoxious people. Just look at Luda, with her conferences in [REDACTED]!
Then Milena remembered that she had lied in class after all. Her documents stated that her first name was Ludmila. It was her lover who had started calling her Milena, claiming that her real name didn’t suit her. Luda and Mila, the usual diminutives of Ludmila, were too common for her, he’d said. Milena sounded just right. An exotic name, light, nimble, and unique. She had enjoyed that name. She had enjoyed being a small, elegant, irritating puzzle. Now she was too tired to enjoy it. Now she wished she could slump in somebody’s arms, and be easy and reachable, and be stroked on the head with tenderness and pity.
“The International Feast,” Angie wrote on the whiteboard the next day. “We’re going to start this Friday, and then we’ll have it every week.” She had a large blue marker stain on her cheek, but it didn’t prevent her from looking enthusiastic. “We’ll create a wonderful informal atmosphere, so that you can all improve your conversational skills and get acquainted with your diverse cultures. You don’t have to bring expensive or complicated dishes. Something simple, typical of your country.” Luda wrote it down: “Fri, feast. Bring Rus. food. Diversity. Culture. Simple.” She looked over Milena’s shoulder and saw that Milena had put a fat red star over Friday in her calendar. Of course, Luda thought. An International Feast, with its food, culture, and informal atmosphere, would be a perfect opportunity to get a man to notice you, and Milena knew this as well as Luda.
That Friday, the students pushed some of the desks against the wall to create an open space, and put their foil, plastic, and paper containers on the teacher’s desk, in the center. The diverse cultures were represented by fried plantains, duck gizzards, pastelitos, tostones, corn fritters, shrimp spring rolls, two kinds of Russian potato salad, a package of hard ring-shaped Russian pretzels, and an extra-value meal from McDonald’s, brought by the couple who wanted to show their respect for [REDACTED] by learning its language. “Our country is [REDACTED] now—we eat 556e6974656420537461746573n food,” the man explained with a proud expression. But Angie wouldn’t allow her students to eat yet. “Mingle, guys, mingle, you have to mingle first,” she kept saying. So they all crowded around the desk, sipping soda from plastic cups and trying to make conversation.
Luda studied the room, trying to think of a way to approach Aron. She was wearing a bright scarf, stolen the day before from her daughter’s drawer, and dark lipstick that she had found at the bottom of the same drawer. “Wipe it off, Grandma,” her six-year-old granddaughter had said. “You look stupid.” Now she was afraid that her granddaughter had been right. Luda couldn’t figure out how to mingle. The Chinese wouldn’t mingle with anybody but the Chinese, the Dominicans clearly preferred other Dominicans, and the two Russian couples stuck together, with the wives expressing visible displeasure whenever Luda tried to approach them. She had experienced this kind of displeasure before. Her very presence seemed to irk married women of her age, not because they saw her as a threat but, rather, because her widowhood and loneliness reminded them that they could end up like her. They looked at Luda with wary squeamishness, as if she were a mangy dog. Oolna was the only person who didn’t mind talking to Luda, but she was too old, and Luda didn’t want to appear old by association. As for Aron, he clearly preferred the company of Jean-Baptiste, the handsome young Haitian, perhaps finding kinship in the fact that they were the only two single guys in the class. “So tell me, Jean-Baptiste, do they try to fix you up?” Aron asked. “They try to fix me up a lot. But I don’t know, I don’t know. You know what they say: Marry a dancer when you’re in your twenties, a masseuse when you’re in your forties, and a nurse when you’re in your sixties. But what about me, my friend? I’m seventy-nine.” Luda sighed. There was no way she could break into this conversation.
Milena wasn’t mingling, either. She had flitted in like a summer breeze, put a package of square Russian biscuits on the table, and sat down on the edge of one of the desks, not looking at anybody, her legs crossed. Summer breeze with creaking joints, Luda thought, but she was worried. One passing glance from Milena told her that she did look stupid in her scarf and her lipstick. Luda knew that look very well. Mocking, condescending, pitying. She had seen it all too often on the faces of her husband’s countless secretaries, all attractive single women.
Milena smoothed the folds of her skirt and looked out the window. She thought she’d just sit and wait until Aron noticed her. “Impress and ignore” had been her strategy for years, but she wasn’t sure if it still worked. It had been a while since she’d had the ability to turn heads, and sometimes she thought that the saddest thing about this was that she couldn’t say exactly when it had gone. Men had looked at her, and now they didn’t. Something had been there, and now it wasn’t; it was as if a part of her had died and she hadn’t even noticed. Still, she couldn’t think of any other strategy. She knew that trying to approach other couples was pointless—married women of her age looked at her as if she were a disease. Their warning stares reminded her of the expression on the face of her lover’s wife in the photograph he kept on his desk. Every time Milena had seen it, she’d felt that the wife was staring directly at her. Luda looked a little like that wife. The same heavy features, the same stupid scarf. Respectable, boring, the very picture of righteousness.
Oh, really? Luda thought, having caught Milena’s stare. Respectable? Boring? For your information, I have had lovers, too. “Lovers” was stretching it a bit, but Luda had had one encounter, with a colleague, on the last night of the three-day conference in [REDACTED]. The man’s name was Stoyan. He was solid and dark, with jet-black hair spurting above his collarbone. He had offered to see her to her hotel, and on the way, as they discussed the problems of the advanced socialist economic system, Luda couldn’t help but marvel at the similarity of his name to the Russian word for erection. Later, in bed, he asked her to call out his name, but she wouldn’t—she was too bashful. I’m not as innocent as you think, Luda thought, defiantly fixing her scarf. Let’s just see, let’s just see.
But then Angie announced that it was time to eat, and the students ditched their conversation partners and rushed toward the food. Plastic tops were removed, foil peeled off, paper containers unclasped, and the room filled with a happy clatter, the air with culturally diverse aromas: curry, ginger, garlic, basil. The spring rolls were the first to go. One moment there was a whole plateful of them, and the next there was nothing but oily stains on the students’ fingers and a wonderful shrimp-and-scallion aftertaste in their mouths. The tostones and pastelitos followed. The Dominicans and the Russians were a little skeptical about duck gizzards but soon learned to appreciate them. Nobody was particularly enthusiastic about the two varieties of potato salad, so the two Russian couples who had brought them ate each other’s offering. The extra-value-meal couple ate their extra-value meal. By the end of the feast, there were only two items left: the hard round pretzels and the hard square biscuits. Angie ate one of each and politely pronounced them authentic and interesting, but nobody appeared to share her interest.
Both Luda and Milena realized that they had made a mistake. As soon as they saw how Aron’s face changed when the food was uncovered, they knew that they should have brought something more exciting. At first, his expression was hopeful but uncertain, as if he were a child who spied a longed-for toy but wasn’t sure if it was meant for him. As he filled his plate, the cautious grin disappeared into the deep furrows of a beaming smile. He chewed slowly, with his eyes closed, making sounds similar to the drone of a happy electric appliance. His cheeks became flushed and tiny beads of sweat gathered on the bridge of his nose. “Who made this? This is divine!” he would exclaim from time to time. He finished the last spring roll, crinkled his nose, and laughed. He looked radiant, he looked twenty years younger, he looked—Luda couldn’t think of the word right away, then it hit her—he looked inspired. You couldn’t help but smile, watching Aron eat. And so Luda smiled. And Milena smiled, too. Luda and Milena had, of course, heard that the way to a man’s heart was through his stomach, but they had never believed it. Aron Skolnik convinced them.
The problem was that neither Luda nor Milena liked to cook. Milena had a particularly tortured relationship with food. For years and years, her life had been structured around her lover’s visits. He’d come to her place after work, twice a week, and spend about an hour with her. “No, no,” he would say when she offered him food. “Let’s not waste time. Anyway, my wife is waiting for me with dinner.” Milena attempted to cook for herself at times, out of defiance. She’d mix the ingredients in a bowl, telling herself that she didn’t care, that she could cook and enjoy a good meal by herself. “I don’t care, I don’t care,” she would say as she scooped the contents of the bowl into the garbage pail.
And Luda—Luda had always been too busy working. Moreover, for most of her married life she had lived with her mother-in-law, who cooked a lot and enjoyed it, especially if she came up with a dish that Luda couldn’t stand. Once Luda figured this out, she learned to fake her culinary preferences. To confuse her mother-in-law, she would feign great enthusiasm for food that she hated (“Zucchini pancakes!”), asking for seconds, and appear indifferent to things that she really liked. She mastered the art of faking so well that by the time her mother-in-law died, and she could finally start eating according to her real preferences, she found that she no longer had preferences. Her sense of taste had been ruined; her interest in food was gone.
But that didn’t mean that she couldn’t learn how to cook, Luda thought, the Thursday before the second feast, while flipping through the TV channels at home. Learning how to cook was a challenge, and she was used to meeting challenges head on. The first three shows she watched on the Food Network were a complete waste of time. Luda couldn’t have cared less about the chili cook-off, nor did she need information on candymaking. On the third show, the host explained how to make tiramisu, which might have been helpful were it not for the host’s cleavage—so prominent that Luda couldn’t concentrate on the movements of her hands. The fourth show, however, was better. The host was making a Greek feta-and-spinach pie, and she seemed to know what she was doing. Plus, her cleavage, if she had any, was well hidden under her chef’s jacket. Luda opened a notebook and wrote down the instructions.
The pie worked! Luda herself was surprised at how well it came out. She’d had some doubts as she was spreading the filling over the dough. To make the pie seem authentically Russian, she had substituted cabbage for spinach and boiled eggs for feta cheese, and she had got rid of the pine nuts altogether. She’d had a moment’s worry about those stupid pine nuts—perhaps they were the key ingredient after all. But when Luda took the pie out of the oven—not as perfect as on TV, far from perfect, but warm and gleaming and fragrant—all her doubts disappeared. She closed her eyes and imagined Aron’s smile, and then—and this was the most delicious image—the stunned and furious expression on Milena’s face.
Aron actually moaned when he tried the first piece. When he finished a second piece, he took a napkin, wiped his lips, and looked at Luda. Looked at her and saw her. It had been such a long time since a man had seen her. “So good. I could eat it every day and not get tired of it,” he said. But even this didn’t give her as big a thrill as the lost expression on Milena’s face. Poor Milena, Luda thought. Poor Milena, who had worn a low-cut blouse and brought store-bought eggplant caviar and to whom Aron had said, “Did you buy it at the International on Fifth and Brighton? They make a much better one at the Taste of Europe in Bensonhurst.” Poor, poor Milena. I wonder what the fat pig will make today, Milena thought as she entered her bathroom the next Friday morning with a steaming mug of coffee and a pack of cigarettes, and a book tucked under her arm. She sat down on the toilet, put her coffee and the book on top of the laundry hamper, and lit a cigarette. People like Luda resembled battering rams—they pummelled and pummelled, patiently, without taking a break, for as long as it took them to get what they wanted. Milena’s lover’s wife had been the same way, and she had got her prize in the end. She had kept her husband, who had finally become a really good husband, now that he was too old, too worn out, too scared, and too beaten down to cheat. And Milena, stupid, proud Milena, who had always thought that it was beneath her to fight for a man, what did she have? Nothing. She had wound up with nothing. Just look at her now, old and alone, sitting on a toilet with a coffee mug and a cigarette! Well, she wouldn’t be above fighting for a man this time.
She took a sip of coffee and started leafing through her book, an old cookbook, with thin yellowed pages and elaborate drawings, a legacy from her allegedly aristocratic grandmother. There had been countless long mornings when Milena’s grandmother had sat little Milena—Ludmila then—at the kitchen table to teach her how to make pozharskie kotlety or rasstegai. Afterward, she had graded Milena’s work, usually poorly. How Milena had hated those mornings! But she had learned how to cook. Surprise, surprise, fat pig! 

“Look, guys, we have something new from one of our Russian students today,” Angie said, taking a blue cotton napkin off Milena’s porcelain plate. There, under the napkin, were more than a dozen perfect golden square cheese puffs that smelled as if they had been taken out of the oven a second ago. There was a secret to that, which Milena’s grandmother had shared with Milena as a gift on her sixteenth birthday. (Milena would have preferred earrings.) The puffs were so beautiful that the students couldn’t bring themselves to just grab them as they did the other food at the feast. They picked up the cheese puffs with two fingers and chewed slowly and didn’t talk while they chewed, so that all you could hear was the sound of small crunchy bites. When all the puffs were gone, Aron flicked a few golden crumbs off his shirt and asked Milena what her name was. “Beautiful and unusual,” he commented when she replied.
Luda didn’t know much about medicine, so she wasn’t sure if extreme frustration could cause an immediate heart attack. The worst thing was the look on Milena’s face when Luda unpeeled the foil from her offering. The bitch actually chuckled. Yes, Luda had brought another Greek-Russian cabbage pie. So what? It had worked the last time—what was so stupid about assuming that it would work again? Luda loosened her scarf and sat down. She tried telling herself that Milena’s offering wasn’t better than hers—it was simply new—but this thought failed to console her, as it had failed to console her over the years, every time she had sniffed yet another whiff of new perfume on her husband’s shirt.
A big heavy arm on her shoulder made Luda flinch. “I didn’t like her puffs,” Oolna said. “Showoff—not real food.” Luda wanted to bury her face in Oolna’s soft boundless chest and weep with gratitude. And then the wife from one of the Russian couples sidled over and whispered that she hadn’t liked the puffs, either. “Too salty, didn’t you think? And she is wearing way too much makeup for her age.”
In the weeks to come, Luda understood that she wasn’t just an annoying old woman anymore—she was the star of the show. The whole network of clumsy alliances was quickly spinning around her. There was Oolna, the oldest and truest of her fans. There was the Russian wife, and there was the Dominican couple who didn’t like feeling intimidated by Milena’s clothes and haughty demeanor. The husband even made a show of mocking Milena’s manner of entering the room, and all the members of Luda’s fan club laughed eagerly.
But Milena, too, found herself surrounded by allies. First, there was the Chinese woman who had nursed a grudge against Luda since the day Luda’s pie managed to outshine her spring rolls. And there was the second Chinese couple, who joined her camp simply because they always sided with the first Chinese couple. All of them had laughed happily when Milena compared Luda to Saddam Hussein. The husband of the second Chinese couple was deaf in one ear, so his wife had to retell the joke loudly and in Chinese, and then he laughed, too.
But while both camps acknowledged that there was a contest going on, and while everybody knew what the prize was, nobody ever mentioned Aron. If he knew about the contest, he never showed it. He seemed to be bent on preserving his independence and his right to favor the weekly winner. There were Fridays when Luda’s dish would come out too sloppy (either the fault of a Food Network host or of Luda’s zeal). And there were Fridays when Milena’s offering was just a bit too subtle or too bland. And since Aron’s romantic gestures always went strictly in synch with the competition, Luda’s and Milena’s gains and losses in intimacy fluctuated as well. There were Fridays when Aron seemed to have formed a special connection with Luda. He’d sit and talk with her in the corner (after the best food was gone, never before); he’d joke with her, ask her about her life, and make vague suggestions for the future, such as “Do you like Manhattan Beach? It’s nice down there. I go for a stroll sometimes. Not too often.” And sometimes he would walk her most of the way home. Once, Aron even kissed Luda on the cheek. His lips felt warm and dry and vaguely disappointing.
And then there were Fridays that belonged to Milena. Aron would walk with her, and brush his arm against her sleeve, or touch the flaps of her jacket. Once, he even attempted to play with her necklace. And sometimes he would share his memories. One time, for example, he told her about a lovely woman with whom he’d had a brief but passionate affair and who had looked just like Milena. “Seriously, the same eyes, the same cheekbones, even the same oval mole on her neck.” But, just as with Luda, Aron never walked Milena all the way home. He’d stop a few blocks away from her building, and say that walking was getting harder and harder for him and that he needed to head back.
No matter who won, come Monday all of Friday’s intimacy was gone. On Mondays, Aron never gave any sign that he had formed a connection with either of them, never spoke to them before or after class, hardly even looked at them. There was no indication that he wanted either of them, or that he ever would. On Mondays, Luda and Milena felt deflated and tired, too, and perhaps even a little ashamed of their Friday excitement. But as the week drew to an end, their fantasies about Aron grew more and more intense. And as their fantasies flourished so did their fear and fury at the thought that he might pick the other as the ultimate winner.
The afternoon before the last International Feast, Luda plugged in her food processor, pushed cubes of beef and lamb down the tube, and pressed the button. The food processor, a discard from her daughter’s pantry, was a bulky old thing with a crack on the side that was covered by a piece of duct tape. It whirred and vibrated and jumped all over the table, but it did its job well. Luda smiled as she watched the meat cubes crumble under the blades. The onion got stuck in the tube, and she had to push on it with a wooden spoon handle to get it down.
Milena moved about her kitchen quickly and gracefully. She prodded the bread in a bowl of milk with her finger to see if it was soggy enough. She knew that when you make meatballs you should never put the bread into a food processor. First of all, it was soft enough to be easily mashed with a fork, but, more important, coarsely mixed bread was essential to make the meatballs fluffy and plump. She put the bread into a bowl with the ground veal, added some crushed garlic (a lot of it) and a couple of eggs, and started working the mixture with a fork, enjoying the squelching sound.
And now for the secret ingredient, Luda thought, throwing some small cubes of pancetta into the hissing skillet. “Pancetta!” the Food Network host had moaned. “So good, your guests won’t know what hit them!”
Fat, Milena thought, all the flavor is in the fat, and people are just kidding themselves when they try to believe otherwise. She put a chunk of nice sweet butter and a smaller chunk of lard in the middle of the skillet and swirled them around. The rest was easy.
No, this wasn’t hard at all, Luda decided. Especially if you found the perfect method. She shaped the balls and threw them onto the skillet with her right hand, while holding the spatula with her left. When the meat got all warm and sticky in her fingers, she rinsed her right hand under cold running water and started again. Her small kitchen quickly filled with smoke and the smell of burning fat, but Luda didn’t pay any attention to that. She worked very fast.
So did Milena. It was amazing how soon the bowl was empty. As she was shaping the last meatball, Milena had a sudden urge to squeeze it. And she did just that, so hard that bits of soggy meat oozed between her fingers. She wiped her hand and went to open the window.
On the Monday after the last International Feast, Angie’s hands trembled so much that she had to grip the wrist of her right hand with her left in order to write on the board. Her legs were shaking as well, so she sat down in the low chair by her desk. She said that it would be nice if everybody could say a few words about Aron.
One of the Dominicans said that it was too bad that Aron hadn’t had a family. “That’s a wonderful observation,” Angie noted.
A man from one of the Chinese couples said that Aron had taught everybody a lesson.
“That’s an excellent point.” Angie nodded and reached into her purse for a tissue.
She had never had a student die during class before. Nobody she knew had ever had a student die during class. She had been plagued by ghastly flashbacks the whole weekend. Bright and loud, the images of the last feast had kept spinning and spinning in her head, as if she were caught in a horror movie. And now the movie was starting again.
She tunes the radio to some nasty Latino music. They uncover the food. The smell! She is so sick of that smell. The students stomp their feet to the beat of the music. Poor Aron, as happy as a child. Moving closer to the table. Filling his plate. Gorging. Starting to choke. They all step away in horror. Angie pushes buttons on her phone. For the life of her, she can’t remember which buttons to push. Jean-Baptiste rushes forward. Grabbing Aron from behind. His fist thrusts into Aron’s stomach. Thrusts again. Again and again. Finally! That fucking Russian meatball is out! Sighs of relief all over the room. Angie snaps her phone closed. And then Aron’s legs go slack and Jean-Baptiste starts to sway under his weight. For a moment, it looks as if they are dancing together to the loud beats of the music. Old Oolna starts to laugh, a horrible cackling laugh. And then, only then, do they realize what has happened.
Angie blew her nose and looked at her silent class. “Do you want to say something, Jean-Baptiste?”
“Yeah. Aron was a funny man.”
“Good, Jean-Baptiste, good,” Angie agreed.
Luda said that they would all miss Aron, and Milena said that his was an enviable death. Angie raised her eyebrows.
“Quick and easy. And he died happy, didn’t he?” Milena explained in a calm, patient voice.
Angie shuddered and dismissed the class. 

