THE MASERATI YEARS
By Maxim Biller
It was a very cold day. He hadn’t closed the balcony door overnight, and when he breathed out a small cloud of vapor rose from his mouth. He lay in bed with only his face outside the covers, making clouds of vapor. Another five, no, another ten of them, and he’d get up.
She hadn’t kissed him when she awoke at dawn. She had simply reached for him, and when he’d been lying on top of her she hadn’t given him any help, but it had been quite easy all the same. She hadn’t kissed him before she left, either, and he’d fallen back asleep straightaway and dreamed of a bottle of Corona as large as the water pump in Monbijouplatz.
Then he woke up again—it was afternoon—and he thought of the big bottle of Corona. He’d have liked a cigarette, but he didn’t have any left. He went to the bathroom, came back, turned his cell phone on, and put it down again. “Hi, Tom-Cat, I’m pregnant. Sorry to tell you this way. Going to my parents.”
Two other text messages had arrived, both from someone at the production company, who had also left messages on his voice mail, sounding angrier each time, asking where he was. There’d been a rehearsal at one o’clock, someone would be there until six.
“Hi, Tom-Cat, I’m pregnant. Sorry to tell you this way. Going to my parents.”
Oh, go to hell, he thought, breathing out another little cloud. No. 4.
The movie was about three friends meeting again after many years. One was now a singer, one was a doctor, and the third, the part he played, was nothing much. His character had never left home—he still lived with his family—and he wasn’t as handsome as he used to be, but you could see that he once had been. During the single night depicted in the film everything would change for all of them. “The Lost Night.” Not a bad title, if a little too American.
He still had the cooking sherry his mother had bought the last time she visited, and maybe there was a bottle of wine somewhere. A cigarette would be better. He imagined the smoke filling his lungs, slowly making him dizzy, but then the smoke would have to leave them again, although he’d prefer not to breathe it out at all. Little cloud No. 5.
I’ll have to sell the car, he suddenly thought. He was surprised to find himself thinking that, but it was exactly what he thought. I’ll have to sell the car. I can’t afford it anymore if I have to pay up every month. Not this car, anyway. Step on the gas too hard and something goes off, bang, and the guy from Brunnenstrasse has to come and tow it away, and then you have to take taxis until he’s got hold of a new engine, and an engine like that costs a bundle. So there go the Maserati years, he thought, and for a moment he felt sad. Then he felt furious, and then he closed his eyes and went to sleep.
When he woke up, it was getting dark again. Not entirely dark yet, but pretty dark. It was gray, blue-gray outside—the kind of light you get only at the end of November, the beginning of December, at around three or half past in the afternoon, when [REDACTED] might as well be in [REDACTED].
Three or half past—right. He got up, went to the bathroom, and on the way back he looked in the big kitchen drawer to see if there were any cigarettes there. He didn’t find any, so he picked up the sherry bottle, but then he put it down again. He felt for a moment the way he used to as a child, walking around the apartment on a Sunday while everyone else was still asleep. Since no one wanted to play with him, he would go back to bed, and the sheets were as perfectly cool as they felt now.
They had never discussed it. He hadn’t asked any questions, and she hadn’t said anything. He’d thought, If she doesn’t say anything, then there’s nothing to discuss, nothing can happen. It was that way with other women. If there’d been anything to discuss, she would surely have said something, he’d thought, and now he was thinking that of course that had been stupid of him. She would have said something only if she didn’t want any problems. So either there was nothing to discuss or she did want problems.
When he first met her, in the Casolare, he’d thought, This is going nowhere, and if it does go somewhere then it won’t be for long. He had looked out at the canal and ordered successive glasses of wine for her, thinking the same thing the whole time. Presumably, she had been thinking something quite different. She had black hair, blue eyes, and a look that could bring you to tears. He’d thought, That’s how it is when they’re a little older. They aren’t ashamed of anything in bed, though, and you don’t have to feel ashamed of anything with them, either. 

His phone rang, and he jumped up at once. When he saw that it was someone from the production company, he let it ring. It stopped, and then a text came in from the wardrobe supervisor, but he deleted it without reading it and went back to bed. Then he got up again and closed the balcony door. He put some music on, lay down, and listened to Al Green, and thought of how he’d never listen to Al Green in his beautiful car anymore. It was still rather cold in the room. He’d pulled the quilt right up to his chin, and the cold air was like the wind that blew in his face in the Maserati. He drove up Leipziger Strasse to Potsdamer Platz and continued on west. He listened to “La-La for You,” and the white winter sun danced between the buildings ahead of him.
The Biturbo really was a beautiful car. Its engine had a pleasant, stern sound, it sat five people, and it was as angular as a chocolate box. And now all that was over, because she hadn’t told him he had to take precautions. They’d done it ten or perhaps twelve times, even when she’d had her period. They’d been good together—he’d enjoyed himself and so had she—and now he’d have to get rid of his beautiful car.
He breathed out through his mouth, but nothing happened. He tried again, but the room wasn’t cold enough anymore. He could feel the warmth of the radiator behind the bed. You could almost touch that warmth, and when he thought of the cold weather outside he didn’t want to go out at all.
They wouldn’t be shooting without him anyway. They couldn’t shoot without him! Niklas had written the part specially for him—his character in the film was a little like his real self. Niklas had often said so, and he hadn’t always liked that, but mostly it was O.K. Now he was glad, because they really couldn’t do without him, even in rehearsal. Anyway, at the moment everyone wanted to make films featuring him.
Or, no, of course they could manage without him. And who in fact did still want to make films featuring him? Exactly—people who hadn’t worked with him before. He was always offered the same kind of part, but that was his own doing—he could say no. The directors he’d started out with worked with other people now, just throwing him the occasional bone out of charity. A small part in the film, large letters in the opening credits: “Guest appearance by our old friend Feri, and, no, we don’t know why we’re doing this, either.”
Shit, I want to make more little clouds, he thought. He got up, opened the balcony door, and crawled back into bed. It was dark in the room, but he didn’t switch a light on. It wasn’t gray or blue-gray outside the window anymore; it was almost black. From outside, a little of the ugly orange East [REDACTED] street lighting filtered in, and the objects in the room seemed to quiver slightly. His breath turned immediately to vapor outside his mouth, and he felt as if the air in his lungs were lost forever.
No. 7, he thought. Then he made the other three and closed his eyes. He fell asleep, woke up ten minutes later, and went into the kitchen. He drank his mother’s sherry, went to the bathroom, lay back down, and dropped off to sleep again. He slept half the night, and then there was a text message.
“Hi, had a fright? Just wanted to see how cold you really are. Don’t ever call me again. Meow.”
He switched off his phone, went into the bathroom, and showered. He took a very long, very hot shower, and he kept thinking: Go to hell. Then he lay down and tried to sleep, and it worked better than he’d expected. 

