SHAUNTRELLE
By Antonya Nelson

It isn’t just a husband you divorce but a life. A credit rating. Certain friends—sadly, some of them small children. A mother-in-law, that innocent bystander. And sometimes it seemed to Constance that she had divorced her own pronoun, I, and run away with another, she. She, she sometimes thought, of herself, and always in the present tense. As in Has she disconnected from her past so completely?
She hadn’t, however, divorced her city. [REDACTED] was still hers, although this part of it was new to her. Along with the novelty of the South Loop, she’d acquired a roommate, this after many years of the known quantity: husband, daughter. Dogs. She guessed she’d divorced them, too.
At the front desk of the Laventura, a disdainful blond woman provided her with a handful of devices for entry into her new life: apartment and mailbox keys, garage-gate remote, car tag, a code for accessing inner sanctums bearing keypads. Up the dizzying garage ramp Constance drove, around and around, seeking out her stall. On one side of it a racing bike was locked to a fire hose; on the other sat a vintage Mercedes with soft tires, mint green. One of these vehicles belonged to her new roommate, Fanny Mann. The voice on the phone and the affect over e-mail suggested the Mercedes: Fanny had used “y’all”; her cell-phone area code was from [REDACTED].
The apartment door had a lighted doorbell and a peephole, and was situated in a long hallway of such doors. The only distinguishing characteristic was the welcome mat. Some doorways had one; some did not. Fanny Mann’s was bright red, not a speck of dirt on it.
“Hi there!” The voice sang out before the face appeared. This was perhaps to offset the effect of the startling bandages that covered some of it. “Don’t be frightened! Come on in! I’m your roomie—you’re at the right place! You didn’t know you were moving in with the Invisible Woman, did you?” The roommate wore lipstick under the antiseptic white strips; her eyes were outlined in kohl, hazel-colored, vaguely bloodshot. “Rhinoplasty,” she explained. “In case you were thinking battered wife.” Certain other details caught Constance’s attention—the manicure, the studded belt, the short denim skirt.
“How smart is it,” Fanny Mann was saying as they jockeyed into the too-cool apartment, “to move in with someone you wouldn’t recognize on the street?”
Was she drunk? No. This, Constance would learn, was her way—she worked hard to make people laugh. Or at least smile, if only at her effort. It was Fanny Mann’s most appealing characteristic; she was a flirt, down to the makeup and heels.
The apartment smelled overwhelmingly of perfume, a familiar scent that happened to have been the favorite of Constance’s late mother: Shalimar. The Art Deco bottle flashed in Constance’s mind. Under the perfume, the odor of hospital, fresh paint, and air-conditioning, and the faint cigarette smell of someone who took her habit out to the balcony. The furniture was brand-new, tags still hanging from a few objects, and the art inoffensive—abstract landscapes, vases. The dining-room table was set for two: placemats, plates, polyester napkins blooming from industrial-strength wineglasses. “I should probably put those away,” Fanny Mann said. “But they amuse me. When I moved in, last week, all the lights were on and the stereo was blaring classical. I kept expecting somebody in a cummerbund to show up with dinner! I put the plastic plants out on the balcony, to spruce it up a bit, and, let me tell you, they’re flourishing!”
She was older than Constance had guessed, younger than her mother would have been, yet older than her stepmother. Sixty-two? The body would reveal your secrets, given a chance. It was in the leathery arch of Fanny’s foot in its spike heel, the automatic lift of the chin so as to photograph well, the second-nature way she had with the unlit cigarette she held, as if she had been born with a wandlike object in her hand. Her accent was lazier than Constance’s, swampier, homier. She was only a temporary tenant in [REDACTED], here for a forced vacation while her flooded house was under repair. She was taking advantage of the exodus to have her nose sculpted, her face lifted, her skin lasered and peeled, her fat vacuumed, her tummy tucked, her breasts bolstered, her neck tightened, her teeth veneered, and the spare skin around her eyes snipped away. Her goal, she told Constance, was to more closely resemble the personal ad she’d posted on the Internet. She was limping, she explained, because of liposuction, moving tenderly and somewhat unsteadily on stilettos. In [REDACTED], she was a chiropractor.
“I sure wish I could show you a ‘before’ picture,” she said regretfully. “So that you could fully appreciate what’s going to come ‘after.’ ”
She never knows what to say to sudden intimacies from strangers. Fanny Mann’s revelations, and the expectant pause that followed, seemed coercive, as if Constance now owed the woman her own confession. But it was not Constance’s habit to make herself available to other people; strangers mistook her for cold. To get to know her, to grow fond of her, you had to spend a long time hanging around. Her marriage to William had lasted twenty-one years; their daughter was now eighteen and in college. The two dogs were also relatively old, brothers, a decade in Constance’s care. The boyfriend was her most recent kinship, a love affair of five years. Those beings had been her intimates, and now every one of them had found sudden, utter, devastating fault with her. Wouldn’t that send anybody to the third person?
But Fanny Mann didn’t seem to mind Constance’s reticence; she may not even have noticed it. “I gab enough for two or three fools,” she said cheerfully. “I get along great with the quiet type. My husbands were all still-waters sort of guys.”
They had located each other through a corporate-housing Web site, one in need of a room, the other in need of a roommate. Fanny Mann’s best friend from grade school—she was of the age and region and disposition to have had the same best friend for more than fifty years—who had originally promised to share the apartment and undergo similar improving procedures, had backed out at the last minute.
“Cancer,” Fanny Mann said, with no less vibrancy. “Stage four, in her lungs.”
“That’s awful.” These, apart from the initial mumbled pleasantries, were Constance’s first words to Fanny Mann.
“It truly is.” Her eyes, bruised yellow above the bandages, briefly filled with tears. Her mascara was waterproof, perfect. “Bless her heart,” she added, covering her own chest with her hand. “Your room,” she went on, continuing the tour. The carpet was plush and caught at Fanny’s heels. “Your bath, your walk-in closet, your towels and sheets and butt-ugly bedspread. You ever lived in so-called corporate housing before?” The corporate-housing company they had used, which owned and rented out a few apartments in the Laventura, advertised that one needed only to show up—the rest awaited: appliances and their services, lamps and throw rugs and trash cans and kitchen gadgets. Sample-size containers of face and bath and dish and laundry soap.
 
“Don’t answer the land line is my advice. Some gal named Felicia had this number before—all the calls ask for Felicia, and they leave messages on our machine, too, all P.O.ed, because Felicia is up to her eyeballs in debt. No wonder she got rid of the number. The thing is, the answering machine isn’t Felicia’s, or mine, either. The answering machine is Ray.” She poked the little unit to make it produce its former owner’s deep voice. “You’ve reached Ray,” he said enticingly. “And you know what I need.” Then a chuckle, followed by the beep.
“Can’t hurt, can it? A man answering our phone? I like his sexy voice, too. I wonder where he went, anyway.”
As if on cue, Fanny Mann’s cell phone buzzed on her hip. She squinted at the screen before declining to engage the line. “And we can get the Internet sometimes, not all the time, and always in a different room. Yesterday the kitchen, but only by the sink; today, who knows?” This accounted for the laptop blinking on the chopping block.
The last stop on the tour was the balcony, from which you could see the Astrodome to the west, the hospitals to the north. Directly below, six floors down, people waiting for a bus. Constance could hear them talking, exclamations and murmurs and the occasional clear profanity. Scattered around the Laventura sat empty businesses, their doors padlocked, vines crawling over them, as if to reclaim them for nature, while on the street loitered a fleet of people pushing grocery carts. This detritus, man-made, earth-grown, was a kind of moat surrounding the building proper, this modern fortress, painted a yellow that was surely labelled Tuscan.
“Laventura, Laventura!” Fanny Mann sang, finally lighting her cigarette, mindful of the flame so near her bandages. “I think it means ‘little wine bottles’ in Italian.”
“I did notice some broken glass around the front door,” Constance said.
“Yeah, very corporate, huh? The neighborhood’s gentrifying, but somebody forgot to tell the winos. See there? That fizzling blue light on the corner? That’s our local grocery. I call it the No Judgment Store. Everybody buying beer and condoms and lottery tickets and tubs of lard. Whack rags.” Fanny smiled, wincing a bit, either from the smoke or the sutures. “I’m usually the only white woman in the place. The bag boy thinks I’m fine. ‘You fine!’ Don’t you love that? Nobody bats an eye, you pick up a carton of smokes and a pack of pork rinds at nine in the a.m. On a Sunday, no less.”
Constance returned her smile, relieved, relaxing suddenly, as if she had finished a challenging physical chore or swilled a stiff drink. Here was a woman with scruples less developed than her own, someone who had chosen to be not frightened but entertained by her new neighborhood, someone who soldiered on with her elective surgery even when her best friend got a diagnosis of cancer. Lung cancer—and Fanny Mann sucking on a cigarette. Constance felt lighter, as if Fanny had spirited away a sack of stones she’d been lugging around. “Maybe I’ll bum a smoke,” she said shyly.
“There you go!” Fanny Mann crowed, expertly tapping the pack so that one jumped out. “There’s a carton in the freezer—you just help yourself.”
Constance unpacked her clothing that first night in her strange chilly room, brushed her teeth, plumped the pillows on her new bed, set the alarm. Then what? Her ex-husband would be sleeping on what had for twenty-one years been her side of the bed; he’d always coveted it. Her boyfriend would be fiddling at his computer, the only source of light in his shabby duplex, likely stoned, busy in the virtual world where he was most comfortable. Constance held those images in her mind, staring through them at the wall, still able to smell the vanilla sweetness of Shalimar, which made her picture her mother, too, preparing for an evening out, back when her parents were the adults, and death and stepmothers were things that she had only read about in the Brothers Grimm. She hardly recognizes herself in the mirror.
Now she tucked herself in and opened her book, a novel assigned, in a fashion, by her daughter. “There’s this book I really liked,” Lily had reluctantly offered when Constance asked how the semester was going. Lily was a secretive, serious girl, even more so now that her mother had been discovered to have her own serious secret. Constance wasn’t making good progress on the recommended book, however. Every night she tried to enter its world—the streets of [REDACTED], a city she had never actually visited. On those streets, two gay girls, runaways, were making their living as prostitutes. One, Jo, was a heroin addict. The other, Deezy, merely drank. They loved each other but had sex with men—graphic, angry sex—and sometimes weren’t even paid for the service. When they reconvened, after their separate desperate nights, they wanted only to abuse their respective substances and fall into a chaste embrace. The fact that her daughter had enjoyed this book alarmed Constance, interfered with her ability to simply read. Instead, she took it in as if she were in Lily’s presence—self-conscious and with a heightened attention. It was the way she’d felt when Lily was younger and they’d watched inappropriate movies together, averting their eyes as the clothes were peeled off, as the ravishing sex ensued.
The book gave Constance nightmares. Although her dreamscape had nothing to do with the novel’s landscape, the book seemed to operate as a kind of portal. Through it she entered another world, which was neither [REDACTED] nor [REDACTED]. It seemed to be a city on a hill, with unsteady buildings teetering up its sides, a body of water lapping at its base. There, a boy whom she’d loved as a teen-ager often appeared: Corey Forster. Like the girls in Lily’s novel, Corey had had bad habits, and also bad luck; the combination had killed him in a car crash when he was only nineteen. He’d driven off an unfinished highway overpass one night, heedless of the orange cones and flashing lights. He’d been drunk and high, and probably thrilled at the sudden absence of traffic, the secret shortcut home from a party where Constance had remained. In her dreams, Corey Forster was always on the verge of taking her hand, of leading her down a hallway, into a room where she could have him back.
Why, then, did she think of these dreams as nightmares? Because they were difficult to leave, and that was somehow worse: being happy in a made-up place in the company of a ghost. The experience seemed insane. Constance was tormented by it.
In the morning, she found her new roommate at the dining table, its elaborate setting enhanced by a plate of plump muffins. These were delivered daily, downstairs, Fanny Mann informed Constance. She was kind of a welcome sight, jolly and bathed, done up like a tropical bird in a vivid silk wrap. “These are blueberry and chocolate,” she said. “Some days we get croissants, some days zucchini loaf. Oh, not now,” she added, frowning down at her cell phone vibrating on the table. “Poor [REDACTED]. A better friend might have cancelled her face-lift, esprit de corps and all. But, really, what could I do for her? To quote my daddy, I have no medical expertise and, furthermore, I’m not getting any younger.” She let the phone burr and buzz its way closer to the plate of muffins. “They got crappy reception over there at the cancer ward, anyway. Everyone else in my life left me but [REDACTED]—first my son, then my daughter, next that maroon I married, and after that the other maroons, but never [REDACTED]. Still, I’ve been waiting a long time to pimp this ride. She said to go ahead, the sight would cheer her up. She’s over there losing weight without even trying, bless her heart.” Finally, the phone ceased.
 
“You are not wearing those shoes!” Fanny Mann said, in horror, when Constance was ready to leave for work. “What size are you?”
“Eight and a half?”
Fanny Mann tottered off to her room, returning with a pair of open-toed red heels for Constance. “It’s the least I could do for that poor black suit. You aren’t going to a funeral, are you?”
“No. Work.”
“Someday, when I can bend over again, I’ll give you a pedicure. We’ll have a day of beauty. Where do you work? I forget.”
Constance mentioned the acronym for the energy office; everyone in [REDACTED] was in awe, but Fanny Mann looked nonplussed. She’d never heard of it, which made Constance smile. Her job was sometimes a trial to her; she’d got her position there because her father was a senior V.P. In the early days, her co-workers had called her the Princess, and so her reputation had been set: a pampered dilettante who didn’t deserve her status. If they’d known the truth, they would have understood the miracle of her having been hired at all: Constance’s stepmother, also a senior V.P., did not like her.
Rather than take the belt loop to the office, she detoured on surface streets through her old neighborhood, just to catch a glimpse of the house. William had removed the leaded stained-glass windows she’d hung in their bathroom, she noticed, finally getting his way; she had shopped for months for those pretty panes, but he claimed that they weren’t opaque enough, that strangers could see him step from the shower. At her daughter’s bedroom window was a sponge head of Yao Ming, faded and stiff from the sunlight. Lily and William had gone to games together, coming home hoarse from cheering; now Lily was a freshman at Barnard. She had left home last fall, at which point Constance had understood that she was free: her daughter would most likely never live at home again, and therefore Constance did not have to remain there, waiting.
The two dogs lay on the front porch, lifting their muzzles at the sight of the familiar car, some brief motion from each tail, but neither bothering to leave his spot. William would already be at his law office, downtown.
The boyfriend was Kendall Kirkendoll; she avoided driving past his duplex, as he might be there. He had moved nearby last year so that they could see each other more often. She could walk those slathering dogs right to his alley door and into his home.
Constance had left William in order to claim Kendall. For five years, she had believed that their secret life was building toward something, that they were preparing for a future, one that was presentable and public, substantial, painfully garnered but somehow worth the damage. However, it turned out that Kendall hadn’t been inhabiting that scenario with her. The day she told her husband about her affair, the day she released the tethers that held the safety net of her marriage, the day she showed up at Kendall’s door planning to stay not a feverish hour but the rest of her life—well, Kendall panicked. Before her eyes he transformed. Or, rather, he failed to transform. He had wanted nothing to change. He liked his autonomy, his bachelor life, his occasional trysts with Constance. Faced with his alarm, she felt herself shrivel, suddenly aware of how little she had traded her marriage for. This dirty rented space, its frightened occupant. She feels as if she’d got loose of her spaceship and were floating in space.
Losing William to divorce felt to Constance exactly like losing her mother to death: she’d grown to resent the cloying, unconditional love, her own role as a spoiled child in its nonjudgmental vapor, and then, as soon as it was gone, she immediately wished to have it restored, around her like a force field.
Kendall Kirkendoll was younger than Constance, but only occasionally had his youth worried her. Once, he’d made a comment about Lily, about her prettiness; he was of an age, his mid-thirties, that had sexual rights on either side of it—to both mother’s and daughter’s generation. Had his comment about Lily been the beginning of the end? The daughter no longer a child, Constance no longer the object of the male glance?
Banished by William, she had insisted on staying with Kendall, lying in the bed she’d made. With her she took one of the dogs, Bruno, who came along gamely enough. But once he realized that this wasn’t merely a walk, that he wasn’t simply being given preferential treatment this evening (his brother, Bob, left at home, brooding in a corner), Bruno sidled up to the back door and sat there whisking his tail on the floor, whimpering, nosing the handle. Constance was furious beyond reason at his unflagging unhappiness. She finally dragged him the three blocks back to her old home, yanked open the front gate, and kicked him into the yard. He ran with glee, so glad to be rid of her, back where he belonged.
She’d stayed at Kendall’s only slightly longer than Bruno, exhausted, in the end, by his reluctance to have her as his guest. Then she’d spent a night at her office, another few with her father and stepmother, then a month at a downtown hotel. She feels like a fickle princess in a fairy tale, trying out all the options—this door, that bed—and detecting flaws in each. And now she had landed here at the Laventura, with Fanny Mann.
Fanny Mann’s face was unwrapped for exactly one day before she returned to the clinic for her next procedure. “I love Dr. Fondel’s office,” she said. “It’s perfect, like a cross between a spa and a hospital. Everyone’s real professional, all sanitary in their lab coats, but nobody’s dying.” Constance, accustomed to the bandages, was fascinated by Fanny’s exposed features. Her nose, petite and perfect, was very white, as if it had come from some other person’s face. When Fanny sneezed, it bled. “Don’t look, don’t look! I’m a work-in-progress!” Her cheeks and forehead were blurred beneath a thick application of Vaseline, only her eyes and mouth familiar. She warned Constance not to grow too attached to them, as she was having improvements made in both areas. She packed a set of soft chintz bags and waved with her fingertips at the door.
That night, alone in the apartment for the first time, Constance hid in her room. She could have tuned in to one of the nighttime dramas that Fanny Mann had taught her to enjoy, but without Fanny there to provide backstory the shows seemed nearly indistinguishable from the commercials that interrupted them. This was why Constance had sought out a roommate—she had discovered during her time at the hotel that she did not like to be alone. When she couldn’t fall asleep—despite three chapters of Lily’s novel—she ransacked Fanny Mann’s medicine cabinet and took an OxyContin, letting its loopy undertow suck her down at last.
A few hours later, she could hardly rouse herself when a persistent sound broke into her sleep—the doorbell, she eventually determined, never having heard it before. For a moment she simply sat on the edge of the bed, gathering together the strange place, the unfamiliar sound, and the drugged fog in which she was trying to operate. Finally, she remembered the peephole, and this allowed her to open her bedroom door and creep to the front of the apartment.
 
Leaning on the other side of the peephole was an exasperated-looking young black woman. She’d been poking at the doorbell, but now she slapped her palm on the door, just below Constance’s blurred eye. “I know you in there, Shauntrelle!”
Constance would not unlock or open up, but she put her face to the slit between the frame and the door and said, croakily, since she hadn’t spoken in hours, “I’m not who you think I am.”
The woman abruptly ceased. “Shauntrelle?”
“No.”
The woman stepped back, then suddenly disappeared from the fish-eyed confines of the peephole. But Constance could hear the faint ring of another doorbell, down the hall, which set off a barking dog.
Now completely awake, she lay in bed, agitated, wondering whether she should risk another pill. The woman’s determination to find Shauntrelle had made Constance aware of her own desire to be found, to be sought after. Kendall Kirkendoll had always complained that it was he who had the most at stake, in loving her; never mind her husband and daughter—he, he’d said, had nobody to fall back on, no Plan B. He would not hear her when she reminded him that he also had no one to injure, no one to fail. Yet, for all his declarations, it had seemed easy for him to let her go. Kendall Kirkendoll wasn’t breaking down her door, calling her name. And neither was her husband, who’d taken the news of her betrayal quietly, the infliction she made on him one of shock. Complete shock.
When Fanny Mann returned, her chest was bound, her lips swollen, and her eyes hidden behind sunglasses. The Vaseline had given her a terrible case of acne, and she hadn’t tended to her hair, which was so thin and tortured that her scalp showed. “Don’t look at me!” she insisted, dropping her bags on the living-room floor and scurrying into her room. Later, after hours of restorative efforts, she joined Constance on the balcony.
Constance had stopped by the No Judgment Store for cigarettes and cocktail-hour food: processed cheese and crackers, gherkins, olives, meat that did not require refrigeration. You took a risk, exiting the building on foot, walking in this neighborhood; men had catcalled, leered; everyone had asked her for spare change. But once she stepped back through the doors of the Laventura—mildly sweaty from apprehension, humidity—she was surrounded by chilled air, by the soft rock that played in the elevators and in the gym, in the cybercafé and the corporate meeting suite, even out by the pool and the hot tub, the soundtrack of safety. The contrast with the outside world was so extreme as to cause disorientation, dizziness. 

She made Fanny Mann a vodka gimlet—weak, in consideration of the painkillers—and told her about the nighttime visit from the woman seeking Shauntrelle.
Fanny laughed delightedly, adding it to the names she had already begun calling Constance: Felicia, as in “Felicia, Columbia House is gonna garnishee your wages!,” or Ray (“I got bad news about that rubber, Ray”), and now Shauntrelle. These were the identities that occupied their apartment with them.
“Lord knows nobody’s sniffing around here for me,” Fanny Mann pointed out.
“Me, neither,” Constance said, sighing.
“One thing about the Laventura is: who’d think to look for us here, even if they were looking?” Fanny said. She and Constance weren’t members of the Laventura’s typical demographic, and there was nothing “corporate” about the long-term residents. Next door to the east lived a night watchman who arrived at dawn to fall asleep; his newspaper lay on his threshold all day, then disappeared in the evening. Across the hall was an Indian medical student, married to another Indian medical student, the parents of a small baby who was handed off between shifts. Directly below Fanny and Constance lived somebody who took flash photographs from his or her balcony, the bright quiet blast of light below them every now and then like a spill of phosphorescence, fairy dust, at their feet.
“It’s true,” Constance agreed. “This is not a likely place for me to be.” How, then, to explain her lingering hope that she would be rescued from it? Kendall Kirkendoll, if he put his mind to it, could locate her; surely William, with all his connections, could pull it off. The dedicated suitor could find a way. No matter the locked doors and security cameras or the smooth, unscalable surface of the building itself—a determined man could storm the castle. Gestures could be made. They both knew where she worked, of course, and could find her there. In expectation of this, she kept an eye out for them: William in one of his gray suits, with his polished bald head, sitting in his Audi. Or Kendall’s shaggy blond hair and vintage button-down shirts with old-fashioned patterns, checks or paisleys or chevrons. He didn’t drive a car, so he would have to ride his bike; her glance eagerly chased any bicycle that flew by. He worked at the public-radio station, and she listened to his jazz program, even though he never spoke during it, except to mention call letters and megahertz. He’d been the d.j. at William’s office Christmas party five years ago. His gig had ended at midnight, and Constance had offered him a ride, him and his equipment, when his friend with the van hadn’t shown up. It had felt good to separate herself from the group of lawyers and their spouses. She’d observed Kendall’s amused scorn toward them all evening, could read it in his eyes as he sat behind his elaborate table of machinery, spinning disks, poking buttons, insulated in headphones.
But why should she expect him to put effort into finding her now, when there hadn’t been much, on his part, ever? As for William, he was proud. She had forsaken him foolishly; her father had been appalled and impatient, her daughter hurt and embarrassed. Her stepmother had seemed unsurprised; she’d taken a barely concealed pleasure in the news. At any rate, none of them had inquired about Constance’s corporeal location; apparently, having her cell number and e-mail address sufficed. In her dreams, ghostly Corey Forster visited and lured, but it didn’t matter to him where she lived. To them all, she is ethereal.
For Fanny Mann the anonymity was temporary. She would occupy it only long enough to emerge like the phoenix, a brand-new version of herself. She consulted frequently with her hand mirror, another fixture on the dining-room table, alongside the pristine place settings. In it she gazed at her face, touching here and there, her expression critical. She applied this same critical glance to Constance’s face, then prescribed Botox and wax, nothing more.
“Maybe we should try Sunday brunch,” she said now, feet crossed on the railing, one shoe rocking like a pendulum held by the fulcrum of her big toe. “That’s how you meet people. And we could go to Yappy Hour, out there in the courtyard, running round in circles, sniffing behinds with the rest of the mutts.”
Under their balcony a bus stopped, brakes wheezing, its doors slapped open, then shut, engine roaring and sending up a plume of noxious smoke as it rumbled away. The people who had got off stepped, somewhat dazed, into the street, looking around as if unsure what was supposed to happen next.
 
“Wouldn’t they have a cow if I dropped a shoe on their head?” Fanny Mann said.
The next time Fanny Mann left for the night, it was to go to her friend [REDACTED]’s bedside at M. D. Anderson. “How do I look?” she asked before leaving. She had dressed for the visit, generously spritzed herself with Shalimar, and done her best to cover the fresh bruises around her newly widened eyes. She carried a red silk hankie, because her nose still bled now and then.
“You look great,” Constance said, wondering if Fanny had always seemed like a person built of incongruous parts, her calves too fine for her feet, her neck too brief, her chest too broad. Had surgery created the freakish appearance, or softened a more extreme original? She called her surgeons magicians, but Constance had no idea how to gauge that assessment.
“Maybe I’ll meet a doctor,” Fanny said. “Well, of course you’ll meet a doctor, Fanny fool,” she scolded herself. “Maybe I’ll meet a man. If I do, I’ll see if he has a friend, for you.”
“O.K.,” Constance agreed, but without enthusiasm. She knew how rare it was for her to fall in love. It had happened only three times in her life, less than once a decade. Corey Forster. William. And Kendall Kirkendoll. Dead, disappointed, and disappointing, respectively.
Once again, in her roommate’s absence Constance felt irrationally vulnerable, aware of every sound. On the street below, screeching brakes, then horns and curses, slamming car doors; in the apartment next door, the dog barked, the night watchman yelled at the animal to shut the fuck up. The elevator bell kept pinging, children from another floor playing pranks. And then, hours later, when Constance had finally fallen asleep, the phone woke her. She listened as Ray’s chuckling, sexy voice took the call, which was not for Felicia but, surprisingly, for someone named Gerald. “Buzz me in, Gerald!” shouted the caller. He was on a street; Constance could hear traffic, wind, the man’s breathing, and a clicking as he pressed an intercom button. “Dude,” he pleaded, “it’s starting to rain!”
Constance went to the balcony, opened the door, and stepped out, stuck her hand into the air over the edge. No moisture. Liar. Or maybe he was standing outside a building in some other part of town, some other town, even. Who knew how he’d managed to find Constance, mute audience to his manic anguish? “Motherfucker, let me in! Let me in, or call a motherfucking cab!”
Constance picked up the phone then. “You have the wrong number,” she told the man who was looking for Gerald.
On his end there was a long pause. “Do what?”
“This isn’t Gerald’s house. I don’t think this is even Gerald’s neighborhood.”
“Am I speaking with Gabrielle?”
Now Constance paused; another person she wasn’t. “No,” she said, on the verge of giving her own name. She hadn’t said it for a while, to anyone. “This is Felicia.”
“Well, hell, Felicia, can’t you open this door? It’s raining like a motherfucker. Hear that thunder?” From his end came a rumble, hissing, and squeaks. They sounded more like cheap acoustical imitations than like a real storm.
“You aren’t anywhere near where I am,” Constance said. She was sitting now on the balcony, out in the balmy night. Not a drop of rain; in fact, she could make out a few stars, an odd occurrence in the [REDACTED] firmament.
“Bitch,” he muttered before hanging up. Constance tried not to feel stung.
Once more alert in the lonesome night, she took herself around the apartment, seeking an Internet connection, resorting to e-mail. This was how she met up with Lily, who sent messages only in reply to her mother’s, not even bothering to adjust the subject line. Constance tried not to burden her daughter with too many e-mails; it would take time to repair the damage she’d done to the girl, however vicarious, or what you might, in the current climate, call collateral.
More than anything, what Constance wished was that she would open her computer and it would sparkle like a treasure chest, perched here on the windowsill of the living room. The screen would be radiant, flooding the dark apartment, and a hundred messages would await her. She longed for every single space to be filled with Kendall Kirkendoll, his repeating name scrolling down her in-box, “kendallkirkendoll” vibrating in nearly three-dimensional intensity, as if she might prick her finger if she touched the screen.
But there was nothing new, not even spam.
“Where can we go, to show off my new rack?” Fanny Mann asked. Her contractor had been putting the final touches on her home in [REDACTED]; her aestheticians had done the same to her body, here in [REDACTED]. Their time together, hers and Constance’s, was nearing its close. “My daughter thinks I’m vain,” Fanny Mann had confided. “She thinks all the money I’ve spent on cosmetic surgery should have gone to Oxfam. Her brother joined the Army when he was eighteen. You wouldn’t believe the scene I made when he came home in camo and a buzz cut. How’d I produce kids like that—a career soldier and a bleeding-heart hippie? They aren’t even on speaking terms. And,” she added, shuddering, “my daughter hasn’t shaved her legs in twenty years.”
Constance was tempted to reply that the truly remarkable thing was Fanny Mann’s own capacity to keep caring—about anything, whether it was the size of her breasts or the state of the Union. Instead, she named an expensive restaurant, and—what luck!—they managed to score a reservation that very evening. In the middle of the main course—braised lamb, new potatoes—Fanny missed the burring of her cell phone, the call to notify her of [REDACTED]’s death. It had happened that afternoon, but only now, in the early evening, had the hospital located her number, the person playing the role of next of kin. And only later still, in the quiet car retrieved from valet parking and en route back to the Laventura, Constance carefully blinking away her own drunkenness at the wheel, did the equally tipsy Fanny Mann squint at her flashing little screen, recover the message, and then phone the hospital to receive the news.
“Now she’ll never see how it all turned out!” Fanny cried, meaning all these enhancements and rejuvenating procedures. She’d enjoyed dolling herself up for her début at Carlo’s Fine Dining, appearing there with décolletage and beckoning eyes, bruises kindly undetectable by candlelight—once more the object of that coveted male gaze—but the real audience for the metamorphosis had been [REDACTED], best friend and record keeper. Who else would so profoundly know how to care?
“I’m so sorry,” Constance said. She can never offer a comforting hug automatically. She is a stilted, stunted person.
“Oh, sugar, it’s terrible!” Fanny answered, slumped in the passenger seat. They’d reached Constance’s parking spot after the nauseating circling of the garage floors, and now neither opened her door. “I should have been there!” Fanny cried.
Constance waited, weighing the two deaths that had mattered to her: her mother’s and Corey Forster’s. She was glad that her mother hadn’t lived to see what had become of her marriage, or, for that matter, what had become of her father, when he chose his next mate. Neither of those were destinies her mother would have approved of; her living would have prevented them. In the more distant past, Corey Forster had offered Constance a ride home the night he died, but she hadn’t been done with the party—it hadn’t yet ceased being an evening of enchantment and possibility. Had he driven her, his route would have been different, and he’d never have flown off that bridge to nowhere. “You were a good friend,” she chose to say to Fanny Mann. “You are a good friend.”
 
“I am a selfish person,” Fanny said, wiping her cheeks, smearing her lipstick. “Selfish and ugly. Ugly ugly ugly, that’s what my daughter would say. And she’d be right.”
“No,” Constance said. “No, she wouldn’t; you’re not. I’m sure your daughter loves you. You’re very kind.”
Fanny Mann yanked open the door then, igniting the dome light. “You don’t know shit about me, Shauntrelle, but I do appreciate you trying to cheer me up.” Then she clacked across the garage, amazingly able, given the grief and alcohol and stilettos and still healing surgery.
Constance sat behind the wheel for another few minutes, allowing Fanny time to enter their apartment, sequester herself in the privacy of her own room, and occupy her own solitary remorse. She closed her eyes to test her inebriation, now that she was safely out of traffic. She always thought of Corey Forster when she drove drunk. Now she recalled a more recent fatal evening, another party. Had she not felt the hour proper to flee that party she would never have fallen in love with Kendall Kirkendoll. She couldn’t have known that falling for him would mean never being able to reclaim an unfallen state.
Constance’s time in the care of corporate housing would hang like a discrete interlude in her life. It wasn’t best measured by days or months; even the rent was prorated, down to the hour. It was a season of uncertain and drifting identity, of upheaval and limbo, of anxiety and laughter, of transience and transients, situated in the Laventura itself, and, more precisely, on the sixth floor of that establishment, in a two-bedroom apartment, with two roommates at a strange crossroads. Here, they were protected from the riffraff, the neighborhood, even from Mother Nature, in the form of floods or biting insects. The city of [REDACTED] floated and bobbed, sinkholes opening now and then to claim a piece of terra firma, and over this blighted terrain presided Fanny Mann and Constance, of different generations and stations, crises and wishes.
Constance finished Lily’s novel a few nights before her chosen departure day. She packed the book, since it was hers, and the instructions from corporate-housing headquarters were firm about removing all personal belongings—God forbid that Constance should risk her and Fanny’s security deposit—but she would have preferred to forget that book. Deezy, the novel’s drunk, had had to mourn Jo, the heroin addict, who wasn’t dead but might as well have been. All along there’d been a growing rift between the girls, one of them more interested in her high than in her beloved, the other grieving over her lost love, over her powerlessness when faced with the other’s stubborn self-destruction. Constance wanted to reach in and turn Jo around, convince her of the correct course, crash her body against Deezy’s the way one manipulated dolls, making them hug, settling them into bed together in their dollhouse so that they could live happily ever after.
Had this exquisite frustration moved Lily? Constance was desperate to know if her daughter felt like one of those fictional creatures—Deezy, lover of the living ghost, or Jo, the afflicted ghost herself—but it wasn’t a question that she was brave enough to ask. She was tempted to contact William, seek his opinion. But she already knew what he would say. He would default to the obvious: Lily’s liking the book merely meant that she was a lesbian. And he would be satisfied with that, both the obvious conclusion and the fact of his daughter’s sexuality.
“You promise to visit?” Fanny Mann demanded on moving day. “I won’t leave till you swear.” She was set to drive away in her classic mint-colored and mint-condition Mercedes, having rallied from [REDACTED]’s demise. She looked good in her new body, her bright outfit, her coiffed, honey-blond hair, ready for the road trip to her refreshed home in [REDACTED]. “You visit and I’ll introduce you to my future sugar daddy’s unmarried son. I have the whole fantasy all worked out!”
“O.K.,” Constance agreed. They embraced—gently, since Fanny Mann was still on the mend. Fanny smelled, as always, of Constance’s mother’s too-strong perfume, an antique odor of romance, bravado, faith. Constance would still be able to smell it later on, as she drove down the winding ramp for the last time, pulling away from the closing electric gate and the saluting security guard, onto the gritty ground floor and out into traffic, en route to . . . Where is she, anyway, and where does she think she’s going? 

