1966
By Denis Johnson

Bill [REDACTED]’s [REDACTED] shore leave commenced with the forenoon watch, too early for a man with money to spend: on top of everything, the Navy wished to deny him any night life. He took a shuttle bus from the naval station, across the open fields of the Air Force base, then through town to Waikiki Beach, and wandered dejected among the big hotels, sat on the sand in his Levi’s and wild 556e6974656420537461746573an shirt and very clean shoes—white bucks with red rubber soles—ate grilled pork on a wooden skewer at a kiosk, took a city bus to Richards Street, booked a bed at the Armed Services Y.M.C.A., and started drinking in the waterfront bars at one in the afternoon.
He tried an air-conditioned place favored by young officers, where he sat at a table by himself smoking Lucky Strikes and drinking Lucky Lager. It made him feel lucky. When he’d collected enough change, he called home to the mainland, chatted with his younger brother James.
That just made him more depressed. His brother James was stupid. His brother James was going to end up in the military, too.
He strolled the waterfront with the beer thudding inside his head, a lonely feeling pulling at his heart. By 3 p.m., the pavement of [REDACTED] had baked so hot it sucked at his rubber shoe soles as he walked.
He hid inside the Big Surf Club, trading beers with two men slightly older than he was, one of them a man named Kinney, who’d recently joined the crew on [REDACTED]’s ship—the U.S.N.S. Bonners Ferry, a T2 tanker manned mostly by civilians, of whom Kinney was one. But he hadn’t just waltzed on board for a tropical cruise. He’d spent time in the Navy, had lived on ship after ship, and had no real home ashore. This afternoon, Kinney had attached himself to a barefoot beach bum who seemed hopped up on something. The bum bought the table two pitchers in a row and eventually revealed that he’d served in the Third Marines in [REDACTED] before landing back home on an early discharge. “Yeah, baby,” the bum said. “I got the medical.”
“Why?”
“Why? Because I’m mentally disabled.”
“You seem all right.”
“You seem all right if you buy us a beer,” Kinney said.
“No problem. I’m on disability. Two forty-two a month. I can drink a serious amount of Hamm’s, man, if I sleep on the beach like a moke and eat what the mokes eat.”
“What do the mokes eat? Who are the mokes?”
“Around here you got the mokes and the howlies. We are the howlies. The mokes are the native fuckers. What do they eat? They eat cheap. Then, there’s a whole lot of Japs and Chinks, you probably noticed. They’re in the gook category. You know why gook food stinks so bad? Because they fry it up with rat turds and roaches and whatever else gets in with the rice. They don’t care. You ask them what the fuck stinks around here and they don’t even know what you’re talking about. Yeah, I’ve seen some things,” the bum went on. “Over there, the gooks wear these funny straw hats, you probably seen them—they’re pointy? Girls riding on a bicycle, you grab their hat when you go by and you just about yank their head off because they’re tied with a string. Yank her right off the bike, man, and she goes fucked up in the mud. I saw one this one time where she was all bent like this, man. Her neck was snapped. She was dead.”
Bill [REDACTED] was completely confused. “What? Where?”
“Where? In South [REDACTED], man, in Bien Hoa. Right in the middle of town, practically.”
“That’s fucked up, man.”
“Yeah? And it’s fucked up when one of them honeys tosses a grenade in your lap because you let her get up beside you on the road, man. They know the rules. They know they should keep their distance. The ones who don’t keep their distance, they probably have a grenade.”
[REDACTED] and Kinney kept quiet. They had nothing comparable to talk about. The guy drank his beer. A moment almost like sleep came over them. Still nobody had spoken, but the bum said, as if answering something, “That ain’t nothing. I’ve seen some things.”
“Well, let’s see some beer,” Kinney said. “Ain’t it your round?”
The bum didn’t seem to remember who’d bought what. He kept the pitchers coming.
James [REDACTED] came home from the last day of his third year in high school. Got off the bus raising his middle finger at the driver and whooping.
His mother had caught a ride out to work and left the truck in the driveway, as he’d asked her to. His little brother, Burris, stood in the driveway with a finger in one of his ears, peering down the barrel of a cap pistol while he pulled the trigger repeatedly.
“Watch your eyes, Burris. I’ve heard of a kid got a spark in his eye and he had to go to the hospital.”
“What are caps made of?”
“Gunpowder.”
“What? _Gun_powder?”
The telephone rang inside.
“I’m not allowed to answer,” Burris said.
“Did they turn the phone back on?”
“I don’t know.”
“Well, it’s ringing, ain’t it?”
“Shut up.”
“Now it done quit, you fool.”
“I wouldn’t answer anyhow. It sounds like bugs talking in there. Not people.”
“You’re a funny feller,” James said, and went inside, where it was hot and smelled a little like garbage. His mother refused to turn on the evaporative cooler unless the temperature got into the hundreds.
He carried a number of papers from school—homework, report card, year-end bulletins. He shoved them into the trash can under the sink.
The phone rang again. It was his brother Bill, Jr.
“Is it hot in [REDACTED]?”
“It’s almost a hundred, yeah.”
“It’s hot here, too. It’s sweaty.”
“Where you calling from?”
“[REDACTED], [REDACTED]. Hour ago I was standing on Waikiki Beach.”
“[REDACTED]?”
“Yep.”
“Do you see any hula girls?”
“I see a bunch of whores, is all. But I bet they’ll do the hula.”
“I bet they will, too!”
“What do you know about it?”
“Me? I don’t know,” James said. “I was just saying.”
“God damn, I wish I was back in good old [REDACTED].”
“Well, I’m not the one who reënlisted.”
“You can put me in a nice clean desert anytime you want to. It’s honest heat there, ain’t it? It’s dry and burning. This here’s mushy, is what it is. Hey, kid, imagine this—did you ever lift the lid on a kettle full of boiling sewage? That’s what it’s like stepping out on the street in this place.”
“So,” James said, “what all else is going on?”
“How old are you, anyway?”
“I’ll be seventeen here pretty quick.”
“What are you gonna do?”
“What am I gonna do? I don’t know.”
“Are you done with school?”
“I don’t know.”
“What do you mean, you don’t know? Did you graduate?”
“I’d have to go one more year to graduate.”
“Ain’t nothing else to do besides graduate, is there?”
“Not where I can see. Or I was thinking about the Army, maybe.”
 
“Why not the Navy?”
“Too many sailors in the Navy, pard.”
“You’re a wise-ass, pard. Better join the Army, pard. Because you’d just get your ass kicked repeatedly in my branch of the service.”
James was at a loss. He didn’t actually know this guy.
The operator interrupted, and Bill had to deposit more coins.
“Well,” James said, “are you in a bar, or what?”
“Yeah, a bar. I’m in a bar in [REDACTED], [REDACTED].”
“Well, I guess that’s . . .” He didn’t know what it was.
“Yeah. I been in the [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED]—let me see, where else? I don’t know—and the tropics ain’t no tropical paradise, I’m saying. It’s full of rot—bugs, sweat, stink, and I don’t know what all else. And most of the beautiful tropical fruit you see, it’s rotten—it’s mashed on the street.”
James said, “Well . . . I’m glad you called.”
“Yeah,” Bill said.
“O.K.”
“O.K.,” Bill said. “Hey, tell Mom I called, O.K.? And tell her I said hi.”
“O.K.”
“O.K. . . . Tell her I love her.”
“O.K. So long.”
“Hey. Hey. James.”
“Yeah?”
“You still there?”
“I’m still here.”
“Go in the Marines, man.”
“Aah, them are overrated.”
“The Marines get a sword.”
“The Marines are really the Navy,” James said. “Part of the Navy.”
“Yeah . . . Well . . .”
“Well . . .”
“Only the officers get a sword, anyway,” Bill said.
“Yeah.”
“Well, I gotta go get laid,” Bill said.
“Get some!”
“What do you know about it?” his brother said, laughing as he hung up.
James searched the kitchen drawers and found a half pack of his mother’s Salems. Before he got out the door the phone rang—Bill, Jr.
“Is it you again?”
“Last time I looked, yeah.”
“What’s up?”
“Say hi to South Mountain for me.”
“We don’t see South Mountain no more. We see the Papago Buttes.”
“On the east side?”
“We’re on East McDowell.”
“East McDowell?”
“Ain’t that the shits?”
“You’re out in the desert!”
“Mom’s working on a horse ranch.”
“I’ll be God-damned.”
“She knows about horses from when she was a little girl.”
“Watch out the Gila monster don’t bite you.”
“There ain’t much shade, but it’s nice. We’re right up near the Pima Reservation.”
“And you’re in school.”
“I been at Palo Verde for a while, since about October, maybe.”
“Palo Verde?”
“Yeah.”
“Palo Verde?”
“Yeah.”
“When we lived over on South Central, our school used to play Palo Verde in basketball or something, or football. What was the name of our school that time?”
“I went to the elementary. Carson Elementary.”
“I’ll be God-damned. I can’t remember the name of my own high school I went to.”
“Ain’t that the shits?”
“Do you ever get to Florence?”
“Nope.”
“Do you ever see Dad?”
“Nope,” James said. “He ain’t my dad, is why.”
“Well, you stay out of trouble. Learn by his example.”
“I don’t follow none of his examples. I don’t even look at his examples.”
“Well,” Bill, Jr., said, “anyway . . .”
“Anyway. Yeah. Are you really on Waikiki Beach?”
“Not really. Not right now.”
“We’re right about at Fifty-second and McDowell. They have a zoo over here.”
“A what?”
“Yeah, a little zoo.”
“Hey, tell Mom something—when is she gonna be home?”
“Later. A couple hours.”
“Maybe I’ll call her. I wanna tell her about something. There’s two guys on my ship from [REDACTED], so, anyway, you know what they both said? Said I sound like [REDACTED]. I said, ‘Well, sir, I never been—but my people are.’ Tell Mom that, O.K.?”
“I’ll do that.”
“Tell her she started me in [REDACTED], and I come out like I’m from there.”
“O.K.”
“O.K.—that’s short for [REDACTED]!”
“I’ll be God-damned,” James said.
“Yeah. Ain’t that the shits?”
“O.K.”
“O.K. So long.”
They hung up.
Drunk as a lord, James thought. Probably an alkie, like his father.
Burris marched in with his cap gun in one hand and a Popsicle in the other, wearing his short pants and nothing else, looking like a little stick man. “I think I got a spark in my eye.”
James said, “I gotta get going.”
“Does it look like I got a spark in my eye?”
“No. Shut up, you peculiar little feller.”
“Can I ride in the back of the truck?”
“Not unless you want to get bumped out and killed.”
He showered and changed, and just as he was going out the phone rang. His brother again.
“Hey . . . James.”
“Yeah.”
“Hey. Hey. Hey.”
James hung up and left the house.
James picked up [REDACTED], and then Rollo, and then a girl Rollo liked named Stevie Dale, short for Stephanie, and they drove out toward the McDowell Mountains looking for a party they’d heard about, a wild, unchaperoned outdoor affair, supposedly, off the road and out in the desert away from anything; but if such a gathering was actually being held it was lost in a maze of dry washes, and they steered back to the highway and sat in the bed of the pickup drinking beer. “Couldn’t you get it no colder?” James asked.
“I stole it from the icebox in the barn,” Rollo said.
“Can’t even find a party on graduation night,” James said.
“This isn’t graduation night,” [REDACTED] said.
“What is it, then?”
“It’s the last day of school. I’m not graduating. Are you graduating?”
“Warm beer,” James said.
“I’ll never graduate,” [REDACTED] said. “I don’t care.”
Rollo said, “Yeah, who gives a flying fuck,” and they all laughed at his vulgarity, and he said, “We’re country kids.”
“No, we ain’t,” James said.
“Your mother works on a horse ranch. My dad messes with irrigation. And there’s a great big barn behind my house, pardner.”
“It’s nicer out here,” Stevie Dale said. “No cops.”
“That’s true,” James said. “Ain’t nobody to bother you.”
“Just mind the snakes.”
“Mind this snake,” Rollo said, and the girls laughed.
It was a disappointment to James that when the two girls laughed [REDACTED] had to be the one who forced beer out her nose. Stevie was younger, just a freshman, but she seemed simpler and not so nervous. Stevie kept her back straight, and she smoked in a sexy way. What was he doing with [REDACTED]? Actually, it was Stevie that he liked.
He dropped Rollo off, and then he drove [REDACTED] home. Stevie kind of ended up still in the truck. He made sure to let [REDACTED] off first.
He kissed her goodbye as they stood out front of her house. She locked her arms behind his neck and clung to him, her lips slack and wet. James held her with his left arm only, and let the right one dangle. [REDACTED]’s older brother, out of work, came and stared from the doorway. “Shut the door or turn off the damn cooler, you fool,” her mother called from within.
James asked Stevie, “You need to go home?”
“Not exactly,” she said. “Not really.”
“You want to drive around?”
“Sure. That might be nice.”
They ended up right back where they’d been with the others an hour before, looking out at the low mountains, listening to the radio.
 
“What’s your plans for the summer?” Stevie said.
“I’m waiting on a sign.”
“That means you don’t have any,” she said.
“Any what?”
“Any plans.”
“I don’t know if I should aim for just a summer job or find something real and permanent—just not go back to school.”
“You mean drop out?”
“I was thinking I’d get in the service, like my dad.”
She made no response to this idea. She placed her fingertip on the dashboard and rubbed it back and forth.
James was entirely out of conversation. His neck felt so taut he doubted he could even turn his head. Not one word occurred to him to say.
He wished she’d say something about [REDACTED]. All she said was “What are you so sulky about?”
“Shit.”
“What?”
“I think I gotta break up with [REDACTED]. I really have to.”
“Yeah . . . I’d say she probably feels it coming.”
“Really? She does?”
“You’re just not lit up around her, James, not at all.”
“You can tell, huh?”
“You’ve got a cloud raining down all around you.”
“What about right now this minute?”
“What?”
“Ain’t raining down on me right this minute, is it?”
“No.” She was smiling. She was the sun. “Are you really going into the service?”
“Yep. The Army or the Marines. I guess you’re gonna let me kiss you now, ain’t you?”
She laughed. “You’re funny.”
He kissed her a long time, and then she said, “That’s what I like about you. You’re funny when you’re happy. And you’re good-looking—that’s one thing, too,” and they spent a while kissing, until a commercial came on the radio, and he spent some time with the dial.
“Hmm,” she said.
“What is it, Stevie?”
“I’m trying to think, Does this man kiss like the Army or like the Marines? Hmm,” she said, kissing him. She broke away. “Maybe the U.S. Air Force.”
He kissed her and very gently touched her arms, her cheeks, her neck. He knew better than to put his hands where he wanted to. “I’ve got one warm beer left,” he said.
“Go ahead. I’m not thirsty.”
He sat against the driver’s door, and she against hers. He was glad the sun was setting, so he didn’t have to worry what he looked like. Sometimes he wasn’t sure the expression on his face made any sense.
Now he had to burp. He just went ahead and did it loudly and said, “Greetings from the interior.”
Stevie said, “Your dad’s in prison, isn’t he?”
“Where’d you get that one?”
“Is he?”
“No, that’s more my stepdad,” James said. “Just some guy, really. He’s my mother’s fault, not mine.”
“And your real dad’s in the service, huh?”
James draped his arms over the wheel and rested his chin on them, staring out. So now she suddenly thought they should tell their worst secrets to each other.
He got out and went behind some scrub and took a leak. The sun had dropped behind Camelback Mountain, southwest of them. The sky was still pure blue above, and then at the horizon tinted some other color, a rosy yellow that went away when you looked at it.
Beside her again in the truck he said, “Well, I just made up my mind: I’m joining the Army Infantry.”
“Really? The infantry, huh?”
“Yep.”
“Then what? Specialize in something?”
“I’m going to get over there to [REDACTED].”
“And then what?”
“I’m going to fuck up a whole lot of people.”
“God,” she said. “You’re not with the guys here, you know. I’m a female.”
“Sorry about that, chief.”
She put her hand on the back of his neck and touched his hair tenderly with her fingers. To stop her doing it, he sat up straight.
“That’s an awful thing to say, James.”
“What?”
“What you said.”
“It just came out. I didn’t mean it, I don’t think.”
“Then don’t say it.”
“Shit. Do you think I’m that evil?”
“Everybody’s got a mean side. Just don’t feed it till it grows.”
They kissed some more.
“Well, anyhow,” he said, “what do you feel like doing at the moment?”
“What . . . I don’t know. Do we have gas?”
“Yep.” It thrilled him that she’d said “we.”
“Let’s drive around and see what’s going on.”
“Let’s take the long way.” That meant that he’d make a serious pass at her.
“O.K.” That meant that she wouldn’t mind.
James stood out front of the house in the dark as his mother came home from work in Tom Mooney’s Chevy convertible, staring out the passenger side with her mouth lagging open, her face hidden by a ragged straw hat, a bandanna protecting her neck. Mooney waved to James, and James dropped his cigarette butt to the earth and stomped it out and waved. By then the Chevy was gone.
She went on inside without a word for her son, this silence both unusual and welcome.
It lasted until he followed her into the kitchen. “If you don’t think that ranch has about wore me out, just come feel the muscle a-quivering on this arm. If I heat a can of soup, you better eat it. Don’t make me fuss and then just sit there dreaming your dreams.” She turned on the kitchen light and stood under it looking small and spent. “I’ve got bologna and I’ve got tomaters. Do you want a sandwich? Sit down, and I’ll make us soup and sandwiches. Where’s Burris?”
“Who?”
“He’ll be around. He’s always hungry. I lost weight while I carried him to term. I started out one-nineteen, and in my ninth month I was down to one-eleven. He fed on me from the inside.” Wiping at her face, she smeared it with dirt from her hand.
“Mom. Wash up before you cook.”
“Oh, Lord,” she said. “I’m just so tired I forget I’m alive. Open the can for me, hon.”
They ate peanut butter and jelly and Campbell’s soup.
“I’ll cut up this tomater.”
“I just ate. I don’t want it.”
“You’ve got to have vegetables.”
“There’s vegetables in the soup. That’s why it’s called ‘Vegetable Soup.’ ”
“Don’t run away. I mean to talk to you. When is your school done for the summer?”
“It finished up today.”
“Come to work at the ranch, then.”
“I don’t know about that.”
“What don’t you know? Do you know a dollar when you don’t see one? Because I don’t see one.”
“I was thinking about the military. Maybe the Army.”
“When? Now?”
“I’m seventeen.”
“Seventeen and crazy.”
“Bill, Jr., was seventeen. You signed for him.”
“It didn’t hurt him, I suppose.”
“He called today.”
“He called? What did he say?”
“Nothing. He’s in [REDACTED].”
“I’ve never seen a dime from him. Not that I’d ever ask it.”
“If I get in the Army, I’ll send you some.”
“Once or twice he sent some money. Not regular. He hasn’t lately. And I can’t ask him because my pride strangles me.”
“I’ll send some every payday, I swear,” James said.
“You decide that on your own.”
“Does that mean you’d sign for me?”
She didn’t answer.
He picked up a fork and started eating sliced tomato. “You send me the envelope every month, I’ll send you some money back inside it.”
 
“Did you talk to the recruiters yet?”
“I will.”
“When?”
“I will.”
“Will when?”
“Monday.”
“If you have the papers Monday night, and you can show me some good reasons for the service, I might sign. But if you’re just dreaming then Tuesday you better wake up and get over to the ranch with me. I got the phone back on, but the rent is waiting on the Lord to move. Where’s Burris?”
“He’ll come when he’s hungry.”
“He’s always hungry,” she said, and began to say all over again the same things she’d just told him, because she was unable not to say them.
His mother was unable to be quiet. She read the Bible all the time. She was too old to be his mother, too worn out and stupid to be his mother.
Bill [REDACTED] thoroughly enjoyed beer, but there was a point where it started to stick in his throat. This tavern must have been facing west, because the burning sun came through the open door. No air-conditioning, but he was used to that in the places he drank in. It was a dive, all right.
He came back from the toilet, and Kinney was still interrogating the beach bum, the ex-marine. “What did you do? Tell me exactly what you did.”
“Nothing. Fuck it.”
Bill [REDACTED] sat down and said, “I got nothing against you boys. Got a little brother wants to go in the Marines.”
The ex-marine was drunk. “That ain’t nothing. I’ve seen some things.”
“He’s talking like he did something to some woman over there,” Kinney said.
“Where?” [REDACTED] said.
“[REDACTED], God damn it,” Kinney said. “Aren’t you listening?”
“I’ve seen some things,” the bum said. “What it was, they held this woman down and this one guy cut her pussy out. That stuff happens there all the time.”
“Jesus God. No shit?”
“I did some of it, too.”
“You did it?”
“I was there.”
[REDACTED] said, “You really”—he couldn’t quite repeat it—“you really did that?”
Kinney said, “You cut up some bitch’s cunt?”
“I was right there when it happened. Right nearby, right in the same—almost in the same village.”
“It was your guys? Your outfit? Somebody in your platoon?”
“Not ours. It was some Korean guys, a Korean outfit. Those fuckers are senseless.”
“Now shut the fuck up,” Kinney said, “and tell us what the fuck you did.”
“There’s a lot of bad business that goes on,” the man said.
“You’re bullshit. The U.S. Marines would never put up with that. You’re so bullshit.”
The guy held up both hands like an arrestee. “Hey, wow, man—what’s all the excitement about?”
“Just tell me you cut up a living woman, and I’ll admit you’re not bullshit.”
The bartender shouted, “You! I told you before! You want beef? You want scrap?”—a big fat 556e6974656420537461746573an with no shirt on.
“This is a moke right here,” the beach bum said as the bartender threw down his rag and came over.
“I told you to get out of here.”
“That was yesterday.”
“I told you to get out of here with that talk. That means I don’t wanna see you yesterday, today, and tomorrow.”
“Hey, I got a beer here.”
“Take it with you. I don’t care.”
Kinney stood up. “Let’s get the fuck out of this shit-hole moke joint.” He put his hand up under his shirt at the level of his belt.
“You pull a gun in here you gonna do time, if I don’t kill you.”
“I get mad easy on a hot day.”
“Get out, you three.”
“You making me mad?”
The young bum laughed insanely and hopped backward toward the door, dangling his arms like a monkey.
[REDACTED], too, hurried for the exit, saying, “Come on, come on, come on!” He was pretty sure he’d actually seen a gun butt in the waist of Kinney’s jeans.
“See—that’s a moke. Right there,” the bum said once they got outside. “They act all rough and tough. You get an advantage on them, and right away they cry like little babies.”
They each bought a jug of Mad Dog 20/20 from a grocer who demanded that they buy three loaves of Wonder bread along with the wine, but it was still a bargain. They ate a little of the bread and tossed the rest to a couple of dogs. Soon they walked, drunk, surrounded by a pack of hungry strays, toward a glaring white strip of beach and the black sea and blue froth crashing on the sand.
A man stopped his car, a white official-looking Ford Galaxie, and rolled down his window. He was an admiral in uniform. “Are you fellas enjoying the hell out of yourselves?”
“Yes, sir!” Kinney said, saluting by putting his middle finger to his eyebrow.
“I hope like hell you are,” the admiral said. “Because hard times are coming for assholes like you.” He rolled up his window and drove away.
The rest of the afternoon they spent drinking on the beach. Kinney sat against the trunk of a palm tree. The bum lay flat on his back with his Mad Dog balanced on his chest.
[REDACTED] took off his shoes and socks to feel the sand mounding under his arches. He felt his heart expanding. At this moment he finally understood the phrase “tropical paradise.”
He told his two comrades, “What I’m saying, I mean, about these mokes—I think they’re related to the 496e646961ns that live down around my home. And not just them 496e646961ns but also 496e646961ns that are from 496e646961, and every other kind of person you can think of who’s like that, who’s got something Oriental going on, and that’s why I think, really, there ain’t that many different kinds of people on this earth. And that’s why I’m against war.” He waved his Mad Dog around. “And that’s why I’m a pacifist.” It was wonderful to stand on the beach before this audience and gesture with a half gallon of wine and talk.
Kinney, however, did disturbing things. With a dreamy look on his face, he tipped his bottle above his shiny black dress shoes and watched the wine dribble onto the toes. He tossed several pinches of sand in the bum’s direction, speckling his chest, his face, his mouth. The bum brushed it away and pretended not to realize where it was coming from.
Kinney suggested taking the party to a friend’s house. “I want you to meet this guy,” he told the bum, “and then we’re gonna fix your bullshit.”
“Fine with me, asshole,” the bum said.
Kinney held up his thumb and forefinger pressed together. “I’d like to get you in a space about that big,” he said.
They headed across the beach to find the house of Kinney’s friend. [REDACTED] was in agony, dealing with bare feet on the hot sand, and now on the black asphalt.
“Where are your shoes, you moron?”
[REDACTED] had his white socks in the pockets of his Levi’s, but his shoes were gone.
He stopped to purchase a seventeen-cent pair of zoris at a store. They had a sale on Thunderbird, but Kinney said that his friend owed him money and promised to take them out on the town later on.
 
[REDACTED] had loved those ivory-white bucks. To keep them white, he’d powdered them with talc. And now? Abandoned to the tide.
“Is this a military base?” he asked. They were in some kind of development of cheap little pink and blue dwellings.
“These are bungalows,” the bum said.
“Hey,” [REDACTED] said to their companion. “What is your name, man?”
“I’ll never tell,” the bum said.
“He’s totally full of bullshit,” Kinney said.
Maybe these bungalows seemed a bit slummy, but not compared with what [REDACTED] had seen in Southeast Asia. A mist of white sand covered the asphalt walkways, and as the three of them strolled under the coconut palms he could hear the surf in the distance. He’d passed through [REDACTED] several times, and he liked it a lot. It simmered and stank as much as any other tropical place, but it was part of [REDACTED], and things were in good repair.
Kinney checked the numbers above the doorways. “This is my buddy’s house. Let’s go around back.”
[REDACTED] said, “Why don’t we just ring the doorbell?”
“I don’t want to ring the doorbell. Do you want to ring the doorbell?”
“Well, no, man. He ain’t my friend.” They followed Kinney around the building.
At one of the back windows, where a light shone, Kinney stood on tiptoe and peered inside, then he pressed himself against the trunk of a palm tree beside the wall and said to the beach bum, “Do me a favor—tap on the screen.”
“Why should I?”
“I intend to surprise this guy.”
“What for?”
“Just do it, will you? This guy owes me money, and I want to surprise him about it.”
The bum scratched his fingernails along the window screen. The light went off within. A man’s face hovered in the window frame, barely visible behind the screen. “What’s the story, Mister?”
Kinney said, “Greg.”
“Who’s that?”
“It’s me.”
“Oh, hey, man—Kinney.”
“Yeah, that’s right, it’s me. You got the two-sixty?”
“I didn’t see you there, man.”
“You got my two-sixty?”
“You just back on the island? Where you been?”
“I want my two-sixty.”
“Shit, man. I have a phone. Why didn’t you call?”
“I wrote you we’d be pulling in the first week in June. What do you think this is? It’s the first week in June. And I want my money.”
“Shit, man. I don’t have all of it.”
“How much you got, Greg?”
“Shit, man. I can probably get some of it.”
Kinney said, “You are a lying piece of genuine shit.”
From his waistband he pulled a blue-steel .45 automatic and aimed it at the man, and the man dropped like a puppet with its strings cut and disappeared. Right at that time [REDACTED] heard an explosion. He tried to understand where this noise had come from, to find some explanation for it other than that Kinney had just shot this man in the chest.
“Come on, come on,” Kinney said.
There was a hole through the window screen.
“[REDACTED]!”
“What?”
“We’re done. We’re going.”
“We are?”
[REDACTED] couldn’t feel his own feet. He moved along as if on wheels. They passed houses, parked vehicles, buildings. Now traffic surrounded them. They’d come a long way in what seemed like three or four seconds. He was out of breath and sopped with sweat.
The crazy bum said, “That’s pretty nifty, man. I think you won that conversation.”
“I don’t forgive my debtors. I don’t forgive those who have trespassed against me.”
“I gotta go.”
“Yeah, I bet you gotta go, you stupid fuck.”
“Where are we?” [REDACTED] said.
The bum was moving at a tangent now, off the sidewalk, into the street.
“Hey. I don’t like your face,” Kinney said as the guy left. “You crazy treacherous coward.”
“What?” the guy said. “Listen, don’t fuck with me.”
“Don’t fuck with you?”
“I think that’s my bus,” the guy said, and sprinted across the street through squealing traffic and got behind the cover of a bus.
Kinney shouted, “Hey! Marine! Yeah! Fuck you! Semper Fi!”
[REDACTED] doubled up and vomited all over a mailbox.
Kinney didn’t look right. A greasy film covered his eyes. He said, “Let’s get a drink. Have you ever had a depth charger? Shot of bourbon in a mug of beer?”
“Yeah.”
“I could use a bellyful of them bastards.”
“Yeah, yeah,” [REDACTED] said.
They found a place with air-conditioning, and Kinney got the two of them set up with beers and shots in a booth in the darkness at the back and began preparing depth chargers.
“This’ll put some torque in your pork. Ever had one of these?”
“Sure—you drop a shot in a beer.”
“Ever had one?”
“Well, I just know how you make one,” [REDACTED] said.
Without any sense of the intervening hours, [REDACTED] awakened sweaty and all bitten up by mosquitoes and sand fleas, a sagging mattress swallowing him alive, a headache pounding against his skull. He could hear the surf pounding, also. His first fully conscious thought was that he’d seen one man shoot another man, just like that.
He seemed to be quartered in some kind of open-air bedroom. He made his way to the faucet in the corner, where he drank deeply of the sweet water and peed, first removing from the sink a wet bedsheet with a large black-rimmed hole burned in its middle. He found his watch, wallet, pants, and shirt, but he’d lost his shoes on the beach, he now remembered, and he was pretty sure he’d left his kit bag at the Y. His seventeen-cent zoris seemed to have walked off on their own.
His wallet held a five and two ones. He collected ninety cents in coins scattered on the bamboo floor. He stepped out to get his bearings.
His head swam. The water he’d gorged on was making him drunk all over again.
The sign said “King Kane Hotel,” and it said “Sailors Welcome.”
He kept an eye out for Kinney, but he didn’t see anyone at all, not a living soul. It was like a desert island. Palms, the bright beach, the dark ocean. He headed away from the beach, toward town.
He didn’t return to the Bonners Ferry. He had no intention of getting anywhere near her berth, or anywhere else that he might run into Kinney, the last person he wanted to see. He missed the sailing and spent two weeks ashore without liberty, sleeping on the beach and eating once per day at a Baptist mission on the waterfront, until he was confident that Kinney was closer to [REDACTED] than to [REDACTED]. Then he turned himself in to the Shore Patrol for a week’s recuperation in the brig.
His rate was rolled back to E-3 and he was a seaman again, which meant that he automatically lost his boilerman rating. This was the second demotion of his career. The first had resulted from “repeated minor infractions” during his tour at Subic Bay Naval Base, in the [REDACTED]—after he’d taken to the warrens of vice outside its gates.
[REDACTED] spent the following eighteen months assigned to grunt work and garbage detail on the base in Yokosuka, 4a6170616e, mostly with rowdy black men, low-aptitude morons, and worthless bust-outs like him. More often than he liked, he remembered the admiral in [REDACTED] who’d lowered the window of his white Ford Galaxie and promised, “Hard times are coming.” 

