THE MAHOGANY ELEPHANT
By Maxim Biller

He waited for her for three months. He sorted out his photos, rearranged his books, moved the furniture around, and then he went on waiting. After that, he read all the letters he had ever received and threw most of them away, and then he bought a large map of 496e646961 and hung it above his bed. Or, rather, he didn’t buy a map of 496e646961, but that was what he really wanted to do while he was waiting. He waited and waited, and began to write a story about waiting for her, but he didn’t know how it would end, so he stopped. Finally, he did nothing at all; he didn’t even wait anymore. He was sleeping less and less, eating nothing but bread and tomatoes and yellow supermarket cheese, and then, at last, she came back. They sat together on his sofa, and she said, “It’s been a long time.”
“Yes,” he said, although he had firmly made up his mind to say as little as possible. “It’s been a very long time.”
She had lost weight on her travels, and he didn’t think she looked better than before. She was tired, but then she was always tired; she’d gone away to recover from feeling tired all the time, and now that she was back she was still tired. And she’d grown older. Older or harder or more serious—he wasn’t sure which. There was a gray tinge to her tanned skin, the kind you usually see only on older women. Her smile was much too grave and thoughtful, and her cheekbones were even more prominent than before.
She rose to her feet and left the room. When she came back, she had a bright-colored bag in her hand.
“This is for you,” she said.
“Thank you, my love,” he said. He opened the bag. There was a small, fat black mahogany elephant in it. He put the elephant in his pocket.
“Would you like a drink?” he asked.
“Some water.”
“I bought wine for you.”
“No, water,” she said.
He stood up slowly and grazed her leg with his. Apart from the fleeting kiss when she arrived, it was their first physical contact in three months.
“Really just water?” he called from the kitchen, but she didn’t reply. “Chilled or room temperature?” he asked, and she called quietly back, “Room temperature.”
He took a case of water out of the closet, then pushed it back in with his foot and opened the bottle of wine that had been standing on the kitchen table for the past six weeks. He picked up two glasses and the bottle, and before going back to the living room he took the elephant out of his pocket and threw it in the garbage.
“Jordi,” she said, “I didn’t want wine.”
“No,” he agreed. “It’s still too early for wine.”
“I didn’t drink at all while I was there,” she said.
“That’s a pity,” he said.
“No, I don’t think so.”
“I think it is.”
He poured wine for himself, then for her, and they clinked glasses. She didn’t look into his eyes, and she drank only a tiny sip before going into the kitchen to fetch a bottle of water. She sat down on the sofa again, as far from him as she had been before, and began telling him about her travels—but he was barely listening. While she’d been away, he had kept trying to imagine where she was at any given time, and what it was like there, but now he couldn’t care less about 496e646961; he just wanted to know what her decision was. Of course, he knew already, but he wanted to hear it from her own mouth. He wanted her to suffer a little; he wanted her to have to say it and feel unhappy about hurting him. “No,” she would say. “We’re not going to get married, Jordi. I know that’s not what I want now, so we’ll never see each other again, the way we agreed.”
“Did you miss me?” he said.
“No, Jordi,” she said. “I didn’t.”
“Of course not,” he said, and nodded.
“Are you angry?”
“No.”
“I’m glad.”
“Good.”
“Are you sure you’re not angry?”
“I’m sure.”
He looked out the window. When she left, he had still been able to see across the square to the Church of Zion. Now the trees were in leaf and all he saw from the window was those wonderful large green leaves. The leaves swayed back and forth in the wind, reminding Jordi of seaweed drifting in the ocean.
Perhaps it was because they hadn’t seen each other for so long. They hadn’t seen each other for almost as long as they’d known each other! He laid his arm on the back of the sofa behind her and left it there for a few minutes, but then he took it away again. The arm didn’t feel quite sure of itself.
“What about you?” she asked.
“Me?”
“What have you been doing?”
“Why didn’t you call?” he said. “Not once in three months!”
“But you knew,” she said, taking alarm. “That was our agreement, wasn’t it?”
She was right. She’d even said, “Suppose I stay there for good?” And he had said that would be O.K., she was a free agent, and if they never said another word to each other again that would be O.K., too. But he had said so only out of calculation, because he knew that she was an Aries—and just try keeping a ram captive.
“There’s a story about that elephant,” she said. She paused, waiting for him to ask what the story was, but all he could think about was how to get the elephant out of the garbage without her noticing.
“It was the fourth,” she said. “Honestly, it was the fourth, I swear it.”
He didn’t say anything. Then he went into the kitchen, and before bending over the trash he turned around, to be on the safe side.
“I lost the first three!” she called from the living room. “Can you imagine it—all three of them? Do you think that means something?”
He was frantically searching through the garbage, but he couldn’t find the elephant. He dug his bare hands deeper and deeper into the damp, smelly trash, and then he took everything out and laid it on the floor.
“I know this one’s ugly!” she called again. “I bought it at the airport in [REDACTED]. You should have seen the others. They were really pretty!”
He couldn’t find it. He knelt, sweating, with the trash of the past three days spread out on the floor around him, and suddenly he realized how crazy he was. He thought, If she sees this, she’ll think I’m totally crazy, and he began picking up the trash and stuffing it back in the garbage can.
“Actually, that’s not true. I didn’t want to bring anything back for you.” There she was behind him. “I simply forgot about you.”
He turned his head and looked up at her from below. She ran her hand through his hair and said, “And then I remembered you again in [REDACTED], at the airport. . . . What’s the matter? Have you thrown it away already?”
 
“Yes,” he said.
“Then we’re quits,” she said. She knelt down beside him and helped to pick up the trash. It was soon done, and then they washed their hands together in the bathroom, looked at each other in the mirror, and smiled.
“Would you go out, please?” she said.
She had never felt shy about sitting on the toilet in front of him before. Although he didn’t really like it, he would have given anything for her not to send him out now. He closed the door behind him and went into the living room. He sat down on the sofa, but got up again the next minute and put some music on. It was a CD they’d listened to together a couple of times, so he quickly turned it off. He sat down on the sofa again and looked out the window, watching the large green leaves swaying in the wind, and then he didn’t feel so bad after all. It was as if he himself had just come back from a journey, a very good one, but difficult, too; indeed, often simply tedious. And, now that he was back, he was glad not to be travelling, glad that he could just sit here where he had sat for years, looking out the window at the large green leaves and enjoying them, waiting for them to fall so that he could see the church behind them and be glad to think that they would soon be growing again.
Before she went away, they’d tried it on the sofa once. No, he had tried it; she went along with him at first, but then she suddenly crossed her arms over her bare breasts. He ran his hand over her belly, and she pressed her legs firmly together. He turned away, disappointed, and she said it was horrible of him to punish her like that. After her flight had taken off, he sent her a text message apologizing, and perhaps she had seen it when the plane stopped over in [REDACTED], or perhaps not.
How much longer would she stay on the toilet? She usually took very little time about it—he was always surprised by how little time she needed—but she went very often. He sometimes had to go frequently, too, but only when he was nervous, which maybe meant that she was always nervous. Today was different; this was the first time she’d gone to the bathroom since arriving, and she had been here for two hours. So today she wasn’t as nervous as usual! As soon as that thought occurred to him, he felt nervous and wanted to go to the bathroom himself.
He sat there for a while, waiting. Ten minutes must have passed, and then he couldn’t wait any longer and went over to the bathroom. The door was closed, so he knocked, but there was no answer. He knocked again, louder, and now he heard her.
“I’m here,” she said quietly.
“Where?”
“Here,” she said even more quietly.
She was in the bedroom. She was lying in his bed fully clothed, and when he came in she said, “All right, let’s get married.” She lay there in his bed fully clothed, and then she turned on her side, laid her head on the pillow and put her hands under it, and looked at him gravely and sadly. 

