THE STOLEN PIGEONS
By Marguerite Duras

The old Bousque woman always arrived precipitously, as if she were short on time.
From Bugues, you could see her head rising in the distance, above the hedge of medlar trees that separated our land from that of her children. A narrow path crossed through this hedge, and at the opening was a little hill that she ascended and descended as nimbly as a young woman. Then she continued along a row of artichoke plants, her head bowed, always at that dramatic pace. It was as if she couldn’t slow down without falling.
Her body was bent at the waist, thanks to the long winter afternoons she spent leaning over her fire, and her thin arms slid back and forth like the pendulums of a clock; they seemed too long now, even though they’d succumbed to the same shrinkage as the rest of her body. The poor old Bousque woman. She had become so small, at the end of her life, that she was barely taller than the artichoke plants.
Every time we saw her, we said, “Look, here comes the old Bousque woman.”
And every time we were surprised, as if the event were surprising for its very regularity.
Well before she arrived, she’d call out a friendly word with what little voice she had left, which was shrill and rasping. And we’d respond at the top of our lungs, as if she were deaf.
We never left off work in order to speak or listen to her—she simply came over to us and quite naturally began to help with whatever we were doing, all while talking away, telling some story.
Sometimes, however, she’d take me aside and murmur to me what she didn’t dare say out loud: “Tell me, when do you think you’ll be leaving?”
Because she liked us very much, she lived in fear that we would leave the area before she died. We had returned from far away, so far away that she didn’t even know exactly where, but she did know that a warm wind now blew through the pines of Bugues, comforting her old bones and giving her, at her advanced age, which was well past seventy-five, her fill of fantasy and intrigue, as well as her only real opportunity to go beyond the village. The friends of her youth were all more or less invalids now and were happier without her company. It has to be said that the old Bousque woman, as old as she was, had not become pious with age, an unusual state of affairs in this part of the country. You saw her only at Midnight Mass, because she liked nighttime, as well as celebrations, and as much as you liked her you couldn’t help disapproving a little. She was the first person in the entire area to venture our way, to create a bond with people like us, who had come back to Bugues after so many years of abandonment.
Despite her incredible ignorance, her mind was still sharp, and filled with a pure form of curiosity. People were a little afraid of her, as one is afraid of those whose vision is clear and who retain everything, as one is afraid of life, with its inspirations, its unfathomable poetry. Which is why people chose to call her a gossip, when she was really a fantasist. My mother had more respect for her than for anyone else around.
For us children, she came with the evening, which carried us back to the house, but she was also the old woman we locked our doors against, protecting ourselves from a night that she seemed to bewitch. Only her eyes were still intensely alive, in a face slashed with wrinkles, each one lined with a deep black furrow. Still, that extraordinary face was the only thing about her that was old, and it seemed that she’d never die—she had adapted so well to the years. But something awful did happen to her; it was the kind of story that she herself would surely have enjoyed telling, if it hadn’t nailed her down forever.
It was at this fountain that her daughter-in-law, Jeanne Bousque, quenched her thirst.
Jeanne hadn’t had, so to speak, a real childhood. Hers had been spent in a feverish wait for some power of her own; her marriage had given her back neither those lost years nor her joy. Still, she ruled in her house, and because she had been for so long unable to exert her authority over her own family, she now exerted it beyond all reason over the family of her husband. There were only four of them—the old woman, Jeanne, her husband, Louis, and their son, Jean—and the victory was a little hollow, to tell the truth. But what did that matter! So long as in the eyes of the village she was now viewed as the mistress of the house.
You should have seen her toying with the old Bousque woman as if she were a child! The old woman was much too clever to get angry about it, since she knew that her son would never dare to side with her over his wife; nor would her grandson—he was only fourteen and had other things on his mind. So she cheerfully accepted her role in the household. But it was precisely her good mood, which nothing could subdue, that wounded the vanity of her daughter-in-law; it was as if the old woman were the only one who could make Jeanne question her own standing.
From year to year, Jeanne’s tone with the old woman became sharper. She looked at her with wild eyes, her face eaten away by who knows what despair.
If you had seen that little old woman, so lovable, so easy to take, you could never have imagined anyone hating her in that way!
But if you asked the daughter-in-law for news of her she’d say, with a hypocritical sigh, “Well, of course, she’s getting old. Haven’t you noticed, she’s becoming dirty? She who was once so neat, I hear?” Or: “When Jean is older, we’ll give him the upstairs bedroom.” She’d point up at the old Bousque woman’s room, which she never visited.
Despite all this, in the eyes of others in the village, the old Bousque woman remained the mistress of the house. Even though she had already passed all of her property on to her children, and was perfectly content to be fed and allowed to stay in her little room.
One March day, as soon as she had finished her housework, Jeanne Bousque headed off toward the Pelgrin property, on the high plateau above the village.
Normally, she took this route only on Sundays, on her way to [REDACTED] So we were surprised to catch sight of her there on a weekday; plus, she was walking fast and barely greeting those she passed, for fear of being delayed along the way. She picked her way through the alfalfa and took the road that ran through the village. Then she began to climb the hill, following the path that snaked between the vines. She arrived at the property line that dominated the landscape at around eleven o’clock. Her face was red from the wind, and she was panting a little, having hurried through the long ascent.
 
“Well, what kind wind has blown you our way, Mme. Bousque?”
Once everyone began referring to her mother-in-law as “the old Bousque woman,” this one had become Mme. Bousque—because she was respected in the area, but also because she came from another village.
She didn’t immediately answer the question. If, when she embarked on this errand, the words and sentences had been whirling around in her head, they had got themselves in order en route. And now she had it down—her story—commendably, having prepared it along the way. She wanted to make the most of it!
Where was she going? She was carrying her seed as far as possible, in order to plant it in the most fertile spot—on the Pelgrins’ high plateau, from which the bit of gossip would be carried, like the wind, to at least three neighboring villages. Ah! She had good aim, Mme. Bousque—she knew her neighbors!
“You know my cousins from [REDACTED] . . .”
Her haste and fatigue had left her so breathless that she had to begin again.
“You know my cousins from [REDACTED], the ones who are supposed to arrive tonight? Imagine this: Last night, before going to bed, I prepared a pair of my best-looking, fattest pigeons—only the best for them! So I cook the birds, I put them away in the pantry, and I go to bed. In the middle of the night, I hear a noise downstairs. I give Louis a nudge, and we go down together. I even told him to bring his gun—you never know, you know, with all those railway workers going through here at night. . . .”
 
The two Pelgrins were all ears. Their pupils burned like coals.
“What do I see?” the Bousque woman continued. “I thought I was dreaming! Louis and I were speechless, paralyzed. The old woman! It was terrifying! Sitting on her stool, she was devouring my pigeons, with both hands, like this. . . . I barely recognized her, she looked so different. After a long time, she turned around. She froze when she saw us—I thought for a moment she might be in shock. But then she pulled herself together and ran out of the room—ran! She is spry, that old woman, you know. She took the stairs four at a time and locked herself up in her room.”
“My goodness!” the Pelgrin woman said. “But she’s kept her wits about her for so long—who would have imagined such a thing!”
But he—M. Pelgrin—spoke seriously, as the situation required. “So it’s all over for her, the old Bousque woman. She has lost it, just like that.”
“It’s not as if I were depriving her of anything,” the mischief-maker said. “But, one day or another, age will get you. Some old people talk all day; others become misers. This one, her madness will be to steal food and stuff herself when she’s not even hungry. Well, it’s not so bad—it could have been a lot worse for us.”
The old Bousque woman stayed in her room for several days. To those who were surprised not to see her around, Jeanne Bousque said, laughing, “Oh! With that pair of pigeons, she has eaten enough for two days, the poor old thing. . . . Well, it’s not that I begrudge her the food.”
She said this loudly enough for her words to reach all the way up to the old woman’s attic room. . . .
The old Bousque woman was ashamed.
What had come over her? It was true that old age had finally got her, as her daughter-in-law said. The excessive appetite for pigeons that had overcome her suddenly, and the way she had devoured them, like an animal—she was doomed, for sure, and everyone knew it, everyone in Bugues, the village, the whole world knew it. . . .
What a delicious thing it would have been for that little old woman to die just then. What a deliverance not to have to think anymore. But, unfortunately . . .
For two days and two nights, she stupidly watched the sky, the clouds that passed before her, running the way the children of the village would doubtless run after her from now on. She watched, without seeing it, the enormous mid-March moon.
Sitting at the center of her room, more hunched over than ever, she didn’t even dare to move her head, for fear of setting off the laughter that followed each of her movements and worried her ears. . . .
According to her daughter-in-law, she tried to steal one more time, but everything was locked up that night—can you imagine! Then, the following day, depleted, the old woman resigned herself to coming downstairs; she took advantage of a moment when the house was empty, in the middle of the afternoon, like an animal whose hunger has forced it out of its hole.
She humbly took her seat by the fire and stayed there. And, because from that day on she didn’t speak, nobody spoke to her, either; her son didn’t bother to wish her a good evening when he came back from the fields, and her grandson soon stopped kissing her when he got home from school, because she was no longer clean.
My mother, tactfully, allowed the old woman to die without trying to see her again, but she was the only one to do so. No one else in the village could resist the pleasure of getting at least one more look at her. Fortunately, all she could see now was her fire. . . .
She had become so gray, gray like her old companion; she was covered in ash—there was ash in the folds of her dress, in her hair, in all the wrinkles of her old skin.
Whenever someone came to the Bousque house and made it as far as the kitchen, which was big and bright, her daughter-in-law always apologized for the corner where the old woman sat, which she could never manage to clean.
“And if you could see her room,” she sighed. “A real sty.”
Jeanne had to wait until the fall to clean the place; the old Bousque woman took eight long months to die, eight months of beautiful spring and summer; you’d almost have believed that she was doing it on purpose. But, in the end, that long wait only increased the delight that Jeanne Bousque experienced when she could finally put all of her mother-in-law’s rags in a pile in the middle of the courtyard and light them on fire, a big fire that spread smoke through the whole village and which she stirred from time to time with a long poker. 

