STILL-LIFE
By Don DeLillo

When he appeared at the door, it was not possible, a man come out of an ash storm, all blood and slag, reeking of burned matter, with pinpoint glints of slivered glass in his face. He looked immense, in the doorway, with a gaze that had no distance in it. He carried a briefcase and stood slowly nodding. She thought he might be in shock but didn’t know what this meant in precise terms, medical terms. He walked past her toward the kitchen and she tried calling her doctor, then 911, then the nearest hospital, but all she heard was the drone of overloaded lines. She turned off the TV set, not sure why, protecting him from the news he’d just walked out of, that’s why, and then went into the kitchen. He was sitting at the table, and she poured him a glass of water and told him that Justin was with his grandmother, released early from school and also being protected from the news, at least as it concerned his father.
He said, “Everybody’s giving me water.”
She thought he could not have travelled all this distance or even climbed the stairs if he’d suffered serious injury, grievous blood loss.
Then he said something else. His briefcase sat beside the table like something yanked out of a landfill. He said there was a shirt coming down out of the sky.
She poured water on a dishcloth and wiped dust and ash from his hands, face, and head, careful not to disturb the glass fragments. There was more blood than she’d realized at first, and then she began to realize something else—that his cuts and abrasions were not severe or numerous enough to account for all this blood. It was not his blood. Most of it came from somebody else.
She said to her mother, “There he was in the doorway, up from the dead. It’s so lucky Justin was here with you. Because it would have been awful for him to see his father like that. Like gray soot head to toe, I don’t know, like smoke, standing there, with blood on his face and clothes.”
“We did a puzzle, an animal puzzle, horses in a field.”
Her mother’s apartment was not far from [REDACTED], with art on the walls, painstakingly spaced, and small bronze pieces on tables and bookshelves. Today the living room was in a state of happy disarray. Justin’s toys and games were scattered across the floor, subverting the timeless quality of the room, and this was nice, Lianne thought, because it was otherwise hard not to whisper in such a setting.
“I didn’t know what to do. I mean, with the phones out. Finally, we walked to the hospital. Walked, step by step, like walking a child.”
“Why was he there in the first place, in your apartment?”
“I don’t know.”
“Why didn’t he go straight to a hospital? Down there, downtown. Why didn’t he go to a friend’s place?”
Friend meant girlfriend, an unavoidable jab. She had to do it, couldn’t help herself.
“I don’t know.”
“You haven’t discussed this. Where is he now?”
“He’s all right.”
“What have you discussed?”
“No major problems, physical.”
“What have you discussed?” she said.
Her mother, Nina, had taught at universities in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] before retiring two years earlier, the So-and-So Professor of Such-and-Such, as Keith once called her. She was pale and thin, her mother, following knee-replacement surgery. She was finally and resolutely old. This is what she wanted, it seemed: to be old and tired, to embrace old age, take up old age, surround herself with it. There were the canes, there were the medications, there were the afternoon naps, the dietary restrictions, the doctor’s appointments.
“There’s nothing to discuss right now. He needs to stay away from things, including discussions.”
“Reticent.”
“You know Keith.”
“I’ve always admired that about him. He gives the impression there’s something deeper to him than hiking and skiing, or playing cards. But what?”
“Rock climbing. Don’t forget.”
“And you went with him. I did forget.”
Her mother stirred in the chair, feet propped on the matching stool, late morning, still in her robe, dying for a cigarette.
“I like his reticence, or whatever it is,” she said. “But be careful.”
“He’s reticent around you, or was, the few times there was actual communication.”
“Be careful. He was in grave danger, I know. He had friends in there. I know that, too,” her mother said. “But if you let your sympathy and good will affect your judgment. And Justin. Having a father around the house again.”
“The kid is fine. Who knows how the kid is? He’s fine, he’s back in school,” she said. “It reopened.”
“But you worry. I know this. You like to nourish your fear.”
“What’s next? Don’t you ask yourself? Not only next month. Years to come.”
“Nothing is next. There is no next. This was next. Eight years ago, they planted a bomb in one of the towers. Nobody said what’s next. This was next. The time to be afraid is when there’s no reason to be afraid. Too late now.”
Lianne stood by the window.
“But when the towers fell.”
“I know.”
“When this happened.”
“I know.”
“I thought he was dead.”
“So did I,” Nina said. “So many watching.”
“Thinking, He’s dead, she’s dead.”
“I know.”
“Watching those buildings fall.”
“First one, then the other. I know,” her mother said.
They were silent for a time.
Nina said, “Of course the child is a blessing, but otherwise, you know better than I, marrying the man was a huge mistake, and you willed it, you went looking for it. You wanted to live a certain way, never mind the consequences. You wanted a certain thing and you thought Keith.”
“What did I want?”
“You thought Keith would get you there.”
“What did I want?”
“To feel dangerously alive. This was a quality you associated with your father. But that wasn’t the case. Your father was at heart a careful man. And your son is a beautiful and sensitive child,” she said. “But otherwise.”
In truth, she loved this room, Lianne did, in its most composed form, without the games and the scattered toys. Her mother had been living here for a few years only, and Lianne tended to see it as a visitor might, a space that was serenely self-possessed, and so what if it was a little intimidating. What she loved most was the two still-lifes on the north wall, by Giorgio Morandi, a painter her mother had studied and written about. They were groupings of bottles, jugs, biscuit tins, that was all, but there was something in the brushstrokes that held a mystery for her, or in the irregular edges of the vases and jars, some reconnoiter inward, human and obscure, away from the very light and color of the paintings. Natura morta. The Italian term for still-life seemed stronger than it had to be, ominous, even, but these were matters she hadn’t talked about with her mother. Let the latent meanings turn and bend in the wind, free from authoritative comment.
“You liked asking questions as a child. Insistently digging. But you were curious about the wrong things.”
 
“They were my things, not yours.”
“Keith wanted a woman who’d regret what she did with him. This is his style, to get a woman to do something she’ll be sorry for. But the thing you did wasn’t just a night or a weekend. He was made for weekends. The thing you did.”
“This isn’t the time.”
“You actually married the man.”
“And then I threw him out. I had strong objections, building up over time. What you object to is very different. He’s not a scholar, not an artist. Doesn’t paint, doesn’t write poetry. If he did, you’d overlook everything else. He’d be the raging artist. He’d be allowed to behave unspeakably. Tell me something.”
“You have more to lose this time. Self-respect. Think about that.”
“Tell me this. What kind of painter is allowed to behave more unspeakably, figurative or abstract?”
He signed a document, then another. There were people on gurneys and there were others, a few, in wheelchairs, and he had trouble writing his name and more trouble fastening the hospital gown behind him. Lianne was there to help. Then she wasn’t anymore, and an orderly put him in a wheelchair and pushed him down a corridor and through a series of examining rooms, with urgent cases rolling by.
Doctors in scrubs and paper masks checked his airway and took blood-pressure readings. They were interested in potentially fatal reactions to injury—hemorrhage, dehydration. They looked for diminished blood flow to tissues. They studied the contusions on his body and peered into his eyes and ears. Someone gave him an EKG. Through the open door, he saw [REDACTED] racks go floating past. They tested his hand grip and took X-rays. They told him things he could not absorb about a ligament or a cartilage, a tear or a sprain.
Someone took the glass out of his face. The man talked throughout, using an instrument he called a pickup to extract the small fragments of glass that were not deeply embedded. He said that most of the worst cases were in hospitals downtown or at the trauma center on a pier. He said that survivors were not appearing in the numbers expected. He was propelled by events and could not stop talking. Doctors and volunteers were standing idle, he said, because the people they were waiting for were mostly back there, in the ruins. He said he would use a clamp for the deeper fragments.
“Where there are suicide bombings. Maybe you don’t want to hear this.”
“I don’t know.”
“In those places where it happens, the survivors, the people nearby who are injured, sometimes, months later, they develop bumps, for lack of a better term, and it turns out this is caused by small fragments, tiny fragments of the suicide bomber’s body. The bomber is blown to bits, literally bits and pieces, and fragments of flesh and bone come flying outward with such force and velocity that they get wedged, they get fixed in the body of anyone who’s in striking range. Do you believe it? A student is sitting in a café. She survives the attack. Then, months later, they find these little, like, pellets of flesh, human flesh that got driven into her skin. They call this organic shrapnel.”
He tweezered another splinter of glass out of Keith’s face.
“This is something I don’t think you have,” he said.
Justin’s two best friends were a sister and brother who lived in a high-rise ten blocks away. Lianne had trouble remembering their names at first and called them the Siblings, and soon the name stuck. Justin said that this was their real name anyway, and she thought, What a funny kid when he wants to be.
She saw Isabel on the street, the mother of the Siblings, and they stood at the corner talking.
“That’s what kids do, absolutely, but I have to admit I’m beginning to wonder.”
“They sort of conspire.”
“Yes, and sort of talk in code, and they spend a lot of time at the window in Katie’s room, with the door closed.”
“You know they’re at the window?”
“Because I can hear them talking when I walk by and I know that’s where they’re standing. They’re at the window, talking in this code. Maybe Justin tells you things?”
“I don’t think so.”
“Because it’s getting a little strange, frankly, all the time they spend, first, sort of huddled together, and then, I don’t know, like endlessly whispering in this semi-gibberish, which is what kids do, absolutely, but still.”
Lianne wasn’t sure what this was all about. It was about three kids being kids together.
“Justin’s getting interested in the weather. I think they’re doing clouds in school,” she said, realizing how hollow this sounded.
“They’re not whispering about clouds.”
“O.K.”
“My kids totally don’t want to discuss the matter. Katie enforces the thing. She basically inspires fear in her brother. I thought maybe you would know something.”
“I don’t think so.”
“Justin says nothing about any of this?”
“No. What would he say?”
“Exactly,” Isabel said.
Keith was tall, with cropped hair, and she thought he looked like Army, like career military, still in shape and beginning to look seasoned, not in combat but in the pale rigors of this life, in separation perhaps, in living alone, being a father from a distance.
He was in bed now and watched her, a few feet away, begin to button her shirt. They slept in the same bed because she could not tell him to use the sofa and because she liked having him here beside her. He didn’t seem to sleep. He lay on his back and talked but mostly listened, and this was all right. She didn’t need to know a man’s feelings about everything, not anymore and not this man. She liked the spaces he made. She liked dressing in front of him. She knew the time was coming when he’d press her to the wall before she finished dressing. He’d get out of bed and look at her, and she’d stop what she was doing and wait for him to come and press her to the wall.
He lay on a long narrow table within the closed unit. There was a pillow under his knees and a pair of track lights overhead, and he tried to listen to the music. Inside the powerful noise of the scanner, he fixed his attention on the instruments, separating one set from the other—strings, woodwinds, brass. The noise was a violent staccato knocking, a metallic clamor that made him feel as if he were deep inside the core of a science-fiction city about to come undone.
He wore a device on his wrist to produce a detailed image, and the sense of helpless confinement made him think of something the radiologist had said, a Russian whose accent he found reassuring, because Russians are serious people who place weight on every word, and maybe that’s why he chose classical music to listen to when she asked him to make a selection. He heard her now in his headset saying that the next sequence of noise would last three minutes, and when the music resumed he thought of Nancy Dinnerstein, who ran a sleep clinic in [REDACTED]. People paid her to put them to sleep. Or the other Nancy, what’s-her-name, briefly, between incidental sex acts, in [REDACTED] that time, [REDACTED], without a last name. The city had a last name, the woman did not.
 
The noise was unbearable, alternating between the banging-shattering sound and an electronic pulse of varied pitch. He listened to the music and thought of what the radiologist had said, that once it’s over, in her Russian accent, you forget instantly the whole experience, so how bad can it be, she’d said, and he thought this sounded like a description of dying. But that was another matter, wasn’t it, another kind of noise, and the trapped man does not come sliding out of his tube. He listened to the music. He tried hard to hear the flutes and to distinguish them from the clarinets, if there were clarinets, but he was unable to do this, and the only countervailing force was Nancy Dinnerstein drunk in [REDACTED], and it gave him a dumb and helpless hard-on, thinking of her in his drafty hotel room with a limited view of the river.
He heard the voice in his headset saying that the next sequence of noise would last seven minutes.
Now Lianne stood at the foot of the bed and watched him lying there, late one night, after she’d finished working, and asked him finally and quietly, “Why did you come here?”
“That’s the question, isn’t it?”
“For Justin, yes?”
This was the answer she wanted, because it made the most sense.
“So he could see you were alive,” she said.
But it was also only half the answer, and she realized she needed to hear something beyond this, a broader motive for his action or intuition or whatever it was.
He thought for a long moment.
“It’s hard to reconstruct. I don’t know how my mind was working. A guy came along in a van, a plumber, I think, and he drove me here. His radio had been stolen, and he knew from the sirens that something was going on but he didn’t know what. At some point, he had a clear view downtown, but all he could see was one tower. He thought one tower was blocking his view of the other tower, or the smoke was. He saw the smoke. He drove east a ways and looked again, and there was still only one tower. One tower made no sense. Then he turned uptown, because that’s where he was going, and finally he saw me and picked me up. By this time, the second tower was gone. Eight radios in three years, he said. All stolen. An electrician, I think. He had a water bottle he kept pushing in my face.”
“Your apartment, you knew you couldn’t go there.”
“I knew the building was too close to the towers, and maybe I knew I couldn’t go there and maybe I wasn’t even thinking about that. Either way, that’s not why I came here. It was more than that.”
She felt better now.
“He wanted to take me to the hospital, the guy in the van, but I told him to bring me here.”
He looked at her.
“I gave him this address,” he said for emphasis, and she felt better still.
It was a simple matter, outpatient surgery, a ligament or a cartilage, with Lianne in the reception area waiting to take him back to the apartment. On the table he thought of his buddy Rumsey, briefly, just before or after he lost sensation. The doctor, the anesthetist, injected him with a heavy sedative or other agent, a substance containing a memory suppressant, or maybe there were two shots, but there was Rumsey in his chair by the window, which meant the memory was not suppressed or the substance hadn’t taken effect yet, a dream, a waking image, whatever it was, Rumsey in the smoke, things coming down.
It’s interesting, isn’t it? To sleep with your husband, a thirty-eight-year-old woman and a thirty-nine-year-old man, and never a breathy sound of sex. He’s your ex-husband who was never technically ex, the man you married in another lifetime. She dressed and undressed; he watched and did not. It was strange but interesting. A tension did not build. This was extremely strange. She wanted him here, nearby, but felt no edge of self-contradiction or self-denial. Just waiting, that was all, an extended pause in recognition of a thousand sour days and nights, not so easily set aside. The matter needed time. It could not happen the way things did in normal course. And it’s interesting, isn’t it, the way you move about the bedroom, routinely near-naked, and the respect you show for the past, the deference to its fervors of the wrong kind, its passions of cut and burn.
She wanted contact, and so did he.
This time the woman showed up in the bakery, the mother of the Siblings. She walked in just after Lianne did and joined her after taking a number from the dispenser on the counter.
“I’m just wondering about the binoculars. He’s not, you know, the most outgoing child.”
She smiled at Lianne, warmly and falsely, in a fragrance of glazed cakes, a mother-to-mother look, like we both know how these kids have enormous gleaming worlds they don’t share with their parents.
“Because he always has them lately. I just wondered, you know, what he might have told you one way or the other.”
Lianne didn’t know what she was talking about. She looked into the broad and florid face of the man behind the counter. The answer wasn’t there.
“He shares them with my kids, so that’s not the problem, because their father promised them a pair, but we haven’t gotten around—you know, binoculars, not the highest priority, and my Katie’s being supersecret and her brother’s her brother, loyal to a fault.”
“You mean what are they looking at, behind closed doors?”
“I thought maybe Justin.”
“Can’t be much, can it? Maybe hawks. You know about the redtails.”
“No, it’s definitely something else. I’m sure of this, absolutely, because the binoculars are part of the whole hush-hush syndrome these kids are engulfed in.”
“I don’t think so,” Lianne said.
“This is their secret. And I thought maybe Justin. Because my kids totally blank out when I bring up the subject.”
She hadn’t known that Justin was taking the binoculars on his visits to the Siblings. They weren’t his binoculars, exactly, although she guessed it was all right for him to use them without permission. But maybe not, she thought, waiting for the man to call her number.
“Aren’t they doing birds in school?”
“Last time it was clouds.”
“Turns out I was wrong about the clouds. But they’re definitely studying birds and birdcalls and habitats,” she told the woman. “They go trekking through [REDACTED].”
She realized how much she hated to stand around with a number in her fist. She hated this regimen of assigned numbers, strictly enforced, in a confined space, with nothing at the end of the process but a small white bow-tied box of pastry.
There was an old-fashioned pencil sharpener clamped to the edge of the table in Justin’s room. She stood at the door and watched him insert each pencil into the slot and then crank the handle. He had red-and-blue combination pencils, Cedar Pointe pencils, Dixon Trimlines, vintage Eberhard Fabers. He had pencils from hotels in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. There were pencils fashioned from tree bark, rough and knotted. There were pencils from the design store of the Museum of Modern Art. He had Mirado Black Warriors. He had pencils from a SoHo shop that were inscribed along the shaft with cryptic sayings from [REDACTED].
 
It was awful, in a way, all these fragments of status washing up in some little kid’s room.
But what she loved to watch was the way he blew the microscopic shavings off the pencil point after he finished sharpening. If he were to do it all day, she’d watch all day, pencil after pencil. He’d crank and blow, crank and blow, a ritual more thorough and righteous than the formal signing of a document of state by eleven men with medals.
When he saw her watching, he said, “What?”
“I talked to Katie’s mother today. Katie and what’s-his-name. She told me about the binoculars.”
He stood and watched her, pencil in hand.
“Katie and what’s-his-name.”
“Robert,” he said.
“Her little brother Robert. And his older sister Katie. Is this something I should know about? And are you supposed to take the binoculars out of the house without permission?”
He stood and watched. He had pale hair, his father’s, and a certain sombreness of body, a restraint, his own, that gave him an uncanny discipline in games, in physical play.
“Did your father give you permission?”
He stood and watched.
“What’s so interesting about the view from that room? You can tell me that, can’t you?”
She leaned against the door, prepared to remain for three, four, five days, in the context of parental body language, or until he answered.
He moved one hand away from his body slightly, the hand without the pencil, palm up, and executed the faintest change in facial expression, causing an arched indentation between the chin and lower lip, like an old man’s mute version of the young boy’s opening remark, which was “What?”
Keith sat next to the table, left forearm placed along the near edge, hand dangling from the adjoining edge, curled into a gentle fist. He raised the hand without lifting his forearm and kept it in the air for five seconds. He did this ten times.
It was their term, “gentle fist,” the rehab center’s term, used in the instruction sheet.
He found these sessions restorative, four times a day, the wrist extensions, the ulnar deviations. These were the true countermeasures to the damage he’d suffered in the tower, in the descending chaos. It was not the MRI and not the surgery that had brought him closer to well-being. It was this modest home program, the counting of seconds, the counting of repetitions, the times of day he reserved for the exercises, the ice he applied following each set of exercises.
There were the dead and the maimed. His injury was slight, but it wasn’t the torn cartilage that was the subject of this effort. It was the chaos, the levitation of ceilings and floors, the voices choking in smoke. He sat in deep concentration, working on the hand shapes, the bend of the wrist toward the floor, the bend of the wrist toward the ceiling, the forearm flat on the table, the thumb-up configuration in certain setups, the use of the uninvolved hand to apply pressure to the involved hand. He washed his splint in warm soapy water. He did not adjust his splint without consulting the therapist. He read the instruction sheet. He curled the hand into a gentle fist.
Her mother had said it clearly, years earlier.
“There’s a certain man, an archetype. He’s a model of dependability for his male friends, all the things a friend should be, an ally and a confidant, lends money, gives advice, loyal, and so on, but sheer hell on women. Living, breathing hell. The closer a woman gets, the clearer it becomes to him that she is not one of his male friends. And the more awful it becomes for her. This is Keith. This is the man you’re going to marry.”
This is the man she marries.
He was a hovering presence now. There drifted through the rooms a sense of someone who has earned respectful attention. He was not quite returned to his body yet. Even the program of exercises he did for his postsurgical wrist seemed a little detached, four times a day, an odd set of extensions and flexions that resembled prayer in some remote northern province, among a repressed people, with periodic applications of ice. He spent time with Justin, taking him to school and picking him up, advising on homework. He wore the splint for a while, then stopped. He took the kid to the park to play catch. The kid could toss a baseball all day and be purely and inexhaustibly happy, unmarked by sin, anyone’s, down the ages. Throw and catch. She watched them in a field not far from the museum, into the sinking sun. When Keith did a kind of ball trick, using the right hand, the undamaged one, to flip the ball onto the back of the hand and then jerk the arm forward, propelling the ball backward along the forearm before knocking it into the air with his elbow and then catching it backhanded, she saw a man she’d never known before.
He began to think into the day, into the minute. It was being here in the apartment, alone for extended periods, that made this happen, being away from routine stimulus, all the streaming forms of office discourse. Things seemed still, clearer to the eye, oddly, in ways he didn’t understand. He began to see what he was doing. He noticed things, all the small lost strokes of a day or a minute, how he licked his thumb and used it to lift a bread crumb off the plate and put it idly in his mouth. Only it wasn’t so idle anymore. Nothing seemed familiar, being here, in a family again, and he felt strange to himself, or always had, but it was different now, because he was watching.
There were the walks to school with Justin and the walks back home alone, or somewhere else, just walking, and then he picked up the kid at school and it was back home again. There was a contained elation in these times, a feeling that was half hidden, something he knew but just barely, a whisper of self-disclosure.
The kid was trying to speak in monosyllables only, for long stretches. This was something his class was doing, a serious game designed to teach the children something about the structure of words and the discipline required to frame clear thoughts. Lianne said, half seriously, that it sounded totalitarian.
“It helps me go slow when I think,” Justin said to his father, measuring each word, noting the syllable count.
Keith as well was going slow, easing inward. He used to want to fly out of self-awareness, day and night, a body in raw motion. Now he finds himself drifting into spells of reflection, thinking not in units, hard and linked, but only absorbing what comes, drawing things out of time and memory and into some dim space that bears his collected experience. Or he stands and looks. He stands at the window and sees what’s happening in the street. Something is always happening, even on the quietest days and deep into night, if you stand awhile and look.
There were the walks to and from school, the meals he cooked, something he’d rarely done in the year and a half of their separation because it had made him feel like the last man alive, breaking eggs for dinner.
 
“We go home now,” Justin said.
She was back from an early-morning run and stood sweating by the kitchen window, drinking water from a one-litre bottle and watching Keith eat breakfast.
“You’re one of those madwomen running in the streets. Run around the reservoir.”
“You think we look crazier than men.”
“Only in the streets.”
“I like the streets. This time of morning, there’s something about the city, down by the river, streets half empty, cars blasting by on the Drive.”
“Breathe deeply.”
“I like running alongside the cars on the Drive.”
“Take deep breaths,” he said. “Let the fumes swirl into your lungs.”
“I like the fumes. I like the breeze from the river.”
“Run naked,” he said.
“You do it, I’ll do it.”
“I’ll do it if the kid does it,” he said.
Justin was in his room, a Saturday, putting the last touches, last pokes of color, onto a portrait he’d been doing, in crayon, of his grandmother. Either that or drawing a picture of a bird, for school, which reminded her of something.
“He takes the binoculars over to the Siblings’. Any idea why?”
“They’re searching the skies.”
“For what?”
“Planes. One of them, I think it was the girl.”
“Katie.”
“Katie claims she saw the plane that hit tower one. She says she was home from school, sick, standing at the window when the plane flew by.”
The building where the Siblings lived was known to some as the Godzilla Apartments, or simply as the Godzilla. It was forty stories or so in an area of town houses and other structures of modest height and it created its own weather systems, with strong currents of air that sometimes sheared down the face of the building and knocked old people to the pavement.
“Home sick. Do I believe that?”
“I think they’re on the twenty-seventh floor,” he said.
“Looking west across the park. This much is true.”
“Did the plane fly down over the park?”
“Maybe the park, maybe the river,” she said. “And maybe she was home sick and maybe she made it up.”
“Either way.”
“Either way, you’re saying, they’re looking for more planes.”
“Waiting for it to happen again.”
“That scares me,” she said.
“This time with a pair of binoculars to help them make the sighting.”
“That scares the hell out of me. God, there’s something so awful about that. Damn kids with their goddam twisted powers of imagination.”
She walked over to the table and picked half a strawberry out of his cereal bowl. Then she sat across from him, thinking and chewing.
Finally, she said, “The only thing I got out of Justin—the towers did not collapse.”
“I told him they did.”
“So did I,” she said.
“They were hit but did not collapse. That’s what he says.”
“He didn’t see it on TV. I didn’t want him to see it. But I told him they came down. And he seemed to absorb it. But then, I don’t know.”
“He knows they came down, whatever he says about it.”
“He has to know, don’t you think? And he knows you were there.”
“We talked about it,” Keith said. “But only once.”
“What did he say?”
“Not much. And neither did I.”
“They’re searching the skies.”
“That’s right,” he said.
“This is what we get for putting a protective distance between children and news events.”
“Except we didn’t put a distance, not really,” he said.
She looked at him.
“Why are you still here?”
She said this in a tone of gentlest curiosity.
“Are you planning to stay? Because I think this is something we need to talk about,” she said. “I’ve forgotten how to talk to you. This is the longest talk we’ve had.”
“You did it better than anybody. Talk to me. Maybe that was the problem.”
“I guess I’ve unlearned it. Because I sit here thinking we have so much to say.”
“We don’t have so much to say. We used to say everything, all the time. We examined everything, all the questions, all the issues.”
“All right.”
“It practically killed us.”
“All right. But is it possible? Here’s my question,” she said. “Is it possible you and I are done with conflict? You know what I mean. The everyday friction. The every-word, every-breath schedule we were on before we split. Is it possible that’s over? We don’t need that anymore. We can live without it. Am I right?”
“We’re ready to sink into our little lives,” he said.
They sat in a taxi going downtown and began to clutch each other, kissing and groping. She said, in urgent murmurs, It’s a movie, it’s a movie. At traffic lights, people crossing the street stopped to watch, two or three, seeming briefly to float above the windows, and sometimes only one. The others just crossed, those who didn’t give a damn.
In the Indian restaurant the man at the podium said, “We do not seat incomplete tables.”
In the beginning, she washed his clothes in a separate load. She had no idea why she did this. It was like he was dead.
She listened to what he said and let him know she was listening, mind and body, because listening is what would save them this time, keep them from falling into distortion and rancor.
What was ordinary was not more ordinary than usual, or less.
This was the man who would not submit to her need for probing intimacy, over-intimacy, the urge to ask, examine, delve, draw things out, trade secrets, tell everything. It was a need that had the body in it—hands, feet, genitals, scummy odors, clotted dirt—even if it was all talk or sleepy murmur. She wanted to absorb everything, childlike, the dust of stray sensations, whatever she could breathe in from other people’s pores. She used to think she was other people. Other people have truer lives.
It’s a movie, she kept saying, his hand in her pants, saying it, a moan in the shape of words, and at traffic lights people watched, a few, and the driver watched, lights or not, eyes gliding across the rearview mirror.
But then she might be wrong about what was ordinary. Maybe nothing was. Maybe there was a deep fold in the grain of things, the way things pass through the mind, the way time swings in the mind, which is the only place it meaningfully exists.
She read newspaper profiles of the dead, every one that was printed. Not to read them, every one, would have been an offense, a violation of responsibility and trust. But she also read them because she had to, out of some need that she did not try to interpret.
After the first time they made love, he was in the bathroom, at first light, and she got up to dress for her morning run but then pressed herself naked to the full-length mirror, face turned, hands raised to roughly head level. She pressed her body to the glass, eyes shut, and stayed for a long moment, nearly collapsed against the cool surface, abandoning herself to it. Then she put on her shorts and top and was lacing her shoes when he came out of the bathroom, clean-shaven, and saw the fogged marks of her face, hands, breasts, and thighs stamped on the mirror.
 
Every time she saw a videotape of the planes she moved a finger toward the power button on the remote. Then she kept on watching. The second plane coming out of that ice-blue sky, this was the footage that entered the body, that seemed to run beneath her skin, the fleeting sprint that carried lives and histories, theirs and hers, everyone’s, into some other distance, out beyond the towers.
The skies she retained in memory were dramas of cloud and sea storm, or the electric sheen before summer thunder in the city, always belonging to the energies of sheer weather, of what was out there, air masses, water vapor, westerlies. This was different, a clear sky that carried human terror in those streaking aircraft, first one, then the other, the force of men’s intent. Every helpless desperation set against the sky, voices crying to God, and how awful to imagine this, God’s name on the tongues of killers and victims both, first one plane and then the other, the one that was nearly cartoon human, with flashing eyes and teeth, the second plane, the south tower.
He watched with her one time only. She knew she’d never felt so close to someone, watching the planes cross the sky. Standing by the wall, he reached toward the chair and took her hand. She bit her lip and watched. They would all be dead, passengers and crew, and thousands in the towers dead, and she felt it in her body, a deep pause, and thought, There he is, unbelievably, in one of those towers, and now his hand was on hers, in pale light, as though to console her for his dying.
He said, “It still looks like an accident, the first one. Even from this distance, way outside the thing, how many days later, I’m standing here thinking it’s an accident.”
“Because it has to be.”
“It has to be,” he said.
“The way the camera sort of shows surprise.”
“But only the first one.”
“Only the first,” she said.
“The second plane, by the time the second plane appears,” he said, “we’re all a little older and wiser.” 

