NIGHT TRAIN TO FRANKFURT
By Marisa Silver

They were going to boil Dorothy’s blood. Take it out, heat it, put it back in. The cancer would be gone. Well, that wasn’t exactly it. The treatment had a more formal-sounding name, thermosomethingorother, a word that was both trustworthy (because you recognized the prefix) and lofty, so that you didn’t really question it, knew you were too thick to really understand whatever explanation might be given you. “They’re going to boil my blood” is what it came down to, and this was what Dorothy had told her daughter, [REDACTED], when she called her from [REDACTED]. There were statistics, affidavits. There was a four-color brochure from the clinic in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], printed in three languages. As they waited for the train in the [REDACTED] station, [REDACTED] studied the pamphlet’s fonts and graphics. A frequent dupe of advertising herself—how many depilatories and night creams had she bought over the years, and at what expense?—[REDACTED] understood the significance behind the choice of peaceful, healing blue over charged, emotional red, the softening elegance of the italicized quotes from Adèle de Chavigny, a woman from [REDACTED] who had not only survived having her blood boiled but had gone on to live a life of graceful transcendence. There were no concrete images of the clinic itself, no pictures of whatever this boiling machine might look like. [REDACTED] imagined huge vats like those in a brewery—wide, clear tubes with viscous, viral blood moving sluggishly in one direction, while bright, animated, healthy blood rushed eagerly back toward the patient. On the roof of the brewery, she imagined enormous chimneys expelling the sweet-sour-smelling residue of defeated disease into the air. Poof, poof, the smokestacks would go, and all the German townsfolk (yes, in her fantasy they were wearing lederhosen and small peaked caps) would look up, proud to know that, in their town, death had been conquered.
“Fairy stories,” Dorothy would have said dismissively, had [REDACTED] shared such an idea with her, as she had so often as a child, forever irritating Dorothy with her impractical mind. [REDACTED] had been careful not to lob Dorothy’s criticism back at her when she’d announced this latest and most ridiculous plan to save her life. But Dorothy’s response to her own illness had been perversely uncharacteristic from the start.
Most important, [REDACTED] realized, fingering the brochure again once they were on the train, their bags stowed away in the racks above them, the pamphlet showed no images of the sick—a choice made, [REDACTED] was sure, to deëmphasize the questionable science behind the treatment. It would be impossible to look at a photograph of someone as ill as, say, her fifty-seven-year-old mother and think that this faintly medieval idea, one that brought to mind leeches and exorcisms, could succeed where modern medicine had failed, or, in Dorothy’s case, where modern medicine had never been given the chance to go. The brochure talked about “renewal” and “refreshment,” and read more like a promotion for an overly expensive spa, of the kind that [REDACTED] had read about in fashion and travel magazines.
She let the brochure fall to her lap. Her mother was sleeping, lying on her side across the opposite three seats, her knees pulled up to her chest, her child-sized feet peeking out from beneath her maroon down coat. It had been a good idea to splurge on the whole compartment, despite Dorothy’s protests about useless expenditure (they had taken the train at Dorothy’s insistence, in order to save money) and her usual vague, disapproving intimations that [REDACTED]’s “new” life in [REDACTED], the one she had been living for ten years now—ever since she’d left the conservatory at twenty-two—was somehow profligate. It did [REDACTED] no good to explain that her motley collection of jobs—as a low-level administrative staffer and occasional page-turner for the [REDACTED] Philharmonic, a piano teacher to private-school children, and a pianist on the High Holy Days at Temple Beth Hillel—netted barely enough to cover her expenses in the folly of an apartment she’d rented in the Hollywood Hills, which could be accessed only by an elevator tower or by a strenuous hike up a dirt-and-scrub path, and which had been featured in a famous movie from the seventies that she could never remember the name of, even when people reminded her of it over and over, exclaiming at her proximity to history as though she were living in a house once occupied by George Washington. The very fact that [REDACTED] drove a car, albeit a ten-year-old Nissan, was proof enough to Dorothy that she had embraced an ideological lack of frugality. The few times that Dorothy had allowed [REDACTED] to fly her to [REDACTED], [REDACTED] had found herself obscuring things from her mother, like the fact that she had, on a whim, reupholstered her living-room couch, although the original material was fine, and certainly not as threadbare as her mother’s valiant collection of chairs and couches, which stood in her [REDACTED] apartment like the stoic survivors of some kind of rending disaster. Of course, as a child and even as a teen-ager, [REDACTED] had never noticed the fraying tablecloths or chipped china, had been comforted by the absolute predictability of her home, by the way “The Painted Bird” continued to occupy exactly the same place on the bookshelf as it had when she’d first discovered it, at age eleven, and stared, troubled and thrilled, at the grotesque and vaguely sexual cover art. A button placed in an ashtray when she was seven was sure to be there still when she was eight, nine, ten, adapted to its new habitat, and the ashtray itself adapted to its inhabitant, so that it was now “the place where the red button is” rather than anything useful for smokers. It was only as an adult, returning for visits, that she began to feel quietly dismayed by her mother’s thrift, as if it indicated something disturbing. Was Dorothy refusing the future? Was this the reason, too, that she had forsworn conventional treatment for her disease? Did she mean to die?
[REDACTED] looked around the compartment. She had been right to reserve the entire thing without telling her mother. A first-class sleeper would have been too risky; her mother might not have even boarded the train. [REDACTED] had hoped that Dorothy, upon entering the second-class accommodations and finding no other passengers there, would simply assume that they were the recipients of a bit of good luck. But, of course, Dorothy figured things out the minute [REDACTED] closed the door behind them. The only reason she consented to this act of economic irresponsibility was that she was too ill to fight back.
The flight from [REDACTED] had been exhausting. As the hours across the ocean wore on, five-foot-one Dorothy had sunk farther and farther into her seat, until she resembled a child whose feet waggled impatiently above the broken-crayon-and-mini-pretzel-strewn floor. [REDACTED] had noticed the flight attendants casting worried glances at her mother whenever they passed, and she knew that they were quietly wondering if they were going to have a corpse on their hands before they reached [REDACTED]. She imagined that there was a protocol for this kind of emergency: surely they would remove the dead body from the sight of the other passengers—perhaps lay her mother on the floor of the galley at the back of the plane, cover her with some of those too thin blankets, or roll her into one of those ingenious storage places airplanes specialized in.
 
But what was the protocol for taking your mother to have her blood boiled?
In the low light of the train compartment, Dorothy’s face shone. She had grown so thin lately; her skin stretched tautly over her nose and her cheekbones like a sheet on a well-made bed. In the last few months, [REDACTED] had become intimate with her mother in a way that made them both uncomfortable. During her increasingly frequent visits to [REDACTED], she had bathed Dorothy, helped her to sit on the toilet, pared her thick, yellowing toenails, then stroked them with the bright-red discount-store polish that Dorothy had been faithful to all these years. This breaking down of the customary distance that had existed between mother and daughter for decades made it more and more difficult for [REDACTED] now to view her mother as a living thing rather than as a collection of body parts and functions. But perhaps that was a necessary by-product of giving care; [REDACTED] knew that if she allowed herself to look at the larger picture of her mother’s demise she would be overwhelmed by thoughts of needs, both met and not, and that she risked succumbing to a childlike terror of being left alone.
When called on to be a page-turner at the Philharmonic, [REDACTED] found that if she concentrated on one note, and then the next, instead of letting her mind take in the whole sweep of the piece, she never failed to turn the page at the right time. It was only when she lost sight of the specifics, when she let her mind range backward and forward across the music like a low-flying bird, that she made a mistake. She’d begin by thinking about the music—what choices she might make in the speed of a diminuendo or the attack on a coda—and then, inevitably, she’d get trapped in an eddy of memory about the moment, or series of moments, that had led to her decision to leave the conservatory, to walk away from the possibility, no matter how far-fetched, of being the person who was now seated at the piano so close to her that she could hear his or her breaths and grunts and soft guttural moans, as if she were standing at the open doorway to a bedroom while the pianist was making love. And then, with her mind hijacked by so many thoughts, she would be a beat too late or too early with the turn, and suffer the annoyed glance of the pianist, and carry the mistake with her for days.
When, a week earlier, [REDACTED] had told her nominal boyfriend, Nathan, about her mother’s decision to go to [REDACTED] for the treatment, he had almost rolled his eyes. [REDACTED] had been grateful for his blunt skepticism, because it allowed her to take the opposite position with a kind of self-righteousness that she would not otherwise have been able to muster. She had proclaimed, if not a belief in, at least a tolerance for this latest of her mother’s nonmedical solutions to “the cancer problem,” as Dorothy referred to it—as if it were a tangled political issue that might be written about on the editorial page of her beloved [REDACTED] Times, and then hotly discussed with the butcher or the man at the shoe-repair place when she went out each day on her brisk round of errands. “She’s done her research,” [REDACTED] told Nathan, who sat at the kitchen table of her hilltop apartment—he had moved in a year earlier, after two years of dating. “They’ve had good results.”
Nathan did not respond, because he was not a foolish man. Six months had passed since [REDACTED] had discovered that he was having an affair, and their current détente was built on the understanding that he would never again be able to speak freely. A year before, Nathan would have thrown back statistics of his own; he was in immunology research at Children’s Hospital, and had a dedicated disrespect for the alternative medical arts. Over the years, he had listened with slack-jawed disbelief when [REDACTED] had explained that her friends Wendy and Terry were postponing vaccinations for little Mandy and Timmo because of studies linking the shots to developmental delays. “Do you know how many kids die each year from whooping cough?” he had exclaimed in frustration. When Wendy had proudly told him that she’d cured Timmo’s conjunctivitis by squeezing her own breast milk into his eye, Nathan had not been able to restrain himself. “Right from your tit?” he’d responded, as if Wendy had exposed Timmo to porn. [REDACTED] felt a momentary pleasure now as she watched Nathan swallow his criticism of her mother’s new gambit; he was no longer sure of himself in their relationship.
She had taken him back because he had apologized, begged, cried, and apologized again. But, in the current atmosphere of their relationship, he had no idea what concessions to his character she would continue to make, and what could cause her to send him back down that ancient elevator tower while she tossed his clothing from her balcony to the street below, white button-down shirts and briefs falling at his feet like shot birds. Could he continue to organize the papers she left scattered across the table into neat piles set at right angles to one another? Could he continue to indulge his need to keep the refrigerator clear of any food that was even approaching its use-by date? Still, although she had gained the upper hand in the relationship, her sense of victory was overshadowed by the knowledge that she no longer really had a boyfriend, only a set of misgivings and recriminations decorated as a handsome enough, smart enough, bearded, bespectacled man with delicate hands, shiny from too much washing. The loneliness that had descended on her in the aftermath of the crisis was so palpable that [REDACTED] often thought of it as a person. It stood by her side as she washed the dishes, or helped Marina Delgado, her best and most dedicated student, struggle through “The Well-Tempered Clavier” while she half listened, half watched the dust motes hanging in the air, lit by the afternoon light coming through the louvred windows of her apartment. The loneliness followed her, judged her, pointed out which of herirritating habits had finally driven Nathan to do what he had done. She was not sure why she hadn’t kicked him out in the end, except that she had begun to look forward to the outsized emotions of his entreaties, the late-night talks, the tears. She knew that the high drama was silly, but it reminded her of the kind of person she had once been—a girl who would weep when her rendition of a Beethoven adagio did not live up to the version that played in her imagination, a girl who would weep because perfection was too difficult a goal to aim for and too crushing to fall short of.
What [REDACTED] had really felt, after hearing Dorothy’s description of the blood-heating regimen, was not skepticism but pity. But she would never have said this aloud, not only because she didn’t want to give Nathan the satisfaction but because she knew that it was horrible to have such feelings toward her mother, whom she loved—if that was the right word for the mixture of frustration and gratitude and hatred and tolerance and surprising, intractable, illogical attachment she felt for Dorothy, who was as deeply and inescapably rooted inside [REDACTED] as her own fractured heart.
 
Dr. Halverson, Dorothy’s purported oncologist and an old suitor from her City College days, had recently pronounced the disease so far gone that the risks of conventional treatment, if Dorothy were to change her mind, would be more deleterious than the risks of doing nothing.
“You mean my risk of dying is now no better than my risk of dying?” Dorothy replied.
“Dodi,” Dr. Halverson sighed, shaking his head at her lack of sentiment, an atavistic admiration dancing around his lips.
[REDACTED] had been in the examination room when he broke the news. She could not figure out why Dorothy continued to consult Dr. Halverson, or why he agreed to see her, despite her long-term resistance to his advice. What was the point of all those unfilled prescriptions for lab tests? Why did he continue to let her waste his time? Maybe he, like [REDACTED], was so mystified by Dorothy’s aberrant choice of the esoteric over science that he didn’t quite believe it, and was waiting for Dorothy to finally break down, reclaim her lifelong set-jawed, unforgiving gaze on life, and start the do-si-do of chemo and radiation. Dorothy, this short, mouthy woman from Bayonne who had marched for women’s rights and against [REDACTED], hidden in the crowds while her homemade posters floated in the air above her as though held aloft by a ghost, had never once, in fifty-seven years, shown an interest in anything “alternative,” or even philosophical. [REDACTED] had been six when her father died. She asked how long it took a person to climb to Heaven. Dorothy took [REDACTED]’s face in her hands and said, “Not Heaven, honey. That’s just a fairy tale.” How frustrating it must have been for Dr. Halverson to watch Dorothy now, placing her faith in Dr. Hsia and his stinking herbs in Chinatown, or in Paul Romero and his needles in Park Slope, or in the water-therapy clinic in D.C. [REDACTED] admired the doctor’s delicacy. He never belittled Dorothy’s choices, and in these past months, when Dorothy had experienced her first truly frightening bouts of pain, he had visited the apartment as often as he could.
His patience stood in sharp contrast to Nathan’s disparagement. “It’s her body,” [REDACTED] had said to Nathan, in defense of the [REDACTED] plan. The word “body” sank to the ground the minute she said it, weighted, as it was, with the idea of his body and his desires, which had managed so casually to reject hers. She felt suddenly conscious of her thighs wrapped tightly (too tightly?) in denim, her small breasts bolstered ineffectually by some newfangled underwire bra she’d bought online. She had never had smooth skin—had picked and squeezed it too much as a teen-ager, despite her mother’s warnings. Was that it? Did Nathan’s other woman have small pores? Nathan shrugged, smiled, then scrolled through five other expressions, trying to find the one that would cause him the least harm. [REDACTED] was humiliated all over again. That was the problem with his transgression, she thought: he had taken so many words away from her. Besides “body,” there was “candy” (the woman’s ridiculous name), there was “desert” (one of the places they’d trysted), and whole sentences like “What are you thinking about?,” which was as dangerous as stepping in front of a speeding car.
The train made a stop at a local station. It was dark outside, and shadowy figures wearing heavy overcoats against the midwinter cold moved on and off the platform. Dorothy’s eyes opened. She stared across the compartment toward her daughter, but [REDACTED] could tell that Dorothy was not seeing, that she was suspended somewhere between her pill-induced sleep and a fuzzy semi-alertness. It made her feel weak to see her mother hovering helplessly in this state. As much as she hated to admit it, [REDACTED] counted on her mother’s decisiveness, her unwillingness to wander around in the gray areas of emotion. When [REDACTED], having finished with middling results in too many competitions, and having taken a good hard look at where she stood among her musical peers, made the decision to give up her dream of becoming a concert pianist, Dorothy had said, “That’s sensible,” as though she’d been waiting patiently for [REDACTED] to get the answer right for years. [REDACTED] suddenly felt the lie behind all those performances and recitals; she had thought her mother her ally, when in fact Dorothy had been tapping her foot the whole time, waiting for [REDACTED] to wise up.
[REDACTED] regarded her mother a moment longer. The blue of her eyes was rheumy, indistinct. Her mouth hung open in a way that [REDACTED] knew she would hate. A few strands of hair were stuck to her dry lips. Dorothy had imparted several important pieces of advice to [REDACTED] in her youth, one of which was “Don’t hold your mouth open—it makes you look stupid.” [REDACTED] was also to wear a bra even in bed, in a war against future droop, and never to hook her hair behind her ears if she didn’t want them to stick out. Dorothy’s advice was like that—warnings on how to avoid a dark, ugly inevitability. So, in reality, it wasn’t advice at all, only an acknowledgment of [REDACTED]’s ultimate inefficacy in the face of the Cards You’ve Been Dealt. Dorothy’s teeth seemed yellower than [REDACTED] remembered. But everything about her seemed yellow now, like the pages of an old library book.
“God,” Dorothy said, breathlessly, and, for a moment, [REDACTED] wondered if she was having a conversation with that Man she professed not to believe in. But Dorothy’s eyes were focussed now. She had come to. “Where are we?”
“Nowhere,” [REDACTED] said, looking out the window into the darkness. “We just passed a town. You should sleep some more, Mom. We have a ways to go.” She regretted this suggestion. Her mother was cunning enough to know when she was not wanted.
“Whenever I sleep, I feel like I’m rehearsing for something,” Dorothy said, attempting to sit up. [REDACTED] stood and helped Dorothy settle against the train seat. She smelled of the tuberose per-fume she’d used her whole life, that and the turning odor of the body in decline. [REDACTED] wondered when this happened—at what point the body’s smells could no longer be masked by deodorants or flowery soaps, at what point they would stop taking no for an answer.
“How do you feel?” [REDACTED] asked, sitting back down, across from her mother. She herself had barely recovered from the eight hours on the plane from [REDACTED]. She felt clammy and bloated from having eaten too many meals in too short a time. She wanted to strip, have a bath, evacuate, start over again.
“I feel like shit, darling,” Dorothy said.
“Are you hungry?” [REDACTED] asked.
“No.”
“You should eat.” [REDACTED] looked into her purse. “I have a granola bar. And that turkey sandwich from the plane.”
“That will kill me. What is it, ten hours old?”
“You’ll need your strength.” [REDACTED] held out the granola bar.
“Let’s put away the platitude playbook, sweetheart,” Dorothy said. “If there’s one thing I know about lately, it’s my dear, disastrous body. And if it eats right now it will upchuck all over this lovely compartment you’ve wasted your money on.”
 
[REDACTED] studied the pattern of veins webbed across her mother’s cheeks. She thought about La Brea Woman. A model of the dwarfish prehistoric woman was posed in a glass case at a museum on Wilshire. She appeared clad in an animal pelt, her long black hair modestly covering her naked plaster breasts. But, then, through a trick of light and mirrors, her outfit, as well as her skin, fell away, so that you could see her knobby skeleton. [REDACTED] had visited the museum when she first moved to [REDACTED], thrilled by the city’s oddities in the way, she now knew, so many new immigrants were—as if kitsch could justify their decision to move to this patently unglamorous place.
“You make it awfully hard, Mom,” [REDACTED] said, finally.
“Oh, I’m sorry,” Dorothy sighed, her expression genuinely penitent. “But for some reason having cancer gives everyone else the feeling they can order you around. Like you don’t know what’s good for yourself, now that you’ve been stupid enough to contract this disease.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Don’t apologize.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Don’t— ”
But [REDACTED] was smiling, and Dorothy’s eyes lit up at the memory. Dorothy had despised [REDACTED]’s habit, when she was younger, of apologizing for everything and everyone around her—which was, in itself, a reaction, [REDACTED] had begun to think, to her mother’s uncomfortable insistence on truthfulness. After months of [REDACTED]’s complaining about a certain irrationally mean science teacher, Dorothy had walked right up to the woman at an open house—a woman who was half a foot taller than she—and asked her if she was experiencing menopause. [REDACTED] had spent much of her youth trying to position herself at a physical and psychological ten-foot remove from her mother.
She put the granola bar back in her purse. They were good together this way, teasing each other. When [REDACTED] had discovered the affair, she flew to [REDACTED]. It was a strange impulse—to seek out her mother for emotional succor—and she was almost frightened when she arrived at the apartment, certain that her mother, never a baker of chocolate-chip cookies or a soother of feverish foreheads, would only make her feel worse. She had spent the weekend in an old Lanz nightgown that her mother had saved, standing at the open door of the refrigerator with a hand on her hip, pouting. Dorothy had been a wonder of humor, insisting that they Google “Nathan’s girl,” as she referred to her, and, together, mother and daughter had stared at a picture of the absurdly named doctor with the dumbfounded awe one feels in the presence of a masterpiece. Candi was pretty enough, with a lustrous mane of brown hair and the kind of ethnic looks that had been smoothed out by cross-fertilization or plastic surgery. She was obviously younger than [REDACTED]. But, before [REDACTED] could fall into despondency, Dorothy found fault with the set of the woman’s eyes, her thin lips, her ironed hair. She could tell that the woman had a “big tush,” despite the fact that the image on the computer screen showed her only from the neck up. Her dissection made [REDACTED] laugh and feel defended, full of gratitude.
The dim shapes of small villages appeared against the night sky like phantoms, only to disappear into nearly unarticulated darkness. An occasional bright constellation spread across the land, signalling a town of more significance. If she squinted, [REDACTED] could make out church steeples, the dark spill of homes on a hillside, and large, low factory buildings. She could have been anywhere in the world. She had never been to [REDACTED] before, and now she was seeing the country only as geographic semaphore.
“I need to pee,” Dorothy said.
[REDACTED] stood up immediately, glad to be necessary. She helped her mother out of their compartment, and, together, they awkwardly negotiated the narrow corridor. [REDACTED] held on to her mother as she opened the bathroom door, careful not to let her lose her balance as the train lurched from side to side. Dorothy was as light and fragile as papier-mâché. [REDACTED] closed the bathroom door behind them, reached past her mother, and flipped up the metal toilet lid, then steadied Dorothy as she loosened her slacks and eased them down her hips. Dorothy had always been private with her body; [REDACTED] could not remember ever having seen her naked before the disease had turned her into a reluctant exhibitionist.
“I think I can take it from here,” Dorothy said.
[REDACTED] stepped back into the corridor and shut the door. She leaned against the cold windows, trying to get the image of her mother’s thighs out of her mind, the way the folds of skin sloped gently toward her pubic area like small waves rippling onto a barren shore. Five minutes later, Dorothy came out of the bathroom, exhausted by the effort. The door swung shut behind her, and she leaned against it as she zipped and buttoned her slacks. Embarrassed, [REDACTED] tried to shield Dorothy from the view of the few strangers who lingered farther down the corridor. Her discomfort soon gave way to sadness, as she realized the degree to which the disease had stripped her mother of the identity that had got her through so much in her life, and with such grace.
“It’s like a prison camp in there,” Dorothy said. “You’d think they’d make it a little bigger just to avoid the innuendo.”
[REDACTED] moved to help her.
“I’m fine,” Dorothy said, reaching to either side of the corridor and unsteadily making her way back to their compartment.
[REDACTED] realized that her arms were still extended toward her mother, as if she could somehow conduct Dorothy to a safe landing. She lowered her hands, feeling ridiculous. Her mother had eschewed help all her life, had put herself through City College by working night shifts as a secretary. After she married [REDACTED]’s father, she’d helped him open his dental practice, running his office, sometimes masquerading as his assistant when he could afford only a part-time girl. He’d died just when his practice had grown large enough to be worth selling, and even then, despite the reasonable income from the sale, Dorothy had continued to work as the office manager for the new dentist, never for a minute giving in to any maudlin emotion about another man’s filling her dear departed husband’s white soft-soled shoes. She never thought to remarry. “Oh, I did that already,” she said simply, when [REDACTED] raised the subject, as if marriage were a step in a recipe that you would not want to repeat.
“Would you like me to read to you?” [REDACTED] asked, once they were back in their seats.
“What have you got?”
[REDACTED] dug eagerly into her bag. “Vogue. People. Neruda.”
Dorothy smirked. “That’s cheap, sweetheart.”
“You love Neruda.”
“Are we searching for my epitaph?” Dorothy said.
“That’s unfair,” [REDACTED] said, with the requisite amount of hurt in her tone. The truth was that she had thought about what to read at her mother’s funeral and had made the private decision that it would be Neruda. Though Dorothy was not a fan of poetry and its vagaries in general, Neruda was the one poet she had gone out of her way to read. But was this why [REDACTED] had grabbed the book from the shelf on her way out the door in [REDACTED]? Was she this fumbling, this obvious? She began to put the book away.
 
“Read it,” Dorothy said.
“No, it’s all right.”
“I want to hear it.”
“We’ll read something else,” she said, pulling out the Vogue and reading from the cover. “ ‘The New Stripes.’ ”
“Read the Neruda,” Dorothy said flatly.
[REDACTED] checked her mother’s face to see on which side of sarcasm she had taken up residence. Dorothy smiled enigmatically; it was the same inscrutable expression [REDACTED] remembered from her youth, from, for instance, the day she’d smoked marijuana in the apartment while her mother was at work and then tried to cover it up with some laughably ineffective incense. Dorothy had smiled then, too, saying nothing. But when [REDACTED] woke up the next morning she found a note taped to the bathroom mirror. “Smart people are not necessarily decent,” it said, and [REDACTED] felt as though her mother had reached inside her body and squeezed her heart.
She opened the book and began to read:
**{: .break one} ** Tonight I can write the saddest lines. Write, for example, “The night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distance.” The night wind revolves in the sky and sings. Tonight I can write the saddest lines. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too. Through nights like this one I held her in my arms. I kissed her again and again under the endless sky. **
She stopped.
“Mmm. Go on,” Dorothy said. Her eyes were closed.
“I’m tired,” [REDACTED] said.
Dorothy opened her eyes and studied her daughter. [REDACTED] looked down at the book. Her tears made the words into a bleary confusion of black smudges. “Oh, shit,” she said, trying to banish her sadness with ugly words, words that her mother had taught her never to use, because they were public admissions that you could not find a more exact, more intelligent way to say what you had to say. “I’m so fucked.”
“Or not. As the case may be,” Dorothy said.
[REDACTED] looked up. “Ew,” she said.
Dorothy shrugged, delighted.
“Remember when you hired that Cinderella to come to my birthday party?” [REDACTED] said, trying to change the subject. “I thought she really was Cinderella. TheCinderella. Come all the way from, you know, wherever, just for my party. You made her take off her wig at the end to show me that she was just some out-of-work actress.”
“I always thought there was something evil about those parents who carry on about the tooth fairy and then tell stories about how darling their gullible children are. I don’t believe in it.”
“You have to believe in something,” [REDACTED] said, distractedly.
Dorothy did not respond.
“What do you believe in, Mom?”
Dorothy eyed her warily. “Is this one of these before-you-go questions?”
“It’s just a question. I’d like to know.”
Dorothy turned to look out the dark window. “Well, turns out I’m tired, too,” she said, closing her eyes.
The last Philharmonic concert had been a near disaster. The Brazilian pianist on the bill had cancelled at the last minute, due to illness, and a replacement had been called in. The woman, an American, was young, maybe only two or three years older than [REDACTED], but she had a good résumé, had recorded and performed with major symphonies—all the stuff of a strong career on an upward trajectory. The rehearsals had gone well, and the woman was full of humor with the conductor and the orchestra, and even with [REDACTED], sweetly self-deprecating about her need to have the score in front of her, although she knew the piece by heart and had performed it before. “You’ll be my security blanket,” she said to [REDACTED], who had been surprised by the intimacy of the remark; she was not usually addressed, except on issues that concerned the performance itself, the pianists explaining their particular taste in the timing of the page-turning, how close or far away they wanted [REDACTED] to sit. The piece was one that [REDACTED] had studied but never performed, and during rehearsal she felt her fingers moving lightly on her thighs. Studying the music a few nights earlier at the upright in her apartment, she had tried to make her way through it, and had been pleased that she could actually make whole passages nearly coherent. Nathan had come out of the bedroom to listen to her, and had applauded when she left off in the middle of a movement, feeling suddenly exposed, as though she were appearing naked before him for the first time.
“No, go on,” Nathan said.
She shook her head, her face flushing. “It’s difficult.”
“It sounded great.”
She looked at him, trying to suss out his strategy, but his face was wide open with surprise and pleasure. She stood up from the piano stool and went to him. He took her in his arms and she stood with him for a minute or two, realizing how refreshing it was to be with a man who did not think of her as a failure, the way she imagined so many of the musicians she knew must, the way she tried not to think of herself. He was nice that way, Nathan was. He sat in the living room along with the parents and grandparents of her students on recital afternoons, clapping loudly and, afterward, dissecting each student’s performance with her, rejoicing in the children’s small victories, wincing sympathetically at the memory of their bumbles. He took her seriously, even when she found it hard to do the same.
On the evening of the concert, [REDACTED] sat in her chair by the piano, wearing one of her two black concert dresses, subdued and prudish enough not to overshadow the artist; her appearance and movements needed to be so unremarkable as to be practically invisible. This suited her, this negation. It was the only way she could think about herself in relation to music now: as its shadow, its stalker. The pianist adjusted her own deep-red gown, its sleeves netted with rhinestones that would pick up the light and accentuate the hard, swift work of her arms; she adjusted her seat, tossed her loose hair behind her shoulders. [REDACTED] always enjoyed the feeling of tense excitement right before a concert began—it was one of the few times in life that you could be sure you were on the verge of pleasure. It was like facing into a giant wave and then allowing it to take you. The pianist made her opening attack with a kind of fury that made [REDACTED]’s spine shiver. With that flourish, she announced to the conductor and the orchestra that she was going to step things up. She was going to make sure that the audience, disappointed by the program insert, came away grateful for the illness of the replaced performer. She was going to own the piece so completely that no one would remember that it wasn’t rightfully hers.
Ten minutes in, however, something happened, something imperceptible to anyone but [REDACTED] and the pianist; it was like a skipped heartbeat—the woman’s neck stiffened, and she began to peer at the music where before she had largely ignored it. [REDACTED]’s breath caught high in her chest. She felt as light-headed as she had when she called Nathan’s hotel room at a conference in Austin and heard the voice of a woman in the background, followed by Nathan’s sharp “No!” And then the silence, full of his miserable inability to take back the mistake; it had been like an unwitting step off a cliff.
 
The pianist’s first slip came midway down a page—a second B-flat where there should have been an A. She kept going, and [REDACTED] was careful not to glance up; she wanted to make it appear that the mistake had passed unnoticed. But she could sense the pianist dissembling, could feel it in the atoms between her and the woman, which started to jump about like bubbles in a bottle of soda; she could feel the effect on her skin. The woman was trying to muscle her way back into the closed room of her focussed mind, but things just kept getting worse—a fumbled triad, and then having to make a quarter rest into an eighth in order to get back on track. And then, at the bottom of the next page, just as [REDACTED] rose into her half stand and leaned in to make her move, she caught the panicked look in the pianist’s eyes and knew that the woman was lost, that her concentration had deserted her, and that the strange alchemy by which a musician could be both inside and outside the music at the same time—both intellectually aware of the orchestra and of all that she had learned and decided about the music, and yet so wholly within the space of her own soul that the music was like speech, integrated and effortless—was coming undone.
[REDACTED] turned the page. The pianist looked at her sharply and [REDACTED] knew that she had done wrong. But what could she do? It had been time to turn the page. The music was continuing, the orchestra relentlessly pushing forward. A swift glance at the woman and [REDACTED] realized that she was not angry but desperate, and that [REDACTED] was now involved in an intimate, silent dialogue with her. The woman was asking [REDACTED] to save her. [REDACTED] gestured with her chin at the music, smiled in what she hoped was an optimistic way. Just go on, she meant to say. The woman had only to find her place in the line of notes and chords, and slip back in, like a girl stepping into the alternating jump ropes in a game of Double Dutch. She needed to yank her brain away from the accident, the missed notes, as [REDACTED] had had to yank hers away from Nathan’s damning silence on the phone from Austin, from her mother’s diagnosis, and move forward, head toward the next indicated thing, even if there were no directions. But the woman’s desperation only grew, and [REDACTED] did something that she knew was patently wrong in the etiquette of her job but was equally necessary: she rose fully off her seat, as she did when helping a faltering student through a recital, reached forward, and put her finger on the correct measure, then sat down, hoping that her move had been just swift and subtle enough not to draw the attention of the audience. But she knew that this was impossible.
Eventually, the pianist found her equilibrium, and although the rest of the movement, and the entire concerto, seemed subdued to [REDACTED]’s ear, there were no more mistakes. The audience was generous; [REDACTED] stood by her seat while the conductor and the pianist responded to the loud applause, then followed them offstage, keeping her customary distance behind them so as not to distract. When the pianist and the conductor returned to the stage for a second bow, the pianist shot her a complicated look full of gratitude and sorrow, hatred and shame, all at the same time, and [REDACTED] was sent hurtling back to the time when she herself had been unable to make her music perfect, when she had been filled with sadness and rage and hope and the aching sense of being close, but not close enough, to beauty.
Dorothy woke up, moaning.
“Mom?” [REDACTED] said, snapping out of her drowsy reverie into full-throttle fear.
Dorothy put her hands to her breastbone. “Hurts,” she said, in a high, strained voice. [REDACTED] reached across the aisle to where her mother was now doubled over, her head on her knees. Dorothy let out a muted, inhuman bark.
“Can you breathe like that, Mom? Let me sit you up.”
She moved next to her mother, and slowly pulled Dorothy’s shoulders toward the seat back. Dorothy’s face was bloodless.
“Mom?” [REDACTED] said. She was terrified, and instantly filled with a grief she’d imagined lay in store for her only later, long after this trip was over, long after her mother had died. But now it seemed that the sorrow had always been there, perhaps from the very start—from the moment she was born and first saw this person, this tiny woman who was to be her protector and guide—that it had been waiting for her ever since. She was horrified to find that her mind had made an acrobatic leap forward, that she was already turning the moment into a reminiscence she’d tell, of her last night on earth with her mother. “We were miles from anywhere,” she’d say. “We had a whole compartment to ourselves!”—as if this inexcusable luxury should at least have staved off death.
Dorothy groaned.
“Let me get your purse,” [REDACTED] said, beginning to rise from the seat. “Do you have any painkillers in there, Mom? Did Dr. Halverson give you something?”
Dorothy reached up and, with surprising strength, pulled [REDACTED] down next to her. She whispered something unintelligible.
“What? Mom?” [REDACTED] said, leaning close to her mother’s face. She could smell Dorothy’s sour breath.
“Stop moving,” Dorothy said, the words barely audible.
“There’s got to be something we can do,” [REDACTED] said.
“Why?”
[REDACTED] realized that she was holding her mother’s narrow hand in hers. She couldn’t remember the last time she had held her mother’s hand. She turned it over, and gently began to stroke her mother’s wrinkled palm in circles. “Is that good?” [REDACTED] said. “Does that help?”

“Does it?” Dorothy said softly.
[REDACTED] wondered if Dorothy was confused. Perhaps the cancer was affecting her brain. She searched her face, but could see nothing more than the mask that Dorothy had put on to barricade herself against the pain.
“It’s too much, Mom. It’s just too much,” [REDACTED] said.
“No,” Dorothy whispered, her voice barely audible above the sound of the train. “It’s just enough.”
The clinic was on the outskirts of town, and it took nearly forty-five minutes to get there by cab. The ride was more horrific than any part of the journey to that point. Even though Dorothy had agreed to take the pain medication that Dr. Halverson had given her, simply getting her up off her train seat took [REDACTED] nearly ten minutes. [REDACTED] flagged a porter through the open window, and the young man helped her, both with the bags and with the awkward attempt to move Dorothy out of the compartment, through the corridor, down the three metal steps, and onto the platform. [REDACTED] could tell that her mother was making a huge effort to hide her pain, but even with her mouth set and her eyes nearly closed her expression was stricken. [REDACTED] apologized for the jolts to her mother’s body, for the cold smack of air that greeted them on the platform, for the distance they had to cross to reach the cab stand, until she realized that what she really meant to apologize for was the fact that no amount of flinty-eyed pragmatism would help Dorothy through this moment, the fact that simply being was sometimes an unbearable mess and what was hoped for in life was so rarely reached, the shortfall so much more fumbling and base than anything one had ever imagined for oneself.
 
[REDACTED] held her mother as the cab bumped and buckled over the streets of [REDACTED]. She thought to yell at the driver, to try to make him understand that he had to slow down because her mother was dying of cancer, but she knew that her mother’s pain was so deep and pervasive that a gentler cab ride would do nothing to ameliorate it.
The cab pulled up to the curb in front of the clinic. [REDACTED] looked out her window. The building was far from the brewery of her fantasy. A genteel-looking Beaux-Arts structure squeezed between a pizzeria and a bookshop—there was nothing to indicate that anything medical went on inside it at all, no symbol of a rod and twisted serpent, not even a wheelchair ramp. Anything could have been taking place behind those bevelled-glass doors—lawyers spinning cases, lovers making arguments of their own. [REDACTED] suddenly longed to stay in the cab, to ask the driver to carry on, take them anywhere, nowhere, as long as she could stay sitting like this, with her mother nestled safely in her arms. The driver turned and looked at the women expectantly.
“Are we there?” Dorothy’s voice was raw.
“Yes. This is it.”
“What are we waiting for?”
[REDACTED] paid the driver. He got out of the car to retrieve the bags from the trunk while [REDACTED] gingerly helped her mother onto the sidewalk.
“My God, it’s cold!” [REDACTED] said, buttoning Dorothy’s coat up to her neck, and then tugging her own around her as the cab pulled away from the curb. “You couldn’t have chosen a better season for this?” she teased. “I hear spring in [REDACTED] is lovely.” But she was stopped short by Dorothy’s expression, which seemed so tentative, as though she were facing not a four-story town house but Mt. Everest, the task looming high and impossible before her. [REDACTED] realized suddenly that Dorothy had not made her baffling medical choices because she wanted to die, any more than she chose to live among her withering possessions because she did not desire a future. She understood that her mother wanted to live, but that, standing here on this foreign street, she had momentarily lost her way. The path through this complicated piece of life, which must have seemed so clear to Dorothy just a few days ago, sitting in her apartment in [REDACTED], was now as inscrutable as a piece of music could be when first confronted—a wild and alien language of signs that seemed like the ravings of some madman, until you put your hands on the keys and played one note, then the next, then the next. [REDACTED] could see panic in Dorothy’s eyes, the same panic she’d seen on the face of the pianist, marooned in a sea of sound that suddenly made no sense.
[REDACTED] raised her hand and pointed at the door. “This is it, Mom,” she said. “This is the place. We just have to walk a few more steps and then we’ll be there.” But just as she was about to put her arm around her mother, Dorothy drew herself up, somehow guided back to herself by her daughter’s confident gesture and voice, and started forward on her own. 

