THE FIRST SENSE
By Nadine Gordimer


She has never felt any resentment that he became a musician and she didn’t. Could hardly call her amateur flute-playing a vocation. Envy? Only pride in the achievement that he was born for. She sits at a computer in a city-government office, earning, under pleasant enough conditions, a salary that has at least provided regularly for their basic needs, while his remuneration for the privilege of being a cellist in a symphony orchestra has been sometimes augmented by chamber-music engagements, sometimes not; in the summer, the off season for the orchestra, he is dependent on these performances on the side.
Their social life is in his professional circle—fellow-musicians, music critics, aficionados whose connections insure them free tickets, and the musical families in which most of the orchestra members grew up, the piano-teacher or choir-singing mothers and church-organist fathers. When new acquaintances remember to give her the obligatory polite attention, with the question “What do you do?,” and she tells them, they clearly wonder what she and the cellist who is married to her have in common.
As for her, she found when she was still an adolescent—the time for discovering parental limitations—that her cheerful father, with his sports shop and the beguiling heartiness that is a qualification for that business, and her mother, with her groupies exchanging talk of female reproductive maladies, from conception to menopause, did not have in their comprehension what it was that she wanted to do. A school outing at sixteen had taken her to a concert where she heard, coming out of a slim tube held to human lips, the call of the flute. Much later, she was able to identify the auditory memory as Mozart’s Flute Concerto No. 2 in D, K. 314. Meanwhile, attribution didn’t matter any more than the unknown name of a bird that sang heart-piercingly, hidden in her parents’ garden. The teacher who had arranged the cultural event was understanding enough to put the girl in touch with a musical youth group in the city. She babysat on weekends to pay for the hire of a flute, and began to attempt to learn how to produce with her own breath and fingers something of what she had heard.
He was among the Youth Players. His instrument was the very antithesis of the flute. Part of the language of early attraction was a kind of repartee about this, showoff, slangy, childish. The sounds he drew from the overgrown violin between his knees: the complaining moo of a sick cow; the rasp of a blunt saw; a long fart. “Excuse me!” he would say, with a clownish lift of the eyebrows and a down-twisted mouth. His cello, like her flute, was a secondhand donation to the Players from the estate of some old man or woman that was of no interest to family descendants. He tended it in a sensuous way, which, if she had not been so young and innocent, she could have read as an augur of how his lovemaking would begin. Within a year, his exceptional talent had been recognized by the professional musicians who coached these young people voluntarily, and the cello was declared his, no longer on loan.
They played together when alone, to amuse themselves and secretly imagine that they were already in concert performance, the low, powerful cadence coming from the golden-brown body of the cello making her flute voice sound, by contrast, more like that of a squeaking mouse than it would have heard solo. In time, she reached a certain level of minor accomplishment. He couldn’t lie to her. They had, with the complicity of his friends, found a place where they could make love—for her, the first time—and, out of commitment to a sincerity beyond their years, he couldn’t deceive her and let her suffer the disillusions of persisting with a career that was not open to her level of performance. Already she had been hurt, dismayed at being replaced by other young flautists when ensembles were chosen for public performances by “talented musicians of the future.”
“You’ll still have the pleasure of playing the instrument you love best.”
She would always remember what she said: “The cello is the instrument I love best.”
They grew up enough to leave whatever they had been told was home, the parents. They worked as waiters in a restaurant; he gave music lessons in schools. They found a bachelor pad in the run-down part of town, where most whites were afraid to live because blacks had moved there since segregation was outlawed. In the generosity of their passionate happiness they had the expansive impossible need to share something of it—the intangible become tangible—bringing a young man who played pennywhistle kwela on the street corner up to their kitchen nook to have a real meal with them, rather than tossing small change into his cap. The white caretaker of the building objected vociferously. “You mad? You mad or what? Inviting blacks to rob and murder you. I can’t have it in the building.”
She went to computer courses and became proficient. If you’re not an artist of some kind, or a doctor, a civil-rights lawyer, what other skill makes you of use in a developing country? Chosen, loved by the one you love—what would be more meaningful than being necessary to him in a practical sense as well, able to support his vocation, his achievements yours by proxy? “What do you do?” “Can’t you see? She makes fulfillment possible, for both of them.”
Children: married more than a year, they discussed this, the supposedly natural progression in love. Postponed until next time. Next time, they reached the fact: as his unusual gifts began to bring engagements at music festivals abroad and opportunities to play with important—soon-to-be-famous—orchestras, it became clear that he could not be a father, home for the bedtime story every night, or for schoolboy soccer games, at the same time that he was a cellist, soon to have his name on CD labels. If she could get leave from her increasingly responsible job—not too difficult, on occasion—to accompany him, she would not be able to shelve that other responsibility, care of a baby. They made the choice of what they wanted: each other, within a single career. Let her mother and her teatime friends focus on the hazards of reproduction, contemplating their own navels. Let other men seek immortality in progeny; music has no limiting lifespan. An expert told them that the hand-me-down cello was at least seventy years old and the better for it.
One month—when was it?—she found that she was pregnant; kept getting ready to tell him but didn’t. He was going on a concert tour in another part of the country, and by the time he came back there was nothing to tell. The process was legal, fortunately, under the new laws of the country, conveniently available at a clinic named for Marie Stopes, a past campaigner for women’s rights over their reproductive systems. Better not to have him—what? Even regretful. You know how men, no matter how rewarded with success, buoyant with the tide of applause, still feel they must prove themselves potent. (Where had she picked that up? Eavesdropping, as an adolescent, on tea parties.)
 
She was so much part of the confraternity of orchestras. The rivalry among the players, drowned out by the exaltation of the music they created together. The gossip—because she was not one of them, both the men and the women trusted her with indiscretions that they wouldn’t risk with one another. And when he had differences with guest conductors from [REDACTED] or 4a6170616e or God knows where, their egos as complex as the pronunciation of their names, his exasperation found relief, as he unburdened himself in bed of the podium dramas and moved on to the haven of lovemaking. If she was in a low mood—the -bungles of an inefficient colleague at work, or her father’s “heart condition” and her mother’s long complaints over the telephone about his disobeying doctor’s orders with his whiskey-swilling golfers—the cello would join them in the bedroom and he’d play for her. Sometimes until she fell asleep to the low tender tones of what had become his voice, to her, the voice of that big curved instrument, its softly buffed surface and graceful bulk held close against his body, sharing the intimacy that was hers. At concerts, when his solo part came, she did not realize that she was smiling in recognition, that this was a voice she would have recognized anywhere, among other cellists bowing other instruments.
Each year, the music critics granted, he played better. Exceeded himself. When distinguished musicians came for the symphony and opera season, it was appropriate that he and she should entertain them at the house, far from the pad they’d once dossed down in. Where others might have kept a special piece of furniture, some inheritance, there stood in the living room, retired, the cello he’d learned to play on loan. He now owned a Guadagnini, a mid-eighteenth-century cello, found for him by a dealer in [REDACTED]. He had been hesitant. How could he spend such a fortune? But she was taken aback, indignant, as if someone had already dared to remark on his presumptuous extravagance. “An artist doesn’t care for material possessions as such. You’re not buying a Mercedes, a yacht!” He had bought a voice of incomparable beauty, somehow human, though of a subtlety and depth—moving from the sonority of an organ to the faintest stir of silences—that no human voice could produce. He admitted—as if telling himself in confidence, as much as her—that this instrument roused in him skilled responses that he hadn’t known he had.
In the company of guests whose life was music, as was his, he was as generous as a pop singer responding to fans. He’d bring out the precious presence in its black reliquary, free it, and settle himself to play among the buffet plates and replenished wineglasses. If he’d had a few too many, he’d joke, taking her by the waist for a moment, “I’m just the wunderkind brought in to thump out ‘Für Elise’ on the piano,” and then he’d play so purely that the voice of the aristocratic cello, which she knew as well as she had that of the charity one, made all social exchange strangely trivial. But the musicians, entrepreneurs, and guests favored to be among them applauded, descended upon him, the husbands and gay men hunching his shoulders in their grasp, the women giving accolades, sometimes landing on his lips. It wasn’t unusual for one of the distinguished male guests—not the 4a6170616eese but especially the elderly German or Italian conductors—to make a pass at her. She knew that she was attractive enough, intelligent enough, musically and otherwise (even her buffet was good), for this to happen, but she was aware that it was really the bloom of being the outstandingly gifted cellist’s woman that motivated these advances. Imagine if the next time the celebrated cellist played under your baton in [REDACTED] you were able to remark to another musician your own age, “And his wife’s pretty good, too, in bed.”
Once the guests had gone, host and hostess laughed about the flirtatious attention, which he hadn’t failed to notice. The cello stood grandly against the wall in the bedroom. Burglaries were common in the suburbs, and there were knowledgeable gangs who looked not for TV sets and computers but for paintings and other valuable objects. Anyone who broke in would have to come into the bedroom to catch sight of the noble Guadagnini, and face the revolver kept under the pillow.
Bach, Mozart, Hindemith, Cage, Stockhausen, and Glass were no longer regarded in the performance world patronizingly as music that blacks neither enjoyed nor understood. The national orchestra, which was his base—while his prestige meant that he could absent himself whenever he was invited to festivals or to join a string ensemble on tour—had a black trombonist and a young second violinist with African braids that fell about her ebony neck as she wielded her bow. She spoke German to a visiting Austrian conductor; she’d had a scholarship to study in [REDACTED]. Professional musicians have always been a league of nations; for a time, the orchestra had a tympanist from [REDACTED]. He became a special friend, and on occasion a live-in guest, who kept her company when the beautiful cello accompanied its player overseas.
She was aware that, without a particular ability of her own, beyond an everyday competence in commercial communications, she was privileged enough to have an interesting life, and a remarkably talented man whose milieu was also hers.
What was the phrase? She “saw the world,” often travelling with him. She had arranged a leave, to accompany the string ensemble to [REDACTED], for one of the many musical events in commemoration of the two-hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary of Mozart’s birth, but then couldn’t go after all, because her father was dying—cheerfully, but her mother had to be supported.
The ensemble met with exceptional success, among musicians of high reputation from many countries. He brought back a folder full of press cuttings—a few in English—glowing. He tipped his head dismissively—perhaps you can become inured to praise, in time, or perhaps he was tired, drained by the demands of his music. She had suggestions for relaxation: a film, a dinner, away from concert-hall discipline, with the ensemble musicians; one becomes close to people—a special relationship that she had long recognized in him—with whom one has achieved something. He was not enthusiastic. “Next week, next week.” He took the revered cello out of its solitude in the case carved to its shape and played, to himself, to her—well, she was in the room those evenings.
It is his voice, that glorious voice of his cello, saying something different, speaking not to her but to some other.
He makes love to her. Isn’t that always the signal of return after he has been away?
There’s a deliberation in the caresses. She is almost moved to say stupidly what they’ve never thought to say to each other: Do you still love me?
He begins to absent himself from her at unexplained times or for obligations that he must know she knows don’t exist.
The voice of the cello doesn’t lie.
How to apply to the life of this man that shabby ordinary circumstance—what’s the phrase? He’s having an affair. Artists of any kind attract women. They sniff out some mysterious energy of devotion there, which will always be the rival of their own usually reliable powers of seduction. Something that will be kept from even the most desired woman. Who could know that attraction better than she? But, for her, that other, mysterious energy of devotion has now made of love a threesome.
 
The cello with its curved body reverentially in the bedroom.
What woman?
At music festivals around the world, the same orchestral players, the same quartets and trios keep meeting. In different countries, they share a map of common experience, live in the same hotels, exchange discoveries of restaurants, complaints about concert-hall acoustics, and enthusiasm over audience response. If it were some musician encountered on a particular tour, that didn’t necessarily mean that the affair was a brief one, which had ended when the man and the woman went their separate ways, seas and continents apart; they might meet again, plan to, at the next festival, somewhere else in the world—[REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED]—where he had played or was contracted to play soon. The stimulation not only of performance before an unknown audience but of meeting again, the excitement of being presented with the opportunity to continue something interrupted.
Or was the woman nearer home? A member of the national orchestra in which he and his cello were star performers? That was an identification she found hard to look for, considering their company of friends in this way. A young woman, of course, a younger woman than herself. But wasn’t that just the inevitable decided at her mother’s tea-table forum? The clarinet player was in her late forties, endowed with fine breasts in décolleté and a delightful wit. There was often repartee between them, the clarinet and the cello, over drinks. The pianist, young with waist-length red-out-of-the-bottle hair, was a lesbian kept under strict guard by her woman. The third and last female musician in the orchestra was also the last whom one would be crass enough to think of: her name was Khomotso; she was the second violinist of extraordinary talent, one of the two black musicians. She was so young; she had given birth to an adored baby, who, for the first few months of life, had been brought to rehearsals in the car of Khomotso’s sister so that the mother could suckle the infant there. The director of the orchestra gave an interview to a Sunday newspaper about this, as an example of the orchestra’s adaptation to the human values of the new [REDACTED]. The violinist was certainly the prettiest, the most desirable, of the women in whose company the cellist spent the intense part of his days and nights, but respect, his human feeling, would be stronger than sexual attraction, his identification with her as a musician would make distracting her from that taboo. As for him, wouldn’t it look like the old [REDACTED]—a white man “taking advantage of” the precariously balanced life of a young black woman?
His lover might also have been one of the faithful season-ticket holders who gave post-performance parties. He had a lunchtime friendship with one of the male regulars, an industrialist and amateur viola player with a fine music library, from which he was free to borrow. Or it might have been the wife of one of these men. Many of the wives were themselves career women, much younger than their wealthy husbands, bringing intelligence of a commitment to ideas and activities outside the arts, as well as what he might see as sexual availability.
It was no longer assumed that she would go with him, as she always had, when he accepted invitations to receptions or private houses; the unspoken implication was that these were now strictly professional. He no longer suggested what had also been assumed—that when he was to give a recital in another city in their home country she would, of course, be there. He packed his overnight bag on their bed, took up the black-clad body of the cello, and kissed her goodbye. There were well-spaced acts of dutiful intercourse, as if it were as routine as a regular haircut. She began to want to avoid the approach in bed, and then grew fearful that she would send him to the other woman by suggesting that she did not desire him; at the same time, she wanted terribly to put her hands, her mouth on the body beside her, no matter the humiliation of the act, which he fulfilled like a medical procedure, prescribed to satisfy her. A bill to be paid.
She waited for him to speak. About what had happened. To trust the long confidence between them. He never did. She did not ask, because she was also afraid that what had happened, once admitted, would be irrevocably real.
One night, he got up in the dark, took the cello out of its bed, and played. She woke to the voice, saying something passionately angry in its deepest bass.
Then there came the time when—was it possible, in his magnificent, exquisite playing?—there was a disharmony, the low notes dragging as if the cello were refusing him. Nights, weeks, the same.
So. She knew that the affair was over. She felt a pull of sadness—for him. For herself, nothing. By never confronting him she had stunned herself.
Soon he came to her again. The three of them—he, she, and the cello against the wall—were together.
He made love better than ever remembered, caresses not known, more subtle, more anticipatory of what could be roused in her, what she was capable of feeling, needing. As if he’d had the experience of a different instrument to learn from. 

