TANGO
By Thomas McGuane

L. Raymond Hoxey bought an old mansion in Livingston, [REDACTED], and converted the third floor into a delightful apartment with views of several mountain ranges, including the Absarokas, the Bridgers, and the Crazies. The second floor kept his print collection in archival conditions, with humidifiers and air-quality equipment. The first floor was divided into two small, comfortable apartments, one of which housed his assistant, Tessa Larionov, and the other, in the summer, a textile historian, employed by the Metropolitan Museum in [REDACTED], who was also a trout fisherman.
The year the historian died, I was still in premed and was painting houses to support myself; I moved into the vacated apartment. Acknowledging that there is a difference between being naïve and being innocent, I will say that I was entirely naïve back then. My parents lived only a few miles away, but we weren’t getting along, and I needed some distance, despite the fact that my mother was sick and often ranted about God. How was I to know that she was about to die? Like most people studying medicine, I planned to get rich, but I wasn’t rich yet; I was just a poor housepainter, out of work and hoping for something to come along, and, despite all other evidence, I feared that I would be one forever, packing a great wheel of color chips from one indifferent house to another. I don’t mean to suggest mild insecurity here: by any reasonable standard, I was losing my mind.
Tessa Larionov was the daughter of a Russian engineer who had immigrated to [REDACTED] in 1953 and found his way to Choteau, [REDACTED], where he set up business building bridges for the railroad. Tessa’s mother was not Russian; she may have been Italian. She had met Tessa’s father in [REDACTED], when he first landed. Tessa was a powerfully built but attractive woman, with black hair, black eyes, and the look of a Tatar—humorous and a little dangerous. She was liked by everyone who knew her. Trained in library science, she had worked as an archivist at some very august places, including the [REDACTED], in San Marino, where she’d met her employer and our landlord, L. Raymond Hoxey, who had let her talk him into retiring to [REDACTED] with his rare-prints business, which she was now helping to run. Hoxey was eighty-one years old, and his arrangement with Tessa was really just a way of avoiding assisted living. She was very fond of him but had wanted to move home, and this arrangement worked for them both. Tessa was exactly thirty, still single, though she had enjoyed an active love life, leaving behind her only grateful hearts, or so she said. “They’re all still crazy about me—that’s why I left [REDACTED],” she told me. Settling down was of no interest to her; the prints were her life, and she wanted to keep her eye on Hoxey. I was twenty, but she treated me as if I were even younger—a salute to my retarded behavior, I’m sure.
My father was a pipe fitter for the Northern Pacific Railroad. (In the world of corporate takeovers, the railroad had actually changed its name several times, but Northern Pacific was the one that stayed in all our minds: it meant something; “Burlington Northern” meant nothing.) My mother was a hairdresser and, because of her big mouth, she had enemies all over southwest [REDACTED] and very few customers. As an only child, I was all but homeschooled, driven back and forth between our house and the less fashionable grade school in the area, then the local high school, where I was anonymous, never having been allowed, by my overprotective mother, to learn a sport. But I liked to fish. I’d fish anywhere there was water; I fished in a lot of ditches where there was no hope of success. I commuted to college and lived like a monk, on a small scholarship. I now understand that I was a weirdly underdeveloped human being for my age, ripe for just the sort of encounter that I had with Tessa Larionov. Even my mother noticed my immaturity; she was always telling me, “Stop staring at people!”
It was Hoxey whom I got to know first. The day I arranged to rent from him, he happened to have received several Reginald Marsh prints, of which he was very proud. I acted as if I’d heard of Reginald Marsh. I didn’t know one painter from another, but I had a hunger for this sort of information—I was sure that it would be useful later, when I was rich. Hoxey was a pleasant old man who must have once been very fat, because he had loose flesh hanging from him everywhere and as many as seven chins. I always tried to count them while he was speaking to me, but then something in his remarks would break my concentration. This physicality, which bespoke a lifetime of phlegmatic living, gave his discourse on prints the authority that a weathered desert rat would have if he told you about cactus. I remember Hoxey carefully unpacking one of the prints—a kind of crazy thing with blank-faced people swarming in and out of doorways, no one reacting to anyone else. He said that it was the calmest Reginald Marsh he’d ever seen. “No ‘Moonlight and Pretzels’ in this one!” he cried. I could see both that he’d be an agreeable landlord and that many health issues lay before him. As a medical student, I could make a little game of guessing which one would kill him.
A few days after I moved in, Tessa asked me over for drinks. She had done a beautiful job of making her apartment habitable, with old, comfortable furniture that she’d bought cheap and re-covered. She also had a good many of Hoxey’s prints on loan, though, as she explained, she was really just providing storage for them, because her collection changed as things were sold. She made a little face when she told me that she couldn’t afford to get attached to any of the prints, a particular trial for her as she loved the art of all nations. Cocktails and art, I thought—maybe I’ll get into her pants. I’m sure that I had a big goober smile on my face as I contemplated such an outcome.
“Because I work upstairs, I’ve had to become a walker just to get outside,” she told me, as she mixed our drinks in a blender. “You start getting curious about different neighborhoods—where the railroaders lived, where the ranchers retired, where the doctors and bankers live. In the winter, when the wind starts up, I have to tie a scarf over my face. Anybody you see in the street is ducking for a building, kind of like in the Blitz.”
As I listened, I found that I was leaning forward in my chair with my hands pressed between my knees. It was only when she stopped to look at me that I realized that my posture was strange. I pretended that I was just stretching and leaned back in an apparently casual but quite uncomfortable position. As Tessa came toward me with a brightly colored drink, it seemed as though both she and it were expanding, and when she handed me the glass I wasn’t sure that I was strong enough to hold it. I felt suddenly as if everything were bigger than me, as if I were in over my head, trying to handle the kind of situation that, when I was rich, I would take to like a duck to water. But things settled quickly once she sat down, and I was glad to have the drink because I felt a bit cotton-mouthed. I had gone from my first impulse about getting into her pants to fearing that she’d try to get into mine.
 
I’m not much of a drinker; water would have served as well. That summer I’d made an experimental jaunt into a local bar. I felt that I needed to learn to be more social. I struck up a conversation with a somber, middle-aged fellow in a rumpled suit. He looked so gloomy that I regaled him with what I felt were uplifting accounts of my struggles at school. He stared at me for a while, until I sensed that all the timing was going out of my conversation. Finally, he said, “Hey boss, I gotta go: you’re creeping me out.”
“Now,” Tessa said, “let’s start at the beginning: what do you think being a doctor will do for you?”
“I don’t know.” My answer came out so quickly she looked startled. She leaned back into the sofa—she was at one end, I at the other—with her elbow propped on the back of it and her fingers parting the hair on the side of her head.
“You don’t know?”
“I wish I did. Sorry.” I involuntarily sang out this last word.
“No, that’s all right. That’s fine. If you don’t want to talk about it, I’m O.K. with that.”
I didn’t share the image I had of myself: still dark-haired but with a graying mustache, marching up the gangplank of a yacht. I kept looking into my drink as if it were a teleprompter and I were the President of [REDACTED]. The colorful liquid seemed like something I had found and would have to turn in. I don’t know why I made people so uncomfortable. As a kind of icebreaker, I thought to ask her a question.
“When people use the expression ‘Rest in peace,’ do you think they have some basis for saying it, or is it just wishful thinking?”
I can’t imagine what made me think that she’d have the answer to this doleful conundrum. But surely my mother’s poor health was on my mind.
“You mean, about the dead?”
“Sure.”
Tessa looked at me for a very long time before saying anything.
“You know, let’s try this another time. Maybe it’s you, maybe it’s me, but at this point in time and space it’s just not happening.”
I backed out of there like a crab. I felt sorry for Tessa; she’d probably have trouble sleeping after this weird visit from the new neighbor. I just didn’t know what to do about it—an apology from me would have made it all seem even weirder.
Thereafter, we sometimes ran into each other in the hallway between our apartments, and things did not get any less awkward. I made increasingly maladroit attempts to be cordial, attempts that were received with growing skepticism, even revulsion. Finally, upon seeing me, Tessa would dart into her apartment and slam her door. What was strange is that if I lingered in the hallway after she’d gone inside, I always, moments later, heard her phone ring.
Once she said to me, “I know you’re tracking my movements.” And another time, “Don’t think you’re fooling me.” And another, a cry: “Please stop!”
“Stop what?”
A mirthless laugh followed and a slammed door.
I made every effort to avoid these encounters. Indeed, I did start tracking her movements, in order to avoid her. She headed upstairs to work for Hoxey at exactly nine, out for the mail at ten-thirty, lunch with Hoxey in his apartment, catered by Mountain Foodstuff, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, out to lunch Tuesday and Thursday but always back by one-thirty, [REDACTED] and FedEx and other outbound packages at four o’clock, and then her workday was over. On the weekends, I really didn’t have a pattern of her activities and nervously came and went from my apartment. When she had men over, they seemed to linger around my door as if they were on the lookout for me. One afternoon, a strapping man positioned himself as though to actually block my way. I gave him a big smile and pushed past. He smelled like motor oil. He said, “Hello, Doc.” Tessa must have told him that I was in premed. I said hello. I was glad to get inside and, when I looked through the little spy hole in the door, I was looking into his ear.
Concentrating on the help-wanted ads calmed me down. I had discovered that I needed to look for work in other towns, as people in Livingston knew who I was and—this really is very funny—held my studies against me.
“You can’t paint my house,” Mrs. Talliafero said. “You’re going to be a doctor!”
“Not necessarily!” I said in my warmest tone, while hers cooled markedly. I have no idea why I answered her that way. I was sure that I was going to be a doctor, but when I was under pressure to make conversation it was as if all my life plans had gone up in smoke.
I kept studying the paper. I recognized the real opportunities that exist for those who wish to sell cars or apply siding, but the trouble I was having with my communication skills made me fear that those occupations might not be my line. I really thought that once I got my timing back—and it was a timing issue—I’d be able to look into a different set of prospects. I was very much focussed on my chances of being unexceptional; if I had any opportunity to keep my head down, I meant to take it.
I got a job working for a very nice guy, or so I thought, named Dan Crusoe. He was an attorney in Billings, who specialized in whiplash and owned a cute little turn-of-the-century cottage in Harlowton, which he used as a weekend place—or, rather, somewhere to vacation with his secretary, who did not enjoy the same legal standing as his wife. “Lawyers like me make doctors leave the profession every day!” he joked. “[REDACTED] to painting houses.” But he was an amiable fellow with a big laugh that led one’s attention away from his shrewd, close-set eyes. His dark curls were so uniform and regular they suggested the work of a beautician. When I asked him if they were natural, he told me to mind my own business with such vehemence that I actually jumped back. The previous owner of his cottage had used stolen Forest Service paint for the trim and shutters, and Dan wanted it all yellow, “like sunshine, get it?” I was rehearsing what I thought to be the appropriate style for my current position when I said, “No problema,” but Dan seemed to detect some awkwardness in my delivery, for his eyes grew narrow and he just said, “Right.”
I rented a pressure washer, masked everything, used a quality primer, and picked my weather for the final coat. The house looked much better, but Crusoe never responded to the bill I sent, nor to the second or the third. Live and learn. I wasn’t much interested in exploring my remedies, and, since other revenues were unassured, I sold my car and went on a grocery binge. Also, to celebrate my first two months in the apartment, I bought a bed and put it out in the middle of the living room, where I could luxuriate in all that space and gaze east, west, and south, but not north, out of fine windows that were better than any painting, in that they were full of those moving, changing parts called “Life.”
 
One morning, I heard a timid knock on my door and called, “Enter!” I was stretched out on my new bed in my shorts, reading a newspaper I’d found in the doorway to the bank, when I learned that my visitor was the chief of police. I was really pleased to see him, so pleased that I easily set aside my worries about the reason for his visit. I suppose that I was lonely. In a decent society, the chief of police is the one stranger you should be able to welcome into your home without reservation. But the first thing he told me was that I’d better get dressed, as I was going to jail. He gazed at me with sad knowingness. He had a big, warm face; it shouldn’t be misunderstood if I state that he looked like Porky Pig, with all that guileless amiability, the same pink complexion.
“Tessa Larionov”—he gestured with his head in the direction of Tessa’s door—“has charged you with making obscene phone calls to her.”
“Oh?” I said. “I don’t have a phone.”
For one miraculous moment, there were people passing all three windows and the chief remarked that I needed curtains.
“How bad were these calls supposed to be?” I tried to picture myself as the twisted man dialling her number. In a weird way, it seemed plausible.
“They were not nice.”
It comes as a great surprise to anyone who spends some time in jail in a small town that it is a remarkably stress-free environment. If your reputation is of no concern, your troubles are behind you. The Livingston jail was as good a place as any in which to unravel all the causes for the state I was in. In a rare moment of lucidity, I suggested a wiretap. The chief didn’t take my idea seriously, but the next day was a new day because Tessa informed him that the calls had continued while I was in jail and the wiretap came into play after all.
It soon paid off. Hoxey had been making the calls. Tessa declined to press charges and it all went down as a lovers’ quarrel, once you swallowed the fifty-one-year difference in their ages. Tessa’s routine remained the same, except that her phone no longer rang so much after her workday was done. I finally ran into her in the hallway one afternoon, just as she was coming down with the packages. She stopped in her tracks, arms loaded, and regarded me quizzically. “Hello,” she said. I waited before replying. I wanted her to think about what she had done to me. But she didn’t seem worried, and the longer I waited the less worried she looked.
“Hello,” I said.
“You look like you’ve been painting.”
“Yes, I’ve been painting a house.”
“Here in town?”
“Yes, a doctor’s house on Third.”
“How funny. But you’re going to be a doctor.”
“Yes, I’m going to be a doctor.”
“I don’t suppose we’ll ever get to the bottom of that.”
“No, probably not.”
“If you were sick, would you go to a doctor, or treat yourself?”
“Oh, I’d go to a doctor. I’m not a doctor yet.”
“I mean if you already were. . . . Oh, never mind. Can you help me with these?”
We took the packages to the post office and I stood outside on the steps while she shipped them. I watched a grackle walk between parked cars, one of which had an American flag on its antenna. A strong young man was wheeling a cart of pies into the back of a restaurant. He looked too powerful to wheel pies. My mother drove past, blowing her horn and revealing her colossal agitation through the windshield. People in town enjoyed such scenes.
Once Tessa had sent the packages, she commended me for having taken the jailing episode with such good grace. I told her that I didn’t know how I could have done otherwise, which she mistook for some form of courtesy. I used both speech and body language to indicate that I mostly understood, and that what I didn’t understand I forgave.
I had been brought up to believe that time delivers our dreams and quietly carries our nightmares away, and that most of what lies before us is welcoming and serene. This was part of the strange but cozy world of my home, with God in the role of Mr. Goodwrench. Or, at least, that’s how I looked at it, peering out from the cocoon of my oddly sheltered Pentecostal household, where the only thing I had to worry about was the flames of eternal damnation, which didn’t seem like all that much. I saw Satan as just another person who could be bought after my career took off. My mother was always telling me how deceitful the devil was, but that only made me feel that I could handle him.
Tessa soon took charge of my life, and she decided that it would be good if we were to do something together, just for fun. “Mr. Hoxey feels terrible about all that has happened,” she said. “He wants to treat us to a night on the town.”
That Friday, we signed up for a tango lesson.
Tessa and I and six other couples entered the Elks Hall, with its terrible acoustics and all-consuming clamminess. We were conventionally dressed; I wore a secondhand sports coat and wide tie, Tessa a black sheath that struggled to control her well-muscled shape. The others were more South American in style—hot-red lipstick on their small-town faces, tortoiseshell combs in their swept-back hair. Some of the men had gone with a pomaded look that betrayed their sense of mission. They seemed to smolder in anticipation of their future proficiency.
Our instructor was Juan Dulce, or just “Dulce,” a genuine Argentine who worked his way around the American West giving lessons. He had created a real interest in the tango in the most unlikely places—cow towns, oil towns, uranium towns, coal towns—where this hint of another kind of life carried a special allure. He was perhaps sixty, as thin as a herring, and wore striped pants, a formal black coat, a ruby cravat, and stacked heels. His hair, slicked to his skull, emphasized eyes that seemed to belong to a marine creature of some sort. He was without humor and he effectively conveyed the sacredness of his task. I doubt that I shall forget the sight of him standing on a Pepsi crate and pouring out his introduction in a deep and vibrant voice that seemed to make the room hum.
“When I am fifteen in [REDACTED] Aires I am longing for love and suffering and, above all, success—the hope of becoming a legend of our hot and drowsy tango. I underwent numberless deprivations, but success would reward the sensual designs that I displayed in many venues. Now the money I earn is exchanged for my fatigue, but I have no other way to go, and there are days I awaken upon wretchedness. Once I converted my dancing of three weeks’ duration by a pocket ruler into three hundred seventy-two kilometres. Still, tango is all! Without tango my face inspires doubt. Therefore, my advice is, press your tango to great advantage! And now we begin.”
 
He turned on the big sound system, which had hitherto been employed to enlarge the voices of prairie politicians bent on higher office and nostalgic Scandinavian chorales with cow horns on their heads. The system had astounding capacity, and the room was soon filled with the somber, inevitable cadences of this prelude to intercourse. (As a student, I had not only enjoyed several instances of copulation—albeit with Mr. Goodwrench staring down at me—I had seen the act explained on huge blackboards, so that there could be no doubt about what was going on.)
We began to learn the steps, in the chest-to-chest Argentine style. We arrayed ourselves counterclockwise and concentrated on the spacing between us and the other dancers. My exhilaration at Tessa’s great power soon gave way to apprehension, as though I were riding an unruly horse; and, when I failed to comprehend the crossover steps as described by Dulce, Tessa used her might to drag me into position with a determined expression on her face. To avoid potential humiliation, I attached myself to her flying carcass with a wiry grasp. Her cry of alarm brought Dulce to our side and the other dancers to a stop just as I was beginning to enjoy myself.
“Señor! Grappling has no place in our national dance!”
“I cannot follow her movements,” I explained in an accent identical to Dulce’s, which I found unexpectedly infectious.
“You are not to follow—you are to lead!”
“It’s my fault,” Tessa said. “I lost patience with him during the first abrazo. He just seemed lost. I’ll try to do better.”
“Perhaps this is the time to work on our syncopation,” Dulce said sternly to both of us, “with greater respect for the movements of each other.”
“The music is unfamiliar,” I explained. “You don’t happen to know ‘La Bamba’?” He held his head and moaned as though he’d been shot.
The other couples had deftly caught on to the oddly triangular chests-together, feet-apart position. An older pair of bottle blonds, obviously trained in various kinds of ballroom dancing, made an effort to dance past at close range. The woman had a fixed and toothy Rockettes smile, and when she swept by she caught my eye and called out, “Piece of cake!”
I gave Dulce my word that I would syncopate respectfully, and I began to dance in earnest. At first, Tessa complimented me on my “good hustle,” but she soon proved unequal to my speed and dexterity. Whatever had been going on in my life up to that point poured into my tango, and the exultation I began to experience was interrupted only when Tessa let out a real showstopper of a screech. Then Dulce came between us and made the mistake of laying hands on me. Insofar as I retained a modicum of male pride, this contact quickly devolved into a dusty floor battle, oddly accompanied by the raucous music of [REDACTED] and the sounds of angry interference from the other students. With their help, I was flung into the street. “Good night, doctor!” I realized that Tessa had told the others that I was already out of medical school and that she was no cradle robber.
I recall feeling breathless and completely without direction as I allowed Tessa to take charge of our stroll. She stopped momentarily, between two old commercial buildings, not far from the railroad yard, looked straight at me, and said, “Boo. Hiss.” We went on. “I’m lucky you didn’t request Mannheim Steamroller,” she added. I was defeated.
“Now, don’t be offended and, more important, don’t walk in front of that car,” she said. “I realize you aren’t attracted to me, are you?”
“That’s not the real story,” I replied. “I need encouragement.” These two sentences were uttered with such sincerity that I could see Tessa respond with visible happiness.
“Then let me tell you my own fears. Why? Because you’re adorable. Of course you’re a complete idiot but, within that, there is a certain appeal—I’ve felt it before in pet shops. But I have fears, too. Isn’t that real friendship, to tell someone your fears? You could have been extremely disagreeable over those phone calls.”
“What good would it have done?”
“None, but few people would have recognized that. I sense that you have a good heart, a good heart trapped in a self that is a hop, skip, and jump from kiddie day care. Obscene phone calls from a stranger are intolerable. But when they come from someone you know, particularly a deluded old walrus like Hoxey, well, they don’t arouse quite the same wrath. You had the right to revenge and you declined to take it. Hoxey and I are in your debt.”

I had a strong glimpse here of the sensible side of Tessa, and I had a sudden hunch that she would end up a friend, which rather worried me because she was the sort who might anchor me and teach me to accept reality, such as it was then emerging.
“How about you just walk me home?” she said finally. “That work for you?”
“Of course.”
We paused at the railroad tracks to watch a big northern express rip through. She watched intently and I positioned myself behind her in such a way that it looked as if the train were pouring in one of her ears and out the other. I knew then that I would kiss her.
I suppose it took ten minutes for us to get back to the house, during which time Tessa did her level best to tell me her hopes and dreams, which were honest and simple: ride old man Hoxey into the ground and clean out his estate. That wasn’t how she put it, naturally. Her concern, as she expressed it, was a passion for aesthetic rarities. “No one knows the inventory as I do. No one cares as I do, and no one knows the importance of getting it into strong and caring hands as much as I do.” I didn’t say anything, and I suppose she took my silence as censorious.
We entered her apartment. Before pulling the door closed behind her, she said, “At the end of the day, it is what it is.” I wondered what that meant. Of course it is what it is, and it didn’t even have to be the end of the day to be what it was. I couldn’t understand this sort of thing at all, and in a way kissing someone who said things like that was like kissing air. When I did, it was with the kind of apprehension one feels on placing an open mousetrap in a promising location. Afterward, she held me at arm’s length and looked at me with what one of my professors had called the copulatory gaze. She seemed all-consuming. I thought of the big-bang theory, wherein a tiny speck of matter and energy mysteriously explodes, expanding the universe.
I said, “What do you think?” My heart pounded.
She said, “Let’s give it a whirl.”
We made love on the couch. I performed in a state of amazement at all that skin. Skin everywhere! At one point, she said, “I wonder if you could change your expression. I can barely do this.” When I reached that moment to which all our nature ascends and when the future of the species is assured by spasm after spasm, she remarked, “Never a dull moment.”
 
Over the eight years that followed, as I made my way through medical school and graduated, I’d occasionally see Tessa going about the affairs of Hoxey. She had acquired a questionable reputation around town by then, as he was now sick and demented, and she was seen as exploiting him. Then Hoxey died and whatever worries I might have had for her were briefly allayed, as it seemed that she had inherited the business.
She made an appointment to see me at the clinic. I had forgotten just how large and burningly vital she was. Her hair, piled atop her head and held there by a bright-red plastic comb, seemed to represent fulminating energy. She had a white streak, which she attributed to “trauma.”
“The henchmen of Hoxey have turned me into the street,” she told me, “leaving me with little more than the clothes on my back.”
“Tessa, I find this very hard to picture.”
“Perhaps a few prints, a watercolor or two.”
“Who exactly are these ‘henchmen’?”
“His children. Grown daughters. I never factored them in. They arrived on the scene like Valkyries hovering over the battlefield in search of corpses.”
“I’m terribly sorry to hear this.”
“At a difficult time in your life, Doctor, I offered you companionship and sexual healing.”
“What can I do? Medication is my line, but I don’t think that’s what you’re looking for.”
“I plan to stay here, and I’ll have to start looking for work. I hope you’ll recommend me.”
I reached for a pen, poised to join the millions who have made their way out of a difficult situation by providing a letter of recommendation. But Tessa said, “Not now. I’ll let you know.”
That, more or less, was the end of our appointment. She seemed happy with my response, taking my hand in both of hers. I suppose that she was just checking to see whether I was still on her side.
Tessa went downhill fast. Within two years, she had spells of homelessness, punctuated by temporary jobs, none of which became permanent, because of her imperious nature, her contempt for owners and bosses. She never left a job—she stormed out of it. She took over the homes where she was briefly a guest. Even as her fortunes fell, Tessa didn’t lose her rakish airs, though they began to seem just a bit automatic, as she strode around town in worn clothes.
I was one of several people who helped in small ways, but I rarely saw Tessa. By this time, I had established the small-town practice that would not make me rich, though it might make me happy. Hoxey had long ago returned to [REDACTED] in powder form, leaving nothing behind him. Those years seemed to have allowed me to awaken from my own background and, without boasting, I can say that I had become somewhat less of a fool, though I was constantly aware that my foolishness could come back at any time, like a virus that lies dormant at the base of the spine. I can’t say that I saw Tessa as my responsibility; nor can I claim to have quite got her out of my mind.
The December night that I was celebrating my fortieth birthday with a cake in the emergency room, an ambulance arrived with Tessa: into her abdomen she had plunged a serrated bread knife, an item she continued to clutch on the gurney that conveyed her. I took it from her hand and, feeling on me the heat of her eyes, I quickly began dealing with her wound. I knew that if she were admitted to the clinic itself she would be subjected to what I viewed as diagnostic imprudences—laparotomy and other explorations, which experience had caused me to associate with increased morbidity. Though I would later have a chance to review these judgments, I honestly feel that they didn’t alter the way things turned out. In effect, I was keeping Tessa to myself. I had hoped that this was only a cry-for-help injury—the timing, during my shift, aroused my suspicions—but the knife, it turned out, had pierced the skin, the subcutaneous layer, the linea alba, and the peritoneum, and I could only hope that it had gone no further; that is, into the viscera. Over the next four days, attending Tessa around the clock while she stared at me without speaking, I failed to contain the major spillage, the uncontrolled peritoneal contamination, the necrosis, and an infection that laughed off antibiotics in a general cascade. She was looking right through me when she slipped away.
Aren’t there things that your parents should tell you? After my mother died, I’d gone to my childhood house and found her reading glasses. I’d sat on our old sofa by the window overlooking a stunted row of odorless roses, still knowing, after all those years, which part of the sofa I could sit on without feeling the springs. I put my mother’s glasses on. The earpieces were too short for me, and I had to press them down on my nose uncomfortably. It didn’t matter: I could barely see through them. 

