FREIGHT
By Henry Roth

In February of 1939, having failed to establish myself as a screenwriter in [REDACTED], I decided to hitchhike back to [REDACTED], where my future wife waited. It was a bland [REDACTED] morning, pleasant and calm.
The rendezvous with my friend Royer, who was to take me to a road frequented by hitchhikers, was effected with a minimum of anxiety. I was early; he was a half hour late. He said little en route. Remarks about the highway, tags and scraps of nervous observations.
The miles slipped by all too quickly, covering only the merest jot of the great journey stretching before me, the great journey I would soon have to undertake unassisted, unbefriended, and in ignorance.
Where my highway toward El Centro and Royer’s toward a walnut ranch forked he let me off. We shook hands. I stood a minute looking after the dwindling vehicle, loath to surrender my last connection to companionship, to someone concerned. The car disappeared around a curve in the road.
Undoubtedly I was too reticent, undoubtedly I was too shy. For all my tentative thumbing, my waggling and waving of arms, I got only as far as the next town, and by then the winter sun was already low in the west. A fellow-hitchhiker offered to guide me to the place he was going to stay: it was something better than a flophouse, he said, but not much.
About a mile hike brought us to the place, and it fitted his description—not much better than a flophouse on the Bowery, the chief difference being the absence of drunks standing, drooping and tattered, in the doorway. Evidently aimed at a clientele of transients like myself, it went by the improbable name of the Dew Drop Inn, and cost fifty cents a night per cubicle. Furnished with only a bed and a light, it was innocent of heat at night, with no showers in evidence, only lavatories and crappers. I was counselled by the occupant of the neighboring cubicle, a little wiseacre with a mustache, to make for Holtville, rather than the route that looked shortest, because it was better travelled and better for picking up rides.
It was a cinch to Holtville—the wise guy with the mustache was right. Effortlessly, I parlayed one ride into another, and reached Holtville early in the afternoon. And there I stuck. And not only I—a whole file of hitchhikers, ludicrous in our numbers, compared with the trickle of traffic going our way. The reason for the scarcity of vehicles wasn’t hard to find: from Holtville to Yuma, [REDACTED], next leg of the journey, lay a stretch of road, fifty miles or more, through desert, devoid of towns. Not only did few autos and trucks make the trip, but for us hitchhikers only the whole trip was of any use. Otherwise, we’d be marooned in the middle of nowhere, in or between hamlets without names, tiny blank circles on a map. Though some trucks did pass by, truckers were enjoined by their insurance companies or by their employers not to pick up riders. The driver of the very infrequent passenger car that went all the way, who might have wished to give someone a lift, seeing that long file strung out along the highway, must have feared that he would be mobbed if he stopped for anyone.
The hours went by; so did the cars and trucks, but I advanced not a yard toward Yuma. And, as far as I could see, neither did anyone else, though most of us must have marched at least five miles back and forth in the hope of finding a more propitious station whereon to stab the air with our thumbs: futile Jack Horners were we. One heard the flinty jests of desperation: some guys had been here for three days (I could well believe it); some had applied for resident status. Many hitchhikers, I could see, having abandoned all hope of getting out of town eastward, had crossed the highway and were thumbing their way back west—and with far greater success. Anything to get out of Holtville, I thought. But then I learned that their aim was to backtrack to a railroad junction and hop a freight from there. To hell with the highways, they said.
I felt the same way myself. But, at a loss, I continued to stab the air with my thumb. Then I struck up with a short-statured wise guy. I thought for a moment that he was the one I had met in the flophouse the evening before, who had advised Holtville as my best bet. But he wasn’t. This wise guy had no mustache. Nor would he ever have blown his last fifty cents for a flop, as I soon discovered.
He was as brash a guy as ever I met; his story was that he drove new automobiles from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED], which somehow enabled the dealer to avoid paying an entry tax. Now and then, he drove a “hot” car, a stolen car, from one state to another. In between, he sold used cars. He had been on a drunk for days. Now he was penniless. He had eaten nothing since yesterday; he was beating his way back to Texarkana, his home town. He knew all the ropes, all modes of travel, both highway—which he damned with heartfelt anathema—and freights. If only he could get to Yuma and the freight yards, wouldn’t he show the rest of these lugs how to move? Acting with all the due circumspection of one who has only a few dimes on his person, after great deliberation I invited him into one of the truck stops for coffee and doughnuts. I now had a buddy. His name was Johnny Graham.
We thumbed in tandem now, buddies, but to no avail. Seeking luckier spots, we passed and passed again the prominent sign on the road that read: “Soliciting Rides Liable to Chain Gang.”
“I’m gonna steal that goddam sign,” Johnny threatened.
But night came, and, lit up by approaching headlights that never slowed down, the sign was still there. So were we. At last, miraculously, our symbiosis paid off. Because I treated him to another round of doughnuts and coffee in the truck stop, he and I were free to solicit drivers, our fellow-diners, directly. My polite entreaties got me only “Sorry, bud, it’s my job.” For all his brazen importunings, his truck-driver cant, his bold familiarity, Johnny didn’t fare any better. A few times, truck drivers seemed on the point of yielding, but thought better of it. Then, at 2:15 a.m., Johnny’s tactics paid off: “All right, you win,” the trucker said.
In the back of the cab, behind the driver and his helper, was a concealed bunk, and that was to be our hidden roost for the next fifty miles. The truck butted through the freezing, thin night air, the treads of the heavy tires crooning to the highway asphalt. Through the bunk’s portholes, single stars kept pace with us for long distances, steady as icy rivets. The truck slowed down, came to a stop. In the cold void, we heard a woman’s voice, though we could see no one, a young woman’s voice, cheery and clear, in greeting. And then the cab door opened, slammed shut; again the heavy vehicle lumbered into speed. Johnny and I merely looked at each other. All that mattered was that we were rolling toward Yuma. Perhaps another quarter to a half hour passed, and then the truck came to a stop. We heard the driver get out: “Far as I can take you, fellas.” He opened the bunk door. “Can’t take you into town.”
 
“Sure! Sure!” We understood. We sprang from the bunk down to the highway. “Thanks, Mister. Thanks, pal. Thanks a million.”
The truck stayed there, and we soon walked out of range of its dimmed headlights. Incurious, we did not turn at the sound of truck door opening, thudding closed. With hope renewed, we walked briskly toward the east, toward a horizon still seamless with night, starry, in quiet, keen air, and made out the first city lights about a half mile away: Yuma. And soon we were treading sidewalk.
The gleam of a diner pried into the dark street, promising warmth, food, coffee, against the inhospitable desert gloom behind us. “Coffee an’?” I invited.
“Sure would.” Sheer animal hunger sounded in his plea.
We entered, into humid comfort, found stools, ordered—coffee and two doughnuts apiece (at a cost of ten cents each) and, asking the waitress to hold it a sec, took turns to the lavatory.
And now, refreshed, another brisk walk, to the freight yards, as the night sky streaked into abrasion of dawn. Johnny spoke to other hobos moving along the gravel lanes between freights, and we found a boxcar and clambered aboard. We congratulated ourselves on being alone, on having a private freight car. Alas, too soon. By the time the gray gravel between tracks shone in broad daylight, twenty more birds of passage had joined us. The door of the boxcar opened briefly on warm sunshine when a belated hobo climbed aboard, and rolled closed again. And finally, after those rumblings and bumpings, the mysterious joltings heralding the setting forth of freight trains, we clanked into motion, picked up speed, and were on our way. We rolled the door open to let in the sun. Some of us stretched out on the boxcar floor; some lay jackknifed against the walls; some sat. A gray bearded old hobo, a “bindle stiff,” Johnny labelled him, methodically unfurled various-sized rectangles of blanket and, sighing tranquilly, with hands locked together, reclined on his improvised couch, his head propped up by a stained knapsack.
I found a place next to Johnny. I hadn’t slept in twenty-four hours. Awhile I watched in gratitude as the spectacular [REDACTED] landscape whizzed past the open boxcar door—sunny butte and sloping sunlit mesa. And then overpowering drowsiness meshed everything together into a single clacking carrousel. Ah, what was more wonderful than travelling by freight!
The train made a stop in [REDACTED]. How long it would stay there nobody knew. For an hour or so, we joined the other hobos basking on the sun-warmed planks adjacent to the railroad street crossing. And then, bored, impatient, we strolled over to [REDACTED] and, with the security of outcasts, studied the prosperous citizenry. A rodeo was due to be held that afternoon, so the town may have had more than its usual complement of visitors, and these and the notices of the coming diversion, and the air of anticipation engendered by it, beguiled us into loitering overlong. When we got back to the freight yard, our train had left.
Another was due in a little while, the hobos said. And, soon after, it thundered into the yard, slowing down, but only as if it meant to go on. I ran alongside at top speed, Johnny behind me. I had already been instructed never to grab the steel ladder at the end of a boxcar, but only the one at the beginning—in the direction the train was moving—because a miss on the rear ladder might mean plunging headlong under the wheels of the following car, while a miss on the front ladder would only send me slamming against the freight wall, and I would be hurled back, away from the train. So I made a grab for the front-end ladder, grasped, held on, climbed up to the catwalk atop the freight, knelt, clung to the catwalk—and the train suddenly stopped. Johnny howled with laughter.
“Jeez, that is funny,” I said. “Risk your neck, and have the train stop.”
“No. You’re funny.”
“Me?”
“You’re hot shit, the way you grab a train on the fly.” Johnny guffawed again. “If I ever saw anybody who couldn’t make up his mind gettin’ on a freight, it’s you.”
“Yeah? Why?”
“Chrissake, grab the goddam ladder. It ain’t gonna bite ye.”
Chagrined at my ineptitude, I followed Johnny along the catwalk, leaping the gap from car to car. But chagrin was a luxury I couldn’t afford here; even reflecting on it was inadmissible for somebody being whittled down to nobody, just another hobo, and an incompetent one at that. Pay attention. Watch what you’re doing.
“Here’s a reefer,” Johnny said. He pulled up the rust-covered hatch and peered down. “Nobody in it.”
In the dark refrigerator compartment, its length running the width of the freight, and little more than a yard wide, a steel ladder, affixed to the wall, led down to the bottom. We descended, and looked back overhead, where the reefer hatch could be rigged ajar by an attached rod. Johnny climbed up a few rungs and set the rod.
“You got an extra handkerchief, right?”
“Yeah. What d’you want?”
“Gimme it, will ye?” And, taking the handkerchief, he wedged it under the supporting brackets of the tilted hatch. “That’s so a brakey knows we’re down here.” He climbed down and explained: tramps asleep when the brakeman overhead locked the hatch in freezing weather—to protect the cargo—had been frozen to death when the car was left on a siding out of earshot.
“I get it.”
The train began moving. We half sat, half reclined on the reefer floor. It was not a solid floor but a drainage floor: curved steel bars about a half-inch thick with two-inch spaces between them enabled the water of melting ice cakes in the summer to escape to a tray and the tracks beneath. The steel drainage scimitars pressed cruelly into my buttocks.
Johnny soon fell asleep. I lit my pipe, and watched smoke vent through the transom of the rigged hatch into the narrow dusk of day’s end. The chill penetrated as the light faded . Soon, frigid dark roared into the confines of the empty ice compartment. How to pass the long night?
Long night awake . . . long night cold . . . long night on a freight, five days old . . . long night of clackety-clack, clackety-clack on wheels pounding eastward over the segmented tracks . . .
Howooo. Train whistled approaching a level crossing. What crossing? A crossing in [REDACTED]. How to pass the long cold night?
Why, writer manqué, are you not? Novelist manqué, no? Desperately balked of all the narratives that you tried, narratives that came to naught, no? Came to nort, all abort.
Why, sternly bring your faculties to a focus by composing an autobiography, freely associative . . . but governed by implicit rules of narration . . . augment suspense toward a climax . . . a climax that would exclude present distress. Hey, good ground rules: augment suspense toward a climax . . . that would exclude . . . the cold ache of legs as you lean against the swaying wall, the icy carving of the scimitar bars into butt . . . or shoulder . . . or flank, driving you upright again. Where would you begin? You already told them of your Lower East Side boyhood in one novel; what would you do, then?
 
No, what happens in this vision I have, in this early manhood, seems to defy the ground rules I just laid down. In this thundering crypt above the rails, I see my life as pivoting about certain crucial, certain critical points, where the event determined the rest, the lamentable sequence that followed inexorably in its wake. Clackety-clack. Clackety-clack. The year is 1914. Now, that’s one year after the year in which my novel concludes. Right? Here’s the nub of the disaster: Zayde and Baba (grandfather, grandmother), two uncles, and two aunts, one skip ahead of the Great War, depart Galicia, sell—Zayde does—the little gevelb, the little store, in the little hamlet of Veljish (on no map at all), which pays for second-class passage to Ameritchka, to [REDACTED], to join us. Now, were it not for that semi-556e6974656420537461746573nized whoremonger of a hotel waiter, my uncle Saul, who looked down his snooty beak at the East Side, and persuaded the Galitzianer pilgrims to settle in [REDACTED], ah, how different my history would have been, how different I. For Mom would have been content to remain on the East Side, in our lofty aerie overlooking the breezy East River, on Avenue D and Ninth Street. And I would not have been plucked out of my Orthodox Yiddish mini-state like a what? Vegetable, or a mandrake in Blake’s etching. I would have grown up in unquestioned Orthodoxy, tough little cocksure fisticuffian gamin, who had to hide under the bed when mothers came looking for him for having bloodied their kids’ noses. Me, I, alas, who in the course of a single year among the Irish on 119th Street in East [REDACTED] went from a wiry kid to “Fat, fat, the water rat. Fifty bullets in your hat.” Oh, don’t blame the Irish.
I was outnumbered, and hung around Mom, even learning to embroider cloth between two hoops while I sat on the stoop beside her. Jewboy Achilles become Mama’s boy, tied to her apron strings. Oh, don’t blame the Irish. I should have fought, biffed and battled, for I was once good at it, and that was their language: biff and battle. I had nothing else to recommend me: poor eyes, maladroit, too, couldn’t catch a ball and couldn’t throw one, lousy at stickball. Who knew about such goyish sports on the East Side? Or marbles, or pitching pennies? But don’t blame the Irish. A punch in the nose for a punch in the nose. Jew bastard! But oh, untroubled I had been in my milieu, amid jabbering Jews under the omnipotent sway of a Hebrew God. And then I was suddenly hurled into the alien and incomprehensible goyish maw of East [REDACTED]. Wanna fight? No. So don’t blame the Irish. . . .
Go sit and brood, sit and brood, if you can rest your ass on serried scimitars.
But that was the first, that was the first switch in the tracks, I still insist. First major fork in life’s journey. And clackety-clack and clackety-clack all you damn please.
The movers stole Mom’s red coral beads. Red coral beads, red coral beads, Mom’s mourned-for cherry-red coral beads. They disappeared in transit to [REDACTED].
But I got no support, I got no support. What the hell do you expect of a kid who had a timid mouse of a father, frightened, panicky, whacked the daylights out of me when Mrs. True from upstairs accused me of pushing her kid to the sidewalk, which I never did, but the pack of little goyim he was with ran when I turned in mock menace. She slapped me in front of Pop, and then he added a barbarous beating, so atrocious that dumpy, squat Mrs. Shapiro from the first floor intervened: “You’ll destroy your own son for a goya?” And Mom arrived from shopping, frantic hearing my screams all the way through the hall, planting herself before Pop, the frenzied madman, and demanding of Mrs. True belligerently, “Vot you vant?”
Oh, my mother. How ugly, how lowering gloomy the kitchen setting. Oh, my mother. Beaten the hell out of, drubbed to a whimper, to a snivelling nullity—
Try rolling over to the other flank.
I can’t say it often enough. They had no right to pluck me out like a radish, like a beet, like a scallion, like a parsnip from among my own. And force me to grow hydroponically, a root crop like me, that adored the dirt and the din of the twoscore streets of my Jewish mini-state. The irony of it: Zayde, given name Ben Zion, Orthodox Jew with a beard, comes to these shores with his family, and undoes Orthodoxy. You forget the anticipation, the delirious anticipation of the June day, sitting two flights up in the new apartment prepared for them by Saul and Mamie, my aunt, who lived across the street on 115th Street between [REDACTED] and Madison, a nice “bitvinn” it was called. What did that little tyke imagine his newly arriving kinfolk would look like? Rich, generous, loving Jewish nobility come to rescue him from the unhappiness of the hostile goyish environment of 119th Street! Jewish nobility come to irradiate his unhappy home life! Empathetic, aye, opulent kinfolk, informed with novelty, with captivating fable, proffering handfuls of silver coins, endlessly doting, endlessly rejoicing in him.
Instead, getting out of the two taxicabs to the screams of hysterical Mamie from on high of “Tata, Tata! Oy, Mama, Mamaleh!” that drew the attention of all passersby within earshot on the street below were six ordinary, newly arrived, bewildered Jewish immigrants from Galicia in the erstwhile Austrian Empire.
With Saul overseeing the unloading of persons and baggage, amid commotion in the hall, the newcomers and their escorts ascended to the apartment. Everybody rushed in. Embraces ensued, resounding embraces. Under the supervision of Zayde, the newcomers were herded to the kitchen sink, and each rinsed his or her mouth with salt water. I swear, they rinsed it with something. Epsom salts? Nah. Go ask an Orthodox Jew. But that isn’t the crux of the matter; the crux of the matter is, or was, that your dreams of noble permissiveness, openhanded, free-hearted affection, contracted into a bearded, paunchy Jew who spoke Yiddish so dense you could scarce make way against it, contracted into a Slavic, snub-nosed, gentle, dear, depleted Baba, with little gold-rimmed eyeglasses, dam of a dozen offspring. The older of the two immigrant uncles looked like Baba, stocky, aged eighteen, with a head of thick, wavy chestnut hair, and the younger uncle, long-nosed and straight-haired, dazed into reticence, stood apart, gangly and tall. One aunt, the older, was composed and slow-spoken, while the other aunt was green-toothed, erratic, and noisy with excitement. Both homely. I shrank. Too much to absorb, all their lopsided gesticulations, shrugging, their grimaces and outcries: “Oy, gevalt un azoy, oy, gevalt un azoy! Takeh emes? Un azoy! Oy ich khalesh un azoy!”
With Mom’s permission to leave, with a nickel to comfort me, but still dejected, I walked to Central [REDACTED], and there climbed the granite outcrop atop the rowboat-dotted lake on 110th Street. And along a crease in the ground in a bosky grove where ran a little trickle of rainwater I became the buckskinned and fringed 556e6974656420537461746573n Scout, self-reliant, self-sufficient, in the pristine wilderness of [REDACTED] I knelt down and drank, in ritual, dim commitment. Sipping from the polluted rivulet in much-trodden Central [REDACTED]. That’s not the crux; that’s just a boyhood memory.
 
Oh, my legs ache, ache standing. But sitting down is scant comfort on a seat of sabres.
The brain incandesces and fades, synapses glow and gutter out. You left Judaism, right? Right, ol’ boy, ol’ boy. Left Judaism, and damn glad to. You go with Zayde on a sleepy summer Shabbes to the shul, to the prayer-book musty tenement ground-floor synagogue, sit hour after hour and daven where shown, pray but not know what for, glibly match the right sounds to the printed letters, as you were taught to do on the East Side. And Zayde’s proud of you, his oldest grandson, sure, sure, growing up devout. But the thing wears threadbare for a kid, is a hell of a bore—even though, ah, that was fun, at the Havdalah service—Havdalah, wasn’t it? Half a dollah. To be made much of by the other bearded Jews, Shloymeh F., Zayde’s so dignified older brother, actually wore a shiny silk top hat on Shabbes, what a stereotype target for snowballs if he’d ever appeared in my part of [REDACTED], among the juvenile scamps, Shloymeh with his forked gray beard and proud bearing and rich clearing of the throat. And the other pious congregants offering the only urchin at the Havdalah wine and lovely segments of salt herring, and—man, when that hit my palate the first time!—ripe wrinkled Greek olives.
All right, all right, sit down, if you can’t stand up anymore. But the novelty wasn’t enough to keep you coming regularly. So you shirked. And you and little Eddy F., the Irish widow janitor’s kid, became friends, and he showed you how to make tin-can telephones that stretched on a string from his flat on the ground floor to yours a flight up the worn stairs. And after many a fuzzy greeting, many a humming giggle and blurry message, you were well on the way to shedding your Judaism.
I stood up. Cold vacancy, interminable rattle and roar, my partner curled up in sleep, and a single blue star trailing like a distant kite, in and out of view. I’m tired of your yarn. The point is I’m here on this jigging jiggling freight. I survived. I’ll wait the goddam night out. I’m surly, I’m rancorous.
Weariness thrust in abeyance by the sudden thud on the roof of the freight car, I looked up: thud. Someone had leaped from one freight roof to another. The reefer hatch was lifted. Density of a person obliterating his shape of night sky, bowed, “Who down dere?” under stars spreading all about him. “Hey, you—you down dere?” A Negro voice.
“We are!” I yelled up. And alarmed: “Hey, Johnny!”
“Wha’ ?”
“How many you down dere?”
Apprised in an instant, and instantly hostile: “There’s two of us down here already. That’s enough. We don’t want no more.”
The one overhead lingered for a moment, and then withdrew.
“Boy, it’s cold up there right out in the open. I hope he finds someplace to hide,” I said.
“He’s a nigger. He’ll find a place to duck. I never worry about ’em.” [REDACTED] spoke through Johnny.
“I wonder where the hell he’s been? Come out all of a sudden that way.”
“He should have stayed wherever he was, God damn him. I was sleepin’ good. I mighta slept all the way to El Paso.” He reached for his cap, massaged his glimmering features, yawned noisily, his teeth gleaming at the terminal grunt.
An hour later, Johnny’s glimmering face tipped up toward the roof. “You hear that?”
“I think so.”
“Is that the nigger again?”
“I don’t know.”
“It can’t be a shacky.”
“No? Why not?”
“If he was closin’ up the reefers, we’da heard them other hatches slam.”
“You mean closed against the cold?”
“Yeah. It’s that black bastard.”
Certainty grew, grew as swiftly as the distant thud of someone landing on the catwalk at the farther end of the freight became bounding footsteps approaching. Desperate hands raised the hatch overhead.
“Hey, I’m comin’ down, man. I’m freezin’.”
“There’s two of us down here already. I told you. Stay out!”
“Dere’s three, fo’ in de others. Dere’s five in one.”
“Bullshit. Keep goin’.”
“Been over de whole freight, man. Dere’s only two o’ you.” The voice was young. “I’m comin’ down.”
“You try it! I’m tellin’ you, boy. Two’s enough down here.”
The figure peering down from above didn’t seem so much uncertain as restrained, trying to sense by instinct what the temper was below, the forces he had to brace himself to confront.
“For Christ sake, let him come down,” I whispered.
“What for? Fuck’s too lazy to go all the way up to the locomotive. There’s lots o’ reefers.”
“That hatch cover! Jesus, if he locked us in— You crazy?”
“I’m comin’ down, man.”
Raised all the way, the hatch opened into a transom gorged with stars. Cascades of starlight poured through the gaping sluice above as he stooped, took his first step down, his booted foot seeking the rung below; and before he closed the hatch, stemming the flood of starlight above him, something—something metallic—glinted in the same hand. Down he came to the reefer bottom—woefully underclad, only a jacket over his shirt. With hands in pockets, “Man, I’m cold. Gettin’ out o’ dat wind like comin’ to a stove.”
“It’s all right,” I said.
Johnny moved silently to my side of the compartment.
“I guess we got room,” I said. “Where were you?”
“In a gondola. Layin’ flat an’ huggin’ de bottom. Man, I like to freeze to death. I said I gotta get outa here, I gotta get outa here, ’fo’ I freeze stiff. I tried ridin’ behind a tank car. Too cold to live.”
“You want a smoke?”
“Sleep. Dat’s what I want, man.” He took his hand out of his jacket pocket. “I ’fraid to go to sleep in dat gondola. If I fall asleep in dat gondola, dey pick me up froze harder’n a rock. This is the fust time I feel safe to sleep.”
Drawing his knees up, his small hat jammed down on his head, he slipped to the reefer floor, and as he turned on his side he retrieved a short length of glinting metal from his jacket pocket, slid the hand holding the object between the curved steel bars of the drain, and deposited the glinting piece on the drip pan beneath. He was asleep in a minute—coughed himself awake; his hand groped between drainage bars, and, reassured, he stretched out his legs as far as he could, hat still jammed down on his small head, motionless, audibly, he fell asleep.
“He’s got a knife,” Johnny whispered.
“I guess so.”
“Son of a bitch. That’s why he come down. Two of us, he figured, an’ he’s got a knife.”
“What the hell’s the difference?” I hissed. “He’s asleep, isn’t he? That’s all he wanted.”
“How do you know?”
“Oh, bullshit.” The pervasive shadowy Jew in the background flinched against myriad wounds suffered in centuries past. “Listen, Johnny, I’m not going to argue about it. It’s a waste of time. You want to stretch out and go to sleep? Go ahead. I can’t sleep. I’ll—I’ll watch.”
 
“I’m not afraid of him. It ain’t that. They’re all yeller anyway. It’s just that nobody else’d let him down, an’ we did. Shit, they’d tell him there was six in the reefer.”
An angry silence. Better keep quiet. Futile: you’ll never penetrate that barrier; you don’t even understand it, can’t put it into words. Screwy. No more sense than a puppy dog chasing his tail. Think of something else.
I slid down to his end of the steel bars of the drainage floor. “Ow.” Released from aching knees, I welcomed the few minutes of respite before the rigid scimitars against my buttocks supplanted old pain with new.
“I can see what he’s got.” Johnny settled beside him.
“You can?” Listlessly, “What?”
“Table knife, that’s all. It’s no goddam razor.”
“All right. I got a jackknife. How’s that?”
“Better git it out an’ keep it open. Just keep it open in your jacket pocket.”
“Oh, for Christ sake.” Peevishly, I rolled my rump away from the biting drainage bars, pulled the jackknife out of my back pocket, opened the three-inch Boy Scout blade, and exhibited it.
“You stab with it,” Johnny said. “Go right for the belly. Know what I mean? You hold the blade down with your thumb and stab.”
“Oh, nuts.” I dropped the open jackknife into my jacket pocket.
“Yeah?”
“Yeah,” I retorted angrily. “You know what I think? You got it ass backward. That poor colored guy is carrying that cheesy knife to protect himself. That’s why. They wouldn’t let him into any of the reefers. You can tell why he came down here. If he was going to fight for his life to keep from freezing, we were his best chance. Jesus, can’t you see that? The guy’s sleeping on that goddam steel like a feather bed. Look at him. He hasn’t moved an inch in all this time. Doesn’t hear us. Anything. He’s absolutely worn out.”
“Worn out, my ass. He’s used to it. You don’t know these fuckin’ niggers. They’re tougher’n rawhide.”
“O.K. I’ve had enough. I don’t want to talk about it anymore.”
Bang and jerk of freight-car coupling. Each time the car slacked its motion over flat [REDACTED], I reflected, the locomotive had to jerk it onward. That goddam boob and his nigger nuttiness had me sitting here with an open Boy Scout knife in my jacket pocket. Christ, absent-minded as I was—and cold—I was apt to cut myself before I cut anybody else. I ought to snap the blade closed before I thrust my hand in my pocket to warm my fingers. Boy, that crazy [REDACTED] bastard. Wasn’t he crazy?
“Want the tobacco?” I made a peace overture.
“Nah. . . . Thanks. I’m beginnin’ to feel like a little shut-eye again.”
“Yeah? Wish I could say the same. I feel it, but it doesn’t do me any good.”
“What’re you gonna do? Be a watchman till light?”
“I don’t know. It looks that way.”
“Aw, let’s have a smoke, if you’re not going to sleep. O.K.?” I brought out the can of Prince Albert. We rolled cigarettes, struck a match, lighting up the thin, jackknifed form sound asleep on the gleaming steel drainage bars. We smoked in silence.
Nothing to do. Lead the way. Pretend to sleep. Maybe the guy would follow suit, and we could drop the subject. I mashed the half-smoked cigarette against a drainage bar, curled on my side. Room enough for my shoes to the side of the sleeper’s boots . . .
The stratagem worked. In a few minutes, when I cautiously lifted my head to peer, with arm pillowing face, Johnny’s dark form lay bunched in sleep. Jesus, the arch-enemies, offset, end to end, nether to nether, like a what? Couldn’t think of anything. Feet to feet. Two feet to feet. Eine kleine Nachtmusik . . . in a reefer . . .
That was sleep coming on, sleep. Ah, sleep, it is a precious thing, beloved from pole to pole . . . Oh, threshold, beautiful threshold of let go.
Utterly spent, I slept until after daybreak, until after morning light was framed in the rigged hatch overhead, unaware that my two fellow-travellers were standing hunched over at opposite walls of the reefer, saying little. I awoke when the freight’s tempo changed, the slowing down of motion allowing the distinct creak of car and train tracks beneath to emerge from the roar.
“We comin’ to de yahds,” the young Negro said, slender and limber, now that I could see him—and chipper, too, in movement. He had apparently slept the night through from the minute he lay down.
“We’re gittin’ to El Paso,” Johnny said. “C’mon, wake up. We got to get ready to get off her.”
Dreary and stiff, I got to my feet.
“No bull ketch me climbin’ down,” the Negro youth announced confidently. “Ah run him a race on de roof to a gondola, an’ den oveh de other side.”
“Yeah? What if he pulls a gun?”
“Ah jump the other side of de freight, man, like I tol’ you, ’fo’ I let him pistol-whip me.”
He seemed capable of it, too, lithe and agile. And as the train kept up its moderate, even rate of speed, he knelt down on one knee, slipped his brown flat wrist through the space between the drainage rails, and brought out the ordinary table knife we had seen him secrete there the night before. The streaked roughness of the crudely sharpened blade flashed a moment in daylight. He dropped it into his jacket pocket. Dully, I weighed his motives. Certainly he wouldn’t dare—against a railroad bull, a man armed with a gun?
In [REDACTED]? Jesus, he’d be lynched! Why had he waited until daylight to retrieve the weapon . . . to display it?
Johnny’s warning interrupted my foggy groping. His words came in a lowered voice and with a kind of worried severity, and, to my surprise, were not about the Negro youth. “You see one, a big guy—”
“Who?”
“A railroad bull, for Chrissake. You gotta get down an’ away fast. You woke up yet?”
“Yeah. What does he do? Wait for every freight that comes in?”
“No. But you never know when he’s around. Loosen up. Stamp your feet, wave your arms. C’mon.”
“Jesus, I had a helluva night.”
“He won’t give a shit about that. Loosen up.” He moved his own arms in prompting, kept a steady gaze on the Negro youth.
 
Who smiled. “Yeah, man, y’gotta git ready to hightail it outa them yahds. What if he [REDACTED] Slim?” He allowed himself a gleeful chuckle. “He fast on his feet.”
The freight slowed, slowed, jarred, came to a clashing stop, though we still felt in motion. Already the Negro youth had mounted the ladder and was climbing. Speedy and sure, his arm thrust back the hatch. Another rung upward and he heaved himself into open air; he sprang into daylight and disappeared. By the time I mounted the lower rungs, I could hear him climbing down the outside. And up, Johnny crowding behind me let the hatch fall back. Broad daylight. Blue dome of sky. Freight-car roofs in all directions. I had lived through it.
 
I jumped off the bottom rung down to the ground. But the Negro youth was tarrying there, and now I could guess, guess with a degree of certainty, at the same time oddly conscious that I felt no alarm. Standing between ramparts of brick-red and yellow freights, open gondolas, and tank cars, the brown youth in the small, earth-colored hat eyed us, me in particular, right hand in jacket pocket.
“Ah’m hungry, man.”
“So’re we,” Johnny said.
“Sell you my boots, man.” He pulled up his pants, bringing into view stockingless, lean brown shins above the edge of typical cowboy boots. “What y’all say? Sell ’em to yo’ fo’ jest a little money.”
The thoughts that scurry through the mind: the whole proposition was preposterous. What the hell was he going to wear? And walk on this gravel? On streets? And in the cold? His wily eyes in his small head, watchful of every move, his wiry, quick body, ready for something, practiced, free and supple as a lynx. And a wickedly sharpened dinner knife hidden in his jacket pocket. And the two of us, yes, Johnny, shallow hard guy, and I, uncertain, untried, had to think of a way out of this, this emergency. Who the hell wanted his boots? He just wanted me to show some money. Forestall him somehow. Say O.K., and ask him how much, ask him to take them off. “Listen,” I said solicitously, “you need those boots. How’re you gonna get around?”
“Ah needs breakfas’ mo’n ah needs these boots right now.”
“Well, that’s different. You’d be crippled without boots. Wait a minute.”
Large-eyed, askance, and as sidelong as a profile out of [REDACTED], he watched me, the knuckles of his left hand bulging out the thin cloth of the jacket pocket. I fished into my topcoat. I knew there was a dime among the change there. I didn’t want to show any more money than that. But I had forgotten the open Boy Scout knife. It nicked me. Strange, strange: collapsed into unimaginable density as they say happened to a neutron star, all my history seemed in that instant, all its tenets, its dictates. Johnny beside me became tense, as my fingers avoided the open blade and fished for the dime. “Here, keep your boots. Take this dime. Get yourself something to eat.” I handed the youth the dime, conscious of Johnny’s scowl.
“Thanks, man.” Lissome again, he took the coin; or, rather, he accepted it, entirely without subservience or obligation, but with a short, triumphant laugh, turning, swiftly, strode jauntily away into the motley perspective between converging freights.
“What the hell’d you give him the dough for?” Johnny’s tough visage grimaced. Under the visor of his cap his brow furrowed in a scowl; even his short body all but flapped in a spasm of wrath, so pronounced it gave one the impression of a ripple contrary to the wave, pulses contrary to his stride. We hurried toward a break in the double lines of freights. “We coulda took care of him.”
I couldn’t help but grin. “Maybe.”
“What d’ye mean, maybe? I wouldn’t let no nigger ride over me.”
“I know.” But my mind seemed to be sifting out something worth a minute’s consideration. A kind of insight: that wasn’t the way—this was the important thing—a Negro was supposed to behave. That was it: not the cocksureness, no; then what? A sense of equality, independence. Sure, he had deliberately displayed the weapon to cow us. Or he would have grabbed the dough and run. And he was fast enough to get away. O.K. Whatever. Was I imagining things? Was it really a sign of change? A new stance of the Negro, a new attitude. “It’s only a dime.”
Johnny seemed to be going through some kind of parallel evaluation, but one that reached an entirely opposite judgment: “Sure it’s only a dime. But you let him git the better of you, you let him git ahead of you.”
“Oh, balls.” I tossed my head. “Get into a fight with a guy with a knife. For a dime?”
“I told you we oughta git that cheese dagger away from him while he was asleep. You saw him.”
“Well, we didn’t. And now get your throat slashed for ten cents.”
“He never would’ve. If we jumped him together, never. If he’d knowed you had a open jackknife, he never would’ve tried it.”
“Well, it wasn’t open.”
“What for you got your finger scratched?”
“I don’t know. Must have done it some other time.” Johnny clawed the air in frustration.
“Jesus.” I tried to shunt the conversation into other channels. “He turned out of sight about here, didn’t he?” I leaned forward to squint ahead. “How come we can’t find it?”
“We’re comin’ to it. There. I can see the snubbers at the end o’ the tracks. Trouble is you Northe’ners don’t know niggers. You keep lettin’ ’em git more an’ more outa their place. They’ll git us all down that way.”
“O.K. I see it. Boy, look at those lines of freights behind us.”
“It’s El Paso. It’s a big junction.”
Grumpy with each other but trying to reach an accommodation of necessity, knowing that we had to, we let the subject drop. With Johnny leading the way, in silence, like a short bridge to the commonplace, we rounded the spring snubber at the end of a line of freights and tramped out of the yard up the incline to the blacktop highway at the edge. We were now off railroad property, out of danger, in the clear, a couple of grouchy, slouchy, seedy hobos walking by the run-down dwellings at the outskirts of El Paso. 

