  FICTION  FOLIE  A  DEUX  BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR  Aware  of  a  presence  close  to  him,  Wilby  glances  up  from  the  book  he  has  just  begun  to  read.  The  man  standing  there  says  nothing.  He  doesn't  smile.  A  dishcloth  hangs  from  where  it's  tucked  into  grubby  apron  strings  knotted  at  the  front,  and  Wilby  assumes  that  the  man  is  anenvoy  sent  from  the  kitchen  to  apolo-  gize  for  the  delay  in  the  cooking  of  the  fish  he  has  ordered.  The  place  is  modest,  in  the  Rue  Piques,  off  the  Rue  de  Sévres;  Wilby  didn't  notice  what  it  is  called.  A  café  as  much  as  a  bras-  serie,  itis  poorly  illuminated  except  for  the  bar,  at  which  a  couple  are  hunched  over  their  glasses,  conversing  softly.  One  of  the  cafés  tables  is  occupied  by  four  elderly  women  playing  cards,  and  there  are  a  few  people  at  tables  in  the  brasserie.  Still  without  communicating,  the  man  who  has  come  from  the  kitchen  turns  and  goes  away,  leaving  Wilby  with  the  im-  pression  that  he  has  been  mistaken  for  someone  else.  He  pours  himself  more  wine  and  reads  again.  Wilby  reads  a  lot,  and  drinks  a  lot.  He  is  a  spare,  sharp-faced  man  in  his  forties,  clean-shaven,  in  a  gray  suit,  with  a  striped  blue-and-red  tie  striking  a  styl-  ish  note.  He  visits  [REDACTED]  once  in  a  while  to  make  the  rounds  of  salerooms  special-  izing  in  rare  postage  stamps,  usually  spinning  out  his  time  when  he  is  there,  since  he  can  afford  to.  Three  years  ago  he  inherited  hisfamily's  wine  business  in  Ireland,  which  he  sold  eighteen  months  later,  planning  to  live  on  the  proceeds  while  he  indulged  his  interest  in  philat-  ely.  He  occupies,  alone  now,  the  house  he  also  inherited  at  thattime,  creeper-  clad,  just  outside  the  County  West-  meath  town  where  he  was  born.  Mar-  riage  failed  him  there,  or  he  it,  and  he  doubts  that  he  will  make  another  at-  tempt  inthat  direction.  His  food  is  brought  to  him  by  a  small,  old  waiter,  a  more  presentable  figure  than  the  man  who  came  and  went.  He  is  atten-  tive,  addressing  Wilby  in  conventional  waiter's  terms  and  supplying,  when  they  are  asked  for,  salt  and  pepper  from  an-  other  table.  &quot;Voila,  Monsieur,&quot;  he  mur-  murs,  his  tone  apologetic.  w  Wilby  eats  his  fish,  wondering  what  €  fish  it  is.  He  knew  when  he  ordered  it  3  but  has  since  forgotten,  and  the  taste  Z  doesn't  tell  him  much.  The  bread  is  the  2  bestpart  of  his  meal  and  he  catches  the  E  waiter's  attention  to  ask  for  more.  His  book  is  a  paperback  he  hasread  before,  &quot;The  Hand  of  Ethelberta.&quot;  He  reads  another  page,  orders  more  wine,  finishes  the  pommes  frites  but  not  the  fish.  He  likes  quiet  places,  and  doesn't  hurry.  He  orders  coffee  and-though  not  intending  to-a  Calvados.  He  drinks  too  much,  he  tells  himself,  and  restrains  the  inclination  to  have  another  when  the  coffee  comes.  He  reads  again,  indulging  the  pleasure  of  being  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  brasse-  rie  where  Muzak  isn't  playing,  at  a  small  corner  table,  engrossed  in  a  story  that's  fa-  miliar  yet  has  receded  sufficiently  to  be  blurred  in  places,  like  something  good  re-  membered.  He  never  minds  it  when  the  food  isn't  up  to  much;  wine  matters  more,  and  peace.  He'll  walk  back  to  the  Hotel  Merneuil;  with  luck  he'll  be  successful  in  the  salerooms  tomorrow.  He  gestures  for  his  bill,  and  pays.  The  old  waiter  has  his  overcoat  ready  for  him  at  the  door,  and  Wilby  tips  him  a  little  for  that.  Outside,  it  being  late  November,  the  night  is  chilly.  The  man  who  came  to  look  at  him  is  there  on  the  street,  still  dressed  as  he  was  then.  He  stands  still,  not  speaking.  He  might  have  come  outside  to  have  a  ciga-  rette,  as  waiters  sometimes  do.  But  there  is  no  cigarette.  &quot;Bonsoir,&quot;  Wilby  says.  &quot;Bonsoir.&quot;  Saying  that,  quite  suddenly  the  man  is  someone  else.  A  resemblance  flickers:  the  smooth  black  hair,  the  head  like  the  rounded  end  of  a  bullet,  the  fringe  that  is  not  as  once  it  was  but  still  a  fringe,  the  dark  eyes.  There  is  a  way  of  standing,  without  unease  or  agitation  and  yet  awk-  ward,  hands  lank,  open.  &quot;What  is  all  this?&quot;  Even  as  he  putsthe  question,  Wilby's  choice  of  words  sounds  absurd  to  him.  &quot;Anthony?&quot;  he  says.  There  is  a  movement,  a  hand's  half  gesture,  meaningless,hardly  a  response.  Then  the  man  turns  away,  entering  the  brasserie  by  another  door.  &quot;Anthony,&quot;  Wilby  mutters  again,  but  only  to  himself.  People  have  said  that  Anthony  is  dead.  he  streets  are  emptier  than  they  were,  the  bustle  of  the  pavements  gone.  Obedient  to  pedestrian  lights  at  the  Rue  de  Babylone,  where  there  is  fast-moving  traffic  again,  Wilby  waits  with  a  woman  in  a  pale  waterproof  coat,  her  legs  slim  be-  neath  it,  blond  hair  brushed  up.  Not  wanting  to  think  about  Anthony,  he  wonders  if  she's  a  tart,  since  she  has  that  look,  and  for  a  moment  sees  her  palecoat  thrown  down  in  some  small  room,  the  glow  of  an  electric  fire,  money  placed  on  a  dressing  table:  now  and  again  when  he  travels  he  has  a  woman.  But  this  one  doesn't  glance  at  him,  and  the  red  light  changes  to  green.  It  couldn't  possibly  have  been  An-  thony;  of  course  it  couldn't.  Even  assum-  ing  that  Anthony  is  alive,  why  would  he  be  employed  as  a  kitchen  worker  in  [REDACTED]?  &quot;Yes,  I'm  afraid  we  fear  the  worst,&quot;  his  fa-  ther  said  on  the  telephone,  years  ago  now.  &quot;He  sent  a  few  belongings  here,  but  that's  a  good  while  back.  A  note  to  you,  unfinished,  was  caught  up  in  the  pages  of  a  book.  Nothing  in  it,  really.  Your  name,  no  more.&quot;  In  the  Rue  du  Bac  there  is  a  window  Wilby  likes,  with  prints  of  the  Revolution.  The  display  has  hardly  changed  since  he  was  here  last:  the  death  of  Marie  Antoi-  nette,  the  Girondists  on  their  way  to  the  guillotine,  the  storming  of  the  [REDACTED],  Danton's  death,  Robespierre  triumphant,  Robespierre  fallen  from  grace.  Details  aren't  easy  to  make  out  in  the  dim  street  light.  Prints  he  hasn't  seen  before  arein-  distinguishable  at  the  back.  At  a  bar  he  has  another  Calvados.  He  said  himself  when  people  asked  him-a  few  had  once-that  he,  too,  imagined  An-  thony  was  dead.  A  disappearance  so  pro-  longed,  with  no  reports  of  even  a  glimpse  as  the  years  advanced,  did  appear  to  confirm  a  conclusion  that  became  less  ten-  tative  and,  in  theend,  wasn't  tentative  at  all.  In  the  Rue  Montalembert  a  coupleask  for  directions  to  the  Métro.  Wilby  points  it  out,  walking  back  a  little  way  with  them  to  do  so,  as  grateful  for  this  interruption  as  he  was  when  the  woman  at  the  traffic  crossing  caught  his  interest.  &quot;Bonne  nuit,  Monsieur.&quot;  In  the  hall  of  the  Hotel  Merneuil  the  night  por-  ter  holds  open  the  lift  doors.  He  closes  them,  and  the  lift  begins  its  smooth  ascent.  &quot;The  will  to  go  on  can  fall  away,  you  know,&quot;  Anthony's  father  said  on  the  telephone  again,  in  touch  to  find  out  if  there  was  anything  to  report.  Jothy  shakes  his  head  over  the  «pay  packet  that  hasn't  been  picked  up.  It's  on  the  windowsill  above  the  sinks,  where  others  have  been  ig-  nored,  too.  He  writes  a  message  on  it  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  24,  2006  GI  and  props  it  against  an  empty  bottle.  At  this  late  hour  M.  Jothy  has  the  kitchen  tohimself,  a  time  for  assessing  what  needs  to  be  ordered,  for  satisfying  himself  that,  in  general,  the  kitchen  is  managing.  He  picks  up  Jean-Andrés  note  of  what  he  particularly  requires  for  tomor-  row  and  checks  the  shelves  where  the  cleaning  materials  are  kept.  He  has  re-  cently  become  suspicious  of  Jean-André,  suspecting  shortcuts.  His  risotto,  once  an  attraction  on  the  menu,  is  scarcely  ever  or-  dered  now;  and  with  reason,in  M.  Jothy's  opinion,  since  it  has  lost  the  intensity  of  flavor  that  made  it  popular,  and  is  often  dry.  But  the  kitchen  at  least  is  clean,  and  M.  Jothy,  examining  cutlery  and  plates,  fails  tofind  food  clinging  anywhere,  ora  rim  left  on  a  cup.  Once  he  employed  two  dishwashers  at  the  sinks,  but  now  one  does  it  on  his  own,  and  half  the  time  for-  gets  his  wages.  Anxious  to  keephim,  M.  Jothy  has  wondered  about  finding  some-  where  for  him  to  sleep  on  the  premises  in-  stead  of  having  the  long  journey  to  and  from  his  room.  But  there  isn't  even  a  cor-  ner  of  a  pantry,  and  when  he  asked  in  the  neighborhood  about  accommodation  he  was  also  unsuccessful.  The  dishcloths,  washed  and  rinsed,  are  draped  on  the  radiators  and  will  be  dry  by  the  morning,  the  soup  bowls  are  stacked;  the  glasses,  in  their  rows,  gleam  on  the  side  table.  &quot;Tres  bon,  tres  bon,&quot;  M.  Jothy  murmurs  before  he  turns  the  lights  out  and  locks  up.  ‘  N  Jilby  does  not  sleep  and  cannot  read,  although  he  tries  to.  A  marvel,  isn't  it?  Miss  Davally  said,  the  memory  vivid,  as  if  she'd  said  it  yester-  day.  You  wouldn't  think  apricots  would  so  easily  ripen  in  such  a  climate,  she  said.  Even  on  a  wall  lined  with  brick  you  wouldn't  think  it.  She  pointed  at  the  branches  sprawled  out  along  their  wires,  andyou  could  see  the  fruit  in  little  clus-  ters.  &quot;Delphiniums,&quot;  she  said,  pointing  again,  and  one  after  another  named  the  flowers  they  passed  on  their  way  through  the  garden.  &quot;And  this  is  Anthony,&quot;  she  said  in  the  house.  The  boy  looked  up  from  the  playing  cards  he  had  spread  out  on  the  floor.  &quot;What's  his  name?&quot;  he  asked,  and  Miss  Davally  said  he  knew  because  she  had  told  him  already.  But  even  so  she  told  him  again.  &quot;Why's  he  called  that?&quot;  Anthony  asked.  &quot;Why're  you  calledthat?&quot;  62  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  24,  2006  &quot;It's  my  name.&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  play  in  the  garden?&quot;  That  first  day,  and  every  day  afterward,  there  were  gingersnap  biscuits  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  morning.  &quot;Am  I  older  than  you?&quot;  Anthony  asked.  &quot;Issix  older?&quot;  He  had  ahouse,  he  said,  in  the  bushes  at  the  end  of  the  garden,  and  they  pretended  there  was  a  house.  &quot;Jericho  he'scalled,&quot;  Anthony  said  of  the  dog  that  followed  them  about,  a  black  Labrador  with  an  in-  jured  leg  that  hung  limply,  thirteen  years  old.  &quot;Miss  Davally  was  an  orphan,&quot;  An-  thony  said.  &quot;That's  why  she  lives  with  us.  Do  you  know  what  an  orphan  is?&quot;  In  the  yard  the  horses  looked  out  over  the  half  doors  of  their  stables;  the  hounds  were  in  a  smaller  yard.  Anthony's  mother  was  never  at  lunch  because  her  horse  and  the  hounds  were  exercised  then.  But  his  father  always  was,  each  time  wearing  a  different  tweed  jacket,  his  gray  mustache  clipped  short,  the  olives  he  likedto  see  on  the  lunch  table  always  there,  the  whiskey  he  took  forhis  health.  &quot;Well,  young  chap,  how  are  you?&quot;  he  always  asked.  On  wet  days  they  played  marbles  in  the  kitchen  passages,  with  the  dog  stretched  out  beside  them  on  the  stone  floor.  &quot;You  come  to  the  seain  summer,&quot;  Anthony  said.  &quot;They  told  me.&quot;  It  was  Miss  Davally  who  had  told  him,  know-  ing  about  the  family  who  came  everyJuly  to  the  same  holiday  cottage  on  the  cliff  above  the  bay  that  didn't  have  a  name.  Miss  Davally  knew  about  everyone  in  the  neighborhood,  even  people  who  didn't  quite  belong  to  it.  The  July  visitors  made  the  long  journey  south  from  County  Westmeath-a  provincial  winemer-  chant  and  his  wife,  a  child  who  might  be  lonely,  not  having  brothersor  sisters,  as  Anthony  hadn't,  either.  &quot;It's  not  an  intru-  sion  I  hope?&quot;  she  apologized  when  she  called  on  them,  and  was  friendlily  reas-  sured.  Afterward,  when  the  boys  them-  selves  became  friends,  she  often  drove  Anthony  to  the  cottage  on  the  cliff,  so  that  hospitality  might  be  returned.  An  outing  for  her,too,  she  used  to  say,  and  sometimes  she  brought  a  cake  she'd  made,  being  in  the  way  of  bringing  a  present  when  she  went  to  people's  houses.  She  liked  it  at  the  sea  as  much  as  An-  thony  did;  she  liked  to  turn  the  wheel  of  the  bellows  in  the  kitchen  of  the  cottage  and  watch  the  sparks  flying  up  while  she  heard  about  life  in  a  sleepy  Westmeath  town.  And  Anthony  liked  the  hard  sand  of  the  shore,  and  collecting  flint  stones,  and  netting  shrimps.  The  dog  prowled  about  the  rocks,  sniffing  the  seaweed,  clawing  at  the  sea  anemones.  &quot;Our  house,&quot;  Anthony  called  thecave  they  found  when  theycrawled  through  an  opening  in  the  rocks,  acave  no  one  knew  was  there.  Air  from  the  window  Wilby  slightly  opens  at  the  top  is  refreshing  and  brings  with  it,  for  a  moment,  the  chiming  of  two  o'clock.  His  book  is  open,  face  downward  to  keep  his  place,his  bedside  light  still  on.  But  the  dark  is  better,  and  he  extinguishes  it.  There  was  ablue  vase  in  the  recess  of  the  staircase  wall,  nothing  else  there;  and  paperweights  crowded  the  shallow  land-  ing  shelves,  all  touching  one  another-  forty-six  of  them,  Anthony  said.  His  mother  played  the  piano  in  the  drawing  room.  &quot;Hullo,&quot;  she  said,  holdingouther  hand  and  smiling.  She  wasn't  much  like  someone  who  exercised  foxhounds;  slim  and  small  and  wearing  scent,  she  was  also  beautiful.  &quot;Look!&quot;  Anthony  said,  pointing  at  the  lady  in  thepainting  above  the  man-  telpiece  in  the  hall.  Miss  Davally  was  a  distant  relative  as  well  as  being  an  orphan,  and  when  she  sat  on  the  sand  after  her  swim  she  often  talked  about  her  own  childhood  in  the  house  where  she'd  been  given  a  home:  how  a  particularly  unpleasant  boy  used  to  creep  up  on  her  and  pull  a  cracker  in  her  ear,  how  she  hatedher  ribboned  pigtails  and  persuaded  a  simple-minded  maid  to  cut  them  off,  how  she  taught  the  kitchen  cat  to  dance  and  how  people  said  they'd  never  seen  the  like.  Every  lunchtime  Anthony's  father  kept  going  a  conversation  about  a  world  that  was  not  yet  known  to  his  listeners.  He  spoke  affectionately  of  the  playboy  pugilist  Jack  Doyle,  demonstrating  the  subtlety  of  his  right  punch  and  recalling  the  wonders  of  his  hell-raising  before  poverty  claimed  him.  He  told  of  the  ex-  ploits  of  an  ingenious  escapologist,  Major  Pat  Reid.  He  condemned  the  first  Earl  of  Inchiquin  as  the  most  disgraceful  man  ever  tostep  out  of  Ireland.  Much  other  information  was  passed  on  at  the  lunch  table:  why  airplanes  flew,  how  clocks  kept  time,  why  spiders  spun  their  webs  and  how  they  did  it.  Informa-  tion  was  everything,  Anthony's  father  maintained,  and  its  lunchtime  dissemina-  tion,  with  Miss  Davally's  reminiscences,  nurtured  curiosity;  the  unknown  became  a  fascination.  &quot;What  would  happen  if  you  didn't  eat?&quot;  Anthony  wondered;  and  there  were  attempts  to  see  if  it  was  possible  to  create  a  rainbow  with  a  water  hose  when  the  sun  was  bright,  the  discovery  made  that,  in  fact,  it  was.  A  jellyfish  was  scooped  intoa  shrimp  net  to  see  if  it  would  perish  or  survive  when  it  was  tipped  out  onto  the  sand.  Miss  Davally  saidto  put  it  back,  and  warned  that  jellyfish  could  sting  as  terri-  bly  as  wasps.  A  friendship  developed  between  Miss  Davally  and  Wilby's  mother-a  formal  association,  first  names  not  called  upon,  neither  in  conversation  nor  in  the  letters  that  came  to  be  exchanged  from  one  sum-  mer  to  the  next.  Anthony  is  said  to  be  clever,  Miss  Davally's  spidery  handwriting  told.  And  then,  as  if  that  perhaps  required  wa-  tering  down,  We/Z,  so  they  say.  It  was  re-  ported  also  that  when  each  July  drew  near  Anthony  began  to  count  the  days.  He  va/-  ues  the  friendship  so!  Miss  Davally  com-  mented.  How  fortunate  for  two  only  chil-  dren  such  a  friendship  is!  Fortunate  indeed  it  seemed  to  be.  There  was  no  quarrelling,  no  vying  for  au-  thority,  no  competing.  When,  one  sum-  mer,  a  yellow  Li-Lo  raft  washed  up,  still  inflated,  it  was  taken  to  the  cave  that  no  one  else  knew  about,  neither  claiming  that  it  was  his  because  he'd  seen  it  first.  &quot;Some-  one  lost  that  thing,&quot;  Anthony  said,  but  no  one  came  looking  for  it.  They  didn't  know  what  it  was,  only  that  it  floated.  They  floated  it  themselves,  theold  dog  limping  behind  them  when  they  carried  it  to  the  sea,  his  tail  wagging  madly,  head  cocked  to  one  side.  In  the  cave  it  became  a  bed  for  him,  to  clamber  onto  when  he  was  tired.  The  Li-Lo  was  another  of  the  friend-  ship's  precious  secrets,  as  the  cave  itself  was.  No  other  purpose  was  found  for  it,  but  its  possession  was  enough  to  make  it  the  highlight  of  that  particular  summer  and  on  the  last  day  of  July  it  was  again  car-  ried  to  the  edge  of  the  sea.  &quot;Now,  now,&quot;  the  dog  was  calmed  when  he  became  excited.  The  waves  that  morning  were  hardly  waves  at  all.  In  the  dark  there  is  a  pinprick  glow  of  red  somewhere  on  the  television  set.  The  air  that  comes  into  the  room  is  colder  now  and  Wilby  closes  the  window  he  has  opened  a  crack,  suppressing  the  murmur  of  a  distant  plane.  Memory  won't  let  him     go  now;  he  knows  it  won't  and  makes  no  effort  to  resist  it.  Nothing  was  said  when  they  watched  the  drowning  of  the  dog.  Old  Jericho  was  clever,  never  at  a  loss  when  there  was  play.  Not  moving,  he  was  obedi-  ent,  as  he  always  was.  He  played  his  part,  going  with  the  Li-Lo  when  it  floated  out,  a  deep  black  shadow,  sharp  against  the  garish  yellow.  They  watched  as  they  had  watched  the  hose-pipe  rainbow  gathering  color,  as  Miss  Davally  said  she'd  watched  the  shaky  steps  of  the  dancing  cat.  Far  away  already,  the  yellow  of  the  Li-Lo  be-  came  a  blur  on  the  water,  was  lost,  was  there  again,  and  lost  again,  and  the  bark-  ingbegan,  and  became  a  wail.  Noth-  ing  was  said  then,  either.  Nor  when  they  clambered  overthe  shingle  and  the  rocks,  and  climbed  up  to  the  shortcut  and  passed  through  the  gorse  field.  From  the  cliff  they  looked  again,  for  the  last  time,  far  out  to  the  horizon.  The  sea  was  undisturbed,  glittering  in  the  sunlight.  &quot;So  what  have  youtwo  been  up  to  this  morning?&quot;  Miss  Davally  asked.  The  next  day,  somewhere  else,  the  dog  washed  in.  Miss  Davally  blamed  herself,  for  that  was  in  her  nature.  But  she  could  not  be  blamed.  It  was  agreed  that  she  could  not  be.  Unaware  of  his  limitations-more  than  a  little  blind,  with  only  three  active  legs-old  Jericho  hadhad  a  way  of  going  into  the  sea  when  he  sensed  a  piece  of  driftwood  bobbing  about.  Once  too  often  he  had  done  that.  His  grave  was  in  the  garden,  a  small  slate  plaque  let  into  the  turf,  his  name  and  dates.  They  didnot  ever  speak  to  one  another  about  the  drowning  of  thedog.  They  did  not  ever  say  they  had  not  meant  it  to  hap-  pen.  There  was  no  blame,  no  accusing.  They  had  not  called  it  a  game,  only  said  they  wonderedwhat  would  happen,  what  the  dog  would  do.  The  silence  had  begun  before  they  pushed  the  Li-Lo  out.  Other  summers  brought  other  inci-  dents,  other  experiences,  but  there  was  no  such  occurrence  again.  There  were  adjust-  ments  in  the  friendship,  since  passing  time  demanded  that,  and  different  games  were  played,  and  there  were  different  con-  versations,  and  new  discoveries.  Then,  one  winter,  a  letter  fromMiss  Davally  was  less  cheerful  than  her  letters  usually  were.  Withdrawn,  shewrote,  and  they  are  concerned.  What  she  declared,  in  detail  after  that,  was  confirmed  when  summer  came.  Anthony  was  different,  and  more  different  still  in  later  sum-  mers-quieter,  timid,  seeming  sometimes  to  be  lost.  It  was  a  mystery  when  the  dog's  gravestone  disappeared  from  the  garden.  In  the  dark,  the  bright-red  dot  of  the  televisionlight  still  piercingly  there,  Wilby  wonders,  as  so  often  he  has,  what  influence  there  was  when,  without  in-  citement  or  persuasion,  without  words,  they  did  what  had  been  done.  They  were  nine  years  old  then,  when  secrets  became  deception.  It  was  snowing  the  evening  he  and  Anthony  met  again,  five  years  later,  both  of  them  waiting  in  the  Chapel  Cloisters  for  their  names,  as  new  boys,  to  be  called  out.  It  was  not  a  surprise  that  Anthony  was  there,  passing  on  from  the  school  that  years  earlier  had  declared  him  clever;  nor  was  it  by  chance  that  they  were  to  be  to-  gether  for  what  remainedof  their  educa-  tion.  &quot;Nice  for  Anthony  to  have  someone  he  knows,&quot;  his  father  said  on  the  tele-  phone,  and  confirmed  that  Anthony  was  still  as  he  had  become.  In  the  dim  evening  light  the  snow  blew  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  24,  2006  63  softly  into  the  Cloisters,  and  when  the  roll  call  ended  and  a  noisy  dispersal  began,  the  solitary  figure  remained,  the  same  smooth  black  hair,  a  way  of  standing  that  hadn't  changed.  &quot;How  are  you?&quot;  Wilby  asked.  His  friend's  smile,  once  so  readily  there,  came  as  a  shadow  and  then  was  lost  in  awkwardness.  Peculiar,  Anthony  was  called  at  school,  but  wasn't  bullied,as  though  it  had  been  realized  that  bullying  would  yield  no  satisfaction.  He  lacked  skill  at  games,  avoided  all  pursuitsthat  were  not  compulsory,  displayed  immediate  evi-  dence  of  his  cleverness,  science  and  mathematical  subjects  his  forte.  Reli-  gious  boys  attempted  to  befriend  him,  believing  that  to  be  a  duty;  kindly  mas-  ters  sought  to  draw  him  out.  &quot;Well,  yes,  I  knew  him,&quot;  Wilby  admitted,  lamely  ex-  plaining  his  association  with  someone  who  was  so  very  much  not  like  the  friends  he  made  now.  &quot;A  long  time  ago,&quot;  he  nearly  always  added.  Sometimes  guilt  pricked.  Passing  the  windows  of  empty  classrooms,  he  sev-  eral  times  noticed  Anthony,  the  only  figure  among  the  unoccupied  desks.  And  often-on  the  drive  that  ended  at  the  school  gates,  or  often  anywhere-  there  was  the  same  lone  figure  in  the  distance.  On  the  golf  course  where  se-  nior  boys  were  allowed  to  play,  Anthony  sometimes  sat  on  a  seat  against  a  wall,  watching  the  golfers  as  they  approached,  watching  them  as  they  walked  on.  He  shied  away  when  conversation  threat-  ened,  creeping  back  into  his  shadowlands.  One  day  he  wasn't  there.  His  books  had  been  left  ti-  dily  in  his  desk,  his  clothes  hanging  inhis  dormitory  locker,  his  pajamas  under  his  pillow.  He  would  be  on  his  way  home,  since  boys  who  kept  themselves  to  them-  selves  were  often  homesick.  But  he  had  not  attempted  to  go  home  and  was  found  still  within  the  school  grounds,  having  broken  no  rules  except  that  he  had  ignored  for  a  day  the  summoning  of  bells.  Dawn  comes  darkly,  and  Wilby  sleeps.  But  his  sleep  is  brief,  his  dreams  forgotten  when  he  wakes.  The  burden  of  guilt  that  came  when  in  si-  lence  they  clambered  over  the  shingle  64  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  24,  2006     and  the  rocks,  when  they  passed  through  the  gorse  field,  was  muddled  by  bewil-  derment,  a  child's  tormenting  panic  not  yet  constrained  by  suppression  as  later  it  would  be.  Long  afterward,  when  first  he  heard  that  Anthony  was  dead-and  when  he  said  it  himself-the  remnantsof  the  shame  guilt  had  become  fell  away.  He  shaves  and  washes,  dresses  slowly.  In  the  hall  the  reception  clerks  have  just  come  on  duty.  They  nod  at  him,  wish  him  good  day.  No  call  this  morning  for  an  umbrella,  one  says.  Outside  it  is  not  entirely  day,  or  even  day  at  all.  The  cleaning  lorries  are  on  the  streets,  water  pouring  in  the  gutters,  but  there's  no  one  about  in  the  Rue  du  Bac,  garbage  bags  still  waiting  to  be  collected.  A  bar  is  open  farther  on,  men  standing  at  the  counter,  disinclined  for  conversa-  tion.  A  sleeping  figure  in  a  doorway  has  not  been  roused.  What  hovel,  Wilby  wonders  as  he  passes,  does  a  kitchen  worker  occupy?  In  the  Rue  Piques  the  brasserie  is  shuttered.  They  might  have  likedto  have  him  there,  conveniently  on  the  premises  at  night,  but  no  lights  are  showing  any-  where.  Cardboard  boxes  are  stacked  closeto  the  glass  of  three  upstairs  win-  dows,  others  are  uncurtained;  none  sug-  gests  the  domesticity  of  a  dwelling.  Le  Pere  Jothy  the  place  is  called.  Wilby  roams  the  nearby  streets.  A  few  more  cafés  are  opening  and  in  one  coffee  is  brought  to  him.  He  sips  it,  breaking  a  croissant.  There's  no  one  else,  except  the  barman.  He  knows  he  should  go  away.  He  should  take  the  trainto  Passy,  to  the  sale-  rooms  he  has  planned  to  visit  there;  he  should  not  ever  return  to  the  Rue  Piques.  He  has  lived  easily  with  an  aberration,  then  shaken  it  off:  what  happened  was  almost  nothing.  Other  men  come  in,  a  woman  on  her  own,  her  face  bruised  on  one  side,  no  effort  made  to  conceal  the  darkening  weals.  Her  voice  is  low  when  she  explains  this  injuryto  the  barman,  her  fingers  now  and  again  touching  it.  Soundlessly,  she  weeps  when  she  has  taken  her  Cognac  to  a  table.  Oh,  this  is  silly!  his  unspoken  com-  ment  was  when  Miss  Davally's  letter  came,  its  implications  apparent  only  to  him.  For  heaven's  sake!  he  crossly  mur-  mured,  the  words  kept  to  himself  when  he  greeted  Anthony  in  the  Cloisters,  and  againevery  time  he  caught  sight  of  him  on  the  golf  course.  The  old  dog's  life  had  been  all  but  over.  And  Wilby  re-  members  now,  as  harshly  as  he  has  in  the  night,  the  bitterness  of  his  resent-  ment  when  a  friendship  he  delighted  in  was  destroyed,  when  Anthony's  world-  thegarden,the  house,  his  mother,  his  father,  Miss  Davally-was  no  longer  there.  &quot;He  has  no  use  for  us,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;No  use  for  anyone,  we  think.&quot;  Turning  into  the  Rue  Piques,  An-  thony  notices  at  once  the  figure  waiting  outside  the  ribbon  shop.  It  is  November  the  twenty-fourth,  the  last  Thursday  of  the  month.  This  day  won't  come  again.  &quot;Bonjour,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;How  are  you,  Anthony?&quot;  And  Anthony  says  that  Monday  is  the  closed  day.  Not  that  Sunday  isn't,  too.  If  someone  waited  outside  the  rib-  bon  shop  on  a  Monday  or  a  Sunday  it  wouldn't  be  much  good.  Not  that  many  people  wait  there.  Wind  blows  a  scrap  of  paper  about,  close  to  where  they  stand.  In  the  window  of  the  ribbon  shop  coils  of  ribbon  are  in  all  widths  and  colors,  and  there  are  swatches  of  trimming  for  other  purposes,  lace  and  velvet,  and  plain  white  edging,  and  a  display  of  button  cards.  Anthony  often  looks  to  see  if  there  has  been  a  change,  but  there  never  has  been.  &quot;How  are  you,  Anthony?&quot;  It  is  a  fragment  of  a  whitepaper  bag  that  is  blown  about,  and  Anthony  iden-  tifies  it  from  the  remains  of  the  red  script  that  advertises  the  bow/amgerie  in  the  Rue  Dupin.  When  it  is  blown  closer  to  him  he  catches  it  under  his  shoe.  &quot;People  have  wondered  where  you  are,  Anthony.&quot;  &quot;I  wentaway  from  [REDACTED];  Anthony  bends  and  picks  up  the  lit-  ter  he  has  trapped.  He  says  he  has  the  ovens  to  do  today.  A  Thursday,  and  he  works  in  the  morning.  &quot;Miss  Davally  still  writes,  Anthony,  wondering  if  there  is  news  of  you.&quot;  Half  past  eight  is  his  time  on  Thurs-  days.  Anthony  says  that,  and  adds  that  there's  never  a  complaint  in  the  kitchen.  One  speck  on  the  prong  of  a  fork  could  lead  to  a  complaint,  ashred  of  fish  skin  could,  a  cabbage  leaf.  But  there's  never  a  complaint.  &quot;People  thought  you  were  dead,  Anthony.&quot;  ilby  says  he  sold  the  wine  shop.  He'd  described  it  once,  when  they  were  children:  the  shelves  of  bot-  tles,  the  different  shapes,  their  contents  red  or  white,  pink  if  people  wanted  that.  He  tasted  wine  a  few  times,  he  remem-  bers  saying.  &quot;Your  father  has  died  himself,  An-  thony.  Your  mother  has.  Miss  Davally  was  left  the  house  because  there  was  no  one  else.  She  lives  there  now.&quot;  No  response  comes;  Wilby  has  not  expected  one.  He  has  become  a  philat-  elist,  he  says.  Anthony  nods,  waiting  to  cross  the  street.  He  knows  his  father  died,  his  mother,  too.  He  has  guessed  Miss  Davally  inherited  the  house.  The  deaths  were  in  the  Irish  Times,  which  he  always  read,  cover  to  cover,  all  the  years  he  was  the  night  porter  at  the  Cliff  Castle  Hotel  in  Dalkey.  He  doesn't  mention  the  Cliff  Cas-  tle  Hotel.  He  doesn't  say  he  missesthe  Irish  Times,  the  familiar  names,  the  po-  litical  news,  the  photographs  of  places,  the  change  there  is  in  Ireland  now.  Le  Monde  is  more  staid,  more  circumspect,  more  serious.  Anthony  doesn't  say  that,  either,  because  he  doubts  that  it's  of  in-  terest  to  a  visitor  in  [REDACTED].  A  gap  comes  in  the  stream  of  cars  that  has  begun  to  go  by;  butnot  trusting  this  opportunity,  Anthony  still  waits.  He  is  careful  on  the  streets,  even  though  he  knows  them  well.  &quot;I  haven't  died,&quot;  he  says.  Perfectly  together,  they  shared  an  act  that  was  too  shameful  to  commit  alone,  taking  a  chance  on  a  sunny  morn-  ing  to  discover  if  an  old  dog's  cleverness  would  see  to  his  survival.  For  a  moment,  while  Anthony  loses  another  opportunity  to  cross  the  street,  Wilby  gathers  into  sentences  how  he  might  attempt  a  denial  that  this  was  how  it  was,  how  best  to  put  it  differently.  An  accident,  a  misfortune  beyond  antic-  ipation,  the  unexpected:  with  gentle-  ness,  for  gentleness  is  due,  he  is  about  to  plead.  But  Anthony  crosses  the  street  then,  and  opens  with  a  key  the  side  door  of  the  brasserie.  He  makes  no  gesture  of  farewell,  does  notlook  back.  alking  by  the  river  on  his  way  to  the  salerooms  at  Passy,  Wilby  wishes  he'd  said  he  was  glad  his  friend  was  not  dead.  It  is  his  only  thought.  The  pleasure  boats  slip  by  on  the  water  be-  side  him,  hardly  anyone  on  them.  A  child  waves.  Raised  too  late  in  response,  Wilby's  own  hand  drops  to  his  side.  The  wind  that  blew  the  litter  about  in  the  Rue  Piques  has  freshened.  It  snatches  at  the  remaining  leaves  on  the  black-trunked  trees  that  are  an  orderly  line,  following  the  river's  course.  The  salerooms  are  on  the  other  bank,  near  the  radio  building  and  the  apartment  block  that  change  the  river's  character.  Several  times  he  has  visited  this  vast  display  in  which  the  world's  stamps  are  exhibited,  behind  glass  if  they  are  notably  valuable,  or  on  the  ta-  bles,  country  by  country,  when  they  are  not.  That  busy  image  has  always  excited  Wilby's  imagination  and  as  he  climbs  the  steps  to  thebridge  he  is  near  he  at-  tempts  to  anticipate  it  now,  but  does  not  entirely  succeed.  It  is  not  in  punishment  that  the  ovens  are  cleaned  on  another  Thursday  morn-  ing.  It  is  not  in  expiation  that  soon  the  first  leavings  of  the  day  will  be  scraped  from  the  lunchtime  plates.  There  is  no  bothering  with  redemption.  Looking  down  from  thebridge  at  the  sluggish  flow  of  water,  Wilby  confidently  asserts  that.  A  morning  murkiness,  like  dusk,  has  brought  some  lights  on  in  the  apartment  block.  Traffic  crawls  on  distant  streets.  For  Anthony,  the  betrayal  matters,  the  folly,  the  carelessness  that  would  have  been  forgiven,  the  cruelty.  It  mattered  in  the  silence-while  they  watched,  while  they  clambered  over  the  shingle  and  the  rocks,  while  they  passed  through  the  gorse  field.  It  matters  now.  The  haunted  sea  is  all  the  truth  there  is  for  Anthony,  what  he  honors  because  it  matters  still.  The  buyers  move  among  the  ta-  bles,  and  Wilby  knows  that  for  him,  in  this  safe,  secondhand  world  of  postage  stamps,  tranquillity  will  return.  He  knows  where  he  is  with  all  this;  he  knows  what  he's  about,  as  he  does  in  other  aspects  of  his  tidy  life.  And  yet  this  morning  he  likes  himself  less  than  he  likes  his  friend.             