CARNIVAL, LAS TABLAS
By Cristina Henríquez
like everyone else—that one weekend in February was all I looked forward to. But after going every year for the past eight years, since I was sixteen, and after going to Las Tablas, of all places, the bright and pulsing center of Carnival in [REDACTED], after seeing thousands of people crammed into a few narrow streets and a town square, and being doused by water often enough that I slept in wet clothes, and being awakened by thumping tambourines, and dancing to the comparsas as they paraded down the streets alongside the elaborately attired queens, and baking in the sun, and feeding my flesh to the mosquitoes, and coming home four days later with my whole body sore, and realizing when someone asked if I’d had a good time at Carnival that I could hardly remember one thing that had happened the whole long weekend—after all of that, I’d had enough.
Last night, though, I changed my mind. I was scrubbing makeup off one of my work blouses in the laundry tub when I overheard my mother, on the phone, bragging to a friend that my father had thrown a big party for her birthday a week ago, that he had rented out the whole casino at the Caesar Park and hired dancers with feathers on their heads to bring her a cake—when I heard her lie for him—and I decided maybe I wasn’t so over Carnival after all.
At work today, I ask the girl at the desk next to mine whether there’s room on the bus she’s taking to Carnival. She tells me that the guy who rented the bus sold all the seats in the first week. But she knows another guy, who is leaving for Chitré after work on Friday and who might have room in his car. He has a Land Rover, she explains, and gives me his number. I call him, but his car is full, too. I go through a whole list of phone numbers, with no success. I spend my days answering phones in a bank lobby, so no one suspects that I’m doing anything but work. Finally, at home in the evening, I ask my sister Yesenia if I can ride with her.
“I promised a girl at school she could borrow my car. So Chato’s driving,” she says.
“O.K.”
She raises her eyebrows at me.
“What? Do I need to get permission from Chato?”
I am on my bed in a camisole and pajama shorts, the nubby bedspread rough under my thighs. Yesenia is standing in front of the dresser in our bedroom where we both have our makeup and lotions and hair bands laid out.
“Have you seen my green eyeshadow, Katia?” she asks.
“Can I go with you or not?”
“It was right here the other day. Did I already pack it?”
“Yesenia.”
This is her first year going to Carnival. Most people start when they’re teen-agers—sixteen, eighteen. I invited her to go with me plenty of times. But Yesenia didn’t want to unless she could go with a boyfriend. She maintains a pretty constant stream of guys, ones who just drift in and out, but she’s never had a true boyfriend during Carnival until now. Who knows why, but about two months ago she decided that Chato was the one she was going to hang on to.
It’s no secret that Chato’s not my favorite. He has a decent enough job doing network stuff for Cable & Wireless. But almost every time I see him he is trying to talk my mother into buying a cell phone. Or he’s lying on our couch, watching fútbol. He keeps his fingernails long, because he plays the guitar. And he drinks too much, which once resulted in his tearing a gash down Yesenia’s arm when, she says, he stumbled and caught his nail on her skin. But the moment that turned me off Chato forever was when he walked into Yesenia’s and my bedroom one day and plopped himself on her bed. “I’m reading,” I told him, tapping my finger against my open book. He nodded, then leaned down and sniffed Yesenia’s pillow. He stretched out on her bed, his hands clasped behind his head. I asked him what he was doing. He scooted down to the middle of her mattress, lifted the bedspread, and smelled her sheets, right where her coño would have lain all night.
As far as Carnival goes, Chato believes there is hardly any point to it if he is expected to stay loyal to one girl. He kept telling Yesenia that, and each time she just laughed: “Oh, Chato, you’re such a clown.” But somehow last week she got him to agree to it.
“Fine. Yes. You can ride with us. But you can’t complain from the back seat the whole drive there.”
“You’re going to Las Tablas?”
“Of course. And I intend to have a good time. So don’t ruin it for me.”
Yesenia and I have four years between us. Which is an odd way to say it, I guess, because almost from the second she was born there was nothing—not years, not other people, not a wisp of air to breathe—that came between us.
In the beginning, I hovered over her while she slept in the crib that used to be mine, her baby hair sticking up like wings off her head; I brought my mother talcum powder to sprinkle in her diaper; I sat cross-legged on the couch and watched cartoons while I held her, heavy as a sack, in my little arms.
As soon as Yesenia outgrew her crib, we shared a room—two twin beds against opposite walls, a small glass-topped nightstand in between. We’d fall asleep talking to each other, and in the mornings she’d jump on my bed until, with my entire body bouncing, I opened my eyes to the sight of her smiling, her feet landing rhythmically on either side of me again and again.
Every day after school, Yesenia and I would sit at the kitchen table and do our homework, Yesenia always needling me to let her look at my old tests and notes from the classes I’d already been through, me poking her with my foot under the table. Every party we went to ended up with the two of us, huddled somewhere in a corner, gossiping and laughing to ourselves. Every decision we made required a consultation. Every everything in our lives, it seemed, had to do with each other.
Four months ago, all that changed. My father lost his job and started spending his days at the horse track, losing my mother’s money, and coming home only occasionally. In the past month, I have seen him twice. Yesenia is furious with me because I am making such a big deal about it. When he does come home, I fight with him, challenging him to tell me where he’s been. I yell at my mother, too, for taking his shit. Yesenia said once, “We all know you’re the tough one, Katia. What was it Mami said? Skin like armor. You don’t have to prove it every chance you get.” But I am just as angry at Yesenia for acting as if there were nothing more going on than a cloud passing overhead, momentarily blotting out the sun.

What Yesenia doesn’t know is that for months I have been sleeping in fits and starts, straining all night for the sound of my father arriving home. I wait for the creak of the wooden door as it opens and the clang of the exterior metal door as it settles shut. I wait for the sound of my father’s footsteps, his worn soles trudging across the linoleum floor. I wait for the wall that my parents’ bedroom shares with ours to vibrate a little as he closes the door to their room. I wait, tense in the fuzzy heat, while Yesenia sleeps, for all of this to happen, even though it hardly ever does.
Recently, my mother told me that when she and my father were first married he was embarrassed to let her fold his laundered underwear. She was sitting on the edge of her bed, rubbing cream on her hands. “It didn’t make any sense,” she said thoughtfully. “I already touched his underwear when I washed them and again when I hung them on the line. But folding! And of course I touched them when they had nothing to do with the laundry.” She shook her head. “There are a lot of things about him that don’t make sense lately, no?”
She looked so tired, her face scrubbed clean, her shapeless nightgown hanging on her like a tent. I started to get into bed next to her, to fill my father’s side.
My mother said, “What are you doing?”
“I was going to sleep with you.”
“No, no, no,” she said, shooing me out. “What if he comes home? I want to leave a space. Besides,” she said, squirming under the sheet, “Yesenia would miss you, wouldn’t she?”
Yesenia agreed that she and Chato would pick me up at work. I told her I didn’t want to be at home any more than I had to be. She huffed at that and said, “I really don’t know what your problem is, Katia.”
I am sitting in the air-conditioning, my shoes kicked off under my desk, rubbing my nyloned feet together, when I hear a horn honking. Most everyone is gone already. At the sound of the honk, I slide my feet back into my black pumps, grab my bag, and walk out.
I see Chato through the driver’s-side window of his little Toyota Tercel. His long hair is tucked behind his ears, and he’s angling the rearview mirror so that he can watch while he picks at something in his teeth. Two thin mattresses are roped to the top of the car. I open the door and get in behind him. My sister turns back.
“Are you ready?” she asks. Her cheeks are flushed, and I wonder if they were just kissing.
“I guess so.”
Chato rights the mirror. “Where’s your mattress?” he asks.
“At my house,” I say, placing my bag on the seat beside me.
He sighs. “Why did you ask us to pick you up here if we have to go to your house anyway?”
This is the plight of people who don’t rent a house or reserve a room: they bring camping mattresses or else take the seat cushions from their buses so that when night rolls around they have a place to sleep. Drop the mattress on the ground and good luck. “I’ll be fine,” I tell him.
I watch Chato steal a glimpse at Yesenia, as if to say, Your sister better not turn into a burden for us. Yesenia shrugs.
“Look,” I say, “we have two mattresses. You and Yesenia can share one, right? Maybe I can use the other.”
“The hell if I’m sharing my mattress,” Chato says.
Yesenia just looks out the window.
“Fine. I’ll figure it out.”
I first went to Carnival with Rogelio Penedes, a guy I dated in high school. He thought the two of us would make it until forever, but I had no illusions. I liked him enough to pass the time with, but I knew he was just one guy—my present but not my future. He stole his papi’s car so that he could drive us to Las Tablas. We stopped at the super on the way out of the city to buy junk food and alcohol and ice, which we dropped by the bagful into a gigantic cooler that took up almost the entire trunk. The whole drive there, he was munching on Pringles and pork rinds and telling me how I was his one and only, how this was going to be the sort of weekend we would tell our kids about. The world outside the car window looked the way it would look every year afterward on the way to Carnival: dense greenery growing thicker and thicker as we drove farther from the city, every once in a while a house with a tin roof visible among the trees, cars speeding by on tires so small they looked like temporary spares, pebbled curbs, dogs strolling in the thick sunlight, an outdoor roadside restaurant with its name—Pollos Papi—painted in block letters on the concrete overhang.
By the time we were passing the same scenery on the way home, Rogelio and I had split up. He got tragically drunk, the way you were supposed to at Carnival, but he hooked up with this other girl, and even though I had only liked him O.K. to begin with, he was still my boyfriend and he had still cheated. My face had never been much to speak of, but my body—well, at sixteen I looked good. So I spent the weekend running under the spray of the giant hoses, keeping myself soaked, my shirt clinging to me, my bra translucent underneath, my shorts plastered around my thighs, and I paraded in front of Rogelio to remind him of what he had lost. I rode home wet, too, and kept flicking my hair over my shoulders, letting the drops spray onto him. He blasted the air-conditioning to freeze me. By the time he returned the car to his papi, he was in trouble not only for taking it but for turning the upholstery into a sopping mess. He told me once in the hallway at school, in a moment of remorse, that there was still a water-stain outline of me on the car seat. “The way there’s still an imprint of you in my heart,” he said.
“It will fade,” I said.
Six hours of traffic and almost no conversation later, Chato announces that we’re there. At the start of the trip, Yesenia pleaded with Chato to talk to her. “Amorcito,” she said, “do you want to tell me about work?” And, “I’m getting bored.” And, “Chato, come on. It’s going to be a long drive.”
Each time, Chato would say something like “Why don’t you put on some lipstick?” and turn the radio up a little more. Eventually, the radio got loud enough that Yesenia had trouble talking over it. She looked back at me once and I waved brightly, but she made a disgusted face and turned away.
As soon as Chato switches off the engine, I drag my bag across the seat and get out. We are parked on a side street, but I can hear the swell of voices.

“Holy shit,” Chato says. “I forgot you were wearing that.”
I still have on my work clothes—black pumps, black skirt, nylons, tan V-neck sweater with a white button-down blouse underneath. My hair is pulled into a tight ponytail, the sides gelled to fend off frizz. I almost never wear it down.
“I’m going to change,” I say, though what I brought is not much better than what I have on.
Yesenia is in an aqua-blue bathing suit, stretch denim shorts, a brown halter top, and huge wedge sandals that make her almost as tall as Chato and definitely taller than me. Yesterday, after work, she spent two hours at the beauty salon, getting waxed. Over dinner last night, our mother asked her about the bikini wax—how much it cost and how much it hurt—because, she said, she was thinking of getting one herself. “Why?” I asked, even though I knew why. “It’s the little things, Katia. You never know.” “A bikini wax is not going to make Papi a good guy again,” I said, sawing at my meat. Yesenia kicked me hard in the shin under the table and started in on all the particulars about waxing while my mother listened with rapt attention.
I start to walk away.
“Where are you going?” Yesenia calls.
“I’m going to find a bathroom.”
“When will we see you again?”
“You’re driving me home, right?”
“Yeah, the car will be here all weekend,” Chato says. He pulls a rubber band from around his wrist and gathers his hair in it. Then he walks to the trunk and pulls out his guitar case.
“I’ll meet you here on Tuesday, then. What time?”
“Five o’clock should be good,” Chato says.
I spend Friday night and all day Saturday in a field about a mile from town, as far from Carnival as I can manage. I sleep on the ground, in the open air, using my bag as a pillow. A farmhouse is visible in the distance, but, aside from a few grazing cows during the day and a handful of Carnival-goers at night, I’m by myself.
I keep thinking this: The last four months isn’t the whole truth. When I was a kid, my father would sit on the floor and build block towers with me, and nap in the hammock out back with me curled against him like a caterpillar, and take me on walks around the neighborhood. He was never quite that way with Yesenia. Because I was the firstborn—the first one to steal his heart, he once said. When Yesenia came home from the hospital, I wanted to feel her soft belly instead of pressing up against my father’s, and I was more interested in having her grip my finger than I was in holding my father’s hand. Little by little, he grew more distant. He sat sullenly in front of the TV, or napped on his bed with the curtains drawn, or smoked with his body wedged in the half-open door that led to the laundry line out back. By the time we were guests at my cousins’ quinceañeras, my father had turned into the person who headed for the bar as soon as he got there. He would dance a song or two with me, or once in a while with Yesenia, but mostly he would settle into a chair on the fringe of the festivities and keep to himself.
A year ago, he stopped parking his car at our house. Maybe it was mathematics. There were four people in our house. There were three cars. There were two spaces. Maybe it’s just that there wasn’t enough room. For as long as I could remember, my father had parked his car with the two left tires on the strip of grass between our house and the sidewalk and the two right tires on the street, just beside the curb. His car was a piece of junk, but he parked it there, straddling the sidewalk, because our street is narrow and he didn’t want it to get hit. One day, I came home and his car was nowhere to be seen. My mother told me that he was paying our neighbor, Señora Urrutia, to let him park it in her driveway, since she lived alone, and had plenty of space. As soon as my mother said that, my stomach dropped. He hadn’t left us yet, but he would. I guess I knew that.
In the field now, I turn when I hear the overgrown grass around me rasping. Over my shoulder I see a lanky young guy walking in my direction.
“Do you have a cigarette?” he asks.
“Sorry.”
He pulls a pack from his pocket and offers it to me, the cellophane wrapping crackling under his thumb. “Do you want one?”
I shake my head. He plops down next to me and lights up. He has a long face and close-cropped hair, and he squints each time he takes a drag.
“What are you thinking about?” he asks.
“Look, I’m not interested,” I say.
He nods. “You already have a guy.”
“I’m just not interested.”
He sucks on his cigarette but doesn’t move. “What are you doing way out here?”
“I could ask you the same.”
“I needed a break from the scene back there. Carnival is kicking it this year, but it’s crazier than ever. I just went walking.”
Darkness is falling, ready to smother the day. I can feel him waiting for me to keep the conversation going. Finally, I say, “I was thinking about my father.”
“What about him?”
“Do you know that he forgot my mother’s birthday this year?”
“No, I didn’t know.”
I smile despite myself. Then, for no good reason, I tell him about the parking space.
“It doesn’t mean anything,” he says. He tosses his cigarette out in front of him, watching as it travels in an arc like a meteor. “That’s what you want me to say, right?”
“You can say whatever you want.”
“In that case, you’re really pretty.” He smiles. “That isn’t what you meant, is it?”
I turn away sharply and squeeze my eyes shut.
“You’re sure you don’t want one?” he asks. I know he’s holding out the cigarettes. But I stay as still and as quiet as I can, until he finally leaves.
On Sunday, after another night with the cows, I walk back into Las Tablas. It looks like it always looks this time of year: stuffed with people, silk banners that say either “Calle Abajo” or “Calle Arriba” hanging from second-floor balconies, venders on street corners, paper remnants of firecrackers that were set off the night before scattered on the ground like leaves. I stop at a stand where an old Chinese man is selling chicken. He’s sitting on a folding chair behind a table with two rotisserie cookers turning slowly behind him. I buy a chicken leg for ten cents.
I’m standing on the sidelines, watching a pickup truck with a brass band on its flatbed lumber down the street and eating my chicken when Yesenia comes running in my direction and plants herself in front of me.
“You have real nerve,” she says.

“What did I do?”
She’s wearing the same thing as the last time I saw her, only she’s soaking wet. She’s also drunk.
“ ‘What did I do? What did I do?’ ” she says mockingly. “It’s not like you know everything, Katia. You think you’re so much better than me and Mami. You think you have everything figured out and that we’re such fools.”
“I don’t think you’re a fool.”
Yesenia crosses her arms and raises her eyebrows.
Well, if she really wants to get into it: “I do think it’s foolish, though, ignoring everything that’s going on,” I say. “You’re just letting him get away with it.”
“Ha! That’s what Chato told me you’d say.”
“You knew I thought that.”
“Did you ever—” Her ankle gives and she stumbles on her wedge heels for a second before steadying herself. “Did you ever think that maybe it’s you who is making everything worse? I mean, if I were Papi, I wouldn’t exactly want to come home if I knew someone was waiting there to yell at me every time I did.”
“I wouldn’t yell at him if he started coming home.”
“But you do! You yell at him every time.”
“If he started being there regularly, not just once every few weeks, it would be different.”
“But how is he ever going to know that? I mean, how would he ever find that out if he can’t bring himself to come home because of all your carrying on?”
“You think I’m the reason he’s not coming home more?”
“Maybe.”
“You think I’m the reason Papi left us?”
She crosses her arms and blinks drowsily. “It’s a possibility.”
“Go away,” I say.
She tuts. “Just like with Papi. That’s the same thing you do to him.”
“Yesenia, you’re drunk. This is stupid.”
“No, I was thinking about this on the ride here, when I was perfectly sober. I think you are the reason Papi won’t come back to us.” She waits. When I don’t respond, she says, “I talked to Chato about it and he agrees with me.”
“Chato probably wasn’t even listening to you when you said all this. He never listens to you—in case you had the wrong idea about that, too.”
No one is paying the least bit of attention to us. People get into fights all the time during Carnival. Girls fighting over guys. People fighting for space. Certain [REDACTED] City gangs come to Las Tablas just looking for an excuse to start something. And now Yesenia and I, yelling at each other while a parade glides by.
Yesenia grabs my wrist and squeezes. “You don’t know anything about Chato,” she says.
“Really? I know he’s a jerk. He’s always been a jerk. You would know that if you weren’t so desperate to have a boyfriend.” I’m practically hissing at her now, pointing my chicken bone in her face.
Yesenia recoils a bit. “Well, excuse me if it seems like I always need a guy, but I’ve never had Papi, like you do. Like you always have.”
It takes me a second, but I say, “Neither of us has him now, anyway.”
“Your fault, not mine.”
“Yesenia! It’s not my fault that Papi is being a jerk. Just like Chato is a jerk,” I add. I can’t help it.
She gives my arm a violent tug and tightens her grip on my wrist. I can smell the alcohol on her breath worming through the air as she starts to speak, first in a whisper: “You stay the fuck away from me.” Then, “You stay the goddam fuck away from me!” Immediately, I don’t know why or where from, tears spring to my eyes.
She’s just drunk, I keep telling myself as I watch her stagger away. She’s just drunk.
I stand still for a few minutes, the colors of the Carnival queens blurry through my tears. When a guy walks by with a cart of Dixie cups filled with shots of rum, I take one. Then I chase after him down the sidelines of the parade and take another. When a bubble of people looses itself from the crowd and lurches in a big lump into the street, I go with them. And when one of the decorated cars in the parade honks and I turn to see a guy beckoning me up, I take his hands and climb clumsily onto the hood of the car. Everyone is cheering and it’s not long before the car drives through a spray of water from one of the cistern trucks positioned along the street. I’m drenched and I think to myself, Here we go. Even though I came to get away, here I am again in the middle of Carnival. I’m dancing on the hood of a car in a white knee-length skirt and a lavender T-shirt, my black bathing suit underneath, my wet hair tapping my back like a paddle as I move. The rum kicks in a little more. The guy driving the car is whooping at me as I bend my knees a little, feeling the beat as if I were rolling a hula hoop around my waist, my raised arms moving from side to side. People in the crowd are squirting water guns and tossing confetti, which sticks to me like stamps. The smell of incense and alcohol hangs in the air. I go for about a block before I see the guy, the one from last night. He has his shirt tied around his waist and is eating an ice-cream cone. I jump off the car and half land on him. He stumbles a little and then, when he sees it’s me, stands still. We’re close enough that our stomachs are almost touching. His breath smells like strawberry.
“Where did you get that?” I ask, pointing to the ice cream.
He steps back and holds it in front of me. “You want some?”
When I take too long to answer, he licks it.
“I want some,” I decide.
He offers me the cone, but I push it aside, take his face in my hands, and kiss him. His milky lips stick lightly to mine. “I just wanted a taste,” I say, still holding him, the stubble on his jaw rough under my palms.
Later, at the edge of the field, walking in a graceless teeter before passing out, I remember the first night my father didn’t come home. Yesenia shook me awake in my bed after midnight and said, “Papi isn’t here.” With tears in her eyes and the keys already in her hand, she convinced me to ride around in the car with her, searching for him. “What if something’s happened?” she kept whispering, half to me and half to herself.
I was sitting in the passenger seat, in my pajamas, while my sister yanked the car through its gears and we rumbled through the eerily quiet city streets. As we peered intently through the windshield and the side windows for a glimpse of him, she said, “Papi has that funny little mustache comb.” The sound of her trembling voice cut through the dark.

I said, “I know, the one he keeps on the sink behind the faucet.”
“And he always wears the same kind of loafers.”
“Until the soles crack and then he gets a new pair of the same kind.”
She turned down side streets and idled the car at red lights. “His face is always oily when I kiss him. Not that I kiss him very often. He kisses you more. When he gets home or whatever. He kisses your cheek right away.”
“He doesn’t do it that much anymore.”
A few seconds passed before she picked up again. “He always smells like cologne, too.”
We went on like this, trading impressions, until finally we pulled back into our driveway, having found no trace of him. Yesenia sobbed, her hands still gripping the steering wheel even after she had turned the car off. “I know something awful has happened to him,” she said. “I know it.”
The following night, while my mother, Yesenia, and I sat silently at the kitchen table, my father breezed in as though nothing had happened and started making his customary Scotch-and-water. Yesenia started crying again and rushed to wrap her arms around him.
“What is this?” he asked innocently.
“Where have you been?” I said. My relief gave way under the weight of sudden anger.
“Out,” he said, and took a sip of his drink.
My mother didn’t say a word. She just looked at her hands clasped on the table.
“We were worried,” Yesenia said.
“There was no need.”
“You didn’t come home last night,” I pointed out.
He took another sip of his Scotch before setting it on the counter and opening the refrigerator. His eyes were bloodshot, his shirt rumpled and untucked. I stood up and poured his drink down the drain. The ice cubes skated haphazardly in the basin.
Yesenia frowned at me. “I’ll make you another,” she said, as our father turned to see what I had done.
I grabbed the Scotch before she could reach it and poured the whole bottle down the drain.
“What are you doing?” Yesenia wailed.
“He doesn’t deserve it,” I said. I turned to my father and said, “You don’t deserve it.”
“Katia, please,” he said softly.
“Please what?”
“I was gone for one night. That’s all. I’m here now.”
I knew it was the start of something, though. I’d heard the stories of friends’ fathers leaving.
I shook my head. “Don’t do this to us.”
“Listen,” he said, his voice hardening. “You don’t need to accuse me of anything. I’m here now. End of story.” He breathed out steadily through his nose. Yesenia didn’t talk to me after we went to bed that night. She drew the covers over her head and wouldn’t even look my way.
I wake to the sound of my name being called over and over. My head is throbbing and I’ve drooled enough to make the pat of dirt under my face soften into mud. There are other people, like freckles, all over the field now, people like us who must have waited too long to get a hotel room within fifty miles of Las Tablas. I squint through the dazzling morning sun and try to look in the direction the sound is coming from. Slowly, my eyes focus on Yesenia, running in a zigzag, stumbling in the loose soil. I stand up and call to her. She pauses—she’s holding both hands against one side of her face—then starts toward me, screaming my name louder now and repeating, “Oh, my God, oh, my God.”
When she gets close enough I see blood seeping through her fingers. She has her head tilted so that the blood lands on the ground with soft taps, like the patter of rain.
“What happened?”
“Katia,” is all she says, gasping.
I try to pry her hands from her face, but she holds them firm.
“Yesenia, what happened? You have to tell me.”
“Chato,” she says.
“What did he do? Does it hurt?”
She says nothing. She’s just standing in front of me barefoot, blood oozing from her face.
“Let me see it.”
“No.”
I take a deep breath and pick up my bag. “Then we have to take you to a doctor.”
I wonder how she found me way out here. She might have been running around screaming my name for hours. I start walking to find a medical station—temporary ones are set up for Carnival—and she follows me, as I knew she would, as I wanted her to.
“What the hell did he do to you?” I turn back once to ask.
But she just shakes her head and holds her cheek until we make it to a doctor.
Yesenia gets seven stitches in a little horseshoe shape on her face. I’m allowed to watch, but when the procedure is over, while Yesenia is getting instructions from the nurse on how to tend the wound, the doctor leads me outside. I ask him what happened. This whole time, I’ve been imagining that Chato thrust something at her—a branch, a fork—and that it broke the skin. Or that they got into a fight and he slapped her, one of his ragged nails catching her flesh.
The doctor says, “She was bitten. It’s quite clear that it was a human bite. It could have been worse. The person who bit your sister—his or her teeth never clenched together fully. If they had, she might have lost a small piece of her face.”
As soon as Yesenia comes out, I tell her I’m taking her home.
“We’ll find a taxi,” I say. Who knows what a four-hour taxi ride will cost, but we have to get out of here.
Yesenia has a square of gauze taped to the side of her face like a miniature opaque window. Otherwise, she looks O.K. Tired, but O.K.
“Wait,” she says, and starts riffling through the tiny purse slung across her body. “I have the keys to Chato’s car,” she says, dangling them in the air. “Chato made me hold onto them. He didn’t want anything in his pockets.” As soon as she says his name, she nearly starts crying.
Are you going to tell me what he did? I want to say, and, in the next second, You’re better off without him. But I say neither. Instead, I hug her. Her head falls on my shoulder and she lets me hold her, my hands against her bare back, feeling the quick crescendo of inhalations as my sister sobs in my arms.
Except for a guitar pick hanging from the rearview mirror which knocks against the windshield every time we hit a pothole, it’s quiet inside the car as we start toward home. We were quiet the whole ride here, but now the silence is different, the timbre one of tentative forgiveness. Once, I remember kissing that guy, whoever he was, his strawberry lips, and the thought of it ignites a smile that sticks with me for a few kilometres.
We stop for food at a thatch-covered restaurant with outdoor tables, where we order tomato salads and fried corn cakes and where the flies land on our water glasses every few seconds, even though we shoo them absent-mindedly.

“Does it hurt?” I ask Yesenia at the table. I’ve resolved not to ask her more than that. If she wants to, she’ll tell me what happened.
“It’s still numb,” she says.
I nod, and we keep eating. For dessert, we each get a coconut Popsicle to eat in the car.
A few hours later, we arrive back in the city. We’re stopped at a light when I think I see our father. “Look,” I say to Yesenia, and I point to a man carrying an armful of pink carnations, snaking through the stopped cars.
“Papi,” she gasps.
I wind down the window and whistle. As he walks over, something bobs in my throat. I glance at the stoplight, which is still red. I can’t decide whether I want it to stay that way or to turn.
“Jovencita,” he says, when he’s close enough.
As soon as he speaks, as soon as I look at him again, I know it’s not my father. I shake my head.
“Three dollars for the whole bouquet,” he says.
It’s uncanny, though, how alike they look.
“I’m sorry,” I say, and start to close the window.
Then, from over my shoulder, I hear Yesenia shout, “We miss you!”
The man wipes his nose with his hand and repeats his offer. The light turns, and, the window still half open, I press my foot to the gas, leaving the man in the middle of the street.

“It wasn’t him,” I say, even though I know she knows. She knows as well as I do that our father is lost to us, that he’s not coming back. Yesenia and I have been fighting from different corners, but we’re in the same ring.
“We miss you,” Yesenia says once more, quietly this time, to the dashboard.
I put my hand on her knee and navigate toward home. 

