AN AFTERNOON
By William Trevor

Someone had left a comic paper on the seat near where he sat and he read the strips while he waited. All the way to the bus station he had hurried because he liked being early for things. He liked to take his time, to settle himself, and he did so now. He knew she’d come.
Jasmin knew he was going to be different, no way he couldn’t be; no way he’d be wearing a baseball cap backward over a No. 1 cut, or be gawky like Lukie Giggs, or make the clucking noise that Darren Finn made when he was trying to get a word out. She couldn’t have guessed, all she knew was he wouldn’t be like them. Could be he’d put you in mind of the Raw Deal drummer, whatever his name was, or of Al in “Doc Martin.” But the boy at the bus station wasn’t like either. And he wasn’t a boy, not for a minute.
He was the only person waiting who was alone, apart from herself, and he didn’t seem interested in the announcements about which buses were arriving or about to go. He didn’t look up when people came in. He hadn’t glanced once in her direction. In the end, if nothing happened, Jasmin knew she would have to be brazen. She called it that to herself because it was what it amounted to, because you didn’t get anywhere if you weren’t. All your life you’d be carrying teas to the lorrymen in the diner, wiping down the tables and clearing away plastic plates, doing yourself an injury because you were soaking up the lorrymen’s cigarette smoke. “Now, you don’t be brazen, Angie,” her mother used to scold her when she was no more than five or six and used to reach up for the cooking dates or a chocolate bar in the Pricerite, opening whatever it was before her mother saw.
“You carry that to a woman doing the shelves. You say a mistake, you tell her that. Brazen you are,” her mother always ended up. “You just watch it, girl.” She kept quiet herself. She never approached a woman who was arranging the shelves, just put whatever she’d taken behind the cornflakes or the kitchen rolls. Jasmin was her own choice of name, since she’d always detested Angie and considered it common when she was older. “Oh, la-di-da!” her mother’s riposte had been to this further evidence of brazenness. “Listen to our madam!” she would urge Holby, trying to draw the husband she had now into it, but Holby had become fly about things like that, having learned a lesson when he’d been drawn into a no-go marriage. It wasn’t even the way you spelled it, her mother witheringly commented; no “e” at the end was your bloody Muslim way. But when her mother wasn’t there Holby said all that was a load of rubbish. “You spell your name like it suits you,” he advised. “You stick to how you want it.” Her mother was a violent woman, Jasmin considered, and knew that Holby did, too.
“Excuse me,” she said, crossing to where the man was waiting. “I’m Jasmin.”
He smiled at her. He had a peaky face, his teeth crowded at the front, light-colored hair left long. He was wearing flannel trousers and a jacket, and that surprised her. A kind of speckled navy blue the jacket was, with a gray tie. And shoes, not trainers—all very tidy. What surprised her more than anything was that he could have been mid-thirties, maybe a few years older. From his voice on the chat line, she’d thought more like nineteen.
“You fancy a coffee, Jasmin?” he said.
She felt excited when he spoke. The first time, on the chat line, she’d felt it when he’d called her Jasmin. Then again yesterday, when he’d said why don’t they meet up?
“Yeah, sure,” she said.
All the time he kept his smile going. He was the happy sort, he’d told her on the chat line, not the first time, maybe the third or fourth. He’d asked her if she was the happy sort herself and she’d said yes, even though she knew she wasn’t. Droopy was what she was, she’d heard her mother saying when Holby first came to live in the house; and later on, when her mother wasn’t there, Holby asked her what the trouble was and she said nothing. “Missing your dad?” Holby suggested. Seven she’d been then.
“You like to go in here?” the man suggested when they came to a McDonald’s. “You all right with a McDonald’s, Jasmin?”
Just coffee, she said when he offered her a burger, and he said he’d bring it to her. Her father had gone when he found out her mother was going with Holby. Her mother said she didn’t care, but six months later she made Holby marry her, because she’d been caught, she maintained, having not been married to Jasmin’s father.
“I like a McDonald’s,” the man said, coming with the coffee.
He was smiling again, and she wondered if he had smiled all the time at the counter. She didn’t know his name. Three weeks ago she’d first heard his voice on the chat line. “I’m Jasmin,” she’d said, expecting him to say his name also, but he hadn’t.
“I could nearly tell your age,” he said now. “From talking to you I nearly could.”
“Sixteen.”
“I thought sixteen.”
They sat at the counter that ran along the window. People on the pavement outside were in a hurry, jostling one another, no cars or buses allowed in this street.
“You’re pretty,” he said. “You’re pretty, Jasmin.”
She wasn’t really. She couldn’t be called pretty, but he said it anyway, and he wondered if there was a similar flattery he would particularly enjoy himself. While they watched the people on the street he thought about that, imagining the baby voice in which she gabbled her words saying something like he knew his way around, or saying he had an easy way with him.
“You think I’d be younger?” he asked her.
“Yeah, maybe.”
She gave a little shrug, her thin shoulders jerking rapidly up and down. The red anorak she wore wasn’t grubby but had a faded, washed-out look. Other girls would have thrown it away.
“I like your charm,” he said, and pointed because she didn’t know he meant the brooch that was pinned to the flimsy pink material of her dress. Her chest was flat and he could have said he liked that, too, because it was the truth. But the truth didn’t always do, as he had long ago learned, and he smiled instead. Her bare, pale legs were like twigs stripped of their bark and he remembered how he used to do that, long ago, too. Her shoes were pinkish, high-heeled.
“It’s nothing,” she said, referring to her brooch. She shrugged in the same jerky way again, a spasm it seemed almost, although he knew it wasn’t. “A fish,” she said. “It’s meant to be a fish.”
“It’s beautiful, Jasmin.”
“Holby gave it to me.”
“Who’s Holby, then?”
“My mother got married to him.”
“Your father, is this?”

“Bloody not.”
He smiled. In one of their conversations he’d asked her if she was pretty and she’d said maybe and he’d guessed she wasn’t from the way she’d said it. They went in for fantasy—they put things on. Well, everyone did, of course.
“Same age as you, Jasmin—you think that when we talked? What age you think?”
“You didn’t sound a kid,” she said.
She had a stud in one side of her nose and a little coil pierced into the edge of one ear. He wondered if she had something in her belly button and wanted to ask her but knew not to. He wanted to close his eyes and think about a gleam of something nestling there, but he smiled instead. Her hair was lank, no frizziness left in it, brightened with a coloring.
“You take trouble,” he said. “I thought you’d be the kind. I could tell you’d take trouble with yourself.”
Again there was the shrug. She held the paper coffee mug between her hands as if for warmth. She asked him if he was in work and he said yes, the law.
“The law? With the police?” She looked around, an agitated movement, her eyes alarmed. He could take her hand, he thought, a natural thing to do, but he resisted that, too.
“The courts,” he said. “If there’s a dispute, if there’s trouble I have to put a case. No, not the police, nothing to do with the police.”
She nodded, unease draining away.
“You going to be a nurse, Jasmin? Caring for people. I see you caring for people, Jasmin.”
When they asked, he always said the courts. And usually he said he could see them caring for people.
The Gold Mine was a place he knew, and they went there to play the fruit machines. He always won, he said, but today he didn’t. He didn’t mind that. He didn’t raise the roof like Giggs did when his money went for nothing. He didn’t say the whole thing was fixed. Good days, bad days was all he said.
“No, you take it,” he said when she had to explain she hadn’t any money, and in the end she took the two-pound coin he gave to where they broke it down for her. He picked up a necklace for her with the grab, guiding the grab skillfully, knowing when to open the metal teeth and knowing not to be in a hurry to close them, to wait until he was certain. He’d cleared out everything there was on offer once, he said—sweets, jewelry, dice, three packs of cards, two penknives, the dancing doll, a Minnie Mouse, ornaments. He swivelled the crane about when he got the necklace for her, asking her what she wanted next, but this time the teeth closed an instant too soon and the bangle he’d gone after moved only slightly and then slipped back. They spent an hour in the Gold Mine.
“Go back to the bus station for a while?” he suggested, and Jasmin said she didn’t mind. But on the way there were some seats, one on each side of a small concrete space with a concrete trough of shrubs in the middle. The shrubs were mostly dead, but one of the seats was empty and he asked her if she’d like to sit there.
“Yeah, it’s nice,” Jasmin said.
An elderly man, asleep, was stretched out on the seat opposite the empty one. On another, a mother and her children were eating chips. On the third two women, in silence, stared at nothing.
“I come here when it’s sunny,” the man Jasmin was with said. “Nothing better to do, I come here.”
He’d made her wear the necklace, putting it on for her, the tips of his fingers cool on her neck as he fiddled with the clasp. He’d said it suited her. It suited her eyes, he’d said, and she wondered about that, the beads being yellowish. When they’d been going toward the machine that took you to the stars he’d said he was twenty-nine and she’d wanted to say she liked his being older, and almost did.
“The sun all right for you, Jasmin?”
The two women looked at them, one and then the other, still not speaking. The mother scolded her children when they asked for more chips. She bundled the empty cartons into a waste bin and they went away.
“There’s vitamins in the sun. You know that, Jasmin?”
She nodded, although she hadn’t been aware of this. She tried to look at her necklace but she couldn’t see it properly when she pulled it taut and squinted down at the beads. If she’d been alone she would have taken it off, but she didn’t like to do that now.
“Jasmin’s a great name,” he said. On the chat line he had said that, complimenting her, although he didn’t know she had given herself the name. She’d often thought he was affectionate when they had their conversations on the chat line, even though she’d been puzzled a few times when he described the telephone box he was in or read out what was written on a wall. The first time he’d read something out without saying he was doing it she’d wondered if he was all there in the head, but then he explained and it was all right. She imagined him in the courts, like you’d see on TV. She imagined him standing up with papers in one hand, putting a case. She imagined him looking to where she was watching, and his smile coming on, and wanting to wave at him but knowing she mustn’t because he’d have told her that. The first time on the chat line he’d commented on her voice. “You take it easy, now,” he’d said, and she hung on because she didn’t want him to go. “Love that voice,” he said and she realized he meant hers.
He was smiling at her now, and they watched the sleeping man waking up. He had made a pillow of a plastic carrier bag stuffed full of what might have been clothes. He had undone his shoelaces and he did them up again. He looked about him and then he went away.
“I thought you might say no, Jasmin, when I put it to you we’d meet up. Know what I mean, Jasmin? That you wouldn’t want to take it further.”
She shook her head, denying that. She wanted her mother to go by, coming back from the betting shop, where the man Holby didn’t know about worked. Holby was pathetic, her mother said, another mistake she’d made, same’s the one with Jasmin’s father. She had got into a relationship with the betting-shop man and the next thing would be he’d be a mistake, too, no way he wouldn’t.
“I’d never,” Jasmin heard herself protesting. “I’d never have said no.”
She shook her head to make certain he was reassured. He’d lowered his voice when he’d said he had worried in case she’d say no. She didn’t want anything spoiled; she wanted everything to go on being as good as on the chat line, as good as it was now.

“You at a loose end, Jasmin? You got the time today, come round to my place?”
Again there was the ripple of excitement. She could feel it all over her body, a fluttering of pins and needles it almost felt like but she knew it wasn’t that. She loved being with him; she’d known she would. “Yeah,” she said, not hesitating, not wanting him to think she had. “Yeah, I got the time today.”
“Best to walk,” he said. “All right with a walk, Jasmin?”
“ ’Course I am.” And, because it seemed to belong now, Jasmin added that she didn’t know his name.
“Clive,” he said.
He liked that name and often gave it. Usually, they asked, sometimes even on the chat line, before they got going. Rodney he liked, too. Ken he liked. And Alistair.
“I never knew a Clive,” she said.
“You’re living at home, Jasmin?”
“Oh, yes.”
“You said. A bit ago you said that. I only wondered if you’d moved out by now.”
“I wish I’d be able to.”
“Arm’s length, are they?”
She didn’t understand, and he said her mother and whoever. On the chat line he remembered she’d said she was an only child. Her mother she’d mentioned then, the boyfriend she’d referred to in the bus station. He asked about him, wondering if he was West Indian, and she said yes. Light-colored, she said. “He passes.”
They had turned out of the busy streets, into Blenning Row, leading to Sowell Street, where the lavatories were, the school at the end.
“A West Indian kid got killed here,” he said. “White kids took their knives out. You ever see a thing like that, Jasmin?”
“No.” Vehemently, she shook her head, and he laughed and then she did.
“You ever think of moving out, Jasmin? Anything like that come into your thoughts? Get a place of your own?”
All the time, she said. The only thing was, she wasn’t earning.
“First thing you said to me nearly, that you’d got nothing coming in.”
“You’re easy to talk with, Clive.”
He took her hand; she didn’t object. Her fingernails were silvery, he’d noticed in the McDonald’s, a couple of them jagged where they’d broken. No way she wasn’t a child, no way she’d reached sixteen, more like twelve. Her hand was warm, lying there in his, dampish, fingers interlaced with his.
“There used to be a song,” he said. “ ‘Putting on the agony’ was how it went. ‘Putting on the style.’ Before your time, Jas. It could have been called something else, only those were the words. ‘That’s what all the young folk are doin’ all the while.’ Lovely song.”
“Maybe I heard it one time, I don’t know.”
“What age really, Jas?”
“Seventeen.”
“No, really, though?”
She said fifteen. Sixteen in October, she said.
When they were passing the Queen and Angel he asked her if she ever took a drink. It wouldn’t do for him to bring her onto licensed premises, he explained, and she said she wasn’t fussy for a drink, remembering the taste of beer, which she hadn’t liked. He said to wait and he went to an off-license across the street and came back with a plastic bag. He winked at her and she laughed. “Mustn’t be bad boys,” he said. “No more than a few sips.”
They came to a bridge over the river. They didn’t cross it, but went down steps to a towpath. He said it was a shortcut.
There wasn’t anyone around, and they leaned against a brick wall that was part of the bridge. He unscrewed the cap of the bottle he’d bought and showed her how the plastic disk he took from one of his jacket pockets opened out to become a tumbler. Tonic wine, he said, but he had vodka, too, miniatures he called the little bottles he had. What the Russians drank, he said, although she knew. He said he’d been in [REDACTED] once.
They drank from the tumbler when he’d tasted the mixture he’d made and said it wasn’t too strong. He’d never been responsible for making any girl drunk, he said. He had found the collapsible tumbler on the same seat where they’d been sitting in the sun. One day he’d seen it there and thought it was a powder compact. He carried it about with him in case he met a friend who’d like a drink.
“All right, Jas?”
“Yeah, great.”
“You like it, Jas?”
They passed the tumbler back and forth between them. She drank from where his lips had been; she wanted to do that. He saw her doing it and he smiled at her.
Nice in the sun, he said when they walked on, and he took her hand again. She thought he’d kiss her, but he didn’t. She wanted him to. She wanted to sit on a patch of grass and watch the rowers going by, his arm around her shoulders, his free hand holding hers. There was some left in the bottles when he dropped them and the plastic bag into a waste bin.
“Sit down, will we?” she said, and they did, her head pressed into his chest. “I love you, Clive,” she whispered, not able to stop herself.
“We belong,” he whispered back. “No way we don’t, Jas.”
She didn’t break the silence when they walked on, knowing that it was special, and better than all the words there might have been. No words were necessary, no words could add a thing to what there was.
“I can see us in [REDACTED], Jas. I can see us walking the streets.”
She felt different, as if her plainness wasn’t there. Her face felt different, her body, too. In the diner she’d be a different person clearing up the plates, not minding the lorrymen’s cigarette smoke, not minding what they said to her. Nothing she knew would be the same, her mother wouldn’t be, and letting Lukie Giggs touch her where he wanted to wouldn’t be. She wondered if she was drunk.
“You’re never drunk, Jas.” He squeezed her hand, he said she was fantastic. Both of them were only tipsy, he said. Happy, he said. Soon’s he heard her voice he knew she was fantastic. Soon’s he saw her at the bus station. In the room they were going to there were the things he collected—little plastic tortoises, and racing cars, and books about places he wanted to go to, and pictures of castles on the walls. She imagined that when he told her, and saw a vase of summer flowers, curtains drawn against the sunlight. He played a disk for her, the Spice Girls, because they were in the past and he liked all that.
They turned off the towpath, into a lane with a row of garage doors running along it, and walled back gardens on the other side. They came out on to a suburban road, and crossed it to a crescent. He dropped her hand before they reached it and pulled down the back of his jacket where it had ridden up a bit. He buttoned all three buttons.
“Would you wait five minutes, Jas?”
It was as if she knew about that, as if she knew why she had to wait and why it should be five minutes, as if he’d told her something she’d forgotten. She knew he hadn’t. It didn’t matter.

“You be all right, Jas?”
“ ’Course I will.”
She watched him walking off and when he reached a front gate painted blue. She watched him as she had when he crossed the street to the off-license. She waited, as she had waited then, too, seeing again the little tortoises and the racing cars, hearing the Spice Girls. Across the road a delivery van drew up. No one got out, and a minute or so later it drove off. A dog went by. A woman started a lawnmower in one of the front gardens.
She waited for longer than he’d said, for ages it felt like, but when he came back he was hurrying, as if making up for that. He almost ran, his flannel trousers flapping. He was out of breath when he reached her. He shook his head and said they’d best go back.
“Back?”
“Best to go back, Jas.”
He took her arm, but he was edgy and didn’t take it as he had before. He didn’t search for her hand. He pulled her anorak when it was difficult for her to keep up with him. Behind them somewhere a car door banged.
“Oh, God,” he said.
A red car slowed down beside them as they were turning into the lane with the garage doors. When it stopped a woman with glasses on a string around her neck got out. She was wearing a brown skirt and a cardigan that matched it over a pale silk blouse. Her dark hair was coiled round her head, her lipstick glistened, as if she hadn’t had time to powder it over or had forgotten to. The glasses bobbed about on her blouse and then were still. Her voice was angry when she spoke but she kept it low, giving the impression that her teeth were clenched.
“I don’t believe this,” she said.
She spoke as if Jasmin wasn’t there. She didn’t look at her, not even glancing in her direction.
“For God’s sake!” she almost shouted, and slammed the door of the car shut, as if she had to do something, as if only noise could express what she felt.
“For God’s sake, after all we’ve been through!”
Her face was quivering with rage, one hand made into a fist that struck the roof of the car once and then opened, to fall by her side. There was silence then.
“Who is she?” The woman spoke when the silence had gone on, at last recognizing Jasmin’s presence. Her question came wearily, in a bleak, dull tone. “You’re on probation,” she said. “Did you forget somehow that you were on probation?”
The man whom she railed at had not attempted to speak, had made no protestation, but words were muttered now. “She was looking for the towpath. She asked me where it was. I don’t know who she is.”
The long, peaky features might never that afternoon, or any afternoon, have been other than they had become in the brief time that had passed, devoid of all expression, dead, a dribble of tears beginning.
Then Jasmin’s companion of so many conversations, and whom she had begun to love, shambled off, and the woman said nothing until he reached the blue-painted ornamental gate and again disappeared around the side of the house.
“Was there anything?” she asked then. She stared at Jasmin. Slowly she looked her up and down. Jasmin didn’t know what her question meant. “Did he do anything to you?” the woman asked, and Jasmin understood and yet did not. What mattered more was that he had cried, his happiness taken from him, his smile, too. He had cried for her. He had cried for both of them. All that she understood too well.
“Who are you?” the woman asked. Her clenched-back voice, deprived of the energy of its anger, was frightened, and fear clung to the tiredness in her face.
“Clive’s my friend,” Jasmin said. “There wasn’t nothing wrong. We done nothing wrong.”
“That’s not his name.”
“Clive, he said.”
“He says anything. Did he give you drink?”
Jasmin shook her head. Why should she say? Why should she get him into trouble?
“You reek of drink,” the woman said. “Every time he gives them drink.”
“He done nothing.”
“His mother was my sister. He lives with us.”
If she’d asked him, Jasmin said, he would have explained about his name. But the woman just stared at her when she began to tell her that she, also, had given herself a name, that sometimes people wanted to.
“My sister died,” the woman said. “He’s been living with us since that. He thought the house would be empty this afternoon but it wasn’t, because I changed my mind about going out. You worry and you change your mind. Quite often you do. Well, naturally, I suppose. He’s been on charges.”
“He was only going to show me, like, where it is he lived.”
“What’s your name?”
“Jasmin.”
“If this is known they’ll take him in again.”
Jasmin shook her head. There was a mistake, she said. The woman said there wasn’t.
“We look after him, we lie for him, my husband and I. We’ve done our best since my sister died. A family thing, you do your best.”
“There wasn’t anything.”
“My sister knew his chance would come. She knew there’d be a day that would be too terrible for her to bear. He was her child, after all. It was too much. She left a note.”

“Honestly, I promise you.”
“I know, I know.”
The woman got into her car and wound the window down as if she intended to say something else but she said nothing. She turned in the quiet road and drove back to her house.
Frying chops, Holby prodded them occasionally with a fork. He liked to blacken them, to see the smoke rising while still not turning down the gas. It got into her hair, Jasmin’s mother maintained.
Smoke like that was greasy, she insisted, but Holby said it couldn’t be. He heard the door when Jasmin came into the kitchen and called out to her, knowing it wasn’t her mother who’d come in. “How you doing, girl?”
All right, Jasmin said, and then her mother was there, back from her time with her betting-shop friend. Even through the smoke, her entrance brought a gush of the perfume she so lavishly applied when she met her men.
“What’re you frying, Holby?” She shouted above the sizzling of the meat, and Jasmin knew there was going to be a quarrel.
In her room, even with the door closed she heard it beginning, her mother’s noisy criticisms, Holby’s measured drone of retaliation. She didn’t listen. Probably he had guessed at last about the betting-shop man, as her father had once guessed about him. Probably it had come to that—the frying of the chops, the smoke, the grease no more than a provocation, a way of standing up for himself. And Holby—today or some other day—would walk out, saying no man could stand it, which Jasmin remembered her father saying, too.
She pulled the curtains over and lay down on her bed. She liked the twilight she had induced; even on better days than this she did. Tired after the walk to the house with the man she had begun to love, and after that the walk alone to where she lived herself, she closed her eyes. “You like to go in here?” he asked again. He carried her coffee to where she waited. She felt the touch of his fingers when he put the necklace on for her. “The sun all right for you?” he said.

In the room she still had to imagine there were books on shelves, the vase of flowers, the pictures of castles. In a courtroom he put a case, his papers in one hand, gesturing with the other. They belonged, he said on the towpath, the rowers going by.
Downstairs something was thrown, and there was Holby’s mumble, the clank of broken china when it was swept up, her mother’s voice going on, her crossness exhausted as the woman’s had been. He had been shamed by the woman getting things wrong and was the kind to mind. He didn’t realize the woman didn’t matter, that her talk and her fury didn’t. He wasn’t the kind to know that. He wasn’t the knowing sort.
Her mother’s voice was different now, caressing, lying. She sent Holby out for beer, which at this stage in the proceedings she always did; Jasmin heard him go. Her mother called up the stairs, calling her Angie, saying to come down. She didn’t answer. She didn’t say that Angie wasn’t her name. She didn’t say anything. When she went there, he would not be on the seat in the sun. He would not be waiting in the bus station. Or playing the machines. Or in the McDonald’s. But when Jasmin closed her eyes again his smile was there and it didn’t go away. She touched with her lips the necklace that had been his gift. She promised she would always keep it by her. 

