WAITING FOR DEATH IN A HOTEL
By Italo Calvino

At a certain time in the morning, the prisoners’ wives began to arrive and started gesturing, their faces turned up toward the windows. From the top floor, the prisoners leaned out to ask and answer questions; and it was as if the women’s hands on the ground and the men’s hands up above were trying to reach across those metres of empty space and touch. There was nothing about the big hotel, recently demoted to a barracks and a prison, that could give concrete shape to the inmates’ loss of freedom—no iron bars or high walls. The only visible manifestation of their anguish was the short yet insurmountable vertical distance between those with their feet in the hotel garden, who were still in charge of their own destiny, and those who had been brought to the hotel as though it were a country from which there was no return.
Every now and then, one of the prisoners at the window would turn to the hallway behind him and call out a name: “Ferrari! Ferrari! Your wife’s down there!” The man summoned would push his way through to the already crowded window, and start smiling wanly and making gestures that were intended to signal resignation.
Diego never went to the window; his family was far away, scattered by the war. He’d had enough of the endless seesawing of predictions and suppositions, of good and bad news, that the coming and going in the hotel garden conveyed to those above. His nerves were in shreds. He longed to let himself drift—whether toward disaster or toward the miraculous salvation that he still hoped for. He longed for summers spent stretched out on the sand at the water’s edge, like the many summers of sand and sea in his past, summers that had brought the lazy and unenterprising man to this point, to his first useful summer, which was now coming to an end.
But time was a web of tense nerves, a puzzle that could be reshaped into a thousand patterns, all of them meaningless. Forlornly, the prisoners, most of whom had been captured by chance in the streets, paced the linoleum of the hotel’s bare rooms, where only the white lips of the basins and the bidets grinned, blocked with foul water.
When Diego had been transferred to the hotel, the day before, from a prison in the fort, where he had spent a day and a night with other men who had now perhaps been killed, it felt like being exhumed—finding himself in the spacious hotel, with the warmth of these men all around him, ignorant and easily optimistic. He had laughed and joked, meeting up with men he knew; Michele, the comrade with whom he had been captured, was also among the prisoners in the hotel. The two men had rejoiced at finding each other safe, at being reunited, after a twenty-four-hour separation during which each had feared for the other’s fate. Diego had felt moved but also encouraged as he ran his hand over the roughness of Michele’s overcoat and the smoothness of his big, bald head, which came up to Diego’s chest. Michele had cackled nervously, revealing his few teeth, and asked, “What do you say, Diego, will we put one over on the Nazis?”
Diego had said, “I say we’ll do it. We’ll put one over on the whole of the Third Reich, we will.”
“Even on von Ribbentrop?”
“Even on von Ribbentrop. Even on von Brauchitsch. Even on Dr. Goebbels.”
And they’d crouched down beside a cold radiator to dispel their anxiety with laughter and jokes (they didn’t yet know that several of those who’d been captured with them had already been executed), and Diego had felt the happiness of someone who has just been released after years in jail.
The prison where he’d been held was an old fort on the harbor, where the German anti-aircraft artillery was now installed. His cell had been used at some point as a detention area for German soldiers. On the walls were graffiti written by German homosexuals: “Mein lieber Kamerad Franz, I am shut up here and you are far from me”; “Mein lieber Kamerad Hans, my life was happy when I was near you.”
There’d been about twenty of them in that cramped cell, stretched out on the ground in a row. An old man with a white beard, dressed in hunting clothes—the father of one of the other prisoners—would get up every so often during the night, stepping over the bodies, and urinate, with considerable effort, into a can in the corner. Rust had worn holes in the can, and soon the old man’s urine would flood the cell floor, like a river. Inhuman barked orders, as if issued by men who were half wolves, echoed through the fort at each changing of the guard.
The iron bars of the cell window looked out over the cliffs; the sea roared all night as it coursed through the rocks, like blood in the arteries and thoughts in the spirals of the brain. And each man thought endlessly of the corner he should never have turned, the corner that had brought him here: for Diego, it was the street corner that he and Michele had gone around to avoid the cordon, and which had put them face to face with a group of Germans in full battle gear, stopping passersby in the middle of the road three metres away, as if in the opening scene of a film.
The chain of sensations and images circled around in his mind like a rosary, telling him over and over that things couldn’t have gone any other way, as he lay enclosed in the cell with German homosexual graffiti on the walls and the old man constantly urinating in the dark—or now, as he sat beneath the peeling stucco of the top floor of the hotel, suspended between life and death, while the men around him lay face down as if struck by vertigo.
Each day, a certain number of them were selected: either for life or for death. In the morning, the sergeant and Snakeskin would appear with a bundle of documents in their hands: those who got their documents back were free to leave. They’d hug their wives and walk off arm-in-arm across the hotel lawn, trailed by the envious eyes of those left behind.
In the evening a lead-gray van full of armed soldiers would come to a halt outside the hotel. The sergeant and Snakeskin would call out other names, and one or two men would be driven off, surrounded by those helmeted soldiers. The next day, their women would turn up below the windows asking for them, and then go from one military office to another, pleading with the interpreters: no one knew where the men had been taken. Other women spoke of shots heard in the evening, down in the evacuated area near the harbor.
For Diego and Michele, too, there were only these two alternatives: freedom or death. Either their documents would be recognized as valid—and in that case they really had put one over on the whole Reich—and they would be able to talk about it in the hideouts of an evening amid the laughter of their comrades; or it would be the lead-gray van, disappearing among the ruined houses by the port, Snakeskin having turned them in.

Snakeskin examined all the prisoners on arrival, to see if he recognized any former comrades among the men lined up outside the hotel. A slight lad in his tight uniform, with a wet smile on his parched lips flecked with saliva, Snakeskin walked along rubbing his sweaty hands together. He was pale, with a cold that reddened his nostrils and eyelids, and he had the beginnings of a blondish mustache. His eyes glistened with emotion at the idea that he was the arbiter of life and death over the men who stood before him, holding their breath at his every word and gesture.
These were moments of inebriating triumph for Snakeskin, but they were colored always by anguish. Every time he appeared in the hotel hallways the inmates would crowd around to plead with him, calling him by his name: “Tullio, Tullio.” He’d look at the docile men around him and see the sharp hatred beneath their submission. To one of them he’d said, “Today you are courting me; tomorrow you will shoot me in the back.”
Snakeskin would save one day, condemn the next: he was capricious and ambiguous. Many of those who’d known him before, when he was on their side, believed they were finished when they found themselves being interrogated in his presence. But he pretended not to recognize them. Others who thought that he’d be merciful because of past favors or friendships had seen him bare his gums in a sneer, taunting them like a cat with a mouse. At times Snakeskin seemed set on bloodshed, at others in the grip of remorse.
During the inspection, he had stopped in front of Michele and said, “We’ve met somewhere before.” Michele had jerked his head up as if a drop of cold water had gone down his back and, with a bewildered look, had made a grimace of ignorance.
Diego sat on the tiled floor of the hallway, his hands on his knees. Michele was beside him, looking out the window. He was waiting for his wife: she had gone to talk to Luciano, an S.S. interpreter who worked for the committee and who had pledged to get them out. Michele’s wife was much younger than him, a child bride. She had big gray cloudy eyes, but there was something stern in her face, framed as it was by smooth black hair, and something joyful about her thin body, in her short lilac dress. Seeing her made you regret that life was what it was—painful and obscene—that nothing was settled and peaceful. With a woman like that, Diego would have liked to wander through sunny countries where there was no injustice.
He said, “If we survive, when all this is over, I want to come back to this hotel for a week, when it opens again for tourists.” Michele didn’t reply. Diego said, “I’ll stretch out on the floor right here where I am now, in the middle of all the respectable people who will think I’m mad.”
Michele continued to look out the window, not turning around. Then he turned and quickly said, as though it were about to escape his mind, “Diego, if you want any bread, my wife has brought some. She’s given it to a soldier who will give us some.”
Diego asked, “Your wife came? Did she speak . . .”
Michele did not look him in the eye; he was staring now at the ceiling. “Listen, Diego, I’ve had it. Snakeskin’s shafted me. Luciano told my wife. She’s down there crying.” These were Michele’s words; and in those words was the simplicity of something long feared and now inevitable.
Michele had started to pace up and down the hallway, his hands in his pockets, his enormous eyes hidden beneath his heavy eyelids. Sometimes the others addressed him and he stared back at them, bewildered, as though having to return from a great distance to focus on what they were saying. Maybe he was thinking of the void, in order to prepare himself for not existing.
Diego followed Michele’s pacing from where he sat, worried that the other prisoners in their ignorance would put an end to that death-walk: one word from the talk of living men might be enough to make Michele suddenly desperate for the life he knew he’d lost. Diego knew that the man in the hallway was walking toward death, that it was now merely a thousand or two thousand paces away. This was Michele’s funeral procession: he was a dead man pacing to his own grave, along that hallway with its flaking stucco ceiling roses and the faded traces of wall mirrors above the marble mantels.
As he watched Michele, Diego reflected on him. An aging comrade, Michele was a good man, despite his faults: not very courageous, not entirely in line with the Party. They had often quarrelled over Michele’s obsession with spouting slogans, his desire to always be right, his claim to be an autodidact.
Now Michele was walking along the hallway, his hands in the pockets of his overcoat, his bald head sunk into his shoulders, his big bovine eyes lost in the void, as if bewildered by the enormity of all that was about to be taken from them. He was a poor soul in an old overcoat, with a three-day beard, but Diego seemed to see in him, in those bovine eyes of his, in his slow absorbed pacing, a threatening force of nature: it seemed to him that Michele would continue to walk like this even after death, that the next day he would enter the rooms where the German officers were enjoying their debauchery—he would come in through the window, enormous but clad still in his poor overcoat, his hands in his pockets, his bald head and his bovine eyes lost in the void, and he would walk with his slow steps in total silence across the champagne-stained tablecloths, past the illuminated Christmas trees, the sparkling Iron Crosses, the naked breasts and thighs, to the German officers’ consternation and the women’s screams. And he would continue thus to walk the earth, even after the war was over. The rich would have no peace in their houses, no joy in their families, without this short but enormous man coming in through the windows and crossing their rooms. On the tables around which war and peace are decided, and everywhere that people obstruct, destroy, or lie to others, wherever falsehood is preached, wherever unjust gods are adored, there would always appear the shade of the man killed at the harbor that evening.
One of the prisoners spoke of men hanged by the Germans; Diego saw Michele dangling from a harbor lamppost, and it seemed to him that all the men around him had killed Michele, all of them; it was an endless sin that would remove all joy from their lives, and that could be expiated only at the end of time.
In the ripples where Michele had disappeared into the water, all that floated was his overcoat, its arms outstretched like a cross. The bell in the red buoy in the middle of the harbor rang out for the dead comrade, undulating in the waves. Beneath the water, the hawser that anchored the buoy ended in a noose, with Michele’s neck inside it. But then Michele’s head floated to the surface, green with seaweed, with staring eyes; it let out a cry. The old man dressed in hunting gear got up in the night and began to urinate, groaning, standing enormous over all of them. The rivers overflowed; all men, good and evil, were submerged. The old man’s organs, weary from having generated all men, were now drowning the universe. Only Snakeskin fled over the earth, trying to escape, rub-bing his sweaty hands, which were doused in the foul water of the hotel bidets. But every coffin held a dead man, murdered by him; the crowd surrounded him, submerged him in the flood.

The van was late that evening and everyone was relieved, saying that it would not come. Michele waited, watching from the window in the gathering gloom. Instead, four tourist buses arrived, driven by German soldiers. There was agitation, questioning, speculation among the inmates. Soon, the sergeant came up with his list and called out their names, one by one. Michele and Diego were called, along with the others, by the false names they had given; indeed, the sergeant made a mess of Michele’s name, as though he had never really understood it.
The prisoners were divided into four groups and put onto the coaches one by one. Diego and Michele found themselves together again, still part of the crowd, which was almost jealous of the injustice the two comrades had suffered. In the anxious voices of those men, one word erupted from God knows where: “Marassi, Marassi. They are taking us to the Marassi prison.” But that word was, in a way, a source of comfort to Michele and Diego—it meant that they were leaving, leaving the anguish of living beside death, leaving Snakeskin and his ambiguity, leaving these familiar places that were teeming with traps.
Diego felt the rough cloth of Michele’s overcoat beneath his fingers, felt the blood flowing again through his arteries. He said, “I told you that Luciano talked balls. Didn’t I tell you?”
And Michele said over and over again, “What a bullshitter, eh?” with a smile that was now more relaxed, as though he were finally getting the joke.
And the comrades understood that whatever their destiny, whatever violence, cries, and exhaustion awaited them, they would nevertheless savor the bloody taste of being alive, of sharing pain like bread. The harsh tang of life would stay with them from now on, in the screaming tunnels of Marassi, in the desolate barracks of the [REDACTED], all the way until they came back. 

