ADINA, ASTRID, CHIPEWEE, JASMINE
By Matthew Klam

Saturday night [REDACTED] sat staring at a candle. It was after eight. She needed to eat.
She hadn’t felt tired yet. She’d had a perfect pregnancy—no rashes, no fat feet, working full time, doing it all. A cartoonist couldn’t have drawn a more adorable creature: rosy cheeks, pudgy nose, lime-green pregnancy pants drawn up over her stomach, white maternity smock.
Erica buzzed the front door with bags from the kebab place, and they set the coffee table and ate on the floor, with their backs against two ottomans. Erica wore fish-net stockings and a cotton cardigan that let her cleavage fall out, and told [REDACTED] about the sex she was having with her outlaw boyfriend, Malcolm—who couldn’t commit, said he needed to “live monastically,” then showed up at her house every night so riddled with guilt that she ended up comforting him on the rug in her foyer as he ripped her clothes off.
[REDACTED] ate too fast, choking on hummus, and accidentally drank what was left of Erica’s wine. It tasted like cough syrup. She finished her kebab and rubbed a food stain off her shirt. Erica stared across the table at [REDACTED] as though she were trying to unscrew her own head.
[REDACTED] was embarrassed. It was mid-April. She was due June 17th. You were supposed to slip naturally into the new shape; you were supposed to love it. But she’d popped out hugely, and felt like a bear sipping tea. She was going to be a terrible mother.
After dinner, Malcolm arrived. He was tall and reddish, with a windburned face—he built houses for a living. He towered over them, touching them both, and invited [REDACTED] to join him and Erica at a party in the Palisades. [REDACTED] said she was too tired, and noticed him staring at her breasts and her belly, like a moron. When she kissed him good night, her face got hot. It was the wine, or hormones out of whack.
She got into bed but couldn’t fall asleep. On TV, Brad Pitt was dressed in a black leather miniskirt, playing a warrior from ancient times who slept nude in animal skins. Lying there, she thought about Malcolm and his doglike stare. She used her vibrator, in an attempt to wear herself out, and accidentally broke her water. But she was two months shy of her due date and whatever came out, this little puddle, meant nothing to her. She wondered instead whether she’d finally hit her G-spot.
Sunday morning, she woke up with a warm physical pressure, almost like sadness, bearing down on her vagina. She was bleeding a little, but then it went away. By noon the pressure had shifted, and was sitting in her pelvis, where her bowels were. She left a message for Kevin at his hotel in [REDACTED], then another, until he called back. She ate some chicken, and then walked a mile and a half down Wisconsin Avenue to her gym, swam for an hour, and walked home. At four that afternoon, she tried to nap, but her belly hurt. She gave up on napping and waited for Kevin to come home.
Kevin spent the weekend shooting video of people speaking at a journalism conference—a Nixon-era geezer, a dopey mountaineer whose only training before typing up his best-seller had been a job painting boats. Nobody stuck to the subject, or laid out the fundamentals of writing Kevin needed for the video he had to put together. Famous people—Joyce Linden Fogg—whispered in a huge auditorium off the main lobby; Branson Kheils, a public-radio icon, rambled on about his first show in [REDACTED] (a pig slept in the yard behind the station) and brought down the house.
By Sunday afternoon, Kevin stood sagging under the weight of his twelve-pound camera; his overheating spotlight burned the side of his head as Dustin Christensen addressed the full session of two thousand to close the conference. Nothing about his latest project had been difficult, Christensen said, not the research or the writing. He’d infiltrated Afghani terrorists, slept beneath flying bullets. He’d used the proceeds from his blockbuster to build schools and roads in the mountains that once bred killers. Every word, every twitch transfixed the packed ballroom. It was the publicity tour that almost killed him, he said, and the [REDACTED] movie, and the luggage he’d lost on his way here. When the author finally took questions, Kevin slumped against the wall with the kind of exhausted relief you get from throwing up.
At last, back in his hotel room, Kevin wandered around in such a stupor that he packed too slowly and missed his plane. Waiting on standby at the airport, gazing at magazines at the newsstand as evening descended, he thought of all the things he’d never be, speeches he’d never give. He couldn’t afford to buy a magazine because he was still waiting for the money from his last job, a heartwarming fund-raising film he’d shot for a fancy private high school. He felt so rotten he almost phoned [REDACTED], but their last conversation warded him off.
“Sorry,” he’d said when he finally reached her during the lunch break.
“Oh, God, Kevin,” she’d said.
“What’s wrong?”
“I just dropped a piece of chicken down my bra.”
“I only have a second.”
“Now I’m all covered with slime and grease on me. It’s disgusting.”
“It’s O.K.,” he’d said, because she was alone, and apparently bleeding, and seemed to be having some kind of problem. “I’m sorry you don’t feel well.”
“I drank wine last night by mistake,” she said. “She’s probably dead.”
“My session is starting.”
“Somebody get this thing out of me. Cut it out of me now.”
Kevin had been out of college for two years when he got his first real job, writing press releases for an American gas company. He’d been living in cheap countries as an experiment, travelling to avoid working, but ended up in 4a6170616e, where people worked so hard they dropped dead on the sidewalk. It made the expat thing a little pointless. Back home, he spent nine years doing video production at a P.R. agency before starting his own business.
Nobody in his family had ever made a living in an imaginative career, and Kevin had no great store of talent, but, while at the agency, he began quietly working on his own film, a documentary. He’d read about this kid in the paper, a five-foot-six-inch basketball phenom named Durrell, who’d been beaten and starved as a child, and now played at a nearby college. Kevin politely stalked Durrell, and began making trips to his dorm room to tape these mind-blowing stories of life in the Montclair, New [REDACTED], projects. Durrell’s mom was a “roller,” and his dad had gone to jail for hitting someone with a sledgehammer. He had a stoic way of speaking that made him look, onscreen, like he was falling asleep. But so what. Kevin met the foster family, and filmed their evening meals, and flew to road games at his own expense, and shot hundreds of hours of footage—of coaches on leafy strolls, of Durrell playing XBox and doing his raps. After almost three years, with no end in sight, he finally gained the trust of Durrell’s twin sister, a single mother on welfare, who was killed sometime later in a random act of violence.

Durrell blew his knee out at the end of his junior year, and then flopped in a pro league in Europe, and stopped returning Kevin’s calls. At about the same time, a film with an identical theme appeared in theatres, to huge acclaim, and Kevin sort of fell apart. Since then, he’d started a few other projects—documentaries, conceptual video art, screenplays, children’s books—but had quit them all. Though he still dreamed of finishing the film, or at least editing a promo, or whatever you call it, or at least watching some of the footage, he felt that the time for his own dreams had ended, or would soon, because he’d be a father, and he’d have to stand aside for the next generation—while also remaining upright, embalmed, rotting, for eternity.
On the flight home, he sat in a broken seat by the toilet and stared out the window as the engine wobbled beneath the wing. If it fell off now, the plane would smash into the [REDACTED] shore. Maybe, if he lived, he could make a documentary about that. He’d interview the survivors, teasing out his own story, then slowly turn the camera on himself to reveal the hideous burns all over his disfigured head! Or he could write some kind of magazine article about it, or a book, or novelize it, or try it as a feature-film script. . . . It would be easier just to die.
At five, [REDACTED] thought she had to poop. She tried to call Kevin and took half a Midol. At seven, it came in waves; it bent her in half. I’m just wound up, she thought. I’m hungover. Because she was seven months pregnant, she got out the midwife’s card and called, apologizing for bothering her on a Sunday evening. The midwife said, “If you go to the emergency room, they’ll give you stuff to calm your cramps.”
“The emergency room?”
“We can’t do anything for you here.” The pamphlet from the midwife’s office described warm baths, lavender butter smeared on your forehead. What the hell was the point if at the first sign of anything they sent you to the hospital?
“All I eat is chicken. Do you think I have food poisoning?”
“It’s possible.”
“If I did, would it hurt the baby?” The woman didn’t know. Jesus.
By the time [REDACTED] got downstairs, she was walking like her Grandma [REDACTED] before [REDACTED] had both hips replaced. She breathed heavily, leaning on a stack of magazines by the front door. She had a little trouble deciding on her next move and panicked and called 911. When a voice answered, she apologized and walked outside to her car. She felt like she was being whacked with a two-by-four.
Kevin landed at around seven and went straight to his office and dumped the footage onto his computer. The office was in a basement and his cell phone didn’t ring down there; he ignored the regular phone, because the sequence of the sixty-eight speeches had to be tagged correctly.
At nine o’clock, he called home and to his relief got the machine. He left a message saying that he still had more work to do and that [REDACTED] should go to sleep without him. Please, God, he thought. And now he had to go find somewhere to eat. He hated eating alone. He just wanted five minutes with somebody other than [REDACTED]—who was grossly pregnant and uncomfortable, and kept the fan turned on so high in the bedroom that he had to build a wall of pillows to keep from being blown onto the floor.
Times were hard, and bound to get harder. The sound of a key in the lock—anything triggered [REDACTED]’s insomnia. She woke up if a bird flew past the window. Last week, a chunk of her hair fell out. She lost her wallet in the lining of her coat, and, when she found it, she closed the bathroom door and cried. Her belly was immense and her boobs were veiny and her nipples were brown. She smelled different—like cooked custard. And she had an attitude now: “Stand back, here I come.” She passed many sleepless nights eating nuts in bed, crunching with a squirrel’s vigor. It altered their private business. Kevin loved sex, normally, anytime, anywhere. But now the sex was weird, because what exactly was going on down there? When he stared at that lump under the blanket, he felt self-conscious; he sensed an audience of skepticism and disapproval.
If he tried to talk to his sister or his mom about it, they got angry. If he said a word to his friends, the single guys acted horrified that a person could smell like custard, and the guys who had kids didn’t care.
He and [REDACTED] got married three years ago, and right away they began trying. When nothing happened, he figured God was punishing him for something. They’d been together for almost a year before the wedding, and their early days had been filled, for him, with the excitement of loving her so much better than [REDACTED], his terrible last girlfriend, who’d slept on a horsehair mattress she inherited from her grandmother. [REDACTED] was by far the most beautiful woman Kevin had ever touched, and the most decent—passionate to the point of hysteria about a five-year plan for public charter schools. She was slight and wore the same T-shirt to bed every night and had a pretense of helplessness, which applied mainly to lifting the five-gallon water jug, but it made loving a skinny girl romantic, and he’d loved her in greater quantity than he’d ever loved anyone. He was in love; she was easy to love. He’d walk through the door every night and be, like, “I’m living with someone and I’m going to marry her.”
She had a puffy little moonface, and Kevin loved to kiss the soft belly of each cheek, but within five minutes something always happened to ruin the moment. At first, he took the awkwardness between them for lack of experience, but that wasn’t the problem. They just didn’t like to talk to each other. She’d start a story in the middle, and if he asked a question she’d say, “What? Huh?,” as if she needed a hearing aid. Any time they spent alone together, whenever one of them asked the question “How are you?” it was like writing a thank-you note to a grandparent in a nursing home. By the time those moments ended, Kevin was a wreck. But then he’d been in relationships with good conversations, too. Understanding killed attraction just as quickly. Here at least the mystery kept things primitive and charged.
Their conversations improved with practice, but when he couldn’t knock her up the awkwardness returned. At some point, he decided to shut up more, so she shut up more, too, but that just made them strangers to each other. After a year, they found a clinic and she began making frequent trips to the doctor and they went ahead with it, not talking.
There was the Hawaiian porno tape he jerked off to at the clinic, the menstrual cycle on the refrigerator, the shots he gave her—big injections in her ass, little ones in her stomach. The pills she shoved in her pussy to make the lining more hospitable. The brave declarations they made as they faced the debate—donor egg versus flying to 4368696e61.

Months passed, and it all became this tricky thing, like a blur in a photograph. She was blurring, smudging, not herself. Then there were the phone calls from the clinic—“Do it now”—the requisite screwing, the livestock feeling of it, the injunction against fiddling with himself, the creeping sensation that they were using up the last few drops he had, crawling toward the end.
She was ashamed. She starved herself on popcorn and soda and got too thin. He did everything he could to get away, staying late at work, eating dinner in a restaurant alone. A distance opened up between them. It was his failure, his weakness, but he couldn’t tell anyone about it. He’d stopped loving [REDACTED] when he couldn’t get her pregnant, but then, after two years of a humiliating and expensive twenty-nine-thousand-dollar fertility process, they’d succeeded, and now that she was pregnant he wished she was dead.
There’d been a case on television of a man who’d killed his pregnant wife, spawning special news reports. Tooling around the Internet, Kevin had learned that one in five pregnant women who died was murdered. A quarter of men who killed their wives killed them when they were pregnant. Women were strangled, bludgeoned, choked, drowned, burned alive, shot on the way home from a birthing class. Why didn’t the guys just leave? Now he knew. He couldn’t imagine actually strangling anyone, but the existence of the trend lofted him up on a dizzy little puff of curiosity. Watching [REDACTED]’s belly grow, seeing her change, altered his world like a snowfall quieting everything. And yet he was nuts. He felt like he’d sawed off the top of his head. Instead of wondering how to fix it, he gave himself a gift: despair without shame. Freedom from the necessary revulsion with himself. Like some miserable Goth kid, his thoughts went straight to hell and made him stronger.
A paramedic took [REDACTED] up to the sixth floor in a wheelchair and one nurse put a bracelet on her wrist while another drew five vials of her blood. She liked all the attention. She got the feeling that they’d seen cramps like these before, which reassured her. Another nurse entered with papers to sign, and a fourth asked concerned, insightful questions. Two of the nurses were blond and wore diamond engagement rings, and another was worn out and motherly. The prettiest one put [REDACTED] in stirrups.
As a teen-ager, she’d spent some time in a hospital for bulimia and suicidal behavior, and she’d always looked back on it as the regimen that put order in her life, helped her collect herself and recover. The friends she’d made there, bound to her by their secret shame, remained the most important ones she had, to this day. Anyway, if she hadn’t been locked up in that place she’d be dead.
Tonight she lay in the maternity ward of a teaching hospital, and the young doctor on call, a third-year resident, stepped into the examining room a little bleary, feeling his way around the room, blinking at her as though he’d come from somewhere dark. One side of his face was wrinkled where it appeared he’d been sleeping on it.
“You’re having some pain,” he said, and gloved up. “You need to maintain your fluids.” He sat on a stool, and set a sealed plastic bag of metal instruments on top of her big bare stomach, and then began looking around, spinning on the stool. And then everyone had to laugh, because he was looking for the very bag that was right in front of him! He opened the bag and took out a speculum, which he stuck crookedly into her, accidentally cutting her. Her spasming innards rocketed into a worse state. She panicked. He twisted it around inside her.
“Yuh—you’re in labor,” he said loudly, “three centimetres,” and his voice broke when he said it. “You’re breech.” He called for a sonogram and sent for the attending. When he withdrew the speculum, it had candy-apple-red blood on the end. There was blood on his glove, and he slid it off into the garbage as though it were covered with worms. He stared down at the floor and smiled apologetically, and the nurses rolled the sonogram machine into place and squirted gloop on [REDACTED]’s belly.
The attending was a woman in her fifties with copper highlights in her hair. She held [REDACTED]’s hand and spoke softly as she moved the sonogram thing around. She asked the young doctor what he saw on the screen. He studied the ghostly image. She turned to [REDACTED] and said, “Is there a possibility your water broke at some point in the last day or two?”
“My water?”
“Because there doesn’t seem to be too much in there.”
[REDACTED] remembered the stuff coming out the night before. “How much is missing?”
The attending wiggled the thing more. The contractions were seven minutes apart. Stopping them would be tricky, she said. Bringing the baby out now would be worse. More nurses came into the room. One asked if there was a family member [REDACTED] could call. She’d left messages for Kevin in three places. She gave them Erica’s number.
They wheeled her into a room with a view of the plaza, and the attending put a clear bag of viscous-looking fluid called magnesium sulfate into the [REDACTED] machine, assuring [REDACTED] that it was safe. “Some people don’t love this drug,” she explained. “But it helps the muscles to relax, to stop your contractions. We need to stop your contractions,” she said, and left.
It hit her head first. Almost immediately, [REDACTED] went cross-eyed and half dead.
He called his buddy Ethan. He wanted to meet him at Schwann’s, an old wood-panelled restaurant in [REDACTED] where Khrushchev had once sat with Nixon for a photo op, where the waiters were old men who wore smocks and kept their faces frozen while you ordered. Ethan understood what Kevin was going through; he was married, with three kids. But Ethan had a gigantic book contract that was killing him—he had to get some work done—so he told Kevin to stop by the house instead.
Ethan lived in this fucking mansion on P Street, a National Historic Landmark, according to the plate by the door. The doorknob was brass, and the size of a grapefruit. Trips to Ethan’s house left Kevin feeling worthless and desperate, although Ethan’s family had enough problems, the older girl with two-per-cent listening comprehension, the younger one shoplifting from stores on M Street, the three-year-old boy refusing to speak except in the broken English of the Guatemalan nanny. Ethan had written two decent books on politics and almost finished a third; and he had a good job talking on a cable news show. But he’d married Carrie, who was worth whatever the stock market did to the third of a billion dollars she’d inherited in 1990, and her wealth made it hard for him to keep his balls.
As Kevin came in, he could hear Ethan’s girls screaming up the wide staircase, or maybe down in the ballroom they’d had painted like a jungle and filled with trampolines. If someone were being flayed alive it might have sounded the same way, that screaming, but Ethan just sighed and clucked his tongue, leading the way past fresh-cut flowers and oil paintings, until they entered the white-tiled kitchen with its endless counters, where a fat Rottweiler looked up to see what they were doing. Kevin could hear Carrie, somewhere, calling Ethan’s name.

In the refrigerator were sodas and open wine bottles, a tray of wilted vegetables from a caterer, and part of a cake. They stood smearing butter on pieces of focaccia, listening to the screams. When a lull hit, Ethan yawned. Over the weekend, he and Carrie had hosted three parties: one for Carrie’s grandmother, one for a nine-year-old, and one for Eliot Spitzer.
“I’m not gonna make it,” he said, meaning the deadline for his book.
“You’ll make it.” There was a bottle of [REDACTED] on the counter and they each had a shot. It tasted like gym socks soaked in gasoline. They had another. Soon the kitchen started to feel more like Schwann’s.
“How was your thing in [REDACTED]?”
“Fine.”
“[REDACTED] O.K.? You ready? To become a father, a dad? You psyched?”
Kevin said yes.
“You’re having a little girl.”
“I know,” Kevin said. “Here’s to the greatest adventure a man can know.”
“Aye, muchacho,” Ethan said.
It sounded like furniture was being dragged across the floor upstairs. “Carrie!” Ethan yelled toward the dining room. “Honey, is everything O.K.?” They waited. “You’ll be fine,” he said to Kevin.
Carrie appeared in the back of the kitchen, having materialized from somewhere, like a ninja. She said hi to Kevin, but her lips were tight. “You’re on for the rest of the night,” she told Ethan, and filled a glass with water. “You haven’t done a fucking thing all weekend.” She walked out.
“Heh-heh,” Ethan said. He walked to the foyer. “Don’t leave.”
“I should get going.”
“I’m just gonna check on things.”
“I’d better go.”
Ethan called back. “Don’t move.”
“I’ll see you later.” Kevin let himself out as Ethan walked up the stairs.
An hour later, the young doctor threw the door open carrying a big yellow coffee mug with a smiley face on it and sort of skipped into the room as though he were kicking through rain puddles. “Doin’ all right?” he asked, taking a drink from his mug. “How’s the mag working out for ya?” He walked around, making notes on her chart. “Sometimes magnesium makes people irritable. It causes the heart to beat irregularly.”
“Is this active labor?” She was shouting. “Is it stopping? Am I going to work tomorrow?” Her tongue tasted like aluminum.
“What do you mean by active labor?”
“My doctors told me to call if there was news. My midwife.”
“We called them.” He tapped her knees, her wrists, and her elbows, then her ankles and feet. No reflexes. The computer by [REDACTED]’s head indicated that her contractions were getting stronger. “Let us know if you have any double vision,” he said.
[REDACTED] said, “Yes, I do.”
He made a note and turned the lights off and let the door bang shut.
On his way up Connecticut Avenue, Kevin stopped in Woodley Park, in front of the building where a woman named Cynthia lived. She was the ex-girlfriend of a guy named Artie, who’d made films for the Discovery Channel and had a shelf full of Emmys. She’d taken Artie’s old job and brought Kevin in to help her with a two-hundred-page script she’d inherited on the birth of Islam. Together, they’d cut it down to four and a half scintillating minutes, to be aired one day on the channel’s Web site. Over the last three months, they’d met half a dozen times in a tiny editing suite, a cockpit with carpeted walls, and in that warm, hushed darkness they’d chatted and commiserated and drunk soda and confessed.
They’d discovered that they were both dying to move to [REDACTED] to jump-start their careers. They’d both pitched the same guy at Showtime, with the same result. Cynthia had been a dancer in her youth, and had débuted at [REDACTED] Ballet at nineteen; two weeks later, she’d dislocated her hip—had to be lifted and hauled off-stage. Kevin completely understood, because of his own unfulfilled promise. She couldn’t explain to anybody how it made her feel, but Kevin knew that an awful, unfixable thing would never stay buried.
She was a tall, thin woman with broad shoulders and a skinny neck and a scrunched-up little mouse face. She had huge brown eyes, and this heavy bosom, and she’d lean over and put her boobs on the table between them in the editing suite and scream back at Kevin about their sketchy luck and stare into his eyes like a maniac. He liked that.
It was late. He probably should’ve called first. She was the only woman he could think of within eighty miles who was single and answered her phone after nine o’clock at night.
He didn’t want to go home yet. It was spring, and a velvety breeze touched his arms, and tender little green buds hung softly under the streetlights. There was only now, and that made living exquisite. And, anyway, he’d be dead someday and none of it would matter. Also, if he came in and woke [REDACTED] up she’d lie there, devastated, for the next six hours, sighing her ass off, and would blame him, and he’d take the blame, and feel terrible.
The only light in the room came from the monitor by her head, hooked to her belly, a sickly orange glow. The only sound came from the baby’s pounding rhythm, amplified through the machine, like a little air compressor blasting away. Choo-choo. [REDACTED] turned her face to the wall when the pain came, and wrapped her hand around the rubber-coated railing on the bed, dug her nails into the rubber, squeezed her eyes shut, and opened her mouth wide, but there was no sound. Something flipped inside. During the gaps in the flipping, she let go. Her body had been built according to certain rules, but those rules had now been broken. If it got any worse, she would have to kill herself. She could crawl to the window and slide out. She dug into the rubber. When Kevin showed up, he would call everyone. She felt hopeless, lonely.
A soft, round, coffee-colored orb appeared near [REDACTED]’s head. It was a face, powdery smooth, with trustworthy lines, and it spoke with an accent from somewhere—the Caribbean, maybe—partly reading in a breezy rhythm, from notes, “. . . serious complications, of course, the risks in bringing a baby out of the womb prematurely are known . . . cerebral palsy, neurologic disorders, developmental delays.”
There was white stuff caked around the edge of [REDACTED]’s mouth. Her gums were bleeding and she moved her tongue to try to find out where.
“Higher risks of retardation, asthma, and congenital aortic deformities . . . It’s not uncommon for preemies to undergo a number of surgeries.”
Then it was quiet, thank God, and the woman asked if [REDACTED] had any questions. Ha, yeah. When [REDACTED] shook her head, it thudded, and fell into thudding rhythm with the choo-choo of the heart monitor, and the two of them sailed off on a glassy blue bay. The woman wrote something with what looked like a turkey thermometer. [REDACTED] turned her face to the wall when the pain came.
Scanning the face of the building for Cynthia’s glowing windows, Kevin took a minute to think about what he’d say, then called from the street and told her how the man who ran publicity at the journalism conference had made him shoot the floral arrangements in the lobby, offering cinematic insights. “ ‘Howzabout,’ ” Kevin said in a goofy voice, “ ‘we drop that sunset over the Sheraton sign?’ ”

“You’re kidding me!” Cynthia yelled. “Shut up!”
“I’m thinking about becoming a wedding videographer.”
“Jesus, shut up!” she said.
“Hey, I have your lens,” he said. “I didn’t want to leave it in the office where somebody could swipe it. I’ll drop it off on my way home.”
He waited by his car on the corner, and a few minutes later Cynthia brought her dog, Jasper, downstairs. She wore a cute navy-blue miniskirt and a spangly T-shirt that said “Ciao Roma.” They walked around the block and then back to the entrance to her building. In his mind, he was reporting these actions to someone. The dog, a white Yorkie with Milk Dud eyes, looked up at Kevin, and he took the leash from Cynthia’s hand and ran his fingers over the dog’s head.
Back in March, after a long night at the editing suite, Kevin had driven Cynthia home, but when he pulled up in front of her building she wouldn’t get out. They’d been yakking all night. He hadn’t had so much fun with anybody in five years. He’d wanted to do something. He shivered a little, and leaned over to say good night. She made an oh sound that caught in her throat, a garbage truck scared them, and they had a big laugh and she jumped out. Then, a few weeks later, they’d done the routine again, first talking exhaustively in the editing suite, getting that glow, then sitting in the car until he shivered. But there’d been no makeout session the second time, either, and that was it.
Cynthia had been seeing a guy in [REDACTED], and as they stood at the door she told Kevin that, since the last time she saw him, she’d been floored by the realization that the guy was a drunk. “I’m not afraid to be alone,” she said. “And I’m not afraid I’ll never find love.”
“Of course,” Kevin said. “You’re thirty-two years old.”
“I don’t need any fuckhead boyfriend. I do what I want. I go out almost every night.”
“You’re living your life.”
“You know what I made for dinner tonight?”
“What?”
“An egg-white omelette. With scallions. You know when I ate it? Nine o’clock.”
“I envy your freedom.”
Her skirt had a big plastic zipper on the front, and sat loosely on her hips, and as she talked he noticed that the skirt had slid around and now the zipper was on the side. During her glory days she’d taught ballet to Madonna, and dated a guy in the N.B.A. Kevin thought about those N.B.A. hands on her. He reached forward to give the leash back, and as she took it from him he tipped his head toward hers but she turned away, smiling.
He tried to explain. “I wanted to touch you in the car that night.”
“I always love talking to you,” she said.
“Me, too,” he said.
She looked down. “Am I being too harsh?”
“What is this, ninth grade?” He took the lens out of his bag and handed it to her.
“You’re a total freak,” she said, smiling at him again and taking the lens. Then she got confused and stepped in and jangled him with a long soft hug, jamming herself against him.
He felt even more stupid now. “You sure you don’t want to get one drink?”
“No, God, it’s after eleven. I’m finished.”
“Do you want to smoke a cigarette?”
“Don’t give me all the power, Kevin. What do you think?”
“I think we should go upstairs.”
“Right.”
“Yeah.”
“Don’t look at me that way,” she said. “I don’t want to be the bad guy.”
“You’re just gonna go to sleep?”
“Go home to your pregnant wife.”
Kevin stared at Cynthia. He had to hate her now. Maybe if he strangled somebody other than [REDACTED] he’d feel better. He blinked back tears and crumbled. “She ate three rotisserie chickens this week.”
“That’s good,” Cynthia said sadly. “Fatten her up.”
“She’s fat enough. She looks like Tweedledee, with her preggo stretch pants pulled up to her armpits.”
“That’s cute.”
“I’m gonna kill her in her sleep.”
“What about the baby?”
“You think that would hurt the baby?”
“It might.”
“See, that’s the rub.”
“It sounds like you don’t like your wife.”
“She has flaws.”
“Well, God.”
“Too many to name.”
“Then she’ll make an excellent mother.”
It was almost midnight when Kevin got home. [REDACTED]’s car was gone, the lights were on, and the front door was unlocked. What a fucking idiot. For a second he couldn’t figure it out. But her book group met some Sundays and usually ran late. He wanted to slap her across the face with a brick.
He wanted her to go somewhere and never come back. He was so sick of this crap. If he left now . . . but that would be impossible. He had to find a way to get rid of her without getting rid of the baby. How could you do that?
He loved her, but he never wanted to see her again.
Kevin walked into the kitchen and without thinking began placing a stack of clean dishtowels into a drawer in color-coördinated piles.
Her face to the wall, her hand wrapped around the bedrail, she began to pant. Her eyes were fluttering behind her eyelids. Her cheeks puffed, her chin quivered. Then she gasped and her body stiffened. The nurse pushed her chair away from the bed and leaned over and placed her hand on [REDACTED]’s forehead. The gesture startled [REDACTED] and big tears rolled down her face.
The young doctor stood at the foot of the bed. He clicked his penlight a few times and stared out the window at the plaza, at patients smoking cigarettes, trailing their [REDACTED] poles. Against the weatherman’s prediction, it had started to rain.
When the contraction ended, the nurse put [REDACTED]’s bed down flat.
The young doctor said, “Heh-heh. I’ve just gotta, uh—” And he moved to his place between [REDACTED]’s legs. An old goat from the obstetrics department strode in with military purpose and introduced himself to [REDACTED]. The young doctor very carefully inserted his fingers. “Please stop moving,” he said. He thought he was feeling the skull, but then realized that it was still the hip. “Still three,” he said.
“Talk to her,” the old goat barked.
“You’re still three centimetres dilated.”
The old goat bent over and stuck his hand into [REDACTED] as though reaching for car keys that had fallen down the drain, and then cleared some phlegm from his throat. “Show me three.” The young doctor held his index fingers about three centimetres apart. The old goat said, “That’s five,” and pulled the young doctor’s hands apart. “That’s eight. Slide over. Get out of the way.”
Kevin carried his luggage upstairs and got undressed, glancing out the window for [REDACTED]’s car. He thought back to his one big breakup after college, a relationship that had ended fairly well after five years, and he pictured that late-afternoon goodbye—he and Lisa had packed up the car, the car they’d bought together, and sat on the steps and split up the pictures in the photo album, then stood and hugged. Then she’d said something he never forgot, “Hey, you were good to me,” and he said that she’d been good to him, too, and she drove away. And even now, after all this time, he missed her so much it ached to think about that day. He still talked to her every once in a while, and it was so easy to talk, easier than it had ever been with [REDACTED]. After she left, he’d gone upstairs to the empty apartment where they’d both been crying for weeks, and ordered Chinese food and turned on the TV and felt total relief. For a few months, he’d gone crazy, stayed out late, dated a cyclist named Jade, visited 43756261, and worked weekends. But he didn’t establish anything with anyone, and he lived alone for a few years. There was the feeling of having been burned. By what, though? And now he had that feeling again, that lonely feeling, with [REDACTED]—he’d been burned by all of this, by his own hopes, and by his inability to do anything about the situation, to change the bad parts. Look at the mess, look at what he’d done. He was the only guy he knew who liked his wife and still tried to cheat on her every chance he got. That wasn’t progress. It was nothing he’d recommend.

He felt, in the shower, as if he were washing off all the failures of the weekend. When he got out, she still wasn’t home. The house was small and there was no other place for it, so one corner of the bedroom was being turned into a nursery. It had a stuffed penguin on the floor and a cardboard box of old baby clothes from his brother. The crib would be there in a month. Without unpacking his bag, Kevin got into bed and listened for [REDACTED]’s car, but it had been a long day and he passed out.
The old goat hung his face at [REDACTED] and said, “We’re getting a room ready. We’re taking you in.”
She felt herself going cold. The anesthesiologist pushed a painkilling narcotic into the [REDACTED] and inserted the epidural. Nurses in masks flowed about her. They dropped the bedrail, slid her onto a gurney, and suddenly she lay there, on the cold plate, chatty as hell, her euphoria ballooning.
“I’m not going to work tomorrow, that’s for sure. I’m on maternity leave now, that’s for sure.”
People busied themselves around her. Finally, the young doctor said, “That’s right.”
“I’m a mom now. I will be in a minute,” she said. The young doctor grabbed her [REDACTED] as they turned her. She caught his stare and held it and said, “I already love her so much.”
Bin Laden got her. Kevin should’ve known. She’d been buried, and he looked everywhere and found her, at last, in [REDACTED], in the middle of the street, probably dead and covered with pavement, except for her face, and he looked down and saw that cute little face of hers. Who’d done this? Bin Laden. He had to get her out. There were alarms going, ringing out loud, the police. They’d come from headquarters and were going door to door, banging on the houses along M Street. And you could hear the boom-boom of construction crews down on Thirty-fifth, trying to break up the street to save her, but they weren’t here yet and he didn’t know who else they had to save and he would just have to wait and it was awful, terrible—they were calling Kevin’s name.
Then, in the fuzzy air between dreaming and consciousness, he heard [REDACTED] screaming his name, whapping on the door, and he stood dizzily and was moving downstairs in his underwear. From the other side of the door, she screamed for him. She didn’t have her keys, she must have lost her keys. No wonder he’d had to marry her—she was so stupid.
But it was Erica, [REDACTED]’s friend from the nutso ward, looking weird. Kevin said, “[REDACTED]’s not here.”
“You have to come to the hospital.”
“What?”
“You’re having a daughter.”
“You what?”
“She’s at the hospital.” It went on like that for another ten seconds before he got it.
[REDACTED] said, “I was lying on the couch at seven o’clock tonight and I thought I had food poisoning.”
“Uh-huh,” the young doctor said. They were moving quickly, rolling her down the hall.
“I had the worst pain in my life and then it went away and five minutes later it came back. It never entered my mind I was in labor.”
They stopped under the surgical lights inside the operating room. She could feel something cool, like ice water, across her belly.
“Can we wait a minute?” [REDACTED] asked. “He’ll be here soon, I hope.” The young doctor pulled his mask down and looked at the clock.
“I have to tell you,” [REDACTED] said. “You’re a doctor, so you’ll know.”
“I’m in medical school. I graduate in June.”
“They had this movie on TV with Brad Pitt.” She started to cry.
“It’s O.K.”
“I did something.”
“All right.”
“I wanted her out. I kept saying that, ‘Get her out.’ ”
The young doctor waited another second. “You didn’t mean it.”
“I’m sorry.”
“We’re not machines,” he said.
Erica pulled up to the hospital entrance and Kevin ran down the long corridor to the B-Wing elevator. Up on the sixth floor a nurse led him, shaking, into Labor and Delivery. It wasn’t a heart attack so much as he’d strained the muscles that surrounded his heart. She gave him a paper suit and he shook as though he were freezing to death, putting each stitch of his own clothes in a plastic bag that she took from him, leading him into the operating room, where he squinted into the light, smiling at everyone, grinning madly.
“Look who we found,” the nurse said, squeezing his arm. “It’s Dad.”
[REDACTED]’s feet were toward the door. There were a dozen people around her. By her head, one guy fiddled with knobs on a bank of machines that Kevin, in his sleepy state, mistook for a film-editing system. Her legs were strapped down by two black seat belts. She’d been shaved. The skin above her stomach, painted a strange brown, was coated in some kind of wax paper. From her hip bones to her chest, the whole of her torso had been pulled open, a gaping bloody maw, pooling and flooding, stretched. A single band of gauze was tied, on one end, to a hook on the wall and on the other end to a small metal plate stuck in her skin that yanked her open, like something a sailor would rig up to hold a hatch in place. Naked of flesh, brimming with blood, her parts gushing, the pieces of her torso jiggled like gelatine. It looked like a torpedo had crashed through the roof and torn her in half.
Something like adrenaline moved him to the stool beside her head, where he sat behind a sheet that had been raised to hide the surgery from her, and took her hand and kissed it, and kissed her face.
“I feel so bad,” he said, strangling off tears.
“Don’t worry,” she said. “Everything is O.K.” She was gone, stoned, and so pale beneath her blueberry bonnet.
“Did you see anything?” she asked hopefully.
Kevin leaned over her disembodied head. He stroked her cheek. “Nothing. You’re fine.” He tried not to fall apart. His own stomach swam.
They had a little laugh then, in a bubbly, forced way, about the timing of it, how he would’ve been in [REDACTED] if it had happened a night earlier. And laughed about the name they hadn’t picked yet—Adina, Astrid, Chipewee, Jasmine. The people on the other side of the sheet clinked metal tools and mumbled and moved with urgent, clipped streams of nonsense. The old goat grunted epithets. The group fell into a rhythm.
[REDACTED] stopped mid-sentence, wincing, and Kevin lifted a bean-shaped plastic trough to her lips and she vomited into it. He glanced over the curtain and went a little cross-eyed at the sight of her. It was too much.

Two nurses placed their little bloody sponges on a tray and counted them in unison like children singing a nursery rhyme: one, two, three, touching each one, four, five, six, to twenty-five. Then they did it again, and then again.
When the baby came, screaming, [REDACTED] and Kevin stared at each other and froze, smiling dumbly. Finally the old goat said, “Dad, you can look,” and Kevin glanced over the sheet and saw the young doctor holding the baby girl in his gloved hands. She was entirely fishlike and more purple than Kevin had feared, her tiny private parts swollen, her eyes sealed shut, and they wiped her face off as she tried to grab and hug the air in front of her. The doctor held the soft part of his pinkie to the roof of her mouth as the nurse rinsed her face. Then they whisked her away. Kevin kissed [REDACTED] and cried.

Without fanfare, Kevin was led to the baby, one room over, curled in a plastic tray under a heat lamp, writhing and screeching dryly and kicking her legs in the air. He examined her ears and lips and mottled purple skin. Oh, God, he thought as she screamed. Now there are two of them.
A tall, angular, dark-haired nurse strolled over, using the new familiar “Dad,” and lifted the baby’s foot. She needed blood and pricked it, and the baby screamed in a different way, and screamed and screamed, as the nurse calmly worked to bring blood to the glass tube, squeezing the little foot like a lemon, one drop, then another, bending the toes back against the shin, the little earthworm leg held up in the air. It appeared that, in her exuberance, the nurse had pinched off the blood flow to the foot by holding it this way, and Kevin felt sweat run down his back, as the white-hot rage of a thousand burning suns stoked his belly. He imagined himself kicking her, like Bruce Lee, in the head, until she finally released the foot. Because the baby had been in the breech position, her feet sprang up around her ears, and when the nurse pulled them down again they sprang back up and the nurse laughed as the baby screamed. She went to the other heel for blood, and then to a finger. In the end the baby was screaming so hard no sound came out.
Kevin sighed, covered in sweat, and smiled weakly at the nurse, who placed a tiny washcloth in his hand and suggested that he wash his baby. He put a hand on her chest and felt her soft kitten belly, her ribs like pasta. She looked a little like George Costanza.
It was sometime after three in the morning, on the fourteenth of April. Everything about this night reminded Kevin of powerful psychedelic drugs: his endless need to burn energy, his ultra-aware calmness, the sense of solace he found in his own oblivion, the way he moved among normal people, a changed human, unseen, and the feeling that he’d held back from learning all this until now. A torrent of new insights refused to recede. He checked in on [REDACTED], then went back to the baby. He patrolled the sixth floor. He’d shifted his consciousness into a cosmic framework that no one on earth had experienced before. The lights were down in the neonatal I.C.U. The baby had two 43616e616461s and five wires connected to her, four on her chest, one on her ankle. The monitors glared above her. One was heart rate, one was respiration, one was oxygen level in the blood. He watched the beats. He watched and watched. He had nothing else in the world to do, and felt more peaceful and alert than he could ever remember. Beside him, in the dark room, a mother sat bleakly rocking in front of her glass case. Inside the case was a very tiny baby with a thin tube taped to its face, staring into space, dwarfed by its diapers, with a sock on its head, and huge, scary bug-out eyes. When he looked back, he realized that his baby was no bigger.
He watched his daughter’s chest rising, a little hamster movement. He noticed that the tape holding the [REDACTED] to the back of her ridiculous little hand was bloody. She slept peacefully, and her face shifted, and as it did she looked a little like his grandfather, then Jack Welch, and then Charlie Brown, snoozing by the window on a rainy afternoon.
He went back and sat at [REDACTED]’s side. The lights were off there, too. He checked her chest, rising and falling, watched her breathe. She also wore a diaper. The temperature in the hospital was frigid. On her hand, he noticed a bloody piece of tape holding her [REDACTED] in place and his heart ached for her and his throat burned. It came over him in a rush, in a moment, and he got rid of it just as quickly. She’d gone through it alone, and now she needed everything; she needed rest, she had to sleep. When she woke up, he’d be in this chair, with his two eyes open. A new motor inside him was running on high. 

