A BETTER ANGEL
By Chris Adrian

“I wouldn’t do that if I were you,” she told me the first time we met. Six years old, I was digging under a log, looking for worms. This was back when my father still had all his property, and I could walk for the whole afternoon without leaving his orange groves. I spent a lot of time amusing myself that way, making up games, inventing friends to play with, since I really had none of my own, or looking for buried treasure. My sisters were all much older and hated to have me underfoot, so they’d draw fake maps, age them by beating them in the sand with a baseball bat and burning them around the edges, then send me off on quests. I fell for this sort of thing for years.
She was sitting in a tree, gently tapping an orange that hung near her face, making it swing. My imaginary friends were not the kind you could see. I figured her for a smart-aleck picker’s daughter, since it was nearing the end of the season and the groves were full of Guatemalans. She wore a sleeveless yellow dress with a furry kitten face on the front—I remember that very clearly, and remember wondering later how, if she didn’t exist, I could have made that up. Her skin was very dark. Her hair hung past her lap. She looked to be about my age. I ignored her.
Lifting the log up, I disturbed a nest of yellow jackets, which flew out, stinging my face and my neck and my hands. I could see her watching me while I slapped at them and yelled and cried. She said nothing but stood up on the branch and spread her wings out behind her, which amazed and frightened me. I tried to run home but could hardly breathe. I found a group of pickers having their lunch in the grass, and collapsed in front of them, swollen and squeaking.
She came to see me in the hospital. High on I.V. Benadryl, I told anyone who would listen that there was an angel in the room, and the doctors and nurses found that charming. Even back then I was a quick and subtle thinker when I was stoned, and by the time my father asked me about it I had figured out that it would be best to pretend not to know what he was talking about. But when we were alone, and she stood silently at the foot of my bed, looking strange not just on account of the wings but because she was dressed as a doctor, with a white coat and a stethoscope and her hair done up in a smart bun, I asked her why she hadn’t warned me about the wasps. “I’m not that kind of angel,” she said.
Though my father only ever knew a tenth of the trouble I’ve been in, I was still his least favorite child, and the last person he wanted taking care of him when he got very ill. But every one of my sisters was pregnant—one very much augmented and on purpose, and the other two accidents of fate. How they celebrated the coincidence, and then rued it when it forced them to bully me back to [REDACTED] from [REDACTED]. I was in clinic when they called, and it’s a testament to their power-of-three invincibility that they were able to blow through the phone tree and the two receptionists who routinely deny my existence when patients try to find me.
“Dad is sick,” [REDACTED] said.
“He’s been sick,” I said, because this had been going on for a year, and though nobody gets better from metastatic small-cell lung cancer, he’d been holding his own for months and months.
“Dad is sicker,” Christine said, and Carmen added, “Much sicker!” She is the eldest and the (barely) most pregnant.
“He’s in the hospital,” Christine said. “There’s an infection.”
“In his bladder,” [REDACTED] said. There are two years between each of them, but they’ve always seemed like triplets, all with their furrowed brows and disapproving hatchet mouths, all as tall and fair as I am short and dark, all with the same blue eyes that seem just the right color for staring a person down. My eyes, like my father’s, are nearly black, and Carmen says I can hide anything in them.
“A little cystitis,” I said. “So what?”
“Dr. Klar says he’s very ill,” Christine said.
“She doesn’t know if he’ll come out of the hospital,” [REDACTED] said.
“She always says that,” I said. “She never knows. She’s an alarmist. She’s a worrier.”
“You have to go!” they said all together.
“You have to go,” I said. “You go, if it matters so much.”
“We’re pregnant!” they said. And then the individual excuses: mild preëclampsia for [REDACTED] and Christine and a clotty calf for Carmen. They can’t travel from [REDACTED], where they live within waddling distance of one another.
“People travel when they’re eight months pregnant,” I said. “People do it all the time!” Though I knew that they didn’t, and now the angel was sitting on my desk and shaking her head at me.
“You’re a doctor,” they said, as if that should settle it, and I wanted to say that I’m impaired, and a pediatrician to boot. I could have confessed right then, to them and to the whole world—I am an impaired physician—and then started down the yellow brick road to rehab.
Instead, I quietly hung up on them. The angel was still shaking her head. She was dressed to shock, in a filthy housedress, with a plastic shopping bag on her head and a dead cat wrapped around each foot.
“I barely know him!” I shouted at her, but she didn’t respond. Then I told her I had a patient waiting, which she already knew, because there is nothing I’ve ever been able to hide from her.
“Put that lady and her evil children behind you,” she said, not looking up as I swept by her. She did not like Mrs. Fontaine for the obvious reason, but what she had against her two kids I could not figure out, though she has always done that—pointed out the ones that would grow into car thieves or lottery fixers or murderers, as if I were supposed to smother them with the great pillow of righteous prevention when they were six months old.
The Fontaines were waiting patiently in the exam room, Zebadiah splashing in the sink while his mother fed his sister and his aunt read Highlights. I locked the door, and Zebadiah toddled over to check it, an innocent part of our enterprise. “Baby,” Mrs. Fontaine said, meaning me and not her son, “how you been?”
“It’s been a rough day,” I said.
“Well, your friend has got just the thing for a rough day,” she said, and took a little foil-covered package from her diaper bag and laid it on the counter near the sink, and that is all we said about it, because one of our terms of business is a nearly silent sort of discretion. I put down my envelope and she took it, and when her package was in my pocket we talked about her babies.

I examined Zebadiah and then his sister Lily, who was four months old, fat and happy and singing wordlessly as I listened to her heart and fiddled with her hips. The angel paced in the confines of the room, the cats going squish and squash as she stepped, and Lily seemed to be watching her. “A fire from Heaven should come down right now,” the angel said. Though the medicine was only in my pocket, just having it in my possession made it easier to ignore her.
“She’s beautiful,” I said to Mrs. Fontaine.
“She’s all right,” she said, ducking her head and smiling, and her sister reached out to take the baby and hold her for a moment and proclaim that she was indeed a beautiful girl, and then she handed her to her mother, who handed her to me, and then, without knowing why, I handed her back to the sister. Sometimes it happens like that, something entirely bearable, the baby smiling and laughing and going round and round, from hand to hand to hand, and her brother shouting “I’m beautiful, too!” and lifting his arms to be picked up, and all five of us laughing while the angel scowled impotently. I wanted it to go on forever.
“Does everybody get an angel?” I asked her one day, about a month after I met her, when it finally occurred to me to wonder if every boy and girl had a guiding spirit that was invisible to me. I looked around my first-grade class, squinting to see them, the girls in plaid jumpers, the boys in blue pants, looking so ordinary except for their immaculate posture and drooping folded wings.
“Only the ones who will be great or do great things. And sometimes being great is enough. The great things go out, generated as easily as thought or love. Do you understand?”
I cannot describe how gentle her voice could be in those days.
“No,” I said. So when we got home she took me into my father’s library, ignoring my pleas not to enter without his permission, and sat me down in front of the encyclopedia. I opened a volume at random, and she marked with her finger the men and women who had warranted an angel to guide them into their greatness. There were fewer than I’d expected, and as many who were greatly bad as greatly good. I flipped backward through the “A”s, familiar with only one in ten of the names she touched, making the letters shine in a way I could see forever after. Attila I knew, having just heard of him in history class, and taken part in a little skit for which I dressed up in my mother’s furs and shouted in front of the class with five other boys and the girl whose long black hair had landed her the part of the Hun. “But he was bad,” I said, and she said that not everybody listened to his angel.
In medical school, I could not wait to get away from adult hospitals and adult medicines and adult patients, from their aching lower backs and chronic depression and get-me-out-of-work-related injuries. I hated especially the little old ladies with their parchment faces and frail broken hearts, who’d die if you so much as frowned at them. Even a half-dead preemie is more resilient. And I hated the smell—children are not so smelly to begin with, and as they get sick or die they do not give off that odor that fills up adult hospitals and blows out of the angel’s wings when she shakes them in agitation. It always seemed to cling to me after a particularly egregious fuckup in medical school, so for days afterward, just by sniffing my fingers, I’d be reminded of how I had almost killed this or that poor old zombie with my bad math.
The angel seemed to like the hospital where my father was staying, but then she enjoyed death, or at least it seemed to excite her. She was always making a show of smelling people and predicting the hour of their demise. It became the only thing I was good at, distinguishing the really sick ones in the midst of the confusing daily crowd of patients that were presented to me as a student and then as a resident, though I never could remember how to save them. As we entered my father’s [REDACTED] hospital, she had a spring in her step, and though she was dressed as a bag lady once again, she’d exchanged her cats for tissue boxes and shined her wings and put on an elegant, if very dirty, hat. To her mind, I was doing the right thing, and so she had taken it easy on me during the trip, and now she bounced along like a schoolgirl. I think she would have been happier only if I had killed myself.
The nurses did not look up when I walked past their station to the end of the hall where my father had his room, or when I hurried by in the opposite direction, fleeing from him. “Here he is,” the angel said when I walked in—she’d run ahead the last few feet and passed through the wall. She gestured toward him as if he were a new car or a sexy motorcycle in a showroom. When I’d last seen him, he was the same dour black-eyed man I’d known all my life, my six-foot-four, imperious, responsible reflection, a man who I always knew should have had an angel of his own. Now he was laid out diapered in a filthy bed, as bald and toothless and somehow as grand as Aslan on his table. He looked up at me when I walked in and said by way of greeting “You!” and managed to invest the word with equal measures of disappointment, accusation, and surprise. I dropped my book and candy box and ran out.
Some nights as a resident, I would withdraw into the bathroom and leave the intern to flounder and drown, later claiming that I’d never got the frantic pages when in fact I had turned off my pager and was sitting on the toilet with my face in my hands or taking little hits of whatever I was really into that month. There was a bathroom near the elevator on my father’s floor of the hospital, a nice one-person arrangement with a lock on the door.
The angel was there in just a few moments—I never know what delays her, when she can travel at the speed of guilt and sometimes seems to be everywhere at once. She berated me while I hid my face, her voice making the little room seem very full, all the “What do you think you’re doing?”s and “You get back there”s seeming to bounce off the white walls in discrete packages of sound. I am not this sort of doctor, I said to my hands. I am not any sort of doctor and I don’t know what to do about what’s back there in that room. And she said that even if you are the sort of doctor who doesn’t know anything about medicine, and even if you passed your certifying exams only because you paid a certain Dr. Gupta to bypass the pathetic security measures taken against cheats and impostors by the American Board of Pediatrics, you can still recognize a patient at the extremes of abandonment and grief, and even you can do the smallest human thing to improve his lot.

In answer, I gave her a little toot. Not Mrs. Fontaine but another supplier, someone who had been a sort of girlfriend, though only snortable heroin had brought us together, had had a little horn on her key chain which she would bring out in the face of any sort of adversity—a flat tire or a broken foot or syphilis, syphilis being a two-toot trouble. “Toot them away!” she’d say, and laugh really quite innocently. She was beaten by a boyfriend more passionate but less gentle than me, and died one night in the [REDACTED] at the General Hospital while I was on duty seeing children. I recognized her worked-over corpse when I went into the trauma room to fetch a warm blanket for a cold baby.
With just the smallest hit the angel changed. She’d barely warned me not to do it before she was stretching and shaking her wings, and there was that awful stench for a moment, and then there was another odor, fresh grass and cookies and new snow on the sidewalk. And she cast off her haggery with a few shakes of her head, her eyes bright now but not icy like my sisters’, and with several sweeps of her fingers—it’s always as if she were primping for me—she combed the tangles out of her hair. Three times she shook her hips and the housedress became a lovely blue sari, and her pretty feet were naked.
“Take that!” I stuttered at her.
“Better have another,” she said, and I did. Then she stood in front of me with her hands on my shoulders, steadying them while they shook. It wasn’t the first time that I’d felt as if I were flying backward: the toilet was a vessel in the air propelled by weeping, and with her hands she was steering me.
“Do I have to go back there?” I asked her, when I was feeling better.
“Not yet, my love,” she said. “Not until you are good and ready.”
When I was a child, she was always good, but this is not to say that she was never awful. Though many days she was so ordinary a tagalong that I hardly thought of her as an angel, every so often she would put on such majesty that it made me cower. One day in fifth grade, I was half listening to Mrs. Khemlani’s talk about cowboys and Indians. “History always moves west,” Mrs. Khemlani said, because that was one of the truisms she announced at the beginning of the semester, and she liked to point out how right she was about things at some point in every lesson. Books will always be burned, she said, and women are always second-class citizens, and history from the dawn of time has always swept in a westward circle around the globe.
I was daydreaming about Chinese ladies and their very small feet, about which we’d just been learning in social studies. I was fascinated by the pictures we’d seen, and had held on to the little cardboard shoe I’d made, though it was supposed to be drying on the windowsill with the others, so that I could turn it over and over in my hand. The angel was done up that day in the dress and skin of a Chinese girl—sometimes her form obliged my fancy, though I knew I could not control it, having tried to make her take on the shape of a dog or a corncob by staring at her and concentrating until she told me to stop it.
On little feet, crippled feet, she hobbled up to the front of the class when she heard Mrs. Khemlani talking about the grand sweep of history, a look on her face that I had learned to associate with anger over something stupid she’d just heard. I was used to getting lectures that no one else could hear, or having her place a hand on a book I was reading to say, “Listen, it was not so.”
“Once, the most important city in the world was Nanking,” Mrs. Khemlani was saying. “Then it was [REDACTED] and then it was 4974616c79. Later it was [REDACTED] and after that it was [REDACTED] and then [REDACTED] and then [REDACTED] and then [REDACTED]. But, look here, now [REDACTED] is becoming most important, and where will it be after that? My husband says outer space, because he is an engineer and has a very scientific mind, but I say west, and so back to the East!”
Cindy Hacklight, my neighbor across the aisle, asked what this had to do with cowboys or Indians, but Mrs. Khemlani’s response was drowned out for me by the angel’s voice.
“Not so!” she shouted, stamping her foot at the head of the class, standing behind Mrs. Khemlani and growing out of her child’s form. It was the first time I’d ever seen her in the guise of an adult, and she made herself huge. Her head scraped the ceiling and her wings spread from one end of the class to the other. “Not west!” she said, and pictures started to flash in her wings, men whispering in dark rooms, and soldiers at war, and tanks rolling through villages as they did in old newsreels, and people sitting quietly together. She had stopped saying words but her wings were certainly speaking to me, images were blazing out of the white depths and, more than that, feelings were radiating off them, so that I knew sadness and joy and rage and sourceless love together and in succession, the images and feelings a speech through which she communicated to me the true sweep of history. “It’s toward you!” she said, unnecessarily, because she had already made me see myself as riding an enormous tide. Sitting at my desk, I could feel the relentless pressure of history under my feet, pushing me up through some mysterious medium toward a goal I could not describe except by its brightness, but I could see it in that moment very clearly. I leaped up from my desk, dropping my little torture shoe, and threw my hands above my head and gave my best up-with-people “Hooray!” I was eleven years old and thought I understood what the angel had in store for me, and felt sufficient to it in a way I can’t comprehend now.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Khemlani, who thought I was applauding her theory. “Hooray! Hooray for history!”
Better to be a garbageman than a doctor when your father gets sick. If I were a tree surgeon or a schoolteacher or a truffle-snuffler, or even a plain old junkie, then sickness would just be sickness, something to be borne and not something I was supposed to be able to defeat. For months, my sisters had wheedled me into meddling telephone consultations with my father’s doctors, and I had pretended to understand what they were saying, and offered ungrounded opinions to them and to my sisters and my father. Even if I hadn’t cheated my way through medical school, the task of recalling whatever I’d learned of pathology in my second year would have been beyond me. I make my living praising the beauty of well children. I love babies and I love ketamine, and that’s really why I became a pediatrician, not because I hate illness or wanted to make anybody better, or believed that I could.

But nobody deducts the credit I deserve for being impaired and a fake. The doctors hear that you are a doctor and they enlist you in their hopeless task, forking over the greater portion of the guilt that is packaged with that hopeless task. The nurses hear that you are a doctor and immediately hate you for judging their work.
As it became more and more obvious day by day that my father was going to die, the angel, who has catalogued my every failing and should have known better, berated me for failing to save his life. It was the least I could do, she told me, because even this miracle is nothing compared with what I was supposed to grow up to achieve. And if I could do this then everything else would turn around. It was the first hope, besides death, she’d offered in a long time.
“He is not an enemy you can outwit,” Mrs. Scott, one of my father’s Tuesday chemotherapy buddies, said. He had got out of the hospital a week after I arrived home, and for another month I brought him back every week for his infusions. He would fall asleep during the infusion, and leave me alone to talk to her. He had told me that he hated the way she whored after hope—every week something else was going to save her life—and I’d have thought he was faking it just to escape her if I hadn’t known firsthand the beautiful thick sleep that I.V. Benadryl can bring. Every session, she began by telling him about her latest discovery in the pages of Prevention or Ayurvedic Weekly or High Colonic Fancy, and five minutes into it he’d tell her that he felt oblivion pressing on his face, and five minutes after that his chin was on his chest and he was snoring more softly than he does in natural slumber. And, because I could not shut her up, I always suggested a game of checkers or cards or backgammon. Dr. Klar’s infusion salon was packed with those sorts of diversions.
Most often, we played chess, a game that usually generated a lot of thoughtful silence—she’d put a finger to her temple and stare so hard at the board that I expected it to start vibrating in sympathy—but today she was distracted and a little agitated, maybe because she was getting steroids, or maybe because my angel was sitting so close to her, and despite her optimism she was getting sicker from week to week, and I swear that as they get closer to death people can start to feel the angel’s ugly emanations.
“It’s not a game of chess, you know,” she continued, when I said nothing. “I think I just fully understood that right now.”
“What’s that?”
“You know,” she said, putting her hand on her chest. Like my father, she had lung cancer. “Oncoloqatsi,” she whispered. That was the name she had assigned to her disease, and she always whispered it, as if to speak his name too loud would be to summon strength to him.
“Oh, him,” I said.
“I know it suggests a game, how you move and then he moves—you pick a chemo and he counters with a mutation, or you find the perfect herb to overcome him and he produces another measure of resistance, and the doctors play the game from organ to organ until your whole body is a board. They even doodle you up like one.” She pulled down the neck of her blouse to show a piece of skin below her collarbone—it was just a cross to mark a target for radiation. “But this is only the surface. Look deeper, like I have, and you will see the truth.”
“I think I’ve got you,” I said, moving my bishop illegally. She didn’t even look down.
“How often have I heard that from him? But he never has got me, and it’s not because of my disciplined mind. It’s because I have learned to resist him in the very marrow of my being. The very marrow, Doctor. It’s not a lesson you would have learned in school, but I want you to learn it. I want your father to learn it. I have disciplined my soul against this enemy, and he must do it, too.”
The angel sidled closer while Mrs. Scott was talking. She leaned over and took a sniff of the lady’s turbaned head. “Three weeks,” she said. And then she put her nose close to the shining skin of my father’s forehead—every day his skin seemed to get a little thinner or stretch a little tighter, until I was sure that just the faintest rubbing pressure would reveal the dull white bone underneath—and said the same thing.
“Shut up!” I told her.
“It’s hard to hear,” Mrs. Scott said. “I know it’s not your common wisdom, but you don’t have to be rude.” Dr. Klar came in before I could answer or apologize.
“Hallo, everybody!” she called out. Thirty years in southeast [REDACTED] had not dulled her accent much. This appealed to my father, who liked the fact that she was German, order and discipline having always added up to success in his life. Just being in sight of her immaculate white coat I felt accused of slovenliness and failure. “Here is the grandma of your better nature,” the angel said the first time she saw her.
My father woke at the sound of her voice and smiled at her. “[REDACTED]?” he said. Soon after I took him home from the hospital, he started mistaking people and places, thinking that a nurse or some solicitous church lady was one of my sisters, or thinking that he was in his childhood home, in [REDACTED], calling out for a dog who had died sixty years ago. Me he never mistook for anyone else, though he often seemed surprised to see me. “Still here?” he said some mornings.
“It’s Dr. Klar!” she said brightly. She said everything brightly, even things like “What’s the use?” or “If he’s alive in a month it will be a miracle.” She was one of those oncologists who speak life out of one side of their mouth and death out of the other. For my father she had only good news, for me only bad.
“Darling,” my father said, closing his eyes again and still smiling. “When is the baby coming?”
“Soon,” she said. “The baby is fine. Everything is fine!” She reached out to pat his shoulder, but I caught her hand.
“The bad shoulder,” I said. He had metastases all over his body, but his shoulder and his back bothered him the most. He nodded his head and fell back asleep.

 
“How is the pain, then?”
“Worse. And we’re out of Percocet. He’s out of Percocet.”
“Easy enough to fix,” she said.
“An ounce of meditation is worth a pound of Percocet,” Mrs. Scott said.
“In certain traditions!” Dr. Klar said brightly, then she beckoned me out into the hall. “I think it’s time to stop,” she said.
“Stop what?”
“Stop hiding!” the angel shouted.
“Stop the chemo,” Dr. Klar said. We had this conversation every week. “What are we doing? What good is coming of it? Why are you coming here every week, when he could be at home?”

“He doesn’t want to stop. He wants to keep going.”
“Just put out your hand to him and he will be healed,” the angel said. “Just put out your hand to him and you will undo all the pain you’ve caused me.”
“Does he know what he wants?” Dr. Klar asked.
“He’s always confused here. You keep it too cold. And the Benadryl before the infusion makes him sleepy.”
“Carl,” she said, putting her hand on my shoulder the same way she did with him, comfort for someone who is already dead. “It really is getting to be time.”
And the angel said, “It has always been time!”
Things started to go wrong between the angel and me after Cindy Hacklight showed me her pooty in seventh grade. Cindy had made a sort of cottage industry of showing her pooty to anyone—girl or boy—who would give her five dollars, a large sum back then, before high-school inflation. You got the sense that she didn’t really care about the money but understood that what she had wasn’t something to show for free.
“Go not that way,” the angel said. She saved onerous fancy-speak like that for her most serious moments, for things she really meant, for things that really mattered. But I went with Cindy into the woods behind the gym, where she leaned against a narrow poplar and swore me not to secrecy but to respect for what she was about to show me. It was the one promise I’ve managed to keep all my life—I maintained my reverence for her bald little pooty then, in seventh grade, and ever after, even when I met it again one summer when we were both home from college. “Turn your face!” the angel shouted as Cindy lifted her skirt. And the angel was ugly for the first time, having put on the apricot face of our headmistress, Ms. Carnegie. I looked back and forth between them, startled by the contrast, how beautiful was the one and how ugly the other, until Cindy, holding her skirt up with one hand, put the other on my head and turned my face to her. “If you’re going to respect it, you’ve got to look at it,” she said.
The angel berated me for days afterward—how mild it seems in retrospect, compared with what she dished out in later years. “How is a seducing pooty like a grand destiny?” she kept asking me, and then she’d answer her own question, and eventually she trained me to give the right answer. “Exactly not at all,” I said. Yet awakening lust wasn’t the problem, though eventually the lust that had awakened made me a monster and a fiend, and I would waste, and still waste, half my life in thrall to it, screwing whoever would hold still for me in high school and forever beyond, to the exclusion of work and food and sleep, though never drugs. I think it was the first time that something so ordinary had been as attractive to me as the extraordinary things the angel said I must dedicate myself to. When I lay with Cindy on the scented ground in my father’s orange groves, what I experienced was a very ordinary comfort, and when she raised her skirt in the woods I understood that I could want—so badly—something the angel thought I shouldn’t.
My father had a little bell that he rang when he wanted something. Mornings, I would hear it and rise from the single bed I’d slept in when I was a boy, and go downstairs to see what he wanted. At first, after he came home, it was to be helped out into the yard to sit in the sun, and then it was coffee or breakfast when he could not get those for himself, and then it was just to be turned or to retrieve a blanket that had migrated past his hips, and then finally he would just ring it and ring it as constantly as a beggar [REDACTED], not knowing what he wanted, in which case I gave him a pain pill (and took one myself, always supremely faithful to my rigorous policy of one for you and one for me), and that would settle him.
Janie Finn was our hospice nurse. I always hated hospice and hospice people, nurses with smart heels and smother pillows, and the women in charge of the palliative-care programs, who seemed universally to be dark-eyed and dark-haired and very tall. They dressed like nineteenth-century Jesuits and cherished their crushes on death. But Janie brought me liquid morphine and Ativan—and either of those would be enough to make me forgive anybody a mere crime of being. “Your jab and your hook,” she said in the kitchen the day she met us. She had placed the bottles in my hand. I hadn’t even had any yet and already I could feel a lovely warmth coming out of them; they seemed to catch the afternoon light in a very special way. Janie set her feet and threw out two quick punches. “A one-two against the pain,” she said. “One-two! Give it a try.” With a bottle in each hand, I gave it a try, and, yes, my fists seemed to have a certain heft to them. I threw a punch at the angel and she actually ducked.
I made a lot of trips back and forth to the pharmacy, and imagined the little man in the back filling the bottles from two big coolers of bright, pure drug, and dreamed of following him back there to put my mouth to the spigots, because I was sure that if I could just ingest enough then the angel would be permanently transformed—and if it happened also to be enough to kill me, so be it. I was sure that she would take me someplace bearable. How she hated those little bottles.
“Just put out your hand,” the angel kept telling me. “Touch him and make him well.” Though she had hardly screeched at me in those last few days, it seemed like an even worse torture to have her demand the impossible of me so consistently, and to blame me for the fact that my father was getting sicker every day. It made me feel worse than anything she’d ever said to me. I could not ignore a homeless person on the street without her detailing the ways in which I was responsible for his misery, all those missing policies and initiatives, as if the hundred thousand sins of omission that were my unfulfilled destiny added up to national as well as individual catastrophe. It was easier to bear when she blamed me for the woes of strangers, even when those strangers fell out of the sky or burned in their churches. I could make little children faceless, but my father could never be anonymous to me, and as the weeks went by in [REDACTED] I believed her more than ever when she told me that every wrong thing I’d done could be redeemed in a single miracle, and that if I could make my father well with one hand then with the other I could do the same for the whole world.

“Make me dinner,” my father said, so I did. It was only three in the afternoon, but no matter what time of day it was, the meal was always dinner, and dinner was always the same thing: a chocolate milkshake with a banana and a raw egg and a little Ativan in it. When I brought it to him, he took a sip and he was done. He turned his head and opened his mouth like a baby bird—this was the signal for pain medication, so I took the morphine out of my pocket and squeezed in a few drops. He smacked his lips and turned back to the television, then closed his eyes. “Now I’ll take a nap,” he said. “Go to your room.”
I went outside instead. It was another brilliant blue afternoon. He kept saying he wanted a storm. We mostly watched television when he could stand to have me in the living room with him, and we always watched the weather. It was hurricane season, but all we’d had was near-misses. “Look at that!” he’d say, pointing at a gigantic storm swirling across the Atlantic, or he would shout “Fool!” at the hapless reporters clinging to light poles and declaiming the magnificently obvious. Hurricanes had been the enemy when I was a child—they tore up our trees and scattered the fruit. But now he spoke the names of the female hurricanes with great fondness.
Our nearest neighbor was a mile away, so nobody asked what I was doing when I hung the hurricane shutters on the living-room and kitchen windows, and my father asked no questions from inside. He slept so heavily now that a few times I thought he had already died. I nozzled up the hose and propped it so that it would spray on the shutters, and at dusk I turned it on. The angel was half ugly and half kind, because I was half stoned. “You play tricks on him when you should be calling him out of his bed.”
“It’s not a trick,” I said. I spent another few moments watching the sky and taking just the smallest nip of morphine and then went in. When I came into the living room with a candle, he asked what was going on. “A big storm,” I said.
“Finally!” he said.
We had a party during the storm, two more dinners and Ativan and morphine all around, and he was more alert for a while, telling me stories of hurricanes past, of ruined crops and toddlers surviving miraculously when a tornado stole them from their homes and deposited them in the next county.
“I know you have secrets,” he said suddenly. And then he said, “Your sister tried to drown you when you were two—do you remember?”
“No,” I said, and asked him to tell me more. But then he thought I was my sister Carmen.
“How could you hurt a little baby like that?” he asked, and I said I’d done a lot of bad things.
“Tell me about it!” the angel said. I took another drop of morphine, right in front of my father, because his eyes were closed, but then as if he could smell it he opened his mouth, so I gave him some, too. And then I took some more, and gave him some more, and then switched to the Ativan. But still the angel was a harpy. “Put out your hand!” she said. “Another angel is coming!”
“It’s all right,” my father said. And then he whispered, “Your mother tried to smother him once. Just a little, with a blanket, and she told me about it right away. But she was depressed, and that’s what you do when you’re depressed.”
“If you were a great man,” the angel said, slurring now, “if you were President—and you could have been President—then I would be a national conscience!”
“Shut up,” I said quietly to her, thinking that I had pitched my voice so that she’d hear it and he would not.
“Don’t tell me to shut up, sassy girl!” he said, and I gave him some more morphine. Though he hadn’t asked for it, he sucked at the dropper when I put it in his mouth.
“You can do it,” she said, her face flashing beautiful for a moment. And she showed me how, putting out a hand that was soft and white on one side and hairy and rough on the other. She held it over his chest. “All you have to do is finally stop fucking up.”
“You’re ruining it,” I told her, and took a swig of the Ativan, just a nip, really, but you are supposed to take it drop by drop and I knew why as soon as I took the swig. It was too good, and it made everything too beautiful, not just the angel, whose ugly skin flew off as if blown by a real hurricane, so that her wings were clean again and her naked face and body were open and compassionate. Even my father’s face became beautiful, still yellow and sunken but now utterly lovely, and how strange to see a beautiful face that looked so much like my own. The room shone with something that was not light, and there really was a thrilling storm blowing outside and shaking the walls. Every so often, he would reach blindly for something not there in front of him, and he did this now, so I reached with him, and the angel reached, too, all three of us reaching out our hands together.
“You have to be ready at any time to have the conversation,” Janie Finn had told me, meaning the conversation where you sorted everything out and said your goodbyes, and the dying person sorted everything out and lost all his regrets. “You talk about things and then you let go,” she said, making an expansive gesture with her hands, as if she were setting free a bunch of doves or balloons. It was just the sort of thing hospice people always say.
Suddenly I thought that this must be the conversation, as we opened our mouths in turn and shared something important and lovely, and the whole room seemed like a great relief to me and I knew it must to him, too. The angel was struggling, though, seeming to wrestle with herself. Her face was beautiful but her body was ugly again, and my bottles were almost empty. My father’s mouth was open, yet I took the last of the morphine myself and gave him a drop of water. He opened his eyes and looked at me and said it again—“You!”—and he shook his head, then closed his eyes again. But when I put my head on his chest he didn’t push it away, and though one hand was reaching out blindly above him, he let me put the other on my neck. “I want a better angel, Dad,” I told him. “That’s all I need.”
“I’ll take a nap now,” he said. “Batten down the hatches and go to your room.” But I stayed where I was and took a nap myself. I woke up the next morning on the couch, the fake rain still drumming at the shuttered window, with no recollection of how I had got across the room. The angel was in the corner, her face ugly, but only in that way that all weeping faces are ugly. I sat down next to my father, who must have died very recently, because though his face was cold and his open eyes already had the look of spoiling grapes, his chest and his belly were warm. I put my hands on his chest, and my head on my hands, and stayed that way for a long time before I called Janie to tell her that it had happened. 

