THE TRENCH
By Erri De Luca

When I found the sewage pipe I was happy, but I couldn’t smile. Too many days of danger had hardened my nerves. With the pick, I made a hole in the top part of the drain, and inhaled the stink like the perfume of victory. I hadn’t gone crazy; on the contrary, I’d been saved.
We had begun digging many days before. The excavation had started at the house, crossed a garden, and reached the street, blocking half of it. Down below that street, at what depth we didn’t know, we had been told we would find the main sewage pipe. At first, there were a lot of us; then, when the hole went deeper than a man standing, only two of us remained. The trench was three feet wide, the minimum width you needed to turn around in, and at the point where I reached the sewage pipe its floor was twenty feet below the ground. We had to run a conduit from the house to the pipe.
The two of us dug in that narrow trench for several days, each day darker than the one before. We put the dirt in containers that were hoisted up from above with a pulley. We entered at dawn; we came out for the midday break, then again at five. Even those who don’t do this kind of work know that a trench like that should be reinforced on both sides, with vertical beams wedged in by perpendicular struts. Otherwise, there’s the risk of collapse. But our boss didn’t want to bother with all that. So the two of us dug, face to face, knowing that we were caught in one hell of a trap. Who were we and why had we accepted this risk?
One of us was an Algerian, forty years old, a sober man of few words. He was the last to be hired at the building site, and he knew that he couldn’t refuse the task: he’d be fired. That he needed the work goes without saying; he had just arrived in [REDACTED], he spoke little French, this was his first job in [REDACTED]. The other man was me, a thirty-two-year-old Italian laborer, hired a few months earlier and not much liked by the French boss. I was one of the first to arrive in the morning, but I was one of the first to leave at night, too. No whistle blew; the workers had to watch the clock for themselves, and this meant that they never stopped exactly on time—they were all afraid of appearing insufficiently attached to their jobs. So they ended up putting in unpaid hours for an employer who was expert at tricks of this sort. I left exactly at five—plus, I wouldn’t do overtime on non-work days. This must have hampered the boss’s flexibility. I was not flexible; in fact, I was rigid, hardened in my muscles and in my sleep. So the roughest, dirtiest jobs were deliberately assigned to me. I was the only white-skinned worker who would do them.
At midday, between mouthfuls of highly spiced watery soup, we talked for a while in our rudimentary common French, then each returned to his own thoughts in his mother tongue. The other workers called me “4974616c79,” but I didn’t feel that I belonged to a particular nation. I didn’t support the colors of a jersey or a specific shade of skin, not even my own. I accepted the nickname. “4974616c79” worked hard and didn’t try to take anyone else’s place, because no one wanted his place. I needed the job. I had found it with difficulty after weeks of pounding pavements on the outskirts of [REDACTED]. I had got it, and I wanted to hold on to it, and no damn boss was going to stop me. If he wanted an excuse to get rid of me I wasn’t going to give him one—I would descend to the depths of hell, but I wouldn’t retreat.
That was why, for those few days, two men who didn’t know each other and couldn’t even have addressed each other by name stood face to face in a trench, risking their lives in search of a sewage pipe. With every foot we advanced, the sky narrowed; soon it was just a strip the size of the hole we were standing in. With every foot we advanced, we were waiting for that trench to collapse on us, burying us alive.
The other workers no longer greeted us in the morning; they went off silently to their jobs. At midday, someone would usually offer us something to drink. I always refused; a mute anger had grown in me, a fury under the skin that allowed me to endure the hours down in the hole. How long did this last? Not that long—a dozen days. At the end of the first week the man who was with me started to crack. In the darkness, illuminated by our lamp—it was dark down there even at midday—his round black eyes stared, his face dripped sweat; he muttered his automatic invocation, which I can still hear if I block my ears. “Trouvé? Tu l’as trouvé?”: the hoarse voice of a lost man, the common exhalation of the trenches of that century. “No, I haven’t found it yet, but it must be close. Ask for someone else to take over from you, friend. The boss isn’t mad at you—you’ve done your part.” I told him this, and then he was silent; he said no more. He had asked the other Algerian workers already, but no one was willing to go down there. So I assured him that if the trench was going to collapse it would do so only at night, when the damp came. I invented rational explanations, and he sort of believed me; I was educated.
The truth was, the trench wouldn’t collapse; he hadn’t crossed the sea only to end up buried with a man from Naples—we would die on the ocean, in the mountains, but not here. This I didn’t say to him: one shouldn’t speak of death with one’s feet in a grave. I was trying to calm his fear, but I did it for myself as well, because I needed him—with two of us, the job would be done sooner. If he broke down, if he got himself fired, I would have to finish digging by myself, it would take me longer, and the risk would be greater. But why should a man have to suffer this way? Why in the world should a human being have to earn bread for his children with a noose around his neck? For me it was a question of pride, but for him it was only bread, and still he had to soak it in that salty water of ours, which tasted so much like tears.

Then I decided that he was no help to me—I would manage better on my own. So during the lunch break one day I went to the boss, who looked at me combatively, ready to tell me that this was the job, and, if I didn’t want to do it, here was the door. I had already heard him say as much to others. In front of the other workers, I told him that you couldn’t turn around in the trench anymore, that it was impossible for two men to continue to work down there, and that by now we had to be close to the sewer. I asked him to let me finish the job alone. He looked down at his plate and nodded his head.
So after the lunch break I went alone into the trench. For the first time in days I felt calm; without the other man there I was relieved. Now I wasn’t just using the pick, I had to shovel, too. It might take longer but at least I wouldn’t have those eyes on me, I wouldn’t have to hear that whisper (“Trouvé? Tu l’as trouvé?”), or see all that human matter dripping with sweat and shame and, against its will, begging a stranger for salvation. This I understand now, as I recall those days for the first time. Back then it occurred to me only that I didn’t need him, that I didn’t need anyone to help me find that damn sewer. Without his pain, I felt lighter. But I still couldn’t find the drain.
Days passed this way; the sky on August mornings in [REDACTED] was brilliant. From the bottom of the trench it looked like a canal. I didn’t sweat much; it was cool down there. Every so often someone would lean over the edge of the hole and ask, “Everything O.K.?” I invariably answered, “It’s a vacation.” If a truck passed on the street, dirt fell from the walls of the trench. It was as if the trench were perspiring, stretching its muscles so as not to collapse: it sweated earth. It’s on my side, I thought. At times, even a difficult job isn’t enough to keep your brain quiet, and a person alone in a ditch for eight hours a day has a lot of time to make up tall tales and stories for himself. It seemed to me—I admit it—as if the hole had a body and a will; for example, it had the affectionate desire not to end up on top of me.
On one of those days somebody, as a joke, tossed into the hole a primitive cross, two pieces of wood tied together at right angles with a rope. It landed near my pick. I felt an impulse to rush to the surface and pursue whoever wanted to play undertaker with me. A dead man rising, with the cross in his hands, to chase his own funeral procession: then I smiled.
When finally I sank the pick into the earth and the iron rebounded from the top of the sewage pipe with a thunderclap, I was happy. But by that time I couldn’t smile: nerves had bound the muscles of my face as tight as string around a roast in the oven. I wanted to shout, but no sound came out. With the shovel I cleared the area and with a blow of the pick I pierced the vault on which, at last, my feet were standing. Has anyone ever been happy to smell shit? I was, and I swelled with fierce pride, thus mixing with that natural odor the unnatural stench of all the garbage I had carried inside me for those two weeks. Shit on shit: it must have been a tie between me and that sewer, in the contest to see which of us held more. I don’t want to speak ill of myself. When one is in a tight spot in life, one uses whatever one can to get out, without questioning where it comes from. My proud thoughts had served to keep me down in that trench without asking for relief. They had rendered me a service, but at the same time they were shit thoughts. I was happy to have won the fight with that brute of a boss who wouldn’t have paid a penny for the death of a workman buried in a collapsed ditch.
I came out early that day, and everyone asked me anxiously if I had found the pipe, afraid that I had finally decided to give up. I answered by bringing two fingers to my nose as if to hold it closed. Is the vacation over? they asked. They were happy that I had succeeded. They all knew that they had tolerated the possibility that one of their own would die without their doing anything to prevent it. But the only way they could have done something for me was either by risking their own precarious jobs or by taking my place: one cannot ask a man to leave the rank and file and raise his voice or his cross. Still, a man who appreciates in another a gesture that he has had to repress can later become his friend. That day, all the workers left together exactly at five. At five o’clock, there was no one left at the site. I smile in sympathy now; then I hardly noticed.
It took a week to make the hookup. The specialized workers demanded that the entire trench be reinforced according to regulations. The boss was beside himself because of the time it would cost him. He pointed at me to show that there was no danger, and even dared, he was so furious, to ask me in their presence if any earth had fallen from the walls while I was down there, hoping for my complicity. “Like hail” was my response.
Perhaps in all our lives there comes a day when we are happy to smell shit. I know that I’ve behaved badly in my life, that I’ve risked my life out of pride and anger, and whatever else may lie in a man’s heart. Although my presence has since been requested at the table of many languages, and numerous people have invited me to sit beside them, I wish for no one else to have to do as I did, hacking at my own grave with a pick, in the hope that it was not yet ready for me. 

