THE BONE GAME
By Charles D'Ambrosio


They’d only taken a simple wrong turn somewhere—taken a wrong exit off the freeway, then got caught downtown in the maze of [REDACTED]’s one-way streets—but to D’Angelo it was as if they’d travelled back in time to the nineteenth century. He looked out the Cadillac’s tinted window and saw, through a haze of watery green, a few Chinese men in loose slacks, old coolie stock, it seemed to him, struggling up the steep hill, stooped over as if shouldering the weight of a maul. “Look at those Chinks,” he said. “I bet they laid some track in their day.” Kype finally found the street he wanted and steered the car north through Pioneer Square. An Indian sat on the curb with his head in his hands, tying back two slick wings of crow-black hair with a faded blue bandanna. A pair of broken-heeled cowboy boots lay in the gutter while he aired his bare feet. D’Angelo rolled down his window, waved a gun in the air, took a bead, and dry-fired. The hammer struck three times against empty chambers, but in his mind D’Angelo had dropped the Indian, right there on the sidewalk. He raised the barrel to his lips and blew away an imaginary wisp of smoke.
“What if that had been loaded?” Kype said.
D’Angelo grinned, and fired the gun at Kype’s face. “It isn’t, is it?”
“Jesus,” Kype said, grabbing the gun. He tossed it in the back seat. “Cut the cowboy crap.”
D’Angelo just smiled and watched a couple of Filipina hookers shuffle under the awning of an expedition outfitter and guide service. Behind them, in the display window, a stuffed grizzly bear reared up on its hind legs. Kype palmed the steering wheel into another sharp turn, the Caddy’s tires squealing rubber on the warm asphalt. A container of ashes rocked in the seat next to him. D’Angelo picked up the decorative urn and unscrewed the lid. Caught in a gust of wind, a cloud of gray ash eddied through the car. Kype coughed and fanned the air as some of the powdery remains of his grandfather drifted under his nose and blew into the street. He ran his tongue over his lips, tasting ash.
“Damn man,” Kype said, spitting.
“Ashes to ashes.” D’Angelo screwed down the lid and gave the urn a shake. Something inside rattled. “Bones,” he said. “Teeth.”
Kype snatched the urn from D’Angelo and set it in the back seat with the gun. He wiped the sweat from his forehead. It was hot, and he hadn’t bathed in more than a week.
“How old was he?” D’Angelo asked.
“Ninety-nine,” Kype said.
“I hope I don’t live that long.”
“Grandpa lived a good life.”
“Some of those old boys just spend the golden years fouling their drawers.”
“Grandpa maintained his dignity,” Kype said.
“I can’t get into old people,” D’Angelo said.
He took a quick pull of bourbon and eased back in his seat. D’Angelo was wearing a red 43616e616461ern shirt with pearlish plastic snaps and a turquoise bolo tie, an outfit he’d bought in a tack shop in Tonasket, near the Canadian border. He’d hoped the shirt and tie would give him a 43616e616461ern look, but he was chubby and short and he still wore the baggy pin-striped slacks and red high-top sneakers he’d left [REDACTED] in, six months earlier. To Kype he looked like one of those midget clowns that rode [REDACTED] ponies at rodeo intermissions. The two men had met a couple of days before, when Kype picked up D’Angelo, who’d been thumbing for a ride at a truck stop east of the mountains.
“He almost lived a century,” Kype said, thinking of his grandfather. “[REDACTED] wasn’t even a state when he was born.”
“You live that long,” D’Angelo said, “there just aren’t many people left to bury you. That’s why you’re out here, driving around like the Buddha, looking for the spot.”
Kype let the conversation die and navigated the old car along the waterfront. The Eldorado had belonged to his grandfather, a tall, lean, white-haired patriarch who had remained vigorous—still splitting and stacking his own cordwood, still waking at dawn to fish for kings and silvers off Camano Head—until one evening two weeks earlier when he’d said, “I’m awfully goddam tired,” and then sat down on the davenport, shut his eyes, and died. Later that night, sharply missing the old man, Kype had looked through his grandfather’s address book and seen something that resembled the score sheet of a high 200 bowler—all spares and strikes, thick black diagonal slashes and X’s drawn through name after name, as one by one his friends had passed away.
The Eldorado was the last car let on the ferry. Kype and D’Angelo got out and stood up front, gripping the gate chains, the stiff wind whipping their faces.
“Maybe it’s this way,” Kype said. He gestured expansively, sweeping his hand west, the sky a wash of leached red as the sun began to set.
D’Angelo drew a dented Marine Band harmonica from his shirt pocket and tried desperately to turn “Home on the Range” into an upbeat blues number. It was the only song he knew, and it sounded awful. He played it incessantly, but Kype, in the two days he’d known D’Angelo, hadn’t heard much improvement.
When the ferry’s horn blasted, Kype tossed a penny into the sound, something he’d done for luck on every crossing since he was a kid.
D’Angelo said, “He couldn’t have been much of a dad to you.”
“You don’t know,” Kype said.
“You guys never played catch, I know that.”
“Yes we did,” Kype said.
“You got a fem throw,” D’Angelo said. “You got sissy muscles. Nobody ever showed you, I can tell.”
Kype futzed with the zipper of his thin yellow windbreaker, and said, “Throwing isn’t everything.”
“We’ll find the spot.”
The “spot” was the right place to cast loose the old man’s ashes. Kype didn’t know where it was exactly, not on any map at least, but he knew he’d recapture a certain feeling when he got there. He’d been travelling back and forth across the state for a week, retracing his grandfather’s steps, visiting his birthplace, his old haunts, looking for that feeling. Now he was headed for the ocean.
The memorial service—a garish cross between the stilted air of a museum fund-raiser and the drunken sloppiness of a send-off—had seemed ludicrous to Kype, with everyone from old family friends to business cronies to reporters there to speculate about the life and times of Henry Kype Green. His grandfather’s wealth came from sources deep in the history and raw materials of the region—trees and fish, mostly—and the old man had been something of a legend, a legend the local newspapers had been rehashing with abandon. The last of the pioneers, the papers had called him. True enough, during the Volstead days he’d run booze down Haro Strait, he’d been big in timber, in the fisheries, he’d served a stint or two in the state legislature. Of his generation, he was certainly the last.
Kype had sat beside his drunken mother in the front pew as the Reverend mounted the pulpit and announced that for a man as great as Henry Kype Green death was a simple passage, a great reward for service rendered: old Kype, having done so much to improve the earthly garden, had long ago earned a providential seat in [REDACTED]. It seemed to Kype a measure of his grandfather’s eminence in the community that the key passages for the sermon and eulogy were taken from the Book of Revelation—the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the ending, the four and twenty of this, the seven of that, the angels, the trumpets!—but then, too, the service had been noisy with senile rumblings, old men and women muttering to themselves, calling out like dreamers, and the whole affair had been a little dotty and obscure and ultimately incomprehensible.

Following the service there was a lavish spread: crustless Walla Walla sweet-onion sandwiches, poached sockeye salmon, Dungeness crab, Willapa Bay oysters shucked and bedded in a glacier of shaved ice, mountains of Red Delicious apples, all gifts from friends, delivered—half in homage, half in throwback to Roman taxation—from the various corners of the state. Kype gave several interviews, but he had the uneasy feeling that his words were being reshaped and slotted into a story that had already been written. “My grandfather started out,” he told a reporter from the [REDACTED] Times, “as a whistle punk in a donkey show.” The woman asking him questions brightened at the prospect of an unseemly revelation about old Kype’s obscure origins but grew disappointed, then bored, when she learned that whistle punks and donkey shows had nothing to do with sex. Others were interested in Kype himself, the grandson rumored to be the primary beneficiary named in the will. Kype had never known his father, who’d drowned in a boating accident—waterskiing drunk, he’d neglected to let go of the rope and had smashed into a dock—shortly before Kype was born. Kype had been raised in his grandfather’s house in the Highlands. With the reading of the will, he’d be filthy rich. This made people want to gawk at him, to see the mechanics of money, or wealth, grinding away inside.
Kype had slipped out of the hall and walked next door to the church, where his grandfather’s urn rested on a bench beside the altar. He tucked it under his arm like a football and quickly made his way out of the church, down the steps, to the corner where the old man’s car was parked. His mother had planned to set the urn on a marble shelf in the family mausoleum, but Kype had other ideas, or thought he did, as he turned the key and started up the ancient Eldorado.
Kype and D’Angelo drove through the night. The big car’s headlights bored a tunnel through the dense overhang of cedar and blue spruce, a tunnel that opened briefly before them in a shaft of white light and closed immediately behind them in a darkness tinged red by the tail-lights. It was the dry season near the end of August, and there hadn’t been any rain in weeks. In a few of the gypo outfits—makeshift mills set back from the road—they could see wheels of blue sparks spin from the saws and smell fresh cut wood as the blades bit pulp. Every now and then they passed a crop of white crosses that marked the location of a deadly wreck. The Eldorado sailed along, its generous suspension floating so loosely over the bends and curves that Kype managed to give himself a touch of seasickness.
At a fork in the road, a young woman appeared, holding her thumb out. She was wearing tight white shorts, ankle-strap sandals, and a man’s shirt with the tails knotted together high on her waist. She was leaning against a huge rock, an erratic scrawled with Day-Glo declarations of love.
“Slow down, slow down,” D’Angelo said.
Kype eased the car onto the shoulder. The woman picked up a woven basket and hopped into the back seat. She didn’t even ask where they were going. She seemed to know.
“Well,” D’Angelo said, “I guess you’re game for going wherever the hell we go, huh? Want a drink?”
“Sure,” she said. She slugged from the bottle, then wiped her lips. A rhinestone clip in the shape of a horse sparkled in her hair. “If you’re on this road, there’s only one place to go. You got no choice. Nothing but reservation up ahead.” She took another drink before passing the bottle back to D’Angelo. “And the ocean,” she said. “There’s a big ocean at the end of this road.”
“You from around here?” Kype asked. He tried to catch a glimpse of her in the rearview mirror, but she had sprawled in the big back seat, out of sight.
“Yep,” she said. “Name’s Nell, Nella Ides.”
“Well, Nella Ides,” D’Angelo said, “this guy’s grandpa died. He was very fucking old, a real big shot. You may have heard of him. Kype, his name was Kype. Just like this guy. Anyway, me and my friend Kype here, we’re drinking the old man’s bourbon, and we got his old gun, and we’re going to catch the biggest, wildest fish in the ocean with his old fishing pole.”
“Putting the fun back in funeral,” Nell said.
“That’s right,” D’Angelo said. “And since you’re from around here, and you know the lie of the land, you’re invited.”
“Suits me fine,” Nell said. “I got a cousin might be interested, too. For your friend there.”
“My grandfather knew Mungo Martin,” Kype said, looking in the rearview mirror.
“Who’s Mungo Martin?” Nell asked.
“Mungo Martin? Mungo Martin was a tyee, a chief—Satsop or Haida, Bella Coola, maybe Makah.”
“He wasn’t no Makah,” Nell said.
“Some chief, anyway. I don’t really know. Supposedly a great artist or something. He carved totem poles, if that’s art. Grandfather met him negotiating a timber contract after the war.”
“See what I was saying,” D’Angelo said. “This guy’s granddad, old Kype, he was a high-ass muckamuck. A very big deal who knew Mungo, another very big deal. It was a high old time in town when old Kype and old Mungo got together.”
“I’d know if he was a Makah. That I’d know.”
“How old are you, Nella Ides?”
“Old,” she said.
Nell’s skin was dark and smelled richly of sweat, smoke, and coconut oil. She had spent most of the day drinking beer in Port Angeles. A man she’d met in P. A. had dropped her off on his way out to Forks. Before that she’d blacked out, and before that she had gone to a pink motel with the man, where a suspicious night clerk had forced her to sign the registry. She’d used her Makah name, the long English translation that took up three spaces in the guest book: What-you-get-you-can’t-store-up-because-it-is-so-much.
D’Angelo climbed into the back seat and sat beside her. “Your eyes are green,” he said, kissing her.
“Get us that bottle back here,” Nell said.
Kype handed the bottle over, feeling jilted, suddenly the chauffeur for his hitching passengers. A convoy of logging trucks boomed by, their wake a vacuum that made the big Cadillac shudder. Kype couldn’t see Nell or D’Angelo, but he listened to the sounds they made, to their voices.
“Don’t look back,” he heard D’Angelo say.
In Neah Bay the road ran out, dissolving into a patch of packed dirt and windblown sand, the Makah Nation. A few white shacks lined either side of the street. One of the houses looked like the site of a massive collision. Smashed vehicles surrounded it. Doors, bumpers, bucket seats, and radiators were piled in the yard. A few intact cars that had probably seen the open road for the last time when Eisenhower was President seemed to be under repair. A beat DeSoto with a broken windshield and sun-hardened tires, its rims sunk in the sand, was parked beneath a shade tree. Above it, a half-stripped engine dangled from a winch, rocking back and forth as the branches swayed in the breeze. An open toolbox and a coffee cup sat on the fender.

“That must be the chief’s house,” D’Angelo said.
When Nell sat up, one of her small breasts showed, the nipple dark brown like a knot in wood. It glistened with saliva. She tied the tails of her shirt together.
“Salmon season closes today, fellas,” she said.
“How about that?” Kype said. “The ocean must be the spot. My grandfather’s spirit guides us.”
“Here’s to Grandpa,” Nell said, taking a long drink from the bottle.
“Here is Grandpa,” D’Angelo said, holding up the urn. He unscrewed the cap, poked his fingers in, and marked a cross on Nell’s forehead. “Ashes to ashes,” he said. “And dust to dust.”
“Please don’t fuck around with that,” Kype said.
Grains of blowing sand needled the sides of the car. Dense forest seemed to slide down from the hills, crowding the village against the sea. At the far end of the dirt plaza, the sign for a bait shop sputtered, its red neon bleeding into the fog.
“I’m going to check on my baby,” Nell said. She pulled back her hair and adjusted the clip. “I’ll be right back.”
“Don’t forget your cousin,” D’Angelo said. He slapped Kype on the back. “For my friend here.”
The first pale cast of light shone inland, a faint silver rim, like a lid ajar, in the world they’d left behind. Slowly the street wakened to life. A few lamps went on, glowing a cold yellow in the salt-whitened windows of the shacks. A young girl walked toward the water, watching the sun rise, and a hesitant old man left a trail of footprints in the dust as he crossed the road. A boy with a net began scooping bait from a blue plastic pool. Kype stood beside him. The boy flicked his wrist and twisted the net through hundreds of small dark fish, then emptied his catch into a clear plastic bag and tied it shut. In Kype’s hand, the bag squirmed with life, beating like a heart, and then slowly stilled to a few last fitful flickers as the herring suffocated.
“Got our bait?” D’Angelo said.
Kype showed him the dead herring.
When he saw Nell, D’Angelo asked, “Where’s your cousin?”
“She’s sick of fish,” Nell said.
Inside the bait shop, a steel coffee pot percolated, bubbling with the first brew of the day. A plume of steam rose from beneath its rattling lid. A few charter operators sat on a bench, waiting for customers.
“We need a boat,” Kype said.
A man named Porter rose stiffly on arthritic knees. He studied Kype’s smooth white skin, his blue eyes, the easy loose movement of his arms and legs as he approached the counter. Kype was wearing his grandfather’s clothes: the thin yellow windbreaker, a pink oxford shirt, khakis with an elastic waistband, a pair of leather boat shoes.
“And I want it exclusive,” Kype said. “There’s three of us.”
“Can’t give it to you exclusive,” Porter said.
Kype unfolded his wallet. “I’ll buy up the other spots.”
Porter looked at the neat square edge of new bills crowding the wallet.
“You’ll pay for twelve?” he asked, although his boat would accommodate only six.
“No problem,” Kype said.
He spread a fan of bills across the counter, paying for the phantom spots, paying for their tackle and bait, their lunches and their fishing licenses, too.
“Slip five,” Porter said. “She’s called Kingdom Come.”
He led them out to the marina. Cabin lights had come on in some of the pleasure craft. A few men huddled on the docks, sipping coffee.
Kype loosened the bowline from a wooden cleat. D’Angelo and Nell kissed under the blue light of an arc lamp.
“That girl your friend’s with,” Porter said, “she’s not right in the head. She’s the rez punch, you know what I mean? You can charter her easy as you can charter me. She’s got a kid, and herself only a kid. They live with the great-grandmother. I hate to see it.”
Porter ran the bilge and checked the radio.
“This old can seaworthy, Captain?” D’Angelo said.
“Was yesterday,” Porter said. He looked at Nell. “You go on home.”
She got in the boat.
Porter ran the throttle full-open, watching from the wheelhouse as Kype and D’Angelo and Nell stood in the bow. When they were three miles out, he idled back and headed south along the coast.
He shouted over the droning engine, “It’s now or never.”
Kype assembled his salmon rod, sliding the ferrules together, and then Porter baited his hook. The herring had been kept on ice and were cold and firm. Porter double-hooked the bait, running one snelled hook through the head and the other through the tail, snugging them together so the herring curled and would then spin and twist beneath the water, turning with a wounded motion. When he was finished, Porter decided to set up a rod for himself in the downrigger.
Nell was lying on the hatch, the long skirt she’d changed into bunched up around her thighs, her brown face turning soft and shapeless as putty in the warm sun. D’Angelo sat in the bow, nervously tightening the straps on a bright-orange life preserver. Kype held his grandfather’s rod as if it were a golden staff and he a sentry assigned guardianship of the sea.
“Reading the will’s going to be something,” Kype said. “You know what my program is, from now on? Exhaustion. That’s it, exhaustion. That’s my ambition. I’m just going to go everywhere and do everything and then get totally sick and tired of it all.”
“That a boy, Kypester,” D’Angelo said. “You’ll be like Ecclesiastes, Jr., all fucking worn out and shit.” D’Angelo slid closer to Nell. “Hey, Nell, Miss Ides, you want to hear about his inheritance?”
“You’re blocking my sun,” she said.
Kype had never fished much—his grandfather liked to go alone—and each tug of the bait and spin of the spoon lure felt like a strike to him. Twice he reeled in, and twice found nothing. He stripped out line in two-foot lengths, measuring as Porter had showed him, until he reached seventy feet. He traced the white thread of monofilament from his rod tip into the sea and then followed it below the surface until the line disappeared in the green water, beyond the reach of light. He felt a strange resignation, not knowing a thing about salmon. Given over to the rise and fall of the boat, he was lulled into a forgetfulness, the heave of the ocean working its way into his bones, softening them. He eased the cork butt of the rod against his navel and shut his eyes and felt the ocean in his stomach, calmly rolling on. He imagined the bait beneath the surface, moving back and forth in slow undulations, like a kite in the sky.
The strike called Kype back to himself. In panic he jerked the rod and started reeling in, watching the line cut wildly across the surface. The pole curled over like a scythe. He reeled as fast as he could, instinctively afraid that the life on the other end of the line would escape him. And it was life, life struggling so mightily that the rod seemed to Kype like a sensitive instrument measuring the fight not only of the salmon but of the entire ocean. He was so beside himself with excitement he made a promise—to God, it seemed—that if he were lucky enough to land this fish he would commemorate the event by spreading his grandfather’s ashes over the water. Life! Kype kept thinking, life! And then, for a moment, the priority of things reversed, and he felt that whatever was fighting on the other end of the line had suddenly engaged in a tug-of-war and was trying to haul him overboard into the sea.

Then the rod snapped straight, and the life in the line was gone.
Kype reeled in quickly, hoping that perhaps the salmon had simply given up the ghost. But it wasn’t so: whatever it was had spat the hook. The herring was stripped to the bone, just a head with eyes trailed by a white comb of cartilage and vertebrae.
He set his rod aside.
Porter had also got a strike. He played it leisurely, allowing the fish to exhaust itself in several long streaking runs, and then brought it up against the boat and scooped it with the landing net. He lifted the net high, the salmon thrashing the air, throwing off a spray of water with each spasm. Porter grabbed a gaff hook and raised the butt end over his shoulder and then hesitated—he looked at Kype and said, “You want it?”
“Yeah, sure,” Kype said. “I lost mine.”
Porter clubbed the silver in the back of the head. He did it once, hard, mercifully. Blood trickled from its eyes, its caudal fin twitched and a shiver uncoiled along the length of its body, and it was done.
Nell’s house was entirely embosked in blackberry. A thorny tangled patch of brambles, a grotesque confusion of growth, twenty feet high, rolled like a rogue wave over the roof. A hole in the vines gave way to a set of gray weathered planks, each board slanted and wobbling, which led to a gated entry. Beyond the gate was a small teak door, cockeyed in its frame, with layers of dry varnish peeling away. Its upper hinge was broken and had been replaced with a strap of leather. Dusty beams of sunlight filtered down through the dome of stickers, and a few bees, humming in the last warmth of the day, moved lazily among the delicate white flowers. Berries hung everywhere, black and ripe, redolent and sweet, weighing the branches down. The house listed to one side, and Kype realized why when he looked up a narrow set of steps and saw the flying bridge. The house was not a house; it was a boat.
An old woman sat in the dark cool galley with a blanket on her lap. Nell touched the woman’s shoulder and continued on toward the bow of the boat, into the forecastle. D’Angelo followed, and soon Kype heard them giggling and wrestling on the bunk. Kype stared at the old woman, whose face flowed smoothly, like rock eroded by waves. Her eyes were a silverish silt-green and sat in their sockets like marquetry. Kype stood with his fish in one hand and the urn of ashes in the other and didn’t know what to say. Light and shadow entwined her face, and around her forehead she wore an odd red crown woven from cedar. She didn’t move or acknowledge him in any manner. The ancient smell of fish rose from a hold that hadn’t seen a salmon in decades. Kype listened to the stupefying murmur of the bees, a drowsy buzz that now resided as an itch in his ear. He stuck his finger in, as deep as it would go, digging and scratching at the irritation, then pulled at the lobe.
We didn’t know what on earth it was when the ship came into the harbor. So the chief, he sent out some warriors in a couple of canoes to see what it was. They were taking a good look at those white people on the deck there.
Kype raised his salmon by the gill and stared into its face as if it had spoken.
One white man had a real hooked nose, you know. And one of the men was saying to this other guy, “See, see. He must have been a dog salmon, that guy there. He’s got a hooked nose.” The other guy was looking at him, and a man came out of the galley and he was a hunchback. And the other one said, “Yes! We’re right, we’re right. Look at that one. He’s a humpback. He’s a humpback salmon.”
Kype shook the urn at his ear but heard only the dicelike rattle of bones and teeth.
So they went ashore and they told the big chief, “You know what we saw? They’ve got white skin. But we’re pretty sure that those people on the floating thing there, they must have been fish. But they’ve come here as people.”
Kype looked at the old woman, whose silver eyes had closed, the leather of her lids lowered like shades. He was still hearing the story, a steady, somewhat distant drone of words, like the sound of an alarm in another room heard from inside a dream. He swallowed hard to clear the pressure in his ears and reached for a lamp stand, trying to steady himself, but swiped empty air as the house yawed and his rubbery legs buckled. He turned and bolted aft, up the steps to deck level, down the crooked gangway, through the cavernous tunnel and out. He ran into the middle of the road and waited in the white dusty light until Nell and D’Angelo emerged from the boat, blinking like tired children.
Nell led them to a corrugated-tin shed, where they found, in a walk-in refrigerator, cases of milk in pint cartons, stacked to the ceiling. D’Angelo hoisted one of the cases onto his shoulder and they marched off along a path spongy with duff and down a steep crooked trail until they came to a tiny inlet. A small stream, not ten feet wide, spilled into an estuarial flat choked with eelgrass and then into the ocean. They forded the stream and came to a campsite. A bleached stick, pitted like old bone, had been jabbed in the sand. Bird feathers, clamshells, and the pinnate fronds of a sword fern, dried brown, were strung together, dangling from the stick and fluttering in the wind. Nell sat down and hitched her skirt up over her knees, gathering the loose folds in her hands.
“You can light a fire there,” she said.
Kype and D’Angelo stared at each other.
“Are you men or what?” Nell asked. “Gather wood up and light a fire or we’re gonna freeze our asses when the sun goes down.”
They stripped moss and bark from the trees and hauled several loads of driftwood and then stopped by the stream for a drink. It was a beautiful little stream, the water pure and clear as crystal, shining with light, but the banks were stacked with dead fish. They were drying in the sand and swarming with flies, their skin baked a golden bronze by the sun, or they were caught up in the weeds along shore, rotting in the shallow water. Their eye sockets were empty and their long ragged teeth were bared as if to scare away scavengers. “I guess I’m not thirsty,” D’Angelo said. “What the fuck’s wrong with these fish?” The living didn’t look any better than the dead. They were thin and mutilated, their flesh ripped and trailing from their bodies like rags. Some of these haunted fish were hardly motile, finning weakly in the shallow stream, while others, ravaged by parasites, were alive but so near death they were already decomposing.

“You gonna cook that salmon?” Nell asked, when the fire caught and began to bank up.
“Sure he is,” D’Angelo said.
Kype asked, “Who was that old woman?”
“That’s my great-grandma,” Nell said. “I bet she’s older ’n your grandpa and she ain’t in no jewelry box, either.”
“She wasn’t what you’d call friendly.” Kype hadn’t brought a knife but he patted his pockets anyway.
“She probably didn’t even know you were there. She’s blind.”
“Bullshit,” Kype said.
“Bullshit you,” Nell said.
“She looked right at me. She knew I was there all right. She talked to me. She told me a story.”
“You maybe heard something, but you didn’t hear her. She doesn’t talk. She stopped a while back.”
“I’m telling you, she spoke to me.”
“Cut up that fish,” Nell said.
“I didn’t bring a knife.”
D’Angelo hopped to, arranging a row of the square pint cartons along the top of a gray drift log. Empty shotgun shells and spent casings marked the location of an earlier milk massacre. Old cartons sat in the sand, giving off a soured reek.
“Gummerment milk,” Nell explained. “We don’t know what to do with it all. We drink a little and shoot the rest.”
D’Angelo said, “I can’t wait.”
“My grandfather got that gun out of the Everett morgue,” Kype said. “From a friend who worked there. He had a bucket of guns just lying around.”
D’Angelo said, “That musta been way back yonder in nineteen ought something or other, wasn’t it?”
“I don’t know,” Kype said glumly.
He removed his boat shoes and burrowed his pale-pink feet in the sand. He stepped into the stream and started walking through the throng of dead and dying salmon toward the beach. A glassy wet margin of sand, where the waves of a rising tide turned back, left a wrack of sea lettuce and sand dollars and long whiplike ropes of kelp. Kype stood in the churning white froth, waves collapsing around him; a blueness had crept into the light. Cormorants gathered on the rocks and dried their wings, their heads turned aside and their black wings outspread like robed priests offering a benediction.
When Kype returned, Nell was gutting their salmon with the shell of a razor clam she’d whetted against a rock. Kype stood behind her and saw how the firelight brought the red in her hair to the surface. She’d been singing to herself and then she stopped and turned and said, “Hey, asshole.” He moved out of her light and her song resumed. Nell skewered the salmon with sticks, interlacing several deft sutures through the meat, and then she cantilevered the whole fish over the fire with a tree branch staked in the sand. The unadorned fillets began sizzling, the skin dripping gobbets of crackling fat on the coals.
“Kype.” D’Angelo’s voice echoed off the wet rock walls of the tiny cove and, reverberating, seemed to call Kype’s name from out at sea. “I’d say this is your spot.”
“I’m not feeling it.”
“You’re running out of choices, Buddha-boy.”
“I think I’ll head back,” Kype said. “It’s been a long day.”
“You can’t leave me out here.”
“You can’t leave, period,” Nell said.
“Three’s a crowd. You guys enjoy the salmon.”
“The trail’s underwater,” Nell said. “You have to wait for the tide to change.”
“Underwater?”
“Not forever. It goes back out, don’tcha know? All you have to do is wait.”
Kype pulled at the salmon with his fingers. The pink flesh was fatty and moist, with a smoky wood flavor. He folded the crisp skin in half and ate that, too. Finished, he picked his teeth with a white bone and said, “The old woman told me we were fish.”
Nell said, “You were hearing things.”
“I know what I heard,” Kype said.
“She don’t talk.”
“She talked to me.”
“Well, I’m just a dumb Injun,” Nell said. “Maybe it’s me that’s gone deaf.”
“How long until the tide changes?” Kype asked.
“Quit whining,” Nell said. “But, uh, you only bring that one bottle?”
“Let’s do some shooting,” D’Angelo said.
They left Nell by the fire, walking off thirty paces, arguing ballistics as they searched for an angle where they weren’t likely to get themselves killed by ricocheting bullets.
Kype loaded the gun. “Let’s wager,” he said.
“Oh, a wager, how delightful,” D’Angelo said, in a mocking highfalutin accent. “Well, O.K., old chap, old sport, let’s see—my harmonica against your Cadillac.”
“That’s not fair.”
“Fuck fair, Kype. You’re about to inherit a fortune. You’re done with fair. Fair is for losers.” He ran a hand through his greasy hair and said, “I’ll throw in my bolo.”
“I want Nell.”
“Oh,” D’Angelo said. “O.K.”
Kype shot first and missed. He’d never used a gun before, and he had expected something monumental, a big bang and some kick, but the pistol was tiny, nearly a toy, and it made only a faint, insignificant pop against the waves resounding in the cove.
“My turn,” D’Angelo said.
“I only get one shot?”
“If you miss it’s not your turn anymore.” D’Angelo frowned, shaking his head. “Everybody knows that.” He steadied the pistol at his side and then yanked it from an imaginary holster, popping off a shot that managed to plug the carton cleanly. “Oh, yeah,” he said, stopping to watch the stream of milk bleed into the sand. “That’s the way you do it.” The next shot exploded in a spray of white. The tattered box fell into the river, spilling milk, and drifted away.
“Never thought I’d be shooting milk when I left [REDACTED],” D’Angelo said.
“Why’d you leave?” Kype asked.
“I always had that dream, to hitchhike out [REDACTED].”
“I never did.”
“Where the hell would you go?” D’Angelo said, sweeping the barrel of the gun across the horizon. “Swimming, I guess.”
“Let me see the gun.”
“I haven’t missed yet, Kype. It’s still my turn. Why don’t you get us some of that hooch? This shooting is giving me a thirst.”
Kype went for the bottle but Nell refused to give it up and he returned empty-handed.
“But this isn’t the [REDACTED] anymore,” D’Angelo said. “It’s like west of the [REDACTED], or something.”
“Let me take a shot.”
“Kype, if I have to tell you one more time, I’m going to shoot you.”
Kype wondered if the new life awaiting him after probate would be like this, lived among strangers. He would inherit a fortune but never feel entirely at home.
“I thought there’d be something else,” D’Angelo said. “It’s disappointing. It’s making me lonesome. Nothing but stinking fish and the ocean. It’s no wonder you can’t find your spot, Kype. From out here, you have to go east to get to the [REDACTED].”
“What are you talking about?”
“We need to reload.” D’Angelo handed him the pistol. “But it’s still my turn.”
“Why do you get the girl?”
“She smells like fish,” D’Angelo said. “Just like everything else around here.”
Kype fed a shell into each chamber and closed the cylinder and gave it a spin. Then he made a break for it. D’Angelo lunged for him, but Kype juked across the beach, and when he reached the log he shoved the barrel of the gun against the belly of the first carton and shot it. He shot the one next to it; and he shot the one next to that. He tossed one of the milks in the air and tried to shoot it on the wing, missing wildly as the carton zoomed out of the sky, but after it caromed off his head and came to rest in the sand, plopping at his feet, he shot it twice for good measure. He mowed them down, picking off carton after carton, and when he ran out of bullets he grabbed the hot barrel and beat the last few milks with the butt of the gun, hammering away until the seams burst and the waxed cardboard turned to pulp. He caught his breath, looking over the carnage. The milks were slaughtered, and his shirt was soaked. Downstream the dark humped backs of the migrating salmon stirred indifferently in water that had turned cloudy white.

“Happy, Buddha-man?” D’Angelo brushed sand off his pleated pants and shook out the cuffs. “Now give me the gun.”
“We’re out of milk, my friend,” Kype said. “I shot the last milk. They’re all dead.”
“Some sport you are.”
“There’s nothing left,” Kype said, handing over the gun and the crumpled box of ammo.
“There’s you,” D’Angelo said. He cinched up his bolo tie, flexed the fingers of his right hand, and squinted at Kype. “And there’s these fucking fish.”
His first shot pierced the eye of an old buck with a bony face and a long, grim snout that curled like a brass coat hook. It had been holding in some quiet water behind a rock, and, when the bullet entered its brain, it merely let go and was borne gently downstream. D’Angelo knelt near the bank and bumped off two more of the weary, spent fish. They flopped in the shallows, their blood pouring out pink as it mixed with the milk. D’Angelo hardly bothered to aim. Every blind shot killed. He blasted the adipose fin off a hen. He popped another fish in the belly. He shot one that was already dead, and the salmon dissolved, drifting away like a cloud. He stopped to reload, slipping the last shell into the chamber while eying Kype, who turned away and watched the stream flow by. The remaining fish, undisturbed, went about their business. A mating pair wove in the current above a redd, braiding the water with their bodies, releasing eggs and milt as if pollinating a flower. The hen eventually dropped back to fan gravel over the nest and cover her fertilized eggs and D’Angelo raised the gun and fired and she died without much agony, just a shiver and then her slowly gaping mouth, faintly protesting, as the current drew her down to the sea.
“I oughta make you fuckers eat those dead fish!” Nell said. She was holding the urn and the bottle of bourbon hostage in her lap. “Those are my ancestors, you know. You killed my people!”
“I’m sorry about your fish,” D’Angelo said. “And I’m sorry about your ancestors, too, but I think we’re just gonna have to let bygones be bygones. I don’t see any other solution. Be reasonable.”
“You be reasonable!” Nell shouted.
“We’re just going around in circles here,” D’Angelo said. “Young Kype wants Old Kype’s ashes back and Nell, honeybunch, what is it you want?”
“I told you already.” She scooped out a handful of ashes and broadcast them into the river as if sowing seed.
“Please don’t throw any more of those ashes,” Kype said.
“Those fish were all sick,” D’Angelo said.
She shook the urn in their faces. “This guy is dead! And you want him back, this burned-up old Ashtray Man!”
They had been fighting forever, shouting over the waves, as the cove filled like a bowl, first with shadows, then with night. Now the moon was directly above them, a nimbus floating in the fog, as vague as a coin at the bottom of a well. Kype was cold and shivering in his clammy shirt.
“I’m thirsty,” he said.
“Have some milk,” Nell said.
D’Angelo coaxed heat from the fire, stirring the embers, and then drew the harmonica from his shirt pocket. He tapped spit from the blowholes and then twisted his mouth over the instrument, but the miserable honking was no match for the sound of the crashing surf. He threw the harmonica at Nell. “Might as well have that, too,” he said.
“They come here so we can eat,” Nell said. “What if they don’t come back next year?” She looked at both men, waiting for an answer. “That old woman, my great-grandmother, came here to bathe and pray every morning of her life.”
“I can’t swim,” D’Angelo said.
Under cover of dark, Kype stared at Nell. She had flat wide cheekbones like the [REDACTED] and he imagined that for a kiss all he would have to do was hold those bones, tip her head forward, and drink from her face.
“O.K.,” he said. “I’ll do it.”
“Smart man,” Nell said. “Otherwise bad spooky shit was gonna follow you everywhere and forever.”
Nell patted a place in the sand and told Kype to lie down. She muddled ash and bourbon in the palm of her hand and then dipped her finger in the paste and painted a thick line down the middle of Kype’s forehead. “After this,” she said, “we’ll play the bone game.” She traced two circles around his eyes, enlarging them, and then brushed a black streak across each temple, giving him pointed ears. “You can win back the rest of these ashes,” she said. “I’m giving you that chance.” She drew fangs on either side of his mouth and whiskers that dashed away from his nose. “And then you got to go in that stream and clean yourself up,” she said, unbuttoning Kype’s shirt, “because you stink real bad. The spirits won’t come near you.” On his belly she made a school of crude fish, each like a lopsided Möbius strip. They swam out of his navel toward his heart and then migrated across his collarbone and up his throat to his mouth.
Kype lay very still, hoping that Nell would draw fish on him forever.
She said, “You got to get your soul back in your head. Somebody stole it, that’s my guess. Maybe it happened while you were sleeping. Or maybe you got a bad scare and it just jumped out of you. You ever feel the top of your head moving?”
And just then he did, as if the top of his skull had been opened like a jar. Calmed by the flutter of Nell’s fingers at his throat, Kype closed his eyes and was surprised at the sudden vision of his grandfather, who slipped a hand in his and led him into the lobby of what had once been a very fine hotel. Now it seemed to be a home for retired sailors. Mariners sat in stuffed chairs and on dusty couches. The light in the lobby was dim and the air was dead-still and Kype suspected that even the hearts beating beneath the seafarers’ soup-stained shirts pumped like old leather bellows and blew nothing but gray ash. No one spoke a word. It was as if these sailors had been drawn back through time into a private darkness and all the waters of the world had retreated and finally gathered in their eyes, glassy reflections that floated like mirages on the surface of their dry and deserted faces.
Kype’s grandfather pointed to the top of a grand staircase. When Kype reached the landing, he looked back, but the old man waved goodbye, and Kype continued on alone, down a long corridor, sensing that the moment he’d been promised all his life was now upon him. The hotel’s glory days still hung in the air, still haunted the rooms and halls. The velveteen wallpaper suggested a gay opulence gone seedy, empty linen closets lined the dark hallways, and dumbwaiters rose from a kitchen full of cold stoves. All the rooms had long braided cords, thick gold ropes that had once rung service bells but now summoned nothing. A door to one of the rooms opened, and Kype stood outside, where he watched a sailor twist his service rope into a noose and hang himself. Had the bells been working the old man might have lived, inadvertently calling for help as he swayed back and forth, but the tongues had been clipped long ago, and in the silence of that hotel the hoisted sailor strangled. Kype alone had a voice, but when he screamed for help a dove flushed from his mouth, crying, Alas, alas, and all he could do was stand in the hall and watch. The sailor died swinging, as if by a lanyard, in the empty air above his bed. A deeper quiet settled in the room, like the moral at the end of a fable. Kype now felt that he knew what all the sailors in the lobby knew.

But that knowledge vanished as he opened his eyes. Nell was breaking a stick in half, marking one of the pieces with a band of black ash and leaving the other plain. He understood the rules even before she explained them, as if he’d played the bone game in a past life. Nell would shuffle the sticks behind her back and then all Kype had to do was point left or right and pick the one without the ash. For the first round, just to be fair, Nell agreed to put up her rhinestone hair clip against Kype’s Cadillac.
“John Wayne gave it to my great-grandmother,” she said.
“He just came up here and gave it to her?” D’Angelo said.
“It used to belong to Pilar.”
“Just pulled in and said, ‘Hiya, Grannie, I’m John Wayne, here’s a hair clip’?”
“All those guys used to sail up from [REDACTED] in their yachts. John Wayne, Bing Crosby, Clark Gable. They came here to fish for salmon and they didn’t use no guns, either.”
Nell hid her hands behind her back, shuffling the sticks, moving in tune to a song that seemed to have no real words and therefore, to Kype, at least, no beginning and no end. Over and over she sang he-ha-ya-ho-ho-ha-ya-ho-he, a loop of sound that made no more sense to Kype than the surf or the wind. He looked long and hard at her face, trying to see the truth, but his first guess was wrong, and so was his second, and in a matter of a few minutes he’d lost his car and his shoes. She shuffled and sang and Kype pointed to Nell’s right hand, and she showed him, once again, the unmarked stick. Between rounds Nell drummed, beating Kype’s shoes against a log, but the cadence was off, it seemed crazy and disruptive, working against the heart’s rhythm. The jumbled pounding made Kype tense and excited; it confused and deranged him, and then Nell started weaving taunts into her song. “You’re blind, he-ha-ya-ho,” she sang. “You can’t see, ho-ha-ya-ho-he.” As a game, it seemed no more complicated than a coin toss, and Kype kept playing, believing the odds would naturally swing in his favor. All he needed was time. “He-ha-ya-ho, your head’s got no top.” Nell now had the urn, the Eldorado, the bourbon, the harmonica, and the gun. Kype had never won games, although his life had always been presented to him as a kind of victory. He unbuckled his wristwatch. He lost his pants and the contents of his pockets. He discovered that losing didn’t really bother him. It wasn’t nearly the disaster he would have imagined. When his wallet was emptied of cash, he started writing I.O.U.s on old credit-card receipts. He pledged his collection of baseball cards, his Mickey Mantle, his Willie Mays, even pawning his autographed Don Mincher from the 1969 [REDACTED] Pilots. Nell’s drumming drove time out of his mind. Unable to stop himself, he began to gamble away little pieces of his inheritance—an antique dining set and a muffineer and a box of costume jewelry that would complement Nell’s hair clip. He stood before her in his forlorn saggy white briefs but he didn’t feel cold. He had nothing, like all the great men—like Gandhi. Nothing, like Jesus. Nothing, like the Buddha!

Nothing! he thought. Nothing!
“Now you’ve got to swim,” Nell said.
It was a shallow stream, but the current was strong. Kype clawed at the bed, his belly scraping over rocks, his ribs stabbed by snags that jutted from the banks. The slither of salmon passing over his back or brushing by his face gave Kype the feeling that he was running a gantlet, that hands were grabbing at him. He tried to fight his way upstream, but was tugged by his feet toward the sea. He took a deep breath and dunked below the surface. It was noisy, turbulent, not the quiet he had expected, and the water tasted like dirt. That surprised him, the faint scent, the trace of earth in the water, and it filled him with longing. As a lonely, disconsolate boy, he had watched container ships and tankers turn with the tide, watched them all day long, out his grandfather’s window, as if in their slow turning they were the hands of a large clock, a clock madly trying to mark time on a face of water. Behind the ships, farther west, he could see the headlands of an island. The island was privately owned and appeared only in detailed nautical maps, but as a child Kype had believed that it was his: everything that fell away, everything that died, all the broken promises and routine disappointments and lost hopes of his boyhood eventually washed up out there, or so he imagined. For him it was a kind of afterworld across the water, a combination of sacred ground and junkyard. The idea had begun when he reached the age where he understood that he had no father and for weeks he’d consoled himself, imagining that his dad was a desperado who had lammed it across the bay to that island. Later he believed that all the cowboys and Indians had gone to that island, too. Lost marbles, broken toasters, snapped shoelaces, odd socks, old TVs, and an endless series of small pets found a final home out there. The words to the bedtime prayers he no longer said were out there. Anything he couldn’t explain was out there. The good friends of his father’s whom he called Uncle, the men who came around for a while and then all of a sudden didn’t—they’d all left for the island. He hadn’t thought about the island in years, but now, as he fought the current, it came back to him with all the vivid romance of his childhood, and he imagined that his grandfather, old Kype, had set sail for that island. Young Kype’s soul was out there, too, he was sure of it, and so he kept swimming.
Early the next morning, Kype stood in the dirt plaza outside the bait shop, picking blackberry thorns from his palm. His hands were bleeding and his arms were covered in fish scales, shimmering blue and pink sequins. His stomach was scraped and scarred and a deep bruising beneath his ribs made it hard to breathe. Nell had been asleep, curled in the sand, and D’Angelo had been snoring next to a log, clinging to it, perhaps afraid that he’d be swept out to sea. Kype had left them there, dressing quickly, grabbing the gun and what remained of his grandfather’s ashes and his car keys, wading quietly into the teeming river, through the crowd of spawning salmon. The stream was full, the dying still dying, the living continuing their run, while yesterday’s dead had been washed out to sea, making room for today’s. A couple of milk cartons hung in the reeds, but the water had cleared and was once again bright as crystal and shining with light. Kype knelt in the water and held one of the battered fish by the belly and looked into its eye, wondering what it might be thinking. He bowed his head and placed a kiss on the salmon’s cold lips, and then he eased the fish back into the river, letting it slip through his fingers.

Climbing out of the cove, winding his way up the crooked path, Kype got banged up pretty good, but he had his ashes and his gun, and over there, parked in front of the chief’s yard, was the Eldorado. He felt in his pocket for his car keys and found a couple of the hasty I.O.U.s he’d written. In the light of a new day he was no longer able to imagine how Nell could possibly have believed that the bone game was for real. The whole fantastic ordeal seemed like a fevered dream, and as the remnants of last night’s hour of faith faded he felt strangely deserted. He cradled the urn in his arms and stood there as the sun rose over the water and the wind came up, blowing sand and dust across the plaza. The small white shacks started to glow. The old woman came outside and sat with her blanket and strange cedar crown, warming her face in the sun. The scene was as stubborn and enduring as a monument, and to Kype it seemed as if the dust rising in whorls off the road had claimed these people, all of them arranged just as they had been the day before. The little girl stood in the street, looking east, shielding her eyes against the rising sun. The old man walked by with the same hesitant shuffle, his feet dragging as he stooped forward and followed his shadow across the road. The engine swayed above the old DeSoto and the open toolbox and the coffee cup still rested on the fender, as if work might begin at any moment. Salmon season was over, but otherwise nothing had changed. 

