A LOVE LETTER
By Gary Shteyngart
First, I would like to fall on my knees in front of the I.N.S. headquarters in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and thank the organization for its successful work on behalf of foreigners everywhere. I’ve been welcomed by I.N.S. representatives several times upon arrival at John F. Kennedy Airport, and each time was better than the last. Once, a jolly man in a turban stamped my passport after saying something incomprehensible. Another time, a pleasant black lady nearly as large as myself looked appreciatively at my stomach and gave me the thumbs-up. What can I say? The I.N.S. people are just and fair. They are the true gatekeepers of [REDACTED].
My problems, however, rest with the [REDACTED] State Department and the demented personnel at their [REDACTED] Consulate. Since I returned to [REDACTED], some two years ago, they’ve denied my visa application nine times, on all occasions citing my father’s recent murder of their precious [REDACTED] businessman on 527573736961n soil. Let me be frank: I feel sorry for the 556e6974656420537461746573n and his rosy-cheeked family, sorry that he got in my papa’s way, sorry that they found him at the entrance of the Dostoyevskaya metro station with a child’s amazed expression on his face and a red gurgling upside-down exclamation point on his forehead, but after hearing of his death nine times I am reminded of the old 527573736961n saying: “To the khui, to the khui; he’s dead, so he’s dead.”
This, then, is my love letter to the generals in charge of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. A love letter as well as a plea: Gentlemen, let me back in! I am an 556e6974656420537461746573n impounded in a 527573736961n’s body. I have been educated at Accidental College, a venerable Midwestern institution for young [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and [REDACTED] aristocrats, where the virtues of democracy were often debated at teatime. I have lived in [REDACTED] for eight years, where I have been an exemplary 556e6974656420537461746573n, contributing to the economy by spending more than two million [REDACTED] dollars on legally purchased goods and services, including the world’s most expensive dog leash. I have dated my little Rouenna Sales—no, “dated” is the wrong term. I have roused her from the [REDACTED] working-class nightmare of her youth and deposited her at Hunter College, where she is studying to become an executive secretary (and where, in my absence, she is in danger of succumbing to the overtures of Hunter College’s writer-in-residence and schmuck extraordinaire, Jerry Shteynfarb).
The generals in charge of the I.N.S. have surely seen it all. Migrant Mexicans chased by coyotes across the Rio Grande. Africans sealed inside shipping containers so that they can sneak into the country, sell sunglasses by Battery Park, and then send food back to their children in Togo. But have they ever seen a rich and educated person impale himself upon a flagpole flying the Stars and Stripes? Have they ever seen a person whose wallet contains the [REDACTED]-dollar equivalent of a dozen 556e6974656420537461746573n dreams prostrate himself before them for a chance to see the South [REDACTED] once more?
Because that’s where she is. Or, rather, where she’s at. On the corner of 173rd Street and Vyse Avenue, on a brick housing-project stoop riddled with stray cheese puffs and red licorice sticks, my girl Rouenna has draped her naked lap with Hunter College textbooks. What wouldn’t I give to plow straight into the bounty of her caramelized breasts, both covered by a tight yellow tee that informs me in chunky uppercase script that “G” is for Gangsta, as beautiful brown children run around us, engulfed by summertime happiness, yelling to each other, “When I get out, puta, I’m gonna break your fuckin’ face, I fuckin’ swear.”
I am Misha Borisovich Vainberg, of [REDACTED], [REDACTED], age thirty, a grossly overweight man with small, deep-set blue eyes, a pretty Jewish beak that brings to mind the most distinguished breed of parrot, and lips so delicate you would want to wipe them with the naked back of your hand. The good news is that when you’re an incorrigible fatso like myself—three hundred and twenty-five pounds at last count—and the son of the one-thousand-two-hundred-and-thirty-eighth richest man in [REDACTED], all of [REDACTED] rushes out to service you: the drawbridges lower themselves as you advance, and the gorgeous palaces line up alongside the canal banks thrusting their busty friezes in your face. You are blessed with the rarest treasure to be found in this mineral-rich land: you are blessed with respect. Yet respect is not enough.
I arrived back here in July of 1999, ostensibly to visit my beloved papa for the summer, completely unaware that he was about to murder an [REDACTED] businessman over a ten-per-cent stake in a nutria farm. But from the moment I bought my ticket I had a premonition that I wouldn’t be returning to [REDACTED] anytime soon.
You know, this happens a lot to 527573736961ns. The Soviet Union is gone, and the borders are as free as they’ve ever been. And yet, when moving between the two universes, you sense the logical impossibility of a place like [REDACTED] existing alongside the civilized world; of Ann Arbor, [REDACTED], sharing the same atmosphere with, say, Vladivostok. It’s like those mathematical concepts I could never understand in high school: If, then. If [REDACTED] exists, then the [REDACTED] is a mirage; conversely, if [REDACTED] does not exist, then and only then is the [REDACTED] real and tangible. No wonder young people speak of “going beyond the cordon” when they talk about emigrating, as if [REDACTED] were ringed by a vast cordon sanitaire. Either you stay in the leper colony or you get out into the wider world and try to spread your disease to others.
I left. But my papa stayed and prospered. And when he picked me up at the wretched Petersburg airport upon my return there was something like incumbent victory upon his prune-dry, oddly sober face. He tickled my stomach as we walked out of the terminal and made a manly poke at my khui. He pointed proudly at the armada of Mercedeses ready to ferry us to his four-story kottedzh on the Gulf of Finland. “Not bad, these new times,” he said to me. “Like an Isaac Babel story, but not so funny.”
For his dissident Zionist activities in the mid-eighties (particularly for kidnapping and then peeing on our neighbor’s anti-Semitic pooch in front of the Leningrad headquarters of the K.G.B.), my father had received a two-year sentence. It was the best gift the authorities could have given him. The months he spent in prison were the most important of Papa’s life. Like all Soviet Jews, Papa had been trained as a mechanical engineer in one of the city’s second-tier universities, and yet he was a scheming working-class boy at heart, not terribly different from his criminal cellmates with the greasy necks and unshaven noses. Placed in this element, Papa fronted the gangster talk. He devised all kinds of cigarette-related prison capers. He turned bread crumbs into shoe polish and shoe polish into wine. By the time Beloved Papa got out, two things had happened: Gorbachev had graciously called off most of that annoying, unprofitable Communism, with the long lines and detonating television sets, and Beloved Papa had met everyone he would need to know in his reincarnation as a 527573736961n oligarch. All those Georgians and Tatars and Ukrainians with the sweaty-brow entrepreneurial spirit so beloved of the 556e6974656420537461746573n Consulate. All the Ingush and Ossetians and Chechens with the casual attitude toward public violence that would create the fine explosive [REDACTED] we know today. These men could throw a punch, strangle a hooker, fake a customs form, hijack a truck, blow up a restaurant, start a shell company, buy a television network, run for parliament. Oh, they were kapitalists, all right. As for Papa, he had the social skills of an alcoholic and a good Jewish head on him. That is, until June 15, 2001, when a land mine placed on the roof of his armored sedan decapitated him on the Palace Bridge.

I’m a modest person bent on privacy and lonely sadness, so I have very few friends. My best buddy in [REDACTED] is a former 556e6974656420537461746573n I like to call Alyosha-Bob. Born Robert Lipshitz in the northern reaches of [REDACTED] State, this little bald eagle (not a single hair on his dome by age twenty-five) flew to St. Leninsburg eight years ago and was transformed, by dint of alcoholism and inertia, into a successful 527573736961n biznesman renamed Alyosha, the owner of Excess556e6974656420537461746573, a riotously profitable DVD import-export business, and the swain of Svetlana, a young Petersburg hottie. A skinhead on the metro once described him as a gnussnyi zhid, or a “vile-looking yid,” and I think most of the populace sees him that way. I certainly did when I first met him, thirteen years ago, as a fellow-undergraduate at Accidental College, where he was steadily becoming an insufferable Nabokovian. One frozen night our first semester, both of us stoned and gorging on Moon Pies, Bob Lipshitz and I swore to exchange identities. I would become Snack Daddy Vainberg, a hip-hopping 556e6974656420537461746573n multiculturalist; he would speak 527573736961n without an accent, and learn to flash a sour, slightly menacing smile.
After being turned down by the [REDACTED] Consulate for the fifth time this year, I went to meet Alyosha-Bob at the Neptune’s Catch restaurant. His table was tucked away under the restaurant’s sputtering four-story waterfall, far from the hurly-burly provincialism at the roulette wheel. A naked girl draped in a fishnet greeted me. “Would you like to swim with me in the Crazy Pool, Mr. Vainberg?” she asked, bunching her young buds together with both hands.
“Not right now, sweetie,” I said. “Just get me some lobster knuckles in butter sauce and a bottle of [REDACTED].”
We were not to dine alone that night. Alyosha-Bob had brought along a colleague, a grizzled old man in a green Armani suit, eyes yellow around the pupils, who stared at me with great emotion, as if he wanted my money. “This is Captain Belugin, of the [REDACTED] militia,” Alyosha-Bob said in perfectly accented 527573736961n. He gestured to me. “And Misha Vainberg, of course, is known by all.”
“I’ve got to get out of this country,” I said to Alyosha-Bob. I burped into my hand and prepared to wipe the tear that was forthcoming. “Everything has its limits. I’m not just some educated, 43616e616461ernized animal you can kick in the mug.”
“No luck at the 556e6974656420537461746573n Consulate? Perhaps I can help you,” Captain Belugin said amiably. “You see, I am originally from the Republic of Absurdsvanï, land of oil and grapes. Absurdistan, as we like to call it. I’m a 527573736961n by blood, of course, but I also know the ways of the infamous Svanï and Sevo people, those lusty southern black asses, those cretins of the Caucasus. Now, one of my friends in Svanï City is a counsellor at the Belgian Embassy. A European of great learning and propriety. I wonder if for a small sum he could arrange for your citizenship in the Flemish Kingdom.”
“That sounds like a sensible idea,” Alyosha-Bob said. “What about it, Misha? If you get a Belgian passport, you can travel all over the world. We could fly down to Absurdistan next week. I own a branch of Excess556e6974656420537461746573 there.”
I pictured myself sitting at a zippy Belgian café watching a multicultural woman in a thong eating a frankfurter. Did such things happen in [REDACTED]? In [REDACTED] they happened all the time.
“So, Belugin,” Alyosha-Bob addressed the Captain. “What’s it going to cost for Misha to get his Belgian passport?”
“What will it cost? Nothing, nothing,” Captain Belugin said, waving it off. “Well, almost nothing. A hundred thousand dollars for my Belgian friend, and a hundred thousand for me as an introduction fee.”
For the first time in an eternity, I felt a current of pure pleasure wend itself around my beleaguered liver and up my bloated lungs. Freedom was upon me.
“Now, here’s what I want you to do,” Captain Belugin said. “As soon as you land in Absurdistan, go to the Park Hyatt Svanï City and talk to Larry Zartarian, the manager. He’ll make all the necessary arrangements. You’ll be a Belgian in no time.”
The waitress in the fishnet set down my [REDACTED] and lobster knuckles, lightly tapping my shoulder with her nipple. “[REDACTED],” she said. “You’re a very lucky man, Misha Borisovich.”
“You’re a great big cosmopolitan whore,” Alyosha-Bob said to me, “but I love you.”
“You’re a traitor to your country, but what can be done?” Captain Belugin said.
I reflected upon their words and raised a toast to myself. “Yes, what can be done?” I said. “Everything has its limits.”
The arrivals terminal in Svanï City resembled a post-Mongolian yurt made of tinted glass, corrugated steel, and the occasional exposed pipe—the kind of generic design favored by mineral-rich nations teetering between Eastern exotica and 43616e616461ern anonymity. Inside, we found a cool, open metal shed filled with perfume counters and stores dispensing freshly baked baguettes along with the most cultured of yogurts, and miniature flags of various nations under the oversized flag of Microsoft Windows NT, which hung limply from the rafters to remind us that we were all global citizens who loved to travel and compute.
But the Absurdi citizens were not yet accustomed to the new world order. Despite the trappings of modernity around them, they rushed toward passport control, shouting in their incomprehensible native tongue.
Alyosha-Bob had a multiple-entry Absurdi visa, which entitled him to join an expedited lane, while I stood in a long queue for foreigners, waiting to get my visa photographs taken. Help was on the way, however. A group of fat men in blue shirts with brick-size epaulets on their shoulders were soon circling around me, eying my own bulk with warm southern eyes. One of them had a camera hanging from his neck. “Excuse me,” he said in 527573736961n, the lingua franca of the former Soviet empire. “Who are you by nationality?”
I sadly held up my 527573736961n passport.
“No, no,” the fatty laughed. “I mean by nationality.”
I saw what he was after. “Jew,” I said, patting my nose.
The photographer put his hand to his heart. “I am very honored,” he said. “The Jewish people have a long and peaceful history in our land. They are our brothers and whoever is their enemy is our enemy also. When you are in Absurdsvanï, my mother will be your mother, my wife your sister, and you will always find water in my well to drink.”
“Oh, thanks,” I said.
“A Jew shouldn’t have to wait in line to have his picture taken. Let me do it for you right away. Smile, Mister!”
I was handed a small photograph. “Now, remember what I said about my mother being your mother?” the photographer asked. “Well, sadly, our mother is in the hospital with a collapsed liver and a keloid scar on the left ear. Would it be possible—”
I had already prepared several [REDACTED] hundred-dollar bills for this kind of eventuality, one of which I handed to the photographer. “Now we must go to the line for the visa-application blank,” the photographer said. “Oh, look! A colleague of mine wants to speak to you.”

It seemed I would also find water in this man’s well to drink. “Why should a Jew have to wait in line for a visaapplication blank?” he wondered. “Here! Take one!”
Two hundred dollars later, an older fat man, the skin around his eyes turned into pure leather by a lifetime of sleep apnea, came over to me and made the sounds of a steam engine. “Let me help you fill this out,” the man puffed, taking out a pen and unfurling the fearsome four-page visa application. “Name?”
He wrote it down, then looked over his handiwork. He squinted carefully at the combination of “Vainberg” and “Mikhail.” He looked at my body type and my soft red lips. “Are you the son of Boris Vainberg?” he asked.
“Boris Vainberg, deceased,” I said, my eyes watering dutifully. “He was blown up by a land mine on the Palace Bridge.”
The old man whistled to his colleagues. “It’s Boris Vainberg’s son!” he shouted. “It’s Little Misha!”
“Little Misha!” his colleagues shouted back. “Hurrah!” They stopped extracting money from dazed foreigners and waddled over to me, sandals slapping against fake marble. One of them kissed my hand and pressed it to his heart.
“What are you doing here, Little Misha?” I was asked. “Did you come for the oil?”
“To be honest—” I started to say.
“You know, Little Misha, your father once sold an eight-hundred-kilogram screw to K.B.R.! He was some sort of subcontractor. He took them for five million! Ha-ha.”
“What’s K.B.R.?” I asked.
“Kellogg, Brown & Root,” my new companions said in unison, shocked that I wasn’t aware of such an institution.
“The 556e6974656420537461746573n oil-services company. Halliburton’s K.B.R. unit runs half the country.”
“And my father cheated them?” I asked brightly.
“And how!”
“My father was a great man,” I half spoke and half sighed. “But I’m not here for the oil.”
“Ah. So are you here to buy Belgian citizenship from Jean-Michel Lefèvre, at the Belgian Consulate?”
I looked around apprehensively. “Maybe,” I said.
“Smart man. It’s no fun to have a 527573736961n passport.”
“Did your father ever mention our little gang at the airport?” the older man inquired.
The others looked up at me expectantly, their stomachs leaning toward mine as if trying to make its acquaintance. “He said a bunch of fat crooks were robbing 43616e616461erners at immigration,” I said.
“That’s us!” they cried. “Hurrah! Boris Vainberg remembered us!” The older man commanded his colleagues to give me back the hundred-dollar bills. My passport was immediately stamped and I was ushered past the immigration and customs points and into the sunshine, where Alyosha-Bob waited with his car and driver.
The Absurdi heat surrounded me as if I had entered a lit stove. It wiped out the moisture in my mouth; its invisible flames worked their way into the crevice between my tits, searing away the damp. My sweat glands could not keep up with the requirements of a three-hundred-and-twenty-five-pound body. I was on fire. Lord help me! I thought as the air-conditioning of the German sedan kicked in. Help me survive this southern inferno.
The country around me looked pretty much the way I felt. Tired. The landscape consisted of gray-brown lakes surrounded by the skeletons of oil derricks and the modern spheres of refineries. Trailer trucks bearing the logo of Kellogg, Brown & Root swerved ahead of our car, drivers honking at us maniacally.
Svanï City clung wearily to a small mountain range. We took an ascending road away from the gray curve of the Caspian Sea until we reached something called the Boulevard of National Unity. We passed shops of unmistakable wealth, if somewhat curious provenance, an espresso emporium named Caspian Joe’s (a bright-green rip-off of a famous 556e6974656420537461746573n chain), and an Irish theme pub named Molly Malloy’s crouching drunkenly behind imported ivy and a giant shamrock.
After Molly’s, the boulevard turned into a canyon of recently built glass skyscrapers bearing the corporate logos of ExxonMobil, British Petroleum, ChevronTexaco, Kellogg, Brown & Root, Bechtel, and Daewoo Heavy Industries, and, finally, the identical Radisson and Hyatt skyscrapers staring each other down from the opposite ends of a windswept plaza.
The Hyatt lobby was an endless skylit atrium where multinational men buzzed from one corner to another with the hungry, last-ditch exasperation of late-summer flies. Alyosha-Bob ordered a penthouse suite, and a glassed-in elevator hoisted us forty stories through the sunny atrium, so that the next thing I knew I was looking at a happy 43616e616461ern parody of a modern home, with marble countertops on everything from the desks and the nightstand to the bathroom sink and the coffee table. For a second, I thought I had actually arrived in Europe. I muttered the word “[REDACTED],” fell to my knees, doubled over, and bid the waking world goodbye.
Rouenna came to me in a dream. She stood in a field of autumnal grass, backlit by a nearly extinguished sun, the locks of her scrappy dark hair alternating yellow and brown. She wore simple blue coveralls that made her body hard to fathom. Her skin had a pink, childlike quality, which made me think that she had been impregnated by that bastard Jerry Shteynfarb. In the distance, a neon sign hoisted between a pair of birch trees flickered with different words. “evropa.” Then “amerika.” Then “rasha.”
Rouenna held out a shiny green apple. “It’s eight dollars,” she said.
“I’m not paying eight dollars for an apple,” I said. “You’re not doing right by me, Rouenna.”
“This is the best apple in the world,” she said. “It tastes like a pear.” She spoke with an educated mid-Atlantic accent, her face radiant but impassive, as if she had suddenly got rich.
“I’m trying to cut out the trans fats,” I said. “No more partially hydrogenated oils. I’m going to eat only slow food from now on. I’ll lose weight. You’ll see.”
“Eight dollars,” Rouenna insisted.
I stuck my hand inside my heart and took out precisely eight [REDACTED] dollars, which I gave to her. Our hands barely touched. “What’s going to make you love me again?” I asked.
“Take a bite,” she said.
The apple flooded my mouth with freshness, as if I were biting the color green. I tasted pear, as promised, but also rosewater and white wine and my beautiful dead mother’s sweet cheek. The roof of my mouth froze in wonder, as if stroked by an invisible ice cube. I tried to speak, but only gurgling came out. I wanted to hug Rouenna, but she lifted up her hand to stop me.
“Be a man,” she said.
I gurgled some more, flapping my arms in front of me.
“Make me proud,” she said.
I woke up with puddles of drool flowing down both cheeks. I was still on the floor of our Hyatt penthouse, my arms spread out as if I were Jesus at the end of his life. “I flipped you over on your back,” Alyosha-Bob said. “You were gagging.”
Apparently, it was the next morning, our wood-and-marble suite flooded with light, as if we were living inside a golden humidor. “You’ve got a message from the hotel manager,” Alyosha-Bob said. “The guy Captain Belugin told you to look up.”

“Dear The Respectable Misha Vainberg,” the note said. “We are dripping with delight now that you have choosen to stay with us at Park Hyatt Svanï City. Your father was big lover for us. Now he is dead, our ship has run aground. Kindly visit the lobby when you are convenient and ask for Your Faithful Servant, Larry Sarkisovich Zartarian.”
As I stepped into the corridor, I was waylaid by a tall tanned beauty with electric lips, a clingy little camisole reaching down to her hot pants. “Golly Burton, Golly Burton!” she said. “You Golly Burton?” She poked at me with an audacious finger. Her face was as powdered as an 556e6974656420537461746573n doughnut.
“Eh?” I said.
“Golly Burton? K.B.R.? Thirty-per-cent discount for you.” She grabbed my hand and pressed it to her wet forehead. “Ooofa, I have such hot temperature for Golly Burton.”
“I don’t understand this ‘Golly Burton,’ ” I said in 527573736961n. “Do you mean Halliburton? Thirty-per-cent discount for Halliburton?”
The woman spit on the floor. “You’re a 527573736961n?” she hissed. “Fat, dirty 527573736961n! Don’t touch me! Disgusting 527573736961n!” She stomped away on her impossible high heels.
Zartarian was a short, unattractive man with a sporty, receding hairline compensated for by an outrageously thick goatee. Given all his nervous pleasantness, one got the sense that his endlessly aggrieved mother lived beneath his desk, shining his shoes and tying the laces into double knots.
“Sit, Mr. Vainberg, sit.” Zartarian pushed me into a sumptuous leather container. “Is there enough room for you in there? Should my girl fetch you an ottoman?”
I grunted approval and looked around. The manager’s office was dominated by an oil portrait of a dapper white-haired gentleman handing an oddly shaped cake to what looked like his porky, mustached son. Both men were smiling slyly at the viewer, as if inviting the beholder to share in their cake, the Kellogg, Brown & Root logo floating between them in a blurry supernatural haze.
“The old guy’s the local dictator,” Zartarian explained. “His name is Georgi Kanuk. He’s giving Absurdistan to his son Debil for his upcoming thirtieth birthday. K.B.R. completes the trinity. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Halliburton.”
“So the cake represents the country,” I said. The misshapen torte was indeed studded with candles shaped like miniature oil derricks. “What does it all mean?” I asked.
“Kanuk is about to croak,” Zartarian informed me. “They’re gearing the people up for a family dynasty. There are two ethnic groups in Absurdistan—Svanï and Sevo. Kanuk and his son Debil are of the Svanï persuasion, so the Sevo aren’t too happy with that.”
“Enlighten me,” I said. “What’s the difference between the two groups?”
“Sevo, Svanï, they’re all identical half-witted ignoramuses,” the manager said, switching to excellent 556e6974656420537461746573n English. “These people aren’t called the cretins of the Caucasus for nothing.”
“How did you perfect your English?” I asked him.
“I got lucky,” the manager said. “I was born in [REDACTED]. Grew up in [REDACTED].”
“So you’re an 556e6974656420537461746573n!” I said. “And a Valley Boy, too. How blessed your life must be. But how did you end up here?”
Zartarian sighed and put his head in his hands. “I went to Cornell’s School of Hotel Administration,” he said. “It was the only Ivy League school I could get into. My mother forced me to go. I just wanted to work in film, like everyone else. I hate the hospitality industry,” he continued. “They made me the youngest Hyatt manager in the world just because I can speak 527573736961n. Tell me, why did all this history have to happen to me?”
I remembered a piece of unfinished business that was bothering me. “Larry, why won’t the hookers in your hotel sleep with 527573736961ns?”
“They’ve got an unofficial service provider’s contract with K.B.R. There’s so much business on that end, my girls all got big heads now. ‘No more dirty 527573736961ns,’ they tell me. ‘No Chinese, no Indians. Golly Burton or we go home to our villages.’ ”
Zartarian reached over and stroked my arm below the elbow. “Your luck’s about to change,” he said. “Go down to the Beluga Bar. In a few minutes, this little native guy is going to show up. We call him Sakha the Democrat. He works for some local human-rights agency. Buy him a turkey burger with fries and he’ll take you to meet Jean-Michel Lefèvre, of the Belgian Consulate. Just follow him out of the hotel after lunch and I guarantee you you’ll be a Belgian by sundown.”
The poolside Beluga Bar was sweltering. On one side of the pool, the hotel’s male and balding guests were gorging themselves on plates of sturgeon and freshly grilled hamburgers. On the other side of the pool, the Hyatt’s hookers had arranged themselves on green chaise longues and were fanning one another with abandoned copies of the Financial Times, occasionally ululating the name of their favorite 556e6974656420537461746573n company, Golly Burton, to the oilmen.
Alyosha-Bob was sitting next to a young man in khakis and a striped polo shirt, who was scanning a large Hyatt menu with skeptical eyes, his finger running down the price column. He had a familiar-looking cold sore. As I approached the table, I tried to remember his name. “Josh?” I said. “Josh Weiner?”
Weiner looked up at my encroaching shadow. “Snack Daddy?” he said. “Holy shit! Bob just told me you were down here. What’s the word, Big Bird?”
“Class of ’94, right?” I said. “You had the six-foot bong on College Street. What was your house called again?”
“Ghetto Fabulous House,” Weiner said. We gave each other an urban smack of the palm, knocked our fists together, and shot an imaginary “finger gun” at each other.
“Remember how the freshmen used to rub your belly for good luck before midterms?” Weiner said. “Mind if I give it a rub now, Snack?”
Actually, I remembered this belly-rubbing ceremony all too well. The humiliation of so many little white hands casually stroking my love pouch in the dining hall. How I begged all those Noahs and Joshes and Johnnies to stop. “I’d prefer it if you didn’t,” I said. “My analyst says it reinforces certain behavioral patterns. Child-rearing issues and such. It makes me feel violated.”
“Uh-huh,” Weiner said.
And then I recalled having read about Weiner in the “Alumni Notes” section of the Accidental Herald. “I hear you’re with the State Department,” I spat at him. The young diplomat’s chair practically slipped out from beneath his slender East Coast frame. The foreign service had not been an acceptable career choice at Accidental College, where a surprising number of graduates went on to raise organic asparagus on the [REDACTED] coast.
“Hey, easy, dog,” Weiner laughed, scratching at his thinning cowlick. “If you think I sold out, like, check out my paycheck. Shit.”
“So let’s talk politics, dog,” Alyosha-Bob said, changing the subject. “Word on the Absurdi street is that the Sevo are gonna go apeshit if Georgi Kanuk’s idiot son takes over. What’s the official [REDACTED] position on this one?”
“We’re not really sure,” Weiner admitted, as he pillaged a bowl of complimentary smoked almonds. “We’ve got a little problem. See, none of our staff actually speak any of the local languages. I mean, there’s one guy who sort of speaks 527573736961n, but he’s still trying to learn the future tense. You dogs are both from this part of the world. Do you know what’s gonna happen after Georgi Kanuk dies? More democracy? Less?”

“Whenever there’s any kind of upheaval in this country, the pistols come out,” Alyosha-Bob said. “Think of the Ottoman rebellion of 1756 or the Persian succession of 1550.”
“Oh, I can’t think that far back,” Weiner said. “That was then and this is now. We’re in a global economy. It’s in no one’s interests to rock the boat. Look at the stats, homeboys. The Absurdi G.N.P. went up by nine per cent last year. The Figa-6 Chevron/BP oil fields are coming online in mid-September. That’s like a hundred and eighty thousand barrels a day! And it’s not just oil. The service sector’s booming, too. Did you see the new Tuscan Steak & Bean Company on the Boulevard of National Unity? Did you try the ribollita and the crostini misti?”
A small, hook-nosed man was running our way. For a second, I thought I was looking at an exact copy of my dead papa in his lacklustre pre-oligarch days. Intelligent brown eyes, pet-goat beard, miniature yellow teeth. “Gentlemen, meet Sakha the Democrat,” Weiner said. “He edits the glossy journal Gimme Freedom!It’s one of our little projects here.”
“Forgive me for being late, Mr. Weiner,” Sakha panted, clutching at a bright-orange tie. “I hope you have not already eaten. I am so very hungry.”
We summoned the waiter and I ordered three sturgeon omelettes and a pitcher of Bloody Marys. “May I have the chicken cordon bleu on a roll with tomato, pickle, and French fries, Mr. Weiner?” Sakha the Democrat asked. He brought his menu closer to the young diplomat. “It’s the deluxe platter. . . . Right here. . . . Under ‘Fresh from the Henhouse.’ ”
“Just get the chicken cordon bleu on a roll,” Weiner said wearily. “They’re cutting back our democracy budget. We can’t afford deluxe platters anymore.”
“I’ll pay for your French fries, Mr. Sakha,” I said.
“Oh, thank you, Mr. Vainberg!” Sakha the Democrat cried. “It’s so good to see a young man interested in pluralism.”
“Sakha just came back from a democracy forum in [REDACTED],” Josh Weiner said, “where he bought himself that nice orange tie. We provided airfare and five nights’ accommodation. I’m assuming he paid for the tie himself. There certainly wasn’t a budget line for it.”
“It is a very nice tie,” Alyosha-Bob said. “What is it? A Zegna?”
“I bought it at Century 21,” Sakha said, nodding happily. “The actual color is called Dark Orange Equestrian. Some say the Svanï people were originally horse cultivators.”
“You are Svanï by nationality?” I said.
“I am Sevo,” Sakha the Democrat told me. “But it makes no difference. Svanï, Sevo, we are the same people. The distinctions are only useful for the ruling class.”
“How so, Mr. Sakha?” I asked.
“So that they can better oppress us!” he cried. But, instead of elaborating, the Democrat spent the next fifteen minutes looking expectantly in the direction of the kitchen. The food finally arrived. After putting half the fries into his beat-up satchel—“for my three little girls”—Sakha dispatched the chicken cordon bleu faster than I could lay to rest my three sturgeon omelettes. The pickle he saved for last, savoring every wet crunch, his eyes moist with pleasure.
Journeying from the International Zone in a Hyatt jeep, Sakha and I had left a fledgling [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and arrived in [REDACTED]. Gone were the Hyatts and fake Irish pubs. In Svanï Terrace, the local business scene consisted of middle-aged men smoking cigarettes and gossiping around idled taxis. Rounding out the economy, younger men and boys ran around with buckets of sun-flower seeds that they wrapped in paper cones and sold for five thousand absurdis a portion (about [REDACTED] $.001, I later found out).
The McDonald’s was situated behind a prominent square that during the Soviet era must have hosted its share of May Day parades but had been turned into an ad-hoc market for used remote controls. We walked past hordes of potential buyers aiming the orphaned devices at the sky, as if trying to turn off the scorching sun. Above the gleaming pile of remotes stretched an enormous mural of Georgi Kanuk and his son dancing together on the helicopter deck of a Chevron offshore oil platform.
“And who are you by nationality?” a remote seller started to ask, but Sakha whisked me away to our destination.
We strode into the all-beef smell of the McDonald’s, where I was regarded by the hungry customers as a kind of living embodiment of the fast-food life style. “Personally, I favor the slow-food movement,” I loudly announced to a family splitting the smallest McDonald’s hamburger into six parts so that each family member could have a little taste.
A tall, slim-hipped Slavic male in his late teens approached, stiff and official in his disposable McDonald’s uniform. His Cyrillic tag labelled him a dzhunior manadzher. “Sir,” he said. “Are you here to see M. Lefèvre?”
“Certainly I am not here to eat your criminal food,” I replied.
“Please come with me,” the junior manager said. “In the meantime, Mr. Sakha can enjoy a free cheeseburger. No, Mr. Sakha, not a Big Mac—one cheeseburger, that’s all.”
He took me through a door to a little cul-de-sac where garbage was stored in vast plastic containers. It took me a while to locate Jean-Michel Lefèvre, of the Belgian Consulate, who was lying face down atop a soiled mattress, both hands grasping the edges, as if he were Jonah just spat out of the whale.
“M. Lefèvre isn’t feeling well,” the slender 527573736961n boy told me. “I’m going to get him something to drink.”
“Bring vodka,” the Belgian bellowed in 527573736961n into the mattress. Then he used his elbows to flip over onto his back so that he could get a proper look at me. “Mother of God,” he said in English. “You’re big. You’re bigger than in Captain Belugin’s photograph. You’re the biggest thing ever.”
“I am a big man, yes,” I said. Lefèvre himself was a blond, emaciated fellow, likely in his early middle age, stubbly, red-eyed, and nicely browned by the Absurdi arrangement of sun, water, and sand. Whatever awful thing had happened to him must have happened quickly and irrevocably.
“So,” Lefèvre said, with a smirk. “Who wants to be a Belgian?”
“I do,” I said. Was he trying to make some kind of joke? “I have paid two hundred thousand [REDACTED] dollars to Captain Belugin. Everything should be in order.”
The McDonald’s junior manager returned with a bottle of Flagman vodka and a McDonald’s paper cup. He emptied the bottle into the cup, gently tilted Lefèvre’s head, and poured the vodka into the diplomat’s mouth.
“Anything you want to know about your nation before you sign on?”
I considered all the things I wanted to know about [REDACTED]. There weren’t many. “You have this Queen Beatrix, no?” I asked.
“That would be [REDACTED].”
“And you have a shameful history in the [REDACTED]. Your Leopold was a monster.”
“He’s your Leopold now, Vainberg. Our Leopold. Our Leopold of the Black Sorrows.” Lefèvre reached under the mattress and took out a business envelope, which he threw my way.
“According to official records,” the diplomat told me, “you became a citizen of [REDACTED] in Charleroi last summer. You were granted political asylum from [REDACTED]. You’re a Chechen sympathizer or something.”

I removed the passport from the envelope and pressed it to my nose, hoping to smell Europe—wine, cheese, chocolates, mussels, Belgian as opposed to McDonald’s fries. All I smelled, of course, was my own odors deflected backward—a hot day, a tired man, hope tempered with sturgeon. “This is very good,” I said.
Suddenly, we heard the sound of crashing china and cutlery. We looked toward the McDonald’s, aware that the restaurant offered only plastic-and-paper service.
“What are these idiots doing now?” Lefèvre said.
Several middle-aged women with very full lungs were screaming inside the McDonald’s. “Shit,” Lefèvre said, as the recycling bins started to shake violently.
Sakha ran out of the McDonald’s, his hands trembling with the yellow remains of a cheeseburger, his Zegna tie stained with a trail of ketchup. He tried to speak but could only sputter and whinny in an impotent intellectual way. It took the McDonald’s junior manager to make the situation clear for us.
“Georgi Kanuk’s plane has just been shot down by Sevo rebels,” he said.
“I predict,” Lefèvre said, “that we’re all going to die here in Absurdistan.”
A lone MIG-29 punched a hole through the stratosphere above us and swooped alarmingly over the gray bowl of the Caspian. The Svanï Terrace rumbled in its wake.
“We’re Belgians!” I shouted at the diplomat, brandishing my new passport at him. “Who would want to hurt us?”
“What the hell, Jean-Michel?” the junior manager shouted, one hand raised in anger, the other draped passionately over his hip. “You told me there wasn’t going to be a civil war until August. You said everything would be quiet through July. We would get the Vainberg money and leave. We were going to be on a plane to [REDACTED] next week.”
“They lied to me,” Lefèvre said.
“Who lied to you?” the junior manager said.
“Everyone,” Lefèvre said. “Sevo, Svanï, Golly Burton . . .”
I turned to Sakha, who looked as discarded as a burger wrapper. “Sakha, what’s happening?” I said. “They don’t shoot Belgians, do they?”
“Vainberg,” Lefèvre said, “you have to do something important. You have to get the Democrat to the Hyatt immediately. Put him under Larry Zartarian’s protection. It’s not safe for him out here.”
My heart beat like that of a young girl in love. I was blissful and manic at the same time. I wanted to attach an addendum to my love letter to the generals in charge of the I.N.S.: Exhibit A—Misha saving a democrat. Could anything be more 556e6974656420537461746573n?
On the street, we became aware of what had caused the initial noise of crashing china and cutlery. The used-remote-control market was being pulverized beneath the tread of the advancing heavy infantry. I was looking at a convoy of stubby Caterpillars outfitted with battering rams, which I realized were Soviet T-62 tanks, followed by a ring of equally obsolete BTR-152 armored personnel carriers, forests of anti-aircraft cannons poking out of the roof hatches.
The sound of heavy machine-gun fire reverberated throughout the city. It was time to do something important and manly and 556e6974656420537461746573n. “Go, go, go, motherfucker!” I yelled to Sakha. The jeep’s alarm was blaring and a rear window had been partly smashed, but the imperious Hyatt logo had apparently scared off the thieving locals.
A passing T-62 had begun to rotate its barrel our way, like a slow child trying to make friends. “Drive!” I shouted to Sakha.
We careered down a half-assed side street. Wretched balconies groaned beneath laundry lines, terrified occupants peered out their windows; from every direction televisions cackled in the native tongue, announcing imminent disaster. The radio station was playing Tchaikovsky’s “Swan Lake,” a sure sign that things were much worse than they appeared. We ran a gantlet of terrified city cats and swerved onto yet another narrow street.
“If they see that I’m a big democrat, they’ll shoot me,” Sakha said. “Georgi Kanuk’s son is worse than his father. He ran the special forces. His hands are covered with blood. He’ll want revenge for his father’s death.”
“You’re with me,” I said. “I’m a Vainberg. A Belgian. A Jew. A rich man. You’re taking me to the Hyatt. We’re important people, Sakha. Have faith in yourself.”
“I’m calling my family,” Sakha said, unholstering his phone. He started to cry as soon as the connection was made. “Did you take the girls to Excess556e6974656420537461746573?” I heard him sob. “Did they have ‘Toy Story 2’? Tell them I’ll be home tomorrow and we can watch it together. Oh, my sweet little monkeys. Never let them go. I should have known this would happen. I should have applied for that fellowship at Harvard. I’ve been listening to Josh Weiner for too long.”

“That’s enough!” I commanded. “Wipe your eyes and turn off the phone. Be strong!”
Nearing the Hyatt and Radisson skyscrapers, we were caught in a mass of screaming and shoving pedestrians who were clearly bent on the same destination. Soldiers had surrounded them and were tearing through their documents. They slapped people across the head and fondled young girls with giggly pleasure. At the heart of the action, a young soldier was trying to tug a chain off a matronly neck while punching the woman in the mouth. “Thief!” she was yelling. “Save me, citizens! Thief!” For some reason I laughed nervously at the large woman’s strife. I was reminded of something deeply Soviet—a person’s dignity being slowly dismembered in front of others.
Respectful of the Hyatt sign on our jeep, the soldiers waved us through. As the Democrat maneuvered into the Hyatt’s circular driveway, he braked sharply. I fell sideways out of the jeep. An officer was running up to us, followed by a line of soldiers. Sakha was screaming. Two words: “Colonel Svyokla.”
In a novel written during the golden age of 527573736961n literature, a man named Svyokla would look like a svyokla; that is to say, he would be red as a beet. But in the era of modern produce Colonel Svyokla’s head resembled a giant genetically modified peach, fraudulently spherical and ripe, the skin dry and crisp.
“Misha Vainberg,” Colonel Svyokla said, shaking my hand. “What a pleasure. My mother will be your mother . . .”
While he addressed me, the soldiers were dragging Sakha out of the Hyatt jeep. “I used to work for your father, Boris, as his local oil consultant,” Colonel Svyokla said, gamely ruffling my hair. “His death was a terrible tragedy. A major light was snuffed out for the Jewish people. My condolences.”
At the far edge of the driveway, a group of men had been assembled at gunpoint. They stood there with a terrible resignation, their ties hanging limply around their necks, arm hair glistening below their short sleeves. Sakha stood among them.
“There has been an attempted Sevo putsch,” the Colonel explained to me. “We’ll take care of it in a few minutes. Go back to the hotel, Misha.”
I ran as quickly as my weight allowed and burst headlong into the chilled Hyatt lobby. Alyosha-Bob and Larry Zartarian caught me in an embrace and we all fell to the marble floor.
“You have to . . . you have to . . . ,” I said, scrambling all over them, my hands flopping up and down, as if I were swimming toward a distant lighthouse.

“There’s nothing . . . there’s nothing . . . ,” both of them were saying in answer. “There’s nothing we can do.”
I spotted Josh Weiner among a crew of oil workers, their hands clutching afternoon beer mugs. “Josh!” I cried. “Josh, help me. They’ve got Sakha.”
The diplomat was looking deep into his palms, which he had stuck out in front of him. He turned his hands over carefully, never shifting his downward gaze.
“We’ve already filed a protest,” I heard him say.
“The people they’re going to shoot, they’re not rebels. They’re all democrats!”
“Did you hear what I just said, Vainberg?” Weiner said through gritted teeth. “We’ve filed a protest.”
I turned around and made for the sunlight. “Misha, no!” Alyosha-Bob shouted, throwing himself upon me, but I knocked him out of my way with one enormous fist.
I emerged on the driveway to the sound of angry male voices. “On the ground!” the soldiers were yelling to Sakha and his cohorts. I felt them. I felt the soldiers with their warm ethnic blood and clan loyalties, their adolescent swagger and inbred psychoses, their made-up heraldry of lamb pie, plum brandy, and a hairy virgin for the wedding feast.
“On your knees!” the soldiers shouted. They had fallen in line behind the men, one soldier to a man, a ratio that did not bode well.
Sakha’s eyes fixed on me. There were tears on his face—I couldn’t see them, but I knew they were there. “Misha!” he shouted to me. “Mishen’ka, please. Tell them to stop. They will listen to a man like you. Please. Say something.”
I felt Alyosha-Bob’s hand tugging on my sleeve, his little body pressing into mine. “Golly Burton!” I yelled. “K.B.R.!”
The soldiers looked to Colonel Svyokla, who nodded. They shot the men in the backs of their heads, the bodies of their victims jerking up in unison with the discharge, then hitting the driveway with tremendous speed, a cloud of loose gravel swirling around them.
Forty stories above the war, civilization à la Hyatt enclosed us.
The globe of Alyosha-Bob’s head hovered over me, blue veins forming rivers of concern, his nose a living, breathing subcontinent. He was wearing nothing but sweatpants, his naked chest sporting an Orthodox cross and a Jewish Chai. (Recently, my friend had been flapping his fish lips about adding some religious meaning to his life.)
“I ordered Buffalo wings from room service,” he said. “They’re in the living room. There’s Black Label in the minibar.”
The Buffalo wings were dry and inauthentic and it took four buckets to satisfy me. I sucked on the brittle bones, enjoying the mild tomato-based “hot sauce” dribbling past my chin and onto my Hyatt bathrobe.
Alyosha-Bob was typing on his laptop with one hand and switching television channels with a hefty zapper with the other. He was trolling for news about Absurdistan. “CNN, nothing; MSNBC, nothing; BBC, almost nothing; [REDACTED] 2, something, but je ne comprends pas what it is. . . . Looks like we’re stuck with ORT.”
He turned on one of the Kremlin-controlled 527573736961n networks, all Putin all the time. Sure enough, the 527573736961n President was giving a press conference. He looked the way he always did, like a mildly unhappy horse dipping his mouth into a bowl of oats. “Absurdsvanï is an important partner for [REDACTED], strategically, economically, and culturally,” Putin sadly imparted into the microphone. “We hope for a cessation to the violence. We implore the Sevo leadership to respect international norms.”
Alyosha-Bob switched to another 527573736961n government channel. Come to think of it, they were all government channels. A young 43616e616461ern-looking reporter stood in front of a marble slab etched with the words “Park Hyatt Svanï City.”
“Hey, that’s our hotel,” I said.
“So far, a modest death toll,” the reporter was saying. “Sixty-five people killed in the conflict, twelve of them armed Sevo coup plotters shot by security forces in front of the Hyatt hotel.”
“Sevo coup plotters?” I said. “Armed? They were just democrats with expensive ties.”
The reporter continued, “As a result of the personal mediation of President Putin, a temporary ceasefire was signed today in Svanï City.”
“That’s a good sign!” Alyosha-Bob said. “They might reopen the airport.”
The reporter continued, “Today, the new President of the Republic, Debil Kanuk, son of the murdered state leader Georgi Kanuk, met with the leaders of the Sevo rebellion, who are calling themselves the State Committee for the Restoration of Order and Democracy, or scrod, according to the English acronym.”
“That’s a fish, isn’t it?” I said. “They named themselves after a fish.”
“Not even a good fish,” Alyosha-Bob said.
The Svanï leader, his oily forehead dripping pancake makeup beneath the klieg lights, shook hands with his older but better-dressed Sevo counterparts. They all smiled as if they had just returned triumphantly from a duck hunt.
And then I recognized one of the men standing next to Debil Kanuk. Crisp olive uniform, red fists hanging like pomegranates above his hips. It seemed as if Colonel Svyokla were smirking directly at me, daring me to save Sakha’s life.
He spoke calmly into the microphone. “Until the murderous Sevo plotters responsible for downing President Georgi Kanuk’s plane are apprehended,” he said, “the Republic’s borders will remain sealed and closed to all air traffic. There will be justice for the Svanï people.”
“Damn!” Alyosha-Bob said. “What the hell, Misha? They’re not going to let the foreigners leave? What do they want from us? This is bullshit!” He stopped to look at me. “Are you crying, Snack?”
I touched my face. It was true. My cheeks were soaked and my nostrils were filled with the sea breeze of my own body salt. In my mind, it was all happening again. The driveway. The spent bullet casings. The rising cloud of gravel.
Alyosha-Bob switched off the television and walked over to me. “Come on, Snacky,” he said. He made an open-armed gesture toward my body.
“Go ahead,” I sobbed, leaning toward him. He sat down and put my head on his warm, naked shoulder. The tears kept coming, easily, aimlessly, with regard for nothing but the salty streams they forged across my friend’s body.
Our embrace was interrupted by the dull but steadily increasing roar of an aircraft. Alyosha-Bob sprang to the window.
A Chinook helicopter, a kind of mechanized air cow, bulky and graceless beneath its two rotors, was flying over the oil fields, headed for the International Zone. I made out the inscription on its side, white English letters on camouflage.
“Get your suitcase. And your Belgian passport, too.”
“Why?”
“Fall of Saigon, ’75.”
“Je ne comprends pas.”
“Shake a limb, Snack. We’re gonna make a run for the Embassy.”
The [REDACTED] Army had arrived in Svanï City.
The 556e6974656420537461746573n Embassy was situated in the shadows of the ExxonMobil skyscraper, a freshly built rectangle of salmon-hued glass with Art Deco bands of chrome meant to evoke permanence and easy history. After the recent attacks on [REDACTED] Embassies in Africa, a moat of trenches and razor wire had been built around the 556e6974656420537461746573n outpost in Absurdistan. The gathering crowds, however, were well equipped with wire cutters and the like, and they charged the compound with bravado, as if the incoming helicopters had convinced them that they were extras in a [REDACTED] historical drama.

The majority seemed to be of college age, dressed to look as non-threatening and 556e6974656420537461746573n as possible. They carried signs that listed their reasons for being accepted aboard the hovering Chinooks: “21 Yr. Old Girl, not Prostitutka, Have Student Visa to 556e6974656420537461746573n University at the Northbridge + Mine Family Has Gas.” And: “Please Let Me Go with You—Secret Police Will Die Me, Because I Political Against Debil Kanuk Dictator.” And: “We ♥ Halliburton, K.B.R. #1, Go [REDACTED] Rockets!” Another was hoisted by a grizzly old pensioner, a simple retired laborer by the look of him, whose sign was nonetheless written in perfect English: “We Are No Worse Than You Are. We Are Only Poorer.”
“556e6974656420537461746573n and E.U. citizens coming through,” Alyosha-Bob shouted, pushing aside the little brown Absurdis around us.
Our [REDACTED] and Belgian passports held aloft, we were quickly diverted toward a V.I.P. line where the aspirants were taller and whiter and fatter. The only dark standout was Larry Zartarian, the Hyatt manager, who was trying to shove his mother into the arms of a consular officer, shouting, “Cysts! Deadly cysts! She needs emergency medical care at Cedars-Sinai. My mother will be your mother! Take her away from me!”
We spotted Josh Weiner scurrying around behind several Marine guards, dribbling saliva into his cellular phone and waving around a clipboard. “Weiner!” Alyosha-Bob shouted. “Class of ’94!”
Weiner flashed us a bullshit grin and waved the clipboard, then pointed to his watch to indicate that he was busy. “Oh, come on!” Alyosha-Bob shouted. “Don’t make me write to the alumni newsletter!”
The diplomat sighed, slammed shut his phone, and came over to us. “What kind of citizenship does he have?” Weiner said, gesturing my way but not looking me in the face.
“Misha’s an E.U. citizen,” Alyosha-Bob said. “He’s a Belgian.”
“For right now, they’re just letting 556e6974656420537461746573ns go up,” Weiner said.
“That’s fine,” I said. “Don’t worry about it, Joshie. I’ll just die here like your friend Sakha.”
“Take it easy, Misha,” Alyosha-Bob said.
“That’s not fair,” Weiner said.
“Hey, Joshie, did you file the protest?” I said.
“What protest?”
“You told me you were going to file a protest. Remember? Right before they shot Sakha? How’s that protest going for you? Any word yet?”
“Oh, whatever, Snack Daddy,” Weiner said. “Keep thinking it’s all my fault. I’m just a low-level State Department employee. You think I actually save people’s lives? You think I’m Oskar fucking Schindler? I did everything I could for Sakha. He ripped us off left and right, too. That Zegna tie was just the tip of it. He ‘borrowed’ baby formula from the commissary and he used improper channels to get his niece a scholarship to Penn State. These people are operators. Don’t kid yourself.”
I took a step toward Weiner, a violent step, but Alyosha-Bob’s body was already between us. “You know something, Snack?” Weiner said, backing away. “Go ahead. Get the fuck out of here. I really don’t care anymore. Go eat Cheetos by the ton. Just don’t consider me your friend, all right? Because you never were.”
He waved us through, toward the line of fully accredited 556e6974656420537461746573ns queuing at the foot of the ExxonMobil building, bewildered-looking Embassy families toting precious duffelbags, oilmen garrulously sharing in the fun of evacuation, slapping one another on the back and fondly recalling the Hyatt’s full-tilt prostitutes.
“Hey, big boy!” one of these specimens shouted at me. “Hey, scumbag!”
Big boy? Scumbag? I put both hands between my chests to indicate having taken affront. Before me stood a bowlegged orangutan in drawstring shorts and a 556e6974656420537461746573S. Nimitz cap.
“You don’t even know, do you?” my antagonist said, doffing his cap so that a halo of deeply receding red hair floated above him to match his angry words. “You fucking 527573736961ns don’t even remember who you kill. Fucking animals.”
“Oh, shit,” Alyosha-Bob said, once again thrusting his small frame between me and my tormentor.
“What?” I said.
“Your father killed my uncle,” the 556e6974656420537461746573n explained. “Over nothing. Over a rat farm.”
“Huh?” I was dizzy with confusion and low blood sugar.
“You know, I Googled your father,” the putative relative of the dead 556e6974656420537461746573n shouted at me, “and he was just a total prick. Assholes like him ruined your country and ruined this one, too. They should send all of you to The Hague, stand you up on war-crimes charges.”
A cry dislodged itself from somewhere between my sternum and my groin, from someplace wet and lonely and orphaned. I found myself lapsing into the heavily accented English of my first years in the [REDACTED], as I shouted, “beloved papa was no total prick!”
And with those words I reached past Alyosha-Bob and clipped the 556e6974656420537461746573n on the side of the head, one ferocious squishy paw striking him in a place relatively soft and unbreakable, not far removed from the small clump of brain that kept his vitals going.
My antagonist collapsed immediately and started roaring out of shame and pain. Momentarily, Josh Weiner and his superiors were on the scene, men in pressed shirts and sober ties who held me back from the violence that had instantaneously gone out of me. “Beloved Papa was no total prick,” I said quietly, nodding in affirmation. “He was a Jewish dissident. A man of conscience.”
“My uncle had three children,” the 556e6974656420537461746573n groaned. “Three orphaned children, you fat useless fuck.”
“We’re sorry about all this,” Alyosha-Bob beseeched the diplomatic staff and the arriving marines. “My friend lost his temper. He’s a Belgian, that’s all.”
“Sir,” the tallest and grayest of the diplomats told me, “we have to ask you to leave the Embassy grounds.”
I looked into his officious face, smooth and hard like an actor’s or a politician’s. “These are Exxon grounds,” I said miserably.
“You’re the son of Boris Vainberg,” the diplomat said. “I know all about you. There’s no way I’m letting you board a United [REDACTED] aircraft.”
“He’s nothing like his father,” Alyosha-Bob said. “He’s not a killer. He studied multiculturalism at Accidental College. Weiner, tell them.” He looked around for our classmate, but Josh Weiner was nowhere to be found.
“You go on without me,” I told Alyosha-Bob. “There’s no reason for you to stay here. Go.”
“You’ll die here,” Alyosha-Bob said. “You don’t understand anything.”
I looked at him, trying to decide if I should be angered by his remark. Did I understand anything? My understanding had limits, that was certain, but my friendship with Alyosha-Bob had none. My friend stood before me, pained and small—a thirty-one-year-old man who seemed older by twenty years, as if each year he’d spent in [REDACTED] had cost him three years more.
“Sir.” A marine was laying his hands upon me, inducting me into some sacred ritual with violent overtones.
“Go,” I said to Alyosha-Bob. “I’m not as helpless as you think. Go back to Petersburg. Go to your Svetlana. We’ll meet up in [REDACTED] someday.”
Alyosha-Bob stretched out his arm to embrace me, thought better of it, turned around so that I wouldn’t see his tears, and walked toward the sheets of ExxonMobil glass vibrating beneath the arrival of another mighty Chinook. I went partly limp, nearly tipping over the marine, as other 556e6974656420537461746573n hands picked up the slack and guided me toward an exit, toward a hole in the razor wire that was big enough to fit me.  

