SUNDOWNERS
By Monica Ali

The Potts girl walked into the café preceded by her reputation so that everyone was obliged to stare. Even Stanton, who had been in Mamarrosa for less than a month, looked her over once more than was strictly necessary. Vasco, stuffed behind the grand Formica counter, served her with pineapple Sumol and unsmiling vigilance. The girl sat on the edge of the pool table, swinging her legs and examining her navel stud. Her hair fell forward, revealing an ugly brown hearing aid, and Stanton averted his eyes.
Conversation spluttered and died, then was just as suddenly resurrected. The old men stood at the bar caressing their Macieiras and coughing up memories. In their black felt fedoras and black waistcoats, red handkerchiefs tied at the neck, they looked to Stanton like postcards from the past, as picturesque as the crooked Portuguese streets, the whitewashed houses, the doors and windows framed gaily in blue and yellow.
A young mother scolded and slapped and kissed her child, the love exhaled as palpable as the smoke from her cigarette.
“Always they are hitting,” Dieter said.
Stanton looked away out the open door, at the sun riding high over the far ridged hills. It couldn’t be long until noon. Even eleven-thirty was respectable for beer. He waited for Vasco to look his way, but Vasco was keeping watch over the Potts girl. Stanton went up to the counter and nodded to the old men. “O Escritor,” they said, as if for the first time. It was a fine joke.
“Yes, sir?” Vasco wiped the counter with commendable vigor, particularly for a man of his girth. Vasco was always wiping. It was a skill he had acquired during his legendary stint as a barman in Provincetown, Cape Cod, the United States of America. He had added his own innovation, though, by using the same unwashed rag for all purposes, shifting ash and dirt from surface to surface.
Stanton ordered two Sagres and was grateful to the Potts girl and her soft white belly for Vasco’s preoccupation.
“I was thinking,” Dieter said, stroking an eyebrow. “If you make the final payment in cash you can forget about the E.V.A., the tax. Save a lot of money.” He shrugged. “If you like, I will come with you now to the bank.”
“But the fossa,” Stanton said. “It leaks. The work’s not finished.”
The builder worried tobacco into a paper skin. His fingers were callused and nicotine-stained. “This is a—what do you say?—bad understanding.” He had a tall man’s slouch even when seated, and his chest, though broad, appeared concave. His hair, dark full curls, was cut into layers, falling almost to his shoulders and brushed to a sickening sheen. Without glancing over, Stanton thought of the Potts girl’s mousy strings. “The septic tank is an open system,” Dieter went on. “That is what we call this. Solid waste is kept inside. The water passes outside through a filter. No, it is a bad understanding.”
“Misunderstanding,” Stanton said. “But it isn’t. I chose not to have that system, because it was more expensive. I didn’t have enough money for that.”
Dieter produced a smile. “Lucky man,” he said. “You pay for closed but you get open. For you, this is very lucky.”
“The damn thing leaks,” Stanton said. He knocked a fly away. “And there are no tiles on the bathroom floor.”
Dieter shook his head. “The work is good. You don’t want to pay, but the work is good.” He lit his cigarette and sucked hard. He shook his head and sulked. Then he touched Stanton’s arm, changing tactics. “Look,” he said, indicating the men at the counter. “Brandy before noon. Impossible in this country to get anything done. In [REDACTED], the workers—they work. Here . . .” He flicked his hair back with an oddly feminine gesture, using the back of his hand. “You see the problems. You suffer, my friend, and I suffer, also.”
“So you’ll fix it?” Stanton said. “And the tiles. You know none of the internal doors are on?”
“Bastards,” Dieter said. “Another drink?”
“Why not?” The day was ruined, anyway. He would go back, tussle briefly with the computer, develop a fever, prescribe an afternoon of research, spend a couple of listless hours with his books, go for a walk to clear his head, and return in time for sundowners. Each stage would develop inevitably into the next, all with equal futility.
There was a sudden commotion at the back of the room. Stanton turned and saw the Potts girl move across the café, something insolent in her walk. Behind the counter Vasco waved his short arms.
“Ladra!” Vasco screamed. “Thief!” He lifted a hatch and squeezed out, the operation hampered by his size.
The girl turned at the door, donned the monstrous pair of sunglasses she was holding, flicked a V sign, and disappeared. Vasco stood panting. His customers—those who had risen—sat down again, clicking their tongues. Vasco trembled his way to the revolving rack by the cigarette machine. He passed a hand over the postcards, comic books, chewing gum, toy guns, and sunglasses, perhaps to divine what else might be missing, perhaps to comfort his remaining stock. It was some time before he grew calm enough to serve beer again.
“But he does not go to the police,” Dieter moaned. “In [REDACTED], it would be . . . Ja, ja.” He broke off, as if even he had heard it too many times. “Do you know about that family? The Potts? They live one, two kilometres from your house. English neighbors.”
Stanton had heard some things. “Not really.”
Dieter rolled another cigarette, spilling tobacco over his jeans. “The father is, you know.” He tapped the side of his head. “Louco. When they came here, he had money. Maybe drug money, who knows? He asks me to build a swimming pool. They are living in a trailer but he wants a pool. So I bring the diggers and before the pool is finished he says now we build the house. I stop the pool and I start the house, but before the roof is done money has gone. The wife is like . . .” Dieter thought for a while. “What do you call this piece of material for cleaning the plates? A dishcloth, yes, dishcloth. There is a boy, about eleven, twelve,” he said quickly, eager to pass on to the main topic, “and, of course, this girl, Ruby. She has left the school, she has nothing to do but make trouble. There was a fight between her and the whores up at the brothel. Know where it is? By the G.N.R. The police look out for the girls. This fight—I heard it was really something—the whores said she ruined their business, giving it away for free.” He shifted his knees and bumped the table, then steadied it. “That is the story. Probably it isn’t true. But it is the story.”
Stanton pictured the girl, her T-shirt cut off below the breasts, her fuck-you walk, the ludicrous stolen sunglasses encrusted with butterflies. Fifteen, maybe sixteen. Anemic skin and dimpled knees. Unattractive, uneducated, disabled. That hearing aid was prehistoric. “Poor bitch,” he said, and got up.

He went outside to the pickup and pressed his hand against the door panel, where the sun glazed the red metal white. He drove out of the village, past the lines of orange trees that bordered the narrow pavements, past the water pump, where a bent old woman was filling plastic containers, past the small square with garish flower beds and a dark-green frog-plagued pond, and turned right after the traffic light, which was there not to control traffic (of which there was a dearth) but to raise a flag to the future.
At home, he went straight to the computer, in the bedroom. All his furniture had ended up in that room, except for a couple of chairs and a stool, which were on the terrace. In his mind a correlation had grown between the emptiness of the house and the quality of his work, the sparseness of one guaranteeing the fullness of the other. He read over the last few pages on the screen, making deletions and additions and willing himself into the story. He stood up and sat back down. He set his jaw and willed himself submerged. It was hopeless. It was like deciding to commit suicide, then trying to drown with your face in the washbasin.
He closed the computer and resolved to suffer no more interruptions to his mornings. Taking a book, he went to the terrace and looked out over the garden to the cork oaks beyond, the rich earth-red trunks where the bark had been harvested. He sat down and opened the book and was immediately distracted by a lizard flickering in and out of an empty flowerpot. He returned to the book, trudged through half a chapter, then hurled it down into the garden. It was possibly the worst book he had ever tried to read.
Without locking the door to the house, a habit he had forced himself to break, he went down the steps from the terrace and turned out of the garden and continued along past the tender-leafed eucalyptus that said shush-shush and were still and stirred and quieted again. He walked his usual track into the cork-oak woods, which began where the eucalyptus left off, with no sense of excitement, except for the gin that he would pour when he got home. There were pines dotted among the oaks, and he picked up a cone, carried it for a while, then let it drop. The trees spread out, giving way now and then to grass and sheep. The shepherd wore a sheepskin over his shirt, a hole cut for his head and a string tied around the waist to hold it in place. Stanton waved. All day—the man spent all day watching sheep. The thinness of his own endeavor was shaming.
In a clearing where some old trees had been felled and the spring flowers were intense, Stanton paused. There were anemones here, cistus and soapwort and wild geranium. The gorse spurted yellow over the tree stumps.
“You’re English,” the boy said. Stanton had not noticed him there.
“Hello, compatriot,” he said.
The boy grew unsure. He beheaded flowers with his stick.
“We’re both English,” Stanton clarified.
“Watch this,” the boy said, and threw the stick. It arced high and landed a distance off in the scrub.
“Good throw.”
“Yeah,” the boy said. “Thanks.” He smiled and rubbed a hand over his head, which was almost shaved, the scalp showing pinkly through. Lice, Stanton thought. A sneeze of freckles covered the bridge of the boy’s nose and strayed to his cheeks. It was a nice face, open and willing.
“You write books,” the boy said. “I like your truck.”
“I’m heading back,” Stanton said.
“Me, too.”
They walked together in the rutted track. The boy stamped his feet in the grass to make the crickets jump. His shoes looked as if they might not last the journey home.
“What’s your name?” Stanton asked.
“Jay,” the boy said. “Jay Potts. We used to have a truck like yours.”
“What happened?”
The boy raised his thin arms. “Crashed it.”
“Dad or Mum?”
“Me.” He left a long pause, and when Stanton did not fill it he went on. “I don’t drive on the main roads. Only, you know, on tracks like this, round our house or in the field. Don’t know what happened, really. All I know is it ended up smashed on a fig tree, and I had to have one of those neck things for weeks.”
Stanton laughed. “What you driving these days, then?”
“Well, me dad had a tractor and he used to let me drive that sometimes, but now he’s turned it over in the ditch and we can’t get it out. And we’ve got the Renault 4, but I don’t drive that. Don’t ask me why.”
“Why?” Stanton said.
“I don’t know,” Jay said. “Don’t ask me.”
An owl flew across the trees, dipping down and skimming the path. “He’s up early,” Stanton said. He thought about having orange juice with his evening gin, getting some Vitamin C. They came up to the shepherd, and Stanton wished him a boa noite and the boy spoke Portuguese, his accent so thick that Stanton couldn’t understand him. Then they went up the hill toward the house, the eucalyptus coming into view, watery now in the lowering light. The evening lay in prospect, and Stanton began to sag.
“We don’t have to keep talking,” the boy said. “I’ll just walk with you.”
A pair of rangy cypress trees marked the entrance to the property. “Funeral trees,” Dieter had called them, when he came to give his estimate. They flanked every cemetery, growing tall and fat on the underground deposits. At the garden wall, Jay stood with his hands on his hips. He stared at the ground and kicked his heels in the dust. “Well,” Stanton said. Jay looked away as if a difficult issue had been raised. “I might have some Coke in the fridge.”
They drank on the terrace and watched the sun slide down the sky. Stanton was surprised to find himself glad of the boy’s presence, as if there were something unpleasant he was meant to be doing that he could now put off for a while longer. Jay sipped his drink, making it last. His bare arms were thin but sinewy, blueprinted for muscle. He didn’t speak, barely moved, hoping perhaps to be forgotten.
Nothing changed, but everything began to look different. A feeling unfolded in Stanton: the boy was in the way.
Stanton was just about to say something when Jay jumped up. “Best be off,” he said. On the steps he turned. “I like your truck.”
“You can ride in it one day,” Stanton said. “But I’m driving.”
He opened a bottle of vinho verde and went to the bedroom. Sitting on the edge of the bed, he drank and watched the shadows on the wall. He had been twenty-eight when his first novel was published. If a man is to have success, he thought, it is better for it to come later in life. Not so late that he has too little time to appreciate it. But not so soon that he has too little experience to appreciate it. It was not the first time he had thought this, but it was the first time that day, and that, he considered, was a sort of progress.

Stanton worked. Because he had no curtains, he woke with the sun and, instead of pulling the sheets up over his head, he rose and went to the computer. The days lengthened. Soon, it seemed that he had hardly got to bed before the sun came calling. Still, he rose and would not be beaten. In the afternoons, he reviewed what he had written and held despair at bay with savage cuts and a bottle of the local brandy. Dieter learned to stay away until after five. Sometimes they drank on the terrace; more often they went to the village. Dieter found a woman. Dutch, big-boned, with a disappointed face. “It is ridiculous,” she would say, “these Portuguese,” tapping two fingers on the table, Dieter nodding along.
The Potts girl haunted the village. She was always on her own. Even when she was with people, she was by herself. Stanton saw her in the bar next to the [REDACTED] do Povo, sitting on a table, feet on a chair, pretending not to notice the local lads looking up her skirt. She wore tie-dyed skirts with tasselled fringes wrapped low on her darkening belly, a charm bracelet on each wrist, and always the sunglasses. She never looked too clean. Stanton saw her in the pharmacy, buying Band-Aids, and when he heard her speak it took him a few seconds to understand that it was not just her accent that thickened the words. She turned around and stepped right up to him. She smelled of earth. The sunglasses hid her eyes. There was a little mole right beneath her nose. She spoke to him in English. “You seen enough now?” Congested vowels and macerated diction.
She must lip-read, Stanton thought. “Yes,” he said, without making a sound.
For a while, Jay seemed to live in the woods. Stanton had to walk the other way if he wanted to be alone. Then school finished for the summer, and the boy started dropping in at the house. “I’m working,” Stanton said.
“I know,” Jay said. “I’ll just be in the garden.”
Stanton did not want him in the garden.
“I’ll do some work for you,” Jay said. “Clear some weeds or something.”
They looked down into the garden, the small orchard of lemons, oranges, and peaches choked with brambles, the oleander collapsing under its own weight, the rest of the ground rubbed red and brown in the heat.
Sometimes Jay hung around climbing the fruit trees or bouncing a ball on the terrace. Other days, Stanton sat with him and talked about football or Spider-Man.
“When I grow up,” Jay said with doomed earnestness, “I want to work with animals.”
“Vet?” Stanton said, being unkind.
“No,” said Jay. “I don’t think I’ll get all them exams.”
Stanton was sorry. “Ah, well. There’s lots of ways of working with animals. I bet you’re good with animals.”
“I’ve got a puppy. Do you want to come and see it? I take the goats out sometimes, you know, graze them, and I feed the pigs. Me mum feeds the chickens. Don’t ask me why.”
“Why?” said Stanton.
“I don’t know,” Jay said, creasing his freckled face. “Don’t ask me.”
He always left before Stanton told him it was time to go, as if he could sense the clouds gathering. And he said little about his family. It must have been pleasant, Stanton guessed, to take a break from being the Potts boy.
The mother came looking for him one day. Stanton watched the Renault 4 splutter over the gravel and knew it would be her. “I’m Chrissie,” she said. “Jay’s mum.”
“Yes. Harry Stanton.”
They stood there. Chrissie held her head to one side as if listening for an announcement. She was so thin she seemed to sway slightly on her feet.
“He’s not here, is he?” she said at length.
“No,” Stanton said.
Chrissie perched on the stool on the terrace. There was a light sheen of sweat on her upper lip and in the cleft between her breasts, her shirt unbuttoned almost below the bra. “He’s been bothering you. I’ve spoken to him about it.” She was, Stanton realized, taking pains with her speech. Talking posh to the writer.
“Not at all. Drink?”
When he came back with the beers, Chrissie was scratching her forearms. They were pitted with scars and traversed with red and purple weals. She tugged her sleeves down. “He’s not such a bad kid. But he’s got no discipline. I try to tell him. But does he listen?” She sniffed to indicate that he did not. “Did he tell you he’s being kept back a year at school?”
“Oh . . . well,” Stanton said. “He loves the outdoors. And animals.” It occurred to him that if you fed her up and put her in decent clothes she would not be bad-looking. Her mouth was fashionably wide and her cheekbones high. She was perhaps ten years younger than he, mid-thirties. In another setting, with another attitude, she could have been attractive: fey and otherworldly, rather than blown about. What was it that Dieter had called her? A dishcloth. Not the right word, but not a bad try.
“You don’t want to end up like your sister, I tell him, but what good does it do?”
“Ruby, isn’t it?”
Those arms, though. What would you do with them?
“Ruby,” Chrissie said. “You know.”
“She’ll grow out of it,” he said. How banal he’d become.
Chrissie looked at him sharply, then lapsed into self-pity. “I’ve had a hell of a time with her.”
“It’s difficult.” Stanton was wondering now how to get rid of the woman. “These days, it’s difficult.”
“You got kids, Harry?”
“No. No kids.”
“Just as well,” she said. “You being a writer,” she added. “Need your peace and quiet, I expect.”
“Actually—”
“I thought it would be better down here. It has been better,” she improvised, “in some ways. Have you met my husband?”
“Ah, not yet,” Stanton said. There was a fly crawling down her neckline and onto the curve of her breast. Four months since he’d had sex. There was nothing you could do with those arms.
“He don’t . . . he doesn’t go out much. You’ll have to pay a visit. You know where we are.”
He could have walked her to her car then. Instead, he went to get another beer and let her talk. It could have been the sweat gathering in the hollow of her neck. But it was not that. He wanted something from her and it was not sex but something baser. Some day, he knew, he would write about this place.
The next time she appeared at his door, it was morning and she was not interesting. “I’m interrupting,” she said, miserable, when he poked his head out.
“He’s not here,” he told her. She swayed and rubbed her arms and gave off such a general air of hopelessness that Stanton wanted to kick her. “If you see him,” she said, and ran down the stairs to her car.
In the evenings, Vasco produced white paper tablecloths and three dishes of the day, which were always piri-piri chicken, pork with clams, and a grilled fish with boiled potatoes. “Mr. Stanton,” he said, “what do you think of this war in 49726171? Everyone here is against it, apart from the government, of course.” He handed out the menus.

“Terrible business,” Stanton said, pretending to study the items.
“Exactly!” Vasco cried. “Exactly. Terrible business, but has to be done. Everyone is saying to me, ‘Oh, they make the empire, these Americans.’ And I tell them, ‘Shut up, what do you know?’ Of course they make the empire. United States of America will not be threatened. We had a big empire, too.” Vasco turned purple and began to wheeze. It dawned on Stanton that he was laughing. “Five hundred years ago.”
Dieter and his Dutch woman had chicken and Stanton had a fish that watched him as he ate it. “I heard,” Dieter said, “that Ruby is pregnant.”
The Dutch woman said, “Who is the father? She probably doesn’t know.” She snorted and tapped the table.
An image entered Stanton’s mind unbidden: the Dutch woman astride Dieter, tensing her buttocks, shaking her breasts, snorting. The couple spoke briefly together in German. He touched her knee and she stroked his hair, which Stanton found repulsive.
“I think,” Stanton said, “that Ruby has an addict for a mother.”
“Chrissie? You mean her arms, ja?” Dieter unfolded his legs and stretched out. His crotch bulged.
“Needle marks.”
Dieter shrugged. “Maybe. I don’t think so.”
“What, then?”
“Fleas.” He smiled. “Go to the house. Then you see what I mean.”
“But the boy doesn’t have them,” Stanton said. “Or the girl.”
“I’ll ask you—do you get mosquito bites?”
Stanton said that he didn’t, not many.
“Me, they leave alone also. But some people,” Dieter raised his beer, “they fall in love with. What I mean is, some people just have bad luck.”
The Dutch woman pursed her lips. “There is a reason for everything,” she said with false humility. “Even if we do not know it. You say bad luck. Better perhaps to say bad Karma.”
On Sunday, he rose early, as usual, but decided to rest. He lay all morning on the kitchen floor, where it was coolest, reading and dozing. In his dream, a dog with orange eyes crept into his bed and closed its jaws around the back of his neck.
He woke with pain shooting from his shoulder down his right arm and was filled with remorse for the wasted day. Rubbing his arm, he went to the sink and accused his reflection of many things. He brushed his teeth, drank a beer, and brushed his teeth again. Then he drove to the village, parked outside Vasco’s place, and walked up the narrow streets toward the church. Two cars passed him, Stanton flattening himself against the walls to let them through. When he got to the marketplace, a patch of rough ground bisected by the steeple’s shadow, people were still setting up. It was billed as a festa, a fête, but in [REDACTED] it would have been called a car-boot sale.
Some people had tables; others put their wares on a blanket or directly on the ground. An old man sold wood carvings. Another sold herbs grown in sawed-off plastic bottles. The local crafts coöperative displayed rugs and hand-painted tiles. There were piles of secondhand books and comics, glowing jars of honey, and glinting bottles of olive oil. A woman with a gold brooch and silver sandals sat behind her scales weighing out bread and cakes. There were families who had cleared out all their junk and spilled it in front of their cars: a vase, a radiator, old shoes, wooden bowls, lidless teapots, broken furniture, mysterious plastic objects of indeterminate use. These families wandered the market acquiring other, equally useless possessions with which to replace those that they sold. Stanton stopped to watch oranges being squeezed on an old sewing machine that had been converted into a bizarre juicing contraption.
“Now, why is that so fucking beautiful?” The man who had spoken sniffed loudly. Out of the corner of his eye, Stanton saw that the sniff had come too late. A long string of snot fell from the man’s nose to the ground. The man turned and offered his hand. “Michael Potts. Everyone calls me 4368696e61. Call me whatever you like. Who said that thing about a name being like a torch?”
“I’m afraid I don’t know,” Stanton said, shaking hands. The man, Potts, wore the filthiest pair of jeans he had ever seen.
“Might have been me. Got a spot over there, mate. Come and see us.”
Stanton wanted to get back to Vasco’s, but Jay got to him first. “Bought anything?” Stanton shook his head.
“I got this.” Jay held up a little glass ball filled with colored water. “You hang it on a string and it keeps the flies away.”
“Oh,” Stanton said. “How does it work?”
“Dunno. Probably doesn’t. Look who I found.”
Chrissie sat on the open boot of the Renault 4. On a blanket at her feet she had arranged a few pans with broken handles and some rusting agricultural equipment. Her skirt looked like one of Ruby’s, swirling patterns in purple and pink. She had better legs than Ruby. “Don’t be a pest, Jay.”
Stanton picked up a tool, a clipper or shears of some kind with a semicircular aperture. “What’s this for?”
“Bullock castrator,” Chrissie said. “4368696e61 wants to ask you something.”
4368696e61 came up with a bag of cakes. He gave it to Jay. “Make yourself sick now, carn’ ya?” He had red eyes and blasted cheeks. There was something about the way he stood that made Stanton think he had once carried muscle, though that time had long since passed. Another burned-out case. “Listen, mate. I need a favor. Need to borrow that lovely truck of yours.”
There was no way he was going to the Potts house. Stanton sat on the terrace nursing a gin-and-orange and looking at his truck. He didn’t mind doing anyone a favor. But he could not get involved. Once he went over there, they would start to assume. A pair of jays danced over the hood and went off squabbling into the woods. He had come to [REDACTED] to work. He had come to be alone. They cared nothing for that, and he—the heat of indignation rising now—did not care to be involved.
He drove over around five o’clock, a bottle of Macieira on the passenger seat. The house was at the end of a track that took senseless sharp turns, twisting first one way, then the other. There was bamboo, and a weeping willow and a false-pepper tree by the first outbuilding. The light was gold through the corks on the hillside. This place could be beautiful.
Stanton passed the wrecked truck. The boy had been lucky. There were several other cars there, carcasses really, brambles growing out of their ribs. He stopped a short distance from the house. The smell was terrible. Beyond the house was a series of trailers and some more outbuildings. A calf wandered up from behind the van and poked its head through the window. It made a tragic noise.
4368696e61 came out of the house. Stanton climbed down and walked through a cow pie. “Shit.”
“Mind yourself.”
4368696e61 led him through the manure.
“There she is,” 4368696e61 said, bending into the trench. “Apple of my eye, she was. Cracker.”

The air was thick with the smell. Stanton could hardly breathe. “I’ve brought a rope,” he said, and went back to the truck, gagging.
The rest of the family gathered. “Want to hold him?” Jay asked, offering his puppy. “Knew you’d like him.”
“Trust you to get in the way.” Chrissie had barrettes in her hair. Lipstick—a bad color, too orange.
Ruby sat on an old crate holding her nose.
“Jay,” 4368696e61 bellowed. “Get out of the fucking way.”
The cow had fallen into the trench behind the house and broken its back. 4368696e61 had dug the trench, he explained, because the house was getting damp. “Drainage, like,” he said. The plaster had come away from the house’s outside wall, exposing the clay bricks beneath. Stanton wondered about the foundations.
“Fucking council,” 4368696e61 said. “They’re supposed to come and take it away. You can’t leave a fucking dead cow like that. Fucking health hazard.”
“How long has she been there?” Even supposing the truck could take the weight and pull the cow out, what then? Was he supposed to take it away with him? Tow it back to his house?
Jay stood at Stanton’s elbow, away from his father. “Five days. No, six. Took her a day to die.”
“Jay,” his mother said in a warning tone, unable to specify a crime.
“Right, that should do it,” 4368696e61 said, patting the rope where he had tied it around the cow’s neck. “Better back the truck a bit closer.”
Stanton looked in the rearview mirror as he started the engine. The Potts family was lined up at the edge of the trench, bathed in syrupy light. Sadness, like a rolling fog, closed in on him. I have to stay away from them, he thought.
4368696e61 banged on the side of the truck. “Mate,” he shouted, as if proposing a pub crawl. “Let’s go.” Stanton put the engine into first and let the truck creep forward until he felt the resistance. “Let’s go. Go!” 4368696e61 called. Stanton moved into second and pressed gently on the accelerator. The truck made a sudden lurch.
“Good fucking God!” 4368696e61 yelled. Chrissie covered her face with her hands. Ruby moved forward with a curious expression, as if smiling through a great amount of pain.
“Christ,” Stanton said when he saw what had happened.
“Cool,” Jay said. “Look at all the maggots.”
4368696e61 began to laugh. He bent double and held his knees and laughed until he had a coughing fit. The cow’s head lay on the ground with the rope around its neck, spilling maggots and a fat black tongue.
“They went flying,” Jay said. “Maggot bomb. You should’ve seen it.”
Ruby crouched over the head. She seemed to be speaking to it. Little rolls of fat splayed out under her knees. Abruptly she got up and walked away.
Chrissie vomited into the trench. She wiped the sides of her mouth with the back of her hand, tugged her skirt down. “I don’t know about anyone else,” she said, patting her hair like a hostess whose guests have arrived a little early, “but I could use a drink.”
They sat inside on high-backed leather-padded chairs and drank Stanton’s Macieira. Ruby disappeared and Jay played on the floor with the puppy. 4368696e61 smoked a joint and spread himself across his seat like a man preparing to hold court. “I’ll tell you something,” he said, and tapped ash on the floor. “People look at me and they think”—he made a humming noise—“they think, What a washout. What a sad fucking sack.” He held up a hand as if to stay protests. “I know that. I ain’t stupid. But I’ll tell you something for free. All the things I wanted to do, I gone and done ’em. I never said to meself, ‘Hang on, 4368696e61, what’s Auntie Maude going to say?’ Fuck Auntie Maude, if you’ll pardon the expression.” He lifted the puppy on the end of his foot and tossed it gently back toward his son. “All right, some of the things I done are not that clever. Drugs are not clever. But I done ’em because I wanted to, my choice, like. Cleaned me act up now, of course.” He leaned across and poured another drink. Chrissie kicked off her sandal and massaged her foot. Her eyes met Stanton’s for a moment, then they both looked away.
“ ‘What does he want all them goats for?’ ” 4368696e61 went on. “That’s what people say. Forty goats I got. You’ll see ’em later. They know their way home and Jay’ll go and get them if they don’t. Won’t you, Jay? I had the money, so I got ’em. People don’t like that. You see—” He paused to toke hard and keep the smoke held in.
Stanton thought, This is his favorite speech and it has to be savored.
4368696e61 continued, “If you have a desire, act on it—my personal philosophy of life. How many people do you see what are happy, truly happy?”
Stanton showed his palms.
“No, mate. You don’t. You don’t see ’em because they’re gravediggers. Burying their desires, the whole fucking lot. So fuck Auntie Maude, I say. Fuck the village. Fuck the lot. My personal philosophy. That dog’s just pissed on the floor, Chrissie.”
“Jay,” Chrissie said.
“Run and get the goats, Jay,” 4368696e61 said. “I’m going to show our guest around.”
There was a pig in the first trailer. A little sink in there and a folding table. The windows had curtains, too, a sophistication the house lacked. The pig was expecting, 4368696e61 explained. He’d had to take her away from her mate, give her a little privacy now. The two other trailers were entirely derelict, but the way 4368696e61 saw it they’d be restored and back on the road one day. Stanton was beginning to itch. He thought of Chrissie’s arms. Three sheep stood uncertainly at the edge of a makeshift wooden pen, as if they had forgotten what they were supposed to be doing. The swimming pool had become a landfill, the refuse piled almost to the top. There were two more pigs chained to a pole outside a falling-down outbuilding, performing a porcine Morris dance. “That’s it,” 4368696e61 said. “The chicken house is up the other end, but you don’t need to see that.”
“Nice place,” Stanton said. “It’s got . . .”
“Potential,” 4368696e61 said. “Hear that? Jay’s back with the goats.”
They walked back in time to see Jay run down the slope and through the herd, flapping his arms and grinning. Ruby was there, wearing a cleanish dress and the butterfly sunglasses, though it was nearly dusk. Stanton faced her directly, the others at his back. He was close enough to smell her, but for the stink from the cow and the shit. Her tongue flickered out and touched the mole above her lip. “Are you going somewhere?” Stanton said, silently. She watched his lips. “Yes,” she said in her ugly nasal voice. “I’m going.”
Chrissie came outside. “One of these days,” she said, petulant, “she’ll get herself killed.” She had a bucket of chicken feed in her hand. “Want to come with me?” Chrissie gestured vaguely at 4368696e61 and Jay moving among the goats, meaning they were occupied.

He walked behind her, watching the way her backside moved beneath the thin fabric of her skirt, the ridges rising and falling on her calves, the red rings of bites around her ankles. His throat began to ache. They passed around the willow to the farthest outbuilding. The sky was turning red. She put the bucket down and took a step back, kicking it over. He kissed her without taking her in his arms. She did not seem surprised. She did not attempt to hold him, but her tongue was active, forceful. Brandy and a sharp tang of vomit. “Over there,” he said, and went up to the wall. He turned her around and lifted her skirt and made short work of it. He reached forward briefly and circled her wrists with his hands, the scabs pressed into his palms. She did not cry out or move her hips or even deepen her breath. “Thank you,” he said, and zipped up his trousers. Behind them, the chickens pecked the ground. When he went to the truck and untied the rope, the calf stood over the severed head and cried.
Jay came two days later. It was evening already, but Stanton was still writing. “I’m getting behind,” he said. “Tell you what, give me a few days—I’ll come over and see you.”
“Don’t matter,” Jay said, turning. He wore a Manchester United top. It hung almost to his knees.
Stanton followed him out. “You understand, right?”
“Don’t matter.”
“It’s not that I don’t want you to come.”
Jay stopped. Without turning, he said, “Yes, it is.”
Stanton suppressed a sigh. How had he ended up looking after this boy? “Listen, the reason I came out here . . . Look at me. Jay. Look.”
But the boy would not.
Stanton felt the stiffness in his neck. Too many hours in front of the screen. “Actually,” he said, “I think I could use a break. How about a Coke?”
“Don’t matter,” the boy said.
“Will you stop saying that? Stop being a baby and get yourself a drink. It’s doesn’t, anyway. And it does.”
They sat on the terrace steps, not speaking. Jay pulled a long string of gum out of his mouth, wrapped it around a finger, then sucked it back for another chew. He crouched low to watch ants. He turned over a beetle that had got stuck on its back.
“How’s the puppy?” Stanton asked.
“He ran away.” Jay scratched in the dust with a twig.
“He might come back.”
“No,” Jay said. “They never do.”
Stanton searched for something wise or comforting to say. “Got any spare gum?” he asked.
“No. Tina’s having babies soon. She’s the pig.”
“Great.” He wondered if Dieter had been right about Ruby’s being pregnant, and if Jay knew. “Jay, don’t you have any friends around here? Your own age, I mean.”
“At school,” Jay said. “Only see them at school, really. Thought you said it’s ‘doesn’t,’ anyway.”
“What I said . . . never mind.”
Jay stood up. “That’s me mum’s car.”
Chrissie had on a floppy straw hat and a long skirt. She’s dressed up, Stanton thought.
“I’ve told you about bothering Harry.”
“I invited him.”
“Watch this, Mum.” Jay ran up to the terrace. “I can walk on my hands now. Been practicing.”
“Don’t show off, Jay,” Chrissie said.
“Look, Mum. See this?”
“All right, Jay. We’ve all seen it.”
“Very good,” Stanton said. “Well done.”
“Your dad wants you,” Chrissie said. “He needs some help.”
“With what?”
“How should I know?” Chrissie said, whining. “You best get going.”
Jay rubbed his head. “How about you?”
“How about me? You can walk back. I’m on my way to the shops.”
“How about you?” Jay said.
“Kids!” She tried a laugh. “I’ll be going in a minute. I’m just having a word with Harry first.”
Jay stayed where he was.
Stanton smiled and rocked on his heels. Someone had told him once that the children of alcoholics become adept at sensing mood swings, reading body language.
“I’ll wait for you at the car,” Jay said. “You can give me a lift back to the road.”
Chrissie tipped her head to one side. “I could kill him,” she said.
“So,” Stanton said. “You’re going shopping.”
Chrissie rubbed her arms. “You bastard,” she said softly, getting up.
A forest fire burned for three days on the hills that hid the sea. A firefighter was hurt, only slightly. The newspaper reported sixty-seven dead in the heat wave. Stanton kept a bottle of water on his desk and it grew warm before he had finished a page.
Eventually, he came to a lull. He went out and bought a soccer ball for Jay, a vase for Chrissie, and a bottle of cachaça and a bag of limes to make caipirinhas. He picked up a pair of sunglasses with diamanté studs but put them back again.
“Mate,” said 4368696e61, who had come out of the house at the sound of the truck, “let’s have a fucking drink.”
He had thought of it as a visit to see Jay, but he realized now that it wasn’t.
“Been out all day with the goats,” 4368696e61 said. “Something special, like. People don’t realize.”
Chrissie took the vase without a word. Jay whooped at the sight of the ball, which made Stanton feel bad. Ruby, thankfully, was out. He explained how to make the caipirinhas with lime juice and sugar and plenty of ice, and Chrissie went to the kitchen. She set doilies on the tray, one under each glass.
“Blinding,” 4368696e61 said. “Jay, take that fucking ball outside.”
“What do you like about them?” Stanton asked. “The goats.” He watched 4368696e61 spread out against his chair, the slight tremor in his hand as he brought the glass to his lips. It was 4368696e61 he had come for; some atavistic instinct that 4368696e61 appealed to, a desire to see the demons at work.
“Goats,” 4368696e61 said, his voice dragging like a broken exhaust. “You look at ’em long enough, you see the universe. Good and evil, love and war, God and the Devil. Know what I mean?”
“For God’s sake,” Chrissie said.
“Shut up,” 4368696e61 said, not quite shouting. “Who asked you? Where’s my lighter? There’s one billy . . .” He leaned forward so that Stanton could see the scarlet rims of his eyes. “He don’t know when to stop. He’s so horny I daren’t turn my back on him.” He slapped his thigh and hooted. “We think we’re that much better than animals, but I’ll tell you something for free—you watch ’em long enough you learn a lot. A goat with the horn is like a man with a mission. Made by the same Creator to the same design. Yes, you certainly learn a lot.” He lit a joint and passed it to Stanton.
Stanton took a drag and managed not to cough. He passed it to Chrissie and their fingers brushed together.
4368696e61 got out of his chair. He looked around, picked up a filthy T-shirt, and blew his nose on it. “I’m going to check on Tina. She’s a little darling, she is.” At the doorway, he looked over his shoulder. “Listen, mate, my home is your home. Anything you want, you take it.”

Stanton followed Chrissie into the kitchen. The roof was plastic sheeting over untreated wood beams. There was a puddle of something—it had not rained for weeks—in the middle of the floor. Chrissie put more ice in a plastic bag and smashed it with a hammer. Stanton slipped his arm around from behind and held her wrist. He felt her grip tighten on the hammer before she let it drop. It was over quickly and this time they did not kiss. When they went back to the sitting room, Ruby was there, hugging her knees to her chest.
He was drinking in the bar next door to the [REDACTED] do Povo and thinking that it had been a long time since he had driven home not drunk when he noticed her. He ordered a pineapple Sumol and took it over to her table. She had a pink satin handbag with a stain on it and a beaded scarf, which she had placed on the chair opposite, as if reserving the space. Stanton moved her things and sat down.
“Do you mind?” she said, her voice high.
“Not at all,” Stanton said.
She turned her head and chewed her lip and then flashed back at him. “If you’re going to sit there, I’ll have a beer.”
“I’d be delighted to buy you one,” he said, “when you’re eighteen.”
“Ha-ha, very funny, my name’s Bugs Bunny.”
“Good one,” Stanton said. “Look, I’ll move when your boyfriend gets here. You are meeting your boyfriend, aren’t you?” He glanced at her stomach, but there was nothing he could tell from that.
Ruby looked out the window. She reached up and tucked her hair behind her ears. “I know what you’re doing,” she said. “Deaf doesn’t mean stupid.”
“I know,” Stanton said, speaking the words aloud this time. “I’m sorry.” The shame seemed to spread from his anus, which contracted and released and contracted again. “I’m sorry,” he said again. She kept her hearing aid turned to him like a steady reproach. “I’ll buy you that beer if you like.” Nothing. In the pit of his stomach, there was a deep absence. He was sorry for her, and he was sorry for himself.
“Not much to do, is there, in the village? Not at your age.”
A light down spread out from the hairline at her ear to the baby fat along her jaw. The mole beneath her nose looked ticklish, like a crumb sticking there. Have it your way, Stanton thought, shaking it all off.
She heard him standing up or saw it out of the corner of her eye. “You can always find something,” she said, “if you try hard enough.”
“I expect so.” He sat down again and wished that he had moved faster.
“Party in Milfontes tonight. Should be good.” She did the thing with the tip of her tongue reaching up to the mole.
4368696e61 came through the door as if he meant to take it off its hinges. He was drunker than usual. His jeans looked as if they would stand on their own. “Mate,” he bellowed. “Let’s have a fucking drink.” He noticed his daughter. “Get yourself home now. It’s late.”
“It’s not,” Ruby said. “And don’t fucking shout. Showing me up as per usual.”
4368696e61 leaned over the table, hulking his shoulders forward. “Showing you up? Showing you up? You’ve shown yourself up. A long fucking time ago, my girl.”
He sat back, the fight gone out of him. “Ah, well, fuck it. Do what you like.”
“I will,” Ruby said. She gathered her bag and scarf and went out, everybody watching the swing of her hips.
“I don’t mind telling you,” 4368696e61 said, when he had lined up the brandies and the beers, “I don’t mind telling you that in the old days I’d have knocked her for six. Not my style anymore.” He lifted his drink and spilled a little down his chin. “You got to let things be.”
Stanton was tired. “Your philosophy of life,” he said.
“That’s right,” 4368696e61 said. It was just about possible to make out the whites of his eyes beneath the web of red veins. “When I was big on control, I was really big on control, know what I mean, and I controlled a patch of Yarmouth, ran nearly over to fucking Cromer, know what I mean, and what I said”—he slammed his glass on the table—“went.”
My muse, Stanton thought, stabbed through with resentment. “What brought you here, then?”
4368696e61 smiled, loose-lipped, slack-jawed. “Mate,” he said slowly, as if to comfort a dying man. “Mate. What brought any of us? On the run, ain’t we? On the fucking run.”
He had taken the truck to the garage to get the clutch looked at. When he got back, Chrissie was waiting for him.
“I’ll have to start locking the door,” he said.
She had her arms wrapped around her chest, her hip bones were a pair of razor shells, and her pubic hair was surprisingly dark. “I thought we should. At least once. You know, with our clothes off.”
“Chrissie,” he said, unbuckling, “do you think Ruby saw us?”
She turned on her stomach and spoke into the pillow so that he could not catch the words. He ran his palm down the ridge of her spine and onto the shallow slope of her buttocks. She put her arms behind her back, wrists together. There was a spot of blood on the sheets from her forearm. “Turn over,” he said.
She obeyed him, but when he looked into her face there was nothing he could read, except a kind of helpless defiance.
“I don’t care,” Chrissie said.
“Do you think she saw us?”
“I can’t help it,” she said, and pulled his head toward her.
She came nearly every day. When she was not there, he sat on the terrace spitting olive pits into an old can or shuffling a deck of cards, or he chopped wood and stacked it in the shed for the winter months, which were not far off. He did no writing.
They got into a rhythm. When he heard her car, he went to the bedroom and lit candles, though the flames disappeared in the sunlight. He liked the way she dozed on her side with her hands between her knees. He liked the way she shivered when he ran his hand down her back. She always sighed as she took off her bra.
“What’s the point of these?” she said, blowing out one of the candles.
“It’s romantic,” he said. “You’re supposed to like it.”
Whatever pleasure she took she kept largely to herself.
“Run away with me,” he said.
She was making the bed. “I’ve got to get going.”
“4974616c79,” he said, catching her around the waist. “Monte Carlo. Rio.”
“I’ve lost my hair clip,” she said. “Did you see me put it down?”
He asked about Ruby. “She was,” Chrissie said. “But she isn’t now. Miscarriage.”
“I’m sorry,” Stanton said.
“Don’t be.”
She scratched her arms until they bled.
“What are you doing?” he said. “What are you doing?”
Jay came only once when she was there. Stanton pulled on his trousers and went to the door. “Come back in a couple of hours, can you?” The car, he thought. Jesus. “Your mum came round. She’s in the woods. Thought she might find you there.”

“Tina,” Jay said. He put his hand up to shield his eyes as he looked out toward the oaks.
“She had her litter?”
“Yeah,” Jay said. “She’s ate ’em, though.” For a moment he looked solemn and then he began to giggle. “They’d have been ate in the end, anyway. That’s what me dad says.”
Chrissie was dressed and sitting at his desk, looking at his computer. “English,” she said, “was my best subject at school.”
By September, they had run out of steam, got to the end of each other. They both knew it. Still, he had to say something, and it would be a delicate business. He sat on the steps, shuffling cards and waiting.
When she got out of the car, she checked her reflection in the wing mirror. She carried a basket of eggs.
There was a cold rinse in his chest that could have been mistaken for fear.
“Chrissie,” he said, “I need to bury myself for a while.”
She set down the basket. “They’ve started laying in that old Citroën.”
He took her hand. “Do you see what I’m saying?”
“For some reason,” she said, “we’re getting a lot of double-yolkers.”
She made it easy, really. He was grateful. “You’ve got your work, Harry,” she told him. “Need your peace and quiet. And I’ve got my husband.”
He kissed her on the nose. “I’ll still see you,” he told her. “We’ll have coffee.”
“I don’t drink coffee,” she said.
“Tea, then,” he said, “or a beer.”
Later, he met Dieter at the café and attempted a discreet celebration. “A bottle of red—the best you have.”
Vasco wiped the table and tucked his filthy rag into his belt. “You would like something special? Expensive, yes?”
“O.K.,” Stanton said.
“O.K.,” Vasco wheezed. “I charge you more.”
Dieter’s subject was Portuguese bureaucracy, an old favorite. “All these obstacles they put in your way. They do not really want you to work.”


Stanton nodded. The work on his own house would never be completed.
“In [REDACTED], they will be fired. The officials are there to help you, and if they do not they will be fired. Pure and simple.”
“Pure and simple,” Stanton said. “Why don’t you go back to [REDACTED]? Seems everything would be easier.”
Dieter sat up and clutched the arms of his chair. “[REDACTED]?” he said. “If I never see that country again so long as I live, so much the better for me. [REDACTED]? No. Never.”
Vasco came with a bottle of the usual. “Very expensive, this. Very good wine for celebrating. Wait, I bring a glass and make a toast with you. . . . So, what do we toast?”
“Long life,” Dieter said, sounding pained.
“Life and liberty,” Stanton said, raising a glass.
Ruby looked like a waxwork in the headlights. She stood still when he pulled over and she did not move when he opened the door. “Give you a ride home,” he called. “Come on, get in.” She got in without a word. She had the sunglasses in her hand. “Good night?” he asked. She leaned her head against the window. Finally she said, “I’m really, really tired.”
A little way along the track that led down to the Potts house, she said, “Let me out now. If Dad hears, he’ll come looking.”
Stanton stopped the car and cut the engine.
Playing it back later—in bed, entombed in the noise of cicadas—he could not recall who had made the first move. She smelled of freshly dug earth and her skin was all goose bumps, and when she came she bit his ear until he cried out and pinched her hard to make her let him go.
He spent two nights at his desk and on the third day slept in his chair and woke with his head lolled back, a demon pain laced at the neck and one hand on the keyboard.
He heard Chrissie’s car and the soft click of her sandals on the steps. He heard the sigh of the door handle and the resistance of the lock.
Ruby came the next day and knocked on the door, then the window, and then circled to the back and stood outside the bedroom. He crouched in the bathroom next to the stack of tiles that would never be laid and noticed for the first time the mesh of fine lines in the clear glaze. He watched her leave from the sitting-room window and when she got to the cypress trees she looked back and raised one finger in the air.
The rain came and turned the world to mud. Stanton took his boots off at the door, but still the mud insinuated itself into the house. If it carried on this way, he would be forced to clean the place. The oranges began to drop, but they could not, Stanton discovered, be eaten. The peach trees in the little orchard turned out to be rotten. They sagged beneath the weight of water and split and rested their branches on the ground. At dawn—sometimes he was rising, sometimes going to bed—the eucalyptus drifted ghostlike in the mist. A fox visited every evening, and Stanton began to put out his scraps.
The shepherd moved on without goodbyes. In the woods, Stanton saw hunters with ancient guns. He thought he saw the boy once, but when he got to the place there was no one.
Four more weeks and he had a complete draft. He drove half an hour, the windscreen wipers sticking and dislodging and sticking again, to the nearest big town, where he knew he could buy Glenfiddich. At home, he poured a generous measure. A fire, he thought, would be nice. The wood caught on the third attempt, but it was still damp and the smoke hurt his eyes and made him cough.
He was sick of these four walls. In the last month he’d spoken barely a dozen words.
He thought about Jay. It would be good to see the boy again.
Chrissie. Lovely Chrissie. She wouldn’t be angry. Chrissie could hardly complain. They’d said they’d have a beer.
Ruby. Well, Ruby. Ruby would be all right. She’d made the first move, remember. Been around a bit.
How many visitors did they get over there, anyway? Let’s have a fucking drink, mate. Yes, let’s have a fucking drink.
The whiskey bottle bounced off the passenger seat as he swung a sharp left. He sang an old tune as he pulled up by the chicken shed. You can blow out the candle but you can’t put out the fi__re. When he opened the door, he noticed the calf, much bigger now, bandy legs and bloated stomach, standing by the house with rain running from its nose and tail and its hooves in plastic bags. The wind howled through the bamboo and sent a curtain of water off the roof. Chrissie answered the door and backed away from him, and he went in and found that all the Pottses were there and that none were ready with a greeting.
“What kind of man are you?” 4368696e61 spoke quietly. Chrissie stood behind Ruby and stroked her hair. Stanton, needing salvation, tried to smile at Jay, but the boy would not look at him. “What kind of man are you?” That was all. Chrissie did not speak and Ruby did not speak and Jay did not speak and Stanton had no answer. He waited for 4368696e61 to call him every name under the sun, but 4368696e61 did not oblige. Long after all hope had gone, Stanton stood there and waited for something to happen and nothing happened at all.

On the drive back, he swerved to avoid a tractor he hadn’t seen coming, the pickup skidded into the verge, and two wheels sank without hesitation into the mud. It was not far to walk. He drank a good measure of whiskey before removing his clothes, and he found that if he just kept up a constant sipping, very evenly spaced, taking very small sips, he could keep all thoughts from his head. The whiskey was warming. If he observed very closely, very carefully, the way it travelled out from the solar plexus along all the major arteries and branched off along each individual vein, he could feel it as a kind of calm radiating out from the core of his being.
He woke in his chair, naked and half frozen, and when he went to boil water he could not feel his toes, and his fingers were too stiff to strike a match. His head hurt. His back was broken; or if not broken, then something worse. When he bent to put his socks on, he nearly cried. He set off to walk up to the telephone box, and on the way he thought about how beautiful the place was and how much he would miss it. The rain had stopped in the night, and the sun played in the treetops, scattering diamonds here and there. It teased purples and scarlets from the plowed-up field and burnished the far-off hills a fine shade of nostalgia. He breathed deeply and it was good to smell the eucalyptus and the pine, and he felt the air making him clean inside. As he came up to the road, he saw an old man in a black felt hat and waistcoat leading a cow along the opposite track, heading for the village at such a slow pace, as if they had all the time in the world, as if arriving were nothing and the journey everything. He raised a hand and the old man raised a hand. They passed each other and Stanton went on his way. 

