PREGNANCY DIARY
By Yoko Ogawa

December 29 (Monday): My sister went to the M Clinic today. Since she rarely goes to see anyone except Dr. Nikaido, she was nervous about the appointment. She’d put it off, worrying about what she should wear and how she should speak to the doctor, until it was the last day they’d be seeing patients this year. This morning, she was still fussing.
“I wonder how many months of temperature charts I should show them?” She looked up distractedly from the breakfast table but made no move to get up.
“Why not take all of them?” I answered.
“But that’s two years’ worth,” she said, her voice rising as she churned her spoon in the yogurt. “Twenty-four charts, and only a few days that have anything to do with the pregnancy. I think I’ll just show them this month’s.”
“Then what was the point of taking your temperature every day for two years?”
“I can’t stand the thought of some doctor pawing through them right there in front of me, as if he were trying to find out every detail of how I got pregnant.” She studied the yogurt clinging to her spoon. It shimmered, viscous and white, as it dripped back into the container.
“You’re making too big a deal out of it,” I said, covering the yogurt and putting it back into the refrigerator. “They’re just charts.”
In the end, she decided to show the doctor all the charts, but it took her some time to find them.
I’m not sure why, when she was meticulous about taking her temperature, she was so careless with the charts themselves. The sheets of graph paper, which should have been kept in her bedroom, would stray to the magazine rack or the telephone stand, and I’d suddenly come across them as I was flipping through the newspaper or making a phone call. I realize now that there was something odd about my finding these scraps of paper with their jagged lines and telling myself, “She must have ovulated then,” or “Her basal temperature was low this month.”
My sister had chosen the M Clinic for sentimental reasons. I’d tried to get her to go somewhere bigger and better equipped, but she had made up her mind. “When we were kids, I decided that if I ever had a baby I’d have it there,” she said.
The M Clinic was a small private maternity hospital that had been around since our grandfather’s day. When my sister and I were girls, we had often sneaked into the garden to play. From the front, the three-story wooden building was gloomy, with moss-covered walls, a half-faded sign, and frosted windows. But if you made your way to the garden around the back, it was bright and sunny. For some reason, this contrast thrilled us.
There was a carefully tended lawn behind the building, and we loved to roll down it. As I rolled, glimpses of green grass and dazzling sky alternated in my vision, blurring to a pale turquoise. Then the sky and the wind and the earth would recede for a moment and I felt as if I were floating in space. I loved that moment.
But our favorite pastime was spying on what was happening inside the clinic. Climbing on stacks of empty boxes that had once held gauze or cotton balls, we’d stare through the window into the examination room.
“We’ll get in trouble if they catch us,” I said. I was always more timid than my sister.
“Don’t worry, they won’t do anything. We’re just kids,” she’d say, calmly rubbing the glass with her sleeve to wipe away the condensation from our breath. As we pressed our faces up against the window, we could smell the fresh white paint inside. That odor, like an ache deep in my head, still reminds me of the clinic after all these years.
The room was always empty at midday, before the afternoon appointments began, and we could study it to our hearts’ content. A collection of bottles arranged on an oval tray seemed particularly mysterious. They had no caps or seals, just glass stoppers, which I felt an irresistible urge to pull out. The bottles had been stained brown or purple or deep red by the fluids they held, and when the sunlight shone through them the liquid seemed to glisten.
A stethoscope and some tongs and a blood-pressure cuff lay on the doctor’s desk. The thin, twisting tube, the dull silver fittings, and the pear-shaped rubber bulb of the cuff made it look like a strange insect nestled among the other instruments. There was an odd beauty in the unintelligible letters printed on the medical charts. A poster on the wall read, “Position for use in treating breech presentation.” In the picture, a woman was on her knees with her chest pressed against the floor. She was wearing a leotard that was so tight she looked naked. She lay there in the yellowed poster, staring vacantly into the distance. Then the chimes from a school somewhere in the neighborhood would start ringing, telling us that it was time for the afternoon examinations. We knew that we had to leave when we heard the nurses coming back from lunch.
Sometimes women would be looking out of the windows on the third floor. They had likely just given birth. They had on thick bathrobes and their hair was tied back in ponytails. None of them wore makeup. Wisps of hair floated around their temples, and their faces were expressionless. I wondered why they didn’t seem happier at the prospect of sleeping above an examination room full of such fascinating objects.
My sister came back before noon, and I found her in the front hallway just as I was getting ready to leave for work.
“What did they say?”
“I’m in the second month—exactly six weeks.”
“Can they really tell that precisely?”
“They can when they have all the charts,” she said, pulling off her coat and hurrying past me. She didn’t seem especially excited by the news. “What’s for dinner?”
“Bouillabaisse,” I said. “The clams and squid were cheap.”
She had changed the subject so quickly that I completely forgot to congratulate her. But, then again, I wasn’t quite sure that congratulations were appropriate for a baby who would be born to my sister and her husband. I looked up “congratulate” in the dictionary: it said “to wish someone joy.”
“That doesn’t mean much,” I muttered, tracing my finger over a line of characters that held no promise of joy themselves.
December 30 (Tuesday), 6 weeks + 1 day: Since I was a little girl, I’ve disliked the thirtieth of December. I could always get through the thirty-first by telling myself that the year was finally over, but the thirtieth was confusing somehow, neither here nor there. Cooking the traditional New Year’s dinner, cleaning the house, shopping—none of my tasks were completely done.
When my father and mother got sick and died, one right after the other, my ties to the New Year’s season became even more tenuous. Nor did that change when my brother-in-law came to live with us. Still, breakfast this morning was a bit more relaxed than usual, since I didn’t have classes and my brother-in-law’s office was closed for the holiday.

“When you haven’t had enough sleep, even the winter sun seems too bright,” he said, squinting behind his glasses as he lowered himself into a chair. The light shining in from the garden fell on the table, and our three pairs of slippers cast long shadows across the floor.
“Were you out late?” I asked. He’d gone to the year-end party for the dental office where he works, and I must have been asleep by the time he got home.
“I caught the last train,” he said. As he picked up his cup, a sweet smell wafted across the table. He puts so much cream and sugar into his coffee that the kitchen smells like a bakery at breakfast. I’ve often wondered how someone who makes bridges and dentures for a living can drink such sweet coffee without worrying about cavities. “The last train is worse than the rush-hour ones,” he added. “It’s always packed, and everyone’s drunk.” My sister scraped her butter knife over her toast.
Since her visit to the gynecologist yesterday, her pregnancy is now official, but she doesn’t seem any different. Usually the least little thing—her favorite hair salon closing, the neighbor’s old cat dying, a water-main break—is enough to get her completely agitated and send her running to see Dr. Nikaido.
I wonder how she broke the news to her husband. I don’t really know what they talk about when I’m not around. In fact, I don’t really understand couples at all. They seem like some sort of inexplicable gaseous body to me—a shapeless, colorless, unintelligible thing, trapped in a laboratory beaker.
“There’s too much pepper in this,” my sister muttered, sticking her fork into her omelette. Since she always has something to say about the food, I pretended not to hear her. Half-cooked egg dripped from the end of her fork like yellow blood. My brother-in-law was eating slices of kiwi. I can’t stand kiwi—all those seeds make me think of little black bugs, and the kiwi this morning was particularly ripe and soft. Beads of sweat had collected on the surface of the butter.
Apparently, neither of them was anxious to bring up the subject of the pregnancy, so I didn’t mention it, either. Birds were singing in the garden. A few wisps of cloud dissolved somewhere far off in the sky. The clatter of dishes alternated with the sound of chewing.
None of us seem to have realized that the year is almost over. There are no pine branches decorating the door, no black beans or mochi in the house. “I suppose we should at least do the cleaning,” I said, as if talking to myself.
“You shouldn’t overdo it in your condition,” my brother-in-law said, turning to my sister as he licked the kiwi juice from his lips. It’s just like him to say the most obvious thing as if it were a profound truth.
January 8 (Thursday), 7 weeks + 3 days: Her morning sickness has started. I had no idea it came on so suddenly. She’d been saying all along that she wouldn’t have it, that she hates that sort of cliché. She’s convinced, for instance, that hypnosis or anesthesia would never work on her. But we were eating macaroni and cheese for lunch when she suddenly held up her spoon and began staring at it.
“Does this spoon look funny?” she asked. It seemed perfectly normal to me.
“It smells weird,” she said, her nostrils flaring.
“Weird how?”
“I don’t know . . . like sand. Did you ever fall over in the sandbox when you were little? Like that, dry and rough.” She set the spoon back on her plate and wiped her mouth.
“Are you done?” I asked. She nodded and then rested her chin on her hands. The kettle began to whistle on the stove. She looked at me but said nothing, so I went on with my lunch.
“Doesn’t the sauce on the macaroni remind you of digestive juices?” she murmured. I ignored her and took a sip of water. “So warm and slimy? The way it globs together?” She bent forward and peered at me, her head cocked to one side. I tapped the end of my spoon on my plate. “And the color, does it look like lard? The noodles are strange, too. The way they squish when I bite into them makes me feel like I’m chewing on intestines, little slippery tubes full of stomach juices.” As I watched these words dribble out of her mouth, I fingered my spoon and thought how sad it was to see her like this. She went on talking until she had nothing else to say and then rose to go. The macaroni was a cold white lump on her plate.
January 28 (Wednesday), 10 weeks + 2 days: Her morning sickness is getting worse. She seems convinced that it will neither get slowly better nor disappear completely, and that depresses her. At any rate, she can’t eat anything. I’ve suggested just about every food imaginable, but she refuses everything. I even got out all the cookbooks in the house and went through them with her, but it didn’t help. I realize now that eating is actually an extremely delicate undertaking.
Still, her stomach is so empty it must ache, and she finally said that she needed to “put something in her mouth.” (She couldn’t bring herself to say “eat.”) She decided on a croissant. A waffle or some potato chips might have done just as well, but a croissant left over from breakfast happened to be peeking out of the bread basket. She tore off a piece, forced it into her mouth, and swallowed it almost without chewing. Then, to wash it down, she took a tiny sip from a can of sports drink, grimacing with disgust as she swallowed. It didn’t seem like eating at all, more like some magic rite or ritual.
My brother-in-law has been bringing home articles that he thinks will help: “How I Beat Morning Sickness” or “What Fathers Can Do for Morning Sickness.” It’s hard to believe, but the pregnancy seems to be affecting his appetite as well. At the table, he just pokes at his food and barely eats anything. “I can’t eat when she’s feeling so bad,” he says, sighing. She seems to think that he’s acting this way just to be nice, but I’ve noticed that when he’s massaging her back while she forces down a croissant he gets terribly pale and clutches his other hand to his mouth. They huddle together like a pair of injured birds and shuffle off to their bedroom, not to be seen again until morning.
My brother-in-law seems particularly pitiful to me, since he has no reason to feel sick, and I find myself getting angry over his little sighs and whimpers. It occurs to me that I’d fall in love with the kind of man who could put away a three-course French dinner even when he knew I was paralyzed by morning sickness.
February 6 (Friday), 11 weeks + 4 days: I eat all my meals alone now. I take my time, looking out at the flower beds or the shovel abandoned in the garden or the clouds floating by. I enjoy these quiet moments, and sometimes I even have a beer at lunch or smoke a cigarette, which my sister hates. I’m not lonely. Eating by myself seems to suit me. But this morning, as I was frying some bacon and eggs, she came running down the stairs.

“What’s that awful smell?” she screamed, tearing at her hair. “Can’t you do something?” She seemed ready to burst into tears. The bare feet protruding from the legs of her pajamas looked icy and as transparent as glass. She switched off the burner, nearly ripping the knob from the stove.
“It’s just bacon and eggs,” I whispered.
“Then why is the whole house filled with that disgusting smell? Butter, grease, eggs, pork—I can’t breathe!” Putting her head down on the table, she began to sob. I didn’t know what to do, so I turned on the exhaust fan and opened a window.
By this time, she was crying in earnest. It was remarkable to watch, almost like a scene from a play. Her hair hung down over her face, and her shoulders heaved. I put my hand on her back to comfort her.
“You have to do something!” she said between sobs. “When I woke up my whole body was filled with that awful stench. It’s in my mouth and my lungs. My insides feel like they’re coated with it.”
“I’m sorry,” I said timidly. “I’ll try to be more careful.”
“It’s not just the bacon and eggs. It’s the frying pan and the dishes, the soap in the bathroom, the curtains in the bedroom—everything stinks. It’s spreading all over the house, like a giant amoeba eating up all the other odors around it, on and on forever.” She sat there weeping, her tear-covered face resting on the table, and I stood, my hand still on her back, studying the check pattern on her pajamas. The motor on the exhaust fan sounded louder than usual.
“I know, I know,” I murmured. I took a deep breath, but I couldn’t smell anything at all. Just the kitchen in the morning. The coffee cups were lined up neatly in the cupboard. The white dishtowels were drying on the rack. A patch of frozen blue sky was visible through the window.
I have no idea how long she cried. It might have been only a few minutes, but it seemed much longer. In any case, she cried until she couldn’t cry anymore. Then she let out a long, slow breath and looked up at me. Her cheeks and eyelashes were damp with tears, but her expression was calm.
“From now on, I won’t use the kitchen when you’re here,” I said. She nodded. My cold bacon and eggs lay quietly in the pan.
February 10 (Tuesday), 12 weeks + 1 day: Twelve weeks—and the morning sickness is as bad as ever. It clings to her like a wet blouse. Which may be why she went to see Dr. Nikaido today. Her nerves and her hormones and her emotions seem all out of whack. As she always does before these visits, she spent a long time deciding what to wear. She lined up all her coats and skirts, her sweaters and scarves on the bed and studied them carefully. She also spent a lot of time on her makeup. I worry that all this fuss will make my brother-in-law jealous. The morning sickness has made her hips narrower, her cheeks a little sunken, and her jaw more defined; she’s prettier than ever. You’d never guess that she was pregnant.
I met Dr. Nikaido once, when he brought her home during a typhoon. He’s a middle-aged man with an unremarkable face and he made no impression on me at all. In fact, afterward I couldn’t recall a single feature—thick earlobes, for example, or strong fingers—nothing. He just stood quietly behind my sister, looking down at the ground. Perhaps because his shoulders and hair were wet from the rain, he seemed terribly sad.
I don’t really know what kind of therapy he practices, but my sister has mentioned psychological tests and medication of some sort. In any case, she’s been going to see him since she was in high school, more than ten years now without a break, but I can’t see that she’s got any better. Her emotional problems seem to come in waves, like seaweed tossed around in the ocean, and she’s never found a safe shore to rest on. Still, she told me that she feels much better when she’s at his office.
“It’s like when they’re shampooing your hair at the salon,” she said. “The feeling that someone’s taking care of you—it’s wonderful.” Her eyes narrowed with pleasure at the thought of him.
But it’s hard for me to believe that Dr. Nikaido is a good psychiatrist. As he stood mutely in the doorway on the night of the typhoon, he looked more like a frightened patient than a doctor.
The sun had set and a golden moon had risen in the darkness, but she still hadn’t come home. “She shouldn’t be out in this cold,” my brother-in-law muttered. When a taxi finally stopped at the gate, he hurried out to meet her. Her eyes glistened as she unwound her scarf, and she seemed much calmer than she was this morning. But no matter how often she goes to see Dr. Nikaido her morning sickness is as bad as ever.
March 1 (Sunday), 14 weeks + 6 days: It suddenly occurred to me that I haven’t been thinking about the baby. I suppose I should be wondering whether it’s a boy or a girl, what they’ll name it, what sort of baby clothes to buy. I imagine people usually enjoy thinking about those kinds of things. But my sister and her husband never talk about the baby in front of me. They act as if there’s no connection between the pregnancy and the fact that there’s a baby in her belly. Which may explain why it has no concrete existence for me.
At the moment, I use the word “chromosome” to help me remember that there’s actually a baby in there. “Chromosome” helps me give it some kind of form. I once saw a picture of chromosomes in a science magazine. They looked like pairs of butterfly cocoons lined up in a row. They were oblong, and just the right size and shape to pinch in your fingers. The pairs were all different: some were curved at the ends like a cane, others were perfectly straight and parallel, and others were backed up against each other like Siamese twins. When I think about my sister’s baby, I count off those twin cocoons in my head.
March 14 (Saturday), 16 weeks + 5 days: She hardly looks pregnant at all, even though she’s entering her fifth month. For weeks now, she’s consumed nothing but croissants and sports drinks, and she’s losing a lot of weight. Except for her visits to the clinic and to Dr. Nikaido, she stays in bed all day, as if she were seriously ill.
About the only thing I can do for her is avoid creating any kind of odor; so I’ve changed every bar of soap in the house to an unscented brand, and I took the paprika and thyme and sage from the spice rack and put them in a tin. I moved all the makeup that was in her room to mine, and, since she’d started complaining about the smell of the toothpaste, my brother-in-law went out and bought a waterpick. Needless to say, I try not to cook when she’s around. But, if I absolutely have to make something, I take the rice cooker or the microwave or the coffee grinder out to the garden and spread a mat on the ground.

It’s peaceful eating outside by myself, looking up at the night sky. The evenings are warmer now that spring is almost here, and the air feels soft. My hands and feet pressed against the mat are dull and numb, but everything else—the crape myrtle, the bricks lining the flower beds, the twinkling stars—is sharp and clear. Except for a dog barking in the distance, the evening is perfectly still.
I plug the rice cooker into the extension cord I’ve strung out from the kitchen, and within a few minutes a cloud of steam rises from the vent and vanishes into the darkness. A packet of instant stew warms in the microwave. From time to time, a light breeze blows, rustling the leaves and carrying away the vapor.
I eat more slowly when I’m in the garden. The cups and dishes set out on the mat are all at slightly different angles. As I serve myself the stew, being careful not to spill it, I feel as though I were playing house. A faint light is burning in my sister’s window on the second floor. I think about her, curled up in bed, surrounded by all those odors, and then I open my mouth wide to take in the darkness with my bite of stew.
March 31 (Tuesday), 19 weeks + 1 day: I got up early today, since the supermarket I had to go to for my part-time job was quite far away. It was foggy, and my eyelashes were cold and damp by the time I reached the station.
The job suits me because my boss always sends me to a different supermarket in an unfamiliar part of town, and I never go to the same place twice. The supermarket is usually situated on a little plaza in front of a train station, with a pedestrian crossing, bicycle racks, and a bus terminal nearby. As I watch people come into the store, I feel as though I’d gone away somewhere on a trip.
At the service entrance, I flash my ID card from the employment agency and the guard nods gruffly. It’s depressing in the back, with boxes and wet sheets of plastic and bits of vegetable littering the floor. The fluorescent lights are dim. I wander through the store with my bag full of equipment, looking for the best place to set up. Today, I chose a spot between the meat counter and the frozen-food cases.
First, I made a stand by stacking some boxes from the storeroom. Then I covered it with a floral-print tablecloth and set out a plate. I put crackers on the plate, took my electric beater from the bag, and began whipping the cream.
The store had just been renovated, so the floor was spotless and everything seemed to shine. I spooned little dabs of whipped cream onto the crackers and offered them to customers as they passed by. I always repeat the sales pitch exactly as it’s printed in the manual from the agency: “Please try some. It’s on sale today. What could be better with your favorite homemade cake?” I rarely say anything else.
All sorts of people passed by my stand—a lady in sandals, a young man in a sweatsuit, a Filipino woman with frizzy hair. Some of them took a cracker from my plate and ate it. Some walked by with a skeptical look, and others put a carton of cream into their basket without saying anything. I gave them all the same smile. My salary has nothing to do with how many cartons I sell, so it seems easiest to be pleasant to everyone.
The shoppers passed by me, baskets in hand, as if bobbing along on a stream of groceries. It occurred to me that almost everything in the store was edible, and this seemed sinister. There was something disturbing about so many people converging on one spot in search of food. And then I remembered my sister, and the way her sad eyes stared at a tiny morsel of croissant, how she seemed on the verge of tears as she swallowed and white crumbs scattered forlornly across the table.
_April 16 (Thursday), 21 weeks + 3 days:_My sister put on a maternity dress for the first time today. Her belly suddenly seemed larger, but when she let me touch it I could tell that it hadn’t changed. I found it difficult to believe that there was a living being there under my hand. She seemed to be having a hard time getting used to the dress and kept fiddling with the ribbon around her waist.
But her morning sickness has vanished, ending just as abruptly as it began. Since the nausea started, she’d avoided the kitchen completely, so I was puzzled when I found her leaning against the counter this morning, after saying goodbye to her husband.
Because we haven’t been cooking, the kitchen was spotless. Every utensil had been put away, the counter was clean and dry, and the dishwasher was empty. It seemed cold and forbidding, like a showroom. She looked around for a moment and then sat down at the table. Normally, it would have been cluttered with bottles and containers we’d forgotten to put away, but today there was nothing on it. She looked up at me as if she had something to say. The hem of her dress swirled around her ankles.
“Would you like a croissant?” I said, trying to be as discreet as possible.
“Please don’t even say that horrible word,” she said. I nodded obediently. “But I would like to try something else,” she continued, almost whispering.
“Sure,” I said. I hurried to the refrigerator, realizing that this was the first time in weeks that she’d expressed any interest in food. But there was absolutely nothing in there, just a bare light bulb illuminating the emptiness. I closed the door with a sigh and went to look in the pantry, but there was nothing there, either.
“Don’t you have anything?” she said, sounding worried.
“Let’s see,” I said, sorting through the bags and cans and jars. “There’s a little gelatin, half a sack of flour, some dried mushrooms, red food coloring, yeast, vanilla extract. . . .” I came across two leftover croissants, but I quickly put them back.
“But I want to eat something,” she said, as if making a momentous decision.
“Hold on. There must be something around here.” I checked the pantry again, shelf by shelf. At the very bottom, I found some raisins we’d once bought for a cake. The date on the box said that they were more than two years old, and they were as dried out as a mummy’s eyeballs. “How about these?” I asked, pushing the bag toward her. She nodded.
It was strange to watch her eat something so hard with such a satisfied expression. Her jaw worked quickly as she took handful after handful from the bag. Her whole mind and body seemed to be concentrated on eating. When she came to the last few raisins, she let them rest on her palm for a moment, studying them lovingly before slowly putting them into her mouth. That was when I understood that her morning sickness was gone.

May 1 (Friday), 23 weeks + 4 days: In the past ten days my sister has gained back the ten pounds she lost during fourteen weeks of morning sickness. Now she seems to have something edible in her hand at every waking moment. If she’s not at the table for a meal, she’s clutching a bag of pastries, or looking for the can opener, or poking around in the refrigerator. It’s as if her whole being had been swallowed up by her appetite.
She eats all the time, almost as a reflex, like breathing. Her eyes are clear and expressionless, fixed somewhere off in space. Her lips move vigorously, like the thighs of a sprinter. But for me very little has changed; it’s just like when she was sick all the time—all I can do is sit back and watch.
May 28 (Thursday), 27 weeks + 3 days: The more my sister eats, the more her belly grows. The swelling starts just below her breasts and continues down to her lower abdomen. When she let me touch it, I was surprised at how hard it was. And it isn’t perfectly symmetrical; it lists slightly to one side. That, too, was something of a shock.
“This is about the time that the eyelids separate,” she told me. “If the fetus is a boy, the genitals are starting to descend from the abdominal cavity.” Her tone, as she described the baby, was cool. And there was something disturbing about the words she used—“fetus,” “genitals,” “abdominal cavity”—something that seemed inappropriate for an expectant mother. As I watched her belly, I wondered whether the chromosomes in there were normal, whether the cocoons were wriggling somewhere deep inside her.
There was a little accident at the supermarket where I was working today. One of the stock boys slipped on a piece of lettuce and broke a whole cart full of eggs. It happened right next to where I was doing my demonstration, so I saw it all at close range. There were broken eggs and slimy smears of yellow all over the floor. The tread mark from the boy’s sneaker was still visible on the lettuce leaf. And several cartons landed in the fruit section, covering the apples and melons and bananas with dripping egg white.
After the accident, the manager gave me a big bag of grapefruits that he said he couldn’t sell, and I was happy to take them home since there never seems to be enough food at our house these days. When I put them out on the table in the kitchen, I noticed that they still smelled slightly of egg. They were big yellow grapefruits, imported from [REDACTED], and I decided to make them into jam.
It was hard work peeling them all and getting the fruit out of the sections. My sister and her husband had gone out for Chinese food. Night was falling, and the house was silent except for the occasional tapping of the knife against the pot, a grapefruit rolling across the table, or my quiet cough. My fingers were sticky from the juice. The light in the kitchen illuminated the grainy pattern of the fruit. The grapefruits became even shinier when the sugar I had sprinkled on them dissolved. I dropped the pretty, crescent-shaped sections into a pot, one after another.
The thick rinds strewn across the table were somehow comical. I cut the pith away and shredded the zest before dropping it into the pot. Yellow juice spurted everywhere, covering the knife, the cutting board, my hands. The zest, too, had a neat, regular pattern, like a human membrane seen under a microscope.
Finally, I turned on the stove and sat down to rest. The sound of simmering grapefruit drifted out into the night. Clouds of sour steam billowed from the pot. As I watched the fruit dissolve, I remembered a meeting that some fellow-students had dragged me to a few months earlier. The title of the program was “Pollution: Our Earth, Our Bodies.” There weren’t many people there, but they seemed a sincere little group. As an outsider, I sat at a desk in the corner and stared out the window at a row of poplars lining the quadrangle.
A thin woman wearing old-fashioned glasses made a presentation about acid rain, and then there were several complicated questions. As I pretended to listen, I fidgeted with the pamphlet they had handed to me on the way in. On the first page, there was a picture of an 556e6974656420537461746573n grapefruit with a caption in bold print: “Beware of imported fruit! Antifungal P.W.H. is highly carcinogenic and has been shown to destroy human chromosomes!” That caption came back to me now in the kitchen.
The fruit and rind had dissolved into a smooth liquid dotted with little gelatinous lumps, and I had just turned off the stove when my sister and her husband came home. She came straight into the kitchen.
“What is that incredible smell?” she said, peering into the pot. “Grapefruit jam—how wonderful!” She had barely finished speaking before she had a spoon in her hand and was scooping up the hot jam. Still clutching her handbag, in her new maternity dress and best earrings, she stuffed the spoon into her mouth. Her husband stood watching from the doorway.
She ate spoonful after spoonful. Her protruding belly made her look almost arrogant as she stood there by the stove, pouring the sticky globs of fruit down her throat. As I studied the last puddles of jam trembling slightly at the bottom of the pan, I wondered whether P.W.H. would really destroy chromosomes.
June 15 (Monday), 30 weeks + 0 days: Monsoon season has started and it’s been raining almost every day. It’s dark and gloomy, and we have to keep the lights on all the time. The sound of the rain echoes constantly in my ears, and it’s so cold that I’ve started to wonder if summer will ever come.
But there has been no change in my sister’s appetite, and fat is beginning to accumulate in her cheeks and neck, her fingers and ankles. Thick, soft fat.
I feel a little disoriented every time I see her like this. Her whole body is swelling before my eyes like a giant tumor.
And I’m still making my jam. Grapefruits are piled all over the kitchen—in the fruit basket, on the refrigerator, next to the spice rack. I peel them, dig out the fruit, sprinkle it with sugar, and simmer it gently over a low flame. Then, before I can get the jam into a bowl, she eats it. She sits at the table, cradling the pot in her arm and working her spoon. She doesn’t bother to spread it on bread or anything else. From the motion of the spoon and the movement of her jaw, you’d think she was eating something hearty and nourishing, like curry and rice. It’s a strange way to eat jam.
The acid odor of the fruit mixes with the smell of the rain. She hardly seems to notice me, but I sit there anyway and watch her eat. “Won’t you upset your stomach if you eat too much?” I murmur. Or, “Haven’t you had enough?” Still no response. My voice is drowned out by the sound of the jam dissolving on her tongue or the drumming of the rain. Finally, when she has licked the last spoonful clean, she glances up at me with a sweet, dreamy look.

“Is there any more?” she murmurs.
“I’ll make more tomorrow,” I say, my voice flat and expressionless. And then, when I’ve cooked every last grapefruit in the house, I buy a new bag at the supermarket where I go to work. I always make sure to ask the man in the fruit department whether they’re imported from [REDACTED].
July 2 (Thursday), 32 weeks + 3 days: It’s almost the ninth month already. My sister came home from the M Clinic today looking a bit depressed. It seems that they warned her about gaining too much weight.
“I had no idea the birth canal could get fat,” she said. “They said that women who put on too much weight can have difficult deliveries.” She seemed irritated as she pulled out the notebook she’d been using to keep track of the pregnancy. I could see that someone had written “Weight restriction” in bright red letters on one page. “They told me that I should only gain about twenty-five pounds by the end of the pregnancy. No doubt about it, I’m in trouble.” She ran her hand through her hair and sighed. She has already gained close to forty-five pounds.
“I don’t suppose there’s anything you can do about it,” I muttered, glancing at her swollen fingers as I headed into the kitchen to make more jam. Because, without my really thinking about it, making grapefruit jam has become something of a habit. I make it and she eats it, as easily and naturally as you brush your hair when you get up in the morning. “Are you really afraid of having a difficult delivery?” I asked, without looking up from the counter.
“Of course,” she said, her voice thin and faint. “These past few days I’ve been thinking a lot about pain—trying to imagine the worst pain I’ve ever felt, whether labor pains are more like terminal cancer or like having both legs amputated—that sort of thing. But it’s pretty hard to visualize pain, and not much fun trying.”
“I can imagine,” I said, peeling fruit. She was clutching her notebook. The picture of a baby on the cover was warped and the child seemed to be crying.
“But it’s even more frightening to think about meeting the baby,” she said. Her gaze dropped to her swollen belly. “I just can’t believe that this thing in here is really my baby. It still seems so vague and abstract. But I know there’s no way I can escape it. In the morning, when I’m just waking up, there’s always a moment when I’m sure that it’s all a dream—the morning sickness, the clinic, this belly, everything. It makes me feel wonderfully free. But then I look down at myself and I know it’s real. I’m filled with sadness, and I realize that what scares me most is the thought of meeting my own baby.”
I listened without turning to look at her. Lowering the heat on the stove, I stirred a big spoon through the pot. “It’s nothing to be afraid of. A baby is just a baby. They’re soft and cuddly, with little curled-up fingers, and they cry a lot. That’s all.” I stared down at the jam curling around the spoon.
“But it’s not that simple. Once it’s born, it’s mine whether I want it or not. And there’s nothing I can do about it, even if it has a birthmark covering half its face, or its fingers are stuck together, or it has no brain, or it’s Siamese twins. . . .” She went on for some time listing awful possibilities. The spoon made a dull sound scraping the bottom of the pan as the jam began to congeal.
I stared into the pot, wondering how much P.W.H. it contained. Under the fluorescent light, the jam reminded me of a chemical, something in a clear bottle, perfect for dissolving chromosomes.
“It’s done,” I said. Gripping the handles of the pot, I turned to face her. “Here, have some.” I held it out to her and she looked at it for a moment. Then, without another word, she started to eat.
July 22 (Wednesday), 35 weeks + 2 days: I’ve tried to think of the baby as something positive for my sister and her husband, and for me. But I never quite manage. I just can’t imagine the look in my brother-in-law’s eyes when he holds the baby in his arms, or the whiteness of my sister’s breasts when she’s nursing it. All I see is that photograph of chromosomes I once found in a science magazine.
August 11 (Tuesday), 38 weeks + 1 day: When I got back from work there was a note from my brother-in-law on the table: “The contractions have started. We’ve gone to the clinic.” I read these few words over and over. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see a spoon coated with jam lying on the table. I tossed it into the sink and thought about what I should do. Then I read the note one more time and left the house.
Everything was bathed in light. The windshields of the cars in the street seemed to glow, and the spray from the fountain in the park sparkled. I walked along, staring at the ground and mopping the sweat from my face. Two children in straw hats ran past. The gate to the elementary school was closed and the playground was empty. Farther on there was a small florist’s, but I saw no sign of a salesperson or any customers. A tiny bunch of baby’s breath lay in the glass case.
I turned the corner and found myself in front of the M Clinic. Just as my sister had said, time seemed to have stopped here, and the clinic was exactly as it had been preserved in my memory for all those years—the big camphor tree next to the gate, the frosted glass in the front door, the peeling letters on the sign. Here, too, there was no one in sight, only my shadow clearly etched on the street.
I followed the wall around to the back of the building and slipped through the old broken gate into the garden. My heart started to pound the moment I set foot on the carefully tended grass, just as it always had. I looked up at the clinic, shielding my eyes from the glare of the sun reflected in the windows.
As I approached the building, the smell of paint drifted toward me. The air was still, and there was no sign of life around me. I was the only thing moving in the garden. I was tall enough now to look into the examination room without standing on a box, but there were no doctors or nurses to be seen. It was dark and deserted, like a science classroom after school gets out. I stood looking in at the bottles of medicine, the blood-pressure cuff, the breech-birth poster, the ultrasound monitor. The glass was warm against my face.
I thought I heard a baby crying in the distance. A tiny, trembling, tear-soaked cry coming from somewhere beyond the blaze of sunlight. As I listened, the sound seemed to be absorbed directly into my eardrums, and my head began to ache. I stepped back and looked up at the third floor. I saw a woman in a nightgown staring off into the distance. Her hair fell across her cheeks and her face was obscured in shadow, so I wasn’t sure if it was my sister. Her lips were parted slightly and she was blinking—the way you blink when you’re close to tears. I would have gone on watching her, but the angle of the sun shifted and she disappeared into the reflection.
Following the baby’s cries, I climbed the fire escape. The wooden stairs groaned under my feet. My body felt limp and warm, but the hand that gripped the railing and the ears absorbing the baby’s cries were strangely cool. As the lawn slowly receded beneath me, its green became even more brilliant.
The baby continued to cry. When I opened the door on the third floor, I was blind for a moment while my eyes adjusted to the light. I stood, concentrating on the baby’s cry as it swept over me in waves, until at last I could see the corridor leading away into the darkness. I set off toward the nursery to meet my sister’s ruined child. 

