LOVE AND OBSTACLES
By Aleksandar Hemon

Before I opened my eyes, I listened: above the sound wall of the clattering train, I heard two male voices. One of them was deep and spoke with a southern Serbian accent; the other was mumbly and uttered words with the slurry inflections of a [REDACTED] thug—the soft consonants further softened, the vowels stuck in the gullet. I wasn’t sure what they were talking about, but there was the gurgling sound of liquid in a bottleneck, the crackling of a burning cigarette.
“[REDACTED],” the Sarajevan said.
“Refused entry.”
“[REDACTED].”
“Refused entry.”
“Greece.”
“Never went.”
“Refused entry.”
“Got me there,” the Serbian said and chortled.
The train slowed to a stop; I heard the doors opening. One of the men got up and stepped out of the compartment, and the other followed. I opened my eyes as the door slid shut. They had pushed the window down and were smoking. Beyond them, I could see a man and a woman running toward the train, suitcases beating against their calves—there was a gash in the woman’s leg. I contemplated escaping from the compartment: I had a bundle of money and my life to worry about. But my fellow-travellers had pressed their butts against the door, a Y-shaped crack peeping out of the pants of one of them. The train lurched and started moving; they flicked their cigarettes out the window and came back in. I closed my eyes again.
“Did you know Tuka?” the Sarajevan asked.
“No.”
“How about Fahro?”
“Which Fahro?”
“Fahro the Beast.”
“Fahro the Beast. His nose was bitten off?”
“Yes, that Fahro.”
“I didn’t know him.”
“Which cellblock were you in?”
“Seven.”
“Rape?”
“Burglary.”
“Burglary was six.”
“Well, I was in seven,” the Serbian said, peevishly.
“I was in five. Manslaughter.”
“Nice.”
“I was a little drunk.”
“Life is death if you don’t have a little drink every now and then,” the Serbian concluded wisely, and chugged from the bottle.
They fell silent. It was not unreasonable to suspect that they could smell my fear and were just about to slit my throat and take my money. When I sensed one of them shuffling his feet and moving toward me, I opened my eyes. They were staring at me with bemused expressions.
“The child’s awake,” the Sarajevan said.
“Where are you headed?” the Serbian asked me.
“[REDACTED],” I said.
“What for?”
“To visit my grandfather.”
“If Grandma had balls, she would be Grandpa,” the Sarajevan said, for no apparent reason.
“Do you have a pretty sister we could be very nice to?” the Serbian asked and licked his lips.
“No,” I said.
My grandfather was dead, and, when he was not, he did not live in [REDACTED]. I did have a sister. The truth was that my destination was Murska Sobota. I had a wad of money in my pocket and was on a mission to buy a freezer for my family.
Some weeks before I set out on this journey, my father had called a family meeting. “There comes a time in the life of every family,” he’d said, “when it becomes necessary to acquire a large freezer.” The freezer compartment in the fridge was no longer spacious enough for us. We needed to store food—meat, mainly—for growing children; we needed to have available at all times the supplies for an improvised feast for numerous family friends. “The very well-being of our family requires new investments,” my father said. “Abundance demands storage.” My father liked to play the family-democracy game, and we often had to sit through this kind of congress so that we could vote for a decision that Father had already made. As usual, there were no objections: my mother, although she wanted a freezer, rolled her eyes at my father’s rhetoric; in my usual seventeen-year-old manner, I made sure that I was visibly indifferent to all that was said; my sister was taking notes, much too slowly. She was thirteen at the time, and still invested in the perfection of her handwriting.
To my utter surprise, I was unanimously elected to be the purchaser of the freezer. Father worked in mysterious ways: he had researched the biggest model available on the lousy market of socialist [REDACTED]—a six-hundred-litre one—and he had somehow discovered that the best price was in Murska Sobota, a small town deep in Slovenia, not far from the Hungarian border. I was to take the night train to [REDACTED], then a bus to Murska Sobota, where I would spend the following night at a hotel ambitiously called Evropa. The next day, I was to deliver the money to a man named Stanko, and that was where my mission ended—Stanko would arrange the shipment, and all I needed to do was come home safely.
The Sarajevan looked at me intently, as if deciding whether or not to do me in for my obvious lies. He wore a suit and a tie, but his shoes looked shitty, the soles peeling off. Blinking very slowly, as if counting time with his eyes, he asked me, “Do you fuck?”
“What?”
“Do you fuck? Do you use your dick the way it is supposed to be used?”
“A little.”
“I love to fuck,” the Serbian said.
“There is nothing sweeter than a fuck,” the Sarajevan said.
“Yeah,” the Serbian said wistfully, and rubbed his crotch. He had tattooed knuckles; he wore a leather jacket and shoes so pointy they looked as if he had sharpened them so that they could easily penetrate the skulls of his enemies.
Despite having voted for my deployment on the freezer mission, my mother had worried about me travelling. I, on the other hand, was excited: Murska Sobota sounded exotic and dangerous. This was the first time I’d be away from home alone, on the road, my first opportunity to live through the kind of experience from which a real poem might spring. For I was a budding poet; I had filled entire notebooks with verses on teen-age longing and the attendant crushing boredom. I equipped myself for the expedition with a fresh notebook, extra pencils, a book of Rimbaud’s poems—my Bible (“While swept downstream on indifferent Rivers / I felt the boatmen’s tow-ropes slacken”), several packs of Marlboros (rather than the usual crappy Drinas I smoked), and a single contraceptive pill I’d got in exchange for a live triple LP by Emerson, Lake & Palmer that I no longer cared about, as I had moved on to the Sex Pistols.
I was an unwilling virgin, my bones draped in amorous flesh. Consequently, I held the belief, not uncommon among adolescent males, that beyond the constraining circles of family, friends, and prudish high-school girlfriends there lay a vast, wild territory of pure sex, where the merest physical or eye contact led to copulation unbounded. I was ready for it: in preparation for the journey, I had tested a number of scenarios in my hormone-addled brain and determined that the crucial moment would be when I offered the woman the pill, thereby expressing my gentlemanly concern and responsibility—no female would be able to say no to that.
“You look like a smart kid,” the Sarajevan said. “Let’s see if you can figure out this riddle.”

“Let’s hear it,” the Serbian said.
“It has no head, but it has a hundred legs, a thousand windows, and five walls. It is never the same, but it is always almost the same. It is black and white and green. It disappears, and then it comes back. It smells of dung and straw and machine oil. It is the biggest thing in the world, but it can fit into the palm of your hand.”
The Sarajevan watched me intently, stroking his three-day beard, as though remembering how he was at my age, before he boarded the drunken boat of adulthood, before he discovered the answer to the riddle.
“It’s a house,” the Serbian said.
“No house has a hundred legs, you stupid fuck,” the Sarajevan said.
“Don’t call me stupid,” the Serbian said and rose to face him, his hands curled into fists.
“All right, all right,” the Sarajevan said. He stood up and embraced the Serbian. They hugged and kissed each other’s cheeks several times, then sat down. I hoped that the riddle had been forgotten, but the Sarajevan would not let it go. He poked my knee with his shitty shoe and said, “What is it, kid?”
“I don’t know.”
“An elephant,” the Serbian said.
“Shut up,” the Sarajevan said. The Serbian leapt up, ready for a punch; the Sarajevan got up; they kissed each other’s cheeks; they sat down.
“Respect,” the Serbian muttered. “Or I will crack your fucking skull open.”
The Sarajevan ignored him. “What is it?” he asked me. I pretended I was thinking.
“Everything,” the Serbian said. “It is everything.”
“With all due respect, brother, that is not the correct answer.”
“Who says?”
“Well, everything does not disappear and come back.”
“Says who?”
“Everybody knows that doesn’t happen.”
“I say it does.”
“Everything cannot fit into the palm of your hand.”
“I say it can,” the Serbian said and got to his feet, fists as tightly clenched as ever. The Sarajevan stayed in his seat, shaking his head, apparently deciding against smashing the Serbian’s face in.
“All right,” he said, “if it is that important to you, it is everything.”
“Because it is,” the Serbian said and then turned to me. “Isn’t it?”
The blazing clarity of dawn: light creeping from beyond muddy fields; a plane leaving a white scar across the sky; drunken soldiers howling songs of love and rape in the next compartment. The men had quieted down, exhausted by their own babbling, and I dropped off. When I woke up, they were gone, leaving a stench of sweaty mindlessness behind. I noted down the conversation and the riddle as I remembered them, then many other things. On this trip, I was happy to realize, everything was notable.
In [REDACTED], I boarded a bus to Murska Sobota. The quaint hills of Zagorje, with their picture-postcard houses and the occasional fairy-tale castle mounted on a hillock; a healthy, well-dressed peasant leading a herd of fat cows across the horizon; chickens pecking for worms in the middle of a dirt road: I voraciously noted it all down—it was as though someone had prettied up the land for my arrival. The man sitting next to me was invested in a crossword puzzle; he frowned and refrowned, fellating his pen. His cuffs were threadbare, his knuckles bruised; his ring stone was twisted toward his middle finger. Many of his letters were too big for the little squares. At some point, he turned his impeccably shaved face to me and asked, as though I were his assistant taking notes, “The biggest city in the world?” “[REDACTED],” I said and he returned to the puzzle.
This happened in 1981, when I was long and skinny; my legs hurt and I could not stretch them in the cramped bus. Pus accumulated in my budding pimples; there was an arbitrary erection in progress. This was youth: a perpetual sense of unease that made me long for a place where my discomfort would seem natural, where I could wallow in my own wounds. My parents, however, believed that it was their duty to guide me to a good, pleasant place, where I could be normal. They arranged spontaneous conversations about my future, during which they insisted that I declare what it was that I wanted from life. I responded with derivations of Rimbaud’s rants about the unknown quantity awakening in our era’s universal soul, about “scents, sounds, colors, and thought mounting thought,” etc. Needless to say, they were terrified by the fact that they had no idea what I was talking about. Parents know nothing about their children; no matter what they believe, the children are always one step ahead. My soliloquies often made Father regret that he hadn’t belted me more when I was little; Mother secretly read my poetry—I found traces of her worried tears staining the pages of my notebooks. I knew that the whole purpose of the freezer project was to confront me with what Father called “the laundry of life” (although Mother always did his laundry)—to have me live through the kind of banal, quotidian operation that constituted my parents’ existence and see that such operations were necessary. They wanted me to join the great community of people who made food collection and storage the central organizing principle of their lives.
Food—bah! I forgot to eat the chicken-and-pepper sandwich my mother had made for me. In my notebook, I waxed poetic about the alluring possibility of simply continuing on past Murska Sobota and never buying the freezer. I would throw myself into the infinity of lifedom, taking the train to Austria, then on to [REDACTED]. I would renounce college and the future of food storage and buy a one-way ticket to the utterly unforeseeable. Sorry, I would tell my parents, but I had to do it. I had to prove that one could have a long, happy life without ever owning a freezer. “Inscribed in every journey is the frightening, exhilarating possibility of no return. This is why we say goodbye,” I wrote in my notebook. “You knew that it could happen when you sent me to the monstrous city, to the endless night, when you sent me to Murska Sobota.”
I had never checked into a hotel before. I worried that the receptionist at the Hotel Evropa would not let me in because I was too young. I worried that I did not have enough cash or that my documents would be unexpectedly revealed as forgeries. I practiced the lines I would have to deliver at the reception desk, and the rehearsal quickly turned into a fantasy in which a pretty receptionist checked me in with lassitude, then took me up to my room only to rip off her hotel uniform and submerge me in a sea of pleasure. The fantasy was duly noted in my book.
Needless to say, the receptionist was an elderly man, hairy and cantankerous, named Franc. When I arrived, he was checking in a foreign couple, attired for travelling convenience in sneakers, khakis, and waterproof jackets. They wanted something from him, something he wasn’t willing to concede, and by their open vowels and nasal whining I understood that they were American. I didn’t know how to assess the age of human beings who were older than me, but the woman looked much younger than my mother, perhaps because her hands were smooth and unworn. Her husband was shorter than she was, wrinkles rippling away from his eyes, a dimple in his chin deep enough to hold a screw. He kept both of his knuckly hands on the reception desk, as though he were about to leap over it and charge at the receptionist. Franc had a thin mustache that lay on his upper lip like hair sediment. On his neck there were sinister parallel sets of fingernail scratches.

I remember all this, even though I didn’t write it down, because I spent an eternity waiting for the Americans to complete their check-in. I began imagining a conversation I would have with the woman if we happened to share an elevator while her unseemly husband was safely locked up somewhere else. In my high-school English, I would tell her that I liked her face flushed with pilgrimage, that I wanted to hold the summer dawn in my arms. We would stagger, embracing, to her room, where we wouldn’t even make it to the bed before, etc. Her name, I decided, was Elizabeth.
“Thank you,” she said finally, and stepped away from the desk.
“You’re welcome,” Franc said.
He had no interest in me, for I presented no challenge: he could speak Slovenian to me and he could easily disregard any of my demands. He took my [REDACTED] and my money and gave me in return a large key attached to a wooden pear with the number 504 carved into it.
Elizabeth and her husband were still waiting for the elevator, whispering to each other. They glanced at me and did what Americans do (as I learned much later) whenever they make unwanted eye contact: they raised their eyebrows, rolled their lips inward, and brightened their faces with expressions of innocent disinterest. I said nothing; nor did I smile. On the pear that Elizabeth was holding I saw the number 505, so when they stepped out I followed them. My room was opposite theirs, and as we were each crossing our respective thresholds Elizabeth looked back at me and flashed a splendid smile.
It was in Murska Sobota that I first confronted the ineluctable sadness of hotel rooms: the untouched notepad; the bedspread with infernal purple flowers; the black-and-white photograph of a soulless seaside resort; the garbage can lined with crumpled tissues that suggested a messy quickie. The window looked over the roof of a concrete parking garage, in the middle of which there was a vast puddle, shimmering like a desert mirage. There was no way I was going to spend a night alone in this cave of sorrow. I needed to find a place where comely Slovenian girls stood in clusters, steadily rejecting the clumsy advances of Slovenian boys, preserving their maidenheads for a pill-carrying boy from [REDACTED], his body a treasure to squander.
Murska Sobota’s main street appeared to have been depopulated in a hurry; only the occasional empty bus drove by, its interior lights dimmed. There were no cafés or bars or young people that I could see, only closed stores, whose windows displayed stiff mannequins with their arms spread in obscure gestures of welcome, towers of concentric pots looming over families of frying pans, single shoes lined up on racks, so different in size and shape that each one seemed to represent a missing person. I spotted the appliance store where I would purchase my family’s entry into the future. In the window an enormous freezer glowed like a treasure chest in a commercial.
I decided to explore the side streets and found nothing but a slumbering row of houses, the nightmarish murmur of television sets passing through a thousand quiet windows. Here and there the sky was stained with stars. A neon sign in the distance announced the name of a bar called Bar, and there I went.
There was nobody in Bar except a bearded, frog-faced man, whose chin rested on the brim of his beer stein. A cloud of smoke hung as thick as a ghost above him. Without lifting his head, the man looked at me intently, as though he had been waiting for me to arrive with an important message. Message I had none, so I sat as far away from him as possible, at a table near the bar, which was tended by nobody I could see. I lit a cigarette, determined to wait for some exemplar of female beauty to walk in.
The man lit a cigarette, too; he exhaled as though releasing his soul through his mouth. I began making up a poem in which the narrator walked into an empty bar, smoked and drank alone, and then discovered that the bartender was dead, slumped in a chair behind the bar, his left hand reaching for a stein of still foaming beer. I had left my notebook in the hotel, so I could not write it down, but I persevered, coming up with rhymes and avoiding looking at the man. Most human beings die without other people noticing, and I understood that I could meet the same fate that night. When they found my corpse, with its stack of cash and its mysterious single pill, they would ask themselves, “Where were we when he needed us? Why didn’t we deflower him before he perished?”
The man stood up and tottered toward me. The shoulders of his jacket extended almost to his elbows, as though he had abruptly shrunk; a purple tie grew out of his shirt; he wore a little hat with a mangy feather stuck in its band. He sat down at my table, mumbling a greeting. I turned back toward the bar, looking again for a bartender. The man grumbled and gibbered, pointing toward the bar, and I nodded understandingly. The sounds gradually formed sentences, punctuated by an occasional snort or the sound of his hand slamming the table. I could not figure out whether he was pissed off or pleased by my presence in his lair.
Eventually, a waitress planted two large foaming steins between us. She put a warm hand on my shoulder, asking, apparently, if I was O.K. She was so voluminous her face seemed upholstered; she smelled of cake and cookies. The drunk raised his glass and held it in front of me until I clinked it with mine. We drank and wiped the foam off our lips with the backs of our hands. He sighed in approval; I exhaled. We drank and smoked in silence.
More beer came, and the man decided to open up to me: he leaned forward and back, he waved his hands in derision, he pointed his finger in various directions, and then he started crying, tears streaming down his cheeks, which were webbed with capillaries.
“Everything is O.K.,” I said. “Everything will be fine.” But he just shook his head. There seemed to be no hope or relief for him. The waitress came over, distributed more beer, and dabbed at his face with her dishrag, as though she were used to cleaning his tear-crusted cheeks. The bar was dark and empty; I was drunk. The waitress wiped glasses listlessly behind the bar; time passed in silence. “What will become of the world when you leave?” Rimbaud wrote. “No matter what happens, no trace of now will remain.” I started crying, too.
By the time I left Bar, my sleeve was wet with tears and snot. I could recall the waitress wiping my face at least once with her rag that stank of rancid dishwater. I gave her what seemed to me a large chunk of the freezer money and she locked the door behind me. The man was still inside, his head carefully deposited in a clearing in the forest of steins. As I stepped out onto the vacant streets of Murska Sobota, a wave of euphoria surged through me. This was experience: I had lost my head and participated in a spontaneous outpouring of emotion; I had drunk with a disgusting stranger, as Rimbaud surely had in [REDACTED], once upon a time; I had said fuck the fuck off to the responsible life my parents had in store for me; I had spent time in the underworld of Murska Sobota and emerged soaked with sweat and tears; I had a magic pill in my pocket. I needed someone to love me tonight.

I found myself in a park infused with the dung-and-straw smell of budding trees and fledgling grass. At the center of the park, there was a copper-green statue of a partisan with a rifle pointed at the darkened treetops. A man in a fur hat held a leash under a weak gas lamp while his Irish setter ran in circles with an imaginary friend, stopping every so often to look up hopefully at its owner. The fur hat was the same auburn color as the dog, and for a moment I thought the man was wearing a dead puppy on his head. Just beyond the reach of the light, a couple were groping, their hands stuck deep inside each other.
I was just giving up on finding love when, at a pedestrian crossing, I spotted two young women, arm in arm, neatly clad in long coats. Their heels clacked as they crossed the street toward me; they giggled and chattered, their faces made up, their hair dewed with sourceless glimmer. One of them had a long, narrow chin; the other had big, dark eyes. They cut across the park at a brisk pace, avoiding the unlit edges. I followed them. They left the park and took the main street, down which a cistern truck crawled; two men in high rubber boots were washing the street with snaky hoses. The asphalt glistened; the women scuttled across the border between wet and dry. The strong stream from one of the hoses rushed toward my shoes and soaked them, so that when I entered dry territory I left footprints behind.
Abruptly, the women stopped in front of the appliance store and examined my illuminated freezer. One of them turned to look at me, and, in panic, I stopped at a travel-agency window with a crude faded collage of sunny islands in the Adriatic, photographed from above. The women started walking again, quickening their pace until it matched the beating of my heart. It was impossible to turn back now, for we were bound together in this absurd pursuit. They turned the corner, and I ran after them, sure that we were finally reaching our goal.
Around the corner, they were standing with a man dressed in denim, his large shovel-shaped hands resting comfortingly on their shoulders as they pointed at me. He smiled and called me over, and for an insane instant I thought that they were inviting me to party with them, but then he started unambiguously sprinting toward me. I took off at the speed of fear, charging down the main street, splashing through puddles. Lighter than a cork, I danced forth on the waves. I did not dare turn to see where my pursuer was, but I heard his big feet hitting the ground steadily behind me. Oh, the horror of your body not living up to the intensity of your fear—no matter how fast I wanted to run, my feet moved slowly, slipping on the wet pavement. At some point, he abandoned the pursuit, but I kept running.
The Hotel Evropa emerged before me on a wholly unfamiliar street. Soaked to the bone, I savagely pushed and pulled the entrance door, until Franc, miserable in the middle of his twenty-four-hour shift, unlocked it for me. I crept past him, focussing on each of my steps so as not to appear drunk. I pressed the elevator button and waited patiently, while my center of gravity rode the surf of my inebriation. I would have waited all night, for I did not want to exhibit my wobblability, let alone ascend the eternal stairs to the fifth floor, but Franc barked at me that the elevator was already there—indeed, the door was wide open. I stepped into it and rode upward, inhaling the smell of my own sweat like a firefighter taking in oxygen.
The key would not enter the lock, no matter how hard I pushed. Everything was wrong: I kicked the door with my knee, and then with my foot, and then again and again. Need I say it hurt? Need I say that the pain made everything worse? Need I say that I was terrified when I heard the lock turning and the door opened and there stood Elizabeth, pulling the flaps of a peignoir over her uncoverable breasts? Her skin glowed, her tresses were ruffled; she smelled of dreams. “How can I help you?” is what she probably said. I said nothing. Her husband was snoring so loudly that I thought he was faking it, the pitiful coward. She looked straight into my eyes; in her eyes there was love. I wanted to take hold of her hand, with its rings like bejewelled palaces; I wanted to kiss her; I wanted her to leave her stertorous husband and cultivate me in the garden of my youth. All I needed to spark a conflagration of our heated bodies was the right word. So I said, “Pill?”
“Excuse me?” she said.
I excavated the pill from my change pocket and offered it to her on the palm of my hand—it was tiny in its cutout piece of packaging. She looked at it, baffled, then turned around to check whether her unwitting husband was still asleep.
“What is it, honey?” the husband called, stirring. I quickly put the pill back in my pocket. Seeing that, as young as I was, I was a considerate gentleman, Elizabeth flashed a barely perceptible smile, and I understood that we were in it together now. So when the husband came to the door in his baseball-patterned pajamas, I said, as innocently as I could, “Maybe you have pill? For head?” I pointed at my head, lest there be any confusion as to whose head we were talking about.
“No, I am sorry,” Elizabeth said and started closing the door.
“Maybe aspirin?” I said. “One aspirin? Aspirin?”
She shut the door and turned the lock twice. Clearly, I had not said the right word. I had not considered this outcome. I was sure that we had connected, that electricity had flowed between our trembling bodies. Swaying before the cruelly closed door, I wanted to knock, to clarify to Elizabeth that, yes, I was in love with her, and that, no, I didn’t mind that she was married. I didn’t do it; the door was as closed as closed can be. I could hear them murmuring conspiratorially, like husband and wife, and I recognized that love was on the other side, and I had no access to it.
But the beauty of youth is that reality never quells desire, so when I entered my room I left the door ajar, in case Elizabeth suddenly decided to tiptoe across the hallway. Every now and then, I peered out, hoping to see her door slowly opening, hoping to see her lustfully scurrying my way. I was peering out for the third or fourth time when Franc strode out of the elevator, stopped at Elizabeth’s door, and knocked. She opened it, whispered something, and pointed at me. For one last delusional moment, I thought that she had called him up to ask about me—and there I stood in the crack of my door, grinning like a happy dog.

Franc charged over and pushed my door open. With a flashing swing of his hand from his hip to my face, he slapped me. My cheek burned, my eyes filled with fiery tears. I retreated toward the bed, stumbled, and fell on the floor. Franc kicked me and kept kicking me: I felt the tip of his shoe sinking into the flesh of my buttocks and thighs, then pounding against my ribs and coccyx.
The floor stank of machine oil. Franc didn’t kick me in the face, although he could have. He spat not on me but on the floor next to me. He didn’t yell; he just snarled and growled. The rapid fire of kicks, it seemed, was not easy on him; when he finally stopped, he was panting. As he left, he calmly told me that if he heard the tiniest peep out of me he would beat me to a pulp and pull me by my ears onto the street and let the police have fun with me all night long. He was a good, if unpleasant, man, Franc was. He even slowly, carefully closed the door behind him.
I lay in the dark, unable to move, and finally fell asleep. The fluorescent lights in the hall hummed; the elevator thudded going up, coming down. I dreamed of war, of might and right, of utterly unforeseeable logic. I woke up wishing I were home, waking to the smell of French toast and my father’s aftershave and my sister’s banana shampoo. The weather forecast would be on the radio (my parents liked to know the future), my sister pouting because she couldn’t listen to her music program. I would walk in and derisively submit to my mother’s kiss. [REDACTED] would be ready.
I stood up and unpacked my mother’s chicken-and-pepper sandwich. It was stale, the peppers mushy and bitter. I turned on the lights, found my notebook, and, after staring at the blank page for a long time, I wrote a poem called “Love and Obstacles.” The first lines were: “There are walls between the world and me, / and I have to walk through them to get to you_.”_
My body coated in a dull, bruised pain, I went to the store and delivered the money to Stanko. He had a steel-wool beard, and the veins bulged on his hands as he counted and recounted the money. I was short a few dinars and told him that I had been robbed on the train: two brazen criminals had emptied my pockets but had failed to find the rest of the money in my bag. Stanko stared at me until he believed me, then shook his head, appalled at a world that stole from its children. He made a note on the form in front of him, then showed me where to sign. He shook my hand earnestly and heartily, as though congratulating me. When he offered me a cigarette, I took it and asked for another. We examined the freezer. Stanko seemed proud of it, as though he had created it himself. It was impressive: enormous, blazing white, and coffinlike in its emptiness; it smelled of clean, subzero death. It would come to us in two or three weeks, he said, and if it didn’t we should call him.
I slept on the bus and I slept on the night train, waking up only when my stomach started growling, and when my body stiffened and started hurting again. I had no money to buy food, so I simply relived the chicken-and-pepper sandwich. Dawn was ascending; my compartment was freezing cold. I saw a horse grazing alone in a field, inexplicably wrapped in nylon; a copse of trees like toothpick tombstones; clouds on the horizon filled with an eternity of tears. When I arrived home, breakfast was waiting.
That day, my mother washed the jeans I had worn in Murska Sobota. The pill in my pocket disintegrated—nothing was left but a nugget of foil and plastic. The freezer arrived seventeen days later. We filled it to the brim with veal and pork, lamb and beef, chicken and peppers. When the war began, in the spring of 1992, and the electricity in the city of [REDACTED] was cut off, everything in the freezer thawed and rotted in less than a week. 

