        Nineteen—seventy—one  was  the  Year  of  Spaghetti.  In  1971,  I  cooked  spaghetti  to  live,  and  lived  to  cook  spaghetti.  Steam  ris-  ing  from  the  pot  was  my  pride  and  joy,  tomato  sauce  bubbling  up  in  the  sauce-  pan  my  one  great  hope  in  life.  I  went  to  a  cooking  specialty  store  and  bought  a  kitchen  timer  and  a  huge  alu-  minum  pot,  big  enough  to  bathe  a  Ger-  man  shepherd  in,  then  went  around  to  all  the  supermarkets  that  catered  to  foreign-  ers,  gathering  an  assortment  of  odd-  sounding  spices.  I  picked  up  a  pasta  cookbook  at  the  bookstore,  and  bought  tomatoes  by  the  dozen.  I  purchased  every  brand  of  spaghetti  I  could  lay  my  hands  on,  simmered  every  sauce  known  to  man.  Fine  particles  of  garlic,  onion,  and  olive  oil  swirled  in  the  air,  forming  a  harmoni-  ous  cloud  that  penetrated  every  corner  of  my  tiny  apartment,  permeating  the  floor  and  the  ceiling  and  the  walls,  my  clothes,  my  books,  my  records,  my  tennisracquet,  my  bundles  of  old  letters.  It  was  a  fra-  grance  one  might  have  smelled  on  an-  cient  Roman  aqueducts.  This  is  a  story  from  the  Yearof  Spa-  ghetti,  1971  A.D.  As  a  rule,  I  cooked  spaghetti,  and  ate  it,  by  myself.  I  was  convinced  that  spa-  ghetti  was  a  dish  best  enjoyed  alone.  I  can't  really  explain  why  I  felt  that  way,  but  there  it  is.  I  always  drank  tea  with  my  spaghetti  and  ate  a  simple  lettuce-and-cucumber  salad.  I'd  make  sure  I  had  plenty  of  both.  I  laid  everything  out  neatly  on  the  table  and  enjoyed  a  leisurely  meal,  glancing  at  the  paper  as  I  ate.  From  Sunday  to  Sat-  urday,  one  Spaghetti  Day  followedan-  other.  And  each  new  Sunday  started  a  brand-new  Spaghetti  Week.  Every  time  I  sat  down  to  a  plate  of  spaghetti-especially  on  a  rainy  after-  noon-I  had  the  distinct  feeling  that  somebody  was  about  to  knock  on  my  door.  The  person  who  I  imagined  was  about  to  visit  me  was  different  each  time.  Sometimes  it  was  a  stranger,  sometimes  someone  I  knew.  Once,  it  was  a  girl  with  slim  legs  whom  I'd  dated  in  high  school,  and  once  it  was  myself,  from  a  few  years  back,  come  to  pay  a  visit.  Another  time,  ;;  it  was  William  Holden,  with  Jennifer  é  Jones  on  his  arm.  William  Holden?  Not  one  of  these  people,  however,  actually  ventured  into  my  apartment.  SEYMOUR  C  They  hovered  just  outside  the  door,  without  knocking,  like  fragments  of  memory,  and  then  slipped  away.  Spring,  summer,  and  fall,  I  cooked  and  cooked,  as  if  cooking  spaghetti  were  an  act  of  revenge.  Like  a  lonely,  jilted  girl  throwing  old  love  letters  into  the  fireplace,  I  tossed  one  handful  of  spaghetti  after  another  into  the  pot.  Id  gather  up  the  trampled-down  shadows  of  time,  knead  them  into  the  shape  of  a  German  shepherd,  toss  them  into  the  roiling  water,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt.  Then  I'd  hover  over  the  pot,  oversized  chopsticks  in  hand,  until  the  timer  dinged  its  plaintive  note.  Spaghetti  strands  are  a  crafty  bunch,  and  I  couldn't  let  them  out  of  my  sight.  If  I  were  to  turn  my  back,  they  might  well  slip  over  the  edge  of  the  pot  and  vanish  into  the  night.  The  night  lay  in  silent  ambush,  hoping  to  waylay  the  prodigal  strands.  Spaghetti  alla  parmigiana  Spaghetti  alla  napoletana  Spaghetti  al  cartoccio  Spaghetti  aglio  e  olio  Spaghetti  alla  carbonara  Spaghetti  della  pina  And  then  there  was  the  pitiful,  name-  less  leftover  spaghetti  carelessly  tossed  into  the  fridge.  Born  inheat,  the  strands  of  spaghetti  washed  down  the  river  of  1971  and  vanished.  I  mourn  them  all-all  the  spaghetti  of  the  year  1971.  en  the  phone  rang  at  3:20  P.M.  I  was  sprawled  out  on  the  tatami,  staring  at  the  ceiling.  A  pool  of  winter  sunlight  had  formed  in  the  place  where  Tlay.  Like  a  dead  fly  I  lay  there,  vacant,  in  a  December  spotlight.  At  first,  I  didn't  recognize  the  sound  as  the  phone  ringing.  It  was  more  like  an  unfamiliar  memory  that  had  hesi-  tantly  slipped  in  between  the  layers  of  air.  Finally,  though,  it  began  to  take  shape,  and,  in  the  end,a  ringing  phone  was  unmistakably  what  it  was.  It  was  one  hundred  per  cent  a  phone  ring  in  one-hundred-per-cent  real  air.  Still  sprawled  out,  I  reached  over  and  picked  up  the  receiver.  On  the  other  end  was  a  girl,  a  girl  so  indistinct  that,  by  four-thirty,  she  might  very  well  have  disappeared  altogether.  She  was  the  ex-girlfriend  of  a  friend  of  mine.  Something  had  brought  them  to-  gether,  this  guy  and  this  indistinct  girl,  and  something  had  led  them  to  break  up.  I  had,  I  admit,  reluctantly  played  a  role  in  getting  them  together  in  the  first  place.  &quot;Sorry  to  bother  you,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  do  you  know  where  he  is  now?&quot;  I  looked  at  the  phone,  running  my  eyes  along  the  length  of  the  cord.  The  cordwas,  sure  enough,  attached  to  the  phone.  I  managed  a  vague  reply.  There  was  something  ominous  in  the  girl's  voice,  and  whatever  trouble  was  brewing  I  knew  that  I  didn't  want  to  get  involved.  &quot;Nobody  will  tell  me  where  he  is,&quot;  she  said  in  a  chilly  tone.  &quot;Everybody's  pre-  tending  they  don't  know.  But  there's  something  important  I  have  to  tell  him,  so  please-tell  me  where  he  is.  I  promise  I  won't  drag  you  into  this.  Where  is  he?&quot;  &quot;I  honestly  don't  know,&quot;  I  told  her.  &quot;I  haven't  seen  him  in  a  long  time.&quot;  My  voice  didn't  sound  like  my  own.  I  was  telling  the  truth  about  not  having  seen  him  for  a  long  time,  butnotabout  the  other  part-I  did  know  his  address  and  phone  number.  Whenever  I  tell  a  lie,  something  weird  happens  to  my  voice.  No  comment  from  her.  The  phone  was  like  a  pillar  of  ice.  Then  all  the  objects  around  me  turned  into  pillars  of  ice,  as  if  I  were  in  a  J.  G.  Ballard  science-fiction  story.  &quot;I  really  don't  know,&quot;  I  repeated.  &quot;He  went  away  a  long  time  ago,  without  say-  ing  a  word.&quot;  The  girl  laughed.  &quot;Give  me  a  break.  He's  not  that  clever.  We're  talking  about  a  guy  who  has  to  make  a  lot  of  noise  no  matter  what  he  does.&quot;  She  was  right.  The  guy  really  was  a  bit  of  a  dim  bulb.  But  I  wasn't  about  to  tell  her  where  he  was.  Do  that,  and  next  I'd  have  him  on  the  phone,  giving  me  an  earful.  I  was  through  with  getting  caught  up  in  other  people's  messes.  I'd  already  dug  a  hole  in  the  back  yard  and  buried  everything  that  needed  to  be  buried  in  it.  Nobody  could  ever  dig  it  up  again.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  like  me,  do  you?&quot;  she  said  suddenly.  I  had  no  idea  what  to  say.  I  didn't  particularly  dislike  her.  I  had  no  real  im-  pression  of  her  at  all.  It's  hard  to  have  a  bad  impression  of  somebody  you  have  no  impression  of.   &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  saidagain.  &quot;But  I'm  cooking  spaghetti  right  now.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry?&quot;  &quot;I  said  I'm  cooking  spaghetti,&quot;  I  lied.  I  hadno  idea  why  I  said  that.  But  the  lie  had  already  become  a  part  of  me-so  much  so  that,  at  that  moment  at  least,  it  didn't  feellike  a  lie  at  all.  I  went  ahead  and  filled  an  imaginary  pot  with  imaginary  water,  lit  an  imagi-  nary  stove  withan  imaginary  match.  &quot;So?&quot;  she  asked.  I  sprinkled  imaginary  salt  into  the  boiling  water,  gently  lowered  a  handful  of  imaginary  spaghetti  into  the  imagi-  nary  pot,  set  the  imaginary  kitchen  timer  for  eight  minutes.  &quot;So  I  can't  talk.  The  spaghetti  will  be  ruined.&quot;  She  didn't  say  anything.  &quot;I'm  really  sorry,  but  cooking  spa-  ghetti  is  a  delicate  operation.&quot;  The  girl  was  silent.  The  phone  in  my  hand  began  tofreeze  again.  &quot;So  could  you  call  me  back?&quot;  I  added  hurriedly.  &quot;Because  you're  in  the  middle  of  making  spaghetti?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Yeah.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  making  it  for  someone,  or  are  you  going  to  eat  alone?&quot;  &quot;T'll  eat  it  by  myself,&quot;  I  said.  She  held  her  breath  for  a  long  time,  then  slowly  breathed  out.  &quot;There's  no  way  you  could  know  this,  but  I'm  really  in  trouble.  I  don't  know  what  todo.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  can't  help  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;There's  some  money  involved,  too.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  &quot;He  owes  me  money,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  lent  him  some  money.  I  shouldn't  have,  but  I  had  to.&quot;  I  was  quiet  for  a  minute,  my  thoughts  drifting  toward  spaghetti.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  I've  got  the  spaghetti  going,  so  ...&quot;  She  gave  a  listless  laugh.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Say  hito  your  spaghetti  for  me.  I  hope  it  turns  out  O.K.&quot;  &quot;Bye,&quot;  I  said.  When  I  hung  up  the  phone,  the  circle  of  light  on  the  floor  had  shifted  an  inch  or  two.  I  lay  down  again  inthat  pool  of  light  and  resumed  staring  at  the  ceiling.  YT  thinking  about  spaghetti  that  boils  _L.  eternally  but  is  never  done  is  a  sad,  sad  thing.  Now  I  regret,  a  little,  that  I  didn't  tell  the  girl  anything.  Perhaps  I  should  have.  I  mean,  her  ex-boyfriend  wasn't  much  to  start  with-an  empty  shell  of  a  guy  with  artistic  pretensions,  a  great  talker  whom  nobody  trusted.  She  sounded  as  if  she  re-  ally  were  strapped  for  money,  and,  no  matter  what  the  situation,  you've  got  to  payback  what  you  borrow.  Sometimes  I  wonder  what  happened  to  the  girl-the  thought  usually  pops  into  my  mind  when  I'm  facing  a  steaming-  hot  plate  of  spaghetti.  After  she  hung  up  the  phone,  didshe  disappear  forever,  sucked  into  the  4:30  P.M.  shadows?  Was  I  partly  to  blame?  I  want  you  to  understand  my  position,  though.  At  the  time,  I  didn't  want  to  get  involved  with  anyone.  That's  why  I  kept  on  cooking  spaghetti,  all  by  myself.  In  that  huge  pot,  big  enough  to  hold  a  Ger-  man  shepherd.     urum  semolina,  golden  wheat  wafting  in  Italian  fields.  Can  you  imagine  how  astonished  the  Italians  would  be  if  they  knew  that  what  they  were  exporting  in  1971  was  really  Zoneliness?  (Translated,  from  the  Japanese,  by  Philip  Gabriel.)    