THE BEST YEAR OF MY LIFE
By Paul Theroux

I got the appalling news as the whole family watched, all of them chewing and gabbling at the kitchen table, near where the phone hung on the wall. It was a few days before Christmas, so everyone was at home, all six of my siblings, the entire cast assembled at the footlights for this—not tragedy, since tragedy seldom visits the young—this cruel farce. I had just turned nineteen.
So the best year of my life began in the worst way, further proof of the sadism of fate, which only served to convince me that someone somewhere was enjoying my pain—a merciless plotter, perhaps one of Mother’s wickeder allies, if not Mother herself.
“It’s for you,” Mother said, handing me the receiver.
My whole life was about to change: I was going to step into a hole and spend a year in the dark. Typical, I thought, for my life as I lived it then—in bewilderment, frowning at the futility and resenting the squandered time as it unrolled and flapped around me—seemed ragged and plotless: random, rancorous, out of my control, meandering from disorder to chaos, in the general direction of oblivion. In retrospect, from the vantage point of late middle age—from the helpful heights and clear air that are part of aging’s greatest consolations—I see that my life was in fact closely plotted and consequential, with the structural elaboration and subtle motifs of a Victorian novel, interwoven with grace notes, subplots, and coincidences that stretched credulity and yet were inevitable. This life of mine—perhaps all lives?—suffered from an excess of design: nothing was random, nothing wasted. The hole I’d stepped into was a magical thoroughfare that carried me to the future.
Though, as I say, at the time it all appeared to be an aimless monochrome of regret and shame, wrong turns and pointless effort. Whatever befell me, my mother’s shrill cry was always: It’s your own goddam fault! That blame rang in my head for years. Decades after this particular disgrace, when other troubles came my way, I was able to say, “I’ve seen worse”—and really mean it. Much worse than being thirty, with a wife and two small children and no money and recently fired from my teaching job in [REDACTED], struggling to find a house to live in; worse than being fucked up and far from home in 496e646961, or lost in 4368696e61, or hard up and buried alive in [REDACTED]; worse than being cuckolded; worse than hearing “I’m leaving you and I’ve found someone else” in a stifling and pissy phone booth on a crackling receiver stinking of cigarettes; worse than the miserable litigation of (so it seemed) the death sentence of divorce, or losing that house I had struggled to find earlier in this paragraph; worse still than the loss of my father, for an old man’s death is a natural process, even if it has been hastened by a nagging wife and a quarrelling family—worse than anything I was ever to know. This disgrace was entirely a young man’s stupidity, as Mother was to remind me again and again: all my own goddam fault.
That year, I was at college in Amherst most of the time, but back home in Medford for vacations, still one of the family, working to pay my way through tuition bills, travel bills, food bills, room bills.
“It’s for you,” Mother said again, angry now, because in my reverie I had not taken the phone from her.
No matter who was closest to the phone, Mother, our gatekeeper, was the one who answered it. All calls were routed through her, and she insisted on a short cord to keep us visible and audible when we were speaking.
“A girl,” Mother explained to the rest of the table.
Father took his cue. He bit the meat off his fork and said, “Some dizzy blonde.”
“Jay?”
Mona’s voice was flattened, drained of vitality, but with an insinuating weight to it, a desperate muscle of sound, commanding me to listen.
“Hi, there,” I said cheerily, to throw my family off, because all eight of them were holding their knives and forks upright, no longer chewing, so that they could hear better.
“I missed my period. It’s been three weeks. I don’t know what to do. I’m a wreck”—her voice began to falter and break—“and you don’t even care!”
“Yes,” I said, my voice high and insincere, “I do,” and I could see Mother squinting at me, “as a matter of fact.” I stayed jaunty for the sake of the table. “I’ll see you in a few days.”
“No! Tomorrow! It has to be tomorrow. This is serious.” Mona began to cry, snorting and croaking in a way that stung my ear and rang against the fragile skull box of my brain.
As I hung up, cutting off Mona’s yell of complaint, I prepared a smile for the table, and turned to their silent faces. Even four-year-old Gilbert had stopped yammering. My eyes were glazed. I shrugged fatuously.
“Who was that?” Mother asked.
“Nobody you know,” I said. “Nobody special.”
Floyd said, “Oh, sure. I believe that. Indubitably.”
“Jay’s got a girlfriend,” Hubby said, in the slow husky voice of a young boy with a throat full of food. “And I know why.”
Fat Franny, who often asked Mother’s questions for her, said, “Why?”
“So he can look at her panties.”
Rose said, “Don’t be fresh.”
Mother smiled grimly at Father. “Are you going to let him get away with that insolence?”
Father set down his fork with a click, and swung. Both Fred and Floyd leaned back out of the way as Father caught Hubby’s head with the meat of his hand, knocking him sideways off his chair. As the blow connected, Father, overtaken by pity, reached for Hubby’s arm to break his fall, but in his frantic clumsiness crushed him against the radiator instead, so that Hubby scorched his arm and howled.
“Kids wreck a marriage,” Father said, for Mother’s sake.
“Eat,” Mother said to me, because I was goggling at Hubby’s reddened arm. “Your dinner’s getting cold.”
In a moralizing voice, Fred, the eldest, said, “I always tell people not to call me at mealtime.”
“That’s the way it should be,” Mother said.
I had the sense that they suspected something, that the panic and shame showed on my face. But, really, it was all too dreadful for even my family to guess.
Nobody special, I had said; and in fact Mona had become nobody special. Until I heard her voice on the phone, she had almost faded from my mind. A month or so before, I’d seen her for what I thought would be the last time. She lived in a rented room in a big frame house near the center of town, across the road from Emily Dickinson’s house. Our relationship was ending, and I’d visited her to say goodbye. We’d made love, in a joyless ceremony of farewell. I was so inept a lover that I never feared the worst. Pregnancies, I felt, were the result of passion and experience; I was too tentative and unconfident to accomplish such a thing, barely penetrating Mona while she squirmed in frustration, as though I were merely chafing at her, approximating the act.

I’d first noticed Mona the previous spring, walking through the cafeteria, dressed like a scullery maid in a brown uniform and cap and an apron. Later, I saw her behind the counter, serving mashed potatoes with her right hand, ladling gravy with her left. The diners were all, like me, dormitory students. I loved her simple scowling good looks, the loose lock of blond hair at the rim of her cap, her neat narrow nose and skeptical lips, skinny shoulders, and thin fingers. She was beautiful. I took her for an unimpressed townie. Such a person could seem to me aloof and unapproachable; even a dishwasher could strike me as haughty. I had no idea that Mona was actually an honors student, a junior, two years older than me. I watched her at the cafeteria for a month or more, but never saw her smile. I found her sulks arousing.
Then one night I saw her in a bar—she was drinking with friends—and I got up the nerve to speak to her. Her friends left. Drinking seemed to make us equals. She said, “You think you’re so smart,” when I expressed an opinion—I was quoting “Les Fleurs du Mal”; Baudelaire was my hero then. But she liked the fact that I worked weekends at the university chicken farm, scraping and hosing down the cages. “Everyone else is at the football game,” she said, sharing her contempt with me. I could see that, for all her severity, she was on my side, a fellow-worker, paying her own way, and perhaps even oppressed by a mother like mine.
A week or so later, she sneaked me into her room. We lay on her bed, looking at Emily Dickinson’s house, and I recited “Wild Nights—Wild Nights!” We made love. She could tell that I was new to the act. When she found out how old I was, she berated me—she had been drinking—for having deceived her. Still, we met in her room a few more times before deciding not to see each other again. That was before Thanksgiving. Now it was almost Christmas, which was why the phone call (“I missed my period”) had been so unexpected.
Mona’s family lived in another suburb of [REDACTED], a long slow bus ride through streets of dirty ice and soot-crusted snow. As soon as I arrived, she said, “I haven’t told anyone. I can’t tell my parents—they’d kill me. You’re the only person who knows. You have to help me.”
This desperate little speech became an unwelcome refrain. Each time she called—which was almost every day (“It’s her again,” Mother intoned)—I hoped for her to say, “At last!” But she never did. Her frequent letters (“Another one for you,” Mother said. “Is it her?”) were long and gloomy, accusatory and self-lacerating. Why did I ever let myself get involved with an upstart like you? I was still technically a teen-ager. Baudelaire mocked me with his cynical worldliness. I burned Mona’s letters.
Weeks passed. It was January, and Mona was two months along. Still, every phone call or letter raised my hopes and in the same instant sank them. I was back in my dorm room. I woke up each morning dazed and sometimes happy, believing for a brief moment that my predicament had been only a bad dream; I prayed for good news, but nothing changed. And it was worse for Mona by far. I was her only confidant, the only person who could share the burden of her misery.
My brother Fred was in law school in [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] was the wider world, I told myself; people had the solutions to pregnancies there. I visited him in February, staying at his apartment and going to doctors’ offices—just dropping in. Do you have an appointment? __I had no idea how these things worked; I knew that abortion was illegal. I never saw a doctor, which was probably a good thing, because how would I have asked the crucial question?
“Oh, God,” Fred said, when I finally confessed. “Oh, Jesus.” He held his head. His wavy Brylcreemed hair looked frivolous in his whitened fingers. He said, “You’ll have to tell Dad and Ma.”
“No,” I said. Fred’s gasping panic frightened me. “They won’t be able to help. They won’t know what to do. They’ll go nuts.” I could already hear them. I knew every word of accusation they would utter.
Inert, scandalized, feeling complicit because he knew everything, Fred demanded that I leave [REDACTED]. Though I was hurt, I was not surprised. This was myproblem. And, besides, it was painful being in [REDACTED], among the rich, whom I envied and hated, for being able to solve problems like mine with just a wink and an envelope full of money.
Sometime in March, I moved in to Mona’s little off-campus room. She was kinder to me than she had been before. She said, “I need you now. See me through this and I’ll never ask anything more of you. Do you understand? I don’t want to marry you. I just want to have the baby.”
“And then what?”
“Give it away,” she said, blinking at her tears. “Put it up for adoption. There are agencies.”
I was not shocked. This was a simple desperate act, like a crime. The main problem was how to get away with it.
Mona pushed her knuckles against her eyes and became stern. “If my family finds out, I’m dead.”
Mona stopped going to classes. She got a job at a greenhouse in the countryside beyond campus, growing roses. In this way, she kept out of sight. I studied, I did my work, I grew to hate Baudelaire, and I worried all day. Though I still attended lectures and wrote papers and read the required books, I did so in a detached, almost disembodied way, as another person—younger and much simpler than the fellow who woke appalled each day and comforted Mona. Writing home, repeating platitudes about the weather and my studies, I was someone else again, guarded, and yet an earnest member of the family.
That was three people. But I was another man, too: the asparagus picker. I got a job on a work crew for the asparagus harvest. I’d heard about this opportunity from another hard-up student and was welcomed by the farmer, who needed men. The crop was early, and it looked strange to me. Eight-inch spears of asparagus had appeared in clusters all over the wide, bare fields—no leaves, no foliage, just slender, sharp-pointed shoots. I crouched with a dozen field hands, poking my cutter into the earth, severing the spears a few inches below ground level. All the other men were Spanish-speaking, most of them young. They cut the asparagus, muttering to one another, sometimes laughing, as they loaded the boxes and swung them onto the flatbed of the trailer. They did not talk to me except when we were in the back of the truck, riding to a new field.
Then they told me that they were from Puerto Rico and that they spent eight months of the year as migrants, moving slowly north from [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], harvesting whatever was ripe—oranges, peaches, blueberries, sweet corn, tomatoes. They were polite, even pleasant, to me when they found out that I could speak some Spanish. The sunny Puerto Rico they evoked seemed remote and exotic. They cut cane and picked pineapples there. They missed their wives and girlfriends, they said. In September or October, they would go back with the money they’d earned.

“Isla bonita,” I said.
“Isla barata! ” one man replied. And the others chipped in, giving me examples of how cheap it was to live in Puerto Rico.
I picked asparagus every morning for three weeks, until, in mid-May, Mona, who was swollen and obviously pregnant, said, “My parents are asking when I’m coming home. They might visit. We have to get out of here.”
We took a bus to [REDACTED], where I phoned Fred. I had not dared to call ahead, fearing that he would have time to think of an excuse to rebuff us. We had nowhere else to go. Two days there proved to me that Fred didn’t want us. He did not want to know so much. He was fretting again, worrying me with his fear.
He said, “See, what you need is a plan.”
I saw a sign in a store window: “San Juan $49.” It seemed simple. I had the money. I remembered all the shouts of “Má__s barata.” We flew to Puerto Rico and stayed at a cheap hotel for the first few nights, then got a room with a balcony in a tall house in Old San Juan. Though it had been a rash decision, it seemed workable. We felt safe on this island; it was as though we had dreamed it.
It was my first experience of the way travel can turn you into a new person. Away from Fred and our families, we felt older, independent, unobserved. By leaving we had removed ourselves from a dreary reality of intrusions into our world. When people ask you questions you can’t answer, I thought, find new people. We were almost happy in our remoteness, among people who seemed worse off than we were, in a disorderly place that matched my mood. We had enough money to last a month. In the meantime, I would look for a job.
“I’m working on a freighter,” I wrote home. “We’ve just docked in San Juan. I’ll be home in August or September.”
That was yet another person: the deckhand. Mother accepted this lame explanation. Because I was not asking her for anything, she was complacent, or perhaps she was preoccupied—all those children. She had little curiosity about me. She was probably just reassured to hear that I was taking care of myself.
The Caribe [REDACTED] in Puerta de Tierra was looking for help. I applied for a job as a lifeguard, but when the personnel officer heard me speak English he suggested that I apply to the restaurant instead. The customers were mostly English-speaking tourists. I got the job.
I worked from six in the evening until midnight, when I took the bus back to Old San Juan. Now I had a salary. Mona signed up for Spanish classes. She was too big, too hot, too uncomfortable to attempt more than that.
The Puerto Ricans were kind to us. They had two faces: the dutiful solemn and submissive one they presented to gringos—“Anything you say, boss!” (I recognized this from the asparagus fields)—and the noisy, mischievous, helpful face they saved for one another. They treated Mona and me as members of the family. Accustomed to messy problems, they did not ask for explanations. I was grateful, though it took me a while to understand that the reason they were kind was that they saw a young pale pregnant woman and an even younger man—probably not her husband—riding the buses, sitting in the plaza, coming in and out of the stairway of an old building near the expensive restaurant La Zaragozana, where we never ate. They sympathized.
My family believed that I was working on a ship. Mona had told her family that she was teaching school in [REDACTED]. No one would find out the truth. We were too far away. Mona’s mail was sent care of Fred, who forwarded it to her in weekly bundles.
And so two months passed.
The strangeness of San Juan consoled me. The Puerto Ricans took us on faith: not a single soul knew us. I loved that anonymity, which was also a sort of innocence. Here I was just a skinny boy who lived in a room on Calle San Francisco, with a pregnant young woman, and who set off from the plaza at five every evening on the bus to Isla Verde and the Caribe [REDACTED]. We ate soup from a can at almost every meal. At night, when we switched on the light, glossy purplish cockroaches scuttled across the floor. Dust and noise filled the air; the street seemed to pass through the tall windows of our room; even the sea brimmed at our windows. But no one knew us, so there was no shame, only the tedious struggle we shared with everyone else.
Now and then it rained hard—brief summer downpours. I carried an umbrella and wore a panama hat—these were affectations; I was pretending to be seedy. I was reading Graham Greene and Lawrence Durrell. I learned enough Spanish that I seldom needed to speak English. I practiced the Puerto Rican accent, swallowing the “s,” meemo for mismo, and chewing the “y,” joe for yo. I felt that no one saw me until I got to the restaurant, and I discovered that I was almost invisible there, too: I was just a uniform jacket and shirt and bow tie. My job was to take reservations on the phone, to show diners to their tables, to distribute menus, to wish them a pleasant evening. For this I was paid enough to cover the rent and food for Mona and me, and to put a little extra away for our return. Now I understood how a rash decision could become a whole, irreversible life.

Mona weakened, as though her pregnancy were an illness, and she looked at our little room with homesick eyes. She woke in the middle of the night and sobbed. Her ankles swelled. She developed heat rash. Now and then she raged at me, “How did I ever get involved with you!” Or she said, “You are all I have. Please don’t leave me. Just see me through to the end.”
These were like lines in a play I had wandered into, one of those anxious dreams from the deep end. And, as in one of those dreams, where everything that occurs is unexpected yet absurdly logical, I seemed to be leading someone else’s life.
One day, I was late for work. I said to the restaurant manager, “I’m sorry I’m late. My wife is sick—she’s pregnant.”
He was from 50657275 and his beaky nose and hard jaw and hooded eyes gave him the look of an Inca chief. He stared at me with a seriousness that made me uncomfortable. Then he tapped my shoulder.
“Don’t say ‘I’m sorry.’ Never say sorry.” He wagged his finger. “A man doesn’t say sorry.” A few days later he said, “How is your wife? Better, I hope.”
I gave him an answer but did not know what I was saying or who was speaking. I thought, I am whoever you take me to be. I am living five lives at once, and in one of them, of course, I am also working on a freighter. None of these lives represented the person I knew myself to be.

Mona and I saved whatever we could, so we had no spare money. We were like everyone else we saw in San Juan: walking, riding the bus, eating the deep-fried meat pies they called pastelillos, treating ourselves to ice cream, going to bed early. We had no telephone, no radio. The TV in the bar on the corner was tuned to soccer and boxing matches. We never read the newspaper, though I sometimes glanced at the headlines in the daily El Imparcial. We had no idea what was happening in the world beyond Puerto Rico. One day, the landlady told us that the dictator Trujillo had been assassinated in Santo Domingo, and the drama of this news made our nearby plaza festive with the laughter of chattering men.
I grew fond of the disorder that concealed us, the friendly crowds, the narrow sidewalks, even the heat and the sunshine that seemed to soothe people and soften their mood. I was at home amid the cracked yellow stucco, the scrawled-on walls, in the slum beyond the battlements of the city wall called La Perla—the [REDACTED]—where people were much worse off than we were: barefoot children, ragged women, drunken men.
One day, I saw a man I recognized from a provocative political lecture he had given in Amherst, at the time when Mona and I were living together there. He was William Sloane Coffin, a well-known radical, walking with two other men. They pushed past us, talking, and entered La Zaragozana, and, because that was a restaurant we couldn’t afford, I stopped viewing him as a radical. He was a privileged man from the other world.
I wrote a few more dispatches home, explaining that my ship, the freighter, was in port. I fictionalized myself as a seaman, all of the details secondhand from my reading of Kerouac. Mona wrote regularly to her family, sending the letters to Fred, who stamped and mailed them.
And every morning I woke up from a deep sleep with a film of damp heat on my face and remembered that I was living with Mona, who was pregnant, in a room in Old San Juan, and that I was due at work at the [REDACTED] at five-thirty; and I went numb, thinking, Hold on, stay calm, the days are passing, no one knows. There was a baby in Mona; there was a darkness inside me, and a woeful weight on my soul. My thoughts were for Mona and myself, but the woe was: my family must not find out about this shameful wicked business.
Mona was obsessed by the same need for concealment. This need made us quieter, gentler with each other, like a pair of felons, moving with stealth, lying low to avoid detection: fugitives from justice. We never ceased to think of ourselves as sneaks, and though we talked about the pregnancy, we seldom spoke of the baby, except as a problem we were trying to solve.
One day in August, Mona got a letter from an agency in [REDACTED] with the pitiful name the Home for Little Wanderers. The message was that they would accept Mona, see her through the birth of the baby, and then take the child. Hopeful families were waiting for such children. Please rest assured that we will fi__nd a loving home for your child. Mona cried at the letter, but admitted that it was what she wanted: a relief.
She woke that night sobbing, because she had just realized that since we both wore glasses the child would have bad eyes. The thought of sending this myopic child groping into a world of strangers was unbearable.
We bought tickets to [REDACTED]. I told the 50657275vian manager that I would be leaving. He said, “Just as I was getting used to you.”
“Lo siento,” I said, as a joke.
A few days before we left San Juan, the landlady handed us a letter with an American stamp and the Calle San Francisco address—not a letter forwarded from Fred. It was from Mona’s mother. “We know everything,” it began. Mona’s father had gone to [REDACTED], to Fred’s apartment. He had asked to see his daughter. Fred had told him the whole story and then given him our address. “Dad’s on the warpath,” Mona’s mother wrote, “and so is Jay’s family. I had a long talk with them.”
The next days were tense. We half expected Mona’s father to descend on us. But of course we were too far away. Going to San Juan had been a leap in the dark, but it had saved us. No one came. We left for [REDACTED] one hot night. We had taken all our things—pots, towels, sheets—to La Perla, and put them in the arms of a grateful woman.
Mona sat awkwardly on the plane, eight months pregnant. We arrived in [REDACTED] at dawn, and had breakfast in a diner on Boylston Street, then walked into the Public Garden. I had got used to walking very slowly with Mona at my side. Mona said that she felt sick. She sat down on a bench and vomited onto the grass. I held her as she wiped her mouth on my shoulder. And she leaned against me, heavy with trust and resignation. We were like lovers on that hot August morning. At nine o’clock, we walked to the street and hailed a cab.
“Don’t come with me,” she said. She was sparing me. She got in and told the driver to take her to the Home for Little Wanderers. “Joy Street,” she added. The names snatched at my heart.
I called home from a phone booth at Sullivan Square, and took the bus to Elm Street, walking up the long hill to my house, dizzy from the heat and my sleepless night on the plane. From all my other lives, I was returning to the one that I hated, and I dreaded what was to come.
With heavy feet I scuffed up the wooden stairs to the porch, announcing myself on the planks. The front door was open. No one came to greet me. The screen door slapped shut on its spring, the coil lashing the doorframe. I was aware of the wooden steps, the wooden porch, the wooden door as the splintery portal to the Day of Judgment.
“In here,” Mother called from the kitchen.
She was seated grimly with her arms on the kitchen table. Floyd sat in a chair at the far wall, trying not to smile, though he did so, horribly, half gloating, half in pity. Then he crept out of the room, and his eyes said, You’re in for it.
Mother’s face was hawklike, her nose pinched, her lips compressed. “Well!” She seemed to be staring me down, and at last she said, with a screech of triumphant sarcasm, “I hope you’re proud of yourself.”
I hung my head as she berated me.
“And look at your jacket.” She scowled at the vomit stain on my shoulder.
The next days and weeks were easier, because Mona and I had managed to conceal the final deceits of our crime—we ourselves thought of it that way; it was something much worse than an error. Only I knew where she was, and I visited her secretly. She was impatient; holding my hand, she said, “I think it’ll be soon.”

The family that would adopt the child took her to the hospital for the birth—it was a boy. I visited her, I held the baby—a boy with a reddened and contented face. The second time I went to the hospital, Mona said, “The other mothers were laughing after you left. They said, ‘How old is he? He’s just a kid!’ ”
I saw the baby only once. And I did not see Mona again until after she had left the hospital. It was late September and we were back in Amherst, two students again, altered, burdened with the sad story of a lost boy which we could not tell anyone. I was sad but relieved; Mona was simply sad. Some nights she begged me to come to her room, just to hold her while she sobbed. We lay clothed in her narrow bed.
I turned twenty. Mona graduated early, in January, and went away to teach. She wrote a few times, then stopped writing altogether.
I somehow knew that I would never again feel so desperate, so despised, so weak and blamed as I had that year. And I was right. The experience did not make me strong but it gave me a vivid memory of helplessness that I carried with me through my life, a reference point for any other hardship I faced. Sometimes, in a dilemma, I smiled. Someone would say to me, “You’re not going to like what I’m about to tell you.” But, remembering that year, I knew that I could take it.
As for the child, wherever he was, he was better off. Now and then I dreamed that he had found me, and cornered me, and was screaming at me for what I had done—for the fate that I had assigned to him.
Sometimes people speak of an illness they had in childhood, when they read a great deal or learned a language, or of how they gained a skill after a terrible accident. It was like that. I had learned to live by my wits: to survive, to trust my instincts, to be secretive. I knew that my life was elsewhere. I had been right to suspect, long before Mona’s first phone call, that I could not rely on my family, that whatever they knew of me they would use against me, to undermine me.
Afterward, I never went into details with anyone. I could not bear to. The worst year of my life, I used to moan, but as time passed I grew to know it, for all its struggle, as a great year. This whole plot—the beginning, the middle, and the end—had been lived before by others, but I had had to live through it myself to understand it, to know that agony can be an analgesic, that the memory of pain can itself be a painkiller. That year made the rest of my life easier. 

