ASHES
By Cristina Henríquez

I’m at work on Saturday when I get the call. Carina, from the front counter, pages me over the intercom and when I finally get to the phone it’s my older brother, Jano, telling me I might want to sit down because he has upsetting news.
“Tell me,” I say.
“Do you have a chair?”
“Just tell me.”
What I have is a hollow feeling in my stomach the size of a coconut.
“Mamá’s gone,” he says.
“What?” My heart seizes.
“Señora López found her today.”
“Found her? Where was Papi?”
“Are you sitting down?” he asks again.
“Stop asking me that. Why can’t you just answer my questions?”
“It’s a little bit complicated, O.K.?”
“How?”
But he won’t answer that, either. He just suggests we meet when I get off work because we have a lot of things to take care of.
I’m not supposed to use the phone during work hours, but I call Armando as soon as I hang up. I hold the plastic beige contraption trembling next to my ear as I talk. He tells me I should take off early, that my boss will understand because this is an extenuating circumstance. Armando’s never had to work anywhere like this, though, and he doesn’t get the idea that I’m just a body doing a job, not somebody doing it. Still, I tell him I’ll try. He leaves me with “We can go out for dinner if you want. You don’t have to cook.”
I end up staying at Casa de la Carne for my whole shift. Work helps keep my mind off everything. If I’d left early, I would have been a blubbering thing sitting on the curb in the parking lot—the way I can be only in private, or sometimes, when he’s being nice, with Armando. Never in front of my family. I know they think I’m more heartless than them for that, but I know the truth. I know my depths.
The story is that she had a heart attack. She was cooking—like she was always cooking—and she simply fell over on the kitchen floor. Papi was sitting in a wooden chair at the kitchen table, probably smoking a cigarette while she worked, waiting to be served. She fell right at his feet. We think he tried to help her, tried to blow air into her mouth, pumping and puffing. Jano says Papi picked up the phone but couldn’t remember the number for emergency, and, after trying a jumble of numbers over and over again, he just gave up.
“Why didn’t he call one of us?” I say when I see Jano after work.
Jano shrugs. “I don’t think he really knew what was happening.”
We both know Papi is sick, mentally gone, but we never talk about him in those terms. We like to pretend he’s just old.
When Sra. López got there this morning, she found Papi sitting in the wooden chair with the phone still in his hand, buzzing because it was off the hook. She saw Mamá at his feet.
“The oven was on, too,” Jano says. “There could have been a fire on top of everything else.” He shakes his head.
Sra. López pried the phone from Papi’s hands and called Jano. That was earlier today.
“Papi’s going to stay with me now,” Jano says. “I don’t think he can be alone.”
“He can stay with me,” I say.
Jano shakes his head. “Uh-uh.”
“Why not?”
“He’ll like it at our house better.”
“My place is fine.”
“What?” Jano asks. “You have a newfound interest in him?”
“Do you?”
We’re at an ice-cream shop near my work. The cold air has turned Jano’s lips slightly purple. Besides an employee in a pink apron, we’re the only people here. The bright lights bounce off the white counters and smack me in the face. I’m quiet for a minute. Then I start on a reel of questions. How does he know it was a heart attack? What are we going to do now? What’s happening to the house? Is his wife, Zenia, O.K. with Papi being there? What else did Papi say? Why did Sra. López call him instead of me?
He answers every one. He’s unusually patient with me. He’s waiting to see if I’ll break, I know, if this will be the thing that puts me over the edge, brave-faced little Mireya.
The last time I saw her, my mother was sitting with me on her patio. She was in the metal rocking chair she’d had since before I was born, olive-green seat cushions and floral ironwork along the arms. She had her legs stretched out in front of her, knee-high nylons rolled down around her crossed ankles like life preservers, terry house slippers on her feet. She looked relaxed as she lectured me on her favorite subject—politics. She was telling me how fortunate it was that she had named me Mireya, because the President of [REDACTED] was Mireya Moscoso. She must have said about ten times, “That could have been you,” as if the only prerequisite for becoming the President was having the right name.
She hated that politics held no interest for me. The one thing my mother liked about Armando was his appetite for the political. Just for that, of all the people in my family, she was his only fan.
That day, there was an election parade in the neighborhood. Martín Torrijos was riding all over our section of town, shouting from the windows of his van and waving a 50616e616d61nian flag in a bid to become the next President. It was the reason we were outside on the patio. My mother was waiting for him. We’d been talking for almost an hour when his big white van, followed by pickup trucks with speakers on the flatbeds blasting music, rumbled up our street. My mother stood and smoothed out the front of her robe. She was old enough that her spine had begun to bow.
Torrijos stopped his van in front of our patio. He asked my mother how she and her sister, meaning me, were doing.
My mother shouted, “What will you do about the hospitals?”
Torrijos smiled and waved.
“And what about the canal?” she yelled into the sunlight.
Torrijos tossed a T-shirt out the window to her. “For you!” he shouted.
My mother let it land at her feet. “Pendejo!” she shouted, and the van continued up the street.
It wasn’t everyone who would call a politician an idiot to his face. I smiled until I thought my cheeks would burst. I’d always felt there was something special between my mother and me. Like she was somehow more mine than Jano’s. But maybe all children feel that—a sovereignty of ownership over the parent they love best.
When I get home that night, Armando sprints out to see me.
“Pobrecita,” he says. He’s making a face like I’m a puppy with a broken leg. “I have a poem for you.”
“Another one?”
“When was the last one?” he asks, leaning over the kitchen table, reaching for a book. He finds the page he wants and says, “It’s by César Vallejo. He’s one of the great writers. He wrote for the people.”

I sit down as he reads it to me. I don’t understand poetry the way he does. Things either sound good to me or they don’t. That’s it. The poem he reads tonight is short. It’s about the poet’s brother, who died. My favorite line is “And now a shadow falls on the soul.” I feel the tears burn behind my eyes.
“It’s nice,” I say when he’s done. Then I quickly scoot my chair back and head for the shower. Under the spray, the meat juices wash from my fingernails, from my pores. I tilt my head back and let the water stream down my face until I can’t tell anymore where the water ends and my tears begin.
Armando comes in after me. He knows this is my place to cry. He peels off his clothes and steps into the stall and tries to hold me. His dark, moppish hair sticks to the sides of his face. His skin slips over mine. He pushes me out of the water and examines my eyes. “Are the tears gone now?”
I shrug.
“Tell me, Mireya,” he pleads. It’s the split second of something in his voice that, despite everything else, makes me love him.
“I think they’re just starting,” I say.
He bends down and licks one cheek, then the other, gently**,** with the tip of his tongue. “I’ll get them,” he says, and he does.
My father cleaned government buildings at night. He came home in the early morning hours, high on ammonia and bleach, and made my mother prepare dinner for him in the dark. When he worked overtime, she cooked dinner as the sun rose. Many nights, the smell of spicy chicken or ropa vieja woke me and I knew that my father had just arrived. During the day, he should have been sleeping, but more often he was out in bars or with other women or smoking on our front step, ashes fluttering in the air like confetti. My mother was never happy with him. I mean, she must have been at one time, but I’d never witnessed it. I’d hear her, at night, through the thin walls, sobbing in her room.
She knew about everything my father did—I often heard them arguing about his carryings-on—but, for all her strength, she was never able to stop him and never able to walk away. There was one time when I thought she came close. My father had taken a job cleaning houses during the day and at some point he started returning home with hair dryers, mixing bowls, toaster ovens, picture frames. Of course, we knew where these things were coming from. No one said anything, though, until a police officer showed up at our house one afternoon asking questions. It was easy enough to get rid of him—my father offered him a speaker system—but I’d never seen my mother so angry. For a whole week, she spoke to him only once, when she told him, “You shamed me.”
The only time I even saw a moment of affection between them was much later, after Jano had married and I had moved out on my own. My father had retired, and they were living off his pension and the odd lottery payout. My mother had asked me to get some melons at the stand near my house and bring them over. She was very particular about which melons she deemed acceptable. When I got there, the front door was wide open and inside I saw them, sitting on our old peach-colored couch, my father at one end and my mother stretched out at the other, her feet propped on his lap. He was tickling the soles of her feet with his fingertips and she was flinching, but laughing. Then he reached over and cupped her hair behind her ear. She followed the movement of his hand with her head, like a horse. That was all. But there was real tenderness in it.
Armando is Argentinean, a different breed. We met when I was on my way out of work one afternoon, heading for the bus. He must have been standing there for hours, surveying every so-and-so who walked by. I’m not beautiful. I know that. I’m just this girl with my mother’s squash-shaped body, and dense black hair and a mole on my right cheek. But I always thought it meant something that he seized on me. Came right up to me and said, “You look like you could use a decent meal. Can I take you out?” He had on brown slacks and a white linen shirt. I brushed him off at first.
“What’s your name?” he asked.
“Mireya.”
He stopped in his tracks, playing. “That’s perfect,” he said. “The reservation is under Mireya.”
It was such a line. But I liked the idea of going someplace where we would need a reservation, so I said yes.
We ended up at one of the best steak houses in [REDACTED] City, this spot with gold doors that have an image of a bull carved into them. It was the first and last time we ever went out to a dinner like that. He paid for the whole thing**,** and I ate as much as I could get in me. At the end of the meal, he asked if he could sleep on my floor for a few nights. Told me that he’d just arrived in [REDACTED] and didn’t know anyone and didn’t want to go back to [REDACTED] because of some issue with his parents. I found out later it was money—his wealthy parents had finally told him he needed to find a job or get out. The idea of a job was distasteful to a person like Armando**,** so he got out. That night, though, he said he would pay me for a place on the floor, which he never did. And he promised to keep his hands to himself, which he didn’t. But he seemed harmless enough. So there, in the steak house, my belly warm and full, I said yes.
Carina, at work, says I only fell for him out of habit. The habit of seeing him every day. She says, “Imagine someone put a plate with a nice big pork chop on it in front of you. But you felt like a hamburger, so you said no thanks. And then the next day they brought you a plate with another big pork chop. And the next day and the next day. Eventually, you would start wanting it, even though in the beginning you had no interest. Right?”
“Armando’s not a pork chop,” I say.
She shrugs. “At least a pork chop would feed you.”
Two days pass and I still can’t get myself together. It’s like a small animal pounces on me every day, clawing at me, tearing me to shreds. I go outside on my break and sit on the concrete step behind Casa de la Carne by myself. The ground is slick with grease and mangy dogs sniff around my feet, but I’m too ruined to care. When my time is over, I mop up my face and reassemble my hair into a ponytail.

I can’t stop thinking about the fact that my mother’s gone, though. It’s bad. I cut my finger twice on the slicer before the day’s even rolled around to lunchtime. When I tell them I don’t care and that I don’t want to wear the steel-mesh gloves while I cut, they send me home.
Armando’s on his back on the couch, his socked feet up on the arm, reading. The whole place smells like the sweat from his socks.
“What are you doing here?” he asks, startled, when I come in.
“They sent me home.”
“You were fired?” He looks terrified.
For a second, I have this impulse to answer yes, to tell him he’s the one who has to find a job now, figure out a way to support us both, just to see what he would do.
I shrug. “They just sent me home.”
He purses his lips and looks away, at nothing, like he’s weighing what this might mean.
“What? You have someone coming over?” I ask.
“No.”
He cheated on me once, when we first started, with this girl who had air-conditioning at her place. He told me about it because he would sleep there—no mosquitoes, no night sweats. He claimed it had nothing to do with her, but there were a few nights during a blackout when he went over there just the same. So. He might have left me for her at some point, I don’t know, but she moved to [REDACTED], anyway.
“I’m trying to finish this book by tomorrow,” he says, holding up what’s in his hand. “You won’t bother me, right?”
“I’m going to make lunch.” I raise my hand to show him the bandages, but he’s already back to his book.
“Meatballs and patacones for me?” he asks hopefully. “Oh, and your papi called. I think it was him. He said it was him at first, and then he kept saying he had the wrong number. The man is messed up, Mireya. You guys should put him in a hospital, you know?”
I glare at him as he reads. I unwrap the tape and gauze—pink with my blood—from my fingers, balancing them in my hand, and consider throwing them at him. But I don’t. I just leave them at his feet to see if he’ll even notice.
I call my father back that night. Zenia answers. She’s never liked me. I think when she and Jano started together, years ago, he told her not to trust me. My brother has always suffered from the belief that I came into the world to steal my parents’ attention from him. When I was younger, he claimed that for the entire ride to the hospital while my mother was in labor with me, she had shouted, “I don’t want it!” “You see?” he said. “Even then she knew you were a bad idea.” My mother heard him and swatted him on the arm so hard that a patch of red bloomed on his skin.
“Is my father there?” I ask.
“He’s having a good time here, you know.”
“Please, Zenia. I want to talk to him.”
She sighs. “Momentito.”
“Aló?” he says, when he gets on the phone. “Who is this?”
“It’s Mireya.”
“La Presidenta?”
“No. It’s me. Your daughter.”
It sounds like he’s chewing on something.
“How are you doing?” I ask.
“Fine. There’s a fan in my bedroom,” he says.
“What are you eating?”
“I’m drinking.”
“You’re chewing your drink?”
He’s quiet.
“Are you O.K. over there? Are you happy?”
“I miss you,” he says, unexpectedly. I wonder if he even knows who he’s talking to.
“Me?”
“That fan makes a lot of noise, though.”
“I’ll tell Jano to fix it for you.”
“I used to live in my own house. Is that right?”
“Yes.”
He’s silent again.
“Do you want me to come visit you?” I ask.
My father was drunk almost every day while I was growing up. He was hardly around, a shadow of a father. It’s no secret that Jano and I hardened ourselves to him. But, still, it’s amazing how much I want him to say yes.
“Our dinner is ready,” he says instead.
“O.K., Papi.”
“We’re having arroz con pollo.”
“I’m going to get off now. I’ll see you in a few days.”
“Yes. It would be very nice to see the President.”
“Goodbye, Papi.”
When I show up at Casa de la Carne the next day, Carina pulls me aside and asks what I’m doing there. “I thought you got fired,” she says. I assure her I was just sent home early because of personal problems. She shakes her head at me, her gold hoop earrings swaying against her jaw. “No,” she says, drawing it out as if the word were a rubber band. “I think you should talk to Tino.” But as soon as she says it I understand. I didn’t wear the gloves, which is a safety violation, which is a big deal. I was an idiot to think that they were just giving me some time off to pull myself together. Tino confirms it.
I don’t go home right away, though. I get on the bus to my parents’ house. They lived on a sloping street where the houses press against one another, side by side, like children in a line holding hands. Theirs looks like all the others: a big cement patio out front, bars over the windows, wire trash bins held up on poles by the curb. I open the gate and step onto the patio. For some reason I’m feeling nervous, like I’m trespassing, like someone else has already taken over this house. Even so, I’m doing O.K. until I notice the chair where I last saw my mother. The seat cushion is still flattened from her weight, the imprint of her bottom depressed into the foam. It splits my heart in two. I take a few deep breaths and make my way to the chair. Slowly, I lower myself into the impression she formed. The air is steaming hot, the sun piercing. I sit for as long as I can take it, and then I have to leave.
Memories are thin, watery and fragile, like gas rising off the pavement on the hottest days. But there are times I can see clearly.
I was eight. We had driven to my Tía Cre’s house for a party. The boys abandoned us, locking themselves in a room doing who knows what, but no one asked because they were boys and anything was permissible. My cousin Juanita and I went down to the spiny shores of the bay, rooting around in the small pools between the rocks for snails and crabs. This was my mother’s favorite place. She was forever reminiscing about growing up in a house on the bay, about the days when she and Tía Cre basically lived among the rocks and on the crescent of sand at their base.
My cousin and I were barefoot, and the ocean rolled in far enough at times to lick the rocks until they glistened. I was stepping down from one rock to another when I slipped. My feet shot out in front of me and I fell backward. My spine landed flat on a rock and my head snapped back against a rough crest of stone. I must have blacked out for a few seconds. When I was conscious again, I reached back and felt the blood, sticky in my hair. I had a gash like a long slug, just behind my ear. My cousin ran screaming back to the house. I don’t remember much between then and when my mother arrived.

I saw her bending over me. I saw the sunlight filtering through her black hair, curled at the tips. There was a look of consternation on her face; she looked like she wanted to slap me but couldn’t bring herself to do it. She had a white apron around her waist—she must have been helping Tía Cre in the kitchen—and I remember it fluttering over me as she leaned down and scooped me up in her arms.
The blood stopped soon enough. Tía Cre cleaned and bandaged me. The adults were worried and then not worried. My father looked at me blandly—he was drunk—and declared that I would be fine. Jano came out of the bedroom carrying a joystick, the cord stretching all the way across the floor. He peered at me, and then walked away shrugging. I think he thought I was just creating a show to get attention. To prove him wrong, I bit my lip to keep from crying. I haven’t cried in front of my family since.
In my cousin’s dark bedroom, the windows wide open, the curtains blowing, my mother stayed with me while the party went on. She climbed into bed with me and held me from behind.
“I’m not happy,” she said.
“I didn’t mean to do it,” I told her.
“You aren’t allowed to leave me, you know.”
I could smell the vegetable oil and cooking gas that had crept into the fabric of her clothes and her hair.
“Everyone else can leave, but not you.”
My head stung, pain pulsing around me like a halo. I could hear the muffled sounds of the party through the door—ice clinking in glasses, spontaneous riots of laughter, a faint thread of music.
“I’m sorry,” I said.
She sighed and then pinched a bit of skin on my arm and twisted it. I knew then that she really had wanted to hit me back on the rocks. The pinch was a compromise.
“Be more careful,” she said. “From now on, you do that for me.”
The day before the funeral, I’m cruising around town on the bus. There’s not much else to do. Everyone still thinks I have a job, so I have to leave the house during the day.
The bus is maybe a kilometre out when, through the window, I see Armando. From the back, but I can tell it’s him. He’s walking with his arm around a woman’s shoulder, her arm around his waist. Her wrist drips with jewelry, expensive-looking stuff, the kind you could get only at a place like Mercurio. I get off at the next stop and walk back toward them.
I’m about ten metres away when Armando sees me. He drops his arm from the woman’s shoulder. “You’re not at work,” he says when I’m close enough.
“I don’t work there anymore.”
The woman next to him is wearing big, round sunglasses that are probably designer.
“What do you mean?”
“I just don’t.” I stare unblinkingly at the woman as I say it. I can’t see her eyes, but I can see her eyebrows above the sunglasses.
“Hey,” he says. It’s that soft “hey” he gives me sometimes in the middle of the night when he wants to wake me**,** because, he says, he misses me. Then he takes me by the arm and drags me a few steps away.
“Is that the same girl from before?” I ask. As soon as I say it, though, I realize I don’t want the answer. Either way, it’s bad.
He shakes his head.
“Who is she, then?”
“Mireya, please.”
“How long have you been with her?” I say.
He shakes his head again.
“Tell me how long!”
“A few weeks, O.K.?”
“She’s rich?”
“She gives me what I need.” He looks defiant, suddenly. He’s over his shame, or he’s pretending to be over it.
“I don’t? I go to work so you can eat!”
“Armando,” the woman calls.
That’s when I lay into him. Just sock him one in his chest. He stumbles backward and the next thing I know I’m lunging at him, tearing into his pockets, grabbing hold of what I can. He clutches my wrists, trying to pry my hands away. But I want it—whatever he has, I want it. With both of us pulling, the seam of his pocket rips and he starts yelling at me to stop, but I won’t. He rams the top of his head against my shoulder, trying to create some distance between us. And somehow we end up on the ground, tiny pebbles pressing into my skin, the sidewalk baking underneath us. Faintly, I hear the woman saying “Ay, Dios,” again and again, and I catch glimpses of her towering over us as we fight. Finally, Armando manages to pull free of me and stand. I get up, too, and brush myself off.
The woman says, “Armando, this girl is crazy.”
I’m a firestorm inside—everything exploding and burning—and I’m trying so hard not to talk, because I know if I do I’ll cry.
Armando tells the woman to wait at the corner. You can tell she’s not used to being instructed to do anything, especially by him. But she does it.
It doesn’t help that eventually I would have left him anyway, or that anyone could have seen this coming, or that I always knew we were bound to fall apart.
We stare at each other, squinting in the sun. His face is light—he’s always been too pale for this country—and shiny with sweat. I can’t help thinking that there were moments when he was good to me. I wait for him to say something, but he doesn’t. I feel weightless standing there, like I’m not sure if the soles of my shoes are connected to the sidewalk anymore.
“My mother was the only one in my family who liked you,” I finally say. It’s a petty impulse—wanting to hurt him because he hurt me—but I don’t care.
He looks like I just slapped him. “Your mother?”
I grab my bag from the ground and start walking away.
I hear his shoes shuffle behind me for a second and then stop.
“What about you?” he yells. “Didn’t you like me?”
It’s such a heartbreaker. Because here’s the answer: “Yes, I did. Who knows why, but I did.” But right then I can’t do it. I just walk away.
The funeral is what it is. I kiss a hundred cheeks and listen to a hundred stories about what a wonderful person my mother was. Everyone’s asking where Armando is, but I say again and again that I don’t want to get into it. Jano ran an obituary in the newspaper. He looks terrible, his nose red, his eyes swollen like little ravioli. Zenia, in a long-sleeved white dress, never leaves his side, her arm hooked through his. My father is seated in the front pew and I wave to him because I’m not sure what he would think if I hugged him.
At one point, Jano comes over and asks if I’m O.K.
“I’m fine,” I tell him.
“Are you sure?”
“I’m sure.” But I’m not.

When the time comes, I go up to say goodbye to her. I remember, when my grandmother died, walking up the church aisle, gripping my mother’s hand. I was five. In my memory, the other people in the church are blurry, only watercolors. When my mother and I got to the casket, I could see my grandmother’s face—powdery and calm. I wanted so badly to touch her; I stood there forever thinking about doing it, but I didn’t know if I was allowed to. I didn’t want to do it and make a scene, one that Jano would chide me for later. That afternoon, I asked my mother if I could have done it. She told me of course. For all these years, I’ve hated the fact that I didn’t.
Now there’s no casket, just a gold urn on a small table. What can I do? Reach my hand in? A photograph of my mother sits on an easel next to the urn. It’s black-and-white, all soft edges and haze. She is too young for me to recognize her. I wonder, if I hadn’t been her daughter, if I had just met this woman in the photograph at any time on the street, would I have liked her? But it’s a stupid thing to wonder, because of course I would have. I would have loved her anytime.
When I’m done, I take a seat beside Papi. He smiles. His long, thin fingers are folded in his lap, and he looks as light and unbothered as a cloud.
“How are you?” I ask. I feel none of the anger I usually do around him.
“I tried to save her,” he whispers, leaning sideways.
“I know, Papi,” I say.
“Human beings can’t save each other from anything, though.”
“I’m sorry,” I tell him, because I don’t know what else there is to offer.
He nods. “Nothing to be sorry about.”
“O.K.,” I say, and he pats my knee.
Afterward, I take the urn with me. Jano has already said, without any discussion, that he will keep it at his house, but in my mind it’s inconceivable that it could belong to anyone but me.
Holding the urn in my lap, I take a taxi straight to the bay, passing billboards and wire fences, fields of overgrown grass freckled with tiny flowers and small fires, ramshackle houses and brittle palm trees.
When we get to the bay, I pay the driver. He has a stern face and he simply nods before shooting off into the gathering darkness. I carry the urn over to the rocks and sit down, balancing it beside me. I take off the lid and reach my hand in, letting my fingertips graze the dust. Then I cover it again. I sit there for hours, my bottom growing damp from the glaze of water clinging to the rocks, and look out for anything I can see. 

