CLUB DES AMIS
By Tony D’Souza

Wu’s story was simple: he’d come to West Africa from 4368696e61 in search of a better life. Throughout the nineteen-nineties, a number of Chinese herbalists had established themselves in the major and minor cities of Ivory Coast; Wu’s cousin was one of these, and he’d urged Wu to join him. Wu chose Séguéla, a dusty Muslim town in the north of the country, and spent his first few months there taking lessons in the rudiments of West African French and shelling out piles of his cousin’s CFA francs to entertain the city’s functionaries in the bars. Then he hung his shingle in the marketplace, and the patients began to come. Mostly they were soldiers and teachers who had contracted venereal diseases from the local prostitutes. They knew that word would get out if they went to the town’s hospital, so instead they went to Wu and he cured them with acupuncture and erythromycin. Even the city’s two Ivorian doctors came in now and again with embarrassing rashes. On weekends, Wu rode his mobylette into the surrounding villages to treat the chiefs and their sons for these same maladies, at prorated village prices. His practice thrived, and soon enough he was able to send for his wife and son in 4368696e61.
Before I met Wu, I had already spotted his wife; I always enjoyed the sight of her, a petite Chinese woman in a tight pink wrap mincing about the crowded Séguéla market on clogs that elevated her above the fish heads and the mud, a pink parasol open over her head like a flower. Wherever she went, she was followed by a long train of market children singing “Chinese woman! Chinese woman!” and by mangy homeless dogs, who were attracted, perhaps, by her strange scent. I was glad to see her not only because her presence in that obscure place gave me a pleasant shock but because she was even more alien there than I was. Whenever we crossed paths, the children who’d been following me shouting “White man! White man!” would abandon me to join her entourage. I understood that her life in Africa must have been hell.
“Peiching hated it here,” Wu told me one night. We were at his house drinking warm beer, playing poker for the shrimp tails left over from our dinner. By that time, Wu was alone, his house big and empty around him. “Everywhere she went, the children followed. In the market, the women always wanted to touch her skin. I hired a tutor to teach her French, but she never picked it up. Not one word. Her heart was in 4368696e61. When Wen died, she was ruined. A few months later, she went home.”
It was a rainy night, and, for a change, Séguéla was quiet. Wu showed me pictures of his wedding. When he and Peiching had got married, they were both poor students, and the best honeymoon Wu had been able to afford was a trip to 4368696e61, where they stayed with his relatives. One picture showed them in a garden outside the Imperial Palace. The colors of the flowers had faded, like the rest of the picture, to sepia. Wu looked thin and young, with a cigarette between his fingers, and his wife looked shy. They were both wearing jeans, and neither was smiling, but something in their rigid postures suggested the significance of the moment.
Everyone in 4368696e61 had advised Wu against bringing his son to Africa. Africa was full of danger and disease; there were too many risks for a family’s only child. But Wen and his father were close, and the boy decided to postpone university to be with his dad. Wu showed me a picture of his son, too. Wen had been a tall boy, pale and serious-looking, his face neat and narrow like his mother’s, handsome. He was standing in front of a jade lion in a snowy square somewhere in Xian. He wore a heavy wool coat, military issue, and snowflakes rested on his shoulders like petals. As Wu showed me the picture under the naked bulb of his room, he said, in a soft voice, “I took him here to Xian for his graduation. To sightsee. To celebrate. One child in 4368696e61. One son. Can you imagine? In a world of rain, one single drop belongs to you.”
Africa was difficult for Peiching, but Wen took to it as though he’d been waiting his whole life for the release. He was just eighteen when he came, and for whatever reason the Africans took him in as though they’d been waiting for him as well. He played basketball with the soldiers’ sons every evening at the stadium court. He borrowed his father’s mobylette and disappeared into the bush for days with friends. He ate fried plantain chips sold by the street venders, put away his leather shoes and wore foam flip-flops that he bought in the market. He went swimming in the distant Marahoué River, and worked in the rice fields with people he barely knew. In three months, he was speaking Worodougou as if he’d been born to it.
Every warning his father gave him—about intestinal parasites, about bilharzia and melanoma, about aidsand the local girls—he laughed off. Six months after he’d stepped off the bus in Séguéla on a dusty Sunday with his mother nervous beside him, Wen had a local girlfriend, and two months after that he told his father that the girl was pregnant. For the only time in his life, Wu struck his son. Who knows why? Maybe it was the stress of worrying about the boy, or the mounting difficulties of his own psychic isolation in a foreign land; maybe it was his frustration with the corrupt Ivorian government, which was forever presenting new documents he had to buy, new taxes he had to pay. Maybe it was all of these. Whatever the reason, Wu slapped his son again and again. They were out on the porch, which opened onto the market. It was the first hard rain of the season, and people stood under the tin roofing of every stall, calling to their friends and laughing as they watched this exchange between the Chinese men.
Wu said, “What sort of life will a half-black have in 4368696e61?”
Wen shouted, “I live here now! I’m never going back to 4368696e61!”
Wu tried to grab his son’s arm, but Wen shook free and ran off.
For three months, there was no word from him. Then, halfway through the fourth, a messenger came from the girl’s village, thirty miles to the east, beyond Mankono, where the couple had fled. The messenger was a poor man in village rags. He wasn’t able to bring his eyes up to meet Wu’s as he broke the news he’d carried with him: Wen was dead.
I looked at the photo of the tall and serious boy with snowflakes on his shoulders, and asked, “What in the world happened to him?”
“It’s Africa. Who knows what happened? Here we sleep under nets. There he was living in a hut. He wasn’t on any medication. It could have been malaria. It could have been cholera, typhoid, plague, fever. They could have poisoned him. He was dead, that was all we knew. It took me three days to tell my wife. Still, I know that she knew. She wouldn’t talk to me, and when I finally told her she slapped me. She blamed me for everything. A few weeks more and she went home. She said that she had made a mistake in choosing me for a husband. I can never go home now, do you understand? One child in 4368696e61. The only possession of any value. They told me not to bring him here. Even if I did go back, they would not forgive me.”

My friendship with Wu developed cautiously. I was a relief worker for Potable Water International, living in the village of Téguéla, twelve miles away in the bush. The odd weekends that I went into Séguéla for a break from my duties, I’d invariably run into Wu at Club des Amis, a bar that sat next to the remnants of a Catholic church that had been burned in the last uprising. Wen had died right around the time that I arrived in Ivory Coast, but I didn’t know that then. I knew Wu only as someone to drink with: the strange Chinese doctor who’d somehow ended up in this backwater, a chain-smoker who never let me pay for drinks. None of the other relief workers in the region befriended him, because his French was incredibly difficult to understand, and because they came into Séguéla from their villages looking to get drunk in peace. That was what I wanted, too, but Wu sought me out. And once I got used to his French I began to look forward to seeing him. He was educated and knew the world. We’d have long, drunken debates about politics and the future of relations between our countries. Often, we’d bring a few beers back to his three-room place on the edge of the market and watch an old Jackie Chan movie on his portable DVD player. I’d wake the next day on a wicker mat, a thin sheet draped over me.
In the mornings, I was always embarrassed to have got so drunk, but Wu set me at ease. I’d sit on a crate in his sparse kitchen and watch him standing at the kerosene burner in his underwear, cooking noodles and shrimp, smoking a cigarette and tapping his ashes to the floor. We ate out of steel bowls balanced on our knees, clicking our chopsticks and slurping loudly, and he would tell me which local high-school teacher had recently contracted gonorrhea. He told me that one day I would have to visit his sister in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and say hello to her for him. She’d made it to [REDACTED] in a cargo container, and now owned her own takeaway shop. He promised that she’d treat me like a king.
“Let’s have a drink together at the club, petit,” he’d say, lifting his eyebrows, but it would still be early morning, and I’d beg off. I was in Africa to assist my village; I had to get back to it. I’d find a ride out to the bush on a logging truck, and for the next six weeks or so I wouldn’t think of Wu at all.
I liked Wu because he was kind to me, and because we shared our isolation. Our friendship grew, and I invited him to celebrate my twenty-sixth birthday with me at Club des Amis. Late that night, back at his house, Wu told me what had happened after Wen’s death.
Before his wife left, Wu had taken her out to Mankono on his mobylette. Peiching sat behind him, sidesaddle, which was her way. The road was cracked and broken, washed out in places from the rain, and often they had to get off and he’d push the motorbike while she walked. They rode through forest, then through long and lush savanna, the baobab trees standing like sentinels. His wife had never been outside Séguéla; she was shocked by how primitive the villages were. People waved at them, but she pinched Wu to tell him not to stop. Again and again, she said, “How could our son have lived like this?”
The girl’s village was a nothing place in the middle of nowhere: a collection of huts and the meagre people who lived in them. The chief—accompanied by what seemed like the entire population of the village—came out to meet them. For whatever reason, Wu was no longer angry at this point, and his wife, under her parasol, was quiet. The chief presented the girl to them, and she was clearly pregnant. What had his son seen in this small African girl? Wu wondered. All he knew of her was that she’d sold dried chilies in the market. There were dozens of girls like that. “Where did my son sleep?” his wife wanted to know. Wu translated her question to the chief, then to the girl and her family, and the chief led them through the identical thatched huts of the village, to one at the far end. Wu and his wife peered into the gloom of the simple structure. On the dirt floor was a frayed raffia mat, nothing more. “This is where my husband slept,” the girl told them. She showed them a ceramic cistern of water, a small calabash dipping cup. “This is the water I brought him to drink. This is the stool where he sat in the evening.” The girl seemed frightened. Wu felt sure that if it weren’t for the chief she would have run off into the bush.
Apparently, Wen’s few possessions had already been claimed by the living. These were brought forth from the crowd and set at Wu’s feet. There was a well-worn machete and a tattered green boubou. The chief barked at a young man standing near him, and the young man removed his flip-flops. The chief set them before Wu and said, “These were his shoes.”
A gnarled witch doctor approached them with his staff, looked down at his feet, and told Wu in a quiet voice, “The boy was sick for three days. The ancestors called for him. He was strong, strong in his heart. But the ancestors called to him with hunger. He died in my hut as I prayed over him. He was strong until the end.” The witch doctor pointed to another hut, the hut where Wen had died. It looked the same as the rest.
The chief led them out into the tall grass of the savanna. They followed a path to a clearing under a stand of yellow and red blooming acacia. There were old graves here, mounds of stony soil where the earth had been pried open and turned, and behind these was another mound, the soil fresh and red, soft-looking, not so old. The chief said, “This is where he lies,” and he scattered rice onto the ground for luck.
It was a heap of earth, pebbles all through it like rough gems, no marker of any sort, already settling down to anonymity. “Why didn’t you bring him into the town when he was sick?” Wu asked the chief.
The girl spoke. She said, “My husband did not want to go into the town.”
“Why didn’t you bring us his body?”
The chief said, “He prayed with us. He died as a Muslim. We buried him here in the Muslim way.”
Wu gave the girl money and told her to come to him in Séguéla. He promised to take care of her, to help her with her every need. Wu’s wife took the green boubou and the flip-flops. The girl’s mother hurried forward with a blue pagne and wrapped these things carefully in it. Wu drove them back to Séguéla, his wife holding the blue package close to her chest. He knew that his life with Peiching was over. As they left the village, Wu tried to see it, and the land, through his son’s eyes. White clouds scudded through the vast sky, and for the first time—and only briefly—Wu allowed himself to admit that Africa was beautiful.

Wu’s story was known in all the villages, including mine. No one had ever told it to me because I hadn’t known to ask. One night, I said to my neighbors as we sat around the evening fire, “Everyone knows the story of the Chinese doctor, don’t they?”
One of the young men nodded and said, “Oh, yes. It has been happening all the time you have been here.” He waved his hand before his face in the night as though he were trying to ward away trouble. He said, “A terrible story. Who knows what genies have their hands in it? Now the doctor wants the small boy. The girl does not want to give up her son. Who can win? Trouble like this is real trouble. Trouble like this must be given a wide berth.” Everyone around the fire mumbled assent.
It was some time before the girl took Wu up on his offer, but after the child was born she came to live with her aunt in Séguéla, and brought the infant to Wu every day. Wu still had money then, and he lavished it on his grandson. He brought toys up from Abidjan—colorful balls, a plastic dump truck—and he bought Dutch wax pagnes and closed-toe shoes for the girl. She called the boy Moussa, a Muslim name, but Wu called him Didi. I was never sure exactly what this meant, but I had a sense that it meant “little.”
Wu stopped drinking about this time, and for months I didn’t see him. Still, I kept abreast of his story by asking around. Once, I stopped by his house to see how he was. I saw the toys in the entryway, and understood that Wu was happy, that his grandson was in his life now, that Wu’s life had diverged from mine in a good way.
The rainy season became the dry, and the villagers brought out harvest masks to dance benedictions to the ancestors. We all had a few weeks of rest, and then Ramadan was upon us. I rose at the imam’s call to eat okra soup with my neighbors by morning firelight in the darkness, and gave up food and drink during the day, though I didn’t pray. There was a prolonged lull in the violence that marked those years, and everyone began to wonder if it would last. Then, just when it seemed as if the nation had righted itself, fighting broke out everywhere.
Once the government had regained control of the city, I went to Séguéla to see what had happened. The scene was one I’d witnessed nearly half a dozen times already: the homes of soldiers and Christians burned, the prefect’s offices looted and in shambles. Club des Amis was still standing, and the proprietor and his sisters greeted me warmly. The owner’s cousin was a subcommander of the region’s military detachment, and the heavy machine gun he had set up to protect the bar was still on its sandbags—a testament to how dangerous things had been. Wu was drinking in the corner. I was excited to see him, but he didn’t seem like himself at all. As I approached, I saw that his ashtray was full of cigarette butts, that he’d set a long row of the beer bottles he’d emptied on the ground beside him. His face was dark with stubble. He coughed and looked sick.
“Did you ride out the trouble here, Wu?” I asked him.
He nodded, waved his hand. He said, “They looted my house. Everything is gone.”
“What about Didi?”
“My grandson? The girl took him away weeks ago. She only wanted money. She told me I had to pay fifty thousand CFA every time I wanted to see him. She refused to leave him with me, because she was afraid I would take him to 4368696e61. I told the police what she was doing. She heard of this and ran away. It’s her family who looted my house. I have not otherwise had trouble here.”
We drank a few tall beers together, but the drinking didn’t help his mood. He was maudlin, smoking. The evening settled over us and turned to night, and Wu, his head lolling, wanted to drive himself home. Instead, I put him on the back of his mobylette and, one eye closed for precision, drove us there myself. All the windows of his house had been broken, and glass shards littered every room. They’d taken his television, his bed, his stove. On the floor in the debris were muddied aerograms covered in Chinese characters, and bent pictures of his son.
We sat on crates in his bedroom, lit cigarettes. Wu had composed himself during the ride over. “Jack,” he said, waving his hand at the mess, “this is the life I’ve made for myself, isn’t it? I came here because of greed, and this is what I’ve earned.” What was there to say? Wu picked up one of the pictures, smoothed it flat on his thigh, and studied it a long time. He said, “You call me Wu. Everyone here calls me Wu. That is not my name. My name is Chang. Chang Gochiang.”
“Chang Gochiang. What is Wu?”
“A sound. Someone else’s name. Chang Gochiang is too difficult for them to say. My cousin told me to tell them ‘Wu.’ It is the same name as he uses. Many Chinese here use it. It is easy for them to say. But my name is Chang Gochiang.”
I helped him sweep up and bought a cheap plastic mat from a night vender for him to sleep on. I worried that he would kill himself, but what could I do? When I left, he was sleeping on the mat in his underwear, the pictures of his life in a stack beside his head like a pillow.
Wu lingered on in Séguéla after that uprising; he became something of a fool. To the locals, he was a strange man from 4368696e61 with a troubled past: a dead son, a lost wife, a half-breed grandchild somewhere in the distant villages. To the functionaries in the bars, he was a drunk, a wretch, a foreigner who’d come where he shouldn’t have for profit, who had lost everything because of greed. Besides, he knew too many of their dirty secrets.
Wu bought another bed, and another television set to watch the Ivorian news. He would greet me perfunctorily at his door, as though our friendship belonged to a time he didn’t want to remember; he wouldn’t invite me in. When I saw him at the bar, he was usually buying beers for a table full of rowdy soldiers, or sitting with the magistrates and judges in their fine suits, pushing tumblers of Johnnie Walker their way. His French deteriorated. With drunken soldiers egging him on, he would arm-wrestle shoeshine boys, dirty fous, mugging to make everyone laugh when he lost. Now and again, witnessing his strange humiliation, I’d catch his eye from across the bar. Then his face would compose itself briefly, as though he wanted to say, “You know this is not who I am.”
In my village, people were of two minds. Some would argue, “It’s terrible to lose a son. But the girl does not want to lose hers, either. Shouldn’t a child belong to its mother? The 4368696e61man wants the boy to ease his loss. But doesn’t the girl have a right to her son?”

Others would say, “But why must that girl make so much trouble? The child is not a normal child here—his life will be one of ridicule. The 4368696e61man is wealthy, the girl will have other children. Better to let this troubled one go, keep the new ones, which will be truly black.”

It wasn’t a secret that Wu was paying bribes right and left at this time. It was rumored that he’d given five hundred thousand CFA to the prefect and an equal sum to the district judge, and that each and every night he had drinks and cigarettes carried out to the soldiers who manned the checkpoints in and out of the city. A half-breed child was a difficult thing to hide. Soldiers in plain clothes went to the girl’s village, searched it, then searched all the villages of her relatives. Her father and brothers were brought to the Séguéla jail one by one, and fined enormous sums on the premise that their identity papers weren’t in order. No one’s identity papers were in order in the Muslim north. The girl’s relatives were tortured and released. If they knew where she had gone, they didn’t let on.
Rumors circulated. Some had her living with a Senufo cousin outside Korhogo. Others put her in a Bozo fishing village north of Béoumi. The more romantic versions claimed that she’d drowned herself and the child in the Marahoué, or that a French dignitary had fallen in love with her in Abidjan, and whisked her and Didi away to [REDACTED].
The soldiers promised Wu that they were closing in. These reports made it even into the villages. Someone had seen a little boy with tea-colored skin and Chinese eyes wandering lost in a market in Boundiali, crying for his mother. Another had seen the girl, with the child tied to her back, trying to cross the Burkina border at Ferkéssédougou. Violence flared up here and there: Dioula labor strikes in Abidjan, Mossi lockouts on the great palm-oil plantations. The religious divisions rising in the country were like moisture gathering in the air. Soon, the dry season would end in great thunderstorms, too.
Sometimes I would try to imagine the girl. Who was she? All I knew was that she had sold chilies in the Séguéla market, that she’d grown up in a village as obscure and primitive as the one I lived in. Somehow she’d made it into town, where the street lights and the few rusted taxis must have impressed her, and where she’d fallen for Wu’s son.
There were examples of such flirtations every day in the market: bored girls teasing unemployed boys about their rags or their new muscles; boys teasing girls about their servitude, their illiteracy, their frayed pagnes. The boys said the girls were as skinny as plucked chickens; the girls told the boys they had donkeys’ teeth. All day it went on. And at night, after meals were eaten and dishes washed, the young people would stroll in tight groups under the orange street lights, and once in a while some bold girl or boy would glance around for aunts or cousins, then cross the street, touch an arm, grasp a hand, pass some moments in a shadow beside the loved one, too shy at first to say anything at all.
There would have been stars in the sky the night they met. Perhaps she had said to him, “Tell me about your country.” Or perhaps he’d said to her, “Do you know about my country?” As an unmarried girl, she would have always been under the eye of her aunt and her aunt’s household. For his part, with his mother always home, Wen couldn’t possibly have brought her there. Maybe there was a grassy place in the bush where they could sit and look at the town’s lights. Maybe Wen had a friend who loaned them a room. Somehow, somewhere, they had got to know each other and had fallen in love. The girl called Wen “husband,” and he liked that. Did she imagine that they would live together in her village forever? Or had she hoped to travel with him to 4368696e61 one day? Had either of them stopped to consider the complications their child would face? Or had everything seemed golden and bright in the throes of their love and their youth?
What I finally wondered was this: Had her heart been broken? Did she feel the loss of Wen as much as Wu did?
Wu came to my village one Friday afternoon when everyone of age was praying at the mosque. I was sitting outside my hut eating the season’s last guavas, and some small children led him to me, running in front of his mobylette. The children were naked, potbellied, crusts dried under their noses; they stood quietly a short distance away from us, as though stunned by malnutrition and fatigue. Wu parked his bike, looked at me in my field rags, peered inside the gloom of my hut, grunted. “It’s a wonder that you are not dead, too,” he said.
Wu looked neat. He was clean-shaven, and his hair had been cut. The wrecked and humiliated man I’d seen grovelling in the bars the past few months had somehow been returned to the doctor I had once known. “I need a favor, Jack,” he said. “I’ve never asked you for anything. Now I need your help. They have the girl in the Mankono jail. My money’s gone. I need to borrow a hundred thousand CFA, a document fee. But I also need a witness. Someone must sign that I am Didi’s legal guardian. No one in Séguéla will do this for me. If you won’t do it, then they will release her and I will never have my grandson.”
Of course, I did not want to have to make this decision. With all the adults at the mosque, there was no one to lend me support, or to make an excuse for why I couldn’t go with him. There was simply a thin middle-aged man from 4368696e61 who had once been my friend, and some naked children staring at us numbly, not even blinking.
For a long moment, I didn’t say anything. Wu looked away, and the children stared at me like a council of judges. The sky was blue, the day yellow. I set down the guava, went into my hut, took off my field clothes, and pulled on my green boubou. I slipped my identity papers into my pocket. When I went out, Wu kick-started his mobylette, and I got on behind him. “Tell the chief I’ve gone to Mankono. I will be back tomorrow, inshallah.”
The children nodded grimly. The oldest girl said in her delicate voice, “Allah ee kissee, Tonton”—“God bless your route, Uncle.”
Wu waited outside the bank in Séguéla with the motor running, and when I came out I gave him the money. Then he drove us through the streets to the courthouse, and the soldier at the gate told us the judge was in the bar. We found him there, in a purple suit, drinking whiskey at a table of soldiers. The music was loud and they were all laughing. They laughed anew at me in my boubou: a white man dressed as a Muslim. After a minute, the judge wiped his mouth with a cloth napkin, grew serious, and said, “Bon. Do you have the money, Wu?”

Wu handed him the stack. The judge flipped through it quickly, tossed two soiled bills on the table, and folded the rest of it into his inner breast pocket. He put on his mirrored sunglasses and said something to the soldiers in Baoulé, and then we went out to where his driver waited in a black Mercedes.
The ride to Mankono from Séguéla was long and silent. Even with the air-conditioning on, it was hot in the car, and I could smell the judge’s sweet cologne: lilac. The road was red and dusty, the savanna wide and dry on either side of it, a flat yellow plain. There were no other vehicles in sight, and, in the few villages we passed, people stood up from their labors to peer at us.
“You’ll witness for him?” the judge said to me as we sat in the car on the Marahoué ferry, the old bargeman poling us across the dirty river on an oil-drum raft.
“I will,” I told him.
“Never in my life could I have imagined this, both a white man and a 4368696e61man in my car at the same time. It was very good that you brought your son to Africa, Wu. So many unexpected things this decision has brought all of us.”
In Mankono, a soldier opened the gates of the jail and we drove through in a cloud of dust. Chickens scratched in the dry yard, and the office was bare and hot, a metal desk beneath a metal fan. The judge dictated to the uniformed gendarme at the typewriter, who worked carefully and deliberately. On the wall above him was a picture of the current general-president, looking just as pleased in his suit and sash as he did on the nation’s postage stamps. Beyond the door was a row of cells. Now and again, a yell sounded.
A photographer came from the town on a bicycle and took Wu’s picture against a bare wall. Wu didn’t smile. The judge stamped and signed the documents, called Wu to sign, and then me. The documents were ornate, colorful with the blue ink of the round stamp. I didn’t bother reading what they said. The photographer, a Dioula in threadbare slacks, asked the judge’s permission to leave, but the judge told him to take another picture. He had me stand on one side of him, and Wu on the other. “A white, a yellow, and a black,” the judge said, and then the picture was taken.
“Now may I go, patron?” the photographer asked, inching toward the door. Wu gave him some coins from his pocket and said, “One of me and my friend.” He held my hand as the photographer took our picture. Again, we didn’t smile.
The gendarme barked for the soldier outside to come in, and handed him a thick ring of keys. The soldier went through to the cells, and I heard a metal door creak open. Then the soldier returned, pushing a small Worodougou girl by the shoulder. Her feet were bare, her wraps dirty. She didn’t look at any of us. Something in her downcast eyes said that she’d had enough. In her arms she held a small boy who blinked at the daylight streaming in from the window. His skin was the color of tea, his eyes were Chinese, his hair was straight and black. He was a handsome boy, delicate and frightened, wearing khaki shorts and a collared shirt, as though dressed for an occasion.
“No problems, now, muso,” the judge said, pointing his thick finger at her, “and you’ll be free to go. Understand?” She nodded. The gendarme lifted the child from her by the arm, and the boy clung to her wrap, began to cry. He set the child on the desk, and pushed the girl out into the yard with the stock of his rifle. Through the window, I could see him push her all the way out through the gates and onto the street.
Wu called to his grandson in a tender voice, and held out his arms as if he were coaxing a reluctant pet. I thought for an instant that Didi would cry, but he didn’t. Perhaps he’d had enough as well. The gendarme passed Didi to Wu, and Wu held the child close to him, petted his hair, kissed the top of his head. He spoke softly to the boy in Chinese, and Didi set his arms around his grandfather’s neck, as if he were tired.
From the window of the car as we left, I saw the girl standing alone on the roadside, watching us go. She looked like any of the poor women there, but prettier, a small thing in the crowd. I assumed that she would cry out, chase us. But she held her shawl closed at her neck, and then a train of women in colorful wraps came by with basins of water on their heads, and the girl was lost among them, and in the swirling dust the car had left behind.
For a while, Didi complained and kicked, and then he fell asleep. Wu closed his eyes and held him, oblivious now of the bumps in the road, of the film reel of Africa outside the window, which for him was becoming a memory.
A few weeks later, the photographer came all the way from Mankono to my village on a bicycle to present me with the picture of Wu and me at the Mankono jail. I asked if he had news of the girl, but he shook his head no. Then he tucked the money I offered him into the pocket of his shirt, mounted his bicycle, and started back the way he’d come. In the picture, Wu and I looked more severe than in real life, taller. The fact that we’d been holding hands didn’t make it into the frame.
There was a certified envelope from Abidjan waiting for me at the Séguéla post office the next time I went in. I waited until I was back in my hut to open it. Along with the money, Wu had included a brief note, which someone had typed for him in French. The Chinese Embassy had arranged a visa for Didi, and they would soon be leaving for 4368696e61. “Things are good now,” he wrote. “What small thing I could have salvaged from this nightmare, I have.” He thanked me for what I’d done for him, wished me the best. If I was ever in [REDACTED], I must visit his sister. If ever in 4368696e61, I must come and see him.
Time passed, and the news that my neighbors listened to on their transistor radios spoke of more and more trouble. Everyone was thinking about what would happen to the country, about what would happen to the village, and how they would survive the coming war. I was thinking, too. Somewhere, in the bush beyond Mankono, a young girl gazed at these same stars and wondered about her son. Somewhere in a tenement in 4368696e61, a boy was growing taller each day, learning in a new language how to articulate to his grandfather his need now for rice, for candy, for juice, for toys, and, soon enough, for his father as well as his mother. 

