LONG-DISTANCE CLIENT
By Allegra Goodman

He was at work when it began. We offer a choice of two plans,” Mel told the new programmer on the phone. On the desk, his computer beamed at him, along with Sam and Annie, in their school pictures, his grown son and daughter fixed in first- and third-grade amber. The office was relatively quiet, the open-plan space still cavernous, although Mel was drawing up contracts and issuing 43616e616461s as fast as he could.
A couple of programmers were batting birdies around with badminton racquets, and Mel was finishing the routine medical-benefits conversation when he glanced up from his cubicle to see an electrician grinning at him from a square hole in the ceiling where he’d popped out the acoustic tile.
“Yoo-hoo,” the electrician said.
Mel bristled. Carpenters didn’t bother him, nor did the badminton or the unpacking. He almost enjoyed the drag and pop of box cutters slicing cardboard, the long rips crisp and promising, like autumn and fresh school supplies. Still, he was stodgy, the oldest employee at isis. He was the entire human-resources department, and he couldn’t conduct business with electricians wisecracking from above.
“You can’t go wrong—they’re both terrific,” he explained to the new hire, as he gestured at the cable-dangling electrician to disappear. “And we do offer dental.” He stood up, pulling the receiver with him, but the cord wasn’t long enough and his phone slid off the desk. Too quickly, he turned to scoop it up. A prickle, not unlike an electric shock, raked the left side of his back, an agonizing spasm and a wave of panic.
“Hey, what’s wrong, Millstein?” Mel’s twenty-seven-year-old boss, Jonathan, sidled up carrying a cardboard carton a few minutes later. “You look bad.”
“Muscle spasm,” Mel gasped. “I’m just trying to walk it off.”
“Oh, is that all. I thought somebody died. Have some chips.” Jonathan reached into the carton and pulled out a small bag. “We finally got salt-and-vinegar.” He tossed Mel the packet.
Mel tried, but it hurt too much to lift his arm. The bag fell at his feet.
Jonathan stared for a moment, almost affronted. Then he laughed. “Here.” He steered Mel toward a hammock strung up on a stand near the bank of windows. “Lie down and chill.” With the cheerful force he employed in all his dealings, he flipped Mel into the net and sauntered off to the seminar room for a meeting.
“How will I get out?” Mel called. The question was not rhetorical.
Mel had been working for Internet Security Intelligence Systems since its earliest days, six weeks before. He had been an administrative assistant at the university when Jonathan and Aldwin and Orion and Jake incorporated and hired him away. They had just won a competition for their business plan, and were beating off scores of venture capitalists who flocked and flapped and circled back again with more and more money.
“Work for us a year and see how you like it,” Jonathan had told Mel. “We’re all students here. You know us already—you see us in the department every day. We’ll pay you more.”
“More than what?” Mel had asked. Caution was his intent, but he cringed at his own question; suddenly he sounded conniving and greedy.
Jonathan welcomed this thinking, however, and chuckled appreciatively. “More,” he said. “More than whatever you make now. But that’s not really the point.”
“The point being?” Mel tried to chuckle, too.
“Here’s the thing,” Jonathan said, and he wasn’t laughing at all. Laughing was already out of date. “We’re going to be gazillionaires.”
Now, flat on his back in the hammock, staring out at the white February sky, Mel knew isis to be as divinely productive as the winged Egyptian goddess from whom the company took its name. The company had already doubled in size and signed its first major contracts. Jonathan flew almost weekly on secret missions to [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], where the first isiscryptographic solutions were being beta tested. Back in [REDACTED], Aldwin auditioned the vulture capitalists, probing their financial and intellectual resources. Those investors who could grasp the rudiments of the isis model advanced to further talks with Jonathan; those who could not were summarily rejected. Mel watched in awe as Jonathan brushed off seasoned businessmen twice his age. Just the other morning, Mel had arrived to find four columns of V.C.s’ names scribbled on the office whiteboard under the headings Bozos, Morons, Losers, Sharks. It was 1999.
If he lay perfectly still, he felt no pain, but the moment he shifted his weight his muscles seized up again. “Ow, ow, ow,” he moaned, and fell back into the hammock. A birdie drifted overhead and caught in the netting near his feet, and then Orion and Jake were gazing at him where he lay tangled in the hammock’s web: gray slacks, button-down shirt, lace-up shoes, and spectacles, trussed up as if by a giant spider.
“Sorry. Were you sleeping?” Orion asked.
“I think I’ve thrown my back out,” Mel told them.
“Bummer,” Jake said. “How’d you do that?”
“I . . . my telephone . . .”
They were tall, lanky programmers. From this angle, their arms looked extraordinarily long. He could see the stubble under their chins. Orion wore his blond hair in a ponytail. Jake’s mop fell into his eyes. The two of them seemed to play all day and work all night. They were like wild horses.
“Your telephone attacked you, huh?”
“Never mind. Help me out.”
Gingerly, he sat up in bed the next morning, pivoted, placed his feet on the floor, and stood. He felt somewhat better, but he couldn’t turn without pain. He could move only robotically, in straight planes and lines. “Barbara,” he called to his wife, but she remained absorbed in her prayer book by the window. She was blue-eyed, fair, and soft-featured, easily bruised, a nurse by training, though she hadn’t practiced for twenty years. She’d given up her job to devote herself to the children, who were not overcome with gratitude and had been urging her for years to go back to work, or at least to volunteer somewhere. “You should get a life, Mom,” Annie had suggested at Thanksgiving.
Barbara took umbrage at this. “I have a life, thank you very much,” she snapped, and plunged a serving spoon deep into the cranberry sauce.
“Nice,” Sam whispered sarcastically to his sister. Of course, the kids had no idea what kind of life their mother was getting herself into.
“Good morning,” Mel called out.
Barbara lifted one finger and kept praying, swaying slightly in her nightgown and quilted slippers.
He sighed, inched his way into the bathroom, showered, dressed, and went down to the kitchen, where he poured himself a lonely bowl of cereal. God had entered the house. Stealthily at first, modestly and quietly, God had crept inside Mel’s split-level. He’d smuggled Himself in inside a loaf of challah. He’d stowed away in the pages of Barbara’s black prayer book, and staked out every doorway in the mezuzahs Barbara had nailed up, each containing a little Hebrew scroll proclaiming His name. Mel darted a look at the mezuzah on the doorframe of the kitchen; it was ceramic, and painted in naïve Middle Eastern fashion with a blue five-fingered hand. The hand itself was decorated with a dark, almost Egyptian-looking eye, which gazed down upon Mel balefully.

Stiff and slow, Mel eased himself into his coat. “Goodbye,” he called. He listened for a moment. “I’m heading out.”
Then, just as he stepped into the frigid garage to drive to the station, he sensed Barbara coming up behind him, book and reading glasses in hand, still silent so as not to interrupt her prayers, but blowing kisses all the same.
He lived in Canaan, almost halfway between [REDACTED] and [REDACTED], on Fuller Circle, a small road linking Emerson and Thoreau Streets. The street names lent a literary air to the modest 43616e616461s and white ranch houses in the neighborhood, although the only Transcendentalists who had ever taken up residence in the town were the Bialystoker Hasidim, who had set up house on Alcott. These Bialystokers, Rabbi Zylberfenig and his wife and children, had been sent as emissaries from [REDACTED] to return the unaffiliated Jews of Canaan to Judaism.
Mel shuddered as he drove past the Bialystokers’ low-slung, neatly painted gray ranch. He was a fair-minded man, unprejudiced and respectful toward minorities. He had drafted his company’s declaration: “isis is an equal-opportunity employer. Applicants will receive appropriate consideration regardless of race, color, creed, age, gender, sexual orientation, or country of origin.” Those were his words, and he lived by them. Still, when he saw the little Zylberfenig boys running across the slushy front yard, and screaming in Yiddish, their hair long and curling under black velvet yarmulkes as big as soup bowls, their white shirts untucked and fringes flying, he felt only revulsion and embarrassment, mounting anxiety for his neighborhood, his home, and especially his wife. When it came to these fringe members of his own faith, Mel could not remain calm and rational; he could not respect differences, but sped past, silently screaming.
The office was in an uproar when he arrived. Orion had crashed isis 2.0 just hours before deployment. Screen after screen of code flashed before Jake and Orion as they leaned in, debugging furiously. Aldwin was closeted with yet another pair of potential investors, but Jonathan paced, taut and angry, firing off suggestions.
“What you should have done—” he said.
“Hey, stop back-seat programming,” Orion protested.
“Stop fucking with my code,” Jonathan snarled.
“You said test the system.”
“Yeah, not break the system.”
“Well, I guess the system failed the test.”
“Could you guys just shut up?” Jake pleaded.
There was not a badminton racquet in sight; the other programmers were typing madly in their cubicles, all hands on deck except for a couple of new hires, who were standing by uncertainly.
“You should have listened to me the first time,” Jonathan told Orion.
“No, you should have listened to me when I said it wasn’t ready,” Orion retorted.
“Make it ready.” Jonathan’s voice was deadly quiet.
“Welcome,” Mel told the new kids, with perhaps more cheer than the situation warranted. He ushered them to his cubicle for paperwork and laminated clip-on 43616e616461s, isis fleece vests, and baseball caps. “We’ll get you started on some new machines. And you’ll need desks.”
By lunchtime, Jake had found the bug. Aldwin had got rid of the investors, Jonathan was on the phone stalling sys. admins. in [REDACTED], Sunnyvale, and [REDACTED], while the work of patching and mending the broken code began. The programmers were frantic, but no longer desperate. Mel circuited the office slowly, trying to walk off the pain that was escalating up his side.
“Let me give you the number of my Alexander teacher,” said Danica, the company secretary, from her perch atop a giant exercise ball. “I swear, this guy saved my life when I hurt my hip last year.”
“What did he do to you?” Mel asked.
“Nothing,” Danica said, bouncing slightly. She was twenty-three, a modern dancer. “That was the most amazing thing about it. He barely even touched me.”
"Why don’t you just go see a doctor?” Annie asked when he and Barbara called that weekend.
“I did,” Mel said. “He gave me muscle relaxants, and they knocked me out.”
“O.K.,” she said, and he could picture his little girl, the psych major, rolling her eyes. “So why don’t you get acupuncture?”
“Acupuncture!”
Barbara chided Annie gently from the phone in the bedroom. “Your father does not like needles.”
“Oh, yeah,” she said, her voice wondering as she remembered this arcane fact from the distant past.
“Why don’t you get some exercise?” Sam asked when they finally reached him at Amherst. “That’s probably all it is. You’re sitting around all the time.”
“He could walk to the station,” Barbara mused. She had a way of talking about him in the third person to the kids, even when he was there.
He was exhausted, but he could not sleep. His back seized up as soon as he lay down. It throbbed as he sat at his desk, and he ended up standing on the train home. He was not in such terrible shape, not at all the couch potato his son supposed. He was a few pounds overweight, but nothing to deserve this.
“I think,” Barbara ventured cautiously as they ate dinner at the end of the week, “you might want to talk to Rabbi Zylberfenig.”
“Zylberfenig! Because he knows so much about back pain?”
“He gives good advice,” Barbara said.
Mel looked at her across the white tablecloth. Flickering candles, two loaves of challah, goblets of red wine, a pot roast, and a potato kugel stood between him and his wife. “How old is Rabbi Zylberfenig?” he demanded.
“He’s got seven children.”
“And what’s that supposed to mean?”
“He’s older than we were at his age.”
“Barbara, I don’t know what’s wrong with you,” he burst out. “You’re obsessed with these people. It’s a cult. The Bialystokers are taking over your life.” He eased himself to his feet and began to clear the table.
“They help me,” she said. Then, in a small voice, “You know I’ve always hated my name.”
He looked at her uneasily, unsure where this was going.
“Did you know Barbara means ‘barbarian’?”
“No,” he said, “I don’t think that’s right. That can’t be true.”
“I’d prefer to go by my Hebrew name,” she said, nervous but steadfast. “I’d like to be called Basha. Could you just . . . think about it?”
“No! I can’t think about it—”
“I realize you don’t like change,” she said.
“Why do you say that? I don’t like it because it’s not your name. That’s not you—that is not the woman I married.”
“I’m not a barbarian,” she said.
He took tiny steps. Holding still, he bore his backache like a hundred-pound weight; one false move and an iron grip took his breath away.
He went in for tests; he tried sleeping on the floor; he purchased a new pillow for his bed and carried a special foam wedge cushion with him on the train. He looked as though he had two black eyes, he was so bruised and swollen from his attempts to sleep. One morning, he dragged himself into the office with his dripping umbrella, and Danica said, “All right, I’m calling and making an appointment for you.”
“What, with this Alexander person? No, I didn’t like the sound of that.”

“I’m sorry, I can’t stand looking at you anymore,” Danica said, dialling. “Can you make it at 8 a.m.Tuesday?”
“No, I can’t,” Mel spluttered. “I’d have to take the early train.”
“So?” Danica shot back.
And she was right. What did it matter when he left in the morning? He was up all night anyway.
Bobby Bruce, Alexander Instructor, practiced above New Words in Inman Square. He did not provide directions to his office but allowed his patients to wander around the back of the brown shingled bookstore and up the wooden wheelchair ramp to a rear door unmarked except for the admonition “Push Hard” on a card taped next to the buzzer.
The stairs inside were steep, graycarpeted, and creaky. At the top, Mel pushed open a glass door and entered a waiting room with a wood-grain coffee table, a [REDACTED] Spring water dispenser, and a futon covered with a midnight- blue print with gold stars and moons. There was not a single magazine to read, and there was no way Mel was sitting on the futon.
“Hi.” Bobby had been standing in the doorway to the examining room, studying Mel the whole time.
“Hello. Good morning,” Mel replied. He took off his gray wool coat. “How are you?”
Bobby said nothing. He was tall, gaunt, and shaggy-haired, like a starving wolf, and he wore an untucked striped shirt and washed-out jeans. He didn’t seem to notice the coat in Mel’s hands. Mel propped it stiffly on the futon.
Several shelves’ worth of color-coded manila folders filled the examining room, and Mel was surprised and grateful to see that he was not Bobby’s only patient. There was a long table covered with white paper, as in a doctor’s office, but Bobby did not ask Mel to sit down. There was also a gray metal desk and a folding chair. A large white combination blotter/calendar lay on the desk, along with a black rotary telephone and two photographs, one of a snowy mountain and one of a middle-aged woman with brown hair hanging down in braids on either side of her face.
“Is there any paperwork you’d like me to fill out?”
“No,” Bobby said. He opened a desk drawer and extracted a new manila folder, then pulled and pulled and finally yanked open the top drawer of the desk to reveal a grubby pencil, three paper clips, and one marble rolling around. He took out the pencil and wrote Mel’s name on the folder. Mel’s eyes widened. He had never seen anyone write so slowly or use such a miserable stub of a pencil without giving up and searching for a pen, a computer, a typewriter. For this he’d taken the early train?
“All right.” Empty-handed, Bobby stood before Mel.
“Well, what would you like me to do?” Mel asked. “Would you like to see the range of motion I’ve got? Should I explain how I injured myself?”
Bobby shook his head.
“I figured you’d want to know when the pain started.”
“No,” Bobby admitted. “Not particularly.”
“What, then?” Mel demanded.
“Why don’t you turn toward me,” Bobby said mildly, “and we’ll see if we can make some adjustments.”
“I am standing up and facing you,” Mel snapped.
“Turn and face me,” Bobby said.
“I don’t understand,” said Mel. He was looking Bobby squarely in the face, or, rather, looking up slightly, since Mel was on the short side and Bobby was so tall.
“No, you’re not quite centered,” Bobby said, and he touched Mel’s right shoulder with his long fingertips. His touch was as light and diffident as his voice, but he pushed Mel ever so slightly. He touched Mel’s chin, then almost imperceptibly turned Mel’s head. He reached around to run his fingers up Mel’s spine and again touched Mel’s right shoulder. “There you go.”
“I feel like I’m leaning to the right now,” Mel said petulantly.
“No,” Bobby told him, “you’re straight now.”
“I’m definitely leaning to the right.”
Bobby nodded. “You’ll feel that way for a while, but the reason is, in fact, you’ve been walking around all this time leaning about two inches to the left.” He looked into Mel’s eyes and suddenly, in spite of himself, Mel realized the truth of this. He had been leaning. His entire body had been out of kilter, and now he was back at center. Suddenly, he realized from the enormity of its absence that he was not in pain.
He couldn’t analyze or explain Bobby’s methods (“I know, I know,” Danica said, “it’s the bizarrest thing”), but they worked. After each Tuesday session, he glided down the stairs, his shoulders centered, his head poised, his entire body several inches taller than it had been when he arrived. He floated through the day as buoyant as a fresh helium balloon. If only Bobby’s work had been permanent, he would have been entirely happy, but he could not help sinking a little the next day, and a little more the next, until, by the end of the week, he had fallen entirely into his former knotted state.
Monday mornings, the commute was hardest. He could feel the pressure building on his back. There were times he thought he might faint. He leaned against the window of the train.
“Would it be possible to switch to a Monday appointment?” he asked Bobby.
“No,” Bobby said.
“You’re completely booked?”
“I don’t work Mondays,” Bobby said.
“Yeah, but I do! And after the weekend I can barely move.”
“Hmm.”
He looked at Bobby hopefully. “Would you think about it?”
“Nope,” Bobby said.
“You don’t understand,” Mel muttered.
He had awakened early Sunday morning to the sound of pots and pans clattering and a smell of gas. Rushing into the kitchen in his bathrobe, he’d discovered Rabbi Zylberfenig standing with a lit blowtorch next to the open oven.
Barbara was beaming. “We’re kashering the kitchen.”
“You’re what? What did you say? I’m sorry?”
Barbara dumped a pile of silverware into a pot of boiling water on the stove. “I told you I’d be doing some cleaning.”
“No. No. Cleaning is one thing. Torching my oven is something entirely different.”
“I didn’t think you’d mind,” she said. “You don’t cook,” she added.
“It’s O.K. It’s all right.” The Rabbi turned off the blowtorch and extended his hand to Mel. “It’s quite understandable you’re surprised the kitchen is turned upside down, but I assure you the food will be as good as ever. Maybe even improved!”
Mel backed away from the young bearded man in his black frock coat and white shirt, his black round-brimmed hat and his shiny black dress shoes. “Listen, I’m an agnostic, O.K.?” he blurted out. This was not so much a point of information as a desperate jab in self-defense on the threshold of his kitchen.
The Rabbi smiled. His eyes were round and the palest blue. “Agnostic! That’s good—that’s wonderful. You are full of questions, Mordechai. It’s a wonderful place to start.”
“Who’s Mordechai?” Mel asked, bewildered. Then he realized that the Rabbi had called him by his Hebrew name. A searing flame swept up his left side. Barbara must have told the Rabbi. He felt utterly exposed. Betrayed. His Hebrew name was like his parents’ living room, a place no one entered except for weddings and funerals. His Hebrew name was his mother’s white sofa; it was her silver tea set on the sideboard, garish and grandiose, mummified in plastic wrap, never tarnished and never used.

“My wife is turning into something frightening,” Mel confided to Bobby now. “I barely recognize her anymore.”
Bobby took this in with a sad smile. He touched Mel’s shoulder with his long healing fingertips. Then, almost in the same moment, he was ushering Mel to the door. No matter how late Bobby began a session, he always ended on time. “I’ve got my eight-thirty,” he said.
“Where?” Mel protested, gesturing at the empty waiting room. He’d never once seen anyone arrive at eight-thirty.
“It’s a long-distance client,” Bobby explained.
“Oh,” Mel said, as if he understood. Only after he left did he begin to think Bobby was putting him off—or maybe just putting him on. Long-distance Alexander treatment? How did that work? How could Bobby possibly make adjustments over the phone?
He arrived at isis with that niggling discomfort—the confusion about Bobby’s imaginary client—and as he headed down the hall Jonathan called out to him, “Hey, Millstein. We’ve got a new plan to get you some help. We’re promoting Danica. She’s going to be giving you a hand around here.”
“Danica! What do you mean, giving me a hand?”
“With the hires, the recruitment, all the stuff you have to do. She can take the desk next to yours.”
There was something so flippant in this, so ferociously casual, that Mel felt his teeth clench. “What are you saying?” he asked. “What do you propose for her new position?”
“Co-director, human resources. What’s the problem?”
“Jonathan, this isn’t usually the . . . Is she taking my job? Sharing it with me? Where does she fit in the chain of command?”
“Relax,” Jonathan said. “You aren’t losing your job or anything.”
“Losing my job?” Mel echoed.
“Hey, cheer up. Stop whining.” Jonathan’s cell phone rang, and he examined the caller [REDACTED] and smiled.
“Whining?” Mel repeated in disbelief as Jonathan hurried off.
Aldwin assured him afterward that Jonathan hadn’t meant anything by this—that Jonathan had a unique way of talking, and that Mel was not being demoted. Far from it. Aldwin was Jonathan’s opposite, smooth and conciliatory where his partner was rough. Mel had seen the two of them handle other people together.
All day he worked in a cloud. He tried to carry on as usual, but he could not. He was working with Danica now. He had to orient her and help her settle in, and he felt in his very spine that he was training his replacement. It was only Tuesday afternoon, and the pain was already rising again. He thought of it as thepain now, not his pain but a larger, impersonal force. The pain—the way opera singers speak of their instrument, the voice.
This was a mistake; this was all a mistake. He should never have left the university to work with these kids. All around him programmers were typing, juggling, bouncing rubber balls. They knew nothing, cared nothing. Why had he come here—apart from his trouble with his former boss, apart from the promises of stock, the chance of millions? He should leave, resign now, gather up the pictures on his desk and run away. One-handed, he phoned Bobby.
“Yeah,” Bobby said.
“I think I’ve pulled something again,” Mel told him in a low voice. “I’m all out of alignment.”
“Mmm-hmm.”
“Could I come back? Just for a few minutes?”
Bobby sighed.
“Yes?”
“I’m busy,” Bobby said.
Mel stared at the phone. He had never known anyone demonstrably less busy.
“Besides,” Bobby added laconically, “my wife is sick.”
That spring, Jonathan and Aldwin chose their venture capitalists, and a C.E.O. as well. isisMission Statements printed on royal-blue card stock appeared on all the walls.
They began: “1. Have fun. 2. Never ignore profit.” Danica came to Mel constantly with questions and comments and little queries from new hires. He worked twice as hard, now that he was co-directing human resources with her. She gave him an exercise ball to match her own and insisted that if he jettisoned his swivel chair all his problems would be solved.
On his very first attempt to balance on the ball, Mel slid off and injured himself all over again. Head down, eyes smarting, he was pacing the diminished open space between cubicles when Bobby called to cancel that week’s appointment.
“No!” Mel moaned. “You’ve got to understand, I’m in pain.”
“Yeah, pain is no fun,” Bobby said with his usual calm.
“Please. Is there any other day we can reschedule?”
“No can do. Jeannie’s not feeling well.”
“Which one is that?” He heard the sarcasm creeping into his voice, but he was hurting and he couldn’t help himself. “Is Jeannie the long-distance client?”
Bobby’s simple response chastened him. “She’s my wife.”
Bobby began to cancel regularly, with scarcely any notice. Sometimes he called Mel at home the night before. He had to take Jeannie to the herbalist or the hydrotherapist or the hypnotist. The excuses became more and more obscure. Once, he cancelled because Jeannie’s viola was in the shop and he had to drive her down to the [REDACTED] to try out an instrument she was thinking of borrowing. Twice Bobby cancelled when Jeannie was playing with her all-women Seneca Falls Quartet. Bobby called and said, “I’m driving this week.”
“What! Again?” Mel burst out. “Isn’t there any other way she can get to the performance?”
“Oh, it’s just a rehearsal,” Bobby said.
“A rehearsal. And there is no one else to drive her?”
“Well, she could probably drive herself,” Bobby mused.
“Please,” Mel said, “I’m begging you. I’m begging her.”
Bobby was quiet for a moment on the other end of the line. Then he said again, “She’s just not feeling real well.”
Mel pleaded, demanded, remonstrated. He even asked, “Are there exercises I could do at home? Are there books that I could read?”
“Nope,” Bobby said. “No good ones.”
“Aren’t there any tips you could give me for the days you cancel?” he begged Bobby at one session.
“No tips,” Bobby said, gazing at him steadily with his river-gray eyes. “Just be mindful. Be aware. There’s nothing else you can really do.”
“That’s it? Are you telling me I’m going to have to live with pain for the rest of my life?”
“Maybe,” Bobby said, so nonchalantly that Mel almost laughed.
“You have a terrible bedside manner,” Mel said.
“You aren’t in bed,” Bobby said.
“Could you do me a favor? Could you at least give me the dates of Jeannie’s rehearsals and performances, so I’ll know what to expect?”
“O.K., sure,” Bobby said. “You’re welcome to come with us, too. The next one is in Northampton.”
Mel stared at him. Sometimes he wondered if Bobby remembered why he was standing there in the office. Did Bobby seriously think that Mel was volunteering to crouch in the back of a car all the way out to western [REDACTED], only to sit for two hours more in a church somewhere? “No, I don’t think so.” The words escaped him. He was thinking aloud.
“Well, the viola is actually very interesting,” Bobby replied evenly, as if Mel had been arguing with him about music. “And that’s because it’s the inner voice. Jeannie says it’s got the least ego of the Western instruments.”

“O.K.,” Mel said.
“It’s gradualist, working from within.” Bobby looked off into the air contemplatively, even as Mel stood before him, silent but impatient, desperate for relief.
“That’s the political view,” Bobby said. “The thing I like about the viola is you really have to listen.”
That Friday, isis got its biggest contract to date. Yahoo! was adopting the isis system. Jonathan and Aldwin gathered all forty-two employees near the windows where the hammock had been, and the whole company whooped and cheered.
“This is your work,” Aldwin said, pointing to the programmers.
“You guys are super,” said the C.E.O., who spoke without obscenities and shaved and wore business apparel.
“You guys are animals!” Jonathan shouted, and raised his fist.
The programmers talked of convertibles and motorcycles. They debated which were fastest and which were overpriced—not that it mattered anymore! They spoke of vacations. A company camping trip in the High Sierra. No, a voyage down the River Nile, a cruise to see the Pyramids. It was a great day, and even as he stood, afraid to bend or turn, pinioned by pain, Mel felt proud.
He tried to tell Barbara what had happened as they sat in the den after dinner, she in the La-Z-Boy and he in a straight-backed chair with his special cushion wedged under him. “It’s an amazing thing, watching an entire company come to life like this. We had four thousand square feet of empty space and now . . .”
Barbara looked up from “Tales of the Bialystoker Rebbes” and nodded. “Do you know what the fifth Bialystoker said?”
He sighed.
“ ‘Consider all the riches in the world, all its beauties and pleasures. How much greater is the Holy One Blessed Be He than these.’ ”
“Uh-huh,” Mel said.
“But, wait, here’s the other part. ‘Consider all the suffering in the world, all its difficulties, poverty, and pain. How much greater is the Holy One Blessed Be He than these.’ According to legend, the fifth Bialystoker heard this from birds in the forest.”
“That was very perceptive of him,” Mel said.
Disappointed, Barbara turned back to her book. “You don’t have to be so ironic,” she murmured.
You don’t have to be such a raving Hasidic fanatic, he thought, but he didn’t say it. Instead, he sat, silent and furious. A few minutes later all the lights in the den blacked out.
“Oh, I’m sorry,” Barbara said. “I put them on timers so we wouldn’t have to turn the lights off on Shabbat. I guess I set them too early.”
In the dark, he sensed her waiting in her chair with her book in her lap. He felt confused and somehow trapped. Did she want him to turn the lights on for her? Or would she take offense if he did? She was sitting quite still, and he sat next to her. He wondered what good zillions would be for him and Barbara. What would they possibly spend them on—apart from a divorce?
That week, Bobby cancelled, and the next week as well. He said he had to take Jeannie in for treatment, but gave no further explanation.
“I wish you would come with me to services,” Barbara told Mel on Saturday morning. Her eyes were full of dreamy concern.
“I wish I were a horse,” Mel said.
Startled from her reverie, she turned to him with some alarm.
“Then I could sleep standing up.”
“Oh,” Barbara said, as if relieved, and laughed softly. “Do you remember when Annie wished she was a horse?”
“Of course I do,” said Mel, although he had no recollection of this at all.
The phone on the kitchen wall rang.
“First, she wanted to ride horses, and then she wanted to have a horse . . .”
The phone rang again.
“And then she said she just wanted to be a horse.”
Barbara had given up answering the phone on Saturdays. Mel picked up.
“Hey. It’s Bobby.”
“Oh,” Mel said. “Listen, why don’t you call on the weeks you can make it?”
“That’s what I’m doing. I’m calling to confirm Tuesday.” Bobby paused. “Jeannie’s dead.”
“Dead!”
“That’s right.”
Of course he’d known Jeannie was sick, but Bobby had never discussed the details, and Mel had assumed this was a long, wasting sort of disease, a multiyear type of battle—not something so quick. After all, Jeannie had been rehearsing all this time, and even performing. He realized with a pang that he would never hear her play. And he had been so offended by Bobby’s breezy invitation. He remembered that actually he liked chamber music—in small doses. The melodic kind, in any case, with a romping race to the finish. He could have told Barbara about the Seneca Falls Quartet, and they might have driven out to Northampton together. Barbara had played the piano years ago. They could have visited Sam at Amherst. Panicked, his eyes darted from the kitchen clock to Barbara’s round face to the mezuzah in the doorway, for he was mortified by his own thoughts, the laundry list and petty day-trip planner of his brain. Jeannie had died. And he’d been pressing Bobby all these weeks, anxious only about his own back. How insistently his ideas devolved upon himself. How whiny he had become—just as Jonathan had said. And he had always considered himself rather stoic, before he’d experienced chronic pain.
With some trepidation, he walked up Hampshire Street on Tuesday morning. He paused at the Flower Pot, where the window was painted “Floral Gifts for All Occasions . . . I Love You . . . Congratulations . . . Happy Birthday . . . Sympathy . . . Just Because.” He hesitated, and then ventured in. Shyly, he gazed at the orchids and the potted azaleas, the black buckets of giant daisies and baby sunflowers.
“May I help you?” the saleslady asked.
In glass refrigerators, the long-stemmed roses stood apart, chilly and elegant, coral, blood-red, cream, and white.
“Just looking,” he murmured, and slipped outside again.
Bobby was pale, his gaunt cheeks and gray hair ashen.
“I’m sorry,” Mel said.
Bobby nodded.
“It’s terrible,” Mel blurted out.
“Beyond measure,” Bobby agreed, and reached out and squared Mel’s shoulders.
He had lost almost all color, but he had not lost his touch. By the end of the session, Mel was standing straight again, his shoulders readjusted, his back aligned.
Mel lingered in the doorway. He wanted to say something, but he didn’t know what. “Thanks a million,” he said.
Bobby nodded. “I’d better go back.” It was eight-thirty, exactly.
Mel dreaded walking down the stairs; he feared the pain he knew awaited him, the tightening, the loneliness, the misalignment. “Long-distance client?” he asked hopefully, conversationally.
“Yup.” Bobby disappeared into the examining room, swinging the door behind him.
Mel strained his ears to hear a telephone or a radio or a computer’s whir and beep, but he heard nothing. He stared at the crack between door and jamb. He knew he should go, but he couldn’t leave. Who was this long-distance client? Some figment of Bobby’s imagination? Someone who had moved away? A rich eccentric who kept Bobby on retainer just for thinking about him? Was it a disciple of some sort—a black-belt Alexander student who took treatment telepathically? The one time Bobby had dropped a hint, he’d suggested something of the sort. Mel had grumbled, “Well, given all these scheduling problems maybe you should start treating me long-distance, too.”

Bobby had mulled this seriously. Then he said, “In your case, I don’t think it would do much good.”

“Oh, really?” Mel asked, sarcastic again.
“You’re not on that level yet,” Bobby explained. “It takes a lot of time.”
“Yeah, I’ll bet.”
“At least fifteen years.”
Still no noise. Mel strained his ears. All he heard was water in the building’s pipes, a distant rumbling of trucks outside. What could Bobby hear in there? Was it Jeannie? Had it been Jeannie all this time? What frequency, what inner voice did Bobby find to guide him?
He crept up to the door and peeked inside. Curious, skeptical, anguished, he spied Bobby plucking a patient’s file from the shelf. Bobby opened the manila folder on his desk and then, with great concentration, just as he did with Mel’s file, he pencilled the date inside. With his back to Mel, he sat down in the metal folding chair at the desk and sighed, even as he gazed out into the middle distance between Jeannie and the snowy mountain. The scene was utterly serious, even though it made no sense. Bobby’s manner was focussed, studious, entirely professional. He sat tall in his chair, head centered, shoulders at rest. And yet he wasn’t at rest. He leaned forward, listening, even as Mel did, waiting, watching for something not yet visible. He considered the empty space in front of him, making adjustments of the subtlest kind. 

