 FICTION  THE  BLOW  BY  J.  M.  COETZEE     he  blow  catches  him  from  the  right,  sharp  and  surprising  and  painful,  like  a  bolt  of  electricity,  lifting  him  up  offthe  bicycle.  Relax!  he  tells  himself  as  he  flies  through  the  air  (flies  through  the  air  with  the  greatest  of  ease!),  and  indeed  he  can  feel  his  limbs  go  obedi-  ently  slack.  Like  a  cat,  he  tells  himself:  roll,  then  spring  to  your  feet,  ready  for  what  comes  next.  That  is  not  quite  as  it  turns  out,  how-  ever.  Whether  because  his  legs  disobey  or  because  he  is  for  a  moment  stunned  (he  hears  rather  than  feels  the  impact  of  his  skull  on  the  bitumen,  distant,  wooden,  like  a  malletblow),  he  does  not  spring  to  his  feet  at  all  but,  on  the  con-  trary,  slides  metre  after  metre,  on  and  on,  until  he  is  quite  lulled  by  the  sliding.  He  lies  stretched  out,  at  peace.  It  is  a  glorious  morning.  The  sun's  touch  is  kind.  There  are  worse  things  than  let-  ting  oneself  go  slack,  waiting  for  one's  strength  to  return.  In  fact,  there  might  be  worse  things  than  having  a  quick  nap.  He  closes  his  eyes;  the  world  tilts  be-  neath  him,  rotates;  he  goes  absent.  Once,  briefly,  he  comes  back.  The  body  that  had  flown  so  lightly  through  the  air  has  grown  ponderous,  so  ponderous  that  for  the  life  of  him  he  cannot  lift  a  finger.  And  there  is  someone  looming  over  him,  cutting  off  his  air,  a  youngster  with  wiry  hair  and  spots  along  his  hairline.  &quot;My  bicycle,&quot;  he  says  to  the  boy,  enunciating  the  difficult  word  syllable  by  syllable.  He  wants  to  ask  what  has  become  of  his  bi-  cycle,  whether  it  is  being  taken  care  of,  since,  as  is  well  known,  a  bicycle  can  dis-  appear  in  a  flash;  but  before  those  words  will  come  he  is  gone  again.  MANN  GALLERY  e  is  being  rocked  from  side  to  side,  =  transported.  From  afar  voices  reach  $  him,  a  hubbub  rising  and  faﬂmg  to  a  z  rhythm  of  its  own.  What  is  going  on?  2  If  he  were  to  open  his  eyes,  he  would  2  know.  But  he  cannot  do  that  just  yet.  3  Something  like  panic  sweeps  over  him.  z  He  writhes;  a  groan  wells  up  and  bursts  x  from  his  throat.  &quot;Pain  bad?&quot;  a  voice  says.  &quot;Hold  still.&quot;  E  The  prick  of  a  needle.  An  instant  later  3  ~  the  pain  is  washed  away,  then  the  panic,  $then  consciousness  itself.  He  awakes  in  a  cocoon  of  dead  air.  $  He  tries  to  sit  up  but  cannot;  itis  as  if  &lt;  he  were  encased  in  concrete.  Around  3  him  whiteness  unrelieved:  white  ceiling,  ITLEED  (T  MIESENBER  white  sheets,  white  light;  also  a  grainy  whiteness,  like  old  toothpaste,  in  which  his  mind  seems  to  be  coated,  sothat  he  cannot  think  straight  and  grows  quite  desperate.  &quot;What  is  this?&quot;  he  mouths,  or  perhaps  even  shouts,  meaning,  What  is  this  that  is  being  done  to  me?  or  What  is  this  place  where  I  find  myself?  or  even  What  is  thisfate  that  has  befallen  me?  From  nowhere  a  young  woman  in  white  appears,pauses,  regards  him  watch-  fully.  Out  of  the  muddle  in  his  headhe  tries  to  create  an  interrogative.  Too  late!  With  a  smile,  and  a  reassuring  pat  on  the  arm  that  he  seems  strangely  to  hear  but  not  feel,  she  moves  on.  Is  it  serious?  If  there  is  time  for  only  one  question,  that  is  what  the  question  ought  to  be,  though  what  the  word  &quot;seri-  ous&quot;  might  mean  he  prefers  not  to  dwell  on.  He  tries  to  touch  the  right  leg,  the  leg  that  keeps  sending  obscure  signals  that  it  is  now  the  wrong  leg,  but  his  hand  will  notbudge;  nothing  will  budge.  The  young  woman  floats  back  into  his  field  of  vision.  &quot;No  worries,&quot;  she  says,  and  blesses  him  with  another  of  her  smiles,  her  positively  angelic  smiles.  &quot;'The  doctor  will  bewith  you  in  aminute.&quot;  And,  indeed,  before  a  minute  has  passed  a  young  man  who  must  be  the  doctor  re-  ferred  to  has  materialized  at  her  side  and  is  murmuring  in  her  ear.  &quot;Paul?&quot;  the  young  doctor  says.  &quot;Can  you  hear  me?  Do  I  have  the  name  right?  Paul  Rayment?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  says  carefully.  &quot;Good  day,  Paul.  You  will  be  feeling  a  little  fuzzy  right  now.  That's  because  you  have  had  a  shot  of  morphine.  We  will  be  going  into  surgery  in  a  short  while.  You  took  a  whack-I  don't  know  how  much  you  remember-and  it  has  left  your  leg  a  bit  of  a  mess.  We  are  going  to  have  a  look  and  see  how  much  of  it  we  can  save.  We  are  going  to  have  to  amputate,  but  we  will  save  what  we  can.&quot;  Something  must  happen  to  his  face  at  this  point,  because  the  young  man  does  a  surprising  thing.  He  reaches  out  to  touch  his  cheek,  and  then  lets  his  hand  rest  there,  cradling  his  old  man's  head.  It  is  the  kind  of  thing  a  woman  might  do,  a  woman  who  loved  one.  The  gesture  em-  barrasses  him,  but  he  cannot  decently  pull  away.  &quot;Will  you  trust  me  in  this?&quot;  the  doc-  tor  asks.  Dumbly,  he  blinks  his  eyes.  &quot;Good.&quot;  The  doctor  pauses.  &quot;We  don't  have  a  choice,  Paul,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;It  is  not  one  of  those  situations  where  we  have  a  choice.  Do  you  understand  that?  Do  I  have  your  consent?  I  am  not  going  to  ask  you  to  sign  on  the  dotted  line,  but  do  we  have  your  consent  to  proceed?  We  will  save  what  we  can,  but  you  took  quite  a  blow,  and  there  has  been  a  lot  of  dam-  age.  I  can't  say  right  now  whether  we  can  save  the  knee,  for  example.  The  knee  has  been  pretty  thoroughly  mashed,  and  some  of  the  tibia,  too.&quot;  As  if  it  knew  it  was  being  spoken  of,  as  if  these  terrible  words  had  roused  it  from  its  troubled  sleep,  the  right  leg  sends  him  a  shaft  of  jagged  white  pain.  He  hears  his  own  gasp,  and  then  the  thudding  of  blood  in  his  ears.  &quot;Right,&quot;  the  young  man  says,  and  pats  him  lightly  on  the  cheek.  'Time  to  M  »  get  moving.  e  awakes  very  much  more  at  ease  with  himself.  His  head  is  clear,  he  is  his  old  self  (full  of  beans!  he  thinks),  though  pleasantly  drowsy,  too;  he  could  settle  back  into  a  nap  at  any  moment.  The  leg  that  took  the  whack  feels  enor-  mous,  positively  elephantine,  but  there  is  no  pain.  The  door  opens  and  a  nurse  appears,  a  new,  fresh  face.  &quot;Feeling  better?&quot;  she  says,  and  then  quickly,  &quot;Don't  try  to  talk  yet.  Dr.  Hansen  will  be  along  in  a  while  to  have  a  chat.  In  the  meantime,  there  is  something  we  need  to  do.  So  could  I  ask  you  just  to  relax  awhile?&quot;  What  she  needs  to  do  while  he  re-  laxes,  it  transpires,  is  insert  a  catheter.  It  is  a  nasty  thing  to  have  done  to  one;  he  is  glad  that  itis  a  stranger  who  is  doing  it.  This  is  what  it  leads  to!  he  berates  him-  self.  This  is  what  it  leadsto  if  you  let  your  attention  wander  for  one  moment!  And  the  bicycle:  what  has  become  of  the  bi-  cycle?  How  am  I  going  to  do  the  shop-  ping  now?  All  my  fault  for  taking  Ma-  gill  Road!  And  he  curses  Magill  Road,  though  in  fact  he  has  been  cycling  Ma-  gill  Road  for  years  without  mishap.  What  young  Dr.  Hansen  has  to  pre-  sent  to  him,  when  he  arrives,  is,  first,  a  quick  overview  of  his  case.  As  regards  his  condition  in  general,  considering  what  can  and  does  happen  to  the  human  body  when  itis  hit  by  a  car,  he  can  congratulate  himself  that  itis  not  serious.  In  fact,  it  is  so  much  the  reverse  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  TT  CHoo-CHoo     of  serious  that  he  can  count  himself  lucky,  fortunate,  blessed.  The  crash  left  him  concussed,  yes,  but  he  was  saved  by  the  helmet  he  was  wearing.  Monitoring  will  continue,  but  there  is  no  sign  of  in-  tracranial  bleeding.  As  for  motor  func-  tions,  thepreliminary  indication  is  that  they  are  unimpaired.  He  lost  some  blood,  but  that  has  been  replaced.  If  he  is  wondering  about  the  stiffness  of  his  jaw,  the  jaw  is  not  broken,  merely  bruised.  The  abrasions  on  his  back  and  arm  look  worse  than  they  are;  they  will  heal  in  a  week  or  two.  Turning  to  the  leg  now,  the  leg  that  took  the  blow,  he  (Dr.  Hansen)  and  his  colleagues  were  not,  it  turned  out,  able  to  save  the  knee.  They  had  a  thorough  discussion,  and  the  decision  was  unan-  imous.  The  impact-he  will  show  him  later  on  the  X-ray-was  directly  to  the  knee,  and  there  was  an  added  compo-  nent  of  rotation,  so  the  joint  was  shat-  tered  and  twisted  at  the  same  time.  In  a  younger  person  they  might  perhaps  have  gone  for  a  reconstruction,  but  a  recon-  struction  of  the  required  order  would  entail  a  series  of  operations,  one  after  another,  extending  over  a  year,  even  two  years,  with  a  success  rate  of  less  than  fifty  per  cent,  so  all  in  all,  considering  his  age,  it  was  thought  best  to  take  the  leg  off  cleanly  above  theknee,  leaving  a  good  length  of  bone  for  a  prosthesis.  He  (Dr.  Hansen)  hopes  that  he  (Paul  Ray-  ment)  will  come  to  accept  the  wisdom  of  that  decision.  &quot;I  am  sure  you  have  plenty  of  ques-  tions,&quot;  the  doctor  concludes.  &quot;And  I  will  be  happy  to  try  to  answer  them,  but  per-  haps  not  now,  better  in  the  morning,  after  you  have  had  some  sleep.&quot;  hat  is  not  all,  however.  That  is  not  the  end  of  it.  First  the  violation,  then  consent  to  the  violation.  There  are  papers  tosign  before  he  will  be  left  alone,  and  the  papers  prove  to  be  surprisingly  difficult.  Family,  for  instance.  Who  and  where  arehisfamily,  the  papers  ask,  and  how  should  they  be  informed?  And  insur-  ance.  What  coverage  does  his  policy  provide?  Insurance  is  no  problem.  He  is  in-  sured  to  the  hilt-there  is  acard  in  his  wallet  to  prove  it,  he  is  nothing  if  not  prudent  (but  where  is  his  wallet,  where  arehis  clothes?).  Family  is  a  less  straight-  78  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  forward  matter.  He  has  a  sister.  She  passed  on  twelve  years  ago,  but  she  still  lives  in  him  or  with  him,  just  as  he  has  a  mother,  who,  at  the  times  when  she  is  not  in  or  with  him,  awaits  the  angels'  clarion  from  her  plot  in  the  cemetery  in  Ballarat.  A  father,  too,  doing  his  wait-  ing  farther  away,  in  a  cemetery  in  Pau,  in  [REDACTED].  Are  they  his  family,  the  three  of  them?  Those  into  whose  lives  you  are  born  do  not  pass  away,  he  would  like  to  inform  whoever  composed  the  ques-  tion.  You  bear  them  with  you,  as  you  hope  to  be  borne  by  those  who  come  after  you.  But  there  is  no  space  on  the  form  for  ex-  tended  answers.  What  he  canbe  altogether  more  def-  inite  about  is  that  he  has  neither  wife  nor  offspring.  He  was  married  once,  but  the  partner  in  that  enterprise  is  no  longer  part  of  him.  She  has  escaped  him,  wholly  escaped.  How  she  managed  the  trick  he  has  yet  to  grasp,  but  itis  so:  she  has  es-  caped  into  a  life  of  her  own.  For  all  prac-  tical  purposes,  therefore,  and  certainly  for  the  purposes  of  the  form,  he  is  un-  married:  single,  solitary,  alone.  Family:  NONE,  he  writes  in  block  let-  ters,  the  nurse  overseeing,  and  draws  lines  through  the  other  questions  and  signs  the  forms,  both  ofthem.  Motor  functions  unimpaired.  The  pills  he  accepts  are  meant  to  blunt  the  pain  and  make  him  sleep,  but  he  doesnot  sleep.  This-this  strange  bed,  this  bare  room,  this  smell  both  anti-  septic  and  faintly  urinous-this  is  clearly  no  dream,  it  is  the  real  thing,  as  realas  things  get.  Yet  the  whole  of  today,  if  it  is  all  the  same  day,  if  time  still  means  any-  thing,  has  the  feel  of  a  dream.  Certainly  this  Zing,  which  now  for  the  first  time  he  inspects  under  the  sheet,  this  mon-  strous  object  swathed  in  white  and  at-  tached  tohis  hip,  comes  straight  out  of  the  land  of  dreams.  And  what  about  the  other  thing,  the  thing  that  the  young  man  spoke  of  with  such  enthusiasm-  when  will  that  make  its  appearance?  Not  in  all  his  days  has  he  seen  a  naked  pros-  thesis.  The  picture  that  comes  to  mind  is     of  a  wooden  shaft  with  a  bark  at  its  head,  like  a  harpoon,  and  rubber  suckers  on  its  three  little  feet.  It  is  out  of  Surrealism.  It  is  out  of  Dali.  He  reaches  out  a  hand  (the  three  middle  fingers  are  strapped  together,  he  notices  for  the  first  time)  and  presses  it.  It  gives  back  no  sensation  at  all.  It  is  like  a  block  of  wood.  Just  a  dream,  he  saysto  himself,  and  falls  into  the  deepest  sleep.  “Today  we're  going  to  have  you  walk-  ing,&quot;  young  Dr.  Hansen  says.  &quot;This  afternoon.  Not  a  long  walk,  just  a  few  steps  togive  you  the  feel  of  it.  Elaine  and  I  will  be  there  to  lend  a  hand.&quot;  He  nods  at  the  nurse.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  walk  today,&quot;  he  says.  He  is  learning  to  talk  through  clenched  teeth.  It  is  not  just  that  the  jaw  is  bruised,  the  molars  on  that  side  have  been  loosened,  too;  he  cannot  chew.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  rushed.  I  don't  want  a  prosthesis.&quot;  &quot;That's  fine,&quot;  Dr.  Hansen  says.  &quot;It's  not  a  prosthesis  we  are  talking  about,  anyway-that  is  still  down  the  line-  this  is  just  rehabilitation,  the  first  step  in  rehabilitation.  But  we  can  start  tomor-  row  or  the  next  day.  Just  so  you  can  see  it  isn't  the  end  of  the  world,  losing  a  leg.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  say  it  again:  I  don't  want  a  prosthesis.&quot;  Dr.  Hansen  and  Nurse  Elaine  ex-  change  glances.  &quot;If  you  don't  want  a  prosthesis,  what  would  you  prefer?&quot;  &quot;I  would  prefer  to  take  care  of  myself.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  end  of  subject.  We  won't  rush  you  into  anything,  I  promise.  Now,  can  I  talk  to  you  about  your  leg?  Can  I  tell  you  about  care  of  the  leg?&quot;  Care  of  my  leg?  He  is  smoldering  with  anger-can  they  not  see  it?  You  anes-  thetized  me  and  hacked  off  my  leg  and  dropped  it  in  the  refuse  for  someone  to  collect  and  toss  into  the  fire.  How  can  you  stand  there  talking  about  care  of  my  leg?  &quot;Who  did  this  to  me?&quot;  he  says.  He  cannot  shout,  because  he  cannot  open  his  jaws,  but  that  suits  him,  suits  his  teeth-grinding  rage.  &quot;Who  hit  me?&quot;  There  are  tears  in  his  eyes.  he  nights  are  endless.  He  is  too  hot,  he  is  too  cold;  the  leg,  enclosed  in  its  swaddling,  itches  and  cannot  be  reached.  If  he  holds  his  breath  he  can  hear  the  ghostly  creeping  of  his  assaulted  flesh  as  it  tries  to  knit  itself  together  again.  When  sleep  comes  it  is  sudden  and  brief,  as  if  gusts  of  leftover  anesthetic  were  rising  up  from  his  lungs  to  overwhelm  him.  Night  or  day,  time  drags.  There  is  a  television  set  facing  the  bed,  but  he  has  no  interest  in  television  or  in  the  magazines  that  some  kind  agency  has  provided.  He  stares  at  his  watch  face,  imprinting  the  position  of  the  hands  on  his  mind.  Then  he  closes  his  eyes,  tries  to  think  of  other  things-his  own  breathing,  his  grandmother  sitting  at  the  kitchen  table  plucking  a  chicken,  bees  among  the  flowers,  anything.  He  opens  his  eyes.  The  hands  have  not  stirred.  It  is  as  though  they  had  to  push  their  way  through  glue.  ?  I  'wo  weeks  pass;  Margaret  McCord  paysa  visit.  The  McCords  arehis  oldest  friends  in  Adelaide;  Margaret  is  upset  at  having  heard  so  late,  and  full  of  righteous  indignation  against  whoever  did  this  to  him.  &quot;I  hope  you  are  going  to  sue,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  have  no  intention  of  suing,&quot;  he  replies.  &quot;Too  many  openings  for  com-  edy.  I  want  my  leg  back,  failing  which  ...  I  leave  that  side  of  things  to  the  insur-  ance  people.&quot;  Margaret  shakes  her  head.  &quot;What  a  pity!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What  a  pity!&quot;  Sweet  of  her  to  say  so,  he  reflects  af-  terward.  Poor  Paul,  poor  dear,  how  diffi-  cult,  what  you  are  having  to  go  through!  That  was  what  she  meant,  what  she  knew  he  would  understand  her  to  mean.  We  all  go  through  something  of  this  sort,  he  would  like  to  remind  her,  in  the  end.  What  surprises  him  about  the  whole  hospital  business  is  how  swiftly  concern  passes  from  patching  up  his  leg  (&quot;Excellent!&quot;  Dr.  Hansen  says,  probing  the  stump  with  a  well-mani-  cured  finger.  &quot;It  is  coming  together  beautifully.  You  will  soon  be  yourself  again&quot;)  to  the  question  of  how  he  will  (their  word)  cope  once  he  is  set  loose  in  the  world  again.  Indecently  early,  or  so  it  seems  to  him,  a  social  worker,  Mrs.  Putts  or  Putz,  is  brought  into  the  picture.  &quot;You're  still  a  young  man,  Mr.  Rayment,  Paul,&quot;  she  in-  forms  him  in  the  cheery  manner  that  she  must  have  been  taught  to  employ       upon  the  old.  &quot;You  will  want  to  remain  independent,  and  of  course  that's  good,  but  for  quite  some  time  you  are  going  to  need  nursing,  specialized  nursing,  which  we  can  help  to  arrange.  In  the  longer  term,  even  once  you  are  mobile,  you  are  going  to  need  someone  to  be  there  for  you,  to  give  you  a  hand,  to  do  the  shop-  ping  and  cooking  and  cleaning  and  so  forth.  Is  there  no  one?&quot;  He  thinks  it  over,  shakes  his  head.  &quot;No,  there  is  no  one,&quot;  he  says.  By  which  he  means  that  there  is  no  one  who  will  conceive  it  as  his  or  her  Confucian  duty  to  devote  himself  or  herself  to  caring  for  his  wants,  his  cooking  and  cleaning  and  so  forth.  What  interests  him  in  the  question  is  what  it  reveals  about  his  condition  as  viewed  by  Mrs.  Putts,  who  must  have  had  franker  exchanges  with  the  medi-  cal  people  than  have  yet  been  afforded  him.  From  these  exchanges,  shehas  ev-  idently  concluded  that  even  in  the  term  he  will  not  get  by  without  being  given  a  hand.  He  sighs.  &quot;From  your  point  of  view,  from  a  professional  point  of  view,  Mrs.  Putts,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;what  steps  would  you  suggest?&quot;  &quot;You  will  need  to  engage  a  caregiver,  that's  for  sure,&quot;  Mrs.  Putts  says.  &quot;Prefera-  bly  a  private  nurse,  someone  with  experi-  ence  of  frail  care.  Until  you  are  mobile  again  we  would  not  want  to  take  chances,  would  we?&quot;  &quot;No,  we  would  not,&quot;  he  says.  he  day  nurse  recommended  by  Mrs.  Putts  is  named  Sheena.  Sheena  looks  nineteen,  but  her  papers  attest  that  she  is  twenty-nine.  She  is  fat,  with  a  hard,  lardy,  confident  fatness,  and  under  all  questioning  unshakably  good-  humored.  He  takes  an  immediate  dis-  like  to  her.  When  the  ambulance  men  bring  him  home,  Sheena  is  ready  and  wait-  ing.  It  is  she  who  reorganizes  his  bed-  room  for  him,  supervises  the  cleaning  woman,  instructs  the  handyman  where  to  install  rails,  and  generally  takes  over.  She  has  already  drafted  a  day-by-day  schedule  for  the  two  of  them,  covering  meals,  exercises,  and  what  she  calls  S.C.-stump  care-which  she  tapes  to  the  wall  above  his  head.  It  includes  three  blocks,  one  in  midmorning,  one  at  noon,  one  in  the  afternoon,  labelled  &quot;S.D.  PRIVATE  TIME,&quot;  time  during  which  she  retires  to  the  kitchen  to  refresh  her-  self.  So  that  she  will  not  perish  of  bore-  dom  she  keeps  the  radio  on  in  the  kitchen,  on  astation  that  alternates  clamoring  advertisements  with  thud-  ding  music.  When  he  asks  her  to  turn  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  T9  the  sound  lower,  she  turns  the  sound  lower;  nevertheless,  without  straining,  he  can  still  hear  it.  The  first  test  of  his  physical  powers  comes  when,  with  Sheena  supporting  his  elbow,  he  attempts  to  use  the  toilet.  The  sitting-down  maneuver  defeats  him:  the  left  leg,  the  leg  left  to  him,  is  as  weak  as  putty.  Sheena  purses  her  lips.  &quot;Back  to  bed  at  once,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I'll  fetch  you  the  potty.&quot;  She  calls  the  bedpan  the  potty;  she  calls  his  penis  his  willy.  Halfway  through  a  sponge  bath,  before  dealing  with  the  stump,  she  pauses  and  puts  on  a  baby  voice.  &quot;Now,  if  he  wants  Sheena  to  wash  his  willy  he  must  ask  very  nicely,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Otherwise,  he  will  think  Sheena  is  one  of  those  naughty  girls.  Those  naughty,  naughty  girls.&quot;  And  she  gives  him  a  playful  slap  on  the  arm  to  show  that  itis  just  a  joke.  He  puts  up  with  Sheena  until  the  end  of  the  week,  then  telephones  Mrs.  Putts.  &quot;I  am  going  to  ask  Sheena  not  to  come  back,&quot;  he  says.&quot;I  cannot  abide  her.  You  will  have  to  find  me  someone  else.&quot;  Getting  rid  of  Sheena  turns  out  to  be  bynomeans  as  simple  asthat.  By  the  time  her  professional  pride  has  been  mollified  he  has  had  to  fork  out  two  months'  wages.  He  wonders  how  often  in  her  nursing  career  shehas  brought  off  coups  on  a  similar  scale.  After  Sheena,  he  is  tended  by  asuc-  cession  of  nurses  from  the  agency,  nurses  who  call  themselves  temps  and  come  for  a  day  or  two  at  a  time.  &quot;Can't  you  find  me  someone  regular?&quot;  he  asks  Mrs.  Putts  on  the  phone.  &quot;I  am  stretched  to  the  limit,&quot;  Mrs.  Putts  says.  &quot;There'sa  huge  demand  for  frail-care  nursing.  Be  patient,  you  are  on  my  A-list.&quot;  From  being  irascible  he  becomes  sullen.  He  wants  to  be  left  alone;  he  does  not  want  to  speak  to  anyone;  he  suffers  fits  of  what  he  thinks  of  as  dry  weeping.  If  only  real  tears  would  come!  he  thinks.  If  only  I  could  be  washed  away  in  tears!  He  welcomes  those  days  when,  for  one  reason  or  another,  no  one  arrives  to  take  care  ofhim,  even  if  it  means  that  he  has  to  get  byon  biscuits  and  orange  juice.  He  blames  his  gloom  on  the  pain-  killers.  Which  is  worse-the  cloud  of gloom  in  the  head  or  the  ache  in  the  bone  that  keeps  him  awake  all  night?  He  tries  doing  without  the  pills  and  ig-  noring  the  pain.  But  the  gloom  does  not  lift.  It  seems  to  have  settled  in,  to  be  part  of  the  climate.  In  theold  days,  thedays  before  the  accident,  he  did  not  have  what  he  would  call  a  gloomy  temperament.  He  might  have  been  solitary,  but  only  as  certain  male  animals  are  solitary.  There  was  al-  ways  more  than  enough  to  keep  him  oc-  cupied.  He  took  out  books  from  the  Ii-  brary,  he  went  to  the  cinema;  he  cooked  forhimself,  he  even  baked  his  own  bread;  he  did  not  own  a  car  but  rode  a  bicycle  or  walked.  If  such  a  way  of  life  made  him  eccentric,  it  was  eccentricity  within  the  mildest  4175737472616c6961n  limits.  He  was  tall  and  rangy;  he  had  preserved  a  certain  wiry  strength;  he  was  the  kind  of  man  who  might  last  into  his  nineties,  eccen-  tricities  and  all.  Well,  he  may  still  live  to  be  ninety,  but  if  that  happens  it  will  not  be  by  choice.  He  has  lost  the  freedom  of  movement,  and  it  would  be  foolish  to  think  it  will  ever  be  restored  to  him.  The  universe  has  contracted  to  this  flat  and  the  block  or  two  around,  and  it  will  not  expand  again.  A  circumscribed  life.  What  would  Socrates  say  about  that?  Can  a  life  be-  come  so  circumscribed  that  it  is  no  -Eliza  Griswold  longer  worth  living?  Men  come  out  of  prison,  after  years  of  staring  at  the  same  blank  wall,  without  gloom  taking  pos-  session  of  their  souls.  What  is  so  special  about  losing  a  limb?  A  giraffe  that  loses  a  leg  will  surely  perish,  but  giraffes  do  not  have  the  agencies  of  the  modern  state,  embodied  in  Mrs.  Putts,  watching  over  their  welfare.  Why  should  he  not  settle  for  a  modestly  circumscribed  life  in  a  city  that  is  not  inhospitable  to  the  frail?  He  cannot  give  answers  to  questions  like  these.  He  cannot  give  answers  be-  cause  he  is  not  in  the  mood  for  answers.  That  is  what  it  means  to  be  gloomy:  at  a  levelfar  below  the  play  and  flicker  of  the  intellect  (Why  not  this?  Why  not  that?)  he,  Ze,  the  Ze  he  sometimes  calls  you,  sometimes  J,  is  all  too  ready  to  embrace  darkness,  stillness,  extinction.  Has  he  given  up?  Does  he  want  to  die?  Is  that  what  it  comes  down  to?  No.  The  question  is  false.  He  does  not  want  to  slash  his  wrists,  does  not  want  to  swal-  low  down  four  and  twenty  Somnex,  does  not  want  to  hurl  himself  off  the  balcony.  He  does  not  want  death,  because  he  does  not  want  anything.  Unstrung:  that  is  the  word  that  comes  back  to  him  from  Homer.  The  spear  shatters  the  breastbone,  blood  spurts,  the  limbs  are  unstrung,  the  body  topples  like  a  wooden  puppet.  Well,  his  limbs  have  been  unstrung  and  now  his  spirit  is  unstrung,  too.  His  spirit  is  ready  to  topple.  Mrs.  Putts's  second  full  candidate  is  named  Marijana.  By  origin  she  is  Croatian,  so  she  informs  him  during  their  interview.  She  left  the  land  of  her  birth  behind  twelve  years  ago.  Her  train-  ing  was  done  in  [REDACTED],  in  Bielefeld;  since  coming  to  [REDACTED]  shehas  ac-  quired  [REDACTED]  4175737472616c6961n  certification.  Her  husband  works  in  a  car-assembly  plant;  they  live  in  Munno  Para,  north  of  Elizabeth,  a  half-hour  drive  from  the  city.  They  have  a  son  in  high  school,  a  daughter  in  middle  school,  a  third  child  not  yet  of  school  age.  Marijana  Joki¢  is  a  sallow-faced  woman  who,  if  not  quite  middle-aged,  exhibits  a  thickening  about  the  waist  that  is  quite  matronly.  She  wears  a  sky-  blue  uniform  that  he  finds  a  relief  after  all  the  whiteness,  with  patches  of  damp-  ness  under  the  arms;  she  speaks  a  rapid,  approximate  4175737472616c6961n  English  with  Slavic  liquids  and  an  uncertain  com-  mand  of  &quot;a&quot;  and  &quot;the,&quot;  colored  by  slang  that  she  must  pick  up  from  her  chil-  dren,  who  pick  it  up  from  their  class-  mates.  It  is  a  variety  of  the  language  he  is  not  familiar  with;  he  rather  likes  it.  After  the  misadventure  of  Sheena,  he  has  no  great  hopes  for  the  lady  from  the  Balkans.  In  the  days  that  follow,  however,  he  finds  himself  grudgingly  thankful  for  her  advent.  Mrs.  Jokié-  Marijana-seems  ableto  intuit  what  he  is  and  is  not  ready  for.  She  treats  him  not  as  a  doddering  old  fool  but  as  a  man  hampered  in  his  movements  by  injury.  Patiently,  without  baby  talk,  she  helps  him  through  his  ablutions.  When  he  tells  her  that  he  wants  to  be  left  alone,  she  absents  herself.  He  reclines;  she  unwraps  the  thing,  the  stump,  and  runs  a  finger  along  its  naked  face.  &quot;Nice  sutures,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Who  put  in  sutures?&quot;  &quot;Dr.  Hansen.&quot;  &quot;Hansen.  Don't  know  Hansen.  But  is  good.  Good  surgeon.&quot;  She  hefts  the  stump  judiciously  in  one  hand,  as  if  it  were  a  watermelon.  &quot;Good  job.&quot;  She  soaps  it,  washes  it.  The  warm  water  brings  out  a  pink-and-white  flush.  It  begins  to  look  less  like  a  cured  ham  than  like  some  sightless  deepwater  fish;  he  averts  his  eyes.  &quot;Do  you  see  many  bad  jobs?&quot;  he  asks.  She  puckers  her  lips,  draws  her  hands  apart  in  agesture  that  reminds  him  of  his  mother.  Maybe,  the  gesture  says;  it  depends.  To  himself  he  does  not  call  it  a  stump.  He  would  like  not  to  call  it  anything;  he  would  like  not  to  think  about  it,  but  that  is  not  possible.  If  he  hasa  name  for  it,  it  is  Ze  jambon.  Le  jambon  keeps  it  at  a  nice,  contemptuous  distance.  He  divides  the  people  with  whom  he  has  contact  into  two  classes:  those  few  who  have  seen  it  and  the  rest,  those  who,  thankfully,  never  will.  It  strikes  him  as  a  pity  that  Marijana  should  fall  so  early  and  so  decisively  into  the  first  class.  Rarelyhas  he  seen  anyone  throw  herself  as  fully  into  her  duties  as  Mari-  jana  does.  The  list  with  which  she  goes  off  to  the  shops  comes  back  with  the  till  receipts  clipped  to  it,  each  item  ticked  off  or,  where  she  has  had  to  vary  it,  an-  notated  in  her  neat  Old  World  hand  with  its  barbed  1s  and  crossed  7s  and  looped  9s.  From  the  tempests  of  her  cooking  emerge  meals  that  are  unfail-  ingly  appetizing.  To  friends  who  telephone  to  ask  how  he  is  getting  on,  he  refers  to  Marijana  simply  as  &quot;the  day  nurse.&quot;  &quot;I  have  hired  a  very  competentday  nurse,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;She  does  the  shopping  and  the  cooking,  too.&quot;  He  does  not  refer  to  her  as  Marijana,  in  case  it  sounds  too  familiar;  in  conversa-  tion  with  her,  he  continues  to  call  her  Mrs.  Joki¢,  as  she  calls  him  Mr.  Ray-  ment.  But  to  himself  he  has  no  reserva-  tion  about  calling  her  Marijana.  He  likes  the  name,  with  its  four  full,  uncompro-  mising  syllables.  Marijana  will  be  here  in  the  morning,  he  tells  himself  when  he  feels  the  cloud  of  gloom  descending  again.  Pull  yourself  together!  Whether  he  likes  Marijana  the  woman  as  much  as  he  likes  her  name  he  does  not  yet  know.  Objectively,  she  is  not  unattractive.  But  in  his  company  she  seems  to  have  the  ability  to  annul  sex.  She  is  brisk,  she  is  efficient,  she  is  cheer-  ful:  that  is  the  face  she  presentsto  him,  her  employer;  that  is  the  face  he  pays  for     and  must  be  content  with.  So  he  gives  up  being  irascible  and  takes  pains  to  meet  her  with  a  smile.  He  would  like  her  to  think  that  he  bears  his  mishap  gamely;  he  would  like  her  to  think  well  of  him  in  all  respects.  If  she  does  not  flirt,  he  does  not  mind.  It  is  better  than  coy  talk  about  his  willy.  Some  mornings  she  brings  her  youn-  gest  child  with  her,  the  one  who  is  not  yet  at  school.  The  child's  name  is  Ljuba,  Ljubica.  He  likes  the  name,  approves  of  it.  In  Russian,  if  he  is  not  mistaken,  lyubov  means  &quot;love.&quot;  It  is  like  calling  a  girl  Aimée  or,  even  better,  Amour.  Her  son  and  firstborn  has,  she  in-  forms  him,  just  turned  sixteen.  Sixteen:  she  must  have  married  young.  He  is  in  the  process  of  revising  his  estimate  of  her.  More  than  not  unattractive,  she  is  on  occasion  a  positively  handsome  woman,  well  built,  sturdy,  with  nut-brown  hair,  dark  eyes,  a  complexion  olive  rather  than  sallow;  a  woman  who  carries  herself  well,  shoulders  squared,  breasts  thrust  for-  ward.  Prideful,  he  thinks,  hunting  for  an  English  word  that  will  capture  her.  Her  teeth,  stained  yellow  with  nicotine,  are  the  only  objective  flaw.  She  smokes  in  an  unreconstructed  old-European  way,  though  for  his  sake  she  retires  to  the  balcony.  As  for  the  little  girl,  she  is  a  true  beauty,  with  dark  curls  and  perfect  skin  and  eyes  that  glint  with  what  can  only  be  intelligence.  Side  by  side,  the  two  make  a  pretty  picture.  Get  on  well  together,  too.  While  she  is  cooking,  Marijana  helps  the  child  to  bake  cupcakes  or  gingerbread  biscuits.  From  the  kitchen  comes  the  even  murmur  of  their  voices:  the  protocols  of  womanhood  being  passed  on,  generation  to  generation.  Weeks  pass;  he  settles  into  Ma-  rijana's  regimen  of  care.  Each  morning  she  takes  him  through  his  exer-  cises,  massages  his  wasted  and  wasting  muscles;  discreetly,  she  helps  him  in  what  he  cannot  do  without  a  helping  hand,  what  he  may  never  learn  to  do  unaided.  When  he  is  in  the  mood  to  listen,  she  is  ready  to  tall-about  her  work,  her  expe-  rience  of  [REDACTED].  When  he  withdraws,  she  seems  content  to  be  silent,  too.  Whatever  love  he  might  oncehave  had  forhis  body  is  long  gone.  He  has  no  interest  infixing  it  up,  returning  it  to  some  ideal  efficiency.  He  still  has  a  sense  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  Bl  of  being  a  soul  with  an  undiminished  soul  life,  but,  as  for  the  rest  of  him,  itis  just  asack  ofblood  and  bones  that  he  is  forced  to  carry  around.  In  such  a  state,  it  is  tempting  to  let  go  of  all  modesty.  But  he  resists  the  temp-  tation.  He  does  what  he  can  to  maintain  the  decencies,  and  Marijana  backs  him.  When  nakedness  cannotbe  helped,  he  avertshis  eyes  so  that  she  will  see  that  he  does  not  see  her  seeing  him.  What  has  to  be  done  in  private  she  does  her  best  to  insure  is  done  in  private.  Where  did  she  acquire  this  delicacy,  he  wonders,  a  delicacy  that  her  pre-  decessor  so  signally  lacked?  A  decent  woman,  he  thinks  to  himself,  decent  through  and  through.  One  of  the  better  things  that  have  happened  to  him,  hav-  ing  Marijana  Jokic  come  into  his  life.  &quot;Tell  me  if  it  hurts,&quot;  she  saysas  she  bears  down  with  her  thumbs  on  the  ob-  scenely  curtailed  thigh  muscles.  But  it  never  hurts;  or,  if  it  does,  the  hurt  is  so  much  like  pleasure  that  he  cannot  tell  the  difference.  An  intuitive,  he  thinks.  By  intuition,  pure  and  simple,  she  seems  to  know  how  he  feels,  how  his  body  will  respond.  A  man  and  a  woman  on  a  warm  afternoon  behind  locked  doors.  They  might  as  well  be  performing  a  sex  act.  But  itis  nothing  like  that.It  is  just  nurs-  ing,  just  care.  e  came  away  from  the  hospital  with  a  pair  of  forearm  crutches  and  something  they  called  a  Zimmer  frame,  a  four-footed  aluminum  stand  for  use  around  the  flat.  Under  Marijana's  ministrations,  what  she  likes  to  call  his  leg  is  day  by  day  los-  ing  its  angry  color  and  swollen  look.  The  crutches  are  becoming  second  nature,  though  he  feels  more  secure  leaning  on  the  frame.  When  he  is  by  himself  he  roams  on  his  crutches  from  room  to  room,  thinking  of  it  asexercise  when  it  is  really  only  restlessness.  Margaret  McCord  telephones.  She  is  sorry  she  has  not  been  in  touch;  she  has  been  out  of  town.  Can  she  take  him  to  lunch,  perhaps  on  Sunday?  They  could  drive  out  to  the  Barossa  [REDACTED].  Unfortu-  nately,  her  husband  will  not  be  able  to  join  them:  he  is  overseas.  He  would  loveto  come,  he  replies,  but,  alas,  he  finds  long  car  rides  a  bit  of  a  calvary.  82  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  &quot;Then  shall  I  just  drop  by?&quot;  she  says.  Years  ago,  after  his  divorce,  he  and  Margaret  had  a  brief  fling.  According  to  Margaret,  whom  he  does  not  necessarily  trust,  her  husband  knows  nothing  of  those  intimacies.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Come  on  Sun-  day.  Come  to  dinner.  I  have  some  excel-  lent  cannelloni  that  my  house  help  has  prepared.&quot;  They  eat  on  the  balcony,  on  a  rather  cool  evening,  amid  the  valedictory  calls  of  birds,  with  citronella  candles  flicker-  ing  on  the  table.  There  is  a  certain  con-  straint:  what  once  passed  between  them  is  by  no  means  forgotten.  He  tells  Margaret  about  his  time  under  the  rule  of  Sheena;  he  tells  her  about  Mrs.  Putts  the  social  worker,  who  prepared  him  for  the  afterlife  in  all  re-  spects  save  sex,  atopic  that  she  per-  haps  thought  inappropriate  to  a  man  of  his  age.  &quot;And  is  it  inappropriate?&quot;  Margaret  asks.  &quot;Candidly?&quot;  Candidly,  he  replies,  he  cannot  yet  tell.  He  is  not  incapacitated,  if  that  is  what  she  is  asking.  His  spine  is  un-  harmed,  as  are  the  relevant  nerve  con-  nections.  The  as  yet  unanswered  ques-  tion  is  whether  he  would  be  able  to  perform  the  motions  required  of  the  ac-  tive  member  in  a  sexual  couple.  A  sec-  ond  and  related  question  is  whether  em-  barrassment  and  shame  might  not  out-  weigh  pleasure.  &quot;I  would  have  thought,&quot;  Margaret  says,  &quot;that  given  the  circumstances  you  might  be  excused  from  playing  the  role  of  active  member.  And  why  should  you  be  embarrassed?  It's  not  as  though  you  have  leprosy.  You  arejust  an  amputee.  Amputees  can  be  rather  romantic.  Think  of  all  those  war  films:  men  com-  ing  home  from  the  front  with  eye  patches  or  empty  sleeves  pinned  across  their  chests  or  on  crutches.  Women  swooned  over  them.&quot;  &quot;Just  an  amputee,&quot;  he  says.  Yes.  You  were  the  victim  ofan  acci-  dent,a  crash.  After  which  you  had  a  leg  amputated.  Part  of  a  leg.  Part  of  a  stu-  pid  body  part.  That's  all.  You  still  have  your  health.  You  are  still  yourself.  You  are  the  same  handsome,  healthy  man  you  always  were.&quot;  She  gives  him  a  smile.  They  could  test  it  out  in  the  bed-  room  right  now,  the  two  of  them,  test  whether  he  is  the  same  man  he  always  was,  test  whether,  even  with  a  body  part  missing,  pleasure  can  outweigh  its  op-  posite.  Margaret  would  not  be  averse,  he  is  sure  of  that.  But  the  moment  passes  and  they  do  not  grasp  it,  for  which,  looking  back  later,  he  is  thank-  ful.  He  does  not  care  to  become  the  object  of  any  woman's  sexual  charity,  however  good-natured.  Nor  does  he  care  to  expose  to  the  gaze  ofan  out-  sider,  even  if  she  is  a  friend  from  the  old  days,  even  if  she  does  claim  to  find  am-  putees  romantic,  this  unlovely  new  body  of  his.  If  he  ever  goes  to  bed  with  a  woman  again,  he  will  make  sure  itis  in  the  dark.  &quot;J  have  had  a  visitor,&quot;  he  tells  Marijana  the  next  day.  Yes?&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;There  may  be  other  visitors,&quot;  he  plunges  on  grimly.  &quot;I  mean  women.&quot;  &quot;'To  live  with  you?&quot;  Marijana  says.  To  live  with  him?  The  thought  has  never  crossed  his  mind.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Just  friends,  women  friends.&quot;  &quot;That's  good,&quot;  she  says,  and  switches  on  the  vacuum  cleaner.  Marijana,  it  would  appear,  could  not  care  less  whetherhe  has  women  in  the  flat.  What  he  gets  up  to  in  his  own  time  is  none  of  her  business.  And  what  could  he  get  up  to,  anyway?  Unlike  Margaret,  Marijana  hasnever  seen  him  as  he  used  to  be.  To  her  he  is  simplyher  latest  client,  a  pale-skinned,  slack-thewed  old  man  on  crutches.  On  the  job  Marijana  wears  not  a  nurse's  cap  but  a  head  scarf,  like  any  good  Balkan  housewife.  He  approves  of  the  scarf,  as  he  approves  of  any  token  that  she  has  not  wholly  cast  off  the  Old  World  in  favor  of  the  new.  Aside  from  assorted  war  criminals  and  the  tall  tennis  player  with  the  big  serve  whose  name  escapes  him  (Ilja?  Ilic?  Roman  Ilic?),  Croats  are  an  un-  known  quantity  to  him.  He  must  have  crossed  paths  with  dozens  of  Yugoslavs  in  the  days  when  there  were  still  Yu-  goslavs,  but  of  course  it  never  occurred  to  him  to  ask  what  variety  of  Yugoslav  they  were.  Where  does  Marijana  fit  into  the  Yugoslay  picture,  Marijana  and  the  hus-  band  who  assembles  cars?  What  were  they  fleeing  when  they  left  the  Old  Country?  Or  was  it  simply  the  case  that,  growing  sick  and  tired  of  strife,  they  packed  their  goods  and  crossed  the  border  in  quest  of  a  better,  more  peace-  able  life?  Marijana  is  telling  him  about  her  son,  whose  name  is  Drago.  For  his  sixteenth  birthday,  her  husband  bought  Drago  a  motorcycle.  A  big  mistake,  in  Marijana's  opinion.  Now  Drago  stays  out  every  eve-  ning,  neglecting  his  homework,  missing  meals.  He  and  his  friends  hang  out  on  the  back  roads,  racing  each  other,  prac-  ticing  skids  and  God  knows  what  else.  She  is  afraid  he  is  going  to  break  alimb,  or  worse.  &quot;Your  son  is  a  young  man,&quot;  he  tells  Marijana.  &quot;He  is  testing  himself.  You  cannot  stop  young  men  from  exploring  their  limits.  They  want  to  be  the  fastest.  They  want  to  be  the  strongest.  They  want  to  be  admired.&quot;  He  has  never  met  Drago,  probably  never  will.  But  he  enjoys  Marijana's  per-  formance,  enjoys  its  transparency:  too  well  mannered  to  boast  about  her  boy,  she  complains  instead  about  his  unruli-  ness,  his  recklessness,  his  joie  de  vivre,  about  how  he  will  be  her  ruin.  &quot;If  you  want  to  give  Drago  a  fright,&quot;  he  suggests,  not  entirely  seriously,  &quot;bring  him  here  one  day.  I'll  show  him  my  leg.&quot;  &quot;You  think  he  will  listen,  Mr.  Ray-  ment?  He  will  say  is  nothing,  is  justbi-  cycle  accident.&quot;  &quot;T'll  show  him  what's  left  of  the  bicy-  cle,  too.&quot;  He  still  has  the  bicycle  in  the  store-  room  downstairs,  the  back  wheel  folded  in  two,  the  stays  jammed  into  the  spokes.  No  one  bothered  to  steal  it,  after  all,  that  day  on  Magill  Road,  though  it  lay  by  the  roadside  till  evening.  Then  the  police  took  it  in.  They  rescued  the  plas-  tic  box  that  had  been  strapped  to  the  carrier,  too,  along  with  a  fraction  of  the  morning's  purchases:  a  can  of  chickpeas  with  a  dent  in  it,  a  quarter  kilo  of  Brie  that  had  melted  in  the  sun  and  then  congealed.  He  has  kept  the  can  as  a  me-  mento,  a  memento  mori.  It  is  on  a  shelf  €  in  the  kitchen.  He  will  show  Drago  the  €  can,  he  tells  Marijana.  Imagine  if  that  8  was  your  skull,  he  will  say  to  him.  And  &amp;  then:  Spare  a  thought  for  your  mum.  3  She  worries  about  you.  She  wishes  you  E  to  have  a  long  and  happy  life.  The  next  day  Marijana  brings  a  pho-  tograph:  Drago  standing  beside  the  mo-  torcycle  in  question,  wearing  boots  and  MICHAEL  KUPI  tight  jeans,in  the  crook  of  his  arm  a  hel-  met  emblazoned  with  a  lightning  bolt.  He  is  tall  and  husky  for  a  sixteen-year-  old,  with  a  winning  smile.  A  dreamboat,  as  girls  used  to  sayin  theold  days.  No  doubt  he  will  break  many  hearts.  &quot;What  are  your  son's  plans?&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;He  wants  to  go  to  Defense  Force  Academy.  He  wants  to  join  Navy.  He  can  get  bursary  for  that.&quot;  Now  she  has  a  question  for  him,  one  that  has  been  surprisingly  long  in  coming.  &quot;You  have  no  children,  Mr.  Rayment?&quot;  &quot;No,  alas  not.  We  did  not  get  around  to  it,  my  wife  and  I.  We  had  other  things  on  our  minds.  And  then,  before  we  knew  it,  we  were  divorced.&quot;  &quot;And  you  never  worry  about  it  after?&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary,  I  worried  about  it  more  and  more,  particularly  asI  grew  older.&quot;  &quot;And  your  wife?  She  worry  about  it?&quot;  &quot;My  wife  remarried.  She  married  a  divorcé  with  children  of  his  own.  They  had  a  child  together  and  became  one  of  those  complicated  modern  families  where  everyone  calls  everyone  else  by  the  first  name.  So,no,  my  wife  does  not  worry  about  our  childlessness,  my  child-  lessness.  My  ex-wife.  I  do  not  have  much  contact  with  her.&quot;  It  is  all  within  bounds,  what  is  passing  between  them,  within  the  bounds  of  the  impersonal  personal.  A  conversation  be-  tween  a  man  and  a  woman,  a  woman  who  happens  to  be  the  man's  nurse,  get-  ting  to  know  each  other  better  ina  coun-  try  where  all  persons  are  equal,  and  all  faiths.  Marijana  is  a  Catholic.  He  is  no  longer  anything.  But  in  this  country  one  is  as  good  as  the  other,  Catholicism  and  nothing.  Marijana  may  disapprove  of  people  who  marryand  unmarry  and  never  get  around  to  having  children,  but  she  knows  enough  to  keep  her  disap-  proval  to  herself.  &quot;So  who  is  going  to  take  care  of  you?&quot;  An  odd  question  to  ask.  The  obvious  answer  is,  You  are:  you  are  going  to  take  care  of  me,  for  the  immediate  future,  you  or  whoever  elseI  employ  for  that  purpose.  But,  presumably,  there  is  a  more  charitable  way  of  interpreting  the  ques-  tion.  Who  is  going  to  be  your  stay  and  support?,  for  instance.  &quot;Oh,  I'll  take  care  of  myself,&quot;  he  replies.  &quot;I  do  not  expect  a  lengthy  old  age.”  They  leave  it  at  that,  he  and  Mari- jana,  their  exchange  of  particulars.  But  her  question  echoes  in  his  mind.  Who  is  going  to  take  care  ofyou?  The  more  he  stares  at  the  words  &quot;take  care  of,&quot;  the  more  inscrutable  they  seem.  He  remem-  bers  a  dog  they  had  when  he  was  a  child  in  Lourdes,  lying  in  its  basket  in  the  last  stages  of  canine  distemper,  whimpering  without  cease,  its  muzzle  hot  and  dry,  its  Timbs  jerking.  &quot;Bom,  ye  men  occupe,&quot;  his  fa-  ther  said  at  a  certain  point,  and  picked  the  dog  up,  basket  and  all,  and  walked  out  of  the  house.  Five  minutes  later,  from  the  woods,  he  heard  the  flat  report  of  a  shotgun,  and  that  was  that;  he  never  saw  the  dog  again.  Je  mem  occupe:  T'll  take  charge  of  it;  I'll  take  care  of  it;  I'll  do  what  has  to  be  done.  That  kind  of  car-  ing,  with  ashotgun,  was  certainly  not  what  Marijana  had  in  mind.  He  has  many  regrets.  He  is  full  of  re-  grets.  They  come  back  nightly  like  roosting  birds.  Chief  among  them  is  re-  gret  that  he  does  not  have  a  son.  It  would  be  nice  to  have  a  daughter-girls  have  an  appeal  of  their  own-but  the  son  he  does  nothave  is  the  onehe  truly  misses.  If  he  and  Henriette  hadhad  a  son  right  away,  while  they  still  loved  each  other,  or  were  enamored  of  each  other,  or  cared  for  each  other,  that  son  would  be  thirty  years  old  by  now,  a  man  in  his  own  right.  Unimaginable,  perhaps,  but  the  un-  imaginable  is  there  to  be  imagined.  It  is  not  beyond  the  bounds  of  the  possible  to  acquire  a  son,  even  at  this  late  juncture.  He  could,  for  instance,  locate  (but  how?)  some  wayward  orphan  and  put  in  an  offer  to  adopt  him  and  hope  to  be  accepted;  though  the  chances  that  the  welfare  system,  as  represented  by  Mrs.  Putts,  would  ever  consign  a  child  to  the  care  of  a  maimed  and  solitary  old  man  are  zero,  less  than  zero.  Or  he  could  locate  (but  how?)  some  fertile  young  woman  and  marry  her  or  pay  her  or  oth-  erwise  induceher  to  permit  him  to  en-  gender,  or  try  to  engender,  a  male  child  in  her  womb.  But  itis  not  a  baby  he  wants.  What  he  wants  is  a  son,  a  proper  son,  a  son  and  heir-a  younger,  stronger,  better  version  of  himself.  His  willy.  If  you  want  me  to  wash  your  willy,  Sheena  said  in  her  private  time  with  him,  you  will  have  to  ask.  Does  he  have  it  in  his  willy,  in  his  exhausted  loins,  to  father  a  child?  Does  he  have  the  seed,  and  enough  animal  passion  to  drive  that  seed  to  the  right  place?  The  record  would  not  seem  to  indicate  so.  The  record  wouldseem  to  indicate  that  pas-  sionate  outpourings  are  not  part  of  his  nature.  A  pleasant  affectionateness,  a  mild,  if  gratifying,  sensuality-that  is  what  Margaret  McCord  will  recall  about  him,  she  and  half  a  dozen  other  women,  not  including  his  wife.  As  a  lover  rather  doggy,  in  fact:  not  a  word  he  is  fondof  but  an  apt  one.  A  nice  man  to  cuddle  up  to  on  a  chilly  evening;  the  kind  of  male  friend  you  rather  absent-mindedly  go  to  bed  with,  then  wonder  later  whether  it  really  happened.  All  in  all,  not  a  man  of  passion.  He  is  not  sure  that  he  has  ever  liked  passion,  or  approved  of  it.  Passion:  foreign  territory;  a  comical  but  unavoidable  affliction,  like  mumps,  that  one  hopes  to  undergo  while  still  young,  in  one  of  its  milder,  less  ruinous  varieties,  so  as  not  to  catch  it  more  seriously  later  on.  Dogs  in  the  grip  of  passion  coupling,  hapless  grins  on  their  faces,  their  tongues  hanging  out.  “You  want  I  dust  your  books?&quot;  Eleven  in  the  morning,  and  Marijana  wouldseem  to  have  run  out  of  tasks.  &quot;All  right,  if  you  like.  You  can  run  the  vacuum  cleaner  over  them  with  that  nozzle  attachment.&quot;  She  shakes  her  head.  &quot;No,  I  clean  them  good.  You  are  book  saver,  don't  want  dust  on  books.  You  are  book  saver,  yes?&quot;  &quot;A  book  collector,  that's  what  we  say  here.  Just  those  three  shelves,  from  there  to  there,  are  a  collection,  properly  speak-  ing.  Those  are  my  books  on  photogra-  phy.  The  rest  are  just  common  or  garden  books.  No,  if  I  have  saved  anything  it  has  been  photographs,  not  books.  I  keep  them  in  those  cabinets.  Would  you  like  to  see?&quot;  In  two  old-fashioned  cedarwood  cab-  inets  he  has  hundreds  of  photographs  and  postcards  of  life  in  the  early  mining  camps  of  Victoria  and  New  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  There  is  a  handful  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  too.  Since  the  field  is  not  a  popular  or  even  a  properly  defined  one,  his  collec-  tion  may  be  the  best  in  the  country,  per-  haps  in  the  world.  For  her  eyes  he  takes  out  the  group  photographs  that  are  the  core  of  his  col-  lection.  For  thephotographer's  visit,  some  of  the  miners  have  put  on  their  Sun-  day  best.  Others  are  content  with  aclean  shirt,  the  sleeves  rolled  high  to  show  off  their  brawny  arms,  and  perhaps  a  clean  neckerchief.  They  confront  the  camera  with  the  look  of  grave  confidence  that  came  naturally  to  men  in  Victoria's  day  but  seems  now  to  have  vanished  from  the  face  of  the  earth.  &quot;So  this  is  what  you  do,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;Is  good,  is  good.  Is  good  you  save  history.  So  people  don't  think  [REDACTED]  is  country  without  history,  just  bush  and  then  mob  of  immigrants.  Like  me.  Like  us.&quot;  She  has  taken  off  the  head  scarf:  she  shakes  her  hair  free,  smoothes  it  back,  gives  him  a  smile.  Like  us.  Who  are  these  s?  Marijana  and  the  Joki¢  family,  or  Marijana  and  he?  &quot;It  was  not  just  bush,Marijana,&quot;  he  says  cautiously.  &quot;No,of  course  is  not  bush,  is  Aborig-  inal  people.  But  I  talk  about  Europe,  what  they  say  in  Europe.  Bush,  then  Captain  Cool,  then  immigrants-where  is  history,  they  say?&quot;  &quot;You  mean,  where  are  the  castles  and  cathedrals?  Don'timmigrants  have  a  his-  tory  of  their  own?  Do  you  cease  to  have  a  history  when  you  move  from  one  point  on  the  globe  to  another?&quot;  She  brushes  aside  the  rebuke,  if  that  is  what  it  is.  &quot;In  Europe  people  say  Aus-  tralia  have  no  history  because  in  Aus-  tralia  everybody  is  new.  Don't  mind  if  you  come  with  this  history  or  that  his-  tory,  in  [REDACTED]  you  start  zero.  Zero  history,  you  understand?  So  is  good  somebody  save  old  photographs,  show  [REDACTED]  has  history,  too.  But  they  worth  lots  of  money,  these  photo-  graphs,  eh?&quot;  Yes,  they  are  worth  money.&quot;  &quot;So  who  gets  them,  you  know,  after  you?&quot;  &quot;After  my  decease,  doyou  mean?  They  are  going  to  the  State  Library.  It  is  all  arranged.  The  State  Library  here  in  Adelaide.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  sell  them?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  won't  sell  them.  It  will  be  a  bequest.&quot;  &quot;But  they  put  your  name  on,  eh?&quot;  &quot;They  will  put  my  name  on  the  col-  lection  indeed.  The  Rayment  Bequest.  So  thatin  future  days  children  will  whis-  per  to  each  other,  'Who  was  he,  Ray-  ment  of  the  Rayment  Bequest?  Was  he  someone  famous&quot;  &quot;  &quot;But  photograph,  too,  maybe,  eh,  not  just  name?  Photograph  of  Mr.  Ray-  ment.  Photograph  is  not  the  same  as  just  name,  is  more  living.  Otherwise,  why  save  photographs?&quot;  No  doubt  about  it,  shehas  a  point.  &quot;T'll  ask  the  people  at  the  library,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'll  see  how  they  feel  about  the  idea.  But  not  a  picture  of  me  as  I  am  now,  God  spare  us  that.  As  I  used  tobe.&quot;  The  dusting  of  the  books,  a  chore  that  cleaning  women  in  the  past  disposed  of  by  running  a  feather  duster  over  the  spines,  is  attacked  by  Marijana  as  a  major  operation.  Desk  and  cabinets  are  covered  with  newspaper;  then,  half  a  shelf  at  a  time,  the  books  are  carried  out  to  the  bal-  cony  and  individually  dusted,  and  the  emptied  shelves  wiped  immaculately  clean.  Where  does  the  woman  getthe  energy?  It  is  on  the  day  of  the  book-dusting  that  what  had  been  a  mild  interest  in  Marijana,  an  interest  that  had  not  amounted  to  more  than  curiosity,  turns  into  something  else.  In  her  he  begins  to  see  if  not  beauty,  then  at  least  the  perfec-  tion  of  a  certain  feminine  type.  Strong  as  a  horse,  he  thinks,  eying  the  sturdy  calves  and  well-knit  haunches  that  ripple  as  she  reaches  for  the  upper  shelves.  Strong  as  a  mare.  Has  whatever  it  is  that  had  been  floating  in  the  air  these  past  weeks  begun  to  settle,  faute  de  mieux,  on  Marijana?  And  what  is  its  name,  this  sediment,  this  sentiment?  It  does  not  feellike  de-  sire.  If  he  had  to  pick  a  word  for  it,  he  would  say  it  was  admiration.  Can  desire  grow  out  of  admiration,  or  are  the  two  quite  distinct  species?  What  would  it  be  like  to  lie  side  by  side,  naked,  breast  to  breast,  with  a  woman  one  principally  admires?  Not  just  a  woman,  a  married  woman,  too-he  must  not  forget  that.  Not  far  away  there  lives  and  breathes  a  Mr.  Marijana  Joki¢.  Would  Mr.  Joki¢  or  Pan  Joki¢  or  Gospodin  Joki¢or  whatever  he  calls  himself  fly  into  a  rage  if  he  found  out  that  his  wife's  employer  in-  dulged  in  daytime  reveries  about  lying  breast  to  breast  with  her-fly  into  one  of  those  elemental  Balkan  rages  that  give  birth  to  clan  feuds  and  epic  poems?  Would  Mr.  Joki¢  come  after  him  with  a  knife?     He  makes  jokes  about  Joki¢  because  he  envies  him.  When  the  chips  are  down,  Joki¢  has  this  admirable  woman  and  he  does  not.  ne  o'clock  and  Marijana  has  not  finished  with  the  books.Ljuba,  usually  a  good  child-if  itisstill  per-  mitted  to  divide  children  into  the  good  and  the  bad-is  beginning  to  whine.  &quot;Leave  the  cleaning.  Finish  it  off  to-  morrow,&quot;  he  tells  Marijana.  &quot;I  am  finished  in  flesh  of  lightning,&quot;  she  replies.  &quot;Maybe  you  give  her  some-  thing  to  eat.&quot;  &quot;Flash.  A  flash  of  lightning.  Flesh  is  what  we  are  made  of,  flesh  and  bone.&quot;  She  does  not  reply.  Sometimes  he  thinks  she  does  not  bother  to  listen  to  him.  He  should  give  Ljuba  something  to  eat,  but  what?  What  do  small  chil-  dren  eat  besides  popcorn  and  cookies  and  toasted  cereal  flakes  encrusted  with  sugar,  none  of  which  he  has  in  his  pantry?  He  tries  stirring  aspoonful  of  plum  jam  into  a  pot  of  yogurt.  Ljuba  accepts  it,  seems  to  like  it.  She  sits  at  the  kitchen  table,  while  he  stands  by  her  leaning  on  Zimmer's  in-  vention.  &quot;Your  mum  is  a  great  help  to  me,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  I  would  do  without  her.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  true  you've  got  a  artificial  leg?&quot;  She  produces  the  long  word  casually,  as  though  she  used  it  every  day.  &quot;No,  it's  the  same  leg  I  always  had,  just  a  bit  shorter.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  got  a  screw  in  your  leg?&quot;  &quot;A  screw?  No,  no  screws.  My  leg  is  all  natural.  It  has  a  bone  inside,  just  like  your  legs  and  your  mommy's  legs.&quot;  &quot;Doesn't  it  got  a  screw,  to  screw  on  your  artificial  leg?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  as  far  as  I  know.  Because  I  have  no  artificial  leg.  Why  do  you  ask?&quot;  &quot;Because.&quot;  And  she  will  say  no  more.  A  screw  in  his  leg.  Perhaps  in  the  past  Marijana  nursed  a  man  with  screws  in  his  leg,  screws  and  bolts  and  pins  and  struts  and  braces,  all  made  of  gold  or  ti-  tanfum-a  man  with  a  reconstructed  leg  of  the  kind  that  was  not  awarded  to  him  because  he  was  too  old  for  it,  not  worth  the  trouble  or  the  expense.  Perhaps  that  is  the  explanation.  As  a  child,  he  remembers,  he  was  told  the  story  of  a  woman  who  ina  moment  of  absent-mindedness  stuck  a  tiny  sew-  ing  needle  into  the  palm  of  her  hand.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  85  Unnoticed,  the  needle  climbed  up  the  woman's  veins  and  in  the  fullness  of  time  pierced  her  heart  and  killed  her.  The  story  was  presented  to  him  as  a  caution  against  treating  needles  carelessly,  but  in  retrospect  it  reads  more  like  a  fairy  tale.  Can  needles  really  enter  the  blood-  stream?  How  could  the  woman  in  the  story  have  been  unaware  of  the  tiny  me-  tallic  weapon  cruising  up  her  arm  toward  her  armpit,  rounding  the  axillary  curve,  and  heading  south  toward  its  helpless,  thudding  prey?  Should  he  be  retelling  the  story  to  Ljuba,  passing  on  its  cryptic  wisdom,  whatever  that  may  be?  &quot;No,&quot;  he  repeats,  &quot;I  have  no  have  screws  in  me.&quot;  But  Ljuba  has  lost  interest.  With  a  smack  of  the  lips,  she  finishes  off  the  yo-  gurt  and  draws  the  sleeve  of  her  jumper  across  her  mouth.  He  reaches  for  a  tissue  and  wipes  her  lips,  which  she  allows  him  to  do.  After  that  he  wipes  her  sleeve  clean,  too.  It  is  the  first  time  he  has  laid  a  finger  on  the  child.  For  a  moment  her  wrist  lies  limp  in  his  hand.  Perfect:  no  other  word  will  do.  They  arrive  from  the  womb  with  everything  new,  everything  in  perfect  order.  Even  in  the  ones  who  arrive  dam-  aged,  with  funny  limbs  or  abrain  that  sends  out  sparks,  each  cell  is  as  fresh,  as  clean,  as  new  as  on  creation  day.  Each  new  birth  a  new  miracle.  argaret  pays  a  second  visit,  this  time  unannounced.  It  is  a  Sun-  day,  and  he  is  alone  in  the  flat.  He  offers  her  tea,  which  she  declines.  She  circles  the  room,  comes  up  behind  him  where  he  sits,  strokes  his  hair.  He  is  as  still  as  a  stone.  &quot;So  is  this  the  end  of  it,  Paul?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;The  end  of  what?&quot;  &quot;You  know  what  I  mean.  Have  you  decided  this  is  the  end  of  your  sexual  life?  Tell  me  straight  so  that  I  will  know  how  to  conduct  myself  in  future.&quot;  Not  someone  to  beat  about  the  bush,  Margaret.  He  has  always  liked  that  about  her.  But  how  should  he  respond?  Yes,  I  have  come  to  the  end  of  my  sexual  life-from  now  on  treat  me  like  a  eu-  nuch?  How  can  he  say  that  when  it  may  not  even  be  true?  Yet  what  if  itis  indeed  true?  What  if  the  snorting  black  steed  of  passion  has  given  up  the  ghost?  The  twi-  light  of  his  manhood.  What  a  letdown,  but  what  a  relief,  too!  86  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  &quot;Margaret,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;give  me  time.&quot;  &quot;And  your  day  help?&quot;  Margaret  says,  going  for  the  weak  spot.  &quot;How  are  you  and  your  day  help  getting  on?&quot;  &quot;My  day  help  and  I  get  on  well,  thank  you.  But  for  her  I  might  not  bother  to  get  out  of  bed  in  the  mornings.  But  for  her  I  might  end  up  as  one  of  those  cases  one  reads  about,  where  the  neighbors  notice  a  bad  smell  and  call  the  police  to  break  down  the  door.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  melodramatic,  Paul.  No-  body  dies  of  an  amputated  leg.&quot;  &quot;No,  but  people  do  die  of  indifference  to  the  future.&quot;  &quot;So  your  day  help  has  saved  your  life.  That's  good.  She  deserves  a  medal.  When  am  I  going  to  meet  her?&quot;  &quot;Don't  take  it  personally,  Margaret.  You  asked  me  a  question,  I  am  trying  to  givea  truthful  answer.&quot;  But  Margaret  does  take  it  personally.  &quot;T'll  be  on  my  way  now,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Give  me  a  call  when  you  are  ready  for  human  society  again.&quot;  arijana  collects  all  his  trousers  and  takes  them  home  with  her.  She  brings  them  back  two  days  later  with  the  right  legs  neatly  folded  and  sewn.  &quot;I  don't  cut  them,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Maybe  you  change  your  mind  and  wear,  you  know,   prosthese.  We  see.&quot;  Prosthese:  she  pronounces  it  as  if  it  were  a  German  word.  Thesis,  antithesis,  then  prosthesis.  The  surgical  wound,  which  hasgiven  no  trouble  hitherto  and  which  he  thought  had  healed  for  good,  starts  to  itch.  Mar-  jana  dusts  it  with  antibiotic  powder  and  winds  it  in  fresh  bandages,  but  the  itch-  ing  continues.  It  is  worst  at  night.  He  has  to  stay  awake  to  keep  himself  from  scratching.  The  wound  feels  to  him  like  a  great  inflamed  jewel  glowing  in  the  darl;  both  guard  and  prisoner,  he  is  con-  demned  to  crouch  over  it,  protecting  it.  The  itching  abates,  but  Marijana  con-  tinuesto  wash  the  stump  with  particular  care,  to  powder  it,  tend  to  it.  From  the  touch  of  her  hand  he  learns  all  he  needs  to  know:  that  Marijana  does  not  find  this  wasted  and  increasingly  flabby  body  distasteful;  that  she  is  prepared,  if  she  can,  and  if  he  will  permit  it,  to  transmit  to  him  through  her  fingertips  a  fair  quan-  tum  of  her  own  ruddy  good  health.  It  is  not  a  cure,  itis  not  done  with  love,  itis  probably  no  more  than  ortho-  dox  nursing  practice,  but  itis  enough.  What  love  there  is  is  all  on  his  side.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  says  when  their  time  is  over,  speaking  with  such  feeling  that  she  gives  him  a  quizzical  look.  &quot;No  worries,&quot;  she  replies.  ne  evening  after  Marijana  has  left  he  rings  for  a  taxi,  then  embarks  alone  on  the  slow  sidewaysdescent  of  the  stairs,  holding  tight  to  the  bannister.  In  the  public  library,  he  finds  two  books  on  Croatia:  a  guidebook  to  Illyria  and  the  Dalmatian  coast  and  a  guide-  book  to  [REDACTED]  and  its  churches;  also  a  number  of  books  on  the  Yugoslav  Feder-  ation  and  on  the  recent  Balkan  wars.  On  what  he  has  come  to  enlighten  himself  about,  however-the  character  of  Croa-  tia  and  its  people-there  is  nothing.  He  checks  out  a  book  called  &quot;Peoples  of  the  Balkans.&quot;  When  the  taxi  returns,  he  is  ready  and  waiting.  &quot;Peoples  of  the  Balkans:  Between  East  and  West,&quot;  so  runs  the  full  title.  Is  that  how  the  Joki¢s  felt  back  home:  caught  between  Orthodox  East  and  Catholic  West?  If  so,  how  do  they  feel  in4175737472616c6961,  where  East  and  West  have  quite  new  meanings?  The  book  has  pages  of  black-and-white  photographs.  In  one  of  them,  a  pair  of  peasant  girls  in  head  scarves  conduct  a  donkey  laden  with  firewood  along  a  rocky  mountain  path.  The  younger  girl  smiles  shyly  at  the  camera,  revealing  a  gap  in  her  teeth.  &quot;Peoples  of  the  Balkans&quot;  dates  from  1962,  before  Marijana  was  even  conceived.  The  pictures  date  from  who  knows  when.  The  two  girls  could  be  grandmothers  by  now,  they  could  be  dead  and  buried.  The  donkey,  too.  Was  this  the  world  Mari-  jana  was  born  into?  ne  morning  Marijana  turns  up  in  the  company  of  a  tall  youth.  It  is  the  boy  in  the  picture,  unmistakably:  Drago.  &quot;My  son  come  look  at  your  bicycle,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;He  can  fix  it  maybe.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Of  course.&quot;  (But,  he  asks  him-  self,  whatever  gave  her  the  idea  he  wants  the  wreck  of  a  bicycle  fixed?)  &quot;Hello,  Drago,  good  to  meet  you.  Thanks  for  coming.&quot;  He  fishes  out  the  key  to  the  store  from  a  mess  of  keys  in  a  drawer  and  gives  it  to  the  boy.  &quot;See  what  you  think.  In  my  opinion,  the  bike  is  be-  yond  help.  The  frame  is  bent.  Ten  to  one  the  tubing  is  cracked.  But  have  a  look.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  the  boy  says.  &quot;I  bring  him  to  talk  to  you,&quot;  Marijana  says  when  they  arealone.  &quot;Like  you  said.&quot;  Like  he  said?  What  could  he  have  said?  That  he  would  give  Drago  a  lesson  in  road  safety?  The  yarn  that  Marijana  has  spun  for  her  son  emerges  only  piece  by  piece:  that  Mr.  Rayment  has  a  bicycle  that  he  wants  fixed  so  that  he  can  sell  it,  but,  being  not  only  crippled  but  maladroit,  too,  he  can-  not  do  the  fixing  himself.  Drago  returns  from  his  inspection  and  delivers  his  report.  Whether  the  frame  is  cracked  or  not  he  cannot  say  offhand.  He  and  his  mates,  one  of  whom  has  ac-  cess  to  a  machine  shop,  could  probably  bend  it  back  into  shape  and  respray  it.  But,  even  so,  a  new  wheel  and  hub  and  derailleur  and  brakes  would  probably  set  him,  Mr.  Rayment,  back  as  much  as  a  good  secondhand  bike.  It  is  perfectly  sensible  advice.  It  is  what  he  would  have  said  himself.  &quot;Thanks  for  looking  at  it,  anyway,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Your  mother  tells  me  you  are  into  motorcycles.&quot;  Yeah,  my  dad  bought  me  a  Yamaha,  250  cc.&quot;  &quot;That's  good.&quot;  He  casts  Marijana  a  glance,  which  the  boy  pretends  not  to  pick  up.  What  more  does  she  want  him  to  say?  &quot;Mum  says  youhad  a  pretty  bad  acci-  dent,&quot;  the  boy  offers.  &quot;Yes.  I  was  in  hospital  for  a  while.&quot;  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  &quot;I  was  hit  by  a  car  as  I  was  turning.&quot;  &quot;That's  bad.&quot;  A  silence.  Is  the  boy  absorbing  the  les-  son  he  is  supposed  to  be  absorbing?  Is  Marijana  getting  what  she  wants?  He  sus-  pects  not.  She  wants  him  to  be  more  volu-  ble:  to  warn  the  boy  how  perilous  the  lot  of  cyclists  is,  and  by  analogy  the  lot  of  mo-  torcyclists;  to  bring  home  to  him  the  ago-  nies  of  injury  and  the  humiliations  of  the  crippled  state.  But  his  sense  of  this  youth  is  that  he  prefers  laconism,  that  he  will  not  take  kindly  to  being  preached  to.  And  what  sea  change  does  Marijana  want  him  to  bring  about,  anyway?  Does  she  really  expect  this  handsome  youth,  bursting  with  good  health,  to  spend  his  evenings  at  home  curled  up  with  a  book  while  his  mates  are  out  having  fun?  To  leave  the  gleaming  new  Yamaha  in  the  garage  and  catch  a  bus?  Drago  Joki¢:  a  name  from  folk  epic.  &quot;The  Ballad  of  Drago  Joki¢.&quot;  He  clears  his  throat.  &quot;Drago,  your  mother  has  asked  me  to  have  a  word  with  you  in  private.&quot;  Marijana  leaves  the  room.  He  turns  to  the  boy.  &quot;Look,  I'm  nothing  to  you,  just  the  man  your  mother  looks  after  and  very  grateful  to  her  for  that.  But  she  asked  me  to  speak  to  youand  I  agreed.  What  I  want  to  tell  you  is,  ifI  could  turn  back  the  clock  to  before  my  accident,  believe  me,  I  would.  You  may  not  think  it,  look-  ing  at  me,  but  I  used  to  lead  an  active  life.  Now  I  can't  even  go  to  the  shops.  And  it  happened  in  a  split  second,  out  of  no-  where.  Well,  it  could  happen  to  you  just  as  easily.  Don't  take  risks  withyour  life,  son,  it's  not  worth  it.  Your  mother  wants  you  to  be  careful  on  your  bike.  I  think  you  should  listen  to  her.  That's  all  I'm  going  to  say.  Your  mother  is  a  good  per-  son,  she  loves  you.  Do  you  understand?&quot;  If  he  had  been  asked  to  predict,  he  would  have  said  that  young  Drago  would  sit  through  a  lecture  of  this  kind  with  his  eyes  cast  down,  picking  at  his  cuti-  cles,  wishing  theold  geezer  would  get  it  over  with.  But  itis  not  like  that  at  all.  Throughout  his  speech  Drago  regards  him  candidly,  a  faint,  not  unfriendly  smile  on  his  well-shaped  lips.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  saysat  the  end.  &quot;Message  received.  I'll  be  careful.&quot;  Then,  after  a  pause:  &quot;You  like  my  mum,  don't  you?&quot;  He  nods.  &quot;She  likes  you,  too.&quot;  She  likes  him,  too.  His  heart  swells  unreasonably.  I  don't  just  like  her,  I  love  her!  Those  are  the  words  he  is  on  the  point  of  bursting  out  with.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  be  of  assistance,  that's  [REDACTED];  he  says  instead.  &quot;That's  why  I've  spoken  to  you.  Not  be-  cause  I  think  I  can  save  you  by  talking,  since  something  like  this&quot;-he  slaps  the  bad  hip  lightly,  jocularly-&quot;just  happens,  you  can't  foresee  it,  you  can't  prevent  it.  But  it  may  help  your  mother  to  know  that  you  know  she  loves  you  and  wants  you  to  be  safe,  wants  it  enough  to  ask  a  stranger  to  put  in  a  word.  O.K.?&quot;  There  are  the  words  themselves,  and  then,  behind  or  around  or  beneath  the  words,  there  is  the  intention.  As  he  speaks  he  is  aware  of  the  boy  watching  his  lips,  brushing  aside  the  word  -strings  as  if  they  were  cobwebs.  His  respect  for  the  boy  is  growing,  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds.  No  ordinary  boy,  this  one!  No  wonder  his  mother  is  fearful.  Marijana  returns,  and  Drago  rises.  &quot;T'll  be  getting  along  now,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Bye,  Mum.&quot;  From  his  lofty  height  he  stoops  and  touches  his  lips  to  her  forehead.  &quot;Bye,  Mr.  Rayment.  Sorry  about  the  bike.&quot;  And  he  is  gone.  &quot;Very  good  tennis  player,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;Very  good  swimmer.Very  good  at  everything.  Very  clever.&quot;  She  gives  a  wan  smile.  &quot;My  dear  Marijana,&quot;  he  says-height-  ened  emotion,  he  tells  himself,  in  a  mo-                                                        ment  of  heightened  emotion  one  can  be  forgiven  for  slipping  in  the  odd  termof  endearment-&quot;I  am  sure  he  will  be  all  right.I  am  sure  he  will  have  a  long  and  happy  life  and  rise  to  be  an  admiral,  if  that  is  what  he  wants  to  be.&quot;  &quot;You  think  so?&quot;  The  smile  has  not  left  her  lips,  but  now  it  speaks  pure  joy:  despite  the  fact  that  he  is  useless  with  his  hands  and  a  cripple  to  boot,  she  believes  he  has  the  power  to  foretell  the  future.  &quot;That's  good.&quot;  t  is  Marijana's  smile,  lingering  in  his  memory,  that  brings  about  the  longed-  for,  the  long-needed  change.  At  once  all  gloom  is  gone,  all  dark  clouds.  He  is  Marijana's  employer,  her  boss,  the  one  whose  wishes  she  is  paid  to  carry  out,  yet  before  she  arrives  each  dayhe  fusses  around  the  apartment,  doing  his  best  to  make  things  spick-and-span  for  her.  He  even  has  flowers  delivered,  to  brighten  the  drabness.  The  situation  is  absurd.  What  does  he  want  of  the  woman?  He  wants  her  to  smile  again,  certainly,  to  smile  on  him.  He  wants  to  win  a  place  in  her  heart,  however  tiny.  Does  he  want  to  become  her  lover,  too?  Yes,  he  does,  in  a  sense,  fervently.  He  wants  to  love  and  cherish  her  and  her  children,  Drago  and  Ljuba  and  the  third  one,  the  one  88  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27,  2005  whom  he  has  yet  to  clapeyes  on.  As  for  the  husband,  he  has  not  the  slight,  est  malign  intent  toward  him,  he  will  swear  to  that.  He  wishes  the  husband  all  happiness  and  good  fortune.  Nev-  ertheless,  he  will  give  anything  to  be  father  to  these  excellent,  beautiful  chil-  dren  and  a  husband  to  Marijana-co-  father  if  need  be,  co-husband  if  need  be,  platonic  if  need  be.  He  wants  to  take  care  ofthem,  all  ofthem,  to  pro-  tect  them  and  save  them.  Drago,  above  all,  he  wants  to  save.  Between  Drago  and  the  lightning  bolt  of  the  envious  gods  he  is  ready  to  interpose  himself,  bare  his  own  breast.  C  ow  is  Drago  getting  on?&quot;  he  asks  Marijana  as  casually  as  he  can.  She  shrugs  despondently.  &quot;This  week-  end  he  will  go  with  his  friends  to  Tun-  kalooloo  beach.  You  say  it  like  that-  &quot;Tunkalilla.&quot;  &quot;'They  go  by  bike.  Wild  friends,  wild  boys.  I'm  frighted.  Islike  gang.  Girls,  too,  you  can't  believe  it,  so  young.I'm  glad  you  speak  to  him  last  week.  Spoke.&quot;  &quot;It  was  nothing.  Just  a  few  fatherly  words.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  he  don't  get  enough  fatherly  words,  like  you  say,  that's  his  problem.&quot;  It  is  the  first  criticism  shehasvoiced  of  the  absent  husband.  He  waits  for  more,  but  there  is  no  more.  &quot;This  is  not  an  easy  country  for  a  boy  to  grow  up  in,&quot;  he  replies  cautiously.  &quot;A  climate  of  manliness  prevails.  A  lot  of  pressure  on  a  boy  to  excel  in  manly  deeds,  manly  sports.  Be  a  daredevil.  Take  risks.  It  is  probably  different  back  where  you  come  from.&quot;  Back  where  you  come  from.  Now  that  he  hears  them,  the  wordssound  conde-  scending.  Why  should  boys  not  also  be  boys  where  the  Jokiés  come  from?  What  does  he  know  about  the  forms  that  man-  liness  takes  in  southeastern  Europe?  He  waits  for  Marijana  to  set  him  right.  But  her  mind  is  elsewhere.  &quot;What  you  think  of  boarding  school,  Mr.  Rayment?&quot;  &quot;What  do  I  think  of  boarding  school?  I  think  it  can  be  very  expensive.  I  also  think  it  is  a  mistake  to  believe  that  in  boarding  schools  young  people  are  watched  over  night  and  day  to  make  sure  they  come  to  no  harm.  But  you  can  get  a  good  education  at  a  boarding  school,  no  doubt  about  that,  or  at  the  better  board-  ing  schools.  Is  that  what  you  are  thinking  of  for  Drago?  Have  you  checked  into  the  fees?  You  should  do  that  first.  The  fees  can  be  high,  absurdly  high.  &quot;But  if  you  areserious  about  it,&quot;  he  plunges  on,  and  even  as  he  speaks  he  feels  the  recklessness  of  what  he  is  say-  ing,  but  he  cannot  stop  himself,  will  not  stop  himself,  &quot;and  if  Drago  himself  re-  ally  wants  to  go,  I  could  help  financially.  We  could  treat  it  as  a  loan.&quot;  There  is  a  moment's  silence.  So,  he  thinks,  itis  out.  No  going  back.  &quot;We  are  thinking,  maybe  he  can  get  scholarship,  with  his  tennis  and  all  that,&quot;  says  Marijana,  who  has  perhaps  not  ab-  sorbed  his  words  and  what  must  lie  be-  hind  them.  Yes,  a  scholarship  is  certainly  a  pos-  sibility.  You  can  investigate  that.&quot;  &quot;Or  we  can  get  loan.&quot;  Now  the  echo  of  his  words  seems  to  reach  her,  and  her  brow  furrows.  &quot;You  can  loanus  money,  Mr.  Rayment?&quot;  &quot;I  can  make  you  a  loan.  Interest-  free.  You  can  pay  it  back  when  Drago  is  earning.&quot;  “Wlly?”  &quot;It  is  an  investment  in  his  future.  In  the  future  of  all  of  us.&quot;  She  shakes  her  head.  &quot;Why?&quot;  she  re-  peats.  &quot;I  don't  understand.&quot;  It  is  one  of  the  days  when  shehas  brought  Ljuba  with  her.  In  her  scarlet  pinafore,  with  her  legs,  one  in  a  scar-  let  stocking,  one  in  a  purple,  stretched  out  on  the  sofa,  her  arms  slack  at  her  sides,  the  child  could  be  mistaken  for  a  doll,  were  it  not  for  thesearching  black  eyes.  &quot;Surely  you  must  know,  Marijana,&quot;  he  whispers.  His  mouth  is  dry,  his  heart  is  thudding,  it  is  as  awful  and  as  thrilling  as  when  he  was  sixteen.  &quot;Surely  a  woman  always  knows.&quot;  Again  she  shakes  her  head.  She  seems  genuinely  puzzled.  &quot;Don't  understand.&quot;  &quot;I  will  tell  you  in  private.&quot;  She  murmurs  to  the  child.  Obedi-  ently,  Ljuba  picks  up  her  little  pink  back-  pack  and  trots  off  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;There,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;Now  say.&quot;  &quot;I  love  you.  That  is  all.  I  love  youand  I  want  to  give  you  something.  Let  me.&quot;  A  silence  falls,  and  Marijana  does  nothing  to  help.  But  at  least  she  does  not  turn  on  her  heel.  What  he  ought  to  do,  of  course,  is  embrace  the  woman.  Breast  to  breast  she  could  not  mistake  him.  But  to  em-  brace  her  he  must  put  aside  the  absurd  crutches  that  allow  him  to  stand  up,  and  once  he  does  that  he  will  totter,  per-  haps  fall.  Marijana  waves  a  hand  as  if  she  were  wiping  a  windowpane  or  flapping  a  dish-  cloth.  &quot;You  want  to  pay  so  Drago  can  go  to  boarding  school?&quot;  she  says,  and  the  spell  is  broken.  Is  that  what  he  wants:  to  pay  for  Drago's  schooling?  Yes.  He  wants  Drago  to  have  a  good  education.  He  wants  Ljuba  and  her  elder  sister  to  grow  up  happy,  too.  Over  the  whole  broodhe  wants  to  extend  the  shield  of  his  benevolent  pro-  tection.  And  he  wants  to  love  this  excel-  lent  woman,  their  mother.  That  above  all.  For  which  he  will  pay  anything.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;That  is  what  I  am  offering.&quot;  She  meets  his  gaze  squarely.  Though  he  cannot  swear  to  it,  he  believes  she  is  blushing.  Then,  swiftly,  she  leaves  the  room.  A  moment  later  she  is  back.  The  red  kerchief  is  gone,  her  hair  is  shaken  free.  On  one  arm  shehas  Ljuba,  on  the  other  the  pink  satchel.  She  is  murmuring  into  the  child's  ear.  The  child,  thumb  in  mouth,  turns  and  inspects  him  curiously.  &quot;We  must  go,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  And  in  a  whisk  they  are  gone.  He  has  done  it.  He,  an  old  man  with  knobbly  fingers,  has  confessed  his  love.  But  dare  he  even  for  a  moment  hope  that  this  woman,  in  whom  he  has  with-  out  forethought,  without  hesitation  sunk  all  his  hopes,  will  love  him  back?  he  next  day  Marijana  does  not  ar-  rive.  Nor  does  she  come  on  Fri-  day.  On  Saturday,  the  telephone  rings.  &quot;Mr.  Rayment?  This  is  Marijana.  How  are  you?  Sorry  I  missed  my  days.  I  was  crook.  I  come  tomorrow,  O.K.?&quot;  So  that  is  to  be  the  fiction  between  them:  she  was  crook.  &quot;Yes,  of  course  itis  O.K.,  Marijana.  I  hope  you  are  feeling  better.  I  will  see  you  as  usual  tomorrow.&quot;  Why  Marijana  has  decided  to  come  back  emerges  as  soon  as  she  steps  through  the  frontdoor.  Before  even  taking  off  her  coat-it  is  raining,  a  warm,  steamy  rain  that  carries  a  tang  of  eucalyptus-she  slaps  down  on  the  table  a  glossy  bro-  chure.  On  the  cover,  mock-Gothic  build-  ings  against  acres  of  greensward;  in  a  panel,  a  well-scrubbed  boy  in  shirtsleeves  and  tie  at  a  computer  keyboard,  with  an  equally  well-scrubbed  chum  peering  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;[REDACTED]  College:  Five  Decades  of  Excellence.&quot;  He  has  never  heard  of  [REDACTED]  College.  &quot;Drago  say  he  will  go  here,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;Look  like  good  school,  don't  you  think?&quot;  He  pages  through  the  brochure.  &quot;  'Sister  institution  to  [REDACTED]  Col-  lege  in  Pembrokeshire,&quot;  &quot;  he  reads  aloud.  &quot;  Preparing  young  men  for  the  chal-  lenges  of  a  new  century.  .  ..  Careers  in  business,  science  and  technology,  the  armed  forces.&quot;  Where  is  this  place?  How  did  you  find  out  about  it?&quot;  &quot;Drago  know  all  about  it.  Is  food  school  for  Defense  Force  Academy.&quot;  &quot;Feeder  school.&quot;  &quot;Feeder  school.  They  get,  you  know,  preference.&quot;  He  returns  to  the  brochure.  Applica-  tion  form.  Schedule  of  fees.  He  knew  that  boarding-school  fees  were  high;  nevertheless,  in  black-and-white  the  fig-  uresgive  him  a  jolt.  &quot;How  many  years  would  he  be  there?&quot;  &quot;If  he  start  January,  two  years.  In  two  years  he  can  get  year  twelve,  then  he  can  get  bursary.  Is  just  fee  for  two  years  he  need.&quot;  &quot;And  Drago  is  enthusiastic  about  the  school?  He  has  agreed  to  go?&quot;  &quot;Very  enthusiastic.  He  want  to  go.&quot;  &quot;It's  normal,  you  know,  for  the  parents  to  take  a  look  at  a  school  first  before  com-  mitting  themselves.  Make  a  tour  of  the  premises,  speak  to  the  headmaster,  get  a  feel  of  the  place.  Are  you  sure  you  and  your  husband  and  Drago  don't  want  to  pay  a  visit  to  [REDACTED]  College  first?&quot;  Marijana  takes  off  the  raincoat-it  is  made  of  some  clear  plastic  material,  purely  functional-and  drapes  it  over  a  chair.  Her  skin  is  warm,  ruddy.  No  trace  of  the  tension  of  their  last  encounter.  &quot;[REDACTED]  College,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You  think  [REDACTED]  College  wants  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joki¢  from  Munno  Para  come  visit,  see  if  maybe  [REDACTED]  Col-  lege  is  O.K.  for  their  boy?&quot;  Her  tone  is  good-natured  enough.  If  anyone  is  embarrassed,  itis  he.  &quot;In  Croatia,  you  know,  Mr.  Rayment,  my  husband  was  respected  man.  He  fix  old  clocks,  he  fix  old  toys,  all  things  clockwork  he  fix  perfect.  Specialist  tech-  nician  in  antique  mechanisms  is  how  you  call  it.  But  here&quot;-she  casts  her  eyes  up  to  the  heavens-&quot;who  cares?  In  Aus-  tralia  is  no  antique  mechanisms.  So  Miro-  slay  Joki¢  just  autoworker.  Is  nothing,  autoworker.&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  sure  I  agree,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;An  autoworker  is  not  nothing.  Nobody  is  nothing.  Anyhow,  whether  you  are  from  Munno  Para  or  Timbuktu,  my  guess  is  that  [REDACTED]  College  will  be  only  too  glad  to  take  your  money.  Go  ahead  and  apply.  I'll  pay.  I'll  give  you  a  check  right  now  for  the  application  fee.&quot;  So  there  it  is.  As  easy  as  that.  He  is  committed.  He  has  become  a  godfather.  The  godfather:  the  manwho  stands  beside  the  father  at  the  baptismal  font,  giving  his  blessing  to  the  new  soul  and  pledging  his  lifelong  support.  As  the  priest  in  the  ritual  plays  the  part  of  the  Son  and  intercessor,  and  the  father  is,  of  course,  the  Father,  so  the  godfather  stands  for  the  Holy  Spirit.  At  least,  that  is  how  he  conceives  of  it.  A  figure  with-  out  substance,  ghostly,  beyond  anger  and  desire.  &quot;Is  good,&quot;  Marijana  says.  &quot;I  tell  Drago.  You  make  him  very  happy.&quot;  A  pause.  &quot;And  you?  Leg  is  O.K.?  No  pain?  You  do  your  exercises?&quot;  &quot;The  leg  is  O.K.,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;No  pain,  no  pain  at  all.&quot; 