THE LASER AGE
By Justin Tussing
These days, high schools look like pastel-hued laboratories. Sunshine pours down through skylights while vents in the walls pump in ionized air. At the back of the room, you find a newspaper archive or a place where the kids watch through a Plexiglas window as bees secrete royal jelly. There’s no sense of curriculum. Everyone is too busy building a résumé. Instead of study halls, the students hold internships. The teachers don’t teach—they just sit at the front of the class and laugh at the jokes the kids make. If a kid asks a question, the teacher responds with another question.
In 1972, my peers and I climbed cast-concrete stairs to Annex 11—“annex” was the word that the school district used for the plain white trailers stranded on the blacktop. On a humid September morning, thirty-five of us, heat-anesthetized and yawny, busied ourselves by scratching our names into the desk tops with house keys and penknives and the resilient points of our ballpoint pens. Someone had drawn a set of boobs on the ceiling with the soot from a lighter.
“Mahey, why are you so pale? You look like a troglodyte.” Ray Moschi’s vocabulary was all science fiction. He filled graph-paper notebooks with sketches of rocket prototypes and babes with swords. A generation later, one of his nephews would shoot up the school just as the buses started to arrive.
I was supposed to say, “Because I was under your mother all summer.” Instead I said, “I was making electricity.”
“So was I,” Moschi said, “with your mother.” He stood up and pumped his hips. Then, pretending his dick was a stick shift, he raced around the desks, changing gears. “Vroom vroom vrooooom vroooooooooom.”
The door snapped open and a confused-looking girl came in. She wore a brown tweed skirt, a gauzy shawl folded across her shoulders. She carried too many books and the wrong sort of bag. We recognized her as a stranger.
“How’d you find this place?” she asked.
While Moschi continued abusing his gearbox, the girl made the really unexplainable mistake of choosing the wrong desk. Some of us considered correcting her, while the others reached the obvious conclusion. Moschi was still going up and down the aisles making burnout sounds. She asked him his name.
Moschi’s face lit up; he put his dick into reverse and sidled up beside her. “Raymond,” he said, which was not how any of us thought of him.
At the dawn of a new school year, you were allowed to pretend that you were not yourself. Something might have happened over the summer. You hoped that you had become smarter or more attractive. Your mother bought you a new outfit so that the teachers wouldn’t recognize the familiar disappointment you’d been the year before. But we were juniors now. We were running out of time for reinvention. No one really expected our caterpillar selves to emerge as butterflies. We were all second-tier students. That was why we’d been enrolled in the History of Technology instead of Ancient History. HisTech owed its origin to an often observed phenomenon: those same students who struggle with the standard curriculum usually have no problem reboring V-8 engines.
The girl opened one of her notebooks. “Raymond Moschi,” she said, making a mark in her book. “Do me a favor, Raymond. Race back to the office, please, and see if you can find us some chalk and an eraser.”
The class burst apart like thunder, our delight reverberating inside the melamine walls.
The teacher made a show of placing her shawl over the chair back, organizing her desk, slotting folders into desk drawers, sharpening pencils, all the while not looking at us looking at her. When Ray returned with the chalk and eraser, she sent him back out for a fan. Then she walked to the front and wrote her name on the chalkboard. I wrote “Alice Lowe” on the palm of my hand. Miss Lowe came over to my desk to see what I’d done. She looked at my hand, then told me to add “notebook,” so I’d remember to get one.
I really had been making electricity. Thanks to my father, I’d spent the summer working as a subsystem technician at West State Power. My responsibilities included recording meter readings and hydraulic levels and checking the pressure gauges on back vents. All summer I’d prayed for some genius to figure out how to replace me with a machine. The rest of the time I’d thought about girls. The only woman at the plant drove a front-loader.
Since no girl was just going to show up at my parents’ house, I had gone looking for one. Most high-school kids hung out by River Park, which was a terraced parking lot abutting the [REDACTED] River. I staked out the brick plaza downtown; I figured I’d have less competition there. Besides, with its rosebushes and trees trimmed to look like lollipops, the plaza seemed designed for girls. But the town’s flood wall shielded the plaza from the pleasant breezes that kicked off the river, breezes that had been the town’s birthright. Also, because of the flood wall, you couldn’t watch the river’s lazy show. The only thing to look at was the vintage Mercury patrol car parked directly across from the police station. The hulking cruiser crouched over the bricks, all gleaming chrome and bottomless black paint.
Girls failed to materialize. When someone finally took an interest in me, it was a guy. I expected him to walk past like everyone else—the pigeon feeders and the kids on bicycles and the women with their babies in strollers who gave me a wide berth. This guy stopped to stare at me, as if we shared some history and he was only waiting for me to realize it. I didn’t feel like meeting his eyes. Instead, I looked at his shoes. They were the weirdest shoes I’d ever seen; they looked like he’d stolen them from a museum. They appeared to be made of straw. Maybe he’d made them himself.
He asked a question. “Are you thinking about turning yourself in?”
“Into what?”
He jabbed his thumb over his shoulder, toward the police station.
“What would I turn myself in for?”
The stranger sat down beside me. He spread his arms across the back of the bench.
I leaned forward, looking left and right, as though I were expecting someone.
“I like to keep an eye on them,” offered the stranger.
Tiny clouds, all equidistant from one another, dotted the August sky.
“You like to keep an eye on who?”
“The Man.”
“What’s wrong with your shoes?” I asked.
He looked down at his feet. “There’s nothing wrong with them; they’re huaraches.”
“Huaraches?”
“Mexican Indians make them. Theirs is the oldest civilization in North America.”
The stranger had a chubby face and wore shapeless clothes.
“They look crazy,” I said.
“Are you a philosopher?”
“Am I a philosopher?”
“That’s what I’m asking you.” Pink wrinkles lined his forehead. I saw that what I’d thought of as a tan was actually a layer of dirt.
“I’m a student.”
“What do you study?”
“I don’t study anything. I’m in high school.”

“Classic.”
“I have to go,” I said. I stood up and turned toward the police station; it seemed less likely that he would bother me if I headed that way.
“Hey.” He reached out his hand so we could shake.
Behind squinted, fleshy lids, his eyes were a fragile blue.
He refused to let go of my hand. “Do you know who I am?”
I looked at him hard, but rather than figure out who he was I tried to tell him who I was—namely, not the kind of person he wanted to mess with. I shook my head.
He turned his palm. “Think for a second.” His thumb prevented me from retrieving my hand.
“Are you a musician?” He looked like he could own a guitar.
He shook his head. His hair was curly and burned-butter brown.
“I don’t know.”
As he let go of my hand, he pointed his forefinger at my head and cocked the thumb. “Bang.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“Kill the cop in your head.” 

“O.K.,” I said.
With his body draped across the bench, he cast his eyes about. There was something catlike in the way he moved—not an agility, but a sense of ease or entitlement. He might as well have been in his living room.
“You into transcendental meditation?”
I had no idea how to answer. I started to walk away.
“Do you believe in the existence of superintelligent agents of progress?”
“Do you?” I asked.
His hands flew apart, as if I’d asked him to weigh two equal things.
Heading home, it dawned on me that my vigil hadn’t been well conceived. Even if a girl had walked by, I probably would have scared her away.
"You know who that was, don’t you?” Pawpaw asked.
We were gathered in the kitchen. My mother, Mary, had just finished rolling chicken breasts in coconut flakes. As we watched, she plopped them into a pan of hot oil.
“Your mother has a sophisticated palate,” Fran said, walking over to tug on the refrigerator door. Fran was my father. “And you just met the King of the River Rats.”
“River rat” was an expression in our town used to denote a person with low prospects. There were river-rat neighborhoods and river-rat taverns. If someone annoyed him, Fran might say, “You know that river rat So-and-So.” But the King of the River Rats didn’t mean a thing to me. I thought he was pulling my leg.
“Shiloh Tanager,” Pawpaw said.
The public schools served as a reliquary for stories about Shiloh Tanager. Supposedly, as a baby, he’d been abandoned on the stone steps of the police station. He’d run away from orphanages and foster parents and everybody else. People claimed that he could make a radio from a battery and a twist of wire. He’d been in knife fights and shovel fights. Using block and tackle, he had recovered a Civil War cannon from the river’s muddy banks. He had been known to ride railcars, associate with criminals, elude the police. He used to have a shack on the damp floodplain outside town. But it had been a couple of years since anyone had seen him. Some people said he was dead. There was a persistent rumor about some kid who knew some kid who had come across his stinking bones.
“Shiloh was always thin as a bird,” Mary said. “Thomas said this fellow was chubby.”
“So he’s put on a little weight,” Fran said. “After all, he’s not a kid anymore.”
When the coconut turned brown, Mary fished the chicken pieces out of the oil. She set the meat on a wire rack to drain.
“I don’t suppose anyone will try to run him out of town again,” Pawpaw said. “The last time some fools tried to burn his home down, he snuck up behind them with an axe handle.”
“They should have left it to the cops,” Fran said. “That place of his is an illegal encampment. He could be arrested for vagrancy.”
“I’m not crazy about vagrancy laws,” Pawpaw said. “I don’t think a person should be held liable for his luck.”
“Your grandfather is an extremely moral person,” Fran said. “That’s his privilege for surviving a war. He’s got ideals. Most folks only have principles.”
“We can’t be sure it’s him,” Mary said. My mother always found doubt irresistible. She reached up to touch the pins that held her black hair in place.
“Oh, it’s him,” Fran said, crossing his arms. “I saw him poking around down by the plant the other day. My phone rang and the next time I looked he was gone.”
“He was probably collecting parts for his paranoia boxes.” Pawpaw raised his hands to indicate a shoebox-size device. “He sells them. Claims they monitor a secret radio frequency our government plans to use in the event of a nuclear catastrophe.”
Mary shivered. “They don’t work, do they?”
“Of course not,” Fran said, reaching over to pat her forearm. “It’s just a bunch of wires and a little blinking light. That’s people for you. They don’t know science from nonsense.”
I didn’t understand how my parents could know so much about a ghost.
Sometimes Miss Lowe stood before the class, our textbook propped against her hip; other times, she would sit on her desk and set the book beside her—tucking her wheat-gold hair behind her ear whenever it fell across her face. Right off the bat we knew nothing, but she taught us how things put into our brains could be retrieved with some degree of reliability.
Everything we took out of the class was a testament to her will. She wasn’t a graceful teacher; her lessons didn’t unfold before us. She taught like someone might dig a ditch. She spaded the soil of our ignorance and pitched it out. There was something single-minded about it. She would pause to dab at her forehead with a blue bandanna. I’d never known a woman to perspire so much. We had no idea she’d just earned her teaching certificate.
Miss Lowe asked us to interpret, infer, and extrapolate. She encouraged us to deduce. She reminded us to consider the big picture. She said we should remember that everything inside the book is just a depiction of everything outside the book. What did that mean?
Well, she said, what is the significance of the wall that rings this town? Significance? What does it tell you? That the river sometimes floods. Yes, that the river sometimes floods. Not recently, added Chrissy Ledew. Chrissy liked to sit in the back of the class and read magazines like Hair Monthly! and Bangs.
I wanted to reinvent myself as a student, not for me, or for Fran and Mary, but because of this woman, with her thick fingers and too-small nose. I was trying to harness my powers of perception. And so I looked at what was close at hand. The covers of each of my textbooks depicted a variation on the same theme—a laser being pulled apart by a prism or rebounding within the edges of the book. A bigger picture of the world took form in my head. I asked Miss Lowe, “Right now, is this the Laser Age?”

“Is what the Laser Age?”
“This,” I said. “Now.”
She handed the question over to the class. “Does anyone know the name for the present age?”
Someone said, “The Stadium-Rock-and-Roll Age.”
“What about jet planes?” another classmate suggested.
“Maybe the first thing we ought to do,” Miss Lowe said, “is consider what stone, bronze, and iron have in common.”
“They’re metal,” came a voice from the back of the room.
All you need to know about that class is that none of us had the confidence to question this statement.
“You make things out of them,” I said.
“And what kinds of things?” Miss Lowe prompted.
The class raced to list all the things that could be formed from stone, bronze, or iron.
“And what could you call those things?” Miss Lowe asked.
“Tools,” Ray Moschi said.
“Right. So one thing to consider is what we make tools out of today.”
“Steel,” shouted one of the shop-class savants.
“It’s the Nylon Age,” Chrissy said.
Someone voiced the group’s concern: “Is this a trick question?” We felt very vulnerable to trick questions.
“I don’t see how,” Miss Lowe said.
And then the bell shot us into the hall.
Later, Ray told Chrissy she could be the queen of the Lumber Age, because she gave him a woody.
I returned to the girlless plaza. I played to my only strength: my patience. When an afternoon sprinkle threatened to turn into rain, I didn’t pack it in. The girl in my mind, the girl I was waiting for, had begun to seem more real.
I watched a hunched figure cut through the plaza. He carried, tucked beneath one arm, an object wrapped in a cruddy bedsheet. He walked right past me.
“You’re Shiloh Tanager,” I said.
The stranger stopped and turned toward me. “In the flesh.”
I felt like the detective who triumphantly announces that he’s alone with the killer.
“You going to tell me your name?” he asked.
I shook my head. 

“What are you doing down here? Someone stand you up?” He switched the parcel to his other arm.
“I just came here to think.”
“Any luck?”
There was nothing hostile in his question. He sounded like someone who’d engaged hundreds of strangers in pointless, circling conversations.
“Fran saw you down by the river.”
“Who’s Fran?”
“Fran’s my father.”
Shiloh reached up to scratch the crown of his head. Next he scratched the back of his arm. It occurred to me that he might have fleas.
“Is Fran a cop?”
“He works at West State Power.”
“You think he’d let me poke around that place? Because, believe me, I could cause some honest trouble in a joint like that.”
I said, “It’d be pretty hard to mess things up. Everything is automated.”
“Yeah? What do you imagine would happen if I sprinkled iron filings in the right spot?”
“Probably nothing.”
“Whamm-o! Blackout. The whole state goes dark.”
“I don’t think iron filings would do that. Even if they did, they’d just call one of the other power stations and someone would flip a switch and that would be it.”
“Fran ever let you inside?”
I said, “I used to work there.”
Before working as a subsystem technician, I’d considered electricity an essentially noble force. The lesson that job had taught me was that power was inseparable from the diesel stink of the front-loaders racing to relocate mountains of coal, from the buzzing of the transformers, from the turbines’ pervasive whirr.
For the protection of the workers, all catwalks and access tunnels were shielded with a pliable steel mesh, which the constant humidity was quickly turning to rust. Orange-red dust settled on everything; if I brushed against a handrail it painted a mark on the chambray jumpsuit the plant had provided me with. The other thing the plant had provided was a pair of rubber gauntlet gloves. The gloves were supposed to prevent us from inadvertently becoming an electrical pathway, but everyone wore them looped over the belts of their jumpsuits.
There were twenty-six critical measurements I needed to record hourly on a clipboard. A dozen non-critical indicators needed to be confirmed at the beginning and end of each shift. The route I followed had been carefully calibrated to eat up exactly one hour, but if I jogged I could take all my measurements in under forty minutes, leaving twenty minutes unaccounted for.
Off the main service passage, down some stairs and through a heavy door, I discovered a sunken room. In the center of this room, three identical motors were lined up, side by side, by a low guardrail. On the other side of the guardrail, the floor fell away. The motors looked like cattle coming to a trough to drink. From each engine, a single pipe descended into the darkness. This was the sump room. Between rounds, I would lie down among the machines, prop my feet on the rail, and close my eyes. The vegetable heat of the place and the dull humming of the machinery lulled me to sleep.
Of course, I started thinking about girls. Living in such close quarters with my parents and Pawpaw, there wasn’t much use dwelling on girls, but here I was unobserved. And since I had already made peace with sleeping on the job, it wasn’t a big step to other unprofessional behavior. I was supposed to stay in my assigned area and keep my hands off things, unless they were the things that I was supposed to put my hands on. This was for my safety. And yet I found myself leaning against the railing with my eyes closed, until my knees buckled, and for a moment it seemed as if I might pitch forward into that black pit.
“I’ve got a question for you,” Shiloh said. “Does nepotism ensure society or undermine it?”
I tried to look skeptical.
“You know what nepotism is, right? People giving jobs to relatives. That’s nepotism.”
“It was only a summer job,” I said.
“If there’s anything worse than a summer job, I don’t know what it is. You always stand in the rain?” he asked me.
I shook my head. “We talked before,” I said.
“I know. You’re the philosopher.”
“People thought you were dead.”
“No, I wasn’t dead, I was travelling.” Either a raindrop fell on his face or he winked at me. “Abracadabra,” he said.
“What?”
He looked up at the sky. “Time for me to disappear.”
The congested halls between bells, the stoned kids, the bullies and the scared-o’s, the kids in marching band dragging their heavy plastic cases. The cymbal crash of locker doors and the zip spin of combination locks. Everywhere I turned, girls—in faded dungarees and jersey-knit dresses. But they were the wrong girls. We honed our peripheral vision out of necessity. We existed in a state of hyperawareness and we had dull, thoughtless faces.
I stopped when I heard my name. People flowed around me. Miss Lowe stood at the threshold of the teachers’ lounge. “Someone looks pensive,” she said. I felt the weight of her undivided attention. Her pea-colored sweater, her suède boots, the point of her chin, her pale-pink gums were all forms of consolation.

I took a step toward her. “I was spacing out.”
We were close enough that I could smell banana in her shampoo.
She was smiling at me. I looked at my shoes. One of the laces had come undone. I knelt down. Next thing I knew, I was sprawled in the hall.
“Wipeout,” someone said.
The other kids stepped over me. Girls in short denim skirts stepped over me. I was invisible to them.
Miss Lowe gave me her hand. She leaned back and pulled me to my feet.
“Thought I’d lost you for a second.”
I couldn’t make up my mind about the color of her eyes. I hung my head. “I was pushed.”
“I’ll bet it was an accident.”
“I don’t believe in accidents.”
Already the current was abating; kids slipped through doors.
“No?”
Miss Lowe inspired me to have opinions. I said, “Some people see everything as an accident. They’re always asking how this or that happened, and they always come up with the idea of an accident. My mother claims my father is accident-prone, but nothing bad ever happens to him. Meanwhile, her first husband died in [REDACTED] when a type of deer they have there jumped off an overpass and through the windshield of their car.”
“How awful.”
“If he’d swerved, the deer could have killed my mother. Then I wouldn’t be here.”
“Well,” she said, as adults will when confronted with a kid’s stupidity. But after a moment she added, “I’d miss you.”
Miss Lowe, I thought, who have you mistaken me for? I hope I have a tragic accident or that I do something foolishly brave to confirm what you are thinking. But I also knew there was no way that she could be thinking what I was thinking. She had to have a higher purpose in mind.
“It would be a tragedy,” I said. “I suppose.”
In class, she seemed so self-possessed, as if she had already weighed and measured everything we might possibly say. But now a quick sound escaped her, a laugh. I don’t know if I’d heard her laugh before. I wanted to hear that happy sound again. If she’d laughed when I’d fallen down, I could have fallen again, but she laughed at what I’d said and I was less sure of my ability to reproduce that.
“Then again,” I said, “if I weren’t alive my grandfather could stop sleeping on the porch and move into my room. Of course, he wouldn’t be my grandfather, either.”
One of the science teachers came up behind Miss Lowe to see which brainless fool she was talking to. He stopped to tap on the foggy glass of a terrarium. Then he let his eyes drift down Miss Lowe’s back.
“Your grandfather sleeps on the porch?”
“He’s an iconoclast. Which means . . . well, I guess you know what it means.”
The hall was empty but for the two of us. I had to be somewhere, certainly. 
Miss Lowe stepped toward me, pulling the door closed behind her. She reached out and brushed a fingernail across the shoulder of my shirt. “Dust,” she said.
I said, “Miss Lowe, do you think that I could meet you sometime at a neutral location?” I had to make it ridiculous to say it at all.
“By neutral, I presume you mean away from school.”
“And, obviously, not a bar or a library, though a library would be pretty neutral for me.”
She closed her eyes for a second. She seemed to be working out a complicated equation. Maybe she was thinking about aqueducts or Pythagoras. I was afraid she was going to say something like “I’m very disappointed in you.” Occasionally this look would come over her in class, as if, despite our chirping questions and mouth breathing, she had found herself alone in the room. Now her lips started to make this shape, this spreading, opening shape. She said, “O.K.”
Pawpaw stayed on the screen porch, smoking cigarettes and growing thinner. He slept out there on a cot. He came inside for meals and, sometimes, to use the bathroom. The azalea bush beside the porch door showed signs of ammonia poisoning. He liked to lie in his cot, entertaining his thoughts. Most of those thoughts revolved around mornings he had spent smoking in [REDACTED] during the First World War. He could remember the faces of the people he knew there, their sleeping and tortured and peaceful faces. Mostly he liked to think about the faces they made when they smoked. The cigarettes were free.
The Army had trained Pawpaw to set up and maintain telegraph wires. But when he arrived in [REDACTED] he was put in charge of three dozen messenger pigeons. He wasn’t supposed to feed the pigeons too much, but it was hard not to; the pigeons would always eat. In general, he recalled, it had been a slow war.
Pawpaw had been stationed near a small stone bridge. He liked to stand on the bridge, staring into the water, and smoke. He could see the mossy stones in the streambed.
I asked him once if he ever wanted to go back to that bridge.
He cocked his head. “Why would I want to do that?” From his brush-cut hair to his skinny legs, there was nothing extraneous about him. Even his speech was pointed and clipped. Pawpaw’s only vanity was his hair, which he washed with Ivory soap and combed with coal tar.
“You could see everything again.”
“And what do you think that would accomplish?”
“It might help you remember things.”
“I remember things fine. I remember the cigarettes. I remember the egg pies.” There was a farm just down the road, and every morning the farmer’s wife brought him and his buddy an egg pie.
“I just thought it might be cool if you got a chance to see those things again.”
This was on one of those misty days when the moisture fills the screens so that every tiny opening offers a portrait of the outside world, perfect but upside down.
“The whole point of that war was to get your Pawpaw off that bridge.”
“What do you mean?”
“Forget those supposed histories you find in books. I mean exactly what I said. The whole purpose of the Great War was to get me off that bridge.”
“That’s the craziest thing you’ve ever said.”
“The crazy thing is that ten million people died. Yet as soon as they sent home all of us guys who’d been standing on bridges, the war was over. Why couldn’t they have done that first?”
I didn’t see Miss Lowe for two weeks over Christmas break. She’d told the class that she was visiting her sister outside Chattanooga. In Miss Lowe’s absence, I did stupid things like sniffing soap at the pharmacy, trying to determine the brand she used. Before the break, everyone had given her presents—chocolate apples, winter gloves, a bootjack. I put a card on her desk that read, “Miss Lowe, You will be receiving a 1-year subscription to Popular Mechanics magazine, courtesy of the Mahey family. Merry Christmas!” Mary had bought subscriptions for all my teachers, at a discount, from someone at our church.

Except for an usher going over the carpet with an automatic broom, the movie theatre’s lobby was empty. It had a high tin ceiling. Off to the side, a snack bar was crammed into a little alcove. It wasn’t a diner, exactly, but there was a counter and a few booths. The walls were covered with those weird mirrors that are crazed with veins of gold paint.
Miss Lowe came in wearing a boatneck sweater and a skirt like a Persian rug. The fabrics rubbing together generated so much static that, as she made her way to my booth, her hair levitated about her face. This, I imagined, was the kind of effect that would prevent a woman from wearing something a second time. I concluded she’d dressed just for me.
“You’re here!” she said.
Outside of class her voice had a great capacity for warmth.
“In the flesh,” I said.
The woman behind the counter circled words in a pulpy pamphlet and paid us no mind.
The second thing Miss Lowe said was “I’m glad we did this.” I’d planned to say something similar when we went our separate ways. I had no idea what I would say now.
“This place is great,” she said, pulling her hair back from her face. From beneath the table, Miss Lowe’s bare feet appeared. They found a spot beside me on the seat. Just as suddenly they darted away.
“Sorry,” she said. “My manners are the pits.”
I said, “I don’t even have manners.”
It’s hard to remember if she acted the way I like people to act, or if what I like in people is to be reminded of Alice Lowe.
She reached across the table and poked my arm. “You’ve got green eyes,” she said.
Nothing she could have said would have made me any happier.
“Well,” Miss Lowe said, “aren’t we a couple of cheap dates.”
The last word just hung in the air.
“Can I see your necklace?” I asked her.
She pinched the chain and lifted it out of her sweater. It was a delicate cross with silver filigree.
“That’s cool,” I said.
“Do you wear a cross?”
I felt disappointed in myself; I didn’t.
“Don’t you love the idea of miracles?” Miss Lowe said.
“Any welcome event is a miracle, according to Pawpaw.”
I had to explain to her that Pawpaw was my mother’s father.
“So you believe in miracles, but not accidents?”
That was my position.
Miss Lowe’s feet reappeared on the cushion beside me—by Pawpaw’s definition, a miracle.
“This was your idea,” she reminded me. “Ask me questions.”
Her favorite color: yellow. Her favorite sport: waterskiing. The three freckles on her neck formed a line that pointed to her collarbone. On one arm she wore about a hundred silver hoops, while wrapped around the other wrist was a braided leather band. When she moved her arm across the table, the silver hoops turned like wheels. By noticing the smallest details, I hoped to make myself worthy of her. The only jewelry I owned was an enamel pin from the Mexico City Olympics.
“Can I ask you a question?” Miss Lowe said.
I had allowed myself to slouch in my seat. When I tried to push myself up, my hand came down on Miss Lowe’s ankle. I was amazed that my hand had achieved something I couldn’t will.
I told her she could ask me anything.
“Thomas,” she said, “what do you think about when you look at me?”
An honest answer was unthinkable. I said, “I’m probably just daydreaming.”
“And what are you daydreaming about?”
I don’t think she expected me to answer. I got the sense she was looking for a chance to put me on my heels.
“I don’t think I should say.”
“I’m the worst teacher,” she said.
I smiled at her.
“I really am.” 
The woman behind the counter left her station to prop open the theatre’s red doors. Miss Lowe turned her face toward the mirrored wall, as a recorded orchestra played a martial tune and couples emerged, blinking, into the bright lobby. I met her reflected gaze. We stayed like that for several uncomfortable moments.
I said, “You’re the smartest person I know.”
She turned to look at me head on. “Thomas, do you have a girlfriend?”
“Currently I have exactly zero girlfriends.” I felt like I was leaking information. The longer we sat there, the greater the odds that I would be left without secrets or hope.
Back behind the counter, the woman poured popping corn into a hopper.
“I don’t think I’m going to college,” I said, though I hadn’t given the matter any thought before.
The woman I’d been sitting with disappeared and a more familiar person took her place. “What do you think you’re going to do?” she asked, and then, almost as an afterthought, she added, “You know you would probably be able to get in somewhere.”
I said, “I think I’d prefer to learn things in a more realistic environment.”
“Sure,” she said, but something in her tone suggested that she didn’t quite agree with me.
“Or maybe I’ll travel.”
Miss Lowe drew shapes on the Formica tabletop with her fingertip. “Do you ever get lonely, Thomas?”
It was obvious that she didn’t know the first thing about me. My bedroom and my parents’ room shared a wall—only the dehumidifier in Mary’s closet disguised our night sounds. Pawpaw’s military background meant that he didn’t think twice about visiting me in the bathroom. How, in that house, could a person feel lonely? “Why?” I asked. “Do you?”
She drove a Plymouth Valiant, a schoolteacher’s car, modest and neat and six or seven years old, with full-length chrome molding and Blue Dot whitewall tires. The paint, a sort of blooming algae.
I walked to the passenger door.
She slotted the key in the lock. “You knew this was my car.”
“You were walking toward it,” I said.
“No,” she said, opening the door. “You were in front of me.”
Inside her car, the headliner cloth was coming unglued from the ceiling—it jiggled like the walls of a tent.
It was the emptiness of her car that bothered me. Then I noticed, dangling from the turn-signal indicator, a red ribbon, like you might win at a fair.
“What’s that?” I asked.
She turned the ribbon in her hand. “I don’t know.”
She drove through the gap in the flood wall at North Main. At the lowest tier of River Park, we stopped and listened as the water slapped against the mud banks. I took casual, sidelong glances at her face. She had a high, blank forehead. I was singularly aware of her body, the radiating waves of heat that registered on my arms and neck. It was terrifying.
After it was dark, she said, “Wouldn’t you like to float down that river?”
It was as though she had pulled the idea from someplace deep inside of me. But I couldn’t find the strength to speak to her.
A car crept by with just its parking lights on. They raked us with a spotlight before driving on.
“Creeps,” Miss Lowe said. She cranked her window down.

“That was the police,” I said.
Miss Lowe turned in her seat. “You’re right.”
“I should probably get home,” I said.
“Right,” Miss Lowe said. “I’d better get you home.”
The town seemed full of strangers all of a sudden. Filing past me in the plaza, they teased me with fragments of sentences. I heard “go” and “leave.” Everywhere I looked I found their unfamiliar faces. Some wore dark suits, like they’d just returned from a funeral, and some had on pants that looked like they were made out of sofa upholstery. I heard “interstate” and “majestic.” I tried to find meaning in their structureless talk. They might have been messengers from the greater world, or they might have been the message. I suppose they could have been there all along.
From the plaza, it was only a ten-minute walk to the [REDACTED] River. I walked along the river’s sun-cracked banks. Wavelets licked at the shore, at the junk that had managed to climb out of the water. Pieces of nylon rope harnessed rafts of rotting sawgrass. Everywhere you saw those white peas, like the eyes of poached fish, broken Styrofoam from beer coolers and those brittle life-preserver rings they sold in drugstores. The senseless meanderings of raccoons and birds were preserved in the mud like an ancient language. The water stank, sometimes of sewage, sometimes of kerosene. The same stuff ran through the pipes in my parents’ house. The greatest surprise in my life was coming across odorless water.
When I thought I’d gone far enough along the relatively clear and open riverbank, I stumbled my way through brambles and briar, knowing full well that I’d likely scare up yellow jackets and mud daubers and possibly cottonmouths. I was unsticking myself from the puckerbrush when I spotted the dark little house. The walls were swollen particleboard. The roof was a sheet of tin held in place with round stones. Tufts of yellow insulation shivered as they registered a breeze. A figure walked out, shirtless and wearing canvas pants. He looked unsteady, as if he’d just woken from a dream. His shoulders were stacked with muscle, but he was soft around the middle. He walked about twenty feet from the house, stopped, tilted his head back, and pissed in the grass.
I turned around and started to pick my way back toward the river.
“Hey,” he called out to me.
If I’d run, he couldn’t have done a thing about it.
“You found me,” Shiloh said.
“I wasn’t looking for you.”
“Bullshit.” It looked like someone had slapped his chest with a wide brush of black paint.
“You really live in there?” I asked, pointing at his house. The front door had scraped clear a half-moon of dark earth. The place was the losing turn in a game of pick-up-sticks.
“You want a tour?”
I shook my head.
“Suit yourself.”
He made a visor with his hand and scanned the panorama.
“You come all the way out here by yourself?”
I said, “It’s a free world.”
“Oh, man,” he said. “I wish you hadn’t told me. I wanted to be surprised when I found out.”
There wasn’t much out there to distract us from each other.
“Want to see something?”
I didn’t give him an answer.
He ducked back inside his place. In the next moment he came out waving a long brass rod. An extension cord trailed from his other hand. He stabbed the rod into the ground, twisting it back and forth to force it deeper. A power cord extended from the top of the rod. He asked me to back up, then he plugged it in. Nothing happened.
“What’s it supposed to do?”
“Give it a second.”
I expected sparks to start leaping off the rod, or maybe it would melt.
Then, just a few inches from where the rod stuck into the earth, a worm came writhing to the surface. Then another and another.
“Cool, huh?” He seemed too old for the expression. Like everything else in his life, I suppose he’d scavenged it from someone else.
He unplugged the device. The worms retreated into the earth. “It makes a great Father’s Day gift.”
My eyes traced the extension cord back inside his place. “How’d you get electricity out here?” I knew he was stealing it. It wouldn’t be too difficult to tap into a street light or a telephone pole, but he’d still need half a mile of extension cords. It was hard to believe.
“I worked out a deal with someone who had access to spools of wire. You are aware there’s another economy, a gray market that exists in response to the insidious capitalist markup?”
“So you basically stole it.”
“I haven’t stolen anything. They were compensated.”
“What did you give them?”
“It just so happens I was able to pay in legal tender, which I had accumulated in exchange for other goods and services.”
“Your paranoia boxes.”
“Disaster scanners and worm prods, this and that.” He coiled up the extension cord and pried the metal rod from the ground.
“Where did you go when you left?” 

“If you can find it on a map, chances are I’ve been there.”
“It doesn’t make any sense.”
“You’re telling me.”
“I mean that you came back here.”
The two of us looked at his bankrupt little house.
“The first thing a bird sees it figures is its mother. Doesn’t matter if it’s a cat or a bicycle. That’s how I feel about the river. I smell that water and I just want to curl up and go to sleep. Tell me it’s different for you.”
I hadn’t made my way down there in order to tell him about myself. Besides, I’d never been away from the river.
“I have to be somewhere, right?” Shiloh said. “The opposite of somewhere is nowhere and I’m not interested in being there.”
“You mean dead?”
“What a strange bird you are, son of Fran.”
I told him my first name.
“Thomas,” he said, “I’m here to rebuild my heart.”
I looked around us, at the silent river, the empty sky. What was wrong with me that drove people to talk like that?
“I should get going.”
“You don’t have to ask my permission. You can go whenever you want. My foremost belief is that a person has the right to do as he or she feels.”
“I wasn’t asking your permission.”
“And if you’d listened you’d know I can’t grant it to you anyway.”
“I’m not the strange bird. You’re the strange bird.”
Shiloh put his hands over his chest. He staggered backward. “You got me,” he said. “I’m wounded.”
I was angry all of a sudden, for walking all the way out there, for his stupid answers, for this feeling inside my chest like an unreachable itch.
“So what is it?” Shiloh asked.
“What is what?” I shouted back.
“The thing that’s driving you crazy.”
In the month after Miss Lowe and I met in town, nothing passed between us but the occasional sly look. Her comments on my papers never revealed a hidden thought. We’d walked up to the edge of something and flinched.
Then warm rains melted [REDACTED] snowpack, causing the [REDACTED] to swell beyond its banks. It didn’t matter that overhead we had clear skies. Public Works employees scrambled about River Park, collecting anything that might wash away—oil-drum ashcans, the sign reminding people to set their parking brakes on the boat ramp, the bases on the baseball field. Every Sunday, when the weather was fine, Baptist congregations gathered in the park, in white nightshirts and cassocks and dresses and trousers, to wade into that turbid murk. Young families backed their station wagons to the water’s edge to eat picnics on the ledges of their tailgates. Now the sewer commission dogged down the overflow pipes, to prevent the rising river from following those passageways into town. Finally, the breaks in the flood wall, at North Main, Clairmont, and River Way, were sealed off with heavy steel plates. For the first time, the town was shut off from the river.

People returned to the downtown. They reclaimed the plaza for their shrieking kids and their yappy dogs. They gathered by the glass wall of City Hall’s rotunda to look out over the flooded land. From that vantage point, Shiloh’s home, way in the distance, looked like the pilothouse of a swamped ship. I hoped that he was still there.
I felt something building in my heart. In the middle of the night, I sneaked out my bedroom window and across town to a squat, Federal-style building. I stood there, without a clue how to proceed, studying the iron stars that wept rust down the side of the brickwork. A window shuddered in its casement. Miss Lowe leaned her head out, one hand on the sill, the other holding back her hair. After a moment, she disappeared inside.
I heard a door open and then she came from around the side of the building. She wore cutoff jeans, a T-shirt, and rubber flip-flops.
“We have to be like a couple of mice,” she said, taking my hand.
The hallway was too narrow for us to walk side by side. I followed the long muscles of her legs as they climbed the linoleum-covered stairs. On the third floor, she pushed through a door into a cramped room filled with milk-colored light.
“Well,” she said, “take a look around.”
The furniture, a sofa and an armchair, was cloaked with white sheets. On one wall, a free calendar from the hardware store hung by a thumbtack. A banker’s gooseneck lamp rested on a card table piled high with books. A blocky school phonograph sat beneath it on the floor.
I said, “This is a nice place, Miss Lowe.”
She wagged her finger in front of me. I understood.
“Alice,” I said.
I wound up in the bathroom; it was like a bathroom on a train, the sink as small as a salad bowl.
“Are you looking for the bedroom?”
A twin bed was tucked into a corner, rainbow-printed sheets peeking out beside two pillows. Her bedside table supported a red-shaded lamp and a windup alarm clock.
We sat on the edge of the bed with our knees touching. Alice showed me a picture of her sister with some guy—the two of them were waving like they were taking off to live on the sun.
“O.K.,” Alice said. “We need to have a conversation.”
Yes, a conversation.
“First of all, are you here on your own accord?”
“Yes,” I said, “I guess.”
She said, “I’m not on the pill.”
I was unprepared.
We went back into her kitchen to kiss. When things got too intense, she boiled water and introduced me to herbal tea. I was ready to swallow any bitter thing. In the drying rack beside the sink I counted a single sponge, a single spoon, a single plate, a juice glass.
"Who’s that ugly cuss?” Pawpaw asked, catching me as I checked my reflection in the bathroom mirror.
“Do I need to shave?”
He pinched my jaw in his bony fingers. He squinted at my bare cheeks. “A kitty cat could lick those off.”
“They’re beginning to come in.”
He stood behind me so our heads were side by side in the mirror. “You know who used to look at himself all the time?”
“Who?”
“Robbie O’Dell.”
My mother’s first husband. All I knew about him, other than the accident, was that he’d worked as a commercial pilot. (“Your mother’s friend flew planes” was how Fran put it.) They’d married straight out of high school. In a single year, Mary and O’Dell had lived in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and West Berlin. Then the accident happened and, as soon as she was released from the hospital, Mary moved back home. She married Fran on a rainy spring day, in a raw-wood gazebo in her parents’ back yard. At his office, Fran kept a favorite picture: my mother, in her wedding dress, leaning against him. Because the rain-soaked ground kept wrenching her heels off, she is barefoot. Fran faces the camera, but his eyes aim up at the rain. Mary smiles with her lips pulled back from her teeth, like she’s about to bite into something.
I couldn’t see that picture without thinking she’d been happy before. I said, “No one ever told me that.”
“You never met someone so in love with his own face.”
I was in the kitchen, watching Mary bone a chicken. She slid the blade under the skin, making quick, jabbing cuts. When the phone rang, Mary indicated it with the point of the greasy knife.
The person on the other end of the line gave me simple instructions.
“Well?” Mary said, after I returned the handset to its cradle.
“I have to go out,” I said. “That was a girl.”
Mary dropped the knife in the sink. “It’s a school night, you know.” She caught me by the shoulder and poked at my bangs with her fingernails. “Comb your hair first.”
I tried to appease her.
“Now you’re making it worse.”
Pawpaw came in from the porch, a cigarette pinched dead in his fingers.
“Ask your grandson what he’s up to.”

• 

• 

• 

• 

“I only came in to run interference for him.” He maneuvered himself between me and Mary. “Scoot, kiddo.”
It dawned on me, as I cut across the yard, that I was about to be dumped. Nothing else could demand such immediacy. I’d visited Alice’s apartment six times. Twice she had cooked me dinner. One time, when she was sick, we sat together on her little sofa. But she’d found the nerve and now it was up to me to put my head on the chopping block. There was some honor to be mined by being complicit. I jogged off, down the center of the street. I didn’t get more than a few blocks before I was winded, but I didn’t let it slow my pace.
Her schoolteacher car bore down on me. The jouncing suspension sent the headlights up and down. She never slowed. At the last moment, I had to dive for the curb.
There was a shrieking sound as she locked up the brakes. The car slid to a stop. She reached across to let me into the passenger seat.
I could barely breathe from running.
“I can’t believe this night,” she said. She’d been crying.
She wore a short corduroy skirt. I had seen her wear it before with fuzzy tights, but now her legs were bare. And her naked legs and the fact that she’d been crying were like two voices competing for my attention.
She ran a stop sign and then another.
I asked her to let me drive.
It was very nice to steer Alice’s car. The wheel was warm where her hands had been. And I wanted to stop, to look at her, but I didn’t think she would tolerate such scrutiny. In order to make the town as big as it could be, I followed the roads that paralleled the flood wall. Some of the seams in the cement seeped black water. The diesel engines powering the bilge pumps made a wall of sound.
I wracked my mind for a place better than this. I could drive her to her sister’s in Chattanooga. Her sister lived with a dentist, Alice had told the class. They had a huge stereo. Their refrigerator housed nothing but leftovers from their favorite restaurants. Right outside their back door was an artificial lake that had been optimized for waterskiing. Taking Alice there might demonstrate my selfless heart. But I didn’t want to stand beside things I couldn’t afford. I didn’t want to be measured against something like that.

Alice lifted my right hand from the steering wheel and pressed it against her cheek. “Do I feel hot to you?”
I held my hand against her forehead, then touched my own forehead. Then I smelled my hand. “I can’t tell.”
“I took some aspirin earlier. I hoped it would make me tired.”
I concentrated on driving in a soothing way.
“I love that car,” Alice said, as we drove past the police station. “It’s like a big black cat.”
She left a space for me to speak. I studied the blank expanse of the flood wall, searching for the thing to say.
Alice leaned the side of her face against the window. And it seemed as if something stood between us, too, something as transparent and unyielding.
I wanted to forgive her for what she was about to do. I felt that big.
She said, “Stop the car.”
The headlights reflected off a shallow puddle that hugged the base of the wall. Alice got out. She stuck her whole fist in her mouth, like a girl at a party trying to get attention.
Poking my head through her open door, I asked if she was O.K.
She nodded and pushed her hand deeper into her mouth. Her eyes were bright. She coughed and coughed. Finally something came up.
I got out of the car and stood beside her.
There was a shiny mess on the pavement—saliva, bile, and small pieces of chalk.
“Is that all aspirin?”
She stuck her hand back in her mouth. She spit up some more. She wiped her eyes with her sleeve. Her hand looked boiled.
We could hear the river sliding past on the other side of the flood wall. We were underneath the water, and dry.
Alice turned to look at me. “I received an upsetting phone call.” Tendrils of hair glued themselves to the corner of her mouth.
Someone had died, I thought. That was it. Someone she loved, maybe. She started shaking. I rubbed a palm against her spine.
“At some point he’s going to make up his mind to come down here.” Alice had left her door ajar and the light inside the car tried to coax us back.
“An old boyfriend?” I asked.
“My ex-husband.”
I don’t remember saying anything, but Alice answered me nevertheless.
“Yes,” she said.
It was an awful revelation, but at least she hadn’t dumped me. And then I realized she might dump me still.
“He threatened me.”
“How did he threaten you?” My voice was as empty as a parrot’s.
“He occupies the moral high ground.” She walked away from the car. If we walked far enough, we’d end up back where we started—the flood wall would see to that.
“Did you cheat on him?” I asked.
“He would have preferred that. No, I decided I’d had enough. We’d been together three years and I couldn’t bear the idea of another day with him. While he was off at work, I loaded all my things in my car. I taped a note to the bathroom mirror. But when I went outside, he was there.”
“You mean he was waiting for you?”
“He said he’d seen something in my eyes.”
I was jealous of anyone who knew her well enough to interpret her veiled intentions.
“He demanded an explanation. I had my keys in my hand, Thomas. I couldn’t wait to leave. He snatched the keys and crammed them in his mouth. I guess he tried to swallow them. They got caught. He started coughing. I went inside and called an ambulance. I waited by the front door. A pair of police cars rolled up. By then he was curled up in the yard. The officers made sure he was breathing. They were ready to stab his neck with their tracheotomy kits. Then an ambulance arrived and the paramedics loaded him in back.”
I said, “I’m sorry.”
“I did everything I could to make it work, Thomas. But I saved myself. I can be cruel when I need to be now; that’s what I learned from him. I took the spare set of keys and I left.”
All along, in her empty apartment and her empty car, he had been the thing that was missing.
“Do you think he might show up?”
“I told him not to.”
It was clear to me that that would not be sufficient. Given the choice between not seeing her and seeing her displeasure, there was no choice. I didn’t know much about love, but I knew this.
Alice said, “I want to go somewhere he can’t find me.” She turned the pockets of her skirt inside out.
“What are you looking for?” I asked.
She didn’t seem to hear me.
After tucking her pockets back in, she reached over and took my hand. “Gum,” she said.
“I’d protect you from him,” I said.
“Maybe you would.”
I thought, I’ll go with you, with nothing but the clothes on my back. Later you may run from me. If someone else is there to save you, it will fall on you to give that person some accounting of who I was. That will be your obligation. And though it’s hardly possible, I would like to be that next person, too. I would like to save you over and over again. That’s the type of life I wanted to lead when I was seventeen. We continued walking. Our shoulders bumped together. I lifted her hand and kissed it. “Do that again,” she said. I kissed her hand again. It was a long walk back to the car. 

