A MOUTHFUL OF CUT GLASS
By Tessa Hadley

The house where Neil was born, in 1952, had been at the center of [REDACTED], in a Victorian slum that was knocked down a few years later. Nobody lived there now; there were only roads and office blocks, and the people who’d lived in the slums had been moved out to the new estates that ringed the city. Neil told Sheila that the house he was born in had had a crack in the outside wall that let the rain and wind through, so that for the years he lived there he and his sister had had to sleep in his mum and dad’s room, because they couldn’t use the bedroom upstairs. His sister had slept in a cot until she was six; he had slept in the bed with his parents. He told Sheila that the house had shared a yard at the back with several other houses in the terrace; there were outside toilets and a brick washhouse with a coal-fired boiler and a mangle where the women did their laundry. The house had been condemned by the council the whole time he lived there, but the family had had to wait for the authorities to find them somewhere else to live.
At university in [REDACTED] in 1972, Neil didn’t have to be ashamed of these things or hide them. Because of the politics of the time, the student politics especially, his origins were even glamorous. It was the children of bankers and managing directors who had to apologize for their upbringing, and practice roughening their too refined accents. Sheila had grown up, with eight brothers and sisters, in a vicarage in [REDACTED]; vicars’ daughters were in a category so impossibly quaint and comical that it hardly seemed worth despising.
Neil could have played on his working-class credentials much more than he did. Sheila had never heard him tell anyone else, for instance, about the crack in the wall. This reserve, like a strength withheld, was part of what made her love him quite desperately. He was very clever and he had absolute opinions; friends glanced quickly at him after they spoke, to see what he thought. Sheila had never expected to love someone who was two inches shorter than she was. It was a surprise to discover how her desire could attach itself to the aura of Neil’s power and not to the particulars of his face and body, which in her mental picture of him were always blurred. Although he wasn’t fat, he was rather soft and shapeless; his walk was shambling and he hid behind his long brown hair. When he pushed the hair back, his face was round, sweet like a girl’s. Yet just the thought of the quick, small, almost prim smile that flickered open in his expression when he was amused made Sheila sick with longing; it touched her more nakedly even than when he made love to her, because he did that with irony, holding himself back.
In the autumn of her second year, Neil took her home for a weekend to meet his family. He hadn’t been especially keen to do this. He’d warned her that she would be bored, that his parents would make a big fuss, but Sheila had wheedled at him until he gave way. His family didn’t have a telephone; he left a message with the neighbors. She braced herself then for something dark and raw, something that differed definitively from her own past. Whenever she remembered the vicarage she felt coilings of shame at the meanness of her life there. For all her family’s crowded closeness, neither her parents nor her siblings were any good at intimacy; they communicated in evasive codes, fumbling and deflecting contact. She prepared a perfect openness for her visit to Neil’s home, ready to offer up her real self at last.
They caught a bus from the coach station out to Northfield and then walked up through the estate. Rows of low gray houses curved behind open grass spaces, their front doors all painted the same red. Children were playing in the streets. A man was cutting a hedge with shears in a front garden. The place wasn’t pretty, exactly, but it was neat and respectable. This took Sheila by surprise. She realized that although she knew that Neil’s family had moved out of the slums when he was a child, she had gone on imagining him pressed upon by frowning Victorian concentrations of population.
Neil seemed relaxed enough; she had been afraid that her difference might embarrass him on his home ground. She’d expected him to move more self-consciously here, where he might be known and recognized, but he didn’t lift his head to look out for old friends or greet them. He must have walked these streets with the same absorption as a schoolboy, all those years when he was taking the bus seven miles every day to the grammar school in town, where he’d got a free place, with the briefcase that his parents had proudly bought for him, full of the books that were going to educate him out of the estate.
“Clover Close,” he said merrily. “Grassymead Lane. Oak Grove. Hazelbush Way. You’d almost think you were in the Forest of Arden if you closed your eyes. Except that real country addresses never sound anything like that. The test is if the name is as plain as possible, then you know it’s the real thing. The ruling classes live in places called Old Hall. Stone House. Long End. The Rectory.”
Sheila’s home was called the Rectory, and it was in the country, but nowhere like the Forest of Arden. It was in a bleak, poor village in East Anglia, where the red brick rectory was the grandest building after the church. Neil had said once that his dad, who was a tool-setter at Lucas Engineering, probably earned more than hers; she had no idea if he was right.
Neil’s dad, Dennis, stood waiting for them in his shirtsleeves and braces at the front door, which was on the side of the house, opening onto the kitchen. He was compact and smiling, with a round face and thick peachy skin, rosy where the blood vessels were broken across his cheeks; his springy gray-black hair was slicked back with Brylcreem. He had the air of a man used to performing a comical role, pleasant and placating. When Neil’s mother, May, came crowding behind him in the doorway, wiping her hands on a tea towel, Sheila saw that she was small, too; Neil overtopped them both. Sheila was going to be the tallest person in the house.
“All right, son?” Neil’s father grinned at him. “You can still find your way back home, then? Which bus did you get?”
He held out a disproportionately huge hand to shake Sheila’s, and although he touched her with scrupulous gentleness she felt the strength in his grip. When Neil explained which bus they’d taken and how it had wound slowly around another estate for forty minutes, his father shook his head in disbelief: the eccentricity of the buses was clearly an old comfortable joke. In [REDACTED], Neil would have scorned such small talk. May, hanging back, kept her hands wrapped in the tea towel, nodding and smiling shyly; she had a miniature figure like a doll’s, with skinny little-girl legs gauche under her short skirt. Sandwiches made from sliced white bread, cut into perfect triangles, were set out on a counter on two plates, covered with paper torn from bread wrappers.

“I said not to make a fuss,” Neil said to his mother, helping himself to a sandwich; May in a darting movement slapped at his hand, scolding him. “It’s all right,” he said, reassuring her. “Sheila hasn’t got any manners, either.”
May blushed and couldn’t look at Sheila. “Don’t take any notice of him,” she said apologetically. “I don’t.”
Sheila heard now that Neil’s [REDACTED] accent, which she had thought so strong, was softened and compromised, compared with the way his parents spoke.
“She’ll have cooked us a meal, too,” Neil warned. “This is just to tide us over.”
“I thought after your journey you’d want something. Shall I put the kettle on for tea?”
The kitchen was too small to sit down in, so Neil and Sheila drank their tea on a sofa in the living room, in front of the gas fire turned up high. Sheila was so eager to please that she ate all the sandwiches on her plate, though she didn’t know how she was going to manage anything else. The shoe-box-shaped room was a little gem of neatness. There were antimacassars along the back of the sofa and on the back of every chair, a glass-fronted cabinet full of ornaments, framed photographs on the tiled mantelpiece of Neil and his sister, Chris, of Chris’s wedding. Neil had told Sheila that every Friday after his mother came back from her job at the bakery she stacked the furniture and rolled up all the carpets to wash the floor underneath.
“Are you at the college with our Neil then, Sheila?” his father asked.
Sheila was surprised that Neil hadn’t told them more about her. She didn’t talk to her parents much, but she was sure that they knew at least where Neil came from and what subject he was reading.
She explained that she was reading classics, Latin and Greek.
“Very interesting,” Dennis said. “Veni, vidi, vici.”
“All that stuff. It’s the Greeks that I love. Revenge and passion, the war between the sexes, justice on earth. Of course, it’ll be no use to anyone after I’ve finished, but I don’t care. My dad read classics, too, so it’s in the family, I suppose.”
“It’s brewing that’s in mine,” Neil’s mother said with a quick laugh. Sheila knew that May’s uncle and brothers worked at Davenports, the brewers; they had got Neil a job there over the summer.
Neil ate only a couple of sandwiches, then he got out his cigarettes.
“Go on, have one of mine, son,” his mother said, pushing a pack of Embassy Regals at him. “Do you smoke, Sheila?”
Sheila didn’t. But she saw the moment of closeness it made between mother and son, heads bent together over the lighter, eyes narrowed and cheeks hollowed in inhalation. May had a little chrome-and-Formica smoking table at her end of the sofa, with an ashtray fixed in the center on a metal stalk. Although Neil’s face was round like his father’s, the wary sharpness in it made him resemble his mother more. Like Neil, May glanced evasively sideways at whomever she was speaking to. In his teen-age years, Sheila knew, Neil’s mother had been his confidante, talking late into the night with him and his friends when he brought them home. She seemed more assured with the cigarette in her hand; a social manner descended on her, mildly rakish and teasing.
“I tried to get him to put something decent on, because you were coming.” May nodded at her husband. “But he goes his own way.”
“She’s not bothered,” Dennis said. “Are you, Sheila?”
“I’m so glad you didn’t.” Sheila smiled at them. “Look at us. We’re a real mess. We don’t want you to do anything different from what you do usually. Please.”
She wondered what they thought of her clothes, a long crimson Indian skirt with braid around the hem and a crushed-velvet top embroidered with mirrors: these might be their idea of disgraceful rags. She hoped that her looks worked for her, though: her pale skin and long curling red-brown hair. She knew that Dennis was paying her subtle, harmless attentions because of them, without even knowing that he was doing it: spooning sugar into her tea and smoothing the creases out of her coat when he hung it up.
“You’re right about Neil. He is a right mess. What about that hair? What does he think he looks like?” Dennis broke out suddenly.
“Oh, leave him alone,” May said. “Why shouldn’t he have it how he wants? That’s how they all wear it now.”
Neil smiled to himself: that private irrepressible smile of his, as if he couldn’t help being delighted at some comedy he was watching. Dennis didn’t seem to mean his complaint to offend anyone. He was a joker, an entertainer. You could see that he was the one to confront the public world, sheltering May, who had been brought up in an orphanage after her mother died and her father abandoned the family. Dennis took care to mention this more than once, as if the injustice of it still rankled with him.
“Sheila lives in a rectory,” Neil offered. “Her dad’s a vicar in [REDACTED].”
“That’s nice,” May said.
Sheila wanted to tell them about the rectory: how it was actually cold and bare and full of worn, scuffed furniture, not nearly as comfortable as this cozy room. But she didn’t, because she was afraid they wouldn’t believe her, and would think that she was patronizing them, trying to put them at ease because she found their home so poor.
May and Dennis got out photographs from a coach trip they had taken to [REDACTED]. Before university, Neil had gone with them on these trips. He had explained to Sheila how, now that so many holidaymakers were going abroad, the big old country hotels that had once been exclusively for the wealthy had begun to cater to working-class coach parties. She tried to imagine Neil spending his days with a coachload of middle-aged Brummies, set apart by his youth and education, flirted with by the older women, thinking his own thoughts, taking an informed interest in all the places they visited. She found the idea seductive. He had certainly travelled more widely in [REDACTED] than she ever had, and knew more about its history.
In the photographs, Dennis was usually at the center, posed against some monument or other. Sheila was surprised that he and May relished so uncritically the grand style of their holiday: the food, the thick carpets, the ballrooms, the chandeliers, the free whisky at the distillery tour, the free soap in the bathrooms. She had expected that they would despise the luxuries of the rich, as she and Neil did. She felt a mixture of relief and deflation, as if she’d been cheated of something she’d braced herself to take on: some intensity of engagement, both scorching and testing. This is going to be easy, she thought. After all, they’re just easy sweet people.
They put Sheila in Chris’s old bedroom, in a bed made up with nylon sheets and the same rough old Army blankets her mother had at home. There wasn’t much evidence of Chris left in the room: a framed embroidered picture of a squirrel, a hollow soapstone swan with a couple of hair grips in it on the dressing table. May assured Sheila that there was plenty of hot water because the immersion heater had been on all evening, but although Sheila rather longed for a bath, she didn’t want to keep everybody waiting for the bathroom. She cleaned her teeth quickly. Everything in here was scoured spotless. The only difference between May’s cheap thin towels and bathmat and the ones at home was that these had been cherished and ironed.

Sheila undressed and slithered down between cold sheets, then lay awake listening to the life of the house subside—low-voiced exchanges of practicalities, the sound of a bolt being shot to. She imagined that she was hearing what Neil had heard all his life before he came to [REDACTED]. She was in that phase of the relationship where everything associated with Neil seemed to her charged with excitement, even the smell of the clothes he took off and left lying on the floor, even his favorite tracks on albums that she would never have chosen for herself, the Grateful Dead and Captain Beefheart. She couldn’t sleep. After a while, when everything was quiet, she pushed back the sheets and knelt on the bed in her nightdress, looking out the window at the orange sodium lights and a flare of fire somewhere, perhaps from a factory chimney. Nearby she could make out the silhouetted dome of the lunatic asylum, which Neil had pointed out when he showed her the room—built in the nineteenth century in what had then been countryside. The air was chilly on her shoulders. The little house seemed to drop very quickly into cold once the gas fire was out, as if the walls were only a thin skin between the night and the lives inside.
She pressed down the handle on the bedroom door very carefully, then crept along the landing, trying not to make any sound on the lino with her bare feet. She knew which room was Neil’s—she had looked into it earlier and seen his few books on a shelf, the only books in the house, and the old card table where he had done his homework for all those years. She slipped inside and soundlessly closed the door behind her. Neil reared up in bed; in the light from the street lamps she could see the mound of the blankets around his shoulders. Sheila cuddled quickly in beside him. She had let herself get thoroughly chilled, sitting looking out the window; now the heat of his body against hers under the blankets was like a flood. To her surprise he was wearing pajamas, which he never did in [REDACTED]; they smelled of his mother’s washing.
He hissed a protest at her frozen feet. “What are you doing?” he whispered in perplexity, grasping her by the shoulder. “We can’t do that here.”
“I can’t sleep,” she complained. “I miss you.”
She pressed herself close against the length of him, kissing his neck and his ears, trying to undo his pajama buttons. He pushed her off.
“Sh-h-h. You can hear everything in this house. They’ll know.”
“We could be so quiet.”
“No.”
“Then just let me sleep here. I’ll go back in the morning.”
“They’ll know. Honestly. Believe me.”
“O.K. Let me stay for ten minutes.”
To show that he was sorry, he kissed her then, but warily, not wanting to be carried away into anything. Their mouths tasted of meat, from May’s casserole, which Sheila had eaten even though she was a vegetarian. With her lips she felt the growth of beard on Neil’s jawbone, not bristling but silky; he was giving out his kisses one by one, skeptically, like a bird pecking. This tension of thwarted longing—even when they were on their own and could do whatever they liked—was somehow the whole character of their relationship. Sheila was always frantic for the next thing she didn’t have from Neil; the sensation was as painful as wire spooled taut in her chest. She wondered sometimes what would become of them if the spool gave way and the tension slackened. After a while he stopped kissing her, and she knew that he really wasn’t going to let her stay.
On the landing on the way back to her room, she heard May and Dennis talking in their bedroom. That was good; it meant that they weren’t lying awake listening to her move about. She took a couple of cautious steps and stood where she might be able to catch what they were saying. She had never had any compunction about eavesdropping, or reading other people’s letters or diaries; at home, with so many brothers and sisters, a certain level of surveillance had been almost necessary for survival—unless you sneaked, you never learned what was going on. Anyway, she always trusted herself to understand whatever she found out.
She couldn’t really hear May and Dennis. May was angry about something. Dennis was soothing her: he rumbled, reasonable, sympathetic. They were both suppressing their voices, naturally, in this house of thin walls. May’s tone was different from the one she’d used all evening: hard and final. Sheila knew at once that this must be her real voice, the one she used with people she was comfortable with.
“How can I talk to her?” Sheila heard May say then, quavering suddenly louder. “With that accent like a mouthful of cut glass?”
Sheila’s heart heaved: the thud was so strong she even imagined that Dennis and May had heard it, until he rumbled again and she knew she was safe. It serves you right, she told herself immediately, not knowing quite what it was that she had deserved, or what for.
Back in bed, she lay huddled with her knees pulled up inside her nightdress, the taste of the casserole meat rising from her stomach. She was going over the work that she had to do for the following week: a Latin prose translation, an essay on Medea. But as she fell into sleep she recognized all of a sudden that May had muddled two quite separate expressions. How stupid, Sheila thought. It has to be either “talking through a mouthful of plums” or “an accent like cut glass.” Not “a mouthful of cut glass.” She’s made nonsense of it.
For a moment, however, she could imagine the sensation of chewing politely and sufferingly on a mouthful of broken crystal, tasting salty blood.
Neil came to the rectory for a few days after Christmas. Sheila never quite got over the surprise of his being there, where he didn’t belong, among the leftbehind scenes of her childhood. She knew that she was reacting badly to the situation—as if she were blinking into a light that distracted her from seeing him fairly. She was irritated when he seemed to get along with her parents. At supper the first night, he talked with her father about the Knox family; Sheila’s family—the Culverts—was distantly related to them. A Culvert had been one of the first Evangelical bishops to be ordained in the Church of England: the old, sober kind of Evangelical, of course, not the new, guitar-playing excitable kind. Neil knew about the Ronald Knox translation of the Bible because his mother had been brought up a Catholic, and because he knew about so many things. Reverend Culvert told him about the Roman earthenware found in the scrubland, close to the river that the villagers called the Ditch; and about the carved flints that lay about in the fields for picking up. He sputtered mashed potato and gesticulated with pleasure at having someone informed to talk to. His own children kept their intellectual interests strictly apart from family mealtimes; they were embarrassed if their father ever veered from his habitual ironic distance. He was a tall thin man, whose head with its long earlobes was austere in repose, as if it were carved out of hard ancient wood; to see him so boyishly eager was somehow compromising, like watching a tortoise bob its skinny neck out from the decency of its shell.

Sheila was aware of how gratifying it was to her father that someone like Neil, who came from a working-class background, should be doing so well. The Reverend, despite the disappointments he was daily faced with—the sullen village boys, their cursing, their fatalism—kept up, in the solitude of his study, at least, a whole set of hopeful ideals that had to do with justice and progress. Sheila winced when he gleamed with pleased surprise at Neil’s intelligent comments. She and her siblings had grown up with a horror that their father might sometime make a sermon out of the things that they did, or that happened to them. Sheila’s mother, peculiar and ravaged, was simply grateful that the conversation didn’t require her dutiful bolstering; she bowed her head low over her plate to eat, while the children exchanged veiled glances. The boys were horrible mimics: they would be mentally rehearsing Neil’s accent. The gammon was too salty, and the parsley sauce had been made from a packet; Sheila ate only the mash and the [REDACTED] sprouts. Her mother’s cooking was loveless and institutional. An old book of fine recipes in French—a wedding present—sat unopened on a shelf above the kitchen stove, its pages gummed together by the steam from hundreds of pans of boiling potatoes.
“How can you not see how awful they are?” Sheila hissed to Neil the next day when she took him on a walk to get away from the house. They set out along the flank of the wide shallow valley, into a freezing wind that rippled the slate-colored water standing on the clay in the valley bottom, where the Ditch had overflowed. “They’re so dried up, so false. Nothing they say is ever real.”
He shrugged. “We all have to deal with things we don’t like about our parents. At least yours don’t make remarks about West Indians being too lazy to work and wanting to sit all day with a string tied round their big toe, fishing in the creek.”
“I wish they would,” Sheila said gloomily. “Does your dad really believe that?”
“Didn’t he treat you to his Al Jolson impression?”
“But don’t you see how sickening the opposite thing is, too? Always having to be up on the moral high ground. We actually have a family abbreviation for it, you know: the M.H.G. Mum shouts it when the kids are quarrelling: ‘M.H.G! Back down and take the M.H.G!’ Sometimes the whole family goes berserk—I can’t tell you. My brother Andrew—the one who left home—once stabbed Stephen with a fork. He was shouting at him, ‘Cunt, cunt, cunt!’ Dad was trying to separate them, Mum was threatening to call the police. Then that evening when it had all died down we were just sitting around the table again, eating boiled liver or something, pretending that nothing had happened. ‘Almighty God, who hast given us grace at this time.’ ”
Neil laughed.
“You closed your eyes when he prayed at the table last night,” she said accusingly.
“Did I? No, I didn’t.”
Sheila was walking backward ahead of him along the path, in her eagerness to convey to him the truth about her parents. The wind on her back whipped her hair across her face from under her knitted hat. Mrs. Culvert had insisted that Neil, who didn’t own a hat, borrow some awful thing from the tallboy in the hall which no one could remember ever wearing, a kind of bonnet with a furry lining and earflaps; it changed him piquantly, into a beady-eyed, perky cartoon animal. He seemed more interested in the landscape than in Sheila’s family. He asked her the names of places they could see, which she didn’t always know; he couldn’t believe that she had lived here all her life and wasn’t sure where north was. They reached a stand of beech trees growing on a slope about a mile from the village. Among the trees, the wind that had blown so insistently against them dropped, and they stopped to recover their equilibrium on a muffling carpet of dried leaves. The smooth trunks of the trees surging up out of the earth seemed present and intelligent, like gray beasts standing soberly to watch them. A musky mushroomy perfume rose in the stillness from the mulch underfoot. Neil put his arms around Sheila and kissed her; the embrace felt comical and unsexual through their bulky layers of jumpers, coats, and scarves.
“I could put my coat on the ground,” Neil said insinuatingly into her neck, his earflaps scratching her chin. “It would be nice to cuddle up.”
“You’re joking,” Sheila said in horror. “In broad daylight?”
Needless to say, at the rectory they were sleeping separately: Sheila was in her old room with her sister Hilary; Neil was in with Anthony and Stephen. “I feel awful,” Mrs. Culvert had mumbled, not looking at Neil, bobbing her thick shock of gray hair and apologizing for there being no spare room that he could have to himself. “What you must think. . . . Of course we should—five bedrooms. Don’t know if Sheila’s told you about Gillian’s problems?” (Gillian, who was eight, was epileptic, and had difficulty coping with school. She was seeing a psychiatrist in [REDACTED]; apparently she needed her own room. “Which makes me think she’s smarter than she looks,” Sheila had said.)
“We’re out in the countryside,” Neil said to Sheila, nuzzling her. “There’s no one to see.”
“That just shows how much you know about the countryside.” She pushed him away from her with both gloved hands. “Everyone will know that we’re up here already. If we don’t walk on soon, they’ll be looking at their watches.”
“Who cares?” he said, trying again.
“I do,” she said passionately. “Don’t spoil this place for me. It’s somewhere I used to come to be by myself when I was a girl, when I couldn’t bear any of them at home. It’s holy to me. I used to read poetry here.”
Neil couldn’t argue with that, and so they moved on, faintly mutually resentful long after they’d resumed holding hands and talking. In fact, Sheila had somewhat misrepresented the significance of the beech grove. She had used to go there with Hilary; she would never have gone walking anywhere around here on her own. It was true, though, that she and her sister had sometimes brought their books to the grove with them, and had worked themselves up over what they were reading into states of exalted excitement.
When they had all eaten their cauliflower cheese that evening, Mrs. Culvert suggested unexpectedly that they play games.
“We always do at Christmas,” she explained to Neil. “Family tradition . . . no television. With you here we’ve got new blood, so to speak.”
Neil was fairly appalled at the idea, and no one else seemed keen, but somehow when the washing up was done they nonetheless assembled to play in the front room, the girls snuggled around the meek warmth of the storage heater, with their jumpers pulled down over their hands, the boys erupting into spasms of kicking on the broken-backed sofa. Mrs. Culvert carried armfuls of props downstairs for charades and dumped them triumphantly in a heap: a fur coat, a parasol, straw boaters, an inflatable rubber ring for the beach, an air-raid warden’s helmet, dog leashes, an evening dress of crinkled green Fortuny silk, a croquet mallet. The Reverend, in magnanimous concession, poured glasses of fizzy cider for everyone but the three youngest children.

Poor Neil was out of his depth. He had never played charades before, and he was hopeless at it. His team acted “Eucharist,” and for “ewe” they dressed him up as a shepherd in a stripy flannelette sheet with a crook left over from someone’s Nativity play. Nola and Patricia frisked around his feet, baaing, while Hilary, who was usually earnest and silent, followed on all fours, wrapped in a sheepskin rug from the study. Neil made no effort to get into the role of the shepherd; he batted uncomfortably at the girls with his crook and almost ruined everything by mumbling pointedly, “And here’s the ewe,” when Hilary appeared.
The Culverts threw themselves into these games, once they got started, with an extravagance that was almost a mania. For “wrist,” Reverend Culvert put on the green silk dress and minced up and down with his wife’s handbag, drooping his wrist and exclaiming, “Dear me, ducky.” Neil looked frankly astonished. He wasn’t much better at guessing, either. Hilary and her father got Sheila’s team’s word—“seductress”—long before Neil did; they held back to give him a chance, and he stared miserably, bemusedly, at Mrs. Culvert’s egg-laying (“Poultry?” he ventured), and at Stephen as a hairdresser perming Anthony’s blond nylon wig. Sheila, acting the whole word in the finale, in her father’s silk dressing gown and a pair of old high heels, was languidly seductive as Neil had never seen her: husky-voiced, rolling her hips, adjusting her stocking, letting the dressing gown fall open when she sat down, smoothing her perfectly shaped long legs. She patted a place beside her on the sofa for her mother, dressed as a shy boy, in tails with a top hat and cane, a mustache drawn with a black mascara brush on her upper lip; she pulled the boy over by his tie to kiss her. Neil was dismayed to feel strong stirrings of desire as he watched.
“Never mind!” Mrs. Culvert said to him consolingly when the game was over and they all sat flushed and panting among the disregarded heaps of costumes and props, bubbling weakly with smiles and shamed giggles at what they had done. Mrs. Culvert still had her mustache. “Awfully silly, really,” she said. “You’ll get the hang of it next time.”
The next morning, Sheila and Hilary walked up the shortcut through the garden on their way back from buying hair dye at the shop in the village; Sheila was determined to do something with Hilary’s mousy hair. The shortcut meant that they had to plow through dead weeds and brambles at the long garden’s bottom end. A wet mist, like sticky grubby wool, was still clinging to the earth at ten o’clock, and their trousers were almost immediately soaked to the knees, the water seeping through their desert boots to their socks. They tugged at the naked branches of a silver birch overhead to drench each other thoroughly, squealing in the shower of drops. For the first time, Sheila experienced a rush of strong feeling for her home and her past, a tenderness for the winter garden’s desolation. The same gray, sodden dishcloths had been left hanging for months on the washing line. A plastic bucket was half filled with rotting apples from the trees. Children’s trikes and an old pedal car had been left out to rot, too. Everything in the flower beds had overgrown and died, and now the silky seed heads and swollen blackened pods, slashed down by wind and rain, lay dissolving into the earth.
The daylight was so grudging that the lamp was turned on in the vicar’s study. The sisters had often watched their father from out here, as he rehearsed his sermons or conducted symphonies on the gramophone, thinking nobody could see him. Neil had found some LPs that Andrew had left behind, and Reverend Culvert, who was visiting elderly parishioners in hospital this morning, had said at breakfast that he could play them in the study if he wanted to. Through the French windows, the girls could see him sitting cross-legged on the floor, smoking, his hair falling forward across his face. He was swaying his head in time to a song they couldn’t hear: rock music, Frank Zappa probably, nothing that the dusty old study with its walls of books had ever been treated to before. (Andrew had had his own hi-fi, which he had taken away with him.) Hilary couldn’t help bursting out with a snort of laughter.
“I’m sorry, Shuggs, but he does look funny.”
“It’s all right,” Sheila said. “I know he does.”
She was taken aback by this stranger of hers, ensconced so outrageously in the innermost sanctum of her family home. The shock of it was voluptuous; she felt with a shudder that the closer Neil came to her, the less familiar he was. She would have liked to see her life as he saw it, stripped of its ordinariness; she wished that she could possess him as he only was when he was alone. She heard a soft thud and a rattle of glass; Neil heard it, too, from inside the room and turned his head. Hilary had picked out one of the tiny half-rotten apples from the bucket and pitched it at the study windows, dropping to hide herself behind a stretch of overgrown wall where there had once been a greenhouse. When Neil looked away again, she stood up to pitch another one; Sheila joined in. Neil got to his feet. It must have been difficult, with the light on, for him to see them in the murky day outside. He came over and peered through the French windows and they threw apples at him, not bothering in the end to hide, standing out in the gray daylight as he watched them, hurling all the apples at him, one after another, until they reached a layer of impossibly mushy ones at the very bottom of the bucket. 

