ALONG THE HIGHWAYS
By Nick Arvin


The two people inside the convertible—the combination of the two of them together—had the appearance of an illusion. Graham switched lanes to follow them through a left turn. The top was down, and he watched the mouth of the driver, Doug, open and close, and watched the passenger, Lindsey, nod and laugh. The wind fidgeted with her hair, and her gaze lingered on Doug’s opening and closing face with warm, inexplicable intimacy. For the first several miles, Graham pursued them through the crowded, car-clogged suburbs of [REDACTED] only to corroborate what he was seeing, to verify his sanity.
Graham had been going home after a late, solitary lunch, returning without hurry to an empty apartment. He preferred to do things in an unhurried way, not out of any particular philosophy but because hurry was to him unseemly. He had studied computer science in college, and he liked the work that had followed, because he could sit at a computer and develop and debug code, while everything disappeared for eight or ten or twelve hours. It pleased him that a day could be got through so neatly. He liked things to be tidy. His apartment was furnished with fine, clean things that he had purchased from the catalogues he stored in stainless-steel racks beside his toilet. He liked to dress better than those around him—not difficult in his profession—and he liked to drink better beer and wine, to eat better cheese. He liked not to flaunt these things but to enjoy them privately and enjoy their betterness.
He was thin and bald, and sometimes (but not now, in the car) he wore a brown felt fedora with a silk band which he had found in his grandfather’s attic. He knew it was anachronistic and perhaps made him look a little eccentric, but it covered his baldness, about which he was self-conscious.
He had always been socially awkward. Much of life seemed to happen at a kind of observational remove from him. Only uncertainty consistently expressed itself directly.
The convertible was a no-longer-new forest-green Mustang with a bumper sticker that said “Buckle Up! It Makes It Harder for the Aliens to Suck You Out.” Doug was driving, and this was normal, because the convertible was Doug’s. Doug was a big, affable, bearded man with a pouchy stomach; in time, inevitably, he would come to resemble a Santa Claus. Sometimes people called him Doug Dog, or Dougie Dog-Dog, or another variation. He was Graham’s friend, and Graham had often seen him in this convertible.
The surprising thing was Lindsey’s presence in the passenger seat. As they passed chain restaurants and warehouse-style stores scattered like islands in parking-lot seas, Graham watched Doug stop at a light, reach out, and put his arm around Lindsey. She turned and leaned toward him. Doug kissed her briefly, casually, on the forehead.
“Oh,” Graham said. He removed his hands from the steering wheel and gripped the armrests on either side of him. Then the light changed, and he took hold of the steering wheel again.
He followed them onto northbound I-75, staying at a distance, trying to keep a couple of cars between himself and the convertible. The afternoon traffic was thick with weekenders, vehicles pulling boats, Jet Skis, dirt bikes. For a few miles, Graham hid behind a tall, white, box-shaped R.V., popping out now and again to check for Doug’s car, until the R.V. proved to be too slow and he had to pass. The radio station he was listening to grew fussy with static, and he switched it off.
Lindsey had been married to Graham’s brother, Franklin. Graham and Franklin had been born less than a year apart; every April there was a week and a half during which they were the same age. As boys, they were sometimes taken for twins, although in adolescence Franklin grew both taller and fatter. Over the years, Graham had never lived more than a few miles from Franklin. Graham programmed computers; Franklin sold computers. Their relationship had been a quiet, calm one; neither of them was inclined by nature or upbringing to loud displays of emotion, although Graham had to acknowledge that Franklin tended to be a little more at ease in a conversation than he was. After Franklin married, they had grown apart slightly—Graham had understood that Franklin needed to make Lindsey his priority. But he regularly visited Franklin and Lindsey at home, to watch a ballgame, say, or a movie, or perhaps to help with painting a room or digging postholes for a garden fence. Lindsey had usually sent Graham home with food in his hands—a loaf of zucchini bread, a casserole in Tupperware. On summer weekends, the three of them had sometimes driven together to Lindsey’s parents’ place on a lake up north, Graham napping in the back seat with his hat pulled down over his eyes, thinking of the sound of the water under the little wooden pier, the slow chug of the aluminum-hulled bass boat. He liked the companionship of the ride nearly as much as being at the lake. Once when he was walking across the lawn to the cottage with Lindsey, she had taken him by the hand. “I’m glad Franklin has you for a brother. You’re very important to him,” she’d said. Graham had appreciated the gesture; she understood, he thought, that he and Franklin were unlikely to express such sentiments directly. He also sensed, in the thought behind the gesture, her own fondness for him. It occurred to him that if Franklin had not met her first he might have liked to marry Lindsey himself.
One day, Franklin began complaining of headaches. An MRI revealed a tumor the size and shape of the mouse that Graham gripped and clicked each day at work. Two weeks later, while everyone was still talking about how he could beat this thing, Franklin entered a coma, and with tubes in his nose and arms, his head shaved bald and stitched like a baseball, he quickly slipped through the coma down into death.
When Graham left the hospital for the last time, he felt as if a city inside him had been destroyed by an enormous silent conflagration, leaving a landscape of ash, char, and teetering half-structures. He spent the rest of the day drinking cheap gin alone, not stirring from his sofa except to go to the bathroom. But even as he sat with his gin the behavior seemed absurd to him. Alcohol never brought him any satisfaction, only the feeling of his skull contracting a little too snugly around his brain.
Looking back, he had a sense that his public response to his brother’s death had been inadequate. Somehow he had never managed to tell anyone at work that his brother had died. He had not cried. He had told Doug about Franklin’s passing the day after it happened, and Doug had said, “I’m really sorry.” He had waited, as if expecting Graham to say more, but, while various thoughts turned slowly in Graham’s head, none urged expression. A week later, Doug asked intently, “How are you doing?” Graham said he was O.K. He hadn’t been thinking of his brother right then, and when Doug’s real meaning occurred to him, a minute later, it seemed awkward to circle back.

Several weeks had passed before Graham arrived at Lindsey’s house—no longer Franklin and Lindsey’s house—with a bouquet, determined to express himself on one thing at least. Lindsey smiled, said, “Thank you, Graham.” She carried the flowers to the kitchen sink to cut the stems. The kitchen carpet was khaki-colored and knobbly, the kitchen table was made of big, scarred pieces of wood; it was all just as it had been when Franklin was alive. She did not keep a very neat kitchen—dishes were mounded in the sink, and scraps littered the cutting board on the counter—but Graham tried not to notice. “It’s hard to believe,” he said, “that Franklin won’t come downstairs any minute and offer a drink.”
“Would you like a drink?”
“No. Not really.”
“You’d like Franklin to be here to offer you one.”
“Yes.”
“It’s unbelievable, isn’t it?” she said. “I still can’t believe it.”
They talked for a while of Graham’s mother, who had fainted during the funeral; of the funeral-home director’s crooked teeth; of a cousin’s car that had overheated during the procession; of the weather, which was unseasonably cool. Lindsey had a short neck capped by a little head and a swarm of thick, curly hair. When she was sitting, her belly puffed into a small pillow between her breasts and her waist. Her eyes were dark and serious. Graham thought that one could say she was cute. She had a lovely, if somewhat reluctant, smile. Graham had learned to watch the corners of her eyes, which smiled more readily.
A silence filled the room. Lindsey gazed at the windows. Graham said, “You know I would like to help you any way that I can.”
“He was your brother. It must be awful for you, too, Graham.”
“It is awful. The surprise, the suddenness, is what’s terrible.”
“No,” she said. “The worst part of it is just that he’s gone.”
They were silent a minute more, and he watched her gaze settle ponderously to the floor. “Lindsey,” he said, “I want you to know, I—I’ve always liked you, very much.” Her attention on him was expressionless. He regarded his own bumbling with a sense of scorn and regret. It was appalling that he had made it this far into his thirties without ever learning to talk. He leaned a little further forward, pulled his hands off his knees and opened them, trying to fill the space of his hesitation. “Not now, of course, but maybe, after a while, we could spend some time together and—see.” Her gaze gave him nothing, neither encouragement nor warning. A tightening inside made him take a deep breath. He put his hands on his knees again and pushed himself back into his seat. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I shouldn’t have brought this up. Not now.” He felt absurd.
Lindsey smiled, very slightly. “It’s all right,” she said. “Not now. Perhaps later.”
That was all she said, but it gave him hope. He left the house with his fedora in one hand, optimism gripped firmly in the other. He began plotting the future. He thought he should allow four months to pass after his brother’s death, then contact her to suggest a lunch. Then there would be further occasional, friendly meetings, and after another three or four months he would make his intentions more explicit. He believed that they might be married another year after that. He surveyed this plan nervously, admitted the possibility of future adjustments. But he felt that she liked him. When he examined his chances of success as objectively as possible, he thought they were good to excellent.
Graham had followed them out of the [REDACTED] suburbs and halfway to Flint, and he felt sure that they were going to Lindsey’s family’s cottage on the lake.
They took the I-475 loop through the silent smokestacks, the rusting buildings, and the empty, pitted concrete parking lots of Flint. North of the city, rejoining I-75, they were again amid open fields and trees. Billboards approached at regular intervals, like incoming waves. Traffic moved at eighty miles per hour. Graham no longer made any attempt to hide from view. He felt aggrieved and bewildered. He knew that Doug had met Lindsey once or twice, but that they should be together in Doug’s car was bizarre, more or less inexplicable within the parameters of their relationship as Graham knew it. Franklin, Lindsey, and Doug—these were the most important people in Graham’s life, and it was inevitable that they had met. But Graham had certainly never noticed any significant interaction between Doug and Lindsey. The only event he could recall clearly was a party at Lindsey and Franklin’s, where Doug had drunk too much and spilled most of a glass of beer over some woman’s blouse.
Nonetheless, when Graham’s cell phone rang and he saw Doug’s number on the display, he suffered the guilt of a voyeur discovered. “Hello?” he said, trying to sound as if he did not know who could be calling.
“Graham.”
“Doug?”
“That you back there?”
“Behind you?”
“Yes?”
Graham said, “Well, I don’t know. I mean—I guess so, Doug.”
Several seconds went by. Both cars flickered through the brief concrete darkness below an overpass. Finally, Graham said, “Is that Lindsey up there with you?”
“Yeah. She is.”
“She’s with— It is Lindsey, my brother’s wife?”
“Franklin’s widow.”
“Franklin— Well. He hasn’t been dead very long, Doug. I mean—”
“Graham, I’m sorry. This is pretty awkward.”
Graham coughed. After a moment, he hung up. It occurred to Graham that he had always despised Doug a little. Doug was one of those people who would laugh without even having heard the joke, only to please, to signal his harmony with the group. Doug Doggy. He was the kind of guy people called Doggy-Dog Doug, and he smiled, pleased to be noticed at all. Graham thought Franklin would have hated the idea of Lindsey with someone like Doug.
Brake lights flashed ahead. Doug slowed, and Graham slowed behind him. Traffic trickled forward, then stopped. They sat becalmed. When movement resumed, it was the crawl, stop, crawl, stop of some exhausted creature.
Graham dialled Lindsey’s cell phone. “Lindsey,” he said.
“I don’t know what to say.”
“Lindsey,” he said. “I am a little, I guess, confused. I thought you understood—I mean, I hoped we might talk, you see. I am surprised. Do you know what I’m talking about?”
“I guess so,” she said. Then, “Not exactly.”
“You said— Well,” Graham cleared his throat. “I think you said, ‘Not now. Maybe later.’ ”
“Did I say that? I was being polite, Graham. Your brother had died. My husband. I didn’t know what to say.”
Graham saw her run her hand through her hair. “I kind of thought,” he said, “we were—we always got along awfully well.”
“You thought, between us, a relationship?” she asked. “Between us, a relationship was always going to be a mistake. Don’t you feel that?”
“Because of Franklin?”
“Yes. Sure. Because of him.” Clutching her cell phone like an earache, she twisted to look back at him. “This, anyway, is where we are.”
Traffic had stopped again. He could have opened the window and shouted to her. He could have got out and walked up to the convertible and screamed in their faces, slapped them, spat, wept upon them. He looked at her looking back at him. Traffic eased forward, accelerated a little. Along the shoulder ran a series of black tire fragments like abandoned carcasses, torn ends exposing claws of steel wire. “But,” Graham said, “how did this happen?”

“Doug called to offer his condolences, that’s all. We ended up going to get a drink.”
“He asked you out for a beer?”
“I don’t recall who asked who. I think me. I think I said, ‘I need a drink.’ Is that right?” Graham heard Doug’s voice, muffled and beaten by the wind, faintly through the phone. “He says yes. That’s right.”
“I see.”
“Anyway, Graham.”
“Yes.”
“Oh, Graham. I don’t know what to tell you.”
“All right.” His foot moved from brake to accelerator to brake. “But I guess— Are you going to the cottage?”
“For the weekend.”
“O.K. I mean, I thought so.”
She said nothing. He said, “Bye.” He hung up. He thought he should do something other than drive, but what that might be eluded him. He had not realized the absurd heights to which his hopes had stacked themselves. He had always arranged his life so as to protect himself from the shock of disappointment, but now it seemed that his hopes and everything else he knew lay around him in wreckage.
Traffic funnelled to the left of a lane closure and finally resumed a steady speed. Orange barrels flashed by, guarding the moving traffic from a series of abandoned yellow machines. Graham began to look for the next exit, a ramp up and an overpass and another ramp down into the southbound lanes, toward home. He thought of his apartment, of taking off his shoes at the door, as he always did, to pad around in the open empty quiet on the wood floors, the shades drawn against the sky, which would be dimming into dusk by the time he got there, the computer humming and glowing, the television echoing slightly in the barrenness. He thought of passing the weekend there, of the time spent in a dull, achy, ineffectual state of regret and obsession over lost moments and missed cues. He thought of the white walls, the quiet, the regrets turning around and around on themselves.
Then the construction zone was behind him somewhere, and he couldn’t recall when he had left it. He saw an off-ramp ahead and watched it approach and watched it pass by. Several miles on, there was another, decorated with lollipop signage on tall poles, and he let that one go by, too.
Doug called. “So,” he said.
Graham said, “Hi, Doug.”
“What are you doing?”
“I don’t know.”
“Graham, you should go home, get a drink. Get a beverage and some sleep.”
“I don’t know, Doug. What— Really, I don’t want to go home, I think.”
“You kind of have to, don’t you, eventually?”
Graham made no response to this.
Doug said, “Well, think about it.”
There were three different exits that might have taken Doug and Lindsey west to the lake, but soon they had passed all of these, and between exits now there was little to see but thick brush and trees along either side of the roadway. Graham phoned Doug. “Are you—I guess I thought you were going to the lake.”
“We were.”
“Are Lindsey’s parents there?”
“Yes.”
“You’ve met her parents?”
“I was going to.”
Graham smoothed his tie. “Well, where are you going now?”
“I’m not sure. Graham, you’re kind of making us nervous. What are you going to do?”
“I don’t know.” Inspired, he edged a few feet closer to their car. “I don’t know. I was just following. I guess maybe I’ll just follow you.”
Now Doug hung up on him. Graham pulled off his tie, dropped it behind his seat, opened his collar button. In Mackinaw City, Doug took an off-ramp, and Graham followed him into the streets. Doug accelerated and, reaching an intersection on a yellow light, spun a right turn. Graham, who was lagging behind, pressed the gas and hit the intersection under a red light, then braked hard and turned, his tires crying out. He got around the corner just in front of the traffic that had begun to cross. These cars braked and honked, and Graham sped away from them. He saw with only the corner of his vision that he was passing Doug, who had stopped at a gas station.
Cursing, Graham made a U-turn and darted back through traffic. He parked on the opposite side of a gas pump from Doug. “Hey,” Doug said as Graham got out of his car. Lindsey sat stiffly, facing forward in her seat. Doug twisted open the cap on his gas tank. Graham, with a sensation of unnatural dignity, moved through the tasks of putting his credit card into the pump and filling his own car with gasoline.
“Are you getting tired of this yet?” Doug called. Graham did not answer. Doug extracted a dripping squeegee from the bucket on the canopy post and pushed it over his windshield. Graham went inside the station and bought a can of soda and a bag of pretzels, watching Doug through the window as he did so. Lindsey roused herself and came in to use the bathroom. She did not look at Graham. Graham went to the bathroom, too, hurriedly. When he came out, Lindsey had not yet returned. He got into his car, looked uneasily in the mirror, and was both mollified and slightly disoriented by the sight of his own familiar features. Lindsey came out chewing on a chocolate bar, and Graham followed them back to the interstate.
By the time they were moving between the great white towers and green cables of the Mackinac Bridge, the sun had already melted into Lake [REDACTED]. A pair of lavender airplane contrails ran along the twilight horizon. The roads were free now of weekend traffic, and the few scattered souls still travelling were marked by headlamps. Off the bridge, Doug turned west onto [REDACTED] 2, a two-lane highway that ran along the lakeshore. The water could not be seen in the nighttime dark, but when the trees opened the lake was implied by a vast, indefinite nothingness. Doug phoned, and in quiet tones said, “What are you doing, why don’t you turn back?” and Graham said, “I don’t know, I don’t know. Why don’t you turn back?” The phones lost signal and the call was dropped. Graham flexed his fingers on the steering wheel. He had begun to feel a foggy gap between his intentions and his actions. It was unclear to him whether he was behaving like himself or out of some idea of how an angry man ought to behave. He wanted to examine his feelings, his desires, but as he tried to take them up they moved away. It was easy enough to keep driving.
Both cars skimmed westward through [REDACTED]’s Upper Peninsula, through an empty dark country of defunct iron and copper mines, leaving the lake behind. They passed under three stoplights in Iron Mountain, spun across a bridge swathed by the muddy smell of a river, and past a sign welcoming the motoring public to the state of [REDACTED]. There was a stop for Doug and Lindsey to change places, and another for more gas. Graham realized that Doug’s convertible would always run out of gas before his own little coupe did.
Around 2 a.m., Graham took the measure of his exhaustion and found it was significant. An hour later, growing desperate, he turned the radio up very loud and shouted along with the choruses of unfamiliar country songs. He tried opening all the windows, pinched himself, held up his eyelids with his fingertips. He slapped himself. The pain startled his mind open for a few minutes, but then he saw shapes gathering in the corners of his vision. These floated forward like meaningless amoebas, but with study became household furniture, desert landscapes, rooms filled with people he had known as a boy. He bit his tongue and saw the road again. The glowing blue digits on the radio said 4:07. When had he last been up this late? College, a decade ago. He turned the radio up higher still. He plucked from the back of his head a dozen hairs, one by one. He recited state capitals and calculated square roots. He extracted a foil gum wrapper from the cup holder in the armrest and chewed it. He screamed until he was hoarse. He dug his fingernails into the palms of his hands. And for a brief time he drove in a waking dream state, dreaming of driving, and dreaming of dreaming of driving. Through this, he held on to the need to follow the twin red lights ahead.

Under a dark-blue dawn sky they entered the state of [REDACTED]. Doug was in the driver’s seat, scratching in his beard. Graham realized, with a sense of disquiet, that he could not recall when Doug had returned to the driver’s position. A couple of stops had occurred in the late hours that he could remember only as figures and lights in a churning, murky water. His teeth felt moldy under his tongue, and on his skin and hair was the oily film that his body had been excreting all night. He took some Kleenex from a box in the back seat, moistened the tissue with his tongue, and wiped at his face. He saw that, from a certain perspective, he had made himself ridiculous, and he wondered again whether he was doing what he wanted to be doing or not. At times he kept driving only because to stop seemed even more preposterous than to continue. It irritated him that Doug and Lindsey had not yet done something to extricate them all from this.
They flitted through the structures and homes of Duluth and plunged again into the forests. Occasionally, they crossed a stream or skirted the edge of a small lake. Graham drove with the windows down, the wind turbulent around him. He thought he heard the weird cry of a loon. He realized that he didn’t feel tired anymore. The return of the sun had been a great relief; his senses revived in accord with the light.
Doug phoned again. “Let’s stop this, man. You’ve made your point.”
“Huh.” Then, “Doug, what is my point?”
“I don’t know, Graham. Do you?”
“I do what?”
“Know the point.”
After a few seconds, Graham said, “Doug. Dougie Dog-Dog.” He stopped himself from continuing on this theme. “I’m not sure I would call it a point.”
“Not a point.”
“Something else, maybe,” he said. He yawned. “I’m having a little trouble, Doug, thinking things through, words. It’s possible I’m a little tired, to be honest.”
“Don’t fade on me now, Graham. Let’s get back to the point.”
“Yes, the point.”
“There isn’t one.”
“No.”
“There is maybe something else.”
“Yes.”
“Let’s work on that.”
“All right.”
“What do you hope for here, Graham? What good can come of following us around like this?”
“Well, Doug,” Graham said, “why do you keep driving? What I mean is, stop at a hotel. Get a room. Lock the door.”
“Will you be outside waiting?”
“Maybe. Probably. Yeah.”
Doug said, “Don’t be an idiot.”
“Uh-huh.” After a moment, Graham added, “I think we’ve just said— I don’t think we have any more things to say to each other.”
Doug sighed. “Fine.” He hung up.
After another fifty miles, the ring of the phone startled Graham. He expected Doug, but the voice was Lindsey’s. “Don’t hit the raccoon,” she said.
A dead, crushed thing appeared in the road, and Graham steered around it.
“I don’t understand this,” Lindsey said. “I don’t understand what you’re doing. You don’t behave like this. You’re always so sweet, Graham.”
Sweet. He did not respond but only stared and accelerated a little closer. He thought of sweet things: a gumball, a cream puff, a sucker.
“Are you there?” she asked.
“Yes.”
She said nothing for several seconds. Then, “Oh, Graham.”
“Lindsey, I think I’d rather— Please don’t call me sweet.”
Lindsey said, “I don’t understand what you hope to do.”
Graham stared at Doug’s car. “I want you to know I’m here,” he said.
“I was just thinking of Franklin,” she said. “And to be honest, Graham”—the top of the convertible was up now, and he could not see her, but he imagined she was wagging a finger in the air—“you’re not Franklin. You’re not as interesting, not as friendly, not as smart. You’re nice, but kind of dull and hard to talk to.”
“I dress better.”
“You look ludicrous. That hat?” She paused, said, “I’m sorry. I’m dead tired.”
“I—I loved Franklin.” He punched his fist into his thigh. He felt savage and utterly ineffectual.
“I did, too. And I told him so.”
He hung up on her.
In [REDACTED], great spaces opened. Silos towered like monuments amid languid hills. Doug slowed to obey the speed limit as they passed through weather-beaten single-stoplight villages. They got fuel at gas pumps with numbers that scrolled up on wheels. The widowed sister-in-law and the ex-friend once again changed seats. Graham wanted badly to use the bathroom, but did not dare for fear that the convertible would vanish. Doug, driving now, pulled into the road, and Graham followed. He took an empty plastic cup from the passenger seat and steered with a knee while using his hands to hold the cup and open his trousers. A curve forced him to grab for the steering wheel, spilling half the cup. For a minute, he held the remainder, the plastic warm and slick in his fingers, then he set the thing into a cup holder over the radio.
For the next hundred miles or so, he drove with the leg of his pants slowly drying against his thigh. In the plains stood small, fast-spinning windmills with dark-brown cattle gathered at their feet. At times, his mind wheeled around in vast, galactic, circular arguments as he explained his predicament to himself. He rubbed his face; his eyeballs felt like rotten plums. Black and gray storm heads bloomed over the fields to the north, but above the road the sky remained clear. When the phone rang, he did not answer it. The fuel needle crept always toward empty. His thoughts began to move into strange avenues and passages—of melting roadways and painted faces and endless limbs and white skies.
When he next considered carefully the details of the world, dusk had come again. In the darkness to his right a few tiny lamps floated, like lost children with flashlights.
Doug drove faster, well above the speed limit, and his car dwindled into the distance. Graham accelerated to close in. Then he edged closer. And closer yet. Soon he was driving only three or four feet from Doug’s bumper, his headlamps starkly lighting the backs of their heads. Doug glanced over his shoulder, and the lights caught his eyes, turning them into shining, startled objects. Graham’s phone began to ring, and he left it lying on the seat. He read, and reread, and reread “Buckle Up! It Makes It Harder for the Aliens to Suck You Out.” He hated Doug. He reached for the cup in the cup holder and brought it to his lips before recalling that it contained urine. What am I doing? he wondered. What am I doing? The question seemed to have crept into his mind like a child into his parents’ bedroom. He banished it and closed the door.
He thought of Franklin. Of sitting with him, just sitting in the same room with him, his brother.
He thought, Ah, God!
The road swam and shivered occasionally before him, but he followed it. Doug’s turn signal flashed, and they veered onto a side road. They turned, drove, turned, turned again. Graham felt as if he existed not at the front of his eyeballs looking out but at some point behind, so that the facts of the world got in and then had a gap in which to ricochet and echo.

They drove through a moonless darkness on a narrow road. He tried to recall whether he was chasing them or following. Time passed.
He noticed that he was running low on gas. Was that possible? Had there been another stop recently? He might have slept briefly and dreamed of driving while Doug pumped gas. He could not say what he had done.
Then Doug pulled onto the shoulder. Graham went by slowly and idled ahead perhaps a hundred yards before he stopped. There had been no other traffic for many miles.
The convertible’s lights went off. Several minutes later, Graham’s phone rang. Graham said into the phone, “Why are we stopping here?”
“My car is out of gas,” Doug said.
In the rearview mirror he saw the figures of Doug and Lindsey coming up behind him, shadowy and red-lit by his tail lamps. Graham made a fretful attempt to hide the mess in his car, sweeping rubbish from the seats down into the foot wells. He bent to pull his socks up from where they had collapsed around his ankles. He said into the phone, “You need gas?”
“I have no idea where we are.”
“No. Well, me either.”
Doug stood outside his window. Some tiny fraction of the instinct of friendship revived at the sight of Doug’s pale, bearded face, and Graham smiled at him. Doug, with the phone still held to his ear, said, “Get out, Graham.”
“Why?”
“I’m tired,” Doug said.
“Gosh. Tired.”
“Get out.” Doug dropped his phone and with his face an inch from Graham’s window he yelled, “Get out! Get out! Get out!”
Graham, confused, pushed the door open—this, at least, made Doug move away—and scrambled from the car. A cold night wind fled eastward, hissed through the grasses along the road, scuffed maliciously inside his head. He said, “Dougie Dog. Doug Doggy Dog. Dog. Dog.” They stood gazing at each other. Doug was taller, and Graham had to look up to meet his eyes. He said, “Now what?”
“I guess I’m going to have to beat the crap out of you.”
“Oh.”
“Or you can let us have your car.”
Graham shook his head from side to side. It made him dizzy. He shook his head again; he liked the swirl of the dizziness.
“He’s bigger than you, Graham,” Lindsey called. “Doug’s a lot bigger.”
Graham folded his fingers into fists, or approximations of fists—it seemed as if he were doing this wrong somehow. He raised his hands and opened and closed his fingers, trying to make them feel right. He looked down at them: thumb outside the fingers, not inside. He felt he had become so far removed from himself that he could observe himself with utter detachment, and simultaneously, paradoxically, that it was only at this extreme of removal that he could find himself.
“You ass,” Doug said.
Shoulders down, like a gorilla, Graham ran forward into Doug. He was surprised when Doug fell over. Losing his balance, Graham fell onto Doug’s chest. Doug huffed, wheezed. For a moment, they lay crumpled together on the ground. Then, with a sudden violent movement, Doug threw Graham over, rolled on top of him, and put a knee in his groin. Pain lanced through Graham’s muddle. “Get off,” he said.
“Leave us alone,” Doug said, and he kneed down harder.
“Get off,” Graham grunted, and punched Doug awkwardly in the chest. Doug hissed. Graham hit him in the neck, and Doug yelped. Doug reared back, then leaned forward and hit Graham, a rough hard blow on the ribs. Lindsey said, “Hit him harder. Knock him out. Hit him in the head.”
Doug hit him again.
Graham laughed. “A joke!” He cried, and laughed. “Dougie Dog-boy, it was a joke. Can’t you take a joke?” He lay on the ground laughing between blows until he lost breath. He thought of Franklin and recalled his brother more vividly than he had since his death—recalled wrestling with him when they were children, recalled the silent fighting that they engaged in (Dad yelled if he heard them), the close muted grunts, rasps, the slap of flesh on flesh, the knock of limbs against the floor, the heat of Franklin’s breath on his ear. Franklin was older and bigger, and he always won—immobilized Graham, worked him over with a torturer’s precision. Graham had to lie there, take it, wait for his brother to let up, think of being somewhere else.
And, now, there was nothing. His brother had been emptied from the world. He was abandoned. He was alone.
After a time, Doug stood. He went to Graham’s car and took the keys from the ignition and opened the trunk. He leaned into the trunk. Lindsey was climbing into the driver’s seat. Graham stood, wavering a little; his knees seemed oddly jointed. He wheezed and felt a chill on his flesh. Doug backed out of the trunk with a tire iron. He started toward Graham.
Graham fled. At the edge of the road he stumbled, fell, and crawled into an area of high grasses and thorny weeds. He lay still for a minute. When he heard the car tires turning on the asphalt, he raised himself and watched the lights of his car dwindle, then vanish.
Around him the weeds and grasses were stirred by the wind. Overhead he saw white skies, the color of wet bone. He hurt. He felt the mud and blood and grasses on himself like a new, rougher skin.
He staggered into the road and threw stones after Doug and Lindsey, shouted their names. This felt good. In a small, far, dark, vanquished corner of his mind, he knew he would grow cold and tired, that he would huddle and wait at Doug’s convertible, and eventually Doug would return or send someone for it, and Graham would plead for help from whoever that person would be. But for now he climbed onto the hood of Doug’s car and jumped on it to dent the sheet metal. He felt very much awake and not at all himself. 

