DELLA
By Anne Enright

Della thought again about the stream, which was black and broad, and about the naked boys who played on its sloping banks, all very white. One of them reached toward the water with a stick, but the stick did not touch the water. She could see him leaning sideways off the steep bank. There was a scrubby tree leaning in from the other bank, and the leaves were small and grayish against the black water.
Della had no idea where the river was, or who the boy was, or whether he was about to fall into the water. She did not know if this was something that she had seen once, or whether she would see it sometime in the future. It was a dream, or something off the telly. She thought that it had something to do with the River Blackwater, but it was probably not even Irish. In Ireland, boys didn’t swim in the nip.
Della knew there was nothing important in the river, a clump of twigs and leaves, or an oddly shaped stick. The boy was reaching out just for the pleasure of it—to see if he could.
She thought it might be in [REDACTED], the river was so black, and the trees were birch trees. Or maybe the boys’ bodies just reminded her of birch trees, which always looked so fresh and hopeful. But the boys looked sad, too, she thought, like boys in a picture that was taken before a great war.
The man next door was going blind, but he didn’t seem to notice it. Della felt obliged to point it out to him, even though it was none of her business and she didn’t really know what to say. They had lived side by side for more than fifty years, but they never got on much. Della had liked his wife, but she was dead a long time now, and he had never been chatty. Besides, his manner with children had stung Della when she was rearing her own. Her five and his two, all gone.
At least hers came back now and again—his didn’t darken the door—but they were scattered, and Della, left to herself for long stretches of time, was prone to forgetfulness and thoughts about birch trees and naked boys she had never known. Sometimes, from next door came a scratching or tapping, which made her think, What could he be up to in there? Other times, so much silence that she wrote it down: “16th October—no noise,” trying to keep track of things, in case the man died. Despite the fact that she couldn’t remember what year it was.
She pushed the pieces of paper behind the mantelpiece clock. The noises happened behind this wall, in his kitchen, which was the mirror to hers. Domestic scrapings, and the occasional bump or clatter. You might think, as she sometimes did, that he was doing something odd in there, but who would have guessed the real oddness of it—that he could not see what he was doing at all.
It took her months to realize it. She met him outside the local newsagent’s—it might have been a day in February—and he neglected to salute her. And this put her in mind of the last time he had passed, without a nod or a sign. So either he was fighting with her or there was something else astray. Still, he had always been such an irritating person that the weather turned to spring before her conscience finally got to her and she said, “Hello, Tom,” in a voice so loud it might have sounded sarcastic.
He startled and looked around.
“Della?” he said, and she would have thought then that the eyes were going, if it weren’t for the daily paper tucked under his arm. Also, she knew by the way he said her name that he was more intimate with her than she liked, on the other side of their brick wall.
Then, one day in April, she saw the newspapers in a clump for the bin men, and a curious sense about them woke her up in the middle of the night with the fact that they had not been opened, let alone read, and the man next door, whether he knew it or not, was blind.
There was nothing worse than knowing this. If it was just his mind that was going, then at least he would forget, from one minute to the next, how miserable he was. But the noises behind the wall were not the vague scrabblings of old age. He was looking for something. He was getting it wrong, over and over again. She thought of him in there, in the gathering filth, and she hadn’t even a phone number to ring. And even if she had—if she looked one of the children up in the book—what would she say? They would be in their fifties by now, Colm and Maureen, with families of their own. They would be older than her doctor, older than most people. Imagine asking them to remember their own father—the shame of it. Imagine being turned down.
She looked in the book anyway and found the son’s name, Colm Delaney. Della had a vision of him at the age of five—such a charmer, and bold as brass. Though she had felt, even then, that the brass would win out in the end and the charm sour into his father’s talent for passing remarks. She did not lift the phone.
He was a most provoking man, Mr. Blink, Mr. Blunderbuss, the soft white stick that lived next door. One of the first things he said to her—she was out walking her new baby, they couldn’t have been three weeks in the place. It was the summer of 1950, and there she was with her beautiful first son, pushing him in front of her for all to admire, and he looked into the pram and said, “He’s small for an Aberdeen Angus.” From which she was to take all sorts of implications. Poor Della, the innocent young wife, with a nine-pound baby coming out of her—the fright of it at the time and the whole world turning inside out. He’s small for an Aberdeen Angus. A tone he had that walked into your head and made itself right at home. Laughing at the wreck of her private parts, somehow, or at the size of her husband’s—her husband was off working in [REDACTED] at the time—laughing at her foolish pride in the baby and, worse than all this, obliging her to laugh, too.
She would have forgotten it, if it weren’t so much the nature of the man.
“You’re very dressed up,” he might say, meeting her in the kitchen over a cup of tea with his wife. Like she was getting above herself. Or maybe his wife was letting herself go. Whatever he meant, he managed to make everyone unhappy, in a radius.
“Oh, you’d know all about that,” he’d say, over something innocuous like buying a pork chop.
“About what? What?” Sometimes she wanted to remind him that he did not actually know her. That anyone could have bought the house next door. Anyone at all could be playing with their baby in the little front garden as he walked by and said, “How’s the brat?” over the wall.

It was midsummer by now, and Della was awake at four and asleep again at three in the afternoon, and it was very aggravating to be so out of step with the world, snoring through the Lotto results and waking with the worst kind of film spilling, unheeded, into the room. She would switch the telly off, and in the afterimage came the picture of the boys playing on the riverbank. She would try to hold that, and fix the place in her mind. The white forks of their legs; the ease and grace of them as they stood and watched the boy with a stick leaning out over the water. The flatness of the river below.
Della was expecting to die any moment. But it didn’t seem to be happening, somehow—river or no river. Still, this was another reason that she put off doing something about the man next door, feeling, in a childish sort of way, that no one would expect her to help him if she was dead: no one would blame her if she was slumped in a chair with her mouth open catching flies while the telly begged for someone to turn it off, night after night. But she didn’t die. She didn’t even feel dizzy when she stood up out of her chair. All that came to her was the alien smell and the drifting nights of old age, while darkness gathered next door and the scratching and tapping went on. Getting under the skin of his own house: the world’s most irritating man.
“Where are you off to?” he’d said to her once. “In your good shoes.”
Maybe, she thought all these decades later, he had been talking about sex. And this was what got to her. The nerve of him—thinking she might be interested, horrible person that he was, the kind of man who’d be sarcastic to a dog. But she had left herself open to it: by being pregnant, maybe, by pushing prams, by whatever passed between herself and her husband in the dark. So it was just as much as she deserved (her whimpering, maybe, coming through the wall)—he could say what he liked about her shoes, or her pork chops, or the vegetables she bought from the vegetable man. It was enough to drive you demented. She began to feel thought about, and watched. She did not like passing his windows anymore.
She wouldn’t have kept up the connection except that they were neighbors and she felt sorry for his wife, Noreen, who was a terrific person, especially when Della was off in the maternity ward. Noreen fed the abandoned children and doted on the new babies, each of them as they came home—this woman, who was sneered at day and night by a husband who only ever gave her two.
Though he was mad about her in his way. Couldn’t move without her, somehow. And there was a whole year he sat in their front room and nothing was said—about his job, or what was happening, or what was wrong with him, and why was he sitting in the dark. After which time his comments never seemed to hit home. They were getting a bit old for all that anyway: Della, bagged out by five pregnancies, looking in the mirror and seeing her mother looking back. Still, she had felt, in those years, uncommonly strong, with all her children growing around her. Until the day her little daughter, Margaret, came in crying because Mr. Delaney said that her chest was getting fat. Such a peculiar and wrong thing for a man to say, and the whole street going, “Isn’t he a ticket, ha-ha-ha.” She’d thought it was wrong at the time and she thought so now and, though her own husband said she was silly, hysterical, call it what you like, Della, burning with shame and sorrow for her daughter’s poor breasts, did not address a word to Tom Delaney, or laugh at his jokes, or stop in the street, from that day out. She did not fight him, she just failed to respond, and his wife she spoke to less and less and then not at all. And this was a great loss to her: his wife, Noreen, who was always such a terrific person—it cut a small notch out of her. By the time she died, Noreen had no friends left, of course, and that, too, may have been part of his plan—the spoiler. Della went to the poor woman’s funeral and wondered if things could have been otherwise and realized that they could not.
He must be covered in bruises, she thought one day, to the sound of a dish hitting his kitchen floor: a crash followed by three more, so regular they may have been deliberate—and how was he going to clear that up? Coming down in the morning with his feet bare. She picked her feet up in sympathy, quickly. One. Two.
It was unbearable. Della went upstairs and cleaned the mirror of the bathroom cabinet, and looked at the picture of herself in there: an old woman she didn’t know. Nothing to do with the young woman pushing a pram, or the middle-aged woman watching, as he walked behind his wife’s coffin, the face of Tom Delaney made frank and obscene by grief. It was indecent, she thought at the time, to go to a funeral with no forgiveness in your heart. There was no luck to it.

Was that what had gone wrong? Della tried to see herself in the bathroom mirror, but she saw, instead, Any Old Woman: someone whose kindness did not matter.
She took the soap dish and banged on the pipe that led down from the cistern to the back of the toilet: a thin, unsatisfying sound, of plastic against plastic. She cast about, found the Olbas Oil in its little thick bottle, and reached for the ceramic of the cistern itself. Then she tapped three times.
It came that evening—mortifying: One, Two, Three. He was knocking on the spot directly behind the mantelpiece clock. Della picked up the poker and, with a dangerous surge in her thin old heart, tapped back, twice. The silence that followed reminded her of leaning in for a kiss, or deciding to lean in, and when the returning knock came she was off at the sink, making a cup of tea. Enough was enough. She would have to buy a packet of biscuits tomorrow and, pretending that nothing had ever happened, ring the bell next door.
The boys playing by the river did not have private parts, she realized, when she woke at dawn, and found herself still in the old chair downstairs. They were blurred at the crotch, as angels might be blurred. It was not that their penises did not exist, it was just that she could not picture them—the one that belonged to the boy with a stick, for example, hanging down as he leaned out over the water, straight as a plumb line. She could think of it, but she could not see it, even though she knew it was there.
The lump of twigs and leaves, on the other hand, became clearer, cut the water more sharply; it pulled through the flow like an opening zip. Della could not imagine it as anything else: a dead dog, for example, or a living water rat, or the periscope of some unlikely submarine. The twigs and leaves remained just what they were. For which she would always be grateful.

Because there was something about the scene that she had not noticed before, a different quality. If she thought very hard about the blackness of the river, and the whiteness of the boys (were there four boys or five?), if she let them be—let the boy with the stick reach for the water, let the watching boys shift from one foot to the other, and the water flow on—if she did not try too hard, she could sense it, there in the picture. Music. Very beautiful. It was hard to say what kind.
"Hello, Tom,” she said at the door. “Della?” he said. And she was reminded of his tone outside the newsagent’s, saying her name with a voice that, if you shut your eyes, was the voice of true love.
“I have some biscuits,” she said, obliging him to let her in. And when he did—the devastation of the place.
“Ah, Tom,” she said. “Would you not think of the Meals on Wheels?”
“I did, sure,” he said. “Until they took my radio.”
“They did not.”
“They were cute enough. They left me this one. Except it’s full of holes.”
And he made his way unerringly to the radio on the table, which was an ordinary radio with ordinary holes in it, for the sound to come through. He was starting to imagine things. Della’s own sight wasn’t the best—she had to admit it—but at least she knew what she could and could not see. It was typical of Tom Delaney that he wouldn’t go blind just because his eyesight deserted him. It was typical of him not to let on. Della was so annoyed with him she forgot herself, and spoke as if they had been close, all these years.
“I’m too old to be cleaning up after you,” she said.
Though there was a solace to it, too, getting a brush and shoving the whole stinking lot out the back door. Much easier, she thought, than cleaning up your own place. Lord Lucan sitting behind her at the table, patting the holes in his radio or reaching his soft fingertips to the plate of biscuits. You couldn’t even begin to tackle the sink. She would have to get Margaret on to it—at least get her to ring the social services. Poor Margaret, with three teen-age children and no husband in Glasnevin, and the breasts that Tom Delaney had mocked in 1964 just a nuisance now, when she ran for the bus. And it seemed so absurd to Della—the thirty years that these things mattered, out of the eighty years that made up a life, eighty or more—that she found herself laughing out loud.
“What’s the joke?” he said.
“Nothing,” she said.
“Don’t let me stop you,” he said.
“I won’t, so,” she said.
And he turned his face to her; gleeful, as if he could see her quite clearly—a woman in his kitchen who was far from being a virgin, a woman who would, no doubt, find him quite attractive, in the end. 

