A SECRET STATION
By David Gates

At a decent interval after his seventy-first birthday, Martine sat him down: she was leaving him, moving to [REDACTED]. To be with a man he presumed she’d met at that conference—last fall, had it been?—from which she’d returned two days late, after supposedly seeing friends and taking in the new production of “Così” at the Met. She would come up a couple of days a week to teach the rest of her classes, then figure out what was next. She would ask for nothing in their settlement. Well, no blame to her: if she lived to be ninety, as more and more people were doing, she had half her life ahead of her. She said, “The one thing I swore not to do, I swore not to be trite and ask you to understand.” Oh? Had she not also sworn to forsake all others? But he couldn’t very well get on his high horse about that.
When the spring semester ended, he went in and told Jack Stephenson that he was retiring. Jack had been urging this for years—“You could get back into research”; “You and Martine could travel”—but now he said, “Are you sure this is the time?”
“What’s this?” He sniffed. “The sweet scent of compassion?”
Jack shook his head. “I just don’t want to have to replace you with some twerp out of Johns Hopkins.” This was Jack giving himself airs: who from Johns Hopkins would come to a state university up in the snow country, with a hospital that looked like a parking garage?
“You’ll bear up,” he said. “With what you’ve been paying me, you can hire two twerps.”
“There’s that.” Jack frowned at the flat computer screen on his desk. “One second. Let me deal with this idiocy.” He hammered at the keyboard with his index fingers, stopped, nodded, and clicked the mouse. “Sometimes I wish I were back tapping old ladies’ knees with a rubber hammer.” He took a deep breath, held it, let it out. “Since we’re being frank, I have to tell you, I do have some concern. I know it hasn’t been an easy year. Do you really want another change in your life just now?”
“Aren’t you the soul of delicacy. They ought to have made you dean long ago.”
“Whoa.” Jack raised a hand as if to protect his face. “I’m not your enemy, Don.”
“It’s a moot point anyway,” he said. “I’ve decided to become a Doctor Without Borders.”
“You can’t be serious.” In fairness to Jack, Martine hadn’t got this joke, either. “Well, I mean, of course there’s nothing worthier. But, my God, you’ve been in the classroom for what? Longer than I’ve been here.”
“I do like the way you put things.”
“Don. With all due respect, I’m not quite seeing you as Mother Teresa. Couldn’t you assuage your conscience by volunteering at a clinic once a week?”
“The still, small voice,” he said.
Jack looked at him over the top of his half-glasses. “You have lost your fucking mind. O.K., look, here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to keep your office as is. You go off and think this over, and when you’re ready to—”
He held up both hands. “Will it save time if I tell you that I’m not interested in what you’re going to do?”
Jack took off his glasses and laid them on his desk. “Don, are you talking to someone?”
“A higher power?”
“I can suggest a very good—”
“You’ll have to excuse me. I hear that still, small voice calling.”
“Always smarter than everyone,” Jack said. “I’ve never doubted that you could dance rings around me. But, just as your friend—and if I’m out of line here you can tell me to go peddle my papers—isn’t it possible that you’re well out of this thing?”
“I suspect ‘marriage’ is the word you’re looking for,” he said. “If you don’t mind, I’ll be dancing off.”
They’d planned the trip back in November, at Red Fish Blue Fish, the one really decent restaurant in town. Dinner was on Martine: the English Department had just made her a full professor. It helped to think that at this point she hadn’t fully decided to leave. [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and on to 4974616c79—to visit his daughter and her husband—then to Crete for the first three weeks of July.
“Can people still go to Jim Morrison’s grave?” Martine had said. “In Père Lachaise?”
“I have no idea,” he said. “He was the singer, was he not? I wouldn’t have thought he came up to your idea of a poet.”
“He didn’t,” she said. “He was just the most beautiful man who ever lived. Present company excepted.” She broke off a morsel of bread and dipped it into the saucer of olive oil. “So, will [REDACTED] be her usual intransigent self?”
“You’ve met [REDACTED] once. In ten years.”
“Q.E.D,” she said.
“At any rate, we’re only going to be there for two days.”
“I guess I shouldn’t complain,” she said. “I am a home wrecker. Wasn’t that the draw for you in the first place?”
Before leaving for the airport, he flushed away all but one of his last Viagra samples; then he flew across the Atlantic beside Martine’s empty seat. In [REDACTED], he swallowed the last blue pill and, for the first time in his life, picked up a prostitute: a tall, broad-shouldered young woman made taller than him by spike heels that had her on tiptoes. “So you know,” she said as she took his hand, “I am not a twahn-nee.” What a world: did they now have trainees? He instructed her in what he liked, but found that he no longer liked what he liked. In [REDACTED], he drank a bottle of wine with dinner and had a brandy afterward, then went to a coffeehouse and smoked marijuana, which he hadn’t tried since a party on the night Robert Kennedy announced that he was running for President. It had been amusing then, but this overwhelmed him. He couldn’t imagine what was happening to him—could it have been laced with something? When he managed to find his hotel again, he spent what he believed to be hours lying on his side on the white sexagonal tiles of the bathroom floor, unable to raise himself to do his vomiting in the toilet. In the morning, he put the bathmat and the towel he’d cleaned up with in a plastic bag meant for valet service and took a taxi to the airport. Instead of continuing on to [REDACTED] and 4974616c79, he flew back to [REDACTED], paying fifteen hundred dollars to change his ticket. In a Portosan off the bicycle path along the [REDACTED], he feasted on a street boy who must have known he’d never done this before: artfully unshaven, hair artfully mussed. The boy let loose in his mouth, then beat him, took his wallet, and kicked him with the snakeskin cowboy boots that had been the pretext for their conversation. In the emergency room at St. Vincent’s, he told the young woman doctor that he was a doctor, too; she slipped him an envelope with a few Percodans to hold him till he could get to an oral surgeon.

When he got back upstate, he arranged to rent the main house to Karen Friedman, a resident in neurology who’d been his most promising student two years—no, three years—earlier, and her partner, as the expression went, a dumpy older woman named Gloria, who managed the Staples store at the mall out on the bypass. He put the Volvo away in the barn and covered it with a blue plastic tarpaulin. (Martine used to say the car made her feel like a “doctor’s-wife impersonator,” which was why she’d picked it out.) He drove his Jeep up the hill behind the house to the cabin that he and Nathan had built the summer Nathan turned sixteen: their last father-son project. A couple of years ago, he’d had a contractor install a woodstove and a composting privy. Electricity came through a series of hundred-foot orange cords, the first plugged into the outlet down on the back porch, the last connected to a power strip for the computer, coffeemaker, microwave, small cubic refrigerator, and combination radio/compact-disk player. The cabin had served as a guesthouse and a—what word wouldn’t be pretentious? The place where he’d done his taxes. He stacked split cordwood between the trees around the cabin, making a meandering wall with a gap by the front door. On a tree a little way down the steep path to the house, he hung a clapperless bell and a large eyebolt, so visitors could give warning.
Jimmy Huggins, whose office had been across the hall from his, had taken over the reconstruction of his mouth. The choice was between implants (which Jimmy said were now the “gold standard”) and bridges, which would involve grinding down undamaged teeth on either side of the extractions. In the meantime, to manage the pain he phoned in a Percodan prescription to the Rite Aid in the mall (they knew him at the family-owned pharmacy on University Avenue), in the name of Kaspar Hauser.
He had brought a single carton of books up from his library: Anthony Powell, Simenon (to see if he could get his French back), Patrick O’Brian, the Oxford Shakespeare. He hadn’t read Shakespeare since Princeton—half a century ago—and how could you stand before God without having tasted the best his world had to offer? (He now allowed himself God thoughts: intellectual integrity was no longer worth the vigilance.) Sitting in the Morris chair, he worked his way through “Lear” again, but “Othello” turned out to be a bit close to home.
He filled gallon plastic jugs, ten at a time, at the kitchen sink, and carried them up in the Jeep. He had a spatterware basin, a handsome thing Martine had bought, for doing dishes, rinsing with mouthwash (brushing was still uncomfortable), shaving, and washing above the waist. Saturday night was bath night, as in his childhood; after the girls went into town, for a movie or for dinner with whoever their friends were, he walked down to the house, filled the clawfoot tub that Martine had restored, and poured in their perfumed bath salts. If they knew, they knew: he was becoming a strange old man. Percodan was no longer doing the trick, so Kaspar Hauser had been put on Dilaudid. He moved his bowels in the privy—because of the drugs, he supposed, he’d had to resort to laxatives—but pissed on the ground, like Adam. Sometimes he would unplug the power strip, fling the end of the orange cord out the window, and let the cabin float free.
He had given thought to the possibility of aids, and decided that it was unlikely. His mouth had been bloodied only afterward, but he had swallowed the boy’s semen, not knowing what else to do and not wanting to seem—untender. So he drew a sample from his arm and sent it to the lab. The negative result, of course, meant nothing: he would have to take another sample in six months. He made a note on the December 31st page of the year’s DayMinder: 1/8—Draw blood.
One Saturday night, early in the fall, he went upstairs after his bath, the towel around his waist, smelling of roses and remote on Dilaudid, his old man’s dugs swinging. In the master bedroom, he found a pair of Gloria’s black lace underwear in the top drawer of what had been his dresser. They were so large that the scalloped rim slipped down to his buttocks, exposing his pubic hair, still mockingly black: the hair on his head had been white for years. He tried to imagine himself inhabiting the bulky, penis-free body that would fill these—“panties” was the word—but couldn’t quite cross over. He lay down on the bed and turned on his side. He’d got so lanky that his knees banged together. He put a pillow between them, and reached into the panties to handle himself, to make his disgrace definitive, but the poor thing was dead and perhaps this made his disgrace definitive. The curtains were open, the shades up, and he saw the leaves of the maple tree suddenly brighten to orange. Had nuclear devices exploded over Syracuse and a hundred other cities—the promised end, at long last? No: headlights. The girls coming home. He would let himself be caught, and that disgrace would set him free. But it was only a car passing by.
His first wife had been a nurse: this was back when such things were countenanced. Wide hips, full breasts, which turned out to have troublingly large aureoles, a fondness for old movie musicals and Dave Brubeck. She thought he looked like Dave Brubeck, and in those days, before Martine had urged laser eye surgery on him, he may well have. Andrea had had a bad habit (which he’d never called to her attention) of prefacing statements with “Truth to tell.” He could no longer remember what they’d talked about, late in the night. She had stopped working when she began to show, and stayed home to raise Nathan, then [REDACTED]. Another age of the world. And, years later, the younger woman, the son hanging up the phone, the weeping daughter telling him she would never have a family. How could this, all so—“trite” was the word—have given any of them either pain or joy?
He had saved lives. At first he’d tried to keep count—could he ever have been that young?—but these were lives that any doctor could have saved. Once, when he was still in practice, he had emergency-room duty and they brought in a teen-age girl: some fool woman, a hairdresser of all things, had thought she knew how to perform an abortion—it was that long ago—and afterward he had put the girl on the Pill. Half a year later she came to him in his office, pregnant again; insanely, he had given in, risking not just the loss of his license but, in those days, a charge of murder. When the girl came to him one more time, he turned her away, and that same night—or so he’d taken to telling the story; it was really the following night—she died in the emergency room, of an overdose of Nembutal. Well, any doctor of his generation had such stories. She was a homely, overweight girl named Cheryl—Robinson, she had told him, but it was actually something else—with blackheads on her nose. She smelled. He had looked into it a little afterward; he had been that young. The parents were divorced, the mother had a boyfriend and what was then called a drinking problem, and had taken out an order of protection against the father. All three, apparently, had beaten the girl. Cheryl Robinson had been sixteen, ten years older than [REDACTED]. And now [REDACTED] was old enough to be her mother. Though apparently she had chosen to be no one’s mother.

The night after Cheryl Robinson died, he had told Andrea that he’d had enough of practice and meant to teach full time. And he suggested that they adopt a child. “This is a turnaround,” she said, and poured herself more wine. “So why did I get my tubes tied?” The next day—and it really was the next day—he made a date to get together with the receptionist who’d been flirting with him. Since she was married, too, there would be no complications.
Martine had been his sixth adventure, if that was the word: of this he had kept count. He’d been seated next to her at a dinner party when she’d first come to the university as an assistant professor, specializing in the Victorians. Did she not find them a little stodgy? “Everybody thinks that,” she’d said. “The Victorians were hot hot hot. Of course, it was all encoded. You should come in when I teach ‘Dover Beach.’ ”
“I warn you,” he said, “I’m a hard sell.” He saw Andrea looking at them from across the table.
“I’ll sell you,” she said.
He sat in the back of her classroom among the undergraduates, who had stared at him when he came in, and listened as she lectured. “ ‘Begin, and cease, and then again begin / With tremulous cadence slow’? I mean, what does this sound like, boys and girls?” Her black T-shirt fit so snugly that he could see the nipples of her small, unbound breasts.
“Intriguing,” he said afterward, when they’d ordered their drinks. “But weren’t you taking things somewhat out of context?”
“What is context?” She took off her narrow black-framed glasses and cleaned the lenses with the bottom of her T-shirt.
“Ah. Am I guilty of old thinking?”
“It’s charming,” she said. “It’s so old it’s transgressive.”
“Then that’s a good thing, yes?”
“I have an idea you don’t transgress enough.”
“You might be surprised,” he said.
She put the glasses back on, and her face seemed prettier again. “Oh, I don’t mean that. Of course, you have a reputation.”
“Have I?”
“Or else I wouldn’t be here with you. I like a woman-hater every once in a while. It might be fun to take your cherry.”
“Well,” he said. “If you think you’re man enough.”
There had been an ice storm the night before he was to go in for the last, most difficult extractions; he scraped away frost to look out the window and saw the bare trees silvery with sun. Apparently he had brought wood in last night, a kindness for which he was grateful. He opened the draft and built up a fire. His skin felt raw, as if he had a low-grade fever.
He swallowed a Dilaudid with his coffee and turned on the radio, to a secret station he had found: “music” that was simply noises and drumbeats, about guns and money and women, and where even an old man, provided he was by himself, was allowed to listen in on all the rich obscenity. Bitches on their knees, black men chanting about what the bitches must do.
He heard the bell ring and turned the radio off. When he opened the door, he felt the cruel air, and saw Karen, in her black leather jacket.
“It’s cozy in here,” she said. She unwrapped her red scarf, unzipped the jacket. A pretty and delicate young woman—a gamine, she would once have been called—with short black hair.
“Could I get you some coffee?”
“Maybe I’d better take it along? We should allow some extra time because of the roads. Actually, can we take your Jeep down to my car? The path is all ice.”
“I still don’t think it’s necessary for anyone to drive me.”
“They’re going to put you under,” she said. “This is not discussable.”
He’d tried to research the interaction of Dilaudid and sodium pentathol. Not ideal, but probably all right. “Why don’t I drive us there at least,” he said. Her little Japanese putt-putt had only rear-wheel drive. “And you can drink your coffee. Can you drive a standard shift? Assuming it becomes necessary.”
“All dykes can drive standard,” she said. “It’s in our DNA.”
At the stop sign, he put on his turn signal, to take the shortcut. He crept down Breakneck Hill Road in first gear, steering from one patch of sand to another. His quietude was deepening now; the ice had bent the trees on either side, making the road look like a tunnel. When they came to the curve, he felt the Jeep become a heavy object gliding down, its back end sweeping to the left. He heard Karen yell “Shit!” But then the tires bit into sand, he cut the wheel, and the Jeep straightened out and resumed its crawl. In his old life, his heart would have begun pounding now in a delayed adrenaline reaction. He looked over and saw Karen using a Kleenex to mop coffee off the leg of her jeans.
In the waiting room, she sat next to him, a paperback copy of “The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat” in her lap. “You know, I never got around to reading that,” he said.
“This is what made me want to go into neurology,” she said. “I have to say, I’m loathing it this time. All this bogus compassion. And his bogus beard.”
“Since when have you been so fierce?”
“Sorry,” she said. “I’m just in a shitty mood. Let’s worry about you.”
“Ah, that’s a young man’s game. And what are you in a shitty mood about?”
“About half the time,” she said. “See? You’re not the only one who can be evasive.”
As instructed, he had gone without breakfast; coming up out of the anesthesia, he vomited bile. On the way back out of town, Karen pulled into the quilted-metal diner on the bypass and helped him up the three steps. Really no need: they were dotted with ice-melting pellets, and he felt remarkably normal, considering where he had been.
Karen ate an omelette while he drank coffee and studied the map of [REDACTED] on his placemat: a country in the shape of a splatter. Islands called the Sporades? He had never heard of them. Must this not be where the word “sporadic” came from?
“You sure you don’t want some rice pudding?” she said. “You wouldn’t have to chew. You should eat something.”
He shook his head.
“Here, take my jelly at least. You need to get your blood sugar up. We have apple, or—let’s see. Grape.”
“Ah. The [REDACTED] or the Mediterranean. This will tell you something about me.” He peeled back the seal on the tiny oblong tub and picked up his spoon. “Out, vile jelly!” It tasted sweet, but not of apple particularly. He swallowed without letting it linger in his mouth; he still didn’t dare feel with his tongue where the teeth had been. “Martine and I were going to spend the summer in Crete.”
“Do you know this is the first time I’ve heard you say her name?”

He put down his spoon. “Do you know,” he said, “that you have a gift for making yourself offensive?”
“Donald, why are you being so ugly to me?”
“Perhaps that’s my gift,” he said.
Back in the passenger seat, the inside of the Jeep looked familiar but reversed, like a mirror world. Karen waited for a Sleepy’s truck to pass, then pulled into traffic. “Listen, I want you to stay down at the house tonight. Gloria and I can take the guest room.” She meant [REDACTED]’s room; Nathan’s had been redone as a study for Martine.
“Absolutely not,” he said.
“Then I’ll bring a sleeping bag up.”
“This is foolish. I—watch out.”
“I see him.” She hit the horn at a minivan that seemed to be nosing into them from the left lane. “You don’t even have a phone up there.”
“For what purpose?” he said.
“I’ll let you think about that.” She shifted down to pass the Sleepy’s truck. “God, I want one of these,” she said. “It makes me feel like a real lezzie.”
“Do you consider yourself not a real lesbian?”
“Well.” She looked in the rearview mirror and swung back in front of the truck. “I’ve been with men. It’s not the same.”
“I’ve been with men,” he said, “if it comes to that.”
“You?”
“Well. A man. I found it just the same.”
“When was this?”
“Oh, back when I was willing to try anything.” He had told Karen only that he’d been beaten and robbed.
“So,” she said. “This must explain why our bath salts keep running low. I was picturing you splashing around with some loose woman.”
“That’s a distasteful picture.” What they’d done to his mouth was beginning to hurt. “Listen, I need to fill this prescription they gave me. I don’t suppose you’d go into Rite Aid for me?” Little chance that they might accuse Kaspar Hauser of impersonating Donald Blakey to fill a prescription for codeine, but nevertheless.
“Of course.” She put on the turn signal. “So who would have thought. No wonder we get along so well. Both galloping bisexuals.”
“Hardly that,” he said. “Unless you mean off into the sunset.”
She pulled into the parking lot, and began prowling for a space. “Now I’m supposed to tell you you’re not old,” she said. “Aren’t we tired of this dance?” She glanced over at the white-and-red Staples store. “You know, it used to be that all I had to do was see that logo and I’d feel myself blushing.”
“That’s a lovely stage,” he said.
“Stage,” she said. “That’s a lovely word.”
Neither Nathan nor [REDACTED] had come to his wedding; he’d thought they’d at least have been tempted by an August weekend on the Vineyard. At Martine’s insistence, he invited them for Thanksgiving that year; it was [REDACTED]’s first semester at Bryn Mawr and Nathan’s junior year at U.C. Santa Cruz. Martine reserved a fresh-killed turkey, and made the dressing with truffles that had just come in to the market on University Avenue. The wine was a Sancerre that Martine had discovered at Vin Ordinaire, and that was now having a vogue among the faculty.
He and Nathan had spent the morning in the woods; Nathan felled five trees with the chainsaw, and they took turns cutting them up and splitting the logs with the maul. As the weak sun rose higher, Nathan took off his denim jacket, then his plaid shirt. He was broad across the chest and shoulders, narrow at the waist and hips; as he raised the maul high and brought it down again and again, sweat darkened his black T-shirt in an inverted triangle between his shoulder blades. It had been clear since Nathan was in seventh grade that he would never go to medical school. Now, as he looked at his son’s strong body, this seemed perfectly right.
Late in the afternoon, the kids came downstairs flushed and red-eyed. Nathan, he saw, had not changed out of his bluejeans and sweaty T-shirt; you could smell his rank odor through the scent of roasting turkey. [REDACTED] slouched next to him at the far end of the sofa. Martine opened a second bottle of wine—they had killed the first before the kids made their appearance—and brought out a tray of roasted chestnuts. She extended it to [REDACTED], who shook her head. Nathan took a handful and asked if they could watch what he called the “Macy’s Day Parade.” Martine gave him a look that would have quelled one of her students, but handed him the clicker and went to take the bird out of the oven. Nathan started going at the shell of a chestnut with his teeth, staring between his knees at giant balloons representing cartoon characters, floating above the streets of [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] had got hold of the scalpel they used as a letter opener, and sat slicing parallel cuts into the flesh of a green olive.
Martine came back in with a third bottle of wine. She broke the cork, tried again, and had to force it down into the bottle with one leg of the nutcracker. “Ten minutes, boys and girls. [REDACTED]? Would you care for more wine?”
[REDACTED] looked up. “Would I care for it? I mean, what does that even mean?”
Nathan laughed. “Somebody’s losing her shit. Listen, can me and Bec carve the turkey?”
“I suppose,” Martine said. “I’m a little impaired myself. I’ll show you where we keep the knives.”
“Same place as always, right?” Nathan stood up. “In the knife thing? Come on, Bec. Bring your scalpel. You can give it a hysterectomy.”
They went into the kitchen. Martine said, “I wish I had some.”
“Some what?” he said.
“Oh, come on. Couldn’t you smell it on them? Maybe they’d share a little.”
“They’re probably just ill at ease,” he said. “I suspect Nathan has experimented some, as all—”
He heard a putt-putting noise out in the kitchen, guessed what it was, and burst through the door to see Nathan holding the chainsaw and [REDACTED], index fingers pressed into her ears, laughing. Nathan revved the saw to a deafening snarl, white smoke belched into the room, the giant turkey twisted on the platter, then flew apart, splattering meat and stuffing onto the wall Martine had redone in blue milk paint.
Now the saw was idling again, and Martine was standing in the doorway. She walked over to the counter, set her wineglass down, and said, “You know, you’re absolutely fucking right. We should just make this a performance piece.” She picked up a severed drumstick and hurled it at the window, breaking a pane of the original glass whose waves and bubbles Andrea had particularly admired. Nathan stared at her, then shut the saw down. “Wait a second, wait a second,” she said. “I’ve still got its dick.” She reached into the garbage and came up with the turkey’s neck, which she’d boiled along with the giblets to make the gravy, took it in her fist, and jammed it against the front of her black velveteen slacks. “Get down and suck it,” she said to her husband.

[REDACTED] said, “I’m afraid.” She began to weep. “Daddy?”
Martine let the turkey neck drop and put an arm around her shoulder. The greasy hand left a mark on [REDACTED]’s silk blouse. “Sweetie, we’re all afraid,” she said. “Can we just agree that I’m shit and make this good for your father?”
After they’d all pitched in to clean up the mess, they called Domino’s, and played Scrabble: Martine and Nathan against him and [REDACTED]. He put on “Sketches of Spain,” and Nathan, [REDACTED], and Martine sat on the sofa and smoked some of Nathan’s marijuana; he sat in his leather armchair and put his hand up when the cigarette came his way. He watched the three of them get quiet. At one point, he thought he saw Martine put a hand on Nathan’s thigh, but by then he had been sipping [REDACTED] for hours.
The next day, he and Martine drove them to the train. They all agreed that they must do this again over Christmas. Martine hugged [REDACTED], and [REDACTED]’s hands hesitated, then rested on the back of Martine’s coat. But something must have been said on the way to [REDACTED]. Or perhaps visiting their mother restored their sense of perspective. At any rate, he saw Nathan and [REDACTED] again only at their college graduations and their weddings, from which Martine absented herself.
At [REDACTED]’s wedding, in the cloisters at Bryn Mawr, he saw that Andrea had cut her hair and dyed the ends—there was a term for this. She’d got a desk job with unicef after burning out at Calvary Hospital. They sat with Nathan between them, and he noticed that she wasn’t wearing a ring; [REDACTED] had told him that the marriage to the real-estate broker was in trouble.
He watched [REDACTED] and Giancarlo perform their waltz; Giancarlo was the better dancer, as Fred Astaire was said to be better than Ginger Rogers, though wasn’t there now a revisionist view? He instructed himself to quell his mistrust: it was all those old movies in which American girls were pestered by European hand-kissers. This Giancarlo seemed solid enough: a visiting professor of economics at Wharton. What he’d wanted with an American college girl, however serious-minded—her dress put that on display for all the men to see.
The band struck up “I Won’t Dance,” which argued some wit, he thought. The floor filled up. He held out his hand to Andrea and she came to him, a kindness he did not deserve.
“Do you think they’ll be happy?” he said.
“They’re going to live in 4974616c79,” she said. “What’s not to be happy?”
“And how are you?” He put his right hand on her waist (he could feel a stiff undergarment), and foxtrotted her toward the middle of the floor, the tips of her breasts brushing his jacket front.
“Truth to tell”—she showed teeth in what must have been meant as a smile— “I’m much better alone.”
It had been dark for hours when he heard the bell ring down the path. Damn the woman. He was sipping Talisker, for the taste, really, and playing solitaire on his computer. He got up and opened the door: not Karen but Gloria, wearing a backpack and carrying a sausagelike nylon bag. “No,” he said.
“Karen said you’d give me an argument. She got called in to the hospital.”
“That’s never good,” he said. “You’re welcome to come in for a drink.”
“Except you’re blocking the door. It’s cold out here.”
“Forgive me.” He stepped aside. “I just didn’t want there to be a misunderstanding.”
She set the sleeping bag down, wriggled out of her backpack, and unzipped her down vest.
He fetched another glass.
“Here, I can get that.” She took it from his hand and poured herself a couple of fingers, then added a dribble of water from the jug. “My husband used to drink Macallan. He said a little water brought out the nose.”
“I didn’t realize you’d been married. Have my chair.”
“I’m O.K.” She sat on the floor, her back against his bed. “Yeah, five years. Amazing, huh? My wedding dress was a size 6.”
He poured himself another finger and sat back down in the Morris chair. He couldn’t decide whether he liked her hoarse voice.
“So how’s the mouth?” she said. “Karen tells me they went in with earthmovers.”
“I don’t think there’s going to be a problem.”
“Meaning there is a problem?”
The pain was still there, but at such a distance that it didn’t seem to apply to him. “I mean that it’s fine,” he said.
“So are we going to fight about this?”
“About?”
“Me staying.”
“I don’t believe I have the energy,” he said. “If you do stay, could I ask that you simply be here quietly? Without offense. I just don’t feel up to carrying on a conversation.”
“Don’t worry about me, I have thick skin. Thick everything.” She put a hand to her belly and made the flesh shake. He looked away.
“Make yourself comfortable,” he said. “If you can. There are books here.”
“I brought mine.” She reached for her backpack. “Just tell me when it’s lights-out.”
After a while, he felt the room begin to cool and, as if she felt it, too—well, she did, of course—she got up and fed the stove. He clicked on Deal to start another game. The drugs he’d taken at six-thirty were wearing off, and he took another codeine for the pain, another Dilaudid—because he was addicted, he supposed, though it was hardly the desperate condition they wanted you to believe—and an Ambien to get to sleep. If he weren’t careful, one of these mornings he would fail to wake up. (If he continued to be careful, then it would be some other morning.) He lost, clicked on Deal again, studied the array, then moved a red two onto a black three and dragged the king into the empty space.
He seemed to think someone had hold of his upper arm, guiding him toward what must be the bed. At one point someone had said, “Are you all right?” There had been a noise, some sort of disturbance. There was a connection among these things, or, if not a connection, at least a sequence. But such considerations existed far outside him, in the world of light and edges and face after face after face.
He opened his eyes and it was daylight, and wide Gloria had been replaced by narrow Karen, fitting a paper filter into the coffeemaker. His mouth was hurting; his back, too, as if he had thrown it out again. Could time possibly have gone backward, to that thing that had happened? But there was a rule against that. The cabin stank of whiskey. He closed his eyes and the negative afterimage of the window appeared, complete with the tree branches outside. He followed it, now here, now here, now here, until it faded, then opened his eyes and burned it in again.
He woke up, smelling coffee. He ran his tongue along his lower lip: it smarted, felt fat, and he tasted blood.

He woke up and Karen was sitting on the bed.
“Say again?” she said.
“What time is it?”
“Ten-thirty. So how much of this have you been taking?” She rattled the vial of Dilaudid in his face. “You scared the living shit out of Gloria.”
“Where is Gloria?”
“Where she always is. Berating some stockboy.” She got up and set the pills on the table. “Could you drink a little coffee?”
He turned on his side—what in God’s name had he done to his back?—to fold the pillow double against the headboard and watched her fill a cup and pour in milk.
“Thank you.” She had put sugar in, though somehow he hadn’t seen her do it. “So. Am I being called to account for my sins?”
“I’m not the [REDACTED],” she said. “You have a medical problem.”
“Granting it’s a problem. That’s your assumption.”
“I think Kaspar Hauser could validate my assumption. If we could reach him in the Black Forest.”
“Ah, at least someone appreciates my little jokes.”
“I’m surprised you haven’t been busted,” she said. “How stupid do you think people are?” She sat down on the bed. “Apparently you passed out and fell into your keyboard. And I guess you smacked the floor pretty hard. Let me see you.” She rested a finger on his lower lip and pulled it down gently. He hissed in. “Not terrible,” she said. “I made us oatmeal. In the microwave.” Point of information, apparently. “You haven’t been eating.”
“I need to take something,” he said. “I hurt everywhere.”
She shook her head. “Not on my watch. I don’t doubt that you hurt. We’re going to get you to someone who treats these things.”
He worked his elbows to get himself sitting up. “Oh? By whose authority? I’ve had about enough of you, I can tell you that.”
“You’ll feel better,” she said.
“You’re damn right, I will. I want you out of my house. The both of you. You and your fat lesbian whatever-she-is.”
She looked at him and got up off the bed. “Good,” she said. “A little honesty.” She took her leather jacket off the peg. “I have to say, you were a wonderful teacher. Beyond that—I don’t know, I guess I’m glad to know that there wasn’t anything beyond that.” She wound the scarf around her neck and put the vials of pills into her jacket pocket. “You have an appointment for one-forty-five. I’ll give you some privacy to get yourself cleaned up.”
Nathan flew in from [REDACTED], then back to attend to his Lexus dealership and be present for his son’s sixth-grade graduation. [REDACTED], coming in from 4974616c79, missed Nathan by a day—the two of them hadn’t seen each other for years—and stayed on, visiting for the half hour the rules allowed and sleeping out at the house, in her old room. She told him that the girls had moved their belongings out in a U-Haul. They’d been perfectly lovely to her, she said; the thin one had invited her to have coffee.
When he had got through the worst of it, [REDACTED] took him to have his bridgework completed, and on Thanksgiving night he was able to eat with her at Red Fish Blue Fish. She had the veal, and what she said was a good Pinot Grigio; he had the branzino, a fish once unknown, and was drinking mineral water for now. She was not going back to 4974616c79, she told him. She and Giancarlo—but this probably wasn’t the time.
“Come, come,” he said. “I’m not such a delicate soul.”
“No,” she said. “No one’s ever accused you of that.”
“Ah. I take it you’ve been talking to your mother.”
She nodded. “I’m going down when you—over Christmas.”
“When I can be trusted by myself? Well, that should be a pleasant visit.”
“Why are you so hateful about her? Because she still loves you?”
“You’re not becoming one of those truth-tellers, I hope. I only meant that [REDACTED] should be a welcome change from this outpost. Martine certainly found it so.”
“She was a bitch,” [REDACTED] said.
“I was the bitch,” he said. “As they say. I’m afraid I must have liked it.” He took a sip of his mineral water.
“Well, Daddy, look—you wouldn’t consider coming with me? Mom says Joe Family might be there.” This was her new name for Nathan.
“Thank you, no. I wouldn’t have thought that you, of all people, would still entertain that fantasy.”
She stared at him, the glass halfway to her mouth, then dropped her eyes. “I don’t know why I keep being surprised.”
“I’m sorry. As you say, I’m not a delicate soul.”
She drained her glass and held it out to be filled. “Daddy, are you not even curious? About me and Giancarlo?”
“I was waiting for you to tell me.” He lifted the half bottle, dripping, out of the—“humidor” was not the word—wiped it with the towel, and poured for her. “I had assumed you didn’t want to talk about it.”
“Fine, you’re right,” she said. “I don’t want to talk about it.” She took a sip. He noticed fine traceries at the corners of her eyes, and a single hard line slicing from each side of her nose to the corner of the mouth. These lines seemed to have been drawn onto the face of the true [REDACTED], who had always looked young for her age—disturbingly so. “I think I’m going to apply to law school,” she said. “Given all that’s going on here.”
“Bind up the nation’s wounds?” he said.
“You can’t just throw up your hands.”
“Spoken like a woman who’s spent the last ten years in sunny 4974616c79.”
“Yeah. Well. That’s over.” She picked up her glass again. “I was hoping maybe I could stay with you. While I get things figured out?”
“And, meanwhile, keep an eye on me.”
“Do you think you need that?”
“What a question,” he said. “What am I supposed to say?”
“You could have said no. Should we talk about what you’re going to do?”
“As a matter of fact,” he said, “I’ve decided to go work in the inner city.” He had been thinking about how to phrase this joke to make the meaning more precisely double, but it would do.
“Daddy, I think that would be wonderful for you. And the people you could help.”
“The people I could help.” He clinked his glass against hers. “Here’s to them.”
Without telling [REDACTED], he wrote out a new will and faxed it to his lawyer. It left her the house and five acres, which included the barn and the tennis court; the other forty acres, with the pond and the cabin, went to Nathan; the money, fifty-fifty, to [REDACTED] and her mother, since Nathan had done so well. The Volvo should rightly have gone to Martine: he’d heard from Jack Stephenson that she had found only an adjunct position at Fordham, and she could have sold the car for the money, or kept it for the irony. But, since she had true love, there was no need for either. He directed that the car be sold, and the proceeds donated to Doctors Without Borders. He left the Jeep to Karen Friedman.

[REDACTED] was staying at the house with him for a few more days before going to [REDACTED]. Through Jack, she had arranged for three L.P.N.s to come out in eight-hour shifts while she was gone. He was back in the king-size sleigh bed he had shared with Martine, which marked the place where he had shared the old double bed with Andrea. Each night after dinner, he and Karen—no, he and [REDACTED]—would play three games of Scrabble in front of the fireplace; they’d become evenly matched. Then, after trying to put himself under by puzzling out Shakespeare, he would swallow the one sleeping aid [REDACTED] allowed him: L-tryptophan, from the health-food store. The liquor cabinet, of course, she had emptied. One morning, when she went out to get the mail, he telephoned Rite Aid, but he was informed that his prescriptions could no longer be honored.
It snowed the night before he was to drive her to the train; they were calling for a foot or more. That afternoon he had gone out to the barn and uncovered the Volvo, the blue tarp spattered with the droppings of swallows. It had started right up, like the good Swedish car it was, and he had moved it out into the driveway to make loading her bags easier in the morning. He had thought of simply driving off, but to where, and what then? That night he lay there trying to decode the scene in “The Winter’s Tale” where the wife is pretending to be a statue—the silliest part of a particularly silly play—then gave up, got out of bed, and went to the window. Snowflakes pouring straight down: he tried to follow this one, this one, this one, this one. White knife-edged crests had built up on the branches of the maple tree. He heard a roar that shook the house. It was only a section of accumulated snow sliding down the slate roof. But for an instant he had thought: So this is how it ends.
At some point, he heard the snowplow come through and saw its yellow blinkers light up the snowflakes. He awoke to the sandy scraping of a shovel down below: [REDACTED] clearing the walk. Daylight, and snow still falling. He smelled coffee. He had himself dressed when she clumped in, snow sticking to her green rubber boots. “I got a path dug out to the car,” she said. “But shouldn’t we take the Jeep? I don’t know if the trains are even going to be running.”
“I thought we ought to go in style,” he said.
The snow was knee-high on either side of the path she’d made; he saw that she’d cut the sides down at an angle, the way he used to do it. When she was a child, still living here. He went out and started the Volvo, put the heat on full blast, then came back inside. “Be warm in ten minutes,” he said.
She poured him a cup of coffee and turned on the radio. “Let’s see if we can get the weather.”
“It’ll be fine.” He tapped his forehead with his index finger. “My own secret station.”
“That’s half your problem right there,” she said.
“I’d call that a conservative estimate,” he said.
They slung her bags into the trunk. A couple more inches had fallen since the plow had come through, and the smooth white of the road showed only a single pair of tire tracks.
At the stop sign, the tracks went straight ahead; Breakneck Hill Road was a virgin slope. He put on his turn signal.
[REDACTED] looked over at him. “We’re not going this way?”
“Save time,” he said.
“We have lots of time,” she said. “Do you want to get us killed?”
He jammed the shift lever into [REDACTED]. “Would you care to drive?”
“I’d care to live, Daddy. Do you even have snow tires?”
“I’ve been a doctor for forty years,” he said. “Do you think I don’t know what I’m doing?” He closed his eyes and listened to the tick tick tick tick. “I’m sorry, Bunky.” He turned off his signal. “We’ll take the long way. It won’t make that much difference.” He pulled the lever back into Drive and started the car forward; it fishtailed, then righted itself. Snow blew straight across the windshield, from left to right.
“I must be hearing things,” she said. “You haven’t called me that since—you know.”
He glanced over to see if she was crying. No. “Is it all right if I call you that?”
“As you say. It won’t make that much difference.” She reached over and patted his leg. “Sorry, Daddy. I’m just . . . Do you promise to take care of yourself while I’m gone?”
“Aren’t we leaving that to the professionals?”
“I told you, right? Mrs. What’s-her-name is going to meet us at the station and she’ll follow you back to the house. Mrs. Biggs.”
“Now there’s something to look forward to.” He had already taken his vow of silence: not a word to any of them. If they reported him, they reported him. He was a strange old man.
“You’ve always had women looking after you. So they’re being paid.”
“How it generally ends up,” he said.
“And you’re going to look into that volunteer work?”
“A Doctor Without Borders,” he said. “Heal the sick, raise the dead.”
“Always so modest.”
“Yes, well,” he said, “I can tell you a story about that.” The wind had shifted now and was blowing snow straight at the windshield, like an attack from the stars. “This was back when I started out in practice,” he said. “I had night duty in the emergency room and they brought in—”
“Daddy,” she said, “I’ve heard this how many times?”
“Then I guess there’s no need to drag it out,” he said. An attack of the stars: he must not get focussed on this. “But you see where I’m going.” 

