READING LESSONS
By Edwidge Danticat

The first time [REDACTED] remembers ever being aware of her breasts was when she was thirteen and her mother told her to rub crushed butterflies on them to make them grow. Not already dead butterflies but live ones, plucked from flower petals by her own hands. Saturns were preferable because it was easy to tell the pale females, which she needed, from the darker males, which she did not. Swallowtails and other species with black spots were considered unlucky. And she was not, no matter what, to mistake a thick-antennaed moth for a butterfly, for if she rubbed a poisonous moth on her dot of a nipple not only would she get a rash but she wouldn’t see another centimetre of growth for the rest of her life.
She was already an expert lizard hunter—she preferred the kink-tailed ones to any other kind—so the butterflies proved to be easy prey, but because she was used to more struggle than they were capable of she’d sometimes press too hard. Either their wings would crumble, leaving a fine, sticky dust under her fingernails, or the butterflies would simply fall apart and she’d pile the corpses in a jar, a kaleidoscopic, see-through mausoleum, too horrifying to keep in her mother’s cosmetics cabinet yet too beautiful to discard.
The day her mother was shot by a young man no older than [REDACTED]—a classmate of hers, according to some witnesses—as she was coming home from her textile shop, [REDACTED] simply uncovered her jar of butterflies and threw its contents to the two iguanas she kept in a small cage in her parents’ bamboo-hedged, hibiscus-lined garden. And, because she’d taken her mother’s advice, her breasts did grow, so much so that, years after she had left adolescence and left [REDACTED] with her father and was working as a first-grade teacher at a small experimental school in [REDACTED]’s Little [REDACTED], she discovered in the shower one morning a chestnut-size lump in one of them, the right one, which seemed to have bloomed overnight, as if her mammary glands had been soaked in a butterfly bath while she slept.
She had told the story of her mother and the butterfly potion to the two 4861697469an women who showed up in her classroom that very evening to learn to read. Surrounded by hand-drawn maps of their Little [REDACTED] neighborhood, real maps of what [REDACTED] and the kids called Big [REDACTED], a globe that showed the whole world, and drawings made with parents and refrigerator doors in mind, both women sat stiffly in the adult desks towering over the children’s bureaus, which, for the evening, had been pushed to the outer corners.
[REDACTED] had been drafted to teach one of the school’s so-called twilight literacy classes after the principal, her clandestine boyfriend of two and a half years, came up with the idea of helping the students by giving the parents a taste of the American educational system. The school had a ninety-nine-per-cent 4861697469an student body—the one “foreign” boy had, like the school’s principal, been born of 4861697469an parents in Burundi—so she expected the same of her evening class. She was dreading her first moments before the Creole-speaking mothers and fathers, who, unlike their children, wouldn’t simply look up at her with helpless glee but would rate her on things that she suddenly found difficult to conceal, like her rapid loss of enthusiasm for her job, or her growing discomfort at keeping a secret that could be either harmless or devastating.
Before the two women had shown up, she’d been thinking of just going through the motions, replicating with them some of what she attempted from morning to afternoon with their kids—the alphabet singsongs, the vowel and consonant drills, the color charts, the math demonstrations with Popsicle sticks. She might even repeat for them some of the questions the children constantly asked: What is a refugee? Why do my parents need money? What is a bouzen? What is a vagabond? Every once in a while, she planned to tell the parents, she was delighted when a child made a more puerile inquiry: How does a kite fly? How does an airplane stay up in the air? Where are my tears hiding when I’m not crying?
When forty-three parents enrolled for the classes, two of whom Principal Boyfriend, as [REDACTED] liked to call him, quickly discovered couldn’t read in any language at all, he bypassed his small group of eager recent Ed-school graduates and deposited the two, for more intimate instruction, in her care. Besides, he pointed out, each had a child in her class. The younger parent, Fania, a willowy woman in a sleeveless crimson dress, was mother to Vanya, a scrawny girl whose hair was always braided in what seemed to be a hundred yarnlike plaits, each individually fastened with a different-colored barrette. Vanya’s barrettes reminded [REDACTED] of the flecked aphids that had invaded her mother’s garden during the summer months of her childhood, sucking the moisture out of her banana trees until they were drier than paper.
Lorvane, a strapping, stoic-looking, blue-uniformed hotel maid, had three children at the school. One of them was indeed [REDACTED]’s pupil—Paul, a restless, rambunctious boy, who at the beginning of the year had lost two front milk teeth that still showed no signs of being replaced by adult ones.
“What’s in this for me?” [REDACTED] had asked Principal Boyfriend when he’d playfully dangled a time sheet in front of her that afternoon.
“Aside from the extra money?” He still had the same French accent, he’d told [REDACTED], with which he’d spoken since he left Burundi at sixteen. “Of course, the endless satisfaction of being a miracle worker, of making the blind see.”
There were times when his projects annoyed her so much that she thought she might hit him, not hard and not often, just once. But there were also times when she found herself feeling grateful to him, for even as he orchestrated his grand pedagogical schemes he never overlooked the details of her own life. He’d signed her up to teach that class, for example, as if he knew exactly what she would need that evening: not to be alone in their vast yet sparsely furnished Brickell Avenue condo, staring into a mirror, prodding anxious fingers at her flesh.
Her two evening students had only nodded to each other once when they’d arrived; both looked equally exhausted after long days at what [REDACTED] assumed were physically taxing jobs. Even before the class had officially started, they could barely keep their eyes open.
“Why do you want to learn to read?” [REDACTED] asked them.
Lorvane shrugged, then replied, “Because I don’t want people to take me for an imbecile.”
“For my daughter,” Fania said, her close-set eyes growing misty and full.
“I have another reason you might want to keep in your mind,” [REDACTED] said, leaning back into the same red rocking chair from which she read daily to her first graders. “Do the two of you ever travel between [REDACTED] and here?”
“Now and then,” Fania answered.
Lorvane nodded coyly, as if uncertain where [REDACTED] was taking them.
“You remember what it’s like when it’s time to fill out your customs and immigration forms? You probably ask the person who happens to be sitting next to you on the plane to do it for you, right?”

Fania kept her eyes on the cover of her brand-new composition notebook while Lorvane bobbed her head, her droopy chin sinking into her chest.
“Some of the seatmates are not always in the mood, or able to help you,” [REDACTED] continued, “so they wave you off, forcing you to ask the steward or stewardess, who has other duties but must quickly do this small favor for you as the whole plane watches. Reading and writing can spare you this type of humiliation.”
She had prepared the speech beforehand and wanted to give them both a concrete goal to aspire to, the dream of one day completing questionnaires for themselves and for others. But to round things off, [REDACTED]—whose furniture-maker father had snickered at his illiterate plane-mates during the flight that had brought them to [REDACTED]—also told Fania and Lorvane about ancient civilizations whose indigenous populations never knew how to read or write but, instead, used hieroglyphs with which it was easy to recognize water as a series of wavy lines, and a man or a bird as a drawing of such. And she reminded them both of the well-known 4861697469an saying “Analfabèt pa bèt,” one of Principal Boyfriend’s recent favorites, which, though it did not rhyme in English, could be translated as “Illiterates are not stupid.” Then, before proceeding to help the women trace and retrace the first letter of what suddenly seemed like a very long alphabet, she told Fania and Lorvane, whose mouth opened into a giant O as she occasionally nodded off, about breasts and butterflies and mothers lost too young. She volunteered to answer their questions, which, it turned out, were not so different from the ones often asked by her younger students: How long will this take? When will I go home?
That night, after class, the two women made a trip to Principal Boyfriend’s office to tell him that they had learned only how to write the letter “A” in their first session with [REDACTED]. She never opened a book and wrote only that single letter on the board toward the end of class. The rest of the time, she had just talked and talked like some crazy woman, and not always in English, which they hoped to learn, but in Creole, which they already spoke a whole lot better than she did. They asked to be transferred to someone else.
“Screw them,” she told Principal Boyfriend when he recounted all this to her in bed. He held one of her hands under the sheets. She dangled the other over the side of the bed and, after a sudden rush of blood to her fingertips, felt it go numb.
She wished sometimes that she’d agreed to his suggestion to paste a glow-in-the-dark constellation to the ceiling. He’d told her soon after they moved in together that when he was a boy he was afraid of really dark nights, nights that in Cankuzo were called “Who are you?” nights because it was hard even to recognize a friend. She hadn’t wanted their bedroom to look like a child’s bunker, but now she thought she might reconsider, for if she had planets and galaxies, half-moons and shooting stars to stare up at on nights like this it might be easier to pretend that she was somewhere else, in her mother’s garden, perhaps, on a warm summer evening, with soft blades of grass stroking her cheeks.
Before going to bed, she had checked again and her lump was still there. It had neither grown nor shrunk since the morning, when she’d come across it like a strange presence in a familiar place, a sudden sixth finger near a perfect set of five, an amorphous birthmark on a swanlike neck. She was beginning to think of it, this thing inside her, as a fragile egg that might crack. It was essential that he not touch it, especially with amorous intent, as loving touches might nourish it or release it from its shell to roam freely to other parts of her body.
“Maybe I should send those two women to someone else,” he said. He released her fingers to run his hand across her flat, muscle-rippled abdomen. When his elbow accidentally touched the lacy padded bra she had kept on, she moved it away and carefully lowered his arm onto his gut, a small mass of a beer belly filled with foods and sweets and liquors that she had also enjoyed.
“I love you, you know,” he whispered. His words surprised her. She couldn’t remember the last time he’d said that to her. Maybe six months before, in the little garden café near the school, where he’d boldly taken her to lunch to celebrate their two-year anniversary as a “secret” couple before asking her to move in with him. Apart from her father, he was the only man she felt she could follow anywhere, yet she could never bring herself to tell him this. She had already shown her loyalty by joining the staff of his school, by agreeing to carry on a live-in romance that all her colleagues suspected but could not prove.
She didn’t reply to his declaration of love, just reached over and took his hand and put it back on her stomach.
“We have an investigation going at school,” he said. He moved his face closer to hers and stared at her in the dark. She wanted to turn away, but instead she pressed her eyelids together to make another kind of sky, a sky full of fireflies, tiny little torches lighting dead mothers’ paths.
“Is it something big?” She wished she could paste fireflies to their bedroom ceiling, ones that she could let loose around the room now and then. But even when she was a girl, and immersed in the insect world, she had never trapped fireflies. Unlike the butterflies she kept until they turned to glittery dust, once the fireflies were dead she was no longer interested in them.
“One of our kids told an aide that he was slapped by a teacher,” he said. “I asked Chantal Cazeau to look into it.”
Chantal Cazeau: that grim-faced twenty-four-year-old doctoral student who was volunteering at the school for the year. On the wall above her desk in the office that she shared with three other aides was a giant poster filled with despondent-looking kids across whose faces were printed the words “children need advocates,” followed by a dozen exclamation marks. Like all the other teachers, [REDACTED] had sat through many of Chantal Cazeau’s lunchtime professional-development seminars.
“The children are sacred” was the theme of every one of her talks. “They deal with all kinds of shit at home: poverty, drugs, indifference, absent parents working two or three jobs to make the rent. We don’t want to add to their trauma here.”
In addition to her role as school counsellor, Chantal Cazeau had suddenly become the school’s attorney general, cracking down on lesson-plan violators, inattentive testers, and abusive teachers. Principal Boyfriend had a lot to do with this. With the children’s salvation as his ultimate end, he could turn the least bit of enthusiasm into zeal, and had quickly made Chantal Cazeau a fanatic. Even though he shared little of his private life with his staff, he never hesitated to tell them that he loved them. He’d probably told Chantal Cazeau in some way that he loved her, just as he had the cafeteria workers, the janitors, the security guards, his secretary, even the soccer coach. And in return they all worshipped him enough, he hoped, to serve the children even better.

It wasn’t meant to be a slap, just the wave of a hand, like a conductor guiding members of an orchestra, each with the same goal in mind but different instruments in hand. Toothless Paul, as even the other children with missing teeth called him, was one of the most disruptive boys in her class. He had long legs, which he constantly knocked together, and a loud, jittery laugh. Of her faithful twelve, her disciples, he interrupted her the most, both with his clamorous mirth and his impertinent questions. Whenever she tried to silence him by giving him some extra task or forcing him to stand alone in the back of the room, she was reminded that, unlike the other children, who had some weaknesses in either English or Creole, Paul was equally fluent in both and knew a long list of mumble-ready cuss words in each.
He was in the habit of reaching over and, with both hands, grabbing the top of the chair in front of him, and rocking the little girl in it back and forth. Her name was Ruth, and she always wore elaborately ruffled Sunday dresses to class. [REDACTED] had once called her parents to advise them to dress her more casually, but Ruth’s father had informed her that they didn’t take school casually and did not want to attire their daughter in a way that might encourage her to do so. Also, he said, they were Pentecostals and their religion prohibited them from letting their child wear most of the other clothes that were in stores these days.
[REDACTED] could now see that Paul’s rowdiness might have something to do with his mother’s inability to either engage or restrain him, for he always seemed eager, hungry even, for distractions beyond anything around him. Perhaps she should have called the mother in, or referred him to Chantal Cazeau for evaluation, but she had thought herself capable of handling him.
That particular morning, she was reading a version of Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Snow Queen” to the class. Concerned that the children might not fully understand the story, she had avoided it before. But Principal Boyfriend had encouraged her to make it a part of her reading lesson, to show her students, he said, that people from other cultures also valued tales filled with ugly demons and little girls who spoke to flowers, rivers, and birds.
She had found herself enthralled with the sound of her own wistful voice. The most beautiful landscapes looked like boiled spinach, and the nicest people appeared loathsome, or they seemed to stand on their heads with their stomachs missing and their faces so twisted that you couldn’t tell who they were. If someone had a freckle, you can be sure that it would spread over his nose and mouth. For a while, she had even managed to ignore Paul, who mimicked her facial expressions and lip movements and grimaced to distract the others. How grey and hard the wide world was! But the more Paul was ignored the more animated his impersonation became, until most of the children stopped listening to laugh at him. Or were they laughing at her?
The room was completely silent when [REDACTED] put the book down and headed for Paul’s desk. As [REDACTED] approached, he straightened his body and looked straight ahead, avoiding her glare.
Even as she was standing beside him, she had not yet decided what to do with him. Where would she send him this time? To the back of the room? Or, as a new measure, to the principal’s office?
She had meant only to accentuate whatever command she gave him by pounding on his desk with her open palm, but when a familiar toothless smirk flashed across his face, one he desperately tried to control, she found herself wanting to erase it, the way she did the words and numbers from the blackboard at the end of each school day.
She realized that she’d hit him only when she heard the other children gasp. Paul reached up and rubbed the side of his face, but only for a moment. There were no finger marks that she could see, no blood streaming past his lips. He didn’t cry. Instead, he went on smirking, his toothless gap growing wider, until [REDACTED] walked back to her red rocking chair and continued her reading lesson.
The next morning, Principal Boyfriend left before she did, for he had duties, as he constantly reminded her, which required that he arrive at school ahead of the staff, even the cafeteria workers. On this day, this new day, she would neglect the lump, not check for it at all. She would pretend that in her sleep some magic clock had been turned back to the days when her body was still her own.
She was certain now that he knew about Paul. He was simply waiting for her to confess.
“We owe each other that much,” she could imagine him saying. Or perhaps, “You owe young Paul that much.”
“And what does anyone owe me?” she might say, but probably wouldn’t.
She couldn’t face them yet. Not him. Not Paul. Not Chantal Cazeau. So she called his machine at work and said that her father wasn’t feeling well and she was going to see him.
Her father still lived in the same town house in the gated lakeside community where she’d spent her late-teen and college years. Aside from her education, it was the only lavish expense he’d allowed himself, after selling their house, his furniture business, and her mother’s textile shop in [REDACTED]. Between her college and graduate-school years, he had remarried twice, first to a retired nurse, who went to Port-au-Prince on a medical mission and decided to stay, then to a young beauty-salon owner who had wanted him to cut off all contact with [REDACTED].
Whenever she came to visit her now single father, she loved lying on his gingham, feather-stuffed couch with her head on his lap, as they caught up on each other’s life. He no longer smelled the way he did when she was a girl, like the lemon-and-alcohol-scented furniture varnish, which had given an orange tint to his callused palms. Now he smelled like wet soil, crabgrass and other weeds, tree barks and insect carcasses, like his lakeside garden. He had worked as a carpenter and landscaper for years and was happy, as he often said, to have no other responsibilities but to watch the sun rise and set. He didn’t leave the house much, except when [REDACTED] begged him to join her and Principal Boyfriend for the occasional dinner and holiday meals.
After both his wives had left, he began draping the walls with fabric so that his living room looked exactly like the showroom of her mother’s textile shop, where crêpe, calico, gabardine, satin, and organza filled every spot. But in her father’s house the cloth swayed in the midday breeze.
“You did what?” her father asked, gently running his fingers through her hair.
“I slapped one of the boys in my class yesterday,” she said.
“Any blood?”
“No blood.”
“Then?”
“Then maybe I should quit.”

“Why?” he asked, without even lifting his fingers out of her hair. “Don’t you remember how hard your mother used to beat you because you liked playing with insects so much, because you were like a boy?”
She did remember, as a matter of fact. Not all the time, but every now and then she did. What she remembered most vividly, though, was her mother’s odd advice, suggesting that in some way she could transform herself by rubbing the insects against her chest. It seemed harmless now, that advice, even fantastical. But back then she had taken it seriously. Could her body have, too?

“Your mother loved you so much,” her father went on. He’d spent that whole first night after the shooting in a chair, shaking, and hadn’t said more than three or four words at a time to anyone. “It can’t be. It is not possible.”
From where her head lay on his lap, [REDACTED] could see what in the midday light seemed like two lines of crystal tears sliding down his face.
“When she was pregnant with you,” he said, “she didn’t even want to raise her arms too far above her head, because someone had told her that it could cause the umbilical cord to be wrapped around your neck. She didn’t hit you because she hated you. She wanted you to be better.”
“Better than what?” she asked as she reached up to wipe the tears.
“Better than dirt,” he said. “Better than your classmate who killed her. Better, probably, than the boy you slapped yesterday.”
Where was that classmate now, about whom all she could remember was that he spent his summers in [REDACTED] and could sing along with the radio in three languages?
She had become a teacher, her father knew, in order to find these types of boys early, to detect and save them. But the moment she slapped Paul she’d felt neither guilt nor remorse but retribution, justice.
That afternoon, after school, they were all in her classroom, just as his secretary said they would be. Sometimes when she walked into a place like her classroom or their apartment, a place she’d helped decorate, she felt as though she had breached the threshold of her imagination and was inside her own head.
Principal Boyfriend was sitting behind the small mahogany desk they’d picked out together at a flea market. She had wanted something other than the bland, district-assigned desk, something that reflected her own taste.
On her labeled locker, in the same row as the children’s, she’d pasted laminated replicas of her diplomas and certificates of advanced-training courses from the University of [REDACTED], where they’d met. He had told her to put them out in full view, to assure the parents that their children were being taught by a well-qualified staff.
When [REDACTED] walked in, she tried to envision how many others had already been there that day. The kids, of course, and the day’s substitute teacher. After school, there might also have been counsellors and aides, making suggestions about what measures should be taken.
They had chosen to meet in her classroom, his secretary had said, so that Paul could feel more comfortable telling his story, reënacting the incident even, if he had to. But her own familiarity with everything there confused her. It was as though some of the children had grown up and had become these adults, who were all suddenly irate with her.
Chantal Cazeau sat slouched in the rocking chair, immediately across from Principal Boyfriend. She was flipping through a legal pad filled with notes scribbled in her diminutive handwriting. Paul was at his own desk next to Lorvane, who was wedged into another child’s chair. Lorvane, who had probably been called from work, wore her white-collared indigo uniform. The four of them seemed flat and rigid, like the Velcro figures [REDACTED] sometimes used to mime stories for the children.
Principal Boyfriend seemed torn between his roles, his eyes swerving back and forth to look at each of them. [REDACTED] could see that he was choosing his words carefully. Finally, he simply asked her, “Are you O.K.?”
“Let’s get started.” Chantal Cazeau tapped the legal pad against her palm. “We have quite a bit to cover here.”
It was obvious that she was in charge. He had yielded total control to her for these particular proceedings. Good leadership, he liked to say, like good loving, was knowing when to surrender.
Lorvane got up and reached back to massage her behind, where the chair had left a damp crease.
They were all standing now, all except Paul, who remained quietly at his desk, gripping both sides with clenched fists. He tapped his sneakers against the floor without making any noise.
“First of all, I’d like to let Paul know that it was very brave of him to come forward,” Chantal said, nodding in the child’s direction. “The principal and I are committed to making sure that something like this never happens again.”
“Miss?” Lorvane took a few small, hesitant steps toward [REDACTED]. “They say you slapped my son?”
Lorvane kept moving closer, until [REDACTED] could feel her warm breath on her face, could almost describe, if pressed, what Lorvane had eaten for lunch.
“Yesterday I came to learn to read from you.” Lorvane pursed her lips, just as her son sometimes did during those rare moments when he was still.
“I wanted to come because my son told me what a good teacher you are,” Lorvane continued. “He told me you are patient with him and all the other children. He says you talk to them and explain many things and read all kinds of stories to them every day. I said to myself, ‘I have much to learn from this teacher, this wonderful teacher.’ ”
Lorvane reached toward Paul’s desk and, without taking her eyes off [REDACTED], grabbed him by the shoulders and plopped him between herself and [REDACTED]. His body was obedient and lifeless; his arms hung limply at his sides.
“Am I lying, son?” Lorvane raised the boy’s face toward them. Paul shook his head no. His mouth was closed, but his lips trembled and it seemed to [REDACTED] that, for the first time since she’d known him, he might start to cry.
“Let’s all sit down and talk about this,” Chantal Cazeau said, her voice a few decibels higher than usual.
“You see, Miss,” Lorvane went on, ignoring Chantal. “I would give you the permission to spank my son anytime if he needed it, if it would help him.”
“That’s not the way we do things here,” Principal Boyfriend finally interjected. “We would never hit your son at this school,” he assured Lorvane. “Do you understand?”
“I would sign a paper, if I have to, for spanking,” Lorvane insisted. “But I would never let anyone slap my son.”
Lorvane gently moved Paul aside. Freed, he buried his face behind one of the chairs. Stepping back, Lorvane took a deep breath, then aimed for [REDACTED].
The slap landed on [REDACTED]’s cheek before she could see it coming. Her head swung so quickly that both of her ears tapped against each of her shoulders for a moment. Her cheek throbbed. It felt hot, then warm, then deadened, so that if Lorvane slapped her again she probably wouldn’t feel a thing.

Now she understood the concept of turning the other cheek. It wasn’t so much directed at your neighbor; it was allowing yourself to experience even further pain. Acted out, it would indeed be an extraordinary sacrifice.
“We are finished now,” Lorvane said. “No more meetings. No police. Just teach my child. And remember, ‘Kids are not stupid.’ ”
Lorvane grabbed Paul’s hand and yanked him across the room toward the door. Her voice remained suspended in the room like one of the children’s runaway balloons, the kind they brought to school for birthdays and holidays but never managed to hold on to.
On his way out, with the contented look of the vindicated warrior, Paul turned to face [REDACTED], opened his mouth, and flashed his bare gums in his version of a celebratory smile.
[REDACTED] heard herself breathing loudly as she tried to massage some sensation back into her cheekbone. The door slammed behind Lorvane and Paul, their loud exchange fading as they moved down the hall.
Chantal Cazeau laid her pad on the desk in front of Principal Boyfriend and motioned for [REDACTED] to sit down in the rocking chair. Principal Boyfriend’s gaze was fixed on [REDACTED] as though she and he were alone in one of those dark rooms of his childhood, and he was trying to figure out who she was.
A droning sound, like a telephone dial tone, was ringing in [REDACTED]’s ear, but she thought she heard Principal Boyfriend ask once more, “Are you O.K.?” 

