OLD FRIENDS
By Thomas McGuane

John Briggs was made aware of the fact that some sort of problem existed for his friend and former schoolmate Erik Faucher by the sheer accident of a request for information from their former class secretary, Everett Hoyt, who in the thirty years since they’d graduated from Yale had hardly set foot out of New Haven. With ancestors buried at the old Center Church, in spitting distance of both the regicide Dixwell and Benedict Arnold’s wife, Hoyt was paralyzed by a sense of generational permanence. People said that if he hadn’t got into Yale he wouldn’t have gone to college at all but would have remained at home, waiting to bury his parents. Now, in place of any real social life, he edited the alumni newsletter, often accompanying his requests for official items with small indiscretions. (He called these tidbits, which he delivered with a certain giddiness, “Entre News”; they generally concerned marital failures or business malfeasances, and they almost never made it into the alumni letter.)
Hoyt phoned Briggs at his summer home, in [REDACTED], on a nondescript piece of prairie that Briggs had inherited from a farmer uncle, and, while pretending to hunt up class news, insinuated that Faucher, having embezzled a fortune from a bank in [REDACTED], had gone into hiding. “I’ve heard through private sources that our class scofflaw is now headed your way,” he said.
Briggs waited for Hoyt’s giggle to subside. “I hope so,” he snapped. “I’ve missed Erik.” But once he’d hung up the phone he began to worry that Faucher might actually come.
Faucher’s ex-wife, Carol, having declined to account for the time difference between [REDACTED] and the East Coast, called at five the next morning. “So very nice to hear your voice,” Briggs said. “How are you?”
“I’m calling about Erik. He has not been behaving sensibly at all.”
Briggs absorbed this in silence. He knew that if he said anything at all he’d have to stand up for Faucher, and he wasn’t sure that he wanted to.
“Carol, you’ve been divorced a long time,” he said finally.
“We have mutual interests. I don’t know what sort of plan he has in place. And there’s Elizabeth.” Elizabeth was their daughter.
“I’m sure he’s made a very sensible plan.”
“I don’t want Elizabeth to wind up sleeping in her car. Or me, either, for that matter.”
“I don’t think your argument is with me.” This was in response to her tone.
“Did I say it was? I’m just saying, ‘Help.’ I’m saying, ‘It’s about time you did.’ ”
When Briggs failed to reply, she added, “I know where he’s going and who to put on his trail.”
Briggs’s friendship with Faucher had been long and intermittent. Arbitrarily assigned as roommates at the boarding school they’d attended before Yale—a place built with iron-ore and taconite dollars and modelled on English public schools—the boys had grown up believing that [REDACTED] was a British fantasy and that the true work of the nation was undertaken by pencil-wristed Episcopalians who sang their babies to sleep with Blake’s “Jerusalem” and uttered mild orotundities like “great good fortune” and “safe as houses.” They had also been sold the notion of loyalty, much as the credulous are sold the far-fetched basics of religion.
Briggs and Faucher had become lifelong friends without ever quite getting past the fact that their discomfort with each other occasionally boiled over into active detestation. After college, each had been in the other’s wedding, and they had lived, for a short time, in the same neighborhood in New Haven while they tried to launch their careers. As Briggs began to travel more and more, and Faucher relocated to [REDACTED], their relationship had been reduced, for the most part, to memories, and not ones that either man particularly enjoyed revisiting—though they continued to make sentimental phone calls on holidays and to perform euphoric reënactments of soccer triumphs on the rare occasions when they were actually together. In the subsequent quarter century, although they had spent quite a bit of time begrudging each other’s successes and savoring the failures, thanks to that burdensome code of loyalty, each had done the other a favor. When Briggs was in his twenties and had sunk everything he had into a small mining company in [REDACTED] with ruinous short-term expenses, Faucher had rescued him from bankruptcy by finding a buyer. And when Faucher, on assignment as part of a [REDACTED] Congregationalists’ outreach to hungry Guatemalans, was pulled from the second story of a burning whorehouse, Briggs had called every classmate and pal in journalism in a desperate stand to keep the news out of the papers.
For decades, Briggs and Faucher had each been searching for an unforgivable trait in the other that would relieve him of this abhorrent, possibly lifelong burden. But, now that they had years of history and continuity to contend with, it had become harder and harder to imagine a liberating offense.
Faucher turned up one evening while Briggs was preparing his notes for a company stalemate in [REDACTED], for which he was serving as an independent negotiator. It surprised Briggs that Faucher had managed to find him at all, having ventured forth from the Hertz counter at the Billings airport with nothing but a state map. He arrived with a girl he’d picked up on the way, whose feral screeches in the upstairs guest room were soon clearly audible to Briggs. Her name was Marjorie, Faucher said—“Marge, short for margarine, the cheap spread.” This was not the sort of remark that Briggs appreciated and was therefore exactly in the style to which Faucher had gravitated over the years. Around midnight, Faucher reeled downstairs to inquire, with a hitch of his head, “Do you want some of this?”
“Oh, no,” Briggs said. “All for you.”
Thereafter, Marjorie, who seemed an attractive and reasonable girl once she started sobering up, came downstairs to complain that Faucher had asked her to brush his teeth for him. Briggs advised her to be patient—Faucher would soon realize that he had to brush his own teeth and would then go to sleep. Briggs offered her the rollout on the sunporch, but she returned to Faucher wearily, having first gone to the front window to cast a longing eye at the rental car. She wore a negligee that just reached her hips and, as she slowly climbed the stairs, presented a view that was somewhat veterinary in quality. The aroma of gin trailed her. When Briggs went to bed, he thought, I don’t know anyone who drinks gin anymore. He couldn’t understand why this fact annoyed him. A full moon showing through the blinds left bands of cool light on the walls. The CD of Segovia that he’d put on at minimum volume to help him sleep cycled on—“Recuerdos de la Alhambra,” again and again.
He hadn’t been asleep for long when he was awakened by noises. In the kitchen there were intruders. Briggs heard them thumping around and opening cupboards and speaking in muffled tones. He wondered for a moment if he had forgotten that he was expecting someone. Once out of bed, he slipped into his closet, where his twelve-gauge resided on parallel coat hooks for just such a time as this. Briggs quietly chambered two shells and lifted the barrels until the lock closed.

In the living room, he knelt behind the big floral wing chair that faced the fireplace and its still dying embers. From here, he could see the intruders as silhouettes, moving around the kitchen, briefly illuminated by the refrigerator light. He lifted the gun and, resting it on the back of the chair, levelled it at the closest figure. Only then did he recognize the man as his nearest neighbor, with whom he shared a water right from the irrigation ditch and a relationship that strained to be pleasant; the other intruder was the man’s wife, a snappish, leanly attractive farm woman, who was less diplomatic in concealing her distaste for Briggs. Listening to their conversation, Briggs understood that they had expected him to be out of town and that they were raiding his refrigerator for beer. On reflection, he decided that confronting them would create waves of difficulty for him in the future, and that this episode would be best forgotten or set aside for use another time. So he put the gun away and crept back to bed. The neighbors departed a short time later with a farewell fling of beer cans into his roses.
Faucher’s voice came from the top of the stairs. “Were those people looking for me?” he demanded.
“No, Erik. Go back to sleep. They’ve gone,” Briggs replied.
Marjorie was the first up: she had a remedial geometry class to teach at the high school. “Always a challenge after a long night,” she explained to Briggs. She wore a pleated blue skirt and a pale-green sweater that buttoned at the throat. Her hair was drawn back from a prettily modelled forehead. She was at the stove, one hand on a hip, the other managing a spatula. “Potatoes O’Brien and eggs. Then I’ve got to run.”
“You don’t have to cook.”
“Oh, I can’t have a day with missing pieces.” She cast a brilliant smile his way, and held it just long enough to suggest that he’d missed the boat. Erik wouldn’t be getting up for breakfast, because, Marjorie explained, he had an upset tummy. She held the spatula in the air while she said this, suggesting with a quoting motion that she was only repeating the facts as they’d been given to her. Then she made an upset-tummy face. Marjorie reminded Briggs of teachers he’d had—punctilious, too ready to use physical gestures to explain the obvious, a hint of the scold. They ate together with the unexpected comfort of strangers at a diner. She paid absolute attention to her food, looking up at him intermittently. She raised a forefinger.
“First thing he said to me was ‘You’re amazing.’ I have learned that when they tell you you’re amazing it’s over before it starts.”
“Just as well. Neither of you was feeling any pain.”
“I never have any idea what will happen when I get drunk. But why would you get drunk if you knew what was going to happen?” she said. “You probably get off just watching other people make mistakes. That’s not a nice trait, Mr. Briggs!”
She smoothed her skirt and checked it for crumbs. “I’m out of here,” she said as she stood up. “What’s the weather like?” She went to the window and craned to see the sky. “Not too bad. O.K., bye.”
When Briggs heard the shower start upstairs, he went outside and smelled the new morning wind coming through the fields. There were a few small white clouds gathering in the east, and a quarter mile off he could see a harrier working its way just over the surface of the hills. From time to time, it swung up to pivot on a wingtip, and then resumed its sweep. The window of the upstairs bathroom opened and a wisp of steam came out, followed by the head of Erik Faucher. “John! What a morning!” Briggs was filled with a sudden, unexpected fondness for Faucher. This feeling lasted only until Faucher began singing in the shower, and Briggs found his presence insufferable again.
Faucher appeared in the yard in light-colored pleated pants, a hemp belt, and a long-sleeved blue cotton shirt. Though his hair was gunmetal gray, he still had the vigorous black eyebrows that Briggs associated with his French blood. Raising them, he told Briggs that he’d flown in from [REDACTED], following an itinerary that was slightly less convenient than a trip to [REDACTED], now that centralized air-routing had made [REDACTED] oddly more remote. He didn’t seem tired or hung over, and his frame looked well exercised. “I see Marge made off with the rental car,” he said.
Briggs made him some coffee and a piece of toast, which he nibbled cautiously while reading the obituaries in a week-old Billings Gazette. “One of these Indians dies, they list every relative in the world. This one has three columns of kinfolk—Falls Down, Bird in Ground, Spotted Bear, Tall Enemy, Pretty on Top. Where does it end? And all their affiliations! The True Cross Evangelical Church, the Whistling Water Clan, the Bad War Deeds Clan. All I ever belonged to was Skull and Bones, and I ain’t too proud of that! So please don’t list it when I go. I’m no Indian!”
Briggs eyed the bright prairie sun that was working its way across the window behind the sink. He treasured his solitary spells in this house, as infrequent as they were, and he tended to waste very few minutes of them. This one, it seemed, was doomed.
“Look at us, John, two lonely middle-aged guys.”
“Filled with hope.”
“Not me, John. But I’m expecting that [REDACTED] will change all that. One of my great regrets,” Faucher said solemnly, “is that when we were young, married, and almost always drunk we didn’t take a little time out to fuck each other’s beautiful wives.”
“That time has come and gone,” Briggs said.
“A fellow should smell the roses once in a while. Now those two are servicing others. Perhaps in intimate moments they tell their new men how unsatisfactory we were.”
“Very plausible.”
Their wives had despised each other. Carol was a classic, now extinct type from Cold Spring Harbor, [REDACTED]. Having attended Mount Holyoke, she had felt it her mission to carry forward to new generations the Mount Holyoke world view. When their daughter, Elizabeth, was expelled from the college for drug use, Faucher’s suggestion that there were other, possibly more forgiving institutions had placed him permanently outside the wall that sheltered his wife and child. When, even with certified rehabilitation, Elizabeth failed to be reinstated at Mount Holyoke, she lost interest in college altogether and joined the Navy, where she was immediately happy as a machinist’s mate. Faucher was bankrupt by then, a result of habitual overextension, and his inability to support Carol in the style to which she had been accustomed led to divorce, and to Carol’s current position as a receptionist at a hearing-aid outlet on Route 90 between [REDACTED] and Natick. Relatively few years had brought them to this point and neither quite understood how.
Briggs had always been quite uncomfortable with Carol, and he had been greatly relieved when it was no longer necessary for the two of them to speak. His own wife, Irena, had been a beauty, a big-eyed, russet-haired trilingual girl from Ljubljana whom he’d met at a trade conference in 4974616c79, where she was translating and he was negotiating for a Yugoslav-556e6974656420537461746573n businessman whose family’s property had been nationalized by the Communists. John and Irena were married for only a few years—long enough for her to come to know and loathe the Fauchers. Briggs wasn’t sure what else had gone wrong, except that she’d never much liked [REDACTED] and had been continually exasperated by 556e6974656420537461746573ns’ assumption that Briggs had somehow rescued her. In the end, aroused by the independence of Slovenia, she grew homesick and left, but not before remarking that Carol was a pig and Erik was a goat.

All of which lent Faucher’s wife-swapping lament its own particular comedy.
“Don’t worry about me overstaying my welcome,” Faucher said. “I’m quite considerate that way.”
“Farthest thing from my mind,” Briggs said. “Let’s go for a walk.”
“Do you have an answering machine?”
“Yes, and I’ve turned it on.”
“A walk would be good,” Faucher said. “We’ll teach those fools to wait for the beep.”
“I want you to see the homestead cemetery. It’s been fenced off for eighty years and still has all the old prairie flowers that are gone everywhere else. I have some forebears there.”
They followed a seasonal creek toward the low hills in the west where the late-morning sun illuminated towering white clouds. The air was so clear that their shadows could be seen on the grass hillsides like birthmarks. Faucher seemed happier.
“I’m so glad to get out of [REDACTED],” he said. “It was unbelievably muggy. There was a four-day teachers’ demonstration across from my apartment—you know, where they go, ‘Hey, hey, ho, ho, we don’t want to . . .’ whatever. Four days. Sweating and listening to those turds chant.”
Briggs could see the grove of ash and alders at the cemetery just emerging from the horizon as they hiked. About twice a summer, very old people with [REDACTED] or [REDACTED] plates came, mowed the grass, and otherwise tended the few graves: most homesteaders had been starved out before they’d had time to die. These were the witnesses.
As they came over a slight rise, a sheet of standing rainwater was revealed in an old buffalo wallow; a coyote lit out across the water with unbelievable acceleration, leaving fifteen yards of pluming rooster tails behind him. Faucher gazed for a moment, then said, “That was no dog. You could run a hundred of them by me and I’d never say it was a dog. Not me.”
At the little graveyard, Briggs said, “All screwed by the government.” He was standing in front of his family graves, which were just like the others—names, dates, nothing else. “Cattle haven’t been able to get in here since the thirties. The plants are here, the old heritage flowers and grasses. Surely you think that’s interesting.”
“I’m going to have to take your word for it.”
“Erik, look at what’s in front of you,” Briggs said, more sharply than he’d intended, but Faucher just stared off into the distance, not seeming to hear him.
Needle and thread, buffalo, and orchard grass spread like a billowing counterpane around the small headstones. Shining through were shooting stars, pasqueflowers, prairie smoke, arrow-leaf balsamroot, and wild roses, amid small clouds of bees and darting blue butterflies. A huge cottonwood sheltered it all. Off to one side was a vigorous bull thistle that had passed unnoticed by the people in battered sedans, hard old people who didn’t talk, taking turns with the scythe. They looked into cellar holes and said, “We grew up here.” No sense in conveying any of this to Faucher, who was mooning by the old fence.
“I could stand a nap,” he said.
“Then that’s what you shall have. But in the meantime please try to get something out of these surroundings. It’s tiresome just towing you around.”
“I was imagining laying my weary bones among these dead. In the words of Chief Joseph, ‘From here I will fight no more forever.’ Who was in the house last night?”
“That was my neighbor and his wife.They stopped by for a beer.”
“Well, I guess you know your own society. That would seem very strange in [REDACTED].”
From the alcove off his bedroom, which served as an office, Briggs could look through the old glass windows with their bubbles and imperfections and see Faucher sitting on the lawn, arms propped behind him, face angled into the sun like a girl in a Coppertone ad. Briggs was negotiating for a tiny community in [REDACTED] that was being blackmailed by a flag manufacturer for tax millage against purported operating costs, absent which the manufacturer threatened to close the plant and strand two hundred and fifty-one minimum-wage workers. A [REDACTED] village that had lost its pulp mill wanted the flag company, and even if Briggs worked as hard as he could one town would die.
He explained this to Faucher as they drove to town for dinner. Faucher made a waving movement with his hand and said “Hasta la vista” to whichever town it was that had to disappear. But it was otherwise a nice ride down the valley, mountains emerging below fair-weather altocumulus clouds, small ranches on either side at the heads of sparkling creeks. A self-propelled swather followed by ravens moved down a field, pivoting nimbly at the end of each row, while in the next meadow, already gleaned, a wheel-line sprinkler emitted a low fog on the regrowth. A boy in a straw hat stood at a concrete headgate and, turning a wheel, let a flood of irrigation water race down a dusty ditch.
Town was three churches, a row of bars, a hotel with a restaurant, and a filling station. Each church had a framed announcement board standing in front, the Catholic with Mass schedules, the Lutheran with a passage from the Bible, and the Evangelical with a warning. The bars, likewise, had bright signs inviting ranchers, families, sportsmen, and motorcyclists, respectively. Entirely different kinds of vehicles were parked in front of each: old sedans in front of the ranchers’ bar, pickup trucks in front of the local video-gaming youth-cult stop, and in front of the hotel some foreign models from Bozeman and Livingston. The clouds were moving fast now, and when Briggs got out of the car the hotel towering over him looked like the prow of a ship crossing a pale-blue ocean.
Faucher scanned his menu vigorously. “My God, this all looks good,” he said. “And it’ll look even better after a stunning bourbon-and-ditch.” He was like a vampire coming to life at sundown; pale flames arose beneath his skin with each cocktail.
They ordered their dinner from a ruddy-faced girl who seemed excited by every choice they made. She had a Fritz the Cat tattoo on her upper arm, which Faucher peered at over the top of his menu. Briggs asked for a bottle of Bandol as well, and, when the candles had been lit, he assumed that it was time for Faucher to make himself plain.
But then the mayor came to the table, with the vibrant, merry hustle with which he generally drew attention to himself. Briggs introduced him to Faucher, who smiled patiently and stared at the man’s fringed vest. Following the local convention, the mayor asked Briggs when he’d got back.
“I’ve been back about five times this summer,” Briggs said. “From [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], Surinam.” He was always exasperated at being asked this question. The mayor held his head in his hands.
“Surinam! Never heard of it! [REDACTED] I’ve heard of! What’s in Surinam?”
“Bauxite.”
“Baux—”
“Pal,” Faucher said. “Give it a rest. We’re trying to eat.” He made a shooing motion and the mayor left. Faucher raised his eyebrows as he asked Briggs, “How can we miss him if he won’t go away?”

The last time Briggs had seen Faucher, he had been insuring marine cargo out of a nice office on Old Colony Avenue in [REDACTED] and doing rather well, especially in the early days when Everett Hoyt had tipped him off to opportunities with former classmates. Now, Faucher said, he was an investment adviser at a tiny merchant bank in [REDACTED]. He liked to meet his clients in St. Louis Square on warm spring days (he had a key) to lay out the year’s strategy—clients who were charmed by his arrival on a Raleigh ten-speed. He kept a hunter-jumper at Beverly and dropped into equestrian talk to baffle the credulous, using terms like levade and piaffe and volte to describe the commonplace trades he made, or comparing a sustained investment strategy to such esoterica as Raimondo D’Inzeo’s taking the Irish Bank at Aachen on the great Merano. His own equestrian activities, he admitted, consisted of jumping obstacles that would scarcely weary a poodle, in the company of eight- and nine-year-old girls, under the tutelage of the roaring Madame Schacter, a tyrant in jodhpurs. Still, for his clientele, horses and yachts were reassuring entities, things to which one could turn one’s attention when times were good.
Current times, however, were not at all good. Once, Faucher had been able to make cavalier decisions about his clients’ investments; lately, they trusted him less and obliged him to chase obscure indices across the moonscape of foreign equities.
The dining room was full, and the neighboring bar nearly so. Briggs spotted Marjorie at the bar but thought it best not to mention it.
Faucher said, “John, I’ve got to tell you, I’m burning out. Nothing makes me happy anymore. I need new work. I want to be more like you. I need a gimmick. You get the time-zone watch from Sharper Image, and the rest is a walk in the park. Whereas my job is to reassure people who are afraid to lose what they have because they don’t know how they got it in the first place. John, it’s not that I mind lying, but I like variety and I’m not getting it.” His face was mottled with an emotion that Briggs found difficult to fathom. “I desperately wish to be a cowboy,” Faucher concluded.
“That family”—he added, pointing conspicuously at a nearby table where a rancher, his wife, and their three nearly grown children were at their meal—“have been here for an hour and haven’t spoken to each other once. Don’t these people know how to have fun?” The family heard this, the father glaring into the space just over his plate, his wife grinning in fear at a mustard jar. “We do that when we hate people,” Faucher said.
“I don’t think they hate each other, Erik.”
“Well, it sure looks like it! I’ve never seen such depressing people.”
Marjorie proceeded from the bar with a tall, colorful drink. She was wearing a red tunic with military buttons over a short skirt and boots, her hair pulled tight and tied straight atop her head with a silver ribbon. Briggs was glad to see her: she looked full of life. She said, “May I?”
Briggs quickly got to his feet and pulled out a chair, steadying her arm as she sat. Faucher looked glum. He said in an unconvincing monotone, “Sorry I missed you this morning. I understand you cooked a marvellous breakfast.”
“It filled us up, didn’t it?” she said to Briggs.
“All we could eat and no leftovers,” Briggs agreed.
“What’d you do with the rental car?” Faucher barked.
“In front of the bank, keys under the seat.”
Faucher lost interest in the car. “Not like I’ll need it,” he said with a moan.
The ranch family stood without looking at one another, an action that obliged at least two of them to survey the crown molding on the walls. The father glared at Faucher and dribbled some coins to the table from a huge paw while his waitress scowled from across the room. Karaoke had started at the bar, and a beaming wheat farmer was singing “That’s Amore.”
“Can I get a menu?” Marjorie asked, craning around the room.
“Has it possibly occurred to you that we’re having a private conversation?” Faucher said.
Marjorie stopped all animation for a moment. “Oh, I’m so sorry.” She looked crushed as she arose. Briggs tried to smile and opened his hands helplessly. She gave him a little wave, paused uncertainly, picked up her drink, then turned toward the bar and was gone. Briggs’s face was red. He practically shouted, “I’m surprised you have any friends at all!”
“I only have one: you.”
“Well, don’t count on that, if you continue in this vein.”
“I suppose it made sense for me to change planes twice and rent a car to have you address me with such loftiness,” Faucher wailed. “I came to you in need, but your ascent to the frowning classes must make that unclear.”
After dinner, they had a glass of brandy. Marjorie appeared on the karaoke floor and managed to raise the volume as she belted out “Another Somebody Done Somebody Wrong Song,” followed immediately by a ghastly imitation of Cher, all pursed lips and slumberous eyes, doing “I Got You Babe.” She directed various Frug moves and Vegas gestures Faucher’s way. Feeling under attack, Faucher urged Briggs to call for the bill and pay it promptly. “I can’t believe how quickly things have gone downhill,” he said, hunched over as if under mortar fire.
 
Marjorie followed them out of the bar. She was so angry she moved in jerks. She walked straight over to Briggs and said, “You think you’re above all this, don’t you?” Then she slapped him across the face, so astonishing him that he neither raised a protective hand nor averted the now stinging cheek. “You want another one?” she inquired, lips flattened against her teeth.
“I think I’ll hold off,” Briggs said.
“Ask yourself what Jesus would do,” Faucher suggested.
Marjorie whirled on him, and Briggs hurried away toward the boarded-up mercantile store where he’d parked; Faucher joined him. When they got to the car, they looked back to see Marjorie’s friends restraining her theatrically by the arms. A cowboy with a goatee and a jet-black Stetson stared ominously as they were forced to pass close to him in order to get out of the lot.
“Don’t drive next to them, for Chrissakes!” Faucher said. “The big one is about to come out of the bag!”
Faucher mused as they drove south into the piney hills and grassland. “People have become addicted to hidden causes. That’s why you were the one to get slapped. They’ve been trained to mistrust anything that’s right in front of their eyes. Oh, John, my path has been uneven. I’ve made so many enemies. Some of them intend to hunt me with dogs.”
“Outlast them.” Briggs listlessly watched the road for deer, vaguely hoping that whoever happened to be hunting Faucher with dogs would be lucky enough to catch him.
“I hope I can. Really, I’ve come here because you never quite give up on me, do you?”

“We are old friends,” Briggs droned.
“Perhaps once I’m a cowboy you’ll invest your remarks with greater meaning. Anyway, to continue my saga: I knew the noose was tightening, but I had been so diligent over the years at helping my clients improperly state assets for death taxes that I expected them to drop all complaints against me.”
It seemed that Faucher had lost important inhibitions, however; he’d crossed the line, running afoul of the law at several points, including attempted blackmail. When one of his clients, with whom he had reached a mutually satisfactory agreement trading forgiveness for secrecy, died, snoopy children arrived in Faucher’s world, followed by investigators, and, “Net-net, I’m on the run.”
Just before sunrise, Briggs heard Faucher calling to him. He climbed the stairs, pulling on a sweatshirt and shorts, and entered the guest room. He found Faucher kneeling next to the window, curtains pulled back slightly, gesturing for Briggs to join him.
In the yard below, two men stood smoking next to a vehicle with government plates. “They’re here for me, John,” Faucher said. “I can’t believe you did this. Now I’m going to jail.”
“You know perfectly well that I didn’t do this,” Briggs said. But nothing could prevent him from feeling unreasonably guilty.
“Judas Iscariot—that’s how I shall always know you.”
They carried Faucher away. Briggs ran alongside in an L. L. Bean bathrobe pouring out offers of help, but Faucher waved him off like a man shooing flies.
The weather began to change, and the high white clouds moved across the horizon, leaving ghostly streaks in their place. One quiet afternoon, while Briggs was going over the casework he’d take on after the demise of the town in [REDACTED]—mine mitigation in Manitoba, bike paths, a public swimming pool, a library wing given in exchange for ground permanently poisoned by cyanide—the phone rang. It was Carol. She brought him the news that Faucher was going to prison. He had been ruinously disagreeable in court, inflating the sentences to which his crimes had already given rise. She aired this as yet another grievance, as though little good could be extracted from Faucher now. “You were with him, John. Why didn’t you help him?”
“I didn’t know how to help him. We were just spending time together.”
“You were just spending time together?”
“I’m afraid that’s it. I feel I wasn’t very perceptive.”
“You have my agreement on that,” Carol said. “He left you literally eager for imprisonment. You had a chance to put him back on his feet and you let him fall.”
“Well, I don’t know the facts. I—”
“You don’t need to know the facts. You need to listen to what I’m telling you.”
“Carol, I don’t think you understand how tiresome you’ve become.”
“Is that your way of commiserating with me?”
“Yes,” Briggs said simply. “Yes, Carol, it is.”
At times, Briggs worried that there was something he should have done. The whole experience had been like missing a catch on the high trapeze: the acrobat is pulling away from you, falling into the distance. Or perhaps the acrobat is pulling you off your own trapeze. Neither thought was pleasant.
It was inevitable that Briggs would get worked over once again for the newsletter. Hoyt wanted to know how Briggs had found Faucher. “Breathing,” Briggs said.
“You’ve got good air out there,” Hoyt said. “I’ll give you that.”
That November, while on his way to the town in [REDACTED] that he had saved from oblivion, Briggs stopped in [REDACTED], rented a car, and drove to the prison at Walpole. Faucher refused to see him. In the pale-green visitors’ room, Briggs rose slowly to acknowledge the uniformed custodian who bore the rejection. He was furious.
But once he was seated on the plane, drink in hand, looking out onto the runway at men pushing carts, a forklift wheeling along a train of red lights, a neighboring jet pushing back, he felt a little better. His second drink was delivered reluctantly by a harried stewardess—and only because Briggs told her that he was on his way to his mother’s funeral. At this point, a glow seemed to form around Briggs’s seatmate and Briggs struck up a conversation with him, ordering drinks for both of them as soon as the plane was airborne. The seatmate, an unfriendly black man who worked for Prudential Insurance, actually was going to a funeral, the funeral of a friend, and this revelation triggered a slightly euphoric summary of Briggs’s friendship with Faucher, delivered in remarkable detail, considering that Briggs’s companion was trying to read. Briggs concluded his description of his visit to the prison and Faucher’s refusal to see him by raising his arms in the air and crying, “Hallelujah!,” a gesture that made him realize, instantly, that he had had enough to drink. The seatmate narrowed his eyes, and when Briggs explained that, at long last, that chapter of his life was over, the man, turning back to his open book, said wearily, “Do you actually believe that?” 

