HANWELL IN HELL

I am looking to enter into correspondence with anyone who remembers my father, Mr. —— Hanwell, who was living in the central [REDACTED] area between 1970 and 1973. Any details at all will be gratefully received by daughter trying to piece together the jigsaw. Please write back to P.O. Box 187.
I spent just one night with your father, in [REDACTED], thirty-four years ago. He was down on his luck at the time, as was I. We had both suffered dramatic reversals of fortune and recognized immediately that we had failure in common—a rare example of masculine intuition. Each sniffed out the other’s catastrophe. For my part, I had lost my livelihood and my house; I spent the spring of that year bewildered and outraged, almost unable to comprehend that I now lived in a gruesome basement flat in which lichen seemed to grow upon every damp surface. A crooked business partner who took cash under the counter, compounded by my own careless accounting, had separated me from my business (a small chain of [REDACTED] off-licenses) so completely that I was reduced to a salesman’s existence. I hawked the new American fridge-freezers from a catalogue, door-to-door. It was a dismal job and one that required me to spend a humiliating amount of time—or so I thought then—with women. In the off-licenses, all my staff had been men, and I always appreciated the fact; emotionally men are so much simpler. My new job made me feel as if I were being returned to the domestic scenes of my childhood. I seemed always to be in kitchens having cups of tea pressed upon me, repelling the timid advances of motherly women. Hanwell’s situation was of course somewhat reversed: he valued the domestic and lamented its loss; with it went all the things he cared for—women, the home, family. You ask in your letter if I know why you and your sisters were left in [REDACTED]—I don’t know, but it must have been against his will. No one would choose the life that Hanwell had.
When I met him, he was washing dishes in Barry Franks’s first restaurant, halfway up the hill on Park Street. It is easy to forget now that Barry Franks was not born on the BBC holding a glass of red in one hand and his own cookery book in the other. That came later, at a time in [REDACTED] when people seemed able to lasso the moon quite as easily as Hanwell and I, ten years earlier, had managed to plummet beneath acceptability. In 1970, Barry Franks was only the owner of a mediocre Continental bistro, eponymously named. The cassoulet was gray, the veal chewy. You didn’t go to Franks for the food. It was that rare thing: a place with atmosphere. Franks was a legendary drunk even then, and he brought the freewheeling uncertainty of that condition to every corner of his place. Although its pretense of sophistication seems ridiculous now—the Chianti bottles hugged by raffia, the red-and-white checked tablecloths—its clientele never were; the mix of the great, the good, and the not-so-good was exhilarating. Franks was the most popular place in the city after nine in the evening, and it was natural to assume, as I did, that the owner of a place like this need only flip the “open” sign and watch the money roll in, but it was not so. Franks was steadily drinking away the profits. He was in such severe debt with the local heavies that he had been compelled to give up the entire back room to them and their pleasures. You could never get a table in that room; you could only sit at the curious walnut church pews that lined two walls and look on at the scene—table after table of wardrobe-shouldered goons with girls on their knees. I never saw them pay a penny for anything. Barry Franks once admitted to me that the unpaid tab came to six thousand pounds, an astronomical sum at the time. I could have bought a good flat in town for that money. Supposedly the goons were the scions of two local Italian families in the ice-cream business, but whatever Italian blood they possessed had been thoroughly diluted in the Avon. West Country people are as sallow as any European, and these ones looked and sounded no different from the rest of us. Their suits were tighter, that was all. And they were sentimental about beauty—sometimes it seemed that all their criminal machinations were merely the quickest route at their disposal to those high roads that lead to beautiful food and beautiful music and beautiful women. It was their idea to turn Franks into a kind of jazz bar, and to this end a five-piece band of white 556e69746564204b696e67646f6dians meticulously and earnestly imitated Louis Armstrong’s Hot Five on a little makeshift stage in the back room. I liked the band, especially their precise fingers, neither inspired nor fussy but always accurate. When you feel lost in the world, there is some joy to be gleaned from exact imitations of familiar things.
The night I met Hanwell, I came in very late with a girl I was seeing at the time. Her name is lost to me, but the outline of her chest is not—huge, carefully wrapped and cantilevered, like a present on a shelf which she had not yet decided to give away. She was thirty years my junior and also a diluted Italian, although she was still taking her Catholicism neat. I had spent the better part of five hours that evening—in my flat, in my car, in the cinema, and in a park—persistently trying to get my hand to go where she would not have it go. By the time we reached Franks, we were both exhausted and bad-tempered and the maître d’s familiar complacent explanation that the back room was “fully occupied” suddenly enraged me. I kicked up the kind of fuss that I, having no power, had no right to kick up, while the fellow nodded solicitously, all the time continuing to discreetly direct his waiters to this table and that.
“But it is occupied,” he repeated in that odious way, as if the back room were a bathroom; he was waiting for me to finish making a fool of myself. I remember the girl laid her hand on my biceps as if in expectation of one of those ludicrous displays of machismo so common in the kind of [REDACTED] schlock we had just seen at the Odeon. But she was out with the wrong type of man for that. We were led meekly to the church pews to sit alongside other couples with drinks on their knees, but at the last minute a fat man and his friend rose to leave a table just behind me—I pushed the girl quickly into the vacated seat and took the one beside her. The maître d’ shrugged as if to say the consequences would not be his responsibility. I ordered two osso bucos, although it was already eleven and neither of us was remotely hungry. I was perversely determined to get the maximum of whatever enjoyment was available out of the best seats at Franks. How good could it possibly feel to sit here? The band was loud, and the two of us turned our chairs to face the stage—a welcome relief from looking at each other. The trumpeter stood up to do his solo, and then the clarinet player did the same; the bassist leaned forward for his minute in the sun and jauntily spun his massive instrument; the pianist lifted lightly from his seat when his turn came; the drummer, not able to change his position much, liked to bend his head low and lean into his drums, raising his elbows high at the moment the rest of the band fell silent. The solos went round three or four times before I remembered our food and noticed the angry mutterings from other tables. It was not uncommon for meals to turn up late at Franks, but this was a complete meltdown; the whole room was waiting to be served.

Suddenly, a sandy-haired, balding man with a pensioner’s forlorn pink bulb on the end of his nose plonked down two plates in front of us. On both plates three French crêpes, stuffed with a creamy prawn-and-mushroom mixture, sat in a pretty triangle formation. The man was dressed not like a waiter or a chef but like a dishwasher, his dirty sleeves turned up. Sweat sprung from every pink pore in his innocent face. He smiled at us hopefully. Before we had a chance to object, he had moved on to the next table, passing out more of these crêpes that nobody had ordered. For a minute the noise of consternation reached a pitch and threatened to topple over into revolution—but most of the clientele, like me, were too drunk and too weary, and then the first mouthful was sampled, and it was extremely good; we quieted down. The crêpes were not fussy like Barry Franks’s food, and they had no pinchbeck pretensions—if your 4672616e6365ian grandmother had to rustle something up at the last minute, she might cook those crêpes. Since that evening, I have passed many nights in restaurants far better than Franks, but I can’t think of a meal I’ve enjoyed more. Just after midnight, the man passed by our table again, and I stopped him.
“Malfunction in the kitchen?”
He looked at me warily and said nothing. I wondered then whether his innocence went all the way down; his face was so devoid of guile your first instinct was to think him a simpleton of some kind.
“What’s your name?”
“Hanwell, sir.”
“I’m Clive, Clive Black. I’d like to shake the hand of the chef.”
He looked at my hand but did not touch it. It was strange to have him call me sir—Franks wasn’t restaurant enough for such civilities. And looking at him more closely I realized Hanwell was too bald too early; he was still in his very early forties, and I was only ten years older.
“Did you make these?” I tried again.
“They were delicious,” the girl said, extravagantly. Maybe she even licked one of her stubby fingers. Hanwell bit his lip. He seemed to be preparing to lie but then thought better of it.
“Well, yes. Were they all right?”
“They were more than all right. Best food I’ve ever had in here.”
“I’m sure that’s not true, sir.”
“It’s completely true. What’s wrong with Franks, then? Tight again, is he?”
“He’s feeling a bit under the weather. High temperature,” Hanwell said, loyally, looking away. I smiled.
“It’s amazing how many high temperatures Franks gets. He’s like a five-year-old child.”
I took out a cigarillo—the one luxury I refused to give up—and offered him one. He declined. “He’s very lucky to have you to cover for him last minute.”
“I’m glad you enjoyed the food, sir,” said Hanwell tersely, and turned to go. But I wouldn’t let him. There was something so compelling to me about him; I had the sense that he came from better things than this but that his fall had not debilitated him or made him as bitter as mine had made me.
“Where did you learn to cook like that?”
Hanwell was looking about him fearfully for whoever it was who was going to give him his next instruction. I had already guessed that he had the lowest job in the place, and a quick glance at the floor confirmed this. The toes of both his shoes were soaking wet.
“What, sir?”
“Don’t call me sir. I’ve told you, it’s Clive. Cooking—where did you learn?”
“Well, you pick up a bit here, a bit there, don’t you,” he said, reddening. “And I was in [REDACTED] in ’44—I suppose that helped a bit.”
“Were you? So was I. You must have been barely out of short trousers.”
We exchanged ranks, regiments, places, and dates. He was fluent but not overly forthcoming. He had been a private, I a lieutenant. I asked him to sit down, but again he refused.
“Come on, now, one drink—won’t kill you. I can square it with Franks, if he’s still conscious. He owes me a favor. By the bye, do you know what those crêpes reminded me of? The French House—in [REDACTED], in Soho. They have a starter just like that.”
For the first time, Hanwell smiled at me, a coy operation that used only half of his mouth.
“Yes, I’ve eaten them there—I used to work in Soho. Dean Street.”
“But what in God’s name are you doing in this hellhole?”
Hanwell’s face shut up shop for the day. His bulb nose ceased to shine, his eyelids sunk low.
“I should be getting back to work.”
“Look, sit down, sit down, ten minutes—honestly, we’d like you to.”
My girl smiled falsely, excused herself, and went to the bathroom. Hanwell sat. We talked of [REDACTED] a little, especially of [REDACTED] (I remember very clearly a funny phrase he used: “It was [REDACTED] that gave me a polish”), and discovered we were both East Anglians, he from dreary Ipswich, I from dreary Norwich—quieter, altogether less dramatic surroundings than we found ourselves in now. I realized we had both spent a training period in bleak Felixstowe before leaving for Normandy, though we had landed at the beach at different times. I am not averse to war stories and tried to push him for a little more, but Hanwell wouldn’t have it.
“Different life,” he said dully, and finally accepted a cigarillo from me.
In all my probing, I could not get from him what I wanted: a clear sense of his class. He could have been a butcher’s son or a schoolteacher’s son or even a civil servant’s son—upon every topic he knew just enough to get by, veering away whenever he was in the slightest trouble. He was the kind of man who knew two things about every book you could mention, though he might never have held the book itself in his hands. Several times, one waiter or another came over to retrieve him, but I waved them off. No one could produce Franks, the real authority in the place, and there was only half an hour till closing. After a while, Hanwell relaxed and told a filthy story about a German brothel, all the time wearing that half smile, and ingratiating himself with my girl by answering her un-Catholic questions concerning what German whores wore and what their bedrooms looked liked and whether or not they reclined in chaise longues, an item of furniture she pronounced in as strange a manner as could be imagined. That Hanwell was more of a success with the girl than I was irritated me, but for some reason I took it out on her, not him. I began to tailor the conversation strictly to “men’s business”—cars and the [REDACTED] dog tracks and other subjects I had no real interest in. The girl fell into a deep sulk and finally left without me.
“She’s a beauty,” Hanwell said as we watched her go. “It makes me feel better, knowing there are women as beautiful as that in the world.”
“Really. It makes me feel worse.”
“It’s like a signal . . . ” Hanwell began, and said no more.

“What do you mean, a signal?”
“It’s only a notion I have . . . stupid notion.”
“No, go on—I didn’t understand you.”
“A signal that the world is good. Beautiful women help you know that.”
I laughed out loud at this.
“Even if you can’t bloody have them?”
“Especially then.”
The band came to a clattering stop after playing something terribly fast in which the trumpet squealed like a train braking. Hanwell was pushing the wet butt of his cigarillo round and round a small china plate.
“You’re an odd one, Hanwell,” I said into the silence.
“I’m just an optimist,” said Hanwell.
Just then, Hanwell was called away once and for all. Franks had finally roused himself in the kitchen and sent for him. I remember that it was only when he left the table that I realized Hanwell’s glass of Chianti had barely been touched; the girl didn’t drink; I must have drunk the whole bottle that was now sitting empty before me. I ordered a tumbler of water, drained it, and began discreetly to refill it with whiskey from my own flask. I dreaded going back to that awful flat. I sat and watched the night fold itself up around me, pack itself away. The double bass was zipped into its big black pajamas. The clarinet player delicately removed his reed and put it to bed in a swaddle of cotton. At some point I must have put my head on the table.
“Mr. Black? Mr. Black?”
Hanwell’s hands were on my shoulders, gently shaking me.
“Mr. Black, we’re closing now.”
“Hanwell?”
“Yes, Mr. Black—Hanwell. You’ll have to be going now, sir.”
“It’s Clive—how many times? What time is it, anyway?”
“It’s one in the morning, Clive,” said Hanwell solemnly, and I saw that his first instinct had been right—“sir” sounded so much more natural in his mouth.
Hanwell walked me to the door. We both took our coats and hats from the hooks in the hallway.
“You leaving, too?”
“I’ve got a home to go to,” he said, a little defensively. “Just like anyone.”
“What about a nightcap, Hanwell? Finish the night off properly. You had a great success tonight—we should celebrate. But maybe your wife wouldn’t like it.”
“My wife’s in [REDACTED].”
“And mine’s in Timbuktu. How about it, then?”
We agreed to go to his flat. I had some whiskey left and shared it with him, and for at least a minute the plan to continue the night seemed by far the best plan any man could have devised. We walked silently and contentedly down Park Street, but when we reached the bottom the rain began to come down sideways, and three minutes later I was soaked to the skin. We took a series of rapid rights and lefts; I remember registering the point at which I could no longer be sure that it would be quicker and less painful to go back to my flat than to go to Hanwell’s.
“Have we much farther to go?” I asked him, blinking away water, trying to keep up with his swift pace.
“Just a bit,” he said, and in the darkness I heard the squeak of a hinge. I followed him through the iron gate he had opened. We were in a small park, really just a green square, with beautiful Georgian properties looming white and expensive overhead.
“This is Cabot Square, very nice,” said Hanwell. “It’s a shortcut for me through the square. Imagine living with your family in one of these huge buggers.”
I thought it very strange, that addition—“with your family.” I hadn’t the heart or the will to tell him that a house very like one of these “huge buggers” had recently been mine; that I had had the run of the place all for myself; that a life like that was possible.
“Barry Franks lives here,” said Hanwell chirpily—he was as indefatigable as a tour guide—“with his wife and their four children.”
“The way he’s going, he’ll be lucky to keep it,” I said, too angrily. I wanted people to have the kind of bad luck I now knew existed. I didn’t want anyone to think that what had happened to me could not happen to them. I wanted to spread my black gospel whenever I had the opportunity. But here was Hanwell, whistling at the house, in admiration of its owner’s good fortune.
“Do you hear that?” he said. The rain had stopped; we were about to leave the park. A child, I thought, was crying in one of the houses.
“That’s a fox,” said Hanwell. “They scream that strange scream. It’s very close by us.”
He stopped and looked around. He pulled his hat low over his eyes, as if wishing to camouflage himself. Exasperated, I took off my own hat and tipped the water out of its brim. That must have been the last year I wore a hat in [REDACTED]. Certainly, even by the following year there wasn’t a hat check left in any restaurant or public building in the country. People like Hanwell and me were the last dinosaurs as far as hats were concerned.
“Quiet a minute,” said Hanwell as I opened my mouth to complain. Some lights went on in one of the grand houses across the way. I hated that subtle sign of concern and what it was meant to signal to the man outside: I don’t know what you’re doing out there, but I am awake, and should I have to I will not hesitate to call the police. When I had a house, I had the same smug habit. I well imagined the man peeling back his half of the bedcovers, pompously reassuring his wife, treading carefully on the stairs, proudly entering that great space he had worked so hard to own—his high-ceilinged living room—and peering out at these two dark figures in the square who might try to take it all away from him. When you lived where I lived now, when you heard the violent city noises, you didn’t switch any lights on. I coughed loudly and lit another cigarillo.
“It’s not moving away. Listen to it!” said Hanwell, slowly approaching a big, well-maintained hedge by the exit. It was a piteous wail, and its human shape was irresistible even after one told oneself it was a fox, even after Hanwell pushed the greenery away with a long stick to reveal the trembling fox itself, collapsed on its knees upon the ground.
“Pretty thing,” I said, and I can remember now what a deliberate understatement that was. It was, in truth, extraordinary to be standing this close to something so wild, so usually elusive, so slender-legged, so orange-tailed, so yellow-eyed, so unexpected. We were face to snout with the animal.
“What’s wrong with it?” I asked gruffly. “Why the bloody hell doesn’t it move?”
Hanwell gently poked it with the stick; it wailed again, but it didn’t stand.
“It must be maimed somehow,” said Hanwell.
There wasn’t a mark on it. It was as spotless as if it had been stuffed, and it was perfectly serene apart from this terrible screaming. From the lit house came the sound of a sash window being forced up. Hanwell put his wet boot on the fox’s slim throat.

“What are you doing?” I said with alarm, and at the same moment Hanwell brought his boot down hard and broke its neck.
“Better to put it out of its misery,” said Hanwell blandly.
Quite unexpectedly—for I am almost never sick—I turned around and threw up.
“Are you all right?” said Hanwell, although he did not make any move to help me. I thought, Men like us don’t know how to comfort each other. We need women for that. I felt a little throb of despair pass through me; the absolute certainty that there would be no one waiting for me tonight, no matter what time I came home.
“Ridiculous of me,” I said, straightening up. “I think maybe I should go home.”
It was now that Hanwell left his fox and turned to me, his face full of distress.
“But we’re almost there—”
“All the same,” I said firmly, trying to clean myself up a little with a handkerchief, that other obsolete item, “I think my night is over.”
“But—I’d hoped—” He bit his lip as he had in the restaurant, like a small child fearing a punishment.
“What? What had you hoped?”
I was angry with him now. It seemed as if all the failures of my evening were somehow connected to him—not getting the girl, losing the drink I had spent good money putting inside me, being wet, being cold—and if I could only get away from him my life would immediately begin to improve.
“I’d hoped you’d help me.”
“If it’s money you wanted, you can forget it. I’m poor as a church mouse,” I said, and set off in the opposite direction. I’d barely taken a step when I slid on the wet paving stones. Hanwell broke the better part of my fall, but I still found that my will deserted me inches before the ground. I resisted Hanwell’s help and instead gave myself to a shallow puddle, tinted orange in the street lights. I sat there quietly for a minute. I had the keen sense that this was the lowest moment of my decline, that there would be nothing beneath this. Time has proved that instinct correct. Two wet strangers, outdoors, without women, at night, and with death curled up nearby. Whenever I am in need of spiritual nourishment, I remember that moment and feel gratitude to God for never allowing me to fall so low again. Only a certain kind of man could find himself in such a situation. I am not that man anymore. The memory of what I was makes me shudder now, but at the time the only appropriate reaction was laughter. I laughed so loud that two more lights turned on in the square.
“I suppose it is quite funny, Clive,” said Hanwell, very sadly. I stopped laughing.
I looked up at the stranger with his hand on my shoulder. He had that same hopeful look on his face with which he had delivered the marvellous crêpes.
“I don’t know you, Hanwell.”
I examined his face—his prosaic Suffolk profile, the pouchy, boyish jaw—and I remember thinking, I’m wrong, we’ve met before, a thousand times. Men in [REDACTED] have looked like Hanwell since the days of King Raedwald; there are hundreds of Hanwells in that fearful mound in Sutton Hoo. It was impossible not to be reassured by this.
“No. That’s true. But it’s so nearby. You could get dry and then set off again in the morning.”
“I haven’t any money, you know.”
“Don’t insult me again,” Hanwell said as firmly as any gentleman. I wondered whether this was a glimmer of the polish he’d picked up in [REDACTED]. And he hadn’t lied: in a minute more we were climbing the lurid iron steps to his second-floor flat, every step wet and slick and heavy with the possibility of a lethal accident. Inside, the flat was no bigger than mine, but it was a good deal cleaner. At once, one noticed evidence of a previous, family existence. Pretty blue china plates hung above the doorway. Doilies seemed to cover all the limited surfaces, and on top of them stray ornaments were lined up, all too clearly snatched from a larger gathering of better examples. My eyes were drawn immediately to a large black-and-white photo pinned above the oven (which was in a corner of the lounge): three appealing dark-haired teen-age girls sitting on a bench. Of course, one of them—the prettiest, if I may say so—was you. As soon as he saw me looking at it, Hanwell plucked the photo from the wall. I had the impression he would have done this anyway, whether I’d looked or no. Hanwell offered his family to his guest in the same way most men would offer a drink. I smiled and nodded, but I was distracted by the dryness of my throat. I needed to be drunk so as to explain to myself why, in the middle of the night, I had decided to come to the flat of a man who washed dishes for the thugs at Barry Franks’s place.
“That’s Emily,” said Hanwell, happily. “And that’s Carol and that’s Claire. Claire’s got all her mother’s beauty, you can see that.”
Having never seen your mother, I was at a loss as to how to continue this line of conversation.
“Very nice.” I took my cigarillos out of my breast pocket. They were sodden and smelled of compost. “Any chance of a fag, Hanwell? And maybe a drink?”
“You see, the thing is,” said Hanwell, quickly, “I was hoping you could do me a favor. It’s a bit embarrassing.”
“I’m beyond embarrassment, Hanwell, my friend. I’m sitting here begging you for a whiskey. Let’s have a whiskey and then we’ll deal with all other business in turn. I’m going to take my trousers off and put them on the radiator, if that’s all right.”
“It’ll need a shilling for the meter,” Hanwell said worriedly, in the tone of a Gypsy grandmother recalling a family curse, and disappeared out of the room for a minute with my trousers. To my enormous relief, he returned with a bottle of very good Irish malt. It was improbably good, and I asked him how he had come by it.
“Oh, you meet people who help you here and there,” said Hanwell, pouring me out a measure.
“Do you? I don’t seem to.”
“It’s only that you don’t realize they’re helping you. The heating’s on now—your trousers’ll be dry in a jiffy.”
Hanwell stood up and began pottering around the room like a woman, straightening the meagre curtains, tidying away little things into drawers. I drank three shots, one after the other, and sat back in my chair. A small embroidered pillow connected softly with the back of my head. It was such an unlikely luxury that I let out an involuntary whimper of pleasure.
“Laura made that.”
“Laura?”
“Laura, my wife.”
“Ah. The one in [REDACTED].”
Hanwell nodded.
“And why isn’t she with you again?” I asked. I realized that I knew nothing at all about Hanwell or why he was alone and washing dishes so late in his life. The greater part of it I never found out—until you told me. At the time, he offered only a painful series of incredibly delicate euphemisms, and it was a minute or so before I understood the sad truth.

“Did you find her?” I asked, unforgivably. When one is drunk, morbid curiosity is undisguisable. But Hanwell did not seem at all offended by it.
“She was in the stairwell on the way to the cellar,” he said, matter-of-factly. “She’d hung herself with the wotsit you tie a bathrobe with, the cord. It was a terrible thing.”
We were both quiet for a minute, considering death in the incompetent way that people do.
“But why did you tell me she was in [REDACTED]?”
“She is.”
“I’m sorry, Hanwell. It is a terrible thing. Have another drink.”
We didn’t know each other; there was nothing else to say.
“Excuse me,” said Hanwell. He left the room again. I remember drinking my drink and then another one, and letting my eye wander around this strange amalgamation of lounge and kitchen, with its junk-store furniture and filthy net curtains. Here and there one could spot the sad, cheap family heirlooms that were all a man like Hanwell could claim of his endless English ancestry. A jug and bowl, both painted with a sentimental swan, sat incongruously in the nook of the fireplace, reminding one of the Hanwells of the past who did their ablutions in their bedrooms for lack of a bathroom. Hung over the back of one chair was a stringy fur with the little feet still attached, the kind of thing women used to wear over their shoulders before the war. His wife’s? His mother’s? It made me think of Hanwell’s fox again. I wondered what would put Hanwell out of his misery or what would put me out of mine. The next thing I remember is smelling turpentine. I stood up and moved to the door. I had no idea what the door led onto. For all I knew, Hanwell’s flat bordered the edge of the world and by passing through this door I would simply fall into whatever hole contains forever. In fact, the door led directly to another room, no bigger than the room we had been in but stripped of decoration. All the furniture was piled in the middle of the room under a white dust sheet, like an obscene heap of bodies. The rest of the room was being painted a violent, hellish deep red by Hanwell, who was on a stepladder with a brush in his hand.
“I thought you’d fallen asleep,” said Hanwell, seriously.
“Why would you think that?”
“I looked in. It looked like you were sleeping.”
I had no watch on and no idea if this was true or not.
“Hanwell, what are you doing, for Christ’s sake? It’s two in the morning or something like it.”
“This is the girls’ room,” said Hanwell, climbing down from his ladder, looking sheepish. “I mean, I hope it will be for them. I hoped you might help me, actually.”
“Paint it? I suggest you hire a bloody painter, Hanwell—I came for a drink, not to be your skivvy.”
“No—” said Hanwell, urgently, “not that. I wanted an opinion. Is it the right kind of yellow? I’m color-blind—I didn’t like to ask the assistant—it’s called Deepest Sun. I want them to wake up and feel that the place is always full of sunshine, you see.”
“Yellow?”
“Don’t tell me it’s not right,” he said, looking at me rather desperately. “This is all the paint I can afford at the moment. But there’s that small pot left there—I’m going to do the skirting with that now. And the window frames. I want it to be just like sunset wall to wall, do you see? I think they blame me,” he said suddenly, and sat down on the penultimate step of his little ladder. He was a ridiculous sight: weary and pink and softly weeping in this terrifying red box.
“It’s nobody’s fault, Hanwell.”
He looked up at me curiously, as if we had just met.
“No,” he said finally. “That’s true.” He wiped his eyes. “It’s a small room, though, for three girls that age.”

“How old are they?”
“Seventeen, sixteen, and fourteen. They’re with their uncle and aunt at the moment, in Bromley. I write, but they don’t send back.”
“Have you got another paintbrush, Hanwell?”
I went to work on the windows while Hanwell got on his knees for the skirting board. He was meticulous about it. He had a tiny brush for the corners and he went over the whole thing three times. By the time I’d done my second coat on the window frames, the real yellow sun was coming up. The red paint was so dark that it repelled the light, and though we could see the day beginning outside, inside the room it felt as though my night and Hanwell’s would never end. I had passed through tiredness to the other side; I felt as if I needed no sleep at all. In my underwear I could have painted that window frame a thousand times if it meant not going back out into the world. I was happy, I think. At about 6 a.m., it was clear even to poor Hanwell’s color-blind eyes that we could put no more red on the red wall. I stepped down from my ladder and brought in two more shots of whiskey. We sat on the floor and admired our handiwork. We had made a room for you and your sisters. It was a good feeling. It had been so long since I made anything at all.
“What will you do with them when they’re here?” I asked Hanwell.
He spoke for a long time; he had elaborate plans. He imagined that you would be happy to hang around Franks in the daytime and watch him wash dishes, or maybe your sister would sing with the band, and when he couldn’t keep an eye on you, you could spend time with Barry Franks’s two odious sluttish daughters, whom I knew to be the girlfriends of two of the worst thugs in town. This was another piece of information I kept to myself.
“Are you sure they’ll come, Hanwell?” I asked him when he’d finished outlining his strange ideas. He smiled broadly. I thought it extremely unlikely that any daughter of Hanwell’s would ever spend a night in this room as we just had, but again I held my counsel. More and more, I suspect that men of our generation were not to be lived with. We made people unhappy because we ourselves were made unhappy in irrevocable ways. My own daughter takes great pleasure in knowing the measure of me, of judging and convicting me, and maybe she is right, and maybe you are, too. These days, everyone passes the blame backward—but we couldn’t do that. We kept blame close, we held it tight. I’m sorry your father made you so unhappy. Maybe the other replies you receive will help you put the blame in the right place and “come to terms,” as people say now. But when I saw your request in the paper my first thought was of a man likable enough to remember—this is no small feat. Almost everyone I met back then I’d rather forget. Even writing this I feel happy at the thought of Hanwell’s prawn-and-mushroom crêpes and the care with which he touched up the skirting board. I think you are too hard on him. And I think you were wrong to think that he knew all the time you and your sisters wouldn’t come, or that he didn’t want you to. Hanwell had a beautiful way of hoping. Not many men can hope red yellow. 

