SPIDER BOY
By Joyce Carol Oates

"There are places in the world where people vanish.”
His father had said this. His father had spoken flatly, without an air of mystery or threat. It was not a statement to be challenged and it was not a statement to be explained. Later, when he had not seen his father for a long time—or what seemed to him a long time, months, or maybe just weeks—he would try to summon the words again, exactly as his father had uttered them, but by this time he’d become uncertain, anxious. Had he said, Where people vanish, or where people can vanish?
It was such a crucial distinction!
"Remember your new name. Think before you answer. Not just ‘What’s your name?’ but any question. It helps to lick your lips. That will give you time not to make a mistake you can’t unmake.” His mother smiled. She had had her hair cut and restyled and she had a new way of clasping, her shaky left hand in her more forceful right hand, at waist level, as a practiced tennis player might clasp a racquet.
Yet it was not his name but his surname that was at issue. For his surname had been so disgraced that he had come to feel a certain fascination with its forbidden sound—the elided consonants and vowels, the lift of its final syllable in an expression of (possibly mocking) surprise, like an arched eyebrow. In private, Philip spoke his old name aloud, mimicking the newscasters who gave to it an air of intrigue and reproach. Sometimes at night, in bed in his new room in his grandparents’ house, he pressed his face deeply into the pillow and spoke the forbidden name, each syllable equally and defiantly stressed—Szaar-ra. He spoke the name until his breath ran out and his lungs ached and through his body raced a half-pleasurable panic that he had to smother.
A pillow. Where his mouth was, wet with saliva. A pillow is a comforting thing when your head rests on it, but if you are lying on your back and a pillow is pressed against your face you cannot summon the strength to push it away and save yourself.
"Yes. We’ve moved out of state.” Before even the impeachment hearings his mother had filed for divorce. And before she’d filed for divorce she’d moved them—Emily, Philip, herself—into her parents’ big stone house overlooking the Hudson River in [REDACTED], [REDACTED].
Now it was a drive of several hours to their old house in [REDACTED], overlooking the Delaware River. On the map, that distance was not really very far, but there was an air of finality in his mother’s frequently repeated phrase: “Out of state.”
Out of state caught in Philip’s mind, uttered in his mother’s breathless, adamant tone. As you might say Out of space, out of time.
Out of danger, out of harm.
Out of toxic contagion.
In this new state it was essential to have a new name, to replace and nullify the old, disgraced name—quickly!—before Emily and Philip were enrolled in their new schools.
[REDACTED] Academy for Emily, who was fifteen and in her second year of high school, Edgerstoune School for Philip, who would be thirteen in August and entering eighth grade. In New [REDACTED] both children had gone to the Pennington School, in a northern [REDACTED] suburb. Sometimes their mother drove them to school, sometimes one of their father’s assistants. There was also a private bus provided by the school, the same bright-pumpkin hue as public-school buses but only a third the size. Riding on this bus, brother and sister never sat together, and had acknowledged each other only politely, with diffident smiles.
For a few weeks during the impeachment hearings they’d continued to attend the Pennington School, but when criminal charges were brought against their father their mother had removed them from school.
“It has to be done. They can’t be made to suffer for him. They are only children.”
In [REDACTED], it became official: Where Szaara had been, now there was Hudgkins.
Where Philip Szaara had been, now there was Philip Hudgkins.
This wasn’t a “new” new name, of course. It was their [REDACTED] grandparents’ name, with which their mother insisted they had only happy associations. Their mother took up her maiden name with relief. During the sixteen years of her marriage to the New [REDACTED] politician Roy Szaara, she had continued to be known to certain of her women friends, with whom she’d gone to Bryn Mawr, as Miriam Hudgkins. And so: “It isn’t a great change. It’s more like coming back home.”
S_pider Boy._ You might have thought that the name was a playful reference to the comic-strip superhero Spider-Man, but in fact Philip had no interest in Spider-Man, just as he had no interest in any of the comics, action films, and video games that so captivated other boys.
“Spider Boy.”
Saying it aloud was a way of evoking the haunting and powerful presence that existed now only in memory. If it weren’t for a single memento (smelly, ugly, of a clumsy size, and in no way to be mistaken for something of Philip’s own), which he kept in a secret place in his room, Philip might have begun to wonder whether Spider Boy had ever existed.
And yet he vividly remembered the effort of smiling. And a strange sensation in his jaws. His voice like a girl’s voice, weak and disappointing. He’d had to repeat his words so that Spider Boy could hear them amid the traffic noises. He remembered jamming both hands into the pockets of his Pennington School jacket. He remembered that Spider Boy, panhandling in front of the [REDACTED] train station, had been standing in an odd posture—sexy-swaggering, you might say—one hand brashly extended palm up and the other, as if for ballast, clenched and shoved in a pocket of his filthy jeans.
Spider Boy was older than Philip by several years. He was taller by several inches. He had a shaved head and deep-set glassy-dark eyes. His jaws were covered in a darkish ghost beard. There was something twitchy, even spidery, about the way his arms jutted from his bony shoulders, and about his restless lanky legs. He wore a grungy black T-shirt and jeans torn at the knees. On his feet: splayed sneakers crudely mended with tape. The smallest toe of his left foot protruded through the rotted sneaker fabric like a wayward tongue.
Philip had never called him Spider Boy, of course. At the time, he had not been capable of much more than Excuse me? and he’d been excited and anxious and taken by surprise when he’d seen with what eagerness the boy turned to him, a sudden flaring in the sunken eyes of something like hope.
Spider Boy. Philip wanted to feel revulsion for him. For then he would not feel a more tender emotion.
"But how would they know who you are?”
His mother laughed at him, not cruelly but in the way of a mother who loves her child no matter how silly, how mistaken, how annoying he is.
“Why, if you are exactly who you say you are, Philip Hudgkins, would anyone at your new school think that you are not?”
Philip hesitated. He frowned.
This was squiggling up your face in a way that exasperated his mother. Quickly he murmured yes, he guessed she was right, he was sorry.
Her eyes brimmed with the pain of their mutual hurt: “Oh, I know you don’t mean it, honey. It’s your nerves.”
He supposed, yes. Calling it nerves was a way of reminding Philip that he was sensitive, like his mother. Not crude and cruel, manipulative and maneuvering, like his father.
Moreover, nerves were not his fault but the result of other people’s behavior. The fault of the circumstances of our lives.
Yet it was honey that most reverberated in his ears. This, too, was a signal— that he was loved, as a child is loved, that he was not an adolescent boy but a child-boy, his mother’s baby. He felt a pang of guilt at the sound of the word; he didn’t deserve honey, __just as he didn’t deserve his mother’s love. Soon he would outgrow it, as even his mother would have to acknowledge.
Philip’s father hadn’t called him honey in a long time. Using such baby names for a boy offended his father’s sense of manly propriety. Instead, his father called him by his full, formal name, Philip. Mostly, though, when they were alone together or in the presence of a hitchhiker (“hitchhiker” was the term by which the boys were known) his father called him only you.
In the presence of hitchhikers his father had a way of speaking exuberantly yet guardedly. A way of laughing that made you want to laugh with him. He was likely to tousle Philip’s hair and tease him the way you’d tease a younger child. He was more affectionate, squeezing Philip’s arm at the elbow as he let him out of the car at the corner of State Street and Mercer, to return to the twelfth-floor apartment alone. “You’ve got a key, let yourself in. If I’m not back by twelve, don’t wait up. I’ll see you in the morning.”
Sometimes, Hey, you, be good, and an impulsive kiss on the side of Philip’s head, against his left temple, where a thin blue vein beat tremulously.
The headmaster, Dr. Simmons, made a point of saying hello to the new transfer student from [REDACTED] whom most of his classmates ignored. Hello and How are your mother and her family, tactfully making no mention of any father living or dead. How are you, with a warm and encouraging smile, like someone greeting a convalescent. And Philip did his best to smile back and reply in emulation of his mother’s telephone voice, never failing to include sir.
With the passage of months it became painfully clear to Philip that not only wasn’t his identity suspected, he was also mostly invisible in the eyes of his classmates. If he was jostled by bigger boys it was only because he was there, a diminutive physical presence, to be jostled. He, Philip Hudgkins, a transfer student with a way of retreating even as he moved forward, held little appeal for those who might have wished, in other circumstances, to be cruel.
His teachers knew, Philip supposed. Though Dr. Simmons had promised not to tell anyone (or so Philip’s mother insisted), still it seemed likely to Philip that they knew. In [REDACTED], in certain circles, there had to be some residual knowledge of the long linkage between Hudgkins and Szaara. Philip’s mother wished not to recall the fact that she’d been married in [REDACTED] and for sixteen years had brought her gregarious and attractive Republican rising-star husband home to visit her parents and to be introduced to their friends. How could this connection be nullified by her frantic efforts now? Worse yet, in midwinter, after months of quiet, Szaara headlines began to reëmerge, no longer confined to the New [REDACTED] media but appearing in the [REDACTED] section of the Times as well. For the news had catapulted beyond charges of misconduct in political office, misuse of public funds, bribe-taking, and dealmaking into far more serious criminal charges of statutory rape, sexual assault upon a minor, abduction of a minor, and conspiracy to commit these crimes. Investigators for the state attorney general’s office, wiretapping Roy Szaara’s phones to gather evidence for his political misconduct, had been astonished to discover evidence for an entirely different category of criminal activity.
Several times that last summer, Philip and his father had gone camping at the Delaware Water Gap park, in northwestern New [REDACTED]. That is, the intention had been to go camping there. In the back seat of his father’s car were newly purchased sleeping bags, hiking boots, plastic bottles of Evian water, and packages of granola. A lightweight blanket from L. L. Bean, a pillow.
Philip’s mother rarely asked about his weekends with his father.
“Your mother doesn’t really give a damn about you any more than she does about me,” his father said. “It’s only pride with her, see. Her wounded class pride, her wish to scrape me off her shoes.” His father chuckled and leaned over to kiss the side of Philip’s head.
Roy Szaara had a large solid face, burnished like a coin. It was the face of a man much photographed. Laugh lines radiated from the corners of his eyes, which were clear, frank, and engaging. He had a razor-sharp part in his graying dark hair. For certain of his public appearances he wore makeup—inky-black mascara lightly brushed against his eyelashes.
For their trips to Chester, [REDACTED], to South Philly and [REDACTED], New [REDACTED], he wore tinted glasses in stylish metal frames. He whistled, he was in good spirits. He rarely spoke of his week at the state capitol except to tell Philip that things were going very well. He did not inquire after Philip’s mother or sister. He had always shaved just before picking Philip up at the Pennington School, on Friday afternoons at 3:20 p.m.He smelled of aftershave and something sweet, like vanilla.
“Go over there. Poor kid, ask him if he wants a ride. If he’s hungry.”
It was the bus station at Chester. Or the Thirtieth Street railway station, in [REDACTED]. Or the [REDACTED] train station. That last time, Philip’s father had urged him from the car with a gentle nudge against his shoulder. Like a sleepwalker, but with unnaturally widened eyes, Philip had made his way past a noisy family loading their minivan to the boy panhandling listlessly at the curb.
He was a lone white boy whom no one gave more than a cursory glance. He stood with one hand extended palm up, stubborn and unmoving. There was something both childlike and feral about him that made Philip shy, so he was surprised when the boy looked at him eagerly, as if hoping he might know him.
“Excuse me? My dad and me, we’re going to McDonald’s for some hamburgers. You could come with us. Dad says.”

These words had been programmed for Philip. Except for Dad says, which was his own invention.
Later, after they’d eaten, his father drove to [REDACTED] to let Philip off at the apartment. It was late now, nearing 10 p.m., and Philip’s head ached with exhaustion. He was in the back seat of the car and the boy, the hitchhiker, who’d said that his name was Reuben but had been coy about providing a last name, was in the passenger’s seat beside Philip’s father. Reuben was smoking a cigarette Philip’s father had given him and he was talking loudly, boastfully. His speech was interlaced with shit, suck, fuck. At McDonald’s, Reuben had wolfed down three Quarter Pounders, two orders of French fries, and a giant Coke. He had shocked Philip by belching loudly and without apology, as if making a witticism. The conversation had been mostly between Reuben and Philip’s father, but Philip had not been hurt, or anyway not much hurt, for something similar had happened twice before in his father’s company at other McDonald’s with other starving hitchhikers, and each time Philip had consoled himself by thinking, Dad wants him to feel special. He is someone to be pitied.
It came out that Reuben was from Toms River, East [REDACTED]. He’d “hung out” in Atlantic City for a while, then caught a ride to Philly, where he had contacts. He was headed for [REDACTED], he said, “eventually.” When, at the corner of State Street and Mercer, Philip moved to climb out of the car, Reuben had looked surprised, asking wasn’t he coming with them? But Philip’s father had explained that Philip was too young for the place he wanted to take Reuben, the Café à Go-Go Bar & Lounge. Philip was much too young. Philip’s father had laughed, and Reuben had laughed with him, exhaling a mouthful of smoke.
“You’ve got the key. Don’t wait up. Good night!”
Philip hid inside the vestibule and watched his father drive away with Reuben. Now he felt a stab of jealousy, but he knew that, the next day, Reuben would be gone and he would have his father to himself. It was the new Acura his father was driving, a sedan with a beautiful pale-bronze finish. Roy Szaara always drove new cars, which he leased. Philip had seen the admiration in the boy’s eyes as they’d approached the Acura. Now he watched as it moved back into State Street traffic. Soon it disappeared in a stream of glittering cars headed for the bridge over the Delaware River.
Next day, the pillow was gone from the back seat of the car, though the rest of the camping gear remained. Philip wondered if it was in the trunk of the car. Or if his father had thrown it away.
Before Spider Boy, there had been Fat Boy, and Baldie. There had been Luis, and Smoke.
When Philip asked his father where the hitchhikers had gone, his father laughed and tousled his hair and said, “There are places in the world where people vanish.”
Later, Philip’s father explained that the hitchhikers were a secret between him and Philip that no one must ever know. Did Philip promise to keep this secret?
Yes. Philip promised.
Because the hitchhikers were boys who’d broken the law. They were boys “wanted” by the law for juvenile crimes and very likely they would have been sent to juvenile-detention facilities—“juvey hall,” as it was called—if Philip’s father had not acted to prevent this. He’d convinced them to return to their homes. He’d given them the money to return by bus. He’d listened as they called their parents and he’d insisted on getting on the phone to explain who he was and what the situation was. “These are lost boys needing to be found,” he said.
Sometimes, in the apartment, Philip discovered things that the hitchhikers had left behind: soiled socks and underwear, crumpled cigarette packages, a single sneaker mended with duct tape. A plastic belt patterned to resemble crocodile skin. A sweat-stained baseball cap. Once, his father came up behind him to snatch a filthy undershirt Philip had been holding. Harshly, he laughed. “For shame. Your mother should keep you cleaner.”
For a long time those words had reverberated in his ears with a ring of playful reproach. He was a fastidious boy who washed his hands often and had a compulsion to brush his teeth immediately after eating, for he could not bear the sensation of food particles between his teeth. Over time, he would come to believe that the filthy undershirt had in fact been his and he was flooded with a deep shame, for his father had seen it, and his father, too, would remember.
Spider Boy was a secret and would remain a secret. He had promised.
Oh, but he’d done a bad thing, a thing that his father would not have liked. For his father trusted him, and Philip had violated that trust. He’d taken with him, wrapped in his own underwear in the rucksack he brought his things in, the single sneaker mended with duct tape, a badly torn, stained and foul-smelling gunmetal-gray sneaker probably twice the size of his own shoes. If he’d been asked why he would bring such a filthy thing home with him, he could not have said, except that it would have been lost otherwise.
As if in punishment for what he’d done, suddenly there were no more weekends in [REDACTED]. Not for some time would Philip learn why.
And then, ten months after the move to [REDACTED], the call came.
The former Mrs. Miriam Szaara was ordered to bring her thirteen-year-old son, Philip, to [REDACTED] Police Headquarters to be questioned by detectives involved in the “continuing investigation” into former New [REDACTED] Republican State Senator Roy Szaara.
Philip’s father had begun serving his twelve-to-fifteen-year sentence at the New [REDACTED] Men’s Facility at Rahway. He’d pleaded guilty to assorted charges in order to avoid a protracted and lurid trial, and further legal costs, for he’d declared bankruptcy. The ugly headlines had disappeared from the Times, replaced by other lurid headlines pertaining to strangers. Philip’s mother remained unshaken in her belief that by changing their surname she had severed all links with her former husband, and no one dared suggest otherwise.
Now she was furious! And even more incensed when the detective who’d called her offered to “provide transportation” for her and her son to Police Headquarters.
“As if I can’t drive by myself. As if I don’t know the way. As if I might get lost. As if I might disappear.”
Philip had to be excused from school and brought with him several textbooks in which he might hide from his mother.
“But why, why? Why would they want to involve you?”
He had not seen his father since the mandated weekends had come to an abrupt end. Since before his father’s resignation had played and replayed on New [REDACTED] network TV. How many weeks after the night of Spider Boy that had been he’d have had to calculate. The stolen sneaker was safely hidden in his room behind a row of old videos: “Fly Away Home,” “Winged Migration,” “When Dinosaurs Reigned.” The Guatemalan woman who cleaned house for Philip’s grandparents knew not to touch Philip’s videos or anything else on his shelves or desk.

He hadn’t been questioned about his father before. Once, with a forced smile, his mother had inquired about his weekends in [REDACTED], had things been “all right,” and Philip had said yes and that was all.

Still, since his father’s departure from his life Philip thought of him more frequently. He had not dared suggest, even to his grandparents, that he be allowed to visit his father in prison, for such a request would have dismayed and infuriated them, and there was no chance, not the faintest glimmer of a chance, that he might say such a thing to his mother.
Now, seeing signs for the Rahway exit on the turnpike, Philip’s mother said suddenly, with a breathless laugh, “There! We could stop. You’d like that, wouldn’t you?”
Philip shook his head. No.
For he knew that his father would not want to be seen in such a place. His father had always dressed so stylishly—expensive clothes, haircuts. His fingernails were manicured and the cuffs of his trademark white silk dress shirts always spotless. Philip found this comforting, or had. He had admired his father’s heavy, handsome watch, with its platinum-gold stretch band—an expensive watch with a famous brand name, received as a gift. His father had joked that the damned watch was so heavy he couldn’t wear it in bed. Damned watch didn’t keep time as well as the cheap Timex watches he’d bought in drugstores as a kid.
Now everywhere, even in the company of his mother, and in his classes at the Edgerstoune School, Philip thought of his father and heard his father’s teasing and admonishing voice. Your mother should keep you cleaner. Secret between us, promise? Repeatedly he heard, There are places in the world where people vanish, or was it There are places in the world where people can vanish? He saw again the beautiful pale-bronze Acura cruising the streets of Chester, South Philly, [REDACTED]. He saw the view of glittering lights from his father’s twelfth-floor apartment. He was sure that at the [REDACTED] train station the ghost figure of Spider Boy might be spotted, that the brightly lit booth at McDonald’s would retain the ghost figures of all three of them, if only he could go back and look.
On the drive to [REDACTED] he was beset by such memories. They had exited the turnpike and were driving south on Route 1 toward [REDACTED] and the Delaware River, and as always there was the small thrill of “Exit Only*”* and “Last Exit Before Bridge to [REDACTED]” Here was a mostly abandoned industrial landscape of smokestacks and refineries, factories and warehouses marooned within acres of cracked pavement, overgrown vacant lots, oily ponds, billboards of tattered yet grinning faces, tenement buildings with boarded-up windows. Philip smiled, as if wishing to believe that he was coming home, though the house on the Delaware River had been sold and his father’s apartment had been vacant for months.
"Ever seen him before, Philip? Take your time.”
Spread across the table in the windowless interview room were a half- dozen snapshots of a thin, dark-haired boy not much older than Philip, frowning at the camera. His head was not shaved but covered in lustrous dark curls and his eyes were clear and not shadowed like a skull’s eyes, yet you could tell that this was Spider Boy, younger than when Philip had seen him.
Quickly Philip shook his head. No. He’d never seen this boy before.
“This is a missing boy, Philip. He’s fourteen in these pictures. He’s older now, and he’s been missing since last May. Any information you can provide.”
Philip sat silent, staring. In two of the photographs the boy was wearing a white T-shirt and smoking a cigarette. In one he was wearing what appeared to be a rumpled pajama top, partly opened to show a pale sunken chest and a single berry-colored nipple.
No. Philip had no information to provide. His mother stood close behind him with her hand on his shoulder.
“Take your time, Philip. There’s no hurry.”
There were two detectives. Philip knew that they were watching him closely, and that they were aware of his mother’s quickened breathing. They had surprised Philip by shaking hands with him as if he were an adult. They took care to call his mother “Ms. Hudgkins.” In the confusion of the moment Philip had not heard their names. He had not heard most of what the detectives had said. He understood that his mother was annoying them by insisting over and over that her son was only a child and knew nothing about his father’s private life. He had not seen his father in months. He had rarely seen his father during the last several years, for his father had lived apart from the family since Philip was ten. Now he was only thirteen and he was trying to adjust to a new home and a new school. . . . The detectives listened politely. They did not interrupt. Philip felt a pang of embarrassment that his mother had become a woman to be pitied and humored. She was wearing dark clothing and her hair was pulled back into a chignon, yet her mouth flashed red with lipstick and her eyes were unnaturally bright.
It had been suggested to Philip’s mother that she wait outside while the detectives spoke with Philip, but of course she had refused. She had not brought her son all the way to [REDACTED], she said, to abandon him to strangers.
“Any of these? Look familiar?”
There were folders of such photographs. All were of teen-age boys. Philip was smiling, and shaking his head no. He was having difficulty seeing, but he did not want to wipe his eyes on his sleeve. The gesture would be a sign of weakness, and he knew that adult men are contemptuous of weakness in boys.
“Take your time, Philip. We understand.”
The hand on Philip’s shoulder was urgent; he could feel nails through his shirt.
Suddenly, Philip had to use a rest room. The need came upon him as quick as a pain.
His mother insisted upon accompanying him.“I don’t want him alone for a moment. Not in this place.”
Philip resented his mother’s speaking of him in the third person, as if he were a very young child. When he moved toward the door as if to elude her, she seized his arm and walked with him, holding him captive. The detectives behaved as if this were nothing unusual. But Philip saw their eyes on his mother in the way he’d sometimes seen, years ago, his father’s eyes on her, detached and calculating.
At the men’s room (they were on the second floor of the [REDACTED] Police Headquarters, in an old, partly renovated building on North Clinton Avenue), Philip’s mother balked at allowing him to go inside alone. Nor did she want one of the detectives to accompany him. Oh, Philip hated this woman right then! He dreaded having her enter the men’s room with him. One of the detectives suggested a compromise: he would look into the rest room to make sure that no one was inside, then Philip’s mother could verify that this was so, and then Philip could use the rest room undisturbed. No one would be allowed to enter so long as Philip was inside and Philip’s mother could wait immediately outside the door to accompany him back to the interview room. In that way, Ms. Hudgkins could be assured that no one would approach her son without her permission.

Reluctantly, as if suspecting a trick, Philip’s mother agreed, and Philip was able to use the rest room undisturbed. How like kindergarten this was, his mother anxiously overseeing his first days! He could not bear to see his reflection in the mirror. He could not bear to look at his weak, frightened soul glittering like tears in his eyes. It was difficult for him to pee. He wondered if a surveillance camera was trained on him. When he emerged from the rest room, he was shaking with indignation and trying not to cry. His mother said quickly that this was too upsetting for him, she was taking him back to [REDACTED] immediately, and in a rage Philip threw off her hand and told the detectives, “I saw him. The first one. His name was Reuben.”
Was he’d said without thinking. He had not meant was. He had no reason to think was. But all that he had been determined not to tell the detectives that day, suddenly he would tell in a rush of words that his mother could not prevent, and which would be recorded on tape and could not be unsaid. There was a comfort in this.
"Still daylight! You’d think it would be night.” His mother was peering at her surroundings as if she had no idea where she was. They’d been in Police Headquarters for what seemed like a full day, and yet when they emerged the sun was still well above the horizon and the sky was hazy with light. Philip’s mother was shaken and dazed and moved like an elderly woman.
At the car, she seemed to rouse herself. She turned the key in the ignition briskly and gunned the motor.
In [REDACTED] traffic, Philip’s mother impulsively turned west, in the direction of the river. She couldn’t bear Route 1, not for the second time that day. She would take the River Road north to I-95, and avoid most of [REDACTED] altogether. It was out of their way, she said, but the detour was worth it.
“We’ll pass the old house. But we won’t drop in. Strangers live there now. Good luck to them!”
At Police Headquarters, Philip’s mother had become too upset to listen to his interview with the detectives and had had to be escorted from the room. Afterward, when he’d emerged from the interview room, she had hurried to embrace him wordlessly. He’d been crying, and she hugged him so tightly that they trembled together as the detectives looked on, embarrassed.
Now, driving along the River Road, she said, as if thinking aloud, “You had to. I know.”
Running parallel to the River Road was a narrow canal of muddy water and beyond the canal was the wide, windy Delaware River. On the other side of the highway were small suburban houses that, within a few miles, gave way to larger and more imposing houses in the hills. There, at the top of one landscaped hill, was the sprawling glass-and-stucco “contemporary” in which, long ago it now seemed, the Szaara family had lived.
Philip’s mother did no more than glance at the house. “I was never happy there. That style of architecture has no soul.”
Philip squinted at the house, barely visible behind a scrim of juniper pine. A pulse beat in his eyes. He hated it that strangers lived there now, that another child had appropriated his room. A boy his age or younger for whom the future held no dread.
Philip expected his mother to turn onto the entrance ramp of I-95 near Titusville, but she drove past it without slowing. He dared not say anything to her. She was driving over the speed limit, clenching the steering wheel tight. They were veering ever farther from the turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, which would return them to [REDACTED]. They were miles beyond suburban [REDACTED], in a sparsely populated area of western New [REDACTED] bounded on the right by densely wooded hills. Philip’s mother was breathing quickly now. “I am so angry with you, Philip,” she said suddenly. “I am so angry my heart hurts from beating hard. I think I need to stop this car. I think you should get out of this car and leave me alone for a while.”
Philip was stunned. He was unable to speak, to defend himself. At Police Headquarters he’d tried to say he was sorry, but his mother had hugged him warmly. She had seemed to forgive him.
Yet now she was saying vehemently, “This shame you’ve brought us. This new shame. Hitchhikers! It will be in the newspapers, it will be on television. Where can we hide? I can’t move us again. You could have let it go, Philip. That boy, that missing boy, you could have let him go.”
She was braking the car, skidding and sliding from the roadway into a deserted rest stop. They were at the edge of Washington Crossing State Park. Wordless, Philip yanked the car door open and charged blindly away. He was trembling with hurt, indignation. He was aware of picnic tables, benches. Shuttered rest rooms in a fake log cabin. An overturned trash can that reeked of garbage.
He wasn’t going to cry, for he was furious. His mother had no right to punish him at such a time. He had told only the truth of what he knew and he did not wish the truth untold, even if it brought shame to them all. He knew that if he pleaded with his mother, if he returned to her tearful and craven, she would relent and love him again, but he’d had enough of her love, he’d had enough of his father’s love, and he hoped never to see either of them again.
At the edge of the rest stop was a sodden woodchip trail leading into a hilly wooded area. A sign read “Mountain Meadow—3 Miles.” Philip began to hike the trail, breaking into a run from time to time. He had no idea where he was, what he was doing. He wanted only to run. In [REDACTED], in the interview room, he’d been exhausted and had wanted to lay his head down on his arms and shut his eyes, but in this new place his strength had returned. There was a smell here of rich damp earth and awakening vegetation. The day had been unseasonably warm for early April, and already small insects, gnats, and flies brushed against his face. He began to perspire. His mother had made him wear a lined jacket, which he removed and dropped on the trail. He was hiking uphill. All that summer, that previous summer, his father had promised to take him camping at the Delaware Water Gap, but always something had prevented it, always something had “come up.” Now he would never see his father again, for he’d broken his promise to him—all that was finished.
He passed the one-mile marker, and he passed the two-mile marker. His feet were wet; the trail had become overgrown. His breath was erratic, exhilarated. By this time more than forty minutes had passed. By now his mother would be wandering forlorn and fretful among the picnic tables and the reeking garbage, calling, Philip? Phil-ip? Where are you?, uncertain if she should be angry or alarmed. He could see her tugging at the (padlocked) door of the men’s rest room. Her glaring red mouth as she called his name, called and called his name, and there came, in rebuke, only silence.

The sun had descended in the sky and hung, pale and sickle-like, just above the tree line. Philip was on high ground, hiking along a ridge above a swift-flowing stream. The woodchip trail had long since vanished. This new trail was sometimes so faint as to be indistinct from the underbrush surrounding it. Philip began to hear voices. For a terrible moment he thought that he might have hiked in an ellipse, that he was returning to his mother, but that was impossible. He was making his way, trying not to lose his balance along the edge of a hill, and below the hill was the creek, and on the far side of the creek were several adults and children. A man was casting a fishing line into the dark glittering water. A boy crouched beside him. Philip halted, not wanting to be seen. He was about thirty feet above the creek, panting. He squatted amid boulders. He leaned his elbows on his knees, trying to catch his breath. Close around him were rocks; the slightest pressure might send one rolling down the hill. He was very still. He saw the boy on the creek bank glance up at him and wave. He saw the man with the fishing pole look toward him. He had not meant to be seen, but he had been seen. Impulsively he raised his arm to wave back.
Maybe they would call to him? Maybe they would invite him to join them? Maybe that was how this long day would end, somewhere in western New [REDACTED] in Washington Crossing State Park? 

