KANSAS
By Marilynne Robinson

Last night the two of us had a conversation. I doubt you will remember it. I told you that I might be gone sometime, and you said where, and I said to be with the Good Lord, and you said why, and I said, because I’m old, and you said, I don’t think you’re old. And you put your hand in my hand and you said, you aren’t very old, as if that settled it. I told you you might have a very different life from mine, and from the life you’ve had with me, and that would be a wonderful thing, there are many ways to live a good life. And you said, Momma already told me that. And then you said, Don’t laugh! because you thought I was laughing at you. You reached up and put your fingers on my lips and gave me that look I never in my life saw on any other face beside your mother’s. It’s a kind of furious pride, very passionate and stern. I’m always a little surprised to find my eyebrows unsinged after I’ve suffered one of those looks. I will miss them.
It seems ridiculous to suppose the dead miss anything. If you’re a grown man when you read this—it is my intention for this letter that you will read it then—I’ll have been gone a long time. I’ll know most of what there is to know about being dead, but I’ll probably keep it to myself. That seems to be the way of things.
It was your mother’s thought that I should write some things down for you. She told you I would be writing your begats, and you seemed very pleased with the idea. Well then, what should I record for you? I, John Ames, was born in the Year of Our Lord 1880 in the State of [REDACTED], the son of John Ames and Martha Turner Ames, grandson of John Ames and Margaret Todd Ames. I don’t have much to say about myself. At this writing, May 15, 1956, I have lived seventy-six years, seventy-four of them right here in Gilead, [REDACTED], excepting study at the college and at seminary. My mother’s father was a preacher, and my father’s father was, too, and his father before him, and before that nobody knows, but I wouldn’t hesitate to guess. So this life was second nature to me. They were all fine people, but if there was one thing I should have learned from them and did not learn it was to control my temper. Even now, when a flutter of my pulse makes me think of final things, I find myself getting angry because a drawer sticks or because I’ve misplaced my glasses. I tell you so that you can watch for this in yourself.
I don’t know how many times people have asked me what death is like, sometimes when they were only an hour or two from finding out for themselves. Even when I was a very young man, people as old as I am now would ask me, hold on to my hands and look into my eyes with their old milky eyes, as if they knew I knew and they were going to make me tell them. I used to say it was like going home. We have no home in this world, I used to say, and then I’d walk back up the road to this old place and make myself a pot of coffee and a fried-egg sandwich and listen to the radio, when I got one, in the dark, as often as not. Do you remember this house? I think you must, a little. I grew up in parsonages. I’ve lived in this one most of my life, and I’ve visited in a good many others, because my father’s friends and most of our relatives also lived in parsonages. And when I thought about it in those days, which wasn’t too often, I thought this was the worst of them all, the draftiest and the dreariest. It’s a perfectly good old house, but I was all alone in it then, and that made it seem strange to me. I didn’t feel very much at home in the world, that was a fact. Now I do.
And now they say my heart is failing. The doctor used the term angina pectoris, which has a theological sound, like misericordia. Well, you expect these things at my age. My father died an old man, but his sisters didn’t live very long, really. So I can only be grateful. I do regret that I have almost nothing to leave you and your mother. A lot of old books no one else would want. I never made any money to speak of, and I never paid any attention to the money I had. It was the farthest thing from my mind that I’d be leaving a wife and child, believe me. I’d have been a better father if I’d known. I’d have set something by for you.
That is the main thing I want to tell you, that I regret very deeply the hard times I know you and your mother must have gone through, with no real help from me at all, except my prayers, and I pray all the time. I did while I lived, and I do now, too, if that is how things are in the next life.
We’re having a fine spring, and this is another fine day. You were almost late for school. We stood you on a chair and you ate toast and jam while your mother polished your shoes and I combed your hair. You had a page of sums to do that you should have done last night, and you took forever over them this morning, trying to get all the numbers facing the right way. You’re like your mother, so serious about everything. The old men call you Deacon, but that seriousness isn’t all from my side of the family. I’d never seen anything like it until I met her. Well, putting aside my grandfather. It seemed to me to be half sadness and half fury, and I wondered what in her life could have put that expression in her eyes. And then when you were about three, just a little fellow, I came into the nursery one morning and there you were down on the floor in the sunlight in your trapdoor pajamas, trying to figure a way to fix a broken crayon. And you looked up at me and it was just that look of hers. I’ve thought of that moment many times. I’ll tell you, sometimes it has seemed to me that you were looking back through life, back through troubles I pray you’ll never have, asking me to kindly explain myself.
I can hear you talking with your mother, you asking, she answering. It’s not the words I hear, just the sounds of your voices. You don’t like to go to sleep, and every night she has to talk you into it all over again. I never hear her sing except at night, from the next room, when she’s coaxing you to sleep. And then I can’t make out what song it is she’s singing. Her voice is very low. It sounds beautiful to me, but she laughs when I tell her that.

It’s true, though, that I can’t really tell what’s beautiful anymore. Now that I am about to put on imperishability, mere existence seems the most remarkable thing that could ever be imagined. I passed two young fellows on the street the other day. I know who they are—they work at the garage. They’re not churchgoing, either one of them, just decent rascally young fellows who have to be joking all the time, and there they were, propped against the garage wall in the sunshine, lighting up their cigarettes. They’re always so black with grease and so strong with gasoline I don’t know why they don’t catch fire themselves. They were passing remarks back and forth the way they do and laughing that wicked way they have. And it seemed beautiful to me. It is an amazing thing to watch people laugh, the way it sort of takes them over. Sometimes they really do struggle with it. I see that in church often enough. So I wonder what it is and where it comes from, and I wonder what it expends out of your system, so that you have to do it till you’re done, like crying in a way, I suppose, except that laughter is much more easily spent.
When they saw me coming, of course the joking stopped, but I could see they were still laughing to themselves thinking what the old preacher almost heard them say. I felt like telling them, I appreciate a joke as much as anybody. There have been many occasions in my life when I have wanted to say that. But it’s not a thing people are willing to accept. They want you to be a little bit apart. I felt like saying, I’m a dying man, and I won’t have so many more occasions to laugh, in this world, at least. But that would just make them serious and polite, I suppose. I’m keeping my condition a secret as long as I can. For a dying man I feel pretty good, and that is a blessing. Of course your mother knows about it. She said if I feel good maybe the doctor is wrong. But at my age there’s a limit to how wrong he can be.
And what else should I tell you? I’ll tell you about my grandfather. He was a chaplain in the Union Army. He lost an eye at the battle of Wilson’s Creek, on the day of the death of General Lyon. I do wish you could have known him. It was as if that one good eye of his were somehow ten times an eye. He could make me feel as though he had poked me with a stick, just by looking at me. Not that he meant any harm to speak of. He was just afire with old certainties, and he couldn’t bear all the patience that was required of him by the peace and by the aging of his body and the forgetfulness that had settled over everything. He thought we should all be living at a dead run. I don’t say he was wrong. That would be like contradicting John the Baptist. There is a photograph of my grandfather around the house somewhere. It is a good likeness. It shows a wild-haired, one-eyed, scrawny old fellow with a crooked beard, like a paintbrush left to dry with lacquer in it, staring down the camera as if it had accused him of something terrible, very suddenly, and he is still thinking how to reply, and keeping the question at bay with the sheer ferocity of that stare. Of course there is guilt enough in the best life to account for a look like that.
In his old age my grandfather lived with us here in Gilead. Then he ran off to [REDACTED], where he died. When he left us we all felt his absence bitterly, though he did make things difficult. It was an innocence in him. He lacked patience for anything but the plainest interpretations of the starkest commandments, “To him who asks, give,” in particular. He never kept anything that was worth giving away, or let us keep it, either. He would take laundry right off the line. My mother said he was worse than any thief, worse than a house fire. She said she could probably go to any town in the Middle West and see some pair of pants she’d patched walking by in the street. And we were not the only ones he plundered. My mother said you could tell where a Congregationalist lived by the padlock on the shed door. I believe he was a saint of some kind, in his old age. When someone remarked in his hearing that he had lost an eye in the Civil War, he said, “I prefer to remember that I have kept one.” My mother said it was good to know there was anything he could keep.
I describe my grandfather as if he were simply an eccentric, and as if we tolerated him and were respectful of him and loved him, and he loved us. And that is true. But I believe we knew also that his eccentricities were thwarted passion, that he was full of anger, at us not least, and that the tremors of his old age were in some part the tremors of pent grief. He had lived so many years in a rage and an ecstasy of hope, intent on freeing the captive, proclaiming liberty. He told me once about a vision he had when he was still a boy in [REDACTED], sometime in the eighteen-thirties. He had fallen asleep by the fire, worn out from a day helping his father pull stumps. Someone touched him on the shoulder, and when he looked up, there was the Lord, holding out His arms to him, which were bound in chains. My grandfather said, “Those irons had rankled right down to His bones.” He told me that as the saddest fact, and eyed me with the one seraph eye he had, the old grief fresh in it. He was not yet sixteen, but he said he knew then that he had to come to [REDACTED] and make himself useful to the cause of abolition. (To be useful was the best thing the old men ever hoped for themselves, and to be aimless was their worst fear. I have a lot of respect for that view.) When I spoke to my father about the vision he had described to me, my father just nodded and said, “It was the times.” He himself never claimed any such experience, and he seemed to want to assure me I need not fear that the Lord would come to me with His sorrows. And I took comfort in the assurance. That is a remarkable thing to consider.
My father was in the Army, too, for about a year, until the war ended. He hated the memory of it and would hardly tolerate the mention of it. So he on his side was angry, at the accusations he knew he could see in his father’s unreposefulness, and also in his endless pillaging. In a spirit of Christian forgiveness very becoming to men of the cloth, and to father and son, they had buried their differences. It must be said, however, that they buried them not very deeply, and perhaps more as one would bank a fire than as one would smother it.

They had a particular way of addressing each other when the old bitterness was about to flare up.
“Have I offended you in some way, Reverend?” my father would ask.
And his father would say, “No, Reverend, you have not offended me in any way at all. Not at all.”
And my mother would say, “Now, don’t you two get started.”
Once my grandfather took me to Des Moines on the train to see Bud Fowler play. He was with Keokuk for a season or two. The old man fixed me with that eye of his and told me there was not a man on this round earth who could outrun or outthrow Bud Fowler. I was pretty excited. But nothing happened in that game, or so I thought then. No runs, no hits, no errors. In the fifth inning a thunderstorm that had been lying along the horizon the whole afternoon just sort of sauntered over and put a stop to it all. I remember the groan that went up from the crowd when the heavy rain began. I was only about ten years old, and I was relieved, but it was a terrible frustration to my grandfather. One more terrible frustration for the poor old devil. Even my father called him that, and my mother did, too. But he was a fine preacher in the style of his generation, so my father said.
That day he had brought a little bag of licorice, which really did surprise me. Whenever he put his fingers into it, it rattled with the trembling of his hand, and the sound was just like the sound of fire. I noticed that at the time, and it seemed natural to me. I also more or less assumed that the thunder and the lightning that day were Creation tipping its hat to him, as if to say, Glad to see you here in the stands, Reverend—or maybe, Why, Reverend, what in this grieving world are you doing here at a sporting event? My mother said once that he attracted terrible friendships—using “terrible” in the old sense, of course, and meaning only respect. When he was young, he was an acquaintance of John Brown, and Jim Lane, too.
I read somewhere that a thing that does not exist in relation to anything else cannot itself be said to exist. I can’t quite see the meaning of a statement so purely hypothetical as that, though I may simply lack understanding. But it does remind me of that afternoon when nothing flew through the air, no one slid or drifted or tagged, when there was no waltz at all, so to speak. It seems to me that the storm had to put an end to it, as if it were a fire to be put out, an eruption into this world of an alarming kind of nullity. Null. That word has real power. My grandfather had nowhere to spend his courage, no way to feel it in himself. That was a great pity.
As I write I am aware that my memory has made much of very little. There was that old man my grandfather sitting beside me in his ashy coat, trembling just because he did, sharing out the frugal pleasures of his licorice, maybe with [REDACTED] somehow transforming itself from memory to intention in his mind that very afternoon. (It was just [REDACTED] he went back to, not the town where his church used to be. So we were quite a long time finding him.) Bud Fowler stood at second base with his glove on his hip and watched the catcher. I know he liked to play bare-handed, but that is what I remember, and it’s all I ever could remember about him, so there is no point trying to put the memory right. I followed his career in the newspaper for years, until they started up the Negro Leagues, and then I sort of lost track of him.
My grandfather was not altogether remarkable in his generation. What lives they had, so enviable, so greatly to be pitied. All his friends could sit on their heels into their old age, and did it by preference, as if they had a grudge against furniture. They had been to Lane and Oberlin, they knew their Hebrew and their Greek, but there wasn’t an ounce of spare flesh on any of them. And they had a look of relentless patience about them, like the primitive church still waiting to judge the angels.
Here is a story they used to tell, and chuckle over. I can’t vouch for it entirely, since, talking among themselves the way they did, I doubt they’d have thought embellishing a story was quite the same thing as departing from the truth.
In any case, in some forgotten little abolitionist settlement around here—it might as well have been Gilead—as soon as the people had set up a drygoods store on one side of the road and a livery stable on the other they set about building a tunnel between them. Tunnelling was a very popular activity at that time, and a great deal of ingenuity went into devising hiding places and routes of escape. The topsoil in [REDACTED] goes down so deep that more and larger tunnels were possible here than would have been in less favored regions, say, in [REDACTED]. In this part of the state the soil is also very sandy, of course.
Now, these were sensible and well- meaning people. But they became so absorbed in making this tunnel that they lost sight of certain practical considerations. It became a sort of subterranean civic monument. One of the old men said the only thing missing was a chandelier. Very simply, they made it too large, and too near the surface of the ground, and they couldn’t brace it, either, since wood was so scarce on the prairie in those days that the lumber for such buildings as they had was carted in from [REDACTED]. Even very thoughtful people have lapses of judgment from time to time.
When they had just about finished their digging, a stranger on a big black horse came through town. He paused in just the wrong spot to ask the name of the place, and he and his horse sank right through the road into that tunnel. When the dust settled, the horse was standing more or less shoulder deep in a hole. The man climbed up off him and walked around and around him in a kind of wonderment, not drawing any conclusions at all, try as he might. And when the people came out to ponder this calamity, and took note of his bewilderment, they thought it best to be bewildered, too. So they just stood there with their arms folded, saying, “If that’s not the dangedest thing,” or words to that effect, and they discussed among themselves the risks that went with owning such a large horse. The poor thing began to struggle, of course, so somebody got a bucket of oats and poured a couple of bottles of whiskey over them, and the horse ate them and pretty soon it nodded off. Then the mood of the stranger became very desolate, because the horse was not only standing in a hole but was also unconscious. This latter might not have seemed to crown his afflictions the way it did if he had not himself been a teetotaller. As it was, that snoring horse with its head lying there in the road was a spectacle of gloom for which he truly struggled to find words.

Now, settlements of that kind were the work of people of high religious principle, and they would have taken no pleasure at all in watching this unoffending stranger tear his beard and throw his hat at the ground. Well of course they took a little pleasure in it. But it did seem best to them to get the fellow out of town as quickly as possible so they could deal with that horse, since any Jayhawker coming up from [REDACTED] or any slave hunter passing through would be liable to interpret the spectacle by the light of his own grudges and suspicions. So one of them offered to trade his horse for the one in the hole. You might think the fellow would have considered this trade advantageous, but in fact he sat on the stoop of the drygoods store and weighed it for some time. The horse he was offered was a mare, smallish, which the stranger did allow was an advantage. He tried to look at her teeth and got nipped and cursed the luck that had brought him to that town, and asked to borrow a shovel so he could dig up his horse. So the preacher told him, solemnly, that they had lost all their shovels in a terrible fire. “We’ve got the blades all right, and you’re welcome to the use of them,” he said. “It’s really just the handles we’re missing.” That was a lie, of course, but it was compelled by the urgency of the situation.
Finally the stranger agreed to accept the mare and her saddle and bridle and some odds and ends, twine and boot black, which were meant to restore some part of his faith in cosmic justice.
Once rid of him, the people of the settlement could begin to consider the problem of that horse. Excavating around the horse would only open more tunnel, but they decided that they had no other choice. In the meantime, there the horse was, sobering up, nickering and switching its tail. So they decided to lift a shed off what it had for a foundation and set it down over the horse there in the middle of the road. It was a small shed, so it had to be set over the horse at a diagonal, the length of the horse being, in effect, the hypotenuse of two right triangles.
All of this seems preposterous. But in fact one lapse of judgment can quickly create a situation in which only foolish choices are possible. Someone noticed that the horse’s tail was lying out on the road, so they had to put a child through the shed window to gather it in.
As it happened, there was a young Negro fellow in the settlement at that time, the first fugitive to make his way there. This made the people feel serious and purposeful, and it also heightened their embarrassment about the matter of the horse. The young man, who stayed in the drygoods store unless there was some grounds for alarm, saw and heard everything. And it was pretty obvious how much he wanted to laugh. He was just lolling and languishing with the effort it cost him not to do it. He avoided their eyes, and he bit his lips almost raw. When the shed had been walked down to the road and just as it was being set crosswise over the horse, there came from the store one harsh, painful, unwilled whoop of laughter.
It was at that point they bethought themselves of the fact that the fellow might be feeling some justifiable alarm having to do with the question of their good sense. And indeed it was that very night he did escape, so to speak, and headed north on his own, no doubt rightly concluding that so much had happened to make the region suspect that he had best get some distance from it.
When they realized what had happened, a couple of the men rode after him on the two fairly serviceable horses that had not been traded for the horse in the hole. They hoped to overtake the fugitive in order to provide him with some food and clothes and direct him to the next abolitionist settlement, but for two days he eluded them. Then, when they had stopped for the night and were just lying down to sleep, he stepped out of the dark and said, “I thank y’all kindly but I think I best do this on my own.” They handed him the bundle they had brought for him and he stepped back into the dark and said, “Y’all get that horse out yet?” and laughed a little and that was the last they heard of him.
Well, they did dig a sloping trench they could walk the horse up, so that worked out well enough. But then they had to deal with the fact that a tunnel is a very hard thing to be rid of. They had taken pains, when they were digging it, to scatter the dirt they removed as widely as possible, to conceal the excavation, and there was of course no way to reverse that process. And while they had made the tunnel secretly and at leisure, they were obliged to unmake it openly and in haste. The edges around the hole kept crumbling, falling in, exposing more of it every day. The quickest solution would have been to collapse the tunnel altogether and fill it in from the top, but then the path it made from the store to the stables would have been visible immediately and indefinitely. So they chose a hill to level and began carting earth into the tunnel day and night, having placed a lookout on the roof of the drygoods store to signal the approach of strangers. If asked, they would say they were constructing terraces, as in a certain book the preacher had which illustrated the customs of the [REDACTED]. I suppose that was the best they could do in the circumstances.
These were very hardworking people, but there is simply no way in the world to pack soil from the side, or in any wise to pack it and settle it as firmly as rain and snow and heat have done in the years since the world began. That is to say, with all their hard work to undo all the hard work they had done, with the first good rain the road sagged from one end of that tunnel to the other. Then they began filling it from the top, having no other choice and nothing at all to lose. And still it sagged as often as there was a good rain.
So when the winter finally came and there was a hard freeze and snow, they pried up the few buildings they had and set them on planks and hitched their horses to them and moved the town, such as it was, half a mile down the road. They had to pry up their grave markers to hide where the town had been, and that was a sad thing, though there weren’t more than three or four. The tunnel became a kind of creek bed, a freshet in the spring, with nice grassy banks, and flowers that had run wild from the old gardens. People who didn’t know better would picnic beside it, spreading their blankets and baskets over those poor, forgotten graves, which was, on balance, a pleasant thing.

Your mother is very respectful of my hours up here in the study. She’s proud of my books. She was the one who actually called my attention to the number of boxes I have filled with my sermons and my prayers. Say fifty sermons a year for forty-five years, not counting funerals and so on, of which there have been a great many. Two thousand two hundred and fifty. If they average thirty pages, that’s sixty-seven thousand five hundred pages. Can that be right? I guess it is. Say three hundred pages make a volume. Then I’ve written two hundred and twenty-five books, which puts me up there with Augustine and Calvin, for quantity. That’s amazing. I wrote almost all of it in the deepest hope and conviction. Sifting my thoughts and choosing my words. Trying to say what was true. And I’ll tell you frankly, that was wonderful. Writing has always felt to me like praying, even when I wasn’t writing prayers, as I was, often enough.
This morning I saw a bubble float past my window, fat and wobbly and ripening toward that dragonfly blue they turn just before they burst. So I looked down at the yard and there you were, you and your mother, blowing bubbles at the cat, such a barrage of them that the poor beast was beside herself at the glut of opportunity. She was actually leaping in the air, our insouciant Soapy! Some of the bubbles drifted up through the branches, even above the trees. You two were too intent on the cat to see the celestial consequences of your worldly endeavors. They were very lovely. Your mother was wearing her blue dress and you were wearing your red shirt and you were kneeling on the ground together with Soapy between and that effulgence of bubbles rising, and so much laughter. Ah, this life, this world.
I had a dream once that I was down at the river looking around in the shallows for something or other—when I was a boy it would have been tadpoles—and my grandfather stalked out of the trees in that furious way he had, scooped his hat full of water and threw it, so a sheet of water came sailing toward me, billowing in the air like a veil, and fell down over me. Then he put his hat back on his head and stalked off into the trees again and left me standing there in that glistening river, amazed at myself and shining like an apostle. I’ll tell you, if my grandfather did throw his mantle over me, so to speak, he did it long before I came into this world. The holiness of his life imputed a holiness to mine, or to my vocation, that I have tried to diminish as little as I could.
Still, he was difficult. When he took off west, he left an old army blanket at my father’s house, a bundle rolled up and tied with twine. Perhaps it was too precious to discard and too awkward to take along. But perhaps it was meant as a last, unanswerable rebuke. In any case, when we learned he’d died out there in [REDACTED] we opened it. There were some old shirts that had been white once, and a few dozen sermons and some other papers wrapped with twine, and a pistol. Of course it was the pistol that interested me most. It was big and old, with ornaments on the handle sort of like you see on cast-iron radiators. But my father was disgusted. These things my grandfather had left were an offense to him. So he buried them. Then a month or so later he dug the gun back up and threw it in the river. If he had left it in the ground it would be just about under the back fence, maybe a foot or two beyond it. But he dug it up and set it on a stump and broke it the best he could with a maul he had borrowed and tied it up in a piece of burlap. He and I walked to the river, a good way downstream from where we usually went to fish, and he flung the pieces of it as far as he could into the water.
I was twelve years old when my father took me with him to find my grandfather’s grave. At that time my family had been living in Gilead about ten years, my father serving the church here. Then the old man ran off to become a sort of itinerant preacher, or so we believed. He had died in [REDACTED] and was buried there, near a town that had pretty well lost its people. A drought had driven most of them away, those who had not already left for towns closer to the railroad. Well, we got lost out there, and we wandered for a good many days. It was one night when we were sleeping in the loft of a barn someone had abandoned, and some owls woke us up with their cavilling, that my father told me a story from his childhood, of being awakened by sounds in the night and walking outside to see old John Brown’s mule coming out through the doors of his father’s church, being coaxed down those wooden steps in the dark of the moon. He heard the noise of balking and a sad, grave voice saying, “Doing fine, now. Doing just fine.” Then four horses after it, abrupt and agile, all with their saddles already cinched on. The men mounted, two men on one horse leading the other horse along behind them—one of the men was wounded and had to be held—and they rode away without a word. Then in a few minutes he heard the barn door open and he heard their horse breathing and stepping and his father speaking to it, and then his father rode away, too.
My father said he went up to the church and sat there in the dark, wondering what he should do. He wasn’t even ten years old at the time. He said the church smelled like horses and gunpowder and it smelled like sweat. (In those days they didn’t have bullets like the ones we have, so they’d have been using the time to load up their weapons with powder and shot.) Old John Brown and his men had pushed the benches and the communion table against the walls to make room for the animals. No doubt they’d slept on the benches. Certainly the wounded man had, because there was a good deal of blood on one of them, and on the floor beside it. That was the first thing my father saw when the light began to come.
So he dragged that bench out behind the church and stood it on its end, so it would fall into the deep grass on its side. That was to trouble the surface of the grass as little as possible. Then he took a shovel and a broom and cleaned up after the horses as well as he could. He got a bucket of water and a piece of soap to scrub down the bloodstain, but that just made it bigger. So he ended up sloshing water over the whole floor to make that spot less conspicuous. His thought was that if the men who slept in the church were being pursued, their pursuers might come at any time and they would be looking for things like mule droppings in a church or blood on a pew.

But those same pursuers would surely be curious to find him scrubbing out a church before the sun was well up. Then it occurred to him how unlike his father it was to leave at such a time, making no arrangements whatever for putting things right, leaving him to wander from his bed into this ridiculous situation, in which it seemed there was no right thing to be done. He was thinking these things and lugging a bucket of water up into the church when he saw a man in a U.S. Army uniform sitting on a bench against the wall.
“You’ve got it looking right nice in here,” the soldier said. Then he plucked at the ripped knee of his trousers and said, “My dang horse bolted on me. An owl hooted or something, and off she went. You folks wouldn’t have a horse I could requisition. It would only be for a day or two.”
“You’d have to speak to my father.”
The soldier said, “Your father isn’t here. I’d guess he’s ridden off somewhere on the very horse I was hoping to borrow.” Then he said, “You heard of Osawatomie John Brown? Of course you have. Everybody has. I can see you’re a fine boy. Don’t worry, I’m not going to make you go telling lies right here in a church, little brother. You know the kinds of things John Brown has been up to.”
People did sometimes speak, quietly, about the events at Osawatomie. They insisted Old Brown was nowhere near the place when it happened. Or they pointed out that the 556e6974656420537461746573ans had attacked him first and killed his son and his friends. Not that even this justified vengefulness in a Christian man, they would say, though clearly they felt it came very, very close. Still, it was a sombre thing, a fearful thing.
My father told the soldier that he had heard stories.
The soldier nodded. “There are decent folks around here who’d help him any chance they got. Ministers of the Gospel. They’d let him bring his old mule right into their church if he asked them to. They’d deem it an honor. I find that remarkable. Those fugitives would come in with their weapons and their wounds and their dirty boots, they’d come in bleeding on the floor, and that would be just fine. Then a soldier of the United States government comes along looking for them, as he is paid to do, and nobody even offers him a cup of coffee.”
My father said, “We might have coffee. I’m pretty sure we do.”
The soldier stood up. He said, “My platoon left me about two miles from here and took off east. They knew where those fellows would likely be off to next. So if your father’s gone with them, he might be seeing a world of trouble right about now. I thought I should tell you that before I drank your coffee.”
My father told me that his lips were so numb he couldn’t move them to speak. The soldier said, “I’ll just get myself a drink at your well.” He walked out of the church and got his drink and walked away up the road. And my grandfather shot a soldier that very afternoon. “It was the fellow I spoke with in the church,” my father said. “I know it was.”

The soldier had walked to the next farm and requisitioned their horse and taken off in the general direction he thought his platoon had gone. Brown and the others had circled back and to the south, knowing they would be followed and making for the hills. And my grandfather was ambling along toward home with that big gun in his belt and two bloody shirts under his arm, one with bullet holes in it, which was very foolish. And he was bare-chested under his coat, since he had swapped his own shirt for the two he brought back with him. But he was never really a practical man again after that day, my father said. I would not have known where to find the origins of the old man’s impracticality, but I am certainly willing to vouch for the fact of it. In any case, a lone soldier did approach him and did hail him down, and he was indeed riding a chestnut horse that could have been the neighbor’s. The soldier began to question him, and my grandfather was caught without a lie. But he had that gun, and the gun was loaded.
The old man only told my father what had happened because my father told him about finding the soldier in the church. “Dark fellow, you say? Kind of a drawl to his speech? Well, I did, I winged him,” my grandfather said. “Then his horse bolted. He took quite a spill.” My grandfather left him there on the ground. “Old Brown asked if I’d be willing to cover their retreat if occasion arose. I said I would, and I did.” He said, “What was I to do with him, bring him back here?” His point was that the congregation had put a lot of thought and effort into hollow walls and hidden cellars in their various cabins and outbuildings, tunnels that started from false-bottomed potato bins and opened up under haystacks a hundred yards away and so forth. There was a false-bottomed coffin they kept in the church, and an open grave with a floor of burlap stretched over a couple of boards and covered with dirt, opening on a tunnel that came up in the woodshed. All that effort was for freeing the captives, and it had to be protected for their sake. The soldier could only have concluded that my grandfather was in serious cahoots with John Brown, and attention of that kind could destroy everything.
He told my father that it was a mortally serious business, life and death. He should never speak a word about it to anyone, and he should be ready with a lie in case someone came inquiring. So, waking and sleeping, my father thought about that soldier by himself out there on the plains, wounded, without a shadow to hide in or a drop to drink, and tried to imagine himself saying he had not seen such a man, had not spoken to him. Well, the authorities never did come to talk to them about that soldier, so my father thought he probably had died out there. He said, “The relief I suffered every day they didn’t come was horrible.”
After that my grandfather would be gone for days sometimes. There were Sundays when he would ride his horse right up to the church steps just when it was time for service to begin and fire that gun in the air to let the people know he was back. They’d find him standing in the pulpit, with his eyes red and his face pale and dust in his beard, hands trembling, all ready to preach on judgment and grace. My father said, “I never dared to ask him what he’d been up to. I couldn’t risk the possibility of knowing things that were worse than my suspicions.”

You see, my grandfather would sometimes preach wearing one of those shirts. The Sunday after old John Brown was hanged, he wore the one with the bullet holes in it. He preached on the new wound that had been made in the Lord’s side, and all the people wept. He preached the young men right into that war. Many of them never came back, and, of the ones that did, some brought camp fever, and their families went down with it. My father said there were so many fresh graves the cemetery smelled like a plowed field. The widows and orphans drifted away over the years, and the Methodists bought the land and burned the church down because it was past saving.
It was not long after the trip my grandfather and I took to Des Moines, to the baseball game, that we lost him, or he lost himself. One Sunday a few weeks later, the old man, who always went to church with us, stood up and walked out about five minutes into my father’s sermon. The text, I remember, was “Consider the lilies, how they grow.” My mother sent me to look for him. I saw him walking down the road and I ran to catch up with him, but he turned that eye on me and said, “Get back where you belong!” So I did.
He appeared at the house again after dinner. He walked into the kitchen, where my mother and I were clearing things away, and cut himself a piece of bread and was about to leave again without a single word to us. But my father came up the porch steps just then and stood in the doorway, watching him.
“Reverend,” my grandfather said when he saw him.
My father said, “Reverend.”
My mother said, “It’s Sunday. It’s the Lord’s Day. It’s the Sabbath.”
My father said, “We are all well aware of that.” But he didn’t step out of the doorway. So she said to my grandfather, “Sit down and I’ll fix a plate for you. You can’t get by on a piece of bread.”
And he did sit down. So my father came in and sat down across from him. They were silent for some time.
Then my father said, “Did my sermon offend you in some way? Those few words you heard of it?”
The old man shrugged. “Nothing in it to offend. I just wanted to hear some preaching. So I went over to the Negro church.”
After a minute my father asked, “Well, did you hear some preaching?”
My grandfather shrugged. “The text was ‘Love your enemies.’ ”
“That seems to me to be an excellent text in the circumstances,” my father said. (This was just after somebody set a fire behind the Negro church. It wasn’t a big fire—someone heaped brush against the back wall and put a match to it, and someone else saw the smoke and put the flames out with a shovel. That church sold up some years ago, and what was left of the congregation moved to [REDACTED]. By then it was down to three or four families. The pastor came by with a sack of plants he’d dug up from around the front steps, mainly lilies. He thought I might want them, and they’re still there along the front of our church, needing to be thinned. I didn’t know the Negro pastor well myself, but he said his father knew my grandfather. He told me they were sorry to leave, because this town had once meant a great deal to them.)
The old man said, “It was all very Christian.”
My father said, “You sound disappointed, Reverend.”
My grandfather put his head in his hands. He said, “Reverend, no words could be bitter enough, no day could be long enough. There is just no end to it. Disappointment. I eat and drink it. I wake and sleep it.”
My father’s lips were white. He said, “Well, Reverend, I know you placed great hope in that war. My hopes are in peace, and I am not disappointed. Because peace is its own reward. Peace is its own justification.”
My grandfather said, “And that’s just what kills my heart, Reverend. That the Lord never came to you. That the seraphim never touched a coal to your lips—”
My father stood up from his chair. He said, “I remember when you walked to the pulpit in that shot-up, bloody shirt with that pistol in your belt. And I had a thought as powerful and clear as any revelation. And it was, This has nothing to do with Jesus. Nothing. Nothing. And I was, and I am, as certain of that as anyone could ever be of any so-called vision. I defer to no one in this. Not to you, not to Paul the Apostle, not to John the Divine. Reverend.”
My grandfather said, “So-called vision. The Lord, standing there beside me, had one hundred times the reality for me that you have standing here now!”
After a minute my father said, “No one would doubt that, Reverend.”
It was clear from the look in that eye of his that the old man took his meaning. And that was when the chasm truly opened. Not long afterward my grandfather was gone. He left a note lying on the kitchen table which said:
**{: .break one} ** No good has come, no evil is ended. That is your peace. Without vision the people perish. The Lord bless you and keep you. **
I still have that note. I saved it in my Bible.
I believe that the old man did have far too narrow an idea of what a vision might be. Perhaps that is the one thing I wish to tell you. Sometimes the visionary aspect of any particular day comes to you in the memory of it, or it opens to you over time. For example, whenever I take a child into my arms to be baptized, I am, so to speak, comprehended in the experience more fully, having seen more of life, knowing better what it means to affirm the sacredness of the human creature. I believe there are visions that come to us only in memory, in retrospect, or in imagination, and it is waste and ingratitude not to honor such things as visions, whether you yourself happen to have seen them or not.
I mentioned that I went out to [REDACTED] with my father to find my grandfather’s grave. It took my father months to find out where the old man had ended up, lots of letters of inquiry to churches and newspapers and so on. He put a great deal of effort into it. Finally someone wrote back and sent a little package with my grandfather’s watch and a beat-up old Bible and some letters, which I learned later were just a few of my father’s letters of inquiry, no doubt given to the old man by people who thought they had induced him to come home.
It grieved my father bitterly that the last words he said to his father were very angry words, and there could never be any reconciliation between them in this life. He did truly honor his father, generally speaking, and it was hard for him to accept that things should have ended the way they did.

That was in 1892, so travel was still pretty hard. We went as far as we could by train. Then we took some bad directions and got lost. The roads were terrible, swamped in dust where they were travelled and baked into ruts where they were not. My father was carrying some tools in a gunnysack so he could try to put the grave to rights a little, and I was carrying what we had for food, hardtack and jerky and the few little yellow apples we picked up along the road here and there, and our changes of shirts and socks, all soon filthy.
My father was set on finding that grave despite any hardship. Never before in my life had I wondered where I would come by my next drink of water, and I number it among my blessings that I have not had occasion to wonder since. Once, to make the point that I should study while I was young and learning came easily, my grandfather had told me about a man he knew when he first came to [REDACTED], a preacher newly settled there. He said, “That fellow just was not confident of his Hebrew. He’d walk fifteen miles across open country in the dead of winter to settle a point of interpretation. We’d have to thaw him out before he could tell us what it was he had on his mind.” My father laughed, and said, “The strange part is, that may even be true.” But I remembered the story at the time because it seemed to me that my father and I were doing something very similar. There were times when I truly believed we might just wander off and die. Once when my father was gathering sticks for firewood into my arms he said we were like Abraham and Isaac on the way to Mt. Moriah. I’d thought as much myself.
It was so bad out there we couldn’t buy food. We stopped at a farmstead and asked the lady, and she took a little bundle down from a cupboard and showed us some coins and bills and said, “It might as well be Confederate for all the good it does me.” Then my father asked after his father, and she said, Why, yes, he’d been in the neighborhood. She didn’t know he had died but she knew where he was likely to have been buried, and she showed us to what remained of a road that would take us right to the place, not three miles from where we stood. The road was overgrown, but as you walked along you could see the ruts. The brush grew lower in them, because the earth was still packed so hard. We walked past that graveyard twice. The two or three headstones in it had fallen over and it was all grown up with weeds and grass. The third time, my father noticed a fence post, so we walked over to it, and we could see a handful of graves, a row of maybe seven or eight and below it a half row, swamped with that dead brown grass. I remember that the incompleteness of it seemed sad to me. In the second row we found a marker someone had made by stripping a patch of bark off a log and then driving nails partway in and bending them down flat so they made the letters rev ames. The R looked like the A and the S was a backward Z, but there was no mistaking it.
It was evening by then, so we walked back to the lady’s farm and washed at her cistern and drank from her well and slept in her hayloft. She brought us a supper of cornmeal mush. I loved that woman like a second mother. I loved her to the point of tears. We were up before daylight to milk and cut kindling and draw her a bucket of water, and she met us at the door with a breakfast of fried mush with blackberry preserves melted over it and a spoonful of top milk on it, and we ate standing there at the stoop in the chill and the dark and it was perfectly wonderful.
Then we went back to the graveyard, which was just a patch of ground with a half-fallen fence around it and a gate on a chain weighted with a cowbell. My father and I fixed up the fence as well as we could. He broke up the ground on the grave a little with his jackknife. But then he decided we should go back to the farmhouse again to borrow a couple of hoes and make a better job of it. He said, “We might as well look after these other folks, while we’re here.” This time the lady had a dinner of navy beans waiting for us. I don’t remember her name, which seems a pity. She had an index finger that was off at the first knuckle. My father said she spoke as if her people might be from [REDACTED], but he didn’t ask her. She cried when we said goodbye to her, and wiped her face with her apron. My father asked if there was a letter or a message she would like us to carry back with us, and she said no. He asked if she would like to come along, and she thanked us and shook her head and said, “There’s the cow.” She said, “We’ll be just fine when the rain comes.”
That graveyard was about the loneliest place you could imagine. If I were to say it was going back to nature, you might get the idea that there was some sort of vitality about the place. But it was parched and sunstricken. It was hard to imagine the grass had ever been green. Everywhere you stepped little grasshoppers would fly up by the score, making that snap they do, like striking a match. My father put his hands in his pockets and looked around and shook his head. Then he started cutting the brush back with a hand scythe he had brought, and we set up the markers that had fallen over—most of the graves were just outlined with stones, with no names or dates or anything on them at all. My father said to be careful where I stepped. There were small graves here and there that I hadn’t noticed at first, or I hadn’t quite realized what they were. I certainly didn’t want to walk on them, but until he cut the weeds down I couldn’t tell where they were, and then I knew I had stepped on some of them, and I felt sick. Only in childhood have I felt guilt like that, and pity. I still dream about it. My father always said when someone dies the body is just a suit of old clothes the spirit doesn’t want anymore. But there we were, half killing ourselves to find a grave, and as cautious as we could be about where we put our feet.
We worked a good while at putting things to rights. It was hot, and there was such a sound of grasshoppers, and of wind rattling that dry grass. Then we scattered seeds around, bee balm and coneflower and sunflower and bachelor’s buttons and sweet pea. They were seeds we always saved out of our own garden. When we finished, my father sat down on the ground beside his father’s grave. He stayed there for a good while, plucking at little whiskers of straw that still remained on it, fanning himself with his hat. I think he regretted that there was nothing more for him to do. Finally he got up and brushed himself off and we stood there together with our miserable clothes all damp and our hands all dirty from the work, and the first crickets rasping and the flies really beginning to bother and the birds crying out the way they do when they’re about ready to settle for the night, and my father bowed his head and began to pray, remembering his father to the Lord. I missed my grandfather mightily, and I felt the need of pardon, too. But that was a very long prayer.

Every prayer seemed long to me at that age, and I was truly bone tired. I tried to keep my eyes closed, but after a while I had to look around a little. And this is something I remember very well. At first I thought I saw the sun setting in the east. I knew where east was, because the sun was just over the horizon when we got there that morning. Then I realized that what I saw was a full moon rising just as the sun was going down. Each of them was standing on its edge, with the most wonderful light between them. It seemed as if you could touch it, as if there were palpable currents of light passing back and forth, or as if there were great taut skeins of light suspended between them. I wanted my father to see it, but I knew I’d have to startle him out of his prayer, and I wanted to do it the best way, so I took his hand and kissed it. And I said, “Look at the moon.” And he did. We just stood there until the sun was down and the moon was up. They seemed to float on the horizon for quite a long time, I suppose because they were both so bright you couldn’t get a clear look at them. And that grave, and my father and I, were exactly between them, which seemed amazing to me then, since I hadn’t given much thought to the nature of the horizon.
When my father and I were walking along the road in the quiet and the moonlight, away from the graveyard where we’d found the old man, my father said, “You know, everybody in [REDACTED] saw the same thing we saw.” At the time (remember I was twelve) I took him to mean the entire state was a witness to our miracle. I thought that whole state could vouch for the particular blessing my father brought down by praying there at his father’s grave, or the glory that my grandfather had somehow emanated out of his parched repose. Later I realized my father would have meant that the sun and moon had aligned themselves as they did with no special reference to the two of us. He never encouraged any talk about visions or miracles, except the ones in the Bible.
I can’t tell you, though, how I felt, walking along beside him that night, along that rutted road, through that empty world—what a sweet strength I felt, in him, and in myself, and all around us. I am glad I didn’t understand, because I have rarely felt joy like that, and assurance. It was like one of those dreams where you’re filled with some extravagant feeling you might never have in life, it doesn’t matter what it is, even guilt or dread, and you learn from it what an amazing instrument you are, so to speak, what a power you have to experience beyond anything you might ever actually need. Who would have thought that the moon could dazzle and flame like that? Despite what he’d said, I could see that my father was a little shaken. He had to stop and wipe his eyes.
Still, even then I could not pray to abide in that great unconsuming fire, that everlasting Pentecost, that fiery furnace in which the old John Ames walked so many years. It shames me to say it—my courage fails when I try to pray that you might abide in it. It has seemed to me sometimes as though the Lord breathes on this poor gray ember of creation and it turns to radiance—for a moment or a year or the span of a life. And then it sinks back into itself again, and to look at it no one would know it had anything to do with fire, or light.
I love the prairie! So often I have seen the dawn come and the light flood over the land and everything turn radiant at once, that word “good” so profoundly affirmed in my soul that I am amazed I should be allowed to witness such a thing. There may have been a more wonderful first moment “when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy,” but for all I know to the contrary they still do sing and shout, and they certainly might well. I can’t help imagining that you will leave Gilead sooner or later. It’s fine if you have done that, or you intend to do it. These little towns meant so much once. Now they do look like whatever hope becomes after it begins to weary a little, then weary a little more. But hope deferred is still hope. I love this town. I think sometimes of going into the ground here as a last wild gesture of love—perhaps I, too, will smolder away the time until a great and general incandescence.
I will pray that you might be overcome with a beautiful courage, as I never was. And then I’ll pray that the Lord might pity and forgive you for it.
I’ll pray, and then I’ll sleep. 

