THE ALPINE SLIDE
By Rebecca Curtis

The first summer I was old enough to work, Jacques Michaud opened the alpine slide. The slide was ten miles from the lake, in the mountains. Over the years, various businessmen had leased it for a summer or two and failed to make it a success. But Jacques Michaud was from [REDACTED], and maybe he thought that made a difference. Or maybe he hadn’t heard or believed the stories of previous failures, or maybe he thought the economy had changed. At least that was what he said when he hired us, and the economists were saying it, too.
Originally, the place had been a ski area. Thus the lodge: a low, flat, brown-shingled building, and the chairlift, a forty-year-old contraption with shiny red metal slats for seats. The lodge was in a grassy valley and the mountain was covered with pines. It was beautiful. But the peak wasn’t the highest in the state, and the slopes weren’t the steepest. Sometimes people came from [REDACTED] to ski, but mostly they drove right past, headed farther north, to the White Mountains.
After the ski area had gone bankrupt, someone saw the abandoned lodge and lift and decided to lay down the alpine slide, two parallel tracks, each a mile long, that began near the top of the chairlift and wound their way down the mountain through the trees, twisting and dipping over spills of glacial rock until they shot out into the flat fields of the valley. The sleds were plastic and had two steel runners on the bottom. When the brakes were all the way off they could go thirty miles an hour, slipping up the high sides on the curves and lifting slightly from the track on the dips. The ride was two minutes long, and you flew down the mountain as you flew in dreams, through seemingly solitary woods that leaned in of their own accord to block out the blue above. It was unforgettable, beyond your control, and you believed you were about to die.
People always said the ride was wonderful, but they also forgot that it existed.
In the late seventies, a businessman made the place into a theme park by adding a waterslide. He put a cafeteria in the lodge, a snack shop by the lift, and constructed a craft village—a row of six chalet-style huts where local artisans sold landscape paintings, goddesses carved from driftwood, and candles shaped like frogs. When that park failed, another businessman made a better park by adding the Cannonball, a man-size tunnel that you slid through until you were shot out into a pool. The fibreglass tube scratched your ass, and the water that sprinkled down from above made you feel as if you were drowning. The ride was seven seconds long, uncomfortable, and without danger or pleasure, but women’s bikini tops sometimes popped off when they hit the pool and, for a while, the Cannonball worked. Then the water park at Bear Beach opened its own Cannonball, and the slide shut down for good.
We had looted it. By we I mean all the local teen-agers, though my own participation was minor and of a different nature, since I lived nearby and considered it mine. Behind my house, there was an old carriage road that went halfway over the mountain, and when I was twelve and thirteen I’d follow it to its dead-end, near the top of the lift, walk down the abandoned slide, and enter the lodge through a broken window. Inside, I took a good look at the cheap white dinnerware and ashtrays scattered around the nubbly blue carpet, tapped my fingers on the stacked-up plastic tables, and inhaled the stink of beer and mildew and the eggy scent of old sex. There were wooden slope signs—“Trigger,” “Splinter,” “Bonebreak,” and “Gunrock”—on the walls, and faded pink maps of the ski area, the mountains, the lake, and the state. But what I liked best was to lie back on the hot slide and stare at the sun. Older kids threw parties in the parking lot at night, made bonfires in the acres of dirt, and had sex in the empty manager’s office amid the mouse turds and dust, but they were never very subtle or quiet and soon after they got there the police would arrive and shoo them away.
Jacques Michaud was only renting the park, but he used his own money to replace the broken windows and repair the lift. He tore up the old nubbly blue carpet and put down a new nubbly blue carpet and restocked the cafeteria with frozen burgers and hot dogs, cases of soda, and industrial sheets of Jell-O and chocolate cake. He whitewashed the bathrooms and shower huts and planted cheap, hardy, orange brushlike flowers all around the park. Then he polished his car, a black 1956 Jaguar Mark VII sedan, and made stops at businesses all around the area, chatting up owners and dropping off batches of shiny purple brochures. Toward the end of this he drove to the Exxon station where my father worked as a mechanic and asked him if he had any kids, preferably daughters, who could work at the slide.
I was fifteen, and a daughter, and my world was circumscribed. I was expected to earn nothing less than A-minuses in school. I ate dinner with my family every night at six and was in bed by ten. I was not allowed to ride in cars with boys. My parents had other rules, all with the same purpose: I could not date, or be alone with a boy. I’d never been kissed. I longed to be kissed. I spent a lot of time at home, in my room. I was also shy, and when I spoke sarcasm came out of my mouth.
But I could work. My father believed in work, and he was intrigued by Jacques, enough to go on at length about the park’s likely failure. Too far from the lake, the motels. No one wanted a dry slide in summer. “He says he’s Canadian,” my father said. “But he doesn’t have an accent. To me, that means he’s brilliant. He seems like a good guy. But I just don’t think there’s any way he’ll make money from the park.”
I rode my bike to the interview. Jacques Michaud’s Jaguar was parked in the dirt lot outside the lodge. My father had said that it resembled a Rolls-Royce, but to me it looked like a hearse. On the slope beyond the lot, gold grasses waved and the metal towers of the lift glinted white. The wires holding the chairs shimmered like mirages in the heat. A hawk floated in the sky like an ash.
The lodge was so dark that I couldn’t see. But I could smell a cigar. Someone—Jacques Michaud, I guessed—said something from the corner. His voice was low but casual, as if he were utterly relaxed. He was sitting at a lunch table. He got up and pulled out a cafeteria chair and told me to have a seat. Then he sat back down. He had a dinner plate in front of him, with the remains of a ham sandwich on it, which he was using as an ashtray.

His skin was dark and his hair was white. Pure white. He wasn’t old—or he was, to me, but not enough to have white hair. He was forty, maybe fifty. It was hard to tell. His body was muscular—he was wearing shorts and a T-shirt, and his legs were brown, almost hairless, and thick.
I was shocked that he wasn’t wearing a suit. I’d worn black polyester pants and a stiff white shirt, which was now wet from sweat, and I had had a lot of trouble pedalling my bike along the highway in my dress shoes.
“Would you like a cigar?” he asked. He waved toward the kitchen. “I have more in back.” He took a puff, held it up and read the tiny silver letters on the dark-red band. He squinted. “They’re not illegal,” he said. “But they’re pretty good anyway.”
I considered cigar smoking disgusting and lethal. But I was looking at him and considering having one when he said, “I was kidding.”
I nodded stupidly.
He glanced at his watch. He hadn’t seemed to look at me at all. “You’re too young,” he said. “But I’ll hire you.”
“You haven’t even interviewed me,” I said.
“Well,” he said. He put the cigar on the plate. “You seem like an honest person to me. You look honest. And I met your father. He’s a good man.”
“He’s good at fixing cars,” I said.
He leaned forward. “That’s important. It’s important to fix cars.”
I wasn’t sure what to do with this. I felt as if he were saying something intimate. But he was talking about cars. My father was a shame between us, acknowledged and then forgotten.
What I understood then was that the world was contriving in secret, with swiftness and accuracy, to keep Jacques Michaud from making the park a success. But, herculean, he was lifting it on his shoulders. I was invited to be with him while he lifted it. Perhaps I could help.
I liked how he looked. His white hair curled over his broad forehead a bit, which made him seem oddly boyish. He had a wide, hawklike nose, a strong chin, and full pink lips.
“Let’s say I interview you,” he said. “I’ve hired everyone I need. The law says you’re too young to work moving machinery. That means you can’t load sleds on the lift, top or bottom. So why should I hire you—what can you do?”
My spine straightened. “Well,” I said. “I can stand at the bottom of the slide. I can also sit at the top of the slide and show people how to use their sleds. I know CPR. I could work at the waterslide.” I listed other things. He listened without expression. “I suppose I could work in the cafeteria,” I said. “Though I’d really rather work at the slide—”
“Stop,” he said. “You’re hired.”
“Thank you so much,” I said.
He put his cigar on the plate and came around to my side of the table. I stood up. I assumed the interview was over. His hand came out and I stared at it. “Shake hands,” he said.
I did. His hand was large and warm.
“Now we’re partners,” he said. Then he gave me some forms to fill out and disappeared into the basement.
I was about to leave when he appeared at the top of the basement stairs. “Hey, Bowman,” he said. “Do you know what I’m counting on to make the park a success?”
I shook my head.
“I’m counting on you,” he said. “You are excellent. I’ve hired an excellent staff. And you will be excellent, too. I can tell.”
No one he’d hired was over twenty-three, and most were eighteen. The other employees were the most popular people in my school, but, because I was the youngest by far, they accepted me as a kind of younger retarded sister. We were bonded by the fact that we all loved Jacques. He was the kind of man who was willing to make a group of kids his friends. This didn’t mean that we weren’t aware of an aura of failure about him, that we didn’t sense that he was lonely and sad or feel glad that we weren’t him. But he had given us jobs. He paid us more than minimum wage. And he did not require us to wear uniforms. The boys wore dark swim trunks of their choosing, and the girls could wear whatever. Most wore bikinis. We were given fifteen-minute breaks every three hours, and during that time we were free to ride the waterslide to cool off. The lodge had a bar in the basement that had originally been for skiers, which Jacques didn’t open to the public. But sometimes at the end of the day, when the pink sun was lighting just the tips of the wheat around the parking lot and all the customers had left and we’d finished putting the sleds away and hosing down the platforms, he opened it for us.
I went once. The carpet was the same nubbly blue as the cafeteria’s—only it hadn’t been replaced—and the room had a long black bar, a bunch of barstools, and some wooden tables and chairs. I sat at a table with some other workers and listened to what they said. I was perfectly happy. The bar smelled like incense, grease, and nutmeg. The sun was coming in through the basement window and illuminating the glasses on the tables and the grains in the wood. I could see Jacques at another table. Every few minutes he’d say something, and then he’d sit back and his hands would spread in the air. He was talking to Amy Goldman, who would be a senior in the fall but was already eighteen because a virus had kept her out of school for a year. He was teaching her how to bartend. “At your natural speed,” he said. “Don’t rush.”
She said, “One, two, three, four.”
“Good,” he said. “You’re a slow counter. That means you count to three and a half. Then stop.” She nodded. “That’s it,” he said. “You never need to measure. You just count.” He said something else that I couldn’t hear, and she laughed. Sometime later, I heard Jacques telling a story. I’d missed the first half. In the second half, a young airline pilot was excited about his new fiancée, who was riding in coach. Once the plane hit cruising altitude, he met up with her in the lavatory. Jacques paused. “And when the stewardess went into the cockpit to ask the pilots how they wanted their coffee,” he said, “the old guy was asleep by himself.”
“No one was flying the plane?” Amy Goldman asked.
Jacques smiled. “No one was flying the plane.” Then he shrugged. “Autopilot usually does fine. In those days, all the airlines had a pretty late retirement age, and the old guy fell asleep a lot.”
“So what happened?”
“They got fired,” he said.
Someone asked him if he’d been the younger pilot.
“No,” he said. He picked up his glass and drank. “The story just went around.”
He went upstairs to use the bathroom then, and when he came back down he sat next to me. “Bowman,” he said. He asked me how I was, and how I liked working at the slide. I said that I was good, and that I liked my job. Then he put his hand on my shoulder and said that I’d better go home.

When I got home, I was grounded. From now on, my parents said, I would come home right after work. There was no reason to stay. I told them I’d just wanted to talk. “Talk at work,” they said. “You can talk to those people all day.”
So each night I pedalled home along the highway, swerving almost into the ditch every time a car came, and imagined that I was back in the lodge telling stories, even though in real life I almost never talked.
I read books. My favorites were the ones in which young Victorian women were forced by adverse circumstance to have sex with swarthy highway robbers who were twice their age and had impeccable manners and great taste in jewels. On the front of these books, the women’s shining satin bodices were being ripped apart not by the big-muscled highway robbers themselves but through sheer spontaneous combustion, helped along by the women’s rapid breathing patterns. The books were all the same. Once the robber gets the woman alone in his ramshackle but comfortable hideaway, which includes a big satin-pillow-filled bed, he looks around, notes the absence of a second bed, and says that if he were a gentleman he would sleep on the floor. But he is not a gentleman.
She tells him that he is disgusting, a villain, a scoundrel, that her father will discover the abduction and will certainly take revenge, likely with dogs.
The robber finds this laughable.
“It is not in my nature to force you, Carlotta,” he tells the woman once they are in the bed. “But I will have to kiss you, you know. . . . ”
With one thick finger he compels her to look into his face. His black eyes are smoldering like burning bread. His lips are so rough that they are cracked into segments.
“After all,” he says, “I went to such trouble to abduct you.”
“No,” Carlotta whispers. “I loathe you . . . loathe you . . .”
Two brief pages later, she’s pregnant and locked in a tower.
I prayed that something similar would happen to me.
Jacques lived in an empty room in the lodge’s basement, behind the manager’s office. It had one small window at ground level, which he sometimes threw a blanket over. On the floor was a clock radio, and a queen-size mattress. The only other furniture was a dresser full of T-shirts and shorts. On the dresser was a picture of a babe. An older babe, but a babe—a redhead with an angry look on her face. The woman was Jacques’s dead wife. Or that was what we’d heard. Her death had left Jacques alone in the world. He missed her every day. He’d travelled all around the globe. Now he thought he’d settle down. He’d picked [REDACTED] because he’d heard it was beautiful. Second only to [REDACTED]. He’d seen the park, and it had seemed like a great opportunity. A beautiful niche in the mountains. Cheap rent. He contacted the owners, and had them lend him the keys. He’d carried a sled up the mountain, and ridden it down. He’d made up his mind right then. He didn’t see how such an incredible feeling couldn’t be a success.
We were not excellent workers, mostly because we were stunned by the pleasure of one another’s company. Soon our legs became scraped from lifting sleds, and our arms grew sore and then muscular. Our skin turned gold. Our fifteen-minute breaks stretched to thirty. Instead of half price, our snacks were free, because the snack-stand crew, a lower echelon of workers who were trapped in grease and darkness, offered them to us that way.
The waterslide had an office, a white cement room that looked out onto the pool through a window, and in it was a black vinyl chair that rolled on three silver wheels, the fourth having been lost, some water-stained pamphlets on how to perform CPR, and an enormous black stereo with two cassette decks that played a joyous cacophony of Megadeth and the Beastie Boys. This office became the site of passionate and private discussions, during which the participants leaned a chair against the door and propped a mat over the window.
On the platform at the top of the lift, teen-agers stretched into strange nature-worshipping poses and smoked cigarettes. Their job was to tell customers to raise the safety bar, to help them off the chairs, and to hoist the sleds from the chair backs, but when no customers were visible they sat in a circle on the platform and told dirty jokes and played cards.
The mountain crew was always thirsty and sending someone down the hill for drinks. The waterslide crew was thirsty and hungry, too. As the youngest, I was always chosen, no matter where I was stationed, to make the food run. Under the yellow awning of the snack stand, I’d order three large nachos with extra cheese, six raspberry slushies, three cheeseburgers, and five chili dogs. The server would pack everything into a shallow cardboard box, and I’d give him the soft, ripped bills I’d collected. He’d push them back. On my return along the sandy path to the slide, Jacques sometimes passed by, walking slowly, wearing shorts and an old polo shirt, tight under the arms. He’d look up and nod, appearing to see only me, not the box.
I wondered how he could notice so little. I guessed he was preoccupied. He’d hoped we’d have six hundred people a day, and we hadn’t yet. He was always chatting up the customers and making lists of needed supplies, and every day at noon he drove to a different neighboring town to distribute brochures. He kept a few in the pockets of his shorts, and sometimes he’d absent-mindedly shove them farther in, because the tips stuck out. He’d had them printed himself, and on the front was a picture of Amy Goldman. I could understand why. She was the most glamorous, if not the most beautiful, girl in school. Within a week of the park’s opening, she was dating Dave Z., the assistant manager and second-oldest employee of the park. He was going back to college in the fall, and she had another year of high school, so by necessity it was a turbulent and passionate affair, one that touched us all. Dave Z. had blond hair and a deadly smile full of teeth. He never spoke to us except to tell us to do something, and then he called us kids. It seemed fitting and tragic that Amy Goldman should be his. She was a blond goddess—five feet eight with strong legs, a waist like a man’s neck, and breasts as big as they could possibly be without being too big. Her posture was as straight as if she were walking at sea. Her skin was bruised apricot, her nose hooked, and her eyes green. Her smile could make any of us agree to perform the dingiest tasks—spraying down the concrete floors of the bathrooms, for example, or cleaning up a shit someone had taken on the men’s-room floor. At the waterslide, she always wore a red bikini, and when she leaned forward to blow her whistle or tell a child to move away from the bottom of the slide there was an ever so slight bulge of flesh beneath her breasts.

She and Dave Z. did it in the waterslide office on the black vinyl chair. They did it in the showers on a cloudy afternoon. They did it in Jacques Michaud’s office, on his desk, when Jacques Michaud wasn’t there.
Jacques Michaud was oblivious. He walked around the sandy paths of the park with his head down, looking for pieces of glass. When he looked up, he seemed to be staring at a lone house—the local millionaire’s—on the pine-covered mountain opposite.
Occasionally, Amy and I worked together at the top of the slide. Because I couldn’t work the lift, I spent a lot of time up there—in a high, sunny, sandy clearing, surrounded by white pines and hemlocks and scraggly junipers—showing the people who emerged from the path in the woods how to use their sleds. One afternoon, it was slow, and Amy and I were left sitting in the sun by ourselves. She was wearing her bathing suit to tan.
I asked her what the virus was that had kept her out of school for a year. She said the doctors had had about five different explanations and that none of them had made sense, that they’d tested her for everything, even syphilis. Sometimes her arm had been numb, or her leg, off and on, for a night or a day; and she’d felt tired. One doctor had told her that it was growing pains. Another had said that she was depressed. She laughed and said that it didn’t matter now, because she was fine.
She took a carrot stick out of a Baggie and offered me one.
“It made me realize that I should study more,” she said. “Once I get to college, I’m going to study all the time.”
She tucked her hair behind her ears and smiled. Her cheeks were round when she smiled, and she suddenly seemed very young. I smiled, too, for no reason, and a bunch of kids came out of the woods with their sleds, laughing and shouting, then stood by the slide for five minutes arguing over who was faster. They made us count down for them so that they could race, in sets of two. After they left, it was quiet. Two dark-blue dragonflies sloped through the clearing. I stared at the red berries on the junipers, the shiny green leaves of the checkerberries below—and then I asked her when Jacques had taken the picture for the brochure. She said a few days before the park opened. I asked her if he’d paid her to do it. She shrugged and said that he’d offered, but she’d said no. She didn’t see why he should. “It wasn’t a big thing,” she said.
“Did he take it himself?” I asked.
She stared at me. “Of course he took it himself. He’s not a millionaire.” She frowned a bit. “He was very sweet,” she said. “It wasn’t weird.”
I nodded. Then she asked me if I had a boyfriend. I shook my head.
“Well, you’re not missing anything,” she said. “It’s a pain in the ass.”
I nodded.
She leaned back and closed her eyes.
By late June, we didn’t have six hundred people a day. We didn’t have five hundred. For three days it rained, and when the sun came back the chairlift malfunctioned and for two days Jacques sold half-price tickets.
My father tallied the gross income from three hundred customers a day on the back of our electric bill, subtracting estimated employee incomes and making various other columns under an all-caps heading, “overhead,” and concluded that Jacques couldn’t be making a profit.
But I thought he was. He had an air of contentment. He spent every morning checking the mechanics of the slide, and he was especially careful about the sleds. He made the maintenance guys check every sled every day—Were the runners straight? Did the brakes work?—which seemed excessive, since each rider had to check the brakes before heading down, and, besides, you didn’t need brakes. A ride without brakes was a wild ride. We’d all done it, and we all had slide burn as a result. It was a strange wound. Only the first few layers of skin, whatever portion had skimmed the slide—usually the knees or the backs of the arms or thighs—were affected, and the burns didn’t bleed; they oozed pink fluid. They could be as large as a hand or as small as a dime, and they hurt, but only until the E.M.T. in the emergency shack put the iodine on. Then they stung for an instant and pulsed for a few days. Soon they faded to a slippery shine, a pale shade of lilac, and they seemed to travel, so that months later you’d be looking for one, to show someone, and it would be somewhere else on your arm, somewhere different from where it had been. Or maybe you’d just remembered it wrong.
Jacques caught me pushing one of mine with a thumb one day when I was working at the bottom of the slide. The day was slow, and everything smelled like heat: the slide, my skin, the dirt that slid along the ground in the breeze. Jacques grabbed my arm, glanced at the burn, and said that it was pretty good. Then he stood next to me and looked around the park. A group of maintenance guys were shuffling by on their way to the sled-repair shack, where they got high between jobs. Jacques watched them go. His feet were spread wide in the dirt and he crossed his arms over his damp shirt. Then he asked me which one of them I had a crush on.
I looked at them. They were all gaunt, except for one, who had dark hair, a paunch, and a soft, dopey look. I shrugged.
“I know,” he said. “I know.”
I watched him walk off toward the waterslide. When he got there, he waved to the people by the pool, of which there were only two, because Amy Goldman and Dave Z. weren’t present. Jacques stopped in front of the closed office door. The mat was over the window. He stood there, looking at the mat, for about ten seconds. Then he turned around. He glanced at the chubby, sunburned lifeguard who’d stood up from his stool out of nervousness. “Wrong office,” he said. He turned when he was halfway down the ramp. “If you see Dave Z.,” he said, “tell him to stop by and see me.”
Dave Z. wouldn’t tell anyone what Jacques said that day. But after that he made small talk with the customers, cleaned his nails when he thought no one was looking, and said “Please” and “Thank you” when he told us to do something.
On the last day of June, we had a hundred and thirty-two guests. Jacques stopped me as I was delivering a box of cheeseburgers to the waterslide. His face was red from heat, and the fabric under his arms was yellow. He gestured to the people waiting to ride the lift.
“You see this?”
I nodded.
His hand dismissed the line. “You’ll wish for this in July,” he said. Then he tugged his baseball cap down, put his hands in his pockets, and trudged toward the lodge.

But when the Fourth came it was so humid that the air seemed tinged by the colors of people’s clothes. Dewdrops formed on the slide, and every half hour two of us had to ride down pushing towels in front of our sleds with our feet to dry it off. We never closed unless we felt drops or saw lightning—so we were open, but no one came. That night the fireworks above the lake were blurry, and mosquitoes made a faint sound, like the echo of a tuning fork.
It wasn’t just us. The economy was strong, but our town was dead. The swarm of tourists that had arrived in past years hadn’t materialized. The boardwalk at Bear Beach was quiet. The lake was a vast blue. Lone motorboats buzzed by empty beaches. Our local news reported that the people who’d come to our town in the past—mostly from [REDACTED]—weren’t coming now because they had more money and could go to Europe.
“I could have told him,” my father said. “The alpine slide is just not a great idea. I’m not sure why he thought he could do what no one else could.”
Jacques announced a tightening of the belt. He spoke about the difference between the behavior he’d seen and the behavior he wanted to see. He said that he thought we could work a little harder. He said this with perfect equanimity, and soon afterward Amy Goldman and Dave Z. quarrelled. He was going back to college in a month. He was thinking about the future. He wanted to date other people. She gave him an ultimatum. Out of all or nothing, he chose nothing. Now when he spoke to her it was the same way he spoke to everyone else, to tell her to hose out the rest rooms. Their awkwardness would have affected us, but we were busy working hard, which was difficult, since it was quiet and there was little to do.
In mid-July, we each met with Jacques Michaud in his office to see if we’d get a raise. When I went in he was sitting behind his desk, a dinged-up metal one that had been in the basement office for at least ten years. He was smoking a cigar.
“I don’t need a raise,” I said. I told him that I was worried about the park. I explained it stupidly, in detail. I was so nervous that I was stuttering. He grinned.
“We’re doing O.K.,” he said. “We’re doing all right. Don’t worry about the park.” Then he said something strange. He said that I was the best worker he had. He said that I had the nicest smile. He said that I made customers feel happy they’d come. “Everyone should treat customers like you treat them,” he said. “You think I haven’t seen you, but I have. You work hard.”
On my way out, he stopped me. “Come by after work and have a drink with us sometime,” he said. “Stay and talk.”
I wanted to. But from then on the gatherings were cancelled, because the next day, a day when we were actually busy, a woman came down the slide with her face burned off. It was a beautiful morning, and an alabaster light had clapped down over the entire park. Mica gleamed on the sandy paths, and the upturned orange flowers were white at their tips. I was stationed at the bottom of the slide. I’d been telling people to hurry up and get off so that the people behind them could come down. The woman’s sled was moving slowly. She was leaning forward, but she had no momentum and the sled just stopped fifty feet up the hill. I yelled at her to keep going, and then two sleds came down fast behind her and bumped her rear and her sled inched forward a bit. She looked up. Her cheeks, nose, and forehead were the red of semiprecious gems. She didn’t move—she sat in her sled and stared ahead. A line of kids waited morosely behind her while I climbed up the hill. I helped her up and pulled her sled off the track. The woman walked with me quietly. She had short curly brown hair thinning at the crown, and was stout. She was maybe thirty-five or forty. I asked her what had happened. She said that halfway down the mountain she’d been thrown from her sled. She thought she’d hit something. I nodded, though I couldn’t think what she might have hit. Her face was oozing the tiniest pricks of blood, as if from a cheese grater, and it made me nervous, so I took her hand. “Don’t worry,” I said. “It usually disappears.” But when we reached the E.M.T. shack the E.M.T. took one look and called an ambulance.
Jacques held a meeting. Most likely, he said, the accident had been caused by a rock in the track. This was an unforeseeable and bizarre circumstance. He was doing everything in his power to help the woman, he said. She was in the best hospital. She was comfortable. In a day, she’d be able to go back to her job. There was no problem. However, to prevent future bizarre events we would now wipe the track down twice in the morning, instead of once, and twice again in the afternoon.
Jacques said all this, but he didn’t sound sure of it. He looked as though he hadn’t slept.
He cleared his throat. The potential complication, he said, was a lawsuit. But he had visited the woman in the hospital, he had promised to pay for the surgery she’d need once her face healed, and she had said that she wouldn’t sue. And he believed her. Did we know why?
Someone suggested that it was his charm.
“Come on,” Jacques said. “I’m not that charming. Look at my face. See this face?” He gestured. His face was sweaty and red. “It’s an ugly face,” he said.
Someone said, “It’s not like she was a movie star.”
The guy who’d said it was a tall, sarcastic redhead who’d once, as a joke, asked me when I was going to go out with him. I’d treasured the question even though he’d walked off before I could answer. Now Jacques stared at him. The guy stared back. “I don’t care,” Jacques said. “And I don’t want to hear anyone say that again.”
“It’s no one’s fault,” someone said. “It was an act of God.”
Jacques spat on the floor. “It wasn’t an act of God.”
“Why not?”
He stared at us incredulously. “Because it was a rock. In the track.”
No one said anything else.
He sighed. Then he put on his baseball cap. “This woman works at Kmart,” he said. “She lives in a trailer, she doesn’t have a washer and dryer, and she’s not going to sue because she’s from [REDACTED]. She’s a local.” He wiped his forehead. “Locals don’t sue,” he said. “It’s those bastards from [REDACTED] that sue.”
Two nights later, the woman was on TV. Except for holes for her eyes and mouth, her face was a swath of white cloth. She was sitting on a brown couch with her hands in her lap. The deflated folds of her stomach slumped over her jeans. She told the interviewer that her life would never be the same. The interviewer asked her if she was planning to sue. At first, she didn’t answer. She just sniffed a lot. Then she said, “What do you think?” She said some things about how her children would look at her, then she started bawling and they cut the tape.

My father shook his head. He said that it was a shame. He said that he’d always been impressed with Jacques’s initiative, he’d always liked the park, and it was a shame that a woman would destroy a good business with a lawsuit.
As soon as both of my parents were asleep that night, I climbed out my window. I wanted to warn Jacques Michaud. The woman was suing, and I thought that if he knew about it he could do something, like pay her off. I felt sure that he’d want to do that. I put on sneakers, a turquoise-blue tank top that I thought I looked pretty in, and shorts for maneuverability. I swung from my window onto the sunroof, crawled down its steep shingles, and dropped ten feet onto grass. Then I walked in the heavy dark over the pass. There were a few houses along the way, the houses of old people, but their lights had long since gone off. The moon was nearly full, and the tops of the trees swayed blackly in the tar-blue sky. First warped pavement, then oiled dirt rose up under my feet. I stumbled every few minutes. As the road narrowed and became a path, mosquitoes whined by my ear and pines left pitch on my arms. My heart was beating fast. In my head, I was already there. The whole basement was lit. Music was playing and people were laughing and drinking, looking lovely, all while forming a plan to save the park. When I arrived, they would welcome me and I would come up with the solution, and, while they would have been attracted to me before, now they would love me. By the time I headed down the hill, tripping down the ghostly white slide, I had forgotten that I had no solution. Below, in the clearing, the lodge looked dark. There were only two cars in the lot. Little black things were swooping through the inky sky above the chalets.
When I tried the door, it was locked. I knocked. I could see a faint light through the keyhole. I knocked again. I called Jacques’s name. The black bushes swayed in the breeze by the basement windows. I walked along the perimeter until I reached the one with the light. I squatted down to peer through. In the room, Jacques’s room, were two people on a mattress. They were wrapped around each other in a million ways. The man’s hair was white, his body dark and thick. The woman’s mouth opened in an expression of sorrow, her eyes narrowed, her hands grasped his hair, and she kissed him. It was Amy Goldman. Her blond hair was a gold light that filled the foot of space between her head and the pillow. I felt as if an army were marching through my heart, singing a terrible and joyous song. Jacques placed his hand behind her head and whispered something into her ear. I walked home.
When I reported to work the next morning, no one was there.
My parents made gestures at pity, and my older sister offered to get me a job at the motel where she worked as a chambermaid.
The next day, Jacques was on the front page of the local newspaper. Jacques Michaud, park operator, had skipped town, the article said, owing thousands in electric bills and evading the pending lawsuit of one Charlotte Blanc. In fact, he was not Jacques Michaud. He was Mike Vost, from [REDACTED], where he was wanted for tax fraud and for operating a bar without a license. As a side note, he had been running the park without insurance. The last person to have seen him was Harry, who owned Harry’s Garage in town, and who’d bought his Mark VII Jaguar for four thousand dollars, at two thousand under book. The park was closed until further notice.
For two days, I moped around the house. I refused to take the motel job. On the third day, my mother said she wanted me outside, so I put on sneakers and walked over the pass. I walked down the slide. I could see the black figure eights from when they’d greased it last. The Cannonball was dry, the huts of the craft village closed, and the lot, when I reached it, was empty. I tried the door of the lodge. It was open. Inside, nothing had changed. The slope signs were still on the walls. The kitchen hummed. In the freezer, rows of beef patties were crusted with ice. In the fridge, the vats of Jell-O were growing hard. I walked out and around the back. A car was parked there, with its trunk open. I was peering into the trunk when Jacques came out of the lodge. He was grinning. In the trunk, I could see a suitcase and a lot of loose, junky-looking clothes. He hugged me. He squeezed me tight. I didn’t want him to let go. He let go. He pushed me away and crossed his arms over his chest.
“I’m not really here,” he said.
I nodded.
“I had a few things to pick up.”
I nodded.
He cleared his throat. “Look,” he said. He stared intently at me. “I offered that woman five thousand dollars. It would have paid for her operation. I offered.”
I evaluated this. I said, “Are you in love with Amy Goldman?”
He gestured to the car. “This is my new car,” he said. “Like it?” It was tiny, a red hatchback, rusted all over. “It’s kind of small,” he said, “but I fit in it.”
“It’s all right,” I said.
“Come here,” he said. I stayed where I was. “The whole world is in love with Amy Goldman,” he said. Then he said that he wasn’t in love with her, but that he liked her a lot and was sure she’d do well in college. I asked him how his wife had died. I felt suddenly very bold and skilled at conversation. He looked surprised, then sad. I thought he was going to tell me to fuck off. But instead he slumped. After a minute, he said that he’d screwed up the marriage and that she lived in [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and was married to a tax attorney. Then he shrugged. “Come here,” he said. “Give me another hug.”
I did. I thought he might take me with him. I was ready to get into the car.
But he held me at arm’s length.
“You’re too quiet,” he said. “The world won’t come to you. You can wait as long as you want. It won’t come to you. You can wait as long as you want. And then it will be gone.” 

