MOTHER’S SON
By Tessa Hadley

Someone told Christine that Alan Armstrong was going to get married again: the new girl was apparently half his age. Christine didn’t think she cared. She rarely spoke to Alan these days; there was no need for them to consult each other over arrangements for their son, now that Thomas was grown up and made his own arrangements. In fact, after the person told her the news, at a dinner party, Christine forgot it almost at once amid the noisy laughter and conversation, and remembered it again only the following afternoon, when she was sitting at home, writing.
She was making notes for a lecture on women novelists and modernism; books by Rhys and Woolf and Bowen were piled all around her, some of them open face down on the table, some of them bristling with torn bits of paper as bookmarks. When she suddenly remembered the news about Alan, she lifted her mind from its entanglement in the [REDACTED] and Ireland of the twenties and stared around in surprise at her real living room in [REDACTED]: tall and white and spacious, with thriving houseplants and, filling the wall at one end, a floor-to-ceiling arched window. The rooms of the flat, where Christine lived alone, were all small—bedroom, bathroom, kitchen—apart from this big one, the centerpiece. Here she worked at a long cherrywood table; when she entertained, she pushed all her books and papers to one end and laid places at the other. It was March. Outside the window a bank of dark slate-gray cloud had been piled up by the wind against a lakelike area of silvery-lemon sky, smooth and translucent; the alterations in the light flowed fast, like changing expressions, across the stone housefronts opposite.
Christine’s flat was on the second floor; the house was one in a row of houses, all with the same phenomenal window and cold north light, built as artists’ studios in the eighteen-nineties. Some had been renovated and cost the earth, like hers; others were still dilapidated, bohemian, mysterious, the windows draped with rags of patchwork and lace curtains or satin bedspreads. Inside the room, the weather and the light were always intimately present; there were long white curtains at the window, but she didn’t close them very often. Instead of shutting the drama out, they suggested too eloquently immense presences on the other side. It had been difficult to choose paintings for the walls; in the end Christine had hung a couple of prints of Mondrian drawings. Nothing else had seemed quite still enough.
Just as she remembered about Alan, her doorbell rang. She padded in her stocking feet to the intercom.
“Mum? It’s Thomas.”
She made them both coffee and knew that her hands—measuring out the grounds, taking down the mugs—were hasty. Not trembling; that would be too silly for someone as competently independent as she was. But hasty at least in her pleasure at his visit, her eagerness to get back to where her son, her only child, was sprawled waiting for her in the low-slung white armchair in front of the window. She put milk and sugar on the tray; she was glad she had bought a packet of expensive chocolate biscuits. She found an ashtray: no one else was allowed to smoke in her flat. Thomas always for some reason chose that armchair, and then leaned his head back against the headrest so that the ridiculous length of him (he was six feet four) stretched out horizontally, almost as if he were lying flat; he would cross his ankles and squint frowningly at his shoes.
Today he was wearing his disintegrating old trainers, not the brogues he’d bought for work; his unironed khaki shirt was half in and half out of his trousers. Christine, who hated uniforms, was almost ashamed at how handsome she found him in his obligatory work suit and tie, but she also loved him restored to his crumpled, worn-out old clothes, youth and beauty glowing steadily through them. Thomas was odd-looking, with a crooked nose and a big loose mouth, but she knew she wasn’t the only one who found him beautiful. His tawny hair, pushed behind his ears, was curling at the shoulders, because he hadn’t bothered to get it cut; his skin flared sensitively where the raw planes of his face had only recently overgrown their childish softness. From under his heavy lids, the green eyes flecked with hazel sent a lazy appealing glance, like Alan’s. If she thought of Alan at all these days (she hadn’t seen him more than five or six times in the past twenty years), it was only when Thomas’s likeness to him took her by surprise.
“So I hear your father’s getting married again.”
“Who told you?” There was a flicker of solicitousness in his expression, in case she minded.
“Someone who knows Laura. Poor Laura.”
Laura had been Alan’s first wife, the one he was married to all through his affair with Christine, those long years ago. Laura had always made Thomas welcome in her home, even after Alan strayed a second time, and then a third, and then stayed away permanently. Thomas was close to his half brothers and sisters, and managed gracefully a whole complex of loyalties.
“Oh, I think Laura’s O.K.,” Thomas said. “I think she’s pretty indifferent these days to what Dad’s up to.”
This wasn’t what the person at the dinner party had told Christine.
“I hear the girl he’s marrying is young enough to be his daughter.”
Thomas couldn’t help his grin: spreading, conspiratorial. He was easily entertained. “You know what he’s like.”
“Have you met her?”
“She’s O.K. I reckon she knows what she’s getting into. Put it this way—I don’t think it was her intellectual qualities he fell for. I thought that you might be at college today,” he added. “I only came here on the off-chance.”
“Thursdays I usually work at home. Why aren’t you in the office?”
“I phoned and told them I was ill. I haven’t pulled a sickie for ages. I’ve got a lot of stuff going around in my head and I wanted some time out to really think about it. And I thought I might stop by to have a bit of a chat about something that’s cropped up.”
Christine was touched: he rarely came to her to talk about his problems. In fact, there had been almost no problems. He was an affable, sociable boy whose directness was of the easy and not the exacting kind.
Thomas heaved himself upright in the chair, so that his knees were jackknifed up in front of his face; he stirred two spoons of sugar into his coffee and ate chocolate biscuits.
“Is it about your dad and this wedding?”
“God, no. That honestly isn’t a big deal. I’m glad for him.”
“Work?”
He made a face. “And other stuff.”
Thomas had finished at Oxford the year before and had been working as an assistant to a Labour M.P., a woman, no one very special. All he did was photocopy and file and send standard answers to constituents’ letters, but the idea was that this could lead to bigger and better things, some kind of political career. It was only an idea, being tested. Thomas didn’t know whether a political career was what he really wanted. Christine thought he might be too finely constituted, too conscientious for it. On the other hand, she was proud of his realism, and that he was thinking unsentimentally about ways to get power and change things.

“I’ve got myself in a bit of a mess,” Thomas said. “With [REDACTED].”
“Oh?”
He fished his tobacco and rolling papers out of a pocket and used the flat tops of his knees as a table.
“I seem to have got involved with somebody else.”
“Oh, Thomas.”
He told her about a girl he had met at work. He said that he hadn’t liked her at first—he’d thought she was too full of herself. But then they’d had to work on some assignment together and he’d got to know her a lot better. He could talk to her like he’d never talked to anyone else. She was very bright. She wasn’t good-looking in the way that [REDACTED] was good-looking.
“She’s quite big,” he said. “Not fat. Curvy. With this sort of messy black hair. Long.”
Thomas’s own hair was hanging down across his face as he rolled his cigarette, so Christine couldn’t see his expression. She could hear, though, his voice thick with an excitement that she recognized as belonging to the first phase of infatuation, when even speaking about your lover, saying ordinary things about him or her, is a form of desire.
“The worst thing is,” he said, shaking his hair back and looking frankly at her. “Well, not the worst thing. But they both have the same name. Not quite the same. She’s called Annie.”
Christine couldn’t help a puff of laughter.
“I know,” he said. “Shite, isn’t it?” He laughed with her. “The two Anns.”
“Have you told [REDACTED]?”
He shook his head. “I thought at first it was just, you know, nothing. Not worth upsetting her about.”
“But it’s something?”
He shrugged and opened his hands in a gesture of defenselessness, squinting in the smoke from the roll-up that wagged in his mouth. How was he to know? Nothing like this had ever happened to him before.
Christine felt protective of [REDACTED], although she had sometimes thought her too sweet and dull for Thomas. How clearly she could imagine this new girl: less pretty, overweight, clever, treacherous. These were all the things that she herself had been; she was on her guard at once, as if against a rival.
“She’s different,” he said. “She’s funny—she makes me laugh. She doesn’t take everything too seriously.”
“And how do you feel about deceiving [REDACTED]?”
He gulped his coffee. She saw him flooded with shame then, not able to trust himself to speak: an unpracticed liar.
“These things happen,” she soothed. “We can’t pretend they don’t. Even if we were good, if we were perfectly and completely chaste, we can’t control what happens in our imagination. So being good might only be another kind of lie.”
When Christine had begun her affair with Alan, there had been a possibility of his leaving his wife and family. For a while, in fact, he had left, and they had lived together. Thomas was conceived during that time. It had not worked out, they had fought horribly, and Alan had been sick with missing his children. In the end, he had taken himself home. Such storms, such storms there had been in Christine’s life then—with Alan, and with others, afterward. When she longed for her youth, those storms, and not the happy times, were what she missed. The excitement of upheaval, a universe open with possibility, the phone calls that changed everything, the conspiratorial consultations with girlfriends, the feverish packing for surprise trips, escaping out of the last thing or rushing to embrace the next. Perhaps Thomas remembered some of those adventures, too: late-night train journeys when he had sat beside her with big sleepless eyes, sucking at his pacifier, fingering the precious corner of his blanket, his little red suitcase packed with books and toys.
Later, once he was established at school, she had settled into a steadier routine for his sake. But perhaps now, when he had found himself infatuated and intoxicated and behaving badly, at some level of consciousness he’d recognized it as her terrain and come to her because he thought she would know what he should do next. Perhaps his coming to her with his own crisis was a kind of forgiveness, for those upheavals.
“What about work?” she said.
Thomas looked at her vaguely. Work seemed, of course, a mere straw, in relation to the great conflagration of his passionate life.
“You said there were work issues as well that you were worried about.”
“Only the old question. I mean, here I am stuffing envelopes for an M.P. who voted for the war in 49726171. Should I stay inside the tent pissing out? Perhaps it would be more dignified to get out and do some pissing in.”
“Dignified pissing.”
“But we’ve been over all that so many times.”
“Only now it’s complicated because she’s there at work? Annie.”
“It would solve everything if I just took off and went to live by myself in [REDACTED] or somewhere. Budapest.”
“Leave both of them, you mean?” Christine said. “Woman trouble.” She sighed, making a joke of it.
She was suddenly quite sure that he would, in fact, move abroad for a while, even though he didn’t yet know it himself and it had popped into his conversation only as a joke possibility. After much confabulation and self-interrogation and any number of painful scenes with his two girls, this was what he would do.
“I’d miss you if you moved to [REDACTED],” she said.
“Get a sabbatical. Come out and stay.”
She loved having him near her in [REDACTED]. But as soon as she had imagined [REDACTED] she knew that it was what she wanted for him: something more than the slick game of opportunity and advancement, a broader and deeper initiation into old sophisticated Europe, into a grownup life with complications.
“I have to go,” Thomas said.
He had looked at his watch three or four times in the last fifteen minutes.
“You’re meeting Annie?”
“No,” he lied.
Though he had made his confession to Christine, she wasn’t even in her thoughts to follow him to wherever he was meeting his big, dark, clever girl. She was only his mother, after all. It might be [REDACTED]’s night for Pilates or whatever it was she did. The lovers might have the whole evening ahead of them, after Annie had finished work, to sit in a hidden corner in a pub somewhere, crushing out cigarettes half smoked, going over and over the same broken bits of logic, pressing knees against knees under the table, getting excitedly drunker. Or to go back to her place. All that stuff.
By the time Thomas left, the sky outside Christine’s window had changed again: the bank of gray-black cloud had broken up and swallowed the lemon lake; now tousled scraps of cloud were tumbling untidily in a brooding light. Christine had another hour to work before she finished for the day and showered and changed; she was meeting a friend for a film—a Bergman screening at the British Film Institute—and a late supper. She picked up her copy of “Good Morning, Midnight.” Her name was on the flyleaf: Christine Logan, Girton College, 1971. She was certain that she had held this same copy in her hands the morning of the day that Thomas was born, in 1980—not his birthday but the day before, since he wasn’t actually born until half past midnight. She had been working on her thesis then, typing up a new chapter to show her supervisor, checking every quotation carefully against her text, when she felt the first pain.

The first pain—the first sign she’d had that Thomas was coming, two weeks before his time—had been like a sharp tiny bell struck as a signal; feeling it had been more like hearing something, a very precise high note, from deep inside her swollen abdomen, which was pressed with some difficulty into the space between her chair and the little rickety desk she worked at. None of the other things that the midwives at the hospital had warned her to expect had happened—the show of bloody mucus or the waters breaking—only this little bell of pain, so small it was more pleasurable than unpleasant, zinging away from time to time inside her. She knew that she was supposed to delay going into the hospital for as long as she could, so she continued typing, her mind seeming to move at a pitch of high, free clarity between the words of the novel and her own extraordinary circumstance. All this went on in the sitting room of the little cottage she rented from Jesus College in those days, in the Kite in [REDACTED]. The cottage was gone now; it had been pulled down to make way for a new development.
Once, while she waited, she had got up from the desk and stared at her face in a tarnished old junk-shop mirror she kept propped up on the mantelpiece for the sake of its frame. She thought that only fifty years before, at the time when the Rhys novel was set, she might have stared at herself like this on the brink of the unknown ordeal and been justified in wondering whether she would survive it. In the novel, Sasha’s baby died. Christine was not afraid, exactly, but she could not imagine what lay in wait for her on the far side of the hours to come. When she was at the hospital, for her antenatal appointments, she had sometimes passed new mothers walking out to a waiting car or a taxi, followed by nurses carrying their babies bundled in white shawls. She didn’t have friends with babies; she didn’t know what it would mean, to be responsible for a white-wrapped bundle of her own.
She had picked up the telephone once or twice to call Alan but cut herself off before she even finished dialling. Although the plan had always been for him to be there with her at the birth of their child, for the first time the idea of his large presence bothered her: he was a big tall man with a booming voice and a curling salt-and-pepper beard, a historian, a Marxist. I can manage this by myself, she had thought that morning, timing the little bells of pain, which began to ring louder and stronger. It was as if she had intuited with the first pang of Thomas’s arrival, and quite rightly, that her delighted possession of her son would push apart whatever mechanism it was that had bound her to his father for those years of her youth.
Christine’s thesis was on certain women writers of the early twentieth century. She had argued that in their novels and stories they had broken with the conventions deep-buried in the foundations of the fiction tradition: that all good stories end in marriage, and that the essential drive in plot is courtship, bringing men and women together. Katherine Mansfield’s femmes seules and Woolf’s solitaries represented a break that was at least as revolutionary, surely, as Lawrence’s and Joyce’s iconoclasm. In the late seventies, the automatic gesture of obeisance to feminism had not yet been internalized by academics, and an amused hostility was still the norm. Alan wouldn’t read Christine’s work then: he said once that he took no interest in the nuances of bourgeois ladies’ hypersensibility. She had tolerated this attitude, at least at first; she had even been attracted by it, as if in his contemptuous maleness he were a huge handsome bear whose ferocity she had to take on, and tame, and teach.
When Thomas was four or five years old, he had asked her once if he was going to die. She wasn’t sure where this exchange had taken place—on a beach, perhaps, although not on a summer day. She associated it vaguely with a windy walk across pale pebbles that were awkward underfoot, along the sea’s rim of crisp-dried detritus: seaweed, plastic netting, bird bones. Perhaps it was on one of their trips to the Norfolk coast with Alan when he and she were still seeing each other.
She must have been carrying Thomas. She remembered his weight slipping on her hip.
“It’s all right,” Christine said. “Don’t worry about dying. By the time you grow up they’ll probably have invented some medicine so you won’t have to.”
She remembered Alan stopping abruptly. Perhaps she put Thomas down then and he went to dabble in the sea rubbish.
“I can’t believe you just said that.”
He was laughing, but she thought with certainty at that moment: he hates me. The conviction reverberated like a blow against armor; she tasted blood and she wanted to fight.
“What’s wrong with saying it? I used to think that when I was a little girl.”
“But it isn’t true.”
“Of course it’s not true. It’s something reassuring to keep you going until you’re old enough. You know, like Heaven.”
“If any adult had ever lied to me about anything so important, I’d never have forgiven them.”
She was shocked at herself for a moment: she wondered if he was right. Then, recovering, she mocked him.
“But that’s just what you’re like, isn’t it? You love to go around not forgiving people for things. How austere and rigorous it must make you feel. What a little prig of a child you must have been.”
He opened his mouth to answer, closed it, and turned to stride away from her down the beach. She hurried raggedly after him, not finished, snatching Thomas up from whatever he was interested in: threading washed-up ringpulls on his fingers or poking a dead gull with a stick. In her memory a wind came whipping up, tearing out her words.
“So what would you have told him, then? If you’re so truthful.”
He wanted to keep his mouth shut against her but he couldn’t resist giving his opinion, beautifully expressed. There had been a time when she would have hung on these words of his devotedly. “I’d tell him that without death life would be formless. That change is the life force.”
Christine burst out with a loud snort of laughter. “Well, try that, then! Just try it. What d’you think about that, Thomas? Daddy says you have to die, but not to worry. It will give your life a nicer shape.”
Thomas gave a rather stagy mew of despair, as if in fact he’d lost interest in the subject, and he snuggled his head reproachfully against Christine’s lapel. Alan thought Christine encouraged him to be precocious. He walked away from them now, faster than they could follow, his shoulders in his black greatcoat bowed against the wind, head down, his hair blowing out behind. Then he turned around and walked backward, facing them, looking at them. Christine couldn’t remember if that argument had actually been the end of things, or if they’d made a truce later that afternoon or that night, at whatever hotel or rented cottage they were staying in, and gone on patching things up for a while longer.

The morning after Thomas’s visit, Christine was climbing the stairs to her office at the college when someone came running up below her.
“Dr. Logan?”
Christine paused, resting her pile of books and papers on the bannister; someone young with a blond head lifted to look up at her came around the stairwell with a clatter of heels.
“Dr. Logan? Do you mind if I just talk to you for a moment?”
Because she was expecting a student with a query about an essay, there was a disconcerting lapse of seconds before Christine registered that the blond head belonged to [REDACTED], Thomas’s girlfriend, whom she’d known for three years. Of course, there was no reason for [REDACTED], who worked in the wardrobe department of the English National Opera, to be on campus: she had never been there before. Also, she had never called Christine Dr. Logan.
“[REDACTED], darling, how lovely to see you. Whatever are you doing here? How did you find me?”
“I want to talk about Tom.”
In one smooth movement, feeling in her bag for her office keys, Christine decided that her first loyalty was to Thomas’s confidence. She turned on [REDACTED] a look wiped clear of any foreknowledge.
“Is something wrong?”
[REDACTED]’s face was guilelessly open, sorrow stamped on it like a black bootprint. She could not speak until Christine had her door open and they were safely inside. Under the posters and potted plants, Christine put the kettle on—[REDACTED] nodded an indifferent assent—to make peppermint tea. [REDACTED] pressed her palms against her cheeks: her hands were big and pink and sensitive, like her ears, with fingertips reddened from sewing.
“He’s seeing someone else.”
At least Christine wouldn’t pretend not to take her seriously.
“Tell me about it.”
“I mean, I don’t have any proof. Just the usual silly stuff. Times he’s late coming home, things he says he’s doing that don’t sound quite right. Just something—like he’s all the time slightly impatient with me, but then he’s sorry for that and covering it up by being extra nice. I just know the way Tom would be if he were doing it.”
“It could be nothing. I know he’s the nicest boy in the world, but underneath all that he can be moody.”
“I actually thought he might have talked to you. I know he came to see you yesterday. I haven’t spoken to anyone else about this.”
[REDACTED] had always treated Christine with tender respect. Now she scanned her intently with strained-open blue eyes, careless in her desperation. Love, this destroying kind of love, swelled the girl up, gave her a ferocity and an authority that Christine had never seen in her before.

She shook her head sympathetically. “He talked about work.”
“He didn’t say anything about me that struck you?”
“He worries about whether he’s doing the right thing, in his job.”
“Is that all? Are you sure? I have to know what he’s thinking.”
“He’s bored stuffing envelopes for someone he doesn’t believe in.”
[REDACTED] sighed, frowning impatiently at Christine, or through her: she would know what she was looking for when she found it, and it wasn’t this. She wasn’t convinced that Christine was telling the whole truth. A pressured moment swayed in the air between them: [REDACTED] jostling roughly for more, Christine blandly resisting.
“He did mention wanting to travel in Europe. But I don’t know how serious that was.”
“You see. I’ve not heard anything about that. Where in Europe, exactly? When? Who with?”
“He was probably only talking about a holiday. Budapest, perhaps? He didn’t say anything about who with.”
“There. You see?”
“I suppose I simply took it that he meant alone.”
[REDACTED] stood up from the swivel office chair and turned and stared out of the window at nothing, below: a nowhere space between the Humanities block and Social Sciences, furnished with a few benches and young trees. She was tall, the same height as Christine, but with a figure that Christine had never had: high full round breasts, a narrow graspable waist, long slender haunches that suggested some graceful running creature, a gazelle. Between her short cutoff top and the absurdly low waistband of her trousers was a long expanse of flawless goosefleshed golden skin, curving into a sweet round rump. The clothes seemed incidental; [REDACTED]’s young nakedness was in the room between them. With a sharpness almost like longing, Christine was aware of [REDACTED]’s piercings, even now that her back was turned: in her nose and her belly button, gold rings with little ruby-colored beads.
These young women didn’t know what they had. They suffered because they couldn’t have Thomas to keep, but they had the struggle over him, the game of pursuit and being pursued, and the sometime possession of him in the flesh. For as long as the thought lasted, that snatched possession felt to Christine like the only thing worth living for: a possibility of joy that was no longer available to the mothers of these children.
[REDACTED] turned from the window. Her face was blotched an ugly red with tears.
“What would you do?”
“Well, I’d ask him,” Christine said at once. “Don’t you think that he’ll tell you the truth?”
“Yes,” [REDACTED] said bleakly. “I expect he will.”
At home Christine prepared an omelette for her supper. She washed lettuce hearts and vine tomatoes; she sliced cucumber and made a vinaigrette. She mashed parsley into a lump of butter with lemon juice, and sautéed a little tinned tuna in a pan with finely chopped shallots. When all this was ready she broke the eggs into a bowl, to beat them. The second egg had gone bad. It felt strange to the touch, the shell weak and scabbed, but even as she registered this it was too late—she had cracked the egg against the side of the bowl and a foul greenish liquid poured out between her fingers, the thin texture of water, not albumen. A stink of putrefaction thrust wildly, rudely, into the kitchen.
She didn’t know what to do; she pressed her mouth and nose against her sleeve, not pulling the shell apart any farther, not wanting to see inside. The mess was too awful, too violently offensive, to pour down the drain; it would surely come back at her, and perhaps at her neighbors, for hours afterward. She found an empty peanut-butter jar with a lid, saved for recycling, tipped the whole lot into that, and screwed the lid on, only half allowing herself to look at it. Then she ran downstairs out of her flat to the bins outside, where she buried the jar deep among the rubbish bags.
Upstairs she opened all the windows, even though it was raining, ran water for long minutes down the sink. She bleached the egg bowl and the dishcloth she had used to wipe up the few drops of egg that had spattered on the counter; she washed her hands in the bathroom over and over. Still, every time she put her fingers to her nose she was haunted by the smell. The thought of the rest of her supper nauseated her; she tipped the salad and the tuna into the bin. She knew she was being irrational; she ought to phone a friend and make a joke out of her small disaster, and perhaps go out for a drink and something to eat. Instead she abandoned herself to sulking, lying on her side on the sofa, her hands clasped between her knees. The idea came to her out of nowhere that there would be a last time that she brought anyone home to make love in her bed. It was not yet, it might not be for years, but it would come, even though she might not recognize it until long afterward.
How could Christine envy Thomas’s two girls? Who could want to be one of the two foolish Anns, desperate for him? Or to be Alan, with his beard shaven and his silvery hair clipped close to his skull, hoping to start out on the adventure of passion all over again? How much happier she was, how much less time and energy it took to be Thomas’s mother: a relationship founded on one fixed and unalterable truth. Outside her spectacular arched window the wind threw rain in long ragged gusts across the housefronts and tore at the estate agents’ signs, setting them flapping in crazy ecstasy. Christine told herself that she was glad she was on this side of the glass, but she lay still on her sofa for a long time, and after a while she turned her back on the view. 

