THE SHORE
By Richard Ford

My client for this morning’s 61 Surf Road showing is a welding contractor down from Parsippany, [REDACTED], Mr. Clare Suddruth, with whom I’ve already done the toilsome but crucial real-estate spadework over the past months, which means that I’ve driven him around the Sea-Brite-Ortley Beach-Seaside Heights-Lavallette area on what I think of as a lay-of-the-land tour, during which the client gets to see everything for sale in his stated price range, endures no pressure from me, begins to think I’m his friend (since I’m squandering all these hours and gallons of gasoline with nothing in writing), comes in time to gab about his life—his failures, treacheries, and joys—lets me buy him a dozen lunches, and realizes that we’re both pretty much cut out of the same coarse fustian and share many core values (the economy, [REDACTED], the need to buy 556e6974656420537461746573n even though the Japs build a better product, the millennium non-event, [REDACTED]’s troubled youth, how much we’d hate to be young today), though we probably don’t agree about the current Election 2000 impasse in [REDACTED], which has the country at a standstill while the Republicans figure out how to steal it back. But, especially, we do see eye to eye about what constitutes a good house, and how most buyers are better off setting aside their original price targets in favor of stretching their pocketbooks, getting beyond the next dollar threshold (where the houses they really want are as plentiful as hoe handles), and doing a little belt-tightening while the economy’s ebb and flow keeps their boat afloat, on course, and steaming ahead.
If this seems like cynical, insincere bamboozlement, bait-and-switch tricksterism, or just old-fashioned, leering faithlessness, let me assure you it’s not. All any client ever has to say is “Look-it here, Bascombe, this really isn’t how I see things. I want to stay right inside, not outside, my price window just the way I said I did when I sat down at your desk.” If that’s the story, then I’m ready to sell you what you want—if I have it. All the rest—the considered, heartfelt exchange of views, the finding of common ground, the beginning of true (if ephemeral) comradeship based on time spent in the same automobile front seat or front yard—any of that I’d do with the Terminix guy. All a person has to do is know his mind about things, which isn’t as usual as it seems.
The fact is, I view my role as residential real-estate agent to have a lay therapist’s dimension built right in. And that dimension includes the obligation to leave a client better than I found him or her (there’s plenty in the realty literature to back me up on this). Many citizens set out to buy a house because of an indistinct yearning for which an actual house was never the right solution to begin with, and may be only a quick fix that briefly anchors and stabilizes them but never touches the deeper need, all the while managing to put them in the poorhouse. Most client contacts, in fact, never eventuate in a sale and often, like most human exposures, end after one encounter. Which isn’t to say that the road toward a house—even if no sale is destined—is a road completely without benefit or good issue. A couple of the best friends I’ve made in the real-estate business are people I never sold a house to, and who, by the end of our time together, I didn’t want to sell a house to (though I probably would’ve). One was an African-556e6974656420537461746573n lawyer, Geoff Murphy, who was determined to buy an eye-popping mansion at an eye-popping price, slap in the middle of the (all-white) Seminary section of my former home town of Haddam, [REDACTED]. On Atheneum Place, the richest street. I showed him four houses, bids were submitted on two, accepted on one. Earnest money was rendered, lawyers were called, documents drawn up, inspections completed, mortgages applied for, closing scheduled. But when I picked Geoff up at the August Inn to drive to the act-of-sale meeting, he got in my car clearly distressed. His dark-mahogany, lacquered-looking face had turned a pasty gray from a sleepless night. He was fidgety, he smoked a cigarette right in my car (which he’d never done before), he answered my genial patter in edgy monosyllables, then discovered that he’d forgotten his checkbook, so that we had to go back to the August—where for some reason it was sitting on the edge of the toilet. When we were back in the car, heading to the lawyers, I just said to him, “Look here. What’s bothering you, Geoff? Do you have some reluctance? Because, if you do, I want you to stop right here. I’ll call up Moncrieff and Barnacle and tell ’em the deal’s gone south or we need more time. Whatever. You’ll be back to your room in five minutes. This is not about me, it’s about you. And your money.” “Do you mean that?” Geoff said, his big honey-bear eyes beginning to take in the possibility that I might not be holding his feet to the fire. “I do mean it,” I said.
Geoff and I, over the previous weeks, had talked casually of his life as we plowed around Haddam looking at houses. Born in the Druid Heights section of [REDACTED], to stalwart parents who loved each other and worked multiple jobs so that he could go to Towson, Geoff had become the first college attendee in a family up from the [REDACTED] cotton patch. Penn Law School followed fast. Chicago Business School. A stint in the Coast Guard. A pair of defective marriages. A lengthy bout with John Barleycorn, a diagnosis of early-onset diabetes, his children’s disapproval of a much younger, white third wife, a union that wasn’t working out but maybe had a chance if he could just get the two of them set up in the right circumstances—all this meant that Haddam was a perfect fit. Geoff’s work as a high-priced restructuring litigator was in [REDACTED], forty miles away. (A car and a driver were part of his deal.) His wife, Hollister (whom I’d met only once), was clearly a ball-buster and would be down the road in a heartbeat, if only due to the difference in their ages—fifty-five versus twenty-eight. Geoff needed, I felt, to do some serious tea-leaf reading and brow-furrowing and possibly take a stab at meditation and marriage counselling before he lashed himself to a $3.1-million, gaudy-as-hell, high-Victorian manor house, needing roof and pricey bathroom work, that was once owned by a whiskey baron and former [REDACTED] governor but where Geoff would spend most of his evenings alone, and where the neighbors would take fourteen years to ask him for cocktails, and then only do it once. In other words, he’d turn suicidal there. (Of course, I’d have made my ninety thousand, but what larger good would’ve been done?)
Long story short: Geoff asked me to make the unwelcome call to the sellers’ lawyer. I made the call. I explained. The situation engendered a bit of abuse and minor epithet-swapping. Geoff swallowed hard on half the up-front money. And he and I sang down the day—a cool March sun-streamer with no humidity—by driving over to New Hope, having shad with shad roe and a good New Zealand Gewürztraminer (he paid), and telling each other the rest of the stories of our lives. His actually included an aspiration to climb Mt. Kornaheho, and to do a stint in the Peace Corps in the spirit of “giving back” both to himself and to the world that his good parents selflessly gave him.

Geoff never did buy a house from me, never moved to Haddam, his wife didn’t leave him, his kids reconciled, his parents died happy, he did his Peace Corps stint with his wife, and he now runs a boutique maple-syrup company in [REDACTED] (they sell only the darkest, coarsest kind) and last year was elected selectman.
This is a perfect real-estate transaction, in my view, even though no house changed hands. If there weren’t, now and then, such outside-the-envelope transactions, I’d be the first to say that the whole damn business wouldn’t be worth the time of day.
I turn right off NJ 35, Sea-Brite, and toward the beach just at the closed-for-the-season Custom Condom Shoppe (“We build ’em to your specs”), and motor slowly down a narrow gravel lane of identical white-and-pastel summer “chalets,” of which there must be thirty in this row, modest fronts facing in, with ten parallel lanes arranged, neighborhood-like, to the north and south, each named for a familiar [REDACTED] coastal bird (Sandpiper, Common Tern, etc.—I am driving down Cormorant Court). Here is where a good number of our weekly renters—Memorial Day to Columbus Day—spend their happy family vacations, cheek to cheek with hundreds of other souls opting for the same little vernal joys. At several of these chalets (all empty now), pre-winter fixup is under way. All-Honduran repair crews are up on ladders patching little green hip roofs in almost the same color, or are planing screen doors, or regrouting brick foundations after years of salt air. I own ten of these chalets and manage twenty-five more, and several of the Hondurans recognize my Suburban, and give a wave and a snicker at Don Francisco, which makes me mildly uncomfortable. There have been summer chalets in Sea-Brite since the thirties: five-hundred-square-foot cottages, two tiny bedrooms, one simple bath, beaverboard walls, Pullman kitchen, a propane tank, no yard, no grass, no shrubbery, no a/c, no TV, electric wall heaters, St. Vincent de Paul décor, no parking except in front, no privacy from the neighbors ten feet away, bottom-line plumbing, tinted, iron-rich water, occasional gas and sulfur fumes coming from who knows where. And you can’t keep the happy vacationers out of ’em. A certain dedicated precinct of the 556e6974656420537461746573n soul there is that’ll put up with anything (noise, exotic smells, exotic neighbors, unfriendly pets, high rents—I get eight hundred a week—car traffic, foot traffic, unsound construction, yard seepage, you name it) just to be, and to be able to say, back in Parkersburg and Parma, “It’s a three-minute walk to the beach,” which every unit is, guaranteed.
Another disgruntled precinct—members of our boro population (mostly newcomers)—would love to see these chalets bulldozed, and the ground turned into a passive park or, worst case, an outlet mall. But there’s no way. Complicated, runic, fee-simple restrictive covenants that the boro holds (unique to [REDACTED]) require every postage-stamp householder to agree to sell before the whole acreage can be transferred. Plus, many chalet owners are among Sea-Brite’s oldest year-rounders, who came as children (before summers at the shore became a nightmare), never forgot the fun they had, and couldn’t wait to own a chalet (or six) and start making their retirement nut off another generation’s renters—off the very people they’d once been themselves. (None of these citizens, needless to say, would think to spend two minutes inside any of these sad little domiciles now, which is where I get in the picture.)
These days, I do more than my best to keep things in good order, consistent with costs, including letting the occasional struggling writer in need of quiet space to finish his “Moby-Dick” or some frail soul in retirement from love stay free in return for simple indoor repairs. These people never stay long, owing to the very seclusion they thought they craved. Looked at differently, of course, these chalets would be a perfect place for a homicide.
Clare Suddruth is already standing out front of the fancy beach house that he thinks he might like to buy. Surf Road is a pure, sandy beach road that starts at the ocean end of Cormorant Court and runs south a quarter mile. If the road extended a mile, which it never will, due to the Draconian shoreline laws, it would run right into Ocean Beach Road, where I live.
Clare waits, hands in pockets, in the chill oceanside November breeze. He’s dressed in a short, zippered khaki jacket and sturdy khaki trousers that announce his station as a working joe who’s made good in a rough ’n’ tumble world. The house that Clare’s interested in is—in spirit and in residential design concept—not so different from mine and was built during the same development era, the late seventies, before the laws got serious and curtailed beach construction, driving prices into deep space. In my personal view, 61 Surf Road is not a house a man like Clare should ever think of, so of course he is thinking of it—a lesson we Realtors ignore at our peril. No. 61 is a mostly vertical, isosceles-angled, multi-windowed, skylighted, slant-roofed, copper-guttered, graying redwood board-and-batten with older, stained solar panels which has within it not two, not three, but five or six levels, consistent with the builder’s concern for “interior diversity” and cheap spatial mystery. More than it’s right for Clare, it’s perfect for a young sitcom writer with plenty of new scratch, who can “work from home.” Asking is a million-nine.
How the house “presents,” and what the prospective buyer sees, is also typical of the period—two mute, retractable, segmented brown garage doors opening pretty much onto the road, two skimpy windows, and an unlocatable front door, beyond which you go “right up” to a “great” room where the good life purportedly commences. The house actually broadcasts a bland, styleless domiciliary arrogance, which says that this building has no front either because no one’s welcome or else because everything faces the sea, that’s the front, and since it’s not your house why’re you interested anyway? Get over it.
Clare Suddruth is a tall, loose-kneed, good-looking man, bristly-haired, big-handed, a sixty-five-year-old ex-G.I.-reen Viet vet with deeply tanned, square-jawed, creased Clint Eastwood features and the seductive murmurous voice of a late-night jazz d.j. In my view, he would be more comfortable in a big solid Dutch Colonial or a rambling late-Georgian vernacular. “Thornton Wilders,” we call these in our business, and we don’t have any in Sea-Brite. Spring Lake’s your ticket for that dream. But Clare’s recent life saga—which of course I’ve heard plenty about—has led him down new paths in search of new destinations. In that way, he is so much like us all.
Clare is waiting beside my Realty-Wise sign (red block letters on a white field: “Realty” above, hyphen “Wise” below, plus the “Tel”—no “www,” no virtual tours, no talking houses, just like I like it, simple, satisfying, reliable, leading buyers toward a feeling of sanity, finality, and ultimate rightness). He turns and faces the house as I drive up, as if to allow that he’s been waiting but time doesn’t mean much to him. He’s driven down in one of his company’s silver Ford panel trucks, which sits in the driveway, “Only Connect Welding” painted in flowing orange script on the side. His schoolteacher wife, [REDACTED], dreamed it up, Clare says: “Something out of a book, I guess.” But Clare’s no mutton-fisted underachiever who married up. He owns a Silver Star with a gallantry garnish from Nam, retired out a major, went the E-E route at Stevens Tech, in Jersey City. He and [REDACTED] bought a house, had two quick kids. Clare took the upward-tending track with Raytheon but decided that the laddered life was a rat race and took over his dad’s welding business in Troy Hills when the old man retired—with the proviso that he could change the name to something he liked. Clare is what we call a “Senior Boomer,” someone who’s done the course, done it creditably, set aside beaucoup savings, got his kids set up at a safe distance, experienced a conspicuous appreciation in the dollar value of his family home (mortgage paid off), and now wants something a helluva lot nicer before he gets too decrepit to notice it. What these people typically want varies, from a freestanding condo to a weekend home near the water to a “houseboat on the Seine”—a.k.a. something to park at a marina—or else a real, honest-to-God beach house like the one Clare’s now staring up at and about to enter: turn the key, dial up the Jacuzzi. (The owner-sellers, the Doolittles, who’re currently in Boca Grande, put their fingers into the millennial economic breezes earlier this fall and detected a cooling slowdown, and for that reason are ready to shift into municipal bonds and, conceivably, gold.)

Clare’s other characteristic on the buyer’s profile is that three years ago (this, as usual, by his own candid recounting) he fell in love with somebody who wasn’t his wife, who was, in fact, a fresh hire at the welding company—someone named Bitsy or Betsy or Bootsy, I forget. Surprisingly enough, big domestic disruptions followed. The kids chose sides. Several loyal employees actually quit in disgust when “things” came out in the open. Welding damn near ceased. Clare and [REDACTED] were entirely civil (“She was the easy part”). A sad divorce ensued. A marriage to the younger Bitsy, Bootsy, Betsy quickly followed—a life commenced that didn’t feel right from the instant they got to Aruba. One turbulent year passed. The young wife grew restive. (“Just like the goddam Eagles song,” Clare said.) She cut off all her hair, threw her nice new clothes away, decided to go back to school, figured out she wanted to become an archeologist and study Mesoamerican something or other. Somehow she discovered that she was brilliant, got herself admitted to the University of Chicago, and left [REDACTED] with the intention of morphing her and Clare’s odd union into something rare, free-floating, and completely modern.
Only then [REDACTED] discovered that she had multiple sclerosis (she’d moved to her sister’s in Port Jervis), which instantly galvanized Clare into seeing the fog lift, regaining his senses, and divorcing his student wife. (“A big check gets written, but who cares?”) He moved [REDACTED] back down to Parsippany, and began devoting everything and every minute to her and her happiness, convinced that he’d never realized how lucky he was just to know her, and, with time now more precious and fleeting, there was none of it he cared to dick around with. (As unusual as this story seems, believe me—in the real-estate profession—it’s not so.)
Enter, then, Sea-Brite, where [REDACTED] vacationed as a child and always adored it. Nothing now was too good for her. Plus, in Clare’s estimation, our little town was probably a place where the two of them could die before the world fucked it up. I drove him past twenty houses two weeks ago. Some seemed “interesting and possible.” Most didn’t. No. 61, in fact, was the only one that truly caught his fancy, since the inside was already fitted out with a nursing home’s worth of shining disabled apparatus, including (despite all the levels) a mahogany side-stair elevator for when the dark days of disambulation drew near. Clare told me that if he liked it he’d buy it as is and give it to [REDACTED]—who’s currently holding her own, with few symptoms—as a one-year re-wedding present. It makes a pretty story.
"Dry as my Uncle Chester’s bones out here, Frank,” Clare says in his parched but sonorous Clint Eastwood voice, extending a leathery hand. Clare has the odd habit of giving me his left hand to shake. Something about severed tendons from [REDACTED] causing acute pain, etc., etc. It seems like an affectation and always makes me feel strange about which hand to give him back, but it’s over fast. Then Clare produces his steady, eyes-creased smile that conveys impersonal pleasure, crosses his long arms, and turns to look up at 61 Surf Road. I’m just about to say that the worst droughts are the ones where you occasionally get a little rain so that no one really takes them seriously and everyone ends up ignoring the fact that the aquifer’s way down and disaster looms. But Clare’s thinking only about this house (a good sign). The three-page color listing brochure I’m holding is ready to be proffered before we go in.
Down Surf Road (there are only six similar houses), a bearded young man in yellow rubber coveralls is scrubbing down the sides of a white fibreglass fishing boat on a trailer, using an extended hose brush. A dark-blue “Bush-Cheney” sign stands in his little sandy yard. From back up the road I hear the screech of an electric sabre saw whanging through the filaments of a pine board, followed by the satisfying bops of hammers pounding nails in fast succession. These are my Hondurans. The cold seaside air here has both a fishy and a piney sniff to it. None of this, despite the steely, unpredictable, weather-prone November sky, makes for one bit of bad feeling in me. As I look up to see a squad of pigeons wheeling above and, far beyond, a jet contrail high, high, high, heading out to sea and Europe, I feel well placed here at my post, doing the thing I apparently do best, staying grounded, my duties conferring a pleasant, self-actualizing invisibility—the self as anthropologically perfect instrument, like the athlete who is said, if briefly, to “feel it” and become sleekly the task at hand.
“Frank, tell me what this house’ll bring in, in the summer?” Clare asks. His mind is clickety-clicking, merits-demerits. I assume he’s talking about rent and not a quick flip.
“Three thousand a week,” I say.
Clare raises one of his folded arms, furrows his brow, puts his hand to his chin and rests it there. It is the classic gesture of contemplation, familiar to both General MacArthur and Jack Benny, and Clare manages to emanate both their moods at once—grave but also strangely comical. It is clearly Clare’s practiced look of public seriousness. My guess now is that we’ll never see inside No. 61, never get to appreciate all the disabled add-ons. When clients are motivated, they can’t wait to get in the door and start liking everything; whereas standing out in the road, talking about the house as you would if you were going to tear it down, is not a promising sign. Though, of course, I’m often wrong.
“Boy, oh, boy,” Clare says, and shakes his head in dismay over modernity. “Three Gs.”
“Pays your taxes and then some,” I say, a cold breeze waffling my listing brochure and stiffening my digits.
“So who’s moving down to Sea-Brite now, Frank?” More standing, more staring.
“Pretty much it’s a mix, Clare. People driven out of the Hamptons. And there’s some straight-out investment going on. No big springboard sales as yet. Topping wars haven’t got down this far. It’s pretty much a one-dimensional market still. That’ll change, of course, even with rates starting to creep. A five-hundred-thousand-dollar house is already hard to find.” I take a glance at my listing sheet, as if all this crucial data were printed there. I’m guessing that this brand of coded chalk talk will appeal to Clare-the-savvy-businessman, and make him think that I’m not really trying to sell him the Doolittles’ house but am just here to supply reliable, relevant, factual info and to make the world seem less a sinking miasma. Which is not far wrong.
“I guess they’re not making any more oceanfront, are they?”
“If they could, they would, Clare.” And I know plenty who’d love to try; the “interests” who want to “reclaim” Barnegat Bay and turn it into another Miracle Mile or a “racino.” “Fifty per cent of us already live within fifty miles of the ocean. Ocean County’s the [REDACTED] of the East Coast.”

“How’s your business, Frank?” We’re both still standing beside the multi-this, multi-that No. 61, like two men tied to posts, awaiting the orderly arrival of a firing squad.
“Good, Clare. Real estate’s always good by the ocean. Inventory’s my only problem. If I had houses like this every day, I’d be richer than I am.”
Clare, at this instant, lets go a small, barely audible (but audible) fart, the sound like a strangled bird call from offstage. It startles me, and immediately makes me stare at its apparent point of origin, the seat of Clare’s khakis, as if blue smoke might be visible. It’s the ex-marine in Clare that makes such spontaneous emissions completely natural, completely unremarkable (by him), while letting anyone else know how intransigent a man he is and would be—in a love affair, in a business deal, in a divorce, in a war. (Possibly it’s my reference to being rich that’s forced this disparaging gesture from his insides.)
“Tell me this, now, Frank,” Clare says. He’s stuffed both hands back in his khaki pockets. He’s wearing dark-brown-and-beige two-tone suède leisure sneakers of the sort you buy at shoe outlets or off the sale rack at big-box stores, and that look comfortable as all getout, but that I’d never buy because they’re what doozies wear, or else men who don’t care if they look like doozies. The Clint Eastwood look has a bit of doozie in it, I see. Old Clint might even wear a pair himself, so uncaring would he be of the world’s disapproval. “What kind of climate have we got? I mean, for buying a house?”
I hear the workers up Cormorant Court all begin laughing now, and hammering comes to a halt. “Hom-bre!” I hear a voice say. “Es loco! Flaco y feo!” One needn’t wonder what they’re up to—something involving someone’s chile, no doubt.
“Well, I’d say that’s a mixed picture, too, Clare.” Clare already knows everything I know, but wants to make me think that he takes what we’re doing seriously. I take me seriously. So this is just a waste of my time. Clare came into the picture saying that he was ready to buy a house sight unseen, to maximize the quality of life remaining for his dear-stricken-betrayed-but-timeless love. Only, like many humans, when it gets down to the cold nut-cutting, it’s do-re-mi his heart breaks over. “Money’s cheap down here, Clare,” I say. “The mortgage people have got some interesting product enhancements to shift the weight toward the back end—for a price, of course. Like I said, our inventory’s way off, which tends to firm up values. Most sales go for asking. You can read that technology’s ready to cycle down. Web sites are shutting. The Nasdaq’s off. Rates’ll probably shoot up after Christmas. You want to know if prices are ready to stabilize, and if you’re buying in at the top with no short-term resale potential. But you can’t take your cue from the wind, I guess. We had forty-per-cent price increases in two years. I don’t like to tell clients to go with their hearts, Clare. To be honest, I don’t know much about hearts.”
Clare looks over at me, brown eyes narrowed near to closing—I’ve probably said too much, and may also have strayed over into the too personal, and this sleepy-eyed look is a recognition and a warning. I’ve found, though, that in business a quick veer into the soft tissue of the personal can confuse things in a good way. Clare, after all, has given me a giant earful. (No doubt he does it to everyone.) Now he’s just leery about making an awkward, unwanted “connection” with me. But ditto. I only want his money, for him to have a house, and for us both to feel good about it.
“Can I show you something, Frank?” Clare says. He looks down at his gooberish two-tones, as if they were doing his thinking for him.
“Absolutely.”
“It won’t take a minute.” Clare’s already moving—in a bit of a slinking, pelvis-forward sort of way—along the side of the driveway, toward the back of the Doolittles’ beach house, between it and the next-door neighbors’, a house that’s boarded up for the winter and has a dead look about it: basement windows stuffed with pink Styrofoam insulation, sparse rhododendrons covered with miniature wooden A-frames against the coming winter gales, the basement door fitted with plyboard screwed into the frame.
“I took a walk around here while I was waiting,” Clare is saying as he goes, but in a softer, more intimate voice, as if he didn’t want the wrong people hearing this. I’m following, my listing materials smushed in my windbreaker pocket. The Doolittles’ house is, I see, in need of upkeep. The side basement door is weathered and grayed, the veneer cracking at the bottom. A scimitar of glass has dropped out of a daylight basement window and shattered on the concrete footing. Something above us is whapping with a metal noise in the area of the soffits—a loose TV cable or a gutter strap is my guess—though when I look up I can’t see anything. The house could definitely do with a new owner and some knowledgeable attention. The Doolittles, who are plastic surgeons, have been spending their discretionary income elsewhere, and may soon have to pay for it.
Clare leads me around to the back of the house, between the windowed, concrete basement wall and the ten-foot, dunelike sand bank that’s covered with dry, sparse-sprouted sea rocket from the summer. The dune is what keeps the living room from having a full ocean view, and probably sandbags the sale. Though I’ve put in the brochure that some “imagination” (i.e., money) dedicated to the living room (i.e., putting it on the third floor) would “open up spectacular vistas.”
“O.K., look at this down here,” Clare says, almost whispering, bending, hands on knees, to designate by his notice where he means me to look. “See that?” he says gravely.
I move in beside Clare, kneel beside his knee on the sand-and-gravel foundation border, and peer right where, closer now, he’s pointing at an outward-curving section of pale-gray concrete, visible beneath the sill and the footing. Here is one of the deeply driven piling piers on which the well-named Doolittles’ house is seated and made fast so that at times of climatological upset it’s not washed or blown or seismically destabilized and propelled straight out to sea like an ark.
“See that?” Clare says, breathing out a captured breath. He gets down on his knees beside me like a scientist and brings his face down to the curved concrete pillar, putting his index finger to the hard surface.
I see nothing unusual. “What is it?” I say. Though can it be anything good?
“These piers are poured far away from here, Frank,” Clare says, conspiratorially. “Sometimes [REDACTED]. Sometimes upstate [REDACTED]. The Binghamton area.” He is employing his index finger to scratch at some transparent sealant that’s been painted on the pier’s exterior but looks just like the regular surface of concrete. “If you pour your forms too early in the spring, or if you pour them when the humidity’s extremely high, well, you know what happens.” Clare looks over at me—we’re very close here—and smiles a closed-mouth gotcha smile.

“What?”
“They crack. They crack right away,” Clare says darkly. I see that he has a pale sliver of a scar right along the border of his Brillo-pad hairline. A vicious war wound, possibly, or something discretionary from his second marriage. “And if your manufacturer is not too scrupulous he doesn’t notice. And if he’s un_scrupulous he notices and has the silicone sealer painted on and sells it to you anyway. And if your home builder or your general contractor isn’t paying attention, or if he’s been paid not to pay attention, or if his foreman happens to be Italian, then these piers get installed without anybody saying anything. And when the work gets inspected, when this kind of defect ought to show up—and it is a serious defect—it might be possible for it not to be noticed, if you get my drift. And then your house gets built, it stands up real well for about fifteen years. But because it’s on the ocean the salt and the moisture work on it. And then, suddenly—though it isn’t sudden, of course—Hurricane Frank blows up, a high tide comes in, the force of the water turns savage. And—boom_—Bob’s your uncle.” Clare turns his head to me, where we’re crouched like spelunkers behind the musty, quicklime-smelling Doolittle house, which is built, I see, on much worse than shifting sand. It’s built on shitty pilings. “These pilings, Frank. I mean . . .” Clare sniffs a sniff of distaste and homeowner pity, while pressing his thin lips together. “I can see cracks, and this is just four to five inches showing. These people have real problems, unless you can find a sucker who’ll buy it sight unseen, or get an inspector who needs a seeing-eye dog.”
I can smell Clare’s breath in these close quarters we’re keeping. It is sweet coffee breath, and makes me realize I’m cold and wishing I were two hundred miles from here.
“It’s a problem, O.K.,” I say. I’m staring at the innocent-looking little curve of pier surface without, frankly, seeing anything amiss. The thought that Clare is full of shit, or that this is nothing more than a softening-up ploy for a lowball offer, naturally occurs to me, as does the idea that since I can’t see the crack I don’t have to bear the responsibility that attaches to it. A few stalwart ants, I notice, are scuttering around the lime-dusty foundation, no doubt taking in the air before the long subterranean winter’s commencement.
“A problem. Definitely,” Clare says. “I was raised in a tract house, Frank. I’ve seen bad workmanship before.” He and I both are straggling to our feet.
“What can you do about a problem like that, Clare?” I’m dusting off my knees with my cold hands, stuffing the listing sheet deeper into my pocket, since it clearly won’t be needed. I experienced a brief moment of panic when Clare revealed the cracked pier, as if this were my house and it was I who was in deep shit. Only now, a little airy-headed from standing up fast, I register pure exhilaration and a thrumming sense of good fortune and well-being that this is not my house, that my man was a board-certified U.Va. architect, not some fly-by-night shade-tree spec builder with a clipboard fat with plan-book blueprints, who was in cahoots with the cement trade, the Teamsters, the building inspectors, and City Hall. In other words, a typical [REDACTED] small businessman. “I’m fine.” These words—in a murmur—somehow escape my lips. “I’m just fine.”
“Oh, there’s things you can do,” Clare is saying. “Expensive things.” He is for some reason looking closely at me, into my eyes, his fingers pinching up a welt of poplin on my jacket sleeve. “You all right, old boy?” I hear this. Also I hear what sound like youthful boy and girl voices beyond the sand-dune bunker beside us. It all seems to merge from a single source, which is the cold wind. “You look a little green, my friend,” Clare’s friendly voice says.
I’m having a “subsequent predictable episode.” The titanium seeds in my prostate are obviously not as close to dormancy as my Mayo urologist, Dr. Psimos—he of the “I’d Rather Be in Sturgis” T-shirt—irresponsibly predicted. This, of course, is information that Clare doesn’t need.
“Stood up too fast,” I say, cheeks gone cold and rubbery, my scalp itchy and crawly, my fingers flickering numbly in the air.
“Chemicals,” Clare says. “No telling what the hell they spray back here. The same thing’s in sarin gas is in D-Con, so I hear.”
“I guess,” I say, woozy. I’m keeping myself upright now.
“Let’s grab some air,” Clare says, and roughly, with his bony left fist, begins hauling me up the dune behind us, our shoes sinking in sand, my recovered balance a bit pitched forward, my neck and back breaking a warm sweat. “Maybe you got vertigo,” Clare says as he guys me up toward the dune top, his long legs doing the work for two. “Men our age get that. It goes away.”
“How old are you?” I say, submissive.
Clare is tugging me forward. “Sixty-five.”
“I’m fifty-six.” I feel ninety-six.
“Good grief.”
“What’s the matter?” Sand’s in my deck shoes and it feels quite good. His doozie sneakers are probably loaded, too.
“I must look a lot younger than I am.”
“I was thinking you did,” I say.
“Who knows how old anybody is anymore, Frank?” We’re now at the top. The steely-blue, flat-surfaced Atlantic is beyond the wide low-tide beach. A smudge of gray-brown crud hangs just at the horizon. In the middle distance, a boatful of day fishermen is anchored, their short poles abristle off both sides. The small breeze seems to blow straight through my ears and brings a shiver that makes me understand that for late November I’m dressed too lightly. Of course, I believed I’d be inside by now. “I look at twenty-five-year-olds and then somebody tells me they’re fifteen,” Clare natters on. “I look at thirty-five-year-olds who look fifty. I give up.”
“Me, too,” I say, feeling slightly replenished, my heart still throbbing from our ascent into the plein air.
 
Twenty yards in front of us and taking no notice of our appearance like foreign legionnaires topping the rise, a group of teens, eight or nine of them, are involved in a spirited volleyball session. Their single white orb rises slowly upon the whitish sky, while one side shouts, “Mine!” “Set, seeeet-it!” “Bridget-Bridget-Bridget! Yours! Yours! Aw-riiight!” They’re boys and girls of a certain immature teen age: the boys tall and swimmer-lanky and blond; the girls beautiful, tanned, rugged, just back from Hawaii and Ibiza. All are in shorts, sweaters, and sweatshirts, and barefoot. These are the local kids who grew up on the shore but went away to Choate and Milton—who left little Sea-Brite behind as lowly townie-ville but are back now, if briefly, among their old friends (the privileged few), spending the Thanksgiving holidays with vivid dreams of Yale and Dartmouth. Too bad, I think, my kids are not that age again, instead of “grown.” Possibly I could do my part better now. Though possibly not.

“You back in working order?” Clare says. He’s observing the volleyballers, who pay us no attention. We are the invisibles—like their parents.
“Thanks,” I say. “Sorry.”
“Vertigo,” Clare says again, and gives his large, overly helical ear a good stern grinding with the heel of his hand. He clearly likes being up here on the dune, as anyone would. It’s approximately the view one would get from a “reimagined” floor three of the big-but-compromised Doolittle house behind us. Maybe his mind’ll change now. Maybe cracked piers aren’t so vexatious after all. Things change with new perspective.
“You’re from [REDACTED], you don’t count,” one girl volleyballer says breezily into the breeze.
“Yeah, I count,” a blond boy answers. “I absolutely count. Ro-tate, ro-tate.”
“Could you entertain a quasi-philosophical question, Frank?” Clare Suddruth asks. He has squatted now atop the dune and scooped up a handful of sand, as though assaying it, weighing it, sampling its texture.
“Well,” I say.
“Pertains to real estate. Don’t worry. It’s not about my sex life. Or yours. That’s not philosophical, is it? That’s Greek tragedy.”
“Not always,” I say, alert to an incoming heart-to-heart that I lack the stomach for.
Clare narrows his creased submariner’s eyes at the brown horizon murk and spits down into the sand he’s just released. “Do you imagine, Frank, that anything could happen in this country to make just normal not be possible again?” He continues facing eastward, as though addressing an analyst sitting in a chair behind him. “I actually tend to think that nothing of a catastrophic nature can really happen. Too many checks and balances. We’ve all of us manufactured reality so well. Nothing can really change. You know? Drop a bomb, we bounce back. What hurts us makes us stronger. D’you believe that?” Clare lowers his strong chin, then cranks his intense squinting gaze up at me, wanting an answer in kind. His kind. His kind of stagy seriousness. Semper Fi. Iwo. Guadalcanal. Bataan. The Marianas, stretching out to the pulverized but never-say-die Khe Sanh firebase of ’68. All the things I somehow missed in my rather easy youth.
“I don’t, Clare.”
“No. Of course not. Me either,” Clare says abruptly. “I want to believe it. And that scares the shit right out of me. What hurts me hurts me! And don’t you think they’re not sitting over there in those other countries that hate us licking their chops at what they see us doing over here, fucking around trying to decide which of these dopes to make President? You think that these people here”—a toss of the Clare Suddruth head toward crumbling 61 Surf Road—“have foundation problems? We’ve got foundation problems. It’s not that we can’t see the woods for the trees—we can’t see the woods or the fuckin’ trees.” Clare expels through his manly schnoz a breath so heavy and poignant a Clydesdale might’ve breathed it.
“What does it have to do with real estate?”
“That’s just where I enter the picture, Frank,” Clare says. “It’s the circuit my mind runs on. I want to make [REDACTED]’s last years happy. I think a house on the ocean’s a good thing. Then I start to think about [REDACTED] being a target for some nut with a bomb or whatever. And, of course, I know death’s a pretty simple business. I’ve seen it. I don’t fear it. And I know [REDACTED]’s probably gonna face it before I do. But I go on looking at houses as if a catastrophe—or death—can’t really happen, right up until, like now, I have to concede that it can happen. And then I’m shocked. Really paralyzed.”
“What is it that shocks you, Clare?” I say sympathetically. “You know everything there is to be afraid of. You seem ahead of the game to me.”
Clare just shakes his head in grim wonder. “I’m sitting up in bed, Frank—honest to God—up in Parsippany. [REDACTED]’s asleep beside me. And what I just go cold thinking about is: if something happens, you know, something bad—a bomb—can I ever sell my fucking house? And, if I buy a new one, then what? Will property values mean anything? I mean, where the hell are we then? Where’re we supposed to escape to? It’s not death, Frank. Death’s pretty much a snap.”
“I never thought about that, Clare.” Though as a philosophical question, in my view, it’s a lot like “Why the solar system?” You sure couldn’t make such a worry a contingency in a buy-sell agreement: “Sale contingent on no disaster ever rendering all real property as worthless as tits on a rain barrel.” In realty terms, this kind of worry is way beside the point.
“I guess you wouldn’t think about it,” Clare says. “Why would you? I know perfectly well it all has to do with [REDACTED] being sick, and my other relationship ending, plus my age. I just fear the circumstances of my life going to hell. Boomety-boom.” Clare is still staring out to sea, above the heads of the lithe and perfect and perfectly untroubled young volleyers—a grizzled old Magellan who doesn’t like what he’s at long last discovered. Boomety-boom.
Clare’s problem, of course, isn’t a philosophical problem. It just makes him feel better to think it is. His problem with his circumstances is itself circumstantial, the usual occasion for worry: he’s made some normal human mistakes, suffered some minor setbacks, taken some shots, and he just doesn’t want to fuck up again, or miss an important cue or a warning detail. It’s standard; an all too usual form of buyer’s remorse—only Clare’s experiencing it prior to sale. If he would just take a plunge (always the Realtor’s fondest wish for mankind), banish fear, let loose the reins, think that instead of having suffered error and loss he’s survivedthem and that today is the first day of his new life, then he’d be fine and dandy. In other words, embrace in full the permanent period of life, live not as though he were going to die tomorrow but as though he might live.
But how to explain this to Clare without arousing the suspicion that I’m just another smarmy, eel-slippery, promise-’em-anything yokel, hyperventilating to unload a house that’s crumbling from the ground up? You can’t. I can’t. Dazzled and enervated as I feel out here at the edge of the continent, I know the Doolittles’ house has serious probs, may in fact be heading toward a tear-down situation in a year or two. I’d never sell it to Clare but instead will have to be the reluctant bearer of sombre financial news to the Doolittles down in Boca. Clare will simply have to figure this out for himself. All I can reliably do is show him more houses till he either does or wanders off into the landscape. (I wonder, just now, if Clare’s a Blue State or a Red State in the current debacle. Politics is a threshold we don’t cross in my business, though I’ve noticed that most people who look at houses these days are Republicans.)

Somewhere, as if out of the spheres, I hear what sounds very much like the “Marine Corps Hymn” played on an electric xylophone. “Dum-dee-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dee-dum, dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-doom.” It’s surprisingly loud, even here on the dune top in the cold salt breeze. The volleyball kids stop rotating and setting and spiking, their heads turned toward us, as if they’d registered something weird yet also weirdly consoling—something from home, or further back in the racial fog. What?
Clare goes fumbling with a little black hand-tooled quick-draw holster under his jacket, attached to his belt like a snub-nosed .38. It is his cell phone issuing a call to arms and valor—unmistakable as only his ring in any airport waiting facility or supermarket deli section.
“Clare Suddruth,” he says in an unexpected, abrupt command voice—an urgent message from the higher-ups to the troops in the thick of it down here. His snapped answer is aimed into an impossibly tiny (and idiotic) red Nokia exactly like the ones the prep-school girls have in their Tommy Hilfiger beach bags. “Right,” Clare snaps, putting his other hand to his ear like Rudy Vallee, lowering his chin in regimental attention. He steps off a few yards along the berm. Every single particle of his bearing announces, “O.K., now, this is important.” “Yep, yep, yep.”
For me, though, it is a freeing moment and welcome, unlike most cell-phone interruptions, when the uninvolved bystander feels like a condemned man, waiting on the trapdoor, all trussed, harnessed, eyes clenched, expecting the drop, while the bearded fat man in a top hat permits himself to be momentarily distracted by the starlings swooping over the prison yard in an especially lovely formation. (The worst thing, of course, about hearing others yakkety-yak on their cell phones—and the reason I don’t own one—is the sullying recognition that everybody’s doing, thinking, saying pretty much the same things you are, and none of it’s too interesting.)
This moment, though, strands me all out of context, maroons me to a good rejuvenating sensation that I didn’t expect to be awaiting me, a relief and a tacit pledge that underneath it all—my moment of syncope, my stillborn house-showing, my physical condition, my underlying condition, my overarching condition—beneath it all is still a broad fertile plain I can see across to a white farmhouse and willows and a pond that the sky traffics over, and where the sun is in its soft morning quadrant and there is peace upon the land. Even the prep-school kids seem suddenly excellent, hopeful, and doing exactly what they should be. Two women speed-walkers in woollen long shorts and sweats go herky-jerky businesslike down the strand. I am frankly happy in this lost moment. I wish that Clare could know it, too, since with just a glimpse, permitted by a kind but impersonal life force, many things (if not all) can briefly sit down in these proper, proportionate places, and I (at least) can hear myself breathing to myself, “It’s enough. It’s enough. It’s enough.”
“Yep, yep, yep.” Clare’s still internalizing whatever is to be internalized. Get those fresh troopers up where they can see the back side of that hill and start raining hellfire down on the sorry bastards. And don’t be back to me till that whole area’s secured and you can give me a full report, complete with casualties. Theirs and ours. Got that? Yep, yep. “I’ll be home around one, sweetheart. I’ll fix lunch.” (It is a homelier communiqué than I imagined.)
He punches off his little red Nokia and returns it to its holster without turning around. He is facing north now, up the shore toward Asbury, twenty miles off. His decision to stand away and now stare away gives him the aura of a man composing himself.
“Everything copacetic?” I say, and smile at his back in case he should suddenly turn around and face me. A friendly face is always welcome.
“Yes, sure,” Clare says, and does turn, does see my welcoming mug—a mug that says, “We aren’t looking at a house anymore, we’re just out here together, taking the air.” “It was my wife,” he says, stepping back toward me. The lady power-walkers are receding into the distance now. The volleyballers have formed a claque beside one net post and are laughing. I hear one of their cell phones ringing, a gleeful rilling that says “Yes, yes, yes!” “[REDACTED]—well, you know her name.” Clare glances toward the calm sea and its white filigree of sudsy surf, where terns are diving toward tiny frightened mackerel. The day fishermen’s boat has moved farther south, down the beach. “When I’m gone for very long, it’s as if she thinks I’m not coming back.” Clare laves his big hands together, scouring off some residue of the call. “Of course, I did go away and didn’t come back. So you can’t blame her.”
“Sounds like it’s all different now.”
“Oh, yeah.” Clare runs his scoured hands back through his steely salt-and-pepper hair. He is a handsome man—even if part doozie, part escape artist, part fearful shrinker from the world’s clattering woes. We have much in common, though I’m not as handsome. “What were we gassing about?” he says. The call has erased most of that. A good sign. “I was bending your ear about something.” He smiles at me and seems abashed yet happy not to remember. A glimpse of my wide plain with the house, pond, willows, etc., has perhaps briefly been his.
“We were talking about foundations, Clare.”
“I thought we were talking about fears and commitments.” Clare casts a wistful eye at No. 61—its weathered soffits, its dubious solar panels, its sagging gutter-works.
“Same difference,” I say.
“Well,” Clare says, “we can let it go by, I guess.”
“O.K.”
“Somebody else’ll want this place.”
“Somebody will,” I say. “You can bet on that. There aren’t many things you can bet on, but on that you can.”
“Good deal,” Clare says.
We find other things to talk about, other plans, as I walk him back out to his Only Connect truck. Whoever said that a character should possess the incalculability of life wasn’t far wrong. In fact, if you ask me, he knew his stuff better than most. 

