THE FRACTIOUS SOUTH
By Gina Ochsner

As a young boy, I learned many things from many wise people. It was Baba Lyuba, for instance, who told me that if a bird shits on you, that is considered extremely good luck. Before my father left for [REDACTED], he taught me that in the north a falling star was lucky, but in the south—in, say, Stavropol or Nazran—it meant that a bomber had dropped for attack. From Grandpa Ilya I learned that water is life and the quiet fish swimming in it a connection between this world and the next. And, finally, from my mother, who worked in those days as a censor and translator for the Main Administration for Safeguarding State Secrets in the Press, I learned that because we were Jews we were invisible. This, she added, was a common enough ailment for Jews anywhere, east or west. The only people more invisible than Russian Jews, she said, were Gypsies, and Baba Lyuba explained that the Gypsies had learned it from us.
We lived in a town just north of Rostov-on-Don, that great gateway city of the Russian south. The summers were hot. The clouds, heat-frazzled, gave up on rain and drifted empty across the wide sky. There was never enough water to persuade the dust to settle. Standing roadside, I learned to read, by the shape of the dust clouds and how long they hovered, what kind of vehicle was approaching and how fast. A bicycle shot out a thin ribbon of dirt behind its back tire. Smaller cars, like a Niva or a Lada, churned up a loose swath of dirt. Volgas, the sedans popular with the K.G.B., raised the road in a boxlike pattern, each shifting of the gears producing a tighter cloud in its wake. But the kamaz and gaz-66 transport carriers plowed the whole road up into the air, lifting the leaves of the weary aspens and willows and coating them in distinct layers of ashen-colored earth. The gaz-66s were almost always stuffed with the bodies of dead Russian soldiers. When they passed, we all stood a little way back from the road, out of respect and in recognition of the fact that we did not want anything that had touched a carrier—not even its dust—to touch us. An impossibility on our street, where Mother and Baba swept the dust from one end of the flat to the other, which was how people cleaned in summertime.
I was seven when the trouble in [REDACTED] heated up. Father left town in a kamaz headed for the Rostov military airfields. Everybody watched the convoy roll by, the rumbling of the engines rattling the fine china in our cupboards.
Mother worked extra hours at the bureau in Rostov, rewriting events so that the human heartache she encountered daily would sound as if it were happening to imaginary people living in far-off places. She hated that job. Truth, she confided to me one day, was a dark stain, and the words of any language were like leaves: one more way to hide ourselves from one another. The truth, she said, was that people born under the Soviet Red Star were doomed to move the earth with their feet, carrying their homeland from place to place. Not so long ago, she reminded me, the Chechens had been moved from the Caucasus to [REDACTED] and the Tatars from the Crimea and the Germans from the Volga. All these people rewriting the roads with the soles of their feet—no wonder everyone looked so tired. “Yes,” Mother said, as she laid her cool hand on my forehead, “roads are unlucky.” And I knew she was right. After all, a road had taken my father from us.
Baba Lyuba told us that part of being invisible is being quiet, so we didn’t complain. Except Grandpa Ilya, who grumbled that all the dust and the noise had completely unnerved the fish.
“They’re terrified,” he explained one day at the river’s edge. I was having my first fishing lesson. I leaned over the water. Down below I could see the fish, dark as stones, eating the shadows of the trees along the bank.
“Yes, fish have feelings, just like you and me. And now they’re afraid, even when they pretend they’re not.” Grandpa wiped his hands on the front of his fishing T-shirt, given to him by a friend from the West: “Smart People Aren’t Worth a Shirt,” it read, but he had covered the “r” in “shirt” with a piece of white electrical tape. Grandpa could get away with such things: he had fought the Germans in the Great Patriotic War and he had a piece of shrapnel in his hip to prove it. He was also famous for having once sneaked a carp he’d poached past the police station by dressing it in baby clothes and pushing it in a little squeaky-wheeled pram.
That summer, with a handful of worms, Grandpa and I lured the gudgeon that we liked to use for bait into biting. They were good-looking, with their olive flanks paling to yellow and silver, and then deepening again to a dark green—the kind of fish that made me think God must have had a good time when he painted the first of them. But, for all their good looks, God did not give them brains. It took only a few minutes to catch enough of them to start our bid for the bigger fish: pike, chub, barbel, carp, and maybe the mythic speckled trout, a fish we talked about only in low whispers, since no one, not even the veterans who fished the river every day, had ever actually hooked one.
We fished every day that summer and the following summer and the summer after that while we awaited news of my father. And each day Grandpa Ilya taught me something new. It was Grandpa Ilya who showed me that the hook is the backbone to the bait and the connection to the fish. That with a little piece of metal we can be made one. He didn’t always know which vowels to write in some words, but that was all right, because he could solve difficult math problems in his head. And he had a finely calibrated sense of proportion that came from his many years of hardship and military service. In spite of all that had been done to him and all that he had done, he did not hate people; he merely hated the things they did. It was Grandpa who told me that nothing in life could be so bad that fishing wouldn’t make it better, or, if not better, then bearable, or, if not that, then at least it was a way to pass the time while you waited for your luck to change.
Over the course of the next ten years, the River Don rose and fell, rose and fell, like a body breathing. In winter, the waters shrank. Then, if we used balls of pork lard—which was unkosher but necessary to hook the more discriminating fish—we might catch enough perch and carp to feed us for several weeks. In summer, the river swelled and the pike flopped about in the reeds. Whatever the season, we began with the same rituals—me asking Grandpa if we were allowed to fish at whichever spot he’d chosen and Grandpa wiggling a finger in his ear: “What? What is that funny noise I hear? Such questions!” And as long as the fish had a sporting chance—that is, as long as they were in water—any manner or method of catching them was O.K. We fished, and over the course of that decade of watching the water move away from us and reshape its banks with each season we learned to stop waiting for my father.
ADVERTISEMENT
As time passed, Grandpa got older and a little deafer. Mother learned a few more languages and took a job with Red Star, the military newspaper. Baba wore filmy nightgowns over her housedress, and I married the first girl who didn’t say no. Me, with my eyes set a little too close together for anyone’s comfort, and Voya, with her furry eyebrows and jagged teeth—we were a perfect match. We even had passion. I for the fish and she for American cosmetics, but when she was ovulating, bless her, she also had some passion for me.
We just had time for a quick wedding before I was called up into the Russian Army. There was trouble in the fractious south, once again in Chechnya, and so off went all the young men of our town: Oleg from two floors down; Good Nikolai, the kid I used to pick on, and Bad Nikolai, the kid who picked on me; and Boris, a troubled-genius type who had mapped out entire lexicons and systems of thought and had chess champion written all over him. As our sweethearts and mothers waved from the windows, we stirred up a small city of dust in our convoy headed to Mozdok, where we would operate tanks and learn the basics of bomb detonation.
When I returned home two years later, nothing was right. Grandpa Ilya spent his days sitting on a metal bench in our apartment building’s dusty courtyard. Instead of rigging a fishing rod, he sat tying flies that he had no intention of using. “The fish can’t even swim straight anymore,” he explained.
“It’s on account of those biological chemicals they’re using in the south,” Vitaly Vitaliev, the self-appointed superintendent of our building, who was famous for his mouth full of gold-capped teeth, piped up. “Ever seen a fish swim sideways?”
As if that weren’t bad enough, I started hearing things. Ever since Oleg from two floors down stepped on a mine and got himself blown to bits, everywhere I went and in everything I did I heard the sound of ticking. When I rode my bike to the river, I heard tick tick tick. Pedalling over the verge of dry grass that followed the road: tick tick tick. Climbing the steps to the apartment: tick tick tick. It haunted me, this sound.
“Idiot,” Voya said, on non-babymaking days.
“Stupid!” Tinke, our upstairs neighbor, tapped in code with her wrench on the water pipes. “You are hearing the sprockets on your bike.” But I knew what I heard. On this morning, as I stood on the wet banks of the river, it was Voya, resplendent with anger, her hair freshly dyed and dripping fiery orange down her neck.
“Misha!” she shouted. Her voice scattered the swifts in the lime trees, and I imagined that the fish that had been waiting patiently also scattered. Which was O.K. I couldn’t even hold the rod steady anymore and I hadn’t actually seen a fish in weeks: not the chubs with the metallic-blue scales, or the whiskered barbels, or even the greedy pike that liked to navigate the reeds for overfed and unwary ducks.
Voya perched on the muddy bank and tried hard to look kulturny in her new shoes—very chic, very pointed, with mean-spirited stiletto heels. “If you can get up so early, then why can’t you get a job?” It was a perfectly reasonable question.
I shrugged, a hapless signature move, which always drove Voya nuts. I knew that she wanted evidence of some ambition on my part.
“Well, what do you do with yourself all day long?” Voya had her hands on her hips.
“Fish,” I said. Before I even had time to duck, one of those prestigious shoes sliced through the air and clipped me on the back of the head. And then off she limped, squish squish, through the mud. Every other step was murder for some unlucky worm, but a worm, unlike a man, can be broken in half and still survive.
Since I’d come back and devoted myself to a life of contemplative fishing, choosing forgetfulness as a path to healing, all Voya and I could do was fight. And drink. And fight some more. Most nights, her anger burned its way through the courtyard, up the urine-scented stairs, and along the corridors of the massive concrete apartment structure. Pockmarks in the walls spoke of her many attempts to impale me with her shoes. It was a woman’s way, Vitaly sometimes tried to console me, to express love as hatred and vice versa.
“She wouldn’t keep trying to kill you if she didn’t really care,” Vitaly said one afternoon, his gold-plated incisors gleaming. He handed me a bottle of Crobar. “Now drink—down to the bottom!” he commanded. I took the bottle and handed over two of the three perch I’d brought back from the river—his portion for being so well informed about so many things, like where and to whom to sell my fish, a deficit food item, and how much to ask per kilo.
It was early evening by the time we’d killed his bottle. Since they don’t manufacture Crobar bottles with resealable caps, it was our moral obligation not to leave the job unfinished, Vitaly once told me. I was inclined to believe him; having been in the secret police years earlier, he knew things that the rest of us didn’t know or didn’t want to know. But Mother had informed me long ago that Vitaly had Gypsy blood, and was thus given to fanciful pranks and stories. He had a bad habit, she said, of grasping at knowledge that outstripped his comprehension. I knew my mother was right about the Gypsy part. When Vitaly heard about Oleg being blown to bits, the first thing he did was go into the courtyard. There he pressed stones in the form of a cross until they were level with the mud, the idea being that the earth always takes back its own. Vitaly did other Gypsy things, such as cooking porcupines in clay. And when he couldn’t find porcupines he cooked rats, which, frankly, are just porcupines that have lost their spines and thus their sense of self-worth. Vitaly liked to drink, and preferred to view life from the bottom of a vodka bottle—that was the best thing about him—and most days I even liked him, told myself that he was like a father or an older, more calculating version of me. Thinking this way helped me overlook his completely threadbare moral development.
As evening tipped into night, the moon roiled about as if cast on a fishing line. From his waistband, Vitaly withdrew a second bottle of vodka. Though I already had an infant hangover threatening to cut its teeth, I kept drinking. It is, after all, considered good luck to cure a hangover by pouring more booze on top of it.
“Ach, you bitch!” Vitaly shouted. Though he held the bottle at arm’s length, the gesture signalled affection. “Speaking of dogs . . .” He pointed to an old edition of Izvestiya, scattered at the bottom of the stairs. “Those Chechens—who do they think they are? Savages—they deserve what’s coming to them!”
ADVERTISEMENT
I winced and wagged my head from side to side, like a weary metronome. I’d seen a lot of bad things happen to people I knew. Oleg, of course, irretrievable. And Boris, the troubled genius, whose dark hair had, in the course of a single maneuver, turned chalk white. If his Army-issue assault weapon had spilled innocent blood, then why not the guilty, he asked. And the next day, with a coat hanger rigged to the trigger, he shot himself. Good Nikolai and Bad Nikolai: both of them dead. Their bodies torched, their eyes open to see it. Yes, bad things happen. And nobody knows it better than those of us who come home.
“You should go back and kick their asses, boy-o.” Vitaly gave me the bottle. “You should do it for Mother Russia.”
“It’s something to think about,” I said.
Vitaly smiled and a gold tooth winked. He rubbed his hand on my head, the Gypsy reminder to stop thinking.
By the time we finished the bottle, light had seeped over the hills, turning the clouds the texture of curdled milk. The hammers inside my head had quieted to a bearable rhythm, but I could hear Baba Lyuba and Tinke upstairs arguing, again. I trudged past Vitaly and up to the third-story landing. Mother was scurrying around, darting into the open flat, then rushing out again. First looking for her coat. Then for her hat.
“What is going on?” Grandpa Ilya’s voice followed her.
“Nothing important,” Mother said, rushing back in for her purse.
“What, then?” came Baba Lyuba’s voice.
On the landing, Mother brushed a kiss on each of my cheeks, then tipped her chin toward Baba. “Yeltsin is having trouble with his heart again,” she said, and disappeared down the stairs. Before the outer door had even fallen back into the locks, Baba was wailing. I thought she’d gone barking mad. Who could weep for a man like that? But then, as the bent rims of worry turned around and around, I realized that Mother had been speaking in military euphemisms again. Yeltsin’s heart trouble meant another major operation in Chechnya, and she had to make it sound good before the next day’s papers hit the stands.
"Mi-sha!” Voya’s alto voice broke in half, summoning in an instant the hangover hammers. Then she appeared on the landing. She glared at me and brushed a brittle strand of hair behind an ear. She’d dyed it again, this time the color of cadmium rage. “I can’t live like this forever,” she said.
“How else should we live?” I asked, ducking into the apartment.
“Better. We should live better, and we should have things.”
“What things?”
“Things. An apartment to ourselves.” Voya waved her thermometer at me. “Babies.”
Such impossible desires, especially since we had all the typical post-Soviet problems—that is, we were in possession of some brains and absolutely no clout or money. In the same boat were my mother and Grandpa Ilya and Baba Lyuba. Which was why we all lived together in the first place, our sleeping areas cordoned off with a complicated network of towels hung as curtains from clotheslines.
“Don’t you want things?” The bottom dropped out of Voya’s voice.
Baba Lyuba looked at me, clicked her tongue in disappointment, and turned back to the TV, winking and blinking there on the reinforced cardboard box it came in.
On the screen was an old broadcast of Yeltsin addressing a crowd. Even though he had a way of thrusting his neck out in order to hide his double chin and make his jaw appear stronger, he didn’t look good on camera. There were big problems in the south, Yeltsin said, but all I heard was the old Soviet slogan: “With an iron hand, we will drive humanity to happiness!” He raised a fist, and the people, hearing strong words that suggested purpose, words we all like to hear sometimes, clapped and shouted. In the corner of the screen, a clock kept time, the second hand ticking loudly, as if to remind us all to keep breathing.
“Do you hear that?” I turned to Baba Lyuba.
“What?” She sniffed the air.
“What?” Grandpa Ilya shouted.
With her wrench, Tinke from upstairs tapped out in code: What? What?
“That ticking!” I cried.
Responding to some ancient cue, Baba Lyuba jumped up and ran around the room opening and shutting doors, peering into the cuffs of sleeves, both her own and those of others. Old habits die hard, and Baba was, if anything, a creature of habit. But she could assemble a Kalashnikov in less than fifteen seconds, so if she wanted to wear flimsy lingerie and shout, I say, do what makes the most noise and be happy.
Then, from behind our layer of privacy towels, came Voya’s voice, strangely modulated to something like tenderness: “Mi-sha! Come here!”
I stepped behind the curtain. Voya slid her nylons to her shins and I studied her thighs and the sliver of light that shone between them. She waved the thermometer at me. Ah. A baby-making moment.
Good taste and good sense impose certain limits, but never in my life have I been accused of possessing either. And it’s hard to say no to Voya. Off came the pants. Then, in labored silence, Voya and I set about doing what a man and a woman must do. Baba coughed and dragged the kettle over the burner, doing everything she could to convince herself that she wasn’t hearing what she knew she was hearing, while Tinke kept clanking on the pipes. Add to this the noise of Vitaly playing sentimental songs on a paper and comb, exploring the metaphysical riffs and eddies of life as clarified by the fumes of his rapidly emptying vodka bottle: “Which proves that creation began on a Tuesday, which is all the more reason to drink on a Monday.” Vitaly’s wisdom drifted up through our open window. Through all of this, I could sense more than see Grandpa Ilya in his chair looking at his Western fly-tying manual, recalling, I suppose, all the fish that had got away.
The baby-making rendezvous over, Voya rolled out from under me and took her temperature again. A golden moment, because it is nearly impossible to utter demeaning observations with a thermometer in your mouth. But then out came the thermometer, and it was all systems go.
“This business in Chechnya. Vitaly says it’ll be over before it even really starts.”
“I don’t know.” I wagged my head, remembering what I’d seen before. “The Chechens can knock out tanks as well as anybody else,” I said.
“It’s a job. It’s good money.”
“Maybe.” I shrugged. “I don’t know.”
“You don’t know much, do you?” Voya said, more amazed now than angry.
I thought of Boris and dropped my head to my hands. “Sometimes it’s better to be a happy idiot,” I groaned.
“Well, good news. You’re halfway there.” Voya pulled on her nylons. “I suppose you’ll go fishing now.”
Mention an itch, and a scratch is sure to follow. I grabbed my net and rod and flew down the stairs.
Vitaly met me at the bottom. He had another issue of Izvestiya in his hand, the paper rolled up tight. “Boy-o.” He draped an arm over my shoulder. “I like you. You’re not too bright, but you try hard. That’s why I’m telling you something I haven’t told any of the other guys.”
ADVERTISEMENT
“What?”
Vitaly laid a finger alongside his nose. “Things.”
“What things?” At the open window above us, Baba’s head appeared between pots sprouting little yellow stars, the flowers of future tomatoes.
“Things,” Vitaly said, steering me closer to the building. “For instance, if you were to go back and participate in a military operation, you’d receive five million rubles.”
“Five million!” I heard Baba yell up to Tinke.
“If the operation was successful, three million more. For the knocking out of a tank or an armored vehicle, an additional three million. The destruction of a self-propelled artillery gun would get five million.” Vitaly stopped to catch his breath.
From our window, I could hear Voya on the phone with a girlfriend: “Does it have a real oven—the kind you bake things in?” Her voice cartwheeled up the octaves. Yes, she wanted things.
Then came Mother through the courtyard, back already from the bureau, in her hands the latest edition of Red Star.
“What happens if I die?” I whispered.
Vitaly could hardly contain himself. “Then your family would be paid a hundred and thirty million rubles. Think of it! Brilliant and so simple. Only a real idiot could screw this up.”
“But I was just a foot soldier.”
“Pah.” Vitaly waved a hand at a mosquito. “I can fix it so that you were and still are élite Kantemirov 4th Tank Division.”
But Mother, who knew more about it than Vitaly ever could, shook her head sadly. “Don’t listen to him,” she said, so quietly that it could have been another mosquito buzzing by my ear.
Vitaly stuffed his hands in his pockets and considered the possibilities. “Yes, I can fix it. For half your pay, I’ll fix it. It’s so simple, really.”
I looked at my rod and net. I thought of the logic of water. How it is necessary sometimes for one creature to trade its life for another. The worm for the chop, the caddis for the trout.
“Do it for God!” Vitaly said. “Or do it for your family,” he added gently. Then he lifted his gaze to Grandpa Ilya, wedged next to Baba and peering down at us from the tomato pots. “Do it for all those Chechen fish. In the mountain lakes they have fish the size of big dogs.”
Down the street, a convoy of gaz-66s moaned. The spell broken, Mother moved past me, her head down.
Yes, the Chechen trout are legendary. In the high lakes of the Sunzha region lives the Pacha-chaar, the kingfish. Mother told me that when Tsar Alexander II first ate this trout, he developed such a taste for it that he immediately had them railed in to [REDACTED] in cars equipped with oversize aquariums. Ever since, anglers have been relentless in their pursuit of the Pacha-chaar, that trout with the golden scales and the regal mouth. This fish knows the number of days a man has left to live, and if you hook it, it must tell you your fate.
I counted the steps up to the landing. Mother was waiting outside our flat. She kept her head down and the newspaper clutched to her chest. But, over the top of her glasses, she fixed her eyes on mine. “He’s dangerous, you know. His ideas are like his vodka—cheap and intoxicating,” she said, pushing open the door.
Later, at the cardboard table, Mother spread out an old edition of Red Star while Baba and Voya poured tea and put out white bread and a small bowl of dark cherries. We all ate and drank in silence. Grandpa Ilya finished tying a dark cahill fly, the ginger hackles fluttering seductively with every movement of the air. Voya checked her reflection in the belly of the silver coffeepot, so tarnished that it had a purple sheen the color of a pike’s flanks. Her eyebrows had thinned a bit, and I knew that, despite her rage, she really was worried.
Baba spilled some tea on the newspaper and leaned to examine the damage. The red star had smeared, the ink staining the table underneath. “Oh, if only you-know-who were still alive,” she said, touching the wet star. “Yes, things would be better. He was a true hero.”
Mother jumped from her chair, her hand raised, as if she were going to strike Baba. “How can you say that after what he did to the Jews!”
Baba levelled her gaze at Mother. “Stalin won the war. And there was bread in the shops. Every day,” Baba said, poking at the bread on her plate. “And I don’t mean this stuff here.”
Grandpa pinched the cahill fly between his thumb and forefinger and held it up. “Listen to us!” He spoke to the fly. “If God is home and goodness the land we are searching for, then we are in a far country,” he said, dropping the fly.
“Yes,” Baba said, hanging her head, “but it is still our country.”
Mother carried her teacup to the sink, the cup trembling in the saucer. Voya popped the last cherry into her mouth, hooked an arm through mine, and led me to our sanctuary behind the towels.

“Your grandmother!” Voya rolled the cherry from one side of her mouth to the other.
I shook my head. “The thing to remember about Baba is that she honestly thinks the dead come back to see who’s wearing their shoes and to reclaim beloved handbags.”
“Still, she has a point. War is good business. Especially if you win.” The stone of the cherry knocked between Voya’s teeth.
“Yes, but the Chechens—they are people just like us. If they want their own patch of dirt, some rocks, why not let them have it?”
“So stay, if you want. I don’t care!” Voya said at last, spitting out the stone. It flew through the air and stuck to my shirt. “Just do something besides fish!”
I reached for her shoulder, and she sank to the mattress and began to weep, her sobbing grand and troubled and mysterious all at the same time. I held Voya—or, rather, she allowed me to hold her—and eventually she wiped her nose on my shirt.
“Oh, Misha, you are like a child,” she said, her chin wobbling. “I can’t be angry with a child.” Voya stuck her thermometer into her mouth, and I counted the seconds. Then she yanked the instrument out, frowning. “No,” she waved the thermometer in the air. “And not right here, either.” Then she pulled the bedsheet up over her head and fell fast asleep.
They say that we dream at night of what we want by day but don’t have the words for. In the daytime, we are poor, our words flimsy, but nighttime makes us rich, the images of the big and small things we desire swirling about as if they were ours already. As I slept, pictures trotted across my eyelids, and I dreamed of Voya besieged by an army of toasters. I saw Baba Lyuba and fourth-story Tinke, reconciled at last, floating downriver in a washtub, Baba steering with her mop. For Grandpa Ilya, I dreamed of a complicated three-tiered tackle box complete with chenille, peacock burls, long ring-necked rooster hurls, lead wire, and the lemon-colored side feathers of a duck—everything he would need to make flies that would fool even the most discerning of fish. For Mother, who wanted to live only on the bread of faithful speech, I dreamed of newspapers with blank pages.
ADVERTISEMENT
For myself, I dreamed of the silent wrasse with a bolt of iridescent silver scales and mandarin-orange flames running along its flanks. I dreamed of weed beds full of pike and reeds of perch, the black-tailed dace and the mythic taimen of the Siberian rivers, and all the fish quietly sleeping on the other side of the world.
A dog barked. Voya stirred and muttered, “Idiot!” Even in sleep, she was angry, her eyebrows stitched together. I pulled on my boots, crept through the flat and down the corridor, and tiptoed past Vitaly, snoring in the stairwell.
The air was heavy, splitting at the seams. It was one of those foggy melting mornings, good for tossing coins and not looking where they fall. I got my bike and headed for the river and imagined, as I pedalled, and it squeaked and ticked, that it was singing sad songs, saying with its groans all that I wished I could say and never would.
When I reached the river, the veterans had already stretched their nets over the best spots. Upriver, the young boys, on summer holiday and bored, acted out the Book of Revelation. They threw rocks at each other and mimicked the various plagues described in that terrible book. Two boys tortured a hapless frog. Two others pretended that the river had turned to blood. And, because I had a patchy beard and close-set eyes, they called me Jesus. As I pedalled by one of the boys, a stone whizzed past my ear.
“You’re dead!” the boy shrieked. I stopped my bike and turned to him. It was Oleg’s little brother, Yuri. “I lobbed a grenade at you and you’re dead!” Yuri jabbed the air between us with a stick. I kept pedalling, and my bike kept ticking, all the way downriver to the place where the rocks broke the current. The water smelled like metal and the air smelled like earth. I planted my feet in the dirt, my body hollow and aching, but my hand steadier than it had been in months. Then I cast my line, cutting into the water like a razor.
I stood like that for hours, watching the sun slide through the sky. I was thinking about the fish, how they live their whole lives fighting water. They charge against the current, pushing for spawning waters. And then I felt a tug. I tightened my grip on the pole and hauled the line in. A speckled trout! How it had escaped the nets of the veterans I couldn’t even guess.
We fought for a while, me hauling the line, the fish trying to slough off the hook. At last, I worked the trout to the shallows. As I lifted it from the water and onto solid ground, it whipped its body around, thrashing against the hard-packed earth, croaking and whistling, angry to have been landed. Some people may not think much of the speckled trout, but on the bank, as it gasped and fought for air, the light caught its orange fins and red flanks and I saw for myself how beautiful a fish it was. I wanted to touch its heaving sides, make sure its scales weren’t actually gutter-shot gold. So pure and brave a fish—I was almost sorry to see it come to this.
Then I stabbed it and cleaned it quickly. I killed it because that’s what I had been taught to do and I was taught that we were not bad people for doing this. I thought of Good Nikolai and Bad Nikolai, of Boris. After all, even the beautiful and strong sometimes pay with their lives. And where only moments earlier I had stood in amazement before this fish, with its strong body and its powerful fins suggesting flight, I now stood saddened to have been the reason for its demise.
I bent and washed my hands in the river. Then I stepped out of the water, slid the trout inside my shirt, its slick skin against mine, and pedalled away. The whole way home I felt as if I had swallowed a sharp river reed and it had lodged inside my chest. When I opened my mouth for air, a hollow sound came whistling out of my throat. And inside my head that old ticking marked the retreat of the clouds and their slow cooling from the colors of fire to the colors of dusk: from pink to purple, to the hue of a bluing plate along a rifle, and then to ash.
By the time I’d made it to our courtyard, the moon was tethered to the hills, a full, concrete moon, the kind that turns men into animals, causes dogs to bark and married couples to fight.
When Vitaly saw me, he peeled himself from the stone archway. A cloud of mosquitoes followed him, a buzzing halo about his head and ears. He stopped, brought a flask to his mouth. I watched the bobbing of his Adam’s apple. Up, down. Up, down.
“Good news, boy-o! I’ve arranged everything!” Vitaly shouted once he’d finished drinking. As he approached, the mosquitoes wobbled away, dizzy. Somehow he looked longer of tooth. From his pocket he withdrew a shot glass. A real drinking glass! He handed me his flask. I could smell the watered-down rocket fuel inside. “Pour!” he ordered, and it struck me, as I carefully rimmed the glass, how amazingly wolflike Vitaly had become in the light of this moon.
“So. You’re going. Next week. Drink!”
I drank.
“Yes, you’ll go and have a wonderful time. Go down there and show them who’s boss. You’ll feel a thousand times better. And, finally, you’ll get the respect you deserve.”
“No,” I shook my head. “I don’t think so.”
From the fourth-floor window, Tinke’s head emerged, and at our window were Baba and Voya, their hair dyed in companion shades of purple.
“Yes, you’ll go and be a thousand times richer,” Vitaly said.
I thought of the fish in my shirt, of all the fish I wanted to catch, how along their scales entire decades can flit from shimmer to shadow. “No. I’m not going.”
Vitaly blinked, as if in the presence of an unexpected joke. Then he smashed his glass against the stone bench. “You coward! You dirty coward!” he bellowed, his fury absolute. Then he lowered his head and charged. He hit me, hard, in the stomach, and I fell against the stairs. My beautiful speckled trout slipped to the ground.
I looked at the fallen fish and felt within me such a mixture of rage and sorrow and lunacy that I almost understood why men kill each other. I reached for my trout and Vitaly lunged again. At that moment, a tomato pot whizzed from high above and clipped him on the shoulder. He staggered and collapsed against the bench. It was a long and thick silence that lay there between us. And then Vitaly grinned.
“Now, that’s true love,” he said, fanning the air about his face with one hand and pointing to our tomato pot with the other. I looked at the plant, the scattered dirt, the shards of the pot. Somewhere underneath all the mess was my speckled trout, pulverized.
ADVERTISEMENT
Vitaly took a liberal drink from his flask, then pointed his nose toward the moon and howled.
I trudged up the stairs to our flat. Voya met me at the door, took my hand, and led me to our sagging mattress. We sat in silence, listening to Vitaly and to the sounds coming from the road: even at this late hour, the kamaz trucks rattled and whined as they headed south for Mozdok. I thought of how history repeats itself in such sounds, in the growls of tanks and the booms of supersonic jets. How entire centuries are recalled in the return of the same weary dust.
I looked at Voya. Her violet hair hung in her face. “Who were you aiming for—me or Vitaly?” I asked her.
Voya ran her hands over her dress, smoothing the fabric with her fingers.
“You’re right,” I said. “It doesn’t really matter.”
“Tell me things will change,” she said. Her voice sounded irremediably sad. It was as if she had swallowed the same reed as I had, and it had changed the texture of her words from anger to a great and jagged sorrow. Through the veil of her hair I could see her mascara running.
“Things will change,” I said, but I could hear how empty my words sounded against the rumblings of the convoy outside the window.
Baba drifted to and from the windows, conferring with Tinke about Vitaly below.
“Well,” Tinke called, “he always was an exhibitionist.”
“He’ll probably take off his shirt,” Baba said.
“Or worse, recite a poem,” Grandpa Ilya shouted.
Mother laughed, and it was such a sweet sound, like water. I thought that, in all this madness, such a sound might save us.
“Come closer,” Voya said, unbuttoning my shirt. The concrete moon threw a wash of silver over our mattress. Voya kicked her stockpile of shoes into the corner and pulled her dress over her head, the light of the moon illuminating her neck and shoulders and her very kulturnyWestern brassiere. Ah, the concrete moon! It was, after all, the kind of moon that made crows fly backward and wheatgrass volunteer beside the road. A moon that asked the dust to settle, winked at stolen kisses, and caused the early stars to bloom in the sky and tomatoes to ripen on the vine. Voya kissed me then. Such kisses! With the first kiss, I was transported to the days before I knew what a war was. With the second, I was returned to the red passion of our youth, and with the third to renewal, to being brought back from the dead, remade from mud. 

