MIRACLE
By Judy Budnitz

"Don’t be surprised if he’s a little blue when he comes out.”
“A little . . . blue. All right.”
“I mean it,” the doctor says. “Before they start breathing properly, before the oxygen gets flowing. I don’t mean a bit blue, like a bruise. I mean blue blue, like this.” He taps her elastic-waist jeans.
“We’re not anticipating any problems, of course,” he says. “But it’s best to be prepared.”
“I won’t be surprised,” [REDACTED] promises. “I’ll act bored.”
“Atta girl.”
When the baby comes out, two weeks later, he doesn’t make a sound. Not a peep. She thinks he’s dead, even though she can see his arms waving. And he’s not blue. He’s black.
“I mean, like, coal black, ink black,” Jonas says in the hospital room afterward.
“I saw,” she reminds him, her hands folded on her gigantic tender belly. It’s as if there were another baby still in there.
“I mean, pure black, [REDACTED], like a color that doesn’t occur naturally, in nature, you know? It reminds me of those poor penguins after the oil spill, all black and greasy with their poor little flippers sticking out.”
“Wings. Penguins are birds.”
“And he came out with all that white gunk on him. And the cord was all . . . thick.”
“What did you expect? Look at your own belly button.”
“I thought it would be, like, a thread.” He’s ashamed because he was invited to cut the cord but hadn’t been able to bring himself to do it.
She wants to see her baby, but the doctor whisked him away to check him over, calling back, “Ten fingers and ten toes. He seems fine.”
“Maybe it’s a mutation, or he’s, like, a reverse albino,” Jonas says.
“Don’t use that word.” “Mutation” makes her think of swamp monsters, nuclear accidents, hands growing out of heads. The doctor hadn’t said exactly where those ten fingers and toes were.
“Don’t get mad, but . . . he is mine, isn’t he? I don’t even need to ask this, right?”
Finally. She’s impressed he managed to restrain himself this long.
“Of course.”
She thinks, naïvely, that this will be the end of it.
When they come and put the baby in her arms she feels tremendous relief. She kisses his head. The hair, plastered down before, is now dry and soft, perfectly straight and downy and golden. It glows metallic, glittery, like tinsel. His eyes are a startling pale blue, the color of ice, of cataracts.
A lactation coach, a nursing nurse, has come along to help her with the first time.
“He doesn’t like it!” [REDACTED] cries when the baby turns his face from her breast. “I taste bad!”
“He just doesn’t know how,” the coach says, soothingly. “He has to learn.”
“I thought it was instinctive. And why is he so quiet?”
“His ears and throat look fine. We’ll do a cat scan later just to be sure. But it seems that he’s just a calm, sweet-tempered baby. He doesn’t want to cry.”
“And his color?” Jonas asks.
The nurse glances at [REDACTED]. “Well, I think that’s something for the two of you to discuss, isn’t it?”
After she leaves, [REDACTED] says, “He’s not unnatural. There are plenty of people in the world who are just this color.” But she can’t help thinking that he does look unearthly. His skin has the solid, inorganic sheen of obsidian, an iridescence like oil.
Jonas says, “What are we going to name it? Him?”
“But we already decided on Robert.”
“I changed my mind. He doesn’t look like a Bobby, does he? He looks more like, say, an Alphonse.”
“Alphonse? Why Alphonse?”
“What’s wrong with Alphonse?”
“It’s atrocious.”
“The black kid at my high school was named Alphonse.”
“The black kid. There was only one?”
“What, like it’s my fault there was only one? I was friends with the guy. That baby looks a hundred times more like an Alphonse than a Bobby.”
“But you insisted. You wanted him to have your father’s name.”
“I changed my mind.”
They name him Gabriel. Gabe. They’re on their way home, Gabe strapped into the new car seat in back, when Jonas explodes.
“This is all your fault!” He sprays “f”s and “t”s all over the windshield.
“Why is it my fault?”
“You . . . You . . . That cigarette you smoked two months in! I saw you! The bathroom was full of smoke! Don’t deny it!”
“It made me nauseous. I didn’t even finish.”
“And the weird food, all the chocolate and burned toast. I kept telling you the burned part was carcinogenic, but did you listen?”
“I had cravings.”
“And the chocolate. I came home and you were, like, gnawing on a big hunk of baker’s chocolate. The bitter stuff.”
“You’re being—”
“And the poppy-seed bagels? I kept telling you those were the exact same poppy seeds they extract opium from, but did you listen?”
“We can do a paternity test, if you want. If that would make you feel better.”
His cheek pulses in and out.
She says, “Maybe we both have some African ancestors, way, way back. It’s some combination of recessive genes . . . ”
“I don’t have any African ancestors.”
“We’re all mongrels.”
“Not me. Maybe you, you’ve got those swarthy cousins . . . ”
“Maybe I am. Would that make any difference?”
He doesn’t answer that. “Maybe they switched babies at the hospital. It happens all the time.”
“We saw him come out.”
“I’m not so sure. I go color-blind when I panic.”
“He looks just like you.”
“Quit it. He doesn’t look a speck like me.”
They do not have a paternity test. “I trust you, honey. I trust you completely. This proves it, right? Right?”
She thinks he’s afraid, afraid of what he might find out. About her, about himself. He’d rather not know.
“Besides,” he says, “I don’t want them to have to stick the baby again. That would be cruel, right, to take blood from a baby for a pointless little test? What color do you think his blood is, anyway?”
Friends and neighbors stop by, bringing gifts and cards with cherubic pink babies on them, saying “wow,” and “hmmm,” and “gee.” “He’s a big one,” they all say. His size is a safe topic, uncontroversial, undeniable.
“Do you think his eyes will change?” one neighbor, who has four children of her own, says. “They often do.”
“I didn’t know that,” [REDACTED] says.
“Oh yes. They all have blue eyes to start. Later they sometimes turn green or gray or brown.”
The vagueness of the pronoun confuses [REDACTED]; for a moment she wants to ask where she can find some of these green, gray, or brown children for Gabe to play with.
Her friend Hugo brings over a miniature basketball and backboard. He hands the box over proudly, then snatches it back after he gets a peek at Gabe in his playpen. “I’m sorry,” he blurts. “I didn’t know. I didn’t mean anything by it.”
“By what?” she says. Gabe’s far too young for it, but she’d been looking forward to playing with the toy herself.

“I was planning to get one of those toy doctor kits, I was . . . ”
Friends stop by, but only her friends. Not Jonas’s. His parents don’t visit. His mother is ill and can’t travel. [REDACTED] knows this, but still it rankles.
Her best friend, Missy, comes bringing gifts for Gabe and also for her. They go up to the nursery where Gabe is napping. “Whoa!” Missy says admiringly. “You bad girl! Is Jonas mad?”
“No. He’s not mad at all.”
“Wow. He must be totally pussy-whipped.”
[REDACTED] cringes. She’s always hated the expression. It makes her picture a whip cracking out between her legs like a demonic tail.
“How did you choose ‘Gabriel’? Is that the father’s name?”
Even Missy doesn’t believe her.
It would be so much easier if there were a fancy, scientific-sounding label for it, So-and-So’s syndrome, a catchy set of initials. If only she had some statistics, if only she could say, “Just one child in ten million is born like this every year,” then it would sound better—she would seem lucky, a lottery winner. Instead he’s just a mistake, like an error in accounting, upsetting the balance, and people would rather erase him than do the math again, reconfigure the equations to make him work out.
The first time she brings Gabe back to bed with her, Jonas sits up. “What are you doing?”
“He can’t sleep.”
“Nurse him, then.”
“He’s lonely. Where are you going?”
“I’m afraid I’ll roll over in my sleep and crush him.”
“You won’t.”
“I can’t even see him in the dark. He blends right in.” He insists on moving to the couch.
Jonas won’t change diapers. He never smiles when Gabe burps or chews his toes; he simply stares disinterestedly, as if his son were a specimen in a lab or an anthropological sample, performing curious local customs. At night she is the one to get up, every time, when they hear Gabe rustling around. “He’s just hungry,” Jonas insists. “I’m not the milk machine.”
She hopes he will come around eventually.
"He’s gone,” she says to the empty house.
Panic rising in her throat. She’s running downstairs. Running upstairs again. Wet footprints everywhere. Classic nightmare—curtains billowing around an open window. The stark crib—no blankets, no suffocating toys, totally sids-proof—empty of Gabe as well. She put him down for just five minutes while she took a shower.
Just five minutes. That’s what they all say. An interval plenty wide enough for disaster to come plowing through.
Downstairs again. Cold air on her wet back. Maybe an animal got in the window? Dashes back up to the nursery. There’s a crouching, furry shape on the floor—
Her sopping towel. “Jonas,” she says. Jonas isn’t here. Did he sneak in and take Gabe away somewhere? She hears stealthy movement downstairs. She takes a step and it stops. She takes another. It’s listening, waiting for her.
She goes downstairs, cupping her heavy breasts. They’re aching from all the jouncing around. There’s a rustle in the living room. A surprise party, friends in paper hats crouching behind chairs? She crosses the threshold choking on dread.
And sees Gabe, sitting in the special vibrating seat he loves. He’s panting a little as he bobs his head, trying to make it go. She snatches him up. He’s burning hot against her cold, clammy skin.
“You just forgot,” Jonas says when he comes home that night. “You’re overtired. You thought you put him in the crib, but really you put him in the seat.”
“What, I just misplaced him?”
Jonas is smiling, smirking, not meeting her eyes. He’s trying to provoke her. He did this, somehow. Let him gloat. Her one small satisfaction is that if he smuggled Gabe downstairs he must have touched him to do it, and that’s a first.
Jonas turns to his friends; he has a few left over from his grad-school days who are stretching out their dissertations as long as possible, with whom he likes to drink beer and sit around pontificating. They spend hours arguing movies, politics, debating who would win in death matches. Superman versus Batman? Bear versus shark? The [REDACTED] versus an alliance of North Korea, [REDACTED], and Vatican City? A sort of men’s club. A men’s club for men who never hunt, who hate sports, and who are fanatical about their obscure music choices. This becomes his support group.
The house feels more comfortable without him. She watches tennis tournaments, Gabe nestled in her arms. White-clad people grunt, thrust, grow angry, swear daintily. The ball snaps back and forth with satisfying pops. Anxious crouching runners dart out to snare stray balls. There is a pleasing rhythm, as if even the players, despite their outbursts, were following a script. “I could watch this all day,” she tells Gabe. Some days she does.
One evening Jonas comes home late, smelling of beer and cigarette smoke. He stands swaying in the bedroom doorway, his shirt unbuttoned one more button than usual. She wonders about him driving. She’ll say something about it tomorrow.
“Tell me honestly. Did you have an affair with a black man?”
“No.”
“Not with Martin?”
“Martin’s gay.”
“So you’re saying if he wasn’t gay you’d want to . . . ”
“No!”
“Aliens, then. Don’t get mad! Just think about it for a minute. It happens all the time.”
“Aliens? I’m beginning to think I’m married to one.”
His chubby legs, his downy blond hair like chick fluff, his bottom in his saggy diapers, his perfect ears. The way he watches everything, his pale eyes full of calm inquiry. He smiles, he does it all the time, though she knows everyone would tell her that it’s too soon, that it’s only a burp, or a twitch, or a trick of the light.
He gets fretful sometimes, screwing up his face and batting himself with his fists. She takes him to the pediatrician, who looks searchingly between his legs and says, “Bad case of diaper rash.”
“But I don’t see anything.”
“With him it’s harder to see the redness. There’s a cream you should try.”
The doctor is a tall woman with a mass of striking mahogany-colored hair that she always wears knotted on top of her head and held in place with two chopsticks or knitting needles. This arrangement seems dangerous to [REDACTED]; she keeps picturing eyeballs poked out, babies impaled. And yet the hair was a major factor in choosing this doctor. [REDACTED] longs to see it unknotted, trailing on the floor. She hopes, maybe one day when they are more friendly, that she can ask to see it, and that the doctor, smiling, will oblige her.
“You need to be very vigilant with this sort of thing,” the doctor is saying. “With this skin, bruises are harder to spot. You’ll have to check him for other signs.”
“He still never cries. Not a sound.”
“We can’t find any reason for it. He’s just quiet. You’re lucky. A perfect baby.”
She keeps thinking, for some reason, about the professor in her art-history class. Going on and on about negative space, how sculpture is about the skin, that edge where substance and absence meet. How the presence of empty space, a void, causes a solid object to reveal itself.

Gabriel stares, pupils floating in near-white irises like flecks trapped in ice. He can be so still, sometimes, as if holding his breath. A statue of a child. When she sees other children she’s shocked by the noise, the frenzied motion. One day she sees a neighbor’s child squirming in his stroller, bucking against the straps, and thinks he’s having a seizure. “Hyperactive,” she tells Gabe, whose motions are as slow and deliberate as a chess player’s. “Not like you.”
In the middle of the night she reads to him, books she loved as a child. She knows he doesn’t understand, but the sound of her voice puts him to sleep.
One night she reads:
**{: .break one} ** The gypsies came and stole the child away in the dead of night. They came all a-creeping, silent and slinking. It used to happen all the time, you know, every family had a story of a dear little lost one. But most people don’t know that it still goes on. The gypsies take only the naughty, the pretty children. Children are so ugly nowadays. They carried the children off in great sacks, bouncing against their backs, to the gypsy market where they were sold to the diamond mines where the shafts are too small for a grown man, or to the factories that need tiny fingers to tighten screws. Or to the circuses to feed the lions and tigers. We like the circus, the children said. We like lions and tigers. O-ho, the gypsies said, they will like you too. **
It’s an old book, full of racial stereotypes, grisly violence. She’s surprised by how frightening it is. Long after Gabe dozes off, she sits up, reading ahead, unable to sleep, afraid to turn the light off. The glowing yellow eyes in the illustrations follow her around after she closes the book.
"Let’s have another baby,” Jonas says. “But not so soon.”
“I want to start it now.” Pushing her to the bed and bouncing her down. “A little girl? Hunh? As soon as possible. I want to see . . . ”
“You want to see what color the next one will be?”
“Let’s see if we’re capable of producing a normal baby. Don’t you want to know?”
“No,” she said. “No. Not like this.”
Gabe is quiet in the nursery. Jonas pushes her down ungently. He’s not rough; he’s been much rougher in the past, when they played around at wrestling and manhandling each other. But it scares her now. She goes limp, pictures a rabbit in a dog’s mouth, carried so gently the teeth don’t break the skin. She imagines she can hear Gabe’s breathing.
When he’s done he says, “Oh honey, oh sweetie, I’m sorry. I didn’t know you were still sore there. It’s been months—I thought you were O.K. by now.”
“It’s fine,” she says mechanically and totters to the bathroom to wipe herself off. She has her period, but she won’t tell him that. Let him think he’s hurt her.
The next day he brings her flowers, a recording of the Brahms lullaby, a brick of baker’s chocolate, and a bouquet of spinach leaves. The flowers’ scent is so strong it nauseates her. The music makes her want to smash something. The spinach is a mystery until she remembers Jonas reading her something about folic acid, conception, healthy embryos in the early stages.
They don’t talk about it; it’s as though it hadn’t happened.
She’d only meant to guilt-trip him a little, but now she realizes that she’s set a dangerous precedent. Jonas didn’t hurt her, but he thought he did. And she let him. Now he thinks he can get away with it. Now it will be easier for him to do it again. But it won’t be again; it will be the first time.
Gabe glares at Jonas over his high-chair tray, his hairless brows wrinkled.
“He’s fussy this morning,” she says, though he doesn’t look fussy—he looks like a stern Buddha passing judgment. He knows.
“Those eyes,” Jonas says and hides behind the tent of his newspaper.
[REDACTED] thinks of the storybook gypsy eyes. She keeps thinking she sees them staring out of the shrubbery in the yard. She goes to lift Gabe out of the high chair and realizes she can’t; the angle’s awkward, but it’s more than that. He doesn’t look any bigger, but he seems to weigh twice as much, as though there were a magnetic force pulling him toward the earth.
She waits until Jonas leaves for the day, so she can brace herself, heave, and strain in private.
[REDACTED]’s in the checkout line at the grocery store, Gabe strapped in a pouch against her chest. It’s an effort to stand up straight. She’s staring at the headlines of the tabloids—“mother of septuplets wants to name them all steve,” “local man buries family alive in back yard then plants tulips,” “lose twenty pounds in three days with miracle shad diet,” “iowa crop circles indicate location of missing child”—when a bejewelled hand enters her line of vision. The hand descends on Gabe’s head, fondling his hair in a proprietary way.
“His hair’s dry,” the woman says. “You need to use conditioner on him.” She’s an older black woman with short hair and large earrings and enormous unblinking eyes. She has a bale of Huggies in her cart. So does [REDACTED]. Huggies are on sale.
“It always looks like that.”
“That’s what I’m saying. It’s all dry. He needs conditioning. You people don’t understand.”
“I’ll try it.” She won’t. She likes it this way. She both resents the woman’s authoritative handling of Gabe’s head and feels strangely grateful. Take me in, she wants to say. Take me home. Tell me what to do. Gabe’s black, she thinks, but he’s not black. Or is he? Is he old enough to notice these things yet? Maybe he would feel more at home among black people. Why doesn’t she have more black friends? She ought to have more of them. Maybe that’s what she should do—infiltrate, ingratiate herself. Make friends with women like this one, who seems so sure of the right thing to do.
“You can’t have the boy going around looking like Buckwheat. A blond Buckwheat. I can’t believe you put peroxide on a baby, poor thing.”
“He was born like that.”
“Listen,” the woman says, stepping closer, with a confidential air. “I appreciate what you’re trying to do and all, but I’m sorry, it’s not right. You’re misguided. You’re hurting more than helping. The child’s going to grow up all confused about what he is.”
“What do you think I should do?”
“Why couldn’t you adopt a nice white child? It’s good of you to want to give some child a home, but why not one of your own kind? The boy’s going to end up feeling like he doesn’t fit in anywhere. There’s no lonelier feeling. He needs his black community.”
“He’s not adopted.”
“Oh, really?” The woman takes in [REDACTED]’s limp colorless hair, the blue veins showing through her pale skin. The kind of pale that prompts strangers to ask if she’s just given blood, if she’d like to lie down. “Really? Well, that must have been the blackest black man in the universe! Black-hole black!” The friendly condescension has turned in a second to rancor. There’s nowhere to go in the narrow chute between racks of magazines and bubble gum. Heads in other lines are starting to turn. Gabe is struggling, clawing at her.

She tries to comfort him. He fights as though he were trying to escape. She looks at Gabe, at the black woman, trying to see kinship. But the woman is about a hundred shades lighter than Gabe, a warm, rich brown. The closest thing to Gabe’s color is the black of the checkout conveyor belt.
She feels a foolish grin spreading over her face. Her knees buckling. Jonas has talked about how it would be easier for him if Gabe had some dread disease. She can see what he means. Jonas wants to fight, he wants a distinct enemy. He wants to donate a kidney, argue with doctors, spend nights in a hospital drinking bad coffee, scream at the insurance agency. He wants heroics, tragedy, not the constant petty battles of the day-to-day.
“He must have been Mister Super-Negro, Mister Out-of-Africa,” the woman chortles. “Oh, lord.”
[REDACTED] calls Missy and says, “He’s getting worse and worse.”
“Worse how?”
“All he does now is sleep, eat, and give me these evil-eye looks.”
“Are you thinking about splitting up?”
“No! I could never . . . ”
“But you keep saying you can’t stand being around him.”
She sighs. “It’s terrible, but sometimes I think I’d be happy if he just . . . disappeared. It would be so much easier.”
“Then you could get back together with that black guy,” Missy says. “You never told me his name.”
“I keep telling you, there isn’t any . . . wait, what was that?”
“Something at your end.”
She knows what it was: the muffled click of a receiver stealthily put down, and downstairs in the kitchen the lumbering tread of a man trying to tiptoe.
They lie in bed, on their backs, watching reflections of headlights glide across the ceiling. Blank-faced and wide awake, two paper dolls.
“You’re such a hypocrite,” Jonas says. “You said it yourself. I heard you. I don’t know why you get so mad at me for wishing it.”
“Said what?”
“That it would be nice. If he just. Went away.”
She stops going to the grocery store. She makes lists for Jonas, and he buys double of everything, to minimize shopping trips. Bananas rot in the kitchen, the refrigerator is crammed with fat-free margarine, and there’s a wall of Huggies in the corner of the nursery that goes all the way up to the ceiling, like a barricade.
“Why won’t you just hold him?” she says.
“I’m afraid I’ll break him.”
“Don’t you want to?”
“I’m afraid of what I might do.”
And she’s afraid, too, that if he picks Gabe up he’ll feel the strange denseness, the rock-solidness of him that is making him harder and harder to bear.
She lugs Gabe to the pediatrician and is horrified to discover that the doctor has cut off her hair. She now has a mannish crewcut that reveals the irregular bumps of her skull. [REDACTED] feels betrayed.
The doctor inspects Gabe.
“There’s something strange. About his weight,” [REDACTED] says.
“I’m not really concerned about that right now,” the doctor says. “I’d rather focus on this.” She gestures at Gabe’s arms, then his chest, then the back of his head.
“What? I don’t see anything.”
“Bruising. It’s common, at this age, when they’re first crawling around and bumping into things, but . . . ”
“He doesn’t crawl around,” [REDACTED] says. “He just sits there.”
The doctor looks at her probingly. “Are you sure you’re not being too rough with him?” she says. “You might be hurting him without realizing it.”
“I’d know! He’d tell me!” [REDACTED] says hotly, privately wondering how. Write little notes? Use sign language?
The doctor is silent so long that they both hear [REDACTED]’s stomach make a squealing, spiralling sound.
“Just remember to be gentle,” the doctor says finally. “Watch the bruises.” She makes [REDACTED] look closely, pointing out the blacker-than-black marks that she says are sore spots. She talks about the “thumb-shaped” bruises on his chest, and the “finger-sized” ones on his back. “I’d like to do another cat scan,” she says, but just then an unearthly howling arises from another examining room. The doctor dashes out, and [REDACTED] grabs Gabe and his clothes and flees.
"Jonas?” “What?”
“Nothing.”
He looks different. He’s shaved something off, or let something grow. Why is everyone changing their hair all of a sudden? The difference is that he’s clean-shaven, she decides, rather than sporting his usual half-grown stubble. His eyebrows look groomed. And his eyelashes are gone. Has he never had eyelashes? How could she not notice something like that? The absence of hair ought to reveal more of him, but somehow it has the opposite effect: his face seems harder, smoother, more artificial, a rigid mask.
“Jonas?”
“What?”
She looks at his hands. They’re thick, blunt, made for crushing things or wrenching them apart. She should leave. She should just leave, right now. Instead she runs her finger down his cheek. It’s as soft as suède.
They make love on the couch. Jonas moves so slowly, so gently, he doesn’t break a sweat. Gabe watches the whole thing from his bouncy-swing. He’s so heavy he doesn’t bounce, just hangs suspended, the frame buckling under his deadweight.
The second time Gabe vanishes she knows she shouldn’t panic. But she does. She panics more than she did the first time. Again she dashes up and down stairs, wheeling and whirling, her own hysterical breathing drowning out all other sound. Finally she stops, pauses, tries to feel on her skin the tiny air currents stirred up by movement somewhere in the house.
She finds him sitting in the empty bathtub, not crying, not lost in contemplation of his warped reflection in the faucet, as a normal baby would be. He’s sitting, hands folded, patient, simply waiting.
She lugs him to his changing table, whips off his playsuit, his diaper, turns on a bright lamp, and inspects him all over. She thinks she sees a new bruise on his ankle, then one on his groin. Then a ring of small ones flowering on his shoulder like a bite mark. Then one on his cheek. Then she’s seeing them everywhere, his whole hide is mottled with them, coated with them.
“I give up,” she says.
She hears Jonas slam the front door. “Baby,” he calls. “Baby, darling, mother dear, shoogums, sweetheart, honey pie, sugar lips, babycakes, cinnamon roll”—reciting the litany of eons ago, back when he was always kidding but meant it all and she didn’t believe a word of it. She feels a frantic desire to hide—hide herself, hide Gabe, fold up the entire house and hide it in her pocket. She crouches over the changing table and hears Jonas’s footsteps on the stairs. She is conscious of her exposed back, the vulnerability of her nape and skull.
She tells herself that there is a masked intruder coming down the hall. That fantasy is preferable to the truth.
“Honey,” he says. “I’m home.”
She wakes feeling that something is wrong. She wakes to vertigo every morning, but today is different.
She trudges to the nursery, rotating her sore shoulders, cracking her back. The rocking chair nods gently, as if someone had just vacated it. The astronauts and cowboys and lion tamers on the wallpaper wink at her. Jonas picked the paper; she had been skeptical. The astronauts have what are unquestionably codpieces attached to their spacesuits, and the lion tamers seem a little too fey. For the hundredth time she resolves to repaper the room. She leans over the crib.

A pink-skinned, black-haired green-eyed baby looks back at her. She screams. The baby screams. It’s so loud, she’s never heard anything so loud, it’s like the walls are screaming.
Jonas comes running. He comes just a little too quickly, as if he’d been waiting a few steps down the hall; his surprise is a bit too theatrical.
“Where is Gabe?” she screams. “Where is he?”
Jonas’s face shifts from blankness to surprise to ecstatic realization in a metamorphosis that has clearly been rehearsed for hours before the bathroom mirror. “But this is Gabe. He’s changed. He’s cured.”
“This is not Gabe! Have you lost your mind? Where did this baby come from?”
“It’s a miracle. He finally changed. I knew he would. He’s healed.”
“He wasn’t sick! He was fine before!”
“He’s normal now. We can be a normal family. Isn’t that what you wanted?”
“What you wanted.”
The baby’s eyes flick back and forth; fists wave in the air; legs kick. A new sound comes out of its mouth. Not a scream. Something else. The audible language of babies is so foreign to her she doesn’t understand what’s happening. Jonas lifts the baby and holds it against his shoulder, and the noise stops.
“What is going on?”
A loud burp mocks her. Jonas? Or the baby?
“Why can’t you just be happy?” Jonas says.
And that’s what everyone tells her: the doctors, the police when she insists on calling them, her parents, their friends. It’s a miracle, people say. You should consider yourselves lucky. Just one of those things. Even the doctors say this.
“Don’t put a gift horse in your mouth, right?” Jonas says. “Count your blessings, right? Didn’t you say that?” The new baby vomits great lumpy gouts on her shoulder. He has mushy features, a fat chin—nothing like Gabe’s. He’s light, flabby, insubstantial. She could toss him out the window if she wanted to. She might. He screams and screams. His face turns red when he screams, when he burps, when the slightest flicker of emotion or indigestion ripples through him.
“Like you,” Jonas says. Which is true; when [REDACTED] gets embarrassed or excited, red splotches appear on her throat and chest, as if she were being throttled by an invisible strangler. She’s splotchy now.
“Why can’t you accept a good thing?” Jonas asks. “I can understand being in denial about a tragedy, but not this. Why do you have to question it?”
“This is not my baby,” she says. No one listens.
But she knows. A mother knows. Her breasts ache. Her longing for Gabe is intensely physical, a barbed fishhook tugging.
The strange baby sucks at her, eating her up. That’s not yours, she wants to tell him. It’s on loan, it belongs to someone else. When he comes back, you’ll have to repay the debt somehow.
She tells herself she is a wet nurse, as in medieval times, suckling the queen’s child. It’s a job, that’s all.
“It was just a phase,” Jonas says. “He outgrew it.” He’s full of authority all of a sudden. Doesn’t he ever go to work anymore? Seems like he’s always here, changing diapers, wiping everything down with antiseptic cleaners, plying the baby with soft goggle-eyed toys.
She surreptitiously rifles the house, every baby-sized space she can think of. She peers into the clothes dryer with a flashlight before using it.
With the baby on her shoulder, she searches the back yard for spots of freshly turned-up earth. She’s being morbid, she knows.
She finds a soft patch and begins digging at it with the toe of her sneaker. The dirt comes away easily. It would be quicker with a shovel, but she doesn’t want to put the baby down and go get one. She can’t leave the baby in the house, she needs him here, she needs him to see, bear witness. She must maintain balance, at all costs. Whatever hole she finds Gabe in, she will take him out and leave this strange baby in his place.
She’s still kicking and scooping with her foot when Jonas comes home. Headlights. Door slamming. Lights go on in rooms, she hears his voice faintly calling. She sees the light go on in the nursery, now she sees his flitting, panicked shadow. She should call to him. But not yet, not yet, she’ll watch the show a minute longer. That must be what I looked like, she thinks, when I found Gabe missing.
Something catches his eye, her white shirt, probably, moving against the darkening hedges. He comes racing outside, little loose bits of him—hair, shirt collar, glasses, jowls—jiggling and fluttering.
He looks at her, the baby, the breadbox-size hole. “What are you doing?”
“I thought . . . I thought . . . ”
“I know what you thought. Can’t you see how silly you’re being?”
Yes, she thinks, I underestimated you. Of course you wouldn’t hide him here, right under our noses.
“What do we have to do,” he says, “to make you happy?”
“You know.”
“Listen,” he sighs. “What if I stop trying to convince you that this is Gabe? Why don’t we pretend that this is another kid, who’s just dropped in our laps and we have to take care of him. Would that make it easier?”
“No,” she says, staring at his teeth, which are blue in the twilight. She rubs the baby’s back. He burrows his way into her neck and glues himself there with drool. Jonas is right; it’ll be far easier to be charitable and love a strange child than to surrender her convictions and concede that he’s really hers.
 
But she finds that the former begins to gradually lead her to the latter, in a slow and insidious way. As days and weeks pass, she relaxes into routines, takes pleasure in the baby’s burps and crows and crawling, and forgets for long traitorous periods about her real son. And then it’s not a forgetting; she begins to suspect that everyone is right and she is wrong, that this is Gabe after all.
Am I going to react this violently every time he changes? she asks herself. Am I going to be one of those mothers who can’t bear their children to grow up, even a little bit?
She begins to think she sees him, her Gabe, in this baby. Truly in him; she glimpses the shimmer of Gabe’s pale eyes behind the baby’s greenish ones, the glint of gold beneath the scalp, like hairs trapped beneath stockings.
Impossible, she thinks. But she can’t shake the idea.
How clever of Jonas, she thinks, to hide him in plain sight.
Impossible.
But they smell the same, don’t they? This baby and Gabe. She searches her library of sense memories. And the teeth, the teeth are exactly the same. Jonas never even knew about the teeth. He couldn’t have known to find a replacement baby with the exact same—
Gabe’s in there, she thinks, he’s been inside there all along. Trapped. Trying to signal to her, calling silently. She puts an ear to the baby’s chest.
She tries to put the thoughts aside but they bounce back up like balloons. What does it matter, she thinks. If Gabe is in there, then she should be glad to have him, in any form. But she wants proof. She wants to be sure.

A strange line of thought arises, which she tries to erase, but can’t. She has sudden urges, imagines smashing the baby like a vase to see what’s inside, imagines unscrewing his head like the top of a perfume bottle. Changing his diaper, she pulls his legs apart to clean him and imagines pulling, and pulling, and pulling.
She has to lay her suspicions to rest, once and for all. If she could just lift up a bit of skin and see—
This pale skin that has grown up over him like a crust, a chrysalis—
Just peel back a corner, like getting a peek at the old wallpaper—
Just a peek—then she will be at peace. Then she will lay down her arms, she will concede everything. She will be the best mother the world has ever seen.
Just a little bit. She’ll be so gentle, he won’t even feel it. Quick, now, before she loses her nerve. Gabe darling, if that’s you in there, just lie still, Mommy’s coming—
Jonas has left work early—no reason, just felt something was wrong at home, first stirrings of the parent’s sixth sense. He checks the yard, then clatters through the house, vaults up the stairs. Now he pauses in the doorway of the nursery and sees a woman he doesn’t recognize, a woman with only the vaguest resemblance to his wife, hunched over the baby on the changing table. The baby is silent, as if curious, waiting. The changeling mother bends studiously to her work, moments away from discovery, revelation, reunion. The baby holds his breath. 

