SUCKERS
By V. S. Naipaul

My father was ill. Not yet close to dying. I used to go down from [REDACTED] at weekends to see him. I used to think how shabby his house was, more a cottage than a house, how dusty and smoky, how much in need of a coat of paint, and that was what my father thought, too. He thought that it was too little to be left with after a life of work and worry.
But duty is duty, and one of my big worries was finding someone to look after the house for my father. There was a time when a substantial portion of the population was in domestic service. There was no problem then. A certain amount of coming and going, but no lasting problem. When you read books from before the war, you notice, if you have this particular worry on your mind, that people quite easily left their houses and went away visiting for days and weeks. Servants gave them that freedom.
Now the servant class has vanished. No one knows what the servants have metamorphosed into. One thing we can be sure of is that we have not lost them, that they are still in varying ways with us, in culture and attitudes of dependence. In every town and large village, we now have ancillary council estates, clusters of subsidized dwellings meant originally for the poor. These clusters are recognizable even from the train. They have a deliberate socialist ugliness, a conscious suppression of those ideas of beauty and humanity that rise naturally from the heart. There can be no absolute match of one age with another, but I wouldn’t be surprised if the percentage of people at one time in domestic service isn’t matched now by the numbers on these council estates.
And, of course, it is to these places that we have to look for help with our houses. We put our pleading little cards in the local newsagent’s window. In due course, the cleaning people come. And, in due course, they go. And, since no one keeps an inventory in his mind of all that he has in his house, it is only after they have left that we realize that this is missing and that has gone. Dickens set Fagin’s thieves’ kitchen in the Seven Dials area of [REDACTED], around what is now Tottenham Court Road, with the bookshops. From there, Fagin sent his little people out to pick a pathetic little purse or lift a pretty handkerchief. Fearful to Dickens, these wanderers abroad, but to us so innocent, so daring. Today, circumstances require us actually to invite the Artful Dodger and his crew into our house, and the insurance companies tell us, too late, that nothing lost in this way can ever be redeemed. Strange and various needs the modern Dodgers have: all the sugar in a house, perhaps; all the coffee; the envelopes; half the underclothes; every piece of pornography.
Life in these circumstances becomes, in a small way, a constant gamble and an anxiety. We all learn to live with it. And, in fact, after much coming and going we at last found someone suitable for my father’s house. Jo was a country girl, but very much up to the minute, single, with a couple of children, dually fathered, if that is grammatically possible, who brought her quite a tidy sum every week. She spoke of people being of “good stock,” and she seemed to suggest that after her early mistakes she was striving for higher things.
This didn’t impress me. I took it as a mark of criminality. I have known criminals all my professional life, and in my experience this is how criminals like to present themselves. But I was wrong about this woman. She stayed, and was good and reliable. She was in her thirties, educated, able to write reasonably well, an elegant dresser (buying stylish things cheap from mail-order firms), and her manners were good. She stayed for six, seven, eight years. She became a fixture. I began—almost—to take her for granted.
I took good care all this time to show no interest in her private life. I am sure that it was quite complicated, given her looks, but I never wanted to know. I feared being dragged down into the details. I didn’t want to know that Simon, a builder, was like this, or Michael, a taxi-driver, was like that.
I used to go down to the cottage on Friday evenings. One Saturday morning she told me, without any prompting, that she had had a hard week. So hard that one night she had come to the cottage, parked her car in the little drive, and cried. I asked why she had come to the cottage to cry.
She said, “I have nowhere else to go. I knew that your father wouldn’t mind. And after all these years I regard the cottage as my home.”
I understood what she meant; it tore at my heart, but even then I genuinely didn’t want to know the details. And, of course, in time she got over that crisis and was as serene and stylish and well mannered as ever.
Some time passed. And then again I began to understand that there was something new in Jo’s life. Not a man, but a woman. Someone new on the council estate, or someone just discovered. The other woman’s name was Marian. She was artistic; she made curtains and painted earthenware plates. She infected Jo with a wish to do similar things. On weekends I began to hear about the expensiveness of kilns. Six or eight hundred pounds. I had the idea that I was being asked, in the name of art and Jo’s general social endeavor, to spend some money on an electric home kiln. A business expense, which would apparently be recovered in no time. As it was, Jo was getting almost no return on her craft and art. By the time she had paid for the plain earthenware plates on which she did her painting, of flowers or dogs or tiny kittens in teacups, and then for the baking of her painted plates by a kiln owner on the council estate, for the renting of a stall at a craft fair, for the travel to the fair—by the time she had done all that, she was showing no profit at all. I imagined her sitting forlornly beside her goods at the fair, as an ancestor in long skirts and clogs might have sat in a simpler time beside her eggs in a village market, ready at the end of the weary day to exchange everything for a handful of magic seeds.
Sometimes in [REDACTED], a go-ahead young art dealer whom you have just got to know invites you to dinner. And it seems at first that everything in his austerely laid-out house or flat is exceptionally tasteful and well chosen, the enviable discoveries of an unusual eye. When at last you feel you must remark on the long and lovely old oak table on which you are dining, you are told that it is for sale, along with everything else you have seen. You realize then that you have been invited not just to dinner but to an exhibition, the way a developer might ask you to a show house, for a little more than the pleasure of your company.

So now it was with Jo. She began on Saturday mornings to undo big, heavy bundles of her work—painted plates, enamel-and-wire work, very streaky landscapes and portraits in wax, charcoal drawings of animals, watercolors of rivers and willows. Everything that could be framed was framed, with very big mounts; that was why the bundles were so heavy.
These Saturday exhibitions put me on the spot. I actually was interested. It was moving to me to see these stirrings of the spirit where I had expected nothing. But to express interest was to encourage the display of another big bundle the following Saturday. To say then that there was real talent there and that it might be a good idea for her to take drawing or watercolor lessons drew no response from her. It was not what she wanted to hear.
Somehow the idea had been given to her that talent was natural and couldn’t be forced or trained. When I said that one piece showed a big development, she said, “I guess it was all there.” She was speaking of the bubbling up of her talent, and she was not boasting. She might as well have been talking of something outside herself. I felt that these semi-political ideas about the naturalness of artistic talent—and its classlessness: there was more than a hint of that—had been given to her by someone. I thought it might be her new friend Marian.
It took me a little time to understand that Jo had been presenting her work to me not for my criticism but because she wanted me to buy her work; she wanted me to tell my [REDACTED] friends about her. I was a craft fair all on my own. And so was my father. The work Jo brought on Saturday mornings was not hers alone. There were many pieces by Marian, and she was generous about them. No jealousy there. I began to feel that these two women, one encouraging the other, had become awed by themselves. They were ordinary people, but their talent made them remarkable, above the common run of women. They liked every artistic thing they did. Each piece was to them a little miracle. I became nervous of these women, and very much on my guard.
Sometimes they liked to leave work in the cottage. This was more for my father than for me. However fierce he was with outsiders, he was gentle with Jo. He liked to give the impression that he was in her hands. He actually never was. This bit of acting pleased him: a little power play—letting the two women, suppliants in this matter of artwork, think that he was feebler than he was. The idea of Jo and Marian was that after a week or so the beauty of a piece would be overwhelming and my father would buy. You can’t blame them; this is what some [REDACTED] dealers do.
An important craft fair was coming up. I heard about it weeks beforehand from Jo. It was to be on a Sunday, and on the morning of that Sunday a Volvo station wagon pulled into the cottage drive. A woman I didn’t know was driving. I took this to be Marian. Jo was sitting beside her. They had come to take away some of the artwork that they had left for my father to get used to. Jo got out first and, very much the woman who knew her way around, let herself into the cottage. She came out shortly afterward with my father, who, overdoing the dodderiness, was ineffectually helping to bring various awkwardly shaped pieces (big frames, big mounts) out to the porch.
My room was at the other end of the cottage, near the entrance gateway, at the beginning of the small semicircular drive. So when Marian got out of the car to greet my father I saw her from the back. Her black, too loose elastic pants, part of a black outfit, had slipped far down. And that energetic getting out of the Volvo, using the steering wheel to lever herself out, had pulled them askew and even lower.
She said to my father, “I’ve been admiring your lovely house. I’ve heard so much about it from Jo.”
Such directness, such social grace wasn’t at all what I had been expecting. Nor was the big Volvo, handled with a matching grace as, sitting high, she eased it into the tight, awkward curve of our drive. For years afterward, I could recall that moment. She was tall, a further surprise, not plebeian or council-estate in figure but exercised and slender. The glimpse of her lower body, the coarse black material contrasting with the lovely skin, fixed the moment in my mind. With a quick right hand, she straightened the back of her pants, pulling them out and down a little more before pulling them up. I doubt whether she knew what she had done. But the moment was ever with me. When, later, we were together, it could bring about an immediate desire for her, or put life into a lagging performance.
I watched them put their pieces in the station wagon and drive away. I was too nervous to call out to Jo. And so it happened that for a week I was obsessed by a woman whose face I hadn’t even seen.
On Saturday, I asked Jo how the fair had gone. She said that it hadn’t gone at all. She and Marian had sat all day at their stall (the rent was twenty-five pounds) and nothing had happened. Toward the end of the afternoon, some men had appeared to be interested, but they were only trying to pick them up.
I said, “I saw Marian last Sunday morning when she came here.”
I had tried to speak as neutrally as possible. But the look on Jo’s face told me that I had given myself away. Women are sharp about sexual attraction, even when they themselves are not involved. All their senses are trained to detect the beginnings of interest and inclination, a man’s loss of neutrality.
Jo’s bright eyes became shaded with roguishness and complicity. She herself was displaying a new character, as if to match what she had seen in me.
I asked, “What does Marian do?”
“She is a swimmer. She works at the baths.” The municipal baths in our market town.
That explained the exercised body. I had never been to the municipal baths and I imagined myself in a biggish pool with barefoot Marian in her swimsuit doing her rounds, walking a foot or two above the level of my head. (Though I knew it wouldn’t be like that: she would more likely be in a synthetic shell suit of some sort, sitting in a chair beside the sun-bleached and water-stained plywood tea counter, drinking bad coffee or tea, and reading a magazine.)
Jo, as if reading my thoughts, said, “She’s lovely, isn’t she?” Generous, as always, about her friend, but still with the new complicit look, as though she were ready for any adventure with me that might include her friend.
I thought of the exercised and relaxed body stretched out in her bed, clean body on clean sheets, smelling of chlorine and water, and I was deeply stirred.

Jo said, “She’s made a couple of mistakes. Like the rest of us.”
Jo’s language was like that, filled with strange old-fashioned echoes: the mistakes were no doubt children by unsuitable men.
She said, “She’s been living with someone for ages.”
She began to tell me what this man did, but I stopped her. I didn’t want to know any more. I didn’t want to get a picture of him. It would have been unbearable.
My pursuit of Marian was the most humiliating thing I had ever exposed myself to. And at the end, to add to my humiliation, I discovered that council-estate women of Marian’s age thought of sex in the most matter-of-fact way—in the crudest way, you might say, or the simplest, the most natural, almost as something that they had to go shopping for—and in the same spirit of sport with which they went shopping for cut-price groceries (on certain evenings, when the supermarkets marked down perishable items).
Marian told me later that groups of young women in her area would form a party on Thursdays or Fridays or Saturdays and go out to the pubs and clubs, trawling for sex with men they fancied on sight. Fancied: that was the word. “I fancy him.” No woman wanted not to have a man she fancied. These occasions could turn rough. The fancied men were also matter-of-fact about sex, and a woman could easily be knocked about. If she objected too loudly, or with too many obscenities, she could be given a “beer shampoo”: a bottle of beer emptied over her head. It was all part of the sex game. Almost every woman who did this kind of weekend clubbing had at one time or another had a beer shampoo. At the end, there was sex for everyone, however fat, however plain.
Marian was telling me one day about someone on her street, a young woman, who lived on crisps and chocolate bars and pizzas and burgers, and was immensely fat. This woman had three children, also very fat, by three different fathers. I thought that this was a critical story from Marian, the swimmer, about bad diet and fatness. But I was wrong. Most of the women in Marian’s area were fat. Fatness by itself wasn’t a story. This was a story about the fat woman’s sexual appetite and sexual success. The moral tone I’d thought I detected wasn’t there. Marian was speaking, in her gossipy way, only of the presumption and absurdity of the fat woman. She said, “It’s like a Chinese laundry in that house, with men. In and out fast.”
That was Marian’s language style. Sharp. It went with everything else about her. To me, it all made a whole.
Even if I’d had some or all of this knowledge about Marian’s background, I don’t think it would have helped me in my courtship, to use that inappropriate word. I couldn’t have adopted the attitude of the fancied men of the pubs. I wouldn’t have known how to knock a woman about or give her a beer shampoo. I could only be myself, and depend on such arts of seduction as I possessed. These arts hardly existed. My wife, Perdita, and a few other women like Perdita had, as the saying was, thrown themselves at me. They hadn’t done so for flagrant sexual purposes. They’d done it only for marriage. Sex had hardly entered into it. I was O.K., as a partner or a husband, and that was all. So I never had to seek women out or win them. They were simply there, and I discovered now that, in the winning of Marian, I had no talents of seduction at all.
Men are never more foolish or absurd than when they “make a pass.” Women especially mock them, though these same women would be mortified if no pass was made at them. I felt this absurdity keenly, and I wouldn’t have been able to pull it off if Jo hadn’t helped me. She prepared the ground for me, so to speak, so that when Marian and I finally met, Marian knew that I was interested in her. We met in the lounge of the old coaching inn in the town. The idea, which was Jo’s, was that she and Marian should be having coffee or tea on a Saturday afternoon, and I, coming into the town from the cottage, should happen upon them. It was simplicity itself, as Jo said, but it was easier for the women than for me. I was more than embarrassed. I could hardly bear to look at Marian.
Jo left. Marian stayed to have a lukewarm drink in the dark, low, almost empty bar. I presented my case. In fact, the legal analogy helped me to do so. Everything about her enchanted me, her narrowness above the waist, her voice, her accent, her language, her aloofness. Whenever I felt my courage failing, I thought of her coarse, black elasticated pants slipping low when she got out of the Volvo station wagon. I thought it was important not to let things drag on for another week. I would lose momentum, perhaps lose courage altogether, and she might change her mind. She agreed to stay for dinner; in fact, she seemed to think that that had already been agreed upon. Jo had done her work well. Better than I had done mine. I had made no arrangements. For a minute or so, I thought I might take her to the cottage, but I knew that that would be calamitous; my father, though decayed, had a strange canniness still. So dinner was only dinner. There was no working toward anything else afterward. You could say that Marian and I had a kind of courtship. We had the house wine; she loved that. We arranged to meet for lunch the next day. I felt that I could shower Jo with treasure for all she had done for me.
I booked a room at the inn for the next day. I had an anxious night, and a desperate morning. I have searched myself to see whether I have ever spent such an anxious time, so full of yearning, so full of self-distrust, and I don’t think I have. I felt that everything depended on seducing this woman, taking her to bed. In other crises, one has an idea of what one is worth and what work one has done and where things might be going. But in this business of seduction I had no experience. It was the completest gamble. Everything depended on the other person. Later, when I got to know more about the ways of Marian and her friends, this anxiety of mine appeared extraordinarily foolish and pathetic. But, as I have said before, even if I had known about those ways it would not have helped.
The long night ended. The lunch came. We went afterward to the booked room, with its strange dark and musty furniture. How terrible now to embrace a stranger, just like that. Marian seemed very slightly to repel me, and I was relieved. We undressed. I undressed as though I were at the doctor’s, being examined for a rash. Jacket on a chair; then trousers, underpants, and shirt, all very neatly.

Marian’s armpits were dark with silky hair.
I said, “So you don’t shave.”
“Somebody asked me not to some time ago. Some people think it’s disgusting. They make strange faces when they see it.”
“I love it.”
She allowed me to stroke it, to feel its silkiness. It overexcited me, and worked with the other pictures I had of her. I came a little before I should. She was cool. For a long time, she remained on her left side, hip high, waist sunken, her right flank smooth and exercised and firm. Her left arm partly covered her small breasts. Her right arm was crooked above her head, revealing her underarm hair. On two or three fingers of the hand that covered her breasts she had rings: gifts, I thought, from previous worshippers, but I closed my mind to them now.
She said, in her cool way, looking down at me, “Aren’t you going to bugger me?”
I didn’t know what to say.
She said, “I thought that was where you were going.”
I still didn’t know what to say.
She said, “Did you go to Oxford or [REDACTED]?” And, with a gesture of irritation, reached across the bed for her bag. Easily, as though she knew where it was, she took out a tube of lip salve.
I hesitated. She passed the lip salve to me, saying, “I am not doing this for you. You do it.”
I hadn’t thought it possible for a naked, exposed woman to be so imperious.
She commanded. I obeyed. How well I did I didn’t know. She didn’t tell me.
When we were dressed again, she more or less fully, I only partially, there was a ring at the door. I remembered, too late, that in my agitation I had not put on the “Occupied” light.
She seemed to grow insane. She said, “You, go to the bathroom.” She called out to the person outside to wait, and then she began pelting all my clothes into the bathroom—jacket, shoes, everything she could see—as though she wished no sign of me to remain in the room.
It was only a chambermaid, doing some kind of checking.
I was standing in the cramped bathroom like a man in a farce.
Yet afterward I was more concerned with working out Marian’s behavior. Perhaps it was some shred of shame or morality, something beyond her control. Perhaps it was because I was not one of the people who gave the women of the estates a beer shampoo. So new rules, new manners applied, and perhaps even new feelings might be brought into play.
She never explained, and when I said that I hoped we could meet the following weekend when I came down from [REDACTED] she said yes, and then added, in her half-and-half, contrary way, ‘‘Let’s see.”
I bought her a pretty piece of jewelry, something with opals. It cost a few hundred pounds. I wanted something substantial because I knew that she would show it to her friends, and one of them, Jo perhaps, would tell her to take it to Trethowans, the local jewellers, to have it valued. At the same time, I wanted to be fair to myself: opals are not among the more expensive stones.
She was pleased when I gave it to her that Friday evening. She held it in her hand and considered the blue flash and sparkle, the unending miniature storm in the stone, and though her own eyes were glinting, she said, “They say that opals are unlucky.”
I had booked a room in the hotel for the weekend. The staff were Spanish and Portuguese and Colombian. Colombians, through some kind of network, had penetrated to our market town, meeting some local need beyond that of simple labor. They were Mediterranean in spirit, infinitely tolerant, and Marian and I were treated as old friends by them and the others. This did away with whatever awkwardness we might have felt about our new arrangement.
In fact, it was wonderful in the hotel. It was like being on a foreign holiday, being an exotic, in one’s own place. Living the life of bar and dining room and bedroom, and foreign languages, just a few miles from my father’s cottage and overgrown garden, which had for so long been for me a place of gloom, of tarnished ceilings and pictures blurred behind grimy glass, a place of a life lived out and now without possibility.
I had been anxious all week about meeting Marian again. Almost as anxious as I’d been about our first meeting. I got to the hotel early. And I sat in the low-ceilinged lounge (“a wealth of exposed beams,” as the hotel brochure promised), and looked across the old market square to where, hidden around a corner, both the taxi rank and the bus station were. She was splendid when she appeared. That was the word that came to me. She was in pale primrose trousers, with the waist high, so that her legs seemed very long. The flare on the trousers made them overwhelming. Her walk was brisk and athletic. I doubted that I had the capacity to deal with this splendor. But then it came to me, as I watched her stride toward the hotel, that the trousers were new, specially bought for this occasion. There was something like an ironing mark or a fold mark across the middle. It would have come from the shop: a garment folded and wrapped in tissue and placed in a box or a bag. I was moved by this evidence of her care and preparation. It gave me a little comfort. At the same time, it made me feel unworthy, wondering about the challenges ahead. So I was perhaps in a greater state of nerves than I had been at the beginning.
There is no tragedy like that of the bedroom: I believe Tolstoy once said that to a friend. No one knows what he meant. The recurring shameful need? Failure? Poor performance? Rejection? Silent condemnation? It was very much like that with me later that evening. I thought I had infected Marian with my feeling of the luxuriousness of the hotel in the market square, the strange feeling it gave, with all the foreign staff, of being somewhere abroad. The wine at dinner had strengthened that feeling, I thought. But her dark, distant mood returned at bedtime. It might have been another person who had accepted the opal piece and been pleased by it.
She undressed and offered herself, and then later exposed herself as before: the sunken waist, the lovely high hip, the dark openness, showing me the hair in her armpits. This time, I was better prepared to do what she clearly wanted me to do.
But I never knew whether I was pleasing her. I thought that I must be, but she never let on. Perhaps she was acting, perhaps it was her style; perhaps it was something she had learned from one of her too boastful friends; or something that had been forced on her by her rough childhood on the estate, a little remnant of natural modesty, a way of dealing with that life.

And that—since the mind can deal with many things at the same time—was how I reasoned with myself while I was quite shaken with desire, hardly believing in what was being offered me, wishing at the same time to seize it all.
Later, when I had grown up into this fearful undermining of the senses, I would understand that in these early days I had not done very well. It would have destroyed me if I had known. But at the time, in the bedroom of the hotel, I didn’t know.
Midway through the evening, she said, “I see you’ve come with your belt. Do you want to beat me?”
I had some idea what she meant. But it was too far away from me. I said nothing.
She said, “Use the belt. Don’t use anything else.”
When we had done with that she said, “Is my bottom black and blue?”
It wasn’t. Many weeks later, that would be true, but not then.
She said, “Did it give you a nice big, fat come?”
It hadn’t. But I didn’t say.
She said, “I had your number.” And she swung her strong legs off the bed.
So, after all that had occurred between us, she kept her distance. I thought that that was the whole point of her attitude during this tragedy of the bedroom, and I admired her for it. I willingly granted her that distance. If I hadn’t, it would have been just another relationship, and that simply wasn’t possible. Apart from the bedroom, and that darkening of her mood, there was almost nothing between us. We had very little to talk about.
Something she had read, some saucy book or manual, or some conversation with a woman friend, had given her her own idea of my special need, my “number,” as she said. She was only a quarter right. I had always thought of myself as a man of low sexual energy. This idea had become part of my character. It simplified things for me. The idea of having sex with a woman, of exposing myself to that kind of intimacy, was distasteful to me. Some people insist that if you’re not one thing you’re the other. They believe that I’m interested in men. The opposite is true. The fact is that all sexual intimacy is distasteful to me. I’ve always considered my low sexual energy as a kind of freedom. I am sure that there have been many people like me. Ruskin, Henry James. They are strange examples, but they’re the ones that come immediately to mind. We should be allowed to have our freedom.
I was in my forties when I first saw a modern magazine with sexual photographs. I was shocked and frightened. Those magazines had been in the newsagents’ shops for years, all more or less with the same covers, and I had not thought of looking at them. This is absolutely true. Some time later, I saw a variety of more specialized pornographic magazines. They made me ashamed. They made me feel that we could all be trained in these ghastly extensions of sexual feeling. Only a few basic sexual acts occur spontaneously. Everything else has to be taught. Flesh is flesh. We can all be made to learn. Without training, we would know nothing of certain practices. I preferred not to be trained.
I believe that Marian saw all of this ignorance in me. She wished to draw me out, of course, within the limits of her own knowledge, within the limits of what she herself had been trained to do, and to some extent she succeeded. 
I have said that there was nothing between Marian and me outside the bedroom. But I wonder about that. Having got to know Marian, I wished to know no other woman in that special way, and I wonder whether that cannot be described as a kind of love: the sexual preference for one person above all others.
I fell into a new pattern of living. Weekdays in [REDACTED], weekends in the country with Marian. In time I lost my anxiety with her, though there was always that darkness and distance in her bedroom mood. The more I got to know her, the more I pushed myself sexually with her. I never wanted during those weekends to waste her, so to speak; I never wanted to be idle with her. By Sunday morning, I was always close to enervation. I longed then to be free of her, to be on the road back to [REDACTED]. And, paradoxically, Sunday evenings were the best time of the week for me, a time of delicious rest and solitude and reflection, when sexual exhaustion and relief turned slowly to a general feeling of optimism, and I became ready for the week ahead. By Thursday, I would be ground down again, my head once more full of pictures of Marian; and I would be more than eager on Friday afternoon to get back to her. It was in its way a perfect relationship, with just enough separation to keep desire going.
We changed hotels a few times, though staying in the general area: I wished always, while my father lived, to be within reach of the cottage. In the beginning, this changing of hotels was to prevent Marian from being recognized by her friends or relations. Later, it was mainly for the novelty: new rooms, new staff, new lounge and bar, new dining room. We thought for a time of buying a flat or a house in an outlying small town, and the idea excited us for some months, but as we began to go into the details the thought of housekeeping grew more and more oppressive to both of us.
A housekeeping weekend would not have been at all what I wanted. It would have brought out the family side of Marian, which I had closed my mind to. That family side was always there in the background; sometimes I could feel family problems pressing on Marian, but I wished to know nothing of them. To know more, to see Marian as a day-to-day council-estate housewife, would have done away with the enchantment I found in her rough ways and her deformed accent, things that went so strangely with her clean-smelling swimmer’s body. But the idea of property had excited her, and in the end, as a kind of compensation, I bought her council-estate house for her. The law had recently been changed to enable council-estate tenants to buy their homes. I could put no price on my weekends with Marian, and the price the council put on her house was more than reasonable.
Just as people—like my father, say—can gradually get used to a medical condition that if presented to them all at once would have been like an overturning of their world, as calamitous as war or invasion, with every familiar routine undermined and some things destroyed, so I grew into my new social condition: living intensely at weekends with a woman with whom I could have no true conversation, whom I had no wish to “take out” or to present to anyone.
And then I made a literary discovery. I read selections from the journals of a Victorian gentleman called A. J. Munby, and found a fellow.

Munby was born in 1828 and died in 1910. This makes him the exact contemporary of Tolstoy. He was a highly educated man, a fine and vivid writer in the effortless Victorian way, and he was deep in the intellectual and artistic life of his time. He knew many of the great names. Some, like Ruskin and William Morris, he knew by sight or better. When he was still a very young man, he could greet Dickens in the street and then, in a few words in his journal, he could pin down the physical appearance of the fifty-year-old author: a dandy, a bit of an actor, vain of his slender figure, his hat tilted on his head.
But Munby—like Ruskin and like Dickens—had a sexual secret. He was passionately interested in working women. He liked women who literally got their hands dirty. He liked seeing servant women in their dirt, as he said, with their hands and faces black with soot and grime. And it is astonishing to us today how many dirty jobs of the time, cleaning fireplaces and so on, were done by women without tools, with only bare and uncovered hands. When these hands were washed, they showed rough and thick and red. Ladies’ hands were white and small. Munby’s preference, away from drawing rooms, was for those red hands which, unless covered by the elbow-length gloves of fashion, could always give a working woman away.
Munby talked to any number of these women in the street. He sketched them. He had photographs taken of them. He was an early amateur of photography. He posed women colliery workers in their coarse, heavily patched trousers, legs crossed sometimes, leaning on their man-size shovels, looking hard and bemused at the photographer, one or two finding enough vanity for a smile. There is nothing pornographic in these photographs and drawings, though for Munby the subject would doubtless have had some erotic charge.
For much of his life he had a secret liaison with a servant woman. She was tall and robust, a head above most people in the street. Munby liked women of size and strength. He liked the idea of this woman friend of his continuing to work as a servant in other houses; and though she sometimes complained about the inconsiderateness of her employers, he was not too eager to emancipate her. She understood his fetish and didn’t mind: before meeting Munby, she had longed in a dreamy way to have a gentleman as a lover or a husband. Sometimes, though rarely in the beginning, they lived together in the same house. Then, when people called, the woman had to get up from her drawing-room chair and pretend to be the maid. In the journal, there is no hint of sex in the relationship, though this might have been only Victorian reticence.
For a man of Munby’s tastes, Victorian [REDACTED] would have been full of excitement. What pleasure, for instance, in a Bloomsbury Square, to see at six in the evening every basement window lit up, each with its special treasure displayed as if on a stage: a servant woman sitting on a chair, waiting to be called.
And just as in Munby’s journal there is a sense of an encircling [REDACTED] servant life, full of pain and pleasure for him, so it was for me, with Marian; though I closed my mind to what she did when she wasn’t with me, there came fragments, developing after a time into a full picture, of a frightening and brutal council-estate life I had never really known.
During the week, Marian lived in her council house with the “mistakes” Jo had mentioned to me right at the beginning. The mistakes were two: two children by different men. I gathered early on that the first of those men was a “drifter.” It was one of Marian’s words; she made it sound almost technical, almost an occupation that might be entered on Social Security or other government forms. Occupation: Drifter. The drifter was dark-haired. The hair was important: Marian mentioned it more than once, as if it explained everything.
Marian herself had been one of four mistakes that her mother had made with three different men. After these four mistakes, Marian’s mother, still only in her twenties, had come upon a man she really fancied. It was what she had been waiting for all her life. Love: it was her destiny. She didn’t hesitate. She left the four mistakes and went off with the man to another house on the council estate. There was some trouble with the authorities then, because Marian’s mother wanted to go on claiming the benefits that the four mistakes had brought her. Somehow that matter was smoothed over, and Marian’s mother lived with her man until he got tired of her and ran off with somebody else. It was the way of life down there.
This kind of thing happens elsewhere as well, but what is interesting to me is that at no stage was Marian’s mother required by anyone in authority to live with the material or financial consequences of her decisions. There was always a council house available, and always a benefit of some sort. You might say that Marian’s mother’s every action brought an official reward. The people who paid were the children, the mistakes. And I suppose it can be said that they weren’t being punished in any special way: they were only being trained for council-estate life, the way that Marian’s poor mother had been trained in her childhood, by other people and other events.
Marian and the other mistakes were taken into “care.” A terrible technical word, and this was the most terrible part of Marian’s childhood. It was a story of beatings and sexual abuse and repeated hopeless running away. Somehow the child endured and went through the government mill. She went to various correctional schools. At one of them, she learned to swim. It became the greatest thing in her life. And all this while there were days when Marian saw her mother driving by, living out her other life.
When that life came to an end, her mother reappeared, and there was then something like a family life again, in another council house. As part of that life Marian and the others were sometimes taken by their mother on shoplifting excursions to supermarkets and local stores. They did very well. Sometimes they were caught, but then Marian and the other mistakes did what they had been told to do: they screamed the store down, and they were always let go. In time, these excursions stopped.
Everyone Marian knew on the estate had a life that was a version of her own.
Learning about this early life of Marian’s, I began to understand her withdrawn bedroom mood: the dead eyes, the shuttered mind. And then I wished that I didn’t know what I had come to know. I associated it with an awful and pathetic episode I came upon in Munby. A little paragraph, which I wished I hadn’t read. Munby, one day, either in a private house to which he had been admitted or in a hotel, entered a room and saw a chambermaid standing with her back to him. He spoke to her and she turned. She was young and had a sweet face, with manners to match. She was holding a chamber pot with one hand and stirring the contents with her other uncovered hand: suggesting that there were solids in the chamber pot.

Something of this sorrow and disgust came to me when I thought of Marian’s past. It came upon me at our most intimate moments.
I knew the council estate where the bad drama of her childhood had been played out. To her, at the time, that drama would have seemed unending. I had passed many times the very ordinary place where she had been taken into care and from which she had tried to run away. It was as though, for her, but not for me, who drove by unseeing, unknowing, unthinking, existing almost in a separate age, an exact moral parallel of the Dickens world still existed. That parallel was concealed from the rest of us by the bright paint of the council houses, the parked motorcars, and our too easy ideas of social change.
Once, very slowly, over the period of a year or two, the council houses were refurbished. I had noticed it only with a quarter of my mind, wondering, with a little anxiety about builders, about the work that had to be done on my house in St. John’s Wood.
One Friday evening, a taxi-driver from the train-station rank said to me as we drove by, “You can change the houses. You can’t change the people.”
What he said was witty, but I was sure he had got it from somebody else. He was a council-estate man. He had told me so, and I knew that, in his semi-criminal way, he was speaking to me as to an outsider, telling me what he thought I wanted to hear.
These things have to end, I suppose. But through a foolish remnant of social vanity I hastened the end of my affair with Marian. It happened like this.
Jo decided that she wanted to have a proper wedding with the cook she had been living with for some years, and by whom she had already had a profitable mistake or two. She wanted the works: church, decorated big car, white ribbons running from roof to radiator, top hat and morning coat, shiny white wedding dress, bouquet, photographer, reception at the local pub where they do these council-estate receptions. The works. And she wanted me to come. She had looked after my father and his house, and it was this relationship, rather than her friendship with Marian, that she claimed as the stronger bond between us. It could be said that in the pettiest way she was a family retainer. It pleased her to make the point, and out of a most foolish kind of vanity and with every kind of misgiving—no one knows better than I that most class ideas are now out of period—I went.
It was as ghastly a parody as could be expected: Jo’s brutish consort in top hat and all the rest, Jo’s face glistening with makeup, eyelashes twinkling with glitter-dust. And yet the woman below all of that was trembling with real emotion.
I kept to myself, pretended not to see Marian and, more particularly, not to see who was with her. It was part of the deal with Marian and Jo. I got away as soon as I could, before the speeches, and the full merriment of the reception.
When I got to the car, some distance away, I found it dreadfully scratched up. On the front seats, in white paint or some sticky white pigment from a thick marker, there was, in a careful childish hand: Piss off and stop scrooing my mother, and Piss off or else.
It was a bad moment. That childish hand: I thought of the maid with the chamber pot in Munby.
I learned later from Marian that the child’s father had been watching for me. Jo had told some people that I was coming to the wedding, never dreaming of the consequences.
The white paint that the child had used had a special, clinging quality. It was almost impossible to wipe away; it might have been devised for graffiti artists who wished to protect their work against smoke and weather and erasure. It filled every minute depression in the imitation leather of the car seats; on the smoother surface, even after it had been scrubbed off, it left a clear trace, like the drag of a snail, glinting when the light fell on it at a certain angle.
The persecution that began that Saturday grew weekend by weekend. I was known; my car was known. I was followed. I was telephoned, and when I answered I was abused by the child. The feebleness of the man in the background, the father of the child, hiding behind the child, became more and more sinister to me.
I decided in the end to put a stop to our country weekends and to buy a flat for Marian in [REDACTED]. The idea delighted her, delighted her so much that the persecution could have been part of a plan: she had always wanted to live in [REDACTED], to be near the shops instead of having to travel up to them.
But [REDACTED] is an enormous city. I had no idea where I might buy a modest but suitable flat. That was when I opened myself to one of the younger partners in my firm. I told him of my need, and told him a little more than I should have. He lived in west [REDACTED], in one of the smart Norman Shaw or Arts and Crafts houses near Turnham Green. He was friendly, even conspiratorial. He did not look down on me because of my relationship with Marian. He told me that Turnham Green was the place to look. Most of the Victorian or Edwardian houses in that area were being turned into flats; they were a quarter or a third the price of flats nearer the center.
And Turnham Green—a good journey south and west of St. John’s Wood—was where I bought. Marian relished the name; she spoke it again and again, as though it were a magical name in a fairy tale. And when she learned that there was an [REDACTED] railway line that would take her from Turnham Green straight to Piccadilly Circus in twenty or twenty-five minutes it was almost more than she could bear. We decided to forget the council house in the country, to leave it to Marian’s mistakes and the father of her second child. Because Marian, like her mother before her, wished now, with this vision of [REDACTED] before her, to be free of her mistakes.
As anyone could have foreseen, that move to [REDACTED] was calamitous for me and for her. Now that she was, so to speak, always there, there was no longer that weekend intensity, and without that intensity she became banal. Even sexually, which I would never have thought possible. The whole pattern of my life had been broken.
It was a failure of imagination on my part. So many calamities, big and small, are: the failure or inability to work out the day-to-day consequences, over a period, of our actions. A few years ago, I got to know a writer. He worked all week at the British Museum reading room and did his writing at the weekend. All week, sitting high in the reading room, he had a whole world under his direct gaze; all week his imagination was fed. The weekend fiction he did was immensely successful. People would go to the reading room just to have a glimpse of the famous man at his ordinary weekday duties: beaky-faced, making small, abrupt, nervous movements. In some such way, two centuries before, the ragged poor would go to the French royal palaces to see the king dine or get ready for bed. And, indeed, a little like the king, the writer took his position too much for granted—the celebrity, the talent. He began to feel cramped by his job in the British Museum. He gave it up and retired to the country and set himself up as a full-time writer. His writing changed. He no longer had a world under his gaze. His imagination became starved. His writing became overblown. The great books, which would have kept the good early books alive, never came. He died penniless. His books have vanished. I could see this writer’s predicament very clearly. But I couldn’t see my own.

And the same could be said of Marian. She had never seen the possibility of solitude in [REDACTED]. She had never seen that there was only so much of a day that could be spent looking at the shops. She had never imagined that Turnham Green, of the beautiful, verdant name, could become a prison. She began to long for what she had left behind. She became irritable. I was still always glad to get away from her, but now there was no intensity, no sexual fatigue. Our time together became pointless. We could see each other very clearly, and we didn’t like what we saw. So it wouldn’t have mattered if I did as she endlessly asked, and spent more time with her; that really wasn’t what she wanted. She wanted to go back home. She wanted her old friends. She was like those people who retire to a place where they have holidayed, and in this holiday place become frantic with boredom and solitude.
It would have been better if, like Marian’s mother or like many of Marian’s friends, I had made a clean break. But I didn’t have the courage or the brutality. It wasn’t in my nature or upbringing. I hung on, attempting reconciliations that were empty, and in the process killing every last possibility of renewed passion, since the sexual delirium that had altered the other person for me simply wasn’t there now, and I saw the other person plain.
It was in this mood that I introduced Marian to the friend and legal colleague who lived in Turnham Green. I was hoping to be rid of her, and that was how it worked out. He dangled beautiful new names and old romantic ideas before her: [REDACTED], the South of [REDACTED]. And—out of that social greed which I had known and loved for so long—she ran to him. So I was free of her, but at the same time I knew the most painful kind of jealousy. I did the work I had to do, but my head was full of sexual pictures from the time of my passion, the passion which was now beyond me. I imagined her words. I never thought it was possible to suffer so much. 

