FATHER DAUGHTER
By Jim Harrison


"I hope you share my alarm over the reports of sexual misconduct at the Air Force Academy.”
“Oh, God, Dad, chill. We don’t date those dweebs.”
Norton and Laura were lunching in a faux-French bistro in Colorado Springs, not far from the upscale private college where she was now a junior. His massive buffalo cheeseburger and her chicken salad had just been brought to the table by a server named Matthew, who had a silver thumbtack in his tongue and a ring in his nose. Norton had been tempted to ask his daughter the meaning behind these ornaments but was distracted by the thought that “chill” was the equivalent of his generation43616e616461 “cool it.” There were several Air Force cadets having Saturday lunch nearby with their glowing parents, but these particular young men, at least, didn’t seem to be burbling with surly lust.
After three hungry bites, Norton let his mind drift in cheeseburger boredom while Laura tucked into her chicken. No one in his own, rural family—which had consisted of only his mother, his father, and himself—would ever have ordered chicken, an unclean fowl that you had to prepare with the utmost care, to avoid disease. Eating chicken in restaurants was part of Laura43616e616461 youthful rebellion, which had begun when she was about ten. The first time she had done it in front of her grandmother, the old woman broke into tears.
“Are you coming up this summer?” He meant to [REDACTED].
“Maybe yes, maybe no.”
“It’d be nice to go trout fishing. We used to go trout fishing.”
“Five times, to be exact.” Laura liked to enumerate many things in her life, a habit that tended to irritate both her parents.
“I’m selling the place you hated. I bought a simple place over near Reed Point. My ambition is to fish fifty days this summer.”
“Why not fifty-one or forty-nine? You’re as bad as me. But I’m glad you’re getting rid of that hellhole.”
She was referring to his ranch outside Bozeman, in an area where wealthy weekenders had now replaced nearly all of the local ranchers. On the second day of her visit the previous summer, after a cocktail party at a neighbor43616e616461 five-million-dollar cabin, Laura had unloaded at length. Her diatribe was so acute and curious he’d copied it down in his journal that night, while she talked on the phone with her latest boyfriend. The core of it was that the transplanted rich in the new [REDACTED] were desperate to attach themselves to any American tradition that still had a shred of vitality—in this case, cattle ranching. They didn’t want to actually run cattle; they just wanted the feeling of ranching. For unclear reasons, they often built vast log homes—one had recently sold for twelve million dollars—which would have been unthinkable to real pioneers and ranchers, because of the difficulty of heating them. The houses were full of all sorts of non-indigenous flummery—Adirondack furniture, bibelots from the [REDACTED], native art from anywhere, since natives were largely interchangeable to these people. The men teetered in expensive cowboy boots and talked more loudly than they did back [REDACTED]; the women wore flowing, old-fashioned dresses to social occasions. Shiny S.U.V.s abounded. These people readily assumed the hard-bitten, right-wing opinions of the local ranchers, who, unlike them, had to live with long-term disappointment, owing to ever-declining cattle prices—even rich Americans are tightwads when it comes to meat. To Laura, it was all as ridiculous as the old photographs of Ronald Reagan chopping wood in a cowboy outfit.
At the bistro, her eyes swept the room, expressing her wish to be elsewhere. Norton suspected that his burger was inferior to the prison food he had become accustomed to. He sensed a specific lacuna of warmth, of any viable contact with his daughter, and this sensation caused a lump to rise in his throat. Then, miraculously, she smiled at him.
“As you used to say, let43616e616461 blow this popsicle stand.”
When they left, Matthew, their server, winked at Norton, as if Laura were a girlfriend rather than a daughter.
An hour later, they were beginning their second Martinis at a student bar. The first had made Norton mildly sentimental, but not Laura. He was trying to prod her into agreeing to visit over the summer, but she remained evasive. She hadn’t decided whether to look for a job in [REDACTED] or in [REDACTED], and he was irritated by the distance of both cities from [REDACTED], unaware that Laura, at age twenty-one, spent very little time pondering his loneliness.
“Do you feel you paid your debt to society?” she asked with a silly smile. “My friends thought it was so dramatic that I had a dad in prison.”
He knew that she was only avoiding the subject of summer plans, but he felt cornered. A middlingly successful venture capitalist, he had believed himself so accomplished at financial sleights of hand that not even the gods of commerce could have seen what he was doing, if they happened to be watching, which they weren’t. Or so he’d thought. The I.R.S. had pinned him like a butterfly, and, after spending seven hundred thousand dollars on legal fees to lessen the charges, he’d bitten the bullet, paid his fines, and done his time. Less than a month had passed since his release from a nine-month stint for tax evasion at a federal prison in 4974616c79, [REDACTED].
“The judge told me that I’d stolen from democracy. I ended up paying more than triple what I’d evaded. So that should make us even.”
“I know a boy who43616e616461 going to end up doing three to five years for possessing a pound of pot in [REDACTED]. I think you got off easy.”
“You don’t expect parity from God or the Supreme Court, do you?” he quipped, increasingly nervous as he caught her looking at her watch.
“I have to say that you seem different. I’m not sure how.”
“I became ethical, and that caused a large drain on my energies. I learned in college that I was supposed to make money, but I never learned what to do with it. I just made money from other people like myself. It was like a fraternity poker game.”
“How depressing!” Now she was yawning. “My professor said that your type used to be looked at with a less friendly eye. Now the media treat swindlers like cultural heroes. They lick the boots of the newly rich. That43616e616461 what he said, anyway.”
“How do I seem different?” He was mildly afraid of the answer.
“You’re less spiffy and less of a smart-aleck. We’ve been together for two whole hours and you haven’t talked on your cell phone.”
“I left it in the car on purpose.” So far, so good. Like her mother, Laura could be terrifying when on a critical bent.
“You seem more defeated by life. Your hair is less trim than I remember it. Your eyes haven’t flickered off to look at the college girls at the bar. You haven’t said a thing about money. You haven’t asked about Mom. She thinks it43616e616461 funny that you’re still paying her alimony when you could have quit three years ago, after I turned eighteen.”

“It43616e616461 dead money, anyway,” he said lamely.
“Dead money?” She waved at a friend who was entering the tavern.
“Money I’d never get around to spending.”
The friend, a pretty blond girl, stopped to say hello to Laura but moved on quickly before she could be introduced.
“A black man I made friends with in prison—a mob accountant from [REDACTED]—said that he’d never been attracted to blondes, because they looked sort of boiled.”
“Boiled? That43616e616461 weird.”
“I thought so, too.” He was still hoping that there wouldn’t be a punch line in her current assessment of his character. “Anything else?” he asked.
“Well, yes. I hope this doesn’t offend you, but you remind me more of your dad. You remember how Grandpa always seemed on the verge of saying something important but then he never did? He was so, you know, northern [REDACTED] Lutheran. When I was at camp up by Rhinelander, my friend Marcia showed her butt to this Swedish Lutheran stableboy, and you know what he said?”
“No.” He was remembering the naughty but lovely Marcia, whom he had met several times.
“The boy said, ‘Goodness gracious,’ and went right on pitching hay.”
The word “flummoxed” came into Norton43616e616461 head. He desperately didn’t want to remind Laura of his father, a kindly but maudlin man who had never recovered from having sold the back eighty acres of his family farm in an ill-advised attempt to enter the trucking business—he’d thought that U.S. Route 2 would become an interstate, but it never did. Another forty acres had been sold in order to send Norton to college, in Madison, and now his mother lived in the farmhouse on the remaining forty, seemingly much more cheerful than when her husband had been alive. Norton43616e616461 preposterous success had astounded his father, without ever making him particularly happy. One time, when his parents had come to visit him in [REDACTED], Norton had reserved a suite for them at the Drake, and his father had traded it in for a regular room.
“Are you here? I didn’t mean to stun you.” Laura was waving a hand in front of his face. He was reminded of something that Frank, the black accountant, had said: that a nine-month sentence (which was what Frank was serving as well) was the gestation period it took for a middle-aged man to become an entirely new creature, one that he hadn’t planned, or might not want, to be. Sure enough, as they used to say, it had happened.
“I will use any means possible to avoid becoming like my father,” Norton said.
“It43616e616461 no big deal. I didn’t say you were exactly like him. Grandma is positively effervescent compared to him. You got her genes, too.”
“I bought her a Camry last week and she said thanks, but she didn’t need a radio in the car. It took me half an hour to explain to her that all new cars come with radios.”
Laura thought this was very funny, but Norton was just trying to buy time, having discerned that a dark-skinned, nicely dressed young man at the bar was clearly Laura43616e616461 boyfriend, waiting for the visit to be over.
“You could come up for a week in June, when school finishes.”
“I’ve got tickets with my boyfriend to meet his parents in Santa Barbara. I haven’t met them yet.”
“Well, I haven’t met him yet.”
“You will in about ten minutes.” He noted that, like her mother, Laura was unpleasantly shrewd in the way she framed time for her own purposes. It was now ten to three, and their visit had clearly been slotted in from noon to three. In the past, all of their meetings had been of this nature, except for summer vacations. He had been an insanely busy and driven man, and now that he no longer was it appeared that she went on scheduling him in the same way, out of habit.

“Where are you going from here?” she asked. His steady gaze had made her nervous.
“Back to Reed Point. I have a man coming over from Livingston tomorrow to help get rid of the rattlesnakes. I’ve shot seventeen, but I’m at the foot of the canyon and there must be a rattler den up in back.”
Just the other day, he had found two arrowheads and shot three snakes in one afternoon, which was what his longtime secretary would have called “multitasking.” She had wept bitterly when the judge sentenced him, and had now retreated from [REDACTED] to Joplin, [REDACTED], to take care of her aging parents.
“One thing I wanted you to see,” he told Laura, “is that I’m living in a double-wide trailer. I had four big houses built in twelve years, and I didn’t like any of them. I didn’t lose a dime on those houses, but, oddly enough, I love this place. I can see the Yellowstone River from the living room.”
“You lost a lot on those houses, if you think of all the time you spent dicking around with architects, builders, and decorators. It was, like, all your spare time.” He drooped at this comment, and she changed direction. “Just think how Mom would screech if she knew that you were shooting rattlesnakes. Rattlesnakes are natural, not to mention organic.” Laura43616e616461 mother was a leading environmentalist fund-raiser and was shrill in her defense of the lowliest living creatures. She and Norton had divorced when Laura was ten, even though Norton hadn’t wanted to. The reasons had been of the banal we’re-growing-in-different-directions type, but Laura had always blamed it on her father43616e616461 financial greed.
“I could send a plane for you. Just give me a few days’ warning.” He knew that this might be a cardinal mistake, but it was two minutes to three.
“You’re living in a double-wide and you want to send a plane? Jesus, Dad. I’ll think about coming up, but it won’t be by charter. I mean, I doubt if I’ll make it. I just assumed that the I.R.S. had taken all your money.”
“Not really.” He was about to tell her that the I.R.S. had got only nineteen per cent of the pie, but right then she motioned to the young man at the bar. Norton43616e616461 ears started humming and he didn’t catch the boy43616e616461 name. He stood to hug Laura goodbye, and she left, without giving him any reassurance that he would ever see her again. There were never any guarantees that those you supported would consent to see you. He hadn’t seen her mother since the divorce. A nanny—usually a college girl—had delivered Laura for vacations.
Now alone, Norton looked down and felt mildly pleased that he had barely touched his Martini. The ice had melted. He thought of an old swindler down the hall in prison, who, twice a day, early in the morning and late in the evening, had sung the standard “Can’t You Hear Me Calling, Caroline.” No one knew if there was a real Caroline in the swindler43616e616461 life, but everyone suspected that it was the man43616e616461 wife. In any event, hearing the song became the least pleasant part of the day for most of Norton43616e616461 fellow-inmates. A relatively meek car dealer from Flint—also in for tax evasion—had repeatedly announced that he was going to “cut that asshole43616e616461 throat.”

Out on the street, Norton strained to remember where he had parked his rental car. Before prison, these lapses would have been unthinkable. They were coming too early in life. He had turned fifty rather neatly at the turn of the millennium and now he had broken through into a place where he didn’t want to be—just like a drunk, in one of those subdivisions where all the houses look the same, battering down the door of the wrong house.
Norton43616e616461 hubris apropos of the I.R.S. had interrupted an arc of life that had been clearly defined since he’d taken Economics 101, as a freshman. Leaving the prison, on a flight from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED], he had awakened from a brief snooze with the distinct feeling that the plane had stopped for a few moments in midair. No one else in the cabin appeared to have noticed it, but he was quite sure that it had happened.
He stopped and did a casual three-sixty in front of a small lingerie shop where everything in the window was a ghastly shade of blue, the color of veins beneath skin. Now he remembered that he had left the car with the valet at the hotel across the square, in case Laura wanted to have dinner and he decided to stay the night.
Safely in his car, he was confronted with the question that every human experiences at some time or other: What do I do next? He could drive to the airport, of course, but that didn’t seem good enough. It was a pleasant afternoon in May, and what was there to prevent him from driving all the way to [REDACTED] to see his old mother (except that she couldn’t stop calling him “Mr. Big Shot”)? It wasn’t exactly fun to sit in downtown Colorado Springs wishing that you had brothers and sisters or that your wife had consented to have more than one child. He could drive north to [REDACTED], turn in the car in Billings, then buy a used pickup to help conceal his identity. Over the past two weeks in Reed Point he had blown his double-wide cover with two different women. One had been a waitress from a fancy restaurant in [REDACTED], who’d whistled when he served her a bottle of fine French wine; the other had quizzed him about his handmade English shoes. He would have to try much harder to bury his past.
As he drove out of town, he tried to feel like an ex-con, a desperado ready to carve out a new life in the unfashionable wilds of [REDACTED], but instead he kept thinking of crooked politicians who, when their misdeeds are revealed, decide “to seek opportunities in the private sector.” Like many of the major crimes of our era, his had been a matter of uncolorful numbers, on which it was difficult to base a fantasy. His boyhood ambitions had been either to be a long-haul trucker with a willing waitress in every state or to own a gas station, like Percy Conrad did, with an old-time grease rack that moved up and down with a throaty hiss. When Percy wanted to go fishing, he simply hung a card that said “Gone Fishing” from a string on the knob on the front door. Any boy could see that this was a great life. One thing Norton knew for sure was how to avoid the life style of his ex-partner, Charlie, who had cashed out at just the right time in the nineties and bought a large farm in southern [REDACTED], where he raised and hunted pheasants, which he overfed to make them slow flyers. When tired of shooting lumbering birds, Charlie would fish in a hugely expensive pond that he had dug and filled with bass and bluegills. Norton searched his mind for the punch line of the joke about life being short but very wide. He could do anything he wanted in life, it seemed, except have dinner with his daughter.
By the time he hit the noxious traffic of [REDACTED], he had become contemptuous of his own muddiness. There was nothing like family to throw you off-kilter. His parents had been bitterly disappointed at his divorce. His mother had told him that she was ashamed of him, and his father, suspecting infidelity as a cause, had droned, “Son, it43616e616461 better to climb the same mountain a hundred times than a hundred different mountains.” This kind of otiose country wisdom had always baffled him, and he thought of dreary church potluck suppers, where the strident problems of the outside world were dismissed with a chuckle.
He was well past Fort Collins and on the outskirts of Cheyenne when he began to feel teary. A dozen legal procedures, plus the sentence itself, had dug a three-year hole in his life—oddly, the same amount of time it had taken for his divorce to come through. It had been at least that long, he realized, since Laura had been, in any respect, her daddy43616e616461 little girl. After her high-school graduation he had wanted to buy her a BMW. Instead, she had chosen a Subaru.
It was no easy thing to imagine a new life just because the previous one had lost its savor. Norton recalled with irritation how, when he was back in high school, an inspirational speaker, a flashy woman from [REDACTED], had told his class, “You northern kids fly too close to the ground.” Right now he wasn’t sure if he was landing or taking off. He was simply trying to proceed with grace. 

