 IN  THE  PALACE  OF  THE  END  BY  MARTIN  AMIS    As  one  of  the  doubles  of  the  son  of  the  dictator,  I  am  often  to  be  found  in  the  Palace  of  the  End.  Six  days  a  week,  to  be  precise:  and  twelve  hours  a  day.  Actual  public  impersonations  of  the  successor-parades,  investitures,  going  on  television,  and  the  like-are  by  now  a  thing  of  the  past.  But  we  haveour  standing  duties.  In  the  mornings,  I  set  about  my  work  in  the  Interrogation  Wing.  Then,  in  the  afternoons,  follow-  ing  a  glass  of  scented  coffee  with  the  other  doubles,  I  make  filmed  love  to-  or  have  filmed  sex  with-a  series  of  picked  beauties  in  the  Recreation  Wing.  The  Palace  of  the  End  is  built  in  the  shape  of  a  titanic  eagle:  the  beaked  head  downturned,  the  scalloped  pinions  out-  thrust.  ..  .  It  was  the  brainchild  of  Old  Nadir,  who  is  very  slowly  dying  of  the  injuries  he  sustained  in  the  notorious  &quot;toilet  bomb&quot;  assault  at  another  of  his  palaces,  in  the  south  of  our  country.  And  now  all  power  rests  with  his  only  son:  Nadir  the  Next.  Until  recently,  at  least,  my  work  in  the  Interrogation  Wing  was  not  par-  ticularly  onerous.  I  wasn't  obliged  to  participate  in  the  full  course  of  the  nu-  merous  procedures.  My  job  was  to&quot;ap-  pear,&quot;  super  suddenly,  at  the  climax  of  this  or  that  cross-questioning  (which  might  have  gone  on  for  days  or  weeks);  flanked  by  armed  infantrymen,  I  would  stamp  into  the  cubicle,  wearing  cam-  ouflage  fatigues  and  cripplingly  heavy  combat  boots,  and  administer  one  back-  hand  blow  to  the  suspect's  face.  And  that  was  all.  But  nowadays,  for  several  reasons,  I  am  expected,  as  are  the  other  doubles,  to  apply  myself  more  variedly.  We  have  not  exactly  been  reduced  to  the  status  of  mere  bucket  boys  and  poker-warmers-no;  but  in  thesetense  times  we  must  put  ourselves  about  and  show  willing.  The  interior  of  the  Interrogation  Wing  used  to  be  laid  out  in  the  tradi-  tional  &quot;cells  and  cellars&quot;  arrangement:  _  dripping  passageways,  clanking  iron  &lt;  doors,  rooms  within  rooms  (&quot;the  ken-  O  nels&quot;),  and  so  on-with  the  howls  and  s  Caer  suspects  decently  muf-  2  fled  or  snatched  or  cut  short.  Now  it's  rather  more  open  plan.  One  enters  an  &amp;  anti-hospital,  a  vast  factory  of  excrucia-  I  tion:  there  the  strappado,  herethe  basti-  §  nado;  there  the  rack,  here  the  wheel.  I  The  more  communal  atmosphere  is  GENBART/FOC  meant  &quot;to  discourage  the  others,&quot;  and  it's  certainly  true  that,  as  far  as  the  sus-  pect  is  concerned,the  introduction  to  the  Interrogation  Wing  is  far  worse  than  any  death.  Indeed,  it  became  al-  most  universal  practice  for  the  prisoners  to  attempt  summary  suicide  by  the  only  means  available:  the  dental  excision  of  their  own  tongues.  However  understandable,  this  re-  sponse  also  entrained  a  paradox:  the  tongueless  ones  could  neither  proclaim  their  innocence  nor  (by  far  the  wiser  course)  trumpet  their  guilt.  In  one  way,  it  made  no  difference.  At  a  certain  point-  perhaps  months  later-the  prisoner's  head  would  givea  lolling  nod,  and  the  interrogator  would  stroll  to  the  old  Xerox  machine  for  the  standard  confession,  which  the  prisoner  would  then  initial.  After  more  torture  preludial  to  death,  ninety-nine  per  cent  of  those  who  enter  the  Interrogation  Wing  are  eventually  hanged;  the  remainder  are  sent  home  fatally  envenomed,  with  a  day  or  two  to  live-and,  no  doubt,  a  tale  or  two  to  tell.  It  goes  without  saying  that  this  minority  never  includes  any  tongueless  ones.  They  have  a  tale  to  tell,  but  they  will  never  tell  it.  Anyway,  these  days  the  question  of  the  tongueless  ones  is  academic.  There  are  no  more  tongueless  ones.  All  sus-  pects  now  have  their  teeth  smashed  and  pulled  in  the  cubicles  of  the  Reception  Hall,  long  before  they  are  even  finger-  printed  by  the  registrars.  At  twelve-forty-five,  the  doubles  con-  gregate  in  the  doubles'  commis-  sary,  which  is  situated  in  the  main  body  of  the  building-in  the  golden  eagle's  muscular  torso.  At  any  given  time  there  are  twenty  or  thirty  doubles  stationed  at  the  Palace  of  the  End  (though  there  are  scores  of  us  in  the  capital,  and  dozens  more  in  every  major  provincial  town).  Idling  and  milling  around  the  doubles  commissary,  we  enjoya  glass  of  coffee,  and  ready  ourselves  for  the  work  of  the  afternoon.  For  a  double,  this  half  hour  in  the  doubles'  commissary  is  a  depersonalizing  experience,  to  say  the  least.  We  all  mea-  sure  six  feet  one,  and  we  all  weigh  two  hundred  and  twenty-seven  pounds.  We  all  have  the  same  glistening  black  quiff,  the  same  protuberant,  blood-flecked  brown  eyes,  the  same  slablike  front  teeth  (with  the  same  missing  canine),  the  same  patch  over  the  same  eye.  We  wear  an  eye  patch  because  Nadir  wears  an  eye  patch;  and  Nadir  wears  an  eye  patch  be-  cause  he  was  shot  in  the  face,  by  a  body-  guard,  seventeen  months  ago.  And  here  I  touch  on  one  of  the  heavier  duties  of  a  Presidential  double.  Allthe  injuries  sus-  tained  by  Nadir,  during  the  course  of  the  increasingly  frequent  and  desperate  at-  tempts  on  his  life,  must,  naturally,  be  du-  plicated  in  his  surrogates.  For  the  blast  to  the  left  eye,  we  were,  in  turn,  strapped  and  clamped  into  position  with  a  small  blunderbuss  poised  on  a  tripod  six  inches  away;  many  doubles  were  lost  in  the  ini-  tial  efforts  (despite  countless  experi-  ments  on  a  variety  of  suspects),  and  many  more  were  decommissioned  when  their  wounds  failed  to  heal  in  the  proper  way.  Similarly,  every  double  lacks  a  right  kneecap,  a  left  heel,  a  left  shoulder,  and  the  fourth  and  fifth  fingers  of  his  left  hand.  We  have  all  spent  time  in  wheel-  chairs,  on  crutches,  in  neck  braces,  in  arm  casts.  We  are  additionally  subject  to  periodic  poisonings.  More  recently,  we  all  had  our  hair  scorched  off  (after  a  flamethrower  attack  on  the  son  of  the  dictator),  and  for  a  while  a  team  of  barbers  and  surgeons  appeared  every  day  to  regulate  the  condition  of  our  fuzz  and  blisters.  Entering  the  doubles'  commissary  is,  as  I  say,  a  depersonalizing  experi-  ence.  It  is  to  enter  a  hall  of  mirrors.  Who  is  that  man  by  the  window  with  his  back  turned  to  the  room?  He  slowly  swivels.  Yes:  itis  I.  ..  .  There's  no  little  pleasure  to  be  had,  naturally,  in  min-  gling  with  one's  peers.  But  the  conver-  sation  is  always  somewhat  strained.  It  isn't  just  the  guaranteed  presence  of  five  or  six  professional  informers,  posing  as  doubles-for  we  are  all  informers,  and  inform  on  one  another  as  a  matter  of  course.  No.  It  is  the  feeling  (entirely  unfounded,  no  doubt)  that  Nadir  him-  self  is  perhaps  among  us.  Once  in  a  while,  as  you  pass  the  time  of  day  and  complain  about  the  weather,  you  sense  in  your  interlocutor  a  wavering  heat  in  the  eyes,  and  a  heat  from  the  body  (and  a  hot  smell,  too:  the  smell  of  power)  that  seems  to  betray  the  proximity  of  the  Next.  There  is  one  double,  and  one  double  only,  with  whom  I  feel  I  can  be  more  or  less  myself:  Mekhlis.  I  always  know  it's   him:  like  me,  Mekhlis  had  a  large  fa-  cial  mole  removed  (or,  rather,  relocated),  and  there  is  a  circular  blur  on  his  cheek  that  matches  the  blur  on  mine.  Today,  I  edged  up  to  Mekhlis  in  the  conservatory  bay  that  leads  out  to  the  gardens  with  their  parrots  and  apes.  I  said,  &quot;What  was  in  that  sack?&quot;  &quot;What  sack?&quot;  he  answered  in  the  same  gross  baritone.  Our  trouble  is  that  our  tongues  are  too  big:  too  big  for  our  mouths.  &quot;Oh,  &amp;a¢  sack,&quot;  Mekhlis  said.  Earlier  in  the  morning,  I  had  spent  an  abnormally  uncomfortable  half  hour  yelling  at  a  suspect  while  a  blood-steeped  canvas  mailbag  jerked  and  jumped  around  the  cubicle  floor.  The  scream  it  emitted  put  one  in  mind  of  a  boiling  kettle.  Mekhlis  said,  &quot;The  sack  contained  the  suspect's  three-year-old  daughter.  And  some  starving  animals.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  which  animals,  for  the  love  of  God?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  bats  and  cats  and  rats.  But  this  lot  had  been  injected  with  large  doses  of  amphetamine.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  they  not  instantly  confess?&quot;  I  began.  We  shook  our  heads  and  wiped  our  brows.  &quot;The  untongueless  ones-does  no-  body  listen  to  them?&quot;  &quot;They  may  listen,  but  they  don't  be-  lieve,&quot;  Mekhlis  said.  &quot;Everyone  thinks  the  untongueless  ones  are  mad.  They  are  mad.&quot;  &quot;Perhapsthey  can't  confess  because  they're  innocent.&quot;  And  the  consciousness  of  innocence  must  be  avery  powerful  thing,  I  thought.  &quot;But  they  don't  under-  stand.  Innocence,  guilt:  this  is  not  Nadir's  way.&quot;  Nadir  didn't  want  them  to  confess  to  a  truth.  He  wanted  them  to  join  in  a  fiction.  &quot;It  would  be  better  if  we  .  .  .&quot;  But  then  a  third  double  drew  near,  and  Mekhlis  fell  to  talking  about  the  dust  storms.  At  one-fifteen,  we  filed  out  to  the  locker  room,  where  we  exchange  our  combat  boots  for  pointed  slippers  and  our  camouflage  fatigues  for  silk  ki-  monos;  the  black  beret  is  doffed  in  favor  of  the  pomaded  tarboosh  with  its  crim-  son  tassel.  Somehow  the  months  pass.  Not  that  long  ago,  Nadir  was  hav-  ing  us  consort  with  women  of  the  Jezebel  type,  demimondaines,  courte-  sans,  glistening  houris.  And  we  were  always  under  strict  instructions  to  use  them  roughly.  The  policy  change  began  when  Nadir  was  shot  in  the  kneecap,  and  became  radical  when  he  was  shot  in  the  face.  No  longer  the  snarling  sodomizings,  the  raucous  &quot;squad  bangs,&quot;  and  so  on.  Now  we  recline  in  luxurious  apart-  ments  with  our  lady  friends  of  the  after-  noon;  we  feed  them  peeled  jargonelles  drenched  in  choice  liqueurs;  I  might  softly  declaim  a  few  verses  of  the  im-  mortalpoet  Narciso  as  I  reach  for  my  lute.  Then,  at  two-fifty,  you  become  aware  of  the  activation  of  the  camera,  and  you  proceed.  Nowadays,  a  double's  best  possible  result,  in  the  Recreation  Wing,  is  to  bring  about  multiple  orgasm.  Any  kind  of  orgasm  at  all  is  an  inestimable  prize;  and  a  solid  success  ratewill  suffice  to  protect  a  double  from  disfavor  or  dis-  grace  or  disaster.  But  multiple-and  preferably  continuous-orgasm  is  what  we  always  feel  we  have  to  aim  for,  and  itis  a  not  entirely  happy  double  who,  sipping  his  cola  in  the  commissary  at  seven-thirty-five,  has  failed,  that  day,  to  achieve  it.  At  the  time,  it  was  thought  that  the  reason  for  Nadir's  policy  change  was  baldly  utilitarian.  He  had,  by  then,  sim-  ply  run  out  of  odalisques  and  /%es  de  nuit,  and  was  now  working  his  way  through  the  general  population:  young  nurses,  young  secretaries,  young  school-  teachers-nearly  all  of  them  young  widows,  needless  to  say.  I  do  not  sub-  scribe  to  this  explanation  (and  am  at-  tempting  to  formulate  my  own).  But  the  fact  remains  that  the  double  con-  fronts  an  altogether  different  kind  of  assignment  in  the  Recreation  Wing.  On  entry  into  its  apartments,  as  I  made  the  air  hum  with  my  switch,  I  used  to  en-  counter  an  ogreish  wink  and  a  lewd  roll  of  the  tongue.  Now  I  encounter  the  iso-  lated  stare  of  the  girl  next  door,  and  do  so  with  diffidence.  Mekhlis  claims  he  speaks  for  all  the  doubles  when  he  says  that  they  liked  it  much,  much  better  in  the  old  days:  you  make  your  pact  with  pain,  and  that's  that.  Well,  he  doesn't  speak  for  me.  The  new  pressures  faced  by  a  double  push  down  into  the  very  lin-  ing  of  a  man,  and  involve  mortal  danger  (not  least  from  suicide).  But  I  wouldn't  go  back.  No,  I  wouldn't  go  back.  And  the  months  do  pass.  Your  first  objective,  of  course,  is  to  still  the  trembling.  Normally  you  would  hope  to  get  this  out  of  the  way  over  lunch:  you  calmly  adumbrate  what  lies  ahead,  and  itemize  the  rewards  and  penalties  attending  success  or  failure.  (The  young  women  are  also  sharply  warned  that  the  lengthy  veri-  fication  process-polygram,  scopol-  amine-will  expose  all  attempts  at  sim-  ulation:  such  an  orgasm,  as  interpreted  by  the  Next,  is  a  deadly  affront.)  And  yet  some  of  them  go  on  trembling  well  into  the  afternoon,  despite  the  skilled  foot  massage,  the  reciprocal  ablutions,  the  application  of  many  a  telling  un-  guent.  Indeed,  some  of  them  never  stop  trembling,  and  the  challenge,  in  these  cases,  is  to  find  the  deeper  rhythm  or  logic  of  it,  and  so  transform  vibration  into  vibrancy.  It  is  not  the  work  of  a  moment.  Today,  for  example,  I  entertained  a  young  anesthetist  from  the  provincial  capital.  Judiciously,  I  plied  her  with  fine  wines,  told  her  a  succession  of  amusing  anecdotes,  and  recited  certain  stanzas  in  praise  of  her  pulchritude,  which  was  considerable,  despite  the  belly-dancer  outfit  and  the  ghoulish  maquillage  on  which  Nadir  still  invariably  insists-  and  despite  the  cladding  of  hatred  in  her  eyes.  The  young  anesthetist's  hands  and  voice  were  steady  enough;  but  when  I  romantically  hoisted  her  into  my  arms  and  carried  her  to  the  bed  she  felt  like  a  bronze  statue  (one  of  the  more  mod-  est  statues  of  the  Next,  perhaps)-all  suppleness  and  buoyancy  lost,  and  as  cold  and  adhesive  as  dry  ice.  Toward  the  end  of  the  third  hour  of  unpunctuated  cunnilingus,  I  thought  I  might  be  be-  ginning  to  get  somewhere;  but  in  the  end  the  young  anesthetist  was  unable  to  respond.  She  will  lose  her  passport  and  her  right  to  medical  assistance.  As  for  me,  the  non-satisfaction,  the  anti-  climax,  will  go  on  my  P-card.  It  will  be  noticed.  We  used  to  have  the  ability,  some-  times,  to  arouse  them  with  our  beauty.  For  we  once  were  beautiful.  Regret-  tably,  during  his  various  incapacitations,  the  Next  has  now  gained  some  ninety-  five  pounds;  and  there  are  also  the  hid-  eous  &quot;splatter  wounds&quot;  to  his  chest  and  back,  sustained  in  a  dual  R.P.G.  and  I.E.D.  assault  (rocket-propelled  gre-  nade  and  improvised  explosive  device)  while  he  was  travelling  underground  by  monorail.  Then,  too,  there  was  the  hit  from  the  A.T.S.-or  anti-tank  shell-  he  took  in  the  ballroom  of  a  provincial  palace,  whose  casing,  and  much  glass,     became  temporarily  embedded  in  his  crown  and  nape.  No,  we  are  not  beauti-  ful  any  longer.  One  vast  lesion:  that's  what  I  am.  When  we  shower  together-  and  there  are  only  a  dozen  of  us  now-  we  look  all  red  and  raw,  like  a  convoca-  tion  of  enormous  penises.  The  darkest  moment  of  the  day,  I  find-surprisingly,  perhaps-is  the  mid-  day  change:  the  adoption  of  the  pointed  slippers.  This  is  when  I  have  to  deal  with  my  humanity,  and  answer  the  ques-  tions  posed  to  me  by  my  shrivelled  soul.  And  so  I  gird  myself  for  the  next  cow-  ering  honey-blonde,  the  next  pale  bru-  nette,  the  next  resplendently  contemp-  tuous  redhead,  all  of  them  trembling,  trembling.  Obviously,  anticlimax  does  not  rep-  resent  success-but  there  is  a  whole  other  order  of  failure.  A  whole  other  magnitude  of  failure.  We  don't  talk  about  it.  Mekhlis  doesn't  talk  about  it.  I  don't  talk  about  it.  This  is  why  the  moment  in  the  locker  room  is,  if  you  like,  a  confession:  a  confession  of  the  male  secret.  ...  To  err  is  human.  It  can  be  tolerated,  every  now  and  again.  But  we  all  know  the  point  at  which  we  can  expect  the  lavish,  the  in-wrought  wrath  of  the  potentate.  And  there  is,  of  course,  another  reason  that  this  sec-  ond  order  of  failure-so  radical,  so  all-  deciding-particularly  incenses  Nadir  the  Next.  At  eight  o'clock,  we  repair  to  our  separate  bungalows  on  the  grounds.  Fraternization  among  doubles  was  al-  ways  strongly  discouraged  (to  thwart  conspiracy),  but  now,  in  these  days  of  laxity  and  dissolution,  as  the  Next  ages,  as  we  age,  there  is  a  more  or  less  nightly  bazaar  of  black-market  aphrodisiacs  in  our  compound,  all  kinds  of  potions  and  philtres-every  known  quackery,  as  well  as  every  known  pharmaceutical.  To  step  out  into  the  capital  is,  of  course,  an  impossibility;  a  double  wouldn't  last  half  a  minute  in  the  capital,  or  any-  where  else.  But  here  at  night,  with  all  these  pots  and  packets  and  powders,  so  needfully  assembled  and  dispersed,  we  can  still  get  a  sense  of  the  life  of  the  city.  .  .  .  I  stand  before  the  mirror.  I  am  choking  on  my  own  tongue-it  looks  like  the  fin  of  a  flayed  shark-and  must  soon  submit  to  my  third  lingual  &quot;carve-  down.&quot;  Is  that  myself  I  see,  or  am  I  staring  through  glass  at  another  double?   The  months  pass.  And  it  can't  be  long  now.  For  us,  and  for  the  Next-  so  ceaselessly  are  his  bastions  mined,  his  bunkers  trip-wired,  his  bolt-holes  booby-trapped.  ome  doubles  say  that  there  have  been  worse  times  to  be  a  double  of  Nadit's.  Years  ago,  before  my  arrival  at  the  Palace  of  the  End,  he  used  to  send  them  out  togive  fiery  speeches  in  city  squares,  to  parade  invitingly  in  open  lim-  ousines,  to  march  at  the  head  of  ticker-  tape  tattoos.  All,  of  course,  were  briskly  assassinated,  thus  somewhat  alleviating,  for  a  short  time  (or  so  he  felt),  the  dan-  ger  posed  to  the  Next.  Other  doubles  argue  that  there  have  been  better  times  to  be  a  double:  when,  for  instance  (this  is  Mekhlis),  the  dou-  bles  were  asked  to  uphold  their  merci-  lessness  as  they  moved  from  one  wing  to  the  other.  The  &quot;pact  with  pain&quot;  the-  ory.  I  remember  those  days,  and  the  mental  atmosphere  was  certainly  very  different.  Enmeshed  in  an  atrocity-producing  situation,  the  human  being  (according  to  Mekhlis)  responds  with  one  of  two  psychological  strategies  or  mechanisms.  The  first  is  called  &quot;numbing.&quot;  I  remem-  ber  numbing:  like  submission  to  a  drug  of  deeply  unwelcome  and  alien  efficacy.  The  second  strategy  or  mechanism,  cu-  riously,  is  called  &quot;doubling.&quot;  That's  what  we  all  do  now.  There  is  the  person  of  the  morning,  and  then,  following  the  period  in  the  changing  room,  there  is  the  per-  son  of  the  afternoon.  And  the  doubles  Jave  doubled.  I  think  I  can  prove  it.  The  laws  of  our  country  do  not  permit  the  execution  of  female  virgins.  Circumventing  this  stricture,  by  mass  rape,  used  to  be  one  of  our  perks.  But  ever  since  Nadir  was  shot  in  the  face,  and  things  changed  so  markedly,  no  double  will  have  any-  thing  to  do  with  the  forced  deflower-  ings;  we  leave  all  that  to  the  bucket  boys  and  poker-warmers  and  the  other,  humbler  torturers  of  the  Interrogation  Wing.  The  destiny  of  the  failed  double  (one  who  repeatedly  creeps  in  tears  from  the  luxurious  apartments,  with  his  pointed  slippers  in  his  hand)  is  probably  worth  mentioning.  Such  a  double  must  watch  all  his  clan  submit  to  the  antic  horror  of  the  confessionals,  but  the  double  him-    self  is  dispatched  by  lethal  injection-  put  to  sleep,  like  a  toothless  dog.  No  further  harm  or  disfigurement  is  visited  on  his  body.  One  day  I  was  about  to  supervise  the  &quot;de-gloving&quot;  of  an  elderly  sus-  pect  when  Mekhlis,  in  contravention  of  a  major  ground  rule  (doubles  are  never  to  appear  plurally  in  the  Interrogation  Wing),  drew  me  aside  and,  in  a  thick,  hiccuppy  whisper,  passed  on  the  rumor  of  the  latest  attempt  on  Nadir.  I  had  just  started  to  work,  and  so  there  were  several  anxious  hours  to  endure  before  I  limped  into  the  doubles'  commissary  at  twelve-forty-five.  There  are  only  six  doubles  now.  Some  have  died  from  complications  arising  from  their  more  recent  injuries  (the  bazooka  attack);  some  have  taken  their  own  lives.  Many,  after  grimly  monoto-  nous  failure,  have  attracted  the  special  execration  of  the  Next.  ...  Because,  you  see,  Nadir  is  impotent.  He  has  ever  been  impotent.  All  his  grown  life,  helpless,  as  in  a  dream,  surrounded  by  women  he  could  do  nothing  with.  Rumor,  where  there  is  no  settled  truth,  stops  feeling  like  rumor:  briefly  but  palpably,  it  feels  far  more  convinc-  ing  than  any  immutable  fact.  .  .  .  It  was  at  first  believed,  in  the  doubles'  com-  missary,  that  we  would  lose  a  foot,  an  arm,  an  ear,  the  other  eye.  (The  other  eye-what  would  that  spell  for  our  tasks  of  the  afternoon?  We  could  con-  tinue.  But  why  would  he  want  us  to?)  It  seemed  that  he  had  been  bayonetted  in  the  guts,  poleaxed  in  the  throat,  har-  pooned  in  the  mouth.  We  spoke  with  unusual  license  (and  the  room  was,  of  course,  an  aviary  of  mobile  phones),  because  we  could  cast  off  the  resilient  superstition  that  Nadir  was  among  us.  Nadir  was  not  among  us;  he  was  fight-  ing  for  his  life  in  one  of  the  futuris-  tic  Presidential  hospitals.  Could  the  doctors  be  trusted?  Or  would  they  de-  liberately  bungle  their  work,  as  they  had  with  our  recent  tracheostomies  and  cerebral  trephinations?  At  one-fifty-  five,  we  received  three  independent  re-  ports  that  confirmed  our  worst  fear:  the  Next,  while  crossing  the  Oder-Haff  by  submarine,  had,  like  his  father,  fallen  victim  to  the  dreaded  toilet  bomb.  In  the  changing  room,  I  sat  on  the  bench,  wearing  the  colossal  canopy  of  my  kimono;  at  my  feet,  the  pointed  slippers;  by  my  side,  the  tasselled  tar-  boosh.  I  was  wondering,  as  I  always  do  at  this  time  of  day,  why  the  body's  ge-  nius  for  pain  so  easily  outstrips  its  fitful  talent  for  pleasure;  wondering  why  the  pretty  trillings  of  the  bedroom  are  so  easily  silenced  by  the  inconceivable  vo-  ciferation  of  the  Interrogation  Wing;  wondering  why  the  spasms  and  arch-  ings  of  orgasm  are  so  easily  rendered  inert  and  insensible  when  compared  to  the  contortions  of  torture,  jagged  and  instantaneous,  like  lightning.  You  &quot;re-  spond&quot;  to  Zhat,  and  no  mistake;  there's  never  any  need  to  get  them  into  the  right  mood.  And  consider  how  pain  can  be  made  to  proliferate:  where  is  the  role,  in  the  realm  of  pleasure,  for  the  three-  year-old  daughter?  It  is  all  over  now,  anyway.  Nadir  the  Next  will  join  Old  Nadir  in  the  space-  ship  of  permanent  intensive  care,  his  center  of  gravity  replaced  by  a  raw  hol-  low.  Whether  he  lives  or  dies,  the  fetish  of  verisimilitude  will  draw  each  double  to  the  sandbagged  cell  and  its  rigged  toilet  bow!  (with  the  limpet  mine  tucked  under  the  U-bend),  and  the  surgical  team  standing  by.  This  afternoon  in  the  Palace  of  the  End  I  shall  strive,  as  Nadir's  proxy  or  prosthesis,  to  be  ever  more  tremulously  tender.  I  think  I  understand  this  grav-  itation  of  the  Next's:  the  tendency  to  the  tender,  in  the  Recreation  Wing.  I  can  empathize  withhim,  after  all-  and  I  feel  something  like  a  hard  vac-  uum  in  the  side  of  our  heads  where  our  eye  used  to  be.  But  I  am  not  the  Next.  I  am  only  his  double,  and  my  half  of  it  reads  like  this.  When  you  have  been  hurt  yourself,  you  don't  want  to  hurt  anyone.  When  you  love  something  so  intimately  fragile  as  your  own  body,  you  don't  want  to  hurt  anyone.  That's  what  I  say  to  myself  in  the  chang-  ing  room.  Please  let  me  not  have  to  hurt  anyone.  ¢   