LOVE SNARES
By Louise Erdrich


A man finds happiness so fleetingly, like the petals melting off a prairie rose. Even as you touch the feeling, it dries up, leaving only the dust of the emotion, a powder of hope. That is how it happened with me. No sooner had Margaret and I found happiness together in our old age than our joy was disrupted. Our peace was shattered. Our love was challenged. My life’s enemy, Shesheeb, returned to the reservation and set up his house down the road.
Nothing is complete without its shadow. Ever since the guns had sounded across the lake to mark his birth, Shesheeb had been my special foe. My mother said that when I heard those guns crack I cried and went stiff with rage in her arms. Even when we were babies, I believe he lay waiting in his cradleboard, his tikinaagan, to burn me. Or to whip me with a lash made of deerhide strips from his mother’s tanning frame. For he did these things. While we were still small, he stood on the far edge of a slough in late fall, after a light dusting of snow, and called me across the ice with a frantic wave and cry so that I bounded onto the thin crust, skidding with alarm, and went through.
He was given to his aunt, Iron Sky, to raise. She was the one who made him take the charcoal, the burnt stick, the ashes, which were a sign for him to fast and find his vision and his spirit helpers. One morning, he darkened his face and went off into the woods to ask for help, but it didn’t come. His aunt forced the charcoal on him again, and then again. Nothing. The last time she sent him out he was nearly dead when he returned. He staggered and dropped flat on the path. It was on that trip that something happened to him that we can’t say, we don’t know, we haven’t a name for and don’t want one.
When he came back he stared straight at everyone as if to capture or pierce. Only, if you returned his stare, as I dared to do, his eyes flickered away—flat, nerveless. He needed to get near people. He would not be alone, and glanced around in a constant, anxious way, as though he were being followed. What did he see? Form of the owl, flight soundless, a ruffled heart. Balls of crackling light. A man pacing swiftly with his head twisted backward on his neck. Two rabbits screaming from the same snare. Shesheeb discovered cruelty. He cut the tongue from a slow porcupine and watched it stand in surprise at his feet, bleeding until it toppled. He laughed, and Iron Sky understood that to laugh at the pain of a harmless animal is the sign of a mind twisting in on itself. She sent him from her place, with her thoughts shut carefully on what he had become.
He wandered from one house to another, until he came to us. My family took him in for a short time, to our sorrow. I remember the sap was running when he got his name. My father wore two earrings, and as he bent over the boiling sap one fell off into the kettle. He didn’t notice until the boy who was staying with us reached in to grab it. His hand plunged down. He let out a sly and greedy quack. The noise startled us. He made the sound again, looking at his boiled hand, the earring. Quack!And so Shesheeb was named for the black duck, greasy and sly.
How he got my sister to marry him, I don’t know. For he grew up to look like a duck, fat and juicy, with a potbelly and a shovel-face and a bowlegged hunch. His laugh was still a sardonic quack, and he used it when he struck his young wife with a burning stick. The blow marked the side of my sister’s lovely face with a knot of flesh that grew darker and darker until it swallowed her. Then came the winter of our last starvation, when she disappeared. I know what happened. The truth is this: Shesheeb went wiindigoo. That he killed and ate my sister was never proved in a white man’s court, so he went free. But the rest of us knew.
We were snared in white men’s laws by then. Pitfalls and loopholes. With a flare of ink in the capital city, rights were taken and given away. Attempting to keep what was left of our land was like walking through a landscape of webs. It dwindled until there wasn’t enough to call a hunting territory. We were supposed to learn to farm the zhaaganaashway, using toothed machines and clumsy, big horses to pull them. And yet we’d only just grown used to the idea that we owned land at all—something that could not possibly belong to any human.
When the first of us failed at growing or herding or plowing the fields, we were told that we could sign a piece of paper and get money for the land, without anyone taking it. Mortgage, this was called, a piece of banker’s cleverness that sounded good to many. I spoke against this trick, but who listened to Nanapush? People signed the paper, got money, came home night after night full of whiskey and food. Suddenly the foreclosure notices were handed out and the land was barred. It belonged to someone else. And now, just when it appeared that our people would turn into a wandering bunch, Shesheeb was back. Since the first snow, he had settled in a little gray house that used to belong to Iron Sky. Crippled in one foot, he limped and duck-walked through the bush gathering black medicines. And from his front door, from wherever he could, the old dog tried to steal my Margaret.
It was Margaret’s habit to take a shortcut across Shesheeb’s land on her way to [REDACTED] More than once, she returned with a report that he’d tried to waylay her with clever talk.
“You stay away from him today,” I warned her as she put warm wrappings on her legs and bundled on her heaviest coat.
Margaret’s gaze sharpened, and she smiled into her beaded drawstring bag, counting the coins she was so stingy with. She still possessed the mental fever that acted on me like a love charm. She blew hot, then cold, chilled me, scorched my fingers on those rare times that she welcomed my touch. Now her words were as playful as arrows.
“Shesheeb?” She made her voice falsely innocent. “He talks sweet to me when I pass by. I like the things he says.”
I gripped the knob of my willow stick, thrust it hard at the swirling pattern of Margaret’s floor. “What does the stringy old duck tell you?”
“He says I have a round cheek,” she explained with pride. “I have a young walk, my legs look plump, my thighs sweet and tender.”
“He’s just hungry,” I said. “Besides, I’ve heard the old prick’s half blind.”

Margaret kicked my cane from my hands. “That’s the only stiff thing you own!” she said.
She puckered up her lips and left me, her walk swift and firm. Shesheeb was right about her cheek and legs and thighs, and I was wrong not to follow her that day. For as soon as she was gone I worried that he had got an answer from her, a glance from her eye that encouraged him, a pout from those lips which he would probably call juicy, though toward me they were set and stern. Maybe that, or maybe Shesheeb had done some darker work—hidden a love packet in the snow of the path she walked, a clipping of his hair and nails, the coughball of an owl. Stepping over it, perhaps Margaret had felt a hot breath along her neck, a Chinook wind flowing through her arms, her blood, an early spring. I could see it! Her thoughts melted and softened. She raised her basket and sang an old French tune. . . .
The time that she was gone to Mass lengthened and its passage seemed too slow. I tried singing. I tried chopping wood. I tried to distract myself by drumming and then by mudding the log sides of our cabin. When she finally returned, with the smell of incense in her clothes, I watched her with testing eyes. I thought that she looked too cheerful—in her cheeks wild roses flushed. Winter Chinook, for sure, I decided in an inner fury. He’d used his love ways, his bad old powers, on her, the black stare from under his eyebrows that was said to draw women to him like chaff to a knife.
That night, Margaret turned her back to me as we lay wrapped in our blankets. She knocked my hand off her breast, pressed her lips shut against my kiss. I couldn’t sleep, so I was alert when in her dreams she mumbled something slow and soft that could have been his name. Shesheeb! Hearing that, I sprang up, my throat choked with poison, and went out the door. The night was deep, the wind dry and sharp. I breathed desperate draughts, sucking in the air. At last, a calmer spot cracked open deep in my heart, and I remembered my sister.
In the month of the year when the snow is rotten and the deer starve, Shesheeb had come to court my sister. She was as round as a prairie hen, with a surprised mouth, always laughing and curious. Her eyes were soft and wondering. Fifteen summers she had bobbed on the stalk of her family like a sweet blossom, unfolding her petals. Fifteen autumns had taught her to work hard, to put away all she could for the winter. Fifteen springs she had budded with tender inner life. But the year of Shesheeb would teach her more than I know even now, when I have seen the four seasons go around fifty times and more. The mind of my sister was beautifully wound, a fine skein, a perfect spool. Shesheeb took hold of the end of the string and then, slowly, he unravelled her.
The next morning, my mind was still crowded with ghosts. But thinking of my sister had strengthened my heart. I would not be beaten, I decided. Not this time. I would save Margaret whether she liked it or not.
Margaret. She was my last love, and the most challenging of my life. We were meant to face death together, Margaret and I, for what else is love in old age? On those occasions when our animosity melted and turned golden, I brimmed with such comfort that death lost a portion of its power. I was an elder, the tribal chairman. Supposedly wise. Supposedly resigned to, familiar with, prepared for the end of my life. But the more I knew of death, the more I fought it. Margaret and I were alike that way—tough, slippery, shrewd, unrepentant, though of course she showed a different face to the priest.
I wanted Margaret. I wanted to make her eye spark, to make her turn toward me like a plant to the sun, a child to the drum. Trembling with an old man’s desperation, I decided to make a love medicine, the most potent batch I’d ever concocted. But something worked against me. Something or someone.
There was a pack of dogs that roamed the reservation, sometimes vicious, sometimes craven, and always starving. Shesheeb’s dog was the skinniest and saddest of them all. As I sat on the bench beside the door, working on my ingredients, the dogs hung around, watching me with careful eyes. I suppose that my grinding up roots, burning off the ends of hairs, and wetting and singeing leaves got their juices flowing, quickened their responses. I turned away from my work, went inside the house to fetch something. When I came back out I saw that Shesheeb’s dog had leaped onto the stump in front of the bench where I’d put the tray of medicine and was licking up the powder.
“Awus!” I yelled and chased him off, but he’d been too quick for me. He’d eaten enough love powder for a war party. No matter. I gathered up all my ingredients to make some more.
But, as I began again, a fury seized me, heating up the marrow of my bones. Never before had I needed medicine to snag my women. They had come to me! This humiliation was Shesheeb’s fault, as was the anguish of my sister’s death. I’d had enough of him, too much for a lifetime, I decided. Before I faced the shame of putting love powders on my old lady, I would go out hunting duck. I would find Shesheeb and kill him.
That day, my walk took me into the trading store to buy a good long length of wire for a snare. I put the wire on credit, which Margaret and I paid up as rarely as possible in the hope that if we did die we would go with a whopping bill. On the way home, I investigated all the paths that I thought Shesheeb might walk, creeping close enough to his place, his den, his lair of shame, to smell the burned grease of his cooking.
I didn’t set my snare the first day. I didn’t set it the second day, either. I waited and I thought, crept back to look for tracks and ascertain his habits. I finally settled on a slim trail near his house, a straight bit with a bend just beyond. A natural place to look up and pause, in case a bear might be coming around the corner. And, after looking, to step ahead freely. To brush through a fringe of leaves. In those leaves, the narrowest part, I would set the wire loop. But first I dug a shallow pan into the ground—here Shesheeb’s toes would dance above the earth with a tantalizing desperation, twitch, die.
My heart flinches in me now when I think of the strict care I took. How I made sure that the noose would slip easily, shut lethally, squeeze, cut. How I calculated and removed all that his hands might clutch at and made the hole extra wide and deep. It was a good thing I calculated heavy—for his potbelly, his fat head, and his duck feet. Fortunate that the wind dropped a light branch across my trap.

For three days, nothing. The sky was bleak and gray. On day four, a wind stirred and blew the clouds off. I sat down on my little bench and let the sun hit me. The warmth baked my bones. I smelled the calm freshness of the rain drying off the leaves. I let myself dream, as I do so often now, of the old days and the old people. I remembered my sister’s gentle laugh, and felt the light touch of her fingers on my hair. Then a sound penetrated my fog of memory, a highpitched and prolonged squeak, like the death yell of a rabbit.
As I ran through the woods, or, at least, hobbled as fast as my skinny legs would take me, the pitch grew higher, wilder, shaking me to the core, although I’ve hunted all my life and fought and seen men die in difficult ways. It was not a man, though, whose death rang through the leaves. Rounding the corner, I skidded to a halt in shock, for it was Margaret I had snared.
She strained on perfect tiptoe, like a zhaaganaash ballerina, on the flimsy branch that had fallen across the square I’d carved in the path. Her hands were up around her neck attempting to release the tightening wire. Her face was dark red. When she saw me she went silent. For the first time ever, I had her complete attention. Even in my horror, I was somehow gratified. She looked at me with such appeal that I would have done anything, changed places with her if I could. I threw myself down and crept forward, edging closer until I was crouched nearly underneath her. She understood my plan and stepped onto my back. Then I marshalled every bit of my strength and lifted her so that the wire loosened and she was able to pull it over her head. Once she was free, she fell, retching and gasping, beside me in the ditch.
Now that I had saved her, now that she was assured of life, I had only a few minutes in which to work on her logic. I could see no harm in assigning blame where it would be to my advantage. Therefore, as I scrambled for my walking stick, I cried out, “Shesheeb! Can’t he stick to bad medicine? Must he also set snares all around his house?” Then I pounded the earth and vowed I would tear into him right away, crack his skull with my willow stick, beat him senseless for trying to snare my wife.
“Your wife?” Margaret said, rubbing her neck, tough-minded despite her near-death. “Even now I am holding out for a church wedding, old man, so we’ll get to that wife part later. For now, quiet down. Akiwenzii, I have had a vision.” She dragged me to her, grasped my jacket, spoke face to face in an earnest and serious voice. “Bizindan. Listen to me, Nanapush.”
As we walked home together, both weak and giddy with relief, Margaret told me the substance of her revelation. Many times we had to stop, for she spoke with great force, breathing hard. What she’d seen was no less than a spirit gift, a vision that could change her life and mine. I didn’t know whether to be horrified or proud that I had caused it. I knew only that I should for once be quiet.
“As the dark closed in around me, as I choked, as I was near death,” Margaret said, “here is what happened, old man. I saw my great-grandmother from the old days. You know the one. They used to call her Medicine Dress. In my vision she was young and strong. She wore her dress, the medicine dress that she was known for. And she told me its secret. That secret had died with her, but she was giving it to me now, she said, in order to save my life. Here is what she told me. Nothing upon that dress was ever touched by a human, much less a chimookomaan. It was sewn for her by the spirits, she said. Then she told me that I must sew my own dress, following the rules that she would set out. She said that once I had made this dress I would have great power. In this dress, I would be able to heal anyone. I’d see things. I’d know things beyond the reach of my mind. After she told me this, blackness closed around my eyes. I could see no longer. I experienced great sorrow, as I believed that I would die before I could create this healing dress. I was pierced by the wish to live, opened my eyes, and then saw you! Old man, you have saved me to outfit this vision, to make myself the medicine dress!”
Margaret’s eyes widened and then softened to a deep maple color, and her gaze charmed me close. “Dear old man,” she said softly, clasping my hand in hers as we reached our door. “You saved my life and made it possible for me to sew my vision. Let me show you my thanks.”
Margaret slowly and methodically began to gather her materials. As she had said, nothing on the dress could be made by a white man, which was not easy, as chimookomaanag popped up everywhere—stole the land next door and put a farm on it, walked the town streets, even prayed in our missionizing church. She couldn’t use glass beads to decorate her dress. As in the old days, she had to use deer clackers, teeth, quills, and the bones of small birds. This required the painstaking hunting of those animals, which I did with a good will, hoping that my efforts might redeem me from the terrible mistake of the snare. Binewagsat juicy in the comfort of the tree branches. I knew how to catch them with a wire hooked to the top of a long pole. Plucked and roasted, the birds were sweet and tender. I also let it be known that I was collecting these bird bones, and would be glad to clean up the remnants of partridges cooked throughout the reservation.
These were good times. These were the sorts of jobs I liked—catching food, visiting around, eating roast partridge. Whenever I returned with a load of quills or bones, Margaret rewarded me in ways I can only dream of now. I wanted nothing but the happiness of falling asleep in her arms, craved only the calm discriminations of old-age manaa. I wanted us to live in love until we faded into the next world, worn smooth by the rubbing of skin on skin.
If only Margaret’s son, Nector, hadn’t come home that year, things would perhaps have gone on forever in that pleasant dream. But there he was one afternoon, sitting on a rock beside the door eating bannock. Margaret beamed down on him like the moon.
Nector was smart, and all the girls admired his looks. It was my task to keep him from falling prey to vanity—an uncle’s responsibility.
“All that manaa you’re having is making you thin,” I said. “The bones are poking through your skin. Most unattractive.”

“Only one bone counts”—he glanced down—“with women.”
“More like a rope,” I said, critical. “A short little piece.”
“Yours is.” Nector laughed, stuffing a huge grease-covered chunk of pakwezhigan into his mouth.
“Neither one of you has much to brag of,” Margaret said, sitting down with us. “Women come to you out of pity.” But she smiled at me from the corner of her eye to let me know that this was not the case. My heart swelled up, and I experienced a collision of desires. First, I wanted to make the moment last with Margaret, in the hope that it would lead to other things. She had been generous two nights before. Would my luck hold out? Second, I wanted to go on teasing Nector, for his own good. Third, what was it? I couldn’t remember. An old man’s thoughts fly in and out of his head. Oh, yes. There was something I had to avoid. Like a treacherous rock, it could tear the bottom of my boat. But I couldn’t recall in that moment exactly what I was trying to avoid, and so, like someone trying to steer away, I instead was drawn right to it.
“You’re pretty good at snaring women,” I said to Nector, “but you can’t keep them, I hear.”
As soon as I said the word, I remembered with a jolt of panic, snare, snare, snare! Immediately, my brain spun. I tried to throw down a distracting piece of nonsense about the famous quality of Margaret’s bannock, but Nector had already seized on the word I feared.
“Snaring?” He began to laugh.
“I can’t hold myself back!” I cried, lunging over him. “I must have yet another piece of this bread. Old woman, you have a way with your cooking—”
“—that snares you every time,” Nector said. “That reminds me—”
“Ohweeh!” I cried out and fell upon the ground, as though unconscious, and began to writhe and moan. Nector and Margaret seemed to find in my agony a source of humor.
“Look how the old man pretends he’s poisoned. Very funny. He does this all the time,” Margaret said fondly.
“He’s a sly one,” Nector said, approving of me, too. “So good with a snare, he could snare a deer. He could snare anything or anyone! Remember how he used to snare . . .” He stopped and looked uncertainly at Margaret, whose mouth had dropped open and then slowly shut to a thinking line.
Silence. I waited for her blows to fall upon me where I lay, but she did nothing, which made me even more afraid. I opened my eyes a crack, and my terror was confirmed. From the set of her mouth and the flash in her eyes, I knew that she understood all and was reserving punishment. Mere browbeating, tongue-lashing, ass-kicking, and starvation of an old man would not be enough. She gave a chilly little grin, rose, and turned her back on the two of us.
“It is time for me to rest my old bones,” I said in despair. Then I crawled into a corner of the house and burrowed under a heap of blankets. I covered my face, bit my tongue, and turned to the wall.
So I had snared her. She would snare me right back. We both knew that she was doing it and both of us knew why, but neither of us had the courage to dismantle the barrier of hard sticks and pointed words that soon tangled like deep bush between us. I knew that she had divined the true prey of the snare I’d set and had decided to resurrect my jealousy. Although I was aware of her ploy, I couldn’t keep the thorns of her words from piercing deep.
One night, she hummed in an irritating manner, under her breath. “Niinimoshenh,” she finally let me hear her singing, “sweetheart, little duck, speak softly, for my old man will hear you creeping underneath my blanket.”
Of course, after that I tossed all night, at each little noise, imagining the greasy old duck sneaking into our cabin. Now that she slept across the room from me, such a thing was remotely possible. I began to sleep by the door, but then I feared the window. The upshot was that I got no sleep at all.
She boasted of the old duck’s hunting skills, and how he always had fresh game—waawaashkeshi or mooz. “Never gopher! Never things I’ve seen you eat!”
“What would you know? You never cook for me anymore.” I tried to make myself meek and pitiful. “You’ll come home from Mass one day and find me dried up in the corner, starved to death.”
“Go snare something then,” she said, heartless.
She walked out laughing at me, came back with bird bones for her dress. I didn’t ask her where she’d got them, only if I could help her dye them red with the bark of speckled alder I’d gathered in atonement.
“You?” She looked at me and sniffed, as though I were covered with moh. “You might interfere with the dress’s healing properties.”
This cut me deeper than anything she’d said so far, and I let myself be naked in my speech.
“I’ve got nothing in my heart but love for you.”
“Nothing in your pants, either.”
With a cruel laugh, she sat against the shady side of the cabin to work on her dress, which was almost finished. I must admit, she’d done a good job on it. The dress was made of a moose hide that she’d pounded and stretched and rubbed to a velvet softness. She’d used raspberry leaf and root dyes to color the bird bones, and, unlike the harsh, bright glare of the trader’s beads, these soft pinks and purples put roses in the woman’s cheeks. I said so.
“Don’t touch” was all she said. “My roses have pickers so long they could pierce your heart and kill you.”
I crept close to her, thinking that maybe the medicine dress would do its healing work and bring us together, but the opposite happened.
“My, my.” She clucked her tongue, her eyes sparkling with malicious fire. “I’m dizzy. That old man down the road gave me a sip of wine!”
There comes a time when you reach the last bitter drop your gullet can hold. That was it. I’d had enough.
She wanted wine? I’d get her wine. I knew where Sister Hildegarde Ann kept the parish communion wine in the convent cellar, which opened from a side door with a flimsy bolt. I’d steal a whole cask, I decided, and bring it back to our cabin. I’d have a party with my sweetheart, and our love would be just like old times. We’d have a bush dance for just the two of us!
Once I made town, I visited around, chewed snuff, and killed time until it was dark, then crept close to the convent. Crouched beneath an open window, I heard the nuns say their nightly prayers. “God comfort you, my daughters,” I whispered as they doused their lamps and made their way to their lonely cells. “And may you all get laid.”

After I had pronounced my blessing, I waited until they slept and then I went to the cellar door and used a splinter of partridge bone jammed in the crack between the door and the frame to ease the bolt from its casing. It didn’t take long. The cool, winy air rushed at my face as I hefted a little wooden keg onto my shoulder and set off for home.
It had been a very long time since I’d tasted wine. In my youth it had made me foolish, stolen my brain, and left a bannock between my ears. Drink had caused me to sing and gamble, to fight, to chase women who belonged to other men. Liquor had not got the best of my life, but I knew well its evil powers. And yet, at that moment, all I could think of was its delights. The sour and delicious fumes exuding from the keg made my mouth water. The air was heavy and growing heavier. I set the cask down and took a rest beside the road. If I had a drink, I thought, my load would be one drink lighter.
The wine went down easy. The keg went back up slow. A familiar warmth burned in my gut and then swirled up around my heart. The moon was just bright enough for me to make out the road. As I walked on, the warm thrill of wine reached my tongue and untied it. I found myself singing an old love song. You are paddling away, my sweetheart. But I will come after you. Marry me tonight. Into my thoughts came pictures of the happiness that Margaret and I would feel once we’d put aside our game of revenge. That jealous game had run away with us, and then it had turned around and run over us. Flattened us good.
The keg grew heavy again. I stopped on the road and took a drink to lighten it, and then another, and then perhaps one too many, for I stumbled as I set off once more. At one point, near dawn, I woke to find myself curled up around my friend, the keg, right in the middle of the road. I took another drink. By then the cask was so light that I had no trouble reaching the cabin. Margaret greeted me at the doorway. Her look was foul. 

“I was up all night, worried! I thought a bear got you!”
“Ah.” I put the wine cask down and covered my heart with the palms of my hands, overcome. “My love! You worried about me?”
She regarded the keg suspiciously. “What did you bring, akiwenzii?”
“That is a peace offering,” I said. “It is wine. You told me the black duck tried a sip of wine to win your womanly favors. I thought I’d do him one better and offer you a cask . . . or most of it.”
Margaret looked down at the keg, frowning, then kicked it. It rolled, nearly empty. “Most of it?” she said. She shook her head and hid, perhaps, a little smile.
I poured a tin cup full and offered it to her. For a moment, she looked tempted, and then she knocked the cup out of my hands. “Your damn keg’s nearly empty! You drank it all!” I retrieved the cup midair—a drunk is capable of such tricks—and downed it in one defiant gulp without a drop spilled.
“I’m a medicine dancer, according to my dream,” Margaret said, standing as proud and straight as her old bones would allow. “I won’t take the ishkodewaaboo, old man.” But she had seen the lengths to which I was willing to go to win her favor, and much of her anger toward me seemed to have dissolved. Perhaps the dress had helped, too. She had been working on it when I arrived, and now she held it up against her—a soft, dun-colored, plum-beaded, old-time dress. Finished.
“Put it on,” I urged. “Let me see you in it!”
I leaned back against a tree and watched as she shook off her old cotton majigoode, stood a moment in only her shift. Carefully, she lowered the new medicine dress onto herself and then stalked inside to fetch her eagle fan from its strap on the wall. While she was in there, she braided her hair and painted two black dots at the corners of her eyes. Then she emerged from the cabin and stood regal and queenly before me. I had to lower myself to sit against the tree or I would have fallen over from the simple beauty of the shock. Margaret. Rushes Bear. Granddaughter of old Medicine Dress. My love. She looked like a woman from a dream, a spirit lady, an ogichidaa ikwe. Tears stung my eyes, and I overflowed and wept.
“My precious sweetheart, are you a vision?”
“Of sorts,” Margaret said, carried away a little herself.
If we had stopped right there, we would have ended up happy together for the day and on into the night. But my guardian spirits weren’t with me. My love luck failed. Because, once I told her I would sing for her, once I fetched the drum and she started to dance, Margaret ruined the effect. Though the dress was magnificent, my lady love was barely competent.
“I guess I never saw you dance before,” I mumbled, surprised and dizzied by her bobbing missteps.
“Sure you have,” Margaret said. “Many times. As you remember, I was head female dancer years ago.”
“Mii nange,” I mumbled, not sure of anything. “You’re tipping!”
“You’re tipping, old shkwebii.” She was irritated. “You can’t see straight.”
But she was wrong. There were two of her, but both were hopping around in as miserable a crow step as a white woman. It hurt to watch.
“Dagasanaa, please,” I asked her very gently, as careful with my words as I could be, “let me put on the dress and show you how to do it!”
She stopped dancing with a jerk, drove her hands to her hips, and glared. She puffed out her cheeks and looked as though she might explode in a cloud of bird-bone beads and tattered bashkwegin. Then she suddenly laughed, harsh and mean. “I’d love to see you in a dress, old crazy. The medicine is strong in this one. Maybe it will sober you up!”
“I don’t care about that, lady love,” I said to her in my most sincere voice. “I just want to make sure you don’t make a fool of yourself.”
At that, she almost ripped the dress off her body.
“Here.” She thrust it at me. “You be the fool!”
She was outraged, I knew it, but I thought to win her over with my patient instruction. I put on the dress and started easily, keeping to the beat with what I thought was wondrous perfection. My steps were subtle. I moved like water. I could feel how well I floated around on the grass of the yard, and then I lost myself in the beat, although the drum had stopped. I could feel her eyes upon me, full of unwilling admiration. But when I chanced to look around at last I found that I was quite alone. She was gone. I was miserably wounded, but only for a second, and in the next instant my suspicions grabbed me. Off to Shesheeb’s, no doubt! I started through the bush, intending to have it out with him at last.

The leaves grew thick. Roots tripped me. Raspberry pickers scratched my arms, but I held to my path and eventually found the clearing around the little house that had once belonged to Iron Sky. Shesheeb hadn’t kept the place up at all. The roof was sagging. The yard was a mess of garbage. A thread of smoke twisted in the still air. My heart squeezed—was he inside the house with Margaret? I was just about to rush the cabin when the door opened and the old man emerged alone, hunched over, groping his way into the sun. He turned his face up to the light, squinting.
So this was Shesheeb. Well, he was not much! Where was his power? His medicine? I made a small movement, and he turned his head. His hearing, at least, was very keen.
Since I was already discovered, I stepped forward and presented myself before him. There were no words I needed to say. There was no message. I stood still in the sun and allowed him to examine me with what eyesight he had, to recognize me, and in so doing recognize his crime. I waited. He blinked his white eyes, opaque and cloudy with cataracts. His face had collapsed around his nose. His nostrils quivered, his chin strained toward me as he tried to sense what he could. His rag of white hair hung to his waist, and his pants were held up by rope. He was nothing to look at. He didn’t even have shoes on, so I could see that his feet were filthy clawed things, splayed and frightening. I could not imagine what Margaret saw in him—in fact, it was now clear that she’d only been trying to pique my jealousy all along.
“Who are you?” Shesheeb asked, at last. “You beauty, have you come to tempt me?”
I stepped back, startled, as you can imagine. I had entirely forgotten, in my examination of the old man, that I was dressed as an attractive woman. But now I had an idea. I’d get the old fake to fall in love with me. I’d torture his heart! I’d make him beg for my attentions, then abandon him and have a good laugh with Margaret.
I didn’t dare use my voice. “Ahhh,” I sighed. Just a little sigh, like some wind caught in the branches. He stepped closer. His nose twitched back and forth.
“Piindigen! Come into my cabin and have a cup of tea with me,” he cried. “There’s a chill in the air today.”
“Mmmm,” I crooned. I had to agree with him. Tea sounded just the thing.
Inside, the place was chaos. Piles of junk everywhere. Bones in one corner, rags in another. No place to sit and barely room to stand. There was a mashed old iron pot on top of the stove with some oily tea in it. This Shesheeb tried to heat up. Next to the pot was a can with scum at the bottom, soup maybe. His supper, no doubt. I couldn’t help but gloat and, in my gloating, wonder at my luck in holding on to a woman who kept things comfortable for me, cooked my food, and never let my tea grow cold and unpleasant like the tea that Shesheeb gave me now. I took a drink. Though it was only half warmed up, still the tea seemed to fill my bones with a hot, blooming sensation. I finished the stuff and then, in spite of myself, I wanted more. Which was when it hit me. He’d hit me. Shesheeb had medicined me and I’d fallen for it! He was smiling now, just a hint of a smile, private and knowing. I was suddenly sure that he knew exactly who I was and had planned this moment. Perhaps he had even drawn me to him through the woods. Though blind and decrepit, he still had power.
He picked up a hand drum with knowing authority. “May I play a little song for you?” he said, his voice a slippery whine. Without waiting for my answer, he struck the drum. “Niimin,” he ordered. Against my will, I began to dance, just as he had directed. Quietly, with even movements, in exact time with the drum and the strange song he sang, I bobbed in the shadowy mess of Shesheeb’s cabin. I tried to stop myself, to still my legs, to make my feet heavy. But I could not, and the movement of my body soon filled me with horror as nothing else had ever done. I was quickly becoming exhausted, too, reeling from the wine and the long stumble back from town. Still my feet rose and my legs trod. I knew that if I danced much longer my old heart would burst. Bright spots shifted across my vision, pain shot through my lungs.
And then Shesheeb’s dog bounded in to greet its master. With a cry, almost of fear, he tried to shoo it out. It had been a good while since I had medicined that dog by accident, but now, to my surprise, Shesheeb became flustered by its presence. The old duck beat the drum a little faster. The dog grovelled and licked his knee. He tried to kick it away, but my love powder was too strong. The dog fell into a sudden passion, hunkered over, and began to make love to Shesheeb’s shin with a vicious ardor that cared not for sharp words or strikes. That dog humped away like the devil and broke Shesheeb’s rhythm with its thrusts. Released, I pushed past the old medicine man and staggered into the freedom of the yard and then the woods, for I did not even pause but plunged forward in a stupor of relief until I reached the main road.
There I stopped. Which way to turn, home or town? Either way, what was there for me now but more shame and misery?
I headed for town and slept the afternoon and night away in the cemetery. I’d eluded Shesheeb, but not his tea, which knocked me out. The next morning, the Pukwans, who dug graves for twenty-five cents a hole, came and found me laid out cold. A dipper of water splashed in my face, and I clenched my eyes shut. Another dipper of water stung me.
“Enough!” I put my hand up and struggled to sit. I was hampered, it seemed, by a sheet wound around my legs.
“Come look at the mindimooyenh,” one Pukwan yelled to the other.
I staggered to my feet and tried to walk.
“How did this woman’s dress get on me, my brothers?” I asked the Pukwans, sincerely puzzled.
“You pulled it over your fat head,” one said. Then, with relish, he added, “Do you know what today is?”
“Today,” I said, thinking as quickly as my throbbing old brain would allow, “is the day we dress as women.”
Both Pukwans burst into howls and sneers of derision. “His brain has for sure flipped over in his skull,” they agreed. “He has forgotten that this is the day of the council meeting.”
They were right, I had forgotten. This was the morning that I, as tribal chairman, was supposed to preside, and then call a vote on whether we should accept the large cash settlement that was offered us if we were willing to leave our scrap of land.

“Lend me clothes,” I begged the Pukwans, instantly doubling the volume of their hilarity. When they refused, I drew myself up straight and headed off, trying to reclaim my dignity.
I had no idea what I could do to maintain my position of respect once I appeared before the meeting. I thought of two people on the way whose clothes I might beg, but they weren’t home. Doubtless, they were waiting for me with the others at the powwow arbor, ready to decide the future of our tribe.
There was nothing for it, I counselled myself, but to go forward boldly and rely on inspiration. When I reached the arbor, I strode to the center of the dance ground, and instead of skulking and cringing in shame I threw open my arms. I turned in a circle and let people gawk and chatter and react with owlish surprise. When their speculation died away, I opened my mouth.
“Friends, relatives, nindinawemaaganidok,” I said. “You have made free with your laughter. You have subjected this dress, which my wife made, to derision and to ridicule. You have satisfied yourselves at the expense of this piece of clothing I am wearing. Now let us speak of where it came from: the spirits. Let us speak of the decision before us—which also involves the spirits. Let us speak of my wife, Margaret, who is also called Rushes Bear. For the spirits, again, have called on her. Let us speak of her vision.
“This vision occurred to Margaret in the bush where the trees grow thick. That is when she saw the making of this dress, which some of you know was made with nothing ever touched by the chimookomaanag. This dress is sacred. This dress was made with healing in mind. So how, you wonder, did old Nanapush come to wear it? That is a very good question.
“Although I have faith in the old ways, I was finally persuaded to try the Eucharist. Father Damien and my dear wife have been after me for years to receive the benefit of the white man’s God, and at last I did give in to their wishes. In one night, I made up for all the years of the blood of Christ that I had missed. Inspired by the sacramental wine, and perhaps a little mad, I persuaded my wife to let me wear her holy dress. In her compassion for me, she gave it up, saying that it contained a powerful medicine that might work with the wine to give me insight and wisdom into the grave problem now before us.
“I am not afraid, as others may be, that my manhood will be compromised by such a little thing as wearing a skirt. My manhood is made of stiffer stuff. Rather, I worry that I, like so many other men who boast of their superiority and revel in their brute strength, cleverness, or power, am unworthy to wear the dress of a woman.”
Here I paused. I took a close look at the crowd. My initial impression—that it was composed of three women to every man—was confirmed. I went on.
“We call the earth Grandmother. We ask for her help when times are difficult. When we are lonely, or harrowed by death, we throw ourselves upon her and weep onto her breast. All that we are and all that we survive upon comes from the Grandmother. But there is a limit to everything, even your grandma’s patience. When I donned my wife’s dress, I admit that I was at first defiant, and, as I have confessed to you, quite drunk. But the dress itself is sacred, as you know, and even though I am a clever fool it stopped my thoughts and humbled me and made me listen.
“ ‘Listen, old fool,’ I heard the earth tell me. ‘You are walking on my beautiful body. And I allow it, not because you are a human and not because you are a man, but because you were born of a woman. I, the earth, respect a woman’s pain as it is freely given to the service of life. The only time you men suffer is when your bellies are stretched too full of the food your wives cook for you. What would you do, you poor creature, decorated with a knob and a couple of balls,’ the earth asked me, ‘if all the women of the world closed their legs to men? Die out, that’s what. So, with my generous nature, I have given you all that you have. You owe your life to me. Now I ask you, what have you given me in return?’ ”
I turned to my relatives, my people, and opened my arms wide.
“What have we given her?”
To my question, there was no answer. I’d said enough. I walked off and left the assembly to ponder my words.
When they voted, they rejected the land settlement. So the dress worked. Its medicine was the sacred shame that it provoked in me and the power that it gave to my tongue and brain. I knew that it was the dress that had spoken through me, and I was humbled. In that mood, I decided to return to Margaret.
As I neared the cabin, I planned an anxious series of making-up offers, all based on my love for Margaret. I hoped that she would greet me, no matter how angry. I would endure her whipping tongue, bear the bite of her disdain, if only she was there, I thought, waiting for me. But when I got to our little home the door was shut, the cabin empty, the stove cold, and her blanket gone. I stood in the quiet, sick and wondering.
What gives us such cause to harm each other? Where do we come by our anger and our pride? I had no doubt even then that Margaret loved me and I loved her. Yet as a couple our main activity, it seemed, was making each other miserable.
“Please come home,” I cried out the open door, “and let me love you the way you deserve!”
But from the massed green leaves and the thick growing trees there was no answer. At that moment, I understood that the manidoog, too, were tired of me, that I’d gone one step too far. I sank to the earth, put my head in my hands. With all my heart I wished to be forgiven. Going back through the nights and days, I began to count up all I’d done to the people around me. I tried to name each name, I tried to beg their mercy and humbly address each problem I’d created, starting with the day I tried to snare Shesheeb. I began with good intentions, but I quickly fell asleep.
The list was too long. The day too warm. The breeze so calm and golden. 

