IN DEFIANCE OF CLUB RULES
By Tim Parks


In defiance of club rules, Robert took to going out on the river alone. It had become difficult to fit in with other people’s plans. Arthur’s wife was about to give birth, and this hitherto loyal friend now had no time. To go on the group outings would mean hanging around for hours waiting for others to arrive and argue about what they were going to do and where. Instead, after work, Robert drove straight to the club, pulled his kayak down from the rack, and changed into his wetsuit.
This was January. There was even a patch of ice in the slacker shallows. Immediately, he noticed that going out alone changed his state of mind. He was doubly anxious sorting out his kit as he got into the boat. He checked and re-checked that his life jacket was properly buckled. Sitting on the muddy bank, he ran his fingers around the cockpit at least three or four times before feeling reassured that the spray deck was secure. Did he have the paddle the right way round? He placed his hands on either side of the boat and pushed off.
Just upstream of the club, the boys who competed in slaloms were running the gates beneath the so-called New Bridge in their long fibreglass boats. Robert wasn’t interested in competing with anyone. The only thing he wanted to measure himself against was the river. He had a short plastic white-water kayak. And the first thing he did was paddle it to the middle of the river and turn upside down. The icy water gripped his head. It was dark and muddy. This, as far as Robert was concerned, was the defining experience of kayaking. You were alone, unseeing, unhearing. You couldn’t breathe. You had a handful of seconds to return yourself to the normal world. Robert counted to at least three before coming up. It was important not to concede to the darkness that you were afraid. I am not in a panic or a hurry, he told himself. He set up his paddle carefully and rolled up. The water streamed off him. There was the shock of the breeze on his face, then a rapid warming. He was master of the river.
He set off downstream toward the railway bridge. Often, to loosen up, he paddled backward, which gave him a view of the center of town. The high red brick embankment curved away to the left. There were pretty stone towers from centuries before, steep hills rising to walls and battlements, and, on a clear day, the mountains were just visible in sharp relief behind. The almost daily experience of this view reconciled Robert to his home town and induced a mood of acceptance and calm. For some years now, since even before his father’s death, he had been increasingly disaffected with the place. He had been passed over for promotion at work. The area he lived in had been invaded by immigrants. Drug addicts left their needles in the gutters. He had seen his mother grow fearful and bitter. You mustn’t go out in the boat on your own, she told him. You are all I have in the world now. The river is safer than the streets, Robert replied.
After the bridge where the ring road passed, marking the end of the town proper, he was obliged to turn and paddle forward. The river flowed a little faster now. The bank was untended, snagged with broken branches, bits of rubble, rusted iron. Occasionally the paddle scraped a block of cement. Sometimes there were fishermen, usually old. The man who haunted the right bank just downstream of the bridge must have been a thalidomide case. He gestured with a shrunken arm to show Robert where his line was. Robert steered clear. He couldn’t imagine eating the fish from this river. On the left bank, truck drivers in the slow traffic were high enough in their cabs to watch him over the parapet. He imagined them envying his freedom. Some waved. Sometimes the lovers sitting on the steps halfway along would break off their kisses. If he was in a good mood, he would capsize and roll up for them. Exhibitionist! his fiancée teased. He and Stella had been together for almost ten years now. Robert needs the river, she confided to their friends. He has so much frustrated energy. Show your biceps, Rob, she said. Neither of them was in a hurry to marry. An uneasy inertia had overtaken Robert’s life. He was angry without even being aware of it.
Under the railway bridge, the club’s rule about not going out alone made sense. But this was the only place Robert wanted to be. Carrying four tracks, the bridge was built as a viaduct, its five tall arches channelling the wide river into five narrow streams, with thick walls of masonry in between. At the same time, the water level fell almost three feet, so that with the sudden narrowing, plus the dive, the placid surface was transformed, for the twenty yards or so that it took to get through the tunnels of the arches, into a wild rush. This was most pronounced beneath the second arch from the right, where the drop coincided exactly with the beginning of the tunnel. Here, a strong V-shaped wave formed beneath the nineteenth-century masonry, powerful and irregular. At either side of the wave, great blocks of stone, placed just above water level to protect the bridge’s stanchions, allowed for the formation of narrow lateral eddies of escape and refuge. After the frothing crest of the big wave, the stream swirled through the long arch in a tumultuous chain of lesser waves before tumbling out into a broad boiling expanse beyond, where sudden whirlpools could suck the boat under, front or back, before you had time to think.
There were all kinds of games to play here. When the water was high, the stream throbbed beneath the kayak. Pointing downward into the wave, face upstream, you had a fantastic impression of speed. The river was pouring onto you, and you had to fight like mad to hold your position, curving to left and right, braking with a low brace when the nose sank in the trough, paddling hard on the crest when the water threatened to toss you out. Riding this wave, forced into a fury of concentration after his dull hours at the office, Robert had the exhilarating sensation of being right at the heart of life, in the secret pulse of the river, yet at the same time wonderfully static, in control. Sometimes a train thundered above as he surfed, packing his brain with noise and excitement.
But it was hard to stay on the wave for more than thirty or forty seconds at a time. Perhaps you exposed a little too much edge on one side or the other, or you let the bow sink too deep into the trough, or the wave itself suddenly changed with a hiccup in the current. Then all of a sudden you were blown off and careering down the wild water behind it. Often the fight to stay on the crest led to a capsize. Then you had to roll up in earnest. The swift current grabbed your paddle beneath the water. It was hard to drag it forward to the set-up position. Toward the end of the bridge on the left, there was a rock that might catch your helmet. Altogether, there were seven bouncy waves to get through before the stream spread out and steadied. Sometimes the best thing to do was just wait till you were past the roller coaster, then come up in the muddled water beyond. It irritated Robert when it took him two, or even three, tries to roll up. He knew that one day he would fail and have to take a swim. He would have to save himself, his boat, and his paddle all on his own.

Upright, he fought his way back up the narrow eddy along the inside of the arch and tackled the wave again. After half an hour, he might take a break. He got out of the boat below the bridge and sat on the blocks of stone that protected its masonry. There was a strong river smell here. Occasionally he saw a rat hurrying through the sodden vegetation. Men loading trucks behind a factory on the right bank might turn to watch. Robert nodded to them.
He began to like going out on his own so much that he felt vaguely annoyed, in March and April, when he arrived at the bridge to find some of his old companions already there, riding the wave, shouting Whoa! and Alrighty! They shook their heads at the idea of his being there alone. Sometimes, they said, a piece of debris could form a strainer under the water. Upside down, you might get tangled in a branch that had jammed in the rocks.
The other canoe-club members who played at the bridge drove down in their cars, unloaded their kayaks, had a good time, keeping careful watch on one another, loaded up again, and drove back. They didn’t like the long, dull paddle from the clubhouse or, above all, the fact that to get home you had to carry your boat upstream of the bridge and then fight the current for almost a mile. On the other hand, there was a risk in driving down; on two or three occasions, club members’ cars had been broken into while they were paddling. The bank beyond the factory was quite isolated, and there was a Gypsy camp on the wasteland a few hundred yards farther on. Robert preferred to paddle back to the club. It kept him fit. So, once he decided he’d had enough, he pulled his boat out, dragged it up the high bank, and walked it upstream beyond the drop. It wasn’t unusual, on this walk, for him to find a couple of unshaven young men sitting around smoking on the bank beneath the first arch of the bridge, with a fire lit perhaps, their women cross-legged in shawls and shabby dresses, the inevitable baby at their breasts. Sometimes Robert came across a pair of teen-agers in sleeping bags, surrounded by sachets and needles. He was careful where he trod in his thin rubber kayak shoes.
When spring turned to summer and the weather grew warmer, a group of Moroccans would often come down to the bank and sit and smoke under the bridge and sometimes bathe in exactly the place where Robert pulled his boat up on the bank. It was really the only place where you could get out of the water easily. Robert never spoke to them. He looked away. Out of the water, his legs stiff from being jammed against the footrests, carrying the heavy kayak on his shoulder, he felt vulnerable. This was a lawless place. There were all kinds of foul smells now that the weather had turned. Without wanting to be racist, Robert intensely disliked Gypsies. They carry knives, he thought. They don’t clear up their litter. But farther upstream, where he relaunched, there were a couple of small gardens that backed onto the river and often he saw a pretty mother playing with her young daughter there. Then Robert said hello, and explained to the little girl over the garden wall how the spray deck worked. Goddam druggies, the woman said, nodding toward the bridge. The police never bother them. Robert shrugged. He got into the boat on the bank and let it slide the ten feet down the steep slope into the water. The bow plunged deep, then reared up. The girl cheered and clapped.

Paddling back, he had to keep tight to the embankment, out of the current. Sometimes there were strange, blue-and-yellow birds nesting in the bushes that had burst out of the old brickwork, and on a mud bank just after the bridge that carried the ring road there were always geese and ducks. Once, Robert surprised a troupe of ducklings. They broke right and left in panic. Tiny flies swarmed over the mud and around his face. He reached forward with the paddle, torso swaying in a strong rhythmical stroke. The mother duck squawked and flapped. It wasn’t clear to Robert why he hadn’t married Stella yet, why he wasn’t having a family, like his friend Arthur. Sometimes he and Stella used his member’s key to get into the canoe club at night and made love on the floor in the changing room. Lying in the damp dark, with the river flowing by outside, they told themselves they liked this better than finding each other in a soft double bed every night.
Mid-June, the river rose dramatically as the snow melted in the mountains and rushed down to the plain. This was the time to ride the wave. But now there were more and more riffraff enjoying the deep cool beneath the bridge. It was infuriating that the one place in the city Robert loved should be infested like this. One scorching day, three Slavic-looking men were standing on the rocks by the masonry of the second stanchion, right near the wave. They must have waded over from the bank under the first arch where the stream was shallow, then worked their way around the rocks to the second. The men smoked and shouted, and one, wearing only soaking underpants, with a mobile phone in his hand, wanted to speak to Robert. He was laughing, gesturing, stout and mustached. From the signs he made, it seemed that he wanted Robert to lend him his boat, or at least his life jacket for a swim. Robert shook his head. He didn’t understand their language. The men were passing around a bottle of something transparent. The current was dangerous. They waved the bottle. Did he want to try? Looking up from the water, Robert shook his head. The man seemed to want to take a photo of him with his mobile phone. He was a fat, heavy fellow, doubtless drunk. He kept leaning forward, grinning behind his mustache, pointing the phone. Robert decided to move to a different arch.
The central passage of the viaduct was just a quick cluttered rapid with no eddies at the side. All you could do here was push the kayak under a certain rock near the middle, where the stream poured over so hard that the boat would be suddenly sucked in and turned up more or less vertically on its nose. It was while Robert was approaching this place that he saw something curious. It was trapped on a rock a little way up the rapid. At first he didn’t understand. It was grayish and almost round. It was a bone. Presumably an animal’s bone. He got closer, forcing the boat upstream from one small eddy to the next. The thing was jammed between two rocks and water was trickling through it. Now he realized that it was a human skull.
Robert held his kayak steady in the small churn of disturbance behind a half-submerged stone. The skull lay on one side. The jaw was missing. But it clearly was a skull. The water was passing through an eye socket. Though he couldn’t have said why, it seemed important to Robert to retrieve it. The position was difficult. The skull was in front of him and to his right, just beyond reach. The water was powerful and cluttered with debris. Leaning the boat onto the rock beside him, unsteady in the line between eddy and stream, Robert raised his paddle in his right hand and swung it at the skull. On the third attempt, he dislodged it. It bounced on the rock below and into the water a good yard away. Switching his paddle to the other hand, he lunged out and grabbed at it. His fingers found it just as the boat capsized.

Here was a situation unprovided for in all the books he had read on kayaking. He was upside down in a swirl of water, helmet scraping on the rocks, with a skull in one hand and his paddle only loosely held in the other. If he took hold of the paddle to roll the kayak upright, he would have to let go of the skull. And he wanted to keep it. He wanted to take it to the authorities. There was some mystery behind it, some missing person.
Underwater, Robert waited a second, until he felt that the boat had been flushed clear of the rocks and the arch. You always have more air than you think. That is a commonplace. He wasn’t afraid. Encumbered by skull and paddle, he tried to force his body into the position from which, theoretically, with a wave of the arms, a toss of the head, and a snap of the hips, he could roll upright even without the paddle. Sure enough, his head came up, but only enough for him to get a gasp of air. He had never been good at doing it this way. He tried again and just caught a glimpse of the Slavs by the first stanchion leaning out and shouting, as they watched the capsized kayak float out into the current downstream of the bridge.
One more try, he thought. He sat still, upside down in the churn of water; he leaned forward; he stretched his arms—still holding skull and paddle—toward the gloomy light of the surface to his left. Then he threw his arms wide, in the proper rotary motion. This time he didn’t even get his head up. He was tired. Very rapidly, he let go of the paddle, pulled the release tab on the spray deck, and popped out. Immediately, his face was in bright sunshine in the whirlpools after the bridge. With his free hand, he flipped the boat upright again, tossed the skull into the cockpit, and looked around for his paddle. It was only a couple of yards off. One hand on the back of the boat, he launched into a determined sidestroke. All was well. But now there was a shout right beside him. The kayak tipped as a big hand grasped the cockpit. One of the Slavs, it seemed, had jumped in.
Robert knew the river here well enough. Although to the unpracticed eye it might seem one broad, uniform meander, there were, in fact, two fast channels, one on each side, and right across the middle, fifty yards down from the bridge, a great shale bank that would be exposed when the river was low. If you steered carefully as you came through the central arch, it was only a short while before you were in water little more than knee deep. It’s O.K., he shouted to the wild foreign face now propped on the deck. Clearly the idiot had had no idea how cold full immersion would be. His teeth were chattering. This was snow water. He didn’t have a wetsuit or life jacket. O.K., O.K. Take it easy. Wait. Just wait. O.K., now! Already Robert could touch. He waited till the water was a just a little shallower and stood up, grabbing boat and paddle as the current tried to tug them on. Stumbling on the stones, the Slav yelled and pointed. He retched, then started yelling again. Both his friends were in the water, too, but they were flailing in the main stream, swirling rapidly away along the right bank.
Getting the man beside him to steady the boat, Robert managed to climb back in—something he always found difficult in moving water—and, leaving the Slav safe in the shallows, headed for the others. He always kept a sling around his waist and a throw rope in the boat beside his seat. He caught up with one man about a hundred yards down. He was panicking. Robert clipped the sling to the kayak’s stern and told him to hold it. The man thrashed about, almost pulling the boat over. He couldn’t understand the simplest of instructions. He was shrieking. There were gaps in his teeth. His face was white, ugly, and terrified. With a furious effort, Robert paddled him to the side, but the bank was high here and the water was rushing deep against the smooth wall. It was another hundred yards or so before there was anything safe to climb onto.
Then he went to look for the third man. Where had he gone? Only now did it dawn on Robert what had happened. They had thought that he was in serious difficulty. Drunk, and quite probably stupid, certainly inexperienced, they hadn’t hesitated to leap to his aid, diving into the stream by the second arch right where the current was strongest. It was madness. Robert paddled fast with the stream. The man he was looking for was the fat fellow with the mobile. Presumably, he had left his phone on the rocks. But Robert wasn’t familiar with the river down here. All he knew was that the faint roar he could hear in the distance was the dam—none of the kayakers came this far—and that it was crucial to get out before it, otherwise the current would pull him down into the sluice and the filter.
He did paddle fast. He was determined to find the man. Only a hundred yards above the dam, he turned upstream and ferry-glided from side to side across the current in case the swimmer had fallen behind him. He had a clear image of the fat fellow with the black mustache leaning over the rocks beneath the viaduct, pointing his mobile phone, shouting, beckoning, offering him the liquor. It was just the sort of unruly vitality that had always bothered Robert. What a fool! He cruised back and forth for a good half hour, at what he judged was the last safe position, but the whole business had tired him and he needed to be sure that he could get out well above the dam. Eventually, he found a place on the left bank, climbed the high rocks, and hauled the boat up after him with his sling. The skull banged about in the bottom. He had already forgotten it. At once he went to the police.
Stella thought him heroic. After some days, the police came to the conclusion that the skull was that of a prostitute who had been missing for more than a year. They were unable to trace the two Slavs whom Robert had saved, but the corpse of the third was picked up in the filter across the sluice of the dam. His mobile had disappeared from the rocks beneath the bridge. Why on earth did they jump in? Robert kept repeating on the two occasions he was questioned. You were alone, the policeman said. They thought you were in trouble. But I didn’t even know them or anything. I didn’t ask to be rescued. The policeman shrugged. People imagine they can help, he said. Robert’s mother seized on the drama to beg him not to go down to the viaduct again. Promise me, she said. She hugged him tight to her thin shoulders. Promise me you’ll stop now. I’ve got nobody else in the world. She was a determined old woman. Robert solemnly promised. But Stella was angry. What will you do, then? she demanded. Her eyes burned. How will you keep fit? You’re so goddam moody when you can’t get out. Robert stared at her. I’ll go anyway, he said. Mother will never know. So most evenings, in defiance of club rules, Robert still pulls his kayak off the rack and paddles downriver to play the wave beneath the viaduct on his own. 

