WHAT KIND OF FURNITURE WOULD JESUS PICK?
By Annie Proulx

Budgel Wolfscale, a telegraph clerk from [REDACTED] on his way to [REDACTED] to search for the yellow metal, stopped at a [REDACTED] road ranch one day in 1898 for a supper of fried venison and coffee, heard there was good range. For the next week he rode around the country, finally staked a homestead claim on a spread east of the Big Horns that had been cut from the holdings of a Scots outfit that pulled out the year before.
A year-round stream, Bull Jump Creek, cut the property, fringed by cottonwoods and willows, the shining maroon branches of water birch. It was still open country, though barbwire was coming in with the nesters. He built a shotgun cabin of hauled-out lodgepole, married one of the girls from a whorehouse in Ham’s Fork, and, naming the ranch after the harp his mother had played, thought himself a [REDACTED] rancher. He wasn’t that, but his sons and grandsons were.
The Harp skidded down the generations to Gilbert Wolfscale, born on the ranch in 1945, and in middle age still living a son’s life with his mother in the old house, which had been gradually enlarged with telescoped additions until the structure resembled a giant spyglass built of logs. He ran a cow-calf operation, usually worked the place alone, for even inept help was hard to find. He was a tall man with heavy bones. His coarse skin seemed made of old leather upholstery, and, instead of lips, a small seam opened and disclosed his cement-colored teeth. There were no horses that could match his stamina. Despite his muscle mass he moved with fluid quickness. He surrounded himself with an atmosphere of affronted hostility, but balanced it with a wild and boisterous laugh that erupted at inappropriate times.
The old world was gone, he knew that. For some reason a day in the nineteen-fifties when all the ranchers and their hands had worked on the road rose often in his mind and with such vividness that he could smell the mud, the mineral odor of wet rock. He had been eight years old. It was the last rainy spring before that decade’s drought sucked the marrow out of the state. The county road that ran between Kingring and Sheridan passed through seven ranches over a fifty-mile stretch. Under heavy melt from the mountains, it became an impassable sump of greasy mud and standing water. The county had no money. If the ranchers wanted to get to town they would have to fix the road themselves or wait until it dried. On a drizzling morning in April his father drank his coffee standing up.
“What say, Gib? Want to come along?”
They rode together on Butch, his father’s roan saddle mount. The rain had stopped but heavy clouds moved with the bumping wind. Gilbert clutched the lard pail that held their lunch. They came to a place where men with shovels were strung out along the road. There was a section of an old corral still standing near the road and here men had leaned their tools, lunchpails, and bottles. A few had thrown their jackets on the ground. His father tethered Butch to a post.
While the men cleaned the borrow ditches and culverts, cut new drainage channels, built water bars, and hauled gravel, Gilbert hacked manfully at the mud with a broken hoe, but when Old Man Bunner told him to get out of his way or he’d chop off his legs he went to the weathered corral to play with sticks and rocks. He built a play corral of mud and broken miner’s candle stems, and placed inside the rocks that were his horses. The wind cleared out the weather and by noon there was broken blue sky.
“Warmin up,” called one of the men, stretching his back. The sun shone behind his ears, which turned the color of chokecherry jelly.
The lunch of cold pork and boiled eggs seemed the best thing Gilbert had ever eaten. There were two squares of his mother’s coarse white cake with peanut-butter icing at the bottom of the pail. His father said Gilbert could have both pieces. He fell asleep on the way home, rocked by Butch’s easy walk. His mother groaned with rage when she saw the mud on his clothes. The next morning his father went to work on the road without him and he cried until his mother slapped him. The work went on for a week, and when it ended a truck could get over the road. The first time they drove past the place he looked for his play corral. He could see one miner’s candle stem. The rest had blown away. The rock horses were still there. Fifty years later the road was gravelled and graded by the county but he still looked when he drove past the place, the old corral now nothing but a single post. The prairie had swallowed his horse rocks.
After Gilbert Wolfscale inherited the ranch, he enlarged the two irrigated alfalfa fields, which made it possible, in bad years, to feed the cattle through the winter and, in good years, to sell hay to less fortunate outfits. These two fields kept the ledger ink black. He came up with other ideas to increase income. He thought of butchering and packing the beef himself to bypass the middlemen who took the money while the rancher did the work, but the local stores preferred to stay with the chain suppliers. So he put an ad in the paper looking for customers and found half a dozen, but they didn’t eat enough beef to make the venture pay and a woman from town complained that there were bone splinters in the ground beef. He raised turkeys, thinking surefire Thanksgiving and Christmas markets, but never sold very many, even when he put strings of cranberries around their necks. His mother spent days making the cranberry necklaces, but people wanted the plastic-wrapped, pre-basted Safeway turkeys with breasts like Las Vegas strippers. He and his mother ate the turkeys themselves, his mother canning most of the meat. By spring, they were sick of the smell of turkey soup.
Some of the original chock-and-log fence—built not of split rails nor slender poles but big logs—stood in the high pastures nearest the forest, but much had been replaced with five-strand barbwire. He could almost see the ground compressing under the heavy log weight. How many men had helped his grandfather build that fence of tree trunks? Gilbert put in his time working on the barb fences, which no longer had the tensile strength of fresh wire but were patched and mended with short lengths of various gauge. In an earlier decade, struggling to finish the job on a hot afternoon, he had cast about for a stick or something to twist tight a diagonal cross-brace wire, but the only thing at hand was a cow’s bleached leg bone with its trochlea head, which seemed made to jam fence wire tight. It worked so well that he collected and used cow bones in dozens of places. These bony fences and the coyote skulls nailed to the corner posts gave the Harp a murderous air.

He was a model of rancher stubbornness, savagely possessive of his property. He did everything in an odd, deliberate way, Gilbert Wolfscale’s way, and never retreated once he had taken a position. Neighbors said he was self-reliant, but there was a way they said it that meant something else.
Seven miles north of the Harp on the Stump Hole Road lived May and Jim Codenhead. Gilbert had gone to grade school with May—she was then May Alwen. May’s brother, Sedley Alwen, a big, good-natured kid with stringy arms, had been Gilbert’s best friend. Gilbert had courted May for a year, taken it for granted that Sedley would be his brother-in-law, but she’d strung him along and then, in a sudden move on Christmas Day in 1966, married Jim Codenhead. Jim then was nothing more than an illiterate [REDACTED] hand working on the Alwen place.
May taught him to read until he could fumble through the newspaper.
“That’s the shits, man,” said Sedley sympathetically and took Gilbert on a two-day drunk, as much a salute to his draft notice as balm for Gilbert’s disappointment.
The marriage wasn’t unprecedented. For those who took the long view and had patience it was the classic route for a lowly cowhand to own his own spread—marry the rancher’s daughter. In retaliation Gilbert went to a New Year’s dance in Sheridan, found Suzzy New, and in ten days pressured her into a fast marriage.
Suzzy New was slender and small-boned, with something French about her child-size wrists, a contrast to Gilbert, six foot four, bullnecked with heavy shoulders. She was nimble-fingered and a talented embroiderer. In the flush of their first months together Gilbert bragged that she was so handy she could make a pair of chaps for a hummingbird. She was quiet, disliked arguments and shouting, the only child of elderly parents. She held herself tensely and had a way of retreating into her thoughts. She believed herself to be a very private person. She slept badly, sensitive to the slightest abnormal sound—the creak of a house timber, the rising wind, a raccoon forcing its way through the skirting of the house and under the kitchen floorboards. She had let herself be bullied into marrying Gilbert, and within days of the ruinous act she bitterly regretted it.
All her life she had heard and felt the [REDACTED] wind and took it for granted. There had even been a day when she was a young girl standing by the road waiting for the school bus when a spring wind, fresh and warm and perfumed with pine resin, had caused a bolt of wild happiness to surge through her, its liveliness promising glinting chances. But out at the ranch it was different. The house lay directly in line with a gap in the encircling hills to the northwest, and through this notch the prevailing wind poured, falling on the house with ferocity. The house shuddered as the wind punched it and slid along its sides like a released torrent from a broken dam. Week after week in winter it sank and rose, attacked and feinted. When she put her head down and went out to the truck it yanked at her clothing, shot up her sleeves, whisked her hair into a ravelled fright wig. Gilbert seemed not to notice, but then, she thought, he probably regarded it as his wind, and no doubt took pleasure in such a powerful possession.
Sedley went to [REDACTED]. Gilbert, who had a growth inside his nose, was 4-F despite his strength and muscle. Sedley was captured by the Vietcong and spent several years in a bamboo cage. He came back a different person, crisscrossed with sudden rages brought on by inconsequential events such as the rattle of dishes or a truck crossing the bridge. He was thought to be unstable and in need of watchful care. He moved in with May and Jim. May could calm Sedley down when he was having one of his fits. She had always been close to him, had, from the time she was a small child with nightmares, padded down the hall to his moonless north room, climbed into his bed for warmth and protection. The infant she bore six months after she married Jim Codenhead might have been her brother’s child or, for that matter, Gilbert Wolfscale’s, or even Jim Codenhead’s. For years, whenever Gilbert was at their house, he studied the child, Patty, trying to work out whom she resembled. He could come to no conclusion.
[REDACTED] nightmares tortured Sedley Alwen. Sometimes, to give May a break, Gilbert made the long drive to Cheyenne, taking Sedley to the Veterans Administration hospital, where he saw the shrink and got his prescriptions renewed. It was a two-day trip and they stayed at a motel overnight, sharing a room. After the session Sedley would be talkative. Gilbert listened attentively to his stories of torture and comrades’ deaths. It was at these times Sedley resembled the friend of his childhood, excited and eager. But he could not have whiskey. They tried it once and found out. Whiskey made him act up, smashing the motel furniture and howling at the light fixture in the ceiling.
By 1999 Gilbert was fifty-four and caught in the downward ranching spiral of too much work, not enough money, drought. It got drier and drier, grasshoppers appearing as early as April and promising a plague in August. The grass crackled like eggshells under his feet. There was no color in the landscape, the alkali dust muting sage, stones, the earth itself. When a vehicle passed along the road a fine cloud spread out and slowly settled. The air was baked of scent except for the chalky dust. He was conscious of how many things could go wrong, of how poorly he’d reckoned the ranch’s problems.
To the new-moneyed suitcase ranchers who had moved in all around him—ex-[REDACTED] real-estate agents, fabulous doctors, and retired cola executives—the Harp looked a skanky run-down outfit. They noticed the yard littered with stacks of rusted sheet metal held down by railroad ties, a pile of crooked fence posts inhabited by chipmunks, the long string of log additions to the old house. Some of these rich people, heated with land fever and the thought of a bargain, came to Gilbert and offered to buy his ranch. He could see in their eyes how they planned to bulldoze the house and build mansions with guest cottages.
“Them rich pricks are lower than a snake’s ass in a wagon track,” he said to his mother. “I told him my granddad homesteaded this place and if I ever seen his [REDACTED] butt on my property again I’d shoot it off. I looked him right in the eye and he got the message. He turned color so fast he farted.”
His mother produced her hard little laugh.
It had always been dry country and no one born there expected more than a foot of rainfall in a good year. The drought halved that and he could see the metamorphosis of grazing land into desert. The country wanted to turn to sand dunes and rattlesnakes, wanted to scrape off its human ticks. Gilbert didn’t have enough hay to feed his own stock. Everything told him that the day of the rancher was fading, but he dodged admitting it. He blamed the government, he blamed Salt Lake City. The damn Mormons, he said, had seeded the clouds for the Olympics, sucking out all the snow moisture before it reached [REDACTED]. The ranch-house well was eleven hundred feet deep and the water brackish. In the drought years of the nineteen-thirties and again in the fifties his father had put in earthen dams and stock ponds, and in wet years they had held water but were now silted up and dried and stood as unsightly pits filled with weeds. In the center of one dry hole he piled an immense stack of brush, adding more every year, intending to burn it with the first good snow.

He was pestered. Some newcomer wanted a shortcut easement through the ranch to his million-dollar luxury house on the other side. A long-nosed Game and Fish biologist nagged him about fences that blocked the passage of pronghorn. Hunters wanted to shoot his deer. A busybody woman straight out of agricultural school came from the Extension Service one day and lectured him about protecting stream banks from cow-hoof erosion, about pasture rotation to prevent overgrazing.
“I heard all that shit. But I’ll tell you what. I let the cows graze where they want and drink where they will. Been doin this for a while. Guess I know somethin about it.” He stood in a truculent posture, legs apart, chin thrust forward. The woman shrugged and left.
His wife, Suzzy, had left him to live in Sheridan, sixty miles distant, in the spring of 1977, when the two boys, Monty and Rod, were still young. Those boys were doomed, said Gilbert, smacking his hand on the table for emphasis, to grow up without a father’s guidance and example, injured because they were denied a boy’s life on the ranch.
“If he wants a see the kids why can’t he just come into town?” Suzzy said to her mother on the phone after the split. Her complaining voice rose, dipped. “You know I put in years on that ranch, and nothin really worked right. Half the time there wasn’t water and when there was water it was nasty. We couldn’t get in or out in the winter. No telephone, no electricity, no neighbors, his mother always naggin, and the work! He wore me down. ‘Do this, do that,’ bullyin ways. Keep that old house clean? Couldn’t be done. He could a sold the place fifty times over and lived decent if he got a job like a normal human bein, but would he? No. I wouldn’t relive those years for nothin.” Once she had made up her mind to leave, her own stubbornness emerged. But Gilbert refused to agree to a divorce and the separation and enmity dragged on.
In town she got a cash-register job at the Big Billy supermarket and as soon as the two boys were old enough to run errands and deliver papers she made them get after-school and weekend jobs as well. She wanted to show them there were better things than cows and debt.
The Big Billy job was no good. Not only was the pay low but she disliked having to repeat “Have a nice day” to people who deserved to be ridden bareback by the Devil wearing can openers for spurs, and one day she quit to take a job as a filing clerk in the county treasurer’s office. It gravelled Gilbert that she handled his property-tax and vehicle-registration papers.
She wore him down on the divorce and he gave up after a fight in town in her new house. She had bought an old brick mansion with big trees in the yard and an ornamental iron fence around it. In the eighteen-eighties the house had belonged to a [REDACTED] merchant who used it two or three times a year to oversee his ranch investments. Gilbert did not understand how she could afford this house. They had argued, then screamed. Gilbert stood with his legs apart and his arms hanging loose. Another man would have recognized this as a bad sign but she could not stop blaming him, and he, goaded to violence, slapped her a good one and she came at him and yanked out a clump of his hair in the front where it would show, ran to the back of the house, and called the sheriff. When the law came she accused Gilbert of assault, showing the red mark on her cheek as proof.
“What about this?” shouted Gilbert, pointing to his bleeding scalp, but Sheriff Brant Smich, his second cousin, ignored him. When the divorce finally came through it was settled that if he wanted the boys to help out on the ranch for a weekend he would have to drive in and fetch them and he would have to pay them for their labor. He had paid practically nothing for child support during the long separation, she said, it was the least he could do. He protested, said he had cancelled checks to prove he had certainly paid adequate if not luxurious support.
“Take it to court,” she said, “you think you been treated so bad.”
Neither of the boys came willingly to the ranch. They appeared only in times of crisis after Gilbert telephoned Suzzy, demanding their help—spring branding, fence work. They let themselves be dragged out for a weekend then, sulky and grudging. They sassed their grandmother and whispered and snickered when they saw cows bulling. A day’s work was not in them. They wanted only to ride the horses. It was clear to Gilbert that at his death they would sell the place as fast as they could. One day someone would find his stiff corpse out in the pasture, the wire cutters in his hand, or they would find him fallen in the muddy irrigation ditch, as he had found his own father. He would never be able to pass on to them how he felt about the land.
His allegiance to the place was not much of a secret, for even outsiders perceived his scalding passion for the ranch. His possessive gaze fell on the pale teeth of distant mountains, on the gullies and washes, the long draw shedding Indian scrapers and arrowheads. His feeling for the ranch was the strongest emotion that had ever moved him, a strangling love tattooed on his heart. It was his. It was as if he had drunk from some magic goblet full of the elixir of ownership. And although the margins of Bull Jump Creek had been trampled bare and muddy by generations of cows, although there were only one or two places along it still flushed with green willow, the destruction had happened so gradually that he had not noticed, for he thought of the ranch as timeless and unchanging in its beauty. It needed only young men to put it right. So his thoughts turned again and again on ways to get his sons to see and love the ranch.
In 1982, Monty was fourteen and Rod two years younger. Gilbert, waiting in the truck in front of Suzzy’s house, heard Monty inside bellowing at his mother in his cracking voice, “I don’t want a go. It stinks out there, there’s nothin a do,” and he could not dodge the fact that his sons hated the ranch. In a desperate attempt to make the place more attractive to them he had the power company run out poles and wires, a terrible expense and useless, too, as the boys came no more often. The only benefit, if benefit it was, was the small television set he bought and put in the living room, where he would lie on the sofa under one of his mother’s quilts and watch men wrestling anacondas, riding motorcycles inside enormous wooden barrels. His mother liked the television, but claimed to be shocked by much of what she saw.

“It is company, I’ll say that, but where they find them fool people to cut up so I don’t know.”
He wasn’t lonely. There was his mother, he was a church deacon, a member of the Cattlemen’s Association, he went to his neighbors’ potluck suppers and barbecues, and about once a month drove to town and got half drunk, bought a woman, and made it back to the ranch before the old haymaker cleared the horizon. He was not a veteran but he knew all the local veterans and often went to the V.F.W. with them to drink and listen to [REDACTED] stories.
He had always taken an interest in [REDACTED]. He wondered what it was about combat that so changed men, for all of those who had been in school with him, the ones who came back, were marked by what they had seen and endured. He knew them and he didn’t know them. Sedley came back angry and crazy, Russ Fleshman returned as a windbag, Pete Kitchen was reclusive and lived in a horse trailer at the back of the old Kitchen ranch. Something had gone wrong for Willis McNitt, leaving him dead-voiced and troubled. They all referred emotionally to the war, now so many years past, and Fleshman sometimes put his face in his hands and cried. And there were the ones who didn’t come back: Todd Likwartz, Howard Marr, and several he hadn’t known. When Gilbert thought of them a phrase came into his mind—“Now they know what Rhamses knows.” His mother belonged to the generation that had memorized poems in school, and one, “Little Mattie,” on the death of a thirteen-year-old girl, had fastened itself relentlessly in her recall with the tolling line “Now she knows what Rhamses knows.” She quoted from it throughout her life and still sometimes treated her son to a recitation of the entire piece with the stilted emphasis learned so long ago in a little [REDACTED] schoolhouse.
Gilbert Wolfscale listened to the veterans. He wanted to understand what he had missed. It had been the great experience of the time of his young manhood and he had been absent. It was as though the veterans had learned a different language, he thought, listening to Fleshman’s scattershot of didi mau, Agent Orange, beaucoup, Jodies, 105s, Willy-Petes, and K-Bars. He caught at the names—Phu Bai, Khe Sanh, Quang Tri—wondering if these were the 566965746e616dese equivalents of Rawlins or Thermopolis. The veterans did not seem so much tragic victims as eccentric members of a select club. He felt himself an outsider. They had got the edge on him.
One year, Willis McNitt sat behind him at the August rodeo. It was the hottest summer he had ever known. The horses were blowing and their coats white with salty sweat, the bulls stood in the chutes with their heads down and bucked feebly. There had been a freak accident at the stock pens. The rodeo grounds were old, put up in the nineteen-thirties, all wood fence and posts, and somehow a kid watering the roping calves had fallen or been knocked down and mashed his face against a splintery post. A long sliver had run into the flesh below his eyebrow and he had stumbled away from the pens, blood coursing down the back of his hand, which he had put instinctively to the wound. He had not cried out, just stumbled into sight with blood seeping between his fingers, making the crowd gasp. As the ambulance bore him away Gilbert said to no one in particular, “They ought a tear out them damn old wood posts and get good metal.”
“I seen somethin like that in Nam,” said Willis behind him in his flat, heavy voice. Willis had a son at the university, studying anthropology. The kid—Coot McNitt—had a half-baked theory that rice cultivation had developed to replace a shortage of maggots in early man’s diet. If you listened to him long enough he’d make you believe it. “We was in a free-fire zone and the kid next a me got shot in the eye. He said, ‘I been shot in the eye,’ said it five or six times, real quiet, like he couldn’t quite take it in. Couldn’t believe it. Then he laid down beside me and commenced a kick and thrash and ever time he kicked the blood pumped up through his eye like a school water fountain.”
“God,” said Gilbert. “Did he—?”
“Died. A kid, eighteen years old, younger’n Coot. Couldn’t believe he’d been shot. I was nineteen but after that I felt like a old man.”
“You ain’t old, Willis. Hell, you’re my age.”
“Yeah.”
The word dropped like a stone.
One day, Gilbert Wolfscale’s mother opened an official-looking letter from the [REDACTED] State Allocation Department. She read that she had inherited a sum of money from someone in that state. All she had to do was fill out the enclosed form, mail it back, and in six or eight weeks she would receive the inheritance. She spent two hours filling out the form, with its demands for address, Social Security number, date of birth, bank-account numbers, and other tedious details. She sat so long at the table with this form that her left leg went to sleep and when she got up to go to the kitchen and make a cup of tea it buckled. She fell and broke her hip.
She recuperated very slowly. Even after the break had healed, Gilbert had to drive her in to Sheridan for weekly therapy. He sometimes wondered why she didn’t get one of her friends to drive her. She was always on the phone gabbing with her cronies and most of them still drove. He heard her talking with them about football, which she watched avidly on the television.
“I’m for them Bears. I couldn’t never be for them Packers.”
When he asked her why she did not arrange a trip to town with Luce or Florence or [REDACTED] she said, “They’re not family. Suppose the doctor was to give me bad news. I’d want a be with blood kin, not some other person.”
While she was in with the therapist Gilbert walked around the windy town streets rather than sit in a plastic chair in the stuffy waiting room. In a music store he looked at CDs, wondering at the proliferation of bands with trendy, foolish names. Behind a stiff plastic divider labelled “miscellaneous” he found birdcalls, tap dancing, the whistles of steam locomotives from around the world. The last CD was “Remembering [REDACTED].” The cover showed a grimy infantryman staring up at a helicopter. The back copy listed “Firefight,” “Shrapnel,” “arvn,” “Jungle Patrol,” “Rain,” “APC Convoy.” He bought it.
In the truck driving home his mother said, “I don’t have to go back there but a few more times, looks like, and thanks to heaven. Some a the strangest people settin in that waitin room. These two women got talkin about their Bible class. Sounded pretty modern, you know, tryin a link the Bible to nowadays. But this Bible class they went to was tryin a guess how it would be if Jesus showed up in Sheridan. That got them all excited and there they set, what would he do for work. They both said he could easy find a job workin construction. Would he have his own house and would it be like a trailer or a regular house or a apartment? Then they got at the furniture, what kind a furniture would Jesus pick for his place. And you know how you get thinkin about things you overhear? Wasn’t none a my business but there I set, crazy as they was, wonderin if he’d pick out a maple rockin chair or a sofa with that Scotchgard fabric or what.”

A month before her fall his mother had bought some bright-colored kitchen sponges. One of them was purple and she had developed an affection for it, never using it on greasy pots or to wipe up nasty spills. He dribbled coffee on the counter one morning and began to mop at the spill with the distinguished sponge.
“What are you doin! Don’t use that—take the pink one. You dunderhead, I’m savin that one.”
“For what, Ma?”
“For the good glasses.” She meant the crystal wineglasses with the gold rims that had been passed down from Granny Webb and had stood inverted in the china cupboard for as long as he could remember. He had never known them to be used. Inside the china cupboard next to the glasses was a photograph of his father’s mother in a black silk twill dress, looking freeze-dried and mournful.
“Where is that stupid mailman?” his mother said, pulling back the curtain and looking for the plume of dust along the road.
It was days before he had a chance to listen to the CD. He was on his way to the bank. The soul of leaf susurration, cicadas, crickets, mortars, a calling bird with a voice like a kid hooting down a cardboard tube, snatches of talk, incoming fire, deafening helicopter fibrillation filled the truck.
Saturday was grocery day, but his mother said, “I don’t feel up to it. You just get what we need, bread and eggs. Coffee. Whatever else you see that looks good. I don’t have much appetite these days anyhow. And I want a wait for the mail. I’m expectin mail.”
He bought the groceries and on the way out of town passed the library. Two miles beyond it he thought of books—books on [REDACTED]—and he turned around. He came away with three, all they had, read them in bed that night, and fell asleep with a book on his face. He awoke frightened and shouting, thinking something was smothering him. The exhaled moisture from his mouth had formed a round dimple in the page.
It was not long after this that his mother began to give way. She would look at him and say, “Where’s Gilbert? Out playin, I bet. I want him to fill up that wood box.” And later she would tell him, “You’ll have to fend for yourself for supper. I can’t cook without no wood.” He felt a pang of guilt, for there had been many times when he was a boy that he had dodged the wood box. But she kept asking if the mail had come until Gilbert, exasperated, said, “You expectin a letter from the President or what?” She shook her head and said nothing.
In 1999, Gilbert’s son Monty turned thirty-two, a big dark-haired fellow, still single, who worked as a roofer in [REDACTED]. Gilbert hadn’t seen him in years. Rod, the younger one, lived in Sheridan, a block away from his mother, worked in [REDACTED] in a video-rental store. He was married and had two children, twin girls, whom Gilbert had seen only once and had never touched nor held. The little girls had never been to the ranch. The boy’s wife, Debra, worked, too, answering the telephone at Equality Cowboy Travel. Gilbert sometimes dreamed that they would have more children—boys—and that these little grandsons would love the ranch, would grow up knowing what a beautiful place the Wolfscales owned. They would love it as he did and take it on when he went.
Gilbert’s mother turned eighty-one. The purple sponge, though somewhat faded, was largely unchanged, not to be used. She took to rummaging through the desk looking for pencil and paper, settled on a little notebook, spiral-bound at the top and with lined paper. She spent hours at the kitchen table bent over this notebook, thinking, occasionally scrawling something down or erasing everything, tearing out the spoiled sheet and crumpling it.
“What are you writin, Ma? Your biography? Cowgirl poetry?”
“No,” she said and put her arm around the notebook so he couldn’t see it, like a child protecting a test paper from a cheating neighbor.
On a very cold March day he went into town to the ranch-equipment center; the used aircraft tires he’d ordered for the bush hog were in. If the weather warmed up later in the week he’d work on pulling old sagebrush out of the three-mile pasture. In town the bank thermometer read minus two and a harsh wind made it seem like the freezing pits of Hell. He ordered a pizza. Clouds were moving in as he drove back, eating the cheesy slices, and as he turned in to the ranch the first fine flakes fell through the air.
The house was silent. He thought his mother might be napping and went out to the shop, where he changed the bush hog’s tires. The days were growing longer and he worked until twilight. Back in the house he was disturbed by the deep silence. Usually his mother watched crime programs on television at this hour. He went to her room and knocked on the door.
“Ma! Ma, you O.K.? I’m goin a start supper now.” There was no answer. He opened the door and saw his mother would not again want any supper.
It was a shock to learn that her bank account was at flat zero. He couldn’t understand what she had spent the money on. He remembered her telling him when she broke her hip that she had over six thousand dollars set aside for “—you know.” And he did know. For her funeral costs. He had to scratch to come up with the money for a decent coffin.
Cleaning out her room, he came across the spiral-bound notebook. It was filled with plaintive letters to the [REDACTED] State Allocation Department, asking when her inheritance would come. Folded in the front of the notebook was the original letter. He telephoned the number at the bottom of the page but got a message that the number had been disconnected. Gilbert began to guess there was some sort of scam. He called Sheriff Brant Smich, asked him if he knew anything about [REDACTED] State Allocation.
“Hell, yes. You get a letter from them sayin about you inherited some money and askin for your bank-account numbers? Don’t believe none of it. Don’t answer them. Bring the letter to the post office. They’re after that outfit for mail fraud.”
With his mother gone, civilization began to fall away from him like feathers from a molting hen. In a matter of weeks he was eating straight from the frying pan.

As is usual in the ranch world, things went from bad to worse. The drought settled deeper, like a lamprey eel sucking at the region’s vitals. He had half-seen the scores of trucks emblazoned CPC—Consolidated Petroleum Company—speeding along the dusty road for the past year, and knew that they were drilling for coal-bed methane on public land adjacent to his ranch. They pumped the saline wastewater laden with mineral toxins into huge containment pits. The water was no good, he knew that, and it seemed a terrible irony that in such arid country water could be worthless. He had always voted Republican and supported energy development as the best way to make jobs in the hinterland. But when the poison wastewater seeped from the containment pits into the groundwater, into Bull Jump Creek, into his alfalfa irrigation ditches, even into the household well water, he saw it was killing the ranch.

He fought back. Like other ranchers who once again felt betrayed by state and federal government, he wrote letters and went to meetings protesting coal-bed methane drilling and the hundreds of service roads and drill rigs and heavy trucks that were tearing up the country. The meetings were strange, for ecological conservationists and crusty ranchers came together in the same room, in agreement for once. He noted with satisfaction that the schoolteacher, Dan Moorhen, a bleeding-heart liberal ecology-minded freak, admitted that ranchers were the best defense against developers chopping up the land, that ranches and ranchers kept the Old West alive. When the gas-company reps or politicians came, the meetings were rancorous and loud and at the end people signed petitions with such force their pens ripped the paper, but it all meant nothing. The drilling continued, the poison water seeped, the grass and sage and alfalfa died. All he could do was hang on to the place.
He was unprepared for the telephone call from a neighbor, Fran Bangharmer. It was the morning of the Fourth of July.
“Too bad about Suzzy, all that right on the front page, too.”
“What do you mean?” he said. “What was on the front page?”
“Arrested for embezzlin. Monday’s paper.”
“What!” Fran’s voice was subtly triumphant, tinged with Schadenfreude, but Gilbert barely listened, hung up as soon as he could and drove into town to find a three-day-old paper and read for himself that his ex-wife had, for years, been siphoning tax money into a private bank account by a complex series of computer sleights of hand he could not understand.
He went to the county jail and tried to see her but was turned away.
“She don’t want to see you, Gib, and she’s got that right.”
Half of the stores in town were closed for the holiday. Already there were clusters of people along the sidewalk, although the parade didn’t start until one o’clock. In despair he drove down to [REDACTED] to the video store where Rod worked. It was open, the windows draped with red-white-and-blue ribbons. A huge poster read: “rodeo days! july 4 to10!”
He found his younger son stocking the shelves with gaudy boxes. As he stood behind him he noticed the son’s thinning hair and felt the hot breath of passing time.
“Rod?” he said, and the young man turned around.
“Dad.” They looked at each other and the son dropped his eyes. Gilbert could smell his son’s after-shave lotion. He himself had never used the stuff in his life.
“I came to . . . I want to . . . Well. Your mother?”
“Yeah. Do you want a have lunch?”
“You mean dinner?”
The son flushed at the old-fashioned word. “Yeah. ‘Dinner.’ Go down the KFC and eat in the car.”
“I come in the truck. Come on, let’s go.”
“I got a tell somebody I’m goin.”
That’s what it was like, thought Gilbert, working for somebody else. You had to tell them what you did or were going to do and they could say no.
He drove to the fast-food strip at the north end of town, shouted into the drive-through intercom. Sitting in the truck, the windows down and the hot sun burning their arms, they gnawed at the salty, overspiced chicken, huge crumbs falling. They both sucked on straws stuck into vanilla milkshakes.
“I tried a see her,” said Gilbert. “She wouldn’t see me.”
“She’s still pretty bitter, you know. Feels like her life was wasted, or at least some years of it. She’s that way. She takes a position and that’s it. You can’t argue her out of nothin. She’s stubborn.”
“I know that pretty well. How’s it affectin you that your mother is a crook and a jailbird?” He glanced sideways at Rod, seeing the pale, indoor complexion, the clerk’s shirt with creases ironed into the sleeves. The boy had the heavy Wolfscale jaw and beaky nose.
“Hell, I don’t know. I don’t think of it that way. People look at me kind a funny but they don’t say nothin. Except Deb. She is gettin a lot a snide comment down at the travel agency. It’s no fun for her. It’s my girls I worry about, if some kid at school this fall is goin a taunt them.”
“Kids got short memories. By the time school starts they won’t recall it. What do you think they’ll do to her?”
“Probly go pretty light. She’s got a good lawyer. You know, she made restitution of about twelve grand. That’ll count for a lot. They already got a lien on the house, repossessed her car. That’s what she used the most a the money for, buy the house and fix it up. That house was everthing to her. She put in a swimmin pool two years ago.”
“I used a wonder how she could afford it. And I heard a couple years ago that she went out to Las Vegas?” He couldn’t believe he’d found a packet of salt beneath the flabby biscuit. Did anyone ever think their chicken not salty enough?
“It was a whole bunch a them that work at the county offices. They all went. She won four thousand bucks.”
For some reason this remark incensed Gilbert. Rod said it with a tone of pride that his lying, cheating, stealing, double-dealing mother had won some money gambling. He changed the subject abruptly. “What do you hear from your brother?”
“Aw, he calls up now and then. We get together with him when we take Arlene down to [REDACTED] for her treatment. You know she’s had that cancer. It’s in remission now and you’d never know she’d been sick a day.”
Gilbert did not know his granddaughter had been sick a day. He shuddered. In the distance he could hear a school marching band. [REDACTED]’s parade was starting, or maybe just warming up.
“Is he still workin for that roofin contractor?”
“Well, no. He’s workin in a restaurant. He’s workin in a Jap restaurant. But he’s healthy, thank God, considerin his—life style.”
“What does that mean, his ‘life style’?” Gilbert wiped his hands of the chicken, wadded the napkin, and thrust it into the grease-stained box.
“Well, he’s—you know.”
“I know what?”
“Dad, it’s not up to me to say nothin about Monty.” Rod was folding and crushing the box. He wiped his right hand on his pants leg.
“I ain’t heard or seen him for quite a few years. Not likely to. Now what the hell is this about his ‘life style’?”
“For Christ sake, Dad. It’s nothin. Just he’s sort a—more—sophisticated. He likes a different kind a stuff than most people come from Wyomin.”
“I hear you talkin but I don’t know what you’re sayin.”
But he did. As a child Monty had hung around the kitchen and his mother constantly, and to get him to help with chores had been more labor than doing the jobs himself. That is, until Myrl Otter came to work on the ranch on weekends. Myrl was a big blond Scandinavian type, muscular and good-looking. The man’s wife had her work cut out for her keeping an eye on him, as girls flirted with Myrl and he reciprocated willingly. After he came to work on the ranch Monty began to tag after the fellow like a yellowjacket after pears. Gilbert noticed, but as the boy was only seven or eight it seemed just a little kid’s fancy, nothing much. Kids got attached to dogs and blankets and maybe even hired men. He thought nothing of it and after a few months Myrl Otter, in the way of so many ranch hands, stopped showing up for work and Gilbert had forgotten him until now. The marching music, carried by the light wind, seemed nearer.

“I better get goin. Don’t want a get tied up in that damn parade.” He got out, threw his chicken box at the trash can. Rod, too, tossed his crumpled box, but it hit the side of the can and sprayed chicken bones.
“Forget it,” said Gilbert. “They get paid a pick up.”
He dropped Rod back at the video store and headed north, thinking to beat the parade by taking a side street, but he was too late. He stopped for a red light that wouldn’t change and the parade came surging around a corner, passing in front of him, and he had to wait. A section of the high-school band straggled past, sweaty kids, many of them obese, their white marching trousers bunched at the crotch. He remembered schoolmates in his own childhood, skinny, quick ranch kids, no one fat and sweaty, Pete Kitchen looking like he was made of kindling wood and insulation wire, Willis McNitt small enough to shit behind a sagebrush and never be noticed.
Behind the band came two teen-age boys dressed as Indians, breechclouts over swim trunks, a load of beads around their necks, black wigs with braids and feathers. One carried a bongo drum, striking it irregularly with his hand. Their skin had been darkened with some streaky substance. Then two men whom he recognized as Sheridan car mechanics slouched along in buckskin suits and fur hats, carrying antique flintlocks. One had a demijohn that he lifted to his lips every thirty seconds, crying “Yee-haw!” The other had a few shiny No. 2 traps over his shoulder. Gilbert could see the hardware-store price tags on them. He knew he was going to get the whole hokey Wild West treatment before he could move.
Now came two horses, both bearing kids dressed as cowboys, in heavy woolly chaps, pearl-button Western shirts, limp bandannas, big hats, and boots. Both twirled guns on their fingers, aiming at friends in the crowd. They were followed by a stock outlaw and a sheriff’s posse, and behind them half the town’s women and small children in pioneer regalia—long calico dresses, aprons and sunbonnets, big Nikes flashing incongruously with every step. One of these women was Patty Codenhead and for a moment he was startled at how much she looked like the photograph of his father’s mother in the china cupboard. It was the costume, he thought. The parade came down to a few trick riders in neon satin, and Sedley Alwen, who, crazy or not, was in every public procession showing off his roping skills, stepping in and out of his fluid loops and somehow avoiding the horse manure that marked the path. The last of all was a CPC pickup, three hard-hatted methane-gas workers sitting in back smoking cigarettes and joking with each other. Now he could go.
He could go but he found it difficult to step on the accelerator. The light turned green, red, then green again, yet he couldn’t move until drivers behind him began to sound their horns. There had been something wrong with the parade, something seriously wrong, but he couldn’t think what.
Driving through the open country on the way back, he forgot the parade and thought about Monty and what form his “sophistication” might take, about his embezzling wife, the other son who had not bothered to tell him that his grandchild had cancer. He couldn’t tell the size of things. He was very thirsty and blamed the salty chicken.
The buildings and traffic fell away and he was on the empty road, the dusty sage flying past, the white ground. The sky was a hard cheerful blue, empty but for a few torn contrails. Plastic bags impaled on the barb fences flapped in the hot wind. A small herd of pronghorn in the distance had their heads down. He saw his neighbor’s cattle spread out on the parched land and it came to him that there had been no ranchers in the parade—it was all pioneers, outlaws, Indians, and gas.
He knew what kind of furniture Jesus would pick for his place in [REDACTED]. He would choose a few small pines in the National Forest, go there at night, fell and limb them, debark the sappy rind with a spud, exposing the pale, worm-tunnelled wood, and from the timbers he would make the simplest round-legged furniture, everything pegged, no nails or screws.
He wished his mother were still alive. He’d say to her, “One thing sure. He wouldn’t get hisself tangled up with no ranch.” It didn’t come close to saying what he meant but it was all he could do. 

