  MEASURING THE JUMP
By Dave Eggers

Three hours on I-5 so far, straight as a tightrope, and every twenty minutes or so he sees one of those birds. Always near the roadside, on bent fenceposts or hopping in the gray flossy grass, they look like crows but with breasts a militant strain of orange. They come with an eerie regularity, ten already, and they are alone. Fish, approaching thirty and driving eighty, doesn’t know what to call these birds. They are wretched birds.
It’s a stultifying, merciless drive from San Jose to [REDACTED]—you’d think it was [REDACTED] or [REDACTED] if you couldn’t, faintly, sense the sea air coming over the western hills. Inland like this, it’s hotter and more humid than Fish, who grew up in [REDACTED], wants [REDACTED] to be. Heat echoes off the road in liquid waves, cars heave with asthma, and Fish’s penis is sticking to his thigh in a way that seems irrevocable. It’s actually a decent drive for a while—all those velour hills lit pink by the dropping of a barn-red sun—but then the road just goes, moaning its way south, and it’s so straight you want to chop your goddam head off.
Fish tells himself, audibly, not for the first time, that he would kill his cousin Adam if he had the chance and could get away with it. As children, he and Adam were made to think of each other as brothers, because their mothers were close and neither of them had a male sibling. But they looked nothing alike, and Adam was an only child, while Fish has a younger sister, Mary, married now and with two sets of twins, all of them freckled and insane—they jump on visitors like dogs. Adam lived in Aurora and Fish lived in Galena, so they saw each other only once a month and in the summers went on uneventful canoe trips in lower [REDACTED] with groups of angry kids, wearing bandannas and white rope bracelets.
Fish is driving to see Adam—there goes another one of those black birds, with plumage like a chest exploding—because Adam has tried to kill himself again. This is his seventh attempt, and now Fish knows he should have flown. San Jose, he’s almost sure, has a direct flight to [REDACTED], less than an hour in the air. Every time he finishes this drive he vows never again, and then two months later he’s here, punching the window, back soaked, left arm sunburned, cursing himself. Fish decides that he’s the dumbest person he knows, aside from Adam, of course, and the guy on the local news who pronounces the “s” in “[REDACTED].”
Five hours at least, this drive, plenty of time to come up with a plan, and he tries to concentrate on Adam but finds himself constantly adrift and onto other subjects, like food and war. Years ago he thought he could have an effect on Adam’s life, but now he knows he’s a spectator, a parent watching a child’s sporting event, hands twisted into fists, unable to influence the outcome.
Fish passes a huge beef-processing plant, where a hundred thousand cows are crammed so close they can’t move their tails enough to swat flies. There is no earth visible below their doomed hides. He rolls up the window, the stench vile, punishing. Those stupid cows, he thinks, born to die, born to be eaten, born to walk in their own feces. Jesus! It smells fetid, bloody and sweet, like human innards, if you could open yourself up and bring it all to your nose and inhale.
Adam doesn’t talk to his mom or to Fish’s parents, and he’s never had a job, none that Fish can recall, which in a way is impressive—how he’s been able to get by for so many years without any sort of legitimate income. There are people who do this, who divert just enough energy and funds and good will from those close to them to exist without anyone taking much notice; it’s like stealing cable, but on a larger scale. Fish has given Adam about twenty-two hundred dollars over the years, which he has used frugally; he is clever that way. He’s clever in every way, really, even in surviving so many attempts on his own life. Maybe he’s unkillable, Fish thinks, and he suddenly snorts out loud at the thought.
Fish’s other cousin, Chuck, a tax lawyer in [REDACTED] with the face of a priest, pink and surprised, says that Adam looks about forty now, even though he’s only twenty-eight. The drugs do that, Chuck says. Chuck should know. Fish hasn’t seen Adam in almost a year and now he’s afraid to. If Adam looks old, it means that Fish is old and they’re both old, everyone’s old, and— Damn, another one of those birds. There must be a name for those things.
Adam’s hope, Fish is sure, is to be the shape-shifting mystery spot in the life of his family and friends. The problem is that Fish has never had a fascination with people who try to kill themselves, and in most ways Adam is nowhere near as strange, for example, as the guy who delivers Fish’s mail, a man named Kojo.
“Short for Kojak?” Fish asked when they met. It was a dusty day, orange, windy, the sun like a planet of sand. The mailman laughed. He laughed for about ten minutes over that one. Fish was flattered, then he was scared. Kojo liked to laugh, laughing in a big, clapping way, but he didn’t like to wear the postal pants. He always wore the shorts, no matter how cold it got.
He came into Fish’s house once for a beer, and he drank with his mouth all around the bottle, as if he were fellating it. Then he unrolled his sleeve and showed Fish a skin graft he’d got—just for the wack of it, he said. “Took some skin from my lower back and put it on my arm.” The pores in the new skin were smaller and the surface was smoother, less weathered. There are doctors, Kojo said, who’ll do anything for the right money.
A week later Kojo brought Fish a collage, the kind junior-high girls assemble, with phrases cut from women’s magazines—“Only Best Friends Know!” “Quiz: Are His Pals the Real Deal?”—pasted over pictures, cut from books, of Winnie the Pooh and Piglet flying kites together, walking through the woods at night, among trees with muscular trunks and eyes that watch.
Fish attracts these people. In high school there was an older guy, a senior when he was a sophomore, tall and bent backward. He had a huge, almost perfectly square head, and he wanted Fish to drive cross-country with him, though they’d talked only once, briefly, while they were watching the girls’ swim team practice.
“I like butterfly,” the guy had said. His name was either Brendan or Brandon or Stuart.
“Butterfly’s good,” Fish had said.
That had been their conversation, all of it, and two months later a breathless Brandon appeared, grinning, forehead wet with concentration, when Fish was walking out to soccer practice. “Don’t say no, Fish. We’re gonna head out and fuck this fucking school and drive to [REDACTED]. Fuck this fucking fuck!”

Fish, not wanting to say no, just said “Sorry,” and followed the rest of the team over the hill, to the upper field, rectangular but sloping on every side, like a freshly filled grave.
When Kojo presented the collage to Fish, insisting that he open it there in the doorway, Fish didn’t know what to say. So he thanked Kojo, made plans to see him three weeks hence—they’d have a beer at the end of the month, just tear it up—then, the next morning, Fish got himself a post-office box.
Fish is driving, slapping himself to stay alert, and he’s counting, to make sure it’s been seven times. One: the wrists (with an actual saw on his thin, paper-white arms). Two: poison—he drank floor wax, first pouring it into a glass. Three: the gunshot to the stomach. More like the side of the stomach—the bullet grazed him, then went through his window and into the Episcopal church next door. No one was killed or hurt, but Adam felt so bad about it that, four, he stabbed himself in the leg with a cleaver. Five: he tried bringing a hair dryer into the tub with him, but it was suicide-proof, apparently—it turned itself off, leaving Adam shivering, the water having gone cold while he’d got up the nerve. Six: what was six? A car driven into a tree? There was debate about whether that one had been intentional.
This time, two nights ago, Adam, half drunk—he was usually impaired when he tried these things—jumped off a motel roof. At least, that’s what Chuck heard from the paramedic who found Adam, unconscious in the parking lot, splayed like a buck on the hood of a truck. It was about forty feet down, Chuck said.
Adam could have jumped into a dry gorge a few blocks from the motel and he would have died for sure—the dropoff there was about a hundred feet. Instead, he fell forty feet, into the courtyard, broke his collarbone, cracked his left leg, bent his spine.
The road is quiet. I-5 is split, a narrow valley between the comers and the goers, so Fish, his brain marshy and his eyes glazed, can see only the cars that are heading in his own direction. Fish likes to see the faces of people going the other way, to construct stories about them, wish them well or ill, but this is nothing. This drive makes you want to freeze the world and shatter it with a fucking hammer.
How does anyone get used to the words “marines killed”? This morning Fish was digging holes in the back yard—holes for posts for a bigger and more elevated deck he’d never build—and had pulled the TV out onto the back porch. Those words came up again and again. And don’t show the damned pictures! Jesus, no. His nerves were already shot, the sun his enemy, when Chuck called from [REDACTED] and described what Adam had done.
“I’m not going this time,” Fish said.
“I can get there four days from now,” Chuck said. “Do one day before I come. Make sure he’s not paralyzed. Check that they have him in a real room and everything.” Two years ago, after No. 3, Chuck arranged insurance for Adam, a good plan, and was frequently checking to make sure he was getting his money’s worth.
Chuck doesn’t know Adam all that well, and thus his benevolence can be less complicated than Fish’s. He never shared a bedroom with Adam. He never found Adam’s crusty tissues stuffed, like brains displayed in a jar, in a curvy blue bottle he’d won at a carnival. He never caught Adam rubbing down Mary’s legs after track, his hands all over her calves.
Fish is driving a rental car. He called that place where they pick you up in a sedan wrapped in brown paper. He called the agency at about noon and they said they’d send the car over at two. He waited in his house. Between twelve and two, he sat, straddling boredom and a new, trembling kind of feeling. He pictured a game he and Adam used to play—it was Adam’s only good toy—where tiny metal football players move around on a field vibrating below them. It was a strange game, because you couldn’t really control the little bastards—you just watched as the field sent them jerking around, crowding together or falling alone.
Fish watched some of the national aerobics championship. He closed all the cabinets and, using his new drill, tightened all the hinges. He walked to the stationery shop to see if he could buy Adam anything. They didn’t have much. He got a card congratulating him on his bat Mitzvah, thinking that it was funny, knowing Adam wouldn’t get the joke.
Outside, it was summer. He bought a red Sno-Kone, wrapped in the same weak waxy paper they’ve been using for a hundred years, from a tiny man with a cart. He held it gingerly between his fingers. He didn’t want to eat that ice—it was so right, that red dome, like a tiny lost moon he could hold in his hand.
It began to melt, so he ate it in gulps.
He returned home, thinking maybe he should wait another day, or even two. The sooner he got there, really, the sooner Adam would feel well enough to leave the hospital, and the sooner he’d try it again. The longer Adam was in the hospital, probably restrained in some effective way, the better. He was content, Fish was sure; Adam was always content in a hospital, at least for a week or so.
At two-thirty, Fish called the rental place and they said they were on their way and could he give them his address again. He did, and waited.
At three o’clock, he called again and it was a new guy on the phone. New guy said he had no record of Fish’s reservation. “You know,” Fish said, “that’s messed up. I’ve been waiting forever and I have to get down to goddam [REDACTED].” New guy sighed and said he’d look again. Then he got back on the phone and said that he was sorry, that he’d found the reservation posted on the bulletin board.
“Someone,” he said, “put it up on the board without telling anyone else.” He was directing this to some nameless offscreen co-worker.
“Sure,” Fish said, “but isn’t that what the goddam board is for, so you don’t have to tell everyone about it?” Fish wanted a look at that office. “Jesus,” he added. “That’s really fucked.”
“Well, I am sorry,” new guy said.
“I have a friend in the hospital, motherfucker.” Fish was surprised; he hadn’t contemplated that sentence. He realized that this was one of those moments when one’s impatience—or perhaps the word is rage—was being misdirected. All the same, he thought he’d very much like to punch the new guy till he whispered.
New guy told Fish someone would come get him soon, and then hung up. Fish went into the tiny yellow yard in front of his house and took the croquet wickets out of the grass. They’d been sitting there for three months, since Mary’s kids had been over. They couldn’t play to save their lives, those kids. They didn’t care about the rules, either. They just hit the balls like monkeys, squawking and swinging and running into the street.

Now it’s seven o’clock, two hours to go. This drive would kill anyone.
Adam’s mouth curves too much. He’s never been able to smile without smirking, or listen without sneering. It isn’t his fault, really. He just has too many muscles there, in that area around his mouth.
He moved away, to [REDACTED], just before high school, so Fish didn’t see him much, but one summer, right after Adam’s parents separated and he and Fish were too old for camp, Adam stayed with Fish’s family in Galena. At first he slept in the basement, next to the dartboard. When he complained about the ticking and groaning of the water heater, he was moved to Fish’s bedroom. It was a small room with a single window, over Fish’s bed, painted shut, the lower corners covered in stickers with google eyes and holograms.
That summer, when Adam played football with Fish’s friends every Sunday at the park, he tackled too hard and argued too much. Fish apologized for him, but everyone figured he was just intense, had something to prove, like the kids who’d tried out for the team but missed the last cut. Adam, though, was different, less in control, less focussed on the outcome of the game.
He broke a guy’s leg once. One warm weekend they had about twenty playing. They’d set up cones one guy had borrowed from his construction job, and figured they could have a proper kickoff, like the pros. So they booted the ball and started running like madmen at each other, and this kid McGrady, older but spindly, everywhere elbows and knees, caught the kickoff, the ball delivering a thump to his concave chest. He was running for the sideline, when Adam burst through the pack unblocked and just flew, for a frozen second almost perfectly horizontal, then speared him, his shoulders plowing into McGrady’s legs. There was a crack like a broken bat, and everyone cheered because McGrady was barely out of the end zone and his team would be screwed for field position. But then tiny McGrady went red, blood swimming in his face, and he was holding his leg, one hand on either side, gently, like it was too hot to touch.
The leg, the tibia, was snapped in two. It was a battlefield kind of gore, the bone poking through like a stick through a garbage bag.
“You see that, what I did?” Adam said. Fish had found him up the hill, by the new playground, hiding in a chute. He thought Adam was going to brag about hitting the guy so hard, but instead he said, “Why the hell would I break some kid’s leg? What the hell is wrong with me?”
Fish told him that it was an accident, it wasn’t his fault, it was football, a violent game, so what. Now Adam was pulling on the skin under his chin, grabbing it and pinching it. “I shouldn’t play tackle,” Adam said, pulling harder. “I’m not surprised this happened. I’ve thought about something like this, you know? When I get hold of someone I just get too . . . I feel like I want to tear them in half, you know what I’m saying?”
Fish nodded. Adam seemed to be horrified and proud and enthralled all at the same time. He had a glow that just wasn’t right, the wild glow of a scientist who’d discovered a formula that could kill millions.
The ambulance was loading McGrady now, and had pulled right up onto the field, which everyone thought was great; that had never happened before. Fish walked with Adam across the grass, now black and wet, without saying much. The light was almost gone, so they headed home, afraid of the night that would soon bring Monday. Into the house, through the mudroom, past Fish’s parents playing Pong and up the stairs, Fish quiet, now running his fingers over each baluster, while Adam talked, sighed, touching nothing.
Fish finds a parking space under a wide wall of the hospital, pink-bricked and bisected by the kind of steel ladder you see on water towers—a fire escape, maybe. The grounds are lavish, or seem so in the dark—cobblestone paths winding around willows and palmettos, sprinklers hissing. As Fish is walking in, a man in institutional blue holds the door for him.
Fish says thank you, tells the man, an aide of some kind, where he’s headed, and the aide, in his scrubs and with plastic bags around his shoes, walks Fish all the way to the Nursing/Trauma Unit. “I’d just confuse you otherwise,” he says. Fish isn’t sure if that’s an insult or what.
Adam is in Room 318, on the far side of the building. Fish hopes that he doesn’t have a roommate, because the roommates in hospitals are always deformed and either too sick or not sick enough to be there in the first place, and they listen to conversations and make judgments. But when he gets to the room there’s no roommate, just a twig of a woman, owlish and sallow, sitting on a chair near Adam, eating a brownie.
Fish waves hello to the brownie woman and walks around to Adam. He lies flat, with a neck brace on, staring at the ceiling. Fish puts his face in Adam’s line of vision.
“Hey,” Adam says, surprised.
Fish grunts.
Adam doesn’t look forty. He looks twelve. He’s wearing a baseball cap, and his face isn’t wrinkly or strung out or gaunt. With his freckles and the cap, he has the aura of a kid who’s just had his tonsils out.
“What’s the hat?” Fish asks. It bears a minor-league team’s logo, showing a beaver holding a bat he’s apparently been chewing on.
“What are you doing here?” Adam asks. His eyes open a little more, catching the glare of a car’s headlights in the parking lot.
“Who gave it to you?” Fish says.
“One of the nurses. Ronnie.”
“Do you get to keep it, or is it just for here?”
“I don’t know. I think I can keep it. Did you drive down?”
“Yeah.”
“Wow. Thanks, man.”
“That’s a bitch of a drive,” Fish says.
“I know. Sorry. Thanks.”
On his mobile table are remnants of dinner or lunch or both—uneaten tapioca and two tangelos, and beside them a little tilting pagoda of Tupperware. The lady with the brownie has finished with the brownie and is now cleaning her nails with a pin she had on her lapel. Fish nods to Adam and jerks his head toward her. She has a hospital [REDACTED] tag clipped to her blouse.
“She sits here with me,” he says. “They’ve got someone in here all the time so I don’t do anything.” It’s clear that Adam is happy they think he’s such a serious customer, such a dangerous man. Fish looks over at the brownie woman to see if she’s listening, but she isn’t; she’s watching a movie on Adam’s TV—Fred Thompson is playing the President, and is wearing that dissatisfied look he favors. Fish stares out the window. In the parking lot, the cars are colored copper by the light from above, the lamps bent over them like tall thin saints over babies. He sees his rental and misses being inside it.

Adam is holding a little tube with a button on it.
“Is that for morphine?” Fish asks.
“Yeah,” Adam says.
“So you try to jump off a building, and they give you an unlimited supply of drugs.”
“No. I can only get a certain amount each hour. They’ve got it figured out.”
Fish knows it’s just a matter of time before Adam starts telling him why he jumped off the motel roof, but he doesn’t want to hear it. Oh, if only it were interesting! he thinks. But it never is. It’s always “I wanted to hurt myself. I don’t know why.” Nothing of any interest will get said by either of them. Adam will say “I feel so dark sometimes” or “It’s like I see things sometimes . . . through a dark water.” Adam wants Fish to understand, but Fish isn’t interested, and, besides, he’ll call Adam on where he stole that dark-water part—“The Executioner’s Song,” his favorite book—and remind him of a hundred ways the two of them, Fish and Adam, are equal in this darkness bullshit. They’ve seen the same things, they have the same urges. Adam will concede this, and will begin apologizing for everything, and for too long. He’s too contrite, too docile.
But at some point they’ll start making plans for when Adam is discharged. This is the only part that ever interests Fish: the steps from here on out. Fish will get inspired, laying out what will happen in the first few days, the weeks after, every move for years: first, a different apartment in a new city, away from the therapist fuckups in [REDACTED] who keep prescribing things for Adam, then a menial job while doing some kind of night school, and finally a woman, older, hardened but warm, eyes that could love and kill.
“So how’s Mary?” Adam asks.
“She’s good,” Fish says.
“Where’s she living now?”
“I can’t tell you.”
“You can’t tell me where Mary lives?”
“No.”
“Why?”
“Because she’s got little kids, Adam, and you’re a guy who shoots himself and jumps off roofs. Fuck you.”
For a second Adam looks hurt, or pretends to look hurt, then he closes his eyes. His chin is brown and tied together with black string, spiked along the suture, as if spiders had been sewn into his face.
“Ow. Don’t,” Adam says.
Fish is touching it.
“Why not?”
“I got stitches there. Stop it, prick.”
“How many?” It’s like a cactus or something. The stitches are amazing.
“Twelve. Get the fuck away.”
Fish gives him a look.
“Sorry,” Adam says. But he has no rights here. After five hours of driving, Fish is allowed to touch what he wants. Fish remembers the card and drops it on Adam’s chest. Adam tries to look down at it.
“You have to hold it up. I can’t see.”
Fish opens it and shows him the front. It’s an elephant surrounded by Hebrew letters, with “Happy Bat Mitzvah” written below.
“A Jewish elephant,” Adam says.
“I guess so,” Fish says.
Fish used to like hospitals. Waiting rooms in particular. When his last girlfriend, Annie, had her appendix out, he was at the hospital for thirty hours and had a pretty good time. He met about ten people—there was some strange collegial vibe that night. They played cards and Fish won a hundred and twenty-two dollars on a straight flush from a guy whose brother was getting a finger reattached. He’d been drilling a hole through his son’s wall, thought the kid was selling crystal meth and wanted to catch him. That had been a good night.
But with Adam he doesn’t want to stay. Fish looks at the clock. It says eight-forty. He’ll leave at nine, he decides. Then he’ll call Annie to see if he can stay with her for the night. Annie follows local politics and has ridiculous lips, full like balloon animals, a voice lower than his. The last time Fish saw her she scratched his head so masterfully, in circles so convincing, that he thought he was rising, ascending. They talk often enough, and she lives in [REDACTED], and he figures he’ll drive over after, not for sex or even romance, just for a place to rest where there’s breathing other than his own, where he won’t have to leave the TV on all night to know he’s not dead. If she’s not around he’ll drive back to San Jose tonight. He could do it. Through the night is easier.
“Does your mom know?” Fish asks. He knows that Adam’s mom doesn’t know, because Adam told Chuck that if she found out he’d do it for real next time.
“No. I don’t think so,” Adam says.
Adam’s father died a few years ago, a botched bypass, and now his mother lives in [REDACTED]. She went there to live with a man she’d met in a community-theatre production of “Fiorello!” He played the lead, though apparently he was six feet four and blond.
A nurse comes in. She’s Filipino, young. Her nametag says “Hope.” Fish feels an urge to say something about her name, in light of her working in a hospital and all, but then figures she hears that often enough.
“That’s a good name for a nurse,” he says. What the hell.
She takes Adam’s blood pressure. Fish watches, loving how quickly the armband fills with air, how tight it gets. That device always looks like something illegal.
“How’s your pain?” she asks Adam.
“Good,” Adam says. “I mean, it’s fine.”
The nurse takes the bat-Mitzvah card off Adam’s stomach and puts it on the side table, next to a jar of pink tools, like lollipops but with foam starfish tops. Cleaning devices, maybe, for swabbing mouths or other wet orifices. Fish thinks briefly about taking one of the lollipops and stuffing it up Adam’s fat fucking nose. He almost laughs at the thought of it.
Fish leaves while Adam is drifting in and out, his face blank, almost beatific. During a brief moment when his eyes pull open, Fish tells him he’ll check in again tomorrow.
The night is sharp, all the lights crisp, and Fish drives to the Motel 6 where Chuck said Adam had been staying. He’s supposed to pick up Adam’s things—four bags’ worth. Adam had been living there for a month, after he was asked to leave his halfway house for skinning a chicken in his room. That’s what Chuck said, at least. If Adam did indeed skin a chicken, he did it just to say he’d done it. “Ask for Mr. Ali,” Chuck said. Chuck was about logistics. He served as Adam’s attorney, benefactor, and medical historian. Fish was someone who could drive down and pick up bags.
When he gets to the motel, a women’s volleyball team is checking in. He waits for twenty minutes while they decide who will sleep in whose rooms, and which duffels will stay in the minibus. Fish reads every brochure the lobby offers, and makes a tentative plan to see the irrigation museum.
When it’s his turn Fish asks for Mr. Ali, but the woman at the counter, heavy-lidded, wearing a maize-colored sari, says he’s gone. “I am Mrs. Ali. How should I help you?” Fish shows her the letter that Chuck faxed, asking for Adam’s stuff. Chuck insisted on ending the letter with “I trust that this matter will not present a problem.” Every legal letter Chuck writes ends this way.

Fish can see the bags just behind her, in a narrow hallway with a cement floor. Two clear plastic bags sit there, alert, and two tennis bags, one covered in mud. Mrs. Ali reads the note, then looks up at Fish. It’s then that he almost cries. Water seems to fill his forehead; his eyes are just portals that show he’s drowning. What is she looking at? How much does she know? She must know. The ambulance picked Adam up here, and she or her husband surely packed and stored his belongings. She knew Adam as a flailer, as a leaper, and now knows Fish as someone who picks up the bags of people like Adam. Mrs. Ali is not seeing a dutiful cousin; she’s seeing another product of a tainted gene pool, who very well might be worse than the first. People who live in motels and jump off motel roofs. There’s a highway just above the motel, and on it people are passing this place at eighty miles an hour, wondering what happens in the filthy little world below.
“I have to call Mr. Ali,” she says, and does so, using a receiver that’s larger than her face. She gets off the phone with Mr. Ali and lets Fish into the hallway behind the desk.
“Thanks,” he says on the way out.
“All right,” she says, opening the door for him. “Good!” she adds, and after he’s gone throws the bolt, right to left.
Fish loads the bags into his trunk, and then remembers what he wanted to investigate. He walks over to the courtyard area to see where Adam jumped. He has forgotten to look until now, and is suddenly thrilled. But he can’t find a part of the motel complex that has three or four stories. There is just the one two-story building, in an L shape around the pool, and its roof is only about eighteen feet high. Dumbshit! Fish has figured it out. Forty feet isn’t Adam’s way, after all, but eighteen feet is. He jumped from this. Who jumps eighteen feet? Who does this? This is so wrong. There are too many things wrong everywhere for this kind of thing, this jumping from eighteen-foot roofs. Adam must have known that eighteen feet wasn’t far enough to kill himself, just far enough to hurt like hell. And the only thing worse than an eighteen-foot motel roof is the imbecile staring at it.
He goes back to the car and opens the trunk. He reaches inside one of the plastic bags, looking for something solid. Most of it is soft, and here and there moist, but he soon finds a trophy, a small one with a tennis player on top and someone else’s name engraved on it. Elsewhere between the folds of clothes and socks there is some deodorant, a handful of tapes, which Fish pulls out for the drive home, and a bottle of cologne called Together, which makes him laugh. Adam is the only guy he knows who wears cologne. The only other contents of note are five belts, wound as one like a rattlesnake, and a huge container of baby powder.
A woman is walking across the lot toward Fish. Every part of her is moving—her ankles, unsteady in heels; her arms swinging; her head, which jitters with each step, as if it, too, played a part in her propulsion. Her features are mismatched—small chin, wide nose, the icy, almost clear eyes of a wolf. She’s wearing jeans and a denim jacket, with pointy blue velveteen boots, the streamlined, utilitarian body of a tomboy teen-ager.
“Hi,” she says.
“Hi,” he says.
“What’re you doing?” she asks. “Coming or going?”
She reminds him of the [REDACTED] somehow; he thinks of [REDACTED] and doesn’t know why. Is she nineteen or thirty? Fish can’t tell.
“I’m packing this stuff up,” he says.
“Then?”
“Then I’m driving down to see a friend.” It’s after ten and he hasn’t called Annie yet. If he calls too late there’s no way she’ll let him come over.
“Can you give me a ride?” the woman says. “I’m trying to get to [REDACTED].”
“Oh. Yeah. See, I’m not going that far.”
Behind them, a truck parks and sighs.
“I know, but I can get out wherever you stop.”
He looks at her to see if she has a gun or a crowbar. He wants to help, but he also wants to leave. Not long ago, at a gas station in Daly City, a guy told Fish that he didn’t have any cash, and could Fish spot him twenty dollars—he’d give Fish a personal check in exchange. Fish figured he’d be less than human if he said no, so he said yes. The man had a car, after all, and was wearing a sports coat, so this was just a small transaction between solvent citizens—the guy put his home phone number on the check and everything. But the check bounced.
The thing is, Fish had just wanted to help the guy. He spent that first day thinking he had helped the man, believing in the community of souls, in Daly City or anywhere, and then that man took it away. He reached inside Fish and took that from him.
He gets in the car and unlocks the passenger side. He moves a Jack in the Box bag and a milk carton and now the woman is sitting in the passenger seat, a few inches from him. She picks up the map from the floor, folds it quickly, expertly, and puts it in the side compartment.
“Thanks for this. You’re sweet,” she says, giving him her hand in a royal way. “What’s your name?”
“Eddie,” he says, lying. Her hand is cold. He doesn’t know if he should kiss it or shake it. He doesn’t do either, just holds it for a few seconds and lets it drop.
“That’s weird,” she says. “My brother’s name is Eddie. Was.”
“He changed his name?”
Fish pulls out of the parking lot and onto the frontage road.
“No, he died.”
“Oh, hell. I’m sorry.”
“No worries,” she says.
No worries. He wants to tell her how much he hates that expression, but doesn’t. “Don’t worry” makes sense, is a pat on the arm, a reassurance from one person to another, but “No worries” implies there aren’t any worries anywhere in the world, and that’s just a huge, unvarnished lie.
They get on the highway. Fish asks her name. Her name is Wendy.
“Where’re you going?” she asks.
“Redondo Beach, I think.” That’s where Annie lives. Near the beach, with a futon, in a cave of an apartment next to the garage of a family of five. Her place is full of small glass figurines of mythical animals, ears pinched while the glass was molten—hippogriffs, hydras, satyrs, a tiny sphinx the color of cantaloupe.
“My ex lives in Redondo,” Wendy says. “He’s married now.”
“Huh,” Fish says. She is staring at him. He wonders how he looks in profile.
“So what were you doing at the motel?”
“Nothing. Getting stuff.”
“What stuff?”
“Just some stuff. Friend’s stuff.” Somehow that sounds shady. But he figures he’ll let it go. She seems impressed, and he likes that.

She pushes the radio scan button a few times, and finds that “Oooh-oooh, Jackie Blue” song.

“I love this song,” Wendy says, and slaps her lap loudly. She leaves her hands there, sort of grabbing her thighs. He loves the way a woman’s thighs look when she’s sitting down, the fabric tight around them. Like breasts, they are, in their roundness, their over-all optimism.
“So do you party?” she asks.
“What?”
“Do. You. Party.”
“In general? I don’t—”
“You know. Party.”
“Man, I am lost,” he says.
“You and me, party, handsome. We should go party somewhere. We could stop and get a drink and stuff. Or a room. Get some weed. Whatever.”
Fish knows then what’s up. Normal women don’t call men “handsome”—only waitresses and prostitutes do that. It’s a shame, really. “Handsome” is such a beautiful word.
Fish gives her offer some thought. Her thighs have his head lunging. But it would cost too much, right, spending time with a woman like this? He doesn’t know. How did I get to my age without knowing how much things like this cost? __Forget it. He never takes off his shirt with people he doesn’t know, anyway. She’d see the hair on his shoulders and his hernia scar, much bigger and less straight than it needed to be—bastard doctor—and she’d think he was a bad package, that the hair and the scar were proof he needed to pay for the kind of company she could offer.
“Nah, I gotta get down to Redondo,” he says. “My friend’s waiting for me. And his wife and my mom and everyone. Cousins.” His mouth is adding family members quicker than his head can count. “They’re probably all waiting up.”
“We can be quick, if you want,” Wendy says.
Another orange-and-black bird appears, shooting across the road low and fast. Fish wants to ask Wendy if she knows what they’re called—thrushes? finches? Not that it would make any difference, knowing their name. He glances over at her; her shoulders are squared to him now, her chin lowered. “I’m not expensive,” she says.
Fish pulls off the highway and under a gas-station canopy; it’s bright like daylight and he thinks of Reno. She’s asked to use the bathroom, and her skin looks blue, as if lit from within, and the humidity has lifted. Instead of using the bathroom, though, she heads straight to the pay phone, and while she’s on the phone she waves Fish away like he’s her father dropping her off at a concert. So he leaves.
By the time he gets to a phone to call Annie, it’s too late. He wakes her up, or she pretends to have been asleep. Her first syllable is full of scorn, and he wonders if Wendy is still at the gas station where he left her, just a few miles back. “You have to start thinking of other people, honey,” Annie says, without anger, without anything, and hangs up.
He is back at the hospital twenty minutes later. It’s well after midnight, and he has no hope of getting up to Adam’s room the standard way. He parks his car in the same spot, and calculates which is the right window. He knows that Adam is on the third floor, and the two possible windows are on either side of the steel ladder. So he runs under the willows and through the palmettos and starts up.
It’s the left window. He can see Adam in the light of the TV. His twelve-year-old mug is facing Fish now, eyes closed. The brownie woman has gone.
As Fish is about to tap on the glass, Adam opens his eyes. When he sees Fish, he closes one eye, as if looking through a telescope. Fish waves, and Adam, with his fingers only, waves back.
Fish hasn’t thought any further than this. If he had a specific message for Adam, he could mime it through the glass, but he doesn’t have a specific message.
Adam mouths the word “How?” and points to Fish. Fish is about to mime climbing a ladder but realizes he can’t do this without taking both hands off the rungs. He tries it with one hand, but it looks more like he’s shopping, like he’s doing the shopping-cart dance move. Adam doesn’t get it.
Fish shakes his head, wiping the board clean. He’ll just pry the window open and tumble in and talk. But the window frame is flush to the building. There’s no way to open it.
Fish decides to knock his head on the glass, and does so, twice. Adam smiles. Fish does it a few more times, just to entertain him. Adam pretends to be laughing a lot. It isn’t as great as either of them makes it out to be, but there isn’t anything else to do. Soon Adam yawns. Fish yawns. Adam’s eyes are flickering, so Fish gestures that he’ll see him tomorrow, rolling his hand like he’s creating a wave, the wave meaning tomorrow, rolling and rolling.
Fish drives to Redondo and stays in a Red Roof by the highway. He figures he’ll call Annie in the morning and then see Adam again on his way back north, and do something with all the bags after he’s gone through them and dumped the pills and anything else he doesn’t want Adam to have. He figures he should get him a real suitcase or two, something with a hard shell, sturdy. He can do that tomorrow.
Tomorrow he can put Adam’s stuff in the sturdy suitcases and take them to him, put them in the hospital room, lined up by the door so they’re there when he’s ready to leave. He can show him how he repacked everything, put it all in two rows, pants on one side and shirts on the other, with the second suitcase holding the other things—socks and underwear and toiletries and belts. Tomorrow he can do these things better than he did today. Tomorrow! Tomorrow!
His room is dark, and he knows he’s being stupid. The room smells like people, and he doesn’t deserve this, to be tricked like this again. He is done being fooled. Why would that sports-jacket man jack him on a bad check? It was such violence. He doesn’t want to be a part of the world under the highway. No. No, he’ll skip Annie and Adam and just get a shotgun now and go to that farm on I-5 and shoot a bunch of stupid cows. Ha-ha! They wouldn’t make it, anyway—some animals are built to die. Maybe cut off their heads and hollow them out and wear one as a mask. Yes! The humidity inside one of those big heavy heads—he’d love to see what it’s like in there for a second. His clean hair would be covered in blood, his face wet, filthy from the stuff he didn’t scoop out before he put the fucking thing on. 

