THE BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT
By Tobias Wolff

The No. 64 bus stops at St. Peter’s, so it’s always crammed with pilgrims, or suckers, depending on your point of view—a happy hunting ground for pickpockets. Mallon was not a pilgrim, or by his own reckoning a sucker. His estranged wife was Swiss-Italian, he spoke the language fluently and came often to 4974616c79 on agency business, and was on the 64 that day, a thief’s hand in his pocket, only because he had an appointment near the [REDACTED] and got caught in a flash summer downpour with no cabs in sight.
The bus was packed with wet steamy people. They swayed into one another at the stops and turns, and it was during one of these mash-ups that Mallon felt the hand casing his rear pockets, both empty: his billfold, passport tucked inside, was buttoned into the breast pocket of his suit jacket. The touch was heavy, crude. Before he could turn and give the thief a warning look, the hand slid into his right front pocket. The blatancy of the move was astonishing—executed with no more finesse than if Mallon himself had done it, diving for some change.
The hand went in, and damn if it didn’t stay in. This pocket was empty, too, but the hand seemed unwilling to accept that fact. Mallon became curious as to just how long this could go on. There was a lulling detachment in observing such ineptitude at work, a safe, dreamy amusement. The air was warm, swampy. The bus stopped to take on still more passengers, and the thief was pressed up against Mallon’s back. His hand continued to burrow around like a mouse nosing for crumbs. Then the bus lurched forward and the thief clawed at Mallon’s leg as he stumbled back. This shocked Mallon out of his trance. He braced himself, gathered his strength, and drove his right elbow back into a surprising pillowy softness. A hot blast of breath sprayed his neck and the hand vanished. Mallon turned to gloat and saw a man bent double, arms across his belly. He was making little mewing noises. The passengers around him, mostly Filipinos, by the look of them, watched him anxiously—a short round man all in black, black leather jacket creased across his back, baggy black pants, pointy black shoes as small as a child’s. His scalp showed through his thin dark hair, long strands dangling toward the floor. Nobody looked at Mallon, and already the bus was slowing down for his stop. But the pickpocket was still making those appalling sounds.
Mallon leaned down and took his arm. He tried to raise him but the pickpocket would not be raised. The bus stopped. Let’s go, Mallon said in Italian. Let’s go. You’re all right. Come on. The pickpocket pulled away and kept fighting for breath in strangled gasps. Mallon rested a hand on the man’s back as the door of the bus hissed shut. O.K., he said. Let’s go. Come. Come. He took the pickpocket’s arm again and coaxed him toward the door, steadying him through the jerky weavings of the bus and then the abrupt shuddering stop. The door opened, and he helped the man down the steps, still bent and gasping, people giving way as if for a leper.
The rain had stopped but the sky was dark and menacing. Mallon led the pickpocket under the awning of a shop and watched him retch dramatically, though without result. Mallon patted his shoulder. He could see the passersby keeping their eyes dead ahead, as he would have done, and saw how their faces stiffened with obscure shame. A poster of the Pietà loomed over Mallon in the shopwindow, above a display of pious plaster statuettes and gaudy rosaries.
You don’t want to be seen looking at your watch at such a moment—a man apparently dying at your knees—but the big clock on the sidewalk was completely out of whack, like all the public clocks in 4974616c79, so Mallon really had no choice. It was ten past four. He was ten minutes late, and had at least a five-minute walk back to Dottore Silvestri’s office. An important meeting. Yesterday’s discussion had gone badly, with Mallon pouncing on several misrepresentations in Il Dottore’s proposal. The development agency that Mallon worked for could make all the difference to Silvestri’s program, which envisioned several water-purification projects in East Africa. The distortions in the grant application were only to be expected of such a document, and in fact the board of Mallon’s agency had already decided to back the program. He was here to walk Dottore Silvestri through the terms of the award, not show off his talent for smelling horse shit. He’d given Il Dottore a taste of the lash yesterday, and probably left him thinking that the whole thing was headed down the drain. Mallon needed to correct that impression before it got back to his superiors in [REDACTED].
He leaned down to the pickpocket. The heaving and gasping had stopped, but he was still making a show of his breathlessness. That’s better, Mallon said. Can you stand up? Try to stand up. Here, he said, and gripped the pickpocket’s arm and forced him upright until he saw his face for the first time. It was a round dark face with a small round mouth, lips as full and tender-looking as a girl’s. Despite the sheen of sweat on the puffy cheeks, the vanity of the pencil-line mustache, the sparse streaks of hair plastered across the damp forehead, Mallon had an impression of dignity; dignity, and dignity offended. As the pickpocket labored for breath, he gazed up at Mallon with his dark eyes. How could you? they asked.
Mallon might have said, Because you tried to steal from me. But he was still conscious of the flush of joy he’d felt when his blow struck home—when he knew he’d hurt the man. It lingered in the faint tingling of his skin, an edgy sense of buoyancy, vitality. Where that joy came from he couldn’t say, but he knew that its roots were deeper than some clumsy failed larceny.
Fat drops of rain began to patter on the awning.
How are you? Mallon said. Can you walk?
The pickpocket turned away as if insulted by the hypocrisy of Mallon’s concern. He leaned against the store window with both hands, and his head sank lower as his shoulders rose and fell. A gray-haired woman inside the store rapped on the glass and made a shooing motion. When the pickpocket ignored her, she rapped harder and kept rapping. He really was a little man: she glared down at him like a schoolmarm scolding a guilty child.
I have to go, Mallon said. I’m sorry. He looked up at the sky. He would have liked to call Silvestri, to tell him that he was on his way, but his cell phone was back at the hotel and there was no public telephone in sight. I’m sorry, he said again, and stepped into the rain and walked quickly up the street.
One of the ubiquitous Bangladeshi umbrella hustlers was working the corner, and Mallon had just shelled out seven euros when he heard a woman shouting. He didn’t want to look back but did. It was the woman from the shop, pushing and batting the pickpocket away from the window while he hunched and covered his head like a boxer trying to get through the last seconds of a round. Mallon slipped his billfold back into his jacket pocket and took the umbrella that the Bangladeshi had opened for him. He hesitated, then turned back.

The pickpocket was out on the sidewalk now, in the rain. The woman stood just under the awning with her arms crossed over her chest.
Excuse me, signora, Mallon said, coming up to them. This man isn’t well. He needs to rest a moment.
I know these people, she said. We don’t want them here.
The rain fell in sheets, ran down the pickpocket’s shiny scalp and face, down his leather jacket. Strings of water hung like a fringe from the hem of the jacket, dripping onto the sagging pants and dainty shoes.
Here, Mallon said, and offered him the umbrella, but he only looked at Mallon with his hurt dark eyes and then lowered his head again. Mallon bumped him in the shoulder with the handle of the umbrella. Go on—take it! he said. And finally, with a beaten, unwilling look, the pickpocket did. He stood between Mallon and the signora, panting softly, holding the umbrella at a careless angle. He seemed oblivious of the water sliding down it onto his back; he seemed unable to move. So, too, the signora, steadfast in her icy pose. Mallon stepped under the awning, not so much to get out of the rain as to break free of this tableau.
And that was when he saw a taxi round the corner with a light glowing on its roof. It was absurd to hope for an empty cab in rain like this, most likely the driver had simply forgotten to turn it off, but Mallon ran out waving his arm and the cab veered sharply to the curb, sending a comber of water over his shoes. He opened the door but couldn’t help looking back. The pickpocket had lowered the umbrella to the ground upside down and was leaning on the shaft, head low, neck bared to the sky. The signora kept her post.
Wait, Mallon said to the driver. He went back and grabbed the pickpocket’s sleeve and pulled him to the cab. Get in, Mallon said, and took the umbrella and pushed him into the back seat. He leaned inside. O.K., where do you live?
No Gypsies! the driver said. He was twisted around, glowering at the pickpocket.
Gypsy? Look, he’s not well. I’ll pay, Mallon added.
The driver shook his head. No Gypsies. He was a thick-shouldered guy with a long blue jaw, a hawkish beak, and heavy black eyebrows. His shaved head was blue with stubble. Get him out, he said. Mallon was thrown by his anger and the dissonant paleness of his eyes, and before he could reply the driver seized the pickpocket’s jacket and gave him a shake. Out, you!
No, Mallon said. He closed the umbrella and slid onto the seat next to the pickpocket. He needs to get home, he said. I’ll come along.
The driver stabbed a finger at Mallon. Out.
Mallon looked at the driver’s nameplate: Michele Kadare. It’s the law, he said, bluffing. If you don’t take us, Signor Kadare, I’ll report you and you’ll lose your license. Believe me—I am quite serious.
The driver fastened those pale eyes on Mallon. The windshield wipers rasped against the glass. The driver turned and put his hands on the steering wheel. His meaty fingers were white and hairless as chalk. He raised his eyes to the rearview mirror and he and Mallon exchanged stares.
O.K., Mr. American, he said. You pay.
The driver proceeded in silence across the river and worked his way through snarls of traffic. The pickpocket had given no address; in halting Italian he’d told the driver to follow Via Tiburtina toward [REDACTED], and he would direct him from there. Then he’d leaned back into his corner with his eyes half closed, wheezing raggedly. He might have been hamming it up a bit, but Mallon was a big man and he’d hit the little pickpocket very hard. He saw no choice but to give him the benefit of the doubt.
The rain slackened to drizzle and a sulfurous yellow light suffused the air. Mallon could feel his wet socks turning warm. Now and then the driver looked at him in the mirror. Kadare. Didn’t sound Italian. Mallon had once read a book by an 416c62616e6961n writer named Kadare—maybe the driver was from [REDACTED]. That would make sense, somehow, just as it had made sense when the driver called the pickpocket a Gypsy. It explained the signora’s saying “these people,” and also Mallon’s jittery apprehension about the man, an inkling of some mysterious difference that had both put him on edge and intrigued him. But how did the driver and the signora know that the man was a Gypsy? It wasn’t as if he had a violin in his hand and a ring in his ear. Mallon could spot Gypsy women, with their kerchiefs and long bright skirts and their bold, flat-footed way of moving down a sidewalk, but the men eluded him. To his eye, the pickpocket might have been Portuguese, or Indian, or even one of those swart little Neapolitans. But the signora and the driver had seen it instantly, jolted by some Old World instinct, an alarm in the blood, of which only a tingle reached Mallon from what his forebears must have brought from Ireland and [REDACTED] and [REDACTED].
Generally he felt himself well rid of all that peasant malarkey—salt over the shoulder, garlic hanging from the lintel, the terror of black birds and spilled wine and others’ eyes—but sometimes he wondered if, in passing through the American filter, his blood had grown not clear but watery, if some essential agent of character, of self, had been bound up in these old instincts and had leached out along with them.
The pickpocket’s wet leather jacket gave off a faint pissy smell. Mallon rolled the window down a few inches and was overcome by the freshness of the air. He closed his eyes, savoring the play of the breeze over his face. When he opened them again he caught the driver watching him in the mirror.
Are you from [REDACTED]? Mallon asked.
The driver tapped the meter. It was already up to eighteen euros, and they still hadn’t reached Via Tiburtina. Cash only, Mr. American. No magic American credit cards.
How much farther? Mallon asked the pickpocket, who was holding both hands to his chest and rocking back and forth. He stared straight ahead and didn’t answer.
Kadare. Could be 416c62616e6961n. The book that Mallon had read concerned a boy waiting to be killed by a rival clan after shooting one of its members in revenge for the murder of his brother. The blood feud went back so far that no one could even remember its cause, but men continued to die for it and, more, to live for it. It gave them clear paths of duty and honor, and the power of martyrdom over their women; it imbued mean lives and deaths with a sense of tragic purpose. But what Mallon remembered best was the boy’s blooming alertness as the knowledge that he would soon be killed settled ever deeper. The boy quickened to the sun in his face and the smell of lamb’s fat dripping on coals, the glow of white boulders on the crags that loomed all around him. He wandered deserted roads and was never alone. Death beside him filled him with life until his cup ran over and he gave up his place to another murdering boy.

Mallon had liked the book, but guiltily. He’d resisted his fascination with this violent backward culture, and disapproved of the idea that having death at your elbow gave meaning and beauty to life. He felt quite sure that most people would prefer safety from assault, not to mention decent shelter and food on the table, to exquisite intimations of mortality—if such sensations even existed. They were a fiction of religious and romantic pathology, that’s what Mallon thought, until he started having them himself.
His daughter had begun to complain of headaches not long after her eleventh birthday, and was found to have a brain tumor. She’d survived it, and her tests had been negative for the three years since, but there’d been times during Lucy’s long course of radiation and chemotherapy when both Mallon and his wife had been sure that they were going to lose her. Chiara had grown bitter. She’d moved through the days in a cold rage, saying nothing, eating almost nothing, withdrawing into the guest room, where she’d slept since the month after Lucy’s diagnosis. She often said that she wished she’d never been born.
Not Mallon. During his daughter’s sickness he’d become intensely conscious of life as something good in itself, his own as well as hers. This had taken the form of patience rather than cheer or even hope, and he’d known better than to offer it in answer to Chiara’s despair, but he could see that she somehow sensed it anyway and resented it, as she’d come to resent so much about him since Lucy got sick—his composure, his ability to keep working, his voice and touch, even his newfound pleasure in food, which he would not be frowned out of and indulged to the point that he got paunchy for the first time in his life.
One leaden January afternoon, walking along a lakeside path after leaving the hospital, Mallon had looked up and watched the dark waves race toward shore and understood that his wife no longer loved him. Would she ever love him again? He supposed not, and time had proved him right. Chiara had tried to include him in her happiness when Lucy came home for good, but she just hadn’t liked having him around. Mallon thought that shame was at the root of her unease, for she had treated him badly, but he knew that Chiara wouldn’t recognize that; although she was smart and highly educated, a curator of rare manuscripts at the University of [REDACTED], personal analysis bored her, especially the analysis of her own emotions. She trusted in their essential validity and accepted their rule without question. He had prized this quality in her when she defied her family by throwing over an approved fiancé and marrying him; but now it made his case hopeless.
Mallon and Chiara had been separated for more than a year. She and Lucy kept the apartment. He had a studio nearby, so that he and Lucy could visit back and forth as the spirit moved them. That was the idea. In practice, Chiara’s coldness to him became so painful that he rarely went there and had to wait for Lucy to come to him, which she did less often than he wished. He didn’t blame her. She was busy with school and friends and boys and her choir—with everything he’d prayed she would live to enjoy.
As a project evaluator for his agency, Mallon had always had to fight for time at home. Lately he’d been less resolute. In the past two months he’d spent only nine days in [REDACTED], between stints in Zimbabwe and [REDACTED], where he’d lived in expensive hotels with broken air-conditioning and empty swimming pools and sandbagged machine-gun positions near the entrance, an obvious tap on the phone. The local project managers had worn him out with PowerPoint presentations and meetings with regional government officials. In their new Land Cruisers they’d driven him to sites where great things were just about to happen, and afterward laid on long speechy dinners, and sometimes a tribal spectacle of some kind.
And nothing was going to change—not really. Those struggling, malnourished people he glimpsed through the tinted windows of speeding cars would still be in the same fix when the next evaluator came through, already under pressure to sign off on the projects so as not to mortify those who’d approved them in the first place.
The people would be in the same fix; there would just be more of them. But at least they weren’t ridiculous. That condition was reserved for the project managers, with their Benson & Hedges cigarettes and Cartier lighters and gold Rolex watches and Armani cologne and the smooth European liquor they forced on Mallon with watchful, uncertain pride. And in his opinion they were ridiculous precisely because he and others like him, visitors from the greater ridiculousness, had made them so—constructing an entire class of anxious, alienated charlatans out of fat checks and aspirations so stupidly good, so uncomfortable with reality, that only deceit could satisfy them. For this, Mallon had left a good job at Nestlé, embarrassed by his success in a world where the pursuit of money and its blessings now seemed almost virtuously straightforward.
They were on Via Tiburtina. The driver tapped the meter—forty-one euros—and gave Mallon a pale stare in the mirror, but said nothing. The traffic moved at a crawl except for the motorinos whining up the shoulder and daring the narrow gaps between lanes. The road was lined with gas stations and strip malls, discount furniture stores and car dealerships strung with fluttering pennants. Plastic bags and shards of Styrofoam scudded along the road, snagged on cyclone fences. If not for the passing glimpse of a Roman wall, remnant arches of an aqueduct in a distant field, Mallon could have thought himself back in [REDACTED].
The pickpocket leaned forward and croaked at the driver.
Where? the driver said.
The pickpocket pointed to a supermarket on the other side of the road. The driver jerked the cab into the left-turn lane and waited for a break in the traffic. None came. He didn’t say a word, but Mallon could see the muscles working in his jaw and felt sure that he was nerving himself up to take a chance. Wait, he said, but just then an oncoming truck slowed down for them and the driver shot across the road and into the parking lot. The pickpocket directed him around to the rear of the store, where an unpaved road led out of the lot and past a long line of metal storage sheds and then a fenced compound filled with rusting machinery and great wooden spools of cable. The driver was going too fast for the road; the cab floated queasily between deep, jarring potholes.
Farther, the pickpocket said. A little farther.
And then the road gave out. They entered a field of mud. At the far end, several small trailers and campers had been drawn up beside an unfinished apartment block, windows empty of glass, balconies unrailed, water stains streaking the concrete walls. Indifferent to the rain, two boys were bouncing on a mattress in the middle of the field, watched by a bunch of other kids sitting on the shells of two wrecked cars. They jumped down and ran shouting toward the cab as it followed a crunching path through a waste of metal drums and tires and sodden newspapers and weirdly bright plastic bottles. A shaggy swaybacked pony had his muzzle buried in a cardboard box. He shied away as the parade went past, throwing a kick to cover his retreat. One of the boys jumped onto the hood of the cab and grinned at the driver: strong white teeth in a muddy face. The driver stared dead ahead.

The pickpocket ignored them, too. He had the aloof, preoccupied air of a man in the back of a chauffeured limousine. Over there, he said, and gestured languidly toward the apartment block. The cab slowed to a stop, and the boy on the hood slid down and raised his fists like a champion and his friends laughed and bumped him with their hips.
When the pickpocket got out of the cab, one of the boys called out to him—Miri!—and others joined in—Miri! Miri!—but he gave no sign of hearing. Mallon got out, too. He came around to say a last word of some kind, but the pickpocket turned away and took a few steps, then stopped and bent his head like a mourner. Wait a moment, Mallon said to the driver, and took the pickpocket’s elbow.
No. Pay now. Forty-eight euros.
Wait. Keep your meter on, you’ll be paid.
The entranceway was covered with plastic sheeting. The pickpocket pushed it aside and Mallon half followed, half helped him into the lobby—a raw concrete cave littered with broken tiles that gleamed in the light of a kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling. An old Gypsy woman was bent over a steaming metal tub set above a camp stove, rubbing a cloth against a washboard. She straightened up and looked at Mallon. Her dark face was webbed with deep wrinkles and folds from which her little eyes gleamed. One shoulder was higher than the other, as if caught in a shrug. In a gravelly voice she said something that Mallon didn’t understand. The pickpocket drooped and murmured pathetically. The old woman tossed the cloth into the tub and wiped her hands on the front of her dress, then led them across the lobby and down a dark hallway to a door over which a blanket had been hung. She held back the blanket and Mallon let go of the pickpocket’s elbow. O.K., you’re home, he said. The pickpocket ducked inside without a word.
The old woman continued to hold the blanket. She jerked her head toward the doorway.
No, I can’t, Mallon said.
Avanti, she said impatiently, her teeth flashing gold.
Mallon went in.
Mallon went in amazed at his own docility and bilious with dread. Why? What did he expect, his gut knotting up as he passed the threshold? Certainly not this room—the muted light, the neatly made bed in the corner, the glossy yellow sofa and matching chair, the artificial palm tree. Not this room, and not the two beautiful children gaping at him. One was a girl of eight or nine, the other a boy a little older, both of them thin and dark and large-eyed. They stood on either side of the pickpocket, the girl hugging his arm and leaning against him. The children moved back as the old woman brushed past Mallon and took the pickpocket by the shoulders of his leather jacket and stripped it off with a series of rough jerks that made him stagger. Without the jacket he looked even smaller, smaller and rounder. Growling, she nudged him toward the bed and said something to the girl, who helped him lie down and then knelt and slipped off his little shoes.
The old woman looked on, one hand at her hip. Then she turned to Mallon. Sit! she said. Before he could answer, she pointed at the yellow chair and waited until he obeyed. Then she told him, Stay! and left the room.
The pickpocket lay on his back. He sighed deeply. The girl studied Mallon from the foot of the bed, the boy from beside the large window at the end of the room. The window was covered with plastic that diffused a pearly gray light. The girl had long thin arms with big bony elbows and wore a T-shirt with a panda on it. Mallon smiled at her. Your papa? he asked, nodding at the pickpocket.
No answer, but she took a step toward Mallon.
Uncle?
The girl looked at the boy and laughed an outright adult sort of laugh and then pulled the collar of her T-shirt up over her mouth like a veil.
The old woman called out from somewhere. The girl dropped her eyes demurely, joined her hands across her waist, and crossed the room in little mincing steps as if imitating a geisha with bound feet. The boy continued to stare. Mallon thought of stealing away, but the chair was deep and soft, and before he could collect the will to push himself out of it the girl returned and stood right in front of him with a bowl of unwrapped chocolates and a plastic bottle of Coca-Cola. Mallon shook his head no, but the girl kept offering these gifts, holding his eyes with hers and nodding all the while, so that to refuse seemed impossible. He took the Coke. Though it was warm and filled his mouth with foam he made a show of appreciation, tipping his head back and closing his eyes before setting the bottle down on the floor.
The pickpocket groaned and rolled toward the wall, mumbling to himself. His voice rose as if in argument, then trailed off. The girl turned and looked at him, then at the boy, who drifted over to the other side of Mallon’s chair. The girl leaned back against Mallon’s knee, bouncing off him rhythmically, impersonally, as a child will do when caught by some distant thought or object of interest. Out of pure instinct he put his arm around her waist and pulled her onto his lap, then looked at the boy standing there alone and gathered him up, too. This felt entirely natural, apparently to them as well; light and noodly, they settled against him, heads on his chest. From above they looked identical. A pleasant, loamy smell rose up from their hair. The pickpocket rolled onto his back again and started to snore. Miri, the boy whispered, Miri Miri Miri, and began to imitate him, punctuating the nose music with wickedly accurate smacks and snorts. The girl was shaking. She put her hands over her mouth and exploded through her fingers.
Mallon let his head fall back. He was tired and the chair was comfortable and the children were warm and familiar against him. He closed his eyes. The boy grew still and so did the girl. Mallon could feel them breathe, young shallow breaths, oddly synchronous. The idea came to him that maybe they were twins. Dully considering the mystery of twins, of twinness, he remembered for the first time in years a pair of boys he’d grown up with, Jerry and Terry—or Jerry and Larry—then he lost his thread and was content to let it go and be afloat, carried along by the pickpocket’s snores until he could almost hear them as his own. Later, he wondered how long this had lasted. Not long, he guessed, but when he felt the children leave him and grudgingly opened his eyes he was as fresh as if he’d slept for hours.
The old woman was standing in front of the chair. That man out there wants you, she said.
They were back on Via Tiburtina, still a good distance from central 4974616c79 and Mallon’s hotel, the fare up to eighty euros, when Mallon clapped his hand to his chest. The driver caught the motion and raised his eyes to the mirror. Mallon looked out the rain-glazed window, let nothing show. The moment passed. Mallon yawned ostentatiously, then under cover of shifting and stretching he patted himself down and confirmed that his billfold was gone.

They drove on into lashing rain and the glare of headlights. It was just past six, but the sky was black and flickered with distant lightning. Mallon’s mouth was dry. He took a breath so deep that the driver glanced up again when he let it out. 

I have a problem.
The driver’s eyes snapped back and forth between the road and the mirror.
I’ve lost my wallet.
What?
My wallet is gone.
You are saying you have no money?
Not with me, no. I think I can get some at the hotel. If the clerk will advance it against my bill.
The driver leaned forward, peering into the slant of rain. He flicked on the turn signal.
I may not be able to get it tonight, but I can get it tomorrow for sure. In the morning. I just have to call [REDACTED]. Mallon sounded to himself like a prattling fraud, but he added, I will pay you.
You knew, the driver said.
What? What did you say?
No answer. The driver eased the cab onto the shoulder of the road and brought it to a stop. There was something terrible in his deliberateness, his silence, the rigid set of his neck. He sat there, hands on the wheel, looking straight ahead. Mr. American, he said, and made a noise between his teeth. Cars went by. The rain drummed on the roof. Mallon wanted to say something but was afraid to—as if the driver’s hatred were a gas that would blow at the first word. He felt he’d somehow lost the right to speak.
Get out, the driver said.
I’ll get the money to you, Signor Kadare, Mallon said.
By the time he’d unfolded himself from the cab and closed the door his pant legs were already wet and clinging. Only as the driver pulled away did he remember the umbrella. He took his suit jacket off and draped it over his head, holding the collar forward like a bill. In this way he trudged along the shoulder for a while, then walked backward when the wind gusted into his face.
What had the driver been getting at, saying, You knew? Knew what? And why had he felt himself caught out, laid bare at those words? The driver couldn’t have known what Mallon knew. But Mallon knew what Mallon knew. He’d come awake to it only at the driver’s accusation, but he knew all right and had known at the very moment back in that room, at rest but not asleep, the hand slipping across his chest, between jacket and shirt, then the discreet caress of the billfold sliding free and the lightness that followed, as if it had weighed pounds. That lightness—the strangest thing!
Thunder rumbled somewhere. The blown rain plastered Mallon’s shirt against his back, glittered in the headlights of the cars rushing toward him. On a whim he stuck out his thumb. He hadn’t hitchhiked since college, and not much then. Maybe the tie would help. Or maybe it would look wrong on a hitchhiker, too calculated or cunning—a danger sign. And, of course, he was soaking wet, as anyone could see. Would he have offered himself a ride? He soon gave it up and turned around and saw the tail-lights of a car not far ahead, a man hurrying toward him with an open umbrella.
It was the driver. He walked with a dipping limp on short legs. He came up to Mallon and held out the umbrella, which billowed and heaved in the wind.
Too late for that, Mallon said.
No, please. He held it uselessly over Mallon’s head. Come, please. Come. He escorted Mallon back to the cab and opened the door for him. Please, he said when Mallon hesitated.
Mallon got in. I will pay you, he said, as the driver pulled back into traffic.
No. No fare. Look! He touched the meter. It was off.
That’s ridiculous. Of course I’ll pay you.
No—a gift. But please no report, O.K.?
Mallon saw the man’s eyes in the mirror. Ah, he said.
No report?
No report. But I’m still going to pay you.
My gift to you. American, right? [REDACTED]?
Mallon took the easy way out and said yes. [REDACTED] just confused people; he hadn’t been there in years anyway.
What car do you have? Chevrolet? This taxi, it belongs to my wife’s father. Michele. He’s sick. No money, you know?
The driver chattered on: his father-in-law’s sickness, his sister’s sickness, a problem with the taxi license. As he talked he checked the mirror for Mallon’s response. He sounded like a project manager making excuses, wheedling for a passing grade. Mallon was bored and disappointed. So much for the fierce mountain clansman, the implacable 416c62616e6961n avenger he’d imagined and feared.
By the time they pulled up in front of the hotel the storm had passed and the doorman was shielding his eyes against a flare of evening light from the top of the street. The driver beat him to Mallon’s door and held it open, offering his hand as if to a woman. Mallon ignored it, emerged wet and blinking.
O.K.? the driver said. Your umbrella, where is your umbrella? He leaned past Mallon into the cab. There! Friends, O.K.?
No report, Mallon said.
Mr. [REDACTED]! the driver said to the doorman. [REDACTED], right?
Of course, Mallon said. [REDACTED]. 

