THE WALK WITH ELIZANNE
By John Updike

Their class had graduated from Olinger High School in 1952, just before the name was regionalized out of existence. Though the year 2002 inevitably figured in yearbook predictions and jokes, nobody had really believed that this much future would ever become the present. They were seventeen and eighteen; 2002 was impossibly remote. Now it was here, here in the function room of Fiorvante’s, a restaurant in West Alton, half a mile from the stately county hospital where a lot of them had been born and now one of them lay critically ill.
David Kern and his second wife, Andrea, long enough his wife to be no stranger to these five-year reunions, went to visit the sick class member, Mamie Kauffman, in the hospital room where she had lain for six weeks, her bones too riddled with cancer for her to walk. She had been living alone in a house she and a long-decamped husband had bought forty years ago, and where three children had been raised on a second-grade teacher’s salary. Get-well cards and art work from generations of her pupils filled the room’s sills and walls; Mamie was bubbly and hospitable, though she could not rise into even a sitting position.
“What an outpouring of love this has brought on,” she told them. “I was feeling sorry for myself and, I guess you’d have to say, not enough loved, until this happened.” She described getting out of bed and feeling her hip snap, feeling herself tossed into a corner like a rag doll, and reaching for the telephone, which luckily was on the floor, with her cane. She had used a cane for some time, for what she had thought was rheumatoid arthritis. At first she meant to call her daughter, Dorothy, two towns away. “I was so mad at myself, I couldn’t think of Dot’s phone number, though I dial it every other day, and then I told myself, ‘Mamie, it’s two-thirty in the morning, you don’t want Dot’s number, what you want is nine-one-one. What you want is an ambulance.’ They came in ten minutes and couldn’t have been nicer. One of the paramedics it turned out had been a second grader of mine twenty years ago.”
Andrea smiled and said, “That’s lovely.” In this overdecorated sickroom she looked young, vigorous, efficient, gracious; David was proud of her. She was a captive from another tribe, from a state other than [REDACTED].
Mamie tried to tell them about her suffering. “At times I’ve felt a little impatient with the Lord, but then I’m ashamed of myself. He doesn’t give you more than He gives you strength to bear.”
In theistic [REDACTED], David realized, people developed philosophies. Where he lived now, an unresisted atheism left people to suffer with the mute, recessive stoicism of animals. The more intelligent they were, the less they had to say in extremis.
Mamie went on, “I’ve been rereading Shirley MacLaine, where she says that life is like a book, and your job is to figure out what chapter you’re in. If this is my last chapter, I have to read it that way, but you know I’ve had a lot of time to think lying here and—” In her broad, kind face, nearly as pale as her pillow, Mamie’s watery blue eyes faltered, becoming quick and dry. “I don’t think it is,” she finished bravely. Even flat on her back, she was a teacher, knowing more than her audience and out of lifelong habit wanting to impart the lesson. “I’m not afraid of death,” she told the visiting couple, smartly dressed in their reunion finery. “It’s locked into my heart that—that—”
Yes, what? David thought, anxious to hear, though aware of the time ticking away. He came to this area so rarely now that he sometimes got lost on the new roads, even travelling only a mile. The reunion wouldn’t wait.
“That I’ll be all right,” Mamie concluded. She sensed the anticlimax, the disappointment even, and made an exasperated circular motion of her hand, with its flesh-colored hospital bracelet and [REDACTED] shunt. “That when it comes, I’ll still be there. Here. You know what I’m saying?”
The visiting couple nodded in eager unison.
“It’s the getting there,” Mamie admitted, “I don’t look forward to.”
“No,” Andrea agreed, smiling her bright healthy smile. She was dressed in a gray wool suit whose broad lapels made her look more buxom than usual.
David searched himself for something to say, but his tongue was numbed by memories of Mamie, from kindergarten on: the round-faced little girl being led to the asphalt playground by her round-faced mother; the eager student, knowing all the answers but never pushing them on others or on the teacher, never demanding attention but ready to shine when it fell on her; the cheerleader and class secretary, the pep girl. In their class plays and assembly programs, she always played the part of the impish little sister, while David, for some reason, played the father, with talcum powder in his hair. There was no need for talcum powder now; he had turned gray and then white early, like his own mother.
Mamie was saying, “So I say to myself, ‘Mamie, you stop complaining, you’ve had a wonderful life, and three wonderful children, and it isn’t over yet.’ Dot offered to have me come live with them, but I wouldn’t do it to her, not in the shape I’m in. Jake offered, too, out there in [REDACTED]. He thinks the dryness would be good for me, but what would I do looking out the window at the desert, unable to open a window because of the air-conditioning? The funny thing is—this will amuse you, David, you were always into irony—the rehab I’ll be moving to is the same one with my mother already there. She won’t be in my unit, but isn’t that ironical? I lived two blocks from her most of my life, and now I’ll be on the floor just under her.”
The yearbook had not predicted that any of their parents would be alive in 2002. “My goodness—your mother must be ninety,” David said.
“And then some. Who would have thought it, the way she smoked? And she wasn’t averse to a drink now and then, either.”
“She was always very nice to me. Even without you being there, I could hang out in your house, waiting for my father to get done at school. We’d play gin rummy.”
“She always said, ‘David will go places.’ ”
In memory he saw her mother at the kitchen table like a tenement solitary glimpsed from a passing train—smoke unfurling from a Chesterfield in a glass ashtray, a fanned set of cards in her hand, a glass of some tinted liquid beside her other elbow. She had pasty, deeply dimpled elbows, and she and her daughter shared curly brown hair, and full, talkative lips, curved up at the corners. For all the bubbly welcome with which the two females of the house received David’s visits, there had been a melancholy nap to the furniture, a curtained gloom. It was a semi-detached house with no windows on one side and those on the other giving onto a neighbor’s house not six feet away. Mr. Kauffman, a small, almost rudely untalkative lathe operator, was slow to come home from work. Mamie’s sunny manner, her busy happiness in high school—the long shiny halls, the organized activities, the tides of young life regulated by bells—had the relief of escape attached to it. Like David’s father, who taught there, she felt at home in the broad, chaste communal setting. David’s fondness for her had never made it over the edge into the mildest kind of sexual exchange.

“Speaking of going places,” David said.
“Yes,” Mamie said quickly, recovering her briskness, “you must be off. You two have a wonderful time. David, be sure to say something nice to Betty Lou about the decorations and favors. She slaved to find all those things in the class colors.”
Betty Lou, though laid-back and slangy, had indeed slaved; the effect was dazzling—swags of maroon and canary yellow, floral centerpieces to match at every table, the walls thronged with enlarged photographs taken fifty and more years ago of schoolchildren in pigtails and knickers, and then of teen-agers in saddle shoes and pleated skirts, corduroy shirts and leather jackets. The boys looked mildly menacing, with their greased pompadours and ducktails and flagrantly displayed cigarettes, a pack squaring their shirt pockets and an unfiltered singleton tucked behind one ear. The girls, too, with their thickly laid-on lipstick and induced blond streaks, had a touch of killer, of determination to get their share of the life to come.
Now, although that life was mostly over, the function room was full of human noise, gleeful greetings and old-fashioned kidding: “God, ugly as ever! Who’s your friend, or is that a stomach?”
Betty Lou, who without Mamie here was thrown into the chief managerial role, came and seized David above the elbow and turned him away from studying the photographs on the wall to face a well-dressed, well-padded woman with button-black eyes and hair to match, cut short and tastefully frosted.
“Do you know who this is?” Betty Lou asked. Her tone was so aggressive his mind seized up. The mystery woman’s features had an owlish sharpness, and the decisively shaped, jet-black eyebrows gave her a frowning look, though she was smiling hopefully, trying silently to sing her identity to David across the decades. He was reminded of walking to elementary school, when Barbara Moyer and Linda Rickenbacker would steal his hat and his rubber-lined book satchel and nimbly keep these possessions out of his reach until tears stung his eyes and he ran away in a tantrum; then the girls would chase him, to give him back what they had grabbed.
Now, again, he was being ganged up on by girls. The seconds stretched. Plump women of sixty-seven or eight have a family resemblance. He stammered—an old problem, long outgrown—when he began to mouth the name of a girl, Loretta Haldeman, who, he realized in mid-stammer, this could not be, for Loretta had attended five years ago, wearing steel-rimmed spectacles with one opaque lens; an eye had given out. This woman with her stern and shiny stare was being presented as a treat, a delicacy, a rarity. He tried to remember who always annoyed the class organizers by never coming, by not coming for fifty years, and thus through the powers of deduction rather than of recognition he named her: “Elizanne!” It was a name like none other, pronounced, they had learned as children, to begin with an “ay” sound, like the mysterious “et” in Chevrolet. It bespoke an ambitious, willful mother, to brand a daughter like this, in so conservative a county.
Elizanne stepped forward to be kissed; David aimed at her cheek, though from the way she puckered she would have taken him on her mouth. “How good to have you here,” he said, a bit blankly. She had not been one of the showier girls in the class, though she had aged better than most. Her dress was teal silk and understated, expensive, and suburban. Her husband, that ultimate accessory, was tall and genial, with a trace of Southern accent, a man of business, retired or all but. The two of them were together embarked, David imagined, upon a well-earned sunset career of determined foreign travel, of grandchild-sitting and health-club attendance, of hardworking 556e6974656420537461746573n leisure modelled on the handsome aging couples in commercials for Viagra and iron supplements. Elizanne, he sensed, had gone places; her face displayed, along with that demure quick smile he could remember—a smile that darted in and out—a good sense of herself, a firm social identity momentarily set aside, like a man’s jacket folded into an airplane’s overhead bin. Though David was happy enough to see her, he had little to say to her, and less than that to the tan and drawling husband, to whom they must all seem, David imagined, [REDACTED] Dutch hicks.
It was only toward the end of the evening, with their spouses lost in the crowd, that she came up to him. There had been the bumbling monologue by the unofficial class clown, the e-mailed greeting from the unable-to-attend class president, the touching message from Mamie that Betty Lou read aloud, the microphone amplifying the catch in her throat. “We had the best of it,” Mamie had written. “No drugs, no school shootings, respect for our teachers, and faith in [REDACTED].” Then the Frankhauser twins, now stooped and heavy of step, performed a soft-shoe routine last presented in senior assembly, and Betty Lou offered thanks to all the committee members, and Butch Fogel announced how to find tomorrow’s picnic, though the TV weathermen were predicting rain. The hired entertainment, a female keyboard player with a bassist, sang old songs freighted with nostalgic content for somebody, but not quite for them. Their songs were overlookable oddities tucked into the late forties and early fifties, just before Presley and doo-wop and rock made everything before them funky—the swing bands, the crooners, the iron-coiffed female vocalists, the novelty numbers and moony heart-wringers, to which one did a sluggish box step. Nobody danced. Even five years ago, one couple had dared, and others followed. Now, nobody.
As the classmates began to shuffle toward the door and whatever fate the next five years would bring, Elizanne came up to David, resting a hand on his forearm and speaking with a firm, lilting urgency, almost as if she were speaking to herself. “David,” she said, in this running murmur, “there’s something I’ve been wanting for years to say to you. You were very important to me. You were the first boy who ever walked me home and—and kissed me.”
Her eyes, a creamy brown color nearly consumed by her widened pupils in this dimmed function room, sought his, causing her lids with their starry wealth of black lashes to lift. Her eyebrows were released from their frown. Her face, so close and foreshortened, seemed arrived from a great distance. She might have had a drink or two—Fiorvante’s had its bar just outside the function room—but she was sober, and now so was he, shocked amid the reunion’s loud adult courtesies by this remembrance of their young selves, their true, fumbling selves.
“I remember that walk,” he said. But did he?
Elizanne laughed, a bit coarsely—a modern suburban woman’s knowing laugh. “It got me started, I must tell you, on a lot of, whatever. Kissing, let’s say.”
He tried to ignore the experienced, sardonic woman she had become. The forgotten walk was coming back to him. The shy, leisurely passage, in dying light, through Olinger, and the standing close, still talking, at the door of her parents’ house, and then his lunge into the kiss, and her equally clumsy yet fervid acceptance of the kiss. He had loved her, for a season. When? Why had the season been so short? Had they kicked fallen leaves as they walked through town, along the Alton Pike with its trolley tracks, into the rectilinear streets of brick row houses, and then on to Elmdale, the section where the streets curved, and the houses stood alone on their lawns, the lawns weedless and the houses half-timbered and slate-roofed and expensive, to the house where Elizanne lived? Had it been spring, shot through with sudden green and yellow, or summer, when bugs swarmed and girls wore shorts, or winter, when your cheeks stung in the dark? He was stricken to have her imply, with a knowledgeable laugh, that she had gone on to kiss others—many others. She had added something he didn’t quite catch, in the noise of reunion farewells or in his growing deafness, about “what you all wanted”—a sadly cheap and standard sneer, he felt, about male sexuality, which in that place and era had been a massive, underpublicized impetus that most boys dealt with alone. But the sneer itself dated her, and took them back.

“You were so,” he breathed, groping for the word, “dewy.” This he did remember, amid so much he had forgotten—her dewiness, a quiet, fuzzy moisture about her skin, her presence. “I’m glad,” he added, going into dry adult mode, “it was a successful initiation.”
Darkly her eyes held his for a second. She realized that he couldn’t express what was there to express, and gave his forearm a squeeze and removed her hand. “I just wanted you to know,” she said. This was goodbye, for fifty more years.
Wait, he thought, but instead said, quite inanely, “Thank you, Elizanne. What a sweet thing to remember. Hey, you look great. Unlike a lot of us.”
That night, twisting with the reunion’s excitement next to Andrea in bed at the Alton Marriott, and for days following, he tried to recapture that walk which had ended in a kiss. Elizanne’s house and neighborhood had been more expensive than his, and that had intimidated him. She was not for him. Before too long he got his first real girlfriend, from the class below theirs, who let him hold her breasts and partly undress her, slick as a fish in the parked car. How old would they have been, he and Elizanne? Sixteen, perhaps fifteen. Had it been after a football game, or a school dance? He had not really been very social, nor, after they moved to the country, when he was fourteen, was he free to drift around Olinger as he pleased, though he continued at Olinger High, riding back and forth with his father.
She was in the marching band, he remembered. He could see her in her uniform, her black hair bundled up under her cap and her girl’s body encased, somehow excitingly, in the gold-striped maroon pants and jacket. The baton twirlers in their high white boots and short flippy skirts were followed by a maroon unisex mass, and Elizanne was in that phalanx. What did she play? He thought clarinet, but this might have been a slender shadow of her coloring; unlike the other class brunettes, with their highlighted brown waves, she had truly black hair, with lashes and eyebrows to match. The skin of her face had been luminously white in contrast. A fuzz on her upper lip made two little smudges.
Remembering the dark fuzz, most noticeable in the downward view, gave him another piece of memory: dancing with her, holding her close while shuffling, her corsage and strapless taffeta bodice and the taffeta small of her back with its little ridges and his feet and armpits and shoulder blades in the rented summer tux all melting into one continuum of sweat while the streamers overhead drooped and the mirror ball flung its reflections frictionlessly across the floor and the band, its muted trombones sobbing, finished its rendition of “Stardust” or “Goodnight Irene.” His and Elizanne’s cheeks felt pasted together and yet when the music stopped he didn’t want to let go; he continued, pantingly, to drink her in, her foreshortened demure face with its smudged upper lip and dewy expanse of décolletage, the white edges of her strapless bra outlining her gentle bosom.
How often had they danced like that? Why hadn’t more come of it? As long as he could remember, the female sex had been sending out combative, formidable scouts in his direction, mothers and grandmothers and teachers, and Barbara and Linda stealing his cap on the way to school, and fellow classroom goody-goodies like Mamie, and here the surface of femininity, that towering mystery in whose presence his life must be lived, yielded to a slight pressure. Without a word, a word that he could remember, Elizanne had submitted to his inept attentions, and indicated a demure curiosity in what he might do for her.
The walk: for weeks after the reunion his mind could not let go of the walk she reminded him they had taken. In the distorting lens of old age it loomed as one of the most momentous acts of his life. The geography of Olinger had been woven into him, into the muscles that pushed his bicycle and pulled his sled. His parents took walks on Sunday afternoons, and he had tagged behind them until his legs balked. His grandfather had worked on the borough crew that had put in some of the new streets on the north side of the main thoroughfare, the Pike. The town was older south of the Pike, where David’s house sat, in a ragged neighborhood of mixed architectural styles and vacant lots, some of them planted in corn. He preferred the blocks north of the Pike, where identical brick semi-detached houses, with square-pillared porches and terraced front lawns, had been put up during the twenties. Friends like Mamie lived in these orderly cozy blocks, which had grocery stores or hobby shops or an ice-cream parlor or a barber shop tucked into the front rooms of homes. He loved the houses’ tightness, their uniformity, which seemed a pledge of order and shared intention missing from his own patchy neighborhood.
Beyond this section, where a harness-racing track had once tied up sixty acres, contractors in the years before the war positioned handsome limestone and clinker-brick single houses on new streets curving up the side of Shale Hill. David’s walk with Elizanne must have taken him from the high school or its grounds on the Pike through the blocks of semi-detached houses, which above their porches held picture windows where seasonal decorations—orange-paper pumpkins and black-paper bats for Halloween, Christmas tinsel, Easter baskets—announced the residents’ fealty to the Christian calendar. The trees along the streets changed from horse chestnuts in the old section where he lived to dense lines of [REDACTED] maples on the solidly built-up rectilinear streets to drooping, feathery elms and blotchy-barked sycamores, locally called buttonwoods, on the streets that curved. These trees were looser, airier; there was more space and light in the section where Elizanne lived, as if you were ascending a hill, as indeed you were, but a gently sloping hill of money, of airy privilege. And yet she had let him kiss her, there by her thick-panelled front door, with its two-tone chime doorbell, and had remembered that kiss for more than fifty years, and spoke of it as her admission ticket to the wonderland of sex.
If Mamie was right and we live forever, David thought, he could imagine no better way to spend eternity than taking that walk with Elizanne over and over, until what they said, how they touched, whether or not he dared hold her hand in his, and each hair of the fine black down on her forearms all came as clear as letters deep-cut in marble. There would be time to ask her all the questions he had been too slow-witted to ask at their fiftieth. Was this her first husband, or the last of a series? Had she had affairs, in that suburb of her choosing? Had there been a lot of necking, as he had heard there was, on the band bus back from the football games? Was it the bus where she went on with her kissing, the groping that comes with kissing, the flush and hard breathing that comes with groping? Whose girlfriend had she been, in her junior and senior years? He dimly remembered her being linked with Lennie Lesher, the track star, the five-minute miler with sunken acne-scarred cheeks and tight waves of hair soaked in Vitalis. How could she have betrayed him, David, that way? Or with those faceless members of the band? Why had they, David and she, drifted apart after walking through Olinger into the region of more light? Or had it been night, after a dance or a basketball game, her white face with its strong eyebrows and quick smile a nocturnal blur?

For days he could not let her afterimage go, but in time he would, he knew. He could not write or call her, even if Mamie or Betty Lou provided him with her address and number, for there were spouses, accumulated realities, limits. At the time, obviously, there had been limits in their situation, deficiencies. He had had little to offer her but his future of going places, and that was vague and distant. The questions he was burning to ask would receive banal answers. It was an adolescent flirtation that had come to nothing.
"Well, here we are.” The streetlights had just come on.
“So soon!” he exclaimed. “You have a n-nifty-looking house.”
“Mother’s never liked the kitchen. She says it’s gloomy, all those dark-stained cabinets. She wants us to move to West Alton.”
“Oh, no! Don’t move, Elizanne.”
“I don’t want to, heaven knows. She thinks they have better schools in West Alton. A better class of student.”
“My m-mother made us move to the country and I hate it.”
“You can’t stay in Olinger forever, David.”
“Why not? Some do.”
“That won’t be you.”
Her gaze clung to his in her seriousness; her eyebrows slightly frowned. He expected her to turn away and go into her house, but she didn’t. He explained, “I ought to get back to the school, my p-poor father’s p-p-probably looking for me. It must be past five.” The light died earlier each day: it was October. The leaves were turning.
“Tell me honestly,” she said, as if to herself, rapidly. “Did I talk too much? Just now, walking.”
“No, you didn’t. You didn’t at all.”
“That’s what I do, when I let myself relax with someone. I chatter. I go on too much.”
“You didn’t. It was like you were singing to me.”
Her face had not exactly come closer to his, but its not turning and moving away made it feel closer. Cautiously he bent his face into hers, a little sideways, and kissed her. Elizanne’s lips took the fit snugly, warmly; she pressed slightly into the kiss, from underneath, looking for something in it. David felt caught up in a stream flowing counter to the current of everyday events, and began to run out of breath. He broke the contact and backed off. They stared at one another, her black eyes button-bright in the sodium streetlight, amid the restless faint shadows of the half-brown big sycamore leaves. Then he kissed her again, entering that warm still point around which the universe wheeled, with its load of stars not yet visible, the sky still blue above the streetlights. This time she backed off. A car went by, maybe containing somebody they knew, a spy or gossip. “And there was even more,” she said, giggling to show that she was poking fun at herself now, “that I wanted to say.”
“You will,” he promised, breathlessly. His cheeks were hot, as if after gym class. He was worried, with an anxious stir of his stomach, about his father waiting for him. He felt as he had when, his one weekend at the Jersey Shore the past summer, a wave carrying his surfing body was breaking too early and about to throw him forward, down into the hard sand. “I want to hear it all,” he told Elizanne. “We have t-tons of time.” 

