WALTER JOHN HARMON
By E. L. Doctorow

When Betty told me she would go that night to Walter John Harmon I didn’t think I reacted. But she looked into my eyes and must have seen something—some slight loss of vitality, a moment’s dullness of expression. And she understood that for all my study and hard work the Seventh Attainment was still not mine.
Dearest, she said, don’t be discouraged. The men have more difficulty. Walter John Harmon knows that and commends your struggle. You can go see him if you wish—it is the prerogative of husbands.
No, I said, I’m all right.
After she had gone, I went walking in the evening light across the pastures. It is beautiful country here, a broad undulant valley with brooks and natural ponds and no ground light to dim the stars or the moving lights of the jets up among them. This is where the Holy City will descend. The Community has in just two short years assembled the parcels of this valley. I did some real-estate law back in [REDACTED], and I am proud to say that I have had no small hand in our accomplishment. It is in the nature of a miracle that Walter John Harmon has, in his effortless way, drawn so many of us to his prophecy. And that we have given everything we possess—not to him, to the Demand that comes through him. We are not idiots. We are not cult victims. In many quarters, we are laughed at for following as God’s prophet a garage mechanic, who, in his teens, was imprisoned for car theft. But this blessed man has revolutionized our lives. From the first moment I was in his presence I felt resolved in my soul. Everything was suddenly right. I was who I was. It is hard to explain. I saw the outside world darkened, as in a film negative. But I was in the light. And that I was blessed seemed to be established in his eyes. Walter’s pale-blue eyes are set so deep under the ridge of his brow that the irises are occluded at the top, like half-moons. It is almost a chilling gaze you feel upon you, as gentle as it may be—something not of this world but ineffable, expressive of God, like the gaze of an animal.
So I knew the failing within me when Betty was this night summoned for Purification. Walter is at a level beyond lust. This is apparent, since all the wives, even the plainest, partake of his communion. His ministry annuls the fornications of a secular society. Betty and I, for example, made love many times before we were married. And the Community’s children, the children in white who have never known carnal sin, are not permitted to look at Walter John Harmon, lest he inspire them to confusion. They are the precious virgins, girls and boys, whose singing brings him such joy. He says nothing to them, of course, but smiles and closes those remarkable eyes and the tears stream from them like rain down a windowpane.
Betty and I learned about Walter John Harmon from the Internet. I found myself reading someone’s Web log—how that happened I can’t remember. I think of it now as the beginning of His summons, for nothing is without significance in this world made by God. I called Betty and she came into my study, and together we read of this most remarkable event of the tornado that had occurred the year before in the town of Fremont, in west [REDACTED]. There were links, too, all from this locality and all telling the same story. I logged on to the archives of the regional newspapers and confirmed that there had been a series of tornadoes throughout the state at that time, and that a particularly destructive twister hit Fremont head on. But, beyond that, not one newspaper reported the key thing. Not even in the Fremont Sun-Ledgerwas there an account of this one inexplicable occurrence of the cyclone that came through the middle of town, flinging cars into the air, shattering storefronts, lifting houses off their foundations, and, among other disasters, setting off a gas-and-oil fire that pooled on the floor of the repair shop of the Getty station on the corner of Railroad and Division Streets, where Walter John Harmon worked as a mechanic.
I hold in my mind a composite account of what happened from the Web logs and from what we have since heard recounted by the townspeople who witnessed this or that particular moment and who followed Walter in his ministry and are now the Community Elders. Walter John Harmon himself has not been persuaded to write down a testament, nor has he permitted anything to be written in the way of documentation. “It is not the time for that,” he says. And then, “May it never be the time, for the day we falter and lose our way, that will be the time.” In fact, nothing in the Community is written. The Ideals, the Imperatives, the Assignments and Obligations are all pronounced, and, once spoken by the prophet, are carried and remembered by means of daily prayer. The miracles of the tornado are held in the imaginations of our minds and we speak of them to one another in our workday or social gatherings, so that as the years pass there will be a Consensus of the inner truth and its authority will be unquestionable.
As he stood by the pool of fire, the garage doors, first, and then the roof and then the collapsed walls were lifted and spun into the black funnel. Only Walter John Harmon stood where he stood, and then was slowly raised in his standing and turned slowly in his turning, calmly and silently, his arms stretched wide in the black shrieking, with the things of our lives whirling in the whirlwind above him—car fenders, machines from the Laundromat, hats and empty coats and trousers, tables, mattresses, plates and knives and forks, TV sets and computers, all malignantly alive in the black howling. And then a child flew into Walter John Harmon’s left arm and another fell into his right arm, and he held them steadfast and was lowered to the ground where he had stood. And then the dreaded wind that takes all breath away was gone, having blown itself to bits. And the fields beyond the town were strewn with the several dead and dying among their possessions. But the pool of fire in the Getty garage was nothing but a ring of blackened concrete, and the sun was out as if the tornado had never been, and the mothers of those two children came running and found them bruised and bleeding and crying but alive. Only then did Walter John Harmon begin again to breathe, though he stood where he stood, unable to move, as if in a trance, until he collapsed and lost consciousness.
All of this is in the Consensus. Other elements of the miracle are still debated by the Community and, I suppose, come under the heading of apocrypha. One of the Elders, Ansel Bernes, who had owned a clothing store, claims that seven mercury street lamps on the walking street in the Fremont business district came on and stayed on when the tornado hit. I can’t quite accept this. According to the Sun-Ledger, Fremont’s power outage was total. It took the local utility two days to get everyone back on line.

When Betty and I came here, we had been married a dozen years, with no children to show for it. One of the appeals of the Community is that we are all parents of all children. While the adults live in quarters of their own, as in the outer world, the children room together in the main house. At present, we are fifty families with a human treasury of seventy-eight children, ranging in age from two to fifteen.
Except for the main house, which was once a retreat for elderly nuns of the Roman Catholic persuasion, and to which we have added a new wing, all the Community buildings were built by members, according to the specifications of Walter John Harmon. He called for square, boxlike structures with gable roofs for the adult houses, each of which contains two apartments of two rooms each. His own residence is slightly larger, with a gambrel roof that gives it the appearance of a barn. All buildings in the complex are painted white—no colors are permitted, exterior or interior. Metal fixtures are not allowed, window frames are wood, all water is drawn by hand from wells, there is no indoor plumbing, and communal showers, men’s and women’s, are jerry-rigged in tents. Walter John Harmon has said, “We praise what is temporary, we cherish the impermanent, for there can be no comparison with what is coming that is not an impiety.”
But in the business suite in the new wing of the main house we do have computers, faxes, copiers, and so on, powered by a gasoline generator behind the building—though we intend when it is practical to switch to solar cells. All of this is by dispensation, because, regrettably, we do have necessary business with the outside world. We handle legal challenges from state and county officials and must deal also with private suits brought by unthinking or opportunistic relations of our family members. But only the Community lawyers, and Elder Rafael Altman, our financial officer and C.P.A., and his bookkeepers, and the women who provide clerical help may enter these premises. Three of us practice law, and after morning prayers we go to work just like everyone else. By dispensation we own the habiliments of the legal profession—suits, shirts, ties, polished shoes—which we don for those occasions when we must meet with our counterparts in the world outside. We are driven by horse and wagon to the Gate, down at the paved road some two miles away. There we have the choice of the three parked S.U.V.s, though never the Hummer. The Hummer is reserved for Walter John Harmon. He does not proselytize but he does schedule spiritual meetings on the outside. Or he will attend ecumenical or scholarly conferences on this or that religious or social issue. He is never invited to participate, but is eloquent enough sitting quietly in the audience in his robe, his head bowed, his face almost hidden in the fall of his hair, and his hands folded under his chin.
Betty returned early the next morning, the sun coming with her through the door, and I welcomed her with a hug. I meant it, too—I loved seeing her face in the morning. She is very fair and rises from her sleep with her cheeks flushed like a child’s and her hazel eyes instantly alert to the day. She is as lithe and fit as she was when she played field hockey in college. If you look closely, you can see tiny lines radiating from the corners of her eyes, but this only makes her more attractive. Her hair is the color of wheat, and she still wears it short, as she did when I met her, and she still has that spring to her step and her typically energetic way of doing things.
We prayed together and then we had our bread and tea, chatting all the while. Betty served as a Community teacher, she had the kindergarten, and she was talking about her day’s plan. I felt better now. It was a beautiful day dawning with coverlets of white webbing on the grass. I had a renewed confidence in my own feelings.
All at once, the most hideous carnal images arose in my mind. I wanted to speak but could not catch my breath.
What is it, Jim, what?
Betty held my hand. I closed my eyes until the images disappeared and I could breathe again.
Oh, my dear one, she said. Last night was not the first time, after all. And have our lives changed? I’m telling you that it is not a normal human experience with any of the normal results.
I don’t want to hear about it. It is not necessary for me to hear about it.
It is no more, or no less, than a sacrament. It is no more than when the priest placed the wafer on our tongues.
I held my hand up. Betty looked at me inquiringly, as in the old days, a pretty bird with its head cocked, wondering who I could possibly be.
You know, she said, I had to tell Walter John Harmon. You should go see him. Look how your mouth is set, so hard, so angry.
It was not for you to tell him, I said.
I recognized an Obligation.
Outside in the sun, I breathed the sweet air of the valley and tried to calm myself. Everything around me was a vision of serene life. We are the quietest people. You will never hear a loud argument or see a public display of temperament anywhere in the Community. Our children never fight, or push each other, or band together in hurtful cliques the way children do. The muslin we wear that suggests our common priesthood quiets the heart. The prayers we utter, the food we grow for ourselves in our fields provide an immense and recurring satisfaction.
Betty followed me. Please, Jim, she said. You should talk to him. He will see you.
Yes? And what if I am excused from my work, if I am remanded, who can argue the case?
What case is that?
You’re not entrusted to know. But believe me it’s critical.
He will not remand you then.
How can you know that? I may not be an Elder, but I’m approved to go beyond the Gate. And doesn’t that presuppose the Seventh?
Why was I having to defend myself? Please, I said, I won’t talk about this anymore.
Betty turned from me, and I felt her coldness. I had the maniacal thought that the Purifications wouldn’t be a problem for me if I no longer loved my wife.
At our supper at the end of the day, she asked me to do something, some minor chore that I would have done without her asking, and I thought her tone was officious.
To what extent was my legal work in the outside world holding me back from the prophetic realization offered by Walter John Harmon? Didn’t I have one foot in and one foot out? But wasn’t that my Imperative? He himself had said that the higher Attainments were elusive, difficult, and, as if they had personalities of their own, they were given to teasing us with simulacra of themselves. So there was no shame in being remanded. Perhaps for my own sake I should have requested it. But then would I not be putting myself before the needs of the Community? And wouldn’t that be to relinquish the Sixth Attainment?

The following morning, before work, I went to the Tabernacle to pray.
Our Tabernacle is no more than a lean-to. It stands at the high end of the lawn bordering the apple orchard. On a wooden table of our own making and without any ornamentation or covering sit a white stone and a common latchkey. I knelt in the grass in the sun, with my head bowed and my hands clasped. But, even as I uttered the prayers, my mind split in two. As I mouthed the words, all I could think of was this question: Had I come to the Community from the needs of my own heart, or had I merely gone along out of deference to the convictions of my wife? That’s how badly the doubts were assailing me.
When I looked up, Walter John Harmon was standing in the Tabernacle. I had not seen him approach. Nor was he looking at me. He was staring at the ground seeing nothing but his own thoughts.
Walter does not deliver sermons because, as he maintains, we are not a church, we are an Unfolding Revelation. He will appear at the Tabernacle unannounced at any time of the day, any day of the week, as the spirit moves him. At such times, the word goes out and the members who can manage it run to hear him, and those whose work prevents this will hear his words later, as committed to memory by those in attendance.
People came running now. Because Walter John Harmon is so soft-spoken, it became apparent to the Elders at one point that a dispensation had to be made for a wireless microphone and a loudspeaker. As he stood in the Tabernacle in his characteristic way, with the fingertips of one hand touching the wooden table, and as he began to speak, as he would have even if there were no one there to listen, someone arrived with the speaker and set up the microphone on a stand in front of him. Even amplified, the prophet’s voice was barely more than a whisper. There was such a diffidence about him, for, as he had told us more than once, his was a reluctant prophecy. He had not sought it, or wanted it. Before God came to him in that cyclone, he had not even thought about religion. He had led an unruly life in his youth and had done many bad things, and he felt that perhaps that was why he’d been chosen—to demonstrate the mysterious greatness of God.
What Walter John Harmon said on this morning was along these lines: Everywhere and at all times, numeration is the same for all mankind. This is because, no less than the earth or the stars, numbers are the expression of God. And so as they add and subtract and divide and multiply, as they combine and separate and conclude, they are the same always to the understanding of human beings, no matter who we are or what language we speak. God, in the form of numerical truth, will weigh the fruit on the scale, He will measure your height, He will give you the tolerances of your engine parts, and tell you the length of your journey. He will offer you numbers to go on forever without end, and we call this infinity because our mathematics count up to God. And when Jesus the Son of God died for our sins, He took to Himself the infinity of them, because He was of God and could die for the sins of the dead and the living and the unborn for generations to come.
A prophet is not the Son of God, he is one of you, he is an ordinary man of remorse, like you, and so his numbers are no more infinite than the years of his life are infinite. He cannot die for mankind’s sins, he can only work to remove the sin of this or that soul, taking it into himself, and adding it into himself. Whatever faults you in the eyes of God—your carnal desires, your greed, your attachment to what is unworthy—your mortal prophet lifts from you and takes unto himself. And he does that until the weight of the numbers will bury him and he is welcomed in Hell. For he is an ordinary mortal, and if he takes on your sins they become his own, and it is to Hell he will go—not to God at his Right Hand but to the Devil in the depths of Hell’s eternal torment. “Only the adults purified by this prophecy will join the virgin children in the Holy City to come,” Walter John Harmon said. “And I will not be among them.”
There was consternation at those words. We knew that because the Transference of Sin was the key to his teaching Walter risked exclusion from the Holy City. We had discussed this at our Meetings. The prophecy was Jesus-like but not Jesus, it was Moses-like but not Moses. Yet to hear it put in mathematical terms was shocking—people stood and cried out, because now Walter John Harmon was speaking of something as incontestable as a sum, as measurable as a weight or a volume, and the reality of such a cut-and-dried formulation seemed almost too much for us to bear.
He did not walk away but looked over us with a faint smile on his lips. Was he suggesting that his doom was imminent? His blond and graying hair was tied this morning into a ponytail, which made him seem younger than his thirty-seven years. And at this moment his pale-blue eyes were those of a youth unaware of the tragedy of his life. As he stood and waited, the members were slowly calmed by his silence. We went to him and knelt and kissed his robe. Perhaps I was the only one this day to feel that his words were a personal communication. They seemed to be responding to my torments, as if, having intuited my reluctance to seek his counsel, Walter John Harmon had chosen this way to remind me of his truth and to restore the strength of my conviction. But that was the effect, always, after all, for the power of his word was in its uncanny precise application to whatever had been in your own mind, though you might not have before realized it.
All who heard him this day knew the truth of his prophecy and the resolution and peace of surrendering to it. I felt once again secure in the privilege of the Seven Attainments. I loved Walter John Harmon. How then could I fault my wife’s love for him?
A week or so later, I dressed for the outer world and drove one of our S.U.V.s to the state courthouse in Granger, a trip of some sixty miles. Whenever I walked into a courthouse now, I felt a great unease, as an alien in a strange land. Yet I had passed the bar exams of three contiguous states and had spent my adult life in the general practice of law, and so there was, simultaneously, a professional sense of belonging to such buildings as this old red stone horror with its corner cupolas, which dominated the square at the city’s center. It spoke to me as the native architecture of my own American past, and when I climbed the worn steps and heard my heels clicking on the floor of the entry hall I had to remind myself that I was an envoy from the future, about to address in their own vocabulary the denizens of the dark ages of secular life.

This was to be a hearing before an Administrative Judge. The State Commissioner of Education had moved to suspend the Community’s license to school its children. A failure to comply with the statutes requiring mandatory literacy for every child was said to be grounds for a suspension.
We were met not in a courtroom but in a room used mostly for jury empanelling in tort cases. It had big windows and dark-green shades pulled against the morning sun. The State had a trio of lawyers. The Judge sat behind another table. There were chairs around the walls for spectators—all filled. As far as I knew, there had been no public announcement of this morning’s hearing. A couple of policemen stood by the doors.
The State argued that in using only the Book of Revelation to teach our children to read and write and, further, that in permitting them ever after to read nothing else than the Book of Revelation, or write nothing but from its passages, we were in default of the literacy statutes. The distinction was made as between education and indoctrination and that the latter as practiced by our cult (I rose to object to that derogatory label) contravened the presumption of literacy as a continuing process, generating ever-widening reading experiences and access to information. Whereas in our close-ended pedagogy, when one text and one text only was all the child was going to read, or recite, or intone, or chant forever after, the open-ended presumption of literacy was negated. The child would learn the text by heart and by rote repeat it with no further call on linguistic skills.
I argued that literacy had no such open-ended presumption, it merely meant the ability to read—that when the State’s own inspectors had sat in on our first- and second-grade classes they had been satisfied that the principles of reading and writing were being taught, in terms of word recognition and phonetics, spelling and grammar, and that it was only when they had discovered, in the upper grades, that the Book of Revelation was the children’s sole reading material that they had found the Community at fault. Yet the children as taught by us are, in fact, able to read anything and are literate. Because we direct their reading and contemplation to the sacred text that is the basis of our beliefs and social organization, the Commissioner would impinge on our right of free religious expression, as set forth in the First Amendment. Every religion teaches its tenets from one generation to the next, I said. And every parent has the right to raise his child according to his beliefs. That is what the parents of our Community were doing and had every right to do, whereas the State’s claim of failed literacy was, on the face of it, an attempt to interfere with a minority’s religious practice of which it does not approve.
The Judge ordered a suspension of our license, but declared at the same time that, the issues being substantive, he would defer his order so as to allow time for a court challenge. It was what I had expected. The lawyers and I shook hands, and that was it.
But as I was leaving the room one of the spectators stopped me, an older man, with gnarled hands and a cane. You are working for the Devil, sir, he said. Shame on you, shame, he called after me. And then, in the corridor, a reporter I recognized was at my side, walking with me at my pace. Playing the freedom-of-religion card, eh, Counsellor? You know, they’ll really be down on you now. Studies, tests, videotapes, school records. Process of discovery.
Nice to see you, I said.
Anyway, you bought yourself six months. Six more months of doing what you do. Except, of course, if your boy is nailed before then.
Christ was nailed, I said.
Yeah, the reporter said, but not for having a Swiss bank account.
I was as relieved to get back to the great valley as a soldier is to get back to his own lines. There was a lovely sense of bustling anticipation as the weekend approached: we were to have an Embrace.
This was a once-a-month occasion when we received the visitors who had heard of us, and made inquiries, or had perhaps attended one of Walter John Harmon’s outside Meetings and found themselves interested enough to spend the day with us. They parked their cars at the Gate and were brought up by hay wagon. In our early days, we didn’t think of security. Now we copied down driver’s licenses and asked for signatures and the names of family members.
On this Saturday morning in May, perhaps two dozen people arrived, many with children, and we greeted them with heartfelt smiles and coffee and cake under the two oak trees. I was not on the Hospitality Squad, but Betty was. She knew how to make people feel comfortable. She was pretty and compassionate, and altogether irresistible, as I well knew. She could immediately spot the most needful tender souls and go right to them. Of course, no one who appeared on these days was notneedful or they wouldn’t have come. But some were skittish or melancholic or so on the edge of despair as to be rudely skeptical.
In the end, no one could withstand the warmth and friendliness of our Embrace. We treated all newcomers like long-lost friends. And we knew how to keep them busy. There was the tour of the residences and the main house, where the children put on a sing. And there was the Enrobing. All the guests were given the muslin robe to wear over their clothes. This had the effect of delighting them as a game would delight them, but it also acclimated them to our appearance. We didn’t seem so strange then. Several long refectory tables were brought out from the carpentry shop, and the guests helped lay the cloths and carry out the bowls and platters with all the wonderful foodstuffs—the meat pies, the vegetables from our gardens, the breads from our bakery, the pitchers of cool well water and homemade lemonade. All the children sat down together at their tables, and all the adults at theirs, there in the warm sun. Every guest was placed between two members, with another directly across. And our Elder Sherman Beasley stood who had a naturally booming voice and he said grace, and everyone tucked in.
It was such a beautiful day. I was able to sit in my place at the end of one of the long tables and forget for a while the threats to our existence and feel blessed to be here under a blue sky and to feel the sun on my face as God’s warmth.
The conversation was lively. We were instructed to try to answer every question as diplomatically as possible. We were not to give doctrine or theology—only the Elders were entrusted to do that.
A shy young woman on my right asked me why she had not seen any dogs in our Community. She was physically unprepossessing, with thick glasses, and she held herself on the bench as if to take up as little space as possible. This is sort of like a big farm, she said in her thin voice, and I’ve never been on a farm that didn’t have a dog or two.

I told her only that dogs were unclean.
She nodded and thought awhile and after a sip of lemonade she said, Everyone here is so happy.
Do you find that odd?
Yes, sort of.
I couldn’t help smiling. We are with Walter John Harmon, I said.
After lunch came our big surprise. We took everyone to the West Section, where, on a pre-laid concrete base, a house was going up for a recently sworn-in couple. The framing was done, and now, as everyone sat in the grass and watched, we men arose and, under the guidance of our carpenters, some of us went to work on the board-and-batten siding, while others were up on the roof beams, laying out the planking, and the skilled among us were fitting out the doors and the windows. Of course, none of the inside finishing would be done that day, but the thrill our guests had was in seeing so many of us making such quick work of building a home. It was a lesson without words. In fact, it was a kind of performance, because we had built the identical home many times over and each man knew what he had to do and where each nail went. There was a natural music to all the hammering and sawing and hauling and grunting, and we could hear our audience laugh and occasionally applaud with delight. 

At the end, as we all stood by, Elder Manfred Jackson presented a scroll to the new first-floor occupants, the Donaldsons, a gray-haired couple, who held hands and wept. After the Donaldsons were embraced by several members and brought to sit down among them, Elder Jackson turned to the visitors and explained what they had witnessed: they had witnessed the Third Attainment.
Manfred Jackson was our only black Elder. He was an imposing figure, tall, his shoulders as squared as a young man’s, though he was in his eighties. His hair was white, and he wore the muslin robe like a king. With the Third Attainment, he said, these communicants of the Unfolding Revelation have forsworn all their personal property and given their wealth to the prophet. The Third Attainment is a considerable step up, for it is no small matter to abjure the false values of the world and rise from its filth. The prophet teaches us that there are seven steps to God-worthiness. Ours will be the kingdom of the chaste and the absolved, because whatever is ours, whatever we possess, whatever we think we cannot do without, we give to the prophet as his burden. He has brought us to live apart from the clamor and lies of the unbelieving. We wear his muslin to declare ourselves in transit. We live in homes to be blown away in the tornado of God. Manfred Jackson pointed out over the valley where the Holy City would descend. We wait upon the glory that needs no sun, he said.
All this time, Walter John Harmon had not been seen. As the day went on, heads turned this way and that, as our guests wondered where was the man who had drawn them here in the first place. By midafternoon, all the organized events, the choir recital, the walking tour of the sacred land, and so on, were concluded, and the visitors began to think of leaving. We had collected their muslin robes as if to give them leave to depart. They were indecisive. Some of their children were still playing with ours. The parents were looking for someone to make the first move toward the hay wagons. In the meantime, we Elders and members continued to walk with them and express pleasure at their coming, gradually drifting with them back toward the Tabernacle. We knew what to expect but we let them discover for themselves the prophet sitting quietly there beside the wooden table. A child saw him first and called out, and it was the children who ran ahead, their parents following, and a murmur of awe went through them as they slowly gathered in the grass and looked upon Walter John Harmon.
This was always a thrilling moment for me, a culmination of the day’s Embrace. See? I wanted to call out, Do you see?, a great surge of pride filling my breast.
The prophet’s custom was to speak to the visitors, but this day he was lost in thought. His eyes were lowered. He sat slightly forward in the chair, one ankle tucked behind the other and his hands folded in his lap. His feet were bare. People settled down in the grass waiting for him to speak, and even the children grew quiet. The ground was cool. The afternoon sun was beginning to throw shadows, and a small breeze blew across the grass and played in the hair of the prophet. More and more members joined us, and there was absolute silence. Betty was suddenly beside me, dropping to her knees, and she took my hand and squeezed it.
Minutes passed. He said nothing. The silence passed the point of our uneasiness or expectation and became significant. A great peace entered me, and I listened to the breeze as if it were a language, as if it were the language of the prophet. When a cloud passed over the sun, I saw the moving shadow on the ground as his writing. It was as if his silence had been transmuted to the language of the pure world of God. It said that all would be well. It said that suffering would cease. It said that our hearts would be healed.
As the silence went on, it became so unendurably beautiful that people began to weep. Someone stepped past me and went to the prophet, as he sat there in his impassive loneliness. It was one of the visitors, a chubby blond child who couldn’t have been more than fifteen or sixteen. She lay down before Walter John Harmon and, curling herself into a fetal position, she touched her forehead to his feet.
Six families among the visitors that day would pledge to the nonresidential tithing that is the First Attainment. But as our Community continued to grow, in a kind of perverse linkage, the attentions of a vindictive world were growing, too. Unfortunately, one of the registrants at the Embrace turned out to be a columnist from a [REDACTED] newspaper, who must have got in under an assumed identity. She described the events of the day accurately enough—such was her craftiness—but the tone of the piece was condescending, if not contemptuous. I could not understand why a columnist would want to come all the way from [REDACTED] to sneer at us. The column was not libellous in the legal sense, but I felt personally betrayed when I recognized from the columnist’s photo the unprepossessing young woman with thick glasses who had sat next to me at the midday luncheon and asked how everyone could be so happy. How underhanded she had been, and with such animosity in her mousy being.
At a steering-committee meeting, the Elders Imperatived that the monthly Embraces should thenceforth be limited to families with children. I thought, given the needful of this world, that such a restriction was unfortunate, but the fact was that we were beginning to feel embattled. Allegations that we were all familiar with, having heard them many times over, were regularly communicated to us—by relatives, friends, or professional contacts on the outside—as if we had to be enlightened: Your prophet is an alcoholic. He abandoned a wife and child. He has grown rich at your expense. How could any of this have been news to us, inasmuch as our prophet was what, in our entirety, we had been? As Walter John Harmon took our evil unto himself, we had emerged newborn, with our addictions, our concupiscence, and our depthless greed lifted from us.

His life was no secret. Every moment of it was a confession. But, as the outer world was as darkly inverted as the negative of a photograph, so was its logic.
Each instance of bad publicity seemed to encourage another suit or investigation. Elder Rafael Altman, our C.P.A., informed us one morning that the I.R.S. had applied for a court order to subpoena the Community books. One of our lawyers was dispatched to apply for an injunction. Those others of us with skills still practiced on the outside met in extraordinary session with the Elders to come up with some over-all strategy for dealing with an increasingly impinging world. Up to this point we had met all bad publicity with a pious silence. Now we decided that, for the prophet’s sake, we must speak out on his behalf, we must give witness. We would not proselytize but we would respond. Judson Berglund, a high Attainist who before coming to us had run his own public-relations firm in [REDACTED], had the Imperative to organize this effort. When a national newsweekly questioned the miracle of the Fremont, [REDACTED], tornado, Berglund saw to it that they printed Elders’ testimony in their Letters to the Editor. An attack by a well-known anticultist we boldly duplicated on our Web site, along with the countervailing responses of dozens of our members. And so on.
It only became us, though, to respond to everything patiently, resolutely, and in the spirit of forgiveness.
Walter John Harmon was typically stoic about the problems mounting up, but as the summer drew to an end and the leaves of the oak trees began to turn he seemed more and more withdrawn, as on that day of the Embrace. He seemed irritated that nothing he did went unnoticed, as if our devotedness were pressing on him. Yet he was called by God to have no private life, no private feelings, and so we worried about him. Our joyful life of peace and reconciliation, the exultant knowledge infused in all our beings of an exquisite righteousness in the sight of God, and the prayerful anticipation of the coming to our green earth of God’s Holy City was shadowed now by our concern for the spirit of His prophet. When the children sang he was inattentive. He took long walks alone in the holy site. I wondered if it was possible that the weight of our sins had already become too burdensome for his mortal soul.
What I remember now is Walter John Harmon standing with my wife, Betty, in the orchard above the Tabernacle on a chilly gray afternoon in October. Clouds dark with rain sailed through the sky. A wind blew. The orchard trees were only three or four years old, the apple, pear, and peach trees not much higher than a man. Only the apple trees were in fruit now, and on this windy gray day, as Betty’s charges ran about picking apples off the ground or reaching for them on the lower branches, I watched her hold an apple out to Walter John Harmon. He took her wrist in his hand and leaned forward and bit into the apple she held. Then she took a bite, and they stood looking into each other’s eyes as they masticated. Then they embraced, and their robes, whipped by the wind, clung to their shapes, and I heard the children laughing and saw them running in circles around my wife and Walter John Harmon in their embrace.
Some mornings after this, members who had gone to pray noticed a robe lying on the ground beside the Tabernacle table. It was his, the prophet’s. We knew that because, for ceremonial occasions, he wore not muslin but linen. Now it lay as if he had dropped it at his feet and walked away. The latchkey was still on the table, but the white stone was on the ground. The Elders were quickly summoned to study the scene. Carpenters placed stanchions around the site so that the gathering members would not disturb anything.
Efforts were made to locate Walter John Harmon. We had never ventured past his front door. This was now found to be open. Inside, the place was a shambles. Empty liquor bottles, broken dishes. His closet was empty. Down at the Gate, someone reported that the Hummer was gone.
At noon, with all work stopped, the Elders announced to the stunned Community that Walter John Harmon was no longer among us. There was absolute silence. Elder Bob Bruce said that the Elders would convene shortly to make a determination as to the meaning of the prophet’s disappearance. He led us in prayer and then urged everyone to go back to their tasks. The teachers were told to take their children back to their classrooms, but as everyone dispersed one group of children stood where they were, there being no teacher to lead them. These were Betty’s charges. Her puzzled colleagues took the children in hand. Everyone was distracted, unsettled.
I could have told them all that the prophet was gone when, the night before, I heard Betty rise from her bed, dress, and slip out the door. I listened and, in a while, in the darkness, I heard through the clear cold night the distant sound of an engine turning over, revving up.
When it was discovered that the prophet had left with my wife, I was called before the Elders. I was invited to join them in their councils. Perhaps they believed that the cuckolded husband was enlightened, as they were not. Perhaps they thought that he was important in other ways. Surely the challenge to no member’s faith could have been greater than the challenge to mine, and if I could forbear and sing the praises of God, who would not sing with me?
Whatever their reasoning, I took solace in their dispensation. My personal grief was subsumed. For the sake of my sanity, I wanted to find resolution and strength from this crisis. But I also understood quite clearly and unemotionally that were I to think of Betty’s betrayal with a forgiving spirit, and concentrate on its larger meaning, I would both ease my heart and put myself forward in the minds of the Elders as an exemplar of our Ideals. In a community such as ours one’s moral currency may someday be exchanged for an executive role.
The discussion went on for three days. I spoke with increasing confidence and have to admit that I had no small part in the deliberations. We came to the following consensus: Walter John Harmon had done what was both required and foreordained by the nature of his prophecy. Not only had he forsaken us who had loved him and depended upon him by running off with one of the purified wives; he had also cast doubt upon the central tenet of his teaching. What further proof did we need of the truth of his prophecy than his total immersion in sin and disgrace? It was thrilling. Elder Al Samuels, a tiny, bent-over octogenarian with the piping, scratched voice of the very old, was also the most philosophically inclined. He said that we were confronted with the beautiful paradox of a prophecy fulfilling itself by means of its negation. Elder Fred Sanders, known and loved for his ebullience, stood up and shouted, Glory be to God for our blessed prophet! We all stood and shouted Hallelujah!

But while all of this was being worked out the Community languished. There was a good deal of crying and wandering about listlessly on the part of many. People could not do their work. Extra prayer sessions were called but went sparsely attended. And a few of the members, poor souls, even packed their meagre belongings and walked down the road to the Gate, heedless of all pleas. I think that is how word got out about our situation—through our dispirited defectors. It did not help that a TV news broadcast showed a picture of the Community from a helicopter flying over us, while an announcer spoke of us as collectively duped, robbed of our estates, and left humiliated and penniless in the middle of nowhere.
It was time to act. On the advice of Judson Berglund, who had so far managed our public relations effectively, a great celebration was prepared, with music from our string musicians and tables of good food and a goodly supply of our ceremonial wine. Work and school were suspended for the people of the Community to gather and be together. Thanks be to God, the weather softened into one of those October days when the sun, low in the sky, casts a golden patina over the land. Yet the sense of irresolution, of bewilderment, did not entirely lift. People wanted to hear the Elders. I noticed that some of the children had sought out their natural parents and now clung to them.
After lunch, the musicians retired, and everyone gathered before the Tabernacle. The Seven Elders arranged themselves on wooden chairs, facing the assemblage. One by one, they rose to speak. Their pronouncement was along the following lines: The prophet has all but warned us that this would come to pass. He said that he would not be among the blessed who would reside in the Holy City. That he has gone so soon is a stunning blow to those of us who loved him, as we all loved him, but we must love him more now that he has done this thing. That is our Imperative. We cannot question what he has done, for it is nothing else but his final sacrifice. He has taken into himself our wealth, our concupiscence, all the sins of the world that we had accumulated, and returned with them to the world, that we might be made righteous in the eyes of God. Nor should we mourn him: if we live as we have lived, and learn as we have learned, wherever he is, will he not still be in our midst? For this reason, from this day forward, we Elders will speak in his voice. We will say his saying and think his thinking. And the prophecy that was is the prophecy that is, as we anticipate the eternality of our life to come. For he has cast the stone down, and the key is here on the table that will open up the door to the Kingdom of God. And when the Four Horsemen come riding over the land and the plagues rise like a miasma from the earth, and the sun turns black and the moon blood red, and when firestorms engulf whole cities, and the nuclear warriors of the world consume one another, the prophet shall be with us, and amidst the carnage and devastation we will be untouched. For God came to earth one day as a whirlwind that spun around this humble man, whose goodness and moral stature only God could see to be His prophet. And we who are your Elders saw it with our own eyes. And we tell you that when God comes down again He will not be a whirlwind, He will be the resplendent self-illuminating city of His glory and His peace, and we who have lived to the prophecy of Walter John Harmon will walk down these pastures and reside there forever.
The Elders were effective. I could see resolution firming up in the postures and facial expressions of the members. Many glances were sent my way. I found myself basking in the reflected glory of my faithless wife who had been chosen by Walter John Harmon to join him in the ultimate sin, his betrayal of the Community.
A day or two later, when one of the women went into the prophet’s house to clean it up, she noticed something under a chair that had been overlooked in all the excitement: a pencil.
Our prophet had never wanted anything written.
The Elder who was summoned discovered something else: in the fireplace, half buried in the ashes, were three sheets of paper that had curled and were slightly charred on the edges but still, miraculously, intact.
On these pages, Walter John Harmon had laid out plans for a wall to be built around our Community. He’d provided sketches and measurements. The Gate down by the highway was to be drawn back to just a hundred and ten yards from our buildings. The wall was to be of stone three cubits thick and four cubits high. The stones were to be gathered from the pasture and from brooks and streams. They were to be bonded with a cement mixture whose proportions he had carefully indicated. And then a cryptic sentence written at the bottom of the last page of instructions added to the mystery: This wall for when the time comes, is what it said.
Clearly this was a discovery of unsettling magnitude. It brought forth only questions. A wall of stone did not accord with the Ideal of impermanence that had guided all our previous construction. What did that mean? Did it amount to a new Ideal? And when would what time come? But he had thrown the plans into the fire. Why?
We simply didn’t know what to do about these plans. Had they not been discarded, almost certainly they would constitute a Demand.
The pages were preserved in a clear plastic folder and put in the safe of the business office pending further study.
In the meantime, we had to sort out our over-all situation. We had been left with very little operating capital. All surrendered estates of members were made liquid through a succession of trusts, and routinely placed in the prophet’s name in several numbered Swiss bank accounts to protect against legal incursion. He had personally dispensed sums as they were applied for by our financial Elder Rafael Altman. We grew our own food and clothed ourselves humbly but we were in arrears for the material costs of our building program, which had gone on more or less continuously as new members arrived. Perhaps we would not have many more new members for a while. But several of our parcels of valley land for the descent of the Holy City were heavily mortgaged. And were we to lose even one of the standing civil suits against us we would be terribly vulnerable.
As the weeks went by, it became apparent that we faced a long cold winter of untold hardship. Our infirmary, with its one doctor and two nurses, tended to a host of ailing children. There were a number of cases of flu. Elder Al Samuels succumbed to pneumonia and we buried him in the rise behind the orchard. The little bent-over man with the piping voice had been well loved, and the fact that he was almost ninety when he passed was no consolation to the Community. My own sadness was only slightly appeased when the surviving Elders elevated me to their company. We need younger blood, Elder Sanders said to me, as he gripped my arm. Our witness is passed to you by decree.

It is now January of the New Year and I write secretly at night in the privacy of my house. Perhaps, as the prophet says, the time for documentation comes only when the world overtakes us. So be it. This has not to do with a loss of faith—mine is strong and does not give way. My belief in Walter John Harmon and the truth of his prophecy does not falter. Yes, I say to the skeptics: It is entirely unlikely that someone as uneducated and hapless and imperfect as this simple garage mechanic can have designed such an inspired worship. And only the sacred touch of God upon his brow can explain it.
The Community as it huddles on these snowy plains is smaller, but by that fact tighter and more resolute, and we gather each morning to thank God for our joyous discovery of Him. But the world is overwhelming, and, if we do not survive, at least this testimony, and others that may be written, will guide future generations to our faith.
Given the general age and infirmity of the Elders, I now function as the managing partner functions in a law office. And Walter John Harmon has come to live through me and will speak in my voice. I have studied the three pages of his plans and I have made the decision that in the first days of thaw we will send our people out to the holy pastures to collect the rocks and boulders for our wall. And one of the newer members, a retired Army colonel to whom I’ve given the plans, has gone out and paced the land. He says it is amazing that our prophet has no military experience. For, as designed, these breastworks take every advantage of the terrain and give us positions for a devastating enfilade.
We are assured of a clear and unimpeded field of fire. 

