THE ACCIDENT
By Gao Xingjian

This is how it happens.
A gust of wind sweeps up a pile of dirt from the roadwork outside Xinhua Bookshop, swirls it around in an arc above the bitumen, and then dumps it everywhere. It isn’t the dust-storm season—the weather is only just starting to turn warm. Some cyclists are still wearing gray cotton overcoats, though on the sidewalks there are young women in pale-blue spring dresses. It happens at five o’clock in the afternoon, right after the fourth beep sounds on the radio in the radio-repair shop on Desheng Avenue. It isn’t the hour when everyone finishes work and traffic congestion is at its worst. Inevitably, however, some people finish work early. Inevitably, too, some people aren’t working at all. So there are busy and idle people coming and going, in an endless stream of cyclists and pedestrians. At this time of day it’s always like this. On the buses, all the seats are taken and some passengers stand, holding on to the handrails as they look out the windows.
A man riding a bicycle that has been fitted with an extra wheel in front, for a baby carriage with a red-and-blue checkered shade, is crossing the street diagonally. Coming from the opposite direction is a two-car trolleybus that is going fast but not too fast. It is clearly moving slower than the small pale-green car that is about to overtake the bicycle, but neither is necessarily exceeding the city speed limit. The man on the bicycle arches his back, pedalling hard, as the little green car passes him on the other side. On this side, the bus is still heading toward him. The man hesitates but he doesn’t brake, and the bicycle with the baby carriage continues its crossing. The bus sounds its horn but doesn’t reduce its speed. By the time the man crosses the white line in the middle of the road, the dust from the gust of wind has settled, so his vision is not obscured. Unblinking, he looks up. He is about forty, not a young man, and his hat is tilted slightly backward, revealing a balding forehead. Sitting in the baby carriage under the shade is a three- or four-year-old child with rosy cheeks. The man must be able to see the bus coming toward him and to hear its horn, which is now sounding continuously. He hesitates again and seems to brake slightly, but then continues clumsily on his diagonal trajectory. As the bus gets closer and closer, its horn gets louder and louder, and then there is a piercing screech of brakes. The bicycle is still moving forward. The bus is trying to stop, but it, too, continues its ominous movement, like a wall closing in. Just as the bus and the bicycle are about to collide, a woman on the sidewalk on this side of the street starts to scream. Pedestrians and cyclists look on, but no one seems capable of moving. The front wheel of the bicycle passes the front of the bus, and the man starts pedalling harder—maybe he will just make it. At the same time, he reaches out to touch the red-and-blue checkered shade, as if he is trying to push it down. When his hand touches the shade, the carriage flies off, bouncing away on its single wheel. The man’s legs are caught as he throws up his arms and falls backward off the bicycle. In the clamor of the horn, the brakes, and the woman’s screams, but before onlookers have time to gasp, the man is crushed under the wheels of the bus. The bicycle he was riding is twisted and thrown ten feet away.
The pedestrians on both sides of the road are stunned, and the cyclists get off their bicycles. There is a sudden silence, the only sound a gentle song coming from the radio-repair shop:
You may remember our meeting in the mist under the broken bridge. __
It is probably a record by some post-Deng Lijun [REDACTED] singer. The bus’s front wheels have come to a stop in a pool of blood, and blood is dripping from the bus back onto the man’s body. The bus driver gets to the body first. Then people from both sides of the street come running, while others surround the overturned baby carriage, which has rolled into the gutter. A middle-aged woman takes the child out of the carriage, shakes him, and examines him all over.
“Is he dead?”
“He’s dead!”
“Is he dead?”
People talk in hushed voices all around. The child’s eyes are tightly shut and his soft skin is so drained of color that you can see the blue veins through it. But there is no sign of external injury.
“Don’t let the driver get away!”
“Hurry, call the police!”
A crowd several layers deep has formed around the front of the bus. Only one man is inquisitive enough to lift up the twisted wreck of the bicycle. Its bell rings as he puts it back down.
“Don’t touch anything! Leave everything as it is!”
“I clearly honked the horn and braked! Everyone saw it—he was trying to kill himself by riding into the bus! How can you say it’s my fault?” In a strained voice, the driver tries to explain, but no one pays any attention.
“You can all be witnesses—all of you saw it!”
“Step aside! Step aside! Step aside, all of you!”
A policeman with a big hat emerges from the crowd.
“The child needs help! Quick! Stop a car and get him to a hospital!”
A young man in a coffee-colored leather jacket runs into the middle of the road, waving his arms. A small Toyota sedan toots its horn as it makes its way through the pedestrians who have spilled onto the street, but it doesn’t stop. Next, a 130 light truck pulls up and comes to a halt. Inside the bus, the passengers are bickering with a woman ticket-seller. Another bus pulls up behind. The doors of the first bus open and the passengers surge out, blocking the bus that has just arrived. There is a loud burst of voices.
I will never, never be able to forget . . .
The noise drowns out the music on the radio. Blood is still dripping, and the smell of it hangs in the air.
“Waaa . . .” The child finally breaks into a howl.
“That’s a good sign!”
“He’s still alive!”
There are happy sighs of relief. As the howling grows louder, the people around the child also come to life: it is as if they have been liberated. They rush to join the crowd by the body.
Wailing sirens. A police car with flashing blue lights on its roof pulls up. Four policemen get out, and the crowd parts to make way for them. Two of them are wielding batons.
The traffic has now come to a standstill and long lines of vehicles are waiting in both directions. Honking horns rise above the din of voices. One of the policemen stations himself in the middle of the road and starts waving his white-gloved hands to direct traffic.
The other policemen summon the ticket-seller from the second bus. She tries to make excuses, but then reluctantly takes the child from the middle-aged woman who has been holding him and gets into the 130 light truck. A white glove signals, and the truck drives off, carrying with it the baby’s shrill sobs.

A policeman is questioning the driver, who is wiping the sweat off his face with his cotton cap. He takes out his driver’s license, in its red plastic holder, and the policeman confiscates it. He immediately starts to complain.
“Why are you trying to deny it? If you ran over the man, then you ran over him!” a young man pushing a bicycle says in a loud voice.
“He was trying to get himself killed. The driver was blowing the horn and braking and the man wouldn’t give way. He just rode under the bus.” The ticket-seller, wearing sleeve protectors, has come out of the first bus to rebuke the young man.
“The man was in the middle of the road and had a child with him. It was broad daylight. The driver must have seen him!” someone in the crowd interjects angrily. “What does it matter to drivers like him if they run someone over? It’s not as if they’ll have to pay for it with their own lives.” This is said sarcastically.
“What a tragedy! If he hadn’t had the child with him, he would have made it across in time!”
“Is there any hope for him?”
“His brain came out?”
“I just heard this plop—”
“You heard it?”
“Yes, it just went plop.”
“Enough! I don’t want to know!”
“Ai, that’s the way life is—a person can die just like that.”
“He’s crying.”
“Who?”
“The driver.”
The driver, squatting on his haunches with his head down, covers his eyes with his cap.
“It was an accident.”
“The man had a child with him? What happened to the child?” a newcomer asks.
“The child wasn’t hurt. He was very lucky.”
“The child was saved.”
“The man is dead!”
“Was he the child’s father?”
“Why did he have to hook a baby carriage to his bicycle? It’s hard enough not to have an accident with a regular bicycle.”
“He’d just picked up the child from nursery school.”
“Nursery schools are hopeless—they won’t let you leave your children there for the whole day.”
“You’re lucky if you can get your kid into one at all.”
“What are you looking at? From now on, if you run across the road without looking—” A big hand drags away a child who is trying to squeeze between the onlookers.
The [REDACTED] star has stopped singing. The front of the radio-repair shop is crowded with people.
An ambulance has arrived, its red lights flashing. Medical personnel in white uniforms carry the body to the ambulance, and the people in shop doorways stand on their toes to watch. The fat cook from a small restaurant nearby has come out in his apron to see what’s going on.
“What happened? Was there an accident? Was someone hurt?”
“It was a father and son. One of them is dead.”
“Which one?”
“The old man.”
“What about the son?”
“Unhurt.”
“That’s terrible! Why didn’t he pull his father out of the way?”
“It was the father who pushed the son out of the way.”
“It’s getting worse with every generation. The man was wasting his time on that son!”
“If you don’t know what happened, then don’t talk crap.”
“Who’s talking crap?”
“I don’t want to argue with you.”
“The child was taken away.”
“There was a small child as well?”
Others have just arrived.
“Do you mind not shoving?”
“Did I shove you?”
“Move on. All of you move on!”
On the outer fringes of the crowd, people are being arrested. Traffic-safety personnel with red armbands are now on the scene, and they are more vicious than the police.
The driver, who is being pushed into the police car, turns and tries to struggle, but the policemen close the door. People start walking and riding away, and the crowd thins, but still more people come along, stopping their bicycles or stepping off the sidewalks and into the street. On this side of the road, a long line of cars, vans, jeeps, and limousines, led by the second bus, make their slow way past the baby carriage with the torn red-and-blue checkered shade, which is still in the gutter. Most of the crowd has dispersed.
In the middle of the road, two policemen take measurements, while another makes notes in a little book. The pool of blood under the wheels of the bus has already started to congeal and turn black. The ticket-seller sits by a window, gazing blankly at this side of the road. On the other side, another bus is approaching. Faces stare from behind the windows and some passengers even poke their heads out. Now the workday is over, and it is peak traffic time. There are even more people on the sidewalks and on bicycles. But the police and the traffic-safety personnel keep them off the road.
“Was there an accident?”
“Was someone killed?”
“Must have been—look at all that blood.”
“Yesterday there was an accident on Jiankang Road. A sixteen-year-old was taken to the hospital, but they couldn’t save him. They said he was an only son.”
“Every family has only one son these days.”
“Ai, how will the parents manage?”
“If no one does anything to improve traffic safety, there’ll only be more accidents!”
“Well, there won’t be fewer accidents, that’s for sure.”
“Every day I worry until my Jiming gets home from school.”
“It’s easier with your son—daughters are more of a worry to their parents.”
“Look, look! They’re taking photographs.”
“A lot of good that will do! It’s too late.”
“Did the bus hit him on purpose?”
“Who knows?”
“The carriage can’t have been attached, or else it would have been hit, too.”
“I was just passing by.”
“Some people drive like maniacs. They’re not going to stop just because you won’t get out of the way!”
“There are people who take out their frustrations by killing other people. Anyone could be a victim.”
“It’s hard to protect yourself against that kind of thing—it’s all determined by fate. In our old village, there was a carpenter who was a good craftsman, but he was very fond of drinking. Once, he was building someone a house and, coming home at night drunk out of his mind, he tripped and smashed his head on a rock.”
“For some reason, my eyelid has been twitching for the past couple of days.”
“Which eye?”
“You shouldn’t walk down the street so lost in thought all the time. Quite a few times I’ve seen you—”
“Nothing’s ever happened to me.”
“But if something did I wouldn’t be able to bear it.”
“Stop it! People are staring.”
The two lovers look at each other and walk off down the street, holding hands.
The police have finished photographing the scene of the accident, and the policeman with the tape measure takes a shovel of dirt and spreads it over the blood. The wind has died down, and it is getting dark. The ticket-seller sitting by the window of the bus has turned on the lights and is counting the day’s take. A policeman shoulders the wrecked bicycle and carries it to the car. Two men with red armbands get the baby carriage from the gutter, put it in the car, and leave with the police.

It is time for dinner. The ticket-seller stands at the door of the bus, waiting impatiently for a new driver to be sent to pick it up. Passersby now barely glance at the empty bus that is stopped for some unknown reason in the middle of the road. In the dark, no one notices the blood, which is covered with dirt and barely visible.
At some point, the street lights come on and the empty bus is driven away. Cars speed down the road again, and it is as if nothing has happened. By midnight, the street is almost empty. A street-cleaning truck approaches from a distant intersection, where the traffic lights flash intermittently next to a blue poster on an iron railing. Printed in white are the words “for your well-being and that of others, please observe traffic rules.” At the spot where the accident occurred, the truck slows and, with high-powered jets of water, flushes away any remaining traces of blood.
The street cleaners have no way of knowing that an accident took place here a few hours ago and that the unfortunate victim died. But who was the victim? In this city of several million people, he was likely known only to his family and his friends. And if he wasn’t carrying identification papers even they may not yet know about the accident. The man was probably the child’s father, and it is possible that the child will be able to tell the authorities his name. If the man was the father, he must have had a wife, too. And yet he was the one picking up the child, so he was both a good father and a good husband. Because he loved his child, presumably he also loved his wife, but did his wife love him? If she loved him, why didn’t she fulfill her responsibilities as a mother and pick up the child herself?
Maybe the man had a miserable life and that’s why he was so distracted. Maybe it was a flaw in his personality and he was always indecisive. Maybe something had been troubling him, something he couldn’t resolve, and he was simply fated to fall victim to this even greater misfortune. However, if he had set out a little later or a little earlier, he might have avoided disaster. Or if, after picking up the child, he had pedalled faster or slower, or if he had spoken longer with the woman at the nursery school, or if, on the way, he had run into a friend and stopped to talk . . .
But it was unavoidable. He had no incurable disease, yet, all the same, he was just waiting to die. No one can escape death. And no city is free of traffic accidents. In every city there is the possibility of death—even if the chance on any given day is one in a million—and in a big city like this someone is always encountering some sort of misfortune. The dead man was one such person. Did he have a premonition before it happened? When it was happening, what did he think about? He probably didn’t have time to think, to comprehend the disaster that was about to befall him. For him, there could be no greater disaster. He was that one in a million, like a grain of sand. But before dying he had clearly thought of the child. Had he nobly sacrificed himself? Or perhaps it wasn’t purely noble—perhaps it was to some extent instinctive, the instinct of a father. People talk about the strength of a mother’s instinct, but there are also mothers who abandon their babies. For the man to have sacrificed himself for the child was indeed noble, but in fact the sacrifice had been entirely avoidable. If he had set out a little later or a little earlier, as I’ve said, if he had not been preoccupied, if he were more resolute by nature, or more agile in his movements . . . The sum total of these failures had hastened his death.
Here I am, discussing philosophy, but life is not philosophy, although philosophy derives from one’s knowledge of life. And there is no need for us to turn life’s traffic accidents into statistics—that’s a job for the traffic-safety department. Of course, a traffic accident can serve as an item in a newspaper. And it can provide the raw material for literature, when it is supplemented by the imagination and described in a moving narrative. But what I have related here is simply the accident itself, a traffic accident that occurred at five o’clock in the central section of Desheng Avenue, in front of the radio-repair shop.
—4368696e61, 1983 

