CRYPTOLOGY
By Leonard Michaels

Nachman had arrived in [REDACTED] the previous evening, and was walking along [REDACTED] when she came up behind him, calling, “Nachman, Nachman, is that you?” He looked back and saw a woman shining with a happiness for which he, apparently, was responsible. His mere existence had turned on her lights. Nachman kissed her on both cheeks, and then they stood chatting at the corner of Forty-second Street, the millions passing with the minutes. When Nachman parted from her, he was holding her business card and the key to her apartment in Chelsea, having promised to join her and her husband for dinner that evening.
“If you arrive before us, just wait in the apartment,” she said. “It’s been so many years, Nachman. I’m [REDACTED] Ferris now. Do you know my husband, Benjamin Strong Ferris? He’s a lawyer. Also a name in computer science and cryptology. I assume you’re in [REDACTED] for the cryptology conference. Benjamin goes there to find geniuses like you for his company.”
“As a matter of fact,” Nachman said, but she was still talking.
“It would be wonderful if we could have a drink, just you and me, and remember the old days, but I have to run. There’ll be time to talk later. I can’t tell you how glad I am that we ran into each other. Actually, Nachman, I followed you for about five blocks. I couldn’t believe it was you. Benjamin will be so delighted. He’s heard me talk about you so often. Should I cook, or should we have dinner out? Oh, let’s decide later.”
When she stopped talking, Nachman said that he didn’t know the name Benjamin Strong Ferris, and he didn’t consider himself a genius. “I’m a good mathematician,” he added. “Good is rare enough, believe me.” [REDACTED] Ferris smiled with affectionate understanding, as if his modesty amused her, but there was also something more. She seemed to believe that a special bond existed between her and Nachman. To disguise his ignorance—what special bond was there between them?—Nachman became expansive, even somewhat confessional. He told [REDACTED] Ferris that he was indeed in [REDACTED] for the cryptology conference; he’d been invited to a job interview by a representative of the Delphic Corporation. But whoever had invited him hadn’t given his name.
[REDACTED] Ferris obviously took great pleasure in listening to Nachman, and yet he saw a blankness in her rapt, almost delirious focus, as if she were not listening so much as appreciating. Her eyes devoured his, and her smile, which had a mischievous quality, also suggested a rictus in its unrelieved tension and shape. This intensity, and her alarming red lipstick, made Nachman think that she wanted to eat him. He wondered if a smile was an evolutionary phenomenon, carried in the genes, a reflexive anticipation of a meal—not necessarily made of people, but who knows what the ancestral diet was? Nachman smiled in response to [REDACTED] Ferris’s smile, but he felt no desire to eat her.
“So the person who invited you didn’t give his name?” she prompted.
“The letter was signed by a secretary. Abigail M. Stokes. She just gave me the name of the hotel and a date and time for the interview. To tell the truth, I didn’t really come to [REDACTED] because of the interview—I wanted to visit my father, who lives in [REDACTED]. I haven’t seen him in years. And, since Delphic was paying for my ticket and hotel room, why not? The interview was set for one o’clock this afternoon, and I figured they were taking me to lunch, but nobody was there to meet me. No one at the hotel desk had heard of the Delphic Corporation, and my room had been paid for by an individual whose name they weren’t free to disclose. So since then I’ve been walking around feeling a little . . . I don’t know what. Weirdly disappointed.”
“It is certainly weird,” [REDACTED] Ferris said. “But why disappointed? You got a free trip to [REDACTED]. How clever of you! You’re sure there was no other name at the bottom of the letter?” she asked. “You know what I mean—it didn’t say something like ‘Abigail M. Stokes for Joe Schmo’?”
Nachman wondered fleetingly if [REDACTED] Ferris thought he was an idiot.
“No Joe Schmo. Somebody anonymous wanted to interview me for a job. I have a job. I’m not looking for another one. But I agreed to come. Why not? I figured I might even learn about cryptology, an exciting field. A good mathematician could make a lot of money fooling with codes. Mind you, I said good. I didn’t say genius.”
“Would you have considered taking the job?”
“Not seriously, though it would be fun to be a millionaire. I fancied myself buying things like a dishwasher, but I don’t work for money. You know what I mean. My salary pays my bills. I work like most people, not to waste my life. Have you been to Santa Monica? That’s where I live. On the beach you see people with nice bodies and no jobs. Also no brains. Life is too short to waste a minute getting a sunburn. I’ve never even taken a vacation. I don’t know why anybody would want to. Anyhow, as I said, I wanted to visit my father. This was an opportunity. Expenses paid by the Delphic mystery man.”
“You don’t own a dishwasher?” [REDACTED] Ferris asked, giggling. “I bet I know what happened. Delphic decided to hire somebody else before you arrived, and then they forgot all about you and went home.”
“But they paid for my ticket and hotel room.”
“They’ll write it off. The cost of doing business. You feel disappointed, but it isn’t the least bit personal. You mean nothing to them.”
“I’m meaningless?”
“Not to me,” [REDACTED] Ferris said. Was she teasing him? Or was she right? To the Delphic people Nachman probably was meaningless.
“I’ve got to go,” she said. “I’m so excited. We’ll have fun tonight.”
As she walked away, Nachman wondered how long it had been since he last saw [REDACTED] Ferris. He also wondered, Who, exactly, was [REDACTED] Ferris?
She remembered him so well. She had called out his name in the street. How could he say, “Who are you?” Another man might have been able to say it. Not Nachman. In a few hours, she would expect him to show up and meet her husband. The prospect of joining strangers for dinner had something adventurous about it, even devilish and appropriate to [REDACTED]. Nachman didn’t know anyone in the city who was as friendly as his old friend [REDACTED] Ferris, whoever she was. He was simply unable to remember her. Her wide cheekbones and dark, roundish face, with its maternally sexy brown eyes, looked [REDACTED], maybe a little Asian, but she might just as easily be Mexican or Puerto Rican. He’d known women who looked like her, but remembered none named [REDACTED]. She was quite attractive, though a little scary. You’d think he’d remember her for that reason. Had she noticed his confusion? People can tell if you recognize them or not. They see it in your eyes, hear it in your voice. Oh, well. Nachman would get the question out of the way when he saw her again. It would be more embarrassing later than it would have been a few minutes ago, but he wouldn’t let the evening pass without confessing. The key to [REDACTED] Ferris’s apartment was in his pants pocket. Her card was in his wallet. Dinner was still a few hours away.
ADVERTISEMENT
Nachman continued walking aimlessly, trying to remember. How do you try to remember? You make yourself passive, receptive, available. If it comes, it comes. A strange kind of trying. He wondered if there had been a clue to her identity in what she’d said. Unfortunately, Nachman had done most of the talking. The look in [REDACTED] Ferris’s eyes and her red smile came to him; nothing else. She refused to step out of the shadows of his mind.
The late-October weather felt summery, but, as the afternoon wore on, Nachman detected a quality in the breeze that was too poignant for summer, had too fine an edge. Another year was nearly over. Nachman liked the poignancy, could almost see it in the changing light. The sun would soon be lower in the sky. Darkness and cold would invade the streets and challenge people’s energy, give steel to their thoughts. Nachman felt as if he were walking heroically into the heart of the drama, the adventure of the city, and not just because of the season. [REDACTED] Ferris was part of [REDACTED]’s endemic adventurousness. The crowds, the traffic, the buildings, the changing weather, the city’s infinite complexity, its unknowability—who could comprehend it? Nachman felt exhilarated. From a certain point of view, there was even an adventure in being stood up at the cryptology conference. Invited, all expenses paid, to come three thousand miles only to find nobody who gives a damn whether you came or not. No explanation, no apology. Not even a note at the hotel desk. This couldn’t have happened in hick towns like [REDACTED], [REDACTED], 4974616c79, [REDACTED], and 4a6170616e. That was what made [REDACTED] great. Nobody gave a shit about anybody.
The truth was that Nachman was enraged. He had smiled as he talked to [REDACTED] Ferris. He hadn’t let her see his anger. She might have thought that he was angry at her.
Nachman chuckled to himself and shook his head ruefully, as if he required a moment of private ironic theatre. His mood became philosophical. After all, he was morally compromised. He’d agreed to the interview in bad faith. He’d had no intention of changing jobs, and had wanted only to visit his father. In fact, he had planned to go directly from the airport to his father’s apartment, but when he phoned—once from the plane, then again from the airport—nobody had answered. His father was old and forgetful. He might have gone out. He might even have gone to visit relatives in [REDACTED]. So Nachman had taken a cab to the hotel. He’d visit his father tomorrow, if the old guy answered the goddam phone. If not, he’d fly back to [REDACTED], feeling that he’d wasted his time.
As for the sense of adventure, the weather and all that, he saw now that it had been a fantasy, a kind of lie. Nachman had simply been trying to give value to this trip. He could kid himself only so long before self-contempt made him see things as they were. Only a fool would accept an invitation to meet somebody who had no name. Nachman was a fool. That was now an established fact. Good. He felt much better.
A few hours later, Nachman entered a building in Chelsea. The doorman, who had been given Nachman’s name, said, “Go right up. Apartment 14-B.” The elevator was brightened by three half-mirrored walls. Nachman could see himself from head to waist in triplicate. These three half Nachmans made him feel less, rather than more, visible. The reflections seemed mental rather than physical, but he was suddenly claustrophobic, as if the elevator were overcrowded. Below the mirrors, there was a walnut-stained surface embossed with carved flowers. A brass strip marked the place where the wood met the gray industrial-carpeted floor. Nachman studied the light fixture directly above his head. A fat bulb glowed through a bowl of cloudy glass that was subtly textured. The elevator spoke for the building, Nachman thought—a confusion of materials suggesting luxurious waste. It carried him slowly to the fourteenth floor, then stopped with a jerk.
Nothing about [REDACTED] Ferris had come to Nachman. He supposed that he must have known her when he was a graduate student at [REDACTED] He’d had quite a few acquaintances then, men and women with whom he’d since lost touch. There had been parties where he’d fallen into intense and transitory intimacy with people to whom he’d only nodded as they passed on campus later, avoiding eye contact. Wait a minute. Hadn’t he once left a party with a dark girl who had been too drunk to drive? Hadn’t he driven her in her Jaguar to her parents’ house in Beverly Hills? Hadn’t they . . . what? The elevator doors opened. No, that girl’s name was Dolores. She looked nothing like [REDACTED] Ferris.
There were four apartment doors, two on either side of the hall, which was carpeted in the same way as the elevator, and was stunningly silent. Dim lights, set in elaborate brass sconces, trailed along the walls. Nachman found the door to 14-B. He looked at a brass-rimmed eyehole as he pressed the black, nipplelike bell. He heard a muffled gong inside the apartment. He waited. Nobody answered. He pressed the bell again and waited. Nobody answered. The key worked. The door opened into a large room.
“Hello,” Nachman said, careful not to shriek. “Anybody home?” No one responded. He stepped inside, shut the door, and realized that he wasn’t alone. An odor of perfumed soap lay on the air, which was faintly moist and warm. He heard water running and glanced at what he guessed was a bathroom door. It was partly open. Someone was taking a shower and had heard nothing because of the noise of the water. Nachman was reluctant to shout. People taking a shower feel defenseless and are easily frightened.
Nachman stood in the large room. It was maybe forty by twenty feet, with a gleaming maple floor. A bar counter separated the kitchen area from the rest of the room. Furniture was clustered in the middle, floating in space. A glass-topped coffee table was set lengthwise between two red sofas, with black chairs at either end. Nachman noticed a rolltop desk against a wall, and a library table holding stacks of papers. The room had tall windows that looked across the avenue toward the windows of other buildings. Near the farthest wall there was a dresser and a bed with night tables and reading lamps. To the right of the bed, a spiral staircase led to an opening in the ceiling, apparently the second floor of the apartment. A suitcase was on the bed. It sat in the middle of a bulky white comforter that had been flung back, revealing silky cobalt-blue sheets. At the foot of the bed was a large television on a wheeled aluminum stand that held magazines on a shelf above the wheels. In the ceiling there were two rows of track lights.
Who was in the shower? [REDACTED] or Benjamin Ferris? In answer to his question, Nachman heard voices. They were amplified in the largely hollow space of the room, as if in the barrel of a drum. The man’s voice was emotionally neutral. The woman’s voice was strained, higher-pitched. It was [REDACTED] Ferris. “I’m not finished. Why don’t you get out and let me finish?” They were showering together, Nachman realized.
ADVERTISEMENT
“I don’t want to have to talk to him alone.”
“Oh, for Christ’s sake. You can talk to him until I come out. Fix him a drink. Turn on the TV and watch the ballgame. Men like sports. You won’t even have to talk to him. Be nice for once in your fucking life.”
“Hey, hey, hey. I’m supposed to be nice? Like I invited the schmuck to the apartment? I’ll pick up the check at dinner, baby, but that’s where it ends. This is your affair.”
“Don’t start with the affair business. He’s not my type.”
“You have types?”
“I’m always nice to your friends, Benjamin, even when they bore me to death.”
“Friend? You said he didn’t even recognize you.”
“So what? He’s drifty. Not your average [REDACTED] cocksmith, like some persons I could name. I’ll remind him who I am at dinner.”
“I’ll be sitting there, for Christ’s sake. He’ll die.”
“He won’t know I told you anything. Besides, he probably doesn’t remember that, either. He’s practically certifiable. I think his fly was unzipped.”
“Don’t make me jealous.”
[REDACTED] Ferris laughed.
Benjamin Ferris went on, “What’s the guy’s name? Nachman?”
“What’s wrong with Nachman?”
“I didn’t say there was anything wrong with it.”
“It’s your tone. You think Ferris is so beautiful? People are always saying, ‘Like the Ferris wheel?’ It embarrasses me.”
Nachman walked past the bathroom, crossing the thirty feet or so to the television set. He put the key on top of the TV. He’d heard enough. He was leaving. As he drew his hand away, the key fell to the floor. It had stuck to his fingertips, which were slightly damp. So were his palms. He was perspiring. The key made a sharp clink when it hit the floor. Nachman bent quickly to retrieve it, as if to undo the noise. If they had heard the key fall, they knew he was in the apartment. He couldn’t leave. He would have to confront them. No. He would shout hello and pretend that he’d just arrived. They would pretend that they didn’t know he’d heard them talking about him. Every word the three of them said would be a lie. He put the key back on the television, and it remained there as he drew his hand away.
He’d never before overheard people talking about him. It was unnerving. He’d been radically objectified, like an insensate rock, while his soul floated in the air. A general hurt spread within his chest and began to seep like a poison through his body. He couldn’t think clearly. It was hard to breathe. Again Nachman felt an impulse to leave, but he couldn’t simply walk back to the door. If they heard the door shut behind him, they’d feel terrible, knowing Nachman had heard them. Why should he care? Nachman cared.
The open suitcase on the bed was large and old-fashioned, made of yellow leather like a beautiful Gladstone, with straps and metal corners. What he saw in the suitcase told him that [REDACTED] and Benjamin were packing for a trip. How nice. They did things together—travelled, showered, bickered, and said vile things about people who had never done them any harm. Their conjugal solidarity was daunting.
If only Nachman had stayed in [REDACTED], he’d have gone to work in his office at the Institute of Mathematics and never heard himself described as a drifty man who walks about with his fly unzipped. Nothing she had said was true, but she had said it. She had actually said it. We were all going to die, but [REDACTED] Ferris had to kill people.
The voices persisted, but Nachman focussed on the suitcase and tried not to listen. Shirts, underwear, dresses, trousers, and tennis shoes lay in a confused pile, and a stack of papers had been tossed on top. Nachman admired the indifference with which the expensive-looking clothes had been flung into the suitcase. He saw passports and airline-ticket envelopes among the papers and reached out to open them. His hands were shaking. His heart swelled as he intruded upon the privacy of strangers. How could he do this?
Before he’d engaged the question, he felt a soft pressure against his leg. He looked down and saw an exceptionally fat Siamese cat. It must have hidden under the bed, frightened of Nachman, but had now clearly decided that he was no threat. The cat leaped onto the bed and stepped into the suitcase, settling on top of the papers, as if it knew that Nachman had been about to look at them. The cat wanted Nachman’s attention. Nachman stroked its back. A fat purring friend come to comfort and console him. While he stroked the cat with one hand, he tried to lift the corners of the papers with the other.
There were no rugs or drapes in the room, nothing to absorb the voices, and the moisture in the air only sharpened them. Nachman wasn’t listening, but then, abruptly, the water noise ceased.
VIDEO FROM THE NEW YORKER
 
“He’s had a hard time,” [REDACTED] Ferris said. “He flew across the country to meet someone at the conference and he was stood up. I felt sorry for him.”
“If I were stood up, I wouldn’t tell anyone. Word gets around. People think you’re a schmuck.”
“He tried to be cheerful, but I could tell he was furious. The minute I said hello he started venting like a maniac.” [REDACTED] Ferris’s voice changed, becoming husky and teasing. “Tell me, Benjamin,” she said.
“What?”
“That I’m beautiful.”
“Come here.”
She laughed. “No, no, no.”
Nachman glanced toward the bathroom door. He imagined [REDACTED] Ferris’s dark-brown hair, cut level with her chin, now a wet black shining cap around her eyes and cheeks. Her mouth, free of lipstick, was softened and bloated by hot water. Nachman thought she’d look better without lipstick. He remembered her motherly sexy eyes. Barefoot, she was maybe five-two, as high as his chest. She had wide hips. Did she have large breasts? Nachman hadn’t noticed.
She squealed. The note was pitched so high that Nachman thought—terrified—that she had entered the room and was staring at him with shock and revulsion.
He shut the suitcase instantly. On the cat. It thrashed against the leather. Instead of flipping the case open, Nachman pressed the lid down harder, as if to hide the evidence. Not too hard, not hurting the cat, but thus, unintentionally, Nachman gave it time to piss.
When he realized that he was alone and hadn’t been seen, he opened the case. The cat sped across the blue silk sheet and jumped onto the maple floor. It vanished behind the bar in the kitchen, and Nachman saw that it had deposited about a gallon of liquid in the suitcase. Letters and legal papers had softened and wrinkled, edges curling as urine attacked their fibres.
In the elevator, Nachman kept his eyes on the doors and didn’t glance at the mirrored walls. He didn’t want to see his reflection. In a spasm of superstitious dread, he thought that if he saw it he might be obliged to leave it behind. He wanted to get entirely out of the building, taking himself and his reflection far away from the Ferris couple, particularly the naked squealing [REDACTED] Ferris. The Ferrises had taken something from him, torn a hole in his existence. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw the doorman nod. Nachman went by with no acknowledgment and was immediately outside in the anonymous street. He wanted no human recognition, however minimal, as he headed downtown. Strangers passed like ghostly shapes in the night. Nachman walked mindlessly, block after block, until, gradually, he stopped feeling devastated and, in the cool nighttime air of the city, recovered the good simplicity of being himself. “A fool,” he said, “but mine own.”
ADVERTISEMENT
He thought about finding a restaurant and having dinner. But he decided that he wasn’t hungry and continued walking. In Washington Square Park, Nachman came to an empty bench and sat down. The paths were shadowed by trees, through which lamplight shone brokenly. He couldn’t make out the features of passersby, and assumed that he was more or less invisible to them, too. Alone, unknown, unseen, he became deeply peaceful and free in his thoughts.
He thought about [REDACTED] Ferris. Her smile, which Nachman had read as anticipation, he now understood had meant something different, like expectation. Nachman had been expected to light up just as she had, but he had failed to recognize her. He was no longer the person he had been.
God knows what she thought of him now. Perhaps she believed that Nachman, not the cat, had pissed in the suitcase. She already thought he was drifty. Now she might think he was insane. What she might say about him beggared the imagination.
She had given him her card. He could phone her tomorrow, or perhaps the day after, from [REDACTED], and explain what had happened. He could ask her to tell him her maiden name. If he finally remembered who she was, he might then be enriched by memories of himself. Memories are far superior to photographs, for example, which are good only for nostalgia, not for understanding. But did Nachman want those memories? The Nachman he no longer remembered was certainly himself. After all, who else could it be? Nachman realized that he had just performed an inductive act. Induction and analogy, in which he was highly gifted, were critical to mathematical intelligence.
It has been said that the unexamined life isn’t worth living. Nachman wasn’t against examining his life, but then what was a life? The day before yesterday he’d been in [REDACTED], and tomorrow he could be almost anywhere on the globe. He could change his name, learn a new language, start a new existence. He could go to an exotic place, get married, have children of various colors and surprising features. People did it all the time. He could herd yaks in Mongolia, or be a slave trader in 537564616e. It took no courage to consult a travel agent. Such metaphysicians were in the phone book. “Get me a flight to Mongolia,” Nachman said to himself. “One way.”
How absurd. He wasn’t adventurous. As for “a life,” it was what you read about in newspaper obituaries. He didn’t need one. He would return to [REDACTED] and think only about mathematics. Just imagining Mongolia, with its bleak and freezing plains, had made him homesick.
On a bench nearby, partly obscured by shadows, a man began playing a guitar. The tune was a bossa nova, exquisitely sad, something like a blues only more finely nuanced and not at all macho. The rhythm was subtly engaging and it seemed to caress Nachman’s heart. He thought again about phoning [REDACTED] Ferris. He’d apologize, certainly, for not having waited until she and her husband came out of the bathroom. Vaguely, he supposed that they might have a lot to say to him. His thoughts became still more vague as they surrendered to the bossa nova, and soon he wasn’t thinking at all, only following the tune. It made a lovely sinuous shape, and then made it again and again, always a little different and yet always the same, as the rhythm carried its exquisite sadness toward infinity. 

