DICK
By Antonya Nelson

The evening sun was a giant peach in the rearview mirror, apocalyptic and gaseous as it burned toward the horizon. The daily paradox of [REDACTED]: toxic beauty. But, for once, Ann Ponders was grateful for the pollution; it capped an argument that she had been making for months. For clean air, for their health, she told herself, they were leaving the only home that her children had ever known. Her husband and son had taken the family’s first car early that morning. But then, moments before Ann was to drive the second car away, the cat had escaped, and she and her eighteen-year-old daughter, Lizzie, had had to wait in the hot empty house for the fickle creature to return. All day they’d sat on the tiled floor in the vacant dining room, or on the kitchen counters, air-conditioning disabled, refrigerator door hanging open, fan inoperable. The outside generator ran the pool, sprinkler, and security systems, but inside all was stultifyingly dead. Every few minutes they hauled themselves up from their slump on the floor to make another useless perimeter sweep. “Kitty, kitty, kitty?” one or the other of them had been calling for hours, circling the yard, the culvert, the street. Neither cared for the cat—she peed on pillows, sharpened her claws on pants legs, licked herself neurotically—but Cole, the eleven-year-old, who’d ridden away with his father at dawn, needed Winky. Taking Winky the thousand miles east to their new home, their hideout in the hills, was non-negotiable.
“Hate that fucking cat,” Ann murmured; the only thing saving the animal was the image of it curled in the armpit of her sleeping son. She hated a few other things, too, such as the way she looked in shorts and a tank top, especially compared with Lizzie, who looked beautiful in whatever she wore. What consolation did age provide? Ann wondered. Bragging rights for having arrived at forty-five or sixty or ninety-nine? You didn’t come through intact, that much was clear. Moreover, the interesting things happened early, a piece of information that Ann was consciously, uncharitably, withholding from her daughter. Packing up their belongings, she’d found crayoned pictures that Lizzie had drawn for her, covered with hearts and a round-headed tribe of people with drunken smiley faces, pledging exclamatory, boundless love. The toddler who’d given herself to those drawings was gone, her features turned angular, her thoughts sour and secret. Easy to love children, harder to love grownups. When Lizzie was only fourteen, Ann had been shocked to discover that she shaved her pubic hair. At fifteen, Lizzie had filled her notebooks with stick figures having scary sex, and then there were the sickening song lyrics that pulsed from her bedroom stereo, the “fuck me” and “cunt” she’d markered onto her shoes. Now, unbidden and often, Ann was visited by one or another of these images, a slide show starring her sunny child who had become an alarming adult. The only help was to picture her boy, Cole, walking toward her with, say, a cookie in each hand—one for himself, one for her.
Lizzie’s cell phone tweetered in her hip pocket and she studied its pink face plate nonchalantly. “Grandma,” she told Ann. When Lizzie raised her eyebrows and held out the ringing phone, Ann shook her head and stepped back, as if her mother could reach through the line for her. “I’m not here,” she said.
Lizzie engaged the line and listened. “Neither is Grandma,” she said. “She must have called by accident. Grandma,” she yelled into the phone. “Pick up, Grandma. She’s in the cafeteria,” she told Ann. “I can hear silverware. Old people muttering.”
Even if Ann’s mother had called on purpose, she probably wouldn’t have remembered why. Alzheimer’s had been stealing her for years now, and the collapse of the World Trade Center towers eleven months earlier seemed to have taken whatever was left. “I used to live in [REDACTED],” she’d said that day, those words and no others, a refrain to accompany the repeating television footage, a refrain that was perhaps her last coherent response to the world—a defense mechanism of the mind, a pressure valve in the heart. She’d had to be moved from one part of her assisted-living facility to another, demoted to the wing where the rooms were more like cells and the assistants more like wardens—wardens or puppeteers, whose patients were wooden dolls that it was their job to animate. Ann’s mother lived this sentence, this shapeless continuous performance, occasionally making random accidental calls, as a fleeting piece of will or inadvertency exerted itself. Ann could leave [REDACTED] now because her mother would never know that she was gone.
“Or maybe it’s bingo,” Lizzie was saying, tuned to the tabletop or the linty interior of her grandmother’s handbag. “Grandma is telling Mrs. Carlyle to stop scaring her.”
“Mrs. Carlyle is dead,” Ann said. “Your grandmother always thinks someone is scaring her. It used to be me.”
“How?”
“By being myself.”
“Same way I scare you,” Lizzie said cheerfully.
“I guess.”
While packing, Ann had also uncovered an old cache of drug paraphernalia—stale pot, brass pipe, razor, and rolled dollar bill—duct-taped inside her own bathroom cupboard. Her clever, duplicitous daughter knew that her parents would never think to look right under their own noses, this girl who also was prone to lose and forget things. “About your grandm—”
“Jesus! I’m going to visit. Whose speed dial did she just hit, anyway? You’ve reminded me eight million times. Why do you have to endlessly repeat things, like I’m an idiot?” Lizzie tucked her cell phone under her chin as she reached around to scratch her back, the pretty knob of her shoulder thrust forward, her halter riding up over the hollow stretch of her belly, the whole smooth suit of skin she wore without thinking. She clapped the phone shut like a castanet. “Goodbye, Grandma. Can we go sit in McDonald’s?”
“I don’t want to miss Winky,” Ann said. But, really, she just didn’t want to be out in public showing so much of her own flesh. She’d planned to be hidden in the car all day, the car that was old and likely to overheat, stuffed full of breakables and a yowling cat in a box who would dictate drive-through food and quick pit stops—a series of factors that had led her to her regrettably skimpy outfit. Wife-beater, her shirt was called; fringed cutoffs.
“Can I go sit in McDonald’s?” Lizzie wasn’t being rude, Ann reminded herself; she was just asking a question. If Cole had asked, she’d have let him go, Cole, who would have returned bearing an order of fries or an apple pie for his mother. Why always this flare of anger with her daughter?
“Go ahead,” she said, and Lizzie walked away, swinging her hips, the lovely thinness she had accomplished through starvation and speed more evidence of that plaguing paradox. You could see the McDonald’s sign from the front door of the house, Toys R Us behind it—Mobil, Exxon, Wendy’s, competing like the waving hands in a class of eager children. At Ann’s future home, in [REDACTED], there would be no plastic signs in sight. Never again from her yard would she hear the muffled sound of a genderless voice at a drive-through intoning, “Please pull forward.”

Cold water still sputtered from the bathtub spigot, tepid and chlorine-scented and already vaguely rusty. Ann sat on the rim dousing her legs. When a knock came—the doorbell was electric, she reminded herself—she had an absurd apprehension that her mother had somehow, in record-shattering time, finagled her way over here from the center, with some cabbie or unwitting do-gooder who’d found her in bedclothes on the street, waving her bingo card. How did she continue to remember Ann’s address when she often couldn’t remember Ann herself? When she did remember—the truth of her situation dawning, however briefly, upon her—she was furious with Ann, as if a colossal conspiracy had been cooked up behind her back. And so it had, Ann thought. But soon her mother’s forgetfulness returned—like a painkiller kicking in—and she’d go back to playing the coy dingbat, the innocent coquette from the cocktail parties of Ann’s youth. The knock sounded again; more likely it was Lizzie at the door, needing cash. Ann vowed not to get mad at her daughter, who, staying behind to attend U.C.[REDACTED], would be charged with visiting her difficult, declining grandmother by herself.
On the stoop, Ann found her son’s friend Dick.
“Dick!”
“Ma’am.” He looked not at her face but in a blinking circle around her, as if following the flying course of a gnat. His odd-shaped head showed the track lines of a recent buzz cut, a monthly ritual that his father executed in the family’s front yard. “I came to say goodbye to Cole,” he said diffidently. Dick never showed much life around adults, as if the effort would be a wasted one, or maybe he was afraid, the inherent dread that a smaller creature has of a larger one. Alone with Cole, however, he was a clown, silly and affectionate. Ann eavesdropped on them, touched by how they loved to laugh, how politely deferential they were with each other, butts wedged into one captain’s chair in front of the computer, drawing cartoons with their heads tipped together, building forts that featured not weapons but foodstuff and flashlights. “Watson,” they addressed each other in hissing British accents, partners in mystery and adventure.
“Oh, Dick, I’m so sorry. Cole is gone!” Ann flushed—guilty, sorrowful. She’d engineered this separation of best friends. Subtly but relentlessly, slowly undermining her family’s connections to [REDACTED], this last muddled and frightening year, nudging them off their foundations and onto the road, away.
“Gone?” Dick said, his face falling.
“I’m so, so sorry, Dick.”
“Gone?” he repeated. Had Cole forgotten to say goodbye? Dick lived down the street. The two boys had come home from the hospital only a week apart; together, they’d pedalled their Big Wheels back and forth on the sidewalk as toddlers, then braved kindergarten with matching backpacks and lunchboxes. For years they’d gone around with their arms slung over each other’s neck. “We’re not gay,” they had informed Ann sincerely one day. “We’re like brothers.” When Dick called on the phone, he always announced himself: “Hello, this is Dick.” That name like a punch line, a throwback from the nineteen-forties: Dick and his sidekick, Jane, and their dog, Spot. The boys had been friends for years before Ann realized that her husband shared Dick’s full name. Richard, however, had never let anyone call him Dick. What had Dick’s parents been thinking?
But Cole probably seemed like a strange name to Dick’s parents. Their bedraggled ranch house was surrounded by chain link, inside of which roamed two Rottweilers—“the living moat,” Dick’s father called them. These dogs would leap and froth when anyone approached the yard, eventually turning their ecstatic fury on each other, one chomping into the other’s throat until there was a whimpering retreat. In the house proper, Dick’s family bred Rottweilers; a litter was nearly always on the way or occupying a kids’ plastic play pool in the living room. The house smelled intensely, nauseatingly, of dog—Dick carried the gamy odor with him, on his clothes and in his hair. You could smell it on the pillow after he’d spent the night. His father, who insisted that all children call him “sir,” believed in discipline and respect, rules and belts. On the rare occasions when he, instead of one of Dick’s brothers, came to retrieve Dick, he stood rocking on his heels at the Ponderses’ front door, refusing in his clipped manner—“No, Ma’am”—the invitation to step inside, as if Ann had greeted him naked, holding a highball. Her easy willingness to allow him entry somehow violated protocol. She had no watchdog or fence; she didn’t even seem to realize that her husband wasn’t home. When the boys came tearing breathless from Cole’s room, a sober palm would be clamped onto Dick’s shoulder, followed by a command to thank Ann for her hospitality, and then the forced march home.
Today she stared at the boy, aware that she would probably never see him again. “Do you want to come in, Dick?” But what for? She had no treats to offer, not even a chair to sit on.
“No,” he said. “Thanks,” he added, pawing at the stoop with his feet. “Can I go up in the tree house?” he finally asked, rolling his gaze painfully to her face.
“Of course!” Rather than come into the house, he squeezed along the side yard, beating through the unruly oleander. Ann followed from inside, watching at the kitchen window as he climbed the ladder.
The boys had been born during the Gulf War. That was the safe topic that Ann could fall back on with Dick’s mother. Their politics were not the same—they knew to keep their husbands separated and not to mention the bumper stickers regarding guns on their respective vehicles—but biology had made them friends of a sort. Even as Ann gave birth, she had thought about some poor woman in 49726171 having a baby. Bad enough to be in [REDACTED], ignored, as the entire maternity ward gathered around the television to watch the eerie green light of deployed Scud missiles. What if you were over there, hearing—feeling—them detonate? No matter where on the globe you lived, giving birth was fundamentally the same.
Dick’s mother had four sons, Dick her youngest. The oldest had recently joined the Army, and Dick was supremely proud of that fact. His two other brothers—twins—were bullies, brats. But Dick was neither a bully nor a brat; like Cole, he was rangy, unathletic. They were children who deferred by instinct, not peacemakers but peacekeepers, knobby-kneed boys who had to be prompted to eat and encouraged to defend themselves against other children. Ann had liked to think that Dick found her home a respite, her family a good influence. And now he’d missed his chance to say goodbye.
For half an hour, he sat dejected in the tree house, not even swinging his legs. Finally, he climbed down, squeezed back through the oleander, and was heading down the flagstones to the curb when Ann opened the front door. “Goodbye, Dick,” she called.
He turned without stopping, his shoulders slumped, scuffing his feet in baggy pants that were far too big for him. This gang-inspired fashion statement was another on the list of Reasons to Leave [REDACTED] “Your cat is dead,” he called back. His words, delivered in his typically uninflected way, took a moment to register. It was as if he were reporting that Ann had mail.

“Dick,” she cajoled. He understood that she was questioning the truth of what he’d said; he had a history of telling outrageous lies—a habit, which he shared with Cole, of make-believe and stories.
“Really,” he said flatly. “Look in your pool.”
The air was glaringly, blindingly clear in [REDACTED]; you had to wear sunglasses to step into it. Behind the Ponderses’ new house, the foothills began, meadowlarks calling out their exhaustive song, that insistent, badgering good will. Everywhere you wanted to go, you could walk or ride a bike. The dogs were variously sized but all golden, tails like happy flags. This was the other, better [REDACTED], with its flagrant seasons—first the red and orange and yellow leaves, which fell, it seemed, in a single mad afternoon, and then the snow, days and days, layer upon layer, the little city become a smooth hibernating drift, punctuated by chimneys with their nostalgic puffs of smoke. The lack of man-made racket was sometimes eerie, as if the landscape were just waiting for something to happen.
“Did we do the right thing?” Richard would ask, putting his hands tentatively on Ann’s shoulders.
She would resist the impulse to shake them off, restrain the flash of impatience she felt: wasn’t it obvious, this beauty just outside their door? A tangible beauty, like hard candy, something you could bite. She wanted to ignore his real question, which was about the intangible, the baffling way in which his wife, without his permission or precise knowledge, had changed in recent years. He must have sensed that Ann’s love for him was gone; he was hoping to wait it out, or lure it home, or, best of all, to wake one morning and discover that this time had been merely a bad dream. “Of course we did the right thing,” she answered, if she answered.
At Thanksgiving, Ann went by herself to the airport to meet the flight from [REDACTED] She’d forgotten that you couldn’t greet people at the gates anymore, that you had to lurk by the baggage claim. She had pictured herself standing with open arms as her mother emerged panicked from the Jetway tunnel. But Lizzie arrived by herself.
“Where’s Grandma?” Ann asked, her eyes casting over her daughter’s shoulder, searching among the throng of visiting mothers for that small lost one who was hers. Lizzie, hair bent at strange angles around her face, wore a peeved, defensive expression; she knew she was going to be blamed for something that wasn’t her fault. The plan, the careful set of directives that Ann had supplied to a dozen different people in [REDACTED], were supposed to have resulted in Ann’s mother’s arriving in [REDACTED] for Thanksgiving.
“She bailed.”
“What?”
“I know, I know.” Lizzie gave her attention to the baggage conveyor belt, now honking, now disgorging luggage. “We’re at LAX, our bags are checked, we have a vodka for her nerves, then another for mine, then we’re in line at security—all this time she keeps calling me her abductor, but not like a paranoid wack job, like a joke, you know how she gets after vodka—then she takes one look at the guy putting his hand in people’s shoes and, voilà, she freaks.” Lizzie had herded Ann over to the belt as she talked, all the time watching for her suitcase. She bent now to retrieve a large boxy floral bag that Ann recalled from her own childhood. Her mother’s bag, indisputable—big enough to contain its owner. Tapestry, worn to threads at the corners, part of a set that had gone with her parents many times abroad, on ships and trains, Turkish cabs, South American buses, in a former gadabout life.
“Why is your grandmother’s suitcase here?”
“It was already checked. In my name. You carry it—it weighs hardly anything. God knows what she packed. She had Equal packets stuffed in all her pockets.”
“Where is she now?”
“At the center. I got her a cab. She was back safe in her room before the plane even took off. I called to make sure. Why do you always assume that I’m a complete idiot?”
“I just don’t understand . . .”
“Security is such a fucking hassle nowadays, and she was really pissing me off.”
“Please don’t talk about your grandmother that way.”
“I notice you’re not there to deal with her.”
“I can’t believe you—”
“Hey, Mom, you know what? No matter what I did, you would be mad right now. Think about it: if I come, you’re mad ’cause I left her. If I don’t come, you’re mad because, hey, it’s Thanksgiving, where’s the family?” Lizzie waited for argument, her eyes belligerent. But the words “left her” recalled for Ann that it was she, not her daughter, who had done this to her mother. She let the subject drop. Lizzie turned to heave her own suitcase off the belt and began dragging it ahead of Ann, as if she knew where the car was parked.
“Dude!” Lizzie greeted her brother an hour and a half later, in Fort Collins. Unprompted, he threw his arms around her. “What’s with the outfit?” she asked.
“It’s a uniform?” he said, looking doubtfully at his shirt.
“I let you out of my sight for three months, you go geek.” He submitted happily as she untucked his shirttails and frowsed his hair. They had their own intimacy, Ann saw with a tender pang, one completely removed from her or their father. Richard was trying to catch her eye, to let her know that he saw it, too, but she wouldn’t look at him. She was training herself to scorn his collusion. But why?
The children shared amused glances over the Thanksgiving table, cracking obscure jokes that seemed to be at their parents’ expense. Ann envisioned them as grownup siblings. This, perhaps, was the consolation she had been looking for, the knowledge that her children would remain loyal, phone each other from their dorm rooms and apartments, keep track and reminisce. Someday, she thought, they would be comparing notes about their parents, lodging their complaints. Their father, Cole would speculate, had always had a soft spot for Lizzie; Lizzie would laugh—she and Cole would be drinking beer at a bar or whispering in the kitchen of one of their homes while their children and spouses slept—reminding him that their mother had obviously preferred him.
This would be after Ann and Richard were old, or maybe even dead, Ann thought. Neither age nor death seemed quite so formidable, seen in this light. She flushed when she thought of the secret she had kept for years now, her escape clause: she had given herself permission to divorce her husband when Cole graduated from high school. If she felt like divorcing him then, she would do it. If she left him, though, her children would be having a different conversation in that kitchen or bar she’d dreamed up. There would be no disagreement about whose fault a divorce was.
“Doesn’t Lizzie look awfully thin?” Richard asked in a whisper, in bed. “Did you smell cigarettes on her?”
His worries seemed so pale to Ann, so little, and so late. Their daughter was no longer theirs; the world had had its way with her. Ann’s anxiety had to do with Cole. What was Lizzie saying to him when Ann and Richard weren’t around? It wasn’t cigarette smoke that wafted worrisomely here but the whiff of [REDACTED], that musk of volatile adolescence which had been let into the house.

"Can I call Dick?” Cole asked Ann the Sunday after Thanksgiving, when Richard was driving Lizzie to the airport. While Ann skimmed the newspaper, Cole stared out the kitchen window into the dusk. His sister’s departure had no doubt contributed to his loneliness; all weekend she’d played her loud music and monopolized the second bathroom and shown him interesting Internet sites—then abruptly she had packed up her cosmetics and clothes and disappeared, leaving the house vibrantly still, the only sound the wet chugging of the dishwasher.
“Why Dick?” Ann asked.
“Never mind.”
“No, it’s O.K. Call Dick.” Back in [REDACTED], although they lived within shouting distance of each other, they’d had lengthy aimless telephone conversations, Cole pacing around the house, laughing and gesturing. Ann imagined him pacing through this new house, filling Dick in on all that was strange: home, school, weather. She had assured Cole before they moved that his real friends were ones he would keep all his life, no matter where he lived, friends who were more like family. Years from now, she’d told him, you’ll be calling Dick in the middle of the night just to chat. She had told him this, although she suspected that he would outgrow Dick. Dick would adopt the politics and values of his family, would follow in his oldest brother’s footsteps first and enlist in the military, and then later move into the blue-collar world of his father, who installed heaters and coolers in addition to breeding dogs. Meanwhile, Cole would go to college and graduate school; he cared too much about injustice for politics not to matter, and Dick’s conservative mind-set would bother him. Moving had allowed the break to seem like nobody’s fault, sad yet unavoidable.
Not unavoidable, Ann scolded herself. She had insisted, she had cried, she had shamelessly exploited the national disaster to substantiate her fear, her conviction that they needed to retreat to higher ground, and her husband had finally acquiesced. “The important things,” Ann had assured Cole in [REDACTED], “are coming with us.”
“Not Lizzie,” he’d responded. “Not Grandma.”
Like Cole, she still thought of [REDACTED] as home. They held the configuration of their old house in their minds, as if they could return to it, sleep in its beds or boil water at the stove overlooking the window to the back yard. As if the cat would jump onto that windowsill, the way she often had, and press her dusty nose against the glass, leaving another in a long pattern of smudges.
Ann passed her son the phone and noted how his fingers flew over the keypad, Dick’s number still a reflex of his hand.
“This is Cole,” he said. “Is Dick there?” He paused, his eyebrows pinched. “Dick? It is? I don’t know, it didn’t sound like you. I guess.” He paused again. “O.K. Bye.”
“That was the shortest call to Dick I ever heard. What happened?”
“I don’t know.” Cole set the phone back in its cradle. “I don’t think that was Dick.”
“Maybe one of the twins was pretending to be Dick?”
“Probably.” Cole gave his mother a trembling look. “If it was Dick, he sounded weird.”
“Weird how?”
“Depressed. It didn’t sound like him at all.”
“His voice could be changing.”
“Yeah,” he said, unconvinced. Lizzie would have marvelled at such a phone call for a long time, turning it over with her mother, then phoning up other friends to analyze it ad nauseam, but Cole just wandered away, troubled and scowling. He had a stoic’s reserve, the sort that bred ulcers, migraines. Later, Ann would mention the call again, maybe when she was tucking him into bed, on her knees with her cheek next to his on the pillow. She would tell him to try calling Dick back in a week or so, that he’d probably been having a bad day or one of his brothers was playing a joke—either way, Cole could call again.
She hadn’t told him that Winky was dead. Returning from McDonald’s, Lizzie had found Ann depositing the cat’s bloated body in the Dumpster out front.
“Oh, my God! Well, you said you hated that eff-ing cat,” she said, sucking the last of her soda noisily up through a straw.
Ann whirled on her. “You think that meant I wanted her dead?”
“I’m just commenting.”
“I don’t like your comment.” Ann wanted to slap some feeling into her daughter’s face. The cat had been spinning in one place in the pool, held there by the action of the filter. There was something scarily beautiful about the sight, the fluttering smoothness of the fur, the animal’s perfect weightless suspension and revolution. Remarkable that neither Ann nor Lizzie had noticed it before. Dick’s treetop view had been better than their ground-level one.
They had agreed that it would be best to spare Cole the death of his pet. They’d say that the cat had simply not wanted to move, that she had chosen to stay in the neighborhood, that Lizzie would drive over and fill a food bowl every few days and keep them posted in [REDACTED]. If Dick ever mentioned the dead cat, Ann decided, she’d deny it, reminding Cole what a liar Dick was known to be.
"Hi, Ann, it’s Nancy,” the woman on the phone said. Her voice was weary and familiar, and Ann exclaimed, generically sociable, making small talk as she tried to figure out which Nancy it was. She knew three or four. Why would this Nancy assume that she was the only one? The longer they exchanged pleasantries—Was she settled in after the move? Did she miss [REDACTED]? And how was Cole?—the stranger the conversation seemed. At what point would Ann confess that she had no idea whom she was talking to? Finally Nancy said, sighing, “I’m really calling to find out if Dick has tried to reach you.” Her voice instantly assumed a location and a body—overweight, red-headed Nancy, Ann’s former neighbor, with her brood of boys and dogs.
“Dick?”
“He’s run away.”
“Oh, my Lord, Nancy. When?”
“Three days ago. I thought maybe Cole would know something.”
Ann took the phone with her to the window; she needed to find her boy. The yard at first seemed empty, nothing but snow and the things it covered, a slight wind lifting faint glittering waves of it. And then there he was, the sight of him allowing her to breathe once more, pulling a sled, hauling logs from one end of the yard to the other, big rubber snow boots weighing him to the ground. He was talking to himself, she saw, telling a story, lost inside it. This was the kind of thing that he and Dick had done together. Their alternative universe, ready-made and waiting. Ann’s eyes filled with tears; she could not bring up words. “Nancy,” she said. “I’m so sorry.” Sorry, and shamefully grateful, with her boy penned there in the yard.
“He’s called us a couple of times, so we know he’s alive. We’re praying that he’s just blowing off steam.” Nancy sighed. “It’s been such a hard year for him, you know?” she went on pensively. “He started sixth grade at the middle school, and everything was different. You wouldn’t have recognized him, Ann. I mean, you know he’s always been kind of shy, but he turned plain sullen. He put on weight, got pimples, the usual stuff, and he wouldn’t joke around anymore.”

“Poor guy,” Ann said softly, gazing at her own boy, with his flawless skin, his long, graceful hands.
“And his critters started dying. The rats, the iguana, the lovebirds. I thought it was coincidence, but now I’m not so sure. I even found him pulling the legs off the lizards in the yard, like he thought they might grow back the way the tails do. But he knew better.” Nancy continued talking, citing her evidence with surprise in her voice, argument, even—as if she were making a case built on contradictions. It began with his separating himself from others, missing school to hang out at the Circle K, not speaking at home, painting his windows black—black! Hiding from his family in the overgrown culvert behind their house, that harsh place full of thistles and weeds and trash. Apparently, the news of Dick’s decline was something Nancy had already reported so many times that she had stepped beyond its initial impact. It was a story, one that she would probably be telling herself for the rest of her life, refashioning it as its ending became clearer. He had disappeared. He had been disappearing all year. She should have known, she would say. He was so quiet after he went to middle school. He’d started an awkward and unattractive puberty. He’d had a hard time making friends. He didn’t have any friends.
He didn’t have any friends. “I don’t know how I’ll tell Cole,” Ann thought aloud, watching her son arrange the wood in the shape of a cabin at the other end of the yard, still talking to himself. He would abandon this habit, become self-conscious, probably within the next few months. It took a great deal of restraint not to drop the phone and run out and hold him against her—as if Dick might find him first and claim him.
“I’m so glad that Cole didn’t answer the phone,” Nancy said. “I just couldn’t have talked to that sweet child.” She paused. “But maybe you could make sure he hasn’t heard from Dick?”
While Cole stomped through the snow, Nancy berated herself, saying that she should have known how upset Dick was, that last day, by the way he’d walked through the puddles on the way to school, “letting all of that street . . . shit . . . get on him.” Ann was shocked. Not by the puddles—boys, puddles, what could be more predictable?—but by Nancy’s resorting to profanity. “He’s hiding somewhere, I know, and he’s afraid to come back.” His father’s wrath, Ann thought, his mother’s fear—the glory of his having inspired it, the awesomeness of its combined force. Nancy said, “I mean, he became obsessed with negative things—black windows and all those dead pets. When did he get so fascinated with . . . badness?”
This made Ann recall Winky the cat, her black body twirling in the corner of the pool, the net extraordinarily heavy with its saturated load. Her neck had been broken by a dog, Ann had told her daughter, inventing an explanation, a chase among members of the natural order that had ended tragically.
“Please pray for us,” Nancy said in closing. It cost Ann nothing to agree.
Richard, listening later to the news about Dick, was stunned. He had a hard time assimilating information that he didn’t want to believe. It was as if his loyal heart had thrown up a shield around him, fending off the darker impulses. She had not done what she’d told Nancy she would do—ask Cole if he’d heard from his friend. She waited until her son was asleep, until she and Richard were in bed. Then, when he began stroking her breasts, a preamble to sex, she stopped him with the news. His hand froze, moved back to his own chest, Richard immobilized, speechless.
“Those poor people,” he said finally. “Those poor, poor people.” He disagreed with her plan to withhold the news from Cole: he might know something crucial. What if the situation were reversed, he said, wouldn’t Ann want Nancy to ask Dick?
“But Cole would never run away,” Ann insisted. “And I can tell by looking at him that he hasn’t heard from Dick. He’d tell me.”
They lay in bed, talking quietly. Aside from issues relating to the children, they didn’t spend much time, anymore, talking. “You know what else, Rich? I think maybe our moving played some part in Dick’s changing. I mean, the cat was the first dead-animal incident. It was Dick who told me.”
“What cat?”
Ann closed her mouth, realizing for the first time that the kind lie she’d told Cole the summer before had not been corrected for her husband. Even Lizzie had heard a truer version of events than Richard had. “Winky,” she said. “On moving day.” Now she explained, a revelation that made him angry with her, surprisingly angry. He rose up on an elbow and looked down on her. Why would she treat him like a child? he asked. Why wouldn’t she tell him this? “I don’t know,” she said, miserable. He just wasn’t part of her inner life; it was as if she’d already started to leave him, packing herself up in preparation, one secret at a time.
Richard lay awake beside her. Then he suddenly rolled out of bed, and Ann heard him go into Cole’s room down the hall. When she got there, he was gently but insistently rousing their boy. “Son?” he said.
“Don’t!” Ann said. “He needs his sleep.”
But Richard would not be dissuaded. When Cole finally woke, he told them that he hadn’t spoken to Dick since that last weird phone call.
“Weird phone call?” Richard demanded, as if Ann had withheld that from him, too.
Her son sat sleepily awestruck, a frown gathering on his forehead. “Where’s Dick?” he asked.
It became a nightly query. Where was Dick? Now, as bedtime approached, Ann felt Cole’s terror growing. In the dark, he imagined that the worst had happened to his friend. He imagined his worst, Dick’s mother imagined her worst, everyone suffering a private fictional nightmare. At bedtime, Ann crawled in beside him in the bottom bunk, lying there until he fell asleep, assuring him that Dick was merely hiding at a friend’s house, that he would be found and brought home.
“But whose house would he hide in?” Cole pointed out. “What friend?”
Christmas came tainted. When Cole was asked what he wanted, he said that he wanted to go home and meant [REDACTED] He wished for nothing else. Lizzie flew in from [REDACTED], once more without her grandmother. This time, the woman had turned tail when she saw the cab at the curb of the nursing home.
“If you want to see her,” Lizzie told her mother nonchalantly as she reached to switch on the car radio, “you’re going to have to get your ass back to [REDACTED]”
Christmas Eve, Ann woke from a dream that it was Dick she’d found dead, swirling there in the swimming pool.
“What’s wrong?” Richard asked, half asleep, his kind blind hand reaching, out of habit, to reassure her.
“Nothing,” she said, sliding away from his touch.

Cole’s twelfth birthday fell on a bitter January Saturday. Under duress, he’d invited three boys, somewhat randomly—they were in his grade, they lived nearby. The doorbell rang at noon, although the party wouldn’t start until four; the cake was still baking, the decorations unhung. Ann opened the door to find Dick’s parents on her doorstep, holding a puppy with a bow around its neck.
 
“We couldn’t just sit there doing nothing,” Nancy explained as Ann invited them inside. Her husband came in reluctantly, never having entered Ann’s home before. But both the weather and the situation were too raw now for him to stand outside. The couple looked haunted, as if drained of a shared vital fluid. It occurred to Ann that they couldn’t be completely sane at this moment. “We’re looking for Dick,” Nancy said. “We thought he might have come to [REDACTED]. Gary saw it in a dream, the KOA campground in Fort Collins.”
Dick’s father blushed deeply inside the hood of his hunter’s camouflage jacket. He was not a man accustomed to sharing his dreams, to having them made public. Nancy touched his sleeve with her free hand. This was how they stayed together, Ann saw—by giving permission, comfort, by being so much the other’s missing half.
“Sit down,” she said, indicating the couch before the hearth, where she’d just lit a fire. “Richard and Cole are out buying hot dogs. It’s Cole’s birthday.” The smell of the cake baking was in the air; balloons were drifting under the dining-room table.
“And we brought him a present,” Nancy said. “There’s nothing like a Rottie, you’ll see.” She held the animal up by its armpits, its little lump of a penis damp on its tight pink stomach. Ann took the dog awkwardly. It smelled like the family’s house in [REDACTED], like Dick.
“What about the other boys?” Ann asked, breathing through her mouth, blinking away tears, as the puppy nuzzled into the crook of her arm.
“We didn’t clip his tail,” Nancy said of the dog. “We thought you wouldn’t want him clipped.”
“The other boys are with Gary, Jr.,” Dick’s father said. “He was fixing to be called up for duty, but we made this a priority. We’re taking a proactive, uh—” he said, waving his hand as memory failed him.
“Stance,” Nancy supplied.
“Stance.” He wouldn’t meet Ann’s eyes. Just like Dick, that way. She guessed that he resented his youngest son for preventing his eldest from serving his country in this, its time of need.
In the lull, Ann thought to offer beverages—soda, tea, water—but what Dick’s father requested was wine. And she liked him briefly for it. A little sympathetic tendril went out—she would have wine, too—then recoiled as she set the puppy on the kitchen floor. Seeing it precarious on the linoleum, legs braced and quivering, she had a chilly intuition: this visit was not just to deliver a dog. They hadn’t believed her when she said that Cole hadn’t heard from Dick. They had come to see for themselves. She had to restrain herself from storming back into the living room, leading them on a glorious search of the premises, flinging open closets and thrusting their faces into the empty spaces beneath the beds. As if she would keep that kind of secret.
“Listen,” Gary said, after tossing his wine back like a dose of something medicinal. “We want to question your boy.”
Nancy reached a hand in either direction, spreading herself between Ann and her husband as if to ward off blows. “Just talk to him,” she said. “Honey, we don’t want to scare him. I would never scare that sweet boy.”
“It’s his birthday,” Ann said helplessly, hearing the familiar punk, punk of the car doors slamming outside. Cole burst through the foyer, having recognized his friend’s car in the drive, the [REDACTED] plates. Every adult in the room watched his face fill with the knowledge that Dick had not made a miraculous journey to join him on his birthday.
“The KOA is closed,” Nancy had been saying. Ann now watched her take in Cole—his new height, the very faint hint of a soft mustache on his upper lip—Nancy’s emotions so close to the surface, the sincere and fraught affection she had for the boy. Nancy would never not know Cole, Ann realized. None of them would ever not know the others. The dog, now sleeping in her arms—if they accepted this gift—would live with Ann for years to come.
Cole went directly to Nancy, laying his head on her chest and squeezing shut his eyes.
Richard did not want the puppy. Good deeds would help heal Dick’s family’s hurt, Ann insisted, but she wondered whether her openness had more to do with opposing Richard than with the inherent wisdom of adopting the dog. Whatever the reason, she won. She almost always won when she and Richard disagreed. He loved her too much.
“What will you call it?” they asked Cole.
“Dick,” he said.
Dick the dog cried in the dark night, a strangely escalating ululation that started at around two in the morning. It was as if he were being tortured, as if solitude were killing him. Only human contact comforted him. Richard, who was the lightest sleeper, performed this role. Ann found him one predawn morning, sitting in the kitchen in the dim light of the open oven door, cradling the puppy like a baby, stroking it mindlessly. Her husband looked languorous and fatigued, in that parental fugue state of too little sleep, too much tenderness. Not every man would do this, Ann told herself. The dog slept against Richard’s chest, fat paws limp and folded at his chin. It was a scene to make her heart relent. Perhaps they should have had another child, a youngster to keep them young themselves, to distract them from the leakage of playfulness from the house, to preserve innocence.
When Richard glanced up and saw her watching him, his face clouded, as if he were ashamed at, or perhaps only irritated by, having been caught. She had done this, made him uneasy with his own love.
Cole continued to ask about Dick. One night, Ann listened from the dark hallway as Richard comforted him. “Sometimes people grow so unhappy,” he said, “that they think running away is the only solution.” He went on to describe the hills and valleys of a lifetime, the fact that some people couldn’t recognize a hard time as a temporary circumstance. He was positing a landscape, wide and full, elevations and declivities, a map meant to reassure himself, too, Ann thought, charting something that would allay his own fears about his wife, his daughter, his life. Cole said nothing, though Ann could tell that he was listening. Even as she was grateful to Richard for his gentle intelligence, she found herself arguing against it. Surely there was some instance in which running away was the answer?
In the hallway, Richard passed without meeting her eyes, not exactly cold, but wary. His steps faded down the stairs. The light in Cole’s room was off, and Ann waited to hear him cry or call for her, and, when he didn’t, she put her face to the crack in his open door. “Do you want me to lie down with you?” she asked into the dark.

“That’s O.K.,” he said, declining. She entered the room anyway, and knelt by the bed, like a child saying prayers.
“What are you thinking?” she whispered. His hair smelled sour; he still needed reminding to bathe.
After a long silence, he turned to face her. “About Dick.”
“What about Dick?”
“Me and him were going to live on a ranch,” Cole said. Growing accustomed to the dark, Ann could see his hands folded under his cheek, the shine of his eyes. “We were going to have three dogs each, and horses.” He blinked thoughtfully, recalling the place they’d made up. “And a barn cat,” he added.
“Baby,” she said, stroking his hair. In her mind, his ranch sprang to life; she put it in the back yard of their new home, under the foothills of the Rockies, though it had its creative origins in frenetic [REDACTED], beneath high-tension wires and airplanes and ozone alerts. “Where was this ranch?” she asked.
“[REDACTED],” he said without hesitation. A massive Utopian landscape that neither boy had seen, a giant star on a map, full of astronauts and cowboys. “Me and Dick dreamed about it all the time. We invented it in our sleep.”
“Maybe that’s where Dick went,” Ann said. “Maybe that’s where his parents should look.”
“I told them that,” Cole said. “They said they would, but it’s a big place.” She wondered how her son was picturing his friend, what he saw when he imagined Dick—Dick no longer in [REDACTED], no longer anywhere in particular but everywhere, and nowhere, at once. He was, for Ann, fear itself, rumored, possible, unknown. Better for Cole to summon the [REDACTED] ranch and their future livestock.
“Mom, I think I know why Dick ran away.”
“You do?” She feared that he would utter her own suspicion, that it had been their departure that set events in motion. That in some skewed way she, Ann, was directly responsible for that boy’s sorrow, for the reverberating despair of everyone who knew him, including Cole himself, right here in his bed. She laid her head on his pillow, ready to be accused. “Why did he run away, sweetheart?” she asked.
“I think he didn’t want to turn twelve,” Cole said.
Ann waited, but Cole had finished. She said, “But it’ll still be his birthday.”
“I know.” Her son wasn’t going to explain the contradiction; Ann would simply have to accept it, and she did. “It already was his birthday,” he added.
He and Dick had thrown joint birthday parties—in Cole’s yard one year, in Dick’s the next—hands clasped together around a knife over a single layer cake, like a couple of newlyweds. Had Cole arrived at his insight concerning Dick because he shared the opinion about turning twelve, because he didn’t find life, anymore, all that worthwhile? Ann couldn’t bear to think so. She closed her eyes and hoped—it seemed a weak thing, hope, and it was all she had—with all her heart not. But even if he did, even if it were true, could she beg him not to feel the way he felt?
No. No more than he could beg her. 

