THE NIECE
By Margot Livesey

He had replaced five light bulbs that day, and by late afternoon he couldn’t help anticipating the soft ping of the element flying apart whenever he reached for a switch. The third time—the fixture on the landing—the thought zigzagged across his mind that these little explosions were a sign, like the two dogs he had come across in the autumn, greyhound and bulldog, locked together on the grassy slope of the local park. He had given them a wide berth; still, he’d felt responsible on the bus the next day when a man had turned puce and slid to the floor. By the fifth light, though, he had given up on superstition and was blaming [REDACTED] Electricity. Some irregularity in the current, some unexpected surge, was slaughtering the bulbs.
The Barrows were away, at a conference in Latvia, which was why the decorating was being done now, but they were the sort of people who kept spares—he could tell from their orderly supplies of toilet paper and condiments—just not in any place he could find. Meanwhile, he gradually emptied the upstairs rooms, slipping the bulbs from bedside lights and desk lamps. Next time he went to the shops, he’d pick up a pack and add it to his bill under “Miscellaneous.”
Later, of course, the little zaps made perfect sense. But when the doorbell rang Zeke set aside the wallpaper steamer without a shard of premonition. Often, if he was up a ladder, he didn’t answer the knocks and rings of late afternoon—after all, they were never for him—but now the pallor of the sky, the flashes of light and dark, the weariness of working alone all conspired to make even the prospect of rebuffing a double-glazing salesman, or a greasy-haired collector for Oxfam, a pleasure. Last Friday, in a similar mood, he’d found a chap on the doorstep, thin as a junkie, pretending to be blind. He had the dark glasses, the white cane, the fluttery stuff with the hands. “You’re a painter,” the man had said, sniffing slightly. Zeke had ended up giving him fifty pence.
“But how do you know he was a con man?” his mother had asked that night on the phone. “People compensate.”
“I was looking out of the window and I saw him in the street, checking the ‘A to Z.’ ”
“Barmy,” his mother said, but there was a note of admiration in her voice, as if a fake blind man might be closer to her ideal son than a conscientious decorator.
Now the door swung open and a woman, no collecting tin, no clipboard, filled his vision. He hadn’t replaced the bulb in the hall yet, and in the dim light her features took a few seconds to assemble. He made out abrupt dark eyebrows above a substantial nose and plump, glistening lips, as if the inside of her mouth had flowed alarmingly onto the outside.
For a moment, Zeke was baffled. Then he went through the steps he’d learned from the poster at the clinic. Eyes wide, a glimpse of teeth, corners of the mouth turning up rather than down: usually these indicated a smile that could, he knew, mean anger but more often meant friendliness. Yes, she was smiling, although not necessarily at him. Her expression had clearly been prepared in advance, but Zeke admired the way she held her face steady at the sight of him, and of his work clothes. His jeans and shirt were so paint-spattered as to be almost a separate entity.
“Good afternoon.” She stretched out her hand and, seeing his, white with Spackle, faltered, neither withdrawing nor completing the gesture.
“Hi,” he said, hating the single, stupid syllable. She was tall for a woman, his height save for the doorstep, and dimly familiar, though not as herself. As she began to speak, he realized who she reminded him of: the bust of Beethoven on his father’s piano. Something about the expansiveness of her features, the way her tawny hair sprang back from her forehead.
“I’m the niece,” she said.
Her breath streamed toward him, a chilly plume, carrying more words, perhaps an entire sentence, which Zeke lost as he blinked away Beethoven. “I’m the decorator,” he said. “The Barrows are away.”
“But they told you I would be here,” she said with no hint of a question.
She stooped to pick up the large black suitcases on either side of her, and as she straightened he saw that she was pregnant. She stepped past him—the word “pushed” came to mind—and set the cases, gently, at the foot of the stairs. “Where are you working?”
He nodded toward the living room. She stood in the empty doorway—the door was at the strippers—surveying the room. Under the influence of her attention, Zeke saw again what his work had revealed: the ragged plaster painted not a single color but in pale bands of blue and brown, gray and yellow, the work of some unknown artist. In the middle of the floor the furniture was piled up and draped in dust sheets, like some ungainly prehistoric animal.
“Groovy,” she said. “We should do a mural—hunting and fishing, golfing and shopping.”
“I don’t think your aunt and uncle . . .” Then he caught himself: humor. That had always been tricky for him. Even the question about the hen crossing the road could make him pause. “I told them it was a big job. You never know what you’ll find when you strip off the paper. And Emmanuel, the guy who helps me, did his back in.”
“How?” she said.
“What?”
“How”—she patted the small of her back—“did he bugger up his back?”
“Reaching for a corner. Snooker, not painting.” In the bare space, their voices took on burly undertones. Hers was deep, anyway. As for his, Zeke wasn’t sure. He had read that humans hear their own voices through the jaw, not the air; every time a tooth is lost or filled, the timbre changes.
“Aren’t they due back this week?” she said.
“The nineteenth, they told me.”
Finally she shrugged off her coat, revealing a dark-green dress. The heating was on full blast, not his bill, and the house was as snug as a tea cozy. She retreated to sling her coat over the banister and then came back into the room with that greedy, pushing motion. As she turned, he saw again, silhouetted against the window, her belly. Who would have expected the whey-faced Barrows to have a niece like this? And older than he’d thought, he saw now, as the light caught the little line like an exclamation mark between her eyebrows.
“Don’t let me stop you,” she said, her nose, her lavish mouth, bearing down, “working.”
A sentence appeared in Zeke’s head: I’d like to tie you to the bed. How did that get there, inside his brain, about this woman?
“I was taking a break,” he said. “Anyway.”
He was no longer certain that she was ugly, only that he wanted to keep looking to make sure. But in the empty room he didn’t dare. This must be why people had furniture: not just for comfort but, like clothing, for camouflage. And why interrogation and torture were traditionally carried out in sparsely furnished spaces.

“When I was fifteen,” she said, and her tone was such that he couldn’t tell if she was talking to him or to herself, “my parents let me paint my room. We were a family—this probably sounds absurd—who never painted anything. First I wrote on the wall the things I wanted to be rid of: hypocrisy, mother, father, brother. Then I slapped on the paint, deep purple.”
“Did it work?”
Her head swivelled in his direction, and he had the sense of being seen at last. “Not,” she exhaled, “entirely. But I did like the feeling of making my mark. Do you ever get the glums?”
“No,” he said. And then the word seemed to leap from his larynx: “Sometimes.” To his own stupefaction, he imagined telling her the whole deformed story, the one his mother wanted to wrap in euphemisms, like offal in newspaper, and chuck in the dustbin. “Why ‘brother’?” he asked.
“I have one.” Her eyebrows dashed together. “In [REDACTED], maybe.” She seized a wallpaper brush and fingered the gluey bristles. “Years ago, I was hitching near Oxford, and a polystyrene salesman picked me up. The back seat of his car was full of those nice white containers, all different sizes. It started to rain, bucketing down, the windscreen wipers going lickety-split, and he said, ‘Do you ever think of killing yourself?’ His voice was so casual, I was sure I’d misunderstood, like you just now. I said, ‘Sometimes.’ ”
Zeke blinked again rapidly.
“Then he asked if I’d read ‘Steppenwolf.’ I said yes, though to be honest I wasn’t sure. It’s one of those books that were in the ether for a while. I looked over at this porky, red-faced, middle-aged bloke and his eyes were brimming. ‘I have,’ he said. ‘Every day I think of it. There’s always the razor and the knife.’ ”
She set aside the brush and flicked a roll of lining paper. “Are you taking off the paper just to put it on again?”
The Barrows, her aunt and uncle, had asked that, too. He explained about the old houses of [REDACTED], how the walls were held up by wood-chip paper. When you removed it, the best way to get a smooth finish was to put on lining paper and paint over that.
“Cup of tea?” he suggested, and, cursing himself, backed out of the room. Once, maybe twice a year, he had something that resembled a conversation, something that wasn’t about fish fingers or the telly or who was effing whom. And, idiotically, he bolted. Blind rejection was one thing. To be seen, then dismissed, was quite another. He might hate his mother’s mealymouthed phrases—Oh, Zeke’s just under the weather—but the day, six years earlier, that she turned her shiny blue eyes upon him and said, “You’ll end up in the loony bin if you carry on like this,” he had felt as if a pickaxe were aimed at the very center of his forehead.
Afraid to return to the living room, he hovered beside the kettle. Give me another surge, he thought, winging his request to the head office. He heard a sound from the hall, one thud followed by another.
“Did I scare you?”
Seeing her stocking feet, he understood not only the noises he’d just heard but those that came most nights through his bedroom ceiling: one shoe, two shoes.
“Which side are you on?” he said.
“Roundheads or cavaliers? Arsenal or Chelsea? Flat earth or solar system?”
“Mr. or Mrs. Barrow.” He pushed a mug of tea toward her. “Whose niece are you?”
“Mr.’s—can’t you tell?” Her eyelids grew wide and her chin rose, as if defying him not to notice the similarity. “Maybe I could take Emmanuel’s place.”
Bewildered, Zeke stared at her feet, not broad like her hands but long and slender in dark-purple hose. Was this humor, too?
“He’s not around,” she said. She sounded so definite that for a moment Zeke wondered if she somehow knew Emmanuel. Then he remembered that he was the one who had told her about him, the snooker and the bad back. “Perhaps I could lend a hand.”
“You?”
She gave a hoot. “I’m not offering to spend twelve hours a day up a ladder, but some things are easier with two people, like folding sheets.”
I am, Zeke thought, profoundly boring, a notion not contradicted by her announcement that she was going to check out the sleeping arrangements. Heels striking the floor, she carried her tea upstairs.
Normally he quit at five, but today he kept pressing Spackle into even the smallest cracks until close to six-thirty. Then, in the face of an unbroken silence from above, he admitted defeat. He tidied his tools in the way that his old boss Ferdinand had taught him. The two of them had been united in their meticulous attitude toward objects and their hesitation toward people. “You know, they say the brain has pathways,” Ferdinand had said. “Mine are covered with sand.” Zeke washed his hands, and called the news of his departure, wanly, up the stairs.
“Wait.” There she was on the landing. “Are you coming tomorrow? When?” Her face was once again indistinguishable.
“I aim for eight,” he told her. “Shall I bring up your suitcases?”
“No.”
The word hit him with such force that he grabbed the banister. He was still wondering what he’d done wrong when she added, at more normal volume, “Thanks. I need the keys.” She swam down the stairs, stopping on the last one, hand outstretched. He should have guessed then, from the way her eyes fastened on his, that something was awry, that she wasn’t on good terms with her aunt and uncle or that Ms. F.—weren’t all fetuses female at first?—was a problematic guest, but the warmth of her breath, the lilt of her perfume, expunged rational thought. Helpless, he laid the keys in her palm.
“Will you be up to let me in?” he said.
“Up with the lark.” She made a flapping motion with one hand. “Up with the milkman.”
“Are you all right?” he found himself asking.
“There’s always the razor and the knife,” she said softly. Then—he pictured all the buses in [REDACTED] rising an inch into the air—she leaned forward and pressed her lips to his cheek.
The next morning, Zeke rang the bell, knocked, tried the knob. The door stayed resolutely shut, the windows adamantly blank. He even bent down and called, foolishly, through the letter box, “Hello, it’s me. Zeke.” By the end of five minutes, he was holding on to himself, like a kite on a gusty day. He fished around in his pockets, his bag, and was rewarded with an unmistakable vision of his mobile phone, lying on the floor beside his bed. As he walked to the corner, he counted the fag ends on the pavement, some crushed, some whole, to keep himself from floating away: seven, eight, eleven. Twice he had to stop and retrace his steps to make sure he hadn’t missed one. Look down, he thought, not up. In the forecourt of the underground station, he found a free phone and, trying not to think of all the hands, the mouths, that had touched it, he picked up the receiver and dialled the Barrows’ number. The answering machine clicked on with Mr. Barrow’s brief, nasal message. She’s popped out for a paper, he told himself, she’s taking a bath. Walking back, he forgot the cigarettes and placed his feet, carefully, in the middle of each paving stone.

At the house, nothing had changed. He knocked, rang, shouted again, before climbing in through the living-room window. He had opened it the day before while using the steamer and, in the excitement of her arrival, had neglected his usual security measures. Now the ease with which the sash slid up made him feel stricken; he had left her at the mercy of any passing lunatic or thief.
Inside, he began to tiptoe toward the hall, then, reconsidering, attempted his normal gait. “Hello. Anyone home?”
He turned things on: kettle, radio, lights. No flash and zap today. He made the obligatory cup of tea and set to work. But after ten minutes of sanding he couldn’t bear it. The possibility that she was gone bounded into his head and ricocheted around. And he didn’t even know her name. He laid the sandpaper aside and, wiping his powdery hands on his jeans, climbed the stairs.
He had reconnoitered the first day he had the house to himself—he always did, flitting through bedrooms, checking wardrobes and drawers, cupboards and desks. It wasn’t what Emmanuel thought—snooping for kinky underwear or helpful pills—but the way he coped with strange houses; he picked out a hiding place. Sometimes, when he felt particularly shaky, he even stored provisions there: a bottle of water, a packet of biscuits. Here, at the Barrows’, he’d chosen the pedestal desk in the study. With his knees drawn up, he fit almost perfectly into the dark U.
Now he moved from one light-bulb-less room to another. In the master bedroom, the tattered floral wallpaper made his teeth ache. As did the disorder that seemed, mysteriously, to have worsened since his last visit. The drawers of the dressing table were half-open and several of the photographs on top lay face down. In the study, next to the desk, the row of machines—computer, printer, fax, even a photocopier—winked at him with little red or green lights. Mrs. Barrow worked at home, she’d explained, editing textbooks. Last, their son—Sean’s? Seth’s?—old room. She had mentioned him at their first meeting, only to be cut off by her husband in a tone that suggested the boy was already halfway to hell in a handcart. Zeke knew that his mother had for several months reacted to his name in a similar fashion.
Had he ever been so glad to see a suitcase? The larger of the two lay open at the foot of the bed. Not meaning to snoop, he stared at the contents. Almost half the case was filled with small, multicolored boxes of the kind used for earrings and necklaces; the remainder was occupied by two camera cases, a portable CD player, a clock, and a pair of silver candlesticks. For a moment, Zeke was tempted to count the boxes, each so orderly and distinct. Then he stepped over to the bed and knelt to bury his face in the pillow. Here she was, and here.
The scrape of the front door hurled him to his feet. “Hello,” he called, starting down the stairs.
She was in the hall, levering off her boots, heel to toe. “I went to get us fried-egg sandwiches.” She flourished a paper bag.
“I broke in,” he offered.
“Brilliant,” she said, handing him the bag. In the kitchen he set out plates, salt and pepper, sheets of paper towel. He had had his usual bowl of cereal only an hour ago; but now, following her example, he ate ravenously. She was wearing a faded blue sweatshirt, the sleeves rolled up, the hem stretched tight. How far along was she, he wondered, trying to recall Emmanuel’s sister’s configuration at various stages. Six months, maybe seven. Watching her pepper the egg, he realized that he had dreamed about her the night before.
Only a fragment remained: she was winching a metal bucket, brimming with water, out of a well. But before he could tell her about it she was talking again, describing her stint as an office cleaner when she’d eaten a fried-egg sandwich every day. “We were meant to start at six. Instead we’d come in at eight-thirty, spray Lysol around, and sit down to our sannies. When the suits arrived at nine, they assumed we were taking a well-earned break after hours of work.” She licked her lips, first lower, then upper, in a glistening circle. “So what are we doing today? Putting up paper?”
He began to stammer. He was making good progress. Besides, her aunt and uncle were paying him a fair wage.
“I’m serious,” she said. “I need something to take my mind off things.”
At the time, he assumed a covert reference to Ms. F. Later, when he went back and scrutinized her every utterance, it became one of those mysterious manhole covers, briefly raised over the sewer of secrecy.
Before he could voice any further objections—the dust, the fumes—she had spotted a pair of overalls hanging on the back door, and the next thing he knew she had scrambled into them and was demonstrating how well they fit; her belly split the front like a chestnut its shell. “Come on,” she said. “I bet you’re paid by the job, not the hour.”
At first he was embarrassed telling a woman, older than him by perhaps a decade, what to do, but she turned out to be much more biddable than Emmanuel. As they finished the sanding, he on the ladder, she on foot, she lobbed questions in his direction, and despite her careless manner he sensed that she was, in fact, listening to his answers. Whereas the doctors, to a man and woman, as soon as he opened his mouth, had focussed on pencil sharpeners, radiators, doorknobs. They were paid—not enough, not by him—to barely feign attention, scribble a couple of notes, and, as quickly as possible, write a prescription that would propel him, thank God, out of their offices. But this woman, with her fierce brow, her chapped knuckles, for whatever reason, actually seemed interested.
“So,” she said, folding the sandpaper onto the sanding block, “is decorating the family business? Or your heart’s desire?”
“Neither.” He was longing to ask about her, so he offered himself up, a pound of apples, a fistful of bananas. “My father was a greengrocer in Brighton. Got up at four every day, except Sunday, to buy the fruit and veg. Then he worked until seven at night, hauling sacks of potatoes and chatting up housewives.”
“Did you live near the sea?” she asked.
“Not far. If I stood on my bed on tiptoe, there was a tiny triangle of water.” He had done this precisely once, dismayed at what the maneuver had revealed. Now he climbed down the ladder, moved it four feet, climbed back up, and started on the next stretch of cornice.
“I used to think,” she said, “that life would make sense if I could see the sea every day.”
“Not for me. A street makes sense, a house makes sense, but the sea just goes on and on: wave, wave, wave. I couldn’t wait to get away. We were ten when we moved.” Even the absent-minded doctors had caught these sorts of slips. “Do you see yourself as two people?” a man with a wedge-shaped head had asked, gleefully. Barely one, he had thought but not said. She tapped her sandpaper and said nothing.

In [REDACTED], Highbury, his father had a new shop, bigger and busier. “I used to help, evenings, Saturdays. Lovely tomatoes. Nice, juicy oranges. Then one day one of our regulars, Mrs. Oma, said, ‘When you’re the boss,’ and suddenly I understood why my father was always pounding away at me about what to order, how to price stuff. I started to pay attention in school, do my homework. It drove him mad. ‘Do you want to be a dreamer all your life,’ he used to say, ‘head stuck in a book?’ ”
“Careful,” she said.
Beneath his savage sanding the ladder swayed like a sapling in the wind. He couldn’t tell the story without jumping back into that old, hopeless arena. Over fresh sandpaper, he admitted that he had studied accounting at university. “I wanted to do anthropology—I’d read a book about the rain-forest tribes of Papua, New Guinea—but I didn’t have the nerve. I needed to know that I was heading toward a job.”
She didn’t ask the obvious question, which, as they began to measure and cut the lining paper, enabled him to answer it. The day after his final exams, he couldn’t leave the house.
“The people I shared with had all gone away, and I’d been looking forward to having the place to myself. But as soon as I stepped outside I worried that I’d left the gas on or the iron or the lights or I hadn’t locked the door or I hadn’t locked the window or I hadn’t flushed the toilet or the cat’s water bowl was empty or my mother was trying to phone. It didn’t matter how often I checked, it didn’t matter if I wrote down that I’d checked, I’d reach the street and have to go back. Remember in ‘Gulliver’s Travels’ when the Lilliputians tie him down? It was like that. Hundreds of strands of anxiety tugging me back. Soon it was easier not to try to get away.”
He slid the scissors through the paper, enjoying the smooth mutter of the blades. “When I got better, I knew I couldn’t be an accountant. I liked numbers, but I couldn’t cope with the people on the other end of them. One of our neighbors did odd jobs, so I started helping him.” A strip of paper released from the roll curled back on itself and fell to the floor; he began on the next. “Ferdinand is—” He stopped, searching for the word that would embody his friend, then gave up. “I felt [REDACTED] with him, and, gradually, he wanted to retire, so I took over the business.”

“Your dad must have gone nuts.”
A hot, dry wind blew through the room. Zeke dropped the scissors. “Break,” he said.
He started to ask questions, the same ones she’d asked him—where she grew up, what her mum and dad did; after all these hours it seemed too late to ask her name. “You know,” she said, “when you reach a certain age people don’t ask what your parents do. They ask what you do.”
But, without waiting, she went on. “My mother, after years as a bored housewife, runs a glorified junk shop. She invents amazing provenances for her goods: this hot-water bottle warmed the feet of Marie Antoinette; Dr. Johnson dipped his pen in this very inkwell. My father used to be a schoolteacher. Now he’s a chancer. He’ll bet on anything: horses, dogs, which of his children will go to rack and ruin first. He’s the kind of person who tells everyone else in the cinema to shut up and then chats away for the rest of the film. I take after both of them.”
“Do you mean that?” Zeke said.
She stopped and looked at him, eyes flickering. “Yes and no. You know how it is. You make every effort not to be like your parents and then you catch yourself tying your shoelaces in exactly the fussy way that your mother does. Or, even worse, doing something you don’t really want to do—leaving a huge tip after a bad meal—just to be different from them.”
She didn’t mention Ms. F., nor did he. Every so often, Zeke would catch himself wondering whether she really existed. Then he would turn around—or her mother would—and there she was.
At lunchtime, she opened a tin of tomato soup and he made cheese sandwiches. They worked on through the darkening afternoon. Oughtn’t she to take a rest? he asked. They could finish the lining paper tomorrow. But she shrugged off the suggestion. The street lights came on, buzzy amber splodges, and in the houses opposite curtains were drawn. He bungled the last piece of paper, an awkward corner, then bungled it again. “If at first you don’t succeed,” she chanted from the foot of the ladder, “try, try, and try again. That was my English teacher’s favorite saying: Robert the Bruce and his stupid spider.”
Two years ago, even one, he might have presumed himself the spider, vermin to be trampled underfoot; today he recognized encouragement. He mounted the ladder once again and, while she described the Scottish king, hiding in a cave, drawing inspiration from the arachnid’s repeated efforts to anchor its web, he smoothed the top of the paper into place and, slowly descending, pressed the seams together.
Now what? he thought, glancing around the neatly papered room. Dismissal?
“Can you make a fire,” she said, “while I forage?”
“A fire?” He saw himself soaking the dust sheets with petrol, the whoompf of flame engulfing the mute furniture. But then she pointed at the fireplace, the grate messy with cinders. Investigation proved that the Barrows had supplies. He rolled newspapers, added kindling, fire lighter, and coal, tasks he hadn’t performed since leaving drafty Brighton. Meanwhile, from the kitchen came various sounds, some recognizable, some not. When he went in, she was at the stove, stirring a saucepan. “Frozen lasagna,” she announced. “Tinned spinach, fresh carrots. There’s beer in the cupboard under the stairs.”
“Thanks. I think I’ll have some Ribena.”
“Don’t you drink?”
“Not often. It makes me . . .” He hesitated between “weird” and “stupid” and eventually chose the latter.
“Not so stupid you don’t know it.” She reached for a glass, and he saw the froth of beer. Stop, he wanted to say. Ms. F. doesn’t deserve to start life with a hangover. But before he could think of a polite way, or indeed any way, to voice his concern she was shouting, “Fuck, fuck.”
He watched in amazement as she grabbed the saucepan and banged it against the stove, once, twice. Carrots flew.
And then he was in the hall. He had seen her wet lips stretched wide, her eyes starting out of her head, not gestures that had appeared on the poster but, combined with the shouting, fairly unequivocal. In the living room he bent to tend the fire, fighting the desire to climb out of the window and never come back. The first flare of the kindling had died down and the coals were glowing dully when he heard her footsteps.
“Sorry. I got a little carried away.”
He could feel her standing behind him. Don’t touch me, he thought. Do.

“I take my cooking seriously,” she said. “Even if it is just tins. What makes you angry?”
You drinking beer, Emmanuel being a wanker, my life. Using the tongs, he moved a knob of coal an inch to the right, an inch to the left.
“If I promise to be quiet, will you come back and keep me company?”
She walked away, not waiting for an answer, and he thought of all the tiny motions—the vertebrae one after another sliding against each other, the hip joints swivelling in their sockets, the tarsals and metatarsals flexing and straightening—that make up departure. Yet the most mysterious motion, the one that couldn’t be named or diagrammed, was what spilled a mood into a room. How he knew, with absolute certainty, that she wasn’t taking his answer for granted, but simply leaving him alone to figure it out.
As he sat back down at the kitchen table, she was peering into the oven. “Is there a reason,” she said, “for upstairs to be plunged in Stygian gloom?”
He told her about the five light bulbs of the day before. “Interesting.” She turned, cheeks flushed from anger or the oven, to face him. “I’m [REDACTED] with appliances, usually. But I can’t wear a watch for more than a day or two before it goes haywire. Apparently, I make my own electricity.”
They ate off a card table in front of the fire in the freshly papered room. She had found candles in the cutlery drawer, and in their light the ladder cast a hangman’s shadow. They talked about computers, and whether a person could ever really disappear, and if life was better in Papua, New Guinea. She told a story about her grandfather, who had fought in the First World War. Then, at last, she spoke about herself, but almost, Zeke noticed, as if she were talking about another person. Well, that was something he understood. He often felt as if the events in his life, the things people claimed he’d said and done, were really part of a stranger’s story. His biology teacher at school had explained that the cells in the body are replaced every seven years. No wonder we don’t always feel like our old selves.
“Once, years ago, I had a friend. She was the opposite of me: tiny, neat, ferociously ironic. We shared an office at my first real job, and three or four nights a week we’d go out for a drink after work. I couldn’t get enough of her company.”
He watched her lips, her eyes, her cheeks, the muscles of her throat and her forehead, and fewer and fewer of her words reached him. But when her story was done, the candles guttering, the fire dying, her face wore an expression that he understood. He took her hand. “You did what you could,” he said, and squeezed her palm against his own. The effort of consolation made him bold.
Her face changed inexplicably, the light in her eyes leaping and fading. Had he done something wrong? Then he understood. With his free hand, he snuffed the flames.
She rose to her feet, the whole magnificent swell of her, pulled him to his feet, and led him up the stairs. “Help me,” she said, presenting the overalls. Soon she was naked, ample and unabashed. Beside her Zeke felt pallid, sticklike. Can this be happening? he thought. Then she was pulling back the covers, and he was lost. Ms. F., fully acknowledged, never mentioned, lay between them.
Hours, days, weeks later she said, “I have to tell you something.” For a moment she was silent, and he pictured, in the darkness, her eyebrows drawing together. “I’m no more Mr. Barrow’s niece than I am a cavalier.” She made a little rasping sound. “Actually, I’ve never laid eyes on either of the Barrows. A friend told me that the house was empty and I needed somewhere to go.”
Even as she spoke, he was counting their contiguous places—thighs, hips, elbows, shoulders, floating ribs, biceps, calves—and wherever they touched he felt the slight tingling of her electricity.
“It’s not fair,” he had told his mother one day after school. “I can’t lie like the other boys.”
“Everyone lies,” she had said. “You’re just a slow learner.”
Now he remembered how her face had changed when he asked whose niece she was.
“I knew that,” he said slowly.
“And don’t you wonder who I am? What I’m doing here? You saw what was in my suitcase, didn’t you?”
He searched high and low, the spiral of his right ear, the knotted place behind the left temple, the hollow where his skull met his spine, the airy lattice inside his forehead, but he couldn’t find a trace of wondering. The Barrows had insurance. Let her take whatever she needed for herself, and for Ms. F. What he did find, regrettable but obdurate, was his old fear of the unfamiliar.
“I have to go home,” he said. “I’m sorry. It’s not you. I just can’t handle strange houses.”
She touched his cheek.
The next morning, Zeke knocked only once before setting aside the fried-egg sandwiches—he’d asked for brown bread in an effort to offset last night’s beer—and sliding the blade of his penknife under the snib of the side window. He left the bag of sandwiches on the kitchen table and climbed the stairs, hoping to find her still in bed, hoping to slip in beside her and bring as many of his current cells as possible into proximity with hers. And this time, he thought, however stupid, however embarrassing, he would ask her name.
The bed was unmade, empty and cold to the touch, the suitcases gone. At the foot of the bed the rug was rolled up and, spread-eagle on the bare wooden boards, lay the overalls, neatly buttoned, arms and legs wide, like an empty person. Only when Zeke tried to pick them up did he discover the three-inch nails that skewered the collar, pinned the cuffs and ankles to the floor. 

