WES AMERIGO’S GIANT FEAR
By David Schickler

Wes awoke suddenly in his bed. He did not hurt anywhere or need water. His wife, [REDACTED], sighed and twitched beside him, as she had for sixteen years. He looked out the window and saw snow mounting on his lawn. The clock glowed midnight, an hour Wes rarely saw. Somehow he felt an emergency at hand. An unfamiliar dread filled his mind and lungs, a feeling that he hadn’t awoken by accident but been summoned like a minuteman to a war just taking shape.
He stared at his wife, at the blades of her shoulders, the naked ladder of her spine. She slept without clothes always, a beautiful, strange accomplice. He wished, for the millionth time in their marriage, that she were a mystical being, that she could sense his concerns even in sleep and rise to solve them. But her head stayed down and facing away from him on the pillow.
Wes got up. He was wearing only boxer shorts, but he didn’t reach for his robe. He didn’t want a robe, or warm milk. He wanted to dispose of his dread.
He walked out to the landing and gazed down at the living room. Lady Macbeth, his younger daughter’s Irish wolfhound, was sprawled before the fireplace, in which some embers still glowed. Over the mantel hung a painting composed of black swirls, which [REDACTED] had bought in [REDACTED] during their honeymoon. The dog, the fire, and the art looked, as they always did to Wes, eerie and good together. They combined to form some meaning in Wes’s life, though he couldn’t have said what that meaning was. But as the wolfhound slept and the embers winked, the dread inside Wes grew. He went to check on his children.
They were alive, of course, and asleep in their beds. Michael, fourteen, lay with his fists clenched at his sides, his body fighting puberty even in sleep. Michael had acne, a knife collection, and a love of brutal honesty. His archenemy, Anna, was twelve. Posters of Alvin Ailey covered the walls of her room, and her modern-dance teacher had told Wes that his daughter’s body could perform the incredible. The last room upstairs belonged to Pill, who was seven and very small, and who loved to pray. Pill had a more dignified name on her birth certificate, but everyone had more or less forgotten it. It wasn’t clear to whom Pill prayed, because she never addressed any gods by name, and Wes and [REDACTED] weren’t religious. But they often found their daughter kneeling in some corner, with her eyes closed. When asked about her prayers, Pill would laugh, but her laugh was light, and [REDACTED] knew enough not to try to dissect it.
Wes worried more. He feared that Pill would become a nun. In fact, Wes had a whole category of fears reserved for his family, and as he stood shivering in the hallway, he reviewed them. He feared that Michael would stab himself or others. He feared that Anna would move to [REDACTED] and become a talented, emaciated lesbian. Chiefly, though, Wes feared the collapse of his and [REDACTED]’s catering business, which was on the brink of bankruptcy. Just last month, Wes had been forced to take out a third mortgage on the house, and financial woes circled in his skull every day like sharp-winged black dragons.
Still, Wes’s dread this night somehow surpassed these anxieties. His fear wasn’t limited to one child, one house. It was a vast, treacherous feeling, the kind of fear that tugs like a tar pit at one man’s heart yet threatens to suck down the whole human race. A therapist might’ve diagnosed Wes as depressed. A cleric might’ve guessed that he lacked faith in God and humanity. But, standing half naked in his home, Wes didn’t call on outside forces for help. He put on a T-shirt and woke his family.
"Is the house on fire?” Michael asked. “Did someone croak?”
Anna yawned. “Who croaked?”
Wes had assembled his wife and children in the living room. He fed logs into the hearth to re-start the fire. Lady Macbeth paced around the room, confused and alert. [REDACTED] sat on the couch in her bulky white bathrobe. Pill sat on [REDACTED]’s lap. Michael and Anna were on the floor. It was twelve-thirty.
Wes faced his family. “Something’s wrong,” he announced. “Something’s missing.”
“Money?” Michael asked. “Stock options? The family nest egg?”
On several occasions lately, Michael had overheard Wes on the phone with Cecil Harkness, the mortgage-and-loan officer for Second Mountain Mutual Bank. Cecil had also been [REDACTED]’s sweetheart back at Second Mountain High School. He’d been a senior when Wes and [REDACTED] were sophomores.
“Did someone break in?” Michael sounded hopeful. “Is there a perp?”
Wes shook his head.
“Oh, God,” [REDACTED] whispered. “The van?”
The family van, an enormous Chevy with a refrigerated rear, was Wes and [REDACTED]’s livelihood. That night, it held eight thousand dollars’ worth of sirloin tips and Baked Alaska for the Nelson retirement party, the next afternoon. But Wes had bolted the garage door at ten, and Lady Macbeth would howl Armageddon if she heard it unbolt.
“No,” Wes said. “What I mean is, I feel funny.”
“Are you shrooming?” Michael asked.
Anna tugged her mother’s foot. “What’s shrooming?”
“Shroom.” Pill made engine noises. “Shroom, shroom.”
“I feel—” Wes began, then stopped. The firewood crackled.
Pill giggled.
Wes cleared his throat. “I feel afraid.”
[REDACTED] wrapped a quilt around herself and Pill. She understood that there was no burglar or gas leak in the house. In the face of such threats, her husband moved like the chef he was. His hands held tools and he made decisions. It was emotions, [REDACTED] knew, that challenged Wes, that made him stammer.
“What are you afraid of?” Anna asked. “Did you have a nightmare?”
“Anna has nightmares,” Michael said.
“Shut up,” Anna said.
“About Mr. Pants,” Michael said.
“Shut up.”
“Mr. Pants, Mr. Pants.”
Anna elbowed Michael’s ribs. He punched her thigh.
“Kids,” [REDACTED] warned.
It was common knowledge that Anna’s dreams were haunted by a disembodied pair of trousers she called Mr. Pants. She had been traumatized by a scene in “Bedknobs and Broomsticks” where clothes flew around, tormenting the children. Ever since then, Mr. Pants had lurked in her subconscious, chasing her, threatening to wrap his legs around her. In her waking life, Anna was suspicious of clothing. Restrictive adult gear like bras and neckties petrified her.
“Are you having a breakdown?” Michael asked.
Lady Macbeth offered Wes her paw. He took it, staring at the tuft of red fur between her toes, an anomaly in her otherwise black coat. He remembered some advice of his mother’s. In a crisis, she’d said, remind yourself of what is true.
“I’m thirty-nine,” Wes said, still holding the dog’s paw. “I’m a chef. I have a wife and three children and a dog. We live on Second Mountain in the Adirondacks.”
[REDACTED] and the children waited.
“My parents are dead. The earth revolves around the sun.”
“Wes,” [REDACTED] said.
“Two plus two is four. We had meat loaf for dinner. I’ve never been to [REDACTED].”

“Wes, for God’s sake.”
Wes knew how he sounded, but he went on, blurting out the truth, about baseball, potatoes au gratin, the aurora borealis, searching for the one thing that would quell his anxiety.
Anna whimpered, “Stop it, Daddy.”
Michael said, “Paging Carl Jung.”
Lady Macbeth began yowling.
It was only when Wes’s voice rose to a brimstone roar that Pill crawled from her mother’s lap and climbed onto Lady Macbeth’s back. The dog wasn’t surprised, for she loved Pill as a horse loves its master. Pill was so small that Lady Macbeth had no trouble carrying her, and the girl often straddled the wolfhound’s back, riding around the house or the neighborhood.
Tonight, though, Pill boosted herself onto the dog’s back and stood at her full height, eye to eye with Wes. She placed two fingers over her father’s mouth, quieting his tirade.
“Don’t worry,” she said.
The next night, a Thursday, it happened again. Wes bolted awake at midnight, a chill under his skin.
“Stress,” [REDACTED] whispered. “Work-induced.”
But the Nelson party had gone all right. And two hundred swordfish steaks for the Harkness-Ives wedding reception would arrive in the morning from Hyannis.
“Insomnia.” [REDACTED] scratched her husband’s chest, which always made him sleepy.
Wes had announced the night before that something was missing, but now he felt the missing thing coming, rushing toward him.
“Jesus Christ,” Michael said, yawning.
“Don’t swear,” [REDACTED] said.
“Jesus Christmas,” Michael said. He and Anna were on the couch, on opposite sides of a Scrabble board.
It was one-thirty. Wes had once again gathered his family. [REDACTED] was curled in the BarcaLounger, reading “Wuthering Heights.” She’d selected something charged, something creepy, because it fit the mood that her husband had created in the house. She watched him at the kitchen counter, chopping chocolate, making truffle cakes for the Harkness-Ives reception.
Michael arranged letters on the Scrabble board. Anna read them.
“ ‘Chubber’?” Anna said.
“It’s British,” Michael said, “like bloke. It means a fat guy. I get twenty points.”
Anna frowned. “If ‘chubber’ is a word, use it in a sentence.”
Michael said, “That bloke is a chubber.”
“Mom!” Anna said.
“Enough.” [REDACTED] snapped her book shut. “That’s enough from both of you.” Tonight, [REDACTED] was as edgy as her husband. She’d fielded three separate calls that day from Cecil Harkness. Cecil’s eldest child, Tymalyn, would be the bride at the reception the Amerigos were catering that Saturday night, and for the past month Cecil had been calling [REDACTED] at least once a week to tweak the menu and flirt like a monarch.
“The cocktail sauce,” Cecil had said that morning, “should have just a whisper of horseradish, Moxie.”
Moxie had been his nickname for [REDACTED] when they’d dated, twenty-one years ago.
“Uh-huh,” [REDACTED] had said.
“Mind you, just a suggestion, Moxie. Just a dalliance. My JuJu’s stomach can’t handle anything wild.”
[REDACTED] had closed her eyes, pictured Cecil’s wife, Juliana Harkness, who ran marathons, held charity balls.
“We won’t serve anything wild,” [REDACTED] had promised.
She stared now at the cover of “Wuthering Heights.” She was thirty-eight, she’d never been on a windy moor, and two of her children were throwing Scrabble tiles at each other. The third was riding a giant wolfhound into the kitchen.
Pill steered Lady Macbeth up to Wes. “Lady wants a taste,” she said.
Wes dolloped some truffle on the dog’s nose. Lady Macbeth licked half of it off. Pill dipped her thumb in the rest and put the thumb in her mouth.
“That’s unsanitary,” Wes said.
Pill squinted. “This needs Sheeno sauce.”
According to Pill, all food tasted best when drenched in maraschino-cherry juice, which Wes kept in a vat in the pantry.
“Duly noted,” Wes said, but he frowned. His daughter always looked too serious, with her rigid black bangs and skin like a winter moon. Her eyes, black as her hair, made Wes nervous. They focussed too intently on people.
“Don’t worry,” Pill said. “Lady and I will make something tomorrow.”
Wes petted Pill’s hair. At least, he thought, she’s wearing Snoopy pajamas, as a seven-year-old should.
On Friday night, [REDACTED] made love to her husband. She worked her limbs around his body like a spell. When he dropped into sleep, she was sure he’d stay there till morning and wake relaxed and ready for the reception.
Wes dreamed of lightning. The Amerigos’ house, built near the rocky pinnacle of Second Mountain, suffered the whims of the sky, and Wes had recurring nightmares of tornadoes tearing his home to pieces. There was no carnage in his vision tonight, though. Some spectral lightning did strike his house, but instead of consuming his family and their rooms, it suffused the house with a glow so tangible that Wes wondered whether, if he opened his mouth, some of the light might land and melt on his tongue. He followed the glow to its blinding epicenter: his kitchen.
Wes woke up shaking. It was two in the morning. “Come on,” he told [REDACTED].
In the kitchen, they found Pill kneeling on Lady Macbeth’s back, kneading dough on the counter. The girl and the dog were covered with so much flour that when they moved squalls of powder rose. All the baking pans and cake molds were stacked across the counter and the floor, each filled with pale, uncooked dough.
“Pill?” Wes said. “Honey?”
The little girl spread her arms like a hostess. “Look,” she said. “See.”
“I see a mess,” [REDACTED] said.
Flour lay in drifts on every surface. [REDACTED] and salt crystals glittered in Pill’s hair. Spices—curry and cloves and who knew what else—were gathered in piles.
“Bread?” Wes said. “You’re making bread?”
Pill shook her head.
[REDACTED] knelt, poked at the trays. “It looks like bread.”
Anna and Michael appeared in the doorway.
Michael raised his eyebrows. “Did something explode?”
Anna prodded a tray with her foot. “What’s all this food for?”
“Eating,” Pill said.
“There’s forty pans here,” Anna announced. “Pill used forty pans.”
“[REDACTED],” Wes said, “please take Michael and Anna into the other room.”
Michael scowled, narrowed his eyes. “Is Pill dead meat?”
“What is that stuff?” Anna said.
[REDACTED] scuttled her older children out as Wes plucked Pill off Lady Macbeth. He sat at the table, his daughter on his lap.
“Send Lady out, please,” he said.
Pill nodded, and the wolfhound vanished.
“So.” Wes felt the queer tingle in his limbs that always came when he held Pill. It was a current that lashed out at a different target in Wes each time, sharpening his vision, untangling his thoughts about work or money. He never mentioned this phenomenon to Pill, or even [REDACTED], because while it thrilled him, it also frightened him. When Pill played with other children, Wes felt relieved not to have sired a hermit. But he watched her, fearing the day that some neighbor would sound the alarm. Amerigo’s daughter touched my kid. Pill Amerigo zapped my kid.
“Pill,” Wes said, “who’s all this food for? Why’d you make it?”
Pill was perched lightly on Wes’s thigh, like a bird. She blinked at her father.
“Daddy’s afraid.”
Wes stroked her hair. “What am I afraid of?” he whispered in her ear.

Pill giggled. “Fraidy cat.”
The tingling sensation had chosen Wes’s nose tonight. An ambush of smells came to him: wolfhound hair, Pill’s honey shampoo, Freon from the icebox, oregano, ginger. These should have been mundane scents to Wes, the stuff of his days, but now they powered through him the way they might through a blind and deaf person. He gripped Pill’s floured hand.
“What’re you doing?” he demanded. “What’s happening?”
Pill didn’t giggle now. She squeezed Wes’s hand. “You’ll see,” she said.
When the Amerigos catered at the Second Mountain Party Lodge, Wes cooked and [REDACTED], Michael, and Anna served. Wes counted on this arrangement to charm up repeat business for the family. Women smiled at Michael as he poured Chardonnay, sullen and cute in his tuxedo. A single wink from a man would fluster Anna enough that she’d drop croissants and sprint for the bathroom. Pill was too small to carry trays, so she stayed in the kitchen. For a year or two, Wes had given her finishing duties—sprinkling parsley on potatoes, flaking Heath bars over ice cream. Then, one evening when Pill was six, a drunken guest had blundered into the kitchen, shouting that his wife had puked up her clams casino and where was the goddam chef. Wes was out in the van, so the first person the drunkard saw was Pill. He bent his florid face to hers.
“Who makes the clams?” bellowed the man. “Who makes the clams?”
Pill was paralyzed by the man’s noise, the beating blue vein in his temple. He snorted and stamped at her until a friend came in and yanked him back to the party. After that night, Pill had announced that her job was family security, and at all functions thereafter she rode Lady Macbeth around the kitchen’s perimeter. Anyone who barged in met a frowning wolfhound and her black-eyed jockey and usually barged right back out. If the person needed coaxing, Pill started shouting “Who makes the clams?,” which she’d adopted as her battle cry.
The Harkness-Ives reception was a do-or-die night for Wes’s business. Both families were wealthy, and the guest list featured the plumpest wallets on Second Mountain. Plus, it was February, the time when all May-to-October brides- and grooms-to-be were choosing their caterers. Those couples would dine on Wes’s Swordfish Cilantro tonight, and if they weren’t pleased—if Wes didn’t lock up at least twenty gigs for the summer—then Amerigo Catering would be insolvent by tax time.
“Where are Pill and Lady?” [REDACTED] asked. She was in the Party Lodge kitchen, fixing Anna’s hem, cleaning lint off Michael’s lapels. On catering nights, Pill wore black dungarees and a black T-shirt, like a concert roadie.
“Van,” Anna said.
Wes blew in from the pantry, where he’d been shelling a thousand shrimp. “Tables watered, Anna?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Rolled and buttered, Michael?”
“Roger. Wilco.”
The double doors from the dining room flapped open. Cecil and Juliana Harkness swept into the kitchen like Kennedys, all smiles and tailored dark raiments.
[REDACTED] stared at Juliana’s fingertips, which looked exquisitely, almost surgically, lacquered. Wes tried to smile at Cecil, the boy wonder of Second Mountain High, 1981. Back then, Cecil had won prizes in both oratory and the long jump. Now he and JuJu funded Eritrean soccer camps.
“We’re the first to arrive from the church.” Cecil took a deep breath, put his hand to his chest, as if crucial things were happening inside him. “Wes. Moxie. Our Tym has become a wife.”
“What’s Moxie?” Anna asked.
Juliana asked if everything was in order.
“Absolutely,” Wes assured her. “You’re in for a feast.”
Michael tapped Cecil’s shoulder. “Sir? In yesteryear, didn’t you and my mom make the beast with two backs?”
Wes’s face crumpled. [REDACTED] turned scarlet. Cecil crossed his meaty forearms.
“Well,” Juliana said. She bit back a laugh.
“Michael Amerigo.” [REDACTED] pinched her son’s ear, tugged him toward the pantry.
“It was just a question,” Michael said, grimacing. “A Shakespearean question.”
Juliana smiled softly at Wes. She touched his sleeve, rolled her eyes. “Children,” she said sympathetically.
When Wes eventually went to check on Pill, he found her sitting in the van. She had one arm around Lady Macbeth and one around the maraschino-juice vat, which Wes didn’t remember packing.
“Here you are,” he said. “Come on, honey. Time to cook the steaks.”
“The steaks are finished.” Pill pointed at the fridge bin. “Lady and I did finishing duty.”
Lady Macbeth smiled at Wes, red ooze dripping from her teeth.
“Look,” Pill commanded.
Wes frowned, opened the bin. Icy smoke billowed. Inside, two hundred swordfish steaks and two hundred truffle cakes were drowned in sweet, sticky blood.
“They needed Sheeno sauce,” Pill said.
“Oh, God.” Wes grabbed a steak, rubbed it desperately with his thumbs. Even when the juice drained off, the fish was stained deep red.
“It was Lady’s idea,” Pill said. The wolfhound barked.
“Oh, my God.” Wes dropped the swordfish, rescued a truffle, still afloat in its foil dinghy. “Pill.” He turned on his daughter. His jaws locked. “Pill. Why did— Honey, Jesus. These dinners cost thousands. They’re ruined. I’m ruined.”
“Lady and I shared a truffle, Daddy. It was good.”
Wes knelt down opposite his daughter. Her face looked as calm as it had the day she’d come out of [REDACTED], the day the doctor slapped her and the sound Pill made was more a laugh than a cry. Now she had cherry stains on her mouth and white truffle-cake icing on her black T-shirt.
“I can’t believe this.” Wes flopped down onto the floor of the van, his head in his hands. He took deep breaths. The dread in his heart leaped, flipped, stuck a landing. “Damn it. God damn it, Pill.”
Pill crawled into her father’s lap. “Don’t worry.”
Wes felt action in his jaw again. He clenched and unclenched his fists. “Not everyone likes Sheeno sauce, Pill.”
“I like it,” Pill explained.
“What you did was wrong. Now I’ve got nothing to feed those people.”
Pill giggled. “Yes, you do. Look.”
The van was the size of a milk truck. Shelves lined both walls, and Pill and Wes sat in the aisle in the center. The shelves were deep enough to hold multiple trays. Pill was pointing at the middle tier of shelves, which Wes hadn’t filled for this occasion.
“There’s nothing up there, Pill.”
Pill stamped her foot. “Look, look, look.”
Wes sighed, got up, looked.
“See,” Pill said.
The shelves were filled with the forty pans Pill had prepared the night before.
“How’d these get here?” Wes said.
“Cook them,” Pill said. “Serve them.”
Wes snorted. “As an entrée? Bread?”
Pill took her father’s hand. “Serve them, Daddy.”
Without warning, Wes felt a new voltage in his mind, a switch in his instincts. It was no lobotomy of reason. He just accepted the fact that Pill had coördinated his doom. He shrugged, blinked, a man with no options. He looked at the pans before him. Well, now, he thought.
“This is crazy,” [REDACTED] said twenty minutes later in the Lodge kitchen. Wes was loading the pans Pill had prepared into ovens, turning dials. Michael and Anna peeked in from the pantry, while Pill, on Lady Macbeth, stood at Wes’s side.

“Make the ovens all the way hot,” Pill told her father. “Like a trillion degrees.”
[REDACTED] gripped Wes’s arm. “We can wash the steaks.”
“They’re ruined, [REDACTED].” Wes shut the oven doors. He looked at his impossible daughter on her impossible dog.
“Wes.” [REDACTED] used her careful voice. “We are not doing this. Those people out there—”
“I’m sorry, Moxie.” Wes set his teeth, watched the pans through the ovens’ glass windows. “But if this can keep a certain someone from repossessing my home and my wife—”
“No one’s repossessing me.”
“Are you sure?”
[REDACTED] crossed her arms. Wes wiped his sweating brow.
In the pantry doorway, Anna was crying. “What’s happening?”
Michael put his arm around her shoulders, squeezed. “Pill is dissolving our family unit.”
“Holy mackerel.” Wes was still staring through the oven windows. He grabbed his wife’s elbow. “[REDACTED]. Look.”
Sitting at the head table in the dining room, Tymalyn Ives, née Harkness, was a high-strung eighteen-year-old bride. She blamed this on her parents, who’d given her a name with a tomboy diminutive. When Tym was a girl, kids had teased her about her name, and the teasing had plagued her all through high school. By the summer after senior year, this abuse had lowered her self-esteem, which had caused her to drink too many Mickey’s Big Mouths one night last July, which resulted in a D.W.I. conviction, which made Tym cry and cling to her boyfriend, Jonathan Ives, which caused her to get pregnant, which caused her to get married. To make matters worse, the Iveses, who were Episcopalian, were unhappy with Tym’s choice of Bobby Monkey’s House of Funky as the disk jockey. Plus, Tym had a pimple on her chin and a twenty-four-hour crush on Kyle from Downstate, Jonathan’s best man, and all Tym wanted now, the only thing that could save her wedding, was the arrival of the main course, her absolutely favorite food: swordfish.
“Jonathan.” Tym grabbed her husband’s wrist. “Jonny. What is that?”
“What’s what?”
“That. On that plate. On all the plates.”
The P.A. system crackled. “Folks,” the d.j. said. “I, Bobby Monkey, will now lead you in prayer.” He whinnied like a drug addict. His real last name was Monkieski.
“It looks like bread. Muffins.” Jonathan massaged his wife’s knee under the table. “I’m feeling very matrimonial,” he whispered.
“We already had bread,” Tym said. “And shrimp.” Her eyes followed the trays that [REDACTED], Michael, and Anna were carrying to each table.
“Yum, yum, yum,” Bobby Monkey chanted, “munch, munch, munch. Thank you for the Cap’n Crunch.”
Jonathan informed his wife that their honeymoon suite had a mammoth water bed.
“Jonny, shut up, shut up. Something’s wrong here. Something’s fucked up.”
Pill’s food did look like bread. It had risen in whatever container held it, fluffing and browning, and none of it had scorched. Despite its consistent color and texture, each batch was different. Some pillowed out of their containers like clouds. Others had sculpted themselves into the shapes of temples or mountains or even eagles, lions, and whales. [REDACTED], Michael, and Anna carved these shapes, set a piece before each guest.
The guests laughed. They sensed a ruse, looked to the head table. But the bride had tears in her eyes, and, as the hall quieted, she let out a shriek. Everyone froze. In the kitchen, Wes shivered.
Over and out, he thought.
Cecil Harkness stood, hands on hips. “Amerigo!” he bellowed. “Get out here!”
Wes peeked through the double doors just as Tym swallowed her first bite.
“Hey.” Tym’s face softened. “Hey.”
She took more bites, and so did her guests. What followed reminded Wes of his youth, at Camp Schlappi, where he and a dozen other boys would line up holding hands beside an electric cow fence. The lead boy would close his fist around the barbed wire, and a pulse would shoot down to the last boy, convulsing each body along the way. The pulse smarted your nerves and heart, but your muscles locked onto it so tightly that unless you tore yourself from the vine of boys you’d stay there, twitching with invisible juice, maybe till you died.
The wedding guests weren’t convulsing, but a current was running around the room. All the people, even the children, were chewing their food with shocked expressions, swallowing and beaming and having some more.
Lady Macbeth, bearing her mistress, nudged Wes from behind.
“Let us see,” Pill said.
Wes opened the double doors. The rest of the Amerigos came over.
Anna nodded at the guests. “What’s wrong with them?”
“Pill drugged them,” Michael said.
“Did not,” Pill said.
“Pill slipped them a mickey.”
“What’s a mickey?” Anna asked.
“A sedative,” Michael explained. “A punk-ass downer.”
[REDACTED] put her arms around her children, corralling their conversation. Together they watched the gorging guests, who were tearing down the temples and animals, cramming the food into their mouths.
Wes touched his wife’s wrist. “[REDACTED]. Bring us a fresh pan, please.”
[REDACTED] did. She brought out a warm loaf shaped like a swallow, and the Amerigos ate.
Wes’s tongue ignited with the first bite. The food was every taste he’d ever known—apples, marijuana, saffron, tequila—and every memory he married to those tastes. He detected the flavors of childhood colas, of a rabbit, cooked medium, that he and [REDACTED] had savored in [REDACTED], of the fried eggs he’d stared at the day his mother died. Webbing all these together was something delicious and beyond Wes’s vocabulary.
The other Amerigos, though they ate from the same loaf, had different sensations. [REDACTED] tasted brandy on her tongue, and a future of kisses, kisses that Wes hadn’t shared with her yet. Anna tasted the sweat that slipped over her lips when she danced. Michael smelled the peppermint schnapps he’d choked down the week before with Marvis and Charlie Bunt.
It was the mystery, though, the unnamed element of Pill’s food, that dynamized all alike. This element, like a radical atom, danced across the teeth of everyone in the room. It planted itself in their stomachs, bloomed in their minds.
As Wes took this force in, digested it, he had an odd thought. His thought was that the world was a hungry swirl. The world was a mixture of cinnamon and wind and fire and lime and bone, and people needed to feed on these elements to endure life among them. But people also needed a spice, an ecstasy. Somehow, both substance and rapture were ingredients in Pill’s food.
Kyle from Downstate stood on his chair, held up his plate. “This stuff kicks ass,” he yelled.
This broke the room’s trance. Other people shouted, waved their food.
“Tym, what is this?”
“Who cooked this?”
“It’s marzipan,” an Italian woman squawked. “Right?”
Harold Ives, the father of the groom, lifted his table’s pan. “Ours,” he said solemnly, “is an armadillo.”
“It’s a tortoise,” Pamela Ives said.
“It’s marzipan, damn it.”
“I taste dill,” a bridesmaid said.
Cecil Harkness licked his lips as he ate. He looked unspeakably pleased. “I’m getting some raw-oyster action here, JuJu. Or ground rhino horn.”
Bobby Monkey cackled over the microphone. “Magic beans, people. Magic beans.”
“Find the chef!” the groom called.
“To the kitchen!” the bride said.

“To the kitchen!” the crowd chanted.
Like a horde, they rose to their feet and surged toward the Amerigos, wearing dangerous smiles. Lady started barking.
“Everyone back,” Wes said.
As the crowd reached the kitchen doorway, the Amerigos moved back to the pantry, all except Pill. The wedding guests stopped abruptly at the sight of the little girl astride the giant, growling wolfhound.
“Hello,” Pill said.
“Where’s the chef?” the crowd said, panting.
Pill waved at the faces. “I’m Pill. I’m seven. This is Lady Macbeth.”
“Pill,” [REDACTED] said, “come away from there.”
“Is he the chef?” Tym pointed at Wes.
“We’re both the chefs,” Pill said.
“Pill’s creating a diversion.” Michael held a paring knife against his thigh. “To the van!”
Wes nodded. “Michael’s right. Let’s go.”
Jonathan Ives blinked down at Pill. “You’re the chef?”
“Well,” Pill admitted, “I ruined the truffles.”
The Amerigos moved to the loading bay, which opened flush onto the van’s back door.
“Wes,” [REDACTED] said, “we can’t leave Pill.”
Wes looked back at his daughter, who was holding her hand up to the crowd. He saw that Pill had become the fulcrum of something immense.
“She’s coming,” Wes promised.
Michael clapped [REDACTED]’s shoulder. “Pill’s got our backs.”
“Michael’s got a knife,” Anna said.
“They’re getting away,” JuJu Harkness said.
“Don’t let them go!” Tym cried.
Pamela Ives said, “Get the recipe.”
Tym shoved past everyone, and confronted Pill. Lady Macbeth bared her fangs.
“Back, Lady,” Pill ordered.
Both the dog and the bride took this as a command. Tym stopped shoving. Lady Macbeth retreated toward the loading bay. With each step the wolfhound took, the crowd advanced. Many had lost their smiles.
“Please,” Tym begged, “the recipe.”
“The recipe,” Cecil Harkness said.
“The recipe!” the crowd demanded.
“Who makes the clams?” Pill shouted. “Who makes the clams?”
The crowd quieted. “What?” they murmured. “What’d she say?”
The van roared.
“Good night, everybody.” Pill hugged her wolfhound’s neck. “Home, Lady.”
Lady Macbeth spun, reared like a steed, sprinted for the van. The crowd gave chase. At the bay door, Lady Macbeth launched into the van, landing on the fridge bin. Wes gunned the engine. The van raced off, with Pill still saddled on her dog, waving back at the throng.
The next morning, as snow fell gently on Second Mountain, the Amerigos were at home, awake, in their kitchen. Pill sat calmly beside Lady Macbeth on the floor, where they were each having a bowl of oatmeal with Sheeno sauce. Wes, [REDACTED], Michael, and Anna sat at the breakfast table, staring down at Pill, wondering what to say. A batch of Wes’s blueberry muffins stood untouched on a plate.
“I—” Wes cleared his throat. “I guess we all experienced something of a—” He looked at [REDACTED], and they both blushed. The night before, they’d shared a last piece of Pill’s food in bed. Then, on some wonderful, chaotic impulse, Wes had performed with [REDACTED] for the first time since college a sexual move they’d once dubbed Cramming for Exams.
A knock sounded on the kitchen door. When Wes opened it, Barter Kincaid, features reporter for the Second Mountain Minute, snapped Wes’s picture. Around Barter’s neck were a pad and pen on a cord. “Your family’s famous, Wes. Any comment?”
“No,” Wes said.
Barter thrust his chin toward Pill. “Word is your daughter there served up some serious mojo last night, over to the Lodge. Heroin cakes. Acid bagels. Something.”
“They’re not cakes,” Pill said. “They’re Pills. Like me.”
“Pills. Huh. Cute angle.” Barter jotted in his notepad. He held his pen like a scalpel. “Anything else?”
Lady Macbeth growled.
“Our family doesn’t cook with heroin,” [REDACTED] said. “Or acid.”
“Goodbye.” Wes shut the door and returned to the table.
“Will Pill be incarcerated?” Michael asked.
Anna bit her lip. “Is Pill sick?”
Wes scooped Pill off the floor, into his lap. “Pill’s staying right here. She’s fine. She’s just special, that’s all.”
“She’s gifted,” [REDACTED] said.
“Am I gifted?” Anna asked.
[REDACTED] nodded. “Of course, honey. So is Michael.”
“How?”
“Well, you have your dancing. And Michael has . . . comic timing.”
“What the hell is that?” Michael demanded.
“Don’t swear. It means you say funny things at the right times.”
“How’s Pill gifted?” Anna asked.
[REDACTED] looked at Wes. Sixteen years before, he’d proposed to her while they were driving on the highway, arguing about burial versus cremation. It had happened at 12:31 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. [REDACTED] had said, “Maybe,” as a tease, and then they’d kept arguing, Wes defending burial, which [REDACTED] had never believed in. When he said that he wanted to be buried not beside [REDACTED] but in the same coffin with her, ribs to ribs with her forever, [REDACTED] had said yes.
“Do you know what your soul is?” [REDACTED] asked her children.
“The part of you that floats.” Michael was chewing a muffin.
“Well,” [REDACTED] said, “I think Pill was born with an extra-strength soul. That’s her gift.”
“But what was in those things Pill made?” Anna asked. “I mean, where’d she get the recipe?”
Wes turned Pill around to face him. “Pill, honey. Answer your sister. Where’d you get the recipe?”
Pill yawned, stretched her arms. “From the part of me that floats,” she said.
At noon, Pill saddled herself on Lady Macbeth. “Lady wants a look around,” she told her father.
Wes frowned. Pill did this most Sundays, rode Lady Macbeth into town. She and the wolfhound cantered through Switchwood Park, bought licorice at Captain Hardware. Wes usually let Pill take these trips alone, because he suspected that they had to do with her prayers, her solitude. Also, Second Mountain was a small town, and even if it weren’t, given Lady Macbeth’s fangs, no one would ever trouble Pill. On the other hand, Wes thought, Pill had never jazzed up the populace as she had last night.
“I’m coming, too,” he announced.
The girl, her father, and her dog went to town. They ambled past the Main Street stores of Wes’s youth: Digby Sundries, the Happy Belly Deli, Topper’s Gym & Spa. As they walked, the denizens of Second Mountain appeared and accosted Pill.
“Pill,” Sharkey Meager said. “Pill, revive my nose.” Sharkey had woken up unable to smell on New Year’s Day, 1987, and he’d tasted nothing since.
Pill frowned. “I don’t know about noses,” she told Sharkey. “But if you want a Pill, come by our house later—77 Triphammer Lane.”
After Sharkey came Preston Fort, who couldn’t stomach dairy, and Wendy Bunt, who couldn’t bear children. Young Trisha Sibley, the wretched bassoonist, waved shyly at Pill from the porch of Digby Sundries, while Andrew Wallace Wix, head chef at the Otter Inn, challenged Pill to a bake-off. Roy Kincannon, bloated and lonely, begged for something slimming.
Pill told them all that they could come by the house if they wanted.
Wes stopped Lady Macbeth on the sidewalk. He leaned down, peered into his daughter’s unknowable black eyes. “Pill.”
“Yes, Daddy?”
Wes inhaled and exhaled, not sure what to ask.
“Pill, will those people . . .” Wes watched his breath make ghosts in the air. He remembered doing this as a child, wondering why the ghosts never stayed. “If those people eat what you make them, will they . . . get what they want?”

Pill shrugged.
“Hey,” a voice said. “Girl.”
Wes looked around. He and Pill and Lady Macbeth were in front of the Masterpiece Pub. Hunched in a snowdrift beside the Masterpiece was Nox Vandermalley, dressed in garbage bags.
“Hey, girl,” Nox said.
Wes cleared his throat nervously. “Come on, Pill. Let’s keep going.”
Nox Vandermalley had been born in Second Mountain with a dead eye, an empty black hole in his face, and he had no living family. If Nox had had a wandering or lazy eye, or the decency to patch over his darkness, the town might have understood, given Nox work or a wife. As it was, Nox was a drifter, bone thin and stubborn, and he lived in an old coyote den, in Switchwood Forest. He prowled into town on occasion, but if you passed him an idle good word it just got sucked into his dead eye like driftwood into a whirlpool.
Lady Macbeth growled.
“Hold, Lady,” Pill said. She remained on the wolfhound, just five feet from Nox.
“What you want with me, girl?”
“I’m Pill,” Pill said. “I’m seven. This is Lady Macbeth.”
Nox grabbed his rump with both hands. “Yeah? Well, these are my buttocks.”
“All right, Pill.” Wes put his hand to his daughter’s shoulder. “Let’s go.”
“If you want to,” Pill told Nox, “stop by the house later—77 Triphammer Lane.”
Wes leaned his head close to Pill’s. “No, baby,” he whispered. “I’m sorry. This man can’t come.”
Pill turned to her father, and kissed him once, hard, on the lips. “Yes, he can, Daddy.”
Wes stood still. His daughter’s kiss kindled in his mouth. It poured down his throat like tea, filled his heart.
“Wow,” Wes said. He stared at the snow falling around him, the town he’d spent his life in. Before him was the Masterpiece, the pub where he’d first been punched. Half a mile away was Harkness Cemetery, where he and his wife had a plot. And inside him was his daughter’s kiss, telling him the truth. It was telling him that, Pills or no Pills, Eritreans might starve, and Michael would remain a wise-ass, and Nox would stay half blind and surly, and births and wars and kindnesses would stake their claims on earth.
“Wow.” Wes laughed out loud. He stretched his neck, turned his hips. Some constriction inside him, some icicle that had been living in his spine, was gone.
“Hey. You two. I’m still here.” Nox, covered in slush, glared at the Amerigos.
“See you tonight,” Pill told the man. She spurred her heels gently into Lady’s flanks, and the Amerigos started off.
“I’m still holding my buttocks,” Nox hollered.
By evening, most of the Harkness-Ives wedding guests and at least another hundred people were queued up on the Amerigos’ lawn and down Triphammer Lane. Sharkey was there, and Preston, and Roy Kincannon, and a ragged figure in garbage bags. Despite the snow, the local scoutmaster, Robert Sibley, had set up tents, and inside these tents adults sat around glowing space heaters while children played games. Like soup-kitchen patrons or concertgoers, the crowd was prepared to endure.
Through the Amerigos’ kitchen window, those on the lawn could see Pill, engaged in a flurry of activity. Flour was tossed in the air, pots and pans clanged together, and a large animal barked now and then from inside the white cloud.
Because Pill had requested privacy, the other Amerigos were out on the lawn, too. Michael was in the back yard, trying his first joint with the Bunt brothers, while Anna, in a lavender snowsuit, weaved among the tents, dancing for anyone who would watch. Jonny and Tymalyn Ives were telling [REDACTED] that, given their newlywed status, they should really have dibs on the first batch of whatever emerged from the kitchen. Meanwhile, about thirty young couples were huddled around Wes, who stood beside a campfire with a calendar in his hand, giddily filling in reception dates.
“Wes?” A smooth, booming voice jostled through all the others. “Wes? A word, please.”
Wes looked up. Standing before him in a richly furred overcoat was Cecil Harkness, a fat manila envelope in his hand.
Cecil ushered Wes to one side, kept his voice a secret. “I’ll give you five thousand dollars for the recipe, Amerigo.”
Wes looked around him at the crowd, the carnival of need on his lawn. He breathed deep, felt fine.
“Keep your envelope, Cecil. You’ll have to wait in line like everyone else.”
Cecil raised his eyebrows. Wes pushed the envelope firmly against Cecil’s chest. “Keep it. And stop calling my wife Moxie. Her name is [REDACTED]. [REDACTED] Amerigo.”
Cecil tried to protest, but Wes turned back to the hopeful couples. He turned back to them and those beyond them, the mighty, broken folk of Second Mountain, the masses waiting to taste, to laud, to mourn, to behold and savor their piquant, unpredictable selves. 

