THE PAINTED DRUM
By Louise Erdrich

I was called upon to handle the estate of John Jewett Tatro just after his Presbyterian funeral. I went to make my appraisal of the contents of the house on an overcast morning in spring. The sky was a threatful gray, yet the willows blazed in tender bud, and drifts of wild-apple blossoms floated in the cavern pines. I kept the windows slightly open as I drove the back roads to the Tatro house, and breathed in the watery air. The Tatros had always been too cheap to keep up their road, and the final quarter mile was partly washed out, the gnarled bedrock exposed. Overgrown swamps and ponds lapped close to either side. As I bounced along, the frogs quieted momentarily, so that I seemed to be continuously pushing against a wall of sound. Once I stopped, the frogs began trilling again. Making my way up the flagstone walkway to where the Tatros' grandniece waited, I stopped a moment, caught in the vehemence. Spring in [REDACTED] can be disorienting—virginal and loudly sexual all at once.
The Tatro house was not grand anymore. The original nineteenth-century homestead had been renovated and enlarged so many times that its style was obscured. Here a cornice, there a ledge. The building was now a great clapboard mishmash, with aluminum-clad storm windows bolted over the old rippled glass and a screen porch tacked darkly across its front. The siding was painted the brown-red color of old blood. The over-all appearance of the house was ramshackle and sad, but the woman who greeted me was cheerful enough, and the interior was comfortable, though dim. We began my first, casual viewing. The rooms were filled with an odor I have grown used to in my work. It is an indefinable scent, really, made up of mothballs and citrus oil, of dust and cracked leather. The smell of old things. I noted that an inordinate number of closets seemed to have been added to the house during some period of expansion, even on the ground floor.
The niece, whose name was Sarah, was a pleasant, square-jawed woman, with light-brown hair and blue eyes. She was in her mid-thirties, perhaps ten years younger than I am, and the sort of woman who volunteers to supervise recess or construct grade-school art projects. I knew the type. I had attempted to be the type. So had my mother. But our fascination with the stuff of life, or, more precisely, with the afterlife of stuff, had always set us apart. Mother had started the business, and we had run it jointly now for nearly two decades. We are fair, discreet, honest, and knowledgeable. We are well known in our part of [REDACTED], and well respected, I think. There is a certain advantage to our gender. More often than not, it is the women of the family who get stuck dealing with the physical estate, the possessions, and we are also women. We understand what it is like to face a mountain of petty decisions when in grief. As I sat down with Sarah, to formalize things over a cup of coffee, I felt the comfortable and immediate sense of solidarity that I often feel with other women at times like this—there is sympathy, of course, but also some relief. Finally, to get on with things! There is even some excitement at the idea of the task ahead. Cleaning out a house can numb you to the bone, but there are always discoveries along the way. Some are valuable—an original Shaker table under a coat of milk paint, a fabulous porcelain or saccharine but valuable old Hummels amid chipped salt-and-pepper shakers. Once, an old bucket forgotten in a pantry corner turned out to be a hand-painted Leder, worth thousands. First editions turn up, too: a signed Mark Twain, a Wharton, maybe a pristine Salinger—you never know what will surface from even the most unpromising pile. And then some discoveries are revelatory—diaries, packets of love letters, a case of antique pornography featuring trained ponies, certificates listing surprising causes of death or unknown births. The contents of a house can trigger all sorts of revisions to a family history.
Behind my eagerness to take on the Tatro estate, there was also a thread of connection that reached back several generations. My mother and I specialize in Native American antiquities. In "The History of Stiles and Stokes," a book published on subscription by our local historical society, there is an entire chapter devoted to the Tatro family, and within that chapter a paragraph about the great-grandfather of the most recently deceased Tatro. Jewett Parker Tatro had been an Indian agent on the Ojibwa reservation in [REDACTED], where my own grandmother was born and where she lived until the age of six, at which time she was taken [REDACTED] and enrolled at the Carlisle Indian School, in [REDACTED]. There she had learned to sew intricately, to add and subtract, to do laundry, to scrub a floor clean, to read, write, and recite Bible passages, Shakespeare sonnets, Keats odes, and the Declaration of Independence. The Carlisle school was also where she fell in love.
My grandmother had stayed in the [REDACTED] with the young teacher she married shortly after graduating, though she returned for visits and bore my mother on her own allotment land. But we have never really been 43616e616461erners. The connection between Tatro and the reservation was of interest to us because it wasn't uncommon for Indian agents back then to amass extensive collections of artifacts, and of course we had always wondered whether the Tatro house held such a trove. Although we'd had little indication while the last two Tatro brothers were alive (they died within two months of each other), and at first I saw nothing that would lead me to think that those closets held anything more exotic than magazines and clothing and phonograph records, there had been rumors. And to our knowledge a large-scale Tatro collection had never been donated to any local, state, or college museum. There were those many closets and the thick walls of the downstairs rooms. Also, there was the Tatros' character—there was certainly that—to consider.
They were sharp, they were shrewd, they were flinty, calm cheaters and secret hoarders. They haunted tag sales. Bought food in bulk. Hitchhiked when gas was expensive, though they were not poor. Saved the rubber bands off broccoli and bananas, when they bought such luxuries. They boiled the sap from their trees and stole the corn from their neighbors' fields. They picked fiddleheads, tore fruit off stunted trees, shot and roasted raccoons. Each fall they bought and salted down a pig, devouring it from snout to hock over the course of a year. To my mind, the Tatros were the sort of cheap old Yankee bachelors who would keep a valuable collection of artifacts just because it had never occurred to them to part with anything. They would simply have hung on to their stuff—moldering, mothballed, packed away with cedar blocks—until Judgment Day.
Curiously, perhaps, the house I live in with my mother is not cluttered. It's not that our vocation has made us snobbish. Rather, it is the constant reminder of our own mortality that reins us in. To strive to own anything of extraordinary value generally strikes us as absurd, given our biodegradability. Still, there are a few objects we've found irresistible. Their nature probably reveals that we are more captive to our background than we admit: a lustrous double-throated Maria Martinez wedding vase; an Ojibwa cradleboard, with a wrap of intricately beaded velvet; three very fine Navajo rugs; a bandolier bag that was probably carried by the last Ojibwa war leader, Bugonageshig himself; a few seed pots; several shaved-quill boxes; and some heavy old turquoise that must be continually polished. Yes, we'd like to leave our path to Heaven clear, to travel a spare, true road. Yet we're human enough.

Sarah Tatro did not intend to let the house and its contents trap her. Over the cup of coffee—one of those thick diner-style white mugs, surely swiped from a local café by one of the uncles—she told me that she was anxious to clear the place out and put it on the market. I found her forthrightness appealing and, at the same time, the idea that the Tatro house would pass from Tatro ownership after nearly two centuries infected me with a faint melancholy. It is unusual for one place to remain so long in the same family—I was, surprisingly, tempted to try to dissuade her from breaking with the past and carrying on with, of all things, her own life. I controlled myself. I took out my notebook and began to make a rough list of the contents of the house. Later, I would be joined by two assistants, but I prefer to work alone at first, as does my mother. I like to get a feel for the things in a house, a sense of the outlook of the person who, though safely in the next world, still lingers in the arrangement and treatment of his goods. I like to make peace with the dead.
I asked Sarah if her great-uncle had had any particular interest or collection that might require special handling or appraisal. "Oh, I don't know, there's just so much of everything." She waved her hands. "So many old sets of dishes. And he owned a number of guns. Some of those are old. And then the closets on the ground floor go way back behind the walls. They're stuffed. So, really, it's anybody's guess."
I was on my own, and soon I was immersed in the pleasures of my job. The sorrows of strangers are part of my business, and, were I to examine my motives for choosing this line of work, I might find that from their losses I extract some bit of comfort—as though my constant proximity to death protected me and those I love. The furniture in the first two rooms on the ground floor was in adequate repair and quite good, though there were no "finds." Predictably, the Tatros hadn't been bibliophiles, nor was there much in the way of decorative touches—lamps, vases, figurines. Yet the walls were hung with six nice paintings by local artists, and there was one oil sketch, a sort of pre-painting drawing, by Maxfield Parrish. That discovery alone would have made my day at any other time. In this case, it also indicated the Tatro tendency to hold on to things, as Parrish was well known and the work could easily have been sold. I tried not to get my hopes up, but when I opened the door to the first closet my fingers were clumsy with excitement. Quickly, I went through what I could see. The usual boxes of magazines. Piles of curtains and old and faded linen. A great many boots of all styles, reaching back for decades. Mothballed coats made of everything from wool to skunk fur. The closet went on and on, but soon enough I decided to leave it to my assistants. The next closet was stuffed with records. Mostly 78 r.p.m., swing or big band. I was beginning to worry that the rumors were just that, when, upon embarking on a wide bank of shelves built into a wall, I found the first indication of, it seems curious to say, life.
Some estates come to life and others don't. Some holdings have little personality, others much. There is a moment I think of still, one I nearly missed. Years ago, I opened a small wooden chest containing what appeared to be handkerchiefs wrapped in tissue paper, just handkerchiefs, bearing the owner's initials: L.M.B. I was about to empty the box and scatter its contents among the linens, when I noticed a label. Pinned to each cotton, lawn, lace-trimmed, or embroidered handkerchief, I realized, was a carefully cut label with a date inked in ladylike script. A name, or names, were written. And occasions: "Teddy's Christening." "Venetta and John Howard's Wedding." "Teddy's Funeral." "Brother Adamantine's Wake." "First Opera, 'La Traviata.' " "Broken Arm." And far down at the bottom, perhaps the handkerchief that started the collection, a child's small square of fabric clumsily labelled "My Mother's Funeral." I remember sitting with the handkerchiefs of L.M.B. as the rest of the work of pricing and sorting swirled around me. Here was a box containing a woman's lifetime of tears. I passed through several stages of emotion. The first was elation at the novelty of such an idea, and I felt the urge to show the box to my assistants. Next, I was swept through with irritation. I almost never think of non-Indians as "white"; after all, my own skin is pale. But I experienced a sudden jolt of prejudice that surprised me. Just like a white lady—so stingy with her tears she kept them, I thought. Then I recovered myself and sat a little longer, holding the box, which was very light, old varnished pine, and turning over one handkerchief after another. "Theodor's Precious Birth." "Aunt Lilac's Deathbed Supper." What was a deathbed supper? "Cousin Franklin's Wedding to Mildred Vost." More funerals. The other workers left to tackle the next room, and it was then, sitting with L.M.B.'s sorrows and joys, that my own eyes filled with tears. There weren't many. I am not the crying sort anymore. But when I did feel that swell of sadness I reached immediately for one of the handkerchiefs, dabbed my eyes, and added my own tears to the box. Then I closed the box. I knew that what had happened was exactly right. "Tears Shed for L.M.B.," I might have written on a scrap of paper. I'd have to buy the box myself now, but that seemed the proper close to the collection. I'd heard that the owner had become a ferocious bore in her old age, critical, churchy, and prone to making complaint calls to the parents of young boys who cut across her front lawn or spoiled her tulips. But that's what I mean by coming to life.
The estate of John Jewett Tatro came into a similar focus when I made the acquaintance of a doll with a face of fawnskin and eyes of jet. I knew that the doll was something special the moment I put my hands on it. It was wrapped in faded red trade cloth and placed inside a shoebox. The shoebox had been mistakenly stored on a shelf of shoes, and when I opened it I caught an unmissable whiff of smoked hide—a smell that could only have accumulated, molecule by molecule, over the course of years. As I removed the doll from its wrapping, the fugitive taste of smoke vanished and there was the doll herself, exquisite. The perfectly cured hide that was her skin had somehow retained its softness, though from the faintly smudged darknesses on her arms and skirt I saw that she had been loved as a toy. Her red quill lips were stitched into a calm, amused smile, and her bead eyes were set at a lively angle. Her coarse black hair had been plucked from a horse's mane and divided into braids. Her dress was also made of tanned hide, decorated with bits of shell and the old antique beads called "greasy yellow" and "ruby-red whiteheart" and "German blue." Her waist was belted with a woven sash. Attached to it, she wore a scabbard that secured a tiny skinning knife. Her moccasins were sewn with flowers, and a ring of trade silver made a bracelet on her arm. From her pierced fawnskin ears dangled miniature earbobs, hawk's bells so unusually small that they could have hung from the throats of warblers. She carried a thimble-size basket woven so cleverly that I laughed in pleasure. I brought the doll out at once, and showed her to Sarah.

"Oh, there she is!" She took the doll from its wrapping and handled it with familiar tenderness, smoothing the coarse hair down and caressing the slender horsehair brows embroidered above the glittering eyes. "My uncles used to let me play with her if I was very good."
"She's very good, you know. Valuable, I mean. We should have a museum curator look at her."
"Yeah?" Sarah was surprised, but not particularly pleased. I think she felt the same way I did about the doll. It was personal—the delight of owning the doll had nothing to do with its worth.
"Were there other things—American Indian, I mean—of that era?" I asked. "Did your uncles keep them all together somewhere? In a cabinet? Trunks?"
"Oh, God, yes, I'd forgotten all about it. One of the Tatros way back lived with the Indians," she said. "There was a lot of old beadwork and stuff. Come on upstairs, I'll show you."
On the way up the stairs, I tried to breathe slowly. There was an attic room, of course—a long, unfinished tar-papered hall lined with simple board shelves and stuffed with old suitcases. Most of the artifacts were kept in these suitcases, Sarah told me. There were also some larger things, wrapped in old bedspreads and horse blankets. We unveiled these at once—a cradleboard not as good as mine, large birch-bark winnowing baskets, a beadworked footstool, a drum. The suitcases held some precious examples of late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century bead-and-cloth appliqué work. There were moccasins, leggings, beaded ceremonial breech clouts, a vest, and two bandolier bags (in extraordinary condition, worth a great deal). There were also a number of lesser items—small purses of the sort once sold to tourists, a band for a headdress from which all the feathers had been removed, tobacco pouches, woven carrying straps and reed mats. We laid things out, unwrapped, on the tops of suitcases, draped off the edges of drawers and shelves, but stopped eventually. The collection went on and on.
"Congratulations," I said, and there must have been some degree of feeling in my voice. Sarah Tatro looked startled.
"Congratulations for what?"
"You can probably retire," I said. "Or at least take a long vacation. No more early-morning wakeup calls."
"You think all this is valuable?"
"Very."
Sarah dropped to a trunk and put her head in her hands. "You mean they were sitting on this all along?"
I said nothing, and after a time she shook her head and laughed shortly, without humor. "They were so cheap they ate oatmeal for dinner. And they spread Crisco on their bread instead of butter. The taxes on this place had gone sky-high, of course, and they wanted to keep it. So they lived on nothing. But in the end . . ." Her voice lifted. "I have to say I think they enjoyed their stinginess." And then she laughed with more ease. "They probably even enjoyed what they had here. You can see they went through these things. Checked them for mildew or bugs, I guess, rewrapped them. Set mousetraps. Look." She showed me the date on a newspaper that had been used to cushion a little sweet-grass basket. "Last year's."
"That's fortunate," I said. "The acid in the newspaper could have ruined that basket." I moved closer to look at the little coiled and sewn basket, and that is when I stepped near the drum.
I'm not a sentimental person. How could I be? I have seen the most intimate objects proceed to other hands, indifferent to the love once bestowed on them. Some people believe that things absorb their owners' essence. I stay clear of that. And yet when I stepped near the drum I swear it sounded. One deep, low, resonant note. I stopped dead, staring at the drum. I heard it, I know I heard it, and yet Sarah Tatro did not.
"I'm getting out of here," she said. "Too dusty. I'll be back later on this afternoon. I've got some errands in town."
And so I was left with Tatro's loot. I continued to stare at the drum, or what I could see, since it was mostly swaddled in a faded quilt. I'm not subject to imaginative fits, and I don't just hear things. There had to be an explanation. Something shifting to strike the skin. A change in air pressure. The quilt wasn't anything special, a simple collection of squares, machine-stitched and yarn-tied. I went over to the drum and pulled the fabric entirely away. The light in the attic came from two bare bulbs with pull chains, which cast harsh shadows. The head of the drum glared out, huge, three feet across at least. The moose that was skinned to make it must have been a giant. Yet there was something delicate about the drum, for it was intricately decorated, with a beaded belt and skirt, hung with tassels of pulled red yarn and sewn tightly all around with small tin cones, or tinklers. Four broad tabs were spaced equally around the top. Into their indigo tongues, four crosses were set, woven with brass beads. On the face of the drum, at the very center, a small bird was painted, in lighter blue. That was all. But the bird detail, the red flowered skirts, the tinklers, combined with the size of the drum, gave it an unusual sense of both power and sweetness.
I drew a folding chair close, sat, and jotted down the details. My hand dragged across the page. This was the sort of find that should have thrilled me, but I was uneasy, anxious. I looked around. I set my hand on the drum and then I felt, pulling through me like a nerve, a clear conviction. It was visceral. Not a thought but an instinct. I covered the drum again and went out to make sure that Sarah had gone. When I saw that the garage was empty and I was alone, I propped open the back door and went straight to the attic. I bundled the quilt more tightly around the drum, and then I carried it out of the house, slid it into the trunk of my car, and hid it by pulling down the theft-deterring blind I always use when parking at big auctions.
I worked the rest of the afternoon without thinking about what I'd done. When my thoughts flickered toward the drum, I veered away from any further examination. What I'd just done, or was about to do, was probably a felony and could ruin our business. The ease with which I had done it bewildered me. For a person who had not stolen so much as a candy bar all her life to walk coolly out of a client's house with such a valuable object might signal insanity. The beginning of a nervous breakdown. But I didn't feel that way. I felt quite lucid. And I wondered whether others who committed irrational and criminal acts felt this calm acceptance of a previously unknown part of themselves.
Dusk was forming, blue and cold, by the time I arrived home. I left the drum in the car, wrapped in the quilt, underneath its stretched plastic curtain. I didn't want it in the house yet. I had to think—not about whether what I'd done was right. By then I had decided that I wouldn't have done it unless it was, on some level, right. And yet the explanation of this rightness swirled beyond my reach. My real concerns were whether I could keep the drum hidden and whether I'd get caught. I was pretty sure that Sarah Tatro hadn't noticed the drum; in fact, she'd seemed indifferent to all her uncle's objects, save the doll she had played with as a child. I was also fairly certain that she was the only person who would have any knowledge of her uncle's collection. And even she had forgotten that it existed. I'd had to take the drum that afternoon, if I was to take it at all. I knew that, once I had catalogued the objects and had them appraised, the drum would have priced itself out of the reach of all but the wealthiest collectors, or a museum. Yet I didn't want the drum. What would I do with such a thing? Where would I keep it? No, I hadn't taken the drum for myself. I reassured myself of this as I sat down to dinner with my mother.

"You have an odd look on your face," she said. "So, how was it?"

I took the salad bowl from her hands and began forking leaves onto my plate.
"Well, it was all there," I told her.
"Oh!" She put her fork down.
I'd taken a mouthful of spinach, but suddenly I felt too tired to even chew. I slumped down in my chair. Then I threw my head back, stretched my arms. "I've been crouched over the notebook all afternoon. It's a real haul. Old—I mean old old—Tatro walked away with everything. Dolls, beadwork, cradleboards. You name it."
"So he got away with the good stuff. He had an eye."
We sat there with our food between us. My mother's hair, sleek and pulled back in a knot, was very white. She bore me late in age, when she had given up on getting pregnant. I was a gift. It's nice to be told, all your life, that you are a gift to someone. We were very happy right then, although I don't know exactly why. Perhaps it was just because our secret expectations had been met.
"There was a drum," I said to her.
She pushed her plate away and leaned toward me, her elbows on the table. Her eyes were narrow and slightly upturned at the corners. The irises, dark brown, had the milky-blue ring of age, but her gaze was still sharp. She was waiting for me to describe the drum.
"One of the big drums," I said. Her fingers flickered on the table.
"Was it dressed?"
"What?"
"Decorated."
"Yes."
"How?"
I told her about the crosses.
"Not crosses, not Christian. Those are stars. Was it painted?"
"There was a bird. A little blue bird."
She closed her eyes, pressed two fingers to the space between her eyebrows. I watched her carefully, because she does this when she is trying to form a thought. Finally, she spoke. She talked a long time, and I can only sum up what she said: The drum is the universe. The people who take their place at each side represent the spirits who sit at the four directions. A painted drum, especially, is considered a living thing and must be fed as the spirits are fed—with tobacco and a glass of water set nearby, sometimes a plate of food. A drum is never to be placed on the ground, or left alone, and it is always to be covered with a blanket or quilt. Drums are known to cure and known to kill. They become one with their keeper. They are made for serious reasons by people who dream the details of their construction. No two are alike, but every drum is related to every other drum. They speak to one another and they give their songs to humans. I should be careful around the drum, she said. She was bothered by its presence in the collection.
"It's more alive than a set of human bones,'' she finished.
After she went to bed, I cleared off a low table in the corner of my bedroom and then I brought the drum inside and balanced it carefully on the table. I shoved two chairs up against each side. Whenever I touched the drum, even to set it down, it made a sound. A high, hollow note. Or a low, uncertain tone, like a question. A slight tap on its edge set up reverberations. It was exquisitely sensitive for so powerful an instrument, and I wondered what it sounded like when struck with force, by many and in unison. I turned off the light and got into bed. I leave my windows open just a crack at night, even in winter. The darkness seethed with spring music, and from time to time, deep in the woods, a barred owl screamed like a woman in pain. I thought I might have dreams—as pragmatic as I consider myself, it had been a long, strange day. The realization that I'd stolen the drum outright surfaced and sank in my consciousness. No matter how justified by history I felt, I promised myself that I would not evade my guilt or rationalize my conduct.
Which was not the same as even considering that I might do the proper thing and return the drum to Sarah Tatro.
All I have is other people's lives. What I do belongs to them and to my mother—her business, her legacy, her blood. Even the box of tears in my closet belongs to another woman, L.M.B. But now I've stolen the drum. And it seems to me, as I lie in the dark of my room, that my instinctive theft signifies something so essential that it might be called survival. I have stepped out of rules and laws and am breathing thin, new air. My theft is but the first of many I'll accomplish—though not of objects. There are other things I need and will have to have, other things I'll take. Thoughts, plans, private rages, and even joys, now secret to myself.
I am usually a sound sleeper, but tonight, all night, it seems, I am listening. Thinking. So many ideas float in half-formed, and then veer off.
Our old house ticks. Not regularly, like a clock, but softly all through itself as the slats in the walls change temperature or the plaster tightens or the earth shifts underneath the granite-slab foundation. From time to time, the little sounds that the house makes reverberate inside the drum. My breath does, too. I hear a rising, then a falling. In and out. A greatness, a lightness. I grow heavier, and then so inert that my body seems without life. Between breaths, I lose feeling. And then my chest fills, a resurrection.
There is another thing that this house does in the deep of night. I have heard it before and now I wait for it to happen. The house releases the day's footsteps. All day we press down minutely on the wide old floorboards, moving about on regular errands, from room to room. It takes hours for the boards to readjust, to squeak back up the nails, for the old fibres of the pinewood to recover their give. As they do so, they reproduce the sound of the footsteps. In the night our maze of pathways is audibly retraced. I am used to it, as is Mother, but sometimes a wakeful guest is frightened. I can understand this. For now, as I rise and stand in half-darkness in the doorway of my bedroom, I hear the distinct creak of footsteps proceeding toward me, then past me, over to my bed. I feel the breath of my own passage, as though my dead self and my living self had briefly met in that doorway to sleep. 

