THE TEMPLE
By Gao Xingjian

We were deliriously happy, delirious with the hope, infatuation, tenderness, and warmth that go with a honeymoon. Fangfang and I had planned the trip over and over, even though we had only half a month off: ten days of wedding leave, plus one week of additional work leave. Getting married is a major event in life, and for us nothing was more important, so why not ask for some extra time? That director of mine was so miserly: anyone who went to him requesting leave had to haggle; there were never automatic approvals. The two weeks I had written in my application he changed to one week, including a Sunday, and it was with reluctance that he said, "I'll expect you to be back at work by the due date." "Of course, of course," I said. "We wouldn't be able to afford the salary deduction if we stayed longer." It was only then that he signed his name, thereby granting us permission to leave.
I wasn't a bachelor anymore. I had a family. I would no longer be able to go off to restaurants with friends as soon as I got paid at the beginning of the month. I wouldn't be able to spend recklessly so that by the end of the month I didn't have the money to buy a pack of cigarettes and had to go through my pockets and search the drawers for coins. But I won't go into all that. I'm saying that I—we were very happy. In our short lives, there hadn't been much happiness. Both Fangfang and I had experienced years of hardship, and we had learned how it is in the world. During those catastrophic years in this country, our families suffered through many misfortunes, and we still resented, to some extent, the fate of our generation. But I won't go into that, either, for the time being. What was important was that we could now count ourselves happy.
We had half a month's leave, and although it was only half a honeymoon, for us it couldn't have been sweeter. I am not going to go into how sweet it was. You all know about that and have experienced it yourselves, but this particular sweetness was ours alone. What I want to tell you about is the Temple of Perfect Benevolence: "perfect" as in "perfect union," and "benevolence" as in "benevolent love." But the name of the temple is not really of great importance. It was a dilapidated ruin, and certainly not a famous tourist attraction. No one knew about it, other than the locals, and I suspect that even the locals who knew what it was called were few. In any case, the temple we happened to visit wasn't one where people burned incense or prayed, and if we hadn't carefully examined the stone tablet with traces of writing in the drain of the water pump we wouldn't even have known that the temple had a name. The locals referred to it as "the big temple," but it was nothing compared with the Retreat for the Soul Temple, in Hangzhou, or the Jade Cloud Temple, in 4368696e61. Situated on a hill beyond the town, it was little more than an old two-story building with flying eaves and the remnants of a stone gate in front of it. The courtyard walls had collapsed. The bricks of the outer wall had been carried off by peasants to build their houses or construct pens for their pigs, and only a circle of unfired bricks remained, overgrown with weeds.
However, from a distance, from the small street of the county town, the expanse of glazed yellow tiles sparkling in the sunlight caught our eyes. We had come to this town quite by accident. Our train had stayed at the platform after the announced departure time, probably waiting for an express that was behind schedule to pass through. The chaotic scramble of passengers getting on and off had settled and, apart from the conductors chatting at the carriage doors, there was no one on the platform. Beyond the station was a valley with an expanse of gray roofs. Farther still, a chain of heavily wooded mountains gave the ancient town an exceptional air of tranquillity.
Suddenly I had an idea. I said, "Should we take a look at this town?"
Fangfang, who was sitting opposite and looking at me lovingly, gave a slight nod. Those eyes of hers seemed to speak, and, sensitive to each other, we communicated on the same frequency. Without a word, we took our bags from the luggage rack and rushed to the door of our carriage. As soon as we had jumped onto the platform, we both laughed.
I said, "We'll leave on the next train."
"I don't mind if we don't leave at all," Fangfang answered.
After all, we were travelling, and it was our honeymoon. If we fell in love with a place we would go there, and if we went on liking the place we would stay longer. The happiness of newlyweds accompanied us all the time, wherever we went. We were the happiest people in the world. Fangfang was holding my arm, and I was holding our bags. We wanted the conductors on the platform and the countless pairs of eyes on the other side of the train windows to look at us with envy.
We no longer had to drive ourselves mad trying to get transferred back to the city. Nor did we have to keep appealing to our parents for help. And we didn't have to worry about our residential status or our jobs anymore. We even had our own apartment, our own home; it wasn't very big, but it was comfortable. You belonged to me and I belonged to you and, Fangfang, I know what you want to say: This relationship is no longer immoral! And what does that mean? It means that we want everyone to share in our happiness. We've had so many problems, and we've troubled all of you with them, and you have all worried because of us. How can we repay you? With some candies and cigarettes after our wedding? No, we are repaying you with our happiness. There's nothing wrong with what I'm saying, is there?
So that was how we came to this quiet old town in the valley. But, in truth, the town was nowhere near as tranquil as it had seemed when we were looking out of the train window. Below the gray roof tiles, the lanes and alleys were throbbing with activity. It was nine o'clock in the morning, and people were selling vegetables and rock melons and freshly picked apples and pears. The streets of county towns like this one aren't wide, so mule carts, horse carts, and trucks were all jammed together, the drivers cracking their whips and sounding their horns. Dust in the air, dirty water tossed out by vegetable stalls, melon skins on the ground, squawking hens flapping in the hands of their buyers: these were sights that made us feel close to the town.
It all felt so different from the time when we were graduates sent to work in the countryside. Now we were just visitors passing through; we were tourists, and the complicated relationships between the people here had nothing to do with us. Inevitably, this produced in us city-dwellers a sense of superiority. Fangfang was clutching my arm tightly and I was leaning close to her, and we could sense people's eyes on us. But we didn't belong to this town; we were from another world. We walked right by them, and they didn't gossip about us; they gossiped only about the people they knew.

Eventually, there were no more vegetable stalls and very few people. We had left the bustle and din of the market behind. I saw from my watch that it had taken us only half an hour to walk the length of the main road from the railway station. It was still early. It would have been an anticlimax just to return to the station and wait for the next train, and Fangfang was already thinking about spending the night here! She didn't say so, but I could see that she was somewhat disappointed.
There was a man heading toward us, ostentatiously swinging his arms as he walked. He was probably a cadre.
"Excuse me, could you tell me how to get to the county hostel?" I asked.
He studied Fangfang and me for a moment, then enthusiastically pointed it out to us. "Go over there," he told us, "then head left. The red brick three-story building is the county hostel." He asked whom we were looking for, and he seemed to want to take us there himself. We explained that we were just tourists passing through and asked him if there were any sights worth seeing. He patted his head: this, it seemed, was a problem.
After giving the matter some thought, he said, "There actually aren't any scenic spots in this county. But there's a big temple up on the hill to the west of town, if you want to go there. You'll have to climb the hill, though, and it's steep!"
"That's O.K. We've come here so that we can go hiking," I said.
Fangfang hastened to add, "That's right. We're not afraid of climbing a hill."
At this, the man led us to the corner of the street. The hill was now directly in front of us, and on top of it, glazed tiles sparkling in the sun, was the old temple.
But then the man glanced at the high-heeled shoes that Fangfang was wearing and said, "You'll have to wade across a river."
"Is the water deep?" I asked.
"Above the knees."
I looked at Fangfang.
"That's nothing. I'll manage." She didn't want to disappoint me.
We thanked him and began walking in the direction he had indicated. When we turned onto the dusty dirt road, I couldn't help feeling somewhat regretful as I looked at the new high-heeled shoes with thin straps that Fangfang had on. Still, she charged ahead.
"You're really a crazy little thing," I said, catching up to her.
"As long as I'm with you."
Do you remember, Fangfang? You said this as you nestled against me.
We walked toward the riverbank. Corn grew straight, taller than a man, on both sides, and we followed a path through the green gauze canopy, with no one in sight either ahead or behind. Taking Fangfang in my arms, I gently kissed her. What's wrong with that? She doesn't want me to talk about that. So let's go back to the Temple of Perfect Benevolence. It was on the other side of the river, at the top of the hill. We could see tufts of weeds growing between the glistening yellow tiles.
The river was clear and cool. I held Fangfang's shoes and my leather sandals in one hand and Fangfang's hand in the other, while she scooped up her skirt with her free hand. Barefoot, we felt our way across. It had been a long time since I walked barefoot, so my feet were sensitive to even the smooth stones on the riverbed.
"Is it hurting your feet?" I asked Fangfang.
"I like it," you replied softly. On our honeymoon, even having sore feet was a happy sensation. All the misfortunes of the world seemed to flow away with the river water, and we returned for a moment to our youth. We frolicked in the water like mischievous children.
Fangfang leaped from rock to rock as I steadied her with one hand, and from time to time she hummed a song. After crossing the river, we started to run up the hill, laughing and shouting. Then Fangfang cut her foot and I was very upset, but she comforted me, saying that it was all right, it would be nothing as soon as she put on her shoes. I said that it was my fault, but she replied that she'd do anything to make me happy, even let her feet get cut. All right, all right, I won't go on about it. But because you are the friends we value most, who have shared our anxieties with us, we should also share our happiness with you.
It was in this way that we finally climbed to the top of the hill and arrived at the outer gate in front of the temple. Within the collapsed courtyard wall there was a gutter with pure water from the pump running through it. In what had been the courtyard, someone had planted a patch of vegetables, and next to it was a manure pit. We recalled the years that we had spent shovelling manure with production units in the countryside. Those difficult times had trickled away like water, and there remained some grief but also sweet memories, and there was our love, too. In the glorious sunlight, no one could interfere with this secure love of ours. No one would be able to harm us again.
Near the big temple there was also an iron incense burner. It was probably too heavy to move and too thick to break apart, so it continued to keep the old temple company, standing guard in front of the main door. The door was padlocked. Boards had been nailed over the rotten wooden lattice windows, but they, too, had rotted. The place was probably now being used as a storehouse for the local production team.
No one else was around, and it was very peaceful. We could hear the mountain wind moaning in the ancient pines in front of the temple, and, as there was no one to disturb us, we lay down on the grass in the shade of the trees. Fangfang rested her head on my arm, and we looked up at a thread of cloud that was about to disappear into the blue sky. Ours was an indescribable happiness, a true contentment.
We would have gone on lying there, intoxicated by this tranquillity, but we heard heavy footsteps on the flagstones. Fangfang sat up, and I got to my feet to have a look. A man was walking along the stone path from the gate toward the temple. He was a big fellow, with a mass of tangled hair and an untrimmed beard covering his cheeks. He was scowling. From beneath bushy eyebrows, his stern eyes surveyed us.
The wind had turned cool. Probably noticing our curious looks, the man raised his head slightly in the direction of the temple. Then, squinting, he studied the weeds swaying among the shiny tiles. He stopped in front of the incense burner and, striking it with one hand, made it ring. His fingers, gnarled and rough, looked as if they, too, were made of cast iron. In his other hand he held a tattered black cotton bag. He didn't seem like a commune member who had come to tend the vegetables. He was sizing us up again, looking at Fangfang's high-heeled shoes and our travel bags in the grass. Fangfang immediately put her shoes back on. Then, unexpectedly, he addressed us. "Are you from out of town? Are you enjoying yourselves here?"

I nodded.
"It's good weather," he said.
He seemed to want to talk. The eyes under those thick eyebrows had become less stern, and he appeared well-meaning. He was wearing leather shoes with rubber-tire soles, and the seams had split in places. The legs of his trousers were wet, so he had clearly come across the river from town.
"It's cool, and the view is quite beautiful," I said.
"Sit down. I'll be leaving shortly."
It seemed that he was offering a kind of apology. He, too, sat down on the grass beside the flagstones. He opened his bag and said, "Would you like a melon?"
"No, thanks," I said quickly. But he threw me a rock melon anyway. I caught it and was about to throw it back.
"It's nothing. I've got half a bag of them here," he said, raising the heavy bag to show me and taking out another melon as he spoke.
I couldn't say no, so I took a parcel of snacks from my travel bag, opened it, and held it out to him. "Try our snacks," I said.
He took a small piece of cake and put it on top of his bag.
"That's enough," he said. "Go ahead and eat it." He squeezed the melon in his big hands, cracking the brittle skin. "They're clean. I washed them in the river." He tossed away the melon rind and shouted in the direction of the gate, "Take a break! Come and eat some melon!"
"But there are long-horned grasshoppers here!" A boy's voice came from beyond the gate, then the boy himself appeared on the slope, holding a wire cage.
"There are plenty of them. I'll catch some for you later," the man replied.
The little boy came toward us, bouncing and jumping as he ran.
"Is it school vacation?" I asked and, copying the man, cracked our melon into pieces.
"It's Sunday today, so I brought him out," he replied.
We were so intoxicated with our own holiday that we had forgotten what day of the week it was. Fangfang took a bite of the melon and smiled at me to indicate that he was a good man. There are, in fact, many good people in the world.
"Eat it. It's from Uncle and Auntie over there," he said to the boy, who was staring at the cream cake on top of his bag. The boy had grown up in this town and had clearly never seen such a cake. He took it and ate it right away.
"Is he your son?" I asked.
The man didn't reply, but said to the boy, "Take the melon and go play. I'll catch grasshoppers for you later."
"I want to catch five of them!" the boy said.
"All right, we'll catch five."
The man watched him as he ran off with the wire cage in his hand. There were deep creases at the corners of his eyes.
"He isn't my son," he said, looking down and taking out a cigarette. Striking a match, he dragged hard. He perceived our surprise and added, "He's the child of my paternal cousin. I want to adopt him, but it depends on whether he's willing to come and stay with me."
Suddenly we understood that this stern man's heart was churning with emotion.
"What about your wife?" Fangfang couldn't help asking.
There was no reply. He puffed hard on his cigarette, got up, and left.
We felt the chill of the mountain air. On the brilliant yellow tiles, the fresh grass that had sprouted in the spring was as tall as the old, withered stalks, and both swayed in the breeze. In the blue sky, a floating cloud that seemed to hang on the corner of a flying eave created the impression that the temple itself was tilting. A broken tile at the edge of the eave looked as if it were about to fall. Perhaps it had sat that way for years without falling.
The man was standing on a mound that had once been a wall, and for a long time he just stared out at the mountains and valleys. In the distance were ridges that were higher and steeper than the hill we were on. There were no terraced fields on the mountain slopes and no houses to be seen.
"You shouldn't have asked him," I said.
"Don't go on about it." Fangfang looked aggrieved.
"There's a grasshopper here!" The boy's voice came from the other side of the hill. It seemed far away but was very clear.
The man strode off in his direction, swinging the bag of rock melons, and disappeared from sight. I put a hand on Fangfang's shoulder and pulled her toward me.
"Don't." She turned away.
"There's a bit of grass in your hair," I explained, removing a pine needle that had stuck to her hair.
"That tile is about to fall," Fangfang said. She, too, had noticed the broken tile that was hanging so precariously. "It would be good if it fell. Otherwise it might injure someone," she mumbled.
"It might be a while before it does fall," I said.
We walked to the mound where the man had been standing. In the valley there was a stretch of farmland, dense crops of luxuriant green barley and broomcorn millet, waiting for the autumn harvest. Below us, on a level part of the slope, were a few mud huts, their bottom halves newly coated in brilliant white lime. The man was holding the boy's hand as they made their way down a little winding track, past the huts and through the crops. Suddenly, like a colt that has broken free of its reins, the boy bolted off, dashing ahead then turning and running back. He seemed to be waving the cage at the man.
"Do you think the man caught grasshoppers for him?"
Fangfang, do you remember asking me that?
"Of course," I said. "Of course."
"He caught five of them!" you said cheekily.
Well, that's the Temple of Perfect Benevolence that we visited on our honeymoon, and which I wanted to describe for all of you. 

