           FICTION  WITHOUT  BLOOD  BY  ALESSANDRO  BARICCO  he  old  farmhouseof  Mato  Rujo  stood  blankly  in  the  countryside,  carved  in  black  against  the  evening  light,  the  only  stain  in  the  empty  outline  of  the  plain.  Four  men  had  arrived  in  an  old  Mer-  cedes.  The  road  was  pitted  and  dry.  Manuel  Roca  saw  them  from  the  win-  dow.  First  he  saw  a  column  of  dust  rising  against  the  corn.  Then  he  heard  the  sound  of  the  engine.  No  one  around  here  had  a  car  anymore.  Manuel  Roca  knew  that.  The  Mercedes  emerged  in  the  distance  and  disappeared  behind  a  line  of  oaks.  Then  he  stopped  looking  and  returned  to  the  table.  He  placed  a  hand  on  his  daughter's  head.  Get  up,  he  told  her.  He  took  a  key  from  his  pocket,  put  it  on  the  table,  and  nodded  to  his  son.  Yes,  the  son  said.  At  the  crossroads,  near  the  stream,  the  old  Mercedes  did  not  turn  off  to  the  farmhouse  but  continued  toward  Alva-  rez.  The  man  driving  had  onsome  kind  of  uniform.  The  other  man  sitting  in  front  wore  a  cream-colored  suit.  Ironed.  &quot;You  just  have  to  stay  here  quietly.&quot;  She  stared.  &quot;Whatever  happens,  you  mustn't  come  out,  you  mustn't  move,  just  stay  quietly  here  and  wait.&quot;  She  said  nothing.  &quot;Everything  will  be  all  right.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;Listen  to  me.  It's  possible  that  I  might  have  to  go  away  with  these  men.  Don't  come  out  until  your  brother  comes  to  get  you,  do  you  understand?  Or  until  you  can  tell  that  no  one  is  there  and  it's  all  over.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  to  wait  until  no  one  is  there.&quot;  The  child  stared.  &quot;Don't  be  afraid,  Nina,  nothing's  going  to  happen  to  you.  All  right?&quot;  Yes.&quot;  &quot;Give  me  a  kiss.&quot;  The  girl  pressed  her  lips  against  her  father's  forehead.  He  stroked  her  hair.  &quot;Everything  will  be  all  right,  Nina.&quot;  He  remained  standing,  as  if  there  were  still  something  he  had  to  say.  &quot;This  wasn't  what  I  wanted,&quot;  he  said.     g  He  was  smoking  a  French  cigarette.  One  2  of  the  two  in  the  back  was  only  a  boy.  Manuel  Roca  heard  the  sound  fade  g  into  the  distance.  Who  do  they  think  %  they  re  fooling?  he  thought.  He  saw  his  3  son  come  back  into  the  room  with  a  §  gun  in  his  hand  and  another  under  his  &lt;  arm.  &quot;Put  them  there,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  9  turned  to  his  daughter.  &quot;Come,  Nina.  éDon'tbe  afraid.  Come  here.&quot;  Manuel  Roca  moved  some  baskets  of  fruit  to  one  side,  bent  over,  raised  a  0  hldden  trapdoor,  and  looked  in.  It  was  5  little  more  than  a  hole  dug  into  the  earth,  €  like  the  den  ofan  animal.  &quot;Listen  to  me,  Nina.  Some  people  are  &amp;  commg,  and  I  don't  want  them  to  see  &lt;  you.  You  have  to  hide  in  here.  The  best  2£  thing  is  for  you  to  hide  and  wait  until  z  they  go  away.  Do  you  understand?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  Instinctively,  the  child  searched  her  father's  eyes  for  something  that  might  help  her  understand.  She  saw  nothing.  The  father  leaned  over  and  kissed  her  on  the  lips.  &quot;Now  go,  Nina.  Go  on,  down  there.&quot;  The  child  let  herself  fall  into  the  hole.  The  earth  was  hard  and  dry.  She  lay  down.  &quot;Wait,  take  this.&quot;  The  father  handed  hera  blanket.  She  spread  it  on  the  dirt  and  lay  down  again.  She  heard  her  father  say  something  to  her,  then  lower  the  trapdoor.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  opened  them  again.  Blades  of  light  filtered  through  the  floorboards.  Her  father  went  on  speaking  to  her.  She  heard  the  sound  of  the  baskets  dragged  across  the  floor.  It  grew  darker.  Her  fa-  ther  asked  her  something.  She  answered.  She  was  lying  on  one  side.  She  had  bent her  legs  and  curled  up,  as  if  she  were  in  her  bed,  ready  to  go  to  sleep.  Her  father  said  something  else,  gently.  Then  she  heard  a  shot,  and  the  sound  of  a  window  breaking.  &quot;ROCA!  COME  OUT,  ROCA.  DON'T  DO  ANYTHING  STUPID  AND  COME  OUT.&quot;  Manuel  Roca  looked  at  his  son.  He  crept  toward  the  child,  careful  not  to  move  into  the  open.  He  reached  for  the  gun  on  the  table.  &quot;Get  away  from  there!  Go  and  hide  in  the  woodshed.  Don't  come  out,  don't  make  asound,  don't  do  anything.  Take  the  gun  and  keep  it  loaded.&quot;  The  child  stared  at  him  and  didn't  move.  &quot;Go  on.  Do  what  I  tell  you.&quot;  The  child  took  a  step  toward  him.  A  hail  of  shots  swept  the  house.  Dust  and  bits  of  glass  slid  along  the  floor.  A  voice  called  from  outside.  &quot;sO,  ROCA,  DO  WE  HAVE  TO  COME  AND  GET  YOU?  IM  SPEAKING  TO  YOU,  ROCA.  DO  I  HAVE  TO  COME  AND  GET  your&quot;  The  child  remained  standing  there.  He  had  taken  his  gun,  but  was  pointing  it  down,  swinging  it  back  and  forth.  &quot;Go,&quot;  said  the  father.  &quot;Did  you  hear  me?Get  out  of  here.&quot;  The  child  took  another  step.  He  seemed  to  be  thinking  that  if  he  knelt  on  the  floor  he  would  be  embraced  by  his  father.  Something  like  that.  The  father  pointed  his  gun  at  his  son.  He  spoke  in  a  low,  fierce  voice.  &quot;Go,  or  I'll  kill  you  myself.&quot;  &quot;LAST  WARNING,  ROCA.&quot;  Gunfire  fanned  the  house,  back  and  forth  like  the  beam  of  a  lighthouse,  patiently.  Nina  closed  her  eyes.  She  flattened  her-  self  against  the  blanket,  and  curled  up  even  tighter,  pulling  her  knees  into  her  chest.  She  felt  the  earth,  cool,  under  her  side,  protecting  her-it  would  not  betray  her.  And  she  felt  her  own  curled-up  body,  folded  around  itself  like  a  shell.  She  liked  this.  She  was  shell  and  animal,  shelter  of  herself-she  was  everything.  Nothing  could  hurt  her  as  long  as  she  re-  mained  in  this  position.  She  reopened  her  eyes,  and  thought,  Don't  move,  you're  happy.  Manuel  Roca  watched  his  son  disap-  pear  behind  the  door.  He  raised  him-  130  self  just  enough  to  glance  out  the  win-  dow.  All  right,  he  thought.  He  moved  to  another  window,  rose,  aimed  quickly,  and  fired.  The  man  in  the  cream-colored  suit  cursed  and  threw  himself  to  the  ground.  &quot;Look  at  this  bastard,&quot;  he  said.  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;The  son  of  a  bitch.&quot;  There  were  two  more  shots  from  the  farmhouse.  Then  the  voice  of  Manuel  Roca.  &quot;FUCK  OFF,  SALINAS.&quot;  The  man  in  the  cream-colored  suit  spit.  &quot;Go  fuck  yourself,  you  bastard.&quot;  He  glanced  to  his  right.  El  Gurre  was  sneer-  ing,  flattened  behind  astack  of  wood.  He  was  holding  a  machine  gun  in  one  hand,  and  with  the  other  he  was  search-  ing  in  his  pocket  for  a  cigarette.  He  was  in  no  hurry.  He  was  small  and  thin.  He  had  a  dirty  hat  and  wore  enormous  mountain  clogs.  He  found  the  cigarette.  He  put  it  between  his  lips.  Everyone  called  him  el  Gurre.  He  began  shooting.  Salinas  crawled  over  beside  el  Gurre.  &quot;How  long  would  it  take  Tito  to  get  in?&quot;  Tito  was  the  boy.  El  Gurre  shrugged  his  shoulders.  He  still  had  the  sneer.  Salinas  looked  back  at  the  farmhouse.  &quot;We'll  never  get  in  from  here.  Either  Tito  does  it  or  we're  in  shit.&quot;  El  Gurre  lighted  the  cigarette.  Then  he  said  that  the  kid  was  quick  and  would  manage  it.  He  knew  how  to  creep  like  a  snake,  and  they  would  have  to  trust  him.  &quot;Now  we'll  make  a  little  distraction.&quot;  Manuel  Roca  saw  el  Gurreemerge  from  behind  the  woodpile  and  throw  himself  to  the  ground.  The  machine-gun  bursts  were  immediate  and  prolonged.  Nina  adjusted  her  skirt  andbegan  elim-  inating  the  imprecisions,  one  by  one.  She  lined  up  her  feet  until  she  felt  her  legs  perfectly  coupled,  the  two  thighs  softly  joined,  the  knees  like  two  cups,  balanced  one  on  the  other,  the  calves  barely  sepa-  rated.  She  checked  the  symmetry  of  her  shoes,  paired  as  if  in  a  shopwindow.  She     THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  liked  the  orderliness.  If  you  are  a  shell,  order  is  important.  If  you  are  a  shell,  ev-  erything  has  to  be  perfect.  She  heard  the  long  pounding  of  a  machine  gun.  And  then  the  voice  of  a  boy.  &quot;Put  down  that  gun,  Roca.&quot;  Manuel  Roca  turned  and  saw  Tito  standing  a  few  yardsaway,  pointing  a  pistol  at  him.  &quot;Don't  move.  Put  down  that  gun.&quot;  Outside  there  was  another  burst  of  gunfire.  The  boy  didn't  move.  Manuel  Roca  didn't  move.  The  two  stood  staring  at  each  other,  not  breathing.  Manuel  Roca  was  trying  to  figure  out  if  the  boy  was  a  child  or  a  soldier,  if  this  was  his  thousandth  time  or  his  first,  if  there  was  a  brain  attached  to  that  gun  or  only  blind  instinct.  The  barrel  of  the  gun  trembled  just  perceptibly,  as  though  making  a  tiny  scribble  in  the  air.  &quot;Stay  calm,  kid,&quot;  he  said.  Slowly  Manuel  Roca  placedthe  rifle  on  the  floor.  With  a  kick  he  sent  it  slid-  ing  into  the  center  of  the  room.  &quot;Everything's  O.K.,  kid,&quot;  he  said.  Tito  didn't  take  his  eyes  off  him.  &quot;Quiet,  Roca,  and  don't  move.&quot;  There  was  a  machine-gun  blast.  El  Gurre  was  working  methodically.  The  boy  waited  until  the  gun  stopped,  and  then  glanced  toward  the  window.  &quot;SALINAS!  TVE  GOT  HIM.  STOP.  PVE  cot  Him.&quot;  And  after  a  moment:  &quot;IT's  TITO.  TVE  GOT  HIM.&quot;  He  looked  for  the  others  in  the  light  from  the  window.  &quot;He's  done  it.  Shit,&quot;  Salinas  said.  El  Gurre  made  a  half  smile,  without  turning.  He  was  observing  the  barrel  of  the  machine  gun  as  if  he  had  carved  it  himself,  in  idle  hours,  from  the  branch  of  an  ash  tree.  &quot;Let's  go,&quot;  Salinas  said.  They  went  around  the  woodpile  and  headed  straight  for  the  house.  They  were  crossing  the  farmyard  when  they  heard  a  shot.  El  Gurre  ran.  He  reached  the  door  and  kicked  it  open.  Three  years  before,  he  had  kicked  open  the  door  of  a  stable  and  seen  his  wife  hanging  from  the  ceil-  ing,  and  his  two  daughters  with  their  heads  shaved,  their  thighs  spattered  with  blood.  Tito  was  pointing  the  gun  toward  a  corner  of  the  room.  &quot;I  had  to  do  it.  He  has  a  gun,&quot;  he  said.  El  Gurre  looked  in  the  corner.  Roca  was  on  his  back.  He  was  bleeding  from  one  arm.  &quot;I  think  he  has  a  gun,&quot;  Tito  said  again.  &quot;Hidden  somewhere.&quot;  El  Gurre  went  over  to  Manuel  Roca.  He  looked  at  the  wound  in  his  arm,  and  thenlooked  him  in  the  face.  &quot;Hello,  Roca,&quot;  he  said.  El  Gurre  put  his  foot  on  Roca's  wounded  arm  and  began  to  crush  it.  Roca  shrieked  with  pain  and  folded  over  on  himself.  The  gun  slid  out  of  his  pants.  El  Gurre  leaned  down  to  pick  it  up.  «You're  a  smart  kid,&quot;  he  said.  Tito  nodded.  His  arm  was  still  extended  in  front  ofhim,  the  gun  in  his  hand  pointing  at  Roca.  He  lowered  it.  His  fin-  gers  relaxed  around  the  trigger.  His  whole  hand  hurt,  as  if  he  had  been  punching  a  wall.  Stay  calm,  he  thought.  Nina  remembered  the  song  that  began  &quot;Count  the  clouds,  the  time  will  come.&quot;  Then  there  was  something  about  an  eagle.  The  song  ended  with  all  the  num-  bers,  one  after  another,  from  one  to  ten.  But  you  could  also  count  to  a  hundred,  or  a  thousand.  Shehad  once  counted  to  two  hundred  and  forty-three.  She  thought  that  now  she  would  get  up  and  go  and  see  what  these  men  wanted.  If  she  couldn't  open  the  trapdoor,  she  could  cry  out,  and  her  father  would  get  her.  But  instead  she  stayed  like  that,  lying  on  her  side,  her  knees  pulled  up  to  her  chest,  her  shoes  balanced  one  on  top  of  the  other,  her  cheek  feeling  the  cool  of  the  earth  through  the  rough  wool  of  the  blanket.  She  began  to  sing  the  song  under  her  breath,  in  a  thin  voice.  &quot;Count  the  clouds,  the  time  will  come.&quot;  &quot;We  meet  again,  Doctor,&quot;  Salinas  said.  Manuel  Roca  looked  at  him  without  speaking.  He  pressed  a  rag  against  the  wound.  They  had  made  him  sit  in  the  middleof  the  room,  on  a  wooden  chest.  El  Gurre  was  behind  him,  somewhere,  gripping  his  machine  gun.  They  had  stationed  the  boy,  Tito,  at  the  door,  out-  side,  and  every  so  often  he  turned  and  looked  into  the  room.  Salinas  walked  back  and  forth,  a  cigarette  between  his  fingers.  Manuel  Roca  looked  up  at  him.  &quot;'Tell  me  what  you  want  and  go.&quot;  &quot;What  I  want?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want,  Salinas?&quot;     &quot;Rumor  has  it,  Minton,  that  you're  after  my  job.&quot;  Salinas  smiled.  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;The  war  is  over.&quot;  Salinas  stood  over  Manuel  Roca.  &quot;The  winner  decides  when  a  war  is  over.&quot;  Manuel  Roca  shook  his  head.  &quot;You  read  too  many  novels,  Salinas.  The  war  is  over,  that's  it,  get  it?&quot;  &quot;Not  yours.  Not  mine,  Doctor.&quot;  Then  Manuel  Roca  began  shouting  that  they  had  better  not  touch  him,  that  they  would  be  caught  and  all  end  up  in  jail,  that  they  would  spend  the  rest  of  their  lives  rotting  in  prison.  Salinas  smiled.  He  was  enjoying  him-  self.  He  crouched  in  front  of  Manuel  Roca  and  told  him  to  be  quiet.  He  put  a  hand  inside  his  jacket  and  took  out  a  pistol.  Roca  needn't  worry  about  them,  he  said,  no  one  would  ever  know  a  thing.  &quot;You  will  disappear  into  a  void,  and  no  one  will  say  a  word.  You're  screwed,  Doctor.&quot;  &quot;You're  mad.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  saying?&quot;  &quot;You're  mad.&quot;  &quot;Say  it  again,  Doctor.  I  like  hearing  you  talk  about  madmen.&quot;  &quot;Go  fuck  yourself,  Salinas.&quot;  Salinas  released  the  safety  on  the  pistol.  &quot;Now  listen  to  me,  Doctor.  Do  you  know  how  many  times  I  fired  a  shot  in  four  years  of  war?  Twice.  I  don't  like  to  shoot,  I  don't  like  weapons,  I've  never  wanted  to  carry  one.  I  fought  my  war  sittingat  a  desk.  Salinas  the  Rat,  you  remember?  That's  what  your  friends  called  me.  I  screwed  them  one  by  one.  I  deciphered  their  coded  messages  and  put  my  spies  on  them.  They  despised  me  and  I  screwed  them.  It  went  like  that  for  four  years,  but  the  truth  is  that  I  fired  only  twice.  Once  was  at  night.  I  shot  into  the  darkness  at  no  one.  The  other  was  the  last  day  of  the  war,  when  I  shot  my  brother.  I'd  gone  into  the  hospital  beforethe  Army  arrived.  We  wanted  to  kill  all  of  you,  but  we  didn't  find  you.  You  had  fled.  You  saw  how  the  wind  was  blowing,  so  you  took  off  your  jailers'  shirts  and  ran,  leaving  everything  behind,  just  as  it  was,  sick  people  every-  where,  even  in  the  corridors.  But  what  I  remember  most  was  that  you  couldn't  hear  a  thing,  not  a  sound,  nothing.  Every  night  of  my  life  I  will  hear  that  absolute  silence.  In  the  beds  were  our  friends  and  we  were  going  to  free  them,  but  they  welcomed  us  in  silence.  They  didn't  have  the  strength  to  cry.  They  no  longer  had  a  desire  to  live.  You  had  re-  duced  them  to  a  state  where  they  didn't  want  to  be  saved,  they  wanted  only  to  die.  &quot;I  found  my  brother  in  a  bed  in  the  chapel.  I  tried  to  speak  to  him,  but  he  didn't  answer.  I  couldn't  tell  if  he  recognized  me.  I  bent  over  him.  I  asked  him  to  tell  me  something,  I  begged  him.  His  eyes  were  wide  open,  his  breath  was  very  slow.  'Please,  a  voice  said,  very  slowly,  with  a  superhuman  ef-  fort.  The  voice  seemed  to  come  from  Hell.  It  had  nothing  to  do  with  his  voice.  My  brother  had  a  ringing  voice.  When  he  spoke  it  was  like  laughter,  but  this  was  something  entirely  different.  'Please,  he  said  slowly,  and  then,  after  a  while,  he  said,  'Kill  me.'  His  eyes  had  no  expres-  sion,  none.  They  were  like  the  eyes  of  someone  else.  His  body  was  motion-  less-only  this  very  slow  breath.  &quot;I  said  I  would  take  him  away,  that  it  was  all  over  and  I  would  take  care  of  everything.  What  could  I  do?  How  could  I  take  him  away  from  there?  I  looked  around  for  help.  I  couldn't  move.  I  don't  know  how  much  time  passed.  At  a  certain  point  I  turned  and  saw  el  Blanco.  He  was  standing  beside  a  bed,  with  a  machine  gun  on  his  shoul-  der,  and  crushing  a  pillowover  the  face  of  a  boy.  El  Blanco  was  crying  and  crushing  the  pillow.  In  the  silent  chapel  only  his  sobs  could  be  heard.  The  boy  wasn't  moving,  he  didn't  make  a  sound,  but  el  Blanco  was  sobbing,  like  a  child.  Then  he  took  away  thepillow  and  with  his  fingers  closed  the  boy's  eyes,  and  he  looked  at  me.  I  wanted  to  say,  What  are  you  doing?&quot;  but  nothing  came  out  of  my  mouth.  Then  someone  appeared  and  said  that  the  Army  was  coming,  and  we  had  to  get  out  of  there.  Others  were  running  along  the  corridors,  and  I  took  the  pillow  from  under  my  brother's  head  and  gently  placed  it  on  his  face  and  began  to  press  it,  I  pressed  down  on  the  pillow,  and  felt  the  bones  of  my  brother's  face,  there  under  my  hands.  You  cannot  ask  a  man  to  do  such  a  thing.  At  some  point  I  stopped.  I  pulled  the  pillow  away.  My  brother  was  still  breathing,  but  it  was  like  something  digging  up  air  from  the  depths  of  Hell.  It  was  terrible-the  eyes  unmoving,  and  that  rattle.  He  looked  at  me.  I  was  screaming.  I  heard  my  voice  screaming,  but  as  if  from  a  distance,  like  a  fading  lament.  I  was  still  screaming  when  I  noticed  el  Blanco  again.  He  was  beside  me,  offering  me  a  gun,  and  I  took  it  and  placed  the  barrel  against  my  brother's  forehead  and,  still  scream-  ing,  Ifired.  &quot;Look  at  me,  Roca.  I  said  look  at  me.  In  the  whole  war  I  fired  twice.  The  first  time  I  fired  and  it  was  night.  The  second  time  I  shot  my  brother  at  close  range.  I  will  shoot  one  more  time,  and  that  will  be  the  last.&quot;  Roca  began  to  shout.  &quot;I  had  nothing  to  do  with  it!&quot;  &quot;You  had  nothing  to  do  with  it?&quot;  &quot;T  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  hospital.&quot;  &quot;What  the  hell  are  you  saying?&quot;  &quot;I  did  what  they  told  me  to  do.&quot;  «You  ...&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  there  when  .  ..&quot;  &quot;What  the  fuck  are  you  saying  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  swear  it,  I  ...&quot;  &quot;That  was  your  hospital,  you  bastard.&quot;  &quot;My  hospital?&quot;  &quot;That  was  your  hospital,  you  were  the  doctor  who  was  taking  care  of  them,  you  killed  them,  you  broke  them,  they  were  sent  to  you  and  you  broke  them.&quot;  &quot;I  never  ...&quot;  &quot;SHUT  UP!&quot;  &quot;I  swear  to  you,  Salinas  .  ..&quot;  &quot;sHUT  UP!&quot;  Salinas  placed  the  gun  against  one  of  Roca's  knees.  Then  he  fired.  The  knee  exploded  like  a  piece  of  fruit.  Roca  fell  back  and  curled  on  the  ground,  shrieking  with  pain.  Salinas  was  standing  over  him.  He  aimed  the  gun  at  him  and  went  on  shouting.  &quot;TLL  KILL  YOU,  UNDERSTAND?  PLL  KILL  YOU,  PM  GOING  TO  KILL  YOU!&quot;  Salinas  was  shouting.  His  cream-  colored  suit  was  spattered  with  blood.  He  was  shouting  in  a  strange,  harsh  voice,  as  if  he  were  crying.  Or  as  if  he  were  no  longer  capable  of  breathing.  He  was  shouting  that  he  would  murder  him.  Then  an  impossible  voice  said  something  softly.  &quot;Go  away.&quot;  They  turned  andsaw  a  boy,  stand-  ing  on  the  other  side  of  the  room.  He  was  holding  a  rifle  and  had  it  pointed  at  them.  He  said  again,  softly:  &quot;Go  away.&quot;  &quot;Who  the  hell  ...&quot;  &quot;It's  the  son,  Salinas.&quot;  &quot;What  the  hell  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;It's  Roca's  [REDACTED];  el  Gurre  said.  Salinas  cursed.  &quot;There  wasn't  sup-  posed  to  be  anyone  here!&quot;  He  didn't  know  where  to  point  the  gun.  He  looked  at  el  Gurre,  and  then  at  the  child  with  the  rifle,  and  shouted  that  the  boy  would  not  get  out  of  there  alive  if  he  didn't  put  down  that  damn  gun  now.  The  boy  remained  silent  and  kept  the  gun  raised.  Then  Salinas  stopped.  His  voice  Z  came  out  calm  and  fierce.  He  said  to  the  %  boy  that  now  he  knew  what  sort  of  a  2  ELDON  man  his  father  was.  Now  he  knew  that  he  was  an  assassin,  who  had  murdered  dozens  of  people.  Sometimes  he  poi-  soned  them  little  by  little,  with  his  med-  icine,  but  others  he  killed  by  cutting  open  their  chests  and  then  leaving  them  to  die.  With  his  own  eyes,  he  said,  he  had  seen  boys  leave  that  hospital  with  their  brains  blown  out.  They  could  hardly  walk,  they  couldn't  speals-they  were  like  idiots.  He  told  the  child  that  his  father  was  called  the  Hyena.  It  was  his  friends  who  called  him  the  Hyena,  and  they  laughed  when  they  said  it.  Roca  was  on  the  floor  gasping.  He  began  to  murmur  quietly,  &quot;Help,&quot;  as  if  from  far  away-&quot;Help,  help,  help.&quot;  Salinas  didn't  look  at  him.  He  went  on  talking  to  the  child,  saying  that  things  were  like  that,  and  that  it  was  too  late  to  do  any-  thing,  even  with  a  gun  in  your  hands.  He  looked  the  child  in  the  eyes  and  asked  him,  with  an  infinite  weariness,  if  he  understood,  if  he  truly  understood  who  this  man  was.  With  one  hand  he  indicated  Roca.  The  boy  answered:  &quot;He's  my  father.&quot;  Then  he  fired.  A  single  shot.  Into  emptiness.  El  Gurre  responded  instinctively,  with  a  machine-gun  burst,  and  the  child  was  lifted  up  off  the  floor  and  hurled  against  the  wall,  like  a  bird  shot  in  mid-flight.  Salinas  threw  himself  to  the  floor  and  landed  next  to  Roca.  For  a  moment  the  two  men  looked  at  each  other.  From  Roca'sthroat  came  a  dim,  horrible  howl.  Salinas  slid  away  and  rolled  onto  his  back  to  get  Roca's  eyes  off  him.  He  began  to  tremble.  He  couldn't  keep  his  hands  still,  his  legs,  nothing.  There  was  only  the  horrible  howl.  Salinas  said  faintly:  &quot;Make  him  stop.&quot;  His  teeth  were  chattering,  and  as  he  spoke  he  was  trying  to  stop  them.  His  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  ceiling.  A  line  of  dark  wood  beams.  Old.  &quot;Make  him  stop,&quot;  he  said.  Roca  howled,  his  mouth  hideously  wide,  and  el  Gurre  stuck  the  barrel  of  the  gun  in  his  throat.  Roca  kept  on  howling,  against  the  warm  metal  of  the  barrel.  El  Gurre  fired.  A  short  burst.  Dry.  The  last  of  his  war.  &quot;Make  him  stop,&quot;  Salinas  saidagain.  Nina  heard  the  silence  and  it  frightened  her.  She  slipped  her  hands  between  her  legs.  She  curled  up  even  tighter,  bringing  her  knees  toward  her  head.  It  must  be  over  by  now,  she  thought.  Her  father  would  come  to  get  her  and  they  would  not  speak  of  this  night  again.  Soon  they  would  forget  about  it.  She  thought  this  because  she  was  a  child  and  still  couldn't  know.  &quot;The  girl,&quot;  said  el  Gurre.  He  held  Salinas  by  the  arm,  to  make  him  stand  up.  He  saidto  him  quietly:  'The  girl.&quot;  Salinas's  gaze  was  blank.  &quot;What  girl?&quot;  &quot;Roca's  daughter.  If  the  boywas  here  she  probably  is,  too.&quot;  El  Gurre  nodded  at  Tito,  directing  him  toward  the  kitchen.  When  Tito  passed  the  boy  on  the  floor,  he  bent  down  for  an  instant  and  closed  his  eyes.  Not  like  a  father.  Like  someone  who  turns  off  the  light  as  he  is  leaving  a  room.  Tito  thoughtof  his  own  father's  eyes.  One  day  some  men  had  knocked  on  the  door  of  his  house.  Tito  had  never  seen  them  before.  They  said  they  had  a  message  and  handed  him  a  canvas  sack.  He  opened  it  and  inside  were  the  eyes  of  his  father.  Take  care  which  side  you  stand  on,  kid,  they  said,  and  they  went  away.  At  the  other  end  of  the  kitchen  was  a  drawn  curtain.  Tito  released  the  safety  of  his  pistol  and  parted  the  cur-  tain.  Behind  it  was  a  small  room.  Ev-  erything  was  in  disarray.  Chairs  over-  turned,  trunks,  tools,  and  some  baskets  of  half-rotted  fruit.  There  was  a  strong  smell  of  food  gone  bad.  And  of  damp-  ness.  The  dust  on  the  floor  looked  as  if  someone  had  dragged  hisfeet  through  it.  El  Gurre  was  on  the  other  side  of  the  house,  beating  the  walls  with  his  machine  gun,  looking  for  hidden  doors.  Tito  moved  one  of  the  fruit  baskets.  He  made  out  the  line  of  a  trapdoor.  He  hit  the  floor  hardwith  one  boot,  to  hear  what  sound  it  made.  He  moved  two  more  baskets.  It  was  a  small  trapdoor,  carefully  cut  out.  Tito  looked  up.  Through  a  small  window  he  saw  that  it  was  dark  outside.  He  hadn't  even  realized  that  it  was  night.  It  was  time  to  go.  He  knelt  on  the  floor  and  lifted  the  trapdoor.  There  was  a  girl  inside,  curled  up  on  her  side,  her  hands  hidden  between  her  thighs,  her  head  bent  forward  slightly,     toward  her  knees.  Her  eyes  were  open.  Tito  pointed  his  gun  at  her.  &quot;Salinas!&quot;  he  shouted.  The  child  had  dark  eyes,  oddly  shaped.  She  looked  at  him  without  ex-  pression.  Her  lips  were  half  closed  and  she  was  breathing  calmly.  Tito  felt  a  sensation  he'd  had  a  thousand  times,  finding  that  exact  position,  between  warm  sheets  or  under  the  afternoon  sun  of  childhood.  Knees  folded,  hands  be-  tween  the  legs,  head  bent  forward  slightly.  The  child's  skin  was  white,  and  the  outline  of  her  lips  perfect.  Her  legs  stuck  out  from  under  ashort  red  skirt,  as  if  in  a  drawing.  It  was  all  so  orderly.  Exact.  The  girl  turned  her  head  away  and  bent  it  forward  slightly,  closing  the  circle.  Tito  realized  that  no  one  had  answered  him.  He  could  hear  el  Gurre  banging  with  his  gun  against  the  walls  of  the  house.  A  muted  me-  ticulous  sound.  He  lowered  the  trap-  door.  Slowly.  He  remained  there,  on  his  knees,  to  see  if  he  could  see  the  child  through  the  cracks  in  the  floor.  He  would  have  liked  to  think.  But  he  couldn't.  He  got  up.  He  put  the  baskets  back.  His  heart  was  pounding  against  his  temples.  They  went  out  into  the  night  like  drunks.  El  Gurre  supported  Salinas,  pushing  him  forward,  Tito  walking  be-  hind  them.  Somewhere,  theold  Mer-  cedes  was  waiting  for  them.  They  went  a  dozen  yards  or  so  without  exchanging  a  word.  Then  Salinas  said  something  to  el  Gurre,  and  el  Gurre  went  back  toward  the  farm-  house.  He  seemed  uncer-  tain,  but  he  went.  Salinas  leaned  on  Tito  and  told  him  to  keep  walking.  They  skirted  the  woodpile  and  left  the  road  to  take  a  path  that  went  through  the  fields.  There  was  a  deep  silence,  butTito  was  unable  to  say  thesentence  that  he  had  in  mind  and  had  decided  to  say.  &quot;There  isstill  a  child  in  there.&quot;  He  was  tired,  and  there  was  too  much  silence.  Salinas  stopped.  He  was  shak-  ing  and  it  was  an  enormous  effort  to  walk.  Tito  said  something  softly,  then  he  turned  and  looked  back.  E1  Gurre  was  running  toward  them.  Behind  him  the  farmhouse  lighted  the  darkness.  Flames  shot  up  and  a  cloud  of  black  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  133  smoke  rose  slowly  in  the  night.  Tito  moved  away  from  Salinas  and  stood  petrified,  watching.  El  Gurre  joined  them.  &quot;Let's  go,  kid,&quot;  he  said.  But  Tito  didn't  move.  &quot;What  the  hell  did  you  do?&quot;  he  said.  El  Gurre  was  dragging  Salinas  away.  They  had  to  go,  he  said.  But  Tito  grabbed  him  by  the  neck  and  shouted  in  his  face,  &quot;WHAT  THE  HELL  DID  YOU  Do?&quot;  &quot;Calm  down,  kid,&quot;  said  el  Gurre.  But  Tito  wouldn't  stop.  He  began  shouting  louder  and  louder,  WHAT  THE  HELL  DID  YOU  DO?  shaking  el  Gurre  like  a  puppet.  WHAT  THE  HELL  DID  YOU  DO?-until  Salinas,  too,  began  shout,  ing:  &quot;STOP  IT,  KID.&quot;  Three  madmen,  shouting  at  each  other,  abandoned  on  a  dark  stage.  Finally  they  had  to  drag  Tito  away.  The  glare  of  the  fire  lighted  up  the  night.  They  crossed  a  field  and  went  down  to  the  road,  following  the  streambed.  When  they  came  in  sight  of  theold  Mercedes,  el  Gurre  put  a  hand  on  Tito's  shoulder  and  said  to  him  softly  that  he  had  done  a  fine  job,  and  that  it  was  all  over  now.  But  Tito  wouldn't  stop  repeat-  ing  the  words  over  and  over.  He  didn't  shout.  He  spoke  softly,  in  a  child's  voice.  What  the  hell  have  we  done.  What  the  hell  have  we  done.  What  the  hell  have  we  done.  The  old  farmhouse  of  Mato  Rujo  stood  blankly  in  the  countryside,  carved  in  red  flame  against  the  dark  night,  the  only  stain  in  the  empty  outline  of  the  plain.  hree  days  later  a  man  arrived,  on  horseback,  at  the  farmhouse  of  Mato  Rujo.  He  was  filthy,  dressed  in  rags.  The  horse  was  an  old  nag.  It  had  something  in  its  eyes,  a  dripping  yel-  low  liquid,  and  flies  were  buzzing  around  it.  The  walls  of  the  farmhouse  stood  blackened  and  useless,  coals  in  the  mid-  dle  of  an  enormous  quenched  brazier.  They  were  like  the  last  remaining  teeth  in  the  mouth  of  an  old  man.  The  fire  had  even  consumed  a  large  oak  that  for  years  had  shaded  the  house.  The  man  made  a  half  circle  around  the  farm.  He  went  to  the  well  and  with-  out  getting  off  the  horse  unhooked  the  bucket  and  let  it  fall.  He  heard  the  slap  of  metal  on  water.  He  looked  over  at  the  farmhouse.  On  the  ground,  leaning  against  what  remained  of  a  wall,  sat  a  child.  She  was  staring  at  him,  with  two  motionless  eyes  shining  ina  smoke-  grimed  face.  Shewas  wearing  a  short  red  skirt.  She  had  scratches  all  over.  Or  wounds.  The  man  pulled  up  the  bucket  from  the  well.  The  water  was  blackish.  He  stirred  it  with  a  tin  dipper,  but  the  black-  ness  remained.  He  refilled  the  dipper,  brought  it  to  his  lips,  and  took  a  long  drink.  He  looked  again  into  the  water  in  the  bucket.  He  spit  into  it.  Then  he  set  everything  on  the  edge  of  the  well  and  pressed  his  heels  into  the  belly  of  the  horse.  He  came  up  to  the  child.  She  raised  her  head  to  look  at  him.  The  man  stud-  ied  her.  Eyes,  lips,  hair.  Then  he  held  out  a  hand.  She  stood,  grabbed  the  man's  hand,  and  pulled  herself  up  to  the  sad-  dle,  behind  him.  The  old  nag  adjusted  its  hooves  to  the  new  weight  and  tossed  its  head.  The  man  made  a  strange  noise,  and  the  horse  calmed  down.  As  they  rode  away  from  the  farm-  house,  at  a  slow  trot,  under  a  fierce  sun,  the  girl  let  her  head  fall  forward  and,  with  her  forehead  against  the  man's  sweaty  back,  slept.  he  signal  changed  to  green  and  the  woman  crossed  the  street.  She  looked  down  as  she  walked,  because  it  had  just  stopped  raining  and  in  the  hol-  lows  of  the  asphalt  there  were  puddles  that  reminded  her  of  the  sudden  rain  of  early  spring.  She  had  an  elegant  gait,  dictated  by  the  tight  black  skirt.  She  saw  the  puddles  and  avoided  them.  When  she  reached  the  other  side  she  stopped.  People  passed  by,  the  crowds  of  late  afternoon  on  the  way  home.  The  woman  liked  to  feel  the  city  trickling  around  her,  so  she  stood  for  a  while,  in  the  middle  of  the  sidewalk,  inexplicable,  like  a  woman  who  had  been  left  there,  abruptly,  by  her  lover.  She  decided  to  turn  right,  and  fell  in  with  the  collective  promenade.  She  walked  tall  and  confi-  dent,  with  a  youthful  bearing  in  spite  of  her  age.  She  had  white  hair,  gathered  at  the  nape  and  held  by  a  dark  comb,  like  a  girl's.  She  stopped  at  the  window  of  an  ap-  134  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  pliance  shop  and  stood  staring  at  a  wall  of  televisions  broadcasting  a  multipli-  cation  of  the  samenews  commentator.  Each  was  tinted  a  different  color,  which  fascinated  her.  A  film  began  of  some  cities  at  war  and  she  resumed  her  walk.  She  crossed  Calle  Medina  and  then  the  little  Plaza  del  Perpetuo  Socorro.  When  she  arrived  at  the  Galeria  Florencia,  she  stopped.  The  grand  entrance  was  marked  by  an  iron  arch.  She  took  a  few  steps  inside,  then  stopped  a  man.  She  ex-  cused  herself,  and  asked  him  what  the  place  was  called.  The  man  told  her.  She  thanked  him  and  said  that  he  would  have  a  most  beautiful  evening.  The  man  smiled.  She  walked  through  the  Galeria  Flo-  rencia  and  spotted  a  small  kiosk,  twenty  yards  away.  It  was  one  of  those  kiosks  where  lottery  tickets  are  sold.  She  con-  tinued  walking,  but  when  she  was  a  few  steps  from  the  kiosk  she  stopped.  The  manwho  sold  the  tickets  was  sitting  on  a  stool,  reading  a  newspaper.  He  had  it  resting  on  something  in  front  of  him.  All  the  sides  of  the  kiosk  were  of  glass,  ex-  cept  the  one  that  was  against  the  wall  of  the  Galeria.  The  woman  approached  and  leaned  toward  the  window.  &quot;Good  evening,&quot;  she  said.  The  man  raised  his  eyes  from  the  newspaper.  He  was  about  to  say  some-  thing,  but  when  he  saw  the  woman's  face  he  stopped.  He  remained  like  that,  look-  ing  at  her.  &quot;I  want  to  buy  a  ticket.&quot;  The  man  nodded  his  head  yes.  'Have  you  been  waiting  a  long  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  &quot;No,  why?&quot;  The  man  shook  his  head,  continuing  to  stare  at  her.  &quot;Nothing,  excuse  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  want  a  ticket,&quot;  she  said.  The  man  turned  and  stuck  his  hand  up  among  the  strips  of  tickets  hanging  behind  him.  The  woman  pointed  to  one,  longer  than  the  others.  &quot;That  one  there.  Can  you  take  it  from  that  strip?&quot;  &quot;This  one?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  The  man  tore  off  the  ticket.  He  glanced  at  the  number  and  nodded  ap-  proval.  He  placed  it  on  the  wooden  counter.  &quot;It's  a  good  number.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  The  man  didn't  answer,  because  he     was  looking  at  the  woman's  face,  as  if  he  were  searching  for  something.  &quot;Did  you  say  it's  a  good  number?&quot;  The  man  lowered  his  gaze  to  the  ticket:  &quot;Yes,  it  has  two  eights  in  a  sym-  metrical  position  and  has  equal  sums.&quot;  &quot;What  does  that  mean?&quot;  &quot;If  you  draw  a  line  through  the  middle  of  the  number,  the  sum  of  the  figures  on  the  right  is  the  same  as  those  on  the  left.  Generally  that's  a  good  sign.&quot;  &quot;And  how  do  you  know?  &quot;It's  my  job.&quot;  The  woman  smiled.  &quot;You're  right.&quot;  She  placed  her  money  on  the  counter.  «You're  not  blind,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  The  man  began  laughing.  &quot;No,  I'm  not.&quot;  &quot;It's  odd  ...&quot;  &quot;Why  should  I  be  blind?&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  people  who  sell  lottery  tickets  always  are.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  not  always,  but  often.  I  think  people  like  it  that  they're  blind.&quot;  &quot;In  what  sense?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  I  imagine  it  has  to  do  with  the  business  of  fortune  being  blind.&quot;  The  woman  laughed.  Shehad  a  nice  laugh,  with  no  sign  of  age  in  it.  &quot;Usually  they're  very  old,  and  they  look  around  like  tropical  birds  in  the  window  of  a  pet  shop.&quot;  She  said  it  with  great  assurance.  Then  she  added:  &quot;You  are  different.&quot;  The  man  said  that  in  fact  he  was  not  blind.  But  he  was  old.  &quot;How  old  are  you?&quot;  the  woman  asked.  &quot;I'm  seventy-two,&quot;  said  the  man.  Then  he  added:  &quot;This  is  a  good  job  for  me,  I  have  no  problems.&quot;  The  woman  smiled.  &quot;Of  course.  1  didn't  mean  that.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  job  I  like.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  of  it.&quot;  She  took  the  ticket  and  put  it  in  her  bag.  Then  she  turned  around  for  an  in-  stant  as  if  she  had  to  check  something,  or  wanted  to  see  if  there  were  people  waiting  behind  her.  &quot;I  wondered  if  you  might  like  to  come  and  have  something  to  drink  with  me.&quot;  The  man  had  just  put  the  money  into  the  cash  drawer.  He  stopped  with  his  hand  in  midair.  &quot;Me&quot;&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;I  ...  I  can't.  I  have  to  keep  the  kiosk  open,  I  can't  go  now,  I  have  no  one  here  ...&quot;  &quot;Just  a  glass.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.  Really  I  can't  do  it.&quot;  The  woman  nodded,  as  if  she  had  understood.  But  then  she  leaned  toward  the  man  and  said:  &quot;Come  with  me.&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Come  with  me,&quot;  she  repeated.  Theman  foldedthe  newspaper  and  got  off  the  stool.  He  removed  his  glasses  and  put  them  in  a  case  of  gray  cloth.  Then,  very  carefully,  he  began  to  close  the  kiosk.  The  woman  waited,  standing,  calmly,  as  if  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  her.  Every  so  often  someone  passed  by  and  turned  to  look  ather.  Because  she  seemed  to  be  alone,  and  was  notyoung,    andwas  beautiful.  The  man  turned  off  the  light.  He  pulled  down  the  little  shutter  and  fastened  it  to  the  ground  with  a  padlock.  &quot;I'm  finished.&quot;  The  woman  smiled  at  him.  &quot;Do  you  know  where  we  could  go?&quot;  &quot;Over  here.  There's  a  café  where  one  can  sit  quietly.&quot;  They  went  into  the  café,  found  a  table,  in  a  corner,  and  sat  down  across  from  one  another.  They  ordered  two  glasses  of  wine.  The  woman  asked  the  waiter  if  he  had  cigarettes.  So  they  be-  gan  to  smoke.  They  spoke  of  ordinary  things,  and  of  people  who  win  the  lot-  tery.  The  man  said  that  usually  they  couldn't  keep  the  secret,  and  the  funny  thing  was  that  the  first  person  they  told  was  always  a  child.  Probably  there  was  a  moral  in  that,  but  he  had  never  managed  to  figure  out  what  it  was.  The  woman  said  something  about  stories  that  have  a  moral  and  stories  that  don't.  They  went  on  a  little  like  that,  talking.  Then  he  said  that  he  knew  who  shewas,  and  why  she  had  come.  The  woman  said  nothing.  &quot;Many  years  ago,  you  saw  three  men  kill  your  father,  in  cold  blood.  I'm  the  only  one  of  the  three  who's  still  alive.  You  came  here  tofind  me.&quot;  He  spoke  calmly.  &quot;Now  you've  found  me.&quot;  Then  they  were  silent,  because  he  had  no  more  to  say.  C  hen  I  was  a  child  my  name  was  Nina,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  ev-  erything  ended  that  day.  No  one  calls  me  by  that  name  anymore.  I  liked  it:  Nina.  Now  I  have  many  names.  It's  different.  &quot;Inthe  beginning  I  remember  a  sort  of  orphanage.  Nothing  else.  Then  a  man  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  whose  name  was  Ricardo  Uribe  came  and  took  me  away  with  him.  He  was  the  pharmacist  in  a  little  town  deep  in  the  countryside.  He  had  no  wife  or  rela-  tives,  nothing.  He  told  everyone  that  I  was  his  daughter.  He  had  moved  there  a  few  months  earlier.  Everyone  believed  him.  In  the  daytime  I  stayed  in  the  rear  of  the  pharmacy.  Between  customers  he  taught  me.  I  don't  know  why,  but  he  didn't  like  me  to  go  out  alone.  'What  there  is  to  learn  you  can  learn  from  me,'  he  said.  I  was  eleven.  At  night  he  sat  on  the  sofa  and  made  me  lie  beside  him.  I  rested  my  head  in  his  lap  and  listened  to  him.  He  told  strange  stories  about  the  war.  He  would  caress  my  hair,  back  and  forth,  slowly.  Sometimes  I  felt  his  sex,  under  the  material  of  his  pants.  Then  he  would  kiss  my  forehead  and  let  me  go  to  sleep.  I  had  a  room  to  myself.  I  helped  him  keep  the  shop  clean  and  the  house.  I  washed  and  cooked.  He  seemed  a  good  man.  &quot;One  night  he  leaned  over  and  kissed  me  on  the  mouth.  He  went  on  kissing  me,  like  that,  and  he  stuck  his  hands  under  my  skirt.  I  did  nothing.  And  then,  suddenly,  he  pulled  away  from  me,  and  began  to  cry  and  asked  me  to  forgive  him.  He  seemed  terrified.  I  didn't  understand.  A  few  days  later  he  said  that  he  had  found  me  a  fiancé.  A  young  man  from  Rio  Galvan,  a  town  nearby.  He  was  a  mason.  I  would  marry  him  as  soon  as  I  was  old  enough.  I  went  to  meet  him  the  following  Sunday,  in  the  square.  He  was  a  handsome  boy,  tall  and  thin,  very  thin.  He  moved  slowly,  maybe  he  was  sick,  or  something  like  that.  We  introduced  our-  selves,  and  I  went  home.&quot;  The  man  thought  that  the  way  she  spoke  was  strange.  As  if  it  were  a  gesture  that  she  wasn't  used  to.  Or  as  if  it  were  not  her  language.  As  she  searched  for  words  she  stared  into  space.  &quot;A  few  months  later,  on  a  winter  eve-  ning,  Uribe  went  out  to  the  Riviera,  a  sort  of  tavern  where  men  gambled.  Uribe  went  every  week,  always  the  same  day,  Friday.  That  night  he  played  until  very  late.  Then  he  found  himself  with  four  jacks  in  his  hand,  before  a  pot  with  more  money  than  he  would  see  in  a  year.  The  game  was  now  between  him  and  the  Count  of  Torrelavid.  The  others  had  put  in  a  little  money  and  then  had  let  it  go.  But  the  Count  was  stubborn.  He  kept  raising  the  bet.  Uribe  was  sure  of  his  cards  and  stayed  with  him.  They  reached  the  point  where  the  players  lose  any  sense  of  reality.  And  then  the  Count  put  his  fazenda  of  Belsito  in  the  pot.  In  the  tavern  everything  came  to  a  halt.  Do  you  gamble?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  the  man.  &quot;Then  I  don't  think  you'll  understand.&quot;  &quot;Try  me.&quot;  &quot;You  won't  understand.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter.&quot;  &quot;Everything  came  to  a  halt.  And  there  was  a  silence  you  won't  understand.&quot;  The  woman  explained  that  the  {}{z-  zendaof  Belsito  was  the  most  beautiful  fazenda  in  that  land.  An  avenue  of  or-  ange  trees  led  to  the  house  at  the  top  of  a  hill,  and  from  there,  from  the  house,  you  could  see  the  ocean.  &quot;Uribe  said  that  he  had  nothing  to  bet  that  was  worth  Belsito.  And  he  placed  his  cards  on  the  table.  The  Count  said  that  Uribe  could  always  bet  the  phar-  macy,  and  he  began  to  laugh  like  a  lu-  natic,  and  some  of  the  men  who  were  there  began  to  laugh  with  him.  Uribe  smiled.  He  still  had  a  hand  over  his  cards.  As  if  to  say  goodbye  to  them.  The  Count  became  serious  again,  leaned  for-  ward,  across  the  table,  and  said:  'You  have  a  lovely  child,  though.&quot;  &quot;Uribe  didn't  understand  right  away.  &quot;  'Belsito  against  your  daughter,  Uribe.  It's  an  honest  offer.  &quot;And  on  the  table,  right  under  Uribe's  nose,  he  placed  his  five  cards,  face  down.  &quot;Uribe  stared,  without  touching  them.  He  said  something  in  a  whis-  per,  but  no  one  ever  told  me  what  it  was.  Then  he  slid  his  cards  toward  the  Count.  &quot;The  Count  came  and  got  me  that  night.  He  did  something  unpredictable.  He  waited  sixteen  months,  and  when  I  was  fourteen  he  married  me.  I  gave  him  three  sons.  &quot;Men  are  difficult  to  understand.  The  Count,  before  that  night,  had  seen  me  only  once.  He  was  sitting  in  the  café  and  I  was  crossing  the  square.  He  had  asked  someone:  'Who  is  that  girl&quot;  And  they  told  him.&quot;  1  Outside  it  was  raining  again,  and  the  ‘  café  had  filled  up.  One  had  to  ‘  speak  loudly,  to  be  understood.  Or  sit  closer.  The  man  said  to  the  woman  that  |  she  had  an  odd  way  of  talking.  She  seemed  to  be  telling  the  story  of  some-  one  else's  life.  &quot;It's  as  if  nothing  matters  to  you.&quot;  The  woman  said  that,  on  the  con-  trary,  everything  mattered  to  her,  too  much.  She  said  that  she  felt  nostalgic  for  every  single  thing  that  had  happened  to  her.  But  she  said  it  ina  hard  voice,  without  melancholy.  Then  the  man  was  silent,  looking  at  the  people  around  them.  He  thoughtof  Salinas.  He  had  been  found  dead  in  his  bed  one  morning,  two  years  after  that  business  with  Roca.  Something  with  his  heart,  they  said.  There  was  a  rumor  that  his  doctor  had  poisoned  him,  a  little  every  day,  slowly,  for  months.  A  slow  agony.  Horrifying.  The  doctor's  name  was  Astarte.  He  had  made  a  little  money,  during  the  war,  from  a  preparation  that  cured  fevers  and  infections.  He  had  in-  vented  it  himself,  with  the  help  of  a  pharmacist.  The  preparation  was  called  Botrin.  The  pharmacist  was  called  Ri-  cardo  Uribe.  At  the  time  he  worked  in  the  capital.  When  the  war  was  over  he  had  had  some  trouble  with  the  police.  They  found  his  name  on  the  list  of  sup-  pliers  for  the  hospital  of  the  Hyena.  Then  someone  came  forward  and  said  he  had  been  working  there.  But  many  also  said  that  he  was  a  good  man.  He  |  presented  himself  to  the  investigators  and  explained  everything,  and  when  they  let  him  go  he  took  his  things  and  went  away  to  a  small  town  buried  in  the  countryside,  in  the  south.  He  bought  a  pharmacy.  He  lived  alone  with  a  small  daughter  he  called  Dulce.  He  said  the  mother  had  died  many  years  earlier.  Thus  he  hid  Nina,  the  surviving  daugh-  ter  of  Manuel  Roca.  The  man  looked  around  without  see-  ing  anything.  He  was  in  his  thoughts.  The  savagery  of  children,  he  was  thinking.  We    have  turned  over  the  earth  so  violently  that  we  have  reawakened  the  savagery  of  children.  He  looked  back  at  the  woman.  &quot;Is  it  true  that  they  called  you  Tito?&quot;  she  asked.  The  man  nodded  yes.  &quot;Had  you  ever  met  my  father  before?&quot;  &quot;I  knew  who  he  was.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  true  that  you  were  the  first  to  shoot  him?&quot;  The  man  shook  his  head.  &quot;What  dif-  ference  does  it  make  .  ..&quot;  &quot;You  were  twenty.  You  were  the  youngest.  You  had  been  fighting  for  only  a  year.  El  Gurre  treated  you  like  a  son.&quot;  Then  the  woman  asked  if  he  remembered.  The  man  stared  at  her.  And  only  in  that  instant,  finally,  did  he  see  again,  in  her  face,  the  face  of  that  child,  lying  there,  impeccable  and  right,  perfect.  He  saw  those  eyesin  these,  and  that  extraor-  dinary  strength  in  the  calmof  this  tired  beauty.  The  child:  she  had  turned  and  looked  at  him.  The  child:  now  she  was  there.  How  dizzying  time  can  be.  Where  am  I?  the  man  wondered.  Here  or  there?  Have  I  ever  been  in  a  moment  that  was  not  this  one?  The  man  said  that  he  remembered.  That  he  had  done  nothing  else,  for  years.  &quot;For  years  I  asked  myself  what  I  ought  to  do.  But  the  truth  is  that  I  never  was  ableto  tell  anyone.  I  never  told  any-  one  that  you  were  there  that  night.  You  may  not  believe  me,  but  it's  so.  At  first,  obviously,  I  didn't  say  anything  because  I  was  afraid.  But  time  passed,  and  it  be-  came  something  else.  No  one  thought  about  the  war  anymore.  People  wanted  to  look  ahead,  they  no  longer  cared  about  what  had  happened.  I  began  to  think  that  it  was  better  to  forget  every-  thing.  Let  it  go.  At  a  certain  point,  how-  ever,  it  emerged  that  Roca's  daughter  |  was  alive,  she  was  hidden  in  a  village  in  the  south.  It  was  incredible  that  she  had  come  out  of  that  inferno  alive,  but  with  children  you  can  never  say.  Finally  someonesaw  the  girl  and  swore  that  it  was  really  her.  And  then  I  realized  that  I  would  never  be  free  of  that  night.  Nei-  ther  I  nor  the  others.  I  began  to  ask  myself  what  she  might  have  seen  and  heard.  And  if  she  could  remember  my  face.  Who  knows  what  happens  in  the  mind  of  a  child.  Adults  have  a  memory,  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  and  a  sense  of  justice,  and  often  they  have  a  taste  for  revenge.  But  a  child?  I  convinced  myself  that  nothing  would  happen.  Then  Salinas  died.  In  that  strange  way.&quot;  The  woman  was  listening,  motionless.  He  asked  if  she  wanted  him  to  go  on.  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  came  out  that  Uribe  had  some-  thing  to  do  with  it.  It  may  have  been  a  coincidence,  but  certainly  it  was  odd.  Little  by  little  everyone  was  persuaded  that  the  child  knew  something.  It's  dif-  ficult  to  understand  now,  but  those  were  strange  times.  The  country  was  going  forward,  beyond  the  war,  at  an  astonish-  ing  speed,  forgetting  everything.  But  there  was  a  part  of  the  country  that  had  never  got  over  the  war,  and  was  unable  to  fit  into  the  new  happy  world.  I  was  one  of  those.  We  all  were.  For  us  noth-  ing  had  ended.  And  that  child  was  a  danger.  We  talked  about  it  a  lot.  So  fi-  nally  it  was  decided  that  somehow  the  child  should  be  eliminated.  I  know  it  seems  mad,  but  in  reality  it  was  very  logical.  They  decided  to  eliminate  her  and  charged  the  Count  of  Torrelavid  to  do  it.&quot;  The  man  paused.  He  looked  at  his  hands.  It  was  as  if  he  were  putting  his  memories  in  order.  &quot;He  was  a  man  who  had  been  a  dou-  ble  agent  during  the  whole  war.  He  worked  for  them,  but  he  was  one  of  us.  He  went  to  Uribe  and  asked  him  if  he  would  rather  spend  his  life  in  jail  for  the  murder  of  Salinas  or  vanish  into  nothing  and  leave  him  the  child.  Uribe  was  a  coward.  He  had  only  to  stay  quiet,  and  no  court  would  have  succeeded  in  convicting  him.  But  he  was  afraid  and  he  fled.  He  left  the  child  to  the  Count  and  fled.  He  died  ten  years  later,  in  some  godforsaken  village  on  the  other  side  of  the  border.  He  left  a  note  that  he  had  done  nothing  and  that  God  would  follow  his  enemies  to  the  gates  of  Hell,&quot;  The  woman  turned  to  look  at  a  girl  who  was  laughing  loudly,  leaning  on  the  bar  of  the  café.  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Everyone  expected  the  Count  to  kill  her.  But  he  didn't.  He  kept  her  with  him,  at  home.  They  made  him  understand  that  he  was  supposed  to  kill  her.  But  he  did  nothing.  Finally  he  said,  'Don't  worry  about  the  girl.&quot;  And  he  married  her.  For  months  people  around  there      spoke  of  nothing  else.  But  then  they  stopped  thinking  about  it.  The  girl  grew  up  and  bore  the  Count  three  sons.  No  one  ever  saw  her.  They  called  her  Dofia  Sol,  because  it  was  the  name  the  Count  had  given  her.  One  strange  thing  was  said  about  her.  That  she  didn't  speak.  From  the  time  of  Uribe,  no  one  had  ever  heard  her  say  a  word.  Perhaps  it  was  an  illness.  Without  knowing  why,  people  were  afraid  of  her.&quot;  It  had  grown  late,  and  the  waiter  came  and  asked  if  they  wanted  to  eat.  In  one  corner  of  the  café  three  men  had  begun  to  play  music.  It  was  dance  music.  The  man  said  he  wasn't  hungry.  &quot;I  invite  you,&quot;  the  woman  said,  smiling.  She  insisted.  She  said  they  might  have  a  dessert.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  dessert?&quot;  The  man  nodded  yes.  &quot;All  right,  then,  a  dessert.  We'll  have  a  dessert.&quot;  The  waiter  said  it  was  a  good  idea.  Then  headded  that  they  could  stay  as  long  as  they  wanted.  He  turned  to  the  bar,  and  shouted  the  order  to  someone  invisible.  &quot;Did  your  friends  tell  you  all  those  stories?&quot;  the  woman  asked.  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;And  you  believe  them?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  The  woman  asked  him  to  tell  her  the  rest.  &quot;What's  the  point?&quot;  &quot;Do  it,  please.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  my  story,  it's  yours.  You  know  it  better  than  I  do.&quot;  &quot;Not  necessarily.&quot;  The  man  shook  his  head.  He  looked  again  at  his  hands.  &quot;Many  years  had  passed.  I  was  able  to  sleep  at  night.  Peo-  ple  didn't  call  me  Tito.  I  thought  I  had  done  it,  the  war  was  reallyover.  There  was  only  one  thing  left  to  do.  I  took  the  train  and  went  to  Belsito,  to  tell  the  Count  the  story  of  the  trapdoor  and  the  child.  He  knew  who  I  was.  He  was  very  kind,  he  took  me  into  the  library,  offered  me  something  to  drink,  and  asked  me  what  I  wanted.  I  said:  'Doyou  remember  that  night,  at  the  farmhouse  of  Manuel  Roca&quot;  And  he  said:  'No.'  'The  night  when  Manuel  Roca  ..  .'  And  he  said,  I  don't  know  what  you're  talking  about.'  He  said  it  with  great  tranquillity,  even  sweetness.  He  was  sure  of  himself.  He  had  no  doubts.  I  understood.  We  spoke  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  a  little  about  work  and  even  politics,  then  I  got  up  and  left.  He  had  a  young  boy  take  me  to  the  station.  The  boy  couldn't  have  been  fourteen,  yet  they  let  him  drive  the  car.&quot;  &quot;Carlos,&quot;  said  the  woman.  &quot;I  don't  remember  his  name.&quot;  &quot;My  oldest  son.  Carlos.&quot;  The  man  was  about  to  say  some-  thing,  but  the  waiter  had  come  with  the  desserts.  He  brought  a  bottle  of  wine.  He  said  that  if  they  wanted  a  taste  it  was  a  good  wine  to  drink  with  the  sweets.  Then  he  said  something  witty  about  the  owner.  The  woman  smiled,  but  the  man  barely  noticed,  because  he  was  followingthe  train  of  his  memories.  When  thewaiter  left,  he  began  to  speak  again.  &quot;Before  leaving  Belsito  that  day,  as  I  was  walking  down  the  long  hallway,  with  all  those  closed  doors,  I  thought  that  somewhere,  in  the  house,  you  were  there.  I  would  have  liked  to  see  you.  I  was  thinking  that,  when  an  odd  thing  hap-  pened.  A  door  opened.  For  a  second  I  was  absolutely  certain  that  you  would  come  out,  and  pass  by,  without  saying  a  word.&quot;  The  man  shook  his  head  slightly.  &quot;But  nothing  happened.&quot;  The  woman,  with  the  spoon  in  her  hand,  was  staring  at  the  dessert  sitting  on  the  plate,as  if  she  were  trying  to  see  how  to  unlock  it.  Every  so  often  someone  brushed  by  the  table  and  glanced  at  the  two  of  them.  They  were  a  strange  couple.  They  didn't  have  the  gestures  of  people  who  knew  each  other.  But  they  were  speak-  ing  intimately.  She  looked  as  if  she  had  dressed  to  please  him.  Neither  of  them  wore  a  ring.  You  would  have  said  they  were  lovers,  but  perhaps  many  years  before.  Or  sister  and  brother,  who  could  say?  &quot;What  else  do  you  know  about  [REDACTED];  the  woman  asked.  The  man  thought  of  asking  her  the  same  question.  But  he  had  begun  to  tell  a  story,  and  he  realized  that  it  pleased  him  to  tell  it-perhaps  he  had  been  waiting  years  for  that  moment,  to  tell  it,  once  and  for  all,  in  the  shadowy  light  of  a  café,  with  three  musicians  in  a  corner,  playing  the  three-four  rhythm  of  dance  music  they'd  learned  by  heart.  &quot;Some  years  later  the  Count  died  in  a  car  accident.  You  were  left  with  three  children,  Belsito,  and  everything  else.  But  the  relatives  didn't  like  it.  They  said  you  were  mad  and  couldn't  be  left  alone  with  the  three  boys.  They  brought  the  case  to  court  and  the  judge  concluded  that  they  were  right.  So  they  took  you  away  from  Belsito  andhanded  you  over  to  the  doctors,  in  a  sanitarium  in  San-  tander.  Is  that  right?&quot;  &quot;Go  on.&quot;  &quot;It  seems  that  your  sons  testified  against  you.&quot;  The  woman  played  with  her  spoon.  She  made  it  ring  against  the  edge  of  the  plate.  &quot;A  couple  of  years  later  you  escaped,  and  disappeared.  Someone  said  it  was  your  friends  who  had  helped  you  flee,  and  that  now  they  kept  you  hidden  somewhere.  But  those  who  had  known  you  said,  simply,  that  you  had  no  friends.  They  looked  for  you  for  a  while.  Then  no  one  spoke  of  it  anymore.  Many  were  convinced  that  you  were  dead.  Plenty  of  crazy  people  disappear.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  children?&quot;  the  woman  asked.  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  The  man  answered  that  you  needed  to  have  faith  in  the  world  to  have  children.  &quot;In  those  years  I  was  still  working  in  a  factory,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Up  in  the  north.  They  told  me  that  story  about  you,  about  the  clinic  and  the  fact  that  you  had  escaped.  They  said  that  the  most  likely  thing  was  that  you  were  at  the  bottom  of  a  river,  or  at  the  foot  of  a  cliff.  They  said  it  was  all  over.  It  struck  me,  that  business  about  your  being  mad.  I  wondered  what  sort  of  madness  it  was:  if  you  wandered  around  the  house  screaming,  or  if  you  were  just  silent,  in  a  corner,  counting  the  floorboards  and  holding  a  piece  of  string  tight  in  your  hand  or  the  head  of  a  robin.  The  idea  one  has  of  crazy  people  is  ludicrous,  if  one  doesn't  know  them.&quot;  He  paused.  &quot;Four  years  later  el  Gurre  died.&quot;  He  was  silent  again,  as  if  it  had  suddenly  be-  come  tremendously  difficult  to  go  on.  &quot;He  was  found  with  a  bullet  in  his  back,  face  down  in  the  manure,  in  front  of  his  stable.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  woman.  &quot;In  his  pocket  they  found  a  note.  On  the  note  was  written  the  name  of  a  woman.  Yours.&quot;  He  made  a  light  writing  mo-  tion  in  the  air.  &quot;Dofia  Sol.&quot;  He  let  his  hand  fall  back  to  the  table.  &quot;It  was  his  handwriting.  He  had  written  the  name.  Dofia  Sol.&quot;  The  three  musicians,  at  the  back,  struck  up  another  waltz,  dragging  the  tempo  and  playing  very  softly.  &quot;From  that  day  I  expected  you.&quot;  The  woman  had  raised  her  head  and  was  staring  at  him.  &quot;I  knew  that  nothing  could  stop  you,  and  that  one  day  you  would  come  to  me  as  well.  I  never  thought  that  you  would  shoot  me  in  the  back  or  send  someone  to  kill  me.  I  knew  that  you  would  come  and  look  me  in  the  face.  Because  I  was  the  one  who  had  opened  the  trapdoor  that  night,  and  then  had  closed  it.  And  you  would  not  forget  that.&quot;  The  man  hesitated,  then  said  the  only  thing  he  still  wanted  to  say.  &quot;I  have  carried  this  secret  inside  me  for  my  whole  life,  like  a  disease.  I  deserve  to  be  sitting  here,  with  you.&quot;  Then  he  was  silent.  His  heart  was  beating  rapidly,  in  his  fingertips  and  in  his  temples.  He  thought  how  he  was  sit-  ting  in  a  café,  across  from  an  old  woman  who  was  mad  and  who,  from  one  mo-  ment  to  the  next,  might  get  up  and  kill  him,  and  he  would  do  nothing  to  stop  her.  The  war  is  over,  he  thought.  hen  the  man  stopped  talking  the  woman  stopped  looking  at  him.  The  man  had  let  himself  fall  back  into  the  chair.  Now  he  seemed  smaller  and  tired.  He  observed,  as  if  from  a  distance,  the  woman's  eyes  wan-  der  about  the  café  and  over  the  table:  resting  everywhere  except  on  him.  He  realized  that  he  still  had  his  overcoat  on,  and  so  he  sank  his  hands  in  the  pockets.  He  felt  the  collar  pulling  at  his  neck,  as  if  he  had  put  two  stones  in  his  pockets.  He  thought  of  the  peo-  ple  around,  and  found  it  funny  how  no  one  could  have  any  idea  of  what  was  happening.  Then  the  woman  began  tospeak.  &quot;Uribe  picked  up  the  Count's  cards  and  let  them  slide  slowly  between  his  fingers,  revealing  them  one  by  one.  I  don't  think  he  realized  what  he  was  los- ing.  Certainly  he  realized  what  he  was  not  winning.  I  didn't  count  much  for  him.  He  got  up  and  said  goodbye  to  the  company,  politely.  No  one  laughed,  no  one  dared  say  a  word.  They  had  never  seen  a  poker  hand  like  that.  Now  you  tell  me:  why  should  this  story  be  any  less  true  than  the  one  you  told  me?  My  fa-  ther  was  a  wonderful  father.  Don't  you  believe  me?  Why  should  this  story  be  less  true  than  yours?  &quot;Do  you  know  that  I  know  every-  thing  about  that  night,  and  yet  I  re-  member  almost  nothing?  I  was  there  beneath  the  trapdoor,  I  couldn't  see,  I  heard  something,  and  what  I  heard  was  so  absurd  it  was  like  a  dream.  It  all  vanished  in  that  fire.  Children  have  a  special  talent  for  forgetting.  But  then  they  told  me,and  so  I  knew  everything.  Did  they  lie  to  me?  I  don't  know.  You  came  into  the  house,  you  fired  at  my  father,  then  Salinas  shot  him,  and  fi-  nally  el  Gurre  stuck  the  barrel  of  the  machine  gun  in  his  mouth  and  blew  his  head  off.  How  do  I  know?  El  Gurre  told  me.  He  liked  to  talk  about  it.  He  was  an  animal.  You  were  all  animals.  You  men  always  are,  in  war.  How  will  God  forgive  you?&quot;  &quot;Stop  it.&quot;  &quot;Look  atyourself,  you  seem  to  be  a  normal  man,  you  haveyour  worn  over-  coat,  and  when  you  takeoff  your  glasses  you  put  them  carefully  in  their  gray  case.  The  windows  of  your  kiosk  are  clean,  when  you  cross  the  street  you  look  carefully  to  the  right  and  the  left,  you  are  a  normal  man.  And  yet  yousaw  my  brother  die  for  no  reason,  only  a  child  with  a  gun  in  his  hand,  a  burst  of  gunfire  and  he  was  gone,  and  you  were  there,  and  you  did  nothing.  You  were  twenty,  holy  God,  you  weren't  a  ruined  old  man,  you  were  a  boy  of  twenty  and  yet  you  did  nothing.  Please,  explain  all  this  to  me.  It's  not  the  nightmare  of  a  man  with  a  fever,  it's  something  that  happened.  Can  you  tell  me  how  it's  possible?&quot;  &quot;We  were  soldiers.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;We  were  fighting  a  war.&quot;  &quot;What  war?  The  warwas  over.&quot;  &quot;Not  for  us.&quot;  &quot;Not  for  you?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  anything.&quot;  &quot;Then  tell  me  what  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;We  believed  in  a  better  world.&quot;    &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;You  can't  turn  back.  When  people  begin  to  murder  each  other  you  can't  go  back.  We  didn't  want  to  get  to  that  point,  others  started  it,  but  then  there  was  nothing  we  could  do.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  a  better  world?&quot;  &quot;A  just  world,  where  the  weak  don't  have  to  suffer  for  the  evil  of  the  others,  where  everyone  has  a  right  to  happiness.&quot;  &quot;And  you  believed  that?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  believed  it,  we  all  be-  lieved  it.  It  could  be  done  and  we  knew  how.&quot;  &quot;You  knew?&quot;  &quot;Does  that  seem  so  strange  to  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;And  yet  we  knew.  And  we  fought  for  that,  to  be  able  to  do  what  was  right.&quot;  &quot;Killing  children?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  if  it  was  necessary.&quot;  &quot;But  what  are  you  saying?&quot;  &quot;You  can't  understand.&quot;  &quot;I  can  understand-you  explain  and  I'll  understand.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  sow  without  plowing  first.  First  you  have  to  break  up  the  earth.  142  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  (1973)  First  there  has  to  be  a  time  of  suffering,  do  you  understand?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;There  were  a  lot  of  things  that  we  had  to  destroy  in  order  to  build  what  we  wanted.  There  was  no  other  way,  we  had  to  be  ableto  suffer  and  to  inflict  suf-  fering-whoever  could  endure  more  pain  would  win.  You  cannot  dream  of  abetter  world  and  think  that  it  will  be  delivered  just  because  you  ask  for  it.  We  had  to  fight,  and,  once  you  under-  stood  that,  it  no  longer  made  any  dif-  ference  if  they  were  old  people  or  chil-  dren,  your  friends  or  your  enemies.  And  when  everything  became  horrific  we  had  our  dream.  We  knew  that  however  great  the  price  the  reward  would  be  immense.  We  were  not  fighting  for  money,  or  a  field  to  work,  or  a  flag.  We  were  doing  it  for  a  better  world,  do  you  understand  what  that  means?  We  were  restoring  a  decent  life  to  millions  of  men,  and  the  possibility  of  happi-  ness,  of  living  and  dying  with  dignity,  without  being  trampled  or  scorned.  We  were  nothing,  they  were  everything,  millions  of  men-we  were  there  for them.  What's  a  boy  who  dies  against  a  wall,  or  ten  boys,  or  a  hundred?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  really  believe  that?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  believe  it.&quot;  &quot;After  all  these  years  you  still  be-  lieve  it?&quot;  &quot;Why  shouldn't  I?&quot;  &quot;You  won  the  war.  Does  this  seem  to  you  a  better  world?&quot;  &quot;I  have  never  asked  myself.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  true.  You  have  askedyour-  self  a  thousand  times,  but  you're  afraid  to  answer.  Just  as  you  have  asked  your-  self  a  thousand  times  what  you  were  doing  that  evening  at  Mato  Rujo,  fight,  ing  when  the  warwas  over,  killing  a  man  in  cold  blood  whom  you  had  never  even  seen  before,  simply  killing  him,  for  the  sole  reason  that  by  now  you  had  begun  to  murder  and  were  no  longer  capable  of  stopping.  And  in  all  these  years  you  asked  yourselfa  thousand  times  why  you  got  involved  in  the  war,  and  the  whole  time  your  better  world  is  spinning  around  in  your  head  so  that  you  will  not  have  to  think  of  the  day  when  they  brought  you  the  eyes  of  your  father,  or  see  again  all  the  other  mur-  dered  men  who  filled  your  mind,  an  in-  tolerable  memory,  which  was  the  rea-  son  you  fought-to  be  revenged.  You  all  killed  for  revenge.  It's  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of-it's  the  only  drug  for  pain  there  is,  the  only  way  not  to  gomad,  the  drug  that  enables  us  to  fight.  But  it  didn't  free  you,  it  burned  your  entire  life,  it  filled  you  with  ghosts  ..  .&quot;  &quot;It's  not  true.&quot;  &quot;Youno  longer  even  remember  what  life  is.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  know?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  what  can  I  know,  I'm  only  a  crazy  old  woman,  right?  I  can't  un-  derstand,  I  was  a  child  then,  what  do  I  know  about  it?  I'll  tell  you  what  I  know.  I  was  lying  inahole,  under-  ground,  three  men  came,  they  took  my  father,  then  ...&quot;  &quot;Stop  it.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  like  this  story?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sorry  for  anything-we  had  to  fight  and  we  did.  We  weren't  sitting  at  home  with  the  windows  shut,  waiting  for  it  to  pass.  We  came  out  of  our  holes  and  did  what  we  had  to  do,  that's  the  truth.  You  can  say  anything  you  want,  but  it's  different.  You  weren't  there,  you  were  a  child.  It's  not  your  fault,  but  you  can't  understand.&quot;  &quot;You  explain,  I'll  understand.&quot;  &quot;I'm  tired  now.&quot;  &quot;We  have  as  much  time  as  we  want.  You  talk,  I'll  listen.&quot;  &quot;Please,  leave  me  alone.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;Do  what  you  have  to  do,  but  leave  me  in  peace.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  afraid  of  ?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Then  what  is  it?&quot;  &quot;I'm  tired.&quot;  &quot;Of  what?&quot;  &quot;Please  ...&quot;  The  woman  drewaway  from  the  table  and  leaned  against  the  back  of  the  chair.  She  glanced  around,  as  if  suddenly  she  had  realized  where  she  was.  The  man  was  kneading  his  fingers,  one  hand  clasped  in  the  other.  At  the  back  of  the  café,  the  three  musicians  played.  Some-  one  was  dancing.  For  a  while  they  stayed  like  that,  in  silence.  Then  the  woman  said  something  about  a  celebration  many  years  earlier,  where  there  was  a  famous  singer  who  had  asked  her  to  dance.  He  was  old,  she  said  in  a  low  voice,  but  moved  with  astonishing  lightness,  and  before  the  music  ended  he  had  explained  to  her  how  a  woman's  destiny  is  written  in  the  way  she  dances.  He  told  her  that  she  danced  as  if  dancing  were  a  sin.  The  woman  smiled  and  looked  around  again.                  She  said  that  when  she  had  seen  the  trapdoor  raised  she  had  not  been  afraid.  She  had  looked  at  the  boy's  face,  and  in  some  way  she  had  liked  what  was  happening.  But  when  he  lowered  the  door,  then,  yes,  she  became  afraid-  with  the  worst  fear  of  her  life.  The  dark-  nessthat  returned,  the  baskets  being  dragged  over  her  head  again,  the  boy's  footsteps  growing  distant.  She  had  felt  lost.  And  that  terror  had  never  left  her.  Shewas  silent.  Then  she  added  that  the  mind  of  a  child  is  strange.  &quot;At  that  mo-  ment,  I  wished  for  only  one  thing:  that  that  boy  would  take  me  away  with  him.&quot;  She  went  on  talking,  about  children  and  about  fear,  but  the  man  didn't  hear  her  because  he  was  trying  to  put  to-  gether  the  words  to  say  one  thing  that  he  would  have  liked  to  let  the  woman  know,  that  while  he  was  looking  at  her,  that  night,  curled  up  in  the  hole,  so  orderly  and  clean,  he  had  felt  a  kind  of  peace.  That  it  was  like  looking  at  a  landscape  or  staring  into  the  eyes  of  an  animal.  He  looked  at  the  woman  and  saw  her  speak,  but  he  didn't  hear  her  because  his  thoughts  had  carried  him  away  and  he  was  too  tired  to  resist.  He  remained  there,  leaning  against  the  chair  back,  doing  nothing,  until  he  began  to  weep.  He  wasn't  ashamed,  he  didn't  hide  his  face  behind  his  hands,  he  didn't  even  try  to  control  his  face,      contorted  in  sadness,  while  the  tears  descended  to  his  collar,  sliding  down  his  neck,  which  was  white  and  badly  shaved,  like  the  neck  of  every  old  man  in  the  world.  The  woman  stopped.  She  hadn't  real-  ized  that  he  was  crying,  and  now  she  didn't  know  what  todo.  She  leaned  across  the  table  and  murmured  some-  thing,  softly.  Instinctively  she  glanced  at  the  other  tables,  and  she  saw  that  two  boys,  sitting  nearby,  were  looking  at  the  man,  and  one  of  the  two  was  smil-  ing.  She  yelled  something  at  the  boy,  and  when  he  turned  toward  her  she  looked  him  in  the  eyes  and  said,  loudly,  &quot;Fuck  you.&quot;  She  filled  the  man's  glass  with  wine  and  pushed  it  toward  him.  She  sat  back  again.  The  man  continued  to  weep.  Every  so  often  she  looked  around  angrily.  The  man  had  pulled  a  big  handker-  chief  out  of  his  pocket  and  was  drying  his  tears.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said.  They  said  nothing  else.  It  seemed  that  they  no  longer  had  anything  to  un-  derstand,  together.  And  yet  at  a  certain  point  the  woman  leaned  toward  the  man  slightly  and  said:  &quot;I  must  ask  you  some-  thing  a  little  stupid.&quot;  The  man  looked  up.  The  woman  seemed  very  serious.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  make  love  with  [REDACTED];  The  man  stared  at  her,  motionless,  silent.  For  a  moment  the  woman  thought  that  maybe  she  hadn't  said  anything,  that  she  had  only  thought  of  saying  those  words  without  having  said  them.  So  she  repeated  them,  slowly:  &quot;Would  you  like  to  make  love  with  [REDACTED];  The  man  smiled.  &quot;I'm  old,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  am  I.&quot;  «p  'm  sorry,  but  we're  old,&quot;  the  man  said  again.  Something  else  occurred  to  her.  &quot;I'm  not  mad,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  doesn't  matter.  Really.  To  me  it  doesn'tmatter.  It's  not  that.&quot;  The  woman  thought  for  a  moment.  &quot;Don't  worry,  we  can  go  to  a  hotel,  you  canchoose  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  hotel  that  no  one  knows.&quot;  Then  the  man  seemed  to  understand  something.  &quot;You  want  us  to  go  to  a  hotel&quot;&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Yes.  I  would  like  that.  Take  me  to  a  hotel.&quot;  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  He  said  slowly:  &quot;A  hotel  room.&quot;  The  woman  said  he  mustn't  be  afraid.  &quot;I'm  not  afraid,&quot;  he  said.  The  woman  smiled  because  he  was  quiet  and  this  seemed  to  hera  way  of  saying  yes.  She  looked  in  her  bag,  then  took  out  a  small  black  purse  and  pushed  it  across  the  table,  to  the  man.  &quot;Pay  with  this.  I  don't  like  women  who  pay  ina  café,  but  I  invited  you.  Take  this.  Then  give  it  back  to  me  when  we're  outside.&quot;  The  man  took  the  little  purse.  He  thought  of  an  old  manwho  was  paying  with  a  purse  of  black  satin.  hey  crossed  the  city  ina  taxi  that  seemed  new  and  still  had  plastic  on  the  seats.  The  woman  looked  out  the  window  the  whole  time.  They  were  streets  she  had  never  seen.  They  got  out  in  front  of  a  hotel  called  the  [REDACTED].  The  sign  went  vertically  up  the  four  floors  of  the  building,  in  big  red  letters  that  lighted  up  one  by  one.  When  the  word  was  complete  it  shone  for  a  little  while,  then  went  out  com-  pletely  and  began  again.  C.  Ca.  Cal.  Cali.  [REDACTED]  Califo.  Califor.  Californ.  Californi.  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  Cali-  fornia.  [REDACTED].  Darkness.  They  stood  there  for  a  little  while,  one  beside  the  other,  looking  at  the  hotel.  Then  the  woman  said,  &quot;Let's  go,&quot;  and  moved  toward  the  door.  The  man  followed  her.  The  desk  clerk  glanced  at  their  pa-  pers  and  asked  if  they  wanted  a  double  room.  But  without  any  inflection  in  his  voice.  &quot;Whatever  there  is,&quot;  the  woman  answered.  They  took  a  room  that  looked  onto  the  street,  on  the  third  floor.  The  desk  clerk  apologized  that  there  was  no  eleva-  tor  and  offered  to  carry  up  the  suitcases.  &quot;No  suitcases.  We  lost  them,&quot;  the  woman  said.  They  went  into  the  room  and  neither  of  them  made  a  move  to  turn  on  the  light.  The  woman  placed  her  bag  on  a  chair  and  went  to  the  window.  She  pushed  aside  the  transparent  curtains  and  looked  down  for  awhile,  into  the  street.  Occasional  cars  passed,  unhur-  ried.  The  man  was  standing  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  room.  He  was  wondering  if  he  should  sit  on  the  bed,  or  maybe  say  something  about  the  place-for  exam-  ple,  that  it  wasn't  so  bad.  The  woman  went  over  to  the  man,  unbuttoned  his  overcoat,  and  slipping  it  off  his  shoul-  ders  let  it  fall  to  the  floor.  They  were  close.  They  looked  into  each  other's  eyes  for  the  second  time  in  their  lives.  Then  he  slowly  leaned  over  her;  he  had  de-  cided  to  kiss  her  on  the  lips.  She  didn't  move  and  in  a  low  voice  said,  &quot;Don't  be  silly.&quot;  The  man  stopped,  and  he  stood  like  that,  leaning  slightly  forward,  feel-  ing  in  his  heart  that  everything  was  end-  ing.  But  the  woman  slowly  raised  her  arms,  and  took  a  step  forward  and  em-  braced  him,  first  gently,  then  powerfully,  until  her  head  rested  on  his  shoulder  and  her  whole  body  was  pressed  against  his.  The  man  felt  the  body  of  the  woman  who  was  holding  him,  and  her  hands,  light,  in  his  hair.  He  closed  his  eyes.  He  took  the  woman  in  his  arms.  And  with  all  his  old  man's  strength  he  hugged  her  to  him.  When  she  began  to  undressshe  said  smiling:  &quot;Don't  expect  much.&quot;  When  he  was  lying  on  her,  he  said  smiling:  &quot;You  are  very  beautiful.&quot;  From  a  room  nearby  came  the  sound  of  a  radio,  just  perceptible.  Lying  on  his  back,  in  thebig  bed,  completely  naked,  the  man  stared  at  the  ceiling  wondering  if  it  was  weariness  that  made  his  head  spin,  or  the  wine.  Beside  him  the  woman  was  still,  her  eyes  closed,  turned  toward  him,  her  head  on  the  pillow.  They  held  each  other  by  the  hand.  The  night  outside  was  illegible,  and  the  time  was  vanishing  without  measure.  He  thought  that  he  should  be  grateful  to  the  woman,  because  she  had  led  him  there  by  the  hand,  step  by  step,  like  a  mother  with  a  child.  She  had  done  it  wisely,  and  without  haste.  Now  what  remained  to  be  done  would  not  be  difficult.  He  let  go  of  her  hand  and  rolled  onto  his  side,  giving  her  his  back.  It  seemed  that  this  was  what  she  was  expecting.  A  gesture  that  left  her  free  to  think,  and  gave  her  some  solitude  in  which  to  de-  cide  her  final  move.  Sleep  was  about  to  carry  him  off.  It  occurred  to  him  that  he  didn't  like  being  naked  because  they  would  find  him  like  that  and  everyone  would  look  at  him.  But  he  didn't  dare  tell  the  woman.  So  he  turned  his  head     toward  her,  not  enough  to  see  her,  and  said:  &quot;I'd  like  you  to  know  that  my  name  is  Pedro  Cantos.&quot;  The  woman  repeated  it  slowly.  &quot;Pedro  Cantos.&quot;  Then  he  laid  his  head  on  the  pillow  again  and  closed  his  eyes.  Nina  repeated  the  name  in  her  mind.  She  turned  to  look  at  her  bag,  sitting  on  a  chair  near  the  door.  She  thought  of  going  to  get  it,  but  she  didn't,  and  re-  mained  lying  on  the  bed.  She  thought  of  the  kiosk,  of  the  waiter  in  the  café,  of  the  taxi  with  the  plastic-covered  seats.  She  saw  again  Pedro  Cantos  weeping,  his  hands  sunk  in  the  pockets  of  his  overcoat.  She  saw  him  as  he  caressed  her  without  the  courage  to  breathe.  I  will  never  forget  this  day,  she  said  to  herself.  Then  she  turned,  moved  closer  to  Pedro  Cantos,  and  did  what  she  had  been  longing  to  do.  She  curled  up  be-  hind  him:  she  pulled  her  knees  up  to  her  chest;  aligned  her  feet  until  she  felt  her  legs  perfectly  paired,  the  thighs  softly  joined,  the  knees  like  two  cups  balanced  one  on  the  other,  the  calves  separated  by  nothing;  she  shrugged  her  shoulders  slightly  and  slid  her  hands  between  her  legs.  She  looked  at  herself.  She  saw  an  old  doll.  She  smiled.Shell  and  animal.  Then  she  thought  that  however  in-  comprehensible  life  was,  probably  we  move  through  it  with  the  single  desire  to  return  to  the  hell  that  created  us,  to  live  beside  whoever  once  saved  us  from  it.  She  tried  to  ask  herself  where  that  absurd  faithfulness  to  horror  came  from  but  she  had  no  answer.  She  understood  only  that  nothing  is  stronger  than  the  instinct  to  return,  to  where  they  broke  us,  and  to  replicate  that  moment  forever.  Thinking  that  the  one  who  saved  us  once  can  do  it  forever.  In  a  long  hell  identical  to  the  one  from  which  we  came.  But  suddenly  merciful.  And  without  blood.  The  sign  outside  told  its  rosary  of  red  lights.  They  were  like  the  flames  of  a  house  on  fire.  Nina  rested  her  forehead  against  Pedro  Cantos's  back.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  slept.  (Translated,  from  the  Italian,  by  Ann  Goldstein.) 