                    THE  TRICKLE-DOWN  EFFECT  BY  ANNIE  PROULX     D  eb  Sipple  hadhad  it  both  ways-  easy  and  hard.  It  had  been  easy  when  he  was  a  kid  lording  it  over  his  two  sisters,  enjoying  the  run  of  the  ranch  he'd  believed  would  someday  be  his,  getting  first  pick  of  the  horses,  hacking  chunks  off  the  don't-touch  devil's-food  cake  the  cook  had  made  for  dinner.  But  as  he  got  older  the  easy  edges  fell  off.  The  ranch  had  gone  to  the  Elk  Tooth  bank,  his  sisters  lived  in  [REDACTED],  there  were  no  more  good  horses  left,  and  he'd  developed  an  al-  lergy  to  chocolate.  In  a  search  for  the  famous  solace  of  open  spaces,  he'd  built  up  a  drinking  habit.  By  the  early  age  of  thirty  Deb  had  been  married  twice,  and  it  hadn't  taken  permanently  either  time,  despite  the  fact  that  he  had  small  feet  and  abig  pecker.  Modern  women  had  different  standards  than  their  grand-  mothers.  Both  wives  had  named  alco-  hol  abuse  and  Deb's  lack  of  steady  in-  come  as  crucial  factors  in  the  break-  ups.  He  smoked,  too,  but  not  much  was  made  of  that.  Jeanine  called  him  a  sorry  shit;  Paula  cried  large  round  tears,  said  she  loved  him  still  but  would  be  leav-  ing  him  for  a  sheep  rancher  the  coming  weekend.  124  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  &quot;What.  You  are  runnin'  off  with  some  mangy  sheepherder.&quot;  &quot;Not  a  sheepherder.  Rancher.  He  owns  a  sheep  ranch.&quot;  &quot;Sure  he  does.  And  if  you  are  goin',  don't  do  me  no  favors  to  wait  for  the  weekend.  Get  the  hell  out  right  now.&quot;  And  he  helped  her  pack  by  throwing  makeup  pots  and  jars,  sewing  machine,  and  other  female  accoutrements  into  the  yard.  Deb's  only  asset  was  his  flatbed  truck.  Most  of  what  little  money  he  made  with  occasional  hauling  funnelled  straight  into  Elk  Tooth's  three  bars,  what  bar-  &amp;  O  CA  GALE  &amp;  w  ce  s  o  o  tender  [REDACTED]  Gribb  called  the  Wyo-  ming  trickle-down  effect.  He  would  run  up  abig  tab  at  the  Pee  Wee,  and  when  [REDACTED]  leaned  on  him  he  switched  to  the  Silvertip  and  the  Pee  Wee  saw  him  not.  When  the  Silvertip  debt  began  to  be  mentioned,  he  favored  Muddy's  Hole  and  dropped  hints  that  he  was  looking  for  a  job  or  two.  Everyone  understood  that  he  wasn't  interested  in  a  real  job  but  in  a  few  days'  work.  Sooner  or  later  some-  thing  came  up,  and  when  he  collected  he'd  hit  the  Pee  Wee,  pay  off  his  tab,  and  start  a  new  one.  Sowent  the  cycle  of  Deb  Sipple's  years,  measured  in  bar  bills  and  small  work.  yoming  had  been  dry  as  a  quart  of  sand  for  three  years  and  Elk  Tooth  was  in  the  heart  of  the  drought  disaster  zone.  Those  ranchers  who  had  held  on  to  their  herds  hoping  for  rain  were  caught  like  mice.  As  the  summer  drew  to  its  stove-lid  end,  the  most  pre-  cious  commodity  to  those  in  the  cow  business  was  hay,  and  the  prices  de-  manded  for  it  matched  the  prices  for  rubies.  Ranchers  spent  hours  on  the  telephone  and  searching  the  Internet  for  reasonably  priced  hay.  No  flimsy  or  wild  rumor  could  be  ignored.  If  a  rancher  heard  of  hay  up  in  Saskatche-  wan  that  a  seller  described  simply  as  &quot;not  moldy,&quot;  she'd  try  for  it.  Most  of  the  desperate  ranchers  were  women,  for  in  Elk  Tooth  lady  ranchers  abound,  some  who  had  stepped  into  ownership  when  a  husband  rancher  died,  some  the  mature  daughters  of  men  who  had  sired  no  male  heirs,  some  ex-C.E.0.s  who  had  tossed  up  every-  thing  and  headed  for  the  high  country,  as  close  to  Jackson  as  they  could  get.  One  of  the  ranchers  was  Fiesta  Punch,  a  good  horsewoman  but  rough  on  the  hired  help.  She  ran  Red  Cheer-  10s,  a  weird  brand  of  exotics  with  white  rings  around  their  eyes  her  grandfa-  ther  had  bred  up,  but  this  summer  their  O  O  z  0  T  2  3  fe)  6  x  C  e  a  &lt;  ml  o  x  9  ce  range  was  so  badly  gnawed  it  resembled  the  surface  of  an  antique  billiard  table  in  an  attic  heavily  populated  by  moths.  There  was  no  point  in  selling.  The  mar-  ket  was  glutted  and  prices  lower  than  break-even.  And  she  wanted  to  hold  on  to  what  was  probably  the  only  herd  of  Red  Cheerios  in  existence.  She  had  to  get  her  hands  on  enough  hay  to  carry  them  through  the  fall  and  winter.  She  owed  that  much  to  family  heritage.  The  double  trouble  with  scarce  hay  was  that,  in  addition  to  paying  through  the  nose  for  the  stuff,  once  she  finally  lo-  cated  some,  she  then  would  have  to  face  fearsome  transport  charges.  The  only  decent  hay  grew  in  distant  parts  and  hay  transporters  knew  a  penned  turkey  when  they  saw  one.  Hauling  the  hay  from  Farmer  X  to  Rancher  Z  could  double  the  cost  of  the  precious  bales.  Fi-  esta  Punch  was  in  a  position  to  lose  her  shirt.  On  theother  pan  of  the  scale,  Deb  Sipple,  with  his  big  flatbed  truck,  could  almost  guarantee  himself  several  years  of  elbow  security  at  the  Pee  Wee.  Ms.  Punch  was  hunched  over  her  account  books  one  night  alter-  nately  adding  figures  and  cracking  her  knuckles  when  the  phone  rang.  &quot;Fiesta?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  me,  but  this  is  the  friend  of  a  friend.&quot;  &quot;Friend  of  a  friend?&quot;  She  could  hear  country-and-Western  music-Dwight  Yoakam's  rock-drill  voice-in  the  back-  ground.  &quot;What  is  it?  You  want  to  talk  about  urban  legends?&quot;  &quot;What&quot;&quot;  &quot;Never  mind.  What  can  I  do  for  you?  I'm  kind  a  busy.&quot;  &quot;I  know  where  you  can  git  you  some  good  hay.  Good  hay.&quot;  &quot;Where  might  that  be?  Shangxi  Province?  The  Upper  Volta  Region?&quot;  &quot;No,  just  up  therein  Westconston.  I  got  a  friend  in  Cooke  City  and  his  cousin  Bjorn  got  hay.  It's  not  so  droughty  up  there.&quot;  &quot;'Two  or  three  bales,  right?&quot;  &quot;Wrong.  He  got  eighty  bales.  Them  big  round  ones,  them  thousand-pound  ones  you  need  a  bale  fork  to  lift.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  see  if  I  got  this  straight.  Your  friend  is  in  Cooke  City,  Mon-  tana,  and  his  cousin  with  the  hay  is  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  money  does  he  want  for  it?&quot;&quot;  [REDACTED]  hay  was  expensive.  The  caller  named  a  ridiculously  low  figure,  seventy  dollars  a  ton,  the  cost  of  hay  three  years  earlier.  &quot;Must  be  full  a  weeds  and  thistles.&quot;  &quot;It's  good  hay.  You  can  drive  up  there,  look  at  it.  But  you  better  be  fast,  he  won't  have  it  long.  So  far  you're  the  only  one  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  knows  about  it.&quot;  He  gave  her  Bjorn's  phone  number  in  Disk,  [REDACTED].  &quot;So  how  come  I'm  the  lucky  rancher  gets  to  hear  about  this  great  hay?&quot;  she  said,  but  her  question  fell  on  a  dead  connection.  he  flew  up  to  La  Crosse,  rented  the  airport's  last  available  car,  and  drove  out  to  Disk.  Bjérn  Smith  was  a  thready  blond  in  his  forties  with  a  round  head  and  beaky  orangenose  that  gave  him  the  look  of  a  seagull.  He  showed  her  the  hay,  stowed  in  a  capacious,  fragrant  barn.  It  was  prime  alfalfa  hay,  holding  green.  She  pulled  out  a  handful  and  looked  at  it-there  was  a  high  propor-  tion  of  leaf  to  stem,  and  it  was  pliable  and  clean.  She  noticed  it  had  been  cut  in  the  bud  stage.  There  was  nothing  like  [REDACTED]  alfalfa  hay.  &quot;First  cutting?&quot;  she  asked.  Bjorn  nodded.  &quot;I  could  a  sold  it  at  the  hay  auction  for  more,  but  Deb  said  you  was  a  friend  and  needed  hay  bad.  I  guess  you  got  a  mean  drought  over  there  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  She  twisted  her  mouth  in  sardonic  agreement,  paid  him  on  the  spot.  There  goes  almost  six  grand,  she  thought.  &quot;I'll  get  Deb  come  pick  it  up  soon's  I  can,&quot;  she  said,  folding  the  bill  of  sale  into  her  wallet.  &quot;Sooner  the  better.  I  want  a  get  out  a  here.&quot;  &quot;Givin'  up  farmin'?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  Goin'  a  film  school  at  UCLA.&quot;  &quot;No  kiddin'.  Like  learnin'  how  to  make  movies?&quot;  &quot;That's  right.  I  got  ideas.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Fiesta  Punch,  &quot;we  all  got  them.&quot;  Then,  more  kindly,  &quot;I  hope  you  make  it.&quot;  Deb  Sipple  was  in  Muddy's  Hole  cutting  the  dust  with  his  eleventh  beer  and  seventh  cigarette  when  Fiesta  Punch  came  through  the  door  and  looked  around,  then  headed  for  him  as  if  following  a  chalk  line  drawn  across  the  floor.  &quot;Hello,  Deb.  That's  a  filthy  habit.  Everbody  else  but  you  give  up  smokin'.  Anyways,  I  bought  some  hay  up  in  [REDACTED]  and  I  want  you  to  go  pick  it  up  as  soon  as  possible.  Tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Westconston!  Hell,  that's  halfway  across  the  country.  That's  the  other  side  125  athe  [REDACTED].  It's  almost  in  New  York.&quot;  &quot;Not  quite.  It's  in  Disk,  just  over  the  [REDACTED]  line.  As  I  think  you  know,  so  don't  play  dumb.&quot;  She  knew  who  the  anony-  mous  caller  had  been.  &quot;Speed  is  neces-  sary.  Your  pal  Bjorn  wants  to  split,  and  I  need  the  hay.  It's  a  couple  trips  for  you.&quot;  He  put  on  a  sly  face.  &quot;You  know  I'm  goin'  a  bite  your  red  rosy  ass  with  a  heavy  price.&quot;  &quot;That's  what  I  come  to  discuss.&quot;  &quot;I  got  to  ask  two  dollars  fifty  a  ton.&quot;  &quot;T'll  take  it!&quot;  She  could  hardly  believe  her  ears.  Shehad  been  expecting  to  hear  twenty  or  thirty  dollars  per  ton.  &quot;Per  mile,&quot;  said  Deb  Sipple.  Fiesta  Punch  figured  the  damage  rapidly.  It  was  give  ortake  nine  hun-  dred  miles  to  Disk,  [REDACTED].  Eighty  tons  times  two  dollars  and  fifty  cents  was  two  hundred  dollars  per  mile  times  give  ortake  nine  hundred  miles  was-  no  way.  &quot;That's  what  I  call  a  highway  holdup.  That'sovera  hunderd  eighty  thousand  dollars.  That's  more'n  the  herd's  worth.  I  guess  the  spirit  a  Butch  Cassidy  ain't  dead  yet.&quot;  &quot;Fiesta,  you  could  drive  up  there  yourself  in  your  pickup,  bring  it  back  a  ton  at  atime.  Or  you  could  rent  one  a  them  U-Hauls.  Shouldn't  take  you  more'n  a  few  weeks  a  git  her  done  if  you  work  at  it  steady.&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  can't  do  that.  I  got  re-  sponsibilities  here.  I  got  bovines  need  lookin'  after.  Tell  you  what,  I'll  pay  you  fifty  dollars  a  ton  and  no  mileage  charge.  It  comes  to  about  four  grand.  I  can  afford  that,  just  barely,  and  you  will  make  out  like  a  pig  in  afeather  bed.&quot;  &quot;Oink,  oink,&quot;  said  Deb  Sipple.  &quot;Make  it  five.&quot;  Fiesta  Punch  nodded  grimly.  Someone  put  money  in  the  jukebox  and  Dwight  Yoakam  began  to  sing.  he  first  trip  was  easy.  Deb  Sipple  drank  a  beer  with  Bjorn,  had  the  truck  loaded  and  secured  in  two  hours,  the  hay  bales  lined  up  to  make  two  huge  cylinders.  On  the  way  back  he  took  a  northern  route,  stopped  in  Albert  Lea,  [REDACTED],  a  town  whose  crimson  past  has  faded  to  pink  but  where  Deb  Sipple  had  no  trouble  finding  the  Electric  Silo,  a  honky-tonk  where  he  took  on  some  personal  freight  that  gave  him  a  bad  headache  by4  A.M.  In  South  Dakota  he  stopped  for  four  cups  of  coffee  and  a  bison  steak  and,  after  a  cigarette  and  a  piece  of  apple  pie,  was  feeling  well  enough  to  continue.  Fiesta  Punch  had  him  unload  the  hay  in  the  pasture  near  her  main  gate.  &quot;T'll  pay  you  for  the  whole  run  when  you  bring  the  second  load,&quot;  she  said,  then  relented  under  the  force  of  his  pitiable  pleading  and  paid  him  a  hun-  dred  on  account.  126  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  The  second  trip  was  notable  in  every  evil  way.  He  got  off  to  a  bad  start  by  picking  up  a  female  hitchhiker  who  told  him  she'd  been  in  prison  in  Flor-  ida  with  Aileen  Wuornos,  the  serial  killer,  whom  she  counted  as  her  best  friend.  He  made  an  excuse  to  stop  at  a  service  station  and  when,  at  his  sugges-  tion,  she  gotout  to  usethe  ladies'  room  he  took  off.  To  steady  his  nerves,  he  visited  Albert  Lea  again  and  so  missed  the  weather  report  warning  of  a  wind-  storm  in  the  coming  days,  and  when  he  pulled  into  Bjorn's  it  was  well  past  mid-  night.  The  hay  man  was  not  pleased  and  told  him  to  sleep  inhis  truck  until  daylight.  It  was  noon  before  he  woke  up.  It  took  four  hours  to  load  the  hay,  partly  because  the  wind  was  gusting  to  sixty,  partly  because  Deb  Sipple  was  dis-  tracted  to  find  he  had  smoked  all  his  cigarettes  in  Albert  Lea  and  his  host  laughed  cruelly  when  he  asked  for  to-  bacco.  Then  he  discovered  he  had  for-  gotten  to  bring  the  tarp.  &quot;What  the  hell,  it  gets  wet  it  gets  wet,  right?&quot;  It  is  no  fun  to  drive  a  big  rig  loaded  with  round  hay  bales  under  a  dark  sky  in  a  high  wind  with  a  hangover  and  the  cigarette  fits,  but  that's  how  it  was  for  Deb  Sipple.  When  once  again  he  came  to  Albert  Lea  it  was  nightfall  and  natural  to  pull  into  the  Electric  Silo,  a  bar  he  ranked  second  only  to  the  Pee  Wee.  He  thought  briefly  about  moving  to  [REDACTED].  He  apologized  to  the  comely  bar  girl  (who  remembered  him  by  name)  for  drinking  only  four  beers,  explained  that  he  was  in  a  hurry,  bought  three  packs  of  cigarettes  for  the  road,  and  said  good  night.  Outside  the  wind  had  lessened  a  little  and  he  could  see  some-  thing  like  stars  overhead.  The  weather  was  clearing.  But  the  scanty  number  of  beers  left  him  with  a  gnawing,  unsatisfied  feel-  ing,  and  in  Rapid  City  he  found  Klip-  per's  Klip  Joint,  which  had  everything  he  wanted,  from  cheap  shotsto  foam-  ing  on-tap  to  Dwight  Yoakam  songs.  At  some  point  two  men  carried  him  out  to  his  truck  and  heaved  him  up  into  the  seat,  told  him  to  sleep  it  off.  But  hardly  had  they  gone  back  inside  than  he  was  bolt  upright  behind  the  wheel  and  fum-  bling  for  his  cigarettes.  A  cigarette  going,  it  was  only  natural  to  start  up  and  drive  and  in  a  half  an  hour  he'd  found  his  way  out  of  Rapid  City  with  its  crazy  double  street  lamps  and  whirling  traffic  lights  and  was  sailing  west  on  I-90.  The  min-  ute  he  hit  the  [REDACTED]  line  he  felt  bet-  ter,  opened  the  third  pack,  and  lit  an-  other  cigarette  to  celebrate  a  return  to  his  home  state.  It  was  a  jolt  to  find  he  al-  ready  had  a  cigarette  going,  but  he  threw  the  half-smoked  one  out  the  window  and  rolled  on.  He  got  off  the  interstate  as  soon  as  he  could,  dimly  aware  that  it  would  not  be  the  best  time  for  a  conver-  sation  with  a  state  trooper.  By  the  time  he  turned  onto  the  road  for  Sack  with  Elk  Tooth  only  forty  miles  beyond,  he  had  tossed  fourteen  burning  cigarettes  out  the  window  and  many  of  them  had  nuzzled  into  hay  bales.  Deb  Sipple's  return  was  the  closest  thing  to  a  meteor  ever  seen  in  Elk  Tooth,  his  trucka  great  fiery  cylinder  hurtling  through  the  darkness.  Those  who  missed  seeing  it  have  to  depend  on  the  reports  of  the  fortunate  few  who  were  awake  at  that  hour.  The  most  vivid  account  will  come  from  Fiesta  Punch,  who  lost  not  only  the  burned  cargo  but  the  bales  he'd  delivered  earlier,  consumed  in  the  myr-  iad  grass  fires  that  followed  him  into  town  and  laid  waste  the  ranch  country.  The  hundred-dollar  bill  Deb  had  begged  from  Fiesta  Punch  had  gone  to  gasoline  and  the  Electric  Silo.  &quot;I  guess  they're  even,&quot;  said  [REDACTED]  Gribb. 