FICTION  JOLENE:  A  LIFE  BY  E.  L.  DOCTOROWYW  he  married  Mickey  Holler  when  she  was  fifteen.  Married  him  to  get  out  of  her  latest  foster  home,  where  her  so-  called  dad  used  to  fool  with  her,  get  her  to  hold  him,  things  like  that.  Even  before  her  menses  started.  And  her  foster  mom  liked  to  slap  her  up  the  head  for  no  rea-  son.  Or  for  every  reason.  So  she  married  Mickey.  And  he  loved  her-that  was  a  plus.  Shehad  never  had  that  experience  before.  It  made  her  look  at  herself  in  the  mirror  and  do  things  with  her  hair.  He  was  twenty,  Mickey.  Real  name  Mervin.  He  was  a  sweet  boy,  if  without  very  much  upstairs,  as  she  knew  even  from  their  first  date.  He  had  a  heel  that  didn't  touch  the  ground  and  weak  eyes,  but  he  was  not  the  kind  tolay  a  handon  a  woman.  And  she  could  tell  him  what  she  wanted,  like  a  movie  or  a  grilled-cheese  sandwich  and  a  chocolate  shake,  and  it  became  his  pur-  pose  in  life.  He  loved  her,  he  really  did,  even  if  he  didn't  knowmuch  about  it.  But,  anyway,  she  was  out  of  the  house  now,  and  wearing  a  wedding  ring  toJeff  Davis  High.  Some  of  the  boys  said  smutty  things,  but  the  girls  looked  upon  her  with  a  new  respect.  Mickey's  Uncle  Phil  had  come  to  the  justice  of  the  peace  with  them,  to  be  best  man.  After  the  ceremony  he  grinned  and  said,  Welcome  to  our  family,  Jolene,  honey,  and  gave  hera  big  hug  that  lasted  a  mite  too  long.  Uncle  Phil  was  like  a  fa-  ther  to  Mickey  and  employed  him  to  drive  one  of  the  trucks  in  his  home-oil-  delivery  business.  Mickey  Holler  was  al-  most  an  orphan.  His  real  father  was  in  the  state  penitentiary  with  no  parole,  for  the  same  reason  that  his  mother  was  in  the  burial  ground  behind  the  First  Bap-  tist  Church.  Jolene  asked  Mickey,  as  she  thought  permissible  now  that  she  was  a  relation,  what  his  mother  had  done  to  deserve  her  fate.  But  he  got  all  flustered  when  he  tried  to  talk  about  it.  It  hap-  pened  when  he  was  only  twelve.  She  was  left  to  gather  for  herself  that  his  father  was  a  crazy  drunk  who  had  done  bad  things  even  before  this  happened.  But,  anyway,  that  was  why  Jolene  was  living  now  with  Mickey  under  the  same  roof  with  his  Uncle  Phil  and  Aunt  Kay.  Aunt  Kay  was  real  smart.  Shewas  an  assistant  manager  in  the  Southern  People's  Bank  across  thesquare  from  the  court-  house.  So,  between  her  and  Uncle  Phil's  oil  business,  they  had  a  nice  ranch  house  with  a  garden  out  back  and  a  picnic  table  and  two  hammocks  between  the  trees.  Jolene  liked  the  room  she  and  Mickey  occupied,  though  it  looked  into  the  drive-  way,  and  she  had  all  she  could  do  to  keep  it  nice,  with  Mickey  dropping  his  greasy  coveralls  on  the  floor.  But  she  understood  the  double  obligations  of  being  a  wife  and  an  unpaying  boarder  besides.  As  she  was  home  from  school  before  anyone  fin-  ished  his  job  for  the  day,  she  tried  to  make  herself  useful.  She  would  have  anhour  or  so  to  do  some  of  her  homework  and  then  she  would  go  into  the  kitchen  and  put  up  something  for  everyone's  dinner.  Jolene  had  always  liked  school-she  felt  at  home  there.  Her  favorite  subject  was  art.  Shehad  been  drawing  from  the  time  she  was  in  third  grade,  when  the  class  had  done  a  mural  of  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  and  she  drew  more  of  it  than  anyone.  She  couldn't  do  much  art  now  at  this  time  in  her  life  as  amarried  woman,  not  being  just  forherself  anymore.  But  she  still  no-  ticed  things.  She  was  someone  who  had  an  eye  for  what  wants  to  be  drawn.  Mickey  had  a  white  hairless  chest  with  a  collar-  bone  that  stood  out  across  from  shoulder  to  shoulder  like  he  was  someone's  beast  of  burden.  And  a  long  neck  and  a  backbone  that  she  could  use  to  do  sums.  He  surely  did  love  her-he  cried  sometimes  he  loved  her  so  much-but  that  was  all.  She  had  a  sixteenth  birthday  and  he  bought  her  a  negligee  he'd  pickedouthimself  at  Ber-  man's  department  store.  It  was  three  sizes  too  big.  Jolene  could  take  it  back  for  ex-  change,  of  course,  but  she  had  the  unset-  tling  thought  that  as  Mickey's  wife  all  that  would  happen  in  her  life  to  come  was  she  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  103  would  grow  into  something  that  size.  He  liked  to  watch  her  doing  her  homework,  which  made  her  realize  he  had  no  am-  bition  for  himself,  Mickey  Holler.  He  would  never  run  a  business  and  play  golf  on  the  weekend  like  Uncle  Phil.  He  was  a  day-to-day  person.  He  did  not  ever  talk  about  buying  his  own  home,  or  moving  toward  anything  that  would  make  things  different  for  them  than  they  were  now.  She  couldthink  this  of  him  even  though  she  liked  to  kiss  his  pale  chest  and  run  her  fingers  over  the  humps  of  his  backbone.  Uncle  Phil  was  tall  with  a  good  strong  jaw  and  a  head  of  shining  black  hair  he  combed  in  a  kind  of  wave,  and  he  had  dark  meaningful  eyes  and  a  deep  voice,  and  he  joked  around  with  a  lot  of  self-  assurance-oh,  hewas  a  man,  of  that  there  was  no  doubt.  At  first  it  made  Jolene  nervous  when  he  would  eye  her  up  and  down.  Or  he  would  sing  a  line  from  a  fa-  mous  love  song  to  her.  You  are  so  beautiful  to  me-e!  And  then  he  would  laugh  to  let  her  know  it  was  all  just  the  same  horsing  around  as  he  was  accustomed  to  doing.  He  was  tanned  from  being  out  on  the  county  golf  course,  and  even  the  slight  belly  he  had  on  him  under  his  knit  shirt  seemed  just  right.  The  main  thing  about  him  was  that  he  enjoyed  his  life,  and  he  was  popular;  they  had  their  social  set,  though  you  could  see  most  of  their  friends  came  through  him.  Aunt  Kay  was  not  exactly  the  opposite  ofUncle  Phil,  but  she  was  the  one  who  at-  tended  to  business.  She  was  a  proper  sort  who  never  sat  back  with  her  shoesoffand,  though  kind  and  correct  as  far  as  Jolene  was  concerned,  clearly  would  have  preferred  to  have  her  home  to  herself  now  that  Mickey  had  someone  to  take  care  of  him.  Jolene  knew  this-she  didn't  have  to  be  told.  She  could  work  her  fingers  to  the  bone  and  Aunt  Kay  would  still  never  love  her.  Aunt  Kay  was  a  Yankee  and  had  come  to  live  in  the  South  because  of  a  job  offer.  She  and  Uncle  Phil  had  been  married  fif-  teen  years.  She  called  him  Philip,  which  Jo-  lene  thought  was  putting  on  airs.  She  wore  suits  and  panty  hose,  always,  and  blouses  with  collars  buttoned  to  the  neck.  She  was  no  beauty,  but  you  could  see  what  had  in-  terested  Phil-her  very  light  blue,  icy  eyes,  maybe,  and  naturally  blond  hair,  and  she  had  a  generous  figure  that  required  a  panty  girdle,  which  she  was  never  without.  But  now  Uncle  Phil  got  in  the  habit  of  waking  them  up  in  the  morning,  104  coming  into  their  room  without  knock-  ing  and  saying  in  his  deep  voice,  Time  for  work,  Mickey  Holler!  but  looking  at  Jolene  in  the  meantime  as  she  pulled  the  covers  up  to  her  chin.  She  knew  the  man  was  doing  some-  thing  he  shouldn't  be  doing  with  that  wake-up  routine  and  it  made  her  angry  but  she  didn't  know  what  shecould  do  about  it.  Mickey  seemed  blind  to  the  fact  that  his  own  uncle,  his  late  mother's  brother,  had  an  eye  for  her.  At  the  same  time,  she  was  excited  to  have  been  noticed  by  this  man  of  the  world.  She  knew  that  as  a  handsome  smiling  fellow  with  white  teeth  Phil  would  be  quite  aware  of  his  effect  on  women,  so  she  made  a  point  of  seeming  to  be  obliv-  ious  of  him  as  anything  but  her  husband's  uncle  and  employer.  But  this  became  more  and  more  difficult,  living  in  the  same  house  with  him.  She  found  herself  think-  ing  about  him.In  her  mind  Jolene  made  up  a  story:  how  gradually,  over  time,  it  would  become  apparent  that  she  and  Uncle  Phil  were  meant  for  each  other.  How  an  understanding  would  arise  be-  tween  them  and  go  on  for  some  years  until,  possibly,  Aunt  Kay  died,  or  left  him-it  wasn't  all  that  clear  in  Jolene's  mind.  But  Uncle  Phil  was  not  one  for  dream-  ing.  One  afternoon  she  was  scrubbing  their  kitchen  floor  for  them,  down  on  her  knees  in  her  shorts  with  her  rump  up  in  the  air,  andhe  had  come  home  early,  in  that  being  his  own  boss  he  could  come  and  go  as  he  liked.  Shewas  humming  &quot;I  Want  to  Hold  Your  Hand&quot;  and  didn't  hear  him.  He  stood  in  the  door  watching  how  the  scrubbing  motion  was  rendered  on  her  behind,  and  no  sooner  didshe  realize  she  was  not  alone  than  he  was  lifting  her  from  the  waist  in  her  same  kneeling  posi-  tion  and  carrying  her  that  way  into  his  bedroom,  the  scrub  brush  still  in  her  hand.  That  night  in  her  own  bed  she  could  still  smell  Uncle  Phil's  aftershave  lotion  and  feel  the  little  cotton  balls  of  their  chenille  bedspread  in  the  grasp  of  her     THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  fingers.  She  was  too  sore  even  for  Mickey's  fumblings.  And  that  was  the  beginning.  In  all  Jolene's  young  life,  she  had  never  been  to  where  she  couldn't  wait  to  see  some-  one.  She  tried  to  contain  herself,  but  her  schoolwork  began  to  fall  off,  though  she  had  always  been  a  conscientious  student,  even  if  not  the  smartest  brain  in  her  class.  But  it  was  that  way  with  Phil,  too-it  was  so  intense  and  constant  that  he  was  no  longer  laughing.  It  was  more  like  they  were  equals  in  their  magnetic  attraction.  They  justcouldn't  get  enough.  It  was  every  day,  always  while  AuntKay  was  putting  up  her  numbers  in  the  South-  ern  People's  Bank  and  Mickey,  poor  Mickey,  was  riding  his  oil  route  as  Uncle  Phil  devised  it  to  the  furthermost  reaches  of  the  town  line  and  beyond.  Well,  the  passion  between  people  can  never  be  anything  but  drawn  to  a  conclu-  sion  by  the  lawful  spouses  around  them,  and  after  a  month  or  two  of  this  everyone  knew  it,  and  the  crisis  came  banging  open  the  bedroom  door  shouting  her  name,  and  all  at  once  Mickey  was  riding  Phil's  back  Tike  a  monkey,  beating  him  about  the  head  and  crying  all  the  while,  and  Phil,  in  his  skivvies,  with  Mickey  pounding  him,  stag-  gered  around  the  combined  living-and-  dining  room  till  he  backpedalled  the  poor  boy  up  against  their  big  TV  and  smashed  him  through  the  screen.  Jolene,  in  her  later  reflections,  when  she  had  nothing  in  the  world  to  do  but  pass  the  time,  remem-  bered  everything-she  remembered  the  bursting  sound  of  the  TV  glass,  she  re-  membered  how  surprised  she  was  to  see  how  skinny  Phil's  legs  were,  and  that  the  sun  through  the  blinds  was  so  bright  be-  cause  daylight-saving  had  come  along  un-  beknownst  to  the  lovers,  which  was  why  the  working  people  had  got  home  before  they  were  supposed  to.  But  at  the  time  there  was  no  leisure  for  thought.  Aunt  Kay  was  dragging  her  by  the  hair  through  the  hall  overthe  shag  carpet  and  into  the  kitchen,  across  the  fake-tile  flooring,  and  she  was  out  the  kitchen  door,  kicked  down  the  back  steps,  and  thrown  out  like  some-  one's  damn  cat  and  yowling  like  one,  too.  Jolene  waitedout  there  by  the  edge  of  the  property,  crouching  in  the  bushes  in  her  shift  with  her  arms  folded  across  her  breasts.  She  waited  for  Phil  to  come  out  and  take  her  away,  but  he  never  did.  Mickey  was  the  one  who  opened  the  door.  He  stood  there  looking  at  her  in  the  quiet outside,  while  from  the  house  they  listened  to  the  shouting  and  the  sound  of  things  breaking.  Mickey's  hair  was  sticking  up  and  his  glasses  were  bent  broken  across  his  nose.  Jolene  called  to  him.  She  was  crying;  she  wanted  him  to  forgive  her  and  tell  her  it  was  all  right.  But  what  he  did,  her  Mickey,  he  got  in  his  pickup  in  his  bloody  shirt  and  drove  away.  hat  was  what  Jolene  came  to  think  of  as  the  end  of  Chapter  1  in  her  life  story,  because  where  Mickey  drove  to  was  the  middle  of  the  Catawba  River  bridge,  and  there  he  stopped  and  with  the  engine  still  running  he  jumped  off  into  that  rocky  river  and  killed  himself.  More  than  one  neighbor  must  have  seen  her  wandering  the  streets,  and  by  and  by  a  police  cruiser  pickedher  up,  and  first  she  was  taken  to  the  emergency  room,  where  it  was  noted  that  her  vital  signs  were  O.K.,  though  they  showed  her  where  a  clump  of  her  red  hair  had  been  pulled  out.  Then  she  was  put  into  a  motel  off  the  interstate  while  the  system  figured  out  what  to  do  with  her.  She  was  a  home  wrecker  but  also  a  widow  but  also  a  juve-  nile  with  no  living  relatives.  The  fosters  she  had  left  to  marry  Mickey  would  take  no  responsibility  for  her.  Time  passed.  She  watched  soaps.  She  cried.  A  matron  was  keeping  an  eye  on  her  morning  and  night.  Then  a  psychiatrist  who  worked  for  the  county  came  to  interview  her.  A  day  afterthat,  she  was  driven  to  acourthear-  ing  with  testimony  by  this  county  psychi- atrist  she  had  told  her  story  to  in  all  hon-  esty,  and  that  was  something  that  embit-  tered  her  as  the  double  cross  of  all  time,  because  on  his  recommendation  she  was  remanded  to  the  juvenile  loony  bin  until  such  time  as  she  was  to  become  a  reason-  able  adult  ableto  take  care  of  herself.  Well,  so  there  she  was,  moping  about  on  their  pills,  half  asleep  for  most  of  the  day  and  night,  and  of  course,  as  she  quickly  learned,  this  was  no  place  to  re-  gain  her  sanity,  if  she  had  ever  lost  it  in  the  first  place,  which  she  knew  just  by  looking  at  who  else  was  there  that  she  hadn't.  About  two  months  into  the  hellthere,  they  one  morning  took  off  her  usual  gray  hanging  frock  and  put  her  in  a  recogniz-  able  dark  dress,  though  a  size  too  big,  and  fixed  her  hair  with  a  barrette  and  drove  her  in  a  van  to  the  courthouse  once  again,  though  this  time  it  was  for  her  testimony  as  to  her  relations  with  Uncle  Phil,  who  was  there  at  the  defense  table  looking  awful.  She  didn't  know  what  was  different  about  him  till  she  realized  his  hair  was  without  lustre  and,  in  fact,  gray.  Then  she  knew  that  all  this  time  she  had  been  so  impressed  he  had  been  dyeing  it.  He  was  hunched  over  from  the  fix  he  was  in  and  he  never  looked  at  her,this  man  of  the  world.  A  little  of  theold  feeling  arose  in  her  and  she  was  angry  with  herself  but  she  couldn't  help  it.  She  waited  for  some  acknowledgment,  but  it  never  came.  What  it  was,  Aunt  Kay  had  kicked  him  out,  he  was  sleeping  in  his  office,  his  business  had  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  gone  down  the  tubes,  and  none  of  his  bud-  dies  would  playgolf  with  him  anymore.  Jolene  was  called  upon  to  show  the  judge  that  she  was,  at  sixteen,  underage  for  such  doings,  which  made  Phil  a  statutory  rapist.  There  was  a  nice  legal  argument  for  just  a  minute  or  two  as  to  how  she  was  a  married  woman  at  the  time,  an  adulter-  ess,  in  fact,  and  certainly  not  unknowing  in  the  ways  of  carnal  life,  but  that  didn't  hold  water,  apparently.  She  was  excused  and  taken  back  to  the  loony  bin  and  put  back  in  her  hanging  gray  frock  and  slip-  pers,  and  that  was  it  for  the  real  world.  She  heard  that  Phil  pulled  eighteen  months  in  the  state  prison.  She  couldn't  sympathize,  being  in  one  of  her  own.  Jolene  didn't  think  much  about  Mickey,  but  she  drew  his  face  over  and  over.  She  drew  headstones  in  a  graveyard  and  then  drew  his  face  on  the  gravestones.  This  seemed  to  her  a  worthy  artistic  task.  The  more  she  drew  of  Mickey  the  more  she  remembered  the  details  of  how  he  looked  at  her  on  the  last  evening  of  his  life,  but  it  was  hard  with  just  crayons-they  would  only  give  her  crayons  to  draw  with,  not  the  colored  pencils  she  asked  for.  Then  something  good  happened.  One  of  the  girls  in  the  ward  smashed  the  mirror  over  the  sink  in  the  bathroom  and  used  a  sliver  of  it  to  cut  her  wrists.  Well,  that,  of  course,  wasn't  good,  but  all  the  mirrors  in  the  bathroom  were  removed  and  nobody  could  see  herself,  except  maybe,  if  they  stood  on  the  bed  and  the  sunlight  was  in  the  right  place,  in  the  windows  behind  the  mesh  screen.  So  Jolene  began  a  business  in  portraits.  She  drew  a  girl's  face,  and  soon  they  were  waiting  in  line  to  have  her  draw  them.  If  they  didn't  have  a  mirror,  they  had  Jolene.  Some  of  her  likenesses  were  not  very  good,  but  since  in  most  cases  they  were  a  lot  better  than  the  originals,  nobody  minded.  Mrs.  Molloy,  the  head  nurse,  thought  that  this  was  good  therapy  for  everyone,  and  so  Jolene  was  given  a  set  of  watercolors  with  three  brushes,  and  a  big  thicksketchpad,  and  when  therage  forportraits  had  played  itself  out  she  painted  everything  else-the  ward,  the  game  room,  the  yard  where  they  walked,  the  flowers  in  the  flower  bed,  the  sunset  through  the  black  mesh,  everything.  But  since  she  was  as  sane  as  anyone,  she  was  more  and  more  desperate  to  get  out  of  there.  After  a  year  or  so,  she  made  the  best  deal  she  could,  with  one  of  the  night  attendants-a  sharp-faced  woman,  105     sallow  in  coloring  but  decent  and  roughly  kind  to  people,  name  of  Cindy.  Jolene  thought  that  Cindy,  with  the  leathery  lines  in  her  face,  might  be  no  less  than  fifty  years  old.  Cindy  had  an  eye  for  Jo-  lene  right  from  the  beginning.  She  gave  her  cigarettes  to  smoke  outside  behind  the  garbage  bins,  and  she  knew  hair  and  makeup.  She  said,  Red-Jolene  had  what  they  call  strawberry  hair,  so  that,  of  course,  was  her  nickname-Red,  you  don't  want  to  cover  up  those  freckles.  They  are  charming  in  a  girl  like  you,  they  give  your  face  a  sunlight.  And  see,  if  you  keep  pulling  back  your  hair  into  ponytails  your  hairline  will  recede,  so  we'll  cut  it  just  a  bit  shorter,  so  that  it  curls  up  as  it  wants  to,  and  we  let  it  frame  your  sweet  face  and,  lo  and  behold,  you  are  as  pretty  as  a  picture.  Cindy  liked  the  freckles  on  Jolene's  breasts,  too,  and  it  wasn't  too  bad  being  loved  up  by  a  woman.  It  was  not  her  first  choice,  but  Jolene  thought,  Once  you  get  going,  it  doesn't  matter  who  itis  or  what  they've  got-  there  is  the  same  panic,  after  all,  and  we  are  blind  at  such  moments.  But,  anyway,  that  was  the  deal,  and  in  order  to  get  her-  self  out  of  the  loony  binshe  agreed  to  live  with  Cindy  in  her  own  home,  where  she  would  cuddle  secretly  like  her  love  child,  until  she  could  escape  from  there  as  well.  With  just  acouple  of  clicks  of  door  locks  and  some  minutes  of  hiding  in  asupply  closet,  and  thenwith  more  keys  turning  and  a  creak  of  gates,  Jolene  rode  to  freedom  in  the  trunk  of  Cindy's  beat  up  Corolla.  It  was  even  easier,  after  one  night,  walking  out  Cindy's  front  door  in  broad  daylight  once  the  woman  had  gone  back  to  work.  Jolene  hit  the  road.  She  wanted  out  of  that  town  and  out  of  that  county  how-  ever  she  could.  She  had  almost  a  hundred  dollars  from  her  watercolor  business.  She  hitched  some,  and  rode  some  local  buses.  Shehad  a  small  suitcase  and  a  lot  of  atti-  tude  to  get  her  safe  across  state  lines.  She  worked  in  a  five-and-ten  in  [REDACTED]  and  in  an  industrial  laundry  in  Mem-  phis.  There  was  always  a  Y.W.C.A.,  to  stay  out  of  trouble.  And  while  she  did  have  to  takea  deep  breath  and  sell  it  once  or  twice  across  the  country,  it  had  the  virtue  of  hardening  her  up  for  her  own  protection.  Shewas  just  seventeen  by  then,  but  carrying  herself  with  some  new  106     clothes  like  she  was  ten  years  older,  so  that  nobody  would  know  there  was  just  this  scared  girl-child  inside  the  hip-  slinger  with  the  platform  strap  shoes.  Which  brought  her  to  Phoenix,  Ari-  zona,  a  hot,  flat  city  in  the  desert,  but  with  a  lot  of  fast-moving  people  who  lived  inside  their  air-conditioning.  he  appreciated  that  in  the  West  human  society  was  less  tight-assed,  nobody  cared  that  much  what  you  did  or  who  your  parents  were  and  most  every-  one  you  met  came  from  some-  where  else.  Before  long,  she  was  working  at  a  Dairy  Queen  and  had  a  best  friend,  Kendra,  who  was  one  of  her  roommates,  a  Northern  girl  from  Akron,  [REDACTED].  The  Dairy  Queen  was  at  the  edge  of  city  life  with  a  view  over  warehouses  to  the  flat  des-  ert  with  its  straight  roads  and  brownish  mountains  away  in  the  dis-  tance.  Shehad  to  revert  back  to  her  real  age  to  get  this  job.  It  involved  roller-  skating,  a  skill  which  she  fortunately  had  not  forgotten.  You  skated  out  to  the  cus-  tomers  with  their  order  on  a  tray  that  you  hooked  to  the  car  window.  It  was  only  minimum,  but  some  men  would  give  you  a  good  tip,  though  women  never  did.  And,  anyway,  that  wasn't  to  last  long,  because  this  cute  guy  kept  coming  around  every  day.  He  had  long  hair,  a  scraggly  lip  beard,  and  a  ring  in  his  ear-he  looked  like  a  rock  star.  He  wore  an  undershirt  with  his  jeans  and  boots,  so  you  could  see  the  tat,  toos  that  went  up  and  down  his  arms,  across  his  shoulders,  and  onto  his  chest.  He  even  had  a  guitar  in  the  back  of  his  1965  plum-color  Caddy  convertible.  Of  course  she  ignored  his  entreaties,  though  he  kept  coming  back,  and  if  another  girl  waited  on  him  he  asked  her  where  Jolene  was.  All  the  girls  wore  nametags,  you  see.  One  day,  he  drove  up,  and  when  she  came  back  with  his  order  he  was  sitting  on  the  top  of  the  front  seat  with  a  big  smile,  though  a  front  tooth  was  missing.  He  strummed  his  guitar  and  he  said,  Listen  to  this,  Jolene,  and  he  sang  this  song  he  had  made  up,  and  as  he  sang  he  laughed  in  ap-  preciation,  as  if  someone  else  was  singing.  Jolene,  Jolene  She  is  so  mean  She  won't  be  seen  with  me  At  the  Dairy  Queen.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  Jolene,  Jolene  Please  don't  be  mean  Your  name  it  means  to  me  My  love  you'll  glean  from  me  I  am  so  keen  to  see  How  happy  we  will  be  When  you  are  one  with  me  Jolene,  Jolene  My  Dairy  Queen.  Well,  she  knew  he  was  a  sly  one,  but  he'd  gone  to  the  trouble  of  think-  ing  it  up,  didn't  he?  The  people  in  the  next  car  laughed  and  applauded,  and  she  blushed  right  through  her  freckles,  but  she  couldn't  help  laughing  along  with  them.  And,  of  course,  with  his  voice  not  very  good  and  his  guitar  not  quite  in  tune,  she  knew  he  was  no  rock  star,  buthe  was  loud  and  didn't  mind  making  a  fool  of  himself,  and  she  liked  that.  In  fact,  the  guywas  by  profession  a  tattoo  artist.  His  name  was  Coco  Leger,  pronounced  Lerjay.  He  was  originally  from  New  Orleans,  and  she  did  go  out  dancing  with  him  the  next  Saturday,  though  her  friend  Kendra  strongly  ad-  vised  against  it.  The  guy  is  a  sleaze,  Kendra  said.  Jolene  thought  she  might  be  right.  On  the  other  hand,  Kendra  had  no  boyfriend  of  her  own  at  the  moment.  And  she  was  critical  about  most  every-  thing,  theirjobs,  what  she  ate,  the  mov-  ies  they  saw,  the  furniture  that  came  with  the  rental  apartment,  and  maybe  even  the  city  of  Phoenix  in  its  entirety.  But  Jolene  wenton  the  date  and  Coco  was  almost  a  gentleman.  He  was  a  good  disco  dancer,  though  a  bit  of  a  showoff  with  all  his  pelvic  moves,  and  what  was  the  harm,  after  all?  Coco  Leger  made  her  laugh,  and  she  hadn't  had  a  reason  to  laugh  in  a  long  time.  One  thing  led  to  another.  There  was  first  a  small  heart  to  beembossed  for  free  on  her  behind,  and  before  long  she  was  working  as  an  apprentice  at  Coco's  Insti-  tute  of  Body  Art.  He  showed  her  how  to  go  about  things,  and  she  caught  on  quick  and  eventually  she  got  to  doing  custom-  ers  who  wanted  the  cheap  stock  tattoos.  It  was  drawing  with  a  needle,  a  slow  pro-  cess  like  using  only  the  tip  of  your  paint-  brush  one  dab  at  a  time.  Coco  was  very  impressed  with  how  fast  she  learned.  He  said  she  was  areal  asset.  He  fired  the  woman  who  worked  for  him,  and  after  a  serious  discussion  Jolene  agreed  to  move  in  with  him,  in  the  two  rooms     above  his  store,  or  studio,  as  he  called  it.  Kendra,  who  was  still  at  the  Dairy  Queen,  sat  and  watched  her  pack  her  things.  I  can  see  what  he  sees  in  you,  Jo-  lene,  she  said.  You'vegot  a  trim  little  fig-  ure  and  everything  moves  the  way  it  should  withoutyour  even  trying.  Thank  you,  Kendra.  Your  skin  is  so  fair,  Kendra  said.  And  you've  got  that  nose  that  turns  up  and  a  killer  smile.  Thank  you,  Kendra,  she  said  again,  and  gave  her  a  hug  be-  cause,  though  she  was  happy  for  herself,  she  was  sad  for  Kendra,  whose  really  pretty  face  would  not  be  seen  for  what  it  was  by  most  men  inthat  she  was  a  heavyset  girl  with  fat  on  her  shoulders  who  was  not  very  graceful  on  skates.  But,  Kendra  continued,  I  can't  see  what  you  see  in  him.  This  is  a  man  born  to  betray.  Still,  she  didn't  want  to  goback  to  skat-  ing  for  tips.  Coco  was  teaching  her  a  trade  that  suited  her  talents.  But  when,  after  just  a  couple  of  weeks,  Coco  decided  they  should  get  married,  she  admitted  to  herself  she  knew  nothing  about  him,  his  past,  his  family.  She  knew  nothing,  and  when  she  asked  he  just  laughed  and  said,  Babe,  I  am  an  orphan  in  the  storm,  just  like  you.  They  didn't  like  me  much  where  I  come  from,  but  asI  understand  it  neither  of  us  has  a  past  to  write  home  about,  he  said,  holding  her  and  kissing  her  neck.  What  counts  is  this  moment  here,  he  whispered,  and  the  future  moments  to  come.  She  said  the  name  Jolene  Leger,  pronounced  Lerjay,  se-  cretly  to  herself  and  thought  it  had  a  nice  lilt  to  it.  And  so  after  another  justice  of  the  peace  and  a  corsage  in  her  hand  and  a  flowered  dress  to  her  ankles  and  a  bottle  of  champagne,  she  was  in  fact  Jolene  Leger,  a  mar-  ried  woman  once  again.  They  went  back  to  the  two  rooms  above  the  store  and  smoked  dope  and  made  love,  with  Coco  singsonging  to  her  in  her  rhythm  Jolene  Jolene  shes  a  love  machine,  and  after  he  fell  asleep  and  began  to  snore  she  got  up  and  stood  at  the  window  and  looked  out  on  the  street.  It  was  three  in  the  morning  by  then,  but  all  the  street  lights  were  on  and  the  traffic  signals  were  going,  though  not  a  human  being  was  in  sight.  It  was  all  busyness  on  that  empty  street  in  its  silence,  all  the  store  signs  blazing  away,  the  neon  colors  in  the  windows,  the  laun-  dromat,  the  check-cashing  store,  the  one-  hour  photo  and  passport,  the  newsdealer,  the  coffee  shop,  and  the  dry  cleaner,  and  the  parking  meters  looking  made  of  gold  under  the  amber  light  of  the  street  lamps.  It  was  the  world  going  on  as  if  people  were  the  last  thing  it  needed  or  wanted.  She  found  herself  thinking  that  if  you  shaved  off  Coco's  scraggly  lip  beard  and  if  his  tattoos  could  be  scrubbed  away  and  you  took  off  his  boots  with  the  lifts  in  them  and  got  him  a  haircut  and  maybe  set  a  pair  of  eyeglasses  on  his  nose,  he  would  look  not  unlike  her  first  husband,  the  late  Mickey  Holler,  and  she  began  to  ery.  For  a  while,  she  was  sympathetic  to  Coco's  ways  and  wanted  to  believe  his  stories.  But  it  became  more  and  more  dif-  ficult.  He  was  away  in  his  damn  car  half  the  time,  leaving  her  to  man  the  shop  as  if  he  didn't  care  what  business  they  lost.  He  kept  all  the  moneys  to  himself.  She  realized  she  was  working  without  a  salary,  which  only  a  wife  would  do.  Who  else  would  stand  for  that?  It  was  a  kind  of  slavery,  wasn't  it?  Which  is  what  Kendra  said,  tactlessly,  when  she  came  to  visit.  Coco  was  critical  of  almost  everything  Jolene  did  or  said.  And  when  she  needed  money  for  groceries  or  some  such,  he  would  only  reluctantly  peeloffa  bill  or  two  from  his  carefully  hoarded  wad.  She  began  to  wonder  where  he  got  all  his  cash-certainly  not  from  the  tattooing  trade,  which  was  not  all  that  great  once  the  dry,  cold  [REDACTED]  winter  set  in.  And  when  a  reasonable-looking  woman  did  come  in  he  carried  on  saying  all  sorts  of  suggestive  things  as  if  they  were  the  only  two  people  in  the  room.  I  really  don't  like  that,  Jolene  told  him.  Not  at  all.  You  married  yourself  a  good-lookin'  stud,  Coco  said.  Get  used  to  it.  And  when  Jolene  found  herself  doing  a  snake  ora  whiskered  fish  for  some  muscleman,  and-as  you'd  expect,  working  so  close  up-he'd  come  on  to  her,  all  Coco  would  say  when  she  com-  plained  was,  hat's  what  makes  the  world  go  roun'.  She  became  miserable  on  a  daily  basis.  The  drugs  he  was  dealing  took  up  more  and  more  of  his  time,  and  when  she  confronted  him  he  didn't  deny  it.  In  fact,  he  said,  it  was  the  only  way  to  keep  the  shop  going.  You  should  know  without  I  have  to  tell  you,  Jolene,  no  art-  ist  in  this  [REDACTED]  can  make  it  he  don't  have  somethin'  on  the  side.  One  day,  a  taxicab  pulled  up  and  a  woman  carrying  a  baby  and  holding  a  valise  came  into  the  store.  She  was  a  blonde,  very  tall,  statuesqueeven,  and  al-  though  the  sign  was  clearly  printed  on  the  store  window,  she  said,  Is  this  the  In-  stitute  of  Body  Art  of  which  Coco  Leger    is  the  proprietor?  Jolene  nodded.  I  would  like  tosee  him,  please,  the  woman  said,  putting  the  valise  down  and  shifting  the  baby  from  one  arm  to  the  other.  She  looked  about  thirty  or  thirty-five,  and  she  was  wearing  a  hat  and  had  just  a  linen  jacket  and  a  yellow  dress  with  hose  and  shoes,  which  was  most  unusual  on  this  winter  day  in  Phoenix,  or  in  any  season  of  the  year,  for  that  matter,  where  you  didn't  see  anyone  who  wasn't  wearing  jeans.  Jo-  lene  had  the  weirdest  feeling  come  over  her.  She  felt  that  she  was  a  child  again.  She  was  back  in  childhood,  she'd  only  been  a  pretend  adult  andwas  not  Mrs.  Coco  Leger  except  in  her  stupid  dreams.  It  was  a  premonition.  She  looked  again  at  the  baby,  and  at  that  moment  knew  what  she  didn't  have  to  be  told-its  ancestry  was  written  all  over  its  runty  face.  All  it  lacked  was  little  lip  beard.  And  you  are?  Jolene  asked.  I  am  Marin  Leger,the  wife  of  that  fucking  son  of  a  bitch,  the  woman  said.  As  if  any  confirmation  was  needed,her  large  hand  coming  around  from  under  the  baby's  bottomhad  a  gold  band  impressed  into  the  flesh  of  its  fourth  finger.  I  have  spent  every  cent  I  had  tracking  him  down  and  I  want  to  see  him  now,  this  very  instant,  the  woman  said.  A  moment  later,  as  if  a  powerful  magic  had  been  in-  voked,  Coco's  Caddy  rolled  to  the  curb,  and  it  may  have  been  worth  everything  to  see  the  stunned  expression  on  his  face  as  he  gotout  of  the  car  and  both  saw  Marin  Leger  andwas  seen  by  her  through  the  shopwindow.  But,  being  Coco,  he  recov-  ered  nicely.  His  face  lit  up,  and  he  waved  as  if  he  couldn't  have  been  more  de-  lighted,  and  came  through  the  doorwith  a  grin.  Looka  this,  he  said.  Will  ya  looka  this!  he  said,  his  arms  spread  wide.  Be-  cause  she  was  the  taller  of  the  two,  the  hug  he  gaveher  mashed  his  face  against  the  baby  in  her  arms,  who  commenced  to  ery  loudly.  And  as  Coco  stepped  back  he  suffered  the  free  hand  of  the  woman  smartly  against  his  cheek.  Now,  darlin',  just  be  cool,  he  told  her.  There  is  an  explanation  for  everthin'.  Come  with  me-we  have  to  talk,  he  said,  as  if  he'd  been  waiting  for  her  all  along,.  Believe  it  or  not,  I  am  greatly  relieved  to  see  you,  he  said  to  her.  He  took  no  further  notice  of  the  kid  in  her  arms,  and  as  he  picked  up  her  bag  and  ushered  her  out  the  door  he  looked  back  at  Jolene  and  told  her  out  of  the  side  of  his  mouth  to  hold  tight,  to  hold  tight,  and  outside  he  gallantly  opened  the  car  door  for  Marin  Leger  and  sat  her  and  their  baby  down  and  went  off  with  them  in  the  plum-color  1965  Caddy  convertible  he  had  once  driven  up  every  day  to  see  Jolene  wiggle  her  ass  on  skates.  Jolene,Jolene,  of  the  Dairy  Queen,  she  is  so  mean,  she  smashed  the  machinery.  ...  She  had  never  been  so  calm  in  her  life  as  she  quietly  and  methodically  trashed  Coco's  Institute  of  Body  Art,  turning  over  the  autoclave,  pulling  down  the  flash  posters,  banging  the  tattoo  guns  by  their  cables  against  the  rear  exposed-brick  wall  until  they  cracked,  scattering  the  needle  bars,  pouring  the  inks  on  the  floor,  pulling  the  display  case  of  316L  stainless-steel  body  jewelry  off  the  wall,  tearing  the  paper-  back  tattoo  books  in  the  rotating  stand.  She  smashed  the  director's  chairs  to  pieces,  and  threw  a  metal  footstool  through  the  back-door  window.  She  went  upstairs,  and,  suddenly  aware  for  the  first  time  how  their  rooms  smelled  of  his  disgusting  unwashed  body,  she  busted  up  everything  she  could,  tore  up  the  bed-  ding,  swept  everything  out  of  the  medi-  cine  cabinet,  and  pulled  down  the  cur-  tains  she  had  chosen  to  make  the  place  more  homey.  She  took  an  armful  of  her  clothes  and  stuffed  them  into  two  paper  sacks,  and  when  she  found  in  a  shoebox  on  their  closet  shelf  a  zip-lock  plastic  bag  with  another  inside  it  packed  with  white  stuff  that  felt  under  the  thumb  like  bak-  ing  powder  she  left  it  exactly  where  it  was  and,  downstairs  again,  cleaned  out  the  few  dollars  in  the  cash  register,  picked  up  the  phone,  left  a  precise  message  for  the  Phoenix  PD.,  and,  putting  up  the  Back  in  Five  sign,  she  slammed  the  door  behind  her  and  was  gone.  She  was  still  dry-eyed  when  she  went  to  the  pawnshop  two  blocks  away  and  got  fifteendollars  for  her  wedding  band.  She  waited  at  the  storefront  travel  agency  where  the  buses  stopped,  and  didn't  begin  to  ery  till  she  wondered,  for  the  first  time  in  along  time,  who  her  mom  and  dad  might  have  been,  and  if  they  were  still  alive,  as  she  thought  they  must  be  if  they  were  too  young  to  do  anything  but  name  her  Jolene  and  leave  her  for  the  authorities  to  raise.  n  [REDACTED],  she  waitressed  at  a  coffee  shop  till  she  had  enough  money  to  have  her  hair  straightened,  which  is  what  the  im-  presario  of  the  Starlet  Topless  told  her  she  had  to  do  if  she  wanted  a  job.  So  if  she  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  shook  her  head  as  she  leaned  back,  hold-  ing  onto  the  brass  pole,  her  hair  swished  back  and  forth  across  her  shoulders.  Wearing  a  thong  and  high  heels  was  not  the  most  comfortable  thing  in  the  world,  but  she  got  the  idea  quickly  enough  and  became  popular  as  the  most  petite  girl  in  the  place.  The  other  girls  liked  her,  too-  they  called  her  Baby,  and  watched  out  for  her.  She  rented  a  room  in  the  apartment  of  a  couple  of  them.  Even  the  bouncer  was  solicitous  after  she  lied  to  him  that  she  was  involved.  When  she  met  Sal,  a  distinguished  gray-haired  man  of  some  girth,  it  was  at  the  request  of  the  manager,  who  took  her  to  a  table  intheback.  That  this  man  Sal  chose  not  to  sit  at  the  bar  and  stare  up  her  ass  suggested  to  her  he  was  not  the  usual  bum  who  came  into  Starlets.  He  was  a  gentleman  who,  though  not  married,  had  several  grandchildren.  The  first  thing  he  did  on  their  first  date  when  she  came  up  to  his  penthouse  suite  was  show  her  their  pictures.  That's  the  kind  of  solid  citizen  Mr.  Sal  Fontaine  was.  She  stood  at  the  window  looking  out  over  all  of  [REDACTED].  Quiet  and  soft-spoken,  Sal  was  not  onlya  dear  man,  as  she  came  to  know  him,  but  one  highly  respected  as  the  founder  and  owner  of  Sal's  Line,  with  an  office  and  banks  of  phones  with  operators  taking  calls  from  people  all  over  the  country  wanting  Sal's  Line  on  everything  from  horses  to  who  would  be  the  next  President.  Without  cere-  mony,  which  was  his  way,  he  put  a  dia-  mond  choker  on  her  neck  and  asked  her  to  move  in  with  him.  She  couldn't  be-  lieve  her  luck,  living  with  a  man  highly  regarded  in  the  community  in  his  pent-  house  suite  of  six  rooms  overlooking  all  of  [REDACTED].  It  had  maid  service  every  morning.  From  the  French  restaurant  downstairs  you  could  order  dinner  on  a  rolling  cart  that  turned  into  a  table.  Sal  bought  her  clothes,  shesigned  his  name  at  the  beauty  parlor,  and  when  they  went  out,  though  he  was  so  busy  it  was  not  that  often,  she  was  treated  with  respect  by  the  greeters,  and  by  Sal's  associates,  mostly  gentlemen  of  the  same  age  range  as  his.  She  was  totally  overwhelmed.  With  all  the  leggy  ass  in  Las  [REDACTED],  imagine,  little  Jolene,treated  like  a  prin-  cess!  And  not  only  that  butwith  time  on  her  hands  to  develop  a  line  of  her  own,  of  greeting  cards  she  drew,  psychedelic  in  style,  sometimes  inspired  by  her  expe-  109  rience  with  tattoo  designs  but  always  with  sentiments  of  loving  family  rela-  tionships  that  she  dreamed  up,  as  if  she  knew  all  about  it.  She  never  thought  she  could  be  so  happy.  Sal  liked  her  to  climb  all  over  him,  he  liked  her  to  be  on  top,  and  they  were  very  tender  and  caressing  of  one  another,  certainly  on  her  part,  because  al-  ways  in  the  back  of  her  mind  was  the  fear  of  his  overexerting  himself.  And  he  talked  so  quietly  and  he  believed  or  pre-  tended  to  believe  her  life  story,  the  parts  that  were  made  up  as  well  as  the  parts  that  were  true.  As  she  became  used  to  the  life,  she  re-  flected  that  Sal  Fontaine  did  not  give  of  himself  easily.  It  wasn'ta  matter  of  his  material  generosity.  He  never  confided  in  her.  There  was  a  distance  in  him,  or  maybe  even  a  gloom,  that  for  all  his  suc-  cess  he  could  not  change  in  himself.  If  she  had  questions,  if  she  was  curious,  she  met  a  wall.  He  moved  slowly,  as  if  the  air  set  up  a  resistance  just  to  him.  When  he  smiled,  it  was  a  sad  smile,  de-  spite  his  capped  teeth.  And  he  had  heavy  jowls  and  hooded  sad  eyes  made  darker  by  the  deep  blue  pouches  under  them.  Maybe  he  could  not  forget  what  he  had  lost,  his  old  country  or  his  original  fam-  ily,  who  was  she  to  say?  She  would  tell  him  she  loved  him,  and  at  the  moment  she  said  it  she  did.  The  rest  of  the  time  she  sort  of  shrugged  to  herself.  The  contractual  nature  of  their  relationship  was  all  too  clear  to  her,  and  she  began  to  suspect  that  the  regard  Sal's  friends  held  for  her  was  not  what  they  might  have  expressed  among  them-  selves.  Her  life,  once  the  novelty  wore  off,  was  like  eating  cotton  candy  all  day  long.  Her  long  straight  red  hair  now  shone  with  highlights.  In  the  mornings,  she  would  swim  in  the  Olympic-size  hotel  pool  with  her  hair  in  a  single  braid,  trailing.  She  was  this  Jolene  person  who  wore  different  [REDACTED]-style  outfits  de-  pending  on  the  time  of  day  or  night.  She  saw  herself  in  an  I.  Magnin  fitting-  room  mirror  oneday  and  the  word  that  came  to  her  mind  was  &quot;hard.&quot;  When  had  it  happened  that  she'd  taken  on  that  set  of  the  mouth  and  stony  gaze  of  the  Las  [REDACTED]  bimbo?  Jesus.  One  evening,  they  were  sitting  watch,  ing  television,  and  Sal  said,  out  of  the  blue,  that  she  didn't  have  to  worry,  she  would  be  taken  care  of,  he  would  settle  something  on  her.  Thank  you,  sweet-  heart,  she  said,  not  knowing  exactly  how  or  when  he  would  do  that  but  under-  standing  the  essential  meaning:  that  she  was  in  a  situation  designed  not  to  last.  The  next  morning,  she  took  all  her  greeting-card  designs  to  a  print  shop  at  the  edge  of  town  and  spent  two  hours  making  decisions  about  the  stock  she  wanted,  the  layouts,  the  typefaces,  the  amounts  to  print  of  each  item,  and  so  on.  It  was  real  business,  and  it  made  her  feel  good,  even  though  she  had  no  idea  who  would  distribute  her  cards,  let  alone  who  wouldbuy  them.  Step  by  step,  she  told  herself  in  the  cab  back.  Step  by  step.  A  week  later,  the  phone  rang  just  when  they  were  getting  up,  and  Sal  told  her  quickly  to  get  dressed  andgo  have  breakfast  in  the  coffee  shop  because  some  men  were  coming  for  a  meeting.  She  said  that  was  O.K.,  she  would  stay  out  of  the  way  in  the  bedroom  with  a  cup  of  coffee  and  the  Suz.  Don't  argue,  he  shouted,  and  threw  a  dress  at  her  face.  She  was  speech-  less-he  had  never  yelled  at  her  before.  Shewas  waiting  for  the  elevator  when  the  doors  opened  and  they  came  out,  the  men  to  meet  with  Sal.  She  saw  them  and  they  saw  her,  two  of  them  looking,  like  so  many  of  the  men  in  [REDACTED],  as  if  they  had  never  felt  the  sun  on  their  face.  But  then  in  the  coffee  shop  it  dawned  on  her.  She  all  at  once  turned  cold  and  then  sickto  her  stomach.  She  ran  to  the  ladies'  and  sat  there  in  a  cold  sweat.  Such  stories  as  you  heard  were  never  supposed  to  intrude  into  your  own  life.  How  long  didshe  sit  there?  When  she  found  the  courage  to  come  out,  and  then  out  of  the  coffee  shop  into  the  lobby,  she  saw  an  ambulance  at  the  front  entrance.  She  stood  in  the  crowd  that  gathered,  and  saw  the  elevator  doors  openand  someone  withanoxygen  mask  over  his  face  and  hooked  up  to  an  intravenous  line  being  wheeled  on  a  gurney  through  the  lobby.  That  it  was  Sal  Fontaine  was  quickly  agreed  upon  by  everyone.  Exactly  what     10  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23  &amp;  30,  2002  had  happened  to  him  was  less  clear.  Fi-  nally,  a  police  officer  walking  by  said  it  was  a  heart  attack.  A  heart  attack.  She  did  not  even  have  her  purse,  just  the  orange  print  mini  she  was  wearing,  and  the  sandals.  She  didn't  evenhave  any  makeup-she  had  nothing.  She  saw  the  name  of  the  hospital  on  the  ambu-  lance  as  it  drove  off  and  decided  to  go  upstairs  and  put  something  on  and  take  a  cab  there.  But  she  couldn't  move.  She  walked  up  the  winding  staircase  to  the  mezzanine  and  sat  in  an  armchair  with  her  hands  between  her  knees.  Finally,  she  got  up  the  courage  to  goback  to  the  penthouse  floor.  If  it  was  a  heart  at-  tack,  what  were  the  police  and  TV  cam-  eras  doing  there?  Everyone  in  the  world  was  in  the  corridor,  and  the  door  to  the  apartment  was  sealed  with  yellow  tape  and  under  guard,  and  everything  was  out  of  her  reach-Mr.  Sal  Fontaine  and  all  her  clothes  and  her  diamond  choker,  and  even  the  money  he  had  given  her  over  time,  despite  the  fact  that  he  never  al-  lowed  her  to  pay  for  anything.  She  had  over  a  thousand  dollars  in  the  drawer  on  her  side  of  thebed.  She  knew  that  eventually  she  could  reclaim  it  if  she  wanted  to  be  questioned  by  the  police.  But  whatever  was  to  happen  to  her  now  might  not  be  as  bad  as  what  would  hap-  pen  if  she  risked  it.  Even  if  she  told  them  nothing,  what  would  Sal's  Line  be  on  her  chances  of  living  to  her  nineteenth  birth-  day,  which  happened  to  be  the  nextday?  He  was  not  around  to  tell  her.  Which  is  how  life  changes,  as  light-  ning  strikes,  and  in  an  instant  what  was  is  not  what  is,  andyou  find  yourself  sitting  on  a  rock  at  the  edge  of  the  desert,  hop-  ing  some  bus  will  come  by  and  take  pity  on  you  before  you're  found  lying  dead  there  like  any  other  piece  of  road  kill.  wo  years  later,  Jolene  was  living  alone  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  She  had  heard  from  a  truck  driver  at  a  whistle  stop  in  north  [REDACTED],  where  she  was  wait-  ing  tables,  that  [REDACTED]  was  a  boomtown  with  not  enough  people  for  all  the  jobs.  She'd  taken  a  room  at  a  women's  residen-  tial  hotel  and  first  found  work,  part  time,  in  the  public  library  shelving  books,  and  then  full  time  as  a  receptionist  at  a  firm  that  leased  oil-drilling  equipment.  She  had  not  been  with  anyone  in  a  while,  but  it  was  kind  of  nice,  actually.  Shewas  sur-  prised  at  how  pleasant  life  could  be  when  you  were  on  your  own.  She  liked  the  way  she  felt  walking  in  the  street  or  sitting  at  a  desk.  Self-contained.  Nothing  begging  inside  her.  I  have  come  of  age,  she  told  herself.  I  have  come  of  age.  To  make  some  extra  cash,  she  worked  after  hours  on  call  for  a  caterer.  She  had  to  invest  in  the  uniform-white  blouse,  black  trousers,  and  black  purips-but  each  time  she  was  called  it  meant  sixty  dollars  for  a  minimum  three  hours.  She  wore  her  hair  in  the  single  braid  down  her  back  and  she  kept  her  eyes  lowered,  as  instructed,  but,  even  so,  managed  to  see  a  good  deal  of  the  upper  crust  of  [REDACTED].  She  was  serving  champagne  on  a  tray  at  a  private  party  one  evening  when  this  six-footer  with  blow-dried  hair  appeared  before  her.  He  was  good-looking  and  he  knew  it.  He  grabbed  a  glass  of  cham-  pagne,  drank  it  off,  and  took  another  and  followed  her  into  the  kitchen.  He  didn't  get  anything  out  of  her  except  her  name,  but  he  tracked  her  down  through  the  caterer  and  sent  her  flowers  with  a  note,  signed  Brad  G.  Benton,  asking  her  out  to  dinner.  Nobody  in  all  her  life  had  ever  done  that.  So  she  bought  herself  a  dress  and  went  out  to  dinner  with  Brad  G.  Benton  at  the  country  club,  where  the  table  linen  was  starched  and  there  were  crystal  wineglasses  and  padded  red  leather  chairs  with  brass  studs.  She  wouldn't  remem-  ber  what  she  ate.  She  sat  and  listened  with  her  hands  in  her  lap.  She  didn't  have  to  say  much-he  did  all  the  talking.  Brad  G.Benton  was  not  thirty-five  and  already  a  senior  V.P.  at  this  stock  broker-  age  where  they  kept  on  giving  him  bo-  nuses.  He  didn't  want  just  to  get  her  in  bed.  He  said  that  since  Jesus  had  come  into  his  heart  the  only  really  good  sex  re-  maining  to  him  was  connubial  sex.  He  said,  Of  course,  you  need  someone  pre-  cious  and  special  enough  for  that,  like  you,  Jolene,  and  looked  deeply  into  her  eyes.  At  first,  she  couldn't  believe  he  was  se-  rious.  After  a  couple  of  more  dates,  she  re-  alized  he  was.  She  was  thinking  Brad  G.  Benton  must  be  crazy.  On  the  other  hand,  this  was  the  Bible  Belt,  she  had  seen  these  super-sincere  people  at  her  recep-  tionist's  job.  They  might  be  rich  and  do  sophisticated  business  around  the  world,  but  they  were  true  believers  in  God's  written  word  with  no  ifs,  ands,  or  buts.  From  the  looks  of  things  it  was  a  knock-  out  combination,  though  a  little  weird,     &quot;Fortunately,  the  law  of  the  jungle  doesn't  require  lawyers  of  the  jungle.&quot;  like  they  had  one  foot  in  the  boardroom  and  one  in  Heaven.  You  don't  know  anything  about  me,  Jolene  told  him,  in  an  effort  to  satisfy  her-  self  of  her  integrity.  I  expect  soon  to  know  everything,  he  said,  flashing  a  big  hand-  some  smile  that  could  have  been  a  leer.  He  was  so  damn  cocky.  She  almost  re-  sented  that  there  was  never  any  doubt  in  his  mind  as  to  what  she  would  say.  He  in-  sisted  she  quit  herjob  and  move  to  a  hotel  at  his  expense  until  the  wedding  day.  Oh,  what  day  is  that?  she  said,  teasing,  but  he  was  awild  man:  The  engagement  will  necessarily  be  short,  he  said,  slipping  a  diamond  ring  on  her  finger.  A  week  later,  they  were  married  in  the  chapel  of  the  First  Methodist  Church  there  in  [REDACTED]  that  looked  like  Winches-  ter  Cathedral.  Brad  G.  Benton  brought  her  to  live  inhis  apartment  in  a  new  building  that  had  a  swimming  pool  in  the  basement  and  a  gym  on  the  roof.  They  were  high  enough  to  see  out  over  the  whole  city,  though  there  wasn't  that  much  to  seein  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  So  once  more  her  fortunes  had  changed  and  little  Jolene  was  a  young  matron  of  the  upper  class.  She  wanted  to  write  to  someone  about  this  incredible  turn  in  her  life,  but  who  could  she  write  to?  Who?  There  wasno  one.  In  that  sense,  nothing  had  changed,  because  she  was  as  alone  as  she  had  always  been,  a  stranger  in  a  strange  land.  Things  in  the  marriage  were  O.K.  at  first,  though  some  of  Brad  G.  Benton's  ideas  were  not  to  her  taste.  He  was  very  athletic,  and  no  sooner  satisfied  in  one  orifice  than  she  was  turned  over  for  the  other.  Also,  he  seemed  not  to  notice  her  art  work.  Shehad  bought  an  easel  and  set  up  a  little  studio  in  what  was  designed  to  be  the  maid's  room,  because  the  Indian  woman  who  cooked  and  cleaned  had  her  own  home  to  go  to  each  evening.  Jolene  painted  there  and  stretched  her  canvases,  and  she  took  a  figure-painting  class  once  a  week  where  there  were  live  models.  She  did  well,  her  teacher  was  very  encourag-  ing,  but  Brad  took  none  of  this  in,  he  just  didn't  notice-he  was  too  busy  with  his  work  and  his  workouts  and  his  nights  out  and  his  nights  in  her.  It  turned  out  Brad  G.  Benton's  family  was  prominent  in  [REDACTED].  Not  one  of  them  had  come  to  the  wedding,  their  purpose  being  to  define  to  her  what  white  trash  meant.  At  first  she  didn't  care  that  much.  But  she'd  see  their  pictures  in  the  news-  papers  being  honored  at  charity  events.  They  had  wings  of  buildings  named  after  them.  One  day,  coming  from  shopping,  she  looked  out  the  cab  window  as  it  passed  a  glass  office  tower  that  said  Benton  In-  ternational  on  a  giant  brass  cube  balanced  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  23&amp;  30,  2002  LJ  on  one  of  its  corners  in  the  plaza  out  front.  She  said  to  Brad,  I  would  thinkthey  had  more  respect  for  you,  if  not  for  me.  But  he  only  laughed.  It  was  not  so  much  that  he  was  a  democrat  in  his  ideals,  as  she  was  to  realize;  it  was  part  of  his  life's  work  to  do  outrageous  things  and  raise  hell.  It  was  how  he  kept  everyone's  attention.  He  loved  to  twist  noses  out  of  joint.  He  was  contrary.  He  hadn't  joined  the  Benton  family  enterprise,  as  he  was  supposed  to-it  was  aholding  company  with  many  different  kinds  of  businesses  in  their  hands-but  had  gone  off  on  his  own  to  show  what  he  was  made  of.  Jolene  knew  that  if  she  wanted  to  prove  anything  to  this  family,  if  she  wanted  any  kind  of  social  acceptance  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  she  would  have  to  work  for  it.  She  would  have  to  start  reading  books  and  takea  course  or  two  in  some-  thing  intellectual  and  embrace  the  style  of  life,  the  manners,  the  ways  of  doing  and  talking  by  being  patient  and  keeping  her  eyes  and  ears  open.  She  would  attend  their  church,  too.  As  wild  as  he  was,  Brad  was  like  his  father,  what  he  called  a  strong  Christian.  That  was  the  one  place  they  would  have  to  meet  and,  she  was  willing  to  bet,  speak  to  one  another.  And  how  then  could  the  family  not  speak  to  her?  Oddly  enough,  she  was  looking  as  good  as  she  ever  had,  andBrad  took  her  once  a  week  to  dinner  at  the  country  club  to  show  her  off.  By  then,  everyone  in  town  knew  this  so-called  Cinderella  story.  Grist  for  the  mill.  He  was  heedless,  he  just  didn't  worry  about  it,  whereas  she  could  hardly  raise  her  head.  One  evening,  his  fa-  ther  and  mother  were  sitting  at  a  far  table  with  their  guests,  who  looked  as  if  they  were  there  to  serve  them  as  much  as  the  waiters.  Brad  waved-it  was  more  like  a  salute-and  the  father  nodded  and  re-  sumed  his  conversation.  Through  no  fault  of  her  own,  Jolene  had  stepped  into  a  situation  that  was  mal-  ing  her  life  miserable.  Whatever  was  going  on  with  these  people,  what  did  it  have  to  do  with  her?  Nothing.  She  was  as  nothing.  To  tell  the  truth,  she  had  made  Brad  for  a  creep  that  first  time  he  cameon  to  her  at  that  cocktail  party.  He'd  padded  into  the  kitchen,  stalking  her  like  some  animal,  taken  the  empty  champagne  tray  out  of  her  hands,  and  told  her  redheads  smelled  different.  And  he  stood  there  sniffing  her  and  going,  Hmm,  yes,  like  warm  milk.  fter  her  baby  was  born,  when  Brad  G.  Benton  started  to  bat  her  around,  Jolene  could  not  help  but  remember  that  first  impression.  Every  little  thingdrove  him  crazy.It  got  so  she  couldn't  do  anything,  say  anything,  without  he  would  go  off  half-cocked.  He  took  to  hitting  her,  slapping  her  face,  punching  her.  What  are  you  doing,  she  screamed.  Stop  it,  stop  it!  It  was  his  new   way  of  getting  off.  He  would  say,  You  like  this?  You  like  it?  He'd  knock  her  around,  then  push  her  down  on  the  bed.  She  grew  accustomed  to  living  in  fear  of  getting  beaten  up  and  forced  against  her  will.  She  was  still  to  learn  what  they  would  teach  at  the  shelter-it  happens  once,  that's  it,  you  leave.  But  now  she  just  tried  to  see  it  through.  Brad  G.  Benton  had  been  to  college,  he  came  of  money,  andhewore  good  clothes,  and  she  was  flattered  that  he  would  fall  for  her  when  she  didn't  even  have  a  high-school  diploma.  And  then,  of  course,  there  were  the  apologies  and  the  beggings  for  forgiveness  and  the  praying  in  church  together,  and  by  such  means  she  slowly  became  a  routinely  abused  wife.  Only  when  it  was  all  over  would  she  realize  it  wasn't  just  having  the  baby;  it  was  their  plans  for  him,  the  Bentons'  plans  for  her  Mr.  Nipplebee.  He  was  an  heir,  after  all.  The  minute  they'd  found  out  she  was  pregnant,  they  went  to  work.  And  after  he  was  born  they  slowly  gave  it  to  Brad  in  bits  and  pieces,  what  their  in-  vestigators  had  learned  about  her  life  be-  fore.  Never  mind  that  she  had  tried  to  tell  Brad  about  her  marriages,  her  life  on  the  road;  he  never  wanted  to  hear  it,  he  had  no  curiosity  about  her,  none.  He  had  blessed  her  with  his  insanity.  Shehad  ap-  peared  in  [REDACTED]  as  a  vision,  God's  chosen  sex  partner  for  him,  a  fresh  and  wet  and  shining  virgin  with  red  hair.  All  those  beatings  were  what  he  was  told,  and  all  those  apologies  were  the  way  his  love  for  her  was  hanging  on.  She  would  feel  sorry  for  him  if  she  could,  because  he  was  so  wired,  such  a  maniac-it  was  as  if  his  wildness,  his  independent  choice  of  life  was  being  driven  from  him,  as  if  it  was  the  Devil.  It  was  those  parents  slowly  absorb-  ing  him  back  into  their  righteousness.  One  day,  Brad  G.  Benton  appeared  at  the  door  to  her  little  studio  room  when  he  would  ordinarily  be  at  work.  Shewas  rul-  ing  off  a  grid  on  one  of  her  canvases,  as  she  had  been  taught.  Brad!  she  said,  smiling.  But  there  was  no  recognition  in  his  eyes.  He  kicked  the  stool  out  from  under  her.  He  broke  the  easel  over  his  knee,  he  bashed  her  canvases  against  the  wall,  tore  down  the  drawings  she  had  pinned  up  there,  and  then  he  squeezed  tubes  of  paint  into  her  face  as  he  held  her  down  on  the  floor.  And  he  began  hitting  her  as  she  lay  there,  he  punched  her  face,  he  punched  her  in  the  throat.  When  he  got  off  her,  she  could  hear  his  breathing-it  was  like  crying.  He  stood  over  her,  kicked  her  in  the  side,  and  as  suddenly  as  he  had  come  he  was  gone.  She  lay  there  moaning  in  pain,  too  frightened  and  shocked  even  to  get  up,  until  she  thought  of  the  baby.  She  dragged  herself  to  the  nursery.  The  Cherokee  woman,  who  had  heard  everything,  sat  beside  the  crib  with  her  hand  over  her  eyes.  But  the  baby  was  sleeping  peacefully.  Jolene  washed  her  face,  and,  wrapping  up  her  Mr.  Nipplebee,  she  took  him  with  her  as  she  dragged  herself  to  a  doctor.  She  was  told  that  she  had  had  her  cheekbone  fractured,  two  broken  ribs,  contusions  of  the  throat,  and  a  bruised  kidney.  How  did  this  happen?  the  doctor  asked  her.  She  was  afraid  to  tell  him  and,  besides,  it  hurt  too  much  to  talk.  But  the  nurse  in  the  of-  fice  didn't  have  to  be  told.  She  wrote  out  the  name  and  address  of  a  women's  shel-  ter  and  said,  Go  there  right  now  I'll  order  you  a  cab.  And  in  that  way,  with  her  pre-  cious  in  her  arms  and  only  what  she  was  wearing,  Jolene  left  her  marriage.  She  could  hardly  bear  staying  at  the  shelter,  where  there  were  these  wimpy  women  looking  for  her  friendship,  her  companionship.  Jolene  wouldn't  even  go  to  the  group  sessions.  She  stayed  by  her-  self  and  nursed  Mr.  Nipplebee.  The  shelter  gave  her  the  name  of  a  woman  lawyer,  and  she  put  down  a  re-  tainer.  Get  me  a  divorce  as  fast  as  you  can,  she  told  the  lawyer.  The  money,  I  don't  care.  I'll  take  anything  they  give.  I  just  want  out  of  here  and  out  of  [REDACTED],  Okla-  homa.  And  then  she  waited,  and  waited,  and  nothing  happened.  Absolutely  noth-  ing.  This  went  on  for  some  time.  And  the  next  thing  Jolene  knew,  when  she  was  about  stripped  of  her  savings,  the  lawyer  quit  on  her.  She  was  an  older  woman,  who  wore  pin-striped  suits  and  big  loopy  bronze  earrings.  I  may  be  broke,  Jolene  said  to  her,  but  Brad  G.  Benton  has  money  to  burn,  and  I  can  pay  you  afterward  out  of  the  alimony  or  child  care.  You  didn't  tell  me  you  had  a  past  in-  cluding  a  stretch  in  juvenile  detention,  the  lawyer  said.  To  say  nothing  of  apre-  vious,  as  yet  un-annulled  marriage  to  a  convicted  drug  dealer.  Jolene  was  so  stunned  she  didn't  think  to  ask  how  the  lawyer  knew  that  if  she  hadn't  told  her.  Shewas  up  against  a  scumbag  hus-  band  on  his  own  turf,  so  what  could  she  expect  but  that  there  was  worse  to  come,  as  there  was,  if  he  knew  all  along  where  she  was  hiding,  and  if  he  knew  by  first  name  everyone  in  town,  as  he  probably  did  the  very  police  officers  who  came  one  morning  to  arrest  her  for  unlawful  kidnapping  of  her  own  child,  who  they  took  from  her  arms,  driving  him  off  in  one  squad  car  and  Jolene  in  another  as  she  looked  back  screaming.  I  don't  want  to  hear  about  what  is  the  law  in  this  country  and  what  is  not,  Jo-  lene  told  the  legal-aid  person  who  was  assigned  to  her.  Do  you  know  what  it  means  to  have  your  child  torn  from  you?  Do  you  have  to  have  that  happen  to  you  to  know  it  is  worse  than  death?  You  want  to  kill  yourself  but  you  can't  for  thinking  of  the  child's  welfare  in  the  hands  of  a  sick  father  who  never  smiled  at  him  and  was  jealous  of  him  from  the  day  he  was  born.  My  baby,  she  said  aloud  when  she  was  alone.  My  baby.  He  had  her  coloring  and  button  nose  and  carrot-red  fuzz  for  hair.  He  drank  from  her  with  a  born  knowledge  of  what  was  expected  of  him.  He  was  a  whole  new  life  in  her  arms,  and  for  the  very  first  time  she  could  remember  she  had  had  something  she  wanted.  She  was  Jolene,  his  mother,  and  could  believe  in  God,  who  had  never  before  seemed  to  her  to  be  much  of  a  fact  of  life.  And  so  now  there  was  a  hearing  for  the  divorce  Brad  had  filed  for.  And  his  whole  miserable  family  was  there,  they  loved  him  after  all,  now  that  he  was  getting  rid  of  her  and  her  past  was  thrown  in  her  face.  They  had  it  all  down,  including  the  medical  records  of  her  S.T.D.  from  Coco,  her  living  in  sin,  and  even  her  suspension  one  term  at  Jeff  Davis  High  for  smoking  pot.  It  was  a  no-brainer.  Her  legal-aid  kid  was  out  of  his  league,  and  without  giving  it  much  thought  the  judge  ruled  she  was  an  unfit  mother  and  granted  Brad  G.  Ben-  ton  sole  custody  of  her  Mr.  Nipplebee.  On  top  of  everything,  in  the  fullness  of  her  milk  that  she  had  to  pump  out,  she  must  have  done  something  wrong,  be-  cause  she  ended  up  in  the  hospital  with  a  staph  infection  that  had  to  be  drained-  like  the  milk  had  gone  bad  and  turned  green.  But  she  had  a  chance  to  think.  She  thought  of  her  choices.  She  could  kill  Brad  G.  Benton-it'd  be  simple  enough  to  buy  some  kind  of  gun  and  wait  on  him-but  then  the  baby  would  be  raised  by  the  Benton  family.  So  what  was  the  point?  She  could  find  a  job  and  see  the  baby  every  second  Sunday  for  one  hour,  as  allowed  by  the  judge,  and  rely  on  the  pass-  ing  of  time  for  the  moment  when  nobody  was  looking  and  she  could  steal  him  back  and  run  for  it.  But  then  on  her  first  visita-  tion  what  happened  was  that  Brad  was  up  in  the  gym  and  a  new  large  Indian  woman  was  with  Mr.  Nipplebee,  and  Brad's  crone  of  a  mother  stood  with  her  back  to  the  door  and  they  wouldn't  let  Jolene  hold  him  but  just  sit  by  the  crib  and  watch  him  sleep.  And  she  thought,  If  I  stay  on  in  [REDACTED]  for  my  visitations,  he  will  grow  up  learning  to  think  of  me  as  an  embarrassment,  a  poor  relative,  and  I  can't  have  that.  hese  days,  Jolene  has  a  job  in  West  [REDACTED]  inking  for  a  small  comic-book  company,  except  they  don't  call  them  comic  books-they  call  them  graphic  novels.  Because  most  of  them  aren't  funny  at  all.  They  are  very  serious.  She  likes  the  people  at  worls-they  are  all  good  pals  and  go  out  for  pizza  together.  But  where  she  lives  is  down  near  the  farmers'  market  in  a  studio  apartment  that  is  sacred  to  her.  Nobody  can  come  in,  no  matter  how  good  a  friend.  She  has  a  little  stereo  for  her  Keith  Jarrett  CDs  and  she  lights  a  candle  and  drinksa  little  wine  and  dreams  of  plans  for  herself.  She  thinks  someday,  when  she  has  more  ex-  perience,  of  writing  a  graphic  novel  of  her  own,  &quot;The  Life  of  Jolene.&quot;  She  has  a  pastel  sketch  she  once  did  of  her  precious  baby.  It  is  so  sweet!  It's  the  only  likeness  she  has.  Sometimes  she  looks  at  this  sketch  and  then  at  her  own  face  in  the  mirror,  and  because  he  takes  after  her  in  his  coloring  and  features,  she  tries  to  draw  what  he  might  look  like  at  his  present  age,  which  is  four  and  a  half.  Friends  tell  Jolene  she  could  act  in  movies,  because  she  may  be  twenty-five  but  she  looks  a  lot  younger.  And  they  like  her  voice,  which,  courtesy  of  her  ex-  husband,  cracks  like  Janice  Joplin's.  And  her  crooked  smile,  which  she  doesn't  tell  them  is  the  result  of  a  busted  cheekbone.  So  she's  had  some  photos  taken  and  is  sending  them  out  to  professional  agents.  I  mean,  why  not?  Jolene  says  to  her-  self.  She  has  this  daydream.  Her  son  sees  her  up  on  the  screen  one  day.  And  when  she  takes  herself  back  to  [REDACTED]  in  her  Rolls-Royce  Silver  Cloud  he  answers  the  door  and  rushes  into  the  arms  of  his  movie-star  mother. 