THE TRIALS OF FINCH
By Zadie Smith

SAY HELLO TO FINCH
Finch had three friends: Claire, Karen, and Jemima. These were tall, lucky, professional Englishwomen in their early forties who had been ever so kind to Finch, and who felt, with some reason, that they had saved her. Ten years ago, when Finch first entered their circle, these three women were married, they had families and intricate lives, and Finch had no one and nothing. It was a friendship so unlikely it had the color of charity. By befriending her, they plucked poor Finch from the very edge of something. Stopped her from slipping down a notch to join the lonely mad, who were visible everywhere in Hampstead, with their sticks and props and wigs, spitting, effortful, bent. Because of her friends, Finch was not one of these people. She had a job and did not fear the [REDACTED] Underground or any of its African employees with their blue caps and bloodshot eyes. She had been persuaded (after a battle!) to give up long, bright socks and men’s suspenders. She no longer kept food loose in her pockets. It turned out that Finch wasn’t mad at all—she was only an eccentric.
And this, exactly this, is what Claire had sensed about Finch the day they met on Hampstead Heath, as Claire walked her Labrador, Charlie, up a hill: this woman needs only a little tolerance, kindness. Claire was a school administrator, and used to people with difficulties. She had waited a patient minute for Finch to release the catch of her stutter and ask if she might touch the beautiful dog. Claire was struck by the guileless, awkward, yet overflowing way Finch expressed herself; the apologetic, sloping walk. Three times they bumped into each other before Finch found herself invited to tea. Through Claire, Finch was (pointedly) introduced to Karen, who was a speech therapist, and through Karen came Jemima, an immigration lawyer. Soon the women, who had not been especially close before the arrival of Finch, found a certain camaraderie in the fact they all knew this odd woman and cared for her. Finch needs a Christmas dress! Finch is menopausal! In return, Finch became the ideal friend, remembering all significant details (husbands’ jobs, children’s names, birthdays, injustices of hated colleagues), and thus by the quality of her attention lending a distinction to three rather plain, contented lives. Finch rented their world and lived there happily. She loved walking into her friends’ houses, to be suddenly immersed in the great, laughing, compressed engine of their families (so mysterious to Finch!); the tinny, circular piano minuets being practiced in the lounge, the fat cat at her feet, the ricochet of a tennis ball through a hallway.
Finch herself was fifty-two, stout, orange-haired, and stacked front and back like the Hottentot Venus; she wore a big red face that looked always as if she’d been fishing in a storm. She was the (very occasional) substitute maths teacher at a small, cozy private girls’ school (Claire and Jemima, both parent governors, wangled it), and although there was nothing wrong with Finch’s maths, the girls were warned beforehand about her accelerated and repetitive speech pattern (not a stutter—she’d overcome the stutter, with Karen’s help) and Finch’s eyes and the way they rolled. They called her Chaffinch, Finchy, the Finchster—she didn’t mind. The important thing was to be familiar enough not to frighten, and if the girls thought her curious, they were instructed by their mothers never to show it.
Recently things had grown hard for the women in Finch’s life. Their houses turned complex. Their marriages had reached private boiling points and now the husbands began to evaporate. Naturally, Finch wanted to be able to help her friends as she had been helped. Only, she had no experience in this area. She’d never been married and knew no more about what goes on inside a marriage than inside the reactor of a nuclear plant. She had simply assumed that her friends were happy, and that they would stay that way. Continuity was a religious thing for Finch. And so these latest messages on the answer machine (“Finch, bloody bad news I’m afraid . . . ,” “Oh, Finch, it’s all gone tits up . . . ”) made her frantic. Men who had been considered kind were now revealed as unkind; love was not love but some lethal quality that came first with flowers and then tried to leave with the furniture. One marriage after another! They seemed related somehow in their failure, like fallen trees. But any deeper than this Finch could not penetrate, not being the sort of person love (or the failure of love) touched, just as she was not the sort of person who would ever go to 4368696e61 or dance a Latin dance with a Latin man.
Finch felt she was no longer welcome. She pitched across Hampstead Heath each morning, massive and nervous, her head tucked toward the strap of her teacher’s satchel, her furled umbrella held high and horizontal, fretfully pressed against her chest like the safety bar on a roller coaster. Two silent months flipped by. She didn’t phone, they didn’t phone. Was it a standoff? No one, including Finch, could see how she fit into this new, frozen, furious order of things. What could one tell Finchabout a divorce? How could the whole long, sordid story be explained?
Then, on a November Tuesday, Claire came around unexpectedly. Although she never quite came in. Simply stood on the doorstep, vibrating with anger, elaborately bedraggled, holding a big white box. Claire was an ash blonde with brown eyes, a thin woman grown wide at the hips, but no thicker anywhere else, like a viola. Her husband was already on conditional reprieve from a previous sexual misdemeanor. This had relegated him to a spare room with no television, called to dinner by a polite knock on his door from the children. Now Claire had intercepted a fox-fur hat her husband intended for a younger lady. It was all over. As she told Finch this, Claire’s face began to fracture and Finch couldn’t understand, for a moment, what was about to happen. The skin on Claire’s neck and jaw grew so tight that in her anguish she looked twenty again. And now Finch could see that Claire was crying.
“I can’t bear to wear it, and she certainly isn’t going to get to wear it,” said Claire, and thrust the box at Finch’s bosom. “You have it, Finch—you bloody wear it all the time, just you stomp around in it for me, all right? Pretend you’re in Doctor bloody Zhivago.”
Finch was stupefied and began rubbing the hubs of her palms together, a nervous habit. Seeing her difficulty, Claire apologized, and handed Finch two pieces of post she had picked up from the hallway, placing them on top of the box like stones for a grave.
“Oh, Finch! Of course you don’t need to hear this stuff. It’s just all been such a mess. Such a bloody mess. And I realize that I have to find something to make it all doable again. Just to make the day-by-day bearable. It’s very hard, that’s all.”

Then she left. Finch shut the door slowly with her big Reuben toe. She put the post in her pocket, went to sit down on the sofa. After a while, she opened the box. The hat was very glamorous and didn’t quite fit, but with liberal tugging Finch quickly discovered it could be forced. She heaved herself up onto an armchair and stood perilously on its arms, like a water-skier, to look in the mirror above the fireplace. She rubbed her fingers in the pelt. It was not in Finch to suspect how thoroughly she was being employed in discreet revenge against the husband, Geoff (who had liked Vermeer and disliked chilblains; Finch had compulsively bought him pairs of insulated socks), but vaguely she sensed the dark joke in giving this long-haired hat with its sexual static to dumpy, orange Finch. Love must recede so far, she thought anxiously, that in the end it wants to take the meaning out of everything, even the clothes. She climbed down and went to sit in the kitchen on her stool. She unscrewed a waiting jar of olives. The hat sat on an adjacent stool like a pet, twitching in the draft. Finch opened a drawer and removed a wooden chopstick she had sharpened to a point with an automatic pencil sharpener from the staff room. She took a fat novel from a small tower of same that stood where the kitchen bar met the wall, and opened it where she had left off.
And then Finch’s mother phoned. Finch’s mother never phoned for conversation, only monologue. Today’s concerned her mother’s partner, a Mr. Eric Frost, whom Finch had never met, because Finch had no physical contact with her family. But Finch knew all about Mr. Frost—his story was given to her in biweekly installments. Holding the phone with one hand, Finch kept the olive jar steady with her elbows. She was ready to turn the next page with the chopstick if she had to.
“Am I too harsh?” asked Finch’s mother, and did not wait for an answer. “Should I have given him more time? But in the end it was like having a second child, that’s the only way I can describe it. He became a responsibility.”
“Hmm,” said Finch, who was now separating the quicksilver anchovies from the olives they came in. She gagged on fish—something to do with the idea of scales—and yet always bought the olives with the anchovies in them.
“What was I meant to do—look after him? I’ve already done that with you and with your father, and I’m too old, Finch, for that sort of compromise.”
“No,” said Finch cautiously, and began opening her post with a butter knife. It upset her because it wasn’t just love that was being deleted in her mother’s monologues, it was the man himself. Though it was true that Mr. Frost was a bore, was a bully, Finch believed in the sovereignty of other people.
“And so here we are,” sniffed Finch’s mother, while Finch lay down the phone bill and opened the second, rougher brown envelope. “Oh, darling, you can’t understand a word of this, can you? But you’re the only one I can talk to. At least you listen. . . . We’ve not had much luck, have we? The women of this family—we have this awful, evil luck. Hello?”
So surprised was Finch by her second letter, she dropped the phone.
“Hello? Hello?”
“I have jury service,” said Finch, picking up the receiver, speaking in only a whisper. “Jury service! I’ve just received a letter. I’ve just opened it, opened it just now, opened it. I’m getting oil all over—”
“It’s so different for men,” continued Finch’s mother passionately, as Finch placed the phone down upon its side and wiped her oily hands on her thighs. “Time doesn’t work in the same way for men. It’s not hunting them down.”
Finch was not eligible for jury duty. Not eligible. Not at all! This fact sat with the few things Finch knew for certain about herself: that she must not drink coffee or alcohol or go near the sea or drive a car. Finch could not work out whether her mother was ignoring her or didn’t believe her or both; but she had no doubt about the miraculous letter. Though it turned see-through from the oil, the letter was real. Finch held it up to her face. The Heath pressed close against Finch’s house, and at the window was a tree whose leaves had turned so exactly gold they seemed to Finch as collectible as a horse chestnut’s silken conker—as noble, as elevated in their relation to bark, or mud. As her mother’s fricatives fizzed through the receiver, a slice of the sun filtered through these leaves and found Finch out, rereading once more, astonished.
FINCH THE PROSPECTIVE JUROR
Claire had brought about the détente: lunch followed. Finch wore a very unfortunate red jumper paired with a yet more unfortunate pair of orange dungarees, which made her friends wonder if they would ever be successful with Finch. And, more aggravating, she seemed to them all to be inexplicably jolly today, smiling, eagerly tucking into her food, humming. What made Finch so bloody cheery? Outside, the rain fell at a vicious angle, the Government was not what anyone had hoped, and the liquid infidelities of husbands were hardening into relationships, taking shape. Why, then, this humming? Her friends could not know that Finch was going to be a juror! Finch herself considered it such a piece of good fortune she did not know how to offer it into the present conversation, here where each woman’s miseries were being laid out across the table like delicacies, to be sampled.
“I feel,” Karen was saying, reaching over Finch to stab a sausage, “like my life is imploding. Never in my life have I been a violent person—I wouldn’t even recognize that impulse in myself—but now, when I get these lawyers’ letters, I just feel extraordinarily ill-used, and there’s a real degree of hatred that becomes toxic inside you.”
“Hmm,” Jemima was saying. “Well, that’s right. That’s absolutely . . . ”
The waiter was hovering. “Shall I take?”
Claire had a competing claim: “Now, I don’t see that at all. I’m actually filled with pity for him, because he’s the one who’s missing the support network.”
And Finch was stroking her hat, about to explode with her untold news.
“But, Claire, you don’t really think he ever had any intention at all of,” began Karen, and then noticed the unusual Finchian silence and made a motion to Claire to try and include her.
“Wait—Finch—” said Claire. “Finch, put on the hat for a second, just to show. You haven’t worn it out yet.”
“The hat? Oh, Finch, put it on now, go on,” said Jemima, turning to her. “That hat was made for you. Go on, Finch.”
“I prefer to carry it than wear it, wearing it,” said Finch, smiling warily, but she liked to be cajoled. She forced the thing downward, and just as it settled over her ears her jolliness bubbled over, and she made a most unusual face, a lopsided pout. For a moment, Finch had seen herself other than she was, but here came the corrective: a great, clanging laughter burst from her friends.

“I wish I had a camera,” said Claire, thumping the tablecloth. “I’d send a photo of you to Geoff. I bloody would. I’d give him the photo as settlement. I’d say, ‘I’ll keep the house, you have the Finch photo.’”
Finch remembered Geoff. He once called Finch aside in the kitchen and showed her how to put a skewer in a chicken and watch for the running, pink juice.
“I have to go soon,” said Finch. “I really have to go. I’ve got jury service tomorrow, jury service!” Tomorrow Finch was going to be a juror!
The women groaned and sympathized and Karen told her that her rule of thumb in court was not to trust anyone with his eyes too close together. The topic passed lightly on, puddings were ordered. Suddenly Finch rose.
“Must get going, now really, now, just to be safe, really. Jury service tomorrow. Thank you for the hat, very warm, very, very warm, really.”
“Finch, where are you going? It’s pitch black outside. Let’s call you a cab or something, or one of us’ll walk—”
“Oh, Finch, wait. Finch, don’t be ridiculous—”
“It’s pissing it down—”
But Finch wanted to establish the most convenient walking route from her home to the court, in the city. She left the restaurant and chose a route through West Heath, off the main lamplit paths. There had been a storm the night before and it depressed Finch to see the trees shrink back from her, exhausted. One beech had cracked and lay inconsolable on the ground. Finch tearfully approached it, stepping through the slutch, and walked the trunk, elevated slightly above the ground. The fissure came halfway along, and, bending to inspect it, Finch felt happier seeing the rot and ringworm inside, knowing it had been rotten already. She continued over the ragged hill and down its pruned east side until she hit pavement again, where she caught a bus to the court. Here she stood humbly before its archway and thought hard about the law. Finch’s brain at once opened out onto a palatial Victorian house made of white marble where, for Finch, Truth lived. Here, in the house of Truth, everything could be seen! Finch bit into her lip and hugged herself and set off the security light by stepping through a laser.
She caught the bus back. She sat on the back seats of the top deck feeling completely mad, in a kind of anticipatory fit. She caught herself rubbing her left shoe compulsively against the skin of her right ankle, something her friends had advised her not to do in public, and she barely noticed the young black man who had lost something, who was stalking the empty upper deck in a temper. He held a slender flashlight connected to a key ring, and thrice he got down on his knees to inspect the floor beneath her seat with this tiny light and each time he seemed more exasperated by the monolith of Finch, her hat in her lap, implacably turned to the back window, squinting at a set of vanishing gold scales. Tomorrow Finch would attend somebody else’s trial. Whose? What had they done? Why?
AND NOTHING BUT THE
Of course, at a certain point in her life, Finch had lived through a bad day. One might guess that much, simply by meeting her. But would it be clear how bad? Finch was eleven at the time. She was wearing green pantaloons with a fleur-de-lis pattern, a white shirt with puffy shoulders, red leather sandals, and pink socks with feminine frills at the ankle. She carried a small clasp purse made of milky, iridescent beads, a few of which were found later, sitting guilty in the sand. Her hair was shoulder length and drawn into a French plait; a bobble held the flyaway ends. She was four feet nine (only seven inches smaller than her adult height) and of average weight. Her name, her real name, was Rosalind Jane Gordon. She was on holiday, staying with her parents in a bed-and-breakfast in Padstow, Cornwall, and, as the air turned salt and people hunted the wet beach below, Finch began to understand the enormity of the thing she had done, and hid in the shed.
The children were called Beth and Andrew Cotton, eight years old and six. Finch met them that same afternoon; they had wandered down to where she was rock-pooling and watched as she dug at whelks with a penknife, cut them from their shells, and handed them on to her fishing father, who pierced them with a hook. The boy stood behind his sister as Finch fearlessly picked up a crab and let it scuttle around in the basin of her cupped hands. Finch showed them the circular coils that worms leave in the sand as they work their way down, and how to stand with just your feet in the water while the surf and the beach seem to draw thunderously away from you. But then the children had grown bored. Finch felt an odd, adult pressure to entertain them. On a sudden inspiration, she took Beth and Andrew for a walk over the dunes, up mighty Trevose Head, scrambling and laughing. When Andrew felt a stinging cut between his toes, Finch stopped and picked the sand out and wiped it clean with a leaf. But she was bossy, the eleven-year-old Finch, as well as maternal; when she was finished, she made him walk on though he complained and asked to stop. They went high up onto the very tip of the crag. There the three of them sat while Finch prepared a fictional picnic amid the long, itchy grass. Imaginary plates, imaginary knives and forks, dishes her mother cooked, cakes she’d made.
Finch had known the children now for an hour and a half. Beth was pretty in the ideal, English, gold-and-rose way (much was made of this later), and Andrew was paler, white blond, no eyebrows. Very bright, very popular, both of them—but Finch could not know this. How did they upset Finch, these two? What was the offense? Refusing to acknowledge that it was an invisible loaf sitting in the empty hands she held out, maybe—that was as close as Finch ever came to remembering why she had turned her little hands, and pushed. Later, it became important to say it very clearly, without poetry and in the first person: With my hands I pushed them off the edge, I killed them. And this, in other, therapeutic, adult hands, became: The two younger children refused to collude with the imaginary creation of the elder child and so she, already pathologically dissociated from the idea of the sovereignty of other people (due to sustained violence at the hands of the father), unleashed her ability to make the imaginary happen. No matter how the story was told, it remained a remarkable, singularly awful thing to have happened. There is a kindness that says it could have happened to anyone. Then there is the one-way, merciless velocity that actions have in the world, which means that it happened only to Finch. She did the pushing. And over the children went.

Hello, Finch, and goodbye. Finch’s biographer has to begin here, in this pale place, where Finch’s life, her independent existence, seemed to finish. A low-security children’s-care facility called Farrington, in Southampton, on the coast. She spent ten years there. Because her photograph had been widely published, and the story a sensation, Finch was treated brutally by people who made it their sport to try to destroy her. She was raped by a junior care worker and said nothing about it, her right arm was broken twice in six years—in short, everything unfolded in the institutional style of the time, including the therapy. Finch was made to enlarge and solidify that day in Padstow until it was a monumental disk that blacked out the sun. She developed a stutter that left her mouth open so long that sometimes people thought she was choking. Hello, poor Finch, and goodbye.

Finch did her best to complete her education in piecemeal fashion. She discovered the nimble shape of her maths brain. She read the way people read who have no liberty—without humor or delicacy—and tolerated nothing but novels. She marked little crosses in the margins of her books at what seemed, to the therapists, random points. In fact, each cross marked a step on the path to the resolution (although these steps were very particular to Finch’s view of the world: in a simple action like closing a door, she saw ethical change—condemning Gregor Samsa for making his mother spill the coffee, dismissing Jane Eyre for cowering in a nook behind a curtain). And as her adolescence finished its work her body met her mind; she grew ever more heavyset and charmless, arms spattered with orange moles, an unfinished face, boneless and round, dominated by hulking spectacles. She was waiting for something to happen. Nothing happened. There was never any trial for Finch, and no prison, and the curiosity of her case, from the therapeutic point of view, was how much her late teens came to be filled with a longing for a jury and for punishment. She fell in love with the idea of a judge the way other girls envision their princes. Finch wanted to feel the law. So when her own resolution came she rejected it. Finch turned twenty-one and was free to go. The popular dream of a new name and life was put at her disposal in the tidy form of paperwork. Instead, she voluntarily readmitted herself into an adult-care facility, Hollingsworth, in Holloway, North [REDACTED]. She didn’t want it to end unless it ended properly. Finch still wanted to feel the law come over her, like a storm.
Hollingsworth looked like an old-fashioned train station. The gardens were formal and small and made Finch very miserable. The trimmed hedges and coy circles of flowers. She spent time in the gardens only on the exceptional occasions that her mother visited, the two of them walking a constrictive figure eight while Finch’s mother worried a set of rosary beads, discreetly weeping, and Finch marvelled at her mother’s two curious pairs of eyebrows as they got going, the real pair crumpling beneath the fake, which sat a whole inch higher, drawn in pencil. For her part, Finch’s mother believed the correct ending was Catholicism. Her daughter need only return to the Church and prostrate herself before the Lord. But Finch disliked the little she understood of Christ on his mount, in your soul, with his body, and his blood, in your body. She didn’t want anybody in there.
In her third year in Hollingsworth, the man who had raped Finch was prosecuted for the rape of someone else. Finch followed the trial in the paper and wept at his dissonant grin, a family photograph on page 3. But she was glad at the lengthy sentence, felt again the mightiness of the law. Soon after, she finished a [REDACTED] degree in pure and applied maths. This period also heralded the great Golden Age of Finch’s weight gain, when every day her fellow-residents could see significant development, like commuters passing a building site. Finch stopped being able to look people in their eyes. She became increasingly stationary, and spent an Easter in a lazy chair, reading “Clarissa.” It took almost two weeks to read its 1,892 pages, and when she was finished Finch stared at the last page several minutes, flicked it back, flicked it forward, and wondered what account she could possibly give of herself to her social worker that afternoon.
She lived on in this stasis, twenty years of it. No longer Rosalind Gordon, not yet Finch, nothing, really, except an ongoing therapeutic project for those so inclined, an anecdotal footnote in a young man’s Ph.D. Then, when she was forty-three, the facility in Holloway was told it had to close. There were no funds to fix the crumbling red brickwork, the damp. Finch was brought into the director’s office, and her options were outlined as she gazed over his shoulder to the gardens, where a man was forcing a cage over a hedge so that it might be trimmed into the shape of a sheep. Not caring to go to [REDACTED] or Devon to institutions that were unsuitable—high-security mental-health facilities, both of them—Finch decided to leave.
Finch’s mother was sufficiently well off and there was a mazy family flat going begging in Kew. Wary of the family name on the lease, Finch’s mother sold this and bought for Finch the small place in Hampstead, so close to the Heath itself that the trees practically stretched their branches through the living room. Ruth Finch moved in. Tried to get used to bedrooms without emergency cords and kitchen drawers with knives in them. Wore red a lot (she thought it made people happy). Bought a complete set of Proust. Met Claire and Karen and Jemima. Certainly they wondered how Finch had got to be the way she was, but there was something about Finch that precluded the usual questions of country and blood. And all three women quickly learned not to try to talk to Finch about the personal. Finch might know the height and weight of your husband, his favorite wines, but she shrank back from any truly personal discussion, sexual or otherwise. Finch had no emotional vocabulary. “I have always thought the actions of men the best interpreters for their thoughts,” John Locke had said, and Finch kept this and a rattlebag of other personally chosen daily motivational quotes pinned up around the house, as her therapists had recommended. She believed in the sovereignty of other people! She didn’t want to be cut open and examined. She didn’t want to do it to anybody else, either.
Every two years or so, Finch silently endured the circling English tabloids, which, when they grew bored in the late summer, wondered where she was. In what people were now calling the “public imagination,” Finch was one of a very exclusive and notorious band of Englishwomen whose curling passport photos inspired extraordinary repulsion, vengeance. People wanted her to burn in Hell. People thought hanging was too good for her. Fortunately for Finch, she exited the world as a child and subsequently left no traces. No credit cards, no numbers, no addresses. Orange hair was the only continuity between tiny, thin-eyed Rosalind with her crooked nose, and bifocalled enormous Finch with her improbable, bashful grin. To terrorize herself, she sometimes gave over a moment to considering how fast the story might travel if it were released, so fast!
SOMEBODY ELSE’S BAD DAY
Clearly, it was an administrative oversight, but Finch took it as fate. She was a juror. With all that this entailed: a blue suit, a notebook, a cheese-and-onion sandwich. Finch was here, as a representative of her society, to sit in judgment upon the aberration of one of its members, a young woman from the Balkans called Danitsa. Danitsa had had a bad day. Danitsa stabbed Paul in the stomach with a four-inch kitchen blade! Twice! Although he looked fine now, which was confusing for Finch. The salient points were these: Danitsa had very tightly curled hair that shimmered with deliberate grease; she wore her blusher in the Eastern European style, a slice of pink along the cheekbone. She had tried to kill this man Paul, who looked like a bloodhound on its hind legs. Danitsa claimed not to be a prostitute, but everybody else said she was. Either way, this did not concern Finch. Danitsa said she was a waitress with a heroin problem who feared for her life when Paul broke down her door looking for his money. Finch couldn’t understand the relevance of this. Nobody denied that Danitsa had taken a knife to Paul’s hairy dog-belly, not even Danitsa. But there was contention about other things: how thoroughly she had been beaten that day, how often raped in the past, how thoroughly brought to the brink, how rightful in her final, stabbing motion. Not guilty, self-defense. The argument was offered and countered over a period of five days. Very little of it interested Finch. She concentrated on the initial, stark description of the stabbing. The depth, the damage, the missed organ, the intention. Once she’d heard all of that in the first hours of the first day, she was satisfied. Finch rested back in her second-row chair and unobtrusively began to read “Jude the Obscure,” holding the book with the roll of her belly and laying a coat over her lap. She studied the jurors. The black lady in the pleated skirt, the elderly white lady who wore glasses only to read, the young man with no hair at all, the man with one slug eyebrow inching across his forehead, the pretty young lady whose head was completely shaved and shone, the fellow whose teeth—

“Finch? Are you O.K.? Was it upsetting?” asked Karen, after the first night, as she helped heave Finch up into her huge car. The women had agreed that it was too dark at night to cross the Heath; they would take turns ferrying Finch back from the court. Finch was in a state of extreme something, agitated, shaking, and Karen switched off the engine and turned to her.
“These things,” said Karen, kindly, “can be quite a trial—excuse the pun—Finch, do you want to talk about it, without actually of course talking about it? We could get tea.”
“The law is so beautiful,” said Finch seriously. “Really beautiful, it’s really the only beautiful thing there is,” and this became one of Finch’s famous gnomic utterances, added to the many that Karen and Jemima and Claire would quote whenever evidence of Finch’s uniqueness was required. “It’s as if,” Finch said, “when I’m there, in there, everything orders itself, completely itself, by itself.”
But the second day was a bore. In the car afterward, Finch was subdued, her enthusiasm gone. With the same nonchalance she brought to the quick solving of a maths puzzle, Finch told Jemima that she had already made her decision.
“Finch, darling, it really isn’t fair to,” Jemima said. “I mean, you must hear both sides of the thing. And you can’t read while it’s going on. You’ll get thrown out. It’s important to pay attention to all the details. These things are very complex. . . .”
Jemima faded. Finch was silent, resolutely twiddling with the radio dial. Jemima was oppressed by a feeling she’d never had before with Finch; as if Finch did not, in truth, like her very much. It was a cold thrum, a hint of something bottomless and angry.
The third day, Paul took the stand and Finch woke a little from her reverie. She was immensely moved by Paul and his testimony. He should have been dead, but wasn’t. This seemed very significant to Finch. She softened slightly to Danitsa that day, and felt all might be made right if she would just run to Paul in that tall box and tell him (and Finch, and her jury) how very sorry she was. This didn’t happen. Nothing happened. Finch could feel the colossal impatience in her jury; she knew how much they all wanted to stand with Finch and give the judgment.
On the penultimate day, Finch climbed into Claire’s car and, like a mournful dog, stuck her head out of the open window and kept it there, looking backward, cold air streaming in. Claire had a theory that Finch was in love. A juror, maybe? When finally Finch turned in her seat, Claire saw that the skin around her fingernails had been bitten down horribly, sore, bleeding.
“Finch, you are fine, aren’t you?” she asked, but received no answer, only a rather heartbreaking grunt. “We thought we all might have dinner on Saturday, celebrate the end of your duty.”
Finch threw her head back and whimpered.
“Who are you trying to impress in that hat, Finch? You look super.”
Finch abruptly perked up, frowned.
“Couldn’t wear it in court, Claire! Couldn’t at all!”
“Why?” asked Claire, tickled by Finch’s outrage. “Concealed weapons, or . . . ?”
“Distracting to the jury,” said Finch, firmly. “We all have to concentrate, be of the same mind, the exact same. A hat like this could potentially ruin the equilibrium, ruin the equilibrium completely. They have to understand me.”
“I see,” said Claire with equal firmness, and smiled, and later phoned Karen to tell her the story of how the endlessly amusing hat that Geoff had wanted to give the bitch had now extended itself, almost endangering Finch’s silly trial.
EPISTOLARY FINCH
Finch was sad to see the trial end; it had been a place for her to be in authority. No one in that courtroom knew, as Finch did, how an act like Danitsa’s demands an answer. Demands it! Finch was devastated, that final day, to have to leave this place where she might do so much good, today, tomorrow. Why not let Finch on all juries, make her the eternal juror? The judge, seeing things differently, sent them all out together to deliberate. It was a long walk. But when Finch and her fellow-jurors entered the allotted room she understood that the greatest of all moments was now upon her. The judgment. She imagined a trial as a cruel story one must satisfy with a cruel ending; twelve people of one mind rising and ending the thing. She never for a moment thought they would see Danitsa any differently than she did, Finch, who saw only the one, indisputable, eloquent fact. Once they were settled around the table, Finch stood up. She was the first to speak, and at length, and with many excitable repetitions, as was her way. Guilty! And thumped the table. When she opened her eyes, her heart broke. Eleven wary faces. So familiar. The nervous, amused glances. The agreement to isolate Finch, who might be mad, or might be harmless, but must certainly not be allowed her three dimensions, her time, her space. Finch sat down. The man with the slug eyebrow unpeeled the top of his coffee and let the steam rise to occupy the silence. He said, “I suppose I feel there’s a bit more complexity here,” and there was grateful murmuring and then agile discussion, and Finch saw clearly, enviously, how this man who did not look odd, or sound odd, could position himself with ease as the leader, while Finch was reduced to a slump on the table, examining the polished fake grain of the fake wood. All she could do was not move from her position. This had always been Finch’s power, not to move. Her rebel jury talked, disgusted her with their arguments for self-defense, and Finch resisted them all, and would not even be bowed when it became personal, when the black lady, exasperated, said that Finch was obviously mad.
“Surely we don’t have to deal with this?” said the black lady, canvassing the room with her eyes. Another woman, in jeans, self-consciously more working class than the rest and feeling bullied by the slug-man, tepidly defended Finch.
“If you stab someone with a knife, then you’ve stabbed someone with a knife and there’s gonner be consequences, in’t there?”
But Finch made it happen. She forced the deliberations on so late that the jury had to repair to a grotesque travel tavern, all heaving resentment in the minivan, as Finch sat apart, at the back, chewing at her fingers. They were roomed along a dark-green hallway. In the slam of each door, Finch felt violence directed toward her. She woke up in the early hours needing the toilet, but in the unfamiliar room she saw herself as she was, naked from the waist down, weeping, her top half wobbling in a thermal vest like a Christmas pudding in its muslin, with her dog’s paw going and going at a blank space where she imagined a doorknob should be. Other people were not what one expected, one couldn’t know them, never know them! Finch fumbled her way back to the bed, tried to sleep again. An hour later, she rose in the thin orange light, and snatched her glasses purposefully from the nightstand. She sat at the desk and took out the hotel writing paper and the pen. She wrote a long letter to the jury (she addressed it, To the Jury), in which she stated the grounds for her authority and made a full account of herself, her personal experience. Her claim that would wipe out all other claims. When she’d finished, she opened the sliding cupboard and removed the white towelling dressing gown. This only just allowed Finch to cover up the vitals, splitting wildly at the leg, turning Finch into a blowsy showgirl. And what a performance. She took her letter and padded down the hall, stood shaking outside slug-man’s door, paused, turned back, and then returned in a rush, running back up the corridor. She recalled some advice of Jemima’s that had helped all the ladies through the violence of divorce. If you have something to say, say it in a letter. No one interrupts you in a letter. Have the last word. It’s your story, so you tell it.
FINCH IS JUSTICE
Finch’s jury meets again in the afternoon. She can see they have all breakfasted together, without her. Everybody sits round the table in odd postures of pity and disgust, legs folded and bent in a double helix. Finch stands alone by the coffee machine, pressing down on the dispenser for something hot while every human feeling for her seeps from the room. The jury’s idea is that Danitsa, at least, was a victim. Finch never was. She was never elevated to one, never got that far, never will. Finch knows she is being looked at, and read. Read backward. Were there signs? Could one have seen? Didn’t she always seem rather?

Now: how fast will this story go? In the courtroom that same day, as the jury stands, Finch is photographed. So fast! Outside the court, no one is there to pick her up. So fast! She pushes onto a bus, and this same, lone photographer appears in front of her. She knows there’ll be more at the house. She walks the Heath very slowly, as Keats must have, thinking of trees. Their long lives, beyond reproach. Finch spots her favorite kind of conker and pockets it, tracing her fingers over the rounded contours that are shocked out of their complacency by one straight edge. Oh, to understand poetry! To Finch, this is the height of sophistication! To understand that the moment—crystalline, encased in amber words, perfect—is enough. To be all done with stories!
Lucky that Finch carries her bulk out front like a rugby man; when the time comes, she barges through the people-forest and very nearly makes it to her front door without raising her head to a flashbulb—only, someone calls her old name. She turns. An old woman, dressed smartly like a politician, says something quiet and obscene.
FINCH’S ALCHEMY
But Finch’s bottom, emergent from shower, is a harvest moon; a great and uneven white surface through which rises insistent pink. Her dungarees hang limp over a chair in the other room. Her gloves are on the sofa in the front room. Her Wellingtons stand backwardly right-left in the hallway under a Hogarth reproduction in which people as fat as Finch tumble about. A comb rests against the clouded mirror, and with this Finch’s heavy red helmet of hair will be created tomorrow and the day that comes after tomorrow. Because Finch makes it happen. She made it happen. She wonders, Who will help Finch move this final time? Where will she go? What will happen next? Messages from her three friends interlace recklessly on the machine in the other room, and Finch can hear them, like mermaids, singing to each other. They are all faultlessly sympathetic and upset, attentive in an unfamiliar, remarkable way that makes Finch feel she is taking on the dimensions of a character. And, yes, she remembers that Karen has a people-carrier, a monster car (which was no indulgence—she bought it for Sophie, Jono, Polly, and Adam, and the dog, and there used to be Simon, of course—so she needed it), and she understands that the car and its driver are at Finch’s disposal should she need to get away for a few days. Or for a lifetime. There are people at the window now. This is extraordinary. Finch stands before the mirror with one arm up, naked, new, exuberantly doused in talcum powder. 

