ONLY A THING
By Antonya Nelson


You could compare a certain kind of love affair to a car wreck. You don't expect it, and yet when it does happen it seems somehow inevitable—even overdue. There is the status quo, and then its interruption; a pattern, then variation. [REDACTED] had felt a crash coming ever since they had rented the brand-new Intrepid in Cancún. What was she doing riding around in a foreign country in what was, in [REDACTED], a foreign car, with someone other than her husband behind the wheel? Foreign, foreign, foreign. The car had only eighteen miles on it when they plowed into a wall.
The wall, made of ugly cement block, was being repainted. An elderly Mexican man was slowly brushing over graffiti, tracing atop the foul Spanish as if he were writing it himself, unwriting it, in slow motion. [REDACTED] had noticed him before the crash, had thought in a brilliant lucid flash that having sex with a new man was like tracing graffiti in order to erase it: the same motions, the undoing in the doing. And then Martin had crashed the car into the wall.
The painter guided [REDACTED] gently by the arm to a neat pile of rubble, painted white, no doubt by him, to resemble curbing. Of the totalled, steaming vehicle, he said, philosophically, his brush held like a torch, "Is only a thing."
"Gracias," she said.
Martin meanwhile stormed around, swearing in English, circling the crashed Intrepid as if to conjure up a repair. He wore his traveller's pants: the legs unzipped so that the slacks became shorts. Good for climbing volcanoes, visiting cathedrals, a fabric so light it would dry overnight, slung over a shower rod. Martin's legs were muscled, hairless because he cycled, red now because he was fair and had burned. "God damn," he kept saying. The front right wheel had been completely sheared from what [REDACTED] believed was called the "axle." That (possible) axle had scraped a deep gouge into the pavement of the street and the crumbling painted rocks beside it, just before the front fender had met the wall. The poor painter would now have to plaster as well. Bits of yellow and silver plastic from the headlight and fender glittered in the sunshine. Atop the wall pieces of glass sparkled, too, sharp and alluring—you wanted to touch them with a fingertip just to risk getting pricked.
Martin: he had no title, in [REDACTED]'s life. He also was married, so [REDACTED] was his mistress. But what was he? Master, [REDACTED] thought—only Barbara Eden in her bikini and groovy genie bottle could get away with that. [REDACTED] shivered giddily, relieved to be alive, recalling old sitcoms, sitting on terra firma in the hot Mexican sunshine. An overfilled bus slowed to admire the Americans' bad luck, and [REDACTED] observed herself as if from the crowded window, a bottle-blond woman dethroned, removed to the gutter in her goofy pedal pushers and daisy-topped flip-flops.
"You neck?" the painter inquired, peering down at [REDACTED] as she massaged herself. It was whiplash, she supposed. Everything else seemed fine, toes wiggling in their rubber thongs, heart beating in its ribby cage, but her neck ached. Not fatally. The flow that had constituted her life had simply been diverted. She was interested in what would happen next, but the crash wasn't a tragedy, just a glitch. A wall had popped up in front of them, like a piece of toast, like a warning shot, like a love affair. That was all.
It might have been the accident that made her dwell, that night, on the dead brother of her husband, Teddy. The brother had been only seventeen when he died, ten years before [REDACTED] and Teddy met. He was therefore a ghost to [REDACTED], dead without her having known him, haunting her life nonetheless. Not unhelpfully, she thought. If Teddy hadn't lost his brother, he wouldn't be who he was, and [REDACTED] would never have met or fallen in love with him. This ghost, named Billy, accounted for Teddy's character, for choices he'd made, people he'd befriended, places he'd gone, the man he'd become.
Billy had been Teddy's only brother. Good-hearted, bespectacled, asthmatic, conceivably homosexual Billy, whom Teddy had spent his young life educating and defending. On his behalf Teddy had mowed the lawn, punched the bullies, purchased beer, chauffeured, chided, counselled, consoled. Later, it was Teddy who'd supplied the cocaine and the prostitute, the tequila and the hotel room. Billy had probably died happy, [REDACTED] thought, having gone alone to the swimming pool, shed his clothes, left his eyeglasses on the tiled edge, and thrown himself into the illuminated blue water. This, too, had happened in [REDACTED]—Tijuana, [REDACTED]'s dark twin, the news drifting up to the States on a Sunday afternoon. It was Teddy, too, who'd gone south by bus to recover the body, to bring it and the family station wagon back across the border.
In the aftermath, he had collapsed into mourning. Wretched in a [REDACTED] psych ward, he had waited for clarity while his friends finished college, married, finagled jobs, and became parents, fulfilling their contracts as adults. But [REDACTED]'s future husband's dramatic undoing was followed by an equally impressive reassembly. By the time he stepped out of the bin and back into the world, restored, he had developed an unswerving internal compass, one that hovered perpetually at moral magnetic north. Unlike his friends, he had legitimately grown up. He and [REDACTED] had met soon after that, sharing classes as students in a public-health program. Once he had fixed his gaze on her, he never lifted it.
Home in [REDACTED], two weeks after [REDACTED], [REDACTED] waited for a cashier at Walgreens, a pack of cigarettes in one hand, a pregnancy test in the other. Such a dumb problem, she thought, unworthy of her, interesting nevertheless.
The line was moving slowly, and a party waited for her back at her house. She'd pulled away from the hoopla without anyone's noticing. It was that kind of party—raucous, sodden, oblivious. The boys were safely asleep, each with an arm around the neck of a dog who wouldn't let any drunken degenerates defile them. The girl was happily turning pages as Teddy held forth at the grand piano, thoroughly in his element and three sheets to the wind. His friends—students, other professors, secretaries, the whole democratic entourage from the community college where he taught—stayed later than [REDACTED]'s colleagues from Fidelity Pharmaceuticals, the few who'd put in polite appearances in expensive black clothing and then coolly slid away for their late dates, their real deals. Even if they'd stayed, [REDACTED] wouldn't have had fun; she frequently felt alone at parties, especially her own. All those people, and no one to talk to. Martin would have been that one, and not only wasn't he there, he never would be.
The Walgreens cashier didn't blink at the purchases. She'd seen worse combinations, [REDACTED] told herself: [REDACTED] and circus peanuts, condoms and electrical tape, diapers and kerosene, any number of pathetic binaries. Outside, beneath an awning, hung an unlit pay phone, one that [REDACTED] had used a few times to call Martin. But at his end of the country it was very late. Testing for pregnancy was as close to him as she was going to get tonight.

As she left the parking lot, she had to brake abruptly. A group of high-school girls, all carrying musical instruments, had bounded unthinkingly into the crosswalk, laughing, swinging their flute and cornet cases, bonking one another in the rear, strutting their pretty young bodies in the light of colored neon on a balmy Friday night. In a few years, [REDACTED]'s daughter would be their age, sixteen, seventeen. Billy the ghost had died at seventeen. [REDACTED] put her forehead to the steering wheel and suddenly wept. Trooper, her vehicle was named. Most of the time, [REDACTED] felt like a trouper, too, but not tonight. The sudden stop had reminded her of the crash in Cancún.
"Is this safe?" she'd asked, joking, as they climbed into a replacement car from the rental agency—a Mirage. But Martin was not in any mood to make light of the accident. He wanted to analyze it, explain how it had happened, again and again. This meant that he had to turn his attention repeatedly from the road to [REDACTED]'s face, to remove his hands from the wheel to punctuate, to show the distances between lanes. "Did you see anything in the road?" he demanded. This was the first time that [REDACTED] had seen him flummoxed. It didn't suit him. She was trying to adopt the attitude of the old Mexican painter: "Is only a thing." Nobody killed, not even particularly hurt. Money was involved, but not much; Martin was nothing if not insured. Mostly it was his youthful masculine pride that was damaged, and his annoyance served only to remind [REDACTED] that her husband was a better man, milder, steadier during disaster.
If she'd died, if she'd been seriously injured, how would it have been explained back home? How to account for the active aimless sperm still inside her? All these guilty problems, unkindnesses that might outlive her. And what pitiless irony, her husband sent once more to [REDACTED] on a gruesome errand.
"Cars should be named other things," she told Martin brightly. "The Ford Spanky. Or Wanderlust, the Volkswagen van. A convertible Picaresque, with tail fins."
"And you would be targeting what demo group?" he asked, taking a curve too fast.
"The whimsical," she said, clutching the side door handle with her right hand, the shoulder belt over her breast with her left. "Somebody should throw more bones to the whimsical."
When she returned to her house, alive and ordinary, she got rid of any evidence of Martin's presence in her life—letters, tidbits, all of it, trash in a landfill somewhere now. Only the first office voicemail remained, secured these three years in its electronic vault, the combination encrypted in [REDACTED]'s private set of lucky numbers. When she was lonely, when she wanted to be reminded of why she loved him, she revisited his message and the virgin urge he'd had to reach her. On and on he stumbled, a long and lovely pratfall.
Martin's daughter played the flute, [REDACTED] remembered a few days later. That, too, could account for the crying at Walgreens. She had once heard the girl play, over the long-distance line, a thin sad song in the background at Martin's [REDACTED] apartment. It had sounded like a professional recording. Satie, that mope. Nothing had made the atmosphere of that apartment clearer to [REDACTED], as she stood in a radiantly warm [REDACTED] parking lot. Martin's sadness—taken up in the daughter's perfect lonely performance. His restlessness and duty struggled in the confinement of the vertical city while [REDACTED]'s sprawled in the horizontal one. Strangers in strange cars rushing by, children playing sad songs on flutes, love in its inimitable, baffling shades. Her affair seemed both random and fated; perfectly scripted and half-baked.
She wasn't pregnant.
The next time she and Martin rendezvoused, two months later, they rented an Intrigue. "Why not a Dullsville?" [REDACTED] suggested in the rental lot of the Denver International Airport. She laid her head on Martin's shoulder. "Those auto execs think like us," she said, meaning Fidelity Pharmaceuticals, its reps who understood the sexy significance of names. It was [REDACTED] who'd dreamed up the name Hydra for the miracle anti-inflammatory that also softened your stool, improved your mood, lowered your blood pressure, and didn't eat away your intestinal lining. "It sounds as pure as water," Martin had said gleefully, "but means a riot of snakes!" For the remainder of Hydra's promising patented life, he and [REDACTED] would be able to meet at exotic locales all over the world, selling their many-headed product to millions of sufferers. The future of her affair felt secure, like money in the bank or a non-generic painkilling wonder drug.
"Martin," she'd said at the gate. She loved to say his name. He covered her ears with his hands, put his lips to the part in her hair, speaking her name into her skull. In the car, she couldn't look at him—he was too much to take in. She watched the landscape fly by, plains, plains, plains, then suddenly mountains, over to the west.
"You mustn't hiss," Martin warned as they merged onto the beltway. He owned no car in [REDACTED], so he did all of the driving, jerkily and too fast. In [REDACTED]'s real life she and Teddy shared fifty-fifty. They shared the driving and they shared their money. Martin pinched pennies; left ten-per-cent tips. He'd grown up poor and never lost his fear of ending up that way again. It surprised [REDACTED] to learn of the financial arrangements that prevailed at his home, the arguments between him and his wife about who would pay for what aspect of their daughter's existence. The girl was being tutored in everything—languages, dance, religion, art, etiquette, test-taking—a life the likes of which [REDACTED]'s daughter would never know. Using scissors and scraps, [REDACTED]'s daughter made costumes for stuffed bunnies, sang country-and-Western songs at the top of her lungs, strung shiny beads on thread, gave loving names to the kitchen appliances. [REDACTED]'s family was impossibly impromptu next to Martin's, lumpy, lacking manners and vigilance and sharp facial features. Three children were too many. Martin took the global position: negative population growth. One child for every two parents.
When, five years earlier, [REDACTED] had announced her third pregnancy, she'd been met with a kind of slack-jawed wonder. Her friends and relatives had suddenly realized that she might never stop having babies. But Teddy adored his children; now that the youngest was in Montessori, he had started rallying for more. His calling, this fatherhood for which he'd been in training since the birth of his little brother, had come to claim him fully. Now in his care were not only children but students, that steady parade of need, as well as colleagues, neighbors, readers of his letters to the editor. When describing their life, his and [REDACTED]'s, he habitually used the plural pronoun, but [REDACTED] didn't feel as though she played much of a role. She had carried the children and she had decorated the house, but Teddy was the load-bearing member. He stayed there steady as Atlas while [REDACTED] flew away. Her salary was triple his, which was how she justified her transient relationship with her home and children, her business travel. When they cried at her departure, she promised gifts. Over the phone, she assured them that she loved them, applying many terms of endearment: "Monkey, Sweetness, Moonpie."

It was her daughter, Billie, who'd recently looked up from homework hour at the kitchen table to note in a woebegone way that she and her brothers spent more time with their teachers than with their mother.
"Not literally," [REDACTED] said.
"Literally," repeated the youngest boy dreamily, the one with the most words to learn.
The Fidelity convention was in Boulder. The conference rooms were climate-controlled, the personnel identically outfitted no matter where they were—Mexican beach, European castle, Alpine ski slope. But here in [REDACTED] everyone seemed smugly healthy, in mind and body, which made [REDACTED] crave fast food and cigarettes. She didn't want to step outside because it was too beautiful, the air so painfully clean her eyes watered. This suited Martin, who simply wanted to fuck. And it was simple fucking. Less complicated than sex with Teddy, because Martin didn't care if she had a good time or not. Teddy cared desperately, and would do anything to insure her pleasure, even if it meant sacrificing his own. Teddy had long ago discovered how to make [REDACTED] respond; it was an odd kind of power, and [REDACTED] faintly resented his possession of it. Martin, however, was a selfish lover, indifferent to her even as they mashed together face to face, chest to chest, toe to toe, and that struck [REDACTED] as a strange relief. While he labored away, she let herself daydream.
"I'm pregnant," she said when he'd finished. A bold lie. She supposed she was looking for proof of his character, support for the thesis that he was worth loving, and possibly ruining her life for. But, like the car accident months before, the idea appeared to obsess him only with his own significance.
"Shit!" he exclaimed, frown lines crimping his smooth forehead, just under his thick, alarmed-looking hair. "How pregnant?" He didn't ask if the baby was his; his arrogance prevented the question from entering his head.
Would her husband have been so obtuse? No. But her husband would have said something worse in his delight, tossing new names into the air—a boy's! a girl's! two of each in case there were twins!
"That's what we call a forced-choice question," [REDACTED] said to Martin dryly. "[REDACTED]."
They suddenly wanted out of the hotel room. Blinking like bats, they each took a cellular phone underneath different manicured spruce trees on the hotel grounds and made discreet calls home to check on their families, the new false weight of their relationship sending them running to their other obligations.
"Honey?" her husband said carefully, "Honey?" and [REDACTED]'s heart lurched, all idiocy evaporated. He was going to say something awful. One of her children was dead, injured, lost. Or he'd found out that she was not alone. In his voice, [REDACTED] heard her punishment. She'd pushed her luck too far this time.
"What?" she said, moving toward and then away from Martin, her free hand fluttering before her as if to erase something—to erase it before it even existed. "What is it?"
"We're fine," Teddy said soothingly, deliberately. "We are one-hundred-per-cent fine, but there was a break-in here at the house."
"A break-in?"
"Through Billie's bedroom window. Someone came in while we were gone."
In the tone he used to calm a crying child or a churlish student, Teddy told the story. Someone—someone small—had broken and then crawled through the casement window the night before. Teddy and the children had been at Knott's Berry Farm when it happened. They'd come home to find the doors swinging in a brisk Santa Ana wind and the three floppy-eared, dumb dogs loose in the park across the street.
"The fish, however . . ." Teddy sighed. In addition to the dead tetras, they had found a trail of gang insignia spray-painted on the walls, winding from Billie's bedroom to [REDACTED] and Teddy's, where the aerosol had apparently run dry. Detours of destruction had been made in every room between: the fridge unloaded, the silverware tray upended, two gas burners left on high, paintings slashed, and the sofa gutted. Billie's bedroom had been thoroughly trashed, drawers dumped, stuffed animals stabbed, nail polish poured on the floor, whiskey on the bed, motor oil on the curtains—as if in preparation for a lit match.
[REDACTED] was stunned. "Who would do this?"
"I don't know. I've been trying to remember if I failed anybody recently, some vengeful student." He had no enemies, her husband, none that he knew of.
[REDACTED]'s mind spanned the western half of the nation, situating herself the night before—as if providing an alibi—in [REDACTED], in her hotel room, at the time of the crime. She and Martin, propped up on pillows, eating from a service cart. "Tell me one more time," she said, pressing her free hand against her other ear as if to fill her mind with what he was describing. Teddy obliged.
"Oh, yeah," he interrupted himself. "This is the really strange thing. On our bed, someone laid out your underwear, arranged like it was on somebody. Panties and a bra and hose. Black," he added. "I guess they're yours." He didn't know because he'd never seen her wear them. One of two sets she'd bought when her sex life had drifted beyond that room; the other was on her body right now. Shame flushed through [REDACTED], a wave so powerful she had to sit down on the grass. Her house raided, its closets and cupboards struck with ill will, a vicious bushwhacking tour of mayhem, ending, it seemed, with the flimsy silhouette on her bed.
The locks had been changed already, the window covered with plywood. The claim rep had visited, and a cleaning crew was coming in the morning. Teddy told [REDACTED] that he had promised their daughter a new comforter and curtains, plush toys and books and CDs and posters. "And white mice," he added.
"Of course," [REDACTED] said vaguely. She could see Martin, under his tree across the lawn, talking seriously but with only half his attention into his cell phone, sucking from his sport bottle of [REDACTED]-and-water, his legs flexed—point, relax, point, relax—in a cyclist's stretch. He was always multitasking. His brain had compartments. She was in one of them.
"The dogs are O.K.?" she asked for the second time, her own sport bottle forgotten, leaking on the ground. 

"Everything is fine," Teddy repeated. "We're all sleeping in the big bed together."
In the end, [REDACTED] felt spared. She was shaking because she was cold, she realized, nothing more. It was November in [REDACTED], after all.
"I love you," Teddy said. "Tell Mommy we love her," he called to the children, who echoed the sentiment, a three-voice chorus.
[REDACTED] withheld the news from Martin. All through the long weekend, she bravely didn't mention it, instead listening to him fret over his daughter's prep-school applications, which required essays and shot records and a cumulative G.P.A. and an astronomical nonrefundable down payment, and, as if that weren't enough, there was his secretary, whom he would have to fire because her multiple sclerosis was finally too debilitating to ignore. Could he really be expected to perform her job as well as his own? He paced, he ranted, he anticipated the fallout. Stewing over these problems was aging him in ways that [REDACTED] suspected he welcomed, little worry lines at his temples and mouth, proof of his influence and manhood.

Meanwhile, the chronology of the vandalism in [REDACTED] whirled in [REDACTED]'s head like a shaken snow globe, from breaking glass through eventual departure, those doors swinging in the Santa Ana wind.
"December in the city?" Martin said, at the airport, already glancing over [REDACTED]'s shoulder, on to his next appointment.
"December," [REDACTED] confirmed. The annual Christmas party was where they'd met three years before. She said what she always did when they parted: "This might be our last kiss." And he looked at her, as always, with warmth, knowing that he would not have to extend the benevolence longer than this momentary farewell in a public airport.
"Is only a thing," [REDACTED] told Teddy, recalling the Mexican painter as she regarded their belongings.
"Well, several things," her mild husband had responded, standing amid the wreckage. But he wasn't as aware of things as [REDACTED] was, and when she returned home she had to revise the list he'd made for the police and State Farm, enumerating the strangely modest items that the thieves had taken, the list oddly long.
And odder what they'd left behind: the insignia on the living-room wall bothered [REDACTED], a mysterious metallic-blue symbol, calligraphic and deranged, a snake in a Celtic knot, swallowing its own tail, and yet something less specific than that. How could the vandals be so talented with paint, so artful, and yet still so bent on destruction? [REDACTED] found an old can of paint, left over from the last time she and Teddy had done the walls, and, like the Mexican graffiti-coverer, she found herself tracing atop the markings, moving her arm in an approximation of what the intruders had done, following the devious twists with her own brush. But the blue spray paint bled through, the image emerging in creepy shadow fashion, like a bruise surfacing on flesh. Professional painters finally had to come and sand the wall, gouge it, prime it, restore it.
It was her neighbor, Linda, who pointed out the other tagging. This was in [REDACTED]'s sitting porch, where the two women looked out over the sludgy [REDACTED] skyline, drinking wine, before their children came clamoring home from school. The vandals had not done much damage to this room, dull as it was, with rocking chairs and fringed lamps, an absence of electronics and a preponderance of books. Here, the women discussed their love affairs, Linda's former one, [REDACTED]'s current one—trading off, living vicariously, taking turns. "Look," Linda said suddenly. The smog had shifted and sunlight beamed briefly into the room, illuminating what had previously been invisible: there in the corner, eye level with a wicker shelf, a set of shining images. An empty can of spray fixa-tive had been found after the break-in. And here was what had become of that transparent aerosol: hidden pictures on [REDACTED]'s walls. You could see them only in certain kinds of light, at certain angles. These, like the conversations in this room, [REDACTED] shared with no one but Linda.
The thieves were girls, it turned out, fourteen-year-old gang wanna-bes. Having no vehicle in which to haul their bounty, they'd made off with backpacks—hence the portability of what was missing. They got busted just around the block a few weeks later, crawling out of another casement window with a litter of whimpering Chihuahuas in a soup pot. They confessed to everything, being girls, sobbing and sorry, one of them with a pierced eyebrow, a gold cross winking there. Everything that had been stolen—other than a few children's videotapes and some jewelry—was recovered. Even the puppies came through unscathed.
Billie went with [REDACTED] to the police station to recover the family's belongings, housed there as evidence. Together, they examined the heavy plastic bags. There were objects there that [REDACTED] didn't remember owning, things she might have been nostalgic for if she'd noticed their absence. To the uninterested cop who delivered them, she said, "These are my kids' teeth." They rattled like pills in an old Fidelity sample bottle. Why would you steal them? [REDACTED] wondered. The cop was probably wondering why you would keep them.
"And you told us it was the tooth fairy!" Billie said, grinning.
Teeth: parts of her children, and yet not, as expendable as the tails of lizards. Her husband had saved his dead brother's glasses, those smudged lenses that had watched poolside as the boy threw himself away. Kept now in a leather snapcase in Teddy's sock drawer. For a second, [REDACTED] grew dizzy, the pill bottle clutched in her hand—had she checked at home for the snapcase?
"It's just teeth," Billie said dismissively, already back to the bags, searching for her CDs.
Another recovered object was the audiotape Teddy had made of each of the children promising to clean up dog shit if they could please please please get a dog. They'd feed and water and walk and scoop. Oh, please, Daddy, please. Three times he'd done this—not that he'd ever use their words against them. He was easily amused, her husband, charmed by simple pleasures. Such was the way with people who were on track.
" 'Please' is the beg word," Martin had once told [REDACTED], sniffily. He himself never used it. He hadn't taught his daughter to use it, either, a fact of which he was absurdly proud.
"How about 'sorry'?" [REDACTED] had asked.
On the way home from the police station, she popped Teddy's old tape in the Trooper's cassette deck and heard her children, years before, pleading, making a promise they wouldn't keep to a man who wouldn't hold them to it.
"She had her affair," Martin had told [REDACTED], meaning his wife. It had happened before their daughter was born, and was sufficient excuse, he felt, for his carrying on with [REDACTED]. His wife, he claimed, knew about them in some corner of her self. Not the conscious one, of course; he was far too discreet. But, in his opinion, they were finally achieving equilibrium. He felt entitled. A lot of his character was marked by his confidence, his overt sense of self-worth. He was quick and decisive and very handsome—so handsome and fit that [REDACTED] often felt frumpy beside him; then she soothed herself with the knowledge that his wife was unquestionably homely. He'd married her for her mind, he'd told [REDACTED] piously. The sole photograph [REDACTED] possessed of Martin was on page 14 of the 1998 Fidelity newsletter, a legitimate document to have floating around the house. There was something misleadingly breezy in his smile. With his cleft chin, clear eyes, even teeth, he could have been a movie star. Pharmaceutical representation had been only one of many available careers. Elegant, nervous, streamlined Martin, the man to whom [REDACTED] could not fully explain her messy left-coast life. Not that he asked her to.
He did enjoy hearing what [REDACTED]'s therapist had determined about their affair, feeling, naturally, superior to diagnosis. With a few drinks in him, he could be enticed into skewering their colleagues at Fidelity Pharm; he possessed such an elastic and mean imagination that he caricatured brilliantly, chillingly. [REDACTED] named this trait edginess; her husband did not possess it. With edginess, however, came the edge—over which you might fall. [REDACTED] trod lightly.

Concerning her husband Martin held vague and charitable views. The dead brother, the psychotic break, the lesser career, the tendency toward beer and television sports and a spare tire. Sentimental slob, he seemed to have decided, poor bastard; the community-college teaching job, in Martin's opinion, was of the "those who can't" variety. Simple logic dictated that [REDACTED] would need more, other, opposite. What Martin didn't understand, she thought, was that he wasn't really opposite. He wasn't the same as Teddy, true—and no one but [REDACTED] would see the similarity, the fact that he was, like her husband, dedicated to the life he'd made, tight as a tick with his confidence in its value. And attracted, apparently, to someone like [REDACTED]. Moreover, if Martin knew Teddy, if he were Teddy's friend, for instance, singing around the piano, playing with his children, then he wouldn't be able to sleep with [REDACTED]. Period. That was the kind of men they were. [REDACTED], mistress and wife, alone understood the essential, mutual ignorance.
Only after Martin had asked, three separate times over the phone, inflecting each of the simple words differently—"How are you? How are you? How are you?"—did she recall that he still believed her pregnant. In the aftermath of the vandalism, she'd forgotten to miscarry.
On the way home from the police station, she and Billie sat, stuck in traffic. In the pile of recovered loot, Billie had found her old key ring. A real ring with real keys that she had collected as a toddler: skeleton keys, old house keys, skate keys, luggage keys, any random key that was no longer of real use. Having a key ring made her feel like one of the big people. She'd gone around unlocking everything, dishwashers and kittens and tangerines.
"Some of this stuff isn't mine," Billie said now, shaking the set. She showed [REDACTED] a baby-bottle-shaped eraser token that, on closer investigation, proved to be a small pink penis. And there was a silver key, thick, square, with the instruction not to duplicate it on one side and the number 818 on the other.
Eight hundred and eighteen was the number of the hotel room that [REDACTED] and Martin had shared in Cancún, in September, back when they could have accidentally made a baby. This couldn't be that key, because that key had been a card—two cards, actually, one for [REDACTED], one for Martin, kept as souvenirs, then discarded with all the other evidence of her love affair. Discarded in case she was killed, discarded in case someone was charged with investigating her life after it was over. In case she had the power to ambush her husband and children from afar, the power held in objects, mute and inscrutable things.
"Do you think you could find the lock, if you wanted to?" her daughter asked.
"Doubtful," she said.
"I bet I could find it," Billie said. [REDACTED] looked at the girl. At the station, one of the cops had stared at Billie, running his appraising male eyes up and down her slim body before casting a glance in [REDACTED]'s direction. [REDACTED] flashed back to the odd arrangement of underwear on her bed, the seeming import of it, in the topsy-turvy house—a message, if someone cared to receive it.
Billie, scrutinizing now the third of the mystery objects on her key ring, a long, old-fashioned brass key with something etched on it, announced her findings: "Sally Cummins. I know her." It was one of the fourteen-year-old thieves.
"You know her?"
"I know her."
"How could you know her?" [REDACTED] asked. But Billie wasn't going to say. She gazed defiantly into her mother's face. She resembled her father, with only one obvious feature of [REDACTED]'s, her slightly wide nose. Her nostrils flared now, almost imperceptibly, the breathing flex of will, like a thoroughbred's just before its race. If traffic hadn't shifted at precisely that second—brake lights flashing off, movement, horns—[REDACTED] might have been able to get her talking. But the moment passed.
Her daughter's secret was safe, [REDACTED] thought, and so was hers. She loved a man who was not her husband, a situation against which she was ceaselessly building a case, collecting data that proved her own mistake, only to neglect it, disassemble it willingly again and again. Soon she would have to have an imaginary miscarriage or abortion. Either way, she had to undo what she had done, even if it was only in Martin's mind that she had done it. There was Martin—whose existence often felt invented, as if [REDACTED], like a child, had dreamed up an imaginary friend with whom to share her life, this man she loved who lived strictly separate from the sunshine and shimmering asphalt around her, who had yet to be notified of the nonexistent fate of a nonexistent fetus—and there was her now teen-age daughter beside her, whose former voice promised on tape to clean up after the puppy she dreamed of owning. And there was Martin's unseen daughter and her dooming superiority on the flute, and those girls who'd nonchalantly carried their instruments after playing them at a high-school concert one night when [REDACTED] had imagined that she was really pregnant, and then there was the strange girl named Sally who'd crawled into her house, uninvited, to steal and ransack and mark.
I know her, [REDACTED] would remember her daughter saying, whenever those transparent images left on her sitting-porch walls reappeared, ghostly whisperings—Pssst—in the rare right light for many years to come. They would outlive her children's childhoods. They would outlive her puzzling love for Martin. They were outlines of hearts, strangely enough, something that any girl, good or bad, might idly draw, sloppy valentines to remind [REDACTED] of other lies she believed. 

