SIN:  EARLY  IMPRESSIONS  £  Owen's  childhood  happiness  had  to  be  distilled  into  one  moment,  it  would  be  the  day  of  a  snowstorm,  in  the  vicin-  ity  of  Christmas-midafternoon,  the  outdoors  already  darkening  under  the  snow  clouds,  tinsel  and  needles  falling  off  the  holiday  evergreen  in  the  front  parlor  onto  the  miniature  landscape  below,  which  he  and  his  mother  had  concocted  of  cotton  and  sponge  trees  and  fragile  papier-mi@ché  houses  gath-  ered  around  the  speckled  mirror  of  a  pond,  his  little  blue  Lionel  train  with  its  transparent  smell  of  lubricating  oil  as-  sembled  on  its  oval  track-when  the  clacking  letter  slot  announced  that  Mr.  Bingham  had  trudged  through  the  bliz-  zard  and,  for  the  second  time  that  day,  delivered  the  mail.  That  mailmen  walked  and  trolley  cars  clanged  through  the  snow  seemed  to  confirm  the  Holly-  wood,  comic-strip  version  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  reality;  we  were  as  safe,  and  as  lovingly  regarded  from  above,  as  the  tiny,  unaging  figures  in  a  shaken  snow  globe.  Little  Owen  believed  everything  he  was  told,  and  believed  in  everything  his  environ-  ment's  elders  urged  upon  him.  He  took  comfort,  perhaps  abnormally  much,  from  the  town's  presiding  public  pres-  ences-the  schoolteachers,  and  the  highway  crew,  who  from  theirtarry  truck  threw  down  cinders  in  winter  and  smok-  ing  gravel  in  the  summer,  and  the  three  town  cops,  one  short,  one  fat,  andone  with  a  rumored  drinking  problem,  not  to  mention  the  little  old  lady,  her  glasses  on  a  cord  around  her  neck,  who  accepted  the  monthly  electric  bill  at  her  barred  window  in  Borough  Hall,  and  the  mail-  man,  stocky,  stalwart  Mr.  Bingham,  who  with  the  heroism  of  the  well-publicized  postal-service  slogan  plodded  his  way  up  and  down  Mifflin  Street  twice  a  day,  leaning  decidedly  away  from  his  leather  pouch,  in  which  Mickey  Mouse  comic  books  and  secret  coding  rings  and  signed  photographs  of  movie  stars  would  sometimes  come  to  Owen.  10  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  9,  2002  BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  Just  slightly  above  the  administrators  of  local  order  were  the  national  celebri-  ties.  They  were,  indeed,  more  accessible  and  familiar:  Jack  Benny  and  Fibber  McGee  cracking  their  jokes  and  suffer-  ing  their  embarrassments  on  the  little  Philco  right  in  the  piano  room,  next  to  the  greasy-armed  easy  chair  where  Owen  ate  peanut-butter  crackers  in  a  double  rapture  of  laughter  and  mastica-  tion;  Tyrone  Power,  his  black  eyebrows  knitted  in  a  troubled  frown,  andJoan  Crawford,  her  silky  wide  lips  bravely  tremulous  and  her  great  eyes  each  har-  boring  a  tear  that  would  fill  a  bucket,  on  the  screen  at  the  sloping  little  movie  house,  the  Scheherazade,  on  the  avenue  with  the  trolley  tracks;  and  the  tweedy,  pipe-sucking  writers  and  bespectacled  lab-coated  inventors  and  slick-haired  giddy  café-society  people  present  in  the  shiny  magazines,  Life  and  Liberty  and  Colher's  and  the  Saturday  Evening  Post,  on  the  upright  wooden  rack  at  Eberly's  Drug  Store,  buyable  by  any  local  person  with  a  dime.  There  was  a  friendliness,  a  closeness,  in  the  way  this  firmament  curved  above  the  town  of  Willow;  the  voices  of  Bing  Crosby  and  Lowell  Thomas  and  Kate  Smith,  purely  melo-  dious  and  informative,  carried  none  of  the  abrasive  demands  of  real  voices,  and  yet  these  celebrities,  to  judge  from  the  sketches  on  the  radio  comedies,  behaved  much  like  Owen's  family,  having  quarrels  that  faded  away  and  visiting  the  bank  and  the  dentist.  Jack  Benny  even  went  next  door  in  [REDACTED]  to  borrow  a  cup  of  sugar  from  Ronald  Colman.  At  their  continental  distance  these  stars  partook  of  the  life  lived  in  Owen's  neighbor-  hood,  with  its  spindly  porches  and  buck-  ling  retaining  walls.  There  was  no  better  way  to  live-no  grander,  more  virtuous  country  than  [REDACTED],  and  no  homier  state  than  [REDACTED].  Willow  had  been  a  &quot;string  town,&quot;  a  straggle  of  houses  grown  from  a  wayside  inn  along  the  road,  a  road  that,  followed  along  a  southeasterly  river  for  forty-five  miles,  eventually  reached  [REDACTED]  but  was  here  called  Mifflin  Street,  after  the  quarrelsome  first  governor  of  the  Keystone  State.  Three  miles  in  the  other  direction  lay  a  medium-sized  city,  [REDACTED],  with  its  factories  of  blackened  brick  set  right  in  amid  the  row  houses,  its  railroad  tracks  cutting  the  downtown  in  two,  its  red-light  district  called  Cherry  Alley,  its  corner  bars  fronted  in  PermaStone,  its  movie  palaces  of  pseudo-Islamic  gran-  deur,  and  its  noisy,  porky  restaurants  &quot;rip-off  joints,&quot;  Owen's  father  called  them.  He  hated  eating  out;  he  hated  being  waited  on,  especially  by  men,  who  he  felt  were  more  expensive  and  bullying  than  waitresses;  he  hated  rich  restaurant  food,  which  sometimes  made  him  sick;  he  hated  dessert,  the  sales  tax,  and  the  tip.  Owen's  mother,  overweight  in  all  but  his  earliest  memories  of  her,  loved  eating  well,  and  would  sit  there  cowed  and  fuming  while  her  husband  methodically  ruined  her  pleasure.  Or  so  it  seemed  to  her  small  son,  their  only  child,  who  read  the  marital  drama  from  a  limited  point  of  view,  sympathizing  with  his  mother.  Yet  his  father's  fear  of  running  out  of  money  sank  into  his  own  stomach,  and  gnawed  there;  it  was  not  exactly  sin  but  an  excuse  for  sin,  rubbing  right  next  to  it.  He  could  see  how  people  could  steal,  if  they  were  poor  enough.  The  sandstone  inns,  seeds  of  villages  some  of  which  thrived  and  expanded  while  others  remained  a  decaying  hud-  dle,  were  spaced  every  three  miles  or  so,  the  distance  a  man  could  walk  in  an  hour,  ora  team  of  horses  could  pull  a  farm  wagon  on  a  summer  day  without  needing  to  be  watered.  Farm  life  still  controlled  time.  Old  people  dozed  in  the  middle  of  the  day.  Neighbors  on  the  street  peddled  asparagus,  beans,  and  tomatoes  grown  in  their  back  yards  to  one  another,  and  Miffin  Street,  with  its  high  crown  that  made  rainwater  rush  in  the  gutters,  resounded  in  the  morning  to  the  languid  hoofbeats  of  horses  drawing  wagons  to  the  farmers'  market  ahalf  mile  away,  on  the  far  side  of  the  [REDACTED]  Pike,  which  had  trolley  tracks  in  its  cen-  ter.  By  the  time  Owen  was  born,  the  set-  tlement,  named  for  an  old  willow  tree  by  the  inn,  its  roots  watered  by  the  creek  that  wandered  toward  [REDACTED],  had  been  incorporated  as  a  borough,  and  shelf,  overlooked  a  vacant  lot  where  he  played  with  the  other  children  of  the  neighborhood  for  an  hour  after  supper  in  summer,  in  a  milky  twilight,  the  long  grass  scratchy,  going  to  seed.  Fungo,  kick  the  can,  touch  football:  girls  played  them  all,  since  the  neighborhood  held  more  girls  than  boys.  Once,  in  the  lot's  matted  grasses,  flattened  and  wet  with  weeds  every  day  to  meet  Buddy  Rourke,  his  friend  from  the  class  above  his,  so  they  could  walk  to  school  together,  away  from  the  pack  of  girls  from  Second  Street.  Buddy  had  no  father,  which  made  him  strange  and  slightly  frighten,  ing.  He  was  moody.  He  had  straight  brown  hair  that  bristled  forward  and  a  mouth  that  never  smiled,  because  of     had  grown  streets  parallel  to  the  one  his  house  was  on-Second  Street,  and  then  Third  and  Fourth,  climbing  a  hill  where  children  sledded  in  winter,  down  the  packed  snow,  bouncing  through  the  barricaded  intersections,  until  the  ride  ended  with  a  spurt  of  sparks  on  a  bed  of  cinders  the  borough  crew  had  shovelled  from  a  truck.  The  sparks,  the  packed  snow,  the  Christmas  trees  in  the  front  parlors  all  along  the  walk  to  school  lasted  for  only  a  few  days,  scattered  3  through  a  drab  damp  winter,  but  made  3  memories  that  shaped  the  year  and  g  tugged  time  forward.  Warm  weather  lasted  from  March  to  5  October.  Owen's  little  bedroom,  with  a  its  wainscoted  walls  and  single  book-  ERW  dew-for  it  was  fall,  and  school  had  begun-Owen  came  upon  his  own  glasses,  in  the  brown  snap  case  that  had  vanished  some  days  before.  He  had  looked  everywhere  in  the  house,  and  his  mother  had  confided  what  a  grief  it  would  be  for  his  father  to  order  and  pay  for  a  replacement  pair.  It  was  a  mir-  acle,  it  seemed  to  the  child,  bending  down  and  taking  the  case,  damp  with  its  nights  and  days  of  waiting  for  him  to  find  it,  into  his  hand.  Inside,  yes,  were  the  gold-rimmed  disks  that  sharpened  his  sight,  the  little  shapes  of  tortoise-  shell  that  left  dents  in  his  noise,  the  curved  metal  handles  that  hurt  his  ears.  Perhaps  it  was  less  than  a  miracle,  for  he  took  this  diagonal  path  through  the  braces,  shiny  metal  bands  with  a  silver  square  in  the  middle  of  each  tooth.  Owen  wanted  to  run  back  to  tell  his  mother  that  he  had  found  his  glasses  and  his  father  wouldn't  have  to  pay  for  new  ones,  but  he  didn't  want  to  be  late  for  Buddy,  and  hurried  on,  the  recovered  case  making  the  pocket  of  his  knick-  ers  damp.  From  this  same  side  of  the  house,  early  on  another  morning,  he  heard  the  sound  of  a  shot,  beyond  the  vacant  lot.  He  had  been  sleeping.  He  seemed  to  awake  in  the  moment  before  hearing,  as  if  in  a  dream,  the  noise  that  had  woken  him;  he  had  seen  enough  gangster  mov-  ies  to  know  the  sound  of  gunpowder    under  percussion,  but  in  the  movies  it  came  in  machine-gun  waves,  whereas  this  was  a  single,  lonely  sound.  His  parents  heard  it,  too,  for  they  stirred  in  their  bedroom,  beyond  his  closed  door,  and  the  two  voices,  male  and  female,  intertwined  and  then  fell  silent  again.  It  was  not  quite  dark  out-  side;  the  trees  in  the  side  yard  had  sil-  houettes,  their  masses  welling  into  that  wash  of  gray  light,  with  a  faint  brown  tinge  to  the  sky,  be-  fore  birds  began  to  twitter.  The  street  was  silent,  devoid  of  traffic.  Later,  there  was  a  siren,  and  later  still  the  news,  reported  at  break-  fast  by  his  father,  who  had  been  up  the  street  newsgathering,  that  a  young  man  in  the  Hoffmans'  household,  two  doors  up  from  the  house  next  to  the  vacant  lot,  had  shot  himself,  with  a  service  revolver  that  Wes  Hoffman  had  kept  from  his  time  in  the  Great  War.  Danny  Hoffman  was  not  yet  twenty,  but  a  child  under  his  super-  vision  at  a  summer  camp  had  dived  into  shallow  water  and  broken  his  neck,  and  his  responsibility  had  haunted  him,  though  it  had  happened  a  summer  ago.  Danny  had  never  been  the  same;  he  had  stayed  in  the  house  listening  to  the  radio  serials  and  had  stopped  looking  for  a  job.  That  was  the  explanation.  In  thir-  teen  years  of  depression  and  world  war,  from  1932  to  1945,  this  was  the  most  dramatic  event  in  Owen's  neighbor-  hood.  The  woman  across  the  street,  Mrs.  Yost,  had  a  five-star  flag  in  her  front  window,  but  all  five  soldier-sons  came  back  safe.  Skip  Potteiger  got  Mary  Lou  Brumbach  next  door  pregnant  when  she  was  only  seventeen  but  then  he  mar-  ried  her  so  it  was  all  right-by  V-J  Day  the  baby  was  in  a  carriage  Mary  Lou  pushed  back  and  forth  on  her  way  to  the  Acme,  over  the  shallow  troughs  that  carried  roof  water  out  to  the  gutter  and  the  sidewalk  squares  the  roots  of  the  horse-chestnut  trees  were  tilting  up,  tripping  you  on  roller  skates.  On  hot  summer  evenings  the  sounds  of  fam-  ily  quarrels  would  come  across  the  street  from  the  screened  windows  of  the  crowded  row  houses  on  the  other  side,  the  high  side,  up  cement  steps  breach,  ing  retaining  walls  that  leaned  outward  precariously,  but  there  were  no  divorces,  as  Owen  remembered;  divorces  were  things  that  happened  elsewhere,  in  [REDACTED]  and  New  York,  and  were  tragic  scandals,  producing  what  nobody  and  certainly  no  child  wanted,  broken  homes.  The  veryphrase  had  a  sinful,  terrible  sound-a  stone  dropped  into  an  abyss,  into  bombed  houses  such  as  filled  the  screen  now  in  the  newsreels  at  the  Scheherazade.  The  world  was  full  of  sin,  it  seemed,  and  only  the  United  [REDACTED]  could  put  it  right.  But  there  was  no  putting  right,  p,  no  reversing,  the  bullet  with  which  pc.)  Danny  had  ended  his  own  life.  That  was  the  ultimate  sin,  the  Bible  said,  according  to  Owen's  Sunday-school  teachers,  especially  Mr.  Dickinson,  who  managed  the  bank.  Killing  yourself  was  worse  than  killing  a  man  in  self-  defense,  which  was  what  the  Yostboys  were  doing  overseas.  It  was  as  if,  on  quiet  Mifflin  Street,  where  the  horses  still  made  their  clip-clop  sound  early  in  the  morning,  a  crater  hadopened  up  next  to  Owen's  bedroom,  a  crater  of  ter-  rible  possibility,  a  denial  of  everything,  of  trees  and  birds  and  blue  sky  and  the  rest  of  nature.  Buddy  Rourke's  father  had  fallen  into  that  crater,  but  he  hadn't  intended  to,  or  perhaps-it  wasn't  clear,  and  Buddy  didn't  want  to  talk  about  it--the  father  was  still  alive,  but  living  somewhere  else,  with  another  family.  He  had,the  word  was,  &quot;strayed.&quot;  There  was  another  kind  of  sin,  also  dizzying.  On  the  back  wall  of  the  Wil-  low  playground  equipment  shed  a  child's  red  crayon  had  scribbled  two  penises  (the  word  was),  their  tips  touching.  Close  by,  an  older,  more  knowing  hand  had  incised  in  a  pencil  that  gouged  its  lines  deep  into  the  yellow-painted  wood  what  looked  like  aswollen  letter  &quot;M&quot;  but  which,  on  examination,  was  a  naked  woman,  legs  bent  at  the  knee  and  spread  to  reveal  a  slit,  a  pumpkin-seed  shape,  curls  of  hair  around  and  above  it,  and  below  it  a  dot  that  Owen  could  not  name  even  to  himself,  in  the  silence  of  his  head,  it  was  so  shameful.  Refining  his  idea,  the  artist  showed  between  the  thighs  two  breasts  with  blackened  erect  nipples  and,  between  them,  what  Owen  deciphered  as  the  underside  of  a  nose  with  its  two  nostrils.  The  woman  was  opening  herself  to  be  (as  older  boys  said)  fucked:  that  was  clear.  Why  would  she  do  this?&gt;-that  was  not  clear.  Yet  it  was  (G  certain  that  a  woman  somewhere  had  allowed  herself  to  be  viewed  this  help-  less  way  and  drawn  so  that  this  image  could  be  created  here.  She  had  no  arms  or  head  and  her  ankles  trailed  off  with-  out  feet;  the  artist  felt  these  were  ines-  sential-the  essential  parts  of  her  were  depicted,  and  something  stirred  below  Owen's  belly  in  acknowledgment  that  this  was  true,  what  mattered  most  was  shown.  The  slit,  the  hair,  the  little  dot,  and  nipples  aimed  upward  like  stubby  anti-aircraft  guns.  Yet  the  girls  all  around  him  seemed  remote  from  these  essentials.  They  had  brown  legs  from  being  at  the  play-  ground  all  summer,  and  could  run  as  fast  as  he.  They  liked  to  win  at  all  the  games-roof  ball  and  box  hockey  and  Chinese  checkers.  Ginger  Bitting,  a  girl  in  his  class  from  Second  Street,  would  hang  upside  down  from  the  jungle  gym,  hanging  on  with  only  her  bent  legs  while  her  arms,  thin  and  freckled  with  a  whitish  fuzz,  reached  down  toward  thedust  and  her  long  hair,  reddish  and  fine  like  the  dust,  hung  down  between  her  arms.  If  her  legs  let  go  she  would  drop  and  might  break  her  neck,  like  the  boy  at  camp  under  poor  Danny  Hoffman's  care.  But  she  never  did.  Ginger  with  her  freckles,  and  her  eyes  like  green  glass  a  light  was  shining  through,  was  the  most  dar-  ing,  the  most  wiry  girl  in  his  class  at  grade  school,  the  fastest  on  her  feet,  the  best  singer,  and  the  captain  of  the  girls'  team  when  the  boys  played  them  at  recess  soccer.  If  she  stole  his  cap  or  plaid  book  bag  on  the  way  home  from  school  he  could  never  catch  her  until  she  let  him.  On  the  playground  swing  she  would  kick  out  and  soar;  the  swing  chains  would  snap  and  tug  and  shake  the  pipe  frame,  pulling  her  back  from  falling  as  she  reached  horizontal;  still  she  kicked  higher,  her  brown  legs  stiff.  He  watched  her  feet  reach  for  the  sky,  in  their  creased  and  scuffed  brown  shoes.  Back  then,  he  could  wear  ankle-high  sneakers,  but  girls  wore  real  shoes,  with  laces  and  smooth  soles.  The  playground  was  approached  from  the  alley  behind  Owen's  house,  on  a  path  between  two  cornfields,  and  then  along  a  kind  of  grassy  road  between  the  baseball  bleachers  and  a  row  of  cherry  trees  gone  wild.  Ginger  would  climb  these  trees  in  her  slippery  shoes,  higher  than  Owen  would  ever  dare.  He  would  watch  her  as  she  ascended  but  he  never  saw  up  her  shorts  anything  like  the  com-  plicated  business  drawn  on  the  back  of  the  equipment  shed.  In  the  quiet,  long-  shadowed  hour  after  the  supervisor  and  the  other  children  had  gone  home,  and  the  equipment-the  hockey  sticks  and  Ping-Pong  paddles  and  checker  boards-  was  all  locked  up,  he  would  experiment  on  the  jungle  gym,  hanging  by  his  arms  and  bent  knees  and  daring  himself  to  let  go  with  his  hands.  But  he  never  could.  If  he  fell  and  broke  his  neck  he  would  lie  there  all  night,  darkness  and  dew  cover-  ing  him,  and  be  found  only  in  the  morn-  ing  when  the  supervisor,  young  Miss  Mull,  arrived  to  run  up  the  flag  on  the  pole  and  lead  the  children  in  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance.  Ginger  had  satellites,  though  the  girls  with  her  perhaps  did  not  think  of  them-  selves  that  way.  Each  probably  thought  of  herself,  though  it  was  hard  to  believe,  as  the  center  of  the  universe,  just  as  Owen  did.  There  were  a  lot  of  Bar-  baras-Barbara  Emerich,  Barbara  Jane  Gross,  Barbara  Dolinski-and  Alice  Stottlemeyer  and  Georgene  King  and  Carolyn  McManus  and  Grace  Bickta,  all  from  Owen's  street  or  the  streets  above,  who  collected  on  the  sidewalks  and  walked  together  to  elementary  school  and  back.  It  was  Alice  Stottle-  meyer,  shorter  than  the  others  and,  like  Owen,  saddled  with  glasses  on  her  nose,  who  first  kissed  him  with  a  secret  mean-  ing,  a  sort  of  push  with  her  mouth,  tight  but  soft,  at  a  game  of  spin  the  bottle  they  were  playing  at  somebody's  birth,  day  party,  not  Owen's.  His  own  birthday  parties,  when  his  mother  gave  them,  were  usually  disasters  that  sent  him  up  the  stairs  to  his  room  crying,  because  his  guests  were  having  more  fun  than  he,  the  birthday  boy,  who  had  not  received  ex-  actly  the  presents  he  had  hoped  for.  His  mother  would  never  allow  the  game  of  spin  the  bottle.  Their  glasses  clicked,  his  and  Alice's,  in  the  kiss  while  the  other  children  crowed  and  jeered  and  then  fell  silent,  seeing  they  were  kissing  seriously,  all  in  a  second.  Then  the  bottle  spun  on,  in  the  center  of  the  ring  they  made,  on  the  linoleum  floor  or  painted  concrete  floor  of  the  basement  they  were  in,  con-  verted  to  a  den  or  rumpus  room.  That  was  one  of  the  many  social  distinctions  that  crisscrossed  Willow,    the  one  between  people  who  had  base-  ments  converted  into  recreation  rooms,  with  panelling  and  carpeting  and  easy  chairs,  and  those  who,  like  Owen's  fam-  ily,  still  had  cellars,  with  a  sinister  bin  of  filthy  coal  and  cobwebbed  shelves  of  preserves  in  Mason  jars  and  a  spatter-  painted  old  washing  machine,  tub-  shaped  and  fitted  with  a  wringer  of  rubber.  The  wet  clothes  would  slowly  emergefrom  between  the  two  cylin-  ders  of  white  rubber  like  giant  wrin-  kled  tongues  and  spill  into  the  wicker  clothes  basket.  Owen,  when  younger  than  when  Alice  Stottlemeyer  kissed  him,  and  not  yet  envious  of  families  with  easy  chairs  and  Ping-Pong  tables  and  electric  train  tracks  set  up  on  ply-  wood  tables  in  their  basements,  was  enchanted  by  the  plugged-in  washing  machine's  powerful,  rhythmic  back-  and-forth  beating  action,  stirring  up  a  mass  of  bubbles,  and  the  smell  of  soap  flakes  so  strong  it  seemed  to  scour  clean  his  head  and  sinuses,  and  the  woody,  springy  scent  of  the  wicker  basket,  with  its  handles  so  far  apart  he  could  not  at  first  reach  both  at  once.  It  was  inev-  itable  that  someday  he  would  stick  his  fingers  in  the  wringer,  and  feel  in  a  quick  rush  the  relentless  pressure  climbing  toward  his  wrist,  and  scream  in  terror.  It  was  one  of  those  moments  like  the  gunshot  in  the  night  when  the  horror     that  lies  beneath  the  sunny  daily  surface  of  things  rises  up,  but  not  as  bad:  a  safety  device  popped  the  wringers  apart  before  his  mother  could  dart  around  him  and  reach  them.  He  remainedan  admirer  of  thepro-  cess,  the  wash  that  travelled  through  the  wringer  into  the  basket  and  up  the  cellar  stairs  through  the  bulkhead  door  into  the  back  yard,  where  the  white  bed-  sheets  hung  about  him  like  the  billow-  ing  walls  of  a  fragile  castle,  a  jungle  pal-  ace  he  was  exploring  all  by  himself;  a  shift  of  breeze  in  the  back  yard  would  cause  the  clothes  pole  to  lean  in  a  differ-  ent  direction,  so  that  his  face  was  brought  into  abrupt  contact  with  the  towering,  damp,  light-flooded  cotton.  Handing  up  clothespins  to  Momma  or  Grammy,  who  lived  with  them,  was  one  of  his  first  ways  of  being  useful.  It  was  too  bad  that  Alice  wasn't  pret-  tier  and  taller,  and  that  like  Owen  she  got  good  marks  at  school.  Shewas  bright,  which  made  her  dull.  He  was  drawn  to  the  daredevil  girls  from  fami-  lies  his  own  looked  down  on,  because  of  some  whispered  ancestral  taint  or  scandal  or  because  the  father  drank  or  did  manual  labor  or  was  not  nice  to  the  mother.  Did  this  not-niceness  take  the  form  of  hitting  her,  or  calling  her  names,  or  something  else,  furtive  and  dirty,  that  &quot;Sometimes  it  would  be  helpful  if  you  were  a  bit  more  androgynous.&quot;  happened?  Even  in  Willow,  let  alone  [REDACTED],  there  were  places,  bars  and  pool  halls  and  bowling  alleys,  that  smelled  of  misbehavior,  of  murky  transaction.  In  the  nameless  gravel  alley  that  ran  beside  the  hedge  of  Owen's  yard  and  then  at  a  right  angle  behind  the  asbestos-shingled  chicken  house  his  grandfather  had  built  when  he  first  moved  to  town  from  the  country,  and  then  past  several  garages  and  small  barns  at  the  bottom  of  peo-  ple's  yards,  and  a  small  asphalt-shingled  shack,  called  a  gun  shop,  where  a  one-  eyed  man  named  Smokey  Frye  noisily  pounded  and  ground  metal  at  the  odd  hours  he  was  present,  there  was  a  hand-  painted  windowless  cinder-block  build-  ing  that  a  sign  above  the  door  identified  as  the  Gifford  Pinchot  Wildlife  Soci-  ety,  from  which  drifted  the  sounds  of  men  drinking  and  playing  cards.  The  grownups  of  Willow  needed  their  fun,  and  for  young  people  there  was  the  Recreation  Hall,  the  Rec  Hall,  opposite  the  elementary  school,  where  kids  older  than  Owen  danced  and  played  pinball  and  Ping-Pong  and  it  was  said  that  a  girl  two  classes  ahead  of  his,  Carol  Wis-  niewski,  let  herself  be  fucked  by  Marty  Naftzinger  standing  up,  there  in  the  shadowy  gritty  space  between  the  Rec  Hall  and  the  factory  building  beside  it,  where  they  made  hosiery  and  then,  dur-  ing  the  war,  parachutes.  Willow  during  the  war,  as  Owen  went  from  nine  to  thirteen,  was  like  a  prairie  town  brushed  by  black  clouds  that  swept  low  overhead  but  did  not  discharge  their  tornado,  though  at  the  Scheherazade  there  were  newsreels  of  airplanes  turning  cities  into  fields  of  fire  and  of  G.L.s  storming  sandy  island  beaches  strafed  by  fanatical  Japanese  who  had  to  be  burned  out  of  their  caves  with  flamethrowers  like  nests  of  insects.  While  the  great  Eurasian  continent  from  end  to  end  seethed  with  violence  and  moving  masses  and  the  oceans  drank  torpedoed  ships,  North  [REDACTED]  held  its  breath,  a  land  of  women  and  children  and  old  men  and  price  controls  and  rationing  tokens  and  war  stamps  and  [REDACTED]  comedians  on  the  radio.  Yet  the  tingle  of  global  gambles  filled  the  air  and  infected  their  island  of  peace;  there  was  a  speeding  up,  a  sense  of  stakes  higher  than  the  old  propri-  eties.  Carol  Wisniewski  let  herself  be  fucked  by  Marty  Naftzinger  standing   up,  and  Momma  took  a  job  at  the  para-  chute  factory  and  did  plane-spotting  on  the  roof  of  the  fire  station,  playing  solitaire  with  a  special  deck  of  cards,  and  Daddy  put  on  a  warden's  helmet  in  air-raid  drills  looking  for  light  leaks  from  the  windows  along  Mifflin  Street.  Owen  took  the  paper  off  tin  cans  and  jumped  on  them,  flattening  them  on  the  cement  floor  of  the  chicken  house  for  the  war  effort,  while  the  chickens  rustled  and  cackled  on  their  crusty  rungs,  or  in  the  cubbyholes  where  glass  eggs  lured  them  into  laying  more.  The  eggs-  brown,  speckled,  dabbled  with  dung-  Grammy  soldin  reused  paper  egg  car-  tons  to  her  relatives,  and  the  flattened  tin  cans  piled  up  on  the  school  grounds,  making  ashining  mountain  that  only  Eddie  Kroninger,  the  three-star  general  of  fifth-grade  scrap  collection,  was  al-  lowed  to  climb.  When  Owen  suggested  to  Buddy  Rourke  that  he  donate  his  braces  to  the  scrap  drive,  Buddy  didn't  think  it  was  funny.  Buddy  was  a  serious  boy,  headed  for  a  career  in  engineering  or  construc-  tion  or  electricity.  He  could  fix  lamps  and  knew  how  to  splice  the  wires  of  Christmas  lights  when  a  bad  socket  made  the  whole  string  dark.  He  taught  Owen  how  to  do  this,  taming  a  current  that  would  flow  one  way,  with  magical,  instant  results,  but  which,  with  contacts  reversed,  would  balk  and  melt  the  wires.  Though  the  two  could  achieve  great  rapport  working  on  projects  in  Buddy's  cellar-not  quite  a  rumpus  room  but  better  lit  than  Owen's,  with  a  well-  stocked  workbench  that  had  been  cre-  ated  andabandoned  by  Buddy's  absent  father-there  was  a  potential  awkward-  ness  in  the  relationship  owing  to  Buddy's  being  older.  Once,  anticipating  Buddy's  coming  to  his  house  one  afternoon  to  play  Monopoly-a  game  the  boys  for  a  season  were  passionate  about,  before  they  discovered  chess  and  gin  rummy-  Owen  had  set  up  the  board  on  the  living-room  rug  with  a  loving  elabora-  tion,  arranging  the  Chance  and  Com-  munity  Chest  cards  ina  spiral,  like  the  staircases  in  [REDACTED]  musicals,  and  setting  out  the  red  hotels  and  green  wooden  houses  in  a  formal  pattern,  a  perfect  Christmas-colored  village  seen  from  an  airplane.  Buddy,  coming  into  the  room,  said  with  limpid  disgust,  &quot;Oh,  Owie!,&quot;  and  scrabbled  the  cards  into  the  usual  rough  stack  and  dumped  the  hotels  and  houses  back  into  the  box.  Owen  was  stung,  and  from  then  on  tried  not  to  overcommit  himself  to  a  relationship,  or  show  how  much  he  cared.  Make  sure  the  circuits  are  established  before  plugging  anything  in:  otherwise,  meltdown.  Once,  after  a  fight  over  something,  leaving  the  basement  in  tears,  Owen  heard  himself  yelling  at  Buddy,  the  crowning  insult,  &quot;At  least  I  have  a  father!&quot;  To  taunt  his  friend  with  this,  his  lack  of  a  father-he  was  appalled  at  himself.  Shame  bubbled  up  like  mucky  black  water  when  his  foot  went  through  thin  ice  in  the  swamp  beyond  the  high-  school  grounds.  This  had  happened  to  him  on  a  walk.  His  parents  took  walks  on  Sunday  afternoons,  and  dragged  him  along,  though  the  very  prospect  made  his  legs  heavy,  and  he  would  lag  behind  so  far  that  his  father  would  eventually  double  back  and  lift  him  up  onto  his  shoulders.  It  felt  so  high  up  there,  and  his  father's  head  so  strangely  large  and  hairy,  that  after  a  while  he  was  happy  to  return  to  the  earth  on  his  own  legs.  There  were  several  routes  the  walk  could  take.  One  way  was  to  turn  down  the  nameless  alley  beyond  their  hedge  andwalk  across  [REDACTED]  Avenue  and  through  the  newer  section  of  Wil-  low  to  Shale  Hill  and  climb  it,  if  they  had  the  energy.  There  were  victory  gar-  dens  along  the  base  but,  up  higher,  paths  wandered  between  pines  and  flat  rocks  that  reminded  him  of  unmade  beds  or  sliding  stacks  of  newspapers  getting  wrinkled  in  the  rain.  Another  way  led  across  town  to  the  farmers'-  market  sheds  and  a  stream  dammed  to  make  a  pond  that  held  a  pair  of  swans.  People  fed  them,  with  crackers  or  crusty  bread;  his  mother  said  it  made  the  swans  dependent  on  a  food  source  out-  side  of  nature  and  so  was  wrong.  A  third  way  had  Owen  and  his  parents  turning  right  at  the  gap  in  the  hedge  and  going  up  Mifflin  Street  past  the  Baker  farm  pigsties  with  their  terrible  smell,  past  the  creek  where  it  was  solid  green  with  watercress  that  Grammy  sometimes  gathered,  to  a  road  that  took  them  up  to  Cedar  Top,  which  faced  Shale  Hill  across  the  valley  that  held  Willow.  Beyond  the  town  bounds,  unpainted  houses  held  rusting  cars  in  their  slanted  yards  and  mangy  dogs  barked  and  barked  as  the  three  of  them  passed;  then  came  a  stretch  of  woods,  and  a  hilltop  intersection  where  a  Pen-  Supreme  ice-cream  stand  had  been  aban-  doned.  They  would  turn  right  and  head  back  downhill,  through  more  woods,  and  pass,  on  the  left,  the  spiky  sand-  stone  wall  of  the  Pomeroy  estate-once  ortwice  Owen  heard  the  sound  of  a  tennis  ball  back  and  forth,  and  the  splashing  of  a  swimming  pool,  but  usu-  ally  nobody  seemed  to  be  home;  the  lives  of  the  rich  were  hard  to  imagine-  and  then  on  the  right  the  Willow  cemetery,  its  granite  stones,  pale  pink  and  pale  gray,  sharp-cornered  and  bald  in  the  sunlight.  Owen's  heart  always  lifted,  and  the  weight  fell  off  his  legs,  when  he  and  his  parents  came  into  the  middle  of  Willow,  which  he  walked  through  every  school  day,  and  which  he  could  reconstruct  store  by  store,  house  by  house,  in  his  mind's  eye  sixty  years  afterward.  t  was  near  the  top  of  the  Cedar  Top  walk  one  day,  just  after  the  forsaken  ice-cream  stand,  that  Owen  noticed  in  the  grit  at  the  side  of  the  road  a  milky-  white  thing  like  a  collapsed  balloon;  it  had  the  glossy  look  of  a  toy.  He  bent  down  to  look  closer  and  his  mother,  be-  hind  and  above  him,  said,  &quot;Don't  touch  if!&quot;  in  the  voice  she  reserved  for  extreme  urgency  and  rebuke.  What  could  be  the  danger?  It  was  not  alive  but  her  voice  suggested  that  it  somehow  was.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Something  batsy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Batsy&quot;  was  a  pretend  word,  a  private  word,  coined  when  he  could  not  yet  pro-  nounce  everything  and  made  words  up  without  meaning  to,  having  to  do  with  food  he  didn't  like,  that  he  thought  too  runny  or  mixed  up  or  like  guts  to  eat.  He  must  have  meant  &quot;bad&quot;  mixed  with  &quot;nasty,&quot;  but  the  word  had  stuck,  as  if  de-  scribing  a  reality  that  couldn't  be  touched  by  the  tongue  with  an  actual  word.  Fresh  bird  doo-doo  on  the  rim  of  the  stone  birdbath  was  another  batsy  thing.  &quot;What  was  it  for?&quot;  he  asked,  the  past  tense  showing  an  awareness  of  some-  thing  discarded,  of  something  whose  mysterious  moment  of  use  was  past.  Both  his  parents  were  silent  as  the  three  of  them  walked  onward,  leav-  ing  the  fascinating  rubbery  thing  be-  hind  in  the  roadside  grit.  They  were  the  kind  of  parents,  not  like  the  parents  of  some  children  he  knew,  who  thought  it  wrong  not  to  answer  a  child's  ques-      tions.  He  could  feel  guilt  eating  at  them.  &quot;It  was  for  tidiness,  Owen,&quot;  his  father  at  last  said.  &quot;Like  a  Kleenex.&quot;  «'They  call  them  stork-stoppers,&quot;  his  mother  added,  her  voice  better-humored  now,  laced  with  a  girlish  complicity.  He  could  feel  his  parents  behind  him  drawn  closer  in  their  secret  knowledge.  Usually  it  was  heand  his  mother  who  had  the  se-  crets,  the  complicity,  in  all  those  hours  when  his  father  was  absent  at  work.  Her  unhappiness  was  the  main  secret,  though  what  exactly  she  was  unhappy  about  he  could  not  quite  guess.  It  was  almost  as  if  just  being  a  woman  was  enough  to  cause  unhappiness.  There  were  days  when  his  mother  went  to  bedand  lay  there  with  her  eyes  shut.  He  stayed  away  from  her  bedroom  when  this  was  the  case,  but  his  little  room  could  be  reached  only  by  walking  through  his  par-  ents',  and  their  exchanges  unignorably  seeped  into  his  ears-the  brisk  thrusts  and  counter-thrusts  of  a  quarrel,  the  sighs  and  groans  of  weariness  in  the  evening,  the  playful  chatter  that  began  the  day.  He  was  happy  to  have  her  love  him  more  than  shedid  his  father,  but  he  wanted  things  to  be  friendly  between  the  two  grownups,  so  that  after  a  nightmare  they  could  comfort  him  by  letting  him  into  the  warm  space  between  them  in  their  bed.  As  he  grew,  he  discovered  more  places  in  Willow  where  sin  cast  its  shadow.  On  top  of  the  equipment  shed  at  the  playground  there  was  a  triangular  space,  under  the  pavilion  roof,  that  you  could  boost  yourself  into  only  by  jumping  and  grabbing  a  crossbeam  and  swinging  your  feet  up,  hanging  in  midair  dangerously  for  a  second,  and  then  leveraging  your  body  onto  the  top  of  the  shed.  As  your  eyes  adjusted,  you  saw  there  were  more  drawings,  never  painted  over,  and  writ-  ten  messages  and  allegations,  involving  girls  and  boys  too  old  for  him  to  have  known.  Ginger  Bitting  sometimes  scram-  bled  up  here,  and  it  was  pleasant  to  stretch  out  imagining  her  beside  him,  and  look-  ing  down  the  perspective  of  the  beaded  boards  to  the  macadam  pavilion  floor.  In  the  seventh  grade,  he  left  the  ele-  mentary  school  and  went  to  the  high-  school  building  half  amile  down  the  av-  enue  toward  [REDACTED].  Though  girls  and  boys  could  enter  anyof  the  doors  and  use  the  grounds  without  the  sexual  divi-  sion  enforced  on  the  elementary-school  playground,  a  certain  air  of  scandal  clung  to  the  lower  windows  on  the  side  of  the  high  school  toward  [REDACTED],  under  the  cor-  ner  classroom.  They  were  the  windows  of  the  girls'  locker  room,  reinforced  with  chicken  wire  and  painted  black  on  the  inside.  Yet  cracks  in  the  aging  paint  ap-  peared,  and  small  holes  were  mysteri-  ously  scratched  in  it,  from  the  inside.  Though  there  wasno  written  prohibi-  tion,  teachers  shooed  boys  away  from  these  windows,  and  the  space,  with  its  mowed  grass  and  narrow  sidewalk,  gath-  ered  such  a  thick,  contagious  aura  of  ru-  mored  glimpse  and  determined  spying  that  Owen  emerged  into  adult  life  with  a  distinct  memory,  like  an  Ingres  seraglio,  of  naked  girls  seen  at  an  angle,  past  sev-  eral  dusty  asbestos-coated  pipes  and  the  green  tops  of  metal  lockers,  their  shining  shoulders  and  shower-wet  flanks-Bar-  bara  Emerich  and  Alice  Stottlemeyer  and  Georgene  King  and  Grace  Bickta  but  somehow  not  Ginger  Bitting,  girls  he  had  grown  up  with,  moving  slowly  in  their  budding  nudity,  oblivious,  as  if  underwater.  Though  his  mother,  a  great  believer  in  nature,  often  walked  around  naked  on  her  way  to  and  from  the  bathroom,  and  when  he  was  a  toddler  would  share  the  tub  with  him,  little  Owen  had  curi-  ously  little  idea  of  what  a  woman's  body  looked  like,  as  if,  she  being  his  mother,  a  heavy  veil  intervened.  It  was  only  fe-  males  his  age  he  could  see,  and  who  could  guide  him.  Once,  wrestling  on  the  baked  late-summer  playground  grass,  after  Miss  Mull  had  gone  home,  with  Doris  Shanahan,  a  square-faced  tomboy  from  the  B-section  of  the  eighth  grade  who  whistled  riding  her  bike  and  liked  to  hang  around  shooting  baskets  with  boys,  he  looked  up  her  shorts  as  she  stood  triumphant  over  him,  straddling  his  face,  and  saw,  thanks  to  her  under-  pants  being  loose,  a  few  curly  black  hairs:  it  was  as  if  he  had  never  seen  pubic  hair  before.  He  himself  still  had  none.  His  seeing  Doris's  was  a  sin,  he  knew,  but  it  made  him  happy,  and  was  real.  It  was  knowledge,  and  knowledge,  all  the  local  authorities  agreed,  was  good  to  have. 