DRUMMOND & SON
By Charles D'Ambrosio
Drummond opened the shop every morning at seven so he and his boy could eat breakfast while the first drop-offs were coming in. The boy liked cereal and sat at the workbench in back, slurping his milk, while Drummond occasionally hustled out to the curb to help a secretary haul a cumbersome I.B.M. from the back seat of a car. The front of the store was a showroom for refurbished machines, displayed on shelves, each with a fresh sheet of white bond rolled into the platen, while the back was a chaos of wrecked typewriters Drummond would either salvage or cannibalize for parts someday. There were two stools and two lamps at the workbench for the rare times when the son felt like joining his father, cleaning keys, but generally after breakfast the boy spent the rest of the day sitting behind Drummond in an old Naugahyde recliner, laughing to himself and saying prayers, or wandering out to the sidewalk to smoke a cigarette. That he step outside to smoke was the only major request Drummond ever made of his son. “Next week’s your birthday,” Drummond said.
“Next week.” The boy finished his cereal, plunking the spoon against the empty bowl. He said, “I think I’ll go outside.”
“How about rinsing your bowl?”
“Oh, yeah.”
“It’s raining pretty hard out.”
“That’s O.K.,” Pete said, grabbing a broken umbrella he’d found in the street, a batty contraption of bent spokes and torn black fabric.
A clear-plastic curtain separated the two parts of the store, and Drummond kept a careful eye on his son from the bench. Drummond had acquired sole ownership of the business after his father died of emphysema, and he still remembered those last months beside him on the bench, the faint whisper as the plastic tube fed the old man oxygen. He knew the tank was pumping air through his dad’s nose and into his lungs, but day after day it sounded as though the life were leaking out of him. The elder Drummond had just cleaned his glasses with a purple shop rag and nudged them back on the bridge of his nose when he died, and it was as if, for a lingering moment, he were looking over the workbench, among a lifetime’s clutter of keys and type bars, dental tools and unravelling ribbons, for his last breath.
Shortly after his dad died, Drummond had started bringing Pete to the shop, and he sometimes guessed that his wife, free of the boy for the first time in years, had discovered she liked living without the burden. She had hinted as much in a letter he recently received, postmarked from her new address in [REDACTED], suggesting that he meet with a social worker to discuss “the future.” He missed his wife tremendously when he opened the envelope and saw the beautiful loops of blue cursive running across the page. He hadn’t written back yet, because he wasn’t sure what to say to this woman whose absence rendered his life so strange. They had eloped during his senior year at West [REDACTED] High, and this would have been their silver anniversary. Without her he felt lonely, but he wasn’t angry, and he wondered if their marriage, after twenty-five years, had simply run its course.
The sheets of white paper in the twenty or so typewriters on display waved in unison when Pete opened the door after smoking his cigarette.
“Now is the time, now is the time, now is the time,” the boy said, sweeping along the shelf and inspecting the sheets.
“You want to do some keys?” Drummond asked.
“Not now,” Pete said, sitting in his brown recliner.
Drummond wore a blue smock and leaned under a bright fluorescent lamp like a jeweller or a dentist, dipping a Q-Tip in solvent and dabbing inked dust off the type heads of an Olivetti Lettera 32. The machine belonged to a writer, a young man, about Pete’s age, who worked next door, at La Bas Books, and was struggling to finish his first novel. The machine was a mess. Divots pocked the platen, and the keys had a cranky, uneven touch, so that they punched through the paper or, on the really recalcitrant letters, the “A” or “Q,” stuck midway and swung impotently at the empty air. Using so much muscle made a crescent moon of every comma, a pinprick of every period. Drummond offered to sell the young man an identical Olivetti, pristine, with case and original instruction manual, but was refused. Like a lot of writers, as Drummond had discovered, the kid believed a resident genie was housed inside his machine. He had to have this one. “Just not so totally fucked up,” he’d said.
Hardly anybody used typewriters these days, but, with the epochal change in clientele brought on by computers, Drummond’s business shifted in small ways and remained profitably intact. He had a steady stream of customers, some loyally held over from the old days, some new. Drummond was a good mechanic, and word spread among an emerging breed of hobbyist. Collectors came to him from around the city, mostly men, often retired, fussy and strange, a little contrary, who liked the smell of solvents and enjoyed talking shop and seemed to believe an unwritten life was stubbornly buried away in the dusty machines they brought in for restoration. His business had become more sociable as a growing tribe of holdouts banded together. He now kept a coffee urn and a stack of Styrofoam cups next to the register, for customers who liked to hang out. There were pockets of people who warily refused the future, or the promise or whatever it was computers were offering, and stuck by their typewriters. Some of them were secretaries who filled out forms, and others were writers, a sudden surge of them from all over [REDACTED]. There were professors and poets and young women with colored hair who wrote for the local weeklies. There were aging lefties who made carbons of their correspondence or owned mimeographs and hand-cranked the ink drums and dittoed urgent newsletters that smelled of freshly laundered cotton for their dwindling coteries. Now and then, too, customers walked in off the street, a stream of curious shoppers who simply wanted to touch the machines, tapping the keys and slapping back the carriage when the bell rang out, leaving a couple of sentences behind.
Drummond tore down the old Olivetti. While he worked, he could hear his son laughing to himself.
“What’s so funny?” Drummond asked.
“Nothing,” the boy said.
“You always say ‘nothing,’ ” Drummond said, “but you keep on laughing. I’d sure like to know for once what you find so funny all the time.”
The boy’s face hadn’t been moved by a real smile in years, and he never cried. He had been quite close to Drummond’s father—who doted on his only grandchild—but the boy’s reaction at the funeral was unreadable: blanker and less emotional than a stranger’s would have been, who at least might have reflected selfishly on his own death, or the death of friends, or death generally, digging up some connection. On the short drive there, Pete had sat slumped in his seat, staring out at the rain-swept, gray city, laughing.

“What are you laughing at?” Drummond had asked.
“Nothing.”
Drummond pressed the boy. On such a momentous day, the laughing had got to him.
“Tell me,” he’d said impatiently.
“I just start to laugh when I see something sad,” Pete had said.
“You think it’s funny?”
“I don’t think I find it funny. But I laugh anyway.”
“Some of these are crooked as hell,” Drummond said now, gently twisting the “T” with a pair of needle-nose pliers. “They’ll never seat right in the guides, even if I could straighten them out. You see that?” He turned in his stool and showed the boy the bent type bar, just as his father had shown him ages ago. “Not with the precision you want, anyway. A good typewriter needs to work like a watch.”
The boy couldn’t carry his end of a conversation, not even with nods of feigned interest. His moods were a kind of unsettled weather, either wind-whipped and stormy with crazy words or becalmed by an overcasting silence. His face, blunt and drawn inward, was now and then seized by spasms, and his body, boggy and soft, was racked by jerky, purposeless movements. He wore slipshod saddle shoes that had flattened and grown wide at the toes like a clown’s, collapsing under his monotonous tread. His button-down blue oxford shirt and his khakis were neatly pressed; Drummond ironed them every morning on a board built into a cupboard in the kitchen. He spritzed them as he’d seen his wife do, putting an orderly crease in slacks that were otherwise so deeply soiled with a greasy sheen that he was never able to wash the stain out.
“I think I’ll go outside,” Pete said.
“You sure smoke a lot,” Drummond told him.
“Am I smiling?”
He wasn’t, but Drummond smiled and said that he was.
“I feel like I am inside,” Pete said.
It was a gray [REDACTED] day. There was a bus stop in front of the shop, and often the people who came in and browsed among the typewriters were just trying to escape the cold. A big, boxy heater with louvred vents hung from the ceiling on threaded pipe, warmly humming, and wet kids would gather in the right spot, huddled with upturned faces under the canted currents of streaming heat. Drummond let them be. He found the familiar moods and rhythms satisfying, the tapping keys enclosed in the larger tapping of the rain. Almost everyone who entered the shop left at least a word behind—their name, some scat, a quote. Even kids who typed a line of gobbledygook managed to communicate their hunger or hurt by an anemic touch or an angry jab. The sullen strokes of a stiffly pointing finger, the frustrated, hammering fist, the tentative, tinkering notes that opened to a torrent as the feel of the machine returned to the hand—all of it was like a single line of type, a continuous sentence. As far back as Drummond could recall, he’d had typewriter parts in his pockets and ink in the crevices of his fingers and a light sheen of Remington gun oil on his skin. His own stained hands were really just a replica of his father’s, a version of the original he could still see, smeared violet from handling silk ribbons, the blunt blue-black nails squeezing soft white bread as the first team of Drummond & Son, taking a lunch break, ate their bologna-and-sweet-pickle sandwiches on Saturday afternoons.
A rosary of maroon beads dangled between the boy’s legs, faintly ticking, as he rocked in his recliner. A silent prayer moved his lips.
“Jesus Christ was brain-dead,” Pete said. “That’s what I’ve been thinking lately.”
Drummond turned on his stool. “Sometimes your illness tells you things, Pete. You know that.” The smutted skin on the boy’s hands was cracked and bleeding. “You need some lotion,” Drummond said. Dead flakes sloughed to the floor, and a snow of scurf whitened the boy’s lap. “You like that Vaseline, don’t you?”
The boy didn’t answer.
“You know I worry,” Drummond said.
“Especially when I talk about God.”
“Yeah, especially.”
“You believe.”
“I do,” Drummond said, although of late he wasn’t sure that was true. “But that’s different.”
“There’s only one true God,” the boy said.
“I know.”
“I was thinking of writing a symphony to prove it.”
“You want some classical?” Drummond asked, reaching for the radio knob.
“Don’t,” Pete said.
“O.K., O.K.”
“I’d show how many ways, how many ideas all lead to one idea. God. I’d get the main structure, and jam around it. The whole thing could be a jam.”
Drummond futzed with the novelist’s machine while he listened to the boy. The old platen’s rubber, cracked and hard as concrete, was partially responsible for chewing up the paper and shredding the ribbons. Pressing his thumbnail into a new one, Drummond found that it was properly soft and pliant, in near-mint condition, and he began pulling out the old platen. Drummond had been one of those kids who, after taking apart an old clock or a radio, actually put it back together again, and his satisfaction at the end of any job still drew on the pleasure of that original competence.
“I’d rather record on a computer,” the boy continued. “Instead of a static piece of stuff, like an album, you go right to the people, right into their brain. You can do that with a computer.”
“You remember about your visitor?”
“Yeah.”
“Today is going to be a little different,” Drummond said. “We’re not going to Dunkin’ Donuts right away.”
“I like the Dunkin’ Donuts,” Pete said.
“I know you do.” Drummond took a deep breath and said firmly, “Today we’re doing things just a little different from normal. You’re having a visitor.”
“Who?”
“She’s a nice lady, and she wants to ask you some questions.”
“I think I’d like to become a baker.”
“What happened to being a janitor?”
“Maybe a janitor at a bakery.”
“Now you’re thinking.” Drummond turned on his stool and looked his son in the eye. “Remember how Mom used to bake bread?”
“No,” said the boy.
“No?” Drummond absently cleaned ink from a fingernail with the blade of a screwdriver. “Of course you do. She’d put a damp towel over the bowl, and you’d sing to her. She used to tell you that it was your singing that made the dough rise, remember?”
Drummond turned back to his workbench and listened to the rain, and to the boy praying and telling the beads. The wall in front of his bench was covered with pinups of writers posed beside their typewriters. Drummond wasn’t particularly well read, but he knew a lot about literature through the machines that made it. This knowledge was handy in selling a Royal Quiet De Luxe to an aspiring writer whose hero was Hemingway, or a Hermes Baby Rocket to a Steinbeck fan. A curiosity he’d never been able to figure out was that many of these writers didn’t really know how to type. They hung like vultures over their machines, clawing at the keyboards with two fingers and sometimes a thumb, and while they were often hugely prolific, they went about it desperately, hunting and pecking, as though scratching sentences out of the dirt. Given their technique, it was a miracle some of them managed to say anything. An editorialist for the [REDACTED] Times told Drummond that he just sat there and hit the machine until, letter by letter, it coughed up the words he wanted. Even Michener, a man Drummond had read and esteemed highly, in part for having typed more than anyone on earth, except perhaps a few unsung women from the bygone era of the secretarial pool, was a clod at the keys.

“You had a really good voice,” Drummond said.
At twenty-minute intervals, the sidewalk filled and then emptied, the shop window blooming with successive crops of black umbrellas as buses came and went. The hour for the appointment with the social worker approached, and Drummond found that he could no longer concentrate. He rolled two sheets of paper into the novelist’s Olivetti, typing the date and a salutation to his wife, then sat with his elbows on the workbench, staring. He wondered if he should drop “Dear” and go simply with “[REDACTED],” keeping things businesslike, a touch cold. Whenever Drummond opened a machine, he saw a life in the amphitheatre of seated type bars, just as a dentist, peering into a mouth for the first time, probably understood something about the person, his age and habits and vices. Letters were gnawed and ground down like teeth, gunked up with ink and the plaque of gum erasers, stained with everything from coffee to nicotine and lipstick, but none of his knowledge helped him now. Drummond wanted to type a letter and update his wife, but the mechanic in him felt as though the soul of what he had to say just wasn’t in the machine. He looked at the greeting again and noticed that the capital “T” in his wife’s name was faintly blurred. That sometimes happened when the type bar struck the guide and slipped sideways at impact, indicating a slight misalignment.
Drummond had been expecting a rendition of his wife, but the woman who walked in the door shortly after noon was nothing like [REDACTED]. She couldn’t have been much older than Pete, and she wore faded jeans and a soft, sloppy V-neck sweater with the sleeves casually bunched up on her elbows. Her hair was long, and her eyes were gray, and her nose, though small, was bulbous. Drummond offered her a stool at the back of the shop and brought her a cup of coffee.
“So, Peter, I’m from Keystone,” she said. “A halfway house in Fremont.”
Pete squirmed in his recliner, rubbing his hands over the thighs of his soiled khakis.
“Nothing’s been decided,” Drummond assured the boy.
“Do you have many friends?” the social worker asked.
“No,” Pete said.
“No one you see on a regular basis?”
The boy reached for the crumpled pack of cigarettes in his shirt pocket and then picked up his rosary beads instead. The long chain trembled in his trembling hands, and his mouth made smacking noises, as though he were slopping down soup.
“When I talked to your father, he said you were in a day program several years ago. Did you enjoy that?”
“It was O.K.”
“Why did you stop going?”
“I think I’ll go outside.”
“No,” Drummond said. “Stay here and talk to the lady. She only has a few questions, and then we’re done.”
The copper cowbell above the shop door clattered, and the sheets of paper in the typewriters waved and rustled, giving off the slight, dry whisper of skittering leaves. Drummond half listened to the tapping keys and the ringing bells and the ratchet of the returning carriage until the cowbell clanged dully a second time as the customer left. In the ensuing quiet, the sound of his boy working the polished rosary beads between his rough, scaly fingers distracted Drummond from the social worker’s questions. The cowbell clapped a third time. A young mother was trying to ease a tandem carriage across the threshold without waking her twin babies. Drummond excused himself and went to help lift the front axle over the bump.
“My husband would love that,” the woman said. Mindful of her babies, she spoke in a soft voice. “What is it?”
“That’s a Remington Streamliner,” Drummond said.
“Do you mind if I give it a try?”
“No, go right ahead.”
He set the machine on a desk and held a chair for the woman. Perhaps the new world of computers had taught people timidity, schooling them in the possibility or threat of losing a thing irrevocably with the slightest touch. This woman’s hand pressed the “H” so tentatively that the type bar fell back with an exhausted plop before it reached the paper.
“Go ahead,” Drummond said. “Give it a good, clean stroke. You won’t hurt it. With a manual typewriter you want a little bounce. You can put your shoulders into it.”
“Now is the time for all good men now is the time,” the woman typed on the black lacquered machine, and when the bell rang out, happily ratifying what she’d written, she squealed and clapped her hands.
“This is the most beautiful typewriter I’ve ever seen,” she said. “It’s so—so noir! It’s got [REDACTED] written all over it.”
“It’s prewar,” Drummond said. “The Second World War, I mean. What’s your husband do?”
“He’s a lawyer,” the woman said. “But he’s got that midlife thing going on and wants to try his hand at screenplays. He’s got lots of stories from his days as a public defender. His birthday’s coming up, and I just know he’s going to be depressed.”
“Hold on,” Drummond said, walking back to his workbench. He pulled a photo off the wall.
“If your mind’s too great for you,” Pete was saying, “you should just let God take it. That’s what Christ did. He was brain-dead. He never thought on his own.”
“I’ve never heard that before,” the social worker said.
Drummond took the photograph and, somewhat chagrined at the wacky course the interview was taking, returned to the showroom. “That’s Raymond Chandler,” he said. Chandler wore large owlish glasses and sat with a pipe clenched between his teeth, in a bungalow on the Paramount lot. A sleek, gleaming Streamliner rested on his desk.
The woman ran a slender hand lovingly over the polished casing, as though it were the hood of a car. Drummond told her the price, expecting her to balk, but instead she gave the machine a pat, ticking her wedding band against the metal, and then brought out a checkbook, and paid for the machine, also purchasing extra ribbons, a bottle of White-Out, and a foam pad. “It’s just too perfect,” she said. The typewriter was added, like a third sleeping baby, to the carriage. Drummond helped the woman over the threshold again and watched her go. All the young mothers these days were so lovely in a casual, offhand way. Drummond still dressed like his father, who had always worn a shirt and tie under his smock, as though his job were on a par, in dignity and importance, with the work of a doctor.
Drummond returned to his son and the social worker.
“If I let God take my brain, I’d be laughing. I’d know where I was going.”
The woman wrote something on a clipboard, which was beginning to crawl with tiny, antlike words.
“Where would you be going?” she asked.
“I’d be going down.”
“Down?”
“I’m trying to figure my brain. What it wants me to do. I think to go down, but I can’t figure out what it’s good for. It’s too much for me.”
Pete’s lips smacked grotesquely, and he stood up. “I think I just want to be a son,” he said. “Not a god.” His elbow jerked involuntarily. “I have to go to the bathroom.”

The boy vanished into the back of the shop. Drummond turned to the social worker, whose long straight hair framed a lovely, plain face.
“Is that typical?” she asked. “That kind of talk?”
Drummond sat on his stool. “Yeah,” he said.
“And the dyskinesia?”
Drummond nodded—tardive dyskinesia. Half the words he needed to describe his son he couldn’t spell, and all of them sounded as fantastic and as far away as the Mesozoic monsters he had loved so much as a child. He remembered paging through “The Big Golden Book of Dinosaurs.” The illustrations were lurid, and the narrative encompassed the soupy advent and sad passing of an entire world. Now his boy was the incredible creature, and Drummond’s vocabulary had become lumbering and dinosauric, plodding with polysyllables.
When the boy returned, he announced that he’d looked in the bathroom mirror and couldn’t see any love in his eyes. Without saying goodbye to the social worker, he picked up his broken umbrella, tapping the chrome spike across the carpeted floor on his way outside to smoke.
“Are you a believer?” Drummond asked
“No,” the young woman said.
“He suffers,” Drummond said. “The suffering—”
The woman nodded. Drummond told her how the boy saw faces disintegrate before his eyes; the faces fell to pieces, then disappeared, leaving a hole. He told her how, in the early days of the illness, they’d taken the beloved family dog to the pound because it was talking to Pete and could read his mind and Pete was afraid the dog would tear him apart. Last week it was the shop radio, an old Philco that had been his father’s—they couldn’t listen anymore. When the announcers laughed, Pete thought they were laughing at him. They would say exactly what he was thinking, predicting his thoughts. Last week the boy was so afraid that he’d only walk backward in public, convinced that someone was following him. He stumbled in reverse up the steps of the bus, and walked backward down the aisle.
Drummond said, “It’s Friday, so, what—Wednesday night, I guess, he smelled burning flesh in the house. I always check on him before I go to bed, just to make sure he’s O.K.” He sighed. “When I went in that night, he had raw eggs all around his bed. So I thought it was time to call you.”
“You said your wife is gone?”
“I think so,” Drummond said. Even though he knew the interview was over, he let the matter drift because he was uncomfortable with sympathy. “If anything happened to me,” he said, “I don’t know—”
“That’s got to have you worried,” the woman said. She was very professional and understanding, and Drummond realized how little conversation he’d had since his wife left. The interview, though, was a botch. When the social worker mentioned a waiting list, halfheartedly, Drummond saw that his growing need for help was exactly the thing that disqualified him from getting help from this woman.
“These things don’t really bother me,” he said feebly. “Because—because I understand him, you see.”
Drummond taped a sign on the door and locked the shop. He and the boy walked to the drugstore in the rain. Pete twirled his ragged, useless umbrella over their heads.
“I decided against a halfway house,” Drummond said.
“You have to forsake me,” the boy said. “I see that eventually happening.”
“You don’t see, not if that’s what you think.”
“Maybe I just see better. I’m like a prophet. And you’re sort of unevolved.”
“O.K.,” Drummond said. “All right, maybe. I’m unevolved. Sure.”
They picked up a bottle of hand lotion, and Pete tried on a pair of glasses. The gold-rimmed frames sat cockeyed on his nose, and the left lens was stamped with the manufacturer’s name: Opti-Vision. Pete looked longingly at himself in the mirror, blinking his green eyes. Drummond wasn’t sure whether to dissuade him; from a distance the boy, bespectacled, looked oddly more balanced, his elusive, deranged face suddenly pulled into focus.
“You don’t really need glasses,” Drummond said.
“I do.”
“Your eyes were fine last time we had them checked.”
Pete said he wanted these glasses, these, with the gold frames, so that people would see the love. In the end, it was only another of the seemingly endless list of lunatic errands Drummond had grown accustomed to, and he gave up, and paid for the glasses. They stepped next door and bought their usual lunch of doughnuts, of crullers and old-fashioneds, from the Greek. Drummond was still wary of the Greek, since the day, several months ago, when he’d asked Pete, rather loudly and obviously playing to an audience, if he wanted the psycho special. Drummond had been standing right beside Pete, but the Greek hadn’t realized they were together. Pete’s illness chipped away at the family resemblance, and people often took them for strangers. The Greek had apologized, and Pete had forgotten the incident—if, indeed, he’d ever noticed it—but the day lingered in Drummond’s mind, a slight defensive hitch, every time he walked through the door of Dunkin’ Donuts.
“I love [REDACTED],” Pete said, as they started back to the shop. He held the tattered umbrella in one hand and the white sack of doughnuts in the other. “I think [REDACTED]’s one of the most happening places on the face of the globe at this point in time. I’ve never met so many movie stars—this is where it’s at. Literally, one of the hot spots of the nation is [REDACTED], [REDACTED]” He looked at his father through the rain-beaded, fogged lenses of his new glasses, which hung askew on the tip of his nose. “Just the other day, I ran into John Denver in the street. I said, ‘Oh, John, I’m writing an album and mailing it to you. It’s called “Donuts.” ‘ “
Drummond let the conversation blow away in the rain. He hooked his arm through his son’s and hurried him on, but Pete shrugged him off. People glanced sideways at the two men as they made their strange way down Second Avenue. The boy’s umbrella was a blasted tangle of snapping fabric and flailing spokes. Drummond’s smock flew out behind him. He lowered his head against the wind and the rain and the faces. His fondest boyhood memories were of walking down this same street with his father, strolling and waving, as if the elder Drummond were the mayor of the avenue. Now his father was dead and he was the father, and this was his son.
“I love finding stuff in the street. Like this umbrella . . .” The boy lurched along, planting each foot directly in front of the other. “I went to a sculpture show. That’s what the umbrella’s all about. It didn’t occur to me until I was walking up the street and it broke. I knew it was going to break, but I didn’t know what I would do with it after. Then I thought, A sculpture. Of course. A sculpture. What else? I call it ‘Salvador.’ After Salvador Allende, the city Salvador, and Salvador Dalí. It’s a triumvirate piece of sculpture. Covering all three bases.”
About a block from the shop, as they were crossing Bell Street, the boy knelt down in the intersection. He took up a storybook prayer posture, bent on both knees, his hands folded together in the shape of a candle flame and his head solemnly bowed with his lips touching the tips of his fingers. The sack of doughnuts split open in the rain, and the umbrella skittered away in the wind. People paused to look down at the odd penitent praying in the crosswalk. Drummond saw a shiny patch on the asphalt turn from red to green, and then a few cars drove around, slowly. On either side of the crosswalk, a waiting crowd of pedestrians jostled one another at the curb for a view, and Drummond had a familiar, passing urge to explain. It seemed the boy would never get up, but then suddenly he made the sign of the cross, rose, and resumed walking, contemplatively, toward the shop.

They had not made much progress when the boy again fell to the sidewalk, again crossing himself and praying, the whole thing repeated like a liturgical rite, as if the boy were kneeling for the Stations. A moment of prayer, the stream of people parting, the stares so blank they seemed to Drummond like pity or hatred. Then the boy rose and picked his way cautiously along a fixed, narrow path and then dropped again to the sidewalk, like a supplicant. Drummond knelt down with his son, and implored him to get up. The boy’s glasses were gone, and his thin, oily hair was pasted flat on his scalp. Drummond’s long smock, saturated, clung darkly to his back. Pete rose again and put his foot down on a seam in the concrete and followed the cracked path and again began praying. Women in the beauty salon next to the shop watched at the window as Drummond knelt beside his son in the rain. He tried to hoist him up by his armpits, but the boy was a heavy deadweight. He lugged him across the sidewalk, heaving him a few feet at a time, until they made it safely to the shop door.
Inside, Drummond snipped the twine on a new bundle of shop rags and began drying the boy off. He wiped his hair and ran the rag down his neck. He unbuttoned his shirt and towelled off his arms and chest, surprised, as always, to see the boy so hirsute. Drummond used to bathe him as an infant in the kitchen sink. He remembered the yellow curtains [REDACTED] had sewn, and the steamed window and the sill with the glossy green leaves of potted ivy. Drummond tried to bring back the feeling of those early winter twilights at the sink, he and the boy reflected in the window. He piled the wet rags, one after another, on the workbench, and when the boy was dry he said, “We’re going to close up.”
Pete nodded.
“Today’s not working out,” Drummond said. “Some days don’t.”
“My glasses,” the boy said.
“O.K.,” Drummond said. “O.K.” He sat the boy in the recliner and went out to the sidewalk. Someone had stepped on the glasses. Drummond stared, mystified, at the empty gold frames glinting in the rain. The lenses had popped out. Back at his workbench, he tweaked the bridge of the glasses until it returned to its symmetrical curve and then he gently pressured the right earpiece down so that it was again parallel with the left. He ran a bead of glue around the frames and inserted the lenses, wiping them clean with a cloth diaper. “That’ll do you,” he said, handing them to Pete. Drummond pulled out a pocket comb and neatly parted the boy’s thinning hair and swept it back from his face. When the boy looked up at his father, faint stars of fluorescent light reflected off the glasses.
“Do your job now,” he said.
“I think I’ll go outside,” the boy said.
“Please,” Drummond said under his breath. “Do your job first.”
Pete began pulling the old paper from the typewriters. He stacked the sheets in a pile, squaring the edges with a couple of sharp taps against the counter. Then he fed blank sheets of paper into the platens, returned the carriages, and hit the tab buttons for the proper indentations, ready for a new paragraph, ready for the next day.
Drummond was nearly done with the Olivetti. He found the nameplate he needed—”Olivetti Lettera 32″—and glued it in place. He squeezed a daub of car wax on the cloth diaper and wiped down the case, drawing lustre out of the old enamel. He called the bookstore and told the kid that he was closing shop but his typewriter was ready.
While Drummond waited, he straightened up his workbench. The blank letter to his wife lay there. He crumpled the empty sheet and tossed it into the wastebasket.
When the kid came over, he could hardly believe it was the same machine. He typed the words everyone typed: “now is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their—”
“Is it ‘country’ or ‘party’?” he asked.
“I see it both ways,” Drummond said.
He wrote up a sales slip while the kid tapped the keys a couple of times more and looked down doubtfully at the machine. There was something off in its rightness and precision, an old and familiar antagonism gone, a testiness his fingers wanted to feel. He missed the adversity of typing across a platen pitted like a minefield, the resistance of the querulous keys that would bunch and clog. Drummond had seen this before. The kid wasn’t ready to say it yet, but half of him wanted the jalopy touch of his broken Olivetti back.
“It’s different,” he said.
“What’s the plot of your novel?” Drummond said.
“It’s hard to explain,” the kid said.
“Well, is it sci-fi?” he asked. “Romance? Detective thriller?”
Somewhat snobbily, the kid said, “It doesn’t really fit any of those categories.”
Drummond said, “Take the machine back and monkey with it. See how it feels. Give yourself some time to get used to it.”
“I don’t know,” the kid said.
“Look,” Drummond said. “I kept all the old parts. I could restore it back to broken in ten minutes. Or if you don’t like the way it works just throw it on the floor a few times. But first give it a fair chance.”
He pushed the handwritten bill across the counter.
“Can I pay you tomorrow? It’s been a slow day.”
“Sure,” Drummond said. “Tomorrow.”
Drummond and the boy boarded the bus and took their usual seats on the bench in back. Drummond wore an old snap-brim hat with a red feather in the band and a beige overcoat belted at the waist. He pulled a packet of salted nuts from the pocket, sharing them with the boy as the bus made its way slowly through the rush hour. His wife had taken their old green Fiat wagon, and Drummond sometimes wondered if he was supposed to feel foolish, letting her keep it. But he didn’t really mind riding the bus, and during the past few months he and the boy had settled into a routine. They ate a snack and read what people had written during the day, and then, crossing the West [REDACTED] bridge, the boy would time the trip home, praying and telling the decades of his rosary.
“You want some?” Drummond asked, holding out the small red box of raisins the boy liked. The boy shook his head indifferently, and Drummond slipped the box back into his pocket.
The boy pulled out of his pockets the sheets of paper he’d taken from the typewriters. For the most part the sentences were nonsensical, the random crashing of keys, or the repetitive phrases people remembered from typing classes. But some were more interesting, when people typed tantalizing bits of autobiography or quoted a passage of meaningful philosophy.
The boy slumped against the window and shuffled through the fluttering sheets, while Drummond, looking over his shoulder, followed along.
“Now is the time for all good men.”

“The quick brown fox jumped over.”
“God is Dead.”
“zrtiENsoina;ldu?/ng;’a!”
“Tony chief Tony Tony.”
“Now is the time now.”
“Jaclyn was here.”
“???????????!!!!!!!”
“That interview didn’t work out so great,” Drummond said. The bus rose, crossing over the Duwamish River. A ferry on the sound, its windows as bright as ingots of gold, seemed to be carting a load of light out of the city, making for the dark headlands of Bainbridge Island. Drummond wondered if the boy would like a boat ride tomorrow, or maybe even to go fishing. His father had kept his tackle as meticulously as he had kept his typewriters, and it was still stored with his cane rod in the hall closet. After a trip to Westport or a day on the sound, his father had sharpened his barbs with a hand file and dried and waxed the spoons and aught-six treble hooks until they shone as brightly as silverware. Nobody Drummond had ever known did that. Even now, a year after the old man’s death, his gear showed no sign of rusting.
Drummond opened the bottle of lotion and squeezed a dollop into his palm. The lotion was cold, and he massaged it between his hands until it warmed to the touch.
“Give me your hand,” he said to the boy.
He rubbed the boy’s hands, smoothing the dry, dead skin between his fingers, feeling the flaking scales soften between his own hands.
“Your birthday’s Monday,” Drummond said.
Pete laughed.
“Any idea what you’d like?”
“No,” the boy said.
[REDACTED] would probably call home on Pete’s birthday. She’d always been good that way, calling or writing nice thank-you notes to people. For months Drummond had expected his wife to have a realization, although he was never sure what she’d realize. When they had eloped during his senior year—her sophomore—she was six months pregnant and beginning to show. She had never had a real honeymoon or even, she had told him bitterly, a real life. The boy had been a tremendous, bewildering amount of work for a girl of sixteen. Drummond supposed that at forty-one she was still a young woman. Now that she was gone, he found most of his social life at church. He was in charge of the coffee urn, and picked up pastries from a bakery on California Avenue whose owner was an old crony of his father’s. He enjoyed the hour of fellowship after Mass, mingling with people he’d known all his life, people in whose aging faces he still recognized the shortstop from Catholic Youth ball or the remnant of a former May Day queen’s smile. There was one particular lady he thought he might consider asking out on a possible date when the time was right.
The rain falling against the roof of the bus and the warm amber light inside were familiar. Drummond capped the lotion and put the bottle away. He checked his watch. He wanted to stop by the corner store before it closed; he needed to pick up a frozen pizza and some pop and ice cream for dinner. As the bus wound around Alki Point, he looked again at his watch, a Hamilton pocket model, railroad grade, which he wore on a silver fob slipped through his belt. Resting in his palm, it had that satisfying heft well-made things often have, the weight falling just right. It had been his father’s, and before that had belonged to his grandfather, an engineer for the old Great Northern. They’d never had to change the initials on the case, and the center wheel traveled four thousand miles, round and round, in the course of a year. His grandfather had told him that and now Drummond often saw the image of the elderly frail man as he wound the stem in the morning.
“Tomorrow’s Saturday,” he said. “I’ve got some catching up to do.
“But Monday,” he said, “I’ll take the day off. How’d you like that? We’ll do something, just me and you.
“You’ll be twenty-five years old.
“Twenty-five years,” he said.
Almost by way of acknowledgment, the boy nudged his glasses up the bridge of his nose. Drummond took off his old snap-brim hat and fitted it on the boy’s head. His face, reflected in the yellow glass, had already faded into its cryptic and strange cloister. His heavy purple lips were shaping the words to a prayer, and the rosary was ticking in his lap as the maroon beads, one by one, slipped through his fingers.
“I love you,” Drummond said, expecting the boy to laugh, but he only rested his head against the seat and looked out the window at the gray city going by. 

