FICTION  SAFETY  PROCEDURES  Lorrie  didn't  want  me  to  go  and  was  embarrassed  to  come  out  with  it.  My  work  means  that  we  have  lived  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  and  in  each  there  has  always  been  something  to  be  afraid  of.  Gangsters;  extremist  political  groups,  right  and  left,  toss-  ing  bombs  into  restaurants;  hijacks;  holdups;  a  city  sitting  plumb  on  the  line  of  an  earthquake  fault.  We  have  long  had  a  compact,  with  ourselves,  with  life.  Life  is  dangerous.  We  live  with  that,  and  with  one  certainty:  that  fear  is  the  real  killer.  We've  never  gone  in  for  steel  grilles  on  our  doors  or  been  afraid  to  walk  in  the  streets.  With  sen-  sible  precautions,  we've  succeeded  in  keeping  our  children  free.  But  these  last  few  months  there  have  been  a  number  of  airline  disasters  not  really  accounted  for-pilot  error,  air-traffic  control  affected  by  ground-staff  strikes,  the  possibility  of  a  fellow-passenger  with  the  Damocles  weapon  not  over-  head  but  down  in  his  boot  soles.  Who  has  the  black  box  that  really  knows?  And,  only  a  week  ago,  two  people  shot  dead  while  queuing  to  check  in  at  an  airline  desk.  We  usually  make  love  the  night  before  I  leave,  I  kiss  the  children  in  the  morning,  and  we  all  accept  nat-  urally  that  I'll  phone  the  moment  I  can  use  my  mobile  in  the  terminal  of  my  arrival-even  if  it's  nighttime  for  Lor-  rie  and  daytime  for  me.  It's  as  much  a  routine  as  going  to  the  executive  office  of  my  company  every  day.  -Why'd  you  let  Isa  book  you  on  that  route?  Lorrie  knows  that  my  secretary  organizes  my  schedules  with  perfect  efficiency.  -Why  not?  It's  obvious.  It's  the  best  airline  to  get  me  where  I  have  to  go.  -But  the  country  it  belongs  to.  In  some  conflict  among  them  all  .  ..  These  days.  -For  God's  sake,  you  know  what  78  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  23,  2002  BY  NADINE  GORDIMER  the  security  procedures  are  like  &amp;ese  days.  Anyway,  that  airline's  country  has  no  connection  to  any  hassle  between  496e646961  and  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  and  Pales-  tine-whatever.  Since  when  have  we  given  into  fear  of  flying,  my  darling?-  Quoting,  if  I  remember  correctly,  the  title  of  a  book  we  once  read.  -No  connection  that  you-we-  know  of.  But  she'd  heard  what  I  was  really  saying:  since  when  do  we  have  a  boring,  conventional  little-wifey  scene  when  the  hubby  goes  off  on  business?  Since  when  do  we  cower,  you  and  I,  before  life  as  it  is?  And  then  she  said  something,  in  that  way  shehas  (part  of  what  I  love  about  her),  that  struck  aside  my  patron-  izing  inference  of  little-wifeyness.  -You  don't  know  whose  enemy  you  are.  -What're  you  talking  about?  I'm  nobody's  enemy.  -By  boarding  aplane  you  become  one.  The  airline's  insignia  is  painted  on  the  tail.  Logo  of  nationality.  I  hugged  her  quickly,  in  recognition  of  her  special  quirky  intelligence,  and  laughed.  Our  closeness  made  her  smile  past  the  issue.  No  fuss.  That's  our  way.  The  company  driver  picked  me  up  and  delivered  me  to  the  airport.  ood  young  Isa  had  reserved  my  favorite  seat,  a  window,  not  too  far  back  in  the  business-class  cabin  (the  company  has  decided  to  be  globally  po-  litically  correct,  no  more  wasteful  first-  class  expenditure),  but  not  nearthe  toi-  lets  or  the  galley-too  many  people  queuing  up  to  pee  and  too  much  chatter  among  the  attendants.  There  was  a  long  flight  ahead  with  time  sliding  backward  all  the  way.  On  these  journeys  I  keep  home  time;  I  don't  change  my  watch  until  I  reach  time  as  measured  at  my  destination.  I  wonder  how  many  hours  of  my  life  span  I've  lost-or  maybe  gained?-on  these  many  trips  across  datelines.  I  tell  people  that  I  actually  like  to  work  in  planes.  In  productive  isola-  tion  among  strangers,  I  can  take  out  my  laptop  and  prepare  myself  for  the  meetings  and  decisions  awaiting  me.  It's  not  often  that  there's  someone  I  know  on  the  same  flight,  and  if  there  is  I  don't  want  any  change  of  seat  to  place  me  beside  an  acquaintance.  Of  course,  in  recent  years  there  has  been  the  unavoidable  distraction  of  the  fold-  out  TV  screen  that  comes  with  every  seat,  and  invariably  my  anonymous  neighbor  will  have  the  thing  set  up  and  flickering  away  in  my  periph-  eral  vision,  although,  thank  God,  the  sound  passes  directly  into  the  individ-  ual's  ears,  spares  mine.  The  fact  is  it's  never  long  before  I  pack  away  the  mon-  itor  of  my  industriousness,  the  laptop,  wrestle  a  few  minutes  with  the  pages  of  the  newspapers  offered  (why  aren't  there  special  tabloid  editions  of  the  New  York  Times,  the  Herald  Tribune,  Le  Figaro,  Frankfurter  Allgemeine,  Cor-  riere  della  Sera,  et  al.,  for  airline  dis-  tribution?),  and  then  look-gaze-at  what's  outside  the  window:  nothing.  All  right.  The  void  that,  from  the  ground,  is  called  &quot;the  sky.&quot;  Intruded  on  by  puffy  herds  and  castles  of  cloud  for  a  while,  scribbled  across  with  a  fading  jet  stream,  a  chalked  rainbow  drawn  by  another  plane,  out  of  sight.  At  other  times,  an  enclosing  gray-  white  element  without  latitude  or  lon-  gitude  or  substance-like  blindness  de-  scended  upon  the  eyes.  Perhaps  what  I'm  saying  is  that  I  half  doze  off;  there's  an  in-between  form  of  consciousness  that's  experienced  only  up  here.  The  cozy  cockpit  voice  exhorts  its  charges  to  sit  back  and  relax.  But  this  state  is  not  relaxation;  it's  another  form  of  being  I  have,  and  have  never  told  any-  one  about,  not  even  Lorrie  (especially,  perhaps,  not  Lorrie-in  a  marriage  it's     possible  to  give  too  much  about  your-  self  away).  Nothing.  Up  there,  out  there,  I  do  not  have  within  me  love,  sex,  wife,  chil-  dren,  house,  or  executive  office.  I  do  not  have  a  waiting  foreign  city  with  inter-  national  principals  and  decisions  to  be  made.  Why  has  no  artist-not  even  the  abstractionists-painted  this  state,  at-  tainable  only  since  the  invention  of  pas-  senger  aircraft?  The  gaze.  Freedom.  On  this  trip,  I  had  beside  me-I  no-  ticed  only  when  the  bar  trolley  paused  9  at  my  row  -a  slim  middle-aged  woman  &gt;  who  didn't  overflow  her  space  or  hog  the  armrest  between  us,  something,  at  least,  in  her  favor.  We  exchanged  a  &quot;Good  evening,&quot;  and  that  was  that.  She  OKIYN  TRIO  1&quot;  {}{DETAIL},  THREE  PANELS,  89&quot;  X  18&quot;,  2000  Z  I  0  bra  8  &lt;  o  was  good-looking  (as  she  turned  to-  ward  me  in  the  brief  greeting)  in  an  impersonal  way,  without  any  projection  of  beauty,  as  if  her  fiftyish  face  were  something  she  had  assumed  as  you  might  take  along  an  umbrella.  I  dread,  on  my  numerous  long  flights,  having  someone  in  the  next  seat  who  wants  to  talk  and  will  take  up  a  monologue  if  I  don't  respond.  This  one,  apparently,  wanted  conversation  no  more  than  I  did.  She  didn't  set  up  her  TV  screen,  ei-  ther.  I  was  aware  that  after  dinner  was  served  she  leaned  forward  and  took  a  book  from  her  bag.  I  suppose  it  was  the  food,  the  wine.  I  returned  to  my  laptop,  to  the  presence  within  me  of  the  voice  and  body  of  my  wife,  the  hands  of  my  children  upon  me,  the  boardroom,  the  familiar  ex-  pressions  of  the  faces,  and  the  issues  I  was  to  meet.  Nothing,  replaced  by  to-  morrow.  As  I  worked  at  my  computer  and  time  was  lost  in  passage,  the  air-  craft  began  to  shudder.  The  seat-belt  sign  was  illuminated.  Turbulence-  we  expect  to  climb  out  of  it,  the  cock-  pit  voice  reassured  us.  But  my  window  went  black-it  was  not  nightfall-  the  swollen  black  of  a  great  forest  of  storm.  Out  of  nothing:  this  was  the  other  power,  like  the  opposition  of  Evil  to  Good  that  religions  tell  us  about  on  earth.  I  was  determined  to  ignore  what  became  the  swooping  and  stagger-  ing  of  the  plane,  the  teeth-chattering   ofoverhead  lockers,  the  collision  of  trolleys,  the  spilling  of  glasses.  I  tried  to  focus  on  the  screen  jiggling  on  my  knees,  but  my  eyes  refused  to  function.  As  I  managed  to  stow  the  laptop  in  a  seat  pocket,  I  saw  that  the  woman  be-  side  me  had  put  down  her  book.  In  a  violent  lurch  of  the  enraged  structure  that  encased  us,  the  book  flung  itself  from  her  lap  to  the  floor.  I  watched  it  slither  into  the  aisle,  where  it  was  joined  by  shoes  that  someone  had  taken  off,  as  we  do  on  long  flights,  for  comfort.  Now  the  cockpit  voice  commanded  us  to  stay  seated,  to  make  sure  our  seat  belts  were  securely  fastened.  For  your  own  safety.  I'd  weathered  (that  old  cliché)  a  few  spells  of  turbulence  in  the  hun-  dreds  of  flights  I'd  survived.  There  had  never  in  my  memory  been  anything  like  this.  Lorrie  feared  for  me:  a  hijack.  This  was  a  hijack  by  the  elements.  Whatever  force  had  us  would  not  let  go,  no  escape  by  gaining  height  or  losing  it.  Crashes  were  sounding  from  the  galley.  Two  cabin  attendants  collided,  and  one  fell  across  a  passenger's  head.  The  com-  mands  from  the  cockpit  became  a  gab-  ble.  Behind  the  seats  where  the  woman  and  I  were  strapped,  trapped,  someone  was  vomiting  in  heaving  waves  and  gur-  glings.  The  plane  dropped  as  if  under  a  great  blow  and  then  bounced  to  this  side  and  that.  It  wanted  to  rid  itself  of  us,  our  laptops,  our  headsets,  our  duty-  free,  the  bags  of  possessions  we  lug  around  the  world  as  if  our  life  depended  upon  them.  Our  life.  The  voice  from  the  cockpit  made  it-  self  heard  through  broken-up  amplifi-  cation:  the  captain  was  going  to  attempt  an  emergency  landing  at  a  military  air-  field  whose  name  I  recognized  as  a  sign  that  we  had  been  blown  off  course.  A  woman  was  screaming.  There  were  sobs  and  voices  calling  out  for  help-from  whom,  from  where?  Praying-to  whom,  for  what?  My  heart  thudded  wildly:  Lorrie's  fear  now  mine.  I  suddenly  realized  that  while  ev-  eryone  was  appealing,  in  the  solidarity  of  terror,  to  everyone  else,  the  woman  beside  me  and  I  had  not  looked  at  each  other,  had  not  spoken.  So  I  turned  to  her.  Incredible.  She  was  sitting  calmly,  with  one  hand  loose  upon  the  other,  not  clutch,  ing-the  seat,  the  armrests,  anything-  as  I  was.  She  was  letting  the  fury  of  the  plane  slap  her  about,  her  lips  at  rest,  no  grimace  of  the  animal  fear  that  was  on  everyone's  face.  She  flicked  her  quiet  open  eyes  to  acknowledge  my  presence,  this  unknown  human  who  was  going  to  die  in  intimacy  beside  me.  My  last  woman.  And  then  she  turned  directly  to  me,  and  I  heard  again  the  voice  that  had  spoken  only  once,  two  words,  &quot;Good  evening.&quot;  -It's  all  right.  The  plane  will  some-  how  land.  You're  safe.  Everyone  is.  I  didn't  know  if  she  was  unbelievably  courageous,  duped  by  some  religious  faith,  or  mad.  She  spoke  again,  her  head  resisting  the  tumultuous  pulls  against  her  body.  -It  won't  happen.  Because  I'm  aboard.  This  last  year,  I  have  to  tell  you,  I  have  tried  three  times,  three  different  ways,  to  end  my  life.  Failed.  No  way  out  for  me.  So  it  seems  I  can't  die-no  flight  I  take  he  order  came  from  the  cockpit  to  assume  the  emergency-landing  position,  heads  bowed  over  knees.  The  plane  struck  the  earth  as  if  it  would  crack  the  rock  of  the  world.  We  descended  in  a  fairly  orderly  way-those  desperate  to  live  pushingthrough  women-and-  children-first,  I  restraining  the  instinct-  on  slides  let  down  from  the  sides  of  the  plane.  Banners  of  flame  unfurled  be-  hind  us  as  we  ran.  In  the  confusion  I  did  not  see  whether  the  woman  was  among  us,  the  saved,  all  of  us.  I'm  sure  she  was.   