BODIES
By Jessica Shattuck
In the fluorescent light of the refrigerator, the halved parsnips look naked—pale and fleshy as limbs. Annie pauses before pulling them out. A refrigerator is like a hospital, a bright place that is not cheerful. A protective but uncertain place to wait.
“What are you doing?” Anthony says. He’s standing in the doorway.
“Starting dinner,” Annie says, flicking on the lights. They both blink in the sudden brilliance.
Anthony climbs up onto one of the tall stools on the other side of the kitchen island. He is five years old, blond, and freckled, with close-set blue eyes. Something about his mouth and his stubby but prominent little nose hints already at the old man he will be—stubborn, soft-spoken, a little unforgiving.
The music of “The Lion King” drifts toward them from the playroom.
“Not in the mood for the movie?” Annie asks.
Anthony shrugs and lays his head down on his outstretched arm.
Annie dabs small pieces of butter on the parsnips, draining water from the dish. Outside the window, twenty stories below, there is a bright stream of traffic on [REDACTED]. Beyond that, Central [REDACTED] is black—lit paths twist through it like constellations. She rinses beans, wraps bread in aluminum foil, rubs garlic and pepper on steaks, washes the pretty purple-and-white salad leaves whose name she can never remember. She and Anthony are comfortable with silence. When she first moved in with his family, he made her nervous. He is an intense child, with a sharp, scrutinizing gaze, and his frankness can be almost cruel. Annie tried to protect herself with chatter, elaborately inventive games, even bribes. But they are friends now. She feels more at home around Anthony than around anyone else she knows.
“Will you read to me?” Anthony asks after the steaks are in the broiler and the beans are steaming on the stove.
Annie looks at the clock. “For five minutes,” she says.
“Yes, yes, yes,” he chants, sitting up straight now.
Annie is in what her doctor refers to as the “hunker down and wait” period of treatment for Stage III Hodgkin’s lymphoma. For the most part, she has been lucky. She has gone through ten remarkably smooth cycles of chemotherapy; the success has yet to be determined, but the side effects have been mild. Her straight, pale-brown hair is thinner, but she still has it. Though she needs at least twelve hours of sleep a day, she is not constantly exhausted. She takes her pills every morning—vitamins, herbs a Chinese doctor prescribed, green algae. She eats kale and radishes and drinks a full gallon and a half of water a day. She lives like someone who has built a home on the San Andreas Fault: she takes what small, possibly ridiculous precautions she can, and then chooses not to think about it.
Until November, Annie worked as a secretary for Anthony’s mother, Cleo. Cleo is the creative director of a large international advertising agency—the first woman in the company’s history to have this role. She is tall and levelheaded and big-boned, but glamorous. She works fifteen hours a day, and most weekends as well. She is an adept psychoanalyst of the public mind. “That’ll make people think of getting old. People don’t want to think of getting old,” she’ll say about a mockup of an ad for a real-estate Web site. Suddenly everyone will realize that the little boy bouncing his ball down the walk into his grandmother’s garden reminds them of their lost childhoods—of time passing, of old dreams, and of dying. Cleo will substitute a girl for the boy, an older brother for the grandmother, and it will become an entirely different story. Annie would like to crawl into Cleo’s confidence and curl up in her powerful vision of the world as an infinitely malleable, manageable place.
Annie’s own days at the agency have been put on indefinite hold, and she misses them—the feeling of purpose and efficiency. Now she lives with Cleo and her family in their penthouse on [REDACTED], which has lots of extra room. It is a perfect arrangement, really; Annie did not have many people she could move in with when she got sick. There was her high-school sweetheart, who is now her ex-husband, in [REDACTED], and her brother, Todd, in Long Beach. But the last time she saw Todd he locked her in the closet and broke a bottle against the door. And her ex-husband has found God.
Besides, Cleo and her husband, Jay, need someone in addition to their baby-sitter to look after their two children. Mrs. Tibbs, they worry, will teach the children bad grammar and imperfect diction. Now Annie reads them stories and plays interesting, educational games, and is careful to choose her words exactly, hold on to silent “g” ’s, never say “gonna” or use “real” as an adjective. She is used to this from the office—the only difference is that it is no longer a work-related necessity but something she has to do at home, because that is what Cleo and Jay’s apartment has become.
Annie has made it to page 5 of “Goodnight Moon,” Anthony’s favorite book, when the doorbell rings. “No,” Anthony says, putting his hand on her hip as she starts to get up. “No.” He is clingy and uncertain in the evenings.
“I have to get the door,” Annie says gently. “It might be important.”
But it is Cleo’s niece Michele, who lives with her mother, Cleo’s sister, two buildings down.
“Hi,” Michele says with a bright, insincere smile. “Is Cleo home yet?” She peers over Annie’s shoulder into the apartment as if Annie might not be trusted to tell the truth. Michele’s mother drifts in and out of rehab programs, and Cleo worries about her niece. She is a beautiful girl: blond, long-legged, with perfectly straight, well-proportioned features. Tonight she is wearing a short, hot-pink skirt and impossibly high platform heels. Around Michele, Annie feels dumpy, prudish, and overwhelmingly average—average height (five feet five), average prettiness (small nose, brown eyes, and pale skin), average age (thirty-two), and average-sized breasts (34B). She remembers that she has not showered in two days, that her sweater is pilly, that her jeans are baggy at the knees.
“Not yet,” she says. “Would you like to come in and wait for her?”
“Story!” Anthony demands from the couch.
Annie hopes Michele will say no.
“I can’t,” Michele says. “I’m on my way downtown, but I wanted to give her this.” She holds out a thick silver-paper envelope with writing in metallic gold. “My sweet-sixteen party. At Au Bar,” she adds, unable to restrain herself.
“Ooh,” Annie says, “that’ll be nice,” hoping this is an appropriate response. But it sounds fraudulent, schoolteacher-ish. “I’ll give it to her.”
“Thanks,” Michele breathes, and flashes another studied smile. “Say hi to Jay.”
Annie closes the door behind her and walks back over to Anthony.
“O.K.,” she says, settling onto the sofa. “Where were we?”
“Here,” Anthony says, squirming closer, collapsing against her as soon as she leans back. She is thankful for his helplessness.
Since it is Thursday night, they are all eating together. This is Cleo’s rule. Sundays and Thursdays, they dine at seven so that Anthony and his baby sister, Eden, can join them and afterward Cleo can put them to bed. On other nights, Cleo and Jay eat late, or have dinner engagements, or, often, Cleo is out of town. Tonight, Cleo has brought pink and orange dahlias home from the florist on Madison, which Annie has arranged in the center of the table. In the candlelight, they project pointed orange shadows onto the walls.

“What did you do, invite Alain Ducasse over to cook?” Jay says, surveying the food. “This looks fantastic.” Jay is tall and in his early forties. He is technically good-looking, but there is something about him that seems still unformed, as if he had never, for even a moment, experienced pain.
“Abble, abble, abble, abble,” Eden chants from her high chair. Saliva runs down her lower lip.
“Did you work out with Mel today?” Cleo asks Jay, wiping Eden’s chin with her napkin. Mel is Jay’s trainer. “I thought that was Monday, Wednesday, Friday.”
“Bumped it up—Thursdays, too,” Jay says, helping himself to a steak. Jay sold his Internet company for “a bundle,” as he likes to say, before the market went bust, and since then he has devoted himself to “independent projects,” which originally consisted of learning to play the guitar, writing a how-to (in his case, how to sell your startup company for millions) book, and getting in shape. Now his projects consist entirely of getting in shape—kick-boxing class, weight lifting, training for the [REDACTED] marathon. In the four months since Annie moved in with them, he has gone way past “in shape.” His muscles, which are by nature invisible, have become hard and round and move like an animal’s beneath his skin. He can bench-press two hundred and thirty pounds and run to the tip of [REDACTED] and back in an hour and twenty minutes.
“Four times a week?” Cleo asks, her eyebrows raised.
“What’s that supposed to mean?” Jay demands.
“Nothing,” Cleo says. “Did you have a chance to call the Hornbys?”
Cleo is so smooth. Jay will have to run after this question now. He is volatile, but easily distracted. Annie has seen him agitated, cranky, even nasty a few times, but she has never seen Cleo so much as ruffled.
“They’re coming on Saturday.” Jay turns to Anthony and tousles his hair. “With Davey-boy, so you’ll have a friend, too.”
“I don’t like him,” Anthony says, slumping back in his chair.
“But he’s your buddy,” Jay says with a mixture of surprise and disappointment. “He’s a good guy.”
“Why not?” Cleo asks at the same time.
Anthony grunts and kicks the table leg. Annie has begun to notice that he is different with Cleo. Less communicative. More petulant. Gently, Annie stills his leg under the table.
“Na, na, na, na,” Eden begins chanting. She has been released from her high chair and is crawling around under the table. Then she sits down and begins sucking on the remote control of Jay’s new stereo.
“She loves to put things in her mouth,” Annie says, removing the remote control gently from Eden’s grasp.
“Well!” Jay says, standing up. “Just like your mother, aren’t you?” He laughs and wiggles one of Eden’s fat toes.
“Could you get the salt while you’re up?” Cleo asks, with no hint that she has heard.
Annie suspects that Cleo and Jay have a wild and theatrical sex life. There is all of Jay’s working out. There are his crass jokes. There is the way he smells when he comes into the kitchen for breakfast before showering. But these are merely complements of something Annie sees in Cleo. She is too confident, too invulnerable to be seductive. But when she is relaxed, when she and Jay come in from an evening out at a benefit, or a day of sailing on the Sound, there is something raw about her—a loose, substantial physicality that reminds Annie of a high-school athlete. It is slightly masculine. Unabashedly sexual.
The first time Annie thought about this, an image of Cleo, bent over, her brown hair trailing on the floor, popped into her mind. She was being fucked from behind. She was wearing a bustier and garters, and her wide pale feet with their unpainted toenails looked inanimate. The image was so vivid that Annie almost can’t remember whether she has actually seen it. She imagines that Cleo likes frilly nighties in little-girl colors. That Jay, with his newly built body, comes out of the bathroom shirtless, in black briefs. That Cleo is coy, that Jay will do anything to get a blow job—David Hasselhoff impersonations, handsprings, a wrestling move in which he pins Cleo roughly against the headboard. It is both comical and dangerous. And Annie is shocked at how readily it springs into her imagination.
“Stop doing dishes,” Cleo says, coming into the kitchen from the children’s room. “Mrs. Tibbs will do those in the morning. You have better things to do.”
“I like doing dishes,” Annie says.
“Anthony would like you to go in and give him a kiss goodnight.”
Annie tries to interpret Cleo’s voice. Lately, when Cleo wants to read Anthony a story, he says no, he’d rather have Annie. Cleo turns it into a joke—you’re a more fun mommy than I am, she says. But here, alone in the kitchen, Annie feels tension spring up between them like a wire. It makes Annie nervous; beneath Cleo’s unflappable exterior, Annie has noticed lately, she has a capacity for cruelty.
“O.K.” Annie wipes her hand on the dish towel and adds, “I feel a little woozy,” which she does not, as if somehow this could make things equal.
Anthony’s bedroom is at the far end of the apartment, across the darkened living room with its glass doors that lead out to a roof garden and the hollow rush of the city. Anthony is lying on his back, staring at the glow-in-the-dark stars Jay arranged on the ceiling in the shape of a baseball. “I knew you’d come,” he says, turning onto his side as soon as she opens the door.
“Well, you asked for me, right?” Annie says gently. She sits down on the edge of his bed and can feel his legs, warm under the covers, pushing against her back.
“It’s too dark,” he says. “I want to sleep with the light on.”
“Why?” Annie says. “Darkness is good. It’s nothing to be afraid of.”
“I’m not afraid,” he says rolling onto his back. His voice has an anxious hitch to it, though.
“That’s good.”
“What is ‘afraid’?” Anthony asks.
All around her the room is full of indistinguishable objects and flickering shadows from the roof garden—living things blowing, husk-like, in the March wind. A siren howls from below, muffled by the distance it has to travel.
“Annie?” Anthony is looking at her, his eyes demanding.
“It’s a feeling,” she says. “It’s a way you feel.” The words come out sounding thick and automatic. She concentrates on the pressure of his knee, bony and hard against the small of her back. “I think you know,” she adds softly, when her voice seems more like her own again.
When she leans over to kiss him, he clasps her cheeks in his small damp hands. “Sleep tight,” she whispers. Anthony doesn’t let go. “Sleep tight,” she repeats, gently peeling off his fingers.
In the front hall, Cleo has on the long tailored coat, gray slacks, and plat-form sneakers she refers to as her plane PJs. “Asleep?” she asks cheerfully. She already has more important things to think about.
“Almost,” Annie says.
“I’m catching the red-eye. Be back Saturday at noon.” She puts on a gray felt hat.

“You leaving, babe?” Jay comes in from the living room holding the Wall Street Journal in one hand.
“Mm-hmm,” Cleo smiles, adjusting the hat just in time for Jay to knock it askew by enveloping her in his arms for a newspaper-crumpling bear hug and a kiss.
Cleo laughs and kisses him back. A firm but restrictive press of the lips.
“Call when you get there?” Jay says over his shoulder, already walking away across the hall.
“I will.” Cleo makes a what-canyou-do face at Annie as she tucks her hair behind her ears and pulls the hat back into place. “Oh, will you make sure Mrs. Tibbs gets the envelope I put on the counter?”
Annie nods.
“You O.K.?” Cleo fixes Annie with her gaze, but there is something prohibitive about it, just as there was in her kiss.
“Yes,” Annie says. “Have a safe trip.”
“Be strong, kiddo.” Cleo gives Annie a cool, dry kiss on the cheek.
Annie forces a smile and then closes the door after her.
In the kitchen she has the desire—the first in a long time—for a drink. She has not touched alcohol since she was diagnosed. In high school, there were two or three times she got really drunk—an exhilarating, freeing drunk where she became loud, sexy, and silly, the kind of girl who took drama instead of typing. This was a long time ago, when she was a Californian. When she was still living in Long Beach, answering phones at the tattoo parlor her brother worked at, and imagining she would go to design school, marry someone famous, live in a mansion. It was before junior college, before Todd really lost it, certainly before [REDACTED].
Annie opens Cleo and Jay’s liquor cabinet, pulls out the Johnnie Walker, pours herself a glass. It tastes sharp and pure as medicine. Then she turns on the tap to finish the dishes. With her hands immersed in the warm water, the whiskey hot inside her, she tries to listen to her body—tries to feel the movement of her blood, the labored breathing of her cells. But she feels nothing—not even the beating of her heart.
“Hey, why don’t you turn a light on?” Jay is standing in the doorway, where Anthony stood before.
“Oh,” Annie says. “I forgot.” But this isn’t true. She has chosen the darkness. Seeing clearly seems like a distraction; she is surrounded by other people’s clutter.
Jay flips the switch from the doorway but he hesitates before entering. Annie has the feeling he is afraid she is crying.
“Vitamins,” he says. “Forgot my vitamins.”
Annie wipes her face with her sleeve. She takes another sip of whiskey.
“Should you be drinking that—with—you know, your treatment and all?” Jay says the word “treatment” as if it were a euphemism for something sordid. He pours four pills as fat as roaches into his palm. In the refrigerator, bottles of zinc, vitamins C, A, and B, iron, protein powder, and Strong Body Multitabs occupy an entire shelf of the door.
She and Jay have never addressed her illness, a reticence that is not exactly strange but tiring. Cleo, with her strong sense of calm, her reliance on order and the ability to manipulate, has always been the arbiter of conversations about Annie’s health. Jay usually pretends not to be listening, as if it were some other intimate, distinctly feminine problem they were discussing. “He doesn’t get it,” Cleo told Annie once. The comment was slightly unnerving—what was it, exactly, according to Cleo, that Jay didn’t get?
Now, instead of looking at her, he occupies himself with a carton of skim milk.
“Here,” Annie says, handing him a glass. When he pours the milk, the muscles under his taut, sallow skin rise and subside. Annie feels a corresponding rise of something unidentifiable in her gut.
“Your heart rate must be low,” she says unsteadily.
“Forty-nine at rest.” Jay brightens. “Last year it was seventy-two. Count it,” he says, extending his arm.
Annie wraps her fingers around his warm wrist. His pulse crawls as sluggishly as ink through water. Annie counts forty-nine but doesn’t let go. “Fifty, fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three,” she recites out loud and tightens her grip. She concentrates on the flawless rhythm of his blood working its way through his body, nourishing his bones and muscles—she would like to absorb it, gobble it up, make it her own. Jay looks at her quizzically but doesn’t pull away. She raises his wrist to his chest, bending his arm at the elbow, and watches his biceps swell. Suddenly, she can imagine it, pressed against her collarbone—his arm wrapped heavily around her neck and her teeth grazing the pale, damp, almost womanly skin at the crook of his elbow. Her own low breathing, she realizes when the hum of the refrigerator switches off, is the loudest sound in the room.
“Annie,” Jay says, peeling her fingers from his wrist. “I think you need to get some sleep.”
Annie removes her hand. “Maybe.” She is surprisingly unembarrassed, even when she sways slightly against the door frame. She can feel Jay’s eyes following her across the floor.
In the morning, Annie fixes herself breakfast. Early buds have appeared overnight on the trees in the [REDACTED], and the ground looks black and wet with spring. Friday mornings are when she usually goes in to see Dr. Tatel, but this week she is going in on Monday because Dr. Tatel is going out of town. This small irregularity feels exciting—evidence that she is well enough to be rescheduled.
In the last few months, she has learned how to turn her body over to medical science as if it were a sick pet. She can be poked and prodded now without feeling judged by the hands examining for error, can watch her blood coil up out of her arm without getting nauseated, can take the cold metallic sting of the stethoscope without feeling light-headed at the idea of her own beating heart. She has had practice, after all. She went to the emergency room at least four times with her brother before he took off. “Annie,” he would joke afterward, “you watch those doctors like you’re in training.”
From the kitchen, Annie can hear Jay grunting on his chin-up bar. In about an hour, he will come out of the study and walk around the apartment, stretching his elbows behind his head, picking up newspapers and magazines, tossing them back down. At about eleven, he will try to sit at the computer and “organize his notes” before he goes to the gym at two o’clock, but will end up online playing a pro-sports betting game based on the stock market instead.
Annie puts on her sneakers and jacket to go for a walk. She has not left the apartment for four days. On [REDACTED], she is quickly swept up in the rush of taxis, buses, tourists, shoppers, and can collectors rattling their metal carts over the uneven sidewalk. At the corner of [REDACTED] and Sixty-fifth Street, there is a Japanese man with thick glasses trying to feed a chocolate popsicle to a pigeon with a stump instead of a foot. Almost half the pigeons collecting tentatively around him have mutant feet—grotesque, fleshy bulbs or string-tangled toes. Annie can barely look at them, but at the same time cannot look away. She watches them hop around the cracked concrete eating invisible morsels, pecking at each other, and clumsily, violently, trying to mate. Why have they chosen this meagre, earthbound existence when they could be airborne, soaring up above the garbage and pollution—beyond the need to fight over an old man’s crumbs?

It is almost noon by the time Annie realizes she is too cold to stay out any longer. The sun is flat and white and the budding trees cast a blurry shade on the path. Annie heads uptown, suddenly worried that she has exhausted herself, although she feels quite all right. Nannies and baby carriages and strollers have taken over the sidewalk. Nursery schools and half-day programs are getting out—it is the hour of the under-five-year-old. In the apartment, Jay will be fixing lunch—a protein shake, a bowl of cottage cheese, a chicken breast, and iceberg lettuce. The image of his biceps gathering into a round knot and then releasing under her hand appears in her mind. The thick skin, the light hairs, the full, invincible blue-green veins. Mrs. Tibbs will not bring Anthony home for another half hour.
Annie greets Philipe, the doorman. She suspects he sees her as some sort of charity case of Jay and Cleo’s, or, worse yet, as a freeloader. But today her self-consciousness has vanished. Crossing the black and white marble tiles she feels transparent, like one of those tiny clear fish whose slippery bodies filter and refract light, break it into dancing pieces. A clammy layer of perspiration has built up on her lower lip and under her shirt, where the raggedy, nylon-covered under-wire of her bra sits against her rib cage. Anticipation—Annie recognizes the same fluttering feeling that rose in her last night. 

The elevator opens directly into the apartment, which takes up half the building’s twentieth floor. It is bright inside, full of sunlight, dust particles hovering, visible in the air. She has started to shrug her coat off before she realizes there is a hysterical voice coming from the living room. Annie freezes with the coat around her elbows.
“Michele, you can’t—” Jay’s voice interrupts the higher sound of the girl’s voice.
“I can’t? Oh, really, I can’t? You don’t know anything about what I can do, Jay. You don’t know shit about me.” There is the sucking sound of the sliding door to the roof deck being opened.
The hazy bubble of expectation that has carried Annie upstairs bursts in an instant. Of course Jay has been sleeping with Michele. Hasn’t she known this all along? It is her first thought, followed immediately by the urge to back up and away—to get into the elevator, go down to the lobby, out onto the cold street.
“Jesus Christ,” Jay says. “What are you? Don’t—”
But Annie is no longer listening to the words, just to the tense, terrified sound of his voice, which propels her forward, silently, across the sun-bright floorboards. When she gets to the entrance of the living room, she can see Jay standing in the open expanse of the sliding door and beyond him Michele, looking as though she’s about to climb up onto the chest-high brick wall that marks the edge of the terrace. Her hair is pulled back in a severe ponytail that the wind is blowing up in all directions. She looks frightened, a little haggard. And she is high. Annie recognizes the signs from when she lived with Todd.
Both Jay and Michele turn at the same time to look at Annie, although she is not aware of having said anything. “Annie—” Jay says. It is possible that he is crying; his face has an ashen, uncomposed look to it. Annie averts her eyes. He is cowering in the doorway of his own living room, sucked dry by his own fear. The wall Michele is standing at is not even at the edge of the roof—beyond it there are several yards of tar and loose gravel.
Michele says nothing to Annie, but turns to Jay, wide-eyed with a new burst of rage. “You’re probably sleeping with her, too. Aren’t you? You’re probably fucking her right under Cleo’s nose. That’s convenient. You don’t even have to worry about the future, you sick asshole.”
“No, no, no,” Jay protests, and Annie stands absolutely still, bracing herself against the blow implicit in Michele’s words. But they seem to float above her.
The girl looks almost shocked herself, still breathing too fast, but quiet now.
“I’m not dying,” Annie says calmly. “I’m waiting.”
She is aware of a new edge in her voice. A light, powerful feeling begins to course through her. She can feel her own blood finally—she is aware of its quick rhythm in the channels of her veins. She is aware of its feeding her bones and tissues, rushing from one region of her body to another, fuelled by something bright and strong and weightless, impervious to treatment or disease. It is as if some door had opened inside her and she could hear everything—not just her own heartbeat but the hollow, coddled ticking of Jay’s body, the more chaotic, unformed racing of Michele’s, and the troubled cacophony all three of them are making. The sound is real and essential and utterly irrelevant. It makes her think of the time her brother gave her a tattoo—a spindly leaf and its shadow curving along the jutting bone of her ankle. It had hurt like nothing she’d known before, and she’d squirmed and bit her lip until it was bloody, feeling nothing but the prick of the needle against delicate nerve endings, the burn of the ink under her skin. That’s not you, Todd had said, pointing at her ankle. That’s your body—leave it for a minute and come back.
“In fifteen minutes, Anthony will be coming home,” Annie says to Michele. “And then Eden. You’d better go home before that.”
From his place at the glass door, Jay is watching her.
“What makes you such an expert at what I should do?” Michele says. “You just live here. This isn’t even really your home.” But her voice is losing its conviction.
“No, it’s not,” Annie replies. “But I know you should leave now. You should go home and get some rest.”
Michele heaves a deep sigh and runs her hand over her hair in a habitual gesture. “If I leave, it’s for her sake, not yours, Jay,” she says, in a voice that trembles, straining to be haughty. “And for poor Anthony. I’m sorry he has a twisted fuck of a father like you.” Then she takes a few steps across the terrace and past Jay into the living room—stiff, careful steps shaped by some combination of pride and restraint. She plucks her leather jacket up off the sofa and walks across the beige-and-white Chinese carpet, leaving faint gray footprints on the plush surface which Carolita, the cleaning lady, will have to spend hours on her hands and knees scrubbing to remove. The thought flits through Annie’s mind involuntarily.
When Michele gets to Annie, she pauses, close enough for Annie to smell the acrid, strung-out scent of her sweat. “Don’t let him touch you,” she says fiercely. There are little bubbles of saliva in the corners of her mouth. In a moment, she is gone, and the heavy oak door to the elevator vestibule clicks shut.
When Annie turns back toward Jay, he has sunk down onto the sofa with his knees wedged in against the coffee table and his head in his hands. He looks too big and ungainly for the spot he has climbed into. The curve of his back has the slump of defeat. What could she ever have thought his body had to offer?

“It’s not what you think,” Jay begins. “Michele is on something. She’s upset—” He breaks off under Annie’s gaze.
“It’s not my business,” she says. “It isn’t my home.”
“Of course it is. You live here. You take care of Anthony.”
Jay shifts his gaze out toward the terrace in a self-conscious, nearsighted way. Looking at him, Annie is filled with the knowledge of things outside this room, of hospital waiting rooms and of the bowels of complicated machines that can see through flesh to what lies beneath it, of wet sidewalks and empty hallways, of the smell of new leaves and spring earth and grease coming out of coffee-shop air vents, of babies in the [REDACTED] and the serious yellow of taxis and how simple it all looks from above. She is filled with the knowledge of loneliness and suspense and courage. Unlike this man protected by the mantle of good health and good fortune, she knows what is required not to be afraid.
Jay ventures a nervous glance up at her. His face is still pale and covered with a thin sheen of sweat. “I’m sorry—” he begins. “I’m sorry about what Michele—”
“It’s all right,” Annie interrupts. “It doesn’t matter.” And she means it.
From the hall, there is the whirr of the elevator door opening and the sound of Anthony’s high, excited voice, then Mrs. Tibbs’s lower, wearier murmur of response. In a moment, Anthony is rushing toward Annie, flushed with fresh air and emotion. He is waving a sheet of paint-stiffened paper so that colored chips fall from it to the floor. “For you—” He is panting. “I made this. I didn’t know if you’d be here.”  

