FICTION  SUMMER  OF  THE  HOT  TUBS  BY  ANNIE  PROULX     ElkTooth,  [REDACTED],  has  little  going  for  it  beyond  the  junk  yard,  despite  a  population  of  nearly  eighty  people.  If  you  want  a  fancy  dinner  or  batteries  or  tampons  you  drive  forty-four  miles  down  Dog  Ear  [REDACTED]  until  you  hit  Sack  and  there  are  two  stores  and  a  garage.  But  Elk  Tooth  has  its  attractions-the  three  bars,  Silvertip,  the  Pee  Wee,  and  Muddy's  Hole.  The  old  tradition  of  pioneer  wayside  eating  houses-road  ranches-hangs  on  as  well.  There  is  one  of  these  north  of  town  which  serves  supper  for  three  dol-  lars,  although  there  is  no  menu  choice  and  Mrs.  Polidora  uses  paper  plates  unsatisfactory  if  you  like  to  hear  your  fork  clink.  Paper  plates  or  not,  Mrs.  Poli-  dora  will  put  a  platter  of  elk  steaks  on  the  table  flanked  by  a  big  green  bowl  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  pitcher  of  milk  gravy,  and  a  saucer  of  chokecherry  jelly.  Some-  how  she  can  make  that  elk  last  a  year.  In  Elk  Tooth  everyone  tries  to  be  a  character  and  with  some  success.  There  is  little  more  to  it  than  being  broke,  proud,  ingenious,  and  setting  your  heels  against  civilized  society's  pull.  Mrs.  Polidora's  steady  customer  is  Willy  Huson,  who  fixes  trucks  and  lawn-  mowers  in  a  minimal  way.  He  was  born  and  raised  in  Elk  Tooth  but  for  years  lived  in  distant  cities  in  distant  states,  working  as  a  mechanic  for  United  Air-  lines.  When  questioned  why  he  left  a  lucrative  job  to  return  to  Elk  Tooth  he  says,  &quot;I  couldn't  take  it  no  more.&quot;  What  «29  1  it&quot;  is  no  one  asks,  for  everyone  in  Wy-  158  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  19  &amp;  26,  2002  oming  knows  of  thered  hell  that  lies  beyond  the  state's  borders.  He  lives  with  a  tan  dog  he  calls  Igor.  Willy  Huson  has  neither  workshop  nor  garage  but  tinkers  in  the  narrow  dirt  run  in  front  of  his  trailer.  If  the  job  is  a  big  truck  he  parks  it  in  the  road  and  lies  under  it  after  putting  up  a  folding  sign  at  the  curve.  The  sign  says  &quot;Sand  Her  Down,&quot;  which  is  Willy's  way  of  saying  &quot;Go  slow,  mechanic  in  road.&quot;  Igor,  seeing  ,,  Willy  lying  in  the  road,  follows  his  ex-  ample  and  has  been  hit  twice.  Sometimes,  in  a  burst  of  energy,  Willy  continues  to  work  on  a  vehicle  after  the  problem  is  repaired,  putting  in  salvaged  hoses,  running  wires  to  buttons  and  switches.  Deb  Sipple,  a  character  himself,  once  drove  away  in  his  1983  ILLIAM  EGGLESTON/CHEIM  &amp;  REA  Toyota  pickup  with  a  freshly  flushed  ra-  diator  and  eleven  toggle  switches  on  the  dashboard  that  activated  nothing.  Mrs.  Straw  Bird  gother  Explorer  back  with  an  enormous  fixed  spotlight  on  top  that  her  husband  said  would  do  very  well  for  spotting  owls  at  nightor  enemy  aircraft  if  it  hadn't  been  that  the  horn  blew  every  time  they  switched  on  the  beam.  Customers  pay  what  they  feel  the  work  is  worth.  Little  that  Willy  Huson  fixes  runs  longer  than  five  days  or  fifty  miles,  whichever  comes  first,  but  the  general  feeling  is  that  sometimes  that  is  all  you  need-it  will  hold  together  long  enough  to  get  to  Sack  and  the  real  garage.  At  one  time  Willy  Huson  had  started  to  build  a  garage  onto  the  side  of  his  trailer  and  framed  out  a  lean-to  with  poles  stolen  from  Forest  Service  buck  fences-a  pole  here,  another  there.  He  nailed  on  four  boards  selected  randomly  from  his  pile  of  warped  lumber,  then  quit.  It  is  a  point  of  pride  in  Elk  Tooth  to  quit  whenever  and  whatever  needs  quit-  ting.  If  Willy  Huson  stops  working  on  a  lawnmower  or  skimobile  or  truck  at  a  crucial  time  it  is  the  owner's  tough  luck.  Nothing  can  bring  him  back  to  some-  thing  he's  quit.  He  takes  his  time  setting  to  work,  and  some  vehicles  sit  infront  of  the  trailer  for  months  before  he  lifts  their  hoods.  Bartender  [REDACTED]  Gribb,  who  has  once  ortwice  eighty-sixed  Willy  from  the  Pee  Wee,  waited  seventeen  weeks  for  her  1956  Power  Wagon  and  worked  up  a  grudge  while  she  waited.  She  had  taken  it  to  him  in  the  autumn.  It  was  a  spring  day  when  she  found  a  grimy  postcard  in  her  mailbox.  It  said  &quot;fixed.  come  get  it.&quot;  She  got  a  lift  out  to  the  trailer  with  Sven  Polidora,  a  little  drunk  but  on  his  way  home,  seven  miles  west  of  Huson's  trailer.  The  Power  Wagon  stood  forlorn  with  one  wheel  in  the  ditch.  [REDACTED]  called  Willy's  name,  but  there  wasno  answer.  She  shrugged  and  got  into  the  Power  Wagon.  There  was  a  note  on  the  seat:  &quot;leave  money  in  mailbox.&quot;  She  turned  on  the  ignition  first-no  point  in  leaving  money  if  thetruck  still  didn't  run-and  two  tremendous  explosions  shook  the  vehicle.  Fire  spurted  out  the  back  end  of  the  Power  Wagon.  The  engine  died.  She  looked  in  the  rearview  mirror  and  saw  dozens  of  small  burning  objects  scat-  tered  on  Willy  Huson's  grass,  setting  it  on  fire.  She  got  out.  Once  she  gotbe-  yond  the  idea  of  a  terrorist  attack,  the  nuggets  of  fire  looked  familiar;  one  or  two  that  had  escaped  ignition  were  plainly  dog  kibble.  She  scooped  up  the  smoldering  lumps  with  a  tin  can  lying  in  the  yard.  She  guessed  that  during  the  winter  some  enterprising  mouse  had  stolen  dog  food  from  Igor's  dish  and  packed  it  away  in  the  tailpipe  of  the  Power  Wagon.  She  put  the  smoking  can  in  Willy's  mailbox  along  with  a  nickel,  re-started  the  Power  Wagon,  and  drove  back  to  town  trailing  a  stream  of  sparks  and  some  coarse  language.  ast  summer  a  kind  of  madness  swept  through  Elk  Tooth,  a  passion  for  out-  doorhot  tubs.  No  one,  of  course,  bought  one.  All  of  them  were  fashioned  from  scrap  metal,  old  stock  tanks  and  odds  and  ends  found  at  Donald's  Rawhide  Cowboy  Junkyard.  The  more  fastidious  built  plank  boardwalks  around  the  tub  perimeters  to  keep  dirt  and  cactus  spines  out  of  the  water.  In  a  fuel  pinch,  sec-  tions  of  the  walk  could  be  tossed  into  the  firebox.  All  the  hot  tubs  were  heated  by  wood-fired  stoves.  Willy  Huson,  who  sets  his  heels  not  only  against  the  outside  world  but  against  Elk  Tooth's  social  leaders,  was  a  holdout,  full  of  scorn  for  outdoor  bathing.  &quot;If  I  want  a  soak  my  ass  I'll  drive  up  to  Thermop.&quot;  Thermopolis  and  its  famed  hot  springs  wastwo  hundred  and  forty  miles  distant  from  Elk  Tooth  and  clogged  with  tour-  ists.  A  willingness  to  go  there,  said  Deb  Sipple,  showed  how  Willy's  mind  had  been  damaged  by  out-of-state  residence.  &quot;Thing  is,&quot;  said  Sipple,  &quot;I  seen  his  ex-  pression  when  he  was  lookin'  at  my  hot  tub.  He'd  give  his  left  nut  a  have  one  just  like  it.&quot;  Near  the  end  of  the  summer  Willy  Huson  visited  his  grandmother  on  the  old  family  ranch  near  Lingle,  where  the  Husons  had  run  cows  since  1872.  For-  aging  through  an  equipment  shed,  he  came  across  an  object  that  screamed  &quot;hot  tub.&quot;  Better  than  &quot;hot  tub,&quot;  it  screamed  &quot;weird  and  unique  hot  tub  unlike  (and  better  than)  any  other.&quot;  With  the  help  of  his  uncle  Doug  and  two  of  Doug's  boys,  Pliers  and  Rammy,  theygot  it  into  Willy's  truck.  He  started  back  to  Elk  Tooth  singing  &quot;Wrong-Eyed  Jesus&quot;  along  with  Jim  White.  His  uncle  chased  after  him  for  six  miles,  pulled  abreast,  and  shouted  into  the  rushing  wind,  &quot;Don't  you  want  the  tripod?&quot;  &quot;Hell,  yes,  I  only  got  the  one  engine  hoist  and  I  need  it  a  hoist  engines.&quot;  ack  in  Elk  Tooth,  he  made  some  ef-  fort  to  put  his  prize  in  a  secluded  spot,  but,  given  the  nature  of  his  property,  a  narrow  strip  of  ground  between  a  sheer  cliff  and  the  road,  crowded  with  the  house  trailer,  the  lumber  piles,  seven  or  eight  defunct  trucks  (for  parts),  the  four-  board  garage,  the  doghouse,  a  dozen  dead  lawnmowers,  a  pile  of  stone,  another  of  gravel,  and  a  single  young  cottonwood  tree,  there  was  no  secluded  spot.  &quot;Fuck  'em,&quot;  said  Willy  Huson.  He  off-loaded  the  enormous  inch-  thick  cast-iron  pot,  three  feet  across  and  last  used  in  1912  by  some  unknown  biscuit-hurlerin  the  long-ago  Huson  fall  roundup.  Willy  jimmied  it  into  place  near  the  cottonwood,  about  five  feet  from  the  road.  It  swayed  ponderously  from  the  massive  tripod  chain.  After  a  search  Willy  found  two  cut  lengths  of  hose  and  taped  them  together.  The  tape  held  long  enough  to  fill  the  kettle  halfway,  which,  he  thought,  figur-  ing  displacement,  would  be  about  right.  A  flotsam  of  mouse  droppings,  straw  chaff,  and  rust  particles  floated  to  the  surface.  Adhering  to  the  bottom  was  a  crust  of  ninety-year-old  dried  son-of-a-  bitch  stew.  He  split  a  few  sticks  of  kin-  dling,  started  a  fire  beneath  the  pot  with  a  curl  of  tarpaper,  added  chunk  wood.  Smoke  rose.  While  he  waited  for  the  water  to  heat,  he  practiced  shooting  at  the  wasps'  nest  in  the  cottonwood  with  his  .22  pistol.  At  last  steam  rose  from  the  kettle.  There  was  a  heavy  and  peculiar  smell.  He  raked  the  coals  and  smoking  wood  out  from  under  the  pot  and  stripped  down,  draping  his  clothes  over  the  projecting  ends  of  the  boards  in  the  nearby  lumber  pile.  The  remnant  of  the  son-of-a-bitch  stew,  the  size  of  a  cow  pie,  had  loosened  from  the  bottomand  floated  on  top  of  the  water.  He  scooped  it  out  with  his  hand  and  sent  it  flying  into  the  road.  The  water  in  the  tub  was  plenty  hot.  He  put  in  one  foot,  then  the  other.  The  water  rose  above  his  knees.  The  water  was  very  hot  butnot  as  hot  as  the  iron  bottom  of  the  pot,  which  roasted  the  soles  of  his  feet.  He  got  out,  danced  in  the  cool  dirt,  pulled  on  his   boots.  Now  the  boots  were  full  of  grit.  He  felt  the  rim  of  the  pot.  It  was  warm  but  not  searing.  He  decided  on  a  different  entry  trajectory  and  lowered  himself  until  his  more  tender  parts  hung  over  the  water  and  there  he  paused,  sus-  pended,  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ulysses  Bird  (brother  and  sister-in-law  of  Straw  Bird)  drove  slowly  by.  Mrs.  Bird  started  to  wave,  looked  again,  thought  better  of  it.  |  lysses  Bird  walked  into  the  Pee  Wee  Bar  and  said,  &quot;'God  damn,  we  just  seen  somethin'.  Willy  Huson  got  hisself  a  |  cannibal-pot  hot  tub.  He  looked  like  a  mis-  sionary  was  goin'  a  get  boiled.&quot;  He  de-  scribed  the  tub,  the  closeness  of  it  to  the  road,  the  agonized  expression  on  Willy's  face  as  he  sat  hastily  in  the  water,  Mrs.  Bird's  expression  and  exclamations  as  she  thought  of  how  she  had  almost  waved.  [REDACTED]  Gribb,  who  was  tending  bar,  listened  closely.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  she  said  in  her  loud  bartender  voice.  &quot;Get  on  back  there  with  this.&quot;  She  opened  the  refrig-  erator  and  took  out  a  package  of  frozen  corn  and  a  half-empty  jar  of  maraschino  cherries,  then  foraged  in  the  cupboard  for  a  can  of  chili  powder.  &quot;Drop  these  in  his  damn  cannibal  hot  tub.  If  he's  goin'  a  cook  hisself  let's  get  some  flavor  in  there.  Hell,  I'll  come  with  you,  shake  that  chili  where  it  will  do  some  good.&quot;  They  went  as  quickly  as  they  could.  But  Willy  Huson  was  gone,  clothes,  grav-     elly  boots,  truck,  and  all.  The  pot  steamed.  The  water  was  still  hot,  and  in  it  floated  a  wasps'  nest.  A  few  puzzled  wasps  flew  around  the  cottonwood  tree.  There  were  wet  footprints  in  the  dust.  There  was  no  sense  in  wasting  the  chili,  corn,  and  cherries  if  Willy  wasn't  in  his  soup  pot.  There  would  probably  be  another  time.  As  they  turned  to  leave,  Ulysses  Bird  stepped  on  the  son-of-a-bitch  stew,  which,  under  the  influence  of  the  hot  water,  had  metamorphosed  into  a  black  jellyfish.  It  clung  to  his  boot  like  tar.  He  scraped  it  off  with  a  stick,  got  the  stick  pronged  into  it,  and  held  it  up.  It  swung,  glistening.  &quot;Seems  like  it's  fresh,  whatever  it  is,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  got  the  right  shape,  but  I  doubt  it  ever  come  out  a  the  south  end  of  a  cow.  Looks  more  like  a  platypus's  afterbirth.&quot;  [REDACTED]  Gribb  suddenly  took  the  stick  from  his  hand  and  flipped  the  blob  into  the  hot  tub.  &quot;'There,  let  him  find  that  in  his  cannibal  pot.&quot;  Over  the  weeks,  the  drought  dried  up  the  water  in  the  cannibal  hot  tub  and  once  again  the  son-of-a-bitch  stew  lies  dormant  at  the  bottom.  It  was  only  last  month  that  Willy  Huson  reappeared,  driving  a  1949  Land  Rover  and  with  a  non-English-  speaking  Tibetan  girlfriend  at  his  side,  two  items  that  earned  him  towering  status  points  in  the  Elk  Tooth  eccentric-  ity  race.  He  didn't  even  glance  at  the  cannibal  pot;  he  had  quit  that.      