   FICTION  AIRPLANE  BY  HARUKI  MURAKAMI     hat  afternoon  she  asked  him,  &quot;Is  that  an  old  habit,  the  way  you  talk  to  yourself?&quot;  She  raised  her  eyes  from  the  table  and  put  the  question  to  him  as  if  the  thought  had  just  struck  her,  but  it  had  obviously  not  just  struck  her.  She  must  have  been  thinking  about  it  for  a  while.  Her  voice  had  that  hard  but  slightly  husky  edge  it  always  took  on  at  times  like  this.  Shehad  held  the  words  back  and  rolled  them  around  on  her  tongue  again  and  again  before  she  let  them  out  of  her  mouth.  The  two  were  sitting  opposite  each  other  at  the  kitchen  table.  Aside  from  the  occasional  commuter  train  running  on  a  nearby  track,  the  neighborhood  was  quiet-almost  too  quiet  at  times.  Tracks  T8  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  1,  2002  without  trains  passing  over  them  have  a  mysterious  silence  all  their  own.  The  vinyl  tile  of  the  kitchen  floor  gave  his  bare  feet  a  pleasant  chill.  He  had  pulled  his  socks  off  and  stuffed  them  into  his  pants  pocket.  The  weather  was  a  bit  too  warm  for  an  April  afternoon.  Shehad  rolled  up  the  sleeves  of  her  pale  checked  shirt  asfar  as  the  elbows,  and  her  slim  white  fingers  toyed  with  the  handle  of  her  coffee  spoon.  He  stared  at  the  mov-  ing  fingertips,  and  the  workings  of  his  mind  went  strangely  flat.  She  seemed  to  have  lifted  the  edge  of  the  world,  and  now  she  was  loosening  its  threads  little  by  little-perfunctorily,  apathetically,  as  if  she  had  to  do  it  no  matter  how  long  it  might  take.  He  watched  and  said  nothing.  He  said  nothing  because  he  did  not  know  what  to  say.  The  few  sips  of  coffee  left  in  his  cup  were  cold  now,  and  muddy-looking.  e  had  just  turned  twenty,  and  she  was  seven  years  older,  married,  and  the  mother  of  one.  For  him,  she  might  as  well  have  been  the  far  side  of  the  moon.  Her  husband  worked  for  a  travel  agency  that  specialized  in  trips  abroad,  and  so  he  was  away  from  home  nearly  half  of  every  month,  in  places  like  Lon-  don  or  Rome  or  [REDACTED].  He  obvi-  ously  liked  opera.  Thick  three-  and  four-  record  albums  lined  the  shelves,  arranged  by  composer-Verdi,  Puccini,  Donizetti,  Richard  Strauss.  The  long  rows  looked  less  like  a  record  collection  than  a  symbol  of  a  world  view:  calm,  immovable.  He  looked  at  the  husband's  records  when-  ever  he  was  at  a  loss  for  words  or  for  something  to  do;  he  would  let  his  eyes  wander  over  the  album  spines-from  right  to  left,  from  left  to  right-and  read  the  titles  aloud  in  his  mind:  &quot;La  Bo-  heme,&quot;  &quot;Tosca,&quot;  &quot;Turandot,&quot;  &quot;Norma,&quot;  &quot;Fidelio&quot;  .  ..  He  had  never  once  listened  to  music  like  that,  had  never  had  the  chance  to  hear  it.  Not  one  person  among  his  family,  friends,  or  acquaintances  was  an  opera  fan.  He  knew  that  a  music  called  opera  existed,  and  that  certain  people  liked  to  listen  to  it,  but  the  hus-  band's  records  were  his  first  actual  glimpse  ofsuch  a  world.  She  herself  was  not  particularly  fond  of  opera.  &quot;I  don't  hate  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  just  too  long.&quot;  Next  to  the  record  shelves  stood  a  very  impressive  stereo  set.  Its  big,  foreign-made  tube  amp  hunched  down  heavily,  waiting  for  orders  like  a  well-  trained  crustacean.  There  wasno  way  to  prevent  it  from  standing  out  among  the  room's  other,  more  modest  furnishings.  It  had  a  truly  exceptional  presence.  One's  eyes  could  not  help  fixing  on  it.  But  he  had  never  once  heard  it  producing  sound.  Shehad  no  idea  where  to  find  the  power  switch,  and  he  never  thought  to  touch  the  thing.  &quot;There's  nothing  wrong  at  home,&quot;  she  told  him-any  number  of  times.  &quot;My  husband  is  good  to  me,  I  love  my  daughter,  I  think  I'm  happy.&quot;  She  sounded  calm,  even  serene,  as  she  said  this,  with-  out  a  hint  that  she  was  making  excuses  _  for  her  life.  She  spoke  of  her  marriage  &gt;  withcomplete  objectivity,  as  though  dis-  3  cussing  traffic  regulations  or  the  Inter-  5  national  Date  Line.  &quot;I  think  I'm  happy,  2  there's  nothingwrong.&quot;  So  why  the  hell  is  she  sleeping  with  5  me?  he  wondered.  He  gave  it  lots  of  3  thought  but  couldn't  come  up  with  an  2  answer.  What  did  it  even  mean  for  there  3  to  be  &quot;something  wrong&quot;  with  a  mar-  &gt;  riage?  He  sometimes  thought  of  asking  &amp;  her  directly,  but  he  didn't  know  how  to  &amp;  start.  How  should  he  say  it?  &quot;If  you're  so  5  happy,  why  the  bell  are  you  sleeng  W.1th  ¥  [REDACTED];  Should  he  just  come  out  with  it  like  %  that?  He  was  sure  it  would  make  her  cry.  She  cried  enough  as  it  was.  She  would  cry  for  a  long,  long  time,  making  tiny  2  sounds.  He  almost  never  knew  why  she  SIE  SNELL,  was  crying.  But,  once  she  started,  she  wouldn't  stop.  Try  to  comfort  her  though  he  might,  she  would  not  stop  until  a  cer-  tain  amount  of  time  had  gone  by.  In  fact,  he  didn't  have  to  do  anything  at  all-  once  that  time  had  gone  by  her  crying  would  come  to  an  end.  Why  were  people  so  different  from  one  another?  he  won-  dered.  He  had  been  with  any  number  of  women,  all  of  whom  cried,  or  got  angry,  but  each  in  her  own  special  way.  They  had  points  of  similarity,  but  those  were  far  outnumbered  by  their  differences.  It  seemed  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  age.  This  was  his  first  experience  with  an  older  woman,  but  the  difference  in  age  didn't  bother  him  as  much  as  he  had  ex-  pected  it  to.  Far  more  meaningful  than  age  differences,  he  felt,  were  the  different  tendencies  that  each  individual  pos-  sessed.  He  couldn't  help  thinking  that  this  was  an  important  key  for  unlocking  the  riddle  of  life.  After  she  finished  crying,  usually,  the  two  of  them  would  make  love.  Only  then  would  she  be  the  one  to  initiate  it.  Otherwise,  he  had  to  be  the  one.  Some-  times  she  would  refuse  him,  without  a  word,  shaking  her  head.  Then  her  eyes  would  look  like  white  moons  floating  at  the  edge  of  a  dawn  sky-flat,  sugges-  tive  moons  that  shimmered  at  the  sin-  gle  cry  of  a  bird  at  dawn.  Whenever  he  saw  her  eyes  looking  like  that,  he  knew  there  was  nothing  more  he  could  say  to  her.  He  felt  neither  anger  nor  displea-  sure.  &quot;That's  how  it  goes,&quot;  he  thought.  Sometimes  he  even  felt  relieved.  They  would  sit  at  the  kitchen  table,  drinking  coffee,  chatting  quietly.  They  spoke  in  fragments  most  of  the  time.  Neither  was  a  great  talker,  and  they  had  little  in  common  to  talk  about.  He  couldnever  remember  what  it  was  that  they  had  been  saying,  just  that  it  had  been  in  lit-  tle  pieces.  And  all  the  while  one  com-  muter  train  after  another  would  go  past  the  window.  Their  lovemaking  was  hushed  and  tranquil.  It  had  nothing  that  could  prop-  erly  be  called  the  joys  of  the  flesh.  Of  course,  it  would  be  false  to  say  that  they  knew  none  of  the  pleasure  that  obtains  when  a  man  and  a  woman  join  their  bodies,  but  mixed  with  this  were  far  too  many  other  thoughts  and  elements  and  styles.  It  was  different  from  any  sex  he  had  experienced  before.  It  made  him  think  of  a  small  room-a  nice,  neat  room  that  was  a  comfortable  place  to  be.  It  had  strings  of  many  colors  hanging  from  the  ceiling,  strings  of  different  shapes  and  lengths,  and  each  string,  in  its  own  way,  sent  a  thrill  of  enticement  through  him.  He  wanted  to  pull  one,  and  the  strings  wanted  to  be  pulled.  But  he  didn't  know  which  one  to  pull.  He  felt  that  he  might  choose  a  string  and  have  a  magnificent  spectacle  open  up  before  his  eyes,  but  that,  just  as  easily,  everything  could  be  ruined.  And  so  he  hesitated,  and  while  he  did,  another  day  would  end.  The  strangeness  of  this  situation  was  almost  too  much  for  him.  He  believed  that  he  had  lived  his  life  with  his  own  sense  of  values.  But  when  he  was  in  this  room,  hearing  the  trains  goby  and  hold-  ing  the  silent  older  woman  in  his  arms,  he  couldn't  help  feeling  confused.  Again  and  again  he  would  ask  himself,  &quot;Am  I  in  love  with  her?&quot;  But  he  could  never  reach  an  answer  with  complete  conviction.  When  their  lovemaking  ended,  she  would  glance  at  the  clock.  Lying  in  his  arms,  she  would  turn  her  face  slightly  and  look  at  the  black  clock  radio  by  the  head  of  the  bed.  In  those  days,  clock  ra-  dios  didn't  have  lighted  digital  displays  but  little  numbered  panels  that  flipped  over  with  a  tiny  click.  When  she  looked  at  the  clock,  a  train  would  pass  the  win-  dow.  It  was  like  a  conditioned  reflex:  she  would  look,  a  train  would  go  by.  Shewas  checking  the  clock  to  make  sure  it  was  not  time  for  her  four-year-  old  daughter  to  be  coming  home  from  kindergarten.  He  had  happened  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  girl  exactly  once,  and  she  seemed  like  a  sweet  child.  That  was  the  only  impression  she  left  him  with.  He  had  never  seen  the  opera-loving  hus-  band  who  worked  for  a  travel  bureau.  Fortunately.  t  was  an  afternoon  in  May  when  she  first  asked  him  about  his  talking  to  himself.  She  had  cried  that  day-again.  And  then  they  had  made  love-again.  He  couldn't  recall  what  had  made  her  cry.  He  sometimes  wondered  if  she  had  become  involved  with  him  just  so  that  she  could  cry  in  someone's  arms.  Maybe  she  can't  cry  alone,  and  that's  why  she  needs  me,  That  day  she  locked  the  door,  closed  the  curtains,  and  brought  the  telephone  next  to  the  bed.  Then  they  joined  their  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  1,  2002  &gt;:  T9  bodies.  Gently,  quietly,  as  always.  The  doorbell  rang,  but  she  ignored  it.  It  seemed  not  to  startle  her  at  all.  She  shook  her  head  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Never  mind,  it's  nothing.&quot;  The  bell  rang  several  more  times,  but  soon  whoever  it  was  gave  up  and  went  away.  Nothing,  just  as  she  had  said.  Maybe  a  salesman.  But  how  could  she  know?  A  train  rumbled  by  now  and  then.  A  piano  sounded  in  the  distance.  He  vaguely  recognized  the  melody.  He  had  heard  it  once,  long  ago,  in  music  class,  but  he  couldn't  recall  it  exactly.  A  vegetable  seller's  truck  clattered  by  out  front.  She  closed  her  eyes,  inhaled  deeply,  and  he  came-with  the  utmost  gentleness.  He  went  to  the  bathroom  for  a  shower.  When  he  came  back,  drying  himself  with  a  bath  towel,  he  found  her  lying  face  down  in  bed  with  her  eyes  closed.  He  sat  down  next  to  her  and,  as  always,  caressed  her  back  as  he  let  his  eyes  wander  over  the  titles  of  the  opera  records.  Soon,  she  left  the  bed,  got  properly  dressed,  and  went  to  the  kitchen  to  make  coffee.  It  was  a  short  time  later  that  she  asked  him,  &quot;Is  that  an  old  habit,  talking  to  yourself  like  that?&quot;  &quot;Like  what?&quot;  She  had  taken  him  off  ard.  &quot;You  mean,  while  we're  ...?&quot;  &gt;  &quot;No,  no.  Not  then.  Just  anytime.  Like  when  you're  taking  a  shower,  or  when  I'm  in  the  kitchen  and  you're  by  yourself,  reading  the  newspaper,  that  kind  of  thing.&quot;  &quot;I  had  no  idea,&quot;  he  said,  shaking  his  head.  &quot;I've  never  noticed.  I  talk  to  myself  ?&quot;  &quot;You  do.  Really,&quot;  she  said,  toying  with  his  lighter.  &quot;It's  not  that  I  don't  believe  you,&quot;  he  said,  the  discomfort  of  it  affecting  his  voice.  He  put  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth,  took  the  lighter  from  her  hand,  and  used  it  to  light  up.  He  had  started  smok-  ing  Seven  Stars  a  short  time  earlier.  It  was  her  husband's  brand.  He  had  al-  ways  smoked  Hope  regulars.  Not  that  she  had  asked  him  to  switch  to  her  husband's  brand;  he  had  thought  of  taking  the  precaution  himself.  It  would  just  make  things  easier,  he'd  decided.  Like  on  the  TV  melodramas.  &quot;I  used  to  talk  to  myself  a  lot,  too,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;When  I  was  little.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  really?&quot;  &quot;But  my  mother  made  me  stop.  'A  young  lady  does  not  talk  to  herself,  she  used  to  say.  And  whenever  I  did  it  she  got  soangry!  She'd  lock  me  in  a  closet-  which,  for  me,  was  about  the  worst  place  I  could  imagine-dark  and  moldy-     I  wonder  if  future  generations  will  realize  that  their  forefathers  were  such  gun  nuts?&quot;  smelling.  Sometimes  she'd  smack  me  in  the  knees  with  a  ruler.  But  it  worked.  And  it  didn't  take  very  long.  I  stopped  talking  to  myself  completely.  Not  a  word.&quot;  He  couldn't  think  of  anything  to  say  to  this,  and  so  he  said  nothing.  She  bit  her  lip.  &quot;Even  now,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;if  I  feel  I'm  about  to  say  something  I  just  swallow  my  words.  It's  like  a  reflex.  But  what's  so  bad  about  talking  to  yourself?  It's  nat-  ural.  It's  just  words  coming  out  of  your  mouth.  If  my  mother  were  still  alive,  I  think  I'd  ask  her,  'What's  so  bad  about  talking  to  yourself  &quot;  &quot;  &quot;She's  dead?&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh.  But  I  wish  I'd  gotten  it  straight.  I  wish  I'd  asked  her,  'Why  did  you  do  that  to  me&quot;  &quot;  Shewas  playing  with  her  coffee  spoon.  She  glanced  at  the  clock  on  the  wall.  Themoment  shedid  that,  a  train  went  by  outside.  She  waited  for  the  train  to  pass.  Then  she  said,  &quot;I  sometimes  think  that  people's  hearts  are  like  deep  wells.  No-  body  knows  what's  at  the  bottom.  All  you  can  do  is  imagine  by  what  comes  floating  to  the  surface  every  once  ina  while.&quot;  Both  of  them  thought  about  wells  for  a  little  while.  &quot;What  do  I  talk  about  when  I  talk  to  myself  ?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;For  example.&quot;  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  she  said,  slowly  shaking  her  head  a  few  times,  almost  as  if  she  were  discreetly  testing  the  range  of  movement  of  her  neck.  &quot;Well,  there's  airplanes  ...&quot;  &quot;Airplanes?&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh.  You  know.  They  fly  through  the  sky.&quot;  He  laughed.  &quot;Why  would  I  talk  to  myself  about  airplanes,  of  all  things?&quot;  She  laughed,  too.  And  then,  using  her  index  fingers,  she  measured  the  length  of  an  imaginary  object  in  the  air.  This  was  ahabit  of  hers.  One  that  he  had  picked  up.  &quot;You  pronounce  your  words  so  clearly,  too.  Are  you  sure  you  don't  remember  talking  toyourself?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember  a  thing.&quot;  She  picked  up  the  ballpoint  pen  lying  on  the  table,  and  played  with  it  for  a  few  seconds,  but  then  she  looked  at  the  clock  again.  It  had  done  its  job:  in  the  five  minutes  since  her  last  look,  it  had  ad-  vanced  five  minutes'  worth.  &quot;You  talk  to  yourself  as  if  you  were  reciting  poetry.&quot;  A  hint  of  red  came  into  her  face  as  she  said  this.  He  found  this  odd:  why  should  my  talking  to  myself  make  her  turn  red?  He  tried  out  the  words  in  rhythm:  &quot;I  talk  to  myself  /  Almost  as  if  /I  were  reciting  /  Po-e-try.&quot;  She  picked  up  the  pen  again.  It  was  a  yellow  plastic  ballpoint  pen  with  a  logo  marking  the  tenth  anniversary  of  a  cer-  tain  bank  branch.  He  pointed  at  the  pen  and  said,  &quot;Next  time  you  hear  me  talking  to  myself,  take  down  what  I  say,  will  you?&quot;  She  stared  straight  into  his  eyes.  &quot;You  really  want  to  know?&quot;  He  nodded.  She  took  a  piece  of  notepaper  and  started  writing  something  on  it.  She  wrote  slowly,  but  she  kept  the  pen  mov-  ing,  never  once  resting  or  getting  stuck  for  a  word.  Chin  in  hand,  he  looked  at  her  long  eyelashes  the  whole  time.  She  would  blink  once  every  few  sec-  onds,  at  irregular  intervals.  The  longer  he  looked  at  them-these  lashes  which,  until  a  few  moments  ago,  had  been  wet  with  tears-the  less  he  understood:  what  did  his  sleeping  with  her  really  mean?  A  sense  of  loss  overtook  him,  as  if  one  part  of  a  complex  system  had  been  stretched  and  stretched  until  it  became  terribly  simple.  I  might  never  be  able  to  go  anywhere  else  again.  When  this  thought  came  to  him,  the  horror  of  it  was  almost  more  than  he  could  bear.  His  being,  his  very  self,  was  going  to  melt  away.  Yes,  it  was  true:  he  was  as  young  as  newly  formed  mud,  and  he  talked  to  himself  as  if  reciting  posts  She  stopped  writing  and  thrust  the  paper  toward  him  across  the  table.  He  reached  out  and  took  it  from  her.  In  the  kitchen,  the  afterimage  of  some  great  thing  was  holding  its  breath.  He  often  felt  the  presence  of  this  image  when  he  was  with  her:  the  afterimage  of  a  thing  he  had  lost.  But  what  had  he  lost?  &quot;I  know  it  all  by  heart,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  is  what  you  were  saying.&quot;  He  read  the  words  aloud:  Airplane  Airplane  flying  I,  on  the  airplane  The  airplane  Flying  But  still,  though  it  flew  The  airplane's  The  sky?  &quot;All  of  this?!&quot;  He  was  stunned.  &quot;Uh-huh,  the  whole  thing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Incredible!  I  can't  believe  I  said  all  this  to  myself  and  don't  remember  any  of  it.&quot;  She  flashed  a  tiny  smile.  &quot;You  did,  though,  just  like  that.&quot;  He  let  out  a  sigh.  &quot;This  is  too  weird.  I've  never  once  thought  about  airplanes.  I  have  absolutely  no  memory  of  this.  Why,  all  of  a  sudden,  would  an  airplane  come  popping  out?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  but  that  is  exactly  what  you  were  saying,before,  in  the  shower.  You  may  nothave  been  thinking  about  airplanes,  but  somewhere  deep  in  a  for-  est,  far  away,  your  heart  was  thinking  about  them.&quot;  &quot;Who  knows?  Maybe  somewhere  deep  in  a  forest  I  was  making  an  airplane.&quot;  With  a  small  thunk,  she  set  the  ball-  point  pen  on  the  table,  then  raised  her  eyes  and  stared  at  him.  They  remained  silent  for  some  time.  The  coffeein  their  cups  clouded  up  andgrew  cold.  The  [REDACTED]  turned  on  its  axis  while  the  moon's  gravity  imper-  ceptibly  shifted  the  tides.  Time  moved  on  in  silence,  and  trains  passed  over  the  rails.  He  and  she  were  thinking  about  the  very  same  thing:  an  airplane.  The  air-  plane  that  his  heart  was  making  deep  in  the  forest.  How  big  it  was,  and  its  shape,  and  the  color  of  its  paint,  and  where  it  was  going,  and  who  would  board  it.  She  cried  again  soon  after  that.  This  was  the  very  first  time  that  she  cried  twice  in  the  same  day.  It  was  also  the  last.  It  was  a  special  thing  for  her.  He  reached  across  the  table  and  touched  her  hair.  There  was  something  tremendously  real  about  the  way  it  felt-hard  and  smooth,  and  far  away.  *  (Translated,  from  the  Japanese,  by  Jay  Rubin.)   