 FICTION  THE  TROUBLE  WITH  MRS.  BLYNN,  THE  TROUBLE  NYWITH  THE  WORLD  rs.  Palmer  was  dying,  there  was  no  doubt  of  that  to  her  or  to  anyone  else  in  the  household.  The  household  had  grown  from  two,  Mrs.  Palmer  and  Elsie  the  housemaid,  to  four  in  the  past  ten  days.  Elsie's  daughter  Liza,  age  four-  teen,  had  come  to  help  her  mother,  and  had  brought  their  shaggy  sheepdog  Princy-who  to  Mrs.  Palmer  made  a  fourth  presence  in  the  house.  Liza  spent  most  of  her  time  doing  things  in  the  kitchen,  and  slept  in  the  little  low-  ceilinged  room  with  double-deck  bunks  down  the  steps  from  Mrs.  Palmer's  room.  The  cottage  was  small-a  sitting  room  and  dining  alcove  and  kitchen  downstairs,  and  upstairs  Mrs.  Palmer's  bedroom,  the  room  with  the  two  bunks,  and  a  tiny  back  room  where  Elsie  slept.  All  the  ceilings  were  low  and  the  door-  106  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  27,  2002  BY  PATRICIA  HIGHSMITH  z  *  Signy.     ways  and  the  ceiling  above  the  stairway  even  lower,  so  that  one  had  to  duck  one's  head  constantly.  Mrs.  Palmer  reflected  that  she  would  have  to  duck  her  head  very  few  times  more,  as  she  rose  only  a  couple  of  times  a  day,  making  her  way,  her  lavender  dressing  gown  clutched  about  her  against  the  chill,  to  the  bathroom.  She  had  leu-  kemia.  She  was  not  in  any  pain,  but  she  was  terribly  weak.  She  was  sixty-  one.  Her  son  Gregory,  an  officer  in  the  R.A.F.,  was  stationed  in  the  Middle  East,  and  perhaps  would  come  in  time  and  perhaps  wouldn't.  Mrs.  Palmer  had  purposely  not  made  her  telegram  urgent,  not  wanting  to  upset  or  inconvenience  him,  and  his  telegraphed  reply  had  sim-  ply  said  that  he  would  do  his  best  to  get  leaveto  fly  to  her,  and  would  let  her  know  when.  A  cowardly  telegram  hers  had  been,  Mrs.  Palmer  thought.  Why  hadn't  she  had  the  courage  to  say  out-  right,  &quot;Am  going  to  die  in  about  a  week.  Can  you  come  to  see  me?&quot;  &quot;Missus  Palmer?&quot;  Elsie  stuck  her  head  in  the  door,  one  floury  hand  rest-  ing  against  the  doorjamb.  &quot;Did  Mis-  sus  Blynn  say  four-thirty  or  five-thirty  8  today?&quot;  S  Mrs.  Palmer  did  not  know,  and  it  did  5  not  seem  in  the  least  important.  &quot;I  think  a  five-thirty.&quot;  Elsie  gave  a  preoccupied  nod,her  mind  on  what  she  would  serve  for  five-  thirty  tea  as  opposed  to  four-thirty  tea.  The  five-thirty  tea  could  be  less  substan-  tial,  as  Mrs.  Blynn  would  already  have  had  tea  somewhere.  &quot;Anything  I  can  get  you,  Missus  MALCOLM  DUNBA  R/H  ULTON  ARCHI  Palmer?&quot;  she  asked  in  a  sweet  voice,  with  a  genuine  concern.  &quot;No,  thank  you,  Elsie,  I'm  quite  com-  fortable.&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  sighed  as  Elsie  closed  the  door  again.  Elsie  was  willing,  but  unintelligent.  Mrs.  Palmer  could  not  talk  to  her,  not  that  she  would  have  wanted  to  talk  intimately  to  her,  but  it  would  have  been  nice  to  have  the  feeling  that  she  could  talkto  someone  in  the  house  if  she  wished  to.  Mrs.  Palmer  had  no  close  friends  in  the  town,  because  she  had  been  here  only  a  month.  She  had  been  en  route  to  [REDACTED]  when  the  weakness  came  on  her  again  and  she  had  collapsed  on  a  train  platform  in  Ipswich.  A  long  journey  to  [REDACTED]  by  train  or  even  airplane  had  been  out  of  the  question,  so  on  a  strange  doctor's  recommendation  Mrs.  Palmer  had  hired  a  taxi  and  driven  to  a  town  on  the  east  coast  called  Eam-  ington,  where  the  doctor  knew  there  was  a  visiting  nurse,  and  where  the  air  was  splendid  and  bracing.  The  doctor  had  evidently  thought  she  needed  only  a  few  weeks'  rest  and  she  would  be  on  her  feet  again,  but  Mrs.  Palmer  had  had  a  pre-  monition  that  this  wasn't  true.  She  had  felt  better  the  first  few  days  in  the  quiet  little  town,  she  had  found  the  cottage  called  Sea  Maiden  and  rented  it  at  once,  but  the  spurt  of  energy  had  been  brief.  In  Sea  Maiden  she  had  collapsed  again,  and  Mrs.  Palmer  had  the  feeling  that  Elsie  and  even  a  few  other  acquaintances  she  had  made,  like  Mr.  Frowley  the  real-  estate  agent,  resented  her  faiblesse.  She  was  not  only  a  stranger  come  totrouble  them,  to  make  demands  on  them,  but  her  relapse  belied  the  salubrious  powers  of  Eamington  air-just  now  mostly  gale-force  winds  which  swept  from  the  northeast  day  and  night,  tearing  the  but-  tons  from  one's  coat,  plastering  a  sticky,  opaque  film  of  salt  and  spray  on  the  win-  dows  of  all  the  houses  on  the  seafront.  Mrs.  Palmer  was  sorry  to  be  a  burden  herself,  but  at  least  she  could  pay  for  it,  she  thought.  She  had  rented  a  rather  shabby  cottage  that  would  otherwise  have  stayed  empty  all  winter,  since  it  was  early  February  now,  she  was  employ-  ing  Elsie  atslightly  better  than  average  Eamington  wages,  she  paid  Mrs.  Blynn  a  guinea  per  half-hour  visit  (and  most  of  that  half  hour  was  taken  up  with  her  tea),  and  she  soon  would  bring  business  to  the  undertaker,  the  sexton,  and  per-  haps  the  shopkeeper  who  sold  flow-  ers.  She  had  also  paid  her  rent  through  March.  Hearing  a  quick  tread  on  the  pave-  ment,  in  a  lull  in  the  wind's  roar,  Mrs.  Palmer  sat  up  a  little  inbed.  Mrs.  Blynn  was  arriving.  An  anxious  frown  touched  Mrs.  Palmer's  thin-skinned  forehead,  but  she  smiled  faintly,  too,  with  before-  hand  politeness.  She  reached  for  the  long-handled  mirror  that  lay  on  her  bed  table.  Her  gray  face  had  ceased  to  shock  her  or  to  make  her  feel  shame.  Age  was  age,  death  was  death,  and  not  pretty,  but  she  still  had  the  impulse  to  do  what  she  could  to  look  nicer  for  the  world.  She  tucked  some  hair  back  into  place,  moist-  ened  her  lips,  tried  a  little  smile,  pulled  a  shoulder  of  her  nightdress  evenwith  the  other  and  her  pink  cardigan  closer  about  her.  Her  pallor  made  the  blue  of  her  eyes  much  bluer.  That  was  a  pleasant  thought.  Elsie  knocked  and  opened  the  door  at  the  same  time.  &quot;Missus  Blynn,  Ma'am.&quot;  &quot;Good  afternoon,  Mrs.  Palmer,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said,  coming  down  the  two  steps  from  thethreshold  into  Mrs.  Palmer's  room.  She  was  a  full-bodied,  dark-blond  woman  of  middle  height,  about  forty-  five,  and  she  wore  her  usual  bulky  two-  piece  black  suit  with  a  rose-colored  floral  pin  on  her  left  breast.  She  also  wore  pale-  pink  lipstick  and  rather  high  heels.  Like  many  women  in  Eamington,  she  was  a  sea  widow,  andhad  taken  up  nurs-  ing  after  she  was  forty.  Shewas  highly  thought  of  in  the  town  as  an  energetic  woman  who  did  useful  work.  &quot;And  how  are  you  this  afternoon?&quot;  &quot;Good  afternoon.  Well  as  can  be  ex-  pected,  I  think  you'd  say,&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  said  withan  effort  at  cheerfulness.  Al-  ready  she  was  loosening  the  covers,  preparatory  to  pushing  them  back  en-  tirely  for  her  daily  injection.  But  Mrs.  Blynn  was  standing  with  an  absent  smile  in  the  center  of  the  room,  hands  folded  backward  on  her  hips,  surveying  the  walls,  gazing  out  the  window.  Mrs.  Blynn  had  once  lived  in  this  house  with  her  husband,  for  six  months  when  they  were  first  married,  and  every  day  Mrs.  Blynn  said  some-  thing  about  it.  Mrs.  Blynn's  husband  had  been  the  captain  of  a  merchant  ship,  and  had  gone  down  with  it  ten  years  ago  in  a  collision  with  a  Swedish  ship  only  fifty  nautical  miles  from  Eam-  ington.  Mrs.  Blynn  had  never  married  again.  Elsie  said  that  her  house  was  filled  with  photographs  of  the  captain  in  uni-  form  and  of  his  ship.  &quot;Yes-s,  it's  a  wonderful  little  house,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said,  &quot;even  if  the  wind  does  come  in  a  bit.&quot;  She  looked  at  Mrs.Palmer  with  brighter  eyes,  as  if  she  were  about  to  say,  &quot;Well,  now,  a  few  more  of  these  injections  and  you'll  be  as  fit  as  can  be,  won'tyou?&quot;  But  in  the  next  seconds  Mrs.  Blynn's  expression  changed.  She  groped  in  her  black  bag  for  the  needle  and  the  bottle  of  clear  fluid  that  would  dono  good.  Her  mouth  lost  its  smile  and  drooped,  and  deeper  lines  came  at  its  corners.  By  the  time  she  plunged  the  needle  into  Mrs.  Palmer's  fleshless  body,  her  bulg-  ing  green-gray  eyes  were  glassy,  as  if  she  saw  nothing  and  did  not  need  to  see  anything:  this  was  her  business,  and  she  knew  how  to  do  it.  Mrs.  Palmer  was  an  object,  which  paid  a  guinea  a  visit.  The  object  was  going  to  die.  Mrs.  Blynn  be-  came  apathetic,  as  if  even  the  cutting  off  of  the  guinea  in  three  daysor  eight  days  mattered  nothing  to  her,  either.  Guineas  as  such  mattered  nothing  to  Mrs.  Palmer,  but  in  view  of  the  fact  that  she  was  soon  quitting  this  world  she  wished  Mrs.  Blynn  could  show  some-  thing  so  human  as  adesire  to  prolong  the  guineas.  Mrs.  Blynn's  eyes  remained  glassy,  even  when  sheglanced  at  the  door  to  see  if  Elsie  was  coming  in  with  her  tea.  Occasionally  the  floorboards  in  the  hall  cracked  from  the  heator  the  lack  of  it,  and  so  they  did  when  someone  walked  just  outside  the  door.  The  injection  hurt  today,  but  Mrs.  Palmer  did  not  flinch.  It  was  really  such  a  small  thing;  she  smiled  at  the  slightness  of  it.  &quot;A  little  sunshine  today,  wasn't  there?&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  said.  &quot;Was  there?&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  jerked  the  needle  out.  &quot;Around  eleven  this  morning.  I  no-  ticed  it.&quot;  Weakly  she  gestured  toward  the  window  behind  her.  &quot;We  can  certainly  use  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said,  putting  her  equipment  back  in  her  bag.  &quot;Goodness,  we  can  use  that  fire,  too.&quot;  She  had  fastened  her  bag,  and  now  shechafed  her  palms,  huddling  toward  the  grate.  Princy  was  stretched  full  length  be-  fore  the  fire,  looking  like  a  rolled-up  shag  rug.  Mrs.  Palmer  tried  to  think  of  some-   thing  pleasant  to  say  about  Mrs.  Blynn's  husband,  their  time  in  this  house,  the  town,  anything.  She  could  only  think  of  how  lonely  Mrs.  Blynn's  life  must  be  since  her  husband  died.  They  hadhad  no  chil-  dren.  According  to  Elsie,  Mrs.  Blynn  had  worshipped  her  husband,  and  took  pride  in  never  having  remarried.  &quot;Have  you  many  patients  this  timeof  year?&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  asked.  &quot;Oh,  yes.  Like  always,&quot;  Mrs.Blynn  said,  still  facing  the  fire  and  rubbing  her  hands.  Who?  Mrs.  Palmer  wondered.  Tell  me  about  them.  She  waited,  breathing  softly.  Elsie  knocked  once,  by  bumping  a  corner  of  the  tray  against  the  door.  &quot;Come  in,  Elsie,&quot;  they  both  said,  Mrs.  Blynn  a  bit  louder.  &quot;Here  we  are,&quot;  Elsie  said,  setting  the  tray  down  on  a  hassock  made  by  two  massive  olive-green  pillows,  one  atop  the  other.  Butter  slid  down  the  side  of  a  scone,  spread  onto  the  plate,  and  began  to  congeal  while  Elsie  poured  the  tea.  Elsie  handed  Mrs.  Palmer  a  cup  of  tea  with  three  lumps  of  sugar,  but  no  scone,  because  Mrs.  Blynn  said  they  were  too  indigestible  for  her.  Mrs.  Palmer  did  not  mind.  She  appreciated  the  sight  of  well-  buttered  scones,  anyway,  and  of  healthy  people  like  Mrs.  Blynn  eating  them.  She  was  offered  a  ginger  biscuit  and  de-  clined  it.  Mrs.  Blynn  talked  briefly  to  Elsie  about  her  water  pipes,  about  the  reduced  price  of  something  at  the  butch-  er's  this  week,  while  Elsie  stood  with  folded  arms,  leaning  against  the  edge  of  the  door,  letting  in  a  frigid  draft  on  Mrs.  Palmer.  Elsie  was  taking  in  all  Mrs.  Blynn's  information  about  prices.  Now  it  was  ketchup  at  the  health  store.  On  sale  this  week.  &quot;Call  me  if  you'd  like  something,&quot;  Elsie  said,  asusual,  ducking  out  the  door.  Mrs.  Blynn  was  sunk  in  her  scones,  leaning  over  so  the  dripping  butter  would  fall  on  the  stone  floor  and  not  on  her  skirt.  Mrs.Palmer  shivered,  and  drew  the  covers  up.  &quot;Is  your  son  coming?&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  asked  ina  loud,  clear  voice,  looking  straight  at  Mrs.  Palmer.  Mrs,  Palmer  did  not  know  what  Elsie  had  told  Mrs.  Blynn.  Shehad  told  Elsie  that  he  might  come,  that  was  all.  &quot;I  haven't  heard  yet.  He's  probably  |  waiting  to  tell  me  the  exact  time  he'll     come-or  tofind  out  if  he  can  or  not.  You  know  how  it  is  in  the  Air  Force.&quot;  &quot;Um-m,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said  through  a  scone,  as  if  of  course  she  knew,  having  had  a  husband  who  had  been  in  service.  &quot;He's  your  only  son  and  heir,  I  take  it.&quot;  &quot;My  only  one,&quot;  Mrs.Palmer  said.  &quot;Married?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  Then,  anticipating  the  next  question,  &quot;He  has  one  child,  a  daughter,  but  she's  still  very  small.&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn's  eyes  kept  drifting  to  Mrs.  Palmer's  bed  table,  and  suddenly  Mrs.  Palmer  realized  what  she  was  look-  ing  at-her  amethyst  pin.  Mrs.  Palmer  had  worn  it  for  a  few  days  on  her  cardi-  gan  sweater,  until  she  had  felt  so  bad  that  the  pin  ceased  to  lift  her  spirits  and  became  almost  tawdry,  and  she  had  re-  moved  it.  &quot;That's  a  beautiful  pin,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said.  &quot;Yes.  My  husband  gave  it  to  me  years  ago.&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  came  over  to  look  at  it,  but  shedid  nottouch  it.  The  rectangular  amethyst  was  set  in  small  diamonds.  She  stood  up,  looking  down  at  it  with  alert,  bulging  eyes.  &quot;I  suppose  you'll  pass  it  on  to  your  son-or  his  wife.&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  flushed  with  embarrass,  ment,  or  anger.  She  hadn't  thought  to  whom  she  would  pass  it  on,  particularly.  &quot;I  suppose  my  son  will  get  everything,  as  my  heir.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  his  wife  appreciates  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  said,  turning  on  her  heel  with  a  smile,  setting  her  cup  down  in  its  saucer.  Then  Mrs.  Palmer  realized  that  for  the  last  few  days  it  was  the  pin  that  Mrs.  Blynn  had  been  looking  at  when  her  eyes  drifted  over  to  the  bed  table.  When  Mrs.  Blynn  had  gone,  Mrs.Palmer  picked  up  the  pin  and  held  it  in  her  palm  protectively.  Her  jewel  box  was  across  the  room.  Elsie  came  in,  and  Mrs.Palmer  said,  &quot;Elsie,  wouldyou  mind  handing  me  that  blue  box  over  there?&quot;  &quot;Certainly,  Ma'am,&quot;  Elsie  said,  swerv-  ing  from  the  tea  trayto  the  box  on  the       top  of  the  bookshelf.  &quot;This  the  one?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  thank  you.&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  took  it,  opened  the  lid,  and  dropped  the  pin  on  her  pearls.  Shehad  not  much  jewelry,  perhaps  ten  oreleven  pieces,  but  each  piece  meant  a  special  occasion  in  her  life,  or  a  special  period,  and  sheloved  them  all.  She  looked  at  Elsie's  blunt,  homely  profile  as  she  bent  over  the  tray,  arrang-  ing  everything  sothat  it  could  be  carried  out  at  once.  &quot;That  Mrs.  Blynn,&quot;  Elsie  said,  shak-  ing  her  head,  not  looking  at  Mrs.  Palmer.  &quot;Asked  me  ifI  thought  your  son  was  coming.  How  was  I  to  know?  I  said  yes,  I  thought  so.&quot;  Now  she  stood  with  the  tray,  looking  at  Mrs.  Palmer,  and  she  smiled  awkwardly,  as  if  she  had  said  perhaps  too  much.  &quot;The  trouble  with  Mrs.  Blynn  is  she's  always  nosing-if  you'll  pardon  me  saying  so.  Asking  ques-  tions,  you  know?&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  nodded,  feeling  too  low  just  at  that  moment  to  make  a  com-  ment.  Shehad  no  comment,  anyway.  Elsie,  she  thought,  had  passed  back  and  forth  by  the  amethyst  pin  for  days  and  never  mentioned  it,  never  touched  it,  maybe  never  even  noticed  it.  Mrs.  Palmer  suddenly  realized  how  much  more  she  liked  Elsie  than  she  liked  Mrs.  Blynn.  &quot;The  trouble  with  Mrs.  Blynn-she  means  well,  but  .  ..&quot;  Elsie  floundered  and  jiggled  the  tray  in  her  effort  toshrug.  &quot;It's  too  bad.  Everyone'salways  saying  it  about  her,&quot;  she  finished,  as  if  this  summed  it  up,  and  started  out  the  door.  But  she  turned  with  the  door  open.  &quot;At  tea,  forinstance.  It's  always  get  this  and  get  that  for  her,  as  if  she  were  a  grand  lady  or  something.  A  day  ahead  she  tells  me.  I  don't  see  why  she  don't  bring  what  she  wants  from  the  bakery  now  and  then  herself.  If  you  know  what  I  mean.&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  nodded.  She  supposed  she  knew.  She  knew.  Mrs.  Blynn  was  like  a  nursemaid  she  hadhad  for  a  time  for  Gregory.  Like  a  divorcée  she  and  her  husband  had  known  in  [REDACTED].  She  |  was  like  a  lot  of  people.  Mrs.  Palmer  died  two  days  later.  It  was  a  day  when  Mrs.  Blynn  came  in  and  out,  perhaps  six  times,  perhaps  eight.  A  telegram  had  arrived  that  morning  from  Gregory,  saying  that  he  had  at  last  wan-  gled  leave  and  would  takeoff  in  a  matter  of  hours,  landing  at  a  military  field  near  Eamington.Mrs.Palmer  did  not  know  if  she  would  see  him  again  or  not;  she  could  not  judge  her  strength  that  far.  Mrs.Blynn  took  her  temperature  and  felt  her  pulse  frequently,  then  pivoted  on  one  foot  in  the  room,  looking  about  asif  she  were  alone  and  thinking  her  own  thoughts.  Her  expression  was  blankly  pleasant,  her  peaches-and-cream  cheeks  aglow  with  health.  &quot;Your  son's  due  today,&quot;  Mrs.  Blynn  half  said,  half  asked,  on  one  of  her  visits.  «Yes,&quot;  Mrs.Palmer  said.  It  was  then  dusk,  though  it  was  only  four  in  the  afternoon.  That  was  the  last  clear  exchange  she  had  with  anyone,  for  she  sank  into  a  kind  of  dream.  She  saw  Mrs.  Blynn  staring  at  the  blue  box  on  the  top  of  the  bookshelf,  staring  at  it  even  as  she  shook  the  thermometer  down.  Mrs.Palmer  calledfor  Elsie  andhad  her  bring  the  box  to  her.  Mrs.  Blynn  was  not  in  the  room  then.  &quot;This  is  to  go  to  my  son  when  he  comes,&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  said.  &quot;All  of  it.  Everything.  You  understand?  It's  all  written  ..  .&quot;  But,  even  though  it  was  all  itemized,  a  single  piece  like  the  ame-  thyst  pin  might  be  missing  and  Greg-  ory  would  never  do  anything  about  it,  maybe  not  even  notice,  maybe  think  she'd  lost  it  somewhere  in  the  last  weeks  and  not  reported  it.  Gregory  was  like  that.  Then  Mrs.Palmer  smiled  at  her-  self,  and  also  reproached  herself.  You  can't  take  it  with  you.  That  was  very  true,  and  people  who  tried  to  were  despicable  and  rather  absurd.  &quot;Elsie,  this  is  yours,&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  said,  and  handed  Elsie  the  amethyst  pin.  &quot;Oh,  Mrs.  Palmer!  Oh,  no,  I  couldn't  take  Elsie  said,  not  taking  it,  and  in  fact  retreating  a  step.  &quot;You've  been  very  good  to  me,&quot;  Mrs.  Palmer  said.  Shewas  very  tired,  and  her  arm  dropped  to  the  bed.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  she  murmured,  seeing  that  it  was  really  no  use.  Her  son  came  at  six  that  evening,  sat  with  her  on  the  edgeof  her  bed,  held  her  hand  and  kissed  her  forehead.  But  when  she  died  Mrs.  Blynn  was  closest,  bending  over  her  with  her  great  round  peaches-and-cream  face  and  her  green-gray  eyes  as  expressionless  as  some  fantastic  reptile's.  Mrs.  Blynn,  to  the  last,  continued  to  say  crisp,  efficient  things  to  her,  like  &quot;Breathe  easily.  That's  it,&quot;  and  &quot;Not  chilly,  are  you?  Good.&quot;  Somebody  had  mentioned  a  priest  ear-     I  ltke  you,  Henry—you’re  one  of  the  few  people  around  here  who  actually  get  it.&quot;  lier,  but  this  had  been  overruled  by  both  Gregory  and  Mrs.  Palmer.  So  it  was  Mrs.  Blynn's  eyes  that  she  looked  into  as  her  life  left  her.  Mrs.  Blynn  so  au-  thoritative,  strong,  efficient,  one  might  have  taken  her  for  God  himself.  Espe-  cially  since  when  Mrs.  Palmer  looked  toward  her  son  she  couldn't  really  see  him,  only  a  vague  pale-blue  figure  in  the  corner,  tall  and  erect,  with  a  dark  spot  at  the  top  that  was  his  hair.  He  was  look-  ing  at  her,  but  now  she  was  too  weak  to  call  him.  Anyway,  Mrs.  Blynn  had  shooed  them  all  back.  Elsie  was  stand-  ing  against  the  closed  door,  ready  to  run  out  for  something,  ready  to  take  any  order.  Near  her  was  the  smaller  fig-  ure  of  Liza,  who  occasionally  whis-  pered  something  and  was  shushed  by  her  mother.  In  an  instant,  Mrs.  Palmer  saw  her  entire  life-her  carefree  child-  hood  and  youth,  her  happy  marriage,  the  blight  of  the  death  of  her  other  son  at  the  age  of  ten,  the  shock  of  her  hus-  band's  death  eight  years  ago-but  all  in  all  a  happy  life,  she  supposed,  though  she  could  wish  that  her  own  character  had  been  better,  purer;  that  she  had  never  shown  temper  or  selfishness,  fori  n-  stance.  All  that  was  past  now,  but  what  remained  was  a  feeling  that  she  had  been  imperfect,  wrong,  like  Mrs.  Blynn's  presence  now,  like  Mrs.  Blynn's  faint  smile,  wrong,  wrong  for  the  time  and  the  occasion.  Mrs.  Blynn  did  not  under-  stand  her.  Mrs.  Blynn  did  not  know  her.  Mrs.  Blynn,  somehow,  could  not  com-  prehend  good  will.  Therein  lay  the  flaw,  and  the  flaw  of  life  itself.  Life  is  a  long  failure  of  understanding,  Mrs.  Palmer  thought,  a  long,  mistaken  shutting  of  the  heart.  Mrs.  Palmer  had  the  amethyst  pin  in  her  closed  left  hand.  Hours  ago,  sometime  in  the  afternoon,  she  had  taken  it  with  an  idea  of  safekeeping,  but  now  she  realized  the  absurdity  of  that.  She  had  also  wanted  to  give  it  to  Greg-  ory  directly,  and  had  forgotten.  Her  closed  hand  lifted  an  inch  or  so,  her  lips  moved,  but  no  sound  came.  She  wanted  to  give  it  to  Mrs.  Blynn:  one  positive  and  generous  gesture  she  could  still  make  to  this  essence  of  nonunderstand-  ing,  she  thought,  but  now  she  had  not  the  strength  to  make  her  want  known-  and  that  was  like  life,  too,  everything  a  little  too  late.  Mrs.  Palmer's  lids  shut  on  the  vision  of  Mrs.  Blynn's  glassy,  atten-  tive  eyes.