OF MYSTERY THERE IS NO END
By Leonard Michaels

Traffic might move at any moment. He might still get to the dentist on time, but Nachman was pessimistic and he assumed that he would miss his appointment. He pictured himself apologizing to Gudrun, the dentist’s assistant, a pale Norwegian woman in her forties with white-blond hair. Nachman could almost hear his ingratiating tone. He was begging Gudrun to forgive him, swearing that it would never happen again, when he felt himself being watched. He looked to his left. In the car next to his, a young woman was staring at him. She looked away immediately and pretended to chat on a cell phone, as though indifferent to Nachman, who now stared at her. He saw heavy makeup and chemical red hair. She was smoking a cigarette and tapping the steering wheel with her thumb, keeping time to music on her car radio. Nachman imagined reaching into her car, snatching away her cell phone and cigarette, turning off her radio, and ordering her to sit still. She would soon be reduced to quivering lunacy. Drivers in [REDACTED] shoot one another for no reason, let alone for rude staring.
Of course, Nachman would never have shot anybody. He pitied the woman who encumbered her head with cell phones, cigarettes, popular music, and unnatural colors. Compared to her, Nachman was a sublime being. He could sit alone for hours in his office with only a pencil and a notebook. Thinking. In fact, there was a pencil and a notebook in the glove compartment. Nachman’s car could be his office. He would do math problems. Millions were stalled and rotting in their cars in [REDACTED], but Nachman had internal resources.
He leaned toward the glove compartment and, just as he touched the release button, his eye was drawn by a flash of black hair. He looked. Adele Novgorad, the wife of Nachman’s best and oldest friend, Norbert Novgorad, was standing on the sidewalk. Nachman wanted to call out her name, but hesitated. He was sure it was Adele, though she was turned away from him. Few people in [REDACTED] had such wonderfully black hair and skin so white. But she was talking to a man who had an unusually large and intimidating mustache, and they stood close together—too close—facing each other in front of a motel, about ten yards from Nachman’s car. Horns blared behind Nachman. He heard the horns, but they meant nothing. Adele and the man had begun kissing.
The horns blared again and again and at last they pierced Nachman’s trance. He looked away from Adele to the road, but for Nachman, still shocked by what he had seen, the avenue, the traffic, the buildings were all meaningless. He grasped the steering wheel. [REDACTED] Avenue was clear for a thousand yards straight ahead, but he didn’t step on the gas pedal. He looked back at Adele. She had stopped kissing the man, though she still clung to him; the man had now heard the horns and was looking over her shoulder at Nachman’s car. When their eyes met, Nachman stepped on the gas and released the clutch. In the rearview mirror, he saw Adele separate from the man. He was pointing at Nachman’s car. Adele looked. Having seen too much, Nachman had been seen.
Driving south down [REDACTED], Nachman felt something like a thrill of departure, as when a boat leaves the shore, but the thrill was unpleasant. He seemed to be departing from himself, or from everything familiar to himself. Through the blur of feeling, a voice spoke to him: “You must tell Norbert what you saw on [REDACTED] Avenue.” It was Nachman’s own voice, commanding and severe.
He could drive to the community college where Norbert was a professor. And then what? Interrupt a lecture or a department meeting to tell him that he had seen Adele kissing somebody? How ridiculous. Besides, if he told Norbert, Adele would hate him. She, too, was his friend. She had invited Nachman to dinner many times, and she always gave him a tight hug and a kiss when he arrived and again when he left, pressing her warm lips against his cheek. She cooked special dishes for Nachman. To please her, he cried out with pleasure at the first bite, and when she looked gratified he took more delight in her expression than he did in the food. With her cooking and hugs and kisses, Adele made Nachman feel that he was very important to her. He liked her enormously. He also got a kick out of her smile, which was usually accompanied by a frown, as if happiness were a pleasant form of melancholy. Nachman sometimes wanted to lean across the dinner table and kiss the lines in her brow. He suddenly heard himself speak again, in a cruel voice, as if he were a stranger to himself and had no regard for his own feelings about Adele: “You must tell Norbert what you saw on [REDACTED] Avenue.”
Nachman hammered the dashboard with his fist and shouted an obscenity. In the twenty-first century, in [REDACTED], a great city of cars where no conceivable depravity wasn’t already boring to high-school kids, Nachman, a grown man, found himself agonized by an ancient moral dilemma.
Was it his duty to tell Norbert or to protect Adele? Would it make any difference if he told Norbert? Yes, it would make a difference. The friendship would be ruined. Nachman forced himself to ask: Did he want to hurt his friend Norbert? There was no reason to tell him, unless he wanted to hurt him. People who told unbearable news to friends, as if it were their duty, and then felt very good about themselves while their friends felt miserable—Nachman was not like those people. Besides, to feel good about oneself was important only to narcissists, not to Nachman. Nachman loved his friend Norbert and would sooner cut off his own arm than hurt him just to feel good about himself. In the righteous fervor of his thinking, Nachman forgot about his dental appointment.
He drove to the ocean and turned toward [REDACTED]. He barely noticed that he had passed his house. After a while, he saw a place to stop. He parked close to the beach and left his car. He trudged along the sand without taking off his shoes. The ocean was a sheet of glinting metallic brilliance. Gulls were dark blades soaring in the white glare of the afternoon sun. For the gulls, light was no different from air. For Nachman, the difference between one thing and another was the most serious consideration in life. The gulls brought this home to him with terrible poignancy. He remembered his first lesson in mathematics, when he had learned about differences.
After his parents had divorced, when Nachman was five, and his father had moved out, Nachman’s mother’s aunt, Natasha Lurie, had come to stay. She was a small elderly woman from [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and had been a well-known mathematician in her youth. She decided to teach Nachman mathematics, and began the lesson by asking him, in a soft tired voice, to write the word “mathematics.” Nachman wrote it phonetically, with an “a” in the middle. Natasha, who reminded him of clothes hanging on a line, susceptible to the least touch of the wind, took Nachman’s pencil out of his hand. Pinching the pencil between her own skinny white fingers, she dragged the eraser back and forth on the paper, back and forth until the “a” was obliterated. Then she drew a round and perfect “e,” pushing the pencil point into the fibre of the paper and pulling the shape of the letter, like a small worm, slowly into view. More than four decades later, trudging on the beach in [REDACTED], Nachman saw again the red rims of Aunt Natasha’s ancient eyes. She looked at Nachman to see if he understood. The lesson had had little to do with spelling or with mathematics. She had taught him that there was a right way. It applied to everything.

He thought of Adele smooching on [REDACTED] Avenue as he trudged back to his car and drove to Santa Monica and then to his house. When he opened the door, Nachman heard the phone ringing. It continued to ring while he looked through the mail he had collected from the box attached to the front of his house. He entered his study and sat down at his rolltop desk. The phone continued ringing.
Nachman put the bills in one pile and dropped junk mail, unopened, into a wastebasket. Then he opened his personal mail. He found a request: Would Professor Nachman read the manuscript of a proposed mathematics textbook? It was being considered for publication by a major East Coast firm. The job would take many hours. Nachman would be paid five hundred dollars for his opinion and suggestions. It wasn’t much money, but he supposed he was expected to feel honored by the request. He then found two invitations. One was to a conference on mathematical physics, in [REDACTED]. Why had they invited Nachman? It wasn’t his specialty. The appropriate mathematicians had probably turned them down. The second invitation was for a defense job. It had to do with anti-ballistic-missile systems and would pay ten times what Nachman was making at the Institute of Mathematics. It was a job, Nachman guessed, that was held only by third-rate mathematicians and by spies. Anti-ballistic missiles, indeed. Nachman felt insulted. What a terrible day. The phone was ringing. Nachman went to the bathroom and swallowed an aspirin. He then went to the bedroom and sat on the edge of his bed and took off his shoes and socks. The phone on his night table was ringing.
Late afternoon light, filtered by the leaves of an avocado tree outside his bedroom window, glowed on the pine floor and trembled like the surface of a pond. It was a beautiful and deeply pleasing light, but the roots of the magnificent avocado tree had been undermining the concrete foundation of Nachman’s house for years. He thought about that almost every day. Sooner or later, he would have to choose between the tree and the resale value of the house.
There was sand in his shoes and socks, and sand between his toes. On the night table beside the bed, the phone was ringing. Nachman lay down on his back and placed his right forearm across his eyes.
Let the foundation be torn apart. Let the house fall down. Let the phone ring. Nachman would sleep. Let the phone ring. . . . It was impossible to sleep. Nachman sat up on the edge of his bed and lifted the receiver. He didn’t say hello.
“It’s me,” she said.
“Goodbye,” Nachman said.
“Don’t you dare hang up. You knew it was me. You could hear the ringing. You’re the only person in [REDACTED] who doesn’t have an answering machine. You heard the phone. Why didn’t you pick it up?”
“Between you and me, Adele, a certain subject does not exist.”
“If any subject doesn’t exist, no subject exists.”
“So we have no subjects.”
“I caused you pain. Is that it?”
“I live a simple life. Like a peasant. I go to work. After dinner I go to sleep. I have no interest in adventures.”
“We have different needs. I’m not you, Nachman. And you are not me. I couldn’t live without an answering machine or a television set.”
“O.K., let’s leave it at that. I have a headache.”
“I don’t want to leave it at that. I want to understand. I have great respect for your opinions.”
“Adele, I am not in the mood for a confessional orgy. I will say only this—I don’t believe that experience, for its own sake, is the highest value. Kissing in the street, in the middle of [REDACTED] . . . For God’s sake. How could you?”
“You saw me kissing a guy. Was it a threat to your peasant simplicity?”
“In the middle of the afternoon, on [REDACTED] Avenue, with the bubees and zeydeswalking home with grocery bags. There are limits.”
“I think you mean morals.”
“O.K., morals. Yes, morals. You have something against morals?” Nachman heard himself shouting and felt his breath coming faster.
“Morals-schmorals. It sounds to me like you think I did something to you personally.”
“I saw you kissing some guy who isn’t Norbert, my best friend, who happens to be your husband. It was a spectacle of irresponsible lust performed in public, in my face—Norbert’s best friend.”
“Nachman_,_ get ahold of yourself! How the fuck would I know that Norbert’s best friend was stopped in traffic, twenty feet away?”
“You trivialize my feelings.”
“What is it that you feel? Tell me exactly.”
“This minute, talking to you, I feel exactly as if I were betraying Norbert.”
“Oh, please. Every time you look at me, you betray Norbert. When I stroll down Wilshire Boulevard, Norbert is betrayed sixty times a minute. I answer the door to the postman, Norbert has horns. This is [REDACTED], not Saudi Arabia. I’m a woman on display, front and back. Do you know it’s been said that a modern woman can neither dress nor undress.”
“Who said it?”
“I don’t know, but it’s true. Look, all that matters is you and me, Nachman—we’re friends. Our conversation is not a betrayal of anybody. Aren’t we friends? I thought we were friends.”
Adele was crying.
“Of course,” Nachman said, his voice hoarse, on the verge of failure.
“Nachman, are you in love with me?” Adele said. “Is that the real problem here?”
“I love many people.”
“Liar. You love your mother in [REDACTED], and you never talk about your father or your colleagues or the women you date. Anyhow, I said ‘in love with me.’ “
“What does that have to do with anything?”
“It has to do with everything. Norbert is the injured party, not you. Don’t you hear yourself?”
“What should I hear?”
“Don’t be a mystery to yourself, Nachman. Maybe we all walk in darkness, shadows, mystery—I wouldn’t deny it—but you must try to understand. Of mystery there is no end. Of clarity there is precious little.”
“Adele, you’re raving. Stop it.”
She spoke in a rush, sniffling and sobbing, “O.K., I’ll stop, but I want to make things clear to you. The telephone is no damn good. Let’s meet at Calendar’s, near the La Brea Tar Pits. It’s a few blocks from my office. I go there for lunch. One o’clock tomorrow. If you don’t show up, Nachman, I’ll understand that you didn’t want to betray Norbert. But please do show up.”
After the phone call, Nachman felt better. Nothing had actually changed, and yet he could think more liberally about what hadn’t changed.
He continued to sit on the edge of his bed. He didn’t want to move. It seemed he could still hear Adele’s unmelodious voice, which had been made ragged by cigarettes. Adele had urged him to examine his feelings, but he didn’t care to know too much about what he felt. After all, as soon as you know what you feel, you feel something else. No. There would be no such examination. It was enough that he felt cheered by Adele’s phone call. He admired her daring. He was reminded of how he liked her sluggish, heavy carriage. She walked as if she had large breasts, though they were average, proportionate to her height, which was about five feet five inches. Her hips seemed to lock slowly, and then reluctantly to unlock as she walked, toes pointed outward. Nachman wanted, mindlessly, to hug her.

O.K., he thought, energized, returning to himself, the moral being. Look at the issue analytically, from Adele’s point of view. As Adele had said, people have different needs. So let’s be fair to Adele, a green-eyed Hungarian woman with considerable intelligence and nice hips.
It was obvious, Nachman suddenly realized, that the unrelenting repetitiousness of domestic life was destroying Adele. So the poor woman had been unfaithful. What was infidelity, anyhow? What was it precisely that Adele might have done? Let’s get that straight. She kissed a man? Big deal. Perhaps she had sexual intercourse? Oh, who cares? It was an imaginative experience, a mental tonic, like a trip to [REDACTED], except of course you don’t bring back photographs of yourself in a motel room performing fellatio to show your friends. But who cares? With stunning visionary force, a picture burst into Nachman’s mind. Adele was naked, lying on her back with her wrists tied to bedposts. She smiled with vague, soporific satisfaction at Nachman, her green eyes glazed by a delirium of pleasure as she said, in her cigarette voice, “Morals-schmorals.”
The picture vanished. Nachman looked down at his shoes, which he had dropped beside the bed. He felt an extraordinary need for ordinariness. His shoes were British. Hand-sewn, soft, reddish-brown leather. He’d worn them for years and he’d had them resoled and re-heeled at least three times. He kept them oiled. They were molded perfectly to the shape of his feet and so pliant they felt buttery. It occurred to Nachman, though he hadn’t been thinking about it, that maybe Norbert already knew about Adele’s lover.
If Norbert knew, and if Nachman told Norbert what he had seen, it might be grotesquely embarrassing. Boundaries are crucial to the integrity of relationships. That settled it. He wouldn’t tell Norbert and he wouldn’t meet Adele for lunch. It was an enormous relief to have arrived at this understanding of his situation.
Traffic moved normally the next afternoon, so Nachman was on time when he parked his car in the lot near the La Brea Tar Pits. Calendar’s was crowded. Waiters rushed down the aisles, with expressions of intense concentration, as if solving puzzles. There was ubiquitous chatter and laughter. Nachman looked around for Adele. When he saw her, he took a breath and started toward her table. She was wearing sandals, jeans, a celadon-green tank top, and a thin beaded necklace of primary colors. Beside her wine glass was a newspaper, which she pressed down with her hand as she read it. She glanced up as Nachman approached. She smiled, folded the newspaper, and dropped it beneath her chair. She continued smiling as Nachman sat down. He looked at her tank top and her necklace. He looked at her wedding ring, a barrel of dull yellow, and then at her watch. It had a large face, etched with black numerals, and a clear plastic band. Adele continued smiling. Nachman shook his head ruefully as he finally looked directly at her face.
Her black shining hair was pulled back severely, and tied with a red ribbon. She wore assertive poppy-red lipstick. In gold-framed glasses, her eyes, related to the color of her tank top though much brighter, accepted Nachman’s attention, but he could see their uncertainty. Her smile became tentative. Quizzical.
“Order something,” she said, unable to bear Nachman’s silence.
“I don’t want anything.”
“Won’t you have a glass of wine?” she implored, as if it would do her good if Nachman had a glass of wine. Her smile was weak.
“All right.”
Adele raised her hand. A passing waiter stopped. Adele said, “Two more,” pointing to her wine glass. The waiter nodded.
“I shouldn’t have another,” Adele said. “I have to work on a difficult case this afternoon. I hired a new assistant. A gay kid named Geoffrey Horley Harms. He has two degrees. Three names and two doctorates, can you believe it?” She paused, then said, “What are you thinking?”
“I wasn’t thinking.”
“You’ve never been married. You don’t know what it’s like.”
Nachman looked around at the action in the restaurant and sighed.
Adele said, “This is going nowhere. Look at me, please. I want to talk to you. I wasn’t raised by Protestants. I’m not a nice person. Do you follow me? I’m a very direct person.”
“What are you talking about?”
“I want your full attention.”
“O.K.”
“I’m glad you saw me outside the motel.”
“I was stuck in traffic. I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be sorry. I’m grateful. What you saw has been going on for a long time, but I could never tell anybody. If I told my girlfriends it would be unfair to Norbert. I’m bad, but I’m not evil. The guy you saw me with—Ivan—is from another life. I was in high school when we met. I was a kid. Ivan was already out of college, working. His mustache got to me. I don’t know why. It made his face so fierce. But Ivan is very kind. He is in the insurance business, a claims adjuster. He doesn’t live in [REDACTED]. Sometimes he disappears for two or three years, then he phones me as if we were still together. As if I had never married. People stare at him because of his mustache. When he wears dark glasses he has no face, just a nose.”
“Adele, what did you want to talk about?”
“I’m talking about it.”
Nachman shut his eyes for a second, as if things would be different when he opened them. Nothing was different.
“Ivan phoned again a few days ago. Believe me, I was very clear and firm. I said I wouldn’t meet him. I said that I felt bad about having done so in the past. I told him exactly how I felt. He started begging. I said no, no, no. The next day, he walked into my office. I almost fainted. He looked worse than shit. But the mustache was there, and old feelings were stirred. I was transported. What could I do? Even if I were a happily married woman, the old feelings would be there. I was helpless.”
“Helpless? You?”
“Give me a break, Nachman.”
“All right, you were helpless.”
“So we went to a motel. Try to understand, Nachman. It’s been going on for years, and I never told anyone. Motels. You wouldn’t believe how many motels I’ve been in. Did you know that a lot of Indians are in the motel business?”
“I can’t begin to tell you how interesting that is to me. Hindus or Muslims?”
“That’s enough. I don’t like being teased. So we went to the motel, a squalid dump at the edge of a trailer park.”
A picture came. A motel room. The walls were water-stained and the paint was peeling away. Adele was standing beside a bed where a man lay. His eyes peered over a huge mustache, gazing at Adele as she stepped into her panties. She pulled them up, then plucked the material free of the crease in her behind. At that instant Nachman’s wine glass was set before him. He reached too quickly and knocked the glass over. Wine splattered Adele.
Nachman said, “I’m sorry. I’m sorry.”

Adele’s tank top bore dark splotches like the shadows of maple leaves.
“They once threw stones,” Adele said. “I’m getting off easy.”
“What can I say?”
“I wanted you to listen. You don’t have to say anything.”
Adele swept her tongue across her teeth. A tiny dark-green shape, perhaps a piece of arugula, was plastered against her front tooth. Nachman ordered another glass of wine.
“If I hadn’t seen you yesterday,” he said, “nobody would ever have known.”
“These things come out. I told Ivan it was over. I think he heard me this time. Why don’t you order a sandwich or something? I already had a salad.”
Nachman didn’t want anything.
Outside the restaurant, they stopped for a moment in the sunlight and looked up the avenue toward the County Museum.
“We should go there someday,” Nachman said. “See the show and then go somewhere and have lunch.”
“I’d like that.”
Nachman kissed Adele on the cheek. She said, “Do you think I should . . . now that I’ve told you?”
“Yes. Tell Norbert.”
Nachman sounded principled, but he was already worried about whether Adele would ever invite him to dinner again. It would be a great loss if she decided that she had said too much and would prefer not to have Nachman around at the same time as her husband.
She had said that she was bad but not evil. Nachman wasn’t sure what she’d meant. He supposed it had to do with Norbert’s integrity. How he lived, consciously or not, in the eyes of other people. That was important to Adele. She wanted to protect Norbert. It was an aesthetic as well as a moral consideration. She’d had a long affair with Ivan, the mustache, but everything had ended in the motel. Nachman decided that, even bad, Adele remained lovable.
A week later, Norbert phoned. It was late evening. Nachman heard fatigue and displeasure in Norbert’s voice. It sounded like anger or controlled pain. All that had troubled Nachman the week before rushed into his mind. He felt regret and shame. He braced internally, expecting to hear Norbert say, “You’re a rat, Nachman. I’m furious with you.”
Nachman hadn’t told Norbert what he’d seen on [REDACTED] Avenue, and he’d met Adele for lunch, thereby making himself complicitous. Nachman had agonized over those things, but to know what you’re doing is not the same as fully appreciating the terribleness of it. Nachman pressed the receiver hard against his ear. He’d never felt worse. If punishment were available to people the moment they deserved it, Nachman would have been punished days before. He would then have been able to show Norbert the receipt. Nachman suddenly realized that every move a person made was to one degree or another criminal, and that there was a great shortage of punishment. These thoughts occurred in the instant before Norbert said, “Would you like to go for a drive? I bought a new car.”
Norbert hadn’t denounced him, thank God, but Nachman didn’t look forward to the drive. Who knows what might be said? Who knows what lies Nachman might be obliged to tell? Nachman put down the receiver. His heart was beating quickly and heavily.
Fifteen minutes later, Norbert came by in his new car. It had a big engine and a dashboard like the flight panel of an airliner. Nachman had no idea what company made the car, and he wasn’t curious. If the car nourished Norbert’s spirit with fantasies of power, that was good.
“I like your new car,” Nachman said. “Really great. Beautiful.”
“Umm,” Norbert said, as if distracted.
Norbert drove out of the city along the [REDACTED] Freeway. When a stretch of open road appeared, he stepped hard on the gas pedal. Nachman’s spine pressed against the seat.
“Too fast, don’t you think?” Nachman said.
“Are you serious?” There was contempt in Norbert’s question. He continued. “I do a hundred and fifty in the desert.”
Nachman glanced at the speedometer, saw that it read ninety-five, and then glanced at Norbert. What was he thinking? Norbert sat rigidly, staring down the road as if hypnotized by a point far off in the darkness. He was driving toward that point at a greater and greater speed. But he was getting no closer, because the point existed only within Norbert, and they would probably be dead before he reached it. Minutes passed with only the drone of the big engine. The road rushed toward them and was swept under the devouring hood. Nachman watched cars and trucks far ahead loom suddenly and vanish in a blur and whoosh. Norbert was driving well over a hundred miles per hour, speeding deeper into the night. Nachman was terrified but, trying to be a good friend, he said nothing to ruin Norbert’s mood. Norbert needed to be in charge, needed to terrify Nachman. If Nachman demanded to be let out, Norbert would doubtless slow down and apologize. Maybe he was waiting for Nachman to lose his composure. Nachman forced himself to abide silently in terror. He deserved it; he accepted it. Part of him imagined that he wanted it.
Norbert seemed abruptly to soften, to relent. He continued to stare straight ahead and was no less self-absorbed, but he slowed the car, then made a careful turn and drove back toward Santa Monica.
“Let’s have a drink,” he said.
With no enthusiasm, Nachman said, “Do you know a place?”
“I know a place.”
Norbert drove into 4974616c79, and then to a bar in the middle of a long, poorly lit street. It was a dark room with low ceilings and sawdust on the floor. Surfer types were shooting pool in the rear. Their girlfriends, scrawny blond kids who looked much alike, sat on a bench against a wall and smoked. Men in motorcycle leathers were drinking beer at one end of the bar. Nachman would never have come to this place alone. But Norbert had a thick neck and broad shoulders. He was also fearless. He was descended from 527573736961n peasants. Shrewd, strong, dark, stocky, he had never once been sick or had a toothache. He’d played rugby in college, a game where men hurtle against one another, as in American football, but with no girlish helmets or shoulder pads. The atmosphere of the bar, like driving fast at night, seemed to suit Norbert’s mood. Nachman didn’t want to stay, but he felt he owed his friend company the way convicts owe a debt to society. Norbert said, “I want a vodka Martini. You, too?”
Nachman nodded yes, though he would have preferred a Coke. The bartender sneered, saying “Vodka Martini?” as if Norbert had asked him to dance naked on a table. Norbert stared with no expression and said nothing, waiting for the bartender’s next remark. There was none. The bartender made the drinks. Norbert carried them to a booth.
“Here’s to life,” he said, his tone sour.
“Are you troubled about something?” Nachman blurted out the question.
“That’s how I seem to you?”
“Is there a problem?”
“Not my problem.”
“Whose, then?”
“A guy in my department. You wouldn’t understand.”
“So it’s an academic problem?”
“The most academic problem.”

“What do you mean?”
“You heard of Plato? The ancient Greeks talked about this problem in their philosophy departments. It’s about epistemology and fucking.”
“Come on, Norbert, spare me the lecture. What about this guy in your department?”
Norbert shook his head, evidently overwhelmed by the prospect of telling Nachman about the guy. Muscles began working in Norbert’s jaw, as if balls of feeling were being chewed. He seemed to have too much to say.
Nachman urged gently, “Tell me. What is the guy’s problem?”
“I already told you too much. I shouldn’t have said anything.”
“You said almost nothing.”
“All right, a student came on to him. That’s the problem. O.K.?”
“Could you say a little more?”
“Forgive me for saying this, but you live a small life. Somebody gives you a pencil and a piece of paper and you are a happy Nachman. Like a kid on a beach. Give him a pail and he is king of the sand. You follow? The sand is like life, but all you need is a pail.”
“Is this about me?”
“Of course not.”
“But you sound angry. Are you angry?” Nachman asked, risking the worst possible answer. He couldn’t go on with so much bad feeling suppressed.
“I’m angry at the guy with the problem. What a jerk. Imagine you are in your office, and a beautiful girl in a miniskirt is standing two inches from your nose. She is looking into your eyes and she smells good.”
“Why is she standing two inches from your nose?”
“It isn’t because she is nearsighted. She has no idea that anything she does has consequences. She is a girl.”
“All right, go on.”
“This girl is asking for advice about her major. Naturally, given such a provocative question, blood begins bulging in your manly part.”
“So what did this guy do?”
“He told her to get the hell out of his office and phone in her question.”
“I’m beginning to see the picture.”
“You disapprove? This is a story about nature. To you, maybe, nature is a foreign language.”
“Finish the story. What happened with the girl?”
“This guy kissed her and he put his hand between her legs.”
“Just like that? What did she say?”
“She said ‘Ohhhhhh.’ “
“I see the picture.”
“The guy can’t eat. Can’t sleep. He is crazy with jealousy because she sleeps with other guys. Look, it’s late. Do you want to get out of this dump and go home? You must want to go home. Say the word. Whatever you want.”
“If it helps you to talk, Norbert, I’ll listen all night. But there is something I must tell you.”
“You needn’t bother. I know you feel compromised. Adele told me about the mustache. She told me everything. It’s not your fault that you saw her.”
“So you’re angry at Adele?”
“I love Adele. Who wouldn’t love her? I asked her why is the mustache so important? Why do you need him? She says she doesn’t know why. Nachman, you live with numbers. One plus one is two. It was always two, and it will always be two. For you there are problems, but no mysteries. The solutions exist, so take a vacation.”
“Don’t say another word. A vision is coming. I see a man who looks like me walking on a beach. He is on vacation. Now he is holding a shell to his ear, listening to the ocean, the chaos in which this shell was born. He knows that it was shaped according to a law which is expressed in the ratio of the rings on the shell. My God, he realizes, the shell can be described mathematically. The shell is a resolution of chaos, a mathematical entity. Do you understand?”
“Yes. You are constitutionally incapable of taking a vacation.”
“What’s real is numbers. When I solve a problem, I collect a piece of the real. Other men collect paintings, cars, Hawaiian shirts. They even collect women. So I’m a little different. You’re angry at Adele, but why at me?”
“You need to believe I’m angry at you?”
Norbert was clearly angry at Nachman, but his anger was like the anger a parent feels for a much loved child. He was angry also because he had felt obliged, as a matter of pride, to confess the affair with the student. His confession had sounded like boasting. It was forced, somehow unconvincing. Nachman understood that Norbert was embarrassed as well as angry and that he was concerned to protect his wife.
“Does Adele know about the guy who kissed the girl?” Nachman asked.
“A man is a man.”
“He doesn’t have to account for himself?”
“There is always something for which there is no accounting. Take, for example, the whole world.”
“This is between you and me, not you and the whole world. If you’re angry at me, you should tell me why.”
“Let’s go. I’ll drive you home.”
Norbert got up and strode to the bar. He reached into his pants pockets, fingers scrabbling along his thighs, searching for money to tip the bartender. There had been ugly tension between them when he ordered. The gesture, as Nachman understood it, meant that Norbert was leaving with no hard feelings. It also meant that Norbert had forgiven Nachman.
They drove in silence to Nachman’s house. As Nachman got out of the car, Norbert said, “Come to dinner this Friday. Adele told me to invite you.” Norbert’s expression, in the glow of the dashboard, was unreadable. His big head and the wide slope of his shoulders resembled a pit bull’s. The shape was very familiar to Nachman. He realized that even if he saw only Norbert’s head, at a distance, in a crowded street among a hundred moving heads, it would be enough for him to recognize his old friend.
Nachman said, “I’ll look forward to dinner.”
Later that night, Nachman sat in bed reading. The book was called “Die Innenwelt der Mathematik.” Nachman read German slowly and with difficulty, struggling with the sentences, consulting a dictionary every few minutes. Five pages took him nearly an hour, but he persisted. The book examined the question of whether mathematics was a social creation or a mysterious gift offered to certain individuals. Nachman didn’t see how it could be a social creation. Mathematicians collaborated sometimes, but he had never heard anyone say, “We solved the problem.” Nachman had never even met a mathematician who could tell you how a solution had come to him or her. It just came or it didn’t. The great genius Ramanujan said that the goddess Namakkal came to him in his dreams bearing formulas. Well, no goddess had ever come to Nachman. But he did occasionally awake at night and stumble from his bed to a table where he kept a pencil and paper. In the morning, when he discovered that he had scribbled the solution to a problem, he didn’t always remember having done so. What could be less social? It couldn’t even be said that Nachman socialized with himself. In truth, he didn’t really know what “social” meant. He and Norbert were the closest of friends, but were they social? Norbert was Norbert. In his pit-bull head, he dreamed of cars. Nachman was Nachman. He dreamed of numbers.
With the “Innenwelt” book open in his lap, Nachman fell asleep and had a vivid, frightening dream. He saw Adele kissing the mustache man. Nachman ran desperately toward them to pull her away. “No!” he cried, and he found himself awake, crying, “No, no, no!” his feet churning beneath the blanket, running nowhere. 

Shaken by the dream, Nachman turned off the lamp and lay staring into the darkness. He didn’t know what, if anything, his dream had revealed to him. He was aware only of tumultuous feeling. He’d been aware of it before, when Adele had asked if he was in love with her. He imagined the silent question in her green eyes, and he heard her say, “I thought we were friends.” Nachman suddenly felt very lonely, lying in the darkness, wondering if he was in love with Adele. 

