 FICTION  THE  LAUGHTER  OF  THE  GODS  BY  JOHN  UPDIKE     B  enjamin  Foster-an  ungainly  name,  carrying  to  the  bearer's  own  ears  a  certain  formal,  distant  sound,  as  if  he  were  a  foster  child-took  an  interest,  once  his  father  was  dead,  in  how  his  par-  ents  had  met,  courted,  and,  deepest  in  the  darkness,  conceived  him.  His  mother  told  him,  &quot;We  met  in  the  registration  line  the  very  first  day  of  college,  and  the  T6  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  I1,  2002  second  we  clapped  eyes  on  each  other  we  started  laughing.  And  we  didn't  stop  laughing  for  the  whole  four  years.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  you  date  other  people,  ever?&quot;  &quot;  'Dating'  seems  to  mean  more  now  than  it  did  in  the  twenties,  but  no,  not  re-  ally.  Nobody  else  would  have  anything  to  do  with  us.  That  was  our  feeling.  That  was  our  fear.  We  were  held  together  by  fear,  your  father  and  I,  a  fear  that  nobody  else  would  have  us.  We  were  freaks,  Benjy.&quot;  She  looked  up,  unsmilingbut  mis-  chievous.  Old  age  had  made  her  tongue  even  more  reckless  than  it  had  been,  as  if  testing  the  echo  off  the  walls  of  the  house  where  she  lived  alone,  with  a  deaf  andlame  old  collie.  In  the  past,  their  child,  their  only  child,  had  tried  to  reassure  himself  that  his  parents  had  not  been  freaks  in  col-  lege  by  looking  into  their  yearbook,  called  The  Amethyst,  bound  in  padded  purple,  the  year  1927,  the  college  a  small  Lutheran  one  on  the  banks  of  the  [REDACTED].  It  was  named  Agricola,  after  Johann  Agricola,  an  early  associ-  ate  of  Luther's  and,  in  regard  to  the  issue  of  antinomianism,  an  adversary  for  a  time.  The  senior  photos  and  writeups  were  arranged  not  in  alphabetical  order  but  as  if  at  a  dance,  boy  paired  with  girl  on  facing  pages.  His  parents  were  thus  paired,  as  were  their  faithful  friends  the  Mentzers,  when  Mrs.  Mentzer  was  still  a  Spangler.  Benjamin's  mother,  under  her  maiden  name  of  [REDACTED]  Rahn,  was  shown  with  glossy  thick  bangs.  Else-  where  in  the  yearbook  she  appeared  in  a  riding  outfit  with  boots  and  jodhpurs,  in  a  tubelike  party  dress  and  a  glittering  headband,  and  in  a  middy  blouse  with  dark  neckerchief-the  uniform  of  the  hockey  team,  for  which  she  was  listed  as  co-captain  and  &quot;right  inside.&quot;  She  had  been  class  secretary,  her  young  son  learned,  and  president  of  the  hiking  club,  &quot;a  certain  blue-eyed  damsel  from  Firetown,  [REDACTED],&quot;  one  with  &quot;a  true  innate  love  of  nature&quot;  who  could  &quot;ride  a  horse  at  breakneck  speed.&quot;  The  motto  the  yearbook  editors  assigned  her  was  &quot;Fair  as  a  star.&quot;  His  father's  motto  was  &quot;The  cause  of  wit  in  others,&quot;  his  nickname  was  Foss,  and  his  writeup  was  rather  joshing,  call-  ing  him  a  &quot;ray  of  sunshine&quot;  and  assert-  ing  that  &quot;no  less  than  a  baker's  dozen  of  the  fair  sex  have  fallen  victims  to  his  winning  and  jovial  disposition.&quot;  It  even  more  far-fetchedly  claimed  that  his  na-  tive  town  in  New  Jersey  had  &quot;become  famous  on  account  of  his  brilliance.&quot;  g  Yet  the  photocopied  college  records  that  &amp;  at  some  point  had  been  tucked  into  the  z  yearbook  showed  him  getting  mostly  3  C's  and  even  D's,  where  [REDACTED]  Rahn  ©  pulled  in  A's  and  B's;  she  was  especially  z  adept  in  Latin,  though  Benjamin  had  2  never  heard  perone  :  single  phrase  of  3  it.  The  college's  purpose  seemed  to  be  to  §  produce  ministers  and  marriages;  pages  Z  at  the  end  were  devoted  to  a  diary  re-  8  cording  the  year's  flirtations  and  pair-  ings.  The  lead  item  on  a  page  titled  &quot;Jokes&quot;  was:  IMOGEN  Frosh  (after  attending  one  of  Dr.  Rutter's  hygiene  lectures)-&quot;Some  terrible  things  can  be  caught  from  kissing.&quot;  Second  Frosh-&quot;Right!  You  ought  to  see  the  poor  fish  my  sister  caught.&quot;  &quot;And  [REDACTED];  Benjamin  pointed  out  to  his  mother  when  she  was  in  her  seven-  ties,  &quot;you  and  Daddy  didn't  marry  right  after  college.  You  didn't  marry  for  how  many  years  after  graduation?&quot;  &quot;Two.  We  were  giving  each  other  time  to  get  away,  but  nothing  better  oc-  curred  to  us.  We  hadno  imagination,  Benjy.  We  were  cowards.&quot;  In  trying  to  imagine  their  attraction,  their  need  to  pair  off,  Benjamin  would  begin  with  the  fact  that  they  were  both  tall,  his  father  two  inches  over  six  feet  and  his  mother  no  less  than  five-eight,  awkwardly  large  for  a  woman  of  her  generation.  She  put  on  weight  over  the  years,  but  in  the  yearbook  she  was  slen-  der;  young,  she  looked  like  him,  Benja-  min  thought,  while  as  he  grew  old  he  looked  more  and  more  like  her-faintly  shapeless  in  the  face,  with  a  sly,  flirtatious  expression  to  the  mouth,  as  if  he  were  prepared  to  take  back  whatever  he  said.  From  his  mother  he  had  learned  the  so-  cial  arts  of  teasing  and  sidestepping.  is  parents  loomed  large  in  his  first  memories  of  them-giants  in  their  underwear,  shambling  with  their  white  flanks  and  tufts  of  hair  to  the  bathroom  and  back.  His  little  room  was  tucked  be-  hind  theirs,  at  the  back  of  the  house,  but  he  was  often  in  their  bed,  it  seemed,  sick  or  frightened  of  the  dark.  It  was  a  maple  four-poster,  painted  blue-gray  and  sten-  cilled  with  a  silver  crescent  moon  and  several  clumsy  stars.  Benjamin  and  his  mother  had  done  it  together;  she  had  made  the  stencils  and  he  held  them  while  she  applied  paint.  The  bed  was  too  high  for  Ben  to  climb  into  by  himself  at  first;  once  he  could  hoist  himself  up,  he  was  often  there,  as  at  an  observation  post,  while  his  mother  and  father  moved  about  him  in  semi-nudity,  with  a  docile  mute  air  they  lacked  in  their  clothes.  Until  he  was  old  enough  to  make  the  tub  feel  crowded,  he  took  baths  with  his  mother,  to  save  hot  water  in  those  De-  pression  days.  More  than  sixty  years  later,  he  could  still  recall  the  sight  of  his  legs  receding  in  the  narrow  watery  space  beside  her  legs,  his  feet  squeezed  be-  tween  one  of  her  hips  and  the  porcelain  side  of  the  tub.  To  rinse  his  shampooed  hair  she  would  hold  his  head  under  the  faucet  until  he  thought  he  must  drown.  His  parents,  he  realized  when  he  was  old  enough  to  grasp  some  social  history,  were  cultural  products  of  the  progressive  twenties,  conditioned  to  expect  a  social-  ist  revolution  one  day  and  to  be  un-  ashamed  of  their  bodies.  What  was  nat-  ural,  his  mother  believed,  was  healthy  and  good,  even  though  germs  and  para-  sites  could  be  argued  to  come  from  na-  ture  as  surely  as,  say,  spoonfuls  of  cod-  liver  oil.  The  horrible  lasting  aftertaste  as  the  thick  transparent  liquid  oozed  down  his  esophagus:  that  was  nature  to  little  Benjamin-that  andhay  fever  and  the  cat  catching  robins  at  the  birdbath.  He  would  find  their  feathers  splayed  in  the  grass.  He  was  drawn  entirely  to  the  un-  natural:  to  the  radio,  the  movies,  the  newspapers,  the  blimp  or  skywriting  air-  plane  that  once  in  a  while  appeared  in  the  small-town  sky.  When  he  was  thirteen  they  moved  from  the  small-town  house  toa  farm-  house  ten  miles  away,  the  very  house  in  which  his  mother  had  grown  up.  In  these  smaller  quarters  their  bodies  were  placed  in  closer  proximity.  Benjamin's  grandparents,  whose  house  the  house  in  town  had  been,  occupied  one  room  up-  stairs,  and  his  parents  the  other,  leaving  him  a  bed  in  a  space  next  to  the  stairs;  his  grandfather  would  tug  his  toe  in  the  morning  on  the  way  downstairs  if  it  stuck  out  from  the  blankets.  The  walls  were  thin,  and  he  could  hear  his  parents  murmur,  sigh,  and  turn  over  on  their  creaking  bedsprings.  There  would  be  a  patting  noise  and  his  father's  voice  mak-  ing  a  noise,  in  appreciation,  Benjamin  gathered  in  the  dark,  of  his  mother's  bulk.  &quot;Your  mother  should  have  gone  onto  the  burleycue  stage  instead  of  marrying  me,&quot;  he  would  tell  his  son  as  they  drove  into  town  together.  &quot;She  had  the  figure  for  it,  but  not  the  tempera-  ment.  A  better  man  than  I  would  have  talked  her  into  it.&quot;  It  was  under  the  permissive  blanket,  somehow,  of  their  country  intimacy  that  Benjamin  began  to  masturbate.  It  hap-  pened  one  night  that,  because  of  the  primitive  laundry  facilities  in  the  base-  ment,  he  hadno  clean  pajamas,  and  had  to  go  to  bed  in  his  underwear.  The  unac-  customed  sensation  of  his  skin  on  the  sheets  stirred  him  into  discovery.  A  quite  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  11,  2002  TT  magical  world  of  sensation,  tight  and  fresh,  opened  up;  at  the  climax  he  would  feel  as  if  hewere  somersaulting,  the  wit-  ness  inside  his  head  turned  upside  down.  He  was  too  innocent  to  think  about  the  stains  he  left  on  his  sheets,  and  once  his  mother  did  mention  them  ina  fit  of  temper,  but  the  gapbetween  his  mother  and  those  upside-down  sensations  was  so  vast  his  mind  couldn't  bridge  it  and  went  blank,  so  he  made  no  answer.  He  was  never  able,  in  later  life,  alone  or  on  the  body  of  a  woman,  to  recover  quite  that  initial,  upending  intensity-that  sensation  of  a  sweetening  tightness  yield-  ing,  as  it  were,  a  glimpse  of  icy,  annihi-  lating  light  beneath  his  feet.  enjamin  never  doubted  that  his  mother  loved  him  better  than  she  loved  her  husband.  This  knowledge  gave  him  with  his  father  the  tolerant  good  humor  with  which  one  treats  a  defeated  rival.  When  theold  man  was  dead,  and  Benjamin  middle-aged,  he  tended  to  cut  short,  or  turn  his  back  on,  his  mother's  offered  outpourings  of  marital  resent-  ment.  Even  the  wealth  of  sympathy  cards-Earl  Foster  had  been  a  public-  school  teacher,  a  Sunday-school  teacher,  a  man  of  public  good  works-had  in-  flamed  her  sense  of  grievance,  the  way  being  at  last  rich  aggravates  the  injustice  of  having  been  short-changed  years  ago.  She  let  the  tinted  envelopes  pile  up,  many  unopened,  on  an  old  brass  tray  on  a  side  table,  and  in  the  days  after  the  fu-  neral  made  no  move  to  answer  them:  &quot;What  can  I  say  except  agree  he  was  a  saint?  If  he  was  such  a  saint  what  does  that  make  [REDACTED];  &quot;A  fellow-saint?&quot;  Benjamin  suggested,  wary  of  what  he  had  long  ago  learned  to  recognize  as  his  mother  in  a  dangerous  mood.  &quot;Not  by  a  far  ery.  Have  you  ever  heard  the  expression  'Street  angel,  house  devil&quot;?  That  was  your  daddy.&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  do  devilish?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  want  to  hear  it.  Or  do  you?  Maybe  you  should.&quot;  &quot;No,  you're  right,  Mother,  I  don't.&quot;  She  went  on,  sitting  stubbornly  at  the  kitchen  table  in  her  black  widow's  dress  with  its  green  jade  brooch,  &quot;When  we  first  met,  at  college,  my  dad  still  had  his  money,  and  dressed  me  in  what  was  con-  sidered  high  style,  in  what  to  your  fa-  ther's  eyes  looked  like  too  broad  a  check,  with  too  bright  a  bow  at  the  neck.  He  was  from  New  Jersey,  and  his  people  were  terribly  conservative,  as  you  know-  Presbyterians,  down  to  thebone.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  Though  in  fact  his  father  all     &quot;Waiter-could  we  have  a  little  more  table  over  here?&quot;  the  while  he  knew  him  had  been  a  Lu-  theran  deacon;  he  had  done  his  best  to  blend  into  his  wife's  country.  &quot;That  was  why  he  laughed  at  me;he  said  I  looked  like  a  Ziegfeld  girl  at  a  barn  dance.  And  then,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;the  weekend  we  got  married,  the  last  day  of  August  and  terribly  hot,  Dad  had  come  down  a  peg  or  two  in  the  world,  and  for  some  reason  the  best  thing  I  could  find  to  put  on  was  this  wool  suit  that  turned  out  to  be  suffocating.  I  nearly  fainted  on  the  train,  and  sweated  big  spots  into  it.  My  mother-in-law  was  reported  to  have  said  she  thought  only  colored  people  got  married  in  August.  She  was  sick  with  di-  abetes  already,  the  whole  ceremony  had  been  rushed  together  so  she  wouldn't  hear  of  it  ahead  of  time,  and  when  she  didshe  fainted  dead  away.  At  least  the  other  Fosters  said  she  did.  Your  daddy  was  meant  to  be  the  one  who  didn't  get  married  and  who  supported  their  mother  in  her  sad  decline.  I  realized  when  the  others  told  me-it  must  have  been  my  sister-in-law,  she  was  always  free  with  her  news-I  realized  that  there  were  two  kinds  of  woman,  the  kind  who  really  did  faint  and  those  who  just  nearly  did,  like  me.  When  we  got  into  our  tiny  stateroom  in  the  Pullman,  your  father  said  I  smelled  like  a  pig.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  Benjamin  felt  obliged  to  protest,  at  the  risk  of  tipping  her  into  an  even  more  menacing,  unpredictable  temper.  &quot;He  was  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  drenched,  and  ruined  the  dress.  'Pig'  wasn't  the  word  he  used.  Our  so-called  honeymoon,  that  whole  first  year  when  I  was  following  him  around  with  the  sur-  veying  crew,  all  through  the  coal  regions,  we  kept  staying  in  these  cheap  boarding  houses  that  were  really  cathouses.  You'd  meet  the  girls  on  the  stairs  dragging  up  customers  almost  too  drunk  to  walk.  In  the  daytime  everybody  except  me  was  sleeping.  I  got  a  world  of  reading  done-  all  the  Russians,  Balzac.  I  never  could  taketo  Dickens-too  jokey.  One  of  the  madams  told  me  that  what  you  look  for  in  a  girl  is  a  high  arch  to  the  foot.  That  tells  you  all  you  need  to  know.  I  had  flat  feet,  though  she  was  too  polite  to  point  it  out.  I  couldn't  compete  withyour  father's  ideas  of  those  girls  on  the  stairs-thank  heaven  I  got  pregnant  with  you  and  could  come  home  to  my  father's  house.  I  wish  all  these  people  scribbling  how  your  father  was  such  a  saint  could  have  heard  his  language  when  it  was  just  the  two  of  us  stuck  together,  like  dogs  in  rut.&quot;  She  gestured  with  disgust  at  the  stack  of  sympathy  notes  in  the  brass  tray,  and  when  Benjamin  left  the  next  day  they  had  vanished,  unanswered.  e  had  hungered,  through  his  child-  hood,  for  the  signs  of  happy  union  that  he  saw  in  the  parents  of  his  friends,  a  secret  physical  prosperity  that  oozed  into  society  as  respectable  good  cheer.  His  parents  almost  never  went  out  to  parties,  and  when  they  did  his  father  was  usually  sick  from  the  rich  food  and  un-  accustomed  liquor.  He  had  a  Presbyterian  stomach.  But  their  old  college  friends  the  Mentzers  held  an  annual  New  Year's  party,  which  included  other  couples  mated  at  Agricola,  and  off  his  parents  would  go  into  the  dark  with  what  Ben-  jamin  imagined  as  their  old  collegiate  gaiety.  At  other  reunion  occasions  he  had  heard  Mrs.  Mentzer,  the  once  beautiful  Ethel  Spangler,  call  his  father  &quot;Fossie&quot;  with  a  fond  purr  that  almost  material-  ized  the  unimaginable  conqueror  of  &quot;no  less  than  a  baker's  dozen  of  the  fair  sex.&quot;  It  was  with  a  daughter  of  this  crowd,  not  the  Mentzers'  but  the  Reifsneiders',  that  Benjamin  had  his  first  real  date-  his  first  parentally  approved  appoint-  ment  with  the  fair  sex.  He  was  old  enough  to  drive,  by  a  few  months,  and  went  off  in  a  sports  jacket,  necktie,  and  clean  shirt  carefully  harmonized  by  his  clothes-conscious  mother.  He  and  Ada  went  to  the  movies  and  afterward  to  the  PenSupreme  on  the  Alton  Pike  for  ham-  burgers  and  ice-cream  sodas.  They  at-  tended  different  high  schools  and  didn't  have  much  to  talk  about  except  their  par-  ents  and  the  movie  they  had  just  seen,  yet  they  managed  well  enough,  so  that,  parked  in  front  of  her  dark  house,  he  felt  entitled  to  kiss  her,  which  she  seemed  to  expect.  Her  sallow  face  had  regular  fea-  tures  but  her  lips  seemed  hard  and  cool,  with  a  chill  of  prepared  willingness  he  did  not  feel  he  had  earned.  He  had  felt  clumsy,  overdressed,  and  not  quite  right,  and  assumed  her  sense  of  him  agreed  with  his.  He  never  called  her  again,  though  she  was  pretty  enough.  What-  ever  it  was  that  must  be  discovered,  the  path  was  not  through  his  parents'  youth.  His  mother  in  all  the  years  he  knew  her  had  never  had  a  haircut  or  gone  to  a  hairdresser.  Her  hair  had  been  going  gray  as  long  as  he  could  remember;  she  bundled  it  behind  in  a  bun  held  with  hairpins  that  he  frequently  found  on  the  floor,  when  he  lived  boyishly  closeto  the  carpet.  When  she  was  a  girl,  she  more  than  once  told  him  (she  told  him  every-  thing  more  than  once),  her  mother  would  do  up  her  hair  inbraids  wound  so  tight  on  the  top  of  her  head  that  she  wanted  to  scream.  It  frightened  Benjamin,  at  night,to  see  her  take  out  her  pins  and  let  her  hair  down  andwalk  around  the  up-  stairs  in  her  slip,  looking  like  a  graying  witch,  just  her  nose  and  her  eyes  peeping  out.  Years  later,  in  the  late  sixties,  he  picked  up  a  plump  young  hooker  in  the  bar  of  a  [REDACTED]  hotel.  When  they  were  done,  she  put  her  silvery  minidress  back  on  and  walked  around  his  room  comb-  ing  outher  hair,  long  and  uncontained  in  the  sixties  style,  and  it  came  to  him  that  this  was  how  a  woman  was  supposed  to  look,  like  Eve  or  Mary  Magdalene,  in  an  admonitory  old  woodcut.  There  was  a  hint  of  admonition,  too,  in  the  underwear  drawer  of  his  mother's  bureau,  its  tumble  of  flesh-colored  straps  and  intricate  metal  fastenings  like  a  web  of  apparatus  in  a  torture  chamber;  her  girdle  and  its  stocking  fasteners-flesh-  colored  buttons,  and  wire  loops  shaped  like  snowmen-left  cruel  dents  in  her  flesh,  and  on  one  of  her  feet  the  little  toe  was  quite  bent  over  the  others  by  tight,  pointy  shoes.  At  night,  upstairs  in  the  country  house,  his  father,  describing  the  adven-  tures  of  his  day  in  the  city  world,  would  mumble,  and  she  would  begin  to  laugh,  and  he  would  mumble  again,  and  her  laughter  would  be  goaded  to  a  half-  suppressed  shriek,  an  escape  like  that  of  steam,  ending  in  a  whimper  begging  for  mercy,  and  he  would  mumble  once  more,  and  then  in  the  contagion  of  her  renewed  glee  he,  too,  would  laugh,  a  few  reluctant  chuckles  that  ended  the  story.  In  the  morning,  when  Benjamin  askedher  what  had  been  so  funny,  she  would  say,  &quot;It's  too  hard  to  explain.  It's  not  so  much  what  he  says  as  how  he  says  it  that  sets  me  off  sometimes.  I  don't  believe  he  even  means  to  be  funny  at  first,  his  life  has  been  really  a  sad  one.&quot;  But  his  parents  didn't  radiate  sadness,  though  their  misery  and  helplessness  their  state  of  being  trapped-was  a  fre-  quent  theme  of  their  discourse.  After Benjamin's  grandparents  were  both  dead,  a  new  bed  was  installed  in  the  va-  cated  room,  but  as  far  as  Ben  knew  his  parents  rarely  used  it,  staying  in  the  too  high,  noisy-springed  one  with  the  moon  and  stars  stencilled  onto  the  gray  head-  board.  When,  summers,  he  visited  with  his  growing  family,  there  were  too  many  bodies  for  the  beds,  and  his  parents  would  sleep  on  a  flat  farm  wagon  in  the  barn.  They  made  so  comical  a  sight  there,  uplifted  on  huge  spoked  wheels,  sur-  rounded  by  mounds  of  baled  hay  and  rusted  equipment,  under  motley  layers  of  spare  quilts,  that  his  children  would  run  out  first  thing  in  the  morning,  through  the  dew  of  the  lawn,  to  catch  their  grandparents  still  thus  abed,  and  cheer  themselves  with  the  hilarious,  comfort-  ing  sight.  The  old  couple  would  sit  up  in  greeting,  both  wearing  black  wool  watch-  caps,  donned  for  warmth  and  to  keep  dust  and  dove  droppings  out  of  their  hair.  Pigeons  cooed  and  thrashed  in  the  upper  reaches  of  the  barn.  As  his  mother's  widowhood  stretched  past  a  decade  and  into  its  fifteenth  year,  it  was  as  if  her  son,  who  tried  to  visit  her  for  a  few  days  every  month,  had  always  been  the  only  man  in  her  life.  When  she  spoke  of  her  husband,  it  was  80  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  I1,  2002  in  the  tone  of  startled  reminiscence  with  which  she  might  suddenly  recall  the  dark-eyed  little  Schlouck  boy  with  whom  she  had  walked  to  the  one-room  school  down  the  sandy  dirt  road  that  passed  along  the  edge  of  her  parents'  farm  and  over  the  rise  to  the  main  road.  &quot;My  mother  thought  his  people  were  too  dark,&quot;  she  would  say.  Or,  of  her  hus-  band:  &quot;He  was  so  hipped,  after  his  heart  began  to  act  up,  on  paying  in  his  thou-  sand  to  the  teachers'  retirement  fund.  He  said  he  could  see  daylight  for  the  first  time  in  his  life.&quot;  &quot;Daylight?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  how  much  daylight  he  thought  he  had  left  for  himself.  But  he  wanted  to  leave  me  set.  Just  like  the  driv-  ing.  I  hadn't  driven  since  my  father  sold  their  Biddle  and  moved  into  town.  But  he  forced  me  to  drive,  he  even  had  me  takea  course  from  the  high-school  in-  structor,  and  get  my  license;  he  knew  that  without  it  I  couldn't  hangon  out  here.&quot;  &quot;So  he  was  a  saint,&quot;  said  Benjamin,  ironically.  She  missed  the  irony.  &quot;He  wanted  to  be.  His  mother  had  been  terribly  reli-  gious,  so  full  of  good  works  she  often  forgotto  feed  her  own  family.  But  he  had  these  doubts.  We  all  had,  back  then.  We  read  Mencken,  Shaw,  Wells.  Sinclair  Lewis.  Nothing  was  sacred.  We  laughed  at  everything,  even  at  school,  when  half  the  professors  were  ordained,  and  half  the  boys  were  aimed  that  way.  Of  course,  we  were  young-we  could  afford  to  laugh.  Your  father  was  such  a  kidder,  so  good-humored  around  people  who  didn't  know  him,  it  shocked  me  at  first  when  he'd  get  these  terrible  bouts  of  depres-  sion.  The  blues,'  he  called  them.  He'd  sit  in  a  chair  and  not  move.  Everything  dis-  appointed  him,  especially  me.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  I  don't  think  so!&quot;  The  protest  was  courteous;  Benjamin  had  long  grown  used  to  the  idea  that  his  parents'  mar-  riage  had  been  a  mistake,  partially  re-  deemed  by  his  birth.  &quot;Except  my  mother,&quot;  his  mother  went  on,  looking  past  him  from  within  the  tattered  wing  chair  where  she  spent  most  of  her  days,  rousing  herself  only  to  feed  the  pets  and  change  television  channels.  &quot;He  admired  her.  She  had  a  quickness  I  didn't.  She  could  make  money.  It  had  been  her  management  of  the  farm  that  had  made  my  father  rich,  for  a  while,  until  he  lost  it  on  friends'  advice.  And  he  was  the  only  one  of  my  suitors  she  ever  approved  of.  The  funny  thing  was,  like  Sammy  Schlouck,  he  was  dark.  He  could  take  a  tan,  your  father,  unlike  youand  me.  We  have  the  type  of  skin  that  can  only  burn.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  that's  what  the  attraction  was.  Opposite  skin  types.&quot;  She  ignored  the  idea.  &quot;Was  there  an  attraction?  Or  were  we  just  looking  for  people  who  would  maintain  the  suffer-  ing  that  we  figured  we  deserved?  We  both  felt  embarrassed  at  having  been  born.  My  parents  had  wanted  a  boy,  and  Daddy  was  the  youngest  of  four,  he  al-  ways  felt  he  was  'one  more  mouth  to  feed.  We  hadn't  had  happy  childhoods,  either  of  us.  Now,  you,  you  did.  We  were  both  amazed  to  see  it.  We  didn't  under-  stand  how  you  did  it.&quot;  &quot;I  had  loving  parents,&quot;  Benjamin  gal-  lantly  suggested.  Parents,  he  didn't  say,  who  had  no  one  else  to  love.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  argued,  perversely,  &quot;it  was  something  in  you,  you  produced  it  out  of  yourself,  in  this  miserable  household.  Ethel  Spangler,  after  she  married  How-  ard  Mentzer  but  before  they  had  a  child  of  their  own,  came  to  the  house  for  an  afternoon  and  when  she  left  said  to  me,  'T  hope  this  child  gets  some  love  in  his  life  someday.'&quot;  He  laughed,  incredulous  and  gratified.  &quot;What  athing  to  say!  And  yet  you  and  Daddy  kept  on  with  her  all  those  years.&quot;  &quot;People  used  to  hang  on  to  each  other,&quot;  said  his  mother,  &quot;for  fear  that  was  all  there  was.  Now  they  let  go  and  latch  on  to  somebody  else  just  like  the  first.&quot;  This  was  a  dig;  Benjamin  had  di-  vorced  and  remarried  twice,  but  he  let  it  glide  by.  He  saw  his  mother  as  the  dis-  penser  of  more  truth  than  he  could  bear.  When  he  was  seven  or  eight,  and  gradu-  ated  from  the  shared  bathtub,  he  asked  her,  having  been  invited  to  satisfy  his  cu-  riosity  about  the  facts  of  life,  if  in  a  woman  wee-wee  came  out  of  the  same  place  as  babies  did.  Gently,  frankly,  like  the  progressive  spirit  she  was,  she  an-  swered  him,  but  his  embarrassment  was  so  intense  it  quite  blotted  out  her  answer,  leaving  his  question  to  hang  in  his  mem-  ory  as  a  perpetual  humiliation.  hen  she  died,  a  long  lifetime  welled  up  through  its  leavings.  In  a  small  cedar  chest  opened  by  a  key  in  her  desk  drawer  he  found,  wrapped  in  a  rib  bon  faded  from  red  to  pink,  a  bundle  of  letters  his  father  had  written  to  her  in  the  two  years  between  college  graduation  and  their  marriage.  They  were  ardent,  stiff,  earnest.  Phrases  swam  up  from  the  thin  creased  paper,  scented  not  only  with  cedar  but  with,  Benjamin  imagined,  the  salt  air  of  [REDACTED],  where  his  father  had  spent  eighteen  months:  want  to  do  right  by  everybody  concerned  .  ..  certain  you  are  the  mate  the  good  Lord  meant  me  to  have  .  ..  Ma  has  her  ups  and  downs  and  is  brave  as  hell  .  .  .  Ed  says  the  business  climate  here  is  bound  to  turn  around,  people  always  pull  in  their  horns  after  a  hurricane  ...  miss  you  every  day  and  especially  after  work  .  ..  if  she  takes  a  turn  for  the  worse  ...  be  with  you  on  the  old  sofain  Olinger  and  kick  back  my  heels  and  share  a  good  laugh  .  .  .  almost  chuck  it  all  up  and  head  north  on  the  next  freight  train  but  ..  .  the  docs  say  she  has  the  deter-  mination  of  a  saint  or  a  mule  ...  can  hear  your  voice  assure  as  shooting  ...  the  sunsets  come  on  so  quick  because  of  the  latitude  ...  I'm  still  your  Sheik  and  you  my  Agnes  Ayres  ...  ninety-eight  in  the  shade  over  by  Arcadia  ...  or  die  trying  ...  Benjamin  could  not  bear  to  read  continuously.  It  was  like  his  mother's  too  detailed  answer  to  that  question;  his  mind  shied  away.  His  father's  handwriting  even  then,  before  he  got  his  master's  degree,  had  a  schoolteacher's  patient  legibility;  he  would  lift  his  pen  in  the  middle  of  a  word,form-  ing  each  letter.  When  his  mother  at  last  died,  he  had  come  up  north.  The  salmon  upstream:  or  die  trying.  An  embossed  chocolate  box  shaped  like  a  heart  held  proof  that  his  mother  had  at  least  once  cut  her  hair.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Rahn's  Haircut,&quot;  she  had  written  in  her  little  back-slanted  hand.  &quot;June  18,  1926.  (Moths  ate  some  of  it!)&quot;  So  this  was  its  second  packaging;  bound  with  black  thread,  it  was  so  long  that  Benjamin  didn't  dare  pull  it  from  the  box,  which  smelled  of  cedar  and  of  chocolate.  He  let  the  hair  stay  in  its  thick  coil,  nested  in  tissue  paper.  Its  color  was  a  guileless  pale  shade  of  brown  with  no  gray  in  it-light  brown,  like  that  of  the  girl  in  the  song.  A  country  shade,  he  felt.  Experimentally  he  touched  it,  and  moved  his  hand  quickly  away,  as  if  he  had  presumed  tostroke  a  little  girl's  fine  hair.  And,  folded  at  the  bottom,  under  crocheted  blankets  and  lace  tablecloths  and  an  Agricola  pennant  of  purple  and  gold  felt,  he  found  something  he  could  never  have  given  her  but  his  father  had:  a  varsity  football  sweater,  heavy-knit  of  yellowed  white,  the  chest  stiffened  by  its  broad  letter,  the  sleeves  pinned  up  with  oversized  safety  pins  that  were  still  there,  their  rust  stains  spread  into  the  thick  yarn.  Another  pin,  in  the  back,  took  a  tuck.  Somehow  this  sweater,  and  the  pins  that  had  adjusted  its  fit  on  her  slender  body,  gave  off  heat,  mixed  with  the  cool  of  vanished  winters  mild  moist  [REDACTED]  winters,  cou-  ples  walking  the  campus  with  unbuck-  led  galoshes,  their  laughter  making  small  white  clouds.  His  father  had  come  to  college  on  a  football  scholarship,  though  he  was  too  tall  and  ectomorphic  for  the  game,  and  had  kept  playing  through  a  series  of  broken  noses  that  became  a  feature  of  his  mashed  and  melancholy  face.  Photographs  survived,  of  him  crouching  purposefully  in  the  unpadded  leather  helmet  of  the  time.  Under  the  folded  sweater  was  a  game  program  that  included  Agricola's  sched-  ule;  they  had  played,  amazingly,  Cornell  and  Columbia  and  Rutgers.  The  little  college  had  been  overmatched,  cannon  fodder.  His  father  had  given  his  mother  his  all.  He  had  clothed  her  in  his  pain,  and  their  son  had  tagged  on  behind,  happy  to  be  jealous.  