  Itwas  not  a  hotel.  It  was  a  kind  of  pen-  sion  where,  at  the  most,  there  were  four  or  five  guests.  In  the  morning,  break-  fast  on  a  tray  was  placed  on  a  shelf  in  the  corridor:  bread,  butter,  honey,  and  slices  of  a  sausage  that  is  a  specialty  of  the  city.  Beside  the  tray,  there  were  packets  of  Nescafé  and  an  electric  kettle.  Contact  with  the  severe  and  serene  young  women  who  ran  the  place  was  minimal.  In  the  bedroom,  all  the  furniture,  made  of  either  oak  or  walnut,  was  old  and  must  have  dated  from  before  the  Second  World  War.  This  was  the  only  major  Polish  city  to  have  survived  the  war  without  its  buildings  being  seriously  damaged.  In  the  pension,  there  was  a  sense,  as  in  a  convent  or  a  monastery,  that  people  had  been  contemplatively  looking  through  the  two  windows  which  gave  onto  the  streets  for  generations.  The  building  was  on  Miodowa  Street  in  Kazimierz,  the  old  Jewish  quarter  of  Krakow.  After  breakfast,  I  asked  a  young  woman  behind  the  reception  desk  where  I  might  find  the  nearest  bank  machine.  She  had  a  violin  case  in  her  hands.  She  put  it  down  with  a  show  of  irritation,  and  picked  up  a  tourist  map  of  the  city.  She  marked  in  pencil  where  I  had  to  go.  It's  not  far,  she  said,  sighing  regretfully,  as  if  she  wished  she  were  sending  me  to  the  other  side  of  the  world.  I  bowed  dis-  creetly,  opened  and  shut  the  front  door,  turned  right,  took  the  first  right  again,  and  found  myself  in  the  Plac  Nowy,  an  open  market  square.  I  have  never  been  in  this  square  be-  fore  and  yet  I  know  it  by  heart,  or,  rather,  I  know  by  heart  the  people  who  are  sell-  p  mg  things  in  it.  Some  of  them  have  reg-  $  ular  stalls  with  awnings  to  keep  the  sun  6  off  their  goods.  It  is  already  hot,  hot  with  2  the  blurred,  gnat  heat  of  the  Eastern  8$  European  plains  and  forest.  A  foliage  9  heat  A  heat  without  the  Mediterra-  3  &amp;  nean's  assurance.  Here  nothing  is  cer-  8  tain.  The  nearest  thing  to  certainty  here  2  is  a  grandmother.  FICTION  PASSEUR  BY  JOHN  BERGER  Other  sellers-all  of  them  women-  have  come  from  the  outlying  villages  with  their  own  produce  in  baskets  or  buckets  and  do  not  have  stalls.  They  sit  on  stools  they  brought  with  them.  A  few  stand.  Lettuces,  red  radishes,  horseradishes,  dill  like  green  lace,  small  knobby  cucum-  bers  (which  in  this  heat  grow  in  three  &quot;a,  l  92  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  24  &amp;  31,  2001  days),  new  potatoes  (their  skins  with  a  little  powdered  earth  on  them,  the  color  of  grandchildren's  knees),  celery  with  its  cleansing  toothbrush  smell,  cuttings  of  liveche  (which  the  men,  drinking  vodka,  swear  is  an  incomparable  aphrodisiac),  bunches  of  young  carrots  carried  home  from  school  by  children  with  Polish  blue  eyes,  cut  roses  (mostly  yellow),  cottage  *     cheeses  that  the  rags  pegged  to  the  clotheslinein  the  garden  still  smell  of,  wild  green  asparagus  that  the  children  were  sent  to  look  for  near  the  village  cemetery.  The  women  on  their  stools  sit,  saying  nothing.  They  are  immobile,  expression-  less,  and  rely  on  their  own  simple  pres-  ence  to  guarantee  the  quality  of  what  they  have  brought  to  sell  from  their  own  gardens-surrounded  by  wooden  fences,  behind  two-roomed  houses  made  from  logs,  with  single  stoves  (covered  in  tiles)  between  the  two  rooms.  The  women  live  in  chatas  like  this.  I  wander  among  them.  Different  ages.  Different  builds.  Eyes  of  different  colors.  No  two  women  wearing  the  same  kerchief.  But  each  one  with  her  own  way  of  protecting  or  favoring  the  small  of  her  back  as  she  bends-the  earth  is  such  a  long  way  down-to  cut  chives  or  pull  out  dogtooth  weed.  When  they  were  younger,  their  hips  absorbed  the  shock  of  events;  now  itis  their  shoulders.  I  peer  into  the  basket  of  a  woman  who  is  standing;  she  has  no  stool.  The  basket  is  full  of  pale-golden  pastries.  They  look  like  carved  chessmen.  Each  one  is  about  six  inches  high.  I  pick  up  a  castle  and  realize  my  mis-  take.  It  is  too  heavy  to  be  made  of  pastry.  I  glance  up  at  the  face  of  the  woman.  Sixty  years  old,  blue-green  eyes.  She  looks  back  at  me  severely,  as  if  at  an  idiot.  Oscypek,  she  says  slowly.  It's  the  name  of  a  cheese  made  from  the  milk  of  moun-  tain  sheep  and  smoked  in  the  chimney     between  the  two  rooms.  I  buy  three.  Then,  with  the  smallest  gesture  of  her  head,  she  suggests  I  get  on  my  way.  In  the  center  of  the  square  stands  a  low  building,  divided  into  small,  round  shops.  There  is  a  barber's  with  one  chair.  Several  butchers.  A  grocer's  where  you  can  buy  pickled  cabbage  from  a  barrel.  A  kitchen  with  a  cast-iron  stove  where  you  can  get  soup,  and,  outside  on  the  paving  stones,  three  wooden  tables  with  benches.  At  one  of  them,  a  man  with  slightly  dejected  shoulders  is  sit-  ting.  He  has  long  hands  and  a  high  fore-  head,  which  seems  even  higher  because  he  is  going  bald.  His  spectacles  have  thick  lenses.  I  know  this  man.  Although  he  is  not  Polish,  he  looks  at  home  here  this  morning.  He  has  a  bowl  of  borscht.  Ken  was  born  in  New  Zealand  and  died  there.  I  sit  on  the  bench  opposite  him.  This  man,  sixty  years  ago,  shared  with  me  what  he  knew,  although  he  never  told  me  how  he'd  learned  it.  He  never  spoke  about  his  childhood  or  his  parents.  I  had  the  im-  pression  he  left  New  Zealand  for  Europe  when  he  was  young,  before  he  was  twenty.  Distances  never  daunted  him.  Wel-  lington,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Nor-  way,  537061696e,  and,  at  some  moment,  I  think,  Burma  or  496e646961.  He  earned  his  living,  variously,  as  a  journalist,  a  schoolteacher,  a  dance  instructor,  an  extra  in  films,  a  gigolo,  a  bookseller  without  a  shop,  a  cricket  umpire.  In  [REDACTED],  he  drew  cartoons  for  anewspaper.  I  remember  distinctly  the  kind  of  toothbrushes  he  liked-ones  with  extra-long  handles-and  the  size  of  his  shoe  (44).  He  pushes  his  bowl  of  soup  toward  me,  then  takes  a  handkerchief  from  his  trouser  pocket,  wipes  the  spoon,  and  hands  it  to  me.  I  recognize  the  black  tar-  tan  handkerchief.  The  soup  is  a  clear,  deep-red  vegetable  borscht,  with  a  little  apple  vinegar  added  to  it,  Polish  style,  to  counter  the  natural  sweetness  of  the  beetroot.  I  eat  some  and  push  the  bowl  back  and  hand  him  the  spoon.  No  word  has  passed  between  us.  From  the  bag  slung  over  my  shoulder  I  take  out  a  sketchbook.  I  want  to  show  him  a  drawing  I  made  yesterday,  from  Leonardo's  &quot;Lady  with  an  Ermine,&quot;  in  the  Czartoryski  Museum.  He  studies  it,  his  heavy  glasses  slipping  a  little  down  his  nose.  Pas  mal!  Yet  isn't  shetoo  upright?  Isn't  she  in  fact  leaning  more  as  she  takes  the  corner?  When  I  hear  him  spealk:-the  man-  ner  is  so  indisputably  his-my  love  for  him  returns,  my  love  for  his  journeys,  his  appetites  (which  he  set  out  to  satisfy  and  never  suppressed),  his  weariness,  his  sad  curiosity.  Yes,  a  little  too  upright,  he  repeats.  Never  mind.  Every  copy  has  to  change  something,  doesn't  it?  And  my  love  forhis  lack  of  illusions.  Being  without  illusions,  he  avoided  disillusionment.  When  I  first  met  him,  I  was  eleven  and  he  was  forty.  For  the  next  six  or  seven  years,  he  was  the  most  influential  person  in  my  life.  It  was  with  him  that  I  learned  to  cross  frontiers.  In  French  there  is  the  word  passeur-often  translated  as  &quot;Ferryman&quot;  or  &quot;smuggler,&quot;  but  with  the  connotation  of  aguide  and  something  of  the  mountains.  He  was  my  passewr:  Ken  flips  through  the  sketchbook.  He  had  deft  fingers  and  could  palm  cards  skillfully.  He  puts  a  finger  between  two  pages  and  stops.  Another  copy?  Antonello  da  Messina?  &quot;Dead  Christ  Supported  by  Angel,&quot;  I  say.  Antonello,  he  says.  If  I  could  choose  to  have  my  portrait  painted  by  any  artist  in  history,  I'd  choose  him.  He  painted  as  though  printing  words.  Everything  he  did  had  that  kind  of  coherence  and  au-  thority,  and  it  was  during  his  lifetime  that  the  first  printing  presses  were  invented.  He  looks  down  again  at  the  sketch.  Not  a  trace  of  pity  on  the  angel's  face,  he  says,  only  tenderness.  You've  caught  that  tenderness,  but  not  the  gravity,  the  gravity  of  the  first  printed  words.  That's  gone  for  good.  I  did  it  last  year  in  the  Prado.  Until  the  guards  came  to  chuck  me  out.  Anyone  hasthe  right  to  draw  there,  no?  Yes,  but  not  to  sit  on  the  floor.  Then  why  didn't  you  draw  standing  up!  When  Ken  says  this,  in  the  Plac  Nowy,  I  see  him,  tall,  stooped,  standing  on  the  edge  of  a  cliff,  drawing  the  sea.  Somewhere  near  Brighton,  the  summer  of  1939.  He  always  had  in  his  pocket  a  large  black  graphite  pencil  called  a  Black  Prince,  which,  instead  of  being  round,  was  rectangular,  like  a  carpenter's  pencil.  I'm  too  old  now,  I  tell  him,  to  draw  for  a  longtime  standing  up.  He  puts  down  the  sketchbook  abruptly.  He  abhorred  self-pity.  The  weakness,  he  said,  of  many  intellectuals.  Avoid  it!  His  only  moral  imperative.  He  fingers  one  of  the  cheeses  I  have  bought.  Her  name  is  Jagusia,  he  says,  nod-  ding  in  the  direction  of  the  woman  with  the  basket,  and  she  comes  from  the  mountains,  in  Podhale.  Her  two  sons  work  in  [REDACTED].  Black-market  labor.  Hard  for  them  to  get  work  permits;  they're  forced  to  be  illegal.  Néammoins,  they're  building  a  house,  one  larger  than  Jagusia  has  even  dreamt  of,  with  three  stories  and  not  two  rooms  but  seven!  Néanmoins!  French  words  crop  up  in  his  sentences.  He  had  lived  in  [REDACTED]  be-  fore  coming  to  [REDACTED],  and  the  French  years  were  the  happiest  of  his  life-he  sometimes  wore  a  black  beret.  Yet  Jagusia  will  refuse,  he  prophe-  sies,  to  move  out  of  her  hata,  with  the  cheesecloths  on  the  line  in  the  garden.  This  was  the  manwho  made  me  be-  lieve  that  together  we  could  find  the  magic  in  any  city.  hat  abouta  beer?  he  says,  pointing  toward  the  far  end  of  the  market.  The  cans  of  beer  arein  a  stall  with  dried  beans,  mustard,  biscuits,  honey  bread,  and  tinned  meats.  There  is  also  an  open  chessboard  and  a  game  in  progress.  The  grocer  behind  the  stand  is  playing  black,  and  a  man  who  looks  like  a  pass-  erby  is  playing  white.  Several  pawns,  a  knight,  and  a  bishop  have  been  taken.  I  ask  for  two  beers.  White  moves  his  queen  and  says,  &quot;Check!&quot;  Black  takes  my  money  and  moves  a  knight.  The  queen  withdraws.  A  woman  customer  asks  for  some  of  the  honey  bread,  which  has  sweet  can-  died  oranges  buried  in  it.  Black  cuts  the  slices  and  weighs  them.  White  makes  a  careless  move  and  re-  alizes  too  late  what  he's  done.  He  swal-  lows  hard.  Black  takes  a  castle.  Krakow's  Jewish  ghetto,  on  the  other  side  of  the  Vistula,  is  less  than  ten  min-  utes  from  here.  The  ghetto,  an  area  of  a  small  city  block,  was  sealed  off  by  walled-up  buildings,  blockades,  and  barbed  wire,  and,  six  months  later,  eigh-  teen  thousand  people  were  imprisoned  there.  Thousands  died  from  disease  and  malnutrition  each  month.  Only  those  fit  enough  to  work  as  slave  labor  in  the  94  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  24  &amp;  31,  2001  German  armament  or  clothing  factories  were  permitted  to  leave  for  their  shifts.  All  other  trespassers  outside  the  ghetto  were  shot,  as  were  any  Poles  who  helped  them  or  hid  them.  Tyskie!  Ken  applauds  when  I  return  to  the  table.  You  chose  the  best  beer!  Early  training,  I  say.  He's  called  Zedrek,  Ken  says,  the  man  you  were  watching  playing  chess.  He  plays  with  Abram,  the  grocer,  at  least  once  a  week.  Zedrek  could  play  a  good  game  if  he  hadn't  started  drinking  vodka  so  early.  I  don't  think  he  can  stop,  though.  Abram  was  a  small  boy  in  the  war  and  survived  in  hiding.  en  taught  me  most  of  the  games  I  know:  chess,  snooker,  darts,  bil-  Lards,  poker,  table  tennis,  backgammon.  Chess  we  played  in  his  bed-sit,  the  oth-  ers  in  bars.  [REDACTED],  which  I  had  learned  before  I  met  him,  we  played  with  my  parents  or  when  we  got  invited  to  some-  body's  house,  which  was  not  often.  He  was  a  replacement  teacher  in  the  lunatic  boarding  school  into  which  I  had  been  bundled.  In  front  of  the  school  as-  sembly-fifty  bare-kneed,  cowed  boys,  each  trying  to  find,  unaided,  a  sense  to  Tife-the  apoplectic  headmaster  was  in  a  rage  andhad  thrown  a  dining-room  chair  at  the  Latin  teacher,  and  Ken,  who  happened  to  be  between  them,  caught  it  in  mid-flight  with  one  hand.  That  was  how  I  first  noticed  him.  He  set  the  chair  down,  put  his  feet  up  on  it,  and  the  head-  master,  undeterred,  continued  with  his  harangue.  This  was  1937.  On  the  final  day  of  the  term,  I  invited  him  to  stay  with  me  and  my  parents.  They  had  a  caravan  on  a  beach,  near  Selsey  Bill  in  Sussex.  Why  not?  he  said.  And  he  came  for  a  week.  My  father  was  pleased:  with  Ken,  we  were  a  foursome,  and  we  could  play  bridge  together.  Ken  shuffled  the  pack  and  the  cards  cascaded  between  his  two  hands  held  far  apart.  Sometimes  the  cascade  looked  like  a  moving  staircase-an  escalator-or  a  playing-cards  ladder.  Once,  later,  he  said  to  me  when  I  was  complaining  of  not  being  ableto  go  to  sleep:  Imagine  you're  shuffling  a  pack  of  cards!  That's  how  I  go  to  sleep.  My  father  was  a  good  player,  and  he  enjoyed  the  game.  The  game  also  al-  lowed  him  to  recall  certain  easy  mo-  ments  with  thedead,  who  otherwise  haunted  him.  When  the  four  of  us  were  playing  in  Selsey,  six  diamonds  doubled  took  precedence  over  five  mortars  lost.  He  was  playing  with  us  and  with  a  roll  of  infantry  officers  of  whom  he  was  the  only  survivor  after  four  years  in  the  trenches  near  Vimy  Ridge  and  Ypres.  My  mother  recognized  that  Ken  be-  longed  to  what  for  her  was  the  specialcat-  egory  of  people  &quot;who  loved  [REDACTED].&quot;  She  foresaw,  I'm  sure,  that  the  passeur  was  going  to  take  me  a  long  way  away  and,  at  the  same  time,  she  didn't  doubt  that  I  was,  more  or  less,  capable  of  looking  after  my-  self.  On  Monday,  the  wash  day,  she  offered  to  launder  and  iron  Ken's  clothes,  and  he,  in  turn,  bought  her  a  bottle  of  Dubonnet.  I  accompanied  Ken  to  bars.  I  was  un-  derage,  but  nobody  objected.  It  wasn't  my  size  or  looks  but  my  certainty.  Don't  look  back,  he  had  told  me,  don't  doubt  for  a  moment-just  be  surer  of  yourself  than  they  are.  Once,  when  another  drinker  started  swearing  at  me,  telling  me  to  get  my  bloody  mouth  out  of  his  sight,  I  broke  down.  Ken  put  his  arm  around  me  and  took  me  straight  into  the  street.  This  was  in  wartime  [REDACTED],  and  there  were  no  lights.  We  walked  a  long  way  in  silence.  If  you  have  to  ery,  he  said  finally,  and  some-  times  you  can't  help  it,  you  have  to  cry  af-  terward,  never  during!  Remember  this.  Unless  you're  with  those  who  love  you  and  only  those  who  love  you-and  in  that  case  you're  already  lucky,  for  there  are  never  many  who  love  you-then  you  can  cry  during.  Otherwise  you  cry  afterward.  Except  for  his  shortsightedness,  he  moved  like  an  athlete.  Not  me.  I  was  clumsy,  overhasty,  cowardly,  with  almost  no  poise.  I  had  something  else,  though,  a  kind  of  determination,  which,  given  my  age,  was  startling.  I  would  wager  all!  And  for  the  energy  of  that  rashness  he  over-  looked  the  rest.  And  the  gift  of  his  love  was  the  gift  of  sharing  with  me  what  he  knew,  almost  everything  he  knew,  irre-  spective  of  my  age  or  his.  For  such  a  gift  to  be  possible,  the  giver  and  the  receiver  need  to  be  equal,  and  we,  this  strange  incongru-  ous  couple,  somehow  became  equal.  Nei-  ther  of  us  understood  how  this  happened.  Now  we  do.  We  were  foreseeing  this  mo-  ment,  here  in  the  Plac  Nowy.  We  antici-  pated  my  being  an  old  man  and  his  be-  ing  dead,  and  this  allowed  us  to  be  equal.  He  puts  his  long  hand  around  the      *-  *~*&quot;  [F  Ss  S  hana  haro  Highlight  the  battleship-gray.&quot;  can  of  beer  and  clinks  it  against  mine.  He  always  preferred  gestures  to  spo-  ken  words.  Perhaps  as  a  result  of  his  re-  spect  for  silent,  read  words.  He  studied  in  libraries,  and  yet,  for  him,  the  immediate  place  for  a  book  was  a  raincoat  pocket.  And  the  books  he  pulled  out  of  that  pocket!  He  did  not  hand  them  to  me  di-  rectly.  He  said  the  name  of  the  author  and  the  title,  and  placedthe  bookon  the  cor-  ner  of  the  mantelpiece  in  his  bedroom.  Sometimes  there  were  several,  sothat  I  might  choose.  George  Orwell,  &quot;Down  and  Out  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]&quot;;  Marcel  Proust,  &quot;Swann's  Way&quot;;  Katherine  Mansfield,  &quot;The  Garden  Party&quot;;  Laurence  Sterne,  &quot;The  Life  and  Opinionsof  Tristram  Shandy,  Gen-  tleman'&quot;;  Henry  Miller,  &quot;Tropic  of  Cancer.&quot;  Neither  of  us  believed  in  literary  explana-  tions.  I  never  once  asked  him  about  what  I  couldn't  understand.  He  never  referred  to  what,  given  my  age  and  experience,  I  might  find  difficult.  Sir  Frederick  Treves,  &quot;The  Elephant  Man  and  Other  Remi-  niscences.&quot;  James  Joyce,  &quot;Ulysses&quot;  (an  En-  glish  edition  published  in  [REDACTED]).  There  was  a  tacit  belief  between  us  that  we  could  learn-or  should  try  to  learn-how  to  live  partly  from  books.  Oscar  Wilde,  &quot;De  Profundis.&quot;  St.  John  of  the  Cross.  When  I  returned  a  book,  I  felt  closer  to  him.  Books  converged  us.  Ken  was  the  first  person  to  talk  to  me  about  the  Spanish  Civil  War.  Open  wounds,  he  said,  nothing  can  stanch  them.  I  had  never  heard  the  word  &quot;stanch&quot;  pro-  nounced  out  loud  before.  We  were  at  that  moment  playing  billiards  in  a  bar.  Don't  forget  to  chalk  the  cue,  he  added.  He  read  to  me  in  Spanish  a  poem  by  Garcia  Lorca,  who  had  been  shot  four  years  earlier,  and,  when  he  translated  it,  I  believed,  in  my  fourteen-year-old  mind,  that  I  knew-except  for  a  few  details  what  life  was  about  and  what  had  to  be  risked  to  live  it.  Two  girls  in  long  white  lace  dresses  are  crossing  the  far  end  of  the  Plac  Nowy.  They  are  ten  or  eleven  years  old,  but  they  are  both  tall  for  their  age.  La  semaine  blanche,  Ken  says.  Last  Sun-  day,  kids  across  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  took  their  First  Communion.  And  every  day  this  week  they  do  their  bestto  get  to  church  and  take  Communion  once  more,  partic-  ularly  the  girls,  who  then  get  to  wear  their  white  Communion  dresses  another  time.  The  two  girls  walk  side  by  side,  seyth-  ing  down  the  men  whose  glances  they  are  attracting.  They've  become  Hon-  orary  Women.  As  they  cross  the  square,  they  are  stepping  out  of  their  childhoods.  They're  going  to  the  Church  of  Cor-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  24  &amp;  31,  2001  95  pus  Christi,  Ken  says.  All  the  girls  of  Krakow  want  to  take  their  First  Com-  munion  at  the  Church  of  Corpus  Christi,  because  the  Communion  dresses  there  have  the  best  cut.  A  woman  carrying  a  basket  of  wild  sorrel  passes  our  table.  Could  you  make  us  some  sorrel  soup?  Ken  asks  me.  We  could  have  it  tomor-  row  instead  of  borscht.  I  guess  so.  With  eggs?  No,  that  I  don't  know.  Well,  he  shuts  his  eyes,  you  prepare  the  soup,  serve  it,  and  in  each  bowl  you  put  a  hot  hard-boiled  egg.  You  then  cut  the  egg  into  slices,  and  eat  it  with  the  green  soup.  The  mixture-sharp  green  acidity  and  the  round  comfort  of  the  egg-reminds  you  of  something  extraordinary  and  far  away.  Of  home?  Certainly  not,  not  even  for  the  Poles.  Of  what,  then?  Of  survival,  perhaps.  It  seems  to  me  that  Ken  always  lived  in  the  same  bed-sit.  In  reality,  he  moved  often,  but  the  moves  were  made  when  I  was  away  at  school  and,  on  returning  and  going  to  see  him,  I  would  find  his  same  few  possessions  piled  up  on  a  sim-  ilar  table  at  the  foot  of  a  similar  bed,  be-  hind  a  door  with  a  key,  which  opened  onto  a  staircase,  overlooked  by  a  land-  lady,  always  worrying  in  the  same  way  about  the  lights  being  left  on.  Ken's  room  had  a  gas  fire  and  a  tall  window.  On  the  mantelpiece  were  the  books.  On  the  table  by  the  window  was  a  large  portable  wireless(the  word  &quot;radio&quot;  was  rarely  used).  September  1st.  I  remember  that  we  were  both  listen-  ing:  The  Panzer  Divisions  of  the  Wehr-  macht  invaded  [REDACTED]  without  warning  this  morning  at  dawn.  In  the  room's  wardrobe  he  kept  not  only  clothes  but  food:  oatmeal  biscuits,  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  pineapple,  coffee.  At-  tached  to  the  gas  fire  was  a  ring  for  heat-  ing  water  in  a  saucepan  that  he  kept  on  the  windowsill.  The  room  smelled  of  cig-  arettes,  fruit,  and  lighter  fluid.  The  toilet  and  washbasin  were  on  the  landing.  It  was  either  on  the  landing  above  or  the  one  below;  I  tended  to  forget,  and  he  would  have  to  shout  after  me:  Up,  not  down!  His  two  suitcases,  which  he  left  open  on  the  floor,  were  never  entirely  unpacked.  (At  that  time,  nothing  was  unpacked,  even  in  people's  heads.  Everything  was  in  storage  or  in  transit.  Dreams  were  kept  on  luggage  racks.)  In  one  of  his  suitcases  there  was  a  jar  of  honey  from  Brittany,  a  dark  fisherman's  sweater,  a  volume  of  Baudelaire,  and  a  table-tennis  paddle.  Give  you  a  lead  of  fifteen  plus  service,  he  proposed.  Ready?  Serve!  Fifteen-love.  Fifteen-one.  Fifteen-two.  Fifteen-three.  That  was  in  1940.  By  1941  he  was  still  beating  me  two  games  out  of  three,  but  he  was  no  longer  giving  me  a  lead.  He  was  working  then  in  some  ca-  pacity  for  a  foreign  service  at  the  BBC     &quot;Poor  Zachary.  A  meteorite  squashed  his  swing  set.&quot;  (about  which  he  would  say  nothing).  He  often  came  back  to  the  room  after  work  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morning.  The  bedcover  was  damask.  In  the  mornings,  we  took  breakfast  in  a  barricaded  café  near  Gloucester  Road.  Food  was  rationed.  Those  without  a  sweet  tooth  gave  their  sugar  rations  to  others.  Ken  and  I  drank  tea,  for  it  was  better  than  the  coffee  essence.  Over  breakfast  we  read  newspapers.  Each  con-  sisted  of  four  or,  at  the  most,  six  pages.  September  15,  1941:  Leningrad  cut  off  by  German  troops.  February  12,  1942;  Three  German  cruisers  made  it  through  the  Strait  of  [REDACTED].  May  28th:  The  Wehrmacht  has  taken  two  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  Soviet  prisoners  at  Kharkov.  The  Nazis,  Ken  said,  are  making  the  same  mistake  as  Napoleon.  They  under-  estimate  the  power  of  General  Winter.  He  was  right,  of  course.  In  late  November,  General  Paulus  and  his  Sixth  Army  were  surrounded  at  Stalingrad,  and  in  Febru-  ary  they  surrendered  to  General  Zhukov.  One  morning  in  April,  1943,  Ken  told  me  about  a  [REDACTED]  radiobroadcast,  made  the  day  before,  by  General  Sikorski,  the  Polish  Prime  Minister  in  exile,  who  was  appealing  to  Poles  in  [REDACTED]  to  support  the  ongoing  uprising  in  the  [REDACTED]  ghetto.  The  ghetto  was  being  systematically  an-  nihilated.  Sikorski  said  (I  remember  Ken's  speaking  slowly),  'The  greatest  crime  in  the  history  of  mankind  is  taking  place.&quot;  Only  during  moments  when  you  found  yourself  thinking  about  nothing  did  the  enormity  of  what  was  happening  make  itself  felt.  The  enormity  was  then  present  in  the  air,  under  the  spring  sky,  addressing  a  seventh  sense  which  I  still  cannot  name.  Beneath  the  damask  bedcover,  during  nights  punctuated  by  air-raid  sirens,  I  sometimes  felt  a  burning  in  Ken's  erect  member.  The  tumescence  came  unasked  and  waited  like  a  pain,  a  pain  that  had  to  be  stanched,  low  down  in  the  middle  of  his  long  body.  Soon  afterward,  in  the  bed  damp  with  spunk  and  tears  from  his  eyes  without  glasses,  sleep  came  swiftly  to  the  two  of  us.  Rippled  sleep,  like  sand,  when  the  tide  was  far  out.  Let’s  go  and  see  the  pigeons,  Ken  says,  polishing  the  thick  lenses  of  his  glasses  with  his  tartan  handkerchief.  We  walk  toward  the  northern  end  of     the  market.  The  sun  is  hot.  One  more  early-summer  morning  added  to  the  pile  on  the  century's  desk.  We  watch  two  butterflies,  which  came  to  the  center  of  the  city  with  the  garden  vegetables,  fly  upward  in  a  spiral.  The  clock  on  the  city  cathedral  strikes  eleven.  Every  day,  hundreds  of  Polish  visi-  tors  climb  the  spiral  stone  staircase  in  the  bell  tower  of  the  cathedral  to  touch  the  massive  tongue  of  the  Zygmunt  bell,  cast  in  1520  and  weighing  eleven  tons.  Touching  the  bell,  itis  said,  brings  luck  in  love.  We  passa  man  selling  hair  dryers.  A  hundred  and  fifty  zlotys  each;  they  have  probably  been  stolen.  He  is  demonstrat-  ing  how  to  use  one  and  calls  out  to  a  passing  child,  Come  here,sweetie,  and  I'll  make  you  look  cool!  The  girl  laughs,  agrees,  and  her  hair  is  fluffed  up,  billowing.  SZczna!  she  cries.  I'm  beautiful.  Ken  translates,  laughing.  Farther  on,  I  seea  crowd  of  men  huddled  together.  They  are  so  still  that  they  seem  to  be  listening  to  music.  When  we  get  closer,  I  see  that  in  fact  they  are  gathered  around  a  table  on  which  there  are  pigeons  in  wooden  pens,  five  or  six  to  a  cage,  maybe  a  hundred  of  them.  The  birds  vary  in  plumage  and  size,  although  all  have  a  glint  of  bluish  slate  in  their  col-  oring.  In  this  glint  there  is  something  of  the  sky  above  Krakow.  The  pigeons  on  the  table  look  like  sky  samples  brought  back  to  earth.  Nobody  knows,  Ken  says,  how  hom-  ing  pigeons  find  their  way  home.  When  they  are  flyingin  clear  weather,  they  can  see  thirty  kilometres  ahead,  yet  this  doesn't  explain  their  unerring  sense  of  direction.  During  the  siege  of  [REDACTED]  in  1870,  a  million  messages  to  the  city's  in-  habitants  were  delivered  by  fifty  pigeons.  It  was  the  first  time  ever  that  micropho-  tography  was  used  on  that  sort  of  scale.  The  letters  were  all  reduced,  so  that  hun-  dreds  could  fit  on  a  tinyfilm  weighing  only  a  gram  or  two.  Then,  when  the  pi-  geons  arrived,  the  letters  were  enlarged,  copied  out,  and  delivered.  Collodion  film  and  carrier  pigeons-strange  how  things  come  together!  Some  birds  have  been  taken  out  of  their  cages  and  are  being  expertly  exam-  ined  by  pigeon  fanciers.  The  birds  are  lightly  pinched  between  two  fingers,  the  length  of  their  legs  is  measured,  the  flat  tops  of  their  heads  lightly  pressed  by  a  thumb,  their  flight  feathers  extended,  and  all  the  while  they  are  being  held  tightly  against  the  men's  chests,  like  trophies.  Ken  takes  my  arm.  It's  hard,  don't  you  think,  to  imagine  sending  news  of  a  total  catastrophe  by  carrier  pigeon?  The  mes-  sage  could  announce  a  defeat,  or  it  could  be  an  appeal  for  help,  but  in  that  gesture  of  throwing  the  pigeon  up  into  the  sky,  so  that  it  heads  for  home,  there  is  in-  evitably  a  hope,  isn't  there?  Sailors  from  ancient  [REDACTED]  used  to  release  pigeons  from  their  boats  on  the  high  seas  to  an-  nounce  to  their  families  that  they  were  on  their  way  home.  I  wonder  how  the  chess  game  is  going,  I  say.  The  two  of  us  stroll  to  the  other  end  of  the  market.  There  are  sixteen  pieces  left  on  the  board.  Zedrek  has  king,  bishop,  and  five  pawns.  He  is  looking  up  at  the  sky,  asif  seeking  inspiration.  Abram  looks  at  his  watch.  Twenty-  three  minutes!  he  announces.  Chess  is  not  a  game  you  can  hurry,  a  customer  comments.  He  has  one  good  move,  whispers  Ken,  and  I  bet  he's  not  going  to  see  it.  Move  the  bishop  to  C5,  is  that  it?  No,  you  idiot,  his  king  to  F1.  Tell  him,  then.  Dead  men  don't  move  pieces!  Hearing  him  say  these  words,  I  suffer  his  death.  He,  meanwhile,  takes  his  head  in  his  hands,  and  with  them  he  turns  the  head  left  and  right,  as  if  it  were  a  searchlight.  He  waits  for  me  to  laugh,  as  I  often  did  atthis  clown  act  of  his.  He  doesn't  see  my  anguish.  I  do  laugh,  and  I  suffer  his  death.  For  the  first  time.  hen  I  came  out  of  the  Army  at  the  end  of  thewar,  he  had  disap-  peared.  I  wrote  to  him  at  the  last  address  I  had,  and  there  was  no  reply.  A  year  later,  he  sent  a  postcard  to  my  parents  the  postcard  came  from  somewhere  im-  probable,  like  [REDACTED]  or  Jersey-asking  whether  we  might  all  spendChristmas  together,  which  we  did.  He  came  with  a  woman,  a  war  photographer  who  was,  I  think,  Czech.  We  played  Christmas  games,  we  laughed  a  lot,  he  teased  my  mother  about  buying  all  the  food  on  the  black  market.  Between  the  two  of  us  there  was  the  same  complicity.  Neither  of  us  looked  away  or  took  the  slightest  step  back.  We  felt  the  same  love:  simply  the  circum-  stances  had  changed.  The  passeur  had  delivered  his  charge;  the  frontiers  were  crossed.  The  years  passed.  The  last  time  I  saw  him,  we  drove  all  night  with  a  friend  of  mine,  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED].  In  a  for-  est  near  Chiatillon-sur-Seine,  we  heard  Coltrane  playing  &quot;My  Favorite  Things&quot;  on  the  radio.  It  was  during  this  journey  that  Ken  told  me  he  was  returning  to  New  Zealand.  He  was  then  sixty-five.  I  didn't  ask  him  why,  because  I  didn't  want  to  hear  him  say:  To  die.  Instead,  I  made  believe  that  he  would  come  back  to  Europe.  To  which  he  re-  plied,  The  best  thing  there,  John,  down  under,  is  the  grass!  There's  no  grass  as  green  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  He  said  this  forty  years  ago.  I  never  knew  ex-  actly  when  or  how  he  died.  In  the  Plac  Nowy,  among  the  stolen  hair  dryers,  the  honey  cake  with  candied  orange  peel,  Jagusia  with  her  basket  now  almost  empty,  the  black  cherries  that  have  to  be  sold  and  eaten  quickly  be-  cause  they  won't  last,  the  barrel  of  salted  herring,  the  voice  of  Ewa  Demarczyk  on  a  CD,  singing  one  of  her  defiant  songs,  I  suffer  his  death  for  the  first  time.  I  do  not  even  glance  back  at  where  Ken  is  standing,  for  he  will  not  be  there.  Something  pulls  me  back  to  the  pigeons.  I  walk  alone,  past  the  barber's  and  the  soup  kitchen  and  the  women  sitting  on  their  stools.  When  I  arrive,  a  man  turns  toward  me  and,  as  if  guessing  my  distress-is  there  another  country  in  the  world  more  habitually  accustomed  to  coming  to  terms  with  that  emotion?-he  hands  me,  without  smiling,  the  carrier  pigeon  he  is  holding.  Its  feathers  feel  slightly  damp-like  satin.  The  small  ones  on  its  breast  have  a  parting  in  the  middle,  as  on  an  owl.  It  ra-  diates  heat  yet  its  feathers  are  cool.  It  weighs  nothing  for  its  size.  If  I  tilt  it  in  the  sunlight,  its  dun-corn  color  changes  for  a  second  into  a  bluish  silver.  I  hold  it  against  my  chest.  I  left  the  Plac  Nowy,  and  found,  after  asking  two  passersby,  the  bank  machine.  From  there  I  returned  to  the  pension  in  Miodowa  Street  and  lay  down  on  the  bed.  It  was  very  hot,  hotwith  the  uncer-  tain  heat  of  the  eastern  plains.  Now  I  could  weep.  I  shut  my  eyes  and  imagined  shuffling  a  pack  of  cards. 