 FICTION  JUSTINANS  PRIEST  nly  Justina  Casey  made  sense,  Fa-  ther  Clohessy  reflected  yet  again,  shaking  his  head  over  the  recurrence  of  the  thought,  for  truth  to  tell  the  girl  made  no  sense  at  all.  The  contradiction  nagged  a  little  in  a  familiar  way,  as  it  did  whenever  Justina  Casey,  sinless  as  ever,  made  her  confession.  It  caused  Father  Clohessy  to  feel  inadequate,  foolish  even,  that  he  failed  to  understand  something  that  as  a  priest  he  should  have.  Leaving  the  confessional  she  had  just  left  herself,  he  looked  around  for  her.  At  the  back,  near  the  holy-water  stoup,  she  trailed  her  rosary  through  her  fingers.  &quot;Father,  I'm  bad,&quot;  she  had  insisted  and,  allotting  her  her  penance,  he  had  been  again  aware  that  she  didn't  even  know  what  badness  was.  But  without  the  tell-  ing  of  her  beads,  without  the  few  Hail  74  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  14,  2002  BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR  Marys  he  had  prescribed,  she  would  have  gone  away  unhappy.  Of  her  own  volition,  every  few  daysshe  polished  the  brass  of  the  altar  vases  and  the  altar  cross.  She  would  be  there  on  Saturday  evening,  a  bucket  of  scalding  water  car-  ried  through  the  streets,  the  floor  mop  lifted  down  from  its  hook  in  the  vestry  cupboard.  On  Fridays  she  scraped  away  theweek's  accumulation  of  candle  grease  and  arranged  to  her  satisfaction  the  out-  of-date  missionary  leaflets.  Fifty-four  and  becoming  stout,  with  his  red  hair  cut  short  around  a  freckled  pate,  Father  Clohessy  watched  while  Justina  Casey  dipped  the  tips  of  her  fin-  gersin  the  holy  water  and  blessed  herself  before  she  left  the  church.  Her  footsteps  were  soft  on  the  tiles,  as  if  she  were  of  less  importance  than  the  sacred  ground     she  walked  on,  less  than  the  burning  candles  and  the  plaster  Virgin,  less  even  than  the  unread  missionary  leaflets.  He  remembered  her  at  her  First  Commu-  nion,  standing  out  a  bit  from  the  other  children,  a  seraggy  bunch  of  lilies  of  the  valley  pressed  close  to  her.  It  was  after-  ward  that  she'd  asked  him  if  she  could  look  after  the  brass.  The  doorof  the  church  closed  sound-  lessly  behind  her,  and  Father  Clohessy  was  aware  ofan  emptiness,  of  some-  thing  taken  from  him.  STOCK  ustina  dawdled,  examining  the  goods  in  Z  the  shopwindows.  There  were  the  tins  €  'of  sweets  in  Hehir's,  and  the  glass  jars  in  a2  row  behind  them,  half  full  of  the  mix-  3  tures,  the  jelly  babies  and  bull's-eyes,  soft-  $  centered  fruits,  toffees.  There  were  the  G  fashions  in  Merrick's,  the  window  changed  only  a  week  ago;  meat  in  Cranly's,  delft  and  saucepans  in  Natton's.  A  fine  dust  had  gathered  on  the  dry  goods  in  Mac-  Glashan's,  on  packets  of  Barry's  tea  and  the  advertisements  for  Bisto  and  chicken-  and-ham  paste.  Cabbage  drooped  outside  Mrs.  Scally's,  the  green  fringe  of  the  car-  rots  was  tinged  with  yellow.  &quot;How's  Justina?&quot;  Mrs.  Scally  inquired  from  the  doorway,  the  flowered  overall  that  encased  her  girth  crossed  over  on  it-  self  beneath  her  folded  arms.  She  always  had  her  arms  folded.  One  shoulder  tak-  ing  the  weight  against  the  doorjamb,  a  single  curler  left  in  her  hair,  slippers  on  her  feet  and  the  folded  arms:  that  was  Mrs.  Scally  unless  she  was  weighing  out  potatoes  or  wrapping  a  turnip.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Justina  said.  &quot;I'm  all  right,  Mrs.  Scally.&quot;  &quot;I  have  apples  in.  Will  you  tell  them  up  in  the  house  I  have  apples  in?&quot;  “I  will&quot;)  &quot;There's  a  few  tins  of  peaches  that's  dinged.  I  wouldn't  charge  the  full.&quot;  &quot;You  told  me  that,  Mrs.  Scally.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  mention  it  in  the  house?&quot;  &quot;I  did  surely.&quot;  Justina  passed  on.  Shehad  spoken  to  her  sister  Maeve  about  the  peaches  and  her  sister  hadn't  said  anything.  But  Mr.  Gilfoyle  had  heard  her  saying  it  and  he'd  laughed.  When  Micksie  came  in  he  said  that  if  the  dent  in  the  tin  caused  rust  you'd  have  to  be  careful.  Micksie  was  Maeve's  husband;  Mr.  Gilfoyle  was  his  father.  Diamond  Street  was  where  they  lived,  where  Maeve  ruled  the  small  house-  hold  and  most  of  the  time  was  unable  to  hidethe  fact  that  she  resented  its  com-  position.  Maeve  was  capable  and  brisk  of  manner,  a  tall,  dark-haired  childless  woman.  She  considered  that  she'd  been  caught:  when  their  widowed  mother  died,  there  had  been  only  she  to  look  after  Justina.  And  Maeve  had  been  caught  again  when  her  father-in-law,  miserable  with  the  ailments  of  old  age,  had  to  be  taken  in;  and  again  in  not  realizing  be-  fore  her  marriage  that  Micksie  was  hap-  piest  in  a  pub.  &quot;Oh,  I  have  children  all  right&quot;  was  how  she  often  put  it  when  there  was  sympathy  for  her  childlessness.  Justina  bought  an  ice  cream  in  the  Today  Tonight  shop.  The  evening  pa-  pers  had  just  come  off  the  [REDACTED]  bus.  &quot;NO-VOTE  A  WINNER,&quot;  the  headline  said,  and  she  wondered  what  that  meant.  People  she  knew  were  gathering  items  from  the  shelves,  minerals  in  bottles  and  tins,  frozen  food  from  the  central  refrig-  erator,  magazines  from  the  racks.  She  walked  about,  licking  at  her  ice  cream,  nibbling  the  edge  of  the  cone.  Up  one  aisle  and  down  another,  past  shoe  polish  and  disinfectant  and  fire  lighters,  carton  soups  reduced,  everything  handy  in  case  you'd  forgotten  to  get  it  in  Superquinn.  &quot;You're  a  great  girl,&quot;  one  of  two  nuns  remarked,  reaching  out  for  Kerrygold  butter  and  dropping  it  into  her  wire  bas-  ket.  Older  and  more  severe,  the  other  nun  didn't  say  anything.  &quot;Ah,  I'm  not,&quot;  Justina  said.  She  held  out  her  ice  cream,  but  neither  nun  licked  it.  &quot;No  way  I'm  great,&quot;  Justina  said.  i  at  kept  you?&quot;  Maeve  asked  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;Mrs.  Scally  was  on  about  the  peaches.  Sister  Agnes  and  Sister  Lull  were  in  the  Today  Tonight.&quot;  &quot;What'd  you  go  in  there  for?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  Justina  paused  for  an  instant  and  then  she  told  about  the  ice  cream  and  Maeve  knew  it  was  because  her  sister  had  sud-  denly  considered  it  would  be  a  lie  to  hold  that  back.  &quot;God,  will  you  look  at  the  cut  of  you!&quot;  She  shouted,  furious,  unable  to  help  her-  self.  &quot;Aren't  there  jobs  to  do  here  without  you're  streeling  about  the  town?&quot;  &quot;I  had  to  make  my  confession.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  for  heaven's  sake!&quot;  &quot;What's  up,  Maeve?&quot;  Maeve  shook  her  head.  She  could  feel  a  weariness  in  her  eyes  which  made  her  want  to  close  them,  and  then  felt  it  spreading  through  her  body.  She  re-  turned  to  what  she'd  been  doing  before  Justina  came  in,  slicing  cooked  potatoes.  &quot;Lay  the  table,&quot;  she  said.  'Take  your  anorak  off  and  lay  the  table.&quot;  &quot;I  got  a  letter  from  Breda,&quot;  Justina  said.  She  had  closed  the  back  door  behind  her  but  hadn't  come  further  into  the  kitchen.  She  had  a  way  of  doing  that,  just  as  she  had  a  way  of  standing  by  the  sink,  not  getting  on  with  what  she  was  there  for,  as  if  she'd  forgotten  everything.  All  their  lives,  for  as  long  as  Maeve  could  re-  member,  she  had  been  irritated  by  this  shortcoming  in  her  sister,  as  she  was  by  Justina's  bringing  back  messages  from  the  shopkeepers  to  say  this  or  that  commod-  ity  had  come  in  or  that  there  was  a  new  bargain  line.  There  were  the  telephone  calls  that  came  from  a  farmer  nearly  six  miles  from  the  town  to  say  that  Justina  was  again  feeding  his  bullocks  bunches  of  grass.  Not  that  he  objected,  the  man  al-  ways  said,  only  the  bullocks  could  be  frisky  and  maybe  crowd  her.  «Will  you  read  me  Breda's  letter,  Maeve?&quot;  Justina  said.  &quot;You  keep  away  from  that  one,  d'you  hear  [REDACTED];  &quot;Sure,  Breda's  gone.&quot;  &quot;And  she'll  stay  where  she  is.&quot;  «Will  I  lay  the  table,  Maeve?&quot;  &quot;Didn't  I  ask  you  to?&quot;  &quot;I'll  lay  it  so.&quot;  Father  Clohessy  walked  in  the  oppo-  site  direction  from  the  one  taken  by  Justina.  The  sense  of  loss  that  had  pos-  sessed  him  when  she  left  the  church  this  afternoon  had  given  way  to  a  more  gen-  eral  feeling  of  deprivation  that,  these  days,  he  was  not  often  without.  The  grandeur  of  his  Church  had  gone,  leaving  his  priesthood  within  it  bleak,  the  vocation  that  had  beckoned  him  less  insistent  than  it  had  been.  He  had  seen  his  congrega-  tions  fall  off,  and  struggled  against  the  feeling  that  he'd  been  deserted.  Confusion  spread  from  the  mores  of  the  times  into  the  Church  itself;  in  combating  it,  he  prayed  for  guidance  but  was  not  heard.  A  familiar  melancholy,  not  revealed  in  his  manner,  accompanied  Father  Clo-  hessy  in  the  minutes  it  took  him  to  reach  the  limestone  figure  of  the  rebel  leader  in  the  square  that  was  the  center  of  the  town.  That  he  considered  it  necessary  to  keep  private  his  concern  about  the  plight  of  his  Church  did  nothing  to  lighten  the  burden  of  his  mood,  any  more  than  the  temporary  absence  from  the  parish  of  Father  Finaghy  did.  At  present  un-  dergoing  a  period  of  treatment  after  a  car  accident,  Father  Finaghy  was  extro-  verted  and  gregarious,  a  priest  who  car-  ried  his  faith  onto  the  golf  course,  where  it  was  never  a  hindrance.  &quot;Arrah,  sure  we  do  our  best,&quot;  Father  Finaghy  was  given  to  remarking.  Father  Clohessy  missed  his  companionship-almost  a  protec-  tion  it  seemed  like  sometimes.  &quot;Have  you  change,  Father?&quot;  a  young  woman  begged  from  a  doorway,  a  baby  asleep  in  a  shawl  beside  her.  &quot;A  few  cop-  pers  at  all  today?&quot;  She  saidshe'd  pray  for  him  and  he  thanked  her,  finding  the  coins  she  hoped  for.  He  knew  her;  she  was  usually  there.  He  might  have  asked  her  when  he'd  see  her  at  Mass,  but  he  didn't  bother.  Music  blared  across  the  small  square  from  Mulvany's  Electrical  and  TV,  giving  way  to  the  careless  whine  of  Bob  Dylan.  Mulvany  had  established  for  himself  a  tradition  of  celebrating  the  birthdays  of  popular  entertainers  by  playing  a  tribute:  today  Bob  Dylan  was  sixty.  Although  one  song  only  was  played  on  these  occasions,  and  no  more  than  once  during  the  day  it  related  to,  Father  Clohessy  considered  it  a  disturbance  in  a  quiet  town  and  had  once  approached  Mulvany  about  it.  But  Mul-  vany  had  argued  that  it  was  nostalgia  for  the  older  citizens  to  hear  the  likes  of  Perry  Como  or  Dolly  Parton  coming  out  of  the  blue  at  them,  and  exciting  for  the  young-  sters  to  have  the  new  arrivals  on  the  music  scene  honored.  That  a  priest's  protest  had  been  so  summarily  dismissed  was  par  for  the  course-an  expression  often  used  by  Father  Finaghy  in  his  own  unprotesting  acceptance  of  the  decline  of  clerical  in-  fluence.  The  times  they  are  a-changin',  Bob  Dylan's  reminder  was  repeated  yet  again  before  there  was  silence  from  Mul-  vany's  loudspeakers.  &quot;Isn't  that  a  grand  day,  Father?&quot;  a  woman  remarked  to  him  and  he  agreed  that  it  was  and  she  said  thank  God  for  it.  He  wondered  if  she  knew,  if  any  of  them  knew,  that  when  he  preached  he  was  angry  because  he  didn't  know  what  to  say  to  them,  that  he  searched  for  ways  to  disguise  his  distress,  stumbling  about  from  word  to  word.  &quot;How's  Father  Finaghy?&quot;  the  woman  asked  him.  &quot;Have  you  heard,  Father?&quot;  He  told  her.  Father  Finaghy  was  making  good  progress;  he'd  heard  that  morning.  &quot;Wouldn't  it  be  the  prayers  said  for  him?&quot;  the  woman  suggested,  and  he  agreed  with  that,  too,  before  he  resumed  his  journey  through  the  town  to  where  he  and  Father  Finaghy  lodged.  His  tea  was  ready  for  him  there.  Comeraghview,  called  after  the  moun-  tains  in  the  faraway  distance,  was  a  gray  detached  house,  with  a  handkerchief  tree  in  a  front  garden  protected  from  the  main  road  by  gray  iron  railings.  It  was  he  and  Father  Finaghy  who  had  decided  that  the  presbytery  could  be  put  to  better  use,  who,  with  their  bishop's  permission  and  in  the  end  with  his  blessing,  had  given  it  over  to  become  the  youth  center  the  town  had  long  been  in  need  of.  &quot;I  have  ham  and  a  salad  for  you,&quot;  Fa-  ther  Clohessy's  landlady  said,  placing  this  food  in  front  of  him.  &quot;T  will  of  course,&quot;  Mr.  Gilfoyle  said  when  Justina  asked  him  to  read  Breda  Maguire's  letter  to  her.  &quot;Have  you  it  there?&quot;  Justina  had,  and  Mr.  Gilfoyle  sug-  gested  that  they  take  it  out  the  back  where  they'd  be  in  private.  His  daughter-  in-law  went  ballistic  these  days  at  any  mention  of  Breda  Maguire,  never  mind  having  to  hear  of  her  doings  in  [REDACTED].  Time  was  when  someone  who'd  take  her  sister  off  her  hands  was  a  relief  for  Maeve,  but  now  that  the  two  girls  were  grown  up  and  Breda  Maguire  had  gone  off  the  rails  it  was  naturally  different.  &quot;I'm  living  in  a  great  joint!&quot;  he  read  aloud  in  the  small  flowerless  back  garden  that  had  become  a  depository  for  the  aban-  doned  washbasins  and  lavatory  bowls  and  perforated  ball  cocks  that  his  son  had  re-  placed  in  his  work  as  a  plumber.  Nettles  had  grown  up  around  cast-iron  radiators  and  a  bath;  dandelions  and  docks  flourished.  Mr.  Gilfoyle  had  cleared  a  corner,  where  he  kept  a  chair  from  the  kitchen;  on  sunny  mornings  he  read  the  newspaper  there.  He  was  a  mustached  man,  gray-  haired,  once  burly  and  on  the  stout  side,  less  so  now.  His  pronounced  stoop,  an  arthritic  shoulder,  trouble  with  gall-  stones,  fingers  affected  by  an  industrial  disease,  had  made  another  man  of  him.  In  his  day  he,  too,  had  been  a  plumber.  &quot;The  kind  of  house  you  wouldn't  know  about,&quot;  he  read  out,  imagining  what  was  described:  a  place  where  theatre  people  lived,  coffee  always  on  the  go,  late  morn-  ings.  Mr.  Gilfoyle  found  it  hard  to  believe  that  Breda  Maguire  had  been  given  ac-  commodation  there,  but  he  supposed  it  could  be  true.  Justina,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bath,  had  no  such  difficulty.  She  accepted  with-  out  demur  all  that  was  related.  She  saw  her  friend  in  the  green-and-blue  kimono  that  was  described.  &quot;Like  a  dragon  wrapped  round  me,&quot;  Mx.  Gilfoyle  had  read  out  and  explained  that  a  kimono  was  Japanese.  He  felt  what  he  believed  to  be  a  gallstone  changing  position  inside  him  somewhere,     a  twitch  of  pain  that  was  only  to  be  ex-  pected  at  his  age.  &quot;Davy  Byrnes  you'd  never  see  only  it's  jammed  to  the  doors.  The  racing  crowd,  all  that  kind  of  thing.&quot;  Breda  Maguire  was  on  the  streets,  Mr.  Gilfoyle  saidto  himself.  She  had  money,  you  could  tell  she  had,  nothing  made  up  about  that.  The  house  she  said  she  was  stopping  in  was  out  Is-  landbridge  way  and  again  there  was  an  echo  of  the  truth  in  that,  handy  for  the  quays.  The  quays  were  where  you'd  find  them,  a  bricklayer  told  him  once,  maybe  fifty  yearsago,  and  it  could  still  be  where  a  man  would  go  to  look  for  a  street  woman.  &quot;I  have  a  friend  takes  me  out,&quot;  he  read.  &quot;Billy.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  listen  to  that!&quot;  Justina  whis-  pered.  The  name  of  a  hotel  where  there  were  dances  was  mentioned,  shops,  cine-  mas.  A  wrist  bangle  had  been  bought,  and  Justina  saw  her  friend  and  Billy  at  a  counter  with  a  glass  top  like  the  one  in  Hennessy's  the  Clock  Shop,  necklaces  and  bangles  laid  out  for  them.  Shesaw  them  in  a  café:  a  waitress  bringing  grills,  the  same  as  Justina  had  seen  people  eating  in  Egan's,  and  a  chop  and  chips,  bacon,  egg,  and  sausage.  Billy  was  like  the  air  pilot  in  the  film  she  and  Breda  had  watched  on  the  television  the  day  before  Breda  went  off.  &quot;Hows  tricks  with  your-  self?&quot;  Mr.  Gilfoyle's  voice  continued.  It  would  be  impossible  for  Justina  to  respond  tothat  becauseher  learning  dif-  ficulty  deprived  her  of  any  communica-  tion  that  involved  writing  wordsdown.  But  Breda  had  remembered,  as  naturally  she  would.  &quot;FZ  maybe  give  you  a  call  one  of  these  days,&quot;  Mr.  Gilfoyle  read  out.  The  pain  had  shifted,  had  gone  round  to  the  back,  like  a  gallstone  maybe  would.  &quot;Isn't  Billy  great,  the  way  he'd  give  her  things?&quot;  Justina  said.  &quot;He  is,  Justina.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  Billy  a  great  na556e6974656420537461746573;  &quot;Itis.&quot;  Covering  a  multitude  of  sins,  Mr.  Gil-  foyle  assumed,  astand-in  name  for  names  Breda  didn't  know,  the  presents  another  way  of  putting  it  that  money  had  changed  hands  in  some  quayside  doorway.  &quot;I'll  dream  about  Breda  and  Billy,&quot;  Justina  said,  slipping  down  from  the  edge  of  the  bath.  Father  Clohessy  listened  when  Jus-  tina  put  it  into  her  confession  that  Maeve  was  cross  with  her  because  Breda  telephoned.  She  put  it  into  her  confes-  sion  that  she  went  into  the  kitchen  to  tell  what  Breda  had  said  and  Maeve  wouldn't  listen,  and  the  next  thing  was  she  let  drop  a  cup  she  was  drying.  It  was  then  that  Maeve  began  to  cry,  tears  streaming  down  her  cheeks,  down  her  neck  into  the  collar  of  her  dress.  As  if  it  wasn't  nuisance  enough,  an  old  man  who  didn't  know  how  to  make  his  bed  forever  on  about  his  ailments.  As  if  it  wasn't  enough,  Micksie  in  and  out  of  the  pubs,  a  girl  with  learning  trouble,  the  back  garden  a  tip.  Was  there  a  woman  in  Ireland  could  put  up  with  more,  when  on  top  of  everything  a  hooer  the  likes  of  Breda  Maguire  got  going  again  after  they  thought  they'd  seen  the  back  of  her?  All  that  Justina  put  into  her  confes-  sion.  She  was  bad,  she  said.  One  minute  she  was  laughing  with  Breda  on  the  phone;  the  next,  Maeve  was  crying  in  the  kitchen.  Breda  said  come  up  to  [REDACTED]  and  they'd  have  great  gas.  Get  the  money  however,  Breda  said.  Get  it  off  Mr.  Gil-  foyle,  anything  at  all.  Take  the  half-two  bus,  the  same  as  she'd  got  herself.  Come  up  for  the  two  days,  what  harm  would  it  do  anyone?  &quot;T'll  show  you  the  whole  works,&quot;  Breda  said.  The  fingers  of  Father  Clohessy's  hands  were  locked  together  as  he  lis-  tened,  his  usual  pose  in  the  confes-  sional,  head  turned  so  that  one  ear  could  pick  up  the  revelations  that  were  coming  through  the  gauze  of  the  grille.  Among  his  confessants,  it  was  only  Justina  he  ever  interrupted  and  he  did  so  now.  &quot;Ah  no,  Justina,  no,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Will  I  say  a  Hail  Mary  for  Maeve,  Father?&quot;  &quot;You  wouldn't  want  to  go  up  to  Dub-  lin,  Justina.  You  wouldn't  want  to  upset  your  sister  more.&quot;  &quot;It's  only  Breda's  gone  up  there.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know.&quot;  He  remembered  the  two  of  them  when  they  were  no  more  than  five  or  six  playing  in  Diamond  Street,  Justina's  black  hair  cut  in  a  fringe  and  curling  in  around  her  face,  Breda  as  thin  as  a  weasel.  She'd  been  the  bane  of  the  nuns  when  she'd  attended  the  convent,  sly  and  calculating,  all  knowing  talk  and  unspo-  ken  defiance.  She'd  plastered  herself  with  lipstick  when  she  was  older;  in  the  end  she'd  worn  a  T-shirt  with  an  inde-  cency  on  it.       &quot;Would  it  be  bad  to  go  up  on  the  bus,  Father?&quot;  &quot;I  think  maybe  it  would.  Have  you  anything  else  to  confess,  Justina?&quot;  &quot;Only  Maeve  was  crying.&quot;  &quot;Light  a  candle  when  you'll  leave  the  confessional.  Do  the  floor  on  Saturday,  do  the  brasses.&quot;  Before  she  left  the  confessional  he  murmured  a  prayer  for  her,  knowing  that  was  what  she  liked  to  hear  best  of  all.  It  frightened  him  that  she  might  visit  her  friend,  that  she  might  forget  what  he  had  said,  that  somehow  she  might  acquire  the  bus  fare,  that  she'dgo,  not  telling  anyone.  wo  days  later,  when  Justina  was  washing  the  church  floor,  Father  Clohessy  called  at  the  house  in  Dia-  mond  Street.  &quot;Come  in,  Father,  come  in,&quot;  Mr.  Gil-  foyle  said.  He  led  the  way  into  a  room  where  a  football  match  was  in  progress  on  the  television,  Aston  Villa  and  Arsenal.  His  son  had  been  watching  it,  Mr.  Gil-  foyle  said,  butthen  a  call  had  come  through,  a  tank  overflowing  on  the  Mc-  Carron  estate.  Mr.  Gilfoyle  turned  the  football  off.  Maeve  had  gone  out  for  rashers.  She'd  be  back  in  no  time,  he  said.  They  talked  about  a  job  Mr.  Gilfoyle  78  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  14,  2002  had  done  years  ago  in  the  church,putting  in  a  sink  in  the  vestry.  Father  Clohessy  said  it  was  still  going  strong;  in  use  all  the  time,  he  said.  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  sink,&quot;  Mr.  Gilfoyle  said.  &quot;A  [REDACTED]  sink  was  the  name  we  had  for  that  fellow.  You  wouldn't  see  the  better  of  it.&quot;  “NO.”  &quot;Sit  down,  Father.  I  have  to  sit  down  myself.  I  have  trouble  in  theold  legs.&quot;  A  sound  came  from  the  kitchen.  Mr.  Gilfoyle  called  out  to  his  daughter-  in-law  that  Father  Clohessy  was  here  and  when  Maeve  came  in,  still  in  her  coat,  a  scarf  tied  round  her  hair,  Father  Clohessy  said,  &quot;I  wanted  a  word  about  Justina.&quot;  &quot;She's  being  a  nuisance  to  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;Ah  no,  no.&quot;  &quot;She  lives  in  that  church,&quot;  Maeve  said.  &quot;Justina's  welcome,  Maeve.  No,  it's  only  she  was  mentioningBreda  Ma-  guire.  I'm  concerned  incase  Justina  might  try  to  make  her  way  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  There  was  a  silence  then.  The  priest  was  aware  of  Mr.  Gilfoyle  beingabout  to  say  something  and  changing  his  mind,  and  of  Maeve's  unbelieving  stare.  He  watched  while  she  restrained  herself:  once  ortwice  before,  she  had  been  abrupt  to  the  point  of  rudeness  when  he'd  been  concerned  about  her  sister.  He  didn't  say  anything  himself;  the  silence  went  on.  &quot;She  never  would,&quot;  Maeve  said  at  last.  Successful  in  controlling  her  irritation,  she  failed  to  keep  an  errant  note  of  hope  out  of  her  tone.  It  flickered  in  her  eyes  and  she  shook  her  head,  as  if  to  deny  that  it  was  there.  &quot;How  could  she,  Father?&quot;  &quot;'The  bus  goes  every  day.&quot;  &quot;She'd  need  money.  She  spends  every  penny  soon  as  she  gets  it.&quot;  &quot;I  just  thought  I'd  say.  So  you  could  keep  an  eye  on  her.&quot;  Maeve  did  not  respond  to  that.  Mr.  Gil-  foyle  said  Justina  would  never  board  that  bus.  He'd  walk  down  to  the  square  himself  and  keep  a  lookout  where  the  bus  drew  in.  &quot;It  would  be  worse  if  she  got  a  lift  off  someone.&quot;  Wearily,  Maeve  closed  her  eyes  when  Father  Clohessy  said  that.  She  sighed  and  turned  away,  struggling  with  her  anger,  and  Father  Clohessy  felt  sorry  for  her.  It  wasn't  easy;  shedid  her  best.  &quot;We'll  keep  an  eye  on  her,&quot;  she  said.  hat  night,  when  Father  Clohessy  closed  his  church  after  the  late  Sat-  urday  Mass,  he  wondered  if  he  had  be-  come  prey  to  despair,  the  worst  sin  of  all  in  the  canon  that  was  specially  a  priest's.  At  street  corners,  in  the  square,  men  stood  in  conversation,  lit  cigarettes,  ar-  gued  the  chances  of  Offaly  the  next  day.  Women  linked  arms,  talking  as  they  strolled.  Children  carried  away  chips  from  O'Donnell's.  The  grandeur  might  have  gone  from  his  Church,  his  influ-  ence  fallen  away  to  nothing,  but  there  was  money  where  there'd  been  poverty,  ambition  where  there'd  been  humility.  These  were  liberated  people,  who  lived  their  lives  as  generations  before  them  had  not.  They  wore  what  they  wished  to  wear,  they  said  what  they  wished  to  say,  they  stayed  or  went  away.  Was  the  price  of  this  that  the  woman  he  had  visited  would  rid  herself  of  a  backward  sister  if  she  could?  It  was  on  a  Saturday  evening  little  different  from  this  one  that  he  had  first  read  the  legend  on  Breda  Maguire's  T-shirt,  bold  yellow  letters  on  black,  simple  and  straightforward:  Fuck  Me.  On  the  streets  of  the  town  he  had  always  known,  people  spoke  to  him,  warmly,  with  respect.  They  wished  him  good  night,  they  wished  him  well.  He  could  not  blame  them  if  in  his  sermons  he  didn't  know  what  to  say  to  them  any-     more.  He  should  apologize,  yet  knew  he  must  not.  In  the  square,  he  entered  the  Emmet  Bar,  between  the  old  Munster  &amp;  Leinster  Bank,  now  an  ALB.  branch,  and  Mulvany's  television  shop.  Father  Finaghy  always  called  in  on  Saturdays  after  they  closed  the  church,  and  he  sometimes  did  himself-to  drink  acou-  ple  of  glasses  of  Beamish's  stout  and  smoke  a  couple  of  cigarettes  while  he  talked  to  two  men  with  whom  he  had  attended  the  Christian  Brothers'  forty  years  ago.  Both  had  done  well  enough  in  the  new  prosperity,  had  fathered  chil-  dren  and  seen  them  educated,  were  de-  cent  men.  He  liked  them  as  much  as  he  always  had,  even  sometimes  was  envious  of  their  uncomplicated  lives.  They,  not  he,  did  the  talking  in  the  Emmet  Bar,  al-  ways  sensitive  to  the  cloth  he  wore.  Nei-  ther  of  them  had  mentioned  it  when  a  few  years  ago  a  well-loved  bishop  had  been  exposed  as  the  begetter  of  a  child,  nor  when  there  had  been  other  misde-  meanors  on  the  part  of  other  clergymen.  &quot;Bring  us  the  same,  Larry,&quot;  the  bulkier  of  the  two  called  out,  a  bright-colored  tie  loosened  in  his  collar,  freckles  darkening  his  forehead.  Clumsy  hands  pushed  the  empty  glasses  across  the  bar.  &quot;And  one  for  the  Father.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  see  Offaly  victorious,&quot;  his  companion  remarked,  tidier,  wiry,  a  salesman  of  agricultural  implements.  &quot;No  way.&quot;  Music  was  faint  in  the  crowded  bar,  as  if  coming  from  some  other  room  or  con-  veyed  through  apparatus  that  was  faulty;  laughter  exploded  in  guffaws,  or  rippled,  hardly  heard.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  Father  Clohessy  said,  reaching  for  the  glass  that  had  been  filled  for  him.  A  sense  of  isolation,  often  creeping  up  on  him  during  a  Saturday  evening  in  the  Emmet  Bar,  did  so  again.  Centuries  of  devotion  had  created  a  way  of  life  in  which  the  mystery  of  the  Trinity  was  taken  for  granted,  the  Church's  invincible  estate  a  part  of  every  day,  humility  part  of  it,  too,  instead  of  rights  plucked  out  of  nowhere,  order  abandoned.  What  priests  and  bishops  had  been-their  strength  and  their  parish  people's  salvation-was  mocked  in  television  farces,  deplored,  presented  as  absurdity.  That  other  priests  in  other  towns,  in  cities,  in  country  parishes,  were  isolated  by  their  celibacy,  by  the  mourning  black  of  their  dress,  had  been  a  consolation  once,  but  that  source  of  comfort  had  long  ago  dried  up.  The  Offaly  flags  would  be  hoisted  all  right  if  Ger  Toibin  had  been  fit,  his  companions  were  agreeing.  The  final  score  was  predicted;  he  joined  in  that,  the  talk  went  on.  Houses  were  to  be  built  on  the  Tinakilty  road  where  theold  cement  works  had  been.  Madden's  Hotel  would  be  closed  for  six  months  while  improve-  ments  were  put  in.  There  were  rumors  of  a  fertilizer  outfit  taking  over  William-  son's  Yard.  &quot;Are  you  off  so?&quot;  Father  Clohessy  heard  himself  asked  when  half  anhour  had  passed,  then  heard  it  said  that  he  would  surely  have  another.     He  shook  his  head,  finishing  his  sec-  _  ond  cigarette  and  stubbing  out  the  butt.  There  were  a  few  more  exchanges  before  he  pushed  his  way  through  the  drinkers,  his  hand  shaken  once  or  twice,  salutes  of  farewell.  In  the  darkening  streets  of  the  town  his  reverie  continued.  A  kind  of  truth  it  was,  somewhere  at  the  heart  of  his  voca-  tion,  that  there  should  be  awareness  of  the  holy  world  that  was  lost-yet  he  could  not  ever  deny  that  vocation  claimed  its  postulants  as  it  wished.  Companionable  and  easy,  Father  Finaghy  led  the  sing-  songs  in  the  Emmet  Bar  on  a  Saturday  evening,  a  little  tipsy  and  none  the  worse  for  that.  Slowly,  as  Father  Clohessy  walked  on,  these  well-worn  reflections  were  left  behind  in  the  town  that  was  half  closed  down  for  the  night.  Nothing  replaced  them  for  a  while,  before  the  careful  hands  of  Justina  Casey  lifted  down  the  altar  ornaments,  her  polishing  rags  and  Brasso  pads  tidily  laid  out.  She  touched  away  from  a  lily  a  petal  that  had  gone  |  brown.  She  scraped  off  the  candle  grease  |  that  had  accumulated  on  the  candle-  holders.  She  rearranged  the  missionary  leaflets.  It  was  what  there  was;  it  was  what  he  had,  whether  he  understood  it  or  not.  Justina  Casey  would  stay  in  the  town  because  Mr.  Gilfoyle  would  make  sure  she  didn't  get  on  the  [REDACTED]  bus.  Maeve  |  would  keep  an  eye  on  her;  after  a  time  Breda  Maguire  would  forget  about  her.  In  the  confined  space  of  the  confessional  there  would  again  be  the  unnecessary  confessions,  again  the  granting  of  abso-     lution.  Then  happiness  would  break  in  -  the  face  that  saw  God  in  his  own. 