  FICTION  LOST  AND  FOUND  he  weekend  that  Helly  brought  her  new  boyfriend  down  to  Clare's  house  in  the  West  Country,  Clare's  youn-  ger  brother,  Toby,  was  also  staying  there,  following  the  family  around  with  his  video  camera,  making  a  documentary  for  his  college  course.  Clare  gave  the  camera  one  quick  ex-  asperated  glance  when  the  doorbell  rang  and  the  guests  arrived.  The  food  should  have  been  ready,  but  she  was  still  chop-  ping  hurriedly  amid  a  debris  of  vegetable  leavings;  her  fingers  were  covered  with  parsley  bits.  &quot;Oh,  Toby,  stop  it!&quot;  Her  glance  at  the  camera-she  looks  at  the  lens  and  not  at  Toby,  as  if  it  were  his  eyes-is  caught  forever  on  the  tape.  She  is  wishing  she  had  had  time  to  change  into  the  nicer  clothes  she  had  chosen.  Her  hair  is  in  a  short  thick  black  plait  on  her  shoulder,  fastened  with  a  rubber  band.  She  looks  tired.  When  she  is  tired  (she  believes),  all  the  things  that,  when  she  is  at  her  best,  make  her  look  like  an  intellectual-small  eyes,  neat  straight  brows,  thin  lips,  a  square  high  fore-  head-just  make  her  look  like  a  librar-  ian.  She  has  good  skin,  but  it  is  pink  and  hot  because  she  is  flustered.  Her  glance  is  naked  and  hostile-her  last  moment  of  free  expression  before  she  has  to  put  on  a  smiling  face.  It's  not  clear  whether  the  hostility  is  directed  at  Toby,  for  filming,  or  at  Helly,  for  finding  her  out  in  her  humiliation,  dragged  down  by  the  children,  without  makeup,  with  wet  red  hands.  When  Helly  introduced  her  new  boyfriend  toClare,  she  said,  &quot;You  two  may  know  each  other.  David  comes  from  around  here,  too.  We  must  all  have  been  at  teen-age  parties  together.  He  knows  people  we  knew.&quot;  But  the  man  was  a  stranger,  an  alien  in  Clare's  house,  with  shades  hiding  his  eyes  and  an  exaggerated  presence  she  flinched  from.  He  had  a  large  head  and  thick  dark  hair  standing  straight  BY  TESSA  HADLEY  up  from  his  forehead,  curvy  big  cheek-  bones,  and  blue-black  stubble  on  his  chin.  In  his  thick  beautiful  leather  coat,  he  was  loudly  and  confidently  friendly,  in  a  way  that  suggested  immediately  to  Clare  that  he  didn't  want  to  be  here  in  the  provinces  visiting  his  girlfriend's  friend  who  was  nobody.  When  they  all  kissed,  the  43616e616461ers  smelled  expensively  of  scents  and  lo-  tions,  and  Clare  was  aware  of  her  limp  T-shirt,  which  had  soaked  up  the  smell  of  the  onion  soup  she  wasmaking  for  lunch.  The  soup,  with  Parmesan  toasts  baked  in  the  oven,  would  be  delicious.  And  Helly  couldn't  cook.  But  Clare  feared  that  everything  brilliant  and  savory  about  her  might  appear  to  have  drained  into  that  onion  soup,  leaving  her  wan  and  dull  and  domesticated.  Helly  was  her  best  friend.  Recently,  Helly  had  been  paid  thirty  thousand  pounds  (twice  as  much  as  Bram,  Clare's  husband,  earned  in  a  year)  to  appear  in  a  series  of  advertisements  for  ice  cream;  the  ads  were  shown  on  television  and  in  the  cinema,  as  well  as  on  billboards.  Everywhere  Clare  went,  she  was  surprised  out  of  her  reverie  by  Helly's  golden  face  or  by  the  misty  curves  of  Helly's  body,  intently  and  extrava-  gantly  inviting  her  into  a  larger-than-  life  golden  vanilla  space  concealed  in-  side  the  prose  of  every  day.  These  images  got  in  the  way  for  a  while  whenever  Clare  was  with  the  real  Helly:  the  real  Helly  would  seem  for  the  first  few  min-  utes  slightly  contracted,  smaller  and  more  precise  than  she  should  be,  and  muffled  in  surprising  clothes.  Helly  was  embarrassed  about  the  ads.  She  was  a  serious  actress.  She  didget  work,  in  fringe  and  in  soaps,  but  not  enough;  she  was  still  waiting  for  her  break.  And  no  one,  no  one,  could  have  turned  down  thirty  thousand  pounds.  The  advertisements  paid  for  the  serious  work:  that  was  the  theory.  But  Helly's  friends  couldn't  help  feeling  that  some-  168  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  18  &amp;  25,  2002  thing  momentous  had  happened,  that  Helly  had  stepped  irretrievably  into  a  current  of  money  and  frivolity  and  glam-  our  that  would  carry  her  off.  Anyway,  she  wasn't  strikingly  talented  as  an  actress.  Although  none  of  them  quite  acknowl-  edged  it,  the  ads  were  more  exciting,  re-  ally,  than  if  Helly  had  got  a  good  part  in  a  play.  They  watched  to  see  what  would  happen  next.  Clare  could  remember  that  when  she  and  Helly  were  fifteen  one  of  their  shared  fantasies  had  been  to  imagine  their  naked  bodies  projected  lingeringly  onto  a  cinema  screen  in  front  ofan  audience.  So  she  couldn't  be  sure  just  how  genuine  Helly's  contemptuous  indifference  to  those  golden  simulacra  plastered  every-  where  was.  Or  how  genuine  her  own  contemptuous  indifference  was,  either.  he  two  visitors  filled  up  the  little  terraced  house  with  noise  and  ciga-  rette  smoke  and  things.  Although  they  were  staying  only  one  night,  they  had  brought  in  from  the  car  bags  of  presents  and  bottles  of  wine  and  flowers  and  a  camera  and  a  portable  mini-disk  player  and  a  heapof  leather  luggage;  also  a  lap-  top,  on  which  David  had  already  tried  to  access  his  E-mail.  (He  worked  as  a  light-  ing  technician,  designing  systems  for  stage  shows  and  clubs:  this  seemed  to  necessitate  frequent  contacts  with  hisas-  sociates  and  long  sessions  on  the  mobile  phone.)  They  talked  more  loudly  and  constantly  and  laughed  more  than  Clare  was  used  to.  And  she  was  taken  aback  at  how  pro-  foundly  she  coveted  Helly's  beautiful  clothes.  She  liked  to  think  that  she  was  fairly  indifferent  to  material  possessions.  Under  Bram's  influence,  she  had  given  away  lots  of  her  CDs,  deciding  she  had  outgrown  them.  They  had  a  house  full  of  books  but  no  television,  and  Clare  made  her  own  bread  andground  her  own  spices  and  salted  lemons  to  put  in  salads  and  chicken  dishes.  She  bought  ITANL  SISTERS  most  of  what  she  wore  in  charity  shops:  not  grudgingly  but  pointedly,  because  it  was  more  original  to  put  together  your  own  bits  and  pieces.  But  when  she  saw  Helly's  long  lilac-colored  dress  and  her  green  velvet  jacket  sewn  with  mirrors  and  her  toenails  painted  green  she  was  reminded  that  there  was  something  else  you  could  do  with  your  clothes,  some-  thing  more  than  just  original,  something  that  amounted  to  power  and  joy.  You  needed  money  to  make  the  look  of  you  mysteriously  arouse  both  longing  and  satisfaction-though  you  had  to  have  a  5  gift,  too,  to  choose  the  right  things  so  in-  S  ventively  and  surely.  Helly  was  grievously  good  to  look  at:  tall  and  spare,  all  flat  planes,  wide  shoulders,  big  hands  and  feet,  with  sharp  2  cheekbones  and  a  long  mobile  mouth.  7  Her  eyes  were  light  green,  and  her  skin  gwas  really  quite  pale,  not  golden  as  it  2  was  in  the  ads.  Her  spiky  hair  was  blond  out  of  a  bottle,  with  the  roots  left  delib-  erately  dark.  The  children  came  and  watched  Helly  and  David  as  if  they  were  a  show.  Lily,  who  was  seven,  reached  out  a  finger  and  stroked  the  velvet  of  Helly's  sleeve.  Rose  put  on  her  Superman  cape  especially  for  David,  who  didn't  notice.  He  never  knew  what  he  was  supposed  to  say  to  people's  children,  he  confessed.  k  Helly  was  the  one  who  made  the  effort;  she'd  brought  them  things,  and  she  talked  to  them  in  a  chaffing  ironic  voice  that  Clare  knew  (she  knew  Helly  very  well)  meant  that  she  was  slightly  afraid  of  them,  not  sure  what  they  were  think-  ing  or  how  toplease  them.  Coco,  the  oldest  and  the  only  boy,  was  deeply  sus-  picious  of  both  visitors.  He  winced  at  Helly's  silver  lip  ring  and  ignored  her,  as  if  it  were  kinder  not  to  draw  attention  to  how  she  shamed  herself  by  wearing  it.  But  he  was  drawn,  almost  against  his  better  judgment,  to  the  laptop.  Even  Clare's  brother  Toby-infuriatingly,  be-  cause  he  was  twenty-one  and  should  have  been  backing  her  up  as  a  fellow-adult-  sat  dumbly  smiling  and  blushing,  in  spite  of  all  Helly's  efforts  to  draw  him  out.  (Clare  knew  Helly  would  be  much  more  confident  of  how  to  please  Toby,  not  be-  cause  she  had  known  him  since  he  was  a  boy  but  because  he  was  a  man  now,  and     couldn't  take  his  eyes  off  the  lip  ring.)  Twelve  years,  thirteen  years  ago,  they  calculated,  David  and  Clare  and  Helly  had  all  lived  in  this  city  but  strangely  did  not  seem  to  have  known  one  another.  David  had  even  been  in  the  sixth  form  with  a  boy  Clare  had  gone  out  with  for  months.  They'd  had  so  many  teen-age  haunts  in  common,  a  pub,  a  club  (even  the  city  reference  library,  where  they  re-  vised  for  A  levels),  and  so  many  mutual  acquaintances,  it  seemed  impossible  that  they  hadn't  met.  «p  p  m  just  beginning  to  remember,&quot;  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  18  &amp;  25,  2002  169  David  said.  &quot;Seeing  you  two  together,  it's  starting  to  come  back  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Don't  believe  him.&quot;  Helly  laughed.  &quot;He's  just  flirting.&quot;  He  was  flirting,  although  Clare  pre-  sumed  he  was  only  using  his  flirtation  with  her  in  some  game  with  Helly.  She  was  as  aware  of  the  unaccustomed  aura  of  sexual  tension  in  her  house  as  she  was  of  the  unaccustomed  cigarette  smoke:  both  things  made  her  anxious  and  excited  at  once,  and  she  was  already  bracing  herself  for  when  Bram  came  in.  He  would  sniff  them  both  out  im-  mediately,  and  disapprove  of  them,  al-  though  he  would  be  as  always-infalli-  bly-courteous  and  friendly.  This  was  why  Clare  didn't  see  Helly  very  often  anymore.  It  stretched  her  too  painfully,  having  to  defend  Helly  from  Bram's  dis-  approval  while  mobilizing  inside  her-  self  all  her  best  arguments  against  the  way  Helly's  life  tempted  her  and  made  her  envious.  &quot;Did  you  know  someone  called  Tim  Dashwood?&quot;  David  asked.  &quot;Tim  Dashwood?  No,&quot;  Clare  said.  &quot;Yes,  we  did,&quot;  Helly  said.  &quot;Remem-  ber?  We  went  to  parties  at  his  flat.  Very  naughty  parties.  Where  we  got  up  to  all  sorts  of  things.  Pas  devant  les  enfants.&quot;  &quot;What  did  youdo  at  the  naughty  parties?&quot;  Lily  asked.  &quot;Lots  of  rubbish,  I  expect,&quot;  Coco  said.  /F  &quot;That's  exactly  right,&quot;  Helly  said.  &quot;You're  so  right.  Lots  and  lots  of  rubbish.  And  d'you  know  what  we  used  to  wear?  I'll  bet  you  can't  imagine  your  mummy  dressed  entirely  in  black  clothes,  with  a  black  bustier,  and  black  eye  makeup  and  fingernails  and  lipstick.  We  were  briefly  gothic.  It  didn't  last.  But  that  was  the  Tim  Dashwood  period.  We  didn't  know  him  well.  He  and  his  friends  must  have  been  older  than  us.&quot;  &quot;Black  lipstick!  Yuck!&quot;  Lily  said.  &quot;What's  a  bustier?&quot;  &quot;Something  silly  that  ladies  wear,  like  underwear  on  top  of  their  clothes.&quot;  &quot;I  suddenly  had  a  feeling  that  that  was  where  I  was  remembering  you  from,&quot;  David  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  can  remember  Clare  at  one  of  Tim's  parties.&quot;  &quot;I  can't,&quot;  Clare  said,  puzzling.  &quot;I  can't  even  remember  anyone  called  Tim.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  remember  me  there?&quot;  Helly  asked  him.  &quot;Perhaps.  Did  you  used  to  have  long  plaits?&quot;  &quot;Long  black  ones,  naturally.&quot;  &quot;Then  maybe,  maybe.&quot;  &quot;If  I  ever  look  in  my  old  diaries  from  those  days,&quot;  Clare  said,  &quot;which  mostly  I  dont-it's  too  hideous-then  I  feel  as  if  I'm  reading  about  someone  else.  Not  just  people  I  knew  that  I  can't  re-  member,  and  places  I  went  and  things  I  did,  but  feelings  I  felt,  things  I  wanted.  -—&quot;[II  gh,  raitt  &quot;Nobody  laughs  at  my  library  of  self-help  books  now.&quot;  It  doesn't  connect  to  me  as  I  am  now.&quot;  &quot;You  keep  a  diary,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  not  anymore.  I  wouldn't  keep  one  now.&quot;  &quot;She's  got  volumes  of  it.  She  used  to  write  pages  every  night,&quot;  Helly  said.  &quot;It's  so  embarrassing.  The  entries  begin  with  things  like  'Calories  so  far  today:  one  centimetre  of  toothpaste,  5.  Or  I  know  that  now  I  will  never,  ever,  be  happy  again  in  my  whole  life,'  about  some  boy  whose  name  I  can't  even  guess  from  his  initials.&quot;  &quot;So  what  do  you  remember  from  Tim  Dashwood's  party,  David?&quot;  Helly  asked.  He  was  simply  the  wrong  scale  for  the  little  room  crowded  with  books  and  pictures  and  delicate  ceramics  (Clare's  father  was  a  potter).  He  was  sitting  in  his  leather  coat,  with  one  leg  crossed  over  the  other  knee,  jammed  into  the  most  comfortable  chair  in  the  house  (which  was  not  all  that  comfortable).  He  shook  his  legin  what  seemed  to  be  a  nervous  habit,  showing  a  stretch  of  big  brown  hairy  calf  above  his  scarlet  sock,  drum-  ming  his  fingers  on  the  arms  of  the  chair.  At  least  he  had  taken  off  his  sunglasses.  His  eyes  exposed  without  them  were  comical,  doleful,  as  if  they  had  been  pulled  down  into  his  cheeks.  He  smiled  as  he  considered  the  question.  Rose  put  a  little  fat  hand  on  his  knee,  which  he  ignored.  &quot;I  don't  remember  much.  You  know  what  his  parties  were  like.  That  used  to  be  the  general  point,  right?  To  get  so  out  of  it  you  wouldn't  remember  much.&quot;  &quot;Out  of  what?&quot;  Lily  asked.  lare  and  Helly  had  met  at  the  Amery-  'James  High  School  for  Girls:  from  twelve  to  eighteen,  they  had  lived  in  an  intimacy  that  they  would  never  attain  again  with  anybody  else.  In  the  very  pro-  cess  of  their  formation  they  had  been  in-  tertwined,  like  two  trees  growing  in  the  same  space.  They  learned  to  smoke  to-  gether,  practicing  at  home  (Clare's  home,  with  more  liberal  parents)  under  each  other's  critical  scrutiny  until  it  looked  right.  Now  Clare,  who  had  quit,  saw  that  Helly  still  tilted  up  her  chin  and  blew  her  smoke  off  to  one  side  in  the  way  that  they  had  decided  was  the  most  flattering.  At  school,  they  made  a  secret  pact  of  re-  sistance  (the  school  motto  was  &quot;So  hateth  she  derknesse!&quot;  -they  determined  to  love  it);  the  pact  was  sealed  by  an  exchange  of  drops  of  menstrual  blood  on  tissues  folded  and  tied  around  with  hairs  pulled  from  each  other's  heads.  They  went  shop-  lifting  together  (for  clothes,  mostly,  and  makeup),  setting  it  for  themselves  as  a  significant  test,  an  initiation  into  the  kind  of  adulthood  they  aspired  to:  transgres-  sive,  toughened,  disrespectful-the  op-  posite  of  the  one  that  Amery-James  as-  pired  to  on  their  behalf.  Helly  carried  the  shoplifting  off  with  flair;  Clare  was  cowardly  and  full  of  dread.  Clare  was  the  theorist,  and  Helly  was  the  one  who  acted.  Clare  was  the  feminist-when  they  were  fifteen,  they  read  her  stepmother's  old  copyof  &quot;The  Female  Eunuch&quot;  to-  gether,  side  by  side  on  their  stomachs  on  Helly's  bed-but  it  was  Helly  who  later  rode  a  motorbike  and  went  out  on  her  own  to  pubs  and  clubs  and  mostly  dis-  missed  contemptuously  the  boys  who  asked  her  out.  Clare  had  always  sus-  pected  and  concealed  a  secret  abjectness  in  herself,  some  treachery  of  neediness  toward  the  other  sex  that  seemed  to  ful-  fill  itself  when  she  and  Helly  were  in  their  early  twenties  and  the  serious  busi-  ness  of  life  became  men.  The  girls  had  turned  their  backs  on  each  other  then,  ruthlessly  cutting  away  old  connections  because  they  thought  they  had  found,  at  last,  the  lives  they  really  wanted.  lare  was  putting  the  Parmesan  toasts  in  the  oven  whenBram  came  in  through  the  back  door.  He  was  work-  ing  on  a  two-year  project,  recording  the  ecology  ofan  area  of  mudflats  and  coastal  grassland  which  would  be  cov-  ered  by  water  when  the  new  barrage  for  the  city's  marina  was  completed.  On  weekends,  volunteer  groups  came  down  to  help,  and  he  had  to  be  there  to  su-  pervise,  but  he'd  promised  to  be  home  for  lunch.  She  was  relieved  that  he  came  in  the  back  way,  because  it  meant  that  Helly  and  David  would  not  see  him  in  his  unflattering  cycling  helmet.  He  was  so  without  vanity  (genuinely,  she  was  sure-she  had  probed  for  it  deeply  enough)  that  she  sometimes  thought  he  looked  for  ways  to  make  himself  ugly,  to  undo  the  effect  of  gentleness  that  he  couldn't  help;  he  was  blond  and  delicate,  with  a  forward-thrust  lower  jaw  that  made  him  soften  his  consonants  when  he  spoke.  &quot;So  what's  this  one  like?&quot;  he  asked,  taking  off  the  helmet,  running  his  head  under  the  cold  tap,  scouring  himself  with  the  towel.  &quot;He's  perfectly  friendly.  I  think  he's  nice.  Better  than  the  last  one,  anyway.&quot;  (After  Helly  brought  the  last  one  to  visit  them,  Clare  had  found  scorched  tinfoil  in  the  bathroom  and  feared  the  worst.)  &quot;He's  a  bit  too  much,  though.&quot;  &quot;Too  much  of  what?&quot;  They  sort  of  fill  the  place  up.&quot;  &quot;She  always  brings  several  changes  of  clothes,  doesn't  she?  Just  in  case.&quot;  &quot;You  can  hardly  get  past  their  luggage  in  the  hall.&quot;  &quot;And  I  suppose  you've  been  hearing  all  about  the  delights  of  cultural  hap-  pening  in  the  capital?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  they've  been  everywhere  and  done  everything,  and  know  everyone,  of  course.&quot;  This  rehearsal  of  mutual  ironic  judg-  ment  felt  comradely  and  consoling,  but  as  soon  as  Bram  went  to  talk  to  the  visi-  tors  and  Clare  was  left  setting  the  table  she  was  filled  with  unreasonable  resent-  ment  at  his  tone.  They  hadn't  really  talked  much  about  [REDACTED];  mostly  she  and  Helly  had  talked  about  the  old  days.  It  was  Clare's  own  fault  if  she  had  taken  away  any  impression  that  things  in  Lon-  don  were  more  brilliant  and  thrilling  than  they  were  down  here.  The  lunch  went  off  all  right.  At  least  the  soup  was  good,  and  there  seemed  to  be  plenty  of  talk,  although  most  of  it  was  Helly's  and  David's.  Helly  told  them  funny  stories  about  the  shoot  for  the  ice-cream  ad,  and  David  seemed  to  hold  forth  on  every  topic-he  knew  someone  or  he'd  read  something  or  he'd  once  worked  somewhere.  He  even  man-  aged  tofind  some  kind  of  software  pro-  gram  to  talk  about  with  Bram:  Bram  usually  didn't  try  to  compete  whenever  the  conversation  was  noisy.  Clare  was  used  to  presuming,  wincingly,  defen-  sively,  that  Helly  must  think  Bram  was  dull  and  stolid.  She  always  made  a  point  of  trying  to  coax  him  out  of  what  she  probably  imagined  was  his  shell.  Clare  winced  defensively  for  Helly,  too:  she  had  no  idea  how  Bram  recoiled  from  her  coaxing.  Toby  got  it  all  on  his  video.  Both  of  the  visitors  tried  to  encourage  him  out  from  behind  his  viewfinder.  David  had  friends  at  a  video-production  company  whom  Toby  should  get  in  touch  with;       Helly  lit  a  cigarette  for  him  and  tried  to  draw  him  out  on  the  subject  of  himself.  But  he  couldn't  resist  the  way  the  shots  framed  themselves  around  David  and  Helly,  how  dingy  they  managed  to  make  ordinary  family  life  seem.  Rose  tipped  over  her  orange  juice.  Lily  wouldn't  eat  the  onion  soup.  Coco  had  broken  his  glasses,  which  had  to  be  mended  with  a  Band-Aid  until  they  could  get  to  the  optician's  on  Monday.  For  some  reason,  Clare  was  exasperated  at  this,  and  at  how  patiently  Bram  mopped  up  Rose's  orange  juice  with  a  cloth,  although  she  knew  that  this  was  unfair,  and  knew  how  much  more  exasperated  she  would  have  been  if  he  hadn't  mopped  it.  Shehad  taken  a  few  minutes  before  lunch  to  change  into  a  dress  and  brush  out  her  hair  and  spray  on  perfume.  She  wasn't  sure  whether  she  was  really  flirt-  ing  with  David,  at  that  point:  she  was  making  up  to  him,  flattering  him,  be-  cause  that  would  make  everything  go  smoothly,  Helly  would  be  satisfied,  and  he  would  at  least  be  kept  happy  for  the  afternoon.  She  could  see  herself,  when  she  watched  the  video  later,  backing  away  in  front  of  them  down  the  path  of  their  weekend,  his  and  Helly's,  clearing  it  for  them  with  her  interest  and  her  atten-  tion,  helping  to  damp  down  David's  im-  patience  to  be  gone.  hey  went  out  in  the  afternoon  to  look  at  Bram's  project.  Bram  had  been  amused  that  Helly  had  to  change  her  clothes  first;  although  actually  she  reappeared  in  sensible  scruffy  trousers  and  shirt,  in  which  she  still  managed  to  look  spectacular,  and  it  was  Clare  in  her  dress  who  gother  legs  bitten  and  scratched  in  the  long  grass.  They  walked  around  the  bay,  which  would  eventu-  ally  become  the  marina:  now  it  was  low  tide  and  the  ruined  jetties  of  the  old  harbor  stood  up  to  their  knees  in  sleek  gray  glinting  mud.  Oystercatchers  and  curlews-Bram  pointed  them  out-  picked  their  fastidious  way  between  them.  Across  the  ring  of  the  bay,  the  buildings  of  the  city  loomed,  plate-glass  office-block  windows  flashing  when-  ever  the  sun  flew  out  from  between  the  ragged  slate-colored  clouds.  It  was  May,  and  there  was  a  wind  that  flattened  the  mauve-green  grass  like  a  pelt  and  sent  it  racing  in  liquid  waves;  from  time  to  time  179  TIIE  NEW  MARKER  EERRAMN.10  s  or  omnmo  the  sky  shook  out  cold  drops  of  rain.  David  was  taking  photographs.  Bram  left  to  goand  find  his  group  of  volun-  teers,  who  were  counting  lugworms  far-  ther  on.  The  others  climbed  down  some  concrete  steps  with  a  rusted  handrail  and  onto  a  scrap  of  beach  heaped  up  with  stones  and  sticks  and  plastic  rubbish  and  cans,  which  the  sea  had  bleached  to  the  same  opaque  pale  pastel.  As  soon  as  she  saw  water,  Rose  began  to  take  her  clothes  off.  She  was  a  willful,  huge-eyed  baby  with  rolls  of  translucent  flesh  at  her  wrists  and  chin  and  waist,  and  she  despised  clothes.  She  stripped  at  every  opportunity,  winter  and  sum-  mer,  streaking  triumphantly  just  out  of  reach  of  pursuing  adults,  flashing  the  long  tender  crease  of  her  vulva  and  the  pink  cheeks  of  her  bottom.  Clare  wor-  ried  that  Rose's  taste  for  nakedness  was  outgrowing  her  innocence-she  would  be  four  in  a  few  months-and  she  thought  she  needed  to  be  taught  to  pro-  tect  herself.  Rose  protested  that  this  was  the  seaside.  &quot;No,  it's  not,  it's  dirty  water,  and  you're  not  to  go  in  it.&quot;  Rose  seemed  to  concede  defeat.  But  a  few  minutes  later  she  was  suddenly  no-  where  to  be  seen,  and  there  was  a  little  pile  of  her  clothes  dropped  down  beside  an  oil  can  with  the  bottom  rusted  out  and  a  seagull's  wing.  It  seemed  impossi-  ble  that  she  could  have  gone  anywhere  out  of  their  sight  in  so  short  a  time.  Everyone  called  her  name,  looking  for  her  along  the  beach  and  back  up  the  steps.  The  crescendo  of  dismay,  from  the  first  exasperated  flutter  of  worry  (&quot;What  a  pain  she  is!&quot;)  to  hollow  uninhibited  panic,  took  only  a  few  minutes.  Clare  screamed  at  the  other  two  children  to  stay  where  they  were  and,  kicking  off  her  shoes,  ran  barefoot  across  the  shingle  and  the  potentially  lethal  debris  of  glass  and  tin  to  stand  soakingher  skirt  at  the  scummy  edge  of  the  water,  shrieking  along  the  shoreline  to  right  and  left,  fumblingwith  her  arms  to  feel  for  any-  thing  pulled  under  and  washing  in  the  tide  of  sluggish  brown  waves  that  hardly  broke,  hardly  made  spume.  She  couldn't  see  through  the  water.  She  couldn't  think  what  she  ought  to  do  next,  whether  she  should  somehow  submerge  herself  in  it  and  tryto  open  her  eyes.  Wasn't  this  al-  ways  how  it  was,  with  accidents-the  parents  tinkered  grotesquely,  futilely,  in  the  wrong  place,  failing  confusedly,  as  one  fails  in  dreams?  David  shouted  for  Helly  to  go  one  way  and  he  ran  the  other,  back  up  the  steps.  Clare  felt  a  passionate  revulsion  for  her  guests.  It  was  in  her  preoccupation  with  them  that  she  had  taken  her  atten-  tion  off  Rose:  she  had  been  talking  to  David,  pretending  she  was  interested  in  cameras.  If  Bram  had  been  with  them,  this  would  never  have  happened.  Franti-  cally,  puritanically,  Clare  linked  up  her  dereliction  with  other  falsities,  with  her  efforts  to  impress  upon  Helly  and  David  the  charms  of  family  life,  with  theper-  fume  she'd  sprayed  on,  with  Helly's  ad-  vertising  contract,  even  with  the  scorched  tinfoil  in  the  bathroom.  It  occurred  to  her  that  there  was  a  lit-  erary  tradition  of  guilty  women  whose  children  pay  for  their  mothers'  momen-  tary  lapses  of  attention,  their  casual  be-  trayals.  (In  the  mornings,  when  Rose  was  at  the  nursery,  Clare  was  writing  a  Ph.D.  thesis  on  George  Sand.)  Wasn't  there  a  scene  in  Flaubert-or  where  an  adulteress  watches  over  the  cot  of  a  sick  child,  pledging  the  whole  of  her  selfish  future  happiness  against  the  few  degrees  that  his  temperature  must  come  down  for  him  to  live?  At  that  moment,  Clare  imagined  such  a  scene,  if  it  existed,  quite  without  irony,  the  cheap  irony  that  smirks  at  literary  machinery.  It  seemed  a  revelation  of  a  naked  truth.  Also,  she  suddenly,  dimly,  remem-  bered  someone  called  Tim  Dashwood,  and  odd  details  of  a  party  she  had  gone  to  at  his  flat  when  she  was  a  teen-ager:  a  plastic  armchair  pocked  with  cigarette  burns,  the  suspect  slickness  of  a  greasy  carpet  under  bare  dancing  feet,  men  with  ponytails  and  slow-burning  smiles  who  brought  her  and  Helly  drinks  in  plastic  cups  and  didn't  even  bother  to  learn  their  names.  Like  good  little  girls,  they  swallowed  and  smoked  everything  that  was  put  in  front  of  them.  The  slow  black  ink  mushroom-clouding  in  her  mind  came  back  to  her,  a  fearful  sen-  sation  of  cold  deep  water  slipping  past,  tugging  the  ground  out  from  under  her.  All  sorts  of  things  could  have  hap-  pened  to  them-did  happen  to  them-  at  those  parties.  She  splashed  out  of  the  water  and  ran  along  the  shoreline,  stag-  gering  with  the  pain  in  her  feet,  shout-  ing  for  Rose.  A  high  sheer  stone  wall  came  down  into  the  water,  too  high  for  Rose  to  have  climbed.  Clare  ran  back  up  the  beach  alongside  it,  her  breath  coming  jaggedly  in  sobs,  and  stopped  to  peer  into  a  tunnel  that  pierced  the  wall,  wide  enough  for  a  child  to  craw!  into:  it  was  dark  and  foul  inside,  with  nameless  black  shapes  half  submerged  in  an  oily  puddle,  but  no  Rose.  Clare  became  convinced  again  that  she  was  being  dangerously  distracted  from  the  real  disaster,  which  was  happening  somewhere  else,  and  she  ran  back  down  to  the  sea.  avid  found  Rose.  She  was  quite  unhurt  and  only  thirty  yards  from  where  they  had  been  standing  and  shouting,  hidden  from  them  by  a  grassy  bluff.  Afterward,  Clare  made  him  show  her  the  place,  at  the  back  of  the  beach,  where  a  wet  trickle  that  might  have  been  a  stream  and  might  have  been  sewage  emerged  from  a  big  concrete  pipe  set  into  an  earth  bank.  Rose  had  been  dab-  bling  her  feet  where  the  water  spilled  over  the  lip  of  the  pipe.  She  might  have  been  contemplating  crawling  up  into  the  pipe;  and  possibly,  if  it  had  rained  (as  it  proceeded  to  do  shortly  after  she  was  found),  there  might  have  been  a  rush  of  water  off  the  land.  But  these  dangers  were  too  remote  to  count,  or  even  to  produce  any  retrospective  jolt  of  horror  at  a  tragedy  narrowly  skirted.  The  only  one  hurt  was  Clare,  who  had  cut  her  foot  on  something  in  the  water.  David  looked  funny-improbable-  holding  a  pink  naked  baby,  balancing  her  as  he  picked  his  way  down  the  beach,  wary  and  concentrated.  Rose  clung  on  with  her  arms  round  his  neck.  Clare  had  known,  all  the  time  they  were  looking  for  Rose,  that  if  anything  bad-any-  thing  sickeningly  terrible-had  hap-  pened  she  would  never  have  seen  either  of  them  again,  David  or  Helly.  There  would  have  been  a  few  hours  of  un-  speakable  practicalities  with  doctors  and  police,  they  would  have  gotout  of  it  as  soon  as  they  decently  could  and  driven  back  to  [REDACTED]  in  their  special  Citroén  thatrose  upon  its  wheels  when  you  started  it,  and  Clare  would  never,  ever,  in  the  remainder  of  her  ruined  life  have  been  able  to  forgive  them  their  associa-  tion  with  that  day.  But  now  they  were  all  reprieved;  now  she  could  like  these  friends  again  and  smile  at  them.  David    was  pleased  with  himself  for  having  found  Rose,  and  he  tickled  her  awk-  wardly  on  the  cheek;she  held  on  as  he  handed  her  over,  and  Clare,  up  close,  felt  the  friendly  heat  of  him.  Now  she  would  be  ableto  tell  Bram  that  they  had  lost  Rose,  and  it  would  mean  only  an  or-  dinary  manageable  hitch  in  the  day.  He  would  not  be  ableto  see  through  it  to  any  deep  dereliction,  any  dangerous  ab-  sence  of  mind.  Helly  put  her  cardigan  around  Clare's  shoulders  as  the  rain  came  pattering  in  dark  spots  on  the  stones,  and  tried  to  help  her  get  Rose  dressed,  pulling  tight  socks  on  the  wet  feet,  a  T-shirt  on  the  twisting  little  body.  &quot;You're  a  naughty,  naughty  girl,&quot;  Clare  said.  &quot;You  mustn't  take  your  clothes  off,  and  you  mustn't  wander  away.  Mummy  was  seriously  frightened.&quot;  Helly  looked  abashed  at  what  the  moment  had  unleashed  in  Clare,  the  ex-  cess  of  reaction.  It  was  excessive,  Clare  supposed-all  that  shrieking  and  thrash-  ing  about  in  the  water,  and  the  cut  foot,  which  was  bleeding  now  into  her  shoe.  But  she  felt  rather  recklessly  as  if  she'd  shown  Helly  something,  something  that  she  couldn't  have  known  about,  being  childless.  lare  sat  with  her  knees  drawnup  under  her  chin  on  her  big  un-  made  brass  bed,  opposite  Helly,  who  was  cross-legged  at  the  pillow  end.  She  had  bathed  her  cut  with  antiseptic  and  checked  that  her  tetanus  injection  was  still  up-to-date  (Bram  kept  meticulous  records  of  these  things).  Her  foot  was  aching.  David  had  taken  Coco  and  Lily  out  for  a  drive  in  his  car,  &quot;to  leave  the  girls  to  talk,&quot;  as  he  put  it.  Rose  was  asleep  in  her  cot.  &quot;So,  what's  he  like?&quot;  Clare  asked.  &quot;He's  nice,&quot;  Helly  said.  &quot;Nicer  proba-  bly  than  you'd  think.  He  can  seem  a  bit  full  of  himself.&quot;  &quot;I  like  him  better  than  the  last  one.&quot;  A  little  involuntary  spasm  of  pain  and  regret  twisted  Helly's  expression.  &quot;Everyone  but  me  could  see  it.  But  David's  much  more  steady,  don't  you  think?&quot;  Clare  thought  of  him  finding  Rose.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  seems  kind.  And  sensible.&quot;  &quot;I  know  he  shows  off  a  bit.&quot;  &quot;Not  in  the  least,&quot;  Clare  protested  stoutly.  &quot;He's  just  exuberant.  He  knows  how  to  enjoy  himself.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes.  He  certainly  knows  that.&quot;  Helly  thoughtfully  closed  her  teeth  on  the  cuff  of  her  shirtsleeve  and  pulled  at  it,  not  meeting  Clare's  eyes,  sharing  some  joke  with  herself.  Bram  thought  it  was  just  a  sensible  shirt;  Clare  had  rec-  ognized  something  expensive  and  per-  fect  of  its  kind,  all  the  better  for  being  casual  and  crumpled.  Clare  stiffened.  &quot;Meaning?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  know  ...  Do  you  remember  Moments  of  Beauty?&quot;  This  was  private  jargon  from  a  game  they  had  played  when  they  were  teen-  agers:  winding  pop  videos  and  films  backward  and  forward  to  isolate  the  &quot;mo-  ment  of  beauty&quot;  for  their  favorite  male  stars,  the  summation  of  what  melted  and  undid  them,  some  grin,  some  sleepy  in-  advertent  glance,  some  lazy  look  of  sex-  ual  appraisal.  They  had  even  tried  for  a  while  to  isolate  their  own  moments  of  beauty  in  the  mirror,  so  as  to  work  on  them.  &quot;Well?&quot;  &quot;David's  very  good,  sexually.  You  couldn't  really  know  him-I  mean,  what's  so  appealing  about  him-without  knowing  that.  It's  his  moment.&quot;  Clare  braced  herself  against  the  end  of  the  bed.  She  felt  caught  out  in  the  very  scene  of  her  decent  connubial  sat-  isfactions:  the  duvet  cover  they  sat  on  was  faded  and  flowery,  and  its  fasteners  were  missing  sothat  innards  of  gray  duvet  spilled  out  of  one  end.  One  of  Rose's  Teddies  lay  between  the  pillows  with  an  air  of  baleful  occupation,  and  for  some  reason  Clare  was  visited  by  a  memory  of  Bram  calling  out  to  her  in  the  bathroom  not  to  run  the  tap  while  she  was  cleaning  her  teeth  because  it  wasted  water.  &quot;I  see,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  do  all  kinds  of  things  I  never  thought  I'd  do.&quot;  &quot;Oh?  Such  as?&quot;  &quot;Well.  Mirrors.&quot;     174  TUE  NEW!  ADYED  EFRDNAD/  10  c  ar  anno  &quot;You  mean  mirrors  on  the  ceiling  and  that  kind  of  thing?&quot;  &quot;And  cameras.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  Helly,  that's  awful.&quot;  &quot;No,  really,  it's  not.&quot;  Helly  laughed.  &quot;But  it's  so  cold!  I  just  don't  think  that  would  give  me  any  pleasure,  thinking  about  it  and  setting  about  it  in  that  de-  liberate  kind  of  way.&quot;  &quot;You'd  be  surprised.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  it  supposed  to  just  happen  spontaneously?  Isn't  there  something  wrong  if  you  have  to  plan  for  it?&quot;  &quot;He  just  naturally  likes  women,&quot;  Helly  said.  &quot;You  think  you  can  take  that  for  granted-I  mean,  under  the  circum-  stances-but,  believe  me,  I'm  beginning  to  realize  that  lots  of  men  don't  like  women,  whatever  they  say.  .  ..  Really,  it's  special,  he  has  this  look.  .  ..  I  can  always  tell  when  he  likes  someone.  And  we've  done  three  in  abed.&quot;  Clare  genuinely  shrank  in  disapproval  from  all  this:  even  talking  about  it  seemed  a  betrayal  of  what  she  believed  was  her  grownup  self,  watching  over  the  kind  of  sacred  bedroom  secrets  that  de-  cent  grownup  couples  share.  At  the  same  time,  she  was  seized  with  a  curiosity  as  urgent  as  a  cramp.  &quot;With  another  woman?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;God,  Helly.  What  was  that  like?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,  you  know-strange  and  familiar.  You  ought  to  try  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  thank  you.  I'm  quite  happy  as  I  am.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  found  the  other  day?&quot;  Helly  said  suddenly,  with  a  blithe  quick  laugh.  &quot;I  found  a  little  box  of  earrings.&quot;  &quot;Earrings?&quot;  &quot;Among  David's  things.  Just  single  earrings.  At  first  I  thought  maybe  he  hadhad  his  ear  pierced  at  some  point.  But  some  of  these  just  weren't  that  sort  of  earring,  not  the  kind  that  a  man  would  wear.&quot;  &quot;So  where  do  you  think  they  came  from?&quot;  &quot;I  think  he  collected  them.  In  the  past.  From  other  women.  As  souvenirs.&quot;  &quot;How  many  were  there?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  count.  I  don't  know.  Quite  a  lot:  they  were  all  in  a  tangle  to-  gether.  I  put  them  back  and  I  haven't  looked  at  them  again.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  it  doesn'tmatter,&quot;  Clare  said.  &quot;As  you  say,  it  was  probably  all  years  ago.  But  aren't  you  afraid  of  AIDS  and  things?&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  Helly  said  lightly.  &quot;I  made  him  be  tested.&quot;  here  is  a  minute  or  two  on  the  video  where  Toby  catches  David  sitting  alone  in  the  front  room  in  the  not-so-comfortable  chair.  David  looks  up  at  him  and  then  away  again,  ab-  sorbed  in  thinking  about  something.  He's  photogenic;  all  those  things  about  him  that  seem  exaggerated  and  over-  eager  in  the  flesh-the  hard  curved  cheekbones,  the  spiky  thick  hair,  the  big  mouth-are  toned  down  by  the  camera.  Clare  rewinds  the  video.  (This  is  weeks  later,  when  Toby  sends  her  a  copy  of  his  final  version.)  She  likes  his  smile,  the  lazy  look  he  gives  Toby,  lids  half  closed,  eyebrows  raised,  long  cheeks  in  shadow.  She  rewinds  it  because  she  can't  work  out  what  he's  doing  in  there.  This  is  after  he  brings  the  children  back  from  their  trip  in  his  special  car.  (Lily  came  in  full  of  tales  about  how  he  made  the  car  dance,  taking  his  foot  on  and  off  the  brake  in  time  to  the  music  on  his  stereo.  Coco  was  disgusted  at  his  show-  ing  off.  Only  Rose  really  liked  him-  she  had  chosen  him,  there  on  the  beach,  Rose  the  child  Clare  thinks  of  as  most  like  herself.)  Helly  is  in  the  kitchen  helping  Clare  get  supper  ready  (only  not  helping  much).  Bram  is  taking  a  shower.  The  children  are  on  the  stairs,  playing  something  noisy  that  involves  tipping  out  all  the  contents  of  the  toy  basket.  David  is  looking  at  her  books.  He  isn't  looking  at  them  as  a  reader  might,  getting  close  to  see  the  titles,  pulling  them  out  and  opening  them  up.  He  isn't  a  reader-she's  already  worked  that  out.  He's  just  sitting  with  his  head  thrown  back  and  one  leg  propped  across  the  other,  surveying  her  books  with  a  kind  of  thoughtful  smile  as  if  putting  to-  gether  some  idea  of  the  sort  of  person  who  might  want  to  read  all  these,  some-  one  whose  life  was  hidden  under  these  covers.  Clare  feels  slightly  uneasy,  and  amused,  watching  him  looking.  He  may,  of  course,  have  completely  the  wrong  idea  of  what  is  in  her  books.  People  who  don't  read  often  imagine  thata  life  lived  with  books  is  serenely  truthful,  perhaps  rather  idealistic,  ele-  vated  to  a  higher  sphere  above  the  trick-  eries  and  treacheries  of  real  life.  Com-  bined  with  the  children,  and  the  little  house  without  a  television,  and  the  mak-  ing  of  her  own  bread  and  the  salting  of  lemons,  the  books  may  make  him  think  she  is  wholesome  and  sane.  He  may  think  that  he  is  much  more  devious  than  she  is.  hree  days  after  the  visit,  an  envelope  came  in  the  post  addressed  to  Clare.  Bram  had  left  for  work,  and  she  was  on  her  way  to  take  the  kids  to  school,  pin-  ning  Rose  down  in  herpushchair  to  fas-  ten  her  straps.  She  didn't  recognize  the  handwriting:  she  tore  it  open,  shouting  at  Coco  to  get  his  lunchbox.  Inside,  wrapped  ina  slip  of  tissue  paper,  was  a  single  earring.  As  soon  as  she  got  home  from  deliv-  ering  the  children,  she  dug  out  an  old  jewel  box  she  kept  in  a  drawer  in  her  bedroom  (the  box  had  been  her  grand-  mother's  and  had  once  played  music);  it  held  a  jumble  of  souvenirs  and  junk,  mu-  seum  tickets,  suitcase  keys,  bills  from  cafés  that  she  and  Bram  had  been  toin  4974616c79  and  [REDACTED],  picture  hooks,  the  tassel  from  an  old  embroidered  belt.  She  scrabbled  in  the  mess  of  tarnished  or  damaged  jewelry  and  drawing  pins  at  the  bottom  of  the  box  and  found  the  earring  that  matched  the  one  she  had  been  sent.  It  was  black,  of  course,  gothic  black  and  silver:  to  go  with  the  lipstick  and  the  nails.  She  would  never  have  recognized  him.  It  was  only  then  that  she  really  re-  membered  what  had  happened  at  that  party  of  Tim  Dashwood's.  Remembered  something,  anyway:  some  hasty,  proba-  bly  bungled  thing  on  someone's  sleeping  bag  under  a  poster  of  Gregory  Isaacs.  She  burned  now  to  think  of  it.  David  had  never  given  any  sign,  all  weekend,  that  he  remembered.  If  he  had  said  anything,  or  even  looked  sig-  nificantly  at  her,  then  the  whole  thing  might  have  been  only  funny  or  embar-  rassing.  As  it  was,  the  broken  talisman  that  had  been  restored  (that's  how  Clare  thought  of  it-she  kept  the  two  ear-  rings  far  apart  from  each  other  in  differ-  ent  hiding  places)  seemed  to  have  an  oc-  cult  power  to  frighten  and  excite  her,  so  that  for  a  while  she  simply  didn't  know  what  would  happen  to  her  next,  or  what  she  might  do.  