BOHEMIA
By V Naipaul

Willie Chandran went to [REDACTED] by ship. And everything about the journey so frightened him—the size of the country he was leaving, the crowds in the port, the number of ships in the harbor, the confidence of the people on the ship—that he found himself unwilling to speak, at first out of pure worry, and then, when he discovered that silence brought him strength, out of policy. So he looked without trying to see and heard without listening; and yet later—just as after an illness it may be possible for someone to recall everything he had at the time only half noticed—he was to find that he had stored up all the details of that stupendous first crossing.
He knew that [REDACTED] was a great city. His idea of a great city was of a fairyland of splendor and dazzle, and when he got to [REDACTED] and began walking about its streets he felt let down. He didn't know what he was looking at. The little booklets and folders he picked up or bought at [REDACTED] stations didn't help; they assumed that the local sights they were writing about were famous and well understood; and really Willie knew little more of [REDACTED] than the name.
The only two places he knew about were Buckingham Palace and Speakers' Corner. He was disappointed by Buckingham Palace. He thought the maharaja's palace in his own state was far grander, more like a palace, and this made him feel, in a small part of his heart, that the kings and queens of [REDACTED] were impostors, and the country a little bit of a sham. His disappointment turned to something like shame—at himself, for his gullibility—when he went to Speakers' Corner. He had heard of this place in the general-knowledge class at the mission school and he had written knowingly about it in more than one end-of-term examination. He expected big, radical, shouting crowds, like those his mother's uncle, the firebrand of the backward, used to address. He didn't expect to see an idle scatter of people around half a dozen talkers, with the big buses and the cars rolling indifferently by all the time. Some of the talkers had very personal religious ideas, and Willie, remembering his own home life, thought that the families of these men might have been glad to get them out of the house in the afternoons.
He turned away from the depressing scene and began to walk down one of the paths beside Bayswater Road. He walked without seeing, thinking of the hopelessness of home and his own nebulous present. All at once, in the most magical way, he was lifted out of himself. He saw, walking toward him on the path, half leaning on the stick he carried, a man famous beyond imagining, and now casual and solitary and grand among the afternoon strollers. Willie looked hard. He felt ennobled by the sight and presence of the great man.
The man was tall and slender, very dark and striking, in a formal charcoal double-breasted suit that emphasized his slenderness. His crinkly hair was combed back flat above a long, narrow face with an amazing hawklike nose. Every detail of the man approaching him answered the photographs Willie knew. It was Krishna Menon, the close friend of Mr. Nehru, and 496e646961's spokesman in international forums. He was looking down as he walked, preoccupied. He looked up, saw Willie, and out of a clouded face flashed him a friendly satanic smile. Willie had never expected to be acknowledged by the great man. And then, before he could work out what to do, he and Krishna Menon had crossed, and the dazzling moment was over.
A day or so later, in the little common room of the college, he saw in a newspaper that Krishna Menon had passed through [REDACTED] on his way to [REDACTED] and the United Nations. He had stayed at Claridge's hotel. Willie looked at maps and directories and worked out that Krishna Menon might simply have walked that afternoon from the hotel to the park, to think about the speech he was soon going to make. The speech was to be about the invasion of [REDACTED] by [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] and others.
Willie knew nothing about that invasion. The invasion had apparently been caused by the nationalization of the Suez Canal, and Willie knew nothing about that, either. He knew, from his school geography lessons, about the Suez Canal, and one of the [REDACTED] movies they had shown at the mission school was "Suez." But in Willie's mind neither his school geography nor "Suez" was strictly real. Neither had to do with the here and now; neither affected him or his family or his town; and he had no idea of the history of the canal or [REDACTED]. He knew the name of Colonel Nasser, the 4567797074ian leader, but it was only in the way he knew about Krishna Menon: he knew about the greatness of the man without knowing about the deeds. At home he had read the newspapers, but he read them in his own way. He had learned to shut out the main stories, the ones about far-off wars or election campaigns in [REDACTED] which meant nothing to him and went on week after week and were slow and repetitive and then ended, very often quite lamely, giving, like a bad book or movie, nothing or very little for much effort and attention. So, just as on the ship Willie was able to watch without seeing and hear without listening, Willie at home for many years read the newspapers without taking in the news. He knew the big names; very occasionally he looked at the main headline; but that was all.
Now, after his sight of Krishna Menon in the park, he was amazed at how little he knew of the world around him. He began to read about the 4567797074ian crisis in the newspapers, but he didn't understand what he read. He knew too little about the background, and newspaper stories were like serials; it was necessary to know what had gone before. So he began to read about [REDACTED] in the college library, and he floundered. It was like moving very fast and having no fixed markers to give an idea of position and speed. His ignorance seemed to widen with everything he read. He turned in the end to a cheap history of the world published during the war. This he could hardly understand. It was as with the leaflets about [REDACTED] in the [REDACTED] stations: the book assumed that the reader already knew about famous events. Willie thought he was swimming in ignorance, had lived without a knowledge of time. He remembered one of the things his mother's uncle used to say: that the backward had been shut out for so long from society that they knew nothing of 496e646961, nothing of the other religions, nothing even of the religion of the people of caste, whose serfs they were.
His father had given him names of people he should get in touch with. Willie hadn't intended to do so. Very few of the names meant anything to him, and he wished, in [REDACTED], to get by on his own. That didn't prevent him boasting of the names in the college. He dropped the names in an innocent, trying-out way, gauging the weight of each name from the way people reacted to it. And now, out of his new feeling of ignorance and shame, his developing vision of a world too big for him, Willie wrote to one of them, a journalist whose name he had seen in big letters in one of the newspapers.

The journalist replied. Dear Chandran, Of course I remember your father. My favourite babu . . . "Babu," an Anglicized 496e646961n, was a mistake; the word should have been "sadhu," an ascetic. But Willie didn't mind. The letter seemed friendly. It asked Willie to come to the newspaper office, and early one afternoon a week or so later Willie made his way to Fleet Street. It was warm and bright, but Willie had been made to believe that it rained all the time in [REDACTED], and he wore a raincoat. The raincoat was very thin, of a rubbery material that sweated on the very smooth inside almost as soon as it was worn; so that by the time Willie had got to the big black newspaper building the top and sides of his jacket and the back of his collar were damp, and when he took off the sweated, clinging raincoat he looked as though he had walked through a drizzle.
He gave his name to a man in uniform, and after a while the journalist, in a dark suit and not young, came down and he and Willie talked standing up in the lobby. They didn't get on. They didn't have anything to talk about. The journalist asked about the babu; Willie didn't correct him; and when they had finished that subject they both looked about them. The journalist began to talk about the newspaper in a defensive way, and Willie understood that the newspaper didn't like 496e646961n independence and was not friendly to 496e646961, and that the journalist himself had written some hard pieces after his visit to the country.
The journalist said, "It's Beaverbrook, really. He has no time for 496e646961ns. He's like Churchill in some respects."
Willie said, "Who is Beaverbrook?"
The journalist dropped his voice. "He's our proprietor." It amused him that Willie didn't know something so stupendous.
Willie noticed, and thought, I am glad I didn't know. I am glad I wasn't impressed.
Somebody had come through the main door, which was at Willie's back. The journalist looked to one side of Willie, to follow the progress of the new arrival.
He said, with awe, "That's our editor."
Willie saw a dark-suited middle-aged man, pink-faced after lunch, going up the steps at the far side of the lobby.
The journalist, gazing at his editor, said, "His name is Arthur Christiansen. They say he is the greatest editor in the world." Then, as though speaking to himself, he said, "It takes a lot to get there." Willie looked with the journalist at the great man going up the steps. Then, setting aside that mood, the journalist said in a jokey way, "I hope you haven't come to ask for his job."
Willie didn't laugh. He said, "I'm a student. I am here on a scholarship. I am not looking for a job."
"Where are you?"
Willie gave the name of his college.
The journalist didn't know it. Willie thought, He's trying to insult me. My college is quite big and quite real.
The journalist said in his new jokey way, "Are you asthmatic? I ask only because our proprietor is asthmatic and he has a special feeling for asthmatics. If you wanted a job, it would be something in your favor."
At the college Willie had to relearn everything that he knew. He had to learn how to eat in public. He had to learn how to greet people and how, having greeted them, not to greet them all over again in a public place ten or fifteen minutes later. He had to learn to close doors behind him. He had to learn how to ask for things without being peremptory.
The college was a semi-charitable Victorian foundation and it was modelled on Oxford and [REDACTED]. That was what the students were often told. And because the college was like Oxford and [REDACTED] it was full of various pieces of "tradition" that the teachers and students were proud of but couldn't explain. There were rules, for instance, about dress and behavior in the dining hall; and there were quaint, beer-drinking punishments for misdemeanors. Students had to wear black gowns on formal occasions. When Willie asked about the gowns, he was told by one of the lecturers that it was what was done at Oxford and [REDACTED], and that the academic gown was descended from the ancient Roman toga. Willie, not knowing enough to be awed, looked up the matter in various books in the college library. He read that, in spite of all the toga-clad statues from the ancient world, no one had so far been able to work out how the old Romans put on their togas. The academic gown probably was copied from the Islamic seminaries of a thousand years ago, and that Islamic style would have been copied from something earlier. So it was a piece of make-believe.
Yet something strange was happening. Gradually, learning the quaint rules of his college, with the churchy Victorian buildings pretending to be older than they were, Willie began to see in a new way the rules he had left behind at home. He began to see—and it was upsetting, at first—that the old rules were themselves a kind of make-believe, self-imposed. And one day, toward the end of his second term, he saw with great clarity that the old rules no longer bound him.
His mother's firebrand uncle had agitated for years for freedom for the backward. Willie had always put himself on that side. Now he saw that the freedom the firebrand had been agitating about was his for the asking. No one he met, in the college or outside it, knew the rules of Willie's own place, and Willie began to understand that he was free to present himself as he wished. He could, as it were, write his own revolution. The possibilities were dizzying. He could, within reason, remake himself and his past and his ancestry.
He began to alter things about himself, but in small, comfortable ways. He had no big overriding idea. He took a point here and another there. The newspapers, for instance, were full of news about the trade unions, and it occurred to Willie one day that his mother's uncle—the firebrand of the backward, who sometimes at public meetings wore a red scarf (in imitation of his hero, the famous backward revolutionary and atheistic poet Bharatidasan)—was a kind of trade-union leader, a pioneer of workers' rights. He let drop the fact in conversation and in tutorials, and he noticed that it cowed people.
His new confidence began to draw people to him. One of them was [REDACTED] Cato. [REDACTED] was a 4a616d61696361n of mixed parentage and was more brown than black. Willie and [REDACTED], both exotics, both on scholarships, had been wary of one another in the beginning, but now they met easily and began to exchange stories of their antecedents. [REDACTED], explaining his ancestry, said, "I think I even have an 496e646961n grandmother." [REDACTED] put his hand on his crinkly hair and said, "The Negro is actually recessive." Willie didn't understand what [REDACTED] meant. He knew only that [REDACTED] had worked out a story to explain his own appearance. He was a 4a616d61696361n but not strictly of [REDACTED]. He was born in [REDACTED] and had grown up there. He said, "I am the only black man or 4a616d61696361n or West 496e646961n you'll meet in [REDACTED] who knows nothing about cricket."

Willie said, "How did you get to [REDACTED]?"
"My father went to work on the [REDACTED] Canal."
"Like the Suez Canal?" It was still in the news.
"This was before the First War."
In his mission-school way Willie looked up the [REDACTED] Canal in the college library. And there it all was, in grainy, touched-up, imprecise, black-bordered photographs in old encyclopedias and annuals: the great, waterless engineering works before the First War, with gangs of faceless black workers, possibly 4a616d61696361ns, in the waterless locks. One of those black men might have been [REDACTED]'s father.
He asked [REDACTED] in the common room, "What did your father do in the [REDACTED] Canal?"
"He was a clerk. You know those people. They can't read and write at all."
Willie thought, He's lying. That's a foolish story. His father went there as a laborer. He would have been in one of the gangs, holding his pickax before him on the ground, like the others, and looking obediently at the photographer.
Until then Willie hadn't really known what to make of a man who appeared to have no proper place in the world and could be both Negro and not Negro in his ways. When [REDACTED] was in his Negro mode he claimed fellowship with Willie; in the other mode he wanted to keep Willie at a distance. Now, with that picture in his head of [REDACTED]'s father standing, like a soldier at ease, with both hands on the heft of his pickax in the hot [REDACTED] sun, Willie felt he knew him a little better.
Willie had been very careful with what he had told [REDACTED] about himself, and it was easier now for him to be with [REDACTED]. He felt he stood a rung or two or many rungs above [REDACTED], and he was more willing to acknowledge [REDACTED] as the man-about-town, the man who knew more about [REDACTED] and Western ways. [REDACTED] was flattered, and he became Willie's guide to the city.
[REDACTED] loved clothes. He always wore a suit and a tie. His shirt collars were always clean and starched and stiff, and his shoes were always polished, with new-looking insteps and heels that were nice and solid and never worn down. [REDACTED] knew about cloth and the cut of suits and hand stitching, and he could spot these things on people as he walked. Good clothes seemed, almost, to have a moral quality for him; he respected people who respected clothes.
Willie knew nothing about clothes. He had five white shirts and—since the college laundry went off once a week—he had to keep one shirt going for two or three days. He had one tie, a burgundy-colored Tootal cotton tie that cost six shillings. Every three months he bought a new one and threw away the old one, dreadfully stained and too wrinkled to knot. He had one jacket, a light-green thing that didn't absolutely fit and couldn't hold a shape. He had paid three pounds for it at a sale of the Fifty Shilling Tailors in the Strand. He didn't think of himself as badly dressed, and it was some time before he noticed that [REDACTED] was particular about clothes and liked to talk about them. He used to wonder about this taste of [REDACTED]'s. A fussiness about cloth and color was something he associated with women. It was wrong and effeminate and idle in a man. But now he thought he understood why [REDACTED] loved clothes and, more than clothes, shoes. And then he found he was wrong about the effeminacy.
[REDACTED] said one day, "My girlfriend is coming this Saturday." Women were allowed in the students' rooms on weekends. "I don't know whether you have noticed, Willie, but on weekends the college rocks with fuck."
Willie was full of excitement and jealousy, especially because of the blunt and easy way [REDACTED] had spoken. He said, "I would like to meet your girlfriend."
[REDACTED] said, "Come and have a drink on Saturday." And Willie could hardly wait for Saturday.
A little while later he asked [REDACTED], "What is the name of your girlfriend?"
[REDACTED] said, with surprise, "June."
The name was fragrant for Willie. And later, during the same conversation, he asked as casually as he could, "What does June do?"
"She works at the perfume counter in Debenhams."
Perfume counter, Debenhams: the words intoxicated Willie. [REDACTED] noticed and, wishing to add to his grand [REDACTED] effect, said, "Debenhams is a big store in Oxford Street."
After a while Willie asked, "Was that where you met June? At the perfume counter in Debenhams?"
"I met her at the club."
"Club!"
"A drinking place where I used to work."
Willie was shocked, but he thought he should hide it. He said, "Of course."
[REDACTED] said, "I worked there before coming here. It was owned by a friend of mine. I can take you if you want."
They went by [REDACTED] to Marble Arch. That was where, many months before, Willie had got off to go to look for Speakers' Corner, and had had the adventure of seeing Krishna Menon. It was quite another [REDACTED] Willie had in mind when he and [REDACTED] made for a quiet narrow street north of Oxford Street at the back of a big hotel. The club, announced by the smallest of signs, was a shut-in, very dark room off a lobby. A black man was behind the counter, and a woman with pale hair and pale, overpowdered skin and a pale dress was sitting on a stool. They both greeted [REDACTED]. Willie was stirred, not by the beauty of the woman—she had little of that, and seemed to get older the more he looked at her—but by her coarseness, her tawdriness, by her being there in the afternoon, by her having prepared so carefully for being there, and by the very strong idea of vice. [REDACTED] ordered whiskey for both of them, though neither he nor Willie was a drinker; and they sat and didn't drink, and [REDACTED] talked.
[REDACTED] said, "I was the front-of-house man here, being smooth with the smooth and rough with the rough. It was all I could get. In a place like [REDACTED], a man like me has to take what he can get. I thought one day I should ask for a piece of the business. My friend cut up rough. I thought I should leave, to save the friendship. My friend's a dangerous man."
Willie said, "And June came here one day, from the perfume counter at Debenhams?"
"It's not far away. It's an easy walk."
Willie, though not knowing where Debenhams was, tried many times to re-create in his mind that walk from Debenhams to the club.
He saw June on Saturday in [REDACTED]'s room. She was a big girl in a tight skirt that showed off her hips. She filled the small room with her perfume. Willie had never known perfume like that—that mingled smell of excrement and sweat and deep, piercing, many-sided sweetness from no simple source.
They were sitting together on the small college sofa and he allowed himself to press against her, more and more, while he took in her perfume, her plucked eyebrows, the depilated but slightly bristly legs she had drawn up below her.

[REDACTED] noticed but said nothing. Willie took that as the act of a friend. And June herself was gentle and yielding, even with [REDACTED] looking on. Willie had read that gentleness and softness in her face. When the time came for him to leave June and [REDACTED] to what they had to do, he was in a state. He thought he should look for a prostitute. He knew nothing about prostitutes, but he knew the reputation of some of the streets near Piccadilly Circus. But he didn't in the end have the courage. 

On Monday he went to Debenhams. The girls at the perfume counter took fright at him, and he took fright at them, powdered, unreal, with strange lashes, and looking plucked and shaved like shop chickens. But he eventually found June. In this setting of glass and glitter and artificial light—an extraordinary [REDACTED], such as he had looked for in the streets when he had just arrived—she was tall and soft and coarse and quite luscious. He could scarcely bear to consider all that had stirred him on Saturday. Below black-line eyebrows and mother-of-pearl eyelids her long eyelashes swept upward. She greeted him without surprise. He was relieved, and even before he had spoken half a dozen words he saw that she understood his need and was going to be gentle with him. Even then, he found he didn't know how to press the matter, what words to use. All he could say was "Would you like to see me, June?"
She said, very simply, "Of course, Willie."
"Can we meet today? When you finish work."
''Where should we meet?"
"The club."
"[REDACTED]'s old place? You have to be a member, you know." In the afternoon, he went to the club, to see whether he could join. There was no trouble. Again, puzzlingly, there was no one there, apart from the very white woman on the stool and the black barman. The barman (who was perhaps in these quiet periods doing the job [REDACTED] had done in the old days, being smooth with the smooth and rough with the rough) made Willie fill in a form. Willie then paid five pounds (he was living on seven pounds a week), and the barman—making little circles with his pen before he began to write, like a weight lifter making feints at a mighty weight on the floor before he actually lifted—took a little time to write out Willie's name on a small membership card.
He watched the street for many minutes before the appointed time, not wishing to be at the club first and then perhaps to be disappointed, and while he watched he played with pictures of June at the end of her working day getting ready somewhere and making her way from Debenhams to the club. He greeted her in the doorway when she came and they went inside, into the dark bar. The barman knew her, and the woman on the stool knew her, and Willie was pleased to be there with someone known. He bought drinks, expensive, fifteen shillings for the two, and all the while in the dark room he was smelling June's perfume and pressing against her and not paying attention to what he was saying.
She said, "We can't go to the college. [REDACTED] wouldn't like it, and I can go there only on weekends." A little later she said, "All right. We'll go to the other place. We'll have to take a taxi."
The driver made a face when she gave the address. The taxi took them away from the enchanted area of Marble Arch and Bayswater. It then turned north and very soon they were in wretched streets: big unkempt houses, without rails or fences, dustbins outside front windows. They stopped outside one such house. With the tip the fare was five shillings.
At the top of a railless flight of steps, a big, beaten-up door, with layers of old paint showing through in many places, led to a wide, dark hall smelling of old dirt, still with gas brackets on the walls. The wallpaper was almost black at the top; the linoleum on the floor ground down to no color, though with pieces of the original pattern still at the edges. The stairs at the end of the hall were wide—old style there—but the wooden bannisters were rough with grime. The landing window was unwashed and cracked, and the ground at the back was full of rubbish.
June said, "It isn't the Ritz, but the natives are friendly."
Willie wasn't so sure. Most of the doors were closed. But here and there, as they climbed—the steps narrowing—doors half opened and Willie saw the scowling, lined, yellow faces of very old women. So close to Marble Arch, but it was like another city.
The room was small, with a mattress resting on newspapers on the bare floorboards. There was a chair and a towel and a naked hanging light bulb and not much else. June undressed methodically. It was too much for Willie. He hardly enjoyed the moment. In no time at all it was over for him, after a whole weekend of planning, after all the expense, and he didn't know what to say.
June, letting his head rest on her plump arm, said, "A friend of mine says it happens with 496e646961ns. It's because of the arranged marriages. They don't feel they have to try hard. My father said his father used to tell him, 'Satisfy the woman first. Then think of yourself.' I don't suppose you had anybody telling you anything like that."
He said, "Let me try again, June."
He tried again. It lasted longer, but June didn't say anything. And then, as before, the moment was over. The toilet was at the end of the black corridor. Spiderwebs, furry with dust, covered the high, rusting cistern, and hung like a kind of material on the small window at the top. June, when she came back, dressed very carefully. Willie didn't watch her. They walked down the steps without talking. A door opened and an old woman looked hard at them. An hour ago Willie would have minded; he didn't mind now. On a landing they saw a small black man with a broadtrimmed 4a616d61696361n hat that shadowed his face. His trousers, half of a zoot suit, tight at the ankles and ballooning all down his legs, were in a thin material meant for a warmer place. He looked at them for longer than he should. They walked down the poor streets, which were very quiet, with big windows blank with sagging curtains and makeshift blinds, to where there was the light of shops and reasonable traffic, [REDACTED] again. No taxi for them now. A bus for June—she talked of going to Marble Arch to get a bus to a place called Cricklewood. Another bus for Willie. Going back to the college, thinking of June going home, to some place he couldn't imagine, and then, thinking of [REDACTED], he felt the beginning of remorse. It didn't last. He kicked it aside. He found he was pleased with himself, after all. He had done a good, an immense, afternoon's work. He was a changed man. He would worry about the money side later.

When he next saw [REDACTED] he asked, "What's June's family like?"
"I don't know. I've never seen them. I don't think she likes them."
Later he went to the college library and looked at a Pelican paperback, "The Physiology of Sex." He had seen it around, but had been put off by the scientific title. The little wartime paperback was so tightly bound, with rusting metal staples, that it was hard sometimes to see the beginning of lines. He had to pull at the pages and hold the book at different angles. He came at last to what he was looking for. He read that the average man could keep going for ten to fifteen minutes. That was bad news. A line or two later it became much worse. He read that a "sexual athlete" could easily keep going for half an hour. The frivolous, gloating language—not something he expected in a serious Pelican book—was like a blow. He rejected what he had read, and read no more.
When he next saw [REDACTED] he asked, "How did you learn about sex, [REDACTED]?"
[REDACTED] said, "You have to start small. We all started small. Practicing on the little girls. Don't look so shocked, little Willie. I am sure you don't know everything that was happening in your extended family. Your trouble, Willie, is that you are too neat. People look at you and don't see you."
"You are neater than me. Always in a suit and a nice shirt."
"I make women nervous. They are frightened of me. That's the way for you, Willie. Sex is a brutal business. You have to be brutal."
"Is June frightened of you?"
"She is scared stiff of me. Ask her."
Willie thought he should tell [REDACTED] about what had happened. But he didn't know what words to use. Something from an old movie came to him, and he was on the point of saying, "June and I are in love, [REDACTED]." But he didn't like the words, and they refused to come out.
Just a week or so later he was glad he hadn't said anything. [REDACTED]—the man-about-town—took him to a party in Notting Hill one Saturday evening. Willie knew nobody there and he stuck to [REDACTED]. June came in after a while. And a little while after that [REDACTED] said to Willie, "This party is dull like hell. June and I are going back to the college to fuck."
Willie looked at June and said, "Is that true?"
She said in her simple way, "Yes, Willie."
If anybody had asked him, Willie would have said that [REDACTED] was teach-ing him about English life. In fact, through [REDACTED], and without knowing what he was being introduced to, Willie was becoming part of the special, passing bohemian-immigrant life of [REDACTED] of the late nineteen-fifties. This hardly touched the traditional bohemian world of Soho. It was a little world on its own. The immigrants, from the Caribbean, and then the white colonies of Africa, and then Asia, had just arrived. They were still new and exotic; and there were English people both high and low, with a taste for social adventure, a wish from time to time to break out of [REDACTED], and people with colonial connections who wished in [REDACTED] to invert the social code of the colonies—there were English people who were ready to seek out the more stylish and approachable of the new arrivals. They met in Notting Hill, neutral territory, in dimly lit furnished flats in certain socially mixed squares; and they were gay and bright together. But few of the immigrants had proper jobs, or secure houses to go back to, and some of them were truly on the brink, and that gave an edge to the gaiety. 

