HOUSE  BY  MARTIN  ROPER The house  is  on  a  corner,  and  al-  though  my  father  always  said  never  to  buy  a  corner  house,  we  did.  Every-  thing  that  can  be  wrong  with  a  house  is  wrong  with  this  one:  the  roof  leaks,  the  guttering  needs  replacing,  there  are  bro-  ken  windows  and  the  frames  are  warped  and  rotten,  the  bath  is  cracked  and  the  toilet  solidly  blocked,  the  wiring  is  dangerous,  and  the  wallpaper  is  soaked  with  rising  damp.  Four  feet  of  plaster  will  have  to  be  hacked  off,  the  walls  drilled  and  injected  with  chemicals,  the  brick  then  left  bare  for  six  months  to  dry  out,  and,  finally,  the  walls  will  have  to  be  replastered.  Floor  and  ceiling  joists  are  rotten.  Once  the  renovations  begin,  a  ceiling  collapses,  barely  missing  the  gas  man  and  the  builder.  There  is  no  heat-  ing.  The  gas  cooker  fails  the  Bord  Gis  test  and  it  and  the  pipes  to  the  street  have  to  be  replaced.  It  is  a  dark  and  musty  house  on  a  corner  between  a  middle-class  and  a  working-class  area,  and  everyone  said  not  to  buy.  But  we  did  what  every  estate  agent  hopes  a  couple  will  do:  we  fell  in  love  with  what  the  house  could  be.  The  house,  likeus,  was  full  of  potential  and  hope.  We  are  in  love  with  notions  of  each  other.  We  are  in  love  with  opposites.  [REDACTED]  is  a  nonpracticing  Protestant  with  a  Catholic  name,  and  I  am  a  non-  practicing  Catholic  with  a  Protestant  name.  She  is  from  a  solid  middle-class  background  that  slipped  a  little  after  her  parents  divorced.  I  am  from  a  lower  working-class  background  but  am  now  living  in  a  middle-class  world.  Neither  of  us  ever  wants  to  have  children.  We  are  disillusioned  with  Ireland.  She  is  writing  good  poems  and  an  insipid  novel  and  has  a  job  at  the  newspaper.  I  am  jealous  of  her  expanding  life.  She  thinks  I'm  funny,  and  I  never  dare  admit  how  seldom  she  gets  the  joke;  besides,  I  am  drawn  to  her  seriousnature.  So  we  buy  the  house  made  of  the  crumbling  [REDACTED]  yellow  brick  on  Bath  Avenue   in  Irishtown.  We  take  photographs  of  each  other  leaning  against  the  &quot;Sold&quot;  sign.  She  buys  us  matching  key  rings,  two  silver  fishes.  I  make  ajoke  about  the  religious  significance,  and  she  says  that  is  not  the  point  at  all;  we  share  the  same  March  birthday  and  we  are  two  faith-  ful  fishes  swimming  forever  in  a  sea  of  sharks.  ‘  N  Je  hire  skip  after  skip  and  fill  them  with  theold  belongings  left  behind  after  the  owner  died.  Post  still  comes  for  Anna  Condron,  now  nearly  three  years  dead.  The  world  takes  its  time  letting  the  dead  go  to  theirgraves.  Work  leads  to  work.  There  are  problems  we  haven't  bargained  for.  The  water  cistern  in  the  attic  bursts,  but  only  after  the  plumber  has  installed  new  pipes  leading  to  it.  There  are  nice  surprises.  When  we  strip  theold  plywood  on  the  stairwell,  we  discover  there  are  original  posts  hid-  ing  there.  As  the  months  pass  and  spring  comes  and  goes,  we  learn  what  a  beauti-  ful  garden  Anna  Condron  had  planted.  Pale-pink  roses.  Black-eyed  Susans.  Snapdragons.  Flowers  we  can't  name.  We  grow  to  love  the  plocking  sound  of  tennis  from  the  courts  that  run  up  against  the  end  of  the  back  garden.  [REDACTED]  finds  five  hundred  pounds  under  the  carpet  in  old  twenty-pound  notes.  I  want  to  blow  it.  She  saves  it  for  our  future.  We're  so  engrossed  that  we  don't  no-  tice  the  children  who  are  gathering  at  the  corner  every  day.  The  mischief  they  get  up  to  is  the  kind  that  bored  children  get  up  to  everywhere.  They  start  ringing  the  doorbell  and  running  away,  scream-  ing  at  us  as  we  come  and  go.  But  there  is  something  else,  a  hint  of  menace.  The  children  play  football  late  into  the  night  under  the  street  lamps.  Their  ball  bangs  repeatedly  offthe  gable.  Even  though  we  are  exhausted,  we  can't  sleep.  Sum-  mer  comes  and  with  the  school  holi-  days  the  trouble  escalates.  I  can't  re-  member  the  first  time  I  told  the  children  to  move  away  from  the  house,  or  when  their  language  worsened  and  they  went  from  calling  us  silly  names  to  more  vul-  gar  ones.  Ican't  even  remember  the  first  broken  window.  The  children  begin  to  take  on  individual  identities.  There  is  Larry.  He  is  about  six,  and  he  is  the  youngest.  He  is  put  up  to  much  of  the  trouble.  I  watch  Larry  from  the  win-  dow  as  he  tears  the  windscreen  wipers  off  the  car.  There  are  days  when  I  talk  with  them  as  I  load  the  skip.  They  ask  questions  non-stop.  They  ask  if  we  are  married,  and  for  some  reason  Ilie  and  say  no.  This  marks  us  in  their  eyes.  Larry  asks  me  if  I  am  married,  and  I  tell  him  I  am  married  many  times.  He  looks  at  me  and  says,  Holy  God  will  come  down  and  fuckin'  kill  ya  if  you're  not  married.  Da-  rina,  one  of  the  tallest,  about  fourteen,  will  be  pregnant  soon.  It  is  in  her  eyes.  There  is  Alan,  a  boy  who  holds  [REDACTED]  in  great  disdain.  He  spits  at  her  and  calls  her  a  cunt.  When  he  hisses  the  word,  he  means  it.  They  make  fun  of  the  way  [REDACTED]  speaks.  They  think  she  is  Amer-  ican,  with  her  accent  that  is  a  mixture  of  her  English  father  and  her  Celtophilic  mother.  There  is  Sabrina  and  Joseph  and  Elaine.  Something  is  happening  every  day  now.  A  bag  of  rubbish  is  thrown  over  the  back  wall  on  top  of  the  new  flower  beds.  Graffiti  is  sprayed  on  the  side  of  the  house:  Psychobead!  Cuntface!  Gee-  bag!  [REDACTED]  spends  more  and  more  time  at  the  office.  Her  career  with  the  Ti-  bune  is  up  and  running.  We  have  been  married  three  years  before  we  decide  to  buy  the  house.  Almost  as  soon  as  we  do,  I  know  it  is  a  mistake.  It  is  her  money,  5  and  although  I  try  to  make  up  for  this  €  by  workmg  hard  on  the  renovation,  I  f  can't  put  it  out  of  my  mind  that  itis  her  E  house.  During  an  argument  about  where  3  we  should  put  the  cooker,  she  snaps  g  that  itis  her  cooker  and  the  house belongs  to  her.  I  look  at  her,  dumb-  |  founded,  and  her  eyes  dare  me  to  ques-  tion  her.  She  has  said  it  and,  even  though  I  can  see  the  regret  in  her  face,  I  can  see,  too,  the  defiance.  She  never  apologizes  about  the  cooker.  It  isn't  her  style  toapologize,  too  much  of  the  father  in  her  for  that.  Shoulders  back,  look  them  straight  in  the  eye.  Never  complain.  Never  explain.  Never  apologize.  By  the  time  she  calms  down,  she  knows  there  is  a  coldness  in  me.  The  inequality  has  been  spoken.  I  don't  have  the  courage  to  confront  her,  andwhen,  later,  she  offers  to  put  the  house  in  both  our  names  I  dismiss  the  idea.  It  is  her  house.  And  the  situation  is  exacerbated  by  the  odd  coincidence  that  her  mother  has  a  man  living  with  her,  a  man  more  than  twenty  years  younger  who  is  living  off  her.  Mulvany  has  no  job  and  does  nothing  around  the  house  ex-  cept  leave  dirty  ashtrays  and  teacups  strewn  about  the  floor.  He's  a  drunk.  There  are  no  parallels  drawn  between  motherand  daughter.  There  aren't  any-  exceptthe  crucial  fact  that  both  women  own  their  own  property  and  the  men  in  their  lives  are  moneyless.  It  all  lies  there  between  us  like  a  stillbirth.  One  night,  there  is  a  knock  on  the  door.  I  get  out  of  the  bath  to  answer  it.  One  of  the  neighbors  is  standing  there,  heavy-mustached,  topless,  and  wear-  ing  only  a  pair  of  jeans;  a  stupid,  good-  looking,  chest-tattooed  piece  of  shit  from  head  to  toe.  He  is  smoking,  and  he  |  points  his  cigarette  at  me  and  says  that  if  |_  either  that  bitchor  me  ever  as  much  as  looks  at  his  children  again  he  will  fuck-  ing  kill  us.  I  ask  him  to  come  in,  hoping  if  he  steps  into  the  hallway  he  might  '  calm  down,  but  he  stays  where  he  is,  with  one  foot  on  the  door  saddle.  He  goes  on  and  on,  calling  us  perverts,  a  word  that  one  of  the  girls  on  the  corner,  Sabrina,  uses.  He  puts  a  foot  into  the  hallway.  The  ash  lengthens  on  his  ciga-  rette,  and  his  reluctance  to  tap  it  on  the  carpet  gives  some  hope  he  isn't  a  com-  plete  maniac.  -Your  children  are  ruining  our  lives,  [REDACTED]  says.  I  look  around  at  her,  astonished  she  has  interrupted  him.  -Shut  the  fuck  up,  you,  the  man  says.  -You  shut  up  and  learn  to  control  '  your  children.  -I'm  warning  you,  I'll  rip  you  from  your  cunt  to  your  chin.  -Go  ahead.  She  stares  up  into  his  face.  -Go  ahead  if  you're  so  brave.  Rip  me.  -I'm  warning  you,  if  you  as  much  as  look  at  my  kids  ...  -Rip  me.  Go  ahead.  He  walks  away.  She  follows  him  down  the  garden  path.  He  stops,  looks  at  her,  and  she  spits  in  front  of  him.  -The  state  of  you  with  your  shirt  off.  Best  part  of  you  ran  down  your  mother's  leg.  He  stops  again,  looks  slowly  over  his  shoulder  and  sneers  at  her.  He  turns  the  corner  and  walks  down  Bath  Av-  enue  and  out  of  sight.  She  never  takes  her  eyes  off  him.  -Jesus,  what  did  you  say  that  for?  He  could  have  killed  us.  -You  talk  that  way  about  them.  -About  them,  not  to  them.  We  go  to  the  Gardai  that  night  and  report  him.  His  name  is  Grimley,  and  we  laugh  at  how  life  has  picked  the  right  name  for  him.  There  is  nothing  they  can  do  except  warn  him.  They  can  come  when  we  call  if  the  children  are  giving  trouble,  but  they  can't  arrest  them-they  are  too  young.  They  advise  us  to  move.  The  world  is  a  small  place  that  night,  our  lives  dictated  by  children.  The  next  day,  the  bathroom  window  is  broken.  We  replace  it.  When  I  finish  repainting  the  frame,  it  is  broken  again.  I  replace  it  again.  When  other  things  happen,  I  stop  telling  [REDACTED].  My  si-  lence  is  not  stoicism-I  am  ashamed  I  have  no  control,  that  with  each  passing  day  I  am  less  and  less  of  a  man.  n  a  quiet  Sunday  morning,  we  are  lying  in  bed,  still  asleep.  A  ball  thuds  off  the  gable.  Then  it  hits  the  win-  dow  by  the  bed.  We  have  designed  a  stained-glass  window  that  throws  pink  and  green  light  into  the  room.  A  sheet  of  unbreakable  glass  is  in  front  of  it.  The  ball  is  thrown  harder  and  harder  against  the  window.  We  lie  there  listening.  Ur-  sula  is  wiping  her  hand  over  her  knuck-  les,  slapping  the  back  of  her  hand,  drub-  bing  herself  until  I  can't  bear  it,  and  I  jump  out  of  the  bed,  pull  on  my  clothes,  and  run  out.  They  are  already  out  of  sight.  I  run  and  run  and  keep  running,  the  rims  of  my  shoes  cutting  into  my  sockless  ankles.  I  run  through  Irishtown,  and  on  into  Ringsend  and  there  they  are  outsidea  shop,  eating  sweets.  They  all  see  me  except  Alan,  who  has  his  back  to  me.  I  lunge  at  the  child  and  throw  him  to  the  ground.  He  screams,  defiance  in  his  eyes.  I  sit  on  him  and  hold  him  by  the  ears.I  want  to  lift  his  head  and  bang  it  on  the  footpath.  I  want  to  bang  it  until  he  stops  moving,  but  I  can't  do  it.  I  hate  my-  self.  I  hate  the  fact  that  the  child  under  me  is  a  child  and  doesn't  really  under-  stand  how  he  is  tormenting  us.  He  will  grow  out  of  it.  He  will  grow  up  and  breed  more  of  his  own  into  the  world.  He  won't  remember  the  misery  he  has  caused  us.  I  walk  back  to  the  house.  I  sit  down  on  the  front  step,  and  when  I  take  the  box  of  cigarettes  out  of  my  pocket  I  see  that  I  am  shaking  and  sweating.  The  packet  is  crushed,  but  none  of  the  ciga-  rettes  are  broken.  Little  shits.  Little  shits.  I  light  the  cigarette.  People  pass  on  their  way  to  Mass  at  the  Church  of  the  Star.  I  flick  the  cigarette  out  into  the  road.  I've  hadenough  of  it.  [REDACTED]  is  in  the  kitchen  feeding  the  cats,  Willy  and  Vomit,  when  I  come  in.  -We're  selling.  -No  way.  I'm  not  letting  them  win.  You  can  go  if  you  like,  she  says,  as  casu-  ally  as  if  she  were  deciding  whether  or  not  to  go  to  a  film.  I  nod,  and  I  can  see  I  have  nothing  left  then.  She  doesn't  hide  her  disgust-I  am  a  coward  in  her  eyes.  I  am  a  coward.  But  I  understand  some-  thing  she  does  not  about  these  people.  I  grew  up  with  their  like.  She  will  not  win.  There  is  no  winning  with  them.  here  are  older  boys  on  thecorner  later  that  day.  Teen-agers.  They  are  lining  up  and  throwing  stones  at  the  back  windows.  They  are  casual  about  it.  They  are  in  no  hurry.  She  telephones  the  Gardai  and  they  say  they  will  have  acar  around  in  minutes.  A  window  breaks.  I  go  downstairs  and  walk  out.  I  walk  slowly  toward  them.  There  are  about  fifteen  in  all,  the  local  children  and     these  boys  I  don't  know,  who  must  be  from  Ringsend.  They  start  to  laugh.  I  don't  care  anymore.  I  stare  at  them  one  by  one.  They  wait  for  me  to  do  some-  thing.  Suddenly  I  remember  the  final  scene  from  &quot;High  Noon&quot;  and  smile.  They  burst  out  laughing,  as  if  reading  my  mind.  I  do  nothing  but  stare.  As  I  stand  there  in  the  middleof  their  cul-  de-sac,  I  realize  that  most  of  their  houses  look  out  onto  this  road.  Their  parents  are  home  from  Mass  now.  They  will  have  had  their  Sunday  dinner  and  be  watch-  ing  the  television.  I  can  feel  eyes,  other  eyes,  on  me.  Some  of  them  must  be  watching  this.  I  have  no  idea  what  to  do  and  so  I  turn  and  walk  away.  Stones  start  to  fly.  I  walk  slowly,  with  every  fourth  or  fifth  stone  hitting  me.  There  are  apples,  too.  They  must  have  raided  an  orchard.  The  apples  bounce  and  smash  off  the  road,  making  it  more  humiliating.  I  know  [REDACTED]  is  watching  from  the  win-  dow  and  that  she,  like  me,  is  at  a  loss.  A  stone  hits  me  in  the  head,  and  then  the  childrenstop  firing  briefly,  testing  the  moment.  I  keep  walking,  swallowing  the  spittle  in  my  throat.  A  squad  car  turns  onto  the  road  and  pulls  up  beside  me.  The  boys  scatter  like  startled  birds.  The  Gardai  chase  and  catch  two  of  them.  They  are  taken  to  their  houses.  Both  fathers  say  their  sons  have  been  with  them  all  afternoon  and  close  their  doors.  A  cop  tells  me  I  should  go  up  to  the  hospital  to  have  my  head  looked  at,  and  it's  only  then  I  feel  the  iciness  at  the  back  of  my  head.  My  hair  is  wet  and  sticky.  Come  on,  says  the  cop,  we'll  drop  you  off.  lie  in  bed,  stunned  by  the  fear  that  has  overcome  me.  [REDACTED]  offers  me  a  drink,  but  I  want  nothing  except  silence.  The  stitches  are  tightening  in  my  scalp.  I  stare  up  at  the  sloping  ceiling  overhead  and  close  my  eyes.I  am  nine  years  of  age  and  walking  home  from  dull,  stupid  school.  I  will  be  nine  years  of  age  forever.  'm  walking  on  the  side  of  the  road  that  the  houses  are  on,  looking  in  each  win-  dow  in  case  I  can  see  something  shock-  ing-a  man  doing  the  foxtrot  with  an  Irish  wolfhound,  an  old  woman  shoot-  ing  up  with  heroin,  a  baby  painting  itself  purple,  a  couple  smiling  at  each  other.  My  mother  has  left  home  and  my  father  is  working  all  the  time.  Painting  houses  for  rich  people.  The  Whites,  the  Greys,     the  Browns,  the  Blacks,  Protestants  who  can't  even  pick  good  colors  for  names,  let  alone  for  their  houses.  I  light  a  cigarette  from  the  tip  of  the  one  I'm  about  to  throw  away.  I'm  getting  the  hang  of  in-  haling.  The  railway,  high  on  the  em-  bankment,  runs  along  the  other  side  of  the  road.  A  rock  bounces  off  the  ground  in  front  of  me.  I  keep  walking.  Another  rock  whacks  off  the  footpath.  I  put  my  schoolbag  in  my  right  hand  as  a  shield.  I  look  up.  There  are  two  boys  walking  along  the  tracks.  They  are  skimming  the  rocks  down  off  the  railway  and  onto  the  road  as  if  it  were  an  ocean.  They  seem  bored,  as  if  they  didn't  care  whether  they  hit  me  or  not.  I  keep  walking.  The  road  is  a  mile  long,  and  whether  I  turn  around  and  go  back  toward  school  or  go  on  for  home  makesno  difference-I  have  about  the  same  distance  to  go  either  way.  We're  doing  &quot;Macbeth&quot;  in  school.  In  blood  steppd  in  so  far.  I  walk  slower.  Never  let  anyone  see  your  fear,  my  father  has  al-  ways  told  me.  [REDACTED]'s  inner  city  in  the  seventies  is  a  no-go  area,  and  showing  courage  is  not  so  much  a  mark  of  foolish  heroism  as  itis  a  way  of  survival.  It's  normal.  A  rock  hits  me  on  the  hip.  I  keep  my  pace.  I  can  sense  their  excite-  ment.  They're  wondering  how  far  to  go,  eachrock  flying  out  farther  into  an  in-  finity  of  malevolence.  Something  hits  me  on  the  side  of  the  head,  and  I  fight  the  urge  to  lift  my  hand  to  the  soreness.  I  keep  walking  as  if  I  feel  nothing.  They  are  running  now,  running  down  the  tracks,  away  from  the  edge  of  hate.  I  don't  know  why  they  picked  me.  Because  I  walked  home  alone.  Because  I  had  no  mother.  Your  mas  a  pro!  Be-  cause  I  didn't  make  friends.  I  liked  po-  etry,  and  I  wasn't  going  to  run  into  school  with  a  Dylan  Thomas  poem  as  if  I  had  discovered  a  two-headed  frog.  Nonetheless,  I  wasn't  prepared  to  sacri-  fice  my  integrity  to  be  in  the  club.  My  integrity.  Nothing  was  as  pure  and  ab-  solute  as  the  stubborn  integrity  of  my  childhood  self.  But  later  I  would  get  over  that.  One  had  to  go  with  the  craze  of  the  moment-go  on  themitch,  set  cats  on  fire,  break  windows,  force  younger  chil-  dren  to  drink  a  jam  jar  full  of  piss.  All  of  this  interested  me  in  theory.  I  liked  to  think  about  the  boy  drinking  the  urine,  what  was  going  on  in  his  head.  And  what  was  going  on  in  the  head  of  the  boy  who  forced  it  down  the  throat.  But  I  despised  them  for  their  vindictiveness  and  never  would  be  a  part  of  it.  Be  your  own  man,  my  father  always  said.  I  wasn't  sure  what  being  my  own  man  entailed.  I  thought  it  meant  I  had  to  be  alone.  My  father  took  good  care  of  us,  and  I  never  doubted  his  word.  So  I  joined  no  clubs.  I  stayed  out  of  the  gangs,  and  that  made  me  different.  Inside,  I  wanted  to  be  what  every  child  wants  to  be:  the  same.  My  father  didn't  believe  in  fighting.  He  told  me  a  man's  job  was  to  show  that  men  could  be  men  without  behav-  ing  like  wild  animals.  One  day  in  school,  Mooney  picked  on  O'Reilly.  O'Reilly  was  always  picked  on  because  he  couldn't  stop  sucking  his  thumb.  McNally,  the  science  teacher,  came  into  the  classroom  and  broke  the  scrap  up.  But  we  all  knew  what  it  meant.  Four  o'clock  outside  the  back  gates.  About  sixty  of  us  stayed  late  to  watch.  Mooney  started  right  in.  He  shoved  O'Reilly  onto  the  ground  and  kicked  him  in  the  head.  He  kept  kick-  ing  him  in  the  head,  and  O'Reilly  made  no  sound.  We  watched.  Usually  there  was  pushing  and  shoving  and  name-  calling  and  a  bit  of  a  punchup  and  everyone  cheered  until  someone  stopped  it.  Mooney  was  kicking  O'Reilly's  head  like  it  was  a  football.  Blood  was  coming  out  of  his  mouth  and  out  of  his  ear.  I  couldn't  bear  it  and  jumped  in.  I  woke  up  in  Temple  Street  hospital.  Mooney  had  pulled  an  iron  bar  from  his  jacket  and  hit  me  with  it  once  on  the  side  of  the  head.  I  lost  the  hearing  in  my  left  ear.  I  never  got  in  a  fight  after  that.  edbh  calls  to  visit.  [REDACTED]'s  friend.  I  am  out  in  the  back  chopping  wood.  It  is  a  quiet  day,  and  I  am  loving  the  freshness  of  the  air,  being  alone,  doing  a  bit  of  physical  work.  Each  split  of  wood  the  skull  of  Darina,  Alan,  all  of  them.  -That's  very  macho  for  you,  Medbh  says.  -How's  it  goin'?  -You're  sweet.  [REDACTED]  is  lucky  to  have  such  a  sweetie.  I  invite  her  into  thehouse,  and  we  sit  by  the  fire  and  talk.  I  don't  know  her  well  and  don't  particularly  likeher.  She  is  too  certain.  After  a  cup  of  tea  and  a  chat  about  the  delights  of  having  a  home,  she  tells  me  that  she  is  lonely.  She  misses  being  a  single  woman.  We  look  at  each  other,  both  of  us  thinking  the  same  thing,  thinking  about  Brefini,  her  hus-  band.  She  knows  by  my  eyes  that  it's  the  wrong  thing  to  say  to  me.  I  feel  old,  hav-  ing  learned  that  sharing  such  intimacy  is  not  intimacy;  it's  nothing  but  a  slide  into  collusion.  She  asks  for  my  advice  about  a  man  her  sister  is  interested  in,  and  I  tell  her  I  don't  know.  I  don't  know  how  to  get  a  Rawlplug  in  a  hole  without  bending  it;  how  would  I  know  about  this  man  her  sister  wants?  She  thanks  me  for  my  ad-  vice,  warms  herself  a  moment  longer  by  the  fireside,  rubbing  her  hands  on  her  thighs,  lingering  to  dispel  the  awkward-  ness  between  us,  and  then  she  leaves.  She  has  no  idea  that  shehas  offended  me.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  Brefini;  it  is  my  own  frail  ego.  Why  should  she  think  that  a  lighthearted  comment  about  macho-or  the  lack  of  it-would  be  hurtful?  Why  would  shethink  that  call-  ing  me  skinny  or  boyish  or  sweet  could  ever  be  construed  as  offensive?  For  a  woman  to  say  she  is  envious  of  aman's  skinniness  is  like  complimenting  an  obese  woman  on  her  jolly  nature.  It  translates  from  compliment  to  insult  in  a  finger  click.  Sweet  is  the  trickiest  one  of  all  to  handle,  because  it  seems  innocu-  ous.  Here's  the  rub:  women  tell  me  men  are  not  sweet.  Women  tell  me  men  are  bastards.  So,  somehow,  even  though  sweetness  is  a  virtue,  one  is  less  of  a  man  for  possessing  it.  My  head  begins  to  ache,  as  if  cold  air  were  being  forced  through  the  healing  wound.  It  was  stu-  pid  to  start  working  sosoon.  We  go  to  Brefini  and  Medbh's  house  on  a  Sunday  afternoon  to  talk  about  books,  adull  [REDACTED]  version  of  the  Bloomsbury  set.  About  half  a  dozen  of  [REDACTED]'s  friends  talk  and  talk,  and  the  only  aspect  that  appeals  to  me  is  the  dec-  adence  of  drinking  wine  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  I  hate  the  way  they  tear  books  apart  for  the  sake  of  it.  They  are  like  young  barristers  cutting  their  teeth.  Today  they  are  discussing  Cormac  Mc-  Carthy's  latest  book.  [REDACTED]  and  I  read  it  in  bed  together  the  night  before.  Rather,  she  read  it,  and  I  occasionally  read  over  her  shoulder.  We  both  hated  it.  Man's  struggle  with  the  universe  against  an  imponderable  sunset.  She  finished  the  book  late  in  the  night.  I  remember  lis-  tening  to  some  of  the  locals  coming  home  drunk.  The  next  day,battle  ensues  over  the  book.  The  men  are  attacking  [REDACTED].  It  is  turning  into  the  great  mo-  notonous  gender  debate-the  men  lik-  ingthe  book  and  the  women  not-and  I  hope  my  erudite  opinion  will  turn  the  argument  around.  -Horseshit  and  sunsets  in  an  Amer-  ica  that  doesn't  exist,  I  say.  -You  haven't  even  read  the  book,  she  says.  Everyone  looks  at  her,  and  then  at  me.  I  smile  my  finest  roguish  smile.  It  doesn't  hide  a  thing.  I  go  silent  and  the     men  all  laugh.  On  the  way  home,  she  asks  me  why  I  am  silent,  and  I  can  say  nothing  with  the  anger  in  me.  She  sighs,  resigned  to  the  silence.  -You  know  what  Medbh  told  me  men  want,  [REDACTED]?  -Tell  me,  Stephen,  what  did  Medbh  tell  you  men  want?  I  -Three  things:  to  be  fed  from  time  to  time,  a  good  blow  job,  and  never  to  be  made  to  look  silly  in  public  or  talked  about  behind  their  backs.  -That's  four.  -I  didn't  give  a  fuck  about  the  book.  I  was  supporting  you.  -You  lied.  Arguments  should  be  based  on  facts.  ‘  -That's  the  mistake  women  make  in  arguments  with  men.  You  think  we  work  on  logic.  You  can't  beat  men  with  logic.  Men  make  the  illogical  sound  log-  ical.  Get  over  it.  But,  hey,  if  you  want  facts,  we'll  live  on  facts.  We  will  live  with  facts.  Never  expect  me  to  defend  you  again.  Never,  never  expect  my  trust.  The  trailing  unspoken  ends  of  sentences.  The  ones  that  count.  e  are  painting  the  house  and  can  hear  the  music  from  a  concert  in  Lansdowne  Road.  I  am  usinga  roller  on  the  ceiling,  and  she  is  doing  the  walls.  I  want  it  all  to  last  as  it  was.  With  cats  and  roses  and  the  sun  on  the  bed  in  the  morning.  The  sleepy  slosh  of  her  early-  morning  piss.  Driving  her  in  to  the  of-  fice.  Lettingher  off  in  Lower  Baggot  Street  at  the  Tribune.  Kissing.  There  would  always  be  one  last  thing  to  say.  I  love  you,  I  would  say,  and  she  would  smile  a  gluttonous  smile  and  slam  the  car  door  with  the  noise  of  [REDACTED]  swirling  about  her.  I  would  watch  her  from  the  quietness  of  the  car.  I  would  stare  after  her,  waiting  for  her  to  turn.  The  thought  of  her  caressing  me  all  day  long.  One  morning,  after  I  let  her  out  at  the  corner,  I  see  her  wave  to  a  man  with  a  heavy  duffelbag  hanging  off  his  shoul-  der.  He  is  confident,  easygoing-the  way  he  carries  himself.  He  smiles  at  her,  and  she  smiles  back.  The  exchange  flashes  like  a  knife.  He  shrugs  and  smiles  at  |  something  she  says,  and  I  sit  there  in  the  idling  car  wondering  what  she  has  to  say  to  a  man  I  don't  know  that  could  make  him  shrug  and  smile.  She  bursts  out  laughing  and  slaps  him  on  the  arm.  The  horrible  ease  she  has  with  him.  Jealousy     grips  me  and  I  have  a  stomach-churning  insight  into  what  life  would  be  like  with-  out  her.  I  park  the  car  and  walk  through  Mer-  rion  Square,  through  the  Lincoln  Gate  at  Trinity,  past  the  chapel  where  Brefini  and  Medbh  got  married.  They  had  said  they  would  never  marry-we  listened  to  them  rant  about  primitive  Ireland,  and  then  we  watched  them,  as  if  in  a  surreal  cartoon,  marry  and  have  a  child  and  for-  get  all  the  talk  of  changing  the  world.  Already  their  life  was  swallowedwith  baby  burps  and  hoping  the  car  would  start  in  the  morning.  Getting  married  took  the  stress  out  of  making  the  deci-  sion  not  to  get  married  that  they  were  making  every  day,  Medbh  said.  get  up  before  [REDACTED].  While  I  am  waiting  for  the  kettle  to  boil,  I  walk  out  into  the  cold  garden,  Vomit  and  Willy  bouncing  about  my  feet.  Full  of  meows  and  the  happiness  of  morning.  We  have  to  let  the  little  bastards  out  to  empty  their  bladders-they  still  haven't  worked  out  the  cat  flap.  There  was  rain  during  the  night.  Darkness  loosening  itself  from  a  dirty  sky.  The  absorbing  si-  lence  of  the  city  not  yet  awake.  A  bicy-  cle  squishes  down  thegreasy  road.  Then  the  plock  of  a  tennis  ball  behind  the  fence.  They're  starting  early  today.  The  whack  of  a  ball,  the  rattle  of  the  protec-  tive  wire  between  the  end  of  the  back  garden  and  the  courts.  A  ball  is  lodged  high  up  in  one  of  the  wire  diamonds,  like  an  egg  stuck  in  a  startled  mouth.  A  man's  laughter  from  the  tennis  court.  Willy  scales  the  fencing  to  investigate.  The  kettle  whistles  and  I  go  in  and  turn  it  off  before  it  wakes  [REDACTED].  Vomit  sits  on  the  builder's  cement  mixer,  staring  at  her  sister.  I  blink  with  pleasure  at  the  memory  of  her  warm  body,  lost  to  sleep.  Too  early  to  wake  her.  I  tap  the  foul-smelling  cat  food  into  the  kittens'  bowls,  and  they  race  each  other  to  their  breakfast  as  I  go  upstairs  to  the  toilet.  Odd  she  never  flushes.  It  smells  of  her.  I  gaze  ab-  stractedly  out  the  window  as  I  urinate.  The  tennis  players  are  rallying  energet-  ically.  The  man  crashes  a  ball  against  the  top  of  the  net,  curses,  and  sets  off  to  retrieve  it.  His  partner  takes  off  her  track-suit  bottoms,  flattens  out  the  creases  in  her  tennis  skirt,  and  shakes  off  a  chill.  She  hops  on  the  spot,  wait-  ing.  Aggression  twitches  in  her  calf.  She  embodies  a  certain  kind  of  woman:  one  who  dislikes  men  and,  in  return,  is  adored.  They  pursue  her,  searching  for  the  nugget  of  her  allure.  I  dislike  every-  thing  her  taut  body  suggests.  My  blood  rushes  through  me.  I  see  myself  lifting  her  tennis  skirt  and  fucking  her.  The  first  day  I  met  [REDACTED],  I  had  to  pull  my  eyes  away  from  her  as  she  walked  down-  stairs  to  the  toilet  in  the  Palace  Bar.  The  sway  of  her  stout  buttocks  under  a  white  skirt.  I  felt  naked  in  the  pub,  as  if  it  were  obvious  that  I  was  longing  for  the  im-  possible.  I  remember  not  liking  heren-  tirely.  I  drank  deeply  then,  to  steady  the  craving.  The  tennis  ball  thumps  off  the  asphalt.  Have  to  get  dressed.  It's  cold  in  thehouse.  Tonight  I'm  cooking.  The  fu-  ture  wouldn't  happen.  I  want  a  child.  The  whack  of  the  ball  off  the  tennis  racquet.  But  not  with  her.  I  open  my  eyes,  and  the  world  is  too  real.  The  sky  stares  at  me  indifferently.  The  mattress  moans  with  her  shift.  ‘  N  Je  are  having  dinner.  She  is  eating  salad  noisily.  I  have  begun  to  drink  more.  She  has  stopped  drinking.  It  is  her  way  of  telling  me  she  has  noticed  my  drinking.  She  has  begun  to  know  me,  know  the  way  my  temper  flares  with  the  breeze  of  her  perceptiveness,  and  so  she  says  no,  she  will  have  no  wine.  For  a  while  I  cut  back,  but  then  I  weaken,  opening  a  second  bottle  at  the  end  of  the  meal.  During  this  dinner,  it's  obvious  the  marriage  is  slipping.  It's  like  the  &quot;L&quot;  on  her  typewriter  that  can't  bring  itself  to  strike  paper  hard  enough  to  make  an  impression.  The  harder  the  key  is  struck,  the  fainter  its  outline.  I  wash  back  the  anger;  it  swims  in  my  ears.  I  stare  out  the  window  at  the  unfinished  garden.  I  breathe  deeply  and  imagine  the  sound  of  her  eating  as  sweet  music.  She  must  al-  ways  have  eaten  that  way.  I  get  up  from  the  table  abruptly  and  leave  the  room  to  steady  myself.  She  shouts  after  me.  Do  I  want  tea?  Her  voiceeddies  on  the  waves  of  anger  I  leave  behind.  I  come  in  after  an  hour's  walk,  and  there  is  a  mug  of  tea  on  the  table  with  a  saucer  over  it  to  keep  it  warm.  The  smell  of  our  sweat  has  lost  its  passion.  It  must  have  been  a  long  time  happening  (weeks,  months,  years?),  but  now  it  seems  as  fastas  losing  sight  of  a  fish  flipping  in  a  river.  I  start  loving  her  less  and  am  sickened  at  how  easy  that  is.  Only  three  years  married,  and  the  inti-  macy  between  us  tattered  more  than  the  wedding  shoes  I  wear  only  on  Sun-  days.  We  sleep  in  the  same  bed,  but  we  try  not  to  toucheach  other.  In  the  night,  if  I  wakeup  and  feel  our  buttocks  meet  I  move  away.  I  promise  myself  I  will  never  touch  her  again,  but  desire  gets  the  better  ofboth  of  us.  After-  ward,  I  lie  there  disgusted  with  myself  for  being  inside  her.  August:  summer  failing  to  break  out  of  a  wet  July.  The  dampness  of  au-  tumn  already  setting  in.  We  are  tiling  in  the  bathroom  upstairs.  The  telephone  rings.  We  look  at  each  other,  at  our  hands  covered  in  tiling  cement.  It's  Fri-  day  evening.  Invariably,  the  Tribune  rings  on  Friday  evening.  Looking  for  her  to  go  to  Leopardstown  to  cover  a  race  meet-  ing.  She  must  have  been  first  on  the  list.  The  eager  journalist  who  drops  her  life  in  the  sink  to  ask  rich  men  stupid  questions.  -Leave  it.  She  is  wiping  her  hands  clean.  -It  might  be  the  office.  -The  office  is  why  I  don't  want  you  to  pick  it  up.  The  answering  machine  clicks  on  downstairs  before  she  reaches  it,  and  my  father's  voice  echoes  through  the  house.  She  looks  at  me  for  an  instant,  and  I  see  suspicion  coming  into  her  eyes.  She  goes  into  the  study  next  door,  picks  up  the  ex-  tension,  and  says  hello,  and  my  father  stutters  and  asks  how  things  are.  I  sit  in  the  bath  staring  at  the  half-finished  wall,  listening  to  their  voices  reverberate  off  the  tiles.  [REDACTED]  putsthe  phone  down  and  comes  back  in.  I  talk  out  of  nervousness.  -Put  the  lid  on  the  cement  or  it'll  harden.  -So  much  for  keeping  it  within  our  own  four  walls.  I  pick  up  the  phone,  and  my  hello  is  the  voice  of  the  accused.  -Is  it  a  bad  time,  son?  Guilt  stiffens  in  me,  caught  between    the  two  of  them,  and  I  tell  him  I'll  call  him  later.  I  put  the  phone  down  and  wipe  a  smudge  of  cement  off  it.  The  courts  are  full  now  with  Friday-evening  tennis  players,  ready  to  bash  the  week  out  of  their  minds.  [REDACTED]  is  washing  herself  at  the  bathroom  sink,  naked  ex-  cept  for  white  knickers  and  flat  black  shoes.  Her  overalls  lie  on  the  win-  dowsill.  The  knicker  elastic  is  cutting  into  her  flesh,  the  hairs  on  her  legs  are  standing  with  the  cold.  -They  can  see  you  from  here.  -Who?  -The  tennis  players.  -Big  thrill.  Go  tell  your  daddy.  She  dresses  and  puts  on  her  makeup.  She  closes  the  hall  door  quietly  when  she  leaves.  The  clutch  grinds  as  she  re-  verses  out  of  the  drive.  I  stand  in  the  hallway  surrounded  by  the  tremendous  emptiness  of  her  leaving.  A  moment  later,  the  doorbell  rings  and  I  walk  slowly  down  the  hall  to  face  her  with  as  much  sourness  as  I  can  muster.  A  couple  of  children  are  standing  in  the  porch,  red-faced  and  breathless:  -Can  we  have  our  ball  back,  mister?  They  step  inside  to  wait.  I  go  out  into  the  back  and  search  for  it.  Willy  and  Vomit  are  fighting  on  the  grass.  The  normality  of  looking  for  a  lost  ball.  get  the  DART  into  town  and  go  to  Scanlon's.  Three  morose  pints.  Two  men  arguing  at  the  bar:  It  is.  I'm  telling  you  it  is.  You  know  what  your  problem  is.  I'll  tell  you  what  your  problem  is.  You  don't  know  what  the  fuck  you're  talking  about-that's  your  problem.  I  walk  home  in  the  rain.  The  phone  is  ringing  when  I  get  to  the  front  door.  She's  probably  gone  to  her  mother's  to  bitch,  and  that  cunt  has  filled  her  with  superwoman  confidence  about  her  life.  I  pick  up  the  phone  and  say  hello  as  dourly  as  possible.  It's  my  father's  voice,  a  tentative  hello.  -What's  wrong,  Da?  -Nothing's  wrong.  Is  it  a  better  time  to  talk  now?  -I  think  she's  left.  He  says  nothing.  I  wait  for  him  to  say  something,  and  there's  nothing  but  silence.  He's  thinking  of  Ma,  of  her  going.  That's  what  people  always  do,  relate  it  to  themselves,  make  useless  comparisons.  108  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  26,  2001  -What  are  you  going  to  do?  -I  don't  know.  I'll  tell  you  one  thing  I'm  not  doing.  I'm  not  waiting  for  her  to  come  back.  -You  could  always  come  down  here,  not  that  I  want  to  get  between  youse.  -I  don't  want  to  leave  the  house  empty.  -It's  not  your  house  to  be  worrying  about.  Time  was  that  would  have  started  a  fight,  his  saying  that,  but  now  it's  the  words  of  family,  of  taking  sides,  of  knowing  I  have  never  felt  married  to  her,  not  long  enough  married  to  be-  come  the  blood  tie,  to  become  whatever  that  thing  is  that  binds  a  woman  and  a  man.  But  I'll  wait  one  more  night  for  her,  give  her  until  tomorrow.  [REDACTED]  doesn't  come  home  that  night,  and  she  doesn't  phone.  I  wake  up,  feed  her  cats  (already  the  di-  viding  up,  it  floods  in  unbidden),  and  stare  out  at  the  rain  dripping  off  the  gutter.  Fuck  it.  Fuck  her.  Fuck  whatever  anyone  thinks.  That  night,  I  sit  watch-  ing  the  television  but  I'm  only  waiting  for  her  to  phone.  Every  hour  that  passes  and  she  doesn't  phone  is  an  hour  more  to  tell  myself  I'm  right  in  going.  I  hate  that  I  need  her  to  push  me  into  a  deci-  sion,  but  sitting  there  I  know  this  is  the  way  I  am.  I  leave  the  television  on  so  the  locals  think  someone  is  in  and  I  go  to  the  pub  for  a  bottle  of  whiskey.  No  messages  on  the  machine  when  I  get  back.  Two  more  days  pass  with  no  sign  from  her.  If  she  expects  me  to  phone  her,  she  can  go  to  hell.  She  did  the  walking  out.  Come  Saturday,  whether  she's  here  or  not,  I'm  going.  The  cats  can  starve.  I  sleep  little  on  the  Friday  night,  cursing  her.  I  was  sure  she'd  be  home  by  the  weekend.  The  cats  wake  me,  meowing  at  the  bedroom  door.  I  feed  them,  take  my  suitcases  down  to  the  hall,  and  walk  around  the  house  one  last  time.  But  still  I  wait,  each  nightde-  ciding  to  give  it  one  more  day,  each  night  lying  there  thinking  of  my  own  sins,  of  my  own  petty  slights,  of  my  stubbornness  with  her  over  things  that  didn't  matter.  I  call  Medbh,  and  Brefini  answers.  I  ask  him  to  pass  on  a  message  to  her.  After  I  put  down  the  phone,  I  re-  alize  how  forced  my  voice  was,  con-  trolled  and  clipped.  That  it  has  come  to  this,  a  terse  message  through  friends.  She  can  have  her  time,  as  much  of  it  as  she  likes.  I'm  moving  in  with  my  father.  She  can  have  Bath  Avenue.  y  father  is  reading  something  out  of  the  paper  about  [REDACTED]  Ireland,  repeating  what  he  always  re-  peats.  Should  get  a  chainsaw  and  di-  vide  North  and  [REDACTED]  and  let  them  float  off  into  the  Atlantic.  I  look  up  at  his  racing  calendar:  October  already.  Where  did  September  go?  I  wonder  did  Brefini  give  her  my  father's  number  but  know  she  has  it  anyway.  I  stop  lis-  tening  to  my  father  and  realize  how  much  I'm  losing:  the  late  nights  in  bed  with  her  reading  favorite  worst  pas-  sages  from  the  books  she  was  review-  ing,  the  walks  on  Sandymounit  strand,  playing  with  the  cats,  pruning  roses,  sitting  ina  pub  together  on  a  Satur-  day  night,  planning.  All  these  things  weaken  my  resolve  and  I  go  over  and  see  her  in  Bath  Avenue.  She  is  in  the  garden  planting  sun-  flowers,  clearing  the  bindweed  that  is  choking  the  roses.  The  front  door  is  painted  traffic-light  orange.  I  had  wanted  it  red,  but  the  orange  looks  fine.  There  is  a  thud  and  the  sound  of  running.  A  dead  cat  lies  on  the  grass.  She  doesn't  hear  it.  I  lift  the  animal  and  throw  it  back  over  the  wall  before  she  turns.  The  side  of  her  face  is  yellow  and  purple,  as  ifshe's  gone  crazy  with  makeup.  -Jesus,  what  happened?  She  looks  at  me  and  smiles  as  if  I'm  a  stranger.  -I'm  going  to  kill  that  tattooed  fucker,  [REDACTED].  I'm  going  to  kill  him.  -It  wasn't  him.  I  pull  her  to  me,  and  she  starts  crying.  We  go  into  the  house  and  sit  in  the  liv-  ing  room.  She  was  driving  down  Bath  Avenue  when  a  child  ran  out  in  front  of  her.  She  braked,  but  it  was  too  late.  Her  head  hit  the  steering  wheel  even  with  her  belt  on.  -I  didn't  hit  anyone  at  all.  It  was  a  dummy  they  had  made,  one  of  those  dummies  they  make  to  burn  at  Hal-  loween.  They  were  waiting  for  me.  I  can't  believe  she  is  telling  me  this.  I  can't  believe  the  children  did  this.  What  was  it  with  them?  -Have  you  reported  it?    She  looks  at  me  with  tired,  cynical  eyes,  an  older  woman  now.  -I  told  the  police.  It  won't  make  any  difference.  Why  won't  they  leave  me  the  fuck  alone?  We  go  to  afilm  that  evening.  When  we  get  back,  the  children  are  in  front  of  the  house.  I  keep  driving,  and  we  go  to  the  Beggar's  Bush  and  sit  in  silence,  drinking.  It  is  a  public  admission  of  de-  feat.  I  am  full  of  rage  at  the  neighbors  not  the  ones  who  cause  trouble  but  the  ones  who  don't,  the  friendly  neighbors  who  know  what's  happening  anddo  nothing  to  help.  I  despise  these  peo-  ple  who  call  themselves  friends.  Grand  morning.  Sure  you  have  it  looking  lovely.  If  there's  anything  I  can  do.  They  do  worse  than  nothing.  Their  refusal  to  ac-  knowledge  our  torment  is  the  loudest  comment  of  all  that  there  is  no  com-  munity  in  this  place  that  prides  itself  on  its  friendliness.  The  Good  Old  Dubs.  We  start  talking.  Despite  all  the  dis-  parities,  all  the  flaws,  we  still  like  each  other  and  want  to  be  together.  I  dream  of  living  with  her  in  an  old  house  overlook  ing  the  sea.  Nothing  but  the  sound  of  birds  landing  and  scurrying  on  the  flat  roof  over  our  heads.  If  we  sell  the  house  on  Bath  Avenue,  we  can  find  a  cheap  old  house  by  the  sea  and  renovate,  and  then  we  will  never  have  to  worry  about  money  again.  We  are  young  and  we  can  work  it  out.  his  time,  she  says  she  will  sell.  I  say  nothing  about  the  choice  of  the  first-person  singular.  We  agree  to  work  extra  hard  on  the  house  to  get  it  finished  and  put  it  on  the  market  quickly.  My  at-  titude  changes  overnight.  We  had  taken  care  to  do  everything  as  expertly  as  pos-  sible,  staining  the  skirting  boards  four  times,  varnishing  them  four  times.  Now  I  take  shortcuts.  She  doesn't.  She  is  still  attached  to  the  house;  it  has  become  her  love.  I  grit  my  teeth  when  I  hear  her  sanding  the  downstairs  skirting  boards,  the  obsession  with  smoothness  of  door  frames  and  windows  and  walls.  I  tell  her  again  and  again  to  hurry  and  not  to  worry  about  the  fine  details.  We  have  finished  everything  except  the  papering  and  painting.  The  paint  tins  sit  in  the  kitchen  waiting  to  release  their  colors.  I  open  them  and  stir  them  into  life.  Yel-  low,  pink,  blue,  green.  Happy  colors.  I  size  the  walls  in  the  living  room  and  watch  the  paste  dry  in.  I  am  plumbing  the  wall  over  the  fireplace  when  I  sense  her  behind  me.  -What  are  you  doing?  She  is  standing  in  the  doorway,  wip-  ing  dust  off  her  face.  -Lining  the  walls.  -They're  not  ready.  Her  anger  takes  precedence  over  expertise.  -If  you  think  they're  not  ready,  you  can  do  it-you  can  do  all  of  it.  Wouldn't  that  be  fun?  -Fine.  -It's  not  fine.  You  want  to  help?  Stop  being  a  know-all  expert  and  just  get  it  done.  Now  fuck  off.  -Fuck  off,  you.  -I  should  never  have  married  a  woman  who  couldn't  say  Fuck  off  properly.  -And  I  should  never  have  married  a  man  who  couldn't  fuck  properly.  -Maybe  if  there  was  someone  worth  fucking.  -She  left  your  father  a  long  time  0.  I  climb  the  ladder,  hold  the  roll  of  paper  to  the  ceiling,  let  it  drop  until  it  hits  the  space  between  my  toe  and  the  wall,  feel  the  precision  of  my  father  working  in  me.  I  measure  the  first  length,  lay  it  on  the  table,  and  run  the  other  lengths  of  paper  off  it.  I  am  happy  in  my  anger.  Success  lies  in  letting  her  goone  better  in  insults  and  leaving  to  silence  the  job  of  cutting  her  down.  I  paste  the  paper  and  let  it  soak  in,  then  paste  it  again.  She  is  still  standing  there,  waiting  for  a  reply.  I  start  to  whistle,  the  happy  whistle  of  my  father  when  he  had  to  deal  with  customers  looking  over  his  shoulder.  In  his  heyday,  he  would  have  a  room  like  this  done  in  three  hours.  The  door  slams,  and  thehouse,  empty  of  furniture,  echoes  with  her  hostility.  I  am  halfway  around  the  room  when  I  notice  I'm  going  the  wrong  way-the  joins  in  the  paper  will  show.  No  matter,  they  won't  rise  for  months.  We  are  decorating  the  house  for  someone  else  now.  We  are  fighting  more  and  more,  the  arguments  only  a  break  from  the  bitter  silence.  De-  spite  her  independence,  she  feels  let  down  by  the  man  in  her  life.  I  am  a  coward.  I  want  to  run  from  her.  These  are  the  things  we  don't  talk  about,  the  unsaid  words  that  widen  the  gap  in  the  bed.  She  wants  toinsure  that  all  the  floor-  boards  are  secure  before  we  put  the  last  of  the  skirting  boards  down.  I  keep  going  with  the  lining  paper,  running  it  down  to  the  floor.  We  work  in  inverse  proportion  to  each  other;  the  more  cor-  ners  Icut,  the  more  care  she  takes  in  the  details.  I  watch  her  comb  her  hair  at  night,  as  I  have  done  everynight  for  years.  The  slow,  rhythmical  brushing,  the  decisive  center  parting  that  I  love  to  watch  irritates  me.  We  would  come  to  blows  if  it  weren't  for  exhaustion.  She  is  still  fighting  the  children  in  her  head.  The  house  is  paperednow,  dressed  from  head  to  toe.  One  evening,  I  come  in  and  shehas  written  poems  on  the  walls  in  pencil.  Sexton,  Plath,  Ozick,  Rich,  Bishop,  Gliick,  Levertov.  Poems  pen-  cilled  neatly  all  over  thehouse.  The  pen-  cil  will  burn  through  the  paint,  and  I  sit  down  under  the  weight  of  resentment.  But  she  hasn't  done  it  on  purpose,  I  sup-  pose.  Three  coats  will  cover  them,  and  then  slowly,  over  the  winter  months,  when  the  new  occupants  turn  on  the  heating,  the  poems  will  bleed  through  and  reveal  their  past.  I  want  to  write  poems,  too,  butcan  think  of  none.  I  caught  this  morning  morning's  minion.  Dapple  dawn.  When  we  were  young  and  sucked  on  country  pleasures.  Bits.  My  mind  is  full  of  bits.  I  go  up  to  bed.  She  is  already  asleep.  I  wake  to  the  smell  of  paint.  She  is  rolling  the  walls  in  the  room  that  was  to  be  her  study.  Bright  yellow.  Rolling  wet  sunshine.  She  should  have  done  the  ceiling  first,  but  I  say  nothing.  Allad-  vice  is  accusation  now.  I  go  down  and  start  the  kitchen  ceiling.  Contentment  settles  in  our  working.  I  shout  up  if  she  wants  tea  and  her  yes  sounds  like  the  first  casual  word  she  has  spoken  in  months.  I  go  out  and  get  fish-and-chips,  and  we  sit  on  the  stairs  eating  them  out  of  their  bags.  We  talk  about  how  much  longer  it  will  take.  The  papered  walls  insulate  our  voices;  our  speech  seems  heavier  now.  I  think  about  telling  her  how  ashamed  I  am  of  my  fear  but  don't.  Work  is  the  only  refuge  left  in  our  marriage.  he  final  frightening  moment  in  Bath  Avenue.  The  first  day  that  the  house  is  on  view.  We  are  running  around,  lighting  fires  in  the  fireplaces,  arranging  the  freshly  cut  flowers  from  the  garden  in  vases,  turning  on  all  the  house  lamps,  brewing  coffee;  all  the  fake  things  you  do  to  sell  a  house.  The  house  is  alive  with  autumn-colored  flowers:  hydrangeas,  nerines,  fuchsia,  chrysanthemums.  The  estate  agent  is  helping  us,  and  for  the  first  time  I  no-  tice  him  noticing  us,  can  tell  he  knows  something  isn't  right  about  the  rela-  tionship.  People  sense  a  home  where  love  is  dying.  The  market  is  buoyant,  and  weknowwe  will  be  swamped  with  viewers.  An  hour  before  the  viewing,  a  gang  gathers  at  the  corner.  We  sit  in  the  kitchen  on  one  side  of  the  beauti-  fully  dampproofed,  beautifully  papered,  beautifully  painted  wall,  and  they  sit  on  the  other  side,  smoking  cigarettes.  They  don't  do  anything.  They  don't  have  to  do  anything.  No  one  will  buy.  Already  cars  are  pulling  up.  It  is  no  use  calling  the  Gardai.  The  sight  of  a  squad  car  will  only  make  matters  worse.  We  hold  each  other.  It  is  the  first  time  in  months  we  touch.  The  softness  of  her  against  me.  That  time  on  our  honeymoon.  The  estate  agent  tells  us  to  leave  and  come  back  after  seven.  The  house  doesn't  sell  at  auction. 