 FICTION  BULLDOG  BY  ARTHUR  MILLER  practically  unloaded,  rocked  and  clat-  tered  lightly  through  the  hot  afternoon.  He  passed  above  a  block  where  men  were  standing  in  driveways  watering  their  cars  as  though  they  were  hot  elephants.  Dust  floated  pleasantly  through  the  air.  The  Schermerhorn  Street  neighbor-  hood  was  a  surprise,  totally  different  from  his  own,  in  Midwood.  The  houses  here  were  made  of  brownstone,  and  were  not  at  all  like  the  clapboard  ones  on  his  block,  whichhad  been  put  up  onlya  few  years  before  or,  in  the  earliest  cases,  in  the  twenties.  Even  thesidewalks  looked  old,  with  big  squares  of  stone  instead  of  ce-  ment,  and  bits  of  grass  growing  in  the  cracks  between  them.  He  could  tell  that  Jews  didn't  live  here,  maybe  because  it  was  so  quiet  and  unenergetic  and  not  a  soul  was  sitting  outside  to  enjoy  the  sun.  Lots  of  windows  were  wide  open,  with  expressionless  people  leaning  on  their  el-  bows  and  staring  out,  and  cats  stretched  out  on  some  of  the  sills,  many  of  the  women  in  their  bras  and  the  men  in  un-  derwear  trying  to  catch  a  breeze.  Trickles  of  sweat  were  creeping  down  his  back,  not  only  from  the  heat  but  also  because  he  realized  now  that  he  was  the  only  one  who  wanted  the  dog,  since  his  parents  hadn't  really  had  an  opinion  and  his  brother,  who  was  older,  had  said,  &quot;What  are  you,  crazy,  spendingyour  few  dollars  on  a  puppy?  Who  knows  if  it  will  be  any  good?  And  what  are  you  going  to  feed  it?&quot;  He  thought  bones,  and  his  brother,  who  always  knew  what  was  right  or  wrong,  yelled,  &quot;Bones!  They  have  no  teeth  yet!&quot;  Well,  maybe  soup,  he  had  mumbled.  &quot;Soup!  You  going  to  feed  a  puppy  soup?&quot;  Suddenly  he  saw  that  he  had  arrived  at  the  address.  Standing  there,  he  felt  the  bottom  falling  out,  and  he  knew  it  was  all  a  mistake,  like  one  of  his  dreams  or  a  lie  that  he  had  stupidly  tried  to  defend  as  being  real.  His  heart  sped  up  and  he  felt  he  was  blushing  and  walked  on  for  half  a  block  or  so.  He  was  the  only  one  out,  and  people  in  a  few  of  the  windows  were  watching  him  on  the  empty  street.  But  how  could  he  go  home  after  he  had  come  so  far?  It  seemed  he'd  been  travelling  for  weeks  or  a  year.  And  now  to  get  back  on  the  subway  with  nothing?  Maybe  he  ought  at  least  to  get  a  look  at  the  puppy,  if  the  woman  would  let  him.  He  had  looked  it  up  in  the  Book  of  Knowledge,  where  they  had  two  full  pages  of  dog  pictures,  and  there  had  been  a  white  English  bulldog  with  bent  front  legs  and  teeth  that  stuck  out  from  its  lower  jaw,  and  a  little  black-and-white  [REDACTED]  bull,  and  a  long-nosed  pit  bull,  but  they  had  no  picture  of  a  brindle  bull.  When  you  came  down  to  it,  all  he  really  knew  about  brindle  bulls  was  that  they  would  cost  three  dollars.  But  he  had  to  at  least  get  a  look  at  him,  his  puppy,  so  he  went  back  down  the  block  and  rang  the  basement  doorbell,  as  the  woman  had  told  him  to  do.  The  sound  was  so  loud  it  startled  him,  but  he  felt  if  he  ran  away  and  she  came  out  in  time  to  see  him  it  would  be  even  more  embarrassing,  so  he  stood  there  with  sweat  running  down  over  his  lip.  An  inner  door  under  the  stoop  opened,  and  a  woman  came  out  and  looked  at  him  through  the  dusty  iron  bars  of  the  gate.  She  wore  some  kind  of  gown,  light-  pink  silk,  which  she  held  together  with  one  hand,  and  she  had  long  black  hair  down  to  her  shoulders.  He  didn't  dare  look  directly  into  her  face,  so  he  couldn't  tell  exactly  what  she  looked  like,  but  he  could  feel  her  tension  as  she  stood  there  behind  her  closed  gate.  He  felt  she  could  not  imagine  what  he  was  doing  ringing  her  bell  andhe  quickly  asked  if  she  was  the  one  who'd  put  the  ad  in.  Oh!  Her  manner  changed  right  away,  and  she  un-  latched  the  gate  and  pulled  it  open.  She  was  shorter  than  he  and  had  a  peculiar  smell,  like  a  mixture  of  milk  and  stale  air.  He  followed  her  into  the  apartment,  which  was  so  dark  he  could  hardly  make  out  anything,  but  he  could  hear  the  high  yapping  of  puppies.  She  had  to  yell  to  ask  him  where  he  lived  and  how  old  he  was,  and  when  he  told  her  thirteen  she  clapped  a  hand  over  her  mouth  and  said  that  he  was  very  tall  for  his  age,  but  he  couldn't  understand  why  this  seemed  to  embarrass  her,  except  that  she  may  have  thought  he  was  fifteen,  which  people  sometimes  did.  But  even  so.  He  followed  her  into  the  kitchen,  at  the  back  of  the  apartment,  where  finally  he  could  see  around  him,  now  that  he'd  been  out  of  the  sun  for  a  few  minutes.  Ina  large  cardboard  box  that  had  been  unevenly  cut  down  to  make  it  shallower  he  saw  three  puppies  and  their  2  mother,  who  sat  looking  up  at  him  with  z  her  tail  moving  slowly  back  and  forth.  He  5  didn't  think  she  looked  like  a  bulldog,  but  #  he  didn't  dare  say  so.  She  was  just  a  brown  dog  with  flecks  of  black  and  a  few  stripes  here  and  there,  and  the  puppies  were  the  same.  He  did  like  the  way  their  little  ears  drooped,  but  he  said  to  the  woman  that  he  had  wanted  to  see  the  puppies  but  hadn't  made  up  his  mind  yet.  He  really  didn't  know  what  to  do  next,  so,  in  order  not  to  seem  as  though  he  didn't  appreci-  ate  the  puppies,  he  asked  if  she  would  mind  if  he  held  one.  She  said  that  was  all  right  and  reached  down  into  the  box  and  lifted  out  two  puppies  and  set  them  down  on  the  blue  linoleum.  They  didn't  look  like  any  bulldogs  he  had  ever  seen,  but  he  was  embarrassed  to  tell  her  that  he  didn't  really  want  one.  She  picked  one  up  and  said,  &quot;Here,&quot;  and  put  it  on  his  lap.  He  had  never  held  a  dog  before  and  was  afraid  it  would  slide  off,  so  he  cradled  it  in  his  arms.  It  was  hot  on  his  skin  and  very  soft  and  kind  of  disgusting  in  a  thrilling  way.  It  had  gray  eyes  like  tiny  buttons.  It  troubled  him  that  the  Book  of  Knowledge  hadn't  had  a  picture  of  this  kind  of  dog.  A  real  bulldog  was  kind  of  tough  and  dangerous,  but  these  were  just  brown  dogs.  He  sat  there  on  the  arm  of  the  green  upholstered  chair  with  the  puppy  on  his  lap,  not  knowing  what  to  do  next.  The  woman,  meanwhile,  had  put  herself  next  to  him,  and  it  felt  like  she  had      given  his  hair  a  pat,  but  he  wasn't  sure  be-  cause  he  had  very  thick  hair.  The  more  seconds  that  ticked  away  the  less  sure  he  was  of  what  to  do.  Then  she  asked  if  he  would  like  some  water,  and  he  said  he  would,  and  she  went  to  the  faucet  and  ran  water,  which  gave  him  a  chance  to  stand  up  and  set  the  puppy  back  in  the  box.  She  came  back  to  him  holding  the  glass  and  as  he  took  it  she  let  her  gown  fall  open,  showing  her  breasts  like  half-filled  bal-  loons,  saying  she  couldn't  believe  he  was  only  thirteen.  He  gulped  the  water  and  started  to  hand  her  back  the  glass,  and  she  suddenly  drew  his  head  to  her  and  kissed  him.  In  all  this  time,  for  some  reason,  he  hadn't  been  ableto  look  into  her  face,  and  when  he  tried  to  now  he  couldn't  see  anything  but  a  blur  and  hair.  She  reached  down  to  him  and  a  shivering  started  in  the  backs  of  his  legs.  It  got  sharper,  until  it  was  almost  like  the  time  he  touched  the  live  rim  of  a  light  socket  while  trying  to  remove  a  broken  bulb.  He  would  never  be  able  to  remember  getting  down  on  the  carpet-he  felt  like  a  waterfall  was  smashing  down  on  top  of  his  head.  He  remembered  getting  inside  her  heat  and  his  head  banging  and  bang  ing  against  the  leg  of  her  couch.  He  was  almost  at  Church  Avenue,  where  he  had  to  change  for  the  elevated  Culver  line,  T4  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  13,  2001  before  realizing  she  hadn't  taken  his  three  dollars,  and  he  couldn't  recall  agreeing  to  it  but  he  had  this  small  cardboard  box  on  his  lap  with  a  puppy  mewling  inside.  The  scraping  of  nails  on  the  cardboard  sent  chills  up  his  back.  The  woman,  as  he  re-  membered  now,  had  cut  two  holes  into  the  top  of  the  box,  and  the  puppy  kept  sticking  his  nose  throughthem.  His  mother  jumped  back  when  he  untied  the  cord  and  the  puppy  pushed  up  and  scrambled  out,  yapping.  &quot;What  is  he  doing?&quot;  she  yelled,  with  her  hands  in  the  air  as  though  she  were  about  to  be  attacked.  By  this  time,  he'd  lost  his  fear  of  the  puppy  and  held  him  in  his  arms  and  let  him  lick  his  face,  and  seeing  this  his  mother  calmed  down  a  bit.  &quot;Is  he  hungry?&quot;  she  asked,  and  stood  with  her  mouth  slightly  open,ready  for  anything,  as  heput  the  puppy  on  the  floor  again.  He  said  the  puppy  might  be  hungry,  but  he  thought  he  could  eat  only  soft  things,  although  his  little  teeth  were  as  sharp  as  pins.  She  got  out  some  soft  cream  cheese  and  put  a  little  piece  of  it  on  the  floor,  but  the  puppy  only  sniffed  at  it  and  peed.  &quot;My  God  in  Heaven!&quot;  she  yelled,  and  quickly  got  a  piece  of  newspaper  to  blot  it  up  with.  When  she  bent  over  that  way,  he  thought  of  the  woman's  heat  and  was  ashamed  and  shook  his  head.  Suddenly  her  name  came  to  him-[REDACTED]-which  she  had  told  him  when  they  were  on  the  floor.  Just  as  he  was  slipping  in,  she  had  opened  her  eyes  and  said,  &quot;My  name  is  [REDACTED].&quot;  His  mother  brought  outa  bowl  of  last  night's  noodles  and  set  it  on  the  floor.  The  puppy  raised  his  little  paw  and  tipped  the  bowl  over,  spilling  some  of  the  chicken  soup  at  the  bottom.  Thishe  began  to  lick  hungrily  off  the  linoleum.  &quot;He  likes  chicken  soup!&quot;  his  mother  yelled  happily,  and  immediately  decided  he  would  most  likely  enjoy  an  egg  and  so  put  water  on  to  boil.  Somehow  the  puppy  knew  that  she  was  the  one  to  follow  and  walked  behind  her,  back  and  forth,  from  the  stove  to  the  refrigerator.  &quot;He  follows  me!&quot;  his  mother  said,  laughing  happily.  n  his  way  home  from  school  thenext  day,  he  stopped  at  the  hardware  store  and  bought  a  puppy  collar  for  seventy-five  cents,  and  Mr.  Schweckert  threw  in  a  piece  of  clothesline  as  a  leash.  Every  night  as  he  fell  asleep,  he  brought  out  [REDACTED]  like  something  from  a  secret  treasure  box  and  wondered  if  he  could  dare  phone  her  and  maybe  bewith  her  again.  The  puppy,  which  he  had  named  Rover,  seemed  to  grow  noticeably  bigger  every  day,  although  he  still  showed  no  signs  of  looking  like  any  bulldog.  The  boy's  father  thought  Rover  should  live  in  the  cellar,  but  it  was  very  lonely  down  there  and  he  would  never  stop  yapping.  &quot;He  misses  his  mother,&quot;  his  mother  said,  so  everynight  the  boy  started  him  off  on  some  rags  in  an  old  wash  bas-  ket  down  there,  and  when  he'd  yapped  enough  the  boy  was  allowed  to  bring  him  up  and  let  him  sleep  on  some  ragsin  the  kitchen,  and  everybody  was  thankful  for  the  quiet.  His  mother  tried  to  walk  the  puppy  in  the  quiet  street  they  lived  on,  but  he  kept  tangling  the  rope  around  her  ankles,  and  because  she  was  afraid  to  hurt  him  she  exhausted  herself  following  him  in  all  his  zigzags.  It  didn't  always  happen,  but  many  times  when  the  boy  looked  at  Rover  he'd  think  of  [REDACTED]  and  could  al-  most  feel  the  heat  again.  He  would  sit  on  the  porch  steps  stroking  the  puppy  and  think  of  her,  the  insides  of  her  thighs.  He  still  couldn't  imagine  her  face,  just  her  long  black  hair  and  her  strong  neck.  One  day,  his  mother  baked  a  choco-  late  cake  and  set  it  to  cool  on  the  kitchen  table.  It  was  at  least  eight  inches  thick,  and  he  knew  it  would  be  delicious.  He  was  drawing  a  lot  in  those  days,  pictures  of  spoons  and  forks  or  cigarette  packages  or,  occasionally,  his  mother's  Chinese  vase  with  the  dragon  on  it,  anything  that  had  an  interesting  shape.  So  he  put  the  cake  on  a  chair  next  to  the  table  and  drew  for  a  while  and  then  got  up  and  went  outside  for  some  reason  and  got  involved  with  the  tulips  he  had  planted  the  previous  fall  that  were  just  now  showing  their  tips.  Then  he  decided  to  go  look  for  a  practi-  cally  new  baseball  he  had  mislaid  thepre-  vious  summer  and  which  he  was  sure,  or  pretty  sure,  must  be  down  in  the  cellar  in  a  cardboard  box.  He  had  never  really  got  down  to  the  bottom  of  that  box,  because  he  was  always  distracted  by  finding  some-  thing  he'd  forgotten  he  had  put  in  there.  He  had  started  down  into  the  cellar  from  the  outside  entrance,  under  the  back  porch,  when  he  noticed  that  the  pear  tree,  which  he  had  planted  two  years  before,  had  what  looked  like  a  blossom  on  one  of  its  slender  branches.  It  amazed  him,  and  he  felt  proud  and  successful.  He  had  paid  thirty-five  cents  for  the  tree  on  Court  Street  and  thirty  cents  for  an  apple  tree,  which  he  planted  about  seven  feet  away,  so  as  to  be  ableto  hang  a  hammock  be-  tween  them  someday.  They  were  still  too  thin  and  young,  but  maybe  next  year.  He  always  loved  to  stare  at  the  two  trees,  because  he  had  planted  them,  and  he  felt  they  somehow  knew  he  was  looking  at  them,  and  even  that  they  were  look-  ing  back  at  him.  The  back  yard  ended  at  a  ten-foot-high  wooden  fence  that  surrounded  Erasmus  Field,  where  the  semi-pro  and  sandlot  teams  played  on  weekends,  teams  like  the  House  of  Da-  vid  and  the  Black  Yankees  and  the  one  with  Satchel  Paige,  who  was  famous  as  one  of  the  country's  greatest  pitchers  ex-  cept  he  was  a  Negro  and  couldn't  play  in  the  big  leagues,  obviously.  The  House  of  Davids  all  had  long  beards-he'd  never  understood  why,  but  maybe  they  were  Orthodox  Jews,  although  they  didn't  look  it.  An  extremely  long  foul  shotover  right  field  could  drop  a  ball  into  the  yard,  and  that  was  the  ball  it  had  occurred  to  him  to  search  for,  now  that  spring  had  come  and  the  weather  was  warming  up.  In  the  basement,  he  found  the  box  and  was  im-  mediately  surprised  at  how  sharp  his  ice  skates  were,  and  recalled  that  he  had  once  had  a  vise  to  clamp  the  skates  side  by  side  so  that  a  stone  could  be  rubbed  on  the  blades.  He  pushed  aside  a  torn  fielder's  glove,  a  hockey  goalie's  glove  whose  mate  he  knew  had  been  lost,  some  pencil  stubs  ‘  and  a  package  of  crayons,  and  a  little  |  wooden  man  whose  arms  flapped  up  and  |  down  when  you  pulled  a  string.  Then  he  |  heard  the  puppy  yapping  over  his  head,  |  but  it  was  not  his  usual  sound-it  was  continuous  and  very  sharp  and  loud.  He  ran  upstairs  and  saw  his  mother  coming  down  into  the  living  room  from  the  sec-  ond  floor,  her  dressing  gown  flying  out  behind  her,  a  look  of  fear  on  her  face.  He  could  hear  the  scraping  of  the  puppy's  nails  on  the  linoleum,  and  he  rushed  into  the  kitchen.  The  puppy  was  running  around  and  around  in  a  circle  and  sort  of  screaming,  and  the  boy  could  see  at  once  that  his  belly  was  swollen.  The  cake  was  on  the  floor,  and  most  of  it  was  gone.  &quot;My  cake!&quot;  his  mother  screamed,  and  picked  up  the  dish  with  the  remains  on  it  and  held  it  up  high  as  though  tosave  it  from  the  puppy,  even  though  practically  nothing  was  left.  The  boy  tried  to  catch  Rover,  but  he  slipped  away  into  the  living  room.  His  motherwas  behind  him  yell-     ing  &quot;The  carpet!&quot;  Rover  kept  running,  in  wider  circles  now  that  he  had  more  space,  and  foam  was  forming  on  his  muzzle.  &quot;Call  the  police!&quot;  his  mother  yelled.  Sud-  denly,  the  puppy  fell  and  lay  on  his  side,  -  gasping  and  making  little  squeaks  with  each  breath.  Since  they  had  never  had  a  dog  and  knew  nothing  about  veterinari-  ans,  he  looked  in  the  phone  book  and  found  the  A.S.P.C.A.  number  and  called  them.  Now  he  was  afraid  to  touch  Rover,  ,  because  the  puppy  snapped  at  his  hand  when  it  got  close  and  hehad  this  foam  |  on  his  mouth.  When  the  van  drew  up  in  front  of  the  house,the  boy  went  outside  and  saw  a  young  guy  removing  a  little  cage  from  the  back.  He  told  him  that  the  dog  had  eaten  practically  a  whole  cake,  but  the  man  had  no  interest  and  came  into  the  house  and  stood  for  a  mo-  ment  looking  down  at  Rover,  who  was  making  little  yips  now  but  was  still  down  on  his  side.  The  man  dropped  some  net-  ting  over  him  and  when  he  slipped  him  |  into  the  cage,  the  puppy  tried  to  get  up  and  run.  &quot;What  do  you  think  is  the  mat-  ter  with  him?&quot;  his  mother  asked,  her  mouth  turned  down  in  revulsion,  which  |  the  boy  now  felt  in  himself.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  him  is  he  ate  a  cake,&quot;  the  man  said.  Then  he  carried  the  cage  out  and  slid  it  through  the  back  door  into  the  darkness  of  the  van.  &quot;What  will  you  do  with  him?&quot;  the  boy  asked.  &quot;You  want  . him?&quot;  the  man  snapped.  His  mother  was  standing  on  the  stoop  now  and  overheard  them,  &quot;We  can't  have  him  here,&quot;  she  called  over,  with  fright  and  definiteness  in  her  voice,  and  approached  the  young  man.  &quot;We  don't  know  how  to  keep  a  dog.  Maybe  somebody  who  knows  how  to  keep  him  would  want  him.&quot;  The  young  man  nodded  with  no  interest  either  way,  got  behind  the  wheel,  and  drove  off.  The  boyand  his  mother  watched  the  van  until  it  disappeared  around  the  corner.  Inside,  the  house  was  dead  quiet  again.  He  didn't  have  to  worry  anymore  about  Rover  doing  something  on  the  carpets  or  chewing  the  furniture,  or  whether  he  had  water  or  needed  to  eat.  Rover  had  been  the  first  thing  he'd  looked  for  on  returning  from  school  every  day  and  on  waking  in  the  morning,  and  he  had  always  worried  that  the  dog  might  have  done  something  to  displease  his  mother  or  father.  Now  all  that  anxiety  was  gone  and,  with  it,  the  pleasure,  and  it  was  silent  in  the  house.  He  went  back  to  the  kitchen  table  and  tried  to  think  of  something  he  could  draw.  A  newspaper  lay  on  one  of  the  chairs,  and  he  opened  it  and  inside  saw  a  Saks  stocking  ad  showing  a  woman  with  a  gown  pulled  aside  to  display  her  leg.  He  started  copying  it  and  thought  of  [REDACTED]  again.  Could  he  possibly  call  her,  he  won-  dered,  and  do  what  they  had  done  again?  Except  that  she  would  surely  ask  about  Rover,  and  he  couldn't  do  anything  but  lie  to  her.  He  remembered  how  she  had  cud-  dled  Rover  in  her  arms  and  even  kissed  his  nose.  She  had  really  loved  that  puppy.  How  could  he  tell  her  he  was  gone?  Just  sitting  and  thinking  of  her  he  was  hard-  ening  up  like  a  broom  handle  and  he  sud-  denly  thought  what  if  he  called  her  and  said  his  family  were  thinking  of  having  a  second  puppy  to  keep  Rover  company?  But  then  he  would  have  to  pretend  he  still  had  Rover,  which  would  mean  two  lies,  and  that  was  a  little  frightening.  Not  the  lies  so  much  as  trying  to  remember,  first,  that  he  still  had  Rover,  second,  that  he  was  serious  about  a  second  puppy,  and,  third,  the  worst  thing,  that  when  he  got  up  off  [REDACTED]  he  would  have  to  say  that  unfor-  tunately  he  couldn't  actually  take  another  puppy  because  ...  Why?  The  thought  of  all  that  lying  exhausted  him.  Then  he  vi-  sualized  being  in  her  heat  again  and  he  thought  his  head  would  explode,  and  the  idea  came  that  when  it  was  over  she  might  insist  on  his  taking  another  puppy.  Force  it  on  him.  After  all,  she  had  not  accepted  his  three  dollars  and  Rover  had  been  a  sort  of  gift,  he  thought.  It  would  be  em-  barrassing  torefuse  another  puppy,  espe-  cially  when  he  had  supposedly  come  back  to  her  for  exactly  that  reason.  He  didn't  dare  go  through  all  that  and  gave  up  the  whole  idea.  But  then  the  thought  crept  back  again  of  her  spreading  apart  on  the  floor  the  way  she  had,  and  he  returned  to  searching  for  some  reason  he  could  give  for  not  taking  another  puppy  after  he  had  supposedly  come  all  the  way  across  Brook-  lyn  to  get  one.  He  could  just  see  the  look  on  her  face  on  his  turning  down  a  puppy,  the  puzzlement  or,  worse,  anger.  Yes,  she  could  very  possibly  get  angry  and  see  through  him,  realizing  that  all  he  had  come  for  was  to  get  into  her  and  the  rest  of  it  was  nonsense,  and  she  might  feel  in-  sulted.  Maybe  even  slap  him.  What  would  he  do  then?  He  couldn't  fight  a  grown  woman.  Then  again,  it  now  occurred  to  him  that  by  this  time  she  might  well  have  sold  the  other  two  puppies,  which  at  three  dollars  were  pretty  inexpensive.  Then  what?  He  began  to  wonder,  suppose  he  just  called  her  up  and  said  he'd  like  to  come  overagain  and  see  her,  without  mentioning  any  puppies?  He  would  have  to  tell  only  one  lie,  that  he  still  had  Rover  and  that  the  family  all  loved  him  and  so  on.  He  could  easily  remember  that  much.  He  went  to  the  piano  and  played  some  chords,  mostly  in  the  dark  bass,  to  calm  himself.  He  didn't  really  know  how  to  play,  but  he  loved  inventing  chords  and  letting  the  vi-  brations  shoot  up  his  arms.  He  played,  feeling  as  though  something  inside  him  had  sort  of  shaken  loose  or  collapsed  al-  together.  He  was  different  than  he  had  ever  been,  not  empty  and  clear  anymore  but  weightedwith  secrets  and  his  lies,  some  told  and  some  untold,  but  all  of  it  disgusting  enough  to  set  him  slightly  out-  side  his  family,  in  a  place  wherehe  could  watch  them  now,  and  watch  himself  with  them.  He  tried  to  invent  a  melody  with  the  right  hand  and  find  matching  chords  with  the  left.  By  sheer  luck,  he  was  hitting  some  beauties.  It  was  really  amazing  how  his  chords  were  just  slightly  off,  with  a  discordant  edge  but  still  in  some  way  talk-  ing  to  the  right-hand  melody.  His  mother  came  into  the  room  full  of  surprise  and  pleasure.  &quot;What's  happening?&quot;  she  called  out  in  delight.  She  could  play  and  sight-  read  music  andhad  tried  and  failed  to  teach  him,  because,  she  believed,  his  ear  was  too  good  and  he'd  rather  play  what  he  heard  than  do  the  labor  of  reading  notes.  She  came  over  to  the  piano  and  stood  beside  him,  watching  his  hands.  Amazed,  wishing  as  always  that  he  could  be  a  genius,  she  laughed.  &quot;Are  you  mak-  ing  this  up?&quot;  she  almost  yelled,  as  though  they  were  side  by  side  on  a  roller  coaster.  He  could  onlynod,  not  daring  to  speak  and  maybe  lose  what  he  had  somehow  snatched  out  of  the  air,  and  he  laughed  with  her  because  he  was  so  completely  happy  that  he  had  secretly  changed,  and  unsure  at  the  same  time  that  he  would  ever  be  ableto  play  likethis  again. 