   FICTION  TOO  SKINNY  BY  TIM  O'BRIEN  [REDACTED].  He  purchased  a  new  wardrobe,  signed  up  at  a  tanning  salon,  installed  an  Exer-Bike  in  front  of  his  TV,  and,  in  an  exploratory  sort  of  way,  began  spending  his  evenings  in  a  number  of  chic  bars  around  town.  Women  took  notice.  Mary  took  heart.  He  was  forty-one  years  old  and  ludicrously  well  off,  even  factoring  in  the  pending  divorce.  To  manufacture  a  high-end  industrial  mop  cost  just  under  a  dollar  and  a  half,  the  perfect  broom  substantially  less.  Dirt  was  forever,  de-  mand  was  steady.  It  was  true,  of  course,  that  Marv  had  never  found  the  busi-  ness  challenging,  or  even  mildly  interest-  ing,  but  for  a  man  who  had  spent  a  life-  time  caught  up  in  the  sluggishness  of  gross  obesity  there  was  always  the  entre-  preneurial  virtue  of  sitting  at  a  big  rose-  wood  desk  for  hour  upon  profitable     hour,  more  or  less  motionless,  more  or  less  dead.  Now,  though,  Marv  Bertel  day-  dreamed.  Infinite  new  futures  appeared.  In  bed  at  night,  flexing  his  abdominal  muscles  to  the  irregular  beat  of  hisheart,  he  would  picture  himself  on  the  cover  of  Forbes:  capped  teeth,  an  expensive  hair-  cut,  maybe  decked  out  in  one  of  those  fancy  double-breasted  suits  that  not  so  long  ago  had  made  him  look  like  a  giant  Easter  ham.  He  imagined  producing  a  film  ortwo,  jetting  off  to  [REDACTED]  for  dinner  with  the  pretty  people,  showing  up  at  a  college  reunion  in  the  company  z  of  some  wispy  young  starlet.  No  more  &amp;  blubber  jokes.  Just  cheers  and  hugs  and  3  dietary  inquiries.  Such  thoughts  inspired  him.  Impetu-  ously,  consulting  only  his  own  fantasies,  MARTIN  PARR  Mary  set  a  daunting  new  goal  for  him-  self,  a  hundred  and  ninety-nine  pounds,  and  to  his  surprise  he  achieved  it  in  just  under  two  weeks.  A  breeze,  he  decided.  No  reason  to  stop.  He  cut  out  his  late-afternoon  Mar-  tini,  doubled  his  time  on  the  Exer-Bike.  In  the  bathroom  mirror,  slowly  at  first,  then  rapidly,  Mary's  ribs  began  to  surface  like  the  skeleton  of  a  sunken  old  galleon,  ancient-looking,  a  little  fright  ening.  He  dropped  a  full  shoe  size.  Even  his  new  wardrobe  fit  loosely.  Equally  dra-  matic,  though  at  times  more  alarming,  was  the  transformation  in  Mary  Bertel's  personality.  From  boyhood  on,  he  had  been  a  reserved,  quiet-spoken  individual,  tentative  and  shy,  a  loner,  but  now  he  found  himself  passing  along  scraps  of  TV  dialogue  to  his  sleek  young  executive  assistant,  or  telling  jokes  in  elevators,  or  exchanging  life  stories  with  the  young  women  he  chatted  up  in  local  bars.  Often  on  these  occasions  Mary  in-  vented  anecdotes  befitting  his  slim  new  body-a  robust  detail  here,  a  charming  fib  there.  At  various  times,  in  various  night  spots,  he  became  a  third-base  coach  for  the  Rockies,  a  plastic  surgeon,  a  priest,  a  former  priest,  a  scuba  instructor,  an  ex-  convict,  a  contortionist  for  Cirque  du  Soleil.  To  one  young  lady,  an  effervescent  redhead  of  twenty-four,  he  claimed  to  be  a  retired  rodeo  cowboy.  The  following  eve-  ning,in  the  same  establishment  but  to  a  transfixed  brunette,  he  omitted  the  word  &quot;retired,&quot;  which  worked  wonders,  and  which  he  helped  along  with  a  little  limp  as  he  made  his  way  toward  the  men's  room.  Remarkable,  Marv  observed,  what  spiced-  up  hogwash  women  would  swallow  from  the  physically  fit.  Almost  anything.  He  did  not  mention  his  mop-and-  broom  business;  he  avoided  the  inconve-  nient  fact  that  his  divorce  was  not  yet  final.  Granted,  all  this  sometimes  left  him  with  a  slight  aftertaste  of  fraudulence,  but  still,  given  Mary's  unhappy  history,  the  tall  tales  appealed  to  his  sense  of  humor,  and  even  more  to  his  sense  of  revenge.  For  as  long  as  he  could  remember,  he  had  been  relentlessly  teased  and  ridiculed  and  ig-  nored,  always  the  chubby  sidekick,  always  the  comic  relief,  and  it  gave  him  intense  pleasure  to  behold  the  respect,  even  the  awe,  that  spilled  out  like  paint  in  the  eyes  of  fetching  young  women  half  his  age.  He  loved  the  artifice,  the  make-believe,  the  amazing  power  of  a  big  bold  lie.  Also,  he  liked  acting.  Fantasy  made  him  good  at  it.  He  underplayed  his  roles,  reluctantly  allowing  pertinent  misinformation  to  be  pried  piecemeal  from  tight,  modest  lips.  And  he  went  out  of  his  way  never  to  make  advances.  Even  with  the  prettiest  young  lady,  he  was  mercilessly  polite,  ruthlessly  indifferent.  He  disregarded  the  occasional  hand  on  his  thigh.  He  feigned  boredom.  Eyes  roaming,  he  would  survey  the  barroom  scenery  as  if  in  search  of  more  deserving  female  com-  panionship.  And  this,  too,  had  the  feel  of  revenge:  payback  to  those  legions  of  blind-eyed,  fat-biased  young  women  from  his  past.  Mary  felt  no  guilt  at  all.  And  no  re-  morse.  On  the  contrary,  there  was  noth-  ing  more  satisfying  than  to  hoist  up  his  eyebrows  as  some  buxom  porker  dipped  into  a  bowl  of  guacamole  or  mixed  nuts.  Sometimes,  depending  on  his  mood,  he  would  deliver  a  brisk,  earnest  discourse  about  the  elements  of  responsible  nutri-  tion.  Most  often,  though,  he  would  issue  a  disgusted  sigh  and  excuse  himself  and  wander  off  to  another  table.  n  the  morning  of  December  4,  1988,  Marv  Bertel's  bathroom  scale  registered  just  a  hair  under  a  hun-  dred  and  ninety.  He  wept  in  the  shower;  he  wept  again  as  he  towelled  off.  For  the  first  time  in  almost  three  decades,  Mary  felt  firmly  and  wholly  human,  a  blessed  buoyancy  of  body  and  soul.  That  afternoon,  on  impulse,  Mary  hosted  a  boisterous  office  party-loud  music,  early  bonuses-after  which  he  invited  his  young  executive  assistant  to  join  him  for  dinner  at  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  most  upscale  restaurants.  She  accepted,  as  the  trim  new  Mary  knew  she  would,  and  at  seven  o'clock  they  were  led  to  a  coveted  corner  table.  The  menu  was  northern  Italian,  tempting  in  the  ex-  treme.  And  so,  too,  was  Mary's  executive  assistant,  a  dazzling  twenty-six-year-old  by  the  name  of  Sandra  DiLeona.  Wisely,  Marv  seated  himself  out  of  harm's  way,  across  the  table  from  young  Sandra.  He  did,  however,  order  his  first  Martini  in  nearly  two  months,  minus  the  olives,  and  within  ten  minutes  called  for  another.  It  was  the  alcohol,  almost  with-  out  question,  that  soon  inspired  him  to  modify  the  seating  plan.  Mary  moved  to  Sandra's  immediate  right,  loosened  his  tie,  and  leaned  toward  the  young  woman  with  mischief  in  mind.  Intimately,  in  a  low,  already  slurred  voice,  he  confided  that  there  was  a  matter  he  wished  to  dis-  cuss  with  her.  &quot;A  personal  item,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  ticklish.&quot;  Sandra's  eyes  narrowed.  She  was  a  business-school  graduate,  chilly  by  dis-  position,  nothing  if  not  canny.  &quot;Per-  sonal?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  would  that  be?&quot;  Mary  had  no  idea.  He  was  playing  this  by  ear,  adjusting  to  the  harmonics  of  the  moment.  &quot;Ticklish,&quot;  he  repeated,  and  then  glanced  around  the  restaurant  as  if  to  be  sure  no  one  was  listening  in.  He  flexed  his  biceps,  sucked  in  his  stomach.  &quot;The  fact  is,  I'm  not  sure  where  to  start.  A  confession,  I  suppose.  You've  worked  for  me-what?-almost  a  year  now?&quot;  &quot;Ten  months,&quot;  said  Sandra.  &quot;Right,  ten  months,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;And  you  know  me  strictly  as  a  boss.  A  men-  tor.&quot;  He  hesitated.  &quot;I've  made  a  favorable  impression,  I  hope?&quot;  &quot;Sure,  just  fine,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  you're  happy?&quot;  &quot;Happy?&quot;  &quot;With  me.  Your  job.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  guess,&quot;  Sandra  said.  &quot;I've  got  ambitions,  though.  It's  not  like  I  dream  about  mops  at  night.&quot;  Mary  chuckled.  &quot;Of  course  not.  But  you're  satisfied  with-you  know  -with  the  salary,  working  conditions,  all  that?&quot;  Sandra  said  nothing.  Her  shrewd  blue  eyes  conveyed  a  mix  of  puzzlement  and  suspicion.  Mary  gazed  straight  back  at  her.  She  was  a  tall,  slim,  masterfully  assembled  blonde.  Five-ten,  Mary  esti-  mated.  Not  an  ounce  over  a  hundred  and  forty  pounds.  Cover-girl  complexion.  Pouty  lips.  A  few  months  back,  in  his  fat  days,  he  had  paid  almost  no  attention  to  the  girl;  no  point:  she  had  seemed  beyond  reach,  as  icy  and  unobtainable  as  Nep-  tune.  Now  things  were  different.  Bravely,  with  the  inflated  confidence  that  accom-  panies  a  shrunken  belly,  Mary  took  her  hand  and  said,  &quot;Anyway,  a  confession.  Here  goes.  I'm  not  just  a  mopmaker,  I've  also  tried  my  hand  at  .  ..  Wow,  I'm  really  not  sure  how  to  say  this.&quot;  In  truth,  he  was  equally  unsure  about  what  to  say.  He  thought  fast,  reviewing  options,  but  in  the  end  he  did  not  think  nearly  fast  enough.  For  the  remainder  of  Mary's  life,  he  would  regret  his  next  utter-  ance.  It  came  to  him  exactly  as  all  the  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  10,  2001  93  other  barroom  lies  had  come,  out  of  the  old  fatness,  the  new  thinness-all  those  deferred  dreams  and  a  job  he  hated  and  a  stale  marriage  and  a  lifetime  of  mock-  ery  and  humiliation  and  a  craving  for  something  better.  Even  as  he  spoke,  Mary  realized  it  was  a  mistake.  He  tried  to  stop.  He  put  a  hand  to  his  throat,  squeezed  his  eyes  shut.  Do's,  he  thought,  but  his  tongue  kept  moving.  Four  syllables.  Three  words-&quot;I'm  an  author&quot;  -that  would  cost  him  dearly:  panic  attacks,  sleepless  nights,  heart  trouble,  endless  shame,  endless  ra-  tionalizations,  another  miserable  mar-  riage.  Vaguely,  at  least,  he  apprehended  all  this-not  the  details,  of  course,  but  the  general  appalling  drift-and  yet  still  he  could  not  stop.  In  the  years  ahead,  Mary  Bertel  would  reflect  upon  this  in-  stant  with  the  same  self-loathing  and  rei  ctr?  fee  A  C  &quot;vv  si  wt  '~  Cy  alent  ®     self-pity  that  a  lung-cancer  victim  must  feelat  the  memory  of  his  first  cigarette.  &quot;Author?&quot;  said  Sandra.  &quot;Dabbling,  you  mean?  Like  a  hobby?&quot;  A  door  swung  open.  Right  then,  for  a  miraculous  split  sec-  ond,  Marv  had  a  last  opportunity  to  res-  cue  himself.  He  could  have  nodded  and  said,  &quot;Sure,  a  hobby,&quot;  or  he  could  have  shrugged  and  smiled  and  said  nothing.  He  could  have  been  enigmatic.  He  could  have  feigned  modesty.  Again,  for  the  rest  of  his  days  he  would  be  haunted  by  these  options.  But  the  disbelief  on  Sandra's  face-the  contemptuous  slur  of  the  word  &quot;dabbling&quot;-made  him  stiffen  and  take  his  hand  from  his  throat.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said  coldly.  &quot;A  real  writer.  Fiction.&quot;  Sandra  studied  him  for  several  seconds.  What  was  happening  behind  her  crafty  blue  eyes  Mary  could  only  esti-  mate.  A  number  of  minute  calculations,  obviously.  Certain  prospects  and  possi-  bilities  tempered  by  a  healthy  dose  of  M.B.A.  skepticism.  &quot;So  you've  published?&quot;  the  young  woman  said.  &quot;Certainly.  That's  what  we're  dis-  cussing  here.&quot;  &quot;But  I've  never-you  know-I've  never  even  heard  of  you.  Author-wise.&quot;  &quot;No,  dear,  of  course  you  haven't,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Which  is  exactly  why  I  bring  it  up.&quot;  Mary  finished  his  drink,  squeezed  the  glass,  smiled  at  her.  He  was  commit-  ted  now.  &quot;You've  heard  of  pseudonyms?  Very  common  practice,  actually.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I'm  sure,&quot;  Sandra  said.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;What's  what?&quot;  &quot;The  pseudonym,&quot;  she  said.  Swiftly,  Mary  flipped  through  an  in-  ternal  card  catalogue.  Only  the  most  ri-  diculous  possibilities  occurred  to  him,  brand-name  writers  whose  faces  she  would  surely  recognize  from  magazines  or  television.  He  began  to  shrug-to  laugh  it  off  as  a  bit  of  pre-dinner  fun-  when  he  heard  himself  utter  the  name  of  an  accomplished,  highly  regarded,  largely  unread,  obsessively  reclusive  lit-  erary  figure.  Here,  he  knew,  was  the  point  of  no  return.  &quot;Thomas  Pierce?&quot;  Sandra  said.  &quot;That's  you?&quot;  A  muscle  at  Mary's  eye  twitched.  &quot;Impressive,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  be  honest,  I'm  surprised  you're  familiar  with  him.  With  me.  Very  pleasantly  surprised.&quot;  &quot;Well,  why  not?  I  mean,  God,  he's  one  of  .  ..  You're  one  of  our  great,  great,  great  writers.&quot;  &quot;You've  read  the  books?&quot;  Sandra  wagged  her  head.  &quot;Of  course  not.  Nobody  does-that's  not  the  point.  You're  famous.  Everybody  knows  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Not  everybody,&quot;  Mary  said  modestly.  «Well,  no,  not  compared  to-you  know-not  like  a  movie  star  or  some-  thing.  Even  so  .  .  .&quot;  She  stopped  and  chewed  on  her  lower  lip  for  a  few  sec-  onds.  The  skepticism  began  flooding  back  into  her  sharp  blue  eyes.  &quot;O.K.,  so  you're  Thomas  Pierce,  that's  amazing.  But  I  don't  see  how  it's  a  confession.&quot;  Mary  did  not,  either.  He  took  out  a  handkerchief,  wiped  his  forehead,  and  called  for  another  Mar-  tini.  His  thoughts  were  oddly  divided.  In  part,  he  wanted  nothing  more  than  to  slither  through  some  convenient  loop-  hole  in  the  lie.  At  the  same  time,  inex-  plicably,  he  felt  an  almost  ferocious  desire  to  press  the  issue,  to  make  her  believe,  even  to  make  himself  believe.  The  years  of  fat-boy  mediocrity  had  somehow  warped  his  common  sense.  Clearly,  he  told  himself,  there  was  no  way  he  could  get  away  with  this-not  a  chance-and  yet  something  pathological  egged  him  on.  Morbid  curiosity,  maybe.  Certain  secret  longings.  The  truth,  after  all,  was  that  he  could  have  been  a  writer.  He  should  have  been.  He  loved  words,  the  sounds  and  syllables.  Back  in  college,  Marvy  had  majored  in  journalism;  he'd  edited  both  the  yearbook  and  the  Darton  Hall  newspaper.  Even  after  graduating,  over  the  next  several  years,  he  had  often  pictured  himself  heading  for  New  York,  hanging  out  in  coffee  shops  with  a  note-  book  and  some  pencils  and  perhaps  a  ravishing  young  editor  or  two.  Mops  and  brooms  had  put  an  end  to  it.  Inertia,  too,  plus  a  cumbrous  marriage  and  the  burdens  of  obesity.  Now,  staring  into  his  empty  glass,  Mary  took  a  few  moments  to  gather  himself.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  were  asking-?&quot;  &quot;The  confession  stuff,&quot;  said  Sandra.  &quot;Right,  of  course.  Misleading,  I'm  afraid.  What  I  meant  was  ...  It's  a  bit  embarrassing,  really  ..  .  Now  that  I'm  unattached,  nearly  divorced  ..  .  Well,  I  just  needed  to  open  up  and  share  the  secret.  A  friendly  ear.  Some-  one  to  listen.&quot;  Sandra  thought  about  it  for  a  mo-  ment.  &quot;But  why  me?  I'm  an  executive  assistant.&quot;  Mary  smiled,  reached  out,  and  took  her  hand.  &quot;Very  true,&quot;  he  said  adroitly.  &quot;And  therein  lies  my  confession.&quot;  &quot;You  mean-?&quot;  &quot;For  ten  infatuated  months.&quot;  ary  broke  his  own  rule  that  eve-  ning.  Not  only  did  he  make  un-  ambiguous  advances  toward  the  star-  struck  young  lady,  but  he  also  went  home  with  her,  and  to  bed,  under  what  even  he  recognized  as  false  pretenses.  Worse  yet,  Mary  fell  in  love,  or  imagined  he  did.  True,  it  was  not  the  dry-mouthed,  head-over-heels  love  of  his  youth.  At  best,  Mary  decided,  it  was  the  sort  of  love  that  visits  a  man  who  has  recently  shed  nearly  a  third  of  his  body  weight,  whose  divorce  is  six  weeks  from  final,  and  whose  last  sexual  encounter  had  resulted  in  severe  fibrillation  and  little  else.  He  slept  with  Sandra  again  the  fol-  lowing  night,  and  then  every  night  for  the  next  two  months.  In  most  respects,  the  af-  fair  was  thrilling.  Flattering,  too:  the  way  she  looked  at  him  with  deference  and  delight  and  sometimes  outright  vener-  ation.  He  liked  the  girl's  intelligence,  her  bedroom  professionalism,  even  her  calcu-  lating,  what's-in-it-for-me  posture  to-  ward  the  world.  She  had  the  body  of  a  fashion  model,  the  central  nervous  sys-  tem  of  a  Pentagon  mainframe.  For  Mary,  all  this  was  new  and  exhilarating,  but  even  so,  at  day's  end,  his  thoughts  were  drenched  in  the  purest  terror.  He  couldn't  sleep,  couldn't  think.  As  a  literary  alter  ego,  Thomas  Pierce  had  been  an  unfor-  tunate  choice.  The  man  was  a  hermit,  true-aversion  to  cameras,  aversion  to  people-but  he  was  also  a  master  of  the  written  word,  a  linguistic  wonder  boy  des-  tined  for  Stockholm,  and  the  enormity  and  gross  stupidity  of  the  fabrication  made  Mary's  spine  go  cold.  At  random  moments,  he  was  paralyzed  by  shame,  by  the  pending  horror  of  discovery.  And  there  was  no  escape.  All  day,  Sandra  sat  at  a  huge  operations  desk  just  outside  his  office.  At  night,  she  lay  beside  him  in  bed,  scanning  one  of  Pierce's  most  ab-  struse  novels,  now  and  then  looking  up  to  inquire  about  a  metaphor  or  some  ob-  secure  scrap  of  language.  Mary  did  what  he  could  to  deflect  such  questions.  He  would  sigh,  or  shrug,  and  explain  that  lit  erature  was  meant  to  be  experienced,  not  explicated.  Other  times,  he  would  roll  over  and  feign  sleep.  Eyes  closed,  frozen  stiff  by  his  own  foolishness,  he'd  listen  to  the  whispery  sound  of  pages  being  turned,  of  Sandra's  breathing,  and  in  those  miserable  moments  he  would  count  himself  lucky  for  even  the  smallest  blessings.  Thomas  Pierce,  praise  God,  did  not  permit  photographs  on  his  books.  Nor  had  Sandra  yet  inquired  about  such  sticky  issues  as  royalty  state-  ments  or  work  in  progress.  Still,  the  strain  on  Mary's  constitution  became  incapacitating.  By  the  turn  of  the  year,  he'd  dropped  another  six  pounds,    tightened  his  belt  a  notch.  In  the  office,  behind  a  locked  door,  he  spent  his  work-  days  trying  to  come  up  with  some  hon-  orable  solution.  He  considered  firing  the  girl.  He  considered  selling  the  factory,  removing  himself  to  Tasmania  or  Kuala  Lumpur.  The  difficulty,  though,  was  that  Mary's  heart  was  firmly  engaged.  De-  spite  Sandra's  flaws-especially  that  hard-edged,  profit-and-loss  shrewd-  ness  in  her  eyes-she  was  a  living  em-  blem  of  all  those  lovely  young  women  who  eight  or  nine  months  ago  would  not  have  given  him  the  time  of  day.  He  did  not  want  to  lose  her,  or  the  idea  of  her.  In  the  end,  therefore,  Mary  did  noth-  ing.  He  waited.  He  envisioned  miracles:  nuclear  ho-  locaust,  epidemic  amnesia.  t  the  turn  of  the  year,  on  January  1,  1989,  Mary  Bertel  weighed  in  at  a  hundred  and  seventy-four  pounds,  which  for  a  man  standing  six-three,  with  a  heart  condition  and  chronic  insomnia,  began  to  border  on  the  unwholesome.  Five  days  later,  he  was  down  to  a  hun-  dred  and  seventy  even.  The  diet,  he  knew,  had  little  to  do  with  it;  fear  alone  was  sucking  the  muscle  from  his  bones.  He  had  no  appetite,  no  energy.  There  were  times  now-numerous  times-when  Mary  found  himself  look-  ing  back  on  his  obesity  asif  recollecting  a  dear  departed  friend,  a  steadfast  com-  rade  who  was  always  on  hand  with  good  cheer  and  a  quart  or  two  of  premium  ice  cream.  Not  that  Mary  had  been  a  happy  man  back  then.  Far  from  it.  All  the  same,  for  better  or  for  worse,  he  had  managed  to  waddle  through  the  world  with  at  least  the  appearance  of  contentment  and  portly  self-respect.  He  had  gotten  by.  For  forty-one  years  he  had  slept  the  sleep  of  the  nearly  innocent.  Now,  odd  as  it  seemed,  he  could  not  help  mourning  the  jolly  old  Mary.  These  changes  were  nerve-racking.  And  there  was  also  the  deceit:  it  was  eating  him  alive.  In  ways  both  physical  and  psychological,  Marv  had  become  a  shadow  of  himself,  and  even  that  unfa-  miliar,  shrunken  shadow  often  terrified  him.  With  each  miserable  day,  he  turned  a  little  jumpier,  a  little  more  irritable,  his  stomach  fluttering  whenever  Sandra  en-  tered  a  room  or  started  tospeak.  Discov-  ery  was  a  certainty-a  matter  of  when  96  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  10,  2001  and  where,  never  if-and  yet  Mary  was  still  surprised,  even  shocked,  when  the  inevitabilities  finally  tracked  him  down  in  early  February.  For  several  days,  San-  dra  had  become  uncommonly  quiet,  stealing  little  glances  at  him,  and  at  din-  ner  one  evening  she  put  down  her  fork,  wiped  her  mouth,  and  said,  &quot;Some-  thing's  bothering  me.&quot;  Mary  closed  his  eyes.  He  knew  more  or  less  what  was  in  store.  &quot;I  don't  mean  to  pry,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  I  really,  really  have  to  ask  this.  You  and  me-us-it's  a  serious  relationship,  isn't  it?  I  mean,  this  isn't  some  stupid  office  fling,  we'rea  team,  and  we  need  to  be  open  about  everything.&quot;  &quot;Open,&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;Naturally.&quot;  &quot;Right.  And  I  feel  ...  I  get  suspicious  sometimes.  I  can't  help  it.&quot;  Marv  looked  away  briefly,  then  looked  back  at  her  with  hurt  in  his  heart.  It  was  completely  genuine.  For  all  his  terror,  all  the  sleepless  nights,  he  was  now  struck  by  the  indignation  of  a  man  not  wholly  trusted.  He  glared  at  her.  &quot;Looks,  I  know  it's  not  healthy,&quot;  San-  dra  said  quickly,  &quot;but  I'mnot  used  to  putting  much  faith  in  people.  Especially  men.  Older  men.  And  that's  important,  isn't  it?  That's  what  makes  a  relationship  tick.&quot;  She  averted  her  eyes.  &quot;So  I've  been  thinking-and  I  don't  mean  this  in  a  bad  way-but  the  thing  is,  I  mean,  you're  a  writer,  a  famous  writer,  except  you  don't  ever  write.&quot;  Mary  shrugged.  &quot;Don't  I?&quot;  he  mur-  mured.  &quot;Well,  no.  Do  you?&quot;  He  gave  the  girl  a  cryptic  frown,  folded  his  napkin,  leaned  back,  and  lied.  He  informed  her-with  vehemence,  voice  quavering-that  literature  was  not  some  seedy  public  sideshow,  that  it  was  pursued  in  absolute  artistic  solitude,  paragraph  by  paragraph,  syllable  by  syl-  lable,  and  that  in  point  of  fact  he  slaved  over  his  work  every  day,  every  hour,  every  minute-in  fact,  every  instant  of  every  minute.  &quot;What  else,&quot;  he  said  sternly,  &quot;do  you  imagine  I  might  be  doing  behind  that  locked  office  door?  Computer  games?  Solitaire?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  think-&quot;  &quot;Moreover,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;this  isn't  some-  thing  a  real  writer  talks  about.  We  don't  chat  our  books  into  oblivion,  we  don't  broadcast  creative  news  bulletins.&quot;  His  voice  had  sailed  up  an  octave.  Even  as  Marv  spoke,  elaborating  on  the  general  theme  of  privacy,  it  struck  him  that  he  meant  every  ardent  word.  He  believed  himself.  As  if  under  hypnosis,  transfixed  by  a  besieged,  self-righteous  passion,  he  talked  about  the  incessant  turmoil  of  any  worthy  writer,  the  uncertainties,  the  sub-  jectivity,  the  failures  of  nerve  and  lan-  guage,  the  strain  of  wrestling  with  Satan  for  a  line  or  two  of  decent  prose.  He  cited  Conrad  on  the  subject.  He  cited  Baudelaire.  &quot;You  of  all  people,&quot;  Mary  said,  &quot;should  understand  that  literature  bubbles  through  my  blood.  It's  my  oxy-  gen,  my  heartbeat.&quot;  Sandra  surveyed  his  face  for  a  second.  She  backed  off.  &quot;Fair  enough,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  mean,  if  you're  actually  writing,  well,  fine,  I'm  glad.&quot;  &quot;Swell  of  you,&quot;  Mary  muttered,  though  his  tone  was  begrudging  and  whiny.  In  part  this  was  genuine.  In  much  larger  part,  however,  it  was  a  mask  forhis  amazement  at  how  easy  it  had  been,  how  swiftly  she'd  surrendered.  Then  again,  he  thought,  who  would  not?  The  au-  dacity  of  the  Tie-its  scope  and  grandeur,  its  breathtaking  magnitude-suddenly  unnerved  him.  It  was  not,  after  all,  as  if  he  were  claiming  to  be  some  backwater  hack,  some  scribbling  midlist  nobody.  He  had  appropriated  genius.  He  had  taken  forhis  own  an  entire  life's  work,  a  couple  of  masterpieces,  a  way  of  think-  ing,  a  way  of  being,  another  man's  ener-  gies  and  chemistry  and  fame  and  labor  and  God-given  virtuosity.  The  realization  sickened  him.  Something  sour  and  deadly  roseinto  his  throat,  like  the  taste  of  cancer,  and  at  that  instant  Mary  came  within  a  single  breath  of  disclosing  everything.  But  also  at  that  instant,  across  the  table,  Sandra  gave  her  hair  a  little  toss  and  said,  &quot;Prob-  lem  is,  I  still  don't  get  it.&quot;  &quot;Get?&quot;  said  Mary.  &quot;Well,  I'm  an  executive  assistant,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  see  your  mail,  I  take  your  calls,  and  there's  never  ...  never  anything  lit-  erary.  It's  all  mops  and  brooms.&quot;  The  impulse  to  confess  evaporated,  replaced  by  a  kind  of  wounded  fury.  It  was  perverse,  Mary  knew,  but  some  bull-  headed  aspect  of  his  personality  rebelled  against  such  galling  cynicism.  For  the  next  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  he  delivered  a  soliloquy  about  the  role  of  literary  agents,  about  anonymity,  about  direct  bank  deposits,  about  issues  of  seclusion  and  creative  deck-clearing.  There  were  people,  he  told  her,  to  whom  he  paid  a  pretty  penny  to  handle  fan  mail  and  con-  tracts  and  all  the  other  petty  distractions.  &quot;I'm  a  language  man,&quot;  he  said,  ahttle  too  ferociously,  &quot;not  a  garbage  man.&quot;  Sandra  nodded,  pushed  to  her  feet,  and  without  a  word  began  clearing  the  |  table.  She  was  silent  for  the  remainder  of  the  evening.  Several  times,  however,  he  caught  her  looking  at  him,  biting  her  lip,  and  at  one  point  he  had  the  sensation  of  being  studied  as  if  through  one-way  glass,  as  if  at  a  police  lineup.  Mary  mistook  it  for  adulation.  It  was  not.  In  bed  that  night,  lights  out,  she  said,  &quot;I  went  on  the  Web  today.  Found  a  photograph.&quot;  &quot;Did  you?&quot;  Mary  said.  &quot;I  did.  An  old  one.  It  was  pretty  fuzzy,  and  I  guess  it  was  taken  twenty-five,  thirty  years  ago.  But  no  resemblance.  It  wasn't  you.&quot;  Mary  heard  himself  chuckle.  Not  a  single  exculpatory  thought  occurred  to  him.  Dumbly,  like  dust,  he  was  blown  here  and  there  by  the  jet  stream  of  his  own  folly.  He  was  no  longer  in  the  world.  He  wassomewhere  else.  A  trillion  years  ago,  it  seemed,  this  had  all  started  as  a  way  to  get  noticed,  a  way  to  Ze  somebody,  a  sort  of  game,  a  pickup  line,  and  now  the  convolutions  had  him  tumbling  in  the  dark.  He  chuckled  again,  but  his  eyes  stung.  &quot;If  you  think  this  is  funny,&quot;  Sandra  said  quietly,  &quot;you'rea  pitiful  human  being.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  not  funny.&quot;  &quot;So  explain.&quot;  Marv  sat  up  in  bed.  Oddly,  he  was  now  very,  very  hungry.  &quot;Yes,  why  on  earth  not?&quot;  he  murmured,  and  pinched  the  bridge  of  his  nose.  He  swallowed  hard.  He  yearned  for  a  T-bone.  After  a  moment,  Mary  took  a  breath  and  spoke  slowly,  painfully,  but  with  immense  valor.  &quot;The  fact  is,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;two  of  us  write  those  books.  I'm  shy,  he's  not.  What  you  sawwas  the  other  guy's  picture.&quot;  &quot;Other  guy?&quot;  Over  the  next  twenty  seconds,  which  had  the  half-life  of  plutonium,  Mary  unearthed  a  good  many  nuggets  of  wis-  dom.  Most  alarmingly  this:  There  is  no  outer  limit  to  mankind's  credulity.  Anything  goes.  The  Easter  Bunny.  The  indelibility  of  love.  A  god  with  white  whiskers  and  a  hearty  laugh.  Almost  al-  ways,  with  only  the  most  modest  reser-  vations,  the  human  creature  prefers  an  elusive  miracle  to  an  everyday  lie.  Moreover,  at  the  last  minute,  Mary  blurted  out  a  piece  of  dialogue  worthy  of  Thomas  Pierce  himself,  a  stroke  of  ge-  nius  that  instantaneously  bought  him  both  trust  and  time.  &quot;Will  you  marry  me?&quot;  he  said.  he  victory,  of  course,  was  short-  lived.  There  was  a  three-day  erotica-  fest,  with  all  its  illusory  distractions,  after  which  Mary  awoke  to  a  headache  and  the  knowledge  that  he  had  managed  lit-  tle  more  than  to  deepen  his  grave  and  dump  in  the  worms.  It  was  true  that  Sandra's  will  to  be-  Lieve  had  temporarily  short-circuited  her  common  sense.  But  it  was  also  true  that  for  Mary  the  consequences  and  penalties  had  multiplied  beyond  measure.  There  was  nothing  droll  about  it.  There  was  nothing  cute,  nothing  clever.  Each  tick  of  the  clock  pumped  poison  through  his  veins.  He  couldn't  sit  still,  couldn't  read  a  newspaper  or  enjoy  a  simple  bath.  At  night,  when  sleep  finally  came,  his  dreams  were  blistered  by  lurid  cartoons  of  Judgment  Day-truth  cops  with  halos,  heavenly  polygraphs.  His  misery  was  absolute.  Every  chime  of  a  doorbell,  every  beep  of  a  horn  carried  the  echo  of  a  hangman's  trapdoor.  By  daylight,  in  the  mop  factory,  Mary's  heart  would  snap  at  the  sound  of  the  girl's  approach-  ing  footsteps.  His  breathing  would  go  quick  and  shallow;  his  future  would  go  void.  There  were  times-many  times-  when  he  had  trouble  accepting  the  real-  ity  of  his  own  monstrous  fraud.  It  didn't  seem  possible.  Until  now,  he'd  had  no  idea  that  he  was  even  remotely  capable  of  such  suicidal  lunacy.  A  merry  fat  boy.  A  mop  man.  A  pitiful,  puffed-up  yo-  yo  with  a  couple  of  secret  chips  on  his  shoulder.  Nothing  more.  In  a  sense,  Mary  thought,  it  was  as  if  the  diet  had  stripped  away  two  hun-  dred  pounds  of  spiritual  camouflage;  what  remained  in  his  bathroom  mirror  was  a  ghoulish,  unrecognizable  bag  of  bones,  a  stranger  who  terrified  and  dis-  gusted  him.  Over  the  next  few  days,  he  dropped  another  three  pounds.  Tufts  of  hair  fell  from  his  scalp.  A  pair  of  teeth  loosened  in  his  jaw.  His  appetite  had  returned-  he  was  starving-but  he  couldn't  make  himself  swallow.  Each  hour  of  his  life,  it  now  seemed,  had  the  napand  weave  of  one  of  Thomas  Pierce's  most  gro-  tesque  fictions,  freakish  and  scary,  ruled  by  entropy,  a  madhouse  of  make-believe  looping  back  upon  itself  in  infinite  ellipses.  In  the  first  week  of  March,  on  the  day  Mary's  divorce  came  through,  Sandra  mailed  out  a  thick  stack  of  engagement  announcements.  &quot;I  have  friends,  I  have  a  family,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  keep  it  a  secret?  Unless  there's  some-  thing  to  hide.&quot;  She  squinted  up  at  him,  holding  his  gaze  until  he  looked  away.  For  Mary,  it  was  a  hard  moment.  &quot;Nothing  hidden  in  the  least,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course,  I  do  hope  you're  not  let-  ting  on  about  the  Pierce  business.  That's  sacred.  That's  holy.&quot;  &quot;Understood,&quot;  Sandra  said.  &quot;Holy.&quot;  &quot;A  promise,  then?&quot;  &quot;Sure.  Not  a  peep.&quot;  Nonetheless,  that  very  evening,  Mary  overheard  fragments  of  a  whispered,  dis-  turbingly  boastful  phone  conversation  in  which  Sandra  flagrantly  violated  the  spirit  if  not  the  letter  of  her  pledge.  Plain  as  day,  he  caught  the  phrase  &quot;literary  big-  wig&quot;;  also  the  words  &quot;stupid  recluse.&quot;  When  the  girl  hung  up,  Mary  in-  stantly  confronted  her.  &quot;That,&quot;  he  said  crossly,  &quot;was  a  peep.  A  complete  fucking  squawk.&quot;  &quot;Look,  I'm  proud  of  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  want  people-&quot;  Marvy  waved  a  hand.  &quot;What  hap-  pened  to  holy?  You  flat-out  Z#ed  to  me-  a  blatant,  transparent,  point-blank  lie-  and  don't  you  ever,  ever  forget  it.&quot;  &quot;And  what  does  that  mean?&quot;  said  Sandra.  &quot;It  means,&quot;  he  said  gamely,  &quot;squawk,  squawk.&quot;  He  said  nothing  else.  The  best  defense,  Mary  had  come  to  understand,  was  a  thermonuclear  offense,  followed  if  necessary  by  im-  mediate  and  unconditional  surrender.  The  end  of  the  road,  he  realized.  No  more.  He  grunted,  spun  on  his  heel,  moved  briskly  to  the  refrigerator,  and  wolfed  down  his  first  full  pint  of  ice  cream  in  nearly  a  year.  His  appetite  was  huge.  He  could  eat  again.  It  was  a  kind  of  quit-  tance,  to  be  sure,  but  it  was  also  a  joy.  Al-  ready,  ounce  by  ounce,  he  could  feel  the  ice  cream  converting  itself  into  the  old  Marv,  maybe  bigger,  maybe  better.  Be-  fore  retiring  that  night,  he  consumed  a  can  of  unheated  baked  beans,  a  Key-  lime  pie,  a  lamb  chop,  a  pear,  a  jar  of  chutney,  and  two  or  three  fistfuls  of  chopped  walnuts.  In  bed,  after  he'd  lost  a  portion  of  his  snack  to  the  toilet,  Sandra  said,  &quot;You're  not  Thomas  Pierce,  are  you?&quot;  &quot;I  am  not.&quot;  &quot;Not  a  writer  at  all?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I'm  skinny.&quot;  hey  married  anyway.  There  were  terms,  however:  a  cash  stipend,  sep-  arate  bedrooms,  a  half  interest  in  the  factory,  an  ironclad  will.  &quot;If  you  ever  |  cross  me,  if  you  ever  irritate  me,&quot;  Sandra  announced  on  the  eve  of  their  wedding,  &quot;the  whole  world  finds  out  what  a  creepy,  contemptible  liar  you  are.&quot;  &quot;We  could  call  it  off,&quot;  Mary  sug-  gested.  &quot;The  wedding,  the  honeymoon.&quot;  |  &quot;Now  that,&quot;  Sandra  told  him  with  a  glare,  &quot;is  what  I  mean  by  irritate.&quot;  Her  M.B.A.  training  had  come  to  bear.  She  was  already  in  possession  of  the  family  checkbooks  and  an  altogether  rigorous  prenuptial  agreement.  By  and  large,  Marv  had  no  quarrel  with  any  of  this.  He  deserved  his  pun-  ishment.  He'dbeen  expecting  it,  even  craving  it,  although  perhaps  not  the  life  sentence  that  had  been  handed  down.  Still,  as  in  anything,  the  pluses  and  mi-  nuses  balanced  out.  All  said  and  done,  he  had  secured  the  glossy  veneer  of  the  wife  he'd  always  wanted.  He  had  visiting  privileges.  He  had  regular,  if  severely  restricted,  conjugal  rights.  There  were  times,  in  fact,  as  he  lunched  on  brisket  or  supped  on  a  soufflé,  when  Marv  found  himself  positively  swollen  with  admiration  for  his  bride-to-be;  more  important,  there  was  never  a  time  when  he  did  not  wholly  respect  her.  In  the  end,  Mary  reasoned,  he'd  had  the  amaz-  ing  good  fortune  to  bump  into  a  woman  who  could  appreciate  a  straightforward  lie  or  two,  who  could  give  credit  where  credit  was  due,  and  who  could  without  compunction  return  tit  for  tat.  Under  her  hardheaded  leadership,  the  mop-and-broom  enterprise  would  surely  flourish.  Also,  of  course,  there  were  liabili-  ties.  On  the  debit  side  of  life's  forth-  coming  ledger,  Sandra  had  imposed  thecondition  that  he  remain  forever  Thomas  Pierce,  literary  loner,  evasive  man  of  letters.  &quot;I've  told  my  mom  and  dad,  both  my  sisters,  my  friends,  my  masseuse,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;There's  a  price.  If  I  have  to  live  a  lie,  then  so  do  you.&quot;  She  gave  him  a  warning  frown,  allowed  the  coming  decades  to  take  traction  in  his  soul,  and  then  primly  kissed  his  forehead.  &quot;And  by  the  way,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;stop  eating.&quot;  he  ceremony,  like  the  bride,  was  expensive  and  lovely  and  thor-  oughly  businesslike.  A  sunlit  day  in  June.  An  outdoor  wedding.  Three  hundred  guests,  all  but  twelve  known  only  to  Sandra.  Blackmail  aside,  conscience  and  wis-  dom  long  abandoned,  Mary  made  the  best  of  it.  The  champagne  helped,  as  did  several  slices  of  a  superb  rum-and-  chocolate  wedding  cake,  and  after  some  100  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  10,  200!  bleak  moments  Mary  offered  up  a  con-  gratulatory  shrug  to  fate  and  began  to  bask  in  the  bright  side,  most  espe-  cially  the  chance  to  reprise  the  much  re-  hearsed  literary  role  of  Thomas  Pierce.  His  performance,  he  judged,  was  so-so.  Properly  mysterious,  adequately  pomp-  ous.  He  took  pleasure  in  the  autograph  requests,  the  hushed  greetings  from  longtime  fans.  One  of  Sandra's  teen-  age  nieces,  who  came  equippedwith  a  suggestive  smile  and  largely  bared  breasts,  represented  the  day's  high-  water  mark:  all  the  signs  of  a  groupie  in  the  making.  She  gawked.  She  fed  him  oysters.  At  one  point,  when  the  girl's  zealous  tongue  slipped  into  his  ear,  it  occurred  to  Mary  that  to  every  dutiful  husband  came  the  annual  chores  and  responsibilities  of  the  family  reunion.  And  it  also  struck  him,  as  the  admiring  in-law's  breasts  opened  up  to  take  the  curve  of  his  belly,  that  this  unlikely  marriage,  conceived  in  Hell,  might  well  prove  enduring.  As  for  Sandra,  she  was  radiant.  During  the  toasts,  Mary's  new  bride  tapped  his  nose  with  five  carats  of  com-  pressed  carbon.  &quot;If  you  put  the  scam  on  that  bitch-niece  of  mine  ever  again,&quot;  she  said  gently,  almost  with  compassion,  «  7  p  *  »  you're  just  a  dirt-poor  ex.  hey  honeymooned  in  the  Alps.  Resolutely,  with  exhausting  self-  discipline,  Mary  worked  his  way  through  the  sauces  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  northern  4974616c79.  Sandra  shopped.  In  early  July,  when  they  landed  in  [REDACTED],  Mary  stepped  on  a  baggage  scale,  waited  for  the  needle  to  settle,  and  then  sighed  with  the  satisfaction  of  a  man  who  after  a  long,  fugitive  absence  had  finally  worked  his  way  home.  Or  almost  home.  The  sober  truth,  he  perceived,  was  that  his  fling  with  fantasy  had  put  a  seal  on  his  life.  Except  for  mere  flesh,  which  might  well  compound  itself  even  in  the  grave,  he  had  come  to  the  dead  end  of  things.  Which  was  partly  sad,  partly  happy.  For  all  those  ravenous  decades,  Marvy  had  been  governed  by  gluttony,  not  solely  of  the  stomach  but  even  more  of  hope,  a  hunger  for  all  that  he  was  not,  all  that  he  would  never  be,  a  hunger  of  dream  and  vision,  a  rapacious  and  bottomless  and  ultimately  fatal  appetite  for  an  ever-  elusive  otherness.  He  had  squired  fan-  tasy  to  thedance.  He  had  left  alone.  With  that  ended,  and  with  Sandra  now  calling  the  mop-and-broom  shots,  Mary  settled  into  what  remained.  He  took  solitary  lunches.  He  feasted-  though  without  the  old  pleasure-on  al-  most  anything  that  presented  itself.  As  before,  he  waddled  through.  He  had  made  his  own  bed;  he  slept  in  it.  And  at  the  first  impossible  whisper  of  reverie,  even  the  most  banal  little  aspiration  for  himself,  he  would  switch  it  off  as  if  it  were  some  rigged  TV  game  show  that  had  neverpaid  a  winner.  A  languid  life,  yes.  And  mostly  point-  less.  But  not  entirely  unsatisfying.  To  pass  the  days,  Marv  sometimes  locked  his  office  door,  put  the  intercom  on  mute,  and  jotted  down  memories  of  his  encounter  with  skinniness.  Not  for  public  print,  of  course.  He  had  learned  his  lesson.  Still,  he  had  fun  with  sen-  tences.  He  changed  a  few  names,  his  own  included,  and  chuckled  over  delica-  cies  of  motive  and  meaning.  He  in-  vented  some  things.  He  enlarged  upon  others.  It  became  in  the  end  a  sort  of  romance,  and  he  a  writer,  as  if  by  do-  ing  that  he  could  undo  a  lie,  dissolve  the  fiction  of  his  own  fucked-up  life.   