 FICTION  SITTING  WITH  THE  DEAD  His  eyes  had  been  closed  and  he  opened  them,  saying  he  wanted  to  see  the  stable  yard.  Emily's  expression  was  empty  of  response.  Her  face,  youn-  ger  than  his  and  yet  not  seeming  so,  was  empty  of  everything  except  the  tiredness  she  felt.  &quot;From  the  window?&quot;  she  said.  No,  he'd  go  down,  he  said.  &quot;Will  you  get  me  the  coat?  And  have  the  boots  by  the  door.&quot;  She  turned  away  from  the  bed.  He  would  manageon  his  own  if  she  didn't  help  him;  she'd  known  him  for  twenty-eight  years,  been  married  to  him  for  twenty-  three.  Whether  or  not  she  brought  the  coat  up  to  him  would  make  no  difference,  any  more  than  it  would  if  she  protested.  &quot;It  could  kill  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  fresh  air'd  strengthen  a  man.&quot;  Downstairs,  she  placed  the  boots  ready  for  him  at  the  back  door.  She  brought  his  cap  and  muffler  to  him  with  his  overcoat.  A  stitch  was  needed  where  the  left  sleeve  met  the  shoulder,  she  no-  ticed.  She  hadn't  before  and  knew  he  wouldn't  wait  while  she  repaired  it  now.  &quot;What're  you  going  to  do  there?&quot;  she  asked,  and  he  said  nothing  much.  Tidy  up  a  bit,  he  said.  e  died  eight  days  later,  and  Dr.  Ann  explained  that  tidying  the  stable  yard  with  only  a  coat  over  his  pajamas  wouldn't  have  hastened  anything.  An  hour  after  she  left,  the  Geraghtys  came  to  the  house,  not  knowing  that  he  was  dead.  It  was  half  past  seven  in  the  evening  then.  At  the  same  time  the  next  morning,  Keane  the  undertaker  was  due.  She  said  that  to  the  Geraghtys,  making  sure  they  understood,  not  wanting  them  to  think  she  was  turning  them  away  for  some  other  reason.  Although  she  knew  that  if  her  husband  had  been  alive  he  wouldn't  have  agreed  to  have  the  Geraghtys  at  his  bedside.  It  was  a  relief  that  they  had  come  too  late.  The  Geraghtys  were  two  middle-aged  women,  sisters,  the  Misses  Geraghty,  who  sat  with  the  dying.  Emily  had  heard  of  TO  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  30,  2001  BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR  them  but  did  not  know  them,  not  even  to  see;  they'd  had  to  give  their  name  when  she  opened  the  door  to  them.  It  had  never  occurred  to  her  that  the  Geraghtys  would  attempt  to  bring  their  good  works  to  the  sickroom  she  had  lived  with  herself  for  the  last  seven  months.  They  were  Legion  of  Mary  women,  famed  for  their  charity,  tireless  in  their  support  of  the  Society  of  St.  Vincent  de  Paul  and  their  promulga-  tion  of  the  writings  of  Father  Xavier  O'Shea,  a  local  priest  who,  at  a  young  age  in  the  eighteen-eighties,  had  contracted  malaria  in  the  mission  fields  of  the  East.  &quot;We  only  heard  of  your  trouble  Tues-  day,&quot;  the  thinner  and  smaller  of  the  two  apologized.  &quot;It  does  happen  the  occa-  sional  time  we  wouldn't  hear.&quot;  The  other  woman,  more  robust  and  older,  allowed  herself  jewelry  and  make-  up  and  took  more  care  with  her  clothes.  But  it  was  her  quiet,  sharp-featured  sis-  ter  who  took  the  lead.  «We  heard  in  MacClincy's,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry  you've  had  a  wasted  journey.&quot;  &quot;It's  never  wasted.&quot;  There  was  a  pause,  as  if  a  pause  was  necessary  here.  &quot;You  have  our  sympathy&quot;  was  added  to  that;  the  explanation  of  why  the  journey  had  not  been  in  vain.  The  conversation  took  place  entirely  at  the  hall  door.  Dusk  was  becoming  dark,  but  over  the  whitewashed  wall  of  the  small  front  garden  Emily  still  could  see  a  car  drawn  up  in  the  road.  It  was  cold,  the  wind  gone  round  to  the  east.  They  meant  well,  these  women,  even  if  they'd  got  everything  wrong,  driving  out  from  Carra  to  visit  a  man  who  wouldn't  have  welcomed  them  and  then  arriving  too  late,  a  man  whose  death  had  spared  them  an  embarrassment.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  cup  of  tea?&quot;  Emily  offered.  She  imagined  they'd  refuse  and  then  begin  to  go,  saying  they  couldn't  dis-  turb  her  at  a  time  like  this.  But  the  big,  wide-shouldered  one  glanced  at  her  sis-  ter,  hesitating.  &quot;If  you're  alone,&quot;  the  smaller  one  said,  &quot;you'd  be  welcome  to  our  company.  If  it  Y  pany.  would  be  of  help  to  you.&quot;  he  dead  man  had  been  without  reli-  gion.  Anyone  could  have  told  them  that,  Emily  reflected,  making  tea.  He  would  have  said  that  there  was  more  to  their  sitting  at  the  bedsides  of  the  ill  than  met  the  eye,  and  she  wondered  if  that  could  possibly  be  so.  Did  they  in  their  compassionate  travels  hope  for  the  first  signs  of  the  belief  that  often  came  out  of  nowhere  when  death  declared  its  intention?  Did  they  drive  away  from  the  houses  they  visited,  straight  to  a  pres-  bytery,  their  duty  done?  She  had  never  heard  that  said  about  the  Geraghtys  and  she  didn't  want  to  believe  it.  They  meant  well,  she  said  to  herself  again.  Whenthey  left,  she  wouldn't  go  back  upstairs  to  look  at  the  dead  features.  She'd  leave  him  now  to  Keane  in  the  morning.  In  the  brief  time  that  had  elapsed,  a  day  had  been  settled  for  the  fu-  neral,  Thursday  of  next  week;  in  the  morning  she  would  let  a  few  people  know;,  she'd  put  a  notice  in  the  Adver  tiser.  No  children  had  been  born;  when  Thursday  had  passed  everything  would  be  over  except  for  the  unpaid  debts.  She  buttered  slices  of  brack  and  stirred  the  tea  in  the  pot.  She  carried  in  the  tray.  They  hadn't  taken  their  coats  off  but  satas  still  as  statues,  a  little  apart  from  each  other.  &quot;It's  cold,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;T'll  light  the  fire.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  no.  Ah,  no,  don't  bother.&quot;  They  both  protested,  but  she  did  anyway,  and  the  kindling  that  had  been  in  the  grate  all  summer  flared  up  at  once.  She  poured  their  tea,  asking  if  they  took  sugar,  and  then  offering  the  slices  of  currant  loaf.  They  began  to  call  her  Emily,  as  if  they  knew  her  well.  They  gave  their  own  names:  Kathleen,  the  older  sister,  and  Norah.  &quot;I  didn't  think,&quot;  Kathleen  began  to  say,  and  Norah  interrupted  her.     &quot;Oh,  we  know  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're  Protestant  here,  but  that  never  made  a  difference  yet.&quot;  They  had  sat  with  the  Methodist  minister,  the  Reverend  Wolfe,  Kathleen  said.  They'd  read  to  him,  they'd  brought  in  whatever  he  wanted.  They  were  there  when  he  went.  &quot;Never  a  difference,&quot;  Norah  repeated,  *  &gt;     and  in  turn  they  took  a  slice  of  brack.  They  commented  on  it,  saying  it  was  excellent.  &quot;It  isn't  easy,&quot;  Kathleen  said  when  the  conversation  lapsed.  &quot;The  first  few  hours.  We  often  stay.&quot;  &quot;It  was  good  of  you  to  think  of  him.&quot;  &quot;It's  cheerful  with  that  fire,  Emily,&quot;  Kathleen  said.  z  They  asked  her  about  the  horses,  be-  §  cause  the  horses  were  what  they'd  heard  3  &lt;  about,  and  she  explained  that  they'd  be-  é  come  a  thing  of  the  past.  She'd  sell  the  2  place  now,  she  said.  5  &quot;You'd  find  it  remote,  Emily,&quot;  Kath-  leen  said.  Her  lipstick  had  left  a  trace  on  the  rim  of  the  teacup  and  Norah  drew  her  attention  to  it  with  a  gesture.  Kath-  leen  wiped  it  off.  &quot;We're  town  people  ourselves,&quot;  she  said.  Emily  didn't  consider  the  house  she'd  lived  in  for  nearly  thirty  years  remote.  Five  minutes  in  the  car  and  you  were  in  the  middle  of  Carra.  Mangan's  [REDACTED],  in  the  other  direction,  was  no  more  than  a  minute.  &quot;You  get  used  to  a  place,&quot;  Emily  said.  They  identified  for  her  the  house  where  they  lived  themselves,  on  the  out-  skirts  of  Carra,  on  the  Athy  road.  Emily  knew  it,  a  pleasant  creeper-covered  house  with  silver  railings  in  front  of  it,  not  big  but  prosperous-looking.  She'd  thought  it  was  Corrigan's,  the  surveyor's.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  I  thought  that.&quot;  &quot;We  bought  it  from  Mr.  Corrigan,&quot;  Norah  said,  &quot;when  we  came  to  Carra  three  years  ago.&quot;  And  her  sister  said  they'd  been  living  in  Athy  before  that.  &quot;Carra  was  what  we  were  looking  for,&quot;  Norah  said.  They  were  endeavoring  to  lift  her  spirits,  Emily  realized,  by  keeping  things  light.  Carra  had  improved  in  their  time,  they  said,  and  it  would  again.  You  could  tell  with  a  town;  some  of  them  wouldn't  rise  out  of  the  doldrums  while  a  centu-  ry'd  go  by.  4  &quot;You'd  maybe  come  into  Carra  now?&quot;  Kathleen  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  I'll  do.&quot;  She  poured  more  tea.  She  handed  round  the  brack  again.  Dr.  Ann  had  given  her  pills  to  take,  but  she  didn't  in-  tend  to  take  them.  Exhausted  as  she  was,  she  didn't  want  to  sleep.  &quot;He  went  outa  week  ago,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  got  up  andwent  out  to  the  yard  with  only  a  coat  over  his  pajamas.  I  thought  it  was  thatthat  hurried  it  on,  but  seemingly  it  wasn't.&quot;  They  didn't  say  anything,  just  nodded,  both  of  them.  She  said  he  had  been  seven  months  dying.  He  hadn't  read  a  newspaper  all  that  time,  she  said.  In  the  end,  the  only  food  he  could  manage  was  corn-flour  gruel.  &quot;We  never  knew  your  husband,&quot;  Norah  said,  &quot;any  more  than  yourself.  Al-  though  I  think  we  maybe  met  him  on  the  road  one  day.&quot;  A  feeling  of  apprehension  began  in  Emily,  a  familiar  dread  that  compulsively  caused  one  hand  to  clench  the  other,  fin-  gers  tightly  locking.  People  often  met  him,  as  he  was  exercising  one  of  the  horses.  A  car  would  slow  down  for  him,  but  he  never  acknowledged  it,  never  so  much  as  raised  the  crop.  For  a  moment  she  forgot  that  he  was  dead.  &quot;He  was  often  out,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  this  was  long  ago.&quot;  &quot;He  sold  the  last  of  the  horses  twelve  months  ago.  He  didn't  want  them  left.&quot;  &quot;He  raced  his  horses,  we're  to  under-  stand?&quot;  Kathleen  said.  &quot;Point-to-points.  Punchestown  the  odd  time.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that's  great.&quot;  &quot;'There  wasn't  much  success.&quot;  &quot;It's  an  up-and-down  business,  of  course.&quot;  Disappointment  had  filled  the  house  when  yet  again  a  horse  had  failed,  when  T2  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  30,  2001  months  of  preparation  went  for  nothing.  There  had  never  been  much  reason  for  optimism,  but  even  soexpectation  had  been  high,  as  if  anything  less  would  have  brought  bad  luck.  When  Emily  mar-  ried,  her  husband  had  been  training  a  string  of  yearlings  on  the  Curragh.  Doing  well,  he'd  said  himself,  although  in  fact  he  wasn't.  &quot;You  never  had  children,  Emily?&quot;  Kathleen  asked.  &quot;No,  we  never  did.&quot;  &quot;I  think  we  heard  that  said.&quot;  The  house  had  been  left  to  her  by  an  aunt  on  her  mother's  side.  Forty-three  acres,  sheep  kept;  and  the  furniture  had  been  left  to  her,  too.  &quot;I  used  to  come  here  as  a  child.  A  Miss  Edgill  my  aunt  was.  Did  you  hear  of  her?&quot;  They  shook  their  heads.  Way  before  their  time,  Kathleen  said,  looking  around  her.  A  good  house,  she  said.  &quot;She'd  no  one  else  to  leave  it  to.&quot;  And  Emily  didn't  add  that  neither  the  prop-  erty  nor  the  land  would  ever  have  be-  come  hers  if  her  aunt  had  suspected  she'd  marry  the  man  she  had.  &quot;You'll  let  it  go,  though?&quot;  Kathleen  pursued  her  inquiries,  doing  her  best  to  knit  together  a  conversation.  'The  way  things  are  now,  you  were  saying  you'd  let  it  go?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Anyone  would  require  a  bit  of  time.&quot;  &quot;We  see  a  lot  of  widowing,&quot;  Norah  murmured.  &quot;Nearly  to  the  day,  we  were  married  twenty-three  years.&quot;  &quot;God  took  him  because  he  wanted  him,  Emily.&quot;  The  Geraghtys  continued  to  offer  sympathy,  one  following  the  other  in  what  was  said,  the  difference  in  tone  and  manner  continuing  also.  And  again-and  more  often  as  more  solace  was  pressed  upon  her-Emily  reflected  how  fortunate  it  was  that  they  had  es-  caped  the  awkwardness  of  attempting  to  keep  company  with  her  husband.  He  would  have  called  her  back  as  soon  as  she'd  left  them  with  him.  He  would  have  asked  her  who  they  were,  although  heknew;he  would  have  told  her  to  take  them  away.  He'd  never  minded  what  he  said-the  flow  of  coarse  language  when  someone  crossed  one  of  the  fields,  every  word  shouted  out,  frighteningly  sometimes.  It  was  always  that:  raising  his  voice,  the  expressions  he  used;  not  once,  not  ever,  had  there  been  violence.  Yet  often  she  had  wished  that  there  had  been,  believing  that  violence  would  have  been'veasier  to  bear  than  the  power  of  his  articulated  anger.  It  was  power  she  had  always  felt  coming  from  him,  festering  and  then  released,  his  denial  of  his  failure.  &quot;The  horses.  Punchestown.  The  world  of  the  racecourse,&quot;  Kathleen  said.  &quot;You've  had  an  interesting  life,  Emily.&quot;  It  seemed  to  Emily  that  Norah  was  about  to  shake  her  head,  that  for  the  first  time  the  sisters  were  on  the  verge  of  a  dis-  agreement.  It  didn't  surprise  her;  the  obser-  vationthat  had  been  made  astonished  her.  &quot;Unusual  is  what  my  sister  means.&quot;  Norah  nodded  her  correction  into  place,  her  tone  softening  the  contradiction.  &quot;There's  many  a  woman  doesn't  get  out  and  about,&quot;  Kathleen  said.  Emily  poured  more  tea  and  added  turf  to  the  fire.  She  had  forgotten  to  draw  the  curtains  over  and  she  did  so  now.  The  light  in  the  room  was  dim;  he'd  been  particular  about  low-wattage  electric  bulbs.  But  the  dimness  made  the  room  cozy  and  it  seemed  wrong  that  anywhere  should  seem  so  while  he  lay  only  a  few  hours  dead.  She  wondered  what  she'd  do  when  another  bulb  went,  either  here  or  somewhere  else,  if  she     would  replace  it  with  astronger  one  or  if  low-wattage  light  was  part  of  her  now.  She  wondered  if  her  nervousness  was  part  of  her,  too.  It  didn't  seem  that  it  had  always  been,  but  she  knew  she  could  be  wrong  about  that.  &quot;I  didn't  go  out  and  about  much,&quot;  she  said  because  a  silence  in  the  conversation  had  come.  Both  visitors  were  stirring  sugar  into  their  tea.  When  their  tea-  spoons  were  laid  down,  Norah  said,  There's  some  wouldn't  bother  with  that.&quot;  &quot;He  was  a  difficult  man.  People  would  have  told  you.&quot;  They  did  not  contradict  that.  They  did  not  say  anything.  She  said,  &quot;He  put  his  trust  in  the  horses.  Since  childhood,  what  he  wanted  was  to  win  races,  to  be  known  for  it.  But  he  never  managed  much.&quot;  &quot;Poor  man,&quot;  Kathleen  murmured.  &quot;Poor  man.&quot;  Emily  shouldn't  have  said  what  she  had,  she  hadn't  meant  to.  She  tried  to  say  that,  but  the  words  wouldn't  come.  She  looked  away  from  the  women  who  had  visited  her,  gazing  about  her  at  the  furni-  ture  of  a  room  she  knew  too  well.  He  had  been  angry  when  she'd  taken  the  curtains  down  to  wash  them;  everyone  staring  in,  he'd  said,  and  she  hadn't  known  what  he'd  meant.  Hardly  anyone  passed  by  on  the  road.  &quot;He  married  me  for  the  house,&quot;  she  said,  unable  to  prevent  herself  from  saying  that,  too.  The  women  were  strangers,  she  was  speaking  ill  of  the  dead.  She  shook  her  head  in  an  effort  to  deny  what  she'd  said,  but  that  seemed  to  be  a  dishonesty,  worse  than  speak-  ing  ill.  The  women  sipped  their  tea,  both  lifting  the  cups  to  their  lips  in  the  same  moment.  &quot;He  married  me  for  the  forty  acres,&quot;  Emily  said,  compelled  again  to  say  what  she  didn't  want  to.  &quot;I  was  a  Protestant  girl  that  got  passed  by  until  he  made  a  bid  for  me  and  I  thought  it  was  romantic,  like  he  did  himself-the  race  cards,  the  race  rib-  bons,  the  jockeys'  colors,  thebig  crowd  there'd  be.  That's  how  it  happened.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  now,  now,&quot;  Kathleen  said.  &quot;Ah,  now,  dear.&quot;  &quot;I  was  a  fool  and  you  pay  for  foolish  ness.  I  was  greedy  for  what  marriage  might  be,  and  you  pay  for  greed.  We'd  a  half  acre  left  after  what  was  paid  back  a  year  ago.  There's  a  mortgage  he  took  out  on  the  house.  I  could  have  said  to  him  all  the  time  he  was  dying,  'What'll  I  do&quot;  But  I  didn't,  and  he  didn't  sayanything,  either.  God  knows  what  his  last  thoughts  were,&quot;  Emily  said.  They  told  her  she  was  upset.  One  after  the  other,  they  told  her  any  widow  would  be,  that  it  was  what  you  had  to  ex-  pect.  Norah  said  it  twice.  Kathleen  said  shecould  call  on  them.  &quot;There's  no  grief  in  the  house  you've  come  to.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  now,  now,&quot;  Kathleen  said,  her  big  face  puckered  in  distress.  &quot;Ah,  now.&quot;  &quot;He  never  minded  how  the  truth  came  out,  whether  he'd  say  it  or  not.  He  didn't  say  I  was  aworthless  woman,  but  you'd  see  it  in  his  eyes.  Another  time,  I'd  sweep  the  stable  yard  and  he'd  say  what  use  was  that.  He'd  push  a  plate  of  food  away  untouched.  We  had  two  collies  once  and  they  were  company.  When  they  died,  he  saidhe'd  never  have  another  dog.  The  vet  wouldn't  come  near  us.  The  manwho  came  to  readthe  meter  turned  surly  under  the  abuse  he  got  for  driving  his  van  into  the  yard.&quot;  &quot;There's  good  and  bad  in  everyone,  Emily.&quot;  Norah  whispered  that  opinion  and,  still  whispering,  repeated  it.  &quot;Stay  where  you  are,  Emily,&quot;  Kathleen  said,  &quot;and  I'll  make  another  pot  of  tea.&quot;  She  stood  up,  the  teapot  already  in  her  hand.  She  was  used  to  making  tea  in  other  people's  kitchens.  She'd  find  her  way  about,  she  said.  Emily  protested,  but  even  while  she  didshe  didn't  care.  In  all  the  years  of  her  marriage,  another  woman  hadn't  made  tea  in  that  kitchen,  and  she  imagined  him  walking  in  from  the  yard  and  find-  ing  someone  other  than  herself  there.  The  time  she  began  to  paint  the  scullery,  it  frightened  her  when  he  stood  in  the  doorway,  before  he  even  said  a  thing.  The  time  she  dropped  the  sugar  bag  and  the  sugar  spilled  out  all  over  the  floor,  he  watched  her  sweeping  it  onto  the  dust-  pan,  turf  dust  going  with  it.  He  said  what  was  she  doing,  throwing  it  away  -  when  it  was  still  fit  to  stir  into  your  tea?  The  scullery  had  stayed  half  painted  to  this  day.  &quot;He  lived  in  a  strangeness  of  his  own,&quot;  Emily  said  to  the  sister  who  was  left  in  the  room  with  her.  &quot;Even  when  he  was  old,  he  believed  a  horse  could  still  reclaim  him.  Even  when  the  only  one  left  was  diseased  and  fit  for  noth-  ing.  When  there  was  none  there  at  all,  he  scoured  the  empty  stables  and  got  fresh  straw  in.  He  had  it  in  mind  to  begin  all  over  again,  to  find  some  ani-  mal  going  cheap.  He  never  said  it,  but  it  was  what  he  had  in  mind.&quot;  The  house  wasn't  clean.  It  hadn't  been  clean  for  years.  She'd  lost  heart  in  the  house,  and  in  herself,  in  the  radio  that  didn't  work,  her  bicycle  with  the  tires  punctured.  These  visitors  would  have  noticed  that  the  summer  flies  weren't  swept  up,  that  nowhere  was  dusted.  &quot;Three  spoons  andone  for  the  pot,&quot;  Kathleen  said,  setting  the  teapot  down  in  the  hearth.  &quot;Is  that  about  right,  Emily?  Will  we  let  it  draw  a  minute?&quot;  Kathleen  had  cut  more  slices  of  cur-  rant  loaf,  finding  it  on  the  breadboard,  the  bread  saw  beside  it,  the  butter  there,  too.  She  hoped  it  wasn't  a  presumption,  she  hoped  it  wasn't  interference,  she  said,  but  all  that  remained  unanswered.  &quot;He'd  sit  there  looking  at  me,&quot;  Emily  said.  &quot;His  eyes  would  follow  me  about  the  kitchen.  There  was  a  beetle  got  on  the  table  once  and  he  didn't  move.  It  got  into  the  flour  and  he  didn't  reach  out  for  it.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  it  a  wonder,&quot;  Norah  said,  &quot;you  wouldn't  have  gone  off,  the  way  things  were,  Emily?  Not  that  I'm  saying  you  should  have.&quot;  Emily  was  aware  that  the  question  was  asked.  She  didn't  answer  it;  she  didn't  know  why  she  hadn't  gone  off.  Looking  back  on  it,  she  didn't.  But  she  remembered  how  when  she  had  thought  of  going  away  what  her  arguments  to  herself  had  been,  how  she  had  wondered  where  she  could  go  to,  and  had  told  herself  it  would  be  wrong  to  leave  a  house  that  had  been  left  to  her  in  good  faith  and  with  affection.  And  then,  of  course,  there  was  the  worry  about  how  he'd  manage.  &quot;Will  you  take  another  cup,  Emily?&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  The  wind  had  become  stronger.  She  could  hear  it  rat-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  30,  2001  73  tling  the  doors  upstairs.  She'd  left  a  light  burning  in  the  room.  &quot;I'm  wrong  to  delayyou,&quot;  she  said.  But  the  Geraghtys  had  settled  down  again,  with  the  fresh  tea  to  sustain  them.  She  wasn't  delaying  them  in  any  way  whatsoever,  Kathleen  said.  In  the  shad-  owy  illumination  of  the  singleforty-  watt  bulb,  the  alarm  clock  on  the  man-  telpiece  gave  the  time  as  twenty  past  eleven,  although  in  fact  it  was  half  an  hour  later.  &quot;It's  just  I'm  tired,&quot;  Emily  said.  &quot;A  time  like  this,I  didn't  mean  to  go  on  about  what's  done  with.&quot;  Kathleen  said  it  was  the  shock.  The  shock  of  death  changed  everything,  she  said;  no  matter  how  certainly  death  was  expected,  it  was  always  a  shock.  &quot;I  wouldn't  want  you  to  think  I  didn't  love  my  husband.&quot;  The  sisters  were  taken  aback,  Kath-  leen  on  her  knees  adding  turf  to  the  fire,  Norah  pouring  milk  into  her  tea.  How  could  these  two  unmarried  women  un-  derstand?  Emily  thought.  How  could  they  understand  that  even  if  there  was  neither  grief  nor  mourning  there  had  been  some  love  left  for  the  man  who'd  died?  Her  fault,  her  foolishness  from  the  first  it  had  been;  no  one  had  made  her  do  anything.  The  talk  went  on,  back  and  forth  be-  tween  the  widow  and  the  sisters,  words  and  commiseration,  solace  and  reassur-  ance.  The  past  came  into  it  when  more  of)  was  said:  the  wedding,  his  polished  shoes  and  shiny  hair,  the  party  afterward  over  on  the  Curragh,  at  Jockey  Hall,  because  he  knew  the  man  there.  People  were  spoken  of,  names  known  to  the  Ger-  aghtys,  or  people  before  their  time;  occa-  sions  were  spoken  of-the  year  he  went  to  Cheltenham,  the  shooting  of  theold  gray  when  her  leg  went  at  Glanbyre  point-to-point.  The  Geraghtys  spoke  of  their  growing  up  in  Galway,  how  you  wouldn't  recognize  the  City  of  the  Tribes  these  days,  so  fashionable  and  lively  it  had  become;  how  later  they  had  lived  near  Enniscorthy;  how  Kathleen  had  felt  the  draw  of  the  religious  life  at  that  time  but  then  had  felt  the  receding  of  it,  how  she  had  known  ever  since  that  she'd  been  tested  with  her  own  mistake.  In  this  way,  the  Geraghtys  spread  them-  selves  into  the  conversation.  As  the  night  went  on,  Emily  was  aware  that  they  were  doing  so  because  it  was  necessary,  on  a  bleak  occasion,  to  influence  the  bleak-  nessin  otherways.  She  apologized  for  speaking  ill  of  the  dead,  andblamed  her-  self  again.  It  was  half  past  three  before  the  Geraghtys  left.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  she  said,  holding  open  the  hall  door.  The  wind  that  had  been  slight  and  then  had  got  up  wasn't  there  anymore.  The  air  was  fresh  and  clean.  She  saidshe'd  be  all  right.  Light  flickered  in  the  car  when  the  women  opened  the  doors.  There  was  the  red  glow  of  the  tail-light  before  the  engine  started  up,  a  whiff  of  exhaust  before  the  car  moved  slowly  forward  and  gath-  ered  speed.  In  the  room  upstairs,  the  sheet  drawn  up  over  the  raddled,  stiffening  features,  Emily  prayed.  She  knelt  by  the  bedside  and  pleaded  for  the  deliverance  of  the  husband  who  had  wronged  her  for  so  long.  Fear  had  drained  to  a  husk  the  love  she  had  spoken  of,  but  she  did  not  deny  that  remnant's  existence,  as  she  had  not  in  the  company  of  her  visitors.  She  could  not  grieve,  she  could  not  mourn;  too  little  was  left,  too  much  destroyed.  Would  they  know  that  as  they  drove  away?  Would  they  explain  it  to  people  when  people  asked?  Downstairs,  she  washed  up  the  cups  and  saucers.  She  would  not  sleep.  She  would  not  go  to  bed.  The  hours  would  pass  and  then  the  undertaker's  man  would  come.  he  headlights  illuminated  low  stone  walls,  ragwort  thriving  on  the  verges,  gorse  among  the  motionless  sheep  in  gated  fields.  Kathleen  drove,  as  she  al-  ways  did,  Norah  never  having  learned.  A  visit  had  not  before  turned  out  so  strangely,  so  different  from  what  had  been  the  sisters'  familiar  expectation.  They  said  all  that,  and  then  were  silent  for  awhile  before  Kathleen  made  her  final  comment:  that  what  they  had  heard  had  been  all  the  more  terrible  to  listen  to  with  a  man  dead  in  an  upstairs  room.  Hunched  in  the  dark  of  the  car,  Norah  frowned  over  that.  She  did  not  speak  immediately,  but  when  they'd  gone  another  mile  she  said,  &quot;I'd  say,  myself,  it  was  the  dead  we  were  sitting  with.&quot;  n  thehouse,  the  silence  there  had  been  before  the  visitors  disturbed  it  was  there  again.  No  spectre  rose  from  the  carnal  re-  mains  of  the  manwho  was  at  last  at  peace.  But  the  woman  sitting  by  the  turf  fire  she  kept  going  was  aware,  as  dawn  light-  ened  the  edges  of  the  curtains,  of  a  stir-  ring  in  her  senses.  Her  tiredness  afflicted  her  less,  a  calm  possessed  her.  In  the  ne-  glected  room,  she  regretted  nothing  now  of  what  she  had  said  to  the  women  who  had  meant  well;  nor  did  it  matter  if,  here  and  there,  they  had  not  quite  understood.  She  sat  for  a  while  longer,  then  pulled  the  curtains  back  and  the  day  came  in.  Hers  was  the  ghost  the  night  had  brought,  in  her  own  image  as  she  once  had  been.