GIRL WITH LIZARD
By Bernhard Schlink

It was a painting of a girl with a lizard. They were looking at each other and not looking at each other, the girl gazing dreamily toward the lizard, the lizard directing its vacant, glistening eyes toward the girl. Because the girl’s thoughts were somewhere else, she was holding so still that even the lizard sat motionless on the moss-grown rock, on which the girl lay half leaning, half stretched out on her stomach. The lizard’s head was lifted; its tongue stuck out.
“That Jewish girl,” the boy’s mother said whenever she spoke of the girl in the painting. When his parents argued and his father got up to retreat to his study, where the painting was hung, she would call after him, “Go pay your Jewish girl a visit!” Or she would ask, “Does the painting of that Jewish girl have to hang there? Does the boy have to sleep under the painting of that Jewish girl?” The painting hung above a couch where the boy napped at noontime while his father read the paper.
More than once, he had heard his father explain to his mother that the girl was not Jewish. That the red velvet cap she wore, pressed so firmly down into her brown curls that they almost hid it, wasn’t meant to suggest her religion, wasn’t a folk costume but a matter of fashion. “It’s what girls wore back then. Besides, it’s the Jewish men who wear caps, not the women.”
The girl wore a dark-red skirt, and over her bright-yellow blouse was a dark-yellow vest, a kind of bodice loosely laced with ribbons at the back. The rock on which the girl rested her chin and her plump, childish arms hid much of her clothes and body. She might have been eight years old. The face was a child’s face. But the eyes, the full lips, and the hair, which curled against the brow and fell to cover her back and shoulders, were those not of a child but of a woman. The shadow that her hair cast over cheek and temple was a secret, and the darkness of the puffed sleeve into which the bare upper arm vanished a temptation. Behind the rock and a sliver of beach, the sea stretched away to the horizon and surged into the foreground on rolling breakers; sunlight piercing the dark clouds left its lustre on a patch of glistening sea and on the girl’s face and arms. Nature breathed passion.
Or was this ironic? The passion, the temptation, the secret, and the woman in the child? Was it the ambiguity in the painting that not only fascinated the boy but also confused him? He was often confused. He was confused when his parents argued, when his mother asked her sarcastic questions, and when his father smoked a cigar and read his paper, trying to look relaxed and superior, although the air in his study was so charged that the boy scarcely dared move or even breathe. And his mother’s mocking words about the Jewish girl were confusing. The boy had no idea what a Jewish girl was.
From one day to the next, his mother stopped talking about the Jewish girl and his father put an end to the obligatory naps in the study. For a while, the boy had to nap in the same room and bed where he slept at night. Then there were no more naps at all. He was glad. He was nine and had been made to nap at noontime longer than any of his classmates or playmates.
But he missed the girl with the lizard. He would steal into his father’s study to have a look at the painting and talk with the girl for a moment. He grew fast that year; at first his eyes were level with the gold frame, then with the rock, and later with the girl’s eyes.
He was a strong boy, sturdily built, with large-boned limbs. As he shot up, there was nothing touching about his awkwardness; instead, it was somehow threatening. His schoolmates were afraid of him, even when he was on their side in games, arguments, and fights. He was an outsider. He knew that himself, although he did not know that it was his appearance, his height, broad shoulders, and strength, that made him one. He thought it was the world inside him, with which he coexisted and in which he lived. None of his schoolmates shared it with him. But, then, he did not invite any of them in. Had he been a delicate child, he might have found playmates, soul mates, among other delicate children. But they, especially, were intimidated by him.
His inner world was populated not only with figures from his reading and from pictures and films but also with people from the outside world, though in ever-changing disguises. He could tell when there was a discrepancy between what seemed to be going on in the external world and whatever lay behind it. That his piano teacher was holding something back, that the friendliness of the beloved family doctor was not genuine, that a neighbor boy with whom he played was hiding something—he felt it long before the disclosure of the boy’s petty thefts, of the doctor’s fondness for little boys, or of the piano teacher’s illness. To be sure, he was no more acute than others, or quicker to intuit exactly what it was that was not evident. Nor did he investigate it. He preferred making things up, and his inventions were always more colorful and exciting than reality.
The distance between his inner and outer worlds corresponded to the distance that the boy noticed between his family and other people. Certainly, his father, a judge of the municipal court, lived life to the full. The boy was aware that his father enjoyed the importance and visibility of his position, liked joining the regular table reserved for prominent citizens in the local restaurant, liked playing a role in local politics and being elected to the presbytery of his congregation. His parents took part in the town’s social life. They attended the carnival ball and the summer gala, were invited out, and asked guests to dine at their home. The boy’s birthdays were celebrated in proper style, with five guests at his fifth birthday, six at his sixth, and so forth. Indeed, everything was done in proper style, which meant with the obligatory formality and distance of the nineteen-fifties. It was not this formality or distance that the boy perceived as the distance between his family and other people, but something else. It had to do with the way his parents themselves seemed to be holding back, hiding something. They were on their guard. If someone told a joke, they did not immediately burst out laughing but waited until others laughed. At a concert or a play, they applauded only after others had applauded first. In conversations with guests, they kept their own opinions to themselves until others had expressed the same thing and they could then second it. If sometimes his father could not avoid taking a position or expressing an opinion, the strain of it showed.

Or was his father merely being tactful, trying not to interfere or seem obtrusive? The boy asked himself that question as he grew older and began more consciously to observe his parents’ caution. He also asked himself why it was that his parents insisted on their own space. He was not allowed to enter his parents’ bedroom, had not been even as a small child. Granted, they did not lock their door. But the prohibition was absolutely clear, and their authority remained unchallenged—that is, until the boy was thirteen and, one day when his parents were out, he opened the door and saw two separate beds, two nightstands, two chairs, and two wardrobes, one wooden and one metal. Were his parents trying to hide the fact that they did not share a bed? Did they want to inculcate in him the meaning of privacy and a respect for it? After all, they never entered his room, either, without first knocking and waiting for him to invite them in.
The boy was not forbidden to enter his father’s study, even though it contained a mystery, the painting of the girl with the lizard.
But, when he was in the eighth grade, a teacher assigned as homework the description of a picture. The choice of pictures was left to the students. “Do I have to bring the picture I describe with me?” one student asked. The teacher waved the question aside. “Your description should be so good that just by reading it we can see the picture.” It was obvious to the boy that he would describe the painting of the girl with the lizard. He was looking forward to it, to examining the painting in detail, to translating the painting into words and sentences, to reading his description of the painting to his teacher and classmates. He was also looking forward to sitting in his father’s study. It looked out on a narrow courtyard that muted the daylight and sounds from the street. Its walls were lined with bookcases, and the spicy, acrid odor of cigar smoke hung in the air.
His father hadn’t come home for lunch; his mother had left for town immediately afterward. So the boy asked no one for permission but sat down in his father’s study, looked, and wrote. “The painting shows the sea, in front of it a beach, in front of that a rock or a dune, and on it a girl and a lizard.” No, the teacher had said the description of a painting moves from the foreground to the middle distance to the background. “In the foreground of the painting are a girl and a lizard on a rock or a dune, in the middle distance is a beach, and from the middle distance to the background is the sea.” Is the sea? Rolls the sea? But the sea didn’t roll from the middle distance to the background, it rolled from the background toward the middle distance. Besides, middle distance sounded ugly, and foreground and background didn’t sound much better. And the girl—was her being in the foreground everything there was to say about her?
The boy started over. “The painting shows a girl. She is looking at a lizard.” But that still wasn’t everything there was to say about the girl. The boy went on. “The girl has a pale face and pale arms, brown hair, and is dressed in a brightcolored top and a dark skirt.” That didn’t satisfy him, either. He gave it another try. “In this painting a girl is looking at a lizard sunning itself.” Was that true? Was the girl looking at the lizard? Wasn’t she looking past it, through it, instead? The boy hesitated. But suddenly it made no difference. Because the next sentence followed from the first. “The girl is very beautiful.” That sentence was true, and with it the description likewise began to ring true.
“The painting shows a girl looking at a lizard sunning itself. The girl is very beautiful. She has a delicate face with a smooth brow, straight nose, and a dimple above her upper lip. She has brown eyes and brown, curly hair. The painting is really only of the girl’s head. All the rest, comprising the lizard, the rock or dune, the beach, and the sea, is not so important.”
The boy was satisfied. Now all he had to do was to place everything in the foreground, middle distance, and background. He was proud of “comprising.” It sounded elegant and adult. He was proud of the girl’s beauty.
When he heard his father closing the front door, he stayed seated. He heard him put down his briefcase, remove and hang up his coat, look first in the kitchen and living room, and then knock on his bedroom door.
“I’m in here,” he called, squaring the scribbled pages on top of his notebook and laying his fountain pen beside it. That was how his father kept files, papers, and pens on the desk. When the door opened, he immediately started to explain. “I’m sitting here because we’ve been assigned the description of a picture, and I’m describing this painting here.”
It took his father a moment to reply. “What painting? What are you doing?”
The boy explained again. From the way his father was standing there, scowling as he looked at him and the painting, he knew that he had done something wrong. “Since you weren’t here, I thought . . .”
“You thought—” his father said in a choked voice, and the boy thought the voice threatened to become a yell, and flinched. But his father did not yell. He shook his head and sat down on the swivel chair between the desk and a table that he used for stacking files. The boy was sitting on the other side. The painting hung beside the desk, behind his father. The boy hadn’t dared to sit at the desk. “Would you like to read me what you’ve written?”
The boy read it aloud, both proud and anxious.
“It’s very well written, my boy. I could see every detail of the painting. But . . .” he hesitated. “It’s not for other people. You should describe a different picture for them.”
The boy was so happy that his father hadn’t yelled at him, but had instead spoken to him in confidence and with affection, that he was willing to do anything. But he did not understand. “Why isn’t the painting something for other people?”
“Don’t you keep things just to yourself sometimes? Do you want us or your friends to be part of everything you do? If only because people are envious, it’s best not to show them your treasures. Either it makes them sad because they don’t have them, or they turn greedy and want to take them away from you.”
“Is this painting a treasure?”
“You know that yourself. You just described it beautifully, as only a beautiful treasure is described.”
“I mean is it so valuable that it would make people envious?”
His father turned around and looked at the painting. “Yes, it’s worth a great deal, and I don’t know if I could protect it if people wanted to steal it. Wouldn’t it be better if they didn’t even know we have it?”

The boy nodded.
“Come, let’s look at a book of paintings together. We’re sure to find one you like.”
When the boy turned fourteen, his father resigned from the bench and took a job with an insurance company. He didn’t want to do it—the boy could tell that, although his father didn’t complain. But neither did his father explain why he had changed jobs. The boy didn’t find that out until years later. One result of the change was that they had to give up their old apartment for a new one. Instead of occupying the fashionable second floor of a four-story turnof-the-century town house, they now lived on the edge of town in a twentyfour-unit apartment house, built with subsidies from a government program, according to its norms. The four rooms were small, the ceilings low, and the sounds and smells of neighbors ever present. But at least there were four rooms; in addition to a living room and two bedrooms, there was a study for his father. Come evening, he would retreat to it, even though he no longer brought files home from work.
“You can drink in the living room just as well,” the boy heard his mother say to his father one evening, “and maybe you’d drink less if you exchanged a word with me sometimes.”
His parents’ way of life changed, too. There were no more dinners and evening parties for ladies and gentlemen, when the boy would open the door for guests and take their coats. He missed the atmosphere of the dining room, the table set with white china and adorned with silver candelabra, his parents putting out glasses, pastries, cigars, and ashtrays in the living room, awaiting the first ring of the doorbell. He missed several of his parents’ friends. Some would ask how he was doing in school and what interests he had, and on their next visit they’d remember his answers and keep track. A surgeon had discussed operations on Teddy bears with him, and a geologist had talked about volcano eruptions, earthquakes, and shifting sand dunes. He especially missed one woman friend of his parents’. Unlike his slender, nervous, volatile mother, she was a plump woman of sunny temperament. In the winter, when he was still small, she would sweep him in under her fur coat, into the shimmering caress of its silk lining and the overwhelming scent of her perfume. Later, she had teased him about conquests he had not made, about girlfriends he did not have, leaving him both embarrassed and proud. And even in later years, when she sometimes made a game of pulling him to her and wrapping them both in her fur coat, he had enjoyed the softness of her body.
It was a long time before new guests came. These were neighbors, colleagues of his father from the insurance company, and colleagues of his mother, who was now working as a police-department secretary. The boy noticed that his parents seemed uncertain; they wanted to find their way into their new world without denying the old, and acted either too cool or too intimate.
The boy had to adjust as well. His parents had him transferred from his high school, just a few steps from their old home, to one that was not very far from their new apartment. And so his way of life changed, too. The tone of his new school was coarser, and he was less of an outsider than he had been in the old one. For another year, he continued taking piano lessons from the teacher who lived near his former home. Then his parents said he was making wretched progress, and they ended the lessons and sold the piano. The bike rides to his piano teacher’s had been precious to him, for he would pass his old apartment and a neighboring building where there was a girl he used to walk partway to school and play with now and then. She had thick, red, curly hair down to her shoulders, and a face full of freckles. He rode slowly past her building, hoping she would step outside and say hello, and then he would walk his bike alongside her, and they would, of course, end up seeing each other again. They wouldn’t exactly make a date, but it would be clear when he would find her where. She was far too young for a real date.
But she never came out of the building when he rode by.
It is a mistake to believe that people make decisions about their lives only once they are, or have, grown up. Children take actions and adopt attitudes with the same decisiveness as adults. They don’t stay with their decisions forever, but adults cast aside decisions about their lives, too.
A year later, the boy decided to be somebody in his new school and circumstances. He was strong enough to have no trouble earning respect, and since he was also clever and inventive, he soon became part of a hierarchy, which in his class, as in every school class, was defined by an amorphous mixture of strength, impudence, wit, and parental affluence. These things counted with the girls, too—not in his own school, which had no girls, but in the girls’ high school a couple of blocks away.
The boy did not fall in love. He picked out a girl who was popular and provocatively attractive, quick with a smart remark, and who allowed herself to be known as having had experience with boys but also was hard to get. He impressed her with his strength, with the respect he was shown—and the fact that there was something more. She didn’t know what this “more” was, but there was something she hadn’t found in other boys, and this she wanted to see and to have. He noticed, and would occasionally drop a hint that he had treasures he didn’t show to just anyone, but that he might show to her if . . . if she would go steady with him? Neck with him? Sleep with him? He didn’t exactly know himself. His public pursuit of her, to which she yielded increasingly, was more interesting, brought him greater rewards and prestige, than what actually happened between them. Sauntering with friends past the girls’ high school, where she and her group would sometimes be leaning against the iron gate after classes, and where he would casually put his arm around her, or if her team was playing handball waving to her and getting a kiss blown in return, or crossing the grass on the way to the swimming pool with her, admired and envied—that was the thing.
When they finally did sleep together, it was a disaster. She was experienced enough to have certain expectations, but not enough to deal with his clumsiness. He lacked the assurance that comes with love and makes up for the awkwardness of the first time. Once the swimming pool had closed and the guard had made his rounds, and they were together behind the bushes near the fence, it suddenly seemed all wrong to him—the kisses, the tenderness, the desire. Nothing was right. It was a betrayal of everything he loved and had loved. He thought of his mother, of her friend in the fur coat, of the neighbor girl with the red curls and freckles, and of the girl with the lizard. When it was all over—the embarrassment of dealing with the condom, his orgasm, which had happened far too fast, his inept and merely irritating attempts to satisfy her with his hand—he cuddled up to her, seeking consolation for his own failure. She stood up, dressed, and left. He lay there in a huddle, staring at the trunk of the bush he was lying under, at last year’s leaves, at his underwear and the mesh of the fence. It turned dark. He went on lying there, even though he was cold now, as if he could somehow shiver away his being with her, pursuing her, struggling conceitedly to win her these past few months, the way you sweat out an illness. Finally, he got up and swam a few laps in the main pool.

When he came home, around midnight, the door to the lighted study was open. His father was lying on the couch, snoring and reeking of alcohol. A bookcase had been overturned, and the drawers of the desk were open and empty, the floor was strewn with books and papers. The boy made sure the painting hadn’t been damaged, turned out the light, and closed the door.
When school was almost over and he was just waiting for diplomas to be handed out, he took a trip to the nearest large city. It was an hour and a half by train, a trip he could have taken at any time all those years for a concert, a play, an art exhibition, but never had. When he was small, his parents had once taken him and shown him the churches, the town hall, the courthouse, and the large park in the center of the city. After their move, his parents did not travel anymore, whether with or without him, and at first it had never occurred to him to travel alone. Later, he couldn’t afford it. His father lost his job because of his drinking, and the boy had to work as well as go to school, handing over any money he earned. Now that he was graduating and would soon leave town, he was beginning to separate from his parents. And he now wanted to spend what he earned.
He wasn’t looking for the museum of modern art but found it by chance. He went in, because the building fascinated him with its strange mixture of modern simplicity on the one hand and inhospitable, cavelike gloominess on the other, while the doors and oriels were playfully kitschy. The collection ranged from the Impressionists to the New Savages, and he looked at it all with proper attentiveness but little sympathy. Until he happened on the painting by René Dalmann.
“At the Beach” was the title, and it showed a rock, a sandy beach, and the sea. A girl, naked and beautiful, was doing a handstand on the rock, but one of her legs was made of wood—not a wooden leg but a female leg of perfectly grained wood. No, he did not recognize the girl doing the handstand as the girl with the lizard, nor could he say that it was the same rock, the same beach, the same sea. But it all reminded him so powerfully of the painting at home that he bought a postcard as he left and, had he had more money, he would have bought a book on René Dalmann. The differences between painting and postcard were obvious when he compared the two at home. And yet there was something that linked them—was it merely in the eye of the beholder or was it in the paintings themselves?
“What have you got there?” His father entered the room and reached for the postcard.
The boy stepped aside and let his father grab at thin air. “Who painted our painting?”
His father’s gaze turned cautious. He’d been drinking, and it was the same caution with which he reacted to the rejection and open disdain his wife and son showed him whenever he was sloshed. They had long ago lost any fear of him. “I don’t know—why?”
“Why haven’t we sold the painting if it’s so valuable?”
“Sold? We can’t sell the painting!” His father took up a position in front of the painting as if to protect it from his son.
“Why can’t we?”
“Then we wouldn’t have anything. And you’d get nothing when I’m gone. It’s for you that we’re keeping the painting, for you.” Delighted by an argument that would surely persuade his son, his father repeated it, then said it yet again. “Mother and I are turning ourselves inside out to be sure you’ll get the painting someday. And what do I get in return? Ingratitude, nothing but ingratitude.”
The boy left his whining father standing there and forgot the whole incident, the picture in the museum, and René Dalmann. Besides working in the warehouse of a tractor factory, the boy moonlighted as a waiter until the beginning of the semester, and then left to study as far from home as possible. The city on the Baltic was ugly and its university mediocre. But nothing there reminded him of his home town in the south. In his first weeks, he realized, much to his relief, that he recognized no one in his law courses, or the cafeteria, or the halls. He could start all over again.
He had made one stop on his way there. He had only a few hours to walk through the city by the river. Again, it was purely by chance that he found the museum. But, once inside, chance was not enough, and he asked right away for pictures by René Dalmann, and found two of them. “Order Restored After War” was five by six and a half feet high and showed a woman sitting on the ground, head bent forward, legs drawn up, propping herself on her left arm. With her right hand she was pushing a drawer back into her abdomen; her breasts and belly were drawers as well, with nipples as knobs for the former and her navel as the pull for the latter. The drawers at her breasts and stomach were slightly open, and empty, but beneath them, in the abdomen drawer, lay a dead soldier, twisted and mutilated. The other painting was entitled “Self-Portrait as Woman” and showed the bust of a smiling young man with a shaved head; the outline of breasts was visible beneath his buttoned-up black jacket, and in his left hand he held up a curly blond wig.
This time he bought a book on René Dalmann, and on the train he read about the childhood and youth of the artist, who was born in [REDACTED] in 1894. Both the father, a textile merchant who had left Leipzig for [REDACTED], and his Alsatian wife, twenty years his junior, had wanted a daughter; they already had two sons, and a third child, a daughter, had died, two years previously, after her father had taken her for a winter ride and she had come down with pneumonia. René grew up in the shadow of his dead sister, until, in 1902, the second daughter, so longed for, arrived—a liberation and a humiliation in one. He started drawing and painting early on, could not keep up in school, but at age sixteen applied successfully for the art academy in Karlsruhe.
Then the trip was over. The boy found a room, a garret with a coal stove and a little window; the toilet with a tiny sink was half a flight of stairs down. But he was on his own. He moved his things in and put the book on René Dalmann on a bottom shelf along with other favorites. The top shelves were to be for new books, for his new life. He had left nothing he cared about at home.
His father died during the boy’s third year at the university. As was increasingly his father’s habit in the last few years, he had gone to drink at a bar. He tripped on his way home, fell down an embankment, and froze to death lying there. The funeral was the boy’s first visit home since he had left for the university. It was January, the wind piercing cold, the puddles on the path to the cemetery chapel frozen, and, after having slipped and almost fallen, his mother accepted his arm, which she had previously refused to do. She didn’t want to forgive him for not having visited for so long.

At home, she had made tea and little sandwiches for the few neighbors who had joined them at the cemetery. When she realized that the guests were expecting alcohol to be served, she stood up. “Anyone who’s offended because I’m not offering beer or schnapps can leave right now. There’s been enough drinking in this house.”
That evening, mother and son entered the study. “I think they’re all law books. Do you want them? Can you use them? What you don’t take I’ll throw out.” She left him alone. He examined the library his father had made such a to-do about— books in obsolete editions, periodicals discontinued years before. The only picture was the girl with the lizard. In the old apartment it had had the entire wall above the couch to itself, but here it was hung between two bookcases—and still it dominated the room. His head almost brushed the low ceiling, so that he looked down at the girl now, but he remembered how they had once stood eye to eye. He thought of Christmas trees, how they used to be so tall and were so small now. But then he thought of how the painting had not grown smaller, had lost none of its power to enthrall him. And he thought of the little girl in the house where he had his garret, and blushed. He called her Princess, and they flirted with each other, and when she asked him if he wouldn’t like to show her his room, he had summoned all his will power and said no. She had asked in all innocence. But, because she wanted something he didn’t want to give, she flirted with him so openly, and her voice and glances and body language were so seductive that he all but forgot the innocence.
“I don’t want Father’s books. But I’ll call a used-book dealer tomorrow. He’ll give you several hundred or a thousand marks.” He sat down at the kitchen table with his mother. “What do you plan to do with the painting?”
She folded up the newspaper she’d been reading. Her gestures were still nervous and volatile, with something yet youthful about them. She was no longer slender but gaunt, the skin stretched tight over the bones of her face and hands. Her hair was almost white.
He was suddenly filled with sympathy and tenderness. “What do you intend to do?” he asked gently, and tried to lay his hand on hers, but she drew it away.
“I’m moving out. They’ve built a couple of terraced houses on the slope, and I bought myself a studio there. I don’t need more than one room.”
“Bought?”
She cast him a hostile look. “I always pooled your father’s pension and my earnings, and took out the same amount for myself that he drank up. Do you have any objection?”
“No.” He laughed. “Father drank up a studio apartment in just ten years?”
His mother laughed with him. “Not quite. But more than the down payment I saved up.”
He hesitated. “Why did you stay with Father?”
“What a question.” She shook her head. “For a while you have a choice. Do you want to do this or that, live with this person or that? But one day what it is you’re doing and that person you live with have become your life, and to ask why you stick with your life is to ask a rather stupid question. But you asked about the painting. I don’t plan to do anything with it. Take it with you or put it in the bank, if they have lockboxes big enough.”
“Tell me, what’s the story with the painting?”
“Oh, my boy . . .” She looked at him sadly. “I’d rather not. I think your father was proud of the painting, to the end.” She gave him a weary smile. “He would so much have liked to visit you and see how you were doing with your law studies, but he didn’t dare. You never invited us. You know, you children are no less cruel than we parents were. You’re more self-righteous, that’s all.”
He wanted to protest, but did not know if she was right. “I’m sorry,” he said, dodging the issue.
She stood up. “Sleep tight, my boy. I’ll be out of the house by seven. Sleep as long as you want before you leave, but don’t forget the painting.”
He hung the picture over his bed in the garret. The bed stood against the left wall; on the right were his wardrobe and bookcase, and at the front, under the dormer, his desk.
“I look a lot like her. Who is she?” The girl who asked was a student he had taken a liking to in his first semester. Because of her resemblance to the girl in the painting? He hadn’t been aware of it.
“I don’t know who she is. Or whether she’s anybody, really.” He wanted to add, “But in any case you’re more beautiful.” But, then, he didn’t want to be unfaithful to the girl with the lizard. Can you be unfaithful to a girl in a painting?
“What do you think?”
“That you’re beautiful.”
She was very beautiful. He was lying on his back on the bed, she was lying on top of him, her arms across his chest and her chin propped on her arms as she gazed calmly into his eyes. Or was she looking past him, through him? Her dark eyes and hair, her high brow, the fresh blush on her cheeks, the curve of her nostrils and lips—she was, in all her beauty, attuned to him and yet peculiarly caught up in herself. Or was he just imagining this? Would the woman he loved, just because he loved her, become the painting? Attuned to him and yet unattainable at the same time?
“Who’s the painter?”
“I don’t know.”
“He must have signed his painting.” She sat up and closely examined the painting, then she looked at him.
“Do you know what it’s worth?”
“No.”
“Maybe it’s valuable. Where did you get it?”
He thought of the conversation he’d had with his father years before. “Come here.” He spread his arms. “I don’t want to know if it’s valuable. If I knew it was and told you so, then you’d know it, and I’d have to keep asking myself if you love me because of my painting.”
She fell into his arms. “Don’t be silly. If it’s valuable, you can’t keep it here. It’s too hot in the summer and too cold in the winter, and besides, your stupid stove will set the roof and the whole house on fire someday, and maybe you’ll be able to escape to the roof next door but the painting will burn up. A valuable painting needs the same constant temperature and humidity and who knows what else. And since you can’t keep it here, you might as well sell it. You work and work and never buy anything for yourself, because you don’t have any money. That doesn’t make any sense.”
To divert her, he told her about his new job. But as she was leaving she asked, “You know what?”

“What?”
“My brother is studying art history. He ought to have a look at the painting.”
He didn’t let it come to that. Before her next visit, he shoved the painting under the bed and told her that his mother had wanted it back. But she still had a talk with her brother, who could think of no similar painting or painter who fit her description of it but did make a connection to the magazine Lézard Violet, ten issues of which had been published in [REDACTED], between 1924 and 1930, during the transition from Dadaism to Surrealism. Then she forgot about the painting.
Whenever she left, he would hang it over his bed again. At first it was a game; he took the painting down with a smile and hung it back up with a smile, saying goodbye to the girl and greeting her with some passing joke. Then he got tired of taking the painting down because the other girl was coming, then of her coming at all. After they had made love and were lying side by side again, he would wait for her to leave, so that he could rehang the picture and take up life where he had left off.
Finally she left him. “I don’t know what goes on in your head or your heart.” She tapped his forehead, then his chest. “There’s probably room in there for me somewhere. But it’s too small.”
It hurt more than he had expected. He felt angry at times—perhaps everything would have turned out differently and better without the painting. But his anger also bound him to the painting. He talked to the girl. How he’d be better off without her. What a mess she’d got him into. It wouldn’t hurt her to look at him with a friendlier eye now. And was she proud of having successfully driven her rival from the field? She had no reason to brag.
One evening, he picked up the book on René Dalmann and read some more. After completing work at the academy, the young artist lived in the house of a rich widow from Karlsruhe who set up a studio for him. In so proper a provincial capital, that meant a scandal, which, according to his biographer, they both enjoyed more than they did their troubled relationship. Dalmann tried to establish himself as a portrait painter, and his first portraits were conventional enough, until, accused of leading a scandalous life, he began to paint scandalous portraits—the chief justice of the Karlsruhe High Court with his bureaucrat’s skull carved out of wood, and the man’s son, a dashing lieutenant, with epaulettes, shoulder braid, and a sabre in the middle of his face. The chief justice filed suit, which René Dalmann evaded by departing for Brittany, where, with his parents and siblings, he had spent many a vacation, in a house owned by his mother’s family, most of whom had fled Alsace in 1871. He remained there until the outbreak of the war, in which he served as a volunteer in the French medical corps. These were the years of his sketches; he had neither time nor money for anything else. Besides wounded, maimed, and dying soldiers, there were also religious motifs—Adam and Eve as a bridal couple lost in a battlefield [REDACTED], the healing of a crippled soldier by a crippled Christ. After the war, the artist lived in [REDACTED] and spent a good deal of his time in the Café Certa—though he never joined the Dadaists—and with André Breton, who won him over to the Communist Party but could not persuade him to join the Surrealists. He held himself apart, until he founded the Lézard Violet with a few friends. René Magritte contributed an article on painting as thinking, Salvador Dali one on how they sliced the girl’s eye, and, without the author’s permission, the periodical printed an English translation of a short essay on collectivism that Max Beckmann had written on his honeymoon. René Dalmann himself wrote about liberating the imagination from the grip of the arbitrary and was in charge of the magazine’s graphic design.
He found all this only moderately interesting. Finally he gave up reading and merely browsed. At the end of the book were a few pages of a chronology of René Dalmann’s life, a bibliography, including works by him, and a list of his exhibitions. This contained an entry for an exhibition called “Est-ce qu’il y a un surréalisme allemand?” shown by the Galerie Colle in [REDACTED] in 1933, with a note that the catalogue cover was “Lizard and Girl,” by René Dalmann. Lizard and girl.
The next morning, he went to his university’s art-history institute and looked in vain for a copy of the 1933 catalogue. He cut his lectures, called in sick with the flu at the restaurant where he was supposed to wait tables at lunchtime, and took a train to the city, where he’d seen René Dalmann’s self-portrait and postwar paintings and bought the book about him. There was a university in the city as well, and an art-history institute, but there was no catalogue at either one. By now he was in a state of feverish excitement. The librarian noticed and asked him what was wrong. He explained that he was searching for René Dalmann’s “Lizard and Girl” and couldn’t find a catalogue that had the painting on its cover. Where might the next nearest art-history institute be?
“Why does it have to be the catalogue cover?”
He stared in incomprehension.
“Presumably he photographed his painting himself, as did his gallerist, the press, and the museum where it hangs.”
“You think it’s hanging in a museum? Where?”
“We have a photo archive. Come with me.”
He followed her down a long corridor to a room with a projector and boxes labelled with names. He grew calmer. He even noticed the librarian’s nice figure and light step and the way she was observing his excitement with a cheerful glance of well-intentioned mockery. She pulled a box from the shelf, studied a list pasted to the inside of the lid, selected a slide almost the size of a postcard, framed in black foil, and slipped it into the projector. “Would you get the light?”
He found the switch and darkened the room. She turned on the projector.
“My God,” he said. It was his painting. The girl, the beach, the rock. But leaning into view from the left wasn’t the girl but a giant lizard, and it wasn’t the lizard sunning on the rock but a tiny girl, adorable, with dark curls and pale face, bright bodice and dark skirt. She lay on one side, her head on her arm, half kittenish child, half seductive woman.
“What museum is the painting in?” “We’ll have to look up front.” The librarian turned off the projector, put the slide back in its box, and returned to the reference room. He watched her take one or two volumes from the shelf and thumb through them. “Will this at least earn me an invitation to dinner?” She went on flipping through the pages. “Oh!”
“What is it?”
“The painting isn’t in a museum. It’s missing. Missing and maybe even destroyed. It was last seen in 1937 at the exhibition of ‘Degenerate Art’ in [REDACTED].”

He looked blank.
“It was shown in Group Five. Here’s what they said: ‘Pornography needs no nakedness, and degeneration needs no distortion of the painter’s craft. With perfect brushstrokes, the Jew can present the German entrepreneur as a capitalist wastrel and a German maiden as a lewd harlot. Filthiness and the Marxist fondness for class warfare go hand in hand for Jews. When one realizes that German mothers and women will also attend this exhibition . . .’ Should I go on?”
“Is there also a painting by René Dalmann called ‘Girl with Lizard’?”
She paged. “How about dinner?”
“When are you through here?”
“At four.”
“But there won’t be any dinner then.”
“And there won’t be any girl with a lizard, either. Are you sure that’s the title?”
“No.” His father and mother had called the painting that; so had he. René Dalmann might have called it something else. “But it shows a girl and a lizard, just the opposite of what we just saw.”
“Interesting. Where did you see it?”
“Oh, I don’t remember.” He had not been paying attention, had gone too far. Had asked more than he should. Luckily, he hadn’t mentioned his name. He would vanish without a trace.
She watched his mind race. “What’s up with you?”
“I have to go. I’ll be waiting for you at four downstairs, O.K.?”
He flew out of the institute, not caring how ridiculous he looked. But, as he sat on a bench beside a lake in the center of town, it became clear to him just how much he didn’t know and needed to learn. So at four o’clock he was standing at the entrance to the art-history institute. She came down the steps and again shot him that look of amiable mockery. “Lizards are shy creatures,” she said.
“I think I need to explain some things. Would you like to sit in the sun by the lake?” On the way there, he began to tell her. As a law student, he worked part time for a lawyer whose specialty was wills and estates, disputes between heirs, locating heirs, evaluating heirlooms. Among the effects of a deceased American, a painting had shown up without provenance, without signature, perhaps of no value whatever, but perhaps worth a great deal, and he was to find out what he could about the painting.
“An American?”
He had spread out his jacket, and they were sitting on the lawn by the lake. “A German émigré whose heirs we’re looking for in [REDACTED].”
“Do you have a reproduction of the painting?”
“Not with me. I’ve got the painting down in my head well enough.” He described it.
“Hey,” she said with a sidelong glance, “you’re really in love with that painting.”
He blushed and turned his head away, pretending to watch a sailboat.
“It doesn’t matter. If it’s a Dalmann—he’s amazing. Have you seen his paintings in our museum?” And she steered the conversation to the museum and the city and life in the city and to where they both came from and what they wanted from life. He made attempts to ask his questions—how you determine who painted a painting, how you follow its fate, find its true owner. She responded to his questions but saw to it that they soon slipped from her conversation again. As the sun vanished behind buildings, it turned cool, and they took a walk around the lake.
“Do you have a boyfriend?” He couldn’t imagine that she didn’t. She was vivacious, clever, witty, and was not only pretty but also had a charming way of brushing her hair from her face and wrinkling her nose.
“We separated three months ago. And you?”
He counted. “Four.”
They had dinner at a restaurant. He realized he wanted to fall in love, wanted to share with her, to trust her. But he had to watch every word and be evasive when talk turned to his parents, to the girlfriend who had left him, to women who attracted him, to the way he lived. He could not become as intimate as he would have liked. It occurred to him that, if they were to meet in his town and decided to go to his place, he could not ask her up to his room. The picture was hanging there.
She walked him to the train station. She wrote down her name, address, and telephone number for him while they were waiting on the platform. He hesitated, but then jotted down his real name and address for her.
“You don’t really want to become a detective, do you?” She had that look of amiable mockery in her eyes again.
“Why?”
“Just asking.” She put her arms around his neck and gave him a quick kiss on the lips. “As for your questions—you take the painting to Sotheby’s or Christie’s. Or, if you’ve read a book about the painter, like my little detective here, you check who the author is and write him in care of his publisher. That is, if you don’t have something to hide, something no one must know about.”
“The train’s about to pull out.” The loudspeaker had announced that the train was departing and the doors were closing. He was already standing on the train.
“Hiding things is exhausting.”
He could only nod. The doors had closed.
“A difficult fate awaits you,” he said to the girl with the lizard. “The lizard just keeps growing, and you keep getting smaller, and in the end you have to flirt with it. You, a girl—with a lizard.” He went on, “Or did you kiss it so that it would turn into a prince, but, instead, it’s just grown bigger, and you’ve got smaller?” He looked at the girl, and suddenly what René Dalmann had done seemed to him a rotten thing to do, a sacrilege. “Are you his sister? Did he hate you? Or love and hate you?”
He went downstairs to the toilet with its tiny sink, above which he had set a tiny shelf where he kept his toothbrush, shaving gear, comb, and brush. He twisted the blade out of the razor and returned to his room. “You’re not going to like this. But I have to do it.” Following the edge of the frame, he cut the paper pasted across the back of the painting. He discovered that the heavy gold frame was screwed to another frame, on which the canvas was stretched. The screws were small, and to remove them he used the screwdriver he had for loose electrical connections. He was afraid the outer frame would stick to the canvas. But he was able to remove it easily.
He leaned the picture against the wall beside his bed and sat on the floor in front of it. He was no longer surprised to find “Dalmann” in the lower-right corner, written in a childish, lightly slanted hand, the “D” ending in a broad flourish. He would have been amazed not to find it, or some other name, there. What surprised him was the impression the painting now made with the additional inches previously hidden by the frame. The extra sky above the girl’s head, her elbow, the tip of which was no longer covered up, the lizard now visible in its entirety—suddenly the painting opened up chest and head, the way a fresh wind and the scent of water let you breathe freely at the shore.

“Did my father lock you up? Or was it whoever the painting belonged to before, maybe still belongs to? And who is or was that?” He examined the frame and found the label of an art dealer in [REDACTED].
On the train trip to his home town, he finished the biography of René Dalmann. In 1930, the painter followed Lydia Diakonov from [REDACTED] to [REDACTED]. She was a cabaret artist, the daughter of a Jewish doctor who had converted to Orthodoxy, a creature of supple, enigmatic beauty. She was Dalmann’s lizard, his Lydie and his “lizzie.” He wrote her letters of undiminishing tenderness. Given his name and the fact that he spoke German without an accent, he was immediately recognized and accepted as a German artist; Ludwig Justi dedicated one of the small rooms in the Crown Prince’s Palace to him. In 1933, when his series “In the Streets: Dirty Dance Macabre” was shown at an exhibition in Karlsruhe entitled “Government Art, 1918-1933,” René Dalmann publicly made fun of the whole affair. German government art? He had painted the series in [REDACTED], in 1928. But then Eberhard Hanfstaengel closed the Dalmann Room in [REDACTED], and Lydia’s cabaret was smashed to smithereens one night by the S.A. In 1937, even before the opening of the [REDACTED] exhibition of “Degenerate Art,” René and Lydia Dalmann, who had married by then, left [REDACTED] for [REDACTED]. Despite his French citizenship, he continued to be regarded as a German artist. In 1938, his work was shown in [REDACTED] at an exhibition of “Twentieth-Century German Art.” There were exhibitions in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] of paintings of his that had been seized and then released for sale by the German authorities; these were then bought by sympathetic dealers and collectors.
With the entry of the Germans into [REDACTED], every trace of René and Lydia Dalmann vanished. Had they stayed, fled to unoccupied [REDACTED] or to [REDACTED] by way of [REDACTED]? The biographer faithfully listed the pros and cons of each possibility but avoided a definitive answer. Whatever they had done, it must have been under new names. In 1946, there was an exhibition in [REDACTED], by a Ron Valomme, of paintings whose style anticipated the New Savages but whose content was indebted to the thematic issues of Dadaist Surrealism. Was Ron Valomme, as some critics suggested, the same person as René Dalmann? There was no reliable trace of Ron Valomme, either.
He had no key to his mother’s studio apartment. He sat down on the entrance step, stared at the cobblestone path that led from the apartments to the garage, at the evergreen shrubs planted on the slope, and at the roses his mother had planted beside the front door in an effort to counter the sterile atmosphere of the place. He thought about his father. He realized that he knew nothing about him, nothing about his father’s parents, who had died in an air raid during the war, about his education, about his activities before and during the war or his career afterward.
“What did Father do during the war?” He was sitting on the terrace with his mother. She had returned from work and made tea. Her gaze moved over the roofs and out across the countryside.
She sighed. “Here we go.”
“Here we go—nothing. What would be the point of my accusing or condemning my dead father? I want to know how my father came by a painting by René Dalmann, which, though I’m not exactly sure of its value, is surely worth hundreds of thousands. I want to know why he made such a secret of the painting.”
“Because he was afraid someone would dispute his ownership. He was on the military court in [REDACTED], but when he found out that the people he was quartered with were Jews with forged papers, he helped them. The painting was their way of thanking him.”
“So what was father’s problem?”
“The painter and his wife had vanished by war’s end, and there were rumors. Your father was worried that if he was identified in any way with the painting it would put him in a bad light. He couldn’t prove that it was a gift.”
He looked at his mother. She was sitting beside him, gazing in the other direction. 
“Mother?”
“Yes?” She didn’t turn her face toward him.
“Were you with him there, in [REDACTED]? Did you see it all happen, or did father tell you about it afterward?”
“How was I supposed to be with him or him with me in [REDACTED] in the middle of the war?”
“Did you believe what father told you?”
She still didn’t turn toward him. He gazed at her profile, which betrayed no irritation, no anger, no sadness. “When he was released from prison by the French, in 1948, and we saw each other again, I had other things to do than worry about his stories from the war. You can’t imagine all the stories people brought back from the war.”
“If you believed him—why did you always use to talk about ‘that Jewish girl’?”
“You remember that?”
He didn’t answer her question. “Why?”
“I thought the girl was the painter’s daughter, and they were Jews.”
“That doesn’t explain your scorn.” He shook his head. “No, you didn’t believe father. You didn’t buy his story about helping Jews. Or you thought it wasn’t the whole story and that there was something between him and the girl. Was he blackmailing her? Did he force her to have an affair with him? You knew that she was the painter’s wife, is that it?”
She said nothing.
“Why did father lose his job as a judge?” He turned to look at her. She had thrust out her chin and pursed her lips, and he could see she was refusing to answer his question.
“Would it be any better if I asked his colleagues or supervisors from those days? I’m sure I’ll find someone who’ll understand why, as a future lawyer, I want to know what happened.”
“He served on a military court. He had to be strict. He had to be hard. Do you think you win friends that way?”
“No, but it didn’t disqualify him for a judgeship after the war.”
“He was accused of something that wasn’t true but sounded so awful that he didn’t want to subject himself—or you or me—to it.”
He looked at her.
“They said he condemned an officer to death for having helped Jews escape the police. Since you think you have to know everything—the officer was his friend, and they said he turned him in himself.”
“Whoever made the accusation must have found witnesses or documents or reports. Did it become a big story in the press?”
“Not locally, but in the rest of the country. Around here, people made sure the whole thing vanished from the headlines quickly.”
He could check newspaper files and track down the journalist who had made the accusation and have a look at his evidence. Maybe he could also find out where his father had lived in [REDACTED] and who else had been living in the house at the time. Were there lists of Jews from [REDACTED] who had been transported to the death camps? Were there relatives of René Dalmann who might be worth talking to?

“What did Father say to the charges?” But no sooner had he asked than he didn’t want to hear any more.
“That he and the officer plus another officer had helped a lot of Jews and that the one he condemned had had to be sacrificed so that they wouldn’t all end up dead, especially the Jews who were in danger. And that it was all by dumb chance that he ended up presiding over the case and having to pronounce sentence.”
He laughed. “So Father did everything right? And everyone else just misunderstood?”
His mother offered him the couch for the night; because of her bad back, she often slept on the floor. But he declined; he couldn’t bear the idea of sleeping on the sofa where his mother usually slept, with its smell of her, and the hollows her body had made.
When he woke up in the middle of the night, he nonetheless could sense her presence as strongly as if he were lying on the sofa. He could smell her and hear her breathing. In the moonlight, he saw her clothes neatly arranged on the arms, seat, and back of the chair. At times, she would shift to the edge of the sofa in her sleep, and then light would fall on her face, and he could see her white hair and hard features. He knew that she had been a beautiful woman; he had once seen a photograph his father had taken of her on their honeymoon, coming toward him between hedges in a park, wearing a pale dress, walking quietly, a soft, surprised, happy look on her face. But he couldn’t recall ever having seen her so happy or so soft, either with him or with his father. Was the war to blame? Or events in [REDACTED]? Had his father done things to her or to others that she could never forgive him for? And why had she been so hard on him, too? Because he was his father’s son?
Sadness overwhelmed him. He felt sorry for his mother, his father, and himself, especially himself. The presence of his mother, of her clothes, her breath, her smell—it all still felt unpleasant to him, and at the same time it hurt him that he found it unpleasant. Why did he have no childhood memories of his mother’s attention and tenderness? If only he had them, then he could recognize and love the woman from back then in the body present now.
The next morning, she gave him a file. His father had put it together. He had collected the newspaper articles about his case, glued them on white paper, noting the source at the top of the page and filling the right margin with exclamation points and question marks to express approval or disagreement. For the most part, he rejected what was reported, sometimes he even made corrections, like editorial marks on a manuscript. He had crossed out an error concerning his age, noting the change in the margin and providing his true age. He had corrected a false statement about the dates of his service on the military court in [REDACTED], errors as to the ranks of officers involved, an inaccurate account of the submission and rejection of an appeal for clemency, and a wrong date given for the execution of the officer he had sentenced to death. There was an especially large number of corrections in a long article from a major paper. This was followed by several pages entitled “Rebuttal,” which his father had typed on a machine his son knew well. “It is incorrect that my service as a judge of the military court in [REDACTED] began on 1 July, 1943. Rather, it is correct to say . . .” And it went on like that for page after page. “It is incorrect that I wormed my way into the confidence of the accused and abused it in regard to his attempt to prevent Jews from being arrested. Rather, it is correct to say that I provided whatever help I could to the accused in his endeavors, warned him of impending peril, and continued to attempt to protect both him and said Jews despite the threat of my violating important duties at considerable peril to myself. It is incorrect that I pronounced a sentence of death from selfish motives and with the intent of bending the law to the detriment of the accused. Rather, it is correct to say that, in view of the evidence and the law, I had no choice but to condemn the accused to death. It is incorrect that I illegally enriched myself with the property of Jews and in particular ordered that portable items with which said Jews fled or planned to flee be consigned to me for the purpose of illegally misappropriating them. Rather, it is correct to say that I had neither authority to dispose of Jewish property nor the duty to protect Jewish property interests and therefore could neither abuse my authority nor fail to fulfill said duty. It is incorrect that I . . .”
His mother watched him read. He asked her, “This rebuttal—do you know it?”
“Yes.”
“Did the paper publish it? Did Father send it to them?”
“No. His lawyer didn’t want him to.”
“Did you?”
“Surely you don’t believe your father consulted me.”
“But what did you think of what he’d written? How would you have felt if it had been published?”
“What did I think?” She shrugged. “He weighed every sentence. They couldn’t have used a single word of it to lay a trap for him.”
“He copied paragraphs directly from the penal code. He copied them to demonstrate that he couldn’t be punished. But it makes for appalling reading. It reads as if he would be willing to acknowledge everything but insists he did nothing punishable by law. As if you admit you poisoned someone’s food but insist that you followed every line of the recipe in a cookbook—that’s the way it reads.”
She took the file, ordered the pages from left to right, snapped them in place, and closed the cover. “He’d grown very cautious. During the war, things had been topsy-turvy—enough to last him a lifetime. After the war, he was cautious, for your and my sake as well as for his own. He was even cautious when he drank. You know how drunks are, there’s something they’re not supposed to say, they try to avoid it, then blast it out anyway. Your father never did that.”
It sounded as if she was proud. Proud that her husband had at least never bragged about what he had done to her and others.
“Did he ever ask your forgiveness for what he’d done to you?”
“Ask my forgiveness?” She stared, dumbfounded.
He gave up. He realized she wasn’t holding anything back from him but simply didn’t know what he wanted to know, didn’t understand what he was insisting upon or why. She wanted him to leave her and her husband in peace, just as she left him in peace. The spot in her soul that had been wounded had scarred over, and, with it, its soft tissue, the stuff of happiness and love. Her soul was all scar tissue now. Maybe back then, when she had been wounded, or soon after, the pain might have been healed. It was too late now. It had been too late for a long time. She had lived for a long time now with her scars, lies, caution.

Then, suddenly, the thought came to him. This wasn’t the first time she was leaving him in peace. As far back as he could remember, she had left him in peace, wanted him to leave her in peace. As if she had nothing to do with him. As if he had once troubled her too strongly, too deeply. “When you conceived me, did Father rape you? Was it while he was in [REDACTED], doing awful things, and having an affair with the Jewish girl? Did he arrive one night, and you knew about this other woman and didn’t want to sleep with him, and he didn’t give a damn what you knew or wanted, and raped you? Is that how I came into the world? You’ve never forgiven me for that, have you?”
She kept shaking her head, over and over. Then he saw that she was crying. At first she sat there rigid and mute, tears rolling down her cheeks, dangling for a moment from her chin, and then dripping onto her skirt. When she raised her hands to wipe the tears from her face, she began to sob.
He stood up, went over to her chair, and tried to hug her. She sat there rigid and stiff and refused his hug. He talked to her, but she refused his words. She was still silent when he said goodbye.
He took a train home and resumed his life. When the librarian wrote him that she would be in town on business, he met her, they took a walk, had dinner, and returned to his place. He had shoved the painting under his bed.
But it wouldn’t leave him in peace. What if she happened to look under the bed and discovered the painting? What if the bed frame and mattress collapsed? The painting would be ruined, and, worse, would be visible when things were put back in order. What if he were to talk in his sleep to the girl with the lizard? He did it often during the day. “Girl with lizard,” he would say, “I have to study,” and he would tell her what he had to study. Or he would ask her opinion about what to wear. Or scold her in the morning because she hadn’t awakened him in time. Or talk with her about the fate of René Dalmann or about his father. “Did your painter give you to my father? Or did my father betray your painter to get you—when your painter was trying to escape with you? But why with you in particular?” Again and again he would ask her, “What am I going to do with you, girl with lizard?”
Should he look for Dalmann’s heirs and give them the painting? But he didn’t think much of the notion of inheritance. Should he cash the painting in and make his life easier with the money? Or do good with it? Did he owe anything to the people his father had treated unjustly? Because he had profited from his father’s misdeeds? But how had he profited? The fact that he could look at the girl with the lizard and talk to her—was it a blessing or a curse?
“What’s happened to your painting?” the librarian asked.
They were lying in bed, gazing at one another. “I didn’t get any further.” He made a face intended to show that it was all a bit painful but didn’t matter. “I’m not working for the lawyer anymore.”
“So, somewhere in [REDACTED], there’s a little apartment whose tenant has died, but a painting by one of the century’s most renowned artists hangs there unrecognized? The tenant was poor and old, and now cockroaches are running across his dirty table, rats are gnawing at his shoes. The gangster who broke into his apartment and has settled in is lying on his bed, snoring, and bang! bang! one day, in a shootout, the girl gets a hole in her forehead, and the lizard loses its tail. Perhaps the old man was René Dalmann himself?” She was talking a little too much. But he liked listening to her. “You can live with that?”
“With what?”
“That it’s all been left in the dark?”
“Anybody who wants to know can go to Sotheby’s or Christie’s or to the guys who’ve written books about René Dalmann.”
She cuddled up to him. “You’ve learned something. Have you learned something?”
He didn’t want to fall asleep. He didn’t want to talk in his sleep. He didn’t want her to wake up and decide to go to the toilet, search under the bed for her shoes, and find the painting. He didn’t want . . . But then he fell asleep after all, and it was light when he woke up, she had just come back from the toilet and hopped into bed so hard that it frightened him. But the frame and mattress held.
“I’ve got to catch the seven-forty-four train so I can be at the institute by nine.”
“I’ll take you.”
Before closing and locking the door, he looked back, and his room bothered him. It wasn’t his room. She had rummaged in his books, she was having her period and had left stains in his bed; during their walk along the shore she had picked up a rusty old letter scale and carried it home. And the girl with the lizard wasn’t hanging above his bed. After saying goodbye to the librarian at the station and still feeling a bit distracted and uneasy, he returned home and straightened up. Books back onto their shelves, new sheets on the bed, the painting back above it, the letter scale on top of the wardrobe, just behind his suitcase. “Yes, girl with lizard, now everything’s back in order.”
He was standing in the middle of the room and looking at this order. The order of books in the bookcase, which reminded him of the ordered books in his father’s bookcase. The same shabby tidiness that his mother had summoned up to counter the family’s decline. “Girl with Lizard,” no longer in its golden frame but a canvas stretched on wood, yet as dominating as it ever was in his parents’ apartment. And, just as had been the case at home, the painting was a treasure, a mystery, a window onto beauty and freedom, and at the same time a commanding, controlling power to which sacrifices would have to be made. He thought of the life still ahead of him.
He did nothing that day. He strolled the streets a bit, passing the law school, the bar where he worked, and the house where the girl he had once loved still lived. Or had he never learned to love?
That evening, he went back to his apartment for a moment to wrap the painting, its frame, and some newspaper in the sheet he had stripped from the bed. Then he took them to the beach. There were fires burning, with young people sitting around them, partying. He walked on until the last fire was behind him. Then he made one of his own. The newspapers flared up, as did the sheet and the frame. He tossed the painting on the fire. Colors fused, and the girl melted and was no longer recognizable. But, before she had burned entirely, the edge of the canvas curled back to reveal another painting stretched on the frame beneath “Girl with Lizard.” The giant lizard, the tiny girl—for a fraction of a second he saw the painting that René Dalmann had wanted to protect and take with him as he fled. Then the canvas blazed up.
When the fire died away, he shoved the embers around with the toe of his shoe. He didn’t wait until it had all burned down to ashes. He watched the little blue and red flames for a while. Then he went home. 

