GIGANTIC
By Marc Nesbitt

At the zoo, I park by banging my axle against the curb and hope I can back the car out later. I have a laminated pass with my face and name on it which clips to my pocket and grants me a key to every cage.
I work at a University Thrift Zoo just south of [REDACTED]. We get secondhand animals from city zoos and “wildlife parks.” There the rhinos and zebras get wide fields of dirt; all the cages are over-sized, walls hand-painted to each natural habitat’s specifications.
Here the cinder block is asylum manila and the animals lick the bars where thrown food has smashed. Here we have a sluggish boa, digesting a tumor. Seals on climate-controlled plastic ice. We’ve got a tiger with green gums. This is where they put the retarded creatures and criminals—animals doing penance for something they committed when they were human.
Sign on the polar bears’ open-air vivarium says, “Quiet! Bears sleeping!” Kids hang on the rail, spit in the pool; wait for days to see bears that have long since been hauled away on flatbeds, under tarps, for burial out by the quarry.
The rhesus monkeys are the property of the Psychology Department—all the primates are, actually—hair falling out, patches of pale-pink skin, always throwing one another through tires or trying to rip their own ears off.
I rake dead bats from the hay floor of the bat cage and throw them in a black plastic bag. Later I’ll take them to the Dumpster and still no one’ll be able to explain why the bats keep dropping like fruit or why they have hay in a bat cage in the first place. I pick up a sign that says, “Quiet! ___ sleeping!,” slip in the “Bats” panel, and place it up front, where all the kids can see it.
An hour till we open, I go see our one elephant, Clarice. She’s already out and stamping through beige pebbles small as gallstones, testing her feet. When it rains she’s kept caged for days—pacing the same figure eight, scraping the walls on her turns. Now she stands gigantic in the morning with a scab on her forehead thick as a tree trunk.
I blow through my lips, raise an arm, do a horrible impression of her species. She trumpets. We repeat this until she realizes I don’t have food. She reaches beneath her feet, picks up a rock and throws it to me. I put it in my pocket and blow her a kiss.
I walk back past the hippo in his dirty little bathtub to see Dewey digging a ditch behind the Dumpsters.
“What died?” I say.
“This whole fucking zoo if you’d give it a minute. Place is a shit hole.” Dewey’s a white boy, sweating and powdered with dirt.
“Look what Clarice gave me.”
“That a tooth?” Dewey says.
“It’s a rock.”
“Same thing.”
The university owns this place, but Dewey’s Uncle Don runs it, which means whenever Don wants to say anything he waits for the professor-of-the-day to come stick a hand up his ass and make him speak.
Dewey works here only in the summers, in no official capacity; mostly he walks around getting high and talking to the animals, occasionally burying whatever died last night. The rest of the year, he’s a terrible student at the university and smokes his entire allowance. He’s got blond dreads with rings, beads, and seashells, greasy dandruff caught in the roots. First week I worked here, he said, “The moon might have cool booths and cheap drinks, but the earth’s got atmosphere,” and I’ve listened to less than half of what he’s said ever since. That was two years ago.
“So what’s dead now?” I say.
“D’you do those bats, Fiddy?” he asks me.
“They’re right here,” I say, holding up the bag I’ve still got with me.
“My dog,” he says, points his shovel at the lumped beach towel next to his leg.
“He was sick.”
“Not anymore.”
Dewey’s dog was a zoo favorite and free to wander the grounds; even Don didn’t care. The dog was a bull terrier that smiled when it panted and made kids laugh—they’d pet him, giggle, drop ice cream and French fries on his back. Never once barked or so much as growled. The thing had been skinny to begin with, but for a while now would throw up everything he ate, right on the zoo path, staggering through the crowds. Wasting away right in front of us; nothing we could do about it. Wasn’t like the dog didn’t eat. We’d catch him in the Dumpsters at least twice a day, pull him out by the collar, Dewey smacking his ass with that same shovel.
“I can’t believe Brutus is dead.”
“Brewster,” he says.
“Isn’t that what I said?”
Dewey rubs his forehead and stares at the dirt paste in his hand.
“Well, I still can’t believe he’s dead,” I say.
“Believe it,” he says. “You can check for yourself.” He pokes the towel a couple of times and we wait for it to move. “See?”
“I see a hole without a dog,” Uncle Don says, appearing suddenly in a baby-blue sweatsuit, fat and slightly mafioso. His hair’s Grecian, curly and kelplike. He’s shiny. Olive oil for sunblock. “I see two thumbs in two asses and everybody wondering where their hands went.”
Dewey kicks the corpse and towel into the hole. It takes a few tries.
“What’s in the bag?” Don asks me.
“Cafeteria trash,” I say.
“Then why’s it moving?”
“Goddam rats,” I say, drop the bag to the ground and step on the part that’s squirming.
Don holds up his hands like he just bought them. He says, “One of the Psych freaks told me they found pot plants in the gorilla compound.”
Dewey stops throwing dirt with the ditch half filled. Puts his foot on the shovel blade and says, “They?”
I say, “Compound?”
“You ever heard of gorillas?” Don says. “Know where we keep ‘em? Well. In there. The only people with keys besides me and the Psych Department are you two.”
“And . . . ,” Dewey says.
“So . . . ,” Don says.
“Wasn’t me,” I say.
“I haven’t accused anybody yet.”
But Dewey and I have, sneering at each other like we’re losing at charades. “Maybe it just grew wild,” Dewey says. “Maybe they brought seeds over in their fur. Like bees, maybe.”
Don says, “It had an electric fence around it.”
Dewey points the shovel at me. “Then Fiddy did it.”
“He called your zoo a shit hole,” I say.
Dewey looks at his uncle and asks who he’s going to believe, but Don’s staring right at me. “What’ll the Psychology people think?” he wants to know, furious, with his pulse in his face.
Fired from the zoo at two in the afternoon and now I have nothing to do. I head for a bar in the city. I just called Max, someone I know who’ll drink during daylight hours. Most people drink until they’re twenty-five—some ride it out to thirty. The rest of us turn pro. I’m having a terrible year and the fans are against me.

I smoke outside the bar, flick sparks on passing dogs behind their walkers’ backs. Trees unfold from mulch under sewer grates. I’m feeling sorry for myself, stench like a kennel, when up walks Max: sag-eyed white kid, skinny as a cartoon chicken singing Bing Crosby. There’s blood on his T-shirt; on his neck six inches of insect-black stitches. “Just ran into the woman I love,” he says.
“That how you got that gash?” I say.
“In a way. I mean, I was walking around staring at the hooks in the ceiling of the tire warehouse where I’m temping—yeah, I don’t know, that’s why I’m staring—and I come out from one of those four-story pallet alleys and I fucking drill her. Not literally or nothing like that, just ran right into her and knocked off her hard hat. I’m holding her arms so she won’t fall, you know, ‘cause women like that sort of thing. I mean, I had her elbows in my hands and I say—wait, what’d I say, oh yeah—I say, ‘Excuse me,’ and this forklift swings around, almost lops my head off.”
“What’d she say?”
“Couldn’t hear her. ‘Cause of the forklift.” We both squint down the street at heat rising out of the sidewalk.
He and I always have these stories. Finally get introduced to a girl and puke under the table. Or she disappears in the parking lot with her ex-boyfriend, half an hour into your first date. “Maybe you didn’t miss anything,” I say. “Maybe she didn’t even open her mouth.”
He stretches his neck so you can see the thread pulling on the skin. He says, “It’s worse than it looks. I mean better.” He’s got on surgeon-green pants he stole from Emergency. “These aren’t even mine,” he says, and he might mean the pants or the blood spots.
Max and I are friends because we’re afraid to drink alone. In public, anyway. We’re like a guy and his CPR dummy so he can drive in the car-pool lane. We alternate roles.
In the bar, after the door shuts, it takes at least a minute to see shapes. Another minute to see the whole place: a salmon cinder-block pit with no windows; every inch of wall holds a beer mirror and it’s smoky even when it’s empty.
Or almost empty. Albert the resident regular sits at the rail end in his fedora, newspaper-gray skin, drinking Jack-and-Tab and stabbing empty soda cans with a pen. Smoke’s coming from the neck of his ancient suit.
Max says, “Hey, Albert, you dead yet?”
Albert points a two-finger pistol with a lit cigarette in its tips, says in a voice you could sharpen rocks with, “What’s with the neck, Frankenstein? You kill somebody?”
“Forklift at that place I was temping. You know how it is.”
“Lucky it ain’t cut your juggler.”
“Plus I got a pair of pants.”
I pull out money, say, “You probably want another one, don’t you, Albert?”
“Don’t lecture me, motherfucker.”
Rufus the bartender is big enough to count as a couple in the census and black as his weight in coffee beans. He’s got the floor raised so he can roll in front of the liquor on a three-wheel stool. He shifts his mass in his yellow windbreaker like a rhino trapped in a tent. He’s on the phone. “I’m on the phone,” he says to us. On television, they’ve got tarps on the [REDACTED] infield; players sit in dugouts and spit through the rain.
Rufus sets the phone down, announces, “I’m having a kid!” Arms up like touchdown.
“No, you’re not. You’re just fat. Now bring us some drinks,” Max says.
“Hey, Fiddy,” Rufus says to me. “Why you always hang out with white boys?”
I shrug.
Rufus says, “Betchugotta cracker bitch, too.”
“I’m bitchless.”
“Betchu,” Rufus says. Hand up his jacket, rubbing sweat from under one of his breasts.
Max thinks he’s a poet. He sets his manuscript on the bar, cover page tie-dyed by food stains. Title: “Midget’s in My Attic.” “I’m thinking about taking out the apostrophe,” he says.
“You should leave it,” I say.
He flips to a page near the back. “Read this one,” he says. He’s got his hand in my shirt pocket, wrestling a pack of cigarettes. “Hey, Rufus, you here again?” he says. “You’re a goddam workaholic.”
“What’s that make you?” Rufus asks.
“My point exactly.”
The poem’s called “Smelt Night.” The first line: “Cheap wine always brings the roaches out of hiding.”
Rufus stares at the television, rolls in the back of his neck like a pack of black hot dogs. He says, “So, seriously, guys, Gina’s having a baby.”
“Well, why the hell didn’t you say so in the first place?” Max says. “You knowwhat this calls for, Rufus. A celebration. Shots around the bar! All—wait—one, two, four of us! Hook it up, my man. And that’s countin’ you, Señor, so make yourself one while you’re at it.”
“Thanks for permission,” Rufus says. He gives us sewage-beige shots spilling from rocks glasses.
“To the soon-to-be father!” Max stands on his stool now. “Please, God, let it be a girl!” and we all scream, even Rufus. Max downs his glass, shudders and winces, puts his head in his arms, and doesn’t talk for a few minutes. My friend the manual-labor temp. He’d work the worst shifts you ever heard of, then take a week off to drink.
I’d actually liked my job. On good days I felt like I was keeping the animals alive, even if only for another week, before they got chucked in the Dumpster or loaded onto trucks by crane.
I pull the rock from my pocket, turn it over in my fingers. It’s perfectly smooth and the size of a miniature ear. First thing an animal ever gave me that didn’t leave a scar. I’ll miss Clarice. She made my mornings, shaking her head in the sun. That’s why I liked that place: this rock, her enormous head. The tiger on its back, tongue out, letting me hose the dirt off its belly. I should’ve brought Clarice birthday cakes every day, hand-fed her gourmet lettuce.
Then I remember her lying on her side, wailing in her cage, and think maybe I should have mercy-killed her before I left. Should’ve done the monkeys, too, for that matter. I’d need a giant blade—a scimitar, maybe, machete even, some one-stroke stuff. Gas pellets in the ventilation shafts, poisonous vegetables.
I had promised myself one cigarette per drink, but after a few doubles the world sped up, and by now I had two cigarettes left in what had been a fresh pack and I’d lost count of my drinks. I’d tipped Rufus obscenely and he’d yet to throw me a buyback.
Max is up again and yammering next to me. “I don’t care,” he says to Albert. “Just don’t give me a job where every day I might die. Like the President. Or a stewardess.”
Albert says, “Yeah. What else?”
“Keeping busy,” Max says. “Trying to juggle two chicks at once.”
“Two?”
“At the same time.”
Albert says, “That ain’t juggling, man. You’re just passing your balls from hand to hand.”

On TV the rain delay’s over; a player tomahawks a bat at the kid who collects bats. Bleacher people throw food into the bullpen.
Bar’s suddenly packed for happy hour—two blocks from Camden Yards, and the Orioles have a game at seven. Rufus sliding like a maniac, sparks on his wheels.
“How long we been here?” I ask nobody.
“Three hours,” they answer.
The place is crowded now to the point of freakish: people hanging from the rafters, popping out of one another’s backs, growing from puddles on the bar.
Through the suits and smoke, Dewey comes through the door, still in his zoo jumpsuit. He grabs the stool next to me—him on one side, a nearly passed-out Max on the other, me staring at three shelves of liquor posing for their all-star photo.
Dewey says, “Dude.” I take this to mean he’s speaking seriously. “I feel super bad about what happened.”
“Who the fuck is this guy?” Max asks. “Hey. Hey you. Nice hair. Close your eyes before you bleed to death.” He’s standing next to me, eagerly spinning his barstool like a kid’s riding on it. Much as I despise Max sometimes, he and I are soul mates compared to anything I feel for Dewey.
“I didn’t know my uncle’d fire you, Fiddy,” Dewey says. “I so had no idea.”
“D’you think about what he might do?” I say.
He thinks about it, says, “I’ll admit I never got that far.”
Max wipes whiskey on twenties and wallpapers his forehead.
Behind me someone screams, “Hey, barkeep, that’s the fourth dolla ya fuckin’ jukebox tooka mine!”
Rufus says, “Then stop putting money in it!”
Dewey gives me a shark tooth on a leather shoelace and a Buddhist prayer bracelet with mood beads. He’s been quiet and slightly weepy, and now with the gifts it feels like a breakup. If I’d just take them it’d make him feel better. He says he’ll buy me a drink.
I point to the drink I have, push it over on the bar. “Second thought, I will take one. Him, too.” The stool next to me’s empty; Max is in back screaming at the pay phone.
“What’s he drink?” Dewey says.
“Wet stuff. Not a lot of ice.”
Dewey keeps staring at his hands on his knees like he just heard his dog died. He says, “I didn’t mean . . . ,” and, “But I just . . . “
“You just. Just came all the way down here to give me beads, that’s what you just.”
“And a shark tooth. And to get your badge.”
“Point being: fuck you very much, Dewey, I don’t want the shark tooth. I found it by the food court and gave it to you. If I wanted it, I’da kept it.”
Max spilled his last drink, so when he comes back and sits down he leaves his new one on the bar, leans over and takes it from the straw. The prayer beads are going from black to blood red to deep-sea green, right there against my glass.
“I’ll take these beads, though,” I say.
“I found those,” Dewey says.
“Your girlfriend gave you this bracelet. I was there.”
“They change color according to your karma.”
“That’s exactly what she said,” I say.
“So, your badge.”
“I’m what?”
“Your pass,” he says. “That little thing that lets you in the zoo every morning. I need it back.”
“My pass . . . ,” I say, so slowly I hope he leaves before I finish. I tried to burn my pass earlier, but the lamination stank so much I gave up. Now it’s curled in my pocket, black-brown and half the size it used to be.
Dewey still sits there. Everyone else in the bar races their drinks to their faces, glancing side-eyed like a pie-eating contest.
“Here it is,” I say, hold it up hidden in my fist, accidentally throw it on the floor on purpose. I say to his back, as he’s bent over, “Anyway, my friend and I were just leaving.”
Max says, “Who. Me?”
We head home in silence. I have drunk concentric thoughts and serious trouble with gravity. Max so loaded he walks like his shoulder’s separated. We take to a curb in the Camden Yards parking lot; watch minivans wander the aisles, late for the game. Even from here, you can see bugs cloud the stadium floodlights and listen to the loud hollow crowd noise like a riot in a tunnel.
A cop rolls up so slow I start thinking detox, stand slightly more sober for an instant. The squad stops in front of us. I salute.
“Your friend O.K.?” cop says.
“He’s tired,” I say. “He got fired. Hey, that rhymed.”
“Poet and you didn’t know it.”
“But my feet show it ‘cause they’re long fellers.”
The cop produces an arm from the car window, and in the hand on the end of his ham of a forearm he holds two paper squares. Rectangles, maybe. “Want tickets there, pally? Six-buck special. For the salute.”
“All I got’s a twenty.”
He gives me the tickets, takes the twenty. Drives away instead of making change.
I kick Max’s legs, try to lift him by his torso. “Tickets, man! Tick-ets!”
“Go on without me,” he says, picking at his stitches. “I’m not gonna make it.”
“Don’t you die on me now. We’re almost at the chopper.”
Eventually I get him to his feet, arm over my shoulder. “Gimme a minute,” he says. He lurches up against a tree trunk and violently dry heaves for a while. When he’s done, he puts his hands on his knees and spits in the grass. Takes a deep breath.
“There you go,” I say. “In with the good stuff, out with the bad.”
He arches his back, spreads his fists and howls at the moon, “O-ree-oooooooooos!” Smiles at me with his eyes closed, swaying. “O.K., I’m ready. Wait—” Stops smiling. “News flash.” He pukes on the curb, his shirt, his [REDACTED] scrubs; paints a station wagon; fills the back of a pickup; finally falls on his back in the grass, breathing like a sedated beast.
I poke his head with my toe. “Maybe I will go on without you.” I crouch, slap him. “Hey,” I say. “Hey,” again and again and again in time with each slap. It’s kind of fun. Nothing will move him. “Well,” I tell the tree, “I tried.” The tree understands. “Stay here, Max.” I fold a ticket and set it on his nose.
From the stadium speakers, someone screams how he got his mojo working. The gate lady waves me through without ripping my ticket. As I’m heading for my section, the music cuts off. The crowd starts in, louder than ever, like they’re getting their limbs torn off, but no, they’re chanting somebody’s name—it’s my name—the whole of Camden Yards is chanting, “Fih-dy! Fih-dy! Fih-dy!” I come from the tunnel into fists and faces and foam fingers waving, and across the field on the Sony JumboTron I see a two-story picture of some guy named Eddie and none of this has anything to do with me.

‘
I don’t remember how the game was, or who won. I remember fat, red people wrestling. A guy in a rainbow wig with someone’s name and time of day on cardboard: “John 3:16.” I wanted to tell him, “It’s almost ten. John’s not coming.”
At one point the big screen said:
**{: .break one} ** JASON SCHENKBERG IN SECTION 87 SAYS: PAULA, WILL YOU MARRY ME? **
It showed the couple in their seats. She seemed stunned, eyes still on the JumboTron while he sat with a beer and the ring in his hands. She winced, leaned away, slid in her finger like she was reaching in the garbage. He kissed her and spilled beer on her pants. The guy behind them gave them a ball—a foul he’d caught earlier, when the P.A.’d screamed, “Give that fan a contract!”
Next thing the game’s over, people are headed for the exits, mooing, laughing, pushing one another into strangers. I’m outside the stadium in the gigantic blue night, scab of a moon on its forehead.
I find Max face down in the median grass, sleeping like he fell off a building. A bucktooth black kid with walleye squats, pokes the back of Max’s neck. “Your friend O.K.?” he wants to know.
“He ate something funny.”
“He ain’t laughing.”
Around us the crowd spreads toward their cars. Somewhere someone screams, “Nimrod! Get your black ass back over heuh!” Nimrod laughing through his fingers, hiding his enormous teeth. He keeps the wandering eye on me.
I have to squint to get him in focus. Closing one eye helps. The kid’s got my prayer beads on—big as a belt on his wrist—fingers open wide so they won’t fall off. I’d stretched them over the top of a fire hydrant when Max and I first sat on the curb. “Where’d you get those?”
“They’re mine.”
“Nimrod!” His massive mother comes from the rows of cars, stands legs apart with her fists on her hips. “Boy, don’t make me come over there.”
“We’re just talking, Ma’am,” I say.
“Ain’t nobody ask yo’ drunk ass.”
“True enough.”
She turns away from us and lumbers back where she came from, says over her shoulder, “Nimrod, you don’t beat me to the car, I’ma whoop you shiny.”
He gets halfway to the cars when I say, “Hey, kid,” like Mean Joe Greene in the Coke commercial. I reach in my shirt. Throw him the rock and he puts it in his pocket. 

