THE VERY RIGID SEARCH
By Jonathan Safran Foer

My legal name is Alexander Perchov. But all of my many friends dub me Alex, because that is a more flaccid-to-utter version of my legal name. My mother dubs me Alexi-stop-spleening-me!, because I am always spleening her. My father used to dub me Shapka, for the fur hat I would don even in the summer month. He stopped dubbing me that because I ordered him to stop dubbing me that. It sounded boyish to me, and I have always thought of myself as very potent and generative. As for me, I was sired in 1977, the same year as Jonathan Safran Foer, who is the hero of this story. In truth, my life has been very ordinary. I dig 556e6974656420537461746573n movies. I dig Negroes, particularly Michael Jackson. I dig to disseminate very much currency at famous discothèques in Odessa. Lamborghini Countaches are excellent, and so are cappuccinos. Many girls want to be carnal with me in many good arrangements, notwithstanding the Inebriated Kangaroo, the Gorgky Tickle, and the Unyielding Zoo Keeper. But, nonetheless, it is evident that my life is ordinary. That is why I was so effervescent to go to Lutsk and translate for Jonathan Safran Foer. It would be unordinary.
My mother is a humble woman. She toils at a small café one hour distant from our home. She says to me, “All day I am doing things I do not like. You want to know why? It is for you, Alexi-stop-spleening-me! One day, you will do things for me that you do not like. That is what it means to be a family.” What she does not clutch is that I already do things for her that I do not like. I listen to her when she talks, and I resist bewailing about my pygmy allowance. But I do not do these things because we are a family. I do them because they are common decencies. That is an idiom that the hero taught me. I do them because I am not a big fucking asshole. That is another idiom that the hero taught me.
My father toils for a travel agency here in Odessa. It is denominated Heritage Touring. It is for Jewish people, like the hero, who have cravings to leave that ennobled country [REDACTED], and visit humble towns in [REDACTED] and [REDACTED]. My father’s business scores a translator, guide, and driver for the Jews, who try to find places where their families once existed. Jewish people are at intervals having shit between their brains. But Jonathan Safran Foer is not having shit between his brains. He is an ingenious Jew.
Now I will begin the story. My father obtained a telephone call from the 556e6974656420537461746573n office of Heritage Touring. They required a driver, guide, and translator for a young man who would be in Lutsk at the dawn of the month of July. “Shapka,” my father said to me, “what was the language you studied this year at school?” “Do not call me Shapka,” I said. “Alex,” he said, what was the language you studied this year at school?” “The language of English,” I told him. “Are you good and fine at it?” he asked me. “I am fluid,” I told him. “Excellent, Shapka,” he said. “Do not call me that,” I said. “Excellent, Alex. You must nullify any plans you possess for the first week of the month of July.” “I do not possess any plans,” I said. “Yes, you do,” he said. “Your grandfather and you are going to Lutsk.”
Now is a befitting time to mention my grandfather. I will mention him. He has gold teeth, and dubs me Sasha. He toiled for fifty years at many employments, primarily farming, and later machine manipulating. His final employment was at Heritage Touring, where he persevered until several years of yore. But now he is retarded. My grandmother died two years ago of a cancer in her brain, and my grandfather became very melancholy, and also, he says, blind. My father does not believe him, but purchased a seeing-eye bitch for him, nonetheless, because a seeing-eye bitch is not only for blind people but also for people who pine for the antonym of loneliness—a word I am unable to discover because that page of my very useful thesaurus has vanished. (And I should not have used “purchased” because in truth my father did not purchase her, but only accepted currency to take her from the home for forgotten dogs. Because of this, she is not a real seeing-eye bitch, and is also mentally deranged.) If you’re conjecturing what the bitch’s name is, it is Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr. She has this name because Sammy Davis, Jr., was my grandfather’s beloved singer.
After telephoning me, my father informed my grandfather that he would be the driver of our journey at the dawn of July. If you want to know who would be the guide, the answer is there would be no guide. My father said that a guide was not an indispensable thing, because my grandfather knew a beefy amount from his years at Heritage Touring. But when my grandfather and I roosted in my father’s house that night to converse the journey, my grandfather said, “I do not want to do it. I did not become a retarded person in order to have to perform shit such as this.” “I do not care what you want,” my father told him. That was the end of the conversation. In my family, my father has become a world expert at ending conversations. So we made schemes to procure the hero at the Lvov train station, on 2 July, 1999, at 15:00 of the afternoon. From there, we would drive to Lutsk and the neighboring villages. “He is looking for the town his grandfather came from, and someone who salvaged his grandfather from the war,” my father said. “He may have low-grade brains. The 556e6974656420537461746573n office informs me that he telephones them every day and manufactures numerous half-witted queries about eating and the hazard of rapid bowel proceedings.” Here I will repeat that the hero is a very ingenious Jew.
My grandfather and I viewed television for several hours after my father reposed. We viewed an 556e6974656420537461746573n program that had the words in Russian at the bottom of the screen. It was about a Chinaman who was resourceful with a bazooka. Amid my grandfather and I was a silence you could cut with a scimitar. The only time that either of us spoke was when he rotated to me during an advertisement for McDonald’s beefburgers and said, “I do not want to drive ten hours to an ugly city to attend to a spoiled 556e6974656420537461746573n.”
It made my girls very mirthless that I should be away for many days. I told them all, “If possible, I would be here with only you forever. But we need currency for famous discothèques, yes? I am doing something I hate for you! This is what it means to be in love.” But, in truth, that was not the truth. I was electrified to go.
A few days before the hero was to arrive, I inquired my father if I could go forth to [REDACTED] when I made to graduate from university. “No,” he said. “But I want to,” I informed him. “I do not care what you want,” he said, and that is usually the end of the conversation, but it was not this time. “Why?” I asked. “If you want to know why,” he said, unclosing the refrigerator, “it is because your great-grandfather was from Odessa, and your grandfather was from Odessa, and your father, me, was from Odessa, and your boys will be from Odessa.” “But what if I want my boys to grow up someplace superior, with superior things, and more things?” I asked. My father excavated three pieces of ice from the refrigerator, closed the refrigerator, and punched me. “Put these on your face,” he said, “so you do not look terrible and manufacture disasters in Lvov.” This was the end of the conversation.

It was agreed that my grandfather and I would go forth to Lvov at midnight of 1 July. This would present us with fifteen hours. It was agreed that my grandfather would wait with patience in the car at the Lvov train station, while I waited on the tracks for the hero, holding a sign that my father had given me: “Jon-fen!” The drive with my grandfather was not made easier by Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., whom my grandfather required to bring along. “You are being a fool,” my father informed him. “I need her to help me see the road,” my grandfather said, pointing his finger at his eyes. “I am blind.” “You are not blind, and you are not bringing the bitch. It is not professional for the bitch to go along.” “It is either I go with the bitch, or I do not go.” My father was in a position. Not like the Latvian Home Stretch, but like amid a rock and a rigid place, which is, in truth, somewhat similar to the Latvian Home Stretch.
Notwithstanding that we had a deranged bitch in the car, the drive was also rigid because the car is so much shit that it would not travel any faster than as fast as I could run, which is sixty kilometres per the hour. Many cars passed us, which made me feel second-rate, especially when the cars were heavy with families, and when they were bicycles. My grandfather and I did not say words pending the drive, which is not abnormal, because we have never said multitudinous words. I made efforts not to spleen him, but did sometimes. For one example, I forgot to examine the map, and we missed our entrance to the superway: “Do not become very spleened,” I said, “but I made a miniature error with the map.” My grandfather punched the stop pedal, and my face became sociable with the front window. He did not say anything for the major of a minute. “Did I ask you to drive the car?” he asked. “No,” I said. “Did I ask you to prepare me breakfast while you roost there?” he asked. “No,” I said. “Did I ask you to invent a new kind of wheel?” he asked. “No,” I said. “How many things did I ask you to do?” he asked. “Merely one,” I said, and I knew that he would yell at me for some durable time, and perhaps even punch me. But he did not. If you want to know what he did, he rotated the car around, and we drove back to where I fashioned the error. Twenty minutes it captured. “If you blunder again,” my grandfather said, when we arrived at the location, “I will stop the car and you will get out with a foot in the backside. It will be my foot. It will be your backside. Is this a thing you understand?”
We arrived in Lvov in only eleven hours, but the train station was rigid to find, and we became lost many times. “I hate Lvov,” my grandfather said. Lvov is a big, impressive city, but not like Odessa. Odessa is very beautiful, with many famous beaches where girls are lying on their backs and announcing their first-rate bosoms. Lvov is a city like [REDACTED] in [REDACTED]. It has very tall buildings, and comprehensive streets, and many cellular phones. I have never witnessed a place fashioned of so much concrete. But Lvov is not very impressive from inside the train station. This is where I loitered for the hero for more than four hours. I was spleened to have to loiter there with nothing to do, without even a hi-fi, and when the hero’s train finally arrived, both of my legs were needles and nails from being an upright person for such a duration. I would have roosted, but the floor was very dirty, and I wore my peerless bluejeans to impress the hero. I did not know what the hero’s appearance would be, and he did not know how tall and aristocratic I would appear. This was something we made much repartee about after. He was very nervous, he said. He made shit of a brick. I said to him that I also made shit of a brick, but it was not that I would not recognize him. An 556e6974656420537461746573n in [REDACTED] is flaccid to recognize. I made shit of a brick because I desired to show him that I, too, could be an 556e6974656420537461746573n.
I held the sign with his name and looked into the eyes of every person that walked past. I was trying to select him. The one with the satchel? No. The one with the red hairs? No. When I found the hero, I was very flabbergasted by his appearance. This is an 556e6974656420537461746573n? I thought. He was severely short. He wore spectacles and had diminutive hairs which rested on his head like a shapka. He did not appear like the 556e6974656420537461746573ns I had witnessed in magazines, with yellow hairs and muscles. In truth, he did not look like anything special at all.
He must have witnessed the sign I was holding, because he punched me on the shoulder and said, “Alex?” I told him yes. “You’re my translator, right?” I asked him to manufacture brakes, because I could not fathom him. He spoke very rapidly; and in truth I was making a brick wall of shits. “Lesson one. Hello. How are you doing this day?” “What?” “Lesson two. Is not the weather full of delight?” “You’re my translator,” he said, “yes?” “Yes,” I said presenting him my hand. “I am Alexander Perchov. I am your humble translator.” “It would not be nice to beat you,” he said. “What?” I said. “I said,” he said, “it would not be nice to beat you.” “Oh yes,” I laughed, “it would not be nice to beat you also. I implore you to forgive my speaking of English. I am not so premium with it.” “Jonathan Safran Foer,” he said, and presented me his hand. “I am Alex,” I said. “I know,” he said. “Did someone hit you?” He examined at my right eye. “It was nice for my father to beat me,” I said. I took his bags from him, and we went forth to the car.
“Your train ride appeased you?” I asked. “Oh, God,” he said, “twenty-six hours, fucking unbelievable.” This girl Unbelievable must be very majestic, I thought. “You were able to Z Z Z Z Z?” I asked. “What?” “Did you manufacture any Zs? “I don’t understand.” “Repose.” “What?” “Did you repose?” “Oh. No” he said, “didn’t repose at all.” “And the guards at the border?” “It was nothing,” he said. “I’ve heard so much about them, that they would, you know, give me a hard time. But they came in, checked my passport, and didn’t bother me at all.” “What?” I asked. “I had heard it might be a problem, but it wasn’t a problem.” “You had heard about them?” “Oh yeah, I was making shit of a brick.” In truth, I was flabbergasted that the hero did not have any tribulations with the border guards. They have an unsavory habit for taking things without asking. I have also been informed stories of travellers who must present currency to the guards in order to receive their documents in return. For 556e6974656420537461746573ns, it is best if the guard is in love with [REDACTED], and wants to overawe the 556e6974656420537461746573n by being a premium guard. This kind of guard thinks that he will encounter the 556e6974656420537461746573n again one day in [REDACTED], and that the 556e6974656420537461746573n will offer to take him to a Chicago Bulls game, and buy him bluejeans and delicate toilet paper. The other kind of guard is also in love with [REDACTED], but he will hate the 556e6974656420537461746573n for being an 556e6974656420537461746573n. This is worst. This guard knows he will never go to [REDACTED] or meet the 556e6974656420537461746573n again. He will burgle the 556e6974656420537461746573n, and spleen the 556e6974656420537461746573n, only to demonstrate that he can. My father told me this, and I am certain that it is faithful.

When we arrived at the car, my grandfather was waiting with patience as my father had ordered him to. He was very patient. He was snoring. He was snoring with such volume that the hero and I could hear him even though the windows were elevated. “This is our driver,” I said. I observed distress in the smile of our hero. “Is he O.K.?” he asked. “With certainty,” I said. “But I must tell you, I am very familiar with this driver. He is my grandfather.” At this moment, Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., made herself evident, because she jumped up from the back seat and barked in volumes. “Jesus Christ!” the hero said with terror, and he moved distant from the car. “Do not be distressed,” I informed him as Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., punched her head against the window. “That is only the driver’s seeing-eye bitch. She is deranged,” I explained, “but so so playful.”
“Grandfather,” I said. “Grandfather, he is here.” I was able to move my grandfather from his repose. If you want to know how; I fastened his nose with my fingers so that he could not breathe. He did not know where he was. “Anna?” he asked. That was the name of my grandmother. “No, Grandfather,” I said, “it is me. Alex.” He was very shamed. I could perceive this because he rotated his face away from me. “We should go forth to Lutsk,” I suggested, “as Father ordered.” “What?” the hero inquired. “I told him that we should go forth to Lutsk” “Yes, Lutsk. That’s where I was told we would go. And from there to Trachimbrod, my grandfather’s village.” “Where’s the dog going to be?” the hero inquired. “What?” “Where’s . . . the . . . dog . . . going . . . to . . . be?” “I do not understand.” “I’m afraid of dogs,” he said. “I’ve had some bad experiences with them.” I told this to my grandfather, who was still half of himself in repose. “No one is afraid of dogs,” he said. “My grandfather informs me that no one is afraid of dogs.” The hero moved his shirt up to exhibit me the remains of a wound. “That’s from a dog bite,” he said. “What is?” “That.” “What?” “This thing.” “What thing?” “Here. It looks like two intersecting lines.” “I don’t see it.” “Right here,” he said, and I said, “Oh yes,” although in truth I still could not witness a thing. “So?” “So I’m afraid of dogs.” I clutched the situation now. “Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., must roost in the front with us,” I told my grandfather. “Get in the fucking car,” he said, having misplaced all of the patience that he had while reposing. “The bitch and the 556e6974656420537461746573n will share the back seat. It is vast enough for both of them.” I did not mention how the back seat was not vast enough for even one of them.
Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., had made her mouth with blood from masticating her own tail. Next she converted her attention to trying to lick clean the hero’s spectacles. “Can you please get this dog away from me,” the hero said, making his body into a ball. “Please. I really don’t like dogs.” “She is only making games with you,” I told him when she put her body on top of his and kicked him with her back legs. “It signifies that she likes you.” I will now mention that Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., is very often sociable with her new friends, but I had never witnessed a thing like this. I conjectured that she was in love with the hero. “Are you donning cologne?” I asked. “What?” “Are you donning any cologne?” He rotated his body so that his face was in the seat, away from the bitch. “Maybe a little,” he said, defending the back of his head with his hands. “Because she loves cologne. It makes her sexually stimulated.” “Great.” “She is trying to sex you. This is a good sign. It signifies that she will not bite.” “Help!” he said, as Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., rotated to do a sixty-nine. “He does not like her,” I told my grandfather. “Yes, he does,” he said.
I do not think there was a person in the car that was surprised when we became lost amid the Lvov train station and the superway to Lutsk. “I hate Lvov,” my grandfather rotated to tell the hero. “What’s he saying?” the hero asked me. “He said it will not be long,” I told him, which was a befitting lie. “Long until what?” the hero asked. “I hate Lvov, I hate Lutsk, I hate the Jew in the back seat of this car that I hate,” my grandfather said. “You are not making this any cinchier,” I said. “What?” the hero asked. “He says it will not be long until we get to Lutsk,” I said.
It captured five very long hours. If you want to know why, it is because my grandfather is my grandfather first and a driver second. He made us lost often and became on his nerves. I had to translate his anger into useful information for the hero. “Fuck,” my grandfather said. “He says if you look at the statues, you can see that some no longer endure. Those are where Communist statues used to be.” “Fucking fuck, fuck!” my grandfather shouted. “Oh,” I said, “he wants you to know that that building, that building, and that building, are all important.” “Why?” the hero inquired. “Fuck!” my grandfather said. “He cannot remember,” I said.
“Could you turn on some air-conditioning?” the hero commanded. I was humiliated to the highest degree possible. “This car does not have air-conditioning,” I said. “What?” “I am apologetic,” I said. “Well, can we roll down the windows? It’s really hot in here, and it smells like something died.” “Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., will jump out.” “Who?” “The bitch. Her name is Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr.” “Is that a joke?” “No, she will truly go forth from the car.” “No, his name.” “Her name,” I rectified him, because I am first-rate with pronouns. “Tell him to Velcro his lips together,” my grandfather said. “He says that the bitch was named for his favorite singer, who was Sammy Davis, Jr.” “A Jew,” the hero said. “What?” “Sammy Davis, Jr., was a Jew.” “This is not possible,” I said. “A convert. He found the Jewish God or something.” I told this to my grandfather. “Sammy Davis, Jr., was not a Jew!” he said, more on his nerves than I would have conjectured. “He was the Negro of the Rat Pack!” “But the 556e6974656420537461746573n is certain of it.” “The Music Man?” A Jew?” “He is certain.” “Dean Martin, Jr.!” my grandfather hollered to the back seat. “Get up here! Get away from the 556e6974656420537461746573n!”
It was pending this five-hour car drive from the Lvov train station to Lutsk that the hero explained to me why he came to [REDACTED]. He excavated several items from his bag. First he exhibited me a photograph. It was yellow and folded and had many pieces of affixative affixing it together. “See this?” he said. “This here is my grandfather.” He pointed to a young man, who I am implored to say appeared very much like the hero. “This was taken during the war.” “From whom?” “No, not taken like that. The photograph was made.” “I understand.” “Well, these people he is with are the family that saved him from the Nazis. He escaped the Nazi raid on Trachimbrod. Everyone else was killed. He lost a wife and a baby.” “And how will we find this family?” “We’re not really looking for the family, so much as this girl in the picture. She would be the only one still alive. If she is still alive.” He moved his finger along the face of a girl in the photograph. “I want to see Trachimbrod,” the hero said, “to see what it’s like, how my grandfather grew up, where I would be now if it weren’t for the war.” “You would be [REDACTED],” I said. “Like me.” “I guess.” Only not like me because you would be a farmer in an unimpressive village, and I live in Odessa, which is very much like [REDACTED].” “I want to see what it’s like now,” he said. “I don’t think there are any Jews left there, but maybe there are. The shtetls weren’t only Jews.” “The what?” “Shtetl. It’s like a village.” “Why don’t you merely dub it a village?” “It’s a Jewish word, like ‘schmuck.’ ” “What does it mean ‘schmuck’?” “A schmuck is someone who does something that you don’t agree with.” “Teach me another.” “Putz.” “What does that mean?” “It’s like ‘schmuck.’ ” “Teach me another.” “ ‘Schmendrick.’ ” “What does that mean?” “It’s also like ‘schmuck.’ ” “Do you know any words that are not like ‘schmuck’?” He pondered for a moment. “ ‘Shalom,’ ” he said, “but that’s Hebrew, not Yiddish. The Eskimos have four hundred words for snow, and the Jews have four hundred words for schmuck.”

“So we will sightsee the shtetl?” “I figured it would be a good place to begin our search.” “Search?” “For Augustine.” “Who is Augustine?” “The girl in the photograph.” It was very silent for a moment. “And then,” I said, “if we find her?” The hero was a pensive person. “I don’t know what then. I suppose I’d thank her.” “For saving your grandfather.” “Yes.”And I am querying, how do you know that her name is Augustine?” “I don’t really. On the back, see, here, is written a few words, in my grandfather’s writing, I think. It says, ‘This is me with Augustine, 1942.’ ” “Do you think he loved her?” “What?” “Because he remarks only her.” “So?” “So perhaps he loved her.” “It’s funny that you should think that. I’ve wondered. He was eighteen, and she was, what, about fifteen? He had just lost a wife and daughter when the Nazis raided his town. It seems so improbable that he could have loved her. But isn’t there something strange about the picture, the closeness between them, even though they’re not looking at each other? The way that they aren’t looking at each other. It’s very powerful, don’t you think?” “Yes.” “And that we should both think about the possibility of his loving her is also strange.” “How did you obtain this photograph?” I asked, holding it to the window. “My grandmother gave it to my mother two years ago, and she said that this was the family that had saved my grandfather from the Nazis.” “Why merely two years ago?” “She has her reasons.” “What are these reasons?” “I don’t know. We couldn’t ask her about it.” “Why not?” “She held onto the photograph for fifty-five years. If she wanted to tell us anything about it, she would have. I couldn’t even tell her I was coming to the [REDACTED].” “Why is this?” “Her memories of the [REDACTED] aren’t good. Her shtetl is only a few kilometres from Trachimbrod. But all of her family was killed, everyone—mother, father, sisters, grandparents.” “Did a [REDACTED] save her?” “No, she fled before the war.” “It surprises me that no one saved her family.” “It shouldn’t. The 556b7261696e65s were terrible to the Jews. At the beginning of the war, a lot of Jews wanted to go to the Nazis to be protected from the 556b7261696e65s.” “This is not true,” I said. “It is.” “I cannot believe what you are saying.” “Look it up in the history books. 556b7261696e65s were known for being terrible to the Jews. So were the Poles. Listen, I don’t mean to offend you. It’s got nothing to do with you. We’re talking about fifty years ago.” “It does not say this in history books,” I told the hero. “I don’t know what to say, then.” “Say that you are mistaken.” “I can’t.” “You must.” “
“Here are my maps,” he said, excavating a few pieces of paper from his bag. He pointed to one that was wet from Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr. Her tongue, I hoped. “This is Trachimbrod. This is Lutsk This is Kolky: It’s an old map. Some of the places we’re looking for aren’t on new maps. Here,” he said, and presented it to me. “You can see where we have to go. This is all I have, these maps and the photograph. It’s not much.” “I promise you that we will find this Augustine,” I said. I could perceive that this made the hero appeased. It also made me appeased. “Grandfather,” I said, and I explained everything that the hero had just uttered to me about Augustine, and the maps, and the hero’s grandmother. “Augustine,” my grandfather said, and pushed Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., onto me. He scrutinized at the photograph while I fastened the wheel. He put it close to his face, like he wanted to smell it, or touch it with his eyes. “Augustine.” “She is the one we are looking for,” I said. He moved his head to and fro. “We will find her,” he said. “I know,” I said. But I did not know, and nor did my grandfather.
When we reached Lutsk, it was already commencing darkness. “Let us eat,” my grandfather said. “You are hungry?” I asked the hero, who was again the sexual object of Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr. “Get it off of me,” he said. “Are you hungry?” I echoed. “Get the dog away from me, please.” I called to her, and, when she did not respond, I punched her in the face. She moved to her side of the back seat, because now she understanded what it means to be stupid with the wrong person. “I’m famished,” the hero said, lifting his head from amid his knees. “What?” “Yes, I’m hungry.” “You are hungry.” “Yes.” “Then we will eat,” I said. “Good,” the hero said. “One thing, though.” “What?” “You should know . . .” “Yes?” “I am a vegetarian.” “I do not understand.” “I don’t eat meat.” “Why not?” “I just don’t.” “He does not eat meat,” I told my grandfather. “Yes, he does,” he informed me. “Yes, you do,” I likewise informed the hero. “No, I don’t.” “Why not?” I inquired him again. “I just don’t. No meat.” “Pork?” “No.” “Steak?” “No.” “Chickens?” “No.” “Do you eat veal?” “Oh, God. Absolutely no veal.” “What about sausage?” “No sausage, either.” I told my grandfather this, and he presented me a very distressed look. “What is wrong with him?” he asked. “What is wrong with you?” I asked him. “It’s just the way I am,” he said. “Hamburger?” “No hamburger.” “Tongue?” “It’s very popular in [REDACTED] to be vegetarian. It’s very cool.” “What did he say is wrong with him?” my grandfather asked. “It is just the way he is,” I said.
“What do you mean he does not eat meat?” the waitress asked, and my grandfather put his head in his hands. “What is wrong with him?” she asked. “It is only the way that he is.” “He does not eat any meat at all?” she inquired me. “It is very cool to be like that in [REDACTED],” I told her. “Everyone is that way.” “Sausage?” she asked. “No sausage,” my grandfather said. “Maybe you could eat some meat,” I suggested to the hero, “because they do not have anything that is not meat.” “Don’t they have potatoes or something?” he asked. “Do you have potatoes?” I asked the waitress. “You only receive a potato with the meat,” she said. I told the hero. “Couldn’t I just get a plate of potatoes?” “What?” “Couldn’t I get two or three potatoes, without meat?” I asked the waitress, and she said she would go to the chef and inquire him. “Ask him if he eats liver,” my grandfather said.
The waitress returned and said, “Here is what I have to say. We can make concessions to give him two potatoes, but they are served with a piece of meat on the plate. The chef says that this cannot be negotiated. He will have to eat the meat.” When the food arrived, the hero asked for me to remove the meat off his plate. “I’d prefer not to touch it,” he said. This spleened me to the maximum. I took the meat off his plate, because I knew that is what my father would have desired me to do, and I did not utter a thing. “We will commence very early in the morning tomorrow,” my grandfather said. “Let me inspect at his maps.” I asked the hero for the maps. As he was reaching into his side bag, he kicked the table, which made his plate move. One of the potatoes descended to the floor. When it hit the floor it made a sound. Plomp. It rolled over, and then was inert. My grandfather and I examined each other. I did not know what to do. “A terrible thing has occurred,” my grandfather said. The hero viewed the potato on the floor. It was a dirty floor. It was one of his two potatoes. “This is awful,” my grandfather said quietly, and moved his plate to the side. “Awful.” He was correct. The waitress returned to our table with the colas we ordered. “Here are . . .” she began, but then she witnessed the potato on the floor. She put the colas on our table, and walked away with warp speed. The hero was still witnessing the potato on the floor. He did not do anything. We remained silent, and witnessing the potato. Then my grandfather inserted his fork in the potato, picked it up from the floor, and put it on his plate. He cut it into four pieces, and gave one to Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., under the table, one to me, and one to the hero. He cut off a piece from his piece, and ate it. Then he looked at me. I did not want to, but I knew that I had to. To say that it was not delicious would be an overstatement. Then we looked at the hero. He looked at the floor, and then at his plate. He cut off a piece from his piece, and looked at it. He ate it and smiled at us. “Welcome to [REDACTED],” my grandfather said to him, and punched me on the back, which was a thing I relished very much. Then my grandfather started laughing. Then I started laughing. Then the hero started laughing. We laughed for a long time. Each of us was manufacturing tears at his eyes. It was not until much in the posterior that I understanded that each of us was laughing for a different reason, for our own reason, and that not one of those reasons had a thing to do with the potato. As for Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., she did not eat her piece of the potato.

The hero and I spoke very much at dinner, mostly about [REDACTED]. “Tell me about things that you have in [REDACTED],” I said. “What do you want to know about?” “You have many good schools for accounting in [REDACTED], yes?” “I guess, I don’t really know: I could find out for you when I get back.” “Thank you,” I said, because now I had a connection in [REDACTED], and was not alone. “What do you study?” I asked. “This and that.” “What does it mean this and that?” “I don’t know, just what it sounds like, some of this, and some of that.” “Why do you not inform me?” “Writing, things like that.” “It is a good career?” “What?” “Writing.” If you’re good at it, I suppose.” “Why do you want to write?” “I don’t know. I used to think it was what I was born to do.” “That is how I feel about accounting.” “You’re lucky. I don’t feel that way anymore.” “Now what do you feel like you were born to do?” “I don’t know: Maybe writing. But it sounds terrible to say it. Cheap.” “It sounds nor terrible nor cheap.” “I want to express myself.” “The same is faithful for me.” “I’m looking for my voice.” “It is in your mouth.” “The other voice. The voice that can’t be spoken.” “I understand this.” “I want to do something I’m not ashamed of,” he said. “Something you are proud of, yes?” “Not even. I just don’t want to be ashamed.” “If I may partake in a different theme: How much currency would an accountant receive in [REDACTED]?” “I’m not sure. A lot, I imagine, if he or she is good.” “She!” “Or he.” “Are there Negro accountants?” “There are African-556e6974656420537461746573n accountants. You don’t want to use that word, though, Alex.” “And homosexual accountants?” “There are homosexual everythings. There are homosexual garbage men.” “How much currency would a Negro homosexual accountant receive?” “You shouldn’t use that word.” “Which word?” “The one before homosexual.” “What?” “The N-word. Well, it’s not the N-word, but—” “Negro?” “Shhh!” “I dig Negroes.” “You really shouldn’t say that.” “But I dig them all the way. They are premium people.” “It’s that word, though. You shouldn’t say the N-word.” “Negro?” “Please.” “What’s wrong with Negroes?” “Shhh!” “How much does a cup of coffee cost in [REDACTED]?” “Oh, it depends. Maybe one dollar.” “One dollar! This is like giving it for free! In [REDACTED] one cup of coffee is five dollars!” “Oh, well, I didn’t mention cappuccinos. They can be as much as five or six dollars.” “Cappuccinos,” I said, elevating my hands above my head, “there is no maximum! What about the girls in [REDACTED]?” “What about them?” “They are very informal with their vaginas, yes?” “You hear about girls like that, but nobody I know has ever met one of them.” “Are you carnal very often?” “Are you?” “I inquired you. Are you?” “Are you?” “I inquired headmost. Are you?” “Not really.” “What do you intend by ‘not really’?” “I’m not a priest, but I’m not John Holmes, either.” “I know of this John Holmes.” I lifted my hands to my sides. “With the premium penis.” “That’s the one,” he said, and laughed. I made him laugh with my funny. “In [REDACTED], everyone has a penis like that.” He laughed again. “Even the women?” he asked. “You made a funny?” I asked. “Yes,” he said. So I laughed. “Do you think the women in [REDACTED] are first-rate?” “I haven’t seen many since I’ve been here.” “Do you have women like this in [REDACTED]?” “There’s at least one of everything in [REDACTED].” “Do you have many motorcycles in [REDACTED]?” “Of course.” “And fax machines?” “Yes, but they’re very passé.” “What does it mean ‘passé’?” “They’re out of date. Paper is so tedious.” “Tedious?” “It makes you fatigued.” “I understand what you are telling me, and I harmonize. I would not ever use paper. It makes me a sleeping person. Do most young people have impressive cars in [REDACTED]? Lotus Esprit V8 twin turbos? DeLorean DMC-12s?” “I certainly don’t. I have a piece-of-shit Honda.” “It is brown?” “No, it’s an expression.” “How can your car be an expression?” “I have a car that is like a piece of shit. You know, it stinks like shit, and looks shitty.” “And if you are a good accountant, you could buy an impressive car?” “Absolutely.” “What kind of wife would a good accountant have?” “Who knows?” “Would she have rigid tits?” “I couldn’t say for sure.” “Probably, although?” “I guess.” “I dig this. I dig rigid tits.” “But there are also accountants who have ugly wives. That’s just the way it works.” “If John Holmes was a first-rate accountant, he could have any woman he would like for his wife, yes?” “Probably.” “My penis is very big.” “O.K.”
After dinner, we drove back to the hotel. It was an unimpressive hotel. When we unclosed the door to the hero’s room, I could perceive that he was distressed. “It’s fine,” he said, because he could perceive that I could perceive that he was distressed. “Really, it’s just for sleeping.” “You do not have hotels like this in [REDACTED]!” I made a funny. “No,” he said, and he was laughing. We were like friends. “Make sure you secure the door,” I told him. “I do not want to make you a petrified person, but there are many dangerous people who want to take things without asking from 556e6974656420537461746573ns, and also kidnap them. Good night.” The hero laughed again, but he laughed because he did not know that I was very serious.
“Come on Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr.,” my grandfather called to the bitch, but she would not leave the hero’s door. “Come on!” he bellowed, but she would not dislodge. I tried to sing to her, which she relishes, especially when I sing “Billie Jean Is Not My Lover,” by Michael Jackson. But Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., only pushed her head against the door to the hero’s room. I knocked on the door, and the hero had a toothbrush in his mouth. “Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., will manufacture Zs with you this evening,” I told him, although I knew that it would not be successful. “No,” he said, and that was all. “She will not depart from your door,” I told him. “Then let her sleep in the hall.” “But she is compassionate,” I said. “Listen,” the hero said. “If she needs to sleep in the room, I’ll be happy to sleep in the hall. But if I’m in the room, I’m alone in the room.” “Perhaps you could both sleep in the hall,” I suggested.
After we left the hero and the bitch to repose—hero in room, bitch in hall—my grandfather and I went downstairs to the hotel bar for drinks of vodka. It was my grandfather’s notion. In truth, I was a petite amount terrified of being alone with him. “He is a good boy,” my grandfather said. I could not perceive if he was inquiring me, or tutoring me. “He seems good,” I said. “We should try inflexibly to help him.” “We should,” I said. “I would like very much to find Augustine,” he said. “So would I.” That was all the talking for the night. We had three vodkas each and watched the weather report on the television at the bar, and then we went up to our room. “I will repose on the bed, and you will repose on the floor,” my grandfather said. “Of course,” I said. We had spent the day thinking what the hero’s grandfather did during the war. That night—my grandfather on the bed, me on the floor—there was a new question: what did my grandfather do during the war?

The alarm made a noise at six of the morning. “Go get the Jew,” my grandfather said. “I will loiter downstairs.” “[REDACTED]?” I asked. “Oh,” he said, “let us descend to the restaurant and eat breakfast. Then you will get the Jew.” “What about his breakfast?” “They will not have anything without meat, so we should not make him an uncomfortable person.” “You are smart,” I told him. When we roosted at the restaurant my grandfather said, “Eat very much. It will be a long day; and who could be certain when we will eat next?” For this reason we ordered three breakfasts for the two of us, and ate very much sausage, which is a delicious food. “Get the Jew,” my grandfather said, when we had finished. “I will loiter with patience in the car.”
I am certain that the hero was not reposing, because before I could punch for the second time he unclosed the door. He was already in clothing. “Listen,” he said, “what do you say we have a little breakfast?” “What?” “[REDACTED],” he said, putting his hands on his stomach. “No,” I said, “I think it is superior if we commence the search. We want to search as much as possible while light still exists.” “But it’s only six-thirty.” “Yes, but it will not be six-thirty forever. Look,” I said, and pointed to my watch, which is a Rolex from [REDACTED], “it is already six-thirty-one. We are misplacing time.” “Maybe a little something?” he said. “What?” “I’m really hungry.” “This cannot be negotiated. I think it is best—” “We have a minute, or two. What’s that on your breath?” “You will have one cappuccino in the restaurant downstairs, and that will be the end of the conversation.” “What do you mean that’s the end—” I put my fingers on my lips. This signified “SHUT UP!”
“Back for more breakfast?” the waitress asked. “She says good morning, would you like a cappuccino?” “Oh,” he said. “Tell her yes. And maybe some bread, or something.” “He is an 556e6974656420537461746573n,” I said. “I know,” she said. “I can see.” But he does not eat meat, so just give him a cappuccino.” “What are you telling her?” “I told her not to make it too watery:” “Good. I hate it when it’s watery.” “So just one cappuccino will be adequate,” I told the waitress, who was a very beautiful girl with the most breasts I had ever seen. “Would you like to go to a famous discothèque with me tonight?” I added. “Will you bring the 556e6974656420537461746573n?” she asked. This spleened me. “He is a Jew,” I said, and I know that I should not have uttered that, but I was beginning to feel very awful about myself The problem is that I felt more awful after uttering it. “Oh,” she said. “I have never seen a Jew before. Can I see his horns?” I told her to attend to her own affairs and merely bring a cappuccino for the Jew and two more orders of sausage for the bitch, because who could be certain when she would eat again.
“How do we get there?” my grandfather inquired me when the hero and I entered the car. “I do not know,” I said. “Inquire Jon-fen,” he ordered, so I did. “I don’t know,” he said. “He does not know.” “What do you mean he does not know? We are in the car. We are primed to go forth on our journey. How can he not know?” His voice was now with volume, and it frightened Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., making her bark. “What do you mean you do not know?” “I told you everything I know. I thought one of you was supposed to be a certified Heritage guide.” My grandfather punched the car’s horn, and it made a sound: Honk. “My grandfather is certified!” I informed him, which was faithful, although he was certified to operate an automobile, not find lost history. Honk. “Please!” I said at my grandfather. “Please! You are making this impossible!” Honk. Bark. “Shut up,” he said, “and shut the Jew up!” Bark. “You’re sure he’s certified?” “Of course,” I said. Honk. “I would not deceive.” Bark. “Do something,” I told my grandfather. Honk. “Not that!” I said with volume.

My grandfather drove us to a petrol store that we had passed on the way to the hotel the night yore. A man came to the window. “Yes?” the man asked. “We are looking for Trachimbrod,” my grandfather said. “We do not have any,” the man said. “It is a place. We are trying to find it.” The man turned to a group of men standing in front of the store. “Do we have anything called ‘trachimbrod’?” They all elevated their shoulders, and continued to talk to themselves. “Apologies,” he said, “we do not have any.” “Present me the map,” I said to the hero. He investigated his bag. “It’s gone. I think Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., ate it.” “Impossible!” I said, although I knew that it was possible. I told the hero to mention the petrol man some of the other names of towns, and perhaps one would sound informal. “Kolky,” the hero said, “Kivertsi, Sokeretchye . . .” “Yes, yes,” the man said, “I have heard of these towns.” “And you could direct us to them?” I asked. “Of course. They are very proximal. Maybe thirty kilometres distant. No more. Merely travel north on the superway, and then east through the farm lands.” “Here,” the hero said. He was holding a package of Marlboro cigarettes at the petrol man. “What the hell is he doing?” my grandfather inquired. “What the hell is he doing?” the petrol man inquired. “What the hell are you doing?” I inquired. “For his help,” he said. “I read in a guidebook that it’s hard to get Marlboro cigarettes here, and that you should bring several packs with you wherever you go, and give them as tips.” “What is a tip?” “It’s something you give someone in exchange for help.” “You are informed that you will be paying for this trip with currency, yes?” “No, not like that,” he said, “tips are for small things, like directions. “He does not eat meat,” my grandfather told the petrol man.
It was already seven-ten when we were driving again. I must confess that it was a beautiful day, with much light of the sun. “It is beautiful, yes?” I said to the hero. “What?” “The day. It is a beautiful day.” “Yes,” he said. “It’s absolutely beautiful.” This made me proud, and I told my grandfather, and he smiled. “Inform him about Odessa,” my grandfather said. “Inform him how beautiful it is there.” “In Odessa,” I said to the hero, “it is more beautiful than even this. You have never witnessed a thing similar to it.” “Inform him,” my grandfather said, “that Odessa is the most wonderful place to become in love, and also to make a family.” “Do you think this is true?” I inquired. “Of course,” he said. “I know that it is true.” So I informed the hero. “Odessa,” I said, “is the most wonderful place to become in love, and also to make a family.” “Have you ever fallen in love?” he inquired me, which seemed like such a queer inquiry, so I returned it to him. “Have you?” “I don’t know,” he said. “Nor I,” I said. “I do not think so, either.” “I’ve been close to love.” “Yes.” “Really close, like almost there.” “Almost.” “But never, I don’t think.” “No.” “Maybe I should go to Odessa,” he said. “I could fall in love.” We both laughed. “Have you ever had a girlfriend?” I asked the hero. “Have you?” “I am inquiring you.” “I sort of have,” he said. “What do you signify with ‘sort of’?” “Nothing formal, really: Not a girlfriend girlfriend, really. I’ve dated, I guess. I don’t want to be formal.” “It is the same state of affairs with me,” I said. “I also do not want to be formal. I do not want to be handcuffed to only one girl.” “Exactly,” he said. “I mean, I’ve fooled around with girls.” “Of course,” I said. “Blow jobs.” “Yes, of course.” “But once you get a girlfriend, well, you know.” “I know very well.”

“Can I view Augustine again?” I asked the hero. He presented me the photograph. I observed it while he observed the beautiful day: Augustine had short hairs. They did not arrive at her shoulders. They were thin hairs. I did not need to touch them to be certain. “Look at those fields,” the hero said, with his finger outside of the car. “They’re so green.” “Tell him that the land is premium for farming.” “My grandfather desires me to tell you that the land is very premium for farming.” “Look at those people working in the fields,” the hero said. “Some of those women must be sixty, or even seventy.” I inquired my grandfather about this. “It is not so unusual,” he said. “In the fields, you toil until you are not able to toil. My father died in the fields.” “Did your mother work in the fields?” “She was working with him when he died.” “What is he saying?” the hero inquired, which prohibited my grandfather from continuing. It was the first occasion that I had ever heard my grandfather speak of his parents, and I wanted to know very much more of them. What did they do during the war? Who did they save? But I felt that it was a common decency for me to be silent on the matter. He would speak when he needed to speak. So I did what the hero and bitch did, which was look out the window. I do not know how much time tumbled, but a lot of time tumbled. “It would be reasonable to inquire someone how to get to Trachimbrod,” my grandfather said. “I do not think that we are more than ten kilometres distant.” “This seems reasonable,” I said, because I did not know what to say: “Of course it seems reasonable,” he said. “It is reasonable.”
We moved the car to the side of the road. “Go inquire someone,” my grandfather said. “And bring the Jew with you.” “Come,” I informed the hero. “Where?” I pointed at a herd of men in the field who were smoking. “You want me to go with you?” “Of course,” I said, because I desired the hero to feel that he was included in every aspect of the voyage. But, in truth, I was also afraid of the men in the field. I had never talked to people like that, poor farming people, and, similar to most people from Odessa, I speak a fusion of Russian and [REDACTED], and they spoke only [REDACTED], and people who speak only [REDACTED] sometimes hate people who speak a fusion of Russian and [REDACTED], because very often people who speak a fusion of Russian and [REDACTED] think they are superior to people who speak only [REDACTED]. We think this because we are superior, but that is for another story. I commanded the hero not to speak, because at times people who speak [REDACTED] who hate people who speak a fusion of Russian and [REDACTED] also hate people who speak English. It is for the selfsame reason that I brought Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr., with us. “Why?” the hero inquired. “Why what?” “Why can’t I talk?” “It distresses some people greatly to hear English. We will have a more flaccid time procuring assistance if you keep your lips together.” “What?” “Shut up.”
“I have never heard of it,” said one of the men, with his cigarette at the side of his mouth. “Nor have I,” said another, and they exhibited their backs. “Thank you,” I said. I rotated my head to inform the hero that they did not know. “Maybe you’ve seen this woman,” the hero said, taking out the photograph of Augustine. “Put that back,” I said. “What are you intending here?” one of the men inquired, and cast his cigarette to the ground. “What did he say?” the hero asked. “We are searching for the town Trachimbrod,” I informed them, and I could perceive that I was not selling like hotcakes. “I told you, there is no place Trachimbrod.” “So stop bothering us,” one of the other men said. “Do you want a Marlboro cigarette?” I proposed, because I could not design anything else. “Get out of here,” one of the men said. “Go back to [REDACTED].” “I am from Odessa,” I said, and this made them laugh with very much violence. “Then go back to Odessa.” “Can they help us?” the hero inquired. “Do they know anything?” “Come,” I said, and we walked back to the car. I was humbled to the maximum. “Come on, Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr.!” But she would not come, even though the smoking men harassed her. There was merely one option remaining: “Billy Jean is not my lover. She’s just a girl, who claims that I am the one.” The maximum of humbling was made maximumer.
“What in hell were you doing uttering English!” I said. “I commanded you not to speak English! You understanded me, yes!” “Yes.” “Then why did you speak English?” “I don’t know!” “You don’t know! Did I ask you to prepare breakfast?” “What?” “Did I ask you to invent a new kind of wheel?” “I don’t—” “I asked you to do merely one thing, and you made a disaster of it!” “I just thought it would be helpful.” “But it was not helpful. You contaminated everything!” “Sorry, I just thought, the picture—” “I will do the thinking. You will do the silence.” “I’m sorry.” “I am the one who is sorry! I am sorry that I brought you with me on this journey!”
I was very shamed by the manner of how the men spoke to me, and I did not want to inform my grandfather of what occurred, because I knew that it would shame him also. But when we returned to the car, I realized that I did not have to inform him a thing. If you want to know why, it is because I first had to move him from his repose. “Grandfather,” I said, touching his arm. “Grandfather.” “Anna?” “No, Grandfather. It is me, Sasha.” “I was dreaming,” he said. “They did not know where Trachimbrod is.” “Well, enter the car,” he said. “We will persevere to drive, and search for another person to inquire.”
We ferreted many other people to inquire, but in truth, every person regarded us in the same manner. “Go away,” an old man uttered. “Why now?” a woman in a yellow dress inquired. Not one of them knew where Trachimbrod was, and not one of them had ever heard of it, but all of them became spleened or silent when I inquired. We persevered to drive, now unto subordinate roads, lacking any markings. The houses were less proximal to one another, and it was an abnormal thing to see anyone at all. “I have lived here my whole life,” one old man said, without amputating himself from his seat under a tree, “and I can inform you that there is no place called Trachimbrod.” Another old man, who was escorting a cow across the dirt road, said, “You should stop searching now. I can promise you that you will not find anything.” I did not tell this to the hero. Perhaps this is because I am a good person. Perhaps it is because I am a bad one. I told him that each person told us to drive more, and that if we drove more we would discover some person who knew where Trachimbrod was. We would drive until we found Trachimbrod, and drive until we found Augustine. So we drove more, because we were severely lost, and because we did not know what else to do.

It was already the center of the day. “What are we going to do?” my grandfather inquired me. “We have been driving for six hours, and we are no more proximal than six hours yore.” “This is a very rigid situation,” I said. We persevered to drive. We drove more, farther and farther in the same circles. The car became fixed in the ground many times, and the hero and I had to get out to impel it. “It’s not easy,” the hero said. “No, it is not,” I yielded. “But I guess we should keep driving. Don’t you think? If that’s what people have been telling us to do?” We drove beyond many of the towns that the hero named to the petrol man. Kolky. Sokeretchy. Kivertsi. But there were approximately no people anywhere, and, when there was a person, the person could not help us. “Go away.” “There is no Trachimbrod here.” “You are lost.” It was seeming as if we were in the wrong country, or the wrong century, or as if Trachimbrod had disappeared, and so had the memory of it.
We drove more, and then drove more. We followed roads that we had already followed, we witnessed parts of the land that we had already witnessed. We drove in circles, and both my grandfather and I were desiring that the hero was not aware of this. I remembered when I was a boy and my father would punch me, and after he would say, “It does not hurt. It does not hurt.” And the more he would utter it, the more it was faithful. I believed him, in some measure because he was my father, and in some measure because I, too, did not want it to hurt. This is how I felt with the hero as we persevered to drive. It was as if I were uttering to him, “We will find her. We will find her.” I was deceiving him, and I am certain that he desired to be deceived.
“There,” my grandfather said, as darkness was verging, and pointed his finger at a person roosting on the steps of a very diminutive house. It was the first person that we had viewed in many minutes. He arrested the car. “Go.” Because I did not know what else to say; I said, “O.K.” I said to the hero, “Come!” There was no rejoinder. “Come,” I said, and rotated. The hero was manufacturing Zs, and so was Sammy Davis, Jr., Jr. There is no necessity for me to move them from repose, I said to my brain. I took with me the photograph of Augustine, and was very circumspect not to disturb them as I closed the car’s door.
The house was white wood that was falling off of itself. As I walked more proximal, I could perceive that it was a woman roosting on the steps. She was very aged, and peeling the skin off of corn. “Leniency;” I said, while I was still a petite amount distant. I said this so that I would not make her a terrified person. “I have a query for you.” She was donning a white shirt and a white dress, but they were covered with dirt and places where liquids had dried. I could perceive that she was a very poor woman. All of the people in the small towns are very poor, but she was more poor. This was clearcut because of how svelte she was, and how broken all of her belongings were.
She smiled as I became proximal to her, and I could see that she did not have any teeth. Her hairs were white, her skin had brown marks, and her eyes were blue. She was not so much of a woman, and what I signify here is that she was very petite, and appeared as if she could be obliterated with one finger. “Leniency,” I said, “I do not want to pester you—” “How could anything pester me on such a beautiful evening?” “Yes, it is beautiful.” “Where are you from?” she asked. This shamed me. I rotated over in my head what to manufacture. “Odessa.” She put down one piece of corn and picked up another. “I have never been to Odessa,” she said, and moved hairs that were in front of her face to behind her ear. It was not until this moment that I perceived how her hairs were as long as her. “You must go there,” I said. “I know. I know I must. I am sure there are many things that I must do.” “And many things that you must not do also.” I was trying to make her a sedate person, and I accomplished. She laughed. “You are a sweet boy.” “Have you ever heard of a town dubbed Trachimbrod?” I inquired. “I was informed that someone proximal to here would know of it.” She put her corn on her lap. “What?” “I do not want to pester you, but have you ever heard of a town dubbed Trachimbrod?” “No,” she said, picking up her corn and removing its skin. “I have never heard of that.” “I am sorry to have confiscated your time,” I said. “Have a good day.” She presented me with a sad smile.
I commenced to perambulate away, but I felt so awful. What would I inform the hero when he was no longer manufacturing Zs? What would I inform my grandfather? For how long could we fail until we surrendered? Darkness was near, and I felt as if all the weight was residing on me. There are only so many times that you can utter “It does not hurt” before that begins to hurt even more than the hurt. Not-truths hung in front of me like fruit. Which could I pick for the hero? Which could I pick for my grandfather? Which for myself? Then I remembered that I had the photograph of Augustine, and, although I do not know what it was that coerced me to do it, I rotated back around and exhibited the photograph to the woman. “Have you ever witnessed anyone in this photograph?”
She examined it for several moments. “No.”
I do not know why; but I inquired again. “Have you ever witnessed anyone in this photograph?”
“No,” she said again, although this second no did not seem like a parrot, but like a different variety of “no.”
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in this photograph?” I inquired, and this time I held it very proximal to her face.
“No,” she said again, and this seemed like a third variety of “no.”
I put the photograph in her hands. “Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?”
“No,” she said, but in her “no” I was certain that I could hear, Please persevere. Inquire me again.
So I did. “Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?”
She moved her thumbs over the faces, as if she were attempting to erase them. “No.”
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?”
“No,” she said, and she put the photograph on her lap.
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?” I inquired.
“No,” she said, still examining it, but only from the angles of her eyes.
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?” “No.”
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?” “No,” she said. “No.”
I saw a tear descend to her white dress.
“Have you ever witnessed anyone in the photograph?” I inquired, and I felt cruel, I felt like an awful person, but I was certain that I was performing the right thing.
“No,” she said, “I have not. They all look like strangers.”
Darkness was amid us. I perilled everything. “Has anyone in this photograph ever witnessed you?”
“I have been waiting for you for so long.”
I pointed to the car. “We are searching for Trachimbrod.”
“Oh,” she said, and she released a river of tears. “You are here. I am it.”  

