 HUNGRY  SELF  BY  REBECCA  CURTIS  I'm  sorry,Isaid,  I'm  sorry.  I  watched  her  face  go  through  a  set  of  &quot;If  A,  then  B;  if  B,  then  C;  A,  therefore  C,&quot;  after  which  she  said,  Hi,  how  are  you,  as  if  to  say,  Is  everything  O.K.  now?  with  an  element  of  I  am  neither  your  mother  nor  your  relative  but  I  do  care  for  you  to  the  degree  that  my  highly  stretched  human  resources  allow,  and  I  said,  Good,  good,  to  mean  Everything  is  good,  your  efforts  were  successful,  and  please  feel  happy  about  the  energy  you  invested  in  me.  The  next  day  was  the  start  of  Bike  Week,  a  five-day  festival  during  which  a  hundred  thousand  bikers  would  arrive  and  celebrate  being  bikers  in  our  very  small  and  beautiful  town.  On  the  last  night  of  that  week,  I  would  have  four-  teen  tables  and  I  would  tell  them  their  food  was  almost  ready  but  that  would  be  a  lie,  since  I'd  mismatched  three  ta-  bles'  worth  of  orders  andnone  of  them  would  eat  sooner  than  an  hour  after  being  sat,  and  they  would  each  tip  me  nothing,  to  say,  You  are  worth  noth-  ing,  or  one  dollar,  to  say,  You  are  worth  crap;  except  for  those  people  who  were  nicest  and  least  likely  to  complain  and  whom  I  would  therefore  serve  last.  They  would  not  eat  for  anhour  and  a  half.  These  people  would  tip  me  a  twenty  and  I  would  wonder  at  their  foolishness  and  give  the  twenty  to  Ken  thecook,  who  sold  coke  in  the  basement,  and  who'd  been  shipped  in  by  Ngoc  from  4368696e61  and  housed  in  a  rat-shack  next  door.  He  knew  how  to  say  &quot;shitfucker&quot;  and  &quot;asslick&quot;  andhad  a  habit  of  wiping  his  dick  with  his  hands  then  not  wash-  ing  them  and  telling  me  about  it,  cha-  rades  style.  Ngoc  knew  about  this  but  couldn't  do  much.  Shewas  old  and  strange-  looking  and  dyed  her  hair  black  and  wore  rhinestone-studded  mauve  gowns  that  she  thought  added  elegance  to  the  general  atmosphere  of  the  restaurant.  The  restaurant  was  very  red  and  very  gold.  Ngoc  bussed  tables,  and  super-  vised  the  kitchen,  and  the  bar,  and  us,  and  at  night  I  watched  her  bending  over  the  counter  in  front,  adding  col-  umns  of  figures  without  a  calculator.  She  couldn't  control  the  cooks,  but  she  kept  them  on  because  they  were  il-  legal  and  worked  cheap.  All  of  the  cooks  were  wrinkled  and  small  and  had  perms;  once  a  month,  they  pitched  in  and  took  a  cab  downtown,  where  they  bought  hookers  and  sat  for  their  perms.  Ken  the  cook  cut  five  wide  lines  for  a  twenty  in  a  boxed-goods  room  behind  the  meat  rack  in  the  basement,  which  is  where  Ngoc  would  find  us,  and  Ngoc  would  be  in  an  intolerant  mood  that  night  because  the  same  bikers  who  came  every  year,  a  group  of  them,  fat  and  bearded  and  staggering  drunk,  had  stopped  her  in  the  lobby  and  chanted,  Ngoc,  Ngoc,  Ngoc,  give  usa  chink  hug,  Ngoc,  give  us  a  chink  hug,  and  Ngoc  had  had  to  totter  on  over  in  her  heels  and  her  Elvira  dress  and  scream,  So  good  to  see  you!  Sogood  to  see  you!  and  press  herselfagainst  each  one  of  their  enormous  bodies.  When  Ngoc  found  the  cook  and  me  doing  lines  in  the  base-  ment  she'd  have  some  things  to  say  to  us  in  Cantonese  and  then  some  things  to  say  to  us  in  English,  which  would  be  that  there  is  one  kind  of  trash  and  there  is  another  kind  of  trash  and  neither  kind  was  trash  that  she  wanted  in  her  Eating  Establishment.  But  this  shift  was  slow.  I'd  spent  most  of  it  putting  purple  tissue  umbrellas  in  drinks  and  asking  customers  what  they'd  seen  in  town  so  far  and  telling  them  where  they  might  want  to  go.  And,  even  though  they  did  not  want  and  had  not  ordered  dessert,  I'd  been  bringing  out  ten  fortune  cookies  on  an  egg-roll  plate  with  a  pile  of  pineap-  ple  chunks  topped  by  whipped  cream  and  my  specialty,  umbrella-lodged-in-  cherry;  because  I  remembered,  when  I  was  a  kid,  how  excited  I'd  been  when-  ever  we  went  out  to  eat  Chinese,  and  how  despite  the  fact  that  we  took  ten  minutes  to  study  the  menu  we  always  knew  exactly  what  we  would  order,  which  was  pork  fried  rice,  sweet-and-  sour  chicken,  egg  foo  yung,  and  beef  teriyaki,  none  of  which  were  really  Chi-  nese,  and  I  remembered  how  the  wait-  ress  would  bring  out,  for  the  finale,  a  plate  heaped  with  cherries  and  pineap-  ple  chunks  and  fortune  cookies,  and  once  my  sister's  cookie  had  said,  &quot;You  will  discover  great  wealth,&quot;  and  then  in  the  parking  lot  she  found  a  dime  and  for  years  after  that  I  waited  for  my  cookies  to  come  true.  The  cherries  and  umbrellas  came  from  Jud  the  bartender  and  Jud  did  not  like  my  taking  them,  but  he  let  me  because  he  was  short  and  missing  two  teeth  and  wanted  to  fuck  me.  He  had  a  boat  and  a  house  on  the  prome-  nade  andwas  one  of  those  people  who  sat  on  their  widow's  walk  on  bright  days  and  watched  the  tourists,  evaluating  their  stupidity  or  their  level  of  ugliness.  I'm  going  boating  this  week,  he'd  say.  Want  to  go  boating?  Next  week,  I'd  say,  72  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  2,  2001  and  he'd  say,  Remind  me.  He  looked  a  little  like  Don  Johnson,  some  people  had  told  him,  and  this  is  what  kept  him  happy,  I  think.  In  the  kitchen  I  found  towels  to  clean  up  the  tea.  My  ex-psychiatrist  was  my  ex-counsellor,  really,  ex-family  coun-  sellor,  one  in  a  long  line  of  psychiatrists  that  at  first  my  family,  and  then  just  I,  had  consulted.  She  was  a  fat  ugly  les-  bian.  Her  partner,  or  maybe  just  her  lover,  had  arrived  while  I  was  fetching  the  towels.  I  say  &quot;lover&quot;  because  they  seemed  to  be  on  a  date.  They  were  ner-  vous  with  happiness  and  had  elected  to  sit  next  to  each  other,  on  the  same  side  of  the  booth,  facing  one  of  the  restau-  rant's  decorative  highlights,  a  red-and-  gold  dragon  gleefully  humping  a  col-  umn.  I  figured  this  side-by-side  seating  to  be  an  announcement  of  love,  a  fuck-  you  to  the  world,  and  I  was  embarrassed  for  them,  and  for  myself,  to  be  serving  my  ex-psychiatrist  here  inthis  shitty  place,  and  for  her,  to  be  eating  here  in  this  shitty  place,  because  she  weighed  two  hundred  and  sixty  poundsand  there  was  nothing  on  our  menu  that  it  was  a  good  idea  for  her  to  eat.  She'd  never  told  me  what  she  weighed  but  I  knew  any-  way  because  I  was  an  excellent  evaluator  of  body  weight;  this  ability  was,  in  part,  why  three  years  ago  I  had  driven  weekly  to  her  horrible  office.  I  was  standing  with  my  waitress  notepad  at  my  chest.  The  boats  were  sliding  into  their  places  at  the  docks.  Johnny  was  looking  on  from  the  lobby,  to  make  sure  I  did  not  spill  any  more  tea,  and  I  thought  about  pleading  stom-  ach  ache  so  I  could  leaveearly  and  not  have  to  serve  dinner  to  my  ex-shrink,  but  that  would  have  sounded  as  ifI  had  my  period,  which  would  have  been  gross,  and  Johnny  liked  me  little  enough  already.  My  ex-psychiatrist  said,  This  is  my  friend  Angela.  Then  we  had  a  round  of  inquiry  and  solicitation  which  was  not  strictly  necessary  since  we  would  proba-  bly  not  see  each  other  again.  This  woman  had  sat  across  from  me  for  six  months  and  told  me  repeatedly  that  I  was  not  a  bad  person,  was  in  fact  a  good  person,  and  because  I  do  not  like  to  talk  and  managed  to  get  her  to  talk  instead,  she  told  me  that  people  had  been  unkind  to  her  all  her  life  and  that  she  had  suffered  great  sadness  and  once  tried  to  end  it  all  with  some  cooking  oil  and  a  match,but  ended  up  with  a  fist-size  patch  of  black-  ness  on  her  skull  and  soft  white  skin  grafts  on  her  calves,  and  that  she  was  now  dealing  withan  eating  disorder  herself,  which  was  obesity,  and  that  she  found  that  Harry's  Diet  Pretzels  were  a  wonderful  help  and  made  you  feel  full  and  at  peace,  as  if  you  did  not  need  anything  else,  and  she  gave  me  an  extra  bag  that  she  happened  to  have  in  _  her  purse  because  the  sadness  could  come  upon  you  at  any  time,  and  it  was  best  to  have  Harry's  Diet  Pretzels  with  you  when  it  did.  I  took  their  orders.  I  recommended  lo  mein.  I  said,  Everyone  likes  it.  I  did  not  say,  Everyone  likes  it  because  itis  noodles  in  oil,  and  you  will  like  it,  too.  They  ordered  lo  mein  and  Szechuan  grand  worbar,  a  fancy  chicken  thing  that  sizzles  over  a  blue  flame  on  an  iron  plate  in  front  of  the  customer,  which  I  normally  liked  toserve  because  it  guar-  anteed  a  good  tip.  I  did  not  want  a  good  tip.  I  wanted  a  shitty  tip.  I  wanted  a  shitty  tip  so  I  could  have  a  reason  for  hating  the  fat  ugly  lesbian,  a  reason  other  than  that  she  had  once  seen  me  gi  The  lover  was  polite  in  a  cold,  chal-  lenging  way.  I  said  Ngoc's  special  tea  was  shipped  straight  from  4368696e61  and  that  our  cook  was  famous  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  she  nodded  as  if  something  unpleasant  had  just  been  confirmed.  I  guessed  how  their  pre-soup  conversa-  tion  would  go.  Former  patient?  Yes.  Bad  one?  Yes.  Think  she's  better  now?  Probably  not.  I  hope  so.  She  means  well.  delivered  a  pineapple  plate  to  a  fam-  ily  of  seven  who  had  ordered  cheap  and  were  excited  to  see  it.  Johnny  was  waiting  for  me  in  the  kitchen,  leaning  against  the  industrial  tea  bins.  You  know  those  women?  I  had  a  tray  full  of  chicken  bones  and  half-eaten  egg  foo  yung  from  the  happy  family.  I  set  my  tray  on  the  wash  counter  and  removed  the  plates  and  started  slop-  ping  them  off  and  immediately  got  some  of  the  slop  on  my  shirt.  You  know  them?  he  repeated.  Nope.  What'd  they  order?  Lo  mein?  Yup.  He  took  the  tray  from  me  and  stashed  it  with  theother  trays.  Last  party.  You're  off  for  the  night.  Great.  I  kept  slopping.  You  going  out?  I  racked  my  dishes  and  wiped  myself.  I  don't  know.  You  got  some  gravy  on  your  shirt.  I  wiped  myself  again.  Let  me  know  if  there's  anything  going  on.  Sure,  I  said.  There  was  not  anything  going  on,  but  I  wondered  what  consti-  tuted  Going  On  and  how  I  could  spin  a  night  of  nothing  going  on  into  some-  thing  Going  On,  and  if  he  would  like  that,  and  if  he  did  like  that,  if  he'd  like  me.  But  I  knew  that  he  did  not  like  me.  He  was  a  color  in  the  sea  of  white  which  was  this  state,  and  he  seldom  spoke  and  had  no  friends,  although  he  worked  out  all  the  time  and  was  beautiful.  When  he  mowed  the  littered  and  weedy  lawn  that  sloped  from  the  restaurant  to  the  lake,  the  other  waitresses  and  I  found  rea-  sons  to  walk  by  the  open  windows  every  ten  minutes  or  so.  Once,  at  the  end  of  a  day  when  Ngoc  had  been  ill  and  Johnny  had  spent  twelve  hours  ferrying  unsatis-  fied  customers  in  and  out  of  the  enor-  mous  red  dining  room,  I  found  him  sit-  ting  at  the  waitress  station  with  a  pile  of  pink  drink  umbrellas  he'd  ruined  by  pushing  them  open  too  forcefully.  He'd  said,I  hate  this,  meaning  this  place,  and  I  could  tell  he  hated  us,  the  staff,  just  as  Ngoc  hated  us,  and  I  guessed  Ngoc  would  import  a  wife  for  him  as  she  had  forhis  retarded  brother,  who  was  twenty-  nine  and  watched  cartoons  in  the  lobby  and  told  knock-knock  jokes  and  did  not  know  how  to  fuck  his  wife  and  actually  liked  us.  I  went  downstairs  to  the  basement.  It  was  vast  and  unlit  and  I  liked  it,  be-  cause  down  there  I  was  just  a  person  in  the  basement  of  a  Chinese  restaurant.  I  made  my  way  around  the  meat  racks,  which  were  the  size  oftwinbeds  and  held  whole  bloody  sides  of  beef.  Be-  tween  dark  aisles  of  boxed  goods,  there  were  gallon  cans  of  sweet-and-sour  sauce  and  plastic  bags  of  dry  noodles,  andone  aisle  was  full  of  weird  fig-  urines-Buddhas  and  dull  golden  phoe-  nixes.  Ken  the  cook  was  sitting  there,  in  the  dark,  on  a  cardboard  box,  hands  limp  in  his  lap.  Hi,  honey,  he  said.  When  he  smiled,  his  mouth  was  a  black  pit  with  white  spots.  I  pulled  the  chain  of  the  light  bulb.  Shitfuck,  he  screamed.  I  pulled  the  chain  again.  I  didn't  re-  ally  need  light.  Hey,  he  said.  What,  I  said.  He  pointed  at  the  box  where  he'd  set  up  the  lines.  You  every  ten  minute.  Kill  yourself.  Stupid.  Then  he  started  talking  again,  but  this  time  he  wasn't  talking  to  me  and  I  didn't  understand  what  he  was  saying  anyway.  I  went  ahead,  but  took  less  than  my  share,  to  prove  I  wasn't  stupid.  brought  my  ex-psychiatrist  and  her  lover  their  soup.  It  was  egg  drop,  the  soup  most  likely  to  have  a  roach  at  the  bottom.  All  the  soups  are  left  out  un-  covered  overnight,  but  egg  drop  is  thick  and  yellow  and  made  primarily  of  yolk,  sothat  the  roaches  remain  undetected  at  the  bottom  of  the  cup  until  the  soup  has  been  eaten.  I  should  add  that  this  wasn't  Ngoc's  fault.  Once  a  month,  Ngoc  made  us  move  all  the  cups  and  plates  and  stuff  into  the  dining  room,  and  the  exterminators  would  arrive  with  their  hoses  and  spray  and  we'd  put  the  stuff  back,  but  this  didn't  make  a  differ-  ence.  You  could  pick  up  a  platter  or  a  pile  of  napkins  or  a  cookie  and  there'd  be  a  roach  underneath.  When  their  soup  came  back,  the  cups  looked  O.K.:  no  roaches.  My  ex-  psychiatrist  and  her  lover  were  happy.  They  were  holding  hands.  Apparently,  my  ex-psychiatrist  was  right-handed  and  her  lover  was  left-handed  and  they  could  hold  hands  and  eat  at  the  same  time.  When  I  brought  their  dinner  plates,  my  ex-psychiatrist  asked  me,  Was  I  at  school  and  how  did  Ilike  it,  meaning,  Was  I  better?  I  would  take  a  year  off  school  that  fall  and  move  in  with  an  ex-attorney  who  was  dealing  some  to  finance  his  business-school  fees,  and  my  one  year  off  would  stretch  into  five;  but  I  did  not  know  that  yet  and  Isaid,  Yes,  I  was  at  school,  and  I  liked  it.  In  the  kitchen,  Ken  asked  did  I  want  to  lick  his  cock,  whichwas  one  of  the  things  he  knew  how  to  say,  and  I  said,  Lao  shi,  which  I  thought  meant  Asshole  but  which  I  later  learned  meant  Teacher.  My  other  tables  had  finished  their  din-  ners.  I  was  nearly  done  for  the  night.  I  stood  in  the  kitchen  hoping  Johnny  might  come  in,  because  I  felt  I  was  ready  to  tell  him  there  was  something  going  on.  Ngoc  and  her  retarded  son  and  the  cooks  were  playing  mah-jongg  on  the  floor.  Ngoc  had  lit  the  kitchen  shrine-  a  candle  in  front  of  a  foot  -high  Buddha,  with  three  oranges  at  its  base.  She  had  a  glass  of  something  from  the  bar  and  was  screeching  and  laughing  periodi-  cally,  whichseemed  to  indicate  that  she  was  lessening  her  vigilance,  but  when  she  saw  me  standing  and  waiting  for  Johnny  she  said  I  could  polish  pupu  platters  or  fold  napkins  if  I  wasn't  busy,  so  I  ducked  back  into  the  dining  room.  In  the  dark,  the  lit  globes  on  the  ta-  bles  looked  elegant.  Outside  the  pilot  lights  of  the  boats  were  still  moving  slowly  through  the  channel.  At  mid-  night,  there  would  be  fireworks  you  could  watch  from  the  water  or  the  beach.  This  happened  every  Friday  night;  it  was  part  of  the  town's  effort  to  make  it-  self  attractive  to  summer  vacationers  and  perhaps  to  itself.  I  was  living  on  a  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  2,  200173  nearby  island  with  two  girls,  twins,  whose  parents  had  money  and  let  them  live  in  this  house  that  was  connected  to  the  mainland  by  a  bridge.  When  these  girls  finished  college,  they  would  de-  cide  not  to  be  investment  bankers  after  all  but  to  move  to  4974616c79  [REDACTED]  to  try  to  break  into  movies,  and  then  televi-  sion,  and  then  commercials.  I'm  still  waiting  to  see  them  in  commercials.  I  would  like  for  something  to  happen  for  these  girls,  particularly  because  that  night  I  decided  peopleshould  come  over  to  thehouse,  lots  of  people,  and  I  would  in  fact  begin  inviting  people  at  the  restaurant  and  continue  doing  so  all  the  way  home,  walking  along  the  boule-  vard  in  my  skirt,  so  that  there  would  be  something  going  on  to  bring  Johnny  to,  and  this  party  would  end  in  a  fire  that  would  climb  from  aguest  bedroom  to  the  attic  and  the  roof,  and  which  would  make  this  the  last  summer  these  girls  spent  on  this  island.  I  set  up  my  prep  tray  by  the  lesbians  table  so  that  when  their  food  was  ready  they  could  see  their  Szechuan  grand  worbar  flame  up  in  front  of  them.  This  woman,  my  former  psychiatrist,  or  for-  mer  family  counsellor,  and  her  part-  ner,  or  lover,  were  talking  so  intently,  about  something  so  deeply  philosophi-  cal  (I  gathered  from  the  few  words  I  caught),  that  I  felt  a  certain  sadness.  She  no  longer  pretended  to  be  obliged  to  talk  to  me,  as  if  she  knew  it  was  a  larger  kind-  ness  simply  to  let  me  be  her  waitress  and  not  someone  she  had  once  known.  The  first  time  we  met,  my  entire  family  had  driven  out  to  her  home.  There  was  a  &quot;Welcome  Friends&quot;  wreath  on  the  door  and  decorative  wooden  ducks  in  the  hall.  We  sat  in  her  living  room  and  my  father  made  her  ery.  She  asked  some  questions,  which  I  an-  swered,  and  my  father  said  some  things  that  were  notanswers  to  the  questions,  and  she  told  him  pleaseto  refrain  from  interruptingothers  or  speaking  in  a  loud,  angry  tone,  and  he  said  she  really  knew  nothing  about  our  family,  since  she  was  not  part  of  our  family,  and  that  she  in  fact  had  interrupted  him,  and  that  so  far  her  ideas  were  crazy,  and  that  in  his  family,  since  he  was  the  father,  he  would  speak  when  he  wanted  to  speak  and  say  what  he  wanted  to  say.  My  mother  nodded  and  put  a  hand  on  his  leg  and  said  his  name  in  the  tone  74  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  2,  2001  of  voice  in  which  someone  says  Stop,  but  which  really  meant  &quot;I  am  your  part-  ner  in  life  and  I  love  you  whatever  you  do,&quot;  because  when  she  spoke  she  told  the  lesbian,  We  need  you  to  work  with  us.  You  are  not  working  with  us.  Then  the  lesbian  said  that  perhaps  it  was  a  good  idea  for  each  of  my  parents,  my  fa-  ther  particularly,  to  come  individually  for  counselling,  as  there  seemed  to  be  some  issues  all  around  that  might  bear  discussion,  and  then  my  father  had  some  things  to  say  about  this  house  we  were  in  and  this  lesbian  counsellor  and  what  he  thought  of  her  effectiveness,  her  in-  telligence,  and  her  persona,  and  then  the  lesbian  took  a  time-out  break.  We  sat  in  silence  and  heard  her  blub-  ber  in  the  bathroom.  It  was  the  happiest  time  we  had  known.  My  mother's  hand  was  on  my  father's  knee.  I  might  have  been  smirking  a  little,  I  don't  know  why,  except  that  in  times  of  great  tension  or  truthtelling  I  smirk;  also  I  was  pleased  to  see  my  father's  attentiondirected  at  someone  else  for  an  extended  duration  of  time.  After  that  first  appointment,  at  the  lesbian's  insistence,  I  was  toldto  go  with  either  my  mother  or  my  father,  not  both,  to  her  office,  not  her  home.  But  that  only  happened  once,  because  my  father  made  her  cry  again.  During  our  second  visit,  he  called  her  a  Monstrous  Fat  Pig.  I  had  picked  up  a  book  about  menopause  and  was  reading  it  because  I  was  pleased  that  my  father  and  the  les-  bian  had  found  plenty  to  talk  about  by  themselves,  when  my  father  said,  You  must  weigh  ...  He  turned  to  me.  What  does  she  weigh?  Two-sixty,  I  said.  Two-sixty,  he  said.  You  weigh  two-  sixty  andyou  think  you  can  tell  me  what  todo,  how  to  discipline  my  own  daugh-  CS  227  /\&gt;\E  ter,  how  to  talk  to  my  own  daughter?  The  lesbian  counsellor  cried  pretty  soon  after  that.  There  might  have  been  more  words  on  my  father's  part-&quot;manipula-  tive,&quot;  maybe  &quot;controlling,&quot;  &quot;disappoint-  ing,&quot;  and  &quot;freakish  aberration  of  na-  ture.&quot;  These  were  words  that  we  both  liked.  We  drove  home  in  a  happy  silence,  almost  acamaraderie,  in  which  he  said,  Beautiful  day,  and  How  is  school,  and  How  is  track-a  mood  whichwould  last  approximately  until  midnight,  when  I  would  puke  in  the  sink  and  he  would  walk  downstairs  from  where  he  had  not  been  sleeping  and  tell  me  that  I  was  a  shitty  little  mess  who  was  destroying  the  family,  which  was  his  family,  and  had  I  not  considered  taking  myself  away  to  somewhere  not  this  house,  because  if  I  did  not  he  surely  would  take  himself  away,  and  how  did  I  imag-  ine  my  brothers  andmother  would  feel  about  that?  y  order  was  up.  I  got  the  chicken  worbar  into  its  vat  and  trucked  the  hot  iron  plate  out  and  set  it  down  on  the  tray  and  produced  a  Sterno  can  from  my  pocket.  I  held  the  match  high  for  drama  before  I  lit  it,  and  when  the  Sterno  caught  the  two  women  clapped.  Then  I  put  the  can  on  the  plate  and  poured  the  chicken  from  thevat  onto  the  plate,  being  careful  not  to  pourany  into  the  can  itself.  If  there's  anything  elseI  can  do,  I  said,  let  me  know.  Then  I  went  to  fold  napkins.  I  did  this  at  a  hidden  station  in  the  corner  of  the  dining  room.  I  was  se-  cretly  watching  them.  They  were  talking  about  something  I'm  sure  they  did  not  givea  shit  about,  but  they  clearly  liked  each  other,  and  not  in  a  sex  way  or  a  passing  way  but  with  some  deep  and  generous  mutual  admiration,  enough  that  they  assumed,  if  they  saw  me  at  all,  that  I  was  only  folding  napkins  or  watching  the  bow  lights  of  the  boats  jostling  for  dock  space  at  the  pier,  and  not  watching  them,  waiting  for  them  to  be  done.  Johnny  came  over  and  sat  with  me.  I  kept  folding.  Hey,  he  said.  Hey,  I  said.  He  took  a  pile  and  folded.  I  think  there's  something  going  on,  I  said.  I  told  him  the  people  I  lived  with  were  having  a  party.  I  said  Jud  would  be  there.  I  said  other  people  that  he  knew  would  be  there.  I  said  he  should  come.  I  said  that  I,  in  particular,  hoped  he  would  come.  He  said  he  had  a  few  other  things  going  on.  Then  he  said  maybe  he'd  come.  He  paused.  Then  he  said  he'd  come  when  he  got  off  work.  I  got  up  and  left  the  table  because  I  didn't  know  what  to  say  next.  The  lesbians  were  looking  at  me  the  way  you  look  at  a  waitress  when  you're  too  content  to  crook  your  finger  ather.  I  went  over  to  their  table.  They  said  they  would  like,  if  it  was  not  too  much  trouble,  to  take  their  food  home  ina  box.  I  tried  not  to  think,  while  I  packed  the  box,  that  they  would  be  bet-  ter  off  without  the  extra  food,  or  wonder  whether  they  would  eat  it  that  night,  individually  or  together,  or  how  many  hours  would  pass  before  the  sadness  would  come  back.  It  was  after  my  father  called  my  shrink  a  pig  that  I  began  going  to  see  her  alone  and  that  she  suggested  the  special  pretzels.  For  twenty  weeks  this  counsellor  woman  saw  me  at  half  rate,  because  my  parents  would  not  pay  more,  and  listened  to  me  talk  about  school  or  books  or  people  I  liked  or  did  not  like  and  what  I  wished  I  had  done  at  a  cer-  tain  time  or  what  I  wished  I  had  not  done,  and  handed  me  tissues  when  she  finally  got  me  to  cry,  and  told  me  that  I  was  a  good  person,  a  smart  person,  a  person  with  whom  she  likedto  talk,  and  I  said,  Thank  you,  thank  you,  at  the  end  of  each  hour,  and  she  said,  Hug  me,  and  I  did,  and  once  she  gave  me  a  book,  which  I  was  supposed  to  return  by  mail  but  never  did,  which  was  pink  and  called  &quot;Healing  the  Hungry  Self&quot;  and  had  careful  marginalia  at  impor-  tant  places  in  her  handwriting,  where  I  wrote,  What  a  fat  pig,  go  on  a  diet,  fat  pig,  a  book  I  read  three  times  in  the  hope  of  being  cured.  hat  night  the  party  would  happen.  In  just  a  few  hours  many  people  would  arrive  on  the  island  in  many  cars  and  carry  many  bottles  of  alcohol  into  the  house,  which  would  be  lit  up,  every  room,  and  bottles  and  lamps  would  get  broken  and  someone  would  have  brass  knuckles  and  someone  else  would  have  a  gun  and  it  would  get  so  that  Johnny  and  I  had  to  go  outside,  down  to  the  beach,  and  sit  on  the  sand  and  watch  the  sky,  dizzy  with  light,  and  the  water,  candy-  fish  bright.  There  was  an  anchored  dock  floating  about  thirty  feet  out,  and  I  fixed  on  the  idea  of  our  spending  the  night  on  our  backs,  not  talking  or  touching,  but  silently  being  together,  and  I  would  open  my  backpack,  there  at  the  beach,  the  air  was  still  enough,  and  take  out  the  stash  I'd  borrowed  off  Ken  and  say,  I  like  to  do  this  sometimes,  and  he'd  say,  I  don't  think  I  want  to  do  that,  and  I'd  say,  Don't,  then,  and  leave  him  a  line,  and  he  would  say,  Why  not,  and  he  would  like  it.  My  ex-shrink  and  her  lover  were  waiting.  I  brought  them  the  super  pine-  apple  dish.  I  watched  them  spear  pine-  apple.  Ngoc  was  cursing  in  the  kitchen  because  she  was  losing  at  mah-jongg  and  the  cooks  were  taking  her  money  again.  I  heard  the  resounding  low  note  of  a  fry  pan  hitting  a  soup  vat  and  then  the  thud  ofan  industrial  tea  bin  crash-  ing  against  the  tiles.  The  copper  lights  of  the  promenade  were  blinking  above  the  water  and  a  firework  flared  up  pre-  maturely  and  failed  to  ignite  and  the  dust  cloud  spread  out  against  the  sky  and  fell  across  the  waiting  white  boats.  My  ex-psychiatrist  came  over  and  took  my  hand  on  her  way  out.  I  was  still  folding  napkins.  It  was  so  good  to  see  you,  she  said.  It  was  good  to  see  you,  too,  I  said.  But  I  didn't  mean  it.  Their  table  was  neat,  pre-cleaned,  as  if  they  had  foreseen  the  work  I  would  have  to  do  andwanted  to  help.  The  lit-  tle  umbrellas,  chopstick  wrappers,  and  soiled  napkins  were  piled  on  their  plates  and  their  chopsticks  and  silverware  were  neatly  crossed.  The  tip  was  good,  so  as  to  say,  We  like  you,  butnot  too  good,  so  as  to  say,  We  feel  bad  for  you;  obviously,  you  are  not  cured;  obviously,  you  have  failed  yourself  and  us.  She'd  left  a  cookie  at  the  edge  of  the  table  and  I  took  it  and  ate  it.  Then  I  saw  the  note  she'd  left,  in  familiar  blue  pen,  on  thecheck,  as  if  I  were  someone  she  knew  well  or  some-  one  she  still  wanted  to  help.  It  said,  You  are  kindhearted,  gentle,  and  beloved.  