  FICTION  A  HOUSE  ON  THE  PLAINS  <ama  said  I  was  thenceforth  to  be  her  nephew,  and  to  call  her  Aunt  Dora.  She  said  our  fortune  depended  on  her  not  having  a  son  as  old  as  eighteen  who  looked  more  like  twenty.  Say  Aunt  Dora,  she  said.  I  said  it.  Shewas  not  sat-  isfied.  She  made  me  say  it  several  times.  She  said  I  must  say  it  believing  that  she  had  taken  me  in  since  the  death  of  her  widowed  brother  Horace.  I  said,  I  didn't  know  you  had  a  brother  named  Horace.  Of  course  I  don't,  she  said  with  an  amused  glance  at  me.  But  it  must  be  a  good  story  if  I  could  fool  his  son  with  it.  I  was  not  offended  as  I  watched  her  primp  in  the  mirror,  touching  her  hair  as  women  do  although  you  can  never  see  what  afterward  is  different.  With  the  life  insurance,  she  had  bought  us  a  farm  fifty  miles  west  of  the  city  line.  Who  would  be  there  to  care  if  I  was  her  flesh-and-blood  son  or  not?  But  she  had  her  plans  and  was  looking  ahead.  I  had  no  plans,  I  had  never  had  plans,  just  the  inkling  of  something,  some-  times,  I  didn't  know  what.  I  hunched  over  and  went  down  the  stairs  with  the  second  trunk  wrapped  to  my  back  with  a  rope.  Outside,  at  the  foot  of  the  stoop,  the  children  were  waiting  with  their  scraped  knees  and  socks  around  their  ankles.  They  sang  their  own  dirty  words  toa  nursery  rhyme.  I  shooed  them  away  and  they  scattered  off  for  a  minute,  hooting  and  hollering,  and  thenof  course  came  back  again  as  I  went  up  the  stairs  for  the  rest  of  the  things.  Mama  was  standing  at  the  empty  bay  window.  While  there  is  your  court  of  in-  quest  on  the  one  hand,  she  said,  on  the  other  is  your  court  of  neighbors.  Out  in  the  country,  she  said,  there  will  be  no  one  to  jump  to  conclusions.  You  can  leave  the  door  open  and  the  window  shades  up.  Everything  is  clean  and  pure  under  the  sun.  Well,  I  could  understand  that,  but  [REDACTED]  to  my  mind  was  the  only  place  to  be,  with  its  grand  hotels  and  its  restaurants  and  paved  avenues  of  trees  and  mansions.  Of  course,  not  all  [REDACTED]  was  like  that.  Our  third-floor  windows  didn't  look  out  on  much  besides  the  row  of  boarding  houses  across  the  street.  And  itis  truethatin  the  summer  peo-  ple  of  refinementcould  be  overcome  with  thesmell  of  the  stockyards,  al-  though  it  didn't  bother  me.  Winter  was  another  complaint  that  wasn't  mine.  I  never  minded  the  cold.  The  wind  in  winter  blowing  off  the  lake  went  whip-  ping  the  ladies'  skirts  like  a  demon  dane  ing  around  their  ankles.  And  winter  or  summer  you  could  always  ride  the  elec-  tric  streetcars  if  youhad  nothing  else  to  do.  I  above  all  liked  the  city  because  it  was  filled  with  people  all  a-bustle,  and  the  clatter  of  hooves  and  carriages,  and  with  delivery  wagons  and  drays  and  ped-  dlers  and  the  boom  and  clank  of  freight  trains.  And  when  those  black  clouds  came  sailing  in  from  the  west,  pouring  thunderstorms  upon  us  sothat  you  couldn't  hear  the  cries  or  curses  of  hu-  mankind,  I  liked  that  best  of  all.  Chi-  cago  could  stand  up  to  the  worst  God  had  to  offer.  I  understood  why  it  was  built-a  place  for  trade,  of  course,  with  railroads  and  ships  and  so  on,  but  mostly  to  give  all  of  us  a  magnitude  of  defiance  that  is  not  provided  by  one  house  on  the  plains.  And  the  plains  is  where  those  storms  come  from.  Besides,  I  would  miss  my  friend  Winifred  Czerwinska,  who  stood  now  on  her  landing  as  I  was  going  downstairs  with  the  suitcases.  Come  ina  minute,  she  said,  I  want  to  give  you  something.  I  went  in  and  she  closed  the  door  behind  me.  You  can  put  those  down,  she  said  of  the  suitcases.  My  heart  always  beat  faster  in  Wini-  fred's  presence,  I  could  feel  it  and  she  knew  it  too  and  it  made  her  happy.  She  put  her  handon  my  chest  now  and  she  stood  on  tiptoes  to  kiss  me  with  her  hand  under  my  shirt  feeling  my  heart  pump.  Look  at  him,  all  turned  out  in  acoat  and  tie.  Oh,  she  said,  with  her  eyes  tear-  ing  up,  what  am  I  going  to  do  without  my  Earle?  But  she  was  smiling.  Winifred  was  not  a  Mama  type  of  woman.  Shewas  a  slight,  skinny  thing,  and  when  she  went  down  the  stairs  it  was  like  a  bird  hopping.  She  wore  no  powder  or  perfumery  except,  by  acci-  dent,  the  confectionery  sugar  that  she  brought  home  on  her  from  the  bakery  where  she  worked  behind  the  counter.  She  had  sweet  cool  lips,  but  one  eyelid  didn't  come  up  all  the  way  over  the  blue,  which  made  her  not  as  pretty  as  she  might  otherwise  be.  And  of  course  she  had  no  titties  to  speak  of.  You  can  write  me  a  letter  and  I  will  write  back,  I  said.  What  will  you  say  in  your  letter?  I  will  think  of  something,  I  said.  She  pulled  me  into  the  kitchen,  where  shespread  her  feet  and  put  her  forearms  flat  on  a  chair  so  that  I  could  raise  her  frock  and  fuck  into  her  in  the  way  she  preferred.  It  didn't  take  that  long,  but  even  so  while  Winifred  wig-  gled  and  made  her  little  cat  sounds  I  couldhear  Mama  calling  from  upstairs  as  to  where  I  had  gotten.  We  had  ordereda  carriage  to  take  us  and  the  luggage  at  the  same  time  rather  than  sending  it  off  by  the  less  expensive  American  Express  and  taking  a  horsecar  to  the  station.  That  was  not  my  idea,  but  how  much  money  we  had  after  Mama  bought  the  house  only  she  knew.  She  came  down  the  steps  under  her  broad-  brim  hat  and  widow's  veil  and  held  her  skirts  at  her  shoe  tops  as  the  driver  helped  her  into  the  carriage.  We  were  making  a  grand  exit  in  full  daylight.  This  was  pure  Mama  as  she  lifted  her  veil  and  glanced  with  con-  tempt  at  the  neighbors  looking  out  from  their  windows.  As  for  the  nasty  children,  they  had  gone  quite  quiet  at  our  display  of  elegance.  I  swung  up  beside  her  and  closed  the  door  and  at  her  instruction  threw  a  handful  of  pennies  on  the  side-  URA,  &quot;TH  E  VIRGIN®  (2000)  E  Z  fod  &gt;  =  &amp;     walk  and  I  watched  the  children  push  and  shove  one  another  and  dive  to  their  knees  as  we  drove  off.  When  we  had  turned  the  corner,  Mama  opened  the  hatbox  I  had  put  on  the  seat.  She  removed  her  black  hat  and  replaced  it  with  a  blue  number  trimmed  in  fake  flowers.  Over  her  mourning  dress  she  draped  a  glittery  shaw!  in  striped  colors  like  the  rainbow.  There,  she  said.  I  feel  so  much  better  now.  Are  you  all  right,  Earle?  Yes,  Mama,  I  said.  Aunt  Dora.  Yes,  Aunt  Dora.  I  wish  you  had  a  better  mind,  Earle.  You  could  have  paid  more  attention  to  the  Doctor  when  he  was  alive.  We  had  our  disagreements,  but  he  was  smart  for  a  man.  he  train  stop  of  La  [REDACTED]  was  a  con-  crete  platform  and  alean-to  for  a  waiting  room  and  no  ticket-agent  win-  dow.  When  you  got  off,  you  were  look-  ing  down  an  alley  to  a  glimpse  of  their  Main  Street.  Main  Street  had  a  feed  store,  a  post  office,  a  white  wooden  church,  a  granite  stone  bank,  a  haber-  dasher,  a  town  square  with  a  four-story  hotel,  and  in  the  middle  of  the  square  on  the  grass  the  statue  of  a  Union  soldier.  It     could  all  be  counted  because  there  was  just  one  of  everything.  A  man  with  a  dray  was  willing  to  take  us,  and  he  drove  past  a  few  other  streets  where  first  there  were  some  homes  of  substance  and  an-  other  church  or  two  but  then,  as  you  moved  further  out  from  the  town  center,  there  were  only  worn-looking  one-story  shingle  houses  with  dark  porches  and  little  garden  plots  and  clotheslines  out  back  with  only  alleys  separating  them.  I  couldn't  see  how,  but  Mama  said  there  was  a  population  of  over  three  thousand  living  here.  And  then,  after  a  couple  of  miles  through  farmland,  with  a  silo  here  and  there,  offa  straight  road  leading  due  west  through  fields  of  corn,  there  swung  into  view  what  I  had  not  expected:  a  three-story  house  of  red  brick  with  a  flat  roof  and  stone  steps  up  to  the  front  door  like  something  just  lifted  out  of  a  street  of  row  houses  in  [REDACTED].  I  couldn't  be-  lieve  anyone  had  built  such  a  thing  for  a  farmhouse.  The  sun  flared  in  the  win-  dowpanes,  and  I  had  to  shade  my  eyes  to  make  sure  I  was  seeing  what  I  saw.  But  that  was  it  in  truth,  our  new  home.  Not  that  I  had  the  time  to  ponder,  not  with  Mama  settling  in.  We  went  to  work.  The  house  was  cobwebbed  and  dusty  and  it  was  rank  with  the  drop-  pings  of  animal  life.  Blackbirds  were  roosting  in  the  top  floor,  where  I  was  to  live.  Much  needed  to  be  done,  but  before  long  she  had  it  all  organized  and  a  pa-  rade  of  wagons  was  coming  from  town  with  the  furniture  she'd  Expressed  and  no  shortage  of  men  willing  to  hire  on  for  a  day  with  hopes  for  more  from  this  grand  good-looking  lady  with  the  rings  on  several  fingers.  And  so  the  fence  went  up  for  the  chicken  yard,  and  the  weed  fields  beyond  were  being  plowed  under  and  the  watering  hole  for  stock  was  dredged  and  a  new  privy  was  dug,  and  I  thought  for  some  days  Mama  was  the  biggest  employer  of  La  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  But  who  would  haul  the  well  water  and  wash  the  clothes  and  bake  the  bread?  A  farm  was  a  different  life,  and  days  went  by  when  I  slept  under  the  roof  of  the  third  floor  and  felt  the  heat  of  the  day  still  on  my  pallet  as  I  looked  through  the  lit-  tle  window  at  the  stars  and  I  felt  unpro-  tected  asI  never  had  in  the  civilization  we  had  retreated  from.  Yes,  I  thought,  we  had  moved  backward  from  the  world's  progress,  and  for  the  first  time  I  won-  dered  about  Mama's  judgment.  In  all  our  travels  from  state  to  state  and  with  all  the  various  obstacles  to  her  ambition,  I  had  never  thought  to  question  it.  But  no  more  than  this  house  was  a  farmer's  house  was  she  a  farmer,  and  neither  was  L.  One  evening  we  stood  on  the  front  steps  watching  the  sun  go  down  behind  the  low  hills  miles  away.  Aunt  Dora,  I  said,  what  are  we  up  to  here?  I  know,  Earle.  But  some  things  take  time.  She  saw  me  looking  at  her  hands,  how  red  they  had  gotten.  I  am  bringing  an  immigrant  woman  down  from  [REDACTED].  She  will  sleep  in  that  room  behind  the  kitchen.  She's  to  be  here  in  a  week  or  so.  Why?  I  said.  There's  women  in  La  [REDACTED],  the  wives  of  all  these  locals  come  out  here  for  a  day's  work,  who  could  surely  use  the  money.  I  will  not  have  some  woman  in  the  house  who  will  only  take  back  to  town  what  she  sees  and  hears.  Use  what  sense  God  gave  you,  Earle.  I  am  trying,  Mama.  Aunt  Dora,  God  damn  it.  Aunt  Dora.  Yes,  she  said.  Especially  here  in  the  middle  of  nowhere  and  with  nobody  else  in  sight.  Shehad  tied  her  thick  hair  behind  her  neck  against  the  heat  and  she  went  about  now  loose  in  a  smock  without  her  usual  women's  underpinnings.  But  doesn't  the  air  smell  sweet,  she  said.  I'm  going  to  have  a  screen  porch  built  and  fitit  out  with  a  settee  and  some  rockers  so  we  can  watch  the  grand  show  of  nature  in  comfort.  She  ruffled  my  hair.  And  you  don't  have  to  pout,  she  said.  You  may  not  ap-  preciate  it  here  this  moment  with  the  air  so  peaceful  and  the  birds  singing  and  nothing  much  going  on  in  any  direction  you  can  see.  But  we're  still  in  business,  Earle.  You  can  trust  me  on  that.  And  so  I  was  assured.  k  By  and  by  we  acquired  an  old-  fashioned  horse  and  buggy  to  take  us  to  La  [REDACTED]  and  back  when  Aunt  Dora  had  to  go  to  the  bank  or  the  post  office  or  when  provisions  were  needed.  I  was  the  driver  and  horse  groom.  He,  the  horse,  and  I  did  not  get  along.  I  wouldn't  give  him  a  name.  He  was  ugly,  with  a  sway-  back  and  legs  that  trotted  out  splayed.  I  had  butchered  and  trimmed  better-  looking  plugs  than  this  in  [REDACTED].  Once  in  the  barn  when  I  was  putting  him  up  for  the  night  he  took  a  chomp  in  the  air  just  off  my  shoulder.  Another  problem  was  Bent,  the  handyman  Mama  had  hired  for  the  steady  work.  No  sooner  did  she  begin  taking  him  upstairs  of  an  afternoon  than  he  was  strutting  around  like  he  owned  the  place.  This  was  a  problem,  as  I  saw  it.  Sure  enough,  one  day  he  told  me  to  do  something.  It  was  one  of  his  own  chores.  I  thought  youwas  the  hired  one,  I  said  to  him.  He  was  ugly,  like  a  relation  of  the  horse,  and  he  was  shorter  than  you  thought  he  ought  to  be,  with  his  long  arms  and  big  gnarled  hands  hanging  from  them.  Get  on  with  it,  I  said.  Leering,  he  grabbed  me  by  the  shoul,  der  and  put  his  mouth  up  to  my  ear.  I  seen  it  all,  he  said.  Oh  yes.  I  seen  every-  thing  a  man  could  wish  to  see.  At  thisI  found  myself  constructing  a  fate  for  Bent  the  handyman.  But  he  was  so  drunkly  stupid  I  knew  Mama  must  have  her  own  plan  for  him,  or  else  why  would  she  play  up  to  someone  of  this  ilk,  and  so  I  held  my  ideas  in  abeyance.  In  fact,  I  was  by  now  thinking  I  could  wrest  some  hope  from  the  wide  loneliness  of  this  farm  with  views  of  the  plains  as  far  as  you  could  see.  What  had  come  to  mind?  An  aroused  expectancy  or  sus-  pense  that  I  recognized  from  times  past.  Yes.  I  had  sensed  that  whatever  was  going  to  happen  had  begun.  There  was  not  only  the  handyman.  There  were  the  orphan  children.  She  had  contracted  for  three  from  the  do-good  agency  in  New  York  that  took  orphans  off  the  streets  and  washed  and  dressed  them  and  put  them  on  the  train  to  foster  homes  in  the  midland.  Ours  were  comely  enough  children,  though  pale:  two  boys  and  a  girl,  with  papers  that  gave  their  ages,  six,  six,  and  eight,  and  as  I  trotted  them  to  the  farm  they  sat  up  behind  me  staring  at  the  countryside  without  a  word.  They  were  installed  in  the  back  bedroom  on  the  second  floor,  and  they  were  not  like  the  miserable  children  from  our  neigh-  borhood  in  the  city.  These  were  quiet  children  except  for  the  weeping  they  were  sometimes  given  to  at  night,  and  by  and  large  they  did  as  they  were  told.  Mama  had  some  real  feeling  for  them,  Joseph  and  Calvin  and  the  girl,  Sophie,  in  particular.  There  were  no  conditions  as  to  what  faith  they  were  to  be  brought  up  in  nor  did  we  have  any  in  mind.  But  on  Sundays  Mama  took  to  showing  them  off  to  the  Methodist  church  in  La  [REDACTED]  in  the  new  clothes  she  had  bought  for  them.  It  gave  her  pleasure  and  also  bespoke  of  her  pride  of  position  in  life.  Because  it  turned  out,  as  I  was  learning,  that  even  in  the  farthest  reaches  of  the  countryside  you  lived  in  society.  And  in  this  great  scheme  of  things  my  Aunt  Dora  required  Joseph,  Calvin,  and  Sophie  to  think  of  her  as  their  Mama.  Say  Mama,  she  said  to  them.  And  they  said  it.  Well,  so  here  was  this  household  of  us,  ready-made,  as  something  bought  from  a  department  store.  Fannie  was  the  imported  cook  and  housekeeper,  who  by  Mama's  design  spoke  no  English  but  understood  well  enough  what  had  to  be  done.  She  was  heavyset,  like  Mama,  with  the  strength  to  work  hard.  And  be-  sides  Bent,  who  skulked  about  by  the  barns  and  fences  in  the  sly  pretense  of  work,  there  was  a  real  farmer  out  beyond  who  was  sharecropping  the  acreage  in  corn.  And  two  mornings  a  week  a  retired  county  teacher  woman  came  by  to  tutor  the  children  in  reading  and  arithmetic.  Mama  said  one  evening,  We  are  an  honest-to-goodness  enterprise  here,  a  functioning  family  better  off  than  most  in  these  parts,  but  we  are  running  at  a  deficit,  and  if  we  don't  have  something  in  hand  before  winter  the  only  resources  will  be  the  insurance  I  took  out  on  the  little  ones.  She  lit  the  kerosene  lamp  on  the  desk  in  the  parlor  and  wrote  out  a  personal  and  read  it  to  me:  &quot;Widow  offering  partnership  in  prime  farmland  to  de-  pendable  man.  A  modest  investment  is  required.&quot;  What  do  you  think,  Earle?  It's  O.K.  She  read  it  again  to  herself.  No,  she  said.  It's  not  good  enough.  You've  got  to  get  them  up  off  their  ass  and  out  of  the  house  to  the  credit  union  and  then  on  a  train  to  La  [REDACTED],  Ilinois.  That's  a  lot  to  do  with  just  a  few  words.  How  about  this:  &quot;Wanted!&quot;  That's  good,  it  bespeaks  urgency.  And  doesn't  every  male  in  the  world  think  he's  what  is  wanted?  &quot;Wanted-Recently  widowed  woman  with  a  bountiful  farm  in  God's  own  country  has  need  of  Nordic  man  of  suf-  ficient  means  for  partnership  in  same.&quot;  What  is  Nordic?  I  said.  Well,  that's  pure  cunning  right  there,  Earle,  because  that  is  all  theygot  in  the  |  states  where  we  print  this-Swedes  and  |  Norwegies  just  off  the  boat.  But  I'm  let-  ting  them  know  a  lady's  preference.  All  right,  but  what's  that  you  say  there-&quot;of  sufficient  means&quot;?  What  Norwegie  off  the  boat'll  know  what  that's  all  about?  This  gave  her  pause.  Good  for  you,  Earle,  you  surprise  me  sometimes.  She  licked  the  pencil  point.  So  we'll  just  say  &quot;with  cash.&quot;  We  placed  the  personal  in  one  paper  at  a  time  in  towns  in  [REDACTED]  and  then  in  South  Dakota.  The  letters  of  court-  ship  commenced,  and  Mama  kept  a  ledger  with  the  names  and  dates  of  ar-  rival,  making  sureto  give  each  candidate  his  sufficient  time.  We  always  advised  the  early-morning  train,  when  the  town  was  not  yet  up  and  about.  Besides  my  regular  duties,  I  had  to  take  part  in  the  family  reception.  Each  of  them  would  be  welcomed  into  the  parlor  and  Mama  would  serve  coffee  from  a  wheeled  tray,  and  Joseph,  Calvin,  and  Sophie,  her  chil-  dren,  and  I,  her  nephew,  would  sit  on  the  sofa  and  hear  our  biographies  conclude  with  a  happy  ending,  which  was  the  pre-  sent  moment.  Mama  was  so  well  spoken  at  these  times  I  was  as  apt  as  the  poor  for-  eigners  to  be  caught  up  in  her  modesty,  so  seemingly  unconscious  was  she  of  the  greatheartedness  of  her.  They  by  and  large  did  not  see  through  to  her  self-  congratulation.  And  of  course  she  was  a  large  handsome  woman  to  look  at.  She  wore  her  simple  finery  for  these  first  im-  pressions,  a  plain,  pleated  gray  cotton  ‘  skirt  and  a  starched  white  shirtwaist  and  no  jewelry  but  the  gold  cross  on  a  chain  1  that  fell  between  her  bosoms,  and  her  hair  was  combed  upward  and  piled  atop  her  head  in  a  state  of  fetching  carelessness.  I  am  their  dream  of  Heaven  on  earth,  Mama  said  to  me  along  about  the  third  or  fourth.  Just  to  see  how  their  eyes  light  up  standing  beside  me  looking  out  over  their  new  land.  Puffing  on  their  pipes,  giving  me  a  glance  that  imagines  me  as  available  for  marriage-who  can  say  I  don't  give  value  in  return?  Well,  that  is  one  way  to  look  at  it,  I  said.  Don't  be  smug,  Earle.  You're  in  no  position.  Tell  me  an  easier  way  to  God's  blessed  Heaven  than  a  launch  fromHis  Heaven  on  earth.  I  don't  know  of  one.  nd  so  our  account  in  the  La  [REDACTED]  Savings  Bank  began  to  compound  nicely.  The  late-summer  rain  did  just  the  right  thing  for  the  corn,  as  even  I  could  see,  and  it  was  an  added  few  unantici-  pated  dollars  we  received  from  the  har-  vest.  If  there  were  any  complications  to  worry  about,  it  was  thatfool  Bent.  He  was  so  dumb  he  was  dangerous.  At  first,  Mama  indulged  his  jealousy;  I  could  hear  them  arguing  upstairs,  he  roaring  away  and  she  assuring  him  so  quietly  I  could  hardly  hear  what  she  said.  But  it  didn't  do  any  good.  When  one  of  the  Norwegies  arrived,  Bent  just  happened  to  be  in  the  yard  wherehe  could  have  a  good  look.  One  time  there  was  his  ugly  face  peering  through  the  porch  window.  Mama  sig-  nalled  me  with  a  slight  motion  of  her  head  and  I  quickly  got  up  and  pulled  the  shade.  It  was  true  Mama  might  lay  it  on  a  bit  thick.  She  might  coquette  with  this  one,  yes,  just  as  she  might  affect  a  widow's  piety  with  that  one.  It  all  depended  on  her  instinct  for  the  particular  man's  char-  acter.  It  was  easy  enough  to  make  believ-  ers  of  them;  if  I  had  to  judge  them  as  a  whole  I  would  say  they  were  simple  men,  not  exactly  stupid  but  lacking  command  of  our  language  and  with  no  wiles  of  their  own.  By  whatever  combination  of  sentiments  and  signatures,  she  never  had  anything  personal  intended  but  the  busi-  ness  at  hand,  the  step-by-step  encourage-  ment  of  the  cash  into  our  bank  account.  The  fool  Bent  imagined  Mama  look-  ing  for  a  husband  from  among  these  men.  His  pride  of  possession  was  of-  fended.  When  he  came  to  work  each  morning,  he  was  often  three  sheets  to  the  wind,  and  if  she  happened  not  to  in-  vite  him  upstairs  for  the  afternoon  siesta  he  would  go  home  in  a  state,  turning  at  the  road  to  shake  his  fist  and  shout  up  at  the  windows  before  he  set  out  for  town  in  his  crouching  stride.  Mama  said  to  me  on  one  occasion,  The  damned  fool  has  feelings.  Well,  that  had  not  occurred  to  me  in  the  way  she  meant  it,  and  maybe  in  that  moment  my  opinion  of  the  handyman  was  raised  to  a  degree.  Not  that  he  was  any  less  dangerous.  Clearly  he  had  never  learned  that  the  purpose  of  life  is  to  im-  prove  your  station  in  it.  It  was  not  an  idea  available  to  him.  Whatever  you  were,  that's  what  you  would  always  be.  So  he  saw  these  foreigners  who  couldn't  even  talk  right  not  only  as  usurpers  but  as  casting  a  poor  light  on  his  existence.  Were  I  in  his  position,  I  would  learn  from  the  example  of  these  immigrants,  and  think  what  I  could  do  to  put  together  a  few  dollars  and  buy  some  farmland  for  myself.  Any  normal  person  would  think  that.  Not  him.  The  only  idea  that  got  through  his  thick  skull  was  that  he  lacked  the  hopes  of  even  the  lowest  for-  eigner.  So  I  would  come  back  from  the  station  with  one  of  them  in  the  buggy  and  the  fellow  would  step  down,  his  plaid  suit  and  four-in-hand  and  his  derby  proposing  him  as  a  man  of  sufficient  means,  and  it  was  like  a  shadow  and  sud-  den  chilling  as  from  a  blackcloud  came  over  poor  Bent,  who  could  understand  only  that  it  was  too  late  for  him-every-  thing,  I  mean,  it  was  all  too  late.  And,  finally,  to  show  how  dumb  he  was,  he  didn't  realize  it  was  all  too  late  for  them,  too.  hen  everything  green  began  to  fade  |  off  yellow,  the  summer  rains  were  gone,  and  the  wind  off  the  prairie  blew  the  dried-out  topsoil  into  gusty  swirls  that  rose  and  fell  like  waves  in  a  dirt  sea.  At  night  the  windows  rattled.  At  first  frost,  the  two  little  boys  caught  the  croup.  Mama  pulled  the  Wanted  ad  back  from  the  out-of-state  papers,  saying  she  needed  to  catch  her  breath.  I  didn't  know  what  was  in  the  ledger,  but  her  saying  that  meant  our  financial  situation  was  improved.  And  now,  as  I  supposed  with  all  farm  families,  winter  would  be  a  time  for  rest.  Not  that  I  was  looking  forward  to  it.  l  How  could  I,  with  nothing  to  do?  I  wrote  a  letter  to  my  friend  Winifred  _  Czerwinska,  in  [REDACTED].  I  had  been  so  busy  until  now  I  hardly  had  the  time  to  be  lonely.  I  said  that  I  missed  her  and  hoped  before  too  long  to  come  back  to  city  life.  As  I  wrote,  a  rush  of  pity  for  myself  came  over  me  and  i  almost  sobbed  at  the  picture  in  my  mind  of  the  Elevated  trains  and  the  lights  of  the  theatre  marquees  and the  sounds  I  imagined  of  the  streetcars  and  even  of  the  lowings  of  the  abattoir  where  I  had  earned  my  wages.  But  I  only  said  I  hoped  she  would  write  me  back.  I  think  the  children  felt  the  same  way  about  this  cold  countryside.  They  had  been  displaced  from  a  greater  distance  away  in  a  city  larger  than  [REDACTED].  They  could  not  have  been  colder  huddled  at  some  steam  grate  than  they  were  now,  with  blankets  to  their  chins.  From  the  day  they  arrived,  they  wouldn't  leave  one  another's  side,  and  though  she  was  not  croupy  herself,  Sophie  stayed  with  the  two  boys  in  their  bedroom,  attending  to  their  hackings  and  wheezes  and  sleep-  ing  in  an  armchair  in  the  night.  Fannie  cooked  up  oatmeal  for  their  breakfasts  and  soup  for  their  dinners,  and  I  took  it  upon  myself  to  bring  the  tray  upstairs  in  order  to  get  them  talking  to  me,  since  we  were  all  related  in  asense  and  in  their  minds  I  would  be  an  older  boy  orphan,  taken  in  like  them.  But  they  would  not  talk  much,  only  answering  my  friendly  questions  yes  or  no  in  their  soft  voices,  looking  at  me  all  the  while  with  some  dark  expectation  in  their  eyes.  I  didn't  like  that.  I  knew  they  talked  among  themselves  all  the  time.  They  were  smart.  For  instance,  they  knew  enough  tostay  out  of  Bent's  way  when  he  was  drinki  But  when  he  was  sober  they  followed  him  around.  And  one  day  I  had  gone  into  the  stable,  to  harness  the  horse,  and  found  them  snooping  around  in  there,  so  they  were  not  without  unhealthy  cu-  riosity.  Then  there  was  the  unfortunate  matter  of  one  of  the  boys,  Joseph,  the  shorter,  darker  one-he  had  found  a  pocket  watch  and  watch  fob  in  the  yard,  and  when  I  said  it  was  mine  he  said  it  wasn't.  Whose  isit  then,  I  said.  I  know  it's  not  yours,  he  said  as  he  finally  handed  it  over.  To  make  more  ofan  issue  of  it  was  not  wise,  so  I  didn't,  but  I  hadn't  forgotten.  Mama  and  I  were  nothing  if  not  pru-  dent,  discreet,  and  in  full  consideration  of  the  feelings  of  others  in  all  our  ways  and  means,  but  I  believe  children  have  another  sense  that  enables  them  to  know  something  even  when  they  can't  say  what  it  is.  As  a  child  I  must  have  had  it,  but  of  course  it  leaves  you  as  you  grow  up,  it  may  be  a  trait  children  are  given  so  that  they  will  live  long  enough  to  grow  up.  But  I  didn't  want  to  think  the  worst.  I  reasoned  to  myself  that  were  I  plunked  down  so  far  away  from  my  streets  among  strangers  who  I  was  ordered  to  live  with  as  their  relation,  in  the  middle  of  this  flat  land  of  vast  empty  fields  that  would  stir  in  any  breast  nothing  but  a  recog-  nition  of  the  presiding  deafness  and  dumbness  of  the  natural  world,  I,  too,  would  behave  as  these  children  were  behaving.  A.  nd  then,  one  stinging  cold  day  in  ecember,  I  went  into  town  to  pick  up  a  package  from  the  post  office.  We  had  to  write  away  to  [REDACTED]  for  those  things  it  would  not  do  to  order  from  the  local  merchants.  The  package  was  in,  but  there  was  also  a  letter  addressed  to  me,  and  it  was  from  my  friend  Winifred  Czerwinska.  Winifred's  penmanship  made  me  smile;  the  letters  were  thin  and  scrawny  and  did  not  keep  to  a  straight  line  but  rose  and  fell  while  slanting  in  a  down-  ward  direction,  as  if  some  of  her  mortal  being  was  transferred  to  the  letter  paper.  And  I  knew  she  had  written  from  the  bakery  because  there  was  some  pow-  dered  sugar  in  the  folds.  Shewas  so  glad  to  hear  from  me  and  to  know  where  I  was.  She  thought  I  had  forgotten  her.  She  said  she  missed  me.  She  said  she  was  bored  with  her  job.  She  had  saved  her  money  and  hinted  that  she  would  be  glad  to  spend  it  on  some-  thing  interesting,  like  a  train  ticket.  My  ears  got  hot  reading  that.  In  my  mind  I  saw  Winifred  squinting  up  at  me,  I  could  almost  feel  her  putting  her  hand  under  my  shirt  to  feel  my  heart  the  way  she  liked  todo.  But  on  the  second  page  she  said  maybe  I  would  be  interested  in  news  from  the  old  neighborhood.  There  was  going  to  be  another  inquest,  or  maybe  the  same  one  reopened.  It  took  me  a  moment  to  understand  she  was  talking  about  the  Doctor,  Mama's  husband  in  [REDACTED].  The  Doc-  tor's  relatives  had  asked  for  his  body  to  be  dug  up.  Winifred  found  this  out  from  the  constable,  who  knocked  on  her  door  as  he  was  doing  with  everyone.  The  police  were  trying  to  find  out  where  we  had  gone,  Mama  and  I.  ‘  I  hadn't  gotten  your  letter  yet,  Wini-  fred  said,  so  I  didn't  have  to  lie  about  not  knowing  where  you  were.  |  ___I  raced  home.  Why  did  Winifred  think  she  would  otherwise  have  to  lie?  Did  she  believe  the  bad  gossip  about  us?  Was  she  like  the  rest  of  them?  I  thought  she  was  different.  I  was  disappointed  in  her,  and  then  I  was  suddenly  very  mad  at  Winifred.  Mama  read  the  letter  differently.  Your  Miss  Czerwinska  is  our  friend,  Earle.  That's  something  higher  than  a  lover.  If  I  have  worried  about  her  slow  eye  being  passed  on  to  the  children,  if  it  shows  up,  we  will  just  have  to  have  it  cor-  rected  with  surgery.  What  children,  I  said.  The  children  of  your  blessed  union  with  Miss  Czerwinska,  Mama  said.  Do  not  think  Mama  said  this  merely  to  keep  me  from  worrying  about  the  [REDACTED]  problem.  She  sees  things  before  other  people  see  them,  she  has  plans  going  out  through  all  directions  of  the  universe,  she  is  not  a  one-track  mind,  my  |  Aunt  Dora.  I  was  excited  by  her  inten-  tionsfor  me  as  if  I  had  thought  of  them  myself.  Perhaps  I  had  thought  of  them  myself  as  my  secret,  but  she  had  read  my  secret  and  was  now  giving  her  approval.  Because  I  certainly  did  like  Winifred  Czerwinska,  whose  lips  tasted  of  baked  goods  and  who  loved  it  so  when  I  fucked  into  her.  And  now  it  was  all  out  in  the  open,  and  Mama  not  only  knew  my  feel-  ings  but  expressed  them  for  me,  and  it  only  remained  for  the  young  lady  to  be  told  that  we  were  engaged.  I  thought  then  her  visiting  us  would  be  appropriate,  especially  as  she  was  pre-  pared  to  pay  her  own  way.  But  Mama  said,  Not  yet,  Earle,  everyone  in  the  house  knew  you  were  loving  her  up,  and  if  she  was  to  quit  her  job  in  the  bakery  and  pack  a  bag  andgo  down  to  the  train  station  even  the  [REDACTED]  police,  as  stupid  as  they  are,  they  would  put  two  and  two  together.  Of  course,  I  did  not  argue  the  point,  though  I  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  police  would  find  out  where  we  were  re-  gardless.  There  were  indications  all  over  the  place,  not  anything  as  difficult  as  a  clue  to  be  discerned  only  by  the  smartest  of  detectives,  but  bank-account  trans-  fers,  forwarding  mail,  and  such.  Why,  .  even  the  driver  who  took  us  to  the  station  might  have  picked  up  some  remark  of  ours,  and  certainly  a  ticket-seller  at  Union  Station  might  remember  us,  Mama  being  such  an  unusual-looking  woman,  very  decorative  and  regal  to  the  male  eye,  she  would  surely  be  remem-  bered  by  a  ticket-seller  who  would  not  see  her  like  from  one  year  to  the  next.  Maybe  a  week  went  by  before  Mama  expressed  an  opinion  about  the  prob-  lem.  You  can't  trust  people,  she  said,  it's  that  damn  sister  of  his  who  didn't  even  shed  a  tear  at  the  grave.  Why,  she  even  told  me  how  lucky  the  Doctor  was  to  have  found  me  so  late  in  life.  I  remember,  I  said.  And  how  I  had  taken  such  good  care  of  him.  Which  was  true,  I  said.  Relatives  are  the  fly  in  the  ointment,  Earle.  ama's  not  being  concerned  so  much  as  she  was  put  out  meant  that  we  had  more  time  than  I  would  have  thought.  Our  quiet  lives  of  winter  went  on  as  before,  though  as  I  watched  and  waited  she  was  obviously  thinking  things  through.  I  was  satisfied  to  wait  even  though  she  was  particularly  attentive  to  Bent,  inviting  him  in  for  dinner  as  if  he  was  not  some  hired  hand  but  a  neighbor-  .  ing  farmer.  And  I  had  to  sit  across  the  table  on  the  children's  side  and  watch  him  struggle  to  hold  the  silver  in  his  fist  and  slurp  his  soup  and  pity  him  the  way  he  had  pathetically  combed  his  hair  down  and  tucked  his  shirt  in  and  the  way  he  folded  his  fingers  under  when  he  hap-  pened  to  see  the  dirt  under  his  nails.  This  is  good  eats,  he  said  aloud  to  no  one  in  particular,  and  even  Fannie,  as  she  served,  gave  a  little  humph,  as  if,  despite  having  no  English,  she  understood  clearly  enough  how  out  of  place  he  was  here  at  our  table.  Well,  as  it  turned  out  there  were  things  I  didn't  know.  For  instance,  that  the  little  girl,  Sophie,  had  adopted  Bent,  or  maybe  made  a  pet  of  him  as  you  would  any  dumb  beast,  but  they  had  be-  come  friends  of  a  sort  and  she  had  con-  fided  to  him  remarks  she  overheard  in  the  household.  Maybe  if  she  was  mak-  ing  Mama  into  her  mama  she  thought  she  was  supposed  to  make  the  wretched  bum  of  a  hired  hand  into  her  father,  I  don't  know.  Anyway,  there  was  this  al-  lance  between  them  that  showed  to  me  that  she  would  never  rise  above  her  un-  savory  life  in  the  street  as  a  vagrant  child.  She  looked  like  an  angel,  with  her  little  bow  mouth  and  her  pale  face  and  gray  eyes  and  her  hair  in  a  single  long  braid  that  Mama  herself  did  every  morning,  but  she  had  the  hearing  of  a  bat  and  could  stand  on  the  second-floor  landing  and  listen  all  the  way  down  the  stairs  to  our  private  conversations  in  the  front  parlor.  Of  course,  I  knew  that  only  later.  It  was  Mama  who  learned  that  Bent  was  putting  it  about  to  his  drinking  cronies  in  town  that  the  Madame  Dora  they  thought  was  such  a  lady  was  his  love  slave  and  a  woman  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  law  back  in  [REDACTED].  Mama,  I  said,  I  have  never  liked  this  fool,  though  I  have  been  holding  my  ideas  in  abeyance  for  the  fate  I  have  in  mind  for  him.  But  here  he  accepts  our  wages  and  eats  our  food  then  goes  and  does  this?  Hush,  Earle,  not  yet,  not  yet,  she  said.  But  you  are  a  good  son  to  me,  and  I  can  take  pride  that  as  a  woman  alone  I  have  bred  in  you  the  highest  sense  of  family  honor.  Shesaw  how  troubled  I  was.  She  hugged  me.  Are  you  not  my  very  own  knight  of  the  Round  Table?  she  said.  But  I  was  not  comforted;  it  seemed  to  me  that  forces  were  massing  slowly  but  surely  against  us  in  a  most  menacing  way.  I  didn't  like  it.  I  didn't  like  it  that  we  were  going  along  as  if  everything  was  hunky-dory,  even  to  givinga  grand  Christmas  Eve  party  for  the  several  people  in  La  [REDACTED]  whom  Mama  had  come  to  know-how  they  all  drove  out  in  their  carriages  under  the  moon  that  was  so  bright  on  the  plains  of  snow  that  it  was  like  a  black  daytime,  the  local  banker,  the  merchants,  the  pas-  tor  of  the  First  Methodist  church,  and  other  such  dignitaries  and  their  wives.  The  spruce  tree  in  the  parlor  was  im-  ported  from  [REDACTED]  and  all  alight  with  candles,  and  the  three  children  were  dressed  for  the  occasion  and  went  around  with  cups  of  eggnog  for  the  assembled  guests.  I  knew  how  important  it  was  for  Mama  to  establish  her  reputation  as  a  person  of  class  who  had  flattered  the  community  by  joining  it,  but  all  these  people  made  me  nervous.  I  didn't  think  it  was  wise  having  so  many  rigs  parked  in  the  yard,  and  so  many  feet  tromping  about  thehouse,  or  going  out  to  the  privy.  Of  course,  it  was  alack  of  self-  confidence  on  my  part,  and  how  often  was  it  that  Mama  had  warned  me  noth-  ing  was  more  dangerous  than  that,  be-  cause  it  was  translated  into  the  face  and  physique  as  wrongdoing,  or  at  least  de-  fenselessness,  which  amounted  to  the  same  thing.  But  I  couldn't  help  it.  I  re-  membered  the  pocket  watch  that  the  little  snivelling  Joseph  had  found  and  held  up  to  me,  swinging  it  from  its  fob,  I  some-  times  made  mistakes,  I  washuman,  and  who  knew  what  other  mistakes  lay  about  for  someone  to  find  and  hold  up  to  me.  But  now  Mama  looked  at  me  over  the  heads  of  her  guests.  The  children's  tutor  had  brought  her  harmonium  and  we  all  gathered  around  the  fireplace  for  some  carol  singing.  Given  Mama's  look,  1  sang  the  loudest.  I  have  a  good  tenor  voice  and  I  sent  it  aloft  to  turn  heads  and  make  the  La  43616e616461rs  smile.  I  imagined  decking  the  halls  with  boughs  of  holly  until  there  was  kindling  and  brush  enough  to  set  the  whole  place  ablaze.  ust  after  the  New  Year,  a  man  appeared  at  our  door,  another  Swede  with  his  Gladstone  bag  in  his  hand.  We  had  not  run  the  Wanted  ad  all  winter,  and  Mama  was  not  going  to  be  home  to  him,  but  this  fellow  was  the  brother  of  one  of  them  who  had  responded  to  it  the  previ-  ous  fall.  He  gave  his  name,  Henry  Lund-  gren,  and  said  his  brother  Per  Lundgren  had  not  been  heard  from  since  leaving  [REDACTED]  to  look  into  the  prospect  here.  Mama  invited  him  in  and  sat  him  down  and  had  Fannie  bring  in  some  tea.  The  minute  I  looked  at  him  I  remem-  bered  the  brother.  Per  Lundgren  had  been  all  business.  He  did  not  blush  or  go  shy  in  Mama's  presence,  nor  did  he  ogle.  Instead  he  asked  sound  questions.  He  had  also  turned  the  conversation  away  from  his  own  circumstances,  family  rela-  tions,  and  soon,  which  Mama  put  peo-  ple  through  in  order  to  learn  who  was  back  home  and  might  be  waiting.  Most  of  the  immigrants,  if  they  had  family,  it  was  still  in  the  Old  Country,  but  you  had  to  make  sure.  Per  Lundgren  was  close-  mouthed,  but  he  did  admit  to  being  un-  married,  and  so  we  decided  to  go  ahead.  And  here  was  Henry,  the  brother  he  had  never  mentioned,  sitting  stiffly  in  the  wing  chair  with  his  arms  folded  and  the  aggrieved  expression  on  his  face.  They  had  the  same  reddish  fair  skin,  with  a  long  jaw  and  thinning  blond  hair,  and  pale  woeful-looking  eyes  with  blond  eyelashes.  I  would  say  Henry  here  was  the  younger  by  a  couple  of  years,  but  he  turned  out  to  be  as  smart  as  Per,  or  maybe  even  smarter.  He  did  not  seem  to  be  as  convinced  of  the  sincerity  of  Mama's  expressions  of  concern  as  I  would  have  liked.  He  said  his  brother  had  made  the  trip  to  La  [REDACTED]  with  other  stops  planned  afterward  to  two  more  business  prospects,  a  farm  some  twenty  miles  west  of  us  and  another  in  [REDACTED].  Henry  had  travelled  to  these  places,  which  is  how  he  learned  that  his  brother  never  arrived  for  his  appointments.  He  said  Per  had  been  travelling  with  something  over  two  thou-  sand  dollars  in  his  money  belt.  My  goodness,  that  is  a  lot  ofmoney,  Mama  said.  Our  two  savings,  Henry  said.  He  comes  here  to  see  your  farm.  I  have  the  advertisement,  he  said,  pulling  a  piece  of  newspaper  from  his  pocket.  This  is  the  first  place  he  comes  to  see.  I'm  not  sure  he  ever  arrived,  Mama  said.  We've  had  many  inquiries.  He  arrived,  Henry  Lundgren  said.  \  He  arrived  the  night  before  so  he  will  be  |  on  time  the  next  morning.  This  is  my  brother.  It  is  important  to  him,  even  if  it  costs  money.  He  sleeps  at  the  hotel  in  La  [REDACTED].  How  could  you  know  that?  Mama  said.  I  know  from  the  guestbook  in  the  La  [REDACTED]  hotel,  where  I  find  his  signature,  Henry  Lundgren  said.  ama  said,  All  right,  Earle,  we've  got  a  lot  more  work  to  do  before  we  get  out  of  here.  We're  leaving?  What  is  today,  Monday.  I  want  to  be  on  the  road  Thursday  the  latest.  I  thought  with  the  inquest  matter  back  there  we  were  O.K.  at  least  to  the  spring.  |  This  business  of  a  brother  pushes  things  up  a  bit.  I  am  ready  to  leave.  I  know  you  are.  You  have  not  enjoyed  the  farm  life,  have  you?  If  that  Swede  had  told  us  he  had  a  brother,  he  wouldn't  be  where  he  is  today.  Too  smart  forhis  own  good,  he  was.  Where  is  Bent?  She  went  out  to  the  yard.  He  was  standing  at  the  corner  of  the  barn,  pee-  ing  a  hole  in  the  snow.  She  told  him  to  take  the  carriage  and  go  to  La  [REDACTED]  and  pick  up  halfa  dozen  gallon  cans  of  kerosene  at  the  hardware.  They  were  to  be  put  on  our  credit.  It  occurred  to  me  that  we  still  had  a  goodly  amount  of  our  wintersupply  of  kerosene.  I  said  nothing.  Mama  had  gone  into  action,  and  I  knew  from  expe-  rience  that  everything  would  come  clear  by  and  by.  And  then,  late  that  night,  when  I  was  in  the  basement,  she  called  downstairs  to  me  that  Bent  was  coming  down  to  help.  I  don't  need  help,  thank  you,  Aunt  Dora,  I  said,  so  astonished  that  my  throat  went  dry.  At  that  they  both  clomped  down  the  stairs  and  back  to  thepotato  bin,  where  I  was  working.  Bent  was  grinning  that  toothy  grin  of  his  as  always,  to  remind  me  he  had  certain  privileges.  Show  him,  Mama  said  to  me.  Go  ahead,  it's  all  right,  she  assured  me.  So  I  did,  I  showed  him.  I  showed  him  something  to  hand.  I  opened  the  top  of  the  gunnysack  and  he  looked  down  it.  The  fool's  grin  disappeared,  the  un-  shaven  face  went  pale,  and  he  started  to  breathe  through  his  mouth.  He  gasped,  he  couldn't  catch  his  breath,  a  weak  cry  came  from  him,  and  he  looked  at  me  in  my  rubber  apron  and  his  knees  buckled  and  he  fainted  dead  away.  Mama  and  I  stood  over  him.  Now  he  knows,  I  said.  He  will  tell  them.  Maybe,  Mama  said,  but  I  don't  think  so.  He's  now  one  of  us.  We  have  just  made  him  an  accessory.  An  accessory?  After  the  fact.  But  he'll  be  more  than  that  by  the  time  I  get  through  with  him,  she  said.  We  threw  some  water  on  him  and  lifted  him  to  his  feet.  Mama  took  him  up  to  the  kitchen  and  gave  him  a  couple  of  quick  swigs.  Bent  was  thoroughly  cowed,  and  when  I  came  upstairs  and  told  him  to  follow  me  he  jumped  out  of  his  chair  as  if  shot.  I  handed  him  the  gunnysack.  It  was  not  that  heavy  for  someone  like  him,  he  held  it  in  one  hand  at  arm's  length,  asif  it  would  bite.  I  led  him  to  the  old  dried-up  well  behind  the  house,  where  he  dropped  it  down  into  the  muck.  I  poured  the  quicklime  in  and  then  we  lowered  some  rocks  down  and  nailed  the  well  cover  back  on,  and  Bent  the  handyman,  he  never  said  a  word  but  just  stood  there  shivering  and  wait-  ing  for  me  to  tell  him  what  to  do  next.  Mama  had  thought  of  everything.  Shehad  paid  cash  down  for  the  farm  but  somewhere  or  other  got  the  La  [REDACTED]  bank  to  give  her  a  mortgage,  and  so  when  the  house  burned  it  was  the  bank's  money.  She  had  been  withdrawing  from  the  account  all  winter,  and  now  that  we  were  closing  shop  she  mentioned  to  me  the  actual  sum  of  our  wealth  for  the  first  time.  I  was  very  moved  to  be  confided  in,  like  her  partner.  But  really  it  was  the  small  touches  that  showed  her  genius.  For  instance,  she  had  noted  immediately  of  the  inquiring  |  brother,  Henry,  that  he  was  in  height  not  much  taller  than  I  am.  Just  as  in  Fannie  the  housekeeper  she  had  hired  a  woman  of  a  girth  similar  to  her  own.  Meanwhile,  at  her  instruction,  I  was  letting  my  dark  beard  grow  out.  And  at  the  end,  before     she  had  Bent  go  up  and  down  the  stairs  |  pouring  the  kerosene  in  every  room,  she  made  sure  he  was  good  and  drunk.  He  would  sleep  through  the  whole  thing  in  the  stable,  and  that's  where  they  found  him,  with  his  arms  wrapped  like  a  lover's  arms  around  an  empty  can  of  kerosene.  he  plan  was  for  me  to  stay  behind  for  a  few  days  just  to  keep  an  eye  on  things.  We  have  pulled  off  something  prodigious  that  will  go  down  in  the  books,  Mama  said.  But  that  means  all  sorts  of  people  will  be  flocking  here  and  you  can  never  tell  when  the  unexpected  arises.  Of  course,  everything  will  be  fine,  but  if  there's  something  more  we  have  to  do  you  will  know  it.  Yes,  Aunt  Dora.  Aunt  Dora  was  just  for  here,  Earle.  Yes,  Mama.  Of  course,  even  if  there  was  no  need  to  keep  an  eye  out  you  would  still  have  to  wait  for  Miss  Czerwinska.  This  is  where  I  didn't  understand  her  thinking.  The  one  bad  thing  in  all  of  this  is  that  Winifred  would  read  the  news  in  the  [REDACTED]  papers.  There  was  no  safe  way  I  could  get  in  touch  with  her  now  that  I  was  dead.  That  was  it,  that  was  the  end  of  it.  But  Mama  had  said  it     wasn't  necessary  to  get  in  touch  with  |  Winifred.  This  remark  made  me  angry.  You  said  you  liked  her,  I  said.  I  do,  Mama  said.  You  called  herour  friend,  I  said.  She  is.  I  know  it  can't  be  helped,  but  I   wanted  to  marry  Winifred  Czerwinska.  What  can  she  do  now  but  dry  her  tears  and  maybe  light  a  candle  for  me  and  go  out  and  find  herself  another  boyfriend?  Oh,  Earle,  Earle,  Mama  said,  you  know  nothing  about  a  woman's  heart.       But  anyhow  I  followed  the  plan  to  stay  on  a  few  days,  and  it  wasn't  that  hard  with  a  dark  stubble  and  a  different  hat  and  a  long  coat.  There  were  such  crowds  nobody  would  notice  anything  that  wasn't  what  they'd  come  to  see,  that's  what  a  fever  was  in  these  souls.     Everyone  was  streaming  down  the  road  to  see  the  tragedy,  they  were  in  their  car-  riages  and  they  were  walking  and  stand-  ing  up  in  drays,  people  were  paying  for  anything  with  wheels  to  get  them  out  there  from  town,  and  after  the  newspa- pers  ran  the  story  they  were  coming  not just  from  La  [REDACTED]  and  the  neighboring  farms  but  from  out  of  state  in  their  au-  tomobiles  and  on  the  train  from  Indi-  anapolis  and  [REDACTED].  And  with  the  crowds  came  the  hawkers  to  sell  sand-  wiches  and  hot  coffee,  and  peddlers  with  balloons  and  little  flags  and  whirligigs  for  the  children.  Someone  had  taken  photographs  of  the  laid-out  skeletons  in  their  crusts  of  burlap  and  printed  them  up  as  postcards  for  mailing,  and  these  were  going  like  hotcakes.  The  police  had  been  inspired  by  the  charred  remains  they  found  in  the  base-  ment  to  look  down  the  well  and  then  to  dig  up  the  chicken  yard  and  the  floor  of  the  stable.  They  had  brought  around  a  rowboat  to  dredge  the  water  hole.  They  were  really  very  thorough,  theykept  making  their  discoveries  and  laying  out  what  they  found  in  neat  rows  inside  the  barn.  They  had  called  in  the  county  sheriff  and  his  men  to  help  with  the  crowds,  and  they  got  some  kind  of  order  going,  keeping  people  in  lines  to  pass  them  by  the  open  barn  doors  so  every-  one  would  have  a  turn,  it  was  the  only  choicethe  police  had  if  they  didn't  want  a  riot,  but  even  then  the  oglers  went  around  back  all  the  way  up  the  road  to  get  into  the  procession  again-it  was  the  two  headless  remains  of  Madame  Dora  and  her  nephew  that  drew  the  most  at-  tention,  and  of  coursethe  wrapped  bun-  dles  of  the  little  ones.  There  was  such  heat  from  this  popu-  lation  that  the  snow  was  gone  from  the  ground,  and  on  the  road  and  in  the  yard  and  behind  the  house  and  even  into  the  fields  where  the  trucks  andautomo-  biles  were  parked  everything  had  turned  to  mud  so  that  it  seemed  even  the  season  was  transformed.  I  just  stood  and  watched  and  took  it  all  in,  and  it  was  amazing  to  see  so  many  people  with  this  happy  feel-  ing  of  spring,  as  if  a  population  of  crea-  tures  had  formed  up  out  of  the  mud  es-  pecially  for  the  occasion.  That  didn't  help  the  smell  any,  though  no  one  seemed  to  notice.  The  house  itself  made  me  sad  to  look  at,  a  smoking  ruin  that  you  could  see  the  sky  through.  I  had  become  fond  of  that  house.  A  piece  of  the  floor  hung  down  from  the  third  story,  where  I  had  my  room.  I  disapproved  of  people  pull-  ing  off  the  loose  brickwork  to  take  home  for  a  souvenir,  there  was  a  lot  of  laughing  and  shouting,  but  of  course  I  did  not  say  anything.  In  fact,  I  was  able  to  rummage  around  the  ruin  without  drawing  atten-  tionto  myself,  and  sure  enough  I  found  something-it  was  the  syringe,  for  which  I  knew  Mama  would  be  thankful.  I  overheard  some  conversation  about  Mama,  what  a  terrible  end  for  such  a  fine  lady  who  loved  children  was  the  gist  of  it.  I  thought  as  time  went  on,  in  the  history  of  our  life  of  La  [REDACTED]  I  myself  would  not  be  remembered  very  clearly.  Mama  would  become  famous  in  the  pa-  pers  as  a  tragic  victim  mourned  for  her  good  works,  whereas  I  would  be  noted  down  only  as  a  dead  nephew.  Even  if  the  past  caught  up  with  her  reputation  and  she  was  slandered  as  the  suspect  widow  of  several  insured  husbands,  I  would  still  be  in  the  shadows.  This  seemed  to  me  an  unjust  outcome  considering  the  con-  tribution  I  had  made,  and  I  found  my-  self  for  a  moment  resentful.  Who  was  I  going  to  be  in  life  now  that  I  was  dead  and  not  even  Winifred  Czerwinska  was  there  to  bend  over  for  me?  Back  in  town  at  night,  I  went  behind  the  jail  to  the  cell  window  where  Bent  wasand  I  stood  on  a  boxand  called  to  him  softly,  and  when  his  bleary  face  ap-  peared  I  ducked  to  the  side  where  he  couldn't  see  me  and  whispered  these  words:  &quot;Now  you've  seen  itall,  Bent.  Now  you  have  seen  everything.&quot;  Istayed  in  town  to  meet  every  train  that  came  through  from  [REDACTED].  I  could  do  that  withoutfear-there  was  such  a  heavy  traffic  all  around,  such  swirls  of  people,  all  of  them  too  excited  and  thrilled  to  take  notice  of  someone  standing  quietly  ina  doorway  or  sit-  ting  on  the  curb  in  the  alley  behind  the  station.  And,  as  Mama  told  me,  I  knew  nothing  about  the  heart  of  a  woman,  because  all  at  once  there  was  Wini-  fred  Czerwinska,  stepping  down  from  the  coach,  her  suitcase  in  her  hand.  I  lost  her  for  a  moment  through  the  steam  from  the  locomotive  blowing  across  the  platform,  but  then  there  she  was  in  her  dark  coat  and  a  little  hat  and  the  most  forlorn  expression  I  have  ever  seen  on  a  human  being.  I  waited  till  the  other  people  had  drifted  away  before  I  approached  her.  Oh  my,  how  grief  stricken  she  looked,  standing  by  herself  on  the  train  platform  with  her  suitcase  and  big  tears  rolling  down  her  face.  Clearly  she  had  no  idea  what  to  do  next,  where  togo,  who  to  speak  to.  So  she  had  not  been  able  to  help  herself  when  she  heard  the  terrible  news.  And  what  did  that  mean  except  that  if  she  was  drawn  to  me  in  my  death  she  truly  loved  me  in  my  life.  She  was  so  small  and  ordinary  in  appearance,  how  wonderful  that  I  was  the  only  person  to  know  that  under  her  clothes  and  inside  her  little  rib  cage  the  heart  of  a  great  lover  was  pump-  ing  away.  ell,  there  was  a  bad  moment  or  two.  I  had  to  help  her  sit  down.  I  am  here,  Winifred,  it's  all  right,  I  told  her  over  and  over  again,  and  I  held  my  arms  around  her  shaking,  sobbing  wracked  body.  I  wanted  us  to  follow  Mama  to  Cal-  ifornia,  you  see.  I  thought,  given  all  the  indications,  Winifred  would  accept  her-  self  as  an  accessory  after  the  fact.  