THE GUARDIANS
By John Updike

Little Lee's soft brain swam into self-consciousness in a household of four adults, with carpets that smelled of shoe soles, and a coal furnace that chuffed in the cellar, and dusty front windows that gave onto the back side of a privet hedge and a street where horsedrawn wagons sometimes clip-clopped along among the swishing automobiles. Lee heard them early in the morning: farmers going to market. On the opposite side of the street, asphalt-shingled row houses stood above concrete retaining walls, looking down at Lee's house like the choirs of angels in the songs at Christmas. Christmas was a time when a sad white light invaded the house and made the people within it very clear: Grampop, Granny, Daddy, and Lee's mother, who was, as it were, too important to have a name.
Grampop was remarkably old, even when Lee was a baby. He would sit on the cane-backed sofa and hold stately discourse there with a visitor equally old, crossing and recrossing his legs, exposing a length of hairless white shin and the high black top of a buttoned shoe. Sometimes above the shoe Lee saw not white skin but the white of long cotton underwear, which only very oldfashioned country people wore. Unlike Daddy, Grampop wore a hat—gray, with a sweat-darkened band inside and two big dimples on the crown where he pinched it. When he entered the house, he would take the hat off and hold it pinched delicately between his thumb and forefinger; he would softly gesture with the hat in his hand as if it were a precious extension of himself, like his voice or his money. Once, Lee learned early, Grampop had had a great deal more money than he did now. These were hard times, depressed times, though the house was big and long, in its long, hedged lawn: flowering shrubs in front and on the sides, and a grass terrace behind, a lawn broken by cherry trees and an English-walnut tree, and then a vegetable garden, a pear tree, a burning-barrel, and a chicken house. Grampop had built the chicken house when he moved here. He smoked cigars, but his daughter, Lee's mother, couldn't stand the smell in the house, so he smoked outdoors, sitting in a lawn chair, or standing under a tree in a sweater, one elbow cupped in the hand of an arm, surveying the world around him, a world on which his grip had faltered.
Granny, too, had lost her grip; her hands were bent as if holding something invisible, and waggled with a disease that she had. Yet still she kept busy, cooking the meals and weeding and hoeing in the garden and watching out for Lee's welfare. When, growing inch by inch, he finally managed to climb up onto the lowest branch of the walnut tree, she stood directly below him and told him to get down. She wore glasses that sat cockeyed on her little hook nose, and these glinted in the afternoon light, tilted up toward Lee while he wondered if he should tell her that, though he had discovered he could get up, he hadn't yet learned how to get down. She looked very far beneath him. Her white hair flew out from her sharp small face like an exploding milkweed.
It was she who pointed out that certain of the neighborhood children—the Halloran brother and sister, especially—were not suitable playmates. It was she who beheaded the chickens, on a log that stood upright in the chicken yard. It was she who, when Lee, on a sudden unstoppable bidding from within, went to the bathroom in his shorts, cleaned the yellow mess off his legs and told him it didn't matter. Granny, Lee's mother let him know, hadn't always been feeble: she had run Grampop's tobacco farm for him in their country days and had been one of the first women in the township to get a driver's license.
The family had owned a car when Lee was born, a green Model A Ford, but before he was old enough to go to kindergarten the car had disappeared and was not replaced with another. That was how poor they had become. They were so poor that Grampop went to work for the town highway crew, and Granny cleaned the houses of her relatives—she had many; she had been the baby of twelve children—to bring in a few extra dollars.
Daddy worked, too, of course; he put on one of his suits every weekday and went off into the world beyond the hedge. But the work he did there—adding up figures for other men, bookkeeping for a fine-gauge-silk-stocking factory—didn't bring very much money home. The men who worked on the factory floor, as machinists and fullfashion knitters, made more money, Lee became aware, as he began to attend school with their children. These fathers were robust, cheerfully rude men with a pleased look about their eyes and a teasing crease about their mouths that Daddy didn't have.
Also, he didn't have a belly, the way workers and farmers did. Even Grampop had a belly, on which he would elegantly rest the wrist of the hand holding his cigar while he stood in the yard smoking. Often Lee and his grandfather were the only family members out there as the warm spring night crept in; there was a dewy weight to it that pressed a wave of sweetness from the darkened lily-of-the-valley bed, or caused a scattering of cherry blossoms to fall. The old man would tilt his head as if to catch a bird's last chirpings; his glowing cigar end would somersault as he tossed it into the peonies. It did not occur to Lee that he was the reason his grandfather stood there—"keeping an eye on the youngster."
It did occur to Lee, though not in words he could say, that he was a bright spot in a demoralized household. In the houses across the street, the narrow row houses lined up like gaunt, asphalt-shingled angels, the children outnumbered the parents, and the sounds of screeching and weeping that escaped the walls showed that a constant battle was being waged on near-equal terms. In Lee's house, the only sounds of battle arose between his parents; some complaint, or set of complaints, lay between them. Otherwise, he felt the four adults as sides of a perfect square, with a diagonal from each corner to a central point. He was that point, protected on all sides, loved from every direction.
Yet there were scrapes, scoldings, childish tantrums, vows to kill himself to make everyone else sorry, ways in which he let his guardians down. Once, irritated at how his hair kept falling over his eyes as he tried to copy a comic strip while lying on the floor, he had taken his toy scissors and cut some off; his mother acted as if he had cut off a finger or his nose. Haircuts, in general, were dangerous. The chief barber was a rabid Roosevelt-hater, for one thing, and gusts of shrill debate swirled around Lee's hot ears as he huddled embarrassed on the chair, on a board laid across the broad porcelain arms. For another thing, his mother was usually dissatisfied with the haircut when he came home. Of the three barbers in the shop, only Jake, the Roosevelt-hater, could cut Lee's hair to her satisfaction. When he pointed out to her that Jake's political opinions were the opposite of theirs, she said yes, but he was an artist.

His mother had this strange idea of art, of artistry, on her mind. She would sit crayoning with Lee on the floor, her weight gracefully propped on her arm, her legs folded within her nubbly wool skirt, but for the knees, white and round, peeping from underneath. She praised Lee's little drawings beyond, he felt, their worth—or, rather, she penetrated into that secret place within him where they were valued very highly.

There was something disproportionate, something hotter than comfortable, about his mother. She had copper-colored hair and freckles and a temper. Sometimes after a fight that had rattled through the house all one Sunday afternoon, his father would say to Lee, with a certain sheepish pride, "Your mother is a real redhead." When Lee was even a little late coming home for supper from playing in the neighborhood, anger would show in a red V between her eyebrows and at the sides of her neck. More than once she whipped him, with a switch cut from the base of the pear tree, on the backs of his legs. It not only hurt but felt like a forced, unnatural exercise; it made him want to keep his distance. He liked her best when she sat alone at the dining-room table playing solitaire under the stained-glass chandelier shade, focussing on the turn of the cards, or when she pushed the lawnmower around the yard like a man, asking Lee to run ahead and lift up the "skirts" of the bushes, so she could push the mower beneath them. He must have been very young, four or five, when he thought this was fun—when he was flattered to play this small part in taming the property, which seemed huge, with its shaggy sweeping bushes (hydrangeas, bridal wreath, viburnum) encroaching greedily upon each other and upon the lawn, making a maze of secret shady spaces, dirt-floored caves where not even a weed could grow. He liked hiding in these caves, getting his shorts dirty.
At about the age of six, when first grade was imposing literacy upon him, he created a comic-art masterpiece—a drawing of their side hedge where the brick walk made a gap, one leafy edge slit so that a face on a long neck could be poked through, back and forth, imitating Betty Jean Halloran peeking to see if he was at home, available to play. She was tall for her age, and shy, perhaps sensing his grandmother's disapproval of her family, which lived down the street in a house without plumbing, just a pump on the porch. Lee expected this paper trick to please his mother, but she, studying the drawing and making the head poke out once or twice, conveyed a faint sad sense that he had been cruel, because Betty Jean after all was a faithful friend, one of the few friends he had.
Once, when Betty Jean's mother was giving her a bath in the kitchen—the house had no bathtub, so she stood naked on a chair while her mother rubbed her with a soapy washcloth—Lee, quiet on the back porch, spied through the crack between the ajar door and its wooden jamb. He was astonished when Mrs. Halloran, without looking up from caressing Betty Jean with the washcloth, announced to him, "Lee, do you think that's very polite?" How had she seen him through the door? Had his spying eye gleamed in the crack? He was embarrassed, humiliated, yet how else was he to see what a naked girl looked like, since he had no siblings of his own?
This lack was part of the soreness, the murmuring quarrel, between Daddy and his mother. Perhaps she would have been better off marrying one of the big-bellied full-fashion knitters; at least there would have been less worry about money. But no, there was something sensitive and wary in her nature that shunned the world around her. Daddy did not shun it—on days when he didn't do accounting he went off to teach Sunday school or watch a Saturday softball game on the school grounds—but he always returned, and he indulged his wife and son in their conspiracy about art, a way to push back at the world without touching it. "It's miles over my head," he would say, obviously not believing it, believing instead that it was beneath him, who dwelt among firm, clear numbers.
What he did not know but Lee did and his mother sensed was that crayoning was Lee's way of getting away from her, from all his guardians, into a realm quite his own, where love did not fall upon him but came down from him, onto the little creatures, the humanoid animals, the comically unchanging comicstrip characters that he copied, his nose a few inches from the carpet with its comforting whiff of shoe leather.
When Grampop entertained his old-man guests on the cane-backed sofa, they sometimes, in their mutual pleasure at the conversation, kicked up little balls of fluff from the same faded carpet. Lee's mother complained about this, her face getting not quite as red as it did over the smell of cigars. Lee felt her heat, the afterglow of her unpredictable passions, most intensely in the piano room, which blended into the living room through a broad archway, with side pillars and ornate white stick-and-beadwork overhead. This carpentry was the grandest thing about the house, and his failure to succeed at piano lessons, though he took them for years, was the most distinct disappointment he made his mother suffer. The piano area, with its sheet music and brass candlesticks on top of the upright, belonged to his mother; the kitchen, with its warping linoleum and black stone sink, to Granny; the front room, with its sagging sofa and dusty view of the neighbors, to Grampop; and the front vestibule and door to Daddy, who was always going out or coming in.
As Lee lay on the carpet, his guardians in their attitudes of suspended discomfort felt like the four corners of the ceiling far above him. The shelter they had formed held through Depression and world war, and even his adolescence and his becoming the tallest member of the household did not disturb the configuration, though Grampop underwent a cataract operation that made him hold his head very still while Lee read the newspaper headlines to him, and Granny stooped and her hands shook more and more and Parkinson's disease slowly stopped up her speech, and his father went gray and had to find another accounting job when the hosiery mills closed, and his mother put on weight, and the bushes in the yard grew taller, and Betty Jean became a beauty with a racy reputation and had long since stopped peeking around the hedge.
He had always dreaded one of his guardians dying, disappearing into an unbelievable nothingness, ripping away a corner of his childhood shelter. As if knowing this, they contrived to stay alive until he was safely away at college and beyond. They protected him to the last from anything too ugly or frightening. They died, at tactfully spaced-out intervals, in the order of their births. Grampop was over ninety, and healthy and walking to within two days of his death; he went to bed on the first day, and on the second believed the bed was on fire and, in escaping it, fell dead to the floor. Lee was at Cornell when he heard about this. Granny lingered in bed some years, unable to talk or sit up by herself finally, and was found one morning by her daughter, asleep for good, her sharp nose and deep sockets smoothed into a youthful beauty of the bone. Lee by now was pursuing an M.F.A. in [REDACTED] City. For some years, Daddy shuttled in and out of hospitals with angina, and heart attacks, and his young doctor confided to the widow that he "gave them all a rough hour" at the end. Lee was living in [REDACTED] at the time, pursuing art and his identity, and was relieved that he could not get to the bedside in time to see his father struggling. His mother, like her father, dropped to the floor one day—the kitchen floor, the dishes just done. She had moved from the old house to a newer, smaller one, all on one level; her red hair went white and she became mild and whimsical and goodtempered in her solitude, and never rebuked Lee for the rarity of his visits. Her once-a-week cleaning lady saw the body through the back-door window, and the police and undertakers and clergy did the rest, while Lee flew in from [REDACTED], where he had moved when [REDACTED] didn't work out.

Now all were gone. Of that coal-heated mid-twentieth-century household, only Lee was left. The walnut icebox, the black sink, the warping kitchen linoleum in the pattern of little interlocking bricks, the stained-glass diningroom chandelier shade, the front-hall newel post with ribs around it like the rings of Saturn or Plastic Man's telltale stripes, the narrow back stairs that nobody used and became a storage space choked with cardboard boxes and appliances to be repaired someday, the little windowless stair landing where they huddled in the pitch dark during mock air raids, the long side porch where bums knocked for a handout, the pansy-faced calico cat that came to the porch to be fed but was too wild to come into the house, the white wicker lawn furniture where Grampop would sit in the twilight with his cigar, watching the fireflies gather—only Lee was left to remember any of this.
As part of his self-consciousness, while old age overtook his infant brain, he made conscientious efforts to envision his situation as science proved it to be. He would look at the half-moon and try to see it not as the goddess Diana or as a comic-book decal but as a sphere hung in empty space, its illumined side an infallible indication of where the sun was shining on the other side of the earth's huge dark round mass. He tried to imagine the surface under his feet as curved, and hurtling backward toward sunrise. With a yet greater effort, he tried to imagine empty space in something like its actual enormity, each star an island light-years from the next, and the near-absolute interstellar vacuum containing virtual particles that somehow generated an energy the reverse of gravity, pushing the stars and the galaxies faster and faster apart, until the universe became invisible to itself, cold and dark forever and ever. He tried to picture organic life as Darwin and his followers described it, not as a ladder of being, climbing toward ever more complex and spiritual forms, but as a diffuse soup of blind genes whose simple existence within however ignoble and grotesque and murderous and parasitic a form tended to perpetuation of those forms, without the least taint of purpose or aspiration. It was all in the numbers, as Daddy had said. What was was, and would tend to be the same, generation after generation.
There was comfort in this, Lee thought. His guardians were still with him. They were within him, extending their protection and care. From Grampop—who had a quaint, tentative gesture of lifting his thin-skinned hand as if to bestow a blessing or to ask for a halt from the powers that be—he had inherited longevity, and from Granny a country toughness, a wiry fibre that had only slowly bent beneath age and disease. His father's remote realism was his, and his mother's lively, dissatisfied heat. His guardians were within him, propelling him like a tiny human crew within a tall, walking armature of DNA. They would not steer him wrong; his death would come tactfully, and was not close. 

