DIGESTIONS
By Jim Crace

MUSSELS ON THE HOUSE
Here is an average restaurant. Each Sunday, we take our seats to order omelettes and to watch the chef present our mussels to the visitors. He has become the weekend entertainment of the town. There's nothing else to do—except in church, or ten miles up the coast, away from friends and family.
Last summer (so the chef reports), a politician from the state drove through. The woman with him couldn't have been his wife. They sat right there, next to the window with a sideways view down to the port. He ordered local produce for her ("I always dine from the region," he said. "That's how you end up with the simplest and the freshest food." The cheapest, too). They'd have the brandied aubergines to start with, oily, cold, lascivious—and then the pork stew and a bottle of the earthy hillside wine that no one from the region drinks. You can imagine what he had in mind for her—what with the alcohol, the aphrodisiacs, his hand pushed out across the tabletop to stroke her painted fingernails, the showing off.
A little ancient jealousy from Chef, perhaps, explains what happened next. The politician only wanted to impress his guest and not be made a fool of by the food. He had a point. The wine bottle was insufficiently chilled, he complained. The bread (served in one of the yellow, woven-plastic baskets that gave the restaurant its name) was "not today's." The aubergine was bitter. Had no one in the kitchens degorged it with salt before they dished it up? Did they employ a comic or a cook?
The waiter at that time (a student long since gone up north with one of our town's better-looking girls) returned the wine and the dish of aubergine to the kitchens. "I heard!" the chef said. "So give them my apologies. And they can have two dozen mussels on the house."
Oh, surely everybody knows that our mussels can be dangerous, particularly at that time of the year. The tides are far too weak in summer to clear the soup of sewage from the banks. Dead shellfish decompose more thoroughly when it is warm. So was it just bad luck that nearly all the mussels that finished up on that free dish were treacherous?
Now, this is supposition. No one truly knows exactly how the lovers spent their afternoon. It's possible, of course, that their intestines had been lined with steel and that the sifted toxins of our lavatories passed through without effect. But where's the anecdote in that? We'd rather have the chef's report, in which (and God knows how Chef knew) the politician and his lunch guest had hardly reached the hotel down the coast when justice called. It might have seemed to other guests or to the ever-patient clerk that their eagerness to reach the room was simple summer lust. But no, they were too pinched about the haunches and too self-involved to be true lovers. And no, his hands were shaking at the lock with something more disruptive—and less fleeting—than desire. Inside at last, alone, they would have tussled for the sink and toilet seat, her skirt half up, his trousers down, but not for the reasons they had planned.
Indeed, the politician had been right to ask; the chef was more a comic than a cook. The stories that he served were better than the food. He made good soufflé out of lies. He made bad soufflé out of eggs. And so, while we might risk only the omelettes or grilled fish on our visits to the Yellow Basket, we never tired of his stories of revenge or of hearing him reproduce on the espresso machine the sound those depth-charged stomachs must have made when his rogue mussels were propelled into the hotel room that summer afternoon. We didn't mind the repetitions, or that he would always illustrate the color of the diners' skin by holding a lime up to the light, or that some of the details changed—improved with each retelling.
Was it then simply to please himself or to keep us in his thrall (and in his restaurant) that Chef announced at the beginning of this season that mussels would be served "by way of an apology" more regularly at the Yellow Basket? He says that he can tell which mussels will be troublesome. The safe ones snap shut at once if they've been prized open with a fork. The dead ones don't. Others to avoid are those with shells that have unhinged before being cooked and any that do not fall open to accept the sacrament of garlic butter and parsley once (according to his recipe) they have been roasted in hot ash. All these unworthy ones are set aside for Chef's selected guests. Perhaps he's only teasing us, but still, we have to—want to—swallow all his words.
They look so innocent, those blue-black castanets, their pearly inner cases and their fat gray beans of meat. But they have caused, this year, a banker from [REDACTED] to spoil his trousers and the front seat of his car. And they have packed their dark export of bacteria into the luggage of at least three lady pensioners from the cruise liner that puts into our port on its round trip each spring. The on-board doctor almost had to have one of the women lifted off by helicopter. And the chef's apology has given the sweats, the vomits, and the chills, the cramps and the diarrhea, to one lone diner from 4974616c79, two German boys, a family of five with noisy children, a Princeton graduate, a priest, the owner of a smart boutique in [REDACTED], a couple planning a divorce, several state executives, and (according to the chef) a gastronomic writer from the Times Magazine. It was as if we'd made these strangers pregnant. They'd gone away with our dull, revengeful town inside. And they'd rebirthed our mussels down the coast.
So as we lift his omelette to our mouths each Sunday lunchtime, we pray for troublemakers. We pray that Chef will be offended by his passing visitors, that they'll complain, that he will offer his apologies and speak those paralyzing words "I hope you will accept a plate of mussels on the house." We do not like to stare, of course, but it is hard to resist a sideways look from time to time. We want to see the empty shells pile up.
So this is how an average restaurant can always have its tables occupied.
But best of all is on the street, when the driver of too large a car, or the possessor of an accent we don't like, or merely someone who appears too fortunate inquires, "Where is a decent place to eat?" It is a duty and a joy to point and say, "The Yellow Basket. Up above the port. The mussels are quite good, I hear. Bon appétit." An unexpected opportunity.
We're cruel, of course. We're unforgivable. Why should we punish them simply for coming from a different place or having better lives or being on vacation? The pleasure that we get when we imagine how they'll pass their afternoons is hardly warranted. We know our laughter is malicious—but surely there's some justice in it, too.

We feel as if we've cast a heavy stone onto the all too perfect surface of the sea, to send our ripples out against the waves.
GEORGE'S MAGIC COOKIES
The rumors started when—a rare event—one of the prison guards was spotted shopping in the square where Jo and his forebears had kept their bakery since 1841. It was the evening before the execution. Next day, a murderer was due to die in the Correction Facility, two kilometres out of town. Too close for comfort. Everybody was on edge. The air seemed thin and aromatic with the prospect and proximity of such a death. Old baker Jo was bald and staid and not the most progressive of men. "Don't waste your sympathy," he said. But George, his son—the one who runs the bakery today and has become the mirror image of his dad and just as difficult—was a libertarian. He wore long hair tucked up inside his baker's cap and spent any time when he wasn't slaving for his family in the cake, bread, and pastry business at the far end of the quay with his guitar and some unlikely friends. I used to watch them smoking pot with my binoculars and wish I had the courage to saunter down and join them. He was our only hippie then. And he wore flour in his hair.
It seems the prison guard had drawn attention to himself by buying a suspicious assortment of foods. Some freshly shucked oysters, from the basket girl. Two strawberry milkshakes, from the cafeteria. A slab of coffee chocolate. A piece of pummelled beefsteak. Nectarines. It wasn't long before the whispering began. These items had to be the condemned man's final meal, they said. His choices had death engraved all over them.
Then, of course, when the prison guard was spotted talking to George at the rear door of the shop and money was seen to be exchanged for a bakery bag, any fool could guess what was going on. No doubt about it. The bag contained some of young George's Magic Cookies or Sister Mary Mix or Lebanese Red Loaf or Sweet Dream biscuits or whatever it was that George provided for those long-haired travellers who queued a touch too patiently amongst the locals waiting for their bread. The murderer, for his last meal, had found a way of dining on oblivion. Good luck to him.
I don't believe that anybody slept too late the following morning. Baker Jo was standing in the street by 8 a.m., affecting an inspection of his window display but really with his eyes fixed on the gray woods high above the town where, at that moment, as they thought, that boy, that man, that murderer was sitting down with plastic plates and plastic cutlery to oysters, milkshake, chocolate, nectarines, and beef to fortify his final hour on the earth. He'd save his magic pastries till the last. We all knew that. He'd want to fly away. Surely George's baking, his sorcery, would let the man break free.
The hour struck. Some drivers sounded their horns. An emergency congregation spoke its prayers outside the church. Somebody clapped, but mostly people shook their heads, checked their watches for the umpteenth time, and went about their lives with less than half an eye fixed on the heavens.
I watched the execution through my binoculars from our top room. They pulled the prison buildings into town. I could see the detailed silence of the place: the dead, parked cars; the office doors ajar; the tiny windows of the block; the clouds as solid as the hills. The only movement was the slight stirring of a flag. Then the prison came to life again. The yards were quickly filled with exercising men. A van backed up. The winds began to lift the flag and shift the clouds. And for an instant, I could swear, the sky went pink with melody, not death. But I was sentimental in those days. The rumors that I'd heard the evening before had made me ready for and keen to glimpse transcendence with a pair of human wings.
George and I have not been friends for many years. I was, I am, too dull for him. But he was unusually friendly when we met at the far end of the quay today. I recalled how I used to spy on him with my binoculars and how I used to wish that we were close. So, while we smoked our cigarettes and looked out across the ocean at the ferries and the tankers, I reminded him of those uncomplicated days. Did he remember how he used to play guitar to foreign girls? He smiled at that. Did he remember those hashish cakes and drug-laced biscuits that he used to bake behind his father's back? He laughed. They'd made him rich. And were they true, those rumors that we heard about the executed man and what he ate for breakfast?
"That's more than thirty years ago," George said. "I can't remember all my customers." He rubbed his floury hands across the bald crown of his head. The day was loud with wind and sea and gulls, the straining of the anchored quay, and at our backs the honking cars, the muttered prayers, the clapping hands, the less than half-regarded heavens of the town. "But I'll say this," George added finally. "If that guy had my cakes for breakfast, even though it might be thirty years ago, he's flying still. Those cakes of mine were savage stuff. He probably hasn't even realized he's dead yet. He's giggling up there. He's floating and he's giggling. His pupils are like pinheads. His skull's on fire. He can't stand up. He can't sit down. And, boy, he's hungry. He could eat a horse."
MONDAY'S SOUP
His breath was damp and earthy. The old man had tuberous growths in his gut. Dr. Gregor could palpate them with his palm. They were starchy, as tough as carrots. "There is some inflammation," he said. "Nothing to worry about. Rest is what you need." What was the point of alarming a man of eighty-two with an honest diagnosis, with hospitals, with surgery? He would be dead within the month. "Are you in any pain?" The old man shook his head. The doctor prescribed warm olive oil to "ease the passage through your bowel."
He did not die within the month. He lasted ten more months before he came to Dr. Gregor's clinic again. It was the spring of the drought. He looked as tough and sinewy as a man of half his age. Indeed, he looked a little younger than before, though he was eighty-three now. "Are you in any pain?" the doctor asked again. "A little. Once in a while." When he bent to tie his boots, he explained, or tug at weeds, the hard knots in his stomach bunched against the waistband of his trousers. It was uncomfortable. What man of eighty-three could bend to touch his boots without a little pain? "I think I'd better take a look," the doctor said. He helped the old man onto the examination table and turned him on his side, his face toward the wall. He pulled on a pair of disposable lubricated gloves. "Knees up. This shouldn't take a second. Think of somewhere nice." The old man searched for somewhere nice. At first it was the modest garden where he now lived in town: the tiny square of lawn, the hem of evergreens, the single potted maple on the patio. But soon he settled on the larger piece of land that he had owned when he was younger: its trees, its stony paths, its dogged thistles, its flinty earth, the vegetables which he would harvest on summer Sundays and bring up to the house in a trug. 

The doctor did not have to penetrate too deeply beyond the sphincter to find the woody growths in his patient's bowel. Perhaps they were elephantine polyps of some kind, and not a string of cancers. Perhaps they were benign. Clearly they caused no pain, except when the old man stooped to touch his toes. Dr. Gregor pushed against the lowest tumor with his index finger. It did not seem attached, but moved freely. Its shape was odd. It was not symmetrical or funnelled but complex with extensions and recessions, like the chambered plaster cast of an earthroach burrow. "Have you examined your stool of late? Anything unusual? Any blood?" The old man shook his head. Why would he want to examine his stool?

The doctor was not a sentimental or a squeamish man. He managed to work a couple of small "polyps" loose. He put one in a lidded specimen tub and labelled it with a date and a reference for the laboratories. The other he put in a sterile bag with a little purified water. He was puzzled, but doctors are often puzzled. Let the laboratories give a name to it. He put his arm around the old man's shoulders and took him to the door. "Warm olive oil," he said.
Laboratories can take a month to analyze and process specimens. Dr. Gregor did not think the matter urgent enough to telephone for their report. The old man was fit, for eighty-three. What was a month to him? They'd get their answers soon enough. In fact, the old man died within a week of his last visit to the surgery. A sudden and unheralded stroke, too quick to experience. A neighbor called the doctor out one morning and led him to the body. His patient must have died the evening before. He'd been standing in his tiny garden with a hose. The grass and shrubs were green with care, despite the weeks of drought. The tap had been running all night long. The old man lay on his back in shallow water.
Slugs were on his shirt and trousers, taking refuge from the flood. There was a smell—damp and earthy as the old man's breath had been. It was the smell of vegetation. So that was that. He'd made a decent age and met a decent death.
The laboratories sent their report and their invoice. The old man's specimen was described as "noninvasive," "benign," and "entirely vegetable: water 83 per cent; albuminoids 2 per cent; gum 9.1 per cent; sugar 4.2 per cent; inulin 1.1 per cent." Dr. Gregor held the "polyp" he had kept up to the light in its sterile bag. It seemed more swollen. The inside of the bag was silvery with condensation. He paid the laboratory bill by check. A waste of time and money. He could not pass the costs on to a patient now. He put the swelling polyp on his windowsill. He did not like to part with it, now that the man was dead. Encouraged by the heat and light and by the purified water, the vegetable grew a pair of tiny yellow horns. Its wrinkles flattened. Its extensions and recessions achieved a kind of rippling puberty. One horn pinkened, lengthened, and uncurled. The old man's polyp had a shoot. The doctor put it in a glass dish on a bed of damp toilet paper. He watered it each day. He gave it houseplant feed. Quite soon, he had three green shoots and two more horns. Roots as thin as cotton threads clung to the damp paper. He had to pick a greenfly from its stem. A patient—asked to lean against the windowsill while Dr. Gregor checked her damaged vertebrae—recognized it as a tuber. Not a tumor, then? "I've never grown these ones myself," she said. "It's root ginger, isn't it? Or [REDACTED] artichoke? What do they taste like? Does it smell?" The doctor held it to his nose. The old man's breath again. "You'll have to pot it up," the patient said. "It won't survive on that!"
The doctor sent his nurse out to the shops to buy a pot and some compost. He thumbed the polyp into the soil, damaging only a couple of shoots. He put the plant outside the front door of his surgery. His patients dropped their cigarette ends into the pot, or spat into the soil. The soil flourished on bronchitis. The plant put up three good stems, with heavy leaves, and—at the end of the summer—three inconspicuous yellow flowers, at shoulder height. The old dears coming for their pills didn't have to bend to press their noses to the blooms. The yellow petals were busy with weevils. His patient's diagnosis was confirmed by some of the many gardeners on the doctor's list: they were [REDACTED] artichokes—or Canadian potatoes, as one man called them—not root ginger.
In September, the three stems and their leaves dried out and died. They broke away, and the pot became an ashtray, nothing else. In November, Dr. Gregor found a moment to carry the pot through to the yard behind the surgery. He turned the soil out onto a plastic bag. He planned to wash the pot and plant a basil in it, or a daphne. Something colorful or evergreen to put on the steps. There were a dozen clusters of the old man's polyps multiplying in the soil, a starchy kilo at the very least. The doctor picked them out and put them in the emptied pot. They smelled of soot. "More trouble than they're worth," his nurse remarked. "Except in soup!" That night he took the crop to his apartment. He did not peel them or attempt to scrape them. They were too oddly shaped. He scrubbed half of them in warm water. He cooked them au gratin with bacon curls. His brother and his sister-in-law came for dinner. The [REDACTED] artichokes, he said, were the gift of a patient: "He grew them himself." They tasted bland and floury. According to his sister-in-law, they would have benefited from a pinch of coriander, say, or more salt.
Dr. Gregor was fond of his brother and of his brother's wife, but she was far too keen to give advice on what would benefit his life, his work, his apartment, his cooking. More salt. A dab of paint. A housekeeper. A bit of color in his clothes. A holiday. A wife. "Why don't you settle down?" Or, "Find a woman for yourself. That nurse of yours is quite a decent sort."
The doctor showed his brother and his wife to the door. He let them take the half kilo of [REDACTED] artichokes that had not been scrubbed and cooked. For their kitchen garden. His guests were a little windy from their meal. Their breaths were damp and earthy. "They're nice, but indigestible," his brother said. "Are you in any pain?" Dr. Gregor asked. "Take warm olive oil, to ease their passage through your bowels." He wondered if he should have said more about the artichokes, how natural, how death-defying, and how benign they were.
The doctor's brother dug the tubers into a trench of flinty earth, amongst the dogged thistles at the bottom of his garden. He put in lime and compost. In summer there were yellow flowers, and in autumn there were tubers by the kilo. On Sundays, he would harvest them and bring his trug of starchy vegetables up into the house. They made the perfect Monday soup, which kept the brother and his wife warm and bilious in winter.
WILD FUNGI
The devil wanders with his straw sack, at night, through the meadows and the woods behind the town. He's there, we're told, to plant the mushrooms that he's raised in Hell, where there's no light to green them, so that the gatherers who come at dawn, against the wisdoms of the countryside, can satisfy their appetites for sickeners or conjurers or fungi smelling of dead flesh and tasting of nothing when they're cooked. He feeds them disappointments, nightmares, fevers, indigestion, fear. He lets them breakfast on his spite.

The mushroom devil has been seen from time to time. Courting couples seeking privacy in some deep undergrowth have heard his foot snap stems behind them or sensed him creeping by their cars, a mocking voyeur, hoping to disrupt their love. Those midnight wanderers who search for mysteries and gods when all the bars have shut have told how he has come so close that he has stunned them with his breath. He shows himself to children, too. They run out of the woods and fields, their punnets empty, their bikes abandoned, with the devil at their tails.
Those foolish ones who stand and stare report his backing gait, his clumsiness. He has the odors of a kennel, plus boiled eggs, scorched hair, and sweat, they say. They cannot capture him. He will not talk or give his name. He slips away, enveloped by the unresisting darkness. But first he holds his open sack so they can see and smell the rootless puffballs and the chanterelles, the honey funguses, the magic heads, the cèpes, the shagcaps, boletes, morels, the inky dicks, which he will push that night into the earth like unconvincing garden ornaments.
Sometimes they see only his stooping back and watch his white hands coming from his sack.
I, too, have met the devil in the woods. I, too, have seen the mushrooms in his bag, lolling like eviscerated parts, meringues of human tissue, sweetbreads, smelling of placenta and decay. To tell the truth, these mushrooms baffle me. I've eaten them in many of their forms, I've tried the best, but always I am bored by them. The moment that you take them from the earth, they're dull. The moment that you place them in your mouth, they let you down. I've always thought they were expensive and absurd. If they've been planted by the devil, then he is making fun of us.
So I was curious when he and I crossed paths. I followed him. He let me follow him, for he is not afraid of us. He turned his back on me and didn't care. I watched his antics in the night. I watched his white hands and his sack. And I can tell you: he has fooled you yet again. The devil is not emptying his sack but filling it. He does not plant. He picks, he picks, he picks. That's why his back is bent. He is the one who wants the mushrooms for himself. His greed is stronger than his spite. He thinks the mushrooms are too good for us. We'd not appreciate the poisons or the tangs that they provide, their blasphemies. We are too dull and timid for the magic and the flesh. He roams the woods and meadows when it's dark to satisfy himself. He knows which mushrooms to pull up. The ones he leaves for us are flavorless.
ASHES AND SPICE
She'd heard an actor talking on the radio. He loved his cat. So when it died, he had the animal cremated and put its ashes in an airtight pot on the condiment-and-spices shelf. He'd add a tiny pinch of ash each time he made a soup or stew or cup of instant coffee. The ashes lasted him three months. They didn't seem to spoil the taste of anything. But it was comforting to have the cat inside, recycled as it were, and purring for eternity. He recommended it for anyone with pets.
When her husband died, she took the actor's route. Cremated him and potted him and put a pinch of him into her meals, like grainy, unbleached salt. She judged that the flavor of these meals suffered slightly from his ashes, to tell the truth. Or maybe that was just a widow's queasiness. But certainly the comfort that she felt was less than she had counted on. She did not feel possessed by him. She did not feel at peace, as she had hoped. She was not reconciled to her new solitude. Instead, a small voice piped inside her stomach as she lay in bed at night. It bothered her. Her husband's singing voice, high-pitched and watery. The lyrics were not clear, but then they never had been clear when he was living. No matter what she did, he would not stop. His singing would not let her sleep.
The doctor listened with his stethoscope. He hummed the tune and tried to put a name to it. He took his patient's temperature. "This sort of thing is common," he said. "I've heard all kinds of songs from widows of your generation. There's not a medicine to fix it. But I'll say to you exactly what I've told the other women: You can't eat grief. It's far too strong, and indigestible. You have to let the grief eat you. You have to let the sorrow swallow you. Then put his ashes in the earth and let him go. Come back and see me in a month or two. By then, I bet, your husband's voice will be only a memory and you'll be happy with the quieter life that you have earned by loving him."
BOYSIE TART
It's said that cheese is milk that's grown up, fresh milk transformed by time. If so, then what is boysie tart? A senile dish, turned bitter by the years? It's made from old blue cheese, matured—ignored—enough to be hard and slippery as a horse's hoof.
The cheese is difficult, too gnarled to cut easily. You can only chisel and pare it into hard slivers, the Devil's nail clippings. It won't be edible until you've baked it with sultanas, prunes, and well-hung game—a scrub-fowl's best—in a sourdough case. Old cheese, old fruit, old yeast, old meat. All carcasses. For New Year's Eve, the last meal of the dying year.
If you've an orange that's gone hard and turned to parchment, squeeze what reasty juice remains onto the tart. Then dine the old year out, with timid forks, with ancient friends. This is the taste of those dishonored resolutions that have left their pungent marks throughout the house, those perfidies that have the gift of aging cheese and souring yeast and shrivelling the plums and grapes and putrefying meat.
Tomorrow is another year. Fresh milk. 

