   Now  there's  a  nice  lay,  he  thinks  to  himself,  as  he  politely  side-  steps  and  lets  herout  of  line  so  she  can  carry  her  food  over  to  the  condiment  island.  A  flicker  of  asmile  on  her  lips  as  she  passes.  A  flicker,  nothing  more,  but  it's  there.  He  hurriedly  pays  for  his  order,  not  waiting  for  the  dollar  and  eighty-four  cents  change  or  the  receipt.  No  time  for  that  now.  She'd  smiled  at  him.  He  juggles  his  two  trays,  weaving  his  way  through  the  air-  port  crowd  as  he  prays  for  an  open-  ing  near  her,  by  the  ketchup  pump,  or  the  napkin  dispenser  at  the  very  least.  The  napkins  would  be  a  stretch,  but  he  could  manage  it.  He'll  force  his  way  in  if  he  has  to.  He  promises  him-  self  this.  Well,  maybe  not  force,  but  he'll  definitely  say,  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  point-  edly.  Definitely.  She  isn't  going  to  get  away  that  easily,  not  after  a  smile.  No  way.  &quot;Could  you  pass  me  a  spork?&quot;  she  asks,  trying  to  keep  her  burger  together  with  a  free  hand.  Looking  right  at  him.  She  could  have  picked  anyone,  but  she's  looking  right  into  his  eyes.  &quot;Like  clockwork,&quot;  he  mentally  notes  as  he  picks  up  an  individually  wrapped  utensil  and  hands  it  over.  A  finger  brushing  hers.  The  slightest  of  intimacies,  but  at  the  moment  of  im-  pact  it  feels  as  if  a  chorus  of  angels  had  burst  into  song.  That  might  be  going  a  little  far,  but  it  seems  very  similar  to  that.  It  does.  People  are  beginning  to  pile  up  behind  him,  and  he  grabs  a  packet  of  relish  for  emphasis  as  he  offers,  &quot;I  hate  that  name,  don't  you?  Did  they  have  to  call  it  'spork'?  I  mean,  why  not  a  'foon'  or  something  equally  stupid?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  I  know,&quot;  she  flashes  a  grin  while  sneaking  a  couple  of  fries.  &quot;So  ...  you  stuck  here,  too?&quot;  he  ven-  tures,  filling  a  few  paper  thimbles  with  mustard  as  cover  while  he  engages.  &quot;Yep,&quot;  she  mumbles,  more  to  herself  120  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  28,  2001  FICTION  LAYOVER  BY  NEIL  LABUTE  than  anything,  but  it  allows  him  to  lean  in  a  bit  closer.  The  ole  lean-in,  a  classic.  &quot;Sorry?  I  couldn't  hear  you-that  an-  nouncement.&quot;  He  points  up  with  an  elbow  as  he  says  it.  &quot;Please  pick  up  the  courtesy  phone  and  all  that.  .  .  .&quot;  Another  smile  floats  his  way.  Jesus,  he  thinks,  What  a  pushover.  She  would  do  me  right  here,  or  in  the  lounge,  at  least,  a  hand  job  under  my  coat  or  something.  No  question.  &quot;I  never  get  a  call  on  the  courtesy  phone,&quot;  she  laughs.  Not  a  giggle,  mind  you,  this  is  a  full-bodied  laugh.  &quot;Not  once  in  my  adult  life  have  I  ever  been  called  to  that  damned  white  phone!  Guess  I'm  not  very  special.&quot;  And  she  holds  eye  contact  the  whole  time.  Bingo.  She  takes  a  nugget  from  his  conversation  and  personalizes  it.  Adds  a  little  melo-  dramatic  flourish  at  the  end.  Perfect  re-  sponse.  Perfect.  Why  not  just  press  a  handwritten  note  into  my  palm  and  be  done  with  it?  A  pair  of  panties  slipped  into  my  carry-  on?  She  is  begging  for  it,  he  imagines  as  he  gives  that  faux  chuckle  of  his,  the  good  one  that  most  everyone  at  the  of-  fice  likes  and  chuckles  along  with.  &quot;Well,  let  me  be  the  first,&quot;  he  suggests.  &quot;You  go  stand  over  there  near  the  receiver  and  I'll  have  them  page  you  with  a  desperate  message  or  something.&quot;  That  could've  been  better,  a  stronger  joke  at  the  end  or  maybe  a  wink  thrown  in,  but  it  seems  to  work.  &quot;And  what  would  the  desperate  message  be?  Huh?&quot;  Complete  amuse-  ment  on  her  part  now.  Absolutely  complete.  &quot;Oh,  I'd  think  of  something.&quot;  He  chuckles  again  (risky  to  use  it  twice  in  the  same  conversation,  but  so  far,  so  good).  A  bull's-eye.  She  looks  up  ex-  pectantly  while  blowing  a  stray  piece  of  auburn  hair  out  of  her  eyes.  Waits  another  second.  People  are  grabbing  things  from  around  them  now,  realiz-  ing  that  a  &quot;moment&quot;  is  officially  taking  place  here.  &quot;Come  on,  don't  keep  me  in  suspense.  Tell  me  what  it  would  be.&quot;  &quot;Umm  .  .  .  something  like,  I  dunno,  maybe  like  Hey,  tell  the  redhead  that  I'm  nuts  about  her  and  to  get  home  safely,  because  I  already  miss  her.'  Something  like  that,&quot;  he  says  without  even  looking  over.  He  doesn't  need  to.  That  was  a  cruise  missile,  that  one.  If  she  were  an  Iraqi,  she'd  be  dead  now.  He  gives  it  an-  other  beat,  throws  some  straws  down  near  the  three  corn  dogs,  then  glances  over.  She's  still  staring  at  him.  &quot;That's  the  nicest  thing  anyone's  said  to  me  in  six  years,&quot;  she  whispers.  &quot;Seriously,  since  I  graduated,  that's  the  best  line  I've  heard.&quot;  It's  not  a  tear,  but  something's  definitely  going  on  in  those  blue,  blue  eyes  of  hers.  Liquid  of  some  sort.  &quot;Then  you're  welcome,  and  it's  not  a  line.  You  deserve  to  hear  it  every  day.  Twice,&quot;  he  chuckles  one  last  time.  A  new  personal  best.  Three  chuckles,  and  not  a  sliver  of  suspicion  out  of  her.  Excellent.  He  realizes  it's  time  to  make  a  move,  see  what  happens.  Test  the  theory.  One  last  smile  on  his  part,  what  the  hell,  he  even  tosses  in  the  wink,  and  then  he  turns  to  go.  At  the  last  possible  second,  it  happens.  Her  voice  lifts,  up  over  the  throb  of  the  crowd.  &quot;Listen  ...  you  wanna  sit  together  or  something?&quot;  To  turn  quickly  would  be  wrong-  too  desperate,  he  figures.  Better  to  stop  slowly,  maybe  asigh  or  something,  with  a  slight  but  perceptible  drop  of  the  shoul-  ders,  and  then  gracefully  look  back.  A  weary  frown.  &quot;Geez,  you  know  what,  I'd  love  to,  but  ...&quot;  &quot;You  can't,  no,  I  understand  ..  .&quot;  &quot;It's  just,  I'm  with  some  colleagues,&quot;  he  finally  offers.  &quot;I've  got  theirstuff  here,  and  they're  way  down  by  D23.&quot;  &quot;No  problem,&quot;  she  says  bravely,  but  she  is  clearly  disappointed.  Clearly.  He  lets  the  moment  hang  between  them,  lets  her  dance  on  the  gallows  of  expectation  a  bit  longer,  then  be-  queaths  her  another  look.  The  &quot;if  only&quot;  look  that  has  carried  him  from  junior  high  to  this  very  minute,  stand-  ing  here  before  her.  &quot;Just  my  luck.&quot;  A  thin  smile  and  shrug  from  her.  He  fires  one  back,  matching  her  shrug  for  shrug.  He  has  to  _,  fire  one  back,  it's  expected.  Then  one  $  step  each.  Maybe  two.  He  counts  out  8  &quot;one-two-three-four-five&quot;  to  himself,  $  even  using  &quot;Mississippi&quot;  each  time,  be-  z  fore  pivoting  around.  Checking  again.  \And  she's  still  looking.  Checkmate.  §  Bobby  Fischer  would  come  out  of  hid-  4  ing  to  watch  him  work,  days  like  these.  S  Before  he  can  fully  savor  the  victory,  53  however,  the  floating  voice  of  the  cour-  z  tesy  phone  erupts  overhead,  raining  2  down  with  cleansing  static.  Big  smiles  all  Me  around  on  that  one,  the  timing  impecca-  ble,  like  a  sitcom's  laugh  track.  Courtesy  ex  machina.  And  exit,  stage  left.  I  Ie  snaps  open  the  Money  sec-  tion  of  USA  Today  for  emphasis,  shuffles  the  pages  a  bit,  justto  let  the  girls  know  he's  reading,  to  take  it  a  lit-  tle  easy  with  the  &quot;Hello  Kitty&quot;  chatter.     Doesn't  even  glance  up  at  the  wife.  The  food  was  a  touch  cold  on  de-  livery,  but  he  felt  he  needed  to  stop  for  the  paper  after  that.  The  &quot;encounter.&quot;  Something  to  read,  a  helpful  moat  be-  tween  him  and  the  Mrs.  It  had  taken  a  minute  to  find  them,  the  girls  hav-  ing  got  it  into  their  collective  heads  to  snag  a  corner  table  instead  of  the  per-  fectly  good  one  he'd  selected.  Doesn't  matter.  Whatever  keeps  them  quiet.  He  scans  the  stocks  one  last  time-  doesn't  own  any  but  enjoysseeing  who's  losing  out-then  folds  the  paper  once,  then  over  again.  In  the  distance,  a  flash  of  red.  He  looks  up,  cautiously  now;,  wives  have  radar.  And  there  she  is,  the  condiment  gal.  Sixty  feet  away.  A  whole  booth  to  herself,  busiest  airport  in  the  world,  and  she  scores  a  booth.  Staring  straight  at  him.  An-  other  one  of  those  looks,  but  with  a  twist  this  time.  The  mouth  a  bit  turned  down,  the  eyes  a  touch  nar-  rower.  There  could  be  disgust  there,  he's  not  absolutely  sure.  It's  hard  at  twenty  yards  to  read  disgust  with  cer-  tainty.  Might  be  the  burger  not  agree-  ing  with  her,  but  probably  not.  She  even  shakes  her  head  a  touch  when  one  of  the  girls  erupts  on  his  side,  up  from  under  the  table  and  suddenly  at  his  throat,  pawing  him,  tugging  on  his  ear.  He  silently  tries  to  explain,  plead  his  case,  prove  that  he's  differ-  ent.  That  he'd  give  it  all  up  for  her,  if  only.  If  only.  He  looks  over  again,  but  shehas  vanished.  Left  her  tray  and  faded  into  the  lunch  crowd.  Maybe  never  even  really  existed.  He  won-  ders  this  to  himself  as  he  toys  with  his  girl's  braids.  Adjusts  her  tiny  sweater.  Brushes  crumbs  from  her  flushed,  tired  cheeks.  &quot;You  have  beautiful  children,&quot;  comes  the  voice,  not  three  feet  away.  He  hadn't  planned  on  this  one.  The  sur-  prise  attack.  Out  of  the  jungle  at  dawn.  The  girls  titter  and  make  faces,  his  spouse  wipes  ketchup  from  her  chin  and  grins  up  foolishly,  he  buries  a  &quot;Thank  you&quot;  in  his  Sprite.  He  con-  siders  using  the  chuckle  a  fourth  time  but  immediately  backs  away  from  the  idea.  &quot;You  must  be  so  proud,&quot;  she  says,  holding  this  a  touch  too  long.  Nearly  an  inappropriate  amount  of  time,  he  feels,  with  no  clear  response  from  the  family.  Finally,  she  moves  off,  her  loafers  making  a  soulful  squeak  as  she  treads  along  the  rubberized  Spanish-tile  floor.  A  carry-on  rattling  behind  her.  A  blast  of  white  noise  from  the  courtesy  phone  covering  her  tracks.  &quot;That  was  sweet,&quot;  says  the  wife,  breaking  the  latest  détente.  One  of  her  hopeful  looks.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  he  states,  flatly.  Directly.  Scooping  up  the  Life  section  and  bur-  rowing  in.  Thinking  all  the  while,  She  wants  me.  She  wants  me.  I  know  she  wants  me.  