GUNSMOKE
By Marisa Silver


My father has a gun and won't come out of his house. This is what a policeman is telling me over the phone, a cop who used to be the boy I slept with in high school. I haven't seen or heard from Bobby in nearly twenty years, but the stumble in his laugh makes me blush, reminding me of long silences and fast sex.
Bobby keeps talking. The bank has foreclosed on my father's house in the desert. He failed to make his payments, and the bank turned around and sold his land to a real-estate developer. The desert has become fashionable again—magazine articles tell you it's "back," as though it had been hiding out somewhere all this time.
"He hasn't shot at anybody yet," Bobby continues. "But the chief's ready to escalate things."
"Meaning?"
"Throw some smoke in there and force him out."
"Jesus."
My father lives alone, in the same flat-roofed cabin he's owned since he left me and my mother when I was ten. Before he drove away, my mother took him aside and showed him how to run a dishwasher. He is taciturn to the point of being rude. He's the kind of person who might decide not to do something for another person, not because of selfishness or meanness, but because he is uncomfortable being on the receiving end of gratitude.
Bobby tells me that he was made a sergeant on the force, and about somebody named Cindy and two kids.
"That's good news," I say. My gaze falls on my living room's single decoration: an unframed poster of a [REDACTED] action film I've never seen. I found it on the street after a neighbor moved away.
"It's nothing like you, Alice," Bobby says. "We saw you on TV, in that Greek thing."
I wince at the reference. I once had a bit part in a superhero-of-the-ancient-world television show. "That was eight years ago."
"You ought to let us know when you're on TV."
"I'm not on TV much."
"Well, you just let us know when you are."
Apparently, he has not heard me. Or maybe it's that stubborn way people from back home have of ignoring cynicism. I've spent seventeen years in [REDACTED], but it took me no time to discover that I'm no actor.
"You're doing movies now?" he asks.
"I do the voices in movies."
"Oh," he says, uncertainly.
"You know all those people drowning in 'Titanic'?"
"You were in 'Titanic'?"
"I was the screams of some of the people drowning. Also, some of the eating sounds in the dining-room scenes."
"Eating sounds?"
"I chew." I make a cheek-sucking sound. I stop abruptly. "It's a pretty good job," I say, apologetically.
He says nothing. The silence that follows is so long I wonder if he's still on the line, and I panic a little. "Bobby?"
"Listen, Alice. Are you going to get involved in this situation or not?" he says, sounding official again.
"I'll give him a call," I say.
"He's cut the phone lines."
"Shit."
The following morning, I drive out to my father's house. I usually visit him once a year. Last time, we drank a beer and walked around his property while he pointed out new earthquake fissures in the foundation. Then he spent forty-five minutes under the hood of my car, trying to fix a fifteen-year-old engine cough. He said, "You don't have to come all the way out here, Alice," and I said, "It's no trouble at all." He said goodbye with his hands stuffed in his pockets, and I drove home. This is how it is when I see him; it reminds me of the relief and disappointment of getting the same haircut over and over again.
I grew up in Palm Springs. Until the day before my mother died of a heart attack, five years ago, she gave mud baths and heat treatments to rich tourists at a local spa. Each night, when she got home, she'd take a bath to wash off the smells of other people. Then she'd crack a head of iceberg lettuce on the edge of the kitchen counter and start making our dinner. She wore white soft-soled nurse's shoes that made no sound when she walked.
In the fifties and sixties, my father was a stuntman on television Westerns. His specialty was bulldogging—leaping from one horse to another and wrestling its rider to the ground. He once jumped from a moving train onto a wagon, climbed down from its roof, struggled with the driver, and drove the wagon down a steep hillside and across a river. By the end of his stunt career, he could do almost anything—fall off a saloon rooftop onto a moving horse carriage, dive from a cliff into a rushing river, ride underneath the belly of a horse. He always smelled of tangy saddle leather and horse sweat.
In the early seventies, my father was involved in an accident. He and another man were supposed to stage a fight on top of a wooden watchtower. At one point, my father was meant to trip and tumble off the tower, bringing the other man with him, so that they would fall together to the ground. The tower wasn't high, and both men were experienced. My father arrived at the set first and arranged the crash pads, and he and the other man worked out their moves. But something went wrong during the stunt. My father landed safely, but the other man lost his grip on my father, bounced off the landing rig, and came down on some sharp rocks twenty yards away. His neck snapped, and he died.
On the outer edges of Riverside, life gives itself over to the desert. Car dealerships and outlet malls cluster together, as though desperate for company. Small communities rise up and quickly give way to billboards and neat fields of hay and grain. The emptiness makes what is here stand out: miles of electrical cable hanging like necklaces between stanchions, and two life-size dinosaurs, part of an attraction that was abandoned long ago. I drive over a serpentine pass, and on the other side there are wind turbines by the hundreds—an army of white pinwheels rotating slowly on tall stems. It's hard to imagine that their slow motion brings much electricity to the desert, but life out here has always thrived on little sustenance.
I head up into the high desert, toward the town of Twentynine Palms. I pass a gas station and a convenience store. There are trailer homes and low ranch houses scattered like driftwood, most of them fronted by tiny gardens of rubbery foliage. Farther on, the land becomes a rough carpet of cholla cactus and spiky Joshua trees.
A police cruiser is parked in the dirt driveway of my father's brown-sided cabin. The scene is less dramatic than the bad TV movie I'd expected. Two cops sit in the car. One reads a newspaper while the other sleeps, head tilted back against the seat. I start toward the cabin when the cruiser door swings open and out steps a barely recognizable Bobby, rubbing his eyes. His long half-miler's body has filled out with heavy muscles and the hint of a gut. His uniform grips him.

"Can I help you?" he asks.
"It's me. Alice."
He squints into the winter sun. "I didn't recognize you," he says. There's letdown in his voice. After hearing stories of my decade in the so-called fast lane, he expects something more than a weather-beaten woman in jeans and a wrinkled blouse.
"It's been a long time," I say.
He nods. His face has grown more angular. His eyes have narrowed, but his lips fall into the same natural pout that I used to find irresistible. I suddenly find myself thinking of the taste of his cigarette breath mixed with ham-and-cheese sandwich, his tongue exploring my mouth, eyes sleepy with desire. I feel a perverse and embarrassing connection to this stranger.
"Does he know I'm coming?" I say.
"He won't communicate with us."
I start for the kitchen door, but Bobby moves to block my path.
"I'm going to have to search you."
"You're kidding."
He gives me an unfriendly look, and I spread my legs and arms. He squats as he makes his way down my body, avoiding my breasts but not my inner thighs. His light-brown hair is speckled with gray, and glistens with sweat.
"This is a perk of the job, I guess," I joke uncomfortably. He doesn't answer. I look out beyond the top of his head at the lot across the street where the armature of an oversized hacienda-to-be stands like a mastodon skeleton.
"All right," he says, standing up. "See what you can do. The guy who bought the land is on our butt every day."
I take a step toward the house when a window flies open and the barrel of a shotgun slides out. Bobby retreats behind the car.
"Dad?" I yell sharply. "Dad, it's me!"
Desert rats don't age well. My father seems more gecko than man when I meet him in the kitchen. At sixty-eight, he is fully gray, and age spots dot his high forehead like dollops of chocolate. His skin looks like it's about to peel off in big leathery strips.
"You usually call before you visit," he says. He's got a cowboy's build: compact and wiry, hips narrower than my own. A small shark could swim through his bowed legs. He stands across the room and studies me with eyes as bright as blue crystals.
"You usually have a phone."
"The police tell you to come get me out of my house?"
"I guess it isn't your house anymore."
We're both silent. I look around the small kitchen. The counters are bare except for a set of aluminum cannisters, arranged in descending size. One says "coffee," another "tea." The letters are scratched off the other two. A blue-and-white striped dish towel hangs over the oven handle. A clock in the shape of a daisy is nailed to the wall. He's hung a mirror above the sink and his shaving equipment and comb sit in a mug on the drainboard. He lives alone. He can shave wherever he wants.
"You have boxes somewhere?" I say. "I'll help you pack."
I start toward the basement for some boxes. He shifts his gun in his hands purposefully, and I stop.
"You gonna shoot me, Dad?" I look into his eyes. He doesn't seem crazed, just determined.
"I'm not interested in help, if that's all right with you, Alice."
"O.K.," I say. "Just put the gun down, then, will you?"
He lowers it to his side. We stand without speaking. "You hungry?" he says, finally.
"What?"
"I'll open up a couple of cans."
He sets his gun against the kitchen chair, opens a cupboard, and takes down two medium-sized cans. He roots around in a drawer, finds the opener, and sets to work.
"Soup O.K. with you?" he asks with his back to me. "I've run out of everything else."
I stare at the gun leaning there for the taking and consider my options. "Soup's fine," I say.
When he was twenty or twenty-one, my father came south from Grass Valley. He'd been working ranches since he was sixteen and had heard there was work down in [REDACTED] He was good-looking and could handle a horse, and once he landed his first job the work came easily. Occasionally, I'll tune into a late-night rerun and catch a glimpse of him as a young man. In a battle between the Indians and the Army, he played people on both sides, dressing as a Comanche for one set of shots, then changing into a lieutenant's uniform for the other. In the edited show, there was a scene of a heavily made-up Indian pulling a soldier off a horse. The Indian stabbed the soldier in the chest with a knife at close range. The final two closeups of the victor and the vanquished revealed them both to be my father.
As a child, I didn't understand that none of this was real, and I thought my father was very brave. Once, when I was five, he overheard me bragging about him to a playmate. The next day, he took the training wheels off my bike and told me it was time to learn to ride a two-wheeler. The sidewalk outside our house was paved, but my father took me to our gravel driveway. I mounted the purple Schwinn while he held the back of the seat to steady me.
"Just be ready," he said quietly. I could feel his warm breath on my ear.
He gave the bike a shove and told me to pedal. I steered in a drunken weave for a few feet until I fell over, skinning my knees and my hands on the rough pebbles. I cried. He checked out my wounds, picked the bike up, and carried it with one hand back to the head of the driveway and set it up again. We went on like this for an hour, until I figured out how to make the bike go right when it wanted to go left, what to do when a rock took me by surprise and threw off my rhythm. I made it down to the end of the driveway and onto the smooth pavement without crashing. When I returned to my father, he looked down at me, unsmiling.
"You just have to be ready to change your plan," he said. "Bravery's got nothing to do with it."
"I'm sorry," I said.
He looked at me uncomfortably. "You ought not to go on about things like you do, Alice," he said.
My father's living room is decorated with castoffs from television shows. There's a rocking chair made out of rough-hewn bentwood, a couch with antlers for a headrest. The coffee table is a wooden wine barrel spattered with bullet holes from a bar fight. The pictures of cowboys and horses on the walls are dime-store reproductions.
The shades are drawn against the glare of the afternoon sun, and maybe against the police as well. My father sits in a chair in the dim light cast by a standing lamp. His shotgun lies across his lap.
"The house looks good," I say.
"Started sinking about a year ago. Drainage problem. I had to pour in a new foundation."

"That's a big job."
"I did the work myself." There is a silence.
"I hit some traffic on the way out," I say.
"Hmm?"
"There was a jam downtown where the 5 meets the 110, but after that things cleared up."
"That's a bad interchange. Always has been."
"Yes."
Outside, the police car starts its engine. I feel grateful for the interruption. I lift the curtain at the window. The car pulls out of the driveway and heads down the road.
"You can probably find a reasonable apartment in Palm Springs or Indio," I say, sitting down on the couch. The antlers poke into the back of my head. "You must have retirement benefits from the union."
He sighs heavily.
"I could make some calls for you."
"Phone's dead."
"Would you like me to make some calls for you, Dad?"
"Not really."
When I was nine and my father was still living at home, my mother suggested he take me to work with him. It was during the summer, and I had no school. The morning I was meant to go, my mother woke me hours before dawn. By the time I was down in the kitchen, my father was already in his jacket, tossing his car keys impatiently from one hand to another. My mother, still in her bathrobe, handed me a lunch she'd packed the night before.
We drove for nearly two hours in the dark. When my father turned off the highway, the sun was just beginning to lighten the sky to a dove gray. I didn't know where we were, but there were too many of the wrong kind of trees for us to be in the desert. Finally, we pulled off the road and parked in a dirt lot filled with cars and trailers. My father grabbed a wrinkled brown grocery sack from the back seat and I followed him through a haphazard cluster of trucks to a trailer filled with racks of clothing. Inside, my father introduced himself to a woman in a red sweatshirt. She had plastic bifocals hanging on a chain over her heavy chest.
"You're a full head shorter than your actor," she said. "But I guess it doesn't matter if you're on a horse."
She pawed through the clothes and came up with a pair of dusty brown pants and a checked shirt. "The shirt will hang on you. We can pin it up. We have only doubles, so save the blood for the money shots." She handed him a hat and some brown suède chaps. "You bring your own boots?"
He held up his paper sack. She looked at me and raised an eyebrow and looked back at her clipboard.
"She's just a visitor," my father said.
I waited outside a portable bathroom while he changed into his costume. He emerged—along with a blast of urine and powerful disinfectant—looking like a cowboy. His chaps swung loosely around his legs. His hat sat back perfectly on his head. His street clothes and shoes were bundled neatly under his arm.
I followed him past people drinking from Styrofoam cups of coffee. He didn't stop to greet anyone. He led us to a horse trailer, found two wooden apple boxes, and told me to sit on one. I could smell hay and manure. The sun rose higher in the sky. People continued to amble back and forth, some shouting orders into walkie-talkies. Men carried cameras and heavy cables off trucks and dragged them away on dollies. Everybody smoked. My father had a newspaper which he read, down, I suspect, to the advertisements for hair implants. He got up once or twice to straighten his outfit or to get himself another cup of coffee. The day heated up, and he began to sweat under his hat, but he did not take it off.
At last, a man with a walkie-talkie beckoned impatiently to my father, who stood up and adjusted his chaps. We headed off after the man, climbing a path up a small hill. On the other side, people in Western costumes sat in deck chairs, smoking, reading magazines, or talking to one another. My father motioned for me to stand to the side and he continued toward the people, until he was out of sight. When I saw him again, he was on a horse, wearing a holster, the silver handle of a gun showing inside it. The horse was skittish and my father had to work to get it settled, but he was an expert rider and soon the horse's high, nervous steps fell under his control. A man on the ground talked and pointed and then my father trotted the horse away behind a stand of trees. A few minutes later, he rode out from behind the stand at full gallop. The crowd stopped talking as the horse reared up and my father slid off its back, doing a full flip and landing on his stomach.
Immediately, people started talking again, as if nothing had happened. My father got up, dusted himself off, and led his horse to the side, where he stood passively as a woman fluffed his hair. The lady from the costume trailer came over and fiddled with his pant legs and tucked his oversized shirt into his waistband. It embarrassed me to see him touched so intrusively. When the women were finished, my father mounted the horse and disappeared behind the trees again. A voice called, "Action!" and my father rode in at a gallop. Then someone yelled, "Gun!" and my father grabbed his chest. Blood poured out between his fingers as the horse reared up. My father flipped and landed on his belly—a perfect fall. I waited for him to get up. But he didn't move. There was blood on the ground beneath his chest.
"Dad!" I screamed. I ran over to him, holding his shoulders and shaking him.
"There's a kid in the shot!" someone yelled. "We have to go again!"
My father rolled over and sat up. He looked at all the people staring down at us. I could see his shame, and I realized my mistake.
"I thought you were hurt," I said.
"I'm not hurt," he hissed under his breath. "Go stand where I told you." The horse wrangler and the wardrobe lady converged on him, and he stood and walked away from me without looking back.
My father is sleeping with his head tilted back against the easy chair. His mouth is open, and I can hear the air pass through his throat like dry wind. I'm thinking about old boyfriends. My last one, Martin, left about four months ago. He was thin, thinner than me, and holding him I felt ungainly and exposed. The relationship left me with the impression that I was always speaking too loudly in a small room. I didn't believe he was serious when he asked me to marry him, and so I said yes, and the next thing I knew we were driving down to Baja to get married. When we stopped at the border checkpoint, Martin placed a hand on my knee and asked me what I was thinking. I told him I wanted to be in one of the cars going in the opposite direction.

"You still here?" my father says, surprising me. He sighs deeply and pulls himself taller in his chair. He checks his watch.
I stand up and peer out the closed drapes.
"They back yet?" he asks.
"No."
"Long lunch."
I let go of the drapes and turn around. He looks me over.
"You acting anymore?" he says.
"Not much. I'm doing voice work. Stunt talking."
He smiles. "I never thought you'd make a very good actor."
The comment rattles me. "I wish you'd said something a couple of decades ago," I say, trying for a joke. "You could have saved me a lot of hassle."
"It wasn't for me to say what you should or shouldn't do."
"What made you think I'd be no good at it?"
"Actors," he says, "need to be loved."
I feel like he's looking at me naked.
"Do you ever get lonely out here?" The hair on the top of his head is thinning. His scalp is freckled and mapped with veins. My stomach knots up at the thought of a revelation.
"Not once," he says, reminding me that I'm an unnecessary distraction.
I knew the man who died in the accident my father was involved in. His name was Dan Radley. He was a stuntman, like my father, and he and my mother had an affair for a year before my father left my mother. I was too young to know about it. I thought Dan came around to help my mother out with heavy chores when my father was away on television jobs.
Dan wore a diamond as big as a gambling die on his pinkie finger and told jokes that he had written down in a small black notebook. He'd fish the book out of his shirt pocket and call me over. "Why is six afraid of seven?" he'd ask, and, before I could answer he'd say, "Because seven ate nine. Get it?" He'd wink and give me a swat on the bottom. When he told my mother a joke, they'd back away from me, into another room. I'd hear her say, "Oh, Dan. You're bad," as though she were reprimanding him, but the pleasure in her thick voice was unmistakable.
Dan was loud; the whole house filled up with the sound of him. He was from [REDACTED], and he would tell us about the curling team standings, which he kept up with through relatives back in Edmonton. Sometimes we'd get a broom and a pot lid and play a game in the kitchen, while my mother complained lightly about her scuffed floors. He drank only imported beer. After he visited, my mother would collect the glasses and wash them in extra-hot water, then tell me to throw the bottles in the neighbor's trash, because our cans were full.
When my father came home and told us about the accident, my mother collapsed to the floor. My father stood for a moment before going to help her. Looking back on it, I don't know if he realized then what had been going on, or if he had known for some time. He helped her up and steered her to the couch, where she lay on her side with her knees to her chest and her back to us. He covered her with a crocheted blanket, filled a glass of water, and set it on the table in front of the couch. Then he sat down heavily on the chair next to it.
"I could feel him lose his balance when he stepped off the tower, but I couldn't fix it. I thought I was ready. . . ." He dropped his head into his hands and his voice trailed off. My mother whimpered from the couch.
The family of Dan Radley sued the television company. My father was named in the suit. A lawyer from the union came out to the house to prepare him for his day in court. My father sat in a chair in the living room, and my mother and I stood by the door.
"Who came up with the stunt in question?" the lawyer asked, pacing back and forth in front of the chair.
"Falling off the tower was in the script. Dan and I came up with how to do the jump."
"No," the lawyer interrupted. "You don't say that. You say the production company came up with the jump."
"The production company?" my father said. "What'd they have to do with it?"
"They paid for the show," the lawyer said. "Everything that happened on the show is their responsibility. Who rigged the crash pad?"
"I did."
"No," the lawyer said impatiently. "That's not the right answer. The right answer is you did it according to the instructions of the movie production company."
"I'm not going to go laying the blame on someone else," my father said.
"Don't say 'blame,' " the man said, growing heated. "No one is accusing you of rigging the pad wrong. The crash pad worked fine for you," he said.
My father looked down. The man softened his tone. "Can you describe for the court the way in which Mr. Radley took his fall?"
My father looked up at the man but didn't speak for a moment. "No," he said, at last.
"You have to answer the questions or you'll be held in contempt."
My father rubbed his chin with the heel of his hand. "A man ought to be able to die without people speaking poorly of him," he said, finally.
My mother disappeared down the hall.
After the accident, my father didn't work as much. At first, he made excuses for turning down jobs. Later, he just didn't answer the phone or return calls. He didn't trust himself. Twice, I found him standing outside our house, staring up at the roof or out at the horizon. Some months later, he moved away, up into the desert, exiling himself from the dual failures of his marriage and his job.
I'm driving in my car. I told my father I was going to the store to get something decent to eat. In truth, I don't know where I'm heading. It's nearly five o'clock, and in the late-winter sun the distant mountain peaks glow a soft pink. A moment later, a tepid blue-gray color settles into the sky. A few miles down the highway, I pass Bobby in his civilian S.U.V., headed in the opposite direction. We both slow as we pass. In my rearview mirror, I see that he has stopped his car. I stop, too, and wait as he expertly backs up the few hundred feet until he is alongside me. He's changed out of his uniform and into jeans and a sweater.
"Back to the city?" he asks.
"To the store, to make some phone calls. I'll try to find a place for him in Indio."
"If he's not out of there by tomorrow morning, we'll have to come in and get him."
His tone irks me. "When did you become such an asshole?"
"This is procedure," he says. "We could have your father in jail in one hour, if you'd rather things went that way."
"Jesus, Bobby. With that kind of attitude, you should be working for the 556e6974656420537461746573P.D."

He finally cracks a smile. "There's a phone over at the Boot and Saddle."
"Where's that?"
"It's where I'm going." He accelerates and heads off. I pull out and follow his taillights.
At the bar, I call a few retirement complexes listed in the phone book, but it's past five, and the offices are closed for the day. I hang up and head toward the bar, where Bobby is seated next to an empty stool.
"Where's Cindy Two Kids?" I say, sliding in beside him and signalling for a beer.
"It's our night off."
"She's meeting you here?"
"Our night off from each other."
I look at him, trying to understand what he means.
He takes a drink of his beer. "It's her idea. She says we're in a rut, that we need to bring new experiences into the marriage. She joined a book group. She brings home books. I'm supposed to read them."
"I don't remember you being much of a reader."
He smiles and looks at me in a way that makes me uncomfortable.
"So your contribution is to bring home experiences from the bar?" I say.
He doesn't smile. "She thinks I'm at the movies. I can't go home until ten-thirty or things will look bad."
"Doesn't she want to know what movie you've seen? For discussion purposes?"
"I check out the papers and see what's playing. You see who the stars are and what the ad looks like, and you pretty much get the gist of the story."
I laugh. He shrugs, bashfully proud.
"Where are the kids?"
"They sleep over at her mother's. Cindy and I are supposed to, you know, get together when we come home." He looks at his beer.
"Is that after the Great Books discussion or before?"
He shakes his head, a little sadly.
"Well," I say. "Maybe she's right. Maybe things will perk up."
He takes a sip of his drink.
"Want to go to a movie?" he says. "Make an honest man out of me?"
This takes me by surprise, and I laugh. Beer comes out of my nose.
"That's nice, Alice. No wonder you can't land a husband."
"Fuck you, Bobby," I say lightly.
We grab a much read paper from the end of the bar and scan the movie listings. We decide to drive all the way to Palm Springs in order to see a terrible teen flick I did voice work on a year ago, but which was so bad it is only now being released. Bobby drives his car and I sit back with my window open, letting the cold night air slap me awake. The drive goes faster than I expect, and soon we're sneaking into the middle of the film, trying not to disturb the trickle of kids who've come out to see it on a weeknight. I fill Bobby in on the plot, which is so inane that the two of us start giggling into our popcorn, and a couple of teen-agers turn around in their seats and swear at us.
"Just tell me when you show up," Bobby whispers loudly.
"Not yet," I say. "There should be a party scene."
I glance over at him in the darkness. He's watching the screen with delight. A loud rock-and-roll song starts up.
"The party scene!" Bobby whispers excitedly.
I watch carefully. "O.K., there!" I say, pointing as the camera lingers on a group of gossiping teen-age girls. "I'm the voice of the blonde."
"Where?" Bobby asks, sitting up.
"You missed it," I say, as the camera floats away from the girls. "O.K., there, there!" I say, as the camera passes a girl and a boy laughing. "That's my laugh."
"That's your laugh!" Bobby repeats, amazed.
"O.K., right here," I say, as the scene settles on the lead couple.
"That's you talking?" Bobby whispers.
"No. Wait. Just wait."
The couple leans in for a kiss. It is a wet, sloppy teen-age kiss that goes on for a long time. "That's my kissing sound," I say.
"No way!" Bobby says, wide-eyed.
I nod, actually feeling proud. "Tongue and everything."
Bobby looks back at the screen. He starts to yell. "Here's the girl who did the kiss—"
I slap my hand over his mouth before he can go further, but he keeps trying to talk, his lips moving against my palm. I'm laughing and he's struggling to get free of me. Finally, he gives up and falls against the back of his seat. I take my hand away, but he reaches up and pulls it to his mouth. I feel the hot wet mist of his breath on my palm. His tongue licks my skin.
Within minutes, we're in his car, unbuckling and unsnapping and then we're in a motel on top of an orange bedspread. Neither of us makes a noise or looks the other in the eyes.
He gives a final heave and falls into me with the whole weight of his body. He stays there for a long time, breathing heavily into the curve of my neck. He moves off me and I turn onto my stomach. I hear the sound of clothing being pulled on, zipped up, the clack of a belt buckle. I think: don't talk. I want to be past this moment before it has a chance to happen.
"Alice—"
"Well," I say, sitting up quickly and cutting him off, "here's to bringing home new experiences."
I wake up in the middle of the night on the antler couch in my father's living room. A blanket covers me, although I have no memory of having got it or the pillow under my head. The insides of my thighs are raw. I wrap my blanket around me and am heading toward the bathroom when I hear the sound of the television coming from my father's room. His door is ajar, and I look through the crack. He is sitting on the edge of his bed in his pajamas, watching the television on the bureau.
I knock and push open the door. He looks up, then back at the television.
"I don't sleep as much as I used to," he says.
I lean against the wall and pull the blanket around my shoulders. He's watching a rerun. I see James Arness and realize it's "Gunsmoke." My father used to do stunts for that show. I wonder if I'd recognize him. There's a shootout on the street, and Marshal Dillon is chasing down a bad guy. The bad guy shouts something, and I watch his mouth, listening to hear if his lines had been revoiced by people like me. When the bad guy gets shot, he flips and falls off his horse, narrowly avoiding its hooves as it gallops over him. I look to see if the stuntman could be my father. It's not. The screen goes dark before the commerical, and I see the faint reflection of my father's face in it.
"In the old days," my father says, "you weren't allowed to stand on the set next to your actor. If they caught you anywhere near him, they'd fire you on the spot."
"Why?" I say.
"You were the stuntman," he said. "You weren't supposed to exist."

When I wake up the next morning, my father is standing at the window in the kitchen, holding the curtain open with the barrel of his gun. Three cruisers are in the driveway, cops crouching behind the cars. I see the top of Bobby's head. A local television truck idles farther off. A man hoists a video camera onto his shoulder and begins filming a well-dressed female reporter as she speaks into her microphone.
"They sent out the cavalry this time," my father says. His eyes scan the driveway, following the movements of the police. A squeezed and amplified bullhorn announces, "This is your final warning. Please vacate the house now!"
"All right," my father says.
"What are you going to do?" I say, alarmed. His body is taut, and I can see the muscles in his arms, the strength of his back.
He cocks his gun.
"Dad!"
"Get down on the floor, Alice."
I fall to my stomach, my cheek pressing against the cool wood, and inch myself under the kitchen table. Within the rush of adrenaline, I also feel perversely calm, as if I could stay here forever. A window shatters. I tense up, waiting for the volley of shots. My father's footfalls are heavy on the wood floor. His scuffed cowboy boots cross my line of sight. I follow, crawling on my belly, to the living room doorway, where he stops. There's a shattered window behind the antler couch, glass strewn across the worn leather. A cannister lies in the middle of the floor and smoke hisses out from it. My father stares at the smoke, holding the gun to his chest. He turns back to the kitchen.
"Dad," I say. "What should we do?"
"Nothing," he says. He lays the gun on the kitchen table. "I'm all played out."
He walks over to the sink and looks at himself in his shaving mirror. He lifts a hand to his chin and feels the stubble there. I walk up behind him.
"I look like a guy who's been holed up in his house for too long."
"You look all right."
I study my own hard face.
"Dad?"
"What is it, Alice?"
"Nothing," I say. I want to ask him what happens to people like us, people who hide out in strangers' voices and bodies. "Nothing," I say again, watching my own mouth in the mirror.
"Come on, Alice," he says. "Let's go."
He opens the kitchen door and we walk out into the white morning. 

