 She  has  such  lovely  eyes.&quot;  The  re-  mark  had  come  from  his  mother,  on  one  of  her  visits  to  the  town  where  Henry  and  Lila,  married  to  others,  lived  at  the  time.  She  could  not  have  known  that  her  son  and  Lila  were  having  an  affair-one  which,  like  an  escaped  field  fire,  kept  flaring  up  eachtime  they  thought  they  had  stamped  it  out.  But  Lila  would  have  known  that  this  was  her  lover's  mother,  and  that  would  have  injected  an  extra  animation,  an  eye-  sparkle,  into  the  conversational  courte-  sies  she  showed  the  older  woman.  Once,  her  mother  had  been  the  visitor  to  their  superheated  circle  of  young  couples,  and  74  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  8,  2001  Henry  had  marvelled,  looking  at  this  stout,  sixty-something  woman's  profile  at  the  little  party  Lila  gave,  how  a  person  as  doughy  and  plain  and  desexed  could  have  produced  such  a  beauty,  such  a  lithe  and  wanton  source  of  rapture.  His  mother's  remark  had  given  his  illicit  love  a  ghostly  blessing,  and  the  two  women  did  sharea  love  of  nature-they  knew  the  names  of  birds  and  flowers,  and  when  he  and  Lila  met  it  was  often  in  the  wilds,  in  a  lakeside  cottage  that  a  lib-  erated  friend,  an  older  woman,  lent  her,  on  the  woodsy  far  edgeof  an  adjacent  town.  The  off-season  chill,  and  the  musty  smells  of  the  canvas  and  wicker  summer  furniture  and  a  bare  mattress  and  a  disconnected  refrigerator,  gave  way  to  the  aromas  of  their  own  naked  warmth,  as  the  lake  twinkled  outside  the  window  and  squirrels  pattered  across  the  roof.  Lila  under  him,  he  poured  his  gaze  down  into  her  widened  eyes,  indeed  lovely,  a  hazel  mixed  of  green  and  ared-  dish  brown  ringing  the  black  pupils  en-  larged  by  the  shadow  of  his  head.  There  was  a  skylight  in  the  cottage,  and  he  could  see  its  rectangle,  raggedly  edged  with  fallen  twigs  and  pine  needles,  re-  flected  in  the  wet  convexity  of  her  star-  tled,  transfixed  eyes.  His  mother  had  never  warmed  to  his  to  O  O  (1  a  SEAL  w  Z  3  3  ENTE  O  0  ©2001  FRANCESC  wife:  Irene  was  too  citified,  too  proper,  too  stoical.  ForHenry,  she  had  been  a  step  up,  into  afamily  of  comfortably  well-off  lawyers,  bankers,  and  profes-  sors,  but  in  the  small  incessant  society  of  their  home  her  dispensations  of  inti-  macy  were  measured,  and  became  more  so  rather  than  less.  Henry  tried  to  restrict  his  appetites  to  match,  and  rather  en-  joyed  his  increasing  dryness,  his  ever  more  effortless  impersonation  of  a  well-  bred  stick.  His  mother,  whose  ambitions  for  him  took  something  florid  from  her  unfulfilled  hopes  for  herself,  saw  this  constriction  and  resented  it;  her  resent-  ment  fortified  him  when,  with  Lila  more  intensely  than  with  several  others,  he  strayed  from  fidelity  and  inhaled  the  wild,  damp  outdoor  air.  Damp:  he  never  forgot  how  Lila  had  abruptly  stripped,  onesunny  but  chill  October  day,  and  executed  a  perfect  jack  knife-herbottom  a  sudden  white  heart,  split  down  the  middle,  in  his  vision-  into  the  lake,  off  the  not  yet  disassem-  bled  dock  and  float.  She  surfaced  with  her  head  small  and  soaked  as  an  otter's,  her  eyelids  fluttering  and  her  mouth  ex-  claiming,  &quot;Woooh!&quot;  «Didn't  that  kill  you?&quot;  he  asked,  stand-  ingclothed  on  the  wobbly  float,  glanc-  ing  anxiously  about  for  the  spying  strang-  ers  that  all  these  autumnal  trees  might  conceal.  &quot;It's  ecstasy,&quot;  she  told  him,  grimacing  to  keep  her  teeth  from  chattering.  &quot;If  you  go  forward  to  meet  it.  Come  on.  Come  in,  Henry.&quot;  Treading  water,  she  spread  her  arms  and  butterflied  her  body  up  so  her  breasts  were  exposed.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;please,&quot;  yet  had  no  choice,  as  he  saw  this  erotic  contest,  but  to  drop  his  clothes,  folding  them  well  back  from  the  splash,  and  to  dare  an  ungainly,  heart-stopping  lurch  into  the  black  lake  water.  The  pink  leaves  of  swamp  maples,  withered  into  shallow  boat  shapes,  were  floating  near  his  eyes  when  he  came  up;  his  submerged  body  felt  swollen  and  blazing,  as  if  lightning  had  struck  it.  Lila  was  doing  an  efficient  crawl,  her  tendony  feet  kicking  up  white  water,  away  from  him,  toward  the  center  of  the  lake.  He  gasped  for  breath,  dog-  paddling  back  to  the  dock,  andfrom  this  lower  perspective  saw  the  trees  all  around  as  the  sides  of  a  golden  well,  an  encir-  clement  holding  him  at  the  center  of  the  dome  of  sky.  This  was  one  of  those  mo-  ments,  he  thought,  when  a  life  reaps  the  fruits  that  nature  has  stored  up.  This  was  health:  that  little  wet  head,  those  bright  otter  eyes,  that  tufted,  small-breasted  body  at  his  disposal  when  the  electricity  ebbed  from  his  veins  and  their  skins  were  rubbed  dry  on  the  towels  Lila  had  fore-  sightedly  brought.  But  even  then  the  less  healthy  world  intruded.  He  wondered  if  Irene  would  smell  the  black  lake  on  him,  with  its  muck  of  dead  leaves.  She  would  wonder  why  his  hair  was  damp.  He  was  not  good  at  adultery,  not  as  good  as  Lila,  because  he  could  not  give  himself,  entirely,  to  the  moment,  rushing  forward  to  meetit.  His  mother's  blessing  did  not  save  him  from  gastritis,  and  an  ominous  diagnosis  from  his  doctor:  &quot;Something's  eating  at  you.&quot;  The  justice  of  the  phrase  startled  Henry;  his  desire  for  Lila  was  a  kind  of  beast.  It  would  pounce  at  unexpected  moments,  and  gnawed  at  him  in  the  dark.  &quot;Work,&quot;  he  lied.  &quot;Can't  you  ease  up?&quot;  &quot;Not  yet.  I  have  to  get  to  the  next  level.&quot;  The  doctor  sighed  and  said-there  was  no  telling,  from  his  compressed  and  weary  mouth,  how  much  he  guessed  or  knew-'&quot;In  the  meantime,  Henry,  you  have  to  live  on  this  level.  Give  up  some-  thing.  You're  trying  to  do  too  much.&quot;  This  last  was  said  with  an  emphasis  that  struck  Henry  as  uncanny,  like  his  moth-  er's  blessing  out  of  the  blue.  The  air  it-  self,  his  illusion  sometimes  was,  hovered  solicitously  over  him,  a  web  of  witnesses,  superintending  his  fate,  while  he  plod-  ded  on  in  a  fog.  He  resigned  from  his  church's  fund-  raising  drive,  of  which  he  was  co-captain.  This,  and  giving  up  coffee  and  cigarettes,  made  his  stomach  a  little  better,  but  it  did  not  cease  to  chafe  until  Lila  suddenly,  for  no  reason  she  ever  explained,  con-  fessed  to  Pete,  her  husband.  Within  the  year,  they  moved  to  [REDACTED];  within  a  few  more  years,  the  word  came  back,  they  were  divorced.  Her  marriage  had  always  been  mysterious  to  him.  &quot;He  doesn't  need  me,&quot;  she  had  once  said,  her  eyes  breaking  into  rare  tears,  while  she  focussed  somewhere  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;He  needs  my  asshole.&quot;  Henry  couldn't  quite  believe  what  he  heard,  and  didn't  dare  ask  her  to  clarify.  There  were  many  things,  it  occurred  to  him,  that  he  didn't  want  to  know;,  no  wonder  other  peo-  plestruck  him  as  so  wise.  Though  life  brought  him  advancement  at  work,  and  vacations  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],and  grandchildren,  and,  with  Irene's  guid-  ance,  an  ever  more  persuasive  imperson-  ation  of  a  well-bred  stick,  there  was  never  another  beast;  such  fires  burn  up  the  field.  In  time,  Irene  died,  of  cancer  in  her  sixties,  and  he  was  free.  By  way  of  his  friends-those  inescapable  knowing  friends-he  had  kept  track  of  Lila,  and  knew  that  she  was  again  unmarried,  after  two  post-Pete  marriages:  the  first  to  an  older  man  who  had  left  her  some  money,  the  second  to  a  younger  manwho  had  proved,  of  course,  unsuitable.  He  learned  her  address,  and  wrote  heranote  sug-  gesting  he  come  see  her.  It  had  been  his  and  Irene's  custom  to  visit  [REDACTED]  for  two  weeks  in  midwinter,  staying  at  a  favorite  inn  on  an  island  off  the  west  coast-more  Irene's  favorite  than  his.  The  inn  smelled  of  varnished  pine  and  teak,  and  had  stuffed  tarpon  and  sword-  fish  mounted  in  the  long  corridors,  and  photographs  of  old  fishing  parties  and  hurricane  damage;  on  the  sunny  broad  stair  landings  stood  cased  collections  of  shells,  the  ink  on  the  dried  curling  labels  quite  faded.  It  smelled  of  [REDACTED]  when  it  was  a  far  place,  a  rich  man's  somewhat  Spartan  paradise,  and  not  yet  the  great  democracy's  theme  park  and  retirement  home.  Yet  since  Irene's  death,  after  the  two  years  of  shared  agony,  of  hospital  trekking,  of  rising  and  falling  hopes,  of  resolute  hopelessness  and  then  these  posthumous  months  of  relief,  grief,  and  alarmingly  persistent  absence,  Henry  had  grown  timid  of  straying  from  the  paths  she  had  marked  out  for  them  to  travel.  The  inn  was  on  the  west  coast,  below  [REDACTED],  and  Lila's  condo  in  Deer-  field  Beach,  on  the  east  coast,  above  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  so  it  was  an  arduous  drive,  south  and  then  east  into  the  sun,  against  what  felt  like  amassive  grain  in  the  mo-  notonous  Everglades  landscape.  Then  the  east-coast  congestion,  the  number  of  aggressive  dark-skinned  drivers,  the  blocks  of  white-roofed  one-floor  houses  laid  out  for  miles  on  the  flat  acres  of  sand  like  a  kind  of  sunbaked  greater  Chi-  cago,  disoriented  him;  old  age,  he  was  discovering,  arrived  in  increments  of  uncertainty.  Street  signs,  rearview  mir-  rors,  and  one's  own  ability  to  improvise  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  8,  2001  T5     could  no  longer  be  trusted.  He  asked  di-  rections  three  times,  steering  away  from  the  young  people  on  the  bright  streets  and  pulling  up  alongside  skittish  and  wary  seniors,  before  finding  Lila's  condo  complex;  squintingly  he  doped  outthe  correct  entrance  and  where  the  parking  area  for  visitors  was  hidden.  He  was  in-  side  a  three-story  quadrangle,  each  unit  facing  inward  with  a  screened  sunroom.  Piece  of  scribbled  paper  in  hand,  he  matched  the  number  there  to  one  on  a  ground-floor  door;  when  his  ring  was  answered  he  had  trouble  relating  the  Lila  of  his  memory  and  imagination  to  the  tiny  woman,  her  nut-colored  face  criss,  crossed  by  wrinkles,  who  opened  the  door  to  him.  Her  face  had  seen  a  lot  of  sun  in  these  past  thirty  years.  &quot;Henry  dear,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  tone  more  of  certification  thanof  greeting.  &quot;You're  over  anhour  late.&quot;  &quot;The  drive  was  longer  than  I  thought,  and  I  kept  going  around  and  around  within  a  couple  blocks  of  here.  I'm  so  sorry.  You  always  said  I  was  slow.&quot;  From  the  way  she  held  her  face  up  and  mo-  tionless  he  gathered  he  was  supposed  to  kiss  it;  he  abruptly  realized  he  had  brought  her  no  present.  It  had  been  the  nature  of  their  old  relationship  for  him  simply  to  bring  his  body,  and  she  hers.  Her  cheek  had  a  dry  pebbled  texture  beneath  his  lips,  but  warm,  like  a  dog's  paw  pads.  &quot;I  can't  complain  lunch  has  gotten  cold,&quot;  Lila  said,  &quot;since  it's  cold  salad,  chicken,  in  the  fridge.  I  began  to  think  you  might  not  make  it  at  all.&quot;  More  than  once  before,  he  had  failed  to  show  up-some  sudden  obstruction  at  work  or  in  his  duties  at  home.  That  her  anger  never  lasted  or  triggered  aper-  manent  rupture  had  indicated  to  him  that,  strangely,  he  had  a  hold  over  her  much  like  hers  over  him.  In  her  voice  now,  he  heard  hardly  a  trace  of  Southern  accent,  just  a  softening  of  the  edges.  But  her  manner  was  edgy  enough;  she  might  be  one  of  those  spoiled,  much-married  women  who  say  whatever  rude  sharp  thing  comes  to  them,  take  it  or  leave  it,  as  if  sassy  were  cute.  Her  clothes-laven-  der  slacks,  a  peach  silk  shirt  with  the  two  top  buttons  undone,  white  platform  san-  dals,  magenta  toenails-had  that  Flor-  ida  swagger,  which  women  anywhere  else  wouldn't  dare  at  her  age.  &quot;Please  forgive  me,&quot;  he  said,  playing  his  courtly  card,  until  the  drift  of  the hand  came  clearer.  His  heart  hadbeen  thumping  throughout  his  long  drive,  to  the  point  where  he  imagined  an  onset  of  fibrillations,  and  his  panic  had  grown  as  he  searched  theblocks  of  Deerfield  Beach,  with  their  unreal  green  lawns  and  ornamental  lemon  trees.  Now  that  he  was  here  in  Lila's  presence,  a  step  away  from  embracing  her,  a  kind  of  glazed  calm,  a  sweat  of  suspension,  came  over  him,  as  it  used  to  when  Irene  would  take  a  sudden  downward  turn,  or  during  those  endless  last  nights  when  there  was  noth-  ing  for  him  to  do  but  stay  awake,  hold  her  hand,  and  feed  her  ice  chips.  How  marvellous  he  had  been,  the  network  of  friends  confided  to  him  when  it  was  finally  over.  To  himself  he  had  just  been  dogged,  obedient  to  one  of  the  few  still  unchallenged  phrases  of  the  marriage  vows,  &quot;in  sickness  and  in  health.&quot;  He  became  aware,  at  his  back,  of  -Franz  Wright  splashing  sounds.  There  was  a  pool  in  the  center  of  the  quadrangle  of  con-  dos,  and  her  sliding  doors  were  open  to  admit  its  sounds,  along  with  those  of  shuffleboard  disks  sliding  on  concrete,  cars  revving  up,  palm  trees  rustling  in  their  antediluvian  discomfort,  glasses  and  ice  cubes  clinking  on  a  tray  some-  where  in  another  screened-in  room  looking  out  on  the  wide  shared  space.  A  memory  of  Lila's  little  lake,  her  white  body  knifing  into  the  cold  water,  brought  him  to  recognize,  as  she  swayed  on  her  ungainly  footgear  ahead  of  him  toward  her  dining  room,  that  she  had  kept  lithe,  though  the  years  had  redistributed  her  weight  toward  the  middle,  and  loosened  the  flesh  of  her  brown  arms.  Her  salt-  and-pepper  hair  was  cut  short  in  this  hot  climate  and  fitted  close  around  her  tidy  skull,  on  its  supple  swimmer's  neck.  The  old  beast  lived,  and  sluggishly  stirred     within  him,  chafing  his  stomach;  in  an  abrupt  collapse  of  all  the  rest  of  their  lives  he  felt  at  home  with  this  woman,  their  two  bodies  moving  phantasmally  among  the  rush-seated  chairs,  the  glass  tabletops,  the  faintly  musty  furniture  of  a  perpetual  summer.  &quot;I  always  did,&quot;  Lila  said.  Forgive  him.  For  what?  For  fuck-  ing  her?  For  leaving  afterward,  in  his  own  car,  hurriedly  down  the  dirt  road  in  a  semi-panic?  Over  the  chicken  salad  and  white  wine,  and  iced  tea  and  Key-lime  pie,  they  caught  up  with  enough  of  their  de-  cades  apart.  Her  husbands,  his  spousal  tragedy,  their  scattered  children,  the  ex-  pectable  aches  and  predictable  exercises  with  which  they  tried  to  stay  in  shape,  to  preserve  the  sensations  of  youth  as  long  as  they  could.  They  shared  a  vanity,  it  seemed  to  him,  in  regard  to  their  physi-  cal  health.  &quot;Why  did  you  tell  Pete,  and  come  South?&quot;  he  asked  at  last.  &quot;Was  it  to  es-  cape  me?  Was  there  no  other  way?&quot;  It  was  as  if  she  had  forgotten,  and  had  to  strain  to  see  such  a  distant  moment.  &quot;Oh  .  ..  we'd  often  talked  about  [REDACTED],  and  then  the  right  job  for  him  came  up.  I  had  to  clean  house.  You  were  dirt  under  the  bed.  Dear  Henry,  don't  look  so  sad.  It  was  time.&quot;  As  she  turnedher  head,  he  re-  membered  her  mother's  profile;  Lila's  was  now  identical.  ila  had,  he  saw  as  he  watched  her  talk  and  gesture,  become  vulgar,  in  the  way  of  a  woman  with  not  enough  to  do  but  think  about  her  body  and  her  means;  yet  a  vulgar  greed  for  life  was  part  of  what  he  had  loved.  It  had  been  direct  and  simple.  In  two  hours,  they  had  said  enough;  they  had  never  been  ones  for  long  confidences  or  compli-  cated  confessions.  Their  situations  had  been  obvious,  each  to  the  other,  and  their  time  together  had  been  too  in-  tense,  too  rare,  too  scandalously  stolen,  for  much  besides  wonderment  and  pos-  session.  Now,  as  the  shadows  deepened  in  her  touching  condo,  with  its  metal  furniture  and  mall-bought  watercolors,  and  the  westering  sun  reached  across  the  rattan  mats  toward  the  room  where  they  sat  still  at  the  glass  table,  having  re-  turned  to  white  wine,  a  vast  uneasiness  seized  him;  he  was  not  used  to  being  alone  with  her  this  long,  this  late  into  the  afternoon.  She  stood  up,  firmly  on  her  bare  feet.  She  had  eased  out  of  the  awkward  san-  dals;  the  straps  had  left  red  welts  on  her  bony  blue-veined  insteps.  They  had  been  tendony  and  blue-veined  thirty  years  ago.  &quot;How  about  a  swim?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;So  late?&quot;  &quot;It's  the  bestpart  of  the  afternoon.  The  air's  still  warm,  the  kids  have  gone  in,  hydrotherapy  is  over.&quot;  She  touched  her  shoulder,  as  if  to  begin  undressing.  &quot;I  don't  have  a  suit.&quot;  &quot;You  can  use  one  of  Jim's.  He  left  about  three.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;You  can  let  out  the  waist  string.  He  was  just  a  kid.  He  used  to  strum  his  knuckles  on  his  abs  and  expect  me  to  be  thrilled.&quot;  Henry  stood,  pleased  to  be  standing,  once  again,  and  without  hurry,  next  to  Lila-her  serious  small  mouth,  its  upper  lip  now  wearing  a  comb  of  small  creases,  and  her  lovely  eyes,  gleaming  like  jewels  in  crumpled  paper,  bright  hazel  remem-  brances  of  his  mother's  desire  to  have  him  live,  to  be  a  man,  for  her.  He  pan-  icked  at  the  invitation.  &quot;I-&quot;  He,  too,  had  been  unfaithful,  as  she  had  with  Jim's  abs,  with  Jim's  predeces-  sor's  money,  with  Pete  and  his  uses  of  her.  For  two  years  he  had  lain  beside  Irene  feeling  her  disease  growing  like  a  child  of  theirs.  He  had  stayed  awake  in  the  shadow  of  her  silence,  marvelling  at  the  stark  untouchable  beauty  of  her  sto-  icism;  in  the  dark  her  pain  had  seemed  an  incandescence.  Toward  the  end,  in  the  intervals  when  the  hazeof  pain-  killers  lifted,  she  spoke  to  him  as  she  never  had,  lightly,  as  to  another  child  whom  shedid  not  know  well  but  with  whom  she  had  been  fated  to  while  away  a  long  afternoon.  &quot;I  think  they  might  have  been  just  kidding  us,&quot;  she  confided  one  time.  &quot;Suppose  you  don't  get  to  take  a  trip  up  to  Heaven?&quot;  Or  again,  &quot;I  knew  I  was  boring  to  you,  but  I  didn't  know  how  else  to  be.&quot;  In  her  puzzlement  at  his  tears  she  would  touch  his  hair,  not  quite  daring  to  touch  his  face.  &quot;I'd  better  get  back,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Back  to  what?&quot;  Lilaasked.  To  that  inn  Irene  had  loved,  with  its  stuffed  fish  and  nameless  saved  shells,  its  Spartan  comforts.  To  therepose  he  found  in  imagining  her  with  him.  Since  her  death  she  was  wrapped  around  him  like  a  shroud  of  gold  and  silver  thread.  &quot;You  were  always  getting  back,&quot;  Lila  said.  Her  tone  wasn'trancorous,  merely  reflective,  her  tidy  head  tilted  perkily  as  if  to  acknowledge  what  she  was:  a  little  old  lady  still  game  to  take  her  chances,  to  play  her  hand.  &quot;But  you're  free  now.&quot;  Back  in  the  front  room,  Henry  al-  ready  saw  himself  out  the  door,  under  an  enclosed  sky  that  was  rectangular  this  time.  It  would  be  a  long  drive,  against  setting  sunlight,  through  the  great  south  [REDACTED]  swamp.  &quot;Well,  what  is  free?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  guess  it's  always  been  a  state  of  mind.  Looking  back  at  us-maybe  that  was  as  freeas  things  get.&quot;  