BEULAH  BERLIN,  AN  AZ  Angst,  ennui,  weltschmerz,  cafard,  taedium  vitae,  anomie.  ...  Curious  how  oddly  beguiling  these  words  are.  I  almost  don't  mind  suffering  from  the  conditions  they  describe.  Some  of  the  so-called  &quot;beautiful  diseases,&quot;  perhaps.  But  I  exaggerate:  I  realized  I  was  in  trou-  ble  only  when  I  went  to  [REDACTED].  erlin  gave  me  my  name  and  was  the  making  of  me.  Before  [REDACTED],  ev-  erything  was  conventionally  straight-  forward:  I  was  born;  I  became  a  child;  I  went  to  school,  then  college  (media  studies),  then  film  school.  My  life  was  not  particularly  interesting.  In  film  school,  I  wanted  to  bean  editor  (it  was  the  idea  of  control),  but  changed  my  mind  after  a  year  and  decided  to  become  an  art  direc-  tor.  (I  was  good  at  drawing.)  How  do  you  know  when  your  life  is  intrinsically  uninteresting?  You  just  do.  Some  people  live  quietly,  unhappily,  with  this  knowl-  edge;others  do  something  about  it.  At  a  film  festival  in  [REDACTED],  where  a  short  film  I  had  art-directed  was  being  screened,  I  met  my  first  husband,  Georg.  He  was  an  artist  and,  after  the  festival,  I  spontaneously  decided  to  follow  him  to  [REDACTED].  I  was  twenty-two  years  old;  I  knew  that  this  would  be  the  begin-  ning  of  everything.  We  were  married  a  month  later.  A  man  has  just  walked  by,  leading  a  Great  Dane  and  a  dachshund.  How  pe-  culiar.  (I  am  writing  this  in  [REDACTED].)  Georg  and  his  friends  staged  an  ex-  hibition  called  &quot;Stunk&quot;  (it  should  be  pronounced  with  a  German  &quot;s&quot;).  They  rented  a  floor  of  an  office  building  for  a  month  on  the  Somethingstrasse  and  it  became  their  art  gallery.  (Stunék=Kunst.)  Georg  asked  me  to  contribute,  and  that  was  how  &quot;The  Transparent  Wardrobe&quot;  (and  Beulah  [REDACTED])  came  into  being.  After  being  Beulah  McTurk  for  twenty-  two  years,  I  knew  that  Beulah  [REDACTED]  was  bound  to  be  more  intriguing,  alto-  gether  cooler.  78  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  6,  2000  BY  WILLIAM  BOYD  Color  dominated  my  wardrobe  in  those  days.  I  wore  the  brightest  clothes-as  camouflage.  (Now  I  wear  only  black,  white,  and  gray.)  At  the  &quot;Stunk&quot;  show,  I  hung  my  garish  clothes  on  chrome  rails  and  wore  nothing  but  a  black  brassiere  and  panties.  People  then  selected  a  combination  of  items  from  my  wardrobe,  wrote  the  request  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and  for  the  next  hour  I  wore  what-  ever  they  had  suggested.  A  black  stiletto  and  a  brown  hiking  boot;  a  leather  jacket  and  a  bikini  bottom;  a  straw  sombrero  and  pajama  trousers;  a  tartan  shawl  and  fishnet  tights.  I  took  a  Polaroid  photo-  graph  of  each  combination  and  pinned  it  on  a  giant  pinboard.  I  have  to  say  that  without  Beulah  [REDACTED]  and  her  transpar-  ent  wardrobe  the  &quot;Stunk&quot;  show  would  be  completely  forgotten.  Ninety-nine  per  cent  of  the  press  coverage  was  about  me.  By  the  time  the  lease  ran  out,  I  had  overa  thousand  photographs:  the  pinboard  was  a  multicolored  collage  of  various  Beulah  4765726d616e79s.  Georg  never  really  forgave  me,  I  now  see  in  retrospect,  and  from  then  on  our  relationship  went  steadily  to  the  dogs.  Dogs  are  wonderful  animals,  and  it's  a  source  of  endless  regret  to  me  that  I've  never  been  able  to  have  one  as  a  pet-  because  of  my  allergies.  Who  was  it  who  said,  &quot;T  he  more  Isee  of  man  the  more  I  love  my  dog&quot;?  Matthew  Arnold?  Nietszche?  Somebody.  Certainly  dogs  are  higher  in  my  estimation  than  my  ex-husbands.  Well,  my  first  and  second  exes,  definitely,  not  necessarily  my  soon-to-be  third  ex.  «T,  xudations&quot;  was  the  name  of  Georg's  next  show.  (We  were  still  married,  just.)  If  &quot;Stunk&quot;  made  me  famous,  &quot;Exu-  dations&quot;  made  me  notorious.  Georg's  plan  was  to  remain  inside  our  apartment  for  a  year  and  collect  and  preserve  every-  thing  his  body  exuded.  Everything,  yes.  For  instance,  he  strained  his  shaving  water  through  muslin  to  recover  the  bris-  tles.  I  don't  need  to  go  into  the  details.  'These  &quot;exudations,&quot;  bottled  and  boxed,  sealed  and  carefully  labelled,  would  then  form  the  basis  of  a  touring  exhibition,  the  idea  being  that  they  provided  an  idio-  syncratic  but  perfect  record  of  Georg's  body  over  one  year.  I  lasted  three  weeks,  then  fell  seriously  ill  with  some  gastro-  bacteriological  infection.  Georg  refused  to  leave  the  flat-his  work  was  still  in  progress,  he  argued,  and,  moreover,  he  was  in  perfect  health-and  eventually  the  po-  lice  had  to  break  the  doors  down.  (Also,  the  neighbors  were  complaining.)  Dis-  infection  and  fumigation  followed,  and  &quot;Exudations&quot;  was  no  more  than  a  brief  footnote  in  the  history  of  contemporary  German  art.  Our  marriage  didn't  survive.  Georg  went  to  live  in  a  shack  in  Ibiza.  I  haven't  seen  him  since.  I  now  realize  that  Georg  was  an  accident  waiting  to  happen,  a  faulty  missile  they  forgot  to  test-fire.  “Fire  one!&quot;  Cornelius  exclaims  each  time  he  has  his  orgasm.  Cornelius  is  my  secret  boyfriend-my  U-boat  cap-  tain.  I  used  to  think  this  was  funny,  but  it's  beginning  to  irritate  me.  (Otto  knows  nothing  about  Cornelius.)  Cornelius's  flat  is  very  cold  and  I'm  always  com-  plaining.  I  grew  up  with  heat,  I  tell  him.  I'm  used  to  being  warm.  Cornelius:  &quot;You  lived  in  the  tropics?  Colonial  girl,  eh?  Where-Africa?  India?&quot;  Me:  &quot;No.  England,  43616e616461bourne.&quot;  My  father's  business  was  the  sale  and  installation  of  gas  and  electric  fires.  We  had  no  central  heating  in  our  house,  and  electric  fires  burned  everywhere,  three  or  four  to  a  room,  their  orange  bars  glow-  ing  in  their  caged  chrome  chambers.  Even  in  summer  we  sweltered  in  that  dry,  unforgiving  heat.  What's  the  point  of  being  in  the  electric-fire  business,  my  fa-  ther  argued,  if  you  can't  keep  yourself  nice  and  warm?  When  he  became  ill,  I  blamed  it  on  this  obsession  with  electric  warmth,  and  after  he  and  my  mother  divorced  (she  couldn't  stand  the  heat  anymore)  I  urged     him  to  start  a  new  career  and  move  away.  But  he  stayed  in  43616e616461bourne,  and  his  fires  continued  to  burn.  A  very  English  stubbornness,  Cor-  nelius  says,  highly  amused.  Perhaps  he's  right,  I  now  think,  perhaps  it  is  the  place's  fault-England's.  lands,  my  father  would  claim,  were  the  real  cause  of  the  lassitude  and  z  weight  loss  that  would  later  afflict  him.  g  He  was  in  no  pain,  but  it  was  clear  some-  3  thing  was  profoundly  wrong  with  him.  3  He  started  taking  all  manner  of  self-  prescribed  vitamin-and-health-food  com-  binations  to  battle  his  &quot;gland&quot;  problem.  Ginseng  and  cod-liver  oil.  Nettle  tea  and  royal  jelly.  Huge  amounts  of  vitamin  E  and  strange  seaweed  stews.  He  munched  sunflower  seeds  all  day.  Nothing  worked.  I  took  the  urn  with  my  father's  ashes  across  the  channel  to  [REDACTED]  and  scat-  tered  them  on  the  battlefields  of  the  [REDACTED].  I  thought  he  would  appreciate  being  abroad,  away  from  43616e616461bourne.  I  wandered  about  the  meadows-it  was  summer-taking  a  pinch  of  ash  from  time  to  time  and  allowing  it  to  fall  from  my  fingers  and  be  carried  away  by  the  breeze.  The  air  was  full  of  the  scent  of  freshly  cut  hay.  Hay  fever  suggests  summer.  Mowers  in  the  thickening  meadows  and  the  pollens  taking  to  the  air  as  the  grasses  fall  to  the  advancing  scythe.  Not  in  my  case:  for  me,hay  fever  is  a  spring  phe-  nomenon.  T.  S.  Eliot  knew  what  he  was  talking  about.  All  that  &quot;April  is  the  cru-  ellest  month&quot;  stuff;  he  was  clearly  an  early-season,  pollen-allergies  sufferer.  But  now  my  allergies  are  with  me  all  year  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  6,  2000  T9  long.  Every  month  is  April.  I  open  a  newspaper,  and  my  nose  begins  torun;  a  woman  passes  me,  and  her  perfume  causes  my  throat  to  contract.  (Why  do  these  women  douse  themselves  in  so  much  scent?  Why  this  love  of  chemi-  cal  odors?)  At  night,  I  lie  in  bedand  my  hip  bones  ache  as  if  I  had  arthritis.  I'm  not  alone,  I  know;  we're  all  becoming  slowly  poisoned,  oversensitized.  We  are  all,  in  our  own  ways,  ill.  liness  casts  such  a  bright  light  that  the  rest  of  life  retreats  into  the  shadows  be-  yond  its  refulgent  glare.  When  my  father  was  ill,  no  matter  where  I  was,  or  what  I  was  doing,  I  seemed  to  think  about  him  a  dozen  times  an  hour.  Eventually,  there  was  nothing  for  it,  and  I  moved  back  to  [REDACTED]-  bourne,  to  a  bed-and-breakfast  in  the  same  street.  He  never  went  to  hospital;  district  nurses  used  to  visit  him  throughout  the  day,  while  I  provided  him  with  increas-  ingly  deliquescent,  then  entirely  liquid,  meals.  Soon  all  he  wanted  was  beef  con-  sommeé.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  he  would  say,  as  I  brought  him  the  steaming  bowl,&quot;soup  du  jour.&quot;  ournal  keeping  has  sustained  me  since  I  was  twelve.  Over  the  last  few  years,  however,  I've  refined  the  process.  When  I  wake,  I  write  down  the  first  thing  that  occurs  to  me,  and  before  I  go  to  bed  I  write  down  the  last  thing.  You  should  try  it:  it  is  astonishingly  meaningful.  Those  two  sentences  define  and  plot  your  life  in  the  most  random  yet  illuminating  way.  I  look  back  to  April  14,  1999.  Morning:  &quot;Gianluca  is  a  pure,  unreconstructed  bas-  tard.&quot;  Night:  &quot;Put  out  rubbish.&quot;  Novem-  ber  22,  1996.  Morning:  &quot;Wintry  sun-  light  makes  my  room  look  dirty.&quot;  Night:  &quot;Edith  Wharton  is  good  but  boring,  must  resist  the  temptation  to  skip.&quot;  ipling  wrote  a  book  called  &quot;Stalky  &amp;  Co.&quot;  In  it  there  is  a  character  called  M'Turk,  which  I  suppose  is  a  form  of  McTurk  (though  I  hadn't  seen  the  apos-  trophe  before).  It  is  the  only  McTurk  I've  found  in  literature.  My  own  name,  Beulah,  comes  out  of  a  book,  a  book  that  my  mother  was  read-  ing  before  I  was  born.  &quot;The  Knights  of  the  Golden  Horse-Shoe,&quot;  by  William  Alexander  Caruthers,  set  in  the  antebel-  lum  Deep  South.  My  mother  was  on  a  Deep  South  craze  at  the  time.  I  suppose  it  took  her  away  from  43616e616461bourne  and  80  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  6,  2000  my  father's  shopof  fire.  &quot;'The  Land  of  Beulah,&quot;  she  used  to  sigh,  and  thus  I  was  named.  But  Beulah  McTurk  is  all  wrong.  It  suggests  to  me  a  plump  and  heavy  woman,  whereas  I  am  tall  and  very,  very  slim.  Consequently,  I  was  happy  to  be-  come  Beulah  [REDACTED],  to  be  named  af-  ter  a  city.  It  suggests  something  steely,  tougher,  as  if  I  had  surrounded  myself  with  a  protectiveforce  field,  a  nonstick  coat  of  shellac,  say,  or  Teflon.  ondon:  too  weird  and  wired,  these  days.  New  York:  too  busy.  San  Fran-  cisco:  too  healthy.  [REDACTED]:  too  self-conscious.  All  these  cities  I  have  known  well,  or  as  well  as  any  one  person  can  know  a  city.  There  are  times  in  your  life,  though,  when  relaxation  is  what  you  crave,  and  I  had  to  leave  [REDACTED],  felt  the  panicked  urge  to  flee.  So  where  else  would  I  go  but  [REDACTED]?  It  drew  me  as  a  candle  flame  draws  a  moth.  D  {}{I  other  disapproved  of  my  name  change.  She  also  disapproved  of  my  life  as  an  artist,  of  Georg,  my  first  hus-  band,  and  of  Otto,  my  third.  I  never  told  her  about  my  second.  But  I  have  a  feel-  ing  she  would  like  Cornelius,  my  secret  boyfriend:  he  is  handsome,  selfish,  and  raffish,  like  a  beau  in  a  Caruthers  novel.  Otto,  my  third  husband,  is  English  despite  his  Germanic  Christian  name.  He's  called  Otto  Carlyle,  and  he  repairs  computers.  He  declines  to  use  common  terms  ofendearment  like  &quot;darling&quot;  and  &quot;sweetheart&quot;  and  calls  me  instead  things  like  &quot;my  pragmatic  monad&quot;  or  &quot;myam-  brosial  liquor.&quot;  I  rise  to  the  challenge.  When  he  leaves  on  his  trips  or  when  we  speak  on  the  phone,  we  sign  off  like  this.  Otto:  &quot;Goodbye,  my  fish-and-chips.&quot;  Me:  &quot;Goodbye,  bird  with  coppery,  keen  claws.&quot;  Otto:  &quot;All  love  to  the  slender  gymnast.&quot;  Me:  &quot;See  you  soon,  windmill  of  my  mind.&quot;  Otto  is  very  tall,  and  after  my  father's  death  I  wanted,  for  some  vague  reason,  to  be  with  a  tall  man.  Otto  is  six  feet  four;  I  am  five  feet  nine.  ineteen  sixty-nine.  The  year  of  my  birth.  March  27,  1969.  That  week,  the  first  Concorde  was  undergoing  its  test  flights.  John  Lennon  and  Yoko  Ono  were  doing  their  bed-in  for  peace  at  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  am  a  child  of  the  sixties,  and  it  seems  to  me  only  apt  that  I  should  now  be  back  in  [REDACTED].  Full  circle,  after  a  fashion.  A  near-perfect  O.  tto  has  just  called  from  Dakar.  Whenever  he's  abroad  and  he  calls,  I  place  a  photograph  of  him  in  front  of  me.  It  was  taken  at  a  beach  café  in  Antibes  when  we  were  staying  with  my  then  gal-  lerist  Clive  Count  (the  &quot;0&quot;  is  silent,  I  used  to  say  later,  after  he  dropped  me).  Otto  is  wearing  surfing  trunks  and  a  baggy  T-shirt,  his  hair  is  wetand  sticks  up  in  spikes-he  looks  like  an  impossibly  lanky  waif.  I've  come  to  hate  the  disembodied  voice  you  hear  on  a  telephone,  but  it's  never  so  bad  when  you're  looking  at  a  photo.  hotography  is  the  art  form  I  now  practice.  After  I  stopped  touring  with  the  Transparent  Wardrobe,  I  began  photographing  people's  feet.  Of  all  our  body  parts,  the  foot  is  the  one  we  treat  the  most  harshly.  Not  even  our  faces  show  with  such  brutal  candor  how  we  age.  Our  feet  get  stuffed  into  un-  suitable  shoes,  are  walked  upon  for  miles,  and  then  are  scarcely  ministered  to  (oc-  casionally  cutting  toenails,  occasionally  painting  said  toenails).  Year  on  year,  the  calluses,  corns,  chilblains,  andverrucae-  steady  deformations-alter  our  feet  in  the  most  visible  way.  I  have  twenty-five  subjects  (young  and  old),  and  every  six  months  I  photograph  their  faces  and  their  feet,  juxtaposed.  Already  two  have  dropped  out;  the  experience  is  too  distressing,  they  say,  as  if  the  ticking  clock  of  their  own  mortality  is  manifest  there,at  the  end  of  their  legs,  hidden  in  their  shoes.  Perhaps  you  saw  my  exhibition  in  Ghent,  or  Basel,  or  the  one  in  [REDACTED]  Gallery  [REDACTED],  in  Lon-  don?  Some  people's  feet  look  like  vegetable  growths,  others  like  eroded  landscapes.  The  exhibitions  were  a  great  success.  Every  morning,  before  the  doors  opened,  there  would  be  a  substantial  queue.  wertyuiop,  that's  what  I'm  going  to  call  my  child,  male  or  female,  whenever  I  have  him  or  her.  He  or  she  can  then  make  any  name  they  want  out  of  that  combination  of  letters.  Trey.  Opi.  Yute.  Power.  I'm  not  sure,  however,  whether  I  want  Otto  to  be  the  father.  I  told  him  it  was  all  over  between  us,  but  he  has  followed  me  to  [REDACTED]  and,  some-  how,  is  living  in  this  flat  I  have  rented  on  the  Kaizersgracht.  He  says  that  Schiphol  airport  is  the  perfect  hub  for  his  business.  (The  computers  he  fixes  are  huge:  airports,  hospitals,  government  departments,  often  abroad;  he  was  even  hired  by  the  [REDACTED]  for  two  months.)  During  the  hours  he  spends  in  the  air,  he  writes.  He's  begun  a  novel,  but  all  I  know  is  that  it's  called  &quot;Gar-  den  Airplane  Trap&quot;  (after  the  painting  by  Max  Ernst;  I  think  Ernst  has  the  best  titles  in  modern  art).  Otto's  often  away  doing  his  mysterious  job,  and,  even  though  that's  when  I  see  Cornelius,  I  find  I  miss  Otto.  Then,  when  he  returns,  I  resent  him.  I  want  his  presence  and  also  his  absence.  When  he's  not  at  work,  he  spends  most  of  his  time  writing  his  novel  and  reading.  Reading  is  my  great  solace.  Some  years  ago,  faced  by  the  millions  of  books,  I  decided  to  make  my  reading  systematic.  So  every  year  I  choose  a  theme  and  read  only  the  books  that  fall  into  the  specific  category.  For  example,  in  1995  I  read  only  books  whose  titles  were  women's  names.  (Emma,&quot;  &quot;Madame  Bovary,&quot;  &quot;Thérése  Raquin,&quot;  &quot;Esther  Waters,&quot;  &quot;Diana  of  the  Crossways,&quot;  &quot;The  History  of  Miss  Betty  Thoughtless.&quot;)  In  1998,  I  moved  on  to  animals.  I  read  &quot;Kangaroo,&quot;  &quot;Birdy,&quot;  'The  Sandpiper,&quot;  &quot;The  White  Monkey,&quot;  &quot;The  Doves'  Nest,&quot;  &quot;Travels  with  a  Donkey.&quot;  This  year  I'm  on  cities:  &quot;Goodbye  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  Fields,&quot;  &quot;L.A.  Confi-  dential,&quot;  &quot;Last  Exit  to  Brooklyn,&quot;  &quot;Is  [REDACTED]  Burning?&quot;  &quot;The  Viceroy  ofOuidah.&quot;  Next  year,  it'll  be  abstract  nouns.  (I  have  &quot;Persuasion&quot;  and  &quot;Chaos&quot;  lined  up  ready  to  go  on  January  1st.)  More  and  more,  I  find  Ilike  this  way  of  giving  your  random,  haphazard  progress  through  time  some  sort  of  hidden  organizing  factor,  known  only  to  you,  understood  only  by  you,a  personal  encryption.  It  looks  normal-  somebody  reading  a  book-but  under-  neath,  you  alone  know  the  significance.  Your  life's  private  palimpsest.  S  estina,  villanelle,  sonnet.  My  favorite  poetic  forms  in  order  of  preference.  Again,  it  must  be  because  I  like  a  shape  in  things,  a  rule.  I  recently  read  a  poem  about  tins  washed  upon  a  beach,  and  the  |  next  weekend  I  went  out  to  the  dunes  at  Kennemerduinen  and  collected  a  dozen  or  so  of  these  drift  tins.  (I  now  imagine  a  show  -the  sand-scoured,  sun-bleached,  wave-washed,  storm-tossed  tins  beside  the  pristine,  brightly  colored,  supermar-  ket  version-the  life  of  tins;  their  slow  death  by  water.)  I  like  to  smoke  a  ciga-  rette  when  I  read  a  poem.  I  don't  know  why-I  don't  smoke  a  lot-but  with  po-  etry  I  just  like  to.  obacco  is  a  strange  drug,  when  you  think  about  it.  Alcohol  seems  more  natural-we  all  have  to  drink,  after  all.  But  drawing  smoke  into  your  lungs  is  not  an  instinctive  process  in  any  way.  I  like  the  smell  of  wood  smoke,  but  ifI  see  a  bonfire  I  don't  rush  over  to  it  and  start  inhaling  the  fumes.  My  father  took  up  smoking  in  the  last  month  of  his  life  as  an  act  of  simple  defiance,  he  said,  a  re-  buke  to  his  draining  vitality.  (We  would  smoke  together  all  evening  as  I  read  him  poetry.)  It  was  the  same  character  trait  that  made  him  refuse  to  abandon  his  broiling  electric  fires.  I  think  I  under-  stand  him  better  now,  see  things  more  from  his  point  of  view.  U—turns  define  life's  progress,  it  seems  to  me,  better  than  the  traditional  image  of  forking  paths.  How  often  can  the  significant  events  in  our  life  be  de-  scribed  as  U-turns?  Falling  out  of  love,  for  example.  That's  a  major  emotional  U-turn;  that's  no  bifurcation  on  life's  highway.  This  sojourn  in  [REDACTED]  is  a  U-turn.  I  had  to  get  out  of  [REDACTED]  af-  ter  my  father  died.  Otto  is  a  U-turn,  too.  I  fell  out  of  love,  we  were  going  to  split  up,  and  now  we're  back  together.  Two  |  U-turns,  there.  Now  I'm  turning  away  from  him  again,  toward  Cornelius-it's  |  confusing.  Cornelius  hoards  food,  by  the  way.  I  found  thirty  tins  of  man-  darin  oranges  in  a  cupboard.  He  has  four  kilos  of  butter  in  his  fridge.  A  warn-  ing  sign?  Maybe,  to  use  a  film  image,  my  life  is  a  series  of  jump  cuts.  The  continu-  ity  is  illusory,  imprecise,  we  just  jump-cut  from  one  sequence  to  another.  Very  nou-  velle  vague.  ague  ambitions  are  good,  not  bad.  Life  is  full  of  half-thought-out  plans  for  what  you  might  like  to  do  but  haven't  got  the  real  desire,  or  the  energy,  or  the  time,  or  the  money.  And  these  should  be  encouraged.  I  vaguely  want  to  go  to  [REDACTED].  I  vaguely  want  to  learn  Spanish.  I  vaguely  want  to  read  the  nov-  els  of  Ronald  Firbank.  I  vaguely  want  to  tattoo  myself  somewhere  risqué.  Cor-  nelius  has  a  tattoo  (a  twirly  fleur-de-lis)  on  his  coccyx.  I  cherish  these  vague  am-  bitions  because  they  seem  to  presuppose  another  existence  in  which  they  might  actually  come  about.  The  more  vague  ambitions  you  have,  the  more  lives  you  could  lead.  I  explained  all  this  once  at  great  length  to  a  psychiatrist  (just  after  Georg  and  I  had  divorced)  who  wanted  to  put  me  on  Valium.  He  thought  I  was  unwell.  ‘  N  J  eltverbesserungswahn.  How  I  love  these  German  words.  That's  what  my  psychiatrist  (he  was  German)  said  was  what  I  suffered  from.  It  must  have  been  the  fetid,  daily  traumaof  the  &quot;Exu-  dations&quot;  period,  then  my  hospitalization,  and  then  Georg's  leaving  me  that  made  me  marry  this  man,  this  maniac.  On  the  rebound,  in  a  singularly  disastrous  way.  What  was  I  thinking  of?  I  came  to  my  senses  and  left  him  after  two  weeks  and  have  never  mentioned  his  name  again.  The  single  legacy  of  our  relationship  is  this  diagnosis,  Weltverbesserungswahn:  the  conviction  that  the  world  could  be  better.  My  psychiatrist  husband  said  it  was  a  delusion,  not  a  conviction,  and  that  my  refusal  to  acknowledge  it  as  adelu-  sion  was  proof  that  I  was  deluded.  You  see  why  I  had  to  go.  The  only  thing  that  was  satisfactory  during  my  two  weeks'  marriage  to  this  man  was  the  sex.  X‘anadu  is  the  name  of  the  bar  I  work  in  three  nights  a  week  in  Jordaan.  Cornelius  is  the  manager.  He  has  asmall  apartment  at  the  top  of  the  building,  where  we  make  love  when  Otto  is  away.  He's  just  bought  a  thousand  tins  of  sar-  dines.I  asked  him  if  he  liked  sardines,  and  he  said  no,  but  they  were  at  a  bargain  price,  and  you  couldnever  tell  when  your     T  start  with  the  knight  in  shining  armor,  then  have  the  maiden  rare  and  radiant.&quot;  tastes  might  change.  I  promised  myself  I'd  stop  seeing  him  as  soon  as  my  book  is  ready  (I  think  my  tin  idea  is  abook,  now,  not  a  show)-but  I  think  he's  in  love  with  me,  damn  it.  What's  wrong  with  these  men?  I  met  a  publisher  last  week,  here  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  said  almost  immedi-  ately  that,  all  things  being  equal-what  can  he  mean?  curious  expression-he  could  publish  my  book  next  year.  ears  go  by.  I  see  myself  as  an  old  lady  living  in  an  apartment  block  |  by  the  sea  (not  43616e616461bourne,  not  Ibiza).  I  keep  the  curtains  drawn  day  and  night,  all  year  round.  Qwertyuiop  visits  regu-  larly.  When  he/she  arrives,  he/she  takes  his/her  shoes  and  socks  off  and  I  photo-  graph  his/her  feet.  He's/she's  a  good  boy/girl,  Qwert  (is  he/she  Cornelius's?),  and  he/she  shows  concern.  &quot;What's  the  weather  like?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Open  the  curtains,  Mum,&quot;  he/she  says.  &quot;See  for  yourself.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;it's  more  interesting  if  you  tell  me.&quot;  And  so  he/she  does  his/her  best:  sunny,  scudding  clouds,  threat  of  rain  later  in  the  day.  In  my  dark  apartment,  I  prefer  to  use  my  imagination.  I  like  this  fantasy  of  my  future,  but  what  will  the  reality  be?  Some  old  bag  living  off  ciga-  rettes  and  booze.  oos  consoled  me  after  my  father  died.  And  the  zoo  in  [REDACTED]  is  one  of  the  world's  best,  so  I'm  told.  I  used  to  watch  the  chimps,  but  they  depressed  me.  Too  human:  sitting  around  showing  off  their  hard-ons,  hurling  shit  at  each  other.  And  the  pacing  cats  were  terrify-  ing-to  and  fro,  to  and  fro-all  that  charged,  energetic  resentment  at  their  captivity.  So  I  looked  for  animals  who  seemed  content  with  their  zoo  life,  and  more  and  more  I  found  I  was  watching  the  rhinos.  I  came  to  love  their  massive-  ness,  their  heft,  and  their  effortless  cha-  risma.  In  my  worst  moments  (when  Cor-  nelius  begged  me  to  leave  Otto  and  live  with  him;  when  Otto  asked  me  to  come  on  his  next  trip-to  [REDACTED])  I  longed  to  be  a  rhino  with  my  rhino  armor.  And  so  I  would  calm  myself,  watching  them,  imagining  I  was  a  rhino  in  a  zoo,  my  day  an  ordered  round  of  eating,  defecating  and  sleeping.  In  a  zoo,  but  free  somehow.  Free  from  the  world  and  its  noisy  de-  mands.  Free,  finally,  from  angst.  