  THE  MOST  BASIC  PLAN  e  had  an  appointment  at  a  funeral  home  and  was  itching  to  leave.  His  mother  was  dying,  here  in  her  own  bed,  as  she  had  wished,  with  him  in  at-  tendance.  He'd  been  feeding  her  ice  chips.  It  was  the  only  thing  he  could  do  for  her  anymore.  She  seemed  to  be  sleeping  again,  but  he  forced  himself  to  wait  a  little  longer  before  he  left.  He  eased  himself  onto  the  couch  he'd  been  camped  on  and  resumed  leaf-  ing  through  oneof  her  photo  albums.  It  had  been  his  favorite  when  he  was  a  boy,  because  it  showed  his  mother  when  she  was  a  girl,  ina  sepia  world  of  flap-  per  dresses  and  frilly-legged  bathing  suits  and  Franklin  touring  cars.  Here  she  was  at  her  first  communion,  the  very  image  of  his  own  young  daughter.  The  resemblance  madehim  homesick;  it  was  that  close.  His  mother  stared  heavenward  in  an  unctuously  reverent  pose  surely  dictated  by  the  photogra-  pher,  for  neither  unction  nor  reverence  formed  any  part  of  her  nature.  She'd  al-  ways  treated  his  own  bouts  of  religious  faith  with  plain  puzzlement.  And  here,  a  little  older,  on  the  fan-  tail  of  a  ship,  flanked  by  her  frail,  sweet-faced  mother  and  her  father,  a  short  man  in  a  Navy  uniform,  arms  crossed  over  his  chest.  A  right  prick,  that  one.  A  tireless  pedant,  a  cheap-  skate,  a  bully.  When  her  mother  died  he  made  her  leave  school  and  turned  her  into  a  house  slave.  She  ran  away  at  seventeen,  after  he  fired  his  pistol  at  a  boy  hiding  in  their  back  yard,  waiting  for  her  to  sneak  out.  She  seldom  spoke  of  him,  and  then  with  tight  lips.  At  his  funeral  she  had  worn  an  expression  of  rare,  adamant  coldness,  almost  of  tri-  umph.  Why  had  she  gone  at  all?  Just  to  make  sure?  Ah,  and  this  one,  the  best  one,  his  mother  standing  before  a  long  surf-  board  stuck  in  the  sands  of  Waikiki  [REDACTED],  where  she  had  been  taught  to  ride  the  waves  by  Duke  Kahanamoku  150  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  27,  2000  BY  TOBIAS  WOLFF  himself.  Shewas  lean  and  lovely  and  faced  the  camera  with  a  bravado  that  made  him  stare.  This  was  the  great  friend  of  his  youth,  this  reckless  beauty.  With  him  in  tow,  cheering  her  on,  she  had  pulled  up  stakes  and  willed  their  sullen  car  down  the  roads  of  this  coun-  try  on  any  pretext-[REDACTED]  weather,  a  uranium  strike  in  [REDACTED],  a  mean  boy-  friend  to  shake  off.  To  her  all  motion  was  upward  motion.  He  was  going  to  be  late  for  his  ap-  pointment.  It  was  Friday  afternoon;  if  he  didn't  go  now  he'd  have  to  wait  till  Monday.  The  thought  of  not  getting  out  touched  him  with  a  kind  of  panic.  He  stood  over  his  mother  and  looked  down  at  her  thin  white  hair,  a  mist  above  her  scalp.  Her  shoulders  rose  and  fell  with  the  shallow  rasp  of  her  breath-  ing.  He  whispered  to  her.  Waited,  whis-  pered  again.  Nothing.  On  his  way  out  he  stopped  in  the  staff  room  and  asked  Feliz,  the  young  woman  on  duty,  to  look  in  now  and  then  and  feed  his  mother  some  ice  chips  if  she  woke  up  before  he  returned.  She  agreed,  but  he  felt  her  resentment.  She  was  new  on  the  staff  and  afraid  of  his  mother's  wasted  body,  as  he  was;  he'd  seen  her  timidity  that  morning,  when  the  two  of  them  had  sponged  his  mother  down,  and  he  supposed  she'd  seen  his.  Please,  he  said.  I  won't  be  gone  long.  Yes,  O.K.,  she  said,  but  she  would  not  meet  his  eyes.  od,  it  was  good  busting  out  of  there-firing  up  the  lollipop-red  Miata  he'd  rented  and  gunning  it  out  of  the  parking  lot,  the  sun  on  his  face.  The  travel  agent  who'd  booked  his  flight  to  [REDACTED]  had  got  him  a  bargain  rate  on  a  midsized  Buick  sedan,  but  once  he  stepped  out  of  the  terminal  and  into  the  warm  twilight  he  was  somehow  overcome  by  the  idea  of  a  convertible;  and  when  he  went  back  inside  and  the  beautiful  Cubana  at  the  counter  mentioned  that  she  had  a  Miata  for  hire,  he  took  it  without  hesitation  though  it  was  overpriced  and,  given  the  occasion,  maybe  a  little  festive.  He'd  never  driven  a  sportscar  be-  fore,  and  he  liked  being  close  to  the  road  and  open  to  the  sky.  During  his  hours  in  the  darkened,  lavender-  scented  apartment  he  was  aware  of  the  car  outside  and  the  thought  of  it  pleased  him.  He  hadn't  found  much  to  be  pleased  with,  least  of  all  the  long  hours  of  use-  less  witness  to  his  mother's  dying-not  being  able  to  reach  her,  not  knowing  what  to  do  or  say.  Wanting  her  to  die,  get  it  over  with.  He  felt  he'd  been  cast  in  a  low  part,  like  the  night  he  ran-  sacked  the  apartment  for  her  jewelry.  He  had  done  this  after  a  funeral-home  director  told  him  that  others  with  access-caregivers,  building  staff-  might  help  themselves  if  he  didn't  get  there  first.  It  happens  all  the  time,  the  man  said  sadly.  It  was  a  ghoulish  busi-  ness,  rifling  through  every  drawer  and  shelf  while  his  mother  lay  curled  on  her  bed.  Now  and  then  she  stirred  and  he  froze  like  a  thief,  hand  in  a  coat  pocket,  under  a  pile  of  sweaters,  hold-  ing  his  breath.  It  was  all  there,  every-  thing  he  remembered,  anyway,  and  none  of  it  worth  stealing-his  daugh-  ter  would  usethe  stuff  for  playing  dress-up.  And  he'd  given  himself  yet  another  reason  for  feeling  morally  dwarfed  by  the  underpaid  women  who'd  looked  after  his  mother  and  liked  her  and  now  simply  and  help-  lessly  grieved  for  her.  The  funeral  home  was  a  few  blocks  away.  This  was  the  fourth  one  he'd  ar-  ranged  to  visit.  He  was  after  the  most  basic  plan:  cremation,  placement  of  ashes  in  a  generic  container,  filing  of  death  certificates.  His  mother  wanted  cremation  and  would  certainly  approve  of  his  comparison  shopping.  She  her-  self  had  a  flinty  incapacity  for  the  picties  of  mourning.  Two  weeks  after  her  last  husband's  death  she  was  on  a  cruise  ship  in  the  Aegean.  When  her  Chow  Chow,  Mugsy-dearer  to  her  than  any  husband-got  run  over  by  a  truck,  she  bought  a  life-size  statue  to  mark  his  resting  place  in  her  back  yard,  but  the  statue  was  ofan  Airedale;  she'd  picked  it  up  for  a  song  after  the  guy  who'd  commissioned  it  reneged  on  the  deal.  Grolier  and  Sons  Colonial  Memo-  rial  Chapel  had  a  Spanish-mission  look  that  immediately  put  him  on  alert.  Who  but  the  bereaved  would  pay  for  the  fancy  tiled  roof,  the  faux  bell  tower?  The  prices  he'd  already  collected  ranged  from  eleven  hundred  to  a  ballsy  eigh-  teen  hundred  bucks  for  the  same  ser-  vice.  What  kind  of  nerve  did  Grolier  and  Sons  have?  He  was  met  at  the  door  by  a  tall  woman  in  a  black  suit.  She  had  close-  cut  black  hair  with  a  streak  of  white  across  one  temple,  and  her  lips  were  painted  a  deep  maroon.  She  regarded  him  so  fixedly  as  he  introduced  himself  that  he  stammered  his  own  name  and  lost  hers  altogether.  Come,  she  said,  and  he  followed  her  down  the  hallway  ina  trail  of  perfume  spiced  faintly  with  sweat.  The  building  was  cool  and  silent.  Hushed.  The  woman  told  him  that  everyone  else  was  out  on  duty.  They  hadhad  two  burials  that  afternoon,  and  she'd  left  one  of  them  early  to  meet  withhim.  If  she  seemed  ...  how  does  one  ...  out  of  sorts,  yes,  out  of  sorts,  it  was  because  she'd  been  caught  in  traffic  and  reached  the  home  only  a  few  min-  utes  earlier,  late  for  their  appointment.  She  thought  she  had  missed  him.  Most  ,  unprofessional!  But  it  seemed  he  had  E  been  late,  too,  no?  So  they  were  even.  $  Even  Stephen.  The  woman  showed  him  to  a  small  §  office  and  listened  while  he  described  3  his  mother's  situation  and  what  he  €  had  in  mind.  She  kept  her  dark  eyes  S  straight  on  him  as  he  spoke.  He  was  S  again  made  awkward  by  the  directness  3  of  her  gaze.  This  is  the  hardest  part,  she  said.  My  old  papa  died  last  year,  and  I  know  ¥  this  is  no  picnic.  You  were  close  to  your  2  mother,  yes?  We  were  close.  OWITZ  &quot;PROLOGU  6  -  GU;  I  can  tell,  she  said.  He  asked  her  what  Grolier  and  Sons  would  charge  for  what  he  wanted.  So,  she  said.  Down  to  business.  With  a  few  practiced  tugs  she  pulled  off  the  black  gloves  she'd  been  wearing.  She  shrugged  off  her  jacket  and  took  aprinted  sheet  from  the  tray  on  her  desk  and  began  to  mark  various  lines  with  a  highlighter.  Her  fingers  were  plump  and  bare  of  rings.  Of  course-  the  gloves.  Her  blouse  was  sleeveless,  and  he  was  struck  by  the  whiteness  of  her  arms.  Elfie-that  was  her  name.  Just  like  that,  it  came  back  from  wher-  ever  it  had  gone.  Elfie.  It  didn't  fit.     There  was  nothing  elfin  about  her,  nothing  light  or  elusive.  In  this  lit-  tle  room  he  could  smell  her  plainly  through  her  perfume,  more  salt  than  sour.  Her  breasts  swelled  the  fabric  of  her  blouse,  her  arms  were  heavy  and  rounded,  not  fat  but  full  with  the  full-  ness  of  forty-five,  fifty  years.  She  had  a  large,  almost  coarse  mouth.  She  pursed  her  lips  as  she  toted  up  her  figures,  then  pushed  the  paper  across  the  desk  and  sat  back.  You  can  do  better,  she  said.  I  can  recommend  other  homes  better  for  you.  His  eyes  went  straight  to  the  bot-  tom  of  the  page.  Twenty-three  hundred.  He  did  not  let  himself  blink.  I'll  No.  Too  late  for  that.  Come.     think  about  it,  he  said.  Grolier  and  Sons  Colonial  Me-  morial  Chapel  is  a  full-service  home.  Everything  top-drawer.  You  want  Grandpa  buried  in  a  Viking  long-  boat,  you  come  to  Grolier  and  Sons  Colonial  Memorial  Chapel.  Don't  laugh.  I  could  tell  you  stories.  Now-  shame  on  me!  You  will  forgive  me  for  leaving  you  high  and  dry  all  this  time.  Orange  juice?  Evian?  He  was  about  to  refuse,  but  the  juice  sounded  good,  and  he  said  so.  Or  beer?  I  have  beer.  He  hesitated.  Good,  she  said.  I  shall  join  you.  She  rolled  her  chair  to  a  small  refrigerator  in  the  corner.  Water,  she  said,  rum-  maging.  Water,  water,water.  Water  will  be  fine.     She  led  him  farther  down  the  hall  to  a  large  office  panelled  in  dark  wood  and  furnished  like  a  gentleman's  club.  Ori-  ental  rugs.  Red  leather  sofa  and  chairs,  bookshelves  filled  with  leather-bound  books.  Elfie  waved  him  to  a  chair.  She  took  a  bottle  and  two  tall  glasses  from  a  refrigerator  built  into  the  wainscoting.  She  poured  the  beer  with  some  care,  gave  a  glass  to  him,  and  settled  herself  behind  a  massive  desk  covered  with  photographs  in  silver  frames.  Salut,  she  said.  Salut.  She  took  a  long  drink  and  ran  her  tongue  over  her  lips.  Then  she  bent  forward  abruptly  and  turned  one  of  the  photographs  face  down  on  the  desktop.  This  is  good,  he  said.    Czech  Pilsner.  The  best.  I  Are  you  Czech?  Would  you  think  me  Japanese  had  I  given  you  Asahi?  No.  I  am  from  Wien.  Have  you  been?  ‘  Twice.  Beautiful  city.  He  was  pleased  at  knowing  that  Wien  was  [REDACTED].  I  suppose  you  went  for  the  opera.  |  He  was  tempted  to  lie;  decided  against  it.  No,  he  said.  I  don't  like  |  opera.  Nor  do  I.  I  find  it  preposterous.  She  reached  out  and  turned  another  photo-  graph  over.  So,  he  said,  how  did  you  end  up  here?  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]?  Or  Grolier  and  Sons  Colonial  Memorial  Chapel?  Either.  Both.  That's  a  long  story.  Ah-the  old  Foreign  Legion  dodge.  She  cocked  her  head  and  waited.  When  you  ask  a  Legionnaire  about  himself,  he  always  says,  That's  a  long  story.  They  tend  to  have  histories  that  don't  bear  scrutiny.  As  do  we  all.  As  do  we  all,  he  said,  not  unhappy  to  be  thought  the  owner  of  such  a  history.  Were  you  a  Legionnaire?  Me?  No.  But  you  were  a  soldier.  I  can  tell.  A  long  time  ago.  Oh,  a  long  time  ago!  You  are  so  old.  Thirty  years  ago.  ‘  It  leaves  a  mark,  she  said.  I  can  al-  ways  tell.  ‘  Really?  Always.  ‘  They  talked  on  in  this  way,  and  all  the  while  it  seemed  to  him  that  they  were  having  another  conversation.  In  this  parallel  conversation  he  was  say-  ing,  I  do  like  the  way  you  talk,  and  she  was  saying,  I  know  you  do,  and  what  else  do  you  hike?  He  was  saying,  I  like  your  mouth  and  how  you  look  at  me  over  the  glass  when  you  drink  your  beer,  and  she  was  saying,  I  have  my  momentary  weak-  nesses,  and  I  think  you  may  be  one  of  them,  and  so?  He'd  sensed  this  kind  of  commu-  nion  before.  Now  and  then,  when  he  was  younger,  it  proved  to  be  not  en-  tirely  one-sided.  He  sensed  it  less  often  these  days,  and  when  he  did  he  tended     to  discount  it  as  wishful  thinking.  Soon  enough,  he  would  ridicule  himself  for  imagining  that  he'd  been  an  object  of  desireto  this  woman,  who  after  all  was  simply  winding  down  after  a  long  hot  day  and  enjoying-playfully,  to  be  sure-an  interest  he  couldn't  conceal.  That's  how  he'd  see  it  later  on,  leav-  ing  some  room  to  wonder,  naturally.  But  in  the  instant  he  had  no  doubt  that  he  was  indeed  her  momentary  weakness,  that  if  he  stood  and  took  hisglasses  off  she  would  smile  up  at  him,  Yes,  and  so?  He  hadno  doubt  that  if  he  came  around  that  desk  she  would  stand  and  meet  him  with  that  loose-looking  mouth  of  hers,  and  sink  with  him  to  the  floor,  onto  that  nice  Bokhara,  her  hand  at  his  belt,  her  breath  in  his  ear,  Ab,  my  Legionnaire!  And  why  not!  They  wereboth  real-  ists,  they  hated  opera,  they  knew  what  was  waiting  for  them  in  another  twenty,  thirty  years,  if  not  tomorrow.  Why  shouldn't  they  kick  off  their  clothes  and  come  at  each  other  and  make  love-no,  not  make  love:  fuck!-  fuck  like  champions  in  the  sight  of  heavenand  earth,  just  because  they  wanted  to,  without  a  thought  in  their  heads  but  yesyes  yes!  All  he  had  to  do  was  take  off  his  glasses  and  stand  up.  Why  didn't  he,  then?  All  sorts  of  reasons,  no  doubt:  a  long  habit  of  fi-  delity,  if  not  the  actual  virtue;  theab-  solute  trust  of  his  daughter;  perhaps  even  a  childish  sense  of  being  watched  by  the  God  he  lazily  believed  in.  Any  of  these  might  have  been  at  work  below  the  horizon  of  his  awareness.  What  he  was  aware  of,  all  at  once,  was  the  irritation  of  finding  himself  in  a  play  he  disliked;  Freud's  play.  Freud!  Why  did  he  have  to  go  and  think  of  Freud?  He  could  just  see  the  Viennese  smarty-pants  stroking  his  beard  in  smug  recognition  of  the  part  he  was  playing,  abandoning  himself  to  Eros  to  obliterate  his  fear  of  death.  The  Great  Explainer  would  have  a  field  day  with  his  mortuary  lust,  his  sudden  exquisite  pleasure  in  food  and  drink,  thehabit  he'd  formed  of  fleeing  his  mother's  apartment  late  at  night  to  cruise  down  Collins  Avenue  ina  red  sports  car,  watching  the  girls  in  their  i  slinky  dresses  and  towering  heels    shimmy  and  sway  as  they  moved  from  club  to  club.  He  had,  that  is  to  say,  a  picture  of  himself  playing  out  the  most  exhausted  and  demeaning  of  clichés.  It  offended  him.  It  chilled  him.  He  finished  his  beer,  thanked  the  woman  for  her  time,  and  shook  her  soft  hand  at  the  office  door.  He  insisted  on  seeing  himself  out;  that  way  he  wouldn't  have  her  at  his  back,  watching  him  cross  the  empty  parking  lot  toward  the  Miata.  As  he  approached  his  mother's  apartment  he  heard  raised  voices  speaking  Spanish.  Her  door  was  open.  No,  he  thought,  no,  not  while  I  was  gone.  But  he  found  her  still  alive;  she  didn't  die  until  later  that  night,  while  he  was  down  the  street  eating  a  plate  of  fried  plantains.  At  this  moment  she  was  thrashing  weakly  back  and  forth  be-  tween  Feliz,  who  looked  coldly  at  him,  and  an  older  woman  named  Rosa.  His  mother  was  shouting,  the  same  word:  Daddy!  Daddy!  Her  eyes  were  open  but  unseeing.  Rosa  crooned  to  her  in  for-  eign  singsong  while  Feliz  tried  to  hold  her  hands.  Daddy!  He's  here,  Rosa  said.  Your  daddy's  here.  Daddy!  Rosa  raised  her  eyesto  him,  pleading.  I'm  here,  he  said,  and  she  fell  back  and  looked  up  at  him.  He  took  Feliz's  place  beside  her  on  the  bed.  I'm  here,  he  said,  and  stroked  her  hand.  It  was  down  to  bone.  Daddy?  It's  all  right.  I'm  here.  Where  were  you?  At  work.  The  room  was  dim.  The  two  women  moved  like  shadows  behind  him.  He  heard  the  door  clickshut.  I  was  alone.  I  know.  It's  all  right  now.  You're  here.  I'm  here.  Her  fingers  tightened  on  his.  He  no  longer  knew  how  to  be  a  son,  but  he  still  knew  how  to  be  a  father.  He  held  her  hand  in  both  of  his.  Every-  thing's  fine,  sweetheart.  Everything's  going  to  be  fine.  You're  my  own  darling,  my  sweet  pea,  my  good  girl.  Daddy,  she  whispered,  and  closed  her  eyes.  