   In  the  sun-blasted  park,  at  the  water's  edge,  a  titan  willow  shades  a  circle  of  grass  and  lake.  Beneath  it  the  children  can  be  seen,  wearing  red  T-shirts,  white  sneakers,  and  tan  shorts.  There  are  about  twenty-five  of  them,  from  four  years  old  to  fourteen.  A  few  brave  the  heat  with  a  soccer  ball;  most  are  en-  gaged  in  a  game  that  seems  to  involve  keeping  a  bunch  of  beanbags  in  the  air.  The  grass  is  dead:  it's  late  June,  and  there  hasn't  been  a  day  of  rain  inthree  weeks.  Edward  and  Alison  are  watching  from  their  car.  Edward  is  thinking  that,  from  here,  they  all  look  pretty  good.  Scrubbed  and  uniformed,  the  children  glance  from  time  to  time  at  the  organizers  grilling  meat  nearby,  setting  out  foil-covered  plates  on  afolding  buffet  table.  The  sight  gives  Edward  a  magnanimous,  fatherly  feeling.  He  thinks  he'd  better  keep  this  feeling  in  check:  You  don't  go  hungry  to  the  grocer's,  he  likes  to  say.  Alison  is  thinking,  I  don't  want  a  white  one.  I  don't  want  to  be  one  of  those  people  who  has  to  have  the  right  kind.  Give  me  a  black  one  ora  Chinese  one  or  something:  they're  all  kids;  they've  all  got  good  hearts;  it  doesn'tmatter.  Neither  gets  out  of  the  car.  Edward  says,  &quot;Couldn't  have  picked  a  nicer  day.&quot;  Alison  sighs.  'The  grass,&quot;  she  says.  Then  they  notice  theother  couples.  How  could  they  have  missed  them?  They're  so  conspicuous,  each  standing  alone,  far,  far  from  the  other  couples,  all  of  them  perfectly  still,  watching.  They're  clean,  neat,  studiously  casual:  belted  shorts  and  golf  shirts  for  the  men,  sundresses  and  summer  hats  for  the  women;  exactly  the  way  Edward  and  Alison  are  dressed.  The  children  don't  seem  to  notice.  Some  have  been  passed  over  a  hun-  dred  times.  Some  have  no  hope  at  all,  Alison  is  thinking,  but  they've  come  anyway,  just  in  case.  They're  playing,  just  like  normal  children.  They  are  74  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  4,  2000  FICTION  NO  LIFE  BY  J.  ROBERT  LENNON  normal  children,  she  reminds  herself.  &quot;There,&quot;  Edward  says,  pointing.  A  couple  is  making  its  move,  heading  for  aspot  beneath  the  willow  where  three  children  are  playing  a  board  game  on  the  grass.  As  they  approach,  the  man  and  woman  bend  over,  readying  them-  selves  to  speak.  One  child,  a  black-  haired,  dark-skinned  boy,  looks  up.  The  couple  is  intercepted  byan  organizer.  &quot;Whoops,&quot;  says  Edward.  The  organizers  are  wearing  white  T-shirts  with  an  insignia  on  the  breast.  This  organizer,  a  plump,  youngish  woman,  hasher  hand  stuck  straight  out  to  be  shaken.  The  man  and  woman  right  themselves  to  clasp  it.  They  are  led  to  abuffet  table  and  given  name  tags.  The  black-haired  boy  watches  until  he's  handed  the  dice.  Then  he  turns  back  to  his  game.  The  woman,  narrow-faced,  wan,  thin-haired,  con-  tinues  to  stare  at  the  boy  until  her  hus-  band  pulls  her  away.  &quot;Ican't  do  this,&quot;  says  Alison.  &quot;It's  a  walk  in  the  park,&quot;  Edward  tells  her,  then  realizes  the  unintended  joke  and  says,  very  loudly,  &quot;Ha!&quot;  He  gets  out  of  the  car;  she  follows.  he  head  organizer  is  named  Greta.  Edward  misses  the  name  when  she  introduces  herself,  and  he  ends  up  hav-  ing  to  lean  close  to  read  her  name  tag.  But  not  too  close;  he  doesn't  want  her  to  think  he's  checking  out  her  chest.  Con-  sequently,  he  reads  it  as  &quot;Great.&quot;  Can  that  be  right?  She  is  tall  and  unbalanced,  like  a  stack  of  colorful  wooden  blocks.  &quot;I  am  simply  thrilled  to  see  you  all  here  today,&quot;  says  Great.  She  has  herded  the  couples  onto  a  patch  of  grass  that  is  burdened  by  direct  sun,  where  they  have  been  asked  to  sit.  Behind  them,  the  chil-  dren  play,  stealing  glances.  &quot;A  few  guide-  lines.  One,  we  have  brought  no  forms  to  fill  out,  nothing  likethat.  Today  is  just  for  kicks.  If  you  hit  it  off  with  a  partic-  ular  child,  let  us  know,  and  we  can  ar-  range  a  meeting.  Two,  don't  talk  about  why  you're  here,  please.  The  children  al-  ready  know,  and  they  are  a  little  nervous!  So  talk  about  something  else-doggies,  sports,  airplanes,  church.&quot;  Edward  thinks  about  how  he  might  incorporate  all  these  subjects  in  a  sin-  gle  sentence.  Alison  thinks  that  the  other  couples  look  better  qualified,  wealthier,  tougher  than  she  and  Edward  are.  They  proba-  bly  have  connections:  shealways  be-  lieves  all  other  people  know  one  an-  other.  What  if  our  child  turns  out  to  be  religious?  she  wonders.  A  Baha'i?  A  Jain?  There  would  be  time  to  get  books  out  of  the  library.  &quot;And  third,  and  this  is  most  impor-  tant,  please:  Do  not,  underany  circum-  stances,  ask  a  child  if  he  or  she  wants  to  come  home  with  you,  O.K.?  O.K.!  Ter-  rific'&quot;  Great  claps  her  hands.  The  cou-  ples  stand  up.  Edward  heads  straight  for  the  tallest  child,  an  ugly,  white-skinned  boy  with  stretched  features:  a  long  nose;  narrow,  slanted,  almost  Asian  eyes;  a  pointed  chin.  He  is  sitting  in  the  shade,  watch-  ingthe  other  kids.  Edward  sits  beside  him.  «You  don't  want  me,  man,&quot;  the  kid  says.  &quot;Thanks  for  the  tip,&quot;  Edward  tells  him,  and  thekid  looks  surprised.  &quot;Why,  what's  wrong  with  you?&quot;  &quot;My  folks  were  no  good.  Also  peo-  ple  tried  me  out  before,  and  it  didn't  work.&quot;  &quot;You  were  bad?&quot;  The  kid  laughs.  &quot;Uh-huh.&quot;  &quot;What'd  you  do?&quot;  &quot;Smoked  weed.&quot;  &quot;Mmm,&quot;  says  Edward.  &quot;I  never  did  it  before.  Their  freakin'  real  son  gave  it  to  me,  except  they  didn't  believe  me  when  I  told  them.&quot;  Edward  reads  the  kid's  name  tag  in  an  ironic,  obvious  way.  Nate.  &quot;Oh,  I  be-  lieve  that.  Kids  will  do  anything,  Nate.&quot;  Nate  stares  at  Edward  for  a  moment.  He  says,  &quot;What's  your  name?&quot;  &quot;Ed.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  let  kids  call  you  Ed,  or  do  they  have  to  call  you  Mister  Something?&quot;  &quot;It's  just  Ed,&quot;  Edward  says.  &quot;Like  Cher.&quot;  Edward  thinks  maybe  he's  gone  too  far.  Nate  is  squinting  at  him  as  if  he  were  mad.  &quot;Like  who?&quot;  Nate  says.  lison  watches  Edward  take  off  alone  and  feels  sick  to  her  stom-  ach.  They're  in  this  together,  she  thinks.  But  she  imagines  what  Edward  would  tell  her  if  she  said  so:  &quot;We  can  cover  5  more  ground  split  up,&quot;he'd  say,  as  if  it  z  were  a  scavenger  hunt.  And  then  she  3  hears  him  say  &quot;It  is  a  scavenger  hunt,  Al.&quot;  He  calls  her  AlL  Most  of  her  boyfriends  had  called  her  Allie,  and  the  worst  of  them,  a  long-lashed  pec-  pumper  named  Lou,  called  her  4/-  son,  as  if  this  formalized  respect  would  fool  her.  Edward  calls  her  Al  and  she  calls  him  Edward.  That  happened  on  the  first  date.  Al  and  Edward:  it  went  through  her  head  all  night  long.  Then  they  got  married,  and  tried  to  have  a  kid  for  nine  years.  She  didn't  want  the  drugs;  she  was  afraid  of  octuplets,  and  then  what?  Aborting  some,  but  not  others:  that  wasn't  for  her,  it  seemed  so  arbitrary.  What  if  they  killed  the  wrong  ones?  So  adoption  is  it.  It's  the  right  thing  to  do.  They  read  about  the  picnic  in  the  paper.  A  child  comes  to  her,  a  tiny  white  boy.  &quot;Fow  me  dis!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Fow  it  to  me!&quot;  He  thrusts  aFrisbee  at  her.  She  draws  back,  horrified,  and  it  tum-  bles  to  the  ground.  The  child  picks  it  up  and  hands  it  to  her  again.  &quot;Oh!  I  don't  know.  ..  .&quot;  It's  a  test,  she  thinks.  It's  a  test  and  I'm  flunking!  The  child  runs  away  to  a  small  group  of  older  boys.  They  are  grinning  with  apparent  mischief.  &quot;All  right!&quot;  she  calls  out.  &quot;Get  ready!  Here  it  comes!&quot;  She  throws  the  Frisbee,  and  it  wal-  lows  in  the  air  and  falls  ten  feet  short.  &quot;No!&quot;  the  child  says.  &quot;Wike  dis!  Wike  dis!&quot;  He  grabs  the  Frisbee  and  flings  it  away,  over  the  heads  of  theother  chil-  dren,  and  they  chase  it  and  are  gone.  She  wanders,  watching  Edward  out  of  the  corner  of  her  eye.  He  is  talking  to  exactly  the  wrong  kid.  She's  done  research.  Adolescents  and  teens  may  al-  ready  have  developed  beyond  your  abil-  ity  to  control  them.  Sometimes  she  suspects  that  Edward  doesn't  want  a  child  at  all,  and  that  this  secret  truth  has  ren-  dered  them  infertile.  She's  not  sure  of  the  mechanics  of  the  thing,  but  it  is  as  easy  to  believe  as  what  the  doctorhas  told  them.  At  first,  their  desire  for  children  was  as  passionate  and  straightforward  as  a  Labrador  retriever,  and  as  thoughtless.  They  liked  each  other  and  wanted  to  replicate  themselves.  They  screwed  with  delightful  abandon.  Once  it  was  clear  that  things  weren't  working,  though,  sex  became  perfunctory.  It  started  to  seem  absurd  and  implausible,  like  Twister.  They  still  have  it,  of  course.  Sex.  They  call  it  &quot;it.&quot;  &quot;We  should  do  it.&quot;  Neither  ever  refuses,  no  matter  how  unappealing  the  prospect,  because  then  there  would  be  somebody  to  blame  for  their  never  doing  it  anymore.  They  are  most  successful  at  it  when  he  wears  a  condom.  Alison  has  been  thinking  these  thoughts  for  a  while  before  she  realizes  how  she  must  look:  slumped,  agape,  alone,  and  she  looks  up,  startled,  at  thescene  around  her.  Predatory  adults  kneeling,  touching,  telling  jokes.  Then  she  sees  her  child.  He  looks  like  her.  He  has  her  long  fingers  (curled  around  a  plastic  bat),  her  high  forehead  (sweating,  like  hers!),  her  coarse,  raccoon-colored  hair  (though  on  him-tousled,  gently  curled-it  looks  charming).  He  is  so  obviously  the  one  that  it  takes  her  several  seconds  to  real-  ize  that  he  is  already  talking  to  some  adults,  older  adults.  Mature  adults.  The  man  wears  boots  and  a  bolo  tie;  narrow  and  bent,  he  looks  like  a  hick.  A  rich  hick.  The  woman  is  freckled  and  tan.  It's  over;  the  child  has  been  claimed.  Still,  her  legs  take  her  toward  the  three  of  them.  &quot;J  don't  want  parents,&quot;  Nate  tells  Ed-  ward.  &quot;I've  done  fine  without  them.  Pretty  soon  I'll  get  out  of  high  school,  and  I'll  take  the  money  they  give  me  at  the  home  and  buy  a  bus  ticket.&quot;  &quot;Where  to?&quot;  Edward  says.  &quot;Vegas.&quot;  &quot;What's  there?&quot;  &quot;Everything,  man.  Girls.  Money.  I  want  to  deal  poker.  You  ever  seen  those  guys?  They're  smooth.&quot;  “I  agree&quot;,  Nate  looks  off  across  the  park,  76  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  4,  2000  squinting  at  the  bright  hills  and  water.  It  would  be  a  piece  of  cake  to  live  with  this  kid,  Edward  thinks.  He'd  be  like  a  roommate.  Because  Edward  doesn't  want  a  baby  anymore,  really,  the  same  way  he  doesn't  want  a  sport-utility  vehi-  cle  or  a  handheld  computer.  All  the  years  of  fertility  brochures  and  preg-  nancy  books,  all  the  babies  who  pitch  for  mutual  funds  and  radial  tires  and  insur-  ance  policies  and,  of  course,  diapers  and  powders  and  creams:  all  of  it  has  driven  Edward  to  conclude  that  babies  are  a  brand  name;  they  are  a  product.  They  are  conventional.  They  are  what  other  people  want  you  to  have.  To  hell  with  them,  with  their  big  round  heads  and  skinny  asses  and  button  noses.  He'll  take  this:  this  guy.  All  he  has  to  do  is  find  Al  and  intro-  duce  her  to  the  kid.  He  scans  the  crowd.  There  she  is,  standing  in  the  sunlight  with  a  skinny  sort  of  ersatz  Texan  and  his  wife.  Edward  stands  up.  &quot;Sit  tight,  Nate,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Whatever.&quot;  But  as  he  draws  closer  to  Alison  and  the  Texans,  he  realizes  it  isn't  going  to  work  this  way.  In  fact,  it  isn't  going  to  work  at  all.  That's  because  a  child  is  there,  among  the  three  of  them,  a  child  of  about  five  with  the  long,  asking-for-it  face  of  a  chronic  sinus  suf-  ferer.  The  child  is  holding  a  busted  Whifflie-ball  bat,  whitened  and  creased  in  the  middle,  where  it's  been  pounded  against  a  tree.  When  Alison  turns,  her  eyes  are  chaotically  glittering,  as  if  full  of  broken  glass.  She's  in  love.  Damn  it,  things  ought  to  be  simple.  Edward  can  sense  Nate  fading  away  be-  hind  him,  like  a  Coke  can  tossed  out  a  car  window.  &quot;Hi!&quot;  he  says  to  the  four  of  them,  and  presses  his  palm  against  Alison's  humid  back.  Nobody  says  anything  except  the  doomed  child,  who  says,  &quot;Hello.&quot;  Edward  thinks  he  should  probably  introduce  himself  to  the  adults,  but  he  has  a  feeling  he's  not  going  to  like  them.  He  bends  over  and  says,  &quot;Who's  in  charge  here?  You,  sir?&quot;  The  child  says,  &quot;No,  Mrs.  Scott  is,&quot;  and  points  across  the  park  to  the  tall  woman,  the  one  who  looked  as  though  she  might  fall  over.  Great.  Great  Scott!  Perfect!  The  boy  is  cowering,  so  Ed-  ward  stifles  his  laugh.  The  child's  name  is  Raymond.  It's  markered  on  his  tag  in  that  new  kind  of  printing  they  teach  now,with  little  curlicues  after  all  the  let-  ters,  so  that  the  children  will  find  it  eas-  ier  to  connect  them  someday,  when  cur-  sive  is  taught.  Edward  feels  a  willful  hand  on  his  shoulder.  He  allows  it  to  pull  him  up  into  astanding  position.  &quot;Harlan  Breece,&quot;  says  the  Texan.  &quot;Linda  Breece.&quot;  Edward  shakes  the  man's  hand  and  gives  Linda  a  little  bow.  Then  Harlan  Breece  shakes  Ali-  son's  hand,  too.  Alison  smiles.  Every-  one  smiles.  Harlan  is  sizing  them  up,  and  after  a  moment  he  turns  back  to  the  boy,  his  face  confident  and  calm.  Edward  sees  that  Harlan  has  deemed  them  not  worth  worrying  over.  His  wife,  seeing  this,  too,  relaxes,  and  a  blush  blooms  briefly.  Edward  understands  that  a  competition  has  begun.  He  turns  to  Alison.  &quot;You  ought  to  get  into  the  shade,&quot;  he  says,  for  she  is  deep  red  and  illuminated  by  sweat.  &quot;I'm  fine,&quot;  she  tells  him  brightly.  &quot;Raymond  likes  baseball.  His  favorite  player  is  ...  Who  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Sammy  Sosa,&quot;  says  Raymond.  &quot;Son,&quot;  says  Harlan  Breece,  &quot;you  ever  been  to  a  real  baseball  game?&quot;  &quot;No,  sir.&quot;  &quot;Well,  somebody  ought  to  do  some-  thing  about  that.&quot;  &quot;JT  want  him,&quot;  Alison  says.  They  are  in  the  car  with  the  windows  shut  tight,  the  A.C.  pumping  hot  air  into  their  faces.  The  children  are  climb,  ing  into  a  bus  while  someone  with  a  clipboard  checks  off  their  names.  The  event  is  over.  The  two  couples  talked  to  the  boy  Raymond  for  a  good  twenty  minutes,  not  moving  an  inch,  despite  the  blazing  sun.  The  Breeces  revealed  that  they  lived  on  the  lake,  that  Har-  lan  was  a  judge,  that  they  really  were  from  [REDACTED].  They'd  had  a  child  once  before,  a  foster  child,  as  Linda  had  suf-  fered  a  &quot;female  problem&quot;  that  prevented  her  from  getting  pregnant.  The  boyhad  gone  back  home  after  a  year.  The  im-  plication  was  that  the  separation  had  crushed  Linda,  and,  indeed,  Linda  looked  the  part,  with  her  moist  eyes  and  weak  chin,  and  the  heavy  upper  arms  Alison  tends  to  associate  with  deep  sad-  ness.  The  Breeces  had  sold  their  ranch  to  a  developer  and  moved  here,  of  all  places,  to  the  Finger  Lakes.  All  of  this  was  spoken  in  code,  of  course,  with  occasional  frank  asides  to  Edward  and  Alison,  whenever  a  nugget  of  information  seemed  as  though  it  might  break  their  spirit.  Judge.  Money.  Experience  with  foster  children.  The  teen-ager  is  getting  on  the  bus  now,  the  one  Edward  had  been  talking  to.  Alison  says,  &quot;You  could  have  been  more  helpful.  Why  were  you  talking  to  that  young  man?&quot;  Edward's  gaze  follows  the  teen  until  he  disappears.  &quot;Nate.  I  don't  know.  No-  body  else  was  going  to  talk  to  him.&quot;  Though  she  knows  it  annoys  him,  she  can't  help  sighing.  Edward  roots  for  the  underdog.  He  buys  cheap  shirts  from  sale  racks  and  votes  for  local  crack  pots  every  November.  It's  one  of  the  things  that,  when  she  loves  him,  she  re-  ally  loves,  and,  when  she  is  angry  at  him,  she  finds  intolerable.  He  is  intolerable  now,  but  already  her  intolerance  is  on  the  wane.  She  can't  seem  to  get  worked  up  about  anything  these  days.  It's  a  fea-  ture  of  their  marriage:  as  sexual  passion  has  faded,  so  has  pride,  so  has  resent-  ment.  Sometimes  she  feels  she  may  van-  ish  completely.  She  isn't  a  crier-she  prides  herself  on  this-but  she  begins  to  ery.  Edward  pats  her  leg.  The  air  is  cooling  down.  In  fact,  itis  suddenly  ice  cold.  A  chill  runs  through  her.  Edward  shuts  off  the  air.  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  a  word,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Oh,  God,  not  right  now.&quot;  &quot;No,  let's  do  it.  You  know  you  want  to.&quot;  &quot;I  don't!&quot;  But  she  can't  resist  the  game.  They've  played  it  on  every  road  trip  they've  ever  taken.  They've  played  it  naked.  They've  played  it  in  elevators  and  on  the  Great  Wall  of  4368696e61.  She  wipes  her  face,  hangs  her  head,  whis-  pers,  &quot;Fallopian.&quot;  «&amp;  After.”  &quot;Infertility.&quot;  He  snorts.  &quot;Before.&quot;  &quot;Uh,  gum?&quot;  &quot;Close,  in  away.  After.&quot;  &quot;Itchy,&quot;  she  says,  scratching  her  legs.  &quot;Itchy  comes  after  infertility.&quot;  &quot;Edward,  I  just  don't  feel  like  doing  this  right  now.&quot;  &quot;It's  between  infertility  and  gum,&quot;  he  says  quietly.  &quot;Something  delicious.&quot;  &quot;Hot  dogs.  Hominy?&quot;  &quot;Perfect  for  a  day  like  this.  A  sweet,  refreshing  treat.&quot;  She  turns  to  him.  He  is  holding  an  invisible  ice-cream  cone  and  licking  it  lasciviously,  his  eyebrows  rising  and  falling,  his  eyes  rolling  back  in  his  head  with  simulated  pleasure.  He  has  not  yet  noticed  the  approach  of  Harlan  Breece,  who  is  walking  bent  over  with  his  hands  on  his  khakied  knees,  squinting  in  Ed-  ward's  window.  Edward  sees  the  shadow  of  the  mas-  sive  hat  falling  across  the  dash  before  he  hears  the  tap  on  the  window,  not  a  tap  actually  but  a  small  thud,  as  Breece  is  using  his  fingertip,  not  his  fingernail.  In  fact,  Edward  notes  as  he  rolls  the  win-  dow  down,  Breece  has  barely  got  any  fingernails  at  all.  They  are  as  irregular  and  receding  as  his  hairline.  He  counts  this  as  a  victory  and  is  able  to  meet  the  Texan  with  a  broad  and  truly  genuine  smile.  A  ten-gallon  smile,  he  thinks,  that's  how  we  do  it  in  upstate  New  York!  He  realizes  he  is  still  holding  the  invisible  ice-cream  cone  and  releases  it.  Invisible  ice  cream  splatters  his  thighs.  &quot;Harlan,  hello!&quot;  &quot;Hi  there,  Alison  dear,&quot;  Breece  drawls,  glancing  past  Edward,  &quot;and  I'm  ashamed  to  admit  I've  forgotten  your  name.&quot;  Breece  grimaces  calmly  at  him.  “Ed-77  &quot;You'll  accept  my  apologies  then,  Ed,  and  hear  me  out.  I'm  pleased  to  tell  you  that  Linda  finds  you  both  mighty  charming,  and  she's  asked  me  to  extend  an  invitation  to  dinner  up  at  our  little  lakeside  cottage.  We  still  got  a  little  water  left  in  the  lake,  in  spite  of  this  heat  of  yours.&quot;  We  got  a  little  water!  Heat  of  yours?  Edward  loves  it,  an  honest-to-God  member  of  the  privileged  class,  whose  wife  finds  him  and  his  wife  mighty  charming.  Without  turning  to  Alison,  Edward  says,  &quot;Well,  we're  real  sorry  about  our  heat,  but  we'd  love  to  come  take  a  gander  at  your  water.&quot;  &quot;Splendid,&quot;  says  Harlan  Breece,  and  angles  his  brush-covered  panhandle  of  an  arm  in  through  the  window.  Edward  shakes  the  hand  at  the  end  of  it.  &quot;When's  good  for  you?&quot;  &quot;Just  about  any  time,&quot;  Edward  says  as  the  first  bad  vibes  reach  him  from  Ali-  son's  side  of  the  car.  &quot;It  isn't  like  we  need  to  get  a  sitter.&quot;  &quot;Tomorrow?  Eight?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,  sure.&quot;  The  panhandle  withdraws  and  re-  turns,  this  time  bearing  a  white  slip  of  paper  with  a  map  printed  on  it.  It  dawns  on  Edward  that  Breece  just  hap-  pened  to  have  this  map  on  him,  and  probably  has  several  more.  You  never  know  when  you're  going  to  need  to  in-  vite  somebody  up  to  the  shack  for  some  pigs'  feet  and  moonshine.  He  accepts  the  map  and  gives  it  a  game  squint,  then  nods  at  Harlan  as  he  rolls  the  window  back  up,  his  own  pumping  arm  looking  very  working  class,  vulgarly  utilitarian,  like  an  oil  derrick.  When  the  window  is  shut  tight,  he  turns  to  Alison.  &quot;That  ought  to  be  fun.&quot;  &quot;You  will  be  alone,&quot;  she  says.  But  he  isn't  alone  when,  the  follow-  ing  night,  they  get  into  the  car  and  point  themselves  north  along  the  scenic  Lake  Ridge  Highway.  She  meant  it  when  she  said  it  but,  really,  she  would  never  abandon  him.  Of  course  the  Breeces  didn't  find  them  charming,  no  doubt  they  found  them  odious.  But  to-  night,  none  of  it  bothers  her,  because  she  knows  that  they,  she  and  Edward,  are  going  to  win.  Alison  phoned  up  the  agency  first  thing  this  morning  from  her  desk  at  Spitznagel  &amp;  Shay  Real  Estate  and  told  the  girl  that  they  wanted  to  &quot;meet  with  the  little  boy  Ray-  mond.&quot;  And  the  girl  said,  &quot;Oh,  he  is  a  cutie,  isn't  he?  It's  amazing  nobody's  whisked  him  home  yet.&quot;  Nobody's  whisked  him  home.  Hanging  up  the  phone,  she  pictured  herself  doing  the  whisking,  ushering  little  Raymond  into  their  car,  into  their  house.  The  Breeces  hadn't  got  him  yet.  During  her  lunch  hour,  she  stopped  at  the  library  and  learned  that  childless  couples  in  their  thirties  are  more  likely  to  adopt  successfully  than  those  intheir  fifties,  and  she  felt  a  cautious  optimism.Thir-  ties:  that's  us!  Or  so  Alison  thinks.  Edward,  how-  ever,  at  thirty-seven,  doesn't  see  him-  T8  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  4,  2000  selfas  being  in  his  &quot;thirties.&quot;  If  pressed  he  would  probably  say  he's  &quot;around  twenty-five.&quot;  That  was  his  age  when  he  met  Alison,  the  age  when  he  hung  up  his  bong  and  shaved  his  beard.  He  regards  marriage  as  a  kind  of  deep  freeze  that  perfectly  preserves  the  ver-  sion  of  Ed-Version  3.0,  following  In-  nocence  (1.0),  The  End  of  Innocence  (1.1),  and  College  (2.0)-that  got  mar-  ried.  Sure,  he's  noticed  a  few  little  changes,the  usual  ones:  the  hair  loss,  the  shortness  of  breath,  the  getting  fat.  But  these  are  minor  setbacks,  if  they're  setbacks  at  all.  When  he  was  a  kid,  he'd  get  these  hard  fleshy  growths  on  his  fingertips,  tiny  numb  extinct  volcanoes,  which  lasted  a  good  six  months  and  wentaway  on  their  own.  That's  how  it  is  with  these  things.  But  this  morning,  when  he  was  sit-  ting  in  the  breakfast  nook  looking  out  at  the  suburban  street,  he  suddenly  found  it  difficult  to  see.  He  didn't  know  what  it  was  at  first,  a  darkening,  a  flutter-  ing,  and  for  a  moment  he  thought  he  was  having  a  heart  attack.  Just  for  a  moment.  And  thinking  he  was  having  a  heart  attack  made  his  heart  stand  briefly,  horrifyingly  still,  so  that  he  seemed  to  be  having  another  one.  Then  his  focus  changed,  and  he  saw  that  the  birdfeeder  hanging  from  the  eaves,  suspended  in  the  center  of  the  window,  was  bristling  with  nuthatches.  There  were  at  least  twenty,  flapping  madly  around  the  six  seed-choked  holes,  and  Edward  laughed  and  instantly  relaxed.  Not  a  heart  at-  tack!  Nuthatches!  The  dome  light  is  on  and  Alison  is  trying  to  read  the  map.  &quot;There's  supposed  to  be  a  secondhand-clothing  place  ...  and  then  a  bridge  ...  wait,  two  bridges,  take  the  first  left  after  the  second  bridge,  not  the  left  after  the  first  ...  and  then  go  2.3  miles.  ..  .&quot;  The  map  is  absurdly,  counterproductively  detailed,  so  that  if  theymiss  a  single  landmark  they'll  be  eating  roasted  pos-  sum  off  the  end  of  a  stick  in  the  woods  tonight.  Still,  somehow,  they  manage  to  find  the  place.  The  Breeces'  drive-     way  is  a  couple  of  ruts  that  snake  through  a  half-reclaimed  farm  field  and  plunge  into  an  untrimmed  copse  of  box  elders.  And  beyond  the  treeline:  Tal-  iesin.  Or  something  likethat.  Massive,  slabbed,  lit  like  a  pumpkin;  you  can  see  everything  inside-the  furniture  and  art  and  a  gigantic  fireplace-and  right  through  the  back  windows  onto  the  lake  and  the  blazing  sunset  reflected  there.  Alison  suppresses  a  wave  of  ha-  tred  for  the  rival  real-estate  agency  that  sold  it:  she  could  have  bought  a  baby  on  the  black  market  with  that  commission.  They  park  in  a  gravel  lot  the  size  of  a  tennis  court.  Theirs  is  the  only  car.  It  is  Linda  who  comes  to  the  door,  looking  awfully  tall  without  Harlan.  She  leads  them  inside.  Harlan  is  in  front  of  the  fire  with  a  drink  in  his  hand.  A  mesquite  smell  fills  the  room.  &quot;Harlan,  dear,&quot;his  wife  calls  out,  and  he  theatrically  snaps  to  atten-  tion  and  a  grin  spreads  across  his  face,  a  wide  face  for  such  a  thin  guy.  Edward  notes  a  bear  rug.  Wow!  &quot;Welcome,  welcome!&quot;  says  Harlan.  He  sets  down  the  drink  on  a  coffee  table  made  of  petrified  wood  and  throws  his  arms  wide.  &quot;Howdy,  pardner,&quot;  Edward  says,  and  imagines  he  sees  a  flicker  of  irritation  on  the  judge's  face.  They  shake  hands.  This  time,  Harlan  uses  his  free  hand  to  grip  Edward's  forearm,  so  Edward  grips  Harlan's  forearm,  too.  For  a  mo-  ment  the  two  men  are  locked  in  a  Boy  Scout  Death  Grip.  It  is  Harlan  who  lets  go.  Edward  notices  Linda  and  Ali-  son  attempting  togreet  each  other.  Al  is  a  hand  shaker,  and  he  just  bets  Linda  is  a  kisser.  The  two  stare  nodding  at  each  other  from  a  distance  of  several  feet.  &quot;What's  your  poison,  Ed?&quot;  &quot;Does  Hizzoner  drink  tequila?&quot;  Ed  says  impulsively.  &quot;Hell,  yes.&quot;  inda  is  talking  about  their  failed  foster-child  experiment.  Alison  lis-  tens  with  alarm.  It  is  a  sermon,  really,  a  testimonial,  delivered  with  the  strained  alacrity  of  a  community-college  eco-  nomics  lecture.  There  is  no  room  for  question  or  comment.  &quot;He  was  the  sweetest  little  boy,  a  lit-  tle  black  boy,&quot;  Linda  says.  &quot;His  momma  was  hooked  on  the  drugs,  and  he  never  had  no  daddy  to  speak  of.  His  daddy  wasn't  ever  around-well,  I  suppose  it  could  have  been  anyone.  His  momma  went  to  prison  because  of  picking  up  drugs  at  somebody's  house  with  the  little  boy  in  the  back  seat.  And,  well,  Harlan  and  I  saw  him  and  we  thought,  He's  the  one.  He  had  the  sweetest  kinky  hair  and  his  skin  was  so  smooth  and  dark.  Well.  &quot;We  brought  him  back  to  the  ranch  and  gave  him  all  the  advantages,  don't  you  know.  He  had  a  nanny  of  his  own  kind  who  was  just  as  sweet  as  a  biscuit,  and  we  gave  him  riding  lessons  and  Harlan  took  him  out  on  the  little  golf  course  we  used  to  have,  just  four  holes.  This  was  in  the  days  before  black  boys  played  golf.  And  he  went  to  a  wonderful  Tittle  school  we  found  for  him  outside  of  [REDACTED],  with  children  from  all  different  races,  they  had  the  Mexicans  and  the  Chinese  and  the  Indians  and  all  that.  Well,  we  thought  it  would  be  just  per-  fect.  Except  he  had  some  trouble  with  reading,  and  they  found  out  there  was  something  wrong  with  his  eyes,  and  also  his  ears,  which  explained  why  he  didn't  seem  to  be  listening  to  what  we  were  saying  to  him  sometimes.  If  you  ask  me,  it  was  the  drugs,  the  drugs  his  momma  took  when  he  was  in  her  belly.  And  then  poor  Angeline,  that's  the  colored  girl  who  was  his  nanny,  she  had  to  go  back  to  Trinidad  to  take  care  of  her  momma,  and  the  next  one  we  got  was  a  Mexican,  name  of  Armada-&quot;  &quot;Amara,&quot;  Harlan  says,  staring  hard  into  his  glass  of  tequila.  Alison  can't  help  but  notice  that  Edward's  glass  is  empty  and  that  his  eyes  are  casting  about  for  the  bottle.  There  it  is,  right  in  front  of  Harlan.  She  watches  as  Ed-  ward  leans  past  his  host  and  grabs  it  around  the  neck.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Linda  goes  on.  It  oc-  curs  to  Alison  that  they  cannot  possibly  have  any  friends  here.  She  wonders  why  they  left  [REDACTED]  at  all,  how  Harlan  man-  aged  to  get  appointed  a  judge  in  Lake  County.  Edward  keeps  drinking.  She  nudges  him  to  let  him  know  that  she  considers  this  unwise,  and  Harlan,  rais-  ing  his  eyebrows  in  a  flirtatious  manner,  seems  to  notice.  When  the  story  peters  out,  they  eat.  It  is  D.I.Y.,  black-bean-and-chicken  fa-  jitas.  The  salsa  is  out  of  a  jar,  a  local  store  brand.  The  tortillas  are  cold  and  clammy,  and  the  chicken  has  had  every  last  drop  of  moisture  cooked  out  of  it.  It  is  a  cursory  dinner,  clearly  not  the  in-  tended  focus  of  the  evening.  Alison  be-  gins  to  wonder,  with  some  concern,  what  the  real  focus  is.  After  dinner,  they  drink  some  more,  then  Harlan  gets  up  to  take  the  plates  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;A  little  thing  I  like  to  do  for  Linda,&quot;  he  explains.  &quot;Be  a  man,  Ed,  give  me  a  hand  here.&quot;  The  two  leave  the  room,  balancing  the  plates  in  their  arms.  Edward  is  weav-  ing  dangerously.  His  shoulder  bumps  the  kitchen  doorway,  and  Alison  winces.  She  remembers  the  drunken  dinner  parties  they  used  to  have,  the  giant  vats  of  food,  the  shouted  conversations  dur-  ing  which  not  enough  could  ever  seem  to  be  said.  And  later,  when  the  guests  had  gone,  love.  Their  grad-student  pals,  with  their  retro  eyeglasses  and  litre  bot-  tles  of  red  wine,  where  are  they  now?  [REDACTED],  Costa  Rica,  [REDACTED].  She  and  Edward  were  so  smug  about  stay-  ing:  real  people  stay  put,  they  told  them-  selves.  And  here  they  are,  right  where  they  wanted  to  be.  She  turns  back  to  Linda  and  has  to  stifle  a  gasp.  The  older  woman  has  come  to  life:  hands  on  her  knees,  she  leans  forward  as  if  to  impart  a  powerful  secret.  Her  eyes  glow  orange  in  the  fire-  light,  her  skin  is  flushed-and  how  did  her  neck  get  to  be  so  long  and  muscled?  She  looks  like  ...  a  cheetah.  Alison  realizes  that  this  is  it.  The  moment.  She  is  about  to  learn  why  they  were  asked  here.  &quot;Where  is  your  bathroom?&quot;  She  asks  suddenly.  Startled,  Linda  coughs,  licks  her  lips.  A  small  smile  arranges  itself.  She  points  to  the  stairs.  &quot;Second  door  on  the  left.&quot;  In  the  kitchen,  Edward  drops  the  plates  on  the  counter.  For  a  moment,  he  is  disoriented  enough  to  mistake  the  sound  for  a  flying  object  and  he  ducks.  His  brain  stays  where  it  was,  though,  and  the  room  doubles.  He  blinks  hard.  When  his  vision  is  restored,  the  face  of  Harlan  looms  in  his.  &quot;I  got  a  lot  of  good  friends,&quot;  Har-  lan  says.  &quot;Not  me,&quot;  Edward  replies.  He's  trying  to  be  funny,  but  suddenly  this  doesn't  seem  funny  at  all.  Perhaps  be-  cause  it1s  true.  &quot;People  in  law  enforcement,  people  in  the  courts,&quot;  the  judge  goes  on,  ignor-  ing  the  interruption.  &quot;One  particular  friend  of  mine  is  located  in  [REDACTED],  Mass.&quot;  &quot;Never  heard  of  it.&quot;  Harlan  is  very  close,  leaning  right  over  him,  giving  off  an  odor.  It's  the  smell  of  mentholated  salve.  Has  he  got  arthritis?  Edward  feels  sorry  for  the  older  man,  sorry  for  the  life  he's  leading  here  on  the  lake,  in  the  house,  with  the  wife.  He's  sorry  for  hav-  ing  come  to  dinner.  The  fajitas  are  a  bit-  ter  ball  inside  him.  &quot;Sure  you  have.  You've  been  there.&quot;  &quot;Have  I?&quot;  says  Edward.  &quot;Yes,  you  have.  You  were  there  be-  tween  the  years  of  1981  and  1987.  You  went  to  college  there.  Remember  that?&quot;  &quot;Sheesh,&quot;  Edward  tells  him.  &quot;I  sure  don't  know.  Do  you  think  I  could  help  myself  to  a  glass  of  water?&quot;  Was  it  really  that  long  ago?  He  still  has  dreams  about  college,  in  which  impor-  80  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  4,  2000  tant  mail  is  waiting  for  him  in  his  cam-  pus  mailbox  and  he  can't  remember  the  combination.  Harlan  moves  even  closer.  &quot;You  had  yourself  a  little  business  there,  didn't  you,  Eddie?&quot;  &quot;I  was  an  English  major.&quot;  &quot;You  were  in  sales  and  distribution.&quot;  &quot;Nah.&quot;  &quot;Unfortunately,  your  little  business  came  to  the  attention  of  the  Harvard  administration.  You  were  spared  prose-  cution  in  exchange  for  your  permanent  absence  from  the  campus.  After  that,  you  got  yourself  enrolled  at  Tufts  and  slunk  out  of  there  acouple  years  later.  Is  this  refreshing  your  memory?&quot;  &quot;You  bet  it's  refreshing.  I  don't  even  need  that  water  anymore.&quot;  Harlan  attempts  a  grin,  but  the  cor-  ners  of  his  mouth  don't  seem  to  be  cooperating.  &quot;Keep  cracking  those  jokes,  pothead,&quot;  he  whispers,  and  the  whis-  pers  clatter  around  the  gleaming,  disin-  fected  kitchen.  Behind  Harlan,  on  the  counter,  Edward  spies  the  takeout  boxes  from  Taco  Treat.  &quot;Seems  that  your  records  with  the  agency  lacked  this  im-  portant  information.  I  took  the  liberty  of  updating  them  for  you.&quot;  &quot;The  agency?&quot;  &quot;The  adoption  agency.&quot;  Something  is  welling  up  inside  Ed-  ward,  something  acid  and  explosive,  first  in  his  churning  stomach,  then  in  his  esophagus,  then  in  his  throat.  How  dare  this  man  judge  me?  he  thinks-but  then  again,  that's  what  judges  do.  They  make  judgments!  And  then  it's  out  of  him  and  all  over  the  room:  hot  laughter,  cracking  the  air.  Judgments!  He  falls  against  the  counter,  tears  pouring  from  his  eyes.  Harlan  has  taken  a  step  back.  He's  put  on  his  workaday  face,  the  one  he  must  wear  as  he  pretends  to  listen  carefully  to  all  the  evidence.  Edward  is  gasping  for  breath.  &quot;What  the  hell?&quot;  Harlan  says.  Edward  pounds  the  counter,  hurting  his  hand.  It  feels  great!  He  can't  seem  to  speak,  but  what  would  he  say?  The  pic-  nic,  the  Breeces,  this  house,  it's  all  so  fucking  funny!  But  Harlan  doesn't  seem  to  get  it,  and  he  doesn't  seem  to  like  not  getting  it.  He  sets  himself  in  a  bearish  crouch,  and  his  lip  curls  under,  and  the  fuzzy  panhandle  rears  back.  Yikes!  Edward  finds  himself  on  the  floor,  his  legs  splayed  on  the  terra-cotta  quarry  tile,  his  back  against  the  cabinets.  Hey,  how'd  he  get  down  here?  The  cabinets  arelightblue,  with  red  lizards  stencilled  on  them.  The  whole  right  side  of  his  face  seems  to  be  throbbing,  yet  giggles  are  still  coming  out  of  him,  like  hic-  cups,  involuntary  and  annoying.  Harlan  has  cured  Edward's  indecision.  There  will  be  no  adoption.  «You  son  of  a  bitch,&quot;  Edward  hears.  And  then  he  is  yanked  to  his  feet  and  flung  through  the  kitchen  door.  &quot;You  can  find  your  own  coat,  ass-  hole,&quot;  shouts  the  judge.  lison's  feet  are  silent  in  the  car-  peted  hallway.  It's  different  up  here;  the  walls  arebare.  When  she  shows  a  house,  the  upstairs  hallways  are  always  like  this:  hollow-core  doors,  shag  carpeting,  a  life-swallowing  softness.  This  is  where  she  loses  the  buyer,  right  here,  as  her  enthusiasm  leaves  her.  If  only  enthusiasm  meant  anything    to  the  State  of  New  York.  If  only  the  sprawl  and  scatter  of  lived  life  were  worth  anything:  then  their  house,  their  home,  would  be  all  the  application  they  needed.  But  it  was  all  too  easy  to  see  it  through  the  eyes  of  the  agency.  The  basement  full  of  nail-riddled  scrap  lumber.  The  tangle  of  extension  cords  behind  the  sofa.  The  champagne  stain  on  the  living-room  ceiling.  All  of  it  screaming  &quot;unfit.&quot;  But  this!  Alison  cannot  compete  with  this.  A  blameless,  immaculate  hallway,  erased  of  all  evidence.  As  if  in  cahoots  with  her  heart,  her  bladder  grows  heavier.  The  second  door  on  the  left.  There  it  is,  the  only  one  open.  A  dim  light  shines  from  inside.  She  can  hear  voices  in  the  kitchen,  Harlan's  and  Edward's,  exchanging  confidences.  It's  so  easy  for  men,  she  thinks,  so  hard  for  women.  Men  of  any  class  have  football  and  fish-  ing  to  discuss;  women  have  nothing.  Or  worse,  they  have  children.  Or  worse  still,  no  children.  She  enters  the  bathroom  and  sees  a  bed.  Obviously,  she's  made  a  mis-  take.  She  peeksout  into  the  hall:  sec-  ond  door  on  the  left.  No,  it  was  no  mis-  take.  She's  exactly  where  Linda  wants  her.  The  bedroom  walls  are  painted  bright-blue  and  -red,  and  there  is  a  small  desk  with  a  colorful  computer  on  it,  and  there's  a  boom  box  and  shelves  stacked  with  comic  books  and  horror  novels.  The  wallpaper  is  patterned  with  cartoon  characters.  There's  a  Buffalo  Bills  throw  rug.  Instinct  tells  her  to  leave  immedi-  ately,  to  grab  Edward's  arm  and  yank  him  out  of  the  house.  But  she  still  has  to  pee.  She  spins  and  walks  stiffly  into  the  hall.  She  tries  each  door  un-  til  she  finds  the  bathroom,  a  dimly  lit  fun  houseof  globe  lights  and  gilt  mirrors.  Then  she  happens  to  glance  down  the  stairs  and  sees  the  back  of  Linda's  head,  the  tight,  ugly  coif,  and  she  changes  her  mind.  She  goes  back  into  the  boy's  room.  There  is  a  Knicks  trash  can  in  the  cor-  ner  by  the  desk.  She  pulls  it  out  a  little  and  looks  down  into  it,  at  the  pale,  blurred  oval  at  the  bottom,  her  face.  Can  she  do  it?  That  is,  physically?  There  is  only  one  way  to  find  out.  It  was  hot  enough  today  for  her  not  to  have  worn  panty  hose,  and  that  makes  doing  it  easier.  Crouched  over  the  can,  she  is  amazed  at  the  loudness  of  it,  like  rain  on  a  cor-  rugated  tin  roof.  e's  drunk,  she  drives.  They  aren't  fighting;  that  will  happen  later.  What  they're  doing  now  is  thinking.  Alison  is  thinking,  To  hell  with  adop-  tion.  Give  me  the  drugs.  If  I  get  preg-  nant  with  eight  babies,  they  can  kill  six.  It's  worth  it  to  me.  I  will  populate  the  world  with  bold,  honest,  sloppy  people  like  myself.  And  if  Edward  can't  de-  liver,  I  will  use  another  man's  sperm,  from  a  lab.  She  is  amazed  that  she  can  remember  the  doctor's  phone  number:  if  she  had  to,  she  could  pull  over  at  a  convenience  store  and  leave  a  message  with  the  answering  service.  She  feels  fecund  and  powerful  and  reckless  and  correct  in  everything.  Every  thought  is  gilded,  and  sharp  as  a  dagger.  Edward  is  having  a  fantasy.  He  and  Alison  have  gone  back  to  college.  They  live  ina  dorm,  with  roommates  who  never  go  out:  for  Ed,  a  brooding  linguist  who  always  leaves  sweaty  towels  lying  around;  for  Alison,  an  angry  feminist  with  tangled  hair.  How  hard  it  is  to  be  together,  and  how  sweet.  They  meet  in  dark  and  lonely  places  for  whispered  conversations  and  for  sex:  an  aban-  doned  carrel  in  the  engineering  library,  the  woods  behind  the  physical  plant,  a  supply  closet  in  the  business  school.  They  talk  about  what  it  will  be  like  someday  when  they're  married  and  have  a  house  of  their  own:  a  place  all  to  themselves,  where  they'll  never  be  bothered  by  other  people.  They'll  make  love  in  every  room.  They'll  confess  their  deepest  secrets,  or,  better  yet,  they  won't  have  any.  Edward  is  asleep  when  they  get  home.  Poor  Edward,  lolling  half-  conscious  in  the  passenger  seat,  reminds  Alison  of  a  mannequin.  No,  a  dummy:  a  marriage  test  dummy,  with  a  heart-  shaped  target  on  his  chest  where  he  keeps  getting  pounded.  She  unbuckles  his  seat  belt  and  shakes  him,  but  he  re-  fuses  to  wake.  All  he  will  do  is  quietly  moan.  So  she  leaves  him  there,  in  the  car.  Later  on,  showered,  cold-creamed,  nightgowned,  she  lies  in  their  bed  not  sleeping,  her  fingers  on  her  belly,  waiting  for  the  sound  of  the  door. 