     On  the  drive  over  to  the  Nicholsons'  for  dinner-their  first  in  some  time-Marjorie  Reeves  told  her  hus-  band,  Steven  Reeves,  that  she  had  had  an  affair  with  George  Nicholson  (their  host)  a  year  ago,  but  that  it  was  all  over  with  now  and  she  hoped  he-Steven-  would  not  be  mad  about  it  and  could  go  on  with  life.  At  this  point  they  were  driving  along  Carding  Croft  Road  where  it  leaves  the  Perkins  Great  Woods  and  begins  to  border  the  Shenipsit  reservoir,  dark  and  shadowy  and  calmly  mirrored  in  the  late-spring  twilight.  On  the  right  was  dense  young  timber-beech  and  alder  saplings  in  pale  leaf,  the  ground  damp  and  cakey.  Peepers  were  calling  out  from  the  watery  lows.  Their  turn  onto  Apple  Orchard  Lane  was  still  a  mile  on.  FICTION  ISSUES  BY  RICHARD  FORD  Steven,  on  hearing  this  news,  began  gradually  and  very  carefully  to  steer  their  car-a  tan  Mercedes  wagon  with  hooded  yellow  headlights-off  Carding  Croft  Road  and  onto  the  damp  grassy  shoulder  so  he  could  organize  the  infor-  mation  properly  before  going  on.  They  were  extremely  young.Steven  Reeves  was  twenty-eight,  Marjorie  Reeves  a  yearyounger.  They  weren't  rich,  but  they  had  been  lucky.  Steven's  job  at  Packard-Wells  was  to  stay  on  top  of  a  small  segment  of  a  larger  segment  of  a  rather  minute  prefabrication  intersec-  tionthat  serviced  the  automobile  indus-  try,  and  where  a  sudden  alteration,  or  even  the  rumor  ofan  alteration,  in  cer-  tain  polymer-bonding  formulas  could  tip  crucial  down-the-line  demand  pat-  terns,  and  in  that  way  affect  the  comfort  zones  of  several  meaningful  client  posi-  tions.  His  job  meant  poring  over  esoteric  petrochemical-industry  journals,  attend-  ing  technical  seminars,  flying  to  vender  conventions,  then  writing  up  status  re-  ports  while  keeping  an  eye  on  the  mar-  ket  for  the  benefit  of  his  higher-ups.  He  had  been  a  scholarship  boy  at  Bates  and  studied  chemistry,  was  the  only  sonof  a  hard-put  but  upright  lobstering  fam-  ily  in  Pemaquid,  [REDACTED].  He  had  done  well.  His  bosses  at  Packard-Wells  liked  him,  saw  themselves  in  him,  and  in  him  saw  other  attributes  they  never  quite  owned-blond  and  slender  callowness,  tending  to  gullibility,  but  also  caution  and  a  compact  toughness.  Sharp.  It  was  his  seventh  year  with  the  company-his  first  job.  He  and  Marjorie  had  been  married  two  years.  They  had  no  chil-     dren.  The  car  had  been  his  bonus  two  Christmases  ago.  When  the  car  eased  to  a  stop,  Steven  sat  for  a  minute  with  the  motor  run-  ning,  the  salmon-colored  dash  lights  il-  Tuminating  his  face.  The  radio  had  been  playing  softly-the  last  of  the  news,  then  an  interlude  for  French  horns.  Re-  sponding  to  no  particular  signal,  he  pressed  the  radio  off,  and  in  the  same  movement  switched  off  the  ignition,  which  left  the  headlights  shining  upon  the  empty  countrified  road.  The  win-  dows  were  down  to  attract  the  cool  spring  air,  and  when  the  engine  noise  ceased  the  evening's  ambient  sounds  were  waiting.  The  small  peepers.  A  sound  of  thrush  wings  fluttering  in  the  saplings  only  a  few  feet  away.  The  noise  of  something  falling  from  a  small  distance  and  hitting  an  invisible  water  surface.  Beyond  the  stand  of  saplings  was  the  west,  and  through  the  darkened  trunks  the  sky  far  awaywas  still  pale  yellow  with  the  day's  light,  though  here  on  Carding  Croft  Road  it  was  nearly  dark.  When  Marjorie  said  what  she  had  just  said,  she  had  been  looking  straight  ahead  to  where  the  headlights  made  a  bright  path  in  the  dark.  Perhaps  she  had  looked  at  Steven  once,  but  upon  saying  what  she  had  said,  she  kept  her  hands  in  her  lap  and  continued  looking  ahead.  She  was  a  pretty,  blond,  convictionless  girl  with  small  demure  features-small  nose,  small  ears,  small  chin,  though  with  a  surprisingly  full-lipped  smile,  which  she  practiced  on  everyone.  She  was  fond  of  getting  a  little  tipsy  at  parties  and  lowering  her  voice  and  sitting  on  a  flow-  ered  ottoman  or  a  burl  tabletop  with  a  glass  of  something  and  showing  too  much  of  her  legs  or  inappropriate  amounts  of  her  small  breasts.  She  had  grown  up  in  [REDACTED],  studied  artat  Purdue.  Steven  had  met  her  in  New  York  at  a  party  while  she  was  working  for  a  firm  that  did  child-focussed  advertising  for  a  large  z  toymaker.  He'd  liked  her  bobbed  hair,  g  wispy  features,  translucent  skin,  and  the  &amp;  slightly  husky  voice  that  made  her  seem  §  more  sophisticated  than  she  was,  and  é  somehow  convinced  her  she  was,  too.  In  a  their  community,  east  of  [REDACTED],  the  &lt;  women  who  knew  Marjorie  Reeves  g  thought  of  her  as  a  bimbo  who  would  &amp;  not  stay  married  to  sweet  Steven  Reeves  €  very  long.  His  second  wife  would  be  the  6  right  wife.  Marjorie  was  just  a  starter.  Marjorie,  however,  did  not  think  of  herself  that  way,  but  only  that  she  liked  men  and  felt  happy  around  them  and  as-  sumed  Steven  thought  this  was  fine  and  thatin  the  long  run  it  would  help  his  ca-  reer  to  have  a  pretty  wife  no  one  could  pigeonhole.  To  set  herself  apart  and  to  take  an  interest  in  the  community,  she  had  gone  to  work  as  a  volunteer  at  a  grieving-children's  center  in  [REDACTED],  which  meant  all  black.  And  it  was  in  [REDACTED]  that  she  had  had  the  chance  to  encounter  George  Nicholson  and  fuck  him  at  a  Red  Roof  Inn  until  they  had  both  got  tired  of  it.  It  would  never  hap-  pen  again  was  her  view,  since  in  a  year  it  had  not  happened  again.  For  the  two  or  possibly  five  minutes  now  that  they  had  sat  on  the  side  of  Carding  Croft  Road  in  the  still,  cool  evening,  with  the  noises  of  spring  float,  ing  in  and  out  of  the  open  window,  Mar-  jorie  had  said  nothing  and  Steven  had  also  said  nothing,  though  he  realized  that  he  was  saying  nothing  because  he  was  at  a  loss  for  words.  A  loss  for  words,  he  un-  derstood  now,  meant  that  nothing  which  comes  to  mind  seems  very  interesting  to  say  as  a  next  thing  to  what  has  just  been  said.  He  knew  he  was  a  callow  man-a  boy  in  some  ways,  still-but  he  was  not  stupid.  He  had  taken  Dr.  Sudofsky's  class  on  &quot;Ulysses&quot;  at  Bates,  and  come  away  with  a  sense  of  irony  and  humor  and  a  conviction  thattrue  knowledge  was  a  spiritual  journey,  a  quest,  not  a  storage  of  dry  facts-a  thing  like  freedom  which  you  fully  experienced  only  in  practice.  He  had  also  played  hockey  and  thought  that  knowledge  and  aggressiveness  were  a  subtle  and  surprising  combination.  He  practiced  both  at  Packard-Wells.  But  for  a  brief  and  terrifying  moment  in  the  cool,  padded  semi-darkness  just  when  he  began  experiencing  his  loss  for  words,  he  entered  or  at  least  nearly  slipped  into  a  hypnotic  fuguelike  state  in  which  he  began  to  realize  and  fear  that  he  perhaps  could  not  say  another  word;  that  something  (work  fatigue,  shock,  disappointment  over  what  Marjorie  had  admitted)  was  at  that  moment  causing  him  to  detach  from  reality,  to  begin  to  slide  away  from  the  moment  he  was  in,  and  in  fact  to  lose  his  purchase  andgo  crazy  to  the  extent  that  he  was  in  jeop-  ardy  of  beginning  to  gibber  like  a  chimp,  or  just  to  slip  slowly  sideways  against  the  upholstered  door  and  not  speak  for  a  long,  long  time-months-and  then  only  with  the  aid  of  drugs  be  able  merely  to  speak  in  simple  utterances  that  would  seem  cryptic,  so  that  eventually  he  would  have  to  be  looked  after  by  his  mother's  family  in  Damariscotta.  A  terrible  thought.  And  so  to  avoid  that-to  save  his  life  °  and  sanity-he  abruptly  justsaid  a  word,  any  word  that  he  could  say  into  the  per-  fumed  twilight  inhabiting  the  car,  where  his  wife  was  obviously  anticipating  his  reply  to  her  unhappy  confession.  For  some  reason  the  word-phrase,  really-he  uttered  was  &quot;ground  clutter.&quot;  Something  he'd  heard  on  the  TV  weather  as  he  and  Marjorie  were  dressing  for  dinner.  &quot;Hm?&quot;  Marjorie  said.  &quot;What  was  it?&quot;  She  turned  her  pretty,  small-featured  face  toward  him  so  that  her  pearl  ear-  rings  caught  light  from  some  unknown  source.  She  was  wearing  a  tiny  green  cocktail  dress  and  green  satin  shoes  that  showed  off  her  incredibly  thin  ankles  and  slender  bare,  brown  calves.  She  had  two  tiny  matching  green  bows  in  her  hair.  She  smelled  sweet.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Mar-  jorie  said,  ignoring  him,  &quot;this  was  not  what  you  wanted  to  hear.  But  I  felt  I  should  tell  you  before  we  got  to  George's.  The  Nicholsons',  I  mean.  It's  all  over.  It'll  never  happen  again.  I  promise  you.  No  one  will  ever  mention  it.  I  just  lost  my  bearings  last  year,  with  the  move.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  She  had  made  a  sharp  lit-  tle  steeple  of  her  fingertips  as  if  she'd  been  concentrating  hard  when  she  spoke  these  words.  But  now  she  put  her  hands  calmly  in  her  minty  green  lap  again.  She  had  bought  her  dress  especially  for  this  night  at  the  Nicholsons'.  She  had  thought  George  would  like  it  and  Steven  would,  too.  She  turned  her  face  away  and  ex-  haled  a  soft  but  detectable  sigh  in  the  car.  It  was  then  that  the  headlights  went  off  automatically.  George  Nicholson  was  a  big  squash-  playing,  thick-chested,  hairy-armed  Yale  lawyer  who  sailed  his  own  Hinckley-61  out  of  Essex  and  had  started  backing  off  from  his  high-priced  [REDACTED]  plaintiffs'  practice  at  fifty  to  devote  more  time  to  competitive  racquet  sports  and  senior  skiing.  George  was  a  college  roommate  of  one  of  Steven's  firm's  partners  and  had  &quot;adopted&quot;  the  Reeveses  when  they  moved  into  the  community  following  their  wedding.  Marjorie  had  worked  with  George'swife  Patsy  at  the  Episco-  pal  Thrift  Shop  during  their  first  six  months  in  [REDACTED].  To  Steven,  George  Nicholson  had  talked  about  a  magical  seasoning  summer  he'd  spent  hauling  deep-water  lobster  traps  with  some  tough  old  dogs  out  of  Matinicus.  Later,  he'd  been  a  Marine,  had  a  faded  tattoo  of  an  anchor,  ball,  and  chain  on  his  forearm.  Later  yet,  he'd  fucked  Steven's  wife.  Having  said  something,  even  some-  thing  that  made  no  sense,  Steven  felt  a  sense  of  glum  and  deflated  reliefas  he  sat  in  the  silent  car  beside  Mar-  jorie,  who  was  still  facing  forward.  Two  thoughts  had  begun  to  compete  inhis  reviving  awareness.  One  was  clearly  occasioned  by  the  thought  of  George  Nicholson.  He  considered  George  Nicholson  a  gasbagbut  also  a  force-  ful  man  who  had  made  his  pile  by  let-  ting  little  stand  in  his  way.  When  he  thought  about  George  he  always  re-  membered  the  story  about  Matinicus,  which  put  into  his  mind  a  picture  of  his  own  father  and  himself  hauling  traps  somewhere  out  toward  Monhegan.  The  reek  of  the  bait,  thesickening  toss  of  the  ocean  in  late  spring,  the  consoling  monotony  of  the  solid  bank  of  trees  barely  visible  through  the  mists.  Just  thinking  through  that  circuitry  had  made  him  vaguely  admire  George  Nichol-  son,  and,  oddly,  it  made  him  think  he  138  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  18,  2000  liked  George  in  spite  of  everything.  The  other  competing  thought  was  that  in  Marjorie's  character  there  had  al-  ways  been  the  impulse  to  confess  upset,  ting  things  that  turned  out-he  be-  lieved-not  to  be  true;  being  a  hooker  for  a  summer  up  in  Saugatuck;  topless  dancing  while  she  was  an  undergradu-  ate;  heroin  experimentation;  taking  part  in  armed  robberies  with  herhigh-school  boyfriend  in  Goshen,  where  she  was  from.  When  she  told  these  far-fetched  stories  she  would  grow  distracted,  and  shake  her  head,  as  though  they  were  true.  And  now,  while  he  didn't  particu-  larly  think  any  of  these  stories  was  a  bit  truer,  he  did  think  that  he  didn't  really  know  his  wife  at  all;  and  that  the  entire  conception  of  knowing  another  person,  of  trust,  of  closeness,  of  marriage  itself  was  (while  not  exactly  a  lie  because  it  ex-  isted  someplace  if  only  as  an  idea-in  his  parents'  life,  at  least  marginally),  com-  pletely  out-of-date,  defunct,  was  some-  thing  that  typified  another  era,  now  unfortunately  gone.  Meeting  a  girl  in  New  York,  falling  in  love,  marrying  her,  moving  to  [REDACTED],  buying  a  fuck-  ing  house,  starting  a  life  with  her  and  thinking  you  knew  anything  about  her-  the  last  part  was  a  complete  fiction,  which  made  the  rest  a  joke.  Marjorie  might  as  well  have  been  a  hooker  or  have  held  up  7-Elevens  and  shot  people  for  all  he  knew  about  her.  And  what  was  more,  if  he'd  said  any  of  this  to  her,  as  she  sat  next  to  him,  thinking  he  would  never  know  what,  she  would  either  not  have  under-  stood  a  word  of  it  or  simply  would've  said,  &quot;Well  O.K.,  that'sfine.&quot;  When  peo-  ple  talked  about  the  bottom  line,  they  weren't  talking  about  money,  they  were  talking  about  what  this  meant,  &amp;h¢s  kind  of  fatal  ignorance.  Money-losing  it,  gaining  it,  spending  it,  hoarding  it-all  that  was  only  an  example,  and  a  good  one,  of  what  was  happening  right  now.  At  this  point  a  pair  of  car  lights  rounded  a  curve  somewhere  out  ahead  of  where  the  two  of  them  sat  in  their  station  wagon.  The  lights  found  both  their  staring  white  faces  turned  forward  in  silence.  The  lights  also  found  a  rac-  coon  just  crossing  the  road  from  the  reservoir,  headed  for  the  woods  that  was  beside  them.  The  car  was  going  faster  than  might  have  been  evident.  The  rac-  coon  paused  to  look  up  into  theap-  proaching  lights,  then  continued  on  into  the  safe  opposite  lane.  But  only  then  did  it  turn  and  notice  Steven  and  Marjorie's  car  stopped  on  the  verge  of  the  road,  silent  in  the  murky  evening.  And  be-  cause  of  thatnotice  it  must've  decided  that  where  it  had  been  was  much  bet-  ter  than  where  it  was  going,  and  so  turned  to  scamper  back  across  Carding  Croft  Road  toward  the  cool  waters  of  the  reservoir,  whichwas  what  caused  the  car-actually,  it  was  a  beat-up  pickup-to  rumble  over  it,  pitching  it  spinning  off  to  the  side  near  the  opposite  shoulder.  &quot;Wooo-wooo-weee!&quot;  a  man's  voice  shouted  from  inside  the  darkened  cab  of  the  pickup,  followed  by  another  man's  laughter.  And  then  it  was  very  silent  again.  The  raccoon  lay  unmoving  on  the  road  twenty  yards  in  front  of  the  Reeves's  car.  It  did  not  struggle.  It  was  merely  there.  &quot;Gross,&quot;  Marjorie  said.  Steven  said  nothing.  He  felt  less  at  a  loss  for  words  now.  Indeed,  his  eyes  felt  relieved  to  fix  on  the  stilled  corpse  of  the  raccoon.  &quot;Do  we  do  something?&quot;  Marjorie  said.  Shewas  leaning  forward  a  few  inches  to  peer  more  intently  at  the  rac-  coon  through  the  windshield.  Light  was  dying  away  behind  the  slender  beech  trees  to  the  west  of  them.  &quot;No,&quot;  Steven  said.  These  were  his   first  words-except  for  the  words  he  took  no  responsibility  for-since  Mar-  jorie  had  said  what  she  had  importantly  said  and  their  car  was  still  moving  to-  ward  dinner.  It  was  then  that  he  hit  her.  He  hit  her  before  he  knew  he  wanted  to,  but  not  be-  fore  he  knew  he  had  done  it.  He  hit  her  with  the  back  of  his  open  right  hand  without  even  looking  at  her,  hit  her  straight  in  the  front  of  her  face,  straight  in  the  nose.  And  hard.  In  a  way,  it  was  more  a  gesture  than  a  blow,  though  it  was,  he  understood,  a  blow.  He  felt  the  soft  tip  of  her  nose,  and  then  the  knuckly  cartilage  against  the  hard  bones  of  his  fingers.  He  had  never  hit  a  woman  before,  and  he  had  never  even  thought  of  hitting  Marjorie,  always  imagining  he  couldn't  hit  her  when  he'd  read  news-  paper  accounts  of  such  things  in  the  lives  of  others.  He  had  hit  other  peo-  ple,  been  hit  by  other  people  plenty  of  times-tough  [REDACTED]  boys.Girls  were  out,  though.  His  father  always  made  that  clear.  His  mother,  too.  &quot;Oh,  my  goodness,&quot;  was  all  that  Marjorie  said  when  she  received  the  blow,  though  she  put  her  hand  over  her  nose  immediately  and  sat  silently  in  the  car  while  neither  of  them  said  anything.  His  heart  was  not  beating  hard.  The  backof  his  hand  hurt  a  little.  This  was  all  new  ground.  Steven  had  a  small  rosy  birthmark  just  where  his  left  sideburn  ended  and  his  shaved  face  began.  Itre-  sembled  the  shape  of  the  state  of  West  [REDACTED].  He  thought  he  could  feel  this  birthmarknow.  His  skin  tingled  there.  And  the  truth  was  he  felt  relieved,  and  did  not  feel  at  all  sorry  for  Marjorie,  sitting  there  stoically,  making  a  little  tent  of  her  hand  to  cover  her  nose  and  staring  ahead  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  He  thought  she  would've  cried,  naturally.  Shewas  a  girl  who  cried-when  she  was  unhappy,  when  he  said  something  in-  sensitive,  when  she  was  approaching  her  period.  Crying  was  natural.  Clearly,  though,  it  was  a  new  experience  for  her  to  be  hit.  And  so  it  called  upon  some-  thing  new,  and  if  not  new  then  some  strength,  resilience,  self-  mastery  nor-  mally  reserved  for  other  experiences.  &quot;I  can't  go  to  the  Nicholsons'  now,&quot;  Marjorie  said  almost  patiently.  She  re-  moved  her  hand  and  viewed  her  palm  as  if  her  palm  had  her  nose  in  it.  Of  course  it  was  blood  she  was  thinking  about.  He  heard  her  breath  first  through  what  sounded  like  a  congested  nose,  then  the  breath  was  completed  out  through  her  mouth.  She  was  not  crying  yet.  And  for  that  moment  he  felt  not  even  sure  he  had  smacked  her-if  it  hadn't  been  just  a  thought  he'd  had,a  gesture  somehow  uncommissioned.  '  What  he  wanted  to  do,  however,  was  skip  to  the  most  important  things,  not  get  mired  down  in  wrong,  extraneous  details.  Because  he  didn't  give  a  shit  about  George  Nicholson  or  the  particu-  lars  of  what  they  had  done  in  some  shitty  motel.  Marjorie  would  never  leave  him  for  George  Nicholson  or  anyone  like  George  Nicholson,  and  George  Nicholson  and  men  like  George  Nich-  olson-high  rollers  with  Hinckleys-  didn't  throw  it  all  away  for  unimportant  women  like  Marjorie.  He  thought  of  her  nose,  red,  swollen,  smeared  with  sticky  blood  dripping  onto  her  green  dress.  He  didn't  imagine  it  could  be  broken.  Noses  held  up.  And,  of  course,  there  was  the  phone  in  the  car.  He  could  make  a  call  to  the  party.  He  pictured  the  Nichol-  sons'  great  rambling  white-shingled  house  brightly  lit  beyond  the  cury-  ing  drive,  the  original  elms  exorbitantly  preserved,  the  footlights,  the  low-lit  clay  court  where  they  had  all  played,  the  heated  pool,  the  Henry  Moore  out  on  the  darkened  lawn  where  you  just  bumped  into  it.  He  imagined  saying  to  someone-not  George  Nicholson-  that  Marjorie  was  ill,  had  thrown  upon  the  side  of  the  road.  The  right  details,  though.  The  right  details  to  ascertain  from  her  were,  Are  you  sorry?  (he  had  forgotten  that  Mar-  jorie  had  already  said  she  was  sorry)  and  What  does  this  mean  for  the  future?  These  were  the  details  that  mattered.  Surprisingly,  the  raccoon  that  had  been  cartwheeled  by  the  pickup  truck  and  then  lain  motionless,  a  blob  in  the  near-darkness,  had  come  back  to  life  and  was  now  trying  to  drag  itself  and  its  use-   less  hinder  parts  offthe  Carding  Croft  Road  and  onto  the  grassy  verge  and  the  underbrush  that  bordered  the  reservoir.  &quot;Oh,  for  God's  sake,&quot;  Marjorie  said,  and  put  her  hand  over  her  damaged  nose  again.  She  had  seen  the  raccoon's  strug-  gle  and  now  turned  her  head  away.  &quot;Aren't  you  even  sorry?&quot;  Steven  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Marjorie  said,  her  nose  still  covered  as  if  she  wasn't  thinking  about  the  fact  that  she  was  covering  it.  Proba-  bly,  he  thought,  the  pain  had  already  gone  away.  It  hadn't  been  so  bad.  &quot;I  mean  no,&quot;  she  said.  He  wanted  to  hit  her  again  then-a  second  time.  This  time  in  the  ear.  But  he  didn't.  He  wasn't  sure  why  not.  No  one  would  ever  know.  &quot;Well,  which  is  it?&quot;  he  said  and  felt  for  the  first  time  really  furi-  ous.  The  thing  that  made  him  furious  all  his  life,  the  very  maddest-was  to  be  put  into  a  situation  in  which  everything  he  did  was  wrong.  When  right  was  no  longer  an  option.  Now  felt  like  one  of  those  situations.  &quot;Which  is  it?&quot;  he  said  again  angrily.  &quot;Really.&quot;  He  should  just  take  her  to  the  Nicholsons',  he  thought,  swollen  nose,  bloody  lips,  all  stoppered  up,  and  let  her  deal  with  it.  Or  let  her  sit  in  the  car,  or  start  walking  the  11.6  miles  home.  Maybe  George  could  come  out  and  drive  her  in  his  Rover.  These  were  only  thoughts,  of  course.  &quot;Which  is  it?&quot;  he  said  a  third  time.  He  was  stuck  on  these  words  now,  on  this  bit  of  barren  curiosity.  &quot;I  was  sorry  when  I  told  you,&quot;  Mar-  jorie  said,  very  composed.  She  lowered  her  hand  from  her  nose  to  her  lap.  One  of  the  little  green  bows  that  had  been  in  her  hair  was  now  resting  on  her  bare  shoulder.  &quot;Though  not  very  sorry,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Only  sorry  because  I  had  to  tell  you.  And  now  that  I've  told  you  and  you've  hit  me  in  my  face  and  probably  broken  my  nose,  I'm  not  sorry  about  anything-except  that.  And  I'm  sorry  about  being  married  to  you,  which  I  will  remedy  as  soon  as  I  can.&quot;  She  was  still  not  crying.  &quot;So  #0w,  will  you  as  a  gesture  of  whatever  good  there  is  in  you,  get  out  and  go  over  and  do  something  to  help  that  poor  injured  creature  that  those  motherfucking  rednecks  maimed  with  their  motherfucking  pickup  truck  and  then,  because  they  are  pieces  of  shit  and  low  forms  of  degraded  humanity,  laughed  about?  Can  you  do  that,  Steven?  Is  that  in  your  range?&quot;  She  sniffed  back  hard  through  her  nose,  then  expelled  a  short,  deep,  and  defeated  moan.  Natu-  rally  her  voice  seemed  more  nasal,  more  Middle  Western  even,  now  that  her  nose  was  congested.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  hit  you,&quot;  Steven  Reeves  said  andopened  the  car  door  onto  the  silent  road.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Marjorie  saidin  an  emo-  tionless  voice.  &quot;And  you'll  be  sorrier.&quot;  When  Steven  had  walked  down  the  empty  macadam  road  in  his  tan  suit  to  where  the  raccoon  had  been  struck  and  then  bounced  over  onto  the  roadside,  there  was  nothing  now  there.  Only  a  small  circle  of  dark  blood  he  could  just  make  out  on  the  nubbly  road  surface  and  that  might  have  been  an  oil  smudge.  No  raccoon.  The  raccoon  with  its  last  re-  serves  of  savage,  unthinking  will  had  found  the  strength  to  pull  itself  off  into  the  bushes  to  die.  Steven  peered  down  into  the  dark,  stalky  confinement  of  scrubs  and  bramble  that  separated  the  road  from  the  reservoir.  It  was  very  still  there.  He  thought  he  heard  a  rustling  in  the  low  brush  where  a  creature  might  be,  getting  itself  settled  into  the  cool  grass  and  damp  earth  to  go  sleep  forever.  Someplace  out  on  the  lake  he  heard  a  young  girl's  voice,  very  distinctly,  laugh-  ing.  Then  a  car  door  closed  farther  away.  Then  another  sort  of  door,  a  screen  door,  slapped  shut.  And  a  man's  voice  saying  &quot;Oh  no,  oh-ho-ho-ho-ho,  no.&quot;  A  small  white  light  went  on  farther  back  in  the  trees,  where  Steven  had  not  known  there  was  a  house.  He  wondered  how  long  it  would  be  before  his  angry  feelings  stopped  mattering  to  him.  He  consid-  ered  briefly  why  Marjorie  would  admit  all  this  to  him  now.  It  seemed  so  odd.  Then  he  heard  his  own  car  start.  The  muffled-metal  diesel  sound  of  the  Mer-  cedes.  The  lights  came  smartly  on  and  disclosed  him.  Music  was  instantly  loud  inside.  He  turned  just  in  time  to  see  Marjorie's  pretty  face  illuminated,  as  his  own  had  been,  by  the  salmon  dash-  board  lights.  He  saw  the  tips  of  her  fingers  atop  the  arc  of  the  steering  wheel,  heard  the  sudden  surge  of  the  engine.  In  the  woods  to  the  west  he  no-  ticed  an  odd  glow  coming  through  the  trees,  something  yellow,  something  out  of  the  low,  wet  ground,  a  mist,  a  vapor,  something  that  might  be  magical.  The  air  smelled  sweet  now.  The  peepers  stopped  peeping.  And  then  that  was  all.    