    WATER  CHILD  BY  EDNWIDGE  DANTICAT     he  letter  came  on  the  first  of  the  month,  as  usual.  It  was  written,  as  most  of  them  were,  in  near-calligraphic  style,  in  indigo-blue  ink,  on  see-through  airmail  paper.  Ma  Chére  Nadine,  We  are  so  happy  to  have  this  occasion  to  put  pen  to  paper  to  write  to  you.  How  are  you?  All  is  well  with  us,  grace  a  Dieu,  except  your  father,  whose  health  is,  as  always,  unre-  liable.  Today  itis  his  knees.  Tomorrow  it  will  be  something  else.  You  know  how  it  is  when  you  are  old.  He  and  I  both  thank  you  for  the  money  you  sent  last  month.  We  know  itis  difficult  for  you,  but  we  are  grateful.  This  month  your  father  hopes  to  see  yet  another  doctor.  We  have  not  heard  your  voice  in  a  while  and  our  ears  ache  for  it.  Please  call  us.  She  signed  it,  &quot;Your  mother  and  father  who  embrace  you  very  tightly.&quot;  Three  weeks  had  gone  by  since  the  letter  arrived,  and  Nadine  still  hadn't  called.  She  had  raided  her  savings  to  wire  double  the  usual  amount  but  hadn't  84  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  II,  2000  called.  Instead  she  took  the  letter  out  each  day  as  she  ate  a  tuna  melt  for  lunch  in  the  hospital  cafeteria,  where  each  first  Friday  for  the  last  two  years  she  had  added  a  brownie  to  her  meal  for  sched-  uled  variety.  Every  time  she  read  the  letter,  she  tried  to  find  something  else  between  the  lines,  a  note  of  sympathy,  commisera-  tion,  condolence.  But  it  simply  wasn't  there.  The  more  time  went  by,  the  more  brittle  and  fragile  the  letter  became.  Each  time  she  held  the  paper  between  her  fingers  she  wondered  how  her  mother  had  not  torn  it  with  the  pen  she'd  used  to  compose  each  carefully  in-  scribed  word.  How  had  the  postal  work-  ers  in  both  Port-au-Prince  and  [REDACTED]  not  lacerated  the  thin  page  and  enve-  lope?  And  how  had  the  letter  not  turned  to  dust  while  rubbing  against  the  lining  of  the  left  pocket  of  her  nurse's  uniform  during  the  bus  ride  to  work?  Or  in  her     purse  in  her  locker,  in  the  artificial  heat  all  day  long?  She  carefully  folded  the  letter  once  again  and  replaced  it  in  her  purse  as  one  of  her  colleagues  approached  the  small  corner  table  by  the  window  that  she  oc-  cupied  in  solitude  for  a  whole  hour  each  working  day.  The  colleague,  Josette,  kissed  her  on  both  cheeks  while  fum-  bling  in  her  pocket  for  lunch  money.  As  Nadine's  lunch  hour  was  winding  down,  Josette's  was  just  beginning.  Nadine  smiled  both  at  Josette  and  to  herself  at  this  ability  of  Josette's  to  make  an  ordinary  encounter  feel  so  inti-  mate,  then  turned  her  face  to  the  view  outside,  to  the  brown  buildings  and  their  barred  windows,  coated  with  a  thin  sheet  of  early-January  frost.  She  let  her  eyes  linger  on  the  nursing  station  of  the  psych  .  ward  across  the  alley  and  entertained  a  $  vision  she  often  had  of  seeing  a  patient  &amp;  dive  out  of  one  of  the  windows.  Would  5  she  leap  out  of  her  chair,  run  to  the  ele-  vator,  down  to  the  alley  separating  the  two  buildings,  or  would  she  simply  sit  there  and  finish  the  last  quarter  glass  of  her  skim  milk  &quot;Ms.  Hinds  is  back  from  I.C.U.,&quot;  Josette  was  saying.  &quot;She's  so  sex?  about  not  being  able  to  talk  that  Dr.  Vega  had  togive  her  a  sedative.&quot;  Nadine  and  Josette  worked  both  ends  of  Ear,  Nose,  and  Throat  and  saw  many  post-op  patients  wake  up  bewildered  to  discover  that  their  total  laryngectomies  meant  that  they  would  no  longer  be  able  to  use  their  voices  to  communicate.  No  matter  how  the  doctors  and  nurses  pre-  pared  them,  it  was  still  a  shock.  Josette  always  gave  Nadine  a  report  on  the  patients  when  she  came  to  take  over  the  table.  She  was  one  of  the  youn-  ger  Haitian  R.N.s,  one  of  those  who  came  to  [REDACTED]  in  early  childhood  and  spoke  English  with  no  accent  at  all,  but  she  liked  to  throw  in  a  Creole  word  here  and  there  in  conversation  to  flaunt  her  origins.  Aside  from  the  brief  lunch  en-  counters,  and  times  when  one  or  the  other  needed  a  bit  of  extra  help  with  a  patient,  they  barely  spoke  at  all.  &quot;I  am  going  now,&quot;  Nadine  said,  rising  from  her  seat.  &quot;My  throne  is  yours.&quot;  When  she  returned  to  her  one-  bedroom  condo  in  Canarsie  that  evening,  Nadine  was  greeted  by  voices  from  the  large  television  set  that  she  kept  turned  on  twenty-four  hours  a  day.  Along  with  the  uneven  piles  of  newspa-  pers  and  magazines  scattered  between  the  fold-out  couch  and  the  floor-to-ceil-  ing  bookshelves  in  her  living  room,  the  television  was  her  way  of  bringing  voices  into  her  life  that  required  neither  reac-  tion  nor  response.  At  thirty-two,  she  had  tried  other  hobbies-jogging,  journal  writing,  drawing,  Internet  surfing-but  these  tasks  had  demanded  either  too  much  effort  or  too  much  superficial  in-  teraction  with  other  people.  She  took  off  the  white  sneakers  that  she  wore  at  work  and  remained  stand-  ing  to  watch  the  last  few  minutes  of  a  news  broadcast.  It  wasn't  until  a  game  show  had  begun  that  she  pressed  the  playback  button  on  her  beeping  answer-  ing  machine.  Her  one  message  was  from  Eric,  her  former  beau,  suitor,  lover,  the  near  father  of  her  nearly  born  child.  &quot;Alo,  allé,  hello,&quot;  he  stammered,  creat-  ing  his  own  odd  pauses  between  Creole,  French,  and  English,  like  the  electively  mute,  newly  arrived  immigrant  children  whose  worried  parents  brought  them  in  for  consultations,  even  though  there  was  nothing  wrong  with  their  vocal  cords.  &quot;Haven't  heard  from  you.&quot;  He  chose  English.  Long  pause.  &quot;O.K.  Bye.&quot;  Whenever  he  called  her  now,  which  was  about  once  a  month  since  their  breakup,  she  removed  the  microcas-  sette  from  the  answering  machine  and  placed  it  on  the  altar  she  had  erected  on  top  of  the  dresser  in  her  bedroom.  It  wasn't  anything  too  elaborate.  There  was  a  framed  drawing  that  she  had  made  of  a  cocoa-brown,  dewy-eyed  baby  that  could  as  easily  have  been  a  boy  as  a  girl,  the  plump  fleshy  cheeks  re-  sembling  hers  and  the  high  forehead  re-  sembling  his.  Next  to  the  plain  wooden  frame  were  a  dozen  now  dried  red  roses  that  Eric  had  bought  her  as  they'd  left  the  clinic  after  the  procedure.  She  had  once  read  about  a  shrine  to  unborn  chil-  dren  in  4a6170616e,  where  water  was  poured  over  little  altars  of  stone  to  honor  them,  so  she  had  filled  her  favorite  drinking  glass  with  water  and  a  small  pebble  and  had  added  thatto  her  own  shrine,  along  with  a  total  of  now  three  microcassettes  with  messages  from  Eric,  messages  she  had  never  returned.  That  night,  the  apartment  seemed  oddly  quiet  in  spite  of  the  TV  voices.  She  took  outher  mother's  letter  for  its  second  reading  of  the  day,  ran  her  fin-  gers  down  the  delicate  page,  and  reached  for  the  phone  to  dial  her  parents'  number.  She'd  almost  called  many  times  in  the  last  three  months  but  had  lost  her  nerve,  thinking  that  her  voice  might  betray  all  that  she  could  not  say.  She  nearly  dialled  the  whole  thing  this  time.  There  were  onlya  few  numbers  left  when  she  put  the  phone  down,  tore  the  letter  into  two,  then  four,  then  eight,  then  countless  pieces,  collapsed  among  her  old  maga-  zines  and  newspapers,  and  wept  quietly.  nother  letter  arrived  at  Nadine's  house  a  week  later.  It  was  on  the  same  kind  of  airmail  paper,  but  this  time  the  words  were  meticulously  typed.  The  &quot;as  and  &quot;o's,  which  had  been  struck  over  many  times,  created  underlayers,  shadows,  and  small  holes  within  the  vowels'  perimeters.  Ma  chére  Nadine,  Your  father  and  I  thank  you  very  much  for  theextra  money.  Your  father  used  it  to  see  a  doctor,  not  about  his  knees,  but  his  prostate  that  the  doctor  says  is  inflamed.  Not  to  worry,  he  was  given  some  medications  and  it  seems  as  if  he  will  be  fine  for  a  while.  All  the  tests  brought  us  short  for  the  monthly  ex-  penses,  but  we  will  manage.  We  would  like  so  much  to  talk  to  you.  We  wait  every  Sunday  afternoon,  hoping  that  you  will  return  to  our  beautiful  routine.  We  pray  that  we  have  not  abusedyour  generosity,  but  you  are  our  only  child  and  we  only  ask  for  what  we  need.  You  know  how  itis  when  you  are  old.  We  have  tried  to  call  you,  but  we  are  always  greeted  by  your  answering  machine.  In  any  case,  we  wait  to  hear  from  you.  Your  mother  and  father  who  embrace  you  tightly.  The  next  day,  Nadine  ignored  her  tunamelt  altogether  to  read  the  letter  over  many  times.  She  did  not  even  notice  the  lunch  hour  pass,  and  Josette  was  standing  over  her  at  the  table  sooner  than  she  expected.  Josette,  like  all  the  other  nurses,  knew  not  to  ask  any  questions  about  Nadine's  past,  present,  future,  or  her  international-looking  mail.  Word  cir-  culated  quickly  from  old  employees  to  new  arrivals  that  Nadine  Marie  Osnac  was  not  a  friendly  woman.  Anyone  who  had  sought  detailed  conversations  with  her,  or  who  had  shown  interest  in  sharing  the  table  while  she  was  sitting  there,  had  met  only  with  cold  silence  and  a  blank  stare  out  to  the  psych  ward,  where  the  winter  frost  was  still  clinging  to  the  window  bars.  Josette,  however,  still  occasionally  ventured  a  social  invitation,  since  they  wereboth  from  the  same  country  and  all.  &quot;Some  of  the  girls  are  going  to  the  city  after  work,&quot;  Josette  was  saying.  &quot;A  little  banboch  to  celebrate  Ms.  Hinds'  dis-  charge  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  Nadine  said,  departing  from  the  table  a  bit  more  abruptly  than  usual.  hat  same  afternoon,  Ms.  Hinds  began  throwing  things  across  her  small  private  room,  one  of  the  few  in  the  ward.  Nadine  nearly  took  a  flower  vase  in  the  face  as  she  rushed  in  to  help.  Un-  like  the  other  patients  in  the  ward,  Ms.  Hinds  was  a  nonsmoker.  She  was  also  much  younger-twenty-five  years  old.  When  Nadine  arrived,  Ms.  Hinds  was  thrashing  about  so  much  that  the  nurses,  worried  that  she  would  yank  out  the  metal  tube  inserted  in  her  neck  and  suf-  focate,  were  trying  to  pin  her  down  to  put  restraints  on  her  arms  and  legs.  Na- dine  quickly  joined  in  the  struggle,  as-  signing  herself  Ms.  Hinds'  right  arm,  pockmarked  from  months  of  I.V.s  in  hard-to-conquer  veins.  &quot;Where's  Dr.  Vega?&quot;  Josette  shouted  as  she  caught  one  of  Ms.  Hinds'  random  kicks  in  her  chest.  Nadine  lost  her  grip  on  the  I.  V.  arm.  She  was  looking  closely  at  Ms.  Hinds'  face,  her  eyes  tightly  shut  beneath  where  her  eyebrows  used  tobe,  her  thinner  lower  lip  protruding  defi-  antly  past  her  upper  one  as  though  she  were  preparing  to  spit  long  distance  in  a  contest,  her  whole  body  hairless  under  the  cerulean-blue  hospital  gown,  which  came  with  neither  a  bonnet  nor  a  hat  to  protect  her  now  completely  bald  head.  &quot;The  doctor's  on  his  way,&quot;  one  of  the  male  nurses  said.  He  had  a  firm  hold  of  Ms.  Hinds'  left  leg  but  could  notpin  it  down  to  the  bed  long  enough  to  re-  strain  it.  &quot;Leave  her  alone,&quot;  Nadine  finally  suggested  to  the  others.  They  all  looked  up  at  her  at  the  same  time,  their  own  exhaustion  and  frustra-  tion  forcing  them  to  release  Ms.  Hinds'  extremities.  One  by  one,  they  slipped  a  few  steps  back  to  protect  themselves.  With  her  need  to  struggle  suddenly  gone,  Ms.  Hinds  coiled  into  a  fetal  posi-  tion  and  sank  into  the  middle  of  the  bed.  &quot;Let  me  be  alone  with  her,&quot;  Nadine  said.  The  others  lingered  awhile,  as  if  not  wanting  to  leave,  but  they  had  other  pa-  tients  to  see  to,  so,  one  at  a  time,  they  backed  out  the  door.  &quot;Ms.  Hinds,  is  there  something  you  want  to  tell  us?&quot;  Nadine  lowered  the  bed  rail  to  give  Ms.  Hinds  a  limited  sense  of  freedom.  Ms.  Hinds  opened  her  mouth  wide,  trying  to  force  air  past  her  lips,  but  all  that  came  out  was  the  hiss  of  oxygen  and  mucus  filtering  through  the  tube  in  her  neck.  Nadine  looked  over  at  the  night  table,  where  there  should  have  been  a  padand  pen,  but  Ms.  Hinds  had  knocked  them  over  onto  the  floor  with  the  flower  ar-  rangements  and  magazines  her  parents  had  brought  for  her.  Nadine  walked  over  and  picked  up  the  pad  andpen  and  handed  them  to  Ms.  Hinds.  &quot;I  am  here,  Ms.  Hinds.  Go  ahead.&quot;  Ms.  Hinds  grabbed  the  pad  eagerly,  scribbled  down  a  few  quick  words,  then  held  it  up  for  Nadine  to  read.  At  first  Nadine  could  not  understand  the  hand-  writing.  It  was  unsteady  and  hurried  and  the  words  ran  together,  but  she  sounded  them  out,  one  at  a  time,  with  some  en-  couragement  from  Ms.  Hinds,  who  moved  her  head  a  few  inches  up  and  down  when  Nadine  guessed  correctly.  &quot;I  cannot  speak,&quot;  Nadine  made  out.  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  Nadine  said.  &quot;You  can-  not  express  yourself  the  way  you  used  to.&quot;  Ms.  Hinds  grabbed  the  pad  again  and  scribbled  another  sentence.  &quot;I  am  an  elementary  school  teacher.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Nadine  said.  &quot;wHY  ARE  THEY  SENDING  ME  HOME  LIKE  THIS&quot;  &quot;We  are  sending  you  home,&quot;  Nadine  said,  &quot;because  we  have  done  all  we  can  for  you  here.  Now  you  must  work  with  a  speech  therapist.  You  can  get  an  ar-  tificial  larynx,  a  voice  box.  There  are  many  options.  The  speech  therapist  will  help  you.&quot;  It  was  a  pep  talk  that  Nadine  hated  giving  to  the  patients,  the  &quot;you  will  make  it  after  all&quot;  talk.  hat  night  at  home,  Nadine  found  herself  more  exhausted  than  usual.  With  a  television  movie  as  white  noise,  she  dialled  Eric's  home  phone  num-  ber,  hoping  that  she  was  finally  ready  to  hear  his  voice  for  more  than  the  twenty-five  seconds  her  answering  ma-  chine  allowed.  His  wife  answered  the  phone,  and  to  avoid  initiating  a  conversation  Na-  dine  listened.  She  listened  to  the  many  &quot;Hellos  of  the  wife  and  she  listened  to  the  wife's  own  television  in  the  back-  ground,  which  was  on  a  different  channel  than  hers;  she  heard  something  drop,  maybe  a  dinner  plate  that  the  wife  was  picking  up  from  the  family  table  after  a  meal;  she  listened  to  a  young  child's  voice  scream,  &quot;Papi,  Papi,  Mommy  broke  something.&quot;  And  at  last  she  heard  Eric's  voice  growing  louder,  moving  closer  to  the  phone,  speaking  gently  to  his  wife  in  French,  &quot;Qwest-ce  gu'il  y  a,  chérie?&quot;  'Then  she  heard  the  transfer  from  the  wife's  breath  to  his,  and  she  hoped  that  perhaps  he  would  recognize  her  breathing  on  the  other  end  of  the  line,  but  he  said  his  own  series  of  &quot;Hellos  and  then  hung  up.  She  picked  up  the  phone  again  to  call  him  back  to  say  something  predictable  like  &quot;It  is  time  she  knew.&quot;  But  maybe   the  wife  already  knew.  So  she  decided  to  call  her  parents  instead.  Talking  to  them  always  made  her  wish  for  a  life  where  children  were  parented  even  after  they  had  married  and  moved  into  a  house  down  the  street.  Ten  years  ago  her  par-  ents  had  sold  everything  they  owned,  had  moved  from  what  passed  for  a  lower-middle-class  neighborhood  to  one  on  the  edge  of  a  slum,  in  order  to  send  her  to  nursing  school  abroad.  Ten  years  ago  she  had  dreamed  of  seeing  the  world,  of  making  her  own  way  in  it.  Ten  years  ago  she  had  desired  her  solitude  more  than  anything.  These  were  the  in-  tangibles  that  she  had  proposed  to  her  mother  the  seamstress  and  her  father  the  camion  driver  in  the  guise  of  a  nursing  career.  This  is  what  they  had  sacrificed  everything  for.  But  she  always  knew  that  she  would  repay  them.  And  she  had,  with  half  her  salary  every  month,  and  sometimes  more.  In  return  what  shegot  was  the  chance  to  parent  them  rather  than  have  them  parent  her.  Talking  to  them,  however,  always  made  her  wish  to  be  the  one  guarded,  rather  than  the  guardian,  to  be  reassured  now  and  then  that  some  wounds  could  heal,  that  some  decisions  would  not  haunt  her  forever.  &quot;Manman.&quot;  Her  voice  immediately  dropped  to  a  whisper  when  her  mother's  came  over  the  phone  line,  squealing  with  happiness.  &quot;Papa,  itis  Nadine.&quot;  For  every  decibel  Nadine's  voice  dropped,  her  mother's  rose.  &quot;My  love,  we  were  so  worried  about  you.  How  are  you?  We  were  so  worried.&quot;  &quot;I'm  fine,  Manman.&quot;  &quot;You  sound  cold.  You  sound  down.  We  have  to  start  planning  again  when  you  can  come  or  we  can  come  see  you,  as  soon  as  Papa  can  travel.&quot;  &quot;How  is  Papa?&quot;  &quot;He  is  right  here.  Let  me  put  him  on.  He  would  be  very  glad  to  speak  with  you.&quot;  ‘  Suddenly  her  father  was  on  the  phone,  his  tone  calmer,  but  excited  in  its  own  way.  &quot;We  were  waiting  so  long  for  this  call,  chérie.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  Papa.  I  am  sorry  I  haven't  called.&quot;  They  never  spoke  of  sad  and  difficult  things  during  these  phone  calls,  of  money  or  illnesses  or  doctors'  visits.  Papa  always  downplayed  his  aches  and  pains,  which  her  mother  would  detail  in  the  letters.  There  was  no  time  for  anything  but  joy.  Events  were  relayed  briefly,  a  list  of  accomplish-     ments,  no  discussion  of  failures  or  pain,  which  could  spoil  moods  for  days,  weeks,  and  months,  until  the  next  phone  call.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  boyfriend?&quot;  Her  mother  took  back  the  phone.  Nadine  could  imagine  her  skipping  around  their  living  room  like  a  child's  ball  bouncing.  &quot;Is  there  anyone  in  your  life?&quot;  &quot;I  have  to  go,  Manman.&quot;  &quot;So  soon?&quot;  &quot;I  work  early  tomorrow.  I  promise  I  will  call  again.&quot;  he  next  day,  Nadine  watched  as  Ms.  Hinds  packed  her  things  and  changed  into  a  bright-yellow  oversized  sweatsuit  and  matching  cap  while  wait-  ing  for  the  doctor  to  come  and  sign  her  discharge  papers.  &quot;My  mother  bought  me  this  hideous  outfit,&quot;  Ms.  Hinds  wrote  on  the  pad,  which  was  now  half  filled  with  words:  commands  to  the  nurses,  updates  to  her  parents  left  over  from  the  previous  afternoon's  visit.  Ms.  Hinds  climbed  up  on  the  bedside  closer  to  the  door,  her  bony  legs  dangling.  She  reached  up  and  stroked  the  protruding  tip  of  the  metal  tube  in  her  neck.  &quot;Is  someonecoming  for  you&quot;&quot;  Na-  dine  asked.  &quot;My  parents,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;Good,&quot;  Nadine  said.  &quot;The  doctor  will  be  here  soon.&quot;  Nadine  spent  half  her  lunch  hour  staring  at  the  barred  windows  on  the  brown  building  across  the  alley,  watching  the  psych  nurses  scribbling  in  charts  and  filing  them,  rushing  to  answer  sudden  calls  from  the  ward.  No  one  would  ever  get  past  the  wall  of  nurses  to  reach  the  window  and  dive  to  the  alley,  she  real-  ized,  unless  it  was  a  nurse  with  a  blow-  torch  and  a  death  wish.  Josette  walked  up  to  the  table  earlier  than  usual,  obviously  looking  for  her.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Nadine  asked.  &quot;Se  Ms.  Hinds,&quot;  said  Josette.  &quot;She    would  like  to  say  goodbye  to  you.&quot;  She  thought  of  asking  Josette  to  tell  Ms.  Hinds  that  she  could  not  be  found,  but  fearing  that  this  would  create  some  type  of  conspiratorial  camaraderie  be-  tween  them,  decided  against  it.  s.  Hinds  and  her  parents  were  waiting  by  the  elevator  bank  in  the  ward.  Ms.  Hinds  was  sitting  in  a  wheel-  chair  with  her  discharge  papers  and  a  white  plastic  bag  full  of  odds  and  ends  on  her  lap.  Her  father,  a  strapping,  hulking  man,  was  clutching  the  back  of  the  wheelchair  with  moist,  nervous  hands,  which  gripped  the  chair  more  tightly  for  fear  of  losing  hold.  The  mother,  a  plump,  fleshy  woman,  whose  height  nearly  matched  the  father's,  looked  as  though  she  were  fighting  back  cries,  tears,  a  tem-  pest  of  anger,  barters  with  God.  Instead  she  fussed,  trying  to  wrench  the  discharge  papers  and  the  white  plas-  tic  bag  from  her  daughter,  irritating  Ms.  Hinds,  who  raised  her  pad  from  be-  neath  the  pile  of  papers  and  scribbled  quickly,  &quot;Nurse  Osnac,  these  are  my  par-  ents,  Carole  and  Justin  Hinds.&quot;  Nadine  shook  each  parent's  hand  in  turn.  &quot;Glad  to  make  your  acquaintance,&quot;  said  the  father.  The  mother  said  nothing.  &quot;Thank  you  for  everything,&quot;  said  the  father.  &quot;Please  share  our  thanks  with  the  doctors,  the  other  nurses,  everyone.&quot;  The  elevator  doors  suddenly  opened  and  they  found  themselves  staring  at  the  bodies  that  filled  it  to  capacity-the  doc-  tors  and  nurses  travelling  between  floors,  the  walk-in  patients  from  floors  above  them,  the  visitors.  The  Hindses  let  the  doors  close  and  the  others  departed  without  them.  Ms.  Hinds  turned  to  an  empty  page  toward  the  back  of  her  pad  and  wrote,  |  &quot;Goodbye,  Nurse  Osnac.&quot;  &quot;Good  luck,&quot;  Nadine  said.  Another  elevator  opened.  There  were  fewer  people  in  it  this  time,  and  enough  room  for  all  the  Hindses  and  the  dis-  charge  nurse.  The  father  pushed  the  wheelchair,  which  jerked  forward,  nearly  dumping  Ms.  Hinds  face  first  into  the  elevator.  The  elevator  doors  closed  behind  them  sharply,  leaving  Nadine  alone  fac-  inga  distorted  reflection  of  herself  in  the  wide,  shiny  metal  surface.  She  thought  of  her  parents,  of  Eric,  of  the  pebble  in  the  water  glass  in  her  bedroom  at  home,  all  of  those  things  belonging  to  the  widened,  unrecognizable  woman  star-  ing  back  at  her  from  the  closed  doors.     