         EUROPEAN  WEDDING  Their  summer  of  flirting  had  led  them  here:  a  half-built,  downtown  clothing  store-a  construction  site-  that  had  been  walled  off  from  the  street  by  a  makeshift  bay  door  that  Rich  had  padlocked  from  the  inside.  It  was  seven  o'clock  at  night.  Rich  was  explaining  the  benefits  of  an  auxiliary  water  pump.  Nora  had  no  interest  in  an  auxiliary  water  pump.  Nobody  ever  did.  They  were  both  flush-faced.  The  summer  was  over.  Rich  had  to  fly  to  [REDACTED]  in  five  hours  to  get  married.  The  more  he  joked  with  Nora,  and  lied  to  her,  and  led  her  on,  the  more  protected  he  felt  from  the  unpleasant,  nauseating,  impending  up-  heaval  that  was  going  to  be  the  rest  of  his  life.  He'd  endured  weeks  of  pussified  BY  MATTHEY  KLAM  wedding-planning  crap-the  flowery  mailings,  the  drilling  and  re-enamelling  of  his  teeth,  the  facial  that  left  him  bleeding.  Why  was  getting  married  so  humiliating?  Nora  was  his  reward.  She  was  &quot;sweet,&quot;  and  she  &quot;adored&quot;  him.  She  had  the  demeanor  of  a  cooking  show  hostess  about  to  apologize  for  burning  the  turkey.  She  wore  a  brown  cashmere  cardigan,  a  short  skirt,  white  knee-high  socks.  She  sold  clothes  that  looked  like  that.  All  over  the  city,  preppy  but  sexy  was  in,  and  now  she  was  reno-  vating  the  store  from  scratch.  For  all  their  long  talks,  he  didn't  know  much  about  her.  (&quot;If  you're  so  into  mar-  rying  her,&quot;  she  asked  once,  &quot;why  do  you  call  me  every  night?&quot;)  Shewas  violently  allergic  to  nuts,  sheplayed  soccer  in  col-  lege.  He  couldn't  figure  out  how  old  she  was.  She  had  thick,  creamy  makeup,  and  a  face  that  shifted  quickly,  the  way  a  five-  year-old's  could,to  record  any  perceived  meanness.  Her  walk  was  jumbled,  stilted,  uneven  but  purposeful;  it  implied  a  hip  injury  from  childhood.  She  had  a  dozen  decisions  to  make  tonight  so  that  walls  could  go  up  next  week,  questions  about  the  louvered  mezzanine  windows,  the  plumbing;  questions  from  the  engi-  neer  about  acoustic  ceiling  tile.  Nora  was  his  only  client.  Nora's  hap-  piness  was  his  full-time  job.  &quot;You  like  working  with  me  because  I'm  lovable-because  you  love  me,&quot;  she  said  once.     Shehad  a  weirdly  shaped  head,  long  in  the  back,  which  haunted  him.  She  had  a  big  nose,  slightly  crooked,  and  re-  ally  good  perfume.  The  fact  that  she  wasn't  Gynnie,  the  woman  he  was  about  to  marry-the  wrongness  of  it-excited  him.  She  existed  apart  from  the  femi-  nine  regime  that  was  everywhere  around  him.  She  was  someone  else.  She  could  die  tomorrow;  he  didn't  care.  There  was  nobody  else  in  the  build-  ing.  They  were  talking  about  a  structural  column  that  would  go  where  they  were  standing-to  support  a  staircase  that  didn't  exist  yet-when  Nora  stomped  on  his  foot.  He  pushed  her.  She  laughed.  They  went  from  that  to,  like,  silence.  He  was  looking  at  her  big  lips,  so  nervous  he  had  flulike  symptoms.  It  was  there  for  the  taking.  God,  he  deserved  a  little  make-out  session.  Their  bodies  came  together  and  their  arms  went  around  each  other  with  such  excitement  and  relief  that  a  sobbing  noise  ora  grunt  got  stuck  in  her  throat.  She  tasted  like  cosmetic  powder.  He  felt  a  pressure,  from  her  mouth,  broad  and  forceful;  it  was  her  tongue  pressing  for-  ward,  and  he  tried  to  meet  it  with  his  but  it  pushed  his  out  of  the  way  and  came  deeper  into  his  mouth.  Her  tongue  was  difficult  to  make  room  for.  Was  this  sexy?  He  stood  back,  in  order  to  breathe,  pretending  to  smile,  to  free  himself  from  the  tongue  thing  she  just  did.  He  started  measuring  her  in  terms  of  his  fiancée;  he  couldn't  help  it.  He  noticed  she  was  a  lot  wider.  She  fell,  he  realized,  into  that  cat-  egory  of  women  who  are  not  actually  fat  but  big,  and  know  how  to  be  big-  their  hair  is  big,  and  they  know  how  to  dress  with  wide  belts.  She  had  a  curious  look  on  her  face-one  of  vacancy  and  desire-and  tiny  white  strings  of  opaque  spit  had  formed,  like  webs,  in  the  corners  of  her  mouth.  She  licked  her  lower  lip-  it  was  dry  and  pitted-and  then  grabbed  the  back  of  his  head,  jacked  it  toward  her,  and  threw  her  tongue  down  his  throat  like  a  waterlogged  sneaker.  He  stood,  impaled,  on  the  tongue  of  the  woman  who  employed  him.  She  was  his  only  client.  You  idiot,  idiot,  idiot.  Kissing  her  was  so  terrible  he  stopped  and  thought  of  what  to  do  next.  He  took  off  her  cardigan,  then  her  shirt.  Her  bra  was  sheer,  simple  lace  net-  ting,  with  no  decoration.  She  had  stretch  marks  at  the  top  of  her  chest,  and  goose  bumps  along  her  hairless  arms.  Amid  the  ammoniac  and  dusty  smell  of  glue  guns,  tar  sealant,  and  Sheetrock  dust,  there  was  something  else  coming  off  her;  he  thought  of  chickpeas  and  deodorant.  She  undid  her  skirt,  and  dropped  it.  She  came  forward  in  loafers  and  knee  socks  and  underwear-she  seemed  huge  now-making  goo-goo  eyes.  She  was  the  biggest  girl  who'd  ever  made  goo-  goo  eyes  at  him.  She  reached  out  and  pulled  on  his  nuts,  which  hurt.  He  took  off  her  bra.  Her  tits-fell  down.  He  tried  to  raise  one  up  to  normal  height,  where  it  had  been  in  the  bra,  and  then  he  tried  the  other.  Bloop.  She  looked  at  him,  her  sad  eyes  smiling.  And  then  she  stepped  back  and  lifted  one  leg  and  then  the  other,  humming  quietly,  and  he  realized  she  was  dancing.  Her  father  owned  the  only  other  project  Rich's  company  was  in  the  pro-  cess  of  constructing,  a  hundred-and-  twenty-five-million-dollar  deal  about  a  mile  from  here  involving  forty  subcon-     tractors  from  around  the  country-a  job  so  huge  that  Rich  had  been  relegated  to  underground  utilities.  He  wasn't  ina  po-  sition  to  push  her  away.  He  could  feel  the  vast  inexperience  of  a  woman  of  com-  plete  fragility,  shielded  by  her  wealth,  re-  actingto  his  withdrawal.  &quot;I'm  getting  married  in  three  days  and  you  are  disgusting&quot;  was  what  he  wanted  to  say.  &quot;Haven't  you  ever  just  goofed  around  a  little?  Why  don't  you  put  your  clothes  back  on?&quot;  &quot;My  darling,&quot;  she  said  to  him,  and  pulled  his  head  to  her  chest.  A  little  later,  they  were  on  the  floor;  she  was  mostly  on  the  concrete,  he  was  mostly  in  the  dirt,  trying  to  breathe  through  the  top  of  his  head.  How  long  could  this  go  on?  She  rode  against  his  nose,  getting  closer.  He  tried  to  zone  out,  and  pictured  himself  lying  on  a  beach  in  Rio,  eating  a  ripe  plum  over  and  over.  Gynnie  lay  beside  him,  in  a  bikini,  tugging  on  his  arm,  urging  him  to  finish  the  plum  so  they  could  get  out  of  here.  &quot;Hurry  up,  baby!&quot;  It  didn't  make  any  sense,  but  the  thought  of  her  saved  him.  In  reality,  she  had  no  idea  where  he  was,  and  when  she  found  out  she'd  dump  him  and  never  speak  to  him  again.  &quot;Arrghh!&quot;  Nora  yelled.  Rich  worried  that  a  passing  stroller,  a  cop,  a  homeless  person,  might  hear  them  and  rush  onto  the  site-arrest  them,  shoot  them,  beat  them  to  death  with  the  spade  beside  Nora's  writhing  head.  What  really  wor-  ried  Rich  was  the  sound  of  the  yelling  it-  self-a  lonely  yell,  from  a  woman  who  didn't  have  boyfriends,  who  would  have  to  be  satisfied  with  this  degraded  scene  for  months,  who  didn't  need  to  care  what  Rich  thought  of  her,  because  she  knew  they  wouldn't  be  calling  each  other  ever  again  except  with  a  catastrophic  problem  about  the  renovation.  At  the  end,  she  crammed  his  head  into  her  with  a  fear-  some  power,  her  body  like  a  vise,  and  yelled  and  yelled,  like  a  butcher  going  bust  in  a  poker  game,  and  he  felt  like  cry-  ing.  He  could've  thrown  up.  To  think  he'd  done  this  in  the  name  of  love,  in  the  name  of  freedom,  a  last  fling.  arly  the  next  morning,  in  a  French  village  in  the  shadow  of  a  nuclear  re-  actor,  Emile  Marcus  tried  to  buy  a  sand-  wich  for  the  long  rideto  the  Loire  Valley  village  of  Cravat  for  the  wedding.  He'd  recently  had  a  small  piece  of  his  throat   and  a  chunk  of  his  sinus  tissue  removed,  plus  part  of  his  upper  lip  (a  scar  ran  from  his  nostril  down  to  his  collarbone)-and,  sometimes,  even  now  as  he  spoke  to  a  mustached  teen-age  boy  behind  the  counter,  he  felt  it  impeded  his  speech.  The  boy  winced.  Emile  repeated  himself,  as  two  young  women  appeared  and  asked  for  the  very  same  sandwich  and  were  served.  He  spoke  a  third  time  as  another  patron  appeared  at  his  left.  Emile  was  staring  at  a  cutting  board  with  some  cheese  and  sliced  hard-boiled  egg.  Is  this  a  joke?  he  asked  himself.  He  saw  himself  at  the  age  of  this  idiot  tentatively  wield-  ing  a  baguette.  It  was  the  end  of  the  war,  and  Emile  had  survived  by  peddling  scorched  timber  and  pieces  ofbroken  furniture  for  firewood-he  remembered  how  badly  he'd  hoped  to  escape  Europe  after  the  war,  everything  bombed,  sewage  everywhere,  reeking.  It  had  been  a  time  of  particular  misery  for  people  like  him  with  even  a  drop  of  German  blood.  He  took  his  hands  out  of  his  pockets,  dropped  his  voice,  and  spoke  one  last  time,  slowly,  steadily,  raving,  leaning  into  it,  scaring  the  kid.  He  got  the  sandwich.  He  went  into  the  post  office  to  check  his  mail.  He  knew  how  to  stride  into  a  place,  so  people  noticed.  He  had  the  tall,  broad-shouldered  bearing  ofan  airline  pilot.  He  wore  aviator  sunglasses.  The  collar  of  his  shirt  was  turned  up,  and  he  wore  a  fine  piece  of  fisherman's  netting  as  a  scarf.  He  had  swept-back  hair,  a  cor-  -Robert  Mazzocco  duroy  shirt,  linen  shorts,  varicose  veins  on  his  legs,  and  purple  feet.  He  drove  a  car  that  smelled  like  sweat  with  a  wooden  steering  wheel-cracked  and  yellow  and  splintering,  like  his  teeth.  He  had  some  clothes  in  a  train  case,  the  sandwich,  two  cameras  in  a  small  silver  valise  in  the  back  seat;  in  the  coming  days,  if  he  became  too  disgusted,  he  could  go  off  and  photo-  graph  something  beautiful,  a  portrait  worth  money  that  he  would  gladly  give  away  to  his  American  &quot;niece,&quot;  Gynnie.  For  some  reason,  the  announcement  of  the  wedding  had  driven  him  nuts  with-what?  jealousy?  Not  exactly.  He  absolutely  would  not  be  able  to  miss  this,  but  wanted  to  know  why  he  cared  so  much.  Ever  since  Gynnie's  mother,  Mar-  tina,  called  him,  he'd  been  toting  up  his  life,  with  the  excuse  that  he  was  trying  to  calculate  how  much  he  could  afford  to  send  as  a  wedding  gift,  but  eachtime  he  reached  the  end  of  the  tally,  hefound  himself  in  the  basement  handling  his  old  rifle,  wondering  if  it  still  worked,  thinking  about  shooting  himself.  But  why?  Gynniewas  a  good  girl;  she'd  al-  ways  been  in  his  heart  despite  the  miles  between  them;  he'd  saved  the  sweet,  empty  letters  she'd  sent  over  years;  he'd  showered  her  with  the  dresses  and  jew-  elry  he  picked  up  on  photo  shoots;  Mar-  tina  kept  him  updated  on  her  struggles.  He  thought  of  her  always  with  a  smile.  Also,  she  was  quite  possibly  the  prod-  uct  of  his  own  testicles.  The  idea  made  him  lonely,  which  made  him  hungry,  and  he  looked  at  the  sandwich.  If  he  ate  here  at  the  wheel,  he  realized,  he  would  get  crumbs  on  his  pants.  He'd  sent  a  large  check  to  Gynnie-  this  was  money  he  needed  to  live  on-  partly  out  of  guilt,  partly  out  of  longing  to  be  included,  partly  hoping  she'd  spend  the  money  on  the  ceremony  and  push  it  over  the  edge  into  a  freak  spectacle  of  empty  American  pomposity,  that  she'd  ruin  it.  He  owned  one  black  suit,  but  noticed,  while  packing,  that  it  looked  all  wrong-  the  top  and  bottom  were  two  different  blacks.  After  forty  years  as  a  photogra-  pher,  he  knew  colors  of  clothing,  but  somehow  he'd  lost  track,  coming  and  going  from  that  little  dump  above  a  dark  room  he  slept  in  on  his  visits  to  [REDACTED],  now  that  he  no  longer  had  his  own  place  there.  On  the  road  leading  out  of  town,  a  paper  bag  flew  up  onto  Emile's  wind-  shield,  wedged  itself  under  the  wiper,  and  stayed.  He  drove  like  that  for  the  next  four  hours.  Rich  drove  through  the  rain  to  the  airport.  He  was  thinking,  rubbing  his  jaw,  I  did  not  lie  on  the  floor  with  her,  did  not  wear  out  my  tongue,  did  not  promise  more  of  that  loving  treatment.  The  women  had  gone  first.  Rich's  mom,  her  sisters  (four  of  them),  the  many  girl  cousins  he'd  grown  up  with,  his  two  beautiful  younger  sisters,  whom  he  loved-they  were  all  alreadyin  [REDACTED].  For  weeks  the  E-mails  of  the  women  in  his  family  had  been  filled  with  endless  logistics-ways  to  dodge  frequent-flyer  blackouts,  how  to  wear  the  same  outfit  over  and  over,  which  underpants  you  can  buy  in  [REDACTED]  that  they  don't  sell  at  Saks.  There  were  fights  about  who  snored  too  loud  to  share  a  hotel  room,  about  how  beautiful  Rich  had  looked  as  a  baby,  about  pets:  &quot;If  she  brings  Selma,  I  bring  Fluffy.&quot;  When  Rich  couldn't  take  it  any-  more,  he  put  them  in  touch  with  Martina,  on-line,  and  Martina's  Italian,  French,  Swiss,  German,  and  Spanish  aunts,  cousins,  and  nieces  joined  in,  offering  ideas  to  their  future  in-laws  from  the  States,  all  using  third-grade  English,  so  that  the  E-mail  traffic  became  a  wonder-  ful  if  somewhat  cryptic  source  of  vine-  yard-stinky-cheese-chiteau-barge-tour-  lakeside-yoga-nostril-breathing-retreat  suggestions.  (During  the  Second  World  War,  Gynnie's  mom's  family  had  got  104  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  8,  2000  bombed  out  of  their  home  town,  near  [REDACTED].  Now  they  hated  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  They'd  become  anti-  nationalist,  anti-capitalist  missionaries.  They'd  become  shrinks  and  painters.  For  some  reason,  there  were  no  men  breath-  ing  in  that  group.  The  men  of  Gynnie's  family  were  all  in  the  ground.)  Before  Rich  even  saw  the  French  chateau  Mar-  tina  had  been  rebuilding,  by  hand,  alone,  with  her  dead  husband's  money-be-  fore  he  stepped  across  her  front  yard  of  Roman  ruins  in  Cravat-eighteen  girls  and  women,  soon-to-be  in-laws  who  had  dusted  off  their  high-school  accents  across  seven  languages,  were  already  falling  in  love  in  their  nightgowns.  When  Rich  phoned  Gynnie  from  the  airport,  he  heard  his  mother  in  the  background,  try-  ing  to  clear  her  throat,  that  noise  indicat-  ing  rising  excitement.  hat  night,  Gynnie  had  taken  a  boat  ride  down  the  &quot;Low-  arr'-that  was  how  his  mother  pro-  nounced  it-and  they  were  all  still  dizzy.  Motoring  into  the  sunset,  they'd  revelled  in  the  colossal  mistake  the  men  were  making  by  coming  later.  Rich  was  taking  the  last  flight  out  tonight,  Wednesday,  to  arrive  Thursday.  His  brother  and  father  and  best  man  had  let  him  know  that  the  less  time  they  spent  in  [REDACTED]  the  better  (&quot;Faggoty,  Euro  bullshit&quot;).  None  of  them  knew  French.  They  weren't  interested.  They  did  what  men  in  Rich's  family  did  when  they  didn't  like  the  odds  against  them:  made  fun  of  it  and  gave  up.  They'd  be  there  by  dinnertime  on  Friday.  Rich's  plane  thumped  through  the  clouds  and  rain  as  a  hurricane  twice  the  length  of  [REDACTED]  moved  steadily  into  the  East  Coast;  it  wastwo  hundred  miles  off  [REDACTED].  Four  hours  from  now,  a  stretch  from  [REDACTED]  to  St.  Au-  gustine  would  be  in  it.  He  remembered  the  fancy  engage-  ment  party  that  had  been  thrown  in  honor  of  the  bride-  and  groom-to-be.  He'd  been  so  proud  of  Gynnie,  and,  while  everyone  was  tripping  over  each  other  in  their  tuxes  and  long  dresses,  trying  to  be  charming,  Rich  wondered  lazily  to  him-  self  about  their  future  together-the  sub-     tle  closeness  they  now  enjoyed,  the  fuzzy  blurring  that  washes  over  the  person  you  have  sex  with  all  the  time,  the  need  you  feel  to  have  her  beside  you.  But  then,  af-  ter  the  first  twenty  minutes,  he'd  stopped  talking  to  Gynnie.  He  didn't  know  why  (though,  sometimes,  in  front  of  people,  she  went  into  chatty  cuckoo  mode-  &quot;This  is  the  most  amazing  night  of  my  entire  life.  I  love  everyone!&quot;).  He  wanted  to  kick  back,  because  he  felt  like  it,  that  was  all,  and  he  drank  and  smoked  ciga-  rettes  and  pot,  and  kept  moving,  walking  out  of  a  room  when  she  walked  in,  mocking  her  in  front  of  her  own  boss  for  the  sycophantic  way  she  kept  repeat-  ing  his  name  (&quot;Richie,  I'd  like  you  to  meet  ..  .&quot;).  He  only  mocked  her  in  a  playful  spirit,  a  way  of  loosening  up  the  party,  but  it  didn't  work,  and  in  the  car  on  the  way  home  she  screamed  and  swung  at  him,  scratching  his  cornea!-  and,  as  he  pulled  the  car  over,  she  tried  to  kick  him.  She  was  a  small  person  and  he'd  hoped  to  bully  her.  That  hadn't  worked.  He  drove  home  with  the  other  eye,  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  summer  pre-ejaculating,  scared.  It  seemed  like  a  proximity  issue.  Everything  was  changing  so  fast.  He'd  tried  to  keep  some  distance  between  the  two  of  them,  in  order  to  slow  things  down.  Which  was  like  trying  to  stop  a  bullet  with  a  chocolate-chip  cookie.  Rich  was  trying  to  get  to  know  her  better,  because  now  he  was  marrying  her,  but  of  course  he  couldn't  know  her,  be-  cause  now  he  was  her,  he  was  turning  into  a  short  lady  with  skirts  and  buckled  shoes,  a  hundred  and  eleven  pounds,  try-  ing  to  keep  it  under  control.  It  wasn't  her  fault,  it  wasn't  his  fault,  it  was  both  of  them.  The  skin  under  her  armpits  broke  out  from  his  cheap  CVS  lotion;  her  right  hip  was  sore  from  screwing;  her  leg  became  shorter;  then  her  left  knee  and  ankle  went  wrong  because  of  her  leg.  See?  By  his  need  for  sex,  he'd  sprained  a  muscle  on  her  hip  sothat  her  best  shoes  were  now  defunct.  She  could  no  longer  go  to  the  gym,  she  could  no  longer  do  African  dance,  she  could  no  longer  eat  turkey  sausages  because  they  gave  her  gas.  &quot;Boys  eat  that  stuff.&quot;  She  dropped  so  much  weight  her  ass  wrin-  kled.  He  sharedher  pain.  He  slept  in  a  push-up  position.  He  was  atrophying,  moving  as  if  his  feet  had  been  burned,  in  a  shortened  stride,  like  Dr.  Locascio,  his      dental  surgeon.  She  was  walking  like  Barney  the  purple  dinosaur:  empty  smile,  her  hands  clasped  in  front  of  her.  Gynnje  lay  awake,  thinking  of  dif-  ferent,  odd  moments  in  her  life.  The  funny  gym  suit  she  wore  in  fourth  grade-she  unzipped  it  to  go  to  the  bathroom  and  the  top  fell  in  the  toilet.  Sniffing  glue  at  her  friend  Dina  Whitti-  comb's  Halloween  party,  the  night  after  her  brotherdied  (it  took  away  her  sad-  ness).  The  mugging  on  110th  Street,  when  she  was  at  Barnard.  The  morning  of  the  T.W.A.  bombing-after  she'd  at-  tended  an  emergency  meeting  at  Lang-  ley,  then  left  work  with  a  urinary  infec-  tion  and  peed  on  the  floor  of  a  grocery  store.  She'd  only  peed  a  single  drop.  The  grocery  store  was  on  P  Street!  The  room  was  egg-yolk  color  with  fake-marble  red  streaks,  veins.  This  was  &quot;Gynnie's  room.&quot;  Of  course  it  wasn't  her  room-she  had  no  plans  to  come  back  here  ever  again  in  her  life.  She  didn't  know  what  time  it  was;  there  was  no  clock.  It  was  typical  of  her  mother  that  she'd  been  able  to  trick  Gynnie  into  marrying  Rich  in  a  house  she'd  never  been  in,  in  a  country  she  didn't  know  anything  about,  her  mother's  &quot;homeland.&quot;  Why  couldn't  she  get  mar-  ried  in  the  perfectly  nice  house  in  Win-  netka,  where  she'd  actually  grown  up?  She  never  knew  her  mother  spoke  F  ‘MANCE     &quot;Fe)  German,  Swiss,  and  Dutch,  on  top  of  French.  She  didn't  know  her  mother  was  descended  from  acount.  She  didn't  know  her  mother's  family  owned  metal-  machining  and  ball-bearing  factories  in  [REDACTED]  during  the  war.  These  last  few  days,  drowning  in  a  sea  of  foreign  aun-  ties  with  all  their  amazing  stories,  had  been-whatever.  She  didn't  know  her  mother  lived  in  a  stable  after  the  war,  didn't  know  her  father  was  blind  in  one  eye;  she'd  never  met  him.  Nobody  ever  told  her  anything.  In  regular  life,  you  could  go  off  and  figure  things  out,  major  things;  she  knew  what  recommenda-  tions  to  make  to  her  boss  at  the  Depart-  ment  of  State  about  events  developing  around  the  globe,  how  to  respond  to  Su-  danese  maniacs,  wreaking  havoc  on  their  own  countrymen;  she  knew  that  when  three  thousand  boysturned  up  in  the  desert  with  kwashiorkor  from  eating  leaves  after  being  hunted  all  winter,  it  was  time  to  make  her  case,  beg  for  a  [REDACTED]  Naval  presence  offthe  coast  of  [REDACTED].  These  were  things  she  could  grasp.  But  here  she  was  sitting  in  fucking  [REDACTED],  and  she  didn't  know  what  time  it  was,  had  never  got  the  woman  on  the  phone  who  promised  to  do  her  hair  Sat-  urday,  barely  spoke  the  language,  and  there  was  no  one  here  to  marry  anyway.  Two  days  before  her  weddingwas  not  the  time  to  be  in  an  awful  mood.  Gynnie  stretched  and  thought  about  her  former  _&lt;  44  Ck  /./?  boyfriends,  how  each  of  their  lives  had  improved  during  her  tenure,  and  gone  right  downhill  again  after  the  breakup:  one  more  reason  to  believe  that  Rich  was  the  one-his  life  had  not  improved  at  all  since  they  met.  She  had  to  admit  she  loved  him  the  most.  No  one  came  close.  She  believed  all  the  corny  stuff  about  marriage,  and  it  gave  her  stability  to  be-  Leve  it.  This  was  the  beginning  of  mind-  blowing  time,  of  a  new  life,  everything  was  possible.  She'd  have  different  hair,  shorter,  parted  on  the  side  but  really  fluffed  up  so  that  it  bounced  more-her  hair  was  so  much  better  cut  short.  Which  explained  everything  that  had  evaded  her  to  this  day:  she  might  have  been  Clinton's  first  female  deputy  direc-  tor  of  communications  if  she  hadn't  had  that  long,  beat,  flat,  Fiona  Apple  hair  in  the  interview.  Her  old  haircut  was  part  of  her  sorrow  this  morning.  If  only  she'd  had  this  new  fluffy  haircut  before-a  person  ought  to  be  given  more  than  one  big  chance  in  life.  ich  made  his  way  past  vineyards,  along  the  Loire,  across  a  broad,  fer-  tile  plain.  Two  hours  south  of  [REDACTED]  he  looked  up  and  saw  a  tiny  hilltop  village.  Among  the  trees  stood  an  enormous  chiteau  owned  by  a  famous  Champagne  family.  Beside  it,  one  small,  black  spire  jabbed  up  at  the  sky-Gynnie's  mother's  house.  The  road  corkscrewed  around  the  hilltop  through  narrow  streets  crowded  with  tourists  drinking  outdoors,  riding  motorbikes,  dressed  in  soccer  jerseys,  taking  photos.  It  was  a  romantic  place-an  old  chateau,  tilting  down  the  hill,  made  of  sand-colored  stucco,  with  climbing  wis-  teria,  a  birdbath  entwined  by  roses,  a  rusted  scythe,  an  old  woman  staring  out  hersecond-story  window  across  the  street,  the  oaken  smell  of  burning  twigs  in  the  vineyard  nearby.  And  there  they  were:  the  women.  Their  faces,  their  hunger,  you  could  see  it  in  their  eyes,  the  wedding-bell  crap,  a  whole  life  of  internally  wired  excite-  ment.  They  were  waiting  for  Rich,look-  ing  like  they  wanted  to  eat  him.  All  the  girls  and  women  who'd  been  in  his  life  forever  were  moving  toward  him  even  beforethe  car  came  to  a  stop,  grabbing  and  kissing  him.  There  were  his  many  aunts  and  cousins-he  had  nine  girl    cousins,  and  seven  were  here  with  their  mothers.  His  sweet  little  sister  appeared,  Connie,  who  ran  out  the  door,  arms  flung  open,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;I  have  always  loved  you  uncontrollably,  we  are  in  a  strange  place,  you  and  me.  Hold  me.&quot;  Then  his  other  little  sister,  Jenny,  ranout  the  door,  andhe  did  the  same  thing  with  her.  Everyone  was  wearing  lip  gloss.  Some  pretty  girls  with  long  hair  ap-  peared,  speaking  something  other  than  English,  pulling  athis  bags,  falling  down.  The  other  women  smiled  at  their  clowning.  Like  girls  in  a  dormitory  who  hadbegun  menstruating  together,  the  group  was  operating  through  some  kind  of  primal  communication.  He  hugged  his  mother.  Mommy,  where  am  I?  he  wanted  to  say.  Neither  of  them  could  speak.  Sheseemed  ashamed  and  agitated.  Staring  at  her,  Rich  sud-  denly  remembered  his  dream  from  hours  earlier  on  the  airplane;  he'd  slept  soundly,  and  not  until  this  instant-not  after  waking,  not  while  driving-had  this  wild,  foggy,  sweet  dream  from  the  plane  come  back  to  him,  of  screwing  his  mother.  &quot;I  can't  believe  it's  you,  Mom,&quot;  he  kept  saying  in  the  dream,  but  it  was  her,  and  it  was  impossibly  good.  The  image  of  it  stung  him,  and  he  froze,  baf-  fled,  and  forced  it  from  his  mind.  He  asked  where  Gynnie  was,  and  ten  people  said  at  once  that  she  was  napping  and  not  to  wake  her.  Rich  shook  hands  with  Emile  Mar-  cus-the  only  other  man  in  this  place.  Emile's  hand  was  big  and  warm,  weath-  ered  smooth,  like  a  baseball  mitt  left  in  the  sun.  Emile  said  something  Rich  couldn't  understand.  After  fifteen  min-  utes  of  greetings,  Rich's  mother  and  his  sisters  moved  him  toward  thehouse.  His  mother  said  she'd  bewearing  all  black  for  the  wedding,  and  wondered  if  that  pleased  him.  She  began  describing  the  dress.  He  looked  across  the  old  sloping  rooftops  of  the  town,  the  cobblestone  streets,  out  onto  the  valley,  and  felt  like  he  was  in  a  Three  Musketeers  movie.  ynnie  lay  on  the  bed,  propped  up,  reading  Shape  magazine.  On  her  ar-  rival  in  [REDACTED],  she  stopped  at  a  department,  store  makeup  counter,  and  since  then  had  been  doing  an  Asian  thing  with  her  look.  Hair  pulled  up  tightly  in  barrettes  so  her  eyes  narrowed  like  an  Eskimo's,  eyeliner  pencil,  short  kimono  robe.  She  made  no  move  to  get  up,  and  said  hello  in  a  whisper.  Rich  leaned  over  and  hugged  her.  He  could  feel  her  warm  body  through  the  kimono.  Her  toenails  were  painted  to  match  theeye  shadow.  She  smelled  like  flowers;  he  smelled  like  B.0O.  He  was  too  tired  to  shower.  Transi-  tion  to  a  French  person  complete.  Rich  unzipped  his  suitcase.  &quot;'That's  your  side  of  the  room,  those  are  your  drawers,&quot;  she  said.  Rich  pulled  out  some  clothes  and  looked  at  them.  &quot;Why  are  we  doing  this?&quot;  he  said.  She  sighed,  spent.  &quot;Why?&quot;  Did  she  have  to  answer  this  question  for  him,  too?  &quot;Because  we're  desperate  and  we're  lonely  and  nothing  better  came  along.&quot;  She  felt  small  and  tired  and  afraid.  &quot;Your're  all  I've  got  now,  and  you'd  better  get  used  to  it.  We're  on  the  grownup  train,  and  we  don't  getoff  until  the  graveyard.&quot;  Rich  held  up  his  folded  shirts.  He  said  he  was  talking  about  the  clothes.  As  in,  &quot;Why  not  leave  them  in  the  suit-  case  and  forget  the  dresser?&quot;  Gynnie  moved  to  a  chair  in  the  cor-  |  ner  and  opened  a  book  on  French  castles.  Shewas  breathing  with  so  much  diffi-  culty-so  shallowly,  so  infrequently-  that  she  looked  like  she  was  suspended  in  formaldehyde.  At  home,  over  the  last  six  months,  when  she  felt  bad,  her  mind  had  travelled  to  French  castles,  to  the  French  Language  Institute  classes  she  never  made  because  of  work,  to  the  tapes  she  didn't  listen  toin  the  car,  to  the  pho-  tographs  of  this  house  and  yard.  In  the  hallucination,  she  slipped  sidewise  into  the  postcard-perfect  photo  she  kept  in  her  Filofax,  met  farmers  who  wore  weathered  berets  made  of  beaver  pelts,  and  told  stories  of  Martina  as  a  girl  jumping  in  haystacks,  never  mentioned  the  bombing  raids,  gang  rapes  by  Rus-  sian  soldiers,  Hitler's  need  for  steel  ball  bearings.  Now,  actually  being  here  in  [REDACTED],  where  could  she  imagine  herself  ?  Out  back,  Rich's  mother  and  Mar-  tina  were  standing  together,  arms  folded,  contemplative.  They  were  consid-  ering  what  might  jazz  up  the  ceremony,  using  their  advanced  degrees  in,  respec-  tively,  the  Bala  Institute's  Fire  and  Water  Six-Week  Breathing  Course  and  con-  temporary  American  art.  Rich's  mother  suggested  taking  what  appeared  to  be  a  small  broom,  made  out  of  sage,  lighting  it,  and  as  it  smoldered  swinging  it  over-  head-it  was  a  Native  American  tra-  dition-in  a  light,  swaying,nineteen-  forties  Camp-Hialeah-Gitchee-Goomee  hula  style,  across  the  entire  wedding  party,  to  cleanse  them  psychically.  Gynnie  came  out  with  sunglasses  on  and  sat  by  the  wall  with  her  feet  up  on  a  paint  can,  checking  her  pedicure.  In  the  sunlight,  Rich  thought  she  looked  like  she  needed  a  blood  transfusion.  Since  he'd  stepped  outside,  he'd  picked  up  on  a  distinct  earthy  smell  that  re-  minded  him  of  semen.  Rich's  mother  walked  over  and  said,  &quot;Do  you  want  to  eat  the  best  cookie  you  ever  had  in  your  life?&quot;  She  stared  into  his  face  for  a  long  second  and  grabbed  it  and  kissed  him  on  the  mouth.  She  said  he  was  a  &quot;beautiful,  lovely  boy.&quot;  Rich  said,  &quot;What  the  heck  is  that  smell?&quot;  &quot;It's  the  tree,&quot;  his  aunt  Patti  said.  It  had  long  green  flowers  that  looked  like  peapods.  He  watched  it  shake  in  the  breeze  as  people  walked  around  the  corner  to  the  patio  for  lunch.  He  sat  beneath  the  tree  on  a  long  bench;  it  was  a  pew  of  some  fine  hard  wood  that  had  been  left  out  in  the  rain  for  centuries.  Everything  in  the  yard  was  like  this:  old,  alive,  in  use.  He  sat  won-  dering,  as  he  heard  his  mother  and  aunts  and  cousins  talking  in  loud,  terrible  French,  how  the  events  of  his  life  had  led  him  to  this  pew,  as  if  he'd  had  even  the  smallest  role  in  getting  himself  here.  mile  Marcus  walked  out,  wearing  swim  trunks.  Rich,  sitting  beneath  the  tree  that  smelled  like  semen,  was  overjoyed  to  have  another  man  here.  He  pointed  out  the  view.  Emile  walked  over  with  a  wide,  stiff  gait,  and  sat  down  on  the  pew.  &quot;Everything  is  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.&quot;  Rich  smiled  pathetically.  You  needed  a  little  bit  of  swagger  if  you  were  going  to  embark  on  a  real  voy-  age,  Emile  thought;  there  wasno  swag-  ger,  no  courage  showing  in  this  kid.  He  tried  some  local  wisdom,  spoken  slowly,  so  even  an  American  could  understand:  &quot;La  moor  ay  con  meestair  shee-ont.&quot;  Which  meant,  &quot;Love  is  a  stinking  mystery.&quot;  Rich  said,  &quot;'The  what?&quot;  Emile  was  still  silently  distressed  over  108  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  8,  2000  that  other  mystery  of  love.  Was  Gynnie  his  daughter?  The  question  pricked  him  constantly  now  that  he  was  here.  That  summer,  Martina  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  with  her  cancerous  husband,  and  they  stayed  in  Emile's  bed.  He  and  Martina  went  to  art  museums,  leaving  the  dying  man  behind,  walked  everywhere,  cooked;  he  made  portraits  of  her;  on  the  last  night  of  her  visit  she  tiptoed  down-  stairs  and  tried  to  steal  the  window  fan  beside  him  to  cure  the  stifling  heat.  In  the  shock  of  the  moment,  he  confessed  his  true  feelings.  Maybe  she  had  sex  with  him  for  the  fan.  Maybe  she  gave  in  to  him  because  he  loved  her,  because  her  husband  was  croaking,  because  she  needed  a  good  screwing,  andhe  let  her  have  it  with  no  expectation  of  any  love  in  return.  He  was  pretty  sure  he'd  &quot;seeded  the  soil,&quot;  butthen  became  furious  at  her  for  the  vague,  obnoxious  shrugs,  when  he'd  politely  demanded  to  know,  in  let-  ters,  or  while  visiting  the  States,  even  standing  on  this  very  spot  this  morning.  &quot;Tell  me  who  I  am,&quot;  he  said  to  her.  &quot;I  need  to  know.&quot;  &quot;Oh  please,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're  ridicu-  lous.&quot;  She  made  him  feel  like  garbage.  Sit-  ting  beside  Rich,  Emile  realized  he  had  been  crying  all  his  life.  It  was  all  because  of  a  woman.  The  woman  is  the  worst  creature  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  &quot;We  get  drunk  tonight,&quot;  Emile  said.  Rich  said,  &quot;O.K.&quot;  &quot;You  love  her?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  Emile  said,  &quot;I  give  you  one  advice:  Try  to  fuck  her  as  much  as  you  can.&quot;  yonie  sat  at  the  long  table  beside  her  cousin  Chantal,  who  nursed  her  son,  Jean-Louis.  Jean-Louis  was  three  years  old.  Gynnie  asked  Chan-  tal,  &quot;Does  that  ever  hurt?&quot;  Chantal  spoke  through  her  sixteen-  year-old  cousin,  Elena,  a  deeply  tanned  girl  with  wide-set  eyes  and  an  awk-  wardly  bulging  nose,  wearing  a  red  bikini.  &quot;First  time,  she  cried.  He's  biting.  But  then  her  body  feels  good.&quot;  Chantal's  mother-in-law,  Marie,  across  the  table,  glanced  up,  her  mouth  full  of  food,  and  said,  &quot;She  like  it,&quot;  and  went  back  to  eating.  Chantal  smiled  and  said,  &quot;So.&quot;  She  patted  her  baby's  hair.  He  lay  there,  squeezing  her  breast  like  a  rub-  ber  horn  bulb,  a  little  bit  of  milk  on  his  face,  staring  at  the  women  at  the  table,  looking  at  him.  Gynnie  pointed  at  his  head  and  said,  &quot;I  want  one  of  those.&quot;  She  hadn't  touched  any  food  herself,  and  when  Marie  looked  up  again  and  said,  &quot;Bride,  eat,&quot;  and  drummed  Gyn-  nie's  plate  with  her  dirty  fork,  Gynnie  said,  &quot;You're  all  so  kind  to  worry  about  me,&quot;  and  then  thought,  Fuck  you,  cow.  Everyone  thinks  I'm  an  idiot.  Rich  came  over  and  sat  between  Gyn-  nie  and  Chantal;  he  took  some  knock-  wurst  and  bread.  Gynnie  wished  he'd  sat  somewhere  else.  When  he  reached  across  her,  his  armpit  smelled.  She  wished  he  were  staying  at  the  neighbor's.  He  belonged  here,  in  the  bride's  mother's  house,  less  than  anyone.  She  said,  &quot;You  smell.&quot;  He  said  he  knew.  Shewatched  him  shove  down  a  knockwurst.  Gynnie  ate  yogurt,  the  best  yogurt  she'd  eaten  in  her  life.  She  ate  piaté  with  capers  on  black  bread,  and  salami  and  croissants  and  jelly  and  cake,  and  drank  halfa  pot  of  espresso,  until  she  could  feel  it  coming  out  her  eyeballs,  and  then  she  went  into  the  bathroom  in  their  yellow  bedroom  and  threw  up,  and  cleaned  the  toilet  and  put  on  the  old  maroon  terry-  cloth  robe  that  had  been  her  mother's  for  twenty  years  and  lay  down  on  the  floor  beside  the  bathtub  that  had  been  crammed  into  the  alcove  next  to  the  linen  closet  and  cried.  Rich,  meanwhile,  cut  himself  more  knockwurst.  He  was  disturbed  by  Chan-  tal's  son;  he  couldn't  recall  ever  having  seen  a  child  with  the  ability  to  speak  while  still  nursing.  The  three-year-old  stared  at  Rich,  drunkenly.  Around  the  table,  they  were  speaking  Italian,  Dutch,  Swiss-German,  French,  eating  choco-  late  and  fruit,  drinking  black  coffee,  smoking.  Connie  and  two  of  his  older  cousins  had  been  to  Annick  Goutal,  in  [REDACTED],  and  they  smelled  of  flowers  and  fruit.  The  Swiss  girls,  Lily  and  Jose-  phine,  were  braiding  each  other's  hair.  Chantal's  face  had  a  look  of  infantile  fascination,  watching  the  baby  watch  Rich.  She  also  had,  you  couldn't  help  noticing,  the  most  beautiful,  full,  soft,  sweetly  moving  jugs  he'd  ever  seen,  like  balloons  plumped  to  the  point  of  ripe-  ness  with  a  golden  milky  essence.  Rich's  sisters  smiled  at  him,  trying  to  get  his  attention.  He  winked  back.  In  a  way,  this  place  was  a  kind  of  heaven.  He  sat  in  the  seat  of  all  goodness,  receiving  perfection.  At  that  exact  moment,  Nora  Garleck  would  be  on  the  other  side  of  the  At-  lantic,  hearing  the  pros  and  cons  of  a  concrete  sidewalk  storm  channel,  walk-  ing  through  the  very  basement  Rich  had  befouled  with  her  the  night  before.  Never  again,  he  thought,  picturing  him-  self  getting  abused  by  her,  face  down,  in  the  dirt.  &quot;Bye-bye,  you  big  horse.&quot;  His  mother  recalled  Rich  at  Jean-  Louis's  age.  &quot;He  loved  Popeye,&quot;  she  said,  out  loud,  without  thinking.  &quot;Should  we  sing  Popeye  the  Sailorman'?&quot;  His  mother  adored  him  with  limitless  inten-  sity.  But  there  was  something  in  the  way  his  mother  stared  at  him  that  had  al-  ways  had  this  effect-some  piece  inside,  some  shelf  that  supported  his  heart  and  lungs,  just  liquefied.  Oh,  when  would  he  ever  grow  out  of  this  slavery?  Maybe  it  was  the  jet  lag  kicking  in,  or  from  eat-  ing  too  quickly.  He  tried  shoving  a  bunch  of  grapes  into  his  mouth,and  then  got  up  and  moved  slowly,  mak-  ing  his  way  through  the  dark,  cold,  six-  hundred-year-old  halls  of  the  house  to  the  bedroom.  He  went  into  the  bath-  room  and  closed  the  door  and  locked  it  and  pulled  his  pants  down  and  sat  on  the  toilet,  thinking,  Thank  God  I'm  marrying  Gynnie  and  not  my  mother.  Gynnie  is  perfect  for  me.  Gynnie  is  cool  in  every  way.  From  behind  the  bathtub  where  Gynnie  lay  quietly  sobbing  she  heard  Rich  enter.  She'd  been  thinking,  until  his  oafish,  dirty  sneakers  stomped  through  her  moment  of  healing,  that  this  would  all  be  over  soon  enough.  Rich  let  out  the  kind  of  gas  that  can  only  be  produced  by  a  queasy  overnight  ocean  crossing,  squeezed  into  a  coach  seat,  drinking  free  suds  and  wine,  igniting  that  first  bellyful  of  French  smorgasbord.  Gynnie  sat  up  and  shouted,  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  Rich  sat  there  stunned.  He  said,  &quot;I'm  in  here!  Where  did  you  come  from?&quot;  He  looked  at  the  door  he'd  locked  from  in-  side.  On  top  of  his  confusion,  he  could  see  she'd  been  sobbing  so  hard  her  eye-  lids  looked  like  walnuts.  And  when  had  she  ditched  her  silk  kimono  for  her  mom's  ratty  bathrobe?  She  said,  &quot;Why  do  you  have  to  do  that  in  here!&quot;  &quot;Where  else  am  I  gonna  go?&quot;  he    yelled,  and  tried  to  pull  his  pants  up.  &quot;I  don't  care.&quot;  She  stood  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Get  out  of  here!&quot;  They  were  the  only  people  in  the  house,  and  ev-  ery  window  was  wide  open;  everybody  out  on  the  patio  heard  them  scream-  ing.Is  this  marriage?  he  thought,  run-  ning  out.  Is  this  typical  of  what  goes  on  from  this  point?  He  held  his  pants  up  with  one  hand,  grabbed  a  magazine  in  the  foyer,  and  finished  his  crap  down  the  hall.  In  the  morning,  Rich's  mother  sat  at  the  kitchen  table,  speaking  to  his  father  on  the  phone.  Martina  had  brought  out  a  tiny  television  to  watch  the  report  of  the  storm  in  the  States.  Af-  ter  spending  the  night  on  the  Newark-  airport  floor,  Rich's  father  and  brother  and  his  best  friend  took  the  advice  of  the  Air  [REDACTED]  representative  and  drove  four  hundred  miles  through  the  tor-  rent  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  when  they  got  there  [REDACTED]  was  closed,  too.  Rich  could  overhear  his  father's  voice,  as  though  it  were  coming  through  agar-  den  hose,  lashing  out  that  no  one  had  insured  the  plane  ticket.  She  handed  Rich  the  phone,  shaking  10  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  8,  2000  her  head,  secretly  happy  that  Rich's  father  wouldn't  be  coming.  &quot;Why  that  cocksucker  at  the  ticket  counter  didn't  tell  us  sooner  is  beyond  my  comprehension,&quot;  his  father  said.  Anytime  Rich's  father  used  the  word  &quot;cocksucker,&quot;  he  was  past  caring.  Like  a  lot  of  people,  he'd  already  let  Rich  know  that  staging  this  thing  in  Europe  was  a  classic,  small-minded  act  of  selfishness.  His  father  sang  the  French  national  an-  them  in  made-up  French  words,  wished  him  luck,  and  hung  up.  Rich  called  his  machine  at  home,  checked  his  messages;  they  told  the  same  story-cancelled  flights,  no  apologies.  No  one  else  was  coming.  When  he  stepped  outside,  his  aunts  were  drinking  coffee,  not  talking.  Every-  body  had  already  heard.  Finally  his  aunt  Irene  said,  &quot;What  a  shame,&quot;  in  an  at-  tempt  to  mimic  real  outcry,  and  then  his  aunt  Patti  and  his  cousins  Shelley  and  Tina  agreed,  Tina  scowling  slightly,  but  then  she  asked,  &quot;Does  anyone  want  the  last  chocolate  biscotti?  Biscotto?&quot;  The  sky  was  gorgeous-a  few  huge,  flat-  bottomed  clouds  plaqued  against  the  blue-black  sky;  he  could  see  far  out  into  the  valley.  What  struck  Rich,  as  his  mom  picked  up  half  of  a  croissant  and  offered  it  to  the  baby,  was  the  calm.  No  one  else  spoke.  The  disappointment  of  being  marooned  here  without  half  the  wed-  ding  party?  His  aunt  Irene  put  her  feet  up  on  the  table  and  leaned  her  headback  and  closed  her  eyes,  like  a  girl  on  vaca-  tion.  Nobody  cared  that  the  husbands  weren't  coming.  The  &quot;air&quot;  being  breathed  here  was  the  air  of  relief.  About  two  hundred  years  of  accumulated  married  bliss  among  Rich's  mom,  her  four  sisters,  and  his  cousins  fell  away  like  a  scab  with  no  sign  of  injury  beneath  it.  They  were  discussing  the  impact  of  Oprah.  Marriage  sucked,  he  thought.  You  get  married  for  what,  again?  His  mom  went  around  the  driveway  on  Martina's  bicycle,  pedalled  back,  and  said,  &quot;How  about  for  lunch  we  have  a  picnic?&quot;  Fuck  all  of  you,  Rich  thought.  I'm  not  gonna  be  like  this.  This  was  his  mother,  making  the  best  of  her  miserable  marriage.  Planning  a  picnic,  O0.D.'ing  on  Cepacol  lozenges,  watching  public  television  when  things  got  hairy-hunchback,  face-lift,  elastic-  waist  jeans,  yessing  Rich's  blowhard  dad,  doing  her  needlepoint,  unable  to  order  her  own  meal  in  a  restaurant,  try-  ing  to  sound  brightly  engaged  in  her  nonspeaking  role  in  the  community  theatre's  &quot;The  MusicMan,&quot;  bragging  about  their  view  from  the  living  room  back  home.  hey  had  dinner  in  the  back  yard,  by  candlelight,  beneath  a  row  of  linden  trees.  Some  neighbors  came  to  fill  the  empty  seats.  They  drank  local  wine  from  a  wooden  drum.  Emile  sat  beside  Gynnie,  half-heart-  edly  trying  to  calm  her  suspicions  about  Martina's  family's  complicity  during  the  war.  He  knew  what  she  was  getting  at.  We  had  our  own  Holocaust  in  the  Alsace,  he  wanted  to  tell  her.  We  didn't  have  time  to  worry  about  the  fucking  Poles  working  in  your  grandfather's  fac-  tory  in  Ulm.  He  wanted  to  give  her  more  money.  He  wanted  to  have  her  blood  tested,  he  wanted  to  hold  her.  Why  did  he  come?  The  past  is  a  cold,  dry  potato,  and  you  try  to  heat  it  up.  Rich  sat  beside  them.  He  and  Gyn-  nie  weren't  speaking.  He  revolted  her      right  now.  Her  makeup  was  off,  her  face  was  ashen,  her  hair  hung  like  fishing  line.  He  took  a  good  look  at  what  he  was  marrying.  A  few  years  earlier,  she'd  had  both  of  her  front  teeth  knocked  out  in  a  waterskiing  accident;  they'd  been  glued  back  in  but  they  were  &quot;dead,&quot;  that's  how  she  referred  to  them.  They  were  the  wrong  color.  Rich  wondered  about  other  dead  parts.  Later,  after  Gynnie  went  off  to  bed  without  saying  good  night,  Rich  sat  ina  chaise  on  the  patio,  Jean-Louis  asleep  across  his  lap,  Chantal  sleeping  on  the  other  chaise,  in  the  dim  candlelight.  Were  the  ways  we  revolt  each  other  infi-  nite?  Emile  sat  down  with  a  glass  of  wine.  He  was  disappointed,  he  said.  He  had  thought  Rich  was  going  to  make  a  speech  tonight.  He  was  too  sad  to  ex-  plain  what  he  meant,  too  tired  to  trans-  late  his  thoughts:  A  man  is  an  eagle,  he  soars,  he  rules  over  everything,  he  makes  life  happen,  he  opens  her  up,  he  shows  the  way,  he  guides  her,  he  wor-  ships  and  cajoles  and  charms  and  pays  and  kisses  and  protects  and  fixes  and  demands.  Great  speech,  Emile  thought,  you  drunk  idiot.  Can't  even  talk,  never  even  got  married,  too  hung  up  on  a  woman  you  screwed  once.  Emile  placed  a  wine  cork  in  the  can-  dle  flame  until  it  was  burning,  and  pulled  it  out  and  blew  out  the  flame  on  the  end  of  the  cork,  and  although  it  appeared  to  be  smoldering,  he  grabbed  Rich  by  the  back  of  the  head  and  pressed  the  cork  against  Rich's  face,  wiping  it  on  him.  The  cork  had  become  charcoal.  Emile  said,  &quot;You  look  like  a  baby,&quot;  and  tried  to  explain  that,  with  his  baby  face,  may-  be  what  Rich  needed  was  a  mustache.  He  thought  it  would  make  the  kid  distinguished-looking.  Rich  smelled  the  burning  cork,  the  wine  on  Emile's  breath,  the  scent  of  mothballs  from  theold  man's  sweater.  &quot;What  did  I  ever  do  to  you?&quot;  Rich  asked,  put  down  the  baby,  and  got  up  and  walked  inside.  Emile  sat  there  stunned.  He  meant  to  be  the  kid's  ally.  Gynnie  was  awake.  She  looked  at  this  dirt  on  Rich's  face.  She  was  sorry.  She  imagined  him,  for  a  moment,  more  mature,  with  a  dark  black  mus-  tache  and  beard,  a  father  to  her  chil-  dren,a  hardened  understanding  of  real  responsibility.  She  said,  &quot;Are  you  mad  at  me?&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Are  you&quot;&quot;  She  said,  &quot;You're  the  best  thing  that  ever  happened  to  me  in  my  life.&quot;  She  waited  for  him  tospeak.  'The  only  good  thing.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  kidding?&quot;  By  the  time  Rich  lay  down  beside  Gynnie,  they  were  both  feeling  that  fighting  was  humiliating.  They  put  their  faces  together  and  talked  and  af-  ter  five  minutes  they  felt  lucky  and  ashamed  and  were  ableto  kiss.  Was  this  the  time  and  place  for  him  to  con-  fess?  Confess  what,  though?  Some-  times  a  secret,  if  you  contain  it,  pro-  vides  its  own  deliberate  absolution.  The  amount  of  work  and  excitement  and  well-wishing  had  overwhelmed  them.  By  the  time  they  were  making  love,  they'd  quit  talking.  In  the  sud-  den  silence  you  could  hear  the  entire  house  listening.  Everyone  knew  what  was  happening.  There  was  an  inde-  scribable  click-it  was  from  the  slats  of  the  bed,  the  wood  being  bowed  in  rhythm.  The  floor  also  repeated  a  faint  noise.  It  was  agreed,  of  course,  that  pretty  soon  they'd  be  fighting  again,  and  whatever  came  after  that  would  be  hard  enough.  Aunt  Patti,  who'd  been  through  two  divorces,  thought  this  reminded  her  of  her  first  one.  So:  the  bride  and  groom  were  screwing.  Good  for  them.  They  had  the  house's  good  wishes.  When  the  two  of  them  got  tired  doing  it  one  way,  Rich  fell  over,  and  they  did  it  sidewise.  After  a  while,  they  rested,  and  thenresumed.  They  were,  by  now,  on  to  higher  stuff.  Their  coming  was  still  on  hold,  prolonged  to  make  them  both  nuts.  There  was  some  moaning.  Their  own  moaning  was  exciting  to  both  of  them  and  to  their  aunts  and  mothers  and  rela-  tives,  who  were  still  up  drinking  wine  and  stood  outside  their  window,  listening.  And  then  Rich  and  Gynnie  were  done,  and  they  laythere,  their  warm  bodies  against  the  oldcold  wall.  At  the  end,  they'd  done  it  so  hard-Rich  fucked  Gynnie  so  hard  he  forgot  he  was  marrying  her. 