  PERSONAL  ARCHEOLOGY  In  his  increasing  isolation-elderly  golfing  buddies  dead  or  dying,  his  old  business  contacts  fraying,  no  office  to  go  to,  his  wife  always  off  at  her  bridge  or  committees,  his  children  as  busy  and  preoccupied  as  he  had  been  in  middle  age-Fritz  Martin  took  an  interest  in  the  traces  left  by  prior  owners  of  his  land.  In  the  prime  of  his  life,  when  he  worked  ten  or  twelve  hours  every  week-  day  and  socialized  all  weekend,  he  had  pretty  much  ignored  his  land.  Years  had  passed  without  his  setting  foot  on  some  corners  of  it.  The  ten  acres  were  there  to  cushion  his  house  from  the  encroachments  of  close  neighbors  and  as  an  investment  against  the  day  when  they  would  be  sold,  most  likely  to  ade-  veloper,  the  profit  going  to  Fritz's  widow,  124  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  29,  2000  BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  Grace,  who  was  six  years  younger  than  he.  The  place,  as  he  understood  it,  had  been  a  wooded  hill  at  the  back  ofan  es-  tate  until  around  1900.  A  wealthy  bach-  elor,  marrying  tardily,  built  a  spacious  summer  house  for  his  bride  and  himself  on  what  had  been  a  boulder-framed  pic-  nic  spot,  with  enough  treesfelled  for  a  glimpse  of  the  distant  Atlantic.  There  were  old  roads  on  the  property,  built  up  on  shoulders  of  big  fieldstones,  too  steep  and  with  turns  too  sharp  for  any  combustion-driven  car;  horses  must  have  pulled  vehicles  up  these  hairpin  turns,  through  these  enduring  tunnels  of  green.  Even  after  decades,  trees  are  shy  of  taking  root  on  soil  once  packed  tight  by  wheels.  Standing  on  the  edge  of  one  of  the  sev-  eral  granite  cliffs  he  owned,  Fritz  imag-  ined  farm  wagons  or  pony  carts  creaking  and  twinkling  toward  him,  the  narrow  spoked  wheels  laboring  up  swales,  now  choked  with  greenbrier,  that  he  imag-  ined  to  be  roadways,  bringing  young  peo-  ple  in  summer  muslin  and  beribboned  bonnets  and  white  ducks  and  straw  boat-  ers  up  past  him  to  a  picnic.  But  a  century  ago  [REDACTED]  land  was  mostly  cleared,  bare  to  the  wind  and  sun,  cropped  by  sheep  and  goats.  Perhaps  he  was  picturing  it  all  wrong.  The  winding  roadway  ran  headon  into  a  spiky  wall  of  monoliths;  how  had  it  climbed  the  rest  of  the  hill}?  Near  the  house,  granite  outcroppings  bore  enig-  matic  testimony.  There  were  holes  drilled  here  and  there,  as  if  to  anchor  iron  gates  or  heavy  awnings.  A  veranda  with  a  sea     &lt;  ERRI  WEIFENBACH,  &quot;17.  APRIL  1994&quot;/JACKSON  FINE  ARTS,  G  =  view  had  long  ago  rotted  away,  and  Fritz  himself  had  replaced  a  dilapidated  pil-  lared  porch  on  the  front  of  the  house,  fac-  ing  the  circular  asphalt  driveway  that  had  once  been  a  gravel  carriage  turn.  The  woods  held  vine-covered  mounds  of  jagged  rock  that  he  took  to  be  left  over  from  the  blasting  of  the  house  founda-  tions.  In  the  early  years  of  the  recently  departed  twentieth  century,  crews  of  masons  fresh  from  4974616c79  roamed  this  neighborhood,  building  giant  walls  that  now  were  gradually,  stone  by  stone,  col-  lapsing.  One  night,  a  section  of  retaining  wall  holding  up  his  wife's  most  ambi-  tious  flower  garden  collapsed,  spilling  not  just  earth  and  flowers  but  ashes,  of  the  clinkerish  sort  produced  by  a  coal  furnace,  and  a  litter  of  old  cans  and  glass  jars.  The  garden's  subsoil  had  been  an  ash  and  trash  dump.  When  had  the  gar-  den  been  created,  then?  Later  than  he  thought,  perhaps-the  same  era  when  the  concrete  wells  for  the  cold  frames  were  poured,  now  useless  pits  roofed  by  frames  of  punky  wood,  crumbled  putty,  and  shattering  glass.  In  Fritz's  mind,  the  property  had  had  four  eras  before  his  own.  First,  there  was  the  era  of  creation  and  perfect  mainte-  nance,  when  the  enthusiastic,  newly  mar-  ried  rich  man  was  still  alive,  and  servants  bustled  from  the  stone  sinks  in  the  base-  ment  out  to  the  bricked  drying  yard  with  baskets  of  steaming  laundry,  and  the  oiled  cedar  gutters  poured  rainwater  down  gurgling  downspouts  into  fully  func-  tional  underground  drains.  Then  this  happy  man  died,  and  the  widow,  prefer-  ring  the  society  of  [REDACTED]  to  her  lonely  house  on  the  hill,  imposed  a  largely  ab-  sentee  reign,  in  which  one  dining-room  wall  with  its  hand-printed  pictorial  French  wallpaper  was  ruined  by  a  winter  leak  and  the  dainty  porches,  pillared  and  bal-  ustered  appendages  exposed  to  the  weather,  slowly  succumbed  to  blizzards  and  noreasters.  There  came  an  era  when  she,  too,  was  dead  and  the  house  stood  empty;  perhaps  most  of  the  neglect  and  damage  should  be  assigned  to  this  inter-  regnum,  which  ended  just  before  the  Second  World  War,  when  a  young  and  growing  family  took  on  the  place  as  a  year-round  residence.  Central  heating  was  installed,  and  a  pine-panelled  study  was  carved  from  the  broad  front  hall,  and  the  brick  chimneys  were  repointed  and  the  tattered  roof  shingles  replaced.  Im-  provements  were  halted  by  the  war.  The  husband  and  father  enlisted  to  sail  the  ocean,  visible  from  the  windows,  which  were  covered  with  blackout  paper.  He  re-  turned  as  a  rear  admiral,  and  lived  on  the  place  until  he  was  seventy-two  and  all  six  of  his  children  had  moved  on.  From  this  long  and  busy  era,  Fritz  dated  most  of  the  oddments  he  found  in  the  woods-Mason  jars,  flowerpots,  shotgun  shells,  rubber  tires  half  sunk  in  the  leaf  mold  and  holding  a  yellow  ob-  long  of  scummy  water,  pieces  of  buried  pipe,  rusted  strands  of  wire  testifying  to  some  bygone  fencing  project.  Tree  houses  had  been  built  and  abandoned  amid  the  rocky  woods;  porcelain  insulators  and  in-  sulated  copper  strands  carried  the  ghost  of  electricity;  parts  of  a  motorcycle  engine,  filmed  with  blackened  grease,  remem-  bered  a  time  when  the  steep  old  roads  served  a  young  man's  racing  game.  These  acres  had  absorbed  much  labor:  stacks  of  wood  cut  to  fireplace  length  moldered  between  two  still-living  trees,  and  Fritz's  shoes  scuffed  into  view  beneath  the  leaves  a  sparkling  layer  of  carbon,  the  charcoal  residue  of  old  fires.  On  the  lower  reaches  of  the  land,  where  a  broad  track  across  pine  needles  wound  downward  toward  a  causeway  that  led  il-  legally,  through  several  private  yards,  to  a  beach,  there  had  been  a  virtual  snow-  fall  of  pale  plastic  litter-container  tops,  flexible  straws,  milk  containers.  Fritz  was  rewarded,  in  his  occasional  harvests  with  a  garbage  bag,  by  finding  hidden  in  the  greenbrier  and  marsh  grass  tinted  bottles  of  a  nostalgic  thickness.  By  trespassers  or  owners,  the  land  had  been  trodden,  craggy  as  it  was.  Trodden  and  scarred.  In  an  incident  that  had  been  described  to  him  by  an  ancient  friend  of  the  previous  owner,  a  certain  dinner  guest  had  slid,  one  icy,  boozy  night,  into  the  wall  of  great  stones  on  a  curve  of  the  driveway  and  knocked  out,  like  a  single  tooth,  a  molar-shaped  boulder  that  now  sat  some  thirty  feet  into  the  woods  a  permanent  monument  to  a  moment's  mishap,  too  massive,  in  this  weakling  latter  age,  to  be  moved  back  into  posi-  tion.  When  Fritz  inquired  about  bring-  ing  the  equipment  into  move  it  back,  he  was  told  that  the  weight  of  the  ma-  chinery  might  break  the  driveway  down.  In  a  seldom  visited  declivity  beyond  this  great  granite  cube,  Fritz,  picking  up  deadwood,  found  a  charred  work  glove,  stiff  as  a  dead  squirrel,  with  the  word  &quot;Sarge&quot;  written  on  the  back  in  the  sort  of  felt-tip  marker  that  didn't  come  into  use  until  the  nineteen-sixties.  Who  was  Sarge?  Part  of  a  work  crew,  Fritz  speculated,  who  had  carelessly  dropped  his  glove  on  the  edge  of  a  spreading  grass  fire.  Or  a  woodsman  who,  while  feeding  brush  into  a  blaze,  had  seen  his  hand  flame  up  and  flung  the  glove  from  him  in  horror  and  pain.  Nearer  the  house,  raking  up  organic  oddments  in  a  spring  cleaning,  Fritz  spied  beneath  an  overgrown  forsythia  a  gleam-  ing  curve  of  white  ceramic  and,  digging  with  his  fingers,  found  it  to  be  the  handle  of  a  teacup.  He  dug  up  six  or  so  frag-  ments;  the  delicate  porcelain  cup,  gilt-  rimmed,  had  been  dropped  or  broken,  perhaps  by  a  child,  who  in  his  or  her  fright  had  buried  the  evidence  in  a  shrub  border.  The  quality  of  the  china  sug-  gested  one  of  the  early  eras,  perhaps  the  idyllic  first.  The  earth,  freezing  and  thaw  ing  in  its  annual  cycle,  can  at  last  push  up  to  the  surface  what  the  culprit  thought  had  been  safely  buried  and  forever  hidden.  itz's  dreams,  those  that  disturbed  him  enough  to  be  remembered  when  he  awoke,  tended  to  return  to  a  rather  brief  stretch  of  his  life,  when  he  was  em-  broiled  in  a  domestic  double-entendre.  There  was  his  first  wife,  who  in  these  dreams  had  a  certain  retreating  smooth-  ness,  like  a  ceramic  saint  seen  from  below,  and  his  wife-to-be,  who  was  more  vigorously  plaintive,  her  discomfort  seem-  ing  to  occupy  several  corners  of  the  dream's  screen  while  he  scrambled  to  hold  on  to  every  human  piece  of  the  puzzle.  Curiously,  in  his  dreams  he  in-  variably  lost  her-saw  her  flee  and  re-  cede-so  it  was  with  a  soft  shock  that  he  awakened  and  realized  that  she,  and  not  his  first  wife,  lay  beside  him  in  bed,  as  she  had  done  for  twenty  years  now.  His  con-  fusion  gradually  cleared  into  relief,  and  he  fell  back  to  sleep  like  a  living  bandage  sealing  over  a  wound.  His  children  fig-  ured  in  the  dream  dramas  indistinctly,  shape-shifting  participants  in  a  kind  of  many-bodied  party  halfway  up  the  stairs;  the  party's  main  ingredient,  however,  was  not  jollity  but  pain,  a  pain  gluti-  nously  mixed  of  indecision,  stretched  communications,  unexpressed  apologies,  and  unbearable  suspense.  Fritz  would  wake  to  find  that  the  party  was  long  over,  that  he  was  an  old  man  living  out  his  days  harmlessly  on  ten  acres  covered  by  a  vague  mulch  of  previous  generations.  The  parties  had  been  vehicles  for  flir-  tation  and  exploration,  a  train  of  linked  weekends  carrying  them  all  along  in  a  giddy  din.  He  and  his  friends  were  in  the  '  prime  of  their  lives  and  expected  that,  amusing  and  wonderful  as  things  were,  things  even  more  wonderful  were  bound  to  happen.  There  were,  in  fact,  two  si-  multaneous  parties,  two  layers  of  party:  the  overt  layer,  where  they  discussed,  as  adults,  local  politics,  national  issues,  their  automobiles  and  schools  for  their  chil-  dren,  zoning  boards  and  home  renova-  tions;  and  thecovert  layer,  where  men  and  women  communicated  with  eye-  glance  and  whisper,  hand-squeeze  and  excessive  hilarity.  The  underlayer  some-  times  undermined  the  upper  and,  with  it,  the  seemingly  solid  structure  of  the  interwoven  bourgeois  families.  Cocktail  parties  were  lethal  melees,  wherein  lovers  with  a  murmur  made  or  cancelled  assig-  nations.  In  an  upstairs  hall,  outside  a  bathroom,  Fritz  remembered  a  younger  woman,  smooth  of  face  and  arm,  wear-  ing  gray-blue  silk,  daring  him  to  give  her  a  kiss  and,  as  he  backed  off,  say-  ing,  gently,  &quot;Chicken.&quot;  Shewasenough  younger  than  he  that  he  had  taken  her,  for  an  instant  in  the  shadowy  hall,  as  one  of  their  host's  adolescent  daughters.  But  for  every  moment  he  consciously  remembered  from  that  remote  era,  there  were  hundreds  he  had  forgotten  and  that  fought  back  into  his  awareness  in  the  tangle  of  these  recurrent  party  dreams.  His  sensation  in  the  dreams  was  the  same:  stagefright,  a  feeling  that  what  he  was  en-  acting  was  toobig  for  him,  too  eternal  in  its  significance.  He  woke  with  relief,  the  turmoil  slipping  from  him,  his  wife  ab-  sent  from  the  bed  and  already  padding  around  downstairs.  Sometimes  he  awoke  in  a  separate  bed,  because  in  his  old  age  he  helplessly,  repulsively  snored,  and  slept  in  the  guest  room.  When  he  awoke  there,  his  eyes  found,  on  the  opposite  wall,  a  painting  that  had  hung  in  his  childhood  home-in  the  several  homes  his  wan-  dering  family  had  occupied.  The  paint-  ing,  a  pathetic  and  precious  token  of  cul-  ture  which  his  mother  had  bought  for  (if  he  remembered  correctly)  thirty-five  dol-  lars  in  a  [REDACTED]  framer's  shop,  de-  picted  a  [REDACTED]  scene,  some  high  dunes  in  Provincetown,  with  ashallow  .  triangle  of  water,  a  glimpse  of  the  sea,     framedbetween  the  two  most  distant  slopes  of  sand.  Was  it  that  painting  which  had  led  him  from  that  Commonwealth  to  this  one,  to  this  hilltop  house  with  its  glimpse  of  the  sea?  Various  other  remnants  of  his  boy  hood  world  had  washed  up  in  the  house:  his  grandfather's  Fraktur-inscribed  shav-  ing  mug,  a  dented  copper  ashtray  little  Fritz  had  often  watched  his  father  crush  out  cigarettes  in,  a  pair  of  brass  candle-  sticks,  like  erect  twists  of  rope,  that  his  mother  would  place  on  the  dining-room  table  when  they  fed  relatives  from  New  Jersey.  These  objects  had  been  with  him  in  the  abyss  of  lost  time,  and  survived  less  altered  than  he.  What  didthey  mean?  They  had  to  mean  something,  fraught  and  weighty  as  they  were  with  the  mys-  tery  of  his  own  transient  existence.  &quot;I'd  give  anything  not  to  have  married  you,&quot;  Grace  would  say,  out  of  the  blue,  when  angry  or  soulful.  She  carried  into  daylight,  he  felt,  a  grudge  against  him  for  snoring,  though  he  was  as  helpless  to  control  it  as  he  was  his  dreams.  &quot;If  only  T'd  listened  to  my  conscience.&quot;  &quot;Conscience?&quot;  Chicken,  he  remem-  bered.  &quot;I  don't  know  about  you,  but  I'm  very  happy  in  this  marriage.  You've  been  wonderful.  Amazing.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  dear.  But  it  was  so  wrong.  That  time  upstairs  at  the  Rosses',  the  way  you  loped  toward  me  in  the  hall,  you  were  scary-like  abig  wolf  out  of  the  shadows.  Your  teeth  gleamed.&quot;  &quot;Gleamed?&quot;  He  couldn't  picture  it.  He  had  dull,  tea-stained  teeth.  But  he  recognized  that  the  gleam  was  some-  thing  true  and  precious  unearthed  from  deep  within  her,  giving  her  past  a  lodestar.  At  the  time  he  kept  dreaming  of,  strange  to  recall,  he  had  not  had  stage-  fright.  He  had  felt  calm,  masterful,  amid  scandal  and  protest  and  grief.  There  had  been  a  psychiatrist  encouraging  him.  His  mother,  initially  indignant,  became  philosophical,  employing  postmodern  irony  and  a  talk-show  tolerance.  His  chil-  dren  consoled  themselves  by  thinking  they  would  someday  grow  up  and  never  be  so  helpless  again.  In  abandoning  his  family,  a  man  frees  up  a  soothing  amount  of  time.  Fritz  found  himself  projected  into  novel  situations-dawn  risings  from  a  strange  bed,  visits  to  lawyers'  offices,  hotel  trysts  hundreds  of  miles  from  home-  and  he  behaved  like  an  actor  who  had  re-  hearsed  his  lines,  who  had  zealously  pre-  pared  for  his  dramatic  part,  and  played  it  creditably,  no  matter  what  the  review-  ers  said.  So  why  the  stagefright  now,  in  his  sleep?  It  had  been  there  all  along  and  was  rising  up  into  him,  like  his  death.  He  had  recently  visited  an  old  friend,  a  corpulent  golfing  buddy,  in  the  hospital  after  a  heart  attack.  Al  lay  with  tubes  up  his  nose  and  in  his  mouth,  breathing  for  him.  His  chest  moved  up  and  down  with  a  mechanical  regularity  recorded  by  hop-  ping  green  lines  on  a  monitor  on  the  wall:  a  TV  show,  &quot;Al's  Last  Hours.&quot;  It  was  en-  grossing,  though  the  plot  was  thin,  those  Iines  hopping  on  and  on  in  a  beautiful  lu-  minous  green.  Al's  eyelashes,  pale  and  furry,  fluttered  when  Fritz  spoke,  in  too  loud  a  voice,  as  if  calling  from  the  edge  of  a  cliff.  &quot;Thanks  for  all  the  laughs,  Al.  You  just  do  what  the  nurses  and  doctors  tell  you,  and  you'll  be  fine.&quot;  Al's  hand,  as  puffy  as  an  inflated  rubber  glove,  wiggled  at  his  side,  on  the  bright  white  sheet.  Fritz  took  it  in  his,  trying  not  to  dislocate  the  T.  V.  tubes  shunted  into  the  wrist.  The  hand  was  warm,  and  silky  as  a  woman's,  not  having  swung  a  golf  club  for  years,  but  didn't  seem  animate,  even  when  it  returned  the  pressure.  Our  bodies,  Fritz  thought,  are  a  heavy  residue.  One  of  his  childhood  homes  had  been  rural,  with  some  acres  attached,  and  while  exploring  those  little  woods  alone  one  lonely  afternoon  he  had  come  upon  an  old  family  dump-a  mound,  nearly  grassed  over,  of  glass  bottles  with     raised  lettering,  as  self-important  and  indelible  as  the  lettering  on  tombstones.  Many  of  the  bottles  were  broken,  though  the  glass  by  modern  standards  was  amaz-  ingly  thick,  like  rock  candy,  the  jagged  edge  making  a  third  surface,  between  the  inside  and  the  outside.  Malt-brown,  sea-blue,  beryl,  amber,  a  foggy  white,  they  bore  in  relief  the  names  of  local  bottling  works,  defunct.  The  bever-  ages  and  medicines  they  had  held  were  gone,  drunk,  for  all  the  good  or  ill  they  had  done-not  so  much  as  a  scummy  puddle  inside  an  old  tire  left.  The  pile  had  frightened  little  Fritz,  as  a  pile  of  bones  would  have,  yet  in  his  isola-  tion  had  kept  him  a  kind  of  oblivi-  ously  cheerful  company.  He  returned  to  it  often,  this  trace  of  vanished  life,  as  if  to  a  playmate,  glittering  and  ideally  silent.  On  his  own  acres,  wandering,  garbage  bag  in  hand,  in  the  lowland  beyond  the  stray  rock  and  the  burned  glove,  he  found  a  number  of  half-buried  golf  balls,  their  lower  sides  stained  by  immersion  in  the  acid  earth,  the  cut-proof  covers  begin-  ning  to  rot.  He  remembered  how,  when  first  moving  to  this  place,  and  still  hope-  ful  for  his  game,  he  would  stand  on  the  edge  of  the  lawn  and  hit  a  few  old  balls-never  more,  thriftily,  than  three  at  a  time-into  the  woods  down  below.  They  seemed  to  soar  forever  before  dis-  appearing  into  the  trees.  He  had  never  expected  to  find  them.  They  marked,  he  supposed,  the  beginning  of  his  era.   