  Friday,  and  the  great  station  was  athrong  with  citizens  on  their  way  somewhere,  laden  with  baggage  and  precious  packages,  shouting  goodbyes  and  greetings,  flag-  ging  their  arms,  embracing,  gripping  each  other  with  pleasure.  Others,  though,  simply  stood,  as  Mack  Bolger  was  when  I  saw  him,  staring  rather  vacantly  at  the  crowds,  as  if  whomever  he  was  there  to  meet  for  some  reason  hadn't  come.  Mack  is  a  tall,  handsome,  well-put-  together  manwho  seems  to  see  every-  thing  from  a  height.  He  was  wearing  a  long  gabardine  overcoat  of  some  deep-  olive  twill-an  expensive  coat,  I  thought,  an  Italian  coat.  His  brown  shoes  were  polished  toa  high  gloss.  His  trouser  cuffs  hit  them  just  right.  And  because  he  was  without  a  hat  he  seemed  even  taller  than  what  he  was-perhaps  six-  three.  His  hands  were  in  his  coat  pockets,  his  smooth  chin  was  slightly  elevated,  the  way  a  middle-aged  man's  would  be,  and  as  if  he  thought  he  was  extremely  visible  there.  His  hair  was  thinning  a  lit-  tle  in  front,  but  it  was  carefully  cut,  and  he  was  tanned,  which  caused  his  square  face  and  prominent  brow  to  appear  heavy,  almost  artificially  so,  as  though  in  a  peculiar  way  the  man  I  saw  were  not  Mack  Bolger  but  an  effigy  situated  pre-  cisely  there  to  attract  my  attention.  For  a  while,  a  year  and  a  half  before,  I  had  been  involved  with  Mack  Bolger's  wife,  Beth  Bolger.  Oddly  enough-only  because  all  events  that  occur  outside  84  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  15,  2000  FICTION  REUNION  BY  RICHARD  FORD  New  Yorkseem  odd  and  fancifully  un-  real  to  New  Yorkers-our  affair  had  taken  place  in  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  Louis,  that  largely  overlookable  red  brick  abstraction  that  is  neither  West  nor  Middle  West,  nei-  ther  [REDACTED]  nor  [REDACTED];  the  city  lost  in  the  middle,  as  I  think  of  it.  I  have  always  found  it  interesting  that  it  was  the  home  of  T.  S.  Eliot  and,  only  eighty-five  years  before  that,  the  starting  point  of  West-  ern  expansion.  It  is  a  place,  I  suppose,  the  world  can't  get  away  from  fast  enough.  What  went  on  between  Beth  Bolger  and  me  is  hardly  worth  the  words  that  would  be  required  to  explain  it  away.  At  any  distance  but  the  close  range  I  saw  it  from,  it  was  an  ordinary  adultery-spir-  ited,  thrilling,  and  then,  after  a  brief  while,  when  we  had  crossed  the  conti-  nent  several  times  and  caused  as  many  people  as  possible  unhappiness,  embar-  rassment,  and  heartache,  it  became  dis-  appointing  and  ignoble  and  finally  al-  most  disastrous  to  those  same  people.  Because  itis  the  truth  and  serves  to  com-  plicate  Mack's  unlikable  dilemma  and  to  cast  him  in  a  more  sympathetic  light,  I  will  say  that  at  one  point  he  was  forced  to  confront  me  (and  Beth,  as  well)  in  a  hotel  room  in  [REDACTED]  Louis-a  nice,  graceful  old  barn  called  the  Mayfair-with  the  result  that  I  got  banged  around  in  a  minor  way  and  sent  off  into  the  down-  town  streets  of  [REDACTED]  Louis  on  a  warmly  humid  autumn  Sunday  afternoon,  with-  out  the  slightest  idea  of  what  to  do,  end-  ing  up  waiting  for  hours  at  the  airport  for  a  midnight  flight  back  to  New  York.  Apart  from  my  dignity,  Ileft  behind  and  never  saw  againa  brown  silk  Hermés  scarf  with  tassels  that  my  mother  had  given  me  for  Christmas  in  1971,  a  gift  she  felt  was  the  nicest  thing  she'd  ever  seen  and  perfect  for  a  man  just  starting  life  as  an  editor.  I  am  glad  she  did  not  have  to  know  about  my  losing  it,  or  how  it  happened.  I  also  did  not  see  Beth  Bolger  again,  except  for  one  sorrowful  and  bitter  drink  we  had  together  in  the  theatre  district  last  spring,  anervous,  uncomfortable  meeting  we  somehow  felt  obligated  to  have,  and  following  which  I  walked  away  down  Forty-seventh  Street  feeling  that  all  of  life  was  a  sorry  mess,  while  Beth  went  along  to  see  &quot;The  Iceman  Com-  eth,&quot;  which  was  playing  then.  We  have  not  seen  each  other  since  that  leavetak-  ing,  and,  as  I  said,  to  tell  more  would  not  be  quite  worth  the  words.  But  when  I  saw  Mack  Bolger  stand-  ing  in  the  great,  crowded,  holiday-  bedecked  concourse  of  Grand  Central,  looking  rather  vacant-headed  but  clearly  himself,  so  far  from  the  middleof  the  country,  I  was  taken  by  a  sudden,  strange  impulse-which  was  to  walk  straight  across  through  the  eddying  currents  of  travellers  and  speak  to  him,  just  as  you  might  speak  to  anyone  you  casually  knew  and  had  unexpectedly  but  not  unhappily  encountered.  And  not  to  impart  any-  thing,  or  to  set  in  motion  any  particular  action  (to  clarify  history,  for  instance,  or  make  amends),  but  just  to  speak  and  cre-  ate  an  event  where  before  there  was  none.  And  not  an  unpleasant  event,  or  a  pro-  vocative  one.  Just  a  dimensionless,  unre-  verberant  moment,  a  contact,  unimpor-  tantin  every  other  way.  Life  has  few  enough  of  these  moments-the  rest  of  it  ~  being  involved  so  completely  in  the  pre-  dictable  and  the  obligated.  I  knew  a  few  things  about  Mack  Bol-  +o4+  -  o  ger,  about  his  life  since  we'd  confronted  %  /  ELEANOR  BAREFOOT  GALLERY  DEL  FDN.,  INC  G  3  O  a  8  3  Q.  3  G  a.  (E5  (  3,  R  Hotel.  Beth  had  been  happy  to  tell  me  duringour  woeful  drink  at  the  Espalier  Bar  in  April.  Our-Beth's  and  my-love  affair  was,  of  course,  only  one  feature  in  the  long  devaluation  and  decline  in  her  and  Mack's  marriage.  This  I'd  under-  stood.  There  were  two  children;  Mack  had  been  frantic  to  hold  matters  together  for  the  sake  of  their  futures.  Beth  was  a  portrait  photographer  who  worked  from  9  home  but  craved  engagement  with  the  |=  wide  world  outside  University  City-  2  MODEL,  &quot;RUNNING  LEGS&quot;  (1940-41),  ©1983  LISETTE  craved  it  in  the  worst  way,  andwas  there-  forebasically  unhappy  with  everything  in  her  life.  After  my  departure,  she  moved  out  of  their  house,  took  an  apartment  near  the  Gateway  Arch,  and  for  a  time  took  a  much  younger  lover.  Mack,  for  his  part  in  their  upheaval,  eventually  quit  his  job  as  an  executive  for  a  large  agri-  biz  company,  consideredstudying  for  -S  the  ministry,  considered  going  on  a  mis-  sionary  journey  to  Senegal  or  French  Guiana;  briefly  took  a  young  lover  him-  self.  One  child  had  been  arrestedfor  shoplifting;  the  other  had  gotten  admit-  ted  to  Brown.  There  were  months  of  all-  night  confrontations,  some  combative,  some  loving  and  revelatory,  some  de-  risory  from  both  sides.  Until  everything  that  could  be  said  or  expressed  or  threat-  ened  was  in  its  time  said,  expressed,  threatened  and  a  standstill  was  achieved  by  which  they  both  stayed  in  their  house  but  kept  separate  schedules,  saw  differ-  ent  new  friends,  had  occasional  dinners  together,  went  to  the  Muny  Opera,  oc-  casionally  even  slept  together,  but  saw  little  hope  (in  Beth's  case)  of  things  turn-  ing  out  better  than  they  were  at  the  time  of  our  joyless  drink  together  and  the  O'Neill  play.  I'd  assumed  then  that  Beth  was  meeting  someone  else  that  evening,  had  someone  in  New  York  she  was  in-  terested  in,  and  4974616c79  completely  fine  about  it.  &quot;It's  really  odd,&quot;  Beth  said,  stirring  her  long,  almost  pure-white  finger  around  the  surface  of  her  Kir  Royale,  &quot;%  4  A4  a  a  {}{£44}  wy  5  staring  not  at  me  but  at  the  glass  rim  where  the  pink  liquid  nearly  exceeded  its  vitreous  limits  but  did  not,  &quot;we  were  so  close.&quot;  Her  eyesrose  to  me,  and  she  smiled  affectionately.  &quot;You  and  I,  I  mean.  Now  I  feellike  I'm  telling  all  this  to  an  old  friend.  Or  to  my  brother.&quot;  Beth  is  a  tall,  sallow-faced,  big-  boned,  ash-blond  woman  who  smokes  too  many  cigarettes  and  whose  hair  al-  ways  hangs  down  in  her  eyes  like  a  for-  ties  [REDACTED]  glamour  girl's.  This  can  be  attractive,  although  it  also  causes  her  sometimes  to  seem  to  be  spying  on  her  own  conversations.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;it's  all  right  to  feel  that  way.&quot;  I  smiled  back  across  the  little  round  black-topped  café  table.  It  was  all  right.  I  had  gone  on.  When  I  looked  back  on  what  we'd  done,  none  of  it  except  for  what  we'd  done  in  bed  made  me  feel  good  about  life,  or  that  the  experience  had  been  finally  worth  it.  But  I  couldn't  undo  it.  I  don't  believe  the  past  can  be  repaired  that  way.  It  can  only  be  ex-  ceeded.  &quot;Sometimes,&quot;  I  went  on,  &quot;friend-  ship's  all  we're  after  in  the  first  place.&quot;  This,  I  admit,  I  did  not  really  believe.     &quot;Mack's  like  adog,  you  know,&quot;  Beth  said  and  flicked  her  hair  away  from  her  eyes.  He  was  on  her  mind.  &quot;I  kick  him,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  he  tries  to  bring  me  things.  It's  pathetic.  He's  very  interested  in  Tantric  sex  now,whatever  that  is.  Do  you  know  what  that  even  is?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  like  hearing  this,&quot;  I  saidstu-  pidly,  though  it  was  true.  &quot;It  sounds  cruel.&quot;  &quot;You're  just  afraid  I'll  say  it  about  you,  Johnny.&quot;  She  smiled  and  touched  her  damp  fingertip  to  her  lips,  which  were  wonderful  lips.  &quot;Afraid?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Afraid's  really  not  the  word,  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,  whatever  the  word  is.&quot;  Beth  turned  her  head  quickly  away  and  signalled  the  waiter  for  thecheck.  She   did  not  know  how  to  be  disagreed  with.  It  always  frightened  her.  But  that  was  all.  I  already  said  that  our  meeting  was  not  a  satisfying  one.  ack  Bolger's  pale-gray  eyes  caught  me  coming  toward  him  well  be-  fore  I  expected  them  to.  We  had  seen  each  other  only  twice.  Once  at  a  fancy  cocktail  party  given  by  an  author  I  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  Louis  to  wrest  a  book  from.  It  was  the  time  I  had  met  his  wife.  And  once  more,  at  the  Mayfair  Hotel,  when  I'd  taken  an  inept  swing  at  him,  and  he'd  slammed  me  against  a  wall  and  hit  me  in  the  face  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  Per-  haps  you  don't  forget  people  you  knock  around.  That  becomes  their  place  in  your  life.  I,  however,  find  it  hard  to  recognize  people  when  they're  not  where  I  believe  they  belong,  and  Mack  Bolger  belonged  in  [REDACTED]  Louis.  But  he  was  an  exception.  Mack's  eyes  fixed  on  me,  then  left  me,  scanned  the  crowd  uncomfortably,  then  found  me  again  as  I  approached  him.  His  large,  tanned  face  took  on  an  expression  of  stony  unsurprise,  as  if  he'd  known  I  was  somewhere  in  the  terminal  and  a  form  of  communication  had  al-  ready  begun  between  us.  Though,  if  any-  thing,  really,  his  face  looked  resigned-  resigned  to  me,  resigned  to  the  situations  the  world  foists  on  you  unwilling,  re-  signed  to  himself.  It  was  what  we  had  in  86  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  15,  2000  common,  though  neither  of  us  had  a  language  which  could  express  that.  So,  as  I  came  into  his  presence,  what  I  felt  was  an  unexpected  sympathy-for  him,  for  having  to  see  me  now.  And  ifI  could've  turned  and  walked  straight  away  from  him  I  would  have.  &quot;I  just  saw  you,&quot;  I  said  from  the  crowd,  five  feet  before  I  expected  to  speak.  My  voice  isn't  loud,  so  that  the  theatrically  nasal  male  voice  announcing  an  arrival  from  Poughkeepsie  on  Track  34  seemed  possibly  to  have  blotted  it  out.  &quot;Did  you  have  something  special  in  mind  to  tell  me,&quot;  Mack  Bolger  said.  His  eyes  cast  out  again  across  the  vaulted  hall,  where  Christmas  shoppers  and  overbun-  dled  passengers  were  moving  in  all  direc-  tions.  It  occurred  to  me-shockingly-  that  he  was  waiting  for  Beth,  and  that  in  a  moment's  time  I  would  be  standing  there  facing  her  and  Mack  together,  al-  most  as  I  had  in  [REDACTED]  Louis.  My  heart  ac-  tually  struck  two  profound  beats  deep  in  my  chest,  then  seemed  for  a  moment  to  stop  altogether.  &quot;How's  your  face?&quot;  Mack  said  without  emotion,  still  scanning  the  crowd.  &quot;I  didn't  hurt  you  too  bad,  did  I?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You've  grown  a  mustache.&quot;  His  eyes  did  not  flicker  toward  me.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  I'd  forgotten  about  it,  and  for  some  reason  felt  ashamed,  as  if  I  looked  absurd.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Mack  said,  &quot;good.&quot;  His  voice  was  the  one  you  would  use  to  speak  to  someone  in  line  beside  you  at  the  post  of-  fice,  someone  you  would  never  see  again.  Though  there  was  also,  just  barely  no-  ticeable,  a  hint  of  what  we  used  to  call  juiciness  in  his  speech,  some  minor  undis-  persable  moisture  in  his  cheek  that  one  heard  in  each  of  his  &quot;s&quot;s  and  &quot;f&quot;s.  It  was  unfortunate,  I  thought.  It  robbed  him  of  a  small  measure  of  gravity.  I  had  not  noticed  it  before,  in  the  few  overheated  moments  we'd  had  to  exchange  words.  He  looked  at  me  again,  hands  in  his  expensive  Italian  coat  pockets,  a  coat  that  had  heavy  dark  bone  buttons  and  long,  wide  lapels.  Too  stylish  for  him,  I  thought,  for  the  solid  man  he  was.  Mack  and  I  were  nearly  the  same  height.  But  he  was  in  every  way  larger  and  seemed  to  look  down  to  me-something  in  the  way  he  held  his  chin  up.  It  was  almost  the  opposite  of  the  way  Beth  looked  at  me.  &quot;I  live  here  now,&quot;  Mack  said,  without  really  addressing  me.  I  noticed  he  had  long,  dark,  almost  feminine  eyelashes  and  perfectly  sized,  perfectly  shaped  ears,  which  his  new  haircut  put  on  nice  dis-  play.  He  might've  been  forty-younger  than  I  am-and  looked  more  than  any-  thing  like  an  army  officer.  A  major.  I  thought  of  a  letter  Beth  had  shown  me,  written  by  Mack  to  her,  containing  the  phrase  &quot;I  want  to  kiss  you  all  over.  Yes  I  do.  Macklin.&quot;  Beth  had  rolled  her  eyes  when  she  showed  it  to  me.  At  another  time  she  had  talked  to  Mack  on  the  tele-  phone  while  we  were  in  bed  together  naked.  On  that  occasion  she'd  2ept  rolling  her  eyes  at  whatever  he  was  saying-  something,  I  gathered,  about  various  dif-  ficulties  he  was  having  at  work.  Once  we  even  engaged  in  a  sexual  act  while  she  talked  to  him.  I  could  hear  his  little,  buzzing,  fretful-sounding  voice  inside  the  receiver.  But  that  was  now  erased.  Everything  Beth  and  I  had  done  was  over.  All  that  remained  of  it  was  just  this-a  series  of  moments  in  the  great  train  terminal,  moments  which,  in  their  own  way  and  in  spite  of  everything,  seemed  correct,  sturdy,  almost  classical  in  character,  as  if  this  later  time  were  what  really  mattered,  whereas  the  previ-  ous,  passionate,  linked,  but  now  distant  moments  were  merely  preliminary.  &quot;Did  you  buy  a  place?&quot;  I  said  to  Mack  Bolger,  and  unexpectedly  felt  a  widely  spreading  vacancy  open  all  around  in-  side  of  me.  It  was  such  a  preposterous  thing  to  say.  Mack's  eyes  moved  slowly  to  me,  and  his  impassive  expression,  which  had  seemed  to  me  to  signify  one  thing-res-  ignation-began  to  signify  something  different.  I  knew  this  because  a  small  cleft  appeared  in  his  chin.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said  and  let  his  eyes  stay  fixed  on  me.  People  were  shouldering  past  us.  I  could  smell  some  woman's  heavy,  hot-feeling  perfume  around  my  face.  Music  had  commenced  in  the  rotunda,  making  the  moment  feel  clamorous,  suffocating:  &quot;We  three  kings  of  [REDACTED]  are  ...&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Mack  Bolger  said  again,  very  emphatically,  spitting  the  word  from  between  his  straight,  white,  nearly  flawless  teeth.  He  had  grown  up  on  a  farm  in  [REDACTED],  had  gone  to  a  small  college  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  football  scholarship,  had  then  taken  an  M.B.A.  at  Harvard;  had  done  well.  All  that  life,  all  that  experience  was  being  brought  into  play  now  as  self-control,  dignity.  It  was  strange  that  someone  would  call  him  a  dog  when  he  wasn't  that  at  all.  He  was  extremely  admirable.  &quot;I  bought  an  apart-  ment  on  the  Upper  East  Side,&quot;  he  said  suddenly  and  blinked  his  eyes  very  rap-  idly.  &quot;I  moved  out  in  September.  I  have  a  new  job.  I'm  living  alone.  Beth's  not  here.  She's  in  [REDACTED],  where  she's  miserable-or  I  hope  she  is.  We're  getting  adivorce.  I'm  waiting  for  my  daughter  to  come  down  from  boarding  school.  Is  that  all  right?  Does  that  seem  all  right  to  you?  Does  that  satisfy  your  curiosity?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  Mack  was  not  angry.  He  was,  instead,  a  thing  that  anger  had  no  part  of  or  at  least  had  long  been  absent  from,  something  akin  toex-  haustion,  where  the  words  you  say  are  the  only  true  words  you  car  say.  Myself,  I  did  not  think  I'd  ever  felt  that  way.  Al-  ways  for  me  there  had  been  a  choice.  &quot;Do  you  understand  [REDACTED];  Mack  Bol-  ger  said.  His  thick  athlete's  brow  slowly  furrowed,  as  if  hewere  studying  a  creature  he  didn't  entirely  understand,  an  anom-  aly  of  some  kind,  which  perhaps  I  was.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  he  said,  and  seemed  suddenly  embarrassed.  He  looked  away,  out  over  the  crowd  of  swarming  heads  and  faces,  as  if  he'd  just  sensed  someone  coming.  I  looked  toward  where  he  was  looking.  No  one  was  approaching  us.  Not  Beth,  not  a  daughter.  Not  anyone.  Perhaps,  I  thought,  it  was  all  a  lie.  Or  perhaps,  I  thought,  for  a  moment  I  had  lost  consciousness,  and  this  was  not  Mack  Bolger  at  all,  and  I  was  dreaming  everything.  &quot;Do  you  think  there  could  be  someplace  else  you  could  go  now?&quot;  Mack  said.  His  big,  tanned,  handsome  face  looked  imploring  and  exhausted.  Once  Beth  had  said  Mack  and  I  looked  alike.  But  we  did  not.  That  had  been  her  fan-  tasy.  Without  really  looking  at  me  again  he  said,  &quot;I  would  have  a  hard  time  intro-  ducing  you  to  my  daughter.  I'm  sure  you  can  imagine  that.&quot;  «Yes,&quot;  I  said.  I  looked  around  again,  and  this  time  I  did  see  a  pretty  blond  girl  standing  in  the  crowd,  watching  us  from  several  steps  away.  She  was  holding  a  red  nylon  backpack  by  its  straps.  Something  was  causing  her  to  stay  away.  Possibly  her  father  had  signalled  her  not  to  come  near  us.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  said.  And  by  speaking  I  somehow  made  the  girl's  face  break  into  a  wide  smile,  a  smile  I  recognized.  &quot;Nothing's  happened  here,&quot;  Mack  said  suddenly  to  me.  He  was  staring  at  his  daughter.  From  the  pocket  of  his  overcoat  he  had  produced  a  tiny  white  box  wrapped  and  tied  with  a  red  bow.  &quot;I'm  sorry?&quot;  I  said.  I  was  leaving.  People  were  swirling  noisily  around  us.  The  mu-  sic  seemed  louder.  I  thought  perhaps  I'd  misunderstood  him.  &quot;I  didn't  hear  you.&quot;  I  smiled  in  an  entirely  involuntary  way.  &quot;Nothing's  happened  today,&quot;  Mack  Bolger  said.  &quot;Don't  go  away  thinking  anything  happened  here.  Between  you  and  me,  I  mean.  Nothing's  happened.  I'm  sorry  I  ever  met  you,  that's  all.  Sorry  I  ever  had  to  touch  you.  You  make  me  feel  ashamed.&quot;  He  still  had  the  unfortunate  dampness  with  his  &quot;s&quot;s.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  right.  I  can  understand.&quot;  He  simply  stepped  away  from  me  and  began  saying  something  toward  the  blond  girl  standing  in  the  crowd  smiling.  What  he  said  was  &quot;Boy,  oh  boy,  do  you  look  like  a  million  bucks.&quot;  I  walked  on  toward  Billy's  then,  to  the  new  arrangement  I'd  made  that  would  take  me  on  into  the  evening.  I  had  been  wrong,  of  course,  about  the  linkage  of  moments,  and  about  what  was  prelimi-  nary  and  what  was  primary.  It  was  a  mis-  take,  one  I  would  not  make  again.  None  of  this  was  a  good  thing  to  have  done.  Though  it  is  such  a  large  city  here,  so  much  larger  than,  say,  [REDACTED]  Louis,  I  knew  I  would  not  see  him  again.  