    B  egin,  then,  with  the  ice-cream  dishes,  carried  from  the  dining  room  into  the  narrow  kitchen  on  a  Sunday  night,  the  rest  of  the  family  still  sitting  con-  tented  around  the  lace-covered  table,  her  father's  cigarette  smoke  just  beginning  to  drift  into  the  air  that  was  still  rich  from  the  smell  of  the  roast,  and  the  roasted  po-  tatoes,  the  turnips  and  carrots  and  green  beans,  the  biscuits  and  the  Sunday-only  perfume  of  her  mother  and  sisters.  Car-  ried  just  two  dishes  at  a  time  because  this  was  the  good  set,  cabbage  roses  with  gold  trim.  Two  bowls  at  a  time,  silver  spoons  in-  side,  carried  carefully  and  carefully  placed  on  the  drainboard  beside  the  soapy  wa-  ter  where  the  dinner  plates  were  already  soaking,  her  mother  being  a  great  believer  in  soaking,  whether  children  or  dishes  or  clothes,  or  souls.  Let  it  soak:  the  stained  blouse,  the  bruised  knee,  the  sin-send-  ing  them  into  their  rooms  with  a  whole  rosary  to  pray,  on  their  knees,  and  a  full  hour  in  which  to  do  it.  She  was  the  youngest  child,  the  third  girl  with  three  brothers,  and  since  the  boys  were  excused  and  the  kitchen  too  small,  their  mother  said,  to  hold  a  pair  of  sisters  in  it  together,  this  final  task,  the  clearing  of  the  ice-cream  dishes,  was  hers  alone.  Two  at  a  time,  she  gathered  the  plates  while  the  others  sat,  contented,  limp,  stupefied  with  food,  while  she  her-  self  felt  her  stomach  straining  against  the  now  tight  waist  of  her  good  dress,  felt  her  legs  grown  heavy  from  all  she  had  eaten.  Sunday  dinner  was  the  only  meal  they  had  with  their  father,  who  worked  two  jobs  to  keep  them  all  fed  (that  was  the  way  it  was  put  by  mother  and  father  both,  without  variance),  and  the  bounty  of  the  spread  seemed  to  be  their  parents'  defiant  proof  of  the  man's  long  week  of  labor.  They  always  ate  too  much  at  Sunday  din-  ner  and  they  always  had  dessert.  Pie  on  the  first  Sunday  of  the  month,  then  cake,  ice  cream,  stewed  fruit-one  Sunday  after  the  other  and  always  in  that  same  rotation.  Ice  cream  being  the  pinnacle  for  82  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  10,  2000  FICTION  ENOUGH  BY  ALICE  McDERMOTT  her,  stewed  fruit  the  depths  from  which  she  would  have  to  rise,  through  pie  (if  mincemeat,  hardly  astep  in  the  right  di-  rection,  if  blueberry,  more  encouraging),  then  cake-always  yellow  with  eggs  and  dusted  with  powdered  sugar-and  then  at  last,  again,  ice  cream,  store-bought  or  homemade,  it  hardly  made  a  difference  to  she  who  was  told  once  a  month  that  a  lady  takes  a  small  spoonful,  swallows  it,  and  then  takes  another.  She  does  not  load  the  spoon  up  and  then  run  the  stuff  in  and  out  of  her  mouth,  studying  each  time  the  shape  her  lips  have  made  (&quot;Look  how  cross-eyed  she  gets  when  she's  gaz-  ing  at  it&quot;).  A  lady  doesn't  want  to  show  her  tongue  at  the  dinner  table.  Carefully,  she  collected  the  bowls  and  carried  them  two  by  two  into  the  narrow  kitchen.  She  placed  one  on  the  drain-  board  and  then  lifted  the  spoon  out  of  the  other  and,  always,  with  a  glance  over  her  shoulder,  licked  the  spoon,  front  and  back,  and  then  raised  the  delicate  bowl  to  her  chin  and  licked  that,  too,  licked  the  cabbage  roses  and  the  pale  spaces  in  between,  long  strokes  of  the  tongue  from  gold-edged  rim  to  gold-edged  rim  and  then  another  tour  around  the  mid-  dle.  Place  it  down  softly  and  pick  up  the  next.  The  creamy  dregs  spotting  her  nose  and  her  cheeks,  vanilla  or  chocolate,  peach  or  strawherry-strawberry  the  best  because  her  brothers  and  a  sister  al-  ways  left  behind  any  big  pieces  of  the  fruit.  Heel  of  her  hand  to  the  sticky  tip  of  her  nose  (lick  that,  too)  and  then  back  into  the  dining  room  again  for  the  next  two  bowls.  Oh,  it  was  good,  as  good  as  the  whole  heaping  bowl  that  had  been  filled  by  her  father  at  the  head  of  the  table,  passed  hand  to  hand  by  her  sisters  and  brothers,  and  set  before  her.  xtrapolate,  then,  from  the  girlhood  ritual  (not  to  say,  of  course,  that  it  ended  with  her  girlhood)  to  what  came  to  be  known  as  her  trouble  with  the  couch.  Trouble  o7  the  couch  would  have  been  more  accurate,  she  understood  later,  when  she  had  a  sense  of  humor  about  these  things  that  at  the  time  had  no  hu-  mor  in  them  at  all.  But  such  precision  was  the  last  thing  her  family  would  have  sought,  not  in  these  matters.  Her  trouble  with  the  couch,  it  was  called.  Mother  walking  into  what  should  have  been  the  empty  apartment  except  that  the  boiler  at  the  school  had  broken  and  the  pastor  had  sent  them  all  home  and  here  she  was  with  the  boy  from  upstairs,  side  by  side  on  the  couch,  her  two  cheeks  flushed  fever  pink  and  her  mouth  a  bleary,  full-  blown  rose,  and  her  mother  would  have  her  know  (once  the  boy  had  slipped  out  the  door)  that  she  wasn't  born  yester-  day  and  Glory  Be  to  God  fourteen  years  old  was  a  fine  age  to  be  starting  this  nonsense  and  wasn't  it  a  good  thing  that  tomorrow  was  Saturday  and  the  confes-  sionals  at  church  would  be  fully  manned.  She'd  had  a  good  soaking  in  recrimina-  tions  all  that  evening  and  well  into  Sat-  urday  afternoon  when  she  finished  the  rosary  the  priest  himself  had  prescribed,  the  end  coming  only  after  she  returned  from  the  Communion  rail  on  Sunday  morning  and  her  mother  caught  and  held  her  eye.  A  stewed-fruit  Sunday  no  doubt.  Her  oldest  sister  found  her  next,  on  the  couch  with  her  high-school  sweet-  heart,  midafternoon  once  again-their  mother,  widowed  now,  off  working  in  an  office-and  the  first  four  buttons  of  her  dress  undone,  the  lace  bodice  of  her  pale-pink  slip  all  exposed.  And  then  not  a  month  or  two  later  that  same  sister  found  her  there  with  another  boy,  his  head  in  her  lap  and  his  hand  brushing  up  and  down  from  her  ankle  to  her  knees.  Then  there  was  that  Saturday  night  during  the  war  when  her  oldest  brother,  too  drunk  to  go  home  to  his  new  wife  on  the  next  block,  let  himself  in  and  found  her  stretched  out  on  the  couch  in  the  embrace  of  some  midshipman  who,  it  was  clear,  despite  their  quick  rearranging  of  clothes,  had  his  fingers  tangled  up  in  her  garter.  There  were  buttons  undone  &amp;  that  time,  too,  and  yet  again  when  she  o  was  spied  on  by  the  second  sister,  who  2  never  did  marry  herself  but  who  had  an  &amp;  eyeful,  let  me  tell  you-a  marine,  this  €  time,  his  mouth,  to  put  it  delicately,  =&gt;  where  her  corsage  should  have  been  and  €  her  own  hands  twisted  into  his  hair  as  if  2  to  hold  him  there-which  led  to  such  a  §  harangue  about  her  trouble  with  the  3  3  couch  that,  finally,  even  her  old  mother  O  was  moved  to  say  that  there  was  a  war  «  on,  after  all.  Later,  her  best  girlfriend  joked  that  maybe  she  would  want  to  bring  that  buch  along  with  her  on  her  wedding  JEFF  BROUWS,  &quot;  0“  night.  And  joked  again,  nine  months  to  the  week  later,  when  her  first  son  was  born,  that  she  didn't  seem  to  need  that  old  couch  after  all.  There  were  seven  children  born  alto-  gether,  the  first  followed  and  each  of  the  others  preceded  by  a  miscarriage,  so  that  there  were  thirteen  pregnancies  in  all,  every  loss  mourned  so  ferociously  that  both  her  husband  and  her  mother  ad-  vised,  each  time,  not  to  tryagain,  each  birth  celebrated  with  a  christening  party  that  packed  the  small  house-made  smaller  by  the  oversized  floral  couch  and  high-backed  chairs  and  elaborate  lamps  she  had  chosen-and  spilled  out  into  the  narrow  yard  and  breezeway,  where  there  would  be  dancing,  if  the  weather  allowed.  A  phonograph  placed  behind  the  screen  in  the  kitchen  window  and  the  records  going  all  through  the  long  af-  ternoon,  and  on  into  the  evening.  Youd.  see  her  there  after  the  last  guest  had  gone,  the  baby  on  her  shoulder  and  maybe  another  child  on  her  hip,  dancing  to  something  slow  and  reluctant  and  melancholy  (&quot;One  for  my  baby,  and  one  more  for  the  road&quot;).  Lipstick  and  face  powder  on  the  white  christening  gown  that  night,  as  well  as  the  scent  of  the  party  itself,  cigarette  smoke  and  perfume  and  the  cocktails  on  her  breath.  She  was  a  mother  forever  rubbing  a  licked  finger  to  her  children's  cheeks,    scrubbing  at  the  pink  traces  of  her  own  kisses,  forever  swelling  up  again  with  the  next  birth.  Kids  in  her  lap  and  her  arms  wrapped  around  them  even  after  their  limbs  had  grown  longer  than  her  own.  The  boys,  before  she  knew  it,  lift,  ing  her  off  her  feet  when  she  took  them  in  her  arms.  he  was  forty-six  when  she  gave  birth  to  the  last,  and  he  was  eighteen  and  on  a  weekend  home  from  college  when  he  recognized,  for  the  first  time  in  his  life,  what  the  sighs  and  the  stirrings  coming  from  his  parents'  bedroom  on  that  Saturday  morning  actually  signi-  fied.  (He  dida  quick  calculation  of  their  ages,  just  to  be  sure  he  had  it  right  and  then  thought,  Still?,  amazed  and  a  little  daunted.)  For  the  rest  of  the  weekend,  he  imagined  ways  he  might  rib  them  about  it,  although  he  couldn't  bring  him-  self  to  come  out  with  anything,  knowing  full  well  that  even  the  most  good-natured  mention  of  what  went  on  behind  their  bedroom  door  could  get  him  the  back  of  his  father's  hand-or,  worse  yet,  cause  a  blush  to  rise  from  his  own  cheeks  well  before  he'd  managed  to  raise  any  kindof  glow  in  theirs.  And  there  was  the  Christmas,  some  years  later,  when  one  of  them  had  given  their  parents  a  nostalgic  collection  of  forties  music  and,  listening  to  Bing  Crosby  sing  in  his  slow,  sleepy  way,  &quot;Kiss  me  once  and  kiss  me  twice  (and  kiss  me  once  again),&quot;  hadn't  their  mother  said,  for  all  assembled  to  hear,  &quot;If  you  don't  turn  this  off,  I'm  going  to  have  to  find  a  place  to  be  alone  withyour  father.&quot;  And  hadn't  he  and  his  siblings,  every  one  of  them  well  versed  by  then  in  matters  of  love  and  sex,  sat  dumbfounded,  calculat-  ing,  no  doubt  ...  seventy-one,  seventy-  o  ...  still?  Shades  of  the  trouble  with  the  couch,  she  took  her  husband's  hand  in  his  last  days  and  unbuttoned  her  blouse  and  didn't  seem  to  care  a  bit  who  saw  her,  doctor  or  nurse,  son  or  daughter  or  grand-  child-or  older  sister  who'd  never  mar-  ried  herself  and  couldn't  help  but  say,  out  in  the  waiting  room,  &quot;Now,  [REDACTED];  She  leaned  forward,  now  and  again,  to  whisper  to  him,  even  after  he  was  well  past  hearing,  her  open  lips  brushing  both  the  surgical  tape  that  secured  the  respi-  rator  in  his  mouth  and  the  stubbly  gray  beard  of  his  cheek.  Growing  plump  in  her  widowhood,  though  she  was  the  first  to  admit  she'd  never  been  what  you  would  call  thin,  she  travelled  in  busloads  of  retirees  mostly  widows,  although  there  was  the  occasional  man  or  two-only  missing  a  museum  trip  or  a  foliage  tour  or  a  lun-  cheon  (with  a  cocktail)  at  this  or  that  historic  site  or  country  inn  if  a  grand-  child  was  in  need  of  minding.  What  she  could  do  best-her  own  daughters  mar-  velled  at  it,  who  else  would  have  the  patience-was  sit  for  hours  and  hours  at  a  time  with  a  colicky  baby  over  her  shoulder  or  a  worn-out  toddler  on  her  knee  and  talk  or  sing.  She  told  nonsense  stories,  more  sound  than  substance,  or  sang  every  tune  in  her  lifetime  reper-  toire,  from  Beatles  songs  to  ancient  hymns,  hypnotizing  the  children  some-  how  (her  sons  and  daughters  were  sure  of  it)  into  sleep,  or  sometimes  just  a  dazed  contentedness,  tucked  under  her  arm  or  under  her  chin,  seconds,  min-  utes,  then  hours  ticking  by,  the  bars  of  summer  or  winter,  late-afternoon  or  early-morning  sunlight  moving  across  them,  across  the  length  of  a  room,  and  neither  of  them,  adult  or  child,  seeming  to  mark  the  time  gone  by.  But  takea  look  in  your  freezer  after  she's  gone,  the  daughters  reported  to  one  another  and  to  the  better-liked  sisters-in-law  as  well.  Nearly  a  full  gal-  lon  eaten-or  all  but  a  final  spoonful  so  she  didn't  have  to  put  the  carton  in  the  trash  and  give  herself  away.  She's  wel-  come  to  it,  of  course,  but  at  her  age  it's  a  weight  thing.  She  needs  to  watch  her  weight.  It's  the  deceptiveness,  too,  don't  you  see.  What  does  she  eat  when  she's  alone?  Alone,  in  an  apartment  now,  ever  since  the  night  a  stranger  crept  up  the  breezeway,  broke  the  kitchen  window,  and  made  off  with  her  purse,  the  por-  table  TV,  and  the  boxed  silver  in  the  dining  room  which  had  been  her  moth-  er's,  she  licked  chocolate  pudding  from  the  back  of  a  spoon,  sherbet,  gelato,  sor-  bet,  ice  cream,  of  course.  She  scraped  the  sides  of  the  carton,  ran  a  finger  around  the  rim.  On  visits  to  her  out-of-state  children  she'd  get  up  in  the  night,  stand  by  the.  light  of  the  refrigerator,  take  a  few  table-  spoons  from  the  gallon,  or  a  single  ice-  cream  bar,  but  always  end  up  going  back  for  more.  A  daughter-in-law  found  her  one  morning,  2  [REDACTED],  with  the  last  choc-  olate/vanilla  ice-cream  cup  and  a  tiny  wooden  spoon-leftovers  from  the  grandchild's  birthday  party  she  had  made  the  trip  specifically  to  attend-  and  gave  her  such  a  lecture,  as  she  put  it  when  she  got  home,  that  you'd  think  she'd  been  shooting  heroin.  It  was  the  weight  that  concerned  them,  said  her  children,  conferring.  They  were  afraid  it  was  the  weight  that  was  keeping  her  these  days  from  those  senior  trips  she  used  to  love,  from  the  winter  vacations  in  [REDACTED]  she'd  once  looked  forward  to.  Now  that  the  grandchildren  were  grown  out  of  the  need  for  a  sitter,  she  should  be  doing  more  of  those  things,  not  fewer.  They  solicited  a  talking-to  for  their  mother  from  her  doctor,  who  in-  stead  reminded  them  all  that  she  was  past  eighty  and  healthy  enough  and  free  to  do,  or  not  do,  what  she  liked.  They  took  to  stopping  by  to  see  her,  on  lunch  hours,  or  before  going  to  the  grocery  store,  keeping  their  car  keys  in  their  hands,  and  urging  her  to  turn  off  the  television,  to  plan  something,  to  do  something.  Her  grandchildren,  driving  cars  now,  asked  herout  to  their  kinds  of  places,  treated  her  to  frothy  lattes  topped  with  whipped  cream  that  would  repeat  on  her  the  rest  of  the  afternoon  and  on  into  the  evening,  despite  bicarbs  and  antacids,  until  she  brought  herself  to  tell  them  when  they  called,  'Thank  you,  dear,  but  I'm  quite  content  at  home.&quot;  Peach,  strawberry,  and  reliable  va-  nilla.  [REDACTED]  road  and  butter  pecan  and  mint  chocolate  chip.  Looking  at  ninety  and  still,  still,  the  last  thing  she  feels  at  the  end  of  each  day  is  that  longing  to  wrap  her  legs  around  him,  around  some-  one.  The  pleasure  of  the  taste,  of  load-  ing  up  a  spoon  and  finishing  it  bit  by  bit,  and  then  taking  another  spoonful  and  another-one  kind  of  pleasure,  en-  hanced  by  stealth  and  guilt,  when  itis  someone  else's  carton,  someone  else's  home  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  an-  other  kind  when  it's  her  own  and  she  carries  her  bowl,  in  full  light,  to  the  couch  before  the  television  in  the  liv-  ing  room.  Forbidden  youthful  passion  and  domestic  married  love,  something  like  that,  anyway,  if  you  want  to  ex-  trapolate.  If  you  want  to  begin  with  the  ice-cream  dishes  licked  clean  by  a  girl  who  is  now  the  old  woman  past  all  usefulness,  closing  her  eyes  at  the  first  taste.  If  you  want  to  make  a  metaphor  out  of  her  lifelong  cravings,  something  she  is  not  inclined  to  do.  Pleasure  is  pleasure.  A  remnant  of  strawberries,  a  young  man's  hands,  a  newborn  in  your  arms,  or  your  own  child's  changing  face.  Your  lips  to  the  familiar  stubble  of  your  husband's  cheek.  Your  tongue  to  the  last  vein  of  fudge  in  the  empty  car-  ton.  Pleasure  is  pleasure.  If  you  have  an  appetite  for  it,  you'll  find  there's  plenty.  Plenty  to  satisfy  you-lick  the  back  of  the  spoon.  Take  another,  and  another.  Plenty.  Never  enough.  