  A  HUNDRED  AND  ELEVEN  YEARS  WITHOUT  A  CHAUFFEUR  Our  grandmothers,  our  great-  grandfathers,  and  all  our  other  antecedents:  they  lived  ordinary  lives,  had  pains,  went  to  work,  talked,  kept  busy,  had  sex-full  days  and  full  nights,  as  long  as  all  that  lasted.  I  see  no  reason  to  drool  over  them.  They  did  not  drool  over  us.  They  thought  of  the  future,  of  the  generations  to  come,  but  only  in  the  most  general  terms,  obviously.  When  they  wrote  memoirs  and  let-  ters,  we  know  that  it  is  not  the  whole  story.  When  they  left  only  their  pho-  tographs  and  a  few  imputed  sayings  and  habits,  still  less  have  we  got  the  whole  story.  We  have  their  birth  and  marriage  records  and  their  tombstones  in  some  country  churchyard,  as  in  the  case  of  my  forebears.  When  it  came  to  producing  photo-  graphs  for  my  biographer,  Joe,  there  was  little  to  go  on.  I  hadn't  looked  them  over  for  at  least  twenty  years.  They  had  been  tucked  into  a  drawer  in  a  spare  bedroom,  together  with  a  tiny  musical  box  that  still  played  a  tinkly  tune  when  wound  up,  a  few  old  reels  of  black  cotton,  a  tin  box  of  [REDACTED]  pencils  (unused,  a  very  useful  find).  There  was  also  a  piece  of  stone  from  an  excavation  of  antiquity,  but  which?  I  took  out  the  photographs  and  spread  them  on  a  table.  Is  that  all?  I  could  have  sworn  there  had  been  more.  In  fact,  I  knew  there  had  been  more.  Where  were  they  all?  People,  even  one's  friends,  dogo  off  with  things.  But  their  main  objects  of  acquisition  are  books.  Guests  go  off  with  books  out  of  the  guest  room,  but  not  photos,  not  old  photos  of  dull  people  of  modest  means.  I  looked  at  the  photographs  one  by  one,  to  make  sure  I  wasn't  dreaming.  Gladys  was  there,  the  wife  of  my  mother's  uncle  Jim.  Jim  was  sitting  with  a  hand  on  his  knee,  a  watch  chain  across  his  belly,  while  Gladys  stood  beside  him,  one  hand  on  his  shoulder.  Beside  Gladys  was  a  pho-  tographer's  prop-a  pillar  surmounted  by  a  bunch  of  flowers.  Date  circa  1860.  78  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  5,  2000  BY  MURIEL  SPARK  Next,  Mary-Ann,  Nancy,  Maud,  and  my  great-grandmother  Sarah  Rowbot-  tom,  who  lived  to  a  hundred  and  five,  and  here  shows  that  possibility  already  at  sixty-five.  They  are  wearing  their  best  frocks,  tightly  corseted  waists,  promi-  nent  busts,  as  breasts  were  called,  lots  of  rowsof  lace,  and  always  a  locket  hang-  ing  round  their  necks,  enclosing  God  knows  whose  photos,  whose  locks  of  hair.  Mary-Ann,  who  was  the  first  to  get  married,  wore  a  dark  brooch.  Their  hair  was  done  up,  all  in  order.  Lower  middle  class  of  those  days,  aspiring.  They  were  corn  dealers  and  managed  quite  well.  They  lie  in  Vicarage  Road  Church-  yard,  Watford,  every  one.  They  are  marked  by  two  stones:  Deeply  Mourned.  I  explained  them  to  Joe,  and  added  what  I  knew  of  family  lore.  Next  came  my  mother,  born  a  hun-  dred  and  eleven  years  back,  dead  these  twenty-seven  years.  And  a  cousin  whose  name  I  can't  recall,  but  who,  I  know,  was  very  ambitious.  Alas,  she  never  achieved  her  ambition,  which  was  to  own  a  Rolls-  Royce  with  a  chauffeur  to  drive  her  from  shop  to  shop,  as  was  possible  in  those  days.  This  cousin-what  was  her  name?  Oh,  well,  she  became  a  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  wife  ofan  accountant,  and  got  as  far  as  [REDACTED]  on  the  Golden  Arrow  one  year.  No  Rolls,  no  chauffeur.  But  where  was  that  other  photo  of  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  the  one  that  I  remem-  bered  well  because  it  was  so  uncharacter-  istically  informal,  where  she  was  stand-  ing  over  her  sewing  machine?  She  was  slightly  bent,  in  profile,  slim-waisted  and  handsome.  Someone  with  a  camera  had  caught  her  examining  the  bobbin  of  her  beloved  treadle-operated  Singer.  Something  was  wrong  with  the  ma-  chine,  and  Mrs.  [REDACTED]-what  was  her  name?-was  looking  intently  at  it.  An  enchanting  photograph.  It  was  gone.  Someone  had  removed  it.  The  same  with  a  few  others  I  now  re-  membered.  My  paternal  grandmother,  from  a  Jewish  family  in  [REDACTED],  very  blond  and  Polish-looking,  her  hair  piled  and  plaited,  not  at  all  Jewish  to  look  at,  unlike  my  grandfather,  with  his  lovely  smile  inside  his  beard;  he  was  so  like  my  father,  who,  however,  was  always  clean-  shaven.  My  grandmother  Henrietta's  beautiful  photograph  was  missing.  I  re-  membered  her  so  well  in  the  photo-  graph,  never  having  known  her  in  the  flesh.  I  remembered  the  large  space  be-  tween  the  eyes,  which  I  have  inherited.  Blue  eyes.  Where  had  she  gone?  I  thought  of  all  the  people  who  had  slept  in  the  spare  room,  and  of  others  who  had  been  within  easy  access  to  it.  Some  dozens  of  friends  over  the  years.  Who  would  have  an  interest  in  those  meaningless  photographs?  Sometimes,  because  I  am  a  writer,  journalists  have  been  known  to  snaffle  a  photograph  of  me  without  permission,  but  these  old  Victorian  and  Edwardian  pictures,  with-  out  even  artistic  merit?  I  concentrated  on  the  bundle  of  pho-  tographs  that  were  left  to  me.  They  weren't  a  bad  selection,  enough  to  illus-  trate  my  long-ago  origins  and,  in  some  cases,  my  memories.  I  gave  them  to  Joe  and  put  away  the  rest.  I  had  other  things  to  think  of.  amian  de  Dogherty-oh,  my  God,  I  haven't  thought  of  him  for  five  z  years.  Before  that,  he  saw  to  it  that  I  3  thought  of  him  every  month,  if  not  every  day.  I  lived  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  time.  According  to  his  spin,  or,  rather,  one  of  his  spins,  the  family  were  Huguenots  originating  from  Ireland,  taking  refuge  in  [REDACTED];  members  of  the  family  were  later  in  the  service  of  Maria  Theresa  of  Austria,  who  conferred  on  them  a  prince-  dom.  Being  modest  people,  they  accepted  :;  to  be  merely  barons,  and  he,  the  last  sur-  vivor  of  the  family,  was  Baron  Damian  de  Dogherty.  Damian  was,  I  must  say,  a  lot  of  fun.  U  N  T  I  T  L  E  D  &quot;  (  1  9  9  9  )  /  R  I  C  C  O  /  M  A  R  E  S  C  A  G  DECKER  JOSEPH  HE  That  is,  he  was  fun  at  the  dinner  table  and  of  diminishing  fun  elsewhere.  He  was  a  positive  bore  on  thebeach,  where  he  would  leave  whatever  companion  he  was  with  (he  wastwo  ways)  and  take  his  good  slinky  body  after  strange  gods  such  as  arose  from  the  glittering  sea.  One  of  Damian's  many  curious  char-  acteristics  was  his  habit  of  suddenly  fall-  ing  asleep.  I  believe  itis  called  narco-  lepsy.  It  might  be  at  a  quiet  meeting  of  friends  sitting  around  a  table  drinking  in  a  mild  way,  or  in  a  library  while  he  was  taking  notes  from  a  book  (he  loved  to  study),  or  sitting  beside  you  on  a  sofa.  Suddenly,  he  would  be  gone  into  sleep.  It  was  quite  a  healthy  sleep,  and  eventu-  ally  his  friends  gave  up  being  alarmed.  I  always  understood  this  trait  as  a  reac-  tion  to  reality;  all  in  a  moment,  I  felt,  something  would  cause  him  to  face  an  unacceptable  truth,  and  he  just  tuned  out.  I  still  think  I  was  right,  there.  His  narcosis  was  at  least  partly  psychological.  In  my  early  acquaintance  with  Da-     mian,  I  took  his  story  at  its  charming  face  value.  I  addressed  him  on  the  envelopes  of  my  letters  as  Baron  de  Dogherty,  strange  as  it  sounded.  His  name  was  not  to  be  found  in  any  of  the  reference  books  for  the  titles  and  old  families  of  Europe,  although  he  claimed  that  it  was  to  be  found  somewhere.  This  in-  formation,  unsought,  went  unchecked  so  far  as  I  was  concerned.  According  to  those  who  had  known  him  some  years  before,  he  had  been  married  to  a  rich  Peruvian  girl.  They  had  gone  their  sep-  arate  ways.  It  was  said  that  she  was  a  tal-  ented  photographer,  still  practicing  in  [REDACTED].  I  took  in  this  fact  vaguely;  only  afterward  did  I  have  some  reason  to  bring  it  to  mind.  He  practiced  as  a  genealogist  some-  times.  I  knew  he  had  many  French  and  Italian  friends.  Some  of  the  latter  were  delighted  when  Damian  &quot;dis-  covered&quot;  their  noble  origins.  They  were  ableto  call  themselves  &quot;Baron,&quot;  too.  I  tried  to  get  to  his  real  personality,  but  after  a  while  I  realized  that  there  was  none.  He  was,  in  fact,  pure  fake.  To  a  considerable  extent,  I  think,  Da-  mian  believed  his  own  stories.  He  was  trying  to  write  an  autobiography,  for  which  reason,  I  think,  he  rang  me  or  dropped  in  frequently.  &quot;I've  come  to  the  bit  when  my  aunt  La  Comtesse  Clémentinede  Vevey  came  to  visit  me  at  school  in  Switzerland.&quot;  &quot;I  believe  you  went  to  school  in  Salt  Lake  City,&quot;  I  said,  having  been  so  in-  formed  by  one  of  his  schoolmates.  &quot;Oh,  that  was  earlier.&quot;  In  my  role  as  literary  adviser,  I  sug-  gested  that  he  should  turn  his  auto-  biography  into  a  novel.  He  adopted  this  suggestion.  Another  strange  fact:  everybody  liked  to  be  with  Damian  while  he  was  alive;  he  was  greatly  sought  after  for  weekends,  dinner  parties,  and  simple  picnics  in  the  country;  however,  in  spite  of  his  decided  popularity,  when  he  died  he  was  not  mourned  in  any  sort  of  proportion  to  the  force  of  his  at-  tractiveness  in  life.  He  was  not  grieved  over  at  all.  He  was  here,  he  made  us  smile,  nobody  believed  a  word  he  said,  then  he  was  gone.  hortly  after  his  death,  I  was  ina  bookshop  in  Ghent,  rummaging  through  some  old  prints.I  came  across  a  pile  of  photographs,  all  in  quite  ornate  frames.  People  would  buy  these,  the  owner  was  explaining  to  me,  precisely  for  the  frames.  &quot;But  personally,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  also  find  the  photographs  very  attrac-  tive,  very  nostalgic.&quot;  I  found  myself  looking  at  my  hard-working  grandmother,  my  great-aunts  Nancy  and  Sally.  There  was  Mary-Ann.  And  Sarah  Rowbottom,  stout  and  bold.  And  Gladys  with  a  regal  sash  across  her  bosom.  But  these  were  not  the  original  faded  sepia  images.  They  were  blacker  and  whiter,  with  an  attempt  at  a  sort  of  golden-brown  haze.  &quot;Where  did  these  come  from?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  bought  them  in  England,&quot;  said  the  owner.  &quot;They  were  in  a  house  sale.&quot;  There  was  something  wrong  with  my  grandmother.  My  God,  she  was  wearing  a  tiara  and  round  her  neck  was  the  unmistakable  Order  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  an  ornate  necklace  with  a  ram's  skin  hanging  from  it.  The  same  sort  of  thing  with  my  great-aunt  Nancy.  Gone  was  her  ebony  locket,  and  in  its  place  was  a  medal  that  was  later  identified  as  the  Order  of  the  Black  Eagle,  a  Prus-  sian  order  exclusive  to  royal  families.  My  humble  relatives,  one  by  one,  had  been  exalted  with  Orders  and  Gar-  ters,  ropes  of  pearls  (my  grandmother  Henrietta  had  seven  strands),  bejewelled  tiaras.  My  great-uncle  Jim  had  the  Manchurian  Order  of  the  Dragon  on  his  breast.  &quot;Who  were  these  people?&quot;  I  inquired.  &quot;Oh,  they  are  the  noble  relations  of  the  late  Baron  de  Dogherty,&quot;  said  the  owner.  'These  photographs  were  on  the  walls  of  his  study.  No  great  interest  except  for  the  frames.  He  was  very  well  connected,  of  course,so  perhaps  historians  ...&quot;  I  bought  the  pictures,  without  the  frames,  for  a  price  that  was  too  high,  al-  though,  according  to  the  owner,  it  was  too  low  -the  usual  thing.  On  examination  by  a  photographic  expert,  and  comparison  with  the  photos  that  had  not  been  stolen,  it  was  plain  that  they  had  been  rephotographed,  with  those  fake  insignia,  about  which  Da-  mian  had  been  a  real  expert,  tricked  in.  He  had  also  learned  something  from  his  marriage  to  that  Peruvian  photogra-  pher;  it  had  not  been  a  total  loss.  But  this  was  what  he  had  lived  for:  the  Or-  der  of  Henry  the  Lion,  the  Order  of  the  Starry  Cross,  even  the  Order  of  the  Red  Flag.  T  love  these  fake  pictures,  all  of  them.  But  my  favorite  is  that  of  my  mother's  cousin,  slim  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  in  pro-  file,  stooping  not  to  examine  her  sew-  ing  machine  but  to  enter  her  superim-  posed  Rolls.  And  standing  by  the  door  of  the  car  is  the  superimposed  chauffeur,  her  dream  of  a  lifetime  come  true. 