TAKING  PICTURES  Words  spoil  it.  They  make  it  sound  silly.  When  he  showed  me  the  ring,  I  just  laughed.  I  don't  know  what  it  is  to  be  in  love,  even  less  to  be  married.  I  thought,  What  can  I  say?  I  wanted  to  bury  his  head  in  my  coat.  I  wanted  to  wrap  my  coat  around  him  and  tuck  him  under  my  arm.  Except  that  he  is  so  big.  &quot;So  what  brought  this  on?&quot;  said  Sarah  at  worlk-the  bitch.  &quot;Just,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Just,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're  just  getting  married.&quot;  Later-drunk,  of  course-she  leans  back  in  her  chair  and  says,  &quot;So  he's  into  pain  then,  is  he?&quot;  &quot;Well,  obviously.&quot;  But  in  my  head  later,  for  days  later,  I'm  saying,  &quot;He  is  not  even  interested  in  pain,  Sarah.  He  will  not  have  it  in  the  room.&quot;  Some  nights  I  stay  at  his  place,  and  some  nights  we  stay  back  at  mine.  All  this  moving  around  makes  us  im-  patient,  with  the  multiplying  tooth-  brushes  and  a  permanent  pair  of  knick  ers,  clean  or  worn,  at  the  bottom  of  my  bag.  But  I  still  don't  know  what  it  is  to  be  in  love.  I  know  itis  different  from  being  married.  But,  just  for  now,  mar-  ried  seems  to  me  to  be  more.  And  less,  of  course.  But  mostly  more.  Sarah  at  work,  I  can't  stop  believing  in  Sarah  at  work,  just  because  I  am  getting  married,  just  because  she  is  jealous.  Here  is  a  description  of  Sarah.  She  is  a  washed  -  out  sort  of  strawberry  blonde  with  fine  bones  and  small  features.  She  is  fading  to  white.  She  is  constantly  insulted  by  men.  Back  at  his  place,  I  bite  my  fiancé  on  the  ear.  Sometimes  I  come  up  behind  him  and  chew  at  the  muscles  of  his  back.  Or  when  he  is  sitting  down  I  worry  my  teeth  inside  his  thigh,  along  the  seam  of  his  jeans.  If  I  hurt  him,  he  reads  the  paper.  If  he  laughs,  we  go  to  bed.  Or  more  often  do  not  go  to  bed  but  rumble  awhile  and  then  talk.  He  likes  to  spoon.  He  likes  to  go  to  bed  after  16  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  27,  2000  BY  ANNE  ENRIGHT  it  is  all  over.  Which  is  lovely.  Which  is  always  a  little  bit  more.  So  Sarah  at  work  hasa  personality  problem.  Which  is  to  say,  her  problem  is  that  she  does  not  like  other  people's  personalities.  My  mother  had  a  friend  who  was  al-  ways  too  much,  and  very  clever.  I  know  these  things  can  last  a  lifetime,  so  I  am  careful  of  Sarah,  and  careful  of  my  man-too  careful  to  use  his  name  with  her.  Despite  which  I  end  up  saying  it  all  the  time.  &quot;Oh,  Frank,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Frank  says  this.&quot;  &quot;Frank  doesn't  like  that.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  really?&quot;  says  Sarah.  She  is  seeing  a  guy  herself-sort  of.  He  isn't  married,  he  isn't  with  someone  else,  but  there  is  a  problem,  I  can  tell-  a  sick  mother,  maybe,  or  even  a  child.  The  only  thing  Sarah  will  say  is  &quot;The  fucker  won't  do  Saturdays.&quot;  Maybe  he's  a  bisexual.  Sarah  has  no  breasts,  truth  be  told.  And  you  can't  win  with  a  bisex-  ual,  I  say,  because  bisexuals  can't  lose.  Of  course,  I  don't  say  it  out  loud.  Sarah  is  the  witty  one.  At  the  time,  I  just  look  at  her  skinny  little  chest,  and  think.  We  are  going  over  the  wedding  list  for  the  fourteenth  time.  I  pause  over  Sarah's  name,  and  Frank  says,  &quot;Don't  invite  her  then,  if  you  don't  like  her.  Just  leave  her  out.&quot;  And  I  say,  &quot;I  can't  leave  her  out.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Because  it's  Sarah,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Because  it  just  doesn't  work  that  way.&quot;  The  wedding  is  only  four  months  away.  I  have  a  feeling  that  something  massive  is  going  to  hit  me.  I  feel  like  I  have  been  fighting  in  the  surf  all  my  life.  Now,  out  beyond  the  last,  the  big-  gest  wave,  there  is  open  sea.  I  tell  Sarah  about  the  dress  I  tried  on  over  the  weekend.  &quot;White,  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Cream,  actually.&quot;  &quot;Sounds  lovely.&quot;  &quot;Sar-ah!&quot;  I  say.  We  have  nipped  out  for  a  coffee.  Something  has  to  break.  &quot;Sarah  what?&quot;  &quot;Just  stop  it.  All  right?&quot;  And  then,  because  she  is  Sarah,  she  changes  the  subject,  makes  me  laugh  about  Gary  in  Security's  hairy  neck.  I  talk  about  my  sister's  children  while  she  sprinkles  the  table  with  sugar  and  draws  her  finger  through  it,  and  then  she  asks  about  the  dress.  Seriously  this  time.  Apparently,  I  can't  do  a  dropped  waist.  I'll  have  to  get  on  a  sun  bed  mow,  and  go  for  white.  Once  when  she  was  drunk  she  said,  &quot;You  know  your  problem?  You'll  be  all  right.  That's  your  fucking  tragedy,  you  know  that?  You'll  always  be  all  right.&quot;  But  I  don't  feel  all  right,  Sarah.  Just  because  I  don't  make  a  song  and  dance  about  it.  Doesn't  mean  I'm  always,  or  even  sometimes,  a//  right.  You  know?  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  get  married,&quot;  says  Frank.  &quot;Profiteroles,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;or  chocolate  mousse.  It's  just  a  decision.  A  stupid  decision,  that's  all.&quot;  But  there  is  an  extraordinary  thing  happening  in  bed.  As  if  he  wants  to  wreck  us  both,  sink  to  the  bottom,  while  all  the  invitations  and  profiteroles  and  satin  shoes  wash  up  on  shore.  And  because  I  am  more  miserable  about  Sarah  all  the  time,  because  I  think  she  will  spoil  everything,  like  the  bad  fairy  at  the  christening,  he  says,  &quot;Bring  her  over.  All  the  two  of  you  do  is  get  hammered  and  miserable.  I'll  cook.  Bring  her  over.&quot;  We  don't  just  get  hammered,  we  have  a  laugh.  And  we  talk,  too.  We  talk  about  lots  of  things.  But  when  I  ask  her  to  dinner  it  feels  odd.  And  some-  how,  because  I  am  getting  married,the  bisexual  boyfriend  has  to  come,  too.  Frank’s  flat  is  better  than  mine  for  these  things.  He  has  abig  living  room,  split  by  a  kitchen  counter,  and  a  table  of  a  decent  size.  I  put  candles  on  the  table  and  on  top  of  the  TV.  By  the     UNTITLED&quot;  (1998)  time  I'm  finished  cleaning,  Frank  has  all  the  vegetables  on  different  plates,  chopped  up  and  ready  to  go.  Sarah  turns  up  before  it  gets  dark.  She  moves  sort  of  sideways  and  looks  at  things  in  the  room,  picking  up  an  old  birthday  card,  a  list  of  messages,  and  then  Frank's  tax  certificate,  which  she  puts  back  down  again.  She  is  wearing  black,  and  jewelry.  I  feel  I  should  change  to  put  her  at  ease,  but  it's  too  late  now.  Frank  has  a  dish  of  olives  on  the  table,  but  she  will  not  eat  them.  Like  it's  all  a  bit  hilarious.  When  she  walked  in  the  door,  she  said  &quot;Kisses!&quot;  as  if  she  had  known  him  for  years.  But  she  still  hasn't  looked  at  him.  She  picks  at  scraps  of  paper  and  touches  things.  She  checks  herwatch.  &quot;So,  married  bliss,  Frank,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  says  Frank.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  &quot;Yeah'?&quot;  &quot;Well  it's  .  ..  I  don't  know,&quot;  says  Frank.  &quot;It's  such  a  production.&quot;  And  she  gives  me  an  arch  look  while  his  back  is  turned.  He  comes  over  to  the  table  with  the  dips  and  cut  bread.  She  looks  at  him  then.  She  gives  him  a  good  look,  and  her  eyes  falter.  He  puts  the  food  on  the  table.  &quot;Isn't  he  a  treasure?&quot;  she  says,  and  I  don't  want  Frank  to  cook  anymore.  It  makes  him  look  silly.  I  follow  him  to  the  kitchen  counter,  and  &quot;Ack  ack  ack!&quot;  he  says,  swiping  my  hand  away  from  all  the  veg-  etables,  in  their  neat  rows.  &quot;So,  honeybunch,&quot;  Isay,  &quot;when's  this  guy  of  yours  going  to  show?&quot;  At  dinner  we  talk  about  sex.  Every-  N  one  is  drunk  quite  quickly,  except  g  maybe  Frank,  who  is  worried  about  #  the  food.  But  when  it  is  all  served  up,  &amp;  he  goes,  too.  Wham.  There  are  two  red  blotches  flaring  over  his  cheeks  from  the  side  of  his  nose.  Sarah's  man  sits  all  hunched  over  and  bundled  up  ina  T-shirt  and  aknitted  thing  and  a  jacket  that  he  won't  take  off,  so  I  can't  tell  what  his  body  is  like,  but  his  hands  are  very  small  and  unpleasant.  He  reaches  onto  his  plate  and  dips  into  the  food  with  glistening  fingertips.     So,  his  name  is  Fiach.  He  works  part  time  for  his  father  and  he  takes  pho-  tographs  and  he  wants  to  get  into  ad-  vertising  but  more  like  short  films,  blah  blah,  you  know  the  type.  When  he  turns  his  head,  you  can  see  the  tail  end  of  a  tattoo  coming  out  from  under  his  hair.  But  it  seems  that  Sarah  is  mad  about  him.  She  looks  at  him  with  her  en-  tire  face,  then  she  gets  embarrassed  and  looks  down  at  her  plate.  I  won-  der  what  he  does  to  her  in  bed,  or  makes  her  do.  And  then  we  are  all  talking  at  once.  I  say  that  the  real  porn  on  the  Internet  is  the  property  pages  from  [REDACTED].  A  house  in  the  Auvergne  for  fourteen  grand,  that's  the  real  porn,  and  Sarah  is  trying  to  tell  her  hitchhiking  story  from  4974616c79,  and  Fiach  is  talking  about  the  first  porn  shop  he  went  into  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  women  in  the  magazines  were  like  housewives,  all  trussed  up  with  clothes  pegs  and  Marigold  gloves.  Amazing.  We  are  people  who  have  sex.  Frank  fills  the  glasses  and  I  see  it  all  stretch-  ing  out  aheadof  me.  Couples.  I  look  at  the  rest  of  my  life  and  despair.  Now  everyone  is  excited,  jumping  in  with  a  story,  athing,  a  tic-politicians  who  put  things  up  their  bottoms,  and  the  one  about  the  lesbian  journalists,  and  then  some  film  star  who  took  a  shit,  literally,  on  a  beauti-  ful  black  woman,  this  last  from  Sarah.  &quot;Oh,  come  on,&quot;  says  Frank.  &quot;Come  on  what?&quot;  &quot;It's  just  because  she's  black.&quot;  &quot;Well,  exactly.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  the  story  is  just  because  she's  black.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Frank,&quot;  says  Sarah.  &quot;Oh,  you  poor  boy,&quot;  and  she  squeezes  his  forearm.  Frank  gets  up  then  and  goes  to  the  counter,  and  there  is  a  pause  around  the  table.  He  swings  around  with  the  coffee  cups  and  says  to  Fiach,  &quot;I  was  looking  for  a  camera  in  the  duty-free  last  month,  but  it's  all  gizmos  and  autofocus.  Like  for  thicks.&quot;  Sarah  snorts  into  her  glass  of  wine.  Then  she  just  keeps  laughing.  Fiach  looks  at  her  and  says,  &quot;Don't  fuck-  ing  bother.  I  started  with  a  second-  hand  Olympus.  Bog  basic.  Lovely  thing.&quot;  &quot;Olympus,&quot;  says  Frank,  but  before  Fiach  can  turn  away  from  her  Sarah says &quot;Fiach  likes  taking  pictures.  Don't  you,  Fiach?&quot;  Then  it  is  her  turn  to  get  up.  She  leaves  the  room  and  the  two  boys  talk  on  about  cameras  and  she  doesn't  come  back.  I  think  she's  left  the  flat,  I  think  she's  in  the  other  room  doing  some-  thing  dreadful,  something  I  can't  even  imagine.  I  try  to  think  of  what  it  might  be,  but  whatever  comes  to  mind  isn't  re-  ally  dreadful,  after  all.  Still,  the  air  of  it  is  in  the  room,  the  feel  of  something  appalling,  until  Sarah  comes  back  with  her  hair  brushed  and  the  eyeliner  wiped  away  from  under  her  left  eye.  She  sees  us  looking,  sweeps  up  her  drink,  and  decides  to  dance.  Glass  in  one  hand,  she  waves  the  other  in  the  air.  The  skin  of  her  underarm  is  dark  and  stained,  and  not  particularly  straw-  berry  blond.  I  say,  &quot;Sarah.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  But,  as  if  she  guesses,  she  lowers  her  arm,  shimmies  over,  and  hooks  her  finger  into  the  neck  of  Fiach's  T-shirt.  She  smiles  close  into  his  face.  Then  she  gives  up  and  slumps  back  into  her  seat.  &quot;Oh,  for  fuck's  sake,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Let's  go  somewhere.  Let's  go  for  a  bop.&quot;  Which  is  when  Frank  brings  out  the  brandy,  still  talking  to  Fiachabout  lenses,  and  I  ask  Sarah  about  her  mother.  Sarah  hates  her  mother,  though  it  is  her  father  who  is  the  manic-depressive,  probably.  But  itis  the  father  she  loves  and  the  mother  she  despises,  so  we  talk  about  this  for  a  while.  Then  I  tell  her  about  Mammy  taking  the  bottle  out  of  the  wardrobe  and  saying  &quot;Well,  at  least  I'mnot  drinking  anymore&quot;  as  she  pours  her-  self  another  vodka.  But  it  is  an  old  conversation.  It  doesn't  work  any-  more.  It  is  time  to  go-or  would  be  if  Sarah  weren'tso  drunk.  She  leans  back  and  looks  at  the  boys  and  tests  the  edgeof  her  front  teeth  with  her  tongue.  &quot;Fiach,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What?&quot;  On  the  other  side  of  the  table,  Fiach  is  talking  about  some  kind  of  goose.  He  says  he  goes  to  Bull  Island  every  Saturday  to  take  pictures  of  this  goose.  He  is  throwing  it  out  like  it's  a  sort  of  trendy  thing  todo,  but  he's  also  actually  started  listing  the  names  of  gulls  and  terns,  and  Frank  is  looking  at  him  with  a  face  like  setting  con-  crete.  I  think  he's  too  astonished  or  too  bored  to  speak,  but  then  I  see  that  he  is  completely  interested,  that  he  is  nine  years  old.  &quot;Maybe  Fiach  could  do  the  wedding  pictures,&quot;  I  say,  but  no  one  is  listening.  Fiach  is  on  to  curlews  now.  He  seems  to  be  talking  about  their  feet.  &quot;I  said,  maybe  Fiach  can  do  the  wedding,  Frank.&quot;  Beside  me,  Sarah  is  trying  to  set  her  drink  on  fire.  She  has  the  lighter  pushed  down  into  the  glass  and  she's  flicking  the  wheel.  When  the  spark  catches,  she  pulls  back  in  fright  and  the  glass  falls  over.  The  flaming  brandy  licks  out  across  the  table.  For  a  moment,  all  four  of  us  watch  the  flames  spill  across  the  wood.Frank  lifts  his  napkin  but  does  not  bring  it  down.  The  fire  is  such  a  beautiful  blue.  It  gathers  the  air  and  loses  it,  drinking  it,  slurping  it  up.  Fiach  pulls  his  chair  back  as  a  rivulet  of  flame  drips  overthe  edge  of  the  table  and  lands  on  the  floor.  Then  I  pick  up  a  bottle  of  water  and  put  it  all  out.  Sarah  is  silent  in  the  bedroom,  put-  ting  on  her  coat.  Then  she  turns  to  say  that  she  is  delighted.  Of  course,  she  said  it  when  Ifirst  showed  her  the  ring-with  a  big  fake  scream  like  the  rest  of  them-but  now  she  says  it  properly,  she  takes  both  my  arms  and  says  she  is  just  delighted,  just  so  pleased.  She  says  that  Frank  is  just  so  brilliant.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Oh,  Jesus,  Sarah,  I'm  scared.&quot;  We  hug  then,  and  I  show  her  back  into  the  big  room.  After  they  are  gone,  I  go  over  to  the  stereo,  turn  it  up,  and  start  to  dance.  I  swing  my  backside.  I  sit  down  on  the  air  and  then  push  up  into  it.  I  say,  &quot;Fuck  you,  Sarah.  Hey,  fuck  you,&quot;  pushing  up  with  my  joke  penis  made  of  air.  Frank  sits  on  the  sofa  and  looks  at  me.  Then  he  closes  his  eyes  and  seems  to  sleep. 