 BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS  AROUND  THE  WORLD  I  TOOK  them  around  the  point  I  toward  Dzamandzar,&quot;  Michel  tells  me.  &quot;'Those  two  little  whores.  Just  ten  minutes.  They  asked  me  for  a  ride  when  I  was  down  on  the  beach  bailing  out  the  Zodiac.  It  was  rough  and  I  went  too  fast  on  purpose.  You  should  have  seen  their  titties  bounce!&quot;  He  tells  me  this  in  French,  but  with  a  carefree  lewdness  that  could  be  Ro-  man.  He  is,  in  fact,  half  Italian,  prod-  uct  of  the  officially  French  no  man's  land  where  the  Ligurian  Alps  touch  the  Massif  Central.  In  love,  like  so  many  of  his  Mediterranean  compatri-  ots,  with  boats,  with  hot  blue  seas,  with  dusky  women,  with  the  steamy  k\\\\\\'\     BY  ANDREA  LEE  ¥}  xa'?  uk  J  r  Shit  \\\  ’  &amp;  \\l\  ﬂu  3     belt  of  tropics  that  girdles  the  earth.  We  live  above  Cannes,  in  Mougins,  where  itis  always  sunny,  but  on  va-  cation  we  travel  the  world  to  get  hot-  ter  and  wilder.  [REDACTED]  are  what  Mi-  chel  prefers:  in  Asia,  Oceania,  Africa,  the  Caribbean,  it  doesn't  matter.  Any  place  where  the  people  are  the  color  of  different  grades  of  coffee,  and  mangoes  plop  in  mushy  heaps  on  the  ground,  and  the  reef  fish  are  bril-  lant  as  a  box  of  new  crayons.  On  va-  cation  Michel  sheds  his  manicured  ad-man  imageand  with  innocent  glee  sets  about  turning  himself  into  a  Eu-  rotrash  version  ofTarzan.  Bronzed  muscles  well  in  evidence,  shark's  tooth  on  a  leather  thong,  fishing  knife  stuck  into  the  waist  of  a  threadbare  pareu,  and  a  wispy  sun-streaked  ponytail  that  he  tends  painstakingly  along  with  a  chin  crop  of  [REDACTED]  stubble.  He  loves  me  for  a  number  of  wrong  reasons  connected  with  his  dreams  of  hot  islands.  It  makes  no  difference  to  him  that  I  grewup  in  [REDACTED],  wearing  L.L.  Bean  boots  more  often  Z  than  sandals;  after  eight  years  of  mar-  riage,  he  docsnt  seem  to  see  that  9  what  gives  strength  to  the  spine  ofo  an  American  black  woman,  however  2  5  exotic  she  appears,  is  a  steely  Prot-  estant  core.  A  core  that  in  its  abso-  lutism  is  curiously  cold  and  Nordic.  S/MA  MAIT  &lt;  9  bs  &amp;     The  fact  is  that  I'mnot  crazy  about  the  tropics,  but  Michel  doesn't  want  to  acknowledge  that.  Mysteriously,  we  continue  to  get  along.  In  fact,  our  mar-  riage  is  surprisingly  robust,  though  at  the  time  of  our  wedding,  my  mother,  my  sister,  and  my  girlfriends  all  gave  it  a  year.  I  sometimes  think  the  secret  is  that  we  don't  know  each  other  and  never  will.  Both  of  us  are  lazy  by  na-  ture,  and  that  makes  it  convenient  to  hang  on  to  the  fantasies  we  conjured  up  back  when  we  met  in  Milan:  mine  of  the  French  gentleman-adventurer,  and  his  of  a  pliant  black  goddess  whose  feelings  accord  with  his.  It's  no  surprise  to  me  when  Michel  tries  to  share  the  ribald  thoughts  that  run  through  the  labyrinth  of  his  Roman  Catholic  mind.  He  doubtless  thought  that  I  would  get  a  kick  out  of  hearing  about  his  boat  ride  with  a  pair  of  Af-  rican  sluts.  Those  girls  have  been  sitting  around  watching  us  from  under  the  mango  tree  since  the  day  we  rolled  up  from  the  airport  to  spend  August  in  the  house  we  borrowedfrom  our  friend  Jean-Claude.  Michel  was  driving  Jean-Claude's  car,  a  Citroén  so  rump-  sprung  from  the  unpaved  roads  that  it  moves  like  a  tractor.  Our  four-  year-old  son,  Lele,  can  drag  his  sneak-  ers  in  red  dust  through  the  holes  in  the  floor.  The  car  smells  of  failure,  like  the  house,  which  is  built  on  an  island  off  the  northern  coast  of  Mad-  agascar,  on  a  beach  where  a  wide  scalloped  bay  spreads  like  two  blue  wings,  melting  into  the  sky  and  the  wild  archipelago  of  lemur  islands  be-  yond.  Behind  the  garden  stretch  fields  of  sugar  cane  and  groves  of  silvery,  arthritic-looking  ylang-ylang  trees,  whose  flowers  lend  a  tang  of  Africa  to  French  perfume.  The  house  is  low  and  long  around  a  grandiose  veranda,  and  was  once  whitewashed  into  an  emblem  of  colo-  nial  vainglory;  now  the  walls  are  the  indeterminate  color  of  damp,  and  the  thinning  palm  thatch  on  the  roof  swarms  with  mice  and  geckos.  It  has  a  queenly  housekeeper  named  Hadijah,  whose  perfect  porwmes  frites  and  plates  of  crudités,  like  the  dead  bidet  and  dried-up  tubes  of  Bain  de  Soleil  in  ._  the  bathroom,  are  monuments  to  Jean-  Claude's  ex-wife,  who  went  back  to  Toulon  after  seeing  a  series  of  projects  a  frozen-fish  plant,  a  perfume  com-  pany,  a  small  luxury  hotel-swallowed  up  in  the  calm  fireworks  of  the  sun-  sets.  Madagascar  is  the  perfect  place  fora  white  fool  tolose  his  money,  Michel  says.  He  and  I  enjoy  the  scent  of  dissolution  in  our  borrowed  house,  fuck  inventively  in  the  big  mildewed  ironwood  bed,  sit  in  happiness  in  the  sad,  bottomed-out  canvas  chairs  on  the  veranda  after  a  day  of  spear-fishing,  watching  our  son  race  in  and  out  of  herds  of  humpbacked  zebu  cattle  on  the  beach.  The  only  problem  for  me  has  been  those  girls.  They're  not  really  whores,  just  local  girls  who  dance  at  Bar  Kari-  boo  on  Thursday  nights  and  hang  around  the  few  French  and  Italian  tourists,  hoping  to  trade  sex  for  a  T-shirt,  a  hair  clip.  They  don't  know  to  want  Ray-Bans  yet;  this  is  not  the  Caribbean.  I'm  used  to  the  women  from  the  Comoros  [REDACTED]  who  crowd  onto  the  beach  near  the  house,  dressed  up  in  gold  bangles  and  earrings  and  their  best  lace-trimmed  blouses.  They  clap  and  sing  in  circles  for  hours,  jump-  ing  up  to  dance  in  pairs,  wagging  their  backsides  in  tiny  precise  jerks,  laughing  and  flashing  gold  teeth.  They  wrap  themselves  up  in  their  good  time  ina  way  that  intimidates  me.  And  I've  come  to  an  understanding  with  the  older  women  of  the  village,  who  come  by  to  bring  us  our  morning  ration  of  zebu  milk  (we  drink  it  boiled  in  coffee)  or  to  barter  with  rideaux  Richelieu,  the  beautiful  muslin  cut-  work  curtains  that  they  embroider.  They  are  intensely  curious  about  me,  who  looks  not  unlike  one  of  them,  but  who  dresses  and  speaks  and  acts  like  a  foreign  madame,  and  is  clearly  married  to  the  white  man,  not  just  a  casual  concubine.  They  ask  me  for  medicine,  and  if  I  weren't  care-  ful  they  would  clean  out  my  supply  of  Advil  and  Bimaxin.  They  go  crazy  over  Lele,  whom  they  call  &quot;bebe  méetis&quot;  -the  mixed  baby.  I  want  to  know  all  about  them,  their  still  eyes,  their  faces  of  varying  colors  that  show  both  African  and  496e646f6e65736961n  blood,  as  I  want  to  know  everything  about  this  primeval  chunk  of  Africa  float-  ing  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  with  its  bottle-shaped  baobabs  and  strange  tinkling  music,  the  sege,  which  is  T5  said  to  carry  traces  of  tunes  from  Irish  sailors.  But  the  girls  squatting  under  the  mango  tree  stare  hard  at  me  whenever  I  sit  out  on  the  beach  or  walk  down  to  the  water  to  swim.  Then  they  make  loud  comments  in  Malagasy,  and  burst  out  laughing.  It's  juvenile  behavior,  and  I  can't  help  sinking  right  down  to  their  level  and  getting  provoked.  They're  probably  about  eighteen  years  old,  both  good-looking;  one  with  a  flat  brown  face  and  the  long  straight  shin-  ing  hairthat  makes  some  Madagas-  car  women  resemble  Polynesians;  the  other  darker,  with  the  tiny  features  that  belong  to  the  coastal  people  called  Merina,  and  a  pile  of  kinky  hair  tinted  reddish.  Both  are  big-titted,  as  Michel  pointed  out,  the  merchandise  spilling  out  of  a  pair  of  Nouvelles  Frontiéres  T-shirts  that  they  must  have  got  from  a  tour-group  leader.  Some  days  they  have  designs  painted  on  theirfaces  in  yellow  sulfur  clay.  They  stare  at  me,  and  guffaw  and  stretch  and  give  their  breasts  a  competitive  shake.  Some-  times  they  hoot  softly  or  whistle  when  I  appear.  My  policy  has  been  to  ignore  them,  but  today  they've  taken  a  step  ahead,  got  a  rise,  however  ironic,  out  of  my  man.  It's  a  little  triumph.  I  didn't  see  the  Zodiac  ride,  but  through  the  bath-  room  window  I  saw  them  come  back.  I  was  shaving  my  legs-waxing  never  lasts  long  enough  in  the  tropics.  Squeal-  ing  and  laughing,  they  floundered  out  of  the  rubber  dinghy,  patting  their  hair,  settling  their  T-shirts,  retying  the  cloth  around  their  waists.  One  of  them  -  blew  her  nose  through  her  fingers  into  the  shallow  water.  The  other  said  something  to  Michel,  and  he  laughed  and  patted  her  on  the  backside.  Then,  arrogantly  as  two  Cleopatras,  they  strode  across  the  hot  sand  and  took  up  their  crouch  under  the  mango  tree.  A  pair  of  brown  netsuke.  Waiting  for  my  move.  So,  finally,  I  act.  Michel  comes  sauntering  inside  to  tell  me,and  after  he  tells  me  I  make  a  scene.  He's  com-  pletely  taken  aback;  he's  gotten  spoiled  since  we've  been  married,  used  to  my  American  cool,  which  can  seem  even  cooler  than  French  nonchalance.  He  thought  I  was  going  to  react  the  way  I  used  to  when  I  was  still  modelling  and  he  used  to  flirt  with  some  of the  girls  I  was  working  with,  some  of  the  bimbos  who  weren't  serious  about  their  careers.  That  is,  that  I  was  going  to  chuckle,  display  complic-  ity,  even  excitement.  Instead  I  yell,  say  he's  damaged  my  prestige  among  the  locals,  say  that  things  are  dif-  ferent  here.  The  words  seem  to  be  flowing  up  into  my  mouth  from  the  ground  beneath  my  feet.  He's  so  surprised  that  he  just  stands  there  with  his  blue  eyes  roundand  his  mouth  a  small  &quot;o&quot;  in  the  midst  of  that  IndianaJones  stubble.  Then  I  hitch  up  my  Soleiado  bikini,  and  march  outside  to  the  mango  tree.  &quot;Wa-Fen!&quot;  I  hiss  to  Red  Hair,  who  seems  to  be  top  girl  of  the  duo.  &quot;Go  away!  Ne  parle  plus  avec  mon  homme!&quot;  The  two  of  them  scramble  to  their  feet,  but  they  don't  seem  to  be  going  anywhere,  so  I  slap  the  one  with  the  straight  hair.  Except  for  once,  when  I  was  about  ten,  in  a  fight  with  my  cousin  Brenda,  I  don't  believe  've  ever  seriously  slappedanyone.  This,  on  the  scale  of  slaps,  is  half-  assed,  not  hard.  In  that  second  of  con-  tact  I  feel  the  strange  smoothnessof  her  cheek  and  an  instantaneous  aware-  ness  that  my  hand  is  just  as  smooth.  An  electric  current  seems  to  connect  them.  A  red  light  flickers  in  the  depths  of  the  girl's  dark  eyes,  like  a  computer  blinking  on,  and  then,  without  saying  anything  to  me,  both  girls  scuttle  off  down  the  beach,  talking  loudly  to  each  other,  and  occasionally  looking  back  at  me.  I  make  motions  as  if  I'm  shooing  chickens.  I  screech.  Far  off  down  thebeach,  they  disappear  into  the  palms.  Then  I  go  and  stretch  out  in  the  water,  which  is  like  stretching  out  in  blue  air.  I  take  off  my  bikini  top  and  let  the  equatorial  sun  print  my  shadow  on  the  white  sand  below,  where  small  white  fish  graze.  I  feel  suddenly  calm,  but  at  the  same  time  my  mind  is  work-  ing  very  fast.  &quot;My  dear,  who  invited  you  to  come  halfway  across  the  world  and  slap  somebody?&quot;  I  ask  myself  in  the  ultra-reasonable  tones  of  my  mother,  the  school  guidance  coun-  sellor.  Suddenly  I  remember  another  summer  on  yet  another  island.  This  was  in  [REDACTED],  a  few  years  ago,  when  we  were  exploring  the  back  roads  of  one  of  the  Moluccas.  The     THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  7,  2000  driver  was  a  local  kid  who  didn't  speak  any  language  we  spoke,  and  was  clearly  gay.  A  great-looking  kid  with  light-brown  skin  pitted  with  a  few  acne  scars,  and  neat  dreadlocks  that  would  have  looked  stylish  in  Man-  hattan.  A  Princess  Di  T-shirt,  and  peeling  red  nail  polish.  When  we  stopped  at  a  waterfall,  and  Michel  the  Adventurer  went  off  to  climb  the  lava  cliffs,  I  sat  down  on  a  flat  rock  with  the  driver,  whipped  out  my  beauty  case,  and  painted  his  nails  Shocking  pink.  He  jumped  when  I  first  grabbed  his  hand,  but  when  he  saw  what  I  was  up  to  he  gave  me  a  huge  ec-  static  grin,  and  then  closed  his  eyes.  And  there  it  was:  para-  dise.  The  waterfall,  the  jungle,  and  that  beautiful  kid  with  his  long  fingers  lying  in  my  hand.  It  was  Michel  who  made  a  fuss  that  time,  jealous  of  something  he  couldn't  even  define.  But  I  had  the  same  feel-  ing  I  do  now,of  acting  on  instinct  and  on  target.  The  right  act.  At  the  right  moment.  &quot;Mama,  what  did  you  do?&quot;  Lele  comes  running  up  to  me  from  where  he  has  been  squatting  naked  on  the  beach,  playing  with  two  small  boys  from  the  village.  His  legs  and  backside  and  little  penis  are  covered  with  sand.  I  see  the  boys  staring  after  him,  one  holding  a  toy  they've  been  squabbling  over:  a  rough  wooden  model  of  a  truck,  without  wheels,  tied  with  a  piece  of  string  to  a  stick.  &quot;Ismail  says  you  hit  a  lady.&quot;  Word  has  already  spread  along  thebeach,  which  is  like  a  stage  where  a  different  variety  show  goes  on  ev-  ery  hour  of  the  day.  The  set  acts  are  the  tides,  which  determine  the  movements  of  fishing  boats,  pirogues,  Zodiacs,  and  sailboats.  There  is  always  action  on  the  sand:  women  walk  up  and  down  with  bundles  on  their  heads;  bands  ofragged  children  dig  clams  at  low  tide,  or  launch  themselves  into  the  waves  at  high  tideto  surf  with  a  piece  of  old  timber;  yellow  dogs  chase  chickens  and  fight  over  shrimp  shells;  palm  branches  crash  down  on  corrugated-iron  roofs;  girls  with  lacy  dresses  and  bare  sandy  shanks  parade  to  Mass;  the  little  mosque  opens  and  _  shuts  its  creaky  doors;  boys  play  soccer,  kicking  a  plastic  water  bottle;  babies     BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS  AROUND  THE  WORLD  howl;  sunburnt  tourist  couples  argue  and  reconcile.  Gossip  flashes  up  and  down  with  electronic  swiftness.  I  sit  up  in  the  water  and  grab  Lele,  and  kiss  him  all  over  while  he  splashes  and  struggles  to  get  away.  &quot;Yes,  that's  right,&quot;  I  tell  him.  It's  the  firm,  didactic  voice  I  use  when  we've  turned  off  the  Teletubbiesvideos  and  I  am  playing  the  ideal  parent.  &quot;I  did  hit  a  lady,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Sheneeded  hitting.&quot;  I,  the  mother  who  instructs  her  cross-cultural  child  in  tolerance  and  nonviolence.  Lele  has  a  picture  book  called  &quot;Brothers  and  Sisters  Around  the  World,&quot;  full  of  illustrations  of  cookie-cutter  figures  of  various  colors,  holding  hands  across  continents.  All  people  belong  to  one  family,  it  teaches.  All  oceans  are  the  same  ocean.  Michel,  who  has  watched  the  whole  scene,  comes  and  tells  me  that  in  all  his  past  visits  to  the  island  he's  never  seen  anything  like  it.  He's  worried.  The  women  fight  among  themselves,  or  they  fight  with  their  men  for  sleep-  ing  with  the  tourists,  he  says.  But  no  foreign  woman  has  ever  got  mixed  up  with  them.  He  talks  like  an  anthro-  pologist  about  loss  of  face  and  ven-  detta.  &quot;We  might  get  run  out  of  here,&quot;  he  says  nervously.  I  tell  him  to  relax,  thatabsolutely  nothing  will  happen.  Where  do  I  get  this  knowledge?  It  has  sifted  into  me  from  the  water,  the  air.  So,  as  we  planned,  we  go  off  spear-fishing  over  by  Nosy  Komba,  where  the  coral  grows  in  big  pastel  poufs  like  furniture  in  a  [REDACTED]  bedroom  of  the  fifties.  We  find  a  den  of  rock  lobster  and  shoot  two,  and  take  them  back  to  Jean-Claude's  house  for  Hadijah  to  cook.  Waiting  for  the  lobster,  we  eat  about  fifty  small  oysters  the  size  of  mussels  and  shine  flashlights  over  the  beach  in  front  of  the  veranda,  which  is  crawling  with  crabs.  Inside,  Lele  is  snoring  adenoidally  under  a  mosquito  net.  The  black  sky  above  is  alive  with  falling  stars.  Michel  keeps  looking  at  me  and  shaking  his  head.  Hadijah  comes  outbearing  the  lob-  ster  magnificently  broiled  with  va-  nilla  sauce.  To  say  she  has  presence  is  an  understatement.  She  got  married  when  she  was  thirteen,  and  is  now,  after  eight  children,  an  important  per-  sonage,  the  matriarch  of  avast  and  prosperous  island  clan.  She  and  I  have     got  along  fine  ever  since  she  realized  that  I  wasn't  going  to  horn  in  on  her  despotic  rule  over  Jean-Claude's  house,  or  say  anything  about  the  percent-  age  she  skims  off  the  marketing  money.  She  has  a  closely  braided  head  and  is  as  short  and  solid  as  a  boulder-on  the  spectrum  of  Madagascar  skin  colors  well  toward  the  darkest.  This  even-  ing  she  is  showing  off  her  wealth  by  wearing  over  her  pareu  a  venerable  Guns  n'  Roses  T-shirt.  She  puts  down  the  lobster,  sets  her  hands  on  her  hips,  and  looks  at  me,  and  my  heart  sud-  denly  skips  a  beat.  Hers,  I  realize,  is  the  only  opinion  I  care  about.  &quot;Oh,  Madame,&quot;  she  says,  flashing  me  a  wide  smile  and  shaking  her  finger  indul-  gently,  as  if  I'm  a  child  who  has  been  up  to  mischief.  I  begin  breathing  again.  &quot;Oh,  Madame!&quot;  &quot;Madame  has  a  quick  temper,&quot;  Mi-  chel  says  in  a  placating  voice,  and  Hadijah  throws  her  headback  and  laughs  till  the  Guns  n'  Roses  logo  shimmies.  &quot;She  is  right!&quot;  she  exclaims.  &quot;Ma-  dame  a  raison!  She's  a  good  wife!&quot;  Next  morning  ourneighbor  Pier-  Luigi  pulls  up  to  the  house  in  his  dust-  covered  Renault  pickup.  PierLuigi  is  Italian,  and  back  in  4974616c79  has  a  title  and  a  castle.  Here  he  lives  in  a  bamboo  hut  when  he  is  not  away  leading  a  shark-hunting  safari  to  one  of  the  wild  islands  a  day's  sail  to  the  north.  He  is  the  real  version  of  what  Michel  pre-  tends  to  be:  a  walking,  talking  charac-  ter  from  a  boys'  adventure  tale,  with  a  corrugated  scar  low  down  on  one  side  where  a  hammerhead  once  snatched  a  mouthful.  The  islanders  respect  him,  and  bring  their  children  to  him  for  a  worm  cure  he's  devised  from  crushed  papaya  seeds.  He  can  bargain  down  the  tough  Indian  merchants  in  the  market,  and  he  sleeps  with  pretty  tourists  and  island  girls  impartially.  Nobody  knows  how  many  kids  he  has  fathered  on  the  island.  &quot;I  hear  your  wife  is  mixing  in  local  politics,&quot;  he  calls  from  the  truck  to  Michel,  while  looking  me  over  with  those  shameless  eyes  that  have  got  so  many  women  in  trouble.  PierLuigi  is  sixty  years  old  and  has  streaks  ofwhite  in  his  hair,  but  he  is  still  six  feet  four  and  the  best-looking  man  I  have  ever  seen  in  my  life.  &quot;Brava,&quot;  he  says  to  me.  &quot;Good  for  you,  my  dear.  The  local  young  ladies  very  often  need  things  put  in  perspective,  but  very  few  of  our  lovely  visitors  know  how  to  do  it  on  their  own  terms.&quot;  After  he  drives  off,  Michel  looks  at  me  with  new  respect.  &quot;I  can't  say  you     BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS  AROUND  THE  WORLD  T9  don't  have  guts,&quot;  he  says  later.  Then,  &quot;You  reallygnuust  be  in  {}{ova  with  me.&quot;  Wh  at  to  rea  d  N  the  afternoon  after  our  siesta,  when  I  emerge  onto  the  veranda  from  Jean-Claude's  shuttered  bedroom,  massaging  Phyto  Plage  into  my  hair,  smelling  on  my  skin  the  pleasant  odor  of  sex,  I  see-as  I  somehow  expected-  that  the  two  girls  are  back  under  the  mango  tree.  I  walk  out  onto  the  burn-  ing  sand,  squinting  against  the  glare  that  makes  every  distant  object  a  flat  black  silhouette,  and  approach  them  for  the  second  time.  I  don't  think  that  we're  in  for  another  round,  yet  I  feel  my  knees  take  on  a  wary  pugilistic  springiness.  But  as  I  get  close,  the  straight-haired  girl  says,  &quot;Bonjour,  Madame.&quot;  The  formal  greeting  conveys  an  odd  intimacy.  It  is  clear  that  we  are  breath-  ing  the  same  air,  now,  that  we  have  taken  each  other's  measure.  Both  girls  look  straight  at  me,  no  longer  bridling.  All  three  of  us  know  perfectly  well  that  the  man-my  European  husband-  was  just  an  excuse,  a  playing  field  for  our  curiosity.  The  curiosity  of  sisters  separated  before  birth  and  flung  by  the  caprice  of  history  half  a  world  away  from  each  other.  Now  in  this  trouble-  some  way  our  connection  has  been  es-  tablished,  and  between  my  guilt  and  my  dawning  affection  I  suspect  that  I'll  never  get  rid  of  these  two.  Already  in  my  mind  is  forming  an  exasperating  vision  of  the  gifts  I  know  I'll  have  to  give  them:  lace  underpants;  Tampax;  music  cassettes;  body  lotion-all  of  them  extracted  from  me  with  the  ten-  der  ruthlessness  of  family  members  The  Music  Lesson  anywhere.  And  then  what?  What,  after  &quot;  |  g  all  these  years,  will  there  be  tosay?  §  b  Well,  the  first  thing  to  do  is  answer.  &quot;Bonjour,  Mesdemoiselles,&quot;  I  reply,  in  my  politest  voice.  And  because  I  can't  think  of  any-  thing  else,  I  smile  and  nod  at  them  and  P  &quot;A  novelso  much  more  than  just  clever  and  '  sharp  that  it  might  be  said  to  be  wise....  Cusk  has  heart  and  depth  in  abundance,  and  Saving  Agnes  showcases  both.&quot;  -Abby  Frucht,  Village  Voice  Literary  Supplement  Winner  of  the  Whitbread  First  Novel  Award  &quot;Boasts  pitch-perfect  tonal  control  and  humor....[A]  sophisticated  confection.&quot;  _  -The  43616e616461York  Times  Book  Review  43616e616461York  Times  Notable  Book  of  the  Year  tos  when  your  doo  wit  it..  A  vooderfl  boot  a  x  wor  &quot;Throughout  Weber's  tricky,  tension-filled  plot,  double-crosses,  murder,  and  art  forgeries  dramatize  the  deeper  themes  of  love,  refuge,  and  loss.&quot;  -Entertainment  Weekly  43616e616461York  Times  Notable  Book  of  the  Year  Publishers  Weekly  Best  Book  of  the  Year  &quot;Mr.  Chabon  writes  with  enormous  fluency  in  these  pages,  captivating  the  JM  walk  into  the  water,  which  as  always  in  the  tropics  is  as  warm  as  blood.  The  whole  time  I  swim,  the  girls  are  silent,  and  they  don't  take  their  eyes  off  me.  