 ATTENTION  GENIUSES:  CASH  ONLY  BY  WOODY  ALLEN  Jogging  along  Fifth  [REDACTED]  last  sum-  mer  as  part  of  a  fitness  program  de-  signed  to  reduce  my  life  expectancy  to  that  of  a  nineteenth-century  coal  miner,  I  paused  at  the  outdoor  café  of  the  Stan-  hope  Hotel  to  renovate  my  flagging  res-  piratory  system  with  a  chilled  Screw-  driver.  Orange  juice  being  well  up  on  my  prescribed  regimen,  I  quaffed  sev-  eral  rounds  and  upon  rising  managed  to  execute  a  series  of  corybantic  figures,  not  unlike  the  infant  Bambi  taking  his  first  steps.  Recalling  dimly  through  a  cortex  richly  marinated  by  the  Smirnoff  people  that  I  had  committed  to  picking  up  a  ra-  tion  of  goat-cheese  buttons  and  some  [REDACTED]  rusk  en  route  home,  I  stumbled  numbly  into  the  Metropolitan  Mu-  seum,  mistaking  it  for  Zabar's.  As  I  lurched  down  the  halls,  my  head  spin-  ning  like  a  zoetrope,  I  gradually  regained  sufficient  lucidity  to  realize  that  I  was  bearing  witness  to  an  exhibition,  &quot;Cé-  zanne  to  van  Gogh:  The  Collection  of  Doctor  Gachet.&quot;  Gachet,  I  garnered  from  the  wall  spiel,  was  a  physician  who  treated  the  likes  of  Pissarro  and  van  Gogh  when  these  lads  were  under  the  weather  after  ingesting  an  unripe  frog's  leg  or  belting  back  too  much  absinthe.  As  yet  unrec-  ognized  and  unable  to  pay  a  sou,  they  offered  to  balance  Gachet's  books  with  an  oil  or  pastel  in  exchange  for  a  house  call  or  a  dose  of  mercury.  Gachet's  will-  ingness  to  accept  proved  clairvoyant,  and  as  I  luxuriated  in  the  agglomeration  of  Renoirs  and  Cézannes,  presumably  direct  from  the  walls  of  his  waiting  room,  I  couldn't  help  imagining  myself  in  a  similar  situation.  Dec.  1st:  Quelle  good  fortune!  That  I,  Dr.  Skeezix  Feebleman,  have  received  a  referral  today  from  none  other  than  Noah  Untermensch,  a  genius  among  psychoanalysts  who  specializes  in  the  problems  of  the  creative  mind.  Unter-  mensch  has  amassed  a  prestigious  show-  business  clientele  rivalled  only  by  the  &quot;Available  List&quot;  at  the  William  Morris  Agency.  &quot;This  kid  Pepkin's  a  songwriter,&quot;  Dr.  Untermensch  told  me  over  the  phone  as  he  greased  the  skids  for  a  meeting  with  the  prospective  patient.  &quot;He's  Jerry  Kern  or  Cole  Porter,  but  modern-day.  Prob-  lem  is  the  kid's  awash  in  debilitating  guilt.  My  best  guess?  It's  a  mother  thing.  Candle  his  sconce  for  a  while  and  sluice  off  some  angst.  You  won't  be  sorry,  I  see  Tonys,  Oscars,  Grammys,  maybe  even  a  Medal  of  Freedom.&quot;  I  asked  Untermensch  why  he  wasn't  going  to  treat  Pepkin  himself.  &quot;Plate's  full,&quot;  he  snapped,  &quot;and  all  analytic  emer-  gencies.  Actress  whose  co-op  won't  let  dogs  in,  TV  weatherman  into  paddling,  plus  a  producer  who  can't  get  a  call  back  from  Mike  Eisner.  Him  I  placed  on  sui-  cide  watch.  Anyway,  do  your  best  and  no  need  to  keep  me  informed  about  your  progress.  You  get  final  cut.  Ha,  ha.&quot;  Dec.  3rd:  Met  Murray  Pepkin  today  and  there's  no  question  about  it,  the  man  has  artist  written  all  over  him.  Bushy-haired  and  with  eyes  like  hypno-  disks,  he  is  the  rarefied  man  obsessed  with  his  work  yet  lumbered  on  all  sides  by  the  pygmy  demands  of  food,  rent,  and  two  alimonies.  As  a  songwriter,  Pepkin  appears  to  be  a  visionary  who  chooses  to  hone  his  lyrics  in  a  spare  room  in  Queens  above  Fleisher  Broth-  ers  Quality  Embalming,  where  he  some-  times  serves  as  a  makeup  consultant.  I  asked  him  why  he  believes  he  needs  analysis,  and  he  confessed  that,  while  the  reality  is  that  each  note  and  syllable  he  pens  vibrates  with  genuine  great-  ness,  he  feels  he's  too  self-critical.  He  recognizes  his  relentless  self-destructive  choices  in  women  and  was  recently  married  to  an  actress  in  a  relationship  based  not  so  much  on  traditional  West-  ern  ethics  as  on  Hammurabi's  Code.  Shortly  after,  he  discovered  her  in  bed  with  their  nutritionist.  They  quarrelled,  and  she  struck  Pepkin  in  the  head  with  his  rhyming  dictionary,  causing  him  to  forget  the  bridge  to  &quot;Dry  Bones.&quot;  When  I  brought  up  my  fee,  Pepkin  allowed  sheepishly  that  at  the  moment  he  is  a  bit  strapped,  having  squandered  the  last  of  his  savings  on  a  duck  press.  He  wondered  if  we  might  not  arrange  some  form  of  installment  plan.  When  I  explained  that  financial  obligation  was  crucial  to  the  treatment  itself,  he  came  up  with  the  idea  that  he  might  pay  me  off  in  songs,  pointing  out  how  remuner-  ative  it  would  have  been  over  the  years  if  I  alone  held  the  copyright  to  &quot;Begin  the  Beguine&quot;  or  &quot;Send  In  the  Clowns.&quot;  Not  only  would  the  royalties  from  his  sheet    music  in  time  swell  my  personal  coffers  but  I  would  be  lauded  the  world  over  as  having  nurtured  a  fledgling  tunesmith  equal  to  Gershwin,  the  Beatles,  or  Mar-  vin  Hamlisch.  Having  always  prided  myself  on  a  keen  eye  for  budding  talent,  and  recalling  how  amply  rewarded  some  I  old  French  homeopath  named  Cachet  or  Kashay  had  been  writing  prescrip-  tions  for  van  Gogh  in  exchange  for  an  occasional  still-life  to  cover  the  cost  of  his  tongue  depressors,  I  warmed  to  Pep-  in's  offer.  I  also  reviewed  my  own  fi-  nancial  obligations,  which  have  puffed  recently  like  a  hammered  thumb.  There  was  the  apartment  on  Park  [REDACTED],  the  beach  house  in  Quogue,  the  two  Ferra-  ris,  and  Foxy  Breitbart,  an  expensive  lit-  tle  habit  I  picked  up  one  night  trolling  the  singles  bars,  whose  skin  tones  in  a  thong  put  a  smile  on  my  face  that  could  only  be  chipped  off  with  a  chisel.  Add  to  this  a  too  heavy  position  in  Lebanese  guavas  and  my  cash  flow  seemed  a  shade  coagulated.  And  yet  a  voice  somewhere  within  asserted  that  a  flyer  with  this  tightly  wound  mainspring  sprawled  be-  fore  me  not  only  might  prove  an  annu-  ity  but,  should  [REDACTED]  one  day  make  his  life  story,  the  role  of  Skeezix  Feebleman  could  just  cop  Best  Support-  ing  Actor.  May  2nd:  It  has  been  six  months  today  that  I  have  been  treating  Murray  Pepkin,  and  though  my  faith  in  his  ge-  nius  abides  undiminished,  I  must  say  I  did  not  realize  the  amount  of  work  in-  volved.  Last  week  he  rang  me  at  3  [REDACTED]  to  tell  me  a  long  dream  in  which  Rod-  gers  and  Hart  appeared  at  his  window  as  parrots  and  Simonized  his  car.  Some  days  later  he  paged  me  at  the  opera  and  threatened  to  take  his  life  if  I  did  not  immediately  drive  to  meet  him  at  Um-  berto's  Clam  House  and  hear  his  idea  for  a  musical  based  on  the  Dewey  de-  cimal  system.  I  put  up  with  it  out  of  deference  to  his  gifts,  which  I  alone  seem  to  recognize.  He  has  given  me,  over  the  last  half  year,  a  kilo  of  songs,  some  composed  hastily  on  napkins,  and  although  none  have  as  yet  found  succor  at  a  publishing  house,  he  insists  each  will  in  time  be  a  classic.  One  is  a  sophis-  ticated  bauble  called  &quot;If  You'll  Be  My  Puma  in  Yuma  I'll  Be  Your  Stork  in  New  York.&quot;  It's  best  crooned,  and  is  replete  with  clever  double  entendres.  |  &quot;Molting  Time,&quot;  by  contrast,  is  a  mourn-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  21  &amp;  28,  2000  ful  air  not  unlike  the  Irish  masterpiece  &quot;Danny  Boy.&quot;  I  agree  with  Pepkin  that  onlya  tenor  of  genius  could  do  it  justice.  A  beautiful  love  song  Pepkin  also  guar-  antees  me  will  eventually  top  the  charts  is  &quot;My  Lips  Will  Be  a  Little  Late  This  Year,&quot;  which  boasts  the  bittersweet  lyric  &quot;Embrace  me,  disgrace  me,  just  don't  erase  me  from  your  Rolodex.&quot;  For  la-  gniappe  in  this  delightful  salmagundi,  Pepkin  included  &quot;Stout-Hearted  Mice,&quot;  which,  he  assures  me,  is  the  kind  of  pa-  triotic  morale-builder  that,  in  the  event  of  all-out  nuclear  war,  will  glean  for  me  beaucoup  jack.  Still,  a  little  of  the  ready  for  my  Herculean  efforts  would  come  in  handy,  what  with  Foxy,  to  whom  I  am  engaged,  dropping  mail-fisted  hints  re-  garding  a  floor-length  winter  garment  in  the  marten  family.  June  10th:  I  am  experiencing  some  professional  problems,  which  I  realize  for  the  &quot;hands  on&quot;  type  of  shrink  I  am  is  par  for  the  course,  and  yet  to  sustain  a  subdural  hematoma  the  size  of  a  Burnk-  horst  knockwurst  I  feel  is  over  the  top.  The  other  night,  while  fast  asleep  af-  ter  an  arduous  day  of  psychoanalysis,  I  got  a  frantic  call  from  Pepkin's  wife.  At  the  moment  we  were  speaking  she  was  holding  Pepkin  at  bay  with  Mace.  Ap-  parently  she  had  been  critical  of  his  new  torch  song,  &quot;A  Side  Order  of  Heartache,  Please,&quot;  suggesting  it  could  beused  as  a  good  way  to  break  in  their  new  paper  shredder.  Realizing  what  tabloid  ban-  ner  lines  top-billing  Feebleman  could  do  to  a  discreet  practice  should  I  alert  the  fuzz,  I  bolted  from  my  apartment  in  my  underwear  and  sped  possessed  over  the  Fifty-ninth  Street  [REDACTED].  Arriving  at  Pepkin's,  I  found  husband  and  wife  feinting  around  the  kitchen  table,  each  trying  to  gain  purchase  for  a  strike.  Magda  Pepkin  gripped  a  spray  can,  Pepkin  a  souvenir  he  had  gotten  free  on  Bat  Day  at  Shea  Stadium.  Convinced  thata  firm  tone  was  needed,  I  stepped  between  the  two  and  cleared  my  throat  dramatically  just  as  Pepkin  swung  the  bat  at  his  wife,  crack  ing  my  head  with  the  sound  of  a  base-  clearing  triple.  I  staggered  forward,  smiling  unmotivatedly  at  what  I  imag-  ined  to  be  Alpha  Centauri,  and  recall  being  taken  to  the  local  hospital  emer-  gency  ward,  where  I  was  instantly  rushed  to  the  Intensive  Apathy  Unit.  As  for  recompense  for  what  one  col-    league  calls  &quot;Hippocratic  dedication  barely  discernible  from  cretinism,&quot;  I  re-  main  on  shaky  ground.  I  have  accumu-  lated  over  a  hundred  songs  in  lieu  of  any  suggestion  of  the  green  and  crinkly,  and  havenot  had  much  luck  selling  them.  That  not  a  single  music  maven  I  visited  could  find  a  molecule  of  promise  in  a  hot  cabaret  number  like  &quot;Make  with  the  Hormones&quot;  or  the  sublime  ballad  &quot;Early  Alzheimer's&quot;  has  given  me  fleeting  inti-  mations  that  Pepkin  may  not  be  the  next  Irving  [REDACTED].  Still,  in  his  lilting  &quot;Every-  thing's  Up  to  Date  at  Yonah  Schim-  mel's,&quot;  which  I  own  and  also  can't  milk  a  brass  farthing  from,  the  line  &quot;Knishes  and  wishes  are  only  for  the  young&quot;  makes  me  smile  with  a  rueful  irony.  Nov.  4th:  I  have  come  to  the  conclu-  sion  that  Pepkin  is  a  no-talent  zombie  momser.  The  center  began  to  spring  a  leak  when  I  discovered  that  a  series  of  tax  shelters  structured  to  maximize  my  earnings  had  begun  to  strike  the  LR.S.  as  curiously  similar  to  those  of  Al  Ca-  pone.  Disallowing  each  one  with  hand-  rubbing  glee,  the  Treasury  Department  elected  to  suction  my  holdings  to  the  tune  of  eight  times  my  net  worth.  Un-  able  toinhale  when  this  news  descended  upon  me  in  the  form  of  a  subpoena,  I  explained  to  Pepkin  that  I  could  no  longer  afford  to  treat  him  on  the  arm,  my  furniture  being  moved  out  by  federal  marshals  even  as  we  spoke.  Touched  by  this  request  for  some  measure  of  genu-  ine  coin  of  the  realm,  Pepkin  terminated  his  treatment,  and  on  the  advice  of  some  shyster  he  plays  eight-ball  with  sued  me  for  malpractice.  Unable  to  handle  the  sudden  down-  sizing  and  the  hardship  that  accrued  when  Bergdorf's  amputated  her  charge  account,  Foxy  Breitbart  exchanged  me  even  up  for  an  anorexic  four-eyed  pip-  squeak  whose  computer-chip  patent  catapulted  him,  at  twenty-five,  seven  notches  above  the  Sultan  of  Brunei  on  acertain  list  in  Forbes.  Meanwhile,  I  was  left  with  a  trunkful  of  sheet     THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  21  &amp;  28,  2000  music  with  titles  like  &quot;The  Earth-  worms  of  Tuscany&quot;  and  &quot;At  the  Spele-  ologists'  Ball.&quot;  I  tried  marketing  these  tiny  white  elephants,  to  no  avail,  and  even  checked  to  see  what  price  they  might  bring  if  sold  in  bulk  to  a  paper-  recycling  factory.  But  Pepkin's  coup  de  grace  was  yet  to  come,  and  come  it  did,  in  the  person  of  Wolf  Silverglide.  Sil-  verglide,  a  ferret  in  gabardine,  had  ex-  perienced  visions  advising  him  to  do  a  musical  reworking  of  &quot;Lysistrata&quot;  called  &quot;Not  Now,  I  Have  a  Headache.&quot;  Enlivened  by  clever  modern  songs,  this  Attic  chestnut,  which  happened  to  be  in  the  public  domain,  would,  in  Silver-  glide's  view,  turn  us  all  into  maharajas.  The  grapevine  clued  him  into  the  fact  that  I  owned  a  carload  of  unpub-  lished  songs  that  could  be  garnered  for  short  money.  Dusting  off  my  copy-  rights  at  last,  I  optioned  an  exaltation  of  hummable  ditties  to  Silverglide  in  return  for  some  shares  in  the  enterprise  and  a  vintage  black-and-white  TV  set,  and  his  brainchild  lurched  into  produc-  tion  sporting  a  complete  Murray  Pep-  kin  score.  The  best  number  was  a  torch  song  called  &quot;Italics  Mine,&quot;  which  boasted  the  magnificent  lyric  &quot;You're  fine,  like  rare  wine,  J  love  you  (italics  mine).&quot;  The  show  opened  to  mixed  notices.  The  Poultryman's  Journal  enjoyed  it,  as  did  Cigar  Magazine.  The  dailies,  along  with  Time  and  Newsweek,  were  more  reserved,  forming  a  consensus  best  summed  up  by  the  critic  who  called  it  &quot;a  black  hole  of  imbecility.&quot;  Unable  to  parse  the  reviews  and  come  up  with  any  kind  of  quote  ad  that  didn't  appear  life-  threatening,  Silverglide  folded  his  ex-  travaganza  like  a  deck  chair  and  blew  town  photon-fast,  leaving  me  to  deal  with  the  avalanche  of  plagiary  suits  that  poured  in.  It  seems  that  Maestro  Pepkin's  best  music  proved  upon  expert  testimony  to  be  a  scintilla  too  proximate  to  certain  trifles  like  &quot;Body  and  Soul,&quot;  &quot;Stardust,&quot;  and  even  that  old  military  rouser  that  begins  &quot;From  the  halls  of  Montezuma.&quot;  Meanwhile,  I'm  in  court  every  day,  and  although  it  appears  I'm  staring  off  into  the  middle  distance,  what  I'm  really  thinking  is  that  if  I  ever  run  into  the  undiscovered  van  Gogh  of  ASCAP  I  will  take  one  of  my  last  remaining  posses-  sions,  a  straight  razor,  and  cut  bof  his  ears  off  (italics  mine).