         They  wore  each  other  like  a  pair  of  socks.  He  was  at  her  house,  she  was  at  his.  Everywhere  they  went-to  the  mall,  to  the  game,  to  movies  and  shops  and  the  classes  that  structured  their  days  like  a  new  kind  of  chronol-  ogy-their  fingers  were  entwined,  their  shoulderstouching,  their  hips  joined  in  the  slow  triumphant  sashay  of  love.  He  drove  her  car,  slept  on  the  couch  in  the  family  room  at  her  parents'  house,  played  tennis  and  watched  football  with  her  father  on  the  big,  thirty-six-inch  TV  in  the  kitchen.  She  went  shopping  with  his  mother  and  hers,  a  triumvirate  of  tastes,  and  she  would  have  played  tennis  with  his  father,  if  it  came  to  it,  but  his  father  was  dead.  &quot;I  love  you,&quot;  he  told  her,  because  he  did,  because  there  T8  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  6,  2000  BY  T.  CORAGHESSAN  BOYLE  was  no  feeling  like  this,  no  triumph,  no  high-it  was  like  being  immortal  and  unconquerable,  like  floating.  And  a  hundred  timesa  day  she  said  it,  too:  &quot;I  love  you.  I  love  you.&quot;  They  were  together  at  his  house  one  night  when  the  rain  froze  on  the  streets  and  sheathed  the  trees  in  glass.  It  was  her  idea  to  take  a  walk  and  feel  it  in  their  hair  and  on  the  glistening  shoul-  ders  of  their  parkas,  an  otherworldly  drurming  of  pellets  flung  down  out  of  the  troposphere,  alien  and  familiar  at  the  same  time,  and  they  glided  the  length  of  the  front  walk  and  watched  the  way  the  power  lines  bellied  and  swayed.  He  built  a  fire  when  they  got  back,  while  she  towelled  her  hair  and  made  hot  chocolate  laced  with  Jack     Daniel's.  They'd  rented  a  pair  of  slasher  movies  for  the  ritualized  comfort  of  them-&quot;Teens  have  sex,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  then  they  pay  for  it  in  body  parts&quot;-and  the  maniac  had  just  climbed  out  of  the  heating  vent,  with  a  meat  hook  dan-  gling  from  the  recesses  of  his  empty  sleeve,  when  the  phone  rang.  It  was  his  mother,  calling  from  the  hotel  room  in  [REDACTED]  where  she  was  curled  up-shacked  up?-for  the  week-  end  with  the  man  she'd  been  dating.  He  tried  to  picture  her,  but  he  couldn't.  He  even  closed  his  eyes  a  minute,  to  con-  centrate,  but  there  was  nothing  there.  Was  everything  all  right?  she  wanted  to  know.  With  the  storm  and  all?  No,  it  hadn't  hit  [REDACTED]  yet,  but  she  saw  on  the  Weather  Channel  that  it  was  on  its  REUBEN  COX,  &quot;SUMMER,  1998&quot;  way.  Two  seconds  after  he  hung  up-  before  she  could  even  hit  the  Start  but-  ton  on  the  VCR-the  phone  rang  again,  and  this  time  it  was  her  mother.  Her  mother  had  been  drinking.  She  was  calling  from  a  restaurant,  and  4368696e61  could  hear  a  clamor  of  voices  in  the  background.  &quot;Just  stay  put,&quot;  her  mother  shouted  into  the  phone.  &quot;'The  streets  are  like  a  skating  rink.  Don't  you  even  think  of  getting  in  that  car.&quot;  Well,  she  wasn't  thinking  of  it.  She  was  thinking  of  having  Jeremy  to  her-  self,all  night,  in  the  big  bed  in  his  mother's  room.  They'd  been  having  sex  ever  since  they  started  going  together  at  the  end  of  their  junior  year,  but  it  was  always  sex  in  the  car  or  sex  on  a  blanket  or  the  lawn,  hurried  sex,  noth-  ing  like  she  wanted  it  to  be.  She  kept  thinking  of  the  way  it  was  in  the  mov-  ies,  where  the  stars  ambushed  each  other  on  beds  the  size  of  small  planets  and  then  did  it  again  and  again  until  they  lay  nestled  in  a  heap  of  pillows  and  blankets,  her  head  on  hischest,his  arm  flung  over  her  shoulder,  the  music  fading  away  to  individual  notes  plucked  softly  on  a  guitar  and  everything  in  the  frame  glowing  as  if  it  had  been  sprayed  with  liquid  gold.  That  was  how  it  was  supposed  to  be.  That  was  how  it  was  going  to  be.  At  least  for  tonight.  She'd  been  wandering  around  the  kitchen  as  she  talked,  dancing  with  the  phone  in  an  idle  slow  saraband,  watch  ing  the  frost  sketch  a  design  on  the  win-  dow  over  the  sink,  no  sound  but  the  soft  hiss  of  the  ice  pellets  on  the  roof,  and  now  she  pulled  open  the  freezer  door  and  extracted  a  pint  box  of  ice  cream.  She  was  in  her  socks,  socks  so  thick  they  were  like  slippers,  and  a  pair  of  black  leggings  under  an  oversize  sweater.  Be-  neath  her  feet,  the  polished  floorboards  were  as  slick  as  the  sidewalk  outside,  and  she  liked  the  feel  of  that,  skating  indoors  in  her  big  socks.  &quot;Uh-huh,&quot;  she  said  into  the  phone.  &quot;Uh-huh.  Yeah,  we're  watch,  ing  a  movie.&quot;  She  dug  a  finger  into  the  ice  cream  and  stuck  it  in  her  mouth.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  Jeremy  called  from  the  living  room,  where  the  maniac  rippled  menacingly  over  the  Pause  button.  &quot;You're  going  to  miss  the  best  part.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  Mom,  O.K.,&quot;  she  said  into  the  phone,  parting  words,  and  then  she  hung  up.  &quot;You  want  ice  cream?&quot;  she  called,  licking  her  finger.  Jeremy's  voice  came  back  at  her,  a  voice  in  the  middle  range,  with  a  con-  genital  scratch  in  it,  the  voice  of  a  nice  guy,  a  very  nice  guy  who  could  be  the  star  of  a  TV  show  about  nice  guys:  &quot;What  kind?&quot;  He  had  a  pair  of  shoul-  ders  and  pumped-up  biceps,  too,  a  smile  that  jumped  from  his  lips  to  his  eyes,  and  close-cropped  hair  that  stood  up  straight  off  the  crown  of  his  head.  And  he  was  always  singing-she  loved  that-his  voice  so  true  he  could  do  any  song,  and  there  was  no  lyric  he  didn't  know,  even  on  the  oldies  station.  She  scooped  ice  cream  and  saw  him  in  a  scene  from  last  summer,  one  hand  draped  casually  over  the  wheel  of  his  car,  the  radio  throbbing,  his  voice  raised  in  perfect  synch  with  Billy  Corgan's,  and  the  night  standing  still  at  the  end  of  a  longdark  street  overhung  with  maples.  &quot;Chocolate.  Swiss-chocolate  al-  mond.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  he  was  wondering  if  there  was  any  whipped  cream,  or  maybe  hot  fudge-he  was  sure  his  mother  had  a  jar  stashed  away  somewhere,  Look  behind  the  mayonnaise  on  the  top  row-and  when  she  turned  around  he  was  standing  in  the  doorway.  She  kissed  him-they  kissed  when-  ever  they  met,  no  matter  where  or  when,  even  if  one  of  them  had  just  stepped  out  of  the  room,  because  that  was  love,  that  was  the  way  love  was-and  then  they  took  two  bowls  of  ice  cream  into  the  liv-  ing  room  and,  with  a  flick  of  the  remote,  set  the  maniac  back  in  motion.  It  was  an  early  spring  that  year,  the  world  gone  green  overnight,  the  ther-  mometer  twice  hitting  the  low  eighties  in  the  first  week  of  March.  Teachers  were  holding  sessions  outside.  The  whole  school,  even  the  halls  and  the  cafeteria,  smelled  of  fresh-mowed  grass  and  the  unfolding  blossoms  of  the  fruit  trees  in  the  development  across  the  street,  and  students-especially  se-  niors-were  cutting  class  to  go  out  to  the  quarry  or  the  reservoir  or  to  just  drive  the  backstreets  with  the  sunroof  and  the  windows  open  wide.  But  not  4368696e61.  Shewas  hitting  the  books,  studying  late,  putting  everything  in  its  place  like  pegs  in  a  board,  even  love,  even  that.  Jeremy  didn't  get  it.  &quot;Look,  you've  already  been  accepted  at  your  first-choice  school,  you're  going  to  wind  up  in  the  top  ten  G.P.A.-wise,  and  you've  got  four  years  of  tests  and  term  papers  ahead  of  you,  and  grad  school  after  that.  You'll  only  be  a  high-school  senior  once  in  your  life.  Relax.  Enjoy  it.  Or  at  least  experience  it.&quot;  He'd  been  accepted  at  Brown,  his  fa-  ther's  alma  mater,  and  his  own  G.PA.  would  put  him  in  the  top  ten  per  cent  of  their  graduating  class,  and  he  was  content  with  that,  skating  through  his  final  semester,  no  math,  no  science,  taking  art  and  music,  the  things  he'd  al-  ways  wanted  to  take  but  never  had  time  for-and  Lit.,  of  course,  A.P.  History,  and  Spanish  5.  &quot;TH  eres  el  amor  de  mi  vida,&quot;  he  would  tell  her  when  they  met  at  her  locker  or  at  lunch  or  when  he  picked  her  up  for  a  movie  on  Saturday  nights.  &quot;Y  £  también,&quot;  she  would  say,  &quot;or  is  it  'yo  también'?&quot;-French  was  her  lan-  guage.  &quot;But  I  keep  telling  you  it  really  matters  to  me,  because  I  know  I'll  never  catch  Margery  Yu  or  Christian  Daven-  port,  I  mean  they're  a  lock  for  val  and  salut,  but  it'll  kill  me  if  people  like  Kerry  Sharp  or  Jalapy  Seegrand  finish  ahead  of  me-you  should  know  that,  you  of  all  people-&quot;  It  amazed  him  that  she  actually  brought  her  books  along  when  they  went  backpacking  over  spring  break.  They'd  planned  the  trip  all  winter  and  through  the  long  wind  tunnel  that  was  February,  packing  away  freeze-dried  entrées,  PowerBars,  Gore-Tex  windbreakers,  and  matching  sweatshirts,  weighing  each  item  on  a  handheld  scale  with  a  dangling  hook  at  the  bottom  of  it.  They  were  going  up  into  the  Catskills,  to  a  lake  he'd  found  on  a  map,  and  they  were  going  to  be  together,  without  interruption,  with-  out  telephones,  automobiles,  parents,  teachers,  friends,  relatives,  and  pets,  for  five  full  days.  They  were  going  to  cook  over  an  open  fire,  they  were  going  to  read  to  each  other  and  burrow  into  the  double  sleeping  bag  with  the  connubial  zipper  up  the  seam  he'd  found  in  his  mother's  closet,  a  relic  of  her  own  time  in  the  lap  of  nature.  It  smelled  of  her,  of  his  mother,  a  vague  scent  of  her  perfume  that  had  lingered  there  dormant  all  these  years,  and  maybe  there  was  the  faintest  whiff  of  his  father,  too,  though  his  father  had  been  gone  so  long  he  didn't  even  re-  member  what  he  looked  like,  let  alone    what  he  might  have  smelled  like.  Five  days.  And  it  wasn't  going  to  rain,  not  a  drop.  He  didn't  even  bring  his  fishing  rod,  and  that  was  love.  When  the  last  bell  rang  down  the  curtain  on  Honors  Math,  Jeremy  was  waiting  at  the  curb  in  his  mother's  Volvo  station  wagon,  grinning  up  at  4368696e61  through  the  windshield  while  the  rest  of  the  school  swept  past  with  no  thought  for  anything  but  release.  There  were  shouts  and  curses,  I  -shirts  in  mo-  tion,  slashing  legs,  horns  bleating  from  the  seniors'  lot,  the  school  buses  lined  up  like  armored  vehicles  awaiting  the  invasion-chaos,  sweet  chaos-and  she  stood  there  a  moment  to  savor  it.  &quot;Your  mother's  car?&quot;  she  said,  slipping  in  be-  side  him  and  laying  both  arms  over  his  shoulders  to  pull  him  to  her  for  a  kiss.  He'd  brought  her  jeans  and  hiking  boots  along,  and  she  was  going  to  change  as  they  drove,  no  need  to  go  home,  no  more  circumvention  and  delay,  a  stop  at  McDonald's,  maybe,  or  Burger  King,  and  then  it  was  the  sun  and  the  wind  and  the  moon  and  the  stars.  Five  days.  Five  whole  days.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  he  said,  in  answer  to  her  question,  &quot;my  mother  said  she  didn't  want  to  have  to  worry  about  us  break-  ing  down  in  the  middle  of  nowhere-&quot;  &quot;So  she's  got  your  car?  She's  going  to  sell  real  estate  in  your  car?&quot;  He  just  shrugged  and  smiled.  &quot;Free  at  last,&quot;  he  said,  pitching  his  voice  down  low  till  it  was  exactly  like  Martin  Lu-  ther  King's.  &quot;Thank  God  Almighty,  we  are  free  at  last.&quot;  It  was  dark  by  the  time  they  got  to  the  trailhead,  and  they  wound  up  camp-  ing  just  off  the  road  in  a  rocky  tumbleof  brush,  no  place  on  earth  less  likely  or  less  comfortable,  but  they  were  together,  and  they  held  each  other  through  the  damp  whispering  hours  of  the  night  and  hardly  slept  at  all.  They  made  the  lake  by  noon  the  next  day,  the  trees  just  com-  ing  into  leaf,  the  air  sweet  with  the  smell  of  the  sun  in  the  pines.  She  insisted  on  setting  up  the  tent,  just  in  case-it  could  rain,  you  never  knew-but  all  he  wanted  to  do  was  stretch  out  on  a  gray  neoprene  padand  feel  the  sun  on  his  face.  Even-  tually,  they  both  fell  asleep  in  the  sun,  and  when  they  woke  they  made  love  right  there,  beneath  the  trees,  and  with  the  wide  blue  expanse  of  the  lake  giving  |  back  the  blue  of  the  sky.  For  dinner,  it     was  étouffée  and  rice,  out  of  the  foil  pouch,  washed  down  with  hot  choco-  late  and  a  few  squirts  of  red  wine  from  Jeremy's  bota  bag.  The  next  day,  the  whole  day  through,  they  didn't  bother  with  clothes  at  all.  They  couldn't  swim,  of  course-the  lake  was  too  cold  for  that-but  they  could  bask  and  explore  and  feel  the  breeze  out  of  the  south  on  their  bare  legs  and  the  places  where  no  breeze  had  touched  be-  fore.  She  would  remember  that  always,  the  feel  of  that,  the  intensity  of  her  emo-  tions,  the  simple  unrefined  pleasure  of  living  in  the  moment.  Wood  smoke.  Duelling  flashlights  in  the  night.  The  look  on  Jeremy's  face  when  he  presented  her  with  the  bag  of  finger-size  crayfish  he'd  spent  all  morning  collecting.  What  else?  The  rain,  of  course.  It  came  midway  through  the  third  day,  clouds  the  color  of  iron  filings,  the  lake  hammered  to  iron,  too,  and  the  storm  that  crashed  through  the  trees  and  beat  at  their  tent  with  a  thousand  angry  fists.  They  huddled  in  the  sleeping  bag,  shar-  ingthe  wine  and  a  bag  of  trail  mix,  reading  to  each  other  from  a  book  of  Donne's  love  poems  (she  was  writing  a  paper  for  Mrs.  Masterson  called  &quot;Ocu-  lar  Imagery  in  the  Poetry  of  John  Donne&quot;)  and  the  last  third  of  a  vampire  novel  that  weighed  eighteen-point-one  ounces.  And  the  sex.  They  were  careful,  al-  ways  careful-I  will  never,  never  be  like  those  breeders  that  bring  their  puffed-up  squalling  little  red-faced  babies  to  class,  she  told  him,  and  he  agreed,  got  adamant  about  it,  even,  until  it  became  a  running  theme  in  their  relationship,  the  breeders  overpopulating  an  over-  populated  world  and  ruining  their  own  lives  in  the  process-but  she  had  for-  gotten  to  pack  her  pills  and  he  had  only  two  condoms  withhim,  and  it  wasn't  as  if  there  were  a  drugstore  around  the  corner.  n  the  fall-or  the  end  of  August,  actu-  ally-they  packed  their  cars  separately  and  left  for  college,  he  to  Providence  and  she  to  Binghamton.  They  were  separated  by  three  hundred  miles,  but  there  was  the  telephone,  there  was  E-mail,  and  for  the  first  month  or  so  there  were  Saturday  nights  in  a  motel  in  Danbury,  but  that  was  a  haul,  it  really  was,  and  they  both  agreed  that  they  should  focus  on  their  course  work  and  cut  back  to  every  sec-  ond  or  maybe  third  week.  On  the  day  they'd  left-and  no,  she  didn't  want  her  parents  driving  her  up  there,  she  was  an  adult  and  she  could  take  care  of  herself-  Jeremy  followed  her  as  far  as  the  Bear  Mountain  Bridge  and  they  pulledoff  the  road  and  held  each  other  till  the  sun  fell  down  into  the  trees.  She  had  a  poem  for  him,  a  Donne  poem,  the  saddest  thing  he'd  ever  heard.  It  was  something  about  the  moon.  More  than  moon,  that  was  it,  lovers  parting  and  their  tears  swelling  like  an  ocean  till  the  girl-the  woman,  the  female-had  more  power  to  raise  the  tides  than  the  moon  itself,  or  some  such.  More  than  moon.  That's  what  he  called  her  afterthat,  because  she  was  white  and  round  and  getting  rounder,  and  it  was  no  joke,  and  it  was  no  term  of  endearment.  She  was  pregnant.  Pregnant,  they  figured,  since  the  camping  trip,  and  it  was  their  secret,  a  new  constant  in  their  lives,  a  fact,  an  inescapable  fact  that  never  varied  no  matter  how  many  home-  pregnancy  kits  they  went  through.  Baggy  clothes,  that  was  the  key,  all  in  black,  cargo  pants,  flowing  dresses,  a  jacket  even  in  summer.  They  went  to  a  store  in  the  city  where  nobody  knew  them  and  shegot  a  girdle,  and  then  she  went  away  to  school  in  Binghamton  and  he  went  to  Providence.  &quot;You've  got  to  get  rid  of  it,&quot;  he  told  her  in  the  motel  room  that  had  become  a  prison.  &quot;Go  to  a  clinic,&quot;  he  told  her  for  the  hundredth  time,  and  outside  it  was  raining-or,  no,  it  was  clear  and  cold  that  night,  a  fore-  taste  of  winter.  &quot;I'll  find  the  money-  you  know  I  will.&quot;  She  wouldn't  respond.  Wouldn't  evenlook  at  him.  One  of  the  &quot;Star  Wars&quot;  movies  was  on  TV,  great  flat  thundering  planes  of  metal  roaring  across  the  screen,  and  she  was  just  sit-  ting  there  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  her  shoulders  hunched  and  hair  hanging  limp.  Someone  slammed  a  car  door-  two  doors  in  rapid  succession-and  a  child's  voice  shouted,  &quot;Me!  Me  first!&quot;  &quot;4368696e61,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Are  you  listening  to  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  can't,&quot;  she  murmured,  and  she  was  talkingto  her  lap,  to  the  bed,  to  the  floor.  &quot;I'm  scared.  I'm  so  scared.&quot;  There  were  footsteps  in  the  room  next  door,  ponderous  and  heavy,  then  the  quick  tattoo  of  the  child's  feet  and  a  sudden  thump  against  the  wall.  &quot;I  don't  want  anyone  to  know,&quot;  she  said.  He  could  have  held.  her,  could  have  squeezed  in  beside  her  and  wrapped  her  in  his  arms,  but  something  flared  in  him.  He  couldn't  understand  it.  He  just  couldn't.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking?  No-  body'll  know.  He'sa  doctor,  for  Christ's  sake,  sworn  to  secrecy,  the  doctor-patient  compact  and  all  that.  What  are  you  going  to  do,  keep  it?  Huh?  Just  show  up  for  English  101  with  a  baby  on  your  lap  and  say,  Hi,  I'm  the  Virgin  Mary'?&quot;  Shewas  crying.  He  could  see  it  in  the  way  her  shoulders  suddenly  crum-  pled  and  now  he  could  hear  it,  too,  a  soft  nasal  complaint  that  went  right  through  him.  She  lifted  her  face  to  him  and  held  out  her  arms  and  he  was  there  beside  her,  rockingher  back  and  forth  in  his  arms.  He  could  feel  the  heat  of  her  face  against  the  hard  fibre  of  his  chest,  a  wetness  there,  fluids,  her  fluids.  &quot;I  don't  want  a  doctor,&quot;  she  said.  And  that  colored  everything,  that  simple  negative:  life  in  the  dorms,  room-  mates,  bars,  bullshit  sessions,  the  smell  of  burning  leaves  and  the  way  the  light  fell  across  campus  in  great  wide  smoking  bands  just  before  dinner,  the  unofficial  skateboard  club,  films,  lectures,  pep  ral-  lies,  football-none  of  it  mattered.  He  couldn't  have  a  life.  Couldn't  be  a  fresh-  man.  Couldn't  wake  up  in  the  morning  and  tumble  into  the  slow  steady  current  of  the  world.  All  he  couldthink  of  was  her.  Or  not  simply  her-her  and  him,  and  what  had  come  between  them.  Be-  cause  they  argued  now,  they  wrangled  and  fought  and  debated,  and  it  was  no  pleasure  to  see  her  in  that  motel  room  with  the  queen-size  bedand  the  big  color  TV  and  the  soaps  and  shampoos  they  made  off  with  as  if  they  were  trea-  sure.  She  was  pigheaded,  stubborn,  irra-  tional.  Shewas  spoiled,  he  could  see  that  now,  spoiled  by  her  parents  and  their  standard  of  living  and  thesocioeco-  nomic  expectations  of  her  class-of  his  class-and  the  promise  of  life  as  you  like  it,  an  unscrolling  vista  of  pleasure  and  acquisition.  He  loved  her.  He  didn't  want  to  turn  his  back  on  her.  He  would  be  there  for  her  no  matter  what,  but  why  didshe  have  to  be  so  stupid?  ig  sweats,  huge  sweats,  sweats  that  drowned  and  engulfed  her,  that  was  her  campus  life,  sweats  and  the  dining  hall.  Her  dorm  mates  didn't  know  her,and  so  what  if  she  was  putting  on  weight?  Everybody  did.  How  could  you  shovel  down  all  those  carbohydrates,  all  that  sugar  and  grease  and  the  puddings  and  nachos  and  all  the  rest,  without  putting  on  tenor  fifteen  pounds  the  first  semester  alone?  Half  the  girls  in  the  dorm  were  waddling  around  like  the  Doughboy,  theirfaces  bloated  and  blotched  with  acne,  with  crusting  pim-  ples  and  whiteheads  fed  on  fat.  So  she  was  putting  on  weight.  Big  deal.  &quot;There's  more  of  me  to  love,&quot;  she  told  her  roommate,  &quot;and  Jeremy  likes  it  that  way.  And,  really,  he's  the  only  one  that  matters.&quot;  She  was  careful  to  shower  alone,  in  the  early  morning,  long  before  the  light  had  begun  to  bump  up  against  the  windows.  On  the  night  her  water  broke-it  was  mid-December,  almost  nine  months,  as  best  as  she  could  figure-it  was  rain-  ing.  Raining  hard.  All  week  she'd  been  having  tense  rasping  sotto-voce  debates  with  Jeremy  on  the  phone-arguments,  fights-and  she  told  him  that  she  would  die,  creep  out  into  the  woods  like  some  animal  and  bleed  to  death,  before  she'd  go  to  a  hospital.  &quot;And  what  am  I  supposed  to  do?&quot;  he  demanded  in  a  high  childish  whine,  as  if  he  were  the  one  who'd  been  knocked  up,  and  she  didn't  want  to  hear  it,  she  didn't.  &quot;Do  you  love  [REDACTED];  she  whispered.  There  was  a  long  hesitation,  apause  you  could  have  poured  all  the  affirmation  of  |  the  world  into.  «Yes,&quot;  he  said  finally,  his  voice  so  soft  and  reluctant  it  was  like  the  last  gasp  of  a  dying  old  man.  &quot;Then  you're  going  to  have  to  rent  the  motel.&quot;  &quot;And  then  what?&quot;  &quot;Then-I  don't  know.&quot;  The  door  was  open,  her  roommate  framed  there  in  the  hall,  a  burst  of  rock  and  roll  com-  ing  at  her  like  an  assault.&quot;I  guess  you'll  have  to  get  a  book  or  something.&quot;  By  eight,  the  rain  had  turned  to  ice  and  every  branch  of  every  tree  was  coated  with  it,  the  highway  littered  with  glistening  black  sticks,  no  moon,  no  1  stars,  the  tires  sliding  out  from  under  her,  and  she  felt  heavy,  big  as  a  sumo  wrestler,  heavy  and  loose  at  the  same  time.  She'd  taken  a  towel  from  the  dorm  and  put  it  under  her,  on  the  seat,  but  it  was  a  mess,  everything  was  a  mess.  Shewas  cramping.  Fidgeting  with  her  hair.  She  tried  the  radio,  but  it  was  no  help,  nothing  but  songs  she  hated,  singers  that  were  worse.  Twenty-  two  miles  to  Danbury  and  the  first  of  the  contractions  came  like  a  seizure,like  a  knife  blade  thrust  into  her  spine.  Her  world  narrowed  to  what  the  headlights  would  show  her.  Jeremy  was  waiting  for  her  at  the  door  to  the  room,  the  light  behind  him  a  pale  rinse  of  nothing,  no  smile  on  his  face,  no  human  expression  at  all.  They  didn't  kis-they  didn't  even  touch-  and  then  she  was  on  the  bed,  on  her  back,  her  face  clenched  like  a  fist.  She  heard  the  rattle  of  the  sleet  at  the  win-  dow,  the  murmur  of  the  TV:  I  can't  let  you  go  like  this,  a  man  protested,  and  she  could  picture  him,  angular  and  tall,  a  man  in  a  hat  and  overcoat  in  a  black-  and-white  world  that  might  have  been  another  planet,  I  just  can't.  &quot;Are  you-&quot;  Jeremy's  voice  drifted  into  the  mix,  and  then  stalled.  &quot;Are  you  ready?  I  mean,  is  it  time?  Is  it  coming  now?&quot;  She  said  one  thing  then,  one  thing  only,  her  voice  as  pinched  and  hollow  as  the  sound  of  the  wind  in  the  gutters:  &quot;Get  it  out  of  me.&quot;  It  took  a  moment,  and  then  she  could  feel  his  hands  fumbling  with  her  sweats.  Later,  hours  later,  when  nothing  had  happened  but  pain,  a  parade  of  pain  with  drum  majors  and  brass  bands  and  penitents  crawling  on  their  hands  and  knees  till  the  streets  were  stained  with  their  blood,  she  cried  out  and  cried  out  again.  &quot;It's  like  'Alien,'  &quot;  she  gasped,  &quot;like  that  thing  in  'Alien'  when  it,  it-&quot;  &quot;It's  O.K.,&quot;  he  kept  telling  her,  &quot;it's  O.K.,&quot;  but  hisface  betrayed  him.  He  looked  scared,  looked  as  if  he'd  been  drained  of  blood  in  some  evil  experi-  ment  in  yet  another  movie,  and  a  part  of  her  wanted  to  be  sorry  for  him,  but  another  part,  the  partthat  was  so  com-  manding  and  fierce  it  overrode  every-  thing  else,  couldn't  begin  to  be.  He  was  useless,  and  he  knew  it.  He'd  never  been  so  purely  sick  at  heart  and  terrified  in  all  his  life,  but  he  tried  to  be  there  for  her,  tried  to  do  his  best,  and  when  the  baby  came  out,  the  baby  girl  all  slick  with  blood  and  mucus  and  the  luraped  white  stuff  that  was  like  some-  thing  spilled  at  the  bottom  of  a  garbage  can,  he  was  thinking  of  the  ninth  grade  and  how  close  he'd  come  to  fainting  while  the  teacher  went  around  the  room  to  prick  their  fingers  one  by  one  so  they  each  could  smear  a  drop  of  blood  across  a  slide.  He  didn't  faint  now.  But  he  was  close  to  it,  so  close  he  could  feel  the  room  dodging  away  under  his  feet.  And  then  her  voice,  the  first  intelligible  thing  she'd  said  in  an  hour:  &quot;Get  rid  of  it.  Just  get  rid  of  it.&quot;  f  the  drive  back  to  Binghamton  he  remembered  nothing.  Or  practi-  cally  nothing.  They  took  towels  from  the  motel  and  spread  them  across  the  seat  of  her  car,  he  could  remember  that  much  .  ..  and  the  blood,  how  could  he  forget  the  blood?  It  soaked  through  her  sweats  and  the  towels  and  even  the  thick  cotton  bathmat  and  into  the  worn  fabric  of  the  seat  itself.  And  it  all  came  from  inside  her,  all  of  it,  tissue  and  mucus  and  the  shining  bright  fluid,  no  end  to  it,  as  if  she'd  been  turned  inside  out.  He  wanted  to  ask  her  about  that,  if  that  was  normal,  but  she  was  asleep  the  minute  she  slid  out  from  under  his  arm  and  dropped  into  the  seat.  If  he  focussed,  if  he  really  concentrated,  he  could  remem-  ber  the  way  her  head  lolled  against  the  doorframe  while  the  engine  whined  and  the  car  rocked  and  the  slush  threw  a  dark  blanket  over  the  windshield  every  time  a  truck  shot  past  in  the  opposite  direction.  That  and  the  exhaustion.  He'd     never  been  so  tired,  his  head  on  a  string,  shoulders  slumped,  his  arms  like  two  pillars  of  concrete.  And  what  if  he'd  nodded  off?  What  if  he'd  gone  into  a  skid  and  hurtled  over  an  embankment  into  the  filthy  gray  accumulation  of  the  worst  day  of  his  life?  What  then?  She  made  it  into  the  dorm  under  her  own  power,  nobody  even  looked  ather,  and,  no,  she  didn't  need  his  help.  &quot;Call  me,&quot;  she  whispered,  and  they  kissed,  her  lips  so  cold  it  was  like  kissing  a  steak  through  the  plastic  wrap,  and  then  he  parked  her  car  in  the  student  lot  and  walked  to  the  bus  station.  He  made  Danbury  late  that  night,  caught  a  ride  out  to  the  motel,  and  walked  right  through  the  &quot;Do  Not  Disturb&quot;  sign  on  the  door.  Fifteen  minutes.  That  was  all  it  took.  He  bundled  up  everything,  every  trace,  left  the  key  in  the  box  at  the  desk,  and  stood  scraping  the  ice  off  the  windshield  of  his  car  while  the  night  opened  up  above  him  to  a  black  glitter  of  sky.  He  never  gave  a  thought  to  what  lay  discarded  in  the  Dumpster  out  back,  itself  wrapped  in  plastic,  so  much  meat,  so  much  cold  meat.  e  was  at  the  very  pinnacle  of  his  dream,  the  river  dressed  in  its  currents,  the  deep  hole  under  the  cut-  bank,  and  the  fish  like  silver  bullets  swarming  to  his  bait,  when  they  woke      him-when  Rob  woke  him,  Rob  Greiner,  his  roommate,  Rob  with  a  face  of  crumbling  stone  andtwo  po-  licemen  there  at  the  door  behind  him  and  the  roar  of  the  dorm  falling  away  to  a  whisper.  And  that  was  strange,  po-  licemen,  a  real  anomaly  in  that  setting,  and  at  first-for  the  first  thirty  sec-  onds,  at  least-he  had  no  idea  what  they  were  doing  there.  Parking  tickets?  Could  that  be  it?  But  then  they  asked  him  his  name,  just  to  confirm  it,  joined  his  hands  together  behind  his  back,  and  fitted  two  loops  of  naked  metal  over  his  wrists,  and  he  began  to  under-  stand.  He  saw  McCaffrey  and  Tuttle  from  across  the  hall  staring  at  him  as  if  he  were  Jeffrey  Dahmer  or  something,  and  the  rest  of  them,  all  the  rest,  every  head  poking  out  of  every  door  up  and  down  the  corridor,  as  the  police  led  him  away.  &quot;What's  this  all  about?&quot;  he  kept  say-  ing,  the  cruiser  nosing  through  the  dark  streets  to  the  station  house,  the  man  at  the  wheel  and  the  man  beside  him  as  incapable  of  speech  as  the  seats  or  the  wire  mesh  or  the  gleaming  black  dash-  board  that  dragged  them  forward  into  the  night.  And  then  it  was  up  the  steps  and  into  an  explosion  of  light,  more  men  in  uniform,  stand  here,  give  me  your  hand,  now  the  other  one,  and  then  the  cage  and  the  questions.  Only  then  did  he  think  of  that  thing  in  the  gar-  bage  sack  and  the  sound  it  had  made-  its  bodyhad  made-when  he  flung  it  into  the  Dumpster  like  asack  of  flour  and  the  lid  slammed  down  on  it.  He  stared  at  the  walls,  and  this  was  a  movie,  too.  He'd  never  been  in  trouble  before,  never  been  inside  a  police  sta-  tion,  but  he  knew  his  role  well  enough,  because  he'd  seen  it  played  out  a  thou-  sand  times  on  the  tube:  deny  every-  thing.  Even  as  the  two  detectives  set-  tled  in  across  from  him  at  thebare  wooden  table  in  the  little  box  of  the  overlit  room  he  was  telling  himself  just  that:  Deny  it,  deny  it  all.  The  first  detective  leaned  forward  and  set  his  hands  on  the  table  asif  he'd  come  for  a  manicure.  He  was  inhis  thirties,  or  maybe  his  forties,  a  tired-  looking  man  with  the  sears  of  the  tur-  moil  he'd  witnessed  gouged  into  the  flesh  under  his  eyes.  He  didn't  offer  a  cigarette  (&quot;I  don't  smoke,&quot;  Jeremy  was  prepared  to  say,  giving  them  that  much  at  least),  and  he  didn't  smile  or  soften  his  eyes.  And  when  he  spoke  his  voice  carried  no  freight  at  all,  not  outrage  or  threat  or  cajolery-it  was  just  a  voice,  flat  and  tired.  &quot;Do  you  know  a  4368696e61  Berkowitz?&quot;  he  said.  And  she.  Shewas  in  the  commu-  nity  hospital,  where  the  ambulance  had  deposited  her  after  her  roommate  had  called  911  in  a  voice  that  was  like  a  bone  stuck  in  the  back  of  her  throat,  and  it  was  raining  again.  Her  parents  were  there,  her  mother  red-eyed  and  sniffling,  her  father  looking  like  an  actor  who  has  forgotten  his  lines,  and  there  was  another  woman  there,  too,  a  policewoman.  The  policewoman  sat  in  an  orange  plastic  chair  in  the  corner,  dipping  her  head  to  the  knitting  in  her  lap.  At  first,  4368696e61's  mother  had  tried  to  be  pleasant  to  the  woman,  but  pleasant  wasn't  what  the  circumstances  called  for,  and  now  she  ignored  her,  because  the  very  unpleasant  fact  was  that  4368696e61  was  being  taken  into  cus-  tody  as  soon  as  she  was  released  from  the  hospital.  For  a  long  while  no  one  said  any-  thing-everything  had  already  been  said,  over  and  over,  one  long  flood  of  hurt  and  recrimination-and  the  anti-  septic  silence  of  the  hospital  held  them  in  its  grip  while  the  rain  beat  at  the  windows  and  the  machines  at  the  foot  of  the  bed  counted  off  numbers.  From  down  the  hall  came  a  snatch  of  TV  di-  alogue,  and  for  a  minute  4368696e61  opened  her  eyes  and  thought  she  was  back  in  the  dorm.  &quot;Honey,&quot;  her  mother  said,  raising  a  purgatorial  face  to  her,  &quot;are  you  all  right?  Can  I  get  you  anything?&quot;  &quot;I  need  to-I  think  I  need  to  pee.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  her  father  demanded,  and  it  was  the  perfect  non  sequitur.  He  was  up  out  of  the  chair,  standing  over  her,  his  eyes  like  cracked  porcelain.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  tell  us,  or  at  least  tell  your  mother-or  Dr.  Fredman?  Dr.  Fred-  man,  at  least.  He's  been-he's  like  a  family  member,  you  know  that,  and  he  could  have,  or  he  would  have  .  .  .  What  were  you  thinking,  for  Christ's  sake?&quot;  Thinking?  She  wasn't  thinking  any-  thing,  not  then  and  not  now.  All  she  wanted-and  she  didn't  care  what  they  did  to  her,  beat  her,  torture  her,  drag  her  weeping  through  the  streets  in  a  dirty  white  dress  with  &quot;Baby  Killer&quot; stitched  over  her  breast  in  scarlet  let-  ters-was  to  see  Jeremy.  Just  that.  Be-  cause  what  really  mattered  was  what  he  was  thinking.  he  food  at  the  Sarah  Barnes  Cooper  Women's  Correctional  Institute  was  exactly  what  they  served  at  the  dining  hall  in  college,  heavy  on  the  sugars,  starches,  and  bad  choles-  terol,  and  that  would  have  struck  her  as  ironic  if  she'd  been  there  under  other  circumstances-doing  commu-  nity  outreach,  say,  or  researching  a  paper  for  sociology  class.  But  given  the  fact  that  she'd  been  locked  up  for  more  than  a  month  now,  the  object  of  the  other  girls'  threats,  scorn,  and  just  plain  nastiness,  given  the  fact  that  her  life  was  ruined  beyond  any  hope  of  re-  demption,  and  every  newspaper  in  the  country  had  her  shrunken  white  face  plastered  across  its  front  page  under  a  headline  that  screamed  &quot;MOTEL  MOM,&quot;  she  didn't  have  much  use  for  irony.  She  was  scared  twenty-four  hours  a  day.  Scared  of  the  present,  scared  of  the  fu-  ture,  scared  of  the  reporters  waiting  for  the  judge  to  set  bail  so  that  they  could  swarm  all  over  her  the  minute  she  stepped  out  the  door.  She  couldn't  concentrate  on  the  books  and  maga-  zines  her  mother  brought  her,  or  even  on  the  TV  in  the  rec  room.  She  sat  in  her  room-it  was  a  room,  just  like  a  dorm  room,  except  that  they  locked  you  in  at  night-and  stared  at  the  walls,  eating  peanuts,  M&amp;M's,  sun-  flower  seeds  by  the  handful,  chewing  for  the  pure  animal  gratification  of  it.  She  was  putting  on  more  weight,  and  what  did  it  matter?  Jeremy  was  different.  He'd  lost  everything-his  walk,  his  smile,  the  muscles  of  his  upper  arms  and  shoul-  ders.  Even  his  hair  lay  flat  now,  as  if  he  couldn't  bother  with  a  tube  of  gel  and  a  comb.  When  she  saw  him  at  the  ar-  raignment,  saw  him  for  the  first  time  since  she'd  climbed  out  of  the  car  and  limped  into  the  dorm  with  the  blood  wet  on  her  legs,  he  looked  like  a  refugee,  like  a  ghost.  The  room  they  were  in-the  courtroom-seemed  to  have  grown  up  around  them,  walls,  windows,  benches,  lights,  and  radiators  already  in  place,  along  with  the  judge,  the  American  flag,  and  the  ready-made  spectators.  It  was  hot.  People  coughed  into  their  fists  and  shuffled  their  feet,  every  sound  magnified.  The  judge  presided,  his  arms  like  bones  twirled  in  a  bag,  his  eyes  searching  and  opaque  as  he  peered  over  the  top  of  his  reading  glasses.  4368696e61's  lawyer  didn't  like  Jeremy's  lawyer,  that  much  was  evident,  and  the  state  prosecutor  didn't  like  anybody.  She  watched  him-Jeremy,  only  him-as  the  reporters  held  their  collective  breath  and  the  judge  read  off  the  charges  and  her  mother  bowed  her  head  and  sobbed  into  the  bucket  of  her  hands.  And  Je-  remy  was  watching  her,  too,  his  eyes  locked  on  hers  asif  he  defied  them  all,  as  if  nothing  mattered  in  the  world  but  her,  and  when  the  judge  said  First-  degree  murder  and  Murder  by  abuse  or  neglect  he  never  flinched.  She  sent  him  a  note  that  day-&quot;I  love  you,  will  always  love  you  no  matter  what,  More  than  Moon&quot;-and  in  the  hallway,  afterward,  while  their  lawyers  fended  off  the  reporters  and  the  bailiffs  tugged  impatiently  at  them,  they  had  a  minute,  just  a  minute,  to  themselves.  &quot;What  did  you  tell  them?&quot;  he  whis-  pered.  His  voice  was  a  rasp,  almost  a  growl;  she  looked  at  him,  inches  away,  and  hardly  recognized  him.  &quot;I  told  them  it  was  [REDACTED];  &quot;My  lawyer-Mrs.  Teagues?-she  says  they're  saying  it  was  alive  when  we,  when  we  put  it  in  the  bag.&quot;  His  face  was  composed,  but  his  eyes  were  darting  like  insects  trapped  inside  his  head.  &quot;It  was  [REDACTED];  &quot;It  looked  dead,&quot;  he  said,  and  already  he  was  pulling  away  from  her  and  some  callous  shit  with  a  camera  kept  annihi-  lating  them  with  flash  after  flash  of  light,  &quot;and  we  certainly  didn't-I  mean,  we  didn't  slap  it  or  anything  to  get  it  breathing.  ...&quot;  And  then  the  last  thing  he  saidto  her,  just  as  they  were  pulled  apart,  and  it  was  nothing  she  wanted  to  hear,  nothing  that  had  any  love  in  it,  or  even  the  hint  of  love:  &quot;You  told  me  to  get  rid  of  it.&quot;  here  was  no  elaborate  name  for  the  place  where  they  were  keeping  him.  It  was  known  as  Drum  Hill  Prison,  period.  No  reform-minded  no-  tions  here,  no  verbal  gestures  toward  rehabilitation  or  behavior  modification,  no  benefactors,  mayors,  or  role  models to  lend  the  place  their  family  names,  but  then  who  in  his  right  mind  would  want  a  prison  named  after  him  any-  way?  At  least  they  kept  him  separated  from  the  other  prisoners,  the  gang-  bangers  and  dope  dealers  and  sexual  predators  and  the  like.  He  was  no  longer  a  freshman  at  Brown,  not  offi-  cially,  but  he  had  his  books  and  his  course  notes  and  he  tried  to  keep  up  as  best  he  could.  Still,  when  the  screams  echoed  through  the  cell  block  at  night  and  the  walls  dripped  with  the  accu-  mulated  breath  of  eight  and  a  half  thousand  terminally  angry  sociopaths,  he  had  to  admit  it  wasn'tthe  sort  of  college  experience  he'd  bargained  for.  And  what  had  he  done  to  deserve  it?  He  still  couldn't  understand.  That  thing  in  the  Dumpster-and  he  re-  fused  to  call  it  human,  let  alone  a  baby-was  nobody's  business  but  his  and  4368696e61's.  That's  what  he'dtold  his  attorney,  Mrs.  Teagues,  and  his  mother  and  her  boyfriend,  Howard,  and  he'd  told  them  over  and  over  again:  I  didn't  doanything  wrong.  Even  if  it  was  alive,  and  it  was,  he  knew  in  his  heart  that  it  was,  even  before  the  state  prosecu-  tor  presented  evidence  of  blunt-force  trauma  and  death  by  asphyxiation  and  exposure,  it  didn't  matter,  or  shouldn't  have  mattered.  There  was  no  baby.  There  was  nothing  but  a  mistake,  a  mistake  clothed  in  blood  and  mucus.  When  he  really  thought  about  it,  thought  it  through  on  its  merits  and  dissected  all  his  mother's  pathetic  ar-  guments  about  where  he'd  be  today  if  she'd  felt  as  he  did  when  she  was  preg-  nant  herself,  he  hardened  like  a  rock,  like  sand  turning  to  stone  under  all  the  pressure  the  planet  can  bring  to  bear.  Another  unwanted  child  in  an  over-  populated  world?  They  should  have  given  him  a  medal.  It  was  the  end  of  January  before  bail  was  set-three  hundred  and  fifty  thou-  sand  dollars  his  mother  didn't  have-  andhe  was  released  to  house  arrest.  He  wore  a  plastic  anklet  that  set  off  an  alarm  if  he  went  out  the  door,  and  so  did  she,  so  did  4368696e61,  imprisoned  like  some  fairy-tale  princess  at  her  parents'  house.  At  first,  she  called  him  every  day,  but  mostly  what  she  did  was  cry-  &quot;I  want  to  see  it,&quot;  she  sobbed.  &quot;I  want  to  see  our  daughter's  grave.&quot;  That  froze  him  inside.  He  tried  to  picture  her-  her  now,  4368696e61,  the  love  of  his  life-  and  he  couldn't.  What  didshe  look  like?  What  was  her  face  like,  her  nose,  her  hair,  her  eyes  and  breasts  and  the  slit  between  her  legs?  He  drew  a  blank.  There  was  no  way  to  summon  her  the  way  she  used  to  be  or  even  the  way  she  was  in  court,  because  all  he  could  remember  was  the  thing  that  had  come  out  of  her,  four  limbs  and  the  equipment  of  a  female,  shoulders  rigid  and  eyes  shut  tight,  as  if  she  were  a  mummy  in  a  tomb  ...  and  the  breath,  the  shuddering  long  gasping  rattle  of  a  breath  he  could  feel  ringing  inside  her  even  as  the  black  plastic  bag  closed  over  her  face  and  the  lid  of  the  Dump-  ster  opened  like  a  mouth.  He  was  in  the  den,  watching  basket,     ball,  a  drink  in  his  hand  (7Up  mixed  with  Jack  Daniel's  in  a  ceramic  mug,  so  no  one  would  know  he  was  getting  shit,  faced  at  two  o'clock  on  a  Sunday  after-  noon),  when  the  phone  rang.  It  was  Sarah  Teagues.  &quot;Listen,  Jeremy,&quot;  she  said  in  her  crisp,  equitable  tones,  &quot;I  thought  you  ought  to  know-the  Ber-  kowitzes  are  filing  a  motion  to  have  the  case  against  4368696e61  dropped.&quot;  His  mother's  voice  on  the  portable,  too  loud,  a  blast  of  amplified  breath  and  static:  &quot;On  what  grounds?&quot;  &quot;She  never  saw  the  baby,  that's  what  they're  saying.  She  thought  she  had  a  miscarriage.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  right,&quot;  his  mother  said.  Sarah  Teagues  was  right  there,  her  voice  as  clear  and  present  as  his  moth-  er's.  &quot;Jeremy's  the  one  that  threw  it  in  the  Dumpster,  and  they're  saying  he  acted  alone.  She  took  a  polygraph  test  day  before  yesterday.&quot;  He  could  feel  his  heart  pounding  like  it  used  to  when  he  plodded  up  that  last  agonizing  ridge  behind  the  school  with  the  cross-country  team,  his  legs  sapped,  no  more  breath  left  in  his  body.  He  didn't  say  a  word.  Didn't  even  breathe.  &quot;She's  going  to  testify  against  him.&quot;  Outside  was  the  world,  puddles  of  ice  clinging  to  the  lawn  under  a  weak  afternoon  sun,  all  the  trees  stripped  bare,  the  grass  dead,  the  azalea  under  the  window  reduced  to  an  arm-  load  of  dead  brown  twigs.  She  wouldn't  have  wanted  to  go  out  today  anyway.  This  was  the  time  of  year  she  hated  most,  the  long  interval  between  the  holidays  and  spring  break,  when  noth-  ing  grew  and  nothing  changed-it  didn't  even  seem  to  snow  much  any-  more.  What  was  out  there  for  her  any-  way?  They  wouldn't  let  her  see  Jeremy,  wouldn't  even  let  her  talk  to  him  on  the  phone  or  write  him  anymore,  and  she  wouldn't  be  able  to  show  her  face  at  the  mall  or  even  the  movie  theatre  without  somebody  shouting  out  her  name  as  if  she  were  a  freak,as  if  she  were  another  Monica  Lewinsky  or  Heidi  Fleiss.  She  wasn't  4368696e61  Ber-  kowitz,  honor  student,  not  anymore-  she  was  the  punch  line  to  a  joke,  a  footnote  to  history.  She  wouldn't  mind  going  fora  drive,  though-that  was  something  she  missed,  just  following  the  curves  |  out  to  the  reservoir  to  watch  the  way  the  ice  cupped  the  shore,  or  up  to  the  turnout  on  Route  9  to  look  out  over  the  river  where  it  oozed  through  the  mountains  in  a  shimmering  coil  of  light.  Or  to  take  a  walk  in  the  woods,  just  that.  She  was  in  her  room,  on  her  bed,  posters  of  bands  she'd  outgrown  staring  down  from  the  walls,  her  high-  school  books  on  two  shelves  in  the  corner,  the  closet  door  flung  open  on  all  the  clothes  she'd  once  wanted  so  desperately  she  could  have  died  for  each  individual  pair  of  boots  or  the  cashmere  sweaters  that  felt  so  good  against  her  skin.  At  the  bottom  of  her  left  leg,  down  there  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  was  the  anklet  she  wore  now,  the  plastic  anklet  with  the  transmitter  in-  side,  no  different,  she  supposed,  than  the  collars  they  put  on  wolves  to  track  them  across  all  those  miles  of  barren  tundra  or  the  bears  sleeping  in  their  dens.  Except  that  hers  had  an  alarm  on  it.  For  a  long  while  she  just  lay  there  gazing  out  the  window,  watching  the  rinsed-out  sun  slip  down  into  the  sky  that  had  no  more  color  in  it  than  a  TV  tuned  to  an  unsubscribed  channel,  and  then  she  found  herself  picturing  things  the  way  they  were  an  eon  ago,  when  everything  was  green.  She  saw  the  aza-  lea  bush  in  bloom,  the  leaves  knifing  out  of  the  trees,  butterflies-or  were  they  cabbage  moths?-hovering  over  the  flowers.  Deep  green.  That  was  the  color  of  the  world.  And  she  was  re-  l  membering  a  night,  summer  before  last,  just  after  she  and  Jeremy  started  going  together,  the  crickets  thrumming,  the  air  thick  with  humidity,  and  him  sing-  ing  along  with  the  car  radio,  his  voice  so  sweet  and  pure  it  was  asif  he'd  writ-  ten  the  song  himself,  just  for  her.  And  when  they  got  to  where  they  were  go-  ing,  at  the  end  of  that  dark  lane  over-  hung  with  trees,  to  a  place  where  it  was  private  and  hushed  and  the  night  fell  in  on  itself  as  if  it  couldn't  support  the  weight  of  the  stars,  he  was  as  nervous  as  she  was.  She  moved  into  his  arms  and  they  kissed,  his  lips  groping  for  hers  in  the  dark,  his  fingers  trembling  over  the  thin  yielding  silk  of  her  blouse.  He  was  Jeremy.  He  was  the  love  of  her  life.  And  she  closed  her  eyes  and  clung  to  f  him  asif  that  were  all  that  mattered. 