FICTION  THE  GLASS  HOUSE     BY  CHRIS  ADRIAN  *  ts  e  ngs  gie  spi  t  Comme  +  gere     «  OU  are  your  brother's  image,&quot;  i  said  Captain  Brewer.  This  wasn't  exactly  true.  Will  Fie  and  his  brother,  Sam,  looked  alike  in  the  face,  but  Will  was  a  much  big-  ger  boy.  He  stood  six  feet  three  in  his  socks,  weighed  two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds,  and  wasn't  the  least  bit  fat.  And  although  Sam  was  threeyears  older,  he  had  had  to  leave  off  beating  up  on  his  little  brother  when  he  turned  twelve.  Will  had  learned  to  catch  Sam's  punches  easily,  and  his  fist  was  like  a  crab  apple  in  Will's  big  hand.  &quot;If  you're  half  as  brave  as  him,  we're  lucky  to  have  you.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not,&quot;  said  Will.  Captain  Brewer  thought  he  was  joking.  Will  was  strong,  and  stubborn,  and  often  obedient.  But  if  bravery  were  one  of  his  qualities,  he  would  not  have  been  frightened  to  stay  at  home.  He  would  not  have  been  fright-  ened  to  open  the  door  to  his  bedroom  when  his  mother  brought  the  news  of  his  brother's  death  upstairs.  The  door  had  shaken  as  if  assaulted  by  a  strong  wind,  and  he  had  not  wanted  to  open  it  because  he'd  thought,  just  for  a  moment,  that  a  door  could  bar  such  news  from  his  life.  Captain  Brewer  was  in  Syracuse  to  help  recruit  replacements  for  those  who  had  fallen,  like  Sam,  at  Bull  Run.  The  Captain  had  written  to  the  Fies,  saying  that  he  would  like  to  venerate  in  person  the  parents  who  had  raised  such  a  boy  as  Sam  Fie.  But  before  the  Captain  could  visit,  Will  had  proceeded  to  Syra-  cuse  with  a  forged  letter.  In  it  his  ,  mother  expressed  her  love  for  the  Cap-  &amp;  tain.  Here  was  her  other  son,  whom  she  é  could  not  dissuade  from  going  to  the  5  war.  She  vouched  for  his  age,  and  asked  &amp;  that  the  Captain  take  good  care  of  him.  5  In  fact,  she  had  spat  on  the  Captain  and  his  name,  and  hisoffer  of  a  visit,  calling  him  a  murderer,  and  saying,  &quot;How  dare  he  show  his  face  here?&quot;  Over  meals  that  for  Will  were  at  first  a  hard  chore  and  then  a  deep  misery,  she'd  proclaim  that  she  did  not  doubt  that  Captain  Brewer  had  sent  Sam  to  his  death.  Then  she  would  pound  her  fist  against  her  heart,  and  put  down  her  head  to  cry  while  Will  and  his  father  stared  at  their  cooling  meat.  They  would  remain  that  way  for  so  long  that  Will  imagined  they  might  sit  like  that  forever,  a  miserable  tableau  vivant.  Some  enterprising  fellow  might  come  along  and  cut  away  a  wall  of  their  house,  so  curious  people  could  pay  a  dime  to  file  by  and  peep  in  on  them.  There  would  be  a  sign:  &quot;Toll  of  War  in  Onondaga  County,  New  York-Sep-  tember,  1862.&quot;  Will  had  left  his  parents'  house  late  at  night.  His  mother  lay  asleep  on  the  green  sofa  upon  which  she  had  made  it  her  custom  to  grieve  until  exhausted.  He  looked  at  her  breathing  noisily  through  her  open  mouth,  and  debated  whether  he  ought  to  kiss  her  goodbye.  As  he  leaned  down,  he  thought  better  of  it-she  might  wake,  after  all,  and  in-  augurate  some  sort  of  hideous,  tear-  soaked  scene.  He  turned  away  from  her,  and  imagined,  as  he  walked  through  the  door,  that  Sam's  ghost  went  past  him,  taking  his  place  in  the  house  as  surely  as  he  was  taking  Sam's  place  in  the  war.  Captain  Brewer  shook  his  hand,  and  then  embraced  him.  He  was  mustered  into  the  194th  New  York  Volunteers.  Its  local-minded  members  called  it  the  Sixth  Onondaga.  The  Captain  insisted  that  Will  join  his  own  company,  Com-  pany  A,  to  which  Sam  had  belonged.  He  sent  his  bounty  money  home  to  his  parents,  along  with  a  short  note:  &quot;Now  I  am  oneof  Father  Abraham's  three  hun-  dred  thousand.  Goodbye.&quot;  Six  dead  men  without  shoes-their  feet  are  swollen  and  their  swollen  chests  have  burst  the  buttons  on  their  shirts.  Behind  them  is  a  broken  wagon,  hooked  to  a  dead  horse.  In  the  distance,  a  church  where  pacifists  once  gathered  to  worship.  N  [REDACTED],  on  the  way  to  Harpers  Ferry,  where  the  Sixth  had  been  called  to  help  put  an  end  to  General  Lee's  frolicking,  he  saw  his  first  Reb,  a  dead  one  who  lay  where  he'd  been  killed  out-  side  a  church  at  Burkittsville.  Wounded  were  moaning  inside  the  church.  &quot;What  a  hymn!&quot;  said  Jolly  Forbes,  a  long-faced  boy  who  was  one  of  the  few  who  would  associate  with  Will.  Company  A  had  welcomed  him  in-  itially.  A  cry  of  &quot;Sam's  brother!&quot;  had  followed  him  wherever  he  went.  Total  strangers  embraced  him  and  wet  his  thick  neck  with  tears.  &quot;It  is  good  to  see  you,  my  friend&quot;  was  a  common  refrain.  &quot;I  am  not  your  friend&quot;  was  Will's  un-  varying  reply.  So  great  was  their  love  and  respect  for  Sam's  memory-there  were  an  even  dozen  men  who  claimed  he'd  saved  their  lives-that  the  men  of  Com-  pany  A  might  have  let  this  rude  behavior  slide,  and  loved  Will  even  though  he  was  sullen  and  wanted  no  friends.  But  he  was  actively  boorish,  and  proved  himself  to  be  a  great  ruiner  of  fun.  While  they  were  encamped  outside  [REDACTED],  some  man's  cousin  had  attempted  to  sneak  in  a  barrel  of  whiskey.  She  dressed  it  up  in  a  little  white  frock,  put  a  white  bonnet  on  it,  and  heaped  it  with  soft  blankets.  Soldiers  cooed  over  it,  reached  into  the  perambulator  and  pretended  to  stroke  its  chin.  Jolly  came  byand  looked  in.  &quot;Madame,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that  is  the  hand-  somest  baby  I  have  ever  seen.&quot;  Will  was  behind  him,  and  when  he  saw  what  it  was  he  reached  in,  grabbed  it,  and  dashed  that  baby  to  the  ground.  Where  Sam  had  saved  men  by  the  dozen,  Will  put  them  into  the  guard-  house  with  his  tattling.  Begging  Sam's  forgiveness,  they  cursed  loudly  against  the  Devil-sent  prig.  Will  was  thrown  out  of  the  Tiger  Mess,  where  Sam  had  been  a  member.  The  other  members  wrote  out  a  dishonorable  discharge  on  a  gigantic  piece  of  hardtack.  Expelled  for  crimes  against  good-naturedness,  it  said.  From  then  on,  he  messed  alone  or  with  Jolly  and  assorted  other  rejects,  who  had  named  themselves  the  Leper  Mess.  Outside  the  church,  two  men  were  busy  around  the  dead  Rebel.  A  photog-  rapher  was  shouting  at  his  assistant  in  French.  Will  knew  enough  French  to  understand  that  the  fat  little  photogra-  pher-he  was  only  about  five  feet  tall,  and  shaped  just  like  an  egg-was  very  displeased.  He  wanted  the  assistant  to  turn  the  dead  boy's  face  in  to  the  sun,  but  the  corpse  was  ripe  and  the  assistant  appeared  to  believe  that  to  touch  him  would  be  bad  for  his  own  health.  The  photographer  stomped  over,  reached  up  T3  to  grab  his  assistant  by  the  neck,  and  threw  him  down  onto  the  dead  boy,  whose  arm  flopped  over  him  in  an  em-  brace.  He  scampered  away,  howling  as  if  the  dead  boyhad  bitten  him.  The  round  photographer  bent  down  and  began  to  compose  the  Reb's  limbs  very  carefully.  He  stretched  out  the  boy's  arm  above  his  shoulder  in  the  grass,  and  opened  his  hand.  The  photographer  looked  up,  and  scowled  at  Will.  &quot;Your  goggling  eyes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  are  you  looking  at?&quot;  Just  then,  Captain  Brewer  rode  up  alongside  in  the  passing  column.  &quot;Walk  on,  Private,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There's  no  time  for  dillydallying.&quot;  Will  looked  a  little  longer  at  the  dead  boy.  He  was  wondering  how  Sam  had  fallen,  if  he  had  looked  the  same  asthis  swollen,  fly-  blown  boy.  He  turned  and  gave  the  Captain  a  stiff  salute,  then  continued  walking.  Not  fifteen  minutes  from  the  church,  they  passed  the  battlefield  of  South  Mountain.  Dead  Rebels  were  stacked  shoulder-high  along  the  road.  He  looked  down  at  the  ground  as  he  passed  the  dead  boys,  afraid  to  meet  their  staring  eyes.  There  would  have  been  a  funeral  for  Sam,  back  in  Onon-  daga  County,  which  he  had  missed.  Had  his  mother  thrown  herself  into  Sam's  cold  arms?  Jolly  had  dropped  out  of  line  to  walk  with  Will  again.  He  held  up  his  can-  teen  to  the  orderly  dead  before  he  took  a  drink  of  water.  &quot;To  your  health,  boys,&quot;  he  said.  They  are  swollen  in  this  picture,  too.  It  al-  most  makes  them  look  healthy,  such  big  barrel  chests,  such  thick  legs,  their  clothes  can  barely  contain  them.  They  le  along  a  fence  in  various  positions.  This  one  has  got  his  hands  thrown  over  hisshoulders.  That  onehas  got  his  hand  on  his  belly.  Where  are  their  shoes?  THE  Sixth  Onondaga  was  ordered  away  from  Harpers  Ferry  just  as  they  reached  it,  drawn  down  off  the  mountain  by  General  McClellan's  suck-  ing,  gluttonous  need  for  reinforcements.  But  they  arrived  too  late  to  participate  at  Antietam.  Will  spent  the  night  of  September  17th  helping  to  carry  the  wounded  in.  If  they  were  not  too  frag-  ile,  he  could  carry  them  oneunder  each  arm.  The  darkness  was  a  mercy.  It  was  easier  to  venture  among  the  dead  when  you  could  not  see  them.  At  dawn  he  74  was  squatting  by  a  small  fire,  drinking  coffee  with  Jolly.  The  sun  came  up  and  seemed  to  shine  specifically  on  a  house  near  a  line  of  battered  woods.  The  walls  were  laced  with  cannonball  holes,  but  a  merry  white  column  of  smoke  was  ris,  ing  from  the  broken  chimney.  &quot;Sometimes,&quot;  said  Jolly,  rolling  his  tin  cup  between  his  hands,  &quot;I  worry  that  there  is  no  purpose  to  anything.  That  would  be  the  very  worst  news,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;God  has  abandoned  that  field,  at  least,&quot;  Will  said,  hooking  his  thumb  over  his  shoulder  to  point  at  the  piled  dead  of  the  Irish  Brigade.  It  was  his  shame  that  he  lacked  faith,  but  it  made  a  sort  of  wicked  sense  to  him  that  the  universe  should  be  an  orphan,  its  own  only  parent,  raised  on  a  diet  of  self-  taught,  ignorant  cruelty.  He  worried  thatthere  was  nothing  beyond  the  tan-  gible  world,  that  there  was  nothing  be-  yond  death  but  oblivion.  On  the  way  to  Harpers  Ferry,  he  had  imagined  his  own  death,  trying  to  decide  if  he  wanted  to  linger  or  go  in  a  flash.  These  thoughts  were  his  dispiriting  occupation  since  he  had  become  a  soldier.  He  had  started  to  fear  God,  even  though  he  was  certain  there  was  no  such  fellow,  and  worried  that  some  punishment  greater  than  a  joyless  life  might  be  in  store  for  him.  &quot;I  think  I  shall  be  melancholy  for  a  while,&quot;  said  Jolly.  He  looked  too  much  like  Will's  brooding  mother,  so  Will  left.  He  was  intercepted  by  a  spindly  corporal,  who  brought  him  to  Captain  Brewer's  tent.  The  little  Frenchman  was  there,  and  he  and  the  Captain  had  filled  up  the  tent  with  cigar  smoke.  &quot;Here's  the  boy  I  had  in  mind  for  you!&quot;  said  Captain  Brewer.  He  intro-  duced  Will  to  the  photographer,  who  was  called  Carnot,  but  Will  immedi-  ately  thought  of  him  as  Frenchy.  &quot;I  know  him,&quot;  said  M.  Carnot.  &quot;I  know  his  goggling  eyes.&quot;  He  barked  a  few  questions  at  Will  in  French,  The  Captain  said  he  knew  French-was  this  true?  Could  he  read?  Was  he  a  disci-  plined  worker?  Were  his  hands  steady?  Was  he  a  Catholic  boy?  Will  answered  slowly  first  in  French,  and  then  again  in  English.  He  knew  his  French  from  a  distant  neighbor  lady  back  in  Onondaga  County,  to  whom  his  motherhad  sent  him  for  lessons  be-  cause  she  was  sure  it  would  civilize  him,  though  his  father  said  it  would  sissify  him.  Of  course  he  could  read;  he  liked  to  think  he  was  as  disciplined  as  any-  body;  his  hands  were  steady.  &quot;I  am  not  a  Catholic,&quot;  he  added  belatedly.  &quot;Excellent,&quot;  said  M.  Carnot.  &quot;I  am  through  with  superstitious  idolaters.  You'll  do.&quot;  Captain  Brewer  clapped  Will  on  the  back.  &quot;Pardon  me,  [REDACTED];  said  Will.  &quot;Has  some  business  been  transacted?&quot;  Some  had.  Will  had  just  changed  hands.  M.  Frenchy  needed  a  new  assis-  tant,  his  last  one  having  been  bayonet-  ted  the  previous  day  by  a  wounded  Reb  when  he  approached,  hesitantly,  to  re-  arrange  the  seemingly  dead  boy's  limbs  intoa  more  dramatic  pose.  Will  would  make  an  ideal  assistant,  the  Captain  was  sure,  because  of  his  French,  and  because  he  was  industrious  and  smart.  Will  had  the  same  feeling  he'd  had  when  he  was  kicked  out  of  the  Tiger  Mess.  He  got  no  certificate  this  time,  but  he  had  the  distinct  impression  that  he  was  being  thrown  out  of  Company  A.  He  wasn't,  though.  Not  precisely.  He  would  still  eat  and  sleep  and  fight  with  his  company,  but  he  was  also  to  serve  as  assistant  and  body-  guard  to  the  extremely  well-  connected  M.  Frenchy,  who  had  letters  from  on  high,  through  Sedgwick  and  McClellan  all  the  way  up  to  the  Secretary  of  War,  giving  him  permission  to  take  pictures  of  the  field.  He  called  himself  an  artist  and  a  scientist.  His  aim,  he  said,  was  to  quantify  and  qualify  the  brutality  of  war.  Packed  bodies  in  a  sunken  road.  Try  as  he  might,  Will  could  not  resolve  them  into  separate  boys.  They  lay  in  a  dead  tangle,  arms  and  legs  thrown  over  one  an-  other.  Will  put  this  picture  high  on  the  north  wall  of  the  house.  WLL  carried  equipment  and  helped  arrange  the  dead.  He  would  look  away  from  their  faces  as  he  moved  them.  Some  were  stiff.  Frenchy  screamed  at  him  when  he  balked  at  forcing  a  fallen  cavalryman's  arm  into  a  more  pleasing  posi-  tion.  Will  broke  the  poor  man's  THE  GLASS  HOUSE  shoulder,  crossing  his  arm  over  his  chest,  and  he  wondered  that  the  whole  Rebel  Army  did  not  come  pouring  down  on  him  for  abusing  its  dead  so.  If  he  was  not  rearranging  the  dead,  he  was  help-  ing  to  bury  them.  Frenchy  cursedthe  burying.  His  precious  dead  were  van-  ishing  into  the  ground.  They  joined  the  lazy  pursuit  that  toddled  after  the  fleeing  Rebels.  As  they  travelled,  Frenchy  taught  him  the  pho-  tographic  process,  screeching  when-  ever  he  wasted  a  plate.  He  spent  hours  in  Frenchy's  cramped  wagon,  mixing  collodion  from  guncotton  and  sulfuric  ether  and  alcohol,  then  coating  the  mix-  ture  onto  glass  plates.  Frenchy  scolded  like  a  harpy,  but  he  also  spoke  generous  praise-his  assistant  was  learning  quickly.  Pressed  for  time,  he  brought  a  plate  back  to  Will  in  the  wagon,  and  let  him  develop  it  while  he  took  another  wet  plate  and  went  to  make  another  picture.  Will  removed  the  plate  from  its  holder.  He  held  it  over  a  pan  and  poured  de-  veloper  over  the  glass.  The  developer  reeked  like  a  cocktail  of  vinegar  and  blood,  and  he  almost  dropped  the  nega-  tive  when  a  violent  sneeze  shook  him.  He  leaned  down  and  squinted  in  the  dim  yellow  light  of  the  lantern.  There  was  the  image  rising  out  of  the  glass,  as  if  up  through  water.  Here  is  a  boy  with  his  legs  impossibly  twisted.  Someone  has  stolen  his  hips  and  replaced  them  with  a  little  stretch  of  earth.  His  hand  is  cuppedbehind  his  ear,  asif  he  were  straining  to  hear  some  news.  This  one  goes  on  the  east  wall,  where  it  will  catch  the  light  of  the  rising  sun.  AF  Fredericksburg,  Frenchy  was  made  busy  by  the  carnage  below  Marye's  [REDACTED].  It  was  December,  and  bitter  cold.  Frenchy  was  lost  in  a  wilderness  of  borrowed  coat-his  own  was  still  wet  from  a  fall  off  a  pontoon  bridge  into  the  Rappahannock.  He  swam  like  an  otter,  and  looked  like  one,  with  his  wet  brown  hair  and  shiny  black  eyes.  With  his  head  in  his  camera,  Frenchy  was  blind  to  danger.  Will  kept  an  eye  out  for  sneaking  Rebels.  A  truce  had  been  called,  to  gather  the  dead  and  wounded,  but  he  did  not  trust  them  to  keep  it.  A  profusion  of  boys  was  strewn  on  the  ground,  none  of  them  closer  than  a  hundred  yards  to  the  stone  wall  against  which  Burnside  had  thrown  them.  &quot;Did  you  ever  think  you'd  be  a  pho-  tographer?&quot;  Frenchy  asked  from  under  the  camera  hood,  saying  the  word  with  great  reverence.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Will.  When  he  was  a  boy,  he  wanted  to  become  a  sailor,  because  he  and  Sam  had  been  great  fans  of  &quot;Typee,&quot;  andhad  imagined  a  scummy  pond  be-  hind  their  house  to  be  the  wide  green  bay  of  Nukuheva.  Then  he  thought  he  would  be  a  doctor,  for  no  good  reason  except  thatto  doctor  was  not  to  farm,  like  his  father.  Now  he  thought  he  might  have  been  growing  up  all  this  time  to  be  a  brick  in  a  wall  of  corpses.  Frenchy  pulled  his  headfrom  the  camera  and  made  a  confession  to  Will,  to  whom  he  was  beginning  to  show  something  like  affection.  It  was  his  hope,  he  said,  to  take  a  picture  of  a  sol-  dier  at  the  precise  moment  of  his  death,  because  he  believed  the  departing  soul,  invisible  to  a  human  eye,  would  be  seen  by  the  camera.  Soon  afterward,  he  found  a  squirmer  on  the  cold  field,  but  by  the  time  he'd  readied  the  camera  the  boy  was  dead.  Will  was  much  in  demand  the  whole  day  through.  Inthe  late  afternoon,  when  the  light  had  grown  too  weak  for  taking  pictures,  he  took  up  a  pick  to  open  the  frozen  ground  for  graves,  and  worked  at  it  till  his  arms  and  shoulders  burned.  There  were  always  more  dead  to  bury,  some  of  them  naked  because  ill-clad  Rebs  had  crept  forth  from  their  lines  to  steal  the  clothes  in  the  night.  When  he  stopped  working,  he  could  barely  raise  his  arms  to  feed  himself.  He  found  Frenchy  ina  hospital  tent,  with  his  camera  set  up  by  the  bedside  of  a  blond-headed  boy  who  looked  for  sure  to  be  agoner.  Will's  hands  were  a  mess  of  blisters.  Frenchy  gave  him  a  plate  to  develop,  but  Will  dropped  it,  which  earned  him  a  cursing  so  thorough  he  had  to  resist  an  urge  to  knock  the  little  man  down.  Frenchy  nearly  got  ejected  from  the  tent,  for  all  that  he  brought  out  his  omnipresent  letters  of  recom-  mendation  and  waved  them  like  a  little  set  of  battle  colors.  He  took  up  his  vigil  again,  and  sent  his  assistant  away.  Will  went  back  to  Company  A.  They'd  been  held  in  reserve  for  most  of  the  previous  day,  having  seen  just  a  smidgen  of  action  when  they  were  called  up  in  support  of  a  battery  below  the  town.  They'd  all  lain  down  on  the  ground  while  shells  burst  above  their  T5  heads,  and  their  only  casualty  was  a  boy  who  was  overcome  with  excitement  and  accidentally  shot  himself  in  the  hand.  Jolly  was  having  his  dinner  with  a  few  other  members  of  the  Leper  Mess.  A  tall,  thin  boy  named  Lewy  Greeley,  who  was  unpopular  on  account  of  his  inces-  sant  proselytizing,  was  lamenting  his  fate.  &quot;This  is  the  worst  regiment  ever,&quot;  he  said,  stabbing  his  beans  with  a  spoon.  &quot;We  see  no  good  action  and  are  over-  run  with  godlessness.  I  think  I  will  go  off  and  join  the  146th.&quot;  He  meant  the  146th  Illinois,  a  regiment  composed  en-  tirely  of  Methodist  ministers.  They  sang  booming  hymns  as  they  loaded,  primed,  and  fired.  God  was  with  them  in  pre-  cisely  the  way  that  he  was  not  with  this  here  assembly  of  lawyers  and  farmers.  &quot;I'll  cut  you  a  new  mouth  to  whine  with,  if  you  don't  shut  up,&quot;  said  Jolly,  who  was  not  known  for  making  idle  threats.  Will  sat  back  on  hisheels,  picked  outhot  beans  with  his  fingers,  and  raised  them  slowly  to  his  mouth.  &quot;Did  you  see  the  sky  last  night,  Tiny?&quot;  Jolly  asked  him.  &quot;I  did,&quot;  he  said.  There  had  been  a  fan-  tastic  display.  The  northern  lights  had  come  south  to  blaze  in  the  sky  above  the  Union  right.  Will  had  rolled  onto  his  back  to  watch,  holding  to  his  eye  a  cracked  lens  pilfered  from  the  wagon,  thinking  it  would  be  fine  to  take  a  pic-  ture  of  such  a  thing  as  that  festive  sky.  &quot;Do  you  suppose  it  was  a  sign?  Do  you  suppose  it  was  God  waving  his  hanky  for  the  Rebs?  Perhaps  it  is  our  purpose  to  lose.&quot;  &quot;We  were  good  Christians  today,  then,&quot;  said  Will.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Lewy  Greeley.  &quot;Not  ever.&quot;  A  catalogue  of  expressions-fear,  sadness,  rage,  surprise,  tenderness,  even  what  ap-  pears  to  be  a  broad  smile,  this  last  on  a  head  attached  by  strings  to  its  body.  A  catalogue  of  parts-arms  and  legs,  trunks  and  belles,  ears  and  noses,  a  flat  section  of  skull  in  the  grass.  The  hair  is  still  attached,  but  the  rest  of  the  body  is  nowhere  to  be  seen.  It  might  be  a  muskrat,  crouched  there.  The  whole  west  wall  is  a  catalogue  of  parts  and  faces.  N  May  of  '63,  Will  drifted  across  the  Rappahannock  with  a  few  other  members  of  Company  A.  Lewy  Gree-  ley  was  there,  and  so  was  Jolly.  It  was  just  before  dawn.  They  were  going  over  to  clear  out  some  intractable  sharp-    shooters,  who  were  making  it  impossi-  ble  to  lay  down  pontoons  for  a  bridge.  Lewy  Greeley  was  twitching  with  ex-  citement.  Months  of  idleness  in  winter  camp  had  made  him  a  nervous  creature.  A  few  times,  at  night  on  picket  duty,  he  had  fired  blindly  at  the  enemy  lines.  Now  he  could  barely  contain  himself.  Inhospitable  Rebs  were  firing  at  them  already,  though  their  visit  was  supposed  to  be  a  surprise.  Lewy  kept  trying  to  stand  up  in  the  boat.  A  wag  in  a  neigh-  boring  boat  had  stood  up  and  shaken  his  ass  at  the  Rebs,  then  crouched  down  again  without  taking  a  hit.  &quot;Let  go,  you  big  ape!&quot;  Lewy  said  to  Will,  tearing  his  sleeve  free  of  Will's  fingers.  &quot;Stay  down,  Lewy,&quot;  said  Jolly.  &quot;It's  positively  unhealthy  up  there.&quot;  Lewy  paid  him  no  mind.  He  stood  up  in  the  boat  and  said,  &quot;Look  at  me!  I  am  a  marine!&quot;  A  bullet  took  him  in  the  head.  He  fell  down  and  was  still,  but  his  blood  came  out  furiously  from  him,  and  pooled  around  their  knees.  &quot;Ah,  Lewy,&quot;  said  Jolly.  &quot;You  were  too  much  of  a  bother  for  this  world.&quot;  The  Rebs  offered  up  a  few  more  vol-  leys,  but  left  the  bank  with  hardly  any  fight  at  all.  Will  stood  by  a  tree,  osten-  sibly  guarding  the  engineers  as  they  worked,  but  he  was  really  looking  at  Lewy's  body,  which  had  been  wrapped  up  in  a  coat  and  laid  upon  the  bank.  He  wished  he  had  a  picture  ofhim,  because  he  had  discovered  he  could  better  em-  pathize  with  a  picture  of  a  dead  boy  than  with  the  dead  boy  himself.  If  he  had  a  picture  he  might  have  wondered  if  Lewy,  in  the  half-second  during  which  he  took  his  bullet,  and  knew  that  he  would  die,  thought  of  his  Methodist  regiment,  and  hoped  to  join  it  in  Heaven,  though  he  could  not  join  it  on  earth.  If  he  could  have  chosen  a  word  and  spoken  it  as  he  died,  what  would  it  have  been?  With  a  picture,  Will  might  have  imagined  how  it  felt  to  be  wounded  like  Lewy;  he  might  have  held  a  hand  up  to  touch  his  own  pulse  beating  in  his  temple.  As  it  was,  he  was  filled  with  a  stony,  gray  feel-  ing,  and  found  he  was  already  forgetting  what  Lewy  looked  like.  Lewy  Greeley,  carefully  arranged.  He  looks  noble  in  a  way  he  never  did  in  life.  He  hes  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  10,  2000  with  his  arms  folded  over  his  chest,  his  pale  face  serene  and  pretty,  in  a  patch  of  morning  sunlight.  He  might  be  dreaming.  Will  put  him  on  the  north  wall,  with  all  the  rest  of  the  boys  from  Company  A.  “I’VE  failed!&quot;  Frenchy  said,  sitting  by  his  wagon  a  few  days  after  Lewy's  death,  after  Company  A  and  the  rest  of  the  Army  of  the  Potomac  had  scurried  back  over  the  Rappahannock  in  the  wake  of  the  great  disaster  at  Chan-  cellorsville.  Frenchy  had  been  cross  because  the  wounded,  dying,  and  dead  had  been  left  on  the  other  side  of  the  river  where  he  could  not  photo-  graph  them.  He  had  retreated  to  a  hospital  tent  and  taken  up  a  post  next  toa  boy  who  was  clinging  to  life,  despite  the  am-  putation  of  his  legs  and  re-  peated  assaults  by  the  bloody  flux.  In  his  delifium,  he  thought  Frenchy  was  his  mother.  Pre-  viously,  Frenchy  had  wandered  away  for  food  or  water  or  fallen  asleep  at  the  critical  moment,  but  this  boy  wailed  piteously  if  he  left  his  side,  so  he  was  there  for  the  death.  &quot;Miserable,  hideous  failure!&quot;  he  said.  It  was  a  very  pleasant  night,  and  he'd  come  stomping  through  the  moonlight  to  where  Will  was  sitting  by  the  wagon,  thinking  back  to  the  other  side  of  the  river.  The  beautiful  moonlight  had  set-  tled  over  everything  there,  though  it  seemed  to  Will  that  it  should  recoil  from  boys  whose  heads  decided  to  go  every  which  way  at  once,  from  open  bellies  and  naked  bones.  Frenchy  cast  the  negatives  on  the  ground  at  Will's  feet,  breaking  a  plate  in  half.  Will  took  them  up  one  by  oneand  held  them  to  the  moon:  there  was  the  boy,  his  terrible  wounds  preserved  for-  ever.  Will  found  himself  wondering  if  it  was  not  the  opposite  of  mercy  to  have  preserved  them  so.  The  boy  in  these  pictures  would  always  be  in  pain.  His  face  was  a  blur-he  seemed  to  have  a  multiplicity  of  mouths,  all  of  them  call-  ing  for  his  mother.  But  in  the  last  pic-  ture,  the  broken  one,  he  was  still.  &quot;It  was  just  as  he  went,&quot;  said  Frenchy.  &quot;I  know  that  it  was,  but  there  is  no  exhalation,     THE  GLASS  HOUSE  there  is  nothing  but  air  about  him.&quot;  Will  left  Frenchy  to  his  misery,  and  walked  off  with  the  broken  pieces  of  the  last  plate.  He  wandered  aimlessly  through  the  camp  and  out  of  it,  think-  ing  that  he  held  in  his  hands  proof  of  the  nonexistence  of  souls.  He  thought  of  Sam,  of  how  he  had  been  friendly  when  they  were  small,  aside  from  the  occasional  beating  up,  and  how  he  had  been  distant  when  they  were  older,  how  they  had  fallen  out  with  each  otherover  something  unspoken  and  unknown,  and  how  there  was  now  no  hope  of  reconcil-  iation  between  the  living  and  the  dead.  He  sat  down  on  the  ground,  hung  his  head,  and  wept  as  only  a  boy  of  his  size  could  weep,  great  racking  sobs,  his  chest  heaving  with  the  strength  of  five  lesser  chests.  It  made  him  afraid  to  think  that  everything  he  was  could  vanish  into  an  abyss  when  he  took,  as  he  felt  he  must,  his  mortal  wound.  And  it  made  him  unbearably  sad  to  think  how  everything  Sam  was  had  simply  ended.  He  had  wandered  intoa  graveyard  full  of  Union  dead.  He'd  buried  some  of  them  himself  the  previous  winter.  After  he'd  quieted  down,  he  sat  there  awhile,  and  thought  he  must  have  fallen  asleep,  because  he  was  sure  he  was  dreaming  when  seven  gaily  dressed  women  drifted  into  the  graveyard.  Four  carried  lanterns,  which  they  set  down  in  a  great  square  pattern.  They  put  their  heads  together  and  whispered,  and  seemed  to  be  waiting  for  something.  In  a  while,  a  little  man  came  tiptocing  out  of  the  darkness.  He  bowed  to  them  and  took  a  fiddle  from  a  case,  then  started  to  play  a  jig.  The  ladies  began  a  sprightly  dance  upon  the  graves  of  the  Union  dead.  They  didnot  see  Will  in  his  dark  uniform.  They  did  not  see  how,  with  their  dancing,  they  turned  his  sadness  to  rage.  The  piece  of  plate,  when  it  came  flying  out  of  the  darkness,  must  have  seemed  like  a  judgment  from  whatever  god  guards  the  dignity  of  the  dead.  It  struck  a  woman  in  the  hip-in  her  petticoats  or  her  flesh,  Will  could  not  be  sure.  She  shrieked  and  the  ladies  dispersed,  leaving  their  lanterns  behind.  A  boy  with  a  hole  where  his  chest  ought  to  be.  He  is  arranged  on  his  side.  His  big,  serious  eyes  look  directly  at  the  camera.  His  left  hand  is  stretched  out,  open  asif  in  supplication,  asif  tosay,  &quot;Give  it  back.&quot;  He  is  the  fourth  image  from  the  right,  in  the  second  row  from  the  bottom,  on  the  south  wall.  “MY  mama  says  I  should  remember  that  I  am  fighting  to  preserve  the  best  government  on  earth,&quot;  Jolly  said.  It  was  dinnertime  on  the  evening  of  July  2nd,  the  second  day  at  Gettys-  burg.  The  Sixth  Onondaga  had  taken  up  position  too  late,  again,  to  have  seen  action.  Other  regiments  made  fun  of  them,  saying  their  ugly  faces  scared  away  the  elephant.  Sometimes  Will  thought  it  must  be  his  mother's  doing,  this  safety.  Her  towering  grief  would  not  allow  him  to  be  hurt-it  was  of  such  a  nature  that  even  fate  must  be  afraid  of  it.  &quot;But  my  father,  he  says  we  must  help  the  slaves,  even  if  the  Union  goes  all  to  smash.&quot;  Jolly  held  up  two  let-  ters,  one  from  his  mother  and  one  from  his  father,  in  either  hand.  &quot;What  do  you  think?&quot;  he  asked  Will.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said.  He  took  the  letters  from  Jolly  and  put  them  behind  his  back,  passing  them  from  hand  to  hand  before  he  told  Jolly  to  pick  one.  Jolly  chose  the  left  hand,  and  Will  gave  him  back  the  letter.  Jolly  looked  at  it,  rubbing  his  eyes  wearily.  &quot;Well?&quot;  said  Will.  &quot;Well,  I  am  fighting  for  my  father's  cause,&quot;  said  Jolly.  They  sat  alone  for  a  while,  before  they  started  making  their  dinner,  a  beef  stew.  Jolly  had  taken  off  his  shirt  and  rolled  up  the  sleeves  of  his  long  johns,  because  of  the  heat.  They  were  the  only  two  members  of  the  Leper  Mess  left,  the  others  having  died  or  deserted  or  been  absorbed  into  more  respectable  associations.  They  spent  a  little  while  crushing  hardtack  for  their  stew.  &quot;God  save  me  from  this  cracker,&quot;  Jolly  said,  struggling  to  break  it.  Will  crushed  his  easily  intoa  fine  powder,  and  made  dumplings  with  water  from  his  canteen.  These  he  set  gingerly  into  the  stew,  amid  pieces  of  beef  and  veg-  etables.  Jolly  leaned  over  the  pot  to  pour  in  a  cup  of  coffee,  and  then  they  took  turns  sprinkling  in  crushed  cracker  to  TT  thicken  the  stew.  &quot;Oh,  it  will  be  deli-  cious!&quot;  said  Jolly,  but  when  it  came  time  to  eat  he  said  he  was  not  hungry,  and  gave  his  portion  to  Will.  They  lay  down  in  their  dog  tent,  not  sleeping,  though  both  were  exhausted  from  their  recent  march-they'd  gone  twenty  miles  a  day  for  three  days.  They  were  after  sprightly  old  Lee  again,  and  the  long,  long  march  had  made  Will  think  they  must  be  chasing  him  this  time  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  think  sometimes  it  might  not  be  real,&quot;  said  Jolly.  Will's  guts  were  making  a  racket,  rejoicing  over  the  stew,  he  figured.  &quot;When  I  was  a  boy,  my  mother  told  me  the  whole  world  was  just  the  dream  of  a  sleeping  bear,  and  that  we  had  to  be  careful  not  to  be  too  horrible  in  our  behavior  toward  one  an-  other,  because  we  might  shock  the  bear  into  wakefulness,  and  then  we  would  be  no  more.  That  was  blasphemy.  But  couldn't  a  war  be  God's  conscience  fret-  ting  with  itself?  Maybe  he  has  put  him-  self  down  for  a  nap,  but  his  digestion  is  poor,  and  it  has  troubled  his  dream.  All  our  history  might  be  no  longer  than  such  a  nap,  don't  you  think?  His  trou-  bled  conscience  has  dreamed  a  war.  I  worry,  anyhow,  that  we  will  wake  him.&quot;  Will  said  nothing.  Jolly  took  his  hand  and  put  it  over  his  chest.  His  heart  was  fluttering.  &quot;Is  it  beating?&quot;  Jolly  asked  him.  &quot;Am  I  alive?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Will,  and  took  his  hand  away.  &quot;Sometimes  I  wonder.&quot;  The  negative  images  look  like  portraits  of  ghosts.  They  are  pale  where  living  people  are  dark,  dark  where  the  living  are  pale.  When  the  sun  passes  through  the  glass  neg-  atives,  it  is  like  a  visitation  from  beyond,  the  way  they  shimmer  and  glow.  At  night,  when  he  goes  into  the  unfinished  house  with  a  lantern,  the  backing  darkness  makes  ambrotypes  of  the  images,  and  the  dead  take  on  the  tones  and  shades  of  the  living.  It  makes  sense  to  him  that  it  should  be  so,  that  the  dead  should  be  more  solid,  should  look  more  real  at  night,  and  that  the  day  should  make  ghosts  of  them.  RENCHY  had  acquired  new  hope.  He  had  determined  that  he'd  failed  to  capture  the  boy's  departing  soul  be-  cause  his  medium  was  insensitive.  He  needed  a  better  collodion-hadn't  Fox  Talbot's  calotype  process  been  similarly  insensitive,  hadn't  it  also  been  defective?  78  He'd  been  gone  for  two  weeks  in  June,  consulting  with  a  learned  gentleman  in  New  York.  When  he  returned,  he  had  a  new  formula.  It  was  the  same  as  the  old  one,  except  that  he  added  three  drops  of  a  liquid  from  a  mysterious-looking  blue  bottle.  The  liquid  looked  and  smelled  like  whiskey,  and  Will  was  tempted  to  smash  the  bottle.  Will  and  Jolly  got  separated  in  the  last  day's  fighting  at  [REDACTED],  of  which  the  Sixth  Onondaga  had  more  than  its  fair  share.  Will  was  called  away  by  Frenchy,  whose  mule  had  died  in  the  overshots  of  the  Rebel  artillery.  Will  himself  pulled  the  wagon  to  safety,  while  Frenchy  screeched  at  him  to  hurry.  Ambulances  and  sutler's  tents  were  meeting  their  end  all  around  him.  He  and  Frenchy  fled  down  the  Balti-  more  Pike  until  they  came  to  a  place  of  comparative  safety,  where  they  waited  amid  a  crowd  of  other  fugitives.  Frenchy's  powerful  letters  of  recommendation  helped  him  to  appropriate  a  new  mule.  By  the  time  Will  got  back  to  the  Sixth's  position  at  Culp's  Hill,  it  was  almost  night.  He  spent  the  evening  looking  fruitlessly  for  Jolly.  On  the  Fourth  of  July,  he  ventured  out  into  the  rain  with  Frenchy.  For  the  first  time,  he  saw  many  boys  from  the  Sixth  dead  on  the  field.  There  was  a  boy,  one  of  the  first  he'd  met,  who,  as  they  waited  in  the  train  to  leave  Syra-  cuse,  had  asked  Will  to  do  him  a  favor.  &quot;Hey,  Goliath,&quot;  he'd  said,  &quot;give  me  a  boost.&quot;  Will  had  hoisted  him  through  the  window,  thinking  for  a  moment  he'd  had  a  last-minute  change  of  heart  and  was  going  to  desert.  But  all  he  wanted  was  kisses.  There  were  women  clustered  around  the  train,  come  to  bid  goodbye  to  the  boys  of  Onondaga  County.  Will  held  the  fellow  by  his  boots  as  he  puck-  ered  his  lips  up  and  meshed  them  wetly  with  the  wanton  lips  of  three,  five,  and  then  ten  different  women.  Will  had  dropped  him  on  his  head,  and  lost  his  first  friend  in  the  regiment.  He  was  a  little  dark  fellow,  whose  lips  were  wide  and  thick.  On  reflection,  Will  under-  stood  how  he  might  feel  pressed  to  kiss  excessively  with  them.  Now  they  were  gone,  torn  awayby  a  bullet  or  a  frag-  ment  of  shell.  Frenchy  had  just  scolded  Will  for  moving  a  pile  of  dead  into  convincing  &quot;as  they  fell&quot;  positions-he  was  sup-  posed  to  be  looking  for  the  dying,  not  playing  with  the  dead-when  Will  un-  covered  a  living  Reb.  He  opened  his  gray  eyes  and  began  to  squall  when  Will  grabbed  his  arm.  &quot;Don't  bury  me!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  ain't  dead,  you  son  of  a  bitch!&quot;  It  was  a  marvel,  though,  that  he  was  alive.  His  belly  had  been  opened,  and  his  guts  were  spilling  from  the  wound.  &quot;Go  away,&quot;  he  said  to  Will,  once  it  became  clear  to  him  that  Will  was  not  going  to  bury  him.  &quot;Ain't  it  enough  that  you  killed  me?  Why  don't  you  leave  me  in  peace?  My  granny  is  coming  up  to  get  me.  She'll  be  here  soon.  She  doesn't  care  for  greasy  Yanks,  and  one  who  shines  and  stinks  like  you  would  offend  her.&quot;  Just  briefly,  Will  considered  piling  the  bodies  back  on  top  of  him.  &quot;T'll  take  you  to  the  doctors,&quot;  Will  said.  There  was  a  hospital  tent  several  hundred  yards  away.  &quot;No,&quot;  said  the  Reb.  Frenchy  came  waddling  up  excitedly.  &quot;You  beautiful  boy!&quot;  he  said  to  the  Reb.  &quot;Leave  me  be,&quot;  the  boy  said.  But  they  wouldn't.  Will  cleared  away  the  bodies  from  around  the  boy  and  Frenchy  gave  him  sips  of  whiskey  from  a  flask.  While  Frenchy  set  up  his  camera,  the  boy  seemed  to  fall  asleep,  so  Will  de-  cided  then  to  pick  him  up  and  carry  him  to  the  hospital  tent.  The  boy  woke  and  began  to  scream  horribly,  and  Frenchy  screamed  horribly,  too.  Will  hurried  off,  ignoring  Frenchy's  curses.  The  boy  would  not  stop  calling  him  a  dirty  Yank.  Will  held  him  tight,  lest  something  vital  spill  out  and  drag  along  -EAMON  GRENNAN  the  ground.  But  by  the  time  he  got  to  the  hospital  the  boy  was  silent  and  dead.  Will  put  him  down  on  a  door  set  on  two  sawhorses,  which  had  lately  served  as  a  surgery  table.  Had  he  felt  anything  leave  the  body  as  he  walked?  Had  a  spirit  passed  through  him?  It  would  have  felt  like  a  chill,  he  was  sure.  But  he  had  felt  nothing.  He  sat  there  for  a  long  while,  not  wanting  anymore  to  assist  Frenchy  in  an  enterprise  that  suddenly  seemed  stupid  and  vile  and  immensely  rude.  Frenchy  was  dead  when  Will  went  back  for  him,  shot  through  the  chest  as  he  was  taking  a  picture.  Jolly  was  his  subject,  dead  now,  too,  though  Will  was  certain  that  he  had  been  mostly  alive  for  his  portrait.  He  had  no  immediately  vis-  ible  wound  on  him.  Will  was  struck  by  the  thought  that  Jolly  must  have  died  of  sadness  and  uncertainty,  but  when  he  looked  closer  he  could  see  that  he'd  been  shot  in  the  thigh.  He'd  crossed  his  legs  demurely,  as  if  to  hidethe  wound.  His  brow,  when  Will  laid  his  hand  on  it,  was  still  warm,  but  even  as  he  knelt  there  it  grew  cold.  Will  closed  his  eyes  and  waited  for  someone  to  shoot  him.  He  wanted  to  say  something  but  seemed  to  have  forgotten,  for  the  moment,  every  word  he  ever  knew.  His  mother  in-  truded  into  his  mind  then.  She  dragged  her  green  sofa  onto  the  battlefield  and  reclined  upon  it.  She  gathered  Jolly  into  her  lap  and  cried  out,  &quot;Where  isit  writ-  ten  that  a  woman  has  got  to  bear  such  a  load  of  heartache?&quot;  The  camera  had  fallen  over,  but  the  THE  GLASS  HOUSE  plate  inside  was  whole  and  unexposed.  With  the  plate  closed  up  in  a  box,  Will  walked  to  where  the  new  mule  had  taken  the  wagon,  a  few  hundred  yards  away.  Under  the  yellow  light,  he  poured  the  developer  over  the  plate  and  waited  for  the  image.  There  is  Jolly's  long  face,  his  lips  turned  down  in  a  frown.  His  eyes  are  open.  His  head  is  resting  on  his  arm.  He  is  pointing  at  nothing.  He  has  wrapped  his  mouth  around  a  piece  of  grass.  Something  is  rising  from  him.  It  looks  like  a  bit  of  dark  mist  in  the  shape  of  a  wing.  IN  the  Wilderness,  and  at  Spotsylva-  nia,  at  Cold  Harbor  and  Petersburg,  the  Sixth  saw  the  elephant  abundantly,  and  it  trampled  them.  Frenchy  would  have  had  many  opportunities  to  take  his  world-changing  picture.  Brave  or  fool-  ish  behavior  got  Will  back  into  the  Tiger  Mess-he  saved  some  lives  and  became  better  liked.  He  wanted  friends,  all  of  a  sudden,  as  immediately  and  as  intensely  as  he  had  not  wanted  them  before.  He  would  still  smash  your  whis-  key,  but  that  became  something  they  could  overlook  in  the  dwindling  frater-  nity  of  Company  A.  The  boys  got  into  the  habit  of  writing  their  names  and  the  addresses  of  their  families  on  slips  of  paper,  which  they  pinned  to  their  shirts  before  they  went  into  battle.  Will  had  a  slip  pinned  to  his  shirt,  but  it  was  not  his  parents'  address  he'd  written  down-  he  didn't  want  even  his  dead  body  to  go  back  home.  Instead,  he'd  written,  &quot;Sam,  here  I  come.&quot;  He  had  many  near-misses.  It  seemed  that  bullets  wanted  to  touch  him.  He  got  grazed  on  his  arms  and  legs,  along  his  scalp.  He  lost  an  earlobe.  But  he  never  got  a  serious  wound,  though  he  felt  at  last  that  he  was  ready  for  one.  Jolly's  picture,  which  he  kept  in  his  knapsack  by  day  and  under  his  head  at  night,  cheered  him.  Such  a  spirit  shape  might  rise  from  him,  when  his  bullet  finally  found  him.  Such  a  spirit  shape  as  rose  from  Jolly  might  have  risen  from  Sam,  might  abide  in  some  place  free  from  the  heavy  cares  of  the  war  and  the  world.  GENEROUS  Frenchy  had  made  up  a  sort  of  will,  which  he  would  have  changed,  no  doubt,  had  he  lived  after  Will  betrayed  him  at  [REDACTED].  He'd  left  instructions  with  Captain  Brewer.  In  the  event  of  his  death,  his  assistant  was  to  have  his  wagon  and  all  it  con-  tained,  as  well  as  a  big  brass  key,  with  an  address.  Will  sold  the  wagon.  He  kept  only  the  key  and  Jolly's  negative.  After  the  war  he  went  to  [REDACTED],  where  his  key  opened  up  a  musty  pho-  tography  studio  on  the  fourth  floor  of  a  building  on  Fulton  Street.  The  rent,  he  discovered,  was  paid  through  the  next  two  years.  He  walked  among  the  props-  marble  columns,  rich  draperies,  painted  backgrounds  depicting  mountains  or  the  sea.  In  a  dark  corner,  beneath  a  gi-  gantic  rubber  blanket,  he  found  neat  tall  stacks  of  negatives,  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  them,  all  taken  during  the  war,  some  of  which  he'd  developed  himself.  Frenchy  had  been  sending  them  back  to  this  place.  He  built  the  house  on  the  roof.  There  was  a  derelict  greenhouse  up  there,  whose  clear  glass  panels  he  tore  out  and  replaced  with  the  boys  by  the  church,  the  boy  with  no  hips,  the  cata-  logues.  The  hundreds  of  negatives  be-  came  four  walls  and  a  roof.  Finally,  there  was  Jolly's  picture-it  went  above  the  door,  in  what  Will  thought  must  be  the  position  of  honor.  He  put  it  in  place,  the  last  panel,  and  the  house  was  finished.  It  still  lacked  an  hour  till  dawn.  He  sat  inside  without  a  light.  What  would  happen  when  the  sun  came  to  shine  down  on  the  finished  house?  Would  the  white  ghosts  assault  him?  Would  the  mist  that  might  be  Jolly's  spirit  depart  from  the  plate  and  settle  over  him  like  manna?  Maybe  spirits  would  crowd  the  house,  and  maybe  Sam  would  be  among  them.  Maybe  Will  would  fall  asleep  under  their  im-  ages  and  dream  their  vanished  lives.  Maybe  nothing  would  happen.  Dawn  was  in  the  sky,  now.  The  sun  was  just  starting  to  peep  over  a  neighboring  build-  ing.  He  closed  his  eyes  and  he  waited. 