   60  FICTION     STUART  BY  ZADIE  SMITH  He  hes  like  an  eyewitness.&quot;  saying.  HIS  is  the  truth,  whichever  way  I  you  look  at  it.  There  are  these  two  Greek  guys.  One  is  as  huge  as  hell,  with  a  melon  for  a  face:  round,  yellowish,  moist,  pitted  with  black-  headed  acne-and  yet  genial,  all  the  same.  It  isn't  exactly  the  kind  of  face  the  Italians  call  simpatico,  but  it's  without  malice,  the  way  a  melon  is  without  mal-  ice.  It  is  generous  just  because  itis  neu-  tral,  and  neutral  is  a  sight  to  behold  in  certain  quarters  of  the  city  where  men  wear  their  features  aggressively,  like  na-  tional  flags.  Comparatively  speaking,  this  guy  looks  fine-despite  a  thick  neck  with  a  circumference  beyond  your  handspan,  beaded  with  sweat  like  the  legendary  boxers'.  It  is  a  triumph  on  his  part  not  to  look  cruel.  But  then  maybe  he's  just  not  rich  enough  to  do  cruel.  Maybe  cruel  takes  more  money.  As  it  is,  he  wears  an  XXL  blue  shirt  of  that  cheap  material  that  isn't  really  silk  but  reflects  light  and  looks  fancy-though  what  the  label  doesn't  tell  you  is  that  it  tends  to  be  less  subtle  about  body  excre-  tions.  You'd  think  it  must  be  worth  a  little  more  of  anybody's  money  to  avoid  the  battalion  of  sweat  ad-  vancing  from  the  armpits,  the  front-line  grime  on  collars,  on  cuffs.  But  no.  He  chooses  this  cheap  pseudo  silk.  He  doesn't  do  himself  any  favors,  ei-  ther,  by  tucking  it  all  into  some  tight,  heavy-looking  jeans.  It  is  clear  that  this  guy  has  a  hardtimewith  clothes  in  general;  buying  them,  getting  into  them,  |  getting  out  of  them.  Noth-  ing  quite  fits.  Even  his  apron  looks  stretched  to  its  limits,  the  strings  bur-  rowed  deep  in  his  flanks,  subsumed  by  the  overhang.  The  apron  itself  decorates  his  belly  with  a  colored  sketch  of  five  famous  Greek  things:  the  Acropolis,  a  kabob,  Socrates,  Zeus,  and,  finally,  defi-  antly,  the  Elgin  marbles.  And  he's  got  gold  on  his  fingers:  a  large  chunk  of  a  ring  stamped  with  a  centaur,  and  an  Irish  claddagh  ring-two  spindly  femi-  nine  hands  clasped  around  his  own  hairy  middle  digit.  For  somebody  who  is  preparing  food  for  the  public,  his  nails  leave  a  lot  to  be  desired.  The  other  guy,  his  partner,  is  about  a  foot  shorter  but  just  as  wide,  and  he's  mean-looking,  which  can  often  be  a  mere  accident  of  physiognomy  but  other  times  proves  to  be  right  on  the  money.  He  is  dressed  roughly  the  same,  except  his  apron  claims  that  &quot;Greek  Men  Do  It  Better,&quot;  and  he  is  sufficiently     bull-browed  and  rivet-jawed  to  pull  that  sort  of  thing  off.  The  two  of  them  work  a  hot-dog  stall  with  no  name  that  you'd  notice.  The  griddle  is  split  among  regular  hot  dogs,  large  hot  dogs,  and  hamburgers.  The  onions  are  fried  in  a  two-inch  groove  that  runs  horizontal  along  the  front.  The  big  melon-faced  guy  flips  the  burgers  or  turns  the  hot  dogs,  fries  and  refries  the  onions.  The  mono-browed  mean-looking  short  guy  scrapes  the  hot  fat  from  one  end  of  the  griddle  to  the  other  with  anegg  slice,  puts  the  meat  in  its  respective  bun,  and  squeezes  the  sauce  bottles.  Who-  ever  has  a  hand  free  deals  with  the  money.  Wipes  one  hand  on  the  corner  of  his  apron,  deals  with  the  money.  Exchanges  coins,  folds  notes,  opens  and  closes  the  cashbox-all  with  one  hand.  You  can't  get  rich  with  this  kind  of  enterprise,  but  Friday  nights  and  school  holidays  keepyour  head  above  water.  Everything  runs  pretty  smoothly.  Organized.  Efficient.  That'sthe  only  way  to  make  it  in  this  country.  And  you  don't  need  to  tell  these  guys  that.  There  is  a  short  red  plastic  tub  on  each  side  of  their  stand.  The  one  on  the  right-their  right-is  for  rubbish;  the  one  on  the  left  for  napkins.  At  about  two  o'clock,  three  white  boys  come  into  view.  Fourteen,  maybe  fif-  teen  years  old.  The  small  onemight  be  thirteen.  It's  hard  to  tell  from  this  angle;  none  of  them  can  call  puberty  an  old  friend,  a  force  of  good  firmly  on  their  side.  They  have  baby-  blond  womanish  sideburns  on  their  faces;  not  even  sideburns,  wisps  of  hair  made  darker  and  more  substantial  by  hair  prod-  ucts  and-who  knows?-  maybe  toothpaste.  They  have  man-sized  hands  sprouting  from  elongated,  spindly  limbs  like  the  ex-  tremities  of  flamingos,  and  their  feet  are  so  huge  they  might  be  prehensile;  these  kids  might  have  just  «  swung  into  town.  There's  2  nothing  in  the  backside  £  of  their  immense,  baggy  9  jeans,  no  backside  to  speak   of,  just  air,  and  possibly  this  is  an  evolutionary  development,  for  they  are  rarely  to  be  found  sitting  down;  they  are  always  in  a  pack  and  on  the  move-they  need  backsides  the  way  the  rest  of  us  need  tails.  Likelihood  is  they  didn't  pass  an  exam  among  them  this  summer,  but  their  bodies  are  clever  and  have  been  adapting  from  the  in-  side,  silently,  almost  imperceptibly  at  first,  confounding  parents  and  politi-  cians.  These  are  not  the  bodies  of  boys  a  hundred  years  ago,  or  even  thirty  years  ago.  These  boys  are  new.  They  wear  a  yellow  shirt,  a  pink  shirt,  and  a  blue  shirt,  respectively,  and  this  is  how  they  will  have  to  be  identified,  because  their  shoes  (white  trainers)  and  haircuts  (short,  greased,  quiffed)  are  uniform;  each  has  a  can  of  beer  lolling  in  his  Mickey  Mouse  mitt,  and  two  of  them  are  the  same  coloring  and  height.  They  don't  address  each  other  by  name.  They  know  each  other  too  well.  &quot;Hot  dog,  mate,&quot;  says  the  yellow  shirt,  and  the  smaller  Greek  takes  one  out  and  throws  it  on  the  griddle  with-  out  a  word.  At  some  stands  you're  asked  for  the  money  first.  Other  stands  want  the  money  at  the  same  time  the  hot  dog's  picked  up.  If  they  believe  in  build-  ing  trust  they  might  ask  for  the  money  after  the  hot  dog  is  across  the  counter.  These  two  particular  Greeks  seem  to  play  it  by  ear,  depending  on  how  they  feel  about  the  customer.  There  is  good  feeling,  for  now.  They  don't  mention  money  yet.  The  pink  shirt  says,  'Three  hot  dogs,  mate.  Three,  yeah?  Quick  as  you  can,  [REDACTED];  He  looks  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;Before  they  fucking  catch  up  with  us,  eh?&quot;  he  says  to  his  friends,  laughing.  They  all  laugh.  &quot;Nice  day  for  it,  eh?&quot;  says  the  yellow  shirt,  motioning  to  the  sun,  Mediter-  ranean  in  September.  The  big  Greek  smiles  and  nods.  &quot;Indian  summer,&quot;  he  replies.  He  tears  open  the  plastic  bag  where  the  meat  is  kept.  Two  hot  dogs  sidle  up  to  the  first.  Then  a  group  of  little  girls,  none  older  than  nine,  comes  round  the  cor-  ner,  indeterminable  in  number  because  they  move  so  quickly  toward  these  older  boys,  pull  at  their  legs,  crowd  round  them,  and  begin  twittering  all  at  once.     ZADIESMITH  Most  of  them  are  black,  with  long  eye-  lashes  and  complicated  hair.  They  all  want  hot  dogs.  They  all  want  the  older  boys  to  buy  them  hot  dogs.  &quot;School  holiday,  eh?&quot;  says  the  bigger  Greek,  sympathizing.  &quot;You  got  to  keep  an  eye  on  them?&quot;  The  pink  shirt,  eyelids  not  under  his  control,  drunk  in  the  afternoon,  nods  in  the  direction  of  the  housing  estate  on  the  horizon,  a  long  wide  tetrahedron  that  declines  in  stages,  balcony  under  balcony,  ina  slope  like  a  giant  staircase.  This  is  where  they  come  from.  &quot;Mate,  they  just  fo//ow  us,&quot;  he  says,  grinning.  &quot;For  fuck  sake.  I  fuckin'  told  ya,  didn't  I?&quot;  he  says  irritably  to  a  small  white  girl,  a  girl  with  similar  watery  green  eyes,  possibly  his  sister.  'Take  this  lot  with  you  and  go  and  find  something  todo.  No,  I  ain't  buyin'  you  nuffink.  Get  out  of  it.&quot;  But  they  won't  go  and  he  gets  into  a  debate  with  them,  holding  his  head  with  one  hand,  his  beer  with  the  other.  He's  trying  to  explain.  Meanwhile,  his  friends  look  sheepish,  swig  from  their  cans,  kicking  their  feet  against  the  curb.  &quot;Fuckin'  hell,  man,&quot;  says  the  yellow  shirt.  &quot;I  can't  deal  wiv  this.  We  shouldn'ta  come  for  hot  dogs.  Should've  gone  straight  to  the  fucking  pub,  innit?  They  can't  follow  us  in  there.  I  can't  take  this,  man.  Just  gonna...yeah?&quot;  He  gestures  round  the  next  corner,  away  from  the  girls.  &quot;Yeah?&quot;  The  pink  shirt  is  down  at  the  girls'  level,  crouching,  not  really  listening.  And  then  there  is  the  street  noise  that  swallows  certain  words,  stealing  away  dialogue,  filing  it  between  car  exhausts  and  police  sirens.  So  his  friends  slink  off  without  him.  Maybe  for  a  smoke.  Maybe  for  more  beer.  They  move  into  the  city,  merge  with  it,  casually,  the  way  young  men  can-there  is  no  suggestion  that  they  won't  come  back  or  that  they  will  or  how  long  they  might  be.  No  one  notices  them  leaving  until  they  are  gone.  The  big  melon-faced  guy  is  scrap-  ing  some  onions  up  from  the  groove  and  turning  the  three  hot  dogs.  His  partner,  head  down,  splits  open  three  rolls  and  now  proceeds  to  brown  them.  The  pink  shirt  is  busy  forming  a  com-  promise  out  of  some  bubble  gum  he  finds  in  his  pocket.  He  bribes  the  girls  with  the  pack  and  watches  them  scoot  off.  &quot;And  don't  come  back,&quot;  he  shouts  after  them,  but  with  a  smile  in  his  voice.  The  girls  are  so  fast  and  loose-limbed  they  hit  their  behinds  with  the  soles  of  their  own  shoes.  So  it's  only  now  that  the  pink  shirt  notices  the  absence  of  his  friends  as  he  straightens  up,  puts  his  tongue  on  the  roof  of  his  mouth,  and  extends  his  bottom  lip,  intending  to  form  a  name  beginning  with  &quot;T&quot;  (Tommy?  Tony?  Tim?);  stops,  sighs,  says  &quot;Fuck  it&quot;  under  his  breath.  The  beer  has  made  his  eyes  slower  than  his  brain,  and  they  play  catch-up  in  their  sockets  as  he  moves  his  head  first  right  then  left.  He  looks  out  helplessly  now,  down,  along,  to-  ward  the  corner  his  friends  might  have  turned.  His  jaw  is  slack;  he  repeats  his  request  for  hot  dogs,  speaking  in  the  di-  rection  of  no  one  and  giving  in  to  a  slur.  Then  his  grip  slips;  the  beer  can  falls  to  the  floor.  &quot;You  pick  that  up,  please.&quot;  There  is  a  voice  speaking  to  him  with  slight  aggression,  and  the  boy  brings  his  head  round  with  some  effort  to  attend  to  it.  &quot;You  pick  it  up,  please.&quot;  The  kid  doesn't  want  any  trouble.  He  picks  it  up  willingly,  spilling  a  little,  but  making  no  complaint.  &quot;Sorry,  man,&quot;  he  says,  getting  a  firmer  hold  on  it.  &quot;There  you  go,  mate,&quot;  he  says  and  launches  the  can  toward  the  red  tub  on  his  right.  The  big  Greek  sighs  in  a  deep,  de-  liberate  way,  fishing  the  beer  can  out  of  his  tub  of  napkins,  and  the  kid  takes  in  a  sharp  breath,  wondering  ifthis  is  the  end  of  the  good  feeling.  He  can  see  that  even  the  big  Greek's  casual  grip  bruises  the  can,  giving  it  an  adolescent  overbite,  stretching  the  lip  over  the  rest  of  it.  The  big  Greek  looks  at  the  kid  as  he  does  this.  Then,  to  make  his  point,  he  waits  a  beat  and  throws  the  can  along  the  street,  aiming  for  a  mouthy  black  bin,  an  obedient  bulldog  called  to  heel  next  to  a  traffic  light.  &quot;Napkins,&quot;  he  says,  pointing  to  the  napkins.  &quot;Bin,&quot;  he  says,  pointing  to  the  bin.  But,  for  some  reason  best  ex-  plained  by  aerodynamics,  it  doesn't  work  out  like  that.  The  can's  busted  lip  hits  the  rim  of  the  bin,  and  the  can  spins  off,  retraces  its  flight.  Four  feet  from  the  stall,  it  collides  with  a  pas-  serby-another  young  man,  with  a  swaggering,  wide-legged  walk  and  a  suit  that  he  needs  to  make  him  better  than  this  kid  in  the  pink  shirt-and     the  can  weeps  piss-colored  beer  all  over  his  trousers,  soaking  the  right  pocket.  Immediately,  the  big  Greek  tries  to  offer  hot  dogs.  It's  the  only  currency  he  has.  He  gestures  desperately  to  the  three  shimmying  in  their  skins,  popping  in  their  own  fat,  those  earmarked  for  the  pink  shirt,  the  blue  shirt,  and  the  yellow  shirt,  while  his  partner  approaches  the  young  man,  apologetic,  carrying  nap-  kins,  as  eager  to  dab  the  man  as  the  man  is  to  avoid  him.  He  keeps  repeat-  ing  two  sentences:  If's  these  Aids,  they  don't  respect  nothing  and  Have  what  you  Tike,  free,  on  us.  While,  soaked  and  furious,  the  other  guy  plays  his  own  scratched  record:  If  my  phone's  fucked,  someone's  fucking  pay-  ing  for  it  and  I  don't  want  your  fucking  hot  dogs.  Until  it  emerges  that  his  phone  is  fine;  he  stalks  off  with  it,  phoning  his  secretary,  saying,  &quot;Some  cunt  spilt  beer  all  over  my  fucking  ..  .,&quot;  turning  the  corner  now,  but  still  loud  enough  for  thebig  Greek  to  hear  how  he  is  being  described  to  somebody  he  will  never  meet.  Maybe  itis  a  woman.  A  white  woman.  Maybe  she  is  beautiful,  with  long  blond  hair  and  teeth  like  in  the  ads.  The  big  Greek,  he's  not  cruel;  he's  not  cruel  like  some  guys  in  the  city;  but  somebody's  to  blame  for  this  latest  humiliation,  small  but  painful.  Some  blond  woman  he  has  never  met  will  now  never  make  love  to  him  because  he  is  just  some  cunt,  selling  hot  dogs,  spilling  beer.  She  won't  know  that  Greek  Men  Do  It  Better.  She  won't  discover  the  truth:  that  while  her  ancestors  were  swinging  through  the  trees  his  were  writing  great  books  and  sculpting  white  bodies;  bigger  than  men  and  smaller  than  the  gods;  halfway  between  here  and  heaven.  The  big  Greek  feels  his  face  get  hot.  He  feels  sure  he  should  have  hurt  that  man  for  saying  those  things,  but  the  opportunity  has  passed.  In  this  city,  you  might  miss  your  nemesis  in  a  crowded  shop  in  the  morning  and  fight  your  friend  in  a  park  in  the  afternoon,  never  knowing  your  mistake.  So  he  glares  at  the  pink  shirt.  And  the  pink  shirt  prods  his  own  chest,  either  side  of  the  sternum,  and  then  lowers  his  arms,  his  hands  cupped  as  if  holding  two  sandbags,  a  human  scale,  a  defeated  crucifix.  The  universal  gesture  for  &quot;Me&quot;&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you.  What  you  think?  I  stand  here  all  fucking  day  for  my  health?  Who's  going  to  take  these?  Where  are  the  other  two?  Why  you  order  if  you  not  going  to  eat?  You  pay  for  three.  Yes,  you  pay  for  three.&quot;  The  kid  remonstrates.  And  now  the  small  mean-looking  Greek  steps  into  the  arena.  &quot;Yes,  my  friend,  it's  your  fucking  problem.  It's  not  owr  fucking  problem.  Must  be  your  fucking  problem.  Four-  fifty  now,  please.&quot;  Once  again,  the  pink  shirt  reaches  for  a  word,  the  same  old  word.  It  is  strange  that  even  as  the  bodies  evolve  the  language  gets  smaller  and  smaller-  it  is  peculiar  how  few  words  you  need  to  travel  across  town,  get  in  a  fight,  ride  the  tube,  buy  a  hot  dog,  fall  in  love.  Here  comes  the  same  old  word.  Slowly,  head  back,  teeth  firmly  planted  in  bot-  tom  lip,  all  facial  muscles  pulled  tight:  catapult  face.  But  something  has  snapped  in  the  big  genial  Greek-this  is  the  last  day  he  can  be  spoken  to  like  that,  the  last  minute  he  can  be  genial  in  this  city.  It  has  finally  broken  him.  From  now  on,  when  people  ask  him  where  he's  from,  he  will  have  to  think  for  a  moment.  Soon  the  answer  [REDACTED]  will  feelas  strange  in  his  mouth  as  chalk.  From  now  on,  he's  from  Here,  subject  to  all  the  daily  cruelties  of  this  place.  And  he's  got  the  pink  shirt  by  the  collar  now,  before  the  kid  has  even  opened  his  mouth.  Next  thing  any-  body  knows,  the  kid's  been  hit,  badly,  across  the  nose,  and  it's  bleeding  and  bent  like  in  the  movies.  Peace-  keepers  and  antagonizers  appear  in  equal  measure  from  nowhere,  from  in-  visible  side  streets,  trying  to  put  their  hands  on  or  between  the  action,  and  thebig  Greek'spartner  says,  &quot;Marios,  Marios,  enough  now,&quot;  trying  to  halt  the  taking  off  of  the  apron,  because  evi-  dently  Marios  takes  off  his  apron  only  when  something  serious  occurs  in  his  life.  It  is  a  signal  of  his  intention  to  become  more  serious  still.  &quot;Let  the  boy  fightfor  himself,&quot;  says  Marios.  The  pink  shirt  is  on  the  ground,  lamenting.  He  says,  &quot;He  hit  me!  Fucker  hit  me  for  fucking  nothing!&quot;  Doesn't  ZADIESMITH  look  asif  he'd  ever  been  hit  before.  He  can't  get  up  because  of  the  shock.  He's  crying  and  bleeding  and  snotting,  and  is  choking  on  all  three  of  these  involun-  tary  emissions.  &quot;'These  kids,&quot;  says  a  spec-  tator,  a  man  leaning  out  of  the  mobile-  phone  shop  next  door.  &quot;All  mouth  and  no  trousers.&quot;  But  here  they  come,  the  trousers,  running  balloon-legged  as  air  rushes  up  the  absence  where  a  backside  is  meant  to  be;  yellow  shirt  and  blue  shirt,  at  the  scene,  trying  to  process  what  eight  or  so  eyewitnesses  are  shouting  in  unison,  trying  to  listen  to  the  testimony  of  their  friend.  &quot;He  hit  me!&quot;  explains  the  pink  shirt  again,  incredulous.  &quot;I  wasn't  doing  nuffink,  he  just  hit  me  for  no  fucking  reason!&quot;  And  it  is  this,  in  the  end,  that  he  can't  understand;  that  someone  should  hit  him  for  #0  reason,  that  things  happen  in  the  city  for  no  reason,  and  blood  can  spring  from  nowhere.  He's  thinking,  It's  not  fair.  He's  thinking  about  those  guys  in  the  papers-white  shirt,  green  shirt,  red  shirt,  pink  shirt,  orange  shirt-who  killed  a  black  guy  and  got  nothing,  and  here  he  is  minding  his  own  business  with  a  nose  pushed  three  centimetres  to  the  left  for  his  trouble.  &quot;Fight!&quot;  shouts  someone,  describing  what  has  just  happened,  inducing  what  is  to  come.  On  cue,  the  yellow  shirt  takes  a  wild  swing  at  Marios,  but  Mar-  10s  is  without  apron  and  Marios  is  too  fast  and  fearless.  His  punch  is  a  soar-  ing  sweeper  with  the  ring  hand  and  the  centaur  rides  down  the  boy's  cheek,  slicing  it  open.  The  blood  is  a  carmine  red.  Marios's  ancestors  were  making  wine  that  color,  pouring  it  into  goblets,  com-  paring  it  to  the  sea,  while  everyone  on  this  pavement  was  swinging  from  the  trees.  &quot;Come  on  then!&quot;  shouts  Marios,  beckoning  the  crowd  with  his  fingertips,  defying  those  who  feel  that  hitting  one  child  might  be  described  as  unfortunate  but  hitting  two  looks  like  malice.  &quot;Who  wants  some?&quot;  No  one-except  maybe  the  blue  shirt,  who  has  resolved  to  be  cunning,  sneak-  ing  up  behind  the  small  mean  Greek,  and  crushing  his  beer  can  on  the  back  of  his  head.  The  small  Greek  flinches  the  way  you  flinch  when  someone  plucks  a  hair  from  your  head.  And  for  a  moment  nothing  happens.  Then  he  turns.  No  one   can  be  in  any  doubt  now  that  this  partic-  ular  mean-looking  short  guy  is  a  book  that  the  wise  man  judges  by  its  cover.  He  draws  back  his  football  of  a  fist.  Every-  body  starts  to  run.  The  blue  shirt  is  first,  obviously,  followed  closely  by  the  small  mean  Greek,  followed  by  the  assembled  chorus,  which  contains  Marios,  may-  be  also  the  yellow  shirt-things  are  moving  too  fast  to  be  sure.  This  is  a  tableau  doing  the  hundred  metres.  The  blue  shirt  runs  as  if  Tyson  were  on  his  tail.  High-foots  it.  Works  his  arms  and  pulls  his  knees  up  and  keeps  his  head  low  like  Linford  Christie-  just  looking  for  the  free  pavement.  It  comes  down  toa  hunt  now,  and  though  the  small  Greek  has  his  two  fists,  his  simple  and  effective  city  weap-  onry,  the  boy  is  darting  like  an  okapi;  jumps  bins  and  weaves  between  push-  chairs  and  shoppers  and  old  people,  down  the  high  street,  searching  for  any  way  out.  &quot;Tll  kill  you!&quot;  says  the  small  mean  Greek.  No  one  is  in  any  doubt  of  that.  No  one  stops  running.  It's  all  a  matter  of  being  the  first  to  see  what's  coming  next.  That's  how  you  win  in  this  country,  any  country.  It's  the  blue  shirt,  the  chasee,  who  is  the  first  to  understand  that  the  hun-  dred  metres  is  going  to  turn  into  the  four  hundred  metres,  and  he  paces  himself  accordingly,  while  the  small  mean  Greek,  the  chaser,  struggles.  And  itis  the  blue  shirt  who  first  spots  the  final  metamorphosis,  from  the  four  hundred  metres  to  the  hurdles,  as  they  pass  the  crossroads  and  the  second  set  of  traffic  lights  and  head  directly  for  the  three-foot  iron  railings  that  line  the  pavement  outside  McDonald's.  It's  just  e/Zegant  the  way  he  leaps  them,  barely  breaking  his  stride,  his  legs  in  an  &quot;S&quot;  shape  as  he  glides  over,  landing  as  firm  as  a  Russian  gymnast  and  turn-  ing  the  corner  without  slowing  down.  Leaps  like  that  are  what  being  four-  teen  is  for.  The  small  mean  Greek  is  so  transfixed  by  it  that  he,  like  every-  one  else  in  the  street,  ignores  the  street  for  a  second,  focussing  only  on  this  fly-  ing  boy,  who  has  been  made  supernat-  ural  for  a  moment  by  the  extra  six  inches  in  the  air  that  his  fear  and  his  youth  have  bestowed  upon  him.  The  small  mean  Greek  ignores  the  street  like  everyone  else,  thinking  he  will  be  safe  like  everyone  else.  But  itis  only  he  who  is  heading  directly,  unknowingly,  for  the  tremendously  fat  man  in  the  brown  McDonald's  uniform  who  is  leav-  ing  work,  pushing  open  the  large  glass  doors,  minding  his  own  business  with  a  Big  Mac  and  large  fries.  An  immense  man.  Three  hundred  pounds  of  a  man.  He  barely  walks,  this  man,  but  waddles;  he  needs  to  turn  his  feet  out  as  much  as  possible  just  to  stay  upright.  His  long  hair  is  in  a  ponytail,  wet  with  sweat  from  root  to  tip.  He's  out  of  breath  from  the  effort  of  crossing  the  road,  and  you  get  the  feeling  he's  aways  out  of  breath.  It's  hard  work  being  that  weight  in  this  city  and  keeping  any  dignity.  You  get  stared  at  with  pity  and  relief,  because  whatever  the  commuters  have  done  today,  no  mat-  ter  how  shameful  the  act,  it  is  put  into  perspective  by  the  sight  of  you  and  oth-  ers  like  you,  fat  and  poor.  Fat  poor  people  are  truly  public  television.  And  if  this  guy  notices  anything  wrong  as  he  bites  into  his  burger  it's  just  that  he  can't  feel  any  eyes  on  him  this  afternoon.  Something  else  must  be  happening  on  a  different  channel.  &quot;Move!&quot;  shouts  someone.  But  it's  hard  to  save  a  man  if  you  don't  know  his  name.  They're  not  close  enough  to  see  &quot;Stuart&quot;***&quot;  on  his  nametag.  Only  three  stars.  Five  stars  are  the  most  you  can  receive  as  a  McDonald's  employee.  But  Stuart***  is  only  an  average  Mc-  Donald's  employee.  Lord  knows  what  he  does  wrong.  Maybe  his  weight  makes  him  unpleasant  to  the  customers.  Maybe  he's  slow  with  the  coffee.  Through  the  glass  front  of  the  restaurant,  ten  feet  away,  you  can  see  that  other  servers  are  Somalian,  or  Indian,  or  Caribbean,  and  are  in  the  five-star  bracket.  Maybe  they  give  five  stars  only  to  their  own.  No  doubt  Stuart*  **  has  suspected  this.  Jesus!  That  is  the  sound  from  the  crowd  as  the  two  men  collide  and  Stuart***  goes  up  in  the  air,  his  belly  moving  like  a  giant  beanbag,  his  whole  form  rising  a  foot,  two  feet  from  the  ground,  at  least.  Christ  is  the  word  as  he  lands,  badly,  horribly,  as  only  a  fat  man  can  land.  For  even  once  he's  hit  the  ground  it  is  not  over,  as  the  force  of  the  impact  travels  in  waves  through  the  loose  flesh.  And  then  a  collective  gasp  occurs,  the  kind  people  believe  to  be  a  conven-  tion  of  the  movies  until  it  happens  to  them.  Many  of  the  women  scream.   The  more  responsible  people,  the  peo-  ple  we  would  like  to  have  running  our  hospitals  and  checking  our  gas  heaters,  look  for  the  nearest  phone  and  tenta-  tively  suggest  first  aid  or  that  no  one  panic.  The  yellow  shirt  vomits  where  he  stands.  The  small  mean  Greek  kneels  on  the  ground  where  he  fell,  looks  to  the  heavens,  and  shouts  something  in  his  mother  tongue.  &quot;Oh  God!&quot;  cries  a  woman,  as  if  Stu-  art&quot;**  were  her  own  child.  &quot;Oh  God,  oh  God,  oh  God!  I  can't  stand  it!&quot;  She  means  she  can't  stand  the  thought  that  blood  can  spring  from  nowhere,  even  when  it  isn't  her  own.  But  you've  got  to  be  tougher  than  this  woman  if  you  want  to  survive  in  this  country,  any  country.  &quot;Somebody  call  an  ambulance!&quot;  she  says,  though  she  knows  in  all  probability  that  somebody  already  has.  This  is  the  truth,  whichever  way  you  look  at  it:  Stuart***  needs  an  ambulance  right  now.  *s  stubby  sausage  of  a  right  leg  is  bent  backward  at  the  knee.  His  foot  is  back-to-front.  He  is  faced  with  his  own  heel  like  a  puppet  doing  the  cancan.  His  whole  body  reverberates  with  the  pain.  You  can  tell,  because  he's  shaking  like  a  Mexican  jumping  bean.  He  can't  cry,  because  he  hasn't  even  got  that  far.  He  hasn't  got  as  far  as  comse-  quences.  He's  still  sitting  in  the  event.  Yet  already  he  has  passed  into  anecdote,  and  those  who  didn't  see  it  are  being  told  about  it  by  those  who  did,  putting  more  pounds  on  him  than  his  frame  can  hold,  placing  him  higher  in  the  air  than  a  man  can  go.  People  will  go  home  this  evening  and  phone  their  friends.  People  will  elab-  orate  over  dinner.  And  it  might  serve  to  stave  off  an  awkward  silence  between  colleagues  tomorrow  morning  as  the  train  rumbles  on  from  the  end  of  the  line  to  the  middle  of  town.  For  a  brief  time,  sitting  in  the  street  stopping  the  traffic,  Stuart***  becomes  the  center  of  the  city,  the  median  coordinate,  a  dubious  honor  he  never  hoped  for  nor  expected  to  re-  ceive.  He  is  in  enough  pain  for  the  entire  city.  Everybody  watches  him  begin  to  hyperventilate  and  dig  his  fingers  into  his  stomach,  searching  for  where  it  hurts,  for  where  the  hurt  begins.  Someone  should  tell  him  he'll  split  his  lip  if  he  keeps  biting  down  on  it  like  that.  Stuart***'s  eyes  are  closed.  He  will  be  the  last  per-  son  to  see  what  has  happened  to  him.  