 RIGHT,  that's  it,  me  boy.&quot;  His  kit  R  bag  was  stowed  between  the  seats,  his  mackintosh  folded  beside  him.  Ticket,  wallet,  sponge  bag,  rubber  johnnies,  tasks  list.  Tasks  bloody  list.  He  held  an  eyes-front  as  the  train  pulled  out.  None  of  that  soppy  stuff  for  him:  the  lowered  window,  the  waving  hankie,  the  piping  of  the  eye.  Not  that  you  couldlower  the  window  anymore-  you  just  sat  in  these  cattle  trucks  with  other  old  fools  on  cheap  tickets  and  stared  out  through  sealed  glass.  And  not  that  Pamela  would  be  there  if  he  did  look.  She'd  already  be  in  the  car  park  grinding  down  the  wheel  rims  on  the  concrete  curb  as  she  tried  to  maneuver  the  Astra  closer  to  the  token-slot  thingy.  She  always  complained  that  the  men  who  designed  the  barriers  didn't  realize  that  women  had  shorter  arms  than  men.  He  said  that  that  was  no  excuse  for  play-  ing  argy-bargy  with  the  curb;  if  you  couldn't  reach  you  should  just  get  out,  woman.  Anyway,  that's  where  she'd  be  by  now,  torturing  the  tire  as  her  personal  part  in  the  battle  of  the  sexes.  And  she  was  there  already  because  she  didn't  want  to  see  him  not  looking  at  her  from      the  train.  And  he  was  not  looking  at  her  from  the  train  because  shedid  insist  on  adding  to  his  tasks  bloody  list  at  the  last  bloody  moment.  So:  Stilton  from  Paxton's  as  per.  Se-  lection  of  cottons,  needles,  zips,  and  buttons  as  per.  Rubber  rings  for  Kilner  jars  as  per.  Elizabeth  Arden  loose  pow-  der  as  per.  Fine  asper.  But  each  year  there  was  something  she  remembered  at  D  Day  minus  thirty  seconds,  some-  thing  designed  to  make  him  go  poling  across  townon  some  wild-goose  chase.  Find  another  glass  to  replace  the  one  that  got  broken-read,  the  one  that  you,  Major  Jacko  Jackson,  retired,  broke  in  adeliberate  and  malicious  fashion  after  going  heavy  on  the  gargling  juice.  Vain  to  pointout  that  it  was  the  sort  of  glass  that  had  gone  out  of  stock  even  before  we  bought  it  secondhand.  This  year  it  was,  Go  to  the  big  John  Lewis  in  Oxford  Street  and  see  if  they  sell  the  outside  bit  of  the  salad  spinner,  which  sustained  a  life-threatening  crack  when  it  got  dropped  by  Mister  Someone,  be-  cause  the  inside  still  works  all  right  and  they  might  just  sell  the  outside  bowl  separately.  And  there  in  the  car  park  she'd  been  waving  the  guts  of  it  at  him  so  that  he  could  take  it  with  him  and  not  buy  the  wrong  size  or  whatever.  Practically  trying  to  force  it  into  his  kit  bag.  Aagh.  Still,  she  made  good  coffee,  he's  al-  ways  given  her  that.  He  set  the  flask  on  the  table  and  unwrapped  the  foil  pack-  age.  Choccy  biccies.  Jacko's  choccy  bic-  cies.  He  still  thought  of  them  like  that.  Was  this  right  or  wrong?  Were  you  as  young  as  you  felt  or  as  old  as  you  looked?  That  was  the  great  question  nowadays,  it  seemed  to  him.  Maybe  the  only  one.  He  poured  himself  some  cof-  fee  and  munched  a  biscuit.  The  soft,  fa-  miliar  gray-green  English  landscape  calmed  him,  then  cheered  him.  Sheep,  cattle,  trees  blown  into  hair  styles.  A  loi-  tering  canal.  Put  that  canal  on  a  charge,  Sarnt-Major.  Yessap.  He  was  rather  pleased  with  this  year's  postcard.  A  ceremonial  sword  in  its  scabbard.  Subtle,  that,  he  thought.  Time  was  when  he'd  sent  cards  of  field  guns  and  famous  Civil  War  battlefields.  Well,  he'd  been  younger  then.  &quot;Dear  Babs,  Dinner's  on  the  17th.  Keep  the  afternoon  free.  Yours  ever,  Jacko.&quot;  Quite  straightforward.  Never  did  anything  like  put  it  in  an  envelope.  Principles  of  Concealment,  Section  5b,  Paragraph  12:  The  enemy  is  seldom  likely  to  spot  anything  placed  directly  in  front  of  its  face.  He  didn't  even  bother  to  go  into  Shrewsbury.  Just  bunged  the  card  in  the  village  box.  Were  you  as  young  as  you  felt  or  as  old  as  you  looked?  The  ticket  collector,  or  inspector,  or  train  manager,  or  what-  ever  they  called  him  nowadays,  hadn't  given  him  a  glance.  Just  saw  a  senior  cit-  izen's  midweek  excursion  return  and  read  him  as  apiece  of  no  trouble,  no  in-  terest,  some  cheapskate  who  brought  his  own  coffee  as  a  way  of  saving  money.  Well,  that  was  true.  The  pension  didn't  stretch  asfaras  it  had  at  first.  He'd  long  ago  given  up  his  subscription  to  the  club.  Apart  from  the  annual  regimental  din-  ner,  he  needed  to  go  up  to  town  only  if  his  gnashers  went  wrong  and  he  didn't  trust  the  local  vet  to  fix  them.  Made  far  more  sense  to  stay  in  a  B.  and  B.near  the  station.  If  you  had  the  full  works  for  breakfast,  managed  to  play  your  cards  right  and  sneak  an  extra  sausage,  you  were  set  up  for  the  day.  Same  again  on  the  Friday  and  that  would  get  you  through  till  you  got  home.  Back  to  base.  Reporting  for  duty,  all  salad  spinners  present  and  correct,  Ma'am.  No,  he  wouldn't  think  of  that  yet.  This  was  his  annual  leave.  His  two  days  of  furlough.  He'd  had  his  hair  cut  as  per.  Had  the  blazer  cleaned  as  per.  He  was  an  orderly  man,  with  orderly  expecta-  tions  and  pleasures.  Even  if  those  plea-  sures  were  not  as  strong  as  they  once  had  been.  Different,  let's  say.  As  you  got  older,  your  head  for  the  sauce  wasn't  what  it  used  to  be.  You  couldn't  tie  one  on  like  in  the  old  days.  So  you  drank  less,  enjoyed  it  more,  and  ended  up  just  as  newted  and  owly  as  before.  Well,  that  was  the  principle.  Didn't  always  work,  of  course.  And  the  same  with  Babs.  How  he  remembered  that  first  go-  round,  all  those  years  ago.  Surprising  he  did,  given  his  condition  at  the  time.  And  that  was  another  thing,  being  newted  and  owly  didn't  seem  to  make  any  dif-  ference  to  the  honorable  member  then.  Three  times.  You  old  dog,  Jacko.  Once  to  say  Hullo,  once  the  real  business,  then  once  more  for  the  road.  Well,  why  else  did  they  sell  rubber  johnnies  in  packets  of  three?  A  week's  supply  for  some  chaps,  no  doubt,  but  when  you'd  been  saving  it  up  as  he  had  ...  True,  the  honorable  member  wasn't  up  to  the  three-card  trick  anymore.  Once  was  probably  quite  enough  if  youhad  your  senior  citizen's  rail  card.  Wouldn't  do  to  strain  the  ticker.  And  the  idea  of  Pamela  having  toface  some-  thing  like  that  .  ..  No,  he  had  no  inten-  tion  of  straining  the  ticker.  The  cere-  monial  sword  in  its  scabbard,  and  just  a  half-bottle  of  champagne  between  the  two  of  them.  They  used  to  get  through  a  whole  bottle  in  the  old  days.  Now  it  was  just  a  half-something  on  special  offer  from  that  Thresher's  near  the  sta-  tion-and  they  often  didn't  finish  it.  Babs  got  heartburn  easily  and  he  didn't  want  to  be  too  kiboshed  for  the  reg-  imental  dinner.  Mostly  they  talked.  Sometimes  they  slept.  He  didn't  blame  Pamela.  Some  women  just  went  off  it  after  the  change.  Simple  matter  of  biology,  nobody's  fault.  Justa  question  of  female  wiring.  You  set  up  a  system,  the  system  pro-  duces  what  it's  designed  for-namely,  sprog  manufacture,  witness  Jennifer  and  Chris-and  then  it  shuts  itself  down.  Old  Mother  Nature  stops  lubricating  the  parts.  No  surprise,  given  that  Old  Mother  Nature  is  decidedly  of  the  fe-  male  persuasion.  So  he  wasn't  to  blame,  either.  All  he  was  doing  was  making  sure  that  pis  machinery  was  still  in  work-  ing  order.  Old  Father  Nature  still  lubri-  cating  the  parts.  A  matter  of  hygiene,  really.  ,  Yes,  that  was  right.  He  was  straight  with  himself  about  it.  No  weasel  words.  Couldn't  exactlydiscuss  it  with  Pam,  but  as  long  as  you  could  look  yourself  full  in  the  shaving  mirror.  He  won-  dered  if  those  chaps  he'd  sat  opposite  at  the  dinner  a  couple  of  years  ago  could  do  that.  The  way  they'd  talked.  A  lot  of  the  old  mess  rules  had  gone,  of  course,  or  were  just  ignored,  and  those  little  turkey  cocks  had  been  pretty  much  rat-  69  faced  by  the  start  of  the  dinner  and  had  started  maligning  the  fair  sex  before  the  port  was  passed.  He'd  have  put  them  on  a  charge  himself.  The  regiment  had  taken  on  a  few  too  many  clever  dicks  lately,  inhis  opinion.  And  he  had  had  to  listen  to  three  of  them  holding  forth  as  if  the  wisdom  of  the  ages  were  at  their  beck  and  call.  &quot;Marriage  is  a  ques-  tion  of  what  you  can  get  away  with,&quot;  the  ringleader  had  said,  and  the  others  had  nodded  in  agreement.  This  wasn't  what  had  stuck  in  his  craw,  however.  It  was  when  the  fellow  had  gone  on  to  explain-or,  more  exactly,  boast-how  he'd  taken  up  again  with  an  old  girl-  friend,  someone  from  back  before  he'd  met  his  wife.  &quot;Doesn't  count,&quot;  one  of  the  other  clever  dicks  had  replied.  &quot;Preéxisting  adultery.  Doesn't  count.&quot;  Jacko  had  taken  his  while  to  work  that  one  out,  and  when  he  did  he  didn't  much  like  what  he  understood  by  it.  Weasel  words.  Had  he  been  like  that,  back  when  he'd  met  Babs?  No,  he  didn't  think  so.  He  didn't  try  to  pretend  that  things  weren't  what  they  were.  He  didn't  say  to  himself,  Oh,  it's  because  I  was  all  newtedand  owly  at  the  time,  or,  Oh,  it's  because  Pam  is  like  she  is  nowadays.  Nor  did  he  say,  Oh,  it's  because  Babs  is  blond  and  I've  always  gone  for  blondes,  which  is  odd  because  Pam's  a  brunette,  unless  of  course  it  isn't  odd  at  all.  Babs  was  a  nice  girl,  she  was  there,  she  was  blond,  and  they'd  rung  the  gong  three  times  that  night.  There  wasn't  more  to  it  than  that.  Except  thathe'd  remembered  her.  He'd  remembered  her,  and  the  fol-  lowing  year  he'd  found  her  again.  The  following  year  he  couldn't  be  sure  she'd  remembered  him,buteven  so  she'd  been  pleased  to  see  him.  He'd  brought  a  bottle  of  champagne  on  the  off-chance,  and  that  had  somehow  sealed  things.  He'd  stayed  the  whole  af-  ternoon,  told  her  about  himself,  and  they'd  rung  the  gong  three  times  again.  He'd  saidthat  he'd  send  her  a  postcard  when  he  was  up  in  town  next,  and  that's  how  it  had  got  going.  And  now  it  was-  what?-twenty-two,  twenty-three  years?  He'd  brought  her  flowers  on  their  tenth  anniversary,  a  potted  plant  on  their  twentieth.  A  poinsettia.  The  thought  of  her  kept  him  going  on  those  bleak  mornings  when  he  went  out  to  feed  the  pullets  and  scrape  away  at  the  coal  bunker.  She  was-what  was  that  TO  phrase?-his  window  of  opportunity.  She'd  tried  to  end  it  once-go  into  re-  tirement,  she'd  joked-but  he  hadn't  let  her.  He'd  insisted,  come  close  to  making  a  scene.  She'd  given  in,  and  stroked  his  face,  and  the  next  year  when  he'dsent  his  card  he'd  been  scared  fartless,  but  Babs  had  been  as  good  as  her  word.  Of  course  they'd  changed.  Everyone  changed.  Pamela,  for  a  start:  the  chil-  dren  going,  the  garden,  thething  she'd  developed  about  dogs,  the  way  she'd  cut  her  hair  as  short  as  thelawn,the  way  she  was  always  cleaning  the  house-not  that  it  seemed  to  him  any  different  from  how  it  had  been  before  she'd  started  al-  ways  cleaning  it.  The  way  she'd  stopped  wanting  to  go  anywhere,  saidshe'd  done  her  travelling.  He'd  said  they  had  time  on  their  hands  now:  but  they  did  and  they  didn't.  They  had  more  time  and  they  got  less  done,  that  was  the  truth  of  the  matter.  And  they  weren't  idle,  either.  He'd  changed,  too.  The  way  he  found  himself  getting  scared  when  he  was  up  a  ladder  cleaning  out  the  gutters.  He'd  done  it  for  twenty-five  years,  for  God's  sake,  it  was  top  of  his  tasks  list  every  spring,  and  with  a  bungalow  he  was  never  that  far  off  the  ground,  but  he  still  found  himself  scared.  Not  scared  of  falling  off,  it  wasn't  that.  He  always  pushed  down  the  side  locks  on  the  lad-  der,  he  didn't  suffer  from  vertigo,  and  he  knew  that  if  he  fell  he'd  probably  land  on  the  grass.  It  was  just  that  as  he  stood  there,  nose  a  few  inches  above  the  gutter,  scraping  at  the  moss  and  sodden  Aldy  3  *  -  CoURTESY  CoNFINEME     leaves  and  stuff  with  a  trowel,  shifting  the  twigs  and  bits  of  attempted  bird's  nest,  looking  up  to  check  for  broken  tiles  and  see  that  the  TV  aerial  was  still  standing  to  attention-as  he  stood  there,  all  protected,  [REDACTED]  boots  on  bis  feet,  Windcheater  around  him,  woolly  cap  on  his  head,  and  rubber  gloves  on  his  hands,  he  would  some-  times  feel  the  tears  begin  and  he  knew  it  wasn't  because  of  the  wind,  and  then  he'd  get  stuck,  one  rubber  hand  clamped  to  the  guttering,  the  other  one  pretending  to  poke  into  the  curve  of  thick  plastic,  and  he'd  be  scared  fartless.  Of  the  whole  damn  thing.  He  liked  to  think  that  Babs  never  changed,  and  she  didn't,  not  in  his  mind,  not  in  his  memory  or  his  antici-  pation.  But  at  the  same  time  he  ac-  knowledged  that  her  hair  was  no  longer  quite  the  blond  it  had  once  been.  And  after  he'd  persuaded  her  not  to  go  into  retirement  she'd  changed,  too.  Didn't  like  undressing  in  front  of  him.  Kept  her  nightie  on.  Got  heartburn  from  his  champagne.  One  year  he'd  brought  her  the  more  expensive  sort  but  the  result  was  still  the  same.  Turned  out  the  light  more  and  more.  Didn't  quite  make  the  effort  she  once  had  to  get  him  started.  Slept  when  he  slept,  sometimes  before.  But  she  was  still  what  he  looked  for-  ward  to  when  he  was  feeding  the  pul-  lets,  scraping  the  coal,  poking  at  the  gutter  with  tears  leaking,  tears  he  smeared  across  his  cheekbones  with  the  back  of  a  rubber  glove.  She  was  his  link  NT  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  6,  1999  to  the  past,  to  apast  in  which  he  could  really  tie  one  on  and  still  ring  the  gong  three  times  inarow.  She  could  get  a  bit  mumsy  with  him,but  everyone  needed  that,  too,  didn't  they?  Choccy  biccy,  Jacko?  Yes,  a  bit  of  that.  But  also,  You're  a  real  man,  you  know  that,  Jacko?  There  aren't  that  many  real  men  around,  they're  a  dying  breed,  but  you're  one  of  them.  They  were  approaching  Euston.  A  young  chappie  across  from  Jacko  took  out  his  bloodymobile  phone  and  dialled  pippily.  &quot;Hello,  darling.  ...  Yes,  listen,  bloody  train's  stuck  somewhere  outside  bloody  [REDACTED].  They  don't  tell  you  anything.  No,  at  least  an  hour  more,  I'd  say,  and  then  I've  got  to  get  across  Lon-  don....  Yes....  Yes,  do  that....  Me,  too.  ...  Bye.&quot;  He  tucked  away  his  phone  and  stared  at  Jacko,  as  if  daring  him  to  have  overheard.  So:  runthrough  the  orders  for  the  day  again.  Station,  ring  John  Lewis  re  early  strike  on  salad  spinner.  Dinner  at  one  of  those  restaurants  near  the  B.  and  B.:  Indian,  Turkish,  didn't  matter.  Maximum  expenditure  eight  pounds.  The  Marquis  of  Granby,  two  pints  max-  imum,  don't  want  to  keep  the  billet  awake  with  too  many  flushings  in  the  night.  [REDACTED],  extra  sausage  if  poss.  Half-bottle  champagne  from  Thresher's.  Errands:  Stilton  asper,  Kilner  rings  as  per,  loose  powder  as  per.  Two  o'clock,  Babs.  Even  the  thought  of  it...  Cap-  tain,  art  thou  sleeping  there  below?  Honorable  members  kindly  rise.  ...  The  ceremonial  sword  in  its  scabbard.  Two  until  six.  Tea  at  some  point.  Tea  and  a  biccy.  Funny  how  that  had  become  part  of  the  tradition,  too.  And  Babs  was  so  good  at  encouraging  a  fellow,  making  him  feel  just  for  a  moment,  even  in  the  dark,  evenwith  his  eyes  shut,  just  for  a  moment  that  he  was  .  ..  what  he  wanted  to  be.  &quot;T)  IGHT,  that's  it,  me  boy.  Home  James,  and  don't  spare  the  horses.&quot;  His  kit  bag  was  stowed  between  the  seats,  his  mackintosh  folded  beside  him.  Ticket,  wallet,  sponge  bag,  tasks  list  now  with  little  neat  ticks  appended.  Rubber  johnnies!  That  particular  joke  had  been  on  him.  The  whole  thing  had  been  a  joke  on  him.  He  did  an  eyes-  right  through  the  sealed  window:  an  overlit  sandwich  bar,  a  stalled  baggage  train,  a  porter  in  a  silly  uniform.  Why  HYGIENE  do  train  drivers  never  have  children?  Because  they  always  pull  out  on  time.  Ho  bloody  ho.  Putting  rubber  johnnies  on  the  list  had  become  his  annual  joke  because  he  hadn't  needed  any.  Not  for  years.  Babs,  once  she  knew  and  trusted  him,  said  they  didn't  need  to  bother.  He'd  asked,  What  about  the  other  thing,  namely  sprog  manufacture.  She'd  replied,  &quot;Jacko,  I  think  the  danger  of  that's  well  past.&quot;  It  had  all  gone  as  per  to  begin  with,  per  as  in  perfect.  Train  on  time,  pole  across  town  to  John  Lewis,  no  spare  parts  alas  sold  separately,  but  special  offer,  probably  cheaper  now  than  when  Madam  bought  it.  Debate  with  self  about  whether  to  discard  guts  of  salad  spinner  at  point  of  purchase  and  claim  he'd  managed  to  locate  and  supply  outer  bowl  by  itself.  Decision  made  to  present  whole  item  of  matériel  on  return.  After  all,  old  Slippery  Hands  might  celebrate  one  evening  by  dropping  the  insides  of  the  thing  for  a  change.  Except  that,  knowing  his  luck,  he'd  probably  smash  the  bow!  again  and  they'd  be  stockpiling  guts  for  the  rest  of  their  existence.  Back  across  town.  Recognized  and  remembered  by  foreign  chappie  who  ran  the  B.  and  B.  Coin  in  slot,  report  to  base  re  safe  arrival.  Very  decent  chicken  curry.  Two  pints,  no  more  no  less,  at  the  Marquis  of  Granby.  Discipline  main-  tained.  No  undue  pressure  on  bladder  and  prostate.  Night  surmounted  with  only  the  one  visit  to  the  latrines.  Slept  like  the  proverbial  toddler.  Sweet-talked  way  to  extra  sausagethe  next  morning.  Special  offer  on  half  of  champagne  at  Thresher's.  Tasks  list  accomplished  with  no  hitch  or  glitch.  Wash  and  brushup,  toothpaste  duty.  Presented  self  forin-  spection  at  two  o'clock  sharp.  And  that  was  when  the  special  of-  fers  had  run  out.  He'd  rung  the  bell  pic-  turing  the  familiar  blond  curls  and  pink  housecoat,  hearing  the  giggles.  But  someone  dark  and  artificial  and  middle-  aged  had  answered  the  door.  He  stood  there  puzzled,  not  speaking.  &quot;Present  for  me?&quot;  she'd  said,  proba-  bly  just  making  conversation,  and  had  reached  out  and  taken  the  champagne  by  its  neck.  Instead  of  replying,  he'd  hung  on  to  the  bottle,  and  they'd  had  a  silly  tug-of-war  until  he  said,  &quot;Babs.&quot;  &quot;Babs'll  be  a  little  while,&quot;  she  said,  opening  the  door  wider.  This  didn't  seem  right,  but  he  followed  her  into  the  sitting  room,  which  had  been  re-  decorated  since  this  time  last  year.  Re-  decorated  like  a  whore's  parlor,  he'd  thought.  &quot;Shall  I  put  thatin  the  fridge?&quot;  she'd  asked,  but  he  held  on  to  the  bottle.  &quot;Up  from  the  country?&quot;  she'd  asked.  &quot;Military  gentleman?&quot;  she'd  asked.  &quot;Cat  got  your  tongue?&quot;  she'd  asked.  They  sat  insilence  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  until  he  heard  one  door  close,  then  another.  The  dark-haired  woman  now  stood  in  front  of  him  with  a  tall  blonde  whose  bra  presented  her  tits  to  him  like  a  fruit  bowl.  &quot;Babs,&quot;  he'd  repeated.  &quot;I'm  Babs,&quot;  the  blonde  replied.  &quot;You're  not  Babs,&quot;  he'd  said.  &quot;If  you  say  so,&quot;  she'd  replied.  &quot;You're  not  Babs,&quot;  he'drepeated.  The  two  women  had  looked  at  each  other,  and  the  blonde  had  said,  in  a  ca-  sual,  hard  way,  &quot;Look,  Grandpa,  I'm  whoeveryou  want,  right?&quot;  He  stood  up.  He  looked  at  the  two  tarts.  He  explained,  slowly,  so  that  any  wet-eared  recruit  could  understand.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  &quot;You  mean  Nora.&quot;  &quot;Nora?&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  called  her  Nora.  I'm  sorry.  No,  she  passed  on  about  nine  months  ago.&quot;  He  hadn't  understood.  He  thought  they  meant  that  she'd  moved.  Then  he  hadn't  understood  again.  He  thought  they  meant  that  she'd  been  murdered,  killed  in  a  car  crash  or  something.  &quot;She  was  rather  elderly,&quot;  one  of  them  said  eventually,  by  way  of  expla-  nation.  He  must  have  looked  fierce,  be-  cause  she'd  added,  rather  nervously,  &quot;No  offense.  Nothing  personal.&quot;  They'd  opened  the  champagne.  The  dark  woman  brought  the  wrong  glasses.  He  and  Babs  had  always  drunk  out  of  tumblers.  The  champagne  was  warm.  &quot;I  sent  a  postcard,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  cere-  monial  sword.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  they  answered,  not  interested.  They  drained  their  glasses.  The  dark  woman  said,  &quot;Well,  doyou  still  want  what  you've  come  for?&quot;  He  didn't  exactly  think  about  it.  He  must  have  nodded.  The  blond  girl  said,  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  be  Babs?&quot;  Babs  had  been  Nora.  That  was  what  went  through  hisbrain.  He  felt  himself  grow  fierce  again.  &quot;I  want  you  T|  to  be  who  you  are,&quot;  he  had  shouted.  The  two  women  looked  at  each  other  again.  The  blond  girl  said,  firmly  but  not  convincingly,  &quot;I'm  Debbie.&quot;  He  should  have  left  then.  He  should  have  left  out  of  respect  for  Babs,  out  of  loyalty  to  Babs.  On  the  other  side  of  the  sealed  win-  dow  the  landscape  went  by,  as  it  did  every  year,  but  he  could  find  no  shape  in  it.  Sometimes  he  confused  loyalty  to  Babs  with  loyalty  to  Pamela.  He  reached  into  his  kit  bag  for  the  ther-  mos.  Sometimes-oh,  only  a  few  times,  but  it  had  happened-he'd  con-  fused  fucking  Babs  with  fucking  Pam-  ela.  It  was  as  if  he'd  been  at  home.  As  if  that  happened  at  home.  He'dgone  into  what  used  to  be  Babs's  room.  Redecorated,  too.  He  couldn't  take  in  what  was  new,  only  what  was  missing  from  before.  She'd  asked  him  what  he  wanted.  He  hadn't  replied.  She'd  taken  some  money  and  handed  him  a  rubber  johnny.  He'd  stood  there  holding  it.  Babs  hadn't.  Babs  wouldn't.  ...  &quot;Want  me  to  put  it  on  for  you,  Gramps?&quot;  He'd  batted  her  handaway  and  dropped  his  trousers,  then  his  under-  pants.  He  knew  he  wasn't  thinking  well,  but  it  seemed  to  be  the  best  idea,  the  only  idea.  It  was  what  he'd  come  for,  after  all.  It  was  what  he'd  paid  for  now.  The  honorable  member  was  hid-  ing  his  light  under  a  bushel,  but  it  seemed  that  if  he  indicated  what  was  required,  if  he  gave  the  orders,  then  ...  He  sensed  Debbie  watching  him,  half  standing,  one  knee  on  the  bed.  He  squidgy-fingered  the  johnny  onto  his  cock,  expecting  the  action  to  bump-start  it.  He  looked  at  Debbie,  at  the  offered  fruit  bowl,  but  that  was  no  help.  He  looked  down  at  his  limp  cock,  at  the  wrinkled  johnny  with  its  droop-  ing,  unfillable  teat.  He  felt  the  memory  of  lubricated  rubber  on  his  fingertips.  He  thought  to  himself,  Right,  that's  it,  me  boy.  She  had  pulled  a  handful  of  tissues  from  the  quilted  box  on  the  bedside  table  andhanded  them  across.  He  dried  his  face.  She  gave  him  a  little  of  his  money  back;  just  a  little.  He  dressed  quickly  and  walked  out  into  the  blind-  ing  streets.  He  wandered  around  point-  lessly.  A  digital  display  above  some  shop  told  him  that  it  was  three  o'clock.  He realized  that  the  johnny  was  still  on  his  cock.  Sheep.  Cows.  A  tree  blown  intoa  hair  style.  A  stupid  bloody  little  en-  campment  of  bungalows  full  of  stupid  cunts  who  made  him  want  to  scream  and  puke  and  pull  the  alarm  cord  or  whatever  the  fuck  they  had  instead  of  the  alarm  cord  now-adays.  Stupid  cunts  like  himself.  And  he  was  going  back  to  his  own  stupid  bloody  little  bungalow  that  he'd  spent  so  many  years  doing  up.  He  unscrewed  the  thermos  and  poured  himself  some  coffee.  Two  days  in  the  flask  and  stone  cold.  In  days  of  yore  he  used  to  liven  it  up  with  the  contents  of  a  hip  flask.  Now  it  was  just  cold,  cold  and  old.  Fair  enough,  eh,  Jacko?  He'd  have  to  give  another  coat  of  yacht  varnish  to  the  decking  outside  the  French  windows  because  it  kept  getting  scuffed  up  by  those  new  patio  chairs.  ...  The  utility  room  could  do  with  a  lick  of  paint.  .  .  .  He'd  take  the  mower  in  and  have  the  blades  sharp-  ened-not  that  you  could  find  anyone  to  do  that  nowadays.  They  just  looked  at  youand  suggested  youbuy  one  of  those  hover  jobs  with  an  orange  plastic  widget  instead  of  a  blade.  ...  Babs  was  Nora.  He  didn't  have  to  wear  a  johnny  because  she  knew  he  didn't  go  anywhere  else  and  she  was  way  past  getting  pregnant.  She  only  came  out  of  retirement  once  a  year,  for  his  sake.  Just  got  a  bit  fond  of  you,  Jacko,  that's  all.  Made  a  joke  one  time  about  her  bus  pass  and  that  was  how  he'd  known  she  was  older  than  he,  older  than  Pam,  too.  Once,  when  they  were  still  getting  through  a  whole  bottle  in  the  course  of  the  afternoon,  she'd  offered  to  take  her  top  teeth  out  to  suck  him,  and  he'd  laughed  but  thought  it  disgusting.  Babs  was  Nora  and  Nora  was  dead.  The  fellows  at  the  dinner  hadn't  no-  ticed  any  difference.  He'd  kept  his  disci-  pline.  Hadn't  got  rat-faced.  &quot;Can't  man-  age  it  so  well  anymore,  to  tell  the  truth,  old  boy,&quot;  he  had  said,  and  someone  had  sniggered  as  if  there  were  a  joke  in  it.  He'd  bailed  out  early  and  had  a  drink  at  the  Marquis  of  Granby.  &quot;No,  just  the  half  tonight.  Can't  manage  it  so  well  anymore,  to  tell  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;Never  say  die,&quot;  the  barman  had  replied.  He  despised  himself  for  the  way  he'd  pretended  with  the  tart.  Do  you  still  want  what  you've  come  for?  Oh  yes,  he  still  wanted  what  he'd  come  for,  but  that  wasn't  anything  that  she  could  possibly  know  about.  He  and  Babs  hadn't  done  it  for,  what,  five,  six  years?  The  last  year  or  two  they'd  barely  even  sipped  the  champagne.  He  liked  her  to  put  on  that  mumsy  nightie  he  was  al-  ways  teasing  her  about,  climb  into  bed  withhim,  turn  out  the  light,  and  talk  about  the  old  days.  How  it  used  to  be.  Once  to  say  Hullo,  once  the  real  business,  once  more  for  the  road.  &quot;You  were  a  tiger  in  those  days,  Jacko.  Quite  wore  me  out.  Used  to  take  the  next  day  off.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes,  I  did.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  never.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes,  Jacko,  a  real  tiger.&quot;  She  hadn't  liked  putting  up  her  price,  but  rents  were  rents,  and  it  was  the  space  and  the  time  he  was  paying  for,  no  matter  what  he  wanted  or  didn't  want  to  do.  That  was  one  thing  about  getting  his  senior  citizen's  rail  card-he  could  save  on  the  fare  now.  Not  that  there  was  a  now  anymore.  He'd  seen  the  last  of  [REDACTED].  You  could  get  Stilton  and  salad  spinners  in  Shrewsbury,  for  God's  sake.  The  regimental  dinner  would  increas-  ingly  consist  of  seeing  who  wasn't  there  rather  than  who  was.  As  for  histeeth,  the  local  vet  could  fix  them.  His  packages  were  in  the  rack  above  him.  His  tasks  list  was  a  set  of  ticks.  Pam  would  be  on  her  way  to  the  sta-  tion  by  now,  perhaps  turning  into  the  car  park.  Always  went  nose  first  into  a  parking  slot,  did  Pamela.  Didn't  like  backing,  preferred  to  savethat  for  later,  or,  more  likely,  leave  it  for  him  to  do.  He  was  different.  Preferred  to  back  into  the  slot.  That  way  you  were  ready  for  a  quick  departure.  Just  a  matter  of  training,  he  supposed;  keeping  on  the  qui  vive.  Pamela  used  to  say,  &quot;When  did  we  last  need  to  make  a  quick  de-  parture?  Anyway,  there's  always  a  queue  to  get  out.&quot;  He  used  to  say,  &quot;If  we  got  out  first  there  wouldn't  be  a  queue.&quot;  Queue  E.D.  And  so  on.  He  promised  himself  that  he  wouldn't  look  at  the  wheel  rims  to  see  if  she'd  ground  them  down  some  more.  He  wouldn't  pass  any  remarks  as  he  wound  down  the  window  and  reached  across  to  the  token  thingy.  He  wouldn't  say,  &quot;Look  how  far  the  wheels  are  away  and  I  can  still  reach.&quot;  He'd  just  ask,  &quot;How  are  the  dogs?  Heard  from  the  kids?  Did  they  deliver  the  Super-dug?&quot;  He  was  pleased  that  he  had  done  his  tasks.  As  the  train  approached  the  station,  he  looked  out  of  the  sealed  window,  hoping  to  see  his  wife  waiting  on  the  platform.  