At the  lecture  that  night  they  had  learned  that  human  life  was  expendable.  Melanie  had  sat  there  in  shocked  silence-the  silence  of  guilt,  mortification,  and  paranoia  (what  if  someone  should  see  her  there  in  the  crowd?)-while  Dr.  Toni  Brinsley-  Schneider,  the  Stanford  bioethicist,  in-  formed  them  that  humans,  like  pigs,  chickens,  and  guppies,  were  replace-  able.  In  the  doctor's  view,  the  infirm,  the  mentally  impaired,  criminals,  premature  infants,  and  the  like  were  nonpersons,  whose  burden  society  could  no  longer  be  expected  to  support,  especially  in  light  ofour  breeding  success.  &quot;We're  hardly  an  endangered  species,&quot;  she  said  with  a  grim  laugh.  &quot;Did  you  know,  all  of  you  good  and  earnest  peo-  ple  sitting  here  tonight,  that  we've  just  reached  the  population  threshold  of  six  billion?&quot;  She  was  cocked  back  from  the  lectern  in  a  combative  pose,  her  penuri-  ous  little  silver-rimmed  reading  glasses  flinging  fragments  of  light  out  into  the  audience.  &quot;Do  any  of  you  really  want  more  condominiums,  more  shantytowns  and  favelas,  more  cars  on  the  freeway,  more  group  homes  for  the  physically  handicapped  right  around  the  corner  from  you?  On  your  street?  Next  door?&quot;  She  levelled  her  flashing  gaze  on  them.  &quot;Well,  do  you&quot;&quot;  People  shifted  in  their  seats,  a  muted  moist  surge  of  sound  that  was  like  the  timid  lapping  of  waves  on  a  distant  shore.  No  one  responded:  this  was  a  polite  crowd,  a  liberal  crowd  dedicated  to  free  expression,  a  university  crowd,  and,  be-  sides,  the  question  had  been  posed  for  ef-  fect  only.  They'd  have  their  chance  to  &lt;  draw  blood  during  the  Q.  &amp;  A.  &amp;  Sean  sat  at  attention  beside  Melanie,  3  his  face  shining  and  smug.  He  was  mid-  z  way  through  the  Ph.D.  program  in  liter-  §  ary  theory,  and  the  theoreticians  had  hard-  2Z  ened  his  heart:  Dr.  Brinsley-Schneider  &amp;  was  merely  confirming  what  he  already  &gt;  z  knew.  Melanie  took  his  hand,  but  it  E  wasn't  a  warm  hand,  a  hand  expressive  &lt;  of  comfort  and  love-it  was  more  like  2  something  dug  frozen  from  the  earth.  She  3  hadn't  yet  told  him  what  she'd  learned  at  E  two-thjrty  -three  that  afternoon,  a  secretas  2  maglcal  and  expansive  as  a  loaf  of  bread  7  rising  in  apan.  Another  sort  of  doctor  9  had  brought  her  the  news,  a  doctor  very  z  different  from  the  pinched  and  angry-  3  §  looking  middle-aged  woman  at  the  po-  a2  dium,  a  young  dark-haired  sylph  of  a  E  woman,  almost  a  girl,  with  a  wide  beatific     face  and  congratulatory  eyes,  dressed  all  in  white  like  a  figure  out  of  a  dream.  HEY  walked  to  the  car  in  silence,  the  mist  off  the  ocean  redrawing  the  silhouettes  of  the  trees,  the  street  lightssoftly  glowing.  Sean  wanted  a  burger-and  maybe  a  beer-so  they  stopped  off  at  a  local  bar-and-grill  that  the  students  hadn't  discovered  yet  and  she  watched  him  eat  and  drink  while  the  television  over  the  bar  replayed  im-  ages  of  atrocities  in  the  Balkans,  the  routine  bombing  of  49726171,  and  the  itin-     erary  of  the  railway  killer.  In  between  commercials  for  trucks  that  were  ap-  parently  capable  of  scaling  cliffs  and  fording  rivers,  they  showed  the  killer's  face,  a  mug  shot  of  a  slightly  built  La-  tino  with  an  interrupted  mustache  and  two  dead  eyes  buried  like  artifacts  in  his  head.  &quot;You  see  that?&quot;  Sean  said,  nodding  at  the  screen,  the  half-eaten  burger  clenched  in  one  hand,  the  beer  in  the  other.  &quot;That's  what  Brinsley-Schneider  and  these  peo-  ple  are  talking  about.  You  think  this  guy  worries  much  about  the  sanctity  of  hu-  man  life?&quot;  Can  we  afford  compassion?  Melanie  could  hear  the  lecturer's  droning,thin  voice  in  the  back  of  her  head,  and  she  saw  the  dour,  pale  muffin  of  a  face  frozen  in  the  spotlight  when  somebody  in  the  back  shouted  &quot;Nazi!&quot;  &quot;I  don't     know  why  we  have  to  go  to  these  lec-  tures  anyway,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Last  year's  series  was  so  much  more-do  I  want  to  say  'uplifting'  here?  Remember  the  woman  who'd  written  that  book  about  beekeep-  ing?  And  the  old  professor-what  was  his  name?-who  talked  about  Yeats  and  Maud  Gonne?&quot;  &quot;Stevenson  Elliot  Turner.  He's  emeri-  tus  in  the  English  Department.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;that's  right,  and  why  can't  we  have  more  of  that  sort  of  thing?  Tonight-I  don't  know,  she  was  so  depressing.  And  so  wrong.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  kidding  me?  Turner's  like  the  mummy's  ghost-that  talk  was  stu-  pefying.  He  was  probably  giving  the  same  lecture  in  English  101  thirty  years  ago.  At  least  Brinsley-Schneider's  con-  troversial.  At  least  she  keeps  you  awake.&quot;  Melanie  wasn't  listening,  and  she  didn't  want  to  argue  or  debate  or  dis-  cuss.  She  wanted  to  tell  Sean-who  wasn't  her  husband,  not  yet,  because  they  had  to  wait  till  he  got  his  degree-that  she  was  pregnant.  But  she  couldn't.  She  already  knew  what  he  would  say,  and  it  was  right  on  the  same  page  with  Dr.  Toni  Brinsley-Schneider.  She  watched  his  eyes  settle  on  the  screen  a  moment,  then  drift  down  to  the  burger  in  his  hand.  He  drew  back  his  lips  and  took  a  bite,  nostrils  open  wide,  the  iron  muscles  working  in  his  jaw.  &quot;We  live  by  the  railroad  tracks,&quot;  Melanie  said,  by  way  of  shifting  the  subject.  &quot;You  think  we  have  anything  to  worry  about?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;The  train  killer.&quot;  Sean  gave  her  a  look.  He  was  in  his  debating  mode,  his  put-down  mode,  and  she  could  see  it  in  his  eyes.  &quot;He  doesn't  kill  trains,  Mel,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  kills  peo-  ple.  And,  yes,  everybody  has  something  to  worry  about,  everybody  on  this  planet.  And  if  you  were  listening  to  half  of  what  Brinsley-Schneider  was  saying  tonight,  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  every  third  per-  son  out  there  on  the  street  was  a  serial  killer.  There's  too  many  of  us,  Mel,  let's  face  it.  You  think  things  are  going  to  get  better?  You  think  things  are  better  now  than  when  we  were  kids?&quot;  When  our  par-  ents  were  kids?  It's  over.  Face  it.&quot;  Something  corny  and  ancient  was  on  the  jukebox-Frank  Sinatra,  Tony  Ben-  nett,  somebody  like  that-because  the  place  smacked  of  the  kind  of  authen-  ticity  people  were  looking  for,  the  kind  of  authenticity  that  cried  out  from  the  fallen  arches,  ravaged  faces,  and  sclerotic  85  livers  of  the  regulars,  to  whom  she  and  Sean,  at  twenty-nine  and  thirty,  respec-  tively,  were  as  inauthentic  as  newborns.  At  home,  she  changed  into  a  cotton  nightgown  and  got  into  bed  with  a  book.  She  wasn't  feeling  anything,  not  elation  or  pain  or  disappointment,  only  the  symptoms  of  a  headache  coming  on.  The  book  was  something  she'd  discov-  ered  at  a  yard  sale  two  days  earlier-  &quot;Captured  by  the  Indians:  15  Firsthand  Accounts,  1750-1870&quot;  -and  the  minute  she  opened  it  she  was  swept  up  into  a  voyeuristic  world  of  pain  and  savagery  that  trumped  any  horror  she  could  con-  ceive  of.  It  wasn't  a  good  thing  to  be  cap-  tured  by  the  Indians,  as  Sean  had  snidely  observed  on  seeing  her  poised  behind  the  cover  the  night  before  last,  not  good  at  all.  There  were  no  notions  here  of  the  politically  correct,  of  revisionist  history,  or  of  the  ethics  of  one  people  forcibly  displacing  another:  no,  it  was  the  hot  flash  of  murder  and  reprisal,  the  thump  of  the  musket  ball  hitting  home,  the  operation  of  knife  and  tomahawk  on  unresisting  flesh.  To  die,  to  be  murdered,  to  berobbed  of  your  life  and  conscious-  ness  and  being,  that  was  the  stuff  of  morbid  fascination,  and  she  couldn't  get  enough  of  it.  Sean  was  in  his  underwear,  the  briefs  he  preferred  to  boxers,  the  sort  of  thing  she'd  always  associated  with  boys-lit-  tle  boys,  children,  that  is-and  as  she  watched  him  pad  across  the  carpet  on  his  way  to  the  bathroom  and  his  nightly  ritual  of  cleansing,  clipping,  flossing,  brushing,  tweezing,  and  shaving  it  struck  her  that  she'd  never  in  her  life  been  in  an  intimate  situation  with  a  man-or  boy-  in  boxers.  &quot;The  last  they  heard,&quot;  Sean  was  saying,  and  he  paused  now  to  gaze  at  her  over  the  mound  of  the  bedspread  and  her  tented  knees,  &quot;he  was  in  the  [REDACTED]  someplace-after  leaving  [REDACTED],  I  mean.  That's  a  long  ways  from  Cali-  fornia,  Mel,  and,  besides,  his  whole  thing  is  so  random-&quot;  &quot;He  rides  freight  trains-or  hops  them,  isn't  that  the  terminology?&quot;  she  said,  peering  over  the  cover  of  the  book.  &quot;He  hops  freight  trains,  Sean,  and  that  means  he  could  be  anywhere  in  twenty-  four  hours-or  forty-eight.  How  long  does  it  take  to  drive  from  [REDACTED]  to  Isla  Vista?  Two  days?  Three?&quot;  She  wanted  to  tell  him  about  the  doctor,  and  what  the  doctor  had  said,  and  what  it  was  going  to  mean  for  them,  but  she  didn't  want  to  see  the  look  on  his  face,  didn't     86  want  to  have  to  fight  him,  not  now,  not  yet.  He'd  go  pale  and  tug  involuntarily  at  the  grown-over  hole  in  his  left  ear-  lobe  where  a  big  gold  hoop  had  resided  before  he  got  serious  about  his  life,  and  then  he'd  tell  her  that  she  couldn't  have  her  baby  for  the  same  reason  that  she  couldn't  have  a  dog  or  even  a  cat-at  least  until  he'd  done  his  dissertation,  at  least  until  then.  &quot;I  don't  know,  Mel,&quot;  he  said,  and  all  the  tiredness  and  resignation  in  the  world  crept  into  his  voice,  as  if  a  simple  dis-  cussion  could  martyr  him.  &quot;What  do  you  want  me  to  say?  He's  coming  through  the  window  tonight?  Of  the  two  hundred  and  seventy  million  potential  victims  in  the  country,  he's  singled  us  out,  zeroed  right  in  on  us  like  a  homing  pigeon?&quot;  &quot;Statistics,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  was  sur-  prised  at  her  own  vehemence.  &quot;That's  like  saying  you  have  about  the  same  chance  of  getting  attacked  by  a  shark  as  youdo  of  getting  hit  by  lightning,  and,  yeah,  sure,  but  anybody  anywhere  can  get  hit  by  lightning,  and  how  many  people  live  by  the  ocean,  how  many  actually  go  in  it,  and  of  them  how  many  are  crazy  enough-or  foolhardy,  that's  the  word  I  want  here-how  many  are  foolhardy  enough  to  go  out  where  the  sharks  are?  Probably  a  hundred  per  cent  of  tem:  get  eaten,  and  we  live  right  by  the  tracks,  don't  we?&quot;  As  if  in  answer,  there  was  the  sudden  sharp  blast  of  the  northbound's  whistle  as  it  neared  the  intersection  two  blocks  away,  and  then  the  building  thunder  of  the  train  itself,  the  fierce  clatter  of  the  churning  wheels  and  everything  in  the  room  trembling  with  the  rush  of  it.  Sean  rolled  his  eyes  and  disappeared  into  the  bathroom.  When  the  thunder  subsided  and  he  could  be  heard  again,  he  poked  his  head  round  the  doorframe.  &quot;It's  the  Indians,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  Indi-  ans.&quot;  She  wouldn't  give  him  this,  though  he  was  right,  of  course-or  partially,  anyway.  &quot;It's  Brinsley-Schneider,  who  you  seem  to  think  is  so  great.  Brinsley-  Schneider  and  eugenics  and  euthanasia  and  all  the  rest  of  the  deadly  &quot;u's.&quot;  He  was  smiling  the  smile  of  the  liter-  ary  theorist  in  a  room  full  of  them,  the  smile  that  made  him  look  like  a  toad  with  an  oversized  insect  clamped  in  its  jaws.  &quot;The  deadly  u's?&quot;  he  repeated.  And  then,  softening,  he  said,  &quot;All  right,  if  it'll  make  you  feel  any  better  I'll  check  the  doors  and  windows,  O.K.?&quot;  Her  eyes  were  on  the  book.  Way  off  in  the  night  she  could  hear  the  dying  rattle  of  the  last  car  at  the  end  of  the  train.  Her  life  was  changing,  and  why  couldn't  she  feel  good  about  it-why  shouldn't  she?  He  was  in  the  doorway  still,  his  face  settling  into  the  lines  and  grooves  he'd  dug  for  it  over  the  past  two  and  a  half    years  of  high  seriousness.  He  looked  exactly  like  himself.  &quot;O.K.?&quot;  he  said.  HE  didn't  have  to  be  at  work  until  twelve  the  next  day-she  was  an  assistant  to  the  reference  librarian  at  the  university  library  and  her  schedule  was  so  flexible  it  was  all  but  bent  over  double-and  after  Sean  left  for  class  she  sat  in  front  of  the  TV  with  the  sound  off  and  read  the  account  of  Lavina  Eastlick,  who  was  twenty-nine  and  the  mother  of  five  when  the  Sioux  went  on  a  rampage  near  Acton,  [REDACTED],  in  the  long-forgotten  year  of  1862.  There  was  a  moment's  warning,  no  more  than  that.  A  frightened  neighbor  shouting  in  the  yard,  first  light,  and  suddenly  Lavina  Eastlick-a  housewife,  a  hopeful  young  woman  Melanie's  age  rudely  jolted  from  sleep-was  running  barefoot  through  the  wet  grass,  in  her  nightgown,  a  rifle  clutched  in  her  hand.  The  Indians  soon  overtook  her  and  cut  down  her  husband,  her  children,  her  neighbors,  and  her  neighbors'  children,  taking  the  women  captive.  She'd  been  shot  twice,  and  could  barely  stand,  let  alonewalk.  When  she  stumbled  and  fell,  a  Sioux  brave  beat  her  about  the  head  and  shoulders  with  the  stock  of  his  rifle  and  left  her  for  dead.  Later,  when  they'd  gone,  she  was  able  to  crawl  off  and  hide  in  the  brush  through  the  long  afternoon  and  interminable  night  that  followed.  The  wounded  children-  hers  and  her  neighbors'-lay  sprawled  in  the  grass  behind  her,  crying  out  for  water,  but  she  couldn't  move  to  help  them.  On  the  second  afternoon,  the  In-  dians  returned  to  dig  at  the  children's  wounds  with  sharpened  sticks  until  the  terrible  gargling  cries  choked  off  and  the  locusts  in  the  trees  filled  the  void  with  their  mindless  chant.  And  what  would  Dr.  Toni  Brinsley-  Schneider  have  thought  of  that?  She'd  probably  applaud  the  Indians  for  elimi-  nating  the  useless  and  weak,  who  would  only  have  grown  up  crippled  around  their  shattered  limbs  in  any  case.  That  was  what  Melanie  was  thinking  as  she  closed  the  book  and  glanced  up  at  the  casual  vi-  olence  scrolling  across  the  TV  screen,  but  once  she  was  on  her  feet  she  realized  she  was  hungry  and  headed  off  in  the  direc-  tion  of  the  kitchen,  thinking  tuna  fish  on  rye  with  roasted  sunflower  seeds  and  red  bell  pepper.  She  supposed  she'd  be  putting  on  weight  now,  eating  for  two,  and  wouldn't  that  be  the  way  to  announce  the  baby  to  Sean  six  months  down  the   road,  like  the  prom  mom  who  hid  it  till  the  last  fatal  minute.  And  you  thought  I  was  just  going  to  fat,  didn't  you,  honey?  Outside,  beyond  the  windows,  the  sun  washed  over  the  flowers  in  the  garden,  all  trace  of  the  night's  mist  burned  off.  There  were  juncos  and  finches  at  the  feeder  she  shared  with  the  upstairs  neigh-  bor,  a  dog  asleep  at  the  curb  across  the  street,  pure  white  fortresses  of  cloud  building  over  the  mountains.  It  was  still,  peaceful,  an  ordinary  day,  no  Indians  in  sight,  no  bioethicists,  no  railway  killers  hopping  off  freight  trains  and  selecting  victims  at  random,  and  she  chopped  onions  and  diced  celery  with  a  steady  hand  while  something  inexpressibly  sad  came  over  the  radio,  a  cello  playing  in  a  minor  key,  all  alone,  until  it  was  joined  by  a  single  violin  that  sounded  as  if  a  dead  man  were  playing  it,  playing  his  own  dirge-and  maybe  he  was  dead,  maybe  the  recording  was  fifty  years  old,  she  was  thinking,  and  she  had  a  sudden  image  of  a  man  with  a  long  nose  and  a  Gypsy  face,  serenading  the  prisoners  at  [REDACTED].  Stop  it,  she  told  herself,  just  stop  it.  She  should  be  filled  with  light,  shouldn't  she?  She  should  be  knitting,  baking,  watching  the  children  at  the  playground  with  the  greedy  intensity  of  a  connoisseur.  The  sunflower  seeds  were  in  the  pan,  the  one  with  the  loose  handle  and  the  black  nonstick  surface,  the  heat  turned  up  high,  when  the  doorbell  rang.  The  vi-  olin  died  at  that  moment-literally-and  the  unctuous,  breathless  voice  of  the  an-  nouncer  she  hated  (the  one  who  always  sounded  as  if  hewere  straining  over  a  bowel  movement)  filled  the  apartment  as  she  crossed  the  front  room  and  stepped  into  the  hall.  She  was  about  to  pull  open  the  door-it  would  be  the  mailman  at  this  hour,  offering  up  a  clutch  of  bills  and  junk  mail  and  one  of  Sean's  articles  on  literary  theory  (or  Theory,  as  he  called  it,  &quot;Just  Theory,  with  a  capital  &quot;I,  like  Phi-  losophy  or  Physics&quot;),  returned  from  an  obscure  journal  with  postage  due-but  something  stopped  her.  &quot;Who  is  it?&quot;  she  called  from  behind  the  door,  and  she  could  smell  the  sun-  flower  seeds  roasting  in  the  pan.  Therewas  no  answer,  so  she  moved  to  the  window  beside  the  door  and  parted  the  curtains.  A  man  stood  on  the  concrete  doorstep,  staring  at  the  flat  plane  of  the  door  as  if  he  could  see  through  it.  He  was  small  and  thin,  no  more  than  five-five  or  six,  tanned  to  the  color  of  the  copper  teakettle  on  the  stove  and  dressed  in  the  oily  jeans  and  all-purpose  long-  sleeved  shirt  of  the  bums  who  lined  Ca-  brillo  Boulevard  with  their  Styrofoam  cups  and  pint  bottles-or  should  she  call  them  &quot;panhandlers&quot;  or  &quot;the  homeless&quot;  or  &quot;the  apartmentally  challenged&quot;?  Sean  called  them  bums,  and  she  guessed  she'd  fallen  into  the  habit  herself.  They  said  crude  things  to  you  when  you  walked  down  the  street,  gesturing  with  fingers  that  were  as  black  as  the  stubs  of  cigars.  They  were  bums,  that  was  all,  and  who  needed  them?  But  then  the  man  saw  her  there  at  the  window  and  turned  to  her,  and  she  had  a  shock:  he  was  Hispanic,a  Latino  just  like  the  man  on  TV,  the  killer,  with  the  same  dead  cinders  for  eyes.  He  put  three  fin-  gers  together  and  pushed  them  at  his  open  mouth,  and  she  saw  then  that  he  had  no  mustache-no,  no  mustache,  but  what  did  that  mean?  Anybody  could  shave,  even  a  bum.  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  she  called,  feel-  ing  trapped  in  her  own  apartment,  caught  behind  thewall  of  glass  like  a  fish  in  an  aquarium.  He  looked  surprised  by  the  question.  What  did  hewant?  He  wanted  food,  money,  sex,  booze,  drugs,  her  car,  her  baby,  her  life,  her  apartment.  &quot;Hungry,&quot;  he  said.  And  then,  when  she  didn't  re-  spond,  &quot;You  got  work?&quot;  She  just  shook  her  head-no,  she  didn't  have  any  work,  and  all  the  time  that  she  had  to  give  to  this  man,  this  stranger,  this  bum,  had  already  been  used  up,  because  there  was  smoke  in  the  kitchen  and  the  seeds  were  burning  in  the  pan.  'T  was  past  eight  when  she  drove  home  from  work,  feeling  exhausted,  as  if  she  were  in  her  eighth  month  instead  of  the  second.  The  day  was  softening  into  night,  birds  dive-bombing  the  palms  along  the  boulevard,  joggers  and  in-line  skaters  reduced  to  shadows  on  thepe-  riphery  of  her  vision.  All  through  the  afternoon  the  mist  had  been  rolled  up  like  acarpet  on  the  horizon,  but  it  was  moving  closer  now  and  she  could  smell  it  on  the  air-it  was  going  to  be  another  dense,  compacted  night.  She  parked  and  came  up  the  walk  andsaw  that  the  upstairs  neighbor-Jessica,  Jessica  Something,  who'd  been  there  only  a  month  and  was  so  pathologically  shy  she  cupped  both  hands  to  her  face  when  she  talked  to  you  as  if  a  real  live  moving  mouth  were  somehow  offensive-had  been  doing  something  in  the flower garden.  The  earth  was  raw  in  several  spots,  asif  it  had  been  turned  over,  and  there  was  a  spade  leaning  against  the  side  of  the  house.  Not  that  it  mattered  to  Melanie-she'd  never  had  a  green  thumb  and  plants  were  just  plants  to  her.  If  Jessica  wanted  to  plant  flowers,  that  was  fine;  if  she  wanted  to  dig  them  up,  that  was  fine,  too.  Sean  was  in  the  kitchen,  banging  things  around  and  singing-bellowing-  along  with  one  of  Wagner's  operas,  the  only  music  he  ever  listened  to.  Which  one  was  it?  She'd  heard  them  all  a  thou-  sand  times.  There  it  was,  yes,  Siegfried  going  down  for  the  count:  &quot;Gétterdim-  merung.&quot;  Sean  was  making  his  famous  shrimp-and-avocado  salad  and  he  was  in  the  throes  of  something-Wagner,  The-  ory,  some  sort  of  testosterone  rush-and  he  barely  glanced  up  at  her  as  she  trudged  into  the  bedroom.  Her  mistake  was  in  taking  off  her  shoes-the  flats  she  wore  for  the  sake  of  her  feet  while  propping  up  an  automatic  smile  behind  the  refer-  ence  desk:-because  once  her  shoes  were  off  she  felt  out  of  balance  and  had  to  rest  her  head  on  the  pillow,  just  for  a  minute.  The  gods  of  Valhalla  had  been  laid  to  rest  and  the  house  was  silent  when  she  awoke  to  the  soft  click  of  the  bedroom  door.  Sean  was  standing  there  framed  in  the  doorway,  the  tacky  yellow  globe  of  the  hallway  light  hanging  over  his  shoul-  der  like  a  captive  moon.  It  was  dark  be-  yond  the  windows.  &quot;What?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Are  you  sick  or  something?&quot;  Was  she?  Now  was  her  chance,  now  was  the  time  to  tell  him,  to  share  the  news,  the  joyous  news,  pop  the  cork  on  the  bottle  of  champagne  and  let's  go  out  toa  nice  place,  a  really  nice  place,  and  save  the  famous  shrimp-and-avocado  salad  for  tomorrow.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No.  Just  tired,  that's  all.&quot;  At  dinner-Sean  and  Lacan  and  a  scatter  of  papers,  the  salad,  lemonade  from  the  can,  and  an  incongruous  side  dish  of  ranch-style  barbecue  beans,  also  from  the  can-she  did  tell  him  about  the  man  at  the  door  that  morning.  &quot;He  said  he  wanted  work,&quot;  she  said,  waving  a  fork  ful  of  shrimp  and  beans  in  an  attempt  to  delineate  the  scene  for  the  thirdtime,  &quot;and  I  told  him  I  didn't  have  any  work  for  him.  That  was  it.  The  whole  thing.&quot;  SEAN  had  begun  to  develop  a  groove  just  over  the  bridge  of  his  nose,  a  V-shaped  gouge  that  might  have  been  a  scar  or  the  mark  of  a  hot  branding  iron.  It  vanished  when  he  was  asleep  or  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  27,  1999  sunk  into  the  couch  with  a  beer  and  the  Times,  but  it  was  there  now,  deeper  than  ever.  &quot;You  mean  he  was  Mexican?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  was  a  La-  tino.  I  was  scared.  He  really  scared  me.&quot;  There  was  a  long  silence.  The  clock  her  mother  had  given  her  ticking  dra-  matically  from  atop  the  brick-and-board  bookcase  in  the  hall,  someone's  sprinklers  going  on  outside,  the  muted  rumble  of  Jessica  Something's  TV  seeping  down  through  the  ceiling-Melanie  half  ex-  pected  to  hear  the  blast  of  the  train's  whistle,  but  it  was  too  early  yet.  &quot;It  could  be,&quot;  Sean  said  finally.  &quot;I  mean,  why  not?  You're  right.  The  guy  takes  a  train,  he  could  be  anywhere.  And  then  there's  the  aleatory  factor.&quot;  She  just  stared  at  him.  &quot;Chance.  Luck.  Fate.  You  can't  buck  fate.&quot;  And  then  a  look  came  over  his  face,  two  parts  high  seriousness,  one  part  vigi-  lante.  &quot;But  you  can  be  ready  for  it  when  it  comes-you  can  be  prepared.&quot;  Suddenly  he  wason  his  feet.  &quot;You  just  wait  here,  just  sit  tight,&quot;  and  his  voice  had  an  edge  to  it,  as  if  she'd  been  arguing  with  him,  as  if  she  had  to  be  restrained  from  running  off  into  the  night  like  one  of  the  scream-  ing  teen-agers  ina  cheap  horror  film.  &quot;I'll  be  right  back.&quot;  She  wanted  a  glass  of  wine,  but  she  knew  that  she  couldn't  drink  anymore,  not  if  she  was  going  to  keep  the  baby-  and  if  she  hadn't  known,  thedoctor  had  taken  her  down  a  smiling  anfractuous  road  full  of  caveats  and  prohibitions,  the  sort  of  thing  she,  the  doctor,  must  go  through  ten  times  a  day,  albeit  tailoring  her  tone  to  the  educational  level  of  the  patient.  Outside,  the  sprinklers  switched  off  with  an  expiring  wheeze.  She  could  hear  Sean  in  the  bedroom,  rummaging  around  for  something.  Tonight-she  would  tell  him  tonight.  Because  the  knowledge  was  too  big  for  her  to  contain,  and  she  wanted  to  call  her  mother  and  have  a  long  confidential  chat,  and  call  her  sisters,  too-but  before  that,  before  there  could  beany  possibility  of  that,  she  had  to  tell  Sean,  and  Sean  had  to  say  the  things  she  needed  to  hear.  During  her  five-o'clock  break,  she'd  con-  fided  in  one  of  the  girls  she  worked  with,  Gretchen  Mohr,  but  it  did  nothing  to  re-  assure  her.  Gretchen  was  only  twenty-  three,  in  no  way  serious  about  the  guy  she  was  dating,  and  Melanie  could  tell  from  the  way  she  squeezed  her  eyes  shut  over  the  news  that  the  idea  of  a  baby  was  about  as  welcome  to  her  as  paraplegia  or  -~     CAPTURED  BY  THE  INDIANS  epilepsy.  Oh,  she  tried  to  cover  herself  with  a  flurry  of  congratulations  and  a  non-stop  barrage  of  platitudes  and  one-  liners,  but  the  final  thing  she  said,  her  last  and  deepest  thought,  gave  her  away:  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  she  sighed,  staring  down  into  the  keyhole  of  her  Diet  Coke  can  as  if  she  were  reading  tea  leaves.  &quot;I  just  don't  think  I'd  be  comfortable  bringing  a  baby  into  a  world  like  this.&quot;  When  Melanie  looked  up,  Sean  was  standing  over  her.  He  was  wearing  a  T-shirt  with  a  picture  of  Freud  on  it,  over  a  legend  that  read  &quot;Dr.  Who?&quot;  His  hair  was  slicked  down  and  the  left  side  of  his  face,  up  to  and  encircling  the  ear,  was  inflamed  with  the  skin  condition  he  was  forever  fighting.  But  that  was  ordinary,  that  was  the  way  he  always  looked.  What  was  different  was  his  eyes-proud,  in-  candescent,  lit  up  like  fireworks-and  his  hands,  or  what  was  in  his  hands.  Swaddled  in  coarse  white  cloth  that  was  stained  with  what  might  have  been  olive  oil  lay  an  object  she  recognized  from  the  movies,  from  TV,  and  from  pawnshop  display  cases:  a  gun.  &quot;What  is  that?&quot;  she  said,  edging  away  from  him.  &quot;What  are  you  showing  [REDACTED];  &quot;Come  on,  Mel,  give  me  a  break.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  gun,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;We're  on  the  ground  floor  here,  and  we're  going  to  lock  the  windows  tonight,  even  if  it's  hot,  which  I  doubt  because  the  fog's  already  coming  in,  and  we're  going  to  keep  this  by  the  bed,  on  the  night  table,  that's  all.&quot;  She'd  drawn  up  her  legs  and  hugged  them  to  her,  as  far  away  from  him  on  the  couch  as  she  could  manage  to  be.  &quot;I  don't  believe  you,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  could  hear  the  thin  whine  of  complaint  in  her  own  voice.  &quot;You  know  what  my  father  would  say  if  he  saw  you  now?  Where  did  you  get  it?  Why  didn't  you  tell  [REDACTED];  she  de-  manded,and  she  couldn't  help  herself-  her  voice  broke  on  the  final  syllable.  He  drew  the  thing  back,  took  it  from  its  cradle  and  raised  it  up  in  one  hand  until  it  grazed  the  ceiling.  The  muscles  of  his  forearm  flexed,  the  soiled  rag  dropped  to  the  carpet.  &quot;Son  of  a  bitch,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Son  of  a  fucking  bitch.  Tell  me  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Would  you  rather  be  the  killer  orthe  killee?&quot;  HE  was  asleep  and  dreaming  the  image  of  a  baby  floating  in  amni-  otic  fluid,  the  cord  attached,  eyes  shut  tight-a  big  baby,  an  enormous  glow-  ing  baby  floating  free  like  the  interstel-  lar  embryo  of  ©2001&quot;-when  a  sudden  sharp  explosion  jolted  her  awake.  It  took  her  a  moment,  heart  pounding;  breath  coming  quick,  to  understand  what  it  was-it  was  a  scream,  a  wom-  an's  scream,  improvised  and  fierce.  The  room  was  dark.  Sean  was  asleep  beside  her.  The  scream-a  single  rising  note  trailing  off  into  what  might  have  been  asob  or  a  gasp-seemed  to  have  come  from  above,  where  Jessica  Something  lived  alone  with  her  potted  plants  and  two  bloated,  pampered,  push-faced  cats  that  were  never  allowed  out  of  the  apart-  ment  for  fear  of  the  world  and  its  mul-  tiple  dangers.  Melanie  sat  up  and  caught  her  breath.  Nothing.  The  alarm  clock  on  the  night  table  flashed  1:59  and  then  2:00.  Earlier,  after  a  dessert  of  tapioca  pud-  ding  with  mandarin-orange  slices  fresh  from  the  can,  she  and  Sean  had  watched  a  costume  drama  on  the  public  station  that  gave  her  a  new  appreciation  for  the  term  mediocre  (mediocre,  as  she  ob-  served  to  Sean,  didn't  come  easy-you  had  to  work  at  it),  and  then  she'd  slipped  into  bed  with  her  book  while  the  station  went  into  pledge-break  mode  and  Sean  sat  there  paralyzed  on  the  couch.  She  hadn't  read  two  paragraphs  before  he  tiptoed  into  the  room,  naked  and  in  full  amatory  display.  She  left  the  light  on,  the  better  to  admire  him,  but  the  book  dropped  to  the  floor,  and  then  it  didn't  matter.  She  felt  new,  re-created.  His  body  was  so  familiar,  but  everything  was  dif-  ferent  now.  She'd  never  been  so  aroused,  rising  up  again  and  again  to  hold  him  deep  inside  her  in  the  place  where  the  baby  was.  Afterward,  immediately  after-  ward,  almost  as  if  he'd  been  drugged,  he  fell  asleep  with  his  head  on  her  breast,  and  it  was  left  to  her  to  reach  up  awk-  |  wardly  and  kill  the  lamp.  They  hadn't  }  discussed  a  thing.  But  now-now  there  was  chaos,  and  it  erupted  all  at  once.  There  was  a  thump  overhead,  the  caustic  burn  of  a  man's  voice,  and  then  another  scream,  and  another,  and  Melanie  was  out  of  bed,  the  walls  pale  and  vague,  the  dark  shadow  that  was  Sean  lurching  up  me-  chanically,  and  &quot;What?&quot;  he  was  saying.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Footsteps  on  the  stairs.  More  screams.  Melanie  flicked  on  the  light  and  there  was  Sean,  dressed  only  in  his  briefs,  the  long  muscles  of  his  legs,  all  that  skin,  and  |  the  gun  in  his  hand,  the  pistol,  the  nasty  |  gleaming  black  little  thing  he'd  bought  at  a  gun  show  six  months  ago  and  never  bothered  to  tell  her  about.  &quot;Sean,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Sean,  don't!&quot;  But  he  was  already  out  the  door,  racing  down  the  hall  in  the  sick  yellow  wash  of  the  overhead  light,  already  at  the  front  door,  the  screams  from  above  rising,rising.  She  was  in  her  nightgown,  barefoot,  but  she  had  no  thought  for  any-  thing  but  to  get  out  that  door  and  put  an  end  to  whatever  this  was.  There  was  a  street  light  out  front  but  the  fog  had  cupped  a  hand  over  it  and  blotted  the  light  from  the  windows  and  the  stairway,  too.  Melanie  shot  a  glance  up  the  stairs  to  where  Jessica  stood,  brac-  ing  herself  against  the  railing,  in  nothing  but  panties  and  a  brassiere  torn  off  one  shoulder,  and  then  she  saw  the  glint  of  Sean's  back  across  the  lawn,  where  the  cars  threw  up  a  bank  of  shadow  against  the  curb.  He  was  shouting  something-  ragged,  angry  syllables  that  would  have  made  no  sense  to  anyone,  not  even  a  Theorist-and  she  saw  then  that  there  was  somebody  else  there  with  him,  a  dark  shifting  figure  rallying  round  a  shuffle  of  feet  on  the  pavement.  She  was  closer  now,  running,  Sean's  feet  glowing  in  the  night,  the  long  white  stalks  of  his  legs  and  ex-  panse  of  his  back-he  seemed  to  be  wrestling  with  a  shadow,  but,  no,  it  was  an  animate  thing,  a  man,  a  dark  little  man  in  bum's  clothes  with  a  shovel  clenched  in  both  hands  and  Sean  fighting  him  for  it.  Where  was  the  gun?  There  was  no  gun.  Both  of  Sean's  hands  were  on  the  shovel  and  both  of  the  little  man's,  and  now  Jes-  sica  was  screaming  again.  &quot;The  gun,&quot;  Sean  said.  &quot;In  the  grass.  Get  the  gun.&quot;  In  that  moment,  the  little  man  man-  aged  to  wrench  the  shovel  free,  and  in  the  next-it  happened  so  quickly  that  she  wasn't  sure  she  actually  saw  it-he  caught  Sean  under  the  chin  with  the  haft,  and  then  the  blade,  and  Sean  was  on  the  ground.  She  never  hesitated.  Before  the  man  could  bring  the  blade  down-and  that  was  what  he  meant  to  do,  no  mis-  take  about  it,  his  arms  already  raised  high  fora  savage  stabbing  thrust-she  took  hold  of  the  haft  with  all  the  strength  in  her  and  pulled  it  tight  to  her  chest.  She  could  smell  him.  She  could  feel  him.  He  hung  on,  the  little  man,  the  bum,  the  one  who'd  been  on  the  doorstep  that  afternoon  with  his  reeking  breath  and  greasy  clothes,  and  then  he  jerked  so  violently  at  the  shovel  that  she  almost  pitched  headlong  into  him,  into  the  spill  of  his  flesh  and  the  dankness  of  the  grass.  But  she  didn't.  She  jerked  back,  and  Jes-  sica  screamed,  and  Sean,  reeling  like  a  drunk,  began  to  pick  himself  up  off  the  lawn,  and  for  the  instant  before  the  man  let  go  of  the  shovel  and  flung  himself  into  the  shadows  across  the  street,  she  was  staring  him  full  in  the  face-yes,  but  she  wasn't  seeing  the  man  on  the  TV  or  the  man  on  the  porch  or  any  oneof  the  army  of  bums  lined  up  along  the  street  in  their  all-purpose  shirts  and  sweat-stained  caps,  she  was  seeing  Dr.  Toni  Brinsley-  Schneider,  Dr.  Brinsley-Schneider  the  bioethicist,  just  her.  THERE  were  two  policemen.  From  where  she  was  sitting  at  the  end  of  the  couch,  Melanie  could  see  their  cruiser  reined  in  at  the  curb,  the  interior  a  black  pit,  the  slowly  revolving  light  on  top  chopping  up  the  night  over  and  over  again.  They  were  built  like  run-  ners  or  squash  players,  both  of  them-  crisp,  efficient  men  in  their  thirties,  who  looked  away  from  her  bare  legs  and  feet  and  into  her  eyes.  &quot;So  you  heard  screams,  and  this  was  about  what  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  They'd  already  taken  Jessica  Some-  thing's  statement-Jessica  Fortgang,  she  had  a  name  now:  Ms.  Fortgang,  as  the  policemen  referred  to  her-and  Sean,  hunched  in  the  armchair  with  an  angry  red  welt  under  his  chin,  had  given  his  version  of  events,  too.  The  man  in  the  night,  the  bum,  the  one  who'd  been  the  cause  of  all  this,  had  escaped,  at  least  for  the  time  being,  and  they  were  denied  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  him  handcuffed  in  the  back  of  the  cruiser,  bowed  and  con-  trite.  Sean  had  been  in  a  state  when  the  police  arrived,  clenching  his  jaws  as  if  he  were  biting  down  hard  on  something,  gesturing  with  a  closed  fist  and  wide  sweeps  of  his  arm.  &quot;The  railway  killer,  it  was  him,  the  railway  killer,&quot;  he  kept  re-  peating,  until  the  policeman  with  the  mustache,  the  taller  one,  told  him  that  the  railway  killer  had  turned  himself  in  at  the  Mexican  border  some  fifteen  hours  earlier.  &quot;That  was  the  [REDACTED]  border,&quot;  he  added,  and  then  his  partner,  in  a  flat,  pro-  fessional  voice,  said  that  they  were  treat-  ing  thisas  an  assault,  in  any  case,  possibly  an  attempted  rape.  &quot;Your  neighbor,  Ms.  Fortgang?  She  apparently  hired  this  indi-  vidual  to  do  some  yard  work  thisafter-     noon,  and  then  invited  him  in  for  iced  tea  and  a  sandwich  when  he  was  done.  Then  he  comes  back  at  night-and  this  is  a  cultural  thing,  you  understand,  a  woman  looks  at  one  of  these  guys  twice  and  he  expects  a  whole  lot  more.  He's  a  transient,  that's  all,  nobody  from  around  here.  But  we'll  get  him.&quot;  Melanie  answered  their  questions  pa-  tiently,  though  her  heart  was  still  jumping  in  her  chest  and  she  kept  glancing  at  Sean,  as  if  for  guidance.  But  Sean  was  sullen,  distant,  withdrawn  into  some  cor-  ner  of  himself-the  gun  was  an  embar-  rassment,  the  man  had  knocked  him  down,  he'd  been  involved  in  an  ordinary  altercation  withan  ordinary  bum,  and  the  railway  killer  had  already  given  himself  up.  Shesaw  the  lines  in  his  face,  saw  the  way  his  lower  lip  pushed  his  chin  down  into  the  soft  flesh  beneath  it.  Theory  couldn't  help  here.  Theory  deconstructs.  Theory  has  no  purpose,  no  point,  no  overview  or  consolation-it  was  a  kind  of  intellectual  masturbation.  If  she  hadn't  known  it  before,  she  knew  it  now.  The  police  thanked  them,  tried  on  the  briefest  of  smiles,  and  then  Sean  showed  them  to  the  door,  and  Melanie  got  up  from  the  couch  with  the  vague  idea  of  making  herself  a  cup  of  herbal  tea  to  help  her  unwind.  Just  as  the  door  closed,  she  called  out  Sean's  name,  and  she  almost  said  it,  almost  said,  &quot;Sean,  there's  some-  thing  I've  been  wanting  to  tell  you.&quot;  But  there  was  no  use  in  that  now.  Sean  turned  away  from  the  door,  his  shoulders  slumped,  the  corners  of  his  mouth  drawn  down.  After  the  skirmish  on  the  lawn,  he'd  shrugged  intoa  pair  of  jeans  and  the  first  shirt  he  could  find-a  Hawaiian  print,  festive  with  palm  fronds  and  miniature  pineapples-and  she  saw  thathe'd  misbuttoned  it.  He  looked  hope-  less.  He  looked  lost  in  his  own  living  room.  She  held  that  picture  of  him,  and  then  she  was  thinking,  unaccountably,  of  a  captive  of  the  Sioux,  a  young  woman  taken  from  her  husband  to  be  bride  to  a  chief,  the  business  settled  in  the  smoke  and  confusion  of  a  desperate  fight,  her  daughter  crying  out  over  the  cacophony  of  shouts  and  curses  and  the  rolling  thunder  of  a  hundred  rifles  firingat  once.  Months  later,  fleeing  with  her  captors  after  a  loss  in  battle,  she  watched  a  brave  from  another  party  come  up  to  them  on  his  pony,  in  full  regalia,  trailing  the  shawl  she'd  knitted  for  her  daughter  and  a  tiny  shrunken  scalp  with  the  hair-  the  blond  shining  hair-still  attached. 