ODD  that  mankind's  benefactors  should  be  amusing  people.  In  [REDACTED],  at  least,  this  is  often  the  case.  Anyone  who  wants  to  gov-  ern  the  country  has  to  entertain  it.  Dur-  ing  the  Civil  War,  people  complained  about  Lincoln's  funny  stories.  Perhaps  he  sensed  that  strict  seriousness  was  far  more  dangerous  than  any  joke.  But  peo-  ple  said  that  he  was  frivolous,  and  his  own  Secretary  of  War  referred  to  him  as  a  baboon.  Among  the  debunkers  and  spoofers  who  formed  the  tastes  and  minds  of  my  generation,  H.  L.  Mencken  was  the  most  prominent.  My  high-school  friends,  readers  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Mercury,  were  up  on  the  Scopes  trial  as  Mencken  reported  it.  Mencken  was  very  hard  on  William  Jennings  Bryan  and  the  Bible  Belt  and  Boobus  556e6974656420537461746573nus.  To  Clar-  ence  Darrow  and  Mencken,  Bryan  the  Special  Creationist  was  a  doomed  Farm  Belt  absurdity.  In  the  language  of  evolu-  tionary  theory,  Bryan  was  a  dead  branch  of  the  life  tree.  His  views  were  subjected  to  extreme  ridicule  at  the  trial,  and  Bryan  went  the  way  of  the  pterodactyl-the  clumsy  version  of  an  idea  that  later  succeeded,  the  gliding  reptiles  be-  coming  warm-blooded  birds  that  flew  and  sang.  I  filled  up  a  scribbler  with  quotes  from  Mencken  and  added  later  notes  from  spoofers  or  self-spoofers  like  W.  C.  Fields  and  Charlie  Chaplin,  Mae  [REDACTED],  Huey  Long,  and  Senator  Dirk-  sen.  There  was  even  a  page  on  Machi-  avelli's  sense  of  humor.  But  I  don't  in-  tend  to  involve  you  in  my  speculations  on  wit  and  self-irony  in  democratic  so-  cieties.  Not  to  worry.  I'm  glad  my  old  scribbler  has  disappeared.  I  have  no  wish  tosee  it  again.  It  has  surfaced  here  briefly  as  a  sort  of  extended  footnote.  I  have  always  had  a  weakness  for  footnotes.  For  me,  a  clever  or  a  wicked  footnote  has  redeemed  many  a  text.  And  I  see  that  I  amnow  using  a  long  foot-  note  to  open  a  serious  subject,  shifting  in  a  quick  move  to  [REDACTED],  to  a  penthouse  in  the  Hotel  de  Crillon.  Early  June.  Break-  fast  time.  The  host  is  my  good  friend  Professor  Ravelstein,  Abe  Ravelstein.  My  wife,  Rosamund,  and  I,  also  staying  at  the  Crillon,  have  a  room  below,  on  the  sixth  floor.  She  is  still  asleep.  The  entire  fifth  floor  (this  is  not  absolutely   relevant,  but  somehow  I  can't  avoid  mentioning  it)  is  occupied  just  now  by  Michael  Jackson  and  his  entourage.  He  performs  nightly  in  some  vast  Pari-  sian  auditorium.  Very  soon  his  French  groupies  will  arrive  outside  and  a  crowd  of  faces  will  be  turned  upward,  shouting  in  unison,  &quot;Mic-ke/l  Jack-sown.&quot;  A  police  barrier  holds  the  fans  back.  Inside,  when  you  look  down  the  marble  stairwell  from  the  sixth  floor,  you  see  Michael's  body-  guards.  One  of  them  is  doing  the  cross-  word  puzzle  in  the  Herald  Tribune.  &quot;Terrific,  isn't  it,  having  this  pop  cir-  cus?&quot;  said  Ravelstein.  The  Professor  was  very  happy  this  morning.  He  had  leaned  on  the  manage-  ment  to  put  him  into  this  coveted  suite.  To  be  in  [REDACTED]-at  the  Crillon.  To  be  here,  for  once,  with  plenty  of  money.  No  more  of  the  funky  rooms  at  the  Dragon  Volant,  or  whatever  they  called  it,  on  the  Rue  du  Dragon;  or  in  the  Hotel  de  Académie,  on  the  Rue  des  Saints-Péres,  facing  the  medical  college.  Hotels  don't  come  any  grander  or  more  luxurious  than  the  Cril-  lon,  where  the  top  556e6974656420537461746573n  brass  were  quartered  during  the  First  World  War.     &quot;Great,  isn't  it?&quot;  said  Ravelstein,  with  one  of  his  rapid  gestures.  I  confirmed  that  it  was.  We  had  the  center  of  [REDACTED]  right  below  us-the  Place  de  la  Concorde  with  the  obelisk,  the  Orangerie,  the  Chambre  des  Dépu-  tes,  the  Seine  with  its  pompous  bridges,  palaces,  gardens.  Of  course  these  were  great  things  to  see,  but  they  were  greater  today  for  being  shown  by  Ravelstein,  who  only  last  year  had  been  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  debt.  Maybe  more.  He  used  to  joke  with  me  about  his  &quot;sinking  fund.&quot;  He  would  say,  &quot;I'm  sinking  with  it-  do  you  know  what  the  term  means  in  financial  circles,  Chick?&quot;  Ravelstein  was  one  of  those  large  men-large,  not  stout-whose  hands  shake  when  there  are  small  chores  to  perform,  not  from  weakness  but  from  a  tremendous  eager  energy  that  shakes  them  as  it  is  discharged.  Nobody  in  the  days  before  he  struck  it  rich  had  ever  questioned  his  need  for  Armani  suits  or  Vuitton  luggage,  for  Cuban  cigars,  un-  obtainable  in  the  [REDACTED],  for  Dunhill  accessories,  for  solid-gold  Mont  Blane  97  pens  or  Baccarat  or  Cristal  Lalique  to  serve  wine-or  to  have  it  served-in.  Well,  his  friends,  pupils,  and  admir-  ers  no  longer  had  to  ante  up  in  support  of  his  luxurious  habits.  He  was  now  very  rich.  He  had  gone  public  with  his  ideas.  He  had  written  a  book-difficult  but  popular-a  spirited,  intelligent,  warlike  book,  and  it  had  sold  and  was  still  selling  in  both  hemispheres  and  on  both  sides  of  the  equator.  The  thing  had  been  done  quickly  but  in  real  earnest:  no  cheap  concessions,  no  popularizing,  no  mental  monkey  business,  no  apolo-  getics,  no  patrician  airs.  He  had  every  right  to  look  as  he  looked  now,  while  the  waiter  set  up  our  breakfast.  His  in-  tellect  had  made  a  millionaire  of  him.  It's  no  small  matter  to  become  rich  and  famous  by  saying  exactly  what  you  think-saying  it  in  your  own  words,  without  compromise.  This  morning,  Ravelstein  was  wear-  ing  a  blue-and-white  kimono.  It  had  been  presented  to  him  in  4a6170616e  when  he  lectured  there  last  year.  He  had  been  asked  what  would  particularly  please  him,  and  he  said  that  he  would  like  a  kimono.  This  one,  fit  for  a  shogun,  must  have  been  a  special  order.  He  was  very  tall.  He  was  not  particularly  graceful.  The  great  garment  was  loosely  belted  and  more  than  half  open.  His  legs  were  unusually  long,  not  shapely.  His  under-  pants  were  not  securely  pulled  up.  &quot;The  waiter  tells  me  that  Michael  Jackson  won't  eat  the  Crillon's  food,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;His  cook  flies  everywhere  with  him  in  the  private  jet.  Anyhow,  the  Crillon  chef's  nose  is  out  of  joint.  His  cookery  was  good  enough  for  Richard  Nixon  and  Henry  Kissinger,  he  says,  and  also  a  whole  slew  of  shahs,  kings,  generals,  and  prime  ministers.  But  this  little  glamour  monkey  refuses  it.  Isn't  there  something  in  the  Bible  about  crippled  kings  living  under  the  tables  of  their  conquerors-feeding  on  what  falls  to  the  floor?&quot;  &quot;I  think  there  is.  I  recall  that  their  thumbs  had  been  cut  off.  But  what's  that  got  to  do  with  the  Crillon  or  Mi-  chael  Jackson?&quot;  Abe  laughed  and  said  he  wasn't  sure.  It  was  only  something  that  went  through  his  head.  Up  here,  the  treble  voices  of  the  fans,  4672616e6365ian  adolescents-boys  and  girls  shouting  in  unison-were  added  to  the  noises  of  buses,  trucks,  and  taxis.  This  show  was  our  background.  We  98  were  having  a  good  time  over  our  cof-  fee.  Ravelstein  was  in  high  spirits.  Never-  theless,  we  kept  our  voices  low,  because  Nikki,  Abe's  companion,  was  still  sleep-  ing.  It  was  Nikki's  habit,  back  in  the  [REDACTED],  to  watch  kung-fu  films  from  his  native  [REDACTED]  until  four  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Here,  too,  he  was  up  most  of  the  night.  The  waiter  had  rolled  the  sliding  doors  shut  so  that  Nikki's  silken  sleep  should  not  be  disturbed.  I  glanced  through  the  window  from  time  to  time  at  his  round  arms  and  the  long  shifting  layers  of  black  hair  reaching  his  glossy  shoulders.  In  his  early  thirties,  hand-  some  Nikki  was  boyish  still.  The  waiter  had  entered  with  wild  strawberries,  brioches,  jam  jars,  and  small  pots  of  what  I  had  been  brought  up  to  call  hotel  silver.  Ravelstein  scrib-  bled  his  name  wildly  on  the  check  while  bringing  a  bun  to  his  mouth.  When  he  was  feeding  and  speaking  he  made  you  feel  that  something  biological  was  going  on,  that  he  was  stoking  his  system  and  nourishing  his  ideas.  THIS  morning  he  was  once  again  urging  me  to  take  an  interest  &quot;in  public  life,  in  politics.&quot;  He  had  wanted  me  to  try  my  hand  at  biography,  and  I  had  agreed  to  do  it.  At  his  request,  I  had  written  a  short  account  of  J.  M.  Keynes.  Keynes,  the  powerful  economist-  statesman  whom  everybody  knows  for  his  1919  &quot;Economic  Consequences  of  the  Peace,&quot;  sent  letters  and  memoran-  dums  to  his  Bloomsbury  friends  report-  ing  on  his  postwar  experiences,  in  par-  ticular  the  reparations  debates  between  the  defeated  Germans  and  theAllied  leaders-Clemenceau,  Lloyd  George,  and  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  For  reasons  of  his  own,  Ravelstein  best  remembered  the  passages  describing  the  German  bank-  ers'  inability  to  meet  the  demands  of  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  The  French  were  after  the  Kaiser's  gold  reserves.  The  En-  glish  said  they  would  settle  for  hard  cur-  rency.  One  of  the  French  negotiators  was  a  Jew.  Lloyd  George,  losing  his  temper,  turned  on  this  man:  he  did  an  astonishing  kike  number  on  him,  crouching,  hunching,  limping,  spitting,  zizzing  his  esses,  sticking  out  his  back-  side,  doing  a  splayfoot  parody  of  a  Jew-  walk.  All  this  was  described  by  Keynes  to  his  Bloomsbury  friends.  Ravelstein  didn't  think  well  of  the  Bloomsbury  in-  tellectuals.  He  disliked  their  high  camp;  he  disapproved  of  queer  antics  and  of  what  he  called  &quot;faggot  behavior.&quot;  He  couldn't  and  didn't  fault  them  for  gos-  siping.  He  himself  loved  gossip  too  well  to  do  that.  But  he  said  that  they  were  snobs,  not  thinkers,  and  that  their  influ-  ence  was  pernicious.  The  spies  later  re-  cruited  by  the  G.P.U.  or  the  NKVD.  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  thirties  were  nurtured  by  Bloomsbury.  Ravelstein  thought  I  had  a  rhetori-  cal  problem.  I  said  that  too  much  em-  phasis  on  the  literal  facts  narrowed  the  wider  interest  of  the  enterprise.  &quot;I  wouldn't  dream  of  meddling,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  think  you'd  agreethat  I'm  trying  to  do  you  some  good.&quot;  Of  course  I  understood  his  motive.  He  thought  I  was  stuck  in  privacy  and  should  be  restored  to  community.  &quot;Too  many  years  of  inwardness!&quot;  he  used  to  say.  I  badly  needed  to  be  in  touch  with  politics-not  local  or  machine  politics,  or  even  national  politics,  but  politics  as  Aristotle  or  Plato  understood  the  term,  rooted  in  our  nature.  You  can't  turn  your  back  on  your  nature.  I  admitted  to  Rav-  elstein  that  reading  those  Keynes  docu-  ments  and  writing  the  piece  had  been  something  like  a  holiday.  Rejoining  hu-  mankind,  taking  a  humanity  bath.  There  are  times  when  I  need  to  ride  in  the  subway  at  rush  hour  or  sit  in  a  crowded  movie  house-that's  what  I  mean  by  a  humanity  bath.  As  cattle  must  have  salt  to  lick  I  sometimes  crave  physical  contact.  &quot;And  what  about  the  Jewish  side  of  the  thing?&quot;  Ravelstein  asked.  &quot;Keynes  didn't  like  it  much.  You  may  remember  that  the  only  friendship  he  made  at  the  peace  conference  was  with  the  Jewish  member  of  the  French  delegation.&quot;  &quot;No,  they  wouldn't  really  have  cared  for  a  man  as  common  as  Lloyd  George,  those  Bloomsburies.&quot;  But  Ravelstein  knew  the  value  of  a  set.  He  had  a  set  of  his  own.  Its  mem-  bers  were  students  he  had  trained  in  po-     THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  1,  1999  litical  philosophy  and  longtime  friends.  It  was  very  pleasant  to  win  Ravelstein's  approval  and  his  old  students  kept  com-  ing  back  to  him.  Some  of  them  now  held  positions  of  importance  on  na-  tional  newspapers.  Quite  a  number  served  in  the  State  Department.  Some  lectured  in  the  War  College  or  worked  on  the  staff  of  the  national-security  ad-  viser.  One  was  aprotégé  of  Paul  Nitze.  Another,  a  maverick,  published  a  col-  umn  in  the  Washington  Times.  Some  were  influential,  all  were  well  informed;  they  were  a  close  group,  a  community.  From  his  disciples  Ravelstein  had  fre-  quent  reports,  and  when  he  was  at  home  he  spent  hours  on  the  phone  with  them.  He  kept  their  secrets,  more  or  less.  At  least  he  didn't  quote  them  by  name.  Even  in  the  Crillon  penthouse  today  the  mobile  telephone  was  held  between  his  bare  knees.  The  4a6170616eese  kimono  fell  away  from  legs  paler  than  milk.  He  had  the  calves  of  a  sedentary  man-the  shin-  bone  long  and  the  calf  muscle  abrupt,  without  roundness.  Some  years  back,  after  his  heart  attack,  the  doctors  told  him  that  he  had  to  exercise,  so  he  bought  an  expensive  sweatsuit  and  elegant  gym  shoes.  He  shuffled  around  the  track  for  several  days  and  then  gave  it  up.  Fitness  was  not  his  cup  of  tea.  He  treated  his  body  like  a  vehicle-a  motorbike  that  he  ran  at  top  speed  along  the  rim  of  the  Grand  [REDACTED].  &quot;I'm  not  too  surprised  at  Lloyd  George,&quot;  Ravelstein  said.  &quot;He  was  a  contentious  little  fucker.  He  visited  Hitler  in  the  thir-  ties  and  came  away  with  a  high  opinion  of  him.  Hitler  was  a  dream  to  political  leaders.  Whatever  he  wanted  done  was  done,  and  quickly.  No  muss,  no  fuss.  Very  different  from  parliamentary  gov-  ernment.&quot;  It  was  enjoyable  to  hear  Rav-  elstein  on  what  he  called  &quot;Great  Politics.&quot;  He  speculated  often  on  Roosevelt  and  Churchill.  He  had  a  great  respect  for  de  Gaulle.  From  time  to  time  he  got  carried  away.  Today,  for  instance,  he  spoke  of  Lloyd  George's  &quot;pungency.&quot;  &quot;Pungency  is  good,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Inthe  matter  of  language  the  Brits  had  it  all  over  us.  Especially  when  their  strength  began  to  bleed  away  and  lan-  guage  became  one  of  their  important  resources.&quot;  &quot;Like  Hamlet's  whore  who  must  unpack  her  heart  with  words.&quot;  Ravelstein  with  his  bald  power-  RAVELSTEIN  ful  head  was  at  ease  with  large  state-  ments  and  big  issues,  with  decades,  eras,  centuries.  He  was  very  pleased  with  my  Keynes  sketch.  “THERE’S  something  in  the  way  you  tell  a  story  that  gets  to  me,  Chick,&quot;  Ravelstein  would  say.  &quot;I'd  like  you  to  write  me  up,  after  I'm  gone.  You  could  do  a  really  fine  memoir.  It's  not  just  a  request,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;I'm  laying  this  on  you  as  an  obligation.  Do  it  in  your  after-supper-reminiscence  manner,  when  you've  had  a  few  glasses  of  wine  and  you're  laid  back  and  making  re-  marks.  ...I  want  you  to  do  me  as  you  did  Keynes,  but  on  a  bigger  scale.  And  also  you  were  too  kind  to  him.  I  don't  want  that.  Be  as  tough  as  you  like.  You  aren't  the  darling  doll  you  seem  to  be,  and  by  describing  me  maybe  you'll  emancipate  yourself.&quot;  &quot;From  what,  exactly?&quot;  &quot;Whatever  it  is  that  controls  you-  some  sword  of  Damocles  hanging  over  you.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  the  sword  of  Dimwitocles.&quot;  &quot;Dimwitocles&quot;  was  Ravelstein's  kind  of  gag,  and  he  laughed  like  Picasso's  wounded  horse  in  &quot;Guernica,&quot;  rearing  back.  Ravelstein's  legacy  to  me  was  a  sub-  ject-perhaps  the  best  one  I  had  ever  had,  perhaps  the  only  really  important  one.  But  such  a  legacy  signified  that  he  would  die  before  me.  If  I  were  to  pre-  decease  him  he  would  certainly  not  write  a  memoir  of  me.  Anything  be-  yond  a  single  page  to  be  read  at  a  memorial  service  would  have  been  un-  thinkable.  Although  I  was  twenty  years  his  senior,  we  were  close  friends,  none  closer.  There  were  sophomoric  ele-  ments  in  my  character  as  there  were  in  his,  and  these  levelled  the  ground  and  evened  things  up.  What  we  were  laugh-  ing  about  was  death,  and,  of  course,  death  does  sharpen  the  comic  sense.  But  the  fact  that  we  laughed  together  didn't  mean  that  we  were  laughing  for  the  same  reasons.  That  Ravelstein's  most  serious  ideas,  put  into  his  book,  had  made  him  amillionaire  certainly  was  funny.  It  took  the  genius  of  capital-  ism  to  make  a  valuable  commodity  out  of  thoughts,  opinions,  zeachings.  Bear  in  mind  that  Ravelstein  was  a  teacher.  He  was  not  one  of  those  conservatives  who  idolize  the  free  market.  He  had  views  of  his  own  on  political  and  moral  mat-  ters.  Put  together  in  a  book  his  ideas  made  him  absurdly  rich.  He  was  spend-  ing  the  dollars  almost  as  fast  as  they  came  in.  Just  now  he  was  considering  a  new,  five-million-dollar  book  con-  tract.  He  could  command  big  fees  on  the  lecture  circuit.  And  he  was  a  learned  man,  after  all.  Nobody  disputed  that.  You  have  to  be  learned  to  capture  mo-  dernity  in  its  full  complexity  and  to  assess  its  human  cost.  On  social  oc-  casions  he  might  be  freaky  but  on  the  platform  you  could  see  how  well  grounded  his  arguments  were.  It  be-  came  only  too  clear  what  he  was  talk-  ing  about.  The  public  saw  higher  edu-  cation  as  a  right.  The  White  House  affirmed  it.  Students  were  like  &quot;the  mackerel-crowded  seas.&quot;  Thirty  thou-  sand  dollars  was  the  average  annual  college  tuition.  But  what  were  students  learning?  The  universities  were  permis-  sive,  lax.  The  discipline  of  an  earlier  time  was  gone.  Relativism  held  that  what  was  right  in  Santo  Domingo  was  wrong  in  Pago  Pago  and  that  moral  standards  were  therefore  anything  but  absolute.  Now,  Ravelstein  was  no  enemy  of  pleasure  or  of  love.  On  the  contrary  he  saw  love  as  possibly  the  highest  blessing  of  mankind.  I  don't  intend  to  explain  here  the  erotic  teachings  of  Aristoph-  anes  and  Socrates  or  of  the  Bible.  For  that,  you  must  go  to  Ravelstein  himself.  For  him,  Jerusalem  and  Athens  were  the  twin  sources  of  civilization.  Jerusa-  lem  and  Athens  are  not  my  dish.  I  was  too  old  to  become  Ravelstein's  disciple.  All  I  need  to  say  now  is  that  he  was  taken  very  seriously  even  in  the  White  House  and  on  Downing  Street.  He  was  Mrs.  Thatcher's  guest  at  Chequers.  Reagan  invited  him  to  dinner,  and  Rav-  elstein  spent  a  fortune  on  formal  attire,  cummerbund,  diamond  studs,  patent-  leather  shoes.  A  columnist  at  the  News  said  that  to  Ravelstein  money  was  something  you  threw  from  the  rear  platform  of  a  speeding  train.  Ravelstein  showed  me  the  clipping  with  shouts  of  laughter.  Through  it  all  he  was  deeply  amused.  And,  of  course,  I  didn't  have  the  same  reasons  for  amusement.  The   vast  hydraulic  forces  of  the  country  had  not  picked  me  up,  as  they  had  him.  IN  approaching  a  man  like  Ravelstein,  a  piecemeal  method  is  perhaps  best.  I  had  come  up  to  his  penthouse  luxury  suite  on  this  June  morning  in  [REDACTED]  not  so  much  to  discuss  the  biographical  essay  I  was  going  to  write  as  to  collect  some  facts  about  his  parents  and  his  early  life.  I  didn't  want  more  detail  than  I  could  use  and  I  was  by  now  familiar  with  the  large  outlines  of  his  life  story.  The  Ravelsteins  were  a  Dayton,  [REDACTED],  family.  His  mother,  a  powerhouse,  had  put  herself  through  Johns  Hopkins.  His  father,  not  a  success-  ful  man,  was  the  local  representative  of  a  large  national  organization,  banished  to  Dayton.  A  fat  neurotic  little  man,  a  hys-  terical  parent,  a  disciplinarian.  Little  Abe,  when  he  was  punished,  was  ordered  to  strip  naked,  and  then  he  was  beaten  with  the  strap  that  held  up  his  father's  pants.  Abe  admired  his  mother,  hated  his  father,  despised  his  sister.  But  Keynes,  to  glance  at  him  once  more,  had  little  to  say  of  Clemenceau's  family  history.  Clemen-  ceau  was  a  seasoned  cynic;  he  loathed  and  distrusted  the  Germans;  he  wore  gray  kid  gloves  at  the  negotiating  table.  But  we'll  ignore  the  gloves-what  I  mean  is  that  we  aren't  doing  psycho-  biography  here.  This  morning,  moreover,  Ravelstein  was  in  no  mood  to  go  into  the  facts  of  his  early  life.  The  Place  de  la  Concorde  was  losing  its  freshness.  The  traffic  below  was  thin-  ner,  but  the  June  heat  was  thickening,  rising.  In  the  sun,  our  pulsebeats  were  somewhat  slower.  Our  conversation  pausing,  Ravelstein  slumped  for  a  while,  his  hemispheric  eyebrows  drawn  upward.  His  lips,  poised  to  say  more,  said  noth-  ing.  He  was  momentarily  elsewhere;  he  was  subject  to  these  intermittences.  Though  his  eyes  were  open,  it  was  pos-  sible  that  he  didn't  see  you.  As  he  sel-  dom  had  a  night  of  uninterrupted  sleep,  it  wasn't  unusual,  especially  in  warm  weather,  for  him  to  lapse  briefly,  to  doze,  to  drop  out,  two  long  arms  hanging  over  the  sides  of  his  chair,  above  the  strange  shapes  of  his  mismatched  feet.  (One  was  three  sizes  bigger  than  the  other.)  And  it  wasn't  only  the  broken  sleep;  it  was  the  excitement,  thewringing,  the  tension  of  his  pleasures,  of  his  mental  life.  His  fatigue  this  morning  might  have  been  due  to  the  grand  dinner  he  had  given  us  the  night  before,  an  extraordi-  nary  party  on  the  Place  de  la  Madeleine,  chez  Lucas  Carton.  Digesting  all  those  courses  was  bound  to  take  it  out  of  you.  The  main  dish  was  chicken  seasoned  with  honey  and  baked  in  clay.  The  an-  cient  Greek  recipe  had  recently  been  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  1,  1999  found  by  archeologists  on  an  Aegean  dig.  We  dined  on  this  delicious  dish,  at-  tended  by  no  fewer  than  four  waiters.  The  sommelier,  with  his  badge  of  office  on  a  chain  of  keys,  supervised  the  filling  of  the  glasses.  Each  course  with  its  ap-  propriate  wine,  while  the  waiters  reset  the  china  and  the  silver  with  the  timing  of  acrobats.  Ravelstein  with  his  look  of  wild  happiness,  laughing  and  stammer-  ing,  as  he  did  when  he  was  on  a  roll-in-  terrupting  every  clause  in  his  long  sen-  tences  with  &quot;Thee-ah,  thee-ah,  thee-ah  this  is  the  finest  cuisine  in  Europe-  thee-ah,  thee-ah  Chick  is  a  great  skeptic  when  it  comes  to  the  French.  He,  thee-  ah,  thinks  their  cooking  is  all  they  have  to  show  for  themselves  since  the  disgrace  of  the  thee-ah,  thee-ah  1940,  when  Hitler  danced  his  victory  jig  in  front  of  the  Arc  de  Triomphe.  Chick  sees  /z  [REDACTED]  pourrie  in  Sartre,  in  the  loathing  of  the  [REDACTED]  thee-ah  and  worship  of  Stalinism,  and  in  philosophy  and  linguis-  tic  theory.  Thee-ah  hermeneutics-he  says  parmoneutics-are  little  sandwiches  eaten  by  musicians  during  the  intermis-  sion.  But  you  have  to  admit  that  you  can't  geta  meal  like  this  anywhere  else.  Notice  how  Rosamund  is  glowing.  Now,  there's  a  woman  who  relishes  exquisite  food  and  thee-ah,  thee-ah,  thee-ah  res-  taurateur's  presentation.  Also  Nikki,  someone  who  can  judge  cookery-you  wouldn't  deny  it,  Chick.&quot;  This  dinner  had  been  laid  on  for  me.  It  was  Ravelstein's  way  of  thanking  his  friend  Chick  for  the  support  he  had  given  him  in  the  writing  of  his  best-  seller.  The  idea  of  the  entire  project,  he  said,  had  been  mine,  from  the  first.  It  would  never  have  been  done  ifI  hadn't  urged  him  to  do  it.  This  was  always  and  handsomely  acknowledged  by  Abe:  &quot;It  was  Chick  who  put  me  up  to  it.&quot;  THERE  is  a  parallel  between  inner-  city  phenomena  and  the  mental  disarray  of  the  [REDACTED],  the  winner  of  the  Cold  War,  the  only  superpower  remain-  ing.  That's  one  way  of  boiling  it  down.  This  is  what  Ravelstein's  books  and  arti-  cles  had  to  tell  us.  He  took  you  from  an-  tiquity  to  the  Enlightenment,  and  then-  by  way  ofLocke,  Montesquieu,  and  [REDACTED],  onward  to  Nietzsche,  Heideg-  ger-to  the  present  moment,  to  corpo-  rate,  high-tech  [REDACTED],  its  culture  and  its  entertainments,  its  press,  its  educa-  tional  system,  its  think  tanks,  its  politics.  RAVELSTEIN  He  gave  you  a  picture  of  this  mass  de-  mocracy  and  its  characteristic,  woeful  human  product.  In  his  classroom-and  the  lectures  were  always  packed-he  coughed,  stammered,  he  smoked,  bawled,  laughed,  he  brought  his  students  to  their  feet  and  debated,  provoked  them  to  sin-  gle  combat,  examined,  hammered  them.  He  didn't  ask  &quot;Where  will  you  spend  eternity?&quot;  as  religious  the-end-is-near  picketers  did,  but,  rather,  &quot;With  what,  in  this  modern  democracy,  will  you  meet  the  demands  of  your  soul?&quot;  This  tall  pin-  or  challk-striped  dude  with  his  bald  head  (you  always  felt  there  was  something  dangerous  about  its  whiteness,  its  white  force,  its  dents)  did  not  step  up  to  the  platform  to  bore  you  silly  with  the  correct  order  of  the  epochs  (the  Age  of  Faith,  the  Age  of  Reason,  the  Romantic  Revolutlon)  nor  did  he  present  himself  as  an  academic,  or  as  a  campus  rebel  encouraging  revolutionary  behavior.  The  strikes  and  campus  take-  overs  of  the  sixties  had  set  the  country  back  significantly,  he  said.  He  did  not  court  students  by  putting  on  bull-session  airs  or  try  to  scan-  dalize  them-entertain  them,  actually,  as  histrionic  lectur-  ers  do-by  shouting  &quot;Shit!&quot;  or  &quot;Fuck!&quot;  There  was  nothing  at  all  of  the  campus  wild  man  about  him.  His  frailties  were  visible.  He  obsessively  knew  what  it  was  to  be  sunk  by  his  faults  or  his  errors.  But  before  he  went  under  he  would  de-  scribe  Plato's  cave  to  you.  He  would  tell  you  about  your  soul,  already  thin,  and  shrinking  fast-faster  and  faster.  He  attracted  gifted  students.  His  classes  were  always  full.  So  it  eventually  occurred  to  me  that  he  had  only  to  put  on  the  page  what  he  was  doing  viva  voce.  It  would  be  the  easiest  thing  in  the  world  for  Ravel-  stein  to  write  a  popular  book.  Furthermore,  to  be  perfectly  frank,  I  was  tired  of  hearing  about  his  unsatisfactory  salary,  his  byzantine  borrowing  habits,  and  the  deals  and  arrangements  he  made  by  putting  his  trea-  sures  in  hock.  After  following  with  more  exasperation  than  in-  terest  the  story  of  his  beautiful  Jensen  teapot's  five  years  in  the    hands  of  Cecil  Moers,  one  of  his  own  Ph.D.s-given  as  security  for  a  five-  thousand-dollar  loan  (and  finally  sold  by  this  Ph.D.  to  some  dealer  for  ten  thou-  sand)-I  said,  &quot;How  long  can  you  expect  me  to  put  up  with  this  boring  dispute,  this  boring  teapot,  and  all  your  other  boring  luxury  articles?  Look,  Abe,  if  you're  living  beyond  your  means,  a  strug-  gling  aristocrat  victimized  by  his  need  for  beautiful  objects,  why  don't  you  in-  crease  those  means?&quot;  At  this,  I  recall,  Ravelstein  brought  both  his  hands  to  his  ears.  The  hands  were  finely  made,  the  ears  were  gross.  &quot;What?  Should  I  register  with  an  escort  service?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you're  not  much  of  a  dancer.  You  might  hire  out  as  a  dinner-table  conversationalist.  Like  a  thousand  bucks  a  night  ...  No,  what  I  have  in  mind  for  you  is  a  book.  You  could  base  a  popular  bookon  your  actual  class  notes.&quot;  &quot;Yah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Like  Fielding's  poor  Parson  Adams  who  goes  to  [REDACTED]  to  have  his  sermons  printed.  The  parson  neededmoney,  and  hehad  nothing  to     UVuVVVV  101  sell  except  his  sermons.  He  had  written  them  out.  I  don't  even  have  notes.  The  advice  you're  giving  me,  Chick,  is  the  ad-  vice  of  a  much  published  author.  You  re-  mind  me  of  Dwight  Macdonald.  He  said  when  Venetsky,  one  of  his  friends,  was  dead  broke-absolutely  at  wit's  end  for  money-'If  you're  in  such  a  bind,  Venetsky,  why  don't  you  sell  one  of  your  bonds?  One  can  always  do  that.'  It  never  would  have  occurred  to  him  that  Ve-  netsky  aed  no  bonds.  The  Macdon-  alds  had  them.  The  Venetskys  didn't.&quot;  &quot;This  is  Macdonald  as  Marie  Antoinette.&quot;  &quot;Yes!&quot;  Ravelstein  shouted,  laughing.  &quot;Thee-ah  old  Depression  joke  about  the  hobo  who  pitchesa  rich  old  lady  and  says,  Ma'am,  1  haven't  swallowed  a  bite  offood  in  three  days.'  'Oh,  you  poor  man,  you  must  force  yourself,&quot;  she  says.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  how  you  can  miss  on  this,&quot;  I  told  Ravelstein.  &quot;All  you  have  to  do  is  prepare  a  proposal.  At  the  very  least  you  can  get  a  small  advance.  It  couldn't  be  less  than  twenty-five  hundred.  My  \\  S  a  FALE’BLU  CLOUDLESS  Ste  (Ess  Y  102  guess  would  be  nearer  to  five  thousand.  Even  if  you  never  write  a  word  of  this  proposed  book,  you'll  pay  off  some  of  the  debts  and  revive  your  borrowing  power.  How  can  you  lose?&quot;  He  jumped  at  this.  To  bilk  a  publisher  out  of  a  few  thousand  bucks  and  at  the  same  time  free  himself  to  wheel  and  deal  was  tremendously  appealing.  In  outlook,  he  was  anything  but  petty.  But  he  did  not  expect  my  utopian  brainstorm  to  come  to  anything.  He  had  got  used  to  the  theatre  of  small-time  intrigue  where  he  could  ironically,  satirically  dramatize  and  assert  his  exceptional  stature  and  scope.  So  the  outline  was  prepared  and  sent,  a  contract  was  signed,  the  advance  was  paid.  The  priceless  Jensen  teapot  was  gone  for  good,  but  Ravelstein's  credit  line  was  reopened.  He  wired  money  to  Nikki  in  [REDACTED],  who  bought  a  new  outfit  at  Gianfranco  Ferré.  Nikki  had  the  instincts  of  a  prince,  and  he  dressed  like  one;  in  Nikki,  Ravel-  stein  saw  a  brilliant  young  man  who  had  every  right  to  assert  himself.  This  was  not  a  matter  of  style  or  self-presentation.  We  are  speaking  here  of  a  young  man's  nature  and  not  of  his  strategies.  To  his  own  surprise,  Abe  Ravelstein  then  found  himself  writing  the  book  he  had  signed  up  to  do.  The  surprise  was  general  among  his  friends  and  the  three  or  four  generations  of  students  he  had  trained.  Some  of  these  disapproved.  They  opposed  what  they  saw  as  the  popular-  zation  or  cheapening  of  his  ideas.  But  teaching,  even  if  you  are  teaching  Plato  or  Lucretius  or  Machiavelli  or  Bacon  or  Hobbes,  is  a  kind  of  popularization.  The  products  of  their  great  minds  have  been  in  print  for  centuries  and  accessible  to  a  general  public  blind  to  their  esoteric  sig-  nificance.  For  all  the  great  texts  had  eso-  teric  significance,  Ravelstein  believed  and  taught.  This,  I  think,  has  to  be  men-  tioned,  but  nomore  than  mentioned.  The  simplest  of  human  beings  is,  for  that  matter,  esoteric  and  radically  mysterious.  One  more  odd  bit  from  that  evening  at  Lucas  Carton.  It  ended  with  an  after-  dinner  wine.  We  had  come  to  the  estuary  of  the  feast  and  were  once  more  facing  the  gulf  of  common  fare.  Ravelstein  pulled  out  his  French  checkbook.  He  had  never  before  had  a  [REDACTED]  account.  For  long  years  he  had  been  a  tourist  or  mid-  level  worshipper  of  French  civilization,  but  under  a  budgetary  cloud-wanting  to  be  a  high-stepper,  but  broke.  On  our  own  side  of  the  Atlantic  there  was  a  shadow  parallel  to  this.  As  a  Jew  you  are  also  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  but  somehow  you  are  not.  Imagine,  however,  reaching  into  your  pocket  to  leave  a  grand-seigneur  tip  and  finding  little  more  than  lint  along  the  seam.  Ravelstein,  with  his  shaking  hand,  wrote  the  check  in  an  ecstasy.  Now  the  waiter  had  brought  a  dish  of  choco-  late  truffles  with  the  bill,  and  it  broke  Ravelstein  up  to  see  Rosamund  opening     THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  1,  1999  her  purse  and  wrapping  up  the  small  peaked  chocolates  covered  with  cocoa  dust.  &quot;Take  'em!  Take  every  last  one,&quot;  said  Ravelstein  the  Jewish  comedian.  He  raised  his  cracked  night-club  voice.  'Those  are  edible  souvenirs.  Every  one  you  eat  will  bring  this  feast  back  to  you.  You  can  write  it  down  in  your  diary  and  remember  how  bold  and  forward  you  were,  stashing  these  truffles  in  your  bag.&quot;  Ravelstein  thought  all  the  better  of  you  for  stepping  out  of  line.  Later  he  would  occasionally  say  to  Rosamund,  &quot;Don't  give  me  that  well-bred-young-  lady-lace-paper-doily  routine.  I  saw  you  swiping  those  chocolates  at  Lucas  Car-  ton.&quot;  The  fact  is  that  he  liked  minor  crimes  and  misdemeanors.  Just  under  the  surface  of  his  preferences  there  were  always  ideas  to  be  found.  In  this  in-  stance  the  idea  was  that  uniform  good  conduct  was  a  bad  sign.  What  made  Rosamund's  scooping  up  of  the  truffles  particularly  appealing  was  that  she  was  a  very  pretty,  well-brought-up,  man-  nerly,  intelligent  young  woman.  It  pleased  him  that  she  had  fallen  in  love  with  an  old  guy  like  me.  &quot;There's  a  class  of  women  who  naturally  go  for  old  men,&quot;  he  said.  As  I've  already  indicated,  he  was  drawn  to  irregular  behavior.  Especially  where  love  was  the  motive.  He  rated  longing  very  highly.  Looking  for  love,  falling  in  love,  you  were  pining  for  the  half  you  had  lost,  as  Aristophanes  had  said.  Only  it  wasn't  Aristophanes  at  all,  but  Plato  ina  speech  at-  tributed  to  Aristophanes.  In  the  beginning  men  and  women  were  round  like  the  sun  and  the  moon;  they  were  either  male-male,  female-  female,  or  male-and-female,  and  each  being  had  two  sets  of  sexual  organs.  So  the  myth  went.  They  were  proud,  self-sufficient  beings.  They  defied  the  Olympian  gods,  who  punished  them  by  splitting  them  in  half.  To  be  human  was  to  be  severed,  mutilated.  Man  is  incomplete.  Zeus  is  a  tyrant.  Mt.  Olympus  is  a  tyranny.  The  work  of  humankind  in  its  severed  state  is  to  seek  the  missing  half.  And  after  so  many  generations  your  true  counterpart  is  simply  not  to  be  found.  Eros  is  a  compensation  granted  by  Zeus-possibly  for  political  reasons  of  his  own.  And  the  quest  for  your  lost  half  is  hopeless.  The  sexual  embrace  RAVELSTEIN  gives  temporary  self-forgetting  but  the  painful  knowledge  of  mutilation  is  permanent.  Like  all,  or  most,  of  the  students  of  my  generation,  I  had  read  Plato's  Symposium.  Wonderful  enter-  tainment,  I  had  thought.  But  I  was  sent  back  to  it  by  Ravelstein.  Not  liter-  ally  sert.  But  if  you  were  continually  in  his  company  you  had  to  go  back  to  the  Symposium  repeatedly.  Anyway,  it  was  just  after  midnight  when  we  got  up  to  go.  Across  the  way  there  was  a  brilliant  display  of  orchids.  We  were  drawn  by  the  lights  and  colors  of  the  flower  shop  and  we  crossed  the  empty  street.  There  was  a  vertical  opening  in  the  plate  glass-two  lines  of  brass  edging-to  let  the  flower  odors  into  the  carbon  monox-  ide  of  the  Place  de  la  Made-  leine.  More  French  seduction.  The  hook-  ers  used  to  congregate  in  front  of  the  great  church,  where  state  funerals  are  held.  Ravelstein  reminded  me  of  this.  There  was  Ravelstein  for  you.  If  you  didn't  know  this  about  him,  you  couldn't  know  him  at  all.  Without  longing,  your  soul  was  a  used  inner  tube,  maybe  good  for  one  summer  at  the  beach,  nothing  more.  Spirited  men  and  women,  the  young  above  all,  were  devoted  to  the  pur-  suit  of  love.  By  contrast,  the  bourgeois  were  dominated  by  fears  of  violent  death.  There,  in  the  briefest  form  possible,  you  have  a  sketch  of  Ravelstein's  most  im-  portant  preoccupations.  I  feel  that  I  do  him  an  injustice  by  speaking  so  simplisti-  cally.  He  was  a  very  complex  man.  Did  he  really  share  the  view  (attributed  by  Plato  to  Aristophanes)  that  we  are  seek-  ing  the  other  that  is  a  part  of  ourselves?  Nothing  could  move  him  more  than  a  genuine  instance  of  this  quest.  Moreover,  he  was  forever  looking  for  signs  of  it  in  everyone  he  knew.  Naturally  his  students  were  included.  Odd,  for  a  professor  to  be  thinking  of  the  kidsin  his  seminars  as  actors  in  this  staggering  eternal  drama.  His  first  move  when  his  students  ar-  rived  was  to  order  them  to  forget  about  their  families.  Their  fathers  were  shop-  keepers  in  Crawfordsville,  [REDACTED],  or  Pontiac,  [REDACTED].  The  sons  thought  long  and  hard  about  the  Peloponnesian  War,  about  the  Symposium  and  the  Phaedrus,  and  didn't  consider  it  at  all  strange  that  they  were  soon  more  familiar  with  Nicias  and  Alcibiades  than  with  the  milk  train     or  the  ten-cent  store.  Bit  by  bit,  Ravel-  stein  also  got  them  to  confide  in  him.  They  told  him  their  stories.  They  held  nothing  back.  It  was  amazing  how  much  he  learned  about  them.  It  was  partly  his  passion  for  gossip  that  brought  in  the  in-  formation  he  wanted.  He  not  only  trained  them,  he  formed  them,  he  distributed  them  into  groups  and  subgroups  and  placed  them  in  sexual  categories,  as  he  thought  appropriate.  Some  were  going  .  to  be  husbands  and  fathers,  some  would  be  queer-the  regular,  the  irregular,  the  deep,  the  entertaining,  the  plungers,  the  hustlers,  the  born  scholars,  those  with  a  gift  for  philoso-  phy.  Lovers,  plodders,  gam-  blers,  bureaucrats,  narcissists,  chasers.  He  gave  a  good  deal  of  thought  to  all  of  this.  He  told  the  students  that  he  was  going  to  direct  them  to  a  higher  exis-  tence,  full  of  variety  and  diversity,  gov-  erned  by  rationality-anything  but  an  arid  life.  If  they  were  lucky,  if  they  were  bright  and  willing,  Ravelstein  would  give  them  the  greatest  gift  they  could  hope  to  receive.  It  wasn't  an  academic  pro-  gram  that  he  offered-it  was  more  free-  wheeling  than  that.  And  the  whole  thing  worked-on  the  whole  his  program  was  effective.  Not  one  of  his  students  became  a  Ravelstein  in  scope.  But  most  of  them  were  highly  intelligent  and  very  satisfac-  torily  singular.  He  loved  the  kinkier  stu-  dents-they  could  never  bekinky  enough  to  suit  him.  But,  of  course,  they  had  to  know  the  fundamentals  and  know  them  diabolically  well.  &quot;Isn't  Ze  the  twisted  one,&quot;  he'd  say  about  one  or  another  of  them.  &quot;Were  you  sent  an  offprint  of  his  latest  article-*Historicism  and  Philosophy'?  I  told  him  to  put  it  in  your  box.&quot;  AI  have  said,  we  had  planned  today  todiscuss  the  memoir  I  was  going  to  write,  but  this  wasn't  a  good  day  for  biographical  details.  &quot;I  think  I'd  rather  go  along  the  Rue  Saint-Honoré  this  morning,&quot;  Ravelstein  said.  &quot;I'd  like  your  advice  about  a  sports  coat  at  Lanvin.&quot;  We  left  the  penthouse.  The  moment  was  well  chosen,  because,  several  floors  below,  the  elevator  stopped  and  Michael  Jackson  and  his  peoplegot  in.  There  he  was,  in  one  of  his  spangled  costumes,  gold  on  black-a  tight  fit.  His  curls  were  fresh  and  his  slim  smile  was  chaste.  De-  pite  yourself,  you  studied  him  for  signs  of  facial  surgery.  His  air,  I  thought,  was  wistfully  transitional.  Golden  boys  com-  ing  to  dust,  like  chimney  sweepers.  Ravelstein,  who  was  as  big  as  any  of  the  bodyguards-even  bigger  but  cer-  tainly  not  as  strong-loved  this  brief  mo-  ment  of  contact.  He  was  like  that-the  pleasure  of  a  moment  consumed  him.  On  the  main  floor,  the  guards  cleared  the  way  for  Jackson  as  if  they  were  doing  the  breaststroke.  There  were  lots  of  peo-  ple  in  the  lobby.  The  big  crowd  was  out-  side  in  the  street,  beyond  the  police  bar-  rier.  But  we  were  pressed  together  and  held  back  behind  braided  gilt  cords.  The  star  walked  out,  delicately  waving  to  the  hundreds  of  shouting  groupies.  Abe  Ravelstein  didn't  at  all  mind  being  be-  hind  the  ropes.  [REDACTED]  today  was  [REDACTED]  as  it  should  be.  The  kings  who  had  laid  out  Versailles  directed  the  architects  to  build  the  mag-  nificent  public  spaces  of  the  capital.  These,  today,  were  Ravelstein's  setting.  He  was  the  grandee  in  the  new  order  of  things,  carrying  his  credit  cards  and  checks,  will-  ing  to  spend  his  dollars.  The  bills  were  paid  by  credit  card  and  charged  to  his  account  at  Merrill  Lynch.  Ravelstein  sel-  dom  checked  his  statements.  From  time  to  time,  Nikki,  who  wasn't  supposed  to  do  it,  looked  them  over.  His  only  aim  was  to  protect  Abe.  It  was  thanks  to  Nikki  that  a  major  swindler  in  [REDACTED]  was  dis-  covered.  Someone  there  had  used  Abe's  Visa  card  to  run  up  a  thirty-thousand-  dollar  tab.  &quot;The  signature  was  an  obvious  forgery,&quot;  said  Abe,  not  too  upset.  &quot;Visa  took  care  of  it.  International  electronic  swindles  are  the  order  of  the  day.  The  crooks  learn  to  keep  up  with  high  tech-  nology  like  inventive  bacteria  that  outwit  the  pharmaceuticals,  while  the  brainy  re-  searchers  in  the  labs  pit  themselves  against  the  ingenuity  of  the  versatile  germs.&quot;  The  [REDACTED]  term  for  window-shopping  is  Zeche-vitrines-licking  the  plate  glass.  This  requires  perfect  leisure,  and  our  breakfast  had  used  up  most  of  the  morn-  ing.  Still,  we  did  linger  over  the  displays  of  socks  and  neckties  and  made-to-order  shirts.  Then  we  walked  a  little  faster.  I  said  to  Abe  that  thege  luxurious  displays  made  me  feel  tense.  Too  many  attractions.  I  couldn't  bear  to  be  pulled  from  all  sides.  &quot;I've  noticed,&quot;  said  Ravelstein,  &quot;that  since  your  marriage  your  dress  standards  have  dropped.  You  once  were  something  of  a  dude.&quot;  He  said  this  with  regret.  From  time  to  time  he  would  buy  me  a  necktie-never  one  that  I  would  have  chosen  for  myself.  These  gift  ties  were  something  of  a  put-  down,  to  remind  me  that  I  was  becom-  ing  dowdy.  But  there  was  more  to  it  than  that.  Ravelstein  was  able  to  make  a  strik-  ing  statement.  Because  of  his  large  size,  he  could  wear  clothes  with  dramatic  ef-  fect.  To  be  really  handsome  a  man  should  be  tall.  A  tragic  hero  has  to  be  above  the  average  in  height.  I  hadn't  read  Aristotle  in  ages,  but  I  remembered  this  much  from  the  Poetics.  In  the  Rue  Saint-Honoré,  loaded  with  all  the  glamour  of  French  history  and  politics,  what  came  back  to  me  was  that  old  music-hall  number  called  &quot;The  Man  Who  Broke  the  Bank  at  Monte  Carlo.&quot;  There  is  a  flaneur  who  strolls  in  the  Bois  de  Boulogne  with  an  independent  air.  And  he  is  debonair.  And  of  course  the  people  stare.  Things  don't  happen  at  all  if  they  don't  happen  in  [REDACTED]  or  aren't  brought  to  the  attention  of  [REDACTED].  That  bursting  old  furnace  Balzac  established  this  as  a  first  principle.  What  [REDACTED]  hadn't  vetted  didn't  even  exist.  Of  course,  Ravelstein  knew  too  much  about  the  modern  world  to  agree  with  this.  [REDACTED],  alas,  was  no  longer  the  center  of  judgment,  enlightenment.  It  was  not  the  home  of  cyberspace.  It  no  longer  attracted  the  world's  great  in-  tellects  and  all  the  rest  of  that  cultural  schtuss.  The  French  had  hed  it.  De  Gaulle  the  human  giraffe  sniffing  down  his  nos-  trils.  Churchill  saying,  about  him,  that  [REDACTED]'s  offense  had  been  to  help  /  [REDACTED].  The  lofty  military  creature  gazing  on  the  treetops  of  the  late-modern  world  could  not  suffer  the  thought  that  his  country  needed  help.  In  Great  Politics,  of  course,  [REDACTED]  today  was  bankrupt.  Only  the  manner  was  left,  and  the  French  made  the  most  of  the  manner,  but  they  were  bluffing:  they  knew  they  were  talking  twaddle.  What  they  were  still  good  at  was  the  arts  of  intimacy.  Eats  still  rated  high-e.g.,  last  night's  banquet  at  Lucas  Carton.  In  every  quartier,  the  fresh-produce  mar-  kets,  the  good  bakeries,  the  charcuterie  with  its  cold  cuts.  Also  the  great  displays     THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  1,  1999  of  intimate  garments.  The  shameless  love  of  fine  bedding.  Viens,  viens  dans  mes  bras,  je  te  donne  du  chocolat.  It  was  wonderful  to  be  so  public  about  the  private,  about  the  living  creature  and  its  needs.  Slick  magazines  in  New  York  imitated  this  but  never  got  it  right.  ...  Yes,  and  then  there  was  the  French  street  life.  556e6974656420537461746573n  res-  idential  streets  were  humanly  nine-tenths  barren.  Here  humankind  was  still  acting  up,  said  Ravelstein.  Ravelstein  the  sin-  ner  did  have  a  taste  for  sexy  mischief.  He  relished  louche  encounters,  the  fishy  and  the  equivocal.  For  certain  kinds  of  con-  duct,  or  misconduct,  [REDACTED]  was  still  the  best  place.  If  Ravelstein  starnmered,  it  was  not  from  weakness  but  from  over-  flow.  The  famous  light  of  [REDACTED]  was  con-  centrated  on  his  bald  head.  &quot;How  far  is  the  joint  we're  going  to&quot;&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  impatient,  Chick.  You  al-  ways  make  me  feel  you  have  something  more  important  to  do  than  what  you're  doing  now.&quot;  I  didn't  defendmyself-didn'teven  try.  Our  destination,  Lanvin,  was  close  by,  but  we  were  detained  en  route  by  var-  ious  shops.  Opticians  always  held  Ravel-  stein  up.  He  was  familiar  with  every  sort  of  frame.  There  he  wasn't  alone.  Accord-  ing  to  a  survey,  the  average  556e6974656420537461746573n  woman  has  three  pairs  of  sunglasses  &quot;O,  reason  not  the  need,&quot;  poor  Lear's  de-  fense  of  superfluities.  Abe  loved  specs;  he  bought  them  also  as  gifts.  He  gave  me  the  folding  kind  that  go  into  a  small  case  made  for  an  outer  pocket.  He  swore  off  contact  lenses  after  he  lost  one  in  a  spaghetti  sauce  he  was  cooking.  &quot;What  does  this  Lanvin  jacket  have  that  your  twenty  others  haven't?&quot;  I  wanted  to  say.  But  I  knew  perfectly  well  thatin  Abe's  head  there  were  all  kinds  of  dis-  tinctions  having  to  do  with  prodigality  and  illiberality,  magnanimity  and  mean-  ness.  The  attributes  of  the  great-souled  man.  I  didn't  want  to  get  him  started.  Neither  did  he  want  to  get  started,  this  morning.  So  we  bought  the  jacket.  A  beautiful  flannel,  it  was  silky  as  well  as  substantial.  The  color  was  one  I  associated  with  Lab-  rador  retrievers-golden,  with  rich  lights  among  the  folds.  You  see  such  jackets  advertised  in  Vanity  Fair  and  the  other  fashion  slicks,  and  they're  usually  mod-  elled  by  unshaven  toughs  with  the  look  of  rough  trade  or  of  downright  rapists  who  have  nothing-but  nothing-to  do,  other  than  be  seen  in  all  the  glory  of  RAVELSTEIN  their  dirty  narcissism.  You  don't  even  think  of  such  a  garment  on  an  unwieldy  intelligent  man.  A  little  fat  in  the  chest,  maybe,  or  with  love  handles  at  the  waist.  It's  actually  a  pleasant  thing  to  see.  The  price  was  twenty-five  thousand  francs,  or  four  thousand  five  hundred  dollars,  and  he  put  it  on  his  Visa  Gold  card  because  he  wasn't  sure  offhand  about  his  balance  at  the  Crédit  Lyon-  nais.  Visa  protects  you  from  gouging;  it  guarantees  the  legal  rate  of  exchange  for  the  day  of  the  transaction.  In  the  street,  he  asked  how  the  color  held  up  in  full  daylight.  He  was  deeply  satisfied  when  I  said  that  it  was  gorgeous.  Our  next  stop  was  Sulka,  where  he  looked  over  the  custom-made  shirts  he  had  ordered.  They  were  to  be  delivered  to  the  Crillon,  each  one  in  a  durable  plastic  box.  We  then  went  to  the  Cristal  Lalique  showrooms,  where  he  wanted  to  look  at  lighting  fixtures  for  his  walls  and  ceilings  at  home.  &quot;Let's  set  aside  half  anhour  for  Gelot  the  hatmaker.&quot;  At  Gelot's  I  broke  down  andbought  myself  a  green  corduroy  fedora.  Abe  said  I  had  to  have  it.  &quot;I  like  the  look  of  it  on  you.  You  can  do  with  a  little  asser-  tion.  You  don't  make  enough  of  your-  self,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  too  fucking  mod-  est,  Chick.  It's  unbecoming,  because  anybody  who  catches  your  eye  sees  that  you're  an  overweening  megalomaniac.  If  you're  too  stingy  to  do  it  I'll  put  it  on  my  account.&quot;  &quot;My  parents  had  green  sofas  at  home,&quot;  Isaid,  &quot;Secondhand,  but  velvet.  I'll  pay  for  it  myself.  I'm  buying  this  for  old  times'  sake.&quot;  &quot;It  may  be  too  heavy  for  June.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  expect  to  be  still  alive  in  October.&quot;  He  was  wearing  his  Lanvin  jacket  on  the  Rue  de  Rivoli.  The  great  Louvre  and  the  parks  were  on  our  left.  The  arcades  were  full  of  tourists.  &quot;The  Palais-Royal&quot;-Ravelstein  ges-  tured  loosely  toward  it-&quot;was  where  Di-  derot  walked  late  every  afternoon  and  where  he  had  his  famous  conversations  with  Rameau's  nephew.&quot;  But  Ravelstein  was  by  no  means  like  the  nephew-that  music  teacher  and  sponger.  He  was  above  Diderot,  too.  I  was  always  drawn  to  peo-  ple  who  were  orderly  in  a  large  sense  and  had  mapped  out  the  world  and  made  it  coherent.  We  had  a  buddy  back  in  the  States  who  liked  to  tell  us,  &quot;Order  itself  is  charismatic.&quot;  Which  is  another  way  of  saying  &quot;Music  hath  charms,&quot;  et  cetera.  E  had  no  need  for  lunch-the  Lucas  Carton  ten-course  ban-  quet  took  away  your  appetite  until  din-  nertime  the  next  day-but  we  sat  down  to  drink  some  coffee.  Ravelstein  was  on  his  second  pack  of  Marlboro  cigarettes,  and  at  the  Café  de  Flore,  which  he  pa-  tronized  regularly,  he  ordered  wr  espresso  tres  serre.  They  packed  it  tightfor  him.  But  if  his  big  fingers  shook  when  he  picked  up  the  cup  it  was  not  because  he  had  a  case  of  nerves.  What  he  had  was  an  overflow  of  excitement.  The  caffeine  was  the  least  of  it.  He  was  a  curious  man  to  watch  at  the  table.  His  feeding  habits  needed  get-  ting  used  to.  Mrs.  Glyph,  the  wife  of  the  founder  of  his  department,  told  him  once  that  he  should  never  again  expect  her  to  ask  him  to  dinner.  She  was,  in  her  own  right,  a  very  rich  lady,  big  on  high  culture  and  an  entertainer  of  visiting  celebrities.  She  had  had  R.  H.  Tawney  at  her  dinner  table,  and  Bertrand  Russell,  and  some  big-shot  French  Thomist  whose  name  escapes  me  (Maritain?),  and  lots  of  lite-  rati,  especially  the  French.  Abe  Ravel-  stein,  then  writing  his  dissertation,  was  invited  to  a  luncheon  to  honor  T.  S.  Eliot.  Marla  Glyph  said  to  Abe  Ravelstein  as  he  was  leaving,  &quot;You  drank  from  your  Coke  bottle,  and  T.  S.  Eliot  was  watch-  ing-with  horror.&quot;  Ravelstein  told  this  on  himself.  And  on  the  late  Mrs.  Glyph.  &quot;People  who  are  self-glamorized  invent  their  peculiar  sig-  nificance  as  they  go  along,&quot;  Ravelstein  said,  &quot;until  they  knit  together  a  dazzling  fantasy.  They  turn  themselves  into  some-  thing  like  glorious  dragonflies  and  whiz  through  an  atmosphere  of  perfect  unre-  ality.  Then  they  write  essays,  poems,  whole  books  about  each  other.  ..  .&quot;  But  somehow  I  can't  believe  that  drink  ing  from  a  Coke  bottle  was  the  whole  story.  (And  what  was  a  Coke  bottle  doing  on  the  table  to  begin  with!)  When  Ravel-  stein  came  to  dinner  youhad  to  reckon  on  a  big  cleaning  job  afterward-the  spilling,  splashing,  crumbling,  the  nasti-  ness  of  his  napkin  after  he  had  used  it,  the  pieces  of  cooked  meat  scattered  under  the  table,  the  wine  sprayed  out  when  he  laughed  at  a  wisecrack,  courses  rejected  after  a  single  bite  and  pawed  to  the  floor.  An  experienced  hostess  would  spread  newspapers  under  his  chair.  He  didn't  pay  much  attention  to  such  things.  Of  course,  each  of  us  has  ways  of  knowing  what  is  going  on.  Abe  Arew-he  knew  what  to  bring  to  full  consciousness  and  what  to  brush  aside.  Objecting  to  Abe's  table  man-  ners  would  be  a  confession  of  pettiness.  It  amused  Ravelstein  to  say,  &quot;She  wasn't  going  to  let  any  kike  behave  so  badly  at  ber  table.&quot;  Professor  Glyph,  her  husband,  was  a  tall,  small-headed,  white-faced,  smiling,  grave  man.  His  manner  was  decorous  but  his  look  was  dazed.  He  was  learned-fa-  mous  for  his  scholarship.  He  was  pam-  pered  by  his  wife  and  her  Negro  ser-  vants-three  women-a  laundress,  a  cook,  and  a  parlormaid.  The  Glyphs  were  at  home  in  [REDACTED]  as  well  as  in  [REDACTED].  In  Saint-  Tropez,  or  some  such  place,  the  Scott  Fitzgeralds  had  been  their  close  neighbors.  Glyph  and  his  wife  were  not  your  common  name-droppers.  They  had  been  arich  556e6974656420537461746573n  Jazz  Age  couple.  They  had  known  Picasso  and  been  received  by  Gertrude  Stein.  For  some  reason,  Ravelstein  and  I  were  talking  about  them  at  the  Café  de  Flore.  On  especially  enjoyable  days  I  suffer  an  early-afternoon  drop-fine  weather  makes  it  all  the  worse.  The  gloss  the  sun  puts  on  the  surroundings-the  triumph  of  life,  so  to  speak,  the  flourish-  ing  of  everything  makes  me  despair.  I  had  never  spoken  of  this  to  Ravelstein,  but  he  probably  sensed  it.  At  times,  he  seemed  to  be  intervening  on  my  behalf.  &quot;Glyph  loved  the  Pont  Royal-it  was  his  favorite  hotel.  Very  close  by,&quot;  Rav-  elstein  said.  &quot;And  I'll  tell  you-when  Mrs.  Glyph  died,  Glyph  came  to  [REDACTED]  to  grieve  for  her.&quot;  -CYNTHIA  ZARIN  &quot;I  turned  up  just  after  she  died,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Glyph  would  say  'my  late  wife,  and  then,  for  laughs,  he'd  add  that  she  was  never  punctual.  Once  he  invited  me  to  dinner  and  he  asked  on  the  phone  whether  I  objected  to  gens  de  couleur.  The  guest  was  a  gorgeous  woman  from  Mar-  tinique-the  wife  of  some  famous  art  historian.&quot;  «You've  always  been  lucky.  You  sel-  dom  make  the  most  of  your  luck,&quot;  Rav-  elstein  said.  He  went  forhis  third  es-  presso  serre  when  the  waiter  set  it  down;  his  big  unskillful  hand  gripped  the  little  cup  as  he  carried  it  to  his  mouth.  I  would  have  given  big  odds  on  the  out-  come  if  a  bet  had  been  offered.  Brown  stains  appeared  on  the  lapel  of  his  new  jacket.  It  had  been  unpreventable-a  fa-  tality.  He  was  still  drinking  the  espresso;  his  head  was  far  back.  I  kept  my  mouth  shut,  turning  away  from  the  large  brown  blot  on  the  Lanvin  coat.  Another  sort  of  man  might  have  sensed  at  once  that  something  had  happened-someone,  perhaps,  who  took  money  more  seri-  ously  and  would  feel  somehow  the  re-  sponsibility  involved  in  the  wearing  of  a  four-thousand-five-hundred-dollar  gar-  ment.  Ravelstein's  neckties  from  Her-  mes  or  Ermenegildo  Zegna  were  dotted  with  cigarette  burns.  I  tried  to  interest  him  in  bow  ties.  I  said  they  would  be  protected  under  his  chin.  He  saw  the  point,  but  he  wouldn't  buy  ready-mades:  he  had  never  learned  to  knot  a  &quot;papil-  lon&quot;  (as  he  called  it).  &quot;My  fingers  are  too  unsteady.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  well,&quot;  he  said,  when  he  at  last  saw  that  he  had  soiled  his  Lanvin  lapel.  &quot;I've  fucked  up  again.&quot;  RAVELSTEIN  The  coffee  spill  was  funny;  it  was  pure  Ravelstein.  He  himself  had  justsaid  so.  But  I  did  not  treat  it  as  a  comic  inci-  dent.  I  suggested  in  a  somewhat  stifled  manner  that  the  stain  might  be  removed.  &quot;The  valet  service  at  the  Crillon  probably  can  do  it.&quot;  &quot;You  think  so?&quot;  &quot;If  they  can't,  it  can't  be  done  anywhere.&quot;  Obviously,  my  purpose  in  mention-  ing  the  Crillon's  valet  service  was  to  comfort  Abe  for  spilling  the  Flore's  strongest  coffee  on  his  brand-new  jacket.  But  Abe  didn't  want  me  to  console  him  for  being  what  he  was.  He  would  have  thought  better  of  me  for  laughing  at  his  sputtering  reckless  slobbering,  his  gauche  eager  tremors.  He  liked  broad  comedy,  old  vaudeville  routines,  wounding  re-  marks,  brashness,  and  raw  fun.  So  he  didn't  think  well  of  my  weak,  liberal  let's-make-it-all-better  motive-my  foolish  kindness.  Abe  put  no  stock  in  kindness.  When  students  didn't  meet  his  standards  he  said,  &quot;I  was  wrong  about  you.  This  is  no  place  for  you.  I  won't  have  you  around.&quot;  The  feelings  of  the  rejects  didn't  concern  him.  &quot;Better  for  them  if  they  hate  me.  It'll  sharpen  their  minds.  There's  too  much  therapeutic  bullshit,  altogether.&quot;  He  said  that  all  kinds  of  creatures  imposed  on  me  and  wasted  my  time.  &quot;Read  any  good  book  about  Abe  Lin-  coln,&quot;  he  advised  me,  &quot;and  see  how  peo-  ple  bugged  him  about  jobs,  about  war  contracts,  franchises,  consular  appoint-  ments,  and  mad  ideas  during  the  Civil  War.  As  President  of  the  people  he  thought  he  was  obliged  to  talk  to  these  parasites,  creeps,  and  promoters.  All  the  while  he  was  standing  in  a  river  of  blood.  War  measures  made  him  a  ty-  rant-he  had  to  suspend  the  habeas-corpus  writ,  you  know.  There  was  a  higher  thee-ah  thee-  ah  need.  He  had  to  keep  Mary-  land  from  joining  the  Confederacy.&quot;  Of  course,  my  needs  were  different  from  Ravelstein's.  In  my  trade  you  have  to  make  more  allowances,  to  take  all  sorts  of  ambiguities  into  account-to  avoid  hard-edged  judgments.  This  re-  fraining  may  resemble  naiveté.  But  it  isn't  quite  that.  In  art  you  become  familiar  with  due  process.  You  can't  simply  write  people  off  or  send  them  to  Hell.  It  occurs  to  me  that  this  account  of     mine  will  lead  to  charges  of  misanthropy.  Ravelstein  was  anything  but  a  misan-  thrope  or  a  cynic.  He  was  as  generous  as  they  come-a  reservoir,  a  source  of  en-  ergy  for  the  students  he  accepted.  Many  came  to  him  with  the  good  democratic  premise  that  he  should  oblige  them  all  and  share  his  ideas  with  them.  Of  course  he  refused  to  let  himself  be  used,  en-  joyed-tapped  by  idlers.  &quot;I'm  not  the  pipe  at  Saratoga  Springs,  where  the  Bronx  Jews  came  in  summer  with  cups  to  drink  life-giving  water  for  free-a  remedy  for  constipation  or  hardening  of  the  arteries.  I'm  not  a  free  commodity  or  public  giveaway,  a»  I!  Incidentally,  the  wonder-working  water  turned  out  to  be  carcinogenic.  Bad  for  the  liver.  Worse  for  the  pancreas.&quot;  He  laughed  at  this-not  with  pleasure.  Ravelstein's  serious  preoccupations  &quot;coexisted,&quot;  to  borrow  a  word  from  twentieth-century  politics,  with  his  buf-  foonery.  Only  his  friends  saw  this  side  of  him.  He  could  be  correct  enough  on  im-  portant  occasions,  not  as  a  concession  to  academic  fussbudgets  but  because  there  were  real  issues  to  be  considered,  mat-  ters  related  to  the  purpose  of  our  exis-  tence:  say,  the  correct  ordering  of  the  human  soul.  He  was  as  stable  and  earn-  est  as  any  of  the  deepest  and  greatest  of  teachers.  But  even  while  teaching  one  of  his  Platonic  dialogues  he  allowed  himself  to  cut  a  caper.  Abe  had  excellent  friends  in  [REDACTED].  He  was  well  received  by  the  écoles  and  insti-  tuts,  where  he  lectured  on  French  sub-  jects  in  his  own  sort  of  French.  In  the  States,  he  was  controversial.  He  had  more  enemies  at  home  than  any  normal  person  could  want,  especially  among  social  scientists  and  philosophers.  But  I  have  only  the  limited  knowledge  of  these  things  that  a  nonspecialist  can  have.  Abe  Ravelstein  and  I  were  close  friends.  He  was  frank  with  me,  with  all  his  close  friends.  There  were  times  when  I  simply  didn't  know  what  to  make  of  his  confidences.  He  was  too  spirited  to  be  careful.  To  lose  your  head  was  a  great-souled  thing  to  do.  I  sup-  pose,  since  we  sharea  common  human-  ity,  that  even  in  this  age  people  will  un-  derstand  the  term,  though  it  finds  few  illustrations.  Ravelstein  counted  on  this  understanding.  &quot;You  can  do  it  easy,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  I  agreed,  more  or  less.  