   IT  was  true  that  Judge  Martin  Vacek  had  dealt  with  a  number  of  politi-  cal  cases  under  theold  regime,  but,  as  he  was  only  five  years  away  from  re-  tirement  age,  it  was  suggested  that  from  now  on  he  should  deal  exclusively  with  divorce  cases  (which,  in  any  event,  is  what  he  had  done  when  he  first  came  to  the  bench).  He  considered  this  to  be  an  acceptable,  even  sensible,  proposal.  He  could,  of  course,  have  left  the  bench  al-  together,  as  several  of  his  colleagues  had,  and  set  up  privately  as  a  barrister,  which  was  far  more  lucrative.  But  he  was  con-  servative  by  nature  andhad  no  wish  to  alter  his  daily  routine  or  his  regular  jour-  ney  to  work,  let  alone  start  looking  for  and  equipping  private  offices.  None-  theless,  he  consulted  his  wife  about  what  he  should  do.  He  had  been  married  forthirty  years  and  had  stopped  loving  his  wife,  Marie,  long  ago;  in  fact,  he  could  no  longer  re-  member  a  time  when  he  actually  loved  her.  Nevertheless,  they  got  on  fairly  well  together.  His  wife,  who  was  a  year  older  than  he,  came  from  the  country  and  had  only  an  elementary  schooling;  she  had  spent  her  life  working  at  thepost  office forpaltry  wages.  She  did,  however,  have  a  natural  wisdom,  unspoiled  by  legal  training.  Marie  had  plainly  stopped  lov-  ing  him  years  ago,  too,  but  she  looked  after  him  almost  like  a  mother,  cooking  him  good  meals  and  making  sure  that  his  shirts  were  ironed  and  that  he  always  had  a  suitable  tie  to  wear  with  them.  In  the  course  of  their  life  together,  she  was  bound  to  have  influenced  if  not  his  character  then  at  least  his  appearance,  and  since  they  both  favored  the  color  gray  their  very  features  gradually  began  to  take  on  a  gray  cast,  too.  In  recent  years,  each  had  come  to  regard  the  other  as  an  indispensable  part  of  the  household,  particularly  now  that  their  two  sons  had  grown  up  and  moved  away  and  the  apartment  felt  empty,  although  it  was  crammed  with  all  sorts  of  useless  objects  and  knick-  knacks.  They  barely  spoke  anymore,  but  there  had  been  a  time  when  they  went  out  together  to  the  cinema  or  to  con-  certs  (it  was  the  done  thing  for  someone  in  his  position  to  have  a  season  ticket  for  the  Philharmonic),  or  Marie  would  tell  him  about  the  novels  she  was  read-  ing.  Nowadays,  though,  they  simply  ex-  changed  a  few  words  about  food,  shop-  ping,  their  sons,  or  the  weather,or  else  they  watched  television  together  in  si-  lence.  It  therefore  came  as  a  surprise  to  Marie  when  he  asked  her  whether  he  should  remain  on  the  bench  or  start  something  entirely  new.  It  was  not  her  custom  to  contradict  her  husband,  and  in  the  past  when  he  had  asked  her  opinion  she  had  always  tried  to  guess  the  reply  he  wanted  to  hear.  &quot;Divorce  suits,&quot;  she  now  said.  &quot;That  could  be  fairly  interesting  work.  You'll  get  to  hear  lots  of  stories.&quot;  It  had  never  occurred  to  him  to  view  stories  in  his  lifetime  that  they  had  long  since  ceased  to  engage  him.  Nonethe-  CATHERINE  1981&quot;/PACEWILDENSTEINMACGILL  &amp;  RCIA,  0  less,  he  took  his  wife's  opinion  into  account  and  remained  on  the  bench.  As  it  turned  out,  the  cases  tended  to  be  more  banal  than  interesting.  In  most  of  them,  immature  men  had  married  young  women  who  yearned  for  some-  thing  that  their  husbands  could  not  provide,  and  so  in  time  a  third  person  came  along  who  disrupted  what  had  never  been  firmly  established  in  the  first  place.  Even  so,  his  rulings-on  grounds  of  infidelity  or  mutual  incompatibility-  were  often  met  with  tears,  and  Mar-  tin  could  never  rid  himself  of  the  con-  viction  that  most  of  the  divorces  were  unnecessary,  that  people  were  attempt-  ing  to  escape  the  inescapable:  their  own  emptiness,  their  own  incapacity  to  share  their  lives  with  another  person.  HERE  were  so  many  cases  that  they  soon  became  indistinguishable,  and  even  the  people's  faces  slipped  quickly  from  his  memory-which  was  begin-  ning  to  decline  with  age  anyway.  Now  and  then,  however,  an  intriguing  case  would  crop  up,  and  a  face,  a  name,  or  an  occupation  would  stick  in  his  mind.  After  one  such  sitting,  he  emerged  from  the  courtroom  and  found  the  woman  to  whom  he  had  just  given  a  di-  vorce  sitting  on  a  bench  in  the  corridor,  crying.  The  woman's  name  was  Lida  Vachkova,  a  name  that  had  caught  his  eye  because  of  its  resemblance  to  his  own,  quiteapart  from  the  fact  that  the  woman's  distinctive,  delicate  beauty  and  her  timid  replies  to  his  questions  in  court  had  held  his  attention.  He  attrib-  uted  her  delicacy  to  her  profession;  she  was  a  violinist.  Although  it  was  unchar-  acteristic  of  him,  he  stopped  in  front  of  her  and  said,  &quot;Don't  ery,  Mrs.  Vachkova.  No  pain  lasts  forever.&quot;  She  glanced  up  at  him  in  surprise  and  quickly  wipedaway  her  tears.  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  As  shegot  up,  she  started  to  sway  and  he  was  obliged  to  catch  hold  of  her.  &quot;Are  you  feeling  unwell?&quot;  &quot;Do  forgive  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  took  some  tablets  this  morning.  To  calm  my  nerves.&quot;  He  invited  her  into  his  chambers  and  gother  a  glass  of  water.  He  knew  not  only  her  name  and  occupation  but  also  her  age.  Shewas  twenty  years  his  junior,  very  young,  in  his  eyes,  at  least.  He  also  had  met  the  manwho  until  a  short  while  ago  had  been  her  husband.  The  hus-  band,  too,  was  older  than  she  was  (al-  though  at  this  moment  Martin  couldn't  recall  exactly  how  much  older)  and  ran  some  recently  established  entertainment  agency.  A  vulgar,  unpleasant-looking  fel-  low,  he  had  apparently  subjected  his  wife  to  rough  and  domineering  treatment  and  had  tried  to  curb  all  her  enthusi-  asms.  There  were  no  children.  They  had  had  no  problem  agreeing  on  the  division  of  their  property-there  wasn't  very  much  anyway.  She  kept  the  apartment  and  he  moved  in  with  his  mistress.  &quot;Do  you  really  believe  no  pain  lasts  forever?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  ever  have  a  pain  that  went  away?&quot;  He  was  not  accustomed  to  being  cross-examined  and  was  taken  aback.  He  had  to  stop  and  think  for  a  moment  whether  anything  in  his  life  had  caused  him  a  pain  that  had  later  gone  away.  On  the  contrary,  things  in  his  life  had  tended  to  fade  gradually,  without  hurt.  Then  he  recalled  the  death  of  his  par-  ents.  &quot;Even  the  pain  of  death  eventually  goes  away,&quot;  he  said  evasively.  &quot;That's  true,&quot;  she  conceded.  &quot;Though  death  is  a  rather  special  category.&quot;  &quot;What  makes  you  think  so?&quot;  &quot;Death  is  like  the  law.  There  is  no  escape  from  it.  Whereas  love  ...&quot;  She  seemed  to  be  searching  for  a  word  to  ex-  press  the  meaning  of  love,  but  instead  burst  into  tears  once  again.  He  helped  her  to  her  feet  and  saw  her  to  the  door  and  down  the  stairs.  He  then  suggested  they  go  to  a  nearby  wine  bar.  He  wasn't  sure  why  he  was  behaving  in  this  way.  There  must  be  something  about  this  young  woman  that  touched  him,  or  perhaps  it  was  that  he  found  her  attractive.  He  ordered  a  bottle  of  wine  and  let  the  woman  speak  about  her  re-  cent  tribulations,  although  he  took  in  only  a  few  details;  he  was  gazing  at  her  hands,  her  fingers  involuntarily  toying  with  the  napkin.  They  were  so  beauti-  ful  that  he  wanted  to  clasp  them  in  his  and  stroke  them.  From  time  to  time  he  would  interrupt  her  and  tell  her  some  of  the  incidents  he  had  heard  about  in  the  course  of  his  work,  to  reassure  her  that  she  was  far  from  alone  in  her  suffering.  When  they  parted,  an  hour  later,  she  invited  him  to  a  concert  to  be  performed  by  the  orchestra  she  played  in.  She  also,  naturally,  invited  his  wife,  but  in  the  end  he  went  alone.  He  found  it  impossible  to  concentrate  on  themusic;  his  attention  was  focussed  on  her  single  form  in  the  TT  orchestra-the  flickering  movements  of  her  fingers  and  her  fine  bowing-and  he  felt  an  unwonted  emotion.  He  was  as-  tounded  at  himself  and  at  his  feelings,  which  struck  him  as  inappropriate  for  someone  his  age.  But  then  it  occurred  to  him  that  he  had  simply  written  off  certain  emotions  too  soon.  He  found  her  address  and  telephone  number  in  the  case  file.  They  started  to  meet  twice  a  week,  initially  in  a  café  or  a  wine  bar.  He  was  aware  that  because  of  his  profession  she  regarded  him  as  an  expert  on  matters  of  love,  or  rather  on  those  instances  where  love  was  foundering,  and  indeed  when  questioned  he  sought  to  draw  more  gen-  eral  lessons  from  the  cases  that  layin  his  memory.  Even  though  he  had  little  be-  Lief  in  the  possibility  of  people  living  to-  gether  in  love,  he  realized  how  cautious  he  was  in  his  comments,and  how  he  could  speak  about  something  he  had  been  unable  to  achieve  in  his  own  life:  a  relationship  of  mutual  admiration  and  respect  out  of  which  tenderness  grew.  She  listened  to  him  with  an  increasing  hopefulness.  &quot;I  expect  you're  good  at  love,&quot;  she  said  and  gave  his  hand  a  mo-  mentary  squeeze.  &quot;You  strike  me  as  some-  one  who  can  be  tolerant  and  allow  the  other  person  some  space  for  herself.&quot;  He  nodded,  pleased  that  she  should  think  of  him  in  that  way.  Then  she  invited  him  home.  She  lived  in  a  tiny  attic  room,  and  as  he  walked  up  the  many  stairs  (the  house  had  no  elevator)his  legs  were  buckling  under  him  from  excitement  or  maybe  anxiety  at  what  was  certainly  about  to  happen.  The  little  room  had  sloping  walls  and  almost  no  furniture,  just  a  wardrobe,  a  music  stand,  two  chairs,  and  a  large  divan  beneath  a  skylight.  They  made  love  underneath  that  window.  Shewas  slim  and  finely  built  com-  pared  with  his  wife,  and  her  skin  was  smooth,  without  a  single  fold  or  wrinkle.  To  his  surprise,  he  found  tender  words  for  her.  She  listened  to  him,  and  he  had  barely  stopped  speaking  when  she  said,  &quot;More,  please.  I  want  more  of  those  words.&quot;  As  he  was  leaving,  she  asked,  &quot;Will  we  see  each  other  again  some-  time?&quot;  And  he  assured  her  that  he  would  certainly  be  back  soon.  And  so  he  would  visit  her,  bringing  her  flowers,  wine,  and  words  of  tender-  ness.  They  never  spoke  about  her  for-  mer  husband,  andhe  mentioned  his   wife  only  occasionally,  and  always  in  a  way  that  let  Lida  assume  that  his  mar-  riage  was  not  particularly  happy.  As  usu-  ally  happens  when  information  comes  from  one  side  only,  she  would  have  con-  cluded,  had  she  made  the  effort,  that  the  fault  lay  with  his  wife.  On  one  occasion,  when  they  were  again  lying  beneath  the  skylight,  onto  which  the  heavy  drops  of  a  spring  down-  pourwere  falling,  she  asked  him,  &quot;Do  you  love  your  wife  at  all?&quot;  He  said  he  didn't,  that  he  hadn't  loved  her  for  many  years.  Then  for  a  long  time  neither  of  them  said  anything.  She  cuddled  up  to  him  as  he  stroked  her  hips  and  her  belly,  the  softness  of  her  skin  exciting  him  as  always.  &quot;What's  the  point  of  such  a  marriage,  Martin?&quot;  she  asked  abruptly.  The  question  caught  him  unpre-  pared.  He  had  never  considered  the  possibility  that  he  might  leave  his  wife  after  thirty  years  of  living  with  her,  not  even  now,  as  he  lay  at  the  side  of  a  woman  he  had  just  made  love  to.  He  had  long  ceased  wondering  what  bound  him  to  his  wife.  Habit,  perhaps.  So  many  shared  days  and  nights.  Memo-  ries  that  now  felt  like  stories  about  someone  else.  Maybe  the  chairs  they  sat  on,  or  the  familiar  odor  that  wafted  to-  ward  him  the  moment  he  opened  the  door  of  their  apartment.  Maybe  the  sons  they  had  reared.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  tell  me  if  you  don't  want  to,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Maybe,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;so  that  when  I  come  home  in  weather  like  this  I  can  say  to  someone,  'It's  raining  out.'&quot;  &quot;Yes,  that's  a  good  reason,&quot;  she  said,  drawing  away  from  him  slightly.  As  he  was  leaving,  she  didn't  ask,  as  rehearsed  undaunted,  alone.  -Wiruam  BENTON  she  usually  did,  when  they  would  see  each  other  again.  So  he  asked  instead.  &quot;Maybe  never,&quot;  she  said.  Even  so,  she  leaned  toward  him  and  kissed  him.  On  his  way  downstairs,  it  occurred  to  him  that  she  had  been  expecting  a  dif-  ferent  response,  that  he  had  mistaken  the  meaning  of  her  question.  She  had  wanted  to  hear  whether  he  was  prepared  to  leave  his  wife  for  her.  He  was  overcome  by  an  almost  weary  dejection.  He  could  still  turn  back,  ring  her  doorbell,  and  give  her  a  different  an-  swer.  But  what  answer  should  he  give?  So  Judge  Martin  Vacek  went  home.  When  he  opened  the  door  of  his  apartment,  the  familiar  odor  wafted  toward  him.  Marie  came  out  of  the  liv-  ing  room  and  greeted  him  as  usual  with  the  words  &quot;T'll  have  your  dinner  ready  straightaway.&quot;  He  sat  down  at  the  table  and  stared  silently  ahead  of  him.  He  saw  nothing.  On  the  radio  in  the  adjoining  room  someone  was  playing  the  violin.  He  found  the  sound  of  it  so  distressing  that  he  couldhardly  move.  His  wife  placed  a  bow!  of  hot  soup  in  front  of  him.  He  knew  he  ought  to  say  something,  but  he  had  only  an  emptiness  that  en-  gulfed  all  speech.  &quot;It's  raining  out,&quot;  he  said  eventually.  His  wife  looked  toward  the  window  in  surprise.  It  had  stopped  raining  long  ago,  and  the  room  was  suffused  with  the  dark-red  glow  of  the  setting  sun.  It  was  her  custom  not  to  contradict  her  husband,  even  though  he  had  seemed  to  her  more  and  more  absent-minded  lately;  perhaps  old  age  was  beginning  to  affect  his  mind.  &quot;That's  good,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  farmers'  fields  could  do  with  a  bit  of  moisture.&quot; 