 b"ASSET BY DAVID FOSTER WALLACE BENTON  RIDGE,  OH,  06/97  &quot;[J  T's  the  arm.  You  wouldn't  think  of  I  it  as  a  asset  like  that  would  you.  _  But  it's  the  arm.  You  want  to  see  it?  You  won't  getdisgusted?  Well  here  it  is.  Here's  the  arm.  This  is  why  I  go  by  the  name  Johnny  One-Arm.  I  made  it  up,  not  anybody  being,  like,  hard-  hearted-me.  I  see  how  you're  trying  to  be  polite  and  not  look  at  it.  Go  ahead  and  look  though.  It  don't  bother  me.  In-  side  my  head  I  don't  call  it  the  arm  I  call  it  the  Asset.  How  all  would  you  describe  it?  Go  on.  You  think  it'll  hurt  my  feel-  ings?  You  want  to  hear  me  describe  it?  It  looks  like  a  arm  that  changed  its  mind  early  on  in  the  game  when  it  was  in  Mama's  stomach  with  the  rest  of  me.  It's  more  like  a  itty  tiny  little  flipper,  it's  little  and  wet-looking  and  darker  than  the  rest  of  me  is.  It  looks  wet  even  when  it's  dry.  It's  not  a  pretty  sight  at  all.  I  usually  keep  it  in  the  sleeve  until  it's  time  to  haul  it  out  and  use  it  for  the  Asset.  No-  tice  the  shoulder's  normal,  it's  just  like  the  other  shoulder.  It's  just  the  arm.  It'll  only  go  down  to  like  the  titty-nipple  of  F  O  S  T  ER  YA  L  LA  C  E  my  chest  here,  see?  It's  a  little  sucker.  It  ain't  pretty.  It  moves  fine,I  can  move  it  around  fine.  If  you  look  close  here  at  the  end  there's  these  little  majiggers  you  can  tell  started  out  wanting  to  be  fingers  but  didn't  form.  When  I  was  in  her  stom-  ach.  The  other  arm-see?  It's  a  normal  arm,  a  little  muscly  on  account  of  using  it  all  the  time.  It's  normal  and  long  and  the  right  color,  that's  the  arm  I  show  all  the  time,  most  times  I  keep  the  other  sleeve  pinned  up  so  it  don't  look  to  be  even  anything  like  a  arm  in  there  at  all.  It's  strong  though.  The  arm  is.  It's  hard  on  the  eyes  but  it's  strong,  sometimes  I'll  try  and  get  them  to  arm  wrestle  it  to  see  how  strong  it  is.  It's  a  strong  little  flip-  pery  sucker.  If  they  think  they  can  stand  to  touch  it.  I  always  say  if  they  don't  think  they  can  stand  touching  it  why  that's  O.K.,  it  don't  hurt  my  feelings.  You  want  to  touch  it?&quot;  Q.  &quot;That's  all  right.  That  is  all  right.&quot;  Q.  &quot;What  it  is  is-well  first  there's  al-  ways  some  girls  around.  You  know " b" what  I  mean?  At  the  foundry  there,  at  the  Lanes.  There's  a  tavern  right  down  by  the  bus  stop  there.  Jackpot-  that's  my  best  friend-Jackpot  and  Kenny  Kirk-Kenny  Kirk's  his  cousin,  Jackpot's,  that  are  both  over  me  at  the  foundry  cause  I  finished  school  and  didn't  get  in  the  union  till  after-  they're  real  good-looking  and  nor-  mal-looking  and  Good  With  The  Ladies  if  you  know  what  I  mean,  and  there's  always  girls  hanging  back  around.  Like  in  a  group,  a  bunch  or  groupof  all  of  us,  we'll  all  just  hang  back,  drink  some  beers.  Jackpot  and  Kenny're  al-  ways  going  with  one  of  them  or  the  other  and  then  the  ones  they're  going  with  got  friends.  You  know.  A  whole,  say,  groupof  us  there.  You  fol-  low  the  picture  here?  And  I'll  start  hanging  back  with  this  one  or  that  one,  and  after  a  while  the  first  stage  is  I'll  start  in  to  telling  them  how  I  got  the  name  Johnny  One-Arm  and  about  the  arm.  That's  astage  of  the  thing.  Of  getting  some  pussy  using  the  Asset.  I'll  describe  the  arm  while  it's  still  up  in  the  sleeve  and  make  it  sound  like  just  about  the  ugliest  thing  you  ever  did  see.  They'll  get  this  look  on  their  face  like  Oh  You  Poor  Little  Fella  You're  Being  Too  Hard  On  Yourself  You  Shouldn't  Be  Shameful  Of  The  Arm.  So  on.  How  I'm  such  a  nice  young  fella  and  it  breaks  their  heart  to  see  me  talk  about  my  own  part  of  me  that  way  especially  since  it  weren't  any  fault  of  mine  to  get  born  with  the  arm.  At  which  time  when  they  start  with  that  stage  of  it  the  next  stage  is  I  ask  them  do  they  want  to  see  it.  I  say  how  I'm  shameful  of  the  arm  but  somehow  I  trust  them  and  they  seem  real  nice  and  if  they  want  I'll  unpin  the  sleeve  and  let  the  arm  out  and  let  them  look  at  the  arm  if  they  think  they  could  stand  it.  I'll  go  on  about  the  arm  until  they  can't  hardly  stand  to  hear  no  more  about  it.  Sometimes  it's  a  ex  of  Jackpot's  that's  the  one  that  starts  hanging  back  with  me  down  at  Frame  Eleven  over  to  the  Lanes  and  saying  how  I'm  such  a  good  listener  and  sensitive  not  like  Jackpot  or  Kenny  and  she  can't  believe  there's  any  way  the  arm's  as  bad  as     I'm  making  out  and  like  that.  Or  we'll  be  hanging  back  at  her  place  in  the  kitchenette  or  some  such  and  I'll  go  It's  So  Hot  I  Feel  Like  Taking  My  Shirt  Off  But  I  Don't  Want  To  On  Account  Of  I'm  Shameful  Of  The  Arm.  Like  that.  There's  numerous,  like,  stages.  I  never  out  loud  call  it  the  Asset  believe  you  me.  Go  on  and  touch  it  whenever  you  get  a  mind  to.  One  of  the  stages  is  I  know  after  some  time  I  really  am  starting  to  come  off  creepy  to  the  girl,  I  can  tell,  cause  all  I  can  talk  about  is  the  arm  and  how  wet  and  flippery  itis  but  how  it's  strong  but  how  I'd  just  about  up  and  die  if  a  girl  as  nice  and  pretty  and  perfect  as  I  think  she  is  saw  it  and  got  disgusted,  and  I  can  tell  all  the  talk  starts  creeping  them  up  inside  and  they  start  to  secretly  think  I'm  kind  of  a  loser  but  they  can't  back  out  on  me  cause  after  all  here  they  been  all  this  time  saying  all  this  nice  shit  about  what  a  sensitive  young  fella  I  am  and  how  I  shouldn't  be  shameful  and  there's  no  way  the  arm  can  be  that  bad.  In  this  stage  it's  like  they're  com-  mitted  into  a  corner  and  if  they  quit  hanging  backwith  me  now  why  they  know  I  can  go  It  Was  Because  Of  The  Arm.&quot;  Q.  &quot;Usually  longabout  two  weeks,  like  that.  The  next  is  your  critical-type  stage  where  I  show  them  the  arm.  I  wait  tillit's  just  her  and  me  alone  someplace  and  I  haul  the  sucker  out.  I  make  it  seem  like  they  talked  me  into  it  and  now  I  trust  them  and  they're  who  I  finally  feel  like  I  can  let  it  out  of  the  sleeve  and  show  it.  And  I  show  it  to  her  just  like  I  just  did  you.  There's  some  additional  thingstoo  I  can  do  with  it  that  look  even  worse,  make  it  look-see  that?  See  this  right  here?  It's  cause  there  ain't  even  really  a  elbow  bone,  it's  just  a-&quot;  Q.  &quot;Or  some  of  your  ointments  or  Vaseline-type  jelly  on  it  to  make  it  look  even  wetter  and  shinier.  The  arm's  not  a  pretty  sight  at  all  when  I  up  and  haul  it  out  on  them  I'm  telling  you  right  now.  It  just  about  makes  them  puke,  the  sight  of  it  the  way  I  get  it.  Oh  and  a  couple  run  out,  some  skedoodle  right  out  the  door.  But  your  majority?  Your  majority  of  them'll  swallow  hard  a  time  or  two  and  go  Oh  It's  It's  It's  NotToo  Bad  At  All  but  they're  looking  over  all  away  and  try  and  notlook  at  my  face  which  I've  got  this  totally  shy  and  scared  and  trusting  face  on  at  the  time  like  this  one  thing  I  can  do  where  I  can  make  my  lip  even  tremble  a  little.  Ee?  Ee  anh?  And  ever  time  sooner  or  later  within  inside,  like,  five  minutes  of  it  they'll  up  and  start  crying.  They're  in  way  over  their  head,  see.  They're,  like,  committed  into  a  corner  of  saying  how  it  can't  be  that  ugly  and  I  shouldn't  be  shameful  and  then  they  see  it  and  I  see  to  itit  is  ugly,  ugly  ugly  ugly  and  now  what  do  they  do?  Pretend?  Shit  girl  most  of  these  girls  around  here  think  Elvis  is  alive  someplace.  These  are  not  girl  wonders  of  the  brain.  It  breaks  them  down  ever  time.  They  get  even  worse  if  I  ask  them  Oh  Golly  What's  Wrong,  how  come  they're  crying,  Is  It  The  Arm  and  they  have  to  say  It  Ain't  The  Arm,  they  have  to,  they  have  to  try  and  pretend  it  ain't  the  arm  that  it's  how  they  feel  so  sad  for  me  being  so  shameful  of  something  that  ain't  a  big  deal  at  all  they  have  to  say.  Oftentimes  with  their  face  in  their  hands  and  crying.  Your  climactic  stage  then  is  then  I  up  and  come  over  to  where  she's  at  and  sit  down  and  now  I'm  the  one  that's  comforting  them.  A,  like,  factor  here  I  found  out  the  hard  way  is  when  I  go  in  to  hold  them  and  comfort  them  I  hold  them  with  the  good  side.  I  don't  give  them  no  more  of  the  Asset.  The  Asset's  wrapped  back  up  safe  out  of  sight  in  the  sleeve  now.  They're  broke  down  crying  and  I'm  the  one  holding  them  with  the  good  arm  and  go  It's  O.K.  Don't  Cry  Don't  Be  Sad  Being  Able  To  Trust  YouNot  To  Get  Disgusted  By  The  Arm  Means  So  Very  Very  Much  To  Me  Don't  You  See  You  Have  Set  Me  Free  Of  Being  Shameful  Of  The  Arm  Thank  You  Thank  You  and  so  on  while  they  put  their  face  in  my  neck  and  just  ery  and  cry.  Sometimes  they  get  me  crying  too.  You  following  all  this?&quot;  &quot;More  pussy  than  a  toilet  seat,  man.  I  shit  you  not.  Go  on  and  ask  Jackpot  and  Kenny  if  you  want  about  it.  Kenny  Kirk's  the  one  named  it  the  Asset.  You  go  on.&quot;  *  "