'FICTION  THE  HOFZINSER  CLUB  BY  MICHAEL  CHABON     ' b"JOSEF  KAVALIER'S  determination  to  storm  the  exclusive  Hofzinser  Club  of  437a6563686961took  full  form  over  breakfast  one  day  in  1935,  when  he  choked  on  a  mouthful  of  omelette  with  apricot  preserves.  It  was  one  of  those  rare  mornings  at  the  Kavalier  flat-in  a  lacy,  Secession-style  building  on  aquiet  square-when  everyone  sat  down  to  breakfast  together.  Josef's  father  and  mother,  the  two  Doctors  Kavalier,  main-  tained  full  schedules  and,  like  many  busy  parents,  were  inclined  at  once  to  neglect  and  to  indulge  their  children.  Herr  Dr.  Emil  Kavalier  was  the  author  of  &quot;Grund-  sitze  der  Endokrinologie,&quot;  a  standard  text,  and  the  identifier  of  Kavalier's  acro-  megaly;  Frau  Dr.  Anna  Kavalier  was  a  neurologist  by  training,  who  had  been  analyzed  by  Alfred  Adler  and  had  since  gone  on  to  treat,  on  her  paisley  divan,  numbers  of  [REDACTED]'s  young  cathected  women.  That  morning,  when  Josef,  the  elder  son,  suddenly  hunched  forward,  eyes  watering,  scrabbling  for  his  napkin,  his  father  reached  out  from  behind  his  Tageblatt  and  idly  pounded  him  on  the  back.  His  mother,  without  looking  up  from  the  latest  number  of  Monatschrift  fiir  Psychiatrie  und  Neurologie,  reminded  Josef,  for  the  thousandth  time,  not  to  bolt  his  food.  Only  little  Thomas  no-  ticed,  in  the  instant  before  Josef  brought  the  napkin  to  his  lips,  the  glint  of  some-  thing  foreign  in  his  brother's  mouth.  Getting  up  from  the  table,  he  went  around  to  Josef's  place  and  stared  at  his  brother.  Ignoring  him,  Josef  tipped  an-  other  forkful  of  omelette  into  his  mouth.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Thomas  said.  &quot;What  is  what?&quot;  said  Josef.  He  was  a  pale,  freckled  boy,  black-haired,  hand-  some,  with  a  large,  squashed-looking  nose  and  wide-setblue  eyes.  &quot;Go  away.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  lost  a  filling,  Josef?&quot;  asked  Miss  Horne,  Thomas's  governess.  &quot;He  has  something  in  his  mouth,&quot;  said  Thomas.  &quot;It's  shiny.&quot;  Josefstuck  two  fingers  between  his  right  cheek  and  upper  right  gum  and  pulled  out  a  flat  strip  of  metal,  notched  at  one  end:  a  tiny  fork,  no  longer  than  Thomas's  pinky.  &quot;What  is  that?&quot;  his  mother  asked.  Josef  shrugged.  &quot;A  torque  wrench,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  else?&quot;  said  his  father.  &quot;Of  course  it's  a  torque  wrench.&quot;  &quot;Herr  Kornblum  said  I  should  get  used  to  it,&quot;  Josef  explained.  &quot;He  said  that  when  Houdini  died  he  was  found  to  have  worn  away  two  pockets  in  his  cheeks.&quot;  Herr  Dr.  Kavalier  returned  to  his  Tage,  blatt.  &quot;An  admirable  aspiration,&quot;  he  said.  OSEF  had  become  interested  in  stage  magic  as  soon  as  his  hands  grew  large  enough  to  handle  a  deck  of  play-  ing  cards.  In  [REDACTED],  a  city  of  illusionists  and  sleight-of-hand  artists,  it  was  not  difficult  for  a  boy  with  indulgent  parents  to  find  competent  instruction.  He  had  studied  for  a  year  with  a  Czech  named  Bozic,  who  called  himself  Rango  and  specialized  in  card  and  coin  manipula-  tion,  mentalism,  and  the  picking  of  pockets.  He  could  also  cuta  housefly  in  half  with  a  thrown  three  of  diamonds.  Soon  Josef  had  learned  the  Rain  of  Sil-  ver,  the  Dissolving  Kreuzer,  the  Count  Erno  Pass,  arid  rudiments  of  the  Dead  Grandfather,  but  when  it  was  brought  to  the  attention  of  Josef's  parents  that  Rango  had  once  been  jailed,  for  replac-  ing  the  jewelry  and  money  borrowed  from  his  audiences  with  paste  and  blank  paper,  the  boy  was  removed  from  his  tutelage.  The  phantom  aces  and  queens,  show-  ers  of  silver  Kronen,  and  purloined  wristwatches  that  were  Rango's  stock-  in-trade  had  been  fine  for  a  boy's  amuse-  ment.  And  for  Josef  the  long  hours  spent  standing  in  front  of  the  lavatory  mirror,  practicing  slips  and  sleights  that  made  it  possible  to  seem  to  hurl  a  coin  into  the  right  ear,  through  the  brainpan,  and  out  the  left  ear  of  a  chum  or  a  rela-  tive,  or  to  pop  the  knave  of  heartsinto  the  handkerchief  of  a  pretty  girl,  re-  quired  a  masturbatory  intensity  of  con-  centration  that  became  almost  more  pleasurable  than  the  trick  itself.  But  then  a  patient  of  his  father's  supplied  the  name  ofan  illusionist  and  escape  artist  named  Bernard  Kornblum,  which  was  to  change  all  this.  Under  Kornblum's  tutelage,  Josef  began  to  learn  the  rigor  ous  trade  of  the  Ausbrecher,  orescape  artist,  from  the  lips  of  one  of  its  masters.  At  the  age  of  fourteen,  he  determined  to  consecrate  himself  to  a  life  of  timely  escape.  Kornblum  was  an  Eastern  Jew,  bone  thin,  with  a  bushy  red  beard  that  he  tied  up  in  a  black  silk  net  before  every  per-  formance.  &quot;It  distracts  them,&quot;  he  said,  meaning  his  audiences,  whom  he  viewed  with  the  veteran  performer's  admixture  T9  of  wonder  and  disdain.  Kornblum's  fore-  head  was  immense,  his  fingers  long  and  dexterous,  with  knobby,  inelegant  joints,  and  his  cheeks  looked  rubbedand  peel-  ing,as  though  chafed  by  polar  winds.  Although  the  Kavaliers  were  Jewish,  Kornblum  was  among  the  first  Eastern  Jews  whom  Josef  had  encountered.  There  were  Jewish  refugees  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  in  his  parents'  circle,  but  these  were  suave,  Europeanized  doctors  and  musicians  from  large  cities,  who  spoke  French  and  German.  Kornblum,  whose  German  was  awkward  and  Czech  nonexistent,  had  beenborn  in  a  shtetl  outside  Talinn  and  spent  most  of  his  life  wandering  the  provinces  of  Im-  perial  [REDACTED],  playing  the  odeons,  barns,  and  market  squares  of  a  thousand  small  towns  and  villages.  He  wore  suits  of  an  outdated,  pigeon-breasted,  Valentino  cut.  Because  his  diet  consisted  in  large  part  of  tinned  fish-anchovies,  smelts,  sar-  dines,  tunny-his  breath  often  carried  a  rank  marine  tang.  His  Baltic  smell,  his  shopworn  good  manners,  his  Yiddish  made  a  strong  impression  on  Josef.  Twice  a  week  that  spring  and  sum-  mer,  Josef  went  to  Kornblum's  room,  on  the  top  floor  of  a  sagging  house  in  Maisel  Street,  in  the  Josefstadt,  to  be  chained  to  the  radiator  or  tied  hand  and  foot  with  coils  of  thick  hempen  rope.  Kornblum  did  not  at  first  give  him  the  slightest  guidance  on  how  to  escape  these  constraints.  &quot;You  will  pay  attention,&quot;  he  said  on  the  afternoon  of  Josef's  first  lesson  as  he  shackled  him  to  a  bentwood  chair.  &quot;I  assure  you  of  this.  Also  you  will  get  used  to  the  feeling  of  the  chain.  The  chain  is  your  silk  pajamas  now.  It  is  your  mother's  loving  arms.&quot;  Apart  from  the  chair,  an  iron  bed-  stead,  a  wardrobe,  and  a  picture  of  Jerusalem  on  the  east  wall,  the  room  was  almost  bare.  The  only  beautiful  object  was  a  Chinese  trunk  carved  from  some  kind  of  tropical  wood,  as  red  as  raw  liver,  with  thick  brass  hinges  and  a  pair  of  fanciful  brass  locks  in  the  form  of  styl-  ized  peacocks.  The  locks  opened  by  a  system  of  tiny  levers  and  springs  con-  cealed  in  the  jadeeyespots  of  each  peacock's  tail  feathers;  you  pushed  the  fourteen  jade  buttons  in  an  order  that  seemed  to  change  each  time  the  magi-  cian  opened  the  chest.  For  the  first  few  days,  Kornblum  showed  Josef  different  kinds  of  locks  " b"80  that  he  took,  one  by  one,  from  the  chest:  locks  used  to  secure  manacles,  mail-  boxes,  and  ladies'  diaries;  warded  and  pin-tumbler  door  locks;  sturdy  padlocks;  and  combination  locks  removed  from  safes  and  strongboxes.  Wordlessly,  he  would  take  each  of  the  locks  apart,  using  only  a  screwdriver,  and  then  reassemble  them.  Toward  the  end  of  the  hour,  still  without  freeing  Josef,  he  talked  about  the  fundamentals  of  breath  control.  At  last,  in  the  final  minutes  of  the  lesson,  he  would  unchain  his  student,  only  tostuff  him  into  a  plain  pine  box.  &quot;If  you  are  a  claustrophobe,&quot;  he  explained  the  first  time,  &quot;we  must  detect  this  now,  and  not  when  you  lie  in  chains  at  the  bottom  of  the  Moldau,  strapped  inside  a  postman's  bag,  with  your  family  and  neighbors  waiting  for  you  to  swim  out.&quot;  At  the  start  of  the  second  month,  Kornblum  introduced  the  pick  and  the  torque  wrench,  and  set  about  applying  these  wonderful  tools  to  each  of  the  sample  locks  in  the  chest.  His  touch  was  deft  and,  though  he  was  well  past  sixty,  his  hands  steady.  He  would  pick  the  locks,  and  then,  for  Josef's  further  edifi-  cation,  pick  them  again  with  the  works  exposed.  The  locks,  whether  new  or  antique,  English,  German,  Chinese,  or  American,  did  not  resist  his  tinkerings  for  more  than  a  few  seconds.  He  had  in  addition  a  small  library  of  thick,  dusty  volumes,  some  of  them  imprinted  with  the  seal  of  the  [REDACTED]'  dreaded  Cheka,  in  which  were  listed,  in  infinite  columns  of  minuscule  type,  the  com-  bination  formulae  for  thousands  of  the  combination  locks  manufactured  in  Europe  since  1900.  For  weeks,  Josef  pleaded  with  Korn-  blum  to  be  allowed  to  handle  a  pick  himself.  Contrary  to  instructions,  he  had  been  working  over  the  locks  at  home  with  a  hatpin  and  a  spoke  from  a  bicycle  wheel,  with  occasional  success.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  said  Kornblum  at  last.  Handing  Josef  his  pick  and  a  torque  wrench,  he  led  him  to  the  door  of  his  room,  in  which  he  himself  had  installed  a  fine  new  Ritsel  seven-pin  lock.  Then  he  unknotted  his  necktie  and  used  it  to  blindfold  Josef.  &quot;To  see  inside  a  lock  you  don't  use  your  eyes,&quot;  he  said.  Josef  knelt  down  in  darkness  and  felt  for  the  brass-plated  knob.  The  doorknob  was  cold  against  his  cheek.  When  at  last  Kornblum  removed  the  blindfold  and  motioned  for  Josef  to  climb  into  his  cof-  fin,  Josef  had  picked  the  Ritsel  three  times,  the  last  in  under  ten  minutes.  ON  the  day  before  Josef  caused  a  dis-  turbance  at  the  breakfast  table,  he  had  held  out  his  wrists  to  Kornblum,  as  usual,  to  be  cuffed  and  bound,  and  was  startled  by  a  rare  smile.  Kornblum  handed  him  a  small  black  leather  pouch.  Unrolling  it,  Josef  found  that  it  con-  tained  the  tiny  wrench  and  a  set  of  steel  picks-some  no  longer  than  the  wrench,  some  twice  as  long,  with  smooth  wooden  handles.  None  were  thicker  than  a  broom  straw.  Their  tips  had  been  cut  and  bent  into  all  manner  of  cunning  moons,  diamonds,  and  tildes.  &quot;I  made  these,&quot;  said  Kornblum.  &quot;They  will  be  reliable.&quot;  &quot;For  me?  For  me  to  use?&quot;  &quot;This  is  what  we  will  now  deter-  mine,&quot;  Kornblum  said.  He  pointed  to  his  bed,  where  he  had  laid  out  a  pair  of  brand-new  German  handcuffs  and  his  best  American  Yale  locks.  &quot;Fix  me  to  the  chair.&quot;  Over  the  next  two  hours  Kornblum  allowed  himself  to  be  repeatedly  bound  to  the  legs  of  the  chair  with  a  length  of  heavy  chain;  other  chains  secured  the  chair  to  the  radiator,  and  the  radiator  to  his  neck.  His  hands  were  cuffed-  in  front  of  his  body,  so  that  he  could  smoke.  Without  a  word  from  Korn-  blum,  Josef  got  the  handcuffs  and  all  but  one  of  the  locks  off  within  fifteen  minutes.  But  the  last  lock,  a  one-pound  1927  Yale  Dreadnought,  with  six-  teen  pins  and  drivers,  frustrated  his  efforts.  Josef  sweated  and  cursed  un-  der  his  breath,  in  Czech,  so  as  not  to  offend  his  master.  Kornblum  lit  another  Sobranie.  &quot;The  pins  have  voices,&quot;  he  reminded  Josef  at  last.  &quot;The  pick  is  a  tiny  tele-  phone  wire.  The  tips  of  your  fingers  have  ears.&quot;  Josef  took  another  breath,  slid  a  pick  tipped  with  a  small  squiggle  into  the  plug  of  the  lock,  and  again  ap-  plied  the  wrench.  Quickly  he  stroked  the  pick  back  and  forth  across  the  pins,  feel-  ing  each  one  give  in  its  turn,  gauging  the  resistance  of  the  drivers  and  springs.  Each  lock  had  its  own  point  of  equi-  librium  between  torque  and  friction.  If  you  turned  too  hard,  the  plug  would  jam;  too  softly  and  the  pins  wouldn't  catch  properly.  With  sixteen  pin  columns,  finding  the  point  of  equilibrium  became  a  matter  of  intuition  and  style.  Closing  his  eyes,  Josef  heard  the  wire  of  the  pick  humming  in  his  fingertips.  With  a  satisfying  metallic  " b"THE  HOFZINSER  CLUB  gurgle  the  lock  sprang  open.  Kornblum  nodded,  stood  up,  stretched.  &quot;You  may  keep  the  tools,&quot;  he  said.  HOMAS  KAVALIER,  Josef's  younger  brother,  was  an  animated  gnome  of  a  boy,  with  thick  black  hair.  When  he  was  still  very  young,  he  had  exhibited  the  musical  chromosome  of  his  mother's  family  and  begun  to  regale  dinner  guests  withstormy  arias,  sung  in  a  complicated  gibberish  Italian.  During  a  family  holi-  day  at  Lugano,  when  he  was  ten,  he  was  discovered  to  have  acquired  enough  ac-  tual  Italian  from  his  perusal  of  favorite  librettos  to  be  ableto  converse  with  the  hotel  waiters.  Constantly  called  upon  to  perform  in  his  brother's  productions,  pose  for  his  sketches,  and  vouch  for  his  Ties,  he  had  developed  a  theatrical  flair.  In  tribute  to  Josef,  Thomas  held  the  memory  of  Houdini  in  great  esteem.  In  a  ruled  school  notebook  he  had  recently  writtenthe  first  lines  of  the  libretto  for  an  opera,  &quot;Houdini,&quot;  set  in  fabulous  Chica-  go.  He  was  hampered  in  this  project  by  the  fact  that  he  had  never  seen  an  escape  artist  perform.  In  his  imagination  Houdi-  ni's  deeds  were  far  grander  than  anything  that  even  the  former  Mr.  Erich  Weiss  himself  could  have  conceived:  leaps  in  suits  of  armor  from  flaming  airplanes  over  Africa,  and  escapes  from  hollow  balls  launched  into  sharks'  dens  by  under-  sea  cannons.  The  reality  of  Josef's  home-  work,  assigned  by  his  escape  instructor,  Herr  Kornblum-the  endless  tinkering  with  locks  and  knots  that  Thomas  had  covertly  witnessed,  night  after  night,  in  the  faint  lamplight  of  the  bedroom  the  boys  shared-was  far  less  interesting  to  him  than  his  brother's  earlier  interest  in  coin  tricks  and  card  magic  had  been.  Josef's  sudden  entrance  at  breakfast  that  morning  into  territory  once  occu-  pied  by  Houdini  marked  a  great  day  in  Thomas's  childhood.  After  their  parents  had  left-the  mother  for  her  office  on  N&amp;\xc3\xa9rodni  Street,  the  father  to  catch  a  train  for  Brno,  where  he  had  been  called  in  to  consult  on  the  mayor's  giantess  daughter-T  homas  would  not  leave  Josef  alone  about  Houdini  and  his  cheeks.  &quot;Could  he  have  fitted  a  two-koruna  piece?&quot;  he  wanted  to  know.  He  lay  on  his  bed,  watching  as  Josef  returned  the  torque  wrench  tohis  special  wallet.  &quot;Yes,  but  why  might  he  have  wanted  to?&quot;  &quot;What  about  a  box  of  matches?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.&quot;  &quot;How  would  they  have  stayed  dry?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  he  wrapped  them  in  oilcloth.&quot;  &quot;What  else  does  Herr  Kornblum  want  you  to  put  in  there?&quot;  &quot;I'm  learning  to  be  an  escape  artist,  not  a  valise,&quot;  Josef  said  irritably.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  get  to  do  a  real  es-  cape  now?&quot;  &quot;T'  closer  today  than  I  was  yesterday.&quot;  &quot;And  then  you'll  be  able  to  join  the  Hofzinser  Club?&quot;  Josef  rolled  his  eyes,  sorry  he  had  ever  told  Thomas  about  the  Hofzinser.  It  was  a  private  men's  club,  in  one  of  the  Old  Town's  back  streets,  that  combined  the  functions  of  canteen,  craft  guild,  and  rehearsal  hall  for  the  performing  magi-  cians  of  Bohemia.  Herr  Kornblum  took  his  evening  meal  there  nearly  every  night,  and  Josef  had  begun  to  believe  that  it  was  a  living  repository  for  the  ac-  cumulated  magical  lore  of  centuries.  Josef  wanted  badly  to  be  invited  to  join  but  had  tried  to  keep  such  wishes  to  himself.  Thomas,  for  his  part,  filled  his  own  mind  with  Byzantine,  houri-and-  candied-figs-haunted  visions  of  men  in  cutaway  coats  and  pasha  pants  walking  around  in  the  Hofzinser  with  their  upper  torsos  magically  separated  from  their  lower,  while  they  summoned  leop-  ards  and  lyrebirds  out  of  the  air.  &quot;When  the  time  comes,  I  will  receive  my  invitation,&quot;  Josef  said.  &quot;But  what  if  you  did  something  really  grand,  to  amaze  them?&quot;  Thomas  said.  &quot;We  could  throw  you  out  of  an  airplane,  tied  to  a  chair,  with  the  parachute  tied  to  another  chair,  falling  through  the  air.  Like  this.&quot;  Thomas  scrambled  up  from  his  bed  and  went  over  to  his  small  desk,  took  out  the  blue  notebook  in  which  he  had  composed  &quot;Houdini,&quot;  and  opened  it  to  a  back  page,  where  he  had  sketched  the  scene.  Here  was  Houdini,  in  dinner  jacket  and  parachute,  hurtling  down-  ward  from  a  crooked  airplane,  in  com-  pany  with  two  chairs,  a  table,  and  a  tea  set,  all  trailing  scrawls  of  velocity.  The  magician  had  a  smile  on  his  face  as  he  poured  tea.  He  appeared  to  have  all  the  time  in  theworld.  &quot;This  is  idiotic,&quot;  Josef  said.  &quot;What  do  I  know  about  parachutes?  Who's  going  to  let  me  jump  out  of  an  airplane?&quot;  Thomas  blushed.  &quot;How  childish  of  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Never  mind,&quot;  said  Josef.  He  stood" b" up.  &quot;Listen,  weren't  you  playing  with  Papa's  old  things  just  now,  his  medical-  school  things?&quot;  &quot;Right  here,&quot;  Thomas  said.  He  threw  himself  onto  the  floor  and  rolled  un-  der  the  bed.  A  moment  later,  a  small  wooden  crate  emerged,  covered  in  dust-  furred  silk,  its  lid  hinged  on  crooked  loops  of  wire.  Josef  knelt  down  on  the  floor  and  lifted  the  lid,  revealing  odd  bits  of  appa-  ratus  and  scientific  supplies  that  had  sur-  vived  their  father's  medical  education.  Adrift  in  ancient  excelsior  were  a  broken  Erlenmeyer  flask,  a  pear-shaped  glass  tube  with  a  penny-head  stopper,  a  pair  of  crucible  tongs,  the  leather-clad  box  that  contained  the  remains  of  a  portable  Zeiss  microscope.  &quot;Wasn't  there  ..  .&quot;  Josef  dug  deep  into  the  rustling  pile  of  shavings.  &quot;Didn't  we  used  to  have  ...&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Thomas  slid  out  from  under  the  bed.  Josef  held  up  along,  glinting  glass  wand  and  brandished  it,  as  Kornblum  himself  might  have  done.  &quot;A  thermometer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  for?  Whose  temperature  are  you  going  to  take?&quot;  &quot;The  river's,&quot;  Josef  said.  A&quot;  four  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  Friday,  September  27,  1935,  the  temperature  of  the  water  of  the  River  Vitava,  black  as  a  church  bell  and  ring-  ing  against  the  stone  embankment  at  the  north  end  of  Kampa  [REDACTED],  in  the  heart  of  [REDACTED],  stood  at  12.2\xc2\xb0  on  the  Celsius  scale.  The  night  was  moonless,  and  a  fog  lay  over  the  river  like  an  arras  drawn  across  by  a  conjurer's  hand.  The  Kavalier  brothers  had  come  prepared  for  cold  weather.  They  were  dressed  in  wool  from  head  to  toe,  with  two  pairs  of  socks  each.  In  the  pack  Josef  wore  on  his  back,  he  carried  a  piece  of  rope,  a  length  of  chain,  the  thermometer,  half  a  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  19.  1999  veal  sausage,  a  padlock,  and  a  change  of  clothes  for  himself  with  two  extra  pairs  of  socks.  He  also  carried  a  portable  coal-  oil  brazier,  borrowed  from  an  alpinist  school  friend.  Although  he  did  not  plan  to  spend  much  time  in  the  water-no  longer  than  a  minute  and  twenty-seven  seconds-he  had  been  practicing  for  the  past  week  in  a  bathtub  filled  with  cold  water,  and  he  knew  that  even  in  the  steam-heated  comfort  of  the  bathroom  at  home  it  took  several  minutes  after  each  dip  to  rid  oneself  of  chill.  In  all  his  life,  Thomas  had  never  been  up  so  early.  He  had  never  seen  the  streets  of  [REDACTED]  so  empty,  the  housefronts  sunk  in  gloom  like  a  row  of  lanterns  with  the  wicks  snuffed.  The  corners  he  knew,  the  shops,  the  carved  lions  on  a  balustrade  that  he  passed  daily  on  his  way  to  school  looked  strange  and  momentous.  Light  spread  in  a  feeble  vapor  from  the  street  lamps,  and  the  corners  were  flooded  with  shadow.  He  kept  imagining  that  he  would  turn  and  see  their  father  chasing  after  them,  in  his  dressing  gown  and  slippers.  Josef  walked  quickly,  and  Thomas  had  to  hurry  to  keep  up  with  him.  Cold  air  burned  his  cheeks.  They  stopped  several  times,  to  lurk  in  a  door-  way  or  take  shelter  behind  the  swelling  fender  of  a  parked  Skoda.  They  passed  the  open  side  door  of  a  bakery  and  Thomas  was  briefly  overwhelmed  by  whiteness:  a  tiled  white  wall,  a  pale  man  dressed  all  in  white,  a  cloud  of  flour  hov-  ering  over  a  shining  white  mountain  of  dough.  To  Thomas's  astonishment,  it  turned  out  that  there  were  people  about  at  this  hour:  cabdrivers,  two  drunken  men  singing,  even  a  woman  in  a  long  black  coat  crossing  the  Charles  Bridge.  He  began  to  be  sorry  he  had  come  along.  He  wished  he  had  never  given  Josef  the  idea  of  proving  his  mettle  to  the  members  of  the  Hofzinser  Club.  It  was  not  that  he  doubted  his  brother's  ability.  He  was  just  afraid-of  the  night,  of  the  shadows,  of  drunks  and  ladies  in  overcoats,  and  especially,  on  this  morn-  ing,  of  the  river,  darker  than  anything  else  in  [REDACTED].  Josef,  forhis  part,  was  afraid  only  of  being  stopped  in  this  critical  re-  hearsal.  There  could  be  nothing  illegal,  he  reasoned,  about  tying  yourself  up  in  a  laundry  bag  and  then  trying  to  swim  out.  He  supposed  he  might  be  detained  for  swimming  in  the  Vitava  out  of  sea-  son,  but  he  was  on  atight  schedule.  " b"THE  HOFZINSER  CLUB  Yesterday  he  had  mailed  an  invitation  to  the  president  of  the  Hofzinser  Club:  The  honored  members  of  the  Hofzinser  Club  are  cordially  invited  to  witness  another  astounding  feat  of  autoliberation  by  that  prodigy  of  escapistry  CAVALIERIT  at  Charles  Bridge  Sunday,  29  September  1935  at  half  past  four  in  the  morning.  He  was  pleased  with  the  wording,  but  it  left  him  only  two  days  to  get  ready.  For  the  past  weeks  he  had  been  picking  locks  with  his  hands  immersed  in  a  sinkful  of  cold  water,  and  wriggling  free  of  his  ropes  and  loosing  his  chains  in  the  bathtub.  Tonight  he  would  per-  form  the  &quot;feat  of  autoliberation&quot;  from  the  shore  of  Kampa.  Then,  two  days  later,  if  all  went  well,  he  would  have  Thomas  push  him  over  the  railing  of  the  Charles  Bridge.  He  had  no  doubt  that  he  would  be  able  to  pull  off  the  trick,.  Holding  his  breath  for  a  minute  and  a  half  posed  no  difficulty  for  him.  Thanks  to  Kornblum's  training,  he  could  go  for  nearly  twice  that  time  without  drawing  a  breath.  Twelve  degrees  Cel-  sius  was  colder  than  the  water  in  the  pipes  at  home,  but,again,  he  was  not  planning  to  stay  in  it  for  long.  A  razor  blade,  for  cutting  the  laundry  sack,  was  safely  concealed  between  layers  of  the  sole  of  his  left  shoe,  and  Kornblum's  torque  wrench  and  a  miniature  pick  were  housed  so  comfortably  in  his  cheeks  that  he  was  barely  aware  of  them.  Josef  had  made  the  pick  him-  self  from  the  wire  bristle  of  a  street-  sweeper's  push  broom.  Such  considera-  tions  as  the  impact  of  his  head  on  the  water  or  on  one  of  the  stone  piers  of  the  bridge,  his  paralyzing  sudden  sthgefright  in  front  of  that  eminent  audience,  or  helplessly  sinking  did  not  break  in  upon  his  id\xc3\xa9e  fixe.  Josef  knelt  and  held  a  match  to  the  brazier,  turned  it  on,  and  heard  it  come  hissing  to  life.  There  was  a  comfort  in  its  merry  light.  &quot;I'm  ready,&quot;  he  said.  He  stood  up.  &quot;Help  me  into  the  bag.&quot;  He  picked  up  the  laundry  sack  they  had  pilfered  from  the  housekeeper's  closet,  held  it  open,  and  stepped  into  its  wide  mouth  as  though  into  apair  of  trousers.  Then  he  took  the  length  of  chain  Thomas  offered  him  and  wrapped  it  around  his  ankles  three  times,  before  linking  the  ends  with  a  heavy  Ritsel  he  had  bought  from  an  ironmonger.  Now  he  held  out  his  wrists  to  Thomas,  who,  as  he  had  been  instructed,  bound  them  together  with  the  rope  and  tied  it  tightly  in  a  hitch  and  a  pair  of  square  knots.  Josef  crouched  down,  and  Thomas  cinched  the  sack  closed  over  his  head.  &quot;On  Sun-  day,  with  the  Hofzinser  here,  we'll  have  you  put  chains  and  locks  on  the  cord,&quot;  Josef  said,  his  voice  now  muffled.  &quot;But  how  will  you  get  out?&quot;  &quot;They'll  be  just  for  effect.  I'm  not  coming  out  that  way.&quot;  The  bag  suddenly  ballooned,  and  Thomas  took  a  step  backward.  Inside  the  sack,  Josef  was  bent  forward  and  reaching  out  with  both  arms,  seeking  the  ground.  The  bag  toppled  over.  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  &quot;I'm  fine.  Roll  me  into  the  water.&quot;  Thomas  looked  at  the  misshapen  bundle  at  his  feet.  It  looked  too  small  to  contain  his  brother.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  to  his  surprise.  &quot;Thomas,  please.  You're  my  assistant.&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  not.  I'm  not  even  on  the  invitation.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry  about  that,&quot;  said  Josef.  &quot;I  forgot.&quot;  He  waited.  &quot;Now  roll  me.&quot;  &quot;The  sack  is  too  small  The  chain  will  pull  you  down,&quot;  Thomas  said.  He  knelt  down  and  started  to  uncinch  the  sack.  &quot;You  have  to  come  out.&quot;  Lying  on  his  back,  peering  out  through  the  suddenly  reopened  mouth  of  the  sack,  Josef  shook  his  head.  &quot;Come  on!  Tie  it  back  up.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  scary,&quot;  Thomas  said.  &quot;What  about  the  Hofzinser  Club,  eh?  Don't  you  want  me  to  take  you  to  dinner  there?  Belly  dancers.  Turkish  delight.&quot;  &quot;Josef!  Is  your  mouth  bleeding?&quot;  &quot;God  damn  it,  Thomas,  tie  up  the  God-damned  sack!&quot;  Thomas  recoiled.  Quickly  he  bent  and  cinched  the  sack,  and  rolled  his  brother  into  the  river.  The  splash  startled  him  and  he  burst  into  tears.  An  oval  of  |-  ripples  spread  across  the  dark  surface  of  the  water.  For  a  frantic  instant  Thomas  paced  back  and  forth  on  the  embanlc-  ment,  still  hearing  the  explosion  of  water.  The  cuffs  of  his  trousers  were  drenched,  and  cold  water  seeped  in  around  the  sides  of  his  shoes.  He  had  thrown  his  own  brother  into  the  river,  drowned  him  like  a  litter  of  kittens.  The  next  thing  Thomas  knew  he  was  on  the  Charles  Bridge,  running  past  the  bridge's  statues,  headed  for  home.  But " b"84  as  he  was  passing  St.  Christopher  he  thought  he  heard  something.  He  darted  to  the  bridge  parapet  and  looked  over.  He  could  just  make  out  the  faint  glow  of  the  brazier  on  the  embankment.  The  surface  of  the  river  was  unbroken.  Thomas  ran  to  the  stairway  that  led  back  to  the  island.  As  he  passed  the  round  bollard  at  the  stairhead  the  slap  of  hardmarble  against  his  palm  seemed  to  exhort  him  to  brave  the  stony  black  wa-  ter.  He  scrambled  down  the  stone  stairs  two  at  a  time,  slid  down  the  embank-  ment,  and  fell  headlong  into  the  Vitava.  &quot;Josef!&quot;  he  called,  just  before  his  mouth  filled  with  water.  All  this  while,  Josef,  blind,  trussed,  and  stupid  with  cold,  was  madly  holding  his  breath  as,  oneby  one,  the  elements  of  his  trick  went  awry.  When  he  held  out  his  hands  to  Thomas  he  had  crossed  his  wrists  at  the  bony  outer  knobs,  then  flattened  their  soft  inner  sides  together  after  he  was  tied,  but  the  rope  seemed  to  have  contracted  in  the  water,  doing  away  with  this  half-inch  of  wriggling  room,  and,  in  apanic  that  he  had  never  thought  possible,  he  felt  almost  a  full  minute  slip  away  before  he  could  free  his  hands.  This  triumph  calmed  him  some-  what.  He  fished  the  wrench  and  pick  from  his  mouth  and,  holding  them  care-  fully,  reached  down  through  the  dark-  ness  for  the  chain  around  his  legs.  Korn-  blum  had  warned  him  against  the  tight  grip  of  the  amateur  picklock,  and  he  was  shocked  when  the  wrench  twisted  like  the  stemof  a  watch  and  spun  out  of  his  fingers.  He  wasted  fifteen  seconds  grop-  ing  after  it  and  then  required  another  twenty  or  thirty  to  slip  the  pick  into  the  lock.  His  fingertips  were  deadened  by  the  cold,  and  only  by  some  random  vi-  bration  in  the  wire  did  he  manage  to  hit  the  pins,  set  the  drivers,  and  twist  the  plug  of  the  lock.  This  same  numbness  helped  him  when,  reaching  for  the  razor  in  his  shoe,  he  sliced  open  the  tip  of  his  right  index  finger.  Though  he  could  see  nothing,  he  knew  that  the  dark  hum-  ming  stuff  around  him  now  bore  a  thread  of  blood.  Kicking  his  feet  in  their  heavy  shoes  and  two  pairs  of  socks,  he  burst  to  the  surface.  Three  and  a  half  minutes  had  gone  by  since  he  had  tumbled  into  the  river,  and  only  Kornblum's  exercises  and  a  miracle  of  habit  had  kept  him  from  exhaling  the  last  atom  of  oxygen  in  his  lungs.  Gasping  now,  he  clambered  up  the  embankment  and  crawled  on  his  hands  and  knees  toward  the  brazier.  The  smell  of  coal  oil  was  like  the  odorof  hot  bread,  of  warm  summer  pavement.  He  sucked  up  deep  barrelfuls  of  air.  The  world  seemed  to  pour  into  sight:  spidery  trees,  fog,  the  flickering  lamps  strung  along  the  bridge.  Abruptly,  he  was  sick,  and  spat  up  something  bitter  and  shameful  and  hot.  He  wiped  his  lips  with  the  sleeve  of  his  wet  wool  shirt  and  felt  a  little  better.  Then  he  realized  that  his  brother  had  disappeared.  Shivering,  he  stood  up,  his  clothes  hanging  heavy  as  chain  mail,  andsaw  Thomas,  in  the  shadow  of  the  bridge,  chopping  clumsily  at  the  water,  paddling,  gasping,  drowning.  Josef  went  back  in.  The  water  was  as  cold  as  before  but  he  did  not  feel  it.  As  he  swam  he  felt  something  fingering  him,  plucking  at  his  legs,  trying  to  snatch  him  under:  the  earth's  gravity,  or  perhaps  only  the  swift  Vitava  current.  When  Thomas  saw  Josef  splashing  toward  him  he  burst  into  tears.  &quot;Keep  crying,&quot;  Josef  said  as  he  reached  him.  &quot;That's  good.&quot;  He  got  an  arm  around  his  brother's  waist,  and  then  tried  to  drag  them-  Thomas  and  his  ponderous  self-back  toward  the  Kampa  embankment.  As  they  splashed  and  wrestled  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  they  kept  talking,  though  neither  could  remember  later  what  the  subject  of  the  discussion  had  been.  Whatever  it  was,  it  struck  them  both  afterward  as  having  been  something  calm  and  leisurely,  like  the  murmurs  between  them  that  sometimes  preceded  sleep.  At  a  certain  point,  Josef  realized  that  his  Timbs  felt  warm  now,  even  hot,  and  that  he  was  drowning.  His  last  conscious  perception  was  of  Bernard  Kornblum  cutting  through  the  water  toward  them,  his  bushy  beard  tied  up  ina  hairnet.  OSEF  came  to  an  hour  later,  in  his  bed  at  home.  It  took  two  more  days  for  Thomas  to  revive,  and  for  most  of  that  time  no  one,  least  of  all  his  doctor  par-  ents,  expected  that  he  would.  He  was  never  quite  the  same  afterward.  He  could  not  bear  cold  weather,  and  he  suf-     fered  from  a  lifelong  snuffle.  Also,  per-  haps  because  of  damage  to  his  ears,  he  lost  his  taste  for  music;  the  libretto  for  &quot;Houdini&quot;  was  abandoned.  The  magic  lessons  were  broken  off-  at  the  request  of  Bernard  Kornblum.  Throughout  the  difficult  weeks  that  followed  the  escapade,  Kornblum  was  a  model  of  correctness  and  concern,  bringing  toys  and  games  for  Thomas,  interceding  on  Josef's  behalf  with  the  Kavaliers,  shouldering  all  the  blame.  The  Doctors  Kavalierbelieved  their  sons  when  they  said  that  he  had  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  incident,  but  Kornblum  told  them  that  his  time  with  Josef  had  come  to  an  end.  He  had  never  had  so  gifted  a  student,  but  his  own  dis-  cipline-which  was  really  an  escape  artist's  sole  possession-had  not  been  passed  along.  He  didn't  tell  them  what  he  now  privately  believed:  that  Josef  was  one  of  those  unlucky  boys  who  become  escape  artists  not  to  prove  the  superior  machinery  of  their  bodies  against  out-  landish  contrivances  and  the  laws  of  physics  but  for  dangerously  metaphorical  reasons.  Such  people  feel  imprisoned  by  invisible  chains-walled  in,  sewn  up  in  layers  of  batting.  For  them  the  final  feat  of  autoliberation  was  all  too  foreseeable.  Two  weeks  later,  when  Thomas  had  recovered,  Kornblum  called  at  the  flat  to  escort  the  brothers  to  dinner  at  the  Hofzinser  Club.  It  turned  out  to  be  a  quite  ordinary  place,  with  a  cramped,  dimly  lit  dining  room  that  smelled  of  liver  and  onions.  There  was  a  small  li-  brary,  with  a  few  dozen  moldering  vol-  umes  on  deception  and  forgery.  In  the  lounge,  an  electric  fire  cast  a  neglible  glow  over  scattered  armchairs  covered  in  worn  velour,  and  a  few  potted  palms  and  dusty  rubber  trees.  An  old  waiter  named  Max  made  some  ancient  hard  candies  fall  clumsily  out  of  his  handkerchief  into  Thomas's  lap.  The  magicians,  for  their  part,  barely  glanced  up  from  their  chess-  boards  and  silent  rubbers  of  bridge.  Their  playing  cards  were  devastated  by  years  of  crimps,  breaks,  and  palmings  at  the  hands  of  bygone  cardsharps.  Since  neither  Kornblum  nor  Josef  possessed  any  conversational  skills,  it  fell  upon  Thomas  to  carry  the  burden  of  talk  at  the  table,  which  he  dutifully  did,  until  oneof  the  members,  an  oldnecro-  mancer  dining  alone  at  the  next  table,  told  him  to  shut  up.  At  nine  o'clock,  Kornblum  brought  the  boys  home.  \xc2\xa2  "