 &quot;HE  autumn  I  was  seventeen  Rich-  ard  Nixon  made  a  visit  to  our  town,  at  the  westernedgeof  Cape  Cod,  and  I  went  to  see  him  with  my  father,  who  thought  the  President  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  would  weather  Wa-  tergate  like  any  other  storm,  and  with  my  mother,  who  was  waiting  for  him  to  fall.  This  was  in  1973.  In  June  of  theyear  before,  five  men  had  been  caught  be-  hind  a  locked  door  at  the  Democratic  National  Committee  headquarters,  in  the  Watergate  Hotel;  in  September,  Spiro  Agnew  claimed  the  incident  was  a  set-  up;  in  October,  the  Washington  Post  said  it  had  actually  been  controlled  and  paid  for  by  the  Attorney  General.  In  Novem-  ber,  my  father  sold  a  French  restaurant  near  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  moved  my  mother  and  me  fifteen  miles  south,  onto  the  wide,  landward  edge  of  Cape  Cod,  at  about  the  same  time  Nixon  himself  be-  gan  drawing  his  own  guard  in  around  him.  For  most  of  my  life  my  father  had  been  opening  and  closing  French  bistros  in  New  England,  starting  in  Manchester,  New  Hampshire,  and  moving  us  south  and  east  every  year  or  so,  ahead  of  a  string  of  break-  evens  and  failures  and  a  few  flamboyant  successes  that  left  him  flush  with  money  and  hope.  Even  if  the  restaurants  were  profitable,  he  closed  them-he  knew  that  almost  all  of  them  would  fail  eventually-  selling  the  checkered-tablecloth  establish-  ments  to  Canadian  families  and  the  white-  tablecloth  ones  to  the  South  [REDACTED]  investors  who  followed  him  like  hyenas  in  worsted  suits.  My  father  made  money  and  lost  money  more  or  less  evenly  overthe  course  of  his  life,  but  in  the  end  he  was  more  afraid  of  dying  penniless,  heonce  told  me,  than  he  was  hopeful  of  getting  rich.  Every  businessman  hasa  flaw,  he  used  to  say,  and  every  business  is  doomed.  Tim-  ing  was  everything.  My  father  was  a  stern  man  of  con-  stant  pedagogy,  but  restless,  and  in  mid-  dle  age  he  grew  to  possess  a  stormy  tem-  perament  that  combined  with  his  head-  long  optimism  in  a  way  that  made  him  very  persuasive  to  an  adolescent  boy.  From  theage  of  eleven  I  had  been  the  dishwasher  inhis  restaurants.  He  had  taught  me  to  work  hard,  to  open  every  door,  to  move  on  without  fear.  I  listened  to  the  hard-bitten  philosophy  he  offered  as  he  cooked,  and  I  counted  the  entr\xc3\xa9es  he  sold  by  the  plates  that  came  in.  His  dark  moods  I  learned  to  respect.  His  op-  timism  I  craved,  though  I  think  I  sus-  pected  eventhen  that  I  would  never  truly  know  it  myself.  He  was  the  son  of  a  diemaker  for  Mid-Continental  Electric  Motor,  in  Dearborn,  [REDACTED],  and  un-  ambivalent  about  what  he  wanted.  There  was  money  in  [REDACTED];  it  was  a  few  miles  east  of  us  and  a  few  months  down  the  road.  That's  where  we  were  going.  "