"DONALD ANTRIM AN ACTOR PREPARES LEE STRASBERG,  a  founder  of  the  Group  L  Theatre  and  the  great  teacher  of  the  American  Method,  famously  advised  his  students  never  to  &quot;use&quot;-  for  generating  tears,  etc.,  in  a  dramatic  scene-personal/historical  material  less  than  seven  years  in  the  personal/histori-  cal  past;  otherwise,  the  Emotion  Mem-  ory  (the  death  of  a  loved  one  or  some  like  event  in  the  actor's  life  that  can,  when  evoked  through  recall  and  substi-  tution,  hurl  open  the  floodgates,  as  they  say,  right  on  cue,  night  after  night,  even  during  a  long  run)-this  material,  being  Loo  close,  as  it  were,  might  overwhelm  the  artist  and  compromise  the  total  control  required  to  act  the  part  or,  more  to  the  point,  act  it  well;  might,  in  fact,  destabi-  lize  the  play;  if,  for  instance,  at  the  mo-  ment  in  a  scene  when  it  becomes  neces-  sary  for  Nina  or  Gertrude  or  Macduff  to  wipe  away  tears  and  get  on  with  life;  if,  at  that  moment,  it  becomes  impossi-  ble  for  a  wailing  performer  to  pull  it  to-  gether;  if,  in  other  words,  the  performer  remains  trapped  in  affect  long  after  the  character  has  moved  on  to  dinner  or  the  battlefield-when  this  happens,  then  you  can  be  sure  that  delirious  theatrical  mayhem  will  follow.  What  is  the  point  in  all  this?  Stras-  berg  was  wrong.  Seven  years  are  not  enough,  a  fact  I  discovered  recently  dur-  ing  a  twilight  performanceof  &quot;A  Mid-  summer  Night's  Dream,&quot;  presented  on  the  college  green  to  commemorate  the  founding,  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  by  the  Reverend  William  Trevor  Barry-my  great-great-grandfather  on  my  father's  side-of  the  small  liberal-  arts  institution  that  bears  our  family's  name  and  our  seal.  I  am  Reginald  Barry,  Dean  of  Student  Life  and  Wm.  T.  Barry  Professor  of  Speech  and  Drama  at  Barry  College,  so  naturally  it  fell  to  me  to  direct  our  commemorative,  bare-  foot  production  of  Shakespeare's  great  festive  comedy.  While  I  was  at  it,  I  de-  cided  to  serve  up  some  ham  myself,  as  Lysander.  What  would  a  skinny,  bald-  ing,  unmarried,  and  childless  forty-six-     R  &lt;,P  R  EPAR  E  50  year-old  Lysander-a  Ph.D.  with  hair  on  his  back-mean  within  the  context  ofan  otherwise  college-age  show?  I'm  not  sure  I  can  answer  that  question.  Normally,  Lysander  would  be  essayed  by  some  good-looking  lacrosse  goalie  waiting  his  turn  to  date-rape  the  beauti-  %  ful,  waifish  Mary  Victoria  Frost,  our$  Hermla  only  a  sophomore  herself  and  5  2  already  the  finest  actress  we've  had  in  3  5  my  time  at  Barry,  a  sure  candidate  for  2  Yale  or  Juilliard  if  she  can  ease  off  the  2  drugs.  I  might  stand  in  as  Egeus  or  2  Theseus,  or  maybe  Oberon,  King  of  the  Faeries,  if  I  felt  up  to  it.  But  high-  g  concept  casting  is  a  director's  prerogative.  Two  seasons  ago,  we  mounted  an  all-  male,  all-nude  &quot;Taming  of  the  Shrew.&quot;  People  said  it  really  increased  their  ap-  preciation  for  the  radical  potentials  in  Elizabethan  drama.  And  so,  the  play.  Four  adolescents  turned  out  by  law  and  their  parents  into  a  green  world  governed  by  spooks,  all  playing-children  and  their  phantoms-  &amp;  at  love  and  nighttime  evil.  The  adolescents  were  me,  Mary  Vic-" b"toria  Frost,  Sheila  Tannenbaum,  as  He-  lena,  and  Billy  Valentine,  as  Demetrius.  Sheila,  a  junior,  plays  character  parts  when  she's  not  playing  basketball  for  the  Lady  Bears,  and  I  knew  she'd  make  an  acceptable  if  not  entirely  agreeable  He-  lena,  with  her  big  hands  and  lurching  walkand  brown  eyes  too  far  apart  on  an:  otherwise  bent-looking,  asymmetrical  face;  but  Valentine  represented  a  casting  risk.  Valentine  is  a  certain  kind  of  blond-  haired,  upper-middle-class  boy-the  type  is  familiar  at  any  private  school  in  the  land,  I1  would  imagine-a  sarcastic,  wiry  little  underachiever  who,  on  the  basis  of  no  evidence,  is  rumored  among  his  peers  to  be  a  genius.  &quot;Don't  come  to  rehearsals  stoned,  Billy,&quot;  I  warned  this  kid  before  first  read-  through.  &quot;Stoned,  Mr.  Barry?&quot;  He  laughed.  The  previous  Friday,  a  bunch  of  us  had  found  ourselves  lying  around  on  the  sofas  in  my  office  in  Lower  Hancock,  getting  wasted  on  some  of  Billy's  very  strong  homegrown.  &quot;We're  here  to  work,&quot;  I  told  him  now,  and  he  said,  &quot;Don't  you  think  I  should  be  playing  Puck?&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  direct  this  show,  Valen-  tine?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;No?  Then  let  me  worry  about  casting.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  Mr.  Barry.  Everything's  cool.  It's  just  that  Martin  can't  read  his  script.  I  mean,  he  can't  see.&quot;  Billy  Valentine  had  a  point.  Putting  Martin  Epps  in  as  Puck  was  like  put-  ting,  well,  I  don't  know  what  into  what.  How  can  you  defend  a  totally  blind  Robin  Goodfellow  tapping  his  way  around  the  stage  with  a  telescoping  cane,  except  in  theory?  Dramaturgically  speaking,  the  theory  was  sound  enough,  I  thought;  and  so  I  opened  up  rehearsals  by  reciting  it-in  somewhat  oblique  form-to  my  cast.  There  they  were,  the  &quot;drama  mafia,&quot;  down  in  the  windowless  Hancock  Hall  basement,  twenty-five  or  thirty  hungover  Lovers,  Royals,  Spirit  Wraiths,  Merry  Men,  stagehands,  set  techies,  and  walk-  ons,  all  dressed  in  late-spring  cut-offs  and  oxford-cloth  shirts  and  sheer  halter  tops,  almost  every  one  of  this  lot-ex-     cept  Martin  Epps,  the  blind  boy-inhal-  ing  drags  off  cigarettes;  it  was  a  bored,  blas\xc3\xa9-looking  crowd.  &quot;Genuine  vision,  expressed  artistically  by  Shakespeare  in  the  character  Puck,  is  more  than  the  ability  to  open  your  eyes,  take  a  look  around,  and  see  what's  wrong  with  your  life,&quot;  I  announced  to  these  oversexed  dope  addicts.  No  one  spoke  or  evenlooked  up,  and  I  had  that  terrible  feeling  I  get  at  the  kickoff  to  any  rehearsal  period,  when  I  realize  how  much  disappointment  lies  ahead.  I  said,  &quot;Well,  anyway,  Theseus,  it's  your  line  to  start  the  play.&quot;  Still  no  one  spoke.  &quot;[REDACTED],  do  you  have  the  cast  list?&quot;  I  asked  my  sopho-  more  stage  manager.  &quot;Hang  on,  Mr.  Barry,  it's  here  somewhere.&quot;  &quot;Call  me  Reg,&quot;  I  told  her.  &quot;During  the  play,  we're  all  equals.&quot;  She  stared  at  me  like  she  wasn't  quite  sure.  Unorthodox  etiquette  is  often  per-  plexing  for  the  young.  She  held  up  the  cast  list  and  waved  it-apparently  some  kind  of  &quot;theatrical&quot;  gesture-in  the  air  " b"164  over  her  head.  &quot;Greg  Lippincott,  you're  Theseus.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  is  that  how  'Theseus'  is  pro-  nounced?&quot;  Greg  asked.  It  was  hard  to  believe  he  was  one  of  the  [REDACTED]  Lippincotts.  He  took  a  puff  from  his  cig-  arette.  Snickering  could  be  heard.  It  took  four  hours  to  complete  the  read-through.  [REDACTED]  delivered  Martin  Epps's  lines  to  him,  and  Martin  repeated  each  back,  painstakingly,  one  word  then  the  next,  like  a  spy  being  briefed  on  a  plan.  &quot;I'll  put  a  girdle  round  about  the  earth  in  forty  minutes,&quot;  recited  [REDACTED].  &quot;Tl.  Put.  A  girdle.  Round  about  the  earth.  In  forty  minutes,&quot;  said  Martin.  I  made  a  note  to  ask  him  to  pick  up  the  pace  and  not  tap  cadences  on  the  floor  with  his  cane.  I  made  another  note,  to  Jim  Ferguson,  warning  him  to  avoid  inserting  &quot;like&quot;  into  Oberon's  speeches  to  Titania.  I  worried  about  telling  the  faeries  and  goblins  that  their  costumes  would  consist  of  G-strings  and  pasties.  I  can  always  give  thanks,  in  these  del-  icate  situations,  for  our  costumer,  my  girlfriend,  Carol.  Carol  came  in  later  in  the  week,  during  our  first  walk-through  rehearsal,  and  made  the  case  for  her  skimpy  outfits.  &quot;I  think  we  will  be  able  to  see  from  their  attire  that  these  faeries  are  playful  and  very  dangerous,  earthy  yet  devilish,  with  a  heightened  insistence  on  gender  that  not  only  subverts  our  own  male-  dominated  culture  but  underscores  the  young  lovers'  cruelty  toward  one  another     in  the  Athenian  grove,&quot;  she  announced  while  staring  straight  at  me.  Was  it  nec-  essary  for  Carol  to  see  everything  as  a  re-  flection  of  the  sexual  antagonisms  in  our  on-again,  off-again  relationship?  She  held  the  faerie  sketches-Cob-  web,  Peaseblossom,  Moth,  and  Mus-  tardseed-up  in  glaring  overhead  light.  A  girl  wearing  shorts  and  a  T-shirt  ob-  jected:  &quot;No  way.  I'm  not  going  out  there  naked.&quot;  ''This  is  the  theatre,  honey.  The  char-  acter  is  naked,  not  you.&quot;  &quot;Good  point,  Carol,&quot;  I  interjected,  unwisely.  Carol  gave  me  one  of  her  furi-  ous  looks,  reminding  me  that  she  was  approaching  a  breaking  point  in  our  love  affair.  What  can  be  said  about  this?  Af-  ter  five  years,  it's  a  regular  enough  occur-  rence.  The  truth  is  that  we've  never  been  very  happy  together.  We  pick  at  each  other  and  have  squalid  fights.  I'll  spare  the  details,  except  to  say  that  whenever  I  think  about  our  fighting,  or  about  Car-  ol's  drinking,  I  feel  sad  for  usboth;  and  this  makes  me  want  to  phone  her  up  and  find  out  if  she's  doing  all  right;  and  behavior,  as  will  easily  be  understood  by  anyone  who  has  lasted  even  a  short  while  in  a  hostile  erotic  relationship,  is  almost  invariably  a  prelude  to  knockout  sex.  &quot;What  will  I  be  wearing?&quot;  called  a  boy  from  the  back  of  the  basement.  The  boy  was  Sam  English,  a  theatre  regular,  bearded  and  deep-voiced;  he  was  my  Bottom.  Carol  said  to  him  and  to  the  entire  cast,  &quot;Costumes  are  designed  to 1999  suggest  historical  period  and  class,  while  also  referring  to  modern  dress.  Bottom  and  his  fellow-Mechanicals  will  wear  weight-lifting  belts  over  wool  tunics  with  the  characters'  names  ironed  on.&quot;  It  had  been  my  idea  to  depict  Shake-  speare's  vulgar  tradesmen  asa  team  of  &quot;Elizabethan&quot;  power  lifters.  I  imagined  them  carrying  six-packs  of  beer  hanging  from  those  clear  plastic  rings.  &quot;Let  me  see  Bottom  and  his  men  at  the  front  of  the  room,  pronto,&quot;  I  called  out,  to  begin  that  day's  walk-through  of  the  play  within  the  play,  Act  V's  irresistible  &quot;te-  dious  brief  scene  of  young  Pyramus  and  his  love  Thisbe.&quot;  Here  came  Quince,  the  carpenter;  Bottom,  the  weaver;  Flute,  the  bellows-  mender;  Snout,  the  tinker;  Snug,  the  joiner;  and  Starveling,  the  tailor-in  re-  ality  a  cluster  of  political-science  and  religious-studies  majors.  These  six  hud-  dled  around  me,  and  I  said,  &quot;You  guys  are  fuck-ups  and  you're  ugly.  You're  a  bunch  of  functionally  illiterate  dipsoma-  niacs,  and  I'd  be  amazed  if  any  of  you  has  ever  gotten  laid.  Your  own  mothers  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  you.&quot;  The  boys  looked  confused,  and  I  knew  I  had  them  where  I  wanted  them.  It  is  useful,  when  directing,  to  blur  the  boundaries  between  actor  and  role,  to  in-  augurate,  with  a  few  stringent  words,  if  necessary,  a  certain  emotional  instabil-  ity;  in  this  instance  I  was  exploiting  my  students'  routine  insecurities  in  order  to  lead  them  to  identify  with  Shakespeare's  motley  artisans.  I  then  gave  these  Merry  Men  my  cautionary  talk  about  the  hardships  of  a  life  in  the  theatre.  At  some  point,  I  be-  came  aware  of  [REDACTED]-I  could  see  her  over  Sam  English's  big  head;  she  was  waving  and  pointing  at  herwatch,  mak-  ing  those  gestures  and  absurd  faces  peo-  ple  make  when  they  need  your  attention,  yet  are  afraid  of  you-so  I  concluded,  &quot;Boys,  the  point  is  this.  People  think  the  theatre  is  romantic  and  magical.  And  sometimes  it  is.  But  most  of  the  time  it's  just  a  pile  of  crap  that  nobody  cares  about.&quot;  &quot;Time  for  animal  improvisations!&quot;  [REDACTED]  shouted.  &quot;A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,&quot;  historians  tell  us,  was  probably  first  pre-  sented  at  a  royal  wedding  held  in  sum-  mer  at  a  house  outside  [REDACTED].  Presum-  ably,  the  guests,  like  wedding  guests  throughout  history,  became  intoxicated  with  alcohol  and  the  aphrodisiacal  spirit  of  the  occasion.  Young  couples,  wander-  " b"DONALD  ANTRIM  ing  in  and  out  of  doors,  slipping  away  to  flirt  or  break  up  or  make  love,  had  dramatic  counterparts  in  the  unhappy  children  lost  in  love  in  Shakespeare's  imaginary  grove.  How  many  real  lovers  woke  after  the  ceremony,  hungover  and  sick,  to  discover  themselves  entwined  on  the  lawn  with  mates  met  only  during  the  festivities  the  night  before?  I  wanted  to  create  a  world  where  love  is  mercurial,  unbridled,  bestial.  In  our  production  of  &quot;A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,&quot;  the  un-  married  lovers  would  fall  asleep  after  chasing  one  another  through  the  forest;  then,  doused  with  nectar  from  Puck's  flower,  they  would  roll  over,  rub  their  eyes,  and  fuck  the  wrong  person.  &quot;Let's  all  get  down  on  our  hands  and  knees,&quot;  I  told  the  cast.  Down  we  went.  Right  away  I  noticed  that  Mary  Victoria  Frost  and  several  faeries  appeared  to  be  acting  like  house  cats;  these  girls  arched  their  backs,  pro-  jected  feline  buttsinto  the  air,  and  hissed.  Sheila  Tannenbaum-who,  in  Act  II,  Scene  1,  repeats  the  famous  line  &quot;Use  me  but  as  your  spaniel,  spurn  me,  strike  me&quot;-was  doing  a  nice  job  as  a  submis-  sive  pup,  rolling  over  and  sticking  out  her  tongue  to  lick  Billy  Valentine  slither-  ing  past  on  his  belly.  Lion  roared  and  Bottom  brayed  like  an  ass,  and  Sarah  Goldwasser,  our  Titania,  responded  by  rubbing  herself  against  Sam;  it  was  clear  that  these  twohad  a  flirtation  in  the  works.  That's  something  I  like  to  see.  Sex  makes  any  show  better.  &quot;Oink,  oink,&quot;  I  said  to  Mary  Victoria  Frost.  I  love  the  theatre.  I  really  do.  And  I  adored  my  cast.  They  adored  one  an-  other,  too;  these  boys  and  girls  were  becoming-as  thedays  became  weeks  and  the  play  took  its  shape-uninhibit-  edly  smitten  with  one  another.  It  was  mid-May,  and  summer's  first  warmth  was  in  the  air.  The  basement  felt  stuffy  and  hot,  thanks  to  the  overheating  fur-  nace  in  the  corner.  &quot;We're  not  out  of  the  woods  [REDACTED];  I  announced  at  the  beginning  of  our  third  week.  &quot;Those  of  you  who  haven't  gotten  off  book,  you're  holding  the  rest  of  us  up.  Demetrius,  time  your  entrances  so  you  don't  keep  Helena  waiting  down-  stage.  Titania,  less  kissing  and  more  teasing  when  you're  giving  it  up  to  Bot-  tom  in  Act  IV.  Make  him  work  for  it.&quot;  &quot;Reg?&quot;  peeped  a  voice  from  the  crowd.  It  was  Sarah  Goldwasser,  the  prima  donna.  \xc2\xabYes,  Sarah?&quot;  &quot;When  will  we  get  out  of  this  gross  basement  and  start  rehearsing  on  the  green?&quot;  &quot;Any  daynow.  Roger  and  Emil  are  building  the  platforms  in  the  trees,  and  they  have  to  dig  the  hole  for  Puck.  Once  Puck's  crater  is  finished,  we'll  move  the  show  outdoors.&quot;  &quot;Crater?&quot;  This  from  Martin  Epps.  &quot;That's  right.  In  our  Midsummer  Night's  Dream,&quot;  the  demons  won't  merely  buzz  around  like  woodland  pixies;they'll  come  right  up  from  the  earth  to  grab  us  and  pull  us  down  to  Hell.  At  any  rate,  Martin,  I  don't  think  your  hole  will  be  much  of  a  problem  after  one  or  two  on-site  rehearsals.  You'll  see,&quot;I  assured  the  blind  boy.  It  was  one  of  those  moments  when  a  person  (myself,  in  this  instance)  says  something  wholly  untoward,  and  then,  becoming  aware  of  the  faux  pas  and  its  implications,  rushes  blindly  forward-  there  is  no  other  way  to  describe  this  adequately,  except  as  a  kind  of  verbal  blindness-exclaiming  additional  hor-  rors.  &quot;What  I  mean  is  ...  the  rest  of  us  will  .  ..  watch  you  crawling  .  ..  covered  with  dirt  and  sticks  ...  You  can  picture  it  ...I  don't  mean  literally.  ...&quot;  &quot;That's  O.K.,  Mr.  Barry,&quot;  said  Martin  Epps.  &quot;Call  me  Reg,&quot;  I  reminded  him,  by  way  of  apology.  Then,  addressing  the  room  at  large,  attempting  to  regain  au-  thority:  &quot;All  right.  Let  me  have  all  the  young  lovers  over  in  the  corner.  Lovers,  don't  touch  the  boiler.&quot;  Possibly-I  should  say  probably-it  was  risky  of  me  to  attempt  simulated  sex  with  undergraduates.  &quot;What  doyou  think,  gang?  Is  this  something  you  feel  you  can  comfortably  do  in  front  ofan  audience?&quot;  Together  we  sat-Mary  Victoria  Frost,  Sheila  Tannenbaum,  Billy  Valentine,  and  I-in  a  cozy  circle  on  the  floor.  Billy,  I  noticed,  had  his  eye  on  Mary;  he  leaned  back  beside  her,  and  you  could  tell  he  was  angling  to  spy  an  opening  in  her  blouse  and  glimpse  a  breast.  Mary  spoke.  &quot;How  dark  will  it  be?&quot;  &quot;Fairly.  By  Act  III,  the  sun  will  be  setting.  With  any  luck,  it'll  be  a  humid  night  and  the  fireflies  will  be  out.&quot;  &quot;It's  going  to  be  beautiful!&quot;  exclaimed  Sheila.  I  concurred,  &quot;That's  right,  Sheila.  When  you  make  love,  you're  doing  God's  work  on  Earth.&quot;     165  After  that,  we  sat  for  a  time.  The  atmo-  sphere  became  pleasantly  uncomfortable.  This  sensation  of  a  pervasive,  shared  emotional  discomfort  may  have  been  helped  along  by  the  presence  nearby  of  the  foul-smelling  oil  furnace,  hissing  and  burning,  making  the  air  in  our  little  corner  feel  sickeningly,  suffocatingly  warm.  Finally  Billy  broke  the  tension  with  a  homophobic  joke.  &quot;Reg,  will  I  have  to  make  out  with  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;In  a  manner  of  speak-  ing,  Billy.  Lysander,  Hermia,  Demetrius,  and  Helena  will  trade  back  and  forth  in  a  kind  of  blind,  revolving  em-  brace.  Erotic  possibility,  sig-  nifying  not  immoralitybut  immortality,  is  the  real  plea-  sure  for  unmarried  lovers.  So  we're  going  to  get  it  on.&quot;  &quot;Like  in  my  dormitory,&quot;  laughed  Valentine.  Later,  we  all  stretched  out  on  the  floor  and  began  mapping  positions.  It  was  clear  that  the  kids  were-how  shall  I  put  this'-experienced  in  some  ways  and  inexperienced  in  others.  Sheila  Tannenbaum  chuckled  when  touched;  there  was  little  that  was  pretty  about  this  rangy  girl,  yet  she  was  coy  and  therefore  sexy.  Billy  Valentine  was  not  sexy.  It  annoyed  me  to  watch  him  grope  Mary  Victoria  Frost.  He  had  no  moves,  and  she,  as  far  as  I  could  tell,  didn't  care.  I  signalled  everyone  to  switch  partners,  and  Mary  wrapped  her  legs  around  me.  I  read  thisas  permission  to  cradle  her  in  my  lap.  She  weighed  practically  nothing.  Was  she  one  of  those  girls  who  exist  on  breakfast  cereal  and  am-  phetamines?  I  stuck  my  face  in  her  hair  and  breathed  her  smells  of  bath  oil  and  nicotine.  Oh,  my  heart.  I  laid  my  head  on  Mary's  shoulder  and  watched  young  Billy  Valentine  straddle  Sheila.  He  appeared  to  be  mauling  the  girl's  throat-what  was  he  doing,  adminis-  teringa  &quot;sleeper&quot;  hold?-until  Sheila  made  an  athletic  move  with  her  legs,  scissoring  Billy  and  bringing  him  hard  to  the  floor.  Thump.  Quickly,  I  leaned  over  and  tugged  Sheila  toward  me,  in  this  way  getting  two  girls  and  scoring  a  sexual  victory  over  a  boy  young  enough  to  be  my  son.  Billy  Valentine  sat  to  the  side  with  his  legs  crossed  and  his  head  down.  I  had  the  feeling,  watching  him,  that  I  was  seeing  him  in  an  unguarded  moment,  and  in  a  posture  and  attitude  that  ex-  " b" pressed  an  essential  state  of  his  being.  I  was  witnessing,  it  occurred  to  me,  some-  thing  like  pure  sadness;  and  I  would've  bet  money  that  Billy  was  the  child  of  divorced,  probably  alcoholic  parents.  I  cuddled  the  girls  and,  in  a  moment  of,  I  suppose,  empathy,  told  him,  &quot;You  know,  Billy,  my  mother  and  father  got  drunkand  argued  all  the  time.  The  truth  is,  they  were  terrible  to  each  other.  I  thought  I'd  never  get  over  all  that,  and  I  guess  maybe  I  never  have.&quot;  For  an  instant,  Billy  looked  as  if  he  might  laugh.  But  he  didn't  laugh.  He  gazed  at  me  with  these  big,  round  eyes  that  seemed  to  grow  larger  and  more  rounded;  and  his  whole  countenance  changed,  which  is  to  say  that,  in  some  way  that  had  more  to  do  with  a  feeling  than  an  actual  look,  his  expression  soft-  ened,  and  he  lowered  his  head.  &quot;Places  for  Act  II,  Scene  1!&quot;  I  called  out  to  [REDACTED]  and  the  cast.  &quot;We're  going  to  run  the  play  from  Puck's  lineto  the  faerie,  Thou  speak'st  aright;  I  am  that  merry  wanderer  of  the  night.'  Puck,  you're  downstage  left,  crawling  out  of  your  hole.&quot;  &quot;Thou  speak'st  aright.  I  am  that  merry.  Wanderer  of  the  night,&quot;  intoned  my  sightless  Puck.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,  Martin.  Do  the  line  again,  this  time  as  if  you  hate  life.  Say  this  line  as  if  you're  alone  in  the  world  and  you  despise  yourself.&quot;  &quot;Thou  speak'st  aright;  I  am  that&quot;-  here  he  paused  for  an  especially  long  time,  as  if  thinking  about  a  hard  prob-  lem-&quot;merry  wanderer  of  the  night.&quot;  &quot;Listen  to  me.  Puck  is  not  some  frol-  icking  clown.  He's  Hobgoblin!  Beelze-  bub!  Lucifer!  Satan,  the  enemy  of  love!  Puck  is  a  wretched,  willfully  destructive  creature.  Let's  do  a  quick  exercise.  Re-  peat  after  me:  I  am  a  wretched,  willfully  destructive  creature.&quot;  &quot;I  am  a  wretched,  willfully  destruc-  tive.  Creature.&quot;  &quot;Everything  I  do  creates  pain.&quot;  &quot;Everything  I.  Do  creates  pain.&quot;  &quot;No  one  loves  me.&quot;  &quot;No.  One  loves  me.&quot;  &quot;I'm  fucked  up.&quot;  &quot;I'm  fucked  ...&quot;  He  was  sniffling.  His  voice  cracked.  Were  there  tears?  I  could  not  see  the  young  actor's  eyes  because  they  were  hidden  behind  dark  lenses.  I  leaned  close  to  my  Puck,  in  order  to  grow!  in  his  ear,  &quot;I  wear  the  number  of  the  beast.&quot;  &quot;Huh?&quot;  he  whimpered.  I  smacked  theblind  kid  on  the  shoul-     " b"168  der.  &quot;Let's  run  this  play,  Martin,  I  mean  Puck.  When  we  get  to  the  section  where  you  chase  the  young  lovers  through  the  forest,  go  ahead  and  swat  our  legs  with  your  cane.&quot;  And  to  the  cast,  the  Royals  and  rude  Mechanicals,  the  devils  and  imps  and  lost  children,  I  proclaimed,  &quot;This  show  needs  to  move,  people.  It's  a  comedy!&quot;  Or  is  it?  Students  of  &quot;A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream&quot;  will  undoubtedly  be  fa-  miliar  with  the  trend,  in  recent  years,  to  emphasize  horror  in  the  drama:  faeries  played  as  ghouls,  Oberon  as  a  molester;  Bottom's  transformation  depicted  as  a  grotesque,  literally  asinine  mutilation.  There  is  a  reactionary  aspect  to  this  movement  away  from  traditional  fun  and  games;  construing  the  &quot;Dream&quot;  as  a  hellish  sexual  nightmare  rather  than  as  an  innocuous  garden  party  is  a  way  of  making  the  play  interestingly  &quot;modern&quot;  in  the  post-World  War,  post-Holocaust,  thermonuclear,  and  psychoanalytic  era.  &quot;Make  it  ugly,&quot;  I  instructed  my  cast  in  the  final  week  before  the  show.  It  was  a  Sunday  afternoon,  our  first-and  only,  thanks  to  storms  blowing  in-outdoor  run-through.  The  day  was  overcast  and  unseasonably  chilly,  with  winds  from  the  north  smelling  like  rain.  Crows  perched  on  tree  branches  and  the  faeries  wooden  platforms-three  plywood  decks  con-  nected  by  swaying  footbridges,  every-  thing  balanced  precariously  in  the  high,  heavy  oak  limbs  that  reached  out  to  shade  Puck's  deep  hole,  dug  &quot;center  stage&quot;  at  the  southernmost  edge  of  the  Barry  College  green,  our  theatre.  &quot;Up  in  the  trees,  faeries,  let's  go,&quot;  I  called.  Girls  took  turns  climbing.  A  few  had  trouble  getting  up.  Sarah  Goldwas-  ser,  the  regal  Titania,  marched  over  and  said,  &quot;Reg,  will  you  tell  Oberon  to  stop  grabbing  my  nipples  in  our  fight  scene?&quot;  &quot;Hmm.  I  think  it's  kind  of  good  for  the  scene,  Sarah.&quot;  &quot;He  does  it  too  hard.  My  nipples  don't  like  it  that  hard,&quot;  she  said,  and  huffed  off  toward  her  bower.  &quot;Here  comes  the  rain,&quot;  a  boy's  voice  beside  me  exclaimed.  &quot;I'd  appreciate  it  if  you  would  con-  centrate  on  your  acting  and  not  worry  about  the  weather,  Billy.&quot;  &quot;How  are  we  supposed  to  do  any  act  ing  when  the  entire  stage  is  nothing  but  a  hole  in  the  ground?&quot;  The  boy  had  a  point.  And  I  had  an  answer.  &quot;The  circular  patterns  sketched  by  our  movements  around  the  pit  will  illustrate  mankind's  proximity  to  the  abyss,  and  this  in  turn  will  be  a  dra-  maturgical  reminder  of  the  themes  of  revolution  and  renewal  in  English  morris  dancing,  which,  you'll  recall  from  the  first  week  of  rehearsal,  Billy,  is  an  ac-  knowledged  folk  source  for  Shake-  speare's  May  Day  comedies.&quot;  I  wish  I  could  say  I  was  pleased  with  this  impromptu  oration.  Purely  technical  observations  concerning  the  larger  im-  plications  of  stagecraft  are  best  left  in  the  classroom,  having,  out  here  in  the  field,  as  it  were,  more  of  a  confusing  than  a  clarifying  effect.  Billy  looked  de-  spairing.  Clearly  I  had  been  right,  during  that  sex-scene  rehearsal  the  week  before,  in  supposing  him  to  be  the  child  of  an  unhappy  home.  I  put  my  hand  on  his  shoulder,  and  said,  in  as  fatherly  a  voice  as  I  could  concoct  on  short  notice,  &quot;I  know  it's  a  mighty  big  hole,  Billy.  We'll  all  have  to  be  careful  not  to  fall  in  and  break  our  legs.  Sometimes  in  the  theatre,  as  in  life,  we  do  our  best  work  when  mainly  concerned  with  not  making  fools  of  ourselves.&quot;  &quot;That's  typical  for  a  man  to  say,  isn't  it?&quot;  declared  a  woman's  voice.  I  became  immediately  tense.  The  speaker  was  Carol,  who  had  sneaked  up  from  behind  andwas  standing  with  her  arms  crossed  before  her  chest,  the  posture  expressing  her  confrontational  mode,  surely  an  indi-  cation  that  she  had  been  drinking.  &quot;Hello,Carol.&quot;  &quot;Don't  bother  being  polite,  Reg,&quot;  Carol  said.  &quot;It  doesn't  look  good  on  you.&quot;  She  was  weaving  slightly,  actually  sway  ing  in  place,  much  in  the  manner  ofan  actor  impersonating  a  drunk,  I  thought.  Here  was  an  example  of  a  dramatic  clich\xc3\xa9s  analogue  in  reality.  &quot;We're  about  to  begin  rehearsal,  Carol.  I  suppose  you've  come  to  take  a  few  last-  minute  costume  measurements?&quot;  &quot;Fuck  you.&quot;  &quot;Let's  not  have  one  of  our  scenes,     THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  21  \xc2\xa3  28,  1999  Carol,  not  out  here  in  front  of  the  boy,  please?&quot;  &quot;Look  who's  talking.  If  it  isn't  the  protector  of  youth  himself.&quot;  She  ad-  dressed  Billy,  &quot;I'll  bet  you're  fond  of  your  teacher,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;I  guess.&quot;  &quot;You  guess?&quot;  She  seemed  very  un-  steady  on  her  feet.  Her  voice  sounded  hysterical  and  mean.  &quot;It's  going  to  rain!  Have  you  ever  fucked  in  the  rain?  Your  teacher  likes  to  fuck  in  the  rain!&quot;  &quot;Jesus,  Carol.&quot;  &quot;He  likes  to  fuck  in  the  rain  and  he  likes  it  on  top  of  his  desk  and  in  cars  and  on  buses!&quot;  By  now  people  had  accumulated,  a  circle  of  actors  and  actresses,  a  few  passersby,  no  faculty  or  fellow  academic  deans,  I  hoped,  everyone  gathered  to  rel-  ish  the  spectacle  of  Carol  crying,  &quot;I  was  going  to  have  ababy!  This  man  wouldn't  let  me  have  our  baby!&quot;  Billy,  I  noticed,  wore  a  surprisingly  composed  (though  somewhat  glassed-  over)  expression,  as  if  he  were  accus-  tomed  to  violent  exhibitionism  in  adults.  He  looked  as  though  nothing  could  be  more  natural  to  him  than  a  drunken  woman's  fury.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  son,&quot;  I  said  to  the  boy  when  Carol  eventually  ceased  yelling.  I  had  the  uneasy  feeling  that  I  was  in  some  way  giving  an  expert  rendering  of  Billy's  real  father,  a  man  who  must've  been  lacking-if  our  episode  on  the  col-  lege  lawn  could  be  used  as  an  indica-  tor-backbone.  &quot;It's  cool,&quot;  sighed  Billy.  Then  the  rain  came.  The  first  drops  were  followed  by  wind  and  a  great,  rolling  thunderclap.  Tree  branches  swayed,  and  faeries  scampered  down  from  their  platforms;  then  forked  light-  ning  struck  nearby  and  the  sky  was  in-  stantly,  ghostly  white.  Cast  and  crew  began  racing  off  in  different  directions.  It  was  one  of  those  thoroughly  drench-  ing  gales  that  mark  the  beginning  of  summer-there  was  no  point  trying  to  stay  dry.  I  reached  out  and  took  Carol  by  the  arm,  to  comfort  her  and  steady  her.  Rainwater  soaked  her  hair  and  mat-  ted  it  in  clumps.  &quot;Let's  go  indoors  and  get  you  wrapped  in  a  warm  towel,&quot;  I  shouted  over  the  thunder;  and  she  tugged  her  arm  away  and  staggered  to  the  edge  of  Puck's  hole.  She  gave  me  one  of  her  powerful,  inimitable,  dis-  gusted  looks,  then  leaned  over,  braced  herself  with  her  hands  on  her  knees,  " b" and  vomited  into  the  pit.  It  happened  quickly  and  was  over  before  Billy  or  I  could  respond  in  a  helpful  way.  A  cou-  ple  of  heaves  and  Carol  spat  out  the  last.  She  looked  terrible,  like  a  witch  in  the  Scottish  play,  I  thought,  or  one  of  those  modern  descendants  of  crones  on  heaths,  the  living  dead  who  climb  from  graves  in  horror  movies.  She  was  in-  tensely  drunk,  of  course.  To  Billy-she  was  looking  mostly  at  the  boy,  though  presumably  Carol  was  thinking  of  me,  or  maybe  neither  Billy  nor  me-she  said,  &quot;Look  at  you.  You  make  me  sick.  You're  like  your  father.  He  does  what-  ever  he  wants  with  people.  He's  a  shit.  There's  no  love  in  this  family.&quot;  Then  she  reeled  away  across  the  green.  Billy  and  I  watched  Carol  lurch  around  a  corner  and  disappear  behind  Lunbeck  Hall;  then  we  turned,  flustered  and  embarrassed,  two  men  sharing  a  burden  of  humiliation,  and  walked  to-  gether  in  the  opposite  direction.  Rain  was  in  our  faces  and  our  hands  were  buried  in  our  pockets.  Wind  and  water  forced  our  eyes  downward.  Our  shoes  squished.  Puddles  were  everywhere.  It  was  Billy  who  spoke  first.  &quot;I  doubt  if  I  could  run  like  that  if  I'd  just  barfed.&quot;  This  comment  made  me  like  young  Valentine  immensely.  I  told  him,  &quot;You  should  have  played  Puck.&quot;  This  was  said  not  so  much  to  avoid  the  subject  of  Carol,  her  outburst  and  her  vomiting,  as  to  assuage  feelings  of  guilt  and  shame  by  making  an  offering  of  some  kind,  however  small  and  mean-  ingless.  Billy  replied,  in  the  right  spirit,  &quot;Demetrius  rocks.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad  you  feel  that  way,  Billy.  Do  you  have  any  more  of  that  good,  strong  dope?&quot;  I  asked,  dripping.  &quot;No,  sir.  Not  on  me.&quot;  &quot;That's  too  bad.&quot;  For  reasons  I  could  not  name,  I  went  on,  &quot;When  I  was  younger,  I  figured  I'd  grow  up  and  get  married  and  have  children.  But  now  years  have  gone  by,  and  I'm  not  young.&quot;  &quot;That's  cool,&quot;  said  Billy.  And  he  said,  &quot;Anyway,  you  shouldn't  marry  someone  with  a  drinking  problem.&quot;  &quot;You're  right  about  that.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Barry?&quot;  &quot;Reg.&quot;  &quot;Reg,  doyou  think  she  knows  about  my  father?&quot;  Knows  what?  &quot;She  wasn't  talking  about  your  father.  She  thought  I  was  your  father,  and  you  were  our  son  that    we  never  had,  and  you  were  growing  up  to  be  like  me.&quot;  &quot;That's  crazy.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  agreed.  But  it  was  truethat  I'd  had  the  same  notion  as  Carol.  &quot;See  you  tomorrow,  Billy.&quot;  &quot;Later,  Reg.&quot;  Rehearsal,  however,  was  not  to  be.  Not  the  next  day,  or  the  day  after  that,  or  the  afternoon  following.  The  storm  wors-  ened  over  the  course  of  the  first  night,  causing  trees  to  fall  on  power  lines,  dis-  abling  phones  and  cutting  off  electricity  to  homes  and  college  buildings.  Classes  were  cancelled.  By  morning  of  the  sec-  ond  day,  Tuesday,  the  thunder  and  light-  ning  had  stopped,  though  the  sky  re-  mained  gray,  pouring  heavy  rain.  The  country  around  here  is  veined  with  creeks;  these  grew  into  deep,  fast-moving  rivers.  The  college,safe  on  high  ground,  operated  minimally  on  generators.  A  party  spirit  prevailed.  New  couples  would  subse-  quently  date  their  union  to  the  week  of  the  flash  flood.  The  disaster  occurred  on  Thursday,  when  natural  dams  in  the  nearby  hills  gave  way,  releasing  torrents  of  water  derived  primarily  from  melted  winter  snow.  The  water  crashed  down  into  the  val-  leys,  washing  away  roads,  trees,  cars,  and  about  twenty  people.  The  National  Guard  and  the  International  Red  Cross  landed  helicopters  on  the  Wm.  T.  Barry  Gym-  nasium  parking  lot.  Student  volunteers  collected  cast-off  clothing,  canned  food,  blankets,  etc.  A  short  time  later,  it  was  learned  that  Harrison  P.  Mackay,  a  chem-  istry  professor  with  forty  years  at  the  col-  lege,  had  been  a  flood  casualty.  The  pro-  fessor,  not  well  known  to  me  except  as  a  red-faced  personage  wearing  a  bow  tie,  was  found  lodged  in  an  embankment  near  the  town  of  Chesterford.  An  emergency  meeting  of  deans  and  the  president  con-  vened;  sadness  was  expressed  and  a  few  important  memories  were  recalled.  After  the  meeting,  President  Farnham  took  me  aside  and  said,  &quot;Reginald,  I  want  you  to  do  that  play  if  the  weather  clears.  Right  after  our  service  for  Harrison.  We're  all  going  to  need  cheering  up.&quot;  It  was  in  this  way  that  we  came  to  perform  &quot;A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream&quot;  on  a  wet  field  before  an  audience  of  mourners  wearing  black.  &quot;We're  going  to  have  a  tough  house,&quot;  I  saidto  my  young  company  on  the  evening  of  the  show.  Folding  chairs  were  set  upon  the  mushy  ground.  Organ  music,  a  gloomy  Episcopalian  dirge,  drifted  in  from  the  church  at  the  college  green's  distant  end.  Harrison's  memorial,  under  way.  Skies  remained  partly  cloudy,  and  a  light  breeze  blewfrom  the  south.  Together  we  stood,  cast  and  crew,  in  a  circle  around  Puck's  hole.  We  weren't  holding  hands,  though  we  should  have  been-there  was  a  noticeable  feeling,  in  the  group,  of  ap-  prehension,  a  communal  dread  and  exci-  tation  only  partly  attributable  to  normal  stagefright.  The  hole,  in  the  wake  of  the  " b"  week's  rains,  was  a  muddy  pond.  A  duck,  possibly  blown  far  from  home  in  the  high  winds  a  few  days  earlier,  paddled  on  the  surface.  Fallen  leaves  looked  like  twisted  miniature  lily  pads.  These  ele-  ments-water,  duck,  vegetation-com-  bined  to  create  a  disturbingly  powerful  scene,  a  vastly  reduced  water  vista  that  stood  in  relation  to  actual  lakes  as  an  artist's  easel  studies  do  to  fully  realized,  complex  paintings.  It  was,  in  other  words,  an  excellent  stage-set  pond,  not  at  all  unlike  a  classical  folly  from  an  Eng-  lish  garden-scaled  down,  deceptively  simple,  unreal  enough  to  seem  mysteri-  ous,  primordial,  sad.  The  funeral  music  was  not  helping  my  mood.  Jim  Ferguson,  our  sexually  aggressive  Oberon  and  a  zoology  major,  pointed  out,  &quot;That's  a  female  mallard.  She's  injured.  Look  at  her-she's  all  crooked.&quot;  It  was  true.  The  duck  listed  in  the  water.  Jim  explained,  &quot;Ducks  are  vicious     when  they're  hurt.  They  host  human  in-  fluenza  and  other  dangerous  viruses.&quot;  &quot;Duck?&quot;  asked  Martin  Epps,  waving  his  cane,  straying  precariously  near  the  water's  edge.  I  told  him,  &quot;Don't  worry  about  the  duck,  O.K.?&quot;  To  the  cast  in  general,  I  said,  &quot;I'll  need  a  couple  of  volunteers  to  lower  Martin  into  the  water  when  the  time  comes.&quot;  &quot;Water?&quot;  said  Martin,  splashing  with  his  cane,  poking  to  find  the  hole's  bot-  tom.  The  duck  paddled  weakly.  All  around  me,  kids  in  little  groups  stared  down  at  it  and  smoked  in  that  self-consciously  erotic  way-the  dramatic  puffs  and  the  stagy,  side-of-the-mouth  exhalations  blown  upward  into  the  air  like  steam  es-  caping  so  many  hot  engines-that  seems  to  bean  advertisement  for  the  carefree  life.  I  couldn't  take  it.  &quot;Do  you  kids  think  you're  going  to  live  forever?&quot;  I  shouted  at  these  innocents.  &quot;Do  you  think  life  is  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  21  &amp;  28,  1999  some  kind  of  You  think  that  one  day  you'll  stop  being  depressed!  You  won't  ever  stop  being  depressed!  No  matter  how  much  sex  you  have!&quot;  As  if  on  cue,  bells  rang  out  from  the  chapel  spire.  Big  wooden  doors  were  flung  open,  and  the  first  few  mourners  emerged  from  the  church.  &quot;Places!&quot;  cried  [REDACTED].  Faeries  tossed  away  cigarette  butts  and  Royals  crouched  behind  bushes  while  Mechanicals  popped  open  their  first-act  beers.  Billy  Valentine  passed  Mary  Victoria  Frost  an  enormous  joint.  Martin  Epps  alone  remained  before  his  watery  lair.  &quot;Billy,  Mary,  give  me  a  hand  with  Martin,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;One,  two,  three.&quot;  Up  went  the  blind  boy.  He  was  light  for  a  fat  kid.  He  entered  the  water  and  said,  &quot;Ahhh.&quot;  &quot;Stay  put  and  don't  piss  off  the  duck,&quot;  I  directed  him.  Billy  and  Mary  and  I  crawled  be-  neath  the  stage-left  shrubs.  Billy  was  about  to  stash  the  joint  when  I  stopped  him.  &quot;Hey,  don't  put  that  away.  I  need  a  hit.&quot;  Fireflies  blinked  on,  off,  on.  The  audience  settled  into  seats.  Sounds  of  weeping  rose  from  thehouse.  I  peeked  up  and  could  see,  above  me,  faeries'  legs  dangling  from  platforms  in  trees,  pair  after  pair  of  young  legs.  &quot;Good  dope,&quot;  I  whispered  to  Billy.  Then  [REDACTED]  gave  the  signal,  and  Greg  Lippincott  walked  onstage  and  ex-  claimed,  &quot;Now,  fair  Hippolyta,  our  nup-  tial  hour  draws  on  apace;  four  happy  days  bring  in  another  moon.&quot;  Who  can  listen  to  that  kind  of  stuff?  A  moment  later  came  the  cue  for  the  young  lovers  to  stumble  out  and  stand  before  their  el-  ders.  There  was  not  much  ground  to  stand  on,  only  slippery  grass  beside  the  hole,  where  Martin  was  sunk  in  black  water  to  his  chin.  The  crooked  duck  regarded  Martin  with  crazed  eyes.  &quot;Full  of  vexation  come  I,  with  complaint  against  my  child,  my  daughter  Hermia,&quot;  growled  Egeus  as  faculty,  alumni,  and  a  few  undergraduates  and  parents  wept  tears  for  Harrison  Mackay.  Under-  standably,  I  felt  the  need  to  get  a  laugh.  &quot;The  course  of  true  love  never  did  run  smooth,&quot;  I  proclaimed  morosely,  and  at  that  instant  the  duck  began  flapping  its  maimed  wings,  and  Martin  waved  his  cane  wildly,  and  a  gust  of  wind  blew  in  like  a  sneeze  from  God,  shaking  the  trees  and  blowing  hats  off  heads  in  the  audience.  I  looked  for  Carol  among  the  mourners.  Where  was  she?  Did  she  truly  " b"love  me  enough  to  have  a  child  with  me?  &quot;It's  going  pretty  well,  don't  you  think?&quot;  I  asked  Billy  when  we  came  off-  stage  at  the  middle  of  Act  I.  We  listened  respectfully  as  Helena  rattled  off  her  fa-  mous  speech  about  being  sexually  unat-  tractive;  and  then  Bottom  and  his  men  took  over,  rushing  out  and  tackling  one  another  and  flubbing  their  lines-but  it  didn't  matter  what  they  did,  because  these  characters  are  probably  the  most  indestructible  comic  team  in  all  of  Eng-  lish  literature,  and,  sure  enough,  when  Bottom  crunched  Lion  in  the  windpipe  with  his  weight  belt  the  audience  let  out  its  first  decent  belly  laugh  of  the  night.  Billy  and  I  hid  behind  the  backstage  trees  and  waited  to  run  out,  lie  down  to  sleep  on  the  cold  ground,  get  drugged  by  Puck,  wake  up  with  our  hard-ons,  and  begin  chasing  each  other  and/or  Mary  Victoria  Frost  and/or  Sheila  Tan-  nenbaum  through  the  haunted  woods.  Billy  whispered,  &quot;Can  I  talk  to  you,  Reg?&quot;  &quot;Call  me  Lysander  during  theshow.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  want  you  to  think,  after  the  other  day,  you  know,  that  I  don't  love  my  father.&quot;  He  seemed  maudlin,  not  at  all  like  a  happy  comedian  eager  to  chew  the  scen-  ery.  &quot;I  didn't  think  that.  I'm  sure  you  love  your  father  very  much,&quot;  I  assured  him.  Saying  this  made  me  sad.  Billy  told  me,  &quot;My  father  is  not  a  bad  man,  no  matter  what  people  say.&quot;  Night  was  falling;  the  air  had  grown  cold.  Puck  on  his  stomach  crawled  up  the  bank  of  his  pond,  then  splashed  back  down  into  the  water.  Faeries  on  plat-  forms  jumped  up  and  down  noisily.  Mary  and  Sheila,  one  tree  over  from  me  and  Billy,  adjusted  costumes  and  one  an-  other's  hair.  Up  Puck  came  again,  cov-  ered  in  mud.  His  glasses  had  slipped  from  his  head,  and  now  his  sightless  eyes  stared  wildly;  he  could  not  have  realized  how  afraid  he  looked.  &quot;I'll  put  a  girdle.  Round  about.  he  sputtered  as,  suddenly,  the  duck  attacked.  Martin  howled  and  grasped  at  the  mud  and  the  grass,  reaching  for  a  handhold  on  dry  land.  It  was  too  late.  The  duck  blasted  offthe  pond  and  came  down  hard  in  a  spray  of  foam  on  Martin's  pudgy,  naked  back.  Webbed  feet  slapped  the  boy's  white  skin  as  the  duck  gave  the  coup  de  grace  with  a  thrust  of  her  bill  into  Mar-  tin's  neck.  &quot;Thanks  for  talking,  Lysander,&quot;  Billy  exclaimed.  He  bolted  from  behind  our  oak  tree.  Sheila  Tannenbaum  leaped  out  of  hiding  and  ran  after  him.  &quot;I  love  thee  not,  therefore  pursue  me  not,&quot;  the  boy  yelled  at  the  girl.  What  is  more  exciting  than  kinetic,  technical  theatre,  the  impeccable  orches-  trations  of  pratfall  farce?  I  say  this  in  consideration  of  the  fact  that  audience  members  were  leaving  their  seats  and  sneaking  close,  the  betterto  gawk  at  Puck  in  his  hole.  As  is  always  the  case  during  productions  of  the  Bard,  a  few  carried  paperback  copies  of  the  script.  Sticklers.  I  watched  them  thumb  pages  back  and  forth,  no  doubt  searching  for  references  to  a  vengeful  mallard.  I  have  no  objection  to  the  public  encroaching  on  the  players-during  Shakespeare's  time,  spectators  sat  on  the  stage  and  be-  came,  to  a  limited  degree,  implicated  in  the  theatre  experience-but  in  this  in-  stance  a  participatory  audience  was  a  safety  hazard.  Billy,  Mary,  Sheila,  and  I  had  to  dodge  and  weave  throughout  the  better  part  of  Acts  II  and  III.  Darting  barefoot  and  more  or  less  naked  around  people  wearing  formal  clothes  had,  as  an  activity,  a  distinctly  anarchic,  rebellious  aspect-rebellious  in  the  sense  that  it  created,  for  me  at  least,  the  kind  of  sweaty  excitement  that  comes  withdan-  gerous  play.  I  felt  free  and  young.  I  should  say  that  I  felt  myself  backsliding  to  a  younger  state  of  mind.  It's  hard  to  say  what  this  feeling  consisted  in-panic  and  hope,  disappointment,  shame.  I  was  wearing  torn  Barry  Bears  gym  shorts  and  feeling  like  a  teen-ager  and  running  fast,  and  my  feet  sank  into  the  earth,  and  mud  splashed  my  legs.  What  is  more  aw-  ful  and  disorienting  than  adolescence?  How  had  I  become  so  lost  and  alone?  What  had  persuaded  me  that  I  could  play  a  young  man's  part?  Was  Billy  pursuing  me?  Was  I  pursuing  Billy?  The  bereaved  came  forward  into  the  fray  with  heads  bowed,  and  I  stumbled  through  a  pud-  dle  and  narrowly  missed  crashing  into  President  Farnham.  &quot;Reginald!  This  is  criminal!  Criminal!&quot;  the  man  shouted  after  me.  Then:  &quot;Up  anddown,  up  and  down,  I  will  lead  them  up  and  down;  I  am  fear'd  in  field  and  town:  Goblin,  lead  them  up  and  down,&quot;  Martin  Epps  sang  out  magnificently,  beautifully,  be-  fore,  at  long  last,  he  slid  through  ooze  and  disappeared,  cane  and  all,  beneath  the  water.  Bubbles,  then  silence.  171  Women  and  men  wearing  black  lined  the  banks  of  the  wine-black  lake.  They  appeared,  I  thought,  to  be  enjoying  the  show.  It  must  be  said  that  Shakespeare's  genius  lies  partly  in  his  plays'  ready  adapt-  ability  to  the  kinds  of  high-handed,  dec-  adent  concepts  guaranteed  to  astonish  playgoers  and  offend  the  critics.  Theatre  artistes  often  speak  of  their  disregard  for  the  audience;  and  it's  a  badge  of  integ-  rity  among  some  in  this  business  to  ig-  nore  the  ostensible  needs  and  desires  of  that  inexpert  class  the  ticket  holders.  But  I  think  this  is  a  rotten  attitude.  I'm  in  favor  of  putting  on  a  show  people  will  remember  and  talk  about.  Who  cared  if  it  was  too  dark  out  to  really  see  anything?  Who  noticed  that  Mary  Victoria  Frost  was  whacked  on  pot  and  dropping  her  best  lines?  What  did  it  matter  if  Mustardseed  and  Moth  had  stripped  off  their  G-strings  in  order  to  sixty-nine  atop  the  tree-house  stage  set?  Puck  had  sunk,  and  the  important  mid-  dle  acts  were  nearing  conclusion,  and  this  meant  it  was  time  for  me  to  cuddle  on  the  grass  with  Sheila  Tannenbaum.  There  she  was.  She  looked  darling  in  her  black-and-orange  cheerleader's  outfit  and  her  mesh  tights.  She  was  my  Hel-  ena,  and  she  came  toward  me,  smiling  her  awkward  smile;  and  we  settled  on  the  wet  groundand  held  one  another  in  the  night.  It  was  time  for  sleep.  Sheila,  the  Lady  Bears  basketball  star,  snuggled  warmly  in  my  arms.  She  made  a  surprisingly  good  fit.  She  rested  her  head  on  my  shoulder,  and  we  kissed,  a  lightly,  and  I  looked  up  at  trees  andsaw  naked  children.  How  niceto  lie  in  the  grass.  Other  players,  the  demons  and  mere  mortals,  coupled  nearby.  It  was  a  world  of  youthful-  ness  and  love.  It  was  our  sum-  mer  at  last.  Faeries  in  the  old  oaks  cradled  Bottom  and  their  mistress,  andyou  could  hear  Sam  English  braying  in  ecstasy.  Beneath  a  tree,  sprawled  face  down  on  the  ground,  lay  Mary  Frost,  my  poor  Hermia.  She  looked  so  pale,  sostuporous.  There  would  be  plenty  of  time,  later  in  Act  IV  or  V  or  whatever  act  this  was,  to  wake  up,  dump  Helena,  and  marry,  for  a  fitting  consummation,  the  right  girl.  It  was  the  deepof  night,  late  even  for  the  fireflies.  A  few  appeared  here  and  there.  Soon  they  would  be  gone.  In  the  meantime,  the  Lord  of  Athens  lit  a  cigarette  and  waited  in  the  wings.  *  "