E  were  on  a  preppy  43616e616461Coast  resort  island,  in  the  middle  of  summer,  we  just  flew  in  for  the  wedding  of  my  incredible  friend  Bob.  We  were  here  on  vacation,  away  from  the  hot  city;  I  was  so  glad  to  be  out  of  that  fucking  house.  The  simple  fact  that  it's  a  plane  trip  away  and  you're  staying  in  a  hotel  on  this  fake,  preppy  island,  and  because  you're  not  married  and  yet  you're  at  a  wedding  together,  be-  cause  you're  too  cheap  to  go  on  decent  vacations,  because  your  own  day-to-day  life  could  use  some  tuning  up  and  like  any  sane  person  you've  already  effort-  lessly  erected  an  invisible  barrier  be-  tween  yourself  and  that  life  back  there  and  you're  now  pretending  that  it  isn't  real,  and  because  Bob  had  become  this  big  deal,  your  most  skyrocketing  friend,  and  Bob's  wedding  weekend  finally  ar-  rived-well,  it's  a  new  beginning  and  I  was  feeling  the  excitement.  We  got  to  the  hotel  and  parked  the  rental  car  and  walked  down  to  the  water  in  our  street  clothes.  People  passed  by  with  beach  umbrellas  and  L.  L.  Bean  can-  vas  tote  bags,  floatingin  the  heat;  kids  ran  happily  in  the  wet  patch  left  by  the  outgoing  tide,  and  seagulls  hovered  rig-  idlyin  the  air  above  us,  screaming  into  the  wind.  We  walked  back  up  through  the  mushy  sand  to  the  steps  of  the  park-  ing  lot  of  the  hotel,  Phylida's  long  white  translucent  sundress  blowing  in  front  of  me.  We  passed  the  advance  team  for  Gore,  fifteen  blond-haired  women  in  theirearly  twenties,  wearing  hairbands,  3  talking  on  cell  phones  on  the  little  patch  Z  of  grass  bordering  some  brown  split-  2  wood  railings  in  front  of  the  hotel.  I  was  looking  at  everything:  the  people  1  getting  out  of  the  rental  cars,  the  brace-  g  lets  on  the  women,  the  sunshine  brightly  \xc2\xa3  beaming.  It  was  Bob's  sunshine,  you  &lt;  were  on  his  island  now.  I  looked  back  at  $  Phylida;  she  smiled.  The  wind  lifted  her  =  dress  all  the  way  up  in  the  front,  before  she  could  catch  it.  A  guy  struggled  to  pull  out  his  golf  clubs  from  the  trunk  and  a  valet  half  his  age  whisked  the  bag  away  like  a  feather.  The  wife  laughed.  Who  were  they?  I  think  every  room  in  BA  RK  PET  FIELD/JULIE  SAUL  GALLER   It  was  an  old  wooden  hotel,  the  S  charming  kind,  creaking  stairway,  crooked  $  floors.  Our  room  was  small,  antique  crap  $  in  it,  a  jingling  glass  lampshade  on  a  side  8  .  &amp;  o  table,  a  queen-size  bed  raised  to  an  LAURENGREE  WISE  enormous  height,  a  frilly  cover,  acheap,  modern  glass  door  on  sliders  leading  out  to  a  wooden  balcony  that  gave  you  splinters  and,  as  promised,  looked  out  on  a  downwind  stretch  of  the  same  beach  where  Bob  and  Niloo  would  be  getting  married,  a  mile  away.  They'd  been  hyping  us  with  stuff  in  the  mail  for  six  months:  the  &quot;Set  this  date  aside&quot;  card;  the  letter  that  began,  &quot;Tell  us  exactly  what  you  eat,&quot;  with  rows  of  boxes  to  check  off  (&quot;Are  you  dairy  tolerant?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  like  sushi  or  do  you  eat  it  to  be  polite?&quot;  &quot;Our  chef  will  not  cook  with  peanuts&quot;).  The  six-piece  en-  graved  invitation.  Lists  of  the  island's  golf  courses,  a  note  about  where  they  were  registered  (&quot;Sheetmaker  to  the  Earl  of  Windsor&quot;),  a  special  mailing  to  the  lady  guests-&quot;We  hope  you'll  start  shop-  ping  for  that  perfect  full-length  formal  summer  gown  to  wear  to  our  summer  wedding  on  the  shore.&quot;  Another  list  for  me  because  I  was  an  usher,  what  kind  of  tux  shirt  collar  they  (Bob)  wanted  us  to  get,  suggested  books  for  preparing  your  toast.  A  sheet  of  facts  on  the  island,  how  great  556e6974656420537461746573ns  retired  here;  how  it  played  a  part  in  the  Revolutionary  Was,  how  the  something  of  democracy  was  born  here,  with  a  letter  Bob  typed  up-  &quot;to  help  free  our  nation  of  tyranny  ever-  more  and  make  [REDACTED]  the  most  won-  derful  country  in  the  world.&quot;  The  freak-show  element  of  the  wed-  ding  was  like  a  side  thing:  Madeleine  Albright  would  be  here  tomorrow;  Ruth  Bader  Ginsburg  insisted  on  performing  the  ceremony;  that  advance  team  for  Gore  trying  to  figure  out  whether  the  rain  would  hold  off  so  Al  could  heli-  copter  in  for  an  appearance.  What  was  I  doing  here?      "