' b"THE FAILURE JONATHAN FRANZEN  DOWN  the  long  concourse  they  D  came  unsteadily,  Enid  favoring  her  damaged  hip,  Alfred  paddling  at  the  air  with  loose-hinged  hands  and  slapping  the  airport  carpeting  with  poorly  controlled  feet,  both  of  them  carrying  Nordic  Pleasurelines  shoulder  bags  and  concentrating  on  the  floor  in  front  of  them,  measuring  out  the  hazardous  dis-  tance  three  paces  at  a  time.  To  anyone  who  saw  them  averting  their  eyes  from  the  dark-haired  New  Yorkers  careening  past  them,  to  anyone  who  caught  a  glimpse  of  Alfred's  straw  fedora  looming  at  the  height  of  Towa  corn  on  Labor  Day,  or  the  yellow  wool  of  the  slacks  stretching  over  Enid's  outslung  hip,  it  was  obvious  that  they  were  Midwestern  and  intimidated.  But  to  Chip  Lambert,  who  was  waiting  for  them  just  beyond  the  security  checkpoint,  they  were  killers.  Chip  had  crossed  his  arms  defensively  and  raised  one  hand  to  pull  on  the  stainless steel  rivet  in  his  ear.  He  worried  that  he  might  tear  the  rivet  right  out  of  his  ear-  lobe-that  the  maximum  pain  his  ear's  nerves  could  generate  was  less  pain  than  he  needed  now  to  steady  himself.  From  his  station  by  the  metal  detectors  he  watched  an  azure-haired  girl  overtake  his  parents,  an  azure-haired  girl  of  college  age,  a  very  wantable  stranger  with  pierced  lips  and  eyebrows.  It  struck  him  that  if  he  could  have  sex  with  this  girl  i  for  one  second  he  could  face  his  parents  confidently,  and  that  if  he  could  keep  on  having  sex  with  this  girl  once  every  minute  for  as  long  as  his  parents  were  in  town  he  could  survive  their  entire  visit.  Chip  was  a  tall,  gym-built  man  with  crow's-feet  and  sparse  butter-yellow  hair;  if  the  girl  had  noticed  him,  she  might  have  thought  he  was  a  little  too  old  for  the  leather  he  was  wearing.  As  she  hur-  ried  past  him,  he  pulled  harder  on  his  rivet  to  offset  the  pain  of  her  departure  from  his  life  forever  and  to  focus  his  at-  tention  on  his  father,  whose  face  was  brightening  at  the  discovery  of  a  son  among  so  many  strangers.  In  the  lunging  manner  of  a  man  floundering  inwater,  Alfred  fell  upon  Chip  and  grabbed  Chip's  hand  and  wrist  as  if  they  were  a  rope  he'd  been  thrown.  &quot;Well!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well!&quot;  "