 b"T8  FICTION  HOW  WAS  IT,  REALLY?  trouble  remembering  how  it  had  actually  been  in  the  broad  mid-  dle  stretch  of  his  life  when  he  was  living  with  his  first  wife  and  helping  her,  however  distractedly,  raise  their  children.  His  second  marriage,  which  had  once  seemed  so  shiny  and  amaz-  ing  and  new,  now  was  as  old  as  his  first  had  been-twenty-two  years,  ex-  actly-when  he  had,  one  ghastly  week-  end,  left  it.  His  second  wife,  Vanessa,  and  he  lived  in  a  house  much  too  big  for  them  yetso  full  of  souvenirs  and  fragile  inherited  treasures  that  they  could  not  imagine  living  elsewhere.  In  their  present  circle  of  friends,  the  main  INCREASINGLY,  Ed  Franklin  had  Theirs  was  the  last  divorce  of  all.     BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  a**  gossip  was  of  health  and  death,  whereas  once  the  telephone  wires  had  buzzed  with  word  of  affairs  and  divorces.  His  present  wife  would  set  down  the  tele-  phone  to  announce  that  Herbie  Ed-  gerton's  cancer  had  come  back  and  ap-  peared  to  be  into  his  lymph  nodes  and  bones  now;  thirty  years  ago,  his  first  wife,  Alissa,  would  hang  up  and  ask  him  if  they  were  free  for  drinks  and  take-out  pizza  at  the  Bradleys'  this  Saturday.Yes,  she  would  go  on,  it  was  such  short  notice  that  it  would  have  been  rude  from  anybody  but  the  Brad-  leys.  They  were  socially  voracious,  now  that  psychotherapy  had  helped  them  tosee  that  they  couldn't  stand  each     other.  Everybody's  mental  and  marital  health,  Ed  remembered,  was  frail,  so  frail  that  women,  meeting,  would  fol-  low  their  &quot;How  are  you?  with  &quot;No,  how  are  you  really?&quot;  And  then-this  with  an  averted  glance  and  the  hint  of  a  blush  from  Alissa-she  had  seen  Wendy  Martin  in  the  superette  and  impulsively  asked  her  and  Jim  to  drinks  tomorrow  eve-  ning.  She  had  said  yes,  they'd  love  to,  but  they  couldn't  stay  more  than  a  minute,  Jimhad  the  Planning  Com-  mission  meeting,  they  were  fending  off  this  evil  out-of-state  developer  who  wanted  to  turn  the  entire  old  Crossman  estate  into  Swiss-chalet-  " b"style  condos.  Just  paraphrasing  Jim's  flighty  wife  made  Alissaglow.  This  at  least  was  vivid  in  Ed's  memory,  the  way  her  eyes  would  become  bluer  and  her  cheeks,  a  bit  sallow  normally,  pink,  and  her  lips,  usually  pursed  and  pen-  sive,  would  dance  into  remarks  and  laughter  when  Jim  was  near  or  in  prospect.  He  couldn't  blame  her;  he  had  been  as  bad  as  she,  looking  out-  side  the  home  for  strength  to  keep  the  home  going.  The  formula  had  worked  only  up  toa  point-perhaps  the  point,  somewhere  in  their  forties,  when  they  realized  that  life  wasn't  endless.  They  had  been,  actually,  among  the  last  in  their  old  set  to  get  divorced;  they  had  stayed  on  the  sinking  ship  while  its  deck  tilted  and  its  mast  splintered  and  its  sails  flapped,  whipping  loose  line  everywhere.  A  teetotaller  now  (weight,  liver,  conflicting  pills),  Ed  could  remem-  ber  the  drinks-drinks  on  porches  and  docks,  on  boats  and  lawns,  in  living  rooms  and  kitchens  and  dens.  The  high  metallic  sheen  of  gin,  the  slightly  more  viscid  transparency  of  vodka,  the  grain-golden  huskiness  of  bourbon,  the  paler,  caustic  timbre  of  Scotch,  the  column  of  beer  with  its  rising  flut-  ing  of  bubbles,  the  sprig  of  mint,  the  slice  of  orange,  the  chunk  of  lime,  the  delicate  bowls  of  white  and  red  wine  floating  above  the  glass  table  on  their  invisible  stems,  the  little  sticky-  rimmed  glasses  of  anisette  and  Coin-  treau  and  B  &amp;  B  and  green  Chartreuse  that  followed  dinner,  chasing  the  min-  utes  toward  midnight,  while  the  more  prudent,  outsiderish  guests  peeked  at  their  watches,  thinking  of  the  babysit-  ter  and  tomorrow's  sickly-sweet  head-  ache.  He  remembered,  from  the  view-  point  of  a  host,  the  magnanimous  crunch  of  ice  cubes  broken  out  of  their  aluminum  trays  with  an  authoritative  yank  of  the  divider  lever,  and  the  pan-  try's  high-shouldered  array  of  half-gal-  lon  bottles  from  the  liquor  mart  be-  side  the  superette,  the  cost  of  liquor  a  kind  of  dues  you  cheerfully  paid  for  membership  in  the  unchartered  club  of  young  couples.  How  curiously  filling  and  adequate  it  was,  the  con-  stant  society  of  the  same  dozen  orso  people.  Western  frontiersmen,  Ed  re-  membered  reading  somewhere,  said  of  buffalo  meat  that,  strange  to  say,  you  never  tired  of  eating  it.  The  Franklins  friends  would  arrive  for  weekday  drinks  at  six,  harried  and  mussed,  children  in  tow-the  women  bedraggled  by  a  day  of  housework,  the  men  with  their  city  pallor  fresh  off  the  train-and  be  slowly  transformed;  dizzyingly  confid-  ing  and  glamorous  and  fnfime,  they  would  not  leave  much  before  eight,  when  the  time  had  long  passed  to  get  the  children  decently  fed  (they  had  been  devouring  potato  chips  and  Fig  Newtons  around  the  kitchen  televi-  sion)  and  into  bed.  &quot;How  did  you  and  Mom  ao  it?&quot;  Ed's  sons  and  daughters  asked  him,  with  genuine  admiration,  of  his  old  servantless  four-child  household.  His  children  as  they  homed  in  on  forty  lived  in  city  apartments  or  virtually  gated  New  Jersey  enclaves,  with  one  or  two  children  of  their  own,  whose  nurture  and  protection  required  daily  shifts  of  Caribbean  women,  tag-team  caregivers,  one  to  achieve  the  dress-  ing  and  the  administration  of  break-  fast  and  safe  passage  to  nursery  school,  and  another  to  supervise  the  evening  meal  and  bath  and  bedtime  video.  Nevertheless,  his  daughters  were  ex-  hausted  by  motherhood,  which  had  come  to  them  late,  as  a  bit  of  biologi-  cal  moonlighting  from  their  thriving  professional  careers;  conception  had  been  rife  with  psychic  tension  and  childbirth  fraught  with  peril.  His  sons  spoke  solemnly,  apprehensively  to  him  about  the  education  of  their  chil-  dren  and,  even  more  distant,  the  job  prospects  available  to  these  toddlers  in  the  twenty-first  century.  They  both,  his  two  sons,  performed  some  in-  scrutable  monkey  business  among  computers  and  equities,  and  they  thought  in  long-range  demographic  curves.  Ed  had  to  laugh,  being  inter-  viewed  by  them  as  a  kind  of  pioneer,  a  survivor  of  a  mythic  age  of  do-  mesticity,  when  giant  parents  walked  the  earth.  &quot;You  were  there,&quot;  he  re-  minded  them.  &quot;You  remember  how  it  was.  Our  key  concept  was  benign  ne-  glect.&quot;  But  they  would  not  be  put  off  and,  indeed,  half  persuaded  him  that  he  had  been  an  epic  family  man,  chop-  ping  forests  into  cabins  in  the  wilder-  ness  of  the  baby  boom.  Tracking  their  own  children's  prog-  ress,  they  asked  him  how  old  they  had  T9  been  when  they  first  crawled,  walked,  talked,  and  read,  and  he  was  embar-  rassed  to  say  that  he  could  not  remem-  ber.  &quot;Ask  your  mother,&quot;  he  told  them.  &quot;She  says  she  doesn't  remember,  ei-  ther.  She  says  we  were  all  wonderfully  normal.&quot;  An  only  child,  born  in  the  Depres-  sion,  Ed  had  been  honored  at  his  birth  with  the  purchase  of  a  big  white  book,  its  padded  cover  proudly  embossed  &quot;Baby's  Book,&quot;  in  which  pages  printed  in  dove-colored  ink  waited  for  the  entry  of  his  early  achievements  and  thedates  thereof.  He  was  surprised  to  discover  that  his  mother,  in  that  lit-  tle  curly  backward-slanting  hand  that  seemed  to  his  eyes  the  very  distilla-  tion  of  methodical  maternity,  had  en-  tered  everything  up  through  his  vari-  ous  graduations  and  his  first  wedding;  she  had  not  bothered  with  her  grand-  children  or  his  second  nuptials.  How  odd  it  is,  he  thought,  that  [REDACTED]'s  present  prosperity,  based  upon  our  outworking  the  Germans  and  the  Jap-  anese,  has  produced  the  same  pinched,  anxiously  cherishing  families  as  the  Depression.  His  children's  individual  developments  had  become  in  his  fail-  ing  mind  an  amiable  tangle  while  he  daily  dined  on  the  social  equivalent  of  buffalo  meat.  THE  lack  of  recall  almost  fright-  ened  him.  Did  he  help  the  kids  with  their  homework?  He  must  have.  Did  he  and  Alissa  ever  go  grocery  shopping  together?  He  hadno  image  of  it.  The  beds,  how  had  they  got  made,  and  themeals,  how  had  they  got  onto  the  table  for  twenty-two  years?  Alissa  must  have  done  it  all,  somehow,  while  he  was  reading  the  sports  page.  Having  the  babies,  now  such  a  momentous  rite  of  New  Age  togetherness  and  unashamed  body-  worship,  was  something  else  she  had  done  alone,  in  the  hospital,  without  complication  or  much  complaint  af-  terward;  the  baby  just  appeared  in  a  basket  beside  her  bed,or  at  her  breast,  and  in  a  few  days  he  drove  the  two  of  them  home,  two  where  there  had  been  one,  a  doubling  like  a  magic  trick  whose  secret  was  too  quick  for  the  eye.  The  last  childbirth,  he  did  remember,  came  on  a  winter  midnight,  and  the  obstetrician,  awakened,  had  swung  by  " b"in  his  car  for  her,  and  she  had  looked  up  smiling  from  the  snowy  street,  like  a  Christmas  caroller,  and  disappeared  into  the  doctor's  two-tone  Buick.  Left  alone  with  the  residue  of  their  chil-  dren,  he  had  been  jittery,  he  remem-  bered,  and  convinced  thata  burglar  or  crazed  invader  was  in  thebig  creaky  house  with  him,  and  had  fallen  asleep  only  after  taking  a  golf  club-a  three-  iron,  selected  for  its  length-into  bed  withhim,  for  protection.  He  tried  to  picture  Alissa  with  a  vacuum  cleaner  and  couldn't,  though  he  remembered  himself,  in  the  din-  ing  room  of  the  first  house  they  had  lived  in,  wielding  a  wallpaper  steamer,  laying  the  big  square  pan  against  the  wall  for  a  minute  or  two  and  stripping  the  paper  with  a  broad  putty  knife  and,  in  drenched  shorts  and  T-shirt,  Levin?  wading  through  curling  wet  sheets  of  faded  silver  flowers.  Once  a  week,  in  that  same  room,  she  would  serve  flank  steak,  it  came  to  him,  the  brown  meat  nicely  tucked  around  a  core  of  peppery  stuffing,  and  the  whole  plat-  ter,  garnished  with  parsley  and  little  red-skinned  potatoes,  redolent  of  by-  gone  home  economics,  of  those  touch-  ing  fifties-born  culinary  ambitions  that  sought  to  perpetuate  a  sense  of  the  family  meal  as  a  pious  ceremony  heavy  with  female  labor.  All  those  meals  slavishly  served,  and  in  the  end  he  had  cast  her  away  like  an  outworn  shoe.  Vanessa  and  he,  with  no  children  to  feed,  had  become  grazers,  snackers,  eaters-out,  sometimes  taking  their  evening  meal  separately,  picking  at  microwave-safe  containers  while  Peter  Jennings  put  warmth  into  the  news.  " b" &quot;But  what  did  you  do  about  sep?  F  OY  th  ree  About  children  waking  up  all  night?&quot;  e  L2  dug:  generations  one  of  his  hardworking  daughters,  with  tender  blue  shadows  beneath  her  eyes,  persisted.  Of  remarkable  &quot;You  all  slept  through,  virtually  from  birth,&quot;  he  told  her,  suspecting  he  women,  On  ly  was  lying  but  unable  tolocate  the  truth  ;  *  f  of  it.  There  had  been  a  child  whim-  the  my  Sterl\xc3\xa9s  0  pering  about  an  earache  and  falling  .  asleep  with  the  hurting  ear  pressed  the  pdSt  C4  against  the  heat  of  a  fresh-ironeddish  towel.  But  was  this  himself  as  a  child?  He  could  not  remember  Alissa  withan  iron  in  her  hand.  He  did  remember  getting  out  of  bed  in  the  pit  of  night  and  bringing  a  squalling  armful  of  protoplasm  back  to  bed  and  handing  it  to  Alissa,  who  was  already  sitting  up  with  her  nightie  straps  lowered,  her  bare  chest  shining.  He  would  go  back  to  sleep  to  the  sound  of  tiny  lips  suck-  ing,  little  feet  softly  kicking.  He  had  been  the  baby,  it  seemed.  Yet  no  social  workers  came  to  the  door  to  rescue  his  children  from  abuse,  no  neighbors  complained  to  the  authorities,  the  chil-  dren  went  off  to  the  school  bus  dressed  like  the  others-like  little  clowns  in  the  space-age  outfits  of  synthetic  fab-  rics  decades  removed  from  the  dark  woollens,  always  damp,  that  he  him-  A  a  iP&quot;  self  had  worn-and  rose  more  or  less  [W  W  f  \xef\xac\x82y  smoothly  through  the  passages  of  f  .  school  and,  like  smart  bombs,  found  T  oanes  4  &quot;@  colleges  and  mates  and  jobs,  so  he  \xe2\x80\x9cm  e  H  I  KAWA  must  have  been  an  adequate  parent  ,  St  .g  t&quot;&quot;  .=  %  and  householder.  &quot;It  frightens  me,&quot;  he  confessed  to  his  daughter,  &quot;how  littleI  remember.&quot;  The  Saturday  afternoons  of  it  all,  the  masculine  feats  ofmaintenance,  &quot;An  extraordinarily  polished  and  graceful  look  at  three  generations  of  women  and  their  lost  loves  ...  [a  resonant]  exploration  of  mothers  and  daughters,  husbands  and  lovers,  sex  and  commitment,  4a6170616e  and  U\xc2\xab  R  u  Pb  \xc2\xbb  the  changing  of  the  storm  windows  to  [REDACTED],...  pensive,  erotic,  deeply  moving.  screens,  the  cellar  workbench  where  -Publishers  W\xe2\x80\x99\xc3\xa9ekly,  starred  review  spiders  built  webs  across  the  clutter  of  rusting  tools.  The  heating,  electric-  &quot;A  thoughtful  and  magnetic  tale.&quot;  ity,  telephone,  and  water  bills-he  -Chitra  Divakaruni,  author  of  Sister  of  My  Heart  could  not  see  himself  writing  a  sin-  gle  check,  but  he  must  have  written  many,  all  cashed,  cancelled,  and  stored  in  Alissa's  attic,  along  with  the  slides,  &quot;Allows  us  to  inhabit  a  way  of  life  half  a  world  and  half  a  the  scrapbooks,  the  school  reports  b  39  and  tinted  school  photographs  that  century  dIStant'  had  accumulated  over  twenty-two  -Jean  Hegland,  author  of  Intothe  Forest  years  of  days,  each  with  its  ups  and  downs,  its  mishaps,  its  sniffies,  its  ex-  As  cited  tales  told  by  children  ventur-  Bantam  \xc2\xa5  Hardcover  www.bantam.com  ing  toward  adulthood,  through  a  world  that  on  every  side  was  new  to  them.  Ed  " b"had  lost  the  anatomy.  He  was  like  an  astronomer  before  the  Voyagers,  be-  fore  the  Hubble  telescope,  working  with  blurs.  He  remembered  being  in  love  with  one  or  another  man's  wife,  getting  drunk  after  dinner,  Alissa  hav-  ing  gone  to  bed,  and  listening  over  and  over  to  &quot;Born  to  Lose,&quot;  by  Ray  Charles,  or  maybe  it  was  the  Su-  premes'  &quot;Stop!  In  the  Name  of  Love,&quot;  lifting  the  player  arm  from  the  LP  time  and  again  to  regroove  the  band,  and  being  told  with  a  shy  smile  the  next  morning  by  his  older  son,  &quot;You  sure  listened  to  that  song  a  lot  last  night.&quot;  The  curtains  for  a  moment  parted;  there  was  a  second  of  shamed  focus.  His  son's  bedroom  waswhere  Ed  had  sat  sunk  in  himself  and  the  re-  volving  grooves;  he  had  kept  the  boy,  who  had  to  get  up  for  school,  awake.  And  what  of  his  girls'  dating,  that  traditional  tragicomedy,  with  its  over-  tones  of  Attic  patricide,  in  the  age  of  the  sitcom?  His  older  daughter  had  gone  off  to  boarding  school  when  she  was  fifteen,  and  his  younger  daughter  had  been  but  twelve  when  he  left  the  house.  He  could  scarcely  remember  a  single  hot  rod  swerving  into  the  crack-  ling  driveway  to  carry  off  one  of  his  trembling  virgins.  OW  this  younger  daughter  invited  him  to  have  drinks  on  a  boat.  He  didn't  have  to  drink  liquor,  of  course,  she  explained.  More  and  more  peo-  ple  didn't;  it  interfered  with  their  training  routines.  She  herself  ran  in  local  mara-  thons;  her  hair,  which  like  Alissa's  had  begun  to  turn  white  early,  was  cut  short  as  a  boy's,  to  lower  wind  resistance,  he  supposed.  The  deal  was  this,  Dad:  the  husband  of  a  friend  of  theirs  was  turning  forty,  and  she  was  giving  him  as  one  of  his  presents  a  sunset  cruise  in  the  marshes,  and  since  his  parents  were  coming  the  friend,  the  wife-are  you  following  this,  Dad?-  wanted  some  other  members  of  the  older  generation  to  be  there,  so  could  you  and  Vanessa  come,  since  you  know  I  guess  the  husband's  father  from  play-  ing  a  few  golf  tournaments  with  him?  Actually,  when  he  shook  his  peer's  hand,  under  the  canopy  of  the  flat-bottomed  cruise  boat,  he  remembered  him  as     THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  17,  1999  an  opponent  who  had  once  illegally  switched  balls  on  the  eighteenth  green  and  then  sunk  the  putt  to  win  the  match.  At  the  time,  Ed  hadn't  wished  to  undergo  the  social  embarrassment  of  complaining  to  the  officials,  but  he  had  avoided  club  tournaments  ever  since;  now  the  man-one  of  those  odious  exultant  retirees  with  a  face  in-  creased  and  thickened  by  an  all-year  tan-crowed  over  that  remembered  triumph.  His  wife,  who  was  somewhat  younger  than  he,  and  preeningly  dressed  in  clothes  that  would  have  looked  less  garish  in  [REDACTED],  fastened  onto  Va-  nessa  as  her  only  soul  mate.  Ed  drifted  away,  trying  to  hide  among  thedrink-  ing  young  couples,to  whom  he  had  nothing  to  say.  Not  drinking  did  that-  it  deprived  you  of  things  to  say.  How  strange  it  was  to  be  once  more  at  a  party  where  the  women  were  still  menstruating.  Lean,  smart,  they  moved  and  twittered  and  struck  poses  with  an  electricity  like  that  in  silent  movies,  which  look  speeded  up.  The  men  in  their  checked  jackets  and  pastel  slacks  were  boyish  and  broad-relatively  clumsy  foils  for  their  wives'  animation,  which  in  the  shuffle  of  the  party  kept  sprouting  new  edges,  abrupt  new  an-  gles  of  slightlystartled  loveliness.  Ed  inhaled,  as  if  to  extract  from  the  salt  air  the  scent  of  their  secretions,  their  secrets.  It  had  been  at  parties  like  this  that  he  had  met  Vanessa  Bradley,  had  mingled  with  her  and  her  husband.  The  similarity  ofher  name  to  Alissa's  had  been  one  of  the  attractions;  she  would  be  a  wife  with  a  &quot;v&quot;  added,  for  vim  and  vigor,  for  vivacity  and  vagina  and  victory.  He  had  fallen  in  love  with  her,  she  had  fallen  with  him,  and  here  they  were,  more  than  twenty  years  later.  The  boat  trundled,  with  its  burden  of  canned  music  and  clinking  drinks  and  celebrating  couples,  out  through  the  winding  channel  between  the  black-mud  banks  of  the  golden-green  marsh  toward  the  wider  water,  where  islands  crammed  with  shingled  sum-  mer  houses  slowly  changed  position,  starboard  to  port,  as  the  captain  put  it  through  a  scenic  half  circle.  There  was  a  white  lighthouse,  and  a  stun-  ning  sunstruck  slope  where  some  " b" baron  of  old  had  decreed  a  symmetri-  cal  pattern  of  trimmed  shrubs  like  a  great  ideogram,  and  a  mock-Tudor  cluster  as  tight  as  an  Italian  hilltop  village,  the  eaves  and  dormer  peaks  beaded  with  ruddy  low  light,  and  a  marina  whose  pale  masts  stood  as  thick  as  wheat,  and  a  nappy  blue-  green  far  stretch  of  wooded  land  mi-  raculously  yet  undeveloped,  and  the  eastward  horizonof  the  open  sea  already  darkening  toreceive  its  first  starlight  while  the  undulating  land  to  the  west  still  basked  under  luminous  salmon  stripes.  Ed  silently  gazed  out-  ward  at  all  this,  and  his  fellow-passen-  gers  gave  it  moments  of  notice,  but  the  main  thrust  of  their  attention  was  inward,  toward  each  other,  in  bright  and  gnashing  conversations  grow-  ing  shrill  as  the  drinks  sank  in,  a  feast  of  love  drowning  out  the  canned  music.  That  was  how  it  was,  how  he  had  been,  the  living  moment  awash  with  beauty  ignored  in  the  quest  for  a  better  moment,  slightly  elsewhere,  with  some  slightly  differing  other,  while  the  weeds  grew  in  the  peony  beds,  and  dust  balls  gathered  beneath  the  sofa,  and  the  children,  unobserved,  plotted  their  own  escapes,  their  own  elsewheres.  A  few  children  had  come  along  with  their  parents  and,  after  being  admonished  not  to  fall  overboard,  fended  for  themselves.  To  one  boy,  rapt  beside  him  at  the  rail,  Ed  on  the  homeward  swing  pointed  out  a  head-  land  and  a  rosy  mansion  whose  name  he  knew,  beyond  the  marsh  grasses  now  drinking  in  darkness  as  the  tide  slipped  away  from  their  roots.  Va-  nessa,  on  the  drive  home,  volunteered,  &quot;The  birthday  boy's  father's  wife  and  I  have  a  number  of  mutual  acquain-  tances,  it  turned  out.  She  said  an  old  college  roommate  of  mine,  Angela  Hart,  just  had  a  double  mastectomy.&quot;  Ed  thought  of  confiding  in  turn  how  magically  strange  he  had  found  it  to  be  again  among  fertile  women,  with  all  the  excitement  that  bred,  but,  though  he  might  in  his  youth-  ful  cruelty  have  once  said  something  like  this  to  Alissa-anything  to  get  her  to  respond,  to  get  the  blood  flow-  ing-between  Vanessa  and  him  there  had  come  to  prevail  the  tact  of  two  cripples,  companion  victims  of  time. "