  FICTION  THE  LAST  ONE  YAY  LECTROLYSIS  promises  perma-  E  nence,  and  hair  killed  at  the  roots.  As  far  as  Gitta  could  tell,  in  eighteen  years  of  weekly  visits  not  a  single  hair  had  been  dissuaded  from  growing.  Still,  she  crossed  to  the  Italian  section  of  Royal  Hills  each  week  and  lay  back  on  the  cracked  Naugahyde  table  in  Lili's  makeshift  salon.  Lili  would  shock  and  pluck.  They  would  talk.  Then  Gitta  would  make  her  way  home,  red-faced  and  tender,  the  crisp  sting  of  witch  hazel  humming  in  elec-  trified  pores.  Gitta  never  expected  results.  She  never  blamed  Lili,  not  her  stiffening  fin-  gers  or  her  boxy  outdated  machine.  Gitta's  life  was  one  of  infinite  patience  and  unfinished  business,  an  existence  of  relations  drawn  out.  Quick  she  didn't  look  for,  either.  The  only  quick  she  had  known  was  her  shiddach.  One  flit  of  a  date  in  the  lobby  of  a  [REDACTED]  hotel  and  the  next  month  married.  For  that  bit  of  economy  she  had  paid  with  eighteen  years  of  miserable  marriage  and  eigh-  teen  years  separated,  as  she  waited  for  her  husband,  Berel,  to  grant  a  divorce.  She  was  like  the  wife  of  a  lost-at-sea  sailor,  staring  out  a  window  and  wait-  ing  for  news  of  a  sinking.  Only  a  change  of  heart  or  a  dead  body  could  set  her  free.  Gitta  was  Royal  Hills'  agunaep,  its  woman  in  waiting-trapped  in  a  Jew-  ish  marriage  by  loopholeless  laws.  Not  to  think  that  New  York  State  did  for  her  better.  A  state  with  no  no-fault  divorce.  She  couldn't  even  get  the  bless-  ing  of  the  Gentile  court.  Her  reasons  weren't  prima  facie.  The  judge  was  not  impressed.  What  more  should  she  have  to  say  than  that  she  didn't  want  to  be  married?  Idiot  rules.  No-fault  in  itself  was  an  idiot  concept.  Anyone  who's  experienced  will  tell  you  the  same:  when  a  marriage  fails,  always,  always  there  is  fault.  Lili,  up  on  the  stool,  flicked  switches.  The  circular  bulb  of  the  magnifying   light  crackled  while  the  gases  fired  up  and  raced  around  the  tube.  She  pushed  the  light  into  place-Gitta's  halo.  She  then  witch-hazeled  the  glass  center,  witch-hazeled  the  needle,  witch-hazeled  Gitta,  and  leaned  in.  &quot;I  went  to  the  cabalist,&quot;  Gitta  said,  &quot;went  to  the  rabbi.  Useless  both.&quot;  &quot;And  who  said  they'd  be  useless  from  the  start?&quot;  &quot;Still,  I  thought,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;Bet-  ter  to  try  them  one  more  time.  And  such  mystical  numbers  I  brought.  A  cabalist's  feast.  Married  at  eighteen  for  eighteen  years.  And  now  eighteen  years  waiting  for  a  divorce.  One  sec-  ond  it  took  to  explain.  Clear  as  I'm  tell-  ing  you.&quot;  &quot;Easy  numbers,&quot;  Lili  said.  &quot;I  got  the  same  as  they've  been  giv-  ing  all  along.  The  rabbi  wanting  to  know  if  there  was  someone  else,  if  I'd  fallen  in  love,  if,  God  forbid,  I  was  preg-  nant.  The  cabalist,  no  better.  A  blessing  at  the  end,  much  maze/  and  a  healed  marriage  and  a  houseful  of  children.  He's  wishing  me  children.  And  me  with  a  hot  flash  in  the  middle.&quot;  &quot;They're  waiting  for  your  husband  to  die  of  old  age.  They'll  bring  you  a  divorce  when  they  can  trail  in  the  mud  off  his  grave  along  with  it.  Enough  is  enough.  If  he  needs  to  die  for  you  to  live,  then  see  to  it  yourself.&quot;  For  em-  phasis,  Lili  sank  in  the  needle  and  hit  the  pedal  twice,  shock-shocking  Gitta  and  tweezing  out  the  freed  hair.  &quot;I  picture  it  done,  sometimes,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;Berel  face  down  behind  the  su-  permarket,  drowned  in  a  puddle,  or  in  his  apartment  with  a  broken  neck,  by  a  broken  ladder,  an  empty  fixture  hanging  from  the  ceiling,  and  a  light  bulb  bro-  ken  in  his  hand.  Accidents.  Who  would  guess?  No  trail  from  him  to  me,  from  me  to  you,  from  you  to  a  husband  with  a  cousin  who  knows  people  who  do  such  things.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  simple  transaction,  Gitta.  Berel's  life  spent  to  buy  back  yours.  At  this  point,  a  fair  price  to  pay.&quot;  Gitta  pushed  away  the  needle.  &quot;Terrible.  Terrible  talk,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;There  is  still  the  matchmaker.  A  saner  idea.&quot;  &quot;Who's  been  saying  matchmaker  from  the  start?  You  want  business  done,  do  it  in  a  business  way.  You  don't  go  looking  for  some  rabbi's  sympathy,  you  go  to  the  source.  If  this  guy  made  the  match,  let  him  undo  it,  and  let  him  know  there  are  more  permanent  so-  lutions.  Trust  me,  it's  not  killing  but  the  prospect  of  killing  that  gets  things  done.&quot;  &quot;And  if  it  doesn't?&quot;  &quot;Then  there  is  killing.  Win-win  situ-  ation.  For  once.  For  Gitta.  Win-win.&quot;  HEN  Gitta  walked  out  on  Berel  she  was  carrying  a  fresh  load  of  laundry.  She  steppedout  of  the  build-  ing  with  her  arms  wrapped  around  the  basket  ina  hug.  Berel  had  bounded  after  her.  And  if  he'd  screamed  for  her  to  stop,  to  come  back,  it  would  have  been  the  first  romantic  thing  he'd  ever  done.  Gitta  had  turned  to  give  him  the  chance.  All  she'd  found  was  Berel's  same  old  expression:  Berel  grinding  his  teeth  and  staring  at  her  with  a  disgust  so  pas-  sionate  and  absolute  she'd  confused  it  with  truth.  She  gave  him  two  beats,  two  passes  3  of  a  grinding  lower  jaw.  She  waited  for  3  him  to  order  her  into  the  house,  to  shout  &quot;You'll  be  back!&quot;or  &quot;I'll  be  buried  at  your  side!&quot;  Gitta  put  down  the  basket  and  drew  a  sheet  from  the  top,  wrapping  it  around  her  shoulders  like  a  shawl.  &quot;More  love,  more  comfort,  more  warmth  from  the  laundry  than  in  halfa  lifetime  under  your  roof.&quot;  Then  she  left.  It  was  only  as  she  crossed  the  street  that  she  heard  Berel  screaming  over  the  wind.  &quot;Neither  of  us  is,  Gitta.  Neither  of  us  is.  But  especially  you.  You  are  no  prize.&quot;  No  prize,  she  felt,  was  possibly  true.       She  was  trapped  i  n  a  Jewish  marriage  by  loophole  l  ess  laws.  Only  a  change  of  heart  or  a  dead  body  could  set  her  free.  But  was  she  so  worthless  that,  simply  to  remind  her,  Berel  was  willing  to  waste  both  their  lives?  HE  matchmaker  put  down  his  sand-  wich  and  dabbed  at  his  chin.  Gitta  had  interrupted  his  lunch.  Looking  at  the  woman  now,  Liebman  remem-  bered  her  then.  He  was  a  pious  man  and  not  one  for  staring.  But  the  match-  maker,  well,  he  is  in  a  highly  special-  ized  field,  like  the  doctor.  He  is  forced  tolook,  to  see,  with  honest  eyes.  His  memory  confirmed  what  he  saw  before  him:  a  woman  not  easy  to  match.  This  was  not  just  a  cruel  judgment,  not  because  one  of  her  eyes  was  maybe  a  little  higher  than  the  other  and  one  of  her  breasts  a  lot  lower.  It  had  nothing  even  to  do  with  her  hirsuteness.  What  Liebman  could  not  afford  to  ig-  nore  was  her  nature.  A  generous  person  might  pretend  not  to  notice.  But  it's  the  matchmaker's  job  to  know.  Gitta  Floog  had  always  been  different,  and  that  threat-  ened  everyone.  And,  for  all  the  unfairness  she'd  seen  in  her  life,  Royal  Hills  some-  how  looked  upon  her  thankfully.  A  sad  case,  but  always  someone  has  to  suffer.  Bet-  ter  it  was  Gitta.  Somehow,  underneath,  they  thought  Gitta  got  what  she  deserved.  For  this  prevailing,  unspoken  notion  Liebman  felt  worst  of  all.  In  thirty-six     66  years  of  successful  matchmaking  she  was  his  only  agunah.  And  to  his  only  agunah  he  owed  his  success.  Little  Liebman  had  long  trailed  Hes-  hel  the  Matchmaker,  begging  for  a  chance  to  make  a  match  on  his  own.  Heshel,  drinking  tea  one  afternoon  with  all  the  big  machers,  had  called  Liebman  over,  thought  it  would  be  funny  togive  his  mascot  a  shot.  Slurping  athis  tea,  and  biting  through  a  sugar  cube  clamped  between  rotten  teeth,  Heshel  pulled  Liebman  onto  his  knee.  &quot;Spmegegge,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I've  got  a  job  for  you.  The  Floog  girl  needs  a  man.&quot;  And,  in  the  way  matchmakers  joke  privately,  he  added,  &quot;The  time  has  come  to  cutoff  her  braids  and  trim  down  that  beard.&quot;  Liebman  skulked  off.  He  did  not  fool  himself  about  the  task.  When  he  was  at  a  more  delicate  age  his  own  father  used  to  slap  him  on  the  back  of  the  head  and  tell  him  to  drink  some  milk,  to  learn  some  more  Torah.  &quot;Not  a  hair  on  you  and  already  the  girls  in  your  grade  have  mustaches  like  they've  learned  the  Ge-  mara  once  through.&quot;  To  everyone's  surprise,  Liebman  had  married  her  off-and  in  one  date,  yet.  Parents  began  sleeping  better,  no  longer  worrying  over  the  boy  with  the  short  leg,  the  girl  with  the  port-wine  stain,  and,  worse,  the  children  with  selfishness  and  anger  etched  in  their  eyes.  Liebman's  business  was  airborne.  For  ashort  while,  until  the  neighbors  started  whispering  about  the  noise  from  the  newlyweds  apartment  and  the  loveless  look  to  the  husband  and  his  head-hung  wife,  it  was  true  glory  for  the  new  matchmaker.  Since  then  Gitta  had  become  his  shame.  It  was  bad  for  business  to  have  her  standing  there  with  arms  crossed  and  tapping  a  foot,  Gitta  Floog  on  display  in  his  dining-room  window.  Liebman  sighed.  He  waved  her  forward,  rushed  her  down  a  hallway.  Gitta  expected  no  less.  She  followed  him  into  a  back  office  with  a  ratty  couch  and  a  file  cabinet,  a  dingy  room  looking  onto  an  alley.  This  is  how  Little  Liebman  the  match-  maker  found  himself  alone  with  Gitta  Floog  as  she  tried  to  persuade  him  to  undowhat  he'd  done.  &quot;Forty  years  ago,  Gitta.  My  very  first  match.&quot;  &quot;Why  me  for  practice?  Why  my  life  sacrificed  to  get  started  yours?&quot;  She  dropped  down  onto  the  crumpled  sheet  spread  over  the  sofa.  &quot;A  good  rate,  Gitta.  Even  for  a  first  match.  Even  for  then.  A  symbolic  com-  mission  I  took,  if  ever  there  was.&quot;  He  did  not  mention  the  miracle  he  had  per-  formed.  &quot;Forty  years  is  late  for  a  cus-  tomer  to  come  back.&quot;  &quot;Thirty-six,  first  of  all.  Eighteen  mar-  ried,  eighteen  waiting  for  Berel  to  break.&quot;  &quot;So  thirty-six.  Still  a  long  time  for  the  customer  to  return.&quot;      Gitta  stood  up,  moved  close  to  Lieb-  man.She  looked  down  into  his  eyes.  &quot;A  hammer,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;At  Sears  they  will  replace  a  hammer  for  life.&quot;  &quot;This  is  because  of  volume,  Gitta.  Where  there  is  volume  people  can  af-  ford.&quot;  &quot;So  I'll  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;Same  as  a  match.  I'll  pay  you  to  unmake  a  wed-  ding,  same  as  to  do.&quot;  ELI’S  eye  swam  over  the  glass,  swelled  and  softened,  ran  suddenly  long.  Then  precision  focus  and  Lili's  steady  gaze.  This  was  how  Gitta  knew  her,  through  snippets  of  clarity  and  a  collec-  tion  of  ever-warping  parts,  a  view  from  the  underside  of  the  magnifying  light.  And  she  was  surethat  Lili  knew  her  only  from  above:  that  she'd  pass  her  on  the  street,  unfamiliar  with  Gitta  upright,  part  of  a  crowd.  What  Lili  knew  were  pores,  the  space  between  nose  and  snail  of  lip-  and  more  intimately  than  any  lover  had  known  any  part  of  a  loved  one's  body.  &quot;What  doyou  mean,  Liebman  doesn't  want  to  get  involved?&quot;  Lili  said,  turning  up  the  power  of  the  machine.  &quot;We  have  involved  him  already.  The  day  he  intro-  duced  you  to  Berel  he  involved  himself.  Tell  him  that,  Gitta.  Tell  him  when  Berel  shows  up  dead  he'll  have  no  trou-  ble  understanding.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  do  any  of  this.&quot;  &quot;Then  Plan  B.&quot;  Lili  shouted  to  her  husband,  &quot;Gennaro,  get  over  here!&quot;  They  heard  his  footsteps  as  he  approached  the  curtain  that  split  the  rest  of  the  room  from  the  salon.  &quot;What?&quot;  he  said  through  the  fabric.  Gitta  propped  herself  up  on  her  el-  bows.  &quot;Do  not,  Lili.  Do  not  start  this  yet.  Not  as  a  joke,  not  as  a  threat.  Because  I  really  might  want  it.  If  we  do  it,  we  do  it  for  real.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Gennaro  said.  &quot;Put  on  the  rice.  Go  put  on  the  rice  for  dinner.&quot;  They  were  silent  while  he  walked  off.  Then  Lili  whispered,  &quot;You  go  explain  to  that  midget.  You  tell  the  matchmaker  that  he  better  beat  a  divorce  out  of  your  husband  before  you  make  the  problem  disappear.  Tell  him  what-  ever  you  need  to  tell  him,  Widow  Floog.  Because  you've  got  three  choices.  The  matchmaker,  Gennaro's  cousin,  or  shut-  ting  your  mouth.  If  you're  never  going  to  do  anything,  then  save  us  both  some  en-  ergy.  At  least  keep  your  mouth  shut  so  I  can  do  my  work.&quot;  THE  LAST  ONE  WAY  Lili  guided  the  needle.  &quot;Back  to  the  matchmaker,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  pressed  the  pedal  and  held  it  down  until  Gitta  thought  she  saw  smoke.  KNOCKING  did  not  bring  Liebman,  so  Gitta  looked  around  the  al-  leyfor  something  with  heft.  Next  to  a  Dumpster  she  found  a  pipe  with  a  joint  on  the  end  and  tested  its  weight.  This  she  swung  against  the  metal  door  at  the  back  of  the  matchmaker's  apartment.  Each  blow  left  a  dent  and  made  a  noise  that  carried.  She  had  lifted  the  pipe  for  a  third  swing  when  Liebman  peered  through  the  grimy  window  and  opened  the  door  to  the  back  room.  He  had  an  arm  raised.  Gitta  was  a  large  woman,  and  even  a  small  foe  with  such  a  weapon-  well,  he  would  not  put  anything  past  her.  The  old  suspicion.  &quot;Put  that  thing  down.&quot;  Liebman  cowered.  &quot;I've  got  a  frontdoor,  too,  you  already  know.&quot;  &quot;Not  trying  to  complicate,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;Not  trying  to  make  extra  trouble  for  you.  You  hide  me  in  the  back  room,  I'll  keep  myself  hidden.  I'm  interested  only  in  finishing  our  business.&quot;  &quot;Business  we  don't  have.  You  want  your  money  back  you  can  have  it.  I  ad-  mit  your  match  was  no  success.&quot;  Gitta  dropped  the  pipe,  pushed  past  Liebman,  and  made  her  way  to  the  crumpled  sheet  on  the  ratty  couch.  Gitta  was  not  the  only  person  who  had  trouble  with  Berel.  He  had  been  known  for  other  acts  of  hard-heartedness  over  the  years.  Liebman  was  well  aware  that  there  was  no  talking  to  the  man  and  that  no  divorce  would  be  granted  without  draw-  ing  some  blood.  Liebman  wrung  his  hands.  &quot;I  can't  help  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  could  you  be  back  for  but  to  hear  it  again?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  my  life  is?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  know  how  it  is?&quot;  Liebman  thought  about  this.  Shewas  trapped.  She  was  a  woman  anchored  to  a  foul  husband,  a  married  widow  or  maybe  a  divorced  wife.  And  he  was  also  aware  of  the  superstition  that  surrounded  her,  mothers  stepping  between  their  newly-  wed  daughters  and  Gitta's  crooked  gaze.  She  was  a  woman  who  raised  whispers.  Yes,  he  thought  he  understood.  &quot;I  know  they  talk  about  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  this  time  and  they  still  talk.&quot;  &quot;You  think  I  don't  hear  the  nonsense?&quot;  Gitta  turned  red.  &quot;They  treat  me  like  a  witch.  They  say  Berel  snapped,  chased  me  around  the  house  with  a  razor,  and  kicked  me  out  in  a  rage.  They  say  I  made  a  deal  with  the  Devil  andwas  suddenly  free  of  hair  and  husband-  but  like  any  Devil  deal  it  went  horribly  wrong.&quot;  She  covered  her  mouth.  &quot;I  got  rid  of  it  to  be  pretty.  The  day  I  left.  Got  rid  of  it  to  maybe  meet  a  new  husband,  have  a  child  or  two,  and  start  a  nice  life.&quot;  &quot;And?&quot;  And  what  should  she  tell  him?  That  Berel  had  won  if  win-  ning  meant  ruining  her  life  and  losing  meant  seeing  her  happy  and  free?  Instead,  Gitta  told  him  what  she  needed  to  see  the  job  done:  &quot;Maybe  it  is  late,  Liebman,  maybe,  you  think,  sad.  But  I'm  here  to  tell  you&quot;  -she  smoothed  her  skirt,  looked  away-  &quot;Gitta  Floog  has  fallen  in  love.&quot;  &quot;Can't  be,&quot;  Liebman  said,  so  surprised  he  didn't  consider  the  insult  involved.  &quot;A  shock,  I'm  sure.  But  such  things  happen  on  their  own.  Even  to  me.  I'm  in  love,  Liebman.  And,  like  our  mother  Sarah,  even  the  greater  wonder,  I'm  preg-  nant.  When  my  period  did  not  come,  I  thought  it  had  gone,  but  fifty-four  years  old  and  I  discover  it's  otherwise.&quot;  «Not  Berel's?&quot;  was  all  Liebman  could  say.  The  scandal!  &quot;A  genius  you  are,  Liebman.  A  de-  tective.  No,  it's  not  Berel's.  But  the  father  is  in  our  community,  a  hot-tempered  man.&quot;  She  went  on,  though  Liebman  looked  as  though  he  might  die.  &quot;We  won't  have  our  baby  born  a  bastard.&quot;  &quot;Then  there  really  is  a  man?&quot;  &quot;Modern  times,  Liebman.  Modern  times.  Still,  in  some  form  or  another  there's  generally  a  man.  Listen  to  me,  he  has  found  someone  from  outside,  someone  to  make  me  a  widow.  Berel  would  be  dead  already  if  I  hadn't  begged  a  chance  to  talk  with  you.  My  compan-  ion  is  already  decided.  'On  Liebman's  head'  is  what  he  told  me.  'The  whole  mess,  it's  butter  sitting  on  Liebman's  head.  Only  Little  Liebman  can  keep  it  from  melting  into  his  eyes.'&quot;  &quot;Who  is  he?&quot;  Liebman  buttoned  and  unbuttoned  his  collar.  &quot;When  it's  done,  you'll  know.  You'll  be  the  first  invited  to  the  wedding.  Right  now,  though,  it's  time  for  violence.  Only  two  facts  concern  you.  We'll  kill  him  and  I'm  pregnant.  So  take  your  pick.  67  Take  your  pick  for  what's  more  urgent.  Take  your  pick  for  why  it  needs  to  get  done.  But  the  butter  sits  on  your  head,  softening  already.&quot;  OT  long  after  Gitta  stepped  out  of  the  alley,  looked  both  ways,  and  crossed  the  street,  a  new  rumor  about  Gitta  Floog  began  to  spread.  Maybe  someone  looked  down  from  a  narrow  bathroom  window  at  the  banging  of  the  pipe,  or  maybe  the  sometimes  home-  less  Akiva  was  peering  out  from  the  Dumpster  when  the  back  door  closed.  Any  num-  ber  of  people  might  have  seen  Gitta  step  out  of  Liebman's  alley  into  thebright  light  of  day.  But  the  base  of  the  ru-  mor,  the  meat  of  it,  well,  only  one  person,  only  Little  Lieb-  man,  could  be  guilty  of  letting  it  slip.  Proportion  was  the  first  thing  to  go.  Even  before  the  rumor  had  reached  proper  dispatch  it  ballooned  past  belief  and  had  to  be  scaled  back  to  an  ab-  sorbable  size.  There  were  stylistic  varia-  tions,  of  course,  but  one  detail  stuck,  providing  the  rumor  with  unassailable  authenticity.  It  was  the  addition  of  Lieb  man's  name  as  the  father  of  the  child  and  Gitta's  secret  man.  It  was  a  twist  Liebman  hadn't  thought  of,  an  advan-  tage  of  which  Gitta  hadn't  dreamed.  From  that  instant  on,  no  one  needed  it  over  more  than  Liebman.  What  par-  ent  would  trust  a  matchmaker  caught  up  in  a  scandal?  How  to  let  him  judge  a  prospective  son-in-law's  character  if  he  couldn't  seem  to  manage  his  own?  No,  the  deal  was  done.  Liebman  was  fully  involved.  HREE  windows  facedthe  street  in  Gitta's  efficiency.  The  one  over  the  dormant  radiator  wasopen  a  crack.  On  the  opposite  side  of  the  long  room  was  a  kitchen  area,  the  front  door,  and  a  panel  with  the  intercom  buzzer.  It  was  after  Berel's  first  beating,  and  Gitta  sat  in  a  chair  in  the  center  of  her  apartment.  This  was  the  best  she  could  do.  Berel  was  screaming  outside.  His  voice  carried  up  the  three  stories  and  made  its  way  through  the  crack  in  the  window.  It  was  a  terrible  effect.  Gitta's  blinds  were  drawn,  and  the  voice,  local-  ized  and  harsh,  taunted  her,  as  if  Berel  were  somehow  floating  outside  her  win-     68  dow  and  yelling  in.  Then  he'd  pause-  a  second's  silence-and  the  buzzer  would  start  screeching  on  her  other  side.  Again,  there  was  this  sense  of  his  presence,  as  if  Berel  were  standing  in  the  hallway  leaning  on  a  button  right  outside  the  door.  She  had  no  television  and  no  radio.  She  couldn't  concentrate  on  her  reading  or  the  Psalms.  So  she  had  pulled  a  chair  to  the  middle  of  the  room,  asfaras  she  could  get  from  Berel  on  both  sides.  And  she  sat  there,  head  in  her  hands,  trapped  between  him.  E1  flipped  the  switch  on  her  machine  and  hit  the  side  panel  until  the  power  light  glowed.  Gitta  lay  down  on  the  table.  &quot;Repet-  itive  nightmares  like  my  father  used  to  have  about  Siberia,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Some-  times  Berel  comes  through  the  window  and  sometimes  through  the  door.  It's  an  elopement.  Berel  is  in  a  suit.  I'm  gowned  and  veiled  and  clutching  a  bou-  quet.  Every  night  he  carries  me  away,  either  by  the  door  or  down  a  ladder,  al-  ways  with  theflowers  in  my  arms.  And  always,  whether  from  their  windows  or  lining  the  hallway,  the  neighbors  are  watching  and  wishing  us  luck.  From  the  outside  it  looks  like  perfect  romance.  And  I  can  see  why  they  confuse  the  bride's  weak  moaning-all  of  them  smiling  and  waving  at  my  call  for  help.  They  stand  there  cooing  while  Berel  rips  my  dress  off,  tears  it  all  off  right  there  in  front  of  them,  everything  but  the  veil.&quot;  &quot;Under  the  veil?&quot;  Lili  wanted  to  know.  &quot;What's  under  the  veil?&quot;  &quot;Hairless,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;No  prettier  or  uglier.  But  hairless,  hairless  I  am  sure.&quot;  Lili  smiled  at  that,  went  after  a  stray  follicle  between  Gitta's  eyebrows,  landed  the  needle,  struck  a  nerve  sothat  Gitta's  left  lid  fluttered  and  she  felt  astrange  comfort,  as  if  her  face  had  been  split  magically  in  two.  &quot;He  showed  up  again  after  the  sec-  ond  beating,  showedup  out  my  win-  dow,  buzzing  at  my  door.  This  time  he  stayed  longer.  It  was  supposed  to  im-  prove,  Lili,  but  it's  made  my  life  only  worse.  Every  bit  of  punishment  he  gets,  he  takes  out  on  me  tenfold.  Hard-  hearted,  my  Berel.  That's  what  the  matchmaker  says.  He  keeps  calling  to  tell  me  Berel  will  never  give  in.&quot;  &quot;And  what  do  you  say?&quot;  &quot;I  say  exactly  as  we  practiced:  'There  are  two  ways  to  free  an  agunah.  One  is  for  the  husband  to  give  a  get.  And  the  other  is  to  bring  proof  of  his  death.  One  way  or  the  other,  Liebman.  One  way  or  the  other'&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that's  good,  Gitta.  That  last  'one  way'  is  very  good.&quot;  BEREL  was  returning  from  a  night  trip  to  the  supermarket.  One  mo-  ment  he  was  walking  and  the  next  he  was  in  a  car  with  four  other  men-his  groceries  left  spilled  on  the  sidewalk.  The  men  wore  children's  plastic  masks  with  tight  swirls  of  yellow  hair  and  red,  red  lips,  a  little  Queen  Esther  mask  on  each  one.  But  the  disguises  did  not  sufficiently  cover  their  grownup  faces.  Black  beards  burst  out  from  be-  hind  bulbous  rouged  cheeks.  Sidelocks  stuck  out  like  pigtails  from  under  elastic  bands.  They  punched  Berel  and  smacked  him  before  anyone  said  a  word.  Then  the  one  in  the  front  passenger  seat,  the  smallest  by  far,  turned  to  talk  to  Berel,  restrained  between  two  Esthers  in  the  back.  &quot;Hard  to  find  people  willing  to  beat  you  anymore,  Berel.  Not  out  of  mercy  but  because  it's  become  such  a  chore.&quot;  &quot;Such  a  tiny,  tiny  thug,&quot;  Berel  said.  &quot;I  was  wondering.  And  then  the  familiar  voice.  Since  when  are  you  so  bold,  Little  Liebman,  as  to  place  yourself  at  the  scene  of  the  crime?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  this  time  I  don't  leave  any-  one  to  talk.&quot;  Little  Liebman  motioned  to  the  two  Esthers,  and  they  wrestled  Berel  onto  his  stomach  and  taped  his  hands  to  his  ankles  so  that  they  might  carry  him  like  a  bundle.  The  one  on  the  right  un-  locked  his  door.  &quot;This  ride,&quot;  Liebman  said,  &quot;I'm  making  it  clear.  Tonight  we  make  progress.&quot;  &quot;You  want  progress,  Liebman?  I've  got  some  of  my  own.  As  soon  as  you  let  me  loose,  I'm  headed  straight  for  the  newspapers.  I'm  going  to  tip  the  goyim  off  to  the  injustice  that  goes  on.&quot;     THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  18,  1999  &quot;The  newspapers?&quot;  Liebman  laughed.  &quot;Yes,  have  them  report  it.  Just  the  kind  of  Jewish  story  the  papers  love.&quot;  &quot;It  will  ruin  you,  Liebman.&quot;  &quot;If  only  you  heard  the  rumors.  My  name  is  already  ruined.  Let  them  run  it  on  the  front  page.  In  New  York  you'll  find  no  sympathy  for  a  man  who  en-  slaves  his  wife.  The  feminists  will  bring  me  a  medal  for  beating  you.  The  mayor  will  put  me  on  a  float  in  the  Thanks-  giving  Day  parade.&quot;  The  car  headed  out  on  the  highway,  a  change  in  rhythm.  Every  few  seconds  there  was  a  seam  in  the  road  sothat  the  smoothness  of  the  ride  was  broken  by  a  rhythmic  thuck.  The  car  door  by  Berel's  head  opened  and  he  was  lowered  toward  the  flow-  ing  script  of  road.  He  worried  not  over  disfigurement  but  over  loss  of  senses,  being  rubbed  clean  of  eyes  or  tongue,  being  rolled  into  the  alley  without  his  ears.  Berel  screamed  into  the  wind  and  was  pulled  back  in.  &quot;Now  give  the  get  or  we  head  out  to  drown  you  at  Jones  Beach.  Two  to  hold  youunder  the  water  and  two  kosher  witnesses  to  watch.&quot;  &quot;You  won't  do  it,&quot;  Berel  said.  &quot;You're  a  matchmaker,  not  a  murderer.  You  un-  derstand  the  sanctity  of  unions.  Like  in  nature,  Liebman.  Like  it  says  about  pi-  geons.  You  kill  one,  you  have  to  kill  its  mate.  To  make  it  kosher  you've  got  to  kill  both,  me  and  Gitta  both.&quot;  Berel  was  once  again  lowered  out  of  the  car.  Dangerously  close.  A  pebble  shot  from  a  tire  hit  him  in  thecheek.  He  moved  his  tongue  to  try  and  find  it  in  his  mouth,  sure  the  stone  had  cut  through.  They  lifted  him  back  in.  &quot;With  arranged  marriages,&quot;  Lieb-  man  said,  &quot;a  good  match  is  as  difficult  as  separating  the  earth  from  the  sky.  Don't  you  think?  A  wonder  they  ever  hold.&quot;  Berel  buried  his  face  in  the  warmth  of  the  right-hand  Esther's  lap.  &quot;Gitta  is  desperate,  Berel.  Desper-  ate.  At  this  point  she  feels  it's  your  life  or  hers.  And  we  can't  have  another  gen-  eration  ruined  by  this  marriage.  Royal  Hills  doesn't  need  another  mamzer.  No,  we  cannothave  a  bastard  born  because  of  you.&quot;  &quot;A  bastard?&quot;  This  was  too  much.  &quot;If  she's  pregnant,  I'll  tear  it  from  her  womb.&quot;  Berel  went  mad,  fought  like  a  tiger,  put  on  quitea  show  for  a  man  with  arms  and  legstied  behind  his  back.     THE  LAST  ONE  WAY  There  was  a  struggle  to  control  him.  They  slammed  his  head  against  the  door  until  Liebman  shouted  for  them  to  stop.  He  thought  they  might  knock  the  life  from  the  body,  as  if  the  soul  were  a  filling  to  be  loosed  from  a  tooth.  &quot;Are  you  still  with  us,  Berel?&quot;  Liebman  held  on  to  the  back  of  his  seat.  Berel  nodded,  licking  his  lips.  &quot;Any  chance  you're  thinking  clearly  now?  Might  you  recon-  sider  before  we  kill  you?&quot;  &quot;That's  what  you'll  have  to  do,&quot;  Berel  said,  perking  up.  &quot;Like  in  the  American  ceremony.  Till  death  do  us  part.&quot;  Liebman  pulledoff  his  mask  and  rubbed  at  his  eyes.  He  nod-  ded  to  the  men.  This  time  when  Berel  was  lowered  out  the  door  he  felt  the  car  speed  up  and  the  grip  tighten  on  his  hair.  The  one  holding  his  legs  used  maximum  control.  And,  as  if  they  were  artisans  at-  tending  to  that  final  detail,  Berel's  head  was  forced  to  the  grindstone,  his  face  to  the  road.  For  an  instant.  For  a  touch.  The  Esthers  took  offa  perfect  circle,  a  sliver-not  deep-of  Berel's  nose.  BEREL  screamed  outside  her  window,  taunts  and  threats,  declarations  of  a  love  he'd  never  shown.  And  hisre-  frain,  &quot;Why  do  they  beat  me?&quot;  This-as  if  he  couldn't  come  up  with  a  reason-  he  yelled  again  and  again.  Gitta  had  things  she  would  have  liked  to  scream.  She'd  have  liked  to  stand  under  the  window  of  every  Jew  in  Royal  Hills  and  scream  at  the  top  of  her  lungs,  demand  to  know  why  her  di-  vorce  needed  an  excuse  or  consent,  any-  one's  help  at  all.  After  Berel  left,  Gitta  carried  her  chair  back  to  the  table,  put  on  a  sweater,  and  wandered  over  to  the  bridge.  She  followed  the  walkway,  gazing  out  at  the  river,  the  traffic  speeding  by  on  her  other  side.  This  was  the  old  decision  Gitta  had  pondered.  Not  life  or  death  for  Berel  but  traffic  or  river,  traffic  or  water,to  which  side  should  she  dive?  ETLE  LIEBMAN  handed  Gitta  an  apple  and  leaned  against  the  file  cabinet.  &quot;Showing  already,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  her  stomach.    She  stared  back  at  him,  the  corners  of  her  mouth  turned  down.  She  didn't  appreciate  the  familiarity  and  didn't  trust  Liebman's  invitation.  It  was  the  first  time  he'd  asked  her  over  since  the  beatings  began.  &quot;Every  nightmare  has  its  end,  Gitta.  Berel  has  come  to  his  senses.&quot;  &quot;Nonsense.  What,  he  promised  a  divorce  while  you  twisted  an  arm?  He  came  to  my  house  after,  same  as  al-  ways.&quot;  Gitta  lowered  herself  onto  the  couch  as  if  she  were  indeed  carrying  extra  weight.  She  sniffed  at  the  apple.  &quot;When  he  throws  the  get  in  my  face,  Little  Liebman,  then  I'll  know  it's  done.&quot;  &quot;We  put  a  fear  into  him  and  he  wouldn't  budge.  We  dumped  him  in  the  alley  half  dead  and  still  swearing  he'd  never  see  you  free.  Then  three  days  ago  he  shows  up  here,  then  yesterday,  and  again  this  morning.  Each  time  more  remorseful,  each  time  clearer  in  what  he  had  to  say.  It's  the  little  mamzer  that  got  him.&quot;  Liebman  pointed  at  his  belly.  &quot;Not  for  you  or  himself  does  he  have  any  mercy,  but  only  for  the  unborn.  The  suffering  of  the  father,  he  said,  should  not  be  borne  out  on  the  son.&quot;  &quot;Suddenly  there  is  sense?&quot;  &quot;He's  never  lied  before.  Stubborn  and  coconut-brained,  he  runs  around  spouting  nonsense.  But  never  has  he  agreed  falsely  to  a  divorce.  He,  too,  like  you,  thinks  there  is  some  trick.  He  says  meet  him  once  and  tell  him  to  his  face  that  you  carry  another  man's  child.  He  doesn't  ask  for  the  man's  name.  He  doesn't  want  to  hear  a  tiny  heartbeat  or  see  a  note  from  a  doctor.  He  says,  af-  ter  the  degradation  of  how  he  learned,  he  will  only  bring  you  a  divorce  if  you  tell  him  about  the  baby  yourself.&quot;  E1  bent  a  needle.  She  put  down  the  wand  and  fished  around  for  a  re-  placement,  talking  all  the  while  and  working  herself  into  a  rage.  &quot;Eighteen  years  it  takes  you  to  build  up  the  courage  and  then  you  buy  into  nonsense  like  this.  I'm  coming  with  you,  Gitta.  I'm  going  to  strangle  that  bum  myself.&quot;  &quot;The  matchmaker  is  right.  Berel's  -  never  lied.&quot;  Lili  slid  the  magnifying  light  out  of  the  way  and  moved  her  face  right  to  Gitta's  so  that  crooked  eyes  crossed.  &quot;You're  meeting  in  a  hotel,  fine,  per-  fect.  But  let  me  tell  you  something,  Berel's  not  offering  you  a  divorce,  Gitta,  he's  offering  an  alibi.  Why  not  have  it  so  when  he  leaves  a  gypsy  cab  jumps  the  curb  and  runs  him  down?  You  can     TO  be  the  first  to  scream,  to  yell  in  a  lobby  with  a  hundred  witnesses,  while  Berel  is  hit-and-runned  right  outside.&quot;  &quot;I  lived  with  him  for  too  long  not  to  know  what  goes  on  in  that  miserable  mind,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;Berel  is  finally  tired.  He  is  going  to  give  me  my  divorce.  Soon  I'll  have  my  life  back  and  then  who  knows  what  I'll  do?  Get  to  work  on  those  roots,  Lili.  I  might  yet  find  romance.&quot;  YES,  she  was  bitter.  Her  second  date  in  fifty-four  years  and  again  with  Berel.  Again  in  the  lobby  of  a  Man-  hattan  hotel.  Her  corpse  would  rot,  she  was  sure,  without  her  ever  having  had  anyone  hold  open  a  door.  Gitta  stepped  down  three  stairs  into  adeep,  narrow  lobby,  chose  a  couch  and  a  chair  unoccupied  by  any  of  the  long-  legged,  knife-chinned  men  and  women-  so  smartly  dressed  and  fortified.  Before  she  had  sunk  fully  into  the  chair  a  waitress  approached.  Gitta  or-  dered  a  créme  de  menthe,  which  she  would  not  touch.  Her  way  of  paying  rent  for  sitting.  Gitta  had  crossed  the  street  more  thanonce  to  avoid  Berel,  hurried  into  the  women's  section  or  out  a  side  door  to  escape  a  confrontation  at  shul.  This  wasn't  the  first  time  she'd  laid  eyes  on  him  since  she  left,  but  as  he  made  his  way  down  those  three  steps,  her  only  lover  in  a  lifetime,  her  husbandand  tormentor,  she  realized  that  she'd  not  uttered  a  word  to  him  in  all  those  years.  He'd  gotten  old.  His  beard  was  full  of  white  and  his  cheeks  hung  loose  on  his  skull.  And  then  there  were  the  bruises.  She  could  see  the  blood-black  of  one  under  his  beard  and  the  more  shocking  perfect  scab  on  the  end  of  his  nose.  &quot;I  came  to  ask  you,&quot;  he  said,  in  avoice  detached,  as  if  send-  ing  a  message  with  this  Gitta  to  take  back  to  his  wife,  &quot;if  you'll  give  me  the  child.&quot;  Gitta  chewed  at  her  bottom  lip,  lowered  her  chin.  Despicable  from  the  start.  &quot;Not  this  way,&quot;  Gitta  said.  &quot;I  say  what  you  want  to  hear  and  you  give  me  what's  left  of  my  life.&quot;  &quot;I'm  allowed  to  ask,  no?  Denied  so  many  things,  you  couldn't  expect  I  wouldn't  ask.&quot;  Berel  was  sad,  suddenly.  Gitta  could  see.  Amazing.  How  many  crimes  produce  only  victims,  she  won-  dered,  everyone  claiming  innocence  and  everyone  hurt.  The  waitress  put  down  a  napkin  and  set  a  glass  in  front  of  Gitta.  &quot;You've  fallen  so  low  that  you  eat  in  a  fref  hotel?  So  adultery  is  not  your  only  sin?&quot;  &quot;It's  only  a  drink,  Berel,  and  I've  yet  to  touch  it.  And  what  I  do  is  none  of  your  business.  I  want  from  you  only  one  thing.&quot;  &quot;And  I  wanted  from  you  only  one  thing.  The  duties  of  a  wife  fulfilled.&quot;  He  did  not  change  his  tone,  but  the  old,  loose  skin  began  to  tighten,  his  rage,  as  from  an  organ  ruptured,  began  to  seep  into  cheeks  and  purple  tongue,  spread  through  the  broken  veins  of  his  nose.  &quot;All  I  wanted.  To  see  my  name  live  on.&quot;  &quot;Wasted  energy,  Berel.  Itell  you  I'm  pregnant  and  then  you  give  me  a  divorce.  Agreed?  Just  as  you  told  Liebman.&quot;  Berel  snorted  atthat.  &quot;What  is  my  word  to  Liebman,  who  beats  and  degrades  me  and  is  said  to  be  the  father  of  your  bastard  child?&quot;  &quot;What  is  this,  Berel?&quot;  Gitta's  voice  lost  its  edge.  &quot;This  is  not  what  was  planned.&quot;  &quot;No,  neither  did  I  plan  a  life  of  misery  because  of  you.  I  was  about  to  give  you  a  divorce,  you  should  know.  Thought  it  out,  talked  to  my  rebbe,  I  was  literally  on  my  way  over  to  arrange  it  the  first  time  they  pulled  me  into  that  car.  Later,  even  with  those  Na-  zis  hounding  me,  I  saw  it  was  time  to  give  in.  Then  Liebman  told  me  you  were  pregnant.&quot;  €  How  he  knew  her,  under-  stood  how  to  tear  her  in  half,  not  Lili's  peaceful,  electric-needle  magic,  but  how  to  tear  her  whole  being  apart,  rip  her  brutally  in  two.  «You  weren't  ever  going  to  give  any-  thing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  is  another  of  your  tortures.&quot;  &quot;Shaming  me,  making  me  a  shame  in  my  community,  and  you  talk  of  tor-  ture.  What  does  a  whore  need  a  divorce  for  when  she  sells  herself  either  way?&quot;  Gitta  went  hot  with  panic.  Her  re-  curring  reality  was  as  bad  as  her  night-  mares.  It  was  supposed  to  improve.  Somehow,  sometime,  her  life  was  sup-  posed  to  get  better.  She  grabbed  at  Ber-  el's  sleeve  and  pulled  him  close.  &quot;There  is  no  baby,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;My  own  trick.  I've  been  loyal  all  these  years.&quot;  Gitta  tried  for  a  smile  but  got  tears.  &quot;Now  you  must,&quot;  and  she  was  crying,  &quot;must,&quot;  and  she  was  yelling,  &quot;must  give  me  a  divorce  before  I  die.&quot;  &quot;I  only  came  for  the  truth,&quot;  he  said.  And  like  that  he  was  up,  shaking  her  hand  free,  and  taking  the  three  stairs  in  a  stride.  Gitta  stood  andwatched  Berel  push  his  way  through  the  revolving  door,  saw  a  handsome  young  man  pop  out  in  his  place.  She  tried  to  imagine  the  high-  pitched  screech  of  brakes,  the  car  hitting  and  thumping,  the  gypsy  cab  racing  off  into  the  night.  Gitta  could  call  Lili  from  a  phone  booth  and  see  it  over  with  before  morning.  She  could  wake  up  knowing  he  was  gone  and  say  her  prayers  with  fervor.  Because  she  could  take  it,  she  could  live  with  his  murder.  Gitta  unzipped  her  wallet  and  shook  her  head.  How  close  he  comes,  her  Berel.  His  whole  life  a  near-death  experience,  teetering  on  the  blade  of  her  courage.  She  thought,  too,  of  Liebman,  who  said  he  knew,  he  felt,  he  suffered  right  there  along  with  her.  Even  when  she  makes  a  denial,  even  when  no  baby  comes,  he  will  still  be  tied  to  the  ru-  mors.  Royal  Hills  would  make  it  fit,  withan  adoption,  a  miscarriage,  ahairy  dwarf  child  locked  away.  Let  him  know  from  it,  she  felt.  Let  them  whisper  his  name.  She  did  not  feel  generous.  Did  not  care.  Then  Gitta  thought  of  herself,  the  years  remaining,  the  end  of  this  life.  Let  it  be  short,  she  thought.  Though  she  knew  she  would  see  a  hundred  and  twenty  years.  It  would  be  like  in  the  old  wives'  tales,  corpses  laid  to  rest  still  growing  thick  yellow  nails  and  wiry  hair.  And  this  Gitta  knew,  folk-  tale  or  not,  would  be  her  doom-  buried,  waiting,  the  wrong  man's  ring  going  loose  around  her  finger,  and  a  scholar's  beard  growing  and  grow-  ing.  Roots  buried  deeper  than  even  Lili  had  dreamed.  Hair  growing  from  bone.  