 b'FICTION  BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR A FRIEND IN THE TRADE' b"R  ARCHIVE  O  E  Lu  U3  (I)  R  S  I  M  O  &amp;  a  ,_  he  just  U  HEY  fell  in  love  when  &quot;A  Whiter  I  Shade  of  Pale&quot;  played  all  sum-  mer.  They  married  when  Tony  [REDACTED]  sang  &quot;Tie  a  Yellow  Ribbon  Round  the  Old  Oak  Tree.&quot;  These  tunes  are  faded  memories  now,  hardly  there  at  all,  and  they've  forgotten  Procol  Harum  and  Suzi  Quatro  and  Brotherhood  of  Man,  having  long  ago  turned  to  Brahms.  The  marriage  has  managed  well,  moving  with  ease  through  matrimony's  stages,  weathering  its  storms.  It  seems  absurd  to  Clione  when  she  looks  back  that  she  fussedso  because  at  their  first  dinner  party  her  husband  of  a  month  in-  nocently  remarked  that  she  hadn't  made  the  profiteroles  herself.  It  was  ridiculous  in  turn,  James  has  apologized,  that  he  banged  out  of  the  house  when  coffee  was  spilled  over  Pedbury's  &quot;The  Optimistic  Gardener,&quot;  ridiculous  that  he  had  not  been  calm  when  they  missed  the  night  train  at  the  Gare  de  Lyons,  ridiculous  that  they'd  rowed  about  it  when  the  workmen  laid  the  wrong  tiles.  The  intensity  of  passion,  and  touchi-  ness  surfacing  quickly,  gave  way  to  famil-  ial  pleasures  and  familial  pressures-three  children  growing  up,  their  grandpar-  ents  growing  old.  Tranquillity  came  when  the  children  grew  up  a  little  more,  when  a  Sunset  Home  took  in  a  grandfa-  ther,  a  Caring  Fold  a  grandmother.  Give-  and-take  ruled  the  middle  years;  the  mar-  riage  took  on  the  odds  and  won.  Passed  through  the  battle,  surviving  dog  days'  ennui,  love  now  seems  surer  than  before.  Clione  is  still  petite,  as  slender  as  ever  she  was,  with  wide  blue  eyes  that  still,  oc-  casionally,  have  a  startled  look.  Beauty  has  not  finished  with  her:  her  delicately  made  features-straight  classic  nose  and  sculp-  tured  lips-are  as  they  always  were,  and  cobweb  wrinkles  have  an  attraction  of  their  own.  She  is  glad  she  did  not  marry  some-  one  else  and  could  not  in  a  million  years  have  ever  considered  being  unfaithful.  She  knows-she  doesn't  have  to  ask-that  her  husband  has  not  been  faithless,either.  He  deals  in  first  editions  and  manu-  scripts.  As  well,  they  run  the  Asterisk  Press  together,  publishing  the  verse  of  &amp;  poets  who  are  in  fashion,  novellas,  short  stones  from  time  to  time  a  dozen  or  so  g  pages  of  reminiscence  by  a  writer  whose  &amp;  standing  guarantees  the  interest  of  col-  &amp;  lectors.  All  business  is  conducted  from  home,  an  old  suburban  house  in  south-  \xe2\x82\xac  west  [REDACTED],  not  far  from  the  river.  Pro-  vincial  auctions  are  attended  in  pursuit  of  forgotten  tomes  and  the  letters  of  the  lit-  erati,  alive  ordead.  The  business  of  the  Asterisk  Press-the  choosing  of  type-  faces  and  bindings,  paper  of  just  the  right  shade  and  weight,  mail-order  sales--pro-  vides  a  contrast.  A  catalogue  that  com-  bines  both  sources  of  livelihood  is  pub-  lished  every  six  months  or  so.  Years  ago,  the  trade  in  first  editions  and  other  rarities  threw  up  Miching-  thorpe,  who  specializes  mainly  in  what  he  calls  nineteenth-century  jottings.  A  &quot;trade  friend,&quot;  Clione's  husband  calls  him,  but  there  is  more  to  it  than  this  im-  plies.  Since  before  the  children  were  born,  before  the  funerals  of  the  grand-  parents,  Michingthorpe  has  been  a  regu-  lar  presence  in  the  house  near  the  river.  He  has  brought  with  him  the  excitement  of  jottings  that  are  special;  a  discovery  that  defies  or  contradicts  the  agreed  opin-  ion  of  academe  delights  him  most  of  all.  But  anything  will  do,  for  everything  is  special,  or  becomes  so  in  Michingthorpe's  possession.  Scraps  of  letters  are  lovingly  laid  out;  the  beginning  of  a  Dickens  chapter  that  was  not  proceeded  with;  frustrated  Coleridge  lines,  scratched  out,  begun  again;  anote  to  a  tailor;  initials  on  a  bill.  All  have  been  offered  to  James  and  Clione  for  perusal  and  admiration.  Michingthorpe  talks  mostly  about  him-  self.  In  remarking  on  the  particular  way  a  great  Victorian  author  had  of  looping  his  &quot;L&quot;s  or  &quot;Y&quot;s,  he  manages  to  make  the  matter  personal  to  himself,  going  on  to  relate  that  he  loops  his  own  letters  in  that  way,  too,  or  does  not.  Responding  to  a  comment  or  prediction  about  the  weather,  he  recalls  how  when  he  was  in  4974616c79  once-on  the  track  of  a  John  Cross  jot-  ting-rain  for  six  days  caused  the  canals  to  rise,  trapping  him  in  his  hotel  with  nothing  better  to  reread  than  Chester-  ton's  life  of  Browning,  which  he  had  not  cared  for  the  first  time.  If  frost  is  forecast,  he  recalls  that  it  brings  on  an  ailment.  He  had  an  uncle  who  perished  in  a  storm,  struck  by  the  bough  of  a  cherry  tree.  Michingthorpe  was  already  running  to  youthful  fat  when  he  first  became  a  trade  friend;  he  is  fatter  now.  The  flesh  that  smudges  the  contours  of  his  face  is  pale.  Eyes,  behind  spectacles,  are  slate-  colored  and  small.  His  hair  was  conven-  tionally  short  when  he  was  younger;  now  its  gray  mat  obscures  his  ears  in  so  dis-  tinctive  a  manner  that  Clione  has  heard  her  waggish  son  likening  Michingthorpe  to  a  New  Testament  disciple.  Had  Mich-  ingthorpe  himself  heard  that,  he  would  not  have  minded  but  possibly  would  have  67  recalled  that  as  a  schoolboy  he  wrote  an  essay  on  the  subject  of  the  Last  Supper  and  was  awarded  a  prize  for  it.  He  wel-  comes  it  when  he  is  spoken  of,  adverse  comments  being  rarely  recognized  as  such.  When  her  middle  child  was  three  years  old,  Clione  came  into  the  sitting  room  one  day  to  hear  Michingthorpe  ex-  plaining  why  it  was  that  oysters  did  not  agree  with  him.  He  recounted  occasions,  before  he  was  aware  that  they  did  not,  when  disaster  had  occurred.  Still  on  the  subject  of  his  digestion,  he  next  spoke  of  a  dressmaker  who  had  takena  liking  to  him  in  his  own  childhood,  always  having  rock  buns  ready  when  he  called  in  to  see  her.  The  rock  buns  had  no  ill  effects,  even  though  on  one  occasion  he  had  eaten  seven.  Changing  the  subject,  though  without  alteration  of  expression  or  tone,  he  reported  that  when  he  first  wore  spec-  tacles  everything  tilted-whole  rooms,  and  lampposts,  the  pavement  when  he  walked  on  it.  This  led  to  a  memory  of  someone's  saying,  &quot;We  see  God's  world  as  God  would  wish  us  to.&quot;  Once,  in  a  zoo,  hewatched  a  gorilla  escape.  He  recog-  nized  the  passing  Boris  Karloff  on  the  street  one  day.  Often  he  speaks  of  wait-  ers-how  skilled  or  careless  one  was  last  week,  what  he  had  eaten  on  that  occa-  sion,  whose  company  he  was  in.  His  mealtime  companions  are  always  from  the  trade,  business  conducted  over  soup  and  entr\xc3\xa9e  and  pudding.  In  the  past  Michingthorpe  appeared  to  dress  more  ordinarily:  clothes  that  were  hardly  noticeable  in  youth-jeans  and  T-shirts-are  more  emphatic  with  his  long  gray  hair,  as  if  they  seek  to  make  a  point  or  perpetuate  some  illusion.  There  are  chunky  jerseys  to  go  with  them,  horn  buttons  down  the  front.  &quot;I  daresay  we  all  are  someone  else's  unpresentable  friend,&quot;  Clione  has  said,  causing  James  and  her  children  to  laugh,  because  Clione  herself  is  not  in  the  least  unpresentable.  The  children,  who  are  adults  now-  the  waggish  boy,  two  younger  girls-have  ages  ago  come  to  regard  Michingthorpe  as  they  do  the  familiar  items  of  furniture  in  their  parents'  house.  He  is  something  that  has  been  there  for  as  long  as  the  but-  toned  sofa  in  the  hall  has  been,  and  the  ugly  picture  of  mules  drawing  carts  on  the  stairway  wall,  the  davenport  on  the  first-  floor  landing.  For  all  the  children's  lives  he  has  come  and  gone,  expected  or  not  ex-  pected,  some  detail  at  once  related  about  the  journey  he  has  made.  &quot;Oh,  God,  that  " b"      man!&quot;  the  children  have  cried,  when  young,  when  older.  Not  that  Michingthorpe  has  ever  noticed  them  much,  seeming  not  ever  to  have  established  which  is  which.  Among  themselves  they  still  wonder,  as  they  always  have,  how  itis  that  he  continues  to  be  a  welcome  visitor  in  their  parents'  house.  The  fact  bewilders  them  but  then  is  packed  away  as  oneof  the  small  mysteries  that  haunt  the  separation  of  generations.  The  children  are  visitors  themselves  now,  coming  back  to  the  house  when  they  are  ill  or  unhappy  in  a  love  affair,  though  often  leaving  again  without  men-  tioning  anything;  or  coming  back  be-  cause  they  are,  all  three,  affectionately  disposed  toward  both  their  mother  and  their  father.  Their  mother's  fifty-first  birthday  draws  them  for  Sunday  lunch  one  damp  February  weekend,  the  last  time  it  will  be  celebrated  in  this  house,  for  after  nearly  twenty-five  years  there  is  to  be  a  move.  &quot;We  rattle  about  like  two  aging  peas,&quot;  Clione  has  said,  &quot;now  that  you  have  left  us  on  our  own.&quot;  Two  days  ago  an  offer  was  made  for  a  converted  oasthouse  in  Sussex.  Tomorrow  it  will  be  known  if  it  has  been  accepted.  Clione  has  privately  resolved  that  if  it  isn't  she'll  somehow  find  the  extra  money  and  pay  the  asking  price.  Her  childhood  was  passed  in  the  country,  and  already  she  has  wondered  about  keeping  a  dog-a  spaniel-as  once  she  did.  Time  has  been  on  her  hands  since  her  children's  going;  she  wants  to  grow  her  own  vegetables  again,to  have  as-  paragus  beds,  tocosset  anemones  and  daphnes  and  hellebores.  Some  intuition  tells  her  she'll  delight  in  that.  This  prospect  cheers  Clione  after  her  children  have  left,  all  together  in  the  late  afternoon,  and  the  house  has  gone  quiet  again.  She  wears  a  dress  she  bought  spe-  cially  for  her  birthday  lunch,  two  shades  of  green,  a  silk  scarf  with  an  ivy  pattern  at  her  throat.  Her  presents  clutter  the  sit-  ting  room  and  there  are  torn  cardboard  packages  on  the  floor,  four  different  kinds  of  shiny  colored  paper  waiting  to  be  folded:  at  Christmas,  it  can  be  used  again.  Her  cards  are  on  the  mantelpiece.  A  Ro-  sel  pepper  grinder  is  on  the  hearthrugbe-  side  her  where  she  kneels,  her  new  yellow  coffeemaker  on  the  armchair  she  usually  sits  in,  Mahler's  Sixth  Symphony  on  disk  beside  it.  The  glow  of  smokeless  fuel  throws  back  a  little  heat  at  her.  Clione  misses  her  children.  It  is  miss  ing  them  that  drew  her  to  the  oasthouse,  to  thoughts  of  vegetables  and  plants.  And  THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  8,  1999  the  chances  are  that  her  children  will  be  drawn  to  it,  too,  that  they'll  come  there  more  often  than  to  the  house  in  [REDACTED],  that  they'll  delight  in  the  summer  coun-  tryside  and  weekend  walksabout  the  lanes,  in  winter  bleakness,  the  trees  skele-  tal,  brown  empty  hedges.  She  longs  for  her  children  sometimes,  wanting  to  set  the  time  back  to  when  there  were  chil-  dren's  worries,  so  very  easy  to  comfort,  to  when  her  children  gaveher  what  a  hus-  band  can't,  not  even  the  most  generous.  That  a  child  was  stillborn  is  never  spoken  of  by  James  or  by  herself;  their  living  children  do  not  know.  She  pushes  away  a  surge  of  melan-  choly  and  thinks  again  about  the  chang-  ing  seasons  in  a  garden  that  does  not  yet  quite  exist,  about  fitting  in  all  the  para-  phernalia  of  theAsterisk  Press  in  the  upstairs  rooms.  No  longer  kneeling,  she  leans  back  against  the  seat  of  an  arm-  chair,  her  legs  slipped  more  comfortably  to  one  side.  Her  eyelids  droop.  THERE  is  something  about  Miching-  thorpe's  way  of  ringing  a  door-  bell  that  indicates,  in  this  house  at  least,  who  it  is:  a  single  short  ring,  shorter  than  most  people's  and  never  repeated.  Michingthorpe  knows  the  sound  can  be  heard  in  all  the  rooms,  that  if  the  sum-  mons  is  not  answered  no  one  is  in,  even  though  some  lights  are  on.  Her  doze  disturbed,  Clione  imagines  him  already  in  the  room  and  bearing,  as  her  children  have,  a  brightly  wrapped  gift.  The  unlikely,  sleepy  fantasy  goes  on  a  little  longer:  she  sees  herself  in  grati-  tude  embracing  Michingthorpe-which  she  has  never  done-and  hears  her  voice  exclaiming  over  what  their  visitor  has  brought.  Dusk  is  giving  way  to  darkness.  She  shovels  more  coal  onto  the  fire,  then  pulls  the  curtains  over  all  three  win-  dows.  The  hall  door  bangs  downstairs.  Minutes  later,  in  his  long  black  over-  coat,  Michingthorpe  is  giftless  in  the  sitting-room  doorway.  &quot;I  knew  of  course  that  it  was  there.&quot;  He  speaks  to  the  air,  as  he  always  does,  addressing  no  one.  &quot;The  funeral  two  months  ago,  disposal  of  the  library  on  the  eighth.  They'd  no  idea.  All  that  stuff  and  they'd  no  idea.  I  had  the  pickings  to  myself.&quot;  He  doesn't  take  his  overcoat  off.  He  has  a  way  of  sometimes  not  doing  that.  He  sits  down,  still  talking,  saying  he  spent  the  night  before  in  the  temper-  " b"A  FRIEND  IN  THE  TRADE  ance  hotel  of  the  town  he  visited,  the  only  hotel  there  was.  He  and  a  local  bookseller  were  the  only  dealers,  and  all  the  bookseller  wanted  was  the  Hardy.  Sluggish  on  the  sofa,  Michingthorpe  polishes  his  glasses  and  carefully  replaces  them  as  he  speaks.  &quot;Frightful  journey.  Change  twice  and  a  tree  down  on  the  lineat  Immingham.  Of  course,  I  had  the  Grossmith  stuff  to  annotate.&quot;  Pouring  drinks,  James  nods.  His  fair  hair  has  gone  nondescript  and  is  reced-  ing;  in  fawn  corduroy  trousers,  checked  winter  shirt,  fawn  pullover,  he  is  a  little  stooped.  &quot;Clione's  birthday,&quot;  he  says,  offering  Michingthorpe  a  Kir.  But  nothing  that  is  outside  himself,  or  part  of  other  people,  ever  influences  Michingthorpe.  His  surface  runs  deep,  for  greater  knowledge  of  him  offers  nothing  more  than  what  initially  it  pre-  sents.  Roaming  the  Internet  is  his  hobby,  he  sometimes  says.  Still  feeling  a  little  woozy  from  the  wine  at  lunchtime,  Clione  shakes  her  head  at  the  offer  of  a  drink  and  tidies  the  room  instead.  Michingthorpe  says  he  has  formed  the  opinion  that  Conrad  con-  ducted  a  correspondence  with  a  woman  called  Rosa  Hoogwerf.  &quot;Then  residing  in  [REDACTED],  though  why  remains  a  mystery.  I've  floated  the  name  on  the  Net.&quot;  Clione  wonders  if  he  noticed  that  she  carried  a  yellow  coffeemaker  across  the  room,  or  registers  that  she  is  now  gather-  ing  up  the  remains  of  cardboard  pack-  ages  from  the  floor.  She  clears  away  the  birthday  cards  from  the  mantelpiece.  &quot;Some  woman  in  Hungary,&quot;  Mich-  ingthorpe  is  saying.  &quot;By  the  sound  of  her,  Rosa  Hoogwert's  granddaughter.&quot;  He  has  accepted  the  drink  James  poured  for  him,  and  Clione  wonders  why  he  is  here,  then  realizes  it  is  to  tell  about  the  journey  he  has  made  and  the  prize  that  has  come  his  way.  Some-  one  who  once  visited  his  flat  saw  the  re-  frigerator  open,  with  only  a  single  bottle  of  milk  in  it,  and  uncooked  sausages  on  a  plate  and  butter  still  in  its  foil.  Michingthorpe  is  unmarried,  has  appar-  ently  never  had  with  anyone-man  or  woman-what  could  be  called  a  rela-  tionship.  That  is  generally  assumed,  but  assumed  with  confidence,  and  is  not  contradicted  by  the  known  facts.  Clione  sits  down  again.  The  con-  versation  dims  to  a  gray  murmur  she   doesn't  listen  to.  She  doesn't  dislike  Michingthorpe,  she  never  has;  he  isn't  an  enemy  of  any  kind.  Sometimes  she  considers  he  isn't  even  a  bore,  simply  a  presence  with  small  slate  eyes  and  teen-ager's  hair  that  has  a  Biblical  look.  She  isn't  aware  of  how  she  knows  he  loves  her.  &quot;Not  that  I  feel  my  age,&quot;  she  sud-  denly  hears  now,  and  wonders  if  he  has  finally  acknowledged  that  there  has  been  a  birthday  in  the  house  and  has  said  when  his  is,  in  August,  as  he  has  said  before.  &quot;Miskole  is  where  that  woman  is.  She  has  a  little  English.&quot;  He  has  never,  that  Clione  can  re-  member,  met  her  eye,  for  he  doesn't  go  in  for  that  with  anyone;  yet  still  she  knows.  For  several  years-and  before,  for  she  senses  that  it  has  been  longer-  there  has  been  something  that  even  now  seems  extraordinary:  itis  incredible  that  Michingthorpe  can  love  anyone;  incredible,  too,  that  he  can  be  mysteri-  ous.  Burning  the  cardboard  shehas  col-  lected,  continuing  not  to  listen  to  what  is  said,  she  wonders  yet  again  if  he  is  aware  that  she  senses  his  attachment.  &quot;We  can  sell  the  house  at  last.&quot;  She  hears  James  passing  this  infor-  " b"TO  mation  on  and  looks  tosee  the  vagueness  it  inspires  in  Michingthorpe's  plump  fea-  tures,  as  happens  when  something  ut-  terly  without  interest  requires  his  attention.  &quot;We've  found  an  oasthouse,&quot;  she  says  herself.  There  is  a  different  reaction  now.  For  the  first  time  in  Clione's  entire  acquain-  tance  with  him,  Michingthorpe  allows  his  mouth  to  open  in  what  appears  to  be  shock.  Nor  does  it  close.  His  small  eyes  stare  harshly  at  the  air.  He  sits  completely  still,  one  hand  grasping  the  other,  both  pressed  into  hischest.  &quot;This  is  the  country?&quot;  &quot;Well,  yes.  Sussex.&quot;  There  is  a  pause,  and  then  recovery.  Michingthorpe  stands  up.  &quot;Originally  my  family  came  from  Sussex.  But  a  long  time  ago.  Michingthorpe  Ales.&quot;  &quot;We  shall  miss  you.&quot;  Clione  notices  herself  sounding  as  mischievous  as  one  of  her  children.  There  is  no  protestation  that  they'll  be  missed  themselves.  For  a  long  moment  their  empty-handed  visitor  is  silent.  But  before  he  goes  there's  more  about  the  Internet.  OURING  coffee  at  breakfast  five  days  later,  Clione  waits  to  hear  from  James  the  content  of  an  early-morning  telephone  call:  only  Michingthorpe  gets  in  touch  at  five  to  eight.  It  has  occa-  sionally  been  earlier.  &quot;He  has  been  tosee  it,&quot;  James  says.  &quot;What?  Seen  what?&quot;  &quot;The  oasthouse.  He's  been  down  there.  Well,  he  was  near,  I  think.  Anyway,  he  has  looked  it  over.&quot;  &quot;But  why  on  earth?&quot;  &quot;It's  decidedly  unlike  him,  but  even  so  he  has.  I  think  I  told  him  where  it  was.  Not  that  he  asked.&quot;  &quot;You  mean,  he  went  along  and  both-  ered  those  people  for  no  reason?&quot;  &quot;He  justsaid  he'd  looked  it  over.&quot;  A  flicker  of  unease  disturbs  Clione.  It  might  have  amused  her  if  ever  she  had  confessed  that  Michingthorpe  has  feel-  ings  for  her;  but  to  have  confessed  as  well  that  he  has  never  displayed  them,  that  her  woman's  intuition  comes  in  here,  would  have  led  too  easily  to  a  territory  of  embar-  rassment.  Could  it  all  not  be  imagination  on  her  part?  Or,  put  more  cruelly,  a  fad-  ing  beauty's  yearning  for  attention?  &quot;Oh,  but  surely,&quot;  Clione  has  heard  James's  ob-  jection,  the  amusement  all  his  now.  Better  just  toleave  it,  she  has  always  considered.  &quot;He  knows  our  offer  has  been  accepted?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  he  knows.&quot;  Two  days  later,  in  the  early  afternoon,  they  visit  again  the  house  they  have  bought,  received  there  by  an  elderly  man-a  Mr.  Witheridge-whom  they  have  not  met  before,  whose  daughter  and  son-in-law  had  showed  them  around.  They  are  permitted  to  take  measure-  ments,  and  in  whispers  speak  of  struc-  tural  changes  they  hope  to  make.  &quot;Nice  that  your  friend  liked  it,  too,&quot;  the  old  man  says,  waiting  downstairs  with  tea-  cups  on  a  tray  when  they  have  finished.  Profuse  apologies  are  offered,  and  ex-  planations  that  sound  lame.  Some  silly  muddle,  James  mutters.  &quot;Oh,  good  heavens,  no!  Oasthouses  are  in  Mr.  Michingthorpe's  family,  it  seems.  Michingthorpe  Ales,  he  mentioned.&quot;  The  garden  is  little  more  than  a  field  with  a  few  shrubs  in  it.  The  present  oc-  cupants  came  in  1961;  theold  man  moved  in  when  his  wife  died.  All  this  is  talked  about  over  cups  of  tea,  and  how  mahonias  do  well,  and  winter  heathers.  But  there  are  no  heathers,  of  any  sea-  son,that  Clione  and  James  can  see,  and  herbs  have  failed  in  brick-edged  beds  in  the  cobbled  yard.  &quot;Martins  nest  every  year  but  they  aren't  a  nuisance,&quot;  Mr.  Witheridge  assures  them.  &quot;I'd  stay  here  forever,  actually.&quot;  He  nods,  then  shrugs  away  his  wish.  &quot;But  we  need  to  be  nearer  to  things.  Not  that  we're  entirely  cut  off.  No,  I  don't  want  to  go  at  all.&quot;  &quot;We're  sorry  to  take  it  from  you.&quot;  James  smiles,  again  apologetic.  &quot;Oh,  good  heavens,  no!  It's  just  that  it's  a  happy  place  and  we  want  you  to  be  happy  here,  too.  There's  a  bus  that  goes  by  regularly  at  the  bottom  of  the  lane.  I  explained  that  to  your  friend  when  he  said  he  didn't  drive.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  daresay  he'll  visit  us.&quot;  Clione  laughs,  but  doubts-and  notices  James  doubting  it,  too-that  Michingthorpe  often  will,  not  being  the  country  kind.  The  long  acquaintanceship  seems  already  over,  the  geography  of  their  lives  no  longer  able  to  contain  it.  &quot;Your  friend  was  interested  in  the  sheds.&quot;  \xc2\xab\xc2\xa5/ZOURE  intending  to  live  with  us?&quot;  Clione  stares  into  the  puffy  fea-  tures,  but  the  slate  eyes  are  blank,  as  ev-  erything  else  is.  His  voice  is  no  more  lifeless  than  it  usually  is  when  he  ex-     THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  8,  1999  plains  that  he  happened  to  be  in  the  neighborhood  of  theoasthouse,  a  li-  brary  he  had  to  look  over  at  Nettleton  Court.  &quot;Not  fifteen  minutes  away.  Nothing  of  interest.  A  wasted  journey,  I  said  to  myself,  and  that  I  hate.&quot;  &quot;You  mentioned  converting  the  sheds  to  that  old  man.&quot;  &quot;I  have  a  minikin's  life  style.  I  like  a  certain  smallness,  I  like  things  tidy  around  me.  I  throw  things  out,  I  do  not  keep  possessions  by  me.  That's  always  been  my  way-I've  been  quite  noted  for  it.&quot;  &quot;We've  no  intention  of  converting  the  sheds.&quot;  Michingthorpe  does  not  respond.  He  takes  his  spectacles  off  and  looks  at  them,  holding  them  far  away.  He  puts  them  on  again  and  says,  &quot;What  d'you  think  I  got  for  the  Madox  Ford?  Remember  the  Madox  Ford?&quot;  &quot;We've  never  talked  about  your  living  with  us.&quot;  It  is  impossible  to  know  if  this  is  ac-  knowledged,  if  there  is  a  slight  gesture  of  the  head.  Michingthorpe  Ales  were  brewed  at  Maresfield,  Clione  learns,  but  that  was  long  ago.  In  the  seventeen-  thirties,  then  for  a  generation  ortwo.  &quot;I  never  took  much  interest.  Just  chance  that  I  stumbled  across  the  family  name.  In  Locke's  'Provincial  Byeways,'  I  believe  it  was.&quot;  &quot;We'll  move  down  therein  May.&quot;  Quite  badly  foxed,  the  Ford,  the  frontispiece  gone.  &quot;Well,  you  saw  yourself.  Six  hundred,  would  you  have  thought  it?&quot;  ATER,  Clione  passes  all  that  on.  The  faint  unease  she  experienced  when  she  heard  that  Michingthorpe  had  been  to  Sussex  is  greater  now.  For  more  than  twenty  years  he  has  had  the  same  free-  dom  of  a  household,  been  given  the  hospitality  offered  to  a  cat  or  birds  that  come  toa  windowsill.  Has  he  seen  all  this  as  something  else?  It  seems  to  Clione  that  this  must  be  so,  that  what  appears  to  the  children  and  her  husband  to  have  come  out  of  the  blue  is  a  projec-  tion  of  what  was  there  already.  Mich-  ingthorpe's  presumption  is  the  pre-  sumption  of  an  innocent,  which  his  unawareness  makes  him.  She  should  say  that,  but  cannot.  She  listens  to  family  laughter  and  when  the  children  are  no  longer  there  says  she  is  to  blame,  that  she  should  have  " b"anticipated  that  something  likethis  would  one  day  happen.  &quot;Of  course  you're  not  to  blame.&quot;  &quot;It  was  my  fault  that  he  presumed  so.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  how.&quot;  She  tells  because  at  last  she  has  to,  be-  cause  what  didn't  matter  matters  now.  A  misunderstanding,  she  calls  it.  She  knew  and  she  just  left  it  there,  permitting  it.  &quot;Oh,  but  surely  this  can't  be  so?  Surely  not?&quot;  &quot;I've  always  thought  of  it  as  harmless.&quot;  &quot;You  couldn't  have  imagined  it?&quot;  She  does  not  let  a  stab  of  anger  show.  James  is  smiling  at  her,  standing  by  the  windows  of  the  sitting  room  they  soon  will  leave  forever.  His  smile  is  kind.  He  is  not  mocking  or  being  a  tease.  &quot;No,  I  haven't  imagined  it.&quot;  &quot;Poor  bloody  fool!&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  She  does  not  confess  that  after  her  recent  conversation  with  Michingthorpe  she  felt  sorry  she'd  been  cold,  that  be-  wilderingly  she  dreamed  these  last  few  nights  of  his  shadow  thrown  on  snow  that  had  fallen  in  the  oasthouse  garden,  his  shadow  on  sunlit  grass,  an  imprecise  reflection  in  a  pool  on  the  cobbles  where  the  sheds  were.  His  fleshy  palms  were  warmed  by  a  coffee  mug  while  his  talk  went  on,  while  she  beat  up  a  souffl\xc3\xa9,  while  again  he  recalled  the  dressmaker  who  had  made  him  rock  buns.  &quot;It's  horrid,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Dropping  someone.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  James  does  know:  she  is  aware  of  that,  drawn  into  his  thoughts,  astheir  closeness  so  often  allows.  Dropping  someone  is  not  in  James's  nature,  yet  why  should  they  pander  to  the  awkward  selfishness  ofan  oddity?  There  are  the  memories  that  go  back  to  &quot;A  Whiter  Shade  of  Pale,&quot;  the  settlements  and  compromises  of  the  marriage  they  were  determined  to  make  work.  Her  friends  have  not  always  been  her  husband's  kind,  nor  his  hers,  and  there  were  other  differ-  ences  that,  with  time,  didn't  matter,  ei-  ther.  The  intimacy  they  have  come  to  know  is  like  a  growth  of  roots,  spreading  and  entangling,  making  them  almost  one.  Why  should  there  be  embarrass-  ment  now?  &quot;For  it  would  be  like  that,&quot;  she  hears  James  say.  &quot;'Day  afterday.&quot;  &quot;He  has  a  nothing  life.&quot;  She  pleads  before  she  knows  she's  doing  so,  and  realizes  then  that  she  has  done  so  before.  In  the  car,  when  they  drove  away  after  the  revelation  in  the  oasthouse,  she  suggested  that  the  old  man  might  have  misheard,  that  it  was  probably  gratuitous  information  on  his  part  about  the  buses  passing  near,  not  the  answer  toa  question.  You  can  pity  a  child,  Clione  finds  herself  thinking,  no  matter  what  a  child  is  like.  &quot;It's  a  different  kind  of  love,&quot;  she  mur-  murs,  hesitating  over  every  word.  &quot;It's  fairly  preposterous,  whatever  it  is.&quot;  &quot;For  all  the  time  we've  known  him  we  have  looked  after  him.  You  as  much  as  I.&quot;  &quot;My  dear,  we  can't  play  fantasies  with  a  fully  grown  man.&quot;  She  sees  again  the  shadow  from  her  dream,  distorted  when  it  crosses  the  cob-  bles  from  the  sheds,  cast  bulkily  on  the  kitchen  floor,  taking  sunlight  from  the  table  spread  with  her  cooking  things.  Being  a  shadow  suits  him,  as  being  a  joke  once  did.  &quot;It  was  just  a  thought  he  had,&quot;  she  says.  ON  a  cool  May  morning,  piece  by  piece,  the  furniture  is  carried  across  the  pavement  to  the  removal  van.  The  men  are  given  cups  of  tea,  the  doors  of  the  van  are  closed.  Clione  passes  from  one  room  to  the  next  through  the  emptiness  of  the  house  where  her  three  children  were  born,  the  house  in  which  they  grew  up  and  then  left,  leaving  her,  too.  Who  will  lis-  ten  to  him  now?  Who'll  watch  him  talking  to  the  air?  Who'll  not  want  to  know  what  a  splendid  find  he  has  come  across  at  another  auction?  Who'll  not  want  to  know  that  oysters  don't  agree  with  him?  He  is  there  when  they  drive  off  but  does  not  wave,  as  if  already  he  does  not  know  them,  as  if  he  never  did.  &quot;Oh,  he'll  latch  on  to  someone  else,&quot;  the  children  have  said,  each  of  them  putting  it  in  that  same  way.  &quot;He  won't  mind  your  going  much.&quot;  She  cannot  guess  how  he'll  mind,  what  form  his  minding  will  take,  where  or  how  the  pain  will  be.  But  the  pain  is  there,  for  she  can  feel  it.  Their  unpresentable  friend  won't  come,  not  even  once.  Because  he  does  not  drive,  because  there  is  no  point  in  it,  because  the  pain  would  be  too  much.  She  does  not  know  why  he  will  not  come,  only  that  he  won't.  She  does  not  know  why  the  pity  she  feels  is  so  intensely  there,  only  that  it  is  and  that  his  empty  love  is  not  absurd. "