BY  KENKESEY  EMME  see,  lemme  see.  .  ..  What  was  I  that  dude's  name?  You'd  think  I'd  remember  after  that  good-  bye  bash  he  threw.  Then  again,  when  you're  in  my  line  of  work,  you  get  to  at-  tend  so  many  goodbye  bashes.  .  ..  It  wasn't  Sodom  or  Gomorrah.  It  wasn't  the  fall  of  Rome.  Oh,  wait  a  minute,  I  know!  We're  talking  Jesus  Christ  time  here,  A.D.J.C.  time,  and  I  quote:  &quot;When  the  thousand  years  are  expired,  the  chosen  shall  be  lifted  up  to  Heaven  and  Satan  shall  be  loosed  from  his  prison  and  the  #27  shall  catch  up  to  the  shit.&quot;  Ho  ho  ha  ha  ...  Revelations  20:7,  or  something  like  that.  Great  stuff.  O.K.,  I  think  I  got  it  straight.  Here  we  go  ...  THE  date  was  nine  hundred  and  ninety-nine  years  eleven  months  and  thirty  days,  give  or  take  a  few  leap  years,  in  merry  ole  Yermany-Der  Fod-  derland,  where  else?  That's  cannon  fod-  derland,  if  you  get  what  I  mean.  Otto  was  the  dude's  name.  Prince  Otto,  old  King  Otto  the  Great's  only  son-a  pious  little  prick  if  you've  ever  seen  one,  raised  by  six  nuns,  tutored  by  seven  priests,  and  tortured  by  endless  boils.  The  ideal  combo  of  spiritual  nutri-  ents  for  the  more  sinister  seeds  of  Scrip-  ture,  wouldn't  you  agree?  Even  as  a  tod-  dler,  little  Otto  Zug  on  Revelations.  He  loved  being  read  to  sleep  by  those  seven  priests,  a  different  reader  for  every  night  of  the  week.  By  the  time  his  voice  was  changing,  he  could  quote  the  whole  Book  of  Revelations  by  heart.  The  priests  were  just  so  proud.  And  by  the  time  he  was  sprouting  whiskers  on  his  boils  he  was  having  holy  fits  and  seeing  apocalyptic  angels!  Visions!  Beasts,  heavenly  chariots,  the  whole  nine  yards.  The  priests  judged  their  princely  pupil  ready  to  take  the  tiller  and  steer  the  ship  of  state  through  the  century's  remaining  years.  So  they  sent  forth  word  to  Otto  the  Great  that  young  Otto's  visions  clearly  showed  that  he  was  ready  to  assume  the  realm's  helm  and  become  the  kingdom's  Holy  See.  Well,  o/d  Otto  didn't  see  it  quite  that  way.  He  sent  forth  guards  to  bring  the  sanctimonious  little  snotnose  back  in  chains.  Steer  the  ship  of  state  indeed!  He'd  show  him  where  he  could  stick  that  tiller!  In  the  meantime,  the  King  decided  he'd  pop  over  to  the  chapel  and  pray  for  his  own  guidance,  you  know  what  I  mean?  Just  to  cover  all  bets.  And  while  he  was  kneeling  a  dark  swarm  of  aveng-  ing  angels-seven  strong,  'tis  said-came  flapping  out  of  the  shadows  and  hacked  the  imperial  impediment  into  seven  pieces,  which  they  bore  away  in  seven  different  directions.  None  of  the  seven  gory  pieces  ever  saw  one  another  again.  Thus  the  son  of  Otto  the  Great  be-  came  known  as  Otto  the  Bloody-the  scourge  of  blasphemers  and  fornicators  and  sorcerers  and  so  forth.  He  scourged  so  many  out  of  his  court  that  pretty  soon  there  were  only  ahalf  dozen  forni-  cators  and  sorcerers  left.  Soon  it  began  to  look  to  him  as  if  his  earthly  chores  were  drawing  to  an  end,  what  with  the  end  of  the  world  slated  for  the  New  Year  and  all.  ...  As  I  recall  it,  he  summoned  his  royal  retinue  into  the  imperial  beer  hall  and  made  the  announcement  &quot;Doomsday  night  approacheth.  We  oughta  go  up  on  top  of  a  mountain  and  celebrate  the  end  of  the  world  as  though  we  were  causing  it!&quot;  &quot;Damn  straight,&quot;  his  retinue  agreed.  &quot;Doomsday.&quot;  So  on  New  Year's  Eve  999,  he  took  his  generals,  and  his  cronies,  and  his  seven  priests,  and  six  nuns,  and  his  pregnant  wife,  and  a  pig,  and  a  great  big  mastiff,  some  horses  and  horse  carts  and  wine  wagons  and  stuff,  and  they  headed  up  to  the  top  of  one  of  the  nearby  moun-  tains.  Not  much  more  than  a  hill,  actu-  ally.  But  it  was  getting  dark.  The  wife's  sensitivities  hurt  from  all  that  bounc-  ing  behind  a  flatulent  horse.  The  priests  needed  a  place  to  pray,  and  the  nuns  needed  a  place  to  pee.  This  hill  would  do.  They  killed  the  pig  and  spitted  him  over  a  big  fire.  They  hacked  the  swine  and  swilled  the  wine.  They  partied.  They  danced.  They  swore  allegiances  to  angels  that  they  couldn't  see.  And  then  morning  dawned,  and  the  world  had  not  ended  after  all.  No.  Otto  was  a  tad  peeved.  His  wife  was  complaining  about  the  cramps.  The  priests  were  pray-  ing  their  asses  off.  And  yet  the  world  hadn't  come  to  an  end.  So  Otto  poached  a  priest,  a  real  fat  one,  because  the  other  priests  reasoned  that  this  was  probably  the  problem,  this  one  fat  priest.  God  could  not  abide  a  glutton.  They  rested  during  the  day,  built  the  fire  back  up,  barbecued  the  mastiff.  Come  dark,  they  set  about  it  again.  Pa-  rading  around  the  top  of  the  hill.  Screaming  like  banshees.  Weep-  ing  and  heaping  ashes  on  their  heads  and  get-  ting  dirt  in  their  eyes.  Wet  to  the  knees,  they  passedout  again.  And  in  the  morning  ...  in  the  morning  .  ..  the  earth  was  still  turning.  The  sun  was  still  shin-  y  ing.  And  King  Otto  the  Bloody  was  one  pissed-  off  liege.  ERLIN/SUPERST  SO.  Year  one  thou-  sand,  three  poached  &lt;  priests  into  January  and  g  a  couple  plump  nuns  2  for  good  measure.  Bloody  King  Otto  2  on  top  of  Mt.  Millennium  with  preg-  Onant  Queen  Otto.  The  babe's  birth  and  I  the  end  of  the  world  both  long  over-  %  z,  due.  Thunder  rolhng  Wind  howling.  z  Wlfe  whining,  &quot;Oh,  husband  mine,  z  were  it  just  me  not  one  word  of  discon-  y  tent  would  escape  my  lips.  But  what  O  about  the  baby?&quot;  6  Otto  was  pretty  discontented  him-  A.K.G.,  Bl  o  Maes  king  over  except  a  run-down  =  horse  and  cart  and  a  bellyaching  wife.  5  3  He  tossed  his  wife  in  the  cart  and  Al  climbed  on  the  horse  and  headed  for  home.  [REDACTED]-country.  Cart  creaking.  Horse  farting.  Wife  bitching  at  every  ditch  and  bump,  &quot;What  about  the  baby?  What  about  the  baby?&quot;  Come  dawn  of  that  fourth  day  in  January,  she  was  pissing  and  moaning  before  the  sun  was  up.  Otto  was  weigh  ing  the  various  alternatives  to  poaching,     and  he  let  his  mind  drift  a  little  bit.  The  cart  bounced  over  a  boulder,  catapult-  ing  wife  down  the  hill.  Seemed  likea  good  idea  to  the  horse.  He  bucked  free  of  his  burden  andheaded  off  himself,  the  busted  cart  bouncing  behind.  By  the  time  Otto  reached  his  young  wife,  she  was  breathing  her  last.  &quot;Saints  be  praised&quot;  was  Otto's  reac-  tion.  &quot;At  peace  at  last.&quot;  Then,  in  her  muddy  petticoats,  Otto  saw  something  move.  It  was  a  baby.  A  baby  untimely  ripped,  bespattered  with  the  blood  of  the  borning-a  boy  baby!  59  A  prince!  And  for  the  first  time  in  his  egocentric  existence  Otto  felt  a  teensy-  weensy  tug  on  heartstrings  he  never  even  knew  were  strung.  He  tore  the  petticoats  off  his  dearly  departed  to  clean  up  his  royal  heir,  and  discovered-  kneeling  there  on  a  grassy  slope,  the  winter  birds  singing,  the  winter  sun  shining-that  those  weren't  splatters  of  a  troubled  birth  at  all.  They  were  boils!  Boils!  Boils!  ‘  &quot;Hey  up  there,  Al-  |  mighty!&quot;  he  shouted  at  the  sky.  &quot;What  is  this  crap?  I  go  upon  the  mountain  like  I'm  sup-  posed  to,  only  to  find  You  are  playing  with  a  crooked  deck?  I  follow  all  the  rules,  and  you  deal  me  a  kid  with  boils  all  over  him?  What  does  it  all  mean?  Will  these  torments  never  cease?&quot;  And  the  sky  grinned  back  down  on  him  and  seemed  to  say,  &quot;Tune  in  at  the  end  of  Act  III  and  have  these  rancid  _-  riddles  unravelled.&quot;  So  off  in  the  chilly  -  Teutonic  toolies  we  got  -  young  King  Otto,  his  _-  boily  baby  in  one  hand  and  his  dearly  departed  in  the  other.  Babe  begin-  ning  to  how!  hungrily  as  Mama  cooled  rapidly.  Cart  busted,  horse  run  off.  ..  not  to  mention  the  End  of  the  World  being  a  no-show.  Was  ever  a  monarch  so  sorely  vexed?  He  gnashed  his  teeth  and  tore  his  hair.  Didn't  help.  He  raised  his  gaze  to  the  heavens  for  guidance.  Nothing  but  nothingness.  He  lowered  his  eyes  to  the  earth.  What  but  weeds  and  boulders  begored  by  the  babe's  un-  timely  beginning?  Then,  from  the  Sty-  gian  depths  of  despair,  a  glimmer...  nay,  a  beacon!  A  sight  both  beautiful  and  terrible.  Uplifted  to  the  frosty  sun:  the  twin  bounties  of  his  lifeless  bride,  leaking  like  alabaster  fountains!  That's  when  our  hard-hearted  hero  started  going,  as  they  say,  a  little  bit  around  the  bend.  But  who's  to  say,  who's  to  say?  If  you  y  z  60  can  get  blood  out  of  a  boulder,  why  not  milk  out  of  a  corpse?  And  after  that,  out  of  a  nanny  goat,  and  after  that,  out  of  an  ass,  and  finally-my  personal  favorite-a  grazing  milk  cow  with  a  twisted  horn  and  a  couple  of  offspring  of  her  own.  Otto  reasoned  she  was  set  up  to  feed  four  as  easy  as  two.  There  were  also  henhouses  and  cab-  bage  patches  and  tuber  cellars  in  the  surrounding  countryside.  Hayricks  to  sleep  in  and  horse  blankets  to  bor-  row.  In  broad  daylight  as  well  asat  night.  The  rustic  rubes  never  seemed  to  notice.  Father  and  son  scavenged  and  scrab-  bled  and  survived.  Country  living  agreed  with  the  pair.  The  kid's  complexion  commenced  to  clear,  while  Dad's  bile  subsided.  They  plundered  the  country-  side  with  what  seemed  to  be  complete  impunity.  It  never  occurred  to  Otto  that  the  rubes  were  witness  to  every  clumsy  theft.  He  and  his  offspring  had  become  famous.  They  were  the  excited  gossip  of  every  hut  and  hovel  in  the  hinter-  lands.  Here  was  the  royal  family,  Crazy  Otto  the  Bloody,  king  of  all  he  sur-  veyed,  with  his  Pimply  Prince  under  his  arm  like  a  prize  piglet-filching  curds  and  black  breads  off  back  steps  like  common  crimpers.  In  fact,  it  never  occurred  to  poor  ad-  dled  Otto  that  he  was  king  of  any-  thing  ..  .  until  he  crested  a  rise  one  wan-  dering  morn  and  saw  in  the  distance  a  grand  castle.  &quot;Home,&quot;  he  told  the  kid.  It  was  May,  and  the  edelweiss  was  blooming.  It  had  taken  father  and  son  four  months  to  cover  the  nine  miles  from  Mt.  Millennium  back  to  the  castle  gate.  Came  to  something  like  two  miles  a  month,  give  or  takea  few  leagues  or  furlongs  or  whatever  they  used  to  mea-  sure  distances  back  then.  Otto  was  puzzled  when  they  passed  through  the  gate  unchallenged.  Once  inside,  he  saw  why.  He'd  slept  in  cleaner  hog  pens!  Dismal  desolation  was  every-  where  he  looked.  Rat-ridden  alleyways.  Run-down  shops.  Citizens  cowering  under  the  baleful  watch  of  helmeted  guards.  Ragged  old  men  and  street  ur-  chins  squabbling  over  garbage  rights.  I  mean,  Bummersville.  How  could  things  around  the  old  home  town  have  changed  so  much  in  a  few  months?  It  never  occurred  to  him  that  things  around  town  had  not  changed  at  all  during  his  sojourn  through  the  sticks.  He  had.  He  marched  up  the  steps,  past  the  gawking  guards,  and  straight  into  the  royal  court,  rightin  the  middle  of  the  afternoonscourging  session.  A  goodly  assortment  of  prostrate  peasants  were  being  flogged  &quot;to  purge  their  filthy  souls&quot;-the  purgers  let  it  be  known-  &quot;in  preparation  for  the  apocalyptic  ex-  travaganza  that  is  still  impending!&quot;  TL  ift-  off  had  been  put  off,  you  see,  to  allow  time  for  this  holy  housecleaning.  A  scene  right  out  of  Hieronymus  Bosch:  floggers  flogging  ...  organs  wailing...  holy  men  damning  everyone  in  sight.  &quot;Enough  already&quot;  Otto  bellers.  &quot;As  your  king,  I  command  you  to  cease!  this!  bullshit!  forevermore!&quot;  Whoa!  The  presiding  priests  piss  their  royal  robes  at  the  sight  of  Otto  and  his  heir  apparent,  but  they  try  to  bluff  it  out.  What  proof  has  he  that  he's  their  king?  He  certainly  doesn't  look  like  their  king-all  ragged  and  hairy  like  a  crazy  man-and,  besides,  their  king  had  been  carried  up  to  glory  from  the  mountaintop.  Many  had  witnessed  the  miracle.  Who  could  testify  other-  wise?  they  demand  in  rising  clamor.  &quot;Who?&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  baby?&quot;  Otto  holds  up  the  protesting  child.  &quot;What  about  the  baby?&quot;  he  asks  again.  &quot;What  about  the  baby?&quot;  And  the  clamor  is  cut  off  in  mid-rise  by  the  twisted  logic  of  this  crazy  man's  question-spzick,  clean,  as  though  by  a  scythe.  Because  right  there  it  lies-the  eter-  nal  kernel  of  this  long-winded  enter-  prise.  &quot;What  about  the  baby?&quot;  Otto  de-  mands  again.  &quot;What  about  the  baby?&quot;  And  the  baby  cries.  And  the  pros-  trate  peasants  from  the  floor  do  rise.  &quot;What  about  the  baby!&quot;  they  take  up  the  cry.  &quot;What  about  the  baby!  What  about  the  baby!&quot;  And  the  priests  and  inquisitors  and  guards  realize,  &quot;The  gig  is  up,  the  rubes  have  turned-it's  every  holy  man  for  himself!&quot;  And  the  moral  of  this  twisted  story  (more  twisted,  perhaps,  than  true)?  There  is  no  end  to  glory.  ...  For  the  new  belongs  to  the  new.  It's  a  simple  trick.  Take  it  or  leave  it,  deny  or  believe  it,  sing  hey  nonny-  nonny  and  spin  till  you're  sick.  Me?  Ar-  mageddon  outta  here.  Hee  hee  ho  .  .. 