 ENRY  BECH,  the  aging  Ameri-  H  can  author,  found  that  women  he  had  slept  with  decades  ago  were  showing  up  at  his  public  lectures.  He  could  sense  them  in  the  auditorium  even  when  it  was  dark.  Clarissa  Tomp-  kins,  for  instance,  slipped  in  late  at  a  reading  in  New  Jersey,  in  an  old  suburban  movie  theatre  converted  to  cultural  uses,  after  the  houselights  were  dimmed  and  he  had  already  launched  himself  into  one  of  the  prose  poems  from  his  miscellany  &quot;When  the  Saints&quot;  (1958),  evoking  an  East  Village  junk  shop.  Lifting  his  head  to  project  the  phrase  &quot;a  patina  of  obscure  former  usage  annealing  a  contemporary  application  of  very  present  dust,&quot;  savoring  the  dentals  in  that  clinching  duet  of  words,  he  saw  her  silhouette  against  the  dull  glow  cast  by  the  old-fashionedly  or-  nate  signto  the  movie  house's  ladies'  room.  Clarissa  glided  out  of  the  island  of  amber  light  into  the  black  rows  at  the  back,  but  there  had  been  no  mistaking  the  upswept  taffy-colored  hairdo  that  en-  larged  her  already  sizable  head,  a  head  poignantly  balanced  on  her  petite,  breast-  less  frame.  After  lovernaking  in  the  Tomp-  kinses'  splendid  Fifth  [REDACTED]  apart-  ment,  with  its  view  across  to  the  Dakota,  they  would  have  a  naked  picnic  on  the  deep-napped  Oriental  at  the  center  of  the  living  room,  a  little  further  burst  of  taffy  color  innocently  exposed  as  she  sat  cross-legged,  devouring  her  half  of  a  turkey  sandwich  the  cook  had  made  be-  fore  leaving  for  the  afternoon.  Amidst  the  opulence  of  her  apartment  Clarissa  was  thrifty-one  sandwich  cut  in  two,  one  teabag  serving  two  cups.  Her  face  be-  neath  all  that  bouffant  hair  looked  tiny,  and  as  she  scrunched  it  into  her  half-  sandwich  all  but  disappeared-the  little  straight  nose,  the  myopic  green  eyes  usu-  ally  straining  to  see  but  now  vaguely  swimming  in  her  orgasm's  aftermath.  At  each  bite,  her  plump  upper  lip  would  leave  a  pink  blur  at  the  rim  of  soft  white  bread.  Her  lipstick  was  messy  and  indelible;  he  usually  needed  a  full  cleanup,  not  with  just  a  washrag  but  with  paper  towels  dabbed  in  vodka,  before  he  dared  the  ele-  vator,  the  doorman,  the  street.  What  had  led  her  to  show  up  in  New  Jersey,  atthis  community  college  wedged  in  the  suburban  wastes  north  of  [REDACTED]?  How  had  she  known  of  his  reading?  He  lost  his  place,  wondering,  and  a  silence  stretched  above  the  faces  listening  in  the  shadows  before  he  found  his  spot  on  the  page  and  went  on,  &quot;One  warily  in-  spects,  bending  forward,  a  mostly  wooden  apple-corer,  a  piece  of  carved  intricacy  suggesting  atorturer's  device  out  of  Borges  or  Kafka,  that  had  somehow,  through  a  chain  of  canny  and,  one  hopes,  profitable  transactions  made  its  way  from  an  underheated  [REDACTED]  attic  to  this  stuffy,  jumbled  trading  post  in  nether  Gotham.&quot;  He  disliked  the  sentence,  more  wordy  than  he  had  ever  noticed  before.  Mr.  Tompkins  had  been  a  patron-  the  chief  patron,  indeed-of  an  avant-  garde  publication  with  the  austere  name  of  Displeasure,  to  which  Bech  had  been  a  faithful  contributor.  Clarissa  had  seen  in  him,  perhaps,  a  noble  savage-a  woolly-haired,  thick-bodied  bohemian  beyond  all  bourgeois  scruples.  The  fifties  had  been  a  boom  time  for  noble  savages,  more  or  less  modelled  on  Henry  Miller,  before  the  sixties  brought  in  such  a  slew  of  them  that  they  became  a  political  mob.  But  Bech  had  a  tender  regard,  if  not  for  wealth  as  a  concept,  for  the  arti-  facts  it  could  purchase-for  Tompkins's  lush  carpets,  for  his  gilt-brushed  Orien-  tal  prints,  for  his  kitchen  gleaming  with  Swiss  fixtures  and  green  marble  coun-  tertops,  for  his  king-size  bed  and  its  sheets  of  Sea  Island  cotton.  The  couple  was  childless;  these  possessions  were  their  helpless  children.  Each  tryst  in  the  luxurious  duplex-the  maid  and  the  cook  tactfully  dismissed  by  the  mistress  but  who  knows  with  what  dark  suspi-  cions-had  made  Bech  morally  queasy.  Tompkins  patronizes  art,  the  literary  artist  pays  him  back  by  screwing  his  wife.  Clarissa,  to  do  her  credit,  felt  that  the  situation  was  somehow  sensitive  for  her  lover.  She  pressed  her  physical  claims  as  if  upon  an  invalid,  with  the  solicitous  yet  unretreating  voice  of  a  hospital  visi-  tor,  coaxing  him  into  vigor;  she  led  him  as  if  he  had  been  a  teen-ager  into  cer-  tain  byways  of  gratification  which  left  her  lipstick  stains  passed  back  and  forth  between  their  bodies  like  the  ricochet  marks  ina  squash  court.  The  route  to  her  orgasms  could  be  tortuous.  A  yoga  adept,  she  liked  being  bent  backward  over  a  silk-cushioned  stool  so  that  her  head  rested  on  the  floor  a  foot  below  her  hips,  her  green  eyes  groping  for  his  face  and  the  rug's  swirling  pattern  showing  through  her  teased,  expanded  hair.  She  did  not  mind,  she  led  him  to  slowly  un-  derstand,  certain  Hindu  variations  on  the  standard  positions,  and  with  word-  less  hints  drew  his  masculine  force  out  of  its  shell  of  shyness.  His  very  reserve  and  hesitation  enabled  her,  it  seemed,  to  break  some  seal  on  her  own  inhibitions.  Still,  she  could  not  holdhim.  His  sense  of  himself  as  a  pollutant  of  Arnold  Tompkins's  posh  apartment,  its  delicate  silks  and  innocent  velvets,  led  him  to  write  Clarissaa  letter  of  withdrawal,  pleading,  not  falsely,  a  desire  to  leave  her  ensconced  among  treasures  whose  beauty  and  worth,  though  negligently  dismiss-  able  by  her,  were  not  so  by  him.  In  short,  he  did  not  want  by  any  consequence  of  scandal  to  become  responsible  for  a  rich  woman's  upkeep,  ardent  though  she  had  shown  herself  to  be.  As  he  read  at  the  tippy,  ill-lit  lectern,  :  plowing  on  with  these  forty-year-old  prose  poems  that  suddenly  seemed  fatally  mannered  as  well  as  badly  dated,  and  then  launching  himself  into  the  well-  worn  anthology  piece,  the  truck-stop  brawl  in  his  road  novel,  Travel  Light&quot;  (1955),  he  scanned  the  audience  between  sentences,  looking  for  a  stray  glimmer  from  the  high  airy  crown  of  her  hair.  She  {}{1963)/PRIVATE  COLLECTION  GIRL  SMOKING  HARD  DIEBENKORN  OURTESY  LAWRENCE  RUBIN  «  GREENBERG  YAN  DOREN  FINE  ART  9  &amp;  O     76  had  moved  in  the  darkness  from  her  ini-  tial  perch  in  the  back  row,  near  the  glow-  ing  amber  sign  that  was,  he  squintingly  perceived,  a  kind  of  magic  lantern,  a  metal  box  cut,  in  one  of  the  elegancies  common  in  the  old  movie  palaces,  to  dis-  play  against  its  light  bulb  the  silhouette  of  an  eighteenth-century  pompadoured  woman  at  her  toilet,  above  the  cutout  script  spelling  &quot;Ladies.&quot;  And  when  the  houselights  came  up,  for  the  apple-corer  torture  of  the  question-and-answer  period,  Clarissa  was  quite  gone,  sunk  forever  in  the  bland  smiling  sea  of  middle-  aged-more  than  middle-aged,  elderly-female  book  lovers  and  author  groupies.  How  mischievous  of  her  to  show  up  so  magically  and  then  vanish!  Had  it  been  a  repri-  mand  for  his  disappearance  from  her  life,  to  which  he  had  been  granted  such  unstinting  entry?  They  had  not  met  again,  even  at  an  officeparty,  for  Tompkins  had  shortly  thereafter  withdrawn  his  patronage  from  Displeasure,  and  the  magazine  had  limped  along  awhile  and  then  collapsed.  Ar  the  West  Side  Y-so  much  cozier  a  venue  than  the  more  heavily  pub-  licized  East  Side  forum  at  Ninety-second  Street-Bech  sought  for  a  friendly  face  in  the  audience  upon  which  to  pin  his  read-  ing.  He  was  trying,  for  far  from  the  first  time,  to  pump  life  into  that  scene  from  his  novel  &quot;'Think  Big&quot;  (1979)  wherein  Olive,  having  discovered  herself  at  last  to  be  a  lesbian,  confesses  her  previous  amours  while  lying  in  the  arms  of  Tad  Greenbaum's  discarded  mistress,  Thelma,  in  the  orange  sunset  light  that  enters  the  room  horizontally,  like  bars  of  music,  from  beyond  the  Palisades.  This  passage,  with  its  shuffling  back  and  forth  between  two  love-drugged  female  voices,  was  a  precarious  one  to  animate,  and  needed  the  encouragement  of  a  willing  smile  from  some  female  auditor.  Tonight  the  smile,  so  radiant-luscious,  even,  in  its  wide  white  face-did  not  have  to  be  sought  out;  rather,  it  seemed  to  have  sought  him  out.  As  he  read  aloud,  mur-  muring  into  the  rustling,  sometimes  woofing,  microphone,  he  was  nagged  by  the  notion  that  he  had  known  this  en-  couraging  face  before.  The  smile,  out-  lined  in  a  lipstick  so  dark  it  appeared  black  in  the  auditorium  half-light,  had  a  sweet,  forgiving  tuck  on  one  side  that  im-  plied  former  acquaintance,  an  insight  into     him  that  bypassed  his  theatrical  attempt  to  breathe  life  into  the  drowsy  confi-  dences  of  two  imaginary  women.  The  only  thing  real  in  what  he  was  reading  was  the  room  itself,  an  exact  transcrip-  tion  of  the  Riverside  Drive  apartment  he  had  lived  in  for  years,  before  his  ill-fated  marriage  to  Bea  Latchett,  Norma  Latch-  ett's  relatively  sweet-tempered  sister.  Wait,  he  thought,  even  as  he  kept  his  voice  working,  there  was  a  cranny,  a  niche  in  the  era  of  his  life  dominated  by  the  Latchett  sisters,  where  this  disembodied  black-lipped  smile  fit.  Burgundy  mouth,  long-lashed  purple-irised  eyes,  straight  black  hair  falling  to  glossy  wide  shoulders,  a  black  triangle  centered  between  wide  white  hips.  A  woman  encoun-  tered  at  infrequent  intervals,  a  woman  a  touch  too  fleshy  and  dogmatic  for  him,  but  whose  amazing  waxen  pallor,  lighting  up  rooms  otherwise  dim,  drew  him  back,  now  and  again,  as  he  glancingly,  skittishly  moved  through  downtown  lit  erary  circles  in  those  slovenly  sixties.  Gretchen.  Gretchen  Folz,  the  would-be  poet.  Her  pathetic  cubbyhole  on  Bleecker  Street,  its  narrow  bed  snug  against  a  parsley  green  wall,  access  to  its  other  side  limited  by  tilting  stacks  of  New  Direc-  tions  and  Grove  Press  paperbacks.  The  bed  had  an  Amish  bedspread  whose  pat-  tern  of  triangular  patches  reminded  him  of  Stars  of  David,  and  an  iron  head  whose  vertical  pipes  dug  grooves  into  his  back  when  Gretchen,  in  the  woman-couchant  position,  straddled  him  and  teased  his  mouth  with  her  livid  nipples.  The  thrill  of  recovered  memory  made  his  voice  boom  inappropriately  as  he  read  Olive's  tender  summing  up  to  Thelma:  &quot;It  was  all,  like,  you  know,  Snow  White's  ~  forest  on  the  path  to  you.&quot;  Decades  ago,  he  remembered,  he  had  vacillated  be-  tween  &quot;path&quot;  and  &quot;way&quot;  and  had  rejected  &quot;way&quot;  as  a  word  with  too  many  meanings  and  too  evocative  of  Proust,  but  now  &quot;way&quot;  seemed  the  more  natural  expres-  sion,  though  less  incidentally  evocative  of  entangling  sexual  grapples,  with  leering  male  faces  on  the  tree  trunks.  Gretchen's  poems  had  wispily  trailed  down  the  page,  making  elliptical  jumps  that  he  had  taken  to  be  faithful  toa  woman's  erratic  inner  connections.  Her  orgasms,  come  to  think  of  it,  did  not  come  easily  either.  She  had  been  flustered  at  first  by  Bech's  rather  burly  determina-  tion  to  work  out  the  problem  with  her.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  25,  1999  &quot;Slam,  bam,  thank  you  ma'am  is  really  often  the  most  satisfying,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;What  a  cop-out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Think  what  an  exploitative  heel  that  makes  me.&quot;  &quot;But  what.  .  .?  I  mean  how  ...?&quot;  How  lovely,  how  adorably  alight  her  wide  satiny  face  had  been  in  its  girlish  confusion,  its  prefeminist  reluctance  to  think  of  her  genitals  in  detail.  He  had  piqued  her  interest,  and  they  clambered  together  over  the  pillared  copies  of  Pound  and  Burroughs,  Céline  and  Genet,  Anais  Nin  and  Djuna  Barnes,  which  spilled  like  a  row  of  dominoes,  reaching  the  center  of  the  tiny  room.  Why  had  his  contacts  with  Gretchen  been  so  scattered,  as  willing  and,  gradu-  ally,  responsive  as  she  had  been?  Her  writing,  perhaps,  had  offended  him:  his  erotic  drive  generally  steered  clear  of  lit-  erary  women,  who  might  compete  or  try  to  touch  the  aloof,  unspeakable  heart  of  A  his  raison  d'étre.  Also,  she  was  large,  not  lithe  and  little  as  he  liked  women;  he  dis-  trusted  the  luxury  of  her  spilling  flesh,  the  creamy  slowness  of  her  laboring,  amid  the  swelling  smells  of  brine  and  es-  trus,  toward  sexual  release.  Ifshe  had  lost  a  little  weight,  if  there  had  been  a  little  less  flesh  to  move,  she  might  have  found  the  way-the  path-easier.  His  ministra-  tions  felt  awkwardly  close  to  those  of  a  doctor  rather  than  those  of  a  lover,  with  a  therapeutic  focus  that  diluted  his  own  excitement.  Also,  descending  into  the  cramped  quarters  and  futile  literary  am-  bitions  of  Bleecker  Street  struck  him-  already  faintly  famous,  with  all  four  of  his  titles,  up  to  1963,  having  achieved  men-  tion  in  the  Times  Book  Reviews  Christ-  mas  list  of  Notable  Books-as  slum-  ming.  And  she  was  Jewish,  which  wasn't  what  he  needed  at  the  time.  He  felt  Jew-  ish  enough  for  two.  He  had  something  she  powerfully  needed,  his  sexual  pa-  tience,  and  this  shameless  need  disgusted,  it  could  have  been,  his  fastidious  side.  She  was  never  indignant  for  long  when  he  coasted  back  into  her  orbit.  Tonight,  too,  after  he  had  doggedly,  absent-mindedly  completed  his  reading,  and  taken  halfhearted  swings  at  a  few  of  the  puffball  questions  the  audience  tossed  up,  Gretchen  met  him  with  no  shadow  of  resentment  for  his  erratic  wooing  and  unexplained  fading  away  but  instead  with  a  matured  form  of  her  old  wistful  glee,  her  girlish  hope  of  even-  tual  fulfillment.  Her  kiss  of  greeting  claimed  him  with  a  new  authority;  her  bohemian  diffidence  was  gone.  &quot;Henry,  HIS  CEUVRE  T'd  like  you  to  meet  my  husband,&quot;  she  said.  He  was  a  substantial  red-faced  fellow,  sixty  or  so,  dignified  but  not  unfriendly,  wearing  a  pin-striped  suit  that  was  more  used  to  board  meetings  than  prose  read-  ings.  &quot;Good  stuff,&quot;  he  said  gamely,  guess-  ing  why  he  had  been  brought  here.  &quot;Henry,  how  you  still  do  go  on,&quot;  Gretchen  said.  &quot;A  lesbian  is  the  last  thing  you  want  to  be.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Maybe  I'm  still  evolv-  ing,&quot;  he  said,  regretting  that  her  peck  to  one  side  of  his  mouth  had  been  so  brief,  so  dry.  She  looked  fulfilled.  Her  wide-  hipped  weight,  next  to  the  bulk  of  her  spouse,  was  no  problem,  and  she  had  had  her  hair  cut  raggedly  short  and  tinged  with  a  metallic  cinnabar  red,  giving  her  a  rather  ravishing  futuristic  look.  &quot;What  ever  happened  to  your  poems?&quot;  he  asked.  He  never  knew  quite  what  to  say  to  these  women  who  showed  up.  &quot;Privately  printed,&quot;  she  answered,  the  sharp  dark  corners  of  her  mouth  tucking  into  her  creamy  cheeks  with  the  only  hint  of  revenge  her  amiable  nature  would  allow  itself.  &quot;Beautifully  printed.  Bob  loves  them.&quot;  &quot;Bob,&quot;  Bech  said,  prolonging  the  vowel  as  if  to  taste  her  once  again,  &quot;is  obviously  a  discerning  critic.  He  likes  both  our  stuff.  Stuffs.&quot;  OU  don't  expect  much  to  happen  in  [REDACTED],  once  you've  seen  the  Hoosier  Dome  and  the  Soldiers'  and  Sailors'  Monument.  Their  pairing  re-  minded  Bech  of  the  closer  coupling,  in  [REDACTED],  of  the  Royal  Albert  Hall-  round  and  capacious  and  rosy-and  the  phallic  spike  of  the  Albert  Memorial,  across  Kensington  Road.  Perhaps  the  world  canbe  deconstructed  into  these  two  basic  shapes,  everywhere  seeking  one  another.  Just  before  his  reading  at  the  Marion  County  Public  Library,  while  he  was  standing  idle  and  momentarily  un-  chaperoned  on  one  side  of  the  steps  to  the  stage,  a  crisp,  short,  pleasant-looking  woman  in  a  magenta  tweed  suit  came  up  to  him  starry-eyed.  He  had  encountered  starry  eyes  be-  fore,  in  the  visages  of  women  who  had  read  too  much  into  one  of  his  novels,  casting  themselves  as  heroine  at  the  expense  of  his  sketchy  script,  but  this  woman's  approach  was  not  that  of  a  fan.  &quot;Henry  Bech,&quot;  she  said,  in  the  firm  flat  accent  of  the  great  556e6974656420537461746573n  inland,  &quot;I  am  Alice  Oglethorpe.  You  may  not  re-  member,  but  we  once  travelled  from  New  York  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  same  train.&quot;  Her  handshake  was  like  her  voice,  firm,  and  neither  cold  nor  warm,  but  he  detected  a  slight  tremble.  Then,  her  identity  dawning,  his  heart  surged  for-  ward  in  his  chest  and  he,  the  professional  spielmeister,  felt  his  mouth  open  and  nothing  come  out.  Her  blue  eyes,  with  their  uncanny  silvery  backing,  clung  to  his  attentively  while  his  brain  groped.  He  would  not  have  recognized  her  at  all.  She  seemed  too  young  to  be  Alice.  Though  his  blood  had  bounded  toward  her,  he  was  ashamed  to  have  become,  since  they  had  last  been  together,  an  old  man.  &quot;Oh  my  God,&quot;  he  brought  out  at  last.  &quot;You.  Of  course  I  remember.  The  Twentieth  Century  Limited.&quot;  &quot;Just  as  far  as  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  corrected  him.  &quot;After  that,  it  was  the  Santa  Fe  Super  Chief.&quot;  His  left  hand,  holding  the  book  that  he  was  to  read  from  tonight,  clumsily  tried  to  caress  the  hand,  the  precious  piece  of  her,  that  he  was  holding  in  his  right.  &quot;How  are  you?  Where  are  you?  What  happened  next?&quot;  Bech's  confusion  gratified  her,  and  calmed  her.  She  withdrew  her  hand,  with  its  tremble.  Her  eyes  did  not  leave  his,  but  her  mouth,  lifted  apprehensively,  settled  into  a  smile.  She  had  been  recognized.  &quot;I'm  here,&quot;  she  answered.  &quot;Or  rather,  in  Bloomington.  I'm  well.  I  got  over  it.&quot;  BIKEH  cum  She  had  oddly  little  aged,  just  broad-  ened  a  bit.  Her  hair  was  the  same  light-  brunette  shade,  too  nondescript  to  be  a  tint,  and  her  wool  suit  was  scarcely  saved  by  its  bold  magenta  from  verging  on  dowdy.  Her  disguise  as  an  ordinary,  law-  abiding  woman  was  intact.  Her  husband,  he  remembered,  had  been  some  sort  of  financial  analyst,  a  middle-level  money  man.  She  had  been  travelling  to  L.A.  to  join  him  at  the  end  of  a  weeklong  conference  sponsored  by  the  Southern  [REDACTED]  defense  indus-  try.  Oh,  she  could  have  gone  with  him  and  stayed  in  the  hotel,  but  what  would  she  have  done  all  day-take  bus  tours  to  the  homes  of  the  stars?  Her  silvery  eyes  and  dry  intonation  told  Bech  that  she  considered  herself,  at  some  level,  more  of  a  star  than  they.  At  least  she  was  a  proximate  presence,  talking  only  to  him.  She  had  always  wanted  to  travel  across  the  country,  she  told  him,  and  hated  to  fly,  though  she  could  do  it,  with  a  couple  of  stiff  drinks  inside  her.  Bech  was  going  to  the  far  coast  on  what  he  knew  would  be  a  futile  exploration  of  the  cinematic  possibilities  of  his  first,  somewhat  sensa-  tional  novel,  &quot;Travel  Light.&quot;  He,  too,  would  rather  ride  the  rails  than  entrust  his  body  to  the  bumpy,  propeller-driven  flights  of  the  late  fifties,  before  the  tri-  umph  of  thebig  jets.  The  dashing  trans-  continental  trains  were  on  the  way  out,      WIRED  NO  SWIMMINC:  UNNiNG  NQ  $MOKING  NO  BALL  PLAYING  NO  ALCOKOL  NQ  FIRES  N  o  P  O  W  E  R  T  O  O  L  S     wit  litt  o&gt;,  h  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  25,  1999  and  by  taking  one  Alice  and  he  revealed  a  kindred  romantic  streak.  All  this  came  out  in  their  first  conversation,  they  hav-  ing  been  seated  together,  two  singles,  in  the  crowded  dining  car.  The  shiver  of  their  cutlery  on  the  vi-  brating  tablecloth.  The  reassuring,  fairy,  tale  solidity  of  the  heavy-bottomed  cups  and  coffee  pots,  bearing  New  York  Cen-  tral's  logo.  The  theatrically  deferential  black  waiters  in  a  world  where  happy  black  servitude  was  also  on  the  way  out.  Bech  sensed  as  soon  as  she  was  ushered  to  his  tingling  table  that  she  would  sleep  with  him.  Therewas  that  pale  light  in  her  eyes,  a  slightly  loud  shimmer  in  her  teal-blue  gabardine  suit,  an  eager  elec-  tricity  in  the  way  she  moved  and,  with  a  little  wine  in  her,  talked.  Women  who  were  talkative,  sexual  lore  reported  and  his  limited  experience  tended  to  verify,  &quot;put  out&quot;  in  other  respects.  He  and  she  were  as  alone  on  that  speeding  train,  clicking  north  beside  the  [REDACTED],  as  on  a  desert  island.  His  chaperone,  the  head  Librarian  of  [REDACTED],  reclaimed  him;  it  was  time  to  go  onstage  and  earn  his  fee.  Alice  said,  warmly  but  formally,  that  it  had  been  good  tosee  him  after  all  these  years.  «You  look  wonderful-wonderful!&quot;  was  all  he  could  bring  out.  She  turned  away,  he  turned  away.  How  stupid  he  had  been!  No  blushing  schoolboy  could  have  been  more  tongue-tied.  That  clumsy  scraping  caress  he  had  tried  to  deliver  with  a  book  in  his  hand.  His  failure  to  ask  any  searching  ques-  tions.  His  body  felt  like  a  struck  gong,  swollen  by  its  rever-  berations.  To  think  that  she  was  near,  that  she  had  come  to  find  him!  As  he  dizzily  plowed  through  his  read-  ing,  the  questions  he  should  have  asked  her  flocked  to  his  mind.  Where  didshe  live,  ex-  actly?  Was  she  happy?  Would  she  run  away  with  him  now,  now  that  her  wifely  and  motherly  dim  HIS  CEUVRE  duties  were  done?  Therehad  been  small  children,  he  remembered,  whom  she  had  left  with  her  husband's  parents  in  the  [REDACTED].  But  she  was  not  a  New  Yorker,  her  journey  had  begun  upstate,  and  that  made  her  even  more  of  a  gift  from  be-  yond.  Beyond  all  reason.  Beyond  all  ex-  pectations.  Under  the  lectern  light  his  hands  looked  strange  and  withered,  but  for  all  that  rather  beautiful.  Articulated,  hairy  masses.  He  had  been  beautiful.  She  did  not  sleep  with  him  the  first  night.  She  stood  up  after  coffee  and  firmly  said  good  night.  In  those  days  the  Pullman  sleepers  with  green-curtained  upper  and  lower  berths  had  become  an-  tiques;  the  sleeper  cars  on  the  Twentieth  Century  Limited  were  divided  into  roomettes,  each  measuring  seven  feet  by  three.  Bech  scarcely  slept,  knowing  that  she  was  but  a  few  steps  away,  in  an-  other  roomette.  Perhaps  like  him  she  was  writhing  between  the  too-tight  sheets  and  flipping  the  pillow  over  to  its  cool  side  in  the  vain  hope  that  blessed  obliv-  ion  would  rise  from  it,  mixed  with  the  tireless  thud  of  the  rail  joints.  Toward  dawn  there  was  a  prolonged  bright  ruckus  that  must  have  been  Buffalo.  THEY  found  each  other  at  breakfast  in  the  dining  car  as  it  swayed  and  chimed  through  [REDACTED].  &quot;How  did  you  sleep?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Terribly.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  we  were  lonely.&quot;  &quot;I  never  sleep  well  on  trains,  thanks,&quot;  she  said.  Her  sleepless  pallor  and  the  un-  forgiving  morning  sunlight  as  it  bounced  upfrom  the  glittering  stubble  of  the  cornfields  brought  out  a  slight  roughness,  a  constellation  of  tiny  nicks  as  if  from  an  adolescent  storm  of  acne,  below  her  cheekbones.  The  harsh  slant  sunlight  be-  trayed  her  and  then  was  slapped  down  by  intervening  poles,  brick  towers,  railside  warehouses.  Makeup  didn't  quite  cover  this  touching  flaw.  He  had  forgotten  it,  he  had  forgotten  to  look  for  it  in  the  few  amazing  moments  when  she  had  appeared  again  before  him.  Shehad  once  asked  him  if  he  would  ever  forget  her.  He  turned  the  slightly  abrasive  page  under  the  lectern  light.  He  had  chosen-  God  knows  why,  perhaps  out  of  some  sense  he  had  of  [REDACTED]  as  a  pious  place-that  passage  from  &quot;Brother  Pig&quot;  (1957)  where  the  Trappist  monks,  loosely  based  onwhat  he  had  read  of  Thomas  Merton,  silently  plot,  with  hand  signals  and  written  slips,  to  smuggle  in  a  Jewish  reporter  from  a  New  York  tabloid-a  &quot;scandal  sheet&quot;  one  would  call  it  now-to  expose  the  abbot's  tyranny  and  pederasty.  How  did  he,  Henry  Bech,  get  caught  in  this  embarrassing  tangle  of  far-fetched,  decadent  motifs  when  the  most  marvel-  lous  lay  of  his  life  was  out  there  among  the  shadowy,  offended  heads  of  devout  Quaylites  and  Butler  University  evangels?  Alice  and  he  had  breakfasted  together,  and  sat  dozily  with  books  in  the  club  car.  Other  travellers  spoke  to  them,  and  they  were  invei-  gled  into  a  game  of  bridge,  of  which  he  scarcely  knew  the  rules,  squinting  at  his  cards  beside  the  sun-slapped  windows,  trying  to  decipher  her  bids,  all  the  time  feeling  her  with  him  in  a  dream  worldof  insomniac  yearning  and  wordless  anticipation  of  the  night.  When,  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon,  they  pulled  into  [REDACTED],  for  a  half-hour  shuffle  of  cars  and  locomotives,  Bech  dashed  out  of  the  great  barrel-vaulted  station  to  buy  a  three-pack  of  Trojans  at  a  Rexall's,  on  Jackson  Boulevard.  His  heart  thrummed  as  if  to  break  his  ribs.  The  sly,  blond-mustached  clerk  tried  to  talk  him  into  an  entire  tin  of  fifty  instead  of  the  tinfoiled  three-&quot;You'll  use  'em,&quot;  he  promised,  on  no  more  basis  than  Bech's  flushed,  panting  face-and  with  spiteful  slowness,  the  economy  size  declined,  counted  out  Bech's  change.  Suppose  the  train  pulled  out  without  him?  Now,  in  [REDACTED],  he  was  com-  pelled  to  make  his  way  through  pages  he  had  felt  obliged,  decades  ago,  to  write,  in  order  togive  his  scabrous,  irreligious  jour-  nalist  a  family  background  and  a  profes-  sional  history  satiric  of  postwar  New  York  literary  circles.  Had  ever  a  selection  been  more  ill-chosen,  more  maddeningly  prolonged?  A  few  nervous  titters  in  the  audience  tried  to  rise  to  the  cultural  occa-  sion.  Did  he  hear  Alice's  laugh?  Shehad  laughed  telling  him  once,  &quot;You're  safe.&quot;  At  dinner,  as  the  train  hurtled  into  the  darkness  of  flat  farmland  where  a  few  distant  houses  pricked  the  night,  she  rose  unsteadily  from  her  coffee,  smoothing  a  few  crumbs  from  her  lap,  and  said,  &quot;I  must  lie  down.  I  feel  sick.&quot;  &quot;Oh  my  God,  why?&quot;  His  new  friend  smiled.  &quot;'The  constant  motion.  The  long  day.  Not  you.  I  like  you.&quot;  She  hesitated,  fighting  a  bitfor  bal-  ance  as  the  Super  Chief  slammed  over  a  patch  of  rocky  roadbed.  She  bent  toward     T9  him  over  the  chattering  silverware  and  said,  softly  but  matter-of-factly,  &quot;'Give  me  an  hour.  I  must  rest  a  little.  Roomette  16.  Knock  twice.&quot;  &quot;'Klein  found  himself  fascinated  by  the  Trappists,'&quot;  he  heard  himself  read-  ing.  &quot;'Like  Hasidim,  they  seemed  to  possess  an  archaic  secret  of  joy,  coded  in  their  grotesque  hairdos.  The  monks'  tonsures  framed  a  pink  circle  of  scalp,  and  their  faces  had  a  childish  sheen  pol-  ished  to  a  bright  daze  by  the  cruel  hours  of  their  devo-  tions  and  their  dawn  rising  to  the  duties  of  farmers.'&quot;  Too  many  dentals,  Bech  thought.  And  then  his  cap-  tive  tongue  was  launched  into  a  long  and  dated  de-  scription  of  Klein's  brother,  alabor  organizer  when  such  men  still  wielded  a  power  that  could  bring  a  country  to  a  halt.  After  an  hour  of  staring  at  the  flat,  loam-black  land-were  they  still  in  IIli-  hadhad  the  porter  make  up  his  roomette,  No.  5,  and  in  pajamas  and  pin-striped  cotton  robe  ventured  out  into  the  carpeted  aisle,  alone  with  its  retreat,  ing  perspective.  He  feared  she  would  be  asleep,  but  her  answer  to  his  two  knocks  was  quick.  Her  hair  pulled  back,  her  face  clean  of  makeup-his  impression  was  of  a  nun  or  a  prisoner-she  was  kneeling  in  a  nightgown  on  the  bed;  there  was  no-  where  else  in  the  tiny  cell  to  be.  So  that  twenty-two  roomettes  could  be  fitted  into  the  length  of  a  car,  they  were  dove-  tailed,  with  two  steps'  difference  in  height  between  each  adjacent  pair;  the  bed  of  the  slightly  lower  chamber  slid  in  day-  time  under  the  floor  of  the  raised  room  beside  it,  and  the  feet  of  its  occupants  ex-  tended  under  an  overhang  which  some-  what  inhibited  their  movements.  But  Alice  was  small  and  flexible  and  he  not  tall,  and  at  times  they  seemed  to  stretch  their  allotted  space  to  the  size  of  a  ball-  room.  Between  times  they  raised  the  shade,  gingerly,  as  if  watchdogs  of  Mid-  western  puritanism  might  be  posed  in  the  black  air  streaming  outside.  The  vast  sleeping  landscape  would  be  shattered  by  a  rapid  garble  of  silhouetted  architecture,  or  by  lowered  crossing  gates  where  head-  lights  patiently  burned,  or  a  local  station  platform  like  a  suspensefully  empty  stage  set,  the  small  towns  with  their  neon  signs  and  straight  strings  of  street  lamps  wheel-  ing  and  falling  away  to  reveal  the  main  visual  drama,  the  abysmal  darkness  of    farmland.  Low  streaks  of  cloud  hung  in  a  faint  phosphorescence.  They  must  be  in  Missourinow,  if  not  [REDACTED].  Her  pliant  nakedness,  unified  to  his  senses  of  touch  and  smell,  flickered  in  curved  short  circuits  when  the  train  roared  past  lights  defending  a  water  tower  or  a  set  of  grain  silos.  When  the  train  hissed  and  slid  to  a  stop,  at  a  plat-  form  holding  only  a  bare  baggage  wagon  and  a  loudly  reuniting  family,  he  raised  the  stiff  green  shade  a  few  inches  so  he  could  ponder  her  supine  beauty  as  a  con-  tinuous,  calm,  exultant  entity,  with  rises  and  swales  and  dulcet  shadowed  corners.  The  curious  silvery  light  of  her  eyes  now  lived  all  along  her  skin.  In  the  small  space  carved  from  the  surrounding,  upholding  clatter  and  mutter  of  the  rushing  train,  she  was  a  giantess  who  met  him,  his  sen-  sation  was,  wherever  he  thrusted,  with  an  embracing  cavity.  She  did  it  all,  and  had  to  keep  suppressing  moans  that  would  disturb  the  unknown  fellow-passengers  presumably  sleeping  an  arm's  length  away.  &quot;Will  you  forget  me?&quot;  she  at  one  point  whispered.  There  were  fits  of  doz-  ing  amid  a  constant  rejoining.  The  sly  druggist  had  been  right;  Bech  had  un-  derbought.  The  couple's  closet  of  satis-  fied  desire  became  nicely  rank  with  a  smell  that  was  neither  him  nor  her.  &quot;We're  all  mixed  up  together,&quot;  she  whis-  pered,  after  she  had  swallowed  and  caught  her  breath.  The  heartland  they  endlessly  poured  through  seemed  no  vaster  than  territories  laid  open  within  them.  &quot;You're  perfect,&quot;  she  sighed  toward  morning,  sadly,  like  a  distant  train  whis-  tle,  in  his  ear.  She  was  not  quite  perfect,  he  had  observed  by  the  hard  morning  light  in  the  dining  car.  In  the  dark  he  touched  her  cheeks,  that  had  looked  abraded,  with  tiny  nicks.  A  miracle.  They  were  perfectly  smooth.  &quot;So  are  you,&quot;  he  told  her.  It  was  the  truth.  A  he  read  aloud,  he  kept  remem-  bering  that  it  was  his  unhappy  sister-in-law's  boss,  a  self-important  thug  in  a  double-breasted  camel-hair  topcoat,  who  had  reluctantly  filled  in  the  young  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  25,  1999  author  with  details  of  how  labor  unions  operated.  At  the  time,  Bech  thought  he  could,  in  the  long  future  before  him,  assemble  all  [REDACTED]  as  a  mosaic  of  such  research.  Now  these  details,  as  they  passed  through  the  mi-  crophone  into  the  air,  seemed  worked-up  and  tinny,  and  his  antihero  Klein's  cynical  take  on  the  Trappists-misfits,  defec-  tives,  cop-outs-adolescently  cal-  lous.  With  relief  he  at  last  ended  the  reading,  but  there  were  still  the  questions  from  the  audi-  ence  to  face.  Do  you  usea  word  processor  and,  if  so,  what  kind?  What  authors  influenced  you  in  your  youth?  How  did  you  like  the  movie  of  &quot;Travel  Light,&quot;  star-  ring  Sal  Mineo?  What-his  least  favorite  question-is  your  per-  sonal  favorite  of  your  books?  The  auditorium  lights  had  been  turned  up,  so  he  could  see  the  waving  hands,  the  eager,  respect-  ful,  aggressive  faces.  He  scanned  them  for  Alice,  and  failed  to  spot  her,  but  the  crowd  was  large,  with  restless,  ill-lit  edges  over  by  the  walls,  and  there  was  nothing  about  her,  not  even  the  magenta  suit,  to  keep  her  from  blending  in.  Dawn  had  brought  them  into  gauntly  irrigated  farmland  yielding,  mile  by  mile,to  desert.  He  had  scuttled  out  of  her  roomette  like  a  go-  pher,  and  snatched  a  few  hours  of  sleep  in  his  own.  The  Pullman  car  had  an  ecology  they  were  fitting  into.  The  other  passengers  accepted  them,  by  now,  as  a  couple.  They  were  invited  again  to  play  bridge-Bech  timidly  failed  to  bid  a  small  slam  though  Alice  had  given  clear  signals  that  her  hand  was  loaded-and  a  beefy  pair  of  middle-aged  Texans  sat  down  at  their  table  for  dinner,  not  ap-  pearing  to  notice  that  the  other  couple  were  too  groggy  to  make  small  talk  or  conversationally  draw  upon  a  common  past.  At  some  ten-minute  stop,  where  the  Spanish  adobe  architecture  squatted  as  if  stunned  under  a  sky  full  of  va-  porous  thunderheads,  Bech  ran  off  the  train  tofind  a  drugstore  and  replenish  his  supply  of  Trojans.  He  saw  nothing  near  the  station  but  buckskin  and  pot-  tery  souvenirs  of  the  West,  and  heard  the  conductor  call  all  aboard.  The  train  had  become  a  conscience  to  him,  a  home  he  hurried  back  to  with  panic.  HIS  CEUVRE  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  Alice  said  that  night.  &quot;I  wouldn't  mind  having  a  baby  of  yours.&quot;  &quot;But-&quot;  he  began,  thinking  of  her  unsuspecting  husband.  &quot;It's  my  body,&quot;  she  said,  a  woman  ahead  of  her  time.  He  wondered  if  inside  every  conventional  housewife  there  was  such  a  sexual  radical.  She  took  mercy  on  him:  &quot;Don't  worry-I'm  about  to  have  my  period.  You're  safe.&quot;  She  laughed  then,  a  brief  tough  snicker,  as  if  her  voice  had  been  lowered  by  a  momen-  tary  empathy  with  a  man's  point  of  view.  After  sleepwalking  through  the  day,  they  gained  a  second  wind  as  night  fell  on  the  duned,  saguaro-dotted  desert.  &quot;Your  place,  or  mine?&quot;  he  had  asked.  &quot;Yours,&quot;  she  said.  Having  a  choice-a  little  play  in  their  situation-amused  her.  &quot;I  hate  that  nasty  little  overhang;  my  feet  get  claustrophobic.&quot;  His  slightly  higher  roomette  had  no  such  feature.  They  could  spread  out,  relatively.  Hav-  ing  mounted  the  two  steps,  they  felt  on  top  of  the  world.  Their  three  days,  he  often  reflected  afterward,  had  composed  a  courtship,  a  honeymoon,  and  a  mar-  riage.  You  fuck  at  first  to  stake  a  claim,  and  afterward  to  keep  the  claim  staked.  They  were  less  ravenous,  this  second  night  together,  and  tender  in  their  geni-  tals,  and  slept  for  several  stretches  ofan  hour  or  more.  They  could  hear,  in  the  sudden  gulp  and  changed  pitch,  as  of  a  huge  musical  instrument,  the  train  en-  tering  tunnels,  and  feel  its  wheels  care-  fully  fumble  over  the  switch  points  at  some  crucial  junction.  They  could  feel  the  train  climb,  and  sinuously  labor  through  some  pass,  on  a  canyon's  curved  edge,  beneath  the  unseen  stars  hang-  ingcold  and  close  above  the  desert  mountains.  As  he  sensed  the  night  tilt  and  slowly  swerve  toward  its  end,  Bech  in  his  sexual  hysteria  and  exhaustion  began  to  cry,  smearing  his  tears  with  his  face,  like  a  deer  marking  a  tree,  across  her  belly,  her  breasts,  a  kind  of  spiritual  semen,  leaving  its  own  slimy  glitter.  As  she  submitted  to  this,  she  pat-  ted  and  tugged  his  thick,  resilient  hair.  The  line  of  people  with  books  to  sign  hadno  end  in  sight.  &quot;Would  you  just  make  this  one  'To  Frank'?  He's  my  father-in-law,  he  loves  your  work,  he  says  you've  really  spoken  to  his  genera-  tion.&quot;  &quot;Could  you  personalize  this  one  To  Lyndi?  That's  L,  'Y,  'N,'D,  T  Perfect.  Thanks  so  much.  It's  wonderful     to  have  you  here  in  the  Hoosier  State.&quot;  By  daylight  the  Mojave  Desert  yielded,  an  oasis  at  a  time,  to  the  Cali-  fornia  paradise.  Pastel  houses  and  palm  trees  multiplied  to  make  a  horizontal  city,  oddly  colorless  under  a  sky  as  blue  and  unflecked  as  a  movie-set  back-  drop.  The  train  crept  to  a  final  bump  in  Mission-style  Union  Station,  and  there  fell  upon  all  its  length  the  flurry  and  sudden  hustle  of  a  little  world  coming  apart,  with  some  porters  to  tip  and  oth-  ers  to  beckon  on  the  platform,  with  farewells  to  be  said  or  avoided.  Alice,  at  his  side  all  morning  in  the  club  car,  sleeping  with  her  head  on  his  shoulder,  had  vanished.  He  went  onto  the  plat-  form,  into  the  unreally  benign  air.  She  had  put  the  distance  of  two  or  three  cars  between  them  when  he  spotted  her,  leading  a  porter  and  his  trolley,  down  beside  the  locomotive,  where  the  tri-  umphant  engineer  traded  guffaws  with  a  uniformed  station  official.  She  merged  with  a  man  in  a  brown  outfit-slacks  one  shade,jacket  another;  how  gauche,  Bech  had  thought-and  melted  into  the  crowd,  his  claim  reclaimed.  Bech  had  the  impression  that  Oglethorpe  was  bald.  What  happened  next?  Over  the  years  he  forgot  why  whenever  he  saw  a  woman  with  a  touch  of  rash  or  rough-  ness  on  her  cheeks  he  was  stirred  and  saddened.  He  had  imagined  he  would  some-  how  see  her  again.  The  universe,  having  witnessed  so  sublime  a  coupling,  would  arrange  it.  And  so  it  had,  in  its  unsatis-  factory  fashion.  The  last  fan  in  line  went  away  with  his  authen-  tic  Henry  Bech  signature,  that  tiny  piece  of  him  chipped  from  his  drastically  dwindled  life,  and  there  was  no  one  left  in  the  audi-  torium  lobby  but  the  bookstore  staff,  packing  all  his  unsold  books  into  boxes,  and  the  tired  but  cheery  local  matron,  perhaps  herself  a  secret  [REDACTED],  who  had  chaired  the  committee  that  had  got  him  here.  The  librarian  of  Indi-  anapolis  had  gone  home.  The  sight  of  his  books,  the  seven  thin,  passé  titles,  being  briskly  stashed  in  boxes  disgusted  Bech.  No  matter  how  many  he  sold  and  signed,  there  were  always  tons  left,  wasted  paper.  These  women  who  showed  up  at  his  readings  did  it,  it  seemed  clear,  to  mock  his  books-clever,  twisted,  false  books,  empty  of  almost  all  that  mattered,  these  women  he  had  slept  with  were  saying.  We,  we  are  your  masterpieces.  