 THE  BUNCKHGRASS  EDGE  OF  THE  WORLD  P  I  &quot;THE  country  appeared  as  empty  ground,  big  sagebrush,  rabbit  brush,  intricate  sky,  flocks  of  small  birds  like  packs  of  cards  thrown  up  in  the  air,  and  a  faint  track  drifting  toward  the  red-walled  horizon.  Graves  were  unmarked,  fallen  house  timbers  and  corrals  burned  up  in  old  campfires.  Nothing  much  but  weather  and  dis-  tance,  the  distance  punctuated  once  in  a  while  by  ranch  gates,  and  to  the  north  the  endless  murmur  and  sun-flash  of  semis  rolling  along  the  interstate.  In  this  vague  region  the  Touheys  ranched-old  Red,  ninety-six  years  young,  his  son  Aladdin,  Aladdin's  wife,  Wauneta,  their  boy,  Tyler,  object  of  Aladdin's  hopes,  the  daughters,  Shan  and  (the  family  embarrassment)  Ottaline.  LD  RED,  born  in  Lusk  in  1902,  grew  up  in  an  orphan  home,  a  cross-  grained  boy-wrists  knobby  and  prominent,  red  hair  parted  in  the  mid-  dle-and  walked  off  when  he  was  fourteen  to  work  in  a  tie-hack  camp.  The  year  the  First  World  War  ended  he  was  in  Medicine  Bow  timber.  He  quit,  headed  away  from  the  drought  burning  the  West,  drilled  wells,  prod-  ded  cattle  in  railroad  stockyards,  pasted  up  handbills,  cobbled  a  life  as  though  hammering  two-bys.  In  1930  he  was  in  New  York,  shovelling  the  Waldorf  [REDACTED]  off  the  side  of  a  barge  into  the  Atlantic  [REDACTED].  One  salty  morning,  homesick  for  hard,  dry  landscape,  he  turned  west  again.  He  found  a  wife  along  the  way  and  soon  enough  had  a  few  dirty  kids  to  feed.  In  Depression  [REDACTED]  he  bombed  roosting  crows  and  sold  them  to  restaurants.  When  crows  went  scarce,  they  moved  to  [REDACTED],  settleda  hundred  or  two  miles  from  where  he'd  started.  They  leased  a  ranch  in  the  Red  Wall  country-log  house,  straggle  of  corrals  that  from  a  distance  resembled  dropped  FICTION  A  girl  without  boys.     BY  ANNIE  PROULX  sticks.  The  wind  isolated  them  from  the  world.  To  step  into  that  reeling  tor-  rent  of  air  was  to  be  forced  back.  The  ranch  was  adrift  on  the  high  plain.  There  was  the  idea  of  running  a  few  sheep,  his  wife's  idea.  In  five  years  they  built  the  sheep  up  into  a  prime  band.  The  Second  World  War  held  wool  prices  steady.  They  bought  the  ranch  for  back  taxes.  In  August  of  1946  a  green-shaded  lamp  from  Sears  Roebuck  arrived  the  same  day  the  wife  bore  their  last  child.  She  named  the  kid  Aladdin.  Peace  and  thermoplastic  resin  yarns  ruined  the  sheep  market  and  they  went  to  cattle.  The  wife,  as  though  disgusted  with  this  bovine  veer,  complained  of  nausea  as  they  unloaded  the  first  ship-  ment  of  scrubby  calves.  She  stayed  sick  three  or  four  years,  finally  quit.  Red  was  a  hard  driver  and  of  the  six  children  only  Aladdin  remained  on  the  dusty  ranch,the  giant  of  the  litter,  stubborn  and  abusive,  bound  to  have  everything  on  the  platter  whether  bare  bones  or  beefsteak.  Aladdin  came  backfrom  [REDACTED],  where  he  flew  C-123  Bs,  spraying  de-  foliants.  Now  he  showed  a  hard  dis-  position,  a  taste  for  pressing  on  to  the  point  of  exhaustion,  then  going  dreamy  and  stuporous  for  days.  He  married  Wauneta  Hipsag  on  a  scorch-  ing  May  morning  in  [REDACTED],  the  bride's  home  state.  A  tornado  funnel  hung  from  a  green  cloud  miles  away.  Wauneta's  abundant  hair  was  rolled  in  an  old-fashioned  French  knot.  The  wedding  guests  were  her  parents  and  eleven  brothers,  who  threw  handfuls  of  wheat,  no  rice  available.  During  the  ceremony,  Wauneta's  father  smoked  cigarette  after  cigarette.  That  evening  at  the  Touhey  ranch  a  few  kernels  of  wheat  shot  from  Aladdin's  pants  cuffs  when  he  somersaulted  off  the  porch,  exuberant  and  playful  before  his  new  wife.  The  grains  fell  to  the  groundand  in  the  course  of  time  sprouted,  grew,  headed  out,  and  reseeded.  The  wheat  seized  more  ground  each  year  until  it  covered  a  quarter-acre,  the  waving  grain  ardently  protected  by  Wauneta.  She  said  it  was  her  wedding  wheat  and  if  ever  cut  the  world  would  end.  HEN  he  was  twenty-six  Alad-  din  wrenched  the  say  of  how  things  should  go  from  old  Red.  Alad-  din  had  been  in  the  mud  since  blue  morning  digging  out  a  spring.  The  old  man  rode  up  on  his  one-eyed  mare.  The  son  slung  a  shovelful  of  wet  dirt.  &quot;You  ain't  got  it  dug  out  yet?&quot;  the  old  man  asked.  &quot;Not  too  swift,  are  you?  Not  too  smart.  Shovel  ain't  even  sharp,  I  bet.  How  you  got  a  woman  a  marry  you  I  don't  know.  You  must  a  got  a  shotgun  on  her.  Must  a  hypatized  her.  Not  that  she's  much,  but  probably  beats  doin  it  with  livestock,  that  right?&quot;  The  mud-daubed  son  climbed  out  of  the  hole,  picked  up  clods,  pelted  his  father  until  he  galloped  off,  pursued  him  to  the  house,  and  continued  the  attack  with  stones  and  sticks  of  firewood  snatched  up  from  the  woodpile,  hurled  the  side-cutters  he  always  carried  in  a  back  pocket,  the  pencil  behind  his  ear,  the  round  can  filled  not  with  tobacco  butwith  the  dark  green  of  homegrown.  Red,  knot-headed  and  bleeding,  raised  one  arm  in  surrender,  backed  onto  the  porch.  He  was  seventy-one  then  and  called  out  his  age  as  a  defense.  &quot;I  made  this  ranch  and  I  made  you.&quot;  His  spotted  hand  went  to  his  crotch.  Aladdin  gathered  can,  pencil,  and  side-  cutters,  and  put  the  old  man's  horse  away.  He  went  back  to  the  spring,  head  down,  picked  up  the  shovel,  and  dug  until  his  hands  went  nerveless.  Wauneta  moved  old  Red's  belong-  ings  out  of  the  big  upstairs  bedroom  and  into  a  ground-floor  room  off  the  kitchen,  once  a  pantry  and  still  smell-  ing  of  raisins  and  stale  flour.  A  strip  of  adhesive  tape  held  the  cracked  win-  dow  glass  together.  " b"&quot;You'll  be  closer  to  the  bathroom,&quot;  she  said  in  a  voice  as  smooth  as  gas  through  a  funnel.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  JAUNETA  taught  her  two  girls  to  carry  pie  on  a  white  plate  to  their  grandfather,  kiss  him  good  night,  while  Tyler  played  with-plastic  cows  and  stayed  up  late.  One  forenoon  she  came  in  from  hanging  clothes  and  found  four-year-old  Ottaline  gripped  astrad-  dle  over  old  Red's  lap  and  squirming  to  get  down.  She  ripped  the  child  from  him,  said,  &quot;You  keep  your  dirty  old  prong  away  from  my  girls  or  I'll  pour  boilin  water  on  it.&quot;  &quot;What?  I  wasn't-&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not-never  did-&quot;  &quot;I  know  old  men,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Potty!&quot;  screamed  Ot-  taline,  too  late.  Now  she  warned  the  daughters  from  him,  spoke  of  him  in  a  dark  tone,  fine  with  her  to  let  him  sit  alone  in  the  straight-backed  chair,  let  him  limp  unaided  from  porch  to  kitchen  to  fusty  room.  The  sooner  he  knocked  on  the  pearly  gates  the  better,  she  told  Aladdin,  who  groaned  and  rolled  to  his  side,  fretted  by  the  darkness  that  kept  him  from  work,  a  quick-  sleeping  man  who  would  be  up  at  three,  filling  the  kettle,  opening  thered  cof-  fee  can,  impatient  to  start.  &quot;Wauneta,  what  a  you  want  me  a  do  about  it?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Drown  him  in  the  stocktank?  He  will  kick  off  one  a  these  days.&quot;  &quot;You  been  sayin  that  for  five  years.  He  is  takin  the  scenic  route.&quot;  Time  counted  out  in  calving;  first  grass;  branding;  rainfall;  clouds;  roundup;  the  visit  from  old  Amendinger  the  cattle  buyer;  shipping;  early  snow;  late  blizzard.  The  children  grew  up.  Aladdin  got  an  old  Piper  Cub,  swapping  it  for  two  bulls,  a  set  of  truck  tires,  a  saddle,  the  rusted  frame  and  cylinder  ofan  1860  Colt  44  he'd  found  at  the  root  of  a  cedar.  Wau-  &gt;  neta's  sandy  hair  grayed  and  every  few  &amp;  months  she  went  into  the  bathroom  and  Egave  it  a  maroon  color  treatment.  Only  2  old  Red  watched  the  progression  of  dates  on  his  little  feed-store  calendar.  He  was  older  than  kerosene  now  and  strong  to  make  his  century.  HAN,  the  younger  daughter,  gradu-  ated  from  high  school,  moved  to  [REDACTED]  Vegas.  She  took  ajob  in  the  package-  design  department  of  a  manufacturer  of  religious  CDs,  quickly  grasped  the  sub-  tleties  of  images:  breaking  waves,  shafts    of  sunlight  denoted  godly  favor,  while  dark  clouds  with  iridescent  edges,  babies  smiling  through  tears  represented  trou-  bles  that  would  soon  pass  with  the  help  of  prayer.  Nothing  was  hopeless  and  the  money  came  in  on  wheels.  Ottaline  was  the  oldest,  distinguished  by  a  physique  approaching  the  size  of  a  propane  tank.  She  finished  school  a  year  behind  her  younger  sister,  stayed  home.  She  plaited  her  reddish-pink  hair  in  two  braids  as  thick  as  whip  handles.  In  con-  versation  a  listener  would  look  back  and  forth  between  the  pillowy,  dimpled  mouth  and  erystal-crack  blue  eyes  and  think  it  a  pity  she  was  so  big.  The  first  year  at  home  101  she  wore  gaily  colored  XXL  skirts  and  helped  out  around  the  house.  But  her  legs  were  always  cold  and  she  suffered  from  what  Wauneta  called  &quot;minstrel  problems,&quot;  a  sudden  flow  that  sent  her  running  for  the  bathroom,  leaving  a  trail  of  dark,  round  blood  spots  behind  hervarying  in  size  from  a  dime  to  a  half-dollar.  Af-  ter  bare-legged  wades  through  snow,  after  scaly  chilblain,  she  gave  up  drafty  skirts  and  housework,  changed  to  ranch  chores  with  Aladdin.  Now  she  wore  manure-caked  roper  boots,  big  jeans,  and  T-shirts  that  hung  to  her  thighs.  &quot;Yes,  keep  her  out  a  the  house,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  &quot;What  she  don't  break  she  loses  and  what  she  don't  lose  she  breaks.  Her  cookin  would  kill  a  pig.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  cookin,&quot;  said  ._  Ottaline.  &quot;I'll  help  Dad.&quot;  It  was  a  fallback  position.  She  wanted  to  be  away,  wearing  red  sandals  with  cork  soles,  sitting  in  the  passenger  seat  of  a  pearl-  colored  late-model  pickup,  drinking  from  a  bottle  shaped  likea  hula  girl.  When  would  someone  come  for  her?  She  was  not  audacious,  not  like  her  younger  sister.  She  knew  her  appalling  self  and  there  wasno  way  to  evade  it.  Aladdin  saw  she  was  easy  with  the  stock,  where  the  boy  Tyler  whooped  and  whistled  and  rode  like  a  messen-  ger  reporting  a  massacre.  &quot;Had  my  way,  ever  hand'd  be  a  woman.  A  woman  got  a  nice  disposition  with  animals.&quot;  He  intended  the  remark  to  sting.  &quot;Oh,  Daddy,&quot;  said  Tyler  in  comic  fal-  setto.  He  was  the  horseman  of  the  family,  had  slept  out  in  the  dilapidated  bunkhouse  since  he  was  thirteen,  Wauneta's  edict.  &quot;My  brothers  slept  in  the  bunkhouse.&quot;  There  was  in  that  flat  remark  all  of  Wau-  neta's  childhood,  sequestered,  alert,  sur-  rounded  by  menace.  This  only  son,  Tyler,  was  a  huge,  kit-  handed  youth  of  nineteen  stout  enough  to  frighten  any  father  except  Aladdin.  The  kid  stamped  around  in  dirty  jeans  and  a  brown  hat.  He  was  slack-mouthed  in  rev-  " b"102  erie,  sported  a  young  man's  cat-fur  mus-  tache,  cheeks  marred  by  strings  of  tiny  pimples.  He  was  only  one  per  cent  right  about  anything,  alternated  between  de-  spondency  and  quick  fury.  On  Aladdin's  birthday  Tyler  presented  him  with  two  coyote  ears,  the  result  of  weeks  of  cunning  stalk.  Aladdin  unwrapped  them,  laid  them  on  the  tablecloth,  and  said,  &quot;Aw,  what  am  I  supposed  a  do  with  two  coyote  ears?&quot;  &quot;By  God,&quot;  screamed  Tyler,  &quot;set  one  a  them  on  your  dick  and  say  it  won  a  fur  hat  in  the  church  raffle.  You  are  all  against  me.&quot;  He  swept  the  ears  to  the  floor  and  walked  out.  &quot;He  will  be  back,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  &quot;He  will  be  back  with  dirty  clothes  and  his  pockets  turned  inside  out.  I  know  boys.&quot;  &quot;I  was  the  wanderin  boy,&quot;  old  Red  mumbled.  &quot;He  won't  be  back.  Takes  after  me.  I  cowboyed.  I  killed  hogs.  I  made  it  through.  Worked  like  a  man  since  I  was  fourteen.  Ninety-six  years  young.  Never  knowed  my  father.  Carry  you  all  to  hell  and  spit  on  you.&quot;  His  finger  dragged  across  the  tablecloth,  the  long-ago  self  making  a  way.  The  old  man  showed  a  terrible  smile,  fumbled  with  his  can  of  snoose.  LADDIN,  face  like  a  shield,  curly  hair  springing,  tipped  his  head  toward  the  tablecloth,  mumbled,  &quot;O  bless  this  food.&quot;  Heavy  beef  slices,  encircled  by  a  chain  of  parsnips  and  boiled  potatoes,  slumped  on  the  platter.  He  had  discov-  ered  two  long-dead  cows  that  afternoon,  one  bogged,  the  other  without  a  mark  of  cause.  He  lifted  a  small  potato  and  trans-  ferred  it  to  his  father's  plate  without  look-  ing  at  him,  ignored  the  rattling  of  the  old  man's  fork,  though  Wauneta,  pouring  cof-  fee  into  heavy  cups,  frowned,  and  said,  &quot;Watch  it,  John  Wayne.&quot;  A  pastel  enve-  lope  lay  between  her  knife  and  a  flat  cake  with  sugar  icing  so  thin  it  appeared  blue.  &quot;Somethin  come  from  Shan.&quot;  &quot;She  comin  back?&quot;  Aladdin  crushed  his  potatoes,  flooded  them  with  skim  milk.  Game  and  Fish  would  pay  for  stock  killed  by  grizzlies  or  lions.  He  had  not  seen  lion  sign  for  a  decade  and  grizzly,  never.  &quot;Didn't  open  it  yet,&quot;  she  said,  tearing  the  end.  There  was  a  short  and  vague  let-  ter  that  she  read  aloud  and,  clipped  to  it,  an  astonishing  photograph.  It  showed  his  daughter  in  a  black  bikini,  greased  mus-  cles  starkly  outlined,  exhibiting  bulging  bi-  ceps  and  calves,  spiky  crewcut  hair  whit-  ened  with  bleach,  her  rolling,  apricot-size  eyes  frozen  wide  open.  In  the  letter  she  had  written,  &quot;Got  into  bodybuilding.  Alot  of  girls  here  do  it!&quot;  &quot;Whatever  shehas  done  to  her  hair,&quot;  said  Wauneta,  &quot;somebody  talked  her  into  it.  I  know  Shan  and  that  would  not  be  her  idea.&quot;  When  Shan  left  she  had  been  an  ordinary  young  woman  with  thin  arms,  blondish  chew-ended  hair.  Her  glancing  unlevel  eyes  ricked  from  faceto  face.  When  she  spoke,  her  hands  re-  volved,  the  fingers  flung  out.  The  year-  book  had  named  her  &quot;most  animated.&quot;  &quot;Bodybuildin.&quot;  Aladdin's  tone  was  neutral.  He  had  the  rancher's  expectation  of  disaster,  never  believed  in  happy  end-  ings.  He  was  satisfied  that  she  was  alive,     THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  30,  1998  not  building  bombs  or  winking  at  drive-  by  johns.  Ottaline  stared  at  her  coffee.  Floating  on  the  surface  was  a  spread-wing  moth  the  shape  of  a  tiny  arrowhead.  It  pointed  at  her  sister's  empty  chair.  LADDIN  wore  boots  and  abighat  but  rarely  mounted  a  horse.  He  missed  the  Piper  Cub,  which  had  seemed  to  him  very  like  a  horse.  Someone  had  stolen  it  two  years  earlier,  had  unbolted  the  wings  and  hauled  it  away  on  a  flatbed  while  he  slept.  He  suspected  Mormons.  Now  he  was  welded  to  the  driver's  seat  of  his  truck,  tearing  overthe  dusty  roll  of  land,  and  sometimes,  drugged  and  fallen,  he  spent  thenight  out  ina  draw,  cramped  on  the  front  seat.  The  windshield  glass,  discolored  by  high-altitude  light,  threw  down  violet  radiance.  He  had  made  the  headache  rack  from  poles  cut  on  the  ranch.  He  kept  a  bottle  of  whiskey,  a  rope  behind  the  seat.  The  open  glove  compart-  ment  carried  kindling,  wrenches,  bolts  and  nuts,several  hundred  loose  fence  sta-  ples,  and  a  handleless  hammerhead.  Wauneta  tossed  an  old  quilt  in  the  cab  and  told  him  to  wind  up  the  windows  when  it  rained.  &quot;I  know  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  will  let  the  weather  get  you.&quot;  Every  ten  daysor  so  Ottaline  reared  up  and  said  she  wanted  to  go  to  town  and  look  for  a  job.  Aladdin  would  not  take  her.  Her  weight,  he  said,  ruined  the  springs  on  the  passenger  side.  Anyway,  there  were  no  jobs,  she  knew  that.  She  had  better  stay  on  the  ranch  where  she  didn't  know  how  good  she  had  it.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  you  would  want  a  leave  this  ranch.&quot;  She  said  he  should  let  her  drive  in  alone.  &quot;I  will  tell  you  when  I  am  ready  for  advice,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  am  steerin  my  own  truck  for  now.  If  you  want  a  drive  a  truck  then  buy  one.&quot;  &quot;I  am  about  a  million  dollars  short.&quot;  It  was  all  hopeless.  &quot;What  a  you  want  me  a  do,  rob  a  bank  for  you?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Anyway,  you're  comin  a  the  bull  sale.  And  I'll  give  you  a  pointer  you  don't  want  a  forget.  Scrotal  circum-  ference  is  damn  important.&quot;  HAT  was  there  for  Ottaline  when  the  work  slacked  off?  Stare  atin-  digo  slants  of  hail  forty  miles  east,  regard  the  tumbled  clouds  like  mechanics'  rags,  count  out  he  loves  me,  he  loves  me  not,  in     " b"nervous  lightning  crooked  as  branchwood  through  all  quarters  of  the  sky.  That  summer  the  horses  were  always  wet.  It  rained  uncommonly,  thesouth-  west  monsoon  sweeping  in.  The  shin-  ing  horses  stood  out  on  the  prairie,  with-  ers  streaming,  manes  dripping,  and  one  would  suddenly  start  off,  a  fan  of  drop-  lets  coming  off  its  shoulders  like  a  cape.  Ottaline  and  Aladdin  wore  slickers  from  morning  coffee  to  good-nightyawn.  Wauneta  watched  the  television  weather  while  she  ironed  shirts  and  sheets.  Old  Red  called  it  drip  and  dribble,  stayed  in  his  room  chewing  tobacco,  reading  Zane  Grey  in  large-print  editions,  his  curved  fingernail  creasing  the  page  un-  der  every  line.  On  the  Fourth  of  July  they  sat  together  on  the  porch  watching  a  distant  storm,  pretending  the  thick,  ruddy  legs  of  lightning  and  thunder  were  fireworks.  Ottaline  had  seen  most  of  what  there  was  tosee  around  her  with  nothing  new  in  sight.  Brilliant  events  burst  open  not  in  the  future  but  in  the  imagination.  The  room  she  had  shared  with  Shan  was  a  room  within  a  room.  In  the  unshaded  moonlight  her  eyes  shone  oily  white.  The  calfskin  rug  on  the  floor  seemed  to  move,  to  hunch  and  crawl  a  fraction  of  an  inch  at  a  time.  The  dark  frameof  the  mirror  sank  into  the  wall,  a  rectangu-  lar  trench.  From  her  bed  she  saw  the  moon-bleached  grain  elevator  and  be-  hind  it  immeasurable  range  flecked  with  cows  like  small  black  seeds.  She  was  no  one  but  Ottaline  in  that  peppery,  dis-  turbing  light  that  made  her  want  every-  thing  there  was  to  want.  The  raw  loneli-  ness  then,  the  silences  of  the  day,  the  longing  flesh  led  her  to  press  her  mouth  into  the  crook  of  her  own  hot  elbow.  She  pinched  and  pummelled  her  fat  flanks,  rolled  on  the  bed,  twisted,  went  to  the  window  a  dozen  times,  heels  striking  the  floor  until  old  Red  in  his  pantry  below  called  out,  &quot;What  is  it?  You  got  a  sailor  up  there?&quot;  Her  only  chance  seemed  the  semi-  literate,  off-again,  on-again  hired  man,  Hal  Bloom,  tall  legs  like  chopsticks,  T-shirt  emblazoned  &quot;Aggressive  by  Na-  ture,  Cowboy  by  Choice.&quot;  He  worked  for  Aladdin  in  short  bursts  between  rodeo  roping,  could  not  often  be  pried  off  his  horse  (for  he  cherished  a  vision  of  himself  as  an  eighteen-seventies  cow-  boy  just  in  from  an  [REDACTED]  cattle  drive).  Ottaline  had  gone  with  him  down  into  the  willows  a  dozen  times,  to  the  damp  soil  and  nests  of  stinging  nettles,  where  he  pulled  a  pale  condom  over  his  small,  hard  penis  and  crawled  silently  onto  her.  His  warm  neck  smelled  of  soap  and  horse.  But  then,  when  Ottaline  began  work-  ing  on  the  ranch  for  hard  money,  Alad-  din  told  Hal  Bloom  to  go  spin  his  rope.  &quot;Yeah,  well,  it's  too  shit-fire  long  a  haul  out  here  anyways,&quot;  Bloom  said,  and  was  gone.  That  was  that.  Ottaline  was  dissolving.  It  \xc2\xab\xef\xac\x82  was  too  far  to  anything.  Some-  one  had  to  come  for  her.  There  was  not  even  the  solace  of  tele-  vision,  for  old  Red  dominated  the  controls,  always  choosing  Westerns,  calling  out  to  the  film  horses  in  his  broken  voice,  &quot;Buck  him  off,  kick  his  brains  out!&quot;  Ottaline  went  up  to  her  room,  listened  to  cell-phone  conversations  on  the  scanner.  &quot;The  balance  on  account  num-  ber  seven  three  five  five  nine  is  mi-  nus  two  hundred  and  oh  four.  ...&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  can  see  that,  maybe.  Are  you  drinkin  beer  already?&quot;  &quot;Ha-ha.  Yes.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  maybe  you  didn't  notice.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  all  smashed  flat  like  that,  all  soft.  I  took  it  out  of  the  bag  and  it  was-you  goin  a  carve  if?&quot;  &quot;Not  that  one.  It's  nasty.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  is  it  rainin  there  yet?&quot;  &quot;Is  it  rainin  yet?&quot;  she  repeated.  It  was  raining  everywhere  and  people  were  alive  in  it  except  in  the  Red  Wall  country.  TTALINE  studied  Shan's  photograph,  saidto  her  mother,  &quot;If  it  kills  me  I  am  goin  a  walk  it  off.&quot;  &quot;Haven't  I  heard  that  before?&quot;  said  Wauneta.  &quot;I  know  you.&quot;  Ottaline  marched  around  outside  the  house  for  a  few  days,  then  widened  the  loop  to  take  in  the  corrals,  the  toolshed,  the  root  cellar,  circumambulated  the  de-  funct  gravel  quarry  where  Aladdin  dragged  worn-out  equipment,  a  sample  of  trac-  tors,  one  a  1928  blue  Rumely  OilPull  tractor  on  steel  with  a  chokecherry  tree  growing  through  the  frame,  beside  it  old  Red's  secondhand  1935  AC  with  the  four-  cylinder  overhead  valve  engine,  paint  sun-  scalded  white.  Half  buried  at  the  foot  of  a  caving  bank  lay  the  remains  of  a  stripped  Fordson  Major,  grille  and  radiator  shroud  smashed  in,  and  next  to  a  ruined  stock  tank  stood  the  treacherous  John  Deere  4030.  Shewas  walking  through  the  rain-  slicked  wrecks  when  a  voice  spoke,  barely  audible.  &quot;Sweetheart,  lady-girl.&quot;  103  The  low  sun  poured  slanting  light  under  the  edge  of  a  cloud  mass  so  dark  it  seemed  charred,  the  prairie,  the  tractors,  her  hand  beyond  the  wrist  hem  of  the  yellow  slicker,  all  gilded  with  saffron  bril-  liance.  Colors  of  otherworld  intensity  blazed  in  the  washed  air,  the  distant  Red  Wall  a  bed  of  coals.  &quot;Sweet,&quot;  the  voice  breathed.  Shewas  alone,  there  were  no  alien  spacecraft  in  the  sky.  She  stood  quite  still.  She  had  eaten  from  a  plateful  of  misery  since  child-  hood,  suffered  avoirdupois,  un-  feeling  parents,  the  hard  circum-  stances  of  the  place.  Looniness  was  possible,  it  could  happen  to  anyone.  Her  mother's  brother  Mapston  Hipsag  had  contracted  a  case  of  lumpy  jaw  from  the  stock  and  the  disease  took  him  by  stages  from  depressive  rancher  to  sniggering  maniac.  The  light  glided  down  to  a  dying  hueand  the  wrecked  machines  sank  into  their  own  coffee-brown  shadows.  She  heard  nothing  but  mosquito  whine,  small  wind  that  comes  with  approaching  darkness.  That  night,  listening  to  the  ramble  of  talk  on  the  scanner,  she  wondered  if  hun-  ger  had  prompted  an  invisible  voice,  went  to  the  kitchen,  and  ate  all  of  the  leftover  pork  roast.  &quot;I'm  worried  about  you.  I  hope  nobody  tries  to  kill  you  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Don't  miss  me  too  much.&quot;  &quot;Nothin  been  hit.&quot;  &quot;It  just  rained  like  a  bastard  up  here.&quot;  &quot;Rained  like  shit,  here  too.&quot;  &quot;No  point  stayin  here.&quot;     OTHING  happened  for  weeks,  com-  mon  enough  in  that  part  of  the  state.  On  a  roaring  noon  she  went  again  to  the  gravel  pit.  &quot;Hello,  sweetheart.  Come  here,  come  here.&quot;  It  was  the  4030,  Aladdin's  old  green  tractor,  burly  but  with  forward-  raking  lines  that  falsely  indicated  an  ea-  gerness  torun.  The  machine  had  killed  a  ranch  hand  years  earlier  in  a  rollover  accident  at  the  weed-filled  irrigation  ditch-Maurice  Ramblewood,  or  what?  Rambletree,  Bramblefood,  Rumbleseat,  Tumbleflood?  Shewas  a  kid  but  he  al-  ways  flashed  her  a  smile,  asked  her  what  was  cooking,  and  on  the  fatal  day  tossed  her  a  candy  bar,  pliable  and  warm  from  his  shirt  pocket,  said  she  could  borrow  his  sunglasses  that  turned  the  world  or-  ange.  In  late  afternoon  he  was  dead  in  " b" bristle  grass  and  spiny  clotbur.  His  ghost.  &quot;Maurice?  That  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;No.  No.  It  ain't  him.  That  boy's  a  cinder.&quot;  &quot;Who  is  talkin?&quot;  &quot;Two  steps  closer.&quot;  She  stretched  outher  hand  to  the  side  grille.  Yellow  jackets  had  built  a  nest  in  it  and  were  creeping  in  and  out  of  the  grilles  interstices,  palping  the  air  suspiciously.  She  stared  fixedly  at  the  insects.  &quot;That  is  good,&quot;  said  the  voice  inside  the  tractor.  &quot;Get  you  a  little  stick  and  scratch  where  all  that  paint  is  blistered  up.&quot;  But  she  backed  off.  &quot;I'm  just  scared  to  pieces,&quot;  she  said,  looking  at  the  sky,  the  rise  and  fall  of  crested  prairie,  the  bunchgrass  edge  of  the  world  that  flared  like  burning  threads.  &quot;Naw,  now,  don't  be.  This  old  world  is  full  a  wonders,  ain't  it?  Come  on,  get  up  in  the  cab.  Plenty  a  bounce  left.  The  seat's  still  good.  Pretend  you'redrivin  right  through  L.A.&quot;  The  voice  was  hoarse  and  plangent,  just  above  an  injured  whisper,  a  movie  gangster's  voice.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  like  this.  Ial-  ready  got  enough  problems,  not  makin  it  worse  by  gettin  in  aold  tractor  cab  that's  ready  to  collapse.&quot;  &quot;Aw,  you  think  you  got  problems?  Look  at  me,  sweetheart,  settin  out  here  in  the  bakin  sun,  blizzards  and  lizards,  not  even  a  tarpolean  over  me,  brakes  wrecked,  battery  gone,  workin  parts  seizedup,  no  gas,  surrounded  by  deadheads,  covered  with  birdshit  and  rust.  Here  you  are  at  last,  won't  even  give  me  the  time  a  day.&quot;  &quot;It's  six-twelve,&quot;  she  said  and  walked  off,  fingertips  pressing  her  eyebrows.  This  was  hallucination.  The  voice  called  after  her,  &quot;Sweetheart,  lady-girl,  don't  go.&quot;  HE  craved  to  know  something  of  the  world,  but  there  was  only  the  scanner.  &quot;Broken,  threads  stripped,  had  to  take  it  up  and  get  it  welded.  You  know  that  fucker  used  a  do  that  shit  but  he  don't  hang  around  here  no  more.&quot;  &quot;-bhorns  off  the  steers.  I  stopped  by  to  see  her.&quot;  &quot;Yeah?  They  told  me  you  left  before  three.&quot;  &quot;I  was  there  at  three  to  change  my  clothes.&quot;  &quot;You  know  you're  full  a  bullshit.&quot;  &quot;It's  fuckin  pourin  here,  man.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  what  else.  It  was  like-  Whoa!  Ob  my  God  that  was  a  big  lightnin!  Whoa!  I  got  a  get  off  the  fuckin  phone.&quot;  &quot;I  want  a  be  with  you,  but  I  look  at  real-  ity  andI  say  to  myself  this  fuckin  woman  wants  a  fuck  everbody,  I  can't  even  get  it  on  105  the  couch,  got  a  go  in  the  fuckin  bedroom.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  it's  all  my  fault,  right?&quot;  It  made  her  sick,  it  made  her  jealous  to  hear  those  quarrelsome  but  coupled  voices.  SHE  went  again  to  the  gravel  pit.  The  choking  rasp  began  when  she  was  twenty  feet  distant.  &quot;Maurice  Stumblebum?  Just  forget  him.  Wrench  your  steerin  wheel,  jam  the  brakes,  rev,  rev,  rev.  Never  change  oil  or  filter,  never  check  brake  fluid,  never  got  the  ballast  right,  didn't  bother  a  check  the  front-wheel  toe-in,  used  a  ride  the  clutch  unmerciful,  run  in  heavy  mud  and  never  think  a  the  front  wheel  bearins.  They're  ground  a  dust.  Jump  around  in  the  seat  until  it  made  me  crazy.  Aw,  don't  drum  your  fingers  like  that,  take  me  serious.&quot;  She  looked  away  to  the  Red  Wall,  something  best  kept  at  a  distance.  It  was  not  a  place  to  go.  The  distant  highway  flashed,  the  reflection  from  a  bottle  pitched  out  of  a  tourist's  car.  &quot;But  that  ain't  why  I  killed  him.&quot;  &quot;Then  why?&quot;  &quot;Over  you,&quot;  said  the  tractor.  &quot;Over  you.  I  saved  you  from  him.  He  was  goin  a  get  you.&quot;  &quot;I  could  a  saved  myself,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;if  T'd  a  wanted  to.&quot;  A:  supper  Wauneta  opened  a  pink  en-  velope  from  Shan.  &quot;What  I  thought,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  knew  it.  I  knew  Tyler'd  show  up.&quot;  Shan  wrote  that  Tyler  had  been  living  with  her  and  her  roommate  for  a  month,  that  he  was  trying  for  a  job  with  the  BLM  rounding  up  wild  horses  and,  while  he  waited  to  hear,  hold-  ing  down  a  telephone  job  for  a  bill  collec-  tor.  He  had  bought  himself  a  computer  and  in  the  daytime  seemed  to  be  studying  elec-  tronics-the  table  was  covered  with  bits  of  wire  and  tape  and  springs  when  she  came  home  from  the  gym.  They  had  become  vegetarians,  except  Tyler,  who  ate  shrimp  and  crab  legs,  foods  he  had  never  tasted  until  [REDACTED]  Vegas.  He  could  not  get  enough  of  them.  He  had,  wrote  Shan,  spent  sixty-  five  dollars  for  a  four-pound  box  of  jumbo  shrimp,  had  cooked  and  eaten  them  in  solitary  gluttony.  &quot;Ha-ha,  not  much  has  changed.  He  is  still  a  pig,&quot;  the  letter  ended.  Aladdin  put  a  parsnip  on  old  Red's  plate.  &quot;Shrimps'll  make  your  pecker  curl,&quot;  said  the  old  man.  &quot;Sounds  like  he's  buildin  a  bomb  with  them  wires.&quot;  &quot;He's  not  doin  no  such  thing,&quot;said  Wauneta.  Aftersupper  Ottaline  scraped  the     " b"  dishes,  began  to  snivel.  Wauneta  slung  her  hip  against  her,  put  her  arm  around  the  soft  shoulders.  &quot;What  are  you  cryin  about?  That  weight  not  comin  off?  Make  up  your  mind  to  it,  you  are  one  a  them  meant  to  be  big.  My  mother  was  the  same.&quot;  &quot;Not  that.  It  seems  like  somebody  is  makin  fun  a  me.&quot;  &quot;Who?  Who  is  makin  fun  a  you?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.Somebody.&quot;  She  pointed  at  the  ceiling.  &quot;Well,  let  me  tell  you,  that  Somebody  makes  fun  a  everbody.  Somebody's  got  a  be  laughin  at  the  joke.  Way  I  look  at  it.&quot;  &quot;It's  lonesome  here.&quot;  &quot;There's  no  lonesome,  you  work  hard  enough.&quot;  Ottaline  went  upstairs,  set  the  scanner  to  rove  and  seek.  &quot;Please  enter  your  billing  number  now.  I'm  sorry,  you  have  either  misdialledor  di-  alled  a  billing  number  we  cannot  accept.  Please  dial  again.&quot;  &quot;Why  would  it  do  that?&quot;  &quot;Turn  it  off,  turn  it  off.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  git  doughnuts.  And  don't  be  squirtin  around  with  twelve  of  em.  Git  a  bunch.  Don't  be  squirtin  around,  git  two  boxes.&quot;  &quot;If  that's  fuckin  all  you  have  to  say-then  dang!&quot;  EVERY  day  the  tractor  unloaded  fresh  complaints,  the  voice  rough  and  urgent.  &quot;Lady-girl,  your  daddy  is  a  cocklebur.  Get  up  and  he  don't  get  down.  Stay  in  the  seat  sixteen  hours.  Aw,  come  here,  I  want  to  show  you  somethin.  Look  to  the  left  athe  cowl  there,  yeah,  down  there.  What  do  you  see?&quot;  &quot;Patch  a  rust.  Big  patch  a  rust.&quot;  &quot;That's  right.  A  big  patch  a  rust.  I  won't  tell  you  how  that  got  there.  I  don't  like  to  tell  a  girl  somethin  bad  about  her  daddy.  But  in  all  the  years  I  worked  for  your  daddy  I  only  once  had  a  sweet  day  and  that  was  the  day  I  come  here  straight  off  the  dealer's  yard,  fourth-hand  and  abused,  andyou  was  ten  years  old,  your  birthday.  You  patted  me  and  said,  'Hello,  Mr.  Trac-  tor.'  Your  daddy  put  you  up  in  the  seat,  said,  'You  can  be  the  first  one  a  sit  there,'  and  your  little  hand  was  sticky  with  frostin  andyou  wiggled  around  in  the  seat  and  I  thought-I  thought  it  was  goin  a  be  like  that  ever  day  and  it  never  happened  again,  you  never  touched  me  again,  never  come  near  me,  just  that  damn  bony-assed  Mau-  rice  couldn't  be  bothered  ause  the  rock-  shaft  lever,  I  got  him  with  hydraulic  oil  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  30,  1998  under  pressure,  he  got  a  infection.  And  your  dirty  dad.  Broke  my  heart  until  now.  But  I'll  tell  you  the  truth.  If  your  daddy  was  a  get  up  here  today  I  would  hurt  him  for  what  he  done  a  my  brake  system.  I  will  tell  you  sometime  about  the  beer  and  what  he  done  with  it.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;I'd  tell  you,  but  I  think  it  would  dis-  gust  you.  I  won't  turn  a  lady-girl  against  her  family.  I  know  you'd  hold  it  against  me  and  I  don't  want  that.  Tell  you  some  other  time.&quot;  &quot;You  tell  me  now.  Don't  go  around  talkin  blah-blah.  I  hate  that.&quot;  &quot;All  right.  You  asked  for  it.  Stumble-  bum  never  bothered  a  check  nothin.  Fi-  nally  brake  fluid's  gone.  I'mout  there  with  your  daddy,  on  the  slope,  we  was  haulin  a  horse  trailer.  He'sgot  his  old  six-pack  with  him,  way  he  drinks  he's  alcoholic.  He  mashes  his  foot  on  the  brake  and  we  just  keep  rippin.  No  way  he  could  stop  me,  not  that  I  wanted  a  stop.  I  didn't  care.  Slowed  only  whenwe  come  at  a  rise.  He  jumped  off  before  the  rollback,  kicked  a  rock  under  a  back  wheel.  What  he  done-  poured  warm  beer  in  my  master-brake-  cylinder  reservoir,  pumped  that  beer  down  the  brake  lines.  Yeah,  he  got  enough  pres-  sure.  But  it  ruined  me.  That's  why  I'm  here.  You  hate  me  for  tellin  you,  don't  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;No.  I  heard  a  worse  crimes.  Like  killin  somebody  ina  ditch.&quot;  &quot;You  goin  a  pout?&quot;  AVOTHER  day  she  stormed  out  to  the  gravel  pit.  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  you  see  I'm  fat?&quot;  &quot;What  I  like.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  fix  your  attentions  on  another  tractor?  Leave  me  alone.&quot;  &quot;Now,  think  about  it,  lady-girl.  Trac-  tors  don't  care  nothin  about  tractors.  Trac-  tors  and  people,  that's  how  it  is.  Ever  tractor  craves  some  human  person,  usu-  ally  ends  up  with  some  big  old  farmer.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  like  an  enchanted  thing?  A  damn  story  where  some  girl  lets  a  warty  old  toad  sleep  in  her  shoe  and  in  the  mornin  the  toad's  a  good-lookin  dude  makin  omelettes?&quot;  &quot;Naw.  I  could  tell  you  they  had  a  guy  work  at  Deere  a  few  years  ago  got  fired  out  a  the  space  program  for  havin  picnics  with  foreigners  and  drinkin  vodka  but  they  couldn't  prove  nothin.  He  was  cross-wired  about  it.  It  was  around  when  they  started  foolin  with  computers  and  digital  tapes.  Re-  member  them  cars  that  told  you  to  shut     " b" the  door?  Like  that.  Simple.  Computers.  He  worked  me  up,  fifteen  languages.  I  could  tell  you  that.  Want  a  hear  me  say  somethin  in  Urdu?  Skivelly,  skavelly-&quot;  &quot;You  could  tell  me  that,  but  I  would  not  believe  it.  Some  lame  story.&quot;  And  it  seemed  to  her  that  the  inbuilt  affec-  tion  for  humans  the  tractor  harped  on  was  balanced  by  vindictive  malevolence.  &quot;That's  right,  I  was  lyin.&quot;  &quot;You  got  any  kind  a  sense,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you'd  know  people  don't  go  crazy  over  tractors.&quot;  &quot;Where  you're  wrong.  Fa-  mous  over  in  [REDACTED],  Mr.  Bob  Ladderrung  got  himself  bur-  ied  with  his  tractor.  Flat-out  loved  each  other,  he  didn't  care  who  knew  it.  And  I  don't  just  mean  [REDACTED]  farmers.  There's  fellas  can't  keep  away  from  us.  There's  girls  fell  in  love  with  tractors  all  over  this  country.  There  is  girls  married  tractors.&quot;  &quot;I'm  goin  in,&quot;  she  said,  turning  away.  &quot;I'm  goin  in.&quot;  She  looked  at  the  house,  her  mother's  wedding  wheat  swaying  yellow,  old  Red's  face  like  a  hanging  skull  in  the  window.  &quot;Oh,  please,&quot;  she  saidto  herself,  weeping,  &quot;not  a  tractor  or  nothin  like  it.&quot;  After  supper,  in  her  room,  she  wished  for  a  ray  gun  to  erase  the  brilliant  nee-  dles  of  light  from  the  isolate  highway,  silence  the  dull  humming  like  bees  in  a  high  maybush.  She  wanted  the  cows  to  lie  down  and  die,  hoped  fora  tornado,  the  Second  Coming,  violent  men  in  suits  driving  a  fast  car  into  the  yard.  There  was  the  scanner.  &quot;You  think  he's  normal  until  you  start  to  talk  to  him.&quot;  &quot;I  should  a  called  the  police,  as  mean  and  horrible  as  he  is,  but  I'm  not  goin  a  do  that.  And  this  is  what  I'm  thinkin.  I'm  goin  a  go  after  him  even  though  we  haven't  been  mar-  ried  that  long.  Hes  goin  a  pay.  He's  got  it!  He's  makin  two  thousand  a  month.  Anyway,  I  got  a  headache  every  daya  my  life  over  this.  But  I'm  fine.  Just  a  little  insane.  Don't  worry,  I'm  fine.&quot;     LADDIN  lifted  a  wad  of  turnip  greens  from  the  bowl,  lowered  it  onto  Ot-  taline's  plate.  &quot;What  are  you  doin  out  there  in  the  gravel  pit  with  them  tractors?  I  was  lookin  for  you  half  a  hour.&quot;  &quot;Thinkin,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;of  maybe  try  a  fix  up  that  Deere.  Like  just  mess  around  with  it.&quot;  That  day  she  had  climbed  up  into  the  cab,  sat  on  the  seat,  feeling  an  awful  thrill.     &quot;I  wouldn't  spend  a  dime  on  that  damn  thing.  It  never  run  good.&quot;  &quot;I'd  spend  my  own  money  on  parts.  I  don't  know,  maybe  a  foolish  idea.  Thought  I  might  try.&quot;  &quot;We  had  trouble  with  that  machine  from  day  one.  Damn  Maurice  Gargle-  guts  got  done,  it  wouldn't  go  much.  We  hauled  that  thing  to  Dig  Yant,  he  re-  placed  some  a  the  wirin,  cleaned  the  fuel  tank,  blew  out  the  gas  line,  ten  other  things,  rebuilt  the  carburetor.  Then  somethin  else  went  wrong.  Ever  time  they  fixed  it,  it'd  blow  up  somewhere  else.  They  give  me  a  hot  iron  on  that  one.  I  went  to  raisin  heck  and  the  dealer  finally  admitted  it  was  a  lemon.  Give  me  a  real  good  deal  on  the  Case.  Now,  that's  a  tractor  that's  held  up.  You  know,  that  4030,  you  will  be  strippin  it  down  to  grit.&quot;  He  atehis  meat  loaf.  He  thought,  said,  &quot;I  could-  might  give  you  a  hand.  Haul  it  in  that  blue-door  shed.  Put  a  stove  out  there,  run  a  pipe.&quot;  He  saw  himself  rising  in  the  black  wintry  morning  while  his  family  slept,  going  out  to  the  shed  to  stoke  the  fire,  take  a  little  smoke,  and  in  the  cozy  warmth  breaking  loose  rusty  bolts,  cleaning  mucky  fittings,  pins,  studs,  screws,  nuts  soaking  in  a  tub  of  kerosene  while  he  waited  for  daylight  and  the  start  of  the  realday.  &quot;We'll  get  her  in  there  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Him,&quot;  said  Ottaline.  &quot;You  won't  fix  it,&quot;  said  old  Red.  &quot;What  you  are  tryin  a  fix  ain't  fixable.&quot;  O  K.,&quot;  she  said,  walking  up  to  the  tractor.  We  are  goin  a  move  you  into  the  blue-door  shed  and  operate.  My  dad  is  goin  ahelp  me  andyou  better  stay  hunderd  per  cent  quiet  or  it's  all  over.&quot;  &quot;You  want  a  know  my  problems?  Brakes.  Belts  shot,  block  cracked,  motor  seized,  everthing  rusted  hard,  sludge,  dirt,  lifters  need  replacin,  water  pump's  shot,  camshaft  bearins  shot,  seals  shot,  magneto,  alternator  fried-you  look  inside  that  clutch  housin  you'll  see  a  nightmare.  Clutch  plate  needs  a  be  relined,  got  a  re-  place  the  tie-rod  ends,  the  fuel  shut-off  line  is  bust,  the  steerin-gear  assembly  wrecked,  the  front  axle  bushings,  spindle  bushings  all  bananas  and  gone,  you  want  a  talk  differential  you'll  be  listin  parts  for  fif-  teen  minutes.  The  transmission  clutch  slipped  bad  before  everthing  went  blank.  I   " b" don't  want  your  dirty  dad  a  work  on  me.  He  already  done  that  and  look  at  me.&quot;  &quot;Different  now.  Anyway,  goin  a  be  mostly  me.  I'm  doin  this.  What  gears  was  that  tranny  clutch  slippin  in?&quot;  &quot;You?  You  don't  know  nothin  about  tractor  repair.  I  don't  want  you  workin  on  me.  I  want  you  should  take  me  a  Dig  Yant-he's  a  tractor  man.  It's  men  that  fixes  tractors,  not  no  woman.  First  and  third.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  got  much  choice.  Tell  you  one  thing,  I  didn't  take  home  ec.  I  took  mechanics  and  I  got  a  B.  First  and  third?  Seal  on  the  underdrive  brake  piston  or  more  likely  the  disks  bad  worn.&quot;  Shehad  brought  a  can  of  penetrating  oil  with  her  and  began  to  squirt  it  on  studs,  bolts,  and  screws,  to  rap  on  the  rusted  bolts  with  a  heavy  wrench.  &quot;You  make  a  wrong  move  I  might  hurt  you.&quot;  &quot;You  know  what?  I  was  you  I'd  lay  back  and  enjoy  it.&quot;  Something  Hal  Bloom  had  said.  THE  rain  quit  in  September  and  the  prairie  began  to  yellow  out.  There  were  a  few  heated  days;  then  the  weather  cooled  and  an  early  storm  hoop-rolled  out  of  the  northwest,  slinging  a  hash  of  snow,  before  they  got  the  tractor  dismantled  to  frame,  motor,  and  transmission.  &quot;We  got  a  get  a  engine  hoist  in  here,&quot;  said  Aladdin,  coughing.  The  first  night  of  the  storm  he  had  got  wasted  and  slept  out  in  his  pickup,  window  down,  the  snow  carousing  over  him.  He  woke  shudder-  ing,  drove  home,  heard  they  were  out  of  coffee,  drank  a  glass  of  cold  water,  told  Wauneta  he  could  not  eat  any  breakfast.  By  noon  he  was  feverish  and  strangling,  took  to  the  bed.  &quot;That  coughin  drives  me  into  the  wa-  ter  and  I  don't  swim,&quot;  said  old  Red.  &quot;Bet-  ter  off  just  smother  him,  be  done  with  it.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  somebody  else  at  the  top  a  my  smotherin  list,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  &quot;I  knew  this  was  goin  a  happen.  Sleep  in  a  truck.&quot;  Aspirin,  poultices,  glasses  of  water,  steam  tent,  hot  tea  were  her  remedies,  but  noth-  ing  changed.  Aladdin  roasted  in  his  own  dry  heat.  &quot;What's  tomorrow,&quot;  he  said,  rolling  his  aching  head  on  the  hot  pillow.  &quot;Friday.&quot;  &quot;Bring  me  my  calendar.&quot;  With  swim-  ming  eyes  he  studied  the  scrawled  notes,  called  for  Ottaline.  &quot;She's  out  feedin.  It  snowed  wet,  froze  hard  crust  out  there,  they  can't  hardly  get  grass.  Supposed  a  warm  up  this  weekend.&quot;  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  30,  1998  &quot;God  damn  it,&quot;  he  whispered,  &quot;when  she  comes  in  send  her  here.&quot;  He  shivered  and  retched.  HE  snow  rattled  down  on  Ottaline  in  the  cab  of  Aladdin's  big  Case  trac-  tor,  a  huge  round  bale  on  the  hydraulic-  lift  spear.  It  could  keep  snowing  until  June  the  way  it  was  coming  down.  At  noon  she  drove  back  to  the  house,  ravenous,  hop-  ing  for  macaroni  and  cheese.  She  left  the  Case  idling.  &quot;Dad  wants  you,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  It  was  beef  and  biscuits.  Ottaline  took  a  pickle  from  the  cut-glass  dish.  She  sidled  into  her  parents'  bedroom.  She  was  one  of  those  who  could  not  bear  sick  people,  who  did  not  know  where  to  look  except  away  from  the  bloodshot  eyes  and  swollen  face.  &quot;Look,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  first  Friday  athe  month  tomorrow.  I  got  Amendinger  comin  out  at  eight  o'clock.  If  I  ain't  better&quot;-he  coughed  until  he  retched-&quot;you  are  goin  a  deal  with  him,  take  him  out  there,  he  can  look  them  over,  see  what  we  got,  make  you  a  offer.&quot;  Amendinger,  the  cattle  buyer,  was  a  dark-complexioned  man  with  sagging  eyes,  a  black  mustache  whose  ends  plunged  down  to  his  jawline  like  twin  divers.  He  wore  black  shirts  and  a  black  hat,  gave  off  an  air  of  implacable  decision  and  con-  trol.  He  had  no  sense  of  humor  and  every  rancher  cursed  him  behind  his  back.  &quot;Dad,  I  am  scared  a  death  a  that  man.  He  will  getthe  best  a  me.  He  will  make  us  a  low  offer  and  I  will  get  rattled  and  say  yes.  Why  not  Ma?  Nobody  gets  on  her  bad  side.&quot;  &quot;Because  you  know  the  animals  and  she  don't.  If  Tyler  was  here-but  he  ain't.  You're  my  little  cowgirl.  You  don't  have  to  say  nothin.  Just  take  him  around,  hear  his  offer,  and  tell  him  we'll  get  back  to  him.&quot;  He  knew  that  Amendinger  did  business  on  the  spot;  there  was  no  getting  back  to  him.  &quot;I  get  better  of  this  I  am  goin  a  buy  a  plane  I  been  lookin  at.  It's  the  only  way  to  work  this  big  of  a  ranch.  A  truck  ain't  no  good,  windows  and  all.&quot;  &quot;I  could  bring  him  in  here,  Dad.&quot;  &quot;Nobody  outside  a  my  family  sees  me  layin  flat.  God  damn  it.&quot;  He  coughed.  &quot;Ain't  that  how  it  goes,  first  your  money  and  thenyour  clothes.&quot;  SHE  had  the  poorest  kindof  night  and  in  the  morning  rose  groggy  and  in  a  mood.  The  snow  had  quit  and  a  warm  Chinook  blew.  Already  the  plain  was  bare,  the  shrinking  drifts  lingering  in     " b"THE  BUNCHGRASS  EDGE  OF  THE  WORLD  cuts  and  folds  of  land.  They  were  still  out  of  coffee.  Upstairs  Aladdin  wheezed  and  panted.  &quot;He  don't  look  good,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  By  eight  the  cattle  dealer  had  not  ar-  rived.  Ottaline  ate  two  oatmeal  cookies,  another  slice  of  ham,  drank  a  glass  of  milk.  It  was  past  nine  when  the  dealer's  black  truck  pulled  in,  Amendinger's  black  hat  bent  down  as  he  reached  for  papers.  There  were  three  hound  dogs  in  the  back.  He  got  out  with  the  clipboard  in  his  hand,  already  punching  figures  on  a  handheld  calculator.  Ottaline  went  outside.  It  was  not  the  cattle  dealer  but  his  son,  Flyby  Amendinger,  big-nostrilled,  heavyset,  a  cleft  in  his  stubbly  chin,  as  quiet  as  three  in  the  morning.  &quot;Mr.  Touhey  around?&quot;  he  asked,  look-  ing  at  his  boots.  &quot;I'm  showin  you  the  stock,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  got  the  flu.  Or  some  kind  a  thing.  We  thought  you  would  come  at  eight.  We  thought  youwas  goin  a  be  your  father.&quot;  &quot;I  missed  a  couple  turns.  Dad's  over  in  Hoyt.&quot;  He  fished  in  his  shirt  pocket,  drew  out  newspaper  clippings,  showed  her  an  ad,  Amendinger  &amp;  Son  Livestock  Dealers.  &quot;I  been  workin  with  Dad  almost  nine  years,  guess  I  got  a  idea  what  I  am  doin  by  now.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  mean  you  didn't,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  glad  it's  you.  Your  dad's  mustache  scares  me.&quot;  She  pictured  him  driving  the  redroads  to  the  ranch,  roads  like  heavy  red  marker  traced  over  the  map,  cutting  the  circle  of  horizon.  &quot;Scare  the  hell  out  a  me,  too,  when  I  was  a  little  kid.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  porch,thehouse,  the  wed-  ding  wheat,  the  blue-door  shed.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Here  we  go.&quot;  &quot;That  wheat  needs  cuttin,&quot;  he  said.  She  drove  and  he  stared  at  the  far  horizon  visible  beneath  the  bel-  lies  of  cows.  They  bounced  over  pas-  ture,  the  dust  in  the  truck  cab  shaken  loose  and  suspended  in  a  fine  spar-  kling  haze  as  though  an  emanation  from  their  private  thoughts  that  might  coalesce  into  audible  statement.  He  opened  the  gates.  Ottaline  thanked  him,  pointed  out  the  good  qualities  of  the  cattle,  the  trim,  heavily  muscled  bod-  ies  on  straight  legs,  the  rib-eye  bulge  on  each  side  of  the  backbone,  their  large  size.  He  murmured  at  a  coarse-  fronted  cow  with  a  steery  look  to  her,  pointed  out  some  small  and  sickle-hocked  steers  with  flat  loins.  He  counted,  made     notes  and  added  figures,  offered  a  fair  price.  &quot;You  are  a  knowledgeable  girl,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  a  damn  good-lookin  one,  though  upholstered.  Care  for  a  beer?&quot;  Ottaline  spent  the  morning  tipping  back  beer  bottles  with  Flyby,  who  de-  scribed  the  lonely  life  of  a  cattle  dealer's  son,  illustrating  his  sad  sentences  with  long,  flat  gestures  of  his  hand.  It  was  noon  when  he  left.  She  gave  the  figures  to  Aladdin  from  the  bedroom  doorway,  hanging  back.  Dazed  and  fiery,  bursting  with  tea,  he  nodded,  said  all  right.  It  was  all  right.  He  did  not  need  a  computer  to  know  the  margin  to  apenny.  It  was  all  right,  and  wasn't  that  a  sad  relief.  He  couldn't  say  as  much  for  himself.  HAT  night  old  Red  woke  from  his  shallow  sleep  to  a  stiff,  whistling  risp  he  dreaded  to  hear.  His  heart  beat,  he  rose  and  felt  his  way  to  the  pantry  window.  The  dirty  moonlight  fizzed  through  shredded  clouds,  glanced  off  a  swinging  scythe  blade,  though  it  was  not  Death  come  for  him  this  time  but  a  man  in  a  dark  hat  cutting  the  wedding  wheat  in  hissing  swathes,  stopping  at  the  end  of  every  row  to  swig  from  a  bot-  tle.  He  saw  his  granddaughter  Otta-  line,  mouth  cracked  wide,  her  hundred  teeth  glinting  like  a  mica  bed,  leaning  against  the  doorframe  of  the  blue-door  shed.  She  hurled  a  piece  of  oily  metal  into  the  sky,  where  it  twisted  and  fell,  stooped  for  another,  sent  it  flying.  Old  Red  watched,  summed  it  up.  &quot;I  drove  teams.  I  cowboyed.  Worked  since  I  was  a  kid.  Run  sheep  andrun  cows.  Still  present,  fork  end  down,  ready  as  a  dog  with  two  dicks.  I  ain't  finished  my  circle  yet.&quot;  Tyler  and  Shan  were  far  away  hoping  for  good  luck,  but  here  was  Ottaline  and  her  haymaker.  He  wouldn't  waste  his  dear  breath  laughing.  THERE  was  a  wedding  in  September  and  a  tremendous  picnic  under  the  Amendinger  cattle-sale  canopy,  red  and  white  stripes  that  cast  a  rose  flush,  trestle  tables  in  the  side  yard,  pork  barbecue,  a  baron  of  beef  pit-roasted,  spitted  lamb,  prairie  oysters,  sweet  corn,  giant  shrimp  in  Tyler's  ketchup  sauce,  oven  rolls,  a  keg  of  sour  pickles,  melons,  ripe  [REDACTED]  peaches  made  into  deep-dish  pies,  and  a  three-tier  wedding  cake  with  pale-blue  frosting  topped  by  a  tiny  plastic  bull  and  cow.  The  day  was  hot  and  clear  and  the" b" Red  Wall  trembled  on  the  horizon.  Out  beyond  the  fence  the  stripped  frame  of  the  4030  lay  where  Aladdin  had  dragged  it,  on  its  side  in  the  sagebrush.  Wauneta  wept,  not  for  her  daughter  but  for  the  cut  wheat.  Tyler  inspected  the  ranch,  look-  ing  it  over  with  a  displeased  eye.  Every-  thing  was  smaller  and  shabbier.  Why  had  he  wanted  this?  He  had  a  cell  phone  and  sat  on  his  horse  talking  to  someone  far  away.  Wauneta  told  Shan  she  intended  to  come  out  to  556e6974656420537461746573and  visit  one  of  these  days.  &quot;Not  if  I  got  somethin  to  say  about  it,&quot;  said  Aladdin.  The  guests  dragged  the  folding  chairs  back  and  forth,  and  when  Ottaline  smoothed  the  rayon  satin  of  her  dress  over  her  knees  she  felt  the  grit,  saw  the  glinting  dust  caught  in  the  weft.  A  spot  of  barbecue  sauce  marked  the  bosom.  At  last  she  changed  into  the  new  aqua-  marine  pants  suit  and  drove  away  with  Flyby  Amendinger  for  a  four-day  honey  moon  among  the  motels  of  [REDACTED].  HERE  wheat  once  grew  a  row  of  doghouses  stood.  There  were  two  trucks  in  the  driveway.  Old  Red  in  his  pantry  wished  for  deafness  when  the  bedsprings  sang  above.  Otherwise  all  was  the  same.  Aladdin  applied  for  a  bank  loan  for  another  plane.  &quot;I  said  if  the  Lord  spared  me  I'd  get  it.&quot;  He  was  dreaming  of  a  1948  Aeronca  Sedan,  a  loose,  big-cabined  thing  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  30,  1998  with  feminine  curves  and  a  split  crankcase  to  be  replaced  with  an  undamaged  one  from  Donald's  Cowboy  Junkyard.  &quot;She's  so  roomy,  ifI  had  to  I  could  put  acouple  calves  in  her,  bales  a  hay,  cake,  just  about  anything,  even  Ottaline,  ha-ha.&quot;  The  bank  approved  the  loan  and  on  a  quiet  and  gray  morning,  the  wind  lying  low,  Aladdin  started  his  truck,  got  halfway  down  the  drive,  backed  up,  parked,  and  came  into  the  kitchen.  Old  Red  dunked  his  toast  in  black  coffee.  &quot;I  am  goin  a  fly  that  plane  home,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  will  land  in  the  Triangle  pas-  ture.  Preciate  it  you  was  all  out  there  watchin.  You,  too,  bubba,&quot;  he  said  to  his  son-in-law.  &quot;I  got  a  go  look  at  Trev's  cows  this  mornin.&quot;  Flyby  Amendinger  did  not  like  living  under  the  thumb  of  Aladdin  Tou-  hey.  In  the  night  he  complained  to  Ot-  taline  that  Aladdin  was  worse  than  his  mustachioed  father.  &quot;My  block  don't  fit  his  tackle,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;It  sure  fits  mine,&quot;  she  whispered  back.  &quot;Call  Trev  up.  Say  you'll  come  a  little  later.  He  won't  give  a  shit.  I  want  a  see  everbody  out  wavin.  Cause  for  celebration  get  a  plane  on  this  damn  place  again.  Goin  ateach  Ottaline  how  to  fly  it.&quot;  It  was  midmorning  when  they  heard  the  drone  of  the  engine.  &quot;Ma!&quot;  shouted  Ottaline  into  thehouse.  &quot;He's  comin!&quot;  Wauneta  came  outside  and  stood  " b"THE  BUNCHGRASS  EDGE  OF  THE  WORLD  with  Ottaline  and  Flyby  staring  at  the  horizon.  Old  Red  hobbled  onto  the  porch.  The  wind  had  come  up  and  was  gusty  and  chill,  the  distant  line  of  cliff  marking  a  dull  red  break  in  the  sere  plain.  Wauneta  ran  back  into  the  house  for  her  jacket.  The  plane  flew  over  and  headed  to-  ward  the  Red  Wall,  turned,  and  came  again  in  their  direction,  very  much  lower.  It  passed  over  them  twenty  feet  off  the  ground.  Aladdin's  head  was  barely  visi-  ble  in  the  smoke  from  home-grown  that  clouded  the  cabin.  The  plane  soared  up,  shaking  in  the  wind.  It  rose  in  a  steep  climb,  levelled  out,  and  sailed  away.  When  it  was  only  a  distant  speck  it  turned  and  came  toward  the  ranch  again,  curving  and  sliding,  coming  low.  At  a  certain  angle  it  resembled  a  billboard  in  the  sky.  &quot;He  is  actin  up,&quot;  said  Wauneta.  She  watched  the  plane  roar  in  low  like  a  crop  duster.  &quot;I  think  he  is  goin  a  land,&quot;  said  Flyby,  &quot;or  take  a  soil  sample.  Or  stake  out  a  homestead.&quot;  &quot;He  is  actin  up.  I  know  him.  you  GET  DOWN  HERE!&quot;  Wauneta  shouted  at  the  plane.  As  though  obeying  her,  it  touched  the  ground,  sending  up  a  puff  of  dust,  bounced  back  into  the  air,  and  made  two  more  prodigious  hops  before  the  left  wheel  caught  the  iron  frame  of  the  abandoned  tractor  and  the  plane  fell  on  its  face,  crumpled  into  a  mash  of  cloth,  metal,  and  rancher.  There  was  an  explo-  sion  like  a  mighty  backfire,  but  no  flame.  A  ball  of  dust  rose.  Flyby  dragged  Aladdin  to  safe  ground.  His  father-in-law's  head  lolled  at  an  un-  usual  angle.  &quot;He  is  dead,  I  think.  I  think  he  is  dead.  Yes,  he  is  dead.  His  neck  is  broke.&quot;  Wauneta  shrieked.  &quot;Look  what  you  done,&quot;  said  Ottaline  to  her.  &quot;You  killed  him.&quot;  &quot;Me!  That's  what  cuttin  the  wheat's  done.&quot;  &quot;He  done  it  hisself,&quot;  called  old  Red  from  the  porch.  It  was  clear  to  him  the  way  things  had  to  go.  They'd  plant  Alad-  din.  Ottaline  and  her  scytheman  would  run  the  ranch.  Wauneta  would  pack  her  suitcase  and  steer  for  the  slot  machines.  The  minute  she  was  out  of  sight  he  in-  tended  to  move  out  of  the  pantry  and  back  upstairs.  The  main  thing  in  life  was  staying  power.  That  was  it:  stand  around  long  enough  you'd  get  to  sit  down."