 b"LREADY  it  is  ninety  humid  degrees  A  in  the  shade  of  the  mango  trees  that  border  each  side  of  the  road  to  Angkor  Wat.  Overhead,  the  sky  is  bleached  white  from  the  heat.  I  feel  a  drop  of  sweat  slide  down  the  in-  side  of  my  arm,  and  my  cotton  skirt  is  stuck  to  the  plastic  seat  of  the  pedicab.  The  pedicab  driver,  his  narrow  back  hunched  over  the  handlebars,  is  ped-  alling  his  bicycle  rapidly  down  the  dirt  road;  the  muscles  in  hiscalves  look  like  the  banyan-tree  roots  that  twine  and  twist  in  the  jungle  here.  I  turn  my  head  FICTION  HOTTER  BY  LILY  TUCK  slightly  to  look  back  at  my  husband,  who  is  sitting  in  another  pedicab,  trail-  ing  three  or  four  yards  behind  us.  The  drivers  gre  racing  each  other.  In  his  high-school  French,  Peter,  my  husband,  explained  how  he  would  pay  the  pedicab  driver  who  won  the  race  twice  the  fare.  Payer  double.  He  also  ges-  tured  with  his  hands.  Now  I  can  hear  him  yelling  encouragement  to  his  driver:  Allez=y,  man!  Go  vite!  I  speak  better  French  than  Peter.  I  spent  my  junior  year  abroad  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  and  French  literature  was  my  major  in  college.  I  wrote  my  thesis  on  the  poet  Rimbaud.  When  I  told  Peter,  he  thought  I'd  said  &quot;Rambo.&quot;  Before  we  came  here,  I  told  Peter  I  was  afraid  that  Angkor  might  bedan-  gerous.  I  told  him  that  I  had  read  how  tourists  were  robbed  at  gunpoint;  that  two  tourists  were  shot.  Peter  answered  that  those  tourists  went  to  visit  out-of-  the-way  sites,  sites  half-buried  in  the  jun-  gle.  We,  on  the  other  hand,  would  visit  only  the  larger  sites,  the  restored  sites.  Peter  also  said,  Who  knows  what  will  happen  next  in  Southeast  Asia?  We     " b"have  to  take  advantage  of  this  window  of  opportunity.  Besides  our  two  pedicabs,  there  is  no  other  traffic  on  the  road  to  Angkor  Wat.  Only  a  woman  dressed  in  aprinted  sarong  is  walking  down  the  road;  she  is  carrying  two  baskets  on  a  long  pole  balanced  across  her  shoulders.  The  baskets  look  heavy  and  bounce  up  and  down  as  she  walks.  The  woman  stops  and  watches  us  go  by.  Bonjour,  Madame!  Without  thinking  about  it,  child-  ishly,  I  cross  my  fingers.  I  hope  that  my  pedicab  driver  wins.  He  is  older  and  thinner  and  looks  more  deserving  than  my  husband's  pedicab  driver.  His  shirt  and  shorts,  although  clean,are  patched  and  worn.  I  imagine  that  he  has  a  wife  who  squats  all  day  fanning  the  coal  flames,  and  too  many  children  who  have  nothing  to  eat  but  rice.  My  pedicab  driver  turns  his  head  slightly  and  looks  back.  Despite  his  strenuous  efforts,  he  is  grinning.  Isit  very  straight  and  very  still.  I  also  keep  my  legs  that  are  damp  with  sweat  tightly  together.  If  I  move  them  apart,  my  legs  make  an  ugly  smacking  noise.  I  think  about  what  I  might  jettison  out  of  the  pedicab  to  lighten  our  load:  mes  soulters?  But  my  sandals  don't  weigh  much  and  my  feet  are  not  as  tough  as  those  of  the  Buddhist  monks  dressed  in  their  saffron  robes  whom  I  see  walking  around  barefoot  all  day.  Mes  bijoux?  My  wedding  ting  is  just  a  thin  band  of  gold  and  probably  weighs  less  than  an  ounce.  The  only  thing  worth  throwing  out,  I  think,  is  the  guidebook,  which  I  hold  tightly  in  my  lap  and  must  weigh  nearly  a  pound.  The  guidebook  would  land  under  the  mango  trees,  in  the  bamboo  thicket  and  among  the  lianas  that  border  the  dirt  road.  Pages  fluttering,  a  few  might  tear  off:  The  palaces  were  built  out  of  wood  and  have  since  disappeared;only  the  religious  edifices  built  out  of  stone  remain.  Peter  says  that  Angkor  is  made  up  of  hard  minerals  in  a  paste  of  sand,  and,  since  water  dissolves  this  paste,  Angkor  will  soon  disintegrate.  Peter  should  know;  he  is  an  engineer.  He  is  building  run-  ways  in  a  town  in  northeast  [REDACTED]  on  the  border  of  Laos.  Louse.  Lay-oss,  he  corrects  me.  Yesterday  afternoon,  during  the  flight  from  [REDACTED]  to  Siem  Reap,  the  plane  strained  and  bucked  through  thick  gray  -  clouds.  Most  of  the  passengers  got  sick;  &amp;  even  the  pretty  Thai  stewardess  got  sick.  2  Moments  before  we  landed  the  sky  fi-  nally  cleared,  and  from  the  plane  win-  dow  spread  out  below  us  I  saw  Angkor  for  the  first  time.  I  had  had  no  idea  that  it  was  so  large,  so  vast.  Angkor  has  a  system  of  canals  and  wa-  terworks  called  &quot;barays&quot;  that  are  as  large  as " b"     lakes,  the  guidebook  says.  The  area  is  over  two  hundred  square  miles  and  once  in-  cluded  six  hundred  monuments.  I  turn  my  head  again  to  have  another  look.  Now  it  seems  as  if  the  pedicab  with  my  husband  in  it  is  catching  up.  The  dis-  tance  between  us  is  only  a  few  feet.  I  am  able  to  read  the  time,  upside  down-  nine-twenty-on  the  watch  around  my  husband's  pedicab  driver's  wrist.  My  husband  is  laughing  as  he  waves  at  me  in  a  familiar  and  triumphant  way.  PERSPIRING  and  stopping  often  to  catch  our  breath,  we  climb  the  nar-  row  steep  crumbling  steps  thatlead  us  up  to  the  three  terraces  of  Angkor  Wat.  Each  step  marks  a  stage  in  the  solar  cycle,  and  the  terrace  represents  the  tiers  of  the  world,  the  guidebook  says.  I  am  in  front  of  Peter,  and,  occasionally,  to  spur  me  on,  he  taps  me  on  the  behind.  Don't,  I  say.  Stop.  Giddyup.  Peter  taps  me  on  the  behind  again  harder.  When  we  reach  the  top  of  the  tem-  ple,  we  have  a  view  of  the  countryside,  which  is  made  up  mainly  of  stone  ruins  and  jungle.  The  stone  ruins  look  like  large  piles  of  bleached  bones,  and  ex-  cept  fora  broken  tower  here  and  there  the  ruins  form  geometric  patterns  squares  within  squares,  within  more  squares.  Rows  of  palm  trees  with  their  high  arching  leaves  mark  ancient  over-  grown  paths  while,  all  around,  the  water  in  the  canals,  the  berays,  lies  stagnant  and  still.  I  see  a  man  fishing  from  the  bank  of  the  farthermost  canal  like  a  dis-  tant  mirage.  The  Thais  sacked  Angkor  in  1431.  Peter  has  the  guidebook  now.  The  Thais  conquered  the  Khmers  and  took  the  women  back  as  slaves.  Slaves,  I  say.  You'd  have  liked  that.  Yeah,  Peter  agrees  as  he  puts  his  arms  around  me  and  draws  me  to  him.  He  holds  me  so  tight  that  I  have  trouble  breathing.  Leaning  down,  he  kisses  me  on  the  lips.  Peter,  no,  I  say.  Why?  There's  no  one  around.  Peter  kisses  me  again.  Hmm,  good.  Salty,  he  says  as  he  kisses  me  on  the  neck.  Peter,  don't,  I  say  again.  Later.  Not  here.  I  can  feel  him  start  to  lift  up  the  back  of  my  skirt.  I  try  to  move  but  Peter  is     THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  21.  1998  holding  me  around  the  waist  andone  of  his  legs  is  wrapped  around  one  of  mine.  I  feel  him  fumble  with  the  elastic  of  my  underpants  at  the  same  time  as  I  can  feel  him  get  an  erection.  Quick,  he  says.  You  must  be  crazy.  I  manage  to  pull  away  from  him.  You  want  me  to  get  pregnant?  Even  here  at  the  top  of  Angkor  Wat,  there  is  not  a  breath  of  wind,not  a  hint  of  a  breeze.  Hot.  With  one  hand,  I  make  a  fan-  ning  motion.  Peter  turns  away  and  does  not  an-  swer  me  right  away.  Damn  right,  he  fi-  nally  says.  When  we  were  first  married,  my  husband  wanted  to  make  love  every  day-sometimes  he  made  love  twice  or  even  three  times-no  matter  where  we  happened  to  be:  in  the  back  seat  of  a  car,  on  a  blanket  in  a  horse  field,  and  once,  inside  a  closet,  knocking  over  shoes.  Now  that  we  have  been  married  nearly  a  year  and  Peter  goes  to  the  town  in  northeast  [REDACTED]  on  the  border  of  Laos  for  a  couple  of  days  every  week,  he  comes  back  tired,  he  says,  and  he  makes  love  less.  This  last  time  when  Peter  came  back  from  the  town  in  northeast  Thai-  land  I  went  through  all  the  clothes  he  had  thrown  into  the  laundry  hamper.  I  took  his  khaki  pants  and  turned  the  pockets  inside  out.  A  few  coins  slid  out  of  one  of  the  pockets;  in  the  other  pocket  I  found  a  matchbook-the  matchbook  cover  advertised  Le  Bam-  bou  Bar-along  with  a  few  wooden  toothpicks  and  a  crumpled  white  nap-  kin.  Carefully,  I  unfolded  the  nap-  kin-would  I  find  a  phone  number?  lipstick?  dried  se-  men?  I  found  nothing.  Next,  I  picked  up  my  husband's  shirt.  The  shirt  smelled  of  gasoline  and  sweat  and  of  Peter's  deodorant.  It  was  still  faintly  damp  and  there  were  yellowish-brown  rings  under  the  arms.  Peter's  underwear  was  quite  clean.  Something  shrieks  as  it  flies  high  above  our  heads.  What  was  that?  In  spite  of  the  heat  I  shiver.  Kingfisher,  Peter  answers.  Who  knows,  I  say.  Maybe,  it's  the  reincarnation  of  King  Jayavarnam.  According  to  my  calculations-his  " b" attempt  now  and  one  last  night  don't  count-Peter  has  not  made  love  to  me  in  eight  days,  in  over  a  week.  ON  the  way  down  the  steep  steps,  I  follow  Peter.  I  also  cling  to  what  remains  of  the  stone  railing  carved  in  the  shape  of  a  snake.  My  leather-soled  sandals  are  slippery  and,  unaccountably,  my  legs  are  shaking.  Along  with  me  and  my  husband,  there  are  two  or  three  other  small  groups  of  tourists.  One  group  is  French,  and  I  can  hear  their  shrill  voices  long  before  I  see  them  standing  in  front  of  a  bas-re-  lief  that  depicts  Vishnu  churning  the  sea  of  milk.  Lz  mer  de  lait,  their  guide  explains-the  ambrosia  that  bestows  immortality.  Im-mor-tel,  a  Frenchwoman  in  a  red  halter  top  repeats  in  a  nasal  voice  and  laughs.  The  Frenchwoman  and  Peter  ex-  change  a  look.  Last  night  when  we  checked  into  the  hotel  in  Siem  Reap  we  forgot  and  left  the  window  open  and  the  light  on  in  our  bedroom,  and  when  we  re-  turned  from  dinner  our  bedroom  was  filled  with  moths.  Not  just  moths,  I  pointed  out  to  my  husband,  but  all  kinds  of  flying  insects  I  had  never  seen  before.  A  lot  of  the  insects  were  caught  in  the  folds  of  the  mosquito  net  that  hung  over  our  bed,  and  even  after  Peter  shook  the  net  out  and  turned  off  the  light  they  remained  clinging  to  it.  Don't  worry,  the  bugs  are  harmless,  he  said  in  bed,  pushing  up  my  nightgown.  No,  Isaid,  pushing  away  his  hand.  My  stomach.  Your  stomach?  What's  wrong  with  your  stomach?  I  don't  know,  I  answered,  turning  away  from  him.  The  noodles  at  dinner,  maybe.  A  we  reach  the  bottom  steps  of  Angkor  Wat,  we  meet  a  Japanese  couple  who  are  on  their  way  up.  The  Japanese  couple  smile  and  move  aside  to  let  us  pass.  Near  the  entrance  gate  of  the  tem-  ple,  a  vender  is  selling  soft  drinks.  Half  a  dozen  bottles  of  Coca-Cola  and  the  orange  drink  Fanta  are  lying  in  a  bucket  of  water.  When  I  pick  up  a  bottle  out  of  the  water,  the  water  is  warm.  Hot,  nearly.  When  the  vender  offers  me  a  straw,  I  shake  my  head.  A  bunch  of  flies  are  swarming  on  the  rim  of  the  glass  that  holds  the  straws.  Sipping  the  Fanta  straight  out  of  the  bottle,  I  walk  beside  my  husband  to  the  next  site.  Tonight,  Peter,  I  tell  him.  We  can  make  love  in  the  hotel  tonight.  Peter  does  not  answer  me.  Two  little  boys  are  following  us:  Hello!  Hello!  Amelican!  One  little  boy  makes  the  sound  of  a  gun  going  off-bang  bang-the  same  sound  in  every  language.  The  other  lit-  tle  boy  has  something  wrong  with  one  eye;  only  the  white  part  shows.  In  802,  King  Jayavarnam  II  founded  Angkor  as  the  seat  of  his  kingdom.  Angkor  comes  from  the  Sanskrit  word  &quot;nagara&quot;  which  means  &quot;city&quot;-I  am  reading  aloud  from  the  guidebook.  Are  you  listen-  ing,  Peter?  In  a  sing-song  voice  and  mimicking  an  Asian  accent,  I  begin  " b" again:  Ankle  koms  flom  se  Sansclit  wold  -  Yeah,  sure.  Bang,  bang.  By  the  side  of  the  road,  slim  columns  of  red  earth  rise  several  feet  high.  They  look  like  sculptures  and  are  the  homes  of  termite  ants.  TWO  rows  of  stone  giants  guard  Angkor  Thom,  the  capital  of  Ang-  kor;  the  giants  wrestle  stone  serpents  in  their  arms.  I'll  take  a  picture  of  you,  Peter  offers.  I  straddle  a  stone  serpent  and  put  my  arms  around  a  stone  giant's  neck.  I  kiss  the  giant  on  the  lips.  Great!  Peter  shouts.  Again!  This  time  a  French  kiss!  Your  turn,  I  say.  Wait  till  I  find  another  one  of  those  dancing  nymphs-what  are  they  called?-  the  ones  with  the  long  skirts  and  naked  tits.  Apsaras.  One  day  when  I  was  not  wearing  a  bra  and,  according  to  Peter,  anyone  who  wanted  to  could  look  down  my  dress  at  my  breasts,  an  insect  of  some  kind-a  bumblebee  maybe  or  a  big  horsefly,  I  never  found  out  which-flew  inside  my  dress  and  in  my  frenzy  I  forgot  that  the  zipper  on  that  particular  dress  was  located  on  the  right  instead  of  the  left  side  and  I  ripped  the  dress  the  whole  length  from  the  sleeve  to  the  hem  trying  to  get  it  off  quickly.  Peter,  who  was  watching,  said  it  served  me  right  for  wearing  a  low-cut  dress  like  that.  Also,  he  said,  it  reminded  him  of  a  story  he  had  heard  once  about  a  World  War  II  pilot  who  had  to  parachute  out  of  his  plane,  but  it  turned  out  that  he  was  left-  handed,  so  that  by  the  time  he  reached  the  ground  he  had  nearly  eviscerated  him-  self  trying  in  vain  to  find  the  rip  cord.  EACH  of  the  fifty  towers  of  the  Bayon  is  topped  with  four  huge  smiling  heads.  The  heads  have  big  lips  and  their  smiles  are  full  of  mystery.  The  heads  are  supposed  to  represent  King  Jayavarnam,  but  they  are  too  beautiful,  I  think.  King  Jayavarnam,  I  read  in  the  guidebook,  was  a  leper  and  became  king  only  when  he  was  in  his  late  sixties.  All  of  a  sudden,  as  I  am  looking  up  at  the  huge  heads,  I  feel  dizzy.  Nauseated,  too.  Except  for  the  bottle  of  Fanta,  I  have  not  drunk  or  eaten  anything  since  the  noodles  at  dinner  yesterday-not  even  the  glass  of  weak  tea  that  was  left  in  our  hotel  bedroom,  which  I  used  instead  to  brush  my  teeth.  I  sit  down.  I  put  my  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  21,  1998  head  between  my  knees  the  way  I  know  people  who  feel  faint  are  supposed  to.  I  have  been  careful-the  one  time,  on  a  trip  to  Chiang  Mai,  I  forgot  to  bringalong  my  diaphragm  and  we  had  sex,  Peter  came  in  my  mouth  instead-  and  I  always  use  some  form  of  protec-  tion,  but  should  I  get  pregnant  here  Peter  has  promised  me  that  I  can  go  home.  I  can  stay  with  my  parents,  he  has  said,  and  wait  there  for  the  baby.  Some-  times  at  night,  after  we  have  finished  making  love  and  Peter  has  already  turned  over  and  I  can  hear  him  snoring  lightly  and  I  am  too  hot  still  and  cannot  sleep,  I  try  to  imagine  that  the  geckos  I  hear  crawling  on  the  window  screens  are  crickets.  I  try  to  imagine  that  the  frangi-  pani  tree  outside  the  bedroom  window  with  its  cloying,  too  sweet  blossoms  is  the  sturdy  maple  tree  in  my  parents'  gar-  den.  I  try  to  imagine  what  it  would  be  like  to  sleep  under  a  warm  goose-down  quilt  in  a  single  bed  again,  what  it  would  be  like  to  feel  cool,  cold  even.  But  trying  to  imagine  this  always  defeats  me.  What  are  you  doing  anyway,  Anne?  Peter  asks.  He  is  frowning.  He  is  sitting  on  top  of  a  fallen  pillar,  and  has  taken  off  one  of  his  sneakers.  Nothing,  I  answer.  I  got  bitten  by  something,  he  says.  He  holds  up  his  foot  to  me.  See.  It  hurts  like  hell,  he  says.  A  red  ant.  Maybe  the  ant  is  the  reincarnation  of  King  Jayavarnam-I  start  again.  Anne!  Do  you  mind  shutting  up  about  King  Jaya-what's-his-face?  It  takes  only  a  dozen  orso  of  these  ant  bites  to  kill  an  average-size  man.  Hotter.  A  blue  butterfly  hovers  and  alights  for  a  moment  on  one  of  the  stone  head's  big  smiling  lips.  Him!  I  think.  S  we  are  leaving  Angkor  Thom,  I  look  over  my  shoulder.  Can  you  quit  that?  Peter  says.  You're  giving  me  the  creeps.  The  next  temple  isn't  far.  Just  over  there.  The  path  has  turned  into  an  over-  grown  track  full  of  ruts;  in  some  places  we  have  to  walk  single  file.  I  try  to  stay  within  Peter's  diminishing  shadow;  I  try  tostep  on  his  back,  on  his  head.  I  don't  know.  It  looks  kind  of  deserted  here.  What's  it  called?  I  ask  as  I  look  up  the  site  in  the  guidebook.  Preah  Khan.  " b"HOTTER  Preah  Khan?  The  guidebook  says  that  Preah  Khan  is  not  one  of  the  restored  sites,  I  tell  my  husband.  Preah  Khan  is  an  unrestored  site.  I  don't  see  anyone  else  going  there,  I  also  tell  him.  I'm  worried-  Anne,  that's  your  trouble.  Peter  stops  for  a  moment  and  puts  his  arm  around  me.  Relax,  will  you.  I  shrug  his  arm  off.  During  my  junior  year  abroad,  I  went  to  Normandy  with  a  boy  named  Jean-  Claude.  Jean-Claude  and  I  took  the  train  from  [REDACTED]  to  Cherbourg,  and  there  we  rented  bicycles.  We  planned  to  cycle  along  the  coast,  camp  out  in  farmers'  fields,  and  look  at  the  beaches.  The  first  day,  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  we  clambered  on  top  of  an  abandoned  rusty  tank,  then  Jean-Claude  climbed  down  inside  one  of  the  bunkers.  I  remember  how  I  would  not  go  with  him,  I  said  I  was  afraid  of  a  live  grenade  still.  Jean-Claude  stayed  in  the  bunker  for  such  a  long  time  that  I  began  to  worry  about  him.  When,  finally,  he  emerged,  we  walked  back  up  the  beach  to  where  there  was  a  monument.  The  monument  was  in  the  shape  of  an  obelisk  and  was  set  on  top  of  some  granite  steps;  the  granite  was  warm  from  the  sun  and  we  sat  down.  Also,  by  then  we  were  hungry.  Jean-Claude  and  I  opened  our  backpacks  and  spread  out  the  salami,  bread,  cheese,  and  wine  we  had  bought  for  lunch.  After  we  had  eaten  the  bread,  salami,  and  cheese  and  drunk  the  wine,  we  lay  down  on  the  steps  and  Jean-  Claude  began  to  kiss  me.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  I  still  remember  how  Jean-Claude's  kisses  tasted  of  warm  red  wine,  rust,  and  the  sea.  Then,  just  as  Jean-Claude  was  starting  to  unbutton  my  blouse,  I  heard  someone  run  up  the  granite  steps  and  yell  at  us:  Mais,  alors!  Nawvez  vous  aucun  respect  pour  les  morts!  HE  Gate  of  Victory,  the  name  of  the  gate  through  which  we  enter,  is  surmounted  by  a  tower  with  four  more  smiling  heads  of  King  Jayavarnam.  A  banyan  tree  has  grown  over  the  tower  and  a  tangled  network  of  roots  and  branches  has  completely  encircled  the  huge  stone  heads-breaking  off  a  nose,  mashing  an  ear,  blinding  an  eye,  turning  the  smile  of  theold  leper  king  intoa  sneer.  Look.  Peter  points.  You  can  see  the  brick  underneath  the  sandstone.  You  can  ~see  the  original  corbelling.  Inside  the  unrestored  temple,  we  have  to  step  over  fallen  lintels,  stones,  pillars.  Another  banyan  tree  has  spread  its  roots,  cracking  the  floor,  toppling  the  roof.  See  the  original  what?  I  ask,  as  a  troop  of  gibbons  leaps  into  the  branches  directly  over  our  heads;  the  gibbons  shake  the  foliage  and  chatter  down  at  us.  Whoop,  whoop,  whoop.  Something  small  and  hard  hits  me  on  the  cheek.  Hey!  Then  more  nuts  start  torain  down,  hitting  me  and  my  husband.  Peter  leans  down  on  the  ground  and  picks  up  a  handful  of  nuts;  he  starts  throwing  the  nuts  back  at  the  gibbons.  Goddam  monkeys!  he  yells.  ON  the  way  back  to  Siem  Reap  in  the  pedicabs-this  time  the  drivers  are  pedalling  slowly  and  not  rac-  ing  each  other-we  suddenly  hear  yelp-  ing.  The  yelping  comes  from  the  bam-  boo  thickets  and  lianas  that  border  the  side  of  the  road  and  to  me  it  sounds  pitiful  and  like  a  baby  crying  almost.  Stop!  I  lean  forward  and  tell  the  pedicab  driver.  Arr\xc3\xa9tex!  We  have  to  stop!  Likewise,  my  husband  mo-  tions  to  his  pedicab  driver  and  we  both  get  out  of  the  pedicabs.  Be  careful,  I  say.  Our  drivers  do  not  appear  concerned;  my  pedicab  driver  is  cleaning  his  ear  with  his  finger-  nail-the  pinkie  fingernail  grown  long  expressly  for  that  purpose.  Oh,  God!  As  if  to  stop  me,  my  husband  holds  out  his  hand.  What  is  it?  I  ask.  It  takes  me  several  seconds  to  understand  what  I  am  looking  at:  two  mongrel  dogs  are  stuck  together.  The  male  dog  is  making  awkward  plung-  ing  motions  while  the  female  dog  has  got  herself  grotesquely  twisted  around  and  is  being  dragged  along  on  her  bony  back;  between  her  legs,  what  is  visible  of  the  mile  dog's  penis  is  a  glistening  bright  red.  Once  again,  I  feel  dizzy.  I  can  taste  the  Fanta  rising  up  in  my  throat.  In  their  frenzy,  both  dogs  are  also  biting  at  each  other.  The  female  dog,  |  |  the  dog  that  is  being  dragged  on  her  back,  I  notice,  has  bitten  herself.  Her  tongue  is  full  of  little  marks,  little  bloody  tooth  marks.  The  yelping  we  heard,  however,  has  stopped.  "