In 4368696e61  peo-  ple  say  mixed  children  are  supposed  to  be  smart,  and  definitely  my  @  s  granddaugh-  ter  Sophie  is  smart.  But  Sophie  is  wild,  Sophie  is  not  like  my  daughter,  Natalie,  or  like  me.  I  am  work  hard  my  whole  life,  and  fierce  besides.  My  husband  al-  ways  used  to  say  he  is  afraid  of  me,  and  in  our  restaurant  busboys  and  cooks  all  afraid  of  me,  too.  Even  the  gang  mem-  bers  come  for  protection  money,  they  try  to  talk  to  my  husband.  When  I  am  there,  they  stay  away.  If  they  come  by  mistake,  they  pretend  they  are  come  to  eat.  They  hide  behind  the  menu,  they  order  a  lot  of  food.  They  talk  about  their  mothers.  Oh,  my  mother  have  some  ar-  thritis,  need  to  takeherbal  medicine,  they  say.  Oh,  my  mother  getting  old,  her  hair  all  white  now.  I  say,  Your  mother's  hair  used  to  be  white,  but  since  she  dye  it,  it  is  black  again.  Why  don't  you  go  home  once  in  a  while  and  take  a  look?  I  tell  them,  Con-  fucius  says  a  filial  son  knows  what  color  his  mother's  hair  is.  My  daughter  is  fierce,  too,  she  is  vice-president  in  the  bank  now.  Her  new  house  is  big  enough  for  everybody  to  have  their  own  room,  including  me.  But  Sophie  take  after  Natalie's  hus-  band's  family,  their  name  is  Shea.  Irish.  I  always  thought  Irish  people  are  like  the  Chinese,  work  so  hard  on  the  rail-  road,  but  now  I  know  why  the  Chinese  beat  the  Irish.  Of  course,  not  all  Irish  are  like  the  Shea  family,  of  course  not.  My  daughter  says  I  shouldnot  say  the  Irish  this,  the  Irish  that.  How  do  you  like  it  when  people  say  the  Chinese  this,  the  Chinese  that,  she  says.  You  know,  the  British  call  the  Irish  heathen,  just  like  they  call  the  Chinese,  she  says.     7  |  \  FICTION  WHO'S  IRISH?  An  556e6974656420537461746573n  education.     BYGISH  JEN  You  think  the  Opium  War  was  bad,  how  would  you  like  to  live  right  next  door  to  the  British,  she  says.  And  that  is  that.  My  daughter  has  a  funny  habit  when  she  win  an  argument,  she  take  a  sip  of  something  and  look  away,  so  the  other  person  is  not  embar-  rassed.  So  I  am  not  embarrassed.  1  do  not  call  anybody  anything,  either.  I  just  hap-  pen  to  mention  about  the  Shea  family,  an  interesting  fact:  four  brothers  in  the  family,  and  not  one  of  them  work.  The  mother,  Bess,  has  a  job  before  she  got  sick,  she  was  executive  secretary  ina  big  company.  She  is  handle  everything  for  a  big  shot,  you  would  be  surprised  how  complicated  her  job  is,  not  just  type  this,  type  that.  Now  she  is  anice  woman  with  a  clean  house.  But  her  boys,  every  one  of  them  is  on  welfare,  or  so-called  severance  pay,  or  so-called  disability  pay.  Something.  They  say  they  cannot  find  any  work,  this  is  not  the  economy  of  the  fifties,  but  Isay,  Even  the  black  people  doing  better  these  days,  some  of  them  live  so  fancy,  you'd  be  surprised.  Why  the  Shea  family  have  so  much  trouble?  They  are  white  people,  they  speak  English.  When  I  come  to  this  country,  I  have  no  money  and  do  not  speak  English.  But  my  husband  and  I  own  our  restaurant  before  he  die.  Free  and  clear,  no  mortgage.  Of  course,  I  under-  stand  I  am  just  lucky,  come  from  a  coun-  try  where  the  food  is  popular  all  over  the  world.  I  understand  it  is  not  the  Shea  family's  fault  they  come  from  a  country  where  everything  is  boiled.  Still,  Isay.  She's  right,  we  should  broaden  our  ho-  rizons,.  says  one  brother,  Jim,  at  Thanks-  giving.  Forget  about  the  car  business.  Think  about  egg  rolls.  Pad  thai,  says  another  brother,  Mike.  I'm  going  to  make  my  fortune  in  pad  thai.  It's  going  to  be  the  new  pizza.  I  say,  You  people  too  picky  about  what  you  sell.  Selling  egg  rolls  not  good  enough  for  you,  but  at  least  my  husband  and  I  can  say,  We  made  it.  What  can  you  say?  Tell  me.  What  can  you  say?  Everybody  chew  their  tough  turkey.  I  especially  cannot  understand  my  daughter's  husband,  John,  who  has  no  job  but  cannot  take  care  of  Sophie,  either.  Be-  cause  he  is  a  man,  he  says,  and  that's  the  end  of  the  sentence.  [REDACTED]  boiled  food,  plain  boiledthink-  ing.  Even  his  name  is  plain  boiled:  John.  Maybe  because  I  grew  up  with  black-  bean  sauce  and  hoisin  sauce  and  garlic  sauce,  1  always  feel  something  is  missing  when  my  son-in-law  talk.  But,  O.K.;  so  my  son-in-law  can  be  man,  I  am  babysitter.  Six  hours  a  day,  same  as  theold  sitter,  crazy  Amy,  who  quit.  This  is  not  so  easy,  now  that  I  am  sixty-  eight,  Chinese  age  almost  seventy.  Still,  I  try.  In  4368696e61,  daughter  take  care  of  mother.  Here  it  is  the  other  way  around.  Mother  help  daughter,  mother  ask,  Anything  else  I  can  do?  Otherwise  daughter  complain  mother  is  not  supportive.  I  tell  my  daugh-  ter,  We  do  not  have  this  word  in  Chinese,  supportive.  But  my  daughter  too  busy  to  listen,  shehas  to  go  to  meeting,  shehas  to  write  memo  while  her  husband  go  to  the  gym  to  be  a  man.  My  daughter  says  oth-  erwise  he  will  be  depressed.  Seems  like  all  his  life  he  has  this  trouble,  depression.  No  one  wants  to  hire  someone  who  is  depressed,  she  says.  It  is  important  for  him  to  keep  his  spirits  up.  Beautiful  wife,  beautiful  daughter,  beautiful  house,  oven  can  clean  itself  au-  tomatically.  No  money  left  over,  because  only  one  income,  but  lucky  enough,  got  the  babysitter  for  free.  If  John  lived  in  4368696e61,  he  would  bevery  happy.  But  he  is  not  happy.  Even  at  the  gym  things  go  wrong.  One  day  he  pull  a  muscle.  An-  other  day,  weight  room  too  crowded.  Al-  ways  something.  Until  finally,  hooray,  he  has  a  job.  Then  he  feel  pressure.  I  need  to  concentrate,  he  says.I  need  to  focus.  He  is  going  to  work  for  insurance  company.  Salesman  job.  A  paycheck,  he  says,  and  at  least  he  will  wear  clothes  in-  FILIP  PAGOWSKI  stead  of  gym  shorts.  My  daughter  buy  him  some  special  candy  bars  from  the  health-food  store.  They  say  THINK!  on  them,  and  are  supposed  to  help  John  think.  John  is  a  good-looking  boy,  you  have  to  say  that,  especially  now  that  he  shave  so  you  can  see  his  face.  I  am  an  old  man  in  a  young  man's  game,  says  John.  I  will  need  a  new  suit,  says  John.  This  time  I  am  not  going  to  shoot  my-  self  in  the  foot,  says  John.  Good,  I  say.  She  means  to  be  supportive,  my  daugh-  ter  says.  Don't  start  the  send-her-back-to-  4368696e61  thing  because  we  can't.  OPHIE  is  three  years  old  556e6974656420537461746573n  age,  but  already  I  see  her  nice  Chinese  side  swallowed  up  by  her  wild  Shea  side.  She  looks  like  mostly  Chinese.  Beautiful  black  hair,  beautiful  black  eyes.  Nose  per-  fect  size,  not  so  flat  looks  like  something  fell  down,  not  so  large  looks  like  some  big  deal  got  stuck  in  wrong  face.  Everything  just  right,  only  her  skin  is  a  brown  sur-  prise  to  John's  family.  So  brown,  they  say.  Even  John  says  it.  She  never  goes  in  the  sun,  still  she  is  that  color,  he  says.  Brown.  They  say,  Nothing  the  matter  with  brown,  they  are  just  surprised.  So  brown.  Nattie  is  not  that  brown,  they  say.  They  say,  It  seems  like  Sophie  should  be  a  color  in  be-  tween  Nattie  and  John.  Seems  funny,  a  girl  named  Sophie  Shea  be  brown.  But  she  is  brown,  maybe  her  name  should  be  Sophie  Brown.  Nothing  the  matter  with  brown,  they  are  just  surprised.  The  Shea  family  talk  is  like  this  some-  times,  going  around  and  around  like  a  Christmas-tree  train.  Maybe  John  is  not  her  father,  I  say  one  day,  to  stop  the  train.  And  sure  enough,  train  wreck.  None  of  the  brothers  ever  say  the  word  brown  to  me  again.  Instead  John's  mother,  Bess,  says,  I  hope  you  are  not  offended.  She  says,  I  did  my  best  on  those  boys.  But  raising  four  boys  with  no  father  is  no  picnic.  You  have  a  beautiful  family,  I  say.  I'm  getting  old,  she  says.  You  deserve  a  rest,  I  say.  Too  many  boys  make  you  old.  I  never  had  a  daughter,  she  says.  You  have  a  daughter.  I  have  a  daughter,  I  say.  The  Chinese  don't  think  a  daughter  is  so  great,  but  you're  right.  I  have  a  daughter.  I  never  was  against  the  marriage,  you  know,  she  says.I  never  thought  John  was  marrying  down.  I  always  thought  Nattie  was  just  as  good  as  white.  I  was  never  against  the  marriage  either,  I  say.  I  just  wonder  if  they  look  at  the  whole  problem.  Because  of  the  whole  problem,  she  sighs.  Exactly,  I  say.  Of  course,  you  pointed  out  the  prob-  lem,  you  are  a  mother,  she  says.  And  now  we  both  have  a  granddaughter.  A  little  brown  granddaughter,  she  is  so  precious  to  me.  I  laugh.  A  little  brown  granddaughter,  I  say.  To  tell  you  the  truth,  I  don't  know  how  she  came  out  so  brown.  We  laugh  some  more.  These  days  Bess  need  a  walker  to  walk.  She  take  so  many  pills  she  need  two  glasses  of  water  to  get  them  all  down.  Her  favorite  TV  show  is  all  about  bloopers,  and  she  love  her  bird  feeder.  All  day  long,  she  can  watch  that  bird  feeder,  like  a  cat.  I  can't  wait  for  Sophie  to  grow  up,  Bess  says.  I  could  use  some  female  company.  Too  many  boys,  I  say.  Boys  are  fine,  she  says.  But  they  do  surround  you  after  a  while.  You  should  take  a  break,  come  live  with  us,  I  say.  Lots  of  girls  at  our  house.  Be  careful  what  you  offer,  says  Bess,  with  a  wink.  Where  I  come  from,  people  mean  for  you  to  move  in  when  they  say  a  thing  like  that.  NOTHING  the  matter  with  Sophie's  outside,  that's  the  truth.  It  is  inside  that  she  is  not  like  any  Chinese  girl  I  ever  see.  We  go  to  the  park,  and  this  is  what  she  does.  She  stand  up  in  the  stroller.  She  take  off  all  her  clothes  and  throw  them  in  the  fountain.  Sophie!  I  say.  Stop!  But  she  just  laugh  like  a  crazy  person.  Before  I  take  over  as  babysitter,  Sophie  has  that  crazy-person  sitter,  Amy  the  gui-  tar  player.  My  daughter  thought  this  Amy  very  creative-another  word  we  do  not  talk  about  in  4368696e61.  In  4368696e61  we  talk  about  whether  we  have  difficulty  or  no  difficulty.  We  talk  about  whether  life  is  bitter  or  not  bitter.  In  [REDACTED],  all  day  long,  people  talk  about  creative,  never  mind  that  I  cannoteven  look  atthis  Amy,  with  her  shirt  so  short  that  her  belly  button  showing.  This  Amy  think  Sophie  should  love  her  body.  So  when  Sophie  take  off  her  diaper,  Amy  laugh.  When  Sophierun  81  around  naked,  Amy  says  she  wouldn't  want  to  wear  a  diaper,  either.  When  Sophie  go  shz-shu  in  her  lap,  Amy  laugh  and  says  there  are  no  germs  in  pee.  When  Sophie  take  off  her  shoes,  Amy  says  bare  feet  is  best,  even  the  pediatrician  says  so.  That  is  why  Sophie  now  walk  around  with  no  shoes  like  a  beggar  child.  Also  why  Sophie  love  to  take  off  her  clothes.  Turn  around!  say  the  boys  in  the  park.  Let's  see  that  ass!  Of  course,  Sophie  does  not  under-  stand.  Sophie  clap  her  hands,  I  am  the  only  one  to  say,  No!  This  is  not  a  game.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  John's  family,  my  daughter  says.  Amy  was  too  permis-  sive,  that's  all.  But  I  think  if  Sophie  was  not  wild  in-  side  she  would  not  take  off  her  shoes  and  diaper  to  begin  with.  You  never  take  off  your  clothes  when  you  were  little,  Isay.  All  my  Chinese  friends  had  babies,  I  never  saw  one  of  them  act  wild  like  that.  Look,  my  daughter  says.  I  have  a  big  presentation  tomorrow.  John  and  my  daughter  agree  Sophie  is  a  problem,  but  they  don't  know  what  to  do.  You  spank  her,  she'll  stop,  I  say  an-  other  day.  But  they  say,  Oh,  no.  In  Ameri-  ca,  parents  not  supposed  to  spank  the  child.  It  gives  them  low  self-esteem,  my  daughter  says.  And  that  leads  to  problems  later,  as  I  happen  to  know.  My  daughter  never  have  big  presenta-  tion  the  next  day  when  the  subject  of  spanking  come  up.  I  don't  want  you  to  touch  Sophie,  she  says.  No  spanking,  period.  Don't  tell  me  what  to  do,  I  say.  I'm  not  telling  you  what  to  do,  says  my  daughter.  But  I  am  telling  you  how  I  feel.  I  am  not  your  servant,  I  say.  I  am  sup-  portive.  Don't  you  dare  talkto  me  like  that.  My  daughter  has  another  funny  habit  when  she  loses  an  argument.  She  spread  out  all  her  fingers  and  look  at  them,  as  if  she  like  to  make  sure  they  are  still  there.  My  daughter  is  fierce  like  me,  but  she  and  John  think  it  is  better  to  explain  to  Sophie  that  clothes  are  a  good  idea.  This  is  not  so  hard  in  the  cold  weather.  In  the  warm  weather,  itis  very  hard.  Use  your  words,  my  daughter  82  says.  That's  what  we  tell  Sophie.  How  about  you  set  a  good  example.  As  if  good  example  mean  anything  to  Sophie.  I  am  so  fierce,  the  gang  mem-  bers  who  used  to  come  to  the  restaurant  all  afraid  of  me,  but  Sophie  is  not  afraid.  I  say,  Sophie,  if  you  take  off  your  clothes,  no  snack.  I  say,  Sophie,  if  you  take  off  your  clothes,  no  lunch.  I  say,  Sophie,  if  you  take  off  your  clothes,  no  park.  Pretty  soon  we  are  stay  home  all  day,  and  by  the  end  of  six  hours  she  still  did  not  have  one  thing  to  eat.  You  never  saw  a  child  stubborn  like  that.  I'm  hungry,  she  ery  when  my  daugh-  ter  come  home.  What's  the  matter,doesn't  your  grand-  mother  feed  you?  laugh  my  daughter.  No!  Sophie  says.  She  doesn't  feed  me  anything!  My  daughter  laugh  again.  Here  you  go,  she  says.  She  says  to  John,  Sophie  must  be  growing.  Growing  like  a  weed,  I  say.  Still  Sophie  take  off  her  clothes,  until  one  day  I  spank  her.  Not  too  hard,  but  she  ery  and  cry,  and  when  I  tell  her  if  she  doesn't  put  her  clothes  back  on  I'll  spank  her  again,  she  put  her  clothes  back  on.  Then  I  tell  her  she's  a  good  girl,  and  give  her  some  food  to  eat.  The  next  day  we  go  to  the  park,  and,  like  a  nice  Chi-  nese  girl,  she  does  not  take  off  her  clothes.  She  stop  taking  off  her  clothes,  I  re-  port.  Finally!  How  did  you  do  it?  my  daughter  ask.  After  thirty-five  years'  experience  with  you,  I  guess  I  learn  something,  I  say.  It  must  have  been  a  phase,  John  says,  and  his  voice  is  suddenly  like  an  expert.  His  voice  is  like  an  expert  about  ev-  erything  these  days,  now  that  he  carry  a  leather  briefcase,  and  wear  shiny  shoes,  and  can  go  shopping  for  a  new  car.  On  the  company,  he  says.  The  company  will  pay  for  it,  but  he  will  be  able  to  drive  it  whenever  he  wants.  A  free  car,  he  says,  how  do  you  like  that.  It's  good  to  see  you  in  the  saddle  again,  my  daughter  says.  Also  she  says,  a  little  later,  Some  ofyour  family  patterns  are  scary.  At  least  I  don't  drink,  he  says.  He  says,  And  I'm  not  the  only  one  with  scary  family  patterns.  That's  for  sure,  says  my  daughter.  VERYONE  is  happy.  Even  I  am  happy,  because  there  is  more  trouble  with  Sophie,  but  now  I  think  I  can  help  her  Chinese  side  fight  against  her  wild  side.  I  teach  her  to  eat  food  with  a  fork  or  spoon,  she  cannot  just  grab  into  the  middle  of  a  bowl  of  noodles.  I  teach  her  not  to  play  with  garbage  cans.  Sometimes  I  spank  her,  butnot  too  often,  and  not  too  hard.  YOUR  Goop  INTENTIONS  AT  WORK     THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  14.  1998  Still,  there  are  problems.  Sophie  like  to  climb  everything.  If  there  is  a  railing,  she  is  never  next  to  it.  Always  she  is  on  top  of  it.  Also,  Sophie  like  to  hit  the  mom-  miesof  her  friends.  She  learn  this  from  her  playground  best  friend,  Sinbad,  who  is  four.  Sinbad  wear  Army  clothes  every  day  and  like  to  ambush  his  mommy.  He  is  the  one  who  dug  a  big  hole  under  the  play  structure,  a  foxhole  he  call  it,  all  by  himself.  Very  hardworking.  Now  he  wait  in  the  foxhole  with  ashovel  full  of  wet  sand,  and  when  his  mommy  come  he  throw  it  right  ather.  Oh,  it's  all  right,  his  mommy  says.  You  can't  get  rid  of  war  games,  it's  part  of  their  imaginative  play.  All  the  boys  go  through  it.  Also,  he  like  to  kick  his  mommy,  and  one  day  he  tell  Sophie  to  kick  his  mommy,  too.  I  wish  this  story  is  not  true.  Kick  her,  kick  her!  Sinbad  says.  Sophie  kick  her.  A  little  kick,  as  if  she  just  happened  to  be  swinging  her  little  leg  and  didn't  realize  that  big  mommy  leg  was  in  the  way.  Still  I  spank  Sophie  and  make  Sophie  say  she  is  sorry,  and  what  does  the  mommy  say?  Really,  it's  all  right,  she  says.  It  didn't  hurt.  After  that  Sophie  learn  she  can  attack  mommies  in  the  playground,  and  some  will  say,  Stop,  but  others  will  say,  Oh,  she  didn't  mean  it,  especially  if  they  real-  ize  Sophie  will  be  punished.  This  is  how,  one  day,  big-  ger  trouble  come.  The  bigger  trouble  start  when  Sophie  hide  in  the  foxhole  with  that  shovel  full  of  sand.  She  wait,  and  when  I  come  look  for  hershe  throw  it  at  me.  All  over  my  nice  clean  clothes.  Did  you  ever  see  a  Chinese  girl  act  this  way?  Sophie!  1  say.  Come  out  of  there,  say  you're  sorry.  But  she  does  not  come  out.  Instead,  she  laugh.  Naaah,  naah-na,  naah-nagh,  she  says.  I  am  not  exaggerate:  mil-  Tions  of  children  in  4368696e61,  not  one  act  like  this.  Sophie!  I  say.  Now!  Come  out  now!  But  she  know  she  is  in  big  trouble.  She  know  if  she  come  out  what  will  happen  next.  So  she  does  not  come  out.  I  am     WHOS  IRISH?  sixty-eight,  Chinese  age  almost  seventy,  how  can  I  crawl  under  there  to  catch  her?  Impossible.  So  1  yell,  yell,  yell,  and  what  happen?  Nothing.  A  Chinese  mother  would  help,  but  556e6974656420537461746573n  mothers,  they  look  at  you,  they  shake  their  head,  they  go  home.  And,  of  course,  a  Chinese  child  would  give  up,  but  not  Sophie.  I  hate  you!  she  yell.  I  hate  you,  Meanie!  Meanie  is  my  new  name  these  days.  Long  time  this  goes  on,  long  long  time.  The  foxhole  is  deep,  you  cannot  see  too  much,  you  don't  know  where  is  the  bottom.  You  cannot  hear  too  much,  either.  If  she  does  not  yell  you  cannot  even  know  she  is  still  there  or  not.  After  a  while,  getting  cold  out,  getting  dark  out,  there  is  no  one  left  in  the  play-  ground,  only  us.  Sophie,  I  say.  How  did  you  become  stubborn  like  this?  I  am  go  home  with-  out  you  now.  I  try  to  use  a  stick,  chase  her  out  of  there,  and  once  or  twice  I  hit  her,  but  still  she  does  not  come  out.  So  finally  I  leave.  I  go  outside  the  gate.  Bye-bye!  I  say.  I'm  go  home  now.  But  still  she  does  not  come  out  and  does  not  come  out.  Now  it  is  dinnertime,  the  sky  is  black.  I  think  I  should  maybe  go  get  help,  but  how  can  I  leave  a  little  girl  by  herself  in  the  playground?  A  bad  man  could  come.  A  rat  could  come.  I  go  back  into  see  what  is  happen  to  Sophie.  What  if  she  has  a  shovel  and  is  making  a  tunnel  to  escape?  Sophie!  I  say.  No  answer.  Sophie!  I  don't  know  if  she  is  alive,  I  don't  know  if  she  is  fall  asleep  down  there.  If  she  is  crying  I  cannot  hear  her.  So  I  take  the  stick  and  poke.  Sophie!  I  say.  I  promise  I  no  hit  you.  If  you  come  out,  I  give  you  a  lollipop.  No  answer.  By  now  I  worried,  wor-  ried.  What  to  do,  what  to  do,  What  to  do?  I  poke  some  more,  even  harder,  so  that  I  am  poking  and  poking  when  my  daughter  and  John  suddenly  appear.  What  are  you  doing?  What  is  going  on?  says  my  daughter.  Put  down  that  stick!  says  my  daughter.  You  are  crazy!  says  my  daughter.  John  wiggle  under  the  structure,  into  the  foxhole,  to  rescue  Sophie.  She  fell  asleep,  says  John  the  ex-  pert.  She's  O.K.  That  is  one  big  hole.  Now  Sophie  is  crying  and  crying.  Sophie,  my  daughter  says,  hugging     her.  Are  you  O.K.,  peanut?  Are  you  O.K.?  She's  just  scared,  says  John.  Are  you  O.K.?  I  say,  too.  I  don't  know  what  happen,  I  say.  She's  O.K.,  says  John.  He  is  not  like  my  daughter,  full  of  questions.  He  is  full  of  answers  until  we  get  home  and  can  see  by  the  lamplight.  Will  you  look  at  her?  he  yell  then.  What  the  hell  happened?  Bruises  all  over  her  brown  skin,  and  a  swollen-up  eye.  You  are  crazy!  says  my  daughter.  Look  at  what  you  did!  You  are  crazy!  I  try  very  hard,  I  say.  How  could  you  use  a  stick?  I  told  you  to  use  your  words!  She  is  hard  to  handle,  I  say.  She's  threeyears  old!  You  cannot  use  a  stick!  says  my  daughter.  She  is  not  like  any  Chinese  girl  I  ever  saw,  I  say.  I  brush  some  sand  off  my  clothes.  Sophie's  clothes  are  dirty,  too,  but  at  least  shehas  her  clothes  on.  Has  she  done  this  before?  ask  my  daughter.  Has  she  hit  you  before?  She  hits  me  all  the  time,  Sophie  says,  eating  ice  cream.  Your  family,  says  John.  Believe  me,  says  my  daughter.  DAUGHTER  I  have,  a  beautiful  daughter,  I  took  care  of  her  when  she  could  not  hold  her  head  up.  I  took  care  of  her  before  she  could  argue  with  me,  when  she  was  a  little  girl  with  two  pigtails,  one  of  them  always  crooked.  I  took  care  of  her  when  suddenly  we  have  to  escape  from  4368696e61,  I  took  care  of  her  when  suddenly  we  live  in  a  country  with  cars  everywhere,  if  you  are  not  careful  your  little  girl  get  run  over.  When  my  husband  die,  I  promise  him  I  will  keep  the  family  together,  even  though  it  was  just  two  of  us,  hardly  a  family  at  all.  But  now  my  daughter  take  me  around  to  look  at  apartments.  After  all,  I  can  cook,  I  can  clean,  there's  no  reason  I  cannot  live  by  myself,  all  I  need  is  a  telephone.  Of  course,  she  is  sorry.  Sometimes  she  cry,  I  am  the  one  to  say  everything  will  be  O.K.  She  says  she  has  no  choice,  she  doesn't  want  to  end  up  divorced.  I  say  divorce  is  terrible,  I  don't  know  who  in-  vented  this  terrible  idea.  Instead  of  live  with  a  telephone,  though,  surprise,  I  come  to  live  with  Bess.  Imagine  that.  Bess  make  an  offer  and,  sure  enough,  where  she  come  from,  people  mean  for  you  to  move  in  when  they  say  things  like  that.  A  crazy  idea,  go  to  live  with  someone  else's  family,  but  she  like  to  have  some  female  company,  not  like  my  daughter,  who  does  not  believe  in  company.  These  days  when  my  daugh-  ter  visit,  shedoes  not  bring  Sophie.  Bess  says  we  should  give  Nattie  time,  we  will  see  Sophie  again  soon.  But  seems  like  my  daughter  have  more  presentation  than  ever  before,  every  time  she  come  she  have  to  leave.  I  have  a  family  to  support,  she  says,  and  her  voice  is  heavy,  as  if  soaking  wet.  I  have  a  young  daughter  and  a  depressed  husband  andno  one  to  turn  to.  When  she  says  no  one  to  turn  to,  she  mean  me.  These  days  my  beautiful  daughter  is  so  tired  she  can  just  sit  there  in  a  chair  and  fall  asleep.  John  lost  his  job  again,  al-  ready,  but  still  they  rather  hire  a  babysit,  ter  than  ask  me  to  help,  even  though  they  can't  afford  it.  Of  course,  the  new  babysitter  is  much  younger,  can  run  around.  I  don't  know  if  Sophie  these  days  is  wild  or  not  wild.  She  call  me  Meanie,  but  she  like  to  kiss  me,  too,  sometimes.  I  remember  that  every  time  I  see  a  child  on  TV.  Sophie  like  to  grab  my  hair,  a  fistful  in  each  hand,  and  then  kiss  me  smack  on  the  nose.  I  never  see  any  other  child  kiss  that  way.  The  satellite  TV  has  so  many  chan-  nels,  more  channels  than  I  can  count,  in-  cluding  a  Chinese  channel  from  the  main-  land  and  a  Chinese  channel  from  Tatwan,  but  most  the  time  I  watch  bloopers  with  Bess.  Also  I  watch  the  bird  feeder-so  many,  many  kinds  of  birds  come.  The  Shea  sons  hang  around  all  the  time,  ask-  ing  when  will  I  go  home,  but  Bess  tell  them,  Get  lost.  She's  a  permanent  resident,  says  Bess.  She's  not  going  anywhere.  Then  she  wink  at  me,  and  switch  the  channel  with  the  remote  control.  Of  course,  I  shouldn't  say  the  Irish  this,  the  Irish  that,  especially  now  I  am  become  honorary  Irish  myself,  accord-  ing  to  Bess.  Me!  Who's  Irish,  I  say,  and  she  laugh.  All  the  same,  if  I  could  mention  one  thing  about  some  of  the  Irish,  not  all  of  them  of  course,  I  like  to  mention  this:  their  talk  just  stick.  I  don't  know  how  Bess  Shea  learn  to  use  her  words,  but  sometimes  I  hear  what  she  says  a  long  time  later.  Perime-  nent  resident.  Not  going  anywhere.  Over  and  over  I  hear  it,  thevoice  of  Bess. 