BEFORE  THE  CHANGE  DEAR  R.,  My  father  and  I  watched  Kennedy  debate  Nixon.  He's  got  a  television  since  you  were  here.  A  small  screen  and  rabbit  ears.  It  sits  out  in  front  of  the  sideboard  in  the  dining  room,  sothat  there's  no  easy  way  now  to  get  at  the  good  silver  orthe  table  linen,  even  if  anybody  wanted  to.  Why  in  the  dining  room,  where  there's  not  one  really  comfortable  chair?  Because  it's  a  while  since  they've  remembered  they  have  a  living  room.  Do  you  remember  this  room?  Heavy  side  curtains  with  wine-colored  leaves  on  a  beige  ground  and  the  net  curtains  in  between.  Picture  of  Sir  Galahad  leading  his  horse  and  picture  of  Glen-  coe  with  a  herd  of  red  deer  instead  of  the  massacre.  The  old  filing  cabinet  moved  in  years  ago  from  my  father's  of-  fice  but  still  no  place  found  for  it,  so  it  just  sits  there,  not  even  pushed  back  against  the  wall.  And  my  mother's  closed  sewing  machine  (the  only  time  he  ever  mentions  her,  when  he  says  &quot;your  mother's  sewing  machine&quot;)  with  the  same  or  what  looks  like  the  same  array  of  plants,  inclay  potsor  tin  cans,  not  flourishing  and  not  dying.  So  I'm  home  now.  Nobody  has  broached  the  question  as  to  how  long  for.  I  just  stuffed  the  Mini  with  all  my  books  and  papers  and  clothes  and  drove  here  from  [REDACTED]  in  one  day.  I  had  told  my  father  on  the  phone  that  I  was  fin-  ished  with  my  thesis  (I've  actually  given  it  up,  but  I  didn't  bother  telling  him  that)  and  that  I  thought  I  needed  a  break.  &quot;Break?&quot;  he  said,  as  if  he'd  never  heard  of  such  a  thing.  &quot;Well.  As  long  as  it  isn't  a  nervous  break.&quot;  That'sthe  way  he  still  refers  to  panic  attacks  and  depression  and  personal  collapse.  Nervous  breakdown.  There  wasn't  any  big  welcome  when  I  got  here,  but  no  consternation,  either.  How  could  she  not  have  known?     BY  ALICE  MUNRO  I'd  thought  of  kissing  him-more  bravado  than  an  upsurge  of  affection,  more  this-is-the-way-I-do-things-now.  Butby  the  time  my  shoes  hit  the  gravel  I  knew  I  couldn't.  There  was  Mrs.  B.  standing  halfway  between  the  drive  and  the  kitchen  door.  So  I  went  and  threw  my  arms  around  her  instead  and  nuz-  zled  the  bizarre  black  hair  cut  in  a  Chi-  nese  sort  of  bob  around  her  small  with-  ered  face.  I  could  smell  her  stuffy  cardigan  and  bleach  on  her  apron  and  feel  her  old  toothpick  bones.  She  hardly  came  up  to  my  collarbone.  Flustered,  I  said,  &quot;It's  a  beautiful  day,  it's  been  the  most  beautiful  drive.&quot;  So  it  was.  So  it  had  been.  The  trees  not  turned  yet,  just  rusting  at  the  edges,  and  the  stubble  fields  like  gold.  So  why  does  this  benevolence  of  landscape  fade  in  my  father's  presence  and  in  his  territory?  When  the  debate  was  over,  my  fa-  ther  got  up  and  turned  off  the  televi-  sion.  He  won't  watch  a  commercial  un-  less  Mrs.  B.  is  there  and  speaks  up  in  favor.  Whatever  she  enjoys  is  permit-  ted,  even  dancing  cornflakes,  and  he  may  even  say,  &quot;Well,  in  its  own  way  it's  clever.&quot;  This  I  think  is  a  kind  of  warn-  ing  to  me.  What  did  he  think  about  Kennedy  and  Nixon?  &quot;Aw,  they're  just  a  couple  of  Amer-  icans.  I  tried  to  open  the  conversation  up  a  bit.  &quot;How  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Justa  couple  of  Americans,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  the  words  might  have  got  by  me  the  first  time.  So  we  sit  there  not  talking  but  not  in  silence,  because,  as  you  may  recall,  he  is  a  noisy  breather.  THE  waiting-room  walls  are  &amp;  scuffed  all  round  where  genera-  tions  of  patients  have  leaned  their  chairs  back  against  them.  The  Reader's  Digests  are  in  rags  on  the  table.  The  pa-  tients'  files  are  in  cardboard  boxes  under  the  examining  table.  And  in  the  house  it's  no  better.  I  asked  what  color  paint  he'd  like  for  the  office  walls.  Light  green,  I  said,  or  light  yellow?  He  said,  &quot;Who's  going  to  paint  them?&quot;  &quot;I  am.&quot;  &quot;I  never  knew  you  were  a  painter.&quot;  &quot;I've  painted  places  I've  lived  in.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  so.  But  I  haven't  seen  them.  What  are  you  going  to  do  about  my  pa-  tients  while  you're  painting?&quot;  &quot;T'll  do  it  on  a  Sunday.&quot;  &quot;Some  of  them  wouldn't  care  for  that  when  they  heardabout  it.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  kidding?  In  this  day  and  age?&quot;  &quot;It  may  not  be  quite  the  same  day  and  age  you  think  it  is.  Not  around  here.&quot;  All  I  got  to  do  in  the  endwas  throw  out  the  Reader's  Digests  and  put  out  some  copies  of  Maclean's  and  Time  and  Saturday  Night.  And  then  he  mentioned  there'd  been  complaints.  They  missed  looking  up  the  jokes  they  remembered  in  the  Reader's  Digests.  &quot;Too  bad,&quot;  I  said,  and  I  couldn't  be-  lieve  that  my  voice  was  shaking.  Then  I  tried  to  tackle  the  filing  cab-  inetin  the  dining  room.  I  thought  it  was  probably  full  of  the  files  of  patients  who  were  long  dead.  Mrs.  B.  saw  what  I  was  doing  and  went  and  got  my  fa-  ther.  Not  a  word  to  me.  He  said,  &quot;Who  told  youyou  could  )29  go  poking  around  in  there?  I  didn't.  THE  two  days  you  were  here  last  &amp;  year  Mrs.  B.  was  off  for  Christ-  mas  with  her  family.  (She  has  a  hus-  band  who  has  been  sick  with  em-  physema  it  seems  for  half  his  life,  and  no  children,  but  a  horde  of  nieces  and  nephews  and  connections.)  I  don't     think  you  saw  her  at  all.  But  she  saw  you.  She  said  to  me  yesterday,  &quot;Where's  that  Mr.  So-and-So  you  were  supposed  to  be  engaged  to?&quot;  She'd  noticed  I  wasn't  wearing  my  ring.  &quot;I  imagine  in  Toronto,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  was  up  at  my  niece's  last  Christ-  mas  and  we  seen  you  and  him  walking  up  by  the  standpipe  g  and  my  niece  said,  'I  wonder  where  them  two  are  going.&quot;&quot;  This  is  exactly  how  she  talks  and  it  already  sounds  quite  normal  to  me  ex-  cept  if  I  write  it  down.  I  guess  the  implica-  tion  is  that  we  were  *  going  somewhere  to  s  carry  on,  but  if  you  remember  we  were  just  getting  outside  so  we  could  continue  our  fight,  which  could  only  be  bottled  up  for  so  long.  Mrs.  B.  started  to  work  for  my  father  about  the  same  time  I  went  away  to  school.  Before  that  we  had  some  young  women  I  liked,  but  they  left  to     while  the  ground  was  froze  and  come  spring  they  was  going  to  put  him  in  the  ground  and  one  or  other  us  says,  'Let's  takea  look-see  how  he  made  it  through  the  winter.&quot;  So  we  got  the  fellow  to  lift  the  lid  and  there  he  was  with  his  face  not  dark  or  caved  in  or  anything  and  his  hair  was  black.&quot;     get  married,  or  to  work  in  war  plants.  When  I  was  nine  or  ten  and  had  been  to  some  of  my  school  friends'  houses,  I  said  to  my  father,  &quot;Why  __  *  does  Mrs.  Barrie  have  to  eat  with  us?  Other  people's  maids  don't  eat  with  them.&quot;  My  father  said,  &quot;If  you  don't  like  to  q  eat  with  Mrs.  Barrie  you  can  go  and  &amp;  eat  in  the  woodshed.&quot;  Then  I  took  to  hanging  around  and  7  getting  her  to  talk.  She  wouldn't,  much.  2  But  when  she  did  it  could  be  reward-  88  ing.  I  had  a  fine  time  imitating  her  at  $  &amp;  school.  Me:  &quot;Your  hair  is  really  black,  Mrs.  Barrie.&quot;  Mrs.  B.:  &quot;Everyone  in  my  family  2  is  gotblack  hair.  They  all  got  black  z  hair  and  it  never  ever  gets  gray.  2  That's  on  my  mother's  side.  When  &amp;  my  grandpa  died  they  kept  him  in  #  the  place  in  the  cemetery  all  winter  CHEIM  OUISE  BOURGE  BY  I  could  even  do  the  little  laughs  she  does,  little  barks,  not  to  indicate  that  anything  is  funny  but  as  a  kind  of  punc-  tuation.  By  the  time  I  met  you  I'd  got  sick  of  myself  doing  this.  After  Mrs.  B.  told  me  all  that  about  her  hair,  I  met  her  one  day  coming  out  to  the  upstairs  bathroom.  She  was  hur-  rying  to  get  the  phone,  which  I  wasn't  allowed  to  answer.  Her  hair  was  bun-  dled  up  in  a  towel  and  a  dark,  purplish  trickle  was  running  down  the  side  of  her  face.  &quot;Your  head's  bleeding,&quot;  I  said,  and  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  get  out  of  my  road,&quot;  and  scrambled  past  to  get  the  phone.  I  went  on  into  the  bathroom  and  saw  purple  streaks  in  the  basin  and  the  hair  dye  on     133  the  shelf.  Not  a  word  was  said  about  this,  and  she  continued  to  talk  about  how  everybody  on  her  mother's  side  of  the  family  had  black  hair  in  their  coffins  and  she  would,  too.  My  father  had  an  odd  way  of  notic-  ing  me  in  those  years.  He  might  be  passing  through  a  room  where  I  was  $,  and  he'd  say  as  if  he  hadn't  seen  me  there:  &quot;The  Chief  Defect  of  Henry  King  Was  chewing  little  bits  of  String.&quot;  Or,  &quot;Solomon  Grundy,  born  on  Monday-&quot;  And  then  he'd  jab  a  finger  at  me  to  take  it  up.  &quot;Christened  on  Tuesday-&quot;  &quot;  M  a  r  ried  Wednesday-&quot;  &quot;Took  ill  on  Thursday-&quot;  &quot;Worse  on  Friday-&quot;  &quot;Died  on  Saturday-&quot;  &quot;Buried  on  Sunday-&quot;  Then  both  together,  thunderously:  &quot;And  that  was  the  end  of  Solomon  Grundy!&quot;  Never  any  introduc-  tion  and  no  comment  afterward.  For  ajoke  I  tried  calling  him  Sol-  omon  Grundy.  The  fourth  or  fifth  time,  he  said,  &quot;That's  enough.  That's  not  my  name.  I'm  your  father.&quot;  After  that  we  probably  didn't  do  the  rhyme  anymore.  The  first  time  I  met  you  on  the  cam-  pus,  and  you  were  alone  and  I  was  alone,  you  looked  as  if  you  remembered  me  but  weren't  sure  about  acknowledging  it.  You  had  just  taught  that  one  class,  filling  in  when  our  regular  man  was  sick  and  you  had  to  do  the  lecture  on  logical  pos-  itivism.  You  joked  about  its  being  a  funny  thing  to  bring  somebody  over  from  the  Theological  College  todo.  You  seemed  tohesitate  about  saying  hello,  so  I  said,  &quot;The  former  King  of  [REDACTED]  is  bald.&quot;  That  was  the  example  you'd  given  us  of  a  statement  that  makes  no  sense  be-  cause  the  subject  doesn't  exist.  But  you  gave  me  a  truly  startled  and  cornered  look  that  you  then  covered  up  with  a  profes-  sional  smile.  What  did  you  think  of  me?  A  smart-aleck.  My  stomach  is  still  a  little  puffy.  &amp;  There  are  no  marks  on  it,  but  I  can  bunch  it  up  in  my  hands.  Other-  wise  I'm  O.K.  My  weight  is  back  to  normal  or  a  little  below.  I  think  I  look  older,  though.  I  think  I  look  older  than  twenty-four.  Anyway,  I've  started  go-  ing  on  long  walks  around  town,  for  ex-  ercise.  The  horse  barns  have  been  torn  down,  and  there  are  new  suburbs  that  could  be  suburbs  anywhere,  which  is  what  everybody  likes  about  them.  No-  body  walks  now,  everybody  drives.  The  suburbs  don't  have  sidewalks,  and  the  sidewalks  along  the  old  back  streets  are  unused  and  cracked  and  uptilted  by  frost  and  disappearing  under  earth  and  grass.  The  long  dirt  path  under  the  pine  trees  along  our  lane  is  lost  now  under  drifts  of  pine  needles  and  rogue  saplings  and  wild-raspberry  canes.  People  have  walked  up  that  path  for  decades  to  see  the  doctor.  Because  there's  been  a  doctor  livingin  this  house  since  the  end  of  the  last  century.  All  sorts  of  noisy,  grubby  patients,  children  and  mothers  and  old  people,  all  afternoon  and  quieter  patients  com-  ing  singly  in  the  evenings.  I  used  to  sit  out  where  there  was  a  pear  tree  trapped  in  a  clump  of  lilac  bushes,  and  I'd  spy  on  them,  because  young  girls  like  to  spy.  I'd  spy  on  the  ladies  who  got  dressed  up,  at  that  time,  for  a  visit  to  the  doctor.  I  remember  the  clothes  from  soon  after  the  war.  Long  full  skirts  and  cinch  belts  and  puffed-up  blouses  and  sometimes  short  white  gloves,  for  gloves  were  worn  then  in  summer  and  not  just  to  church.  Hats  not  just  to  church,  either.  Pastel  straw  hats  that  framed  the  face.  Not  having  a  mother  may  have  hadsome-  thing  to  do  with  how  I  felt.  But  I  didn't  know  anybody  who  had  a  mother  who  looked  the  way  they  did.  I'd  crouch  under  the  bushes  eating  the  spotty  yel-  low  pears  and  worshipping.  One  of  our  teachers  had  got  usread-  ing  old  ballads,  like  &quot;Patrick  Spens&quot;  and  &quot;The  Twa  Corbies,&quot;  and  there'd  been  a  rash  of  ballad-making  at  school:  I'm  going  down  the  corridor  My  good  friend  for  to  see  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  24  &amp;  31,  1998  I'm  going  to  the  lav-a-to-ry  To  have  myself  a  pee.  So  with  my  mouth  full  of  mushy  pear  I  made  up  more:  A  lady  walks  on  a  long  long  path  She's  left  the  town  behind.  She's  left  her  home  and  her  father's  wrath  Her  destiny  for  to  find.  When  the  wasps  started  bothering  me  too  much  I  went  into  thehouse.  Mrs.  Barrie  would  be  in  the  kitchen,  smoking  a  cigarette  and  listening  to  the  radio,until  my  father  called  her.  She  stayed  till  the  last  patient  had  left  and  the  place  had  been  tidied  up.  If  there  was  a  yelp  from  the  office  she  might  give  her  own  little  yelping  laugh  and  say,  &quot;Go  ahead  and  holler.&quot;  I  never  bothered  de-  scribing  to  her  the  clothes  or  the  looks  of  the  women  I'd  seen,  because  I  knew  she'd  never  admire  anybody  for  being  beautiful  orwell  dressed.  Any  more  than  she'd  admire  them  for  knowing  some-  thing  nobody  needed  to  know,  like  a  foreign  language.  Good  card  players  she  admired,  and  fast  knitters-that  was  about  all.  Many  people  she  had  no  use  for.  My  father  said  that,  too.  He  had  no  use.  That  made  me  want  to  ask,  If  they  did  have  a  use,  what  would  the  use  be?  But  I  knew  neither  one  would  tell  me.  Instead  they'd  tell  me  not  to  be  sosmart:  His  Uncle  came  on  Franklin  Hyde  Carousing  in  the  Dirt.  He  Shook  him  hard  from  Side  to  Side  And  Hit  him  till  it  Hurt.  If  I  decided  to  send  all  this  to  you  where  would  I  send  it?  When  I  think  of  writing  the  whole  address  on  the  envelope  I  am  paralyzed.  It's  too  pain-  ful  to  think  of  you  in  the  same  place  with  your  life  going  on  in  the  same  way,  minus  me.  And  to  think  of  you  not  there,  you  somewhere  else  but  I  don't  know  where,  is  worse.  EAR  ROBIN,  How  do  you  think  I  didn't  know?  It  was  right  in  front  of  my  eyes  all  the  time.  If  I  had  gone  to  school  here,  I'd  surely  have  known.  If  I'd  had  friends.  There's  no  way  one  of  the  high-school  girls,  one  of  the  older  girls,  wouldn't  have  made  sure  I  knew.  Now  that  I  think  of  it,  I  knew  that  some  of  those  evening  patients,  those  ladies,  came  on  the  train.  I  associated  them  and  their  beautiful  clothes  with  the  evening  train.  And  there  was  a  late-night  train  they  must  have  left  on.  BEFORE  THE  CHANGE  Of  course  there  could  just  as  easily  have  been  a  car  that  dropped  them  off  at  the  end  of  the  lane.  And  I  was  told-by  Mrs.  B.,  I  think,  not  by  him-that  they  came  to  my  fa-  ther  for  vitamin  shots.  I  know  that,  be-  cause  I  would  think,  Now  she's  getting  her  shot,  whenever  we  heard  a  woman  make  a  noise,  and  I  would  be  a  little  surprised  that  women  so  sophisticated  and  self-controlled  were  not  more  sto-  ical  about  needles.  Even  now,  it  has  taken  me  weeks.  Through  all  this  time  spent  getting  used  to  the  ways  of  the  house,  to  the  point  where  I  would  never  dream  of  picking  up  a  paintbrush  and  would  hesitateto  straighten  a  drawer  or  throw  out  an  old  grocery  receipt  without  consulting  Mrs.  B.,  who  can  never  make  up  her  mind  about  it  anyway.  At  lunch  today,  Sunday,  my  father  laid  a  check  beside  my  plate.  Mrs.  Bar-  rie  is  never  here  on  Sundays.  We  have  a  cold  lunch  of  sliced  meat  and  bread  and  tomatoes  and  pickles  and  cheese,  which  Ifix  when  my  father  gets  back  from  church.  He  never  asks  me  to  go  to  church  with  him-probably  thinking  that  would  just  give  me  a  chance  to  air  some  views  he  doesn't  care  to  hear.  The  check  was  for  five  thousand  dollars.  &quot;That's  for  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  you'll  have  something.  You  can  put  it  in  the  bank  or  invest  it  how  you  like.  See  how  the  rates  are.I  don't  keep  up.  Of  course  you'll  get  the  house,  too.  All  in  the  full-  ness  of  time,  as  they  say.&quot;  A  bribe?  1  thought.  Money  to  start  a  little  business  with,  go  on  a  trip  with?  Money  for  the  down  payment  on  a  little  house  of  my  own,  or  to  go  back  to  uni-  versity  to  get  somemore  of  what  he  has  called  my  unnegotiable  degrees?  Five  thousand  dollars  to  get  rid  of  me.  I  thanked  him,  and  more  or  less  for  conversation's  sake  I  asked  him  what  he  did  with  his  money.  He  said  that  was  neither  here  nor  there.  &quot;Ask  Billy  Snyder  if  you're  looking  for  advice.&quot;  Then  he  remembered  that  Billy  Snyder  was  no  longer  in  the  ac-  counting  business;  he  had  retired.  &quot;There's  some  new  fellowthere  with  a  queer  name,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  like  Ypsi-  lanti,  but  it's  not  Ypsilanti.&quot;  &quot;Ypsilanti  is  a  town  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  a  town  in  [REDACTED],  but  it  was  a  man's  name  before  it  was  a  town  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  my  father  said.  It  seems  it  was  the  name  of  a  Greek  leader  who  fought  against  the  Turks  early  in  the  eighteen-hundreds.  Isaid,  &quot;Oh.  In  Byron's  war.&quot;  &quot;Byron's  war?&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;What  makes  you  call  it  that?  Byron  didn't  fight  in  any  war.  He  died  of  ty-  phus.  Then  once  he's  dead  he's  the  big  hero,  he  died  for  the  Greeks,  and  so  on.&quot;  He  said  this  contentiously,  as  if  I  had  beenone  of  those  responsible  for  this  mistake,  this  big  fuss  over  Byron.  But  then  he  calmed  down  and  re-  counted  for  me,  or  recalled  for  himself,  the  progress  of  the  war  against  the  Ot-  toman  Empire.  It's  always  best  not  to  interrupt.  When  he  starts  totalk  like  this  there's  the  sense  of  a  truce,  or  a  breathing  spell,  in  an  undeclared  un-  derground  war.  I  was  sitting  facing  the  window,  and  I  could  see  through  the  net  curtains  the  heaps  of  yellow-brown  leaves  on  the  ground,  in  the  rich  gen-  erous  sunlight  (maybe  the  last  of  those  days  we'll  get  for  a  long  while  by  the  sound  of  the  wind  tonight),  and  it  brought  to  mind  my  relief  as  a  child,  my  secret  pleasure,  whenever  1  could  get  him  going,  by  asking  a  question  or  by  accident,  on  a  spiel  like  this.  Last  night  I  came  in  at  about  ten  o'-  clock.  I'd  been  out  at  a  meeting  of  the  Historical  Society,  or,  rather,  at  a  meet-  ing  to  try  and  organize  one.  Five  people  showed  up,  and  two  of  them  walked  with  canes.  When  I  opened  the  kitchen  door  I  saw  Mrs.  B.  framed  in  the  door-  way  to  the  back  hall-the  hall  that  leads  from  the  office  to  the  washroom  and  the  front  part  of  the  house.  She  had  a  covered  basin  in  her  hands.  Shewas  on  her  way  to  the  washroom  and  she  could  have  gone  on,  passing  the  kitchen  as  I  came  in.I  would  hardly  have  noticed  her.  But  she  stopped  in  her  tracks  and  stood  there,  partly  turned  toward  me.  She  made  a  grimace  of  dismay.  Uh-oh.  Caught  out.  Then  she  scurried  away  toward  the  toilet.  This  was  an  act.  The  surprise,  the     135  dismay,  the  hurrying  away.  Even  the  way  she  held  the  basin  out  so  that  I  had  to  notice  it.  That  was  all  deliberate.  I  could  hear  the  rumble  of  my  fa-  ther's  voice  in  the  office,  talking  toa  patient.  I  had  seen  the  officelights  on  anyway.  I  had  seen  the  patient's  car  parked  outside.  I  took  off  my  coat  and  went  on  upstairs.  All  I  seemed  to  be  concerned  about  was  not  letting  Mrs.  B.  have  it  her  way.  No  questions,  no  shocked  re-  alization.  No  what  is  that  you  have  in  the  basin,  Mrs.  B.,  ohwhat  have  you  and  my  daddy  been  up  to?  (Not  that  I  ever  called  him  my  daddy.)  I  got  busy  at  once  rooting  around  in  one  of  the  boxes  of  books  I  still  hadn't  un-  packed.  I  was  looking  for  the  journals  of  Anna  Jameson.  I  had  promised  it  to  the  other  person  under  seventy  who  had  been  at  the  meeting.  A  man  who  is  a  photographer  and  knows  something  about  the  history  of  Upper  [REDACTED].  He  would  like  to  have  been  a  history  teacher  but  has  a  stammer  that  prevented  him.  He  told  me  this  in  the  half  hour  we  stood  out  on  the  sidewalk  talking  instead  of  takingthe  more  decisive  step  of  going  for  coffee.  As  we  said  good  night  he  told  me  that  he'd  like  to  have  asked  me  for  coffee,  but  he  had  to  get  home  and  spell  his  wife  because  the  baby  had  colic.  I  unpacked  the  whole  box  of  books  before  I  was  through.  It  was  like  look-  ing  at  relics  from  a  bygone  age.  I  looked  through  them  till  the  patient  was  gone  and  my  father  had  taken  Mrs.  B.  home  and  had  come  upstairs  and  used  the  bathroom  and  gone  to  bed.  I  read  till  I  was  so  groggy  I  al-  most  fell  asleep  on  the  floor.  AF  lunch  today  I  finally  said,  &quot;I  think  I  know  what's  going  on  here.&quot;  His  head  reared  up  and  he  snorted.  He  really  did,  like  an  old  horse.  &quot;You  do,  do  you?  You  think  you  know  what?&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I'm  not  accusing  you.  I  don't  disapprove.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  &quot;I  believe  in  abortion,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  be-  lieve  it  should  be  legal.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  use  that  word  again  in  this  house.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Because  I  am  the  one  who  says  136  what  words  are  used  in  this  house.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  understand  what  I'm  saying.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  that  you've  got  too  loose  a  tongue.  You've  got  too  loose  a  tongue  and  not  enough  sense.  Too  much  education  and  not  enough  ordi-  nary  brains.&quot;  I  still  did  not  shut  up.  I  said,  &quot;People  must  know.&quot;  &quot;Must  they?  There's  a  difference  be-  tween  knowing  and  yapping.  Get  that  through  your  head  once  and  for  all.&quot;  We  did  not  speak  for  the  rest  of  the  day.  I  don't  think  he  finds  this  difficult  at  all.  I  cooked  the  usual  roast  for  din-  ner  and  we  ate  it  and  did  not  speak.  It's  obviously  time  that  I  got  out  of  here.  The  young  man  last  night  told  me  that  when  he  felt  relaxed  his  stammer  practically  disappeared.  Like  when  I'm  talking  to  you,  he  said.  I  could  probably  make  him  fall  in  love  with  me,  to  a  cer-  tain  extent.  I  could  do  that  just  for  rec-  reation.  That  is  the  sort  of  life  I  could  get  into  here.  DEAR  R.,  I  haven't  left-the  Mini  wasn't  fit  for  it.  I  took  it  into  be  overhauled.  Also  the  weather  has  changed,  the  wind  has  got  into  an  autumn  rampage,  scooping  up  the  lake  and  battering  the  beach.  It  caught  Mrs.  Barrie  on  her  own  front  steps-the  wind  did-and  knocked  her  sideways  and  shattered  her  elbow.  It's  her  left  elbow  and  she  said  she  could  work  with  her  right  arm,  but  my  father  told  her  it  was  a  complicated  fracture  and  he  wanted  her  to  rest  for  a  month.  He  asked  me  if  I  would  mind  postponing  my  depar-  ture.  Those  were  his  words-postpon-  ing  your  departure.  He  hasn't  asked  where  I'm  planning  to  go,  and  I  don't  know.  I  said  all  right,  I'd  stay  while  I  could  be  useful.  So  we're  on  decent  speaking  terms-in  fact,  it's  fairly  comfortable.  I  try  to  do  just  about  what  Mrs.  B.  would  do,  in  thehouse.  I  cook  the  meat  and  the  vegetables  in  her  way  and  never  think  about  bringing  home  an  avocado  or  a  jar  of  artichoke  hearts  or  a  garlic  bulb,  though  I  see  all  those  things  are  now  for  sale  in  the  supermarket.  I  hold  the  oven  door  shut  the  way  Mrs.  B.  does,  with  a  couple  of  heavy  medical  textbooks  set  on  a  stool  pushed  up  against  it.  I  make  the  coffee  from  the  powder  in  the  jar.  I'm  allowed  to  answer  the  phone,  but  if  it's  a  woman  asking  for  my  father  and  not  volunteering  details,  I'm  sup-  posed  to  take  the  number  and  say  that  the  doctor  will  phone  back.  So  I  do,  and  sometimes  the  woman  just  hangs  up.  When  I  tell  my  father  this  he  says,  &quot;She'll  likely  call  again.&quot;  There  aren't  many  of  those  patients,  the  ones  he  calls  the  &quot;specials&quot;-maybe  one  a  month.  Mostly  he's  dealing  with  sore  throats  and  cramped  colons  and  bealing  ears  and  so  on.  Jumpy  hearts,  kidney  stones,  sour  digestions.  TONIGHT  he  knocked  on  my  door.  &amp;  He  knocked  though  it  wasn't  all  the  way  closed.  I  was  reading.  He  asked-not  in  a  supplicating  way  of  course  but  I  would  say  with  reasonable  respect-if  I  could  give  him  a  hand  in  the  office.  The  first  special  since  Mrs.  B.  has  been  away.  I  asked  what  he  wanted  me  to  do.  &quot;Just  more  or  less  to  keep  her  steady,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She's  young  and  she's  not  used  to  it  yet.  Give  your  hands  a  good  scrub,  too.  Use  the  soap  in  the  bottle  in  the  toilet  downstairs.&quot;  The  patient  was  lying  flat  on  the  examining  table  with  a  sheet  over  her  from  the  waist  down.  The  top  part  of  her  was  fully  dressed  in  a  dark-blue  buttoned-up  cardigan  and  a  white  blouse  with  a  lace-trimmed  collar.  These  clothes  lay  loosely  over  her  sharp  collarbone  and  nearly  flat  chest.  Her  hair  was  black,  pulled  tightly  back  from  her  face  and  braided  and  pinned  on  top  of  her  head.  This  prim  and  severe  style  made  her  neck  look  long  and  emphasized  the  regal  bone  structure  of  her  white  face,  so  that  from  a  distance  she  could  be  taken  for  a  woman  of  forty-five.  Close  up  you  could  see  that  she  was  quite  young,  probably  around  twenty.  Her  pleated  skirt  was  hung  upon  the  back  of  the  door.  I  could  see  the  rim  of  white  panties  that  she  had  thoughtfully  hung  underneath.  She  was  shivering  hard  though  the  office  wasn't  cold.  &quot;Now,  Madeleine,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;The  first  thing  is  we've  got  to  get  your  knees  up.&quot;  I  wondered  if  he  knew  her.  Or  did     he  just  ask  for  a  name  and  use  what-  ever  the  woman  gave  him?  &quot;Easy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Easy.  Easy.&quot;  He  got  the  stirrups  in  place  and  her  feet  into  them.  She  was  still  wearing  her  loafers.  Her  knees  shook  so  much  in  this  new  position  that  they  clapped  together.  &quot;You'll  have  to  hold  steadier  than  that,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;You  know,  now,  I  can't  do  my  job  unless  you  do  yours.  Do  you  want  a  blanket  over  you?&quot;  He  said  to  me,  &quot;Get  her  ablanket.  Off  the  bottom  shelf  there.&quot;  I  arranged  the  blanket  to  cover  the  top  part  of  Madeleine's  body.  She  didn't  look  at  me.  Her  teeth  rattled.  She  clenched  her  mouth  shut.  &quot;Now,  just  slide  down  this  way  a  bit,&quot;  my  father  said.  And  to  me,  &quot;Hold  her  knees.  Getthem  apart.  Just  hold  her  easy.&quot;  I  put  my  hands  on  the  knobs  of  the  girl's  knees  and  moved  them  apart  as  gently  as  I  could.  My  father's  breathing  filled  the  room  with  its  busy  unintelli-  gible  comments.  I  had  to  hold  Made-  leine's  knees  quite  firmly  to  keep  them  from  jerking  together.  &quot;Where's  that  old  woman?&quot;  she  said.  I  said,  &quot;She's  at  home.  She  had  a  fall.  I'm  here  instead.&quot;  So  she  had  been  here  before.  &quot;She's  rough,&quot;  she  said.  Her  voice  was  matter-of-fact,  al-  most  a  growl,  not  so  nervous  as  I  would  have  expected  from  the  agita-  tion  of  her  body.  My  father  had  picked  up  a  thin  rod  like  a  knitting  needle.  &quot;Now.  This  is  the  hard  part,&quot;  he  said.  He  spoke  in  a  conversational  tone,  milder  I  think  than  any  I  have  ever  heard  from  him.  &quot;And  the  more  you  tighten  up  the  harder  it  will  be.  So  just-easy.  There.  Easy.  Good  girl.  Good  girl.&quot;  I  was  trying  to  think  of  something  to  say  that  would  ease  her  or  distract  her.  I  could  see  now  what  my  father  was  doing.  Laid  out  on  a  white  cloth  on  the  table  beside  him  he  had  a  series  of  rods,  all  of  the  same  length  but  of  a  graduated  thickness.  These  were  what  he  would  use,  one  after  the  other,  to  open  and  stretch  the  cervix.  From  my  station  behind  the  sheeted  barrier  be-  yond  the  girl's  knees,  I  could  not  see  the  actual,  intimate  progress  of  these  instruments.  But  I  could  feel  it,  from  the  arriving  waves  of  pain  in  her  body   that  beat  down  the  spasms  of  appre-  hension  and  actually  made  her  quieter.  Where  are  you  from?  Where  did  you  go  to  school?  Do  you  have  a  job?  (I  had  noticed  a  wedding  ring,  but  quite  possibly  they  all  wore  wedding  rings.)  Do  you  have  any  brothers  or  sisters?  Why  should  she  want  to  answer  any  of  that,  even  if  she  weren't  in  pain?  She  sucked  her  breath  back  through  her  teeth  and  widened  her  eyes  at  the  ceiling.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;Getting  there,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;You're  a  good  girl.  Good  quiet  girl.  Won't  be  long  now.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  was  going  to  paint  this  room,  but  I  never  got  around  to  it.  If  you  were  going  to  paint  it,  what  color  would  you  choose?&quot;  &quot;Hoh,&quot;  said  Madeleine.  &quot;Hoh.&quot;  A  sudden  startled  expulsion  of  breath.  &quot;Hoh.  Hoh.&quot;  &quot;Yellow?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  thought  a  light  yellow.  Or  a  light  green?&quot;  By  the  time  we  got  to  the  thickest  rod  Madeleine  had  thrust  her  head  back  into  the  flat  cushion,  stretching  out  her  long  neck,  and  stretching  her  mouth,  too,  lips  wide  and  tight  over  her  teeth.  &quot;Think  of  your  favorite  movie.  What  is  your  favorite  movie?&quot;  -CHANA  BLOCH  A  nurse  said  that  to  me,  just  as  I  reached  the  unbelievable  interminable  plateau  of  pain  and  was  convinced  that  relief  would  not  come,  not  this  time.  How  could  movies  exist  anymore  in  the  world?  Now  I'd  said  the  same  thing  to  Madeleineand  Madeleine's  eyes  flicked  over  me  with  the  coldly  dis-  tracted  expression  of  someone  who  sees  that  a  human  being  can  be  about  as  much  use  as  a  stopped  clock.  I  risked  taking  one  hand  off  her  knee  and  touched  her  hand.  I  was  sur-  prised  at  how  quickly  and  fiercely  she  grabbed  it  and  mashed  the  fingers  to-  gether.  Some  use  after  all.  &quot;Now,  then,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Now  we're  someplace.&quot;  Shehad  closed  her  eyes.  I  thought  I  was  going  to  be  afraid  of  dying  because  of  my  mother  dying  that  way,  in  childbirth.  But  once  I  got  onto  that  plateau  I  found  that  dying  and  liv-  ing  were  both  irrelevant  notions,  like  favorite  movies.  I  was  stretched  to  the  limit  and  convinced  that  I  couldn't  do  a  thing  to  move  what  felt  like  a  giant  egg  or  a  flaming  planet,  not  like  a  baby  at  all.  It  was  stuck  and  I  was  stuck,  in  a  space  and  time  that  could  just  go  on  forever-there  was  no  reason  that  I  should  ever  get  out,  and  all  my  protests  had  already  been  annihilated.  BEFORE  THE  CHANGE  &quot;Now  I  need  you,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;I  need  you  round  here.  Get  the  basin.&quot;  I  held  in  place  the  same  basin  that  I  had  seen  Mrs.  Barrie  holding.  I  held  it  while  he  scraped  out  the  girl's  womb  with  a  clever  sort  of  kitchen  imple-  ment.  (I  don't  mean  that  it  was  a  kitchen  implement  but  that  it  had  a  slightly  homely  look  to  me.)  The  lower  parts  of  even  athin  young  girl  can  look  large  and  meaty  in  this  raw  state.  In  the  days  after  my  labor,  in  the  maternity  ward,  women  lay  care-  lessly,  even  defiantly,  with  their  fi-  ery  cuts  or  tears  exposed,  their  black-  stitched  wounds  and  sorry  flaps  and  big  helpless  haunches.  It  was  a  sight  to  see.  Out  of  the  womb  now  came  plops  of  wine  jelly,  and  blood,  and  some-  where  in  there  the  fetus.  Like  the  bau-  ble  in  the  cereal  box  or  the  prizein  the  popcorn.  A  tiny  plastic  doll  as  negligi-  ble  as  a  fingernail.  I  didn't  look  for  it.  I  held  my  head  up,  away  from  the  smell.  &quot;Bathroom,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;'There's  a  cover.&quot;  He  meant  the  folded  cloth  that  lay  beside  the  soiled  rods.  I  car-  ried  the  basin  along  the  hall  to  the  downstairs  toilet,  dumped  the  contents,  flushed  twice,  rinsed  thebasin  and  brought  it  back.  My  father  by  this  time  was  bandaging  up  the  girl  and  giving  her  some  instructions.  He's  good  at  this  job,  I  thought;  he  does  it  well.  But  his  face  looked  heavy,  weary  enough  to  drop  off  the  bones.  It  occurred  to  me  that  he  had  wanted  me  here,  all  through  the  proce-  dure,  incase  he  should  collapse.  If  he  had  collapsed  I  don't  know  what  I'd  have  done.  p  He  patted  Madeleine's  legs  and  told  hershe  should  lie  flat.  &quot;Don't  try  to  get  up  for  a  few  minutes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Have  you  got  your  ride  arranged  for?&quot;  &quot;He's  supposed  to've  been  out  there  all  the  time,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  weak  but  spiteful  voice.  &quot;He  wasn't  supposed  to've  gone  anyplace.&quot;  My  father  took  off  his  smock  and  walked  to  the  window  of  the  waiting  room.  &quot;You  bet,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Right  there.&quot;  He  let  out  a  complicated  groan,  said,  &quot;Where's  the  laundry  basket?,&quot;  re-  membered  that  it  was  back  in  the  bright  room  where  he'd  been  working,  came  back  and  deposited  the  smock,  11}  and  said  to  me,  &quot;I'd  be  very  obliged  if  you  could  tidy  this  up.&quot;  Tidy  up  meant  doing  the  sterilizing  and  mopping  up  in  general.  &quot;Good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  say  good  night  now.  My  daughter  will  see  you  out  when  you're  ready  to  go.&quot;  I  was  some-  what  surprised  to  hear  him  say  &quot;my  daughter&quot;  instead  of  my  name.  Of  course  I'd  heard  him  say  that  before.  If  he  had  to  introduce  me,  for  instance.  Still,  I  was  surprised.  Madeleine  swung  her  legs  offthe  table  the  minute  he  was  out  of  the  room.  Then  she  staggered  and  I  went  to  help  her.  She  said,  &quot;O.K.,  O.K.,  just  got  offa  the  table  too  quick.  Where'd  I  put  my  skirt-I  don't  want  to  stand  around  looking  like  this.&quot;  I  got  her  the  skirt  and  panties  off  the  back  of  the  door  and  she  put  them  on  without  help  but  very  shakily.  I  said,  &quot;You  could  rest  a  minute.  Your  husband  will  wait.&quot;  &quot;My  husband's  working  in  the  bush  up  near  Kenora,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  going  up  there  next  week.  He's  found  a  place  we  can  stay.  Now,  I  laid  my  coat  down  somewheres,&quot;  she  said.  My  favorite  movie-as  you  ought  to  know  and  if  I  could  have  thought  of  it  when  the  nurse  asked  me-is  &quot;Wild  Strawberries.&quot;  I  remember  the  moldy  little  theatre  where  we  used  to  see  all  those  Swedish  and  Japanese  and  Indian  and  Italian  movies  and  I  remember  that  it  had  re-  19  cently  switched  over  from  a  showing  &quot;Carry  On&quot;  movies,  and  Martin  and  Lewis,  but  the  name  of  it  I  can't  remember.  Since  you  were  teaching  philosophy  to  future  ministers,  your  favorite  movie  should  have  been  &quot;The  Seventh  Seal,&quot;  but  was  it?  Actually,  I  think  u  it  was  Japanese  and  I  forget  what  it  was  about.  Do  you  re-  member  those  fervent  conversations  we  used  to  have  whenwe  walked  home  from  the  theatre  those  couple  of  miles-about  human  love  and  selfish,  ness  and  God  and  faith  and  despera-  tion?  When  we  got  to  my  rooming  house  we  had  to  shut  up.  We  had  to  go  softly,  softly  up  the  stairs  to  my  room.  Ah,  you  would  say  gratefully  and  wonderingly  as  you  got  in.  I  would  have  been  very  nervous  about  bringing  you  here  last  Christmas  if  we  hadn't  already  been  deep  into  our  fight.  I  would  have  felt  too  protective  of  you  to  expose  you  to  my  father.  But  in  fact  you  got  along  pretty  well  together.  You  had  a  discussion  about  some  great  conflict  between  dif-  ferent  orders  of  monks  in  the  seventh  century,  wasn't  that  it?  The  row  those  monks  had  was  about  how  they  should  shave  their  heads.  A  curly-headed  beanpole  was  what  he  called  you.  Coming  from  him  that  was  almost  complimentary.  When  I  told  him  on  the  phone  that  you  and  I  would  not  be  getting  married  after  all,  he  said,  &quot;Uh-oh.  Do  you  think  you'll  ever  manage  to  get  another  one?&quot;  If  I'd  objected  to  his  saying  that  he  would  naturally  have  said  it  was  a  joke.  RS.  BARRIE  is  back.  She's  back  in  less  than  three  weeks,  though  it  was  supposed  to  have  been  a  month.  But  she  has  to  work  shorter  days  than  shedid  before.  It  takes  her  so  long  to  get  dressed  and  to  do  her  own  house-  work  that  she  seldom  gets  here  (deliv-  ered  by  her  nephew  or  her  nephew's  wife)  until  around  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning.  &quot;Your  father  looks  poorly&quot;  was  the  first  thing  she  said  to  me.  I  think  she's  right.  &quot;Maybe  he  should  take  a  rest,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Too  many  people  bothering  him,&quot;  she  said.  The  Mini  is  out  of  the  garage  and  the  money  is  in  my  bank  account.  What  I  should  do  is  take  off.  But  I  think,  What  if  we  get  another  special?  How  can  Mrs.  B.  help  him?  She  can't  use  her  left  hand  yet,  and  she  could  never  hold  on  to  the  basin  with  just  her  right  hand.  THIS  day  was  after  the  first  big  &amp;  snowfall.  It  all  happened  overnight  and  in  the  morning  the  sky  was  clear  blue,  there  was  no  wind,  and  the  brightness  was  preposterous.  I  went  for  an  early  walk,  under  the  pine  trees.  The  high-  way  had  already  been  plowed  and  so  had  our  lane.  Some  cars  went  by,  in  and  out  oftown,  as  on  any  other  morning.  Before  I  went  back  into  the  house  I  just  wanted  to  see  if  the  Mini  would  start,  and  it  did.  I  stomped  my  boots  free  of  snow  outside  the  back  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  24  &amp;  31,  1998  door  and  reminded  myself  that  I  must  put  a  broom  out.  The  kitchen  had  filled  up  with  the  day's  blast  of  light.  I  thought  I  knew  what  my  father  would  say.  &quot;Out  contemplating  nature?&quot;  He  was  sitting  at  the  table  with  his  hat  and  coat  on.  Usually  by  this  time  he  had  left  to  see  his  patients  in  the  hospital.  He  said,  &quot;Have  they  got  the  road  plowed  yet?  What  about  the  lane?&quot;  I  said  that  both  were  plowed  and  clear.  I  put  the  kettle  on  and  asked  if  he'd  like  another  cup  of  coffee  before  he  went  out.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Just  so  long  as  it's  plowed  so  I  can  get  out.&quot;  &quot;What  a  day,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  right  if  you  don't  have  to  shovel  yourself  out  of  it.&quot;  I  made  the  two  cups  of  coffee  and  then  I  sat  down,  facing  the  window  and  the  incoming  light.  He  sat  at  the  end  of  the  table.  He'd  shifted  his  chair  so  that  the  light  was  at  his  back.  I  couldn't  see  what  the  expression  on  his  face  was,  but  his  breathing  kept  me  company  as  usual.  I  started  to  tell  my  father  about  myself.  I  hadn't  intended  to  do  this  at  all.  I  had  meant  to  say  something  about  my  going  away.  But  I  opened  my  mouth  and  things  began  to  come  out  that  I  heard  with  equal  amounts  of  dismay  and  satisfaction,  the  way  you  hear  the  things  you  say  when  you  are  drunk.  &quot;You  never  knew  I  had  a  baby,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  had  it  on  the  seventeenth  of  July.  In  [REDACTED].  I've  been  thinking  how  ironical  that  was.&quot;  I  told  him  that  the  baby  had  been  adopted  right  away  and  that  I  didn't  know  whether  it  had  been  a  boy  or  a  girl.  That  I  had  asked  not  to  be  told.  And  I  had  asked  not  to  have  to  see  it.  &quot;I  stayed  with  Josie,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  remember  me  speaking  about  my  friend  Josie.  She's  in  England  now,  but  she  was  all  alone  then  in  her  parents'     house.  Her  parents  had  been  posted  to  [REDACTED]  Africa.  That  was  a  godsend.&quot;  I  told  him  you  were  the  father  of  the  baby,  in  case  he  wondered.  And  that  since  you  and  I  were  already  en-  gaged,  even  officially  engaged,  I  had  thought  that  all  we  had  to  do  was  get  married.  But  you  thought  differently.  You  said  that  we  had  to  find  a  doctor.  A  doctor  who  would  give  me  an  abortion.  He  did  not  remind  me  that  I  was  never  supposed  to  say  that  word  in  his  house.  I  told  him  that  you  had  said  we  could  not  just  go  ahead  and  get  mar-  ried,  because  anybody  who  could  count  would  know  that  I  had  been  pregnant  before  the  wedding.  We  could  not  get  married  until  I  was  def-  initely  not  pregnant  anymore.  Otherwise  you  might  lose  your  job  at  the  Theological  College.  They  could  bring  you  up  before  a  committee  that  might  judge  you  as  morally  unfit.  Morally  unfit  for  the  job  of  teaching  young  ministers.  And  even  supposing  this  did  not  happen,  that  you  were  only  reprimanded,  or  were  not  even  reprimanded,  you  would  still  never  be  promoted,  there  would  be  a  stain  on  your  record.  Even  if  nobody  said  any-  thing  to  you,  they  would  have  some-  thing  on  you,  and  you  could  not  stand  that.  The  new  students  coming  in  would  hear  about  you  from  the  older  ones,  there'd  be  jokes  passed  on.  Surely  not,  I'd  said.  Oh  yes.  Never  underestimate  the  meanness  there  is  in  people's  souls.  And  for  me,  too,  it  would  be  devas-  tating.  The  wives  controlled  so  much,  the  older  professors'  wives.  They'd  never  let  me  forget.  Even  when  they  were  being  kind-especially  when  they  were  being  kind.  But  we  could  just  pick  up  and  go  somewhere  else,  I  said.  Somewhere  where  nobody  would  know.  They'd  know.  There's  always  some-  body  who  makes  sure  that  people  know.  Besides,  that  would  mean  you'd  have  to  start  at  the  bottom  again.  You'd  have  to  start  at  a  lower  salary,  a  pitiful  salary,  and  how  could  we  manage  with  a  baby,  in  that  case?  I  was  astonished  at  these  argu-  ments,  which  did  not  seem  to  be  con-  sistent  with  the  ideas  of  the  person  I  BEFORE  THE  CHANGE  loved.  The  books  we  had  read,  the  movies  we  had  seen,  the  things  we  had  talked  about-1I  asked  if  that  meant  nothing  to  you.  You  said  of  course  it  did,  but  this  was  life.  It  was  winter,  like  now.  January  or  February.  We  were  walking  away  from  the  rooming  house.  I  threw  my  dia-  mond  ring  on  the  street  and  it  rolled  under  a  parked  car.  But  the  battle  dragged  on  after  that.  I  was  supposed  tofind  out  about  an  abortion  from  a  friend  who  had  a  friend  who  was  ru-  mored  to  have  had  one.  I'd  given  in,  I  said  I'd  do  it.  But  then  I  lied,  I  said  the  doctor  had  moved  away.  Then  I  ad-  mitted  lying.  I  can't  do  it,  I  said.  Butwas  that  because  of  the  baby?  Never.  It  was  because  I  believed  I  was  right  in  the  argument.  I  had  contempt.  I  had  contempt  when  I  saw  you  scrambling  to  get  under  the  parked  car,  with  the  tails  of  your  overcoat  flapping  around  your  buttocks.  You  were  clawing  in  the  snow  to  find  the  ring  and  you  were  so  relieved  when  you  found  it.  You  were  ready  to  hug  me  and  laugh,  thinking  I'd  be  relieved,too,  and  we'd  make  up  on  the  spot.  I  told  you  you  would  never  do  anything  admirable  in  your  whole  life.  Hypocrite,  I  said.  Sniveller.  Philos-  ophy  teacher.  Not  that  that  was  the  end.  For  we  did  make  up.  But  we  didn't  forgive  each  other.  And  we  didn't  take  steps.  And  then  it  got  to  be  too  late  and  we  just  walked  away  from  each  other.  And  that  was  a  relief  for  us  both.  And  also  a  kind  of  victory.  &quot;So  isn't  that  ironic?&quot;  I  said  to  my  father.  &quot;Considering?&quot;  I  could  hear  Mrs.  Barrie  outside  stomping  her  boots,  so  I  said  this  in  a  hurry.  My  father  had  sat  all  the  time  rigid  with  embarrassment,  so  I  thought,  or  with  profound  distaste.  Mrs.  Barrie  opened  the  door  saying,  &quot;Ought  to  get  a  broom  out  there-&quot;  Then  she  cried  out,  &quot;What  are  you  do-  ing  sitting  there?  What's  the  matter  with  you?  Can't  you  see  the  man's  dead?&quot;  He  wasn't  dead.  What  she  had  seen-  and  what  I  would  have  seen,  even  against  the  light,  if  I  had  not  been  avoiding  looking  at  him  whilst  I  told  my  tale-was  that  he  had  suffered  a  blinding  and  paralyzing  stroke.  He  sat  tilted  slightly  forward,  the  table  pressing  into  the  firm  curve  of  his  stomach.  When  we  tried  to  move  him  from  his  chair,  we  managed  only  to  jar  him,  so  that  his  head  came  down  on  the  table  with  a  majestic  reluctance.  His  hat  stayed  on.  And  his  coffee  cup  stayed  in  placea  couple  of  inches  from  his  un-  seeing  eye.  It  was  still  about  half  full.  I  said  we  couldn't  do  anything  with  him-he  was  too  heavy.  I  went  to  the  phone  and  called  the  hospital,  to  get  one  of  the  other  doctors  to  drive  out.  There's  no  ambulance  yet  in  this  town.  Mrs.  B.  paid  no  attention  to  what  Isaid.  She  gave  me  the  look  of  a  spitting  cat  and  kept  pulling  at  my  father's  clothes,  undoing  buttons  and  yanking  at  the  overcoat  and  grunting  and  whimper-  ing  with  the  exertion.  A  doctor  came.  He  and  I  together  were  able  topull  my  father  out  to  the  car  and  get  him  into  the  back  seat.  I  got  in  beside  him  to  keep  him  from  toppling  over.  The  sound  of  his  breath-  ing  was  more  peremptory  than  ever  and  seemed  to  be  criticizing  whatever  we  did.  But  you  could  take  hold  of  him  now  and  shove  him  around,  and  manage  his  body  as  you  had  to,  and  this  seemed  very  odd.  Mrs.  B.  had  fallen  back  and  qui-  eted  down  as  soon  as  she  saw  the  other  doctor.  She  didn't  even  follow  us  out  of  the  house  to  see  my  father  loaded  into  the  car.  This  afternoon  he  died.  At  about  five  o'clock.  I  was  told  it  was  very  lucky  for  all  concerned.  Was  full  of  other  things  to  say  just  when  Mrs.  Barrie  came  in.  I  was  going  to  say  to  my  father,  What  if  the  law  should  change?  The  law  might  change  soon,  I  was  going  to  say.  Maybe  not,  but  it  might.  He'd  be  out  of  business  then.  Or  out  of  one  part  of  his  business.  Would  that  make  a  great  differenceto  him?  Would  he  find  some  other  risk,  some  other  knot  to  make  in  his  life,  some  other  underground  and  problematic  act  of  mercy?  What  could  I  expect  him  to  answer?  &quot;Speaking  of  business,  that  is  none  of  yours.&quot;  But  if  that  law  could  change,  other  things  could  change.  I'm  thinking  about  you  now,  how  it  could  happen  that  you  wouldn't  be  ashamed  to  marry  a  pregnant  woman.  There'd  be  no  shame  to  it.  Move  ahead  a  few  years,  just  a  few  years,  and  it  could  be  a  cele-  bration.  The  pregnant  bride  is  gar-  landed  and  led  to  the  altar,  even  in  the  chapel  of  the  Theological  College.  THERE'S  enough  money  in  my  &amp;  father's  bank  account  to  cover  his  funeral  expenses.  Enough  to  bury  him,  as  they  say.  But  there  isn't  much  more.  There  are  no  stock  certificates  in  his  safe-deposit  box  and  no  record  of  investments.  Nothing.  No  bequest  to  the  hospital,  or  to  his  church.  Most  shocking  of  all,  there  is  no  money  left  to  Mrs.  Barrie.  The  house  and  its  con-  tents  are  mine.  And  that's  all  there  is.  I  have  my  five  thousand  dollars.  My  father's  lawyer  seems  embar-  rassed,  painfully  embarrassed  and  wor-  ried  about  this  state  of  affairs.  Perhaps  he  thinks  I  might  suspect  him  of  mis-  conduct.  Iry  to  blacken  his  name.  He  wants  to  know  if  there's  a  safe  in  my  (my  father's)  house,  any  hiding  place  at  all  for  a  large  amount  of  cash.  I  say  there  isn't.  He  tries  to  suggest  to  me-  in  such  a  discreet  and  roundabout  way  that  I  don't  know  at  first  what  he's  talking  about-that  there  might  be  reasons  for  my  father's  wanting  to  keep  the  amount  of  his  earnings  a  secret.  A  large  amount  of  cash  holed  away  somewhere  is  therefore  a  possibility.  &quot;Perhaps  you  could  go  home  and  take  a  very  good  look,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Don't  neglect  the  obvious  places.  It  could  be  in  acookie  tin.  Or  in  a  box  under  the  bed.  Surpris-  ing  the  places  people  can  pick.  Even  the  most  sensible  and  intelligent  people.&quot;  &quot;Or  in  a  pillow  slip,&quot;  he's  saying  as  I  go  out  the  door.  WOMAN  on  the  phone  wants  to  speak  to  the  doctor.  &quot;I'm  sorry.  He's  [REDACTED];  &quot;Have  I  got  the  right  doctor?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  I'm  sorry,  he's  [REDACTED];  &quot;Is  there  anyone-  Does  he  by  any  chance  have  a  partner  I  could  talk  to?  Is  there  anybody  else  there?&quot;  &quot;No.  No  partner.&quot;  &quot;Couldyou  give  me  any  other  num-  ber  I  could  call?Isn't  there  some  other  doctor  that  can-&quot;  &quot;No.  I  haven't  any  number.  There  isn't  anybody  that  I  know  of.&quot;  &quot;You  must  know  what  this  is  about.  It's  very  crucial.  There  are  very  special  circumstances&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;There  isn't  any  problem  about  money.  Please  try  to  think  of  some-  body.  If  you  do  think  of  somebody  later  on,  could  you  give  me  a  call?  I'll  leave  you  my  number.&quot;  &quot;You  shouldn't  do  that.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.  I  trust  you.  Anyway,  it's  not  for  myself.  I  know  everybody  must  say  that,  but  really  it's  not.  It's  for  my  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  24  &amp;  31,  1998  daughter,  who's  in  avery  bad  condition.  Mentally  she's  in  a  very  bad  condition.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;If  you  knew  what  I  went  through  to  get  this  number,  you  would  try  to  help  me.&quot;  &quot;Sorry.&quot;  &quot;Please.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;TERHAPS  he  didn't  always  charge,&quot;  I  say  to  the  lawyer.  &quot;Perhaps  he  worked  for  nothing  sometimes.&quot;  The  lawyer  is  getting  used  to  me  now.  He  says,  &quot;Perhaps.&quot;  &quot;Or  possibly  an  actual  charity,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;A  charity  he  supported  without  keep-  ing  any  record  of  it.&quot;  The  lawyer  holds  my  eyes  for  a  moment.  &quot;Well,  I  haven't  dug  up  the  cellar  floor  [REDACTED];  I  say,  and  he  smiles  wincingly  at  this  levity.  Mrs.  Barrie  hasn't  given  her  notice.  She  just  hasn't  shown  up.  There  was  nothing  in  particular  for  her  to  do,  since  the  funeral  was  in  the  church  and  the  reception  was  in  the  church  hall.  She  didn't  come  to  the  funeral.  None  of  her  family  came.  So  many  people  were  there  that  I  wouldn't  have  noticed,  if  some-  one  hadn't  said  to  me,  &quot;I  didn't  see  any  of  the  Barrie  connection,  did  you?&quot;  I  phoned  her  several  days  afterward  and  she  said,&quot;I  never  went  to  the  church  because  I  had  too  bad  a  cold.&quot;  I  said  that  that  wasn't  why  I'd  called.  I  said  I  could  manage  quite  well  but  wonderedwhat  she  planned  to  do.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  see  no  need  for  me  to  come  back  there  now.&quot;  I  said  that  she  should  come  and  get  something  from  the  house,  akeepsake.  I  wanted  to  tell  her  I  felt  bad  about  the  money.  But  I  didn't  know  how  to  say  that.  She  said,  &quot;I  got  some  stuff  I  left  there.  I'll  be  out  when  I  can.&quot;  She  came  out  the  next  morning.  The  things  she  had  to  collect  were  mops  and  pails  and  scrub  brushes  and  a  clothes  basket.  It  was  hard  to  believe  she  would  care  about  retrieving  articles  like  these.  And  hard  to  believe  she  wanted  them  for  sentimental  reasons,  but  maybe  she  did.  They  were  things  she  had  used  for  years-during  all  her  years  in  this  house.  &quot;Isn't  there  anything  else?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;For  a  keepsake?&quot;  She  looked  around  the  kitchen,  chewing  on  her  bottom  lip.  She  BEFORE  THE  CHANGE  might  have  been  chewing  back  a  smile.  &quot;I  don't  think  there's  nothing  here  I'd  have  much  use  for,&quot;  she  said.  I  had  a  check  ready  for  her.  I  just  needed  to  write  in  the  amount.  I  hadn't  been  able  to  decide  how  much  of  the  five  thousand  dollars  to  share  with  her.  A  thousand?  Now  that  seemed  shame-  ful.  I  thought  I'd  better  double  it.  I  gotout  the  check,  which  I  had  hid-  den  in  a  drawer.  I  found  apen.  I  made  it  out  for  four  thousand  dollars.  &quot;This  is  for  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  thank  you  for  everything.&quot;  She  took  the  check  in  her  hand  and  glanced  at  it  and  stuffed  it  in  her  pocket.  I  thought  maybe  she  hadn't  been  able  to  read  how  much  it  was  for.  Then  I  saw  the  darkening  flush,  the  tide  of  embar-  rassment,  the  difficulty  of  being  grateful.  She  managed  to  pick  up  all  the  things  she  was  taking,  usingher  one  good  arm.  I  opened  the  door  for  her.  I  was  so  anx-  ious  for  her  to  say  something  more  that  I  almost  said,  &quot;Sorry  that's  all.&quot;  Instead  I  said,  &quot;Your  elbow's  not  bet-  ter  yet?&quot;  &quot;It'll  never  be  better,&quot;  she  said.  She  ducked  her  head  as  if  she  were  afraid  of  another  of  my  kisses.  She  said,  &quot;Well-  thanks-very-much-goodbye.&quot;  I  watched  her  making  her  way  to  the  car.  But  it  was  not  the  usual  car.  The  thought  crossed  my  mind  that  she  might  have  a  new  employer.  Bad  arm  or  not.  A  new  and  rich  employer.  That  would  account  for  her  haste,  her  cranky  embarrassment.  But  it  was  the  nephew's  wife  who  got  out  to  help  with  the  load.  I  waved,  but  she  was  too  busy  stowing  the  mops  and  pails.  &quot;Gorgeous  car,&quot;  I  called  out,  because  I  thought  that  was  a  compliment  both  women  would  appreciate.  I  didn't  know  what  make  it  was,  but  it  was  new  and  large  and  glamorous.  A  silvery  lilac  color.  Shivering  in  my  indoor  clothes,  I  stood  there  and  waved  the  car  out  of  sight.  I  couldn't  settle  down  to  do  any-  thing  after  that.  I  decided  to  go  out  skiing.  I  put  on  the  old  wooden  skis  that  my  father  used  to  wear  in  the  days  when  the  back  roads  were  not  plowed  out  in  winter  and  he  might  have  to  go  across  the  fields  to  de-  liver  a  baby  or  take  out  an  appendix.  There  were  only  cross-straps  to  hold  your  feetin  place.  I  skied  back  to  the  gravel  pits  at  the  back  of  our  property.  The  slopes  have  been  padded  with  grass  over  the  years  and  now  they're  covered  with  snow.  There  were  dog  tracks  and  bird  tracks,  but  no  sign  of  humans.  I  went  up  and  down,  up  and  down.  I  fell  now  and  then  on  the  fresh  plentiful  snow,  and  between  one  moment  of  falling  and  the  next  of  getting  to  my  feet  I  found  out  that  I  knew  something.  I  knew  where  the  money  had  gone.  Gorgeous  car.  A  charity.  And  four  thousand  dollars  out  of  five.  INCE  that  moment  I've  been  happy.  I  have  the  feeling  of  seeing  money  thrown  over  a  bridge  or  high  up  into  the  air.  Money,  hopes,  love  letters-all  such  things  can  be  tossed  into  the  air.  The  thing  I  can't  imagine  is  my  father  caving  into  blackmail.  Particularly  not  to  peo-  ple  who  wouldn't  be  very  credible  or  clever.  Not  when  the  whole  town  seems  to  be  on  his  side,  or  at  least  on  the  side  of  silence.  What  I  can  imagine,  though,  is  a  grand  perverse  gesture.  To  forestall  de-  mand,  maybe,  or  just  to  show  he  didn't  care.  Looking  forward  to  the  lawyer's  shock,  and  to  my  trying  even  harder  to  figure  him  out,  oncehe  was  dead.  No.  I  don't  think  he'd  be  thinking  of  that.  I  don't  think  I'd  have  come  into  his  thoughts  so  much.Never  so  much  as  I'd  like  to  believe.  What  I've  been  shying  away  from  is  that  it  could  have  been  done  for  love.  Never  rule  that  out.  I  CLIMBED  out  of  the  gravel  pit  and  as  soon  as  I  came  out  on  the  fields  the  wind  hit  me.  Wind  was  blowing  snow  over  the  resolute  dog  tracks  and  the  faint  circles  made  by  a  skittering  vole  and  the  trail  that  will  likely  be  the  last  ever  to  be  broken  by  my  father's  skis.  Dear  Robin-  What  should  be  the  last  thing  I  say  to  you?  Goodbye  and  good  luck.  I  send  you  my  love.  (What  if  people  really  did  that-sent  their  love  through  the  mail  to  get  rid  of  it?  What  would  it  be  that  they  sent?  A  heap  of  roses  still  more  fragrant  than  rot-  ten.  A  package  wrapped  in  bloody  news-  paper  that  nobody  would  want  to  open.)  Take  care  of  yourself.  Remember-the  present  King  of  [REDACTED]  is  bald. 