ONE  hill  after  another,  this  bumpy  flight.  My  view  is  of  the  void.  If  anyone  asked,  I  could  make  known  my  opinion  of  these  seat  covers.  Or  watch  the  beverage  cart  take  for-  ever.  How  does  it  fit,  coming  down  the  aisle?  Eight  inches-I'm  measuring  with  my  eyes.  Four  inches  on  each  side.  Christian,  asleep  in  the  middle  seat  next  to  me,  agreed  to  come  along  on  this  [REDACTED]  trip,  travel  up  and  back  with  me,  on  my  dime.  I  can  see  the  little  tat-  too  inside  his  right  forearm,  from  his  Navy  SEAL  days:  a  face  that  looks  like  maybe  Magellan  above  a  map  of  some  ocean  or  other.  He's  not  quite  my  boy-  friend.  He's  been  divorced  three  years  but  remains  in  love  with  her.  She's  al-  ways  on  his  mind:  Midge.  I'm  famished.  I  bought  cashews,  so  where  are  they?  Christian  comes  out  of  his  troubled  sleep  and  says  he  feels  rejuvenated.  He  doesn't  realize  his  face  is  stained  with  tears.  The  woman  across  the  aisle  is  rip-  ping  perfume  cards  out  of  the  free  mag-  azines.  She's  also  ignoring  her  child,  who's  saying,  &quot;Mom,  remember  that  girl?  Mom,  Mom.  That  girl,  remem-  ber?&quot;  If  I  were  the  child,  I'd  stop  that  this  minute  and  look  out  the  window.  Those  weird  little  metal  blades  sticking  up  from  the  wing  top.  Over  there  will  be  [REDACTED]  McKinley.  Or  Denali.  Whatever.  My  snack  from  the  cart  is  a  bar  of  old  banana  cake,  stuck  to  its  cellophane;  tough  like  a  sponge.  Where  are  my  cashews?  Why  didn't  I  bring  ninety-five  dollars'  worth  of  snacks?  Perhaps  Christian  could  use  some  ad-  vice  on  forgetting  Midge.  &quot;Detach-or  at  least  reevaluate,&quot;  I  tell  him.  &quot;Focus  on  her  bad  features.  That  annoying  fakey  laugh.&quot;  &quot;You  think  it's  fzke?&quot;  he  asks.     FICTION  WHAT  I  HEAR  Flying  to  a  daughter  in  need.     BY  MARY  ROBISON  &quot;To  me,  yes.  Maybe  not.  What  about  her  parting  words  to  you?  When  she  said  you  were  a  lizard?&quot;  &quot;She  did?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  don't  remember  that.  Midge  called  me  a  lizard?&quot;  &quot;It's  what  people  told  me,&quot;  1  say  as  he  starts  to  puddle  up.  Below  us  there  are  mountains  now,  glinting  with  sunfire,  grouped  around  Anchorage.  It  looks  like  a  brooch.  &quot;It's  not  about  you,&quot;  Christian  says.  That's  probably  true.  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  begin,  and  he  does-looks  at  me.  &quot;What  about  the  time  you  called  and  Midge  pretended  she  was  someone  else  on  the  phone?  Pretended  she  didn't  know  you?&quot;  He  waves  his  hand  to  stop  me.  In  some  ways,  this  entire  flight  has  been  something  to  forget.  ON  the  bus  ride  to  our  hotel,  Chris-  tian  reads  aloud  some  stuff  from  a  folder.  &quot;Edged  by  the  fierce  beauty  of  the  Chugach  and  the  waters  of  Cook  Inlet,  Anchorage  is  cosmopolitanbut  with  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  wild  always  at  its  back.'&quot;  &quot;Plus  it's  eighty-two  degrees  and  only  June,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Look,  there's  a  Kinko's.  Hey,  an  Eyewitness  News  truck.  And-  oop,  a  Cirrus  machine.&quot;  We  stop  and  let  off  some  passengers,  but  Christian  and  I  stay  on,  headed  for  our  hotel:  the  Wallchart  or  the  Wood-  work.  I  can't  get  the  name  right.  It's  still  daylight,  of  course-one  of  their  days-but  only  fora  few  hours  more.  Christian  asks  me  about  Pammie,  my  daughter.  It's  funny:  she's  the  whole  reason  I've  come  here  but  this  is  the  first  time  either  of  us  has  mentioned  her  name.  STILL  the  same  daylight,  but  now  it's  another  day.  Christian  looks  groomed  and  handsome,  and  even  seems  glad  to  be  here.  He  excuses  him-  self  and  disappears-off,  he  says,  to  ask  the  way  to  Matanuska,  the  home  of  the  softball-size  radish.  I  have  coffee  and-  I  can't  put  it  off-go  to  see  Pammie.  Here  in  the  tiny  box  of  a  house  she  never  leaves.  She  wears  a  coat  indoors,  and  cheap  red  boots.  Her  legs  are  bare,  I  notice.  We  don't  really  talk.  She's  busily  scribbling  notes  in  a  college  note-  book  while  she  watches  the  TV-a  black-and-white  seventies  portable,  older  than  she  is.  The  picture  is  a  muck  of  gray  halftones.  There's  no  black  or  white.  Pammie  doesn't  want  me  to  re-  place  the  TV  or  buy  her  better  red  boots,  or  to  saythat  everything  else  in  her  life  is  trash  that  should  be  hauled  off  to  the  dump.  She  wants  me  to  stay  seated,  here  on  this  futon  chair,  and  get  interestedin  this  cartoon  show.  A  Heckle  and  Jeckle.  I  try  to.  I  do.  And  time  goes  by.  She  got  off  track,  it'll  be  a  year  ago  this  October.  Since  one  night  when  she  was  sitting  here,  a  perfectly  normal,  only  a  little  bit  messed  up  junior-year  an-  thropology  major,  holed  up  here  study-  ing  for  comps.  A  crazy  man  crashed  in,  nobody  she  knew.  He  smashed  furni-  ture,  broke  her  eyeglasses,  broke  her  wrist,  broke  her  cheekbone,  three  of  her  teeth.  Then  he  left,  got  away.  The  doc-  tors  did  a  great  job;  gave  her  a  new  face,  if  not  quite  hers.  &quot;Am  I  bothering  you?&quot;  I  ask  her.  If  I  am,  she  doesn't  say.  Should  I  ask  her  again  to  open  these  crinkly  presents  I've  brought?  She's  in  something  like  pain  when  it  comes  to  opening  gifts,  so  I  re-  ally  have  to  think.  Or  I  can  be  quiet.  I  don't  need  entertainment.  That  pretty  hair  barrette  is  sliding  down.  No,  I  won't  touch  it.  THE  taxi-driver  taking  me  back  to  the  airport  smiles  around  and  asks,  &quot;Who  am  I?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Guess  my  name,&quot;  he  says.  y  Fa  FILIP  PAGOW  &quot;Ah,  let  me  see-&quot;  It  could  be  any-  thing.  &quot;Sidney?&quot;  I  say.  Wherever  that  guess  came  from,  he's  nodding.  &quot;You  saw  my  license,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;So,  something  harder.  My  birth  sign.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  Gemini&quot;  comes  out  of  my  mouth,  and  Sidney  nods.  He's  not  so  happy  this  time.  He  says,  &quot;I  bet  you  have  a  boyfriend  who's  informed  about  that  stuff.&quot;  I  spend  the  rest  of  the  steamy  ride  trying  to  figure  that  one  out.  As  we  pull  up  at  the  Departing  Flights  curb,  Sid-  ney  consults  his  wristwatch  and  says,  &quot;Fast.&quot;  The  cab  putters  off  and  I  look  around  for  Christian,  who  must  have  been  surprised  when  he  came  back  to  the  hotel  and  found  my  message  telling  him  we  were  heading  back  so  soon.  Check  out,  Isaid.  Meet  you  at  the  [REDACTED]  counter.  I'd  turned  chicken-  anybody  could  see  that.  It's  half  night,  finally,  though  there's  still  a  ghostly  sun  above  the  trees.  A  little  thing,  my  guessing  Sidney,  but  my  elation  over  itis  big.  HOURS  we've  been  waiting  atthis  gate.  I've  skipped  sleep.  Our  flight  will  be  across  the  whole  country  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;You  don't  make  me  feel  important,&quot;  Christian  says,  slumped  in  his  plastic  scoop  chair.  I'm  won-  dering,  Does  he  want  me  to  correct  that?  Now?  &quot;We'll  need  doughnuts,&quot;  he  says,  and  I  don't  ask  or  argue.  His  shoul-  ders  are  sagging  as  he  drifts  on  down  the  concourse.  In  the  mint  lighting  it  all  looks  like  colorized  film  there.  He  should  lighten  up.  None  of  this  is  about  him.  I  get  up  and  leave  his  plane  ticket  on  top  of  his  Jimi  Hendrix  magazine,  but  hidden  under  his  cap,  where  he'll  find  it.  He  can  sell  the  ticket  or  use  it  and  leave.  He  has  my  number  at  home.  Beside  the  luggage  lockers  is  a  postal  machine.  I  buy  all  the  Mary  Cassatt  stamps  it'll  put  out.  Some  Raoul  Wal-  lenbergs.  The  red  [REDACTED]  O'Keeffe.  My,  what  a  pretty  stamp.  I  feed  in  bill  after  bill  on  those.  I'm  going  to  be  up  here  for  a  bit,  not  flying  anywhere.  She  should  be  afraid  of  a  lot  of  people,  butnot  afraid  of  me.  It's  like  I  can  hear  my  parents  calling,  my  mom  saying,  &quot;Get  up,  honey.  You've  been  asleep  for  a  while.  Honey.  Honey  bunch.  You  want  to  get  up.&quot; 