Ira  Ringold's  older  brother,  Murray,  was  my  first  high-school  English  teacher,  and  it  was  through  him  that  I  hooked  up  with  Ira.  In  1946  Murray  was  just  back  from  the  Army,  where  he'd  served  with  the  17th  Airborne  Division  at  the  Battle  of  the  Bulge;  in  March,  1945,  he'd  made  the  famous  jump  across  the  Rhine  which  sig-  nalled  the  beginning  of  the  end  of  the  European  war.  He  was,  in  those  days,  a  crusty,  brash,  bald-headed  guy,  not  as  tall  as  Ira  but  rangy  and  athletic,  who  hov-  eredover  our  heads  in  a  perpetual  state  of  awareness.  He  was  altogether  natural  in  his  manner  and  posture  while  in  his  speech  verbally  copious  and  intellectually  almost  menacing.  His  passion  was  to  ex-  plain,  to  clarify,  to  make  us  understand,  with  the  result  that  every  last  subject  we  talked  about  he  broke  down  into  its  prin-  cipal  elements  no  less  meticulously  than  he  diagrammed  sentences  on  the  black-  board.  His  special  talent  was  for  drama-  tizing  inquiry,  for  casting  a  strong  narra-  tive  spell  even  when  he  was  being  strictly  analytic  and  scrutinizing  aloud,  in  his  clear-cut  way,  what  we  read  and  wrote.  Along  with  the  brawn  and  the  con-  spicuous  braininess,  Mr.  Ringold  brought  with  him  into  the  classroom  a  charge  of  visceral  spontaneity  that  was  a  revelation  to  tamed,  respectabilized  kids  who  were  yet  to  comprehend  that  obeying  a  teach-  er's  rules  of  decorum  had  nothing  to  do  with  mental  development.  There  was  more  importance  than  perhaps  even  he  imagined  in  his  winning  predilection  for  heaving  a  blackboard  eraser  in  your  direc-  tion  when  the  answer  you  gave  didn't  hit  FICTION  COMMUNIST  BY  PHILIP  ROTH     the  mark.  Or  maybe  there  wasn't.  Maybe  Mr.  Ringold  knew  very  well  that  what  boys  like  me  needed  to  learn  was  not  only  how  to  express  themselves  with  precision  and  acquire  a  more  discerning  response  to  words  but  how  to  be  rambunctious  without  being  stupid,  how  not  to  be  too  well  concealed  ortoowell  behaved,  how  to  begin  to  release  the  masculine  intensi-  ties  from  the  institutional  rectitude  that  intimidated  the  bright  kids  the  most.  You  felt,  in  the  sexual  sense,  the  power  of  a  male  high-school  teacher  like  Mur-  ray  Ringold-masculine  authority  uncor-  rected  by  piety-and  you  felt,  in  the  priestly  sense,  the  vocation  of  a  male  high-school  teacher  like  Murray  Ringold,  who  wasn't  lost  in  the  amorphous  Amer-  ican  aspiration  to  make  it  big,  who-un-  like  the  school's  women  teachers-could  have  chosen  to  be  almost  anything  else  and  chose  instead,  forhis  life's  work,  to  be  ours.  All  he  wanted  all  day  long  was  to  deal  with  young  people  he  could  influ-  ence,  and  his  biggest  kick  in  life  he  got  from  their  response.  Not  that  the  impression  his  bold  classroom  style  left  on  my  sense  of  free-  dom  was  apparent  at  the  time;  no  kid  thought  that  way  about  school  orteach-  ers  or  himself.  An  incipient  craving  for  social  independence,  however,  had  to  have  been  nourished  somewhat  by  Mur-  ray's  example,  and  I  told  him  this  when,  in  July,  1997,  for  the  first  time  since  I  graduated  from  high  school,  in  1950,  I  ran  into  Murray,  now  ninety  years  old  but  in  every  discernible  way  still  the  teacher  whose  task  is  realistically,  without  self-  parody  or  inflating  dramatics,  to  person-  ify  for  his  students  the  maverick  dictum  &quot;I  don't  give  a  good  God  damn,&quot;  to  teach  them  that  you  don't  have  to  be  Al  Ca-  pone  to  transgress-you  just  have  to  think.  &quot;In  human  society,&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  taught  us,  &quot;thinking's  the  greatest  trans-  gression  of  all.&quot;  &quot;Cri-ti-cal  think-ing,&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  said,  using  his  knuckles  to  rap  out  each  of  the  syllables  on  his  desk-  top-&quot;there  is  the  ultimate  subversion.&quot;  I  told  Murray  that  hearing  this  early  on  from  a  manly  guy  like  him-seeing  it  demonstrated  by  him-provided  the  most  valuable  clue  to  growing  up  that  I  had  clutched  at,  albeit  half  comprehend-  ingly,  as  a  provincial,  protected,  high-  minded  high-school  kid  yearning  to  be  rational  and  of  consequence  and  free.  Murray,  in  turn,  told  me  everything  that,  as  a  youngster,  I  didn't  know  and  couldn't  have  known  about  his  brother's  private  life,  a  grave  misfortune  replete  with  farce  over  which  Murray  would  sometimes  find  himself  brooding  even  though  Ira  was  dead  now  more  than  thirty  years.  &quot;Thousands  and  thousands  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  destroyed  in  those  years,  political  casualties,  historical  casualties,  because  of  their  beliefs,&quot;  Murray  said.  &quot;But  I  don't  remember  anybody  else  be-  ing  brought  down  quite  the  way  that  Ira  was.  It  wasn't  on  the  great  556e6974656420537461746573n  bat-  tlefield  he  would  himself  have  chosen  for  his  destruction.  Maybe,  despite  ideology,  politics,  and  history,  a  genuine  catastro-  phe  is  always  personal  bathos  at  the  core.  Life  can't  be  impugned  for  any  failure  to  trivialize  people.  You  have  to  take  your  hat  off  to  life  for  the  techniques  at  its  dis-  posal  to  strip  a  man  of  his  significance  and  empty  him  totally  of  his  pride.&quot;  Murray  also  told  me,  when  I  asked,  how  he  had  been  stripped  of  Jis  signifi-  cance.  In  '55,  almost  four  years  after  Ira  was  blacklisted  from  radio  for  being  a  Communist,  Murray  had  been  dismissed  from  his  teaching  job  by  the  Board  of  Education  for  refusing  to  cooperate  with  the  House  Un-556e6974656420537461746573n  Activities  Committee  when  it  had  come  through  [REDACTED]  for  four  days  of  hearings.  He  was  reinstated,  but  only  after  a  six-year  legal  struggle  that  ended  ina  4-3  decision  by  the  state  supreme  court,  reinstated  with  back  pay,  minus  the  amount  of  money  he  had  earned  supporting  his  family  those  six  years  as  a  vacuum  salesman.  &quot;When  you  don't  know  what  else  to  do,&quot;  Murray  said  with  a  smile,  &quot;you  sell  &amp;  vacuum  cleaners.  Door  to  door.  Kirbyg  vacuum  cleaners.  You  spill  a  full  ashtray  &amp;  onto  the  carpet  and  then  you  vacuum  it  2     up  for  them.  You  vacuum  the  house  for  them.  That's  how  you  sell  the  thing.  Vac-  uumed  half  the  houses  in  New  Jersey  in  my  day.  Look,  I  had  a  lot  of  well-wishers,  Nathan.  I  had  a  wife  whose  medical  ex-  penses  were  constant,  and  we  had  a  child,  but  I  was  getting  a  pretty  good  amount  of  business  and  I  sold  a  lot  of  people  vac-  uum  cleaners.  And  despite  her  scoliosis  problems,  Doris  went  back  to  work.  She  went  back  to  the  lab  at  the  hospital.  Did  the  blood  work.  Eventually  ran  the  lab.  She  used  to  come  home  from  the  Beth  [REDACTED],  just  across  the  street  from  us,  and  cook  dinner  in  her  lab  coat.  Ours  was  the  only  family  I  ever  knew  of  whose  salad  dressing  was  served  in  laboratory  flasks.  The  Erlenmeyer  flask.  We  stirred  our  coffee  with  pipettes.  All  our  glassware  was  from  the  lab.  When  we  were  on  our  uppers,  Doris  made  ends  meet.  Together  we  were  ableto  tackle  it.&quot;  &quot;And  how  did  Ira  take  this  happening  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it  distressed  him.  I'd  go  as  far  as  to  say  it  ruined  him  had  he  not  already  been  ruined  by  everything  else.  I  was  confident  all  along  that  I  was  going  to  win,  and  I  told  this  to  him.  They  had  no  legal  reasons  for  firing  me.  He  kept  say-  ing,  'You're  kiddin'  yourself.  They  don't  need  legal  reasons.'  He  knew  of  too  many  guys  who  had  been  fired,  period.  Eventu-  ally  I  won,  but  he  felt  responsible  for  what  I  went  through.  He  carried  it  around  with  him  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  About  you,  too,  you  know.  About  what  happened  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Me?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Nothing  happened  to  me.  I  was  a  kid.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  something  happened  to  you.&quot;  Of  course  it  should  not  be  too  sur-  prising  to  find  out  that  your  life  story  has  included  an  event,  something  important,  that  you  have  known  nothing  about-  your  life  story  is  in  and  of  itself  some-  thing  that  you  know  very  little  about.  &quot;If  you  remember,&quot;  Murray  said,  &quot;when  you  graduated  from  college  you  didn't  get  a  Fulbright?  That  was  because  of  my  brother.&quot;  In  1953-54,  my  last  year  at  [REDACTED],  I'd  applied  for  a  Fulbright  to  do  graduate  work  in  literature  at  Oxford  and  been  turned  down.  I  had  been  near  the  top  of  my  class,  had  enthusiastic  recommenda-  tions,  and,  as  I  now  remembered  it-for  the  first  time,  probably,  since  it  hap-  pened-was  shocked  not  only  at  being  turned  down  but  because  a  Fulbright  to  study  literature  in  England  went  to  a  fellow-student  who  was  well  below  me  in  class  standing.  &quot;This  true,  Murray?  I  just  thought  it  was  screwy,  unfair.  The  fickleness  of  fate.  I  didn't  know  what  to  think.  I  wuz  robbed,  I  thought-and  then  I  got  drafted.  How  do  you  know  this  is  so?&quot;  &quot;The  agent  told  Ira.  The  EB.I.  He  was  on  Ira  for  years.  Stopping  around  to  visit  him.  Coming  around  to  try  to  get  him  to  name  names.  Told  him  that's  how  he  could  clear  himself.  They  had  you  down  for  Ira's  nephew.&quot;  &quot;His  nephew?  How  come  his  nephew?&quot;  &quot;Don't  ask  me.  The  F.B.I.  didn't  al-  ways  get  everything  right.  Maybe  they  didn't  always  want  to  get  everything  right.  The  guy  told  Ira,  'You  know  your  nephew  who  applied  for  a  Fulbright?  The  kid  in  [REDACTED]?  Zuckerman?  He  didn't  get  it  because  of  your  being  a  Communist.'&quot;  &quot;You  think  that  was  true.&quot;  &quot;No  doubt  about  it.&quot;  LL  the  while  I  was  listening  to  Mur-  ray-and  looking  at  the  needle  of  a  man  he'd  become  and  thinking  of  this  physique  as  the  materialization  of  all  that  coherence  of  his,  as  the  conse-  quence  of  a  lifelong  indifference  to  every-  thing  other  than  liberty  in  its  most  austere  sense  ...  thinking  that  Murray  was  an  es-  sentialist,  that  his  character  wasn't  contin-  gent,  that  wherever  he'd  found  himself,  even  selling  vacuum  cleaners,  he'd  man-  aged  tofind  his  dignity  ...  thinking  that  Murray  (whom  I  didn't  love  or  have  to;  with  whom  there  was  just  the  contract,  teacher  and  student)  was  Ira  (whom  I  did  love)  in  a  more  mental,  sensible,  matter-  of-fact  version,  Ira  with  a  practical,  clear,  well-defined  social  goal,  Ira  without  the  heroically  exaggerated  ambitions,  without  that  passionate,  overheated  relationship  to  everything,  Ira  unblurred  by  impulse  and  the  argument  with  everything-I  had  a  picture  in  my  mind  of  Murray's  un-  clothed  upper  torso,  still  blessed  (when  he  was  already  forty-one)  with  all  the  signs  of  youth  and  strength.  The  picture  I  had  was  of  Murray  Ringold  as  I  had  seen  him  late  one  Tuesday  afternoon  in  the  fall  of  1948,  leaning  out  the  window  and  removing  the  screens  from  the  second-  floor  apartment  where  he  lived  with  his  wife  and  daughter  on  Lehigh  Avenue.  Across  the  street  was  the  Beth  [REDACTED]  Hospital,  where  I  knew  Mrs.  Ringold  had  worked  as  a  lab  assistant  before  their  daughter  was  born,  and  around  the  cor-  ner  was  the  Osborne  Terrace  branch  Ii-  5T  brary,  where  I  used  to  bicycle  for  a  weekly  supply  of  books.  The  hospital,  the  library,  and,  as  represented  by  my  teacher,  the  school:  the  neighborhood's  institutional  nexus  was  all  reassuringly  present  for  me  in  virtually  that  one  square  block.  Yes,  the  everyday  workability  of  neighborhood  life  was  in  full  swing  on  that  afternoon  in  1948  when  I  sawMr.  Ringold  hanging  out  overthe  sill  undoing  a  screen  from  the  front  window.  As  I  braked  to  descend  the  steep  Lehigh  Avenue  hill,  I  watched  him  thread  a  rope  through  one  of  the  screen's  corner  hooks  and  then,  after  calling  down  &quot;Here  she  comes,&quot;  lower  it  along  the  face  of  the  two-and-a-half-story  building  to  a  man  in  the  garden,  who  undid  the  rope  and  set  the  screen  onto  a  pile  stacked  against  the  brick  stoop.  I  was  struck  by  the  way  Mr.  Ringold  performed  an  act  that  was  both  athletic  and  practical.  To  perform  that  act  as  gracefully  as  he  did  you  had  to  be  very  strong.  When  I  got  to  the  house  I  saw  that  the  man  in  the  garden  was  a  giant  wear-  ing  glasses.  It  was  Ira.  It  was  the  brother  who  had  come  to  our  high  school,  to  &quot;Auditorium,&quot;  to  portray  Abe  Lincoln.  He'd  appeared  on  the  stagein  costume  and,  standing  all  alone,  delivered  Lin-  coln's  Gettysburg  Address  and  then  the  Second  Inaugural,  concluding  with  what  Mr.  Ringold,  the  orator's  brother,  later  told  us  was  as  noble  and  beautiful  a  sen-  tence  as  any  556e6974656420537461746573n  President,  as  any  556e6974656420537461746573n  writer,  had  ever  written  (a  long,  chugging  locomotive  of  a  sentence,  its  tail  end  a  string  of  weighty  cabooses,  that  he  then  made  us  diagram  and  ana-  lyze  and  discussfor  an  entire  class  pe-  riod):  &quot;With  malice  toward  none,  with  charity  for  all,  with  firmness  in  the  right  as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,  let  us  strive  on  to  finish  the  work  we  are  in,  to  bind  up  the  nation's  wounds,  to  care  for  him  who  shall  have  borne  the  battle  and  for  his  widow  and  his  orphan,  to  do  all  which  may  achieve  and  cherish  a  just  and  a  lasting  peace  among  ourselves  and  with  all  nations.&quot;  For  the  rest  of  the  program,  Abraham  Lincoln  removed  his  stovepipe  hat  and  debated  the  pro-slavery  senator  Stephen  A.  Douglas,  whose  lines  (the  most  insidiously  anti-Negro  of  which  a  group  of  students-we  members  of  an  extracurricular  discussion  group  called  the  Contemporary  Club-loudly  booed)  were  read  by  Murray  Ringold,  who  had  arranged  for  Iron  Rinn  to  visit  the  school.  As  if  it  weren't  disorienting  enough  to     58  see  Mr.  Ringold  out  in  public  without  a  shirt  and  tie-without  even  an  under-  shirt-Iron  Rinn  wasn't  wearing  any  more  than  a  prizefighter.  Shorts,  sneak-  ers,  that  was  it.  All  but  naked,  not  only  the  biggest  man  I'd  ever  seen  up  close  but  the  most  famous.  Iron  Rinnwas  heard  on  network  radio  every  Thursday  night  on&quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave&quot;-a  popular  weekly  dramatization  of  inspiring  epi-  sodes  out  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  history-imper-  sonating  people  like  Nathan  Hale  and  Orville  Wright  and  Wild  Bill  Hickok  and  Jack  [REDACTED].  In  real  life,  he  was  married  to  Eve  Frame,  the  leading  lady  of  the  weekly  repertory  playhouse  for  &quot;seri-  ous&quot;  drama  called  &quot;The  556e6974656420537461746573n  Radio  Theatre.&quot;  The  Tuesday  that  I  first  met  Ira  was  Tuesday,  October  12,  1948.  Had  the  World  Series  not  just  ended  on  Monday,  I  might,  timorously,  out  of  deference  to  my  teacher's  privacy,  have  speeded  onby  the  house  and,  without  even  waving  or  shouting  hello,  turned  left  at  the  corner  onto  Osborne  Terrace.  As  it  happened,  however,  the  day  before  I  had  listened  to  the  Indians  beat  the  old  [REDACTED]  Braves  in  the  final  game  of  the  Series  from  the  floor  of  Mr.  Ringold's  office.  He  had  brought  a  radio  with  him  that  morning,  and  after  school  those  whose  families  didn't  yet  own  a  television  set-the  vast  majority  of  us-were  invited  to  spill  di-  rectly  out  of  his  eighth-period  English  class  and  down  the  hall  to  crowd  into  the  English  department  chairman's  little  of-  fice  to  hear  the  game,  which  was  already  under  way  at  Braves  Field.  Courtesy,  then,  necessitated  that  I  slow  way,  way  down  and  call  out  to  him,  &quot;Mr.  Ringold-thanks  for  yesterday.&quot;  Courtesy  necessitated  that  I  nod  and  smile  at  the  giant  in  his  yard.  And-with  a  dry  mouth,  stiffly-stop  and  introduce  myself.  And  respond  a  little  daffily  when  he  startled  me  by  saying,  &quot;How  ya'  doin',  buddy,&quot;  by  replying  that  on  the  afternoon  he'd  appeared  at  Auditorium  I'd  been  one  of  the  boys  who  had  booed  Stephen  A.  Douglas  when  he  announced  into  Lin-  coln's  face,  &quot;I  am  opposed  to  Negro  citi-  zenship  in  any  and  every  form.  [Boo.]  I  believe  this  government  was  made  on  a  white  basis.  [Boo.]  I  believe  it  was  made  for  white  men  [Boo],  for  the  benefit  of  white  men  [Boo],  and  their  posterity  for-  ever.  [Boo.]  I  am  in  favor  of  confining  citizenship  to  white  men  ...  instead  of  conferring  it  upon  Negroes,  Indians,  and  other  inferior  races.  [Boo.  Boo.  Boo.]&quot;  Something  rooted  deeper  than  mere  courtesy  (ambition,  the  ambition  to  be  admired  for  my  moral  conviction)  prompted  me  to  find  the  nerve  to  break  through  theshyness  and  tell  him,  tell  the  trinity  of  Iras,  all  three  of  him-the  pa-  triot  martyr  of  the  podium  Abraham  Lincoln,  the  natural,  hardy  556e6974656420537461746573n  of  the  airwaves  Iron  Rinn,  and  the  re-  deemed  roughneck  from  [REDACTED]'s  First  Ward  Ira  Ringold-that  it  was  I  who  had  instigated  the  booing.  Mr.  Ringold  came  down  the  stairs  from  the  second-floor  flat,  sweating  heavily,  wearing  just  khaki  trousers  and  a  pair  of  moccasins.  Right  behind  him  came  Mrs.  Ringold,  who,  before  retreat,  ing  back  upstairs,  set  out  a  tray  with  a  pitcher  of  ice  water  and  three  glasses.  And  so  it  was-4:30  PM.,  October  12,  1948,  a  blazing-hot  autumn  day  and  the  most  astonishing  afternoon  of  my  young  life-that  I  tipped  my  bike  onto  its  side  and  sat  on  the  steps  of  my  English  teacher's  stoop  with  Iron  Rinn  of  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave,&quot;  discussing  a  World  Series  in  which  Bob  Feller  had  lost  two  games-unbelievable-and  Larry  Doby,  the  pioneering  black  player  in  the  Amer-  ican  League,  whom  we  all  admired,  but  not  the  way  we  admired  Jackie  Robin-  son,  had  gone  seven  for  twenty-two.  Then  we  were  talking  about  boxing:  Louis  knocking  out  Jersey  Joe  Walcott  when  Walcott  was  way  ahead  on  points;  Tony  Zale  regaining  the  middleweight  title  from  43616e616461Graziano  right  in  New-  ark,at  Ruppert  Stadium  in  June,  crush-  ing  him  with  a  left  in  the  third  round,  and  then  losing  it  to  a  Frenchman,  Mar-  cel  Cerdan,  over  in  Jersey  City  a  couple  of  weeks  back,  in  September.  And  then,  from  talkingto  me  about  Tony  Zale  one  minute,  Iron  Rinn  was  talkingto  me  about  Winston  Churchill  the  next,  about  a  speech  that  Churchill  had  made  a  few  days  earlier  that  had  him  boiling,  a  speech  advising  the  United  [REDACTED]  not  to  destroy  its  atomic-bomb  reserve  because  -DANIELHOFFMAN  the  atomic  bomb  was  all  that  prevented  the  Communists  from  dominating  the  world.  He  talked  about  Winston  Chur-  chill  the  way  he  talked  about  Leo  Duro-  cher  and  Marcel  Cerdan.  He  called  Churchill  a  reactionary  bastard  and  a  warmonger  with  nomore  hesitation  than  he  called  Durocher  a  loudmouth  and  Cerdan  a  bum.  He  talked  about  Chur-  chill  as  though  Churchill  ran  the  gas  sta-  tion  out  on  Lyons  Avenue.  It  wasn't  how  we  talked  about  Winston  Churchill  in  my  house.  It  was  closer  to  how  we  talked  about  Hitler.  In  his  conversation,  as  in  his  brother's,  there  was  no  invisible  line  of  propriety  observed  and  there  were  no  conventional  taboos.  You  could  stir  to-  gether  anything  and  everything:  sports,  politics,  history,  literature,  reckless  opin-  ionating,  polemical  quotation,  idealistic  sentiment,  moral  rectitude  .  ..  Therewas  something  marvellously  bracing  about  it,  a  different  and  dangerous  world,  de-  manding,  straightforward,  aggressive,  freed  from  the  need  to  please.  And  freed  from  school.  Iron  Rinn  wasn't  just  a  radio  star.  He  was  somebody  outside  the  class-  room  who  was  not  afraid  to  say  anything.  I  had  just  finished  reading  about  somebody  else  who  wasn't  afraid  tosay  Thomas  Paine-and  the  book  I'd  read,  a  historical  novel  by  Howard  Fast  called  &quot;Citizen  Tom  Paine,&quot;  was  one  of  the  collection  in  my  bicycle  basket  that  I  was  returning  to  the  library.  While  Ira  was  denouncing  Churchill  to  me,  Mr.  Ringold  had  stepped  over  to  where  the  books  had  tumbled  from  the  basket  onto  the  pavement  at  the  foot  of  the  stoop  and  was  looking  at  their  spines  to  see  what  I  was  reading.  Half  the  books  were  about  baseball  and  were  byJohn  R.  Tunis,  and  the  other  half  were  about  556e6974656420537461746573n  his-  tory  and  were  by  Howard  Fast.  My  ideal-  ism  (and  my  idea  of  a  man)  was  being  constructed  along  parallel  lines,  one  fed  by  novels  about  baseball  champions  who  won  their  games  the  hard  way,  suffering  adversity  and  humiliation  and  many  de-     feats  as  they  struggled  toward  victory,  and  the  other  by  novels  about  heroic  Ameri-  cans  who  fought  against  tyranny  and  in-  justice,  champions  of  liberty  for  [REDACTED]  and  for  all  mankind.  Heroic  suffering.  That  was  my  specialty.  &quot;Citizen  Tom  Paine&quot;  was  not  so  much  a  novel  plotted  in  the  familiar  manner  as  a  sustained  linking  of  highly  charged  the-  torical  flourishes  tracing  the  contradic-  tions  of  an  unsavory  man  with  a  smolder-  ing  intellect  and  the  purest  social  ideals,  a  writer  and  a  revolutionary.  &quot;He  was  the  most  hated-and  perhaps  by  a  few  the  most  loved-man  in  all  the  world.&quot;  &quot;A  mind  that  burned  itself  as  few  minds  in  all  hu-  man  history.&quot;  To  &quot;feel  in  his  own  soul  the  whip  laid  on  the  backs  of  millions.&quot;  &quot;His  thoughts  and  ideas  were  closer  to  those  of  the  average  working  man  than  Jefferson's  ever  could  be.&quot;  That  was  Paine  as  Fast  portrayed  him,  savagely  single-minded  and  unsociable,  an  epic,  folkloricbelliger-  ent-unkempt,  dirty,  wearing  a  beggar's  clothes;  bearing  a  musket  in  the  unruly  streets  of  wartime  [REDACTED],  a  bitter,  caustic  man,  often  drunk,  frequenting  brothels,  hunted  by  assassins,  and  friend-  less.  He  did  it  all  alone:  &quot;My  only  friend  is  the  revolution.&quot;  By  the  time  I  had  fin-  ished  the  book,  there  seemed  to  me  no  way  other  than  Paine's  for  a  man  to  live  and  die  if  he  was  intent  on  demanding,  in  be-  half  of  human  freedom-demanding  both  from  remote  rulers  and  from  the  coarse  mob-the  transformation  of  society.  He  did  it  all  alone.  There  was  nothing  about  Paine  that  could  have  been  more  appealing,  however  unsentimentally  Fast  depicted  an  isolation  born  of  defiant  in-  dependence  and  personal  misery.  For  Paine  had  ended  his  days  alone  as  well,  old,  sick,  wretched,  and  alone,  ostracized,  betrayed-despised  beyond  everything  for  having  written  in  his  last  testament,  &quot;The  Age  of  Reason,&quot;  &quot;I  do  not  believe  in  the  creed  professed  by  the  Jewish  church,  by  the  Roman  church,  by  the  Greek  church,  by  the  Turkish  church,  by  the  Protestant  church,  nor  by  any  church  that  I  know  of.  My  own  mind  is  my  own  church.&quot;  Reading  about  him  had  made  me  feel  bold  and  angry,  and,  above  all,  free  to  fight  for  what  I  believed  in.  &quot;Citizen  Tom  Paine&quot;  was  the  very  book  that  Mr.  Ringold  had  picked  out  of  my  bicycle  basket  to  bring  back  to  where  we  were  sitting.  &quot;You  know  this  one?&quot;  he  asked  his  brother.  Tron  Rinn  took  my  library  book  in  Abe  Lincoln's  enormous  hands  and  began  flip-  ping  through  the  opening  pages.  &quot;Nope.  Never  read  Fast,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  should.  Won-  derful  man.  Guts.  He  was  with  Wallace  from  Day  One.  I  catch  his  column  when-  ever  I  buy  the  Worker,  but  I  don't  have  the  time  for  novels  anymore.  In  4972616e  I  did,  in  the  service  I  read  Steinbeck,  Up-  ton  Sinclair,  Jack  [REDACTED],  Caldwell  .  ..&quot;  &quot;If  you're  going  to  read  him,  this  is  Fast  at  his  best,&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  said.  &quot;Am  I  right,  Nathan?&quot;  &quot;This  book  is  great,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;You  ever  read  'Common  Sense'?&quot;  Iron  Rinn  asked  me.  &quot;Ever  read  Paine's  writings?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;Read  'em,&quot;  Iron  Rinn  told  me  while  still  leafing  through  my  book.  &quot;There's  a  lot  of  Paine's  writing  quoted  by  Howard  Fast,&quot;  I  said.  Looking  up,  Iron  Rinn  said,  &quot;'The  strength  of  the  many  is  revolution,  but  curiously  enough  mankind  has  gone  through  several  thousand  years  of  slav-  ery  without  realizing  that  fact.'&quot;  &quot;That's  in  the  book,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;I  should  hope  so.&quot;  &quot;You  know  what  the  genius  of  Paine  was?&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  asked  me.  &quot;It  was  thegenius  of  all  those  men.  Jefferson.  Madison.  Know  what  it  was?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  do  know  what  it  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;To  defy  the  English.&quot;  &quot;A  lot  of  people  did  that.  No.  It  was     59  to  articulate  the  cause  iz  English.  The  revolution  was  totally  improvised,  totally  disorganized.  Isn't  that  the  sense  you  get  from  this  book,  Nathan?  Well,  these  guys  had  to  find  a  language  for  their  rev-  olution.  To  find  the  words  for  a  great  purpose.&quot;  &quot;Paine  said,&quot;  I  told  Mr.  Ringold,  &quot;  I  wrote  a  little  book  because  I  wanted  men  to  see  what  they  were  shooting  at.'&quot;  &quot;And  that  he  did,&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  said.  &quot;Here,&quot;  said  Iron  Rinn,  pointing  to  some  lines  in  the  book.  &quot;On  George  III.  Listen.  I  should  suffer  the  misery  of  dev-  ils,  were  I  to  make  a  whore  of  my  soul  by  swearing  allegiance  to  one  whose  char-  acter  is  that  of  a  sottish,  stupid,  stubborn,  worthless,  brutish  man.'&quot;  Both  quotations  from  Paine  that  Iron  Rinn  had  recited-employing  his  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave&quot;  people-bound,  in-  the-rough  voice-were  among  the  dozen  or  so  that  I  had  myself  written  down  and  memorized.  &quot;You  like  that  line,&quot;  Mr.  Ringold  said  to  me.  &quot;Yes.  I  like  'a  whore  of  my  soul.&quot;&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  asked  me.  I  was  beginning  to  perspire  profusely  from  the  sun  on  my  face,  from  the  excitement  of  meeting  Iron  Rinn,  and  now  from  being  on  the  spot,  having  to  answer  Mr.  Ringold  as  though  I  were  in  class  while  I  was  sitting  between  two  shirtless  brothers  well  over  six  feet  tall,  two  big,  natural  men  exuding  the  sort  of  forceful,  intelligent  manliness   to  which  I  aspired.  Men  who  could  talk  about  baseball  and  boxing  talking  about  books.  And  talking  about  books  as  though  something  were  at  stake  ina  book.  Not  opening  up  a  book  to  worship  it  or  to  be  elevated  by  it  or  to  lose  yourself  to  the  world  around  you.  No,  boxing  with  the  book.  &quot;Because,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  don't  ordinarily  think  of  your  soul  as  a  whore.&quot;  &quot;What's  he  mean,  'a  whore  of  my  soul&quot;?&quot;  &quot;Selling  it,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;Selling  his  soul.&quot;  &quot;Right.  Do  you  see  how  much  stron-  ger  it  is  to  write  'I  should  suffer  the  misery  of  devils,  were  I  to  make  a  whore  of  my  soul'  rather  than  'were  I  to  se//  my  soul&quot;?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do.&quot;  &quot;Why  is  that  stronger?&quot;  &quot;Because  in  'whore'  he  personifies  it.&quot;  &quot;Yeah-what  else?&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  word  'whore'  ..  .  it's  not  a  conventional  word,  you  don't  hear  it  in  public.  People  don't  go  around  writing  'whore'  or,  in  public,  saying  'whore.'&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  they?&quot;  &quot;Shame.  Embarrassment.  Propriety.&quot;  &quot;Propriety.  Good.  Right.  So  this  is  au-  dacious,  then.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;And  that's  what  you  like  about  Paine,  isn't  it?  His  audacity?&quot;  &quot;I  think  so.  Yes.&quot;  &quot;And  now  you  know  why  you  like  what  you  like.  You're  way  ahead  of  the  game,  Nathan.  And  you  know  it  because  you  looked  at  one  word  he  used,  just  one  word,  and  you  thought  about  that  word  he  used,  and  you  asked  yourself  some  questions  about  that  word  he  used,  until  you  saw  right  through  that  word,  saw  through  it  as  through  a  magnifying  glass,  to  one  of  the  sources  of  this  great  writer's  power.  He  is  audacious.  Thomas  Paine  is  auda-  cious.  But  is  that  enough?  That  is  only  a  part  of  the  formula.  Audacity  must  have  a  purpose,  otherwise  it's  cheap  and  facile  and  vulgar.  Why  is  Thomas  Paine  audacious?&quot;  &quot;In  behalf,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;of  his  convictions.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  that's  my  boy,&quot;  Iron  Rinn  sud-  denly  announced.  &quot;That's  my  boy  who  booed  Mr.  Douglas!&quot;  O  it  was  that  I  wound  up  five  nights  later  as  Iron  Rinn's  backstage  guest  at  a  rally  held  in  downtown  [REDACTED],  at  the  Mosque,  the  city's  biggest  theatre,  for  Henry  Wallace,  the  Presidential  candi-  date  of  the  newly  formed  Progressive  Party.  Wallace  had  been  in  Roosevelt's  Cabinet  as  Secretary  of  Agriculture  for  seven  years  before  becoming  his  Vice-  President  during  Roosevelt's  third  term.  In  '44  he'd  been  dropped  from  the  ticket  and  replaced  by  Truman,  in  whose  Cabi-  net  he  served  briefly  as  Secretary  of  Commerce.  In  '46,  the  President  fired  Wallace  for  sounding  off  in  favor  of  cooperation  with  Stalin  and  friendship  with  the  Soviet  Union  at  just  thepoint  when  the  Soviet  Union  had  begun  to  be  perceived  by  Truman  and  the  Democrats  not  only  as  an  ideological  enemy  but  as  a  serious  threat  to  peace  whose  expansion  into  Europe  and  elsewhere  had  to  be  contained  by  the  West.  This  division  within  the  Democratic  Party-between  the  anti-Soviet  majority  led  by  the  President  and  the  &quot;progressive&quot;  Soviet  sympathizers  led  by  Wallace  and  opposed  to  the  Truman  Doctrine  and  the  Marshall  Plan-was  reflected  in  the  split  within  my  own  household  between  fa-  ther  and  son.  My  father,  who  had  ad-  mired  Wallace  when  he  was  FED.R.'s  pro-  tegée,  was  against  the  Wallace  candidacy  for  the  reason  556e6974656420537461746573ns  traditionally  choose  not  to  support  third-party  candi-  dates-in  this  case,  because  it  would  draw  the  votes  of  the  left  wing  of  the  Democratic  Party  away  from  Truman  and  make  all  but  certain  the  election  of  Governor  Thomas  E.  Dewey  of  New  York,  the  Republican  candidate.  The  Wallace  people  were  talking  about  their  party's  polling  some  six  or  seven  million  votes,  more  than  had  ever  gone  to  any  556e6974656420537461746573n  third  party.  &quot;Your  man  is  only  going  to  deny  the  Democrats  the  White  House,&quot;  my  father  told  me.  &quot;And  if  we  get  the  Republicans,  that  will  mean  the  suffering  in  this  coun-  try  that  it  has  always  meant.  You  weren't  around  for  Hoover  and  Harding  and  Coolidge.  You  don't  know  firsthand  about  the  heartlessness  of  the  Republican  Party.  You  despise  big  business,  Nathan?  You  despise  what  you  and  Henry  Wallace  call  'the  Big  Boys  from  Wall  Street'?  Well,  you  don't  know  what  it  is  when  the  party  of  big  business  has  its  foot  in  the  face  of  ordinary  people.  I  do.  I  know  poverty  and  I  know  hardship  in  ways  you  and  your  brother  have  been  spared,  thank  God.&quot;  My  father  had  been  born  in  the  New-  ark  slums  and  become  a  chiropodist  only  by  going  to  school  at  night  while  working  by  day  on  a  bakery  truck;  and  all  his  life,  even  after  he  had  made  a  few  bucks  and  we  had  moved  into  a  house  of  our  own,  he  continued  to  identify  with  the  inter-  ests  of  what  he  called  ordinary  people  and  what  I  had  taken  to  calling-along  with  Henry  Wallace-&quot;the  common  man.&quot;  I  was  terrifically  disappointed  to  hear  my  father  flatly  refuse  to  vote  for  the  candidate  who,  as  I  tried  to  convince  him,  supported  his  own  New  Deal  prin-  ciples.  Wallace  wanted  a  national  health  program,  protection  for  unions,  benefits  for  workers;  he  was  opposed  to  Taft-  Hartley  and  the  persecution  of  labor;  he  was  opposed  to  the  Mundt-Nixon  bill  and  the  persecution  of  political  radicals.  The  Mundt-Nixon  bill,  if  passed,  would  require  the  registration  with  the  government  of  all  Communists  and  &quot;Communist-front&quot;  organizations.  Wallace  had  said  that  Mundt-Nixon  was  the  first  step  to  a  po-  lice  state,  an  effort  to  frighten  the  Amer-  ican  people  into  silence;  he  called  it  &quot;the  most  subversive&quot;  bill  ever  introduced  in  Congress.  The  Progressive  Party  sup-  ported  the  freedom  of  ideas  to  compete  in  what  Wallace  called  &quot;the  marketplace  of  thoughts.&quot;  Most  impressive  to  me  was  that,  campaigning  in  the  [REDACTED],  Wallace  had  refused  to  address  any  audience  that  was  segregated-the  first  Presidential  candidate  ever  to  have  that  degree  of  courage  and  integrity.  &quot;The  Democrats,&quot;  I  told  my  father,  &quot;will  never  do  anything  to  end  segrega-  tion.  They  will  never  outlaw  lynching  and  the  poll  tax  and  Jim  Crow.  They  never  have  and  they  never  will.&quot;  &quot;I  do  not  agree  with  you,  Nathan,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;You  watch  Harry  Truman.  Harry  Truman  has  got  a  civil-rights  plank  in  his  platform,  and  you  watch  and  see  what  he  does  now  that  he's  rid  of  those  43616e616461ern  bigots.&quot;  Not  only  had  Wallace  bolted  from  the  Democratic  Party  that  year  but  so  had  the  &quot;bigots&quot;  my  father  spoke  of,  the  43616e616461ern  Democrats,  who  had  formed  their  own  party,  the  [REDACTED]'  Rights  Party-the  &quot;Dixiecrats.&quot;  They  were  run-  ning  for  President  Governor  Strom  Thurmond  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  a  rabid  segregationist.  The  Dixiecrats  were  also  going  to  draw  away  votes,  43616e616461ern  votes,  that  routinely  went  to  the  Demo-  cratic  Party,  which  was  another  reason  Dewey  was  favored  to  defeat  Truman  in  a  landslide.  Every  night  over  dinner  in  the  kitchen,  I  did  everything  I  could  to  persuade  my  father  to  vote  for  Henry  Wallace  and  the   restoration  of  the  New  Deal,  and  every  night  he  tried  to  get  me  to  understand  the  necessity  for  compromise  in  an  elec-  tion  like  this  one.  But  as  I  had  taken  as  my  hero  Thomas  Paine,  the  most  un-  compromising  patriot  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  his-  tory,  at  the  mere  sound  of  the  first  sy/lable  of  the  word  &quot;compromise&quot;  I  jumped  up  from  my  chair  and  told  him  and  my  mother  and  my  ten-year-old  brother  (who,  whenever  I  got  going,  liked  to  re-  peat  to  me,  in  an  exaggeratedly  exasper-  ated  voice,  &quot;A  vote  for  Wallace  is  a  vote  for  Dewey&quot;)  that  I  could  never  again  eat  at  that  table  if  my  father  was  present.  One  night  at  dinner  my  father  tried  another  tack-to  educate  me  further  about  the  Republicans'  contempt  for  ev-  ery  value  of  economic  equality  and  polit-  ical  justice  that  I  held  dear-but  I  would  have  none  of  it:  the  two  major  political  parties  were  equally  without  conscience  when  it  came  to  the  Negro's  rights,  equally  indifferent  to  the  injustices  inher-  ent  in  the  capitalist  system,  equally  blind  to  the  catastrophic  consequences  for  all  of  mankind  of  our  country's  deliberate  provocation  of  the  peace-loving  Russian  people.  Close  to  tears,  and  meaning  every  word,  I  told  my  father,  &quot;I'm  really  sur-  prised  at  you,&quot;  as  though  it  were  he  who  was  the  uncompromising  son.  But  a  greater  surprise  was  coming.  Late  on  Saturday  afternoon  he  told  me  that  he  would  rather  I  didn't  go  down  to  the  Mosque  that  evening  to  attend  the  Wallace  rally.  If  I  still  wanted  to  after  we  had  spoken,  he  wouldn't  try  to  stop  me,  but  he  at  least  wanted  me  to  hear  him  out  before  I  made  my  decision  final.  When  I'd  come  home  on  Tuesday  from  the  library  and  trtumphantly  announced  at  dinner  that  I  had  been  invited  to  be  a  guest  of  Iron  Rinn,  the  radio  actor,  at  the  Wallace  rally  downtown,  I  was  obviously  so  thrilled  at  meeting  Rinn,  so  beside  myself  with  the  personal  interest  he'd  shown  in  me,  that  my  mother  had  simply  forbidden  my  father  from  raising  his  reservations  about  the  rally.  But  now  he  wanted  me  to  listen  to  what  he  felt  he  had  a  duty,  as  a  parent,to  discuss,  and  without  my  flying  off  the  handle.  My  father  was  taking  me  as  seriously  as  the  Ringolds  were,  butnot  with  Ira's  political  fearlessness,  with  Murray's  lit-  erary  ingenuity,  above  all,  with  their  seeming  absence  of  concern  for  my  decorum,  for  whether  I  would  or  would  not  be  a  good  boy.  The  Ringolds  were  the  one-two  punch  promising  to  initiate  me  into  thebig  show,  into  my  begin-  ning  to  understand  what  it  takes  to  be  a  man  on  the  larger  scale.  The  Ringolds  compelled  me  to  respond  at  a  level  of  rigor  that  felt  appropriate  to  who  I  now  was.  Be  a  good  boy  wasn't  the  issue  with  them.  The  sole  issue  was  my  convic-  tions.  But  then  their  responsibility  wasn't  a  father's,  which  is  to  steer  his  son  away  from  the  pitfalls.  The  father  has  to  worry  about  the  pitfalls  in  a  way  the  teacher  doesn't.  He  has  to  worry  about  his  son's  conduct,  he  has  to  worry  about  socializing  his  little  Tom  Paine.  But  once  little  Tom  Paine  has  been  let  into  the  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  3,  1998  company  of  men  and  the  father  is  still  educating  him  as  a  boy,  the  father  is  fin-  ished.  Sure,  he's  worrying  about  the  pit-  falls-if  he  wasn't,  it  would  bewrong.  But  he's  finished  anyway.  Little  Tom  Paine  has  no  choice  but  to  write  him  off,  to  betray  the  father  andgo  boldly  forth  tostep  straight  into  life's  very  first  pit.  And  then,  all  on  his  own-providing  real  unity  to  his  existence-to  step  from  pit  to  pit  for  the  rest  of  his  days,  until  the  grave,  which,  if  it  has  nothing  else  to  recommend  it,  is  at  least  the  last  pit  into  which  one  can  fall.  &quot;Hear  me  out,&quot;  my  father  said,  &quot;and  then  you  make  up  your  own  mind.  I  re-  spect  your  independence,  son.  You  want  to  wear  a  Wallace  button  to  school?  Wear  it.  It's  a  free  country.  But  you  have  to  have  all  the  facts.  You  can't  make  an  in-  formed  decision  without  facts.&quot;  Why  had  Mrs.  Roosevelt,  the  great  President's  revered  widow,  withheld  her  endorsement  and  turned  against  Henry  Wallace?  Why  had  Harold  Ickes,  Roo-  sevelt's  trusted  and  loyal  Secretary  of  the  Interior,  a  great  man  in  his  own  right,  withheld  his  endorsement  and  turned  against  Henry  Wallace?  Why  had  the  C.1.O.,  as  ambitious  a  labor  organization  as  this  country  had  ever  known,  with-  drawn  its  money  and  its  support  from  Henry  Wallace?  Because  of  the  Commu-  nist  infiltration  into  the  Wallace  cam-  paign.  My  father  didn't  want  me  to  go  to  the  rally  because  of  the  Communists,  who  had  all  but  taken  over  the  Progres-  sive  Party.  He  told  me  that  Henry  Wal-  lace  was  either  too  naive  to  know  it  or-  what  was,  unfortunately,  probably  closer  to  the  truth-too  dishonest  to  admit  it,  but  Communists,  particularly  from  among  Communist-dominated  unions  already  expelled  from  the  C.1.O.-  &quot;Red-baiter!&quot;  I  shouted,  and  I  left  the  house.  I  took  the  No.  14  bus  and  went  to  the  rally.  I  met  Paul  Robeson.  He  reached  out  to  shake  my  hand  after  Ira  intro-  duced  me  as  the  kid  at  the  high  school  he'dtold  him  about.  &quot;Here  he  is,  Paul,  the  boy  who  led  the  booing  of  Ste-  phen  A.  Douglas.&quot;  Paul  Robeson,  the  Negro  actor  and  singer,  co-chairman  of  the  Wallace  for  President  Committee,  who  only  a  few  months  earlier  at  a  [REDACTED]  demonstration  against  the  Mundt-Nixon  bill  had  sung  &quot;OT  Man  River&quot;  to  a  crowd  of  five  thousand  pro-  testers  at  the  foot  of  the  [REDACTED]  Monument,  who'd  been  fearless  before  the  Senate  Judiciary  Committee,  telling  COMMUNIST  them  (when  asked  at  their  hearings  on  Mundt-Nixon  if  he  would  comply  with  the  bill  if  it  was  passed),  &quot;I  would  violate  the  law,&quot;  then  answering  no  less  forth,  rightly  (when  asked  what  the  Commu-  nist  Party  stood  for),  &quot;For  complete  equality  of  the  Negro  people&quot;-Paul  Robeson  took  my  hand  in  his  and  said,  &quot;Don't  lose  your  courage,  young  man.&quot;  Standing  backstage  with  the  per-  formers  and  speakers  at  the  Mosque-  enveloped  simultaneously  in  two  exotic  new  worlds,  the  leftist  milieu  and  the  world  of  &quot;the  wings&quot;-was  as  thrilling  as  it  would  have  been  to  sit  down  in  the  dugout  with  the  players  at  a  major-league  game.  From  the  wings  I  heard  Ira  do  Abraham  Lincoln  again,  this  time  tearing  into  not  Stephen  A.  Douglas  but  the  warmongers  in  both  political  parties:  &quot;Supporting  reactionary  regimes  all  over  the  world,  arming  WesternEurope  againstRussia,  militarizing  [REDACTED]  ...&quot;  I  saw  Henry  Wallace  himself,  stood  no  more  than  twenty  feet  away  from  him  before  he  went  onto  the  stage  to  address  the  crowd,  and  then  stood  almost  at  his  side  when  Ira  went  up  to  whisper  some-  thing  to  him  at  the  gala  reception  after  the  rally.  I  stared  at  the  Presidential  can-  didate,  a  Republican  farmer's  son  from  Towa  as  556e6974656420537461746573n-looking  and  556e6974656420537461746573n-  sounding  as  any  556e6974656420537461746573n  I  had  ever  seen,  a  politician  against  high  prices,  against  big  business,  against  segregation  and  discrimination,  against  appeasing  dictators  like  Francisco  Franco  and  Chiang  Kai-shek,  and  I  remembered  what  Fast  had  written  of  Paine:  &quot;His  thoughts  and  ideas  were  closer  to  those  of  the  av-  erage  working  man  than  Jefferson's  ever  could  be.&quot;  And  in  1954-six  years  after  that  night  at  the  Mosque  when  the  can-  didate  of  the  common  man,  thecandi-  date  of  the  people  and  the  people's  party,  raised  gooseflesh  all  over  me  by  clenching  his  fist  and  crying  out  from  the  lectern,  &quot;We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  fierce  attack  upon  our  freedom&quot;-I  got  turned  down  for  a  Fulbright  scholarship.  I  did  not  and  could  not  have  made  a  scrap  of  difference,  and  yet  the  zealotry  to  defeat  Communism  reached  even  me.  RON  RINN  had  beenborn  in  [REDACTED]  two  decades  before  me,  in  1913,  a  poor  boy  from  a  hard  neighborhood-  and  from  a  cruel  family-who  briefly  at-  tended  Barringer  High,  where  he  failed  every  subject  but  gym.  He  had  bad  eye-  sight  and  useless  glasses  and  could  barely  read  what  was  in  the  lesson  books,  let  alone  what  the  teacher  wrote  on  the  blackboard.  He  couldn't  see  and  he  couldn't  learn  and  one  day,  as  he  ex-  plained  it,  &quot;I  just  didn't  wake  up  to  go  to  school.&quot;  Murray  and  Ira's  father  was  someone  Ira  refused  even  to  discuss.  In  the  months  after  the  Wallace  rally,  the  most  Ira  ever  told  me  was  this:  &quot;My  father  I  couldn't  talk  to.  He  never  paid  the  slightest  bit  of  attention  to  his  two  sons.  He  didn't  do  this  on  purpose.  It  was  the  nature  of  the  beast.&quot;  Ira's  mother,  a  beloved  woman  in  his  memory,  died  when  he  was  seven,  and  her  replacement  he  described  as  &quot;the  stepmother  you  hear  about  in  the  fairy  tales.  A  real  bitch.&quot;  He  quit  high  school  after  a  year  and  a  halfand,  a  few  weeks  later,  left  the  house  forever  at  fifteen  and  found  a  job  digging  ditches  in  [REDACTED].  Till  the  war  broke  out,  while  the  country  was  in  the  Depression,  he  drifted  round  and  round,  first  in  New  Jersey  and  then  all  over  [REDACTED],  taking  whatever  work  he  could  get,  mostly  jobs  requiring  a  strong  back.  Immediately  after  Pearl  [REDACTED],  he  enlistedin  the  Army.  He  couldn't  see  the  eye  chart,  but  a  long  line  of  guys  were  waiting  for  the  examination,  and  so  Ira  went  around  up  close  to  the  chart,  memorized  as  much  of  it  as  he  could,  then  got  back  in  line,  and  that  was  how  he  passed  the  physical.  When  Ira  came  out  of  the  Army,  in  1945,  he  spent  a  year  in  Calumet  City,  [REDACTED],  where  he  shared  a  room  with  the  closest  buddy  he'd  made  in  the  ser-  vice,  a  Communist  steelworker,  Johnny  O'Day.  They'd  been  soldier  stevedores  together  on  the  docks  in  4972616e,  unloading  lend-lease  equipment  that  was  shipped  by  rail  through  Tehe-  ran  to  the  Soviet  Union;  be-  a  cause  of  Ira's  strength  on  the  job,  O  Day  had  nicknamed  his  friend  Iron  Man  Ira.  In  the  evenings,  O'Day  had  taught  the  Tron  Man  how  to  read  a  book  and  how  to  write  a  letter  and  given  him  an  education  in  Marxism.  O'Day  was  a  gray-haired  guy  some  ten  years  older  than  &quot;How  he  ever  got  into  the  service  at  hisage,&quot;Ira  said,  &quot;I  still  don't  know.&quot;  A  six-footer  skinny  as  a  telephone  pole  but  the  toughest  son  of  a  bitch  he'd  ever  met.  O'Day  carried  in  his  gear  a  light  punching  bag  that  he  used  for  his  timing;  so  quick  and  strong  was  he  that,  &quot;if  forced  to,  he  could  lick  two  or  three  guys  together.&quot;  And  O'Day  was     63  brilliant.  &quot;I  knew  nothing  about  politics.  I  knew  nothing  about  political  action,&quot;  Ira  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  one  political  philoso-  phy  or  one  social  philosophy  from  an-  other.  But  this  guy  talked  a  lot  to  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  talked  about  the  workingman.  About  things  in  general  in  the  United  [REDACTED].  The  harm  our  government  was  doing  to  the  workers.  And  he  backed  up  what  he  said  with  facts.  And  a  noncon-  formist?  O'Day  was  so  nonconformist  that  everything  he  did  he  did  not  doby  the  book.  Yeah,  O'Day  did  a  lot  for  me,  I  know  that.&quot;  Like  Ira,  O'Day  was  unmarried.  &quot;En-  tangling  alliances,&quot;  he  told  Ira,  &quot;is  some-  thing  I  don't  want  any  part  of  at  no  time.  I  regard  kids  as  hostages  to  the  malevo-  lent.&quot;  Though  he  had  but  a  year's  educa-  tion  more  than  Ira,  on  his  own  O'Day  had  &quot;skilled  himself,&quot;  as  he  put  it,  &quot;in  ver-  bal  and  written  polemics&quot;  by  slavishly  copying  passage  after  passage  out  of  all  sorts  of  books  and,  with  the  aid  of  a  grade-school  grammar,  analyzing  the  structure  of  the  sentences.  It  was  O'Day  who  gave  Ira  the  pocket  dictionary  that  Ira  claimed  remade  his  life.  &quot;I  had  a  dic-  tionary  I  read  at  night,&quot;  Ira  told  me,  &quot;the  way  you  would  reada  novel.  I  had  some-  body  send  me  a  Roget's  Thesaurus.  After  unloading  ships  all  day,  I  would  work  everynight  to  improve  my  vocabulary.&quot;  He  discovered  reading.  &quot;One  day-it  must  have  been  one  of  the  worst  mis-  takes  the  Army  ever  made-they  sent  us  a  complete  library.  What  an  error,&quot;  he  said,  laughing.  &quot;I  probably  read  every  book  they  had  inthat  library  eventually.  They  built  a  quonset  hut  to  house  the  books,  and  they  made  shelves,  and  they  told  the  guys,  'You  want  a  book,  you  come  in  here  and  get  one.'&quot;  It  was  O'Day  who  told  him-who  still  told  him-which  books  to  get.  Early  on,  Ira  showed  me  three  sheets  of  paper  titled  &quot;Some  Concrete  Sugges-  tionsfor  Ringold's  Utilization&quot;  which  O'Day  had  prepared  when  they  were  in  4972616e  together.  &quot;One:  Always  keep  a  dic-  tionary  at  hand-a  good  one  with  plenty  of  antonyms  and  synonyms-even  when  you  write  a  note  to  the  milkman.  And  use  it.  Don't  make  wild  passes  at  spelling  and  exact  shades  of  meaning  as  you  have  been  accustomed  to  doing.  Two:  Double-  space  everything  you  write  in  order  to  permit  interpolation  of  afterthoughts  and  corrections.  I  don't  give  a  damn  if  it  does     64  violate  good  usage  insofar  as  personal  correspondence  is  involved;  it  makes  for  accurate  expression.  Three:  Don't  run  your  thoughts  together  in  a  solid  page  of  typing.  Every  time  you  treat  a  new  thought  or  elaborate  what  you're  already  talking  about,  indent  for  a  new  para-  graph.  It  may  add  up  to  jerkiness,  but  it  will  be  much  more  readable.  Four:  Avoid  clichés.  Even  if  you  have  to  drag  it  in  by  the  tail,  express  something  you've  read  or  heard  quoted  in  other  than  the  original  words.  One  of  your  sentences  from  the  other  night  at  the  library  session  in  point  of  demonstration:  I  stated  briefly  some  of  the  ills  of  the  present  regime  ...'  You've  read  that,  Iron  Man,  and  it  isn't  yours;  it's  somebody  else's.  It  sounds  as  if  it  came  out  of  a  can.  Suppose  you  ex-  pressed  the  same  idea  something  like  this:  I  build  my  argument  about  the  ef-  fect  of  landed  proprietorship  and  the  dominance  of  foreign  capital  onwhat  I  have  witnessed  here  in  4972616e.'&quot;  There  were  twenty  points  in  all,  and  the  reason  Ira  showed  them  to  me  was  to  assist  with  my  writing-with  my  journal,  intended  to  be  &quot;political,&quot;  where  I  was  be-  ginning  to  put  down  my  &quot;thoughts&quot;  when  I  remembered  to.I'd  begun  keep-  ing  my  journal  in  imitation  of  Ira,  who'd  begun  keeping  his  in  imitation  of  Johnny  O'Day.  The  three  of  us  used  the  same  brand  of  notebook:  a  dime  pad  from  Woolworth's,  fifty-two  lined  pages  about  four  inches  by  three  inches,  stitched  at  the  top  and  bound  between  mottled  brown  cardboard  covers.  When  an  O'Day  letter  mentioned  a  book,  any  book,  Ira  got  a  copy  and  so  did  I;  I'd  go  right  to  the  library  and  take  it  out.  &quot;I've  been  read-  ing  Bowers'  'Young  Jefferson'  recently,&quot;  O'Day  wrote,  &quot;along  with  other  treatments  of  early-  556e6974656420537461746573n  history,  and  the  Com-  mittees  of  Correspondence  in  that  period  were  the  princi-  pal  agency  by  which  the  revolutionary-  minded  colonists  developed  their  under-  standing  and  coordinated  their  plans.&quot;  That's  how  I  came  to  read  &quot;Young  Jeffer-  son&quot;  while  in  high  school.  O'Day  wrote,  &quot;A  couple  of  weeks  ago  I  bought  the  twelfth  edition  of  Bartlett's  'Quotations,'  allegedly  for  my  reference  library,  actu-  ally  for  the  enjoyment  I  get  from  brows-  ing,&quot;  and  so  I  went  downtown  to  the  main  library,  to  sit  among  the  reference  books  browsing  in  Bartlett  the  way  I  imagined  O'Day  did,  my  journal  beside     me,  skimming  each  page  for  the  wisdom  that  would  expedite  my  maturing  and  make  me  somebody  to  reckon  with.  &quot;I  buy  the  Cominform  (official  organ  pub-  lished  in  Bucharest)  regularly,&quot;  O'Day  wrote,  but  the  Cominform-abbreviated  name  of  the  Communist  Information  Bureau-I  knew  I  wouldn't  find  in  any  local  library,  and  prudence  cautioned  me  not  to  go  looking.  I  loved  when  Ira  explained  the  work-  ings  of  his  own  union,  the  United  Elec-  trical  Workers,  and  described  the  people  at  the  record  factory  where  he'd  worked.  &quot;It  was  a  solid  union,  progressively  led,  controlled  by  the  rank  and  file.&quot;  Rank  and  file-three  little  words  that  thrilled  me,  as  did  the  idea  of  hard  work,  tenacious  courage,  and  a  just  cause  to  fuse  the  two.  Of  the  hundred  and  fifty  members  on  each  shift,  a  hun-  dred  or  so  attended  the  biweekly  shop  meetings.  Although  most  of  the  work  is  hourly  paid,  Ira  told  me,  &quot;There's  no  whip  swinging  at  that  factory.  Y'under-  stand?  If  a  boss  has  something  to  tell  you,  he's  courteous  about  it.  Even  for  serious  offenses,  the  offender's  called  into  the  office  together  with  his  stew-  ard.  That  makes  a  big  difference.&quot;  Ira  would  tell  me  all  that  transpired  at  an  ordinary  union  meeting:  &quot;routine  busi-  ness  like  proposals  for  a  new  contract,  the  problem  of  absenteeism,  a  parking-lot  beef,  discussion  of  the  looming  war&quot;-  he  meant  war  between  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  United  [REDACTED]-&quot;racism,  the  wages-causes-prices  myth,&quot;  going  on  and  on  not  just  because  I  was,  at  fifteen  and  sixteen,  eager  to  learn  all  thata  working-  man  did,  how  he  talked  and  acted  and  thought,  but  because  even  after  he  cleared  out  of  Calumet  City  to  go  to  New  York  to  work  in  radio  and  was  solidly  established  as  Iron  Rinn  on  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave,&quot;  Ira  continued  to  speak  of  the  record  plant  and  the  union  meetings  in  the  charismatic  tongue  of  his  fellow,  workers,  talked  as  though  he  still  went  off  to  work  there  every  morning.  Every  night,  rather,  for  after  a  short  while  he  had  got  himself  put  on  the  night  shift  so  that  he  could  have  his  days  for  &quot;mission-  ary  work,&quot;  by  which,  I  eventually  learned,  he  meant  proselytizing  for  the  Com-  munist  Party.  O'Day  had  recruited  Ira  into  the  Party  when  they  were  on  the  docks  in  4972616e.  Just  as  I,  anything  but  orphaned,  was  the  per-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  3,  1998  fect  target  for  Ira's  tutorials,  the  orphaned  Ira  had  been  the  perfect  target  for  O'Day's.  IT  was  for  his  union's  [REDACTED]-  Lincoln  birthday  fund-raiser  his  first  February  out  in  [REDACTED]  that  some-  body  got  the  idea  of  turning  Ira,  a  wiry  man,  knobbily  jointed,  with  dark,  coarse  Indian-like  hair  and  a  floppy,  big-footed  gait,  into  Abe  Lincoln:  put  whiskers  on  him,  decked  him  out  in  a  stovepipe  hat,  high-button  shoes,  and  an  old-fashioned,  ill-fitting  black  suit,  and  sent  him  up  to  the  lectern  to  read  from  the  Lincoln-  Douglas  debates  one  of  Lincoln's  most  telling  condemnations  of  slavery.  He  got  such  a  big  hand  for  giving  to  the  word  &quot;slavery&quot;  a  strong  working-class,  political  slant-and  enjoyed  himself  so  much  do-  ing  it-that  he  continued  right  on  with  the  only  thing  he  remembered  by  heart  from  his  nine  and  a  half  years  of  school-  ing,  the  Gettysburg  Address.  He  brought  the  house  down  with  the  finale,  that  sen-  tence  as  gloriously  resolute  as  any  sounded  in  Heaven  or  uttered  on  earth  since  the  world  began.  Raising  and  wiggling  one  of  those  huge  hairy-knuckled,  superflex-  ible  hands  of  his,  plunging  the  longest  of  his  inordinately  long  fingers  right  into  the  eyeball  of  his  union  audience  each  of  the  three  times,  he  dramatically  dropped  his  voice  and  rasped  &quot;the  people.&quot;  &quot;Everybody  thought  I  got  carried  away  by  emotion,&quot;  Ira  told  me.  &quot;That  that's  what  fired  me  up.  But  it  wasn't  emotions.  It  was  the  first  time  I  ever  felt  carried  away  by  intellect.  I  understood  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  what  the  hell  I  was  talking  about.  I  understood  what  this  country  is  all  about.&quot;  After  that  night,  on  his  weekends,  on  holidays,  he  travelled  the  [REDACTED]  area  for  the  C.1.O.,  as  far  as  Galesburg  and  [REDACTED],  out  to  authentic  Lincoln  country,  portraying  Abraham  Lincoln  for  C.1.O.  conventions,  cultural  pro-  grams,  parades,  and  picnics.  He  went  on  the  U.E.  radio  show,  where,  even  if  nobody  could  see  him  standing  two  inches  taller  even  than  Lincoln,  he  did  a  bang-up  job  bringing  Lincoln  to  the  masses  by  speaking  every  word  so  that  it  made  good  plain  sense.  People  began  to  take  their  kids  along  when  Ira  Ringold  was  to  appear  on  the  platform,  and  af-  terward,  when  whole  families  came  up  to  shake  his  hand,  the  kids  would  ask  to  sit  on  his  knee  and  tell  him  what  they  wanted  for  Christmas.  Not  so  strangely,  the  unions  he  performed  for  were  by  and     COMMUNIST  large  locals  that  either  broke  with  the  C.1.0.  or  were  expelled  when  C.1.O.  president  Philip  Murray  began  in  1947  to  rid  member  unions  of  Communist  leadership  and  Communist  membership.  But  by  '48  Ira  was  a  rising  radio  star  in  New  York,  newly  married  to  one  of  the  country's  most  revered  radio  ac-  tresses  and,  for  the  moment,  safely  pro-  tected  from  the  crusade  that  would  anni-  hilate  forever,  and  not  only  from  the  labor  movement,  a  pro-Soviet,  pro-  Stalin  political  presence  in  [REDACTED].  How  did  he  get  from  the  record  fac-  tory  to  a  network  drama  show?  Why  did  he  leave  [REDACTED]  and  O'Day  in  the  first  place?  It  could  never  have  occurred  to  me  at  that  time  that  it  had  anything  to  do  with  the  Communist  Party,  mainly  because  I  never  knew  back  then  that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Communist  Party.  What  I  understood  was  that  the  radio  writer  Arthur  Sokolow,  visiting  [REDACTED],  happened  to  catch  Ira's  Lin-  coln  act  in  a  union  hall  on  the  West  Side  one  night.  Ira  had  already  met  Sokolow  in  the  Army.  He'd  come  to  4972616e,  as  a  G.1.,  with  the  &quot;This  Is  the  Army&quot;  show.  A  lot  of  left-wing  guys  were  touring  with  the  show,  and  late  one  evening  Ira  had  gone  off  with  a  few  of  them  for  a  bull  session  during  which,  as  Ira  remem-  bered  it,  they'd  discussed  &quot;all  the  political  stuff  in  the  world.&quot;  Among  the  group  was  Sokolow,  whom  Ira  came  quickly  to  admire  as  someone  who  was  always  bat-  tling  for  a  cause.  Because  Sokolow  had  begun  life,  in  [REDACTED],  as  a  Jewish  street  kid  fighting  off  the  Poles,  he  was  also  completely  recognizable,  and  Ira  felt  at  once  a  kinship  he'd  never  wholly  had  with  the  rootless  Irishman  O'Day.  By  the  time  Sokolow,  now  a  civilian  writing  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave,&quot;  hap-  pened  to  turn  up  in  [REDACTED],  Ira  was  on-  stage  for  a  full  hour  as  Lincoln,  not  only  reciting  or  reading  from  speeches  and  documents  but  responding  to  audience  questions  about  current  political  contro-  versies  in  the  guise  of  Abraham  Lincoln,  with  Lincoln's  high-pitched  country  twang  and  his  awkward  giant's  gestures  and  his  droll,  plainspoken  way.  Lincoln  supporting  price  controls.  Lincoln  con-  demning  the  Smith  Act.  Lincoln  de-  fending  workers'  rights.  Lincoln  vilify,  ing  [REDACTED]'s  Senator  Bilbo.  The  union  membership  loved  their  stal-  wart  autodidact's  irresistible  ventrilo-  quism,  his  mishmash  of  Ringoldisms,  O'Dayisms,  Marxisms,  and  Lincolnisms     &quot;  (&quot;Pour  it  on!&quot;  they  shouted  at  bearded,  black-haired  Ira.  &quot;Give  'em  hell,  Abe!&quot;),  and  so  did  Sokolow,  who  brought  Ira  to  the  attention  of  another  Jewish  ex-G.1.,  a  New  York  soap-opera  producer  with  left-leaning  sympathies.  It  was  the  in-  troduction  to  the  producer  that  led  to  the  audition  that  landed  Ira  the  part  of  the  scrappy  super  of  a  [REDACTED]  tene-  ment  on  one  of  daytime  radio's  soap  operas.  The  salary  was  fifty-five  dollars  a  week.  Not  much,  even  in  1948,  but  steady  work  and  more  money  than  he  made  at  the  record  plant.  And,  almost  immediately,  he  began  doing  other  jobs  as  well,  getting  jobs  everywhere,  jumping  into  waiting  taxis  and  rushing  from  stu-  dio  to  studio,  from  one  daytime  show  to  another,  as  many  as  six  different  shows  a  day,  always  playing  characters  with  working-class  roots,  tough-talking  guys  truncated  from  their  politics,  as  he  ex-  plained  it  to  me,  in  order  to  make  their  anger  permissible:  &quot;The  proletariat  556e6974656420537461746573nized  for  the  radio  by  cutting  off  their  balls  and  their  brains.&quot;  It  was  all  this  work  that  propelled  him,  within  months,  onto  Sokolow's  prestigious  weekly  hour-long  show,  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave,&quot;  as  a  leading  player.  Maybe  there  were  more  machina-  tions  than  I  knew  of  behind  Ira's  move  to  New  York  and  his  overnight  radio  tri-  umph,  but  I  didn't  think  so  back  then.  I  didn't  have  to.  It  didn't  require  Com-  munist  connections  to  explain  Ira's  overnight  radio  triumph  to  me.  I  just  thought,  This  guy  is  wonderful.  He  is  an  iron  man.  MY  father,  unlike  my  mother,  didn't  see  Ira  as  a  means  of  social  ad-  vancement  for  me  and  was  always  per-  plexed  and  bothered  by  his  calling  me:  what  is  this  grown  man's  interest  in  this  kid?  He  thought  something  complicated,  if  not  downright  sinister,  was  going  on.  &quot;Where  do  you  go  with  him?&quot;  my  father  asked  me.  His  suspiciousness  erupted  vehe-  mently  one  night  when  he  found  me  at  my  desk  reading  a  copy  of  the  Daily  Worker.  &quot;I  don't  want  the  Hearst  papers  in  my  house,&quot;  my  father  told  me,  &quot;and  I  don't  want  paper  in  my  house.  One  is  the  mirror  image  of  the  other.  If  this  man  is  giving  you  the  Daily  Worker-&quot;  &quot;What  'man'?&quot;  &quot;Your  actor  friend.  Rinn,  as  he  calls  himself.&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  give  me  the  Daily  Worker.  I  bought  it  downtown.  I  bought  it  myself.  Is  there  a  law  against  that?&quot;  &quot;Who  told  you  to  buy  it?  Did  he  tell  you  to  go  out  and  buy  it?&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  tell  me  to  do  anything.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  that's  true.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  lie!  It  is!&quot;  It  was.  I'd  remembered  Ira  saying  that  there  was  a  column  in  the  Worker  by  Howard  Fast,  but  it  was  on  my  own  that  I  had  bought  the  paper,  across  from  Proc-  66  tor's  movie  theatre  at  a  Market  Street  newsstand,  ostensibly  to  read  Howard  Fast  but  also  out  of  simple,  dogged  cu-  riosity.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  confiscate  it?&quot;  I  asked  my  father.  &quot;No-you're  out  of  luck.  I'm  not  going  to  make  you  a  martyr  to  the  First  Amendment.  I  only  hope  that  after  you've  read  it  and  studied  and  thought  about  it  you  have  the  good  sense  to  know  that  it's  a  sheet  of  lies  and  to  confiscate  it  yourself.&quot;  Toward  the  end  of  the  school  year,  when  Ira  invited  me  to  spend  a  week  up  at  his  summer  shack  in  Zinc  Town,  my  father  said  I  wasn't  going  unless  Ira  had  a  talk  with  him  first.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  demanded  to  know.  &quot;I  want  to  ask  him  some  questions.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you,  the  House  Un-556e6974656420537461746573n  Activities  Committee?  Why  are  you  mak-  ing  such  a  big  thing  out  of  this?&quot;  &quot;Because  in  my  eyes  you  are  a  big  thing.  What's  his  telephone  number  in  New  [REDACTED];  &quot;You  can't  ask  him  questions.  About  what?&quot;  &quot;You  have  your  right  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  to  buy  and  read  the  Detily  Worker?  I  have  a  right  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  to  ask  anybody  anything  I  want.  If  he  doesn't  want  to  answer  me,  that's  Jis  right.&quot;  &quot;And  if  he  doesn't  want  to  answer,  what's  he  supposed  to  do,  take  the  Fifth  Amendment?&quot;  &quot;No.  He  can  tell  me  to  go  jump  in  the  lake.  I  just  explained  it  to  you-that's  how  we  do  it  in  the  U.S.A.  I  don't  say  that's  going  to  work  for  you  in  the  Soviet  Union  with  the  secret  police,  but  here  that's  all  it  ordinarily  takes  for  a  fellow   citizen  to  leave  you  alone  about  your  po-  litical  ideas.&quot;  &quot;Do  they  leave  you  alone?&quot;  I  asked  bit-  terly.  &quot;Does  Congressman  Dies  leave  you  alone?  Does  Congressman  Rankin  leave  you  alone?  Maybe  you  better  explain  it  to  them.&quot;  I  had  to  sit  there-he  told  me  I  had  to-and  listen  to  him  while  he  asked  Ira,  on  the  phone,  to  come  over  to  his  office  for  a  talk.  Iron  Rinn  and  Eve  Frame  were  the  biggest  things  ever  to  enter  the  Zuck-  erman  household  from  the  outside  world,  yet  it  was  clear  from  my  father's  tone  that  this  didn't  throw  him  at  all.  &quot;He  said  yes?&quot;  I  asked  when  my  father  hung  up.  &quot;He  said  he'd  be  there  if  Nathan  would  be  there.  You're  going  to  be  there.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no  I'm  not.&quot;  &quot;Yep,&quot;  my  father  said,  &quot;you  are.  You  are  if  you  want  me  even  to  begin  to  con-  sider  your  going  up  there  to  visit.  What  are  you  afraid  of,  an  open  discussion  of  ideas?  It's  going  to  be  democracy  inac-  tion,  next  Wednesday,  after  school,  at  three-thirty  in  my  office.  You  be  on  time,  son.&quot;  My  father's  chiropody  office  was  on  the  ground  floor  of  a  three-family  house  at  the  bottom  of  [REDACTED]  Avenue,  a  modest  dwelling  in  need  of  a  face-lift  nearthe  run-down  edge  of  our  otherwise  plainly  pedestrian  neighborhood.  I  was  there  early,  feeling  sick  to  my  stomach.  Ira,  looking  serious  and  not  at  all  enraged  (as  yet),  arrived  promptly  at  three-thirty.  My  father  asked  him  to  be  seated.  &quot;Mr.  Ringold,  Nathan  is  not  a  run-  of-the-mill  boy.  He  is  an  older  son  who  is  an  excellent  student  and  who,  I  believe,  is  advanced  and  mature  beyond  his  years.  We  are  very  proud  of  him.  I  want  to  give  him  all  the  latitude  I  can.  I  try  not  to  stand  in  his  way  in  life,  as  some  fathers  do.  But  because  I  honestly  happen  to  think  that  for  him  the  sky  is  the  limit,  I  don't  want  anything  to  happen  to  him.  If  anything  should  happen  to  this  boy&quot;  My  father's  voice  grew  husky  and  he  abruptly  stopped  talking.  I  knew  that  my  father  was  choked  up  not  merely  because  of  me  and  my  promise  but  because  his  two  youngest  brothers,  the  first  members  of  that  large,  poor  family  of  his  who  were  targeted  to  go  to  a  real  college  and  be-  come  real  doctors,  had  both  died  of  ill-  nesses  in  their  late  teens.  Studio  por-  trait  photos  of  them  rested  next  to  each  other  in  twin  frames  on  our  dining-room  sideboard.  I  should  have  explained  to  Ira  about  Sam  and  Sidney,  I  thought.  &quot;I  have  to  ask  you  a  question,  Mr.  Ringold,  that  I  don't  want  to  ask  you.  I  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  3,  1998  don't  consider  another  person's  beliefs-  religious,  political,  or  otherwise-my  business.  I  respect  your  privacy.  I  can  as-  sure  you  that  whatever  you  say  here  will  not  go  beyond  this  room.  But  I  want  to  know  whether  you  are  a  Communist,  and  I  want  my  son  to  know  whether  you  are  a  Communist.  I'm  not  asking  if  you  ever  have  been  a  Communist.  I  don't  care  about  the  past.  I  care  about  right  now.  I  have  to  tell  you  that  back  before  Roosevelt  I  was  so  disgusted  with  the  way  things  were  going  in  this  country,  and  with  the  anti-Semitism  and  anti-Negro  prejudice  in  this  coun-  try,  and  with  how  the  Republicans  scorned  the  unfortunate  in  this  country,  and  with  how  the  greed  of  big  business  was  milking  the  people  of  this  country  to  death,  that  one  day,  right  here  in  [REDACTED]-and  this  will  come  as  a  shock  to  my  son,  who  thinks  his  father,  a  lifelong  Democrat,  is  to  the  right  of  Franco-but  one  day  .  ..  Well,  Nathan,&quot;  he  said,  looking  now  at  me,  &quot;they  had  their  headquarters-you  know  where  the  Robert  Treat  Hotel  is?  Right  down  the  street.  Upstairs.  Thirty-eight  Park  Place.  They  had  offices  up  there.  One  was  the  office  of  the  Communist  Party.  I  never  even  told  this  to  your  mother.  She  would  have  killed  me.  She  was  my  girlfriend  then-this  must  be  1930.  Well,  one  time,  one  day,  I  was  angry.  Something  had  happened,  I  don't  even  remem-  ber  what  it  was  any  longer,  but  I  read  something  in  thepapers                                      and  I  remember  that  I  went  up  there,  and  nobody  was  there.  The  door  was  locked.  They  had  gone  to  lunch.  I  rat-  tled  the  door  handle.  That's  as  close  as  I  got  to  the  Commu-  nist  Party.  I  rattled  the  door  and  said,  Let  me  in.'  You  didn't  know  that,  did  you,  son?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  now  you  do.  Luck-  ily,  that  door  was  locked.  And  in  the  next  election  Franklin  Roosevelt  became  the  Presi-  dent,  and  the  kind  of  capital-  ism  thatsent  me  down  to  the  Communist  Party  office  began  to  get  an  overhaul  the  likes  of  which  this  country  had  never  seen.  A  great  man  saved  this  country's  capitalism  from  the  capitalists  and  saved  patriotic  people  like  me  from  Commu-              COMMUNIST  nism.  Saved  all  of  us  from  the  dictatorial  regime  that  results  from  Communism.  Let  me  tell  you  something  that  shook  me-the  death  of  Masaryk.  Did  that  bother  you,  Mr.  Ringold,  as  much  as  it  bothered  me?  I  always  admired  Masaryk  in  [REDACTED],  ever  since  I  first  heard  his  name  and  what  he  was  doing  for  his  people.  I  always  thought  of  him  as  the  Czech  Roosevelt.  I  don't  know  how  to  account  for  his  murder.  Do  you,  Mr.  Ringold?  I  was  troubled  by  it.  I  couldn't  believe  the  Communists  could  kill  a  man  like  that.  But  they  did....  Sir,  I  don't  want  to  get  started  having  a  political  ar-  gument.  I'm  going  to  ask  you  one  single  question,  and  I'd  like  you  to  answer  so  that  my  son  and  I  know  where  we  stand.  Are  you  a  member  of  the  Communist  Party?&quot;  &quot;No,  Doctor,  I'm  not.&quot;  &quot;Now  I  want  my  son  to  ask  you.  Nathan,  I  want  you  to  ask  Mr.  Ringold  if  he  is  now  a  member  of  the  Communist  Party.&quot;  To  put  such  a  question  to  somebody  went  against  my  every  political  princi-  ple.  But  because  my  father  wanted  me  to  and  because  my  father  had  asked  Ira  already  to  no  ill  effect  and  because  of  Sam  and  Sidney,  my  father's  dead  younger  brothers,  I  did  it.  &quot;Are  you,  Ira?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;Nope.  No,  sir.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  go  to  meetings  of  the  Communist  Party?&quot;  my  father  asked.  &quot;I  do  not.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  plan,  up  where  you  want  Nathan  to  visit  you-what's  the  name  of  the  place?&quot;  &quot;Zinc  Town.  Zinc  Town,  New  Jersey.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  plan  up  there  to  take  him  to  any  such  meetings?&quot;  &quot;No,  Doctor,  I  don't.  I  plan  on  taking  him  swimming  and  hiking  and  fishing.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad  to  hear  that,&quot;  said  my  fa-  ther.  &quot;I  believe  you,  sir.&quot;  &quot;May  I  now  ask  you  a  question?&quot;  Ira  said,  smiling  at  my  father  in  that  droll  sidewise  way  he  smiled  when  he  was  play-  ing  Abraham  Lincoln.  &quot;Why  do  you  have  me  down  for  a  Red  in  the  first  place?&quot;  'The  Progressive  Party,  Mr.  Ringold.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  Henry  Wallace  down  for  a  Red?  The  former  Vice-President  to  Mr.  Roosevelt?  Do  you  think  Mr.  Roosevelt  would  choose  a  Red  for  Vice-President  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED]&quot;&quot;  &quot;It's  not  as  simple  as  that,&quot;  my  father  replied.  &quot;I  wish  it  were.  But  what's  going  on  in  the  world  is  not  simple  at  all.&quot;  &quot;Dr.  Zuckerman,&quot;  said  Ira,  changing  tactics,  &quot;you  wonder  what  I'm  doing  with  Nathan?  I  envy  him-that's  what  I'm  doing  with  him.  I  envy  that  he  has  a  father  like  you.  I  envy  that  he  has  a  teacher  like  my  brother.  I  envy  that  he  has  good  eyes  and  can  read  without  glasses  a  foot  thick  and  isn't  an  idiot  who's  going  to  quit  school  so  as  to  go  out  and  dig  ditches.  I've  got  nothing  hidden  and  nothing  to  hide,  Doctor.  Except  that  I  wouldn't  mind  a  son  like  him  myself  some-  day.  Maybe  the  world  today  isn't  simple,  but  this  sure  is:  I  get  a  kick  out  of  talking  to  your  boy.  Not  every  kid  in  [REDACTED]  takes  as  his  hero  Tom  Paine.&quot;  Here  my  father  stood  up  and  ex-  tended  his  hand  to  Ira.  &quot;I  am»  a  father,  Mr.  Ringold-to  #wo  boys,  to  Nathan  and  to  Henry,  his  younger  brother,  who  is  also  somebody  to  crow  about.  And  my  responsibilities  as  a  father  ...  Well,  that's  all  that  this  has  been  about.&quot;  Ira  took  my  father's  ordinary-sized  hand  in  his  huge  one  and  pumped  it  once  very  hard,  so  hard-with  such  sin-  cerity  and  warmth-that  oil,  or  at  least  water,  a  pure  geyser  of  something,  might  asa  result  have  come  gushing  from  my  father's  mouth.  &quot;Dr.  Zuckerman,&quot;  Ira  said,  &quot;you  don't  want  your  son  stolen  from  you,  and  nobody  here  is  going  to  steal  him.&quot;  Whereupon  I  had  to  make  a  super-  human  effort  not  to  start  to  bawl.  I  had  to  pretend  to  myself  that  my  whole  aim  in  life  was  not  to  cry,  never  to  cry,  at  the  sight  of  two  men  affectionately  shaking  hands-and  I  barely  managed  to  suc-  ceed.  They'd  done  it!  Without  shouting!  Without  bloodshed!  Without  the  moti-  vating,  distorting  rage!  Magnificently  they  had  pulled  it  off-though  largely  because  Ira  was  not  telling  us  the  truth.  IRA  and  I  left  my  father's  office  together,  and  to  celebrate-purportedly  to  cel-  ebrate  my  upcoming  summer  visit  to  Zinc  Town  but  also,  complicitously,  to  celebrate  our  victory  over  my  dad-we  went  to  Stosh's,  a  few  blocks  away,  to  have  one  of  Stosh's  overstuffed  ham  sandwiches.  I  ate  so  much  with  Ira  at  four-fifteen  that  when  I  got  home,  at  five  of  six,  I  had  no  appetite  and  sat  at  my  place  at  the  table  while  everybody  else  ate  my  mother's  dinner-and  it  was  then  that  I  observed  in  my  father's  face  the  wound.  I  had  planted  it  there  earlier  by     69  going  out  the  door  of  his  office  with  Ira  and  not  staying  behind  to  talk  a  little  to  him  until  the  next  patient  showed  up.  At  first  I  tried  to  think  that  maybe  I  was  guiltily  imagining  that  wound,  be-  cause  of  having  felt  not  necessarily  con-  temptuous  of  him  but  certainly  superior,  leaving,  virtually  arm  in  arm,  with  Iron  Rinn  of  &quot;The  Free  and  the  Brave.&quot;  My  father  didn't  want  his  son  stolen  from  him,  and  though,  strictly  speaking,  nobody  had  stolen  anybody,  the  man  was  no  fool  and  knew  that  he  had  lost  and,  Communist  or  no  Com-  munist,  the  six-foot-six-inch  intruder  had  won.  I  saw  in  my  father's  face  a  look  of  resigned  disap-  pointment,  his  kind  gray  eyes  softened  by-distressfully  subdued  by-some-  thing  midway  between  melancholy  and  futility.  It  was  a  look  that  would  never  be  entirely  forgotten  by  me  when  I  was  alone  with  Ira,  or,later,  with  Leo  Glucksman,  Johnny  O'Day,  or  whom-  ever.  Just  by  taking  instruction  from  these  men,  I  seemed  to  myself  somehow  to  be  selling  my  father  short.  His  face  with  that  look  on  it  was  always  looming  up,  superimposed  on  the  face  of  the  man  who  was  then  educating  me  in  life's  pos-  sibilities.  His  face  bearing  the  wound  of  betrayal.  The  moment  when  you  first  recognize  that  your  father  is  vulnerable  to  others  is  bad  enough,  but  when  you  understand  that  he's  vulnerable  to  yo,  still  needs  you  more  than  you  any  longer  think  you  need  him,  when  you  realize  that  you  might  ac-  tually  be  able  to  frighten  him,  even  to  quash  him  if  you  wanted  to-well,  the  idea  is  at  such  cross-purposes  with  rou-  tine  filial  inclinations  that  it  does  not  even  begin  to  make  sense.  All  the  labor-  ing  he  had  gone  through  to  get  to  be  a  chiropodist,  a  provider,  a  protector,  and  I  was  now  running  off  with  another  man.  It  is,  morally  as  well  as  emotionally,  a  more  dangerous  game  than  one  knows  at  the  time,  getting  all  those  extra  fathers  like  a  pretty  girl  gets  beaux.  But  that  was  what  I  was  doing.  Always  making  my-  self  eminently  adoptable,  I  discovered  the  sense  of  betrayal  that  comes  of  trying  to  find  a  surrogate  father  even  thoughyou  love  your  own.  It  isn't  that  I  ever  de-  nounced  my  father  to  Ira  or  anyone  else  fora  cheap  advantage-it  was  enough  just,  by  exercising  my  freedom,  to  dump  the  man  I  loved  for  somebody  else.  If  only  I  had  hated  him,  it  would  have  been  easy.  