 b"60  FICTION  DREAM  PICTURES WHEN    my  son  was  born  with  a  bright-red  lump  the  size  of  a  second  head  attached  to  the  back  of  his  skull,  I  found  myself  unable  to  reveal  the  actual  situation  to  either  my  wife  or  my  mother  and,  having  installed  the  baby  in  intensive  care  at  N.  Univer-  sity  Hospital,  I  wandered  despondently  in  circles.  Two  and  a  half  months  later,  I  asked  Dr.  M.,  who  had  been  caring  for  my  son-and  looking  after  me  as  1  strug-  gled  to  recover  from  the  shock  of  his  birth-to  perform  surgery.  My  terrified  mother  arrived  in  4a6170616e  the  day  beforethe  operation,  and  that  evening  my  wife  tried  to  cheer  her;  still  in  her  twenties  and  not  yet  fully  recov-  ered  from  the  difficulties  of  the  birth,  she  resembled  a  baby  chick  being  blown  around  in  the  wind.  I  sat  there,  in  our  combination  living-and-dining  room,  banging  my  rattan  rocking  chair  against  a  glass  cupboard  and  feeling  out  of  place  as  I  watched  the  women  talk.  They  sat  on  the  synthetic  rug  on  the  wooden  floor  of  the  adjoining  room,  facing  each  other  across  a  small  trunk,  their  heads  nearly  touching.  Strangely,  for  two  peo-  ple  with  such  a  difference  in  age  and  no  blood  ties,  they  looked  very  much  alike.  My  wife  spoke  absently,  her  voice  thin  and  frail.  &quot;Eeyore  doesn't  respond  to  his  parents'  voices  like  a  normal  baby,&quot;  she  said,  using  the  nickname  I  had  cho-  sen  for  the  baby.  &quot;If  there's  a  time  during  the  surgery  when  life  and  death  meet,  we  won't  be  ableto  call  him  back  to  the  side  of  life.  It  worries  me  sick.&quot;  Shehad  been  saying  the  same  thing  fordays,  and  my  response  had  been  that  a  normal  child  wouldn't  be  much  better  off  if  that  happened,  and  that  all  we  could  do  was  leave  it  to  the  surgeon  and  hope  for  the  best.  But  my  mother's  agitation  resonated  with  my  wife's  and  amplified  it.  With  emphatic  nods  that  shook  herskinny   neck,  she  said,  &quot;That's  exactly  how  it  is!  In  our  region,  thevoice  of  a  relative  has  often  brought  a  person  who  was  about  to  die  right  back  to  life-&quot;  She  inhaled  sharply  and  seemed  to  bite  down  on  her  tongue.  In  an  attempt,  selfish  when  I  think  about  it  now,  tofind  someone  with  whom  I  could  discuss  the  abnormality  of  my  son's  birth,  I  had  gone  earlier  to  talkto  my  mentor,  Professor  W.  He  had  flushed  brightred  from  his  face  to  his  neck.  &quot;In  these  times  it's  not  always  clear  that  it's  betterto  have  been  born  than  not  to  have  been  born,&quot;  he  whis-  pered,  in  the  tone  of  voice  he  might  have  used  to  tell  ajoke  about  a  sad  and  pain-  ful  incident.  &quot;If  the  body  itself  incorporates  qual-  ities  that  lead  toward  life  and  toward  death,  and  if  a  baby  reaches  the  border  between  the  two,  let's  honor  the  baby's  freedom,&quot;  I  suggested  to  my  mother  and  my  wife.  &quot;It's  not  always  clear  that  it's  better  to  have  been  born  than  not  to  have  been  born  in  times  like  these!&quot;  But  they  both  ignored  these  words,  which  I  had  spoken  diffidently  as  I  banged  my  chair  against  the  wall  in  the  cramped  room.  Thanks  to  Dr.  M.  and  his  assistants,  the  long  operation  was  a  success,  my  son  was  liberated  from  the  glistening  lump,  and  my  wife  and  my  mother  were  un-  derstandably  overjoyed.  As  a  young  fa-  ther,  I  was  also  very  happy,  but  when  I  remembered  the  conversation  of  the  night  before  the  operation  I  felt  constrained  and  embarrassed  about  showing  my  joy.  HILE  Eeyore  was  still  a  child,  my  wife  and  I  often  discussed  his  apparent  inability  to  dream.  And  as  he  grew  older  I  repeatedly  tried  to  engage  him  in  conversation  about  it.  &quot;Eeyore,  doyou  really  not  dream?  You  go  to  sleep  at  night  and  wake  up  in  the  morning;  hasn't  it  ever  seemed  that  sometime  in  between  maybe  you're  at  a  concert?  Don't  you  ever  remember  anything  like  that  when  you  wake  up?&quot;  &quot;My  gosh,  that's  difficult!  I  forgot!&quot;  &quot;It  has  happened  but  you've  forgot-  ten?  Or  you  don't  remember  because  nothing  like  that  has  ever  happened?  You  take  your  medicine  at  night  and  go  to  sleep  and  nothing  happens?  Or  while  you're  sleeping  you  have  a  feeling  you're  listening  to  music,  anything  like  that?  Eeyore,  that's  called  having  a  dream.&quot;  &quot;Listening  to  music-Mozart  wrote  a  song  called  'Dream  Picture,  K.  552.  Gosh!  I  haven't  heard  it.  I'm  sorry!&quot;  Fruitless  as  it  was,  at  least  my  son  participated  willingly  in  this  exchange.  This  was  the  rare  exception.  As  I  re-  peatedly  tried  to  discuss  dreams  with  him,he  began  to  protest  adamantly:  &quot;That's  enough.  I  want  to  stop  now!&quot;  To  my  wife,  who  listened  in  silence,  his  resoluteness  was  terrifying.  I  suppose  she  was  afraid  that  the  day  would  come  when  Eeyore  would  close  his  mind  to  all  things  in  the  world,  our  family  fore-  most  among  them,  with  a  final  &quot;'That's  enough.  I  want  to  stop  now!&quot;  I  tried  to  console  her,  but  I,  too,  fretted.I  was  made  uneasy  by  another  image  of  dreams  and  of  fathers  and  sons.  I  had  not  created  the  image-which  was  of  Abraham  and  his  son,  Isaac-but  it  had  planted  itself  inside  me  in  the  form  of  words:  &quot;My  son!  I  have  beheld  a  dream  in  which  I  offer  thee  in  sacrifice.&quot;  &quot;O  my  father!  Do  as  thou  art  commanded:  Thou  will  find  me,  if  God  so  wills,  one  prac-  ticing  patience  and  constancy.&quot;  I  had  sometimes  called  to  mind  this  glorious  dialogue  when,  alone  in  the  middleof  the  night  and  buoyed  by  the  power  of  alcohol,  I  was  confronted  by  a  thought  that  I  could  only  let  pass  through  me  like  a  storm,  with  my  face  flushed  and  my  head  bowed,  a  thought  that  will  circle  around  me  my  entire  life.  For  the  first  five  weeks  orso  following  \xc2\xa7  my  son's  abnormal  birth,  I  had  longed  \xc2\xa3  \xe2\x82\xac  for  his  death.  My  longing  was  not  based  2  " b"on  the  kind  of  revelation  that  appeared  to  Abraham  in  a  dream,  or  on  my  son's  complicity;  it  was  merely  the  egotistical  desire  to  protect  a  future  for  myself  and  my  wife,  a  longing  that  was  searingly  ur-  gent,  like  hot  coals  beneath  my  feet.  If,  during  those  five  weeks,  I  had  found  the  accomplice  I  was  looking  for  in  the  hospital  where  the  baby  was  kept,  would  I  have  succeeded  in  eliminating  my  son  and  extinguishing  his  brief  memories  of  life?  I  somehow  managed  to  recover.  Since  then  we  have  survived,  and  my  son  has  now  made  it  past  his  nineteenth  birth-  day.  Even  so,  no  powerful  detergent  has  allowed  me  to  wash  those  disgraceful  weeks  out  of  my  life,  nor  do  I  ever  expect  to  do  so.  Given  thishistory,as  my  son  developed  his  intellectual  power  step  by  deliberate  step,  I  was  prepared  for  the  day  when  he  would  saythe  following  (I  imagined  that  his  voice  would  be  soft,  as  it  was  at  age  five  or  six  when,  ableto  dis-  tinguish  as  many  as  a  hundred  different  bird  calls,  he  would  murmur,  for  exam-  ple,  &quot;Kingfisher,  red  kingfisher&quot;):  &quot;Father,  to  tell  the  truth,  since  I  was  very  small  I've  been  having  the  same  dream.  In  my  dream,  I've  just  been  born,  and  you're  trying  hard  tofind  a  way  to  murder  me.&quot;  \xc2\xa5  wife  happened  to  be  out  when  Eeyore  had  his  first  major  seizure,  two  years  ago.  It  began  not  with  scream-  ing  or  spasms  but,  rather,  with  an  un-  usual  atmosphere  that  I  can  best  describe  as  the  obverse  of  those  more  familiar  symptoms.  We  were  in  the  living  room;  I  lay  reading  on  the  couch  as  always,  and  my  son  was  sprawled  on  the  rug  listening  to  Mozart.  Eventually,  instead  of  putting  on  a  new  record,  he  pushed  the  pile  he  had  selected  away  from  his  body  with  both  elbows,  like  an  infant  with  no  ap-  petite  weakly  rejecting  his  food.  This  stuck  in  my  consciousness  like  a  small  thorn.  But  I  continued  to  read.  Before  long,  I  had  a  sense  of  interruption  and  suspension.  I  looked  up.  All  expression  had  left  my  son's  face  as  he  lay  there,  propped  upon  his  elbows.  His  open  eyes  were  like  stones.  Saliva  was  drooling  from  between  his  slightly  parted  lips.  &quot;Eeyore!  Eeyore!  What's  wrong?&quot;  I  called  to  him.  But  he  was  completelyen-  gaged  with  the  trouble  inside  him.  As  if  tosaythat  this  wasno  time  to  be  re-  sponding  to  the  exterior,  not  even  to  the  voice  of  his  father,  he  remained  motion,  less,  his  head  resting  heavily  in  his  hands,  his  face  a  void.  Continuing  to  call  to  him,  I  jumped  up,  and,  in  the  brief  moment  it  took  me  to  move  to  his  side,  he  began  slapping  the  floor  with  his  left  hand  and  arm,  not  wildly  but  with  deliberate  force.  Slap,  slap,  he  struck  the  floor,  and  then  his  eyes  rolled  up  and  showed  white.  &quot;Eeyore!  Eeyore!  Are  you  all  right?  Does  it  hurt?&quot;  As  I  shouted  meaningless  questions  I  wrapped  a  handkerchief  I  took  from  my  pocket  around  my  left  thumb  and  forced  it  between  my  son's  teeth.  He  immediately  bit  grindingly  down  on  the  joint.  I  moaned  as  though  for  him,  suffering  silently.  A  minute  or  two  later  he  stopped  slapping  the  floor  and  slackened  his  clenched  teeth.  I  lifted  him  as  he  rolled  over  onto  his  back,  and  when  I  laid  him  on  the  couchhe  fell  deeply  asleep,  snoring  with  a  volume  that  was  menacing.  For  several  days  after  this  seizure,  my  son  was  withdrawn,  doleful,  and  silent,  as  though  the  knot  inside  his  body  had  yet  to  untangle.  He  was  lying  on  the  couch  watching  the  news  on  television  one  evening  when,  suddenly,  at  the  news-  caster's  mention  of  the  death  of  a  cer-  tainelderly  master  in  the  world  of  Jap-  anese  classical  music,  he  sat  up  with  sur-  prising  agility  and  shouted  emotionally,  &quot;Oh!  He  died!  He's  dead!  He's  com-  pletely  dead!&quot;  There  was  something  in  my  son's  poignant  lament,  full  of  grief,  that  was  a  shock  to  me.  I  was  caught  off  guard;  it  was  almost  comic.  &quot;What's  wrong,  Eeyore?  Did  you  like  him  that  much?&quot;  As  I  questioned  him,  I  felt  as  if  I  might  burst  out  laughing.  I'm  sure  I  was  smiling.  But  my  son  didn't  respond;  falling  back  onto  thecouch,  he  covered  his  face  with  both  hands  and  went  rigid.  It  was  too  late  to  take  back  my  words,  though  I  did  lose  my  smile.  I  moved  to  the  couch,  continuing,  &quot;Eeyore,  c'mon,  isit  that  sur-  prising  that  he  died?&quot;  Kneeling  at  his  side,I  tried  shaking  my  son  by  the  shoul-  ders,  but  he  only  stiffenedhis  body  more.  I  tried  to  pull  at  his  hands,  but  they  cov-  ered  his  face  with  the  firmness  of  a  steel  lid  that  had  been  welded  in  place.  All  I  could  do  was  kneel  there  staring  at  his  ten  fingers;  alone  they  revealed  a  sentient  fineness  that  isolated  them  from  the  rest  of  his  body.  It  was  completely  impossible  to  reach  G61  my  son.  He  remained  closed  inside  him-  self  and  did  not  respond  in  any  way  to  my  inquiries.  I  had  nothing  to  guide  me  toward  an  understanding  of  what  could  have  produced  that  heart-piercing  cry  of  bereavement.  How  in  the  world  had  he  managed  to  create  such  strong  feelings  about  death?  I  was  to  be  given  an  answer  to  this  question  soon  enough.  That  same  week,  my  son,  still  deep  in  the  lassitude  that  had  persisted  after  his  seizure,  was  lis-  tening  to  an  FM  broadcast  with  the  vol-  ume  turned  way  up.  This  continued  for  hours,  until  everyone  in  the  family  lost  patience.  &quot;Eeyore,  could  you  please  turn  it  down  a  little?&quot;  his  younger  sister  finally  said.  Eeyore's  sister  was  half  his  size  and  he  made  her  cower  with  a  wildly  menac-  ing  gesture.  &quot;Eeyore!  You  know  better  than  that!&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;After  Papaand  I  are  dead,  your  brother  and  sister  will  have  to  look  after  you.  If  you  behave  this  way  no  one  will  like  you  and  how  will  you  get  along  after  we're  dead?&quot;  So  that  was  it,  I  acknowledged  to  my-  self  regretfully.  In  this  way  we  had  re-  peatedly  introduced  my  son  to  the  ques-  tion  of  death.  But  this  time  his  response  to  our  refrain  was  something  entirely  new.  &quot;It's  all  right!  Because  I'll  die.  I'll  be  dying  soon.  So  it's  all  right!&quot;  For  an  instant  there  was  a  pause,  like  an  intake  of  breath-which  meant  that  my  wife  had  been  as  startled  as  I  had  at  the  conviction  of  his  unexpected  declara-  tion,  despite  the  subdued  voice  in  which  he  had  delivered  it-then  she  continued,  speaking  now  in  a  tone  that  was  more  conciliatory.  &quot;Of  course  you're  not  going  to  die,  Eeyore.  What  makes  you  think  you're  going  to  die?  Who  told  you  that?&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  dying  right  away.  Because  I  had  a  seizure!  It's  all  right.  Because  I'll  be  dying!&quot;  I  moved  to  my  wife's  side  where  she  stood  at  the  couch  and  looked  down  at  my  son:  he  was  covering  his  face  firmly  with  both  hands,  his  darkeyebrows  and  the  sharply  raised  bridge  of  his  nose,  which  resembled  his  movie-actor  uncle's,  visible  between  his  fingers.  New  words  seemed  to  stick  in  our  throats,  as  if  we  both  felt  how  futile  they  would  be.  His  voice  had  been  so  forceful,  yet  he  was  perfectly  still,  not  a  muscle  moving.  Thirty  minutes  later,  as  my  wife  and  I  sat  in  silence,  facing  each  other  at  the  " b"62  table  in  our  dining  room,  my  son  shuf-  fled  past  us  on  his  way  to  the  bathroom.  He  was  still  covering  his  face  with  both  hands.  His  sister,  feeling  responsible  for  the  situation  earlier,  was  at  his  side,  clinging  to  him  as  she  spoke.  &quot;Eeyore,  be  careful!  If  you  cover  your  face  while  you  walk  you'll  bump  into  things.  You  could  trip  and  hit  your  head!&quot;  Eeyore's  younger  brother  also  fell  into  step  and  followed  him  to  the  bathroom.  Through  the  unclosed  door  came  the  sound  of  long  and  copious  urination.  Finished,  my  son  headed  straight  into  his  mother's  bedroom  across  the  hall.  &quot;I  think  it's  bad  to  talk  that  way,&quot;  my  daughter  said,  returning.  &quot;It  makes  Eey-  ore  lonely  to  think  of  the  future.&quot;  Her  face,as  if  covered  in  goose  pimples,  seemed  pinched  and  small.  Forlornly,  ashamed  of  ourselves,  my  wife  and  I  were  both  recalling  the  words  we  had  repeated  endlessly  until  now-  Eeyore,  what  will  become  of  you  after  we  die?  What  will  you  do?  For  my  own  part,  I  was  also  realizing  that,  inasmuch  as  I  had  never  really  considered  how  those  crucial  words  might  echo  deep  in  my  son's  heart,  I  had  also  not  yet  arrived  at  a  definition  of  what  death  meant  to  me,  let  alone  what  it  meant  to  him.  As  he  recovered  from  the  effects  of  the  seizure  and  went  back  to  his  special  class  at  middle  school,  my  son  seemed  to  regain  his  psychological  well-being.  Nevertheless,  it  was  clear  that  a  concept  of  death,  whatever  its  nature,  had  taken  root  in  him.  Every  morning,  when  he  finished  dressing  himself  for  school,  he  went  into  the  living  room.  Spreading  his  plump  thighs  and  dropping  his  rear  heavily  to  the  floor,  he  sat  down  on  the  rug  and  opened  the  morning  paper  to  read  the  obituaries.  Encountering  the  name  of  a  new  illness,  he  would  hold  his  breath  as  he  deciphered  the  Chinese  characters  he  had  learned  by  showing  them  to  my  wife  and  me,  and  then  recite  with  feeling,  &quot;Ah!  There  was  lots  of  dying  again  this  morning!  Pernicious  pneumonia.  Age  eighty-nine.  Coronary  infarction.  Age  sixty-nine.  Bronchial  pneumonia.  Age  eighty-three.  Ah!  This  gentleman  was  the  founder  of  fugu-fish-  poisoning  research.  Lung  cancer.  Age  eighty-six.  Ah!  There  was  plenty  of  dying  again!&quot;  He  also  became  sensitive  to  stories  of  food  poisoning  on  the  evening  news.  Be-  ginning  in  the  rainy  season,  in  June  and  into  the  summer,  a  number  of  incidents  were  reported.  Each  time  he  would  rush  to  the  television  and  repeat  at  the  top  of  his  lungs,  for  example,&quot;Ah!  An  entire  party  at  the  Nippori  Outdoor  Market  got  food  poisoning  from  their  bento  lunches.  The  bentos  were  of  the  tea-shop  variety!&quot;  When  we  took  a  trip,  a  week  or  two  later,  he  wouldn't  touch  the  box  lunch  at  the  train  station  which  he  usually  looked  forward  to  so  eagerly.  We  urged  him  re-  peatedly  to  eat.  Before  long  his  eyes  be-  came  severely  crossed,  and,  covering  his  mouth  with  one  hand,  he  thrust  the  other  out  in  front  of  him  defensively.  This  rejection  was  so  urgent  that  strangers  turned  to  eyeus  suspiciously,  as  if  we  were  imposing  some  cruel  punishment  on  our  child.  That  summer,  my  son  also  stopped  eating  sushi,  one  of  his  favorites  until  then.  Pigs'  feet,  which  he'd  always  liked,  became  another  of  the  dishes  he  refused  to  touch,  after  overeating  gave  him  diarrhea.  The  result  was  that  he  lost  twenty-two  pounds  in  just  under  a  year.  Because  he  was  meticulous  about  tak-  ing  his  medicine,  he  suffered  no  more  major  seizures,  but  there  were,  over  the  next  year,  a  number  of  episodes  that  seemed  to  be  the  precursors  of  a  seizure.  Each  time  this  happened,  staying  home  from  school  and  spending  the  day  on  the  couch,  my  son  would  mournfully  an-  nounce  a  new  physical  symptom:  &quot;Ah!  There's  not  a  sound  coming  from  my  heart!  I  think  I'm  dying!&quot;  My  wife  and  I  would  fashion  a  steth-  oscope  from  a  rubber  tube  and  hold  it  to  my  son's  chest  and  one  of  his  ears,  Or  we  would  provide  some  basic  informa-  tion  about  coronary  seizure,  choosing  words  he  could  accept,  struggling  some-  how  to  ease  his  concern  about  death.  ET  autumn,  my  wife  and  I  made  plans  totake  the  children  to  our  cabin  in  the  mountainsof  Izu.  We  had  decided  to  leave  on  a  Saturday,  but  a  large  typhoon  was  approaching  and  a  weather  report  predicted  that  its  eastward  course  would  bring  it  to  theIzu  [REDACTED]  the  follow-  ing  morning-precisely  when  we  would  have  been  at  the  cabin.  We  abandoned  the  idea  of  the  excursion  and  told  the  children.  Eeyore  listened  and  did  not  re-  act,  so  I  assumed  that  a  trip  to  the  cabin  was  of  no  particular  importance  to  him.  However,  that  Saturday,  at  just  the  time  when  we  would  have  been  leaving  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  13,  1998  the  house,  Eeyore  stood  at  the  front  door  in  the  stiff,  heavy  leather  shoes  he  nor-  mally  refused  to  wear,a  large  pack  on  his  back  and  a  mountain-climbing  hat  on  his  head,  and  announced,  as  though  he  were  trying  to  convince  himself,  &quot;Shall  we  get  started?  I'm  on  my  way  to  the  Izu  house!&quot;  When  the  rest  of  us  failed  to  ap-  pear  with  our  luggage  he  continued  wait-  ing,  suspiciously.  At  that  point,  my  wife  and  his  sister  and  brother  tried  to  con-  vince  Eeyore  that  the  trip  to  the  moun-  tains  had  been  cancelled.  My  daughter  used  his  interest  in  the  weather  map  on  television.  &quot;Eeyore,  atyphoon's  coming!  I  wonder  what  the  low  will  be-pretty  cold,  I  bet!&quot;  His  brother  shared  knowl-  edge,  which  he  had  probably  acquired  from  a  magazine  article,  about  the  Izu  [REDACTED]'s  having  floated  on  the  Pacific  until  it  collided  with  its  current  location  and  became  attached.&quot;If  that's  the  case,  the  peninsula  might  float  back  out  into  the  Pacific  someday.  And  we  might  never  get  back.&quot;  My  son's  response  to  this  persuasion  was  simple  and  apposite  and  for  that  rea-  son  formidable.  &quot;I  have  a  winter  sweater.  I  think  we  should  get  there  beforethe  Izu  [REDACTED]  floats  away.  They  say  a  ty-  phoon  is  coming!&quot;  In  the  end,  my  wife  threatened  him  with  a  scolding  from  me  if  I  heard  him  being  so  unreasonable  while  I  was  try-  ing  to  work  in  my  study,  but,  far  from  panicking,  he  looked  away  from  my  wife  and  from  his  distressed  brother  and  sister  and,  in  a  curious  display  of  obstinacy,  gazed  at  nothing  at  all  with  empty  eyes.  Then  he  said,  &quot;No,  Papa  is  dead!  He  died,  you  know.  I'm  on  my  way  to  Izu  by  myself  because  Papa  is  dead.  Goodbye,  everyone.  Farewell!&quot;  When  my  wife  told  me  this  a  few  minutes  later,  I  looked  out  the  window.  There  were  few  trees  in  the  garden,  but  among  them  the  dogwood  and  the  birch  were  swaying  in  the  wind.  Only  the  camellia,  with  its  thick  trunk  and  stiff  fo-  liage,  was  still;  or,  rather,  if  you  looked  closely  even  the  camellia  was  moving,  but  on  a  different  frequency  than  the  young  trees.  Since  morning  it  had  been  a  little  windy  andhad  rained  in  fits  and  starts;  it  was  as  if  fat  drops  of  dew  were  hanging  heavily  in  the  air.  In  the  distance  the  sky  was  pitch  black  and  ominous;  in-  side  banks  of  dark  cloudsdarker  clouds  boiled  and  billowed.  Even  so,  the  wind  wasn't  sostrong  you  couldn't  walk  against  " b" it-which  is  what  Eeyore  would  say-  and  the  rain  wasn't  hard  enough  to  require  an  umbrella.  In  fact,  he  had  already  walked  to  the  bus  stop  that  morning  and  made  the  trip  to  and  from  his  school.  I  put  aside  the  essay  I  had  been  work-  ing  on  and  stood  up.  I  sensed  my  wife  flinch-she  was  still  turned  away  from  me  in  silence-but  I  was  not  at  that  mo-  ment  angry  at  Eeyore.  I  was  merely  per-  plexed.  As  I  headed  for  the  stairs,  I  still  assumed  that  it  wouldn't  be  hard  to  con-  vince  Eeyore  that  we  should  remain  in  4a6170616e  until  the  typhoon  passed.  But  when  I  looked  down  at  his  large  head,  at  the  backpack  on  his  back  which  was  now  as  tall  and  as  broad  as  any  adult's,  and  saw  an  ancient  doll  strapped  to  his  side  as  he  stood  planted  fiercely  in  front  of  the  door,  I  felt  myself  letting  go  of  com-  mon  sense  with  a  shudder  of  abandon  and  began  to  prepare  myself  for  a  depar-  ture  with  Eeyore  for  the  wind-whipped  storm  that  awaited  us  in  Izu.  The  large  doll  he  had  lashed  to  his  body,  almost  three  feet  tall  with  abun-  dant  black  hair,  ogling  eyes,  and  an  over-  bite,  was  Tiny  Chiyo,  a  filthy,  damaged  doll  that  had  been  abandoned  in  the  shed  for  four  or  five  years.  Eeyore  looked  like  a  warrior  on  his  way  to  a  final,  des-  perate  battle  with  his  child  at  his  side.  &quot;When  I  told  him  none  of  us  were  going  to  Izu,  he  dragged  out  Tiny  Chiyo.&quot;  My  daughter  sounded  embar-  rassed.  Her  younger  brother  also  twisted  away  from  the  doll's  open-shuttered  eyes.  &quot;I'm  going  with  him,&quot;  I  said.  As  I  was  packing  my  suitcase  in  the  living  room,  Eeyore's  brother  approached  in  silence  with  his  own  things.  Appar-  ently  his  impulse  accurately  reflected  my  wife's  own  anxiety,  which  she  now  ex-  pressed:  &quot;That's  a  good  idea-better  that  the  three  of  you  should  go  than  just  Papa  and  Eeyore!&quot;  &quot;No.  Eeyore  and  I  will  go  alone!&quot;  I  said,  aware  that  my  loud  voice  was  a  hurtful  blow  to  Eeyore's  brother.  I  was  asserting  myself  violently:  The  rest  of  the  family,  those  who  wish  to  continue  existing  in  this  world,  are  excused.  Eey-  ore  and  I  are  free  to  behave  as  crazily  as  we  want.  Eeyore's  brother  and  sister,  as  if  ashamed  of  themselves,  though  they  had  no  reason  to  feel  that  way,  retreated  to  their  rooms.  Without  another  word  to  my  wife,  Eeyore  and  I  set  out  from  the  " b"64  house  like  knights  departing  for  the  Cru-  sades,  all  eyes  on  him  as  we  went,  the  doll  still  lashed  to  his  body.  From  Seo  Gakuen  to  Odawara  we  rode  standing,  jammed  in  among  the  commuters  who  filled  the  train.  As  peo-  ple  stared,  Eeyore  declined  to  remove  not  only  Tiny  Chiyo  but  even  his  backpack;  he  looked  stubbornly  downward  at  the  floor,  his  head  bowed,  behaving  as  if  he  were  travelling  by  himself;  and  I  couldn't  even  bring  myself  to  hoist  his  pack  into  the  luggage  net  above  our  heads.  We  stood  with  our  backs  to  one  another  as  if  we  were  strangers.  Eeyore's  body  odor  was  curiously  strong,  and  I  could  tell  even  while  turned  away  that  he  had  not  alighted  at  a  station  and  was  still  stand-  ing  at  my  side.  At  Odawara  we  transferred  to  the  National  Railroad,  and  as  far  as  Atami  the  train  seemed  normally  crowded  for  the  hour;  when  we  changed  to  the  Ito  line  after  buying  box  lunches  for  sup-  per,  there  were  very  few  passengers.  The  sea  was  already  dark,  and  the  mountain-  side  was  also  in  heavy  shadow,  but  there  were  instants  when  light  glinted  faintly  off  the  trees  as  they  bent  to  the  wind.  As  we  crossed  an  iron  bridge  I  glimpsed  a  swollen  river.  When  we  reached  Ito  we  learned  that  the  track  ahead  was  impassable.  Eeyore  was  continuing  to  behave  as  though  he  were  travelling  alone,  but  as  this  included  listening  carefully  to  the  announcements  there  was  no  need  to  explain  anything  to  him.  We  came  out  of  the  station,  Eeyore  following  two  or  three  steps  behind  me,  and  I  made  a  deal  with  one  of  the  taxis  waiting  in  what  was  now  a  pouring  rain  to  take  us  to  our  mountain  cabin.  &quot;Checking  upon  your  place?  Shall  I  stop  for  batteries  for  my  flashlight?&quot;  the  driver  asked,  trying  hard  not  to  stare  at  Eeyore.  &quot;If  it  gets  really  bad  I'm  turning  around.  I  can't  let  you  off  and  not  get  back  myself  !  They  say  the  typhoon'll  hit  Izu  right  between  the  eyes.&quot;  Aswe  drove,  the  storm  increased  in  violence,  but  the  driver  managed  some-  how  to  deliver  us  to  our  cabin.  He  even  lit  the  way  for  us  with  his  headlights.  By  the  time  we  reached  the  front  door,  thirty  feet  away,  we  were  soaking  wet.  The  path  at  our  feet  remained  in  dark-  ness;  what  the  driver's  lights  caught  and  lit  so  brilliantly  that  it  hurt  the  eyes  was  the  deep  ocean  of  leaf  on  the  frenzied  branches  of  the  mountain  peach  tree,  which  seemed  about  to  go  up  in  flames  as  the  wind  whipped  it  against  the  trunk  of  a  cypress  tree.  Struggling  with  the  door  against  the  buffeting  wind,  I  man-  aged  to  get  Eeyore  inside,  then  went  around  to  the  rear  of  the  house  for  an  armful  ofdead  branches  to  use  as  firewood.  As  I  came  back,  the  wood  I  was  carrying  caught  on  the  branchof  a  tree,  which  snapped  back  and  struck  me  across  the  face,  knocking  my  glasses  off  and  leaving  me  with  a  bloody  nose.  But  once  I  had  closed  the  door  be-  hind  me  I  experienced  a  certain  peaceful-  nessthat  was  very  different  from  the  painful  state  of  mind  I  had  been  in  until  then.  For  one  thing,  Eeyore  had  grown  alert  as  soon  as  he  got  inside  and,  with  the  electricity  off,  seemed  to  be  using  the  flashlight  to  move  around  upstairs  from  the  dining  room  to  the  living  room.  I  got  towels  from  the  bathroom  and  brought  them  up  along  with  a  mattress  from  my  bedroom  which  was  plenty  large  enough  for  both  of  us.  I  had  Eeyore  get  un-  dressed  and  dry  himself  while  I  went  back  downstairs  for  bedding;  guessing  my  intention  to  build  a  fire  and  sleep  in   front  of  the  fireplace,  he  positioned  and  straightened  the  mattress,  propping  Tiny  Chiyo  on  the  floor  alongside  it.  I  placed  a  bundle  of  the  wet  branches  in  the  fireplace  and  lit  some  torn  mag-  azine  pages  on  top  of  the  wood.  As  I  hadn't  opened  the  valve  in  the  propane-  gas  shed  at  the  edge  of  the  property,  we  couldn't  boil  water.  I  gave  Eeyore  his  box  lunch  from  the  train  station  and  a  cup  of  water,  poured  sake  from  a  five-litre  bottle  in  the  kitchen  into  my  own  cup,  and  began  drinking  as  I  tended  the  fire.  Eeyore,  his  large  body  hunched  over  in  the  darkness,  squinted  into  the  lunchbox  to  inspect  its  contents  as  he  ate  them.  He  ate  in  silence,  taking  a  long  time  to  finish,  then  lay  down  in  the  very  center  of  the  quilt  on  top  of  the  mat-  tress,  placing  Tiny  Chiyo  at  his  side,  and  fell  asleep,  snoring  loudly,  as  he  did  after  a  seizure.  I  was  left  alone  in  front  of  the  struggling  fire.  The  wind  and  heavy  raindrops  rattled  the  wooden  shutters.  At  some  point  I  heard  a  cracking,  as  though  a  large  tree  had  been  sheared  off  at  the  trunk.  Ee-  yore's  snores  changed  to  a  sound  like  moaning  as  he  slept.  Lying  on  his  back  on  the  quilt,  his  legs  straight  out,  he  was  like  a  mummy  in  its  tomb.  Next  to  him,  its  spring-loaded  eyes  also  closed,  Tiny  Chiyo  was  a  smaller  mummy  who  had  been  buried  with  his  master.  I  read  by  the  light  of  the  fire  without  the  help  of  glasses.  I  grew  drowsy.  The  sum  total  of  my  work  as  a  writer  seemed  shallow  and  simplistic.  Moreover,  I  felt  that  time  was  running  out  and  that  I  had  not  accomplished  a  single  thing  I  should  truly  have  been  doing.  I  had  declared  my  desire  to  define  everything  in  and  of  this  world  for  my  son's  sake,  but  hadn't  man-  aged  to  do  so.  What  if  Eeyore  were  a  college  sophomore  today,  his  brain  un-  damaged,  and  came  to  me  with  a  ques-  tion:  &quot;Father,  as  honestly  as  you  can,  please  tell  me  the  definition  of  death  you've  managed  to  derive  from  all  your  years  of  life.&quot;  Obviously  if  I  were  posed  this  question  by  a  son  with  a  healthy  mind,  I  couldn't  very  well  sit  there  lost  in  thought  while  he  peered  at  me.  I  thought  of  William  Blake,  of  the  god  Tharmas  in  &quot;The  Four  Zoas.&quot;  At  the  beginning  of  this  epic  poem,  a  manifes-  tation  of  the  confusion  of  the  world,  Tharmas  and  his  lover  Enion  must  sepa-  rate,  and  their  song  of  grief  at  the  mo-  ment  of  separation  haunts  me.  There  is  a  " b" special  poignancy  in  Tharmas's  linesas  he  sits  weeping  in  his  clouds,  trembling  and  pale,  &quot;&amp;  I  am  like  an  atom,  /A  Nothing,  left  in  darkness;  yet  I  am  an  identity:  /I  wish  &amp;  feel  &amp;  weep  &amp;  groan.  Ah,  terrible!  terrible!&quot;  In  the  grips  of  the  premise  that  I  had  a  healthy  son,  a  college  student  inhis  second  year  who  had  asked  me  a  question,  I  said,  &quot;Eeyore!  At  the  moment  of  death  perhaps  we  can  only  repeat  the  lament  of  Tharmas!  Pale  and  trembling,  the  high  hospital  bed  feeling  like  our  clouds.&quot;  To  be  sure,  the  noise  of  the  storm,  which  seemed  unabated,  was  all  around  me,  but  even  so  the  fact  that  I  spoke  these  words  aloud  must  have  meant  that  I  was  drunk.  I  think  I  was  also  half  asleep.  Suddenly  Ifelt  the  touch  of  a  calm  and  gentle  hand  which  was  scarcely  a  touch  at  all  on  my  shoulder  and  my  arm  and  around  my  chest,  waking  me,  and  I  heard  a  voice:  &quot;It'sall  right!  It's  all  right!  It's  a  dream.  You're  just  dreaming!  There's  nothing  at  all  to  be  afraid  of.  It's  just  a  dream!&quot;  And  even  so  I  seemed  to  go  on  with  what  I  was  saying,  lifting  my  voice  against  the  noise  of  the  wind,  continuing  to  speak  to  the  half-phantom  that  was  my  son.  When  I  opened  my  eyes,  Eeyore  was  kneeling  at  my  side,  quieting  my  body  with  both  arms  outstretched,  holding  me  in  the  gaze  of  his  ink-colored  eyes  beneath  eyebrows  that  were  thick  and  dark  in  the  light  of  the  fire.  As  Isat  up,  Eeyore  moved  backward  with  the  quick  agility  he  sometimes  demonstrated  and,  moving  Tiny  Chiyo  aside,  created  a  place  for  me  to  sleep.  Then  he  laid  himself  down  again,  on  his  back,  and  I  lay  down  beside  him,  also  on  my  back,  and  pulled  the  quilt  over  both  of  us.  In  my  drunken  momentum  I  fell  right  to  sleep,  without  reflecting  on  the  strange-  ness  of  Eeyore's  words.  For  just  an  in-  stant  I  seemed  to  be  aware  of  something  quietly  receding  through  the  dining  area  that  adjoined  the  living  room  and  through  the  door  that  had  been  left  open  into  the  darkness  of  the  stairs  beyond.  HEN  I  woke  up,  Eeyore's  body  was  not  beside  me  and  the  window  farthest  away  from  the  fireplace  where  I  was  lying  had  been  opened  and  light  was  coming  in.  Piercing  the  smell  of  smoke  that  filled  the  room,  the  acrid  scent  of  pine  was  so  raw  it  made  my  head  pound.  I  twisted  my  body  toward  the  light  and  discovered  adarkly  silhouetted  figure  slumped  forward  in  one  of  the  chairs  be-  tween  me  and  the  whitened  window.  As  I  gazed  for  a  moment  at  what  appeared  to  be  my  wife,  I  noticed  that  there  was  something  out  of  the  ordinary,  some-  thing  deficient  about  the  view  through  the  frameof  the  sunlit  window.  More-  over,  something  black  and  flat  appeared  and  disappeared  in  that  lucid  space,  as  though  it  were  being  thrown  up-  ward,  then  thrown  again.  Groping  out  of  long  habit  in  the  area  around  my  head,  I  found  the  eyeglasses  which  should  not  have  been  there  and  recognized  the  black  ob-  ject  as  a  crow,  a  great  fat  crow,  an  old  bird  I  knew  well.  It  would  perch  in  our  giant  pine  and  take  flight  at  times  as  if  to  get  some  exercise,  glide  out  of  sight,  and  then  return  and  rest  its  wings.  Now  the  exposed  branch  near  the  top  of  the  tree  where  it  was  easy  to  perch  was  gone,  and  gone  with  it  was  the  entire  pine.  &quot;Eeyore  found  your  glasses  and  wouldn't  let  anyone  else  bring  them  to  you,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;They're  all  outside  cleaning  up.  They  want  to  store  the  broken  branches  to  use  for  firewood.&quot;  &quot;The  big  pine  must  be  down!  Such  an  ancient  tree-it  survives  everything  and  then  one  night  it  just  suddenly  snaps.  It's  strange.&quot;  &quot;It  fell  right  across  the  road  and  brought  down  the  phone  lines.  You  must  have  heard  the  noise.&quot;  &quot;I  did.  Didn't  you?&quot;  &quot;We  just  got  here  this  morning.&quot;  &quot;You  did?  Late  last  night  I  thought  you  were  standing  in  the  corridor.&quot;  For  an  instant  the  silhouetted  body  seemed  to  tighten;  then,  in  a  voice  that  struggled  to  contain  strong  feelings,  my  wife  said,  'There  is  no  way  I  could  have  been  standing  there  watching  you.  The  three  of  us  stayed  in  a  business  hotel  in  Ito.&quot;  After  Eeyore  and  I  had  left,  my  wife  and  the  two  younger  children  had  set  out  for  Izu  themselves  via  the  bullet  train  from  4a6170616e  Station.  But  even  the  bullet  train  was  slowed  down  as  a  result  of  the  typhoon,  and  by  the  time  they  reached  Ito  it  was  close  to  ten  o'clock.  The  taxi  they  found  in  front  of  the  station  hap-  pened  to  be  the  same  one  that  had  brought  me  and  Eeyore  to  our  mountain  cabin.  The  driver  was  not  unwilling  to  bring     65  them  as  well  if  they  insisted,  even  though  the  wind-driven  rain  was  worse  then  than  it  had  been  two  hours  before,  but  he  did  want  to  stop  at  the  police  station  on  the  way  to  register  us  as  a  potential  fam-  ily  suicide.  ...  He  then  took  my  thor-  oughly  disheartened  wife  and  children  to  a  business  hotel  alive  with  commuters  from  Izu  and  helped  them  to  check  in.  &quot;Family  suicide,  what  a  cheery  fellow!&quot;  I  tried  to  cover  with  a  laugh,  but  my  wife's  shadowed  profile  remained  taut.  I  lay  back  again.  My  wife  spoke  the  words  she  must  have  been  consider-  ing  deep  inside  herself  until  now:  &quot;Yesterday  Saku&quot;-our  younger  son-'&quot;said  Eeyore  would  probably  calm  down  when  he  got  to  the  house,  but  there  was  no  way  of  know-  ing  what  Papa  might  start  ~-.  thinking  when  he  got  to  Izu.  'So  we'd  better  go  after  them,'  he  said,  'because  of  Papa!  &quot;  I  could  hear  what  was  now  a  dry  and  even  wind  and  the  children's  voices,  particularly  Eeyore's  self-important  shouting  as  he  instructed  his  younger  brother  and  sister  to  gather  small  pieces  of  wood  while  he  took  charge  of  the  heavier  ones.  I  lay  there,  puzzling  over  how  I  was  going  to  stand  before  my  wife  and  explain  why  half  my  face  was  swollen.  Given  my  behavior  the  day  before,  I  would  have  to  start  trying  im-  mediately  torestore  my  relationship  with  my  wife  and  the  other  children.  I  sat  up  toward  the  light  and  said  the  following,  as  if  in  encouragement  of  myself  and  others,  aware  of  my  wife  flinching  as  she  noticed  the  swelling  in  my  face:  &quot;Eeyore  doesn't  dream,  but  he  does  know  that  people  have  dreams.  As  he  grows  older,  if  the  day  finally  comes  when  he  dreams,  I  think  he'll  be  able  to  tell  it  was  a  dream.  Learning  that  made  last  night  worth  it.&quot;  I  had  feared  that  Eeyore's  first  dream  would  be  a  painful  oneand  that  I  might  no  longer  be  alive  and  would  therefore  be  unable  to  stand  by  his  side  to  help  him.  But  now  I  knew  that,  if  it  happened,  Eeyore  would  be  able  to  say,  turning  to  himself  as  dreamer,  &quot;It's  all  right.  It's  all  right.  It's  just  a  dream.&quot;  Why  should  I  torment  myself?  Eeyore  would  be  able  to  turn  to  himself  and  continue,  &quot;You're  just  dreaming!  There's  nothing  at  all  to  be  afraid  of.  It's  just  a  dream.&quot;  *  (Translated,  from  the  Japanese,  by  John  Nathan.)  "