This morning  I  noticed  there  was  a  room  missing.  I  had  woken  as  usual  to  the  noises  of  singing  drills  and  chirpy  workmen,  an  aviary  of  tradesmen  building  nests  out  of  the  hollow  of  a  derelict  house.  I  went  out  into  the  waking  streets  to  buzz  a  newspaper  off  a  sleep-deprived  vender.  Like  the  rest  of  the  poor-in-  sleep  of  the  coming  twenty-first  cen-  tury,  he  was  a  money  junkie,  trading  shut-eye  for  a  tight  fist.  Nobody  can  af-  ford  to  sleep  anymore.  Do  you  realize  how  much  it  costs?  I  am  single.  I  have  a  girlfriend.  I  have  a  nice  flat  with  a  kitchen,  a  sitting  room,  and  a  bedroom,  and  in  the  bed-  room,  with  the  curtains  drawn,  or  some-  times  open,  sometimes  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  sometimes  for  pleasurable  hours  all  morning,  naked,  warm,  I  sleep.  How  did  it  start?  When  I  was  born,  Pharaoh-domed  and  blue.  Pointed  and  Picasso'd.  A  Cubist  baby  of  lines  and  planes.  Not  a  breathing  human  yet.  Still  corded  to  God's  architecture.  Small  gasps  and  liq-  uid  eyes.  I  slept.  When  I  was  a  wiggler,  a  crawler,  a  tod-  dler,  an  upright,  a  walker,  a  runner,  ahigh-  flier,  spaced  out,  I  slept.  It  came  naturally  to  me.  I  lay  down,  closed  my  eyes.  I  slept.  Everyone  I  knew  slept,  too.  Even  my  parents.  And  then  ...  OST  of  the  jobs  advertised  these  days  insist  on  a  non-sleeper.  Sleeping  is  dirty,  unhygienic,  waste-  ful,  and  disrespectful  to  others.  All  pub-  lic  spaces  are  designated  &quot;Non-Sleep-  ing,&quot;  and  even  a  quick  nap  on  a  park  bench  carries  a  fifty-pound  fine.  You  can  still  sleepin  your  own  home,  but  all  There  just  aren't  enough  hours  in  the  day.     BY  JEANETTE  WINTERSON  new  beds  are  required  by  law  to  have  a  personal  alarm  clock  built  into  the  mat-  tress.  If  you  get  caught  on  a  bed  check  with  a  dead  alarm,  that's  another  fifty-  pound  fine.  Three  fines  and  you  are  dis-  qualified  from  sleeping  for  a  year.  I  don't  have  a  new  bed.  When  I  in-  vited  my  last  girlfriend  to  my  flat  for  the  first  time,  she  had  never  seen  a  bed  like  mine.  &quot;Wow.  Is  that  an  antique?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  like  antiques?&quot;  &quot;Well,  they're  so  .  .  .  old.&quot;  &quot;This  is  my  bed.  My  one  and  only.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  use  it  for?&quot;  &quot;I  sleep  in  it.&quot;  &quot;On  special  occasions?&quot;  &quot;Every  night.  Nine  or  ten  hours  every  night.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  every  week.&quot;  I  took  her  in  my  arms.  I  asked  her  to  sleep  with  me.  &quot;You  mean  lie  awake  with  you?  Everybody  wants  to  know  if  we're  lying  awake  together.&quot;  &quot;Sleeping  together.&quot;  She  was  worried.  &quot;Nine  or  ten  hours  anight?&quot;  I  nodded,  addicted,  dumb,  sleep-  hooked,  sleepy.  She  left.  I  advertised  in  anunderground  maga-  zine  called  Snooze.  &quot;Girlfriend  wanted.  Must  have  own  bed.&quot;  AM  not  rich  but  my  sister  is.  She  works  for  a  German  giant  called  Fafner  UK.  Their  business  is  other  peo-  ple's  money  and  the  more  they  have  the  more  they  want.  My  sister  was  one  of  the  first  to  give  up  sleep  for  the  sake  of  her  career.  She  works  a  twenty-hour  day  in  two  time  zones.  She  worries  about  me.  &quot;Hello.  It's  your  sister.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  middle  of  the  night.&quot;  &quot;I  was  worried  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry  about  me.&quot;  &quot;I  saw  your  small  ad  in  Snooze.&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  know  it  was  me?&quot;  &quot;You  put  your  name,  address,  and  phone  number.&quot;  She  told  me  to  see  a  doctor  and  get  some  waking  pills.  She  offered  me  a  job.  I  asked  her  why  she  had  been  reading  Snooze.  She  didn't  likethat.  She  knows  it's  pornography.  If  you  can  find  it  in  a  shop  it's  always  the  top  shelf,  and  by  top  shelf  I  mean  you  have  to  ask  the  assis-  tant  for  a  ladder.  It  takes  a  particular  kind  of  somnolent  courage  to  clatter  on  the  aluminum  steps  through  the  eager  beavers  in  the  Hobbies  section  and  clam-  ber  up  past  Adult  Entertainment,  S  &amp;  M,  Snuff,  Necro,  until  you  can  fumble  for  the  plain  brown  wrapper  of  Snooze.  I  have  asked  the  assistant  to  keep  it  under  the  counter  for  me,  the  way  she  does  with  the  incest  magazine,  Mother-  fucker.  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;I  can't  do  that  with  Snooze.  Not  Snooze.  In  any  case,  from  next  month  you'll  have  to  sign  for  it.&quot;  So  there  I  was,  with  a  sleep  maga-  zine  on  prescription.  Yes,  prescription.  Doctor's  orders,  dear  Sister.  It's  my  new  job,  didn't  I  tell  you  about  that?  I  am  a  dreamer.  I  should  write  that  with  a  capital,  it  has  a  title,  it  exists.  Someone  has  to  do  it.  I  don't  know  how  many  of  us  there  are.  My  ILD.  card  says  &quot;civil  servant&quot;  and  I  try  to  dream  as  politely  as  possible.  Dreaming  is  my  job  and  my  dreams  are  tele-electronically  recorded  and  transmitted  at  Dream-  points  around  the  city.  When  the  no-sleep  life  style  was  pioneered,  it  was  soon  discovered  that  people  functioned  better  if  they  had  a  dream-boost.  A  pad  on  the  heart  and  the  wrist  can  electronically  lull  the  body  into  a  sleep  state  in  seconds,  but  it  can't  dream.  I  can,  and  if  you'd  like  to  try  me,  my  last  night's  dream  will  be  on  the  headset  in  about  an  hour.  &quot;You're  working  as  a  Dreamer?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  and  you're  ringing  me  in  the  middleof  the  night.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I'm  so  sorry.  I  had  no  idea  you  were  official.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  send  you  a  free  disk?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'd  love  that.  Mark  it  private,  will  you?&quot;  FILIP  PAGOWSKI     She  put  down  the  phone.  Tough  girls  don't  dream.  HIS  morning,  I  decided  to  go  to  the  park  and  feed  the  rubber  ducks.  The  real  ducks  died,  because  so  many  people  were  feeding  them  in  the  new  twenty-four-hour  working  day  that  not  a  drake  nor  a  duck  had  a  moment  to  it-  self.  Some  sank  under  the  weight  of  soggy  bread,  others  exploded.  The  sun  shone.  Maddeningly,  it  wouldn't  shine  during  the  night,  but  I'm  told  they're  working  on  it.  I  walked  quickly,  purposefully,  through  the  dead-eyed  crowds  until  I  got  clear  of  the  feeding  areas  and  onto  a  crisp  grass  knoll.  No  one  ever  comes  up  here,  it's  too  aimless,  no  swings,  no  café,  not  even  a  bench.  I  flung  myself  down  and  watched  the  clouds  bumping  each  other,  the  break  and  mend  of  a  morning  sky.  My  body  was  relaxed  and  the  ordered  chords  of  my  mind  began  to  separate  into  component  notes,  toreplay  them-  selves  without  effort,  without  purpose,  trailing  into  ...  sleep.  I  dreamed  I  was  a  single  moment  in  a  single  day.  A  note  struck  and  van-  ished.  A  sounding.  A  reckoning.  Gone.  I  was  awoken  rudely.  Far  too  rudely.  The  keeper  prodded  me  with  asharp  stick  as  though  I  were  abeast  in  a  zoo.  I  opened  my  eyes  and  the  clouds  were  gone.  A  gray  face,  a  dirty  uniform,  and  the  clenched  fist  scrawling  a  ticket.  Do  you  remember  when  park  keep-  ers  used  to  spear  litter  and  chat  to  mothers  at  the  sandpit?  No  more.  These  scabrous  patrols  have  stun  ba-  tons  and  two-way  radios.  They  clean  up  homosexuals  and  sleepers  and  preferto  be  known  by  their  official  tag  of  Public  Space  Enforcement  Officers.  Unfortunately,  this  one  had  fallen  over.  It  happened  suddenly.  He  was  punching  out  his  fine  code  when  he  top-  pled  forward,  face  down  into  the  grass.  I  turned  him  over  and  felt  his  pulse.  Now  I  would  be  charged  with  murder.  He  was  not  dead.  He  was  snoring.  Carefully,  I  put  his  hat  over  his  eyes  and  made  a  little  palisade  around  him  out  of  the  plastic  spokes  and  fluttery  tape  the  keepers  carry  to  cordon  off  areas  of  maximum  security,  like  the  rubber-duck  pond.  As  I  went  down  the  knoll  I  looked  back.  Therewas  a  faint  blue  gas  set-  tling  at  his  head.  I'd  heard  of  this  but    I'd  never  seen  it.  It's  what  happens  when  the  dreams  return.  I  GO  to  the  sleep  bar  at  the  week-  ends.  It's  called  Morpheus's  Cave.  It's  dark,  silent,  racked  with  beds  and  open  arms.  I  was  hoping  to  find  a  girlfriend  there,  groping  round  with  a  flashlight,  looking  for  a  nice  face.  The  trouble  is,it's  difficult  to  know  how  we'd  get  on  when  she  is  awake.  Last  night  I  tried  the  Sleeping  Beauty.  It  caters  to  a  younger  crowd,  those  who  just  want  to  drop  off  for  an  hour  if  they're  passing.  Maybe  I'll  find  some-  one  to  talk  to.  Talking  and  dreaming.  Dreaming  and  talking.  All  these  clocks  and  no  time.  In  my  city  of  dreams  the  roads  lead  nowhere;  that  is,  they  lead  off  the  edge  of  the  world  into  infinite  space.  Under  my  feet  the  road  quickens,  like  one  of  those  moving  tracks  at  the  airports.  It's  the  road  itself  that  carries  me  forward,  until  there  is  nothing  under  my  feet  but  air.  Where  to  now,  without  tarmac  and  map?  What  direction  do  I  take  now  that  all  directions  can  be  taken?  These  dreams  of  mine  are  carefully  screened  for  disruptive  elements.  At  the  Sleeping  Beauty  I  ordered  a  shot  of  brandy  with  a  jug  of  hotmilk  in  it  and  went  to  lie  down  in  the  Pillow  Room.  The  Pillow  Room  is  where  most  of  the  girls  go.  It's  dark,  soft,  and  there's  a  Dream  Screen  on  the  wall.  When  I  walked  in  they  were  playing  one  of  my  dreams.  &quot;That  isn't  how  it  ends,&quot;  I  said,  be-  fore  I  could  stop  myself.  &quot;It  was  a  nightmare.  I  wasn't  running  happily  over  the  just  planted  earth.&quot;  A  couple  of  girls  got  up  and  went  off  to  the  ZZZ  Bar.  I  was  left  alone  mm  bP.  peso  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  15,  1998  with  a  wide-awake  redhead  squirrelling  out  the  contents  of  her  handbag.  She  offered  me  a  sleeping  pill.  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;It's  not  sleep  I  need,&quot;  I  said.  She  looked  disappointed  and  lay  back  on  the  pillows  watching  the  screen.  The  dream  was  over,  we  were  in  an  advertising  break,  something  about  the  quality  of  life  on  a  new  breakfast  cereal  called  Go!  I  rolled  over  beside  her  and  kissed  her  surprised  mouth.  Horizontal  con-  tact  is  strictly  forbidden  in  play-at-it  bars  like  the  Sleeping  Beauty.  Later,  walking  home  arm  in  arm,  we  talked  about  opening  a  fish  restaurant  by  the  sea.  Holiday  resorts  are  Sleep-  Designated  Areas.  The  difficulty  is  that  everyone  is  too  exhausted  to  eat.  Most  go  intravenous  for  a  fortnight  in  August.  &quot;I'm  lucky,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  a  Dreamer.&quot;  I  don't  know  if  she  understood.  Then  came  the  tough  question.  The  question  I  had  been  afraid  to  ask.  &quot;Will  you  sleep  with  me?&quot;  Under  the  night  rug,  the  star  rug,  the  man  in  the  moon  watching  over  us,  Dog  Star  at  his  heels,  we  lay.  The  planets  were  bodies  in  the  solar  system  and  so  were  we.  You  and  I  in  elliptical  orbs  circling  life.  It  was  life  we  wanted,  but  we  dared  not  come  too  close  for  fear  that  life,  in  its  intensity,  might  burn  us  up.  We  called  it  life  force,  and  it  was,  force  enough  to  push  the  shoot  through  clay.  Force  enough  to  impel  the  baby  out  of  nothing  into  light.  When  I  held  you  in  that  night-  soaked  bed  it  was  courage  for  the  day  I  sought.  Courage  that  when  the  light  came  I  would  turn  towards  it.  It  couldn't  be  simpler.  It  couldn't  be  harder.  In  that  little  night-covered  world  with  you,  I  nn    hoped  to  find  what  I  long  for:  a  clue,  a  map,  a  bird  flying  south.  And  when  the  light  came  we  would  get  dressed  together  and  go.  AVD  so  it  was  morning  and  I  went  to  buy  the  paper.  I  came  back  to  my  flat  and  went  into  the  kitchen  to  make  coffee.  I  took  a  cup  to  the  bed-  room  and  that  was  when  I  discovered  that  the  bedroom  was  no  longer  there.  I  called  your  name  and  there  was  no  answer.  I  stared  at  the  wall,  thewall  where  the  door  had  been,  where  the  bedroom  had  been.  There  was  a  noise  behind  me.  It  was  my  landlord.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Supervising  the  conversion,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Didn't  you  get  my  letter?&quot;  He  was  holding  it  in  his  hand.  I  read  it.  It  informed  me  that  my  bedroom  was  to  be  made  into  a  separate  flat.  My  bed-  room  was  surplus  to  requirements.  It  was  quaint,  out  of  date,  something  like  a  vegetable  allotment  in  the  age  of  the  supermarket.  It  was  a  luxury.  I  couldn't  afford  it.  &quot;But  this  is  a  one-bedroom  apartment.&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  kitchen  and  a  sitting  room.  What  more  do  you  want?&quot;  &quot;I  want  a  bedroom.&quot;  He  shook  his  head,  in  regret,  in  dis-  belief,  offended.  I  followed  him  outside  to  where  a  couple  of  men  were  fitting  a  new  front  door  into  what  had  been  my  wardrobe  space.  There  was  a  large  box  on  the  pavement,  marked  &quot;Clothes.&quot;  &quot;Where's  my  bed?&quot;  &quot;Don't  need  a  bed  if  you  ain't  got  a  bedroom,&quot;  said  one  of  the  workmen  logically.  &quot;Where  is  it,  and  where  is  what  was  in  it?&quot;  There  was  a  leer,  or  a  sneer,  or  a  jeer.  They  shrugged.  &quot;Ask  in  the  Macbeth,&quot;  they  said,  point-  ing  to  the  pub  at  the  end  of  the  road.  The  Macbeth  is  a  twenty-four-hour  swill  bar,  a  thug  trough,  a  beer  urinal.  I  ran  down  there,  and  as  I  crashed  through  the  doors  I  saw  my  bed,  trussed,  trophied,  pissed  on,  stabbed,  empty.  &quot;Where  is  she?&quot;  Sometimes  I  think  I'll  find  her,  as  though  I  had  never  losther.  Sometimes  at  the  draw  and  ebb  of  the  sea  on  a  clear  night,  I  see  her  walking  just  in  front  of  me  and  I  swear  there  are  foot-  prints.  Shewas  a  clue  I  tried  to  follow,  but  I  live  in  a  world  that  has  lost  the  plot.  Sleep  now  and  hope  to  dream.  