The  boyon  the  bike  flew  by  the  Chink's  house,  and  the  squatty-  body's  house,  and  the  house  where  the  dead  guy  had  rotted  for  five  days,  remembering  that  the  Chink  had  once  called  him  nasty,  and  the  squatty-body  had  once  called  the  cops  when  he'd  hit  her  cat  with  a  lug  nut  on  a  string,  and  the  chick  in  the  dead  guy's  house  had  once  asked  if  he,  Cody,  ever  brushed  his  teeth.  Someday  when  he'd  completed  the  invention  of  his  special  miniaturizing  ray  he  would  shrink  their  houses  and  flush  them  down  the  shitter  while  in  tiny  voices  all  three  begged  for  some  sophisticated  mercy,  but  he  would  only  say,  Sophisticated?  When  were  you  ever  sophisticated  to  me?  And  from  the  toilet  bowl  they  would  say,  Well  yes,  you're  right,  we  were  pretty  mean,  flush  us  down,  we  deserve  it;  but  no,  at  the  last  minute  he  would  pluck  them  out  and  place  them  in  his  lunchbox  so  he  could  send  them  on  secret  missions  such  as  putting  hideousboogers  of  assassina-  tion  in  Lester  Finn's  thermos  if  Lester  Finn  ever  again  asked  him  in  Civics  why  his  rear  smelled  like  hot  cotton  with  addi-  tional  crap  cling-ons.  It  was  a  beautiful,  sunny  day  and  the  aerobics  class  at  the  Rec  had  let  out  and  cars  were  streaming  out  of  the  parking  lot  with  sun  glinting  off  their  hoods,  and  he  rode  along  on  the  sidewalk,  racing  the  cars  as  they  passed.  Here  was  the  low-hanging  willow  whereyou  had  to  duck  down,  here  was  the  place  with  the  tilty  sidewalk  square  that  served  as  a  ramp  when  you  jerked  hard  on  the  handlebars,  which  he  did,  and  the  crowd  went  wild,  and  the  announcers  in  the  booth  above  the  willow  shook  their  heads  and  said,  Wow,  he  takes  that  jump  like  there's  no  tomorrow  while  them  other  racers  fret  about  it  like  tiny  crying  babies!  Were  the  Dalmeyers  home?     Cody's  last  stand.     BY  GEORGE  SAUNDERS  Their  gray  car  was  still  in  the  driveway.  He  would  need  to  make  another  lap.  Yesterday  he  had  picked  up  a  bright-  red  goalie  pad  and  all  three  Dalmeyers  had  screamed  at  him,  Not  that  pad  Cody  you  dick,  we  never  use  those  pads  in  the  driveway  because  they  get  scuffed,  you  rectum,  those  are  only  for  ice,  were  you  born  a  rectal  shitbrain  or  did  you  take  special  rectal  shitbrain  lessons,  in  rectal  shitbrain  lessons  did  they  teach  you  how  to  ruin  everybody's  things?  Well  yes,  he  had  ruined  a  few  Dal-  meyer  things  in  his  life,  he  had  yes  pounded  a  railroad  spike  in  a  good  new  volleyball,  he  had  yes  secretly  scraped  a  ski  with  a  nail,  he  had  yes  given  the  Dalmeyer  dog  Rudy  a  cut  on  its  leg  with  a  shovel,  but  that  had  been  an  accident,  he'd  thrown  the  shovel  at  a  rosebush  and  stupid  Rudy  had  walked  in  front  of  it.  And  the  Dalmeyers  had  snatched  away  the  goalie  pad  and  paraded  around  the  driveway  making  the  nosehole  sound,  and  when  he  tried  to  laugh  to  show  he  was  a  good  sport  he  made  the  nosehole  sound  for  real,  and  they  totally  cracked  up,  and  Zane  Dalmeyer  said  why  didn't  he  take  his  trademark  nosehole  sound  on  Broad-  way  so  thousands  could  crap  their  pants  laughing?  And  Eric  Dalmeyer  said  hey  if  only  he  had  like  fifty  different-sized  noseholes  that  each  made  a  different  sound  then  he  could  play  songs.  And  they  laughed  so  hard  at  the  idea  of  him  playing  songs  on  [REDACTED]  on  his  fifty  different-  sized  noseholes  that  they  fell  to  the  driveway  thrashing  their  idiotic  Dalmeyer  limbs,  even  Ginnie,  the  baby  Dalmeyer,  andha  ha  ha  that  had  been  a  laugh,  that  had  been  so  funny  he  had  almost  gone  around  one  two  three  four  and  smashed  their  cranial  cavities  with  his  off-brand  gym  shoes,  which  were  another  puzzling  dilemmoid,  because  why  did  he  have  Arroes  when  every  single  Dalmeyer,  even  Ginnie,  had  the  Nikes  with  the  lights  in  the  heel  that  lit  up?  Fewer  cars  were  coming  by  now  from  the  Rec;  the  ones  that  did  were  going  faster,  and  he  no  longer  tried  to  race  them.  Oh,  it  would  be  revenge,  sweet  re-  venge,  when  he  stuck  the  lozenge  stolen  from  wood  shop  up  the  Dalmeyers'  water  hose,  and  the  next  time  they  turned  the  hose  on  it  exploded,  and  all  the  Dalmey-  ers,  even  Dad  Dalmeyer,  stood  around  in  their  nice  tan  pants  puzzling  over  it  like  them  guys  on  &quot;Nova.&quot;  And  the  Dalmeyers  were  so  stupid  they  would  conclude  that  it  had  been  a  miracle,  and  would  call  some  guys  from  a  science  lab  to  confirm  the  miracle,  and  one  of  the  lab  guys  would  flip  the  wooden  lozenge  into  the  air  and  say  to  Dad  Dalmeyer,  You  know  what,  a  very  clever  Einstein  lives  in  your  neigh-  borhood  and  I  suggest  that  in  the  future  you  lock  this  hose  up,  because  in  all  prob-  ability  this  guy  cannot  be  stopped.  And  he,  Cody,  would  give  the  lab  guy  a  wink  and  later,  when  they  were  walking  away,  the  lab  guy  would  say,  Look,  why  not  come  live  with  us  in  the  experimental  space  above  our  lab  and  help  us  discover  some  amazing  compounds  with  the  same  science  brain  that  thought  up  this  brilliant  lozenge,  because,  frankly,  when  we  lab  guys  were  your  age,  no  way,  this  lozenge  concept  was  totally  beyond  us,  we  were  just  playing  with  baby  toys  and  doing  baby  math,  but  you,  you're  really  some-  thing  scientifically  special.  And  when  the  Dalmeyers  came  for  a  lab  tour  with  a  school  group  they  would  approach  him  with  their  big  confident  underwater  watches  and  say  wow  oh  boy  had  they  ever  missed  the  boat  in  terms  of  him,  sorry,  they  were  so  very  sorry,  what  was  this  beaker  for,  how  did  this  burner  work,  was  it  really  true  that  he  had  built  a  whole  entire  T.  Rex  from  scratch  and  energized  it  by  taming  the  miraculous  power  of  cosmic  thunder?  And  down  in  the  basement  the  7.  Rex  would  rear  up  its  ugly  head  and  want  to  have  a  Dal-  meyer  snack,  but  using  his  special  system  of  codes,  pounding  on  a  heat  pipe  a  dif-  ferent  number  of  times  for  each  alphabet  z  letter,  he  would  tell  the  7.  Rex,  No  no  no,  &amp;  don't  eat  a  single  Dalmeyer,  although  why   not  lift  Eric  Dalmeyer  up  just  for  the  fun  of  it  on  the  tip  of  your  tremendous  green  snout  and  give  him  a  lesson  in  what  kind  of  power  those  crushing  jaws  would  have  if  he,  Cody,  pounded  out  on  the  heat  pipe  Pedalling  wildly  now,  he  passed  into  the  strange  and  dangerous  zone  of  three  consecutive  MonteVistas,  and  inside  of  each  lived  an  old  wop  in  a  dago  tee,  and  sometimes  in  the  creepy  trees  there  were  menacing  gorillas  he  took  potshots  at  from  bikeback,  butnot  today,  he  was  too  busywith  revenge  to  think  about  mon-  keys,  and  then  he  was  out,  into  the  light,  coasting  into  a  happier  zone  of  forthright  and  elephantine  BuenoVerdes  that  sat  very  honestly  with  the  big  open  eyes  that  were  their  second-story  windows,  and  in  his  mind  as  he  passed  he  said  hello  HELLO  to  the  two  elephants  and  they  in  turn  said  to  him  in  kind  Dumbo  voices  hey  Cody  HEy  Copy.  HE  block  was  shaped  something  like  South  [REDACTED]  and  as  he  took  the  tight  turn  that  was  Cape  Horn  he  looked  across  The  Field  to  his  small  yellow  house,  which  was  neither  MonteVista  nor  Bueno-  Verde,  but  predated  the  subdivision  and  smelled  like  cat  pee  and  hamburger  blood  and  had  recently  been  christened  by  Ma's  boyfriend  Daryl,  that  dick,  The  House  of  FIRPO,  FIRPO  being  the  word  Daryl  used  to  describe  anything  he,  Cody,  did  that  was  bad  or  dorky.  Sometimes  Mom  and  Daryl  tried  to  pretend  FIRPO  was  a  lovey-  dovey  term  by  tousling  his  hair  when  they  said  it  but  other  times  theygave  him  a  poke  or  pinch  and  sometimes  when  they  thought  he  couldn't  hear  they  whispered  very  darkly  and  meanly  to  one  another  FIRP  attack  in  progress  and  he  would  go  to  his  room  and  make  the  nosehole  sound  in  his  closet,  after  which  they  would  come  in  and  fine  him  a  quarter  for  each  nose-  hole  sound  they  thought  they  had  heard  him  make,  which  was  often  many,  many  more  than  he  had  actually  really  made.  Sometimes  at  night  in  his  room  Mom  babied  him  by  stroking  his  big  wide  head  and  saying  he  didn't  have  to  pay  all  the  quarters  he  owed  for  making  the  nosehole  sound,  but  other  times  she  said  if  he  didn't  knock  it  off  and  lose  a  few  pounds  how  was  he  ever  going  to  get  a  date  in  junior  high,  because  who  wanted  to  date  a  big  chubby  nosehole  snorter,  and  then  he  couldn't  help  it,  it  made  him  nervous  to  think  of  junior  high,  and  he  made  the  nosehole  sound  and  she  said,  Very  funny  I  hope  you're  amusing  your  own  self  be-  cause  you're  not  amusing  my  ass  one  bit.  The  Dalmeyer  house  now  came  into  sight.  The  Dalmeyer  car  was  gone.  It  was  Go  Time.  The  decisive  butt-kicking  he  was  about  to  give  the  Dalmeyer  hose  would  con-  stitute  the  end  of  FIRPO  in  the  world,  and  all,  including  Ma,  would  have  to  bow  down  before  him,  saying,  Wow  wow  wow,  do  we  ever  stand  corrected  in  terms  of  you,  how  could  someone  FIRPO  hatch  and  execute  such  a  daring  manly  plan?  The  crowd  was  on  its  feet  now,  screaming  his  name,  and  he  passed  the  Chink's  house  again,  here  was  the  drive-  way  down  which  he  must  turn  to  cross  the  street  to  the  Dalmeyers',  but  then  oh  crap  he  was  going  too  fast  and  missed  it,  and  the  announcers  in  the  booth  above  the  willow  gasped  in  pleasure  athis  sud-  den  decisive  decision  to  swerve  across  the  newly  sodded  lawn  of  the  squatty-body's  house.  His  bike  made  a  trough  in  the  sod  and  went  HUMPF  over  the  curb,  and  as  the  white  car  struck  him  the  boy  and  thebike  flew  together  in  a  high  comic  are  across  the  street  and  impacted  the  oak  on  the  opposite  side  with  such  violence  that  the  bike  wrapped  around  the  tree  and  the  boy  flew  back  into  the  street.  Arghh  arghh  Daryl  will  be  pissed  and  say  Cody  why  are  you  bleeding  like  a  stuck  pig  you  little  shit.  There  was  some-  thing  red  wrong  with  his  Arroes.  At  Pay-  less  when  they  bought  the  Arroes  Mom  said,  If  you  squirm  once  more  you're  gonna  be  facedown  on  this  carpet  with  my  hand  whacking  your  big  fat  ass.  Daryl  will  say  I  buy  you  a  good  bike  and  what  doyou  do,  you  ruin  it.  Ma  will  come  up  with  a  dish  towel  and  start  swiping  at  the  blood  and  Daryl  will  say  don't  ruin  that  dish  towel,  he  made  his  bed  let  him  sleep  in  it,  I'll  hose  him  off  in  the  yard,  a  little  shivering  won't  kill  him,  he  did  the  crime  let  him  do  the  time.  Or  Ma  might  throw  a  fit  like  the  night  he  slipped  and  fell  in  the  school  play,  and  Ms.  Phillips  said,  Tell  your  mother,  Cody,  how  you  came  to  slip  and  fall  during  the  school  play  so  that  everyone  in  the  auditorium  was  looking  at  you  instead  of  Julia  who  was  at  that  time  speaking  her  most  important  line.  And  Mom  said,  Cody  are  you  deaf?  And  Ms.  Phillips  said,  He  slipped  because  when  I  told  him  stay  out  of  that  mopped  spot  did  he  do  it?  No,  he  did  not,  he  walked  right  through  it  on  purpose  and  then  down  he  went.  7T  Which  is  exactly  what  he  does  at  home,  Mom  said.  Sometimes  I  think  he's  wired  wrong.  And  Ms.  Phillips  said,  Well,  today,  Cody,  you  learned  a  valuable  lesson  which  is  if  someone  tells  you  don't  do  something,  don't  do  it,  because  maybe  that  someone  knows  something  you  don't  from  having  lived  a  longer  time  than  you.  And  Daryl  said,  Or  maybe  he  liked  fall-  ing  on  his  butt  in  front  of  all  his  friends.  Now  a  white-haired  stickman  with  no  shirt  was  bending  over  him,  touch  touch  touching  him  all  over,  like  looking  to  see  if  he  was  wearing  a  bulletproof  vest,  doing  some  very  nervous  mouthbreathing,  with  a  silver  cross  hanging  down,  and  around  his  nipples  were  sprigs  of  white  hair.  Oh  boy,  oh  God,  said  the  stickman.  Say  something,  pal,  can  you  talk?  And  he  tried  to  talk  but  nothing  came  and  tried  to  move  but  nothing  moved.  Oh  God,  said  the  stickman,  don't  go,  pal,  please  say  something,  stay  here  with  me  now,  we'll  get  through  this.  What  crazy  teeth.  What  a  stickman.  The  stickman's  hands  flipped  around  like  nervous  old-lady  hands  in  movies  where  the  river  is  rising  and  the  men  are  away.  What  a  Holy  Roller.  What  a  FIRPO.  A  Holy  Roller  FIRPO  stickman  with  hairy  nips  and  plus  his  breath  smelled  like  coffee.  Listen,  God  loves  you,  said  the  stick-  man.  You'regoing,  O.K.,  I  see  you're  go-  ing,  but  look,  please  don't  go  without  knowing  you  are  beautiful  and  loved.  O.K.?  Do  you  hear  me?  You  are  good,  do  you  know  that?  God  loves  you.  God  loves  you.  He  sent  His  son  to  diefor  you.  Oh  the  freaking  FIRPO,  why  couldn't  he  just  shut  up?  If  the  stickman  thought  he,  Cody,  was  good  he  must  be  FIRPO  be-  cause  he,  Cody,  wasn't  good,  he  was  FIRPO,  Mom  had  said  so  and  Daryl  had  said  so  and  even  Mr.  Dean  in  Science  had  told  him  to  stop  lying  the  time  he  tried  to  tell  about  seeing  the  falling  star.  The  announcers  in  the  booth  above  the  willow  began  weeping  as  he  sat  on  Mom's  lap  and  said  he  was  very  sorry  for  having  been  such  a  FIRPOson  and  Mom  said,  Oh  thank  you,  thank  you,  Cody,  for  fi-  nally  admitting  it,  that  makes  it  nice,  and  her  smile  was  so  sweet  he  closed  his  eyes  and  felt  a  certain  urge  to  sort  of  shake  things  out  and  oh  Christ  dance.  You  are  beautiful,  beautiful,  the  stick-  man  kept  saying,  long  after  the  boy  had  stopped  thrashing,  God  loves  you,  you  are  beautiful  in  His  sight. 