ON  my  twenty-fifth  birthday  I  O  found  a  woman.  I  stopped  at  a  deserted  parking  lot  just  offthe  Autobahn  to  have  a  pee,  and  saw  her  when  I  returned  from  the  bushes.  She  sat  slumped  ina  wheel-  chair,  wrapped-despite  the  heat-in  a  heavy,  dark  coat,  with  a  dark-red  vel-  vet  hat  on  her  head.  I  could  not  see  her  face.  A  fly  was  creeping  over  her  hand.  Cars  were  speeding  past  us.  The  air  smelled  of  gasoline  and  rotten  bananas.  No  one  else  for  miles  around.  I  have  never  seen  a  dead  person  and  don't  want  to.  I  am  afraid  of  them,  of  their  smell.  Two  years  ago  I  was  in  the  pathology  department  of  the  univer-  sity  hospital,  in  a  room  where  they  dis-  sect  bodies.  There  wasn't  even  a  corpse  present:  we  were  filming  a  scene  for  a  TV  mystery.  I  was  the  production  manager,  and  our  corpse  was  a  talkative  actor.  Red  rubber  gloves,  hacksaws  to  cut  open  skulls,  scales  for  organs,  the  basin  for  blood,  the  stainless  steel-all  that  was  bad  enough,  but  what  really  upset  me  was  the  smell.  The  smell  be-  neath  the  formalin.  Nothing  could  mask  it.  The  different  perfumes  of  the  women  on  our  team  and  the  pungent  smoke  from  the  director's  cigarillo  only  made  it  more  noticeable.  Like  poison  gas,  it  penetrated  my  clothes,  my  skin,  my  heart.  It  shrank  the  life  that  lay  be-  fore  me  to  a  tiny  dot  like  fly  shit  on  a  windowpane.  For  lunch  we  had  Wiener  schnitzel  and  potato  salad  on  paper  plates,  served  directly  in  front  of  the  dissection-room  door.  I  was  astonished  at  how  every-  one  tucked  in,  even  the  makeup  artist,  who  only  five  minutes  before  had  studied  the  knotted  neck  of  a  re-  cently  strangled  man  in  order  to  re-  produce  true-to-life  strangulation  effects  on  our  actor.  No  one  seemed  to  smell  what  I  smelled.  In  the  evening,  when  I  came  home,  I  pressed  myself  tightly  against  my  friend,  Chris,  but,  A  roadside  pickup.     BY  DORIS  DORRIE  for  some  reason,  even  he  had  that  smell  as  well.  Then,  during  the  night,  I  was  awakened  by  the  smell;  my  own  flesh  seemed  to  stink  of  death  and  putrefaction.  HE  woman  lifted  her  hand  briefly  and  waved  away  the  fly.  That  re-  ally  did  not  simplify  the  situation.  If  she  was  alive,  what  was  she  doing  here?  I  stepped  toward  her.  Her  eyes  were  closed,  and  she  seemed  to  be  asleep.  I  heard  her  snoring  faintly.  I  touched  her  hand.  It  was  ice-cold.  I  straight-  ened,  hoping  to  see  another  car,  a  fam-  ily  with  a  resolute  mother  and  a  bu-  reaucrat  father;  they  would  know  what  to  do  with  old  women  found  in  Auto-  bahn  parking  lots.  I  was  too  young  to  deal  with  old  women,  much  too  young.  After  all,  it  was  my  birthday.  I  was  on  my  way  to  a  party  that  Chris  was  giving  me  in  one  of  his  father's  fields.  He  had  insisted  on  the  party;  I  would  have  liked  best  to  stay  alone  in  my  small  apartment.  I  ran  to  my  car  and  drove  off.  I  didn't  look  at  the  old  woman  as  I  passed  her.  The  Autobahn  appeared  to  me  like  a  glittering  snake,  a  slithering  long  line  of  cars.  Their  drivers  looked  tired  and  disillusioned.  They  seemed  to  have  been  driving  for  ages.  WENTY-FIVE  years  ago,  this  day  was  a  Saturday.  It  was  my  mother  on  my  new  portable  phone.  It  had  been  nearly  ninety-five  degrees  in  the  shade.  Speak  up,  Mama.  I  can't  hear  you.  Ah,  she  whispered,  I'm  already  speaking  so  loud.  Silence.  Vera,  are  you  still  there?  Yes.  When  we  took  that  taxi  to  the  hos-  pital  to  have  you,  my  whole  body  stuck  to  the  leather  seats.  That's  how  hot  it  was.  I  will  never  ever  forgetthat  feel-  ing.  It  will  be  hot  like  that  today.  It's  already  more  than  seventy.  I  hate  the  heat.  I've  drawn  the  curtains.  I'll  stay  indoors  all  day-yes,  that's  what  I'll  do.  I  won't  do  anything  today.  I  will  sit  in  thebig  chair  and  think  of  you.  All  day  long.  And  I  won't  cook  either.  I  was  so  happy  when  you  were  born.  When  the  nurses  brought  you,  I  could  hear  you  crying  in  the  hallway.  You  cried  louder  than  any  of  the  other  babies.  I  was  so  happy.  Silence.  Are  you  still  there,  Vera?  Are  you  with  a  man?  What's  he  doing?  Am  I  disturbing  you?  No,  Mama.  She  sighed.  It  will  get  terribly  hot  today.  My  legs  are  already  very  heavy.  Here  is  your  father.  She  handed  him  the  receiver.  My  father  always  talked  too  loud  on  the  phone.  She  whispered,  he  bellowed.  Well?  Have  you  grown  overnight?  He  has  asked  me  that  for  twenty-  five  years.  Yes,  one  metre.  That's  good.  You'll  be  the  great-  est  yet.I've  known  that  all  along.  Twenty-five,  by  golly,  girl,  a  quarter  of  a  century,  who  would  have  thought  that,  eh?  HEN  I  returned,  the  old  woman  was  there,  sitting,  exactly  as  before.  The  parking  lot  was  still  de-  serted,  as  if  a  large  warning  sign  were  posted  at  the  entrance.  I  touched  her  shoulders,  shook  her  gently.  Confused,  she  looked  up  at  me  with  small,  watery  blue  eyes  from  a  snow-white,  soft,  slightly  crooked  face.  What's  your  name?  How  did  you  get  here?  Where  do  you  live?  Who  are  you?  She  looked  at  me  with  interest,  as  if  trying  to  decipher  the  sense  of  my  words,  and  kept  silent.  When  I  turned  to  check  once  more  to  see  if  she  had  a  &lt;  4  2  =  ANDREA  VEN  companion-maybe  lying  unconscious  in  the  undergrowth-she  reached  for  my  hand  and  clasped  it.  It'll  be  all  right,  I  whispered.  It'll  be  all  right.  I  took  off  her  hat.  Her  hair  was  meticulously  done  and  covered  with  a  hairnet  that  had  small  pearls  woven  into  it.  When  I  lifted  her  from  the  wheel-  chair  she  felt  light  and  bony.  It  seemed  she  could  not  move  her  legs.  I  had  to  lift  them  separately  into  the  car.  I  buckled  her  in;  she  sat  straight,  her  red  hat  on  her  lap,  and  looked  alertly  through  the  windshield.  As  I  struggled  to  stow  the  wheelchair  in  the  trunk,  there  was  a  sud-  den  blast  of  a  song  by  U2.  The  woman  must  |  have  switched  on  the  radio.  It  occurred  to  me  that  I  might  still  be  |  able  to  hand  her  off  to  another  driver.  But  no.  Who  would  believe  that  the  woman  sitting  |  in  my  car  was  a  total  |  stranger?  I  switched  off  the  radio.  Slowly,  she  reached  out  and  switched  it  on  again.  So  she  liked  ®  U2.  I  got  into  the  car.  @  We  just  sat  there.  Bono,  theold  woman,  and  I.  My  portable  phone  rang.  It  was  my  mother  again.  My  darling,  she  said,  I  believe  I  completely  forgot  to  wish  you  a  happy  birthday.  I  wish  you  a  wonderful  life,  she  whispered,  a  rewarding  one  with  a  manwho  will  idolize  you-that's  what  I  wish  for  you-a  romantic,  ten-  der,  educated  man.  Don't  get  me  wrong,  your  father  is  a  good  man.  Are  you  lis-  tening?  Yes,  Mama.  I  can't  hear  you.  Where  is  that  loud  music  coming  from?  What  are  you  doing?  Is  it  as  hot  at  your  place  as  itis  here?  Yes,  Mama.  What  I  wanted  to  say-I  hope  I'm  not  bothering  you-was  that  you  are  only  twenty-five.  When  I  was  your  age,  I  was  already  married.  Yes,  that  is  what  I  wanted  to  tell  you.  THE  windows  were  wide  open,  but  not  a  hair  on  the  old  woman's  head  was  disturbed.  There  was  a  faint  smell  of  mothballs  and  lavender,  of  cats  and  illness  and  alcoholic  liniment.  She   wore  old-fashioned  boots,  laced  all  the  way  up.  For  the  entire  drive  her  legs  never  moved:  they  remained  exactly  where  I'd  placed  them.  Once  she  turned  her  head  like  a  lizard  and  looked  at  me  for  a  long  time.  Her  eyelids  wouldn't  blink.  She  just  stared.  Her  face  appeared  hard  and  rigid  on  one  side  and  soft  and  unmoving  on  the  other.  The  eye  on  the  rigid  side  watered.  &quot;Only  with  You&quot;  was  on  the  radio  now.  This  is  a  program  of  listeners'  love  letters,  accompanied  by  the  appropriate  tunes.  &quot;Jens  from  Wuppertal  writes  to  143  his  Gabi.&quot;  The  announcer  had  a  velvet  voice.  &quot;My  beloved  Bunny.  Without  you  the  world  is  pale  and  empty.  What  have  I  done  wrong?  Without  you  I  am  not  myself.  Please,  please,  give  me  another  chance.  Your  Jens.&quot;  Jens  had  requested  &quot;When  a  Man  Loves  a  Woman.&quot;  I  couldn't  help  it.  I  startedsinging.  Baby,  baby,  please  don't  let  me  go.  I  looked  at  theold  woman.  She  was  grinning.  A  tear  had  run  down  her  cheek.  She  was  staring  at  me  again,  but  perhaps  she  didn't  actually  see  me.  Her  head,  as  if  locked  in  this  position,  never  moved  until  we  stopped  at  McDonald's  |  in  Landsberg.  I  bought  some  French  fries  and  an  orange  juice  and  put  both  under  her  nose,  but  she  made  no  attempt  to  eat  or  drink.  Then  I  pushed  the  straw  between  her  lips  and,  with  a  loud  gurgle,  she  emptied  the  entire  cup  in  one  go.  Wonderful,  I  said.  Then  the  next  walt  problem  occurred  to  me.  Better  now  than  later  on  the  road.  I  unpacked  the  wheelchair,  heaved  her  into  it,  and  pushed  it  into  the  restaurant.  But  we  couldn't  reach  the  rest-room  door;  the  hallway  was  much  too  narrow.  I  turned  the  wheelchair  around,  parked  it  at  the  en-  trance,  and  lifted  her  onto  my  back.  No  one  helped.  The  cus-  tomers  silently  noted  my  maneuvers.  They  all  seemed  to  be  eating  hamburgers.  Listen,  I  wanted  to  shout,  I  don't  know  the  woman  on  my  back.  I  have  never  seen  her  before,  I  found  her,  and  I  don't  have  to  keep  her!  Under  her  small-flowered  dress  she  wore  old-fashioned  woollen  stockings  that  were  fastened  to  her  baggy  under-  pants  with  clips.  I  didn't  know  how  the  clips  worked  and  it  took  an  eter-  nity  to  unfasten  them.  I  tugged  and  tugged.  She  watched  me  patiently,  as  144  you  would  watch  achild  trying  to  un-  button  her  own  jacket  for  the  first  time.  When  she  was  finally  settled  on  the  toilet,  she  looked  up  at  me.  There  was  a  trace  of  a  smile  in  one  corner  of  her  mouth.  Two  girls  giggled  in  the  cubicles  beside  us.  I'm  warning  you,  said  the  one,  if  you  let  him  fuck  you,  he'll  never  call  again.  I  don't  mind,  the  other  said,  and  giggled,  and,  besides,  I've  got  two  con-  doms  with  me.  Two?  sputtered  the  first  one.  Why  not?  the  other  said.  You  don't  live  forever.  The  old  woman  and  I  listened.  Then  the  girls  left.  I  dressed  her  and  carried  her  back  to  the  wheelchair,  and  pushed  her  toa  table.  I  was  soaked  with  perspiration.  I  walked  to  the  counter  to  get  alarge  Coke.  I  was  uncertain  about  returning  to  her.  A  fat,  bald  man  was  staring  at  me.  Had  he  taken  down  my  license  number?  Outside,  a  woman  was  video-  taping  her  children  on  the  slide.  Per-  haps  she  had  caught  me,  an  old  woman  on  my  back,  as  I  swayed  to  the  rest  room.  Amateur  moviemakers  have  a  way  of  anticipating  disasters.  A  Ken-  nedy  gets  assassinated,  a  hotel  in  Ma-  nila  burns  down,  an  airplane  crashes  and  there's  always  someone  with  a  videocamera.  I  could  see  the  clip  on  TV.  A  good-  looking  journalist  with  a  dotted  tie  in-  terrogating  me.  Why  did  you  take  the  old,  handicapped  woman  with  you  in  the  first  place  and  then  abandon  her  in  a  fast-food  restaurant?  Why  are  you  so  indecisive,  so  weak,  so  without  any  vi-  sion?  Why  do  you  visit  your  parents  so  seldom?  Why  don't  you  move  in  with  your  friend,  Chris?  Why  did  you  break  off  your  studies?  Why  don't  you  know  what  you  want?  THE  celebrations  had  started  with-  out  me.  Benches  and  tables  stood  in  a  flowering  meadow  surrounded  by  a  forest;  colorful  Chinese  lanterns  hung  from  trees;  a  fire  burned  in  the  grill;  a  case  of  beer  and  several  bottles  of  wine  lay  in  a  small  stream.  I  spotted  Chris.  He  stood  beside  [REDACTED].  His  blond  hair  shone  like  a  flame;  he  looked  young  and  healthy;  he  laughed.  He  recognized  my  car,  gave  his  glass  to  [REDACTED],  and  ran  toward  me.   Hey,  Vera,  where  have  you  been?  Only  when  he  bent  down  to  kiss  me  did  he  see  the  old  woman.  She  was  leaning  against  the  other  window,  asleep.  I  found  her,  I  said.  [REDACTED]  had  already  seen  her.  She  thought  we  should  inform  the  police  immedi-  ately.  The  others  gathered  round;  every-  one  had  an  opinion.  Axel  wanted  to  drive  her  to  a  hospital.  Olaf  suggested  dropping  her  off  in  Lechbruck  in  front  of  a  home  for  the  aged.  A  granny-foundling,  Chris  said,  and  laughed.  Imagine  if  she  were  yourgrand-  mother,  [REDACTED]  said.  Or  mother,  I  said.  Or  your  wife,  Axel  said,  and  you  are  already  dead  and  you've  left  her  behind.  But  she  isn't  my  wife,  Chris  said.  He  took  my  arm  and  walked  with  me  a  few  steps  across  the  meadow.  His  kisses  were  hot  and  hungry.    Don't  you  like  the  party?  he  said.  Yes,  I  said.  Thank  you.  Yes?  he  said.  Yes,  I  said.  Thank  you.  I  bust  a  gut  for  you  and  you  say  thank  you  asif  I'd  just  passed  you  the  saltshaker.  He  ripped  off  a  stalk  of  grass.  I  never  know  how  I  stand  with  you.  Don't  be  this  way.  One  day  you'll  look  for  me  and  I'll  be  gone.  Simply  gone.  I  watched  Axel  drag  the  old  wo-  man  from  the  car.  Her  legs  got  stuck,  and  the  door  closed  halfway.  Axel  stood  there,  helpless.  [REDACTED]  came  and  grabbed  the  old  woman's  legs,  and  together  they  carried  her  across  the  meadow  and  set  her  on  a  blanket  at  the  edgeof  the  for-  est.  For  a  while  she  sat  there  with  her  legs  outstretched.  Then  shekeeled  over  onto  her  back  like  a  beetle.  Axel  helped  the  old  woman  up  again  and  then  sat  down  beside  her.  I  squeezed  my  eyes  shut  until  the  two  of  them  blurred  together  and  looked  like  a  couple.  I'm  pleased,  I  really  am,  I  saidto  Chris.  Only  you  can't  see  it.  This  seemed  to  cheer  him  up.  Come  then,  Chris  said.  Come.  He  pulled  me  onto  the  grass.  I  saw  a  grasshopper  hanging  on  a  clover  leaf,  its  wings  quivering.  Buck-  bean,  buttercup,  red  bartsia,  long-leaved  speedwell.  My  mother  had  taught  me  the  names  of  these  flowers.  Picked,  dried,  pressed,  every  spring  again  and  again.  I  brought  my  father  countless  bouquets  that  always  wilted  by  the  time  he  came  home  in  the  evening.  Chris's  chin  was  unshaven,  a  light  stubble  on  a  dark  field.  He  kissed  the  hollow  of  my  collarbone  and  squeezed  the  breath  out  of  me.  I  straightened  up.  Not  now,  I  said.  I  got  up  and  walked  back.  When,  Chris  yelled  after  me,  when,  dammit?  NO  one  gave  me  a  thing  I  liked,  not  really.  It  was  as  if  they  didn't  know  me;  even  [REDACTED],  my  best  friend,  gave  me  a  green  silk  scarf,  although  she  must  know  that  I  can't  stand  that  color.  It  grew  dark.  [REDACTED]  lit  the  candles  in  the  Chinese  lanterns.  Chris  has  taken  great  pains,  [REDACTED]  said  to  me.  It  was  meant  to  be  really  romantic.  Now  you've  brought  this  woman  along,  and  everything  is  ruined.  We  looked  over  at  her.  The  old  wo-  man  was  leaning  against  a  tree  trunk.  Axel  was  inserting  small  pieces  of  wieners  into  her  mouth.  Should  I  have  left  her  sitting  on  the  Autobahn-and  let  her  die  in  the  heat?  [REDACTED]  shrugged.  Someone  would  have  come  along.  You  aren't  the  only  one,  she  said.  I  didn't  understand  her.  I  didn't  un-  derstand  anyone  atthis  party.  I  sat  down  on  a  wobbly  wooden  bench,  holding  my  plate  of  food.  Isabel  was  talking.  Isabel  was  a  tall,  beautiful  girl.  She  was  telling  the  others  about  a  faked-orgasm  competition  in  a  disco  in  Munich.  A  little  fatso  with  glasses  was  the  best  of  them,  she  said,  and  everyone  laughed.  He  looked  like  a  fifteen-year-old  virgin,  but  he  was  at  least  in  his  early  thirties.  He  yelped  like  a  dog  when  you  step  on  its  paws,  then  faster,  faster.  At  the  end  he  was  yelling,  Oh,  Mama,  oh,  Mama,  no,no,  yaaaah!  She  threw  her  head  back  and  howled.  Yaaaah!Yaaaah!  But  he  only  got  third  prize,  she  added  dryly.  The  public  goes  for  female  orgasms.  Beate  from  Rosenheim  had  started  beating  the  bench  rhythmically.  Isabel  joined  in,  and  then  the  others  did  as  well.  The  bench  was  shaking.  Yes,  everyone  shouted,  oh,  God,  yes,  yes,  yes.  They  shrieked  and  howled  at  the  same  time.  Jesus,  Olaf  called,  Jesus!  Everyone  was  laughing.  Chris  stood  beside  the  fire  drinking  rum  from  the  bottle  and  looking  at  me  reproachfully.  I  opened  my  mouth  and  screamed,  yes,  yes,yes,  but  he  just  kept  staring  and  shaking  his  head.  Axel  was  still  sitting  beside  the  old  woman  on  the  blanket.  The  weak  light  of  the  lantern  enveloped  them.  It  was  a  mild,  calm  evening.  The  fire  threw  shadows  over  the  shrieking  young  people.  Check  this  out,  Axel  called  out  to  me.  He  had  taken  offthe  woman's  black  coat.  A  notice  was  sewn  into  the  lining:  Thank  you  for  helping  my  mother.  Since  she  had  a  stroke,  she  is  hemiplegic.  She  can't  speak,  nor  can  she  understand  any-  thing.  I  am  sorry.  But  I,  too,  have  only  one  life.  The  daughter.  [REDACTED]  She  likes  it  when  you  stroke  her  arms.  I  sat  down  beside  theold  woman  and  took  her  arm  in  my  lap.  Slowly     145  I  stroked  her  old  skin.  It  felt  like  a  wilted  leaf.  The  phone  in  my  jacket  pocket  rang,  but  I  kept  stroking  her  arm.  There  was  something  else  I  wanted  to  tell  you,  said  my  mother.  Petra  Kuhn  threw  herself  in  front  of  the  subway.  Who  is  Petra  Kuhn?  You  don't  remember  Petra  Kuhn?  Your  best  friend  in  second  grade.  You  must  remember  that!  Mama,  I'm  telling  you  I  don't  know  who  she  is.  Petra  Kuhn,  the  girl  with  the  clean  hands-surely  you  remember.  She  al-  ways  had  spotlessly  clean  hands  and  fingernails.  Four  days  ago  she  threw  herself  in  front  of  the  subway.  They  say  she  couldn't  bear  that  her  father  is  dying.  Cancer.  Perhaps  she  only  slipped-no  one  will  ever  know  for  sure.  The  poor  thing.  I  happened  to  meet  her  mother  on  the  street.  She  looks  twenty  years  older.  Terrible,  eh?  Are  you  still  there?  Yes,  Mama.  I  thought  you'd  be  interested.  After  all,  she  used  to  be  your  friend.  I  won't  bother  you  again.  You're  not  bothering  me-not  a  bit.  My  mother  breathed  quietly  into  the  phone.  I  stroked  the  arm  of  theold  woman  until  I  imagined  it  was  my  own.  Around  us  the  air  smelled  of  fresh  grass,  resin,  and  burned  wood.  