 HE  time  has  now  come  when  I  we  can  look  back  on  parties.  There  have  been  so  many  par-  ties.  There  will  always  be  parties.  Par-  ties  are  going  on  now.  At  this  instant  there  are  people  just  recovered  from  the  party  of  last  night,  and  there  are  people  looking  round  their  house,  kitchen,  cas-  tle,  flat,  bed-sitting  room,  drawing  room,  studio,  and  saying,  &quot;Is  everything  ready?  They'll  be  here  soon.&quot;  At  the  same  mo-  ment  there  are  people  saying,  &quot;I  must  go  and  change,&quot;  or  dress  or  tidy  myself,  put  on  a  clean  collar,  makeup,  or  wash,  and  asking  for  their  sword,  dickey,  clean  white  waistcoat,  mask  or  fan,  for  spurs,  furs,  cuffs,  ruffs,  silver  shoes  or  sabots  with  a  daisy  painted  on  each  tip.  They  are  all  going  to  a  party.  How  often  on  leaving  their  homes  have  they  glanced  round  and  reminded  themselves  that  when  they  return,  drunk  or  sober,  good  tired  or  bad  tired,  sweetened  toward  life  or  embittered,  better  friends  with  the  people  they  are  going  to  meet  orthe  reverse,  the  place  will  not  look  the  same  again.  Not  quite-however  thank-  ful  we  are  to  see  it,  or  tired  or  excited.  A  change  will  have  come  over  it  because  we  left  it  to  go  to  a  party.  Itis  the  great  chance  for  Something  to  Happen.  We  may  come  back  in  love,  or  out  of  it-in  love  with  one's  mistress,  with  a  stranger,  with  humanity,  one's  kinsman,  or  with  one'shost,  or  with  the  salon  curtains  or  the  cloakroom  cat.  Or,  best  of  all,  in  love  with  one's  society,  with  the  life  of  the  world,  with  what  the  party  has  done  to  us.  The  time  has  also  come  when  one  must  say  that  parties  are  not  what  they  were,  and  when,  the  first  glad  rush  of  participation  spent,  one  no  longer  says,  &quot;I  must  give  a  party  at  once,&quot;  or  &quot;I  never  want  to  go  to  a  party  again.&quot;  But  memories  of  parties  enter  the  mind,  murmur  along,  and  now  and  then  one  of  them  rises  like  a  colored  bubble  and  makes  one  smile,  winks  out  on  the  mem-  ory  screen  as  another  succeeds  it.     BY  MARY  BUTTS  Finally,  there  was  the  new  crowd  that  began  to  arrive,  and  we  did  not  quite  know  what  to  do  with  them.  We  were  forced  to  explore  the  tricky  half  genera-  tion  younger  than  ourselves,  for  if  they  were  raw  we  were  not  yet  quite  ripe.  Be-  sides,  we  were  the  War  lot.  We  had  a  secret.  Something  that  they  couldn't  guess  at  and  didn't  want  to,  didn't  be-  lieve  in,  whose  mothers  had  been  only  wangling  enough  sugar  for  them  while  we-  Anyhow,  when  they  were  not  po-  litely  incredulous  about  our  war,  they  re-  sented  our  secret,  are  resenting  it  atthis  moment.  That  has  a  way  of  hurting,  is  likely  to  make  one  contemptuous  by  way  of  protection,  or  sometimes  really  bitter  and  wholly  aloof.  It  is  most  unfair.  One  is  thankful  that  those  born  after  us  are  having  a  youth  normal  and  proper  to  human  beings.  Nor  are  we  exactly  proud  of  ours,  we  who  know  that  there  is  a  line  to  describe  us,  which  says,  &quot;God  help  us,  for  we  knew  the  worst  too  young.&quot;  Nonetheless,  I  would  rather  sit  next  to  any  elderly  soldier  and  hear  him  say  that  the  Germans  and  only  the  Germans  were  to  blame  for  what  was  handed  out  to  us  in  1914  than  suffer  the  &quot;don't  bore  me&quot;  attitude  of  his  grandson.  This  is  the  complaint  of  the  neither-  old-nor-young  until  one  remembers  that  there  was  once  little  to  complain  of.  Little  in  comparison  with  the  ador-  able  fun.  For  there  is  or  was  this  bless-  edness  about  parties:  that,like  a  moon  dial,  they  only  count  the  hours  when  the  night  sky  is  clear  and  lit.  Almost  al-  ways-for  there  have  been  Awful  Par-  ties,  outstanding  for  some  catastrophe,  or  that  started  something  that  should  never  have  been  begun  and  will  never  come  to  an  end.  The  happy  party  in-  deed  should  have  no  history,  no  more  than  makes  for  agreeable  gossip  next  day,  parties  that  flash  by  like  danc-  ing  lightning,  leaving  only  bright  heat  behind.  Not  like  the  one  that  this  story  is  about.  For  some  seasons  parties  had  been  getting  wilder  and  wilder.  I  do  not  sug-  gest  that  that  evening  was  a  culmination,  that  since  that  night  they  have  not  been  getting  madder  and  madder.  But  this  one  was  as  much  as  most  of  us  could  stand.  As  one  of  a  series,  it  was  never  repeated.  It  happened  in  [REDACTED],  where  every-  thing  happens.  Its  beginning  had  been  a  good  idea,  when,  a  year  before,  a  cele-  brated  English  painter  and  his  wife  had  hired  for  their  friends  to  dance  in,  one  night  in  each  week,  a  tiny  café  the  work-  men  patronized,  in  a  remote,  magical,  hardly  known  quarter,  among  trees.  Here  and  there  in  [REDACTED]  one  finds  a  village,  packed  tight  on  a  little  hill.  The  luck  that  follows  love  had  led  them  to  this,  with  its  dancing  beside  a  tiny  square,  whose  patron  was  willing  to  hire  it  and  let  the  young  ladies  and  gentlemen  do  what  they  pleased.  I  can  see  it  now.  A  small  place,  panelled  in  varnished  wood,  with  its  bar  at  the  entrance,  and  harsh  drinks  in  coarse  glasses,  and,  inside,  the  little  raised  dancing  floor  with  a  minute  bal-  cony  high  on  one  wall,  no  more  than  a  cage,  where  the  drummer  sat.  He  was  a  wisp  of  a  man,  but  his  drum  was  huge,  and  beside  him  agross  giant  swung  a  concertina  like  agiant  caterpillar  across  his  chest  and  tossed  it,  squealing  over  the  rails,  above  our  heads.  There  was  no  room  upon  the  wall  for  more  than  those  two,  but  I  remember,  from  time  to  time,  a  shriek  that  cut  across  their  tune,  and  made  us  all  spin  and  throw  ourselves  about,  and  that  it  came  from  a  body  I  could  not  see  and  a  head  I  could  just  see,  between  the  shoulders  of  the  two  others,  blowing  some  sort  of  pipe  with  stops.  They  made  a  glorious  noise  together,  too  fast  for  our  blues-trained  feet,  but  nobody  minded.  We  bounded  and  gal-  loped  and  twisted  about  and  got  hot  and  happy,  and  between  dances  wandered  out  into  the  little  square,  where  you  could  hear  the  trees  talking.  It  was  a  good  idea.  It  was  cheap.  It  was  innocent,  as  only  [REDACTED]  canbe  inno-  cent.  And  when  it  ended  something  in  an  epoch  came  to  an  end  and  was  writ-  ten  off,  but  at  the  same  time  its  successor  was  announced-a  less  desirable  guest.  HERE  was  a  woman  come  lately  to  [REDACTED],  from  somewhere  in  43616e616461Europe  by  way  of  New  York,  who  made  her  living  by  giving  us  some-  thing  to  talk  about.  She  wrote  verse  that  consisted  wholly  of  noises.  We  are  hardened  tothat  by  now,  but  she  was  one  of  the  first.  Her  history  was  the  kind  this  writer  has  a  personal  dis-  taste  for,  but  which  many  con-  sider  romantic,  and  acclaim,  if  not  in  their  purses  (and  it  al-  ways  is),  in  their  indulgence.  Hers  was  the  usual  kind.  She  had  been  a  beautiful  model;  she  had  made  a  marriage  that  gave  her  a  stately  title,  a  name  that  suited  her  less  than  any  name  you  can  imagine.  He  had  then  killed  himself,  and  his  family,  ruined  by  the  man,  would  nei-  ther  pay  her  nor  acknowledge  her.  So  she  had  set  up  in  New  York,  on  the  strength  of  her  name,  to  become  a  family  curse,  blackmailing  them  across  the  water,  but  innocently,  like  a  child  that  has  been  taught  bad  language.  The  sort  of  story  one  has  heard,  with  its  legend  of  past  beauty  and  boundless  wealth  and  innumerable  lovers.  We  heard  a  great  deal  about  her  past  beauty.  She  worked  a  variation  on  the  aged-courtesan  theme:  now  it  was  gone,  so  let  it  go.  Indeed,  her  chief  stunt,  which  made  us  all  laugh  and  sympathize  and  even  contribute  to  her  support,  was  a  2  rather  witty  definition  of  her  lost  loveli-  §  ness  First  she  dyed  her  fading  hair  bright  green  Then  she  shaved  it  off  and  lac-  3  Z  quered  her  head  scarlet,  painting  on  the  g  skull  a  phallic  sign.  She  varied  this  device  Z  on  other  parts,  not  usually  visible.  On  2  each  knee-and  her  knees  showed-she  &amp;  painted  a  skull;  for  an  umbrella  she  car-  @  ried  a  hearth  brush,  and  for  jewels  wore  l:  odd  bits  of  tin  junk  from  the  dustbin.  I  z  remember  one  of  those  wire  sponges  used  3  to  scrape  plates,  hung  on  a  bootlace  for  a  6  ©  pendant,  and  a  hat  topped  with  a  bottle  &amp;  brush  for  ahat  pin.  Another  hat  made  entirely  from  a  coal  scoop.  I  can  never  make  out  now  whether  one  is  in  the  wrong  when  one  neither  COURTESY  ESTA     ip  ~Sl  nig  346.  laughs  unconcernedly  at  this  nor  weeps  at  its  pathos,  when  on  the  whole  one  thinks  it  rather  beastly  and  shrugs  one's  shoulders.  Most  people  laughed  and  were  rather  kind,  some  were  very  kind.  One  excuse  was  that  it  would  have  been  different  if  the  poems  had  been  any  good.     In  many  ways,  the  Empress,  as  the  Americans  called  her,  was  not  unamica-  ble.  To  some  of  the  people  who  had  stood  by  her  in  times  of  stress,  she  was  loyal-  picking  out,  as  such  persons  do,  her  loyal-  ties  at  hazard.  Nothing  was  allowed  to  be  said  against  one  woman  who  had  done  her  such  and  sucha  service,  while  nothing  could  be  too  bad  for  another  who  had  re-  ally  done  as  much,  if  not  more.  Haphaz-  ard  caprice,  as  is  the  way  of  such  women,  and  to  the  Empress  it  was  women  now  who  were  kind.  Men  seemed  not  to  fall  for  it.  Yet  there  was  a  point  on  which  the  aging  courtesan  (oddly  enough,  she  ap-  peared  far  older  than  she  was,  already  something  of  the  crone)  would  not  have  a  doubt  cast,  and  where  the  most  veiled  in-  credulity  provoked  fury:  the  supposition  that  men  no  longer  wished  to  take  her  to  bed.  It  seemed  to  me  that  the  wretched  suicide  of  her  last  husband-much  as  she  claimed  that  he  did  it  on  her  account  and  some  friends  of  his  that  he  had  only  married  her  when  he  was  drunk  and,  on  sobering,  had  fled-had  af-  fected  her  in  some  way  she  did  not  explain,  driven  her  actually  a  little  mad.  Something  had  shaken  her  faith  in  herself,  more  than  creeping  age  and  fading  looks  and  even  poverty  shake  that  faith.  So  she  insisted  that,  in  spite  of  the  lacquer  and  the  hearth  brush,  she  could  still  snare  men.  As  in  youth  she  must  have  done,  for  she  had  been  very  beautiful.  But  it  was  all  too  grotesque  and  rather  ob-  scene  to  be  to  one's  taste.  And  yet-and  yet-one  is  not  proud  of  oneself  for  having  shrugged  so  much.  For  one  thing,  one  did  not  really  One  heard  much,  and  finally  saw  only  one  I  flad  dined  across  the  river  A  hany  %  with  a  young  man,  who  was  a  Aan  saga  in  himself,  a  whole  string  of  wind  songs.  I  did  not  know  him  well,  and  we  sat  talking;  and  when  he  said  &quot;Where  shall  we  go?&quot;  I  answered,  &quot;Let's  try  the  Master's  dancing.  It's  ages  since  I've  been  there.&quot;  It  was  a  quiet,  dark  winter  night  when  our  taxi  drew  up.  We  were  high  up,  with  most  of  [REDACTED]  beneath  us,  though  we  could  not  see  it,  because  of  the  tall  houses  like  cliff  faces  between  us  and  the  breakaway  down  to  the  river.  The  lit-  tle  café  gave  directly  onto  the  pavement.  Through  its  open  doors  we  could  see  al-  ready  several  of  our  friends  in  silhouette.  Neither  the  Old  Master  nor  his  wife  was  there.  They  had  gone  away  south,  and  until  thespringthe  parties  supposedly  would  stop;  only  with  the  spring-the  adorable  [REDACTED]  spring-would  they  begin  again.  But  here  we  were,  and  here  was  another  party,  even  without  the  Old  Mas-  ter,  for  the  parties  had  become  a  fixture,  a  habit.  The  young  man,  who  was  called  Valentine,  went  in  with  me.  We  were  tranquil,  not  elated.  At  once,  there  came  overus  that  sense  of  dislocation  when  the  people  in  a  normal  state  enter  a  ring,  a  circle  of  others,  threaded  by  a  similar  12  and  violent  excitement,  whirling  in  it.  One  had  better  try  at  once  to  get  into  their  state,  join  them  spiritually  as  well  as  actually.  Or  else  stay  quiet,  just  outside  that  ring.  In  an  instant  our  friends  broke  upon  us  like  waves,  and  the  smoke,  music,  roar  of  talk,  and  glitter  of  lights  and  glass  were  like  a  spray,  springing  up,  drenching  us.  Immediately  we  saw  the  Empress  in  the  middle  of  the  shiny  floor,  her  hunched  body  tied  up  in  strips  of  gold  lace,  its  rags  torn  in  points,  with  the  round  bright  lids  that  come  off  cigarette  tins  for  tassels.  Behind  her  was  some-  thing  that  swung  and  rolled  with  a  hard  rumble,  audible  under  the  cries  and  shouts  and  the  swing  of  the  concertina  above  our  heads,  as  the  huge  man  up  there  blared  out  &quot;Valencia.&quot;  I  saw  that  it  was  the  large  colored-glass  knob  of  a  door  handle.  Valentine  handed  me  a  glass  of  vile  and  potent  brandy,  and  I  stepped  over  the  ring  into  the  run  and  tap  and  pounce  and  shout  and  stamp  and  roar  of  that  evening's  entertainment.  For  we  did  dance,  years  of  rigidly  con-  trolled  blues  and  tangos  and  neat  fox-  trots  gone  west  like  an  inhibition  as  we  bumped  and  galloped.  The  men  swung  the  women  round,  and  the  women  came  to  pieces  and  lost  their  shoes,  and  their  hair  hung  over  their  eyes  in  wet  rags  and  their  beads  broke.  Lionel,  an  enormous  Irishman,  picked  me  up,  and  I  found  my-  self  lifted  and  dropped  and  banged  about  and  I  lost  my  breath  and  roared  with  laughter.  I  flung  myself  onto  a  side  table  to  get  my  breath  and  was  snatched  off  again  and  flung  through  the  air,  singing  &quot;Valencia&quot;  at  the  top  of  my  lungs  with  the  rest,  until  we  fetched  off  panting  in  the  outer  bar  and  poured  down  what  did  a  good  deal  more  than  quench  our  thirst.  When  my  breath  steadied  and  I  looked  back,  the  floor  was  emptier.  Some  people  began  to  go  away.  It  was  our  own  set,  the  group  of  our  friends,  who  stayed-out  to  make  a  night  of  it,  as  I  was  by  then.  Or  almost.  Perhaps  that  long  and  furious  dance  had  torn  a  nerve  of  energy  out  of  me,  but  I  found  that  I  was  outside  the  ring  again,  not  quite  comfortable,  but  more  than  able  to  watch.  In  the  middle  of  the  floor,  the  Em-  press  was  still  at  her  pas  seul,  something  between  Salome  and  a  cakewalk.  Her  head  low,  she  danced  with  such  concen-  tration  that  it  made  me  think  of  spells  and  witchcraft  and  the  winding  up  of  chains.  Valentine  joined  us,  along  with  Al-  leyne,  the  lovely,  lazy  woman  all  men  and  most  women  loved,  and  who  of  all  peo-  ple  had  been  the  kindest  to  the  Empress.  &quot;She's  mad  at  me  tonight,&quot;  Alleyne  said.  &quot;She  will  have  it  that  Lionel's  in  love  with  her,  because  he  asked  her  if  he  could  paint  her.  Offered  to  do  the  lac-  quer  a  new  way.  She  thought  he  meant  hand-holding,  and  nothing  I  could  say,  I  mean  about  Lionel  not  loving  made  a  bit  of  difference.  He  would  keep  dancing  with  me,  and  look  at  him  now.  I  said  I  wouldn't  dance  again  if  he  wouldn't  dance  with  the  Empress,  and  all  he's  doing  is  lying  on  the  floor  under  the  table  making  noises  and  trying  to  catch  her  by  the  leg  and  trip  her  up.  Won't  anybody  try  and  make  him  give  her  a  dance?&quot;  It  was  only  too  true.  I  could  just  see  Lionel,  the  Irishman,  lying  happily  on  his  front,  creeping  out  from  under  a  table  and  trying  to  grab  the  Empress  by  an  ankle.  I  knew  as  well  as  anyone  else  that  the  heavens  could  fall  before  Lionel  ex-  changed  amusement  for  duty.  As  we  made  again  for  the  dancing  floor  I  saw  Lionel  take  the  doorknob  and  fling  it  out  with  a  neat  spin  that  wrapped  the  cord  tight  round  the  Empress's  an-  kles  and  tripped  her  up,  just  the  way  a  weighted  skipping  rope  used  to  do  at  school.  She  went  down  suddenly  with  a  bump  that  must  have  split  the  lacquer,  and  then  she  sat  on  the  floor  looking  up  at  us.  I  did  not  like  the  look  in  those  sad  and  starving  eyes.  A  wave  of  laughter  broke  out,  led  by  Lionel's  high,  wild  gig-  gle,  and  then  we  plunged  into  it  again,  stamping  our  feet  in  their  crushed  shoes.  QUARTER  of  an  hour  later,  I  limped  again  to  the  bar,  Valentine  with  me.  We  were  all  there,  trying  to  drink  and  talk  at  the  top  of  our  voices,  through  our  lost  breath.  The  floor  was  almost  empty,  except  for  the  Empress,  on  her  feet  again  and  going  on  with  her  solo.  She  was     THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  30,  1998  turning  round  and  round  with  minute  steps  in  a  circle,  withinher  own  axis,  her  head  now  back  like  a  hen  drinking,  now  bent  down,  with  those  starving  eyes  on  the  floor.  Then,  from  under  the  tables,  Lionel  came  out  like  a  dachshund  or  a  ferret  or  an  exceedingly  long  young  man,  and  sprang  down  the  steps  to  the  lane  be-  tween  the  café  tables,  his  arms  wide  out,  and  caught  Alleyne.  &quot;One  more  dance  before  they  close  up,&quot;  he  cried.  They  raced  back  to  the  floor  together  and  danced.  Before  the  Empress,  alongside  the  Empress,  past  the  Em-  press.  We  joined  them,  and  in  minutes  we  had  all  joined  hands,  playing  ring-a-  ring-of-roses  round  the  Empress,  with  a  song-not  the  original  song-to  match.  Somebody  slipped  and  the  circle  broke  and  flew  out  in  all  directions.  Lionel,  flung  out  against  a  wall,  struck  his  head,  staggered,  and  slipped  down  full  length,  unconscious.  I  remember  his  long  brown  hands  with  the  fingers  spread  as  though  feeling  the  plaster  as  he  fell.  His  friend,  another  Irishman,  rushed  to  him.  I  had  fallen  sideways,  and  my  arm,  breaking  my  fall,  had  not  broken.  Valentine  had  fallen  clean  down  the  steps  and  clear  of  them  andwas  beginning  to  sit  up.  I  went  to  him.  A  girl  had  fallen  onto  a  table.  A  man  had  rolled  under  a  table.  Above  our  heads,  the  concertina  swayed  and  blazed  and  the  drum  rattled  and  the  pipe  shrieked,  it  seemed  now,  without  a  stop.  Again,  instantly,  I  found  myself  out-  side  it  all,  as  my  breath  came  back  and  my  voice  came  into  control.  Time  fora  bath  and  bed.  I  was  a  little  irritated  that  I  had  not  lost  myself  and  was  not  now  de-  termined  to  carry  on  till  morning  and  let  the  next  day's  work  go  hang.  Valentine  and  I  helped  each  other  to  thebar  to  get  a  drink.  We  were  perhaps  still  a  lit-  tle  dazed.  Thinking  of  my  cloak,  we  looked  back,  and  it  was  then  that  we  began  to  take  in  the  disaster  behind  us.  People  were  picking  themselves  up  and  groaning,  but  Alleyne  was  lying  where  she  had  fallen.  The  Empress  was  still  dancing  where  she  had  been  dancing  before,  but,  if  you  like,  a  step  up.  She  was  dancing  on  Alleyne,  up  and  down  her  body.  On  her  belly  and  on  her  breast.  She  gave  a  little  jump,  and  it  was  on  her  face,  and  already  blood  was  beginning  to  pour  from  Alleyne's  nose.  There  was  a  pool  of  it  on  the  floor  before  Valentine  went  over  and  knocked  the  Empress  off.   As  he  shoved  at  her  she  clung  and  nearly  had  him  over  again,  and  then  we  all  began  to  crowd  round.  I  fell  on  my  knees,  trying  to  see  how  hurt  Alleyne  was.  Her  eyes  were  closed  and  she  was  trying  to  say  something.  The  band,  which  had  paused  for  a  second  while  it  pulled  at  a  beer  that  someone  had  handed  up,  began  again  with  a  crash.  &quot;Valencia&quot;  again.  I  saw  Lionel,  recovered,  try  to  beat  time  feebly.  I  stayed  kneeling  by  Alleyne,  her  blood  getting  over  my  dress,  and  now  running  on  my  bare  arms,  and  on  Valentine's  shirtfront,  who  was  kneeling  opposite.  Somehow  we  got  her  up  onto  a  chair.  The  band  screamed  on.  There  was  bro-  ken  glass  on  the  floor  where  a  table  had  been  knocked  over,  and  at  the  café  door  a  few  workmen  of  the  quarter  had  come  in  for  a  quiet  drink  and  were  staring  at  what  was  going  on.  &quot;We  must  get  her  home,&quot;  said  Valen-  tine,  and  I  knew  he  was  still  outside  the  ring,  just  as  I  was.  I  saw  the  Empress,  no  longer  dancing  but  sitting  malevolently  in  a  corner,  counting  the  tins  on  the  ends  of  the  rags.  Two  or  three  of  the  fallen  were  making  an  effort  to  dance  again.  Valen-  tine  got  Alleyne  up.  I  snatched  my  cloak.  Just  then  the  band  made  a  final  effort,  and  someone  sprang  up  onto  a  table,  to-  wering  enormously  over  the  tiny  room.  It  was  the  Irishman,  Lionel,  who  now  be-  gan  to  conduct  to  the  wild  tune.  A  rain  of  something  cool  and  sticky  pattered  on  my  face.  He  was  conducting  with  roses  my  roses,  the  red  roses  Valentine  had  given  me  to  carry,  which  had  slipped  into  the  pool  of  blood  from  Alleyne  on  the  floor.  He  whirled  them  round  and  the  drops  flew,  a  scarlet  rain  over  walls  and  floor  and  over  our  mouths  and  eyes  and  hair.  It  was  a  benediction  calling  upon  us  to  thank  the  absent,  infinitely  correct  givers  of  our  party,  and  wouldn't  they  be  sur-  prised  if  they  could  see  us  now.  &quot;This  will  bring  down  the  curtain  on  the  Old  Master's  parties,  I  bet,&quot;  said  Valentine.  We  got  Alleyne  down  the  steps,as  with  one  last  sweep  the  Irish-  man  sprayed  the  room  again.  The  flowers  were  beginning  to  come  to  pieces,  the  petals  flying,  and  one  broken-off  head  hit  the  back  of  my  neck.  The  patron  had  called  a  taxi,  and  we  took  Alleyne  home.  For  weeks  after,  before  Alleyne  was  about  again,  long  before  she  was  fit  to  look  at,  people  spoke  of  that  party  as  one  of  the  funniest  things  that  ever  happened.  Now,  was  it  funny,  or  wasn't  it?ector  Guimard  Fund.  R  io  CHa-I-  1C  Alit  &quot;  atk  ick  c  dt  d  rev  Gus     