Nachman   HAD  the  blues.  Maybe  it  was  the  weather,  cold  and  gray,  unusual  for  Santa  Monica;  or  maybe  it  was  a  change  in  Nachman's  body  chemistry,  or  maybe  it  was  a  psychological  problem,  a  co-  nundrum  below  consciousness.  Maybe  'it  was  just  being  over  fifty,  or  the  fact  that  he  needed  a  haircut.  Two  months  since  the  last  one.  Nachman  telephoned  Felicity  Trang.  She  said,  &quot;Felicity  Hair  Salon.&quot;  Said  Nachman,  &quot;I  want  to  make  an  appointment.&quot;  &quot;We  have  free  time  at  noon.  O.K.?  Which  girl  you  want?&quot;  &quot;I  want  Felicity.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  What  name?&quot;  &quot;Nachman.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Dr.  Nachman.  How  nice.&quot;  &quot;Not  'Doctor.'  Nachman  is  good  enough.  I'll  see  you  at  noon,  Felicity.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Thank  you,  Not  Doctor,  ha-  ha-ha.&quot;  Felicity's  laughter,  excessive  yet  pleas-  ing,  continued  to  stir  in  Nachman  after  he  put  down  the  phone.  He  felt  better  already.  He  imagined  himself  tipped  back  in  the  chair,  surrendering  his  head,  a  hairy  bundle  of  complexities,  to  Felic-  ity's  ministrations.  There  were  other  ways  of  dealing  with  low  spirits,  but  Nachman  wouldn't  take  drugs  and  rarely  exercised.  He'd  told  himself  more  thanonce  that  Felic-  ity  cost  less,  for  the  same  amount  of  time,  than  a  psychiatrist.  She  compared  well  with  any  doctor.  A  haircut  was  a  visible,  tangible  result,  and  Nachman  would  feel  reborn.  Hair  grew  back,  but  psychological  problems  also  returned.  In  essence,  nobody  changed.  Don't  think  that  way,  he  told  himself,  teetering  at  the  edge  of  a  mental  hole.  Walk  briskly.  He  was  almost  there,  and  looked  for-  ward  to  the  shampoo.  To  Nachman,  it  was  worth  the  price  of  the  whole  haircut.  A  haircut  in  Santa  Monica.     BY  LEONARD  MICHAELS  Then  would  come  the  skull  massage.  Before  the  haircut  itself,  before  she  picked  up  her  comb  and  scissors,  Felic-  ity  always  stood  beside  his  chair,  her  shoulder  pressed  gently  to  his.  Together  they  looked  at  Nachman's  face  in  the  mirror,  and  Felicity  asked  how  Nach-  man  would  like  her  to  cut  his  hair.  Her  voice  was  sweetly  deferential,  her  expres-  sionrapt  with  concern  to  please.  Nach-  man  always  said  the  same  thing,  slightly  choked  by  self-consciousness:  &quot;Not  too  short.&quot;  &quot;&quot;This  long  you  like?&quot;  she  responded,  always  touching  the  top  of  his  ear,  and  everso  lightly  fingering  it.  &quot;Yes,  about  right  there.&quot;  &quot;Layered?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Small  scissors.  No  electric  clippers.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  No  machines.  Only  small  scissors  and  comb.  Comb  O.K.?  Ha-ha.&quot;  Nachman  felt  gooseflesh  along  his  arms,  and  then  a  general  surge  of  plea-  sure,  like  a  mass  of  troops  racing  across  a  ﬁeld  overwhelmmg  its  enemy,  anxi-  ety,  vanqulshmg  it.  The  battle  of  such  emotions,  thought  Nachman,  is  what  a  man  feels  when  he  is  about  to  get  married.  In  short,  approximately  every  two  months,  Nachman  married  Felicity  Trang  for  about  forty-five  minutes.  Nachman  opened  the  door  and  en-  tered  the  barbershop.  Four  Vietnamese  women  barbers  were  at  work.  Felicity  was  free,  sitting  at  the  cash  register  near  the  door.  She  smiled  at  Nachman  and  stood  rightup.  He  followed  her  to  a  chair,  sat  down,  and  abandoned  himself  to  the  ritual,  becoming  oblivious  of  ev-  eryone  in  the  barbershop  except  Felicity  and  himself.  He  imagined  their  mar-  riage,  mediated  by  his  hair,  as  heavenly,  an  eternal  condition,  though  he  knew,  when  Felicity  fashioned  the  ultimate  shape  of  his  hair  with  a  comb  and  a  blow-dryer,  the  marriage  was  over.  He  also  knew  he  wouldn't  look  good.  She  was  a  terrible  barber.  The  haircut  &quot;styled&quot;  by  her  would  look  as  if  it  had  been  in-  flicted,  and  it  would  bring  to  mind  im-  ages  of  poor  laboring  men,  or  hicks.  So?  It  looked  honest  enough,  and  the  point  cannot  be  made  too  strongly  that  Nachman  loved  the  feeling  of  Felicity's  hands  soaping  his  hair,  then  massaging  his  skull  behind  the  ears,  and,  with  a  subtle  circular  movement,  his  occipital  bump.  She  knew  how  to  touch  a  man.  As  for  the  actual  haircut,  it  would  have  been  wise  to  call  in  a  different  barber,  or  anybody  passing  in  the  street,  but  even  so,  when  Felicity  stepped  back  and  tilted  her  head  as  she  studied  the  progress  of  her  work,  Nachman  saw  that  she  con-  sidered  herself  a  first-class  barber  and  his  heart  went  out-no,  it  rushed  out-  to  her.  He  would  never  say  a  word  that  might  suggest  reservations  or  criticism.  To  know  the  consequences  of  an  ac-  tion  is  one  thing.  To  eschew  the  action  is  another.  Who  would  smoke  cigarettes  if  this  weren't  true,  let  alone  have  casual  sex,  thought  Nachman  some-  what  irrelevantly-Nachman  who,  de-  spite  his  susceptibility  to  women,  was  a  strict  observer  of  limits.  He  didn't  fool  around.  For  forty-five  minutes  every  two  months-you  couldn't  call  it  fooling  around-Nachman  was  in  no  danger  of  compromising  himself.  A  haircut  was  inconsequential,  erotic,  not  sexual.  Thus  tumbled  the  thoughts  of  a  serious  being.  By  pleasure  deranged,  maybe,  but  no  longer  depressed.  Near  the  end,  Felicity  would  say,  &quot;You  like  O.K.?&quot;  Nachman  would  say,  &quot;Perfect.&quot;  He  would  sound  drowsy.  Later,  he  always  tipped  generously  and  smiled,  saying,  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  and  walked  giddily  home,  supposing  that  his  head  might  now  look  appropriate  on  §  a  pedestal  in  his  garden,  with  agrin  on  $  his  lips,  expressing  blissful  indifference  &amp;  &amp;  to  the  fluttering  doves  and  jays,  alight,  2  ing  and  asquat,  shitting  on  his  hair-  cut.  But  where  else,  for  twenty-two  dol-  lars  (four  for  the  shampoo,  thirteen  for  the  haircut,  and  a  five-dollar  tip),  could  Nachman  get  such  relief  from  low  spir-  its,  such  uncomplicated  satisfaction?  He'd  have  paid  more.  Felicity,  a  small  woman  about  forty  years  old,  had  a  complexion  slightly  ru-  ined  by  acne  and  a  figure  slightly  ruined  by  childbearing.  Color  photographs  of  her  three  children-two  boys  and  a  girl-were  taped  to  the  mirror.  Nach-  man  always  asked  about  them.  Felicity  told  him  they  spoke  Vietnamese  as  well  as  English.  Lowering  her  voice  to  a  whisper,  as  if  she  feared  the  evil  ear,  she  said  her  children  were  excellent  stu-  dents-they  were  first  in  their  respec-  tive  classes.  She  also  talked  about  her  husband,  who  refused  to  let  her  invite  friends  to  dinner,  or  attend  night  school  to  study  English,  or  drive  the  family  car.  She  walked  when  she  went  shopping.  And  walking  to  work  took  over  an  hour.  In  Los  Angeles  it  was  impossible  for  her  to  visit  people  without  a  car.  The  few  women  she  knew  at  the  church,  to  which  she  walked  once  a  week,  lived  too  far  away.  Felicity  said,  &quot;I  hope  someday  I  have  more  friends.&quot;  Nachman  wondered  if  Felicity  hoped  he  would  be  her  friend.  Probably  not,  but  the  idea  embarrassed  him.  He  felt  a  touch  of  anxiety.  The  haircut  was  friendship  enough.  Felicity  lived  in  a  different  world.  She  went  to  church,  un-  imaginable  for  Nachman.  They  could  probablynever  have  much  to  say  to  each  other.  A  few  questions,  a  few  answers.  Felicity  once  asked  what  kind  of  work  Nachman  did.  He  told  her  he  was  a  professor  of  mathematics.  She  once  asked  if  he  was  married.  He  told  her  he  was  not  married.  Today  she  asked  if  he  lived  alone.  He  told  her  he  lived  alone.  This  was  the  furthest  they  had  got  con-  versationally,  and  Nachman  didn't  ex-  pect  or  want  them  to  achieve  a  higher  level  of  generalization,  or  a  deeper  level  of  intimacy.  &quot;No  girlfriend?&quot;  Felicity  said,  as  if  the  idea  took  her  breath  away.  &quot;No.&quot;  Did  she  have  someone  in  mind  for  him?  Nachman  continued  to  wonder  what  her  gasp  could  mean,  but,  at  the  moment,  Felicity's  small  scissors,  work-  ing  about  his  ears,  pleased  him  to  the  point  of  stupefaction,  and  he  enjoyed  the  ripping  sensation  as  she  pulled  the  comb  through  lengths  of  wet  hair  caught  between  her  middle  and  index  fingers  before  she  snipped  and  snip-  snipped,  and,  in  the  shallow  depths  of  a  semi-sleep,  he  liked  the  way  she  then  released  it  with  studious  and  insensitive  attention  to  its  layers,  mutilating  it.  Nachman  felt  no  annoyance  or  despair,  only  the  musical  nature  of  the  occasion.  In  the  sound  and  pull  of  the  comb  drawn  through  his  hair  came  the  rich  tones  of  a  cello  pulling  against  the  flight  and  flash  of  scissoring  violins,  and,  spinning  high  and  away  in  thought,  Nachman  wished  he  had  a  ton  of  hair  so  this  fine  delirium  could  last  longer  than  forty-five  minutes.  Hair,  he  thought,  is  basic  to  erotic  connections  between  a  man  and  a  woman,  usually  the  woman's  hair,  and,  and,  and-what  follows?  Nachman  didn't  know,  but  he  pursued  the  thought-no,  the  thought  pursued  Nachman-as  he  felt  a  pressure  against  his  elbow,  which  rested  on  the  arm  of  the  barber  chair.  Felicity  was  no  more  than  five  feet  four,  if  that  tall.  Her  arms  weren't  long.  She  had  to  lean  with  her  whole  torso  as  she  moved  about  the  chair.  Her  pel-  vis  brushed  against  Nachman's  elbows,  on  either  side  of  the  chair.  Merely  in-  evitable  given  Felicity's  build,  thought  Nachman,  but  thinking  about  it  he  won-  dered  if  there  weren't  asuggestion  in  her  pelvis  as  she  said,  &quot;My  husband  never  talks  to  me.  He  comes  home  late.  Tired.  Never  talks.&quot;  Nachman's  heartbeat  could  be  de-  tected  pulsing  in  the  cloth  that  lay  across  his  chest,  and  he  felt  himself  hardening.  He  assumed  Felicity  meant  that  she  had  something  in  common  with  him:  Nachman  had  no  girl,  and  Felicity  had  no  man  to  talk  to.  &quot;Never  talks?&quot;  said  Nachman.  &quot;Not  touched  me  for  many  months.&quot;  Nachman's  pleasure,  which  had  been  diffuse,  felt  suddenly  concentrated.  He  felt  a  rush  of  energy,  a  strong  disposi-  tionto  act.  Nachman  to  the  first  power  was  becoming  Nachman  to  the  second,  an  entirely  different  creature,  a  stranger  to  himself,  the  agent  of  a  potentiality.  His  hand  jerked  spasmodically  and  seized  Felicity's  upper  thigh,  just  below  her  crotch.  Hardly  breaking  the  rhythm  of  her  work,  she  twisted  herhip  to  the  side  and  Nachman's  hand  fell  away.  She'd  experi-  149  enced  this  before,  apparently,  and  knew  how  to  deal  with  it.  She  didn't  even  interrupt  her  work.  Nachman  sat  in  the  chair,  rigid,  vibrant,  pulsing,  burn-  ing  with  the  unconsummated  violence  that  had  taken  his  hand,  and  burn-  ing  with  shame.  In  the  mirror  he  and  Felicity  were  all  that  he  could  see.  The  other  chairs  and  customers  and  women  didn't  exist.  Felicity  said,  &quot;I  could  meet  a  friend  sometimes,  maybe.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;A  man  who  would  be  gentle.&quot;  Her  voice  was  so  soft  that  Nach-  man  hardly  felt  the  reproach.  He  al-  most  imagined  that  she  was  hinting,  encouraging  him  to  entertain  a  romantic  supposition.  Soon  the  haircut  was  finished,  and  Felicity  stood  beside  the  chair  as  she  had  at  the  beginning,  intently  looking  at  Nachman's  head  in  the  mirror.  &quot;O.K.?  Not  too  short?&quot;  she  said  cheerily.  Nachman  said,  &quot;Perfect.&quot;  He  followed  her  to  the  cash  register,  his  hand  in  his  pants  pocket  feeling  for  bills.  He  felt  a  stick  of  gum,  too,  and  pulled  it  out,  nervously  unwrapping  it,  and  beginning  to  chew  it  as  he  counted  two  tens  and  a  five.  She  had  appealed  for  a  friend,  and  Nachman  had  groped  her.  Money  might  make  things  worse,  but  he  dropped  the  bills  on  the  counter  beside  the  cash  register,  and,  as  Felicity  started  to  give  him  his  change,  he  said,  &quot;No,keep  it,&quot;  and  he  looked  at  her  with  the  face  of  a  man  chewing  gum-  somewhat  cool,  somewhat  moronic-  but  Nachman  didn't  know  how  to  look  at  her,  or  what  to  do  or  say.  His  eyes  were  silent  beggars.  Felicity  said,  &quot;Oh,  ha-ha.  I  like  gum,  too.&quot;  She  understood  what  he  felt.  Nach-  man  realized  she  was  trying  to  con-  nect,  trying  to  make  him  feel  all  right.  Instantly,  he  searched  his  pockets  for  another  stick  of  gum.  He  found  none.  Felicity's  smile  saddened  and  became  an  ironical  little  pout,  and  she  opened  her  eyes  wideandshook  her  head  no,  no,  asif  sympathizing  with  a  child,  and  then  said,  &quot;Ha-ha-ha,&quot;  a  high  and  utterly  artificial  laugh,  but  with  such  good  will  that  Nachman  laughed,  too,  and  they  laughed  together  as  Nachman  said  goodbye,  leaving  the  barbershop  with  a  sense  that  he'd  been  forgiven. 