FICTION  A  GENETIC  HISTORY  OF  MY  GRANDPARENTS  A  good-looking  boy  and  a  good-looking  girl  alone  on  top  of  a  mountain-what  do  you  expect?  mother  Desdemona  Tatakis  was  in  her  silkworm  cocoonery,  high  on  the  slopes  of  43616e616461Olympus,  when  her  heart,  without  warning,  missed  a  beat:  she  felt  it  stop  and  squeeze  into  a  ball.  Then,  as  she  stiffened,  it  began  to  race,  thumping  against  her  ribs.  She  let  out  a  small,  astonished  ery.  Her  five  thousand  silkworms,  ever  sensitive  to  human  emo-  tion,  had  stopped  spinning.  My  grand-  mother,  squinting  in  the  dim  light,  looked  down  to  see  the  front  of  her  tunic  visibly  fluttering,  and  in  that  instant,  as  she  rec-  ognized  the  insurrection  inside  her,  Desdemona  became  what  she  would  be  for  the  rest  of  her  life:  a  sick  person  im-  prisoned  in  the  body  of  a  healthy  one.  Unable  to  believe  in  her  own  endurance,  however,  she  stepped  outsideto  take  a  last  look  at  the  world  that,  as  it  turned  out,  she  wouldn't  be  leaving  for  another  sixty-seven  years.  The  view  was  terrific.  Two  thousand  feet  below  lay  theold  Ottoman  capital  of  Bursa:  it  looked  like  a  backgammon  board  spread  out  across  the  valley's  green  felt,  with  diamonds  of  red  roof  tile  within  diamonds  of  whitewash,  and  the  sultans'  tombs  stacked  up  like  bright  chips.  Back  in  1922,  automobile  traffic  didn't  clog  Inonii  Avenue.  Chairlifts  didn't  cut  swaths  into  43616e616461Olympus's  pine  forests.  Grimy  metallurgic  and  tex-  tile  plants  didn't  ring  the  city.  Bursa  looked-at  least  from  two  thousand  feet-as  it  had  for  the  past  six  centuries:  a  holy  city,  necropolis  of  the  Ottomans  and  center  of  the  silk  trade,  its  quiet,  de-  clining  streets  abloom  with  minarets  and  cypress  trees.  To  diagnose  my  grandmother's  heart  palpitations:  they  were  psychosomatic  symptoms  of  grief.  Her  parents  were  dead-killed  in  the  war  with  the  Turks.  The  Greek  Army,  encouraged  by  Brit-  ain  and  [REDACTED]  and  the  other  Allied  na-  tions,  had  invadedwestern  [REDACTED]  in  1919,  reclaiming  the  ancient  Greek  ter-  IV  the  late  summer  of  1922,  my  grand-     BY  JEFFREY  EUGENIDES  ritory  of  Asia  Minor.  After  years  of  fear-  ing  a  massacre,  the  people  of  Dermidas,  my  grandmother's  village,  had  emerged  from  hiding  on  the  mountain  into  the  safety  of  the  Megala  Idea-the  dream  of  Greater  [REDACTED].  It  was  now  Greek  troops  that  occupied  Bursa,  and  a  Greek  flag  that  flew  over  the  former  Ottoman  palace.  The  Turks  and  their  leader,  Mustafa  Kemal,  had  retreated  to  the  east.  For  the  first  time  in  their  lives,  the  Greeks  of  [REDACTED]  were  out  from  under  Turkish  rule,  no  longer  giaours  (&quot;infidel  dogs&quot;),  no  longer  forbidden  to  wear  bright  clothing  or  to  ride  horses  or  use  saddles.  No  Turkish  official  would  be  arriving  in  the  villages  to  inspect  the  year's  crop  of  young  boys,  carting  off  the  strongest,  the  most  well-  muscled,  to  serve  in  the  Janissaries.  Now,  when  the  village  men  took  silk  to  mar-  ket  in  Bursa,  they  were  free  Greeks,  in  a  free  Greek  city.  But  Desdemona,  par-  entless,  still  felt  imprisoned  by  the  past.  And  so  she  stood  on  the  mountain,  looking  down  at  the  emancipated  city,  and  felt  cheated  by  her  inability  to  feel  happy,  like  everybody  else.  For  the  greater  part  of  an  hour,  Des-  demona  had  been  trying  to  ignore  her  counter-intuitive  reactions  by  working  in  the  cocoonery.  She'd  come  out  the  backdoorof  the  house,  through  the  sweet-smelling  grape  arbor,  and  across  the  terraced  yard  into  the  low,  thatch-  roofed  hut.  The  silkworm  cocoonery  was  my  grandmother's  own  personal,  reeking  oasis.  The  acrid,  larval  smell  in-  side  didn't  bother  her.  All  around,  soft  white  silkworms  clung  to  bundled  mul-  berry  twigs.  Desdemona  watched  them  spinning  cocoons,  moving  their  heads  as  though  to  music.  She  forgot  about  the  world  outside,  its  changes  and  convul-  sions,  its  terrible  new  music  (which  is  about  to  be  sung  in  a  moment).  Instead,  she  heard  her  mother's  voice-Euphro-  syne  Tatakis  speaking  in  this  very  co-  coonery  years  ago,  elucidating  the  mys-  teries  of  silkworms.  &quot;To  have  good  silk,  you  have  to  be  pure,&quot;  she  used  to  tell  her  daughter.  &quot;The  silkworms  know  every-  thing.  You  can  always  tell  what  some-  body  is  up  to  by  the  way  their  silk  looks,&quot;  and  so  on,  Euphrosyne  giving  examples:  &quot;Helen  Simotas,  who's  always  lifting  her  skirt  for  everyone?  Have  you  seen  her  cocoons?  Each  one  has  a  stain  on  it,  for  every  man.  You  should  look  next  time.&quot;  Desdemona  still  couldn't  en-  tirely  disbelieve  her  mother's  morality  tales,  and  (because  of  the  dreams  she'd  been  having)  examined  the  cocoon  con-  stellations  for  signs  of  her  own  impu-  rity.  She  looked  for  other  things,  too,  because  her  mother  also  maintained  that  silkworms  reacted  to  historical  atrocities.  After  every  massacre,  even  ina  village  fifty  milesaway,  the  silkworms'  fila-  ments  had  turned  the  color  of  blood-  &quot;I've  seen  them  bleed  like  the  feet  of  Christos  himself,&quot;  her  mother  again-  and  Desdemona,  years  later,  remember-  ing,  checked  to  see  if  any  cocoons  had  turned  red.  She  picked  up  a  tray  and  shook  it;  she  picked  up  another,  and  it  was  then  that  she  felt  her  heart  stop,  squeeze  into  a  ball,  and  begin  punching  her  from  inside.  She  dropped  the  tray,  saw  her  tunic  flutter  from  interior  force,  and  understood  that  her  heart  operated  on  its  own  instructions.  So  my  yiayia  stood  looking  down  at  Bursa,  hoping  to  spot  a  visible  confir-  mation  of  her  invisible  dread.  And  then,  from  inside  the  house,  it  came,  but  not  a  sight,  a  sound:  her  brother,  Eleutherios,  hadbegun  to  sing.  In  badly  pronounced,  meaningless  English.  &quot;Ev'ry  morning,  ev'ry  evening,  ain't  we  got  fun,&quot;  Eleutherios  sang,  stand-  ing  before  the  bedroom  mirror  as  he  did  every  afternoon  about  this  time,  fas-  tening  the  new  celluloid  collar  to  the  new  white  shirt,  squeezing  a  dollop  of  hair  pomade  (smelling  of  limes)  into  his  palm  and  rubbing  it  into  his  new  Rudy  Vallee  haircut.  &quot;Inthe  mean-time,  in  between-time,  ain't  we  got  fun.&quot;  The  " b"song  meant  nothing  to  him,  but  the  melodywas  enough.  It  spoke  of  jazz-  age  frivolity,  gin  highballs,  cigarette  girls;  it  made  him  slick  his  hair  back  with  panache  (while  for  Desdemona  the  song  meant  only  that  music  Elew-  therios  picks  up  down  in  the  city,  that  American  music  ..  .)  as  he  put  on  his  new  striped  suit  and  foldedthered  pocket  handkerchief  that  matched  the  necktie  he'd  just  learned  to  tie;  and  Desdemona  felt  funny  inside,  especially  her  stomach,  which  was  roiled  by  complicated  emotions  sadness,  anger,  and  some-  thing  she  couldn't  name,  which  hurt  most  of  all.  &quot;The  rent's  unpaid,  dear,  we  haven't  a  car,&quot;  Eleuthe-  rios  crooned,  but  Desde-  mona  now  heard  hermother,  her  last  words,  spoken  just  before  shedied  from  a  Turk-  ish  soldier's  bullet:  &quot;Take  care  of  Eleutherios.  Prom-  ise  me.  Find  him  a  wife!&quot;  and  Desdemona,  through  her  tears,  replying,  &quot;I  prom-  ise.  I  promise.&quot;  These  voices  were  all  still  speaking  at  once  in  Desdemona's  head  as  she  crossed  the  yard  to  go  into  the  house.  She  came  through  the  small  kitchen,  where  she  had  din-  ner  cooking  (for  one),  and  marched  straight  into  the  bedroom  she  shared  with  her  brother.  He  was  still  sing-  ing  (&quot;Not  much  money,  Oh!  but  honey&quot;),  fixing  his  cuff-  links,  parting  his  hair,  then  looking  up  (&quot;Ain't  we  got&quot;)  and  seeing  his  sister  (&quot;fun&quot;)  fell  silent.  For  a  minute,  the  mirror  held  their  two  faces.  Eleutherios  was  a  year  youn-  ger  than  Desdemona,  and  she  often  wondered  how  she  had  survived  the  first  twelve  months  without  him.  For  as  long  as  shecould  remember,  he'd  always  been  right  beside  her,  in  the  bed  they  shared  as  children,  pressing  his  bare  foot  to  the  Orthodox  cross  nailed  to  the  headboard;  and  later  on,  in  his  own  bed,  only  a  kilimaway.  At  night,  in  the  dark,  he  improvised  songs  for  her,  or  made  up  rhymes,  and  one  of  the  reasons  she  hated  his  new  American  music  was  that  he  sang  it  only  to  himself  in  the  mirror.  Desdemona  loved  her  brother  as  only  a  sister  growing  up  on  a  mountain  could  love  a  brother:  he  was  the  whole  enter-  tainment,  her  best  friend  and  confidant,  her  co-discoverer  of  secret  paths  and  hideaways.  The  emotional  sympathy    sheshared  with  Eleutherios  had  been  so  absolute  that  she  sometimes  forgot  they  were  separate  people.  She  was  so  accustomed  to  their  Siamese  shadow  springing  up  against  the  whitewashed  house  at  evening  that  when  she  en-  countered  her  solitary  shadow  it  seemed  cut  in  half.  When  adolescence  came  and,  with  it,  her  black  depressions,  she  felt  for  the  first  time  that  she  was  differ-  ent  from  her  brother,  weaker  but  more  discerning,  less  dependable  but  more  complex.  Peacetime  seemed  to  bechanging  everything.  In  the  last  month  Eleuthe-  83  rios  had  gone  down  to  Bursa  a  total  of  seventeen  times.  On  three  occasions  he'd  stayed  overnight  at  the  Cocoon  Inn,  across  from  the  Orhan  Gazi  Mosque.  He'd  left  one  morning  dressed  in  boots,  kneesocks,  breeches,  doulamas,  and  vest,  and  he  came  back  thefollowing  evening  in  the  striped  suit,  with  a  silk  scarf  tucked  into  his  collar,  like  an  opera  singer,  and  a  black  derby  on  his  head.  He'd  begun  to  teach  himself  French  from  a  small  plum-colored  phrase  book;  he'd  picked  up  new,  adult-  like  gestures,  putting  his  hands  in  his  pockets  and  rattling  change,  for  in-  stance,  or  doffing  his  cap.  When  shedid  the  laundry,  Desdemona  found  crum-  pled  notes  in  Eleutherios's  pockets,  scraps  covered  with  figures  being  added  and  subtracted.  My  grandmother,  whose  constitutional  thunder-  clouds  had  broken  out  into  full-fledged  cardiac  thunder,  looked  at  her  brother  as  she  had  once  looked  at  her  own  shadow,  and  felt  that  some-  thing  was  missing.  &quot;And  where  are  you  go-  ing  tonight  all  dressed  up?&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  down  to  the  Koza  Han.  To  sell  cocoons.&quot;  &quot;Again?  You  went  yesterday.&quot;  Eleutherios  ran  a  comb  through  his  hair,  parting  it  |_  on  the  right  side.  &quot;It's  the  season.&quot;  Desdemona  came  closer.  She  picked  up  his  hair  po-  made,  sniffed  it,  and  made  a  face.  &quot;What  do  you  want  down  there?&quot;  &quot;Me?  Nothing.&quot;  Sheexamined  her  brother  closely  and  heldouther  fist.  Automatically,  still  looking  in  the  mirror,  Eleutherios  made  a  fist,  too.  They  counted,  &quot;One,  two,  three  ...&quot;  &quot;Rock  crushes  lizard,  I  win,&quot;  Desde-  mona  said.  &quot;So  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;Tell  you  what?&quot;  &quot;Tell  me  what's  so  interesting  about  Bursa.&quot;  Eleutherios  combed  his  hair  forward,  back  again,  and  parted  it  on  the  left.  He  examined  the  change,  swivelling  his  " b"84  head.  &quot;Which  do  you  like  better?  Left  or  right?&quot;  &quot;Let  me  see,&quot;  Desdemona  leaned  back  to  make  her  appraisal.  She  raised  her  hand  delicately  to  Eleutherios's  hair-  and  mussed  it.  &quot;Hey!&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want  down  in  Bursa?&quot;  &quot;Leave  me  alone.&quot;  \xc2\xab'Tell  me!&quot;  &quot;What  do  I  want?&quot;  Eleutherios  said,  finally  exasperated.  &quot;What  do  you  think  I  want?&quot;&quot;  He  turned  toface  her.&quot;I  want  a  woman.&quot;  Desdemona  gripped  her  belly,  patted  her  heart.  She  took  two  steps  backward  and  examined  her  brother  anew.  The  idea  thatEleutherios,  who  shared  her  eyes  and  eyebrows,  who  slept  in  the  bed  beside  hers,  whose  pow/aks  she'd  seen  so  often  it  was  like  a  little  bird  to  her,  the  idea  that  this  brother  (and  that  pou/aki)  could  be  possessed  by  such  a  desire-  this  had  never  occurred  to  Desdemona.  It  made  her  angry.  Also,  I  suspect,  a  little  jealous.  Hadn't  she  made  a  nice  home  for  Eleutherios?  Didn't  she  cook  his  food?  And  sew  his  clothes?  And  take  care  of  him  when  he  was  sick?  And  if  he  had  to  be  filthy-minded  what  was  wrong  with  the  village  girls&quot;  Was  he  so  shame-  ful  that  he  had  to  go  down  to  the  city,  where  the  women  were  all  concubines  and  harem  girls?  She  knew,  she'd  heard  stories;  their  own  father  had  gone  there.  &quot;They've  got  two  hundred  women  for  one  man,  those  people,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  the  man,  the  Sultan?  He's  just  a  little  malaka  who  takes  baths  all  day.&quot;  Was  that  what  Eleutherios  wanted?  Per-  fumed  harlots?  Strumpets  who  did  all  kinds  of  nasty  business-she  didn't  even  want  to  think-&quot;With  this  one,  with  that  one,  with  animals  even,  yes,  it's  true!  Down  there,  as  long  as  someone  is  paying,  the  women  don't  care  who  puts  what  in  wherever.  What?  Am  I  embar-  rassing  you?  But  I'm  only  talking  the  way  Turkish  girls  do.  I'm  getting  you  ready  for  your  new  bride.&quot;  So,  in  my  imagination,  did  Desde-  mona  hold  forth.  &quot;What  is  wrong  with  a  nice  Greek  girl?  Eh?  You  have  to  have  some  boutana  with  veils?  Let  me  tell  you  something.  Do  you  know  why  those  Turkish  women  cover  their  faces?  Be- .  cause  no  one  can  stand  to  look  at  them!  Yes!  Ba  told  me  so  himself.  So  listen,  Eleutherios,  stay  where  you  are.  Marry  one  of  your  own  kind.&quot;  It  was  atthis  point  that  Eleutherios,  who  continued  recombing  his  hair  throughout  the  tirade,  called  his  sister's  attention  to  something  she  was  over-  looking.  &quot;Des,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;there  aren't  any  girls  in  this  village.&quot;  Which  was  pretty  much  the  case.  At  that  time,  the  population  of  Dermidas  numbered  only  fifty-seven,  slightly  less  than  half  of  whom  were  women.  Of  twenty-seven  females,  ten  were  middle-  aged  wives.  Eight  were  osteoporotic  widows.  Three  were  young  mothers,  each  with  a  daughter  in  diapers.  One  was  his  sister.  That  left  two  marriageable  girls.  Whom  Desdemona  now  rushed  to  nominate.  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED]  Kafkalis?  She's  a  nice  girl.  Or  Victoria  Pappas?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  smells,&quot;  said  Eleutherios.  &quot;And  Victoria  has  a  mustache  bigger  than  mine.  Please.  I  don't  want  to  share  my  razor  with  my  wife.&quot;  With  that,  he  put  down  his  comb.  &quot;Don't  wait  up,&quot;  he  said,  and  left  the  bedroom.  Eleutherios  was  gone.  His  footsteps  faded  away.  Desdemona's  heart  fluttered  once,  but  she  paid  no  attention.  &quot;I  don't  like  eating  alone!&quot;  she  shouted,  to  no  one.  The  wind  from  the  valley  had  picked  up,  as  it  did  every  afternoon.  It  blew  through  the  open  windows,  rattling  their  two  cups,  two  plates,  two  every-  thing.  It  rattled  the  latch  onDesde-  mona's  hope  chest.  Desdemona  picked  up  the  worry  beads  that  were  lying  on  top  and  slipped  them  through  her  fin-  gers  one  by  one,  exactly  as  her  mother  had  done,  and  her  mother  before  her,  and  her  mother  before  her,  performing  a  family  practice  of  precise,  codified,  thor-  ough  worrying.  As  the  beads  clicked  to-  gether  on  their  string,  Desdemona  gave  herself  up  to  them.  Eleu's  new  suit-  who  cleaned  it?  Me!  And  how  did  he  buy  the  suit?  With  my  cocoons!  Desde-  mona,  with  her  loose,  dark  hair,  her  sad  eyes,  her  face  of  a  girl  forced  to  growup  too  fast,  worried  with  her  beads,  as  had  all  the  Tatakis  women  before  her.  But  she  was  no  longer  counting  her  pains.  Instead,  the  beads  now  summoned  to  her  mind  images  in  a  magazine  hidden  in  the  rafters  over  her  head.  One  bead  was  a  hair  style.  The  next  bead  was  a  silk  slip.  The  next  was  a  black  brassiere.  My  grandmother,  you  see,  had  begun  to  matchmake.  IT  wasn'ta  matter  of  finding  the  right  girl.  It  was  a  matter  of  creating  her.  The  next  morning,  Desdemona  went  to  inspect  her  raw  materials.  [REDACTED]  Kaf-  kalis  and  Victoria  Pappas  lived  next  to  each  other,  which,  according  to  the  lay-  out  of  Dermidas,  meanton  top  of  each  other.  Desdemona  called  the  two  girls  out.  At  first  sight,  Desdemona  admit-  ted  that  Eleutherios  hadn't  been  exag-  gerating.  Above  Victoria  Pappas's  upper  lip  was  a  luxuriant  mustache.  And  Lu-  cille  Kafkalis,  plump  and  serene,  not  too  bright,  was  feeding  a  carrot  to  her  goat:  as  Desdemona  approached,  [REDACTED]  held  the  half-eaten  carrot  out,  as  though  of-  fering  it.  The  goat,  involved  in  its  own  mating  strategies,  lowered  its  head  and  urinated  into  its  own  face.  Desdemona  took  the  first  steps.  She  gave  [REDACTED]  a  bottle  of  perfume  and  showed  her  the  seven  places  where  her  pulse  would  spread  the  aroma:  behind  each  ear,  at  each  jugular,  behind  the  wrists  and  knees.  In  the  courtyard  of  the  Pappas  house,  she  sat  Victoria  on  a  stool  and  spread  a  thick  syrup  on  her  chin  and  sideburns.  Eleutherios,  meanwhile,  carrying  a  sack  of  cocoons,  had  reached  the  city.  He  crossed  the  tram  tracks,  came  down  Cumhuriyet  Caddesi,  and  walked  into  the  caravansary's  open  courtyard.  Inside,  around  the  aquamarine  fountain,  silk-  worm  cocoons  rose  like  a  heap  ofmarsh-  mallows.  Cocoons  pyramiding  in  mer-  chant  stalls.  Cocoons  foaming  from  baskets  on  the  backs  of  small  boys.  Co-  coons  tipping  brass  scales.  Cocoons  being  handled,  sniffed,  and  held  up  to  the  soft  evening  light.  Eleutherios  squeezed  through  the  narrow  path  that  had  been  shovelled  through  the  cascad-  ing  cocoons,  ducking  porters,  sidestep-  ping  carts  and  tea  trays,until,  at  a  stall  \xe2\x82\xac  that  was  just  closing  up,  he  found  his  \xc2\xa7  man,  opened  his  sack,  and  presented  his  $  five  cocoons.  &quot;I  was  coming  into  town,  so  I  brought  these.&quot;  The  merchant," b'   ' b"86  shaking  his  head,  paid  him,  and  then  Eleutherios  retreated  through  the  aisles  and  left  the  courtyard  to  do  what  he  had  really  come  for.  Watch  closely:  Eleutherios,  dressed  for  the  city,  derby  at  a  rakish  angle,  walks  down  the  sloping  streets  of  Bursa  and  passes  a  coffee  kiosk  but  doesn't  go  in.  The  proprietor  hails  him,  but  Eleu-  therios  only  waves  and  keeps  going.  He  passes  a  window  behind  whose  shut-  ters  a  woman's  voice  calls,  buthe  pays  no  attention.  He  passes  fruit  sellers  and  restaurants,  until  he  reaches  another  street  where-Desdemona  couldnever  have  guessed-he  enters  a  church.  More  pre-  cisely,  a  former  mosque,  its  minaret  torn  down  and  its  Koranic  inscriptions  re-  cently  plastered  over  to  provide  a  fresh  canvas  for  the  Christian  saints  that  are,  even  now,  being  painted  on  it.  Eleuthe-  rios  hands  a  coin  to  theold  lady  selling  candles,  lights  one,  and  stands  it  upright  in  sand.  He  takes  a  seat  ina  back  pew.  His  prayer  begins  in  the  usual  way,  with  the  words  he  learned  as  a  child-Kyrie  eleison,  Kyrie  eleison,  Kyrie  eleison,  I  am  not  worthy  to  come  before  thy  throne.  But  he  soon  veers  off:  I  don't  know  why  I  feel  like  this,  it's  not  natural.  ...  And  then  he  turns  a  little  accusatory-  You  made  me  this  way,  I  didn't  ask  to  think  things  like-  and,  finally,  becomes  abject,  praying,  Give  me  strength,  Christos,  don't  let  me  be  like  this,  if  she  even  knew  .  .  .  eyes  squeezed  shut,  hands  bending  the  derby's  brim,  the  words  drifting  up  with  the  incense  toward  a  Christ  who  scrutinizes  him  with  one  eye.  He  prayed  for  five  minutes.  Then  he  came  out,  replaced  his  hat  on  his  head,  and  rattled  the  change  in  his  pockets.  He  climbed  back  up  the  sloping  streets  and,  this  time  (his  heart  unburdened),  stopped  at  all  the  places  he'd  resisted  on  his  way  down.  He  stepped  into  a  kiosk  for  coffee  and  a  smoke  (he  was  trying  out  cigarettes).  He  went  to  a  caf\xc3\xa9  for  a  glass  of  ouzo.  The  backgammon  players  shouted,  &quot;Ela!  Valentino!&quot;  He  let  him-  self  get  cajoled  into  playing,  just  one  game,  then  lost  and  had  to  go  double  or  nothing.  (The  runic  calculations  Desde-  mona  had  found  in  Eleutherios's  pants  pockets  were  gambling  debts.)  The  night  wore  on.  The  ouzo  kept  flowing,  and  by  midnight  Eleutherios  had  come  back  out  into  the  streets,  searching  for  shut-  ters  behind  which  avoice  had  called.  A  door  opens.  A  face  smiles,  an  arm  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  22  &amp;  29,  1997  beckons,  chiming  bracelets.  Eleutherios,  sharing  a  sofa  with  three  Greek  soldiers,  looks  across  an  overstuffed  parlor  at  seven  plump,  perfumed  women  (phono-  graph  playing  &quot;Ev'ry  morning,  ev'ry  eve-  ning  ..  .&quot;);  and,  as  the  madam  says  &quot;Any-  one  you  like,&quot;  his  eyes  pass  over  the  blond,  blue-eyed  Circassian,  and  the  Armenian  girl  suggestively  eating  an  in-  comparable  Bursa  peach,  and  the  Mon-  golian  with  the  blunt  bangs,  to  fix  on  a  peasant  girl  at  the  end  of  the  far  couch,  a  sad-eyed  girl  with  perfect  skin  and  black  hair  spilling  from  her  kerchief.  (\xc2\xabThere's  a  scabbard  for  every  dagger,&quot;  the  madam  says,  in  Turkish,  as  the  whores  laugh.)  Eleutherios  doesn't  yet  understand  why  he's  so  attracted  to  her.  He  stands,  smooths  his  jacket,  holds  out  his  hand  toward  his  choice,  and  it's  only  as  they  reach  the  room,  with  its  unclean  sheets,  its  blood-colored  oil  lamp,  its  smell  of  incense  and  dirty  feet,  that  he  begins  to  notice  the  similarities-the  large  breasts  and  the  slim  waist,  the  soft  dimpling  of  flesh  over  the  knees,  the  hair  cascading  down  to  the  defenseless  coccyx-even  though  he  later  won't  hear  the  name  he  cries  out  at  the  climax  of  his  transports,  or  even  the  whore's  re-  sponse:  &quot;I'm  Irini.  Desdemona's  the  girl  down  the  hall.&quot;  In  the  morning,  Eleutherios,  guilty  and  depressed,  left  the  city  and  climbed  back  up  the  mountain  to  Dermidas.  His  pockets  (empty)  made  no  sound.  Hung-  over  and  feverish,  he  told  himself  that  his  sister  was  right:  it  was  time  for  him  to  getmarried.  He  would  marry  [REDACTED],  or  Victoria.  He  would  have  children  and  stop  going  down  to  Bursa.  He'd  change.  He  nodded  his  head;  he  fixed  his  hat.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  JTHILE  just  above,  on  43616e616461Olym-  pus,  Desdemona  was  giving  her  two  beginners  finishing  lessons.  She  taught  the  girls  every  artifice  she'd  learned  from  the  only  beauty  magazine  in  her  possession,  a  tattered  catalogue  called  Lingerie  Parisienne,  which  first  her  father  and  now  Desdemona  herself  kept  hid-  den  in  the  rafters-thirty-two  pages  of  French  models  wearing  brassieres,  cor-  sets,  and  garter  belts.  Her  father  used  to  pore  over  it  at  night,  thinking  everyone  was  asleep.  Now,  when  Eleutherios  was  sleeping,  Desdemona  pored  over  the  cat-  alogue,  memorizing  the  pictures  so  that  shecould  re-create  them  the  next  day.  She  instructed  [REDACTED]  and  Victoria  to  stop  by  every  afternoon.  The  girls  ar-  rived  under  flimsy  pretexts  (they'd  run  out  of  olive  oil,  feta,  coffee).  They  wore  a  different  dress  each  time.  They  also  changed  their  hair  styles,  walks,  and  jewelry.  The  two  drab  girls  multiplied  themselves  into  a  small  city  of  women,  each  with  a  signature  laugh,  a  personal  gemstone,  a  favorite  song  hummed  as  she  floated  around  the  house,  appearing  and  disappearing  at  the  doorway.  After  two  weeks,  Desdemona  went  out  to  the  arbor  in  the  afternoon  and  found  Eleu-  therios  neglecting  his  French.  He  had  a  blank  look  on  his  face.  &quot;What  are  you  still  doing  here?  Get  going.  Go  down  to  Bursa.  I'll  pack  some  food  for  you.  Go  find  a  Turkish  wife.  But  be  sureto  look  under  her  mask  in  case  she  has  a  mus-  tache  like  Victoria's.&quot;  &quot;Funny  you  should  mention  that,&quot;  Eleutherios  said.  &quot;Have  you  noticed?  [REDACTED]  doesn't  have  a  mustache  anymore.  I  don't  know  what  happened.  And  do  you  know  what  else?&quot;  he  added,  getting  up  now,  smiling.  &quot;Even  [REDACTED]'s  start-  ing  to  smell  O.K.  Every  time  she  comes  over,  I  smell  flowers.&quot;  He  came  up  close  to  Desdemona.  &quot;You  were  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  most  beautiful  girls  in  the  world  are  right  here  in  this  village.&quot;  She  looked  up  into  his  eyes.  &quot;You  think  so?&quot;  &quot;Sometimes  you  don't  even  notice  what's  right  under  your  nose.&quot;  They  stoodlooking  at  each  other,  as  Desdemona's  stomach  began  to  feel  funny  again,  way  deep  down.  And  to  ex-  plain  the  sensation  I  have  to  tell  you  an-  other  story.  In  his  presidential  address  at  the  annual  convention  of  the  Society  for  the  Scientific  Study  of  Sex  in  1980  (held  that  year  in  Mazatlan  with  lots  of  suggestive  pinatas),  Dr.  Peter  Luce  lec-  tured  on  the  sexological  concept  of  lim-  erence,  coined  by  D.  Tennov,  in  1979.  The  word  itself  means  nothing;  Tennov  made  it  up  to  avoid  any  etymological  as-  sociations.  The  state  of  limerence,  how-  ever,  is  well  known.  It  denotes  that  first  fever  of  human  pair-bonding.  It  causes  giddiness,  elation,  an  inner  tickling  of  the  chest  wall,  an  urge  to  climb  abal-  cony  on  theladder  of  the  beloved's  hair.  Limerence  is  that  initial  drugged  and  happy  bedtime,  when  you  sniff  your  lover  like  a  scented  poppy  for  hours  run-  ning.  (It  lasts,  Luce  explained,  an  aver-  age  of  two  years,  tops.)  And  so,  contrary  to  what  Miss  Theodakis  taught  us  in  " b"JEFFREY  EUGENIDES  Greek  school-that  love  is  always  sav-  age  and  transformative;  for  instance,  what  happened  to  [REDACTED]  with  that  bull-and  in  keeping  with  the  method-  ology  of  the  clinic,  I'll  define  what  Des-  demona  felt  that  day  as  the  stirrings  of  limerence.  Let  the  word  mean  just  that;  let  it  refer  to  aspurt  of  sex  hormones,  rather  than  to  Eros's  shaft.  Still,  I  have  to  insist:  to  Desdemona  it  felt  like  a  lake  of  warmth  flooding  up  from  her  ab-  domen  and  across  her  chest.  It  spread  like  the  hundred-and-eighty-proof,  fi-  ery  diaspora  of  a  mint-green  Finnish  liqueur.  With  the  pumping  of  two  effi-  cient  glands  in  her  neck,  it  heated  her  face.  And  then  the  warmth  got  other  ideas  and  started  spreading  intoplaces  that  a  girl  like  Desdemona  didn't  allow  it  to  go,  and  she  broke  off  the  stare  and  turned  away.  She  walked  to  the  window,  leaving  the  limerence  behind,  and  the  breeze  from  the  valley  cooled  her  down.  &quot;I  will  speak  to  the  girls'  parents,&quot;  she  said  (an  old  phrase  in  a  young  voice).  &quot;Then  you  must  go  pay  court.&quot;  THE  next  night,  the  moon,  like  the  country's  fallen  flag,  was  a  cres-  cent.  Down  in  Bursa,  the  Greek  troops  scrounged  for  food,caroused,  and  shot  up  another  mosque.  In  Angora,  in  the  east,  Mustafa  Kemal  informed  the  news-  papers  that  he  would  be  having  tea  at  a  villa  in  Chankaya,  while  in  actuality  he'd  left  for  his  headquarters  in  the  field.  Under  cover  of  night,  his  Turkish  troops  moved  not  north  toward  Eskigehir,  where  everyone  expected  the  Turkish  counterattack,  but  to  the  heavily  forti-  fied  city  of  Afyon,  in  the  south.  (At  Es-  kigehit,  the  few  Turkish  troops  that  were  there  lit  campfires  to  exaggerate  their  strength.)  And,  amid  these  deployments,  Eleutherios  Tatakis,  bearing  two  cor-  sages,  stepped  out  the  front  door  of  his  house,  grasped  the  rope  bannister,  and  began  his  descent  to  where  Victoria  Pappas  lived.  It  was  an  event  on  the  level  of  a  birth  or  a  death.  Each  of  the  fifty-seven  people  of  Dermidas  had  heard  about  Eleutherios's  upcoming  visits,  and  the  old  widows,  the  married  women,  the  young  mothers,  as  well  as  theold  men,  .  were  waiting  to  see  which  girl  he  would  9  choose.  Victoria  Pappas  stood  half  in  and  Z  half  out  of  the  light,  the  shading  across  $  her  body  exactly  that  of  the  photograph " b"  on  page  8  of  Lingerie  Parisienne.  Desde-  mona  (costume  lady,  stage  manager,  and  director,  all  in  one)  had  pinned  up  Vic-  toria's  hair,  letting  ringlets  fall  over  her  forehead  and  warning  her  to  keep  her  biggish  nose  in  shadow.  Perfumed,  de-  pilated,  moist  with  emollients,  wearing  koh1  around  her  eyes,  Victoria  let  Eleu-  therios  look  upon  her.  She  felt  the  heat  of  his  gaze.  She  heard  his  heavy  breath-  ing,  the  small  squeaks  from  his  dry  throat  as  he  tried  to  speak,  and  then  the  sounds  of  his  feet  coming  toward  her,  and  she  turned,  smiling  as  Desdemona  had  taught  her  to  do.  But  she  was  so  distracted  by  the  effort  to  plump  her  lower  lip  into  a  raspberry  while  leaving  a  sliver  of  teeth  exposed  and  dimpling  her  cheeks  that  she  didn't  realize  the  foot-  steps  weren't  approaching  but  retreating;  and  she  turned  tosee  that  Eleutherios  Tatakis,  the  only  eligible  bachelor  in  town,  had  taken  off.  While  back  at  home  Desdemona  opened  her  hope  chest  with  the  Vic-  torian  lady  painted  on  the  lid.  She  reached  in  and  pulled  outher  corset.  Her  mother  had  given  it  to  her  years  ago,  in  expectation  of  her  wedding  night,  saying,  &quot;I  hope  you  fill  this  out  someday.&quot;  Desdemona  held  the  strange,  complicated  garment  against  her  in  front  of  the  mirror.  Down  went  her  kneesocks,  hergray  underwear.  Down  went  her  high-waisted  skirt,  her  drab,  high-collared  tunic.  Sheshook  off  her  kerchief  so  that  her  dark  hair  fell  over  her  bare  shoulders.  The  corset  was  made  of  white  silk.  As  she  put  it  on,  Desdemona  felt  as  though  she  were  spinning  in  her  own  cocoon,  awaiting  metamorphosis.  But  when  she  looked  in  the  mirror  she  caught  herself.  It  was  no  use.  She  would  never  get  married.  Eleutherios  would  come  back  tonight  having  made  his  choice  of  bride,  and  then  he  would  move  in  with  her,  would  build  a  new  house,  another  cell  in  the  hive.  She  would  stay  where  she  was,  clicking  her  beads  and  growing  even  older  than  she  already  felt.  A  dog  howled.  Someone  in  the  village  kicked  over  a  bundleof  sticks  and  cursed.  And  Desdemona  wept  si-  lently  because  she  was  going  to  spend  the  rest  of  her  days  counting  worries  that  never  went  away.  In  the  meantime,  [REDACTED]  Kafkalis  was  standing  exactly  as  she'd  been  told,  half  in  and  half  out  of  the  light,  wearing  a  white  hat  sashed  with  glass  cherries,  a  mantilla  overbare  shoulders,  a  bright-  green  d\xc3\xa9collet\xc3\xa9  dress,  and  high  heels,  in  which  she  didn't  move  for  fear  of  falling.  Her  fat  mother  waddled  in,  grinning  and  shouting,  &quot;Ela!  Here  he  comes!  Even  oneminute  he  couldn't  stay  with  Victoria!&quot;  But  already  Eleutherios  could  smell  the  goat,  despite  the  perfume.  He  had  just  entered  the  lowdoorway  of  the  Kaf-  kalis  house.  [REDACTED]'s  father  welcomed  him,  giving  him  a  double  25rezo,  and  then  said,  &quot;We'll  leave  you  two  alone.  To  get  acquainted.&quot;  The  parents  left.  It  was  dim  in  the  room.  Eleutherios  turned  ..  .  and  dropped  another  corsage.  While  Desdemona,  weeping,  takes  off  her  corset,  folds  it  back  up,  and  re-  turns  it  to  the  hope  chest.  She  throws  herself  on  Eleutherios's  bed  to  continue  crying.  The  pillow  smells  of  his  lime  po-  made  and  she  breathes  it  in,  crying  and  sobbing,  until,  drugged  by  weeping's  opiates,  she  falls  asleep.  She  dreams  the  dream  she's  been  having  lately.  In  the  dream  everything's  the  way  it  used  to  be.  She  and  Eleutherios  are  children  again  (except  they  have  adult  bodies).  They're  lying  in  the  same  bed  (except  it's  their  parents'  bed).  They  shift  their  limbs  in  sleep  (except  it  feels  extremely  nice,  how  they  shift,  and  the  bed  is  wet)  ...  at  which  point  Desdemona  wakes  up.  Her  face  is  hot.  Her  stomach  feels  funny,  way  way  down,  and  she  can  almost  name  the  feeling  now.  AI  sit  here,  thinking  E.  O.  Wilson  thoughts.  For  instance,  was  it  love  or  reproduction?  Chance  or  destiny?  Crime  or  nature  at  work?  Maybe  the  gene  that  Desdemona  and  Eleutherios  shared,  the  Tatakis  gene,  contained  an  override,  insuring  its  expression  against  all  taboo,  which  would  explain  Desde-  mona's  tears  and  Eleutherios's  taste  in  prostitutes.  It  wasn'tfondness,  not  even  admiration,  but  only  a  need  that  nei-  ther  of  them  understood  for  this  new  thing  to  enter  the  world.  It's  the  heart's  rigged  game.  And  also:  why  do  I  see  these  things?  Is  my  photographic  ge-  netic  memory  inherited,  too?  Because  I  can  see  everything-Desdemona's  shining  cheeks,  for  instance,  and  the  grapes  outside  vibrating  as  ominously  as  mood  music-and  I  even  feel  a  little  " b"choked  up  myself,  as  you  would,  too,  if  you  could  witness  the  contingencies  of  your  own  existence  falling  into  place;  but  I  can't  explain  this  business  of  falling  in  love,  no  more  than  Desde-  mona  or  Eleutherios  could  have,  no  more  than  any  of  us  can;  I  can't  separate  the  hormonal  from  what  feels  divine,  and  maybe  I  cling  to  the  God  stuff  out  of  some  altruism  hardwired  to  preserve  the  species;  I  can't  say.  I  try  to  go  back  in  my  mind,  to  a  time  before  genetics,  before  everyone  was  in  the  habit  of  say-  ing  about  everything,  &quot;It's  in  the  genes.&quot;  A  time  before  our  present  freedom,  and  so  much  freer!  Desdemona  had  no  idea  what  was  happening.  She  didn't  envi-  sion  her  insides  as  a  vast  computer  code,  all  ones  and  zeros,  an  infinity  of  sequences,  anyone  of  which  might  contain  a  bug.  Now  we  know  we  carry  this  map  of  ourselves  around.  Even  as  we  stand  on  a  street  corner,  it  dictates  our  destiny.  It  brings  onto  our  faces  the  same  wrinkles  and  age  spots  our  par-  ents  had.  It  makes  us  sniff  in  idiosyn-  cratic,  recognizable  family  ways.  Genes  embedded  so  deep  they  control  our  eye  muscles,  sothat  two  sisters  have  the  same  way  of  blinking,  and  twin  boys  tend  to  dribble  in  unison.  I  feel  myself  sometimes,  in  anxious  moods,  playing  with  the  cartilage  of  my  nose  exactly  as  my  brothers  Theo  and  Nicholas  do.  Our  lungs,  formed  from  the  same  in-  structions,  press  air  out  in  similar  tones  and  decibels.  And  this  can  be  extrapo-  lated  backward  in  time,sothat  when  I  speak  Desdemona  speaks,  too.  She's  writing  these  words  now.  Desdemona,  who  had  no  idea  of  the  army  inside  her,  carrying  out  its  million  orders,  or  of  the  one  soldier  who  disobeyed,  going  AWOL  ...  ...  Running  like  Eleutherios  away  from  [REDACTED]  Kafkalis  and  back  to  his  sister.  Desdemona  heard  his  feet  hurry-  ing  up  the  steps  and  put  a  smile  on  as  he  came  through  the  door.  &quot;So,  which  one  did  you  choose?&quot;  Eleutherios,  inspecting  his  sister,  said  nothing.  He  hadn't  shared  a  bedroom  with  her  all  his  life  not  to  be  able  to  tell  when  she'd  been  crying.  Her  hair  was  down,  covering  most  of  her  face,  but  the  eyesthat  looked  up  at  him  were  as  fa-  miliar  as  his  own.  &quot;Neither,&quot;  he  said.  At  that,  Desdemona  felt  tremen-  dous  happiness.  But  she  said,  &quot;Shame  on  you.  You  have  to  choose.&quot;  &quot;Those  girls  look  like  a  couple  of  Turkish  whores.&quot;  &quot;Eleutherios!&quot;  &quot;It's  true.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  want  to  marry  them?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;You  have  to.&quot;  She  held  out  her  fist.  &quot;If  I  win,  youmarry  [REDACTED].&quot;  Eleuthe-  rios,  who  could  never  resist  a  bet,  made  a  fist  himself.  &quot;One,  two,  three  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;Axe  breaks  rock,&quot;  Eleutherios  said.  &quot;I  win.&quot;  &quot;Again,&quot;  said  Desdemona.  &quot;If  I  win,  you  marry  [REDACTED].  One,  two,  three  ..  .&quot;  &quot;Lizard  eats  axe.  I  win  again!  Good-  bye  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Then  who  will  you  marry?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said,  taking  her  hands  and  looking  down  at  her.  &quot;How  about  you?&quot;  &quot;Too  bad  I'm  your  sister.&quot;  &quot;You're  not  only  my  sister.  You're  my  second  cousin,  too.  Second  cousins  can  marry.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou're  crazy,  Eleutherios.&quot;  &quot;This  way  will  be  easier.  I  won't  have  to  move  out  my  things.&quot;  Joking  but  not  joking,  letting  the  words  come  out  into  the  open  under  the  pretense  that  they  weren't  being  serious,  Desdemona  and  Eleutherios  embraced.  At  first,  they  just  hugged  in  the  standard  way,  but  after  ten  seconds  the  hug  began  to  change;  certain  positions  of  the  hands  and  strokings  of  the  fingers  weren't  the  usual  displays  of  sibling  affection,  and  thesethings  constituted  a  language  of  their  own,  an-  nounced  a  whole  new  mes-  sage  silently  in  the  dark  yard.  Eleutherios  began  waltzing  Desdemona  around  Euro-  pean  style;  he  waltzed  her  outside,  across  the  yard,  over  to  theco-  coonery  and  back  under  the  grape  arbor,  and  she  laughed  and  coveredher  mouth  with  her  hand.  &quot;You're  a  good  dancer,  cousin,&quot;  she  said,  and  her  heart  jumped  again,  making  her  think  she  might  die  right  then  and  there  in  Eleutherios's  arms,  butof  course  she  didn't;  they  danced  on.  And  let's  not  forget  where  they  were  dancing,  in  Dermidas,  that  mountain  village  where  cousins  married  cousins  and  uncles  sometimes  married  nieces;  so  that  as  they  danced  they  began  to  hold  each  other  more  tightly,  stopped  joking,  and  then  just  danced  to-  gether,  as  a  man  and  a  woman,  in  lonely     89  and  pressing  circumstances,  might  some-  times  do.  And  in  the  middleof  this,  before  anything  had  been  said  outrightor  any  decisions  had  beenmade,  right  then,  mid-waltz,  they  heard  explosions  in  the  distance,  and  looked  down  to  see,  in  firelight,  the  Greek  Army  in  full  retreat.  HE  Megala  Idea,  the  brief  dream  of  Greater  [REDACTED],  had  come  to  an  end.  The  Turks  had  captured  Afyon.  The  Greek  Army,  beaten,  was  fleeing  toward  the  sea.  In  retreat,  soldiers  were  setting  fire  to  everything  in  their  path.  Desdemona  and  Eleutherios,  the  next  morning,  stood  on  the  mountainside  and  surveyed  the  devastation.  Black  smoke  rose  for  miles  across  the  valley.  Every  village,  every  field,  every  tree  was  aflame.  Eleutherios  and  Desdemona-my  grandparents-left  Dermidas  on  Sep-  tember  22,  1922,  for  [REDACTED],  on  the  Aegean  coast.  They  left  on  foot,  carrying  three  suitcases  roped  shut,  and  a  silk-  worm  box  with  a  hundred  and  nineteen  silkworm  eggs  wrapped  in  a  white  cloth.  The  paper  scraps  in  Eleutherios's  pock-  ets  were  now  not  gambling  debts  (those  he  left  behind,  never  to  be  repaid)  but  sketchy  forwarding  addresses:  &quot;D.  M.  Tatakis,  Flatbush,  [REDACTED],  U.S.A.&quot;  Or  &quot;George  Pappasdiamondoupolis,  c/o  cousin  Yiannis,  [REDACTED]  Queens,  America.&quot;  Or  &quot;Peter  Aristos,  Athens  or  maybe  Thessaloniki  depending.&quot;  Over  a  single  week,  the  fifty-  seven  citizens  of  Dermidas  packed  up  their  belongings  and  set  out  for  relatives  in  Amer-  ica  or  in  [REDACTED].  By  nightfall,  two  centuries  of  Tatakises,  Pappases,  and  Aristoses  on  43616e616461Olympus  had  come  to  an  end.  Before  leaving,  Desdemona  walked  out  into  the  yard  and  crossed  herself  in  the  Or-  thodox  fashion,  leading  with  the  thumb.  She  said  her  goodbyes:  to  the  powdery,  rotting  smell  of  the  cocoonery  and  to  the  mulberry  trees  lined  along  the  wall,  to  the  impossible  steps  she'd  never  have  to  climb  again,  and  to  this  feeling  of  living  above  the  world,  too.  She  went  inside  the  cocoonery  to  look  at  her  silkworms  for  the  last  time.  They  had  all  stopped  spin-  ning,  in  a  political  protest.  She  reached  up,  plucked  a  cocoon  from  a  mulberry  twig,  and  put  it  in  her  tunic  pocket.  \xc2\xa2  (This  is  the  first  partof  a  two-part  story.)  "