HE  [REDACTED]  Museum  is  square.  And  cold.  But  it's  got  the  best  collection  of  Giacomettis  I've  ever  seen.  They're  pretty  sad,  these  sculp-  tures  by  the  Swiss  master:  old  patinated-  bronze  figures-attenuated,  contrite,  their  arms  fused  to  their  bodies.  Restricted,  those  arms  rob  the  body  of  freedom,  turn  the  figures  into  prisoners  chained  to  the  artist's  fancy.  Of  all  the  pieces  in  that  museum,  the  saddest  is  a  skinny  but  enormous  dog  mounted  on  a  base  that  could  be  wood  or  marble,  I  don't  re-  member  which.  It's  the  famous  Gia-  cometti  dog  reproduced  on  postcards  that  have  been  sent  all  over  the  planet.  I  didn't  look  at  it  for  long  because  I  like  my  animals  alive,  especially  dogs.  But  Wolfgang  did.  Wolfgang  looked  at  it  carefully  and  then  said,  &quot;Let's  go  down-  stairs  and  have  a  drink.  I'm  going  to  buy  a  postcard  of  Giacometti's  dog.&quot;  In  the  cafeteria,  I  opened  a  diet  Coca-  Cola  and  watched  as  Wolfgang  hurried  off  to  get  it.  &quot;This  postcard,&quot;  he  told  me  when  he  returned,  &quot;you're  going  to  take  it  back  to  43756261  and  deliver  it  to  Mio-  svatis,  my  black  love,  who  lives  on  Tro-  cadero  Street.  She's  a  very  beautiful  and  tender  woman.  Do  you  mind?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,  Wolfgang.  I  know  your  sweethearts  alwaysexpect  to  get  something  from  you.&quot;  [REDACTED]  is  a  gray  city,  an  untouched  card-  board  stage  set  with  a  river  and  bridges  like  the  ones  in  Leningrad,  with  ice-  cream  and  peanut  venders  and  violet,  breasted  pigeons  that  alight  on  your  shoul-  der  and  eat  from  the  palm  of  your  hand,  just  like  in  a  Vittorio  De  Sica  movie.  In  the  summertime,  [REDACTED]  opens  up  like  a  music  box,  but  in  winter  it's  as  sad  as  a  cenotaph.  Wolfgang  and  I  walked  over  the  bridges,  through  the  city,  along  the  narrow  medi-  eval  streets.  We  visited  cafés  where  Tris-  tan  Tzara,  Lenin,  and  Thomas  Mann  had  sat  to  contemplate  those  same  steel  skies.     BY  MIGUEL  BARNET  In  one  of  the  cafés,  Wolfgang  wrote  up  the  card  I  was  to  take  to  43756261.  &quot;I'm  called  Juanito  over  there,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;because  my  real  name  is  so  strange.&quot;  Then,  sitting  beside  me,  he  wrote:  Dear  Miosvatis-This  skinny  sad  dog  is  what  I'm  like  here  in  [REDACTED]  without  you.  Soon  we'll  meet  in  43756261  and  I'll  be  a  happy  dog  again.  I'll  be  your  puppy.  All  my  love,  Juanito.  I  spilled  my  black-currant  ice  cream  on  my  trousers,  but  so  what?  It  was  out  of  keeping  with  the  Heineken  Wolf-  gang  was  drinking,  as  we  sat  on  a  bench  facing  the  river.  An  overcast  late-summer  sky  made  our  conversation  more  in-  timate.  We  talked  about  43756261  as  al-  ways,  about  the  future,  about  the  city  of  Dada;  we  saw  a  black  barge  loaded  with  Japanese  tourists,  and  we  were  glad  to  be  together  again,  my  friend  Wolf-  gang-I  mean,  Juanito-and  I  ...  set-  ting  the  world  to  rights  while  the  tour-  ists  photographed  the  bridge  and  the  pigeons;  maybe  we  even  appeared  in  the  photograph.  &quot;We're  going  to  buy  some  shoes  for  your  mama,&quot;  Wolfgang  said.  &quot;Tell  her  the  German  sends  them.  And  then  we're  going  to  buy  some  perfume  for  Mio-  svatis,  and  a  blue  Swatch-blue  will  go  well  with  her  skin.&quot;  [REDACTED]  is  elegant.  It's  not  a  city  where  the  crowded  rush  of  consumer  culture  presses  up  against  you.  You  shop  in  peace,  and  nobody  comes  along  to  shove  merchandise  in  your  face.  We  bought  the  shoes,  perfume  by  Giorgio,  and  a  watch  with  ablue  wristband  and  a  kalei-  doscopic  face.  Wolfgang  and  I  said  our  goodbyes  until  we'd  meet  again  in  43756261.  HE  next  morning,  I  took  the  train  to  [REDACTED].  I  crossed  the  loveliest  lakes  in  Europe  with  the  postcard,  the  Giorgio  per-  fume,  and  the  Swatch  in  my  leather  brief  case.  Mother's  shoes  travelled  in  my  luggage.  Juanito  came  along  tosay  farewell  at  the  station,  but  first  we  had  mint  tea  in  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  fanciest  pastry  shops.  During  the  following  month,  I  trot,  ted  all  over  [REDACTED]  with  these  things  in  my  bag  for  fear  that  someone  would  steal  them  or  I'd  lose  them  in  oneof  the  houses  where  I  slept.  In  [REDACTED],  the  whole  story  seemed  unreal.  [REDACTED]  is  not  made  of  cardboard:  it's  a  gray  elephant  that  breathes  with  exuberance.  The  watch  was  a  little  more  expensive  in  the  [REDACTED]  stores  than  in  [REDACTED],  but  not  the  per-  fume;  that  we  could  have  bought  cheaper  at  any  counter  in  the  Galeries  Lafayette  or  La  Samaritaine.  I  sent  Wolfgang  a  card-a  lovely  photo  by  Man  Ray  of  Marcel  Proust  on  his  deathbed-and  I  assured  him  that  the  perfume,  like  the  watch  and  his  postcard,  were  safely  stowed  in  the  leather  bag  that  never  left  my  side.  Miosvatis  became  an  obsession,  or,  rather,  a  talisman  protected  by  a  demi-  urge.  Whenever  I  opened  my  bag  and  saw  the  card,  the  watch,  and  the  per-  fume,  I  got  an  odd  feeling:  I  wanted  to  go  to  43756261  immediately  and  meet  the  object  of  Wolfgang's  passion.  I  didn't  want  to  take  the  things  out  of  my  bag.  It  was  asif  my  city,  the  barrio  Colon  where  she  lived,  and  the  idyllic  Miosvatis  herself  were  all  very  close  to  me.  Sometimes  I  felt  this  was  the  only  real  thing  I  possessed,  my  strongest  tie  to  the  world.  Flying  back  in  an  Iberia  DC-10,  I  wondered  whether  the  customs  offi-  cer  at  José  Marti  Airport  would  ask  me  to  account  for  the  blue  watch.  No!  Anything  but  give  up  the  watch  that  Juanito  had  bought  for  his  beloved.  But  since  my  suitcase  was  small  and  I  was  carrying  all  my  books  and  choco-  lates  in  my  shoulder  bag,  no  one  asked  me  to  account  for  anything,  and  the  little  watch  entered  43756261  duty-free,  pretty  and  glowing  with  its  wrist-  band  of  translucent  turquoise  blue  shin-  ing  just  as  it  had  in  the  Swiss  show-  case-the  chimerical  faraway  dream  of  Miosvatis.  As  I  got  off  the  plane,  even  before  I'd  set  foot  on  the  tarmac,  the  humidity  steamed  up  my  glasses.  It's  43756261,  I  said  to  myself.  This  humidity  will  be  the  death  of  me  someday,  butthen  we  all  die,  after  all.  And,  full  of  happiness  and  new  stories  to  tell,  I  made  my  way  through  the  airport.  Outside  the  ter-  minal,  groups  of  rel-  atives  and  friends  of  the  passengers  leaned  against  the  barricades  and  with  a  mixture  of  joy  and  envy  watched  us  come  in  from  outside.  HE  first  thing  I  did  when  I  got  home  was  un-  pack  the  watch,  the  perfume,  and  the  postcard.  The  jet  lag,  six  hours'  worth,  kept  waking  me  up  that  night.  In  this  waking  dream,  Miosvatis  appeared  in  many  different  guises:  as  a  millwork-  er's  daughter,  a  schoolteacher,  a  taxi-  driver,  or  simply  a  hooker  who  had  opened  Wolfgang's  eyes  to  the  fact  that  she  was  not  just  an  ordinary  black  streetwalker.  The  only  thing  that  took  my  mind  off  my  friend's  sweetheart  was  my  ne-  glected  apartment.  The  towels  hung  crooked  on  the  towel  racks,  the  plants  had  dried  up,  and  the  dust  gave  the  place  an  air  of  faded  dereliction  that  kept  me  from  enjoying  my  happy  re-  9  turn  home.  When  I  picked  up  the  tele-  2  phone,  my  mother  informed  me  fear-  S  fully,  &quot;It's  been  broken  ever  since  you  zx  left.&quot;  I  resigned  myself.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  said.  3  &quot;Now  my  stay  in  Europe  will  be  ex-  z  tended,  since  without  a  telephone  I'm  3  simply  not  here,  I  am  no  one,  one  who  3  has  not  yet  arrived.&quot;  I  waited  patiently  for  the  telephone  to  §  be  repaired  and  then  I  made  a  few  calls  to  $  #  give  signs  of  life.  Then,  unable  to  hold  off  z  any  longer,  I  headed  for  the  barrio  Co-  e  lon  bearing  gifts,  like  one  of  the  Magi.  GILLMA  B  A  R  B  A  R  A  G  RUIZ  The  barrio  Colon  isn't  really  the  barrio  Colon  anymore.  Now  it's  one  more  barrio  of  43756261,  a  hive  of  people  sitting  along  the  sidewalks  or  playing  dominoes  in  the  streets,  the  men  shirt  less  and  the  women  in  plastic  sandals  and  hair  curlers.  Just  another  barrio  with  a  few  glowing  embers  of  its  an-  cient  fame-a  celebrated  old  red-light  district  come  down  in  the  world,  where     She  had  become  an  obsession,  a  talisman-the  faraway  dream  of  43756261.  idleness  spreads  like  an  oil  slick,  or  something  even  more  viscous.  The  Revolution  rooted  out  prostitution,  but  not  the  43756261n  habit  of  living  one's  most  intimate  life,  without  shame,  in  the  middle  of  the  street.  It  wasn't  easy  to  park  my  car,  be-  cause  a  number  of  chairs  had  to  be  moved  and  a  couple  of  sharply  dressed  young  girls  had  to  be  asked  to  get  out  of  the  way  so  that  I  could  get  close  to  the  curb.  They  laughed  and  took  their  time  moving  onto  the  sidewalk,  convinced  that  I  was  insolently  rob-  bing  them  of  their  space.  The  barrio  reeked  of  rotten  cabbage  and  cheap  cologne,  a  peculiar  stench  that  one  soon  gets  used  to.  Neither  of  the  girls  was  Miosvatis.  I  knew  this  without  even  asking.  Miosvatis  was  something  else  again.  I  didn't  inquire  after  her,  because  that  would  have  aroused  curiosity.  I  simply  knocked  on  the  door  of  the  address  I  had,  and  a  thickset  woman  with  hair  dyed  with  opened  the  door.  To  her,  I  men-  tioned  the  name  of  my  friend's  darling.  71  She  answered  me  with  an  evil  smile.  &quot;She  lives  on  the  top  floor,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  she's  not  there,  she  went  out  with  a  boyfriend.  But  come  in,  come  in.  In  this  barrio  everybody  wants  to  know  your  business-gossip  spreads  like  weeds  here.  Look,  they're  already  watching  us.&quot;  The  old  woman  invited  me  into  her  ground  floor  apartment—the  ceil-  ing  peeling  and  the  floor  a  carpet  of  si-  lent  cats  and  dogs.  &quot;Don't  your  dogs  bark?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;No,  that's  the  way  they  are.  I've  got  them  trained.&quot;  She  ignored  them,  as  if  they  weren't  there.  Against  the  light,  I  was  able  to  make  out  a  tinted  pho-  tograph  of  theold  woman  in  her  youth,  pretty  and  with  her  lips  accentuated  by  an  imprudent  use  of  lipstick  which  dated  the  image  to  the  mid-fifties-  an  era  of  thick  features  and  lurid  col-  ors.  She  said  something  softly  that  I  couldn't  hear  because  she  feared  eaves-  droppers.  She  talked  a  lot,  eager  to  take  advantage  of  astranger's  ear,  and  of  course  she  wanted  to  know  what  I  was  doing  there.  I  explained  that  I  wasn't  sure  of  Miosvatis's  apartment  number.  And  she  looked  up  wide-  eyed,  butnot  so  much  surprised  as  complicit.  &quot;You  bringing  her  some-  thing?  That  little  package  is  for  her?  You're  Spanish?&quot;  &quot;No,  Ma'am,  I'm  43756261n  ...&quot;  &quot;Ah,  43756261n!  But  you  live  outside.&quot;  &quot;No,  Ma'am,  I  live  here,  and  I've  come  to  bring  a  present  for  your  neighbor.&quot;  &quot;Good  enough,  but  she's  not  here-  I  told  you,  she  went  out  with  a  friend.  But  not  a  guy  from  here,  from  this  bar-  rio,  no.  Me,  it's  the  first  time  I've  seen  him.  He's  mulatto,  lighter-skinned,  a  lot  lighter-skinned  than  her.&quot;  The  woman's  opaque  eyes  searched  mine.  Staring  back  at  them,  I  realized  that  the  irises  were  ringed  with  a  halo  of  white,  and  that  her  eyelashes  were  T2  white  as  well.  As  I  did  not  speak,  she  told  me  that  Miosvatis  lived  on  the  top  floor.  &quot;But  she's  not  there,  you  know,  she's  always  going  off  into  the  streets  and  leaving  the  kids  up  there  with  her  younger  sister.  Look,  nobody's  up  there,  because  the  window  that  faces  my  courtyard  is  closed,  unless  the  sister's  asleep  and  the  girls  are  running  around  in  the  street.  If  you  want,  I'll  hold  on  to  something  for  you.  The  little  pack-  age,  that's  for  Miosvatis?  Don't  worry,  you  can  leave  it  with  me,  but  they  don't  deserve  it.  They  throw  filth  down  at  me.  I'm  sorry  to  have  to  tell  you  this,  but  yes,  sir,  justto  annoy  me  they  throw  wads  of  Miosvatis's  daughters'  shit  out  the  window,  and  I've  reported  them  to  the  police,  but  nothing,  they  won't  even  listen  to  me.  But  come  on  through  here-would  you  like  some  water?  You  could  suffocate  in  this  heat.  Where'd  you  say  you  were  from?  Oh,  yes,  43756261,  but  you  live  on  the  outside!  Well,  however  you  want,  either  you  leave  the  little  package  with  me  or  you  come  back  another  day,  make  up  your  mind.&quot;  A  plaque  of  the  Virgin  of  Charity  of  Cobre,  her  robe  stained  with  grease  and  her  sparse  hair  also  colored  by  the  dust  of  bijo/,  was  hung  high  on  the  wall.  The  floor  in  this  room  was  un-  even  and  seemed  almost  like  an  ancient  artifact,  made  up  of  filthy  tiles,  shabby  and  broken.  The  old  woman  was  about  to  say  something  when  an  earsplitting  scream  came  from  above.  &quot;It's  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  her,  she  was  there  all  the  time,  but  they  hide  to  spy  on  people-and  I  only  do  them  favors.  It's  on  account  of  me  that  those  baby  girls  drink  condensed  milk.&quot;  There  was  a  second  scream,  this  time  a  little  less  sharp,  as  if  the  screamer  knew  she'd  been  heard  down  in  the  first-floor  apartment,  where  I  was  now  sitting  in  a  wicker  armchair  with  a  broken  seat.  The  old  woman  pointed  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Go  up,  go  on  up.  It's  four  flights,  you'll  know  which  one  is  theirs.&quot;  «&quot;['M  Yalaine,&quot;  said  the  woman  who  answered  the  door.  She  was  a  beautiful  black  woman,  compact,  a  sculpture  composed  of  solid  volumes.  &quot;It's  a  pleasure,  come  in,  make  your-  self  at  home.  Pardon  that  I  haven't dressed  the  girls-it's  the  heat,  it  puts  us  right  to  sleep.I  heard  you  talking  to  that  old  gossip  and  I  saidto  myself,  'That's  a  message  for  me  from  Manuel.&quot;  Right?&quot;  &quot;No,  companera,  it's  for  Miosvatis.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  for  my  sister!  You  can  leave  it  with  me-don't  worry,  that  way  you  won't  have  to  come  back.  My  sister  went  out  on  an  errand  about  an  hour  ago,  but  she  won't  be  back  till  late.  It's  from  Gunther?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  it's  from  Juanito.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  Juanito,  yeah,  yeah,  my  sister's  fiancé.  Thanks!&quot;  Yalaine  shut  the  twins  in  the  other  room,  and  between  the  girls'  screams  and  my  own  uneasiness  in  that  slum  I  don't  remember  the  moment  when  I  handed  her  the  perfume,  the  postcard,  and  the  watch.  &quot;Miosvatis  has  been  waiting  to  hear  from  Juanito  for  days,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  wants  to  marry  her,  but  my  sister's  not  sure  because  of  the  two  kids,  and  she  just  got  a  little  job  .  ..  It's  not  easy,  you  know?  But  you're  not  German.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  I'm  43756261n  and  a  friend  of  Juanito's.  I  saw  him  over  there,  and  he  gave  me  this  for  your  sister.  He  talked  a  lot  about  her.&quot;  Yalaine  offered  me  coffee.  &quot;Juanito  bought  these  cups  because  he  likes  to  drink  43756261n  coffeein  fine  cups.  He's  sure  got  white  hands,  and  delicate.  He's  a  man  who's  very  .  ..&quot;  Miosvatis  and  Yalaine's  apartment  could  have  been  a  set  for  a  vernacular  piece  at  the  Teatro  Marti.  Off  to  one  side,  near  the  window  that  opened  onto  a  tiny  balcony,  was  a  pair  of  vases  with  wax  flowers  covered  in  soot.  On  the  other  side,  a  broken  clock  that  had  stopped  at  ten  sat  next  toa  statue  of  St.  Barbara  with  black  ovals  embroi-  dered  on  her  cloak  and  the  tip  of  her  nose  chipped  off.  The  smell  of  rotten  cabbage  was  now  mixed  with  a  sweet  and  penetrat-  ing  French  perfume  to  which  I  had  an  allergic  reaction  that  was  impossible  to  hide.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  Yalaine  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  put  this  stuff  for  my  sister  under  lock  and  key,  because  if  I  don't  the  girls  will  ruin  it  in  no  time-they  grab  everything,  but  everything.  And  for  my  sister  what  comes  from  Juanito  is  sacred.  Would  you  like  some  more  coffee?&quot;  &quot;No,  thanks.&quot;  Yalaine  went  into  the  other  room  and  came  out  again  dressed  in  bril-  liant  blue  satin,  with  earrings  she'd  got  from  the  diplomats'  store  brush-  ing  against  her  Baule  princess  shoul-  ders.  She  looked  at  me  with  suspicion,  but  also  with  appreciation.  She'd  have  liked  me  to  stay  longer.  She  apologized  for  the  disorder  and  the  dust  that  cov-  ered  everything.  &quot;With  these  girls,  there's  never  time  for  anything.  And  my  sister  and  I  are  alone  here.  Our  mother  died  and  we're  all  the  family  we've  got.&quot;  I  didn't  look  at  her  in  any  way  indiscreetly.  I  just  wanted  to  get  up  and  leave.  Then  she  asked,  &quot;Did  Juanito  say  he  was  going  to  marry  my  sister?&quot;  &quot;No,  he  didn't  say.&quot;  &quot;I'm  asking  because  I'm  not  going  to  get  stuck  with  the  girls.  Imagine!  She's  going  to  have  to  take  them.&quot;  &quot;They're  very  pretty-they  look  like  you.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  but  they're  not  mine.  It's  on  account  of  my  sister  and  me,  we  look  alike.&quot;  I  started  to  sneeze.  I  don't  know  if  it  was  the  dust  or  the  cloying  supersweet  perfume.  I  said  goodbye,  thinking  of  Wolfgang  in  that  [REDACTED]  pastry  shop,  under  those  orange  umbrellas  in  that  dry  and  elegant  autumn  in  the  city  of  Giacometti.  As  I  went  down  the  stairs,  the  odor  of  rotting  cabbage  got  stronger,  now  mixed  with  cat  piss.  Dirty  black  stains  splotched  the  marble  stairs  of  what  might  once  have  been  a  bright  and  flamboyant  house  of  prostitution.  The  cat  woman  had  her  door  open,  but  she  made  no  move  to  say  goodbye  to  me.  Maybe  she  was  afraid  I'd  told  Yalaine  something  of  what  we'd  talked  about.  In  her  eyes  I  saw  only  empty  indifference.  Coming  out  into  the  high  after-  noon  sun,  with  my  shirt  sticking  to  my  skin,  I  saw  a  group  of  men  around  my  car.  I  shota  quick  glance  at  the  tires,  the  rearview  mirror,  the  windshield  wipers,  and  opened  the  door,  feigning  confidence  in  this  barrio  and  its  peo-  ple.  I  didn't  start  the  car  right  away;  I  even  looked  up.  Yalaine  was  waving  goodbye,  and  I  realized  from  this  dis-  tance  that  her  front  teeth  had  an  even  wider  gap  than  I'd  noticed.  Who  was  lovelier,  Yalaine  or  Miosvatis?  Perhaps  I'll  never  know.  The  engine  turned  over,  and  I  was  about  to  step  on  the  accelerator  when  two  girls  approached  thecar  window.  Curious,  and  with  as-  sumed  familiarity,  they  asked  in  unison,  &quot;You're  a  friend  of  Juanito's?&quot;  I  smiled  and  stepped  on  the  gas.  At  that  hour,  the  Malecon  was  almost  deserted.  Only  a  tourist  couple  in  Bermuda  shorts  and  a  sad  and  sickly  dog,  like  Giacometti's,  were  silhouetted  against  the  landscape.