 b"68  FICTION  JULIANA  CLOTH  HE  was  just  six-  teen,  and  still  un-  der  her  mother's  wing,  when  Wil-  liam  Wamala  first  came  to  town  with  his  bright  bolts  of  cloth.  He  was  a  trader  from  the  [REDACTED],  and  he'd  come  across  the  vast  gray  plane  of  the  lake  so  early  in  the  morning  he  was  like  a  ghost  rising  from  the  mist.  Picture  him  there,  out  on  the  lake,  the  cylinders  of  rich  cotton  batik  hanging  limp  over  the  prow  of  the  invisible  boat  as  if  suspended  in  ether,  no  movement  discernible  but  for  the  distant  dip  and  rise  of  his  arms,  and  all  the  birds  crying  out,  startled,  while  the  naked  statue  of  his  torso  levi-  tated  above  the  still  and  glassy  surface.  The  fishermen  were  the  first  to  see  him  coming.  They  were  the  eyes  of  the  vil-  lage,  just  as  the  dogs  were  its  nose,  and  as  they  cast  their  nets  for  dagaa  they  raised  their  palms  in  silent  greeting.  Miriam-she  was  the  only  child  of  Ann  Namirimu  and  the  late  Joseph  Na-  mirimu,  who  had  been  struck  by  light-  ning  and  scorched  out  of  this  existence  when  she  was  an  infant  strapped  to  her  mother's  back-was  at  first  unaware  that  the  trader  had  arrived  in  town  with  a  new  season's  patterns.  She  was  asleep  at  such  an  hour,  crushed  under  the  weight  of  her  sixteen  years  and  the  disco  dance  she'd  attended  the  night  before  with  her  Aunt  Abusaga  and  Uncle  Milton  Metembe.  Uncle  Milton's  special  friend,  Gladys  Makuma,  had  been  there,  and  he  danced  with  her  all  night  while  Aunt  Abusaga  danced  with  Miriam  and  a  mural  ofboys  and  men  painted  them-  selves  to  the  walls,  alive  only  in  their  eyes.  People  were  smoking  and  drink-  ing  beer  and  whiskey.  The  music  thumped  with  a  percusswe  bass,  and  the  beat  held  steady  except  in  those  intervals  when  the  electricity  faltered  and  people  fell  laugh-     Deaths  of  a  travelling  salesman.     BY  T.  CORAGHESSAN  BOYLE  ing  into  each  other's  arms.  It  was  like  Heaven,  a  picture-book  Heaven,  and  Miriam,  asleep,  lived  only  to  go  back  there  and  dance  till  her  feet  got  so  heavy  she  couldn't  lift  them.  Coffee  woke  her.  And  griddle  cakes.  And  the  crowing  of  fugitive  cocks.  Her  mother,  richly  draped  in  last  year's  kenge  and  exuding  a  smell  of  warm  sheets  and  butter,  was  fixing  breakfast  preparatory  to  her  departure  to  the  government  of-  fice  where  she  worked  as  a  secretary.  Miriam  got  up,  and  her  dog  got  up  with  her.  She  ate  with  her  mother  in  silence,  sitting  at  the  polished  wooden  table  as  if  she  were  chained  to  it.  When  her  motherhad  left  for  work,  Miriam  dug  a  pack  of  cigarettes  from  an  innocent-looking  fold  of  her  bed-  clothes  and  stuck  one  experimentally  in  the  corner  of  her  mouth.  They  were  Top  Club  cigarettes  (&quot;For  Men  Whose  Decisions  Are  Final&quot;)  and  they'd  been  slipped  into  her  hand  at  the  disco  dance,  right  there  in  the  middle  of  the  floor,  while  she  was  rolling  her  hips  and  cranking  her  shoulders  in  synch  with  the  beat.  And  who  had  slipped  them  to  her,  unlooked  for  and  unasked  for,  as  a  kind  of  tribute?  A  boy  she'd  known  all  her  life,  James  Kariango,  who  was  eighteen  years  old  and  as  tall  and  wide-  shouldered  as  any  man.  She  felt  a  hand  touch  hers  as  everyone  moved  in  a  blur  of  limbs  through  sweat  that  was  like  a  wall,  the  fumes  of  whiskey  rose  from  the  makeshift  bar,  and  the  shadowy  blue  clouds  of  smoke  hung  like  curtains  around  imaginary  windows,  and  there  he  was,  dancing  with  a  woman  she'd  never  seen  before  and  eclipsing  his  left  eye  in  a  sly  wink.  Shehad  never  smoked  a  cigarette.  Her  mother  wouldn't  allow  it.  Cigarettes  were  for  common  people,  and  Ann  Na-  mirimu  was  no  common  person-edu-  cated  in  the  capital  and  sister  to  one  of  the  president's  top  advisers-and  nei-  ther  was  her  daughter.  Her  daughter  was  a  lady,  one  of  only  eight  girls  in  the  village  to  go  on  to  high  school,  and  she  would  conduct  herself  like  a  lady  at  all  times  or  suffer  the  rolling  thun-  der  and  sudden  strikes  of  her  mother's  wrath,  and,  while  Aunt  Abusaga  and  Uncle  Milton  Metembe  might  have  thought  a  disco  dance  appropriate  for  a  young  lady,  Ann  Namirimu  certainly  did  not,  and  it  was  against  her  better  judgment  that  Miriam  had  been  al-  lowed  to  go  at  all.  Still,  once  Miriam  had  stuckthe  cigarette  in  her  mouth  and  studied  herself  in  the  mirror  from  various  angles,  she  couldn't  help  putting  a  match  to  the  tip  of  it  and  letting  the  sweet  stinging  smoke  invade  her  mouth  and  swell  out  her  cheeks  until  she  ex-  haled  like  a  veteran.  She  never  took  the  smoke  into  her  lungs,  and  she  didn't  re-  ally  like  the  taste  of  it,  but  she  smoked  the  cigarette  down  to  a  nub,  watching  herself  in  the  mirror  all  the  while,  and  then  she  went  out  into  the  yard  and  carefully  buried  the  remnant  where  her  mother  wouldn't  find  it.  She  fed  her  dog,  swept  the  mats,  and  dressed  for  school  in  a  dream  oriented  around  the  pulse  of  disco  music  and  the  movement  of  liberated  bodies.  Then  she  went  off  to  school,  barefoot,  carry-  ingher  shoes  in  one  hand  and  her  satchel  of  books  and  papers  in  the  other,  think-  ing  she  might  just  have  a  peek  at  the  market  on  her  way.  It  was  early  still,  the  sun  long  in  the  trees  and  all  the  striped  and  spotted  dogs  of  the  town  stretching  and  yawn-  ing  in  the  street,  but  it  might  as  well  have  been  noon  in  the  marketplace.  Everyone  was  there.  Farmwives  with  their  yams  and  tomatoes  arranged  in  baskets  and  laid  out  on  straw  mats,  a  man  selling  smoked  colobus  monkey  and  pangas  honed  to  a  killing  edge,  the  I  fishermen  with  their  fresh-caught  tila-  2  pia  and  tiger  fish,  the  game  and  cattle  2  butchers  and  the  convocation  of  flies  that  8  had  gathered  to  taste  the  wet  sweetness  2  " b"of  the  carcasses  dangling  from  metal  hooks.  And  the  crafts  merchants,  too-  the  women  selling  bright  orange  and  yellow  plastic  bowls,  pottery,  mats  and  rugs  and  cloth.  Cloth  especially.  And  that  was  where  Miriam  found  him,  William  Wamala,  the  smiling,  hand-  some,  persuasive  young  man  and  bud-  ding  entrepreneur  from  the  [REDACTED],  and  his  fine  print  cotton  cloth,  his  Juliana  cloth.  For  that  was  what  they  christened  it  that  morning,  the  crowd  gathered  around  his  stall  that  was  nothing  more  than  a  rickety  table  set  up  at  the  far  end  of  the  marketplace  where  no  one  bothered  about  anything:  Juliana  cloth.  William  Wamala  stood  behind  the  table  with  his  measuring  tape  and  shears  and  the  bolts  of  cloth  in  a  blue  so  deep  you  fell  into  it,  with  slashes  of  pale  pa-  paya  and  bright  arterial  red  for  contrast.  &quot;How  much  for  the  Juliana  cloth?&quot;  one  woman  asked,  and  they  all  knew  the  name  was  right  as  soon  as  she'd  pro-  nounced  it.  Because  this  print,  unlike  any  they'd  seen  before,  didn't  feature  flowers  or  birds  or  palm  frondsor  the  geometric  patterns  that  had  become  so  popular  in  the  last  few  years  but  a  name-a  name  in  English,  a  big,  bold  name  spelled  out  in  the  aforementioned  colorsthat  ran  in  crazy  zigzags  all  over  the  deep-blue  field.  &quot;Juliana,&quot;  it  read.  &quot;Juliana,  Juliana,  Juliana.&quot;  Miriam  wanted  the  cloth  as  soon  as  she  saw  it.  Everyone  wanted  it.  Ev-  eryone  wanted  to  be  the  first  to  appear  in  the  streets  or  at  the  disco  dance  in  a  kanga  cut  from  this  scintillating  and  en-  ticing  cloth.  But  it  was  expensive.  Very  expensive.  And  exclusive  to  William  Wamala.  Who  proved  ultimately  to  be  a  very  understanding  and  affectionate  young  man,  willing  to  barter  and  trade  if  shillings  were  unavailable,  accepting  pots  of  honey,  dried  dagaa,  beer,  whiskey,  and  cigarettes  in  payment,  and  espe-  cially,  when  it  came  to  the  beauties  of  the  town,  exchanging  his  Juliana  cloth  for  what  might  be  considered  their  most  precious  commodity,  a  commodity  that  cost  them  nothing  but  pleasure  in  the  trading.  When  Miriam  stopped  in  the  market  two  mornings  later,  he  was  there  still,  but  the  crowd  around  him  was  smaller  and  the  bolts  of  cloth  much  depleted.  He  sat  back  now  in  a  new  cane  chair,  his  splayed  feet  crossed  at  the  ankles  and  looming  large  over  the  scrap-strewn  table,  his  smile  a  bit  haggard,  a  beer  pressed  like  a  jewel  to  his  lips.  &quot;Hello,  Little  Miss,&quot;  he  crooned  in  a  booming  basso  when  he  saw  her  standing  there  with  her  satchel  between  two  fat-armed  women  wrapped  in  kangas  that  were  as  ancient  as  dust  and  not  much  prettier.  She  looked  him  in  the  eye.  There  was  nothing  to  be  afraid  of:  Beryl  Obote,  fif-  teen  and  resplendent  in  Juliana  cloth,  had  told  her  all  about  him,  how  he  hummed  and  sang  while  removing  a  girl's  clothes  and  how  insatiable  he  was,  as  if  that  very  day  were  his  last  on  earth.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  Miriam  said,  smiling  widely.  &quot;I  was  just  wondering  how  much  the  Ju-  liana  cloth  is  today?&quot;  &quot;For  you?&quot;  He  never  even  bothered  to  remove  his  feet  from  the  table,  and  she  could  see  the  faintest  glimmer  of  interest  rising  from  the  deeps  of  his  eyes  like  a  lonely  fish,  only  to  sink  back  down  again  into  the  murk.  He  was  satiated,  bloated  with  drink  and  drugs  and  rich  food,  rubbed  so  raw  between  his  legs  he  could  scarcely  walk,  and  she  was  no  beauty,  she  knew  that.  She  made  her  eyes  big.  She  held  her  breath.  Finally,  while  the  fat-armed  women  bickered  over  something  in  thin  piping  voices  and  the  sun  vaulted  through  the  trees  to  take  hold  of  her  face,  he  quoted  her  a  price.  In  shillings.  HE  first  to  fall  ill  was  Gladys  Ma-  kuma,  Uncle  Milton  Metembe's  special  friend.  It  was  during  the  long  rains  inApril,  and  many  people  were  sick  with  one  thing  oranother,  and  no  one  thought  much  about  it  at  first.  &quot;Let  her  rest,&quot;  Miriam's  mother  insisted  from  her  long  slab  ofan  aristocrat's  face.  &quot;Give  her  tea  with  lemon  and  honey  and  an  herbal  broth  in  the  evenings,  and  she'll  soon  be  on  her  feet  again.&quot;  But  Miriam's  mother  was  wrong.  Miriam  went  with  Aunt  Abusaga  and  Uncle  Milton  to  Gladys  Makuma's  neat  mud  and  clapboard  house  to  bring  her  beef  tea  and  what  comfort  they  could,  and  when  they  stepped  into  the  yard  there  was  Lucy  Mawenzi,  doyenne  of  the  local  healers,  coming  gray  and  shaken  through  the  door.  Inside  was  a  wake,  though  Gladys  Makuma  wasn't  dead  yet.  Surrounded  by  her  children,  her  husband,  and  his  stone-faced  sisters,  she  had  shrunk  into  herself  like  some  artifact  in  the  dirt.  All  you  could  see  69  of  her  face  was  nostrils  and  teeth,  no  flesh  but  the  flesh  of  a  mummy,  and  her  hands  on  the  sheets  like  claws.  There  would  be  no  more  disco-dancing  for  her,  no  more  sharing  a  pint  of  whiskey  with  Uncle  Milton  Metembe  in  a  dark  boat  on  the  dark,  pitching  lake.  Even  an  optimist  could  see  that,  and  Miriam  was  an  optimist-her  mother  insisted  on  it.  With  Beryl  Obote,  it  was  even  worse,  because  Beryl  was  her  coeval,  a  girl  with  skinny  legs  and  saucer  eyes  who  wore  her  hair  untamed  and  had  a  laugh  so  infectious  she  could  bring  chaos  to  a  classroom  merely  by  opening  her  mouth.  Miriam  was  coming  back  from  the  mar-  ket  one  afternoon,  the  streets  a  soupof  mud  and  an  army  of  beetles  crawling  over  every  fixed  surface,  when  she  spot-  ted  Beryl  in  the  crowd  ahead  of  her,  the  Juliana  cloth  like  the  ocean  come  to  life  and  her  hair  a  dark  storm  brood-  ing  over  it.  But  something  was  wrong.  She  was  lurching  from  sideto  side,  tak-  ing  little  circumscribed  steps,  and  peo-  ple  were  making  way  for  her  as  if  she  were  drunk.  She  wasn't  drunk,  though  when  she  fell  to  the  ground,  subsiding  into  the  mud  as  if  her  legs  had  dis-  solved  beneath  her,  Miriam  saw  that  her  eyes  were  as  red  as  any  drunkard's.  Miriam  tried  to  help  her  up-never  mind  the  yellowtub  of  matoke,  rice,  and  beans  her  motherhad  sent  her  for-but  Beryl  couldn't  find  her  feet,  and  there  was  a  terrible  smell  about  her.  &quot;I'm  so  embarrassed,&quot;  she  said,  and  if  you  couldn't  smell  it  you  could  see  it,  the  diarrhea  and  the  blood  seeping  through  the  deep  blue  cloth  into  the  fetid  trodden  mud.  After  that  everyone  fell  sick:  the  women  who'd  bought  the  Juliana  cloth  with  their  favors,  their  husbands,  and  their  husbands'  special  friends,  not  to  mention  all  the  men  who  had  consorted  with  a  certain  barmaid  at  the  disco-  the  one  who  wore  a  2enga  in  the  blue,  red,  and  papaya  of  decay.  It  was  a  hex,  that  was  what  people  believed  at  first,  a  spell  put  on  them  by  William  Wamala,  who  had  come  all  the  way  across  the  lake  from  the  homeland  of  their  ances-  tral  enemies-he  was  a  sorcerer,  aprac-  titioner  of  the  black  arts,  an  evil  spirit  in  the  guise  of  a  handsome  and  affection-  ate  young  man.  But  it  soon  became  apparent  that  no  hex,  no  matter  how  potent  and  far-reaching,  could  affect  so  " b"many.  No,  this  was  a  disease,  one  among  a  host  of  diseases  ina  region  surfeited  with  them,  and  it  seemed  only  natural  that  they  call  it  Juliana's  disease,  af-  ter  the  cloth  that  had  brought  it  to  them.  Typically,  it  began  with  a  headache  and  chills;  then  there  was  the  loosen-  ing  of  the  bowels  and  the  progressive  wasting.  It  could  have  been  malaria  or  tuberculosis  or  marasmus,  but  it  wasn't.  It  was  something  new.  Some-  thing  no  one  had  ever  seen  before,  and  all  who  caught  it-women  and  men  in  their  prime,  girls  like  Beryl  Obote-  were  eventually  wrapped  up  in  bark  cloth  and  sent  to  the  grave  before  the  breath  of  two  months'  time  had  been  exhausted.  Uncle  Milton  Metembe  and  Aunt  Abusaga  contracted  it  at  the  same  time,  almost  to  the  day,  and  Miriam  moved  into  their  house  to  tend  them,  afraid  in  her  heart  that  the  taint  would  spread  to  her.  She  cooked  them  soup  and  rice  through  the  reek  of  their  ex-  crement,  which  flowed  like  stained  water;  she  swept  the  house  and  changed  their  soiled  sheets  and  read  to  them  from  the  comic  papers  and  the  Bible.  At  night,  the  rats  rustled  in  the  thatch,  and  the  things  of  the  dark  raised  their  voices  in  an  unholy  howl,  and  Miriam  fell  away  deep  into  herself  and  listenedto  her  aunt  and  uncle's  tortured  breathing.  The  doctors  came  then  from  Amer-  ica,  [REDACTED],  and  England,  white  peo-  ple  in  white  coats,  and  a  few  who  were  almost  white  and  even  stranger  for  that,  as  if  they'd  been  incompletely  dipped  into  the  milk  of  white  life.  They  drew  blood  like  vampires,  vial  after  vial,  till  the  sick  and  weary  trem-  bled  at  the  sight  of  them,  and  still  there  was  no  cause  or  cure  in  sight,  the  corpses  mounting,  the  orphans  wail-  ing;  then  one  day  the  doctors  went  away  and  the  government  made  an  an-  nouncement  over  the  radio  and  in  the  newspapers.  Juliana's  disease,  the  gov-  ernment  said,  was  something  new  in-  deed,  very  virulent  and  always  fatal,  and  it  was  transmitted  not  through  cloth  or  hexes  but  through  sexual  con-  tact.  Distribution  of  condoms  was  being  made  possible  by  immediate  im-  plementation  in  every  town  and  vil-  lage,  through  thestrenuous  efforts  of  the  government,  and  every  man  and  woman,  every  wife  and  girl  and  special  friend,  should  be  sure  of  them  every  time  sexual  union  was  achieved.  There  wasno  other  way  and  no  other  hope,  short  of  monkhood,  spinsterhood,  or  abstinence.  The  news  rocked  the  village.  It  was  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  19,  1998  unthinkable.  They  were  poor  people  who  didn't  have  theatres  or  supermar-  kets  or  shiny  big  cars  for  diversion-  they  had  only  a  plate  of  dagaa,  a  glass  of  beer,  and  sex,  and  every  special  friend  had  a  special  friend  and  there  was  no  stopping  it,  even  on  pain  of  death.  Besides  which,  the  promised  condoms  never  arrived,  as  if  any  true  man  or  sensitive  woman  would  allow  a  cold  loop  of  latex  rubber  to  come  between  them  and  pleasure  in  any  event.  People  went  on,  almost  defi-  antly,  tempting  fate,  challenging  it,  unshakable  in  their  conviction  that  though  the  whole  world  might  wilt  and  die  at  their  feet,  they  themselves  would  remain  inviolate.  The  disco  was  as  crowded  as  ever,  the  sales  of  beer  and  palm  wine  skyrocketed,  and  the  corpses  were  shunted  in  a  steady  procession  from  sickbed  to  grave.  Whatever  else  it  might  have  been,  it  was  a  time  of  denial.  Miriam's  mother  was  outraged.  To  her  mind,  the  town's  reaction  was  noth-  ing  short  of  suicidal.  Through  her  po-  sition  at  the  government  office  she  had  been  put  in  charge  of  the  local  campaign  for  safe  sex,  and  it  was  herjob  to  dis-  seminate  the  unwelcome  news.  Though  the  condoms  remained  forever  only  forthcoming  because  of  logistical  prob-  lems  in  the  capital,  Miriam's  mother  typed  a  sheet  of  warning  and  repro-  duced  it  a  thousand  times,  and  a  fac-  simile  of  this  original  soon  sagged  damply  from  every  tree  and  post  and  hoarding  in  town.  &quot;Love  Carefully,&quot;  it  advised,  and  &quot;Zero  Grazing,&quot;  a  some-  what  confusing  command  borrowed  from  one  of  the  innumerable  local  agricultural  campaigns.  In  fine  print,  it  described  the  ravages  of  this  very  small  and  very  dangerous  thing,  this  virus  (an  entity  for  which  there  wasno  name  in  the  local  dialect),  and  what  it  was  doing  to  the  people  of  the  village,  the  countryside,  and  even  the  capital.  No  one  could  have  missed  these  ubiq-  uitoussheets  of  warning  and  exhor-  tation,  and  they  would  have  had  to  be  blind  in  any  case  to  remain  unaware  of  the  plague  in  their  midst.  And  deaf,  too.  Because  the  chorus  of  lament  never  ceased,  day  or  night,  and  you  could  hear  it  from  any  corner  of  the  village  and  even  out  in  the  mists  of  the  lake-a  thin,  steady  insectile  wail  " b"JULIANA  CLOTH  broken  only  by  the  desperate  beat  of  the  disco.  &quot;Suicide,&quot;  Miriam's  mother  snarled  over  breakfast  one  morning,  while  Miriam,  back  now  from  her  aunt  and  uncle's  because  there  was  no  longer  any  reason  to  be  there,  tried  to  bury  her  eyes  in  her  porridge.  &quot;Irresponsi-  ble,  filthy  behavior.  You'd  think  every-  body  in  town  had  gone  mad.&quot;  The  day  was  still  fresh,  standing  fully  re-  vealed  in  the  lacy  limbs  of  the  yellow-  bark  acacia  in  the  front  yard.  Miri-  am's  dog  looked  up  guiltily  from  the  mat  in  the  corner.  Somewhere  a  cock  crowed.  A  long  minute  ticked  by,  punc-  tuated  by  the  scrape  of  spoon  and  bowl,  and  then  her  mother  rose  angrily  from  the  table  and  slammed  her  cup  into  the  wash-up  tub.  All  her  fury  was  directed  at  Miriam,  as  if  fury  alone  could  erect  a  wall  between  an  adoles-  cent  girl  and  James  Kariangoof  the  nicotine-stained  fingers.  &quot;No  better  than  animals  in  the  bush,&quot;  she  hissed,  stamping  across  the  floorboards  with  hunched  shoulders  and  ricochet-  ing  eyes,  talking  to  the  walls,  to  the  dense,  mosquito-hung  air,  &quot;and  no  shred  of  self-restraint  or  respect  even.&quot;  Miriam  wasn't  lis-  tening.  Her  mother's  rhetoric  was  as  emp-  ty  asa  bucket  in  a  dry  well.  What  did  she  know?  Sex  to  her  mother  was  a  memory.  &quot;'That  itch,&quot;  she  called  it,  as  if  it  were  some-  thing  you  caught  from  a  poisonous  leaf  or  a  clump  of  nettles,  but  she  never  itched  and  as  far  as  Miriam  could  see  she'd  as  soon  have  a  hyena  in  the  house  as  a  special  friend.  Miriam  understood  what  her  mother  was  telling  her,  she  heard  the  fear  seeping  through  the  fierceness  of  that  repetitive  and  concus-  sive  voice,  and  she  knew  how  immortally  Tucky  she  was  that  Wil-  liam  Wamala  hadn't     \xc2\xa5  i  \\  found  her  pretty  enough  to  bother  with.  She  understood  all  that  and  she  was  scared,  the  pleading  eyes  of  Beryl  Obote,  Aunt  Abusaga,  Uncle  Milton  Metembe,  and  all  the  rest  unsettling  her  dreams  and  quickening  her  pace  through  the  market,  but  when  James  Kariango  crept  around  back  of  the  house  fifteen  minutes  later  and  raised  two  yel-  lowed  fingers  to  his  lips  and  whistled  like  an  innocuous  little  bird,  she  was  out  the  door  beforethe  sweat  had  time  to  sprout  under  her  arms.  The  first  time  he'd  come  around,  indestructible  with  his  new  shoulders,  jaunty  and  confident  and  fingering  a  thin  silver  chain  at  his  throat,  Miriam's  mother  had  chased  him  down  the  front  steps  at  the  point  of  a  paring  knife,  curs-  ing  into  the  trees  till  every  head  in  the  neighborhood  was  turned  and  every  ear  attuned.  Tending  Aunt  Abusaga  and  Uncle  Milton  Metembe  had  in  its  way  been  Miriam's  penance  for  attract-  ing  such  a  boy-any  boy-and  she'd  been  safe  there  among  the  walking  dead  and  the  weight  of  their  sorrows.  But  now  she  was  home  and  the  months  had  gone  by  and  James  Kariango,  that  perfect  specimen,  was  irresistible.  ~  71  Her  mother  had  gone  off  to  work.  Her  dog  was  asleep.  The  eyes  of  the  world  were  turned  to  the  market  and  the  laundry  and  a  hundred  other  things.  It  was  very,  very  early,  and  the  taste  of  James  Kariango's  lips  was  like  the  taste  of  the  sweetest  fruit,  mango  and  pa-  paya  and  the  sweet  dripping  syrup  of  fresh-cut  pineapple.  She  kissed  him  there,  behind  the  house,  where  the  flowers  grew  thick  and  the  lizards  scut-  tered  through  the  dirt  and  held  their  tails  high  in  sign  of  some  fleeting  tri-  umph.  And  then,  after  a  long  while,  ev-  ery  pore  of  her  body  opening  up  like  a  desert  plant  at  the  first  hint  of  rain,  she  led  him  inside.  He  was  very  solemn.  Very  gentle.  Every  touch  was  electric,  his  fingers  plugged  into  some  internal  socket,  his  face  glowing  like  the  ball  at  the  disco.  She  let  him  strip  off  her  clothes  and  she  watched  in  fear  and  anticipation  as  he  stepped  out  of  his  shorts  and  re-  vealed  himself  to  her.  The  fear  was  real.  It  was  palpable.  It  meant  the  whole  world  and  all  of  life.  But  then  he  laid  her  down  in  the  familiar  cradle  of  her  bed  and  hovered  over  her  in  all  of  his  glory,  and,  oh,  it  felt  so  good.  *  i  P4AKE  \xc2\xa5  ou  DR\xe2\x80\x98N\xe2\x80\x98&lt;;BUT  A  ars  r;  Cfu\xef\xac\x82p  prtRog  PIM  OR  |     "