HE  story  I  am  about  to  re-  late  has  been  in  my  head  a  long  time.  You  could  say  I  I  dreamed  it  up,  but,  if  so,  I  dreamed  it  up  the  way  a  painter  composes  a  fantastic  land-  scape  whose  forms  and  shadows  he  has  seen  in  reality.  In  my  case,  those  forms  and  shadows  came  to  me  as  words,  in  a  letter  containing  a  dozen  pieces  of  scrap  paper  covered  with  a  feverish  handwriting.     N  a  freezing  June  morning  in  the  late  nineteen-seventies,  a  young  Argentine  Navy  officer  was  walking  along  the  Rivadavia,  the  main  shopping  street  of  Buenos  Aires.  He  was  wearing  the  new  uniform  made  for  him  by  a  tailor  who  hadworked  for  his  family  for  twenty  or  thirty  years.  It  was  white,  strictly  speaking  appropriate  only  for  summer,  but  his  girlfriend  always  told  him  that  white  was  his  best  color.  He  could  seehis  reflection  in  the  store  win-  dows,  as  the  43616e616461ern  Hemisphere  win-  ter  sun  had  risen  above  the  roofs,  and  he  smiled  at  himself.  Just  two  days  earher,  he  had  received  official  confirmation  of  his  promotion  to  alférez,  or  second  lieutenant,  in  the  Naval  Air  Force-the  lowest  officer  rank,  but,  all  the  same,  the  first  step-  ping  stone  to  admiral.  The  promotion  had  been  a  sure  thing  after  his  gradua-  tion  from  the  academy,  and  he  had  or-  dered  the  uniform  two  weeks  before.  It  had  one  wing  sewn  on  the  breast  pocket:  he  was  a  navigator.  A  short  leave  was  customary  after  graduation,  but  the  pre-  vious  night  he  had  been  summoned  by  telegram  to  report  at  the  Libertad  Building  in  the  morning.  He  hadn't  told  his  mother,  who  would  have  been  nervous  about  it:  the  four-word  tele-  gram  hadhad  a  slightly  menacing  air.     BY  HANS  KONING  But  walking  in  the  cold  sunlight,  catching  the  eyes  of  young  women  who  looked  his  way,  he  now  thought  that  something  exciting  might  be  in  store  for  him-who  knows,  maybe  even  an  ur-  gent  posting  to  a  foreign  country.  He  was  only  twenty,  but  his  name,  Bocartes,  was  an  old  name  in  the  Navy,  and  every-  one  knows  that  is  how  things  are  de-  cided.  His  grandfather  had  been  a  naval  attaché  in  [REDACTED].  His  nickname  was  Tantas  Veces  (Many  Times),  because  whatever  the  topic  of  conversation  he  usually  managed  to  bring  up  how  many  times  he  had  been  taken  for  an  English  officer,  a  man  from  what  the  British  called  &quot;the  silent  service&quot;-their  Navy  believed  in  understatement;  they  weren't  jabberers  the  way  we  are  here  in  Argen-  tina.  [REDACTED],  he  thought-a  misty  eve-  ning  over  the  Thames-boating  with  an  unbearably  beautiful  earl's  daughter  ...  At  the  Libertad,  he  was  told  to  re-  port  to  Room  342.  &quot;Alférez  [REDACTED]  Bo-  cartes,&quot;  he  said,  saluting  thecolonel  seated  behind  a  bare  desk.  &quot;Bocartes,&quot;  the  man  repeated.  &quot;Right.  We  have  some  personnel  shortages,  sorry  about  your  leave.  Be  here  at  six  tonight,  report  to  the  transport  section.  Bring  your  flying  jacket  and  all  that.  Understood?&quot;  &quot;Will  I  be  away  long,  sir?&quot;  Bocartes  asked.  &quot;Because  I  must  tell-&quot;  &quot;You  won't  be  long.  But  you  will  not  tell  anyone  anything.&quot;  He  took  a  form  out  of  his  desk  drawer.  &quot;You  will  sign  this.  Here's  a  pen.&quot;  T  six,  Bocartes  found  three  men  waiting  outside  the  transport  sec-  tion.  They  wore  British-style  greatcoats  over  their  uniforms,  which  hid  their  ranks,  but  one  of  them  was  clearly  in  charge-a  tall,  bareheaded,  and  almost  bald  man.  They  didn't  say  a  word  to  Bo-  cartes.  A  large  automobile  pulled  up,  an  old  Buick  sedan  with  civilian  license  plates  but  an  Army  corporal  behind  the  wheel.  The  three  got  in  the  back,  and  the  bald  man  leaned  forward  and  opened  the  passenger  door  from  the  inside  for  Bocartes.  &quot;Thank  you,  [REDACTED];  he  said,  turn-  ing  his  head.  &quot;I'm  Captain  Gragi,&quot;  the  man  said,  or  a  name  that  sounded  like  that;  Bo-  cartes  didn't  quite  catch  it.  The  corporal  drove  off  at  great  speed,  turning  south  and  following  the  coastal  highway.  &quot;Where  are  we  off  to,  gentlemen?&quot;  Bocartes  ventured.  There  was  a  long  silence,  and  then  one  of  them  muttered,  &quot;Routine.  Re-  connaissance  flight  from  the  Espera  Naval  Air  Base.&quot;  &quot;Ah.  Connected  with  the  Malvinas,  sir?&quot;  Bocartes  asked,  but  got  no  answer.  Once  they  had  left  the  agglomera-  tion  of  Buenos  Aires  behind,  Bocartes  noticed  a  large  truck  a  hundred  feet  back,  with  the  markings  of  the  Argen-  tine  mail  service.  After  a  while  he  real-  ized  that  it  was  following  them,  keeping  a  constant  distance.  He  was  going  to  say  something  amusing  about  the  evening  mail  being  on  time  for  once  but  thought  better  of  it.  The  officers  in  the  back  were  chain-smoking  in  silence.  It  was  ice  cold  in  the  car.  Bocartes  dozed  off,  and  when  he  looked  up  next  they  were  turning  in  to  the  airbase,  the  mail  truck  still  behind  them.  &quot;Wait  here,  Alférez,&quot;  he  was  told,  and  the  three  men  vanished  into  the  building.  Fuck  it,  Bocartes  thought,  they  aren't  very  jolly,  are  they?  Surely  they  could  have  let  me  come  indoors  with  them.  They  might  even  have  told  me  to  get  some  coffee.  His  watch  said  that  it  was  nearly  two  in  the  morning.  What  a  godforsaken  hour.  He  posted  himself  behind  a  utility  pole  and  had  a  pee.  Black  clouds  were  chasing  across  the  z  sky,  between  them  a  fleeting  view  of  é  the  moon.  The  wind  seemed  to  blow  &amp;  straight  from  Tierra  del  Fuego,  if  not  2  from  the  [REDACTED]  Pole  itself.  He  heard  the  grinding  of  a  hangar  door's  being  opened,  and  in  the  uncertain  light  a  BA-200  transport  plane  appeared,  the  old  workhorse  of  the  Naval  Air  Force-  two  engines,  propellers,  eighteen  hun-  dred  horsepower,  maximum  speed  a  hundred  and  eighty  miles  an  hour.  The  lights  along  the  runway  came  on,  blind-  ing  him.  &quot;Bocartes,  follow  me,&quot;  said  a  voice.  The  Captain  had  reappeared.  He  nod-  ded  with  his  head  toward  the  plane.  &quot;This  is  not  a  pleasant  assignment,  Al-  férez,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  are  in  a  detail  that  transports  political  prisoners-crimi-  nals-to  a  penal  colony  in  the  [REDACTED].  It  is  secret,  for  these  men  have  dangerous  allies  among  the  population.  I  don't  have  to  tell  you  that  [REDACTED]  is  going  through  difficult  times-we  all  have  to  tackle  unpleasant  tasks.&quot;  Bocartes  was  too  surprised  to  think  ofan  answer.  His  posting  in  [REDACTED],  a  misty  evening  over  the  Thames-  &quot;Well,  do  I  have  to  tell  you?&quot;  the  Cap-  tain  asked  sharply.  &quot;No,  no,  sir.  Of  course  not.&quot;  &quot;Good  man.  Your  grandfather  would  be  pleased  with  you.  Let's  get  on  with  it,  shall  we?&quot;  They  reached  the  plane,  and  the  Cap-  tain  climbed  aboard  through  the  rear  door.  A  wooden  platform  had  been  placed  there  to  make  boarding  easier,  but  he  ig-  nored  it.  Bocartes  followed  him  up.  In-  side,  he  looked  around  in  bewilderment.  There  was  a  row  of  men  huddled  on  a  bench  that  ran  along  one  side  of  the  cabin.  The  only  light  came  from  little  spots  along  the  ceiling,  one  every  five  or  six  feet.  The  men  were  wrapped  in  army  blankets,  and  some  leaned  forward,  but  they  were  held  in  place  by  a  long  chain  running  in  front  of  the  bench.  Those  nearest  Bocartes  seemed  to  sit  with  their  eyes  closed.  The  only  sounds  from  them  were  sighs,  murmurs,  racking  coughs.  They  were  all  barefoot,  and  after  his  eyes  adjusted  Bocartes  saw  that  their  an-  kles  were  chained,  and  their  wrists,  too.  The  Captain  had  walked  past  the  row  and  back  again.  &quot;All  seems  in  or-  der,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  going  forward.  We'll  be  off  soon.  You're  in  charge  here,  but  you'll  have  a  sergeant,  Sergeant  Rosa,  he  knows  the  ropes.  He'll  be  here  and  he'll  lock  this  door.  Those  guys  won't  give  you  trouble-they've  been  tranquillized.  For  their  own  good.  O.K.Rosa  knows  the  drill.&quot;  He  turned  and  then  came  back.  &quot;I  almost  forgot.  Here's  the  key.  Rosa  has  one,  too.&quot;  &quot;The  key?&quot;  Bocartes  repeated  stu-  pidly.  But  the  Captain  had  already  gone;  Bocartes  heard  him  lock  the  cockpit  door  behind  him.  ROSA  was  a  short,  heavyset  man  with  hands  the  size  of  country  hams.  He  looked  particularly  unmilitary,  wear-  ing  a  knit  red  scarf  and  what  seemed  to  be  a  number  of  sweaters  on  top  of  each  other.  He  tested  the  plane  door  a  couple  of  times  when  he  boarded,  opening  and  closing  it;  only  then  did  he  turn  to  Bo-  cartes  and  give  him  a  sketchy  salute.  The  engines  had  started  up,  and,  as  the  body  of  a  BA-200  is  not  insulated  or  pressurized,  their  roar  filled  the  cabin.  On  each  side  of  the  door  was  a  bucket  seat.  The  Sergeant  sat  down  in  one  and  fastened  the  seat  belt.  He  waved  at  Bo-  cartes  to  do  the  same.  A  red  light  went  on  over  the  door.  The  plane  started  taxiing  over  the  rough  airstrip  and  was  quickly  airborne.  Rosa  got  up  and  pointed  at  a  metal  rail  along  the  cabin,  a  foot  below  the  ceiling.  Bringing  his  head  close  to  Bocartes,  he  said,  &quot;This  plane  was  once  used  for  para  training,  parachute  jumps!&quot;  Bocartes  nodded  and  stood  up,  too.  Through  the  porthole  near  him  he  saw  the  night  sky,  which  had  a  mysterious  band  of  purple  light  along  the  horizon.  Down  below,  the  earth  lay  in  total  dark-  ness.  For  a  few  seconds  he  was  caught  up  in  the  happiness  of  flying,  of  a  differ-  ent  world.  The  changed  pitch  of  the  engines  indicated  that  the  plane  had  stopped  climbing  and  was  flying  level.  Sergeant  Rosa  produced  two  belts  from  under  his  seat,  put  one  on  over  all  his  sweaters,  and  clipped  it  to  the  rail  above  his  head.  Then  he  handed  the  other  to  Bocartes.  &quot;Use  this  one,&quot;  he  shouted.  Bocartes  looked  blank.  &quot;Are  we  going  to  do  a  parachute  drill?&quot;  he  called  with  a  little  smile.  &quot;You  don't  want  to  fall  out,&quot;  Rosa  shouted  back.  He  wrenched  the  door  handle  down  and  pushed  the  door  side-  ways.  A  violent  wind  whirled  through  the  cabin.  It  woke  a  few  of  the  prison-  ers;  for  a  brief  time  Bocartes  had  for-  gotten  their  presence,  and  now  saw  that  T3  some  were  staring  at  him.  There  was  a  keening  sound,  loud  enough  to  be  heard  over  the  engines,  and  in  spite  of  the  cold  wind  he  became  aware  of  a  nauseating  smell.  The  little  light  above  the  open  door  turned  green.  Rosa  turned  his  back  to  him  and  bent  over,  appearing  to  unlock  the  long  chain.  en,  with  a  speed  almost  unnatural  for  such  a  pudgy  man,  he  grabbed  the  pris-  oner  nearest  to  him  and  pulled  him  to  his  feet.  His  movements  were  as  dry  as  if  he  were  handling  a  straw  pallet.  The  prisoner  looked  unconscious,  his  legs  buckling  under  him.  &quot;Take  his  blanket!&quot;  Rosa  yelled  at  Bocartes.  &quot;Take  it!&quot;  Bocartes  shook  his  head  but  then  did  as  he  was  told.  The  prisoner  was  com-  pletely  naked,  a  bony  man,  scarred,  hand-  cuffed,  his  legs  shackled,  his  penis  shriv-  elled;  he  was  shivering  so  violently  that  Rosa  had  difficulty  holding  him  up.  The  Sergeant  put  one  hand  flat  against  the  man's  lower  back  and  shoved  him  out  of  the  plane.  It  was  done  so  fast  that  it  was  asif  the  man  had  simply  vanished,  dematerialized.  Bocartes  dropped  the  blanket  and  lurched  forward  toward  the  cockpit.  I  cannot  have  seen  this,  he  thought,  it  would  have  been  a  deadly  sin  just  to  see  a  thing  like  that.  He  started  banging  on  the  cockpit  door,  but  it  remained  closed.  He  turned  back  to  the  Sergeant,  walk-  ing  slowly.  Rosa  stood  motionless,  watch-  ing  him  with  curiosity.  He  motioned  to  Bocartes  to  bend  his  head.  &quot;Calm  down,&quot;  he  said  into  his  ear.  &quot;Calm  down,  sin,  Lieutenant.  If  you  don't  help,  they'll  chuck  you  out,  too.  We  don't  bring  back  uninvolved  witnesses.&quot;  A  buzz  sounded  and  the  light  over  the  door  turned  red.  They  did  hear  me,  Bocartes  thought.  They  will  stop.  &quot;Freighter  below  us!&quot;  Rosa  called.  &quot;We  have  to  wait.  Won't  be  long.&quot;  He  brought  his  mouth  close  again.  &quot;It'll  be  over  in  ten  minutes.  They  feel  no  pain.&quot;  Bocartes  stared  at  him,  shaking  his  head  without  stopping.  &quot;But  what  have  they  done?&quot;  he  finally  managed  to  say.  Rosa  guessed  more  than  heard  what  he  had  said.  He  grinned  now.  &quot;For  Christ's  sake!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;What  have  they  done.  You  are  one  stupid  bugger,  aren't  you,  Second  Lieutenant?&quot;  The  light  turned  green.  &quot;T'll  do  them  all,&quot;  Rosa  shouted.  &quot;You   just  pull  the  blankets  off  them,  we  don't  want  a  bunch  of  army  blankets  float-  ing  on  the  ocean.  Drop  'em  behind  you,  they're  wetand  filthy.  They  shit  in  them.&quot;  He  pulled  at  the  next  prisoner,  held  him  on  his  feet,  and  looked  at  Bocartes  until  Bocartes  took  the  blanket  off  the  man  and  dropped  it  behind  him.  When  he  turned  back,  the  man  was  gone.  Some  of  the  prisoners  were  fully  con-  scious  now  and  they  resisted,  fighting  with  Rosa,  trying  to  hang  on,  but  the  Sergeant's  huge  hands  shook  them  loose.  Several  were  screaming  in  a  way  Bocartes  had  heard  only  once  before,  from  a  mare  that  had  run  into  a  barbed-  wire  fence  and  tore  herself  apart  trying  to  get  free.  The  last  prisoner  showed  more  strength.  He  tried  to  hit  the  Sergeant's  face,  but  his  shackled  hands  couldn't  reach  highenough.  &quot;Hit  him!&quot;  the  Ser-  geant  cried,  but  Bocartes  stood  para-  lyzed.  The  Sergeant  tore  the  blanket  off  the  prisoner's  shoulders  with  one  hand  and  tried  to  push  him  out  with  the  other.  &quot;It's  a  woman!&quot;  Bocartes  screamed.  &quot;She  is  a  woman.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  pris-  oner's  bloody  and  battered  body  and  then  swung  a  fist  at  the  Sergeant.  Rosa  slapped  his  face  with  such  force  that  Bo-  cartes  fell  to  his  knees,  and  the  Sergeant  kicked  the  woman  out  of  the  plane.  The  moon  was  out  and  Bocartes,  kneeling  at  the  open  door,  saw  her  turning  and  turn-  ing,  the  moonlight  catching  her  body  in  its  eternity  of  falling.  And  then,  in  an  instant  of  imaginary  silence,  as  if  the  plane's  engines  had  died,  he  heard  her  NAVAL  AVIATION  cry,  acry  as  from  the  end  of  the  world.  When  the  plane  had  landed,  Bocartes  climbed  out  and  ran  away  into  the  dark-  ness.  Somehow  he  got  off  the  base.  Two  weeks  later,  he  was  arrested  in  his  mother's  apartment  as  a  deserter  and  condemned  to  five  years'  hard  labor  in  the  military  prison  at  Rosario.  He  never  spoke  to  anyone  about  that  night.  HAD  met  [REDACTED]  Bocartes  when  he  was  still  a  student  at  a  Buenos  Aires  lyceum.  I  was  visiting  [REDACTED]  as  a  journalist  while  he  was  staying  with  the  Sanchez  family  of  Cérdoba,  to  whom  I  had  an  introduction.  They  had  once  been  the  Cordoba  neighbors  of  the  Guevaras,  before  the  Guevaras  moved  to  the  hill  town  of  Alta  Gracia  because  of  their  son  Che's  asthma.  I  had  given  Bocartes  my  address  when  I  left  Argen-  tina.  He  collected  stamps,  and  I  made  it  a  habit  to  send  him  any  unusual  ones  from  my  European  correspondence.  Sometimes  we  exchanged  Christmas  cards.  But  after  he  went  to  the  naval  academy,  we  lost  touch.  I  never  heard  of  his  arrest  and  imprisonment.  Years  later  I  met  Celia  Sanchez  again,  in  [REDACTED].  I  happened  to  mention  Bo-  cartes  and  she  told  me  that  he  had  com-  mitted  suicide,  justa  week  earlier.  He  had  shot  himself  in  the  head  with  the  little  Italian  nickel-plated  Bernardelli  pistol  he  had  owned  even  as  a  lyceum  boy.  It  was  only  a  .22-calibre  and  it  took  him  twenty-four  hours  to  die.  During  that  time,  he  appeared  to  have  lived  in  one  continuous  nightmare  of  falling.  A  strange  fate  for  the  boy  I  remem-  bered,  who  was  fascinated  by  the  life  around  him-by  stamps,  by  geography,  by  [REDACTED]  and  New  York,  of  which  he  talked  as  if  he  had  already  been  there.  &quot;He  hadn't  been  well  fora  long  time,&quot;  Celia  said.  A  month  after  I  saw  Celia,  I  received  a  letter  from  Bocartes.  Its  battered  enve-  lope  had  stamps  and  stickers  showing  that  it  had  followed  me  from  one  ad-  dress  to  another  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  Europe.  The  letter  was  written  on  scrap  paper  and  much  of  it  was  inde-  cipherable.  At  the  top  of  each  sheet  Bo-  cartes  had  written,  &quot;To  be  destroyed.&quot;  &quot;Destroyed&quot;  he  had  spelled  &quot;destrolled.&quot;  On  those  scraps  of  paper  was  the  story  of  the  night  flight  of  the  BA-200. 