 By   winter  I  had  acquired  a  table  and  chair,  but  that  late  Sep-  §  tember  I  liked  the  place  as  bare  as  I'd  found  it,  and  was  content  to  spread  my  lunch  on  the  white  kitchen  windowsill  and  eat  while  staring  out  at  the  street  below.  The  street  was  bounded  by  the  El  tracks  and  a  neighborhood  ca-  thedral,  the  name  of  which  I  didn't  know.  It  was  a  shadowy  [REDACTED]  street,  with  the  amplified  quiet  of  a  dead  end,  except  for  the  occasional  clatter  of  the  El  and,  at  noon,  the  uniformed  kids  from  the  Cath-  olic  grade  school  playing  during  lunch-  time  recess  in  the  cul-de-sac.  The  cross-  tipped  shadow  of  the  steeple  which  crept  along  the  pavement  seemed  to  add  an  ee-  rie  dimension  of  echo  which  made  the  lighthearted  banter  of  their  voices  sound  all  the  more  riotous.  The  window  I  sat  propped  in  had  been  painted  open.  White  paint  slapped  over  cobwebs  still  foamed  in  the  corners  of  the  sash.  Tiny  white  worms  of  paint  un-  coiled  from  the  hinges  of  the  kitchen  cabinets  when  I  opened  them.  I'd  snapped  a  butter  knife  prying  at  the  painted  draw-  ers,  trying  to  stash  the  silverware  I'd  bor-  rowed,  along  with  a  pair  of  salt  and  pep-  per  shakers,  from  a  cafeteria.  The  entire  apartment  wore  this  fresh  coat  of  white,  through  which  the  signs  and  inscriptions  that  generations  offormer  tenants  had  left  behind-bottle  rings,  phone  numbers,  initials  carved  into  the  woodwork-slowly  reemerged.  I  won-  dered  who  my  former  neighbors  were,  tried  to  imagine  all  that  might  have  hap-  pened  here,  but  there  were  no  ghosts,  no      Why  did  she  tell  him  such  things?     BY  STUART  DYBEK  histories  other  than  what  was  waiting  to  happen,  merely  two  unfurnished  rooms,  empty  except  for  my  saxophone  case  and  portable  typewriter,  and  the  suitcase,  heavy  with  too  many  books,  that  I'd  dumped  at  the  center  of  the  floor.  The  place  was  called  the  Loyola  Arms  Hotel,  although  it  obviously  hadn't  operated  as  a  hotel  for  years.  The  rusted,  burned-out  neon  sign  in  front  had  never  been  removed.  It  was  my  first  apartment.  This  was  in  the  mid-sixties,  and  the  rent  was  cheap,  but  still  beyond  my  means  af-  ter  my  friend  Stash,  who  was  a  Trotskyite  that  year  and  was  to  have  been  my  room-  mate,  moved  into  a  place  across  town,  closer  to  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  at  the  invitation  of  a  Thai  girl  he'd  been  seeing.  I  didn't  blame  him.  Had  we  split  the  rent  as  planned,  I  could  have  made  it  to  next  spring-  at  least  by  my  most  optimistic  calcula-  tions-stretching  out  the  money  I'd  man-  aged  tosave  while  living  with  my  parents.  They'd  been  uprooted  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED],  when  the  plant  where  my  fa-  ther  had  worked  for  thirty  years  shut  down  and  moved  [REDACTED].  My  father  had  managed  to  get  me  a  job  in  the  foundry  with  the  same  company  down  there-a  situation  I  was  desperate  to  escape.  So  I  left  and  came  back  to  [REDACTED],  ostensibly  to  return  to  school,  and  moved  in  anyway,  imagining  that  I  could  live  off  the  city  like  some  form  of  urban  wild-  life-alley  cat,  rat,  sparrow.  I  thought  I  could  slip  between  the  seams  like  the  homeless  foreigners  who'd  roamed  through  the  [REDACTED]  Side  neighborhood  where  I'd  been  raised.  I'd  grown  up  unaware  that  I'd  been  studying  them:  tramps,  bag  ladies,  panhandlers  scav-  enging  the  alleys  in  summer  like  beach-  combers;  old  black  hoboes  fishing  along  the  Sanitary  Canal;  urban  hermits  like  the  bearded  mute  known  only  as  the  D.P.,  who  lived  in  acave  hollowed  out  under  a  sidewalk  on  Twenty-first  and  Washtenaw,  or  the  Mexican  known  as  the  Pigeon  Man,  who  lived  with  the  pigeons,  in  a  nest  of  cardboard  cartons  thathe'd  wedged  among  the  girders  of  the  Western  Avenue  bridge.  My  plan  was  to  live  on  Cheerios  and  baked  potatoes.  How  much  money  did  one  really  need,  after  all?  Supermarkets  offered  free  samples  and  bruised  fruit.  There  were  books  and  records  in  librar-  ies,  paper  and  pens  in  banks,  toilet  pa-  per  and  paper  towels  in  public  rest  rooms,  soap  and  socks  left  in  laundro-  mats.  There  was  Army  surplus  and  Good-  will.  It  was  September  in  [REDACTED],  days  hazed  in  gold,  streets  lined  with  the  largesse  of  produce  stands  and  flower  stalls;  the  city,  to  quote  Stash,  loaded  with  bargains  at  the  world's  expense.  &quot;In  this  country,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;what  amounts  to  merely  surviving  off  the  crumbs  would  be  a  life  of  privilege  most  anywhere  else  on  earth.&quot;  But  my  lunches  were  becoming  ex-  travagant.  Picnics  on  a  windowsill:  braun-  schweiger,  Jewish  rye,  mayonnaise,  raw  onion,  potato  salad  blushing  with  pa-  prika,  a  cold  beer,  an  enormous  garlicky  sea-green  pickle  tonged  just  minutes  before  at  the  corner  deli  by  a  young  woman  with  high  cheekbones  and  a  Slavic  accent,  her  golden  hair  stranding  from  turquoise  combs  that  could  hardly  containthe  weight  of  curls,  ample  breasts  so  loose  they  had  to  be  bare  in  the  sleeve-  less  blue  sundress  she  wore,  and  the  blond  hair  growing  profusely  under  her  arms  flashing  as  she  dipped  into  a  huge  glass  crock  where  a  school  of  kosher  pickles  darted  away  and  tried  to  hide  amid  the  dill  weed,  roiled  seeds,  and  wheeling  peppercorns.  Did  she  realize  looking  at  me  when  she  seized  a  pickle  and,  raising  it  victo-  riously,  smiled,  that  there  are  times  ina  life  when  the  natural,  humble  hair  be-  neath  a  woman's  arms  can  seem  like  a  forbidden  promise?  T'd  walk  back  to  the  hotel,  my  lunch  &amp;  tightly  wrapped  in  white  butcher  paper  $g  sealed  with  the  strip  of  brown  tape  she'd  2&amp;  licked.  It  was  windy  that  fall  and  the  2  neighborhood  smelled  of  whitecaps  off  the  lake.  The  echoof  noon  bells  from  the  church-locked  street  swirled  in  the  vortex  of  doorways  and  mingled  with  the  rasp  of  leaves  and  dust;  pigeons  and  sheets  of  newspaper  kited  over  the  wooden  platform  of  the  Loyola  station.  The  blind  accordion  player  in  an  aban-  doned  newsstand  caught  my  arm  as  I  passed,  saying  he  smelled  garlic.  &quot;Take  me  to  the  turnstiles,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  so  windy  I  can't  hear  where  I'm  go-  ing.&quot;  And  when  I  left  him  at  the  entrance  to  the  El  he  started  pumping  out  notes  just  as  the  northbound  train  slammed  overhead,  like  a  part  of  the  song  catching  up.  Late  at  night,  through  the  painted-  open  window  I  could  hear  the  El  train,  stations  away,  rocking  over  the  hollow  viaducts  of  the  North  Side-Argyle,  Thorndale,  Granville,  stops  with  names  like  English  butlers-as  I  lay  on  the  twangy,  flop-out  Murphy  bed  that  a  girlfriend  called  &quot;the  debilitated  bicep  of  the  Loyola  Arms.&quot;  Well,  not  just  a  girlfriend.  Shewas  the  same  girl  who  told  me  that  she'd  faithfully  kept  adiary  from  the  time  she  was  a  child,  but  that  now  she  wrote  down  nothing,  because  recording  things  as  they  happen-exactly  as  they  are-  means  that  one  is  merely  a  journalist,  and  she  was  living  her  life  like  a  novel.  &quot;The  Great  556e6974656420537461746573n  Novel?&quot;  I  asked,  but  before  she  could  answer  I  guessed  that,  no,  it  was  probably  a  Russian  novel-  pages  of  drifting  snow,  suffering,  endless  vodka-addled  philosophical  arguments,  and  at  the  end  an  appendix,  with  a  fam-  ily  tree,  that  was  necessary  in  order  to  followthe  generations  of  characters  with  their  unpronounceable  names,  names  that  required  you  to  move  your  lips  while  reading.  She  said  that  she  didn't  know  what  kindof  novel  it  was,  because  she-then  she  changed  that  to  &quot;we&quot;-were  only  on  Chapter  1.  She  said  it  without  the  least  bit  of  irony,  and  though  that  frightened  me  a  little,  I  liked  her  all  the  more  for  it.  &quot;You  may  have  noticed  we  have  differ-  ent  thought  processes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  so?&quot;  &quot;I  love  the  connections,  the  overview  of  novels.  And  you  ...  you  think  that  life  is  a  Great  Moments  collection.  Look  at  all  these  undernourished-looking  books  of  poetry.&quot;  She  gestured  to  where  my  type-  writer  sat  on  the  platform  I'd  erected  from  astack  of  library  books.  &quot;How  can  you  type  sitting  on  the  floor,  anyway?&quot;  &quot;I'm  living  my  life  like  a  haiku,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;Syllable  by  syllable.&quot;  &quot;The  best  teacher  I  ever  had  in  high  school  oncewrote  on  one  of  my  papers,  Sarcasm  is  the  final  defense  of  the  weak.'  Anyway,  is  that  saxophone  just  for  décor  or  do  you  ever  play  it?&quot;  &quot;I'm  practicing  to  be  a  musician  of  si-  lence,&quot;  I  told  her,  quoting  a  line  I'd  read  in  a  book  of  translations  ofMallarmé.  She  gave  me  one  of  those  looks  that  says  if  there's  one  thing  more  tedious  than  being  a  bore  it's  being  a  pretentious  asshole.  I  knew  she  was  impressed.  WE’D  met  in  the  New  World,  a  socialist  bookstore  that  had  just  moved  up  to  Rogers  Park  after  a  mail  bomb  had  blown  out  the  windows  of  its  former  downtown  location.  Stash  had  told  me  that  the  owner,  Lew  Merskin,  had  fought  in  the  Spanish  Civil  War.  I'd  wandered  in  on  the  evening  of  the  first  day  I'd  moved  back  to  the  city,  and  meet-  ing  her  there  seemed  like  a  good  omen.  Her  name  was  Melody-but  after  our  discussion  about  life  as  a  Russian  novel  I  began  calling  her  Natasha,  a  name  she  seemed  fond  of.  She  had  the  soulful  eyes  to  carry  it  off,  though  that  soulfulness  might  have  been  enhanced  by  her  violet  eyeshadow.  Her  face  was  framed  by  her  dark  hair,  and  she  constantly  brushed  wisps  of  it  away  from  her  eyes,  andaway  from  our  mouths  when  we  kissed.  I  didn't  have  a  phone  and  I'd  never  know  when  she  was  coming  over,  or  if  she  was  coming  at  all.  The  day  we'd  met  I'd  told  her  where  I  was  living,  never  expecting  her  to  drop  by,  especially  when  she  didn't  even  offer  her  phone  number.  All  she'd  told  me  was  that  she  lived  in  Evanston.  Later,  she  mentioned  that  she  was  attending  Northwestern,  which  I'd  as-  sumed,  somehow,  but  I  never  found  out  where  she  was  living,  whether  alone  or  with  a  boyfriend,  in  a  dorm,  or  ata  sorority  house  she  was  embarrassed  about.  Or  was  she  slumming  and  didn't  want  her  friends  to  know?  Once,  when  I  asked  her  how  I  could  get  in  touch,  she  said,  &quot;Let's  just  leave  it  this  way  for  a  while-  both  free,  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;Fine  by  me,&quot;  I  said.  The  lobby  buzzer  didn't  work.  I  lived  on  the  top  floor,  down  a  dingy  corridor  with  burned-out  overhead  bulbs.  There'd  be  a  knock  at  my  door-I  never  quite  learned  to  recognize  her  knock-and  a  chemical  change  too  intense  to  control  107  would  surge  through  me.  If  it  turned  out  to  be  merely  one  of  my  friends,  Stash  or  Doolin,  I'd  feel  foolish  standing  there  at  the  doorwith  a  pounding  heart.  But  sometimes,  usually  in  midafternoon  when  she'd  cut  class  and  take  the  train  from  Evanston,  it  would  be  Melody,  looking  Natasha-like  in  the  black  raincoat  she  wore  whether  it  was  raining  or  not.  Jeans  or  a  denim  skirt,  blouse  opened  at  the  throat  and  underneath  a  colored  bra-  violet,  ivory,  mint,  smoke,  rose,  Capri.  A  bra  from  what  she  referred  to  as  her  Ital-  ian-underwear  hobby,  which  she  blamed  on  the  corrupting  childhood  experience  of  collecting  wardrobes  for  her  Barbie.  Whatever  the  color  of  the  day,  I'd  hang  up  the  bra  on  my  saxophone.  When  the  flop-out  bed  began  twang-  ing  melodiously  beneath  us,  the  old  woman  in  the  apartment  below  would  beat  the  ceiling  with  what  I  guessed  was  the  handle  of  a  broom.  &quot;I  wonderwhat  chapter  she's  on?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  sad,  not  funny,&quot;  Natasha  said.  &quot;At  least  my  typing  late  at  night  never  seems  to  bother  her.&quot;  &quot;And  what  isit  that  you're  typing  so  late?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  my  diary.&quot;  &quot;Oh  really,  and  do  you  write  about  us?  About  this?  How  do  you  describe  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  usually  start  out,  'Dear  Diary.  &quot;I  wouldn't  know  what  words  to  use,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Certainly  not  the  clinical  ones,  butnot  the  dirty  ones  either.  And  cer-  tainly  not  the  bodice  rippers.  'Throb'  or  'tumescent.'  'Tumescent'-God,  that's  disgusting.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  diaries  are  supposed  to  be  private,  like  confession.&quot;  &quot;No  fair.  I  share  my  stories  with  you.&quot;  It  was  true,  she'd  tell  me  stories-  strange,  amazing  stories  like  the  one  about  her  first  real  sexual  experience  when  she  was  a  freshman  in  high  school  in  a  suburb  outside  [REDACTED].  It  hap-  pened  with  a  college  boy  named  Angelo  who  was  painting  the  condo  where  she  lived  with  her  family.  Not  that  she  and  Angelo  actually  did  anything  much  but  talk,  she  explained,  but  the  things  they  talked  about  were  a  sin.  Simply  talking  with  Angelo  was  more  intensely  erotic  than  what  she  called  mashing,  which  came  later,  with  high-school  boys.  He  was  the  first  man  who  made  her  realize  that  men  could  be  beautiful,  and  once  she  saw  that,  Angelo  was  all  she  could  think  about.  He'd  tease  her,  refer  to  her  as  Lolita  or  Ms.  Jailbait,  and  his  voice  would  drop  and  he'd  begin  a  litany  of  what  he'd  like  to  do  if  she  were  legal.  Once,  when  he  was  painting  the  inside  hallway,  she  brought  him  an  ice-cold  Coke  and  he  climbed  down  from  his  ladder-the  way  shede-  scribed  it  made  it  sound  like  Michel-  angelo  descending  from  the  ceiling  of  the  Sistine  Chapel-and  took  a  long  swig,  then  kissed  her  with  his  ice-cold  lips.  It  was  the  first  kiss  for  which  she  opened  her  mouth.  Lips  still  cool,  he  kissed  her  throat  and  down  her  body.  It  was  summer,  and  she  was  dressed  in  a  halter  top  and  shorts.  &quot;If  you  were  a  woman,  this  is  how  I'd  kiss  your  breasts,&quot;  Angelo  said,  kiss-  ing  gently  through  her  clothes.  &quot;And  this  is  how  I'd  kiss  you  here,&quot;  he  said,  drop-  ping  to  his  knees.  &quot;Jeez,  what  a  pervert,&quot;  Isaid.  There  was  more.  She  woke  the  last  morning  that  the  painters  were  there  to  find  that  Angelo  had  lowered  the  scaffold  outside  justto  the  level  of  her  bedroom  window.  He  perched  there,  five  stories  up,  looking  in.  &quot;I  was  watching  you  sleep,&quot;  he  said.  She  remembered  that  she  was  wear-     THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  10,  1997  ing  shorty  pajamas  of  a  nearly  transpar-  ent  cotton.  &quot;What  would  you  do  now  ifI  wasn't  here?&quot;  he  asked.  She  gotout  of  bed,  yawned  and  stretched,  and  then  unbuttoned  herpa-  jama  top.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Angelo  whispered.  &quot;I'll  always  remember  you  in  the  morning  light.&quot;  Then,  he  reached  in  past  her  cur-  tains  with  his  paintbrush  and  very  lightly  drew  a  streak  of  white  paint  down  her  chest.  She  stood  for  what  seemed  an  hour  under  the  shower,  letting  the  water  slowly  wear  the  paint  from  her  skin.  All  through  her  next  year  in  high  school,  she  told  me,  she'd  unexpectedly  feel  that  streak  of  paint,  and  feel  the  al-  most  irrepressible  urge  to  open  her  blouse  and  see  whether  it  had  reappeared-an  urge  so  strong  that  if  she  was  in  class  she'd  slip  her  fingers  between  the  but-  tons,  touch  her  skin  and  check  her  fin-  gertips  for  paint.  And  if  she  was  at  home  she'd  stand  before  the  mirror  and  unbut-  ton  her  blouse,  pretending  that  Angelo  was  at  the  window,  watching  her.  Sometimes,  looking  into  the  mirror,  she  told  me,  she'd  be  startled  to  notice  that  tears  were  running  down  her  face.  &quot;And  why  were  you  crying?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Because  I'd  heard  that  while  he  was  painting  another  building  Angelo  fell  to  his  death.&quot;  &quot;Probably,  peeping  at  someone,  paint-  brush  in  one  hand  and  dick  in  the  other,  he  lost  his  balance,&quot;  I  wanted  to  say.  All  her  stories  were  about  firsts.  That  first  real  sexual  experience  with  Angelo,  the  first  time  naked  with  a  boy  in  a  hotel  room  (that  was  at  the  State  Forensic  finals  in  Dayton  and  the  boy,aforensic  power-  house  known  and  feared  as  Motormouth,  turned  out  to  be  more  awkward  and  shy  than  she  was);  first  time  with  a  woman-  Maria,  a  defector  from  [REDACTED],  who  was  hired  as  the  gymnastics  coach  at  the  all-girl  Catholic  high  school  during  Mel-  ody's  junior  year  there;  which  led,  ina  weird  way,  to  her  first  time  with  a  di-  vorced  man-the  Langian  psychother-  apist  to  whom  she  was  sent  during  the  scandal  about  the  gymnastics  coach  which  ensued  after  Melody's  mother  read  the  di-  ary  in  which  Melody  had  recorded  the  en-  tire  lesbian  encounter  with  Maria.  After  that,  Melody  stopped  keeping  a  diary.  There  was  a  price  to  pay  in  all  her  stories.  The  therapist,  she  said,  simply  turned  up  missing  one  day-later  they  learned  he'd  disappeared  intoa  religious  cult-and  the  overmatched  naked  boy  in  the  hotel  room  won  State  and  went  on  to  Nationals,  only  to  crack  during  the  finals  and  attempt  suicide.  &quot;What  about  that  teacher  who  wrote  about  sarcasm  on  your  paper?&quot;  &quot;What  about  him?&quot;  &quot;Did  he  die,  too&quot;&quot;  &quot;What's  that  suppose  to  mean?&quot;  &quot;Accidents,  death,deportation,  dis-  appearances,  madness,  suicide,  and  all  that  before  Chapter  1.  Some  prologue.  It  doesn't  bode  well  for  me.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  worry,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're  obviously  a  survivor.&quot;  &quot;I'm  just  glad  it's  a  novel  and  not  a  di-  ary  we're  talking  about.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  I  shouldn't  have  told  you.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  I  never  said  I  didn't  like  listen-  ing  to  your  stories.&quot;  &quot;What's  to  like,  anyway?&quot;  &quot;Ilike  the  line  from  your  high-school  teacher.  I  like  the  one  about  how,  after  the  first  time  a  girlfriend  described  oral  sex  to  you,  you  had  a  dream  about  it  so  intense  you  woke  and,  gymnast  that  you  were,  tried  having  auto-oral  sex.&quot;  &quot;God!  Why  do  I  tell  you  such  things?&quot;  &quot;To  drive  me  crazy?&quot;  HERE'D  been  a  knock  one  night,  too  late  to  be  Natasha.  A  little  late  even  for  Stash.  When  I  opened  the  door,  Doolin,  re-  turned  from  Europe,  stood  there  holding  two  enormous  jugs  of  Paisano  the  way  a  traveller  stands  balanced  between  suitcases.  &quot;I  heard  you  were  back,&quot;  he  said,  step-  ping  in,  looking  around  appraisingly.  &quot;Very  understated.&quot;  &quot;Tll  give  you  the  grand  tour.  This  is  the  kitchen.&quot;  &quot;A  little  breezy,  no?  But  I  love  the  way  that  tree  branch  is  growing  in  through  the  window.  Good  place  to  hang  your  hat.&quot;  Which,  in  Doolin's  case,  was  a  beret.  His  worn  gray  corduroys  were  now  sup-  ported  by  a  pair  of  green  suspenders.  He'd  only  just  returned,  he  said.  Europe  had  wiped  him  out  financially  and  for  the  time  being  he  was  living  at  his  mother's.  &quot;Man,  you  should've  come,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Winding  cobbled  streets  out  of  a  Pissarro  painting.  You  got  any  glasses  around  here?&quot;  They'reon  back  order.&quot;  We  sat,  backs  to  the  wall  besidethe  window,  passingthe  gallon  jug  of  thick,  dark  Paisano.  With  each  swig,  wine  drib-  bled  down  Doolin's  red  beard  and  beaded  off  the  chin  hairs  onto  the  frayed  collar  of  his  shirt.  He  was  telling  me  about  [REDACTED],  about  visiting  Debussy's  house  off  the  Ave-  nue  du  Bois-de-Boulogne,  as  I'd  asked  him  to.  He'dgone  to  Debussy's  grave,  as  well,  at  the  cemetery  at  Passy,  and  left  a  flower  for  me.  Then,  after  [REDACTED],  it  was  on  to  Rome,  riding  the  train  that  runs  along  the  coast  past  [REDACTED],  and  Bordighera-names  of  fantasy  places  picked  up  from  the  paint-  ings  we'd  stood  before  at  the  Art  Institute.  &quot;I  got  off  at  Rapallo  because  Pound  went  crazy  there.&quot;  Outside,  an  El  streamed  by,  a  strip  of  blue-lit  film.  It  was  on  the  train  through  4974616c79,  Doolin  said,  after  the  stop  at  Ra-  pallo,  that  the  flash  of  a  single  word  came  to  him  like  a  revelation  and  he  realized  it  was  the  name  of  a  literary  magazine  that  he  had  to  start:  Obscurity.  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  I  said,  but  not  enthusiastically  enough.  &quot;What  are  you  working  on?&quot;  I  asked,  changing  the  subject.  &quot;Mayakovski,&quot;  Doolin  said.  &quot;  'A  Cloud  in  Trousers  -a  new  translation  for  our  generation.&quot;  Back  braced  against  the  wall,  he  slid    up  to  a  standing  position  to  recite,  the  slightest  hint  of  a  Russian  accent  edging  into  hisvoice:  There  I  go,  looking  cool.  I'm  twenty-two.  Get  off  the  street,  motherfuckers.  &quot;That's  Mayakovski?&quot;  &quot;Is  now.&quot;  He  unzipped  his  fly  and  took  a  leak  out  the  window.  &quot;Very  con-  venient  setup  you  have  here,&quot;  he  said.  He  paced  to  the  typewriter  that  sat  on  the  living-room  floor,  ripped  out  the  sheet  I'd  been  typing  when  he  knocked,  and  read  aloud  in  the  booming  Welsh-  inflected  tones  of  a  Dylan  Thomas  record:  You,  me,  a  secret  concealed  like  a  baloney-  and-cheese  sandwich  smuggled  in  a  secre-  tary's  purse  as  she  rides  the  express  to  work,  something  she  wants  to  devour  now,  that  makes  waiting  for  lunch  impossible-I'm  famished  like  that,  or  as  you  say  ravished,  when  you  mean  ravenous,  and  lunch  turns  out  to  be  a  kiss,  a  speck  of  mustard  on  your  lips.  &quot;Perfect  for  Obscurity,&quot;  Doolin  said.  &quot;T'll  be  your  first  publisher.  You'll  be  in  good  company  with  Mayakovski.  Who  is  she-the  woman  with  the  mustard  on  her  lips?&quot;  &quot;Dark-eyed  gymnast,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;She  de-  fected-from  Ohio.&quot;  &quot;I  got  it!&quot;  Doolin  cried.  &quot;Got  what?&quot;  &quot;Obscurity  and  a  Speck&quot;  “YOU  said,&quot;  she  wrote  me  one  day,  &quot;that  you  won't  feel  you  really  live  here  until  you  get  a  letter.  Can  I  tell  you  a  story  about  a  journey  to  which  a  woman  has  become  somewhat  addicted?  I  could  draw  a  map  with  the  stops  at  the  stations  along  her  way:  Howard,  Jar-  vis,  Morse-those  good  English-butler  names-but  a  map  wouldn't  tell  how  far  she  really  travels,  or  how  it  feels  to  wait  at  the  edge  of  sunlight  on  a  wooden  platform  in  the  company  of  pigeons  to  board  the  train.  &quot;  'Hello  again,  she  tells  the  pigeons.  Hello  again,  she  tells  herself.  &quot;Picture  the  shades  along  the  route  in  the  apartment  buildings  that  face  the  tracks,  all  drawn,golden  in  the  sun,  no  other  window  standing  open  like  yours.  It's  two  in  the  afternoon  and  the  city  feels  almost  deserted,  everyone  at  work  or  school,  and  here  she  is  alone  on  an  Indian-summer  day,  coat  off,  that  lilac  bra  visible  through  her  white  blouse  which  is  reflecting  light  like  a  golden  shade.  Usually  you  raise  it  slowly,  but  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  10,  1997  sometimes  let  it  fly  from  your  hand.  &quot;She  nevergoes  the  back-alley  way  even  though  she  believed  it  when  you  told  her  that  it's  a  4672616e6365ian  street  by  night.  She's  loyal  to  the  way  she  came  the  first  time,  when  she  felt  a  little  lost.  Can  you  imagine  what  she  felt?-the  crazy  chance  she  was  taking?  &quot;Do  you  believe  she  actually  came-  walked  past  the  phantom  Doorman,  past  the  Desk  Clerk,  who,  if  there  were  one,  would  be  dressed  in  black  like  the  Desk  Clerk  in  Heartbreak  Hotel,  you  know-  one  of  those  guys  who's  'been  so  long  on  lonely  street  they  ain't  ever  gonna  look  back.'  And  the  Bellboy  in  his  little  suit  would  be  a  wizened  old  man  by  now.  &quot;She  climbs  the  stairs  with  their  car-  peting  worn  from  countless  footsteps,  some  of  them  hers,  and  makes  her  way  down  a  corridor  that's  dark  even  in  mid-  day.  Do  you  believe  his  story-you  who  were  so  worried  to  find  yourself  in  Chap-  ter  1,  as  though  beginnings  aren't  always  the  best  part?  &quot;Consider  this  a  letter,  although  it's  turning  into  a  flashback.  Doesn't  every  novel  need  one?  Do  you  have  them  after  she's  gone?  What  words  do  you  use  to  describe  the  two  of  them  when  you  think  of  times  together  like  that  afternoon  it  stormed?  &quot;This  flashback  is  like  adéja  vu  I  have  each  time  I  climb  the  stairs  again:  an  image  of  that  woman,  standing  as  she  didthe  first  time,  wondering  whether  to  knock,  listening  at  your  door.  On  the  other  side  she  can  hear  wind,  anEl  train  going  by,  chiming  bells,  an  interval  of  silence  played  by  a  saxophone  at  rest.&quot;  HE  afternoon  it  stormed,  it  seemed  as  if  we  were  able  to  make  the  rain  go  faster.  Her  moans  like  a  countdown;  her  lilac-painted  fingernails  pinching  her  pink  nipples.  Had  she  painted  them  to  match  her  bra?  Thereseemed  always  something  new  to  invent  between  us;  even  after  she'd  gone,  there  was  always  one  more  thing  I  wanted  to  tell  her.  I  wanted  to  tell  her  what  I'd  heard  the  first  night  it  turned  cold-the  kind  of  crisp,  breath-steaming  cold  that  I'd  sometimes  tried  to  imag-  ine  during  days  back  at  the  foundry  in  [REDACTED].  In  summer,  the  workday  there  would  begin  at  five  in  the  morning,  in  an  attempt  to  deal  with  the  heat;  by  nine  we'd  be  popping  salt  tablets.  Shivering  on  the  flop-out  bed,  wound  in  the  bedspread,  I  was  trying  to  read  LUNCH  AT  THE  LOYOLA  ARMS  to  the  sound  of  Mr.  Davi,  the  Albanian  janitor,  who  was  trying  to  getthe  heat  going.  I  pictured  him  in  the  furnace  room  whacking  with  a  crowbar,  as  if  he  could  beat  the  stubborn  old  furnace  into  action.  On  one  occasion  when  I'd  been  doing  my  laundry  in  the  basement,  Davi  showed  me  his  collection  of  the  flotsam  he'd  skimmed  from  the  garbage  he  hauled-skin  magazines,  compromis-  ing  photographs,  lacy  panties.  Having  shared  this  confidence,  he  wanted  to  know  about  college  girls.  &quot;I  should  have  gone  to  college  and  become  a  doctor  or  an  engineer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  came  to  [REDACTED]  instead,  and  now  look.&quot;  Daviand  his  family  lived  in  the  base-  ment  apartment,  behind  what  sounded  like  a  half-dozen  locks,  as  if  they  were  expecting  the  K.G.B.  At  least  it  felt  that  way  the  one  time  I'd  knocked  on  his  door  to  ask  if  he  could  come  up  and  help  me  getthe  window  unstuck.  It  was  Mel-  ody's  theory  that  Davi  pounded  the  pipes  to  convince  the  tenants  that  the  cold  radiators  were  on-&quot;the  psychosomatic  heat  of  the  Loyola  Arms,&quot;  she  called  it.  She  called  him  &quot;Salvador  Davi,  the  surrealist  janitor&quot;  after  he'd  opened  the  door  on  us  one  afternoon.  I  wasn't  even  aware  it'd  happened  until,  later,  Natasha  said,  &quot;You're  a  cool  customer.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;The  janitor  comes  in  andyou  never  missed  a  beat.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Davi&quot;  &quot;Who  else?  A  paunchy  guy  with  a  mustache,  standing  there  with  a  crow-  bar.  I  waited  for  you  to  say  something.  He  just  stood  with  his  mouth  open  watch-  ing  us  mating,  and  finally  gave  this  apol-  ogetic  little  bow  and  turned  and  went  quietly  out  the  door.  You  didn't  notice?&quot;  &quot;You  think  I  would  have  simply  continued?&quot;  &quot;See,  I  misread  you.You're  a  ro-  mantic  after  all.&quot;  Wrapped  in  a  bedspread,  listening  to  the  psychosomatic  heat  that  first  night  in  fall  when  the  wind  off  the  lake  smelled  of  its  glacial  past,  I  recalled  a  grade-  school  day  in  Indian  summer.  I  was  re-  turning  to  school  from  lunch,  taking  a  meandering,  roundabout  way  and  try-  ing  to  work  up  the  nerve  to  cut  that  af-  ternoon  and  hang  out  on  the  railroad  tracks  with  Stash,  when  I  saw  the  alk-  ies  were  back.  They'd  been  away.  Trucks  would  come  to  the  neighborhood  every  fall  and  take  them  off  to  [REDACTED]  to  pick  apples.  Now  they  were  back,  with  bags  of  apples  and  money  for  booze,  gathered  around  a  hydrant  that  trickled  water  along  the  side  street  of  broken  glass  where  old  cars  were  dumped.  Some  of  them  lived  there  during  the  summer,  sleeping  in  junked  cars  the  way  campers  might  use  a  tent.  The  street  dead-ended  in  the  3V's  Bird  Food  Factory,  and  from  the  factory's  screened  windows  came  the  exotic  cries  and  chatter  of  parakeets,  canaries,  mynahs,  and  Java  birds  singing  out,  perhaps  in  response  to  the  excited  twittering  of  sparrows  that  were  bathing  in  the  sky-reflecting  pond  that  spread  from  the  hydrant.  I  wanted  to  tell  her  how  after  a  while,  when  the  radiators  stopped  their  metal-  Tic  knocking,  I'd  heard  another  dull  pound-  ing-one  I  hadn't  heard  for  weeks-and  I'd  begun  to  wonder  if  I'd  ever  see  her  again.  It  was  the  old  woman  in  the  flat  below,  banging  with  her  broom  handle  the  way  she  did  those  afternoons  when  the  two  of  us,  Natasha  and  I,  were  in  bed  again.  This  time,  alone,  I  sat  perfectly  still  upon  the  bed.  Thump,  thump,  thump  it  continued,  until  I  began  to  wonder  if  she  was  trying  to  communicate  through  some  code.  I  decided  that  if  she  was  healthy  enough  to  stand  on  a  chair  and  pound  the  ceiling  with  a  broom,  it  couldn't  bean  SOS.  Maybe  she  was  simply  a  little  cracked,  like  whoever  that  voice  belonged  to  which  I  could  sometimes  hear  travelling  up  thepipes  in  my  bathroom  lateat  night,  repeat-  ing  the  same  keened,  nearly  unintelli-  gible  phrase,  &quot;Don't  you  wanna?  Don't  you  wanna?&quot;  Although  it  could  just  as  well  have  been  someone  calling  a  name-  &quot;Donna&quot;-over  and  over.  Night  brought  out  moans  like  that  in  theold  hotel,  sounds  I  hadn't  noticed  at  first.  Maybe  they  were  ghosts;  maybe  they  were  flashbacks,  moans  left  behind.  If  so,I  had  my  own  to  contribute:  the  way  she  looked  that  afternoon  when  we  heard  the  windblown  slant  of  rain  beating  glass  panes  and  pattering  on  the  linoleum  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;As  if  the  floor  was  tile,&quot;  she  said  later.  Racing  against  my  ear,  her  breath  became  part  of  the  hiss  of  rain,  her  hands  roseto  her  breasts,  pinching  her  nipples,  making  herself  ery  out  again  and  again.  True  or  not,  I  wanted  to  tell  her  that  I  knew  why  the  old  lady  pounded  the  ceiling.  Because  she  was  lonely.  What  we'd  assumed  was  raps  of  disapprobation  was  actually  applause.  