 T  was  Matthew  who  killed  the  elk.  I  was  only  trying  to  learn  how  it  was  done.  My  first  year  in  the  valley,  I  knew  next  to  nothing,  though  when  only  a  week  of  hunting  season  remained  and  still  I  had  no  meat,  I  knew  enough  to  ask  Matthew  m  for  help.  People  told  me  '  he  didn't  like  new  people  coming  into  the  valley  and  that  he  wouldn't  help  me,  wouldn't  help  anyone-but  when  I  went  to  his  cabin  and  asked,  he  said  he  would,  just  this  once,  and  that  I  would  have  to  watch  carefully,  and  learn:  he  would  only  hunt  an  elkfor  me  once.  We  canoed  across  the  Yaak  River  and  went  into  the  wilderness.  We  found  a  bull's  tracks,  and  followed  the  bull  for  three  days,  killing  it  on  the  fourth.  Afterward,  Matthew  built  a  fire  in  the  woods  next  to  the  elk  to  warm  us  as  we  went  to  work.  There  was  plenty  of  dry  wood  and  it  was  easy  to  make  a  roaring  fire:  its  flames  grew  almost  as  tall  as  we  were,  and  they  lit  up  the  woods.  The  orange  light  danced  against  the  elk's  hide  and  against  his  antlers,  mak-  ing  it  seem  as  if  he  had  come  back  to  life.  In  his  final  death  leap  the  elk  had  got  tangled  in  the  blowdown  and  now  hung  there,  several  feet  off  the  ground.  Matthew  crawled  underneath  and  began  cutting.  Therewas  a  rasping  sound  of  his  knife  against  the  coarse  hair  and  thick  skin  and  cartilage,  and  from  time  to  time  he  had  to  stop  and  sharpen  his  knife  with  a  whetstone.  &quot;Nothing  in  the  world  dulls  a  steel  blade  like  elk  hair,&quot;  he  said.  He  was  do-  ing  a  neat  job.  &quot;I'd  like  a  stone  knife  someday,  black  obsidian,&quot;  he  said.  I  added  wood  to  the  fire.  I  would  not  have  believed  that  you  could  skin  such  an  animal.  It  was  surely  enough  meat  for  the  coming  year.  By  morning  we  had  the  elk  skinned  and  the  immense  antlers  sawed  off.  Mat-  thew  had  brought  a  small  wood-handled  folding  saw-its  blade  was  now  ru-  ined-and  he  tossed  it  into  the  fire.  The  bull's  immense  hindquarters-heavier  than  a  man's  body-were  hanging  from  trees.  So,  too,  were  the  shoulders.  We  filled  our  packs  with  the  loose  meat-all  the  neck  roasts,  tenderloins,  neck  loins,  and  lengths  of  backstrap  like  deep-red  anacondas.  In  lifting  the  hind-  quarters  and  shoulders,  we  became  cov-  ered  with  blood.  I  was  glad  that  the  bears  were  already  in  hibernation.  The  fire  had  sprawled  and  wandered  through  the  night.  Ashes  and  charred  half-lengths  of  timber  lay  ina  circle  thirty  feet  across:  a  testament  to  what  had  happened  here.  We  roasted  some  of  the  ribs  over  the  coals  of  the  fire  and  chewed  on  them  for  a  long  time.  We  ate  a  whole  side  of  the  trimmings  from  the  elk  skeleton-the  bones  were  stripped  clean  and  gleaming  when  we  were  done-and  then  broke  the  other  side  in  half  with  the  hatchet.  We  tied  the  rib  cages  to  our  packs  like  a  frame;  they  would  help  hold  in  place  the  shifting  weight  of  the  meat,  which  was  still  warm  against  our  backs.  I  gathered  a  few  stones  as  we  were  about  to  leave  and,  not  knowing  why,  stacked  them  where  the  elk  had  fallen,  now  a  pile  of  hooves,  shins,  and  hair.  Matthew  carried  the  antlers-settled  them  over  his  shoulders  upside  down-  and  with  their  long  tips  and  tines  fur-  rowing  the  snow  behind  him  he  looked  as  if  hewere  in  a  yoke  and  plowing  the  snow.  I  carried  the  wet  hide  atop  my  pack  of  meat,  increasing  the  weight  of  my  pack  up  to  around  a  hundred  and  thirty  pounds.  Matthew  said  it  was  im-  portant  to  carry  out  the  extraneous  stuff  first-the  antlers,  the  hide-before  our  resolve  weakened  and  we  were  tempted  to  leave  them  behind  for  the  wolves.  It  began  to  snow  again.  I  wondered  where  the  other  elk  were,  if  they  knew  that  our  hunt  for  them  was  over.  We  stayed  on  the  ridges.  Under  such  a  load,  our  steps  were  small  and  slow.  We  travelled  a  mile,  dropped  our  weight,  then  went  back  to  where  we'd  left  all  the  other  meat,  and  carried  it  to  the  point  we'd  got  to  before-each  of  us  carrying  a  hindquarter  on  his  back,  or  dragging  it  behind  like  a  sled.  And  so  we  moved  across  the  valley,  slowly,  as  if  in  some  eternal  meat  relay-  continuously  undoing  the  progress  we'd  made,  working  hours  to  move  the  whole  mass  only  one  mile,  at  which  point  we  then  started  all  over  again.  The  winter-  short  days  passed  quickly,  and  we  slept  soundly  through  the  nights.  THE  snow  kept  coming.  We  dropped  off  one  ridge  down  into  a  creek  and  ascended  another,  and  Matthew  said  he  knew  where  we  were.  After  the  second  or  third  day,  theravensappeared.  They  landed  in  front  of  us  and  strutted  with  outstretched  wings,  drawing  little  tracings  in  the  snow,  barking  and  caw-  ing  in  their  voices  that  were  alternately  shrill  and  hoarse,  as  if  they  were  hurl-  ing  different  languages  at  us.  Sometimes  they  landed  behind  us,  darted  in  and  pecked  at  whatever  section  of  the  elk  we  were  dragging,  but  usually  they  picked  at  the  meat  fragments  in  the  snow.  On  the  third  day  there  was  a  mo-  ment  of  startling  beauty.  We  were  walk-  ing  in  a  fog  so  thick  that  we  could  barely  see  more  than  a  few  feet  in  front  of  us.  We  knew  to  stay  on  the  ridge.  Four  ravens  were  following  us,  walking  behind  us  in  their  penguin  strut.  And  then  to  our  left,  to  the  west,  a  slot  &amp;  appeared  in  the  fog,  a  slot  of  pale—  blue  sky,  and  through  the  slot  there  ©  &amp;  was  a  shaft  of  gold  light  illuminating  3  the  forest  below  us.  The  shaft  was  the  only  thing  we  could  see  in  the  storm.  The  wind  was  blowing  north,  the  di-  rection  we  were  going,  and  for  a  while  the  shaft  travelled  with  us.  As  it  did,  it  kept  revealing  more  of  the  same  uncut,  untouched  forest.  The  impression  it  made  was  that  the  uncut  forest  would  never  end.  In  less  than  a  minute,  the  shaft  had  moved  on-the  wind  was  about  thirty  miles  an  hour-but  the  sight  has  stayed  with  me,  and  nei-  ther  Matthew  nor  I  said  anything  about  it  to  each  other,  though  we  did  stop  and  watch  it,  as  if  unsure  of  what  it  was  we  were  seeing.  E  ate  on  the  elk  as  we  travelled,  but  after  four  days  I  wanted  bread  or  potatoes.  I  was  tired  of  all  meat.  I  wanted  an  apple  pie,  dense  with  sugar,  and  a  hot  bath.  The  massive  antlers  had  sunk  lower  on  Matthew's  shoulders,  and  the  plow  they  made  cut  deeper  in  the  snow.  Sometimes  their  heavy  tips  struck  a  rock  beneath  the  snow  and  made  a  c/nking  sound.  The  weight  of  the  antlers  was  starting  to  wear  Matthew's  skin  raw,  even  though  he  had  cut  a  small  strip  of  hide  to  use  as  a  cushion.  A  thin  red  &quot;Y&quot;  now  ran  down  his  back,  merging  just  below  his  shoulders.  The  furrows  in  the  snow  behind  him,  wide  as  the  antlers,  looked  like  the  boundaries  for  a  small  road,  a  lane,  and  within  them  we  sometimes  spotted  the  tracks  of  the  creatures  that  were  following  us:  the  ravens,  coyotes,  and  wolves.  We  were  descending  slowly,  and  were  beginning  to  see  the  tracks  of  other  ani-  mals  again-deer,  moose,  and  elk,  though  the  elk  tracks  were  those  ofcows  and  calves,  not  bulls.  We  were  down  out  of  the  high  coun-  try  and  into  the  dense  forest.  It  was  growing  warmer  at  the  lower  elevation,  so  that,  rather  than  snow  falling,  there  was  a  sleety  drizzle,  which  was  more  chilling  than  any  storm  or  blizzard.  We  came  across  a  dropped  moose  antler,  rest-  ingupright  on  the  snow-we  could  read  his  tracks  leading  to  it,  and  leading  away  from  it-and  the  antler,  upturned,  was  full  of  water  and  slush  from  the  sleet.  We  knelt  and  took  turns  drinking  from  it,  without  disturbing  it.  We  were  almost  home.  One  more  night,  and  the  next  day.  A  year's  worth  of  meat,  put  away  safely.  The  &quot;Y&quot;  on  Matthew's  back  wid-  ened,  but  he  was  moving  stronger  again.  I  was  shivering  hard  by  now.  I  was  drenched.  For  a  long  time  the  effort  of  hauling  and  skidding  the  meat  had  been  enough  to  keep  me  warm,  but  now  that  effort  wasn't  enough.  I  was  cold  and  I  needed  help  from  the  outside.  My  body  could  no  longer  hold  off  the  whole  mass  of  winter.  I  was  without  reserves.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  stop  and  light  a  fire?&quot;  Matthew  asked,  watching  my  slowing  movements,  my  clumsiness,  my  giving-upness.  I  nodded,  still  lucid  enough  to  know  that  hypothermia  had  arrived.  Matthew  seemed  to  be  a  great  distance  away,  and  I  felt  that  he  was  studying  me,  evaluating  me.  We  were  no  longer  partners  in  the  hunt,  brothers  in  the  hunt-brothers  in  any-  thing-and  as  my  mind  began  to  close  down,  chamber  by  chamber,  I  had  the  feeling  that  Matthew  was  going  to  let  me  freeze:  that  he  had  run  me  into  the  ground,  had  let  me  haul  out  half  the  elk,  and  now,  only  a  day's  journey  from  town,  he  was  going  to  let  winter  have  me.  He  would  carry  the  rest  of  the  meat  out  himself,  leaving  me  to  disappear  be-  neath  the  snow.  He  stood  there  waiting.  I  knelt  and  slipped  out  of  my  pack.  I  then  lost  my  balance  and  tippedover  in  the  snow.  Not  thinking  clearly-not  thinking  at  all-I  searched  through  my  pack  for  matches,  shivering.  I  found  them,  held  the  small  box  tightly  in  my  gloved  hands,  then  remembered  that  I  needed  wood.  Matthew  continued  watching  me.  He  had  not  taken  his  pack  of-as  if  he  had  no  intention  of  stopping  here  anyway-and  the  antlers  had  been  with  him  so  long  that  they  seemed  to  be  growing  out  of  him.  I  moved  off  into  the  trees  and  down  a  slope  and  began  indiscriminately  snapping  twigs  and  gathering  branches,  dropping  much  of  what  I  picked  up.  Matthew  stayed  up  on  the  hill  above,  watching.  The  rain  and  sleet  kept  coming  down.  He  was  drenched,  too-there  was  ice  on  his  antlers-but  he  seemed  to  have  a  fire  and  a  hardness  in  him  that  I  knew  I  didn't  have.  I  heaped  the  branches,  some  green  and  some  dry,  into  a  small  pile,  and  be-  gan  striking  matches;  and  the  sodden  pile  of  wood  would  not  light.  I  tried  un-  81  til  I  was  out  of  matches,  then  rose  and  went  back  up  to  my  pack  to  look  for  more.  I  was  moving  slowly  and  wanted  to  lie  down.  I  had  to  keep  going,  but  I  knew  that  I  wasn't  going  to  find  any  more  matches.  &quot;This  way,&quot;  Matthew  said  finally,  taking  a  cigarette  lighter  out  of  his  pack.  &quot;Look  at  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Watch.&quot;  He  walked  down  to  the  nearest  dead  tree,  an  old  wind-blasted  fir  tree,  shrouded  dense  with  black  hanging  lichen.  &quot;This  is  what  you  do,&quot;  he  said.  His  words  came  in  breaths  of  steam  rising  into  the  rain.  He  stood  under  the  canopyof  the  tree's  branches  and  moss  cloak  and  snapped  the  lighter  a  couple  of  times,  holding  it  right  up  against  the  lichen  tendrils.  On  the  third  snap  the  lichen  caught,  burned  blue  for  a  moment,  then  leapt  into  quick  orange  flame.  It  was  like  something  chemical-the  whole  tree,  or  the  shell  of  lichen  around  it,  metamorphosed  into  bright  crackling  fire:  the  lichen  burning  explosively  and  the  sudden  shock  of  heat,  the  updraft,  in  turn  lighting  the  lichen  above,  accel-  erating  the  rush  of  flame  asif  climbing  a  ladder.  It  was  a  forty-foot-tall  tree,  and  it  was  on  fire  from  top  to  bottom  in  about  five  seconds.  &quot;That's  how  you  do  it,&quot;  Matthew  said,  stepping  back.  I  had  stopped  shivering,  my  blood  heated  by  one  last  squeeze  of  adrenaline  at  the  sight;  but  now,  even  as  I  watched  the  flames,  the  chill,  and  then  the  shivering,  returned.  &quot;You'd  better  get  on  over  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They  don't  burn  long.&quot;  I  walked  over  to  the  burning  tree.  There  was  a  lot  of  heat;  the  snow  in  all  directions  glistened-but  I  knew  that  the  heat  wasn't  going  to  last.  Flaming  wisps  of  lichen  separated  from  the  tree  and  floated  upward  in  curls  before  cool-  ing  and  descending.  By  the  time  they  landed  on  me,  they  were  almost  burnt  out-charcoal  skeletons  of  the  lichen.  A  few  of  the  tree's  branches  burned  and  crackled,  but  that  was  pretty  much  it;  the  fire  was  gone.  I  wouldn't  say  I  was  warm,  but  I  had  stopped  shivering.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  Matthew  said.  &quot;Let's  go  find  another  one.&quot;  He  set  off  into  the  rain,  the  antlers  behind  him  plowing  a  path.  And  that  was  howwe  came  out  of  the  mountains,  inthat  last  night  and  the    next  day,  moving  from  tree  to  tree-  looking  for  the  right  one,  properly  dead-through  the  drizzle,  from  one  tower  of  flame  to  the  next,  Matthew  probing  the  right  ones  with  hiscigar-  ette  lighter,  testing  them,  always  choos-  ing  the  right  ones.  That  was  how  we  walked  through  that  night-the  trees  sizzling  and  steaming  after  we  were  done  with  them-and  on  into  the  gray  rainy  day.  We  wereback  into  country  that  I  knew  well,  even  underneath  all  the  snow.  We  were  seeing  the  tracks  of  wolves,  and  finding  some  of  their  kills.  I  had  stopped  shivering,  though  we  con-  tinued  lighting  tree  torches-leaving  a  crooked,  wandering  pathof  them  be-  hind  us.  I  suspect  thatin  twenty  years  I  will  still  be  able  to  trace  ourjourney  back-  ward,  back  up  the  mountain  from  torched  tree  to  torched  tree.  Some  will  be  fallen  and  rotting  black  husks,  oth-  ers  might  still  be  standing.  In  twenty  years,  I'll  be  able  to  return  to  where  it  all  started-that  point  where  we  first  saw  the  elk,  and  then  lost  him,  and  then  found  him  again,  and  killed  him.  From  among  the  stones  and  ferns  and  forest,  there  will  be  a  piece  of  charcoal,  a  fire-  blackened  rock,  an  antler  ina  tree,  a  rusting  saw  blade,  even  a  scabbed-over  set  of  initials,  where  Matthew  marked  his  kill,  although  as  the  years  go  on,  those  initials  will  be  harder  to  find,     until  finally  you  will  have  to  know  ex-  actly  where  they  are,  and  have  some  sort  of  guide,  someone  who  has  actu-  ally  been  there  before,  to  show  you.  THE  rut  was  on  as  we  approached  town  the  next  day-the  giant  bucks  chasing  the  does-and  though  we  were  exhausted,  we  could  see  that  we  had  to  shoot  a  deer.  As  we  drew  nearer  the  village-the  forest  ripe  with  the  scent  of  rut  musk-  we  saw  a  swarm  of  antlers,  dozens  of  bucks  prowling  the  woods,  mesmerized  by  sex,  by  creation,  by  the  needs  of  the  future,  and  we  were  almost  homewhen  we  saw  the  buck  we  wanted.  We  saw  him  because  he  had  seen  us,  and  wascoming  up  the  hill  toward  us-or,  rather,  toward  Matthew.  He  was  drawn  by  the  sight  of  the  giant  antlers  strapped  to  Matthew's  back.  We  were  moving  through  dense  brush  and  it's  possible  that  was  all  he  could  see,  and  he  came  forward  with  a  strange  aggression.  He  was  wet  from  the  rain.  His  antlers  were  black-brown,  from  his  having  lived  in  a  dark  forest,  and  rose  three  feet  above  his  head  and  extended  beyond  the  tips  of  his  out-  stretched  ears.  It  did  not  seem  possible  that  he  could  carry  such  a  weight  on  his  head.  Matthew  dropped  to  his  knees.  The  deer  stopped,  then  came  closer,  still  entranced  by  the  antlers,  and  Matthew  raised  his  rifle  and  shot  the  deer  through  ELK  the  neck,  now  not  twenty  yards  away.  The  deer's  head  snapped  back,  and  we  saw  a  thin  pattern  of  blood  spray  across  the  snow  behind  him,but  the  deer  did  not  drop.  Instead  it  whirled  and  ran  down  the  hill,  hard  and  strong.  I  wondered  if  Matthew  could  ever  finish  anything  gracefully.  We  had  to  track  it.  The  snow  was  deep  and  slushy.  There  was  little  if  any  blood  trail  to  follow,  and  the  big  buck's  tracks  merged  with  hun-  dreds  of  others:  the  carnival  of  the  rut.  We  stood  there  in  the  hissing,  steady  rain,  breathing  our  own  milky  vapors.  &quot;Fuck,&quot;  Matthew  said.  He  looked  down  toward  the  river  in  the  direction  the  buck  had  run.  He  dropped  his  pack  in  the  snow.  The  bloody  &quot;Y&quot;  on  his  chest  was  the  same  as  the  one  on  his  back;  the  two  together  were  like  the  delicate,  per-  fect,  world-shaped  markings  on  the  wings  of  some  obscure  tropical  butterfly.  I  dropped  my  pack  as  well.  A  blood  trail  was  beginning  to  form  on  my  own  back  and  chest.  Not  to  be  wearing  a  pack  after  hav-  ing  carried  one  for  so  long  gave  us  a  feeling  like  flight;  as  if,  suddenly,  we  could  have  gone  for  another  seventy-  five  miles.  We  rested  a  moment,  then  donned  our  packs  again.  The  rain  and  slush  continued  to  beat  down  on  us.  We  kept  stopping  to  rest,  ass-whipped.  We  began  lighting  trees  again-tree  after  tree,  following  the  wounded  buck's  tracks.  A  drop  of  blood  here;  a  loose  hair  there.  We  found  the  buck  down  at  the  river,  in  a  backwater  slough,  thrashing  around  in  six  feet  of  water,  having  broken  through  askin  of  thawing  ice  as  he  tried  to  cross.  We  watched  him  for  a  moment  as  he  swam  in  circles  with  only  his  head  and  the  tower  of  antlers  above  the  water.  He  was  choking  on  his  blood,  coughing  sprays  of  it  across  the  water  with  each  exhalation,  and  swallowing  blood  with  each  breath-the  bullet  had  missed  an  artery,  but  severed  a  vessel-and  his  face  was  ared  mask  of  blood.  He  glared  at  us  as  he  swam-a  red  king,  defiant.  It  was  a  strange  sight,  those  giant  antlers  going  around  and  around  in  the  small  pond-like  some  new  creature  be-  ing  born  into  the  world.  Matthew  raised  his  rifle,  waited  for  the  deer  to  swim  back  around,  closer  to  the  edge  of  the  shore.  The  deer  continued  to  watch  us  as  it  swam-head  held  high,  drowning  in  blood.  Matthew  shot  it  inthe  neck  again,  breaking  it  this  time,  and  the  deer  stopped  swimming.  The  antlers  sank.  We  sat  and  stared  at  it  for  a  long  time-  watching  it  motionless  through  the  re-  fraction  of  water-as  if  expecting  it  to  come  back  to  life.  Another  buck,  following  the  trail  of  the  giant's  hock  musk,  appeared  on  the  other  side  of  the  pond,  lowered  its  head,  trying  to  decipher  the  cone  of  scent  that  had  drifted  its  way.  We  travelled  upriver  to  where  Matthew  had  left  the  canoe.  It  was  under  a  shell  of  snow.  We  got  it  out  and  went  and  got  the  elk  and  loaded  it,  part  by  part,  into  the  canoe,  until  the  canoe  waslow  in  the  water.  Dusk  was  coming  on  again  and  we  could  see  a  few  lights  across  the  river,  the  lights  of  town.  We  had  been  gone  only  two  weeks  but  it  felt  like  a  century.  I  stayed  behind  while  Matthew  made  two  crossings  with  the  meat;  then  he  came  back  for  me.  The  rain  had  stopped  and  the  sky  was  clearing  and  Matthew  said  we  had  to  get  the  deer  out  now  as  the  pond  would  freeze  thick  if  we  waited  until  the  next  day.  We  waded  out  into  the  pond  together.  The  water  was  slightly  warmer  than  the  air.  Under  water  the  deer  was  light,  and  we  were  able  to  muscle  him  awkwardly  up  to  the  shore.  Then  we  dragged  him  over  to  the  canoe-gutted  him  quickly-  loaded  him,  and  set  out  across  one  more  time,  riding  lower  than  ever.  Freezing  seemed  to  be  a  more  imminent  danger  than  drowning,  but  we  reached  the  other  shore,  sledded  the  canoe  up  onto  the  gravel,  and  finally  we  quit;  abandoned  the  meat,  hundreds  of  pounds  of  it,  only  a  short  distance  from  home,  and  ran  stum-  bling  and  falling  up  the  hill  toward  town.  Lights  were  on  in  the  bar.  We  went  straight  in  and  lay  down  next  to  thebig  woodstove,  shivering  and  in  pain.  The  bar-  tenders,  Artie  and  Charlie,  came  over  with  blankets  and  hides  and  began  helping  us  out  of  our  wet  clothes  and  wrapping  the  hides  around  us.  They  started  heating  wa-  ter  on  the  stove  for  baths  and  making  hot  tea  for  us  todrink;  it  was  the  first  fluid  we'd  had  in  days  that  was  neither  snow  nor  cold  creek  water,  and  the  heat  of  it  made  us  vomit  the  second  the  hot  tea  hit  our  stomachs.  Artie  looked  at  the  meat  we  had  spit  up  and  said,  &quot;They  got  an  elk.&quot;  