  THE  VEGETABLE  MARKET  USSIA-all  you  can  do  is  leave  it!  All  week  I  had  been  wondering  why  I  was  doing  this  to  myself,  why  I  was  in  this  city  and  not  in  [REDACTED]  or  4974616c79.  It  was  as  if  the  people  here  had  only  re-  cently  come  in  from  the  village  and  didn't  know  how  to  walk  down  a  street.  They  plod  along,  yelling,  shoving,  el-  bowing,  spitting.  No  one  says  &quot;Excuse  me.&quot;  They  pay  no  attention,  or  just  bel-  low  swearwords.  You  have  to  kick  them!  And  no  sooner  have  you  worked  your  way  free  than  they  push  you  onto  a  bus  or  into  the  path  of  a  car.  Or  you  save  yourself  by  standing  flush  against  a  wall  like  a  beggar  and  don't  know  what  to  do  next.  And  everywhere,  like  some  pecu-  liarity  of  the  climate,  is  this  stench  of  old  farmer  cheese,  embedded  filth,  and  ciga-  rette  smoke.  Sometimes  there  is  a  little  gasoline  in  it,  or  garlic,  or  toilet.  From  courtyard  doors  drift  odds  and  ends  of  meals;  stairwells  reek  of  piss.  And  when  it  comes  to  people,  you  don't  know  if  they  have  taken  on  the  stink  of  their  sur-  roundings  or  if  it's  coming  from  them.  Except  for  the  bread  and  tea,  hardly  anything  is  edible.  Even  the  milk  is  musty,  the  champagne  sugary,  the  beer  sour.  No  matter  where  you  look,  there  is  nothing  that  is  not  dented,  defective,  mended,  crooked,  scruffy,  askew,  loose,  dirty,  as  if  it  all  came  from  a  dump  and  had  just  been  crudely  patched  together  again.  Only  imports  shine.  The  madness  of  the  czars  is  the  only  culture  they  have,  but  they  manage  to  ruin  even  that.  And  all  the  while  they  talk  about  Pushkin,  fate,  and  the  Volga.  Russians  in  general  seem  to  have  been  so  conditioned  by  some  lifelong  experiment  that  apathy  marches  in  step  with  an  as-  tounding  ingenuity  for  humiliating  oth-  ers.  Everything  is  contrived  to  cause     BY  INGO  SCHULZE  people  the  greatest  possible  unpleasant,  ness,  whether  it's  alack  of  benches,  mir-  rors  hung  too  low,  repairs  that  go  on  for  years,  orthe  shopping,  which  entails  standing  in  line  three  times  for  a  pat  of  butter.  Functioning  toilets  are  to  be  found,  if  at  all,  only  in  hotels.  Be  it  a  mu-  seum  guard,  a  waiter,  a  travel  guide-they  are  all  permanently  offended,  foultem-  pered,  testy,  gruff.  They  speak  without  even  looking  up;  if  you  ask  them  some-  thing,  they  squint  as  if  they  are  about  to  spit  at  your  feet.  If  a  woman  is  beautiful,  she  can  be  bought;  if  a  car  is  new,  the  owner  is  a  criminal.  Never,  not  in  any  other  country,  have  I  felt  so  vulnerable,  so  defenseless.  I  knew:  If  something  hap-  pens  to  me  here,  no  one  will  help  me.  If  I  stumble,  they'll  trample  me.  If  I  scream,  they'll  rob  and  strip  me.  They  can  spot  foreigners  at  a  glance.  There  is  hardly  any  opportunity  in  daily  life  to  mix  with  Russians  and  just  stand  aside  for  a  mo-  ment  and  watch.  That  week,  the  weather  was  warm  and  clear.  But  theold  women,  their  bod-  ies  wrapped  in  coats  and  scarves,  stood  on  scraps  of  cardboard,  as  if  they  still  had  to  protect  themselves  against  the  cold  as  they  held  out  bread,  sausage,  and  eggs  in  plastic  bags.  One  of  the  money  changers  had  taken  off  his  reflective  glasses  and  was  sunning  himself.  A  man  drained  the  last  drops  into  his  mouth  from  a  beer  bottle  held  high  above  his  head,  staggered,  stumbled,  and  then  knelt  down  on  the  warm  asphalt  behind  the  kiosks.  Others  were  already  lying  there  asleep.  Across  the  way,  under  a  portico,  some  schoolgirls  were  sitting.  They  pushed  the  short  sleeves  of  their  blouses  up  over  their  shoulders  and  leaned  back  like  the  attendants  of  Aphrodite.  A  little  farther  on,  in  a  circle  of  the  park,  a  red-headed  accordion  player  was  singing  in  front  of  shaded  benches.  A  woman  with  a  parted  wig  banged  out  the  rhythm  and  raised  her  fists  at  the  end  of  each  verse.  &quot;Anarchy,  anarchy!&quot;  she  cried.  I  bought  a  poppy-seed  pastry,  and  it  tasted  so  surprisingly  good  that  I  ate  it  on  the  spot.  I  asked  for  another,  and  it,  too,  was  truly  excellent.  It  was  fun  to  give  out  rubles  and  actually  get  something  for  them.  Every  second  stand  offered  the  same  wares,  in  the  event  you  forgot  to  buy  something  at  the  first  one.  I  watched  a  saleswoman  for  a  long  time.  As  if  blind,  she  moved  her  hands  across  eggs  set  on  tiers  of  cardboard.  If  she  got  a  customer,  she  first  took  the  sales  slip  between  thumb  and  forefinger,  asif  she  were  picking  up  a  butterfly  by  its  wing,  and  then  slid  it  down  over  a  giant  pin.  From  there,  her  hands  floated  back  across  the  rows,the  eggs  appearing  between  her  fin-  gers,  one  by  one,  like  a  magician's  white  balls.  Afterward,  her  hands  came  to  rest  on  the  eggs  again,  as  if  her  palms  and  fingertips  sensed  the  earth's  gravity  there.  On  the  subway  escalator,  Petersbur-  gers  glided  past  me.  There  was  not  a  woman  among  them  who  was  not  coiffed,  made-up,  and  neatly  dressed.  And  the  men,  one  step  below,  gazed  up  at  them  as  if  at  something  precious.  On  the  platform  was  a  convivial  shoving  throng,  a  kind  of  collective  forward  mo-  tion.  If  I  fumbled  or  lost  my  step,  I  was  promptly  able  to  regain  my  balance  against  strangers'  shoulders  or  backs.  When  I  got  to  the  vegetable  market,  I  walked  between  rows  of  venders  who  waved  to  me  as  if  they  were  fanning  themselves.  I  tried  some  watermelon  and  tasted  the  honey.  But  the  consideration  accorded  me  was  equalled  by  the  cruelty  with  which  people  struck  at  a  beggar  woman  with  canes  the  moment  she  touched  a  fruit.  She  let  out  a  groan,  bury-  ing  her  face  in  her  hands.  There  wasn't  a  spot  on  her  that  wasn't  bloodied  or  scabbed.  I  took  two  steps  toward  her,  put  a  ten-thousand-ruble  note  in  her  half-  closed  hand-and  retreated  before  the  pungent  odor.  She  looked  at  the  note  for  a  long  time,  then  stuffed  it  into  her  pocket  and  gaped  FILIP  PAGOW  SKI  at  me.  Instead  of  heeding  my  waving  hands,  however,  she  bowed  before  me,  blessed  me,  thanked  me,  wept,  blessed,  thanked,  babbling  with  a  heavy  tongue,  her  eyes  staring  wide.  As  her  fingers  brushed  my  arm,  I  winced.  Slowly  she  sank  to  her  knees  be-  fore  me,  touching  my  ankles  and  press-  ing  her  brow  to  my  sandals.  If  I  didn't  want  to  step  on  her,  I  would  have  to  stand  still.  I  could  feel  her  lips  between  the  straps.  In  her  gratitude,  she  grasped  my  calves  with  both  hands,  digging  her  nails  in  until  I  swallowed  hard  in  pain.  My  knees  buckled,  and  I  swayed  and  had  to  brace  myself  on  her  shoulders  to  keep  from  falling.  In  the  meantime,  the  vend-  ers  had  come  out  from  behind  their  stalls.  But  with  a  shake  of  the  head  I  stopped  them  from  pulling  the  old  woman  away  from  my  feet.  She  bawled,  coughed,  yammered.  Without  loosening  her  embrace,  she  worked  her  way  up  my  legs,  kiss  by  kiss.  To  calm  her,  I  patted  her  head.  In  the  next  moment,  however,  she  pressed  her  face  to  mine-I  tottered  and,  grabbing  at  her  hair,  fell  backward  and  would  have  landed  hard  on  my  back  if  two  men  hadn't  caught  me  and  gently  lowered  me  to  the  ground.  She  was  coughing  as  she  climbed  on  top  of  me.  Although  I  was  having  trouble  breathing,  I  tried  to  calm  her.  But  there  was  no  help  for  it.  Gur-  gling  from  exertion,  she  stretched  her  neck  forward  and  kissed  my  chin-and  for  a  moment  our  lips  touched.  Then  with  a  whimper  she  rolled  off  me.  I  was  close  to  tears.  The  voices  of  the  bystanders  sounded  affectionate  and  kindly.  A  young  woman  in  a  suit  bent  down,  looked  into  my  eyes,  and  said  something  in  Russian.  Others  patted  my  legs,  planted  kisses  on  the  sides  and  back  of  my  neck.  Filled  with  the  wish  to  do  good,  they  pressed  more  closely  around  me,  giving  me  apples,  pears,  radishes,  and  matryoshkas.  Two  venders  knelt  down,  loosened  my  sandals,  and  washed  my  feet  with  their  spittle  and  hair.  Then  they  lifted  me  up  stoutheartedly  and  car-  ried  me  tenderly  to  the  melon  stand,  where  they  laid  me  belly  down  on  the  quickly  cleared  wooden  table.  While  they  were  stripping  off  my  shirt  and  pants,  the  melon  vender  removed  the  cap  from  a  black  felt-tipped  marker,  checked  the  color  on  his  thumb,  and  began  writing  across  my  shoulder  in  short,  firm  strokes  that  felt  like  printed  letters.  Just  when  I  had  grown  accustomed  to  the  peculiar  charm  of  the  strokes,  they  turned  more  supple,  and  I  thought  I  recognized  num-  bers,  until  suddenly  three,  four  solid  flourishes  sent  a  shudder  through  me-  presumably  his  signature.  The  melon  vender  kissed  me  between  the  shoulder  blades  and  crouched  down  so  that  I  could  gaze  into  his  dark  eyes.  I  understood  that  he  had  given  me  his  telephone  number.  No  sooner  had  the  next  man-a  grandfather  who  had  been  selling  bun-  dles  of  chives-reached  for  the  marker  than  others  began  writing  letters  and  numbers  on  my  legs  with  ballpoint  pens.  I  first  tried  tightening  my  muscles  to  pro-  vide  as  firm  a  surface  as  possible,  but  then,  when  several  people  began  writing  at  once,  I  got  a  cramp  and  gave  that  up.  All  the  same,  I  was  enjoying  the  way  they  stretched  my  skin  between  thumbs  and  forefingers.  The  woman  in  the  suit  pushed  the  hair  from  the  nape  of  my  neck.  She  wrote  with  an  easy,  swift  hand.  I  thought  I  detected  exclamation  points.  Evidently  running  out  of  writing  room,  someone  pulled  off  my  underpants,  too.  Before  me  rose  a  pile  of  apples,  plums,  cauliflowers,  pumpkins,  radishes,  pota-  toes,  grapes,  and  other  fruits  of  the  earth.  Right  beside  them  was  another  pile  of  the  best  that  the  kiosks  had  to  offer,  from  cigarettes  and  soft  drinks  to  canned  meats  and  toothpaste,  all  the  way  to  bras-  sieres  and  a  stewpot.  Finally,  the  crowd  grew  so  large  that  I  had  to  be  turned  over  for  people  to  find  suitable  places  to  write.  I  studied  their  sweet  faces  as  they  motioned  back  and  forth  between  themselves  and  what  they  were  writing,  so  in  each  case  I  made  a  connection  between  the  address  and  the  person.  Occasionally,  I  gave  an  encour-  aging  nod  to  someone  who  was  hesitat-  ing,  offered  armpits  or  opened  an  elbow.  Some  of  them  ventured  as  far  as  my  wrists,  a  few  even  to  my  fingers.  At  about  half  past  four,  I  indicated  that  it  was  hightime  I  returned  to  my  hotel,  I  was  due  to  depart  at  six-it  was  already  too  late  for  a  light  supper.  A  few  of  them,  who  had  called  their  friends  and  neighbors,  begged  me  to  be  just  a  little  more  patient.  But  there  was  really  noth-  ing  I  could  do.  Everyone  said  how  sorry  they  were  that  I  had  so  little  time  left.  There  was  no  one  who  did  not  expressly  invite  me  home,  who  didn't  want  to  show  me  his  or  her  dacha,  Lake  Baikal,  or  the  Arctic  65  Ocean.  I  fought  back  the  tears:  such  vast  hospitality  was  embarrassing,  for  I  well  knew  how  little  they  themselves  had  to  live  on.  Yes,  they  even  called  a  second  taxi,  because  not  a  single  gift  was  to  be  left  behind.  Naturally,  I  promised  to  re-  turnvery  soon.     THE  DOORKEEPER  OF  TASS  DURING  her-  ten  years  as  doorkeeper  of  the  TASS  Building,  on  Sadovaya  Street,  Anna  Gavrinina  had  served  the  employees  of  that  institution  by  provid-  ing  both  keys  for  those  entitled  to  them  and  meticulous  information  to  anyone  who  asked  about  the  traffic  in  and  out  of  the  building.  Anna  Gavrinina  would  rather  have  vanished  into  thin  air  than  al-  low  any  unauthorized  person  to  pass  her  gate-and  she  achieved  this  solely  by  vir-  tue  of  her  authority.  But  ever  since  the  new  director  had  said  that  they  must  cut  back  on  the  num-  ber  of  staff-there  would  no  longer  be  four  doorkeepers,  working  twelve-hour  shifts,  but  two,  working  twenty-four  hours  at  a  stretch-Anna  Gavrinina  had  been  looking  for  a  new  job.  That  was  not  easy  at  age  seventy-four.  What's  more,  a  week  after  taking  over  his  new  position,  the  director  declared  that  foreigners  would  now  be  allowed  in  the  building.  Anna  Gavrinina  made  a  special  effort  to  make  things  as  pleasant  as  possible  for  the  Finns,  Americans,  and,  later,  even  the  Germans  passing  through  her  realm.  Seeing  a  foreigner  ap-  proach  the  glass  panes  of  the  entrance  door,  she  hastily  opened  the  box  at  her  right  knee  and  snatched  the  key  from  its  hook.  She  said  &quot;Good  morning,  Mister&quot;  or  &quot;Paivadi&quot;  or  &quot;Guten  Morgen,  mein  Herr,&quot;  opening  her  fist  like  a  magician.  It  tickled  when  a  foreigner  took  the  key  from  her  open  palm.  Anna  Gavrinina  had  refreshed  her  Ger-  man  with  a  dictionary  and  now  brought  two  gentlemen  to  a  halt  with  a  loud  &quot;Ach-  tung.&quot;  Unsettled  by  the  effect,  she  avoided  the  Germans'  eyes  and  looked  down  at  her  doorkeeper's  desk,  where  a  calendar  with  acolor  illustration  of  the  battleship  Aurora  was  displayed  under  plate  glass.  She  would  have  liked  to  say  something,  but  the  only  thing  she  could  think  to  do  was  present  them  with  her  little  dictio-  nary.  She  wanted  to  be  a  good  hostess  and  hated  shortcomings  with  all  her  heart.  To  be  sure,  Anna  Gavrinina  never  66  accepted  gifts  herself,  not  even  from  Germans.  What  reason  could  foreign-  ers  have  for  giving  her  presents?  It  was  not  Women's  Day  or  Victory  Day,  or  even  her  birthday.  After  all,  Russians  never  gave  her  anything.  And  the  fact  that  her  colleagues  accepted  such  items,  indeedspoke  of  nothing  else,  and  even  got  into  arguments  over  them-she  noted  all  that  in  silence.  She  did  not  want  to  hear  any  more  about  it.  The  gentlemen  could  lavish  their  pralines,  coffee,  or  sausages  wrapped  in  transpar-  ent  foil  on  the  vulgar.  ...  One  day,  however-this  was  after  she  had  become  quite  accustomed  to  for-  eigners-she  was  starting  her  shift  and  found  a  package  wrapped  in  beautiful  pink  paper  on  her  chair.  &quot;For  you,&quot;  Polina,  three  years  her  ju-  nior,  said,  as  if  she  were  doling  out  their  food  coupons.  Anna  Gavrinina  was  im-  mediately  wary.  Polina  shrugged.  Hav-  ing  offered  that  information,  she  left  Ga-  vrinina  alone.  It  was  Sunday.  Anna  Gavrinina  had  already  eaten  the  second  of  the  sandwiches  she  had  brought  when  to  her  own  amazement  she  impetuously  pulled  at  the  pink  rib-  bon  asif  at  a  shoelace.  She  was  star-  tled  by  her  own  recklessness  and  gasped  a  little,  the  way  she  did  at  night  some-  times  when  she  couldn't  sleep.  Then  she  laid  her  book  aside  and  unwrapped  the  package.  It  was  exactly  two  in  the  afternoon.  Inside  a  clear  boxand  bedded  in  soft  pink  cotton  lay  a  tiny  dark  bottle  no  big-  ger  than  her  two  thumbnails  placed  side  by  side.  Only  a  shuffling  sound  in  the  stairwell  frightened  herout  of  her  reverie.  No  one,  no  editor  and  no  photographer,  and  definitely  not  Lilya  Petrovna  from  the  teletype,  was  to  know  anything  about  this.  She  hid  the  little  bottle  on  the  shelf  under  the  counter  and  decided  to  go  ahead  and  polish  her  nails,  as  shedid  ev-  ery  Sunday.  To  dry  them,  she  laid  her  palms  on  the  desk,  not  far  from  the  ob-  ject  that  she  had  to  think  about.  It  was  well  past  four  when  Anna  Ga-  vrinina  dabbed  the  perfume  on  her  neck,  behind  her  earlobes,  and  on  her  wrists.  Lost  in  the  fragrance,  her  eyelids  almost  closed,  she  recalled  a  song  she  hadn't  heard  in  a  long  while.  As  she  sat  there,  onlyher  shoulders  moved.  &quot;Ah,  Ne-  totchka,&quot;  she  hummed,  &quot;sometimes  life  is  beautiful!&quot;  By  way  of  distraction,  Anna  Gavri-  nina  turned  on  the  television.  The  fra-  grance,  in  its  fresh  and  gentle  way,  domi-  nated  the  entrance  to  the  TASS  Building.  But  how  long  would  the  contents  of  this  little  bottle-which  must  surely  be  worth  a  fortune-last,  even  if  it  was  used  with  her  customary  frugality?  She  shuddered  with  unfamiliar  happiness  at  the  idea  of  diluting  just  one  drop  of  the  perfume  in  water  and  thereby  prolonging  thisfra-  grance  until  the  end  of  her  life.  She  had  made  her  decision  and  now  dozed  off,  exhausted  from  the  excitement  of  the  last  few  hours.  A  racket-a  clanking  and  rattling  at  the  entrance  door-startled  her  awake.  Dobrovolsky  the  photographer  was  fum-  bling  with  his  key  at  the  double  doors  and  tryingto  make  off  with  the  perfume  in  its  little  clear  box,  along  with  the  pink  paper  and  ribbon.  He  didn't  even  try  to  deny  it.  &quot;What  doyou  need  the  stuff  for?&quot;  he  gasped.  &quot;I  thought  you  didn't  accept  gifts.&quot;   Anna  Gavrinina,  who  now  recalled  every  detail  of  her  happiness,  set  up  a  wail  that  resounded  throughout  theold  building.  She  threw  herself  at  Dobrovolsky,  who  protected  his  face  from  her  blows  by  tucking  it  under  his  arms.  Plunging  a  hand  into  the  left  pocket  of  the  thief's  jacket,  Anna  Gavrinina  felt  a  cigarette  lighter-and  a  little  bottle.  She  would  never  let  go  of  it  again!  She  clutched  both  the  perfume  and  the  lighter  so  hard  that  Dobrovolsky,  who  was  holding  her  by  the  wrist  with  his  left  hand,  was  un-  able  to  wrench  her  fist  open  with  his  right.  He  crushed  his  broad  thumb  against  each  of  Gavrinina's  knuckles;  she  groaned  in  pain,  but  she  didn't  yield.  And  then  she  toreinto  his  arm  with  her  teeth.  For  that,  he  gave  her  a  blow  to  the  temple  and  yanked  her  around,  trying  to  bang  her  closed  fist  against  the  wooden  door  and  .  ..  At  last,  there  on  the  far  side  of  the  glass  door,  they  saw  the  new  director.  He  had  come  to  show  a  colleague  from  [REDACTED],  with  whom  he  had  studied  at  one  time,  the  new  furnishings  in  his  re-  decorated  office.  Gavrinina  opened  the  door  with  her  left  hand  and  a  kick,  sobbing  and  waving  at  the  director,  who  demanded  that  they  put  an  end  to  this  circus.  Dobrovolsky  and  Anna  Gavrinina  loudly  agreed-without  abandoning  their  positions.  Dobrovolsky  went  on  crushing  her  fingers,  while  her  dark-red  nails  clawed  into  the  balls  of  his  hands.  The  director,  affrontedin  the  pres-  ence  of  his  [REDACTED]  friend,  grabbed  hold  of  them  with  both  his  hands  and  was  in-  stantly  and  painfully  caught  up  in  the  struggle,  a  raging  rat's  nest  in  the  en-  trance  of  the  TASS  Building.  Without  anyone  letting  go  and  amid  the  steady  roil  of  curses,  the  following  explanation  was  offered:  Dobrovolsky  the  photogra-  pher  had  bought  this  perfume  for  his  wife  at  Lancome's  on  Nevsky  Prospekt,  which  he  was  ready  to  prove  at  any  time,  and  that  lighter  there,  only  the  tip  of  which  was  visible-everyone  here  knew  it  was  his.  He  had  wanted  to  show  the  perfume  to  Gavrinina,  but  she  had  gone  completely  crazy  and  in  a  fit  of  senility  had  claimed  the  giftas  her  own,  al-  though  she  had  no  use  whatever  for  it.  Anna  Gavrinina  wailed  and  stammered  that  the  perfume  belonged  to  her.  The  director  had  only  to  smell  her  neck  or  be-  THREE  MOMENTS  OF  RUSSIAN  HAPPINESS  hind  her  earlobes,  or  here,  here  on  her  arm,  and  the  truth  would  come  to  light.  The  new  director  just  barked  at  her  and  demanded  to  know  if  she  realized  whom  she  was  dealing  with.  Then  he  joined  Dobrovolsky  in  trying  to  pry  her  fingers  from  the  bottle.  Gavrinina  was  no  match  for  this  attack.  She  gave  up,  and  from  her  opened  hand  both  the  lighter  and  the  little  bottle  fell  to  the  floor.  The  glass  burst.  Gavrinina  fainted.  The  ball  of  her  right  hand  was  bleed-  ing  so  badly  that  it  had  to  be  bandaged  as  she  lay  unconscious  on  the  tiled  floor.  Then  they  sent  her  home.  She  did  not  appear  for  work  again.  She  vanished  into  thin  air.  Only  the  fragrance  in  the  entrance  still  reminded  the  photographer  and  the  director  of  Anna  Gavrinina.  But  by  autumn  it,  too,  smelled  like  the  rest  of  the  building,  and  they  were  both  rid  of  an  unpleasant  memory.     BORDER  CONTROLS  UCKED  at  heart  level,  the  passports  lent  my  jacket  the  quality  of  a  bul-  letproof  vest.  That  did  not,  however,  im-  ply  invulnerability.  Our  car  followed  the  paved  road,  the  broad  swath  that  had  been  cut  through  the  forest.  The  little  light  next  to  the  tachometer  started  flickering  every  fifteen  minutes,  and  within  half  an  hour  it  glowed  before  our  eyes  as  red  as  a  brake  light.  We  poured  oil  and  water  into  various  openings  un-  der  the  hood,  keeping  the  danger  in  check  for  another  fifteen  minutes  or  so  until  the  red  light  started  flickering  again.  But  then  the  paved  road  came  to  an  end.  A  few  hundred  yards  ahead  a  body  lay  sprawled  across  the  road.  We  approached  it  slowly.  When  we  had  passed  it,  one  of  us  got  out  and  made  sure:  it  wasn't  a  corpse,  only  a  woman  who  had  been  drinking.  To  our  left,  the  sea  glistened  through  the  trees,  and  then  the  road  picked  up  again.  Every  car  we  passed  or  that  came  toward  us  from  the  opposite  direction  was  an  ally.  We  were  particularly  fond  of  Finnish  trucks.  Every  car  that  came  upon  us  from  the  rear,  with  passen-  gers  gawking  as  they  passed,  made  us  uneasy.  We  counted  every  mile  we  had  driven  since  the  last  village,  and  kept  track  of  the  distance  left  till  the  next  one  marked  on  our  map.  We  hardly  noticed  that  it  had  begun  to  rain.  After  driving  for  three  hours,  we  reached  the  lovely  town  of  Vyborg.  The  moment  we  got  out  of  the  car  we  were  encircled  by  men  of  various  ages.  They  crowded  in  on  us,  getting  closer  and  closer,  making  various  offers,  sell-  ing  this  and  that.  Sometimes  they  spoke  in  Russian,  sometimes  in  Finnish.  They  were  almost  whimpering.  But  as  we  re-  treated  their  tone  became  abruptly  de-  manding,  abusive,  even  menacing.  Then  they  chased  the  children  who  were  with  them  away,  and  we  got  back  into  our  car,  locked  the  doors,  and  drove  of-  slowly  at  first  so  as  to  let  them  jump  out  of  the  way,  then  faster.  Someone  kicked  the  fender,  and  when  stones  began  flying  we  accelerated  to  full  speed.  People  were  yelling  and  cursing.  On  the  other  side  of  Vyborg,  we  came  to  a  high,  narrow  sus-  pension  bridge  patrolled  by  a  soldier.  As  we  crossed  it,  we  had  a  magnificent  view  of  the  coun-  tryside:  the  town  with  its  towers  behind  us,  lakes  and  the  river's  many  arms  stretching  out  into  the  distance,  and  the  endless  forest  up  ahead.  We  were  still  enjoying  the  view  when  a  band  of  booted  young  fellows  who  were  camped  beside  the  road  brought  us  to  a  stop-just  pass-  ing  the  time,  it  seemed.  Legitimatized  by  nothing  more  than  a  barrier,  they  de-  manded  our  passports.  Their  captain,  or  whatever  he  was,  bent  down  to  the  driver's  window,  which  was  only  partially  open,  and,  asif  snatch-  ing  at  gnats,  motioned  for  him  to  turn  off  the  motor.  He  ordered  him  to  roll  the  window  all  the  way  down.  He  was  flick  inga  match  between  the  corners  of  his  mouth  in  a  steady  rhythm.  For  some  rea-  son,  this  offered  us  the  hope  that  his  in-  tervention  would  end  happily,  but  we  said  nothing.  The  other  guys  sauntered  up  and  down  the  shoulder  of  the  road  but  never  took  their  eyes  off  us.  Two  of  them  leaned  against  the  barrier  and  grinned.  What  would  we  have  to  do  in  order  to  pass?  Nothing  would  surprise  us.  The  captain  spit  out  the  match  and  dropped  the  passports  in  the  front-seat  passen-  ger's  lap.  As  we  pulled  away,  we  could  not  help  extending  a  word  of  greeting,  out  of  re-  lief  and  gratitude.  During  the  next  stretch,  the  forest  drew  close  to  the  road.  Despite  an  urgent  need  67  to  relieve  ourselves,  we  drove  briskly  on.  The  second  barrier  was  visible  from  a  good  distance.  To  our  left  was  a  wide  moor,  with  dead  trees  sticking  up  out  of  it  like  poles.  No  life  left  here.  To  our  right,  the  forest  floor  looked  as  if  it  had  been  swept  clean.  The  car  rolled  to  a  stop.  With  indifferent  faces,  the  guards  ap-  proached  us,  surrounded  our  car,  and  without  further  ado  pushed  the  barrier  aside.  Out  of  the  corners  of  our  eyes,  we  could  see  the  finely  raked  stripe  of  sand  that  formed  a  fire  lane  through  the  forest.  We  drove  on,  taking  care  not  to  exceed  the  speed  limit,  and  reached  barrier  three.  This  one  opened  all  on  its  own,  without  our  even  having  to  stop.  Then  we  sat  in  a  line  of  waiting  cars,  includ-  ing  some  with  jovial  tourists.  We  quickly  took  care  of  for-  malities,  walked  through  cus-  toms  on  foot,  and  then  wound  our  way  back  to  the  car.  There  had  been  no  challenges.  Be-  fore  continuing  our  journey,  we  availed  ourselves  of  a  little  outhouse.  We  jauntily  passed  the  raised  barrier  and  relaxed  as  the  asphalt  smoothed  out  to  form  a  road  with  center  and  shoulder  lines.  On  each  side  were  guardrails  and  parking  places,  the  cars  were  clean  and  free  of  rust,  the  meadows  lush,  the  houses  well  cared  for.  We  had  made  it!  Not  twenty  minutes  later,  we  were  sit-  ting  on  the  terrace  of  a  pretty  restaurant.  We  ordered  steaks,  duchess  potatoes,  and  mushrooms,  a  Greek  shepherd's  salad  as  an  appetizer,  accompanied  by  a  splendid  Chianti  Classico,  and  finished  off  with  coffee  and  sautéed  bananas  over  vanilla  ice  cream.  Only  now  did  we  real-  ize  how  tense  the  journey  had  made  us.  While  we  smoked,  a  feeling  of  satis-  faction  set  in,  and  we  talked  about  what  a  success  our  journey  had  turned  out  to  be  after  all.  To  be  sure,  we  had  to  admit  that  not  everything  had  gone  smoothly.  For  ex-  ample,  they  had  pulled  Boris  from  the  car.  And  the  man  across  from  me  now  found  the  energy  to  say  that  through  the  rear  window  he  had  seen  Boris  stumbling  under  the  blows  of  their  clubs  when  he  was  forced  from  the  car  at  one  of  the  bar-  riers.  We  all  agreed  that  this  did  not  bode  well  for  Boris,  since  for  a  good  while  now  he  had  been  suffering  from  heart  trouble. 