A DERRIBLE  thing  habbened  do  me  on  my  haliday.  A  derri-  ble  thing,  and  a  bermanend  thing.  Id  won'd  be  the  zame,  ever  again.  Bud  the  virzd  thing  to  zay  is:  don'd  banig!  I'm  nad  zuvvering  vram  brain  damage-or  vram  adenoids.  And  I  gan  wride  bedder  than  thiz  when  I  wand  do.  Bud  I  gon'd  wand  do.  Nad  vor  now.  Led  me  egsblain.  I  am  halve  English  and  halve  Amerigan.  My  mum  is  Amerigan  and  my  dad  is  English.  I  go  do  zgool  in  [REDACTED]  and  my  bronunziation  is  English-grizb,  glear,  even  vaindly  Agzonian,  the  zame  as  my  dad's.  Amerigans  avden  zeem  zurbrised  do  hear  an  eleven-year-old  who  zbeegs  as  I  zbeeg.  Grandaddy  Jag,  who  is  Amerigan,  admids  thad  he  vinds  id  unganny.  As  iv  suj  an  agzend  re-  quires  grade  ganzendration  even  vram  grownubs,  led  alone  jildren.  Amerigans  zeem  to  zuzbegd  thad  the  English  relags  and  zbeeg  Amer-  igan  behind  glozed  doors.  Shouding  oud,  on  their  redurn,  &quot;Honey,  I'm  home!&quot;  My  other  grandvather  veld  divverendly:  English,  do  him,  was  the  more  najural  voize.  Zo  thiz  zdory  is  vor  them,  doo,  as  well  as  vor  Eliaz.  I  dell  id  thiz  way-in  zargazdig  Ameriganese-  begaz  I  don'd  wand  id  do  be  glear:  do  be  all  grizb  and  glear.  There  is  thiz  zdrange  resi-  zdanze.  There  is  thiz  zdrange  resizdanze.  ME  and  my  younger  brother  Jagob  usually  zbend  the  early  bard  of  the  zummer  in  Gabe  Gad,  with  my  mum,  and  the  lader  bard  in  Eazd  Hambdon,  with  my  dad.  Bud  thiz  year  we  wend  do  my  dad's  a  liddle  zooner  than  blanned.  When  the  day  game  we  gad  ub  ad  the  grag  of  dawn  and  biled  indo  the  gar  with  our  Ungle  Desmond.  Id  was  a  vive-hour  drive  do  New  Yorg,  bud  the  dravvig  wasn't  heavy  and  Desmond  doled  uz  many  inderezding  things-aboud  dreams,  aboud  aldered     BY  MARTIN  AMIS  (For  Entas  FAWCETT,  1978-96)     Elias  Fawcett  in  [REDACTED],  May  3,  1996.  zdades.  We  zeemed  to  be  there  in  no  dime.  My  dad  was  wading  on  Ninedy-  zigzth  Zdreed.  We  grabbed  zum  lunj  and  then  went  oud  to  Lang  Island  ina  big  goach  galled  the  Jidney.  In  the  Jidney,  you  veld  you  were  in  a  blane,  nad  a  buz:  vree  orange  juize  or  Berrier,  vree  beanudz,  individual  zbadlighds  to  read  by,  and  a  lavadory  in  the  bag.  We  zoon  zeddled  indo  my  dad's  rended  houze  in  the  woods.  Nothing  fanzy:in  vagd,  id  good  have  been  Og-  lahoma,  with  a  big-ub  drug  in  the  drive-  way,  an  old  gar  zeed  on  the  bor},  and  the  neighbors  always  guarrelling  and  grying  out-  &quot;Ged  ub,  Margared!&quot;  on  one  zide,  and  &quot;Why,  Garen,  why?&quot;  on  the  other.  Bud  id  did  have  the  usual  burzding  revrigerador  and  muldible  bathrooms,  bluz  gable  DV.  Zo:  zum  zdoo  and  bazda,     ‘  zim  &quot;Beaviz  and  Buddhead,&quot;  then  '  ub  the  wooden  hills  to  Bedvord-  shire.  .  ..  My  dad,  doo,  was  very  ubzed  aboud  Eliaz.  And  Isabel  was  alzo  there,  and  alzo  ubzed-and  alzo  big  with  jiled.  SI  zed,  we  wend  do  my  dad's  a  liddle  earlier  than  blanned  this  year,  journeying  down  vram  the  Gabe  do  Lang  Island.  Nearly  every  zummer,  on  Gabe  Gad,  Mr.  Marlowe  Vawzedd  gums  to  bay  uz  a  visid.  Bragdigally  a  grownub  now,  Marlowe  uzed  to  have  a  jab  as  a  gounzellor  ad  a  boys'  gamb,  and  zo  he  is  an  egsberd  ad  guezzing  whad  boys  wand  do  do.  He  is  underzdandably  babular  with  Jagob  and  me.  Bud,  well,  Marlowe  had  do  go  home  early  thiz  year.  And  my  mum  had  dogo  home  early  thiz  year.  Begaz  of  whad  habbened,  bag  in  [REDACTED].  ,  Id  was  a  dull  day  when  Marlowe  _  heard  the  news  aboud  his  younger  brother.  The  news  aboud  Eliaz.  Jagob  and  I  wend  with  him  ub  the  dird  road-do  where  we  barg  the  gar.  Over  Horzeleej  Band  there  zwam  a  gloud  of  gray:  nad  mizd,  nad  vag,  bud  the  gray  haze  of  ziddies,  and  of  zdreeds.  Ub  vram  the  band  id  vloaded,  lingering,  drabbed  in  the  drees,  and  nothing  was  glear.  Dream-  ily  Marlowe  gad  indo  the  gar  and  glozed  the  door.  He  wend  do  Bravinzedown  Air-  bord.  Virzd  the  liddle  blane,  do  Bazdon.  Then  the  bigger  blane,  do  [REDACTED]  Down.  And  my  mum  zoon  vallowed.  Zo,  as  I  zed,  we  wend  do  my  dad's  a  liddle  earlier  than  blanned.  Y  younger  brother  Jagob  is  do-  dally  obzezzed  by  durdles,  dor-  §  doizes,  vrags,  doads,  labzders,  grabs,  and  8  all  zords  of  zlimy  and  weird-shabed  reb-  g-  diles,  amvibians,  and  gruzdaceans.  He  Z  knows  all  their  Ladin  names,  all  their  3  baddernings,  all  their  habidads.  He's  an  egsberd  on  these  greejures.  And  zo  am  I,  whether  or  nad  I  wand  do  be.  Begaz  Jagob's  giving  me  an  earvul  more  or  les  round  the  glag.  Zo  on  many  days,  in  Eazd  Hamb-  don,  we  wend  on  grabbing  egsbeditions.  The  bay  zeemed  do  voam  with  grabs  and  with  zbrads  (minnows,  diddlers).  I  used  a  drawl  ned,  vor  the  zbrads,  and  on  my  virzd  zweeb  I  gad  loads.  With  the  grabs,  you  aggumulade  them  ina  big  bad.  And  ad  the  end  of  the  day  you  have  a  grab  raze.  You  draw  a  zirgle  in  the  zand:  the  virzd  grab  to  glear  id  is  then  broglaimed  the  winner.  No  grabs  die:  you  jug  them  all  bag  indo  the  zee.  Ad  our  vavoride  bay,  whij  we  galled  Dead  Man's  Landing,  there  was  alzo  a  van  thad  showed  ub  every  hour  or  zo  and  zold  lallibabs  and  ize  gream.  On  these  grabbing  dribs  we  would  avden  bringalong  my  liddle  &quot;guzzen&quot;  Bablo.  Bablo  is  only  vour  years  old  and  you  have  do  be  very  garevul  with  him  when  he  goes  in  the  zee.  Begaz  he  gan  only  zwim  with  whad  he  galls  his  &quot;ar-  mies&quot;  or  his  &quot;vloadies.&quot;  Bablo  has  a  liddle  zizder  named  IJ,  who  is  alzo  very  gude.  One  day  Jagob  gabjured  a  giand  grab  and  game  running  ub  the  beej  do  drab  idin  the  bad-the  blazdig  bad  or  medal  gandainer  in  whij  all  the  grabs  were  zdored.  I  was  zidding  on  a  dowel,  reading  my  boog:  &quot;Brando,&quot;  by  Elmore  Leonard.  Jagob  ran  bag  down  the  zand.  And  then  Bablo  game  ub  do  ar  me  and  zed,  &quot;I've  vound  a  grab,  doo.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  I  zed.  &quot;Bud  thad  one's  dead,  Bab.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  drab  id  in  the  bad  with  the  others?&quot;  I  zed,  &quot;Thad  zdiv?  Why  would  we  wand  thad  in  the  bad?  No,  Bablo.&quot;  And  he  zed,  &quot;Why  nad?  Is  id  doo  big?&quot;  &quot;Id  isn't  doo  big,  zdubid.  Id's  [REDACTED];  And  id  was  dead-big  dime.  Halve  ids  baddy  had  radded  of.  A  zingle  binzer  dangled  from  a  length  of  vrayed  dendon.  Id  didn'd  even  zmell:  thad's  how  dead  thad  grab  was.  &quot;Gan  I  drab  idin  the  bad  with  the  others?&quot;  &quot;Devinidely  nad.  Zdab  thiz,  Bablo.  No.&quot;  Juzd  then  Jagob  gried  oudvram  the  shore.  A  new  dizgovery.  We  wend  do  jeg  id  oud.  Beyand  the  beer,  the  shallows  were  liddered  with  dozens  of  dead  zbrads-brabably  vish-  ermen's  baid.  Bablo  baddled  in  do  in-  zbegd  them.  And  game  bag  with  a  dead  zbrad.  Zo  we  had  our  vinal  zwims-Bablo  blaying  with  his  invladable  sharg,  and  wearing  his  invladable  &quot;armies.&quot;  And  when  the  dime  game  vor  uzdo  hid  the  road,  Bablo  revuzed  do  leave  the  zbrad  behind.  He  zed  he  wanded  to  bring  id  home  and  inzdall  id  in  a  bags  in  his  room.  The  zbrad  would  be  his  bed-  inzded  of  a  dag  or  a  gad!  In  thegar  I  zed,  &quot;Well,  Bab,thad  zbrad'll  be  anize  air-vreshener  vor  your  room.&quot;  And  he  zed,  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;Why?  Begaz  briddy  zoon  id'll  begin  to  reeg  of  dead  vish.&quot;  &quot;I  don'd  mind.&quot;  &quot;Why  nad?&quot;  &quot;Begaz  I'll  rub  zum  gream  on  id.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yeah?  Whad  zord  of  gream,  Bablo?&quot;  &quot;.  ..  Vish  gream.&quot;  We  all  had  a  good  jordle  ad  thad.  And  I  zed,  &quot;Whad  aboud  rads,  Bab?  Whad  iv  a  rad  shows  ub  in  the  nide?&quot;  &quot;I  don'd  mind.&quot;  &quot;Why  nad?&quot;  &quot;I  won'd  zmell  the  rad.&quot;  &quot;Why  nad?&quot;  &quot;Begaz  of  the  vish  gream.&quot;  More  jordling.  &quot;Why  don'd  you  bab  bag  to  Dead  Man's  Landing,  Bablo-for  the  dead  grab.  Id'll  be  a  bal  vor  your  vish.&quot;  Bud  my  dad  zed  thad  Bablo  already  had  his  blade  vull-virzd  with  the  vish,  then  with  the  rad.  When  we  gaddo  his  blaze,  Bablo  in-  droduzed  his  mum  do  the  new  bed:  &quot;Thiz  is  my  vish.  Ids  zilver.  Id's  zmall.  Id's  dead.  Id  gums  vram  the  zee.  Id  lives  in  thiz  bags.&quot;  As  iv  the  vish  being  dead  was  juzd  another  thing  aboud  id-juzd  another  of  ids  addribudes.  Bablo's  mum  zeemed  var  vram  enthusiazdig.  Bud  when  we  voned  the  vallowing  morning,  vor  an  ubdade,  Bablo  zed  his  vish  was  abzoludely  vine.  HEN  Bablo  was  only  three  his  mum  made  him  a  lion  oudvid,  vor  Halloween.  He  dried  id  on,  gave  a  vull-throaded  roar,  and  growled,  &quot;I'm  a  lion  gazdume!&quot;  My  dad  galls  these  vunny  zlibs  of  Bablo's  &quot;gadegory  errors.&quot;  One  dime  thiz  zimmer  Bab  and  I  were  dizguzzing  gars  65  and  driving,  and  I  zed,  &quot;Your  dad,  is  he  a  good  driver,  then?&quot;  Bablo  nadded  with  his  eyes  glozed.  &quot;Babba?&quot;  he  reblied,  in  a  voice  both  gan-  vident  and  ganvidenjal.  &quot;Babba  gan  drive  all  the  way  to  the  ziddy.&quot;  And  he  gave  another  nad,  for  emva-  ziz,  astv  do  zay,  &quot;Bood  thad  in  your  bibe  and  zmogue  id.&quot;  Zo  I  juzd  zed,  &quot;Is  thad  zo?  My  dad  gan  only  mague  idas  var  as  Wainzgadd.  Then  he  bulls  over  and  they  have  to  helb  him  oud  of  the  gar.&quot;  Bablo  zeemed  ready  do  gredid  id.  &quot;And  how's  the  vish,  Bab?&quot;  &quot;Vine.&quot;  &quot;Zdill  going  zdrang&quot;&quot;  &quot;Yez,&quot;  he  zed.  &quot;My  vish  is  vine.&quot;  LEARLY,  Bablo  does  nad  yedun-  derzdand  whad  death  is.  Bud  who  does?  Death  wasmuj  on  my  mind  in  the  zimmer-muj  on  my  mind.  Begaz  of  Eliaz.  Eliaz  died,  in  [REDACTED]  Down.  And  zo  death  has  been  muj  on  my  mind.  My  dad  zed  thad  early  in  the  zum-  mer  Eliaz  game  round  do  his  vlad.  He  game  rounddo  big  ub  a  jagged-bud  the  jagged  was  in  my  dad's  gar,  and  the  gar  was  elzewhere,  having  ids  baddery  vigsed,  edzedera,  edzedera.  Dybigal  Eliaz-jazing  a  jagged  agrazz  down.  Zo  he  hung  around  vor  the  whole  avder-  noon,  blaying  the  binball  machine  and,  of  gorze,  the  elegdrig  guidar.  And  my  dad  zed  thad  his  memory  of  him  was  re-  ally  vresh:  his  memory  of  Eliaz,  or  Va-  bian,  whij  was  his  nigname,  remained  really  vresh.  Isabel  alzo  ran  indo  him  during  the  early  zummer,  in  a  doob  drain,  on  the  Zendral  Line,  under  Lon-  don  and  ids  zdreeds.  Dybigal  Eliaz,  with  all  his  bags  and  bundles,  his  jaggeds  and  hads,  gayadig,  vezdive,  brezzed  vor  dime-and  zdill  darrying  vor  a  halve-  hour  jad.  Zo  the  memory  is  vresh.  And  my  memory  is  vresh.  Bud  is  id  zo  vresh  zimbly  begaz  Eliaz  was  zo  youn  vresh  himzelve?  My  dad  doled  me  thad  he  zenses  the  ghozd  of  Eliaz  in  his  room,  ad  dawn,  wading  ad  the  end  of  the  bed.  I  zee  him  at  nide.  A  young  rag-  zdar  with  vlyaway  hair  and  gleeg  lighds  all  around.  I  alzo  remember  the  day  we  heard  the  news,  on  Gabe  Gad.  How  Jagob  and  I  wend  with  Marlowe  ub  the  dird  road  do  the  gar.  And  the  gloud  over  the    band,  with  ids  urban  gray-the  gray  of  Daddenham  Gord  Road,  of  Jar-  ng  Graz  Road,  the  gray  of  Goodge  Zdreed.  The  zgy  was  gray  and  nothing  was  glear.  N  the  vinal  weeg  of  the  haliday  we  had  an  inzidend.  An  inzidend  where  death,  again,  vleedingly  showed  ids  vaze.  Id  veadured  Bablo.  And  another  gadegory  error.  We  were  all  zwimming  in  the  bool  thad  belongs  to  Alegs  and  Bam.  Myj  agdividy  there,  begaz  they  alzo  have  a  dramboline:  you  ged  all  had,  jumbing,  then  you  leab  indo  the  bool  and  goo!  down.  Bablo  was  zwimming  with  his  armies-his  vloadies.  Me  and  Jagob  were  mezzing  around,  blaying  duj  or  Margo  Bolo.  My  dad  was  on  a  lounger,  having  a  zigaredde  and  jadding  with  Bam.  And  zuddenly  Bablo  game  oud  of  nowhere  and  zbrang  indo  the  bool-  withoud  his  vloadies.  Bablo  had  vor-  godden  his  armies!  In  the  end  id  was  no  big  deal.  Zdill  in  his  drungs,  my  dad  juzd  drabbed  his  budd  and  did  a  zord  of  zbazdig  razing  dive  indo  the  middle  of  the  bool.  He  gad  do  Bablo  and  held  him  ub.  And  Bablo  was  nad  dizdrezzed-he  didn'd  have  dime  do  banig.  My  dad  even  en-  gouraged  Bablo  do  zwim  bag  do  the  shallow  end.  And  he  did,  with  liddle  azzizdanze.  And  my  dad  galmly  vin-  ished  his  vag.  &quot;Well,  thad  was  vun!&quot;  zed  Bab,  emerging  vrom  the  bool.  He  zdug  oud  his  jezd  and  announzed,  &quot;I  wend  zwim-  ming  withoud  vloadies.  I  wend  zwim-  ming  withoud  armies!&quot;  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  21,  1997  &quot;No,  in  vagd,&quot;  zed  my  dad,  &quot;you  wend  zwimming.&quot;  Another  of  Bab's  zlibs.  Begaz  you  don'd  ender  the  Olymbigs  in  an  evend  galled  the  200-Meder  Vreezdyle  With-  oud  Armies.  You  don'd  go  vor  a  mid-  nide  zwim  without  vloadies.  Id's  galled  a  zwimming  bool,  avder  all.  Nad  a  zwimming-withoud-armies  bool.  Thad  day  zeemed  do  be  an  abbro-  briade  dimedo  bid  varewell  to  Bablo's  zbrad.  When  we  drabbed  him  of  with  his  mum  we  made  dizgreed  inguiries  aboud  the  vamouz  vish,  and  she  rolled  her  eyes  and  zed,  &quot;Oh,  thad  vish!  Will  I  ever  hear  the  lazd  of  thad  vish!&quot;  Abbarendly  the  vish  aed  begun  do  rad  and  give  of  a  derrible  zdenj.  Bud  Bab  revused  do  led  his  mum  jug  id  oud:  he  glaimed  his  vish  was  vine.  They'd  dried  every  zord  of  gream  on  id-vish  greams,  rad  greams  (though  really  these  were  bervumes  and  dizinvegdands).  She'd  doled  him  again  and  again  thad  thiz  vish  was  hizdory:  thad  thiz  vish  was,  in  vagd,  an  egs-vish.  Bud  Bab  maindained  thad  the  vish  was  zdill  his  bed.  When  the  bang  begame  gwide  indalerable,  Bablo's  mum  juzd  zmuggled  id  oud  and  zed  thad  a  raggoon  or  a  zdoad  muzd  have  borne  id  of.  Zurbrisingly,  Bablo  did  nad  bro-  dezd  or  gauze  avuzz.  Thiz  zeemed  do  zadizfy  his  idea  of  the  najural  order  of  things.  And  maybe  zumbaddy  zed,  Do  nad  grieve.  Bablo,  do  nad  vred.  Your  zbrad  is  habby,  with  ids  zbrad  Gad  in  ids  zbrad  Heaven.  Your  vish  will  be  reborn,  as  a  sharg,  a  dalvin,  an  agdobuz-or  as  zum  grade  manzder  of  the  deeb.  One  way  or  the  other,  your  vish  is  vine.  UGUZD  begame  Zebdember:  dime  dogo  home.  Lang  Island  had  been  a  lad  of  vun,  bud  I  was  bleased  do  be  bagging  my  bags.  Doo  many  vields,  doo  many  drees,  doo  muj  zand,  doo  muyjzee.  I  was  ready  do  redurn  do  a  ziddy-dezbide  whad  ziddies  are  and  dezbide  whad  ziddies  do.  No  more  rended  houze.  No  more  &quot;Ged  ub,  Margared!&quot;  No  more  &quot;Why,  Garen,  why?&quot;  Id  was  on  the  way  do  the  airbord  thad  the  zubjegd  of  Eliaz  was  raised:  the  zub-  jegd  of  death.  My  dad  zed,  &quot;Do  you  veel  divverendly  aboud  id-aboud  death?&quot;  WHAT  HAPPENED  TO  ME  ON  MY  HOLIDAY  I  zed,  &quot;I  underzdand  thad  beeble  die  now.&quot;  And  Jagob  bibed  ub,  &quot;I  underzdood  thad  years  ago.&quot;  &quot;No.  You  idiod!&quot;  I  zed.  &quot;I  under-  zdood  id.  Bud  1  never  really  grazbd  id  undil  now.&quot;  And  Jagob  nadded.  And  he,  doo,  underzdood.  Bevore,  I  knew  thad  grabs  died  and  thad  vish  died.  I  knew  thad  the  old,  with  all  their  agues  and  bains,  mighd  have  reason  do  be  gradevul  vor  the  brazbegd  of  an  ending.  And,  of  gorze,  all  over  the  world,  in  vazd  numbers,  beeble  grash  and  zdarve  and  bleed  and  burn,  ged  glubbed,  grushed,  zdabbed,  shad,  valling,  valling  away,  in  vazd  numbers,  all  over  the  world.  Bud  death  had  never  been  zo  near,  where  it  has  no  businezz.  Bablo,  Jagob,  Eliaz.  We  are  the  young.  Are  we  nad?  Bud  then  you're  wading  on  the  dird  road,  with  Marlowe,  by  the  gar.  With  Marlowe  in  a  daze,  in  a  dream,  in  a  nidemare.  Graynezz  is  zeebing  ubwards  vram  the  band.  And  nothing  is  glear.  And  then  zuddenly  the  gray  brighdens,  giving  you  a  deeb  thrab  in  your  zgull.  Eliaz  wendzwimming  withoud  his  armies!  Alaz!  Eliaz  wend  doo  deeb  withoud  his  vloadies!  And  you  muzd  do  thiz,  whether  or  nadyou  zurvive.  One  day  you  muzd!  How  many  grownubs  do  you  zee,  when  you  go  do  the  beej,  zwimming  with  vloadies?  How  many  adulds  are  oud  there,  in  the  baddering  waves,  zwimming  with  armies?  And  iv  they  dogo  under,  then  they  don'd  redurn.  Nothing  has  the  bower  do  bring  them  bag-no  zlide  of  hand,  no  drig  vadagravy,  no  medizine,  no  miragle.  They  zday  where  they  are  vorever,  alone  in  the  gold  earth.  I  veel  id  in  my  hard  now.  I  remem-  ber  Marlowe's  eyes,  and  dears  begin  do  gather  in  my  own.  Begaz  one  vine  day  you  gan  oben  your  eyes  and  zee  no  brother  in  the  dwin  bed.  You  go  around  the  houze,  bud  your  brother  is  nowhere  to  be  vound.  The  haliday  has  gum  and  gan.  The  haliday  is  over.  HE  holiday  has  come  and  gone.  The  holiday  is  over.  Goodbye  to  it  all.  And  that  is  what  happened  to  me  on  my  holiday.  