ALTHOUGH  I  had  not  heard  from  my  friend  in  nine  years,  4*A  I  wasn't  surprised,  4  ‘  .  not  really,  to  receive  a  short  letter  from  him  dashed  off  in  pencil,  announcing  that  he  had  &quot;taken  a  wife,&quot;  and  sum-  moning  me  to  visit  him  in  some  remote  upstate  town  I  had  never  heard  of.  &quot;Come  see  me  on  the  16th  and  17th&quot;  was  what  he  had  actually  written.  &quot;Be  here  for  lunch.&quot;  The  off-hand  peremp-  tory  tone  was  Albert  all  over.  He  had  scribbled  a  map,  with  a  little  black  circle  marked  &quot;Village&quot;  and  a  little  white  square  marked  &quot;My  house.&quot;  A  wavy  line  connected  the  two.  Under  the  line  were  the  words  &quot;3%  miles,  more  or  less.&quot;  Over  the  line  were  the  words  &quot;County  Road  39.&quot;  I  knew  those  desolate  little  upstate  villages,  consisting  of  one  Bap-  tist  church,  three  bars,  and  a  gas  station  with  a  single  pump,  and  I  imagined  Albert  living  at  an  ironic  distance,  with  his  books  and  his  manias.  What  I  couldn't  imagine  was  his  wife.  Albert  had  never  struck  me  as  the  marrying  kind,  though  women  had  always  liked  him.  I  had  plans  for  the  weekend,  but  I  cancelled  them  and  headed  north.  I  still  considered  Albert  my  friend,  in  a  way  my  best  friend,  even  though  I  hadn't  heard  from  him  in  nine  years.  He  had  once  been  my  best  friend  and  it  was  hard  to  think  of  him  in  any  other  way.  Even  in  the  flourishing  time  of  our  friendship,  in  the  last  two  years  of  col-  lege  and  the  year  after,  when  we  saw  each  other  daily,  he  had  been  difficult  and  exacting,  scornful  of  convention,  subject  to  sudden  flare-ups  and  silences,  earnest  but  with  an  edge  ofmockery,  and  cursed  with  an  unfailing  scent  for  the  faintly  fraudulent  in  a  gesture  ora  phrase  or  a  face.  He  was  handsome  in  a  sharp-featured  New  England  way-his  family,  as  he  put  it,  had  lived  in  Con-  necticut  since  the  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire-but  despite  the  inviting  smiles  of  girls  in  his  classes  he  confined  him-  self  to  brisk  affairs  with  leather-jacketed  town  girls  with  whom  he  had  noth-  ing  in  common.  After  graduating,  we  roomed  together  for  a  year  in  a  little  col-  lege  town  full  of  cafés  and  bookstores,  sharing  the  rent  and  drifting  from  one  part-time  job  to  another,  as  I  put  off  the  inevitable  suit-and-tie  life  that  awaited  me  while  he  mocked  my  conventional  fear  of  becoming  conventional,  defended  business  as  [REDACTED]'s  only  source  of  originality,  and  read  his  Plato  and  his  &quot;Modern  Chess  Openings&quot;  and  tootled  his  flute.  One  day  he  left,  just  like  that,  to  start  what  he  called  a  new  life.  In  the  nextyear  I  received  postcards  from  small  towns  all  over  [REDACTED],  showing  pic-  tures  of  Main  Streets  and  quaint  village  railroad  stations.  They  bore  messages  such  as  &quot;Still  looking&quot;  or  &quot;Have  you  seen  my  razor?  I  think  I  left  it  on  the  bath-  tub.&quot;  Then  there  was  nothing  for  six  months,  and  then  a  sudden  postcard  from  Eugene,  [REDACTED],  on  which  he  de-  scribed  in  minute  detail  a  small  un-  known  wooden  object  that  he  had  found  in  the  top  drawer  of  the  bureau  in  his  rented  bedroom,  and  then  nine  years  of  silence.  During  that  time  I  settled  into  a  job  and  almost  married  an  old  girl-  friend.  I  had  bought  a  house  on  a  pleas-  ant  street  lined  with  porches  and  maples,  thought  quite  a  bit  about  my  old  friend  Albert,  and  wondered  whether  this  was  what  I  had  looked  forward  to,  this  life  I  was  now  leading,  in  theold  days,  the  days  when  Istill  looked  forward  to  things.  HE  town  was  even  worse  than  I  had  imagined.  Slowly  I  passed  its  crumbling  brick  paper  mill  with  boarded-up  windows,  its  rowsof  faded  and  flaking  two-family  houses  with  sag-  ging  front  porches  where  guys  in  black§  T-shirts  sat  drinking  beer,  its  tattoo  par-  lor,  and  its  sluggish  stream.  County  WSKI  FILIP  PAG  Road  39  wound  between  fields  of  Queen  Anne's  lace  and  yellow  ragweed,  with  now  and  then  a  melancholy  house  or  a  patch  of  sun-scorched  corn.  Once  I  passed  a  rotting  barn  with  a  caved-in  roof.  At  3.2  miles  on  the  odometer  I  came  to  a  weathered  house  near  the  edge  of  the  road.  A  bicycle  lay  in  the  high  grass  of  the  front  yard,  and  an  open  garage  was  entirely  filled  with  old  furni-  ture.  Uncertainly  I  turned  onto  the  un-  paved  drive,  parkedwith  the  motor  run-  ning,  and  walked  up  to  the  frontdoor.  There  was  no  bell.  I  knocked  on  the  wooden  screen  door,  which  banged  loudly  against  the  frame,  and  a  tall,  barefoot,  and  very  pale  woman  with  sleepy  eyes  came  to  the  door,  wearing  a  long  rumpled  black  skirt  and  a  lum-  berjack  shirt  over  a  T-shirt.  When  I  asked  for  Albert  she  looked  at  me  sus-  piciously,  shook  her  head  quickly  back  and  forth,  and  slammed  the  inner  door.  As  I  walked  back  to  the  car  I  saw  her  pale  face  looking  out  at  me  pasta  pushed-  aside  pink  curtain.  It  occurred  to  me  that  perhaps  Albert  had  married  this  woman  and  that  she  was  insane,  and  as  I  backed  out  of  the  drive  I  thought  that  I  really  should  turn  back  now,  right  now,  away  from  this  misguided  adventure  in  the  wilderness.  After  all,  1  hadn't  seen  him  for  nine  long  years.  At  4.1  miles  on  the  odometer  I  rounded  a  bend  of  rising  road  and  saw  a  shadowy  house  set  back  in  a  cluster  of  dusty-looking  trees.  I  turned  into  the  unknown  dirt  drive,  deep-rutted  and  sprouting  weeds,  and  as  I  stepped  on  the  brake  with  a  sharp  sense  of  desolation  and  betrayal,  for  here  I  was,  in  the  god-  forsaken  middle  of  nauseating  nowhere,  prowling  around  like  a  fool  and  a  crimi-  nal,  the  front  door  opened  and  Albert  came  out,  one  hand  in  his  pocket  and  one  hand  waving.  He  looked  the  same,  nearly  the  same,  though  browner  and  leatherier  than  I  re-  membered,  as  if  he  had  lived  all  those  years  in  the  sun,  his  face  a  little  longer  and  leaner-a  handsome  man  in  jeans  and  a  dark  shirt.  &quot;I  wondered  if  you'd  show  up,&quot;  he  said  when  he  reached  the  car,  and  suddenly  seemed  to  study  me.  &quot;You  look  just  the  way  you  ought  to,&quot;  he  then  said.  Ilet  the  words  settle  in  me.  &quot;It  de-  pends  what  I  ought  to  look  like,&quot;  I  an-  swered,  glancing  at  him  sharply,  but  he  only  laughed.  &quot;Isn't  this  a  great  place?&quot;  he  said,  throwing  out  one  arm  as  he  picked  up  my  travelling  bag  to  carry  to  the  house.  &quot;Ten  acres,  and  they  were  practically  giving  it  away.  First  day  after  I  bought  the  place  I  go  walking  around  and-bingo!  What  do  you  think  I  found?  Grapes.  Billions  of  grapes.  An  old  fallen-down  grape  ar-  bor,  grapes  growing  all  over  the  ground.  4974616c79  in  New  York.  Wait  till  you  see  the  pond.&quot;  We  stepped  into  the  shade  of  the  high  trees,  a  little  thicket  of  pines  and  maples  that  grew  close  to  the  house.  Big  bushes  climbed  halfway  up  the  windows.  It  struck  me  that  the  house  was  well  pro-  tected  from  view,  a  private  place,  a  shad-  owy  isle  in  a  sea  of  fields.  &quot;And  yet,&quot;  I  said,  looking  around  for  his  wife,  &quot;I  never  thought  of  you  as  getting  married,  somehow.&quot;  &quot;Not  back  then,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Watch  that  rail.&quot;  We  had  climbed  onto  the  steps  of  the  long,  deep-shaded  front  porch,  and  I  had  grasped  a  wobbly  iron  handrail  that  needed  to  be  screwed  into  the  wood.  A  coil  of  old  garden  hose  hung  over  the  porch  rail.  A  few  hornets  buzzed  about  the  ceiling  light.  On  the  porch  stood  a  sunken  chaise  longue,  an  old  three-  speed  bicycle,  a  metal  garbage  can  con-  taining  a  rusty  snow  shovel,  and  a  porch  swing  on  which  sat  an  empty  flowerpot.  He  opened  the  wooden  screen  door  and  with  a  little  flourish  urged  me  in.  &quot;Humble,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  mine  own.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  with  a  touch  of  excite-  ment,an  excitement  I  couldn't  account  for.  The  house  was  cool  and  almost  dark.  We  entered  the  living  room,  where  I  no-  ticed  a  rocking  chair  that  leaned  too  far  back  and  a  couch  with  one  pillow.  An-  cient  wallpaper  showed  faded  scenes  of  some  kind  repeating  themselves  all  over  the  room.  Albert,  who  seemed  more  and  more  excited,  led  me  up  the  creaking  worn-edged  stairs  to  my  room-a  bed  with  a  frilly  pink  spread,  a  lamp  table  on  which  lay  a  screwdriver  with  a  trans-  parent  yellow  handle-and  quickly  back  down.  &quot;Youmust  be  starving,&quot;  he  said,  as  he  took  me  through  an  open  doorway  into  a  dining  room  that  was  almost  dark.  At  a  big  round  table  there  were  three  place  settings,  which  glowed  whitely  in  the  gloom.  One  of  the  round-backed  chairs  appeared  to  be  occupied.  Only  as  I  drew  closer  did  I  see  that  the  occupant  was  a    large  frog,  perhaps  two  feet  high,  which  sat  with  its  throat  resting  on  the  table  edge.  &quot;My  wife,&quot;  Albert  said,  looking  at  me  fiercely,  as  if  he  were  about  to  spring  at  my  face.  I  felt  I  was  being  tested  in  some  fiendish  way.  &quot;Pleased  to  meet  you,&quot;  I  said  harshly,  and  sat  down  across  from  her.  The  table  lay  between  us  like  a  lake.  I  had  thought  she  might  be  something  else,  maybe  a  stuffed  toy  of  some  sort,  but  even  in  the  dark  daylight  I  could  see  the  large  moist  eyes  looking  here  and  there;  I  could  see  her  rapid  breathing,  and  smell  her  marshy  odor.  I  thought  that  Albert  must  be  making  fun  of  ¢&quot;  me,  trying  to  trick  me  into  ex-  #  posing  what  he  took  to  be  my  hideous  bourgeois  soul,  but  whatever  his  game  I  wasn't  going  to  give  myself  away.  &quot;Help  yourself,&quot;  Albert  said,  pushing  toward  me  a  breadboard  with  a  round  loaf  and  a  hunk  of  cheese  on  it.  A  big-  bladed  knife  lay  on  the  table,  and  I  be-  gan  cutting  the  bread.  &quot;And  if  you'dcut  just  a  little  piece  of  cheese  for  Alice.&quot;  I  immediately  cuta  little  piece  forAlice.  Albert  disappeared  into  the  kitchen,  and  in  the  room's  dusk  I  stared  across  the  round  table  at  Alice  before  looking  away  uncomfortably.  Albert  returned  with  a  wax  carton  of  orange  juice  and  a  small  brown  bottle  of  beer,  both  of  which  he  set  before  me.  &quot;The  choice,&quot;  he  said  with  a  little  bow,  &quot;is  yours  entirely.&quot;  He  picked  up  the  piece  of  cheese  I  had  cut  for  Alice,  placed  it  on  her  plate,  and  broke  it  into  smaller  pieces.  Alice  looked  at  him-it  seemed  to  me  that  she  looked  at  him-with  those  moist  and  heavy-  lidded  eyes,  and  flicked  up  her  cheese.  Then  she  placed  her  throat  on  the  table  edge  and  sat  very  still.  Albert  sat  down  and  cut  himself  a  piece  of  bread.  &quot;After  lunch  I  want  to  show  you  the  place.  Take  you  down  to  the  pond  and  so  on.&quot;  He  looked  at  me,  tilting  his  head  ina  way  I  suddenly  re-  membered.  &quot;And  you?  It's  been  a  while.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  still  a  roving  bachelor,&quot;  I  said,  and  immediately  disliked  my  fatuous  tone.  I  had  a  sudden  urge  to  talk  seri-  ously  to  Albert,  as  we'd  done  in  the  old  days,  watching  the  night  turnslowly  gray  through  our  tall,  arched  windows.  But  I  felt  constrained.  It  had  been  too  long  a  time.  And  though  he  had  sum-  moned  me  after  all  these  years  and     THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  25  &amp;  SEPTEMBER  1,  1997  though  he  had  shown  me  his  wife,  it  was  all  askew  somehow,  as  if  he  hadn't  shown  me  anything,  as  if  he'd  kept  himself  hid-  den  away.  &quot;I  see  women,&quot;  I  continued,  &quot;but  they're  not  the  right  ones.  You  know,  I  was  always  sure  I'd  be  the  one  to  get  married,  not  you.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  something  I  planned.  But  when  the  moment  comes,  you'll  know  He  looked  at  Alice  with  tender—  ness  and  suddenly  leaned  over  and  touched  the  side  of  her  head  lightly  with  his  fingertips.  &quot;How  did  you,&quot;  I  began,  and  stopped.  I  felt  like  burst-  ing  into  screams  of  wild  laughter,  or  of  outrage,  pure  outrage,  but  I  held  myself  down.  &quot;I  mean,  how  did  you  *  meet?  You  two.  If  I  may  ask.&quot;  &quot;So  formal!If  you  may  ask!  Down  by  the  pond-if  I  may  answer.  I  saw  her  in  the  reeds  one  day.  I'd  never  seen  her  before,  but  she  was  always  there,  after  that.  I'll  show  you  the  exactplace  after  lunch.&quot;  His  little  mocking  rebuke  irritated  me,  and  I  recalled  how  he  had  always  ir-  ritated  me,  and  made  me  retreat  deeply  into  myself,  because  of  some  little  ironic  look,  and  it  seemed  strange  that  some-  one  who  irritated  me  and  made  me  re-  treat  into  myself  was  also  the  person  who  released  me  into  a  freer  version  of  myself,  superior  to  the  constricted  one  that  had  always  felt  like  my  own  hand  on  my  throat.  Who  was  Albert,  after  all,  that  he  should  have  the  power  to  re-  lease  me  or  constrict  me-this  man  I  no  longer  knew,  with  his  run-down  house  and  his  ludicrous  frog-wife.  Then  I  ate  for  a  while  in  sullen  silence,  looking  only  at  my  food,  and  when  I  glanced  up  I  saw  him  looking  at  me  kindly,  almost  affectionately.  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  he  sald  quietly,  as  if  he  understood,  as  if  he  knew  how  difficult  it  was  for  me,  this  journey,  this  wife,  this  life,  and  I  was  grateful,  as  I  had  always  been,  for  we  had  been  close,  he  and  I,  back  then.  FTER  lunch  he  insisted  on  showing  me  his  land-his  domain,  as  he  called  it.  I  had  hoped  that  Alice  might  stay  behind,  so  that  I  could  speak  with  him  alone,  but  it  was  clear  that  he  wanted  her  to  come  with  us.  So  as  we  made  our  way  out  the  back  door  and  into  his  domain  she  followed  along,  tak-  ing  hops  about  two  strides  in  length,  always  a  little  behind  usor  a  little  be-  fore.  At  the  back  of  the  house  a  patch  of  overgrown  lawn  led  to  a  vegetable  garden  on  both  sides  of  a  grassy  path.  There  were  vines  of  green  peas  and  stringbeans  climbing  tall  sticks,  clusters  of  green  peppers,  rows  of  carrots  and  radishes  identified  by  seed  packets  on  short  sticks,  fat  heads  of  lettuce  and  flashes  of  yellow  squash-a  rich  and  well-tended  oasis,  as  if  the  living  center  of  the  house  were  here,  on  the  outside,  hidden  in  back.  At  the  end  of  the  gar-  den  grew  a  scattering  of  fruit  trees,  pear  and  cherry  and  plum.  An  old  wire  fence  with  a  broken  wooden  gate  separated  the  garden  from  the  land  beyond.  We  walked  along  a  vague  footpath  through  fields  of  high  grass,  passed  into  thickets  of  oak  and  maple,  crossed  a  stream.  Alice  kept  up.  Alice  in  sunlight,  Alice  in  the  open  air  no  longer  seemed  a  grotesque  pet,  a  monstrous  mistake  of  nature,  a  nightmare  frog  and  freak-  ish  wife,  but  rather  a  companion  of  sorts-Albert's  pal.  And  yet  it  was  more  than  that.  Once,  when  she  emerged  from  tree  shade  into  full  sunlight,  I  sensed  for  a  moment,  with  an  inner  start,  Alice  as  she  was,  Alice  in  the  sheer  brightness  and  fullness  of  her  being,  as  if  the  dark  malachite  sheen  of  her  skin,  the  pale  shimmer  of  her  throat,  the  moist  warmth  of  her  eyes  were  as  natu-  ral  and  mysterious  as  the  flight  of  a  bird.  Then  I  tumbled  back  into  myself  and  realized  that  I  was  walking  with  my  old  friend  beside  a  monstrous  lumbering  frog  who  had  somehow  become  his  wife,  and  a  howl  of  inward  laughter  and  rage  erupted  in  me.  The  pond  appeared  suddenly,  on  the  far  side  of  a  low  rise.  Reeds  and  cattails  grew  in  thick  clusters  at  the  marshy  edge.  We  sat  down  on  flat-topped  boul-  ders  and  looked  out  at  the  green-brown  water,  where  a  few  brown  ducks  floated,  out  past  fields  to  a  line  of  low  hills.  There  was  a  desolate  beauty  about  the  place,  as  if  we  had  come  to  the  edge  of  the  world.  &quot;It  was  over  there  I  first  saw  her,&quot;  Albert  said,  pointing  to  a  cluster  of  reeds.  Alice  sat  off  to  one  side,  in  a  clump  of  grass  at  the  water's  edge.  She  was  as  still  as  a  rock,  except  for  her  sides  moving  in  and  out  as  she  breathed.  I  imagined  her  growing  in  the  depths  of  the  pond,  under  a  mantle  of  lily  pads  and  mottled  scum,  down  below  the  rays  A  VISIT  of  green  sunlight,  far  down,  at  the  silent  bottom  of  theworld.  Albert  leaned  back  on  both  elbows,  a  pose  I  remembered  well,  and  stared  out  at  the  water.  For  a  long  while  we  sat  in  a  silence  that  struck  me  as  uncomfort-  able,  though  he  himself  seemed  atease.  It  wasn't  so  much  that  I  felt  awkward  in  Alice's  presence  as  that  I  didn't  know  what  I  had  come  all  this  way  to  say.  Did  I  really  want  to  speak  at  all?  Then  Albert  said,  &quot;Tell  me  about  your  life.&quot;  And  I  was  grateful  to  him,  for  that  was  exactly  what  I  wanted  to  talk  about,  my  life.  I  told  him  about  my  almost-marriage;  my  friendships  that  lacked  excitement;  my  girlfriends  who  lacked  one  thing  or  an-  other;  my  good  job  that  somehow  wasn't  exactly  what  I  had  been  looking  for,  back  then;  and  my  feeling  that  things  were  all  right  but  not  as  all  right  as  they  might  be,  that  I  was  not  unhappy  but  not  really  happy  either,  butcaught  in  some  intermediate  place,  looking  both  ways.  &quot;It's  hard,&quot;  Albert  then  said,  in  the  tone  of  someone  who  knew  what  I  was  talking  about,  and  though  I  was  soothed  by  his  words,  which  were  spoken  gen-  tly,  I  was  disappointed  that  he  didn't  say  more,  that  he  didn't  show  himself  to  me.  And  I  said,  &quot;Why  did  you  write  to  me,  after  all  this  time?&quot;  which  was  only  another  way  of  saying,  why  didn't  you  write  to  me,  in  all  this  time.  a  fewand  tossing  them  into  his  mouth.  He  pulled  off  anotherhandful  and  held  them  down  to  Alice,  who  devoured  them  swiftly:  flick,flick,  flick.  He  showed  me  a  woodpecker's  nest,  and  a  slope  of  wild  tiger  lilies,  and  an  old  toolshed  containing  a  rusty  hoeand  a  rusty  rake.  Suddenly,  from  a  nearby  field,  a  big  bird  rose  up  with  a  loud  beating  of  wings.  &quot;Did  you  see  that!&quot;  cried  Al-  bert,  seizing  my  arm.  &quot;A  pheasant!  Pro-  tecting  her  young.  Over  there.&quot;  In  the  high  grass,  six  furry  little  ducklike  crea-  tures  walked  in  a  line,  their  heads  barely  visible.  At  dinner,  Alice  sat  in  her  chair  with  her  throat  resting  on  the  edgeof  the  table  while  Albert  walked  briskly  in  and  out  of  the  kitchen.  I  was  pleased  to  see  a  fat  bottle  of  red  wine,  which  he  poured  into  two  juice  glasses.  The  glasses  had  pictures  of  Winnie-the-Pooh  andEe-  yore  on  them.  &quot;Guy  gave  them  to  me  at  a  gas  station,&quot;  Albert  said.  He  frowned  suddenly,  pressed  his  fingertips  against  his  forehead,  looked  up  with  a  radiant  smile.  &quot;I've  got  it.  The  more  it  szows  (Tiddely  pom),  the  more  it  goes  (Tiddely  pom).&quot;  He  poured  a  little  wine  into  a  ce-  real  bowl  and  placed  it  near  Alice.  Dinner  was  a  heated-up  supermarket  chicken,  fresh  squash  from  his  garden,  and  big  bowls  of  garden  salad.  Albert  145  was  in  high  spirits,  humming  snatches  of  songs,  lighting  a  stub  of  candle  in  a  green  wine  bottle,  filling  our  wineglasses  and  Alice's  bowl  again  and  again,  urg-  ing  me  to  drink  up,  crunching  lustily  into  his  salad.  The  cheap  wine  burned  my  tongue  but  I  kept  drinking,  taken  by  Albert's  festive  spirit,  eager  to  carry  my-  self  into  his  mood.  Even  Alice  kept  fin-  ishing  the  wine  he  put  in  her  cereal  bowl.  The  candle  flame  seemed  to  grow  brighter  in  the  darkening  room.  A  line  of  wax  ran  down  the  bottle  and  stopped.  Albert  brought  in  his  breadboard,  more  salad,  another  loaf  of  bread.  And  as  the  meal  continued,  I  had  the  sense  that  Al-  ice,  sitting  there  with  her  throat  resting  on  the  table  edge,  flicking  up  her  wine,  was  looking  at  Albert  with  those  large  eyes  of  hers,  moist  and  dark  in  the  flamelight,  trying  to  attract  his  atten-  tion.  And  Albert,  leaning  back  in  his  chair,  laughing,  throwing  his  arm  about  as  he  talked,  appeared  to  be  darting  glances  back  at  her.  Yes,  they  were  ex-  changing  looks,  there  at  the  darkening  dinner  table,  looks  that  struck  me  as  amorous.  As  I  drank,  I  was  filled  with  a  warm,  expansive  feeling,  which  took  in  the  room,  the  meal,  the  Winnie-the-Pooh  glasses,  the  large  moist  eyes,  the  reflec-  tion  of  the  candle  flame  in  the  win-     &quot;I  waited,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;until  I  had  something  to  show  you.&quot;  That  was  what  he  said:  something  to  show  me.  And  I  thought  that  if  all  he  had  to  show  me  after  nine  years  was  his  run-down  house  and  his  marshy  frog-wife,  then  I  wasn'tso  badly  off,  in  my  own  way,  not  really.  After  that,  we  continued  walking  about  his  domain,  with  Alice  always  at  our  side.  He  showed  me  things,  and  I  looked.  He  showed  me  the  old  grape  arbor  that  he  had  put  back  up;  unripe  green  grapes,  hard  as  nuts,  hung  in  bunches  from  the  decaying  slats.  'Iry  one,&quot;  he  said,  but  it  was  bitteras  a  tiny  lemon.  He  laughed  at  my  grimace.  &quot;We  like  'em  this  way,&quot;  he  said,  plucking  dow,  the  glances  of  Albert  and  his  wife;  for  after  all,  she  was  the  one  he  had  chosen,  up  here  in  the  wilderness,  and  who  was  I  to  say  what  was  right  in  such  matters.  Albert  leaped  up  and  returned  with  a  bowl  of  pears  and  cherries  from  his  fruit  trees,  and  filled  my  glass  again.  I  was  settling  back  with  my  warm,  expan-  sive  feeling,  looking  forward  to  a  night  of  talk  stretching  lazily  before  me,  when  Albert  announced  that  it  was  getting  late,  and  that  he  and  Alice  would  be  re-  tiring,I  had  the  run  of  the  house.  Just  be  sure  to  blow  out  the  candle.  Nighty  night.  Through  the  roar  of  wine  I  was  aware  of  my  plunging  disappointment.  He  pulled  back  Alice's  chair  and  she  hopped  to  the  floor.  Together  they  left  the  dining  room  and  disappeared  into  the  dark  living  room,  where  he  turned  on  a  lamp  so  dim  that  it  was  like  light-  ing  a  candle.  I  heard  him  creaking  up  the  stairs,  and  thought  I  heard  a  dull  thumping  sound,  which  must  have  been  Alice  lumbering  her  way  up  beside  him.  I  sat  listening  to  the  thumps  and  creaks  of  the  upper  hall,  a  sudden  sharp  rush  of  water  in  the  bathroom  sink,  a  squeak  (what  was  that  squeak?),  a  door  shutting.  In  the  abrupt  silence,  which  seemed  to  spread  outward  from  the  table  in  widening  ripples,  4974616c79  abandoned,  there  with  the  wine  and  the  candle  and  the  glimmering  dishes.  But  it  was  bound  to  be  this  way.  I  had  watched  their  amo-  rous  looks.  Then  I  imagined  Alice  hop-  ping  onto  the  white  sheets.  And  I  tried  to  picture  frog  love,  its  possible  plea-  sures,  its  oozy  raptures,  but  I  turned  my  mind  violently  away,  for  in  the  imagin-  ing  I  felt  something  petty  and  cruel,  something  in  the  nature  of  a  violation.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  25  &amp;  SEPTEMBER  1,  1997  I  drank  down  the  last  of  the  wineand  blew  out  the  candle.  From  the  dark  room  where  I  sat,  I  could  see  a  ghostly  corner  of  the  refrigerator  in  the  kitchen  and  a  dim-lit  reddish  couch  arm  in  the  living  room,  like  a  moonlit  dead  flower.  A  car  passed  on  the  road.  Then  I  be-  came  aware  of  the  crickets,  whole  fields  and  meadows  of  them,  the  great  hum  that  I  had  always  heard  rising  from  back  yards  and  vacant  lots  in  childhood  sum-  mers,  the  long  sound  of  summer's  end.  And  yet  it  was  only  the  middle  of  sum-  mer;  just  last  week  I  had  spent  a  day  at  the  beach.  So  for  a  long  time  I  sat  at  the  dark  table,  in  the  middle  of  a  decaying  house,  listening  to  the  sound  of  sum-  mer'send.  Then  I  picked  up  my  empty  glass,  silently  saluted  Albert  and  his  wife,  and  went  up  to  bed.  But  I  could  not  sleep.  Maybe  it  was  the  wine,  or  the  mashed  mattress,  or  the  early  hour,  but  I  lay  there  twisting  in  my  sheets,  and  as  I  turned  restlessly,  the  day's  adventures  darkened  in  my  mind  and  I  saw  only  a  crazed  friend,  a  ruined  house,  an  ugly  and  monstrous  frog.  And  I  saw  myself,  weak  and  absurd,  wrench-  ing  my  mind  into  grotesque  shapes  of  sympathy  and  understanding.  WOKE  tense  and  exhausted  ina  sun-  streaked  room.  It  was  nearly  nine.  I  had  three  separate  headaches:  one  be-  hind  my  left  eye,  one  in  my  right  tem-  ple,  and  one  at  the  back  of  my  head.  I  washed  and  dressed  quickly  and  made  my  way  down  the  darkening  stairs  through  a  dusk  that  deepened  as  I  drew  toward  the  bottom.  On  the  faded  wall-  paper  I  could  make  out  two  scenes  re-  peating  themselves  in  the  distance:  a  faded  boy  in  blue  lying  against  a  faded  yellowhaystack  with  a  horn  at  his  side,  and  a  girl  in  white  drawing  water  from  a  faded  well.  The  living  room  was  empty.  The  whole  house  appeared  to  be  deserted.  On  the  round  table  in  the  twilight  of  the  din-  ing  room  the  dishes  still  sat  from  dinner.  All  I  wanted  was  a  cup  of  coffee  before  leav-  ing.  In  the  kitchen  I  found  an  old  jar  of  instant  coffee  and  a  chipped  blue  teapot  decorated  with  a  decal  ofan  orange  brontosaurus.  I  heard  sharp  sounds  and  through  the  leaves  and  branches  in  the  kitchen  window  I  saw  Albert  with  his  back  to  me,  digging  in  the  garden.  Out-  side  it  was  a  bright,  sunny  day.  Beside  him,  on  the  dirt,  sat  Alice.  I  brought  my  cup  of  harsh-tasting,  stale  coffee  into  the  dining  room  and  drank  it  at  the  table  while  I  listened  to  the  sounds  of  Albert's  shovel  strik-  ing  the  soil.  It  was  peacful  in  the  dark-  ish  room,  at  the  round  brown  table.  A  thin  slant  of  sun  glittered  in  the  open  kitchen.  There  was  the  whistle  of  a  bird,  leaves  in  the  window,  the  brown  dusk,  the  sound  of  the  shovel  striking  loam,  turning  it  over.  It  occurred  to  me  that  I  could  simply  pack  my  things  now  and  glide  away  without  the  awkwardness  of  a  leave-taking.  I  finished  the  dismal  coffee  and  car-  ried  the  cup  into  the  kitchen,  where  the  inner  back  door  stood  slightly  open.  There  I  paused,  holding  the  empty  cup  in  my  hand.  Obeying  a  sudden  impulse,  I  opened  the  door  a  little  more  and  slipped  between  it  and  the  wooden  screen  door.  His  sleeves  were  rolled  up  and  his  foot  was  pressing  down  on  the  blade  of  a  shovel.  He  was  digging  up  grassy  dirt  at  the  edge  of  the  garden,  turning  it  over,  breaking  up  the  soil,  tossing  away  clumps  of  grass  roots.  Nearby  sat  Alice,  watching  him.  From  time  to  time,  as  he  moved  along  the  edgeof  the  garden,  he  would  look  over  at  her.  Their  looks  seemed  to  catch  for  a  moment,  before  he  returned  to  his  garden.  Standing  in  the  warm  shade  of  the  half-open  door,  looking  through  the  rippling  screen  at  S.6ko  S5  A  VISIT  the  garden  quivering  with  sunlight,  I  sensed  a  mysterious  rhythm  between  them,  a  lightness  or  buoyancy,  a  sunlit  harmony.  It  was  as  if  bothof  them  had  shed  their  skins  and  were  mingling  in  air  or  dissolving  into  light,  and  as  I  felt  that  airy  mingling,  that  tender  disso-  lution,  it  came  over  me  that  what  I  lacked  in  my  life  was  exactly  that  har-  mony.  It  was  as  if  I  were  composed  of  some  hard  substance  that  couldnever  dissolve  in  anything  and  Albert  had  dis-  covered  the  secret  of  air.  But  my  throat  was  beginning  to  hurt,  thebright  light  burned  my  eyes,  and  setting  down  my  cup  on  the  counter,  which  sounded  like  the  blow  of  a  hammer,  I  pushed  open  the  door  and  went  out.  Albertturned  around.  &quot;Sleep  well?&quot;  he  said,  running  the  back  of  his  hand  slowly  across  his  dripping  forehead.  &quot;Well  enough.  But  you  know,  I've  got  to  be  getting  back.  A  millionthings  to  do!  You  know  how  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Albert  said.  He  rested  both  hands  on  the  top  of  the  long  shovel  han-  dle  and  placed  his  chin  on  his  hands.  &quot;I  know  how  itis.&quot;  His  tone  struck  me  as  brilliantly  poised  between  understanding  and  mockery.  He  brought  my  bag  down  from  my  room  and  loaded  it  in  the  car.  Alice  had  hopped  through  the  dining  room  and  living  room  andhad  come  to  rest  in  the  deep  shade  of  the  front  porch.  It  struck  me  that  she  kept  carefully  out  of  sight  of  the  road.  Albert  bent  over  the  driver's  window  and  crossed  his  arms  on  the  door.  &quot;Ifyou're  ever  up  this  way,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;drop  in.&quot;  &quot;Tl  do  that,&quot;  I  said.  Albert  stood  up  and  stretched  out  an  elbow,  rubbed  his  shoulder.  &quot;'Take  care,&quot;  he  said,  and  gave  a  little  wave  and  stepped  away.  As  I  backed  up  the  dirt  driveway  and  began  edging  onto  County  Road  39,  I  had  the  sense  that  the  house  was  with-  drawing  into  its  trees  and  shadows,  fad-  ing  into  its  island  of  shade.  Albert  had  al-  ready  vanished.  From  the  road  I  could  see  only  a  stand  of  high  trees  clustered  about  a  dark  house.  A  few  moments  later,  at  the  bend  of  the  road,  I  glanced  back  again.  I  must  have  waited  a  second  too  long,  be-  cause  the  road  was  already  dipping,  the  house  had  sunk  out  of  sight,  and  in  the  bright  sunshine  I  saw  only  a  scattering  of  roadside  trees,  a  cloudless  sky,  fields  of  Queen  Anne's  lace  stretching  away. 