  FICTION  THE  MOURNING  Why  are  the  Irish  so  predictably  unwelcome  in  [REDACTED]?  [  the  town,  on  the  gray  estate  on  the  Dun-  manway  road,  they  lived  ina  corner  house.  They  always  had.  Mrs.  Brogan  had  borne  and  brought  up  six  children  there.  Brogan,  a  council  la-  borer,  still  grew  vegetables  and  a  few  marigolds  in  its  small  back  garden.  Only  Liam  Pat  was  still  at  home  with  them,  at  twenty-three  the  youngest  in  the  family,  working  for  O'Dwyer  the  builder.  His  mother-his  father,  too,  though  ina  different  way-was  upset  when  Liam  Pat  said  he  was  thinking  of  moving  further  afield.  &quot;Cork?&quot;  his  mother  asked.  But  it  was  [REDACTED]  Liam  Pat  had  in  mind.  He  didn't  have  wild  ambitions;  but  he  wanted  to  make  what  he  could  of  himself.  At  the  Christian  Brothers'  he'd  been  the  tidiest  in  the  class.  He'd  been  attentive,  even  though  he  often  didn't  understand.  &quot;Ah,  sure,  you'll  pick  it  up,&quot;  O'Dwyer  said  when  Liam  Pat  asked  him  if  he  could  learn  a  trade.  He'd  pick  up  the  whole  lot-plumbing,  bricklaying,  carpentry,  housepainting.  He'd  have  them  all  at  his  fingertips.  Privately,  O'Dwyer's  opinion  was  that  Liam  Pat  didn't  have  enough  up-  stairs  to  master  any  trade  and  when  it  came  down  to  it  what  was  wrong  with  op-  erating  the  mixer?  &quot;Keep  the  big  mixer  turning  and  keep  Liam  Pat  Brogan  be-  hind  it&quot;  was  one  of  O'Dwyer's  good-  humored  catchphrases  on  the  sites  where  his  men  built  houses  for  him.  It  was  Dessie  Coglan  who  said  he  could  get  Liam  Pat  fixed  in  [REDACTED].  He'd  go  himself,  Dessie  Coglan  said,  if  he  didn't  have  the  wife  and  another  kid  ex-  pected.  No  way  Rosita  would  stir,  no  way  she'd  move  five  yards  from  the  estate,  with  her  mother  two  doors  down.  &quot;You'll  fall  on  your  feet  there  all  right,&quot;  Dessie  Cog-  lan  confidently  predicted.  &quot;No  way  you  won't.&quot;  Stay  with  O'Dwyer  and  he'd  be  shovelling  wet  cement  for  the  balance  of  his  days.  Dessie  was  on  the  estate  also.  He  had     BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR  married  into  it,  getting  a  house  when  the  second  child  was  born.  Dessie  had  had  big  ideas  at  the  Brothers';  with  a  drink  or  two  in  him  he  had  them  still.  There  was  his  talk  of  &quot;the  lads&quot;  and  of  &quot;connections&quot;  with  the  extreme  republican  movement,  his  promotion  of  himself  as  a  fixer.  By  trade  he  was  a  plasterer.  &quot;Give  that  man  a  phone  as  soon  as  you're  there,&quot;  he  instructed  Liam  Pat,  and  Liam  Pat  wrote  the  number  down.  He  had  always  admired  Dessie,  the  easy  way  he  had  with  Rosita  Drudy  before  he  mar-  riedher,  the  way  he  seemed  to  know  how  a  hurling  match  would  go  even  though  he  had  never  handled  a  hurley  stick  himself,  the  way  he  could  talk  through  the  ciga-  rette  he  was  smoking,  his  voice  becoming  so  low  you  couldn't  hear  what  he  was  say-  ing,  his  eyes  narrowed  to  lend  weight  to  the  confidential  nature  of  what  he  passed  on.  A  few  people  said  Dessie  Coglan  was  all  mouth,  but  Liam  Pat  disagreed.  &quot;It's  not  bad  at  [REDACTED];  Liam  Pat  wrote  on  a  postcard  to  his  parents  when  he'd  been  in  [REDACTED]  a  week.  The  man  known  to  Dessie  Coglan  had  got  him  work.  &quot;There's  a  Mr.  Huxter  on  the  lookout  for  young  fel-  lows,&quot;  the  man,  called  Feeny,  said  when  Liam  Pat  phoned  him.  &quot;The  wage  is  twice  what  O'Dwyer  gave,&quot;  he  squeezed  in  at  the  bottom  of  the  postcard,  whichhad  a  pic-  ture  of  a  Guardsman  in  a  sentry  box  on  it.  After  that,  every  four  weeks  or  so  Liam  Pat  telephoned  home  on  a  Saturday  eve-  ning.  What  he  talked  about  was  a  job  fin-  ished  or  a  new  one  begun,  how  he  waited  every  morning  to  be  picked  up  by  the  white  Nissan  van,  to  be  driven  halfway  across  [REDACTED]  from  the  area  where  he  had  a  room.  He  didn't  reveal  that  he  was  lonely,  or  that  when  he'd  asked  Huxter  about  learning  a  trade  the  foreman  had  said  take  what  was  on  offer  or  leave  it,  a  general  laborer  was  what  was  needed,  fill-  ing  in  foundations.  A  big,  black-mustached  man,Huxter  worked  as  hard  as  any  of  the  men  under  him,  stripping  himself  to  his  vest,  a  brass  buckle  on  the  belt  that  held  his  trousers  up.  What  Liam  Pat  didn't  re-  veal,  either,  was  that  from  the  first  morn-  ing  in  the  gang  Huxter  had  taken  against  him,  staring  at  him  asif  in  some  way  his  freckled  features  were  offensive.  &quot;What  kind  of  a  thing's  that?&quot;  Huxter  said  when  Liam  Pat  told  him  his  name,  and  called  him  Mick  instead.  &quot;Oh,  very  Irish,&quot;  he  would  say,  even  when  Liam  Pat  did  some-  thing  sensible,  such  as  putting  planks  down  in  the  mud  to  wheel  the  barrows  on.  When  Liam  Pat  had  been  working  with  Huxter  for  six  weeks,  the  man  called  Feeny  got  in  touch  again,  on  the  phone  one  Sunday.  &quot;How're  you  doing?&quot;  Feeny  inquired.  &quot;Are  you  settled,  boy?&quot;  Liam  Pat  said  he  was,  and  a  few  days  later,  when  he  was  with  two  other  Irish  boys  from  the  gang,  standing  up  at  thebar  in  a  public  house  called  the  Spurs  and  Horse,  Feeny  arrived  in  person.  &quot;How're  you  doing?&quot;  Feeny  said,  intro-  ducing  himself.  He  was  a  wizened-featured  man  with  black  hair  in  a  widow's  peak.  He  had  a  clerical  look  about  him,  but  he  wasn't  a  priest,  as  he  soon  made  clear:  he  worked  in  a  glass  factory,  he  said.  He  shook  hands  with  all  three  of  them,  with  Rafferty  and  Noonan  as  warmly  as  with  Liam  Pat.  He  bought  them  drinks,  refusing  to  let  them  pay  for  his,  saying  he  couldn't  allow  young  fellows.  A  bit  of  companionship  was  all  he  was  after,  he  said.  &quot;Doesn't  it  keep  the  poor  exile  going?&quot;  There  was  general  agreement  with  this  sentiment.  There  were  some  who  came  over,  Feeny  said,  who  stayed  no  longer  than  a  few  days.  &quot;Missing  the  mam,&quot;  he  said,  his  thin  lips  drawn  briefly  back  to  al-  low  a  laugh  thatRafferty  remarked  after-  ward  reminded  him  of  the  barkof  a  dog.  &quot;A  young  fellow  one  time  didn't  step  out  of  the  train,&quot;  Feeny  said.  After  that,  Feeny  often  looked  in  at  the  Spurs  and  Horse.In  subsequent  conver-  sations,  asking  questions  and  showing  an  interest,  he  learned  that  Huxter  was  pick-  ing  on  Liam  Pat.  He  didn't  know  Huxter  FILIP  PAGOWSKI  " b"personally,  he  said,  but  both  Rafferty  and  Noonan  assured  him  that  Liam  Pat  had  cause  for  more  complaint  than  he  admit-  ted  to,  that  when  Huxter  got  going  he  was  no  bloody  joke.  Feeny  sympathized,  tight-  ening  his  mouth  in  a  way  he  had,  wagging  his  head  in  disgust.  It  was  then  that  he  be-  gan  to  make  a  particular  friend  of  Liam  Pat.  He  took  him  to  greyhound  tracks;  he  found  him  abetter  place  to  live;  he  lent  him  money  when  Liam  Pat  was  short  once,  and  didn't  press  for  repayment.  As  further  weeks  went  by,  everything  would  have  been  all  right,  as  far  as  Liam  Pat  was  concerned,  if  it  hadn't  been  for  Huxter.  &quot;Ah,  no,  I'm  grand,&quot;  he  continued  to  pro-  test  when  he  made  his  Saturday  telephone  call  home,  still  not  mentioning  the  diffi-  culty  he  was  experiencing  with  the  fore-  man.  But  it  had  several  times  crossed  his  mind  that  one  Monday  morning  he  wouldn't  be  there  waiting  for  the  van  to  pick  him  up,  that  he'd  had  enough.  &quot;What  would  you  do,  though,  Liam  Pat?&quot;  Feeny  asked  in  Bob's  Dining  Rooms,  where  on  weekends  he  and  Liam  Pat  of-  ten  met  for  a  meal.  &quot;Go  home.&quot;  Feeny  nodded;  then  he  sighed  and  after  a  pause  said  it  could  come  to  that.  He'd  seen  it  before,  a  bullying  foreman  with  a  down  on  a  young  fellow  he'd  spe-  cially  pick  out.  &quot;It's  got  so's  I  hate  him.&quot;  Again  Feeny  allowed  a  silence  to  develop.  Then  he  said,  &quot;They  look  down  on  us.&quot;  &quot;How  d'you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Any  man  with  an  Irish  accent.  The  way  things  are.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  bombs  and  stuff  ?&quot;  &quot;I  mean,  you're  breathing  their  air  and  they'd  charge  you  for  it.&quot;  Feeny  leaned  forward,  over  a  plate  of  liver  and  potatoes.  He  lowered  his  voice  to  a  whisper.  &quot;They  wash  the  ware  twice  after  us.  Plates,  cups,  a  glass  you'd  take  a  drink  out  of.  I  was  in  a  launderette  one  time  and  I  offered  a  woman  the  machine  after  I'd  done  with  it.  'No,  thanks,'  she  said  soon's  I  opened  my  mouth.&quot;  Liam  Pat  had  never  had  such  an  ex-  perience,  but  people  weren't  friendly.  It  was  all  right  in  the  gang;  it  was  all  right  when  he  went  out  with  Rafferty  and  Noo-  nan,  or  with  Feeny.  But  people  didn't  smile,  they  didn't  nod  or  say  something  when  they  saw  you  coming.  In  the  place  Feeny  had  found  for  him,  a  man  who  didn't  live  there,  whose  name  he  didn't  know,  came  round  every  Sunday  morning  and  you  paid  him  and  he  wrote  out  a  slip.  He  never  said  anything,  and  Liam  Pat  used  to  wonder  if  he  had  some  difficulty  with  speech.  Although  there  was  other  people's  food  in  the  kitchen,  and  although  there  were  footsteps  on  the  stairs  and  sometimes  overhead,  in  the  weeks  Liam  Pat  had  lived  there  he  never  saw  any  of  the  other  tenants,  or  heard  voices.  The  cur-  tains  of  oneof  the  downstairs  rooms  were  always  drawn  over,  which  you  could  see  from  the  outside  and  which  added  to  the  dead  feeling  of  the  house.  &quot;It's  the  same  the  entire  time,&quot;  Feeny  said.  &quot;Stupid  as  pigs.  Can  they  write  their  names?  You  can  see  them  thinking  it.&quot;  Huxter  would  say  it  straight  out.  &quot;Get  your  guts  put  into  it,&quot;  Huxter  shouted  at  Liam  Pat,  and  once  when  something  wasn't  done  to  his  liking  he  said  there  were  more  brains  in  an  Irish  turnip.  &quot;Tow  that  bloody  island  out  into  the  sea,&quot;  he  said  another  time.  A  drop  of  their  own  medicine,  he  said.  &quot;I  couldn't  get  you  shifted,&quot;  Feeny  said.  &quot;If  I  could  I  would.&quot;  &quot;Another  gang,  like?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  in  a  couple  of  weeks  there'd  be  something.&quot;  &quot;It'd  be  great,  another  gang.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  ever  know  McTighe?&quot;  Liam  Pat  shook  his  head.  He  said  Feeny  had  asked  him  that  before.  Did  McTighe  run  a  gang,  he  asked.  &quot;He's  in  with  a  bookie.  It'd  be  a  good  thing  if  you  knew  McTighe.  Good  all  round,  Liam  Pat.&quot;  EN  days  later,  when  Liam  Pat  was  drinking  with  Rafferty  and  Noonan  in  the  Spurs  and  Horse,  Feeny  joined  them  and  afterward  walked  away  from  the  public  house  with  Liam  Pat.  &quot;Will  we  have  one  for  the  night?&quot;  he  suggested,  surprising  Liam  Pat,  because  they'd  come  away  when  closing  time  was  called  and  it  would  be  the  same  anywhere  else.  &quot;No  problem,&quot;  Feeny  said,  disposing  at  once  of  this  objection.  &quot;I  have  to  get  the  last  bus  out,  though.  Ten  minutes  it's  due.&quot;  &quot;You  can  doss  where  we're  going.  No  problem  at  all,  boy.&quot;  He  wondered  if  Feeny  was  drunk.  He'd  best  get  back  to  his  bed,  he  insisted,  but  Feeny  didn't  appear  to  hear  him.  They  turned  in  to  a  side  street.  They  went  round  to  the  back  of  a  house.  Feeny  knocked  gently  on  a  windowpane  and  the  rattle  of  television  voices  ceased  almost  immedi-  71  ately.  The  back  door  of  the  house  opened.  &quot;Here's  Liam  Pat  Brogan,&quot;  Feeny  said.  A  bulky  middle-aged  man,  with  coarse  fair  hair  above  stolid  reddish  features,  stood  in  the  rectangle  of  light.  He  wore  a  black  jersey  and  trousers.  &quot;The  hard  man,&quot;  he  greeted  Liam  Pat,  proffering  a  hand  with  a  cut  healing  along  the  edge  of  the  thumb.  &quot;Mr.  McTighe,&quot;  Feeny  completed  his  introduction.  &quot;We  were  passing.&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  led  the  way  into  a  kitchen.  He  snapped  open  two  cans  of  beer  and  handed  one  to  each  of  his  guests.  He  picked  up  a  third  from  the  top  of  a  refrigerator.  Carling  it  was,  Black  Label.  &quot;How're  you  doing,  Liam  Pat?&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  asked.  Liam  Pat  said  he  was  all  right,  but  Feeny  softly  denied  that.  More  of  the  same,  he  reported:  a  fore-  man  giving  an  Irish  lad  a  hard  time.  Mr.  McTighe  made  a  sympathetic  motion  with  his  large,  square  head.  He  had  a  hoarse  voice  that  seemed  to  come  from  the  depths  of  his  chest.  A  [REDACTED]  man,  Liam  Pat  said  to  himself  when  he  got  used  to  the  accent,  a  city  man.  &quot;Is  the  room  O.K.?&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  asked,  a  query  that  came  as  a  surprise.  &quot;Are  you  settled?&quot;  Liam  Pat  said  his  room  was  all  right,  and  Feeny  said,  &quot;It  was  Mr.  McTighe  fixed  that  for  you.&quot;  &quot;The  room?&quot;  &quot;He  did  of  course.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  house  that's  known  to  me,&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  said,  and  did  not  elucidate  fur-  ther.  He  gave  a  racing  tip-Cassandra's  Friend  at  [REDACTED]  Abbot,  the  first  race.  &quot;Put  your  shirt  on  that,  Liam  Pat,&quot;  Feeny  advised,  and  laughed.  They  stayed  no  more  than  half  an  hour,  leaving  the  kitchen  as  they  had  entered  it,  by  the  door  to  the  back  yard.  On  the  street  Feeny  said,  &quot;You're  in  good  hands  with  Mr.  McTiighe.&quot;  Liam  Pat  didn't  understand  that,  but  didn't  say  so.  It  would  have  something  to  do  with  the  racing  tip,  he  said  to  himself.  He  asked  who  the  man  who  came  round  on  Sunday  mornings  for  the  rent  was.  &quot;I  wouldn't  know  that,  boy.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I'm  the  only  lodger  there  at  the  moment.  There's  a  few  shifted  out,  I'd  say.&quot;  &quot;It's  quiet  for  you  so.&quot;  &quot;It's  quiet  all  right.&quot;  Liam  Pat  had  to  walk  back  to  the  house  that  night;  there'd  been  no  question  of  dossing  down  in  Mr.  McTighe's.  It  took  him  nearly  two  hours,  but  the  night  " b"T2  was  fine  and  he  didn't  mind.  He  went  over  the  conversation  that  had  taken  place,  recalling  Mr.  McTighe's  concern  for  his  well-being,  still  bewildered  by  it.  He  slept  soundly  when  he  lay  down,  not  bother-  ing  to  take  off  his  clothes,  it  being  so  late.  EEKS  went  by,  during  which  Liam  Pat  didn't  see  Feeny.  One  of  the  other  rooms  in  the  house  where  he  lodged  was  occupied  again,  but  only  for  a  week-  end,  and  then  he  seemed  once  more  to  be  on  his  own.  One  Friday  Huxter  gave  Rafferty  and  Noonan  their  cards,  accus-  ing  them  of  skiving.  &quot;Stay  if  you  want  to,&quot;  he  said  to  Liam  Pat,  and  Liam  Pat  was  aware  that  the  foreman  didn't  want  him  to  go,  that  he  served  a  purpose  as  Huxter's  butt.  But  without  his  friends  he  was  lonely,  and  a  bitter  resentment  continu-  ously  nagged  him,  spreading  from  the  foreman's  treatment  of  him.  &quot;I  think  I'll  go  back,&quot;  he  said  thenext  time  he  ran  into  Feeny,  outside  the  Spurs       and  Horse  one  night.  At  first  he'd  thought  Feeny  was  touchy  when  he  wenton  about  his  experience  in  a  launderette  or  plates  being  washed  twice;  now  he  felt  it  could  be  true.  You'd  buy  a  packet  of  cigarettes  off  the  same  woman  in  a  shop  and  she  wouldn't  pass  a  few  minutes  with  you  even  though  you'd  been  in  yesterday.  The  only  good  part  of  being  in  this  city  was  the  public  houses  where  you'd  meet  boys  from  home,  where  there  was  a  bit  of  banter  and  cheerfulness,  and  a  singsong  when  it  was  permitted.  But  when  the  evening  was  over  you  were  on  your  own  again.  &quot;Why  would  you  go  back,  boy?&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  suit  me.&quot;  &quot;I  know  what  you  mean.  I  often  thought  of  it  myself.&quot;  &quot;It's  no  life  for  a  young  fellow.&quot;  &quot;They've  driven  you  out.  They  spent  eight  centuries  tormenting  us  and  now  they're  at  it  again.&quot;  &quot;He  called  my  mam  a  hooer.&quot;  Huxter  wasn't  fit  to  tie  Mrs.  Brogan's  /  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  15,  1997  laces,  Feeny  said.  He'd  seen  it  before,  he  said.  &quot;They're  all  the  same,  boy.&quot;  &quot;Tl  finish  out  the  few  weeks  with  the  job  we're  on.&quot;  &quot;You'll  be  home  for  Christmas.&quot;  &quot;Iwill.&quot;  They  were  walking  slowly  on  the  street,  the  public  housesemptying,  the  night  air  dank  and  cold.  Feeny  paused  in  a  pool  of  darkness,  beneath  a  street  light  that  wasn't  working.  Softly,  he  said,  &quot;Mr.  McTighe  has  the  business  for  you.&quot;  It  sounded  like  another  tip,  but  Feeny  said  no.  He  walked  on  in  silence,  and  Liam  Pat  said  to  himself  it  would  be  an-  other  job,  a  different  foreman.  He  thought  about  that.  Huxter  was  the  worst  of  it,  but  it  wasn't  only  Huxter.  Liam  Pat  was  homesick  for  the  estate,  for  the  small  town  where  people  said  hullo  to  you.  Since  he'd  been  here  he'd  eaten  any  old  how,  sand-  wiches  he  bought  the  evening  before,  for  breakfast  and  again  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  burger  and  chips  later  on,  Bob's  Dining  Rooms  on  a  Sunday.  He  hadn't  thought  about  that  beforehe'd  come-  what  he'd  eat,  what  a  Sunday  would  be  like.  Sometimes  at  Mass  he  saw  a  girl  he  liked  the  look  of,  the  same  girl  each  time,  quiet-featured,  with  her  hair  tied  back.  But  when  he  went  up  to  her  after  Mass  a  few  weeks  back  she  turned  away  with-  out  speaking.  &quot;I  don't  want  another  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;Why  would  you,  Liam  Pat?  After  what  they  put  you  through?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  said  Mr.  McTighe-&quot;  &quot;Ah,  no,  no.  Mr.  McTiighe  was  only  remembering  the  time  you  and  Dessie  Cog-  lan  used  to  distribute  the  little  magazine.&quot;  They  still  walked  slowly,  Feeny  setting  the  pace.  &quot;We  were  kids,  though,&quot;  Liam  Pat  said,  astonished  at  what  was  being  said.  &quot;You  showed  your  colors  all  the  same.&quot;  Liam  Pat  didn't  understand  that.  He  didn't  know  why  they  were  talking  about  a  time  when  he  was  still  at  the  Brothers',  when  he  and  Dessie  Coglan  used  to  push  the  freedom  magazine  into  the  letter  boxes.  As  soon  as  it  was  dark  they'd  do  it,  so's  no  one  would  see  them.  Under-  cover  stuff,  Dessie  used  to  say,  and  a  couple  of  times  he  mentioned  Michael  Collins.  &quot;I  had  word  from  Mr.  McTighe,&quot;  Feeny  said.  &quot;Are  we  calling  in  there?&quot;  &quot;He'll  have  a  beer  for  us.&quot;  &quot;We  were  only  being  big  fellas  when  " b" we  went  round  with  the  magazine.&quot;  &quot;It's  remembered  you  went  round  with  it.&quot;  Liam  Pat  never  knew  where  the  cop-  ies  of  the  magazine  came  from.  Dessie  Coglan  just  said  the  lads,  but  more  likely  it  was  the  barber,  Gaughan,  an  elderly  man  who  lost  the  four  fingers  of  his  left  hand  in  1921.  Liam  Pat  often  noticed  Dessie  coming  out  of  Gaughan's  or  talk-  ing  to  Gaughan  in  his  doorway,  beneath  the  striped  barber's  pole.  In  spite  of  his  fingerless  hand,  Gaughan  could  still  shave  a  man  or  cut  a  head  of  hair.  &quot;Come  on  in,&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  invited  now,  opening  his  back  door  to  them.  &quot;That's  a  raw  old  night.&quot;  They  sat  in  the  kitchen  again.  Mr.  McTighe  handed  round  cans  of  Carling  Black  Label.  &quot;You'll  do  the  business,  Liam?&quot;  &quot;What's  that,  Mr.  McTighe?&quot;  &quot;Feeny  here'll  show  you  the  ropes.&quot;  &quot;The  thing  is,  I'm  going  back  to  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  thought  maybe  you  would  be.  'There's  a  man  will  be  going  home,'  I  said  to  myself.  Didn't  I  say  that,  Feeny?&quot;  &quot;You  did  of  course,  Mr.  McTighe.&quot;  &quot;What  I  was  thinking,  you'd  do  the  lit  tle  thing  for  me  before  you'd  be  on  your  way,  Liam.  Like  we  were  discussing  the  other  night,&quot;  Mr.  McTighe  said,  and  Liam  Pat  wondered  if  he'd  had  too  much  beer  that  night,  for  he  couldn't  remem-  ber  any  kind  of  discussion  taking  place.  N  the  house  where  Liam  Pat  lodged,  Feeny  opened  the  door  of  the  room  where  the  curtains  were  drawn  over  and  took  the  stuff  from  the  floorboards.  He  didn't  switch  the  light  on,  but  instead  shone  a  torch  into  where  he'd  lifted  away  a  section  of  the  boards.  Liam  Pat  saw  red  and  black  wires  and  the  cream-colored  face  of  a  timing  device.  Child's  play,  Feeny  said,  extinguishing  the  torch.  Liam  Pat  heard  the  floorboards  re-  placed.  He  stepped  back  into  the  passage  at  the  back  of  the  house,  off  which  the  door  of  the  room  opened.  Together  he  and  Feeny  passed  through  the  hall  and  climbed  the  stairs  to  Liam  Pat's  room.  &quot;Pull  down  that  blind,  boy,&quot;  Feeny  said.  There  was  a  photograph  of  Liam  Pat's  mother  stuck  under  the  edge  of  a  mirror  over  a  washbasin;  just  above  it,  one  of  his  father  had  begun  to  curlat  the  two  cor-  ners  that  were  exposed.  The  cheap  brown  suitcase  he'd  travelled  from  Ireland  with  was  open  on  the  floor,  clothes  he'd  brought  back  from  the  launderette  dumped  in  it,  not  yet  sorted  out.  He'd  bought  the  suit-  case  in  Lacey's,  on  Emmet  Street,  the  day  after  he  gave  in  his  notice  to  O'Dwyer.  &quot;Listen  to  me  now,&quot;  Feeny  said,  sitting  down  on  the  bed.  The  springs  rasped  noisily.  Feeny  put  a  hand  out  to  steady  the  sudden  lurch  of  the  headboard.  &quot;I'm  glad  tosee  that,&quot;  he  said,  gesturing  with  his  head  in  the  direc-  tion  of  a  card  Liam  Pat's  mother  had  made  him  promise  he'd  display  in  what-  ever  room  he  found  for  himself.  In  the  Virgin's  arms  the  infant  Jesus  raised  two  chubby  fingers  in  blessing.  &quot;I'm  not  into  anything  like  you're  thinking,&quot;  Liam  Pat  said.  &quot;Like  what's  downstairs.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  McTighe  brought  you  over,  boy.&quot;  Feeny's  wizened  features  were  without  expression.  His  priestly  suit  was  shapeless,  worn  through  at  one  of  the  elbows.  A  tie  as  narrow  as  a  bootlace  hung  from  the  soiled  collar  of  his  shirt,  its  minuscule  knot  hard  and  shiny.  He  stared  at  his  knees  when  he  said  Mr.  McTighe  had  brought  Liam  Pat  from  Ireland.  Liam  Pat  said,  &quot;I  came  over  on  my  own,  though.&quot;  Still  examining  the  dark  material  stretched  over  his  knees,  as  if  fearing  dam-  age  here  also,  Feeny  shook  his  head.  &quot;Mr.  McTighe  fixed  the  room.  Mr.  McTighe  watched  your  welfare.  I  like  the  cut  of  Liam  Pat  Brogan.&quot;  Those  were  his  words,  boy.  The  day  after  yourself  and  myself  went  round  to  him  the  first  time  wasn't  he  on  the  phone  to  me,  8  [REDACTED]  in  the  morning?  Would  you  know  what  he  said  that  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  &quot;No,  I  wouldn't.&quot;  *  'We  have  a  man  in  Liam  Pat  Brogan'  was  what  he  said.&quot;  &quot;I  couldn't  do  what  you're  saying  all  the  same.&quot;  &quot;Listen  to  me,  boy.  They  have  no  history  on  you.  You're  no  more  than  another  Paddy  going  home  for  Christmas.  D'you  under-  stand  what  I'm  saying  to  you,  Liam  Pat?&quot;  &quot;I  never  heard  of  Mr.  McTighe  till  I  was  over  here.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  friend  to  you,  Liam  Pat,  the  same  way's  I  am  myself.  Haven't  I  been  a  friend,  Liam  Pat?&quot;  &quot;You  have  surely.&quot;  &quot;That's  all  I'm  saying  to  you.&quot;  &quot;T'd  never  have  the  nerve  for  a  bomber.&quot;  &quot;Sure,  is  there  anyone  wants  to  be?  Is  there  a  man  on  the  face  of  God's  earth  would  make  a  choice,  boy?&quot;  Feeny " b" paused.  He  took  a  handkerchief  from  a  pocket  of  his  trousers  and  passed  it  be-  neath  his  nose.  For  the  first  time  since  they'd  entered  Liam  Pat's  room  he  looked  at  him  directly.  &quot;There'll  be  no  harm  done,  boy.  No  harm  to  life  or  limb.  Noth-  ing  the  like  of  that.&quot;  Liam  Pat  frowned.  He  shook  his  head,  indicating  further  bewilderment.  &quot;Mr.  McTighe  wouldn't  ask  blood-  shed  of  anyone,&quot;  Feeny  went  on.  &quot;A  Sun-  day  night.  You  follow  me  on  that?  A  Sunday's  a  dead  day  in  the  city.  Not  a  de-  tail  of  that  written  down,  though.  Neither  date  nor  time.  Nothing  I'm  saying  to  you.&quot;  He  tapped  the  side  of  his  head.  &quot;Nothing,  only  memorized.&quot;  Feeny  went  on  talking  then.  Because  there  was  no  chair  in  the  room,  Liam  Pat  sat  on  the  floor,  his  back  to  the  wall.  Child's  play,  Feeny  said  again.  He  talked  about  Mr.  McTighe  and  the  mission  that  possessed  Mr.  McTighe,  the  same  that  possessed  every  Irishman  worth  his  salt,  the  further  from  home  he  was  the  more  it  was  there.  &quot;You  understand  [REDACTED];  Feeny  said  often,  punctuating  his  long  speech  with  this  query,  concerned  in  case  there  was  incomprehension  where  there  should  be  clarity.  &quot;The  dream  of  Wolfe  Tone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  dream  of  Isaac  Butt  and  Charles  Stewart  Parnell.  The  dream  of  Lord  Edward  Fitzgerald.&quot;  The  names  stirred  classroom  memo-  ries  for  Liam  Pat,  the  lay  teacher  Riordan  requesting  information  about  them,  his  bitten  mustache  disguising  a  long  upper  Tip,  adust  of  chalk  on  his  pinstripes.  &quot;Was  your  man  Fitzgerald  in  the  Flight  of  the  Earls?&quot;  Hasessy  once  asked  from  the  back  of  the  class,  and  Riordan  was  contemptuous.  &quot;The  massacre  of  the  innocents,&quot;  Feeny  said.  &quot;Bloody  Sunday.&quot;  He  spoke  of  lies  and  deception,  of  falsity  and  broken  prom-  ises,  of  bullying  that  was  hardly  different  from  the  bullying  of  Huxter.  &quot;O'Connell,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Pearse.  Michael  Collins.  Those  are  the  men,  Liam  Pat,  and  you'll  walk  away  one  of  them.  You'll  walk  away  ten  feet  high.&quot;  As  a  fish  is  attracted  by  a  worm  and  yet  suspicious  of  it,  Liam  Pat  was  drawn  into  Feeny's  oratory.  &quot;God,  you  could  be  the  Big  Fella  himself,&quot;  Dessie  Coglan  had  complimented  him  one  night  when  they  were  delivering  the  magazines.  Liam  Pat  had  seen  the  roadside  cross  that  honored  the  life  and  the  death  of  the  Big  Fella;  he  had  seen  the  film  only  a  few  weeks  back.  He  leaned  his  head  against  the  wall  now  and,  while  staring  at  Feeny,  saw  him-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  15,  1997  self  striding  with  Michael  Collins's  big  stride.  The  torrent  of  Feeny's  assurances  and  promises,  and  the  connections  Feeny  made,  affected  him,  but  even  so  he  said,  &quot;Sure,  someone  could  be  passing  through.&quot;  &quot;There'll  be  no  one  passing,  boy.  A  Sun-  day  night's  chosen  to  make  sure  of  it.  Nothing  only  empty  offices,  no  watchmen  on  the  premises.  All  that's  gone  into.&quot;  Feeny  pushed  himself  off  the  bed.  He  motioned  with  his  hand  and  Liam  Pat  stood  up.  Between  now  and  the  incident,  Feeny  said,  there  would  be  no  one  in  the  house  except  Liam  Pat.  Write  nothing  down,  he  instructed  again.  &quot;You'll  be  questioned  after.  Policemen  will  maybe  get  on  the  train.  Or  they'll  be  at  the  docks  when  you  get  there.&quot;  &quot;What'll  I  say  to  them,  though?&quot;  &quot;Only  that  you're  going  home  to  County  Cork  for  Christmas.  Only  that  you  were  nowhere  near  where  they're  ask-  ing  you  about.  Never  in  your  life.  Never  heard  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Will  they  say  do  I  know  you?  Will  they  say  do  I  know  Mr.  McTighe?&quot;  &quot;They  won't  have  those  names.  If  they  ask  you  for  names  say  the  lads  in  your  gang,  say  Rafferty  and  Noonan,  say  any  names  you  heard  in  public  houses.  Say  Feeny  and  McTighe  if  you're  stuck.  They  won't  know  who  you're  talking  about.&quot;  &quot;Are  they  not  your  names,  then?&quot;  &quot;Why  would  they  be,  boy?&quot;  Liam  Pat's  protestationthat  he  couldn't  do  it  didn't  weaken  at  first,  but  as  Feeny  wenton  and  on,the  words  becoming  im-  ages  in  Liam  Pat'svision,  he  himself  al-  ways  at  the  center  of  things,  he  became  aware  of  an  excitement.  Huxter  wouldn't  know  what  was  going  to  happen;  Huxter  would  look  at  him  and  assume  he  was  the  same.  The  people  who  did  not  say  hullo  when  he  bought  cigarettes  ora  newspa-  per  would  see  no  difference  either.  There  was  a  strength  in  the  excitement,  a  vigor  Liam  Pat  had  never  experienced  in  his  life  before.  He  would  carry  the  secret  onto  the  site  every  morning.  He  would  walk  through  the  streets  with  it,  a  power  in  him  where  there'd  been  nothing  before.  &quot;You  have  a  Corkman's  way  with  you,&quot;  Feeny  said,  and  in  the  room  with  the  drawn  cur-  tains  he  showed  Liam  Pat  the  business.  IXTEEN  days  went  by  before  the  cho-  sen  Sunday  arrived.  In  the  Spurs  and  Horse  during  that  time  Liam  Pat  wanted  to  talk  the  way  Feeny  and  Mr.  McTighe  did,  in  the  same  soft  manner,  mysteri-  " b"  ously,  some  private  meaning  in  the  words  he  used.  He  was  aware  of  a  lightness  in  his  mood  and  confidence  in  his  manner,  and  more  easily  than  before  he  was  drawn  into  conversation.  One  evening  the  bar-  maid  eyed  him  the  way  Rosita  Drudy  used  to  eye  Dessie  Coglan  years  ago  in  Brady's  Bar.  Liam  Pat  didn't  see  Feeny  again,  as  Feeny  hadwarned  him  he  wouldn't.  He  didn't  see  Mr.  McTighe.  The  man  didn't  call  for  the  rent,  and  for  sixteen  days  Liam  Pat  was  the  only  person  in  the  house.  He  kept  to  his  room  except  when  he  went  to  take  up  the  sawn-through  floorboards,  fa-  miliarizing  himself  with  what  had  to  be  done,  making  sure  there  was  space  enough  in  the  sports  bag  when  the  clock  was  packed  in  a  way  that  was  convenient  to  set  it.  He  cooked  nothing  in  the  kitchen  because  Feenyhad  said  better  not  to.  He  didn't  understand  that,  but  even  so  he  obeyed  the  command,  thinking  of  it  in  that  way,  an  order,  no  questions  asked.  He  made  tea  in  his  room,  buttering  bread  and  sprinkling  sugar  on  the  butter,  opening  tins  of  beans  and  soup,  eating  the  contents  cold.  Five  times  in  all  he  made  the  jour-  ney  he  was  to  make  on  the  chosen  Sun-  day,  timing  himself  as  Feeny  had  sug-  gested,  becoming  used  to  the  journey  and  alert  to  any  variations  there  might  be.  On  the  Saturday  before  the  Sunday,  he  packed  his  suitcase  and  took  it  across  the  city  to  a  locker  at  Euston  Station,  still  fol-  lowing  Feeny's  instructions.  When  he  re-  turned  to  the  house  he  collected  what  tins  he'd  opened  and  what  food  was  left  and  filled  a  shopping  bag,  which  he  deposited  in  a  dustbin  on  another  street.  The  next  day  he  had  a  meal  at  one  o'clock  in  Bob's  Dining  Rooms,  the  last  he  would  ever  have  there.  The  people  were  friendlier  than  they'd  been  before.  Nothing  that  belonged  to  him  re-  mained  in  his  room,  or  in  the  house,  when  he  left  it  for  the  last  time.  Feeny  said  to  clean  his  room  with  the  Philips  vacuum  cleaner  that  was  kept  for  general  use  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs.  He  said  to  go  over  everywhere,  all  the  surfaces,  and  Liam  Pat  did  so,  using  the  little  round  brush  with-  out  any  extension  on  the  suction  tube.  For  his  own  protection,  that  was.  Wipe  the  handles  of  the  doors  with  a  tissue  last  thing  of  all,  Feeny  had  advised,  anywhere  he  might  have  touched.  Shortly  after  seven  he  practiced  the  timing  again.  He  wanted  to  smoke  a  ciga-  rette  in  the  downstairs  room,  but  he  didn't  because  Feeny  had  said  not  to.  He  zipped  up  the  sports  bagand  left  the  house  with  it.  Outside,  he  lit  a  cigarette.  On  the  way  to  the  bus  stop,  two  streets  away,  he  dropped  the  key  of  the  house  down  a  drain,  an  instruction  also.  When  Feeny  had  been  advising  him  about  clean-  ing  the  surfaces  and  making  sure  nothing  was  left  that  could  identify  him,  Liam  Pat  hadhad  the  impression  that  Mr.  Mc-  Tighe  wouldn't  have  bothered  with  any  of  that,  that  all  Mr.  McTighe  was  interested  in  was  getting  the  job  done.  He  went  up-  stairs  on  the  bus  and  sat  at  the  back.  A  couple  got  off  at  the  next  stop,  leaving  him  on  his  own.  It  was  then  that  Liam  Pat  began  to  feel  afraid.  It  was  one  thing  to  have  it  over  Huxter,  to  know  what  Huxter  didn't  know;  it  was  one  thing  to  get  a  smile  from  the  barmaid.  It  was  another  altogether  to  be  sitting  on  a  bus  with  a  device  in  a  sports  bag.  The  excitement  that  had  first  warmed  him  while  he  listened  to  Feeny,  while  he  sat  on  the  floor  with  his  head  resting  against  the  wall,  wasn't  there  any-  more.  Mr.  McTiighe  picking  him  out  felt  different  now,  and  when  he  tried  to  see  himself  in  Michael  Collins's  trenchcoat,  with  Michael  Collins's  stride,  there  was  nothing  there,  either.  It  sounded  mean-  ingless,  Feeny  saying  he  had  a  Corkman's  way  with  him.  He  sat  with  the  sports  bag  on  the  floor,  steadied  by  hisfeet  on  eitherside  of  it.  A  weakness  had  come  into  his  arms,  and  for  a  moment  he  thought  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  lift  them,  but  when  he  tried  it  was  all  right,  even  though  the  feeling  ofweakness  was  still  there.  A  moment  later  nausea  caused  him  to  close  his  eyes.  The  bus  lurched  and  juddered  through  the  empty  Sunday-evening  streets.  Idling  at  bus  stops,  its  engine  vibrated,  and  be-  tween  his  knees  Liam  Pat's  hand  repeat-  edly  reached  down  to  seize  the  handles  of  the  sports  bag,  steadying  it  further.  He  wanted  to  get  off,  to  hurry  down  the  stairs  that  were  beside  where  he  was  sitting,  to  jump  off  the  bus  while  it  was  still  mov-  ing,  to  leave  the  sports  bag  where  it  was.  He  sensed  what  he  did  not  understand:  that  all  this  had  happened  before,  that  his  terror  had  come  so  suddenly  because  he  was  experiencing,  again,  what  he  had  ex-  perienced  already.  Two  girls  came  chattering  up  the  stairs  and  walked  down  the  length  of  the  bus.  They  laughed  as  they  sat  down,  one  of  them  bending  forward,  unable  to  control  " b"80  herself.  The  other  w  ent  on  with  w  hat  she  was  saying,  laughing,  too,  but  L  iam  Pat  couldn't  hear  what  she  said.  The  conduc-  tor  came  for  t  heir  fares  and  when  he'd  gone  they  found  they  didn't  have  a  light  for  t  heir  cigarettes.  The  one  who'd  laughed  so  much  was  on  the  inside,  next  to  the  wi  ndow.  The  other  one  got  up.  &quot;Ta,  &quot;  she  said  when  she  had  asked  Liam  Pat  if  he  had  a  lighter  and  he  handed  her  his  box  of  matches.  He  didn't  s  trik  e  one  because  of  the  shaking  in  his  hands,  but  even  so  she  m  ust  have  seen  it.  &quot;Ta,&quot;  she  s  aid  again.  It  could  have  been  in  a  dream.  He  could  have  dreamed  he  was  on  a  bus  with  the  bag.  He  coul  d  hav  e  had  a  dream  and  forgotten  it,  like  you  sometimes  did.  The  night  he'd  seen  Feen  y  for  the  last  time,  it  could  have  been  he  had  a  dream  of  be  -  ing  on  a  bus,  and  he  tried  to  remember  waking  up  the  next  morning,  but  he  couldn't.  The  girl  next  to  the  window  look  ed  over  her  shoulder,  as  if  she'd  just  been  told  that  he'd  handed  her  fri  end  the  box  in-  ste  ad  of  s  triking  a  match  fo  r  her.  They'd  remember  him  because  of  that.  The  o  ne  who'd  approached  him  would  r  emembe  r  the  sports  bag  .  &quot;C  heers,&quot;  the  same  one  said  w  hen  they  both  lef  t  the  bus  a  couple  of  stops  later.  It  wasn't  a  dream.  It  was  the  Ex  am-  imer  spread  o  ut  on  the  kitchen  table  a  few  months  ago  and  his  father  shaking  hi  s  head  over  the  photo  gr  aph  of  a  funeral  procession,  sourly  demanding  why  those  people  couldn't  have  been  left  to  their  grief,  why  there  were  men  in  balaclava  helmets  standing  by  to  carry  the  coffin  of  a  boy  who'd  blown  himself  up  in  Londo  n,  wha  t  rema  ined  of  hi  m  brought  home.  &quot;My  God!  My  God!&quot;  his  father  savagely  exclaimed.  It  hadn't  wor  ked  t  hat  first  time.  A  Sunday  night  then,  too,  a  nothe  r  boy,  another  bus.  Liam  Pat  tried  to  remember  tha  t  boy's  name  ,  bu  t  he  couldn't.  &quot;Poor  bloody  hero,&quot;  his  fa  -  t  her  said,  pushing  t  he  Examiner  away  from  him.  Another  Dessie  C  oglan  had  fixed  it,  i  n  touch  with  another  Gau  ghan,  in  touch  with  the  lads.  Another  Huxter  was  spe-  cially  picked.  Another  Feeny  said  there'd  be  time  to  spare  to  get  to  Euston  after-  ward,  no  harm  to  life  or  limb,  ten  exactly  the  train  was.  The  bits  and  pieces  had  been  scraped  up  from  the  pavement  and     the  street,  skin  and  bone,  part  of  a  wallet  fifty  yards  away.  The  lads  paraded  at  the  fune  ral.  Big  Ben  was  chiming  eight  when  he  got  off  the  bus,  carrying  the  spo  rts  bag  slightly  away  from  his  body,  although  he  knew  that  was  a  p  ointless  precaut  ion  .  His  hand  s  weren't  shaking  anymore,  the  sick-  ness  in  his  stomach  had  passed,  but  still  he  was  afraid,  the  same  fear  that  had  be-  gun  on  the  bus,  cold  in  him  now.  N  ot  far  from  where  Big  Ben  had  sounded  there  was  a  br  idge  over  the  river.  He'd  crossed  it  with  Rafferty  and  Noonan  his  first  weekend  in  [REDACTED],  when  they'd  thought  th  ey  were  going  to  Ful  ham,  onl  y  th  ey  got  it  all  wrong.  He  knew  which  way  to  go,  but  when  he  reac  hed  the  river  wall  he  had  to  wait  beca  use  t  here  were  people  around,  and  cars  going  by.  And  w  hen  the  m  oment  came,  when  he  had  the  bag  on  the  curved  top  of  the  wall,  another  car  went  by  and  he  thought  it  wo  uld  stop  and  come  ba  ck,  that  the  people  in  it  wou  ld  know.  But  that  car  went  on,  and  the  bag  fel  l  with  hardly  a  splash  into  the  river,  and  nothing  happened.  O\xe2\x80\x99DWYER  had  work  for  him,  only  he'd  have  to  wait  until  March,  un-  til  old  Hoyne  reached  the  month  of  hisre-  tirement.  Working  the  mixer  it  would  be  again,  tarring  roofs,  sweeping  the  yard  at  the  end  of  the  day.  He'd  get  on  grand,  O'Dwyer  said.  Wait  awhile  and  you'd  never  know;  wait  awhile  and  Liam  Pat  could  be  his  right-hand  man.  There  were  no  hard  feelings  because  Liam  Pat  had  taken  himself  off  for  a  while.  &quot;Keep  your  tongue  to  your-  self,&quot;  Mrs.  Brogan  had  warned  her  husband  in  a  quiet  moment  the  evening  Liam  Pat  so  unex-  pectedly  returned.  It  surprised  them  that  he  had  come  the  way  he  had,  a  roundabout  route,  when  he  might  have  come  the  way  he  went,  the  Wexford  crossing.  &quot;I  missed  the  seven  train,&quot;  he  lied,  and  Mrs.  Brogan  knew  he  was  lying  because  she  had  that  instinct  with  her  children.  Maybe  something  to  do  with  a  girl,  she  imagined,  his  suddenly  coming  back.  But  she  left  that  uninvesti-  gated,  too.  &quot;Ah,  sure,  it  doesn't  suit  everyone,&quot;  Dessie  Coglan  said  in  Brady's  Bar.  Any  day  now  it  was  for  Rosita  and  he  was  full  of  that.  He  never  knew  a  woman  get  preg-  nant  as  easy  as  Rosita,  he  said.  He  didn't  ask  Liam  Pat  if  he'd  used  the  telephone  number  he'd  given  him,  if  that  was  how  he'd  got  work.  &quot;You  could  end  up  with  fourteen  of  them,&quot;  he  said.  Rosita  herself  was  one  of  eleven.  Liam  Pat  didn't  say  much,  either  to  O'Dwyer  or  at  home  or  to  Dessie  Cog-  lan.  Time  hung  heavy  while  old  Hoyne  worked  out  the  few  months  left  of  his  years  with  O'Dwyer.  Old  Hoyne  had  never  risen  to  being  more  than  a  general  laborer,  and  Liam  Pat  knew  he  never  would,  either.  He  walked  out  along  the  Mountross  road  every  afternoon,  the  icy  air  of  a  bit-  terly  cold  season  harsh  on  his  hands  and  face.  Every  day  of  January  and  a  milder  February,  going  by  the  rusted  gates  of  Mountross  Abbey  and  the  signpost  to  Ballyfen,  he  thought  about  the  funeral  at  which  there'd  been  the  unwanted  pres-  ence  of  the  lads,  and  sometimes  saw  it  as  his  own.  All  his  life  he  would  never  be  able  to  tell  anyone.  He  could  never  describethat  silent  house  or  the  stolid  features  of  Mr.  McTighe  or  repeat  Feeny's  talk.  He  could  never  speak  of  the  girls  on  the  bus,  how  he  hadn't  been  able  to  light  a  match,  or  how  so  abruptly  he  realized  that  this  was  the  second  attempt.  He  could  never  say  that  he'd  stood  with  the  sports  bag  on  the  river  wall,  that  nothing  had  happened  when  it  struck  the  water.  Nor  that  he  cried  when  he  walked  away,  that  tears  ran  down  his  cheeks  and  onto  his  clothes,  that  he  cried  for  the  bomber  who  might  have  been  himself.  He  might  have  left  the  bag  on  the  bus,  as  he  had  thought  he  would.  He  might  have  hurried  down  the  stairs  and  jumped  off  quickly.  But  in  his  fear  he  had  found  a  shred  of  courage  and  it  had  to  do  with  the  boy;  he  knew  that  now  and  could  remem-  ber  the  feeling.  It  was  his  mourning  of  the  boy,  as  he  might  have  mourned  himself.  On  his  walks,  and  when  he  sat  down  to  his  meals,  and  when  he  listened  to  his  parents'  conversation,  the  mourning  was  still  there,  lonely  and  private.  It  was  there  in  Brady's  Bar  and  in  the  shops  of  the  town  when  he  went  on  his  mother's  er-  rands.  It  would  be  there  when  again  he  took  charge  of  a  concrete  mixer  for  O'Dwyer,  when  he  shovelled  wet  cement  and  worked  in  all  weathers.  On  the  Mountross  road  Liam  Pat  didn't  walk  with  the  stride  of  Michael  Collins,  but  wondered  instead  about  the  courage  his  fear  had  allowed,  and  begged  that  his  mourning  would  not  ever  cease.  %     "