IGHTY  people  waited  in  a  darkened  meet-  ing  room  at  the  Hyatt  wearing  mass-produced  paper  hats.  The  White  Hats  were  Beginning  to  Begin.  The  Pink  Hats  were  Moving  Ahead  in  Beginning.  The  Green  Hats  were  Very  Firmly  Beginning,  all  the  way  up  to  the  Gold  Hats,  who  had  Mas-  tered  Living  and  were  standing  in  a  group  around  the  snack  table,  whisper-  ing  and  conferring  and  elbowing  one  another  whenever  someone  in  a  lesser  hat  walked  by.  Trumpets  sounded  from  a  concealed  tape  deck.  An  actor  in  a  ripped  flannel  shirt  stumbled  across  the  stage  with  a  sign  around  his  neck  that  said  &quot;You.&quot;  &quot;I'm  lost!&quot;  You  cried.  &quot;I'm  wandering  in  a  sort  of  wilderness!&quot;  &quot;Hey,  You,  come  on  over!&quot;  shouted  a  girl  across  the  stage,  labelled  &quot;Inner  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  bet  you've  been  looking  for  me  your  whole  life!&quot;  &quot;Boy,  have  I!&quot;  said  You.  &quot;Ill  be  right  over!&quot;  But  then  out  from  the  wings  sprinted  a  number  of  other  actors,  labelled  &quot;Whiny&quot;  and  &quot;Self-Absorbed&quot;  and  &quot;Blames  Her  Fat  on  Others,&quot;  and  so  on,  who  draped  themselves  across  You  and  began  poking  him  in  the  ribs  and  giving  him  noogies.  &quot;Oh,  I  can't  believe  you  love  Inner  Peace  more  than  you  love  me,  You!&quot;  said  Insecure.  'That  really  hurts.&quot;  &quot;Frankly,  I've  never  been  so  disap-  pointed  in  my  life,&quot;  said  Disappointed.  &quot;Oh,  God,  all  this  arguing  is  giving  me  a  panic  attack,&quot;  said  Too  High-  Strung  to  Function.  &quot;I'm  waiting,  You,&quot;  said  Inner  Peace.  &quot;Do  you  want  me  or  not?&quot;  &quot;I  do,  but  I  seem  to  be  trapped!&quot;  You  shouted.  &quot;I  can't  seem  to  get  what  I  want!&quot;  +7  pre  a  7  +4     BY  GEORGE  SAUNDERS  &quot;You  and  about  a  billion  other  peo-  ple  in  this  world,&quot;  said  Inner  Peace  sadly.  &quot;Is  there  nohope  for  me?&quot;  asked  You.  &quot;If  only  someone  had  made  a  life-  long  study  of  the  roadblocks  people  en-  counter  on  their  way  to  Inner  Peace!&quot;  &quot;And  yet  someone  has,&quot;  said  Inner  Peace.  Another  fanfare  sounded  from  the  tape  deck,  and  a  masked  Gold  Hat,  whose  hat  appeared  to  be  made  of  ac-  tual  gold,  bounded  onto  the  stage,  flexed  his  muscles,  and  dragged  Insecure  to  a  paper  jail,  on  which  was  written  &quot;Pokey  for  Those  Who  Would  Keep  Us  from  Inner  [REDACTED];  Then  the  Gold  Hat  dragged  Chronically  Depressed  and  Clingy  and  Helpless  and  the  rest  across  the  stage  and  shoved  them  into  the  Pokey.  &quot;See  what  I  just  did?&quot;  said  the  Gold  Hat.  &quot;I  just  liberated  You  from  those  who  would  keep  him  from  Inner  Peace.  So  good  for  You!  Question  is,  is  You  going  to  be  able  to  stay  liberated?  Maybe  what  You  needs  is  a  repeated  internal  re-  minder.  A  mantra.  A  mantra  can  be  thought  of  as  a  repeated  internal  re-  minder,  can't  it?  Does  anyone  out  there  have  a  good  snappy  mantra  they  could  perhaps  share  with  You?&quot;  The  crowd  was  delighted,  because  they  knew  the  mantra.  Even  the  lowly  White  Hats  knew  the  mantra-even  Neil  Yaniky,  who  sat  spellbound  and  in-  secure  in  the  first  row,  sucking  his  mus-  tache,  knew  the  mantra,  because  it  was  on  all  the  TV  commercials  and  also  on  the  front  cover  of  the  Orientation  Text  in  big  bold  letters.  &quot;Give  it  to  me,  folks!&quot;  shouted  the  Gold  Hat.  &quot;What  time  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Now  Is  the  Time  for  Me  to  Win!&quot;  the  crowd  shouted.  &quot;You  got  that  right,  baby!&quot;  said  the  Gold  Hat  exultantly,  ripping  off  his  mask  to  reveal  what  many  already  sus-  pected:  this  was  not  some  mere  Gold  Hat  but  Tom  Rodgers  himself,  founder  of  the  Seminars.  &quot;What  fun!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;To  have  something  to  give,  and  people  who  so  badly  need  what  I  have  to  offer.  Here's  what  I  have  to  offer,  folks,  although  it's  not  much,  really,  just  two  simple  con-  cepts,  and  the  first  one  is:  oatmeal.&quot;  From  out  of  his  suit  he  pulled  a  bowland  a  box  of  oatmeal,  and  filled  the  bowl  with  the  oatmeal  and  held  the  bow!  up.  &quot;Simple,  nourishing,  inexpensive,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;This  represents  your  soul  in  its  pure  state.  Your  soul  on  the  day  you  were  born.  You  were  perfect.  You  were  happy.  You  were  good.  &quot;Now,  enter  Concept  No.  2:  crap.  Don't  worry,  folks,  I  don't  use  actual  crap  up  here.  Only  imaginary  crap.  You'll  have  to  supply  the  crap,  using  your  mind.  Now,  if  someone  came  up  and  crapped  in  your  nice  warm  oatmeal,  what  would  you  say?  Would  you  say,  'Wow,  super,  thanks,  please  continue  crapping  in  my  oatmeal&quot;?  Am  I  being  silly?  I'm  being  a  little  silly.  But,  guess  what,  in  real  life  people  come  up  and  crap  in  your  oatmeal  all  the  time-  friends,  co-workers,  loved  ones,  even  your  kids,  especially  your  kids!-and  that's  exactly  what  you  do.  You  say,  Thanks  so  much!  You  say,  'Crap  away&quot;  You  say,  and  here  my  metaphor  breaks  down  a  bit,  'Is  there  some  way  I  can  help  you  crap  in  my  oatmeal&quot;  &quot;Let  me  tell  you  something  amazing:  I  was  once  exactly  like  you  people.  A  certain  someone,  a  certain  guy  who  shall  remain  nameless,  was  doing  quite  a  bit  of  crapping  in  my  oatmeal,  and  simply  because  he'd  had  some  bad  luck,  simply  because  he  was  in  some  pain,  simply  be-  cause,  actually,  he  was  in  a  wheelchair,  &amp;  this  certain  someone  expected  me  to  put  é  my  life  on  hold  while  he  crapped  in  my  &amp;  oatmeal  by  demanding  round-the-clock  &amp;  attention,  this  brother  of  mine,  this  Gene,  and,  whoops,  there  goes  that  cat  out  of  the  bag,  but  does  this  maybe  sound  paradoxical?  Wasn't  he  the  one  with  the  crap  in  his  oatmeal,  being  in  a  wheelchair?  Well,  yes  and  no.  Sure,  he  was  hurting.  No  surprise  there.  Guy  drops  a  motorcycle  on  a  gravel  road  and  bounces  two  hundred  yards  with-  out  a  helmet,  yes,  he's  going  to  be  some-  what  hurting.  But  how  was  that  my  fault?  Was  I  the  guy  riding  the  motor-  cycle  too  fast,  drunk,  with  no  helmet?  No,  I  was  home,  studying  my  Tacitus,  which  is  what  I  was  into  at  that  stage  of  my  life,  so  why  did  Gene  expect  me  to  consign  my  dreams  and  plans  to  the  dustbin?  I  had  dreams!  I  had  plans!  Fi-  nally,  and  this  is  all  in  my  book,  'People  of  Power,&quot;  I  found  the  inner  strength  to  say  to  Gene,  'Stop  crapping  in  my  oatmeal,  Gene,  I'm  simply  not  going  to  participate.&quot;  And  I  found  the  strength  to  say  to  our  sister  Ellen,  Ellen,  take  the  ball  that  is  Gene  and  run  with  it,  because  if  I  sell  myself  short  by  cater-  ing  to  Gene  I'm  going  to  be  one  very  angry  puppy,  and  anger  does  the  mean-  and-nasty  on  a  person,  and  I  for  one  love  myself  and  want  the  best  for  me,  because,  I  am,  after  all,  a  child  of  God.'  And  I  said  to  myself,  as  I  describe  in  the  book,  'Tom,  now  is  the  time  for  you  to  win&quot;  That  was  the  first  time  I  thought  that  up.  And  do  you  know  what?  I  won!  I'm  winning.  Today  we're  friends,  Gene  and  I,  and  he  acknowl-  edges  that  I  was  right  all  along.  And  as  for  Ellen,  Ellen  still  has  some  issues.  She'd  take  a  big  old  dump  in  my  oatmeal  right  now  ifI  gave  her  half  a  chance,  but,  guess  what,  folks,  I'm  not  giving  her  that  half  a  chance,  because  I've  installed  a  protective  screen  over  my  oatmeal-not  a  literal  screen,  but  a  metaphorical  protective  screen.  Ellen  knows  it,  Gene  knows  it,  and  now  they  pretty  much  stay  out  of  my  hair  and  away  from  my  oatmeal,  and  they've  made  a  nice  life  together,  and  who  do  you  think  paid  for  Gene's  wheelchair  ramp  with  the  money  he  made  from  a  certain  series  of  seminars?&quot;  The  crowd  burst  into  applause.  Tom  Rodgers  held  up  his  hand.  &quot;Now,  what  about  you  folks?&quot;  he  said  softly.  &quot;Is  now  the  time  for  you  to  win?  Are  you  ready  to  screen  off  your  meta-  phorical  oatmeal  and  identify  your  own  personal  Gene?  Who  is  it  that's  screw  ing  you  up?  Who's  keeping  you  from  getting  what  you  want?  Somebody  is!  God  doesn't  make  junk.  If  you're  losing,  somebody's  doing  it  to  you.  Today  I'll  be  guiding  you  through  my  Three  Essen-  tial  Steps:  Identification,  Screening,  Confrontation.  First,  we'll  Identify  your  personal  Gene.  Second,  we'll  help  you  mentally  install  a  metaphorical  Screen  over  your  symbolic  oatmeal.  Finally,  we'll  show  you  how  to  Confront  your  personal  Gene  and  make  it  clear  to  him  or  her  that  your  oatmeal  is  heretofore  off  limits.&quot;  Tom  Rodgers  looked  intensely  out  into  the  crowd.  &quot;So  what  do  you  think,  guys?&quot;  he  asked,  very  softly.  &quot;Are  you  up  for  it?&quot;  From  the  crowd  came  a  nervous  mur-  mur  of  assent.  &quot;All  right,  then,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  line  up.  Let's  line  up  for  a  change.  A  dra-  matic  change.&quot;  Then  he  crisply  left  the  stage,  and  a  spotlight  panned  across  nine  Personal  Change  Centers,  small  white  tents  set  up  in  a  row  near  the  fire  door.  Neil  Yaniky  rose  with  the  rest  and  checked  his  Line  Assignment  and  joined  his  Assigned  Line.  He  was  a  tiny  man,  nearly  thirty,  balding  on  top  and  bald-  ing  on  the  sides,  andwas  still  chewing  on  his  mustache  and  wondering  if  any-  one  or  everyone  else  at  the  seminar  could  tell  that  he  was  a  big  stupid  faker,  because  he  had  no  career,  really,  and  no  business  but  only  soldered  little  triangu-  lar  things  in  his  basement,  for  forty-  seven  cents  a  little  triangular  thing,  for  CompuParts,  although  he  had  high  hopes  for  something  better,  which  was  why  he  was  here.  The  flap  of  Personal  Change  Cen-  ter  4  flew  open  and  in  he  went,  bend-  ing  low.  Inside  were  Tom  Rodgers  and  several  assistants,  and  a  dummy  in  a  smock  sit-  ting  ina  chair.  &quot;Welcome,  Neil,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers,  glancing  at  Yaniky's  name  tag.  &quot;I'm  honored  to  have  you  in  my  Seminar,  Neil.  Now.  The  way  we'll  start,  Neil,  is  for  you  to  please  write  across  the  chest  of  this  dummy  the  name  of  your  real-  life,  personal  Gene.  That  is,  the  name  of  the  person  you  perceive  to  be  crapping  in  your  oatmeal.  Do  you  understand  what  I'm  saying?&quot;  67  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Yaniky.  Tom  Rodgers  was  talking  very  fast,  as  if  he  had  hundreds  of  people  to  change  in  a  single  day,  which  of  course  he  did.  Yaniky  had  no  problem  with  that.  He  was  just  happy  to  be  one  of  them.  &quot;Do  you  need  help  determining  who  that  person  is?&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;Your  oatmeal-crapper?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Yaniky.  &quot;Excellent,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;Now  write  the  name  and  under  it  write  the  major  way  in  which  you  per-  ceive  this  person  to  be  crapping  in  your  oatmeal.  Be  frank.  This  is  just  between  you  and  me.&quot;  On  an  erasable  marker  board  perma-  nently  mounted  in  the  dummy's  chest  Yaniky  wrote,  &quot;Winky:  Crazy-looking  and  too  religious  and  needs  her  own  place.&quot;  &quot;Super!&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;A  great  start.  Now  watch  what  I  do.  Let'sfine-  tune.  Can  we  cut  'crazy-looking'?  If  this  person,  this  Winky,  were  to  get  her  own  place,  would  the  fact  that  she  looks  crazy  still  be  an  issue?  As  much  of  an  issue?  Less  ofan  issue?&quot;  Yaniky  pictured  his  sister  looking  crazy  but  in  her  own  apartment.  &quot;Less  of  an  issue,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  right!&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers,  eras-  ing  &quot;crazy-looking.&quot;  &quot;It's  important  to  simplify  so  that  we  can  hone  in  on  ex-  actly  what  we're  trying  to  change.  O.K.  At  this  point,  we've  determined  that  if  we  can  get  her  out  of  your  house  the  crazy-looking  can  be  lived  with.  A  big  step  forward.  But  why  stop  there?  Let  me  propose  something:  if  she's  out  of  your  hair,  what  the  heck  do  you  care  if  she's  religious?&quot;  Yaniky  pictured  Winky  looking  crazy  and  talking  crazy  about  God  but  in  her  own  apartment.  &quot;It  would  definitely  be  better,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,  it  would,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers,  and  erased  until  the  dummy  was  labelled  &quot;Winky:  needs  her  own  place.&quot;  &quot;See?&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;See  how  we've  simplified?  We've  got  it  down  to  one  issue.  Can  you  live  with  this  simple,  direct  statement  of  the  problem?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Yaniky  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  can.&quot;  Yaniky  saw  now  what  it  was  about  Winky  that  got  on  his  nerves.  It  wasn't  her  formerly  red  curls,  which  had  now  68  gone  white,  so  it  looked  like  she  had  soaked  the  top  of  her  head  in  glue  and  dipped  it  in  a  vat  of  cotton  balls;  it  wasn't  the  baldspot  that  every  morn-  ingshe  painted  with  some  kind  of  white  substance;  it  wasn't  her  shiny-pink  face  that  was  always  getting  weird  joyful  looks  on  it  at  bad  times,  like  during  his  dinner  date  with  Beverly  Amstel,  when  he'd  made  his  special  meatballs  but  to  no  avail,  because  Bev  kept  glanc-  ing  over  at  Winky  in  panic;  it  wasn't  the  way  she  came  click-click-clicking  in  from  teaching  church  school  and  hugged  him  for  too  long  a  time  while  smelling  like  flower  water,  all  pumped  up  from  spreading  the  word  of  damn  Christ;  it  was  simply  that  they  were  too  old  to  be  living  together  and  he  had  things  he  wanted  to  accomplish  and  she  was  too  needy  and  blurred  his  focus.  &quot;Have  you  told  this  person,  this  Winky,  that  her  living  with  you  is  a  stumbling  block  for  your  personal  devel-  opment?&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;No,  I  haven't,&quot;  Yaniky  said.  &quot;I  thought  not,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;You're  kindhearted.  You  don't  want  to  hurt  her.  That's  nice,  but  guess  what?  You  are  hurting  her.  You're  hurting  her  by  not  telling  her  the  truth.  Am  I  saying  that  you,  by  your  silence,  are  crapping  in  her  oatmeal?  Yes,  I  am.  I'm  saying  that  there's  a  sort  of  reciprocal  crapping  go-  ing  on  here.  How  can  Winky  grow  on  a  diet  of  lies?  Isn't  it  true  that  the  truth  will  set  you  free?  Didn't  someone  once  say  that?  Wasn't  it  God  or  Christ,  which  would  be  ironic,  because  of  her  being  so  religious?&quot;  Tom  Rodgers  gestured  to  an  assis-  tant,  who  took  a  wig  out  of  a  box  and  put  it  on  the  dummy's  head.  &quot;What  we're  going  to  do  now  is  act  this  out  symbolically,&quot;  Tom  Rod-  gers  said.  &quot;Primitive  cultures  do  this  all  the  time.  They  mightthrow  Fertil-  ity  a  big  party,  say,  or  paint  their  kids  white  and  let  them  whack  Sickness  with  palm  fronds  and  so  forth.  Are  we  some-  how  smarter  than  primitive  cultures?  I  doubt  it.  I  think  maybe  we're  dumber.  Do  we  have  fewer  hemorrhoids?  Were  Incas  killed  on  freeways?  Here,  take  this.&quot;  He  handed  Yaniky  a  baseball  bat.  &quot;What  time  is  it,  Neil?&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;Time  to  win?&quot;  said  Yaniky.  &quot;Time  for  me  to  win?&quot;  &quot;Now  is  the  time  for  you  to  win,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers,  clarifying,  and  pointed  to  the  dummy.  Yaniky  swung  thebat  and  the  dummy  toppled  over  and  the  wig  flew  off  and  the  assistant  retrieved  the  wig  and  tossed  it  back  into  the  box  of  wigs,  and  Tom  Rodgers  gave  Yaniky  a  big  hug.  &quot;What  you  have  just  symbolically  said,&quot;  Tom  Rodgers  said,  &quot;is  'No  more,  Winky.  Grow  wings,  Winky.  I  love  you,  but  you're  killing  me,  and  I  am  a  good  person,  a  child  of  God,  and  don't  de-  serve  to  die.  I  deserve  to  live,  I  demand  to  live,  and,  therefore,  get  your  own  place,  girl!  Ely,  and  someday  thank  me&quot;  This  is  to  be  your  sub-mantra,  Neil,  O.K.?  Out  you  go!  On  your  way  home  today,  I  want  you  to  be  muttering,  not  angrily  muttering  but  sort  of  joyfully  muttering,  to  center  yourself,  the  follow-  ing  words:  'Now  is  the  time  for  me  to  win!  Out  you  go!  Out  you  go!&quot;  Will  you  do  that  for  me?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Yaniky,  very  much  moved.  &quot;And  now  here  is  Vicki,&quot;  said  Tom  Rodgers.  &quot;One  of  my  very  top  Gold  Hats,  who  will  walk  you  through  the  Confrontation  step.  Neil!  I  wish  you  luck,  and  peace,  and  all  the  success  in  the  world.&quot;  Vicki  had  a  face  that  looked  as  if  it  had  been  smashed  against  a  steering  wheel  in  acrash  and  then  carefully  re-  worked  until  it  somewhat  resembled  her  previous  face.  Several  parallel  curved  in-  dentions  ran  from  temple  to  chin.  She  led  Yaniky  toa  folding  table  labelled  &quot;Confrontation  Center&quot;  and  gave  him  a  sheet  of  paper  onwhich  was  written,  &quot;Gentle,  Firm,  Loving.&quot;  &quot;These  are  the  characteristics  of  a  good  Confrontation,&quot;  she  said,  some-  what  mechanically.  &quot;Now  flip  it  over.&quot;  On  the  other  side  was  written,  &quot;An-  gry,  Wimpy,  Accusatory.&quot;  &quot;These  are  the  characteristics  of  a     THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  28,  1997  bad  Confrontation,&quot;  said  Vicki.  &quot;A  de-  structive  Confrontation.  O.K.  So  let's  say  I'm  this  person,  this  Winky  per-  son,  and  you're  going  to  tell  me  to  hit  the  road.  Gentle,  Firm,  Loving.  Now  begin.&quot;  And  he  began  telling  Vicki  to  her  damaged  face  that  she  was  ruining  his  life  and  sucking  him  dry  and  that  she  had  to  go  live  somewhere  else,  and  Vicki  nodded  and  patted  his  hand,  and  now  and  then  stopped  him  to  tell  him  he  was  being  too  severe.  NEIL—NEIL  was  coming  home  soon  and  she  was  way  way  behind.  Some  days  she  took  her  time  while  cleaning,  smiling  at  happy  thoughts,  frowning  when  she  imagined  someone  being  taken  advantage  of,  and  some-  times  the  person  being  taken  advantage  of  was  a  frail  little  boy  with  a  scar  on  his  head  and  the  person  taking  advantage  was  a  big  fat  man  with  a  cane,  and  other  times  the  person  being  taken  advantage  of  was  a  kindly,  friendly  British  girl  with  a  speech  impediment  and  the  person  taking  advantage  was  her  rich,  pushy  sister  who  spoke  in  perfect  diction  and  always  got  everything  she  wanted  and  went  around  whining  while  sucking  lit-  tle  pink  candies.  Sometimes  Winky  asked  the  rich  sister  in  her  mind  how  she'd  like  to  have  the  little  pink  candies  slapped  right  out  of  her  mouth.  But  that  wasn't  right.  That  wasn't  Christ's  way!  You  didn't  slap  the  little  pink  candies  out  of  her  mouth,  you  let  her  slap  your  mouth,  seventy  timesseven  times,  which  was  like  four  hundred  times,  and  after  she'd  slapped  you  the  last  time  she  suddenly  understood  it  all  and  begged  your  forgiveness  and  gave  you  some  candy,  because  that  was  the  healing  power  of  love.  For  crying  out  loud!  What  was  she  doing?  Was  she  crazy?  It  was  time  to  get  going!  Why  was  she  standing  in  the  kitchen  thinking?  She  dashed  up  the  stairs  with  a  strip  of  broken  molding  under  her  arm  and  a  dirty  sock  over  her  shoulder.  Halfway  up  she  paused  at  a  little  oc-  tagonal  window  and  looked  dreamily  out,  thinking,  In  a  way,  we  own  those  trees.  Beyond  the  Thieus'  was  the  same  old  gap  in  the  leaning  elms  showing  the  same  old  meadow  that  would  soon  be  ToyTowne.  But  for  now  it  still  re-  WINKY  minded  her  of  the  kind  of  field  where  Christ  with  his  lap  full  of  flowers  had  suf-  fered  with  the  little  chil-  dren,  which  was  a  scene  she  wanted  to  put  on  the  cover  of  the  singing  album  she  was  going  to  make,  the  singing  album  about  God,  which  would  have  a  water-  color  cover  like  &quot;Shoulder  My  Burden,&quot;  which  was  a  book  but  anyways  it  had  this  patient  donkey  piled  high  with  crates  and  be-  hind  it  this  mountain,  and  the  point  of  that  book  was  that  if  you  take  on  the  wor-  ries  and  cares  of  others  God  or  Jesus  will  take  on  your  cares  and  worries,  so  that  was  why  the  patient  donkey  and  why  the  crates,  and  why  she  prided  herself  on  keeping  house  for  Neil-  Neil  and  never  asked  him  for  help.  Holy  cow,  what  was  she  doing  standing  on  theland-  ing!  Was  she  crazy?  Today  she  was  rushing!  She  was  giving  Neil-Neil  a  tea!  She  burstoff  the  landing,  taking  two  stairs  at  once.  The  molding  had  to  go  to  the  attic  and  the  dirty  sock  to  the  hamper.  While  she  was  up,  she  could  change  her  top.  Because  on  it  was  some  crusty  soup.  The  wallpaper  at  the  top  of  the  stairs  had  metal  flocking  and  showed  about  a  million  of  the  same  girl  whacking  a  smiling  goose  with  a  riding  crop.  Hello,  girls!  Hello,  girls!  Ha  ha!  Hello,  geese!  Not  to  leave  you  out!  From  a  drawer  in  her  room  she  took  the  green  top,  which  Neil-Neil  liked.  Once  when  she  was  wearing  it  he  had  asked  if  it  was  new.  When  had  that  been?  At  the  lunch  at  the  Beef  Barn,  when  he  paid,  when  he  asked  would  she  like  to  leave  Rustic  Village  Apartments  and  come  live  with  him.  Oh,  that  sweetie.  She  still  had  the  matchbook.  Those  had  been  sad  days  at  Rustic  Village,  with  ev-  ery  friend  engaged  but  Doris,  who  had  a  fake  arm,  and,  boy,  those  girls  could  sometimes  say  mean  things,  but  now  it  was  all  behind  her,  and  she  needed  to  send  poor  Doris  a  card.  But  not  today!  Today  she  was  rushing! Down  the  stairs  she  pounded,  still  holding  the  molding,  sock  still  over  her  shoulder.  In  the  kitchen  sheripped  open  the  cookie  bag  but  there  were  no  clean  plates,  so  she  rinsed  a  plate  but  there  was  no  towel,  so  she  dried  the  plate  with  her  top.  Hey,  she  still  had  on  the  yel-  low  top.  What  the  heck!  Where  was  the  green  top?  Hadn't  she  just  gotten  it  out  of  her  drawer?  Ha  ha!  That  was  funny.  She  should  send  that  into  They  liked  cute  funny  things  that  hap-  pened,  even  if  they  had  nothing  to  do  with  Jesus.  The  kitchen  was  a  disaster!  But  first  things  first.  Her  top  sucked.  Not  sucked,  sucked  was  a  bad  word,  her  top  was  yugly.  Dad  used  to  say  that,  yugly.  Not  about  her.  He  always  said  she  was  purty.  Sometimes  he  said  things  were  purty  yugly.  But  not  her.  He  always  said  she  was  purty  purty,  and  then  lifted  her  up.  Oh  Dad,  Daddy,  Poppy-Popp!  Was  Poppy-Popp  one  with  the  Saviour?  She  hoped  so.  Sometimes  he  used  to  swear  and  sometimes  he  used  to  drink,  and  once  he  swore  when  he  fell  down  the  stairs  when  he  was  drunk,  but  when  she  ran  to  him  he  hopped  up  laughing,  and,  oh,  when  he  sang  &quot;Peace  in  the  Valley&quot;  you  could  tell  he  felt  things  would  be  better  beyond,  which  had  been  a  super  example  for  a  young  Christian  kid  to  witness.  She  flew  back  up  the  stairs  to  change  her  top.  Here  was  the  green  top,  on  the  top  step!  Bad  top!  I  should  spank!  She  gave  the  green  top  a  snap  to  undust  it  and  discipline  it  and,  putting  the  strip  of  molding  and  the  dirty  sock  on  the  bed,  changed  tops  right  then  and  there,  picked  up  the  molding,  threw  the  dirty  sock  over  her  shoulder,  and  pounded  back  down  the  stairs.  There  were  so  manymany  things  to  do!  Not  only  now,  for  the  tea,  but  in  the  future!  It  was  time  to  get  going!  Now  that  she  was  out  of  that  lonely  apartment  she  could  finally  learn  to  play  the  piano,  and,  once  she  learned  to  play  and  write  songs,  she  could  write  her  songs  about  God,  and  then  find  out  about  making  a  record,  her  record  about  TO  God,  about  how  God  had  been  good  to  her  in  this  life,  because  look  at  her!  A  plain  girl  in  a  nice  home!  Oh,  she  knew  she  was  plain,  her  legs  were  thick  and  her  waist  was  thick  and  her  hair,  oh,  my  God-oh,  my  gosh,  rather-  her  hair,  what  kind  of  hair  was  that  to  have,  yugly  white  hair,  and  many  was  the  time  she  had  thought,  This  is  not  hair,  this  is  a  test.  The  test  of  white  sparse  hair,  when  so  many  had  gorgeous  manes,  and  that  was  why,  when  she  looked  in  a  mirror  by  acci-  dent  and  saw  her  white  horrible  hair,  shealways  tried  to  think  to  herself,  Praise  God!  Neil-Neil  was  the  all-time  sweetie  pie.  Those  girls  were  crazy!  Did  they  think  because  a  man  was  small  and  bald  he  had  no  love?  Did  they  think  bad  things  came  in  small  packages?  Neil-Neil  was  like  the  good  brother  in  the  Bible,  the  one  who  stayed  home  with  his  dad  on  the  farm  and  never  even  got  a  small  party.  Except  there  was  no  bad  brother,  it  was  just  the  two  of  them,  so  still  no  party,  although  she'd  get  her  party,  a  big  party,  in  Heaven,  and  was  sort  of  even  having  her  party  now,  on  earth,  and  when  she  saw  that  little  man  all  pee-stained  at  Rexall  Drug,  not  begging  but  just  say-  ing  to  every  person  who  went  in  that  he  or  she  was  looking  dapper,  she  knew  that  he  was  truly  the  least  of  her  broth-  ers.  The  world  was  a  story  Christ  was  telling  her.  And  when  she  told  the  pee-  man  at  the  Rexall  that  he  was  look-  ing  dapper  himself  and  he  said  loudly  that  she  was  too  ugly  to  f-,  she  had  only  thought  to  herself,  O.K.,  praise  God,  he's  only  saying  that  because  he's  in  pain,  and  she  had  smiled  with  the  lightest  light  in  her  eyes  that  she  could  get  by  wishing  it  there,  because  even  if  she  was  a  little  yugly  she  was  still  beautiful  in  Christ's  sight,  and  for  her  it  was  all  a  party,  a  little  party  before  a  bigger  party,  the  biggest,  but  what  about  Neil-Neil,  where  was  his  party?  She  would  do  what  she  could!  This  would  be  his  party,  one  tiny  install-  ment  on  the  huge  huge  party  he  de-  served,  her  brother,  her  pal  to  the  end,  the  only  loving  soul  she  had  yet  found  in  this  world.  The  bell  rang  and  she  threw  open  the  door,  and  there  was  Neil-Neil.   &quot;Welcome  home!&quot;  she  said  grandly,  and  bowed  at  the  waist,  and  the  sock  fell  off  her  shoulder.  ANIKY  had  walked  home  in  a  frenzy,  gazing  into  shopwindows,  know-  ing  that  someday  soon,  when  he  came  into  these  shops  with  his  sexy  wife,  he'd  simply  point  out  items  with  his  riding  crop  and  they  would  be  loaded  into  his  waiting  Benz,  although  come  to  think  of  it  why  a  riding  crop?  Who  used  a  riding  crop?  Did  you  use  a  riding  crop  on  the  Benz?  Ho,  man,  he  was  stoked!  He  wanted  a  Jag,  not  a  Benz!  Golden  statues  of  geese,  classyvases,  big  porcelain  frogs,  whatever,  when  his  ship  came  in  he'd  have  it  all,  because  when  he  was  stoked  nothing  could  stop  him.  If  Dad  could  see  him  now!  Walking  home  in  a  suit  from  a  seminar  at  the  freaking  Hyatt!  Poor  Dad,  not  that  he  was  bashing  Dad,  but  had  Dad  been  a  seeker?  Well,  no,  Dad  had  been  no  seeker,  life  had  beaten  Dad.  Dad  had  spent  every  evening  with  a  beer  on  the  divan,  under  a  comforter,  and  he  re-  membered  poor  Ma  in  her  Sunday  dress,  which  had  a  rip,  which  she'd  taped  because  she  couldn't  sew,  and  Dad  in  his  too  big  hat,  recently  fired  again,  and  all  of  them  on  the  way  to  church,  dragging  pasta  crowd  of  spick  hoods  on  the  corner,  and  one  spick  said  something  about  Ma's  boobs,  which  were  big,  but  all  of  Ma  was  big,  so  why  did  the  hood  have  to  say  something  about  her  big  boobs,  as  if  they  were  nice?  When  they  all  knew  they  weren't  nice,  they  were  just  a  big  woman's  boobs  in  a  too  tight  dress  on  a  rainy  Sunday  morn-  ing,  and  on  her  head  was  a  slit-open  bread  bag  to  keep  her  gray  hair  dry.  The  hood  said  what  he  said  because  one  look  at  Dad  told  him  he  could.  Dad,  with  his  hunched  shoulders  and  his  constant  blinking,  just  smirked  and  took  Ma's  arm  and  told  the  hood  that  a  comment  like  that  did  more  damage  to  the  insulter  than  to  the  insulted,  etc.  etc.  blahblah  blah.  Then  the  hood  made  a  sound  like  a  cow,  at  Ma,  and  Neil,  who  was  nine,  tried  to  break  away  and  takea  swing  at  the  hood  but  Ma  had  his  hand  and  wouldn't  turn  him  loose  and  secretly  he  was  glad,  because  he  was  scared,  and  then  was  ashamed  at  the  relief  he  felt  on  entering  the  dark  church,  where  the  thin  panicked  preacher,  who  was  losing  his  congregation,  exchanged  sly  Biblical  quotes  with  Dad  as  Winky  stood  beam-  ing  as  if  none  of  it  outside  had  hap-  pened,  the  lower  half  of  her  body  gone  psychedelic  in  the  stained-glass  light.  Oh,  man,  the  world  had  shit  on  Dad,  but  it  wasn't  going  to  shit  on  him.  No  way.  If  the  world  thought  he  was  going  to  live  in  a  neighborhood  where  spicks  insulted  his  wife's  boobs,  if  the  world  thought  he  was  going  to  make  his  fam-  ily  eat  bread  dragged  through  bacon  grease  while  calling  it  hobo's  delight,  the  world  was  just  wrong,  he  was  going  to  succeed,  like  the  men  described  in  &quot;Peo-  ple  of  Power,&quot;  who  had  gardens  bigger  than  entire  towns  and  owned  whole  ships  and  believed  in  power  and  power  only.  Were  thirty  horse-drawn  carts  needed  to  save  the  roses?  The  call  went  out  to  the  surrounding  towns  and  at  dusk  lanterns  from  the  carts  could  be  seen  approach-  ing  on  the  rocky  bumpy  roads.  Was  a  serving  girl  found  attractive?  Her  hus-  band  was  sent  away  to  war.  Those  guys  knew  how  to  find  and  occupy  their  Power  Places,  and  he  did,too,  like  when  he  sometimes  had  tosolder  a  thousand  triangular  things  in  a  night  to  make  the  rent,  and  drink  coffee  till  dawn  and  crank  WMDX  full  blast  to  stay  psyched.  On  those  nights,  when  Winky  came  up  making  small  talk,  he  boldly  waved  her  away,  and  when  he  waved  her  away,  away  she  went,  because  shesensed  in  his  body  language  that  he  was  king,  that  what  he  was  doing  was  essential,  and  when  she  went  away  he  felt  good,  he  felt  strong,  and  he  soldered  faster,  which  was  the  phenomenon  the  book  called  -THOMAS  LUX  the  Power  Boost,  and  the  book  said  that  Major  Successes  tended  to  be  people  who  could  string  together  Power  Boost  after  Power  Boost,  which  was  accom-  plished  by  doing  exactly  what  you  felt  like  at  any  given  time,  with  certainty  and  joy,  which  was  what,  he  realized,  he  was  about  to  do,  by  kicking  out  Winky!  Now  was  the  time  for  him  to  win!  Why  the  heck  couldn't  he  cook  his  spe-  cial  meatballs  for  Beverly  and  afterward  make  love  to  her  on  the  couch  and  tell  her  his  dreams  and  plans  and  see  if  she  was  the  one  meant  to  be  his  life's  helpmate,  like  Mrs.  Thomas  Alva  Edi-  son,  who  had  once  stayed  up  all  night  applying  labels  toa  shipmentof  chemicals  essen-  tial  for  the  next  day's  work?  But  no.  Bev  was  dating  some-  one  else  now,  some  kind  of  guard  at  the  mall,  and  he  remembered  the  meatball  dinner,  Winky's  pink  face  periodically  thrusting  into  the  steam  from  the  broc-  coli  as  she  trotted  outher  usualB.S.  on  stigmata  and  the  amount  of  time  nec-  essary  for  an  actual  physical  body  to  rot.  No  wonder  her  roommates  had  kicked  her  out,  calling  him  in  secret,  no  won-  der  her  preacher  had  demanded  she  stop  volunteering  so  much-another  secret  call,  people  had  apparently  been  quitting  the  church  because  of  her.  She  was  a     TI  nut,  a  real  energy  sink,  it  had  been  a  huge  mistake  inviting  her  to  live  with  him  and  now  she  simply  had  to  go.  It  was  sad,  yes,  a  little  sad,  but  if  great-  ness  were  easy  everyone  would  bedoing  it.  Yes,  she'd  been  a  cute  kid  and,  yes,  they'd  shared  some  nice  moments,  yes  yes  yes,yes,  she'd  brought  him  crackers  and  his  little  radio  that  time  he'd  hid  un-  der  the  steps  for  nine  straight  hours  af-  ter  Dad  started  weeping  during  dinner,  and,  yes,  he  remembered  the  scared  look  in  her  eyes  when  she'd  come  running  up  to  him  after  taking  a  fishhook  in  the  temple  while  fishing  with  the  big  boys,  and,  yes,  he'd  carried  her  home  as  the  big  boys  cackled,  yes,  it  was  sad  that  she  sang  so  badand  thought  it  was  good  and  sad  that  her  panties  were  huge  now  when  he  found  them  in  the  wash  but  like  it  said  in  the  book  a  person  couldn't  throw  him-  self  across  someone  else's  funeral  pyre  without  getting  pretty  God-damned  hot.  She  had  his  key  so  he  rang  the  bell.  She  appeared  at  the  door,  looking  crazy  as  ever.  &quot;Welcome  home!&quot;  she  said,  and  bowed  at  the  waist,  and  a  sock  fell  off  her  shoulder,  and  as  she  bent  to  pick  it  up  she  banged  her  head  against  the  storm  window,  the  poor  dorky  thing.  Oh  shit,  oh  shit,  he  was  weakening,  he  could  feel  it,  the  speech  he'd  practiced  on  the  way  home  seemed  now  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  girl  who  stood  wet-eyed  in  the  doorway,  rubbing  her  bald  spot.  He  wasn't  powerful,  he  wasn't  great,  he  was  just  the  same  as  everybody  else,  less  than  everybody  else,  other  peo-  ple  got  married  and  had  real  jobs,  other  people  didn't  live  with  their  fat  clinging  sisters,  he  was  a  loser  who  would  keep  losing  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  be-  cause  he'd  never  gotten  a  break,  he'd  been  cursed  with  a  bad  Dad  and  a  bad  Ma  and  a  bad  sis-  ter,  and  was  too  weak  to  change,  too  weak  to  make  a  new  start,  and  as  he  pushed  by  her  into  the  tea-smelling  house  the  years  ahead  stretched  out  bleak  and  joyless  in  his  imagination  and  his  chest  went  suddenly  dense  with  rage.  &quot;Neil-Neil,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Is  something  wrong?&quot;  And  he  wanted  to  smack  her,  insult  her,  say  something  to  wake  her  up,  but  onlykept  moving  toward  his  room,  call-  ing  her  terrible  names  under  his  breath. 