 Rodents  infiltrated  my  place  at  the  first  hard  frost  of  the  fall.  I  had  a  minor  premonition  that  this  would  happen,  and  then,  lo,  it  hap-  pened.  For  a  couple  of  days  it  was  in  the  back  of  my  mind,  in  the  twilight  area  where  minor  worries  flourish-no  big  alarm  bell  rang,  because  most  of  the  stuff  you  worry  about  never  comes  to  pass.  But  then  came  the  evidence,  the  irrefutable  fact  that  not  only  did  said  perpetrators  (previously  unknown  to  me)  claw  and  chew  through  a  box  of  Wheat  Thins,  they  defecated  at  the  scene  of  the  crime,  leav-  ing  sizable  pellets  behind.  Apparently  &quot;Don't  shit  where  you  eat&quot;  isn't  in  the  ro-  dent  codebook.  At  first,  I  was  ina  state  of  denial.  My  place  is  sealed  as  tight  as  a  drum.  How  could  they  get  in?  Also,  I  was  thinking,  I  don't  need  this  now.  I  really  do  not  need  this.  I  was  facing  problems  at  work.  There  wererumors  of  a  cutback  at  the  plant.  In  spite  of  my  seniority-I've  been  an  engineer  for  ten  years-I  knew  I  was  high  on  the  shit  list.  I'm  a  convenient  target.  Why?  Because  I'm  very  short  in  stature.  Five  feet  nothing.  And  I  have  a  slight  spinal  deformity-a  hump.  No  matter  what  goes  wrong  at  that  hellhole,  I  get  blamed.  &quot;Anson,  the  midget,  did  it.&quot;  A  computer  goes  down,  blueprints  get  lost,  milk  sours  in  the  lunchroom  refrig-  erator:  &quot;The  midget  did  it!&quot;  So  at  first  I  buried  my  head  in  the  sand.  I  had  woken  up  late  that  day,  no  morning  coffee,  and  my  feet  had  barely  hit  the  floor  when  I  saw  the  chewed-to-shit  Wheat  Thins  box.  What  a  sight!  It  looked  as  if  a  wolverine  had  gone  through  it.  There  I  was,  standing  in  my  pajamas  in  a  state  of  complete  disbelief.  This  was  no  time  to  conduct  a  full-scale  pest  investi-  gation.  I  was  late  for  work.     BY  THOM  JONES  That  night  in  bed,  when  fears  are  greatly  magnified,  not  only  was  I  worried  about  my  suck-ass  job,  I  began  to  think  that  the  intruder  might  be  a  big  black  rat  with  an  appetite  for  human  flesh.  Juras-  sic.  The  Wheat  Thins  box  looked  like  it  had  been  blasted  by  a  shotgun  and,  as  I  said,  the  waste  pellets  were  mighty  big.  For  all  I  knew  there  could  be  a  whole  pack  of  vermin  running  around  my  place  bearing  disease  and  pestilence.  Off  a  ship  from  Africa  or  something.  Can  you  get  rabies  from  proximity?  That's  what  I  was  thinking.  About  3  [REDACTED]  a  miasma  of  moldy  rodential  air  came  wafting  into  my  bedroom.  I  hadn't  noticed  at  before.  Somewhere,  unseen,  these  vermin  were  stirring  about,  revved  up  into  a  state  of  high  activity,  giving  off  odoriferous  secretions.  The  next  morning  I  was  up  early  tosee  what  dirty  work  had  occurred  during  the  night.  I  entered  the  kitchen  with  a  heavy  brogan  shoe  in  my  hand,  and  it  was  just  as  I  thought:  they  had  been  at  it  again.  Bolder  than  ever!  I  had  thrown  out  the  contaminated  food,  and  closed  the  cup-  board  tight,  but-hey!-no  problem:  the  culprits  had  gone  to  the  breadbox!  Itslid  was  ajar,  a  good  inch  and  a  half.  Had  I  closed  it?  You'd  think  you'd  re-  member  a  pertinent  detail  like  that,  es-  pecially  if  you're  in  a  batten-down-the-  hatches  mentality.  And  what  if  I  ped  closed  the  breadbox?  This  rodent  must  be  very  strong.  This  rodent  might  very  well  be  a  rat-a  rat  that  bench-pressed  No.  3  vegetablecans  and  probably  played  tackle  for  the  local  rathall  team.  Black  Bart,  the  [REDACTED]  power  rat.  Fangola  from  Borneo.  On  no  sleep,  work  that  morning  was  an  ongoing  hell.  I  had  to  sneak  out  to  my  car  at  lunch  and  catcha  nap,  but  I  woke  up  three  hours  later  not  in  the  least  re-  freshed:  it  wasn't  a  nap,  it  was  a  damn  coma.  The  boss  called  me  in:  &quot;Yeah  yeah,  ying  ying,  ya  ya,  where  in  the  pe//  have  you  been?&quot;  Put  the  fear  of  God  in  me.  I  stayed  late  working  on  the  annual  report,  which  made  no  sense  to  me  anymore.  I  was  just  sitting  there,  &quot;pretending,&quot;  which  is  a  lot  harder  than  actually  working.  You  could  chop  logs  all  day,  stack  thirty  cords  of  wood,  and  not  get  as  tired.  When  the  boss  bagged  out,  I  waited  five  minutes  and  then  left.  My  back  was  killing  me.  The  hump  veers  toward  my  left  shoulder.  It  was  all  hot  and  knotted  up  like  an  angry  fist.  Just  complete  agony.  I  stopped  at  the  supermarket  for  some  Advil  and  asked  a  stocker  where  the  mousetraps  were.  Evidently,  there'd  been  a  run  on  rodent  traps.  &quot;Cold  weather,&quot;  he  said.  I  said,  &quot;You  haven't  been  selling  rat  traps?&quot;  &quot;Rat  traps,  yeah,  sold  a  few,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  them  out.  They  were  huge  rect-  angular  slabs  of  pinewood  with  monstrous  springs  and  rectangular  clap  bars  made  of  heavy-gauge  metal.  Big  enough  to  snag  a  Shetlandpony.  &quot;Whoa,  man!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  hope  I  don't  need  one  of  those.&quot;  &quot;Where  doyou  live?&quot;  he  asked  me,  and  I  told  him  the  neighborhood  and  he  said  no  doubt  my  problem  was  mice.  Rats  don't  frequent  upscale  places,  he  said.  They  go  for  the  shitholes  where  people  leave  garbage  around.  He  couldn't  guar-  antee  it  but  he  was  ninety  per  cent  sure.  Then  he  left  me  alone  in  the  aisle  to  in-  spect  the  merchandise.  I  chided  myself  for  being  melodramatic.  No  rats,  just  some  mice.  And  others  were  having  the  same  problem.  I  was  reassured.  I  was  fortunate  to  be  ableto  get  any  traps  at  all.  There  were  only  five  left  and  I  bought  all  five.  I  thought  of  using  poison,  going  for  complete  and  certain  eradication,  but  I  wanted  tosee  the  corpses.  Your  mouse  poisoner  is  like  a  B-52  bomber  pilot  fly-  ing  miles  above  a  war  zone-the  blood-  less  battle.  That's  cool,  but  sometimes  you  hear  of  poisoned  mice  dying  in  parts  of  &amp;  the  house  that  are  inaccessible  to  the    homeowner  and  giving  offa  horrible  &amp;  smell.  People  start  yanking  off  dry-  wall  panels  to  get  to  the  smelly  things,  knocking  down  chimneys,  tearing  up  the  foundation.  Vacor,  for  instance,  a  rodenticide  that  looks  like  cornmeal,  destroys  the  beta  cells  of  the  pancreas,  causing  instant  diabetes,  followed  by  chest  pain,  impaired  intellect,  coma,  and  finally  death.  A  diabetic  mouse  with  severe  hyperglycemia  will  develop  an  incredible  thirst  and  head  outside  to  look  for  water-you  don't  have  to  tear  your  house  apart  tracking  down  odors.  Strych-  nine  is  another  possibility.  An  overdose  of  strychnine  destroys  the  nerves  and  causes  convulsions.  The  sick  rodent  cannot  bear  noise  or  bright  light.  It  dies  a  prolonged,  agonizing  death  of  utter  torment.  That  kind  of  mouse  wouldn't  opt  for  the  hustle  and  bustle  of  the  outdoors.  That's  a  hide-  in-the-drywall  mouse.  All  in  all,  the  trap  is  more  humane.  But  I  was  so  angry  at  the  inconvenience  I  had  been  through-disturbed  sleep,  fright,  the  loss  of  snack  foods-that  the  thought  of  a  mouse  writhing  in  pain  out  in  a  field  somewhere  did  not  bother  my  conscience  in  the  slightest.  The  opposite  was  the  case.  It  gave  me  satisfaction.  Die,  suckah!  I  SET  three  of  the  traps  in  the  kitchen  using  peanut  butter  as  bait.I  put  an-  other  in  the  bedroom  andone  behind  the  living-room  couch.  That  night,  moments  after  I  turned  off  the  lights,  I  heard  one  of  the  kitchen  traps  go  off.  Wap!  Man,  I  almost  hit  the  ceiling.  I  wasn't  sure  if  I  heard  a  shriek  or  not.  It  all  happened  so  fast.  In  the  blink  ofan  eye,  an  execution.  I'm  embarrassed  to  admit  that  I  was  a  little  afraid  to  confront  the  consequences.  But  what  could  I  do?  I  picked  up  my  heavy  shoe  and  went  out.  The  victim  was  a  gray  mouse  with  broad,  powerful  shoul-  ders,  prickly  chin  whiskers,  red  beady  eyes,  and  ashort  stumpy  tail.  Its  mouth  was  open,  exposing  a  crimsontongue  and  sharp  yellow  teeth.  Ahggh!  The  trap  had  snapped  its  neck.  I  picked  up  the  trap  and  quickly  tossed  it  in  the  garbage.  How  that  mouse  had  so  totally  destroyedthe  Wheat  Thins  was  beyond  me,  but  such  are  the  mysteries  of  life.  There,  I'm  thinking.  Done!  Half  an  hour  later  I  was  sawing  logs.  In  the  morning  I  got  up  and  went  to  the  kitchen  to  make  coffee  and  I  saw  an-  other  mouse,  this  one  still  alive,  with  one  paw  caught  in  a  trap.  It  was  trying  to  drag-ass  out  of  there.  I  got  my  work  gloves  out  of  the  garage  and  picked  up  the  trap,  the  mouse  hanging  down  from  it,  wriggling.  I  put  the  mouse  in  a  coffee  can,  and  then-I  don't  know  what  made  me  do  it,  maybe  because  Christmas  was  coming-I  punched  some  holes  in  it  for  air.  The  mouse's  foot  was  smashed,  but  otherwise  it  was  O.K.  I  set  the  can  in  the  garage  and  went  off  to  work.  I  was  tired  again,  with  moderate-to-  severe  hunch  pains.  Except  for  short-lived  bursts  of  activity  when  my  boss  passed  by  with  a  scowl  on  his  repugnant  face,  all  I  could  do  was  sit  at  my  desk  and  &quot;pretend&quot;  all  day.  Even  though  I'd  got  some  sleep,  I  was  thrashed,  body  and  soul.  When  I  got  home  I  threw  some  wood  shavings  into  an  old  aquarium  and  put  the  mouse  in  there.  If  it  was  in  pain,  I  couldn't  tell.  I  gave  it  a  little  dish  of  water  and  some  cornflakes.  The  thing  was  this:I  couldn't  stand  having  an  invisible  invader  prowling  around  in  my  house  at  will,  but  with  the  animal  caged  and  me  in  full  con-  trol,  I  could  tolerate  it.  I  mean  the  mouse  was  just  trying  to  get  by  like  the  rest  of  us.  I  named  him  Al.  After  a  few  days,  Al's  foot  turned  black  and  fell  of.  He  wouldn't  eat  for  a  while.  I  think  he  had  a  fever.  A  close  call  with  death.  I  put  out  some  whole-wheat  bread  with  peanut  butter  on  it.  He  loved  that.  He  was  going  to  weather  the  crisis.  He  started  to  gain  weight.  I  found  a  hamster  wheel  at  a  garage  sale  and  the  guy  just  gave  it  to  me  to  get  rid  of  it.  That's  when  Al  began  his  rehab  ther-  apy.  Without  his  foot,  he  got  by  hobbling,  but  his  whole  left  shoulder  was  weak.  On  the  wheel,  he  struggled  and  became  dis-  oriented.  To  encourage  him,  I  put  his  fa-  vorite  treat,  a  Hershey's  chocolate  square,  in  a  little  box  in  front  of  the  wheel.  [REDACTED]  and  carrot.  Pretty  soon  Al  was  running  his  ass  and  lost  all  the  weight  from  his  peanut-butter  days  of  convalescence.  With  treats  to  motivate  him,  he'd  put  in  five  hours  a  night  on  thewheel.  One  night,  just  as  I  was  getting  him  his  Hershey's  square,  he  hopped  into  my  palm  and  let  me  hand-feed  him.  It  was  a  momentous  transition.  Suddenly  this  little  wild  animal  was  on  the  road  to  domesti-  cation.  He  trusted  me.  I  felt  like  I  was  in  tune  with  the  universe.  But  not  for  long.  HE  next  day  at  work,  the  boss  stuck  his  ugly  face  inches  from  my  own.  &quot;You're  terminated,  Anson.  Clean  out  your  desk!  You  have  one  hour.&quot;  The  heartless  bastard.  I'd  known  it  was  ral  coming,  but  I  was  devastated  just  the  same.  He  couldn't  wait  until  after  Christ-  mas.  I  immediately  drove  to  the  unem-  ployment  office.  Filled  out  the  forms.  Stood  around  and  waited.  Geez,  what  a  seedy  stink-ass  joint.  If  you're  an  engineer,  a  job  in  these  times  is  the  hardest  thing  in  the  world  to  find.  There  are  thousands  of  engineers.  I  put  together  a  résumé  and  scanned  the  want  ads.  There  was  nothing.  One  of  the  no-jobs  at  the  unemployment  office  told  me  that  nobody  hires  during  the  Christmas  season,  so  just  chill  out.  At  night  I  watched  TV.  It  was  me  and  Al,  with  him  crawling  up  my  arm  and  on  top  of  my  head  and  whatnot.  Once  in  a  whileout  slipped  a  mouse  pellet  but  what  are  you  going  to  do?  Al  is  my  friend,  so  it  wasno  biggie.  I  wondered  if  he  missed  his  life  in  the  wild.  I  wondered  if  he  was  bored.  If  I  let  him  go  in  the  spring,  with  no  foot,  what  would  happen?  One  night  after  a  futile  and  discourag-  ing  dayof  handing  out  résumés,  I  popped  over  to  the  pet  shop  and  bought  a  com-  panion  for  Al.  A  pet  mouse  cost  a  dollar  and  eighty-nine  cents.  I  got  a  female  and  named  her  Angela.  I  put  her  in  with  Al  and  they  sniffed  each  other  out  for  a  bit,  but  when  I  turned  my  back  they  started  fighting.  Angela  was  kicking  ass.  She  bit  the  piss  out  of  Al  andhe  was  left  bleed-  ing  all  over,  especially  from  his  stub.  I  broke  up  the  fight,  stuck  her  in  the  coffee  can,  and  put  her  in  the  dark  garage  for  punishment.  Then  I  put  hydrogen  perox-  ide  on  AJ's  wounds.  If  it  wasn't  for  the  in-  credible  cardiovascular  reserve  he'd  built  up  running  the  wheel,  I  think  she  would  have  killed  him.  I  took  to  hand-feeding  Al  again-I  had  to-and  he  eventually  came  around.  He  seemed  to  like  the  mouse  chow  I  got  him.  I  figure  that  animals  have  body  wisdom  and  willeat  the  right  thing  if  you  provide  it  for  them.  Pretty  soon  Al  was  on  the  wheel  again,  and  we  were  watching  TV  together  at  night,  and  ev-  erything  was  just  hunky.  He  padded  around  on  my  scalp  with  his  three  little  paws,  up  and  down  my  arm,  with  no  fear  at  all.  It  was  like  we'd  been  pals  in  some  previous  lifetime.  Bosom  buddies.  I  fashioned  a  divider  panel  for  the  aquarium  and  took  Angela  out  of  the  punishment  can.  But  I  was  still  hating  her.  I  gave  her  nothing  but  peanut  butter.  I  denied  her  access  to  the  exercise  wheel.  And  in  a  couple  of  weeks  she  was  a  dis-  T2  gusting  tub  of  lard.  Meanwhile,  Al,  on  his  good  diet,  exercise  regime,  and  nightly  entertainment,  was  the  very  picture  of  health.  Angela  was  practically  eating  her  body  weight  in  peanut  butter  every  day.  She  ballooned  up.  I  started  weighing  her  on  a  postal  scale,  and  one  time  she  bit  me.  She  didn't  break  the  skin,  but  after  the  in-  fraction  it  was  three  more  days  in  the  punishment  can.  BY  now  I  had  been  to  every  fucking  engineering  firm  in  the  city.  No-  body  was  hiring.  Ifyou'rea  senior  en-  gineer,  forget  it.  They  hire  a  guy  out  of  college,  pay  him  a  substan-  dard  salary,  and  get  him  to  do  the  work  of  ten  people.  I  refor-  mulated  my  résumé  and  started  looking  for  a  job  as  a  technician.  Angela  was  still  eating  peanut  butter  by  the  tablespoon.  One  day  I  came  home  and  she  was  lying  on  her  back  with  four  feet  in  the  air,  stiff.  Heart  attack.  In  just  six  weeks'  time.  I  enjoy  peanut  butter  myself.  I  had  been  carrying  peanut-  butter  sandwiches  in  my  briefcase  as  I  canvassed  the  city  looking  for  work.  I  switched  to  lowfat  turkey.  It  costs  a  for-  tune  and,  hungerwise,  it  doesn't  satisfy,  but  I  got  to  thinking  of  all  the  stuff  I  had  eaten  in  my  life,  the  whole  pile  of  it.  In  peanut  butter  alone,  there  would  be  a  warehouse.  Cigarettes?  Truck  trailers  full.  After  what  I'd  seen  happen  to  An-  gela  in  six  weeks,  I  felt  lucky  to  be  alive.  I  squared  my  diet  away.  I  got  some  Just  for  Men  and  colored  my  hair  jet-black.  I  began  to  figure  that  my  age  was  another  handicap.  But  then  one  of  the  no-jobs  at  unemployment  asked  me  if  I'd  lost  my  mind.  &quot;Anson,  you  look  like  Bela  Lugosi!&quot;  Another  said,  &quot;Man,  that's  a  dye  job  you  can  spot  a  mile  away.&quot;  Some  skaters  on  the  street  asked  me  if  I  was  the  singer  Roy  Orbison.  Maybe  they  said  this  because  I  was  wear-  ing  a  pair  of  shades,  or  maybe  they  were  just  dicking  with  me.  I  said,  &quot;No,  man,  I'm  Junior  fuckin'  Walker.&quot;  When  I  got  home  and  checked  my-  self  out  in  the  mirror,  I  saw  that  the  no-  jobs  were  right  about  my  hair.  It  was  too  dark  and  it  made  my  skin  look  pale.  It  was  almost  green.  I  looked  like  an  under-  taker.  Plus,  I'd  lost  weight,  and  my  clothes  were  too  big.  Overnight,  I  had  metamorphosed  from  a  Stage  One  no-  job  to  a  Stage  Three.  Up  all  night  with  pain,  I  finally  dropped  off  and  didn't  get  up  till  four  in  the  afternoon.  Too  late  to  go  out.  I  didn't  shave.  I  was  thinking,  What's  the  point  of  looking?  They  don't  want  to  hire  you.  Capitalism  sucks.  The  big  companies  just  want  to  get  rich.  I  got  to  hating  everybody.  DROVE  over  to  the  pet  store  and  bought  two  dozen  mice  and  a  sepa-  rate  wire  cage  for  each.  You  read  stuff  in  medical  reports  about  how  a  certain  drug  or  vitamin  did  something  in  some  study  but  it  will  be  five  years  before  the  general  public  can  get  it.  Or  you  read  that  something  has  pro-  duced  miraculous  results  in  chickens  but  they  haven't  tried  it  on  humans  yet.  I'm  the  kind  that  figures,  hell,  if  it  works  on  a  chicken  it's  going  to  work  on  everybody.  I  mean  if  some  guy  spots  mold  on  bread  and  turns  it  into  penicillin,  why  not  me?  If  I  can't  get  a  job,  maybe  I'll  just  go  out  and  win  the  Nobel  Prize.  I  put  the  mice  on  a  variety  of  diets  and  subjected  them  to  various  stresses.  I  kept  a  control  group  and  fed  its  members  the  same  mouse  chow  I  fed  Al.  Other  mice-eating  a  diet  similiar  to  my  own,  drinking  a  proportionate  amount  of  coffee,  and  keeping  the  same  hours-  were  dead  in  five  weeks.  Challenge,  a  momentary  adaptation  to  stress,  then  ex-  haustion  and  death.  I  accepted  the  results  with  equanimity.  I  knew  what  was  in  the  cards  for  me;  once  again  I  had  evidence.  Maybe  I  was  lucky  to  have  been  canned.  What  I  needed  now  was  a  plan:  I  wasn't  going  to  be  a  victim  anymore.  At  [REDACTED]  I  took  off  my  white  lab  coat,  washed  my  hands,  and  called  up  my  ex-  boss.  Brrringgg!  Ding-a-ling!  Brrringgg!  When  he  answered,  I  hung  up!  Ah,  ha,  ha,  shit!  I  then  had  a  snack  and  about  twenty  minutes  later-just  when  he'd  fallen  back  to  sleep-I  called  again.  Ha,  ha,  ha,  fuck!  I  pictured  him  lying  there,  seething.  I  put  another  batch  of  mice  on  a  re-  gime  mimicking  my  old  schedule,  but  I  fortified  their  diets  with  vitamins.  They  died  in  just  wunder  five  weeks,  con-  firming  something  I  had  always  sus-  pected:  vitamins,  especially  the  kind  that  have  a  strong  smell,  not  only  make  you  feel  bad  but  can  hasten  your  demise!  The  result  held  even  for  the  mice  that  had  the  antioxidants  cocktail:  flavonoids,  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  11,  1997  soy,  red-wine  extract,  beta  carotene,  etc.  To  some  mice  I  gave  huge  amounts  of  coffee.  Coffee  mice  became  very  ag-  gressive  and  would  often  bite  me.  For  each  attempted  bite,  it  was  no  coffee  and  three  days  in  a  punishment  can.  It  skewed  the  validity  of  the  experiments,  but  I  already  suspected  the  ultimate  outcome.  They  say  coffee  is  pretty  much  harm-  less,  but  after  studying  a  coffee  mouse's  brains  at  autopsy  I  calculated  otherwise.  Shrunken  thymus  glands,  aswelling  in  the  cranial  cavity,  and  a  shrivelling  of  the  adrenal  glands.  They  could  run  the  most  complicated  labyrinths  I  constructed,  but  they  were  burning  it  at  both  ends.  NE  night  I  called  my  ex-boss  and  he  fucking  made  me.  He  said  he  got  Caller  LD.  and  knew  it  was  me  on  the  line.  He  threatened  to  turn  me  into  the  police.I  didn't  say  boo,  man,  I  just  hung  up.  I  worried  until  dawn.  I  could  hear  my  heart  thumping  in  my  chest.  Was  what  I'd  done  a  jailable  offense?  So  much  for  the  job  recommendation.  And  then,  lo,  one  of  my  hundreds  of  résumés  bore  fruit!  I  got  a  call  from  a  large  electronics  firm,  went  in,  and  took  some  gruelling  tests  involving  math,  cal-  culus,  even  physics.  I  was  interrogated  by  a  panel  of  hard-ass  guys  with  starched  white  shirts  and  stern  faces.  At  the  con-  clusion,  they  said  I  was  one  of  fifteen  people  being  considered.  Two  hundred  applicants  had  already  been  rejected.  They  told  me  that  employees  were  sub-  ject  to  random  drug  tests.  They  said  they  would  do  a  background  check.  Then  they'd  call  me.  THE  hardiest  of  my  mice  turned  out  to  be  the  swimmers  and  walkers.  The  walkers  were  put  on  exercise  wheels  equippedwith  speed  governors  and  forced  to  march  at  a  nine-m.p.h.  pace  eight  hours  a  day.  Along  the  bottoms  of  their  cages  were  metal  grids  wired  to  give  them  an  electric  shock  if  they  de-  cided  to  hop  off  the  wheel  and  shirk  their  duty.  A  few  rebelled,  but  the  re-  bellion  was  dealt  with  easily:  I  merely  dialled  up  the  electricity.  This  made  me  realize  the  folly  of  my  so-called  punish-  ment  cans.  A  nice  dark  spot  in  a  quiet  room  was  not  &quot;punishment.&quot;  True  pun-  ishment,  such  as  that  reserved  for  recidi-  vist  biters,  now  took  place  in  a  proper  punishment  room  with  hot  bright  lights  and  severe  jolts  of  electricity.  A  yoga  MOUSES  mouse  that  I  happened  to  take  a  dislike  to,  a  little  Hare  Krishna  crybaby  who  couldn't  handle  the  nine-m.p.h.  pace,  died  after  thirty-four  hours  of  continu-  ous  exercise.  The  shock  burns  on  its  feet,  tail,  and  stomach  were  secondary  to  car-  diac  arrest.  Hey!  I'm  sorry,  but  it's  sur-  vival  of  the  fittest.  My  tests  demonstrated  that  a  reasonable  amount  of  hard  physi-  cal  labor  each  day  produced  health  and  contentment.  Bodies  are  made  for  work,  not  idleness.  AN,  what  else  could  go  wrong?  I  was  standing  on  a  corner,  mind-  ing  my  own  business,  and  this  no-job  I  knew,  a  Stage  Three,  came  along  and  offered  to  buy  me  dinner  at  a  Greek  res-  taurant.  I  said  sure,  thinking  some  wind-  fall  had  come  his  way.  We  did  a  fair  amount  of  drinking  and  then  had  this  big  meal,  several  courses,  with  roundsof  ouzo  for  the  house.  Then  he  got  nervous  for  some  reason.  When  we  reached  the  register,  some  drastic  thought  passed  through  his  brain  like  a  dark  cloud.  He  said  to  me,  &quot;Have  you  got  any  money?&quot;  I  told  him  I  had  about  sixty  cents,  and  he  stood  there  for  a  moment.  He  looked  up,  down,  over  his  shoulder.  Suddenly  he  yelled  &quot;Run!&quot;  and  bolted.  I  was  standing  flat-footed.  A  couple  of  waiters  took  off  after  him.  So  did  the  cook,  with  a  fifteen-  inch  blade.  What  a  shocker!  Too  late,  I  ran  the  other  way,  and  the  older  waiters  started  after  me.  Six  long  blocks  they  chased  me.  The  no-job  gotaway.  Me,  I  was  arrested.  The  police  handcuffed  me,  shoved  me  into  a  patrol  car,  and  whipped  me  off  to  the  precinet  station  with  their  lights  flashing.  I  spent  the  weekend  in  jail  and  finally  arranged  bond  on  Monday  morning.  To  cap  things  off,  when  I  got  home  I  found  Al  in  his  aquarium  with  his  three  feet  in  the  air,  stone  dead.  I  won't  lie  to  you.  It  was  very  upsetting.  I  burst  into  tears.  The  lady  living  above  me  heard  my  racking  sobs  andknocked  on  the  door  to  see  if  I  was  O.K.  [ANNIBAL  was  a  well-exercised  glad-  fator  mouse.  He  had  a  piebald  coat,  white  and  tan.  I  fed  him  a  diet  of  meat,  vegetables,  and  grain.  I  gave  him  testos-  terone  injections  from  ground-up  mouse  testicles.  He  got  little  boils  at  the  injec-  173  tion  sites,  but  he  also  became  super-  muscular.  [REDACTED]  won  the  first  annual  Gladiator  Mouse  Championship,  killing  in  succession  two  swimmers,  two  walk-  ers,  a  coffee  mouse,  and  the  remaining  population  of  yoga  mice-seventeen  victims  in  all.  I  just  kept  throwing  them  in,  one  after  another,  getting  more  and  more  excited  by  the  ferociousness  of  the  battle.  I  felt  like  Caligula.  Oh,  man!  It  was  too  much.  [REDACTED]'s  capacity  for  work  and  his  resistance  to  the  usual  stressors,  includ-  ing  the  punishment  sessions,  exceeded  that  of  any  of  my  previous  specimens.  His  entire  torso  was  pure  muscle.  The  discipline  he  showed  on  the  wheel,  in  the  maze,  in  the  pool,  or  defending  his  life  in  the  gladiator  pit,  his  appetite  for  work,  and  his  willingness  to  meet  any  challenge  made  him  my  most  interesting  success.  I  knew  I  was  on  to  something  huge  if  only  there  was  some  way  to  dampen  his  mur-  derous  impulses,  his  relentless  aggres-  sion,  and  his  compulsive  sexuality.  To  be  able  to  harness  all  that  drive  and  latent  productivity.  What  a  challenge!  I  was  able  to  farm  more  testosterone,   and  I  injected  it  into  female  mice.  The  results  were  dramatic-similiar  to  those  which  had  occurred  with  [REDACTED].  But  the  female  supermice,  with  a  natural  sup-  ply  of  estrogen,  were  more  tractable.  I  was  at  a  crossroads  in  my  research.  Was  this  the  answer?  A  female  named  Cyn-  thia  defeated  [REDACTED]  in  a  tooth-and-  nail  gladiator  bout.  Yet  she  stopped  short  of  killing  the  former  champion.  I  re-  moved  his  battered  body  from  the  little  arena  and  administered  adrenaline  to  his  wounds,  and  then  [REDACTED]  bit  me  on  the  quick  of  my  fingernail.  Yeow-  za!  What  happened  next  was  a  blur.  I  slammed  [REDACTED]  against  the  wall  like  Randy  Johnson  hurling  a  ninety-eight,  m.p.h.  fastball.  He  bounced  off  and  started  scrambling  around  on  the  floor.  I  gave  chase  and  stomped  him  to  death  in  my  stocking  feet.  What  an  ingrate!  And  after  all  I'd  done  for  him.  A  few  weeks  later  I  was  at  the  uni-  versity  veterinary  school,  checking  out  some  books  on  mouse  anatomy,  when  it  seemed  to  me  that  people  were  pur-  posefully  avoiding  me.  It  went  beyond  the  normal  thing  you  get  from  being  little.  Was  my  fly  open?  Did  I  have  some-  thing  in  my  nose?  As  I  walked  up  to  the  checkout  desk,  I  smelled  B.O.  I  put  two  and  two  together  and  realized  that  the  B.O.  was  coming  from  me.  I  tested  my  breath  by  licking  the  back  of  my  wrist  and  smelling  it.  It  was  awful.  How  far  had  I  sunk?  I  had  a  brief  panic  attack  outside  and  quickly  made  for  home.  After  I'd  had  a  long  bath,  the  episode  passed  off.  With  the  help  of  the  textbooks,  I  started  harvesting  other  mouse  hor-  mones,  even  though  the  organ  sys-  tems  were  often  so  tiny  I  felt  I  was  per-  forming  microsurgery.  It  was  also  frustrating.  The  boils  Cynthia  devel-  oped  from  growth-hormone  injections  turned  into  large  hard  lumps  that  eventually  proved  fatal:  upon  autopsy,  I  discovered  that  these  were  tumors.  Cyn-  thia's  liver  nourished  tumors  as  well.  One  by  one,  all  my  female  supermicedeveloped  the  same  symptoms.  Another  dead  end.  I  never  got  the  call  from  the  firm  that  interviewed  me.  A  month  had  passed,  so,  taking  the  bull  by  the  horns,  I  called  the  firm  and  said  that  I  had  enjoyed  our  meeting  and  would  be  grateful  for  a  job.  I  knew  it  was  too  late,  and  it  made  me   angry.  Just  because  I'm  five  feet  tall!  I  hinted  at  the  possibility  of  a  discrimina-  tion  suit.  A  vice-president  got  on  the  line  and  told  me  that  my  size  had  nothing  to  do  with  it.  They  were  impressed  by  my  qualifications.  I  had  the  job  in  the  bag,  but  my  former  boss  had  given  me  a  poor  recom-  mendation:  he  said  I  made  ha-  rassing  phone  calls  at  three  in  the  morning.  The  man  said  I  could  have  even  skated  on  that  charge,  but  he'd  noticed  an  item  in  the  police  blotter  involving  an  incident  at  a  Greek  restaurant.  I  was  so  shaken  by  this  disclosure  that  I  said  it  must  have  been  someone  else  with  the  same  name  as  mine.  A  transparent  lie.  Despondent,  I  went  out  and  bought  two  six-packs  of  -AUGUsST  KLEINZAHLER  beer.  The  next  day  I  couldn't  get  out  of  bed.  Nor  on  the  day  following.  I  got  a  violent,  three-day  hangover  and  vowed  never  to  drink  again.  Court.  Oh,  God!  The  very  thought  of  it.  I  went  over  to  the  restaurant  and  offered  full  restitution.  Nothing  doing,  they  said.  I  tried  to  explain  what  had  hap-  pened  but  they  made  furious  Greek  ges-  tures  at  me-God  knows  what  they  meant.  They  said,  &quot;See  you  in  court,  haffa  pint!  Broke-a-back.  Shorty  pants!&quot;  Well,  wait  a  minute,  I  said.  It  was  the  other  guy's  fault.  I  gave  them  the  whole  story.  They  said,  Tell  us  who  the  other  guy  is  and  we'll  drop  the  charge.  Actu-  ally,I  don't  know  the  guy.  I  mean  I  &quot;know&quot;  him,  but  he  told  so  many  lies  I  don't  know  if  up  is  down  with  him.  At  one  point  he  told  me  he  was  an  actor  and  had  been  engaged  to  Catherine  Deneuve.  He  was  a  smoothie,  and  handsome-I  half  believed  him.  I  threw  myself  on  the  mercy  of  the  court  and  got  reamed  with  a  two-hundred-  and-fifty-dollar  fine,  court  costs,  six  months'  probation,  and  a  hundred  hours  of  community  service.  Plus,  now  I've  got  a  record.  Also,  I  got  hit  for  a  hundredand  fourteen  in  unpaid  traffic  tickets.  After  court  I  lost  interest  in  the  mice  and  fell  into  a  deep,  Stage  Five  no-job  depression.  The  Nobel  Prize?  Screw  it.  I  went  to  a  clinic  and  got  a  prescription  for  antidepressants  and  anti-anxiety  drugs.  On  them,  all  I  wanted  to  do  was  sleep.  Twenty  hours?  No  problem.  It  was  a  pleasant  escape.  After  years  of  insomnia,  I  was  in  heaven.  But  the  medicine  made  me  fat.  Bloat  weight.  I  gained  back  all  that  I'd  lost.  Pretty  soon  I  couldn't  get  into  the  clothes  that  had  once  been  hanging  on  me.  I  got  a  huge  gut,  a  pair  of  thighs  like  twin  water  heaters,  and  a  fat  ass  that  stuck  out  like  a  clown's.  I'd  never  thought  that  I  could  sink  this  low.  I  resorted  to  wearing  sweatpants.  I  startedsetting  my  alarm  clock  for  late-afternoon  appointments  and  even  then  I  missed  about  half  of  them.  I  won-  dered  how  I  would  ever  reassimilate  myself  into  the  mainstream  of  Ameri-  can  life.  I  felt  so  lowand  so  bad  I  didn't  want  to  talk  to  anybody.  The  landlord  came  by:  people  were  complaining  about  a  smell.  I  didn't  want  him  tosee  my  mouse  lab.  The  way  things  were  going  it  would  have  been  a  federal  bust-  Dr.  Mengele  Nabbed  At  Last!  I  told  the  landlord  I  was  taking  care  of  a  pair  of  hamsters  for  a  friend,  don't  worry,  I'll  deal  with  the  smell.  He  said,  &quot;Man,  Anson,  you  gained  weight.&quot;  Well,  no  shit,  Sherlock!  I  cleaned  out  the  mouse  cages,  re-  placing  the  soiled  sawdust  with  fresh  cedar  shavings.  Then  it  occurred  to  me  to  put  the  mice  on  this  antidepressant  that  was  kicking  my  ass  so  bad.  When-  ever  I  tried  to  get  off  it,  I  got  this  full-  body  pulsar  buzz,  and  everything  be-  gan  to  vibrate  until  I  took  another  pill.  I  calibrated  doses  and  started  medi-  cating  the  mice.  Within  three  hours  all  of  them  were  out.  Dead?  I  couldn't  tell.  But  it  turned  out  no,  they  weren't  dead-they  were  in  comas.  I  wondered  if  that's  what  I  looked  like  at  night.  One  slept  for  two  days  and  didn't  change  positions:  frozen  in  one  posture.  I  put  another  on  the  punishment  wheel,  and  it  was  oblivious  to  the  shocks.  Blue  sparks  were  popping  off  its  paws  and  it  ignored  them.  I  mentioned  earlier  that  most  of  the  bad  stuff  you  worry  about  never  comes  to  pass.  But  sometimes,  I  was  now  discov-  ering,  it  does.  You  fall  into  a  kind  of  Ber-  muda  Triangle  of  hard-ass  reality.  How  long  was  this  going  to  go  on,  I  asked  myself?  I  finally  managed  to  get  off  the  drugs  by  taking  smaller  and  smaller  doses.  And  slowly  the  bloat  weight  came  off.  I  phoned  for  an  interview  for  a  technician's  job  at  a  factory  less  than  a  mile  from  my  building,  and  I  was  hired  that  very  day.  I  couldn't  believe  it.  The  job  was  a  piece  of  cake,  too.  I  went  in  and  read  the  paper  and  drank  coffee  for  an  hour  before  any-  one  got  ambitious.  There  were  numerous  breaks  and  good  camaraderie  all  the  way  around.  Even  so,  it  was  hard  to  get  through  a  day.  I  didn't  have  the  stamina.  Coming  back  from  Stage  Five  was  tough  business.  In  the  annals  of  no-jobdom,  it's  rare.  Almost  unheard  of.  I  had  pulled  off  a  big  one.  Pretty  soon  some  of  the  design  en-  gineers  were  hanging  out  with  me,  ask-  ing  my  advice  on  projects  and  so  on.  One  thing  led  to  another,  and  I  was  promoted  to  senior  engineer  and  mak-  ing  a  third  more  than  I  got  at  the  last  place.  It  was  easy  duty,  this  job.  I  got  into  the  work  and-zing!-the  time  75  just  flew.  I  never  had  a  job  I  Hiked  be-  fore.  I  didn't  think  such  a  thing  existed.  HE  mice,  as  they  died  off,  I  buried  in  little  toilet-paper  tubes.  They  have  a  life  expectancy  of  three  years.  I  didn't  replace  them.  Ashes  to  ashes,  dust  to  dust.  What  I  did  was  pretty  unconscio-  nable.  Absolute  power,  as  they  say.  I'm  not  proud  of  my  behavior.  I  had  been  liv-  ing  without  checks  and  balances.  The  crap  I  pulled  makes  me  think  of  what  the  space  invaders  will  do  to  us  if  they  con-  quer  the  world.  Make  slaves  of  us,  eat  us,  flay  us  alive  and  torture  us,  do  every  kind  of  sinister  thing  in  the  book.  There's  a  dark  side  to  intelligent  beings,  an  irratio-  nal  craving  for  war,  personal  defilement,  and  reckless  destruction,  even  if  we  know  better.  So  if  aliens  are  out  there  and  they  do  come  down  I  don't  expect  good  things.  Aliens  aren't  out  there  flying  around  on  errands  of  mercy  or  benevo-  lence.  To  them,  we're  just  so  much  pro-  tein.  We're  calories.  When  the  space  in-  vaders  take  over,  it's  the  end  of  the  human  era.  Before  that  happens,  I  want  to  get  in  a  few  good  times-travel  to  Ireland,  learn  how  to  dance,  take  tuba  lessons,  who  knows.  I've  learned  that  happiness  is  like  the  gold  in  the  Yukon  mines,  found  only  now  and  then,  as  it  were,  by  the  caprices  of  chance.  It  comes  rarely  in  chunks  or  boulders  but  in  the  tiniest  of  grains.  I'm  a  free-floater  now,  happy  to  take  what  little  comes  my  way.  A  grain  here,  a  grain  there.  What  more  can  you  ask  for?  