 b"T8  THE  IMPOSTOR  FICTION  When  he  died,  in  a  car  accident,  at  the  age  of  thirty-seven,  the  author  had  two  unpubli  she  d  stories  among  his  pape  rs.  One  (&quot;The  Sun,  the  Lady,  and  the  Gas  Stati  on&quot;)  h  as  been  lost:  the  other,  &quot;T  he  Impostor,&quot;  was  recently  rediscovered  by  the  editors  of  the  Library  of  [REDACTED].  to  live  like  one.&quot;  We  know  now  that  this  is  nonsense,  but  in  [REDACTED],  in  those  days,  we  didn't  know  it.  &quot;Artists  are  all  crazy.&quot;  This  is  another  statement  \xc2\xae  from  the  same  credo.  Of  course,  these  ideas  and  others  like  them  were  foisted  on  us  by  the  non-  artist,  but  we  didn't  realize  it  then.  We  came  to  the  business  of  be-  ing  an  artist  with  the  definitions  of  the  non-artist  and  took  libels  for  the  truth.  In  order  to  be  rec-  ognized  as  artists,  we  were  every-  thing  our  enemies  said  we  were.  &quot;All  artists  are  crazy.&quot;  Well,  one  of  the  easiest  things  to  be  is  &quot;crazy,&quot;  that  is  if  you  are  satis-  fied  with  the  uninformed  lay-  man's  definition  of  craziness.  To  be  really  crazy  is  quite  a  job.  You  have  to  have  a  great  deal  of  mental  and  physical  control  and  do  a  great  deal  of  scientific  reading.  We  didn't  have  the  control  or  want  to  do  the  reading;  nor  were  these  things  ne-  cessary.  Tourists  and  the  folks  back  home,  not  doctors,  were  on  our  jury.  As  time  went  on,  being  &quot;crazy&quot;  be-  came  more  difficult.  The  jury  gradually  changed.  Fellow-artists  began  to  sit  on  it.  This  wasn't  quite  as  bad  as  doctors  would  have  been,  but  it  was  pretty  bad.  Long  hair  and  a  rapt  look  wouldn't  get  you  to  first  base  anymore.  Even  dirt,  sandals,  and  &quot;nightmindness&quot;  weren't  enough.  You  had  to  be  original.  By  the  time  I  got  to  Montparnasse,  the  second  stage  was  well  advanced.  All  the  more  obvious  roles  had  been  dropped  and  the  less  obvious  ones  were  being  played  by  experts.  There  were  still  a  few  gents  with  long  hair,  but  no  one  took  them  seriously  and  they  were  never  invited  to  the  important  \xe2\x80\x9cIN  order  to  bean  artist  one  has   parties.  What  was  I  to  do?  How  wa  s  I  to  make  the  g  rade  ?  After  hid  in  g  in  my  ho  t  el  f  or  about  a  week,  not  da  r  ing  to  show  mys  elf  at  t  he  [REDACTED]  for  fe  a  r  of  maki  ng  a  bad  imp  r  ess  i  on,  I  hit  on  a  grea  t  i  dea  .  I  had  come  to  Par  i  s  f  rom  a  r  unn  er's  job  on  Wall  Street  a  nd  sti  l  l  had  the  clothes  I  had  worn  there.  In  s  te  a  d  of  buying  a  s  tra  n  ge  outfit  and  trying  to  cultivate  some  ne  w  idios  y  nc  r  as  i  es  ,  I  dec  ided  to  go  in  the  other  direction.  &quot;Craziness&quot;  through  the  exaggeration  of  normality  was  to  be  my  method.  In  this  land  of  soft  shirts,  worn  open  to  the  navel,  and  corduroy  trousers,  I  would  wear  hard  collars  and  carefully  pressed  suits  of  formal,  stylish  cut,  and  carry  clean  gloves  and  a  tightly  rolled  um-  brella.  I  would  have  precise,  ela-  borate  manners  and  exhibit  pro-  nounced  horror  at  the  slightest  public  breach  of  the  conventions.  I  was  a  big  success  right  from  ~  the  start.  When  I  entered  the  _._  [REDACTED],  beer  was  spilled  at  many  of  the  tables.  More  important,  I  was  asked  to  all  the  parties.  It  was  at  a  party  that  I  first  met  Beano  Walsh.  We  were  attracted  to  each  other  immediately,  because  each  of  us  realized  that  the  other  made  a  perfect  background  for  him.  We  were  the  absolute  maxi-  mum  in  contrast-you  know  the  rule,  black  against  white  sur-  rounded  by  gray.  Even  our  con-  -  versation  was  entirely  different.  I  talked  technically  about  field  trials,  the  use  of  the  'scope  in  rifle  shooting,  and  game  cycles,  while  Beano  talked  lyrically  about  an-  cient  [REDACTED],  the  Elgin  marbles,  and  our  mother  the  sea.  When  I  lifted  my  glass,  it  was  with  a  cheery  &quot;'Ware  all!&quot;  Beano's  toast  was  &quot;A  dead  whale  or  a  stove  boat!&quot;  or,  sometimes,  simply  &quot;Beauty!&quot;  Beano  was  a  stocky  young  man,  short  but  very  heavily  muscled.  He  had  arms  as  thick  as  thighs,  a  cedar-post  neck,  and  on  his  head  a  great,  living  fan  of  red  hair  that  was  like  some  strange,  monster  sea  urchin  in  erection.  Sum-  mer  and  winter,  he  caged  his  hair  in  a  derby.  It  was  worth  watching  him  do  it.  The  struggle  was  terrific.  He  always  won,  but  the  victories  were  costly.  No  matter  how  strongly  built  his  derby,  in  less  than  a  month  the  pressure  of  his  z  hair  ruined  its  shape.  The  rest  of  his  3  costume  consisted  of  a  basketball  shirt  2  with  the  insignia  of  the  Celtic  A.C.  on  Z  " b"the  front,  a  pair  of  army  riding  trousers,  leather  puttees,  and  sneakers.  He  was  supposed  to  be  a  sculptor.  In  those  days,  if  not  in  these,  art  critics,  like  [REDACTED]  directors,  insisted  on  typecasting.  As  a  sculptor,  Beano  was  cast  perfectly.  One  look  at  his  marvel-  lous  hands  proved  that;  Rodin  might  have  modelled  them.  Oscar  Hahn's  art  scouts  had  discov-  ered  him  on  a  coal  barge  in  556e6974656420537461746573and  had  arranged  for  him  to  be  sent  to  [REDACTED]  to  study.  When  they  dis-  covered  him,  he  hadn't  as  yet  made  any  sculpture,  but  according  to  the  stan-  dards  in  vogue  then-based,  perhaps,  on  Cellini's  autobiography  and  van  Gogh's  letters-he  certainly  looked  and  talked  as  though  he  might  produce  some  won-  derful  stuff.  I  had  known  Beano  about  a  month  when  I  was  locked  out  of  my  hotel  room  for  not  paying  the  rent.  My  mother  re-  fused  to  send  me  any  more  money.  She  wanted  me  to  come  home  and  had  sent  me  a  return  steamship  ticket,  which  I  was  trying  to  sell.  When  Beano  heard  of  my  troubles,  he  invited  me  to  move  into  his  studio.  His  studio  was  one  of  a  row  of  car-  barns,  back  of  the  Gare  Montparnasse  in  a  street  called  the  Impasse  Galliard.  It  was  sixty  feet  long,  forty  high,  and  forty  wide.  Whoever  had  converted  the  place  intoa  studio  had  spent  very  lit-  tle  money  on  the  job.  A  skylight  had  been  cut  in  the  domed  ceiling,  and  the  car  tracks  had  been  covered  with  cheap  pine  flooring.  That  was  all.  Only  our  kind  of  artist  would  have  lived  in  such  a  place.  The  winter  of  '25  was  a  very  cold  one.  Beano  had  an  old  potbellied  stove  that  we  kept  white-hot,  but  of  course  it  couldn't  begin  to  heat  that  enormous  room.  It  had  a  hard  time  taking  the  chill  off  the  corner  in  which  it  stood.  The  tenant  who  had  lived  in  the  place  before  Beano  had  left  behind  a  Belgian  girl.  She  was  a  gross,  blowsy  creature,  shaped  like  the  stove.  She  gave  offa  lot  of  animal  heat,  but  neither  of  us  wanted  to  go  near  her.  There  was  still  a  third  heat-  ing  agent-alcohol.  We  drank  it  con-  tinuously  and  so  managed  to  stay  alive.  Beano  worked,  but  the  girl  and  I  only  hugged  the  stove.  She  found  it  too  cold  in  the  streets  for  her  profession.  I  couldn't  punch  the  typewriter  without  taking  off  my  gloves  and  I  didn't  dare  take  them  off.  I  might  have  lost  a  finger.  But  Beano  worked,  or,  at  least,  tried  to.  I  watched  him  and  saw  at  once  that  something  was  wrong.  He  never  fin-  ished  anything.  He  spent  hours  on  a  head,  using  sheet  after  sheet  of  expen-  sive  drawing  paper,  without  making  a  single  sketch  that  satisfied  him.  He  blocked  in  the  features;  then,  with  a  sudden  curse,  he  ripped  the  paper  from  the  board  and  crumpled  it  viciously.  Ten  minutes  later,  he  tacked  up  another  sheet  and  began  again.  A  few  lines  this  time,  and  again  the  curses  and  the  fran-  tic  destruction.  I  watched  this  go  on  for  days.  It  was  pathetic.  Here  was  a  man  who  could  talk  a  whole  gallery  full  of  art  works  and  who  looked  like  a  genius  yet  couldn't  draw  worth  a  damn.  When  I  asked  him  why  he  didn't  go  to  art  school,  the  very  idea  seemed  to  make  him  frantic.  He  swore  at  me  for  five  minutes.  He  was  against  all  schools.  He  was  a  genius,  theequal  of  Michel-  angelo.  He  had  examined  the  draw-  ings  produced  in  the  schools  and  they  stank.  .  ..  Beano  really  had  a  great  deal  of  taste  and  knew  a  bad  drawing  when  he  saw  one.  Maybe  that's  why  he  never  finished  any  of  his  own.  One  day  he  came  home  with  a  crate  of  chisels,  a  dozen  mauls,  and  a  truck-  load  of  marble  blocks.  He  had  a  new  idea.  All  spontaneity  was  lost  when  a  sculptor  worked  from  a  drawing.  He  should  work  directly  in  stone.  He  must  see  the  living  thing  in  the  stone  and  strive  to  chop  it  free.  Whatever  it  was  he  saw  in  the  stone,  he  couldn't  chop  it  free.  He  stared  at  a  piece  of  marble  for  a  long  time,  then  suddenly  began  to  hack  at  it.  The  chisel  always  slipped  or  the  marble  cracked  before  he  had  taken  twenty  strokes.  He  then  would  go  berserk  and  attack  the  block  directly  with  the  maul  until  he  had  shattered  it  or  driven  it  right  through  the  flooring.  He  certainly  could  hit  a  terrific  wal-  lop.  A  little  later,  he  would  take  a  fresh  stone  and  begin  again.  But  the  end  was  always  the  same.  When  he  had  destroyed  the  whole  truckload  of  marble,  he  went  on  a  drunk.  I  tagged  along  to  keep  him  out  of  trouble.  One  night,  although  he  had  a  very  big  T9  load  on,  he  stepped  out  of  character  and  talked  sense.  It  was  the  first  time  he  had  ever  stepped  out  of  character  with  me.  He  said  that  he  was  worried  because  one  of  Mr.  Oscar  Hahn's  scouts  intended  to  visit  his  studio  soon  and  would  want  to  see  what  progress  he  had  made.  He  had  nothing  to  show  for  the  past  year,  not  a  single  drawing.  His  scholarship  would  surely  be  cancelled.  He  was  a  great  sculp-  tor  all  right,  but  heneeded  time  to  de-  velop,  to  find  himself.  If  they  took  away  his  scholarship,  he  would  have  to  go  back  to  the  coal  barges.  There  was  so  much  pathos  and  real,  quivering  fear  in  his  manner  that  I  started  to  put  my  arm  around  his  shoul-  ders,  but  before  I  could  finish  the  ges-  ture  he  stepped  back  into  character.  He  became  the  old  Beano  again,  the  mad  genius,  a  carver  of  heroes,  a  stark,  earthy  elemental  force.  &quot;Michael  Angelo,&quot;  he  roared,  as  though  he  were  calling  a  hog  of  that  name  on  the  [REDACTED]  prairies.  &quot;Michael  Angelo  .  .  .&quot;  Then  he  collapsed.  Several  of  the  more  friendly  waiters  helped  me  get  him  into  a  cab.  When  we  arrived  at  the  studio,  the  Belgian  helped  me  put  him  to  bed.  As  she  said  herself,  often,  it  was  her  m\xc3\xa9tier.  The  next  few  days  Beano  stayed  fairly  sober,  drinking  only  enough  to  keep  warm.  He  was  busy  buying  books,  anatomy  books.  When  he  had  accumu-  lated  about  fifty  volumes,  he  began  to  study  them.  Then  he  set  up  his  board  and  started  to  draw  once  more,  He  tried  to  copy  the  illustrations.  He  spent  al-  most  a  week  on  a  drawing  that  showed  how  a  head  is  built  up  in  layers  from  a  skull  and  another  week  on  one  that  showed  the  bone,  tendons,  and  muscles  ofan  arm.  But  it  was  no  use.  He  just  couldn't  draw  worth  a  damn.  I  was  lucky  to  be  out  when  he  finally  had  his  frenzy.  I  came  home  tofind  the  floor  littered  with  pages  and  big  holes  in  the  wall  plaster  where  the  books  had  struck.  The  Belgian  had  a  black  eye.  She  had  stopped  a  flying  book.  A  few  days  later,  Beano  received  a  note  from  Mr.  Simonsohn,  Mr.  Oscar  Hahn's  agent,  saying  that  he  would  be  in  the  following  month  to  examine  what  Beano  had  produced  in  the  way  of  art.  I  was  surprised  to  see  that  Beano  was  not  as  disturbed  as  he  had  been.  In  lieu  of  work,  he  told  me,  he  would  overwhelm  the  man  with  a  brilliant  " b"80  idea.  After  all,  they  had  given  him  the  scholarship  originally  because  of  an  idea  and  without  seeing  any  work.  I  was  dozing  near  the  stove  one  af-  ternoon  when  Beano  knocked  me  to  the  floor  with  a  wallop  between  the  shoul-  der  blades.  He  stood  over  me,  yelling,  &quot;I've  got  it!  I've  got  it!&quot;  &quot;You've  got  what?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;The  idea!&quot;  he  bellowed.  Without  letting  me  get  up  from  the  floor,  he  explained  the  &quot;idea.&quot;  While  he  talked,  I  kept  wondering  whether  Mr.  Simonsohn  would  swallow  his  nonsense.  I  knew  it  wasn't  entirely  impossible.  Beano  put  so  much  passion  into  his  ex-  position  and  used  so  many  brilliant  ges-  tures  that  he  almost  convinced  me.  He  would  have  made  a  great  actor.  Minus  the  passion  and  the  rest  of  the  fireworks,  his  &quot;idea&quot;  went  something  like  this:  He  had  discovered-or  decided-  that  all  the  anatomy  books  were  wrong,  because  they  used  a  man  only  five  feet  ten  inches  tall  for  their  charts.  Some  used  a  man  even  shorter.  They  should  have  used  a  man  six  feet  tall,  because  the  perfect  modern  man  is  six  feet  tall.  Since  the  anatomy  of  all  modern  sculpture  is  based  on  these  books,  all  modern  sculp-  ture  is  wrong.  Merely  enlarging  the  charts  two  inches  would  not  correct  the  error,  because  a  six-foot  man  is  not  only  taller  but  different.  A  new  anatomy  book  had  to  be  written,  and  not  until  he  had  written  it  could  he  even  think  of  drawing  or  sculpture.  1  thought  of  a  lot  of  objections  but  I  didn't  word  any  of  them.  He  was  in  no  mood  for  argument.  I  hoped  Mr.  Si-  monsohn  would  swallow  the  &quot;idea,&quot;  but  I  didn't  worry  about  it.  I  had  my  own  troubles.  I  was  very  busy  trying  to  swin-  dle  my  mother  out  of  some  money.  During  the  next  few  weeks,  I  saw  very  little  of  Beano.  He  left  the  car-  barn  very  early  in  the  morning,  before  I  got  up,  and  returned  late  at  night.  His  clothes  began  to  smell  strongly  of  form-  aldehyde.  Later  I  found  out  about  the  smell.  He  was  spending  all  his  time  in  the  morgue  on  the  lookout  for  a  perfect,  six-foot  man.  With  a  tape  and  a  pair  of  calipers,  he  measured  all  the  likely  bod-  ies  that  were  brought  in.  Some  influen-  tial  friends  of  his  had  obtained  permis-  sion  for  him  to  buy  a  corpse.  That  winter,  enormous  crowds  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  used  to  gather  before  dinner  at  the  [REDACTED]  every  evening  for  drinks.    Although  the  caf\xc3\xa9  was  very  large,  it  was  hard  to  get  a  table  inside,  and  the  late  arrivals  were  forced  to  sit  out  on  the  terrace,  huddled  overa  noxious  sala-  mander.  The  night  that  Beano  found  his  man,  I  was  sitting  there  trying  to  keep  warm  without  being  asphyxiated  by  the  coke  fumes.  With  me  at  the  table  were  three  other  expatriates,  artists  all.  While  we  were  sitting  there,  hawk-  ing  and  cusping  over  our  drinks,  a  cab  pulled  in  to  the  curb  close  by  us.  In  it  was  Beano.  He  stuck  his  head  out  the  window  and  shouted.  &quot;Eureka!&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  one  of  us  called  back.  &quot;Eureka!  I've  got  him!&quot;  &quot;You've  got  what?&quot;  &quot;The  six-foot  man.&quot;   &quot;Come  over  and  have  a  drink,&quot;  I  said  without  much  enthusiasm.  Beano  refused.  He  had  to  go  home  and  build  an  icebox  in  which  to  hang  the  stiff.  When  no  one  urgedhim,  how-  ever,  he  changed  his  mind  about  the  drink  and  came  over  to  the  table.  The  cab  remained  at  the  curb.  We  greeted  him  apathetically.  He  had  been  shouting  his  &quot;idea&quot;  at  us  for  weeks  and  we  were  sick  of  it.  After  all,it  is  only  natural  for  a  man's  own  poses  to  interest  him  more  than  they  do  his  friends.  Our  mistake  was  that  we  took  his  madness  for  the  same  kind  as  our  own.  Beano  showed  that  he  was  hurt  by  our  lack  of  interest.  He  sulked.  In  " b"THE  IMPOSTOR  order  to  cheer  him  up,  I  asked  where  the  stiff  was.  &quot;Out  in  the  cab,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;What?&quot;  He  laughed  happily  at  our  amaze-  ment,  and  went  on  to  explain.  About  an  hour  ago,  he  had  been  standing  near  the  door  of  the  morgue  embalming  room  when  a  corpse  was  wheeled  out.  It  was  that  of  a  dead  sailor  who  had  been  fished  from  the  Seine.  The  stiff  had  already  been  put  aside  for  some  medical  school,  but  he  in-  sisted  on  measuring  it.  When  he  found  that  it  fit  his  requirements  perfectly,  he  persuaded  the  official  in  charge  to  sell  it  to  him.  The  morgue  peo-  ple  wanted  to  send  it  to  his  studio  in  an  ambulance.  The  cost  was  too  high,  so  he  said  he  would  take  it  home  ina  cab.  They  were  horrified,  but  he  kicked  up  so  much  fuss  that  they  finally  agreed,  just  to  get  rid  ofhim.  He  had  them  rope  its  head  between  its  knees  to  make  the  bundle  compact,  then  wrap  it  in  heavy  paper.  Beano  produced  a  bill  of  sale  and  made  us  all  examine  it.  The  document  was  on  the  stationery  of  the  city  morgue,  and  covered  with  tax  stamps.  Then  he  invited  us  out  to  the  cab  to  see  for  our-  selves.  We  went.  On  the  back  seat  lay  an  enormous  bundle  wrapped  in  heavy  brown  paper.  Beano  tore  a  large  hole  in  the  paper  and  we  looked  through  it.  I  saw  a  bare,  muscular  shoulder  and  part  of  a  sunburned  neck.  A  pale-blue  color  was  just  beginning  to  come  through  the  tan.  We  returned  to  our  table.  We  all  felt  kind  of  queasy  and  subdued,  but  not  Beano.  He  was  in  great  form.  He  ges-  tured  and  roared-the  &quot;man  of  the  renais-  sance.&quot;  He  demanded  that  the  waiter  bring  him  a  fresh  bottle  of  brandy  and  a  tumbler.  He  pushed  the  tumbler  aside  and  drank  out  of  the  bottle,  wiping  his  mouth  with  a  gesture  that  Titian  might  have  envied.  He  pounded  on  the  table  and  talked,  not  to  us  but  to  the  caf\xc3\xa9  in  general.  He  made  a  speech  about  his  new  anatomy  book  and  his  six-foot  man.  A  crowd  gathered  to  listen  to  him.  All  those  who  understood  what  he  was  talking  about  went  out  to  thecab  to  inspect  the  stiff.  In  their  eagerness,  they  tore  at  the  wrapping  paper  until  the  body  was  completely  naked.  Suddenly  a  woman  screamed.  The  sound  came  from  near  the  cab  and  I  turned  to  look.  I  saw  a  middle-aged  lady  in  a  mink  coat.  She  stood  on  the  curb  near  the  cab  and  swayed  as  though  she  were  going  to  faint  while  from  her  mouth  came  a  series  of  short,  gasp-  ing  screams.  She  sounded  a  lotlike  the  steam  whistle  of  a  factory.  I  knew  what  had  happened.  Think-  ing  the  cab  free,  she  had  opened  the  door  and  had  started  to  get  in.  Two  cops  came  running  across  the  street  from  the  Select.  The  lady  pointed-she  didn't  want  to  stop  screaming-to  the  corpse.  When  the  cops  saw  it,  they  got  ex-  cited  and  started  to  argue  with  each  other  like  a  pair  of  stage  Italians.  Then  Beano  turned  and  saw  what  was  happening.  He  ran  into  the  street  with  us  after  him.  He  acknowledged  ownership  of  the  stiff  and  said  that  the  lady  who  was  still  screaming  was  a  damned  hypocrite  who  probably  knew  a  lot  worse-looking  and  deader  men  intimately.  The  cops  called  him  a  murderer  and  a  necrophile,  among  other  things.  They  wouldn't  look  at  the  bill  of  sale.  He  began  to  get  sore.  When  one  of  the  cops  made  a  grab  for  him,  he  hauled  off  and  knocked  the  man  into  the  gutter.  That  was  very  bad.  The  other  cop  got  out  his  whistle  and  blew  it  and  more  cops  came  running  from  all  sides.  They  piled  all  over  Beano  and  soon  had  him  trussed  up.  One  of  them  went  into  the  caf\xc3\xa9  to  call  a  patrol  wagon.  I  tried  to  ar-  gue  with  the  sergeant,  but  he  shoved  me  away.  The  police  wrapped  the  stiff  in  a  tablecloth  and  put  it  into  the  wagon,  then  hustled  Beano  in  after  it.  We  could  hear  him  hollering  that  if  they  so  much  as  damaged  a  single  hair  on  the  head  of  his  property,  he  would  sue  the  city,  have  them  broken,  have  them  walking  a  beat  in  Passy,  etc.,  etc.  We  piled  into  a  taxi  and  followed  the  wagon  to  the  station  house.  When  we  got  there,  Beano  was  standing  in  front  of  the  bench  with  a  cop  on  either  side  of  him,  and  thecorpse  was  stretched  out  on  the  floor  under  the  tablecloth.  Behind  the  bench  was  a  police  magistrate.  He  wasn't  the  usual  run  of  police  official  but  a  jovial,  smiling  little  man,  smoking  a  pipe  with  a  silver  top.  He  looked  very  intelligent  and  I  thought  he  might  give  Beano  a  break.  As  it  turned  out,  however,  Beano  would  81  have  been  a  great  deal  better  off  if  the  magistrate  had  been  stupid.  The  sergeant  made  the  charges;  they  were  murder  and  assaulting  and  injur-  ing  an  officer.  The  magistrate  grinned  and  said  he  would  hear  the  more  seri-  ous  charge  first,  that  of  injuring  a  pol-  iceman;  the  murder  charge  could  wait.  He  laughed  at  his  own  joke  and  looked  at  us.  We  smiled  back  to  get  in  with  him,  but  we  all  knew  it  was  no  joke.  As  a  foreigner,  the  best  Beano  could  hope  for  was  deportation  without  a  jail  sen-  tence.  The  deportation  was  certain,  and  he  stood  a  fine  chance  of  going  to  jail  for  a  few  months  into  the  bargain.  There  goes  his  scholarship,  I  thought;  he'll  be  back  on  the  barges  in  no  time  now.  All  the  cops-there  were  about  ten  of  them-swore  they  had  witnessed  the  assault;  even  the  one  who  had  driven  the  patrol  wagon  swore  to  it.  Then  the  magistrate  let  Beano  talk,.  His  defense  was  a  very  lame  one,  but  he  didn't  seem  to  know  it.  He  admitted  that  he  had  punched  the  cop,  but  claimed  that  he  had  done  it  in  defense  of  his  lawful  possessions.  The  cop  had  tried  to  steal  his  corpse.  He  had  been  only  defend-  ing  his  property,  an  inalienable  right  respected  in  all  civilized  countries.  Beano  then  brought  out  his  bill  of  sale.  The  magistrate  was  delighted  with  Beano's  argument.  He  kept  grinning  and  wiping  the  top  of  his  bald  head.  When  Beano  had  finished,  he  called  the  morgue  and  checked  the  purchase.  He  dismissed  the  murder  charge  but  said  that  he  had  to  hold  Beano  for  as-  sault.  I  stepped  forward  and  asked  him  to  set  bail.  He  refused.  Beano  turned  on  me  and  told  me  to  mind  my  own  busi-  ness.  Going  to  jail  didn't  seem  to  bother  him  in  the  least.  All  that  worried  him  was  what  they  were  going  to  do  with  his  stiff.  The  magistrate  answered  that  he  would  have  it  sent  back  to  the  morgue.  This  made  Beano  frantic,  and  he  began  to  plead.  He  made  a  speech.  He  told  the  magistrate  about  his  new  anatomy  book  and  begged  him  not  to  take  the  stiff  away.  If  he  did,  the  magistrate's  name  would  go  down  in  history  as  the  man  who  put  back  the  clock  of  art,  the  manwho  frustrated  the  genius  of  Beano  Walsh.  The  magistrate  listened  to  all  this  with  a  broad  grin  on  his  face.  He  was  very  much  amused  and  having  one  hell  " b"82  of  a  time.  When  Beano  had  finished,  he  made  a  speech.  First  he  talked  about  Lafayette  and  Pershing,  then  about  how  much  the  French  love  art.  [REDACTED],  he  said,  was  the  only  city  in  the  world  where  even  the  cops  loved  art.  He,  himself,  al-  though  only  a  police  magistrate,  liked  nothing  better  than  to  stroll  through  the  Louvre.  He  was  a  true  art  lover.  Un-  der  no  circumstance  did  he  want  to  risk  becoming  notorious  as  the  man  who  had  hindered  the  progress  of  art.  He  wound  upby  saying  that  Beano  would  not  be  separated  from  his  beloved  corpse,  not  for  a  second,  no,  he  would  have  it  put  in  the  same  cell  with  him.  Beano  thanked  him  and  said  that  he  would  remember  the  magistrate  all  his  life  because  he  had  acted  like  a  true  Frenchman.  Then  he  asked  if  he  could  speak  to  me  alone  for  a  few  seconds.  The  magi-  strate  gave  him  permission.  &quot;For  Christ's  sake,&quot;  I  whispered  to  him,  &quot;let  him  send  that  stiff  back  to  the  morgue.&quot;  He  grinned  at  me.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Listen  to  me,  and  do  what  Isay.  I'll  beat  the  rap,  just  you  watch,  and  I'll  get  that  scholarship  renewed  into  the  bargain.  Call  Simonsohn,  Mr.  Hahn's  man,  at  the  Hotel  Royale,  and  tell  him  what  happened.  Have  him  here  in  the  morning.  Then  get  me  a  large  block  of  draw-  ing  paper  and  have  it  sent  into  my  cell.  I've  got  pencils.&quot;  I  tried  to  argue  withhim,  but  it  wasno  use.  He  just  grinned.  The  last  thing  he  said  was  &quot;A  stove  boat,  my  friend,  or  a  dead  whale.&quot;  When  the  jailor  led  him  off,  he  winked  at  me.  T'wo  cops  put  the  stiff  on  a  sort  of  wheelbarrow  and  trun-  dled  it  after  him.  We  said  goodbye  to  the  magistrate,  who  was  still  laughing,  and  went  outside  toa  caf\xc3\xa9  that  had  a  telephone.  One  of  the  other  guys  went  to  buy  drawing  pa-  per  while  I  called  up  Mr.  Simonsohn.  I  told  him  that  Beano  was  in  jail  and  ex-  plained  what  had  happened.  He  seemed  very  cold,  but  promised  to  be  at  the  sta-  tion  house  with  a  French  lawyer  in  time  for  the  trial.  When  I  arrived  at  the  station  house,  early  the  next  morning,  no  one  was  there  except  a  sergeant  and  the  turnkey.  I  asked  to  see  Beano,  but  the  officer  in  charge  re-  fused  to  give  me  permission.  The  mag-  istrate  had  left  orders  that  absolutely  no  one  was  to  go  into  his  cell,  not  even  the  police.  The  officer  was  called  away  and  I  approached  the  turnkey.  I  gave  him  a  twenty-franc  note  and  he  was  very  friendly.  He  had  seen  Beano  when  he  went  to  the  cell  to  give  him  the  draw-  ing  paper  we  had  bought,  butnot  since  then.  After  some  hesitation,  he  told  me  that  my  friend  had  made  a  lot  of  noise  around  three  o'clock  that  morning,  but  that  he  had  not  investigated  because  of  the  magistrate's  orders.  The  orders  were  unusual,  he  admitted,  but  he  guessed  that  the  idea  was  to  give  Beano  a  good  scare  by  making  him  spend  a  night  in  a  cell  with  a  corpse.  When  the  magistrate  came  in,I  had  to  stop  questioning  the  turnkey.  Soon  afterward,  a  group  of  our  friends  ar-  rived;  then  Mr.  Simonsohn  came  in  with  a  French  lawyer.  The  lawyer  was  an  ex-judge  and  knew  the  magistrate  well.  They  went  off  together  to  the  magistrate's  private  office.  I  went  over  to  speak  to  Mr.  Simonsohn.  He  asked  me  to  explain  what  had  happened.  I  did  my  best  to  make  the  theory  of  the  six-foot  man  sound  as  reason-  able  and  as  impressive  as  possible  by  telling  it  in  Beano's  words,but  I  couldn't  get  his  passion  into  it.  I  was  worrying  about  the  scholarship.  Although  I  made  a  hash  of  it,  Mr.  Si-  monsohn  seemed  impressed  and  was  quite  sympathetic.  He  even  sighed  with  plea-  sure  when  I  had  finished:  &quot;Ah,  you  artists!&quot;  When  he  started  to  talk  I  found  out  why  his  manner  had  changed  so  much  since  last  night  when  I  had  talked  to  him  over  the  phone.  Soon  after  I  called,  a  squad  of  reporters  had  arrived  at  his  hotel  and  had  demanded  to  know  all  about  Beano  and  the  Oscar  Hahn  Foundation.  As  secretary  of  the  founda-  tion,  he  had  been  quoted  extensively,  and  some  of  this  morning's  papers  had  run  his  picture.  He  showed  me  the  pic-  tures  with  a  great  deal  of  pride.  I  real-  ized  that  Beano  had  put  it  over  and  that  he  was  a  cinch  fora  renewal  of  the  scholarship.  I  asked  Mr.  Simonsohn  what  the  lawyer  intended  to  do  about  the  as-  sault  charge.  He  said  that  if  it  couldn't  be  fixed  with  the  magistrate  for  a  sus-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  2,  1997  pended  sentence,  they  would  plead  tem-  porary  insanity  and  send  Beano  to  the  country  for  a  week.  While  we  talked,  the  little  police  court  filled  with  people-reporters,  photographers,  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  and  the  merely  curious.  The  magistrate  was  very  much  impressed.  When  the  turnkey  left  to  bring  in  the  prisoner,  he  permitted  Mr.  Simonsohn,  the  lawyer,  several  reporters,  and  myself  to  go  along.  I  walked  in  front  of  the  procession-it  was  almost  a  triumphal  one-with  the  turnkey.  We  moved  fast  and  soon  got  some  distance  ahead  of  the  others.  The  turnkey  told  me  that  Beano  was  in  a  special  cell  reserved  for  drunks  and  other  violent  folks  which  was  separated  from  the  main  block  by  a  long  corridor.  When  we  came  in  sight  of  it,  I  called  out,  &quot;We're  here,  Beano!&quot;  My  idea  was  to  warn  him,  but  when  he  didn't  answer  I  had  a  premonition  that  something  was  wrong.  I  broke  into  a  run  with  the  turn-  key  after  me.  I  got  there  first  and  peered  through  the  bars.  The  cell  was  full  ofdeep  sha-  dow  and  I  couldn't  see  anything.  All  I  got  was  astrong  whiff  of  formalde-  hyde  and  another  smell,  an  acid,  which  I  didn't  recognize.  The  turnkey  opened  the  door  and  I  popped  in  ahead  of  him  while  he  was  taking  the  key  out  of  the  lock.  I  took  a  quick  glance  around  but  didn'tsee  the  prisoner.  &quot;He's  gone,&quot;  I  blurted  out.  The  turnkey  took  a  look  and  acted  fast.  He  forced  back  the  oth-  ers,  who  had  just  come  up,  and  slammed  the  door  with  me  inside,  then  ran  to  turn  in  the  alarm.  Along  one  wall  of  the  cell  was  a  wooden  bench  with  a  mattress  and  pillow  and  on  it  lay  the  stiff.  He  was  in  terrible  condition,  broken  and  torn.  One  of  his  arms  had  been  skinnedout  and  the  muscles,  bone,  and  sinew  ex-  posed.  A  penknife  was  sticking  in  his  chest  and  there  were  great  wounds  in  his  belly  from  which  stained  wads  of  cotton  protruded.  The  floor  was  cov-  ered  with  drawing  paper.  I  picked  up  a  sheet  and  examined  it.  I  saw  that  Beano  had  been  trying  to  draw  the  skinned  arm.  It  was  an  anatomical  drawing,  but  very  crude.  A  child  might  have  done  better.  Then  I  spotted  Beano.  He  was  un-  der  the  bench  and  partially  hidden  by  the  legs  of  the  stiff,  which  hung  down.  " b"THE  IMPOSTOR  He  lay  huddled  up  in  one  corner  with  his  face  to  the  wall.  &quot;Beano,&quot;  I  hollered  at  him,  &quot;for  Christ's  sake  come  out  of  there.&quot;  He  didn't  move,  so  I  prodded  him  with  my  foot.  &quot;That's  enough,&quot;  Isaid,  getting  sore.  &quot;Snap  out  of  it.  You've  beaten  the  rap  and  Simon-  sohn  told  me  he  would  renew  the  schol-  arship.&quot;  I  pleaded  with  him,  &quot;Please,  Beano,  please.&quot;  But  he  neither  moved  nor  spoke.  When  the  turnkey  and  the  cops  burst  into  the  cell,  I  pointed  him  out  to  them.  They  reached  under  the  bench  and  hauled  him  into  the  middle  of  the  room.  His  eyes  were  open  and  he  was  wearing  his  derby  hat,  but  he  couldn't,  or  wouldn't,  stand  on  his  feet.  He  didn't  say  a  word.  As  they  dragged  him  by  me,  I  thought  at  the  time  that  he  winked  but  I'm  not  sure  now.  He  beat  the  rap,  all  right.  They  didn't  even  arraign  him  on  the  charges.  And  he  got  the  scholarship  renewed,  too-at  least,  the  Hahn  Foundation  still  sup-  ported  him.  Mr.  Simonsohn  sent  him  to  the  country,  and  after  he  had  been  there  a  week  I  went  to  visit  him.  It  was  a  hos-  pital  disguised  as  a  motel.  I  saw  the  doc-  tor  in  charge  and  got  permission  to  visit  him.  An  orderly  showed  me  to  his  room.  It  was  a  tiny  place,  a  cell  in  fact,  much  like  the  one  in  the  station  house.  Beano  was  still  wearing  his  derby  but  the  rest  of  his  clothes  had  been  changed  for  a  bathrobe  and  carpet  slippers.  &quot;Hello,  Beano,&quot;  I  said.  He  didn't  answer.  I  laughed  awkwardly.  &quot;Cut  it  out,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You've  gotten  everything  you  wanted.  Snap  out  of  it.  What  the  hell  more  do  you  want?&quot;&quot;  He  gave  no  sign  that  he  had  heard  me.  I  wenton  talking,  but  nothing  I  said  seemed  to  make  any  impression  on  him.  He  just  sat  on  the  bedand  stared  at  me.  When  I  found  myself  shouting  hysteri-  cally  at  him,  I  got  up  to  leave.  I  turned  back  for  a  last  time,  and  said,  &quot;All  right,  Beano,  if  you  won't  say  anything,  at  least  wink  at  me.&quot;  He  didn't  move.  I  went  back  to  see  the  doctor.  I  was  determined  to  give  the  game  away.  &quot;He's  a  fake,&quot;  I  blurted  out  as  soon  as  I  got  to  the  doctor's  office.  &quot;The  whole  83  thing  is  a  swindle.  He's  not  crazy.  He's  putting  it  on  to  fool  the  police.&quot;  The  doctor  heard  me  out,  and  when  I  had  finished  he  said  quite  calmly,  &quot;That's  what  we  thought  when  he  ar-  rived.  The  board  of  this  hospital  now  feels  certain  that  he  is  crazy.  He's  insane  and  will  never  leave  an  asylum  again  in  his  life.&quot;  I  tried  to  argue.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  the  doctor  said,  losing  pa-  tience,  &quot;your  friend  simulated  insanity  in  order  to  get  by  as  a  sane  man.  The  insane  are  sometimes  very  clever,  you  know.  He's  an  insane  man  who  knows  he's  insane.  I'm  almost  certain  he  must  have  been  in  a  hospital  before.  Instead  of  hiding  his  disease,  which  would  be  the  obvious  thing  to  do,  he  hid  only  part  of  it,  the  more  serious  part,  and  used  the  part  he  exposed  to  hide  the  rest.  But  he's  really  crazy,  and  he  went  too  far  with  it.&quot;  All  the  way  back  to  [REDACTED]  in  the  train,  I  kept  wondering  about  the  doctor  and  al-  most  came  to  the  conclusion  that  it  was  he  who  was  crazy.  But  he  must  have  been  right,  because  Beano  is  still  in  an  asylum. "