 b"74  FICTION  VISIONS  FUGI  T  IVES  The  variation  matters  s  o  much  more  than  the  them  e.     straight  on,  and  shortly  Saint-Julien  (Saint-Julien-sur-Meuse)  comes  into  view.  The  village  (completely  ruined)  is  reached  after  crossing  first  the  railway  and  then  the  small  River  Andon.  Mo-  torcars  can  climb  as  far  as  the  church.  Turn  to  the  right  after  passing  the  church.  Numerous  German  dugouts  and  gun  emplacements  can  be  observed  here.  Down  the  lane  about  three  hun-  dred  yards  from  the  village  there  comes  into  view  on  the  side  of  the  hill  a  very  large  American  cemetery  containing  some  twenty-eight  thousand  graves.  'There  is  a  fine  view  from  here  of  the  lower  town  and  the  valley  of  the  Meuse  (photo  pp.  12  and  13).&quot;  ARIS.  Yesterday.  Watery  Novem-  ber  sunshine  on  glossy  cobbles.  A  rime  of  sleet  melted  by  breakfast.  With  sullen  aplomb  the  waiter  scooped  our  plates  and  coffee  cups  from  the  ta-  ble.  My  daughter's  hands  were  raw  and  scraped  from  shucking  four  hundred  oysters  the  night  before,  her  knuckles  badged  with  tiny,  brilliant,  forming  scabs.  I  saw,  as  she  handed  me  back  the  letter  and  the  old  guidebook,  that  her  fingernails  were  bitten  halfway  down  to  the  cuticle.  She  looked  beautiful,  I  thought,  but  deathly  tired,  her  beauty  draining  from  her.  &quot;Who's  the  little  girl  with  Grandma?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No,  that  must  be  my  great-  grandma.&quot;  &quot;You  look  malnourished,  Millie,&quot;  I  said  as  I  took  the  photograph  from  her.  &quot;It's  your  great-aunt  Sarah.&quot;  &quot;Malnourished?  All  chefs  are  malnour-     BY  WILLIAM  BOYD  ished,&quot;  she  laughed.  My  daughter  had  been  working  in  [REDACTED]  since  the  summer.  &quot;Do  you  really  know  where  you're  going?&quot;  &quot;I'm  heading  for  Metz.&quot;  &quot;Well,  drive  carefully.  What's  gotten  into  you,  anyway?  I  thought  you  were  on  holiday.  Is  this  wise?&quot;  &quot;I  am  on  holiday.  And  I'm  going  to  Saint-Julien.  I  have  to  be  there  on  the  fourth.&quot;  I  handed  her  a  cutting  from  a  French  newspaper.  &quot;This  was  what  in-  spired  me.&quot;  She  read  the  cutting:  &quot;MAVROCOR-  DATO  S'EST  SUICIDE.&quot;  &quot;I  still  don't  get  it,  Dad.  Who's  Mavrocordato?&quot;  &quot;He's  a  film  director.  Was  a  film  director.&quot;  \xc2\xa9  AR  MRS.  CULPEPPER-  Thank  you  for  your  letter.  I  do  not  know  if  I  can  be  more  precise  but  I  will  try.  The  village  was  in  near  complete  ruins  and  was  called  Saint-Julien,  I  think.  I  remember  we  crossed  a  railway  line  and  then  a  small  stream.  There  was  a  lower  town  and  up  on  a  hill  beyond  there  was  a  church  and  other  buildings,  all  fairly  knocked  about.  I  remember  three  fine  ancient  cypresses  all  broken  down  from  artillery.  The  lower  town  was  quiet,  a  few  bodies  here  and  there,  but  well  cleared  out.  Captain  Shaw  sent  our  platoon  for-  ward  up  the  road  to  the  church.  It  was  about  three  in  the  afternoon,  quite  mild,  with  a  light  rain  falling.  This  was  Novem-  ber  4,  1918.  ...&quot;  In  the  photograph  my  grandmother  is  standing  holding  her  daughter's  hand  in  front  of  the  sign.  &quot;Saint-Julien&quot;  stands  out  starkly,  black  on  white,  in  what  is  a  rather  fogged,  sun-faded  print.  All  around  them  lie  the  ruins  of  the  lower  town.  On  the  hill  behind  is  the  church  with  its  shat-  tered  cypresses.  My  grandmother  stands  stiffly  (I  wonder  who  took  the  picture?);  her  daughter  (my  aunt  Sarah)  has  turned  her  head  slightly  in  her  direction,  as  if  to  askher  a  question.  The  date  is  1920,  some  two  years  after  my  grandfather  died.  2.  DEDUCED  that  the  noise  must  have  been  caused  by  a  spontaneous  rally  of  fifty  garbage  trucks  deciding  to  have  a  revving  competition  on  Seventh  Avenue-  many  floors  below,  true,  but  the  sonic  vi-  brations  were  palpable  up  here.  I  was  try-  ing  to  listen  to  &quot;Variations  on  a  Theme  by  Haydn&quot;  on  my  tape  recorder  and  at  the  same  time  was  going  through  my  notes  of  the  previous  night's  concert.  The  effort  it  was  costing  reminded  me  forcefully  of  the  main  reason  I  left  New  York.  I  had  just  turned  up  the  volume  when  my  breakfast  arrived.  &quot;It's  open,&quot;  I  called,  not  looking  round,  hearing  the  metallic  rattle  of  the  room-service  trolley  and  the  clink  of  glass  and  silverware  as  it  made  its  shuddery,  per-  cussive  way  over  to  the  window.  &quot;Ah,  Brahms,&quot;  said  the  waiter,  orga-  nizing  the  table  setting  (now  I  did  look  round).  His  voice  was  light,  the  &quot;r&quot;  rolled  slightly,  in  the  French  way.  He  turned-that  is,  she  turned.  In  full  waiter's  rig:  starched  bum-freezer  jacket,  black  trousers,  laceup  shoes,  a  black  bow  tie.  Blond  hair  held  back  in  a  taut  chignon.  Late  thirties,  I  calculated,  older  than  me.  &quot;Aimez-vous  Brahms?&quot;  she  said  with  a  smile,  holding  out  the  slim  folder  with  the  check  for  me  to  sign.  'T'm  writing  a  book  on  him,&quot;  I  said,  noticing  simultaneously  the  sudden  hol-  lowness  in  my  chest  and  the  fact  that  her  name  tag  said  &quot;Jay.&quot;  Odd  name  for  a  woman.  &quot;I  love  Brahms,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Me,  too,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;More  than  life.&quot;  3.  E  were  almost  up  to  the  church  when  the  shells  started  explod-  ing  on  the  road.  A  whole  bunch  of  us  took  cover  in  the  graveyard,  but  they  had  that  targeted,  too.  Lieutenant  Povitch  \xc2\xab  %  2  fel  &lt;  a  a.  y  a  " b"shouted  at  us  to  head  back  to  the  lower  town.  John  and  I  with  a  dozen  others  had  jumped  over  a  low  wall  that  bounded  thecemetery.  Ahead  of  us  up  the  hill  to  the  left  we  could  see  a  ruined  farmhouse  and  a  big  stone  barn.  It  made  more  sense  to  take  cover  up  there  than  risk  the  descent  to  the  lowertown.  We  set  off,  John  was  right  behind  me.  ...&quot;  My  grandmother  and  her  daughter  Sarah  stayed  at  the  Hostellerie  des  Rem-  parts,  in  Rochette,  &quot;the  original  kitchen  of  which,&quot;  according  to  their  guidebook,  &quot;has  preserved  its  ample  proportions  and  innumerable  copper  utensils.&quot;  My  guide-  book  makes  no  mention  of  this  estab-  lishment,  but  I  have  decided  to  stay  in  the  town  anyway,  if  only  to  approximate  the  spirit  of  this  impromptu  pilgrimage.  The  road  from  [REDACTED]  is  quiet,  and  I  am  finding,  to  my  vague  surprise,  that  I  am  actually  enjoying  driving.  I  will  stay  somewhere  in  Rochette  and  proceed  to  Saint-Julien  tomorrow,  taking  my  time,  making  sure  that  asI  walk  up  the  hill  from  the  lower  town  it  will  be  around  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  Ifa  light  rain  happens  to  be  falling,  so  much  the  better.  4.  HAT  Haydn  did  not  write  the  mel-  ody  that  inspired  Brahms'  cele-  brated  &quot;Variations&quot;  is  well  known,  but  the  designation  is  firmly  established  and  so-  So  what?  So  we  might  as  well  stick  with  it.  How  to  express  that  more  ele-  gantly?  How  to  say  that  the  notion  that  this  fool  has  found  a  &quot;missing&quot;  variation  is  a  crock,  a  brimful,  steaming,  Grade  A  crock  of-  Jay  came  into  the  bar  and  I  put  down  my  notes  with  barely  a  tremble,  scarcely  a  rustle  of  paper.  She  was  wearing  a  short  black  dress  and  her  hair  was  still  up,  but  more  loosely,  the  result  of  some  artful  ma-  nipulation  of  pins  and  tortoiseshell  combs.  We  shook  hands.  It  seemed  unduly  formal,  but  she  was  foreign.  She  smiled  as  I  Siteg-heiled  through  the  gloom  at  the  idle  waiter.  &quot;How's  the  demolishment  going?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  stiletto  has  been  inserted  be-  tween  the  seventh  and  eighth  ribs.  We  are  halfway  to  the  hilt.&quot;  &quot;This  new  variation  was  meant  to  go  where?&quot;  &quot;Another  vodka  Martini  and-&quot;  I  said  to  the  waiter  and  glanced  round  atJay.  &quot;And  another  vodka  Martini,  on  the  rocks.&quot;  &quot;Between  two  and  three.  Variation  2-A,  I  suppose.  Absurd.&quot;  &quot;Obscene.  May  I?&quot;  She  took  one  of  my  cigarettes  from  the  pack  on  the  table,  broke  off  the  filtertip,  and  put  the  shortened  fil-  terless  cigarette  to  her  lips,  a  little  off  cen-  ter.  I  reached  for  my  lighter  but  she  was  there  first.  Yet  she  frowned,  not  lighting  her  cigarette,  thinking  (thinking  about  Brahms?),  the  cigarette  between  her  lips,  slightly  off  center,  three  uneven  creases  between  her  fine  dark-blond  frowning  eyebrows.  This  is  how  I  will  always  remember  her,  frowning,  trying  to  imag-  ine  what  possible  kind  of  variation  could  have  gone  between  Nos.  2  and  3.  This  is  one  of  the  ways  I  will  remember  her.  5.  INT.  NIGHT:  The  man  is  leaning  against  the  window  frame  of  the  hotel  room,  his  forehead  against  a  cool  pane.  There  is  a  flushing  of  water  on  the  soundtrack  (over)  and  the  man  does  not  look  round.  Irene  Golan's  round  impas-  sive  face,  then  the  camera  tracks  down  her  body.  Her  small  breasts,  the  swell  of  her  stomach,  her  neat  divot  of  pu-  bic  hair,  her  knees,  her  feet.  Her  name.  Irene  Golan.  The  man  in  profile:  he  closes  his  eyes.  The  girl  is  in  the  room  now,  a  stronger  light  coming  through  the  left-ajar  bathroom  door.  She  wears  a  loose  white  T-shirt  (the  man's?)  and  black  panties  that  do  not  quite  conceal  the  cleft  between  her  buttocks.  The  man  moves  away  from  the  window.  &quot;How  many  times  did  you  sleep  with  Urbain?&quot;  he  asks,  in  a  reasonable  voice.  &quot;You  can  tell  me,  I  don't  particularly  mind.&quot;  The  girl  is  sitting  down  at  the  room's  solitary  table.  Leaning  forward  slightly.  From  the  configuration  of  the  folds  of  her  T-shirt,  the  convexities  and  concavi-  ties,  it  is  possible  to  imagine  that,  be-  neath  her  T-shirt,  her  breasts  are  just  resting  on  the  tabletop-the  underhang  of  her  breasts  just  grazing  the  tabletop.  She  has  an  unlit  cigarette  in  her  mouth,  just  off  center,  and  freezes  in  the  act  of  removing  a  match  from  a  book  of  matches.  She  frowns,  possibly,  you  imag-  ine,  considering  a  response  to  this  ques-  tion.  She  looks  directly  at  you,  and  with  two  fingers  takes  the  unlit  cigarette  from  her  mouth  and  says,  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  really  a  beautiful  country.&quot;  Cigarette  from  her  mouth,  turns  and  looks  directly  at  y\xc2\xab  and  says,  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  really  abeautiful,  6.  AY  carefully  picked  a  shred  of  tobace  from  the  pink  point  of  her  tongu  &quot;Do  you  want  to&quot;-I  cleared  my  throat  &quot;eat,  stay  here,  try-&quot;  &quot;Td  like  to  go  to  a  movie,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  like  to  see,  more  than  anything,  'Visio1  Fugitives.&quot;  I've  read  that  it's  playing  som  where  downtown.&quot;  &quot;Anything  you  say,  Jay,&quot;  I  said.  She  looked  curiously  at  me.  &quot;Why  c  you  call  me  Jay?&quot;  she  asked.  I  explaine  She  chuckled.  &quot;Oh,  that.  I  was  on  helping  Jay  out.  I  forgot  to  take  his  nan  off  the  jacket.&quot;  I  felt  that  slipping  and  sliding  insic  me  once  more.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  have  me  at  a  di  advantage.  You  know  my  name.  I  thoug  I  knew  yours.&quot;  &quot;It's  Irene,&quot;  she  said.  7.  &quot;  ALL  the  way  up  to  the  farm  buildir  John  was  right  behind  me.  He  w  saying,  'Come  on,  Bob,  let's  go,  let's  g  Bob.'  When  we  reached  the  farm  we  cou  see  that  it  was  in  full  view  of  the  trenc  lines  and  gun  emplacements  in  the  upp  town.  Other  menwho  had  run  up  fro:  the  churchyard  had  taken  shelter  behir  the  barn,  whose  walls  were  three  feet  thic  an  ancient  building.  'Over  there,  Bot  John  said  to  me.  'That's  for  us,  buddy.&quot;  can  hear  his  voice  in  my  earsas  I  write  thi  There  was  a  four-yard  gap  between  th  end  of  the  farmhouse  and  the  gable  en  of  the  barn.  John  pushed  me  in  the  bac  and  I  hightailed  it,  ran  round  the  corn  of  the  barn  and  fell  over.  That's  when  heard  the  explosion.  Some  tiles  were  blow  off  the  roof  and  there  was  a  lot  of  smok  There  were  some  hens  inside  thebar  and  they  set  up  a  mighty  squawking.  ..  According  to  my  grandmother's  note  i  the  margin  of  the  guidebook,  she  and  Sara  ate  &quot;some  kind  of  stew&quot;  the  night  they  staye  in  Rochette,  but  neither  of  them  had  muc  appetite.  I  find  a  room  in  the  Hotel  d  Cygne  (two  stars)  in  the  Place  des  Halls  and,  dutifully,  eat  a  cartilaginous  dawbe  .  boeuf  in  the  Brasserie  Centrale,  five  mir  utes  from  the  hotel,  an  overlit  establist  ment  as  doggedly  functional  as  its  nam  Walking  home  at  night  I  reflect  th:  there  are  few  places  quite  so  firmlyclosed  an  " b"T6  shuttered  to  the  traveller  as  a  French  village  after  hours.  Even  the  hotel  door  is  locked,  and  it  takes  half  a  dozen  rings  to  summon  the  amiable  patron  from  his  flickering  TV.  I  stand  in  my  room  and  look  down  at  the  silent  street,  the  shine  of  the  street  lamps  picking  out  the  dead  cars  in  dewy,  nighttime  monochrome.  I  have  that  sensation-you  must  know  that  form  of  self-consciousness  that  comes  from  being  strangely  alone-  when  every  gesture,  every  scratch  of  the  head,  every  throat-clearing  acquires  a  cu-  rious,  mannered  significance.  I  feel  I  am  performing,  I  feel  I  am  being  filmed.  I  feel  I  am  playing  out  an  abandoned  scene  from  &quot;Visions  Fugitives.&quot;  8.  NT.  NIGHT:  The  man  sits  in  a  wooden  chair,  smoking,  and  watches  the  girl  sleeping.  Birdsong,  morning  light  squeez-  ing  through  half-open  shutters.  The  man  is  clothed  but  the  girl-most  of  her  beneath  a  sheet-is  plainly  naked.  Irene  Golan's  face.  The  man  picks  through  the  girl's  clothes,  searches  her  fringed  suede  handbag,  goes  through  her  coat  pockets,  lights  another  cigarette,  sits  down,  stands  up,  walks  round  the  bed,  Smoking  his  cigarette,  walks  round  the  bed  and  crouches  down,  staring  at  her.  The  girl's  face.  The  man's  face.  Irene  Golan  turns  through  ninety  degrees.  The  man  stands  by  the  closed  window.  Stands  by  the  open  win-  dow.  Two  gendarmes  in  the  street  be-  low.  The  man  recoils,  turns  and  kicks  the  leg  of  the  bed.  &quot;Hey,  get  up.  I'll  bring  the  car  round.&quot;  The  girl  wakes  and  sits  up  in  bed,  slowly.  Her  right  arm  gathering  the  sheet  to  her  breasts,  modestly.  She  looks  as  if  she  had  really  been  sleeping.  The  man  leaves  the  room  and  the  girl  sighs  bored,  irritated.  With  her  free  hand  she  pushes  strands  of  hair  back  from  her  slumped  and  sleepy  face.  She  yawns  and  a  corner  of  the  sheet  slips  and  nearly  falls     THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  17,  1997  free.  You  wonder  if  they  made  love  the  night  before.  There  is  the  sound  of  the  key  locking  the  door.  The  girl  does  not  even  turn  her  head.  9,  &quot;TOHN  was  lying  on  the  ground  in  the  gap  between  the  farmhouse  and  the  barn.  He  was  rolled  onto  his  side.  And  he  was  very  pale,  white  as  chalk.  But  there  was  no  mark  on  him,  not  a  drop  of  blood.  It  must  have  happened  instantly-I  was  told  that  the  concussive  force  of  certain  explosions  can  do  this  to  you.  There  appears  to  be  no  evident  cause  of  death,  apart  from  this  unnatu-  ral  pallor,  as  if  the  blood  as  well  as  the  breath  has  been  driven  from  you.  We  pulled  him  into  the  lee  of  the  barn  wall  and  we  waited  until  dark,  at  which  point  we  made  our  way  back  to  the  lower  town.  I  am  sure  it  happened  in  a  split  second  and  it  is  inconceivable  that  he  knew  a  thing.  This  is  exactly  as  I  remem-  ber  it.  I  hope  this  is  of  some  comfort.  I  should  only  add  that  he  seemed  very  peaceful.  The  next  morning  our  battalion  was  withdrawn  from  Saint-Julien  and  we  remained  in  billets  at  Verdun  until  the  Armistice.  Yours  sincerely,  J.  Robert  (Bob)  Quentin&quot;  10.  \xc2\xab'C  Tisfons  FucItives'  (1961).  Un  film  de  Jean-Didier  Mawvrocordato.  Avec  la  participation  d'Alain  Hoffman  et  Julienne  Jodelet.  .  ..&quot;  I  remember  the  poster.  I  remember  the  revival  house  in  the  Village  running  a  season  of  &quot;nouvelle  vague&quot;  films  from  the  sixties.  I  remem-  ber  certain  scenes  in  the  movie  with  the  recall  of  the  most  pedantic  cin\xc3\xa9aste.  But  the  rest  of  it  remains  opaque.  It  was  not  that  long  ago,  either.  T'welve  years,  thir-  teen.  I  have  never  made  any  attempt  to  see  the  film  again.  The  memory,  with  all  its  gaps,  remains  sharp,  perfect  but  frag-  ile,  and  I  do  not  want  it  disturbed,  do  not  want  to  shatter  its  perfect  fragility.  I1.  iy  AVROCORDATO  is  Swiss,  I  am  Swiss.  I  think  he  used  a  village  in  [REDACTED]  for  this  film  which  I  know.  Saint-Julien,  it's  not  far  from  my  home.&quot;  &quot;Where's  that?&quot;  &quot;Near  Lausanne.&quot;  " b" The  lights  dimmed.  The  film  began.  On  the  screen  the  credits  rolled  and  the  abrasive,  badly  recorded  jazz  score  filled  the  cinema.  Tinny  trumpet  blare,  hiss  and  tap  of  wire  brush  on  snare  drum.  I  don't  think  I  had  seen  a  black-and-white  film  in  the  cinema  for  over  a  decade.  I  watched,  with  the  curiosity  ofan  anthropologist,  as  Alain  Hoffman  and  Julienne  Jodelet  strolled  hand  in  hand  along  a  promenade.  [REDACTED]?  Villefranche?  Beaulieu?  Juan-les-  Pins?  I  find  it  hard  to  recall  much  more  of  the  opening  sequence  of  the  film.  In  the  shifting  silver  of  the  semi-dark  I  felt  Irene  gently  take  my  hand.  12.  HO  was  this  Irene  Golan?  Why  did  Mavrocordato  use  that  old  photograph  in  his  film?  Cutting  back  to  it  repeatedly?  As  if  it  were  a  vision  of  absolute  torment  to  taciturn  Alain  Hoffman,  on  the  run  with  the  exquis-  ite  Julienne  Jodelet.  ...  I  lie  in  my  lumpy  bed  in  the  Hotel  du  Cygne,  my  head  resting  on  the  solid  bolster  that  passes  for  a  pillow,  and  shuffle  the  images  that  slip  into  my  mind.  I  will  not  sleep,  I  know,  my  mind  going  now  in  the  per-  fect  shuttered  blackness  of  the  room,  in  that  dead  calm  of  hotel  noiselessness-  which  is  not  noiseless  at  all.  A  distant  truck  changes  gear  on  the  nationale,  the  chuckling  of  the  central  heating,  the  un-  explained  creaks  and  thuddings  of  an  old  building,  the  confessional  whisper  of  a  toilet  flush  somewhere  below.  Sh-h-h.  You  know  those  unhindering  hours  of  the  night  when  your  thoughts  will  wander  free,  sometimes  freighted  with  despair,  but  sometimes  inspired  and  al-  most  miraculous-this  is  one  of  those  nights.  And  just  before  I  begin  to  doze  I  think  I  have  it,  my  Theory  of  Ev-  erything.  It  is  to  do,  I  decide,  with  mys-  terious  parabolas,  as  if  a  projectile  is  launched-a  stone,  a  dart,  an  arrow-  sent  soaring  in  the  direction  of  your  life.  One  day  it  will  descend,  following  its  parabolic  curve,  and  hit  you,  or  glance  off  you,  or  just  miss  you.  It  seems  to  me  in  the  dazzle-dark  of  this  shuttered  hotel  room  that  at  times  our  individual  lives  are  pepper-shot  with  these  mysterious  comings  to  earth.  Much  of  the  time  they  pass  unacknowledged-or,  if  we  do  ac-  knowledge  them,  we  are  only  half  aware  of  something  happening  to  us.  We  stop  and  turn  and  take  our  bearings-we  shiver,  we  ponder,  we  forget-but  do  not  really  understand  that  we  have  just  inter-  sected  with  a  mysterious  parabola.  Even  if  we  do,  even  if  we  grant  that  something  has  happened,  something  has  changed,  we  do  not  understand  because  we  cannot  trace  that  parabola  back  to  its  starting  place.  We  all  know  these  moments  of  fleeting  significance  that  touch  our  lives.  The  great  problem,  the  abiding  problem,  is  to  make  some  sense  of  them.  ...  The  bizarre  death  of  John  Culpepper  in  Saint-Julien  on  November  4,  1918.  Brahms'  &quot;Variations  on  a  Theme  by  Haydn.&quot;  Jay  turning  into  Ir\xc3\xa9ne.  (There's  one:  She  recognized  Brahms.  What  if  she  had  not?)  &quot;Visions  Fugitives.&quot;  Jean-  Didier  Mavrocordato's  decision  to  film  his  nouvelle-vague  masterwork  in  the  small  town  on  the  Meuse  where  my  grandfather  had  died.  Irene's  misconcep-  tion  that  it  was  filmed  near  Lausanne  provoking  our  argument.  Mavrocorda-  to's  suicide  (that  touched  me,  glanced  off  me,  that  one,  but  only  because  I  am  here  in  [REDACTED]).  I  would  not  be  lying  in  my  unyielding  bed  in  the  Hotel  du  Cygne  if  John  Culpepper  had  not  pushed  his  friend  Bob  across  the  gap  between  farm-  house  and  barn  first,  instead  of  going  himself.  13.  RAHMS  chose  something  deeply  ob-  scure  and,  through  the  special  al-  chemy  of  his  genius,  transformed  it  into  one  of  the  best-known  tunes  in  the  or-  chestral  repertoire.  The  melody  he  chose  has  nothing  to  do  with  Haydn:  it  forms  the  second  movement  of  a  piece,  perhaps  by  one  Ignace  Pleyel,  which  may  in  turn  come  from  some  older,  even  more  forgot-  ten  source.&quot;  Irene  stopped  reading.  She  was  sit-  ting  at  the  desk  in  my  hotel  room,  my  typescript  in  front  of  her.  She  was  lean-  ing  forward  slightly,  resting  on  her  el-  bows,  and  one  could  imagine,  from  the  convexities  and  concavities  of  her  dress  bodice,  that  her  breasts  were  just  touch-  ing  the  desktop,  that  the  underhang  of  her  breasts  was  just  grazing  the  desktop.  &quot;Interesting,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  that.&quot;  &quot;Keep  going,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  sounds  bet-  ter  when  you  read  it.  Your  accent  makes  it  sound  more  intelligent.&quot;  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  really  think  I  should  go  to  [REDACTED]  next.&quot;  I  poured  some  more  whiskey  into " b"78  her  glass  and  added  some  ice  cubes.  My  throat  felt  thick;  I  could  think  of  noth-  ing,  absolutely  nothing,  to  say.  She  put  my  typescript  down  and  picked  up  the  leather-framed  photograph  of  my  wife  and  children,  my  travelling  photograph.  &quot;What  are  your  daughters  called?&quot;  &quot;Millie.  And  Lucy.  Lucy  and  Millie.&quot;  &quot;How  old  are  they?  &quot;Six  and  four.  Millie's  the  oldest.&quot;  She  stood  up,  her  eyes  distant,  and  strolled  round  from  behind  the  desk,  com-  ing  over  toward  me  to  collect  her  drink.  &quot;It's  wonderful  that,  no?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;To  take  something  so  obscure  and  make  it  so  memorable.&quot;  &quot;What?  Oh,  you  mean  Brahms,  the  'Variations.'&quot;  &quot;But  we  all  do  that,  I  suppose,  don't  we?  In  our  own  lives,  in  our  own  way.  Or  at  least  sometimes  we  try.  We  should  try,  when  we  have  that  chance,  to  do  what  Brahms  did.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  It's  not  so  easy.  I  suppose  we-&quot;  &quot;Or  maybe  I  should  go  to  Mexique.  What  do  you  think,  [REDACTED]  or  Mexique?&quot;  I  took  a  few  steps  away  from  her.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;there's  no  way  that  village  was  in  [REDACTED].  That  village  was  not  in  [REDACTED],  that  Saint-Julien.  That  was  [REDACTED],  definitely.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;Shall  we  have  a  row?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  can  you  be  so  sure?  Prove  it.&quot;  14.  NT.  NIGHT:  The  man  locks  the  girl  in  the  room  and  she  doesn't  evenlook  round  at  the  sound  of  the  key  turning  in  the  lock.  When  the  man  returns  and  opens  the  door  again,  the  girl  is  gone.  15.  T  is  almost  three  o'clock,  overcast,  with  low,  packed,  mouse-gray  clouds,  but  no  light  rain  falls  asI  walk  up  the  steepish  street  from  the  lower  town  to  the  upper,  although  now  all  trace  of  a  di-  vision  has  been  erased  by  almost  eighty  years  of  building  and  development.  I  pass  a  dry  cleaner,  a  grocery  store,  a  flower  shop,  a  real-estate  agent,  and  an  empty  patisserie  with  a  &quot;For  Sale&quot;  sign  slipped  between  the  venetian  blind  and  the  dusty  windowpane.  The  church  still  stands  some  little  way  apart,  islanded  by  a  wide  grass  bank  and  a  gravel  path,  and  the  cemetery  wall  is  high  enough  to  obscure  all  but  the  tall-  est  of  tombs.  I  walk  around  the  foot  of  the  cemetery  and  pause  awhile  in  the  lee    of  the  wall,  looking  up  at  the  solid  stone  farmhouse  on  t  he  hi  ll's  crest  and  to  the  left,  beside  it,  a  splendid  o  ld  stone  barn.  Now  the  re  is  a  single-track,  metalle  d  road  that  w  inds  up  between  back  g  arden  s  on  one  side  and  a  field  cro  pped  short  by  sleek  beige  co  ws.  I  think  of  John  Cul-  pepper  and  h  is  friend  Bob  Quentin  shel-  t  ering  here  by  the  cemetery.  In  their  place  I  would  have  made  for  the  farm  and  those  thick  stone  walls,  too  .  16.  OU  know,  I've  had  a  disturbing  thought:  he  wasn't  really  your  grand-  father,&quot;  Irene  said,  moving  to  the  door.  &quot;No.  But  we  always  called  him  Grand-  father  Culpepper.  I  always  thought  of  him  as  a  kind  of  grandfather.  My  grand-  mother  always  talked  about  him,  how  he  died  in  the  war,  a  week  before  it  ended.  That's  how  I  know  about  this  Saint-  Julien  place,  where  he  died.  I'v  e  seen  a  photo.  I  recognized  it.&quot;  \xc2\xabYour  grandmother  married  again-&quot;  &quot;In  1927.  Had  another  child-my  mother.&quot;  She  thought,  pushing  out  her  bot-  tom  l  ip.  &quot;I  tell  you  what,  I'll  bring  you  y  our  breakfast.&quot;  She  leaned  forward  and  kissed  me  again,  but  quickly,  on  the  lips.  I  reached  for  her.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Tll  see  you  in  the  morning.  I  have  to  go  now.&quot;  &quot;Black  coffee  and  croissants.  For  two.  What  was  your  disturbing  thought?&quot;  " b"VISIONS  FUGITIVES  &quot;Oh,  yes.  Do  you  realize  something?&quot;  She  was  standing  in  the  doorway,  lean-  ing  back  in  the  doorway,  her  body  canted  backward,  pl  eased  with  herself.  I  could  taste  her  lipstick  on  my  m  outh  .  &quot;If  your  Gra  nd  fat  he  r  Culpepper  hadn't  gotten  himself  kille  d  at  Saint-Ju  l  ien,  you  wouldn't  be  here.  Good  night.&quot;  She  straightened,  showed  me  the  palms  of  he  r  hands  ,  shoulders  shrugging,  eyebrows  raised,  smiling-the  girl  who  had  won  the  prize  with  the  l  ast  question  of  the  quiz  show.  &quot;Black  coffee  and  crois  sants,&quot;  she  sai  d.  &quot;For  two.&quot;  How  was  I  to  know  I  would  never  see  her  again?  I  met  with  the  duty  manager  the  next  day.  He  looked  at  me  patiently,  and  not  at  all  into  leran  tly,  a  s  if  his  trai  nin  g  had  prepared  him  for  all  manner  of  bizarre  reque  sts,  far  more  biza  rre  t  han  mine.  &quot;We  do  have  a  waiter  named  Jay,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;who  works  in  our  coffee  shop.  Jay  Duveen.  But  he's  been  on  vacation  for  four  days.  We  have  no  member  of  staff  with  th  e  name  Ir\xc3\xa9ne.  Not  on  our  computer,  anyway.&quot;  He  pronounced  her  name  &quot;Eye-rain.&quot;  He  smiled;  his  smile  wa  s  not  unkind.  &quot;If  you  could  remember  her  last  name,  sir,  it  wo  uld  be  invaluable.&quot;  Invaluable.  It  would  be  invaluable.  Indeed.  &quot;She's  Swiss,&quot;  I  said  .  &quot;Mid-late  thir-  ties,  tallish,  blond.  I  imagine  a  friend  of  this  Jay'  s.&quot;  &quot;There  are  over  five  hundre  d  employ-  ees  in  this  hotel,  sir.  And  I  can't  begin  to  tell  you  how  many  do  zens  of  tempo-  rary  staff  we  hir  e  on  a  day-by-&quot;  &quot;Y  ou've  been  most  helpful.&quot;  I7.  THE  gap  between  the  farmhouse  and  the  gable  end  of  the  barn  is  wider  than  Bob  Quentin  remembered.  I  pace  it  out-sixteen  yards.  The  farmer  and  his  son  stand  respectfully  some  way  off,  watching  this  strange  middle-  aged  American  investigate  a  banal  an-  gle  of  their  farmyard.  &quot;Come  on,  Bob,  let's  go,  let's  go,  Bob,&quot;  John  Culpep-  per  had  said.  I  step  out  from  the  end  of  the  farmhouse  and  pace  out  eight  steps,  stand  equidistant  between  the  farmhouse  and  the  big  stone  barn.  Beneath  my  feet  is  longish  grass,  muddied,  trampled  some-  what.  Below  me  is  the  cemetery  and  be-  yond  that  are  the  ugly  semi-industrial  outskirts  of  Saint-Julien,  the  garages,  the  discount  stores,  the  agricultural  depots.  The  railway  line  is  there  and  the  slow-  moving  Meuse.  I  suppose,  near  as  dam-  mit,  I  am  standing  on  the  spot  where  John  Culpepper  died.  The  afternoon  light  up  here  by  the  farmhouse  is  pewtery  and  cold,  and  a  tarnished  silver  gleam  comes  off  a  loop  in  the  river  as  the  sky  clears  for  an  in-  stant.  I  say  goodbye  to  the  farmer  and  his  son  (&quot;Mon  grandp\xc3\xa9re,  ah,  a  \xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9  tu\xc3\xa9  ici,  en,  ah,  mille  neuf  cent  dix-huit&quot;)  and  I  walk  down  through  the  dew-heavy  meadow  toward  the  church.  When  I'm  about  two  hundred  yards  from  the  church  I  pause  and  look  back  at  the  farmhouse  and  the  barn  and  the  gap  of  refulgent  white  sky  between  them.  &quot;Over  there,  Bob,  that's  for  us,  buddy.&quot;  Turning  again,  I  see  a  small  figure  com-  ing  round  the  cemetery  wall.  A  woman,  wearing  a  dress-or  a  sweater  and  skirt-  of  the  palest  blue,  striding  out  with  a  long  confident  stride,  setting  off  up  the  hill  toward  me.  A  blond  woman  with  loose  shoulder-length  hair.  She  waves  and  calls,  and  I  think  she  calls  my  name,  but  I  can't  be  sure.  I  can't  be  sure  of  any-  thing  anymore,  because  she  looks  fa-  miliar.  Coming  toward  me  through  the  dew-laden  grass  of  the  meadow  on  this  cool  gray  afternoon  is  a  vision,  a  vision  of  Irene.  18.  &quot;(~  ~NWNleaving  Saint-Julien  take  G.C.  38.  The  road  is  interesting  but  in  bad  repair,  and  care  must  be  taken  for  the  next  few  kms.  The  view  is  impres-  sive.  Hill  238,  across  the  valley,  is  liter-  ally  plowed  up  by  the  shell  fire,  while  not  a  single  tree  is  left  (see  photo,  p.  18).  After  crossing  the  bridge  over  the  Aisne  and  entering  the  town,  notice  the  house  on  the  left,  No.  8.  This  is  the  old  post  house  where  Louis  XVI  was  recognized  during  his  flight  in  1791.  When  the  royal  carriage  stopped  near  this  post  house  in  broad  daylight  the  postmas-  ter  thought  he  recognized  the  King.  His  fellow-citizens  mocked  him,  accusing  him  of  seeing  visions.  The  postmaster,  convinced  he  was  right,  followed  the  car-  riage  all  the  way  to  Varennes,  where  he  caught  it  up,  confirmed  his  suspicions,  andhad  the  royal  family  arrested.  &quot;Several  comfortable  and  reason-  ably  priced  hotels  are  to  be  found  in  the  Rue  Chanzy.&quot;  "