WHOSOEVER  knows  the  folds  and  complexi-  ties  of  his  own  mother's  body,  he  shall  never  die.  Whosoever  knows  the  lati-  tudes  of  his  mother's  body,  whosoever  has  taken  her  into  his  arms  and  im-  mersed  her  baptismally  in  the  first-floor  tub,  lifting  one  of  her  alabaster  legs  and  then  the  other  over  its  lip,  whosoever  has  bathed  her  with  Woolworth's  soaps  in  sample  sizes,  twisted  the  creaky  taps  and  tested  the  water  on  the  inside  of  his  wrist,  and  shovelled  a  couple  of  table-  spoons  of  rose  bath  salts  under  the  bil-  lowing  faucet,  marvelling  at  their  ver-  million  color,  who  has  bent  by  hand  her  sclerotic  limbs,  as  if  reassuring  himself  about  the  condition  of  a  hinge,  and  has  kissed  her  on  the  part  that  separates  the  lobes  of  her  white  hair,  cooed  her  name  while  soaping  underneath  the  breast  where  he  was  once  fed,  breathed  the  ac-  rid  and  dispiriting  stench  of  her  body  while  scrubbing  the  greater  part  of  this  smell  away,  pushed  her  discarded  bra  and  oversized  panties  (scattered  on  the  tile  floor  behind  him)  to  one  side,  away  from  the  water  sloshing  occasionally  over  the  edge  of  the  tub  and  choking  the  runoff  drain,  who  has  wiped  stalactites  of  drool  from  her  mouth  with  a  moist,  ened  violet  washcloth,  swept  back  the  annoying  violet  shower  curtain  in  order  to  lift  up  his  stick-figure  mother  and  bathe  her  ass,  where  a  sweet  and  infan-  tile  shit  sometimes  collects,  causing  her  both  discomfort  and  shame,  who  has  angrily  manhandled  the  dial  on  the  bathroom  radio  (balanced  on  the  toilet  tank)  with  one  wet  hand  in  an  effort  to  find  a  college  station  that  blasts  only  compact-disk  recordings  of  train  acci-  dents  and  large-scale  construction  op-  erations,  selecting  at  last  the  drummers     FICTION  WHOSOEVER  The  language  of  mothers  and  sons.     BY  RICK  MOODY  of  Burundi  on  WUCN  knowing  full  well  that  his  mother  can  brook  only  the  music  of  Tin  Pan  Alley  and  certain  clas-  sics,  and  who  has  then  reacted  guiltily  at  his  own  selfishness  and  tuned  to  some  &quot;lite&quot;  AM  station  featuring  the  greatest  hits  of  swing,  whosoever  has  noticed  in  thecourse  of  his  mission  the  ripe  light  of  early  November  as  it  is  played  out  on  the  bathroom  wall  where  one  of  those  plug-in  electric  candles  with  plastic  base  is  the  only  source  of  illumination,  and  has  waited  in  this  half-light  while  his  mother  takes  her  last  bodily  pleasure-  her  useless  body  floating  in  the  warm,  humid,  even  lapping  of  rose-scented  bathwater,  a  water  which  in  spite  of  its  pleasures  occasionally  causes  transient  scotoma,  ataxia,  difficulty  swallowing,  deafness,  and  other  temporary  dysfunc-  tions  consistent  with  her  ailment-who  has  looked  nonetheless  at  his  pacific  mom's  face  in  that  water  and  known,  in  a  New  Age  kind  ofway,  the  face  he  had  before  he  was  born,  and  who  has  wept  over  his  mother's  condition  while  bath-  ing  her,  silently  weeping,  without  words  or  expressions  of  pity  or  any  nose-blow-  ing  or  -honking,  just  weeping  for  a  sec-  ond  like  a  ninny,  and  who  has  thereaf-  ter  recovered  quickly  and  forcefully  from  despair,  formulating  a  simple  gratitude  for  the  fact  that  he  still  has  a  mother,  but  who  has  nonetheless  wondered  at  the  kind  of  astral  justice  that  has  immobi-  lized  her  thus,  whosoever  has  then  wished  that  the  bath  was  over  already  so  that  he  could  go  and  drink  too  much  at  a  local  bar,  a  bar  where  he  will  encoun-  ter  the  citizens  of  this  his  home  town,  a  bar  where  he  will  see  his  cronies  from  high  school,  those  who  never  left,  those  who  have  stayed  to  become  civic  boost-  ers,  those  who  have  sent  kids  to  the  same  day  school  they  themselves  at-  tended  thirty  years  before,  who  has  looked  at  his  watch  and  yawned,  while  wondering  how  long  he  has  to  let  his  mother  soak,  who  soaped  his  mother  a  second  time,  to  be  sure  that  every  cranny  is  disinfected,  that  every  particle  of  dirt,  every  speck  of  grime,  is  eliminated,  who  stepped  into  a  draining  tub  to  hoist  his  mother  from  it,  as  if  he  were  hoisting  a  drenched  parachute  from  a  streambed,  who  has  balanced  her  on  the  closed  toi-  let  seat  so  that  he  might  dry  her  with  a  towel  of  decadent  thickness  (purple),  who  has  sniffed,  lightly,  undetectably,  the  surface  of  her  skin  as  he  dries  her,  who  has  refused  to  put  his  mother's  spectacles  on  her  face  just  now,  as  he  has  in  the  past  when  conscripted  into  bath-  ing  her,  as  he  ought  to  do  now,  though  in  all  likelihood  she  can  only  make  out  a  few  blurry  shapes  anyway  (at  least  un-  til  the  cooling  of  her  insulted  central  nervous  system),  who  has  wished  to  pro-  long  this  additional  disability,  however,  because  when  she  is  totally  blind  in  ad-  dition  to  being  damn  near  quadriplegic  she  faces  up  to  the  fact  that  her  orient-  ing  skills  are  minimal,  whosoever  has  slipped  his  mother's  undergarment  about  her  legs  and  checked  along  the  way  the  dainty  hairless  passage  into  her  vulva  one  more  time,  because  he  can't  resist  the  opportunity  here  for  know/-  edge,  who  has  gagged  briefly  at  his  own  forwardness,  who  has  strapped  his  mother's  bra  onto  her  and  slipped  a  housedress  over  her  head,  getting  first  one  arm  and  then  the  other  tangled  in  the  neck  hole,  who  has  reached  for  and  then  pulled  the  plug  on  the  radio  be-  cause  the  song  playing  on  it  is  too  sad,  some  terribly  sad  jazz  ballad  with  muted  trumpet,  who  has  put  slippers  on  his  mother's  feet,  left  and  then  right,  fid-  dling  with  her  toes  briefly  first,  simply  to  see  if  there  is  any  sensation  there,  be-  cause  her  wasting  disease  is  character-  ized  by  periods  in  which  some  feeling  or  sensation  suddenly  returns  to  affected  2  extremities  (though  never  all  sensation),  and  likewise  periods  in  which  sensation  &amp;  LP  PAC  is  precipitously  smuffed  out,  who  has  noted  the  complete  lack  of  response  in  his  mother  when  he  pinches  her  big  toe,  and  who  has  noted  this  response  calmly,  who  has  now  finally  set  his  mother's  glasses  on  her  nose  and  adjusted  the  stems  to  make  sure  they  are  settled  com-  fortably  on  her  ears,  who  has  kissed  her  a  second  time  where  her  disordered  hair  is  thinnest,  who  has  taken  her  now  fully  into  his  arms  to  carry  her  to  the  wheel-  chair  in  the  doorway,  whosoever  has  said  to  his  wasting  mom  while  stuttering  mildly  out  of  generalized  anxiety  and  be-  cause  of  insufficient  pause  for  the  inflow  and  outflow  of  breath,  Hey,  Mom,  you  look  p-p-p-p-p-pretty  fabulous  t-t-tonight,  you  look  like  a  million  b-b-bucks,  who  has  said  this  while  unlocking  the  brake  on  the  chair,  then  bringing  the  chair  to  a  stop  in  the  corridor  off  the  kitchen,  be-  neath  a  cheap,  imitation  American  Im-  pressionist  landscape  that  hangs  inthat  hallway,  just  so  that  he  can  hug  his  mom  one  more  time  because  he  hasn't  seen  her  in  months,  because  he  is  a  neglect-  ful  son,  because  her  condition  is  worse,  alwaysworse,  who  has  fantasized  none-  theless  about  lashing  her  chair  toa  tele-  vision  table  on  casters  sothat  he  can  just  roll  her  and  the  idiot  box  with  its  barbi-  turate  programming  around  the  house  without  having  to  talk  to  her  because  he's  been  watching  this  decline  for  two  decades  or  more  and  he's  fed  up  with  comforting  and  self-sacrifice,  the  very  ideas  make  him  sick,  whosoever  has  settled  her  in  the  kitchen  by  the  Formica  table  and  opened  the  refrigerator  looking  for  some  mush  that  will  do  the  job  and  on  which  she  will  not  spend  the  whole  night  choking  as  she  sometimes  does,  so  that  he  then  has  to  use  that  little  medi-  cal  vacuum-cleaner  thing,  that  dental  tool,  to  remove  saliva  and  food  particles  from  her  gullet,  tiny  degraded  hunks  of  minestrone  and  baby  food,  who  has  tripped  briefly  over  his  mother's  chair  trying  to  get  around  it  on  the  way  to  thechocolate  milk  in  the  fridge  and  jammed  his  toe,  Shi¢,  shit,shit,  sorry,  Ma,  who  has  then  changed  his  mind  and  fetched  therein  a  six-pack  of  the  finest  imported  beer  purchased  earlier  at  the  convenience  store  in  town,  and  popped  open  one  can  for  himself  and  one  for  his  mother,  who  has  then  carried  the  beer  to  his  mother  and  fitted  the  end  of  the  straw  between  her  lips,  exhorting  her  to  drink,drink,  while  emptying  his  own  fine  imported  beer  in  a  pair  of  swal-  lows  so  that  he  might  move  on  to  the  next,  who  has  then  hugged  his  mom  (again)  feeling,  in  the  flush  of  processed  barley  and  hops,  that  his  life  is  withal  the  best  of  lives,  full  of  threat  and  bounty,  bad  news  and  good,  affluence  and  penury,  the  sacred  and  the  pro-  fane,  the  masculine  and  the  feminine,  whosoever  has,  in  this  instant  of  sorrow  and  reverence,  Zearned  the  answers  to  why  roses  bloom,  why  wineglasses  sing,  why  human  lips,  when  kissed,  are  so  soft,  and  why  parents  suffer,  he  shall  never  die.  HIS  mother's  voice,  as  she  hears  it  now,  as  she  hears  herself  through  the  dense  matter  of  her  physique,  Hey  there,  cut  it  out,  as  the  beer  pours  from  her  mouth  and  down  a  dish-towel  bib  and  through  the  bib  to  the  front  of  her  housedress,  soaking  through  its  drab  beige  design,  Hey!,  her  voice  is  faint  and  inscrutable,  she  knows,  in  the  autumn  of  these  neuropathogens,  full  of  mum-  blings  and  susurrings,  imprecisions,  nonsense,  phonemic  accidents,  nonsyn-  tactic  vocalizations,  unfinished  thoughts  and  sentences;  her  voice  is  delivered  at  an  improbably  slow  velocity,  and  with  evident  exertion.  She  knows.  She  sends  no  message  but  pathos.  Her  son  doesn't  understand,  for  example,  that  the  can  of  imported  beer,  mostly  emptied  upon  her  now,  and  trickling  along  the  linoleum  floor  toward  one  baseboard,  is  of  no  in-  terest  to  her;  her  son  doesn't  understand  that  she  doesn't  care  for  beer  any  longer,  as  she  never  much  did,  feeling  that  beer  is  the  beverage  of  the  disadvantaged,  not  at  all  the  choice  in  her  day.  The  straw  falls  from  herpursed  lips,  topples  out  of  the  can,  and  cartwheels  across  her  lap,  before  splashing  to  rest  in  the  beer  pool-  ing  by  the  side  of  her  chair.  Her  son  doesn't  understand.  He  glares  at  her  and  carries  the  empty  toa  to-be-recycled  carton  of  reinforced  cardboard  by  the  back  door,  and  begins  again  to  rummage  in  the  refrigerator.  The  reason  shehas  summoned  him-here,  having  sent  home  the  nurse,  Aviva,  for  the  weekend,  is  among  the  sentences  so  far  not  fully  ex-  pressed.  She  is  aware  of  this-as  her  son,  nervously  trying  to  excise  a  hang-  nail  with  his  teeth  (Don't  hang  on  the  door  of  the  refrigerator,  please,  she  wants  107  to  say),  slams  the  door  of  same  and  then  lurches  out  of  the  kitchen,  returning  with  a  bottle  of  bourbon  from  the  bar  in  the  pantry.  Her  son  tries  to  anticipate  her  needs,  to  preempt  her  need  for  words,  to  eliminate  a  language  based  on  need,  and  thus  o  e/iminate  language  (and  with  it  this  drama  of  anguished  commu-  nication).  He  reformulates  all  the  con-  versation  into  simple  yeas  or  nays.  Yow  d-d-don't  want  the  beer?  Are  you  comfort-  able?  Are  you  warm  enough?  D-do  you  want  another  light  on?  Kind  of  d-dark  in  here,  M-m-mom,  isn't  it?  Do  you  need  to  be  changed?  The  nurse  t-take  you  out  to-  day?  However,  even  this  simple,  binary  information  system  is  faulty  and  replete  with  misunderstandings.  Because  her  re-  plies,  mere  probabilities  of  meaning  when  you  get  right  down  to  it,  are  mostly  formulated  through  microgesticu-  lations,  a  semantics  of  the  faintly  con-  veyed  message-the  half-closed  eyelid,  the  pressing  together  of  chapped  or  drooling  lips,  the  head  cocked  slightly  to  one  side,  orthe  epiglottal  choking  sound-those  communications  still  per-  mitted  by  the  encrusted  linkages  of  her  nerves.  This  is  the  foundation  of  her  language  now,  she  is  wellaware,  and  therefore  it's  the  language  of  mothers  and  sons,  the  language  of  love  between  the  generations,  anyway;  all  recollections,  beseechments,  expressions  of  tenderness,  along  with  her  more  mundane  requests  and  importunities,  must  begin  with  this  semantics  of  gesticulation.  Which  is  to  say  that  speech,  for  her,  is  soon  going  to  be  a  thing  of  the  past.  The  speech  act  will  follow,  into  the  gloaming,  her  hand-  writing,  her  perfumed  thank-you  notes,  her  love  letters,  her  journal  entries,  her  business  letters,  even  her  signature,  that  florid  and  legally  binding  evidence  of  self.  Her  speech  will  vanish  as  these  things  have  vanished.  But  as  her  son  spoons  a  few  ounces  of  applesauce  into  a  teacup  for  her,  My  God,  applesauce  is  te-  dious  beyond  behef,  the  constraint  of  si-  lence  is  more  than  she  can  bear,  sud-  denly,  she  just  can't  relax,  and  from  inside  her  she  tries  each  muscle,  each  of  her  smallest  appendages,  the  knuckle  of  atoe  whose  nail  had  once  been  painted  lavender,  a  fingertip  that  once  tickled  the  ivories.  In  the  lockbox  where  she  is  located,  she  focusses  all  remaining  inten-  tion  on  her  arm,  thinking,  feeling,  Dear,  there's  something  I  need  to  tell  you.  Could  108  you  please  settle  down  for  just  a  minute  so  that  I  can  explain  something  to  you?  Could  you  please  stay  clearheaded  long  enough  to  have  a  conversation?  There  is  some-  thing  troubling  I  need  to  ask  of  you.  She  feels  this  arm  moving,  she's  sure  of  it,  but  when  she  looks  (through  trifocal  lenses)  she  can  see  that  it  is  stationary,  this  arm  is  stationary  in  her  lap,  white  downy  fuzz  upon  alabaster  flesh,  this  flesh  wrapped  haphazardly,  loosely  upon  the  ulna.  No  muscle  to  speak  of.  She  tries  to  reach  for  him,  for  her  son,  but  the  arm,  like  the  other,  sits  in  her  lap,  left  hand  holding  the  spastic  right.  The  left  side  of  her,  where  all  the  remain-  ing  movement  has  been  warehoused,  can  still  travel  a  couple  of  centimetres  to  and  fro,  maybe  an  inch,  but  it  seems  to-  day,  when  she  really  needs  it,  to  drowse  and  idle.  When  she  catches  her  next  head  coldorcold  sore  or  is  bitten  by  her  next  mosquito  this  mobility  will-if  the  past  is  any  guide-abandon  her  as  it  has  elsewhere.  That's  how  the  disease  works.  (Here  her  son  sneezes  ominously  and  then  looks  distractedly  around  him  for  a  tissue,  a  strand  of  mucus  yo-yoing  from  his  nose.  He  staggers  toa  dish  towel,  head  tilted  back,  scours  his  upper  lip,  and  then  returns  to  the  applesauce.)  Her  exertion,  though,  and  the  transi-  ent  paralysis  caused  by  the  bath,  leave  her  exhausted,  too  tired,  and  she  doesn't  know  if  she  will  be  able  to  get  tongue  and  teeth  and  breath  around  the  sim-  ple  magic  of  a  few  consonants  and  vow-  els.  The  alphabet  is  all  hairpin  turns  and  pyrotechnical  displays.  She  thinks  if  there  is  in  her  no  evidence  of  any  per-  ceptible  language,  who  is  to  blame  for  that?  If  perception  is  required  for  lan-  guage,  well,  then,  it's  a  pretty  faulty  design.  Inside  her,  language  dances  on.  As  does  memory.  What  a  rich  store  of  memories  she  has,  outside  of  what  might  be  heard  or  seen-as  her  son  fixes  himself  a  drink.  What  a  dance  of  feel-  ings  at  the  sound  of  the  ice  hitting  the  bottom  of  the  tumbler  again.  Her  son  is  like  his  father,  as  so  many  sons  are,  she  thinks,  and  this  association  leads  her  astray,  this  association  collides  with  the  present  and  then  darts  off  parallel,  and  she  follows  the  past,  as  she  is  free  to  do,  until  suddenly  she  comes  up  short  two  years  ago.  To  when  they  gave  her  a  gift.  Her  son  and  her  second  husband.  It  was  Christmastime,  and  they  had  given  her  the  gift,  bought  her  a  notebook-style  com-  puter,  Dell  Corporation  with  PMCIA  Type  II  slot  andYamaha  YM262  twenty-  voice  synthesizer  andMedia  Vision  pro  audio  studio,  as  her  husband  had  de-  scribed  it,  10  be  bundled  with  the  popular  HandiSpeak  software,  mostly  portable,  mostly  wireless,  a  new  prototype,  a  wire-  less  technology,  so  that  the  notebook  could  sit  on  top  of  the  tray  table  on  her  chair  and  broadcast  a  message  back  to  the  desktop  system  (situated  on  her  an-  tique  rolltop).  What  did  the  facsimile  voice  sound  like?  The  voice  of  Handi-  Speak?  The  three  of  them,  she  remem-  bers,  in  the  tableau  around  the  Christ-  mas  tree  in  the  drafty,  poorly  lit  living  room,  ceilings  too  high,  tree  overdeco-  rated,  overtinselled  (by  her  son),  the  three  of  them,  pulling  the  ribbons  from  the  gift,  well,  the  men  pulling  the  rib-  bons  from  it,  herself  simply  watching,  heavy  cables  and  obscure  plugs  and  cords  snaking  out  from  under  hastily  and  poorly  folded  wrapping  paper,  lit-  tle  seraphic  elves  dancing  on  a  purple  field,  pine  needles  and  stray  tinsel  strands  dusting  the  surface  of  black  and  gray  plastic  casing  as  they  dusted  all  the  surfaces  in  the  living  room.  They  looked  at  her  for  approval,  and  be-  cause  back  then,  two  years  ago,  she  still  had  a  little  bit  of  a  nod  left,  she  nod-  ded  noncommittally,  and  her  husband  goaded  on  her  son  as  if  hewere  still  a  boy  and  not  in  his  middle  thirties,  Go  ahead,  boot  it  up,  and  he  did  as  he  was  told,  turned  on  the  monitor,  shreds  of  plastic  tape  still  affixed  to  it  like  sutures,  all  the  gleaming  red  operating  lamps  illumined,  and  there  was  the  Win-  dows  desktop,  appearing  on  the  monitor  like  a  reassuring  first  gasp  from  an  in-  fant,  and  then  the  HandiSpeak  pointer,  with  its  stylized  index  finger  and  rolled-  up  sleeve.  Before  them,  on  the  screen  (they  rolled  her  closer  so  that  she  could  see),  in  an  ornate  computer  font-Gara-  mond  Antiqua-were  the  twenty-six  letters  of  the  English  alphabet,  as  per-  fect  and  simple  as  atoms  must  have  seemed  when  Democritus  (she  thought)  imagined  them,  those  simple  little  squiggles  of  which  arguments  were  formed,  those  squiggles  that  divided  houses  and  united  them,  that  were  ar-  ranged  into  the  words  intoned  over  bap-  tisms  and  deaths.  Those  letters  taken  from  her  by  her  illness.  Her  son  used  the  mouse  apparatus,  the  ergonomically  designed  joystick  requiring  an  absolute  minimum  of  mobility  on  the  part  of  its  hapless  user,  and  clicked  on  the  alpha  of  the  HandiSpeak  alphabet:  a  aback  abandon  abase  abate  abbreviate  ab-  dicate  abdomen  abduct  aberrant  abet  abhor  ability  abject  ablaze  able  abnegate  abnor-  mal  aboard  abode  abolish  A-bomb  abom-  inate  abort  about  above  abrasion  abscess  abscond  absent  absolute  abstain  abstract  absurd  abuse  abusive  abysmal  accelerate  ac-  cent  accept  acceptance  access  accessible  acci-  dent  accommoEate  accost  accretion  accrue  accumulate  accurate  accursed  accuse  ace  ache  achieve  acid  acknowledge  acme  acorn  acoustic  acquisition  acquit  acre  acrimony  acronym  across  act  action  activate  active  actor  actual  actuary  acute  adagio  Adam  adamant  adapt  add  addict  address  adequate  adhere  adjective  adjoin  adjourn  adjunct  ad-  just  ad-lib  administer  admiral  admire  ad-  mit  admonish  adolescent  adore  adorn  adorn-  ment  adrenaline  adulate  adult  adulterate  adultery  advance  adventure  This  forest  of  &quot;A&quot;  words  beautiful  and  strange  as  he  scrolled  through  them.  Words  were  civilization!  And  as  she  gazed  on  them,  on  her  lost  society  (though  it  was  obvious  that  the  HandiSpeak's  vo-  cabulary  had  been  culled  from  one  of  those  inferior  college  dictionaries),  she  was,  of  course,  speechless.  Her  son  eased  the  joystick  through  the  list,  looking  for  le  mot  juste,  the  perfect  arrange-  ment  of  euphony  and  content,  and  he  settled  finally  on  one,  designating  with  the  pointer  the  word  &quot;adore.&quot;  Then  he  selected  the  edit  menu  and  desig-  nated  Go.  Adore,  the  Yamaha  YM262  twenty-  voice  synthesizer's  disembodied  woman's  voice  called  out  from  the  pile  of  space  junk  and  wrapping  paper  on  the  Orien-  tal  carpet  in  the  living  room;  the  self-  assured  and  yet  clinical  voice  sang  out,  as  though  there  were  a  fourth  person  in  the  room,  an  unexpected,  overstaying  holiday  guest.  The  voice,  as  she  recollected  it,  was  like  nothing  so  much  as  thevoice  of  science,  the  voice  of  technological  ad-  vancement,  the  voice  of  lasers  and  digits  and  particle  colliders,  of  ultra-high-fre-  quency  transmissions.  A  woman's  voice  as  men  would  design  it.  There  was  a  perfume  in  the  room  of  dying  pine.  A  rich  smell.  And  there  was  candlelight.  An  intimate  little  fire  in  the  fireplace.  And  then  there  was  this  voice.  The  men  circled  around  her  trying  to  gauge  her  response.  They  were  expectant.  Her  son  knelt  by  the  computer  and  clicked  on  Return  twice  more:  adore,  adore.  The  enormity  of  the  machinery  was  apparent  to  her  at  last,  what  science  could  manage,  which,  in  her  case,  amounted  to  using  fifty  pounds  of  microchips  and  motherboards  and  plastic  chassis  to  enable  her  to  croak  out  WHOSOEVER  a  few  meagre  remarks  in  a  prefabricated  woman's  voice,  not  her  own  voice  at  all,  which  had  been  rich  and  full,  with  vig-  orous  laughter,  ample  melody-Zer  voice  was  gone.  Shehad  been  a  talker.  She  had  been  able  to  put  the  awkward  at  ease;  she  had  been  able  to  comfort  children;  she  had  been  able  to  sweet-talk  truculent  shopkeepers.  But  her  voice  was  gone,  was  consigned  now  to  the  netherworld  of  widowed  socks  and  earrings.  She  began  to  cry,  in  the  living  room,  and  her  tears  were  of  the  specifically  disabled  sort.  They  came  without  pounding  of  fists  or  oaths,  they  simply  fell,  like  summer  drizzle,  no  sound  accompanying  them,  just  their  erratic  progress  along  her  cheeks.  We  tried  to  make  sure  it  was  a  woman's  voice,  her  son  said,  tripping  over  a  coil  of  patch  cords  as  he  made  his  way  to  her  side,  and  then  her  husband  said,  Honey,  you  have  to  make  an  effort,  you  can't  just  let  this  happen  the  way  you're  doing;  we  love  you,  but  you  have  to  make  an  effort.  This  will  help  you  hang  on  to  your  indepen-  dence,  don't  you  see?  Don't  you  want  that?  Don't  you  want  to  be  able  to  get  around  in  daily  life?  I  know  you  do.  We  know  you  do.  We  were  thinking  about  you,  honey;  we  want  the  best  for  you,  and  we  got  the  best,  top  of  the  line,  the  most  advanced  model.  Just  give  it  a  try.  And  her  son  said,  If  it  was  up  to  me,  Ma,  I  would  have  gotten  you  an  Urdu  voice,  or  a  Tibeto-Burman  voice,  or  something,  but  you  can  add  ex-  tra  voices,  Ma,  just  the  way  you  can  add  extra  typefaces  for  your  computer.  We  got  an  upgrade  kit,  right  there  with  the  software.  But  it  wasn't  the  woman's  voice-  that  husky,  dental  assistant's  voice-that  put  another  nail  in  her  pine  box.  That  was  just  the  perceptible  part  of  it.  The  relent-  less  predictability  of  disabling  «  traumas  was  beyond  words,  stretched  out  around  her,  fore  and  aft,  hemming  her  in.  So  why  speak  at  all?  I  will  not,  she  said,  I  will  not  use  it.  I  will  not.  And  those  words  were  properly  transmitted.  Her  husband  and  her  son,  they  heard  her,  though  they  didn't  want  to.  It  put  a  damper  on  the  rest  of  Christmas  Day.  When  Aviva,  the  nurse,  tried  to  feed  her,  at  the  dining-room  table-a  morsel  of  goose  speared  on  the  end  of  a  tine-she  kept  her  mouth  clamped  shut.  Like  an  unruly  brat.  And  since  then  Ae  gif#  had  sat  unused,  its  backlit,  active-matrix     screen  blinking,  waiting  for  the  moment  when  the  affections  and  recollections  of  her  life  would  be  gobbled  by  it  and  converted  into  the  ones  and  zeroes  of  a  sixteen-bit  sound  card.  Well,  as  time  passed,  she  did  use  it  occasionally,  grudg-  ingly.  There  was  the  telephone  message.  She  always  wondered  why  people  didn't  hang  up  on  it:  Helo,  I  am  temporarily  un-  able  to  speak  with  you.  My  assistant  is  available,  however,  if  you  would  care  to  call  again  in  the  early  afternoon.  Have  a  won-  derful  day.  But  mostly  it  was  unused,  her  doppelginger,  though  the  household  current  continued  to  circulate  through  it.  Mostly,  her  double  was  silent-that  is,  until  yesterday.  Thursday.  Which  was  when  Aviva  wheeled  her  up  to  her  desk,  and  helped  her  work  out  the  text  of  her  telephone  call.  She  was  summoning  her  boy.  Her  middle-aged  son.  Her  only  child.  The  son  now  raising  the  stainless,  steel  tablespoon  of  applesauce  toward  her  mouth,  tugging  down  her  chin  with  one  hand,  his  face  close  to  hers  now,  the  bro-  ken  blood  vessels  like  a  contour  map  around  his  nose  and  under  his  eyes,  his  head  shorn  of  all  but  a  faint  shadow  of  his  rich  chestnut  hair,  his  chin,  dis-  gracefully  unshaven,  with  its  mix  of  strawherry-blond  and  gray  hairs,  his  awkward  eyeglasses,  from  the  nineteen  fifties  (she  guesses),  his  bloodshot  eyes,  oh,  what  has  happened  to  him!  How  has  he  begun  so  suddenly  to  grow  older?  When  he  speaks  at  last,  when  he  emerges  from  distrac-  tion  to  notice  her  and  to  see  in  certain  gesficulations  the  fact  that  an  urgency  is  upon  her  now,  What  is  it,  Ma?  What's  wrong?  Is  there  something  you  want  to  say?,  when  he  presses  his  probably  unwashed  ear,  clotted  with  ear-  wax,  presses  it  close  to  her  lips,  close  enough  to  graze  her  lips,  en  she  begins  to  feel  the  reservoir  of  panic  in  her,  the  panic  that  is  like  a  second  inhab-  itant  in  this  loose  garment  body,  the  panic  that  is  never  distant,  the  panic  she  mostly  manages  to  put  aside,  but  which  is  now  swelling  in  her  like  a  miraculous  pregnancy,  Oh  darling,  she  says  to  her  son,  whisper-  ing  the  words  as  best  she  can,  a  minute  elapsing  before  she  can  complete  the  thought,  in  the  stillness  of  the  kitchen,  at  the  begmnmg  of  night,  with  autumn  announcing  winter,  your  mother  is  in  a  mar-  wvellously  big  parcel  of  trouble.  I  am  alone.  