  MY  FATHER  ON  THE  VERGE  OF  DISGRACE  T  filtered  even  into  my  childhood  dreams,  the  fear.  The  fear  that  he  would  somehow  fall  from  his  pre-  carious  ledge  of  respect-  ability,  a  ledge  where  we  all  stood  with  him.  &quot;We  all&quot;:  his  dependents-my  mother,  her  parents,  my-  self.  The  house  we  lived  in  was  too  big  for  us:  my  grandfather  had  bought  it  in  1922,  when  he  felt  prosper-  ous  enough  to  retire.  Within  the  decade,  the  stock-market  crash  took  all  his  sav-  ings.  He  sat  in  one  corner  of  the  big  house,  the  little  &quot;sunroom&quot;  that  looked  toward  the  front  yard,  the  hedge,  and  the  street  with  its  murmuring  traffic.  My  grandmother,  bent  over  and  crippled  by  arthritis,  hobbled  about  in  the  kitchen  and  out  into  the  back  yard,  where  she  grew  peas  and  kept  chickens.  My  mother  had  her  nook  upstairs,  at  a  little  desk  with  wicker  sides,  where  shedid  not  like  to  be  interrupted,  and  my  father  was  generally  out  somewhere  in  the  town.  He  was  a  tall,  long-legged  man  who  needed  to  keep  moving.  The  year  I  was  born,  he  had  lost  his  job,  as  salesman  in  the  mid-Atlantic  territory  for  a  line  of  quality  English  china.  Only  after  three  years-anxious  years  for  him,  but  for  me  just  a  few  smells  and  radiant  visions  re-  tained  by  my  infant  memory-did  he  succeed  in  getting  another  job,  as  a  high-school  teacher.  It  was  as  a  school-  teacher  that  I  always  knew  him.  Wear-  ing  a  suit,  his  shirt  pocket  holding  a  pack  of  cigarettes  and  a  mechanical  pen-  cil  and  a  fountain  pen,  he  loomed  to  me  as  a  person  of  eminence  in  the  town;  it  was  this  sense  of  his  height  that  led,  per-  haps,  to  my  fear  that  he  would  somehow  topple.  One  of  my  dreams,  borrowing  some  Depression  imagery  from  the  cartoons  in  the  newspaper,  had  him  clad  in  a  bar-  rel  and,  gray-faced,  being  harried  down  the  Town  Hall  steps  by  the  barking  ap-  paritions  of  local  officialdom.  The  crowd     BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  began  to  throw  things,  and  my  attempt  at  explaining,  at  pleading  for  him,  got  caught  up  in  my  throat.  In  this  present  day  of  strip  malls  and  towns  that  are  mere  boundaries  on  a  developer's  map,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  the  core  of  author-  ity  that  existed  then  in  small  towns,  at  least  in  the  view  of  a  child  -the  power  of  righteousness  and  enforcement  that  radiated  from  the  humorless  miens  of  the  central  men.  They  were  not  neces-  sarily  officials-the  town  was  too  small  to  have  many  of  those.  And  the  police  chief  was  a  perky,  comically  small  man  who  inspired  fear  not  even  in  first-  graders,  as  he  halted  traffic  to  let  them  cross  the  street  to  the  elementary  school.  But  certain  local  merchants,  a  clergyman  or  two,  the  undertaker  whose  green-  awninged  mansion  dominated  the  main  intersection,  across  from  a  tavern  and  a  drugstore,  not  to  mention  the  druggist  and  the  supervising  principal  of  the  school  where  my  father  taught,  pro-  jected  an  aura  of  potential  condemna-  tion  and  banishment.  To  have  this  power,  you  had  to  have  been  born  in  the  town,  or  at  least  in  the  locality,  and  my  father  had  not  been.  His  accent,  his  stride  were  slightly  dif  ferent.  This  was  [REDACTED],  and  he  was  from  New  Jersey.  My  mother  came  from  the  area,  and  she  may  have  mar-  ried  my  fatherin  hopes  of  escaping  it.  But  the  land  of  six  decades  ago  was  less  permeable  than  it  is  now;  it  exerted  a  grip.  Fate,  or  defeat,  returned  my  par-  ents  to  my  grandfather's  big  house,  a  house  where  only  I,  growing  up  day  by  day,  felt  perfectly  at  home.  I  was  proud  of  my  schoolteacher  fa-  ther.  If  his  suit  was  out  of  press,  and  his  necktie  knotted  awry,  I  was  too  new  to  the  world  to  notice.  He  combed  his  hair  back  and,  in  the  style  of  his  genera-  tion,  parted  it  near  the  middle.  In  our  kitchen,  he  would  bolt  his  orange  juice  (squeezed  on  one  of  those  ribbed  glass  sombreros  and  then  poured  off  through  a  strainer)  and  his  toast  (the  toaster  a  simple  tin  box,  a  kind  of  little  hut  with  slit  and  slanted  sides,  that  rested  over  a  gas  burner  and  browned  one  side  of  the  bread,  in  stripes,  at  a  time),  and  then  he  would  stride,  so  hurriedly  that  his  neck-  tie  flew  back  over  his  shoulder,  down  through  our  yard,  past  the  grapevines  hung  with  buzzing  Japanese-becetle  traps,  to  the  yellow  brick  building,  with  its  tall  smokestack  and  wide  playing  fields,  where  he  taught.  Though  the  town  had  some  hosiery  and  hat  factories  tucked  around  in  its  blocks  of  row  houses,  the  high  school  was  the  most  impressive  building  on  my  horizon.  To  me,  it  was  the  center  of  the  universe.  I  enjoyed  the  gleams  of  recognition  that  fell  to  me  from  my  father's  high  visibil-  ity.  His  teaching  colleagues  greeted  me  on  the  street  with  a  smile;  other  adults  seemed  to  know  me  and  included  me  in  a  sort  of  ironical  forbearance.  He  was  not  a  drinker-his  anxious  stomach  was  too  tender  for  that-but  he  had  the  waywardly  sociable  habits  of  a  drinker.  He  needed  people,  believed  in  their  wis-  dom  and  largesse,  as  none  of  the  rest  of  us  who  lived  in  the  house  did:  four  re-  cluses  and  an  extrovert.  Imitating  my  mother,  I  early  developed  a  capacity  to  entertain  myself,  with  paper  and  the  im-  ages  it  bore.  When  school-the  elemen-  tary  school,  at  the  other  end  of  town,  along  the  main  street-took  me  into  its  classes,  I  felt,  in  relation  to  my  class-  mates,  slightly  timid.  He  called  me  &quot;young  America,&quot;  as  if  I  were  more  bumptious  than  I  was.  He  pushed  me  about  the  town  with  a  long  stick  he  had  made,  whose  fork  gripped  the  back  of  my  red  wagon,  sothat  all  I  had  to  do  was  sit  in  it  and  steer.  No  more  births  followed  mine.  My  bed-  room  was  a  narrow  back  room,  with  a  bookshelf  and  some  framed  illustrations,  by  Vernon  Grant,  of  nursery  rhymes;  it  (é;  overlooked  the  back  yard  and  adjoined  2  my  parents'  bedroom.  I  could  hear  them  Z  talk  at  night;  even  when  the  words  were  8  indistinct,  the  hiss  of  unhappiness,  of  4  obscure  hot  pressures,  came  through  the  walls.  &quot;That  son  ofa  bitch,&quot;  my  father  would  say,  of  some  man  whose  name  I  had  missed.  &quot;Out  to  get  me,&quot;  I  would  hear.  Who  could  this  enemy  be,  I  would  wonder,  while  my  mother's  higher,  more  rhythmic  voice  would  try  to  seal  over  the  wound,  whatever  it  was,  and  I  would  be  lulled  into  sleep,  surrounded  by  my  toys,  my  Big  Little  Books,  my  stacked  drawings  crayoned  on  the  rough  dun-colored  paper  supplied  at  school,  the  Vernon  Grant  figures  presiding  above  the  bookshelf-a  band  of  cheer-  ful,  long-nosed  angels  who  livedin  shoes  and  tumbled  downhill.  Paper,  I  felt,  would  protect  me.  Sometimes  in  my  parents'  room  there  were  quarrels,  stifled  sobs  from  my  melodious  mother  and  percussive  rumbling  from  my  fa-  ther;  these  troubles  were  like  a  thunder-  storm  that  whipped  and  thumped  the  house  for  half  an  hour  and  then  rolled  off  into  the  sky  to  the  east.  One  center  of  trouble,  I  remember,  was  a  man  called  Otto  Werner,  which  Otto  pronounced  as  if  the  &quot;W&quot;  were  a  &quot;V.&quot;  Among  the  [REDACTED]  Germans,  he  was  exceptionally  German,  with  a  toothbrush  mustache,  a  malicious  twin-  kle  in  his  eye,  and  an  erect,  jerky  way  of  carrying  himself.  He,  too,  was  a  schoolteacher,  but  not  in  our  town's  sys-  tem.  He  and  my  father,  on  weekends  and  in  the  summer,  travelled  to  Phila-  delphia,  an  hour  and  a  half  away,  to  ac-  cumulate  credits  toward  a  master's  de-  gree.  Having  a  master's  would  improve  my  father's  salary  by  a  few  sorely  needed  dollars.  The  first  scandal  that  attached  itself  to  Otto  concerned  his  standing  on  the  steps  of  some  building  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  and  shouting,  &quot;He?/,  Hitler!&quot;  The  United  [REDACTED]  was  not  yet  in  the  war,  and  a  pro-German  Bund  openly  met  in  our  local  city  of  Brewer,  but  still  it  was  an  eccentric  and  danger-  ous  thing  to  do.  Otto  was,  my  father  ad-  mitted,  &quot;a  free  spirit.&quot;  But  he  owned  a  car,  and  we  did  not.  We  once  did-a  green  Model  A  that  figures  in  my  earli-  est  memories-but  somewhere  in  the  thirties  it  disappeared.  In  a  town  so  compact  one  could  walk  anywhere  within  twenty  minutes,  and  in  a  region  webbed  with  trolley  tracks  and  train  tracks  the  deprivation  did  not  seem  radi-  cal.  Once  the  war  came,  even  those  who  owned  cars  couldn't  drive  them.  A  worse  scandal  than  &quot;Heil,  Hitler!&quot;  had  to  do  with  a  girl  at  the  high  school.  My  father  carried  a  few  notes  from  Otto  to  her,  and  it  turned  out  they  were  love  notes,  and  he  was  aiding  and  abetting  the  corruption  of  a  minor.  The  girl's  parents  got  involved,  and  members  of  the  school  board  were  informed.  Not  only  could  my  father  get  fired,  I  under-  stood;  he  could  go  to  jail  for  his  part  in  this  scandal.  As  I  lay  in  my  bed  at  night  I  could  hear  my  parents  talking  in  a  ragged,  popping  murmur  like  the  noise  of  something  frying;  I  could  feel  the  heat,  and  my  father  twisting  in  his  agony,  and  the  other  adults  in  the  house  holding  their  breath.  Had  there  been  trysts,  andhad  my  father  carried  the  notes  that  arranged  them?  It  was  like  him;  he  was  always  doing  people  unnec-  essary  favors.  Once  he  walked  out  into  a  snowstorm  to  go  and  apologize  to  a  boy  in  one  of  his  classes  with  whom  he  had  been  impatient,  or  sarcastic.  &quot;I  hate  sarcasm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Everybody  in  this  part  of  the  world  uses  it,  but  it  hurts  like  hell  to  be  on  the  receiving  end.  Poor  kid,  I  thought  he  stunk  the  place  up  to  get  my  goat,  but  upon  sober  reflection  I  believe  it  was  just  one  more  case  of  hon-  est  stupidity.&quot;  His  subject  was  chem-  istry,  with  its  many  opportunities  for  spillage,  breakage,  smells,  and  small  explosions.  The  scandal  with  the  girl  somehow  diedaway.  Perhaps  the  notes  he  carried  were  innocent.  Perhaps  he  persuaded  the  principal  and  the  school  board  that  he,  at  least,  was  innocent.  There  had  been  a  romance,  because  within  a  year  or  two  the  girl,  graduated  now,  married  Otto.  The  couple  moved  to  the  South-  west  but  occasionally  would  visit  my  parents.  When  my  mother  became  a  widow,  living  alone  in  a  farmhouse  ten  miles  from  the  town,  the  couple  would  visit  her  as  part  of  their  annual  Eastern  pilgrimage.  Though  twenty  years  youn-  ger,  Mrs.  Werner  went  plump  early,  and  her  hair  turned  white,  so  the  age  differ-  ence  became  less  and  less  noticeable.  They  had  bought  a  Winnebago  and  would  pull  up  alongside  the  barn  and  Otto  would  limp  across  the  yard  to  greet  my  mother  merrily,  that  twinkle  still  in  his  eye.  My  mother  would  be  merry  in  turn,  having  forgotten,  it  seemed,  all  the  woe  he  once  brought  us.  In  trying  to  re-  call  the  heat  in  the  old  house,the  terror  he  had  caused,  I  have  forgotten  the  81  most  interesting  thing  about  him:  he  had  only  one  leg.  The  other  was  a  beige  prosthesis  that  gave  him  his  jerky  walk,  a  sharp  hitch  as  if  he  were  tossing  some-  thing  with  his  right  hip.  Remembering  this  makes  him  seem  less  dangerous:  how  could  the  world  ever  punish  a  one-  legged  man  for  shouting  &quot;Heil,  Hitler!&quot;  or  for  falling  in  love  with  a  teen-ager  from  another  school  system?  P  I  'HE  country  ran  on  dimes  and  quar-  ters.  A  hamburger  cost  ten  cents,  and  I  paid  ten  cents  to  get  into  the  movie  house,  until  a  war  tax  made  it  eleven.  The  last  year  of  the  war,  a  month  before  V-E  Day  and  Hitler's  vanishing-pouf!-from  his  under-  ground  bunker,  I  turned  thirteen,  and  old  Mrs.  Naftzinger  in  the  little  glass  booth  somehow  knew  it.  An  adult  ticket  cost  twenty-seven  cents,  and  that  was  too  much  for  me  to  go  twice  a  week.  The  economics  of  my  grandfather's  house  seemed  simple:  my  father  brought  home  his  pay  every  other  week  in  a  brown  envelope,  and  the  money  was  dumped  in  a  little  red-and-white  recipe  box  that  sat  on  top  of  the  icebox.  Any-  body  who  needed  money  fished  it  out  of  the  box;  each  lunchtime  I  was  allowed  six  cents,  a  nickel  and  a  penny,  to  buy  a  Tastykake  on  the  way  back  to  elemen-  tary  school.  My  grandfather  did  the  packaged-food  shopping  at  Tyse  Seg-  ner's  store,  a  few  houses  away.  Tyse,  who  livedin  the  back  rooms  and  up-  stairs  with  his  wife,  was  a  man  of  my  grandfather's  generation-a  rather  ill-  tempered  one,  I  thought,  considering  all  the  candy  he  had  behind  his  counter  and  could  eatfor  free  whenever  he  wanted.  My  mother,  usually,  bought  fresh  meat  and  vegetables  at  Bud  Hof-  fert's  Acme,  two  blocks  away,  past  the  ice  plant,  up  on  Second  Street.  Bud  wore  rimless  glasses  and  a  bloody  apron.  My  grandmother  did  the  cooking  but  never  shopped;  nor  did  my  father-he  just  brought  home,  as  he  said,  &quot;the  ba-  con.&quot;  The  little  tin  recipe  box  never  be-  came  quite  empty;  I  never  had  to  do  without  a  noontime  Tastykake.  I  moved  a  kitchen  chair  next  to  the  icebox  to  stand  on  while  I  fished  the  nickel  and  the  penny  from  the  box,  beneath  a  clut-  ter  of  folded  dollars  and  scattered  quar-  ters.  When  the  tin  bottom  began  to  show,  more  coins  and  bills  somehow  ap-  peared,  to  tide  us  over,  and  these,  it    slowly  dawned  on  me,  wereborrowed  from  the  high-school  sports  receipts.  My  father  had  charge  of  them,  as  an  extracurricular  duty:  at  football  games  he  would  sit  at  a  gap  in  the  ropes,  sell-  ing  tickets  and  making  change  from  a  flat  green  box  whose  little  compartments  were  curved  to  let  your  fingers  scoop  up  the  coins.  At  basketball  games  he  would  sit  with  the  box  at  a  little  table  just  in-  side  the  school's  mighty  front  portals,  across  from  the  glass  case  of  silver  tro-  phies  and  around  thecorner  from  the  supervising  principal's  office.  The  green  box  would  come  home  with  him,  many  nights,  for  safekeeping.  The  tickets  fas-  cinated  me-the  great  wheels  of  them,  as  wide  as  dinner  plates  but  thicker.  They  came  in  two  distinct  colors,  blue  for  adults  and  orange  for  students,  and  each  ticket  was  numbered.  It  was  an-  other  kind  of  money.  Each  rectangle  of  the  thin,  tightly  coiled  cardboard  pos-  sessed,  at  the  right  time,  a  real  value,  brought  into  play  by  a  sports  event;  money  and  time  and  cardboard  and  people's  desire  to  see  were  magically  in-  terwoven.  My  father  was  magical,  con-  verting  into  dollars  and  quarters  and  dimes  the  Tuesday-  and  Friday-night  basketball  crowds  and  the  outdoor  crowd  that  straggled  out  of  the  town's  streets  onto  the  football  field  on  Satur-  day  afternoons.  (It  was  easy  to  sneak  un-  derthe  ropes,  but  many  grownups  didn't  bother,  and  solemnly  paid.)  The  tickets,  numbered  into  the  hundreds,  were  worth  nothing  until  my  father  presided  athis  little  table.  He  always  made  the  balance  right  when  he  got  his  paycheck,  or  so  he  assured  my  mother.  Shehad  begun  to  get  alarmed,  and  her  alarm  spread  to  me.  My  memories  of  their  conversations,  the  pressure  of  them,  have  me  leaning  my  face  against  the  grain  of  the  wooden  icebox,  azinc-lined  cabinet  whose  dig-  nity  dominated  our  kitchen  as  it  majes-  tically  digested,  day  after  day,  a  succes-  sion  of  heavy  ice  blocks  fetched  ina  straw-lined  truck  and  carried  with  tongs  into  the  house  by  a  cheerful  man  with  a  leathern  apron  down  his  back,  to  ward  off  the  wet  and  the  chill.  I  could  feel  the  coldness  on  my  cheek  through  the  zinc  and  wood  as  my  parents'  faces  revolved  above  me  and  their  voices  clung  to  my  ears.  &quot;Embezzlement,&quot;  my  mother  said,  a  word  I  knew  only  from  the  radio.  &quot;What  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  10,  1997  good  will  you  be  to  any  of  us  in  jail?&quot;  &quot;I  make  it  square,  right  to  the  penny.  Square  on  the  button,  every  other  week,  when  I  get  my  envelope.&quot;  &quot;Suppose  Danny  Haas  some  week  decides  to  deposit  the  receipts  on  a  Fri-  day  instead  of  a  Monday?  He'd  ask,  and  you'd  be  short.&quot;  Danny  Haas,  1  knew,  taught  senior-  high  math  and  headed  up  the  school  athletics  program;  a  short  man  who  smoked  cigars  and  wore  suits  withbroad  stripes,  he  nevertheless  wasone  of  the  righteous  at  the  town's  core.  My  tall  fa-  ther  and  he  sometimes  clowned  to-  gether,  because  of  their  height  discrep-  ancy,  but  it  was  clear  to  me  who  had  the  leverage,  the  connections,  the  power  to  bring  down.  &quot;He  won't,  Lucy,&quot;  my  father  was  say-  ing.  Whenever  he  used  my  mother's  name,  it  was  a  sign  that  he  wanted  to  end  the  conversation.  &quot;Danny's  like  all  these  Dutchmen,  a  slave  to  habit.  Anyway,  we're  not  talking  Carnegie-  Mellon  bucks  here,  we're  talking  rela-  tive  peanuts.&quot;  How  much,  indeed?  A  ten-dollar  bill,  in  those  days,  looked  like  a  fortune  to  me;  I  never  saw  a  twenty,  not  even  when  the  recipe  box  was  fullest.  &quot;Nobody  will  think  it's  peanuts  if  it's  missing.&quot;  My  father  became  angry,  as  much  as  he  ever  did.  &quot;What  can  I  do,  Lucy?  We  live  poor  as  dump  dogs  anyway.&quot;  The  phrase  &quot;dump  dogs&quot;  had  to  be  one  he  had  brought  from  his  other  life,  when  he  lived  in  another  state  and  was  a  boy  like  me.  He  went  on,  venting  grievances  sel-  dom  expressed  in  my  hearing.  &quot;We've  got  a  big  place  here  to  heat.  We  can't  all  go  naked.  The  kid  keeps  growing.  My  brown  suit  is  wearing  out.  Mom  does  what  she  can  in  her  garden,  but  I've  got  five  mouths  to  feed.&quot;  He  called  my  grandmother  Mom  andexempted  her,  I  felt,  from  the  status  of  pure  burden.  My  mother's  work  at  her  wicker  desk  produced  no  money,  my  grandfather  in  his  pride  had  bought  toobig  a  house,  and  I-I  didn't  even  go  out  and  shovel  snow  for  neighbors  in  a  storm,  because  I  was  so  susceptible  to  colds.  My  father  was  warming  to  his  subject.  &quot;Count  'em-five!  Nihi/  ex  nihilo,  Dad  used  to  say.&quot;  Dad  was  his  own  father,  dead  be-  fore  I  was  born.  &quot;You  don'tget  some-  thing  for  nothing,&quot;  he  translated.  &quot;There  are  no  free  rides  in  this  life.&quot;  My  mother  feebly  used  the  word  &quot;economize,&quot;  another  radio  word,  but  even  I  could  feel  it  was  hopeless;  how  could  I  go  without  my  Tastykake,  when  no-  body  else  in  my  class  was  that  poor?  My  father  had  to  go  on  stealing  from  the  school,  and  would  someday  be  chased  in  his  barrel  down  the  Town  Hall  steps.  URING  the  war  things  eased  a  bit.  Men  were  scarce,  and  he  got  summer  jobs  that  did  not  aggravate  his  hernia;  he  was  made  a  timekeeper  for  a  railroad  work  crew.  The  tracks  were  humming  and  needed  to  be  kept  up.  In  the  history  books  our  time  in  the  war  looks  short:  less  than  four  years  from  Pearl  Harbor  to  V-J  Day.  Yet  it  seemed  to  go  on  forever,  while  I  inched  up  through  the  grades  of  elementary  school.  It  became  impossible  to  imagine  a  world  without  thewar,  without  the  big  head-  lines  and  the  ration  tokens  and  cou-  pons  and  the  tin-can  drives  and  Bing  Crosby  and  Dorothy  Lamour  selling  War  Bonds  at  rallies.  I  reached  seventh  grade,  a  junior-high  grade,  housed  in  the  grand  yellow  brick  building  where  my  father  taught.  I  was  too  young  for  chemistry,  but  there  was  no  missing  his  high  head  and  long  stride  in  the  halls.  Sharing  the  waxed,  locker-lined  halls  with  him  all  day,  being  on  his  work  premises,  as  it  were,  did  not  eradicate  my  anxiety  that  he  would  be  brought  low.  The  perils  surrounding  him  became  realer  to  me.  We  students  filled  the  halls  with  a  ruth-  less,  trampling  sound.  My  father  was  a  notoriously  poor  disciplinarian;  he  was  not  German  enough,  and  took  too  little  pleasure  in  silence  and  order.  Entire  classes,  rumor  reached  me  from  the  up-  per  grades,  were  wasted  in  monologues  in  which  he  tried  to  impart  the  lessons  that  life  had  taught  him-you  don't  get  something  for  nothing,  there  are  no  free  rides.  These  truths  were  well  illustrated  in  the  workings  of  chemistry,  so  perhaps  he  wasn't  as  far  off  the  point  as  the  stu-  dents  thought.  They  played  a  game  of  getting  him  going  and  thus  sparing  themselves  classwork  for  the  day.  He  would  suddenly  throw  a  blackboard  eraser  up  toward  the  ceiling  and  with  a  boyish  deftness  catch  it,  saying,  &quot;What  goes  upmust  come  down.&quot;  He  told  the  momentarily  silenced  students,  &quot;You're  on  top  of  Fools'  Hill  now,  but  you'll  come  down  the  other  side.&quot;  He  did  not  conceal  from  them  his  interest  in  the  fruitful  possibilities  of  disorder;  so  many  great  chemical  discoveries,  after  all,  were  accidents.  He  loved  chemistry.  &quot;Water  is  the  universal  solvent,&quot;  I  often  heard  him  pronounce,  as  if  it  were  a  truly  consoling  formula,  like  &quot;This,  too,  will  pass  away.&quot;  Who  is  to  say  his  mes-  sage  did  not  come  through  all  the  classroom  confusion-the  notes  being  passed,  the  muttered  asides  of  the  class  clown,  the  physical  tussles  at  the  rear  of  the  room?  He  was  the  faculty  clown,  to  my  dis-  comfort.  His  remarks  in  assembly  always  got  the  students  laughing,  and,  in  the  spring,  in  the  annual  faculty  assembly  program,  he  participated  in  a,  to  me,  horrifying  performance  of  the  Pyramus-  and-Thisby  episode  of  &quot;A  Midsum-  mer  Night's  Dream.&quot;  Gotten  up  as  a  gawky,  dirndl-clad,  lipsticked  Thisby,  in  a  reddish-blond  wig  with  pigtails,  my  father  climbed  a  little  stepladder  to  reach  the  chink  in  the  wall.  The  Wall  was  played  by  the  thickset  football  coach,  Tank  Geiger,  wearing  a  football  helmet  and  a  sheet  painted  to  resemble  masonry.  I  had  noticed  in  the  privacy  of  our  home  how  my  father's  legs,  especially  where  his  stockings  rubbed,  were  virtu-  ally  hairless  compared  with  those  of  other  men.  Now  the  sight  of  his  hairless  legs,  bare  for  all  to  see,  as  he  mounted  the  ladder-the  students  around  me  howling  at  every  mincing  step  he  took  upward-made  me  think  his  moment  to  topple  had  come.  Mr.  Geiger  held  up  at  arm's  height  a  circle-forming  thumb  and  forefinger  to  represent  the  chink  in  the  wall;  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  wall,  little  Mr.Haas  climbed  his  ladder  a  step  higher  than  my  father,  to  put  his  face  on  the  same  level.  &quot;O,  kiss  me,&quot;  he  recited,  &quot;through  the  hole  of  this  vild  wall.&quot;  Mr.  Geiger  mugged  in  mock  affront,  and  the  auditorium  rocked.  My  father,  in  his  high  Thisby  voice,  answered,  &quot;I  kiss  the  wall's  hole,  not  your  lips  at  [REDACTED];  and  his  and  Mr.  Haas's  faces  slowly  met  through  the  third  teacher's  fingers.  The  screams  of  disbelieving  hilarity  around  me  made  my  ears  burn.  This  had  to  be  ruinous,  I  thought.  This  was  worse  than  any  of  my  dreams.  But  the  next  day  my  father  loped  through  the  halls  with  his  head  high,  his  hair  parted  in  the  middle  as  usual,  in  his      usual  shiny  suit,  and  school  life  con-  tinued.  &quot;Burning,&quot;  went  another  of  his  chemical  slogans,  &quot;destroys  nothing.  It  just  shuffles  the  molecules.&quot;  AF  the  war's  end,  we  moved  from  the  house  that  was  toobig  to  a  small  farmhouse  ten  miles  away.  It  was  my  mother's  idea  of  economizing.  The  an-  tique  small-town  certainties  I  had  grown  up  among  were  abruptly  left  behind.  No  more  wood  icebox,  no  more  tin  toaster,  no  more  Vernon  Grant  nursery  rhymes  framed  above  my  bed,  no  more  simply  running  down  through  the  yard  to  the  eighth  grade.  My  father  and  I  were  thrown  together  in  a  state  of  daily  exile,  getting  into  the  car-we  had  to  acquire  a  car-before  the  frost  had  left  the  wind-  shield  and  returning,  many  nights,  after  dusk,  our  headlights  the  only  ones  on  the  pitted  dirt  road  home.  He  still  took  the  ticket  money  at  the  basketball  games  and,  as  another  extracurricular  duty,  coached  the  swimming  team,  which,  since  the  school  had  no  pool,  practiced  at  the  Y.M.C.A.  in  the  city  of  Brewer's  dingy  and  menacing  downtown.  The  ten-year-old  car  we  acquired  kept  giv-  ing  us  adventures:  flat  tires,  broken  ax-  les,  fearful  struggles  to  put  on  tire  chains  at  the  base  of  a  hill  in  the  midst  of  a  snowstorm.  We  sometimes  didn't  make  it  home,  and  walked  and  hitchhiked  to  shelter-the  homes  of  fellow-teachers,  or  what  my  father  cheerfully  called  &quot;fleabag&quot;  hotels.  We  became,  during  those  years  of  joint  commuting,  a  kind  of  team-partners  in  peril,  fellow-sufferers  on  the  edge  of  disaster.  It  was  dreadful  but  somehow  authentic  to  be  stuck  in  a  stalled  car  with  only  four  dollars  between  us,  in  the  age  before  AT.M.s.  It  was-at  least  afterward,  in  the  hotel,  where  my  father  had  success-  fully  begged  the  clerk  to  call  Danny  Haas  to  vouch  for  us-bliss,  a  rub  against  ba-  sic  verities,  an  instance  of  survival.  I  stood  in  sardonic,  exasperated  silence  during  his  conversations  with  hotel  clerks,  garage  mechanics,  luncheonette  waitresses,  strangers  on  the  street,  none  of  whom  were  accustomed  to  encountering  such  a  high  level  of  trust.  It  was  no  mistake  that  he  had  wound  up  in  education;  he  believed  that  everyone  had  something  to  teach  him.  His  suppliant  air  humiliated  me,  but  I  was  fourteen,  fifteen;  I  was  at  his  mercy,  and     THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  10,  1997  he  was  at  the  mercy  of  the  world.  I  saw  him  rebuffed  and  misunderstood.  Flecks  of  foam  would  appear  at  the  corners  of  his  mouth  as  he  strove  to  communicate;  in  my  help-  less  witnessing  I  was  half  blinded  by  im-  patience  and  what  now  seems  a  mist  of  love,  a  pity  bulging  toward  him  like  some  embarrassing  warpage  of  my  own  face.  He  enjoyed  human  contact  even  at  its  least  satisfactory,  it  slowly  came  to  me.  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  see  what  he  would  say,&quot;  he  would  explain  after  some  futile  tussle  with,  say,  the  policeman  in  charge  of  the  municipal  garage  to  which  our  non-starting  car  had  been  towed,  parked  as  it  had  been  in  a  loading  zone  by  the  railroad  platform;  the  cop  refused  to  grasp  the  distinction  between  my  fa-  ther's  good  intentions  and  the  car's  me-  chanical  misbehavior.  &quot;I  used  to  land  in  the  damnedest  little  towns,&quot;  he  would  tell  me,  of  his  days  selling  china.  &quot;In  upstate  New  York,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  wherever,  you'd  just  get  off  the  train  with  your  sample  case  and  go  into  any  store  where  you  saw  china  and  try  to  talk  them  into  carrying  your  line,  which  usually  cost  a  bit  more  than  the  lines  they  had.  You  never  knew  whatwould  happen.  Some  of  them,  in  these  dumps  at  the  back  of  nowhere,  would  come  up  with  the  most  surprising  orders-tall  orders.  This  was  before  the  Depression  hit,  of  course.  I  mean,  it  hit  in  ©29,  but  there  was  a  grace  period  before  it  took  hold.  And  then  you  were  born.  Young  America.  Your  mother  and  I,it  knocked  us  for  a  loop,  we  had  never  fig-  ured  on  ourselves  as  parents.  I  don't  know  why  not-it  happens  all  the  time.  Mak-  ing  babies  is  the  No.  1  pri-  ority  for  human  nature.  When  I'm  standing  up  there  trying  to  pound  the  periodic  table  into  their  jiggling  heads  I  sometimes  think,  These  poor  devils,  they  just  want  to  be  making  babies.&quot;  My  own  developing  baby-making  yen  took  the  form,  first,  of  learning  to  smoke.  You  couldn't  get  anywhere,  in  the  high-school  society  of  the  late  for-  ties,  without  smoking.  I  had  bought  a  pack-Old  Golds,  I  think,  because  of  the  doubloons-at  the  Brewer  railroad  station,  while  my  father  was  coaching  the  swimming  team.  Though  the  first  drags  did,  in  his  phrase,  knock  me  for  a  loop,  I  stuck  with  it;  my  vagabond  life  as  his  satellite  left  me  with  a  lot  of  idle time  in  luncheonette  booths.  One  win-  ter  morning  when  I  was  fifteen,  I  asked  him  if  I  could  light  up  a  cigarette  in  the  car  on  the  way  to  school.  He  himself  had  stopped,  on  his  doctor's  advice.  But  he  didn't  say  no  to  me,  and,  more  than  thirty  years  after  I,  too,  quit,  I  still  re-  member  those  caustic,  giddying  drags  mixed  with  the  first  grateful  whiffs  of  warmth  from  the  car  heater,  while  the  little  crackling  radio  played  its  med-  ley  of  the  Ink  Spots  and  farm  reports.  His  tacit  permission,  coming  from  a  schoolteacher,  would  have  been  viewed,  we  both  knew,  as  something  of  a  dis-  grace.  But  it  was  my  way  of  becoming  a  human  being,  and  part  of  being  hu-  man  is  being  on  the  verge  of  disgrace.  Moving  to  the  country  had  liberated  us  both,  I  see  now,  from  the  small-town  grid  and  those  masters  of  righteousness.  The  shopping  fell  to  us,  and  my  father  favored  a  roadside  grocery  store  that  was  owned  and  run,  it  was  rumored,  by  a  former  Brewer  gangster.  Like  my  father,  Arty  Callahan  was  tall,  melancholy,  and  slightly  deaf;  his  wife  was  an  overweight,  wisecracking  woman  whose  own  past,  it  was  said,  was  none  too  savory.  My  fa-  ther  loved  them,  and  loved  the  fifteen  minutes  of  delay  their  store  gave  him  on  the  return  home.  Both  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Callahan  took  him  in  the  right  way,  it  seemed  to  me,  with  not  too  much  of  either  amuse-  ment  or  gravity;  they  were,  all  three,  free  spirits  and  understood  one  another.  While  he  talked  to  them,  acting  out,  in  gestures  and  phrases  that  had  become  somewhat  stylized,  his  sense  of  daily  peril,  I  would  sit  at  a  small  Formica-  topped  table  next  to  the  magazine  rack  and  leaf  through  Esquire,  looking  for  Varga  girls.  I  would  sneak  a  look  at  Arty  Callahan's  profile,  so  noncommit-  tally  clamped  over  his  terribly  false  teeth,  and  wonder  how  many  men  he  had  killed.  The  only  gangsterish  thing  he  did  was  give  me  ten  dollars-a  huge  amount  for  an  hour's  worlk-for  tutor-  ing  his  son  in  algebra  on  Saturdays,  when  I  was  old  enough  to  drive  the  car  there.  We  had  traded  in  our  car  for  a  slightly  newer  and  more  dependable  one,  though  still  a  prewar  model.  By  the  time  I  went  off  to  college  I  no  longer  feared-I  no  longer  dreamed-that  my  father  would  be  savaged  by  society.  He  was  fifty  by  then,  a  respectable  age.  Living  his  life  beside  him  for  five  years,  I  had  seen  that  his  flirtation  with  disgrace  was  only  that,  not  a  ruinous  infatuation.  Noth-  ing  but  death  could  topple  him,  and  even  that  not  very  far,  not  in  my  mind.  