[REDACTED].    BOOTH  took  several  wrong  turns  during  the  drive  upstate.  It  vexed  him  to  get  lost  likethis  in  front  of  his  son,  especially  since  the  fault  lay  with  the  lousy  map  the  Academy  had  sent  him,  but  Owen  was  in  one  of  his  trances  and  didn't  seem  to  notice.  His  eyes  were  fixed  on  the  far  distance  and  his  lips  formed  whispery  sounds  in  a  cadence  that  suggested  poetry  or  music.  Dr.  Booth  knew  better  than  to  try  and  make  sense  of  it,  but  he  couldn't  stop  himself.  He  thought  he  recognized  one  word-'&quot;nightingale&quot;-and  that  word  awoke  a  memory  of  three  children,  himself  and  his  older  sisters,  sitting  in  a  garden  at  dusk  while  somewhere  above  them  a  bird  sang.  It  was,  he  knew,  a  trick  memory,  a  mirage:  there  had  been  no  such  garden  and  no  such  evening.  But  the  thought  of  his  sisters,  one  drowned  in  a  boating  accident  courtesy  of  her  dimwit  husband,  the  other  far  away  and  silent  for  years,  made  him  even  gloomier  than  he  already  was.  Owen  did  not  want  to  go  to  the  Academy.  He  had  made  this  plain  when  the  idea  first  came  up,  but  as  Dr.  Booth  and  his  wife  continued  to  discuss  it,  doubtfully  to  begin  with,  then  slowly  surrendering  to  its  tidal  pull,  the  boy  had  less  and  less  to  say.  He  receded  further  into  the  very  re-  moteness  Dr.  Booth  had  been  trying  to  lure  him  out  of,  and  now,  having  failed,  proposed  to  force  him  out  of  with  thehelp  of  the  school.  Dr.  Booth  had  never  heard  of  Fort  Steele  Academy  until  the  brochure  arrived  in  his  mailbox.  The  cover  showed  a  pair  of  uniformed  boys  stand-     BY  TOBIAS  WOLFF  ing  guard  on  either  side  of  a  gate.  It  was  snowing,  and  they  appeared  to  have  been  there  for  some  time:  a  good  two  inches  had  gathered  on  their  epaulettes  and  caps.  The  last  page  of  the  brochure  carried  a  statement  by  the  Comman-  dant,  Colonel  Karl:  &quot;It  is  no  kindness  to  the  young  to  pretend  that  life  is  not  a  struggle.  The  world  belongs  to  men  of  will,  and  the  sooner  that  lesson  is  learned,  the  better.  We  at  Fort  Steele  are  dedicated  to  teaching  it  by  every  means  at  our  disposal.&quot;  Dr.  Booth  could  well  understand  why  Owen  didn't  want  to  go  to  the  Acad-  emy.  He  was  comfortable  at  home.  He  had  his  foolish  dog,  his  lazy  friends,  thebig  house  with  all  its  sunny  cor-  ners.  When  Dr.  Booth  went  into  the  kitchen,  there  was  Owen.  In  the  living  room,  Owen  again.  The  frontyard,  Owen;  the  back  yard,  the  basement,  the  hammock-Owen!  As  a  boy,  Dr.  Booth  had  delivered  a  hundred  and  eighty  newspapers  before  school  and  hustled  subscriptions  at  night.  He  played  football.  He  ran  for  president  of  his  class.  Those  memories  of  his  own  youth  had  figured  heavily  in  the  de-  cision  to  send  Owen  away,  but  now,  reviewing  the  list  yet  again,  he  thought  he  must  be  leaving  something  out,  something  conclusive.  There  was  more;  surely  there  was  more.  &quot;It  won't  be  so  bad,&quot;  he  said.  Owen  was  silent.  &quot;Give  it  a  chance,  son.  You  might  even  like  it.&quot;  When  Owen  still  didn't  answer,  Dr.  Booth  said-almost  cried  out-*&quot;It's  for  your  own  good.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Owen  said.  &quot;You  do?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  &quot;Because  it's  what  you  want.&quot;  This  was  the  very  answer  he  would  have  hoped  for,  and  he  knew  that  he  should  be  satisfied  with  it,  but  he  wasn't.  It  troubled  him.  Just  then  the  road  came  to  a  fork  not  indicated  on  his  map,  and  he  had  to  do  some  guess-  work.  He  decided  to  take  the  right  branch,  then  at  the  last  moment  swerved  onto  the  left,  which  led  through  a  dense  stand  of  maples  that  hung  darkly  over  the  road  and  opened  up  to  reveal,  across  from  a  field  golden  with  hay,  the  gates  of  Fort  Steele  Acad-  emy.  Dr.  Booth  slowed  down.  He  wasn't  ready,  he  wanted  a  moment  to  probe  the  unease  he  felt,  but  when  his  car  came  into  view  the  two  cadets  on  either  side  of  the  gate  snapped  to  attention  and  held  their  salutes  until  he  had  driven  between  them  onto  the  grounds  of  the  school.  Owen  braced  his  hands  against  the  dashboard;  Dr.  Booth  heard  him  take  a  deep  breath.  They  bumped  over  the  cobbled  lane  toward  a  courtyard  bordered  on  three  sides  by  gray  stone  buildings.  Two  flags  waved  from  the  pole  in  the  yard:  Old  Glory  on  top,  the  school  crest  below-  sabres  crossed  above  a  castle.  A  pair  of  cadets  waited  in  the  circular  drive  at  the  end  of  the  lane,  legs  slightly  apart,  arms  behind  their  backs.  Like  the  guards  at  the  gate,  they  wore  black  uniforms  with  white  belts.  Their  eyes  were  shadowed  by  the  gleaming  bills  of  theircaps.  &quot;Son,&quot;  Dr.  Booth  said,  &quot;what  did  you  mean,  it's  what  I  want?&quot;  Owen  stared  at  him  without  comprehension.  Dr.  Booth  stopped  the  car.  &quot;Well?  Owen?  What  do  I  want?&quot;  &quot;For  me  to  grow  up,&quot;  Owen  said,  watching  one  of  the  cadets  march  to-  ward  them.  He  was  tall  and  his  chin  was  long  and  sharp  and  his  belt  buckle  flashed  like  a  beacon.  He  was  carry-  inga  clipboard  in  a  crisp,  prescribed-  looking  way.  The  cadet  stopped  in  front  of  the  car  and  waited  as  Dr.  Booth  and  Owen  got  out.  &quot;Name,  sir?&quot;  &quot;Booth.&quot;  The  cadet  rana  finger  down  the  clip-  FILIP  PAGOWSKI  board.  &quot;Booth,  Owen  G.,  blood  type  A.&quot;  &quot;That's  my  boy.&quot;  Dr.  Booth  smiled  at  Owen,  who  stared  dead  ahead.  He  had  attempted  to  square  his  thinshoul-  ders  andwas  holding  his  arms  straight  at  his  sides.  He  had  never  looked  so  young.Dr.  Booth  made  up  his  mind  to  have  a  talk  with  Colonel  Karl  before  he  left.  He  wasn't  going  to  leave  his  son  here  without  some  definite  assurances.  &quot;Private  Booth  is  late,  sir.  Roll  call  for  new  men  was  1300  hours.&quot;  &quot;I'm  aware  of  that.  We  had  some  trouble  getting  here.  A  lot  of  trouble,  in  fact.  That  map  is  practically  worthless.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  you  have  excellent  reasons,  sir.  The  fact  remains,  Pri-  vate  Booth  is  late.  Private  Booth  will  re-  port  immediately  to  the  quartermaster.  When  Private  Booth  has  drawn  his  gear,  he  will  move  smartly  to  D  Bar-  rack  and  await  orders.  Corporal  Cos-  tello  will  escort  him.  You  can  leave  his  bags  here.&quot;  The  cadet  snapped  his  fin-  gers.  The  other  cadet  stepped  forward.  Owen  turned  quickly  to  Dr.  Booth  and  held  out  his  hand.  Dr.  Booth  un-  derstood  that  he  did  this  to  prevent  the  embrace  he  knew  was  coming,  which  the  Doctor,  wounded,  was  tempted  to  im-  pose  on  him  anyway.  But  hetook  his  son's  hand  in  his  own.  &quot;Goodbye,  [REDACTED];  Owen  said.  Then  he  fell  in  behind  Corporal  Costello  and  followed  him  across  the  courtyard,  trying  to  match  the  cadet's  precise  stride  and  rigid  carriage.  He  didn't  even  come  close,  and  Dr.  Booth  knew  that  he  never  would.  The  distracted  saunter  he  kept  breaking  into  was  not  an  acci-  dent  of  age,  something  to  be  outgrown  or  overcome:  it  was,  in  truth,  nothing  less  than  Owen  himself.  &quot;I  need  to  speak  with  Colonel  Karl,&quot;  Dr.  Booth  said.  &quot;Colonel  Karl  is  busy,  [REDACTED];  the  cadet  said.  Dr.  Booth  insisted,  and  finally  the  cadet  led  him  to  a  windowless  lounge  in  the  basement  of  the  far  building.  He  was  alone  there.  An  aerial  photo-  graph  of  the  school  occupied  one  wall;  otherwise  the  room  was  bare  of  orna-  ment.  Four  overstuffed  chairs  faced  a  coffee  table  bearing  an  Academy  bro-  chure  identical  to  the  one  Dr.  Booth  had  received.  He  picked  it  upand  slowly  turned  the  pages,  then  set  it  down  and  paced  the  room.  A  silent  grandfather  clock,  hands  frozen  at  6:18,  stood  in  one  corner,  an  empty  umbrella  stand  in  another.  Time  passed.  Dr.  Booth  went  upstairs  to  the  door  of  the  building.  The  courtyard  was  empty.  The  flags  drooped  on  their  pole.  He  stepped  outside  and,  seeing  no  one,  followed  abrick  pathway  around  back  in  the  direction  Owen  had  gone.  The  path  skirted  a  deserted  football  field  with  bleachers  on  one  side,  then  led  past  a  pond  covered  with  lily  pads.  On  the  opposite  bank,  black  against  the  hazy  sky,  rose  the  stone  walls  and  battle-  mented  towerof  what  Dr.  Booth  rec-  ognized  from  the  brochure  as  Memo-  rial  Chapel.  The  path  he  was  on  turned  away  in  the  opposite  direction.  He  left  it  and  pushed  through  clumps  of  sumac  and  elder  to  the  other  side  of  the  pond.  One  half  of  the  arched  door  was  locked,  the  other  slightly  ajar.  Dr.  Booth  listened,  heard  nothing,  and  entered  the  chapel.  Weak  light  fell  aslant  through  the  long  narrow  win-  dows-windows  like  gun  slits.  It  seemed  to  dim  rather  than  brighten  the  oak  pews  and  stone  floors.  There  wasno  organ.  The  altar  was  bare.  On  the  platform  in  front  of  the  altar,  facing  the  pews,  someone  had  placed  a  high-backed  wooden  chair.  Dr.  Booth  could  not  make  out  its  purpose.  If  one  wished  to  address  the  congregation,  one  would  surely  usethe  carved  pulpit  with  its  superior  elevation  and  author-  ity.  One  would  stand,  not  sit.  He  stud-  ied  the  chair  from  the  rear  of  the  chapel,  then  started  down  the  aisle.  In  obedi-  ence  to  an  impulse  he  was  hardly  aware  of  but  could  not  resist,  Dr.  Booth  held  his  upper  body  stiff  and  paused  for  a  beat  after  each  step,  one  foot  trailing,  heel  raised.  He  had  never  marched  before,  but  he  marched  in  this  fashion  the  length  of  the  aisle  and  climbed  to  the  altar,  where  he  executed  a  perfect  about-face  and  then,  asif  on  command,  lowered  himself  onto  the  chair,  back  straight,  hands  in  his  lap.  How  quiet  it  was.  Dr.  Booth  looked  out  into  the  chapel,  at  the  sombre  pews  where  the  cadets  would  file  in  and  stand  waiting  and  then  take  their  seats  in  a  single  motion-one  great  creak,  then  si-  lence.  Whoever  sat  in  this  chair  could  see  the  face  of  every  cadet.  Dr.  Booth  could  almost  see  the  faces  himself,  row  after  row  of  them,  faintly  lumi-  nous  in  the  shadows.  He  could  feel  them  watching  him  from  behind  their  55  unblinking  eyes,  weighing  him  in  the  scales,  and  then  it  came  to  him  that  this  was  the  place  of  judgment.  This  was  where  you  sat  to  have  your  faults  revealed  and  to  receive  your  sen-  tence.  Dr.  Booth  looked  away,  at  the  heavy  beams  overhead,the  roof  slant,  ing  up  into  darkness.  He  closed  his  eyes.  Still  he  saw  the  faces  of  the  cadets,  taut  and  pale  above  their  black  uni-  forms.  He  strainedtofind  among  them  some  glint  of  fellow-feeling,  some  in-  timation  of  mercy;  he  found  none.  The  door  swung  open  at  the  rear  of  the  chapel  and  a  cadet  stood  silhouetted  in  the  doorway.  &quot;Sir,&quot;  he  said.  Dr.  Booth  stood  clumsily,  knock-  ing  over  the  chair.  He  set  it  right  and  hurried  up  the  aisle.  &quot;Coming,&quot;  he  called  out.  The  cadet  held  the  door  for  Dr.  Booth  and  followed  him  outside,  where  another  cadet-the  tall  one  who'd  scolded  him  for  being  late-  passed  on  Colonel  Karl's  deepest  regrets  that,  owing  to  prior  obligations,  he  was  unable  to  speak  with  Dr.  Booth  this  afternoon.  The  Doctor  could  return  the  next  morning  if  he  wished  or  call  for  an  appointment  at  some  later  date.  Dr.  Booth  supposed  he  could  raise  a  fuss  and  make  it  impossible  for  Colo-  nel  Karl  not  tosee  him,  but  he  was  wor-  ried  about  the  trouble  this  might  cause  Owen,  and  anyway  he  had  to  get  back  on  the  road  if  he  was  to  reach  home  before  dark.  He  was  ready  to  leave  Fort  Steele  Academy;  he  was  ready  almost  to  the  point  of  panic.  So  he  accepted  Colonel  Karl's  message  without  protest  and  allowed  the  two  cadets  to  take  him  back  to  his  car.  They  led  him  like  a  prisoner,  the  tall  one  in  front,  the  other  at  his  heels,  but  saluted  elegantly  when  he  started  the  engine  and  drove  back  down  the  lane.  The  guards  at  the  gate  also  saluted.  In  the  field  across  the  road  a  green  tractor  moved  slowly  along  the  fence,  pulling  a  mower.  The  smell  of  fresh-cut  hay  filled  the  car  and  lingered  until  Dr.  Booth  was  several  miles  away,  and  lost  again.  HE  parked  on  the  shoulder  of  the  road,  engine  ticking,  and  choked  back  his  rage  just  enough  to  hold  the  goddam-son-of-a-bitch  map  without  tearing  it  to  pieces.  With  a  trembling  finger  he  tried  to  retrace  his  route:  he'd  taken  this  road  through  the  maple  56  grove  beyond  the  school,  yes,  then  it  must've  been  this  one,  here,  that  had  carried  him  over  an  unmarked  bridge  and  thence  to  a  triple  fork,  also  un-  marked,  where  he'd  been  forced  to  make  the  first  of  a  long  series  of  choices  for  which  he  had  received  no  guidance,  before  finally  coming  to  rest  in  this  vast  flatland  whose  very  existence  went  completely  unremarked  by  the  map.  A  water  tower  gleamed  in  the  dis-  tance.  The  reek  of  manure  lay  heavy  on  the  air.  Three  white-faced  cows  watched  from  the  fence  to  his  left  as  Dr.  Booth  continued  to  study  the  map,  this  time  in  reverse,  trying  to  find  the  various  roads  that  he  and  Owen  had  followed  from  home  to  the  Academy.  Only  the  first  couple  of  turns  off  the  interstate  were  correctly  indicated.    It  was  a  pure  miracle  he  had  ever  found  the  school,  given  that  he'd  had  to  make  his  way  there  almost  entirely  on  hunches.  He  crumpled  the  map  and  threw  it  out  the  window.  One  of  the  cows  took  a  step  backward,  then  continued  to  ruminate  and  stare.  Dr.  Booth  was  thinking  about  the  aerial  photograph  in  the  lounge.  He  saw  it  again  in  de-  tail.  There  was  no  pond  in  the  pic-  ture,  and  the  chapel  stood  a  good  dis-  tance  from  its  actual  location,  form-  ing  part  of  a  quadrangle.  That  quad-  rangle  did  not  exist.  Like  the  map,  the  aerial  photograph  was  a  fiction.  Once  Dr.  Booth  recognized  this,  he  had  to  entertain  a  number  of  ques-  tions  he'd  been  trying  to  shrug  off.  Dur-  ing  his  time  at  the  Academy,  he  had     THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  6,  1997  seen  only  a  few  cadets-the  guards,  and  the  ones  who  had  taken  charge  of  Owen.  Where  were  all  the  other  boys  in  this  school  of  five  hundred?  Why  hadn't  he  run  across  any  of  them  out  marching  around,  or  heard  their  voices?  How  had  their  parents  found  the  way?  Why  wouldn't  Colonel  Karl  see  him,  or  at  least  send  a  deputy?  Dr.  Booth  turned  the  car  around  and  started  back  the  way  he'd  come.  He  was  determined  not  to  leave  Owen  in  that  place.  He  saw  a  crossroad  approaching  and  knew  without  doubt  that  he  should  turn  right.  The  certainty  he  felt  was  sur-  prising  and  tonic,  like  the  first  deep  breath  when  he  left  the  hospital  at  day's  end.  He  knew  where  he  was  going  now.  How  had  this  happened?  The  brochure  had  arrived-but  why?  And  why  had  he  considered  it  at  all-the  surrender  of  his  boy  to  unknown  disciplines  and  judgments,  to  powers  of  which  he  knew  nothing,  except  that  they  were  without  patience,  or  humor,  or  mercy?  His  wife  had  resisted  at  first,  but  in  spite  of  his  own  doubts  he  bullied  her  along  until  she,  like  Owen,  saw  the  futility  of  argument.  They  had  no  choice  in  the  mat-  ter;  nor,  it  then  seemed  to  him,  did  he.  From  the  moment  he  saw  the  brochure  he  had  known,  unhappily,  miserably  in  fact,  that  Owen  would  go  there.  His  attempts  to  talk  himself  out  of  it  left  him  even  more  helplessly  snarled  in  justifications  that  now  seemed  trivial,  baffling.  He  had  compared  Owen  to  himself-how,  in  his  youth,  he  had  sold  newspapers  and  played  sports  and  run  for  office.  That  much  was  true.  But  he'd  never  actually  been  elected;  he  had  offered  himself  up  year  after  year  and  received  noth-  ing  for  his  pains  but  more  hu-  miliation.  His  father  had  made  him  take  on  the  paper  route  because  they  needed  the  money,  and  he'd  hated  every  minute  of  it,  the  waking  in  darkness,  the  cold  and  rain,  the  way  his  cus-  tomers  cried  poor  and  hid  from  him.  He'd  played  varsity  foot-  ball,  yes,  but  only  in  his  senior  NIGHTINGALE  year,  when  his  lit-  tle  brother  took  over  the  route.  Owen  was  much  younger  than  he  had  been  then.  Much  younger.  How  had  he  forgotten?  Reasons.  Owen's  remoteness.  Time  for  the  boy  to  wake  up  and  get  out  of  the  house,  show  some  pluck,  some  drive,  some  will  power-that  was  always  the  closing  arument,  the  clincher.  But  why?  Owen  did  well  in  school.  He  was  quiet  and  liked  to  read  and  wasn't  much  of  an  ath-  lete,  but  he  wasn't  lazy  or  lacking  in  courage;  he  and  his  friends  routinely  rode  their  bikes  up  and  down  hills  that  verged  on  the  perpendicular.  And  those  sounds  Owen  made-what  was  the  harm  in  them?  Why  shouldn't  he  dream  up  poems,  or  songs,  or  whatever  they  were?  Why  shouldn't  he  dream?  He  was  a  child.  Dr.  Booth  turned  left  at  a  fork  and  navigated  a  run  of  sharp  turns  as  if  he'd  spent  his  life  on  this  road.  The  haze  was  gone,  the  late-afternoon  light  almost  painfully  clear.  Pump-  kins  gleamed  in  a  passing  field.  He  had  wanted  Owen  out  of  the  house.  That  was  the  truth,  and  it  made  no  sense  to  him  now.  The  impatience  he'd  felt,  coming  upon  his  son  read-  ing  or  playing  with  his  dog,  do-  ing  nothing,  dreaming-why?  What  was  the  crime?  As  a  boy,  he  himself  hadwanted  nothing  more  than  the  chance  to  dream.  It  had  come  sel-  dom  in  that  crowded,  industrious  house,  and  never  lasted  long.  Why  should  he  begrudge  his  son  what  he  hadmost  desired?  Why  should  he  be-  grudge  his  son  his  childhood?  Neat  files  of  corn  flicked  past.  Dr.  Booth  drove  faster,  fast  as  he  dared,  through  corkscrew  turns,  down  straight-  aways,  over  gravel  fire  roads  and  glistening  blacktop,  past  marsh,  past  field,  up  hilltops  awash  in  light  and  deep  into  valleys  abysmal.  As  he  drove  he  pon-  dered  the  face  of  his  son  as  if  it  were  a  map,  as  if  he  were  learning  where  to  turn  from  thecurve  of  Owen's  neck,  the  slant  of  an  eyebrow.  And  then  it  began  to  fade.  At  first  he  barely  no-  ticed.  The  long  fine  line  of  the  nose  blurred  subtly,  that  was  all.  Then  the  cheeks  paled;  the  smile  grew  faint;  the  light  dulled  and  died  from  the  eyes.  He  fiercely  studied  every  feature  even  as  it  ebbed  away,  trying  to  hold  the  ghostly  image  there,  keep  it  in  mind  long  enough  to  find  his  way  back  to  the  true  face.  And  then  it  vanished,  and  he  was  lost  again.  He  passed  through  a  dark  wood.  The  trees  closed  above  him  in  a  way  that  seemed  protective,  and  when  he  left  their  embrace  he  slowed  and  pulled  to  the  side  of  the  road.  The  sun  was  go-  ing  down  over  the  field  to  his  right,  where  a  tractor  moved  slowly  in  the  distance,  cutting  the  last  rows  of  hay.  Dr.  Booth  got  out  of  the  car.  He  crossed  the  road  and  gazed  up  the  hill.  Another  field,  also  full  of  new-mown  hay.  The  smell  went  to  his  head.  He  stood  there  a  moment,  then  ducked  through  the  fence  and  walked  farther  into  the  field.  He  kept  staring  up  the  hill  as  he  climbed,  looking  for  some-  thing.  When  he  reached  the  crest  he  stopped.  All  around  him  the  fields  rolled  empty  away.  He  felt  a  stone  un-  der  his  shoe,  nudged  it  aside,  thenbent  to  pick  it  up.  Not  a  stone,  after  all.  A  button-a  metal  button  caked  with  dirt.  He  picked  at  it  until  the  brass  was  re-  vealed,  then  examined  it  in  the  last  of  the  light.  Under  the  verdigris  he  could  make  out  a  pair  of  crossed  swords.  A  military  button,  then.  An  old  one.  Something  must  have  happened  here,  long  ago-that  was  why  he'd  been  drawn  to  this  place.  A  battle  had  been  fought,  no  quarter  given;  boys  became  men,  and  were  lost.  Wasn't  that  the  way  of  it?  He  slipped  the  button  in  his  pocket  and  started  down  the  hill.  