 b"FICTION  69  THE  WRETCHED  SEVENTIES   BY  BARRY  HANNAH   A  decade  of  darkness  recollected  in  tranquillity.  *  ANY,  too  many,  days,  Ned  Maxy  had  stared  out  a  &quot;  (1  window  weep-  _]  ing,  fasting,  and  |  praying,  in  his  aul  way.  In  charac-  {}{  ter  ofboth  the  drunkard  and  the  penitent,  he  had  watched  life  across  the  street.  Now,  in  a  healthier  time,  arising  to  his  work  at  early  hours,  he  cond  window  table,  peering  out  on  occasion  at  a  world  that  spoke  back  to  him.  Not  loudly  and  not  a  lot,  butsome.  Over  the  white  board  fence  he'd  just  painted,  and  through  the  leaping  wide  leaves  of  his  muscadine  arbor,  he  spied  shyly  like  a  stranger  in  town.  The  satisfaction  of  this  almost  fright,  ened  him.  The  woman  ina  uniform  who  left  every  morning  at  a  quarter  to  eight  was  a  paramedic.  In  the  awful  seventies  Maxy  had  sworn  to  hundreds  in  saloons  that  he  wanted  most  of  all  to  be  a  paramedic.  This  was  a  bogus  piety  to  support  his  drinking.  But  here  was  the  real  thing.  Maxy  did  not  know  the  paramedic  woman  but  he  watched  her  through  a  pair  of  opera  glasses  he  had  bought  at  a  Hot  Springs  pawnshop  from  a  man  who  had  also  been  broken  in  the  sev-  enties  and  whonow  sat  with  his  crutches  beside  him  and  lit  up  unfiltered  Luck-  ies  that  made  him  retch.  In  his  late  forties  the  lifetime  mon-  ster  of  lust  had  released  him,  first  time  since  he  was  eleven,  just  as  the  mon-  ster  of  drink  had  released  him  four  years  ago.  He  still  didnot  know  pre-  cisely  what  accounted  for  it,  but  it  was  a  deep  lucky  thing,  now  that  he  was  able  to  see  the  woman  paramedic  across  \xc2\xa7  the  street  leaving  for  work  and  compre-  o  hend  that  she  could  be  happy  without  j  him.  He  looked  on  in  high  admiration,  \xe2\x82\xac  good  will,  and  with  no  panic.  She  was      engaged  toa  wide  man  with  a  crewcut  who  came  out  with  her  to  the  doorway  on  his  big  white  legs,  in  Bermuda  shorts,  and  embraced  her,  seeing  his  loveoff  in  the  cool  of  the  morning.  Maxy  ap-  plauded  their  love.  He  had  been  in  love  this  way  twice  in  his  life.  He  recalled  the  stupid  rapture  and  had  no  advice  for  them  at  all.  He  had  spoken  to  the  woman  only  once,  told  her  she  looked  good  in  her  uniform-all  ready  to  fly  away  in  a  he-  licopter  in  her  high-top  black  leather  sneakers.  She  had  the  voice  of  a  coun-  try  girl,  the  kind  of  girl  who  had  soothed  his  old  man  dying  in  the  hos-  pital  at  age  eighty-seven.  The  old  fel-  lowhad  got  rich  in  the  city  but  loved  the  country  much  better,  and  thenurse  was  a  sweet  comfort  at  the  last.  Maxy  liked  that  this  country  girl  had  the  moxie  to  fly  in  a  machine  that  would  have  terrified  many  hillbillies,  and  he  told  her  so.  Even  from  a  hundred  yards  he  could  see  her  go  shy,  having  an  un-  expected  compliment  sail  out  to  her  from  a  man  who  didn't  need  anything,  here  in  the  late  cool  of  a  summer  morning,  her  head  ofblond  hair  low-  ered  to  look  at  her  own  eminent  bosom  of  which  he  was  no  longer  required  to  dream  in  impossible  lechery.  She  answered  some  way  he  couldn't  make  out,  in  a  whisper,  a  country  whis-  per  of  thanks,  goodbeyond  form.  This  whole  exchange  would  not  have  been  possible  even  three  months  ago,  when  in  his  mind  he  would  have  been  teach-  ing  her  the  needs  of  his  famished  world,  her  body  a  naked  whirlwind  of  willing  orifices,  as  he  smiled  at  her  all  the  while  like  the  prince  of  liars.  The  whisper  had  fetched  back  for  him  his  old  mighty  friend  Drum,  lately  a  suicide.  Drum  was  a  practicing  Chris-  tian,  one  of  maybe  four  selfless  men  NedMaxy  had  known  in  life,  brought  low  by  pain  and  anxiety  after  a  heart  at-  tack.  He  was  cut  off  from  good  work  and  high  spirits  and  could  not  go  on,  they  said.  Drum  was  the  only  whisper-  ing  drunkard  Maxy  knew.  Through  all  the  thundering  seventies  he  had  never  raised  his  voice.  He  killed  himself  in  the  bathroom  of  a  double-wide  mobile  home  he  rented  from  a  preacher  who  lamented  to  the  police:  Now  poor  Drum  can't  ever  go  to  Heaven.  But  he  had  been  tidy,  there  in  the  bathtub  with  the  large-calibre  pistol,  much  appreciated.  His  drinking  buddy  Drum's  whis-  pers  of  encouragement,  his  pleading  to  Maxy  that  he  was  a  man  who  must  re-  spect  himself,  that  he  must  work  hard,  that  he  must  not  waste  the  precious  daysor  the  gifts  poured  on  him  by  na-  ture-Ned  Maxy  would  take  that  whis-  per  with  him  until  his  own  heart  stopped,  too,  and  he  knew  this.  The  whisper  of  the  paramedic  coun-  try  girl  was  there  for  him  now.  He  did  not  want  to  make  too  much  out  of  it.  Thousands  must  have  been  given  this  gift.  He  didn't  want  to  be  only  another  kind  of  fool,  a  sort  of  Peeping  Tom  of  charity.  But  he  was  a  new  fool.  Some  big  quiet  thing  had  fallen  down  and  locked  into  place,  like  a  whisper  of  some  weight.  Ned  Maxy  had  been  granted  contact  with  paradise,  and  he  could  hardly  believe  the  lack  of  noise.  His  awful  seventies  decade  had  gone  past  twenty  years.  Finally  it  was  over.  The  next  day,  Maxy,  in  adaze,  got  his  rushed  suit  out  of  the  cleaners  and  attended  the  wedding  of  the  woman  paramedic  at  a  country  church  down  between  Water  Valley  and  Coffeeville.  He  shook  hands  with  the  bride  and  groom,  then  stood  out  of  the  pounding  heat  under  the  shade  of  a  tall  brothering  sycamore.  Nobody  ever  figured  out  quite  who  he  was.  Their  faces  were  full  of  baf-  fled  felicity,  as  if  each  one  was  whisper-  ing,  Well,  howdy,  stranger,  I  guess.  *  "