 b"62  FICTION  THE  REVIVAL  Did  she  lead  him  on?  Was  she  in  love  with  him,  even  if  only  a  little?  I.  PETERSBURG  T  was  an  old  play  of  his,  written  in  I  [REDACTED]  back  in  1849.  The  censor  hadbanned  it  the  following  year,  and  licensed  it  for  publication  only  in  1855.  It  finally  reached  the  stage  sev-  enteen  years  later,  when  it  ran  for  a  pitiful  five  nights  in  [REDACTED].  Now,  thirty  years  after  its  conception,  she  had  telegraphed  asking  permission  to  abridge  it  for  Petersburg.  He  agreed,  while  gently  protesting  that  this  juve-  nile  invention  had  been  meant  for  the  page,  not  the  stage.  He  added  that  the  play  was  unworthy  of  her  talent.  This  was  a  typical  gallantry;  he  had  never  seen  her  act.  Like  most  of  his  life's  writing,  the  play  was  concerned  with  love.  And,  as  in  his  life,  so  in  his  writing:  love  did  not  work.  Love  might  or  might  not  pro-  voke  kindness,  gratify  vanity,  and  clear  the  skin,  but  it  didnot  lead  to  happi-  ness;  there  was  always  an  inequality  of  feeling  or  intention  present.  Such  was  love's  nature.  Of  course,  it  &quot;worked&quot;  in  the  sense  that  it  caused  life's  pro-  foundest  emotions,  made  him  fresh  as  spring's  linden  blossom,  and  broke  him  like  a  traitor  on  the  wheel.  It  stirred  him  from  well-mannered  timidity  to  relative  boldness-though  a  rather  the-  oretical  boldness,  one  tragicomically  incapable  of  action.  It  taught  him  the  gulping  folly  of  anticipation,  the  wretchedness  of  failure,  the  whine  of  regret,  and  the  silly  fondness  of  remem-  brance.  He  knew  love  well.  He  also  knew  himself  well.  Thirty  years  earlier,  he  had  written  himself  into  the  part  of  Rakitin,  who  offers  the  audience  his  conclusions  about  love:  &quot;In  my  opinion,  Alexei  Nikolaevich,  every  love,  happy  as  well  as  unhappy,  is  a  real  di-  saster  when  you  give  yourself  over  to  it  entirely.&quot;  These  views  were  deleted  by  the  censor.  He  had  assumed  that  she  would  play  the  female  lead,  Natalya  Petrovna,  the  married  woman  who  falls  in  love  with  her  son's  tutor.  Instead,  she  chose  to  be   Natalya's  ward,  Verochka,  who,  in  the  way  of  plays,  also  falls  in  love  with  the  tutor.  The  production  opened;  he  came  to  Petersburg;  she  called  on  him  in  his  rooms  at  the  Hotel  de  Europe.  She  had  expected  to  be  intimidated,  but  found  herself  charmed  by  the  &quot;elegant  and  likable  grandpa&quot;  that  she  discov-  ered.  He  treated  her  like  a  child.  Was  this  so  surprising?  She  was  twenty-five,  he  was  sixty.  On  March  27th,  he  went  to  a  per-  formance  of  his  play.  Despite  hiding  in  the  depths  of  the  director's  box,  he  was  recognized,  and  at  the  end  of  the  sec-  ond  act  the  audience  started  calling  his  name.  She  came  to  take  him  onstage,  but  he  refused,  and  took  his  bow  from  the  box.  After  the  third  act,  he  visited  her  dressing  room,  where  he  grasped  her  hands  and  led  her  to  the  gaslight.  &quot;Verochka,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Have  I  really  written  this  Verochka?  I  didn't  even  pay  attention  to  her  when  I  was  writing.  ...  The  focal  point  of  the  play  is  Natalya  Petrovna.  ..  .  Your  Verochka  is  alive.&quot;  2.  THE  REAL  JOURNEY  SO  did  he  fall  in  love  with  his  own  creation?  Verochka  onstage  be-  neath  the  floodlight,  Verochka  offstage  beneath  the  gaslight-his  Verochka,  prized  now  the  more  for  having  been  overlooked  in  his  own  text  thirty  years  earlier?  If  love,  as  some  assert,  is  a  purely  self-referring  business,  if  the  object  of  love  is  finally  unimportant  be-  cause  what  the  lover  values  is  the  emo-  tions  aroused,  then  what  more  appro-  priate  circularity  than  for  a  dramatist  to  fall  in  love  with  his  own  creation?  Who  needs  the  interference  of  the  real  per-  son,  the  real  per  beneath  the  sunlight,  the  lamplight,  the  heartlight?  Here  is  a  photo  of  Verochka,  dressed  as  if  for  the  schoolroom:  timid  and  appealing,  with  ardor  in  her  eyes  and  an  open  palm  de-  noting  trust.  But,  if  this  confusion  occurred,  she  incited  it.  Years  later,  she  wrote  in  her  memoirs,  &quot;I  did  not  pay  Verochka,  I  performed  a  sacred  rite.  ...  I  felt  quite  distinctly  that  Verochka  and  I  were  the  same  person.&quot;  So  let  us  be  forgiving  if  the  Verochka  who  was  so  &quot;alive&quot;  was  what  first  moved  him;  what  first  moved  her  was  perhaps  something  else  that  didn't  exist-the  author  of  the  play,  now  himself  long  gone,  thirty  years  away.  And  let's  also  remember  that  he  knew  this  would  be  his  last  love.  He  was  an  old  man  now.  He  was  ap-  plauded,  wherever  he  went,  as  an  insti-  tution,  the  representative  of  an  era,  someone  whose  work  was  done.  Abroad,  they  hung  gowns  and  ribbons  on  him.  He  was  sixty,  old  by  choice  as  well  as  by  fact.  A  year  or  two  earlier,  he  had  written,  &quot;After  the  age  of  forty  there  is  only  one  word  to  sum  up  the  basis  of  life:  'renunciation.'&quot;  Now  he  was  half  as  old  again  as  that  defining  anniversary.  He  was  sixty,  she  was  twenty-five.  In  letters,  he  kissed  her  hands,  he  kissed  her  feet.  He  sent  a  gold  bracelet  with  their  two  names  engraved  inside.  &quot;I  feel  now,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;that  I  love  you  sincerely.  I  feel  that  you  have  become  something  in  my  life  from  which  I  shall  never  be  parted.&quot;  The  phrasing  is  con-  ventional.  Were  they  lovers?  It  seems  not.  For  him,  it  was  a  love  predicated  upon  renunciation,  whose  excitements  were  called  if-only  and  what-might-  have-been.  And  just  as,  before  the  age  of  renunciation,  physical  vigor  naturally  appears  as  proof,  or,  at  least,  corroborating  evidence,  of  professed  emotion-the  erection  to  the  witness  box!-so  in  the  slower,  later  years  the  debility  of  the  flesh  confirms  the  heart's  decline.  But  all  love  needs  a  journey.  All  love  symbolically  is  a  journey,  and  that  sym-  bol  needs  bodying  forth.  Their  journey  took  place  on  May  28,  1880.  He  was  staying  on  his  country  estate;  he  pressed  her  to  visit  him  there.  She  couldn't;  she  was  an  actress,  at  work,  on  tour;  even  she,  at  twenty-six,  had  things  that  must  " b"&gt;  9  t  Q  &lt;  &amp;a  \xc2\xa2  N  O  V  O  S  T  I  P  R  E  be  renounced.  But  she  would  be  trav-  elling  from  Petersburg  to  Odessa;  her  route  could  take  her  through  Mtsensk  and  Oryol.  He  consulted  the  timetable  for  her.  Three  trains  left  from  Mos-  cow  along  the  Kursk  line.  The  twelve-  thirty,  thefour  o'clock,  and  the  eight-  thirty:  the  express,  the  mail,  and  the  slow  train.  Respective  arrivals  at  Mtsensk:  ten  in  the  evening,  four-  thirty  in  the  morning,  and  nine-  forty-five  in  the  morning.  There  was  the  practicality  of  romance  to  be  considered.  Should  the  beloved  arrive  with  the  post,  or  on  the  railway's  equivalent  of  the  red-eye?  He  urged  her  to  take  the  twelve,  thirty,  redefining  its  arrival  more  exactly,  to  9:55  P.M.  There  is  an  ironic  side  to  this  precision.  He  was  himself  notori-  ously  unpunctual.  At  one  time  he  made  an  affectation  of  carrying  a  dozen  watches  on  his  person;  even  so,  he  would  be  hours  late  for  a  rendezvous.  But  on  May  28th,  trembling  like  a  youth,  he  met  the  nine-fifty-five  express  at  the  little  station  of  Mtsensk.  Night  had  fallen.  He  boarded  the  train.  It  was  thirty  miles  from  Mtsensk  to  Oryol.  He  sat  in  her  compartment  for  those  thirty  miles.  He  gazed  ather,  he  kissed  her  hands.  He  did  not  dare  to  kiss  her  lips:  renunciation.  Or  he  tried  to  kiss  her  lips  and  she  turned  her  face  away:  shame,hu-  miliation.  The  banality,  too,  at  his  age.  Or  he  kissed  her  and  she  kissed  him  back  as  ardently:  sur-  prise,  and  leaping  fear.  We  do  not  know;,  his  diary  was  later  burned,  her  letters  have  not  survived.  All  we  have  are  his  subsequent  letters,  whose  gauge  of  reliability  is  that  they  date  this  May  journey  to  the  month  of  June.  We  know  that  she  had  a  travelling  companion,  Raisa  Alex-  eyevna.  What  did  she  do?  Feign  sleep,  pretend  to  have  sudden  night  vision  for  the  darkened  landscape,  retreat  be-  hind  a  volume  of  Tolstoy?  Thirty  miles  passed.  He  got  off  the  train  at  Oryol.  She  sat  at  her  window,  waving  her  handkerchief  to  him  as  the  express  took  her  on  toward  Odessa.  No,  even  that  handkerchief  is  in-  vented.  But  the  point  is,  they  hadhad  their  journey.  Now  it  could  be  remem-  bered,  improved,  turned  into  the  em-  bodiment,  the  actuality,  of  the  if-only.  He  continued  to  invoke  it  until  his  death.  It  was,  in  a  sense,  his  last  jour-  ney,  the  last  journey  of  the  heart.  &quot;My  life  is  behind  me,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;and  that  hour  spent  in  the  railway  compartment,  when  I  almost  felt  like  a  twenty-year-    old  youth,  was  the  last  burst  of  flame.&quot;  Does  he  mean  he  almost  got  an  erection?  Our  century  rebukes  its  pre-  decessor  for  its  platitudes  and  evasions,  its  sparks,  its  flames,  its  fires,  its  impre-  cise  scorchings.  Love  isn't  a  bonfire,  for  God's  sake-it's  a  hard  cock  and  a  wet  cunt,  we  growl  at  these  swooning,  re-  nouncing  people.  Get  on  with  it!  Why  on  earth  didn't  you?  Cock-scared,  cunt-  bolted  tribe  of  people!  Hand-kissing!  It's  perfectly  obvious  what  you  really  wanted  to  kiss.  So  why  not?  And  on  a  train,  too.  You'd  just  have  to  hold  63  your  tongue  in  place  and  let  the  move-  ment  of  the  train  do  the  work  for  you.  Clackety-clack,  clackety-clack!  When  did  you  last  have  your  hands  kissed?  And,  if  you  did,  how  doyou  know  he  was  any  good  at  it?  (Better,  when  did  anyone  last  write  to  you  about  kissing  your  hand?)  Here  is  the  argument  for  the  world  of  renun-  ciation.  If  weknow  more  about  consummation,  they  knew  more  about  desire.  If  we  know  more  about  numbers,  they  knew  more  about  de-  spair.  If  we  know  more  about  boast-  ing,  they  knew  more  about  mem-  ory.  They  had  foot  we  have  toe-sucking.  You  still  pre-  fer  our  side  of  the  equation?  You  may  well  be  right.  Then  try  a  simpler  formulation:  If  we  know  more  about  sex,  they  knew  more  about  love.  Or  perhaps  this  is  quite  wrong,  and  we  mistake  the  gradations  of  courtly  style  for  realism.  Perhaps  foot-kissing  always  meant  toe-  sucking.  He  also  wrote  to  her,  &quot;I  kiss  your  little  hands,  your  little  feet,  kiss  everything  you  will  allow  me  to  kiss,  and  even  that  which  you  will  not.&quot;  Isn't  this  clear  enough,  to  both  writer  and  recipi-  ent?  And,  if  so,  then  perhaps  the  converse  is  also  true:  that  heart-  reading  was  just  as  coarsely  prac-  ticed  then  as  it  is  now.  But,  as  we  mock  these  genteel  fumblers  of  a  previous  era,  we  should  prepare  ourselves  for  the  jeers  of  the  next  century.  How  come  we  never  think  of  this?  We  believe  in  evolution,  but  only  in  the  sense  of  evolution  culminat-  ing  in  us.  We  forget  that  this  en-  tails  evolution  beyond  our  solip-  sistic  selves.  Those  old  Russians  were  good  at  dreaming  a  better  time,  and  we  take  their  dreams  as  our  ap-  plause.  But  we  are  the  more  complacent.  While  her  train  continued  toward  Odessa,  he  spent  the  night  at  a  hotel  in  Oryol.  A  bipolar  night,  splendid  be-  cause  he  thought  only  of  her,  miserable  because  this  prevented  him  from  sleep-  ing.  The  voluptuousness  of  renuncia-  tion  was  now  upon  him:  &quot;I  find  my  lips  murmuring,  'What  a  night  we  should  have  spent  together&quot;  &quot;  To  which  our  practical  and  irritated  century  re-  plies,  &quot;Take  another  train  then!  Try  " b"kissing  her  wherever  it  wasyou  didn't!  Such  action  would  be  far  too  dan-  gerous.  He  must  preserve  the  impossi-  bility  of  love.  So  he  offers  her  an  ex-  travagant  if-only.  He  confesses  that  as  her  train  was  about  to  leave  he  was  sud-  denly  tempted  to  the  &quot;madness&quot;  of  ab-  ducting  her.  It  was  a  temptation  he  naturally  renounced:  &quot;The  bell  rang,  and  ciao,  as  the  Italians  say.&quot;  But  think  of  the  newspaper  headlines  if  he  had  carried  out  his  momentary  plan.  &quot;SCAN-  DAL  AT  ORYOL  RAILWAY  STATION,&quot;  he  delightedly  imagines.  If  only.  &quot;An  ex-  traordinary  event  took  place  here  yes-  terday:  the  author  I-,  an  elderly  man,  was  accompanying  the  celebrated  ac-  tress  S-,who  was  travelling  to  Odessa  fora  brilliant  season  in  the  theatre  there,  when,  just  as  the  train  was  about  to  pull  out,  he,  as  though  pos-  sessed  by  the  Devil  in  person,  extracted  Mme.  S-  through  the  window  of  her  compartment  and,  overcoming  the  artiste's  desperate  efforts,  etc.  etc.&quot;  If  only.  The  real  moment-the  possible  handkerchief  being  waved  at  the  win-  dow,  the  probable  station  gaslight  falling  on  the  whitened  crest  of  an  old  man-is  rewritten  into  farce  and  melodrama,  into  journalese  and  &quot;mad-  ness.&quot;  The  alluring  if-only  does  not  re-  fer  to  the  future;  it  is  safely  lodged  in  the  past.  The  bell  rang,  and  ciao,  as  the  Italians  say.  He  also  had  another  tactic:  that  of  hurrying  on  into  the  future  in  order  to  confirm  the  impossibility  of  love  in  the  present.  Already,  and  without  &quot;any-  thing&quot;  having  happened,  he  is  looking  back  on  this  would-be  something:  &quot;If  we  meet  again  in  another  two  or  three  years,  I  shall  bean  old,  old  man.  As  for  you,  you  will  have  entered  defin-  itively  upon  the  normal  course  of  your  life  and  nothing  will  remain  of  our  past.  ..  .&quot;  T'wo  years,  he  thought,  would  turn  an  old  man  into  an  old,  old  one;  while  &quot;normal&quot;  life  is  already  waiting  for  her  in  the  banal  shape  of  an  offi-  cer  of  hussars,  clanking  his  spurs  off-  stage  and  snorting  like  a  horse.  N.N.  Vsevolozhsky.  How  useful  the  thunder-  ous  uniform  was  to  the  gauntly  bent  civilian.  We  should  not,  by  this  stage,  still  be  thinking  of  Verochka,  the  naive,  unfor-  tunate  ward.  The  actress  who  embod-  ied  her  was  robust,  temperamental,  bo-  hemian.  She  was  married,  and  already  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  5,  1996  seeking  a  divorce;  she  would  marry  three  times  in  all.  Her  letters  have  not  survived.  Did  she  lead  him  on?  Was  she  a  little  in  love  with  him?  Was  she,  perhaps,  more  than  a  little  in  love  with  him,  yet  dismayed  by  his  expectation  of  failure,  his  voluptuous  renunciations?  Did  she,  perhaps,  feel  just  as  trapped  by  his  past  as  he  did?  If  for  him  love  had  always  meant  defeat,  why  should  it  be  any  different  with  her?  If  you  marry  a  foot  fetishist,  you  should  not  be  sur-  prised  to  find  him  curled  up  in  your  shoe  cupboard.  When  he  recalled  that  journey  in  letters  to  her,  he  made  oblique  refer-  ences  to  the  word  &quot;bolt.&quot;  Was  this  the  lock  on  the  compartment,  on  her  lips,  on  her  heart?  Or  the  lock  on  his  flesh?  &quot;You  know  what  the  predicament  of  Tantalus  was?&quot;  he  wrote.  The  predica-  ment  of  Tantalus  was  to  be  tortured  in  the  infernal  regions  by  endless  thirst;  he  was  up  to  his  neck  in  water,  but  whenever  he  bent  his  head  to  drink  the  river  would  run  away  from  him.  Are  we  to  conclude  from  this  that  he  tried  to  kiss  her,  but  that  whenever  he  advanced  she  retreated,  withdrawing  her  wet  mouth?  On  the  other  hand,  a  year  later,  when  everything  is  safe  and  stylized,  he  writes  this:  &quot;You  say,  at  the  end  of  your  letter,  I  kiss  you  warmly.&quot;  How?  Do  you  mean  as  you  did  then,  on  that  June  night,  in  the  railway  compartment?  If  I  live  a  hundred  years  I  will  never  for-  get  those  kisses.&quot;  May  has  become  June,the  timid  suitor  has  become  the  recipient  of  myriad  kisses,  the  bolt  has  been  slid  back  a  little.  Is  this  the  truth,  or  is  that  the  truth?  We,  now,  would  like  it  to  be  neat  then,  but  it  is  never  neat:  either  the  heart  drags  in  sex  or  sex  drags  in  the  heart.  3.  THE  DREAM  JOURNEY  E  travelled.  She  travelled.  But  they  did  not  travel;  never  again.  She  visited  him  at  his  estate,  she  swam  in  his  pond-'&quot;the  Undine  of  St.  Peters-  burg&quot;-and  when  she  left  he  named  the  room  in  which  she  had  slept  after  her.  He  kissed  her  hands,  he  kissed  her  feet.  They  met,  they  corresponded  un-  til  his  death,  after  which  she  protected  his  memory  from  vulgar  interpretation.  But  thirty  miles  was  all  they  travelled  together.  " b"THE  REVIVAL  They  could  have  travelled.  If  only  ..  .  if  only.  But  he  was  a  connoisseur  of  the  if-only,  and  so  they  did  travel.  They  trav-  elled  in  the  past  conditional.  She  married  for  the  second  time.  N.N.  Vsevolozhsky,  officer  of  hus-  sars,  clank,  clank.  When  she  asked  his  opinion  of  her  choice,  he  declined  to  play.  &quot;It  is  too  late  to  ask  for  my  opinion.  Le  win  est  tirt-il  faut  le  boire.&quot;  Was  she  asking  him,  artist  to  artist,  for  his  view  of  the  conventional  marriage  she  was  about  to  make  to  a  man  with  whom  she  had  little  in  common?  Or  was  it  more  than  this?  Was  she  proposing  her  own  if-only,  asking  him  to  sanction  the  jilting  of  her  fi-  ance\xc3\xa9,  or,  at  least,  inviting  him  to  muse  on  the  possibility  that  she  might?  But  Grandpa,  who  himself  had  never  married,  declines  either  to  sanc-  tionor  to  applaud.  Le  vin  est  faut  le  boire.  Does  he  have  ahabit  of  lapsing  into  foreign  phrases  at  key  emo-  tional  moments?  Do  French  and  Ital-  ian  provide  the  suave  euphemism  that  helps  him  evade?  Of  course,  if  he  had  sanctioned  a  late  withdrawal  from  her  second  mar-  riage,  that  would  have  let  in  too  much  reality,  let  in  the  present  tense.  He  closes  it  off:  drink  the  wine.  This  in-  struction  given,  fantasy  can  resume.  In  his  next  letter,  twenty  days  later,  he  writes,  &quot;For  my  part,  I  am  dream-  ing  about  how  good  it  would  be  to  travel  about-just  the  two  of  us-for  at  least  a  month,  and  in  such  a  way  that  no  one  would  know  who  or  where  we  were.&quot;  It  is  a  normal  dream  of  escape.  Alone  together,  anonymous,  time  on  one's  hands.  It  is  also,  of  course,  a  honeymoon.  And  where  would  the  sophisticated  artistic  class  go  for  their  honeymoon  if  not  to  4974616c79?  &quot;Just  imag-  ine  the  following  picture,&quot;  he  teases.  &quot;4974616c79  (perhaps  in  October,  the  best  month  in  4974616c79)  or  Rome.  Two  for-  eigners  in  travelling  clothes:  one  tall,  clumsy,  white-haired,  long-legged,  but  very  contented;  the  other  a  slender  lady  with  remarkable  dark  eyes  and  black  hair.  Let  us  suppose  her  con-  tented  as  well.  They  walk  about  the  town,  ride  in  gondolas.  They  visit  galleries,  churches,  and  so  on;  they  dine  together  in  the  evening;  they  are     at  the  theatre  together-and  then?  There  my  imagination  stops  respect-  fully.  Is  it  in  order  to  conceal  some-  thing,  or  because  there  is  nothing  to  conceal?&quot;  Did  his  imagination  stop  respect-  fully?  Ours  doesn't.  It  seems  pretty  plain  to  us  in  our  subsequent  century.  A  crumbling  gentleman  in  a  crumbling  __  city  on  a  surrogate  honeymoon  p  with  a  young  actress.  The  gon-  doliers  are  splish-sploshing  them  back  to  their  hotel  after  an  in-  timate  supper,  the  soundtrack  is  operetta,  and  we  need  to  be  told  \xc2\xa5  what  happens  next?  We  are  not  talking  about  reality,  so  the  feeble-  ness  of  elderly,  alcohol-weakened  flesh  is  not  an  issue;  we  are  very  safely  in  the  conditional  tense,  with  the  travelling  rug  tucked  round  us.  So  ...  if  only  ...  if  only  ...  then  you  would  have  fucked  her,  wouldn't  you?  No  de-  nying  it.  Elaborating  the  4974616c79-honeymoon  fantasy  while  she  is  still  between  hus-  bands  has  its  dangers.  Of  course,  you  have  again  renounced  her,  so  there  is  small  risk  that  by  exciting  her  imagina-  tion  you  might  find  her  outside  your  front  door  one  morning,  perched  on  a  travelling  trunk  and  coyly  fanning  her-  self  with  her  passport.  No;  the  more  real  danger  is  of  pain.  Renunciation  means  the  avoidance  of  love,  and  hence  of  pain,  but  even  in  this  avoidance  there  are  traps.  There  is  pain  to  be  had,  for  instance,  in  the  comparison  between  the  Venetian  capriccio  ofyour  respect-  ful  imagination  and  the  impending  reality  of  her  getting  disrespectfully  fucked  on  her  actual  honeymoon  by  an  officer  of  hussars,  N.  N.  Vsevolozh-  sky,  who  is  as  unfamiliar  with  the  Acca-  demia  as  he  is  with  the  unreliabilities  of  the  flesh.  What  heals  pain?  Time,  theold  wiseacres  respond.  You  know  better.  You  are  wise  enough  to  know  that  time  does  not  always  heal  pain.  Your  image  of  the  amatory  bonfire,  the  eyeball-  drying  flame  that  dies  to  sad  ashes,  needs  adjusting.  Try  instead  the  hissing  gas  jet  that  scorches,  if  you  will,  but  also  does  worse:  it  gives  light-jaundicing,  flat-shadowed,  and  remorseless,  the  sort  of  light  that  catches  an  old  man  on  a  provincial  platform  as  the  train  pulls  out,  a  valetudinarian  who  watches  a  yel-  low  window  and  a  twitching  hand  " b"66  withdraw  from  his  life,  who  walks  af-  ter  the  train  a  few  paces  as  it  curvesinto  invisibility,  who  fixes  his  eye  upon  the  red  lamp  of  the  guard's  wagon,  holds  on  that  until  itis  less  than  a  ruby  planet  in  the  night  sky,  then  turns  away  and  finds  himself  still  beneath  a  platform  lamp,  alone,  with  nothing  to  do  except  wait  out  the  hours  in  a  musty  hotel  pre-  tending  he  has  gained  when  truly  he  has  lost,  filling  his  sleeplessness  with  cozy  if-onlys,  and  who  then  returns  to  the  station  and  once  more  stands  alone,  in  a  kinder  light  but  to  make  a  crueller  journey,  back  along  those  thirty  miles  he  had  travelled  with  her  the  previous  night.  The  journey  from  Mtsensk  to  Oryol,  which  he  will  fetishize  for  the  rest  of  his  life,  is  always  shadowed  by  that  unrecorded  return  from  Oryol  to  Mtsensk.  So  he  proposes  a  second  dream  jour-  ney,  again  to  4974616c79.  By  now  she  is  mar-  ried,  a  change  of  status  which  is  not  an  interesting  subject  for  discussion.  Drink  the  wine.  She  is  going  to  4974616c79,  perhaps  with  her  husband,  though  travelling  companions  are  not  inquired  after.  He  approves  the  journey,  if  only  because  it  lets  him  offer  her  an  alternative;  not  a  rivalrous  honeymoon  this  time  but  a  trip  safely  in  the  painless  past  condi-  tional.  &quot;I  spent  ten  of  the  most  delight,  ful  days  in  Florence,  many,  many  years  ago.&quot;  This  use  of  time  anesthetizes  pain.  It  was  so  many,  many  years  ago  that  he  was  then  &quot;still  under  forty-  before  the  basis  for  life  became  renun-  ciation.  &quot;Florence  left  on  me  the  most  fascinating  and  poetic  impression-  even  though  I  was  there  alone.  What  it  would  have  been  like,  had  I  been  in  the  company  of  a  woman  who  was  un-  derstanding,  good,  and  beautiful-that  above  all!&quot;  This  is  safe.  The  fantasy  is  manage-  able,  his  gift  a  false  memory.  Later,  in  our  century,  the  political  leaders  of  his  country  would  specialize  in  airbrushing  people  from  history,  removing  their  photographic  traces.  Now  here  he  is,  bent  over  his  album  of  memories,  me-  ticulously  inserting  the  figure  of  a  pre-  vious  companion.  Paste  it  in,  that  pho-       tograph  of  the  timid,  appealing  Ver-  ochka,  while  the  lamplight  rejuvenates  your  white  hairinto  black  shadow.  4.  ATYASNAYA  POLYANA  SHORTLY  after  meeting  her,  he  had  gone  to  stay  with  Tolstoy,  who  took  him  out  shooting.  He  was  put  in  the  best  blind,  over  which  snipe  habitu-  ally  passed.  But  that  day  for  him  the  sky  remained  empty.  Every  so  often,  a  shot  would  ring  out  from  Tolstoy's  blind;  then  another;  then  another.  All  the  snipe  were  flying  to  Tolstoy's  gun.  It  seemed  typical.  He  himself  shot  a  single  bird,  which  the  dogs  failed  to  find.  Tolstoy  despised  him  from  the  start;  thought  him  ineffectual,  vacillating,  un-  manly,  a  frivolous  socializer  and  a  de-  spicable  Westernizer;  hugged  him,  loathed  him,  spent  a  week  in  Dijon  withhim,  quarrelled  with  him,  forgave  him,  valued  him,  visited  him,  chal-  lenged  him  to  a  duel,  hugged  him,  de-  spised  him.  This  is  how  Tolstoy  ex-  pressed  sympathy  when  he  lay  dying  in  [REDACTED]:  &quot;The  news  of  your  illness  has  caused  me  much  sorrow,  especially  when  I  was  assured  it  was  serious.  I  re-  alized  how  much  I  cared  for  you.  I  felt  that  I  should  be  much  grieved  if  you  were  to  die  before  me.&quot;  Tolstoy  atthis  time  would  have  de-  spised  his  taste  for  renunciation.  Later,  Tolstoy  himself  became  a  renunciator,  railing  at  the  lusts  of  the  flesh  and  seek-  ing  to  hug  a  Christian  peasant  simplic-  ity.  It  didn't  work:  he  wasn't  much  good  at  it.  Some  might  think  him  a  fraud,  afake  renunciator;  but  it  was  more  that  he  lackedthe  skills.  His  flesh  declined  renunciation.  Three  decades  later,  he  died  at  a  railway  station.  His  last  words  were  not  &quot;The  bell  rang,  and  ciao,  as  the  Italians  say.&quot;  Does  the  suc-  cessful  renunciator  envy  his  unsuccess-  ful  counterpart?  There  are  ex-smokers  who  decline  the  offered  cigarette  but  say,  &quot;Blow  the  smoke  in  my  direction.&quot;  She  was  travelling;  she  was  working;  she  was  married.  He  asked  her  to  send  him  a  plastercast  of  her  hand.  He  had  kissed  the  real  thing  so  many  times;  had  kissed  animagined  version  of  the  real  thing  in  almost  every  letter  he  wrote  her.  Now  he  could  lay  his  lips  on  a  plaster  version.  Is  plaster  nearer  to  flesh  than  air?  Or  did  the  plaster  turn  his  love  and  her  flesh  into  a  memorial?  " b"There  is  an  irony  in  this  request:  nor-  mally  itis  the  writer  whose  creative  hand  is  cast  in  plaster;  and  normally  by  the  time  this  is  done  he  is  dead.  So  he  proceeded  deeper  into  old  age,  knowing  that  she  was-had  already  been-his  last  love.  And,  since  form  was  his  business,  did  he  atthis  time  re-  member  his  first  love?  He  was  a  spe-  cialist  in  the  matter.  Did  he  reflect  that  first  love  fixes  a  life  forever?  Either  it  impels  you  to  repeat  the  same  kind  of  love  and  fetishizes  some  of  its  compo-  nents  or  else  it  is  there  as  warning,  trap,  counterexample.  His  own  first  love  had  taken  place  fifty  years  before.  Shehad  been  a  cer-  tain  Princess  Shakhovskaya.  He  was  fourteen,  she  was  in  her  twenties;  he  adored  her,  she  treated  him  like  a  child.  This  puzzled  him  until  the  day  he  found  out  why.  She  was  already  his  father's  mistress.  The  year  after  he  shot  snipe  with  Tolstoy,  he  visited  Yasnaya  [REDACTED]  again.  It  was  Sonya  Tolstoy's  birthday,  and  the  house  was  full  of  guests.  He  proposed  that  they  should  all  recount  the  happiest  moment  of  their  lives.  When  his  own  turn  in  his  own  game  arrived,  he  announced,  with  an  exalted  air  and  a  familiar  melancholy  smile,  that  the  happiest  moment  of  his  life  was  the  moment  of  love,  that  instant  when  the  eyes  met.  &quot;This  has  happened  to  me  once,  perhaps  twice.&quot;  Tolstoy  found  this  answer  irritating.  Later,  when  the  young  people  in-  sisted  upon  dancing,  he  demonstrated  what  was  new  in  [REDACTED].  He  took  off  his  jacket,  stuck  his  thumbs  inhis  arm-  pits,  and  capered  about,  legs  kicking,  head  waggling,  white  hair  flopping,  as  the  household  clapped  and  cheered;  he  panted,  capered,  panted,  capered,  then  fell  over  and  collapsed  into  an  armchair.  It  was  a  great  success.  Tolstoy  wrote  in  his  journal,  &quot;Turgenev-cancan.  Sad.&quot;  &quot;Once,  perhaps  twice.&quot;  Was  she  the  &quot;perhaps  twice&quot;?  Perhaps.  In  his  penul-  timate  letter,  he  kisses  her  hands.  In  his  last  letter,  written  in  failing  pencil,  he  does  not  offer  kisses.  He  writes  instead,  &quot;I  do  not  change  in  my  affections-and  I  shall  keep  exactly  the  same  feeling  for  you  until  the  end.&quot;  This  end  came  six  months  later.  The  plastercast  of  her  hand  is  now  in  the  The-  atre  Museum  of  St.  Petersburg,  the  city  where  he  had  first  kissed  the  original."