WHEN  they  received  y  the  broker's  mes-  sage  that  achild  \y  was  available,  Ar-  Z4  vin  and  Hella  Rath  went  home  and  made  love  with  their  clothes  on,  in  a  solemn,  methodical  way,  as  though  mimicking  conception.  Afterward  they  took  off  their  clothes  and  lay  exhausted,  and  speculated  about  the  broker's  child.  He  called  himself  abroker.  But  he  was  probably  just  an  opportunist  who  knew  someone  as  desperate  to  sell  a  child  as  they  were  desperate  to  buy  one.  Their  bare  skin  was  an  alarming  color.  It  was  the  lurid  light  from  the  sunset  over  the  western  suburbs.  The  distant  mountain  range  was  actually  a  mirage  made  by  a  low,  dense  cloud  of  suspended  dust  that  had  turned  the  sun  into  a  misshapen  solitaire  the  color  of  dried  blood,  which  lighted  their  bodies  with  garish  blooms  of  good  health  that  mocked  their  sterility.  Most  of  their  friends  were  infected,  and-though  it  was  never  simple-all  of  them  had  found  children  for  themselves.  The  Raths  had  tested  positive,  and  it  made  them  single-minded  in  their  urgent  search  for  a  child.  Eight  times  they  had  been  notified,  and  so  the  lovemaking  had  become  a  ritual,  but  each  time  something  had  gone  wrong.  They  were  still  hopeful,  even  though  now  the  risk  was  great:  it  meant  a  trip  across  the  river  over  that  awful  bridge  to  the  neighborhood  on  43616e616461Bank.  &quot;God,  I  hope  it  works  out,&quot;  Hella  said  in  a  pious  tone,  adding,  like  an  im-  ploring  one-word  prayer,  &quot;Please.&quot;  &quot;We'll  be  fine,&quot;  Arvin  said.  &quot;I  can  test  for  anything.&quot;  That  was  one  of  the  challenges.  Children  were  available,  but  were  they  healthy?  Some  had  parasites,  others  had  drugs  in  their  system;  some  were  dis-  eased  or  brain-damaged,  some  were  un-  balanced.  Many  had  no  papers-twice   the  Raths  had  been  caught  that  way,  offered  smuggled  infants  by  brokers.  You  could  not  trust  anyone,  which  was  why  Arvin  had  discreetly  advertised  for  his  own  broker  and  ignored  all  the  ones  who  had  come  to  him  through  the  net-  work,  having  heard  that  the  Raths  were  desperate.  When  Hella  told  him  that  they  had  to  go  across  the  bridge,  he  did  not  wince  as  their  friends  had  at  the  idea  of  43616e616461Bank.  Hella  said,  &quot;It's  one  of  those  neighborhoods.&quot;  Arvin  said  nothing.  He  had  a  plan.  You  needed  a  plan.  The  East  Bank  po-  lice  were  private,  but  that  was  only  part  of  the  problem.  Many  of  the  neigh-  borhoods  were  sealed,  like  fortress  vil-  lages,  and  were  dangerous  to  outsiders.  These  days,  only  humans  were  worth  money,  and  so  some  were  valuable  and  some  were  cheap,  and  a  child  might  cost  anything.  The  prospect  of  getting  a  child  gave  the  Raths  the  courage  to  risk  the  bridge.  They  knew  that  what  they  were  doing  was  illegal,  that  what  they  were  planning  was  an  abduction.  Yet  a  child  meant  ev-  erything  to  them,  not  only  because  they  were  sterile:  a  child  was  the  future.  They  had  not  told  anyone  about  the  broker.  Which  of  their  friends  knew  anything  about  43616e616461Bank,  anyway?  The  previous  eight  disappointments  had  been  shared  and  piteously  clucked  over.  Even  the  persistent  party  tallk-  &quot;We  got  one  in  Poland,&quot;  &quot;The  Gold-  stones  found  one  in  Mexico,&quot;  all  that-  did  not  draw  them  out.  You  might  have  thought  the  talk  was  about  puppies.  The  Raths,  who  hadhad  many,  were  sick  of  pets  and  were  no  longer  com-  forted  by  warm  dogs.  Nor  were  they  dismayed  by  the  adoption  stories  that  turned  out  badly:  the  Bences'  Romanian  infant,  who  had  to  be  destroyed  after  a  year;  the  Fee-  ricks'  boy  Ivor,  from  [REDACTED],  who  had  shot  himself  in  a  motel  on  his  twelfth  birthday;  all  the  runaways,  adoptees  who  had  fled  to  places  like  43616e616461Bank  and  lived  like  the  drifters  orthe  squatters.  &quot;I  can  test  for  epilepsy,  I  can  find  vi-  ruses,  I  canlook  into  heredity,  I  can  di-  agnose  depression  and  potential  mal-  function,  I  can  do  brain  scans,&quot;  Arvin  said.  &quot;I  can  find  anything.&quot;  He  had  confidence  in  his  tests,  but  where  was  the  child  who  could  pass  them?  Five  times  he  had  examined  in-  fants  in  brokers'  offices  and  found  dys-  function  or  systemic  problems.  Arvin  was  a  lighting  engineer,  Hella  an  architect.  Their  apartment,  an  entire  floor  of  a  Kingsbury  tower,  was  vast  and  beautiful;  it  lacked  a  child,  but  that  was  all.  They  had  the  virus,  but  that  wasno  disgrace.  Half  the  people  they  knew  had  it.  You  were  inconvenienced  by  it;  you  were  sterile;  you  lost  your  teeth;  you  got  implants.  A  piercing  peep-peep  filled  the  room.  Someone  was  calling.  Hella  slipped  the  phone  over  her  left  hand  and  activated  it.  &quot;Hello?&quot;  &quot;Calling  the  Raths,&quot;  the  voice  said.  &quot;This  is  Doc.&quot;  The  broker,  Hella  mouthed  to  Arvin,  and  then  increased  the  speaker  volume  and  said,  &quot;Is  itstill  on?&quot;  &quot;Sooner  than  I  thought.  Can  you  come  first  thing  tomorrow?  Say  six?&quot;  That  threw  them,  and  Arvin's  face  was  pale  and  doubtful.  &quot;Why  so  early?&quot;  Hella  said,  prompted  by  Arvin's  suspicious  stare.  &quot;The  bridge  will  be  clear  and  it'll  be  easier  for  you  tofind  us.&quot;  &quot;We're  not  finding  you,&quot;  Arvin  said  suddenly,  facing  the  tiny  phone.  &quot;You  find  us-in  Elmo.  The  station  parking  lot.  I've  got  ared  van.&quot;  The  puzzled  voice  at  the  other  end  said,  &quot;A  van?&quot;  &quot;For  my  instruments.  I'm  running  some  tests.&quot;  3  3  FILIP  PAGO  &quot;You're  better  off  on  the  surface  streets.&quot;  &quot;Elmo,&quot;  Arvin  said,  insisting.  What  followed  was  not  so  much  si-  lence  as  scarcely  audible  consternation,  like  someone  mumbling  to  himself  or  to  another  person  close  by-a  lengthy  murmuring  pause.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  the  man  said  at  last.  &quot;How  doyou  know  Elmo?&quot;  Hella  asked  afterward.  &quot;I  was  there  about  twenty  years  ago.  We  had  a  cleaner  who  lived  in  Elmo.  It  was  marginal  then.  But  can  it  have  changed  that  much?&quot;  A  they  drove  across  the  bridge,  43616e616461Bank  seemed  greener,  denser,  less  settled  to  Arvin  than  it  had  all  those  years  ago.  On  the  horizon  ahead,  the  sun  at  dawn  was  the  same  dusty  solitaire  they  had  seen  last  evening,  but  there  were  trees  here,  long  grass,  and  the  old  style  of  houses,  and  fences  that  were  low  and  unthreatening.  There  were  empty  streets  where  they  had  expected  savages.  &quot;I  feel  right  at  home,&quot;  Arvin  said.  As  he  spoke  they  cleared  the  end  of  the  ramp  and  the  roadside  trees  ceased  to  drum  against  the  sides  of  the  van,  and  then,  where  they  least  expected  it,  near  an  embankment  wall  and  a  sign  directing  them  to  Elmo,  there  was  a  checkpoint  and  a  policeman.  Arvin  slowed  the  car  to  a  crawl  as  he  approached  the  barrier.  &quot;Howdy,&quot;  the  policeman  said  in  a  friendly  way.  The  steel  barrier  was  mesh.  Such  barriers  had  been  designed  to  snare  tanks  and  armored  vehicles  and  rogue  trucks.  The  policeman  smiled  and  took  a  step  back  to  see  the  van's  plates.  His  name  tag  was  printed  &quot;Seely.&quot;  He  was  casual  in  the  way  of  contract  police.  His  boots  weren't  shined,  his  badge  was  slightly  crooked.  They  were  all  overworked,  nor  were  they  paid  as  well  as  the  state  troopers.  But  the  sight  of  the  policeman-particularly  when  Arvin  saw  that  he  was  with  a  child-  was  reassuring.  The  child  was  just  inside  the  check-  point  booth,  sitting  on  a  stool,  and  even  though  it  was  a  low  one,  his  feet  didn't  touch  the  ground.  He  was  kicking  them,  driving  his  heels  against  the  stool's  hard  legs  with  a  frenzied  East  Bank  vitality  as  he  stabbed  at  the  wall,  writing  &quot;RONG  DoOGZ.&quot;  &quot;Where  you  headed?&quot;  Arvin  hesitated.  The  policeman  said,  &quot;I'm  asking  you  for  your  own  good.&quot;  &quot;Elmo.  Is  there  a  travel  advisory?&quot;  &quot;Not  today.  But  you  want  to  be  real  careful.&quot;  Gesturing  with  his  weapon,  he  pointed  to  the  back  of  the  van.  &quot;You  got  a  load?&quot;  &quot;We're  empty,&quot;  Arvin  said.  &quot;See  you  got  a  little  helper.&quot;  When  the  boy  heard  this,  his  fleshy  lips  parted  and  his  face  drew  tight,  mak-  ing  his  teeth  protrude.  They  were  new  teeth,  just  grown,  and  bulked  in  his  mouth,  looking  large  and  unused.  &quot;Sure  do,&quot;  the  policeman  said,  and  waved  them  on.  They  reached  the  surface  streets  and  had  their  first  sight  of  local  people-children,  probably  kids  of  drifters  and  squatters.  But  they  were  not  scavenging,  as  people  said.  They  looked  just  like  the  privileged  children  across  the  river  who  played  outside,  ex-  cept  that  these  were  much  younger.  There  were  terrible  stories  of  brokers  who  had  snatched  such  children,  say-  ing,  It's  not  kidnapping-it's  a  form  of  rescue,  and  found  themselves  with  vi-  cious,  diseased,  or  uncontrollable  chil-  dren  who  had  no  papers  and  had  to  be  impounded.  &quot;Let's  make  this  quick,&quot;  Arvin  said  as  he  pulled  into  the  Elmo  parking  lot  and  saw  a  cluster  of  people  waiting  there.  A  man  in  a  khaki  shirt  and  khaki  trousers,  perhaps  an  old  Army  uni-  form,  was  surrounded  by  about  a  dozen  children,  mostly  boys,  none  of  them  more  than  ten  or  eleven.  Several  of  the  children  watched  Arvin  and  Hella  in-  tently  as  they  parked  the  van.  The  oth-  ers  were  playing.  One  boy  was  operating  a  handheld  instrument  and  earphones  a  game,  perhaps.  They  all  seemed  to  be  shouting  much  too  loudly,  and  that  was  how  Hella  had  been  able  to  tell  their  ages-their  voices  hadn't  broken.  And  their  teeth,too,  were  large  and  ill-fitting  and  crooked.  Nothing  about  these  chil-  dren  was  more  upsetting  to  Hella  than  these  adult-sized  teeth  in  their  small,  ten-year-old  jaws.  Arvin  loathed  the  sight  of  the  man  with  these  children,  the  exploiter  and  the  urchins.  &quot;I'm  Doc,&quot;  said  the  man  in  khaki,  shuffling  forward  through  the  crowd  of  children.  &quot;Can  I  see  your  L.D.s?&quot;  89  He  was  older  than  they  had  imag-  ined  him-too  old,  perhaps,  to  be  the  father  of  anyof  these  children,  but  you  never  knew.  As  Arvin  showed  his  [REDACTED],  a  boy  with  long,  stringy  green-tinted  hair  crept  up  close  to  him,  staring  at  his  phone.  &quot;I'm  on  an  open  channel,&quot;  Arvin  said,  so  as  to  caution  them  all.  And  then,  &quot;Can  we  see  the  child?  I  want  to  run  some  tests.&quot;  Doe  sat  down  on  a  bench  and  tapped  his  own  phone.  He  was  watched  in-  tently  by  several  other  boys;  the  one  with  long  hair,  perhaps  the  eldest-  twelve  at  most-wore  big,  borrowed-  looking  shoes,  probably  expensive,  though  they  did  not  fit,  and  a  shirt  that  hung  to  his  knees  like  a  dress.  A  girl  walked  behind  him  and,  without  meeting  her  eyes,  the  boy  turned  and  reached  out  and  pinched  her  arm.  He  stared  at  her,  defying  her  to  scream.  But  shedid  not  ery  out.  She  pressed  her  lips  together  and  squinted  in  dumb  suffering.  Surely  Doc  had  seen  the  boy  do  this?  But  the  man  said  nothing.  The  children  looked  bored  andim-  patient  and  captive-they  did  not  want  to  be  here,  Hella  could  tell.  They  looked  warm  and  thirsty.  She  now  remembered  the  child  at  the  checkpoint  scribbling  &quot;RONG  DOGZ&quot;  on  the  wall  of  the  police-  man's  booth.  Hella  said,  &quot;Are  they  for  sale,  too?&quot;  Shehad  spoken  softly,  so  that  only  the  man  would  hear,  yet  the  long-haired  boy  had  heard,  and  he  gave  her  a  sud-  den  look  of  scowling  malevolence,  and  hissed  through  his  clamped-together  teeth.  Hella  was  so  startled  that  she  gasped  for  breath.  &quot;Here  he  is,&quot;  Doc  said.  Hella  was  searching  among  the  big-  toothed  children  when  she  felt  her  leg  being  clutched,  and  she  turned  to  see  a  small  child  trying  to  hug  her.  He  was  bigger  than  she  expected  but  still  so  much  younger  than  any  of  these  other  children  that  he  seemed  charming  and  infantile.  &quot;In  perfect  shape,&quot;  Doc  was  saying.  &quot;Mixed  race.  Parents  couldn't  keep  him.  They  need  the  money.  Three  isn't  old.&quot;  Again  shethought,  Who  are  we  tak-  ing  him  from?  but  then  she  recalled  the  nursery,  already  furnished  with  a  crib,  a  high  chair,  a  scale,  a  cupboard  of  toys,  sheets  and  pillows  and  stuffed  animals,  90  the  rocking  horse,  all  the  accumulated  paraphernalia  of  their  many  attempts  to  find  a  child.  Hella  knew  she  was  being  sentimental,  for  part  of  her  yearning  to  have  a  child  was  also  her  fantasy  of  cud-  dling  an  infant,  feeding  it,  changing  it,  teaching  it  to  speak  and  walk.  Yet  there  was  a  logic  in  his  being  three-it  was  as  though  this  were  the  child  they  had  be-  gun  to  search  for  three  years  ago,  when  they  abandoned  their  last  pets.  &quot;He's  very  bright.  You  can  give  him  any  test  you  like,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;It'll  be  easier,  you  know.  Being  older,  he'll  be  more  cooperative.&quot;  Arvin  was  nodding:  he  accepted  this  as  reasonable.  &quot;He's  got  papers,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;And  if  the  tests  don't  work  out  you  can  call  the  whole  thing  off.&quot;  Arvin  made  a  familiar  gesture  that  meant  to  Hella:  What  have  we  got  to  lose?  The  child  was  clean;  he  seemed  affectionate;  he  was  lightly  dressed  this  warm  morning,  in  a  shirt  and  shorts.  He  had  teeth,  too-big  teeth.  When  the  child  tried  to  kiss  Hella,  Arvin  stepped  forward  to  protect  her,  but  Hella  let  herself  be  kissed,  and  then  hugged  the  child.  She  longed  for  the  child,  but  didn't  want  to  allow  herself  to  feel  any  longing.  If  Arvin  cleared  him,  then  she  would  claim  him  and  em-  brace  him  properly.  &quot;What's  his  name?&quot;  Arvin  asked.  Before  Doc  could  answer,  the  child  said,  &quot;My  name  is  Corbin&quot;-he  had  heard,  he  understood,  he  was  so  alert.  His  teeth  were  gleaming.  &quot;I  want  to  go  home  with  you.  I  want  you  to  be  my  mummy.&quot;  Hella  led  him  to  Arvin.  She  knew  he  wanted  to  begin  the  tests.  Arvin  said,  &quot;He's  three?  He  looks  older-six,  at  least.&quot;  &quot;Big  for  his  age,&quot;  Doc  said.  And  then,  &quot;I'm  going  to  have  to  take  your  phones.&quot;  «Wait  a  minute,&quot;  Arvin  said.  He  stepped  back  in  a  protective  reflex.  &quot;Or  else  how  about  moving  some  money  into  my  account?&quot;  &quot;What  is  this?&quot;&quot;  Arvin  said,  and  fear  strengthened  him.  Something  was  wrong.  A  small  boy  gripped  his  wrist  suddenly  from  behind  and  snagged  the  phone.  Arvin  turned  and  saw  that  Hella  had  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  16,  1996  been  surrounded,  and  that  Doc  was  smiling.  Hella  calledout,  &quot;No!&quot;-she  was  frantic-and  her  scream  seemed  to  work:  the  small  toothy  children  and  their  keeper  jostled  and  scattered  just  as  a  police  car  skidded  toward  them  in  the  parking  lot.  A  voice  exploded  from  a  loud-  speaker,  &quot;Stand  back!&quot;  It  was  the  policeman,  Seely,  throw-  ing  open  the  doors  of  his  armored  car,  and  Arvin  and  Hella  scrambled  in.  &quot;Didn't  I  tell  you  to  be  careful?&quot;  The  insignia  on  the  brim  of  his  helmet  was  chipped.  Arvin  said  gratefully,  &quot;How  did  you  findus?&quot;  &quot;You  think  it  was  hard?&quot;  They  were  still  thanking  him  when  they  noticed  the  small  head  of  a  small  boy  in  the  front  seat.  The  child  turned  to  face  Arvin,  showing  his  teeth.  It  was  the  boy  who  had  been  kicking  the  stool  in  the  checkpoint  booth.  Arvin  said,  &quot;Wait.  The  van's  back  there.&quot;  The  policeman  said  nothing.  He  was   driving  fast  down  an  alley  between  two  tall  buildings.  &quot;Where  are  you  taking  us?&quot;  The  policeman  started  to  say  some-  thing.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said,  when  the  small  boy  beside  him  interrupted  furiously,  saying,  &quot;Shut  up!&quot;  Arvin  realized  that  the  boy  was  speaking  to  the  policeman,  not  to  him,  and  he  spoke  with  such  anger  that  the  policeman  flinched.  &quot;Sorry,&quot;  the  policeman  said.  He  kept  driving.  The  place  was  blighted.  It  was  not  just  the  decayed  buildings  and  broken  streets;  there  was  not  a  single  green  thing.  The  trees  had  all  been  cut  down,  randomly  and  in  a  wasteful  way,  not  for  fuel-the  limbs  were  strewn  about.  The  grass  had  been  trampled  or  poisoned  or  burned;  the  place  had  been  mindlessly  vandalized.  It  had  the  look  of  violence:  broken  signs,  uprooted  poles,  smashed  windows,  scribbled  and  misspelled  obscenities  and  big  bewildering  scrawls:  &quot;RAT  ROOLZ&quot;  and  &quot;RONG  DOGZ&quot;  and  &quot;YUNGSTAZ&quot;  and  &quot;DANJAH  FREEX&quot;  and  &quot;NO  MERSI  and  &quot;WORRYERZ.&quot;  Arvin  muttered  the  words  disgustedly.  Ahead  was  a  warehouse,  and  there  seemed  to  be  at  least  one  face  at  each  window-some  had  more,  crowding  to  see  out.  The  wide  warehouse  door  swung  open  to  admit  the  car,  and  inside  Ar-  vin  could  see  the  broker,  Doc.  He  was  seated  on  a  ridiculous  small  chair,  among  the  children.  The  car  doors  were  snatched  open,  and  the  children  crowded  forward  with  spears  made  of  sharpened  steel  rods  and  poked  at  Arvin  and  Hella.  They  got  out  of  the  car  protesting  and  pleading.  The  child  with  stringy  hair  and  the  long  dresslike  shirt  held  a  weapon  and  said  in  a  quacking  voice  to  the  police-  man,  &quot;Why  didn't  you  blindfold  them?&quot;  The  policeman  said,  in  a  tone  of  respectful  explanation,  &quot;Because  blind-  folds  spook  them.&quot;  &quot;Blindfold  them  now!&quot;  the  child  said.  &quot;Wrong  dogs!&quot;  Doce  said  softly,  as  though  to  calm  the  children,  &quot;You  want  me  to  put  out  the  ransom  call?&quot;  &quot;Go  away,&quot;  the  first  boy  said  and  turned  to  Hella,  and  as  the  stinging  blindfold  went  over  her  eyes  she  had  a  last  look  at  the  big,  malevolent  teeth  that  had  frightened  her  back  at  the  parking  lot  when  she  asked,  &quot;Are  they  for  sale,  too&quot;&quot;  Another  child  began  to  screech,  &quot;Get  out!  Get  out!  Leave  us  alone!  No  mercy!&quot;  In  their  darkness,  afraid  and  unable  to  move,  Arvin  and  Hella  heard  the  two  men  leaving,  muttering  as  they  went  out  the  door,  and  the  large  door  shutting,  an  eclipse  of  light  and  sound  that  Hella  could  imagine  through  her  blindfold.  The  children  came  closer.  She  could  sense  their  damp  faces  and  heard  them  breathing  eagerly  through  their  mouths,  like  warm  dogs.  Hella  heard  a  child's  voice  say,  &quot;This  one  is  mine,&quot;  and  she  cried  out  as  the  small  fingers  touched  her.  