 b"    FICTION  PRIVACY  BY  RICHARD  FORD \n  HIS  was  at  a  time  when  my  marriage  was  still  happy.  We  were  liv-  ing  in  a  large  city  in  the  [REDACTED].  It  was  winter.  February.  The  coldest  month.  I  was,  of  course,  still  try-  ing  to  write,  and  my  wife  was  working  as  a  translator  for  a  small  publishing  com-  pany  that  specialized  in  Czech  scientific  papers.  We  had  been  married  for  ten  years  and  were  still  enjoying  the  strange,  exhila-  rating  illusion  that  we  had  finally  survived  the  worst  of  life's  hardships.  The  apartment  we  rented  was  in  the  old  factory  area,  on  the  south  end  of  the  city,  the  living  space  only  a  great  empty  room  with  tall  windows  front  and  back,  and  almost  no  electric  light.  The  natural  light  was  all.  A  famous  avant-garde  the-  atre  director  had  lived  in  the  room  before  and  put  on  his  jagged,  nihilistic  plays  there,  so  that  all  the  walls  were  painted  black  and  along  one  were  wooden  riser  seats  for  his  small,  disaffected  audiences.  Our  bed-my  wife's  and  mine-was  in  one  dark  corner  where  we  arranged  some  of  the  old  black  canvas  scenery  drops  for  our  privacy,  though,  of  course,  there  was  no  one  for  us  to  need  privacy  from.  Each  night  when  my  wife  came  back  from  her  work,  we  would  go  out  into  the  cold,  shining  streets  and  find  a  restaurant  to  have  our  meal  in.  Later  we  would  stop  for  an  hour  in  a  bar  and  have  coffee  or  brandy,  and  talk  intensely  about  the  trans-  lations  my  wife  was  then  working  on,  though  never  (blessedly)  about  the  work  I  was  by  then  already  failing  at.  Our  wish,  needless  to  say,  was  to  stay  out  of  the  apartment  as  long  as  we  could.  For  not  only  was  there  almost  no  lightin-  side  but  each  night  at  seven  the  building's  ownerwould  turn  off  the  heat,  so  that  by  ten,  even  on  our  floor-the  highest-it  was  too  cold  to  be  anywhere  but  in  bed,  piled  over  with  blankets,  barely  able  to  move.  My  wife  at  that  time  was  working  long  hours  and  was  always  fatigued,  and  although  sometimes  we  would  come  home  a  little  drunk  and  make  love  in  the  dark  bed  un-  der  blankets,  most  times  she  would  fall  straight  into  bed  exhausted  and  be  snor-  ing  before  I  could  climb  in  beside  her.  And  so  it  happened  that  on  many  nights  that  winter,  in  the  cold,  large,  nearly  empty  room,  I  would  be  awake,  of-  ten  wide  awake,  from  the  strong  coffee  we  had  drunk.  And  often  I  would  simply  walk  the  floor  from  window  to  window,  looking  out  into  the  night,  down  to  the  vacant  street  or  up  into  the  ghostly  sky  that  shone  with  the  shimmery  luminance  of  the  city's  buildings,  buildings  I  could  not  even  see.  Often  I  had  a  blanket  or  sometimes  two  of  them  around  my  shoul-  ders,  and  I  wore  the  rough  heavy  socks  I'd  kept  from  when  I  was  a  boy.  It  was  on  sucha  cold  night  that  through  the  windows  at  the  back  of  the  flat,  win-  dows  that  gaveout  first  to  an  alleyway,  then  farther  across  aspace  where  a  wire  factory  had  been  demolished,  providing  a  view  of  buildings  on  the  street  be-  side  ours-I  saw  inside  a  long,  yellow-lit  apartment  the  figure  of  a  woman  slowly  undressing,  for  all  appearances  oblivious  to  the  world  outside  the  window  glass.  Because  of  the  distance  I  could  not  see  her  well  or  at  all  clearly,  could  only  see  that  she  was  small  in  stature  and  seem-  ingly  thin,  with  closely  cropped  dark  hair-a  petite  woman  in  every  sense.  The  yellow  light  in  the  room  where  she  was  seemed  to  blaze,  and  made  her  skin  bronze  and  shiny,  and  her  movements  through  the  window  appeared  stylized  and  slightly  unreal,  like  the  movements  of  a  silhouette  or  in  an  old  cinema.  I,  though,  alone  there  in  the  frigid  dark,  wrapped  in  blankets  that  covered  my  head  like  a  shawl,  and  with  my  wife  sleep-  ing  a  few  short  paces  away-I  was  rapt  by  this  sight.  At  first  I  moved  close  to  the  glass,  close  enough  to  feel  the  cold  on  my  cheeks.  But  then,  sensing  I  might  be  noticed  even  at  that  remote  distance,  I  slipped  back  again  into  the  room.  Even-  tually,  I  went  to  the  corner  and  clicked  off  the  small  lamp  my  wifekept  beside  our  bed,  so  that  I  was  totally  hidden  in  the  dark.  And  after  another  few  minutes  I  went  to  a  drawer  and  found  the  pair  of  sil-  ver  opera  glasses  that  the  theatre  direc-  tor  had  left,  and  took  them  near  the  win-  dow  and  watched  the  woman  across  the  space  of  darkness  from  my  own  space  of  darkness.  And  I  do  not  know  all  that  I  thought.  Undoubtedly  I  was  aroused.  Undoubtedly  I  was  thrilled  by  the  secrecy  of  watching  out  of  the  darkness.  Undoubtedly  I  loved  the  very  illicitness  of  it,  of  my  wife  sleeping  nearby  and  knowing  nothing  of  what  I  was  doing,.  It  is  also  possible  I  even  liked  the  cold  as  it  surrounded  me,  as  complete  as  the  night  itself,  may  even  have  felt  that  the  sight  of  the  woman-whom  I  took  to  be  young  and  lacking  caution  or  discreetness-  held  me  somehow,  insulated  me,and  made  the  world  itself  stop  and  be  perfectly  expressible  as  two  poles  connected  by  a  line  of  vision.  I  am  sure  now  that  all  of  this  had  to  do  with  my  impending  failures.  Nothing  more  happened.  Though  in  the  nights  to  come  I  stayed  awake  to  watch  the  woman,  letting  my  wife  go  off  to  sleep  in  her  fatigue.  Each  night  for  a  week  following,  the  woman  would  appear  at  her  window  and  slowly  disrobe  in  her  room  (a  room  I  never  tried  to  imagine,  al-  though  on  the  wall  behind  her  was  what  looked  like  a  drawing  of  a  springing  deer).  Once  her  clothes  were  shed  away  expos-  ing  her  bony  shoulders  and  small  breasts  and  thin  legs  and  ribcage  and  modest,  slightly  rounded  stomach,  the  woman  would  for  a  time  cast  about  the  room  in  the  bronze  light,  window  to  window,  do-  ing  what  seemed  to  me  a  kind  of  slow,  ritual  dance  or  a  pattern  of  possibly  the-  atrical  movements,  rising  and  bowing  and  extending  her  arms,  archingher  neck,  while  making  her  hands  perform  graceful  Tilting  gestures  I  didn't  understand  and  did  not  try  to,  taken  as  I  was  by  her  naked-  ness  and  by  the  sight  on  occasion  of  the  dark  swatch  of  hair  between  her  legs.  It  was  all  arousal  and  secrecy  and  illicitness,  and  really  nothing  else.  This  I  did  for  a  week,  as  I  said,  and  then  I  stopped.  Simply  one  night,  draped  again  in  blankets,  I  went  to  the  window  with  my  opera  glasses,  observed  the  lights  on  Z  across  the  vacant  space.  For  a  while  I  saw  \xc2\xa7  no  one.  And  then  for  no  particular  reason  &amp;  I  turned  and  got  into  bed  with  my  wife,  FILIP     " b"warm  and  smelling  ofbrandy  and  sweat  and  sleep  under  her  blankets,  and  went  to  sleep  myself,  never  thinking  to  look  through  the  window  again.  Though  one  afternoon,  a  week  after  I  had  ceased  watching  through  the  window,  I  left  my  desk  in  a  moment  of  frustration  and  seemingly  pointless  despair,  and  stalked  out  into  the  winter  daylight  and  up  along  the  row  of  fashionable  businesses  where  the  old  buildings  were  being  re-  styled  as  dress  shops  and  successful  artists'  galleries.  I  walked  right  to  the  river,  clogged  then  with  great  gray  squares  of  ice.  I  walked  on  to  the  university  section,  nearly  to  where  my  wife  was  at  that  hour  working.  And  then,  as  the  light  was  fail-  ing,  I  started  back  toward  my  street,  my  face  hard  with  cold,  my  shoulders  stiff,  my  gloveless  hands  frozen  and  red.  As  I  turned  a  corner  to  take  a  quicker  way  to-  ward  my  block,  I  found  that  I  was  unex-  pectedly  passing  before  the  building  into  which  I  had  for  days  been  spying.  Some-  thing  about  it  made  me  know  it,  though  I  had  never  actually  walked  there  or  even  seen  it  in  daylight.  And,  just  at  that  mo-  ment,  letting  herself  into  the  building's  tall  front  door  was  the  woman  I  had  watched  for  those  several  nights  and  taken  pleasure  and  secret  consolation  from.  I  knew  her  face,  naturally-small  and  round  and,  as  I  saw,  impassive.  And  to  my  surprise  though  not  to  my  chagrin,  she  was  old.  Possibly  she  was  seventy  or  even  older.  A  Chinese,  dressed  in  thin  black  trousers  and  a  thin  black  coat,  inside  which  she  must've  been  as  cold  as  I  was.  Indeed,  she  must've  been  freezing.  She  was  carrying  plastic  bags  of  groceries  slung  to  her  arms  and  clutched  in  her  hands.  When  I  stopped  and  looked  at  her  she  turned  and  gazed  down  the  steps  at  me  with  an  expression  I  can  only  think  now  was  indifference  mingled  with  just  the  smallest  recognition  of  threat.  She  was  old,  after  all.  I  might  suddenly  have  felt  the  urge  to  harm  her,  and  easily  could've.  But  of  course  that  was  not  my  thought.  She  turned  back  to  the  door  and  seemed  to  hurry  her  key  into  the  lock.  She  looked  my  way  once  more,  as  I  heard  the  bolt  shoot  profoundly  back.  I  said  nothing,  did  not  even  look  at  her  again.  I  didn't  want  her  to  think  my  mind  con-  tained  what  it  did  and  also  what  it  did  not.  And  1  walked  on  then,  feeling  oddly  but  in  no  way  surprisingly  betrayed,  simply  passed  on  down  the  street  toward  my  room  and  my  own  doors,  my  life  enter-  ing,  as  it  was  at  that  moment,  its  first  long  cycle  of  necessity.  "