 b"T4  FICTION  DIAMANTINA  A  boy  who  likes  boys.  A  girl  who  likes  boys.  An  unlikely  romance?  COLLEGE  friend  had  told  me  to  look  up  his  Ro-  man  cousin,  Tina.  On  the  phone  she  had  a  wonderfully  low,  seductive  voice  and  a  schoolgirl's  sudden,  explosive  laugh.  She  told  me  to  come  right  over.  I  pointed  out  that  it  was  three  o'clock  on  a  Tuesday  after-  noon,  which  seemed  to  surprise  her.  She  laughed  and  said,  &quot;But  I  don't  under-  stand  nothing  you  say.&quot;  Her  huge  nineteenth-century  Roman  palazzo  was  near  the  Quirinale,  the  Pres-  ident's  residence,  and  beside  a  Baroque  fountain  so  ugly  that  all  4974616c79  had  mocked  the  man  who  made  it,  until  he  finally  committed  suicide.  A  sour-faced  portiere  opened  a  small,  low  door  and  growled  something  at  me.  In  the  dark,  neglected  courtyard,  a  thick-thighed  Diana  drew  an  arrow  from  a  quiver,  but  her  concrete  bow  had  broken  off  and  the  exposed  metal  armature  had  stained  her  hunting  skirt  with  rust  drips.  The  el-  evator  clanked  noisily.  I  was  immedi-  ately  struck  by  how  this  once  grand,  bourgeois  palazzo,  now  fallen  into  neglect,  was  profoundly  foreign,  more  than  the  Roman  churches,  which  I'd  studied  since  childhood,  or  even  my  own  Trastevere  apartment,  with  its  falsely  luxurious  interior  invented  yester-  day  and  imposed  on  a  humble  old  building.  Tina  opened  a  heavily  barricaded  door,  shook  my  hand  manfully,  and  led  me  down  a  dark  hall  with  a  stone  floor.  We  entered  a  cold,  damp  sitting  room-  an  electric  fire  and  a  tattered  couch  and  a  chair  marooned  in  the  midst  of  an  im-  mense  stone  floor-and  stood  for  a  mo-  ment,  eying  each  other.  She  seemed  to  be  as  much  a  stranger  here  as  I  was  and  just  as  uncertain  as  to  what  to  do.  She  lit  a  cigarette  and  sat  down  and  mur-  mured  &quot;Hmmmn&quot;  on  a  falling  note,  in-     BY  EDMUND  WHITE  dicating  the  armchair  with  her  chin.  Stretched  canvases  were  leaning  against  the  walls,  their  backs  turned  modestly  to  the  viewer.  For  an  instant  I  imagined  Tina  as  an  artist  and  intel-  lectual,  but  she  turned  out  to  be  too  un-  predictable  to  be  any  single  thing  for  long.  &quot;Yes,  Emanuele  told  me  to  look  you  up,&quot;  I  said,  naming  her  American  cousin.  &quot;He  seems  to  be  doing  very  well.  Ever  the  dandy,  of  course,  order-  ing  his  hats  from  Lock's  in  [REDACTED]  with  his  initials  stamped  in  gold  on  the  sweatband.&quot;  &quot;Cosa?&quot;  she  asked,  looking  at  me  with  huge  liquid  eyes,  floating  between  lids  as  black  as  mussel  shells.  A  cheap  Italian  cigarette,  a  brand  called  MS,  burned  be-  tween  her  yellowed  fingers.  She  shook  her  head  silently  as  though  to  wake  her-  self  out  of  a  bad  dream.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Mf  dispiace.&quot;  Her  eyes  remained  fixed  on  mine.  In  fact,  she  lowered  her  head  so  that  she  then  had  to  look  up  at  me.  She  was  in  a  simple  gray  skirt  and  white  blouse.  Her  hair  glistened  wet  on  the  sides  where  she'd  justslicked  it  back,  which  gave  her  a  slightly  raffish  glamour.  She  scrutinized  me  so  closely  that  I  felt  un-  comfortable;  so  much  attention  was  bound  to  expose  my  superficiality  or  my  failings.  The  room  was  cold  and  dark,  and  the  windows  were  shrouded  in  vel-  vet  curtains  that  were  the  color  of  wine  dregs  and  had  gone  bald  both  at  the  hem  and  at  the  height  where  they  must  have  been  tugged  open  or  shut,  day  after  weary  day.  Now  they  were  shut.  A  floor  lamp  with  a  chro-  mium  hood-an  old-fashioned  dentist's  lamp-was  lit  and  trained  expectantly  on  the  velvet.  I  started  a  sentence  with  the  respect-  ful  form  of  &quot;you&quot;  (&quot;Le?&quot;)  and  she  imme-  diately  corrected  me.  An  hour  went  by,  and  the  smoke  of  our  cigarettes  floated  across  the  light,  I  tried  to  communicate,  putting  my  two  hundred  Italian  words  together  in  vari-  ous  unlikely  combinations,  buteach  at-  tempt  fell  flat,  and  I  became  frustrated  and  ashamed.  Her  large,  unhealthy  eyes  dissected  me;  I  could  feel  them  carving  me  so  expertly  that  I  could  almost  hear  the  slow,  anticipatory  scraping  of  knife  on  poised  fork.  As  I  became  more  and  more  hearty  and  despairing  in  the  pro-  duction  of  conversation-manual  banali-  ties,  each  so  full  of  faults  that  I  could  distinctly  see  the  big  C-minus  scrawled  in  red  across  my  exercise  sheet,  Tina  dropped  into  ever  gloomier  silence.  She  had  a  two-litre  bottle  of  red  wine  on  the  stone  floor  beside  her  chair,  the  cheap  kind  of  wine  bought  at  the  corner  for  pennies  in  an  unlabelled  bottle  sealed  with  a  metal  cap,  the  sort  of  bottle  that  suggested  it  marked  a  daily  necessity,  not  an  occasional  festivity.  Her  teeth  were  blue  from  it.  Just  when  I  thought  I'd  exhausted  her  patience,  she  said  I  should  stayto  eat  something.  I  followed  her  and  stood  in  the  doorway  of  her  diraly  lit,  ancient  kitchen,  with  its  marble  sink  and  a  tiny  modern  stove  that,  to  judge  from  the  rust  scrapes  and  stains  on  the  wall  and  floor,  must  have  been  installed  in  the  place  once  occupied  by  an  immense  iron  oven.  Tina  was  suddenly  efficient,  no  longer  a  sibyl  hanging  over  the  smoke  of  her  cigarette  and  staring  into  the  void  but  a  much  younger  woman,  slim-hipped  in  her  gray  skirt,  her  pale,  slender  arms  weaving  the  air  as  she  spin-dried  salad  leaves,  mixed  a  vinai-  grette,  filled  a  cauldron  with  water  to  cook  spaghetti.  SPENT  a  lot  oftime  with  Tina  (which  was,  I  would  learn,  short  for  Diamantina,  a  family  name),  who  took  what  I  judged  to  be  abig  sister's  inter-  est  in  me.  She'd  pick  me  up  in  her  bat-  tered  Cinquecento  and  speed  me  con-  5  re  0  Q  &amp;  &amp;  3  r  " b"fidently  through  the  narrow,  clangorous  streets,  to  where  we'd  have  dinner,  in  a  dark  restaurant  looking  out  at  a  rugged  Renaissance  palace  across  an  empty,  wet  square.  We'd  eat  our  plate  of  spaghetti  and  nuggetof  veal  in  almost  total  si-  lence.  In  thecenter  of  the  square,  a  wide,  ancient  Roman  basin  overflowed  in  the  rain,  its  surface  smooth  as  pol-  ished  onyx.  Tina  took  me  by  to  meet  her  father,  a  tiny,  wizened  scholar  who  lived  in  an-  other  apartment  in  the  same  family  pa-  lazzo.  I  was  used  to  the  American  no-  tion  that  parents  are  dull,  if  responsible,  creatures  and  their  children  wild  and  fascinating,  but  Tina's  father  was  as  hopeless  and  eccentric  ashis  daughter.  He  seemed  to  live  on  cheap  wine,  regu-  larly  forgetting  to  eat,  turned  night  into  day,  and  wore  the  same  suit  every  day,  although  he  was  persuaded  by  his  daughter  every  third  day  to  change  his  shirt.  He  was  usually  morose-much  of  his  thought  was  devoted  to  a  hundred-  page  essay  on  time  that  he'd  been  writ-  ing  for  twenty  years-but  occasionally  he'd  throw  a  rust-colored  scarf  around  his  neck  and  sally  forthin  his  old  jeep.  His  girlfriend,  an  extremely  elegant  lady  his  age,  invited  Tina  and  me  to  herpa-  lazzo  for  a  party,  where  champagne  and  canap\xc3\xa9s  were  stiffly  handed  around  by  servants  in  white  gloves,  although  at  midnight  the  hostess  herself  put  on  an  apron  and  made  usa  spaghettata.  This  woman-so  dazzling  in  her  diamonds  and  so  punctilious  in  her  politeness  took  Tina's  father's  bohemianism  in  her  stride.  She  sat  placidly  beside  him  in  the  jeep,  a  scarf  tied  around  her  im-  peccable  hairdo,  her  tiny  black  shoes  poised  over  the  gaping  hole  in  the  floorboard.  [REDACTED]  night  I  was  alone  with  Tina,  the  two  of  us  sitting  together  ma-  rooned  under  alone  lamp,  our  armchairs  and  the  scrap  of  rug  underneath  like  el-  ements  in  a  cheap  set  hastily  assembled  on  an  immense  soundstage.  We  were  enduring  yet  another  stretch  of  exhaust  ing  silence,  and  I  was  about  to  confess  that  I  felt  we  should  meet  ina  month's  time,  when  I  knew  more  Italian.  But  Tina  spoke  first  and  said,  &quot;I  love  you.&quot;  I  was  amazed  by  this  declaration.  I  hadn't  seen  it  coming.  And  while  it  sud-  denly  made  me  feel  important  and  desir-  able  rather  than  annoying  and  tongue-  tied,  it  also  scared  me.  &quot;But  you  know,&quot;  I  told  her,  &quot;I  like  men.&quot;  She  stared  at  me  with  her  huge  black  eyes.  She  did  not  wheedle  or  seduce  or  whine  or  even  argue  her  case;  she  had  simply  presented  herself  to  me  and  that  was  enough,  at  once  Salome  and  the  head  on  the  platter.  &quot;Sono  frocio,&quot;  I  said-'&quot;I'm  a  fag&quot;-  using  the  worst  word  I  knew,  the  most  shocking.  That  stung  her  into  a  response.  &quot;Don't  say  that.  You  can  say  whatever  you  want-omosessuale,  invertito-but  not  that  horrendous  word.  You  use  it  only  because  you  don't  know  [REDACTED];  I  tried  to  explain  to  her  the  strat-  egy  of  adopting  the  enemy's  worst  in-  sult,  something  the  new  gay  commune  in  [REDACTED]  had  attempted  in  naming  its  newspaper  Fag  Rag,but  she  merely  shook  her  head  as  though  awakening  from  a  bad  dream  and  returned  to  the  assault:  &quot;We  are  peoples,&quot;  she  kept  re-  peating  in  English,  which  I  assumed  meant  we're  individuals  before  we're  gendered  (a  truism  I  wasn't  sure  I  be-  lieved)  and  that  as  individuals  we're  as  likely  to  fall  in  love  with  another  soul  as  another  body,  with  a  simpatica  woman  as  a  dull  man.  And  then  silence.  I  began  to  wonder  how  soon  I  could  plausibly  take  my  leave.  We  were  both  drunk,  but  she  was  drunker  than  I  was.  She  seemed  to  let  the  silence  collect,  as  though  in  a  big  cis-  tern  that  was  ready  to  overflow.  She  was  not  going  to  permit  me  to  wriggle  grace-  fully  out  of  the  situation.  Does  Medea  let  Jason  off  the  hook?  Does  Phaedra  give  Hippolytus  an  easyout?  I  stood  and  she  walked  into  my  arms.  We  embraced,  and  I  found  my  hands  travelling  over  her  lean  body,  pressing  her  flanks  through  her  skirt.  I  could  feel  myself  kindling  under  her  touch,  but  I  instantly  worried  that  I'd  disap-  point  her,  as  a  lover  and  as  a  husband-  in  my  mind,  the  two  were  always  linked.  Every  time  I  kissed  a  woman,  I  feared  I'd  be  both  impotent  and  insolvent,  too  flaccid  to  penetrate  and  too  poor  to  support  her.  When  I  looked  at  mar-  ried  men,  I  often  sympathized  with  their  obligation  to  mount  their  wives,  tire-  lessly,  night  after  night-and  to  have  to  pay  for  the  pleasure.  In  gay  life,  hustlers  were  paid  to  penetrate  men;  we  assumed  that  passivity  was  always  the  more  de-  sirable  role  and  that  the  drudgery  of  ac-  T5  tivity  naturally  had  to  be  recompensed.  But  now  I  was  drunk,  and  the  drink  must  have  calmed  my  fears.  Tinawas  neither  decorous  nor  cold,  and  we  grap-  pled  as  violently  as  any  two  men  might  have  done,  and  somehow  I  found  my-  self  ina  dark  hallway  leading  to  the  room  where  her  bedglowed  like  a  moonlit  pond  seen  at  the  end  of  an  al-  leyway  of  firs.  Then  she  bit  my  nose,  hard.  She's  mad,  I  thought,  she's  dan-  gerous.  I'm  getting  out  of  here.  &quot;O.K.,  that's  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  leaving.&quot;  I  said  it  in  English,  quickly.  I  had  reached  the  hallway,  groping  for  the  light  switch  while  fumbling  to  zip  up  my  trousers,  when  I  was  over-  come  with  the  chilling  certainty  that  Tina  really  was  crazy  and  that  she  might  try  to  kill  me.  I  didn't  wait  for  the  elevator  but  ran  down  the  five  flights  and  through  the  rainy  courtyard,  my  feet  strikinga  muffled  sound  off  the  old,  mossy  pave-  ment.  Behind  me,  I  heard  the  elevator  motor  groaning  into  action  and  I  knew  that  Tina  would  soonbe  pursuing  me.  I  ducked  through  the  small  door  set  into  the  portone  and  found  myself  on  a  deserted  street,  beside  the  ugly  fountain  that  had  provoked  its  sculptor's  suicide.  I  was  seized  by  the  intense  fear  that  Tina  was  going  to  run  me  over  with  her  car.  I  started  to  streak  down  the  hill  past  the  Barberini  Palace;  then  I  spotted  a  side  street  and  I  ducked  down  it,  but  afterI'd  run  another  block  I  saw  to  my  horror  that  it  was  a  dead  end.  I  crept  back  up  to  the  main  thoroughfare,  hugging  the  shadowy  wall,  and  arrived  at  the  corner  justin  time  to  seea  grim-faced  Tina  hurtling  by  behind  the  wheel  of  her  tiny,  battered  car.  A  bit  morecomposed  now,  I  went  down  to  the  taxi  rank  in  the  Piazza  Bar-  berini.  I  told  the  driver  to  let  me  off  beside  the  square  of  Santa  Maria  in  Trastevere;  I  would  walk  the  rest  of  the  way  home.  But  as  we  neared  the  square  the  driver  asked  me  if  I  knew  this  woman  who  had  been  following  us.  I  said  to  him,  &quot;Here's  a  bit  of  extra  money.  Could  you  just  wait  a  moment  while  I  talk  to  her?&quot;  He  smiled  knowingly.  I  was,  he  thought,  a  roguish  husband  coming  to  see  his  Trastevere  mistress,  and  Tina  was  my  jealous  wife;  and  I  realized  that,  whereas  every  aspect  ofgay  life  is  always  regarded  as  aberrant,  there's  " b" not  a  moment  of  straight  life,  no  mat-  ter  how  bizarre  or  melodramatic,  that  isn't  cozily  familiar,  that  can't  be  associ-  ated  with  a  song  lyric  or  a  movie  or  a  poem.  I'd  have  felt  ashamed  if  my  pursuer  had  been  a  man;  now  there  was  a  hint  of  complicity  between  the  driver  and  me.  I  went  to  Tina's  car,  ducked  down  and  spoke  to  her  through  the  openwin-  dow.  Shewas  very  pale.  Like  a  hypno-  tist,  I  said,  &quot;You're  tired  and  you're  go-  ing  to  go  home  now  and  we'll  speak  in  the  morning.&quot;  She  nodded  slowly.  I  crossed  the  square,  dim  and  de-  serted  in  the  midnight  rain.  The  square  was  closed  to  cars,  but  I  kept  expecting  to  hear  Tina's  Cinquecento  gunning  its  motor  as  she  came  crashing  down  on  me.  By  walking  confidently  away  from  her  I  felt  like  a  torero  who  turns  his  back  on  a  bull,  stunned  but  angry.  FTER  six  months  in  4974616c79,  I  flew  back  to  New  York.  It  was  1970,  and  a  friend  met  me  at  the  airport,  popped  some  speed  laced  with  a  hallu-  cinogen  into  my  mouth,and  led  me  on  a  tour  of  the  new  gay  discos  that  had  sprung  up  like  magic  mushrooms  since  L  my  departure.  I  was  shocked  by  how  much  the  city  had  changed.  Where  be-  fore  there  had  been  a  few  gay  boys  hanging  out  on  a  stoop  along  Christo-  pher  Street,  now  there  were  armies  of  guys  marching  in  every  direction  off  Sheridan  Square.  There  were  thousands  of  them,  all  similarly  slender  and  mus-  tachioed,  many  of  them  with  the  same  loud  voices  and  crude  way  of  talking  (&quot;Hey,  Howie,  wanna  cwoffee?&quot;)  as  the  guys  who  used  to  beat  us  up.  I  kept  up  a  desultory  correspondence  with  Tina.  I  had  worked  out  how  to  say  &quot;I  miss  you&quot;  -&quot;Sento  la  tua  mancanza&quot;  -  and  after  receiving  my  letter  with  that  expression  in  it  she  hopped  the  next  plane  to  New  York.  She  was  momen-  tarily  taken  aback  by  the  squalor  of  my  apartment,  but  was  pleased  to  see  that  we'dbe  sleeping  side  by  side  in  a  small  bed  every  night:  I  had  separated  the  two  mattresses  of  my  single  bed  and  thrown  them  on  the  floor.  I  had  found  so  little  echo  in  New  York  of  the  time  that  I'd  spent  in  4974616c79  that  I  was  happy  to  have  Tina  here-her  wonderful,  heady  laugh,  her  face  devoid  of  makeup  except  for  the  mascara  tracing  her  huge  eyes  in  black,  her  skinny  flanks,  the      THE  43616e616461W  YORKER,  JU43616e616461  10,  1996  clean  but  unpainted  nails,  the  eter-  nal  MS  cigarettes.  She  wanted  to  see  [REDACTED].  I  found  a  friend  with  a  car,  and  the  three  of  us  drove  her  up  and  down  the  streets  of  [REDACTED],  Tina  unable  to  conceal  her  disappointment  by  what  she  considered  to  be  the  rela-  tive  prosperity,  though  we  told  her  the  apartments  were  dangerous,  overcrowded,  and  rat-infested.  She  didn't  believe  us  when  we  said  the  principal  victims  of  black  crime  were  other  blacks.  In  Little  4974616c79  she  was  shocked  to  discover  an  ash-  tray  bearing  the  portrait  of  Benito  Mussolini.  &quot;And  it  looks  like  the  past!  This  is  4974616c79  after  the  war.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  yes,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;America  is  4974616c79's  attic,  where  everything  outmoded-  including  outmoded  ideas-is  stored  in  mothballs.&quot;  &quot;Cosa?&quot;  she  asked,  puzzled.  I  never  understood  why  she  went  blank  aroundme.  I'd  never  had  anyone  look  at  me  so  searchingly.  Was  it  because  she  was  studying  me  sorrowfully  or  because  she  was  looking  at  me  with  desire  and  not  really  listening  to  me?  Was  it  be-  cause  I  spoke  in  English  too  rapidly  or  was  it  my  faulty  Italian?  One  night  she  wept  because  I  had  never  cooked  her  any  spaghetti  and  she  couldn't  get  through  another  day  with-  out  &quot;them.&quot;  At  my  little  stove,  posed  on  top  of  the  waist-high  fridge,  I  made  a  rich,  delicious  Bolognese  sauce,  as  roaches  scuttled  out  to  escape  the  heat.  But  that  night  she  threw  herself  over  me  again  and  I  exploded.  I  sat  up,  switched  on  the  light,  lit  a  cigarette,  and  held  it  in  my  trembling  hand.  &quot;Tina,  this  can't  go  on.  I'm  a  homosexual.  I  don't  want  to  sleep  with  you.  We're  friends.&quot;  &quot;Ma  tu  hat  detto  di  sentire  la  mia  mancanza.&quot;  &quot;So  what?  In  English  that  means  nothing  special.  'I  miss  my  mother.  I  missed  my  train.  Last  night  I  missed  my  enema.'  It  means  absolutely  nothing  at  all.&quot;  She  was  in  her  slip,  sitting  up  on  the  mattress,  her  hair  pushed  forward  on  one  side.  She  looked  miserable.  &quot;In  Ital-  ian  it  means  I  love  you.&quot;  The  next  day  she  took  a  train  for  New  Haven,  where  she  knew  a  tall,  skinny  American  graduate  student  " b"who'd  spent  a  year  in  4974616c79  studying  Italian  social  structure.  T'wo  weeks  later  they  were  married.  AST  spring  I  was  in  4974616c79  again.  Tina's  American  cousin  (the  one  who'd  originally  introduced  us)  had  told  me  that  her  father  had  just  died.  He  gave  me  her  phone  number  and  asked  me  to  call  her.  She  wanted  to  see  me  instantly.  Tina,  still  slender,  still  lived  in  the  same  palazzo,  except  now  I  was  jowly  and  she  seemed  to  be  missing  a  few  teeth.  I  told  her  everything  I  could  remember  about  her  father,  and  that  pleased  her,  and  she  asked  me  to  repeat  my  recollections  to  his  elegant  old  girlfriend,  who'd  become  his  wife.  Tina  said  her  father  had  abandoned  his  little  book  about  time  ten  years  ago.  She  told  me  that  she'd  married  that  American  just  to  spite  me,  but  the  mar-  riage  had  lasted  onlya  year  and  a  half.  The  big  love  of  her  life  was  Hector,  and  the  two  of  them  had  lived  together  fifteen  years.  &quot;He  died  last  year,  and  I  suffered  ter-  rible  engoscia,&quot;  Tina  said,  sitting  forward  and  nursing  her  cup  of  espresso  between  her  hands,  even  though  the  day  was  un-  usually  warm  for  Palm  Sunday,  &quot;but  now  I'm  just  angry.&quot;  \xc2\xab&amp;  Angry?\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;Yes!&quot;  She  laughed  wildly.  &quot;He  told  me  he  was  an  Argentine  terrorist  living  in  hiding,  and  for  fifteen  years  we  never  went  out.  For  fifteen  years,  we  did  noth-  ing  but  drink.  There  are  whole  years  of  blackout,  we  were  always  hiding  from  the  enemy.&quot;  She  sliced  the  air  with  a  side-  ways  karate  chop,  an  Italian  gesture  that,  combined  with  her  smile  and  frown,  meant  that  she  was  playfully  threatening  to  punish  a  child  I  suppose.  &quot;But  why  are  you  angry?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Because  when  he  died  I  met  his  en-  tire  family.  They  came  to  the  funeral.  They  were  all  Romans.  He  wasn't  Ar-  gentine,  he  was  a  Roman.  For  fifteen  years  we'd  been  hiding  and  drinking  and  he'd  been  makingup  stories.  Even  his  accent  was  made  up.&quot;  I  looked  at  her,  amazed,  then  burst  out  laughing,  and  she  laughed,  too.  I  told  her  that  my  young  French  lover,  who'd  died  of  AIDS,  had  pretended  to  be  a  member  of  the  &quot;minor  nobility.&quot;  It  was  only  after  his  death  that  I  discovered  that  his  mother  was  a  hairdresser  in  Nancy.  &quot;Cazzo,  these  men!&quot;  she  said.  She  laughed  again,  her  huge  eyes  searching  mine  for  an  explanation. "