 b"64  FICTION  TAKE  MY  HAND  RS.  HILL  was  almost  blind-  she  had  some-  thing-retinitis.  There  was  a  hole  in  the  center  of  her  vision,  as  if  someone  had  ripped  the  mid-  &amp;  dle  out  of  every  page.  If  she  turned  her  head  way  to  the  right  or  left,  she  could  just  about  see  my  face.  When  I  walked  toward  her  as  she  sat  in  the  big  red  vinyl  recliner,  she  would  turn  her  face  far  to  the  right;  the  closer  I  got,  the  more  she  seemed  to  yearn  toward  the  kitchen.  When  I  was  almost  upon  her,  she  would  smile  away  from  me.  On  Saturdays  I  tidied  up  Mrs.  Hill's  house  and  made  her  lunch  and  dinner.  She  was  my  good  deed,  courtesy  of  the  Reverend  Samuel  C.  Shales,  pastor  at  the  Belvedere  Road  A.M.E.  Zion  Church,  Where  Everybody  Is  Somebody  and  Jesus  Is  Lord  Over  All.  At  eleven  o'clock  on  September  16th,  through  the  window  of  my  ninth-grade  math  class,  I  had  heard  gospel  music  for  the  first  time.  Those  sweet,  meaty  sounds  led  me  to  a  white  wood  church  on  a  street  corner  my  school  bus  didn't  pass.  I  walked  past  Rev-  erend  Shales's  office  each  time  I  came  in  to  listen,  and  each  time  he  looked  right  at  me  and  kept  talking  on  the  phone.  I  stayed  close  by  the  church  bulletin  board,  my  eyes  down,  my  heart  singing  like  Mahalia  Jackson.  Reverend  Shales  was  shorter  than  I'd  thought,  and  his  glasses  shimmered  in  the  dusty  light.  &quot;Miss?  You're  visiting  our  church  again?&quot;  I  said  yes.  He  asked  my  name,  my  parents'  names,  my  address,  and  my  school,  and  however  embarrassed  I  was  to  be  caught  lurking  in  this  church  hall  he  was  not  sorry  to  have  me  there.  His  eyes  shone  like  black  pearls.  I  seemed  like  a  girl  who  could  offer  a  little  companion  ship,  he  said.  I  could  run  to  the  corner  store  and  bring  back  the  right  change,  couldn't  I?  I  wasn't  above  a  little  light   cleaning,  was  I?  He  invited  me  to  come  and  listen  to  the  choir  whenever  I  liked,  and  also  to  take  this  opportunity,  this  special  opportunity,  to  serve,  to  offer  Christian  charity  to  the  very  sweet,  very  lovely  elderly  lady  just  down  the  road.  He  led  me  out  the  church  door  and  pointed  far  down  Belvedere  Road  to  a  small  no-  color  house  with  a  patchy  lawn  and  a  list-  ing  porch.  &quot;Ill  phone  Miz  Hill  to  say  you're  on  your  way.  You  are  on  your  way  now,  Elizabeth.&quot;  And  he  put  his  big  hand  on  the  small  of  my  back  and  pushed.  He  said  Go,  and  I  went.  CRIN  KLY,  lifeless  gray  curls  floated  up  and  across  Mrs.  Hill's  gray-brown  scalp,  winging  out  over  her  ears.  What  must  once  have  been  round,  brown  eyes  had  become  opaque  beige  slits,  like  two  additional  spots  of  smooth  skin  in  her  dark  puckered  face.  She  had  seven  house-  dresses,  and  her  doctor  daughter  came  home  twice  a  year  from  the  great,  safe  distance  of  [REDACTED]  and  replaced  them  all.  Mrs.  Hill  did  not  rotate  them  as  Dr.  Hill  intended;  she  wore  the  pink  one  all  week,  and  when  it  was  stiff  with  sweat  and  moisturizer  and  medicated  cream  for  her  eczema  she  threw  it  in  the  hamper  for  me  to  wash.  On  Saturdays  she  wore  the  purple  housedress,  and  I  didn't  blame  her  a  bit.  It  was  the  least  practical  of  them;  instead  of  a  cotton-poly  ging-  ham  it  was  soft  velour,  and  the  pull  on  the  end  of  the  zipper  was  a  purple-and-  yellow  sunflower,  as  though  van  Gogh  had  got  loose  in  the  Sears  catalogue.  In  her  purple  sunflower  robe,  Mrs.  Hill  told  my  fortune.  &quot;Long  life  here,&quot;  she  said,  one  thick,  twisted  finger  digging  into  the  middle  of  my  palm.  &quot;Love  affairs  here.  Did  you  bring  Mrs.  Hill  some  pork  rinds?&quot;  Dr.  Hill  had  posted  a  note  saying  that  Mrs.  Hill  had  all  sorts  of  things  wrong  with  her  heart  and  salt  and  fat  were  out  of  the  question.  Mrs.  Hill  and  I  had  a  deal:  one  palm  reading  for  a  bag  of  Salty  Jim's  pork  rinds.  &quot;Open  up  that  bag  and  set  it  right  here.  Let's  have  that  hand.&quot;  I  popped  open  two  cans  of  grape  soda.  Mrs.  Hill  bent  over  my  palm,  and  I  could  smell  the  greasy  fruit  scent  of  her  hair  pomade  and  the  piercing  eucalyptus  of  Vicks  VapoRub,  which  she  used  pro-  phylactically.  &quot;The  love  affairs  startin'  early.&quot;  She  jabbed  my  palm  and  then  held  my  hand  up  to  me,  showing  me  the  point  at  which  the  love  line  joined  the  life  line.  &quot;Really?&quot;  I  said.  I  didn't  think  I  was  having  a  love  affair.  Everyone  in  school  loved  Mr.  Stone,  and  I  knew  he  liked  me,  but  it  wasn't  sexy,  and  you  couldn't  have  an  affair  without  sex.  When  I  was  in  fifth  grade  I  had  had  a  little  sex  with  Seth  Stern,  but  it  wasn't  what  I  thought  a  love  affair  should  be.  We  were  playing  James  Bond  and  he  pulled  down  my  underpants  and  put  his  hand  between  my  legs.  He  stuck  one  long  finger  in-  side  me  and  rocked  me  roughly  on  his  hand  until  we  heard  our  parents  gath-  ering  coats  in  the  front  hall.  He  pushed  me  back  onto  the  bedand  yanked  up  my  panties  while  running  his  thumb  along  the  inside  of  my  thigh.  My  parents  called  for  me,  and  we  went  downstairs,  all  my  attention  on  my  bruised,  wet  cen-  ter  and  on  Seth,  who  insisted  on  shak-  ing  my  father's  hand  as  we  said  goodbye.  The  tension  and  excitement  and  shame  I  felt  were  terrible  and  vivid.  This  was  life.  Out  of  remorse,  or  indifference,  he  wouldn't  answer  my  phone  calls,  and  my  parents  had  just  about  dropped  the  Sterns  anyway,  so  I  kept  my  virginity  quite  a  while  longer  and  I  dreamed  of  his  hands.  Mrs.  Hill  leaned  back  in  her  recliner  and  twisted  her  face  away  to  watch  me.  &quot;In  my  closet  there's  a  hathox,  an  old  red  hatbox.  Bring  it  to  me,  sugar.&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  used  endearments  only  when  she  was  asking  me  a  favor  or  was  criticizing  me.  The  closet  would  have  been  my  mother's  worst  nightmare:  blouses  lying  on  the  floor  in  their  wrinkled,  dusty  pud-  dles,  single  shoes  turned  heel  up  sticking  into  piles  of  sweaters  and  pants.  On  the  'top  shelf  were  three  hatboxes-one  faded  red,  one  with  green  and  white  stripes,  xz  Fa  O  0  PA  &amp;  ic  " b"and  a  yellowed  one  with  grimy  ivory  tas-  sels  hanging  from  the  sides.  Mrs.  Hill  was  much  shorter  than  I  was  and  could  barely  hobble  from  room  to  room;  the  hatboxes  and  the  shelf  they  sat  on  were  covered  with  dust.  Mrs.  Hill  rested  herred  hatbox  in  her  purple  velour  lap,  her  bony  knees  hunched  up  to  keep  it  from  slidingto  the  floor.  &quot;Some  pretty  things  in  here.  If  I  kept  them  out,  a  burglar  might  get  them.  No  burglar's  going  hunting  through  an  old  lady's  underthings,  through  a  messy  old  closet.&quot;  I  was  always  looking  to  justify  the  mess  in  my  room,  too.  Mrs.  Hill  lifted  the  lid  and  handed  it  to  me,  the  thick  dust  rippling  slightly.  &quot;What  about  these,  miss?  You  don't  see  these  anymore.&quot;  She  unwrapped  eight  long  silver  spoons  with  filigreed  hearts  at  their  tips.  She  handed  them  to  me  one  by  oneand  I  ran  my  fingers  over  the  thin  silver  lacework  around  the  hearts'  edges.  She  waved  one  stalk  in  the  air.  &quot;Spoons  for  iced  tea.  Plus  the  stems  are  hollow,  so  you  can  sip,  too.  Wedding  present.&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  closed  her  eyes.  &quot;Wedding  present  from  Alva  and  Edna  Thomas-he  worked  with  Mr.  Hill.  Iced  tea  and  strawberry  shortcake  in  the  sum-  mer.  And  brandy  cup  and  lemon  cake  with  burnt-sugar  frosting  at  Christmas.&quot;  I  had  never  seen  anything  so  fancy  and  frivolous  in  all  my  life.  My  parents'  house  was  all  handsome,  angular  teak  and  tautly  rounded  leather,  and  each  dec-  orative  piece  had  the  added  weight  of  culture  or  art  or  good  taste.  These  spoons  were  just  pretty  and  gay,  and  as  I  held  them  I  could  feel  that  if  I  pressed  down  any  harder  at  all,  the  hollow  stems  would  give  way.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  give  them  to  your  daughter?&quot;  I  asked,  surethat  the  Dr.  Viv-  ian  Hill  in  the  pastel-tinted  eight-by-ten  on  the  mantelpiece,  with  one  manicured  handon  the  hood  of  a  big  white  Mer-  cedes,  black  eyes  flatly  daring  us  to  won-  der  how  she  got  from  here  to  there,  would  not  want  the  spoons,  or  anything  else  from  this  small  house  with  the  rut-  ted  floors  and  soiled  lampshades.  Vivian  Hill's  old  bedroom  was  now  the  stor-  age  room-wire  hangers,  dresses  from  twenty  years  ago,  shoes  slit  for  corns  and  bunions  and  still  not  right,  cat  food  for  the  cat  that  died  six  months  before  I  came,  Christmas-cookie  tins  filled  with  rubber  bands  and  Green  Stamps-and  the  only  bit  of  Dr.  Hill  left  was  the  graduation  tassel  used  to  pull  down  the  window  shade.  Dr.  Hill  stayed  at  the  Motor  Inn  when  she  visited.  Mrs.  Hill  made  a  feeble  grab  for  the  spoons,  snatching  at  the  air  to  my  left.  &quot;Give  them  to  Vivian?  Why  should  I  give  them  to  anyone?  I'm  not  dead.  Gimme  those  spoons,  girl.&quot;  I  put  all  but  one  of  the  spoons  back  into  her  hands;  they  stuck  out  like  silver  pins  in  an  old  brown  cushion.  She  sorted  them  and  wrapped  them  in  the  tissue  pa-  per.  Before  she  could  count  them  up  and  accuse  me,  I  handed  her  the  last  one.  &quot;Don't  forget  this-it  fell  off  your  lap,&quot;  I  lied.  She  gestured  for  the  lid.  &quot;Next  time,  we  can  look  at  somemore  treasures,&quot;  she  said.  I  put  the  red  hatbox  back  and  quickly  lifted  down  the  striped  one.  Inside  were  twelve  silver  spoons  with  short,  thickly  twisted  stems,  the  ends  crowned  with  tiny  enamelled  portraits  of  long-haired,  Biblical-looking  men.  Each  little  white  face  was  touched  with  two  pink  dots  for  cheeks  and  a  pair  of  blue  or  brown  dots  for  eyes.  Their  hair  was  several  different  shades  of  brown.  &quot;Don't  be  goin'  in  my  things,  now,&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  said.  &quot;I'm  not.  I  was  just  trying  to  get  this  put  back  where  it  belongs.  I  was  tidying  up  your  closet,  as  a  matter  of  fact.&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh.  Snooping  and  spying  is  more  like  it.&quot;  I  knew  she  didn't  mind;  it  wasn't  like  there  were  millions  of  people  interested  in  Mrs.  Hill's  life,  never  mind  the  con-  tents  of  her  closet.  After  a  few  Saturdays,  Mrs.  Hill  and  I  had  gone  through  all  three  hatbhoxes.  Besides  the  apostle  spoons  and  the  iced-  tea  stirrers,  there  were  six  half-size  tea-  cups  and  matching  saucers,  each  with  a  different  flower  garlanding  the  sides  of  the  cup  and  the  face  of  the  saucer,  each  with  one  coy  bud  resting  at  the  bottom  of  the  cup.  I  loved  them  all.  RS.  HILL  had  two  cookbooks:  &quot;Joy  of  Cooking&quot;  and  &quot;The  Paschal  Lamb,&quot;  which  was  put  out  by  the  Greater  Galilee  A.M.E.  Zion  Church  of  [REDACTED]  and  was  almost  as  long  as  the  gravy-stained  Rombauer  bible.  I  read  them  both,  and  once  Mrs.  Hill  showed  me  how  to  light  her  chipped  gas  stove  I  learned  to  cook.  I  baked  five  little  casse-  roles  every  Saturday,  so  Mrs.  Hill  could  just  heat  them  up  while  I  was  gone,  and  65  even  eat  them  cold  without  getting  some  kind  of  uncooked-meat  disease.  In  January,  Mrs.  Hill  was  always  cold.  She  was  tired  of  the  hatboxes,  tired  of  reading  my  palm,  and  tired  of  casserole.  She  would  fall  asleep  when  I  got  there  and  wake  up  as  thesky  was  getting  dark.  &quot;Don't  you  leave  while  I'm  sleeping.  Elizabeth,  you  hear  me?  Don't  you  leave  if  I'm  not  awake.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  I  mean,  even  if  I  did,  you'd  be  fine.I  mean,  nothing  would  happen.&quot;  &quot;Don't  tell  me  what's  gonna  happen  in  my  own  house.  You  come  and  wake  me  up  before  you  leave.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  ma'am.&quot;  The  next  Saturday,  she  fell  asleep  in  her  chairright  after  lunch.  I  went  into  her  bedroom  and  stood  in  the  mouth  of  the  closet,  staring  up  at  the  row  of  hatboxes.  I  took  down  the  apostles  and  chose  one  whose  eyes  seemed  to  tilt  up  at  me  be-  neath  lashes  as  dark  and  spiky  as  Seth  Stern's.  I  put  him  into  my  backpack  and  changed  Mrs.  Hill's  bed,  trying  to  hold  my  breath  until  I  got  the  clean  sheets  on  and  the  old  ones  stuffed  into  the  washer.  The  following  Saturday,  I  took  one  with  blue  eyes,  and  the  Saturday  after  that  another  brown-eyed  one.  I  wanted  to  take  the  lady's-slipper  teacup  next.  Mrs.  Hill  saidto  me,  &quot;Could  you  come  this  Tuesday?  My  Vivian's  coming  by,  for  just  a  little  while.  I  think  we  could  do  a  little  cleaning  up  before.&quot;  &quot;I  can't.  I've  got  school  stuff.  The  newspaper.  I  have  to  go  to  the  meeting.&quot;  Mr.  Stone  was  our  adviser.  &quot;I  think  you  might  have  to  skip  that  meeting,  sugar.  I  don't  like  to  put  you  out,  you  know  that,  but  I  really  do  need  your  help  on  Tuesday.  Can't  have  my  Dr.  Fancy  Pants  shakin'  her  head,  talkin'  about  putting  Mrs.  Hill  in  some  pomme.  I  need  you  Tuesday.&quot;  If  I  came  Tuesday,  I  would  be  there  all  the  time.  I  could  feel  her  need  for  me  reaching  out  like  terrible  black  roots,  wrapping  themselves  right  around  me,  burying  me  in  wet  brown  earth.  &quot;I'm  reallysorry.  I  just  can't.  I'm  prac-  tically  the  person  running  the  meeting.  Maybe  there's  someone  from  church.&quot;  Her  church  seemed  to  me  to  be  over-  flowing  with  neatly  dressed,  gloved  and  hatted  ladies  eager  to  help.  &quot;Have  someone  from  church  come  in  here?  Don't  talk  crazy.  You're  the  one  I  need.  And  I  need  you  on  Tuesday.  It's  not  too  much  to  ask,if  you  think  on  it.&quot;  I  didn't  say  anything,  hoping  that  " b"66  she'd  get  embarrassed  aboutbeing  so  insistent.  &quot;Come  here,  sugar.  It's  not  too  much  to  ask  since  you've  got  three  of  my  spoons.  Three  silver  spoons  and  you  won't  come  on  Tuesday  and  help  out  your  friend  Mrs.  Hill?  I  call  that  selfish.  And  stupid.  I  call  that  stupid.  Steal  from  me  and  then  make  me  mad.  Don't  you  think  I'm  go-  ing  to  go  right  to  Reverend  Shales  and  tell  him  thatnice  little  Jewish  girl  he  found  for  me  is  stealing  my  silver?  Don't  you  think  I'm  going  to  have  to  call  your  father  and  tell  him  that  his  daughter's  a  thief,  taking  advantage  of  a  poor  old  lady,  half  blind  and  living  all  on  her  own?&quot;  &quot;Jesus,&quot;  I  said,  keeping  my  voice  low,  so  she  wouldn't  leap  out  of  her  recliner  and  attack  me.  &quot;Don't  yow  call  on  Jesus.&quot;  Her  voice  softened.  &quot;You  can  have  the  spoons.  You  can  have  a  teacup,  too.  I  can't  get  by  with  only  Saturdays,  and  that's  the  truth.&quot;  She  leaned  back  in  her  chair,  pressing  her  cheek  into  the  ratty  old  doilyshe'd  pinned  to  the  headrest.  I  went  over  to  her,  more  ashamed  that  I  had  made  her  beg  than  about  the  steal-  ing.  I  would  make  it  up  to  her;  I  would  walk  in  the  pathways  of  righteousness  ev-  ery  Tuesday,  Thursday,  and  Saturday  for  the  rest  of  her  life.  LL  that  year,  even  while  I  slept,  my  body  kept  changing,  and  when  I  woke  up,  flesh  I  had  known  my  whole  life  had  slid  off  or  moved  down  or  hidden  itself  under  a  blanket  of  thin  dark  hair.  Boys  looked  at  me  carefully,  smashed  into  me  in  the  halls,  but  didn't  speak.  I  didn't  keep  a  little  period  calendar  like  some  girls,  so  I  ruined  about  twenty  pairs  of  panties  and  carried  extras  in  my  schoolbag,  and  six  tampons  and  Maybelline  Peppermint  Ice  lipstick  and  a  CornSilk  compact.  I  looked  in  that  little  mirror  constantly  and  co-  vertly.  I  stole  my  mother's  pink  and  aqua  European  gels,  and  Jolen  bleach  for  the  tops  of  my  toes  so  that  when  I  appeared  on  the  Riviera  Sean  Connery  would  not  be  disgusted  by  the  sight  of  my  darkly  hairy  feet.  I  would  not  say  it  to  anyone  (who  would  I  say  it  to,  even  if  I'd  been  willing?),  but  I  thought  I  had  potential.  Mr.  Stone  said  I  did.  He  read  poetry  to  our  ninth-grade  English  class  and  told  me  I  could  show  him  my  own  poems  during  study  hall.  I  sat  in  his  office,  our  chair  arms  touching,  and  smelled  his  cof-  fee  and  tobacco  and  his  tart  middle-aged-  man  smell.  I  watched  him  roll  up  his  sleeves  over  his  wide  arms.  He  tapped  a  ridged  fin-  gernail  over  each  line,  circling  a  misplaced  word,  tapping  twice  at  a  nice  phrase.  I  wrote  poems  about  loneliness  and  terrible  fires  in  crowded  tenement  build-  ings  and  poets  dying  in  the  Russian  snow.  Mr.  Stone  said,  &quot;I  know  you  know  about  the  loneliness,  honey,&quot;  and  he  crossed  out  every  other  line  and  made  me  put  away  all  the  poems  set  in  places  I'd  never  been.  He  let  me  eat  lunch  in  his  office.  I  brought  him  three  boxes  of  blue  pencils,  and  I  asked  him  where  he  was  from.  &quot;[REDACTED]  of  here,&quot;  he  said.  RS.  HILL  and  I  were  working  our  way  through  &quot;Pride  and  Preju-  dice&quot;  and  the  poetry  of  Mr.  Paul  Dunbar.  I  gave  her  a  couple  of  manicures  with-  out  hurting  her  too  badly  and  hoped  she  wouldn't  ask  for  a  pedicure.  One  after-  noon,  I  found  her  smiling  in  her  sleep  when  I  walked  in,  her  feet,  brown  and  yellow  and  bumpy  as  toads,  soaking  in  warm  water  and  chamomile  leaves.  I  dried  her  feet  and  moisturized  them  and  filed  down  her  toenails  and  painted  them  Carnaby  Crimson  and  did  my  own  fingers.  Mr.  Stone  said,  &quot;Fancy  nails,&quot;  and  he  asked  me  if  I  would  risk  my  manicure  to  do  some  filing  for  him.  I  told  him  I  used  Sally  Hansen  and  it  didn't  chip.  I  drank  Mr.  Stone's  coffee  and  waited  for  someone  to  admire  my  red  cowboy  boots  propped  up  on  a  pile  of  blue  books.  From  behind  his  desk  I  could  watch  the  entire  junior  high  walk  by,  their  faces  passing  between  my  pointy  toes.  When  the  bell  rang  I  shut  the  door  and  read  ev-  eryone's  grades  while  I  filed.  In  that  little  office,  with  the  frosted-  glass  window  facing  me  and  the  view  of  the  parking  lot  behind  me,  with  the  dirty  metal  file  cabinets  and  the  film  of  ciga-  rette  ash  and  dust  and  the  apple  cores  rotting  in  Mr.  Stone's  wastebasket  from  Monday  to  Friday,  4974616c79  whole.  The  dreams  other  girls  tried  to  make  real  with  boys  or  clothes  or  horses  were  nothing  to  me.  The  best  dream,  the  true  red  heart  of  my  life,  was  Mr.  Stone,  Mrs.  Hill  was  the  ribbon,  and  books  were  the  lace  trim.  The  only  real  ugliness  was  my  par-  ents'  fighting.  My  father  moved  out  and  back  and  out  again,  handing  me  twenty  dollars  every  time  he  came  or  went.  I  sat  on  Mr.  Stone's  linoleum  floor,  against  the  filing  cabinet,  and  Mr.  Stone  crouched  down  beside  me.  &quot;Liz,  what's  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  I  hate  my  life.  Sometimes.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Mr.  Stone  said.  &quot;Every  year,  it'll  get  a  little  better.  For  at  least  the  next  ten  years.&quot;  &quot;Maybe,  maybe  not.&quot;  I  looked  down  at  the  toes  of  my  boots.  &quot;Maybe  not,&quot;  Mr.  Stone  agreed  with-  out  smiling.  Looking  straight  into  his  small  blue  eyes,  I  didn't  see  the  crumpled  skin  around  them  and  the  way  his  brow  hung  over  them  and  the  deep  dirty  holes  in  his  cheeks.  When  he  looked  at  me,  I  looked  away.  I  loved  him  for  kneeling  beside  me,  his  long  legs  folded  up  beneath  him  on  the  dirty  floor,  and  even  though  I  now  felt  not  just  better  but  great,  fat  tears  ran  down  my  face.  Three  drops  fell  on  my  notebook.  I  hoped  he'd  give  me  permis-  sion  to  skip  class,  I  hoped  my  nose  wasn't  running,  I  hoped  I  wasn't  ruining  my  mother's  black  silk  T-shirt.  &quot;Can  you  go  to  class?  The  bell's  ringing.&quot;  &quot;I  guess.  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  stay.  I'll  write  you  a  pass  " b" and  you  can  go  later.  Whose  class  are  you  missing?&quot;  &quot;Extended  Algebra.  Mr.  Provatella  doesn't  mind.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  can't  get  much  more  be-  hind  than  you  are,  I  guess.  You're  not  go-  ing  to  be  a  mathematical  genius,  Miss  Taube.  You  better  cultivate  your  other  talents.&quot;  He  poured  some  coffee  out  of  his  thermos.  &quot;I  have  to  go  teach.  Sit  right  there  and  write  me  a  sonnet.  I'll  give  you  a  ride  home  if  you  want.&quot;  He  walked  off  quickly,  a  kind  of  fast,  barrelly  cowboy's  walk.  I  sighed  and  read  his  comments  on  Bobby  Belnick's  mythology  paper.  I  rum-  maged  in  the  desk  for  the  chocolates  he  kept  for  me  at  the  back  of  the  bottom  drawer.  He  loved  me.  TOLD  Mrs.  Hill,  &quot;Absolutely  no  more  pork  rinds.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  see  a  doctor  on  the  premises?&quot;  &quot;Come  on,  Mrs.  Hill,  it's  not  good  for  you.&quot;  There  was  no  other  adult  I  could  talk  to  like  that.  My  mother  neverdid  anything  that  wasn't  good  for  her,  my  fa-  ther's  arteries  were  of  no  interest  to  me,  and  Mr.  Stone,  who  knew  something  about  everything,  made  it  clear  that  we  could  talk  about  me  but  not  about  him.  &quot;Who  dropped  you  off?  I  heard  a  car  door.&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  liked  to  think  that  her  hearing  was  extra  sharp  to  make  up  for  her  eyesight.  &quot;Mr.  Stone.&quot;  Very  proud.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  &quot;He's  my  English  teacher  this  year.&quot;  &quot;Why's  he  dropping  you  off  here  all  the  time?&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  was  always  faintly  accusa-  tory.  I  shrugged,  which  I  knew  she  couldn't  see  but  would  feel,  and  started  peeling  carrots.  &quot;Elizabeth,  am  I  talking  to  myself?  Are  you  in  some  kind  of  trouble  at  school?&quot;&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  not.  I  imagine  he  dropped  me  off  here  because  I  was  going  here.&quot;  I  spoke  very  slowly  and  clearly,  to  show  her  how  stupid  she  was  being.  &quot;How  old  a  man  is  this  Mr.  Who?&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Stone.  How  should  I  know?  Old.  Do  you  want  these  carrots  pur\xc3\xa9ed  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  15,1996  or  in  circles,  to  go  with  peas  or  something?&quot;  &quot;He  drives  you  around  a  lot?&quot;  I  sliced  the  carrots  into  inedible  oversized  chunks  and  went  into  her  bedroom  to  gather  up  the  laundry.  She  would  just  have  to  sit  and  wait.  Her  feet  hurt  too  much  for  her  to  follow  me  around,  pestering  me.  &quot;Has  your  mother  met  him?  She  has  not.  Your  legs  are  getting  long.&quot;  I  shrugged  again.  &quot;You  stopped  wearing  your  glasses.  How  come?&quot;  &quot;Contacts.&quot;  I  loved  my  contacts.  I  loved  the  sharp  world  and  I  loved  my  eyes,  edged  in  black  eyeliner.  I  scratched  my  corneas  twice  because  I  couldn't  bear  to  take  the  lenses  out  except  to  sleep.  Mr.  Stone  dropped  me  off  there  on  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays.  From  then  on,  I  tried  to  shut  the  car  door  softly,  grabbing  it  with  both  hands  to  keep  it  from  slamming,  and  as  soon  as  I  walked  through  the  door  Mrs.  Hill  would  say,  &quot;Fool,&quot;  as  though  she  were  speaking  to  someone  else.  Charlotte  Macklin  was  the  school  so-  cial  worker,  and  if  she  had  heard  Mrs.  Hill  she  would  have  felt  better  about  me.  She  thought  no  one  gave  a  damn  that  I  spent  all  my  study  halls  in  Mr.  Stone's  office  and  was  frequently  seen  getting  into  hiscar  after  school.  Mrs.  Macklin  knew,  even  if  no  one  else  did,  that  al-  though  it  did  not  violate  any  school  rule,  it  undermined  morale  for  students  and  teachers  to  see  a  ninth-grade  girl  sitting  behind  the  desk  of  the  English  Depart-  ment  chairman,  sipping  coffee  out  of  his  thermos,  showing  her  boot  bottoms  to  the  passing  world.  Mrs.  Hill  said,  &quot;Please  bring  him  by.&quot;  R.  STONE  drove  me  almost  every  afternoon,  and  in  the  cocoon  of  his  old  Saab  I  inhaled  the  smoky  air  and  held  my  breath,  to  make  the  trip  seem  longer.  He  lent  me  money  to  pick  up  a  soda  for  Mrs.  Hill,  andwatched  me  put  on  lip  gloss  in  his  visor  mirror  and  " b"  smoothed  down  my  bangs.  Comic-book  remnants  and  paper  cups  and  empty  cig-  arette  packs  covered  my  sneakers.  &quot;You're  growing  up.&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  It  happens,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Do  you  babysit,  grownup?&quot;  I  had,  but  I  was  still  scared  to  stay  by  myself  at  night.  &quot;Yes.  I  mean,  not  much,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  I  can.&quot;  Mr.  Stone  frowned.  &quot;O.K.,  maybe  you'll  babysit  for  us  sometime.&quot;  He  pushed  my  hair  behind  my  ear,  squinting  at  me  through  the  smoke,  and  I  thought  that  he  would  never  ask  me  to  babysit,  that  we  would  never  take  a  long  drive  in  the  Saab,  riding  past  darkened  houses  in  the  moonlight.  But  he  would  have  if  Mrs.  Hill  hadn't  stuck  her  oar  in.  At  the  second  light,  I  said  what  Mrs.  Hill  wanted  me  to  say.  &quot;Mrs.  Hill  would  like  to  meet  you.  She  used  to  teach,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;Really.&quot;  &quot;She  said  she  did.  She  wants  you  to  come  in.  Mr.  Stone  didn't  answer  that.  I  wore  my  low-riding  bell-bottoms  and  my  Mexican  blouse  with  the  lemons  and  or-  anges  and  red  hearts  swirling  down  the  front  of  my  breasts.  I  sat  completely  up-  right  so  my  stomach  wouldn't  come  close  to  my  belt.  He  said,  &quot;Pretty  blouse.&quot;  He  didn't  look  at  me.  He  talked  like  a  father,  about  his  sons.  Such  good  kids  and  ex-  ceptionally  bright,  which  even  my  par-  ents  said  about  me.  I  told  Mr.  Stone  I  loved  children,  and  he  laughed.  He  looked  out  the  side  window.  &quot;You  know,  I  grew  up  in  a  place  a  lot  like  this.  Mostly  white,  though.  My  God,  look  at  those.&quot;  He  pointed  to  twin  blue-shuttered  houses  with  orderly  twin  gardens  and  bitty  porches,  each  with  two  chairs  and  a  small  plastic  table  set  with  four  tall  pink  glasses  and  matching  pitchers.  &quot;You  smell  that?  That's  the  smell  of  the  [REDACTED],  right  there.  Mint,  dirt,  and  cornstarch.  Do  you  want  me  to  come  in  now?&quot;  &quot;I  think  it  would  be  nice.&quot;  I  led  him  in  the  kitchen  door,  describing  our  progress  so  Mrs.  Hill  wouldn't  be  sur-  prised  and  pissy  about  it.  &quot;We're  here,  Mrs.  Hill.  I  brought  Mr.  Stone,  my  En-  glish  teacher.  He  thought  he'dstop  by  and  say  hi.&quot;  Mr.  Stone  didn't  look  like  he  appre-  69  ciated  being  shanghaied  into  the  middle  of  Mrs.  Hill's  blue  brocade  living-room  set.  Mrs.  Hill  looked  right  at  him,  which  was  like  turning  her  back.  &quot;Welcome,  Mr.  Stone.  Elizabeth's  fa-  mous  English  teacher.  Honey,  why  don't  you  make  us  some  tea?&quot;  I  just  stood  there  until  Mrs.  Hill  flapped  her  hands  a  couple  of  times  like  I  was  a  loose  chicken,  and  then  I  backed  out,  watching  Mr.  Stone.  He  smiled  at  Mrs.  Hill  and  flapped  a  hand,  too.  I  lis-  tened  on  the  other  side  of  the  kitchen  door,  which  was  so  thin  I  could  hear  Mrs.  Hill  sighing  and  Mr.  Stone  sighing  back.  &quot;Could  you  come  a  little  closer?  My  eyesight's  not  so  good.&quot;  Mrs.  Hill's  sweet-little-old-lady  voice.  I  heard  him  drag  the  ottoman  over,  which  meant  he  was  now  sitting  a  good  six  inches  below  her,  putting  them  face  to  face.  Ear  to  face,  since  Mrs.  Hill  was  probably  trying  to  get  him  in  her  sights.  &quot;You're  not  even  a  young-looking  man,&quot;  she  said,  and  I  heard  Mr.  Stone  laugh.  &quot;No,  ma'am.&quot;  He  sounded  different,   " b"TO  43616e616461ern,  not  his  classroom  voice,  not  his  smoking-in-the-car  voice.  &quot;Come  a  little  closer,&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  said.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Carolina.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  ma'am.  Kershaw.  And  you&quot;&quot;  &quot;Mars,  Alabama.&quot;  The  tip  of  his  nose  had  to  be  denting  her  puddingy  cheek  for  them  to  be  talk-  ing  so  quietly.  &quot;All  the  way  from  Kershaw.  My.&quot;  For  a  minute  I  didn't  hear  anything.  &quot;And  what  do  you  want  with  my  girl?  You  like  girls  in  particular?  Children?&quot;  Mr.  Stone  breathed  in  fast.  I  wanted  to  rush  in  and  hit  her,  and  as  she  lay  on  the  floor  we  would  drive  off  to  someplace  pas-  tel  and  foreign  in  our  dark-red  convertible.  &quot;No,  ma'am.  I'm  not  like  that.  I  don't  prefer  girls  to  women.  I've  got  a  wife  at  home.  And  three  boys.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  she  said,  and  I  thought,  So  there,  and  wondered  how  close  they  werenow.  I  could  just  see  a  sliver  of  his  shoe  tips  pointed  toward  the  recliner.  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  he  echoed.  &quot;I  know  it  doesn't  seem  right.  I  could  lie  to  you,  that's  what  a  reasonable  man  would  do.  A  reasonable  man,  oh  Jesus.  I  beg  your  pardon,  ma'am.&quot;  I  heard  Mrs.  Hill's  wheezing  and  Mr.  Stone's  deep  coughand  the  clock  on  the  mantel.  &quot;I  don't  do  anything  I  shouldn't,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Except  what  you're  thinking,  and  you  won't  stop  that,  will  you?&quot;  &quot;Can't,  not  won't.  How  can  I?  I'm  not  leaving  town,  if  that's  what  you  mean.  And  that's  what  it  would  take,  about  three  thousand  miles.  Could  we  throw  in  an  ocean?&quot;  Very  softly,  Mrs.  Hill  said,  &quot;We  could  throw  in  two  oceans  for  all  the  good  it'll  do  you,  and  you  know  we  should,  be-  cause  there  is  no  glory  coming  from  this  and  this  is  not  a  conversation  about  for-  giveness.  I  don't  care  how  you  end,  that's  your  concern,  or  your  poor  wife's.  You  put  one  hand  on  that  child,  who  thinks  you  love  her  fine  mind,  one  hand,  even  when  she's  more  grown,  and  I'll  see  you  turning  in  Hell,  listen  to  you  pray  for  death.  And  don't  think  I  won't  know.  That  child  tells  me  everything.  So  maybe  you  can  keep  your  hands  to  yourself,  and  I  won't  have  to  think  so  badly  of  you.  Mis-tuh  Stone.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  ma'am.  I  don't  want  you  to  think  badly  of  me,  and  I  don't  want  to  think  badly  of  myself.  I  have  no  inten-  tion  of  harming  her.  You  must  see  that  whatever  it  looks  like,  itis  love.  And  I  have  to  say  it  is,  in  part,  for  her  fine  mind.  I  give  you  my  word.  Well,  I  don't  have  much  else,  under  the  circumstances.  I  would  cut  off  my  hand  first.&quot;  It  didn't  sound  as  though  it  was  so  hard  for  him  togive  me  up  and  just  ad-  mire  my  mind  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  He  didn't  sound  so  madly  in  love  with  me  that  it  was  scaring  him  and  Mrs.  Hill.  He  just  sounded  happy  to  be  talking  [REDACTED]-  ern,  the  two  of  them  purring  along,  word  endings  gone  to  nothing,  their  voices  loopier  and  wider  and  sweeter  than  when  they  talked  to  me.  I  brought  in  the  teacups,  went  back  for  the  spoons,  and  had  to  go  back  a  third  time,  for  mill;  Mr.  Stone  poured.  Mrs.  Hill  told  a  couple  of  funny  stories  about  the  kids  in  her  Sunday-school  class,  all  of  them  now  at  least  Mr.  Stone's  age,  and  Mr.  Stone  slapped  his  leg  and  laughed.  I  walked  him  to  the  door,  and  he  said  my  name  and  straightened  my  shirt  col-   lar.  I  lifted  my  shoulders  to  meet  his  fin-  gers,  and  he  dropped  the  little  bit  of  shirt  he'd  been  holding.  Mrs.  Hill  said  of  course  he  should  come  by  again,  and  he  said  of  course  he  would  hope  to  come  again,  without  imposing  on  her  hospital-  ity,  it  would  be  a  pleasure.  I  closed  the  door  behind  him.  She  was  already  sighing  and  sucking  her  teeth,  getting  warmed  up  for  something.  &quot;That's  your  Mr.  Stone.&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  You  want  turkey  tetrazzini?  You've  got  that  three-bean  salad  from  last  weekend.&quot;  I  turned  on  the  radio.  &quot;All  right.  In  a  minute.  Come  in  here,  Elizabeth.  Are  you  going  to  make  me  shout  all  night?&quot;  &quot;No,  ma'am,&quot;  I  said,  sighing  at  least  as  loudly  as  she  had.  The  ottoman  was  still  warm,  even  damp,  from  when  Mr.  Stone  sat  on  it  and  told  her  he  loved  me.  &quot;He  sure  does  like  you.  And  you  like  him.&quot;  &quot;He's  O.K.  He  likes  poetry.&quot;  " b" &quot;  'Who  is  she  that  looketh  forth  as  the  morning  /  Fair  as  the  moon  /  Clear  as  the  sun  /  And  terrible  as  an  army  with  banners?&quot;  Like  that?&quot;  Mrs.  Hill  said.  I  didn't  answer,  just  walked  into  the  kitchen  while  she  was  reciting.  &quot;You're  in  the  room,  you're  out  of  the  room,  I  know  what  I  know.  Were  you  eavesdropping?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  what  you  know  and  I  don't  care  what  you  said.&quot;  &quot;Could  I  trouble  you  for  a  napkin?&quot;  I  put  the  napkin  in  her  lap  and  cooked  and  washed  up  while  she  ate,  which  took  forever.  &quot;I'm  going.&quot;  The  dishes  would  sit  right  there  on  her  TV  tray  until  Thursday.  &quot;The  plates,  sugar?&quot;  I  slammed  the  door.  [REDACTED].  STONE  stopped  waiting  for  me  in  the  parking  lot.  When  I  went  to  his  office,  there  were  always  other  kids  in  it,  kids  who  could  hardly  read  at  all,  kids  waiting  to  show  him  their  poems  or  ask  for  advice  or  just  sit  around  with  him.  I  ate  lunch  behind  the  field  house  until  school  ended,  and  watched  the  first  and  second  graders  at  recess  andsaw  which  girls  sat  by  themselves  near  the  monkey  bars  or  the  back  steps.  Mrs.  Hill  called  me  into  her  bedroom  one  day  and  gave  me  the  baby-pink  rose-  bud  cup  and  saucer  to  cheer  me  up.  My  mother  offered  to  send  me  any-  where  for  the  summer-to  sail  in  the  Caribbean,  toslop  pigs  and  make  jew-  elry  in  [REDACTED],  to  study  architecture  in  4974616c79.  I  took  a  job  at  the  library  and  boxed  old  magazines  and  stole  old  books  and  Mr.  Stone  didn't  call  me.  By  August,  Mrs.  Hill's  house  was  about  a  hundred  degrees  during  the  day.  We  had  so  many  fans  on  we  couldn't  hear  each  other,  which  was  fine  with  me.  Every  couple  of  days  she'd  point  out  some  handsome  guyon  the  soaps  and  say,  &quot;Now,  that's  a  nice  young  man,&quot;  as  if  the  next  step  was  for  me  to  call  CBS.  I  was  bored  stupid.  I  changed  boyfriends  four  times  and  played  strip  poker  in  Mimi  Tedeschi's  basement.  I  read  Ezra  Pound  and  &quot;Story  of  O&quot;  and  I  read  Georgette  Heyer.  I  wanted  to  tell  him  about  the  boys  and  the  books.  I  smelled  coffee  and  Barbasol  in  my  sleep  and  I  called  him.  I  said,  It's  me.  He  said,  I'll  teach  you  how  to  drive. "