 TRAIN  THE  train  gave  a  long,  shrill,  lonely  whistle,  and  seemed  to  gain  speed  as  it  rushed  downgrade  between  two  hills  covered  with  trees.  The  trees  were  covered  with  deep-red,  brown,  and  yellow  leaves.  The  leaves  fell  on  the  side  of  the  hill  and  scattered  down  to  the  gray  rocks  along  the  opposite  tracks.  When  the  en-  gine  blew  off  steam,  the  little  boys  could  see  the  white  cloud  strew  the  colored  leaves  against  the  side  of  the  hill.  The  en-  gine  hissed,  and  the  leaves  caught  in  the  steam  danced  like  leaves  in  a  whitewind.  &quot;See,  Lewis,  Jack  Frost  made  the  pretty  leaves.  Jack  Frost  paints  the  leaves  all  the  pretty  colors.  See,  Lewis:  brown,  and  purple,  and  orange,  and  yellow.&quot;  The  little  boy  pointed  and  paused  af-  ter  naming  each  color,his  finger  bent  against  the  glass  of  the  train  window.  The  baby  repeated  the  colors  after  him,  looking  intentlyfor  Jack  Frost.  It  was  hot  in  the  train,  and  the  car  was  too  close  to  the  engine,  making  it  impos-  sible  to  open  the  window.  More  than  once,  cinders  found  a  way  into  the  car  and  flew  into  the  baby's  eyes.  The  woman  raised  her  head  from  her  book  from  time  to  time  to  watch  the  little  boys.  The  car  was  filthy,  and  part  of  it  was  used  for  baggage.  Up  front,  the  pine  shipping  box  of  a  casket  stood  in  a  cor-  ner.  Wonder  what  poor  soulthat  is  in  there,  the  woman  thought.  Bags  and  trunks  covered  the  floor  up  front,  and  now  and  then  the  butcher  came  into  pick  up  candy,  or  fruit  or  magazines,  to  sell  back  in  the  white  cars.  He  would  come  in  and  pick  up  a  basket  with  candy,  go  out,  come  back;  pick  up  a  basket  of  fruit,  go  out;  come  back,  pick  up  magazines,  and  on  till  everything  had  been  carried  out;  then  he  would  start  all  over  again.  He  was  a  big,  fat  white  man  with  a  red  face,  and  the  little  boy  hoped  he  would  give  them  a  piece  of  candy;  after  all,  he  had  so  much,  and  Mama  didn't  have  any  nickels  to  give  them.  But  he  never  did.  The  mother  read  intently,  holding  a  page  in  her  hand  as  she  scanned,  then  turned  it  slowly.  They  were  the  only  pas-  GEOFFREY  sengers  in  the  section  of  seats  reserved  for  colored.  She  turned  her  head,  look-  ing  back  toward  the  door  leading  to  the  other  car;  it  was  time  for  the  butcher  to  return.  Her  brow  wrinkled  annoy-  edly.  The  butcher  had  tried  to  touch  her  breasts  when  she  and  the  boys  first  came  into  the  car,  and  she  had  spat  in  his  face  and  told  him  to  keep  his  dirty  hands  where  they  belonged.  The  butcher  had  turned  red  and  gone  hurriedly  out  of  the  car,  his  baskets  swinging  violently  on  his  arms.  She  hated  him.  Why  couldn't  a  Negro  woman  travel  with  her  two  boys  without  being  molested?  The  train  was  past  the  hills  now,  and  into  fields  that  were  divided  by  crooked  wooden  fences  and  that  spread  rolling  and  brown  with  stacks  of  corn  as  far  as  the  blue  horizon  fringed  with  trees.  The  fences  reminded  the  boy  of  the  crooked  man  who  walked  a  crooked  mile.  Red  birds  darted  swiftly  past  the  car,  ducking  down  into  the  field,  then  shoot-  ing  up  again  when  you  looked  past  to  see  the  tele-  phone  poles  and  fields  turning,  and  sliding  away  from  the  train.  The  boys  were  having  a  good  time  of  it.  It  was  their  first  trip.  The  countryside  was  bright  gold  with  Indian  summer.  Way  across  a  field,  a  boy  was  leading  a  cow  by  a  rope  and  a  dog  was  barking  at  the  cow's  feet.  It  was  a  nice  dog,  the  boy  on  the  train  thought,  a  collie.  Yes,  that  was  the  kind  of  dog  it  was-a  collie.  A  freight  was  passing,  going  in  the  di-  rection  of  [REDACTED]  City,  passing  so  swiftly  that  its  orange-and-red  cars  seemed  a  streak  of  watercolor  with  gray  spaces  punched  through.  The  boy  felt  funny  whenever  he  thought  of  Okla-  homa  City,  like  he  wanted  to  cry.  Per-  haps  they  would  never  go  back.  He  won-  dered  what  Frank  and  R.C.  and  Petey  were  doing  now.  Picking  peaches  for  Mr.  Stewart?  A  lump  rose  in  his  throat.  Too  bad  they  had  to  leave  just  when  Mr.  Stewart  .,  had  promised  them  half  of  all  the  peaches  Mthey  could  pick.  He  sighed.  The  train  &gt;  whistle  sounded  very  sad  and  lonesome.  Well,  now  they  were  going  to  McAlester,  where  Mama  would  have  a  nice  job  and  enough  money  to  pay  the  bills.  Gee,  Mama  must  have  been  a  good  worker  for  Mr.  Balinger  to  send  all  the  way  to  [REDACTED]  City  for  her  to  come  work  for  him.  Mama  was  happy  to  go,  and  he  was  glad  for  Mama  to  be  happy;  she  worked  so  hard  now  that  Daddy  was  gone.  He  closed  his  eyes  tight,  trying  to  see  the  picture  of  Daddy.  He  must  never  forget  how  Daddy  looked.  He  would  look  like  that  himself  when  he  grew  up:  tall  and  kind  and  always  joking  and  reading  books.  .  ..  Well,  just  wait;  when  he  got  big  and  carried  Mama  and  Lewis  back  to  [REDACTED]  City  everybody     Ralph  Ellison  was  ei  ghty  when  he  died,  in  1994,  and  had  been  working  on  his  last,  still  incomplete,  novel  for  thirty-five  years.  would  see  how  well  he  took  care  of  Mama,  and  she  would  say,  &quot;See,  these  are  my  two  boys,&quot;  and  would  be  very  proud.  And  every-  body  would  say,  &quot;See,  aren't  Mrs.  Weaver's  boys  two  fine  men?&quot;  That  was  the  way  it  would  be.  The  thought  made  him  lose  some  of  the  lump  that  came  into  his  throat  when  he  thought  of  never,  never  going  back,  and  he  turned  tosee  who  it  was  coming  through  the  door.  A  white  man  and  a  little  boy  came  into  the  car  and  walked  up  front.  His  mother  looked  up,  then  lowered  her  eyes  to  her  book  again.  He  stood  up  and  looked  over  the  backs  of  the  chairs,  try-  ing  to  see  what  the  man  and  boy  were  doing.  The  white  boy  held  a  tiny  dog  in  his  arms,  stroking  its  head.  The  little  white  boy  asked  the  man  to  let  him  take  the  dog  out,  but  the  man  said  no,  and  they  went,  rocking  from  side  to  side,  out  of  the  car.  The  dog  must  have  been  asleep,  because  all  the  time  he  hadn't  made  a  sound.  The  little  white  boy  was  dressed  like  the  kids  you  see  in  moving  pictures.  Did  he  have  a  bike?  the  boy  wondered.  He  looked  out  the  window.  There  were  horses  now,  a  herd  of  them,  run-  ning  and  tossing  their  manes  and  tails  and  pounding  the  ground  all  wild  when  the  whistle  blew.  He  saw  himself  on  a  white  horse,  swinging  a  l-a-r-i-a-t  over  the  broncos'  heads  and  yelling  &quot;Yip,  yip,  yippee!&quot;  like  Hoot  Gibson  in  the  mov-  ies.  The  horses  excited  Lewis,  and  he  beat  his  hands  against  the  window  and  cried,  &quot;Giddap!  Giddap!&quot;  The  boy  smiled  and  looked  at  his  mother.  She  was  looking  up  from  her  page  and  smiling,  too.  Lewis  was  cute,  he  thought.  They  stopped  at  a  country  town.  Men  were  standing  in  front  of  the  station,  watching  the  porter  throw  off  a  bunch  of  newspapers.  Then  several  white  men  came  into  the  car  and  one  said,  &quot;This  must  be  it,&quot;  and  pointed  to  the  big  box,  and  the  porter  said,  &quot;Yeah,  this  is  it  all  right.  It's  the  only  one  we  got  this  trip,  so  this  must  be  the  one.&quot;  Then  the  porter  jumped  out  of  the  car  and  went  into  the  station.  The  men  were  dressed  in  black  suits  with  white  shirts.  They  seemed  very  uncomfortable  with  their  high  col-  lars,  and  acted  very  solemn.  They  pushed  the  box  over  gently  and  lifted  it  out  the  side  door  of  the  car.  The  white  men  in  overalls  watched  them  from  the  platform.  They  put  the  box  ina  wagon,  and  the  man  said  &quot;Giddap&quot;  to  the  horses  and  they  drove  away,  the  men  on  the  back  with  the  box  looking  very  straight  and  stiff.  One  of  the  men  on  the  platform  was  picking  his  teeth  and  spitting  tobacco  juice  on  the  ground.  The  station  was  painted  green,  and  a  sign  on  the  side  read  &quot;Tube  Rose  Snuff,&quot;  and  showed  a  big  white  flower;  it  didn't  look  like  a  rose,  though.  It  was  hot,  and  the  men  had  their  shirts  open  at  the  collar  and  wore  red  bandannas  around  their  necks.  They  were  standing  in  the  same  position  when  the  train  pulled  out,  staring.  Why,  12     THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  29  &amp;  MAY  6,1996  &quot;Good,  Hennings,  but  sprinkle  them  around  a  little.&quot;  he  wondered,  did  white  folks  stare  at  you  that  way?  Outside  the  town,  he  saw  a  big  red  rock  barn  standing  behind  some  trees,  Beside  it  stood  something  he  had  never  seen  before.  It  was  high  and  round  and  made  out  of  the  same  kind  of  rock  as  the  barn.  He  climbed  into  his  seat  and  pointed.  &quot;What  is  that  tall  thing,  Mama?&quot;  he  said.  She  raised  her  head  and  looked.  &quot;It's  a  silo,  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;That's  where  the  corn  is  stored.&quot;  Her  eyes  were  strangely  distant  when  she  turned  her  face  back  to  him.  The  sun  slanted  across  her  eyes,  and  her  skin  was  brown  and  clear.  He  eased  down  into  the  seat.  81/0,  sio.  Almost  as  tall  as  the  Colcord  Building  in  [REDACTED]  City  that  Daddy  helped  to  build  ...  He  jumped,  startled;  Mama  was  call-  ing  his  name  with  tears  in  her  voice.  He  turned  around  and  tears  were  on  her  face.  &quot;Come  around  here,  James,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Bring  Lewis.&quot;  He  took  Lewis  by  the  hand  and  moved  into  the  seat  beside  her.  What  had  they  done?  &quot;James,  [REDACTED];  she  said.  &quot;That  old  silo  back  there's  been  here  a  long  time.  It  made  me  remember  when  years  ago  me  and  your  Daddy  came  over  this  same  old  Rock  Island  line  on  our  way  to  Okla-  homa  City.  We  had  just  been  married  and  was  very  happy  going  West  because  we  had  heard  that  colored  people  had  a  chance  out  here.&quot;  James  smiled,  listening;  he  loved  to  hear  Mama  tell  about  when  she  and  Daddy  were  young,  and  about  what  they  used  to  do  down  [REDACTED].  Yet  he  felt  this  was  to  be  something  different.  Some-  thing  in  Mama's  voice  was  vast  and  high,  like  a  rainbow;  yet  something  sad  and  deep,  like  when  the  organ  played  in  church,  was  around  Mama's  words.  &quot;Son,  I  want  you  to  remember  this  trip,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  understand,  son.  I  want  you  to  remember.  You  must,  you've  got  to  understand.&quot;  James  sensed  something;  he  tried  hard  to  understand.  He  stared  into  her  face.  Tears  were  glisten-  ing  in  her  eyes,  and  he  felt  he  would  ery  himself.  He  bit  his  lip.  No,  he  was  the  man  of  the  family,  and  he  couldn't  act  like  the  baby.  He  swallowed,  listening.  &quot;You  remember  this,  James,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  came  all  the  way  from  [REDACTED]  on  this  same  railroad  line  fourteen  years  ago,so  things  would  be  better  for  you  children  when  you  came.  You  must  re-  member  this,  James.  We  travelled  far,  looking  for  a  better  world,  where  things  wouldn't  be  so  hard  like  they  were  down  [REDACTED].  That  was  fourteen  years  ago,  James.  Now  your  father's  gone  from  us,  and  you're  the  man.  Things  are  hard  for  us  colored  folks,  son,  and  it's  just  us  three  alone  and  we  have  to  stick  together.  Things  is  hard,  and  we  have  to  fight.  .  ..  O  Lord,  we  have  to  fight!  ..  .&quot;  She  stopped,  her  lips  pressed  tight  together  as  she  shook  her  head,  overcome  with  emotion.  James  placed  his  arm  around  her  neck  and  caressed  her  cheek.  &quot;Yes,  Mama,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  won't  forget.&quot;  He  could  not  get  it  all,  but  yet  he  understood.  It  was  like  under-  standing  what  music  without  words  said.  He  felt  very  full  inside.  Now  Mama  was  pulling  him  close  to  her;  the  baby  rested  against  her  other  side.  This  was  familiar;  since  Daddy  died  Mama  prayed  with  them,  and  now  she  was  beginning  to  pray.  He  bowed  his  head.  &quot;Go  with  us  and  keep  us,  Lord.  Then  it  was  me  and  him,  Lord;  now  it's  me  and  his  children.  And  I'm  thankful,  Lord.  You  saw  fit  to  take  him,  Lord,  and  it's  well  with  my  soul  in  Thy  name.  I  was  happy,  Lord;  life  was  like  a  mockingbird  a-sing-  ing.  And  all  I  ask  now  is  to  stay  with  these  children,  to  raise  them  and  protect  them,  Lord,  till  they're  old  enough  to  go  their  way.  Make  them  strong  and  unafraid,  Lord.  Give  them  strength  to  meet  this  world.  Make  them  brave  to  go  where  things  is  better  for  our  people,  Lord.  ..  .&quot;  James  sat  with  head  bowed.  Always  when  Mama  prayed,  he  felt  tight  and  smoldering  inside.  And  he  kept  re-  membering  his  father's  face.  He  could  not  remember  Daddy  ever  praying,  but  ELLISON'S  STORIES  Daddy's  voice  had  been  deep  and  strong  when  he  sang  in  the  choir  on  Sunday  mornings.  James  wanted  to  cry,  but,  vaguely,  he  felt  something  should  be  pun-  ished  for  making  Mama  cry.  Something  cruel  had  made  her  ery.  He  felt  the  tight-  ness  in  his  throat  becoming  anger.  If  he  only  knew  what  it  was,  he  would  fix  it;  he  would  kill  this  mean  thing  that  made  Mama  feel  so  bad.  It  must  have  been  awful  because  Mama  was  strong  and  brave  and  even  killed  mice  when  the  white  woman  she  used  to  work  for  only  raised  her  dress  and  squealed  like  a  girl,  afraid  of  them.  If  he  only  knew  what  it  was  ...  Was  it  God?  &quot;Please  keep  us  three  together  in  this  strange  town,  Lord.  The  road  is  dark  and  long  and  my  sorrows  heavy  but,  if  it  be  Thy  will,  Lord,  let  me  educate  my  boys.  Let  me  raise  them  so  they'll  be  better  able  to  live  this  life.  I  don't  want  to  live  for  myself,  Lord,  just  for  these  boys.  Make  them  strong,  upright  men,  Lord;  make  them  fighters.  And  when  my  work  on  earth  is  done,  take  me  home  to  Thy  kingdom,  Lord,  safe  in  the  arms  of  Jesus.&quot;  He  heard  her  voice  trail  off  to  a  tor-  tured  moan  behind  her  trembling  lips.  Tears  streamed  down  her  face.  James  was  miserable;  he  did  not  like  to  see  Mama  cry,  and  turned  his  eyes  to  the  window  as  she  began  wiping  away  the  tears.  He  was  glad  she  was  through  now  because  the  butcher  would  be  coming  back  into  the  car  in  a  few  minutes.  He  did  not  want  a  white  man  to  see  Mama  cry.  They  were  crossing  a  river  now.  The  slanting  girders  of  a  bridge  moved  slowly  past  the  train.  The  river  was  muddy  and  red,  rushing  along  beneath  them.  The  train  stopped,  and  the  baby  was  pointing  to  a  cow  on  the  banks  of  the  river  below.  The  cow  stood  gazing  out  over  the  wa-  ter,  chewing  her  cud-looking  like  a  cow  in  the  baby's  picture  book.  &quot;Bowwow!&quot;  the  baby  said.  Then  ques-  tioningly:  &quot;Bowwow?&quot;  &quot;No,  Lewis,  it's  a  cow,&quot;  James  said.  &quot;Moo,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Cow.&quot;  The  baby  laughed,  delighted.  &quot;Moo-00.&quot;  He  was  very  interested.  James  watched  the  water.  The  train  was  moving  again,  and  he  wondered  why  his  mother  cried.  It  wasn't  just  that  Daddy  was  gone;  it  didn't  sound  just  that  way.  It  was  something  else.  I'll  kill  it  when  I  get  big,  he  thought.  I'll  make  it  ery  just  like  it's  making  Mama  cry!  The  train  was  passing  an  oil  field.  There  were  many  wells  in  the  field;  and  13  big  round  tanks,  gleaming  like  silver  in  the  sun.  One  well  was  covered  with  boards  and  looked  like  a  huge  Indian  wigwam  against  the  sky.  The  wells  all  pointed  straight  up  at  the  sky.  Yes,  I'll  kill  it.  I'll  make  it  cry.  Even  if  it's  God,  I'll  make  God  ery,  he  thought.  I'll  kill  him;  I'll  kill  God  and  not  be  sorry!  The  train  jerked,  gaining  speed,  and  the  wheels  began  clicking  a  ragged  rhythm  to  his  ears.  There  were  many  ad-  vertising  signs  in  the  fields  they  were  roll-  ing  past.  Allthe  signs  told  about  the  same  things  for  sale.  One  sign  showed  a  big  red  bull  and  read  &quot;Bull  Durham.&quot;  &quot;Moo-00,&quot;  the  baby  said.  James  looked  at  his  mother;  she  was  through  crying  now,  and  she  smiled.  He  felt  some  of  his  tightness  ebb  away.  He  grinned.  He  wanted  very  much  to  kiss  her,  but  he  must  show  the  proper  re-  serve  of  a  man  now.  He  grinned.  Mama  was  beautiful  when  she  smiled.  He  made  a  wish  never  to  forget  what  she  had  said.  &quot;This  is  1924,  and  I'll  never  forget  it,&quot;  he  whispered  to  himself.  Then  he  looked  out  the  window,  resting  his  chin  on  the  palm  of  his  hand,  wonder-  ing  how  much  farther  they  would  have  to  ride,  and  if  there  would  be  any  boys  to  play  football  in  McAlester.  