 b"T6  FICTION  THE  NIGHT  IN  QUESTION  RANCES  had  \xc2\xab  come  to  her  broth-  er's  apartment  to  hold  his  hand  over  &quot;*&quot;  a  disappointment  in  \xc2\xbb  love,  but  Frank  ate  _-  his  way  through  half  the  cherry  pie  she'd  brought  him  \xe2\x80\x94  and  barely  men-  tioned  the  woman.  He  was  in  an  exalted  state  over  a  sermon  he'd  heard  that  af-  ternoon.  Dr.  [REDACTED]  had  outdone  himself,  Frank  said.  This  was  his  best;  this  was  the  gold  standard.  Frank  wanted  to  repeat  it  to  Frances,  the  way  he  used  to  act  out  movie  scenes  for  her  when  they  were  young.  &quot;Gotta  run,  Franky.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  that  long,&quot;  Frank  said.  &quot;Five  minutes.  Ten-at  the  outside.&quot;  Three  years  earlier  he  had  driven  Fran-  ces's  car  into  a  highway  abutment  and  al-  most  died,  then  almost  died  again,  in  de-  tox,  of  a  grand-mal  seizure.  Now  he  wanted  to  preach  sermons  at  her.  She  supposed  she  was  grateful.  She  said  she'd  give  him  ten  minutes.  It  was  a  muggy  night,  but  as  always  Frank  wore  a  long-sleeved  shirt  to  hide  the  weird  tattoos  he  woke  up  with  one  morning  when  he  was  stationed  in  Ma-  nila.  The  shirt  was  white,  starched  and  crisply  ironed.  The  tie  he'd  worn  to  church  was  still  cinched  up  hard  under  his  prominent  Adam's  apple.  A  big  man  in  a  small  room,  he  paced  in  front  of  the  couch  as  he  gathered  himself  to  speak.  He  favored  his  left  leg,  whose  knee  had  been  shattered  in  the  crash;  every  time  his  right  foot  came  down,  the  dishes  clinked  in  the  cupboards.  &quot;O.K.,  here  goes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  have  to  \xef\xac\x81ll  in  here  and  there,  but  I've  got  most  of  &quot;  He  continued  to  walk,  slowly,  delib-  erately,  hands  behind  his  back,  head  bent  at  an  angle  that  suggested  meditation.  &quot;My  dear  friends,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  may  have  read  in  the  paper  not  long  ago  of  a  man  of  our  state,  a  parent  like  many  of  your-  selves  here  today  .  .  .  but  a  parent  with  a  terrible  choice  to  make.  His  name  is  Mike  Bolling.  He's  a  railroad  man,  Mike,  a     BY  TOBIAS  WOLFF  switchman,  been  with  the  railroad  ever  since  he  finished  high  school,  same  ashis  father  and  grandfather  before  him.  He  and  Janice've  been  married  ten  years  now.  They  were  hoping  for  a  whole  houseful  of  kids,  but  the  Lord  decided  to  give  them  one  instead,  avery  special  one.  That  was  nine  years  ago.  Benny,  they  named  him-  after  Janice's  father.  He  died  when  she  was  just  a  youngster,  but  she  remembered  his  big  lopsided  grin  and  the  way  he  threw  back  his  head  when  he  laughed,  and  she  was  hoping  some  of  her  dad's  spirit  would  rub  off  on  his  name.  Well,  it  turned  out  she  got  all  the  spirit  she  could  handle,  and  then  some.  &quot;Benny.  He  came  out  in  high  gear  and  never  shifted  down.  Mike  liked  tosay  you  could  run  a  train  off  him,  the  energy  he  had.  Good  student,  natural  athlete,  but  his  big  thing  was  mechanics.  One  of  those  boys,  you  put  him  in  the  same  room  with  a  clock  and  he's  got  it  inpieces  before  you  can  turn  around.  By  the  time  he  was  in  second  grade  he  could  put  the  clocks  back  together,  not  to  mention  the  vacuum  cleaner  and  the  TV  and  the  engine  of  Mike's  old  lawnmower.&quot;  This  didn't  sound  like  Frank.  Frank  was  plain  in  his  speech,  neither  formal  nor  folksy,  so  spare  and  sometimes  harsh  that  his  jokes  sounded  like  challenges,  or  insults.  Frances  was  about  the  only  one  who  got  them.  This  tone  was  putting  her  on  edge.  Something  terrible  was  going  to  happen  in  the  story,  something  Frances  would  regret  having  heard.  She  knew  that.  But  she  didn't  stop  him.  Frank  was  her  little  brother,  and  she  would  deny  him  nothing.  When  Frank  was  still  a  baby,  not  even  walking  yet,  Frank  Senior,  their  father,  had  set  out  to  teach  him  the  meaning  of  the  word  &quot;no.&quot;  At  dinner  he'd  dangle  his  wristwatch  before  Frank's  eyes,  then  say  &quot;No!&quot;  and  jerk  it  back  just  as  Frank  grabbed  for  it.  When  Frank  persisted,  Frank  Senior  would  slaphis  hand  until  he  was  howling  with  fury  and  desire.  This  happened  night  after  night.  Frank  would  not  take  the  lesson  to  heart;  as  soon  as  the  watch  was  offered,  he  snatched  at  it.  Frances  followed  her  mother's  example  and  said  nothing.  She  was  eight  years  old,  and  while  she  feared  her  father's  attention  she  also  missed  it,  and  resented  Frank's  obstinacy  and  the  disturbance  it  caused.  Why  couldn't  he  learn?  Then  her  father  slapped  Frank's  face.  This  was  on  New  Year's  Eve.  Frances  still  remembered  the  stupid  tasselled  hats  they  were  all  wearing  when  her  father  slapped  her  baby  brother.  In  the  void  of  time  after  the  slap  there  was  no  sound  but  the  long  rush  of  air  into  Frank's  lungs  as,  red-faced,  twisting  in  his  chair,  he  gathered  himself  to  scream.  Frank  Senior  lowered  his  head.  Frances  saw  that  he'd  surprised  himself  andwas  afraid  of  what  would  follow.  She  looked  at  her  mother,  whose  eyes  were  closed.  In  later  years  Frances  tried  to  think  of  a  mo-  ment  when  their  lives  might  have  turned  by  even  a  degree,  turned  and  gone  some  other  way,  and  she  always  came  back  to  this  instant  when  her  father  knew  the  wrong  he  had  done,  was  shaken  and  open  to  rebuke.  What  might  have  happened  if  her  motherhad  come  flying  out  of  her  chair  and  stood  over  him  and  told  him  to  stop,  now  and  forever?  Or  if  she  had  only  looked  at  him,  confirming  his  shame?  But  her  eyes  were  closed,  and  stayed  closed  until  Frank  blasted  them  with  his  despair  and  Frank  Senior  left  the  room.  As  Frances  knew  even  then,  her  mother  could  not  allow  herself  to  see  what  she  had  no  strength  to  oppose.  Her  heart  was  bad.  Three  years  later  she  reached  for  a  bottle  of  ammonia,  said  &quot;Oh,&quot;  sat  down  on  the  floor  and  died.  Frances  did  oppose  her  father.  In  defiance  of  his  orders,  she  brought  food  to  Frank's  room  when  he  was  banished,  stood  up  for  him  and  told  him  he  was  right  to  stand  up  for  himself.  Frank  Se-  nior  had  decided  that  his  son  needed  to  be  broken,  and  Frank  would  not  break.  He  went  after  everything  his  father  said  no  to,  with  Frances  egging  him  on  and  mothering  him  when  he  got  caught.  In  time,  their  father  ceased  to  give  rea-  $  sons  for  his  displeasure.  As  his  silence  Z  grew  heavier,  so  did  his  hand.  One  night  z  z  Frances  grabbed  her  father's  belt  as  he8  started  after  Frank,  and  when  he  flung  her  \xc2\xa3  G  " b"aside  Frank  head-rammed  him  in  the  stomach.  Frances  jumped  on  her  father's  back  and  the  three  of  them  crashed  around  the  room,  and  when  it  was  over  Frances  was  flat  on  the  floor  with  a  split  lip  and  a  ringing  sound  in  her  ear,  laugh-  ing  like  a  madwoman.  Frank  was  crying.  That  was  the  first  time.  Frank  Senior  said  no  to  his  son  in  ev-  erything,  and  Frances  would  say  no  to  him  in  nothing.  Frank  was  aware  of  her  reluctance  and  learned  to  exploit  it,  most  shamelessly  in  the  months  before  his  ac-  cident.  He'd  invaded  her  home,  caused  her  trouble  at  work,  nearly  destroyed  her  marriage.  To  this  day,  her  husband  had  not  forgiven  Frances  for  what  he  called  her  complicity  in  that  nightmare.  But  her  husband  had  never  been  thrown  across  a  room,  or  kicked,  or  slammed  head  first  intoa  door.  No  one  had  ever  spoken  to  him  as  her  father  had  spoken  to  Frank.  He  did  not  understand  what  it  was  to  be  helpless  and  alone.  No  one  should  be  alone  in  this  world.  Everyone  should  have  someone  who  kept  faith,  no  matter  what,  all  the  way.  \xe2\x80\x9cON  the  night  in  question,&quot;  Frank  said,  &quot;Mike's  foreman  called  up  and  asked  him  to  take  another  fellow's  shift  at  the  drawbridge  station  where  he'd  been  working.  A  Monday  night  it  was,  mid-  January,  bitter  cold.  Janice  was  at  a  PTA  meeting  when  Mike  got  the  call,  so  he  had  no  choice  but  to  bring  Benny  along  with  him.  It  was  against  the  rules,  strictly  speaking,  but  he  needed  the  overtime  and  he'd  done  it  before,  more  than  once.  No-  body  ever  said  anything.  Benny  always  be-  haved  himself,  and  it  was  a  good  chance  for  him  and  Mike  to  buddy  up,  batch  it  a  little.  They'd  talk  and  kid  around,  heat  up  some  franks,  then  Mike  would  set  Benny  up  with  a  sleeping  bag  and  air  mattress.  A  regular  adventure.  &quot;A  bitter  night,  like  I  said.  Therewas  a  furnace  at  the  station,  but  it  wasn't  working.  The  guy  Mike  relieved  had  on  his  parka  and  a  pair  of  mittens.  Mike  ribbed  him  about  it,  but  pretty  soon  he  and  Benny  put  their  own  hats  and  gloves  back  on.  Mike  brewed  up  some  hot  chocolate,  and  they  played  gin  rummy,  or  tried  to-it's  not  that  easy  with  gloves  on.  But  they  weren't  thinking  about  winning  or  losing.  It  was  good  enough  just  being  together,  the  two  of  them,  with  the  cold  wind  blowing  up  against  the  windows.  Father  and  son:  what  could  be  better  than  that?  Then  Mike  had  to  raise  the  bridge  for  a  couple  boats,  and  things  got  pretty  tense  because  one  of  them  steered  too  close  to  the  bank  and  almost  ran  aground.  The  skipper  had  to  reverse  engines  and  go  back  downriver  and  take  another  turn  at  it.  The  whole  business  went  on  a  lot  longer  than  it  should  have,  and  by  the  time  the  second  boat  got  clear  Mike  was  running  way  behind  schedule  and  under  pressure  to  get  the  bridge  down  for  the  express  train  out  of  [REDACTED].  That  was  when  he  noticed  Benny  was  missing.&quot;  Frank  stopped  by  the  window  and  looked  out  in  an  unseeing  way.  He  seemed  to  be  contemplating  whether  to  go  on.  But  then  he  turned  away  from  the  win-  dow  and  started  in  again,  and  Frances  un-  derstood  that  this  little  moment  of  reflec-  tion  was  just  another  part  of  the  sermon.  &quot;Mike  calls  Benny's  name.  No  answer.  He  calls  him  again,  and  he  doesn't  spare  the  volume.  You  have  to  understand  the  position  Mike  is  in.  He  has  to  get  the  bridge  down  for  that  train  and  he's  got  just  about  enough  time  to  do  it.  He  doesn't  know  where  Benny  is,  but  he  has  a  pretty  good  idea.  Just  where  he  isn't  sup-  posed  to  be.  Down  below,  in  the  engine  room.  &quot;The  engine  room.  The  mill,  as  Mike  and  the  other  operators  call  it.  You  can  imagine  the  kind  of  power  that's  needed  to  raise  and  lower  a  drawbridge,  aside  from  the  engine  itself-all  the  winches  and  levers,  pulleys  and  axles  and  wheels  and  so  on.  Massive  machinery.  Gigantic  screws  turning  everywhere,  gears  with  teeth  like  file  cabinets.  They've  got  cat-  walks  and  little  crawlways  through  the  works  for  the  mechanics,  but  nobody  goes  down  there  unless  they  know  what  they're  doing.  You  have  to  know  what  you're  do-  ing.  You  have  to  know  exactly  where  to  put  your  feet,  and  you've  got  to  keep  your  hands  in  close  and  wear  all  the  right  clothes.  And  even  if  you  know  what  you're  doing,  you  never  go  down  there  when  the  bridge  is  being  moved.  Never.  There's  just  too  much  going  on,  too  many  waysof  get-  ting  snagged  and  pulled  into  the  works.  Mike  has  told  Benny  a  hundred  times,  stay  out  of  the  mill.  That's  the  iron  rule  when  Benny  comes  out  to  the  station.  But  Mike  made  the  mistake  of  taking  him  down  for  a  quick  look  one  day  when  the  engine  was  being  serviced,  and  he  saw  how  Benny  lit  up  at  the  sight  of  all  that  steel,  all  that  machinery.  Benny  was  just  dying  to  get  his  hands  on  those  wheels  TT  and  gears,  see  how  everything  fit  together.  Mike  could  feel  it  pulling  at  Benny  like  a  big  magnet.  He  always  kept  a  close  eye  on  him  after  that,  until  this  one  night,  when  he  got  distracted.  And  now  Benny's  down  in  there.  Mike  knows  it  as  sure  as  he  knows  his  own  name.&quot;  Frances  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  hear  this  story.&quot;  Frank  gave  no  sign  that  he'd  heard  her.  She  was  going  to  say  something  else,  but  made  a  sour  face  and  let  him  go  on.  &quot;To  get  to  the  engine  room,  Mike  would  have  to  go  through  the  passageway  to  the  back  of  the  station  and  either  wait  for  the  elevator  or  climb  down  the  emer-  gency  ladder.  He  doesn't  have  time  to  do  the  one  or  the  other.  He  doesn't  have  time  for  anything  but  lowering  the  bridge,  and  just  barely  enough  time  for  that.  He's  got  to  get  that  bridge  down  now  or  the  train  is  going  into  the  river  with  everyone  on  board.  This  is  the  position  he's  in;  this  is  the  choice  he  has  to  make.  His  son,  his  Benjamin,  or  the  people  on  that  train.  &quot;Now,  let's  take  a  minute  to  think  about  the  people  on  that  train.  Mike's  never  met  anyof  them,  but  he's  lived  long  enough  to  know  what  they're  like.  They're  like  the  rest  of  us.  There  are  some  who  know  the  Lord,  and  love  their  neighbors,  and  do  right  by  them,  and  live  in  the  light.  And  there  are  the  others.  On  this  train  are  men  who  whisper  over  cunning  papers  and  take  from  the  widow  even  her  mean  portion.  On  this  train  is  the  man  whose  factories  kill  and  maim  his  workers.  There  are  thieves  on  this  train,  and  liars,  and  hypocrites.  There  is  the  man  whose  wife  is  not  enough  for  him,  who  cannot  be  happy  until  he  possesses  every  woman  who  walks  the  earth.  There  is  the  false  witness.  There  is  the  bribe-taker.  There  is  the  woman  who  abandons  her  husband  and  children  for  her  own  pleasure.  There  is  the  seller  of  spoiled  goods,  the  coward,  and  the  usurer,  and  there  is  the  man  who  lives  forhis  drug,  who  will  do  anything  for  that  false  promise-steal  from  those  who  give  him  work,  from  his  friends,  his  family,  yes,  even  from  his  own  family,  scheming  for  their  pity,  borrowing  in  bad  faith,  breaking  into  their  very  homes.  All  these  are  on  the  train,  awake  and  hungry  as  wolves,  and  also  on  the  train  are  the  sleepers,  the  sleepers  with  open  eyes  who  sleepwalk  through  their  days,  neither  do-  ing  evil  nor  resisting  it,  like  soldiers  who  lie  down  as  if  dead  and  will  not  join  the  battle,  not  for  their  cities  and  homes,  not  " b"  even  for  their  own  wives  and  children.  For  such  people,  how  can  Mike  give  up  his  own  son,  his  Benjamin,  who  is  guilty  of  nothing?  &quot;He  can't.  Of  course  he  can't,  not  on  his  own,  anyway.  But  Mike  isn't  on  his  own.  He  knows  what  we  all  know,  even  when  we  try  to  forget  it:  we  are  never  alone,  ever.  We  are  in  our  Father's  presence  in  the  light  of  day  and  in  the  dark  of  night,  even  in  that  darkness  where  we  run  from  Him,  hiding  our  faces  like  fearful  chil-  dren.  He  will  not  leave  us.  No.  Though  we  lock  every  window  and  bar  everydoor,  still  He  will  enter.  Though  we  empty  our  hearts  and  turn  them  to  stone,  yet  shall  He  make  His  home  there.  &quot;He  will  not  leave  us  alone.  He  is  with  all  of  you,  as  He  is  with  me.  He  is  with  Mike,  and  also  with  the  bribe-taker  on  the  train,  and  the  woman  who  needs  her  friend's  husband,  and  the  manwho  needs  a  drink.  He  knows  their  needs  better  than  they  do.  He  knows  that  what  they  truly  need  is  Him,  and  though  they  flee  His  voice  He  never  stops  telling  them  that  He  is  there.  And  at  this  moment,  when  Mike  has  nowhere  to  hide  and  nothing  left  to  tell  himself,  then  he  can  hear,  and  he  knows  that  he  is  not  alone,  andhe  knows  what  it  is  that  he  must  do.  It  has  been  done  before,  even  by  Him  who  speaks,  the  Father  of  All,  who  gave  His  own  son,  His  beloved,  that  others  might  be  saved.&quot;  &quot;No!&quot;  Frances  said.  Frank  stopped  and  looked  at  Frances  as  if  he  couldn't  remember  who  she  was.  &quot;That's  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  my  quota  of  holiness  for  the  year.&quot;  &quot;But  there's  more.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  can  see  it  coming.  The  guy  kills  his  kid,  right?  I  have  to  tell  you,  Frank,  that's  a  crummy  story.  What're  we  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  22,  1996  supposed  to  get  from  a  story  like  that-  we  should  kill  our  own  kid  to  save  some  stranger?&quot;  &quot;There's  more  to  it  than  that.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  then,  make  it  a  trainload  of  strangers,  make  it  zen  trainloads  of  strang-  ers.  I  should  do  this  because  the  so-called  Father  of  All  did  it?  Is  that  the  point?  How  do  people  think  up  stuff  like  this,  anyway?  It's  an  awful  story.&quot;  &quot;It's  true.&quot;  &quot;True?  Franky.  Please,  you're  not  a  moron.&quot;  &quot;Dr.  [REDACTED]  knows  a  man  who  was  on  that  train.&quot;  &quot;I'll  just  bet  he  does.  Let  me  guess.&quot;  Frances  screwed  her  eyes  shut,  then  popped  them  open.  &quot;The  drug  addict!  Yes,  and  he  reformed  afterward  and  worked  with  street  kids  in  [REDACTED]  and  showed  everybody  that  Mike's  sacrifice  was  not  in  vain.  Is  that  how  it  goes?&quot;  &quot;You're  missing  the  point,  Frances.  It  isn't  about  that.  Let  me  finish.&quot;  &quot;No.  It's  a  terrible  story,  Frank.  People  don't  act  like  that.  I  sure  as  hell  wouldn't.&quot;  &quot;You  haven't  been  asked.  He  doesn't  ask  us  to  do  what  we  can't  do.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  what  He  asks.  Where'd  you  learnto  talk  like  that,  anyway?  You  don't  even  sound  like  yourself.&quot;  &quot;I  had  to  change.  I  had  to  change  the  way  I  thought  about  things.  Maybe  I  sound  a  little  different,  too.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  well,  you  sounded  better  when  you  were  drunk.&quot;  Frank  seemed  about  to  say  something,  but  didn't.  He  backed  up  a  step  and  low-  ered  himself  into  a  hideous  plaid  La-Z-  Boy  left  behind  by  the  previous  tenant.  It  was  stuck  in  the  upright  position.  &quot;I  don't  care  if  the  Almighty  poked  a  gun  in  my  ear,  I  would  never  do  that,&quot;  Frances  said.  &quot;Not  in  a  million  years." b"THE  NIGHT  IN  QUESTION  Neither  would  you.  Honest,  now,  little  brother,  would  you  grind  me  up  ifI  was  the  one  down  in  the  mill,  would  you  push  the  Francesburger  button?&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  a  choice  I  have  to  make.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  yeah,  I  know.  But  say  you  did.&quot;  &quot;I  don't.  He  doesn't  hold  guns  to  our  heads.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  really?  What  about  Hell,  huh?  What  do  you  call  that?  But  so  what.  Screw  Hell,  I  don't  care  about  Hell.  Do  I  get  crunched  or  not?&quot;  &quot;Don't  put  me  to  the  test,  Frances.  It's  not  your  place.&quot;  &quot;I'm  down  in  the  mill,  Frank.  I'm  stuck  in  the  gears  and  here  comes  the  train  with  Mother  Teresa  and  five  hun-  dred  assholes  on  board,  whoo  whoo,  whoo  whoo.  Who,  Frank,  who?  Who's  it  going  to  be?&quot;  Frances  wanted  to  laugh.  Glumly  erect  in  the  chair,  hands  gripping  the  armrests,  Frank  looked  like  he  was  about  to  take  off  into  a  hurricane.  But  she  kept  that  little  reflection  to  herself.  Frank  was  thinking,  and  she  had  to  let  him.  She  knew  what  his  answer  would  be-in  the  end  there  could  be  no  other  answer-but  he  couldn't  just  say  my  sister  and  let  it  go  at  that.  No,  he'd  have  to  noodle  up  some  righteous,  high-sounding  reasons  for  choosing  her.  And  maybe  he  wouldn't,  at  first,  maybe  he'd  chicken  out  and  come  up  with  the  Bible-school  answer.  Frances  was  ready  for  that,  she  was  up  for  a  fight;  she  could  bring  him  around.  Frances  didn't  mind  a  fight,  and  she  especially  didn't  mind  fighting  for  her  brother.  For  her  brother  she'd  fought  neighborhood  punks,  snotty  teachers  and  unappreciative  coaches,  loan  sharks,  landlords,  bouncers.  From  the  time  she  was  a  scabby-kneed  girl  she'd  taken  on  her  own  father,  and  if  push  came  to  shove  she'd  take  on  the  Fa-  ther  of  All,  that  incomprehensible  bully.  She  was  ready.  It  would  be  like  old  times,  the  two  of  them  waiting  in  her  room  up-  stairs  while  Frank  Senior  worked  himself  into  a  rage  below,  muttering,  slamming  doors,  stinking  up  the  house  with  the  ci-  gars  he  puffed  when  he  was  on  a  tear.  She  remembered  it  all-the  tremor  in  her  legs,  the  hammering  pulse  in  her  neck  as  the  smell  of  smoke  grew  stronger.  She  could  still  taste  that  smoke  and  hear  her  father's  steps  on  the  stairs,  Frank  panting  beside  her,  moving  closer,  his  voice  whispering  her  name  and  her  own  voice  answering  as  fear  gave  way  to  ferocity  and  unaccount-  able  joy,  If's  O.K.,  Franky.  I'm  here.  "