 b"T6  FICTION  WHO  KNOWS  WHY  l  HAVE  to  be  careful  where  I  go  in  this  town.  Because  last  week  I  used  an  obscenity.  I  actually  called  out  an  ob-  scene  directive  to  a  clerk  in  a  paint  store.  I  can't  be-  Leve  that  I  did  such  a  thing.  At  the  time,  I  was  with  the  floorman-a  friend  of  ours-and  later  on  he  complimented  me  for  having  done  it.  &quot;But  there's  no  excuse  for  what  I  did,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  sick  with  remorse.  &quot;Why?  It  was  appropriate  for  the  sit-  uation,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  perfect,  as  a  mat-  ter  of  fact.&quot;  But  I  always  compare  myself  toJac-  queline  Kennedy  whenever  my  behavior  falls  short  of  my  expectations,  and  I  know  that  she  would  never  under  any  circumstances  have  used  a  curse  word  in  public.  I  make  the  comparison  even  though  I'm  a  generation  below  hers,  to  say  nothing  of  my  social  class;  I'm  closer  to  her  daughter's  generation  than  to  hers,  but  I  know  that  her  daughter  would  never  usethe  word,  either.  Although  I  did  see  Princess  Radziwill  in  an  organic-food  market  one  June  day,  and  when  the  item  she  was  searching  for  was  unavailable  she  said,  &quot;Blast  it!&quot;  I'd  never  heard  the  word  exclaimed  before,  or  even  said  in  the  U.S.A.  I  had  followed  the  Princess  down  the  street  in  East  Hampton,  not  on  pur-  pose,  just  coincidentally;  we  were  on  the  way  to  the  same  store.  First,  I'd  noticed  the  Princess  in  an-  other  food  store  without  knowing  who  shewas.  Shewas  headed  toward  the  freezer.  The  reason  I  noticed  her  was  that  she  had  such  perfect-looking  legs  and  arms.  Her  perfect  limbs  were  visible  be-  cause  it  was  the  beginning  of  a  heat  wave  and  she  was  wearing  khaki  shorts  and  a  white  silk  T-shirt.  She  walked  over  to  the  freezer  ina  floppy  but  determined  way.  Her  hair  was  wet,  and  the  back  section  was  pinned  up  to  her  head  with  a  clip,  the  way  mine  might  be  during  a  heat  wave.  I  thought  she  was  just  some  forty-four-  year-old  woman  I'd  never  seen  in  these  parts  before.  But  when  I  checked  to  see what  face  went  with  the  perfect  limbs  I  was  surprised  to  recognize  Princess  Radziwill.  She  wasn't  wearing  any  make-  up  on  her  extremely  young-looking  face.  As  the  Princess  gathered  up  some  ordinary-looking  peaches  and  nectarines,  I  stared  at  her  and  calculated  her  waist  to  be  about  seventeen  inches-almost  the  same  sizeas  Scarlett  O'Hara's  and  also  the  same  as  a  neck  measurement  I'd  seen  in  the  collar  of  a  shirt  owned  by  Dr.  Ar-  nold  Loquesto,  the  world-renowned  re-  productive  surgeon  I'd  consulted  and,  later,  photographed.  Eventually,  I  left  the  store  for  the  street,  where  the  temperature  was  on  its  way  up  to  a  hundred,  although  it  wasn't  even  10  [REDACTED],  and  before  I  knew  it  the  Princess  was  in  front  of  me,  walking  in  her  fast,  unique  way  to  a  little  sports  car.  She  opened  the  door  and  dropped  her  bag  of  groceries  inside,  then  walked  quickly  down  the  street  and  into  the  or-  ganic  store.  There,  I  must  admit,  I  did  want  to  know  which  organic  product  the  Princess  would  be  interested  in.  I  hoped  she  wouldn't  be  buying  any  juice  from  the  juice  bar,  because  I  had  studied  the  setup  atthis  place  and  the  hygienic  situation  was  not  good.  The  carrots  were  none  too  clean,  in  my  opinion.  There  wasn't  much  else  to  buy  there.  There  was  only  one  of  everything,  or  not  even  one-there  was  one  of  a  few  things.  There  were  no  prices.  When  you  inquired  about  a  price,  all  the  sales  help  would  fall  into  a  dither  asking  each  other,  and  then  start  guessing.  If  anyone  asked  for  produce,  they'd  say,  &quot;In  the  cooler.&quot;  Once  the  owner  dida  little  pirouette  and  said,  &quot;Come  with  me  into  the  cooler!&quot;  The  cooler,  I  saw  when  he  opened  the  door,  was  at  least  clean.  In  the  early  days  of  organic  food,  customers  were  expected  to  go  into  unclean  coolers  all  the  time  and  pick  their  carrots  out  of  big  plas-  tic  sacks  on  the  floor.  But  I  didn't  want  to  dwell  on  thatpart  of  my  life,  the  hours  spent  in  coolers  in  lower  [REDACTED]  dig-  ging  out  a  few  carrots.  I  was  wishing  I  could  know  which  item  the  Princess  couldn't  find  that  hot  morn-  ing  when  I  spied  my  exercise  teacher,  wear-  ing  a  pink  tutu.  It  was  really  some  kind  of  tiny  summer  dress  with  a  ruffled  skirt  the  length  of  short  shorts.  Although  my  teacher  is  not  yet  thirty  and  her  legs  have  excellent  tone  from  her  life  of  exercise,  my  legs  are  better  shaped  and  I  would  never  have  worn  such  a  getup,  unless  I  was  eight  years  old.  Also,  this  teacher  is  Ger-  man  and  the  Germans  are  not  entitled  to  dress  so  frivolously.  She  has  a  guilty  way  about  her,  although  she  probably  hasn't  been  educated  on  the  subject  of  what  she  should  be  guilty  about.  She  was  furtively  ordering  some  kind  of  strange  juice  com-  bination  like  parsley-beet-celery.  She  had  told  me  some  time  ago  that  she  would  be  away  this  week.  So,  here  at  the  juice  area,  I  said  &quot;When  are  you  leaving?&quot;  and  she  said  &quot;Right  [REDACTED];  most  likely  a  lie  she  had  invented  on  the  spot.  Shewas  always  hid-  ing  something.  Everything  was  a  secret.  And  that  accent  got  on  my  nerves.  &quot;Vi-  sualize  something,&quot;  she  would  say  with  her  eyes  closed  during  the  class,  so  I'd  vi-  sualize  her  parents  and  her  grandparents  and  what  they  were  doing  in  1942.  &quot;Vi-  sualize  a  mountain  or  a  lake&quot;-she  would  say  &quot;waves,  wind,  water-when  you  do  this  exercise,&quot;  but  I  couldn't.  I'd  stare  right  at  her-she  didn't  even  look  German,  with  her  black  pixie  haircut;  I  looked  more  Ger-  man  than  she  did-and  I'd  picture  her  rel-  atives  in  their  uniforms.  I  think  she  knew  it,  too.  That's  why  she  was  nervous.  She  was  always  trying  to  cancel  my  classes  for  one  reason  or  another-a  course  in  a  far-  away  state,  a  yoga  festival,  this  or  that-  and  there  she  was,  on  a  day  she  was  sup-  posed  to  be  going  on  a  trip  to  [REDACTED],  right  here  in  town,  having  cancelled  class,  and  ordering  juice.  How  could  I  have  got-  ten  myself  a  German  exercise  teacher?  Shewas  the  only  one  who  stayed  all  win-  ter  and  wanted  to  have  a  year-round  cli-  entele.  That's  what  she  said-who  knew  the  real  reason?  I  had  picked  up  the  &quot;who  knows?&quot;  line  g  of  thinking  from  many  hours  of  talking  &amp;  on  the  phone  to  Dr.  Loquesto's  thirteen-  \xc2\xa3  a.  year-old  son.  He'd  launch  into  long  de-  2  " b"scriptions  of  a  person  or  an  event,  and  in  the  middle  he'd  say,  &quot;Who  knows  why?&quot;  One  incident  involved  a  woman  who  arrived  at  his  house  on  Sunday  afternoon  with  &quot;thirty  cakes  in  three  large  white  shopping  bags.&quot;  It  turned  out  that  the  woman  brought  thecakes  because  she  was  grateful  to  the  boy  for  once  giving  her  sixteen  different  phone  numbers  where  Dr.  Loquesto  might  be  reached.  &quot;She'sa  dentist,  and  a  baker  on  the  side,  or  else  she's  a  baker,  and  a  dentist  on  the  side-who  knows  which?-and  she  keeps  experimenting  with  recipes.  Each  one  is  worse  than  the  last.  Like  onewas  a  carrot  cake,  but  with  zucchini,  pump-  kins,  kiwis-it  was  filled  with  every  veg-  etable  ever  farmed!  And  shealways  in-  cludes  a  coffee  cake  with  millions  of  raisins,  and  #s,  which  I  hate.  Then,one  was  a  plain  yellow  cake  with  a  spongelike  feel.  When  you  cut  into  it  withyour  fork,  water  would  pour  out.&quot;  &quot;It  must  have  been  rum,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  I  swear  to  you  it  was  water,  be-  lieve  me,  plain  water/&quot;  The  dentist-baker  and  her  husband  and  two  little  children  stood  on  the  lawn  for  a  few  minutes  with  the  thirty  cakes  in  the  three  bags.  They  put  the  bags  down  and  began  discussing  different  routes  they  had  taken  to  get  to  [REDACTED]  from  Rhode  Island.  Then  they  left.  &quot;People  do  that-they  go  for  drives  in  good  weather  and  discuss  the  roads  they  took,&quot;  the  boy  explained.  Although  he  noticed  these  kinds  of  things,  he  was  ableto  leada  normal  life  and  knew  how  to  use  a  computer.  I  had  child-sat  and  cooked  vegetarian  dinners  for  him  a  few  times,  but  he  never  ate  any  of  the  meals.  Probably  the  boy  de-  scribed  my  salads  the  way  he  described  the  dentist's  cakes:  &quot;She  arrives  with  twelve  kinds  of  lettuce,  and  washes  the  leaves  hundreds  of  times  and  asks  for  a  lettuce  dryer-which  we  don't  have-  while  talking  about  the  waste  of  paper  towels,  and  ecology,  and  who  knows  what  other  liberal  ideas.  The  salad  alwayshas  to  have  this  olive-tasting  olive  oil  from  some  part  of  4974616c79-who  knows  which.  I  can't  eat  one  leaf  of  it!&quot;  \xc2\xa5  only  goal  that  hot  June  morning  was  to  go  to  the  hardware  store  and  purchase  as  many  fans  as  I  could  for  the  heat  wave.  But  now  I  was  wondering  how  the  Princess  could  look  so  good  and  calmly  go  about  her  errands  when  some-  one  had  built  a  gigantic  concrete  house  in  the  style  of  an  airplane  hangar  right  next  to  hers,  with  a  concrete  wall  that  blocks  the  view  the  Princess  once  had  of  the  sun-  set,  the  sky,  the  beach,  and  the  water.  What  did  she  say  when  that  happened?  I  hoped  she  used  a  curse  word.  Often,  I  was  stopped  by  strangers  on  my  walk  to  pho-  tograph  the  nearby  pond  and  they'd  ask,  &quot;How  did  the  town  allow  this?&quot;  thing  I  hadn't  bothered  to  research,  be-  cause  I  was  always  wishing  we  could  move  away  to  a  normal  place  where  there  were  no  princesses.  But  if  we  moved  to  a  new  town  I'd  need  the  services  of  the  floorman,  and  that  might  start  things  up  again.  LL  we  did  was  add  two  small  rooms.  I  haven't  even  mentioned  the  builder.  That's  because  he's  become  the  unmentionable  one.  &quot;Sure,  he's  the  best  painter,  but  is  it  worth  it?&quot;  the  builder  would  say  about  the  painter.  Then  I  asked  him  who  he  would  recommend,  and  he  said,  &quot;No  one.  They've  all  breathed  too  many  fumes  and  it's  affected  them  this  way.&quot;  T'd  go  into  one  of  the  three  paint  stores  and  the  ownerwould  say  &quot;How  are  you  doing  with  your  painter?&quot;  and  then  he'd  laugh-a  crazed,  knowing  laugh.  Once,  this  encouraged  me  to  confide  in  him:  &quot;The  assistant  rolled  the  paint  onto  the  floor  instead  of  using  a  brush  and  it  left  roller  marks  all  over,  so  the  main  painter  had  to  do  it  again.  He  took  my  boxes  and  files  of  photographs,  and  all  my  camera  equipment  from  my  new  workroom,  and  piled  it  up  in  the  bathtub  on  top  of  the  boxes.  Then  he  threw  in  whatever  clean-  ing  equipment  was  around-a  mop,  a  pail,  a  can  of  Comet,  and  a  sponge-and  sanded  the  paint  off  the  floor  without  covering  anything.  When  he  finished,  ev-  erything  was  covered  with  light-green  paint  dust  and  I  couldn't  get  to  my  equip-  ment  in  the  tub  because  he'd  repainted  the  floor  and  it  was  wet.&quot;  &quot;That  sounds  like  him,&quot;  the  paint-  store  owner  said.  &quot;Do  you  know  any  other  painters?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  know  some  good  ones,  but  you  have  the  best.  He's  a  perfectionist.  That'sthe  whole  thing.&quot;  I'd  once  seen  the  painter  eating  a  peanut-butter  sandwich  and  a  banana  in  TT  our  hallway.  Isaid,  &quot;That  was  Elvis  Pres-  ley's  favorite  meal.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  but  he  ate  them  together  on  the  same  sandwich,&quot;  he  said.I  was  impressed  that  the  painter  knew  such  a  thing.  Then  I  tried  asking  him  for  a  floorman  and  he  said,  &quot;There  are  two.  One  drinks.  The  other  doesn't  show  up.&quot;  All  the  workmen  hated  each  other.  They  blamed  each  other  for  whatever  went  wrong.  The  builder  fired  our  plumber  and  hired  his  own.  One  day  this  new  plumber  didn't  show  up-  the  reason  given  was  that  a  shark  bit  his  arm  and  heneeded  seventeen  stitches,  or  seventeen  inches  of  stitches.  When  you  live  near  theocean,  you  hear  excuses  of  this  kind.  In  the  country  you  hear  abouthunt-  ing  accidents,  but  people  never  return  from  those.  In  the  beginning,  the  builder  and  theshark-bitten  plumber  got  along-that  was  before  the  big  bite-  then  an  assistant  plumber  took  over  and  he  made  mistakes.  The  builder  blamed  itall  on  our  original  plumber,  the  one  who  never  showedup  because  he  had  an  important  job  putting  plumb-  ing  into  a  new  hotel.  Later  on,  when  I  read  a  review  of  the  hotel,  the  only  thing  that  got  a  good  report  was  the  water  pres-  sure.  I  was  happy.  That's  our  plumber,  I  thought,  until  I  remembered  that  was  our  plumber.  Who  knew  if  he'd  return  after  the  builder  was  rude  to  him?  TRACE  thecause  of  the  obscenity  way  back  to  the  origin  of  my  acquaintance  with  the  floorman.  We  were  so  young  then  that  we  thought  we  could  have  any  old  floorman  do  the  floors  of  our  apart,  ment  in  a  hundred-year-old  building  in  [REDACTED].  When  it  came  to  choosing  the  stain,  he  had  only  three,  and  they  were  all  dark  brown.  Then  I  noticed  the  alcohol  fumes,  and  they  were  coming  from  him,  not  from  the  bucket  of  floor  stain.I  also  noticed  that  he  had  sanded  away  so  much  wood  that  the  floor  was  lower  on  one  side  of  the  room  than  on  the  other.  &quot;I  love  wood,&quot;  the  next  floorman  said  as  he  got  down  on  the  floor  and  explained  how  he'd  fix  the  butchering  of  it,  and  I  believed  he  did  love  wood,  the  way  he  crawled  around  touching  the  floor  with  real  feeling.  One  thing  he  did  wrong  was  to  ask  for  old  sheets  because  he  forgot  to  bring  drop  clothsto  keep  the  sand  dust  out  of  the  other  rooms.  But  we  hadn't  been  married  " b"78  long  enough  to  have  old  things,  so  he  went  and  took  a  new  one  from  the  linen  closet.  The  other  thing  he  did  was  to  take  a  piece  of  a  chocolate  cake  that  I  had  baked.  This  was  before  my  conversion  to  macrobiotics.  &quot;Homemade  chocolate  cake  is  my  favorite,&quot;  he'd  said.  When  I  recently  reminded  him  of  the  incident,  he  said,  &quot;Those  were  my  wild  days-my  drinking  days.  I  believed  the  refrigerator  came  with  the  job.&quot;  It  didn't  occur  to  me  at  the  time  that  he  was  drunk.  He  was  only  thirty-one,  about  eight  years  older  than  I  was.  He  had  bright-  red  hair,  as  bright  as  Victoria  Page  had  in  &quot;'The  Red  Shoes,&quot;  and  he  had  white  skin  and  freckles  that  went  with  the  hair.  But  he  was  gruff.  One  day  I  asked  him  if  he  was  related  to  a  girl  I'd  known  in  col-  lege,  a  girl  who  had  red  hair  and  the  same  last  name.  &quot;She's  my  sister,&quot;  the  floorman  said  without  any  expression.  It  turned  out  that  the  floorman  had  gone  to  a  good  college,  too.  He'd  even  graduated,  but  it  wasn't  something  he  liked  totalk  about.  He  liked  to  talk  about  wood.  He  wanted  to  tear  up  the  old  lino-  leum  in  the  kitchen  and  sand  the  floor  underneath  it.  He  said  he  bet  there  was  a  beautiful  pine  floor  under  the  lino-  leum.  The  thing  he  hadn't  counted  on  was  some  black  tarpaper  they  used  to  glue  down  thelinoleum.  That  had  to  be  torn  up  and  sanded  off,  too.  The  old  black  tarpaper  and  glue  flew  around  in  tiny  bits  and  stuck  everywhere  as  he  sanded.  There  was  always  something  he  hadn't  counted  on-something  that  got  him  really  angry-and  he  would  keep  talk-  ing  about  it  as  he  worked  on  the  floor.  For  example,  he  hadn't  counted  on  110  electrical  current.  &quot;Everything  is  two-  twenty  now!  How  old  is  this  building?  One-ten!  I  didn't  count  on  that!&quot;  he'd  mutter  as  he  stuck  a  fork  into  the  fuse  box  to  keep  the  fuse  from  blowing  when  he  plugged  in  his  machine.  I  stopped  him  from  using  an  antique  silver  fork.  We  didn't  have  any  spare  forks,  just  as  we  didn't  have  any  old  sheets,  and  that  was  how  he  worked-do  you  have  an  old  this  or  that  every  hour  or  so,  for  whatever  crisis  was  coming  up.  &quot;It  won't  hurtany-  thing,&quot;  he'd  say,  going  to  the  fuse  box  with  a  silver  fork  in  hand.  He  had  a  Dr.  Frankenstein  look  as  he  approached  the  box:  &quot;It's  just  fork  prongs  in  a  fuse.&quot;  You  had  to  keep  your  eye  on  him  all  the  time.  On  the  last  day  of  the  floorman's  first  job  for  us,  twenty  years  ago,  he  arrived  for  work  wearing  a  heavy  tweed  suit  that  ap-  peared  to  be  from  Ireland  or  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  mixture  of  beige,  green,  and  a  rust  color  that  matched  his  hair.  &quot;I'm  going  upstate  for  a  wedding  after  finishing  here.  I  don't  want  to  wrinkle  my  suit  so  I  thought  I'd  wear  it  here  and  change  over  to  my  work  clothes,  if  you  don't  mind,&quot;  he  said.  I  didn't  mind,  because  I  was  sure  the  floorman  had  nothing  up  his  sleeve  inthat  department.  Over  the  years,  workmen  have  had  things  up  their  sleeves  when  they  changed  clothes  in  our  house.  A  tile  man  changed  his  pants  in  the  dining  room  and  then  pretended  to  be  surprised  when  I  walked  by.  Before  go-  ing  through  house  renovations-tiling,  floor  work,  painting,  masonry,  carpentry,  landscaping-and  reproductive  surgery,  my  looks  were  intact  and  workmen  found  reasons  to  pull  off  their  pants  and  put  on  another  pair  infront  of  me.  TIME  passed  for  us  and  the  floor-  man.  One  day  we  called  to  ask  him  to  do  another  room.  He  came  by,  looked  around,  and  complimented  us  on  caring  for  the  floors.  I  told  him  I'd  discovered  a  floor  waxer  and  kept  him  waxing  every  year  until  the  time  I  called  and  a  woman  answered,  &quot;Jesus  loves  you.&quot;  She  didn't  even  say  hello  first.  Then,  catching  a  glimpse  of  the  hundred-  year-old  fuse  box,  the  floorman  said,  &quot;Sweet  heart,  I  can't  deal  with  that  one-ten  voltage  again.&quot;  But  it  was  O.K.  for  him  to  call  me  sweetheart,  because  he'd  taken  to  calling  my  husband  sweetheart,  too.  &quot;I  forgot  about  that.  I  would've  thought  they'd  changed  that  over  by  now!&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  fork?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  God,  did  I  do  that?  It's  all  com-  ing  back  to  me.&quot;  Thenwe  both  started  to  laugh,  but  I  knew  that  he  probably  hadn't  changed  and  would  use  cutlery  again  if  he  had  to.  &quot;I  don't  go  sticking  forks  in  fuse  boxes  anymore,  sweetheart,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  a  bit  more  professional,&quot;  he  added,  as  if  he  were  going  to  tip  his  hat  and  dance  a  jig.  After  that  he  moved  to  [REDACTED].  His  old  clients  would  call  him  from  all  over.  If  the  floor  couldn't  wait  for  him,  he'd  tell  how  to  interview  other  floormen,  to  see  whether  they  had  respect  for  wood.  Our  floorman  was  as  sought  after  as  Dr.  Loquesto,  but  he  hadn't  learned  to  man-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  3,  1996  age  his  time  the  way  the  surgeon  had,  so  he'd  sigh  and  give  long  explanations,  whereas  the  surgeon  would  just  hang  up.  T  was  when  we  bought  our  house  that  we  got  the  floorman  to  come  up  from  [REDACTED]  for  the  first  time.  And  it  was  on  that  trip  that  he  told  us  about  his  recov-  ery  from  alcoholism.  But  his  recovery  didn't  help  his  work.  Something  always  went  wrong  right  away.  This  time  he  had  to  rent  a  generator  from  a  motorcycle  dealer  on  the  highway.  I  went  with  him  in  his  van,  because  even  with  the  recovery  from  alcohol  he  didn't  have  a  credit  card.  He'd  rigged  up  a  makeshift  seatbelt  be-  cause  the  van  was  so  old  it  didn't  have  any.  As  I  was  trying  to  hook  it  up,  I  saw  an  old  apple  core  on  the  floor.  &quot;Usually  I  don't  take  the  lady  of  the  house  in  my  van  to  get  a  generator,&quot;  he  said  when  I  pointed  it  out.  After  a  while  I  got  used  to  having  the  floorman  around.  When  he  asked  for  an  old  sheet,  I  gave  him  the  one  he'd  ruined  fifteen  years  before.  &quot;I'd  never  get  that  color  on  it  now-I've  invented  my  own  line  of  tung-oil  stain,&quot;  he  said,  staring  at  the  color.  It  was  when  he  got  around  to  hand-  sanding  the  stair  treads  that  I  noticed  how  well  he  blended  in  with  the  walls  and  the  wood.His  skin  was  the  same  pale  peach  as  the  paint,  and  his  hair  was  light  red-  no  longer  as  red  as  when  he'd  done  our  first  floors.  His  hands  were  pickled  peach,  with  gold  stain  deep  in  the  cracked  skin  of  the  fingers,  and  he  was  tinted  from  head  to  toe  with  a  mixture  of  sawdust  and  orange-gold  floor  stain.  A  little  statue  of  him  would  have  looked  good  on  the  steps.  When  the  time  came  to  view  the  sam-  ples  he'd  mixed  for  the  floor,  I  chose  the  first  one.  This  thrilled  the  floorman.  &quot;You've  reached  the  highest  level  of  Zen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Because  all  it  is  is  plain  tung  oil  on  wood.  I  mixed  color  into  the  others,  but  you  chose  the  purest  one.  Sweetheart,  you  understand  wood.&quot;  After  that  job  ended,  I  was  afraid  to  see  the  floorman  again.  I  know  that  people  in  later  stages  of  life  have  been  killed  off  by  house  renovations,  and  I  was  afraid  that  the  floor  job  and  all  the  work  on  the  house  had  polished  off  the  remain-  der  of  my  youthful  appearance.  But  then  he  surprised  me  by  pass-  ing  through  our  town  on  a  social  call  with  his  new  girlfriend,  who  was  about  " b"WHO  KNOWS  WHY  forty-seven.  I  had  to  admire  him  for  choosing  someone  near  his  own  age.  Lucky  for  her  she  had  bone  structure  to  hold  up  thedisillusionment  and  misery  that  tried  to  work  on  her  face.  She  also  had  manicured  nails  with  red  nail  polish,  and  she  wore  gold  jewelry  on  her  fin-  gers  and  wrists-just  the  right  amount.  On  her  dainty  feet  she  had  velvet  ballet  slippers  to  go  with  her  black  velvet  to-  reador  pants.  How  this  lovely  lady  had  ended  up  with  the  floorman  and  his  rough,  floorlike  ways  was  something  I  wondered  the  minute  I  saw  her.  The  floorman  was  dressed  up  in  a  blue  striped  shirt,  a  navy-blue  blazer,  gray  flan-  nel  slacks,  and  even  those  black  loafers  with  tassels.  Maybe  the  shoes  were  her  influence.  We  sat  down  for  a  drink  as  if  we  were  four  normal  people.  Our  beverages  were  alcohol-free.  I  was  looking  at  those  painted  nails  and  the  small  tinkling  charm  bracelet  and  wondering  whether  I  should  try  out  such  a  look.  I  remembered  reading  that  nail  polish  prevents  the  nails  from  breathing.  The  floorman  wasn't  in  his  floor  mode,  but  we  finally  persuaded  him  to  get  up  from  the  couch  and  go  look  at  abig  black  streak  on  the  kitchen  floor.  In  his  dark  dress-up  clothes  he  no  longer  went  with  the  colors  of  the  room,  and  when  he  left  it  was  a  relief.  &quot;What  could  have  eaten  through  the  finish?&quot;  he  asked  a  few  times  when  he  re-  turned.  Then  he  said,  &quot;The  entirefloor  has  to  be  redone.&quot;  He'd  have  to  put  the  job  together  with  some  other  jobs  in  the  vicinity.  He  was  always  putting  together  a  few  jobs  in  one  area,  but  usually  none  of  them  materialized.  YEAR  went  by.  I  looked  at  the  streak  every  day,  but  the  new  rooms  were  in  progress  and  I  had  an  idea.  The  idea  was  to  builda  little  potting  area  in  one  of  the  rooms.  This  had  been  on  my  mind  since  I  watched  Myrna  Loy  describe  a  little  flower  room  she  wanted  in  the  movie  &quot;Mr.  Blandings  Builds  His  Dream  House.&quot;  I  like  to  watch  this  movie  over  and  over  because  it's  so  unrealistic.  Unlike  Mrs.  Blandings,  I  didn't  tell  the  builder  that  I  wanted  a  nice  dry  stone  floor  &quot;where  it  might  be  wet  with  flowers  and  things.&quot;  All  I  said  was  &quot;Maybe  we  should  have  this  part  of  the  floor  done  in  concrete  or  something  so  I  can  get  potting  soil  and  water  spilled  on  it.&quot;  If  only  I  hadn't  said  that  and  the  whole  floor  had  been  done  in  wood.  To  tell  the  truth,  when  I  was  standing  there  with  my  hus-  band  and  the  builder,  I  did  say,  &quot;What  about  a  drain?&quot;  But  I  was  quickly  shout,  ed  down:  &quot;Pipes  under  the  floor  ...  dollars  ...  plumbers  crawl  underneath  ...  attach  to  ...  tear  out  .  ..  put  in  new  ...&quot;  Then  I  said,  &quot;What  about  Mrs.  Bland-  ings  little  flower  sink?&quot;  &quot;Prices  were  lower  in  1948,&quot;  my  husband  said  really  fast.  While  the  builder  started  to  tell  how  much  every  single  thing  he  knew  about  had  cost  in  the  forties  compared  with  now,  I  wan-  dered  off.  My  husband  stayed  and  lis-  tened  to  the  old  pricesfor  nails.  Eventually,  it  got  to  be  the  time  for  the  floorman  to  return.  The  floors  of  the  new  rooms  plus  the  kitchen  floor  added  up  to  a  job  worth  his  travelling  time.  HE  aroma  of  tung  oil  and  sawdust  makes  it  seem  that  something  good  is  happening,  but  I  was  dreading  the  mo-  ment  the  floorman  would  start  working  in  the  kitchen.  He'd  be  underfoot  again  with  all  his  electrical  problems,  which  I  knew  would  crop  up.  &quot;It's  a  good  thing  you  left  half  the  floor  concrete,&quot;  he  said  after  he'd  piled  the  ap-  pliances  onto  it,  &quot;becauseotherwise  all  this  would  be  sitting  out  in  the  rain.&quot;  Then  he  laughed.  &quot;But  now  I  have  to  find  the  right  blue-  green  to  paint  it,&quot;  I  said.  T9  He  was  bent  over,  hand-sanding  a  corner,  and  he  couldn't  hear  because  he'd  put  cotton  in  his  ears  to  block  out  the  noise  of  the  machine.  &quot;Maybe  I  should  give  up  and  try  spatter  paint,&quot;  I  said  as  he  unstuffed  his  ears.  &quot;Spatter  paint's  for  idiots,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'll  see-we'll  go  to  the  paint  store,  we'll  pickout  the  right  green.&quot;  But  since  I'd  been  trained  by  awater-  color  landscape  painter  to  mix  peach-  tintedoff-whites,  I  thought  I  could  find  the  right  color  on  my  own.  I  was  filled  with  hope  as  I  entered  the  paint  store.  If  not  hope,  then  optimism,  or  just  stupid-  ity.  I  walked  through  the  doorway  and  caught  a  glimpse  ofhundredsof  paint  chips.  When  the  owner  saw  me  he  began  to  sing  &quot;Earth  Angel.&quot;  This  had  been  his  custom  ever  since  the  time  we  tried  to  get  the  color  of  moss  growing  on  earth.  After  1  explained  my  project,  he  gave  me  the  bad  news:  in  order  to  painta  floor,  you  had  to  use  floor  paint.  &quot;Sorry  to  dis-  appoint  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Only  two  greens.  Of  course,  we  can  fiddle  around  with  the  formula.&quot;  I  remembered  watching  with  ad-  miration  the  way  Ralph  Lauren  had  the  window  frames  of  the  Rhinelander  Man-  sion  painted  three  times  until  they  got  the  right  color.  I  wanted  to  write  a  letter  of  approval,  but  I  knew  that  Ralph  Lauren  wouldn't  care  what  I  thoughtof  his  paint  choices.  My  published  photographs  dem-   " b"cnstrating  how  to  remove  the  polo  player  from  various  garments  hadhad  no  impact  on  the  man  or  his  business.  I  have  toface  it-compared  with  Ralph  Lauren,  I'm  no  one.  Calvin  Klein,  too.  Although  I  did  re-  cently  see  Mr.  Klein  walk  into  a  florist's  shop  in  East  Hampton  and  ask  for  branches.  &quot;Do  you  have  any  branches?&quot;  I  heard  a  voice  say  in  a  New  York  accent,  and  turned  to  see  a  man  in  shorts  and  a  T-shirt  with  a  sweater  tied  around  his  waist.  The  florist  said  no,  and  the  de-  signer  left.  Had  she  known  the  man's  identity,  surely  some  branches  would  have  been  cut  down  immediately.  AYS  passed.  I  went  back  and  forth  with  the  sample  quarts  of  paint.  The  floorman  was  readying  himself  to  come  into  the  house  to  work  on  the  kitchen  floor.I  was  worried.  I  saw  him  preparing  to  move  everything  out  of  the  kitchen  into  the  dining  room.  He  told  me  his  plan:  an  orderly  progression  of  chairs,  tables,  and  kitchen  equipment  placed  in  a  way  that  would  allow  us  to  get  to  the  stove  and  the  refrigerator.  I'd  be  ableto  boil  water  for  twig  tea.  On  the  last  day,  he'd  move  the  refrigerator  out.  And  I  believed  him.  Never  could  I  have  imagined  a  room  piled  with  tables,  chairs,  desks,  teakettles,  boxes  of  tea,  gold  coffee  filters,  crusts  of  toast,  fruit,  steel  wool,  tung  oil,  paint  sam-  ples  on  shirt  cardboards,  floor-sanding  machines,  floorman's  work  clothes,  stained  work  boots,  and  dress-up  mocca-  sins-all  in  the  same  spot.  T  was  a  bleak  November  day  when  the  floorman  and  I  finally  set  off  in  sepa-  rate  vehiclesfor  the  paint  store.  &quot;T'll  make  my  own  color  if  I  have  to,&quot;  he  said  when  we  got  there.  &quot;I  know  how  to  make  green,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  start  with  red,&quot;  he  continued.  This  was  news  to  me.  It  was  frightening  news.  &quot;Stop  adding  blue  and  green.  If  blue  and  yellow  make  green,  and  red  and  yel-  low  make  orange,  you  add  the  orange  by  starting  with  red,&quot;  he  said.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  3,  1996  &quot;Why  are  we  adding  orange?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Youwant  to  warm  it  up,  rather  than  cool  it  down,  you  said-didn't  you  say  that?&quot;  The  floorman  was  get-  ting  a  tone  in  his  voice  that  Dr.  Lo-  questo  has  right  before  a  tantrum.  A  patient  once  told  me,  &quot;He  flew  intoa  rage  and  knocked  over  the  Betadine  and  the  lamp.  Then  he  stormed  out.&quot;  I  pictured  the  orange  color  of  the  Beta-  dine.  That  would  be  right  for  warming  up  the  green.  But  I  knew  the  floorman  wasn't  in  the  mood  for  any  medical  anecdotes  so  I  just  said,  &quot;Oh.&quot;  Knowing  when  to  say  nothing  is  important.  And  I  haven't  learned  that.  Although  I  feel  ready  to  take  a  vow  of  silence  and  enter  a  monastery.  Most  likely,  women  are  banned  from  be-  ing  monks.  I  pictured  the  monkery  with  all  that  peace  and  silence,  and  monks  walking  slowly  through  the  greenery.  Who  land-  scaped  for  the  lucky  monks?  If  a  landscape  worker  planted  a  viburnum  right  against  a  holly  and  smashed  a  little  quince  in  be-  tween,  and  ran  off,  what  would  the  monks  say?  How  couldthey  keep  their  vows  of  silence  then?  Maybe  monks  planted  their  own  shrubs.  That  had  to  be  part  of  a  life  of  peace  and  meditation.  I  watched  the  floorman  go  over  to  a  bunch  of  crazy-looking  colors.  His  hair  was  hardly  red  anymore.  It  was  faded,  with  some  white  mixed  in,  and  he  was  stooped  and  bent  like  a  man  who's  been  around  a  lot  of  trouble  for  a  long  time.  I'd  heard  parts  of  the  business  calls  he  had  to  make  each  day  to  arrange  his  next  jobs,  his  tung-oil  stain  company  affairs,  and  also  his  sympathy  calls  to  his  clients  who  were  undergoinghouse  restorations:  &quot;It's  hell  .  .  .  sweetheart,  you  don't  have  to  tell  me  .  .  .  deadly  ...  the  lowest  creatures  on  earth  ...&quot;  And  now  he'd  put  it  all  aside  to  help  me  find  the  right  green.  But  I'd  spent  the  morning  trying  to  find  my  boxes  of  twig  tea  amid  the  jumble  of  floor  supplies  he'd  left  a  floor-sanding  machine  in  front  of  the  table  and  I'd  been  squeezing  in  be-  tween  them  for  two  days.  &quot;How  can  you  live  this  way?&quot;  I  asked  him  now  and  then.  &quot;What  should  I  do-drink  a  quart  of  tung  oil?  I'm  probably  immune  to  the  po-  lymerized  resins  by  now  and  it  wouldn't  even  kill  me.&quot;  We  came  up  with  a  simple  formula  to  add  to  the  base.  But  the  accommodating,  song-singing  owner  wasn't  behind  the  counter  that  day.  A  serious-looking  woman  I'd  never  seen  was  there  this  time.  And  when  we  told  herour  request,  she  " b" said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  just  pick  a  color  from  the  chart?&quot;  I  heard  the  floorman  sigh.  I  explained,  &quot;We've  tried  that.  We  need  to  do  it  this  way.&quot;  I  said  that  the  owner  did  it  all  the  time.  &quot;You  can't  add  color  to  floor  paint  or  it  gets  too  soft,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  won'tbe  responsible  if  it  wears  off.&quot;  I  explained  that  it  was  a  tiny  piece  of  floor  in  a  potting  area-they  wouldn't  be  held  responsible  even  if  it  wore  off  in  one  day.  &quot;It's  not  even  a  wood  floor,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  cement.&quot;  &quot;Concrete,  it's  just  concrete.  Here,  let  me  see  the  formula  book,&quot;  the  floorman  said  in  his  gruff  voice.  &quot;I'm  telling  you  right  now,  we  won't  be  responsible,  I  don't  care  who  mixed  what  for  you  when,&quot;  the  clerk  said.  &quot;What  color  do  you  want?  They  make  enough  colors  that  anyone  should  find  one  with-  out  making  up  formulas.  That's  the  job  of  the  paint  company.  You  think  you  can  do  better  than  Benjamin  Moore?&quot;  I  knew  I  could  do  better  than  Benja-  min  Moore.  Who  was  Benjamin  Moore,  anyway?  Was  he  an  actual  person,  like  Colonel  Sanders,  Orville  Redenbacher,  or  Tom  Carvel?  I'd  always  pictured  him  as  Thomas  Jefferson.  I  said  to  the  floorman,  &quot;Oh,  never  mind.  Let's  go.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  go  on.  I  want  to  look  at  what  kinds  of  junk  they  sell  as  sealants.&quot;  He  said  thisquietly,  justto  me.  Actually,  there  was  no  one  in  the  large  paint-can-filled  room  but  the  three  of  us.  &quot;Have  you  looked  at  the  floor  paints?&quot;  the  clerk  asked.  &quot;O.K.,  I'm  leaving,&quot;  I  said  to  no  one,  just  a  general  sentence  into  the  air.  When  I  reached  the  end  of  the  aisle  near  the  door,  I  heard  the  clerk  say,  &quot;How  rude!&quot;  And  since  my  hand  was  almost  on  the  door  handle,  about  topull  it  toward  me  as  I  had  so  many  times  before-those  times  filled  with  hope  and  anticipation  of  seeing  the  right  green,  but  this  time  empty-handed  into  the  damp  gray  afternoon,  back  to  the  mad  tableaux  the  floorman  had  created  in  our  house-  I  felt  a  need  to  say  something.  And  then  I  heard  the  words&quot;F  you&quot;  as  I  went  through  the  door.  The  words  came  right  from  where  I  was  standing.  I  couldn't  believe  it.  But  I  was  so  far  from  the  counter  that  they  might  not  have  heard.  On  the  other  hand,  the  store  was  empty.  Their  AM  radio  music  wasn't  on  the  way  it  is  when  wild-looking     guys  are  in  back,  manning  the  counter.  Maybe  it  sounded  like  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  If  reprimanded-or  arrested,  even-for  saying  the  words,  I  could  explain,  &quot;I  said  'Thank  you.'  She  misunderstood.&quot;  Sure,  that  might  work.  Because  once  I  heard  my  husband  say  &quot;Thank  you&quot;  to  a  toll-booth  attendant  and  it  sounded  just  like  the  other  phrase.  What  defense  could  I  use?  I  didn't  have  Tourette's  syndrome.  People  with  that  affliction  can't  help  what  they're  saying.  Different  defenses  flipped  through  my  mind:  &quot;Temporary  insanity.&quot;  &quot;An  un-  controllable  urge.&quot;  &quot;Crime  of  passion.&quot;  By  the  time  I  got  home,  I  was  deep  into  remorse.  When  the  floorman  came  in  I  pretended  that  nothing  had  hap-  pened.  But  he  started  saying  how  great  it  was:  &quot;More  peopleshould  do  it,&quot;  and  &quot;You'll  get  some  respect  now.&quot;  I  men-  tioned  something  about  Jacqueline  Ken-  nedy,  although  I  felt  unfit  even  to  say  her  name.  When  he  finished  work  he  sug-  gested  we  go  out  for  some  dinner,  but  I  said  I  wasn't  hungry.  I  figured  I'd  never  be  hungry  again.  It  would  go  with  the  life  of  silence  and  abstinence  I  was  planning.  That  night  I  tried  lying  on  the  couch  and  watching  CNN  for  a  few  hours.  But  I  noticed  that  the  floorman  had  left  his  sanding  machine  in  the  living  room.  I  got  up  and  opened  the  door  to  the  screen  porch.  I  didn't  know  whether  being  ex-  posed  to  the  elements  might  harm  the  machine.  Rain  wasn't  predicted.  Not  enough  to  blow  in  through  the  screens,  anyway.  I  grabbed  the  handles  and  started  to  wheel  the  machine  out  the  door.  It  was  even  heavier  than  I'd  suspected.  That  must  have  been  how  the  floorman  got  his  stooped-over  look.  In  order  to  fall  asleep,  I  drank  some  tincture  of  valerian  root  and  tried  to  do  a  breathing-relaxation  exercise  I'd  read  about  in  the  book  &quot;Natural  Health,  Nat-  ural  Medicine.&quot;  Then  I  looked  through  an  antique  landscaping  book  andsaw  a  photograph  captioned  &quot;An  Incorrect  Base  Planting:  A  popular  practice  has  been  the  use  of  a  miscellaneous  assort-  ment  of  evergreens  in  beds  close  to  the  81  house.&quot;  The  sight  of  the  hideously  incor-  rect  planting  quickly  undid  the  relaxation.  WHEN  the  kitchen  floor  dried  the  next  day,  all  that  remained  to  be  donewas  to  get  the  furniture  and  the  refrigerator  moved  back  in.  The  floorman  had  arranged  for  the  builder  to  come  around  and  give  him  a  hand  with  that.  I  was  upstairs  at  the  time.  What  was  I  do-  ing  that  was  so  important  that  I  couldn't  have  supervised  this  final  moment?  &quot;Why  doesn't  the  refrigerator  have  wheels?&quot;  he'd  asked  when  they  moved  it  out  of  the  kitchen.  &quot;Because  the  model  with  wheels  had  a  brown  plastic  drawer  with  the  words  Meat  and  Snacks'  on  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Hell,  we  could  have  sanded  that  off!&quot;  the  floorman  said.  &quot;You  painted  out  Giorgio  Armani's  name  on  the  sidepiece  ofyour  sunglass  frames.&quot;  When  I  came  downstairs  to  look  at  the  floor-it  was  a  beautiful  golden  red,  with  everything  back  in  place-I  noticed  some-  thing  in  front  of  the  refrigerator.  A  kind  of  long  scrape.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  I  guess  we  did  that  when  we  moved  your  no-wheels  refrigerator,&quot;  the  floorman  said.  &quot;It's  good-it  gives  the  floor  some  character.&quot;  I  looked  at  it  closely.  It  was  more  like  a  long  gouge  mark  he'd  filled  in  with  some  special  concoction-tung  oil  and  stain-colored  filler,  maybe.  &quot;Who  helped  you  move  this?&quot;  I  asked,  looking  at  the  appliance.  &quot;Your  builder  obliged  when  he  came  by  this  morning  to  geta  check  from  the  man  of  the  house.&quot;  I  triedto  imagine  the  scene  and  what  they  said  when  they  saw  what  they  had  done.  I  kept  looking  down  at  the  floor  be-  cause  I  was  afraid  to  look  at  the  floor-  man's  face.  I  didn't  want  tosee  the  sad-  ness  and  regret.  At  least  the  scrape  wasn't  black,  or  as  bad  as  the  old  one.  But  I  was  wondering  why  a  man  would  travel  up  across  all  those  states  with  all  that  equipment  in  his  van-how  he  could  love  wood,  and  know  so  much  about  floors  and  about  mixing  colors-and  re-sand  a  whole  floor  to  re-  move  a  scrape,  and  then  move  a  refrigera-  tor  and  put  a  brand-new  scrape  back  in.  &quot;It  gives  the  look  of  an  antique,  a  cer-  tain  quality  of  age  and  richness-don't  you  think?  Sweetheart,  it  adds  beauty  to  the  wood,  don't  you  agree?&quot;  I  thought  about  it  for  a  few  seconds.  The  answer  was  no.  But  I  didn't  say  any-  thing.  I  didn't  say  a  word.  \xc2\xa2  "