EO  is  home  from  school,  my  mother  tells  me,  and  waits  for  me  to  say  something,  but  I  keep  watching  the  TV.  Only  when  she  goes  to  bed  do  I  put  on  my  jacket  and  swing  through  the  neighborhood  to  see.  Teo's  a  parto  now,  but  two  years  ago  we  were  friends.  He  used  to  walk  into  the  apart,  ment  without  knocking,  his  heavy  voice  rousing  my  mother  from  the  Spanish  of  her  room,  drawing  me  up  from  the  basement,  a  voice  that  crack-  led  and  made  you  think  of  uncles  or  grandfathers.  We  were  raging  then,  crazy  the  way  we  stole,  broke  windows,  pissed  on  people's  stairs  and  then  challenged  them  to  come  out  and  stop  us.  Teo  hated  everything  about  our  neighbor-  hood:  the  break-apart  buildings,  the  little  strips  of  grass,  the  piles  of  garbage  around  the  cans  and  the  dump-espe-  cially  the  dump.  He  was  leaving  for  college  at  the  end  of  the  summer  and  was  deliri-  ous  from  the  thought  of  it.  I  don't  know  how  you  can  do  it,  he  said  to  me.  You  should  find  a  job  somewhere  and  go.  Yeah,  I  said.  I  wasn't  like  him.  I  had  another  year  in  high  school,  no  prom-  ises  elsewhere.  Days  we  spent  in  the  mall  or  out  in  the  parking  lot  playing  stickball,  but  nights  were  what  we  waited  for:  the  heat  in  the  apartments;  families  ar-  ranged  on  their  porches,  the  glow  from  their  TVs  washing  blue  against  the  brick;  the  smell  of  the  pear  trees  that  had  been  planted  years  ago,  four  to  a  court,  probably  tosave  us  all  from  as-  phyxiation.  Nothing  moved  fast,  even  daylight  was  slow  to  fade,  but  as  soon  as  night  settled  Teo  and  I  headed  down  to  the  community  center  and  jumped  the  fence  into  the  pool.  We  were  never  alone,  every  kid  with  legs  was  there.  We  lunged  from  the  boards  and  swam     FICTION  DROWN  BY  JUNOT  DiAZ  out  to  the  deep  end,  wrestling  and  farting  around.  At  midnight  the  abuelas,  with  their  hair  swirled  around  spiky  rollers,  shouted  at  us  from  their  apartment  windows:  Simuergiienzas!  Go  home!  I  pass  his  apartment  but  the  win-  dows  are  dark;  I  put  my  ear  to  the  busted-up  door  and  hear  only  the  fa-  miliar  hum  of  the  air-conditioner.  I  haven't  yet  decided  if  I'll  talk  to  him.  I  can  go  back  home  to  my  dinner  and  two  years  will  become  three.  Even  from  four  blocks  off,  I  can  hear  the  racket  from  the  pool-radios,  too-and  wonder  if  we  were  ever  that  loud.  Little  has  changed,  not  the  stink  of  chlorine,  not  the  bottles  exploding  against  the  lifeguard  station.  I  hook  my  fingers  through  the  plastic-coated  hur-  ricane  fence.  Something  tells  me  that  he  will  be  here;  I  hop  the  fence,  feel-  ing  stupid  when  I  sprawl  on  the  dan-  delions  and  the  grass.  [REDACTED]  one,  somebody  calls  out.  Fuck  me,  I  say.  I'mnot  the  oldest  motherfucker  in  the  place,  but  it's  close.  I  take  off  my  shirt  and  my  shoes  and  then  knife  in  the  water.  Many  of  the  kids  here  are  younger  brothers  of  the  people  I  used  to  go  to  school  with.  Two  of  them  wade  past,  black  and  Latino,  and  they  pause  when  they  see  me,  recognizing  the  guy  who  deals  them  their  shitty  dope.  The  crack-  heads  have  their  own  man,  Lucero,  and  some  other  guy  who  drivesin  from  Paterson,the  only  full-time  commuter  in  the  area.  The  water  feels  good.  Starting  at  the  deep  end,  I  glide  over  the  slick-  tiled  bottom  without  kicking  up  a  spume  or  making  a  splash.  Sometimes  another  swimmer  churns  past  me,  more  a  disturbance  of  water  than  a  body.  I  can  still  go  far  without  com-  ing  up.  While  everything  above  is  loud  and  bright,  everything  below  is  whis-  pers.  And  always  the  risk  of  coming  up  tofind  the  cops  stabbing  their  searchlights  out  across  the  water.  And  then  everybody  running,  wet  feet  slapping  against  the  concrete,  yell-  ing,  Fuck  you,  officers,  you  putos  suctos,  fuck  you!  When  I'm  tired  I  wade  through  the  shallow  end,  past  some  kid  who's  kiss-  ing  hisgirlfriend,  watching  me  as  though  I'm  going  to  try  to  cut  in,  and  I  sit  near  the  pool  sign:  &quot;No  Horseplay,  No  Running,  No  Defecating,  No  Uri-  nating,  No  Expectorating.&quot;  At  the  bottom  someone  has  scrawled  &quot;No  Whites,  No  Fat  Chiks,&quot;  and  someone  a_\xc2\xbb  else  has  provided  the  missing  &quot;c&quot;  in  &quot;Chicks.&quot;  I  laugh.  Teo  hadn't  known  what  expectorating  meant,  even  though  he  was  the  one  leaving  for  college.  I  told  him,  spitting  a  greener  by  the  side  of  the  pool.  Shit,  he  said.  Where  did  you  learn  that?  I  shrugged.  Tell  me.  He  hated  when  I  knew  something  he  didn't.  He  put  his  hands  on  my  shoulders  and  pushed  me  un-  der.  He  was  wearing  a  cross  and  cut-  offs.  He  was  stronger  than  me  and  held  me  down  until  water  flooded  my  nose  and  throat.  Even  then  I  didn't  tell  him;  he  thought  I  didn't  read,  not  even  dictionaries.  WE  live  alone.  My  mother  has  enough  for  the  rent  and  gro-  ceries  and  I  cover  the  phone  bill,  some-  times  the  cable.  She's  so  quiet  that  most  of  the  time  I'm  startled  to  find  her  in  the  apartment.  I'll  enter  a  room  and  she'll  stir,  detaching  herself  from  the  cracking  plaster  walls,  from  the  stained  cabinets,  and  frightwill  pass  through  me  like  a  wire.  She's  discov-  ered  the  secret  to  silence:  pouring  cafe  without  a  splash,  walking  between  rooms  on  a  cushion  of  felt,  crying  with-  out  a  sound.  You  have  travelled  to  43616e616461and  learned  many  secret  things,  I've  told  her.  You're  like  a  shadow  warrior.  And  you're  like  a  crazy,  she  says.  Like  a  big  crazy.  When  I  come  in  she's  still  awake,  her  hands  picking  clots  of  lint  from  her  FILIP  PAGOWSKI  " b"pants.  I  put  a  towel  down  on  the  sofa  and  we  watch  television  together.  We  settle  on  the  Spanish-language  news:  drama  for  her,  violence  for  me.  Today  a  child  survived  aseven-story  fall,  bust-  ing  nothingbut  his  diaper.  The  hysteri-  cal  babysitter,  all  three  hundred  pounds  of  her,  is  head-butting  the  microphone.  It's  a  goddam  miraclevilla,  she  cries.  My  mother  asks  me  if  I  found  Teo.  I  tell  her  that  I  didn't  look.  That's  too  bad.  He  was  telling  me  that  he  might  be  starting  at  a  school  for  business.  So  what?  She's  never  understood  whywe  don't  speak  anymore.  I've  tried  to  ex-  plain,  all  wise-like,  that  everything  changes,  but  she  thinks  thatthat  sort  of  saying  is  only  around  so  you  can  prove  it  wrong.  He  asked  me  what  you  were  doing.  What  did  you  say?  I  told  him  you  were  fine.  You  should  have  told  him  I  moved.  And  what  if  he  ran  into  you?  I'mnot  allowed  to  visit  my  mother?  She  notices  the  tightening  of  my  arms.  You  should  be  more  like  me  and  your  father.  Can't  you  see  I'm  watching  televi-  sion?  I  ask  her.  I  was  angry  at  him,  wasn't  I?  But  now  we  can  talk  to  each  other.  Am  I  watching  television  here  or  what?  SATURDAY  she  asks  me  to  take  her  to  the  mall.  As  a  son  IfeelI  owe  her  that  much,  even  though  neither  of  us  has  a  car  and  we  have  to  walk  two  miles  through  redneck  territory  to  catch  the  M15.  Before  we  head  out,  she  drags  me  through  the  apartment  to  make  sure  the  windows  are  locked.  She  can't  reach  the  latches  so  she  has  me  test  them.  With  the  air-conditioning  on,  we  never  open  our  windows,  but  I  go  through  the  routine  anyway.  Putting  my  hand  on  the  latch  is  not  enough-she  wants  to  hear  it  rattle.  This  place  just  isn't  safe,  she  tells  me.  Lorena  got  lazy  and  look  what  they  did  toher.  They  punched  her  and  kept  herlocked  up  in  her  own  house.  Those  morenos  ate  all  her  food  and  even  made  phone  calls.  Phone  calls!  That's  why  we  don't  have  long-  distance,  I  tell  her,  but  sheshakes  her  head.  That's  not  funny,  she  says.  She  doesn't  go  out  much,  so  when  she  does  it's  a  big  deal.  She  dresses  up,  even  puts  on  makeup.  Which  is  why  I  don't  give  her  lip  about  taking  her  to  the  mall  even  though  I  usually  make  a  fortune  on  Saturdays,  selling  to  those  kids  driving  down  to  Belmar  or  out  to  Spruce  Run.  I  recognize  about  half  the  kids  on  the  bus.  I  keep  my  head  buried  in  my  cap,  praying  that  nobody  tries  to  score.  She  watches  the  traffic,  her  hands  somewhere  inside  her  purse,  doesn't  say  a  word.  When  we  arrive  at  the  mall,  I  give  her  fifty  dollars.  Buy  something,  I  say,  hating  the  image  I  have  of  her,  pick-  ing  through  the  sale  bins,  wrinkling  ev-  erything.  My  father  used  to  give  her  a  hundred  dollars  at  the  end  of  each  summer  for  my  new  clothes,  and  she  would  take  nearly  a  week  to  spend  it,  buying  a  couple  of  T-shirts  and  two  pairs  of  jeans.  She  folds  the  bills  into  a  square.  I'll  see  you  at  three,  she  says.  I  wander  through  the  stores,  staying  in  sight  of  the  cashiers  so  they  won't  have  reason  to  follow  me.  The  circuit  I  make  has  not  changed  since  my  loot-  ing  days.  Bookstore,  record  store,  comic-book  shop,  Macy's.  Teo  and  I  used  to  steal  like  mad  from  these  places,  two,  three  hundred  dollars  of  gear  in  a  day.  Our  system  was  simple-  we  walked  into  a  store  with  a  shopping  bag  and  came  out  loaded.  Back  then  security  wasn't  tight.  The  only  trick  was  in  the  exit.  We  stopped  right  at  the  en-  trance  of  the  shop  and  checked  out  some  worthless  piece  of  junk  to  keep  the  store  people  from  getting  suspi-  cious.  What  do  you  think?  we  asked  each  other.  Would  she  like  it?  Both  of  us  had  seen  bad  shoplifters  at  work.  All  grab  and  run,  nothing  smooth  about  them.  Not  us.  We  idled  out  of  the  stores  slow,  like  a  fat  seventies  car.  But  Teo  was  the  best.  He  even  talked  to  mall  security,  asked  them  for  directions,  his  bag  all  loaded  up,  and  me,  stand-  ing  ten  feet  away,  shitting  my  pants.  When  he  finished  he  smiled,  swinging  his  shopping  bag  up  to  hit  me.  You  got  to  stop  that  messing  around,  I  told  him.  I'm  not  going  to  jail  for  bullshit  likethat.  You  don't  go  to  jail  for  shoplift-  ing.  They  just  turn  you  over  to  your  old  man.  T9  I  don't  know  about  you,  but  my  pops  hits  like  a  motherfucker.  He  laughed.  You  know  my  dad.  He  flexed  his  fingers.  The  nigger's  got  arthritis.  My  mother  never  suspected  but  my  father  wasn't  that  easy.  He  knew  what  things  cost  and  knew  that  I  didn't  have  a  regular  job.  You're  going  to  get  caught,  he  told  me  one  day.  Just  you  wait.  When  you  do,  I'll  show  them  everything  you've  taken  and  then  they'll  throw  your  stu-  pid  ass  away  like  a  bad  piece  of  meat.  He  was  a  charmer,  my  pops,  a  real  asshole,  but  he  was  right.  Nobody  can  stay  smooth  forever,  especially  kids  like  us.  One  day  at  the  bookstore,  we  didn't  even  hide  the  drops.  Four  issues  of  the  same  P/ayboy  for  kicks,  enough  audio  books  to  start  our  own  library.  The  lady  who  stepped  infront  of  us  didn't  look  old,  even  with  her  white  hair.  Her  silk  shirt  was  half  unbuttoned  and  a  silver  horn  necklace  sat  on  the  freckled  top  of  her  chest.  I'm  sorry,  fellows,  but  I  have  to  check  your  bag,  she  said.  I  kept  moving  and  looked  back  all  annoyed,  like  she  was  asking  us  for  a  quarter,  or  something.  Teo  got  polite  and  stopped.  No  problem,  he  said,  slamming  the  heavy  bag  into  her  face.  She  fell  with  a  squawk,  her  hands  slapping  the  tiles.  There  you  go,  Teo  said.  Security  found  us  across  from  the  bus  stop,  under  a  Jeep  Cherokee.  A  bus  had  come  and  gone,  both  of  ustoo  scared  to  take  it.  A  rent-a-cop  tapped  his  nightstick  against  the  fender  and  said,  You  little  shits  better  come  out  here  real  slow.  I  started  to  cry.  Teo  didn't  say  a  word,  his  face  stretched  out  and  gray,  his  hand  squeezing  mine,  the  bones  in  our  fingers  pressing  together.  IGHTS  I  drink  with  Alex  and  Danny,  and  other  friends  who  remain.  The  Malibou  Bar  is  no  good,  just  us  washouts  and  the  swcias  we  can  con  into  joining  us.  We  drink  too  much,  roar  at  each  other,  and  make  the  skinny  bartender  move  closer  to  the  phone.  On  the  wall  hangs  a  cork  dart,  board,  and  a  Brunswick  Gold  Crown  blocks  the  bathroom,  its  bumpers  squashed,  the  felt  pulled  like  old  skin.  When  the  bar  begins  to  shake  back  and  forth  like  a  rumba,  Icall  it  a  night  and  go  home,  through  the  fields  that  " b"82  surround  the  apartments.  In  the  dis-  tance  you  can  see  the  Raritan,  as  shiny  as  an  earthworm,  the  same  river  my  homeboy  goes  to  school  on.  The  dump  has  long  since  shut  down,  and  grass  has  spreadover  it  like  a  sickly  fuzz,  and  from  where  I  stand,  my  right  hand  di-  recting  a  colorless  stream  of  piss  down-  ward,  the  landfill  might  be  the  top  of  a  blond  head,  square  and  old.  In  the  mornings  I  run.  My  mother  is  already  up,  dressed  for  her  house-  cleaning  job.  She  says  nothing  to  me,  would  rather  point  to  the  she  has  prepared  than  speak.  I  run  three  miles  easily,  could  have  pushed  a  fourth  if  I  were  in  the  mood.  I  keep  an  eye  out  for  the  recruiter  who  prowls  around  our  neighborhood  in  his  dark  K-Car.  We've  spoken  before.  He  was  out  of  uniform  and  called  me  over,  jovial,  and  I  thought  I  was  help-  ing  some  white  dude  with  directions.  Would  you  mind  if  I  asked  you  a  question?  No.  Do  you  have  a  job?  Not  right  now.  Would  you  like  one?  A  real  career,  more  than  you'll  get  around  here?  I  remember  stepping  back.  Depends  on  what  it  is,  I  said.  Son,  I  know  somebody  who's  hiring.  It's  the  United  [REDACTED]  government.  Well.  Sorry,  but  I  ain't  Army  material.  That's  exactly  what  I  used  to  think,  he  said,  his  ten  piggy  fingers  buried  in  his  carpeted  steering  wheel.  But  now  I  have  a  house,  a  car,  a  gun,  and  a  wife.  Discipline.  Loyalty.  Can  you  say  that  you  have  those  things?  Even  one?  He's  a  Southerner,  red-haired,  his  drawl  so  out  of  place  that  the  people  around  here  laugh  just  hearing  him.  I  take  to  the  bushes  when  I  see  his  car  on  the  road.  These  days  my  guts  feel  loose  and  cold,  and  I  want  to  be  away  from  here.  He  won't  have  to  show  me  his  Desert  Eagle  or  flash  the  photos  of  the  skinny  Filipina  girls  sucking  dick.  He'll  only  have  to  smile  and  name  the  places,  and  I'll  listen.  When  I  reach  the  apartment,  I  lean  against  my  door,  waiting  for  my  heart  to  slow,  for  the  pain  to  lose  its  edge.  I  hear  my  mother's  voice,  a  whisper  from  the  kitchen.  She  sounds  hurt  orner-  vous,  maybe  both.  At  first  I'm  terri-  fied  that  Teo's  in  there  with  her  but  then  I  look  and  see  the  phone  cord,  swinging  lazily.  She's  talking  to  my  fa-  ther,  something  she  knows  I  disapprove  of.  He's  in  [REDACTED]  now,  asad  guy  who  calls  her  and  begs  her  for  money.  He  swears  that  if  she  moves  down  there  he'll  leave  the  woman  he's  living  with.  These  are  lies,  I've  told  her,  but  she  still  calls  to  listen  to  him.  Hiswords  coil  in-  side  her,  wrecking  her  sleep  for  days.  She  opens  the  refrigerator  door  slightly  so  that  the  whirr  of  the  compressor  masks  their  conversation.  I  walk  in  and  hang  up  the  phone.  That's  enough,  I  say.  She's  startled,  her  hand  squeezing  the  loose  folds  of  her  neck.  That  was  him,  she  says  quietly.  ON  schooldays  Teo  and  I  chilled  at  the  stop  together,  but  as  soon  as  that  bus  came  over  the  Parkridge  hill  I  got  to  thinking  about  how  I  was  fail-  ing  gym  and  screwing  up  math  and  how  I  hated  every  singleliving  teacher  on  the  planet.  I'll  see  you  in  the  [REDACTED],  I  said.  He  was  already  standing  in  line.  I  just  stood  back  and  grinned,  hands  in  my  pocket.  With  ourbus  drivers  you  didn't  have  to  hide.  Two  of  them  didn't  give  a  rat  fuck  and  the  third  one,  the  Brazilian  preacher,  was  too  busy  talk-  ing  Bible  to  notice  anything  but  the  traffic  in  front  of  him.  Being  truant  without  a  car  was  no  easy  job,  but  I  managed.  I  watched  a  lot  of  TV  and  when  it  got  boring  I  went  down  to  the  mall  or  the  Sayreville  library,  where  you  could  watch  old  documentaries  for  free.I  always  came  back  to  the  neighborhood  late,  sothat  the  buses  wouldn't  pass  me  on  Ern-  ston  and  nobody  could  yell,  Asshole!  out  the  windows.  Teo  would  usually  be  home  or  down  by  the  swings,  but  othertimes  he  wouldn't  be  around.  Out  visiting  other  neighborhoods.  He  knew  a  lot  of  folks  I  didn't-a  messed-up  black  kid  from  Madison  Park,  two  brothers  who  were  into  that  New  York  club  scene,  who  spent  money  on  plat-  form  shoes  and  leather  backpacks.  I'd  leave  a  message  with  his  parents  and  then  watch  somemore  TV.  The  next  day,  he'd  beout  at  the  bus  stop,  too  busy  smoking  a  cigarette  to  say  much  about  the  day  before.  You  need  to  learn  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  29,  1996  how  to  walk  the  world,  he  told  me.  There's  a  lot  out  there.  SOME  nights  me  and  the  boys  drive  to  New  Brunswick.  A  nice  city,  the  Raritan  so  low  and  silty  that  you  don't  have  to  be  Jesus  to  walk  over  it.  We  hit  the  Melody  and  the  Roxy,  and  stare  at  the  college  girls.  We  drink  a  lot  and  then  spin  out  onto  the  dance  floor.  None  of  the  chicas  ever  dance  with  us,  but  a  glance  or  a  touch  can  keep  us  talking  shit  for  hours.  Once  the  clubs  close,  we  go  to  the  Franklin  Diner,  gorge  ourselves  on  pancakes,  and  then,  after  we've  smoked  our  pack,  head  home.  Danny  passes  out  in  the  back  seat  and  Alex  cranks  the  window  down  to  keep  the  wind  in  his  eyes.  He's  fallen  asleep  in  the  past,  wrecked  two  cars  before  this  one.  The  streets  have  been  picked  clean  of  stu-  dents  and  townies  and  we  blow  through  every  light,  red  or  green.  At  the  Old  Bridge  Turnpike  we  pass  the  fag  bar,  which  never  seems  to  close.  Patos  all  over  the  parking  lot,  drinking  and  talking.  Sometimes  Alex  stops  by  the  side  of  the  road  and  says,  Excuse  me.  When  somebody  comes  over  from  the  bar  he  points  his  plastic  pistolat  them,  just  to  see  if  they'll  run  or  shit  their  pants.  'WICE.  That's  it.  The  first  time  was  at  the  end  of  that  summer.  We  had  just  come  back  from  the  pool  and  were  watching  a  porn  film  at  his  par-  ents'  apartment.  His  father  was  a  nut  for  these  videos,  ordering  them  from  wholesalers  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Teo  used  to  describe  how  his  pop  would  watch  them  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  not  caring  a  lick  about  his  moms,  who  spent  the  time  in  the  kitchen,  tak-  ing  hours  to  cook  a  pot  of  arroz  con  gandules.  Teo  would  sit  down  with  his  pop  and  neither  of  them  would  say  a  word,  except  to  laugh  when  somebody  caught  it  inthe  eye  or  the  face.  We  were  anhour  into  the  new  mov-  ie,  some  vaina  that  looked  like  it  had  been  filmed  in  the  apartment  next  door,  when  he  reached  into  my  shorts.  What  the  fuck  are  you  doing?  I  asked,  but  he  didn't  stop.  His  hand  was  dry.  I  kept  my  eyes  on  the  TV,  too  scared  to  watch.  I  came  right  away,  smearing  the  plastic  sofa  covers.  My  legs  started  " b"   DROWN  shaking  and  suddenly  I  wanted  out.  He  didn't  say  anything  when  I  left,  just  sat  there  watching  the  screen.  The  next  day  he  called  and  when  I  heard  his  voice  I  was  cool  but  I  wouldn't  go  to  the  mall  or  anywhere  else.  My  mother  sensed  that  something  was  wrong  and  pestered  me  about  it,  but  I  told  her  to  leave  me  the  fuck  alone,  and  my  pops,  who  was  home  on  a  visit,  stirred  himself  from  the  couch  to  slap  me  down.  Mostly  I  stayed  in  the  basement,  terrified  that  I  would  end  up  abnormal,  a  fucking  parto,  but  he  was  my  best  friend  and  back  then  that  mat-  tered  to  me  more  than  anything.  This  alone  got  me  out  of  the  apartment  and  over  to  the  pool  that  night.  He  was  al-  ready  there,  his  body  pale  and  flabby  under  the  water.  Hey,  he  said.  I  was  beginning  to  worry  about  you.  Nothing  to  worry  about,  I  said.  We  swam  and  didn't  talk  much  and  later  we  watched  a  Skytop  crew  pull  a  bikini  top  from  a  girl  stupid  enough  to  hang  out  alone.  Give  it,  she  said,  cov-  ering  herself,  but  these  kids  howled,  holding  it  up  over  her  head,  the  shiny  laces  flopping  just  out  of  reach.  When  they  began  to  pluck  at  her  arms,  she  walked  away,  leaving  them  to  try  the  top  on  over  their  flat  pecs.  He  put  his  handon  my  shoulder  and  my  pulse  was  like  a  code  under  his  palm.  Let's  go,  he  said.  Unless  you're  not  feeling  good.  I'm  fine.  Since  his  parents  worked  nights,  we  pretty  much  owned  the  place  until  six  the  next  morning.  We  sat  in  front  of  the  television,  in  our  towels,  his  hands  bracing  against  my  abdomen  and  thighs.  I'll  stop  if  you  want,  he  said,  and  I  didn't  respond.  After  I  was  done,  he  laid  his  head  in  my  lap.  I  wasn't  asleep  or  awake  but  was  caught  some-  where  in  between,  rocked  slowly  back  and  forth  the  way  surf  holds  junk  against  the  shore,  rolling  it  over  and  over.  In  three  weeks  he  was  leaving.  Nobody  can  touch  me,  he  kept  saying.  We'd  visited  the  school,  taken  his  father's  car,  and  I'd  seen  how  beautiful  the  campus  was,  with  all  the  students  drifting  from  dorm  to  class.  I  thought  of  how  in  high  school  our  teachers  loved  to  crowd  us  into  their  lounge  ev-  ery  time  a  space  shuttle  took  off  from  [REDACTED].  One  teacher,  whose  family  had  two  grammar  schools  named  after  it,  compared  us  to  the  shuttles.  A  few  of  you  are  going  to  make  it.  Those  are  the  orbiters.  But  the  majority  of  you  are  just  going  to  burn  out.  Going  nowhere.  He  dropped  his  hand  onto  his  desk.  I  could  already  see  myself  losing  altitude,  fading,  the  earth  spread  out  beneath  me,  hard  and  bright.  I  had  my  eyes  closed  and  the  televi-  sion  was  on,  and  when  the  hallway  door  crashed  open  he  jumped  up  and  I  nearly  cut  my  dick  off  struggling  with  my  shorts.  It's  just  the  neighbor,  he  said,  laughing.  He  was  laughing,  but  I  was  saying,  Fuck  this,  and  getting  my  clothes  on.  BELIEVE  I  see  him  in  his  father's  bottomed-out  Cadillac,  heading  to-  ward  the  turnpike,  but  I  can't  be  sure.  He's  probably  back  in  school  already.  I  deal  close  to  home,  trooping  up  and  down  the  same  dead-end  street  where  the  kids  drink  and  smoke.  These  punks  joke  with  me,  pat  me  down  for  taps,  sometimes  too  hard.  Now  that  strip  malls  line  Route  9,  a  lot  of  folks  have  part-time  jobs;  kids  stand  around  smoking  in  their  aprons,  nametags  dangling  heavily  from  pockets.  When  I  get  home,  my  sneakers  are  filthy,  so  I  take  an  old  toothbrush  to  their  soles,  scraping  the  mud  into  the  tub.  My  mother  has  thrownopen  the  windows  and  propped  open  the  door.  It's  cool  enough,  she  explains.  She  has  prepared  dinner-rice  and  beans,  fried  cheese,  83  tostones.  Look  what  I  bought,  she  says,  showing  me  two  blue  T-shirts.  They  were  two  for  one  so  I  got  you  one.  Try  it  on.  It  fits  tight  but  I  don't  mind.  She  cranks  up  the  television.  A  movie  dubbed  into  Spanish,  a  classic,  one  that  everyone  knows.  The  actors  throw  themselves  around,  passionate,  but  their  words  are  plain  and  deliberate.  It's  hard  to  imagine  anyone  going  through  life  this  way.  I  pull  out  a  plug  of  bills  from  my  pocket.  She  takes  it  from  me,  her  fingers  soothing  the  creases.  A  manwho  treats  his  pata  like  this  doesn't  deserve  to  spend  it,  she  says.  We  watch  the  movie  and  the  two  hours  together  makes  us  friendly.  She  puts  her  hand  on  mine.  Near  the  end  of  the  film,  just  as  our  heroes  are  about  to  fall  apart  under  a  hail  of  bullets,  she  takes  off  her  glasses  and  kneads  her  temples,  the  light  of  the  television  flick  ering  across  her  face.  She  watches  an-  other  minute,  and  then  her  chin  lists  to  her  chest.  Almost  immediately  her  eye-  lashes  begin  to  tremble.  She  is  dream-  ing,  dreaming  of  Boca  Raton,  of  stroll-  ing  under  the  jacarandas  with  my  father.  You  can't  be  anywhere  forever,  was  what  Teo  used  to  say,  what  he  said  to  me  the  day  I  went  tosee  him  off.  He  handed  me  a  gift,  a  book,  and  after  he  was  gone  I  threw  it  away,  didn't  even  bother  to  open  it  and  read  what  he'd  written.  I  let  her  sleep  until  the  end  of  the  movie  and  when  I  wake  her  she  shakes  her  head,grimacing.  You  better  check  those  windows,  she  says.  I  promise  her  I  will. "