 b"80  THREE  STORIES  WINGING  IT  -  N  this  scene  I'm  playing  now,  I'm  _  supposed  to  burst  -  into  this  shack  on  a  run-down  tobacco  plantation  and  dis-  cover  that  my  childhood  friend,  whom  I  haven't  seen  for  twenty  years,  has  hanged  himself  from  the  rafters.  The  &quot;friend&quot;  is  played  by  a  dummy,  complete  with  broken  neck,  bulging  eyeballs,  phony  blood  trickling  out  its  mouth,  and  allits  skin  turned  puffy  and  milky  white.  Anybody  can  tell  it's  a  dummy.  It  wouldn't  fool  a  house  dog.  But  I'm  sup-  posed  to  somehow  muster  up  the  belief  that  this  is  indeed  my  long-lost  buddy.  He  bears  no  resemblance  to  anyone  I've  ever  met,  dead  or  alive.  I've  seen  corpses,  but  they  never  looked  like  this  one.  The  only  dead  things  I've  seen  hanging  were  deer  and  pheasant.  I've  been  in  the  pres-  ence  of  death  several  times,  but  the  memory  of  those  dying  ones  doesn't  provoke  anything  like  the  correct  re-  sponse  to  this  situation.  Grief  is  differ-  ent  from  horror.  I  know  what  my  char-  acter's  reaction  should  be,  but  I  know  if  I  try  to  imitate  this  idea  in  my  head,  it  will  come  out  being  exactly  what  it  is-  an  imitation.  I  cast  my  fate  to  the  wind  and  try  to  just  wing  it  on  the  first  take.  No  rehearsal;  just  wing  it  and  see  what  happens.  I  burst  into  the  shack  and  discover  the  swinging  phony  corpse,  but  just  as  I  look  up  at  it  the  entire  doorof  the  shack  breaks  off  its  hinges  and  slams  me  square  in  the  head.  It's  a  rude  awakening.  As  I'm  recovering  from  the  blow,  it  occurs  to  me  that  this  might  in  fact  be  a  way  to  approach  the  moment  of  the  character's  discovery.  As  though  he's  been  hit  in  the  head  by  a  door.  Why  not?  I  haven't  come  up  with  anything  else.  On  the  second  take,  after  the  door's  been  remounted,  I  try  it  this  way.  I  wing  it.  The  director  says,  &quot;Yes,  yes!  But  it  appears  to  be  more  phys-  ical  than  psychological.  Why  is  that?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  want  'psychological'?&quot;  I  say.     FICTION  BY  SAM  SHEPARD  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  were  looking  for  that.&quot;  &quot;Well,  'psychological'  is  perhaps  the  wrong  word.  Butyou  know  what  I  mean.  Something  to  do  with  his  torment.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  O.K.  Psychological  torment.  OK.&quot;  &quot;Well,  these  are  perhaps  not  the  right  words.  I  just  wasn't  sure  what  it  was  you  were  responding  to  in  that  moment.&quot;  &quot;I  was  tryingto  play  it  as  though  he'd  just  been  hit  in  the  head  by  a  door.&quot;  &quot;Isee.  But  why?  What  has  this  got  to  do  with  the  situation?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  thought  it  might  work.  I'm  desperate  for  suggestions.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;it's  very  simple.  You  haven't  seen  your  dear  friend  for  twenty  years,  and  you  walk  in  and  discover  that  he's  hanged  himself  from  the  rafters.  That's  quite  different  from  being  hit  in  the  head  by  a  door,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  you're  right.  I  don't  know.  Yeah,  I  guess  you're  right.  I  was  just  experimenting.&quot;  &quot;Good!  That's  good!  I  love  experi-  menting.I'm  an  experimenter  myself.  Just  try  something  else.  Are  you  ready?  Are  we  ready,  everyone?  Let's  try  an-  other  one.&quot;  &quot;Ready,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Good!  Camera!Camera!  Let's  have  silence,  please!  We're  going  to  go  again!&quot;  On  the  third  take,  I  burst  into  the  shack,  the  door  stays  on  its  hinges;  I  don't  play  as  though  I've  been  hit  in  the  head  by  it;  I  stare  up  at  the  phony  corpse;  nothing  happens;  I  see  a  prop  ra-  dio  on  a  bench,  and  for  some  reason  I  stagger  over  toward  it  and  turn  it  on.  &quot;Cut!  Cut!&quot;  he  screams.  &quot;I  don't  un-  derstand  this  either.  What  is  happening  here?  Why  are  you  all  of  a  sudden  turn-  ing  the  radio  on?  I  don't  get  this.&quot;  &quot;I  have  no  idea,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;It  was  just  an  impulse.&quot;  &quot;Good!  Very  good.  I  love  impulses.  That's  the  way  I  love  to  work  myself-  instinctually.  That's  very  good.  Let's  try  again.&quot;  &quot;But  I  thought  you  said  you  didn't  understand  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't,  but  it's  very  mysterious.  It  has  a  mysterious  quality.  It  might  be  good.  It  gives  me  an  idea.  What  if  the  radio  is  already  on,  and  it's  playing  as  you  burst  in  the  door.  Then  you  see  thecorpse  and  you  cross  to  the  radio  and  turn  it  off.  Shall  we  try  it  like  that?&quot;  &quot;You  mean  turn  it  off  as  opposed  to  turning  it  07?&quot;  &quot;Exactly,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;That's  exactly  right.  You  turn  the  radio  off.&quot;  &quot;That's  the  only  thing  you  want  to  change?&quot;  &quot;That's  it.  Everything  else  is  perfect.&quot;  &quot;O.K.&quot;  On  the  fourth  take,  I  burst  in,  dis-  cover  the  corpse;  theradio  is  playing;  I  cross  over  to  it  and  just  stand  there  star-  ing  at  it.  The  camera  keeps  rolling  on  my  back.  The  radio  keeps  playing.  &quot;Cut!  Cut!  Did  we  forget  some-  thing?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Well,  you  know,  I  was  wondering-  I  was  trying  to  follow  this  new  impulse  that  came  up.&quot;  &quot;Which  one  was  that?&quot;  &quot;I  was  just  wondering  what  it  would  be  like  to  keep  listening  to  the  radio  for  a  while,  after  seeing  my  buddy  hanging  there.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  for  how  long?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;We  can't  just  keep  rolling  film  on  your  back.  It's  not  interesting.&quot;  &quot;Right.  I  see  your  point.&quot;  &quot;Let'stry  one  more,  please.  We've  al-  most  got  it.  I  feel  good  about  this.  I  think  we're  very,  very  close.&quot;  On  the  fifth  take,  I  burst  in  the  door;  discover  my  dummy  buddy;  walk  straight  to  the  playing  radio  and  snap  it  off.  &quot;Cut!  Cut!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Now  what  I  feel-what  I'm  feeling  now  is  that  it's  too  automatic.  He  just  walks  over  there  Z  and  turns  the  radio  off  as  though  noth-  ing's  happened.  There's  no  reason.  It's  lost  all  its  mystery  now.&quot;  br  5  2  o  0  &lt;  o.  E  =  " b"&quot;I  felt  that,  too,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I've  felt  that  from  the  very  start.  A  lack  of  mystery.&quot;  &quot;Well,  let's  try  one  more.  We're  very  close  now.  I  can  feel  it.&quot;  On  the  sixth  take,  I  burst  in  the  door;  discover  the  corpse;  pause  for  a  second;  cross  to  the  radio;  pause  again;  then  I  smash  the  radio  to  the  floor  with  my  fist.  I  just  coldcock  the  son  of  a  bitch.  &quot;Cut!  Cut!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;That's  perfect!  Absolutely  perfect!  That's  the  one.  Print  this  one!  It  was  perfect.&quot;  Just  because  they  say  &quot;Action!&quot;  doesn't  mean  you  have  to  do  anything.  -Marlon  Brando.  GARY  COOPER  OR  THE  LANDSCAPE  HY  don't  you  fly?I  find  that  so  fascinating.  -I  don't  know.  I  just  don't.  -You  drive  everywhere?  -Yes.  Or  take  trains.  -I  love  trains.  -Me,  too.  -I  used  to  take  them  all  the  time  when  I  was  a  child,  in  [REDACTED].  All  over  Europe.  -Yes.  They  rock  you  to  sleep.  Just  like  a  mother.  -But  say  you  have  to  be  in  Los  An-  geles  suddenly.  How  do  you  get  there?  -I  never  have  to  be  anywhere  suddenly.  -But  your  work-sometimes  you  must  have  to  work  in  [REDACTED].  -Yes.  Then  I  drive.  -Across  the  entire  country?  -Right.  -How  far  is  that?  -Its  a  long,  longway.  -It  must  be  thousands  of  miles.  -It  is.  -So  you've  done  this  many  times,  I  guess.  -Many,  many  times.  -I've  always  wanted  to  do  this!  I  must  try  it  sometime.  I've  heard  so  much  about  this  country  but  never  re-  ally  seen  it.  You  know-I  mean  other  than  New  York  and  L.A.  -You  should  try  it.  -Well,  what  do  you  do?  Is  there  a  particular  route  you  take?  -Highway  40  west.  -Is  that  the  main  highway?  -Yes.  It  replaced  theold  [REDACTED].  &quot;Grapes  of  Wrath.&quot;  Henry  Fonda.  You  know-&quot;Get  your  kicks  on  [REDACTED].&quot;  -I  see.  But  aren't  there  little  high-  ways  left  that  might  be  more  interesting?  -What  are  you  interested  in?  -I  mean,  the  main  highway  must  be  so  synthetic,  isn't  it?  -They're  all  made  out  of  asphalt.  -No,  but  I  mean  the  surrounding  areas.  The  little  communities.  -There  are  no  communities.  -But  there  must  be  some  little  towns  left.  Little  side  roads.  -They're  all  the  same.  -Aren't  there  some  that  are  more  picturesque?  More  authentic.  -They're  all  authentic.  -I  see.  Well,  where  do  you  stay  when  you're  on  the  road  like  that?  -I  sleep  in  my  truck.  -Oh,  you  have  a  truck?  -I  do.  Yes.  -I  love  trucks.  -Yeah.  Trucks  and  trains.  -I  just  love  them.  -You  should  get  a  truck.  -Oh,  no!  -Why  not?  Get  a  truck  and  drive.  -No,  no.  I'd  get  so  bored  with  my-  self,  driving  all  that  way  alone.  Don't  you  ever  get  bored?  -No.  -You  travel  all  by  yourself  and  you  never  get  bored?  -Never,  -I  don't  know  if  I  could  stand  it.  All  that  way  across  the  country.  It's  so  huge!  How  many  days  does  it  take  you?  -Five,  usually.  Depends.  Sometimes  I  stop  along  the  way.  -You  must  have  a  lot  of  girlfriends  in  different  towns.  -Not  anymore.  -Don't  you  get  lonely?  -Sometimes.  -I  would  get  so  lonely,  I  think.  -Yeah.  You  probably  shouldn't  try  it.  -Oh,  but  I  must.  I  feel  as  though  I'm  missing  out  on  something.  Since  I  was  a  little  girl  I've  dreamed  about  the  [REDACTED].  -In  [REDACTED]?  -Yes!  Oh,  yes.  I  used  to  have  visions  about  it.  -Visions.  -Vistas  would  appear.  -Where  did  you  hear  about  the  [REDACTED]  in  [REDACTED]?  -Movies.  American  movies.  We  see  81  that  great  landscape  in  our  dreams.  It  haunts  us.  -So  it's  thelandscape  that  grabs  you  more  than  the  characters?  -Yes.  That  vast  background.  -So  in  [REDACTED],  when  you're  watch-  ing  an  American  43616e616461ern  you're  all  star-  ing  at  the  background?  Is  that  it?  -I  suppose.  It's  so  evocative  to  us.  All  that  space.  [REDACTED]  is  very  close.  -So  it  doesn't  matter  who's  in  the  43616e616461ern-it  could  be  John  Wayne  or  Jerry  Lewis-because  everyone's  really  captured  by  the  landscape?  -Well,  we  love  the  actors,  too,  of  course.  -Who's  your  favorite?  -Mine,  personally?  -Yes.  Do  you  have  a  favorite?  -I  guess  I  would  have  to  say  Gary  Cooper.  -The  Coop!  -Oh,  yes.  He  personified  some-  thing,  I  think.  -What  was  that?  -Excuse  me?  -That  he  &quot;personified.&quot;  -Oh,  I  don't  know.  That  wonder-  ful  mixture  of  shyness-how  do  you  say  it?-vulnerability,  I  suppose,  and  yet  strong  at  the  same  time.  It's  very  [REDACTED]-  ern.  Women  love  that.  -They  do?  -Oh,  yes.  It's  very  attractive,  I  find.  -Why's  that?  -I  don't  know.  You're  making  me  blush.  -I  am?  -Yes.  You  know  you  are.  -You're  embarrassed?  -No.  Not  exactly.  -But  when  you  get  right  down  to  brass  tacks,  which  is  more  important-  Gary  Cooper  or  the  landscape?  -Oh,  I  would  hate  to  have  to  choose  between  them.  -Say  you  had  to.  Say  it  was  a  ques-  tion  of  life  or  death.  -I  would  have  to  say  the  landscape.  -There  you  go.  -But  I  love  them  both.  COLORADO  IS  NOT  A  COWARD  WE\xe2\x80\x99RE  in  a  village  almost  com-  pletely  cut  off  from  modern  civilization.  It  lies  at  the  end  of  a  skinny  peninsula,  the  only  access  being  a  primi-  " b"tive  ferry  that  makes  two  trips  a  day.  There're  four  vehicles  in  the  whole  town,  two  telephones,  one  radio,  and  no  TV  whatsoever.  The  entire  village  has  turned  out  to  witness  the  invasion  of  the  movie  company.  They  stand  in  little  tattered  groups,  holding  their  chil-  dren  high  on  their  shoulders.  They  watch  us  unloading  lighting  equipment,  sound  equipment,  camera  equipment;  equipment  worth  hundreds  of  thousands  of  American  dollars.  They  listen  to  us  speaking  French,  Italian,  Ger-  man,  English,  and  Greek.  They  stare  at  our  clothes.  They  watch  us  exactly  as  their  children  watch  us:  without  judgment,  with  no  animosity,  just  pure  amazement.  They  giggle  and  point  bashfully  at  the  long  blond  hair  of  the  grips  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  They  stare  at  the  tattoos  and  rock-and-roll  T-shirts;  the  A.D.s  running  in  circles,  yelling  into  their  mysterious  little  black  walkie-talkies;  the  director,  waving  his  arms  and  speaking  four  different  lan-  guages;  the  soundman,  trying  to  set  up  his  Nagra  in  the  shade  of  a  giant  banyan  tree,  unfolding  his  deck  chair  and  striped  umbrella.  The  tree  is  thick  with  long-tailed  grackles,  cackling  and  screaming  in  unison.  The  soundman  removes  his  headphones  and  stares  bewilderedly  up  into  the  horde  of  black  birds.  Someone  inside  a  wood-slat  shack  with  a  grass  roof  turns  on  the  only  ra-  dio  in  town.  A  beautiful  corrido  ballad  comes  ringing  out  through  the  hu-  mid  air,  joining  the  sound  of  thegrack-  les  and  the  giggling  children.  The  soundman  throws  up  his  hands  in  de-  spair.  The  second  A.D.  is  running  full  tilt  again,  across  the  plaza,  toward  the  little  wood  shack  where  the  radio  is  singing.  She's  yelling  in  Spanish  at  the  shack:  &quot;Siencio,  por  favor!  Silencio!&quot;  The  radio  keeps  singing;  the  grackles  keep  screaming;  the  children  keep  gig-  gling;  the  old  men  keep  laughing;  the  women  laugh  at  the  old  men;  the  young  men  laugh  at  the  women.  There  is  no  crying.  Not  one  child  in  the  whole  village  is  crying.  The  turkeys  are  gob-  bling;  the  pigs  are  grunting;  the  dogs  are  yapping;  the  roosters  are  crowing.  Not  one  car  is  honking.  Now  the  direc-  tor  is  screamingbut  the  vil-  lage  sings  on.  Nothing  can  stop  it,  not  even  the  movies.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MARCH  25,1996  An  old  charro,  astride  an  even  older  horse  with  its  ribs  sticking  out,  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  dusty  street,  staring  at  us,  with  his  leathery  hands  crossed  on  the  saddle  horn.  The  first  A.D.  asks  him  to  move  on,  since  he's  right  in  the  middle  of  the  shot.  The  charro  beats  his  old  steed  on  the  rump  with  a  frayed  shank  of  rope,  then  thumps  him  hard  with  his  bare  heels,  but  the  horse  only  blinks.  He  just  stands  there  with  hisears  drooped  and  re-  fuses  to  budge.  The  whole  vil-  lage  laughs.  The  director  yells  &quot;Silencio!&quot;  The  old  charro  thrashes  his  mount  again,  and  the  horse  gives  a  couple  of  pathetic  bucks,  then  walks  on.  The  whole  village  cheers.  The  charro  grins  and  tips  his  huge  sombrero.  The  laughter  goes  on,  ringing  out  into  the  jungle.  The  director  suddenly  changes  his  mind  and  wants  the  charro  back.  He  thinks  he  might  add  some-  thing  authentic  to  the  background,  but  it's  too  late.  The  old  man  has  disap-  peared  into  a  mango  grove,  and  the  A.D.s  can't  find  him.  He's  completely  vanished.  HE  camera's  finally  ready.  We're  filming  a  cockfight  on  the  street  in  front  of  a  dusty  pharmacy.  Me  and  Hendker  are  supposed  to  walk  into  the  middle  of  it  and  inquire  about  an  old  friend  we've  been  searching  for.  The  cockfight  is  for  real,  except  the  spurs  of  the  roosters  are  capped  with  little  leather  balls  rather  than  fixed  with  blades,  as  they  would  be  in  an  actual  gambling  match.  A  sand  arenahas  been  set  up  on  the  street  for  the  contestants.  The  roosters  arein  place  with  their  han-  dlers.  They  thrust  the  fighting  cocks  to-  ward  each  other,  getting  them  worked  up.  Our  little  French  focus  puller  steps  into  the  sand  ring  between  the  two  Mexican  handlers.  He's  wearing  tight  Bermuda  shorts  and  dainty  black  tennis  shoes,  and  he's  drawing  the  measuring  tape  out  from  the  lens  to  the  tip  of  his  nose  in  three-foot  increments.  He  places  the  tape  under  the  nose  of  oneof  the  Mexican  handlers,  who's  cra-  dling  his  rooster  like  ababy,  stroking  the  luminous  red  and  green  feathers  on  its  neck.  The  handler's  mouth  is  full  of  water.  He  holds  the  rooster  up,  fac-  ing  him,  then  spits  the  water  on  the  " b"THREE  STORIES  roosters  face  and  under  his  wings,  and  all  over  the  little  French  focus  puller,  who  takes  it  very  well.  He's  a  good  sport.  He  smiles  politely  at  the  Mexican  han-  dler,  who's  so  absorbed  in  preparing  his  rooster  that  he  hasn't  noticed  the  re-  sults  of  his  spitting.  The  focus  puller  makes  a  mark  with  his  finger  in  the  sand,  right  in  front  of  the  Mexican,  then  backs  out  of  the  ring,  coiling  his  tape  up  and  smiling  the  whole  while.  He  makes  a  humble  little  bow  as  he  exits  and  returns  dutifully  to  the  side  of  the  camera,  adjusting  the  lens.  The  Mexi-  can  handler  looks  down  and  notices  the  mark  in  the  sand.  He  has  no  idea  where  it  came  from,  but  he  wants  the  sand  smooth  forhis  fighting  cock,  so  he  erases  it  with  thetoe  of  his  sandal.  The  focus  puller  looks  up  and  notices  his  precise  mark  has  disappeared.  He  can't  figure  it  out.  He  re\xc3\xa9nters  the  ring,  uncoils  his  tape  measure  again,  and  makes  a  brand-new  mark  in  the  sand,  then  exits  the  same  way  as  be-  fore,  bowing  and  smiling.  Again,  the  Mexican  erases  his  mark.  The  fo-  cus  puller  keeps  smiling.  This  time  he  brings  a  small  stick  with  him  and  sets  that  down  as  his  mark.  The  Mexi-  can  tosses  the  stick  out.  Sticks  are  even  worse  than  marks  for  fighting  cocks.  When  the  fight  finally  gets  under  way,  the  shot  keeps  getting  interrupted  by  the  drunken  owner  of  one  of  the  roosters.  He  keeps  stepping  into  the  ring  and  cheering  him  on.  The  director  tries  to  explain  to  the  man  that  this  isn't  a  real  fight.  It's  just  for  the  camera.  But  the  man  doesn't  understand.  He  says  his  rooster,  which  he  calls  [REDACTED],  always  fights  to  the  death.  He's  fought  him  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  and  all  over  [REDACTED],  and  he's  always  fought  to  the  death.  It  will  spoil  him  for  future  fights  if  he  isn't  allowed  to  kill  his  opponent.  The  director  tells  him  this  isn't  possible  in  the  movies.  It's  illegal  to  kill  any  animal  for  the  movies.  The  owner  gets  offended  and  scoops  his  rooster  up  in  his  arms.  He  says  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  not  a  coward!&quot;  and  stomps  off.  The  director  apologizes,  but  the  owner  won't  allow  his  rooster  to  continue  under  these  circumstances.  He  staggers  away,  weaving  down  the  dirt  road  with  his  proud  rooster  stuck  under  his  armpit.  He's  turned  his  back  on  themovies. "