THE  MONTH  OF  DYING  I.  MY  DRUG-DEALER  WIFE  HEN  I  first  met  Angela,  in  [REDACTED]  in  -=  1990,  all  her  friends  were  actually  friends  of  Petar,  a  man  she  had  been  going  out  with  and  who  was  then  in  prison  in  [REDACTED].  These  friends  were  not  real  criminals,  just  dealers,  and  all  my  [REDACTED]  friends  used  their  services.  You  could  see  my  friends  huddled  together  on  city  squares,  stamping  their  feet,  clutching  the  money  in  their  pockets,  waiting  for  one  of  Angela's  friends  to  appear,  &quot;as  arranged.&quot;  Angela's  friends,  however,  enjoyed  the  dealer's  privilege  of  being  able  to  saun-  ter  along  nonchalantly  a  good  half  hour  late  or  simply  not  to  turn  up.  They  were  masters  of  what  they  offered,  while  my  friends  were  its  slaves.  With  time,  Angela  could  see  how  this  business  worked,  and  decided  to  try  it  herself.  She  was  an  innovator.  She  was  never  late,  or  at  least  not  very  late,  and  her  prices  were  reasonable,  and  she  soon  began  taking  her  friends'  custom-  ers  away.  It's  true  that  Angela  fiddled  with  the  weight  a  bit,  but  what  she  sold  was  reliably  pure  and  good.  Angela  lived  with  her  parents  and  brother  ina  three-  bedroom  flat  in  New  [REDACTED].  She  had  time  at  her  disposal,  and  a  lot  of  money,  earned,  in  a  sense,  honest-  ly.  Although  she  was  engaged  in  a  highly  criminalized  trade,  she  was  still  a  more  honest  worker  than  I,  who  trav-  elled  humbly,  every  morning,  from  my  apartment  in  Molerova  Street  by  tram,  then  by  bus,  to  my  office  in  Banovo  Brdo,  where  I  issued  dispatch  notes,  filled  out  forms,  did  battle  with  ledgers,  with  a  feeling  of  entire  indifference.  I  did  what  I  was  supposed  to  do  while  she  had  an  entrepreneur's  sense  of  ambition.     NGELA  and  I  used  to  meet  after  I'd  finished  work;  she  would  treat  me  to  lavish  quantities  of  heroin  or  crack,  ecstasy  or  coke.  When  I  was  high,  I  used  to  tell  her  about  the  women  I  BY  VLADIMIR  ARSENIJEVIC  worked  with:  a  bunch  of  good-humored  unmarried  girls  with  bad  hairdos  and  fat,  maternal  knees.  In  lazy  tones,  An-  gela  would  talk  about  her  &quot;fiancé,&quot;  in-  carcerated  some  distance  from  [REDACTED],  and  sentenced  to  be  there  until  1995,  so  it  was  not  surprising  that  my  fear  of  this  shadow  over  our  relationship  per-  sisted  right  up  to  our  wedding  day.  What  would  the  brute  say,  I  wondered,  as  I  watched  Angela,  jubilant  in  her  short  wedding  dress  the  color  of  face  powder,  dancing  a  waltz  with  my  father,  when  he  finally  turned  up,  fortified  by  his  prison  regime,  furious  and  strong,  to  claim  his  male's  sacred  right  to  Angela?  When  I  confided  my  fears  to  Angela,  she  smiled  sweetly  at  me,  ecstatic  with  coke  and  champagne.  &quot;But  he's  much  shorter  than  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You'd  like  him.&quot;  The  day  after  she  moved  in,  Angela  made  a  truly  miraculous  decision:  she  stopped  using  any  kind  of  opiate,  in  or-  der  to  clean  outher  organism  for  preg-  nancy.  Angela  sweated,  she  couldn't  relax,  she  slammed  the  door  at  the  slightest  provocation,  she  complained  of  backache,  nausea,  and  pains  in  her  joints,  but  she  did  not  give  in.  My  friends,  Angela's  customers,  turned  out  to  be  real  monsters.  They  didn't  want  to  return  to  their  previous  suppliers  and  they  besieged  our  apartment.  But  when  they  finally  realized  that  they  had  no  choice,  they  turned  on  me,  insisting  that  I  had  persuaded  Angela  to  stop  taking  drugs  andabandon  her  business.  Angela  didn't  take  the  slightest  notice  of  them,  or  of  the  fact  that  we  were  now  increas-  ingly  short  of  money.  She  cleansed  her-  self  for  a  whole  year,  and  I'm  convinced  that  she  became  pregnant  the  first  time  she  let  me  ejaculate  inside  her.  II.  LAZAR  WASNT  JOKING,  NOR  WAS  ANGELA  OR  a  long  time,  Angela's  brother  Lazar  was  not  a  topic  of  con-  versation  between  us,  and  it  was  only  after  we  married  that  he  became  one,  with  his  decision  to  impose  himself  on  our  lives.  He  would  make  an  ap-  pointment  to  visit  us,  always  at  the  same  time  on  the  same  day  of  the  week,  cre-  ating  a  kindof  conditioned  expecta-  tionthat  he  would  always  be  there,  at  that  time,  on  that  day.  And  after  a  few  visits,  if  either  of  us  suggested  a  different  arrangement  for  Saturday  mornings,  the  other  would  respond,  &quot;But  how  can  we?  What  about  Lazar?&quot;  We  were  afraid  that  he  might  be  hurt  by  our  absence.  Angela  was  particularly  sensitive  to  Lazar's  apparent  fragility.  &quot;You  don't  know  what  it  means  to  be  an  older  sister,&quot;  she  said  once,  in  a  voice  full  of  emotion,  and  I  found  that  comic.  But  it  soon  turnedout  that  I  really  did  not  know.  Angela's  heightened  sense  of  responsibility  dated  from  Lazar's  birth,  when  she  was  four  years  old.  From  that  early  age,  she  had  taken  on  a  difficult  task:  that  of  being  his  guide  on  the  untrodden  paths  of  growing  up.  According  to  Angela,  torn  by  pangs  of  conscience  and  shame,  the  contradictions  of  such  a  respon-  sibility  were  appalling.  She  remem-  bered  loving  him  intensely,  although  she  expressed  her  love  through  accusa-  tions  and  fabrications,  lies  and  slan-  der,  contempt  and  scheming.  Molding  him  freely,  as  if  he  were  a  lump  of  clay,  she  was  rewarded  for  her  efforts  when,  to  everyone's  consternation,  Lazar  suddenly  left  school  at  the  age  of  fif-  teen,  and,  in  a  frenzied  search  for  a  suit-  able  ideology,  decided  to  subject  his  body  to  all  kinds  of  trials.  His  chest  was  now  striped  with  scars  from  the  ra-  zor  blades  he  had  used  to  slit  his  skin,  and  his  pale  hands  wereburnedfrom  the  cigarettes  he  had  extinguished  on  them.  But,  as  is  often  the  way,  someone  came  along  and  revealed  a  path  that  he  could  follow:  Lazar  became  a  Hare  Krishna.  &quot;But  why  on  earth  did  you  do  all  that?&quot;  I  asked,  staggered  by  her  confes-  sion  of  her  early  mistreatment  of  Lazar.  ¥  Angela  looked  at  me  as  though  I  were  a  é  hostile  animal,  and  burst  into  tears.  Her  &amp;  tears  had  become  frequent,  andsome-  2  times  I  doubted  their  sincerity.  But  her  pain  could  be  so  convincing  that  I  would  cry  with  her,  out  of  solidarity.  Neverthe-  less,  I  feel  now  that  I  should  have  dealt  with  her  pain  in  some  way,  that  I  should  have  investigated  it  when,  instead  of  the  usual  Saturday  Lazar,  with  his  pigtail  and  with  books  under  his  arm,  we  re-  ceived  a  telegram  in  which  he  informed  us  that  he  had  responded  to  his  call-up  papers,  justifying  his  decision  more  as  karma  than  as  his  personal  desire.  Read-  ing  the  curt  message  several  times,  An-  gela  rubbed  the  palm  of  her  hand  over  her  stomach.  &quot;It's  just  the  heroin  getting  to  me,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  scarcely  audible  sigh-that  was  the  first  time  she  had  mentioned  it  since  we  had  been  living  together-and  her  hand,  as  she  laid  the  folded  telegram  on  the  table,  was  shak-  ing  uncontrollably.  &quot;Perhaps  he's  changed  his  mind  by  now?&quot;  My  unconvincing  suggestion,  offered  for  the  lack  of  anything  better,  redirected  Angela's  anger,  at  me.  After  a  violent  quarrel  and  mutual  recrimina-  tions,  we  spent  the  next  few  days  in  si-  lence,  until  the  mild,  sunny  afternoons  thawed  us.  On  one  of  those  afternoons,  we  vis-  ited  Angela's  parents.  They  were  polite,  as  always.  They  acted  as  though  noth-  ing  unusual  were  going  on.  I  suppose  that  they  had  the  best  of  intentions  knowing  not  to  test  Angela's  tempera-  ment-but  the  approach  was  misguided,  because  it  was  precisely  their  apparent  indifference  that  infuriated  Angela.  I  watched  them  both  as  Angela  calmly  broached  the  subject  of  Lazar's  depar-  turefor  the  front,  a  departure  that  her  parents  had  done  nothing  to  prevent:  they  were  tense,  braced,  and  very  appre-  hensive.  They  were  careful  to  avoid  any-  thing  that  might  provoke  her,  and,  by  answering  her  in  turns,  they  gave  each  other  short  breathing  spaces.  I  had  ob-  served  exchanges  of  this  kind  before,  and  in  the  end  one  always  found  one-  self  once  again  in  thecenter  of  that  whirlpool,  with  Angela  shrieking  &quot;You  make  me  sick!  You  make  me  [REDACTED];  un-  til  her  mother,  Vida,  in  a  vain  attempt  to  outshout  her,  began  talking  at  the  same  time:  &quot;What  is  it?  What  do  you  want?  You  should  be  ashamed  of  your-  self!&quot;  While  Angela  and  her  mother  were  screaming,  her  father,  Mihailo,  turned  to  me:  &quot;It's  no  joking  matter.  Just  down  the  road,  two  boys  were  arrested  for  avoiding  military  service.&quot;  Vida  then  made  amistake,  when  she  admitted  carelessly  that  she  had  no  idea  where  on  the  front  line  Lazar  was,  add-  ing  sorrowfully,  while  Mihailo  tried  to  silence  her  with  a  glance,  &quot;He  promised  to  write!&quot;  Although  Vida  bit  her  tongue  immediately,  conscious  of  her  fatal  error,  Angela  did  not  miss  the  opportunity.  In  spite  of  her  enormous  stomach,  she  leaped  to  her  feet;  standing  with  her  legs  apart,  massive  as  she  was,  she  looked  like  an  aggressive  bulldog  ready  for  a  scrap.  And  then  for  some  reason  we  were  given  a  considerable  quantity  of  cookies,  wrapped  in  foil,  just  as  Angela  was  let-  ting  fly  an  oath  and  Vida  was  weeping  bitterly  over  the  dishes  in  the  kitchen.  Later,  at  the  very  moment  of  a  new  fam-  ily  schism,  Mihailo  took  it  on  himself  to  soothe  the  situation,  by  appearing  in  his  new  slippers-showing  them  off  proudly  and  drawing  particular  attention  to  the  side  fastening.  His  touching  en-  deavor  did  not  bear  fruit.  Angela  was  noticeably  flagging  and  running  out  of  inspiration,  but,  determined  to  conclude  her  attack  with  a  flourish,  she  suddenly  hurled  the  cookies  to  the  ground,  splitting  the  foil,  scattering  brittle  pastry  over  the  carpet,  marking  it  with  jam  and  ground  walnuts.  She  dragged  me  into  the  hall,  slamming  the  door  violently  as  she  left.  III.  ON  THE  MONTH  OF  DYING  (NOVEMBER  1991)  AxlD  all  that  time,  November  was  de-  vouring  its  own  heart.  Dubrov-  nik,  shelled  and  in  the  news  in  October,  had  been  replaced  by  mind-blowing  Vu-  kovar  vignettes.  Angela  wept,  lying  on  the  sofa,  as  she  watched  splinters  of  the  devastated  settlements  on  the  Danube  and  Vuka,  behind  the  rustic-featured  war  reporter's  saccharine  outpourings.  Winding  diagonally  across  our  screen,  columns  of  numb  figures,  dragging  themselves  out  of  their  cellars  after  al-  most  a  hundred  days  under  siege,  smiled  shyly  at  us,  showing  their  broken  teeth.  We  saw  gray-haired  children,  and  a  sol-  dier  burned  to  the  bone,  the  black  mass  still  smoking  hideously;  we  saw  a  young  woman  with  half  a  head,  refugees  freez-  ing  insports  halls,  the  corpses  of  peo-  ple  and  animals  strewn  through  the  streets  of  a  shattered  town  where  men  were  driving  around  in  jeeps,  their  job  done,  and  we  shuddered  with  fear  that,  in  that  madness,  we  might  catch  sight  of  Lazar,  drunk,  unruly,  and  unshaven,  65  like  the  whole  crowd  of  our  Serbian  liberators.  So  we  turned  off  the  television.  We  were  incapable  of  dealing  with  such  scenes.  Weary  of  horror,  suddenly  aware  that  getting  used  to  death  would  take  longer  and  hurt  more  than  we,  in  our  gul-  libility  and  arrogance,  had  imagined,  we  comforted  ourselves  with  thoughts  of  the  New  Year.  We  were  increasingly  anxious  about  Lazar's  fate.  The  poverty  we  had  sunk  into  was  unbearable.  Luck-  ily,  we  had  the  prospect  of  the  child  to  take  our  minds  off  it.  But  even  that  couldn't  fully  heal  the  wounds  opened  by  the  scenes  from  Vukovar.  Angela  be-  gan  shaking  her  head  reproachfully.  Once,  when  she  was  in  the  kitchen  and  didn't  know  I  was  watching,  she  slapped  her  stomach  angrily,  but  straight  away  slumped  heavily  in  horror  onto  a  chair,  sobbing.  I  know  that  I  should  have  stepped  in  at  that  moment,  and  our  love  would  have  blossomed  forever,  but  I  didn't;  I  crept  back  into  the  living  room,  on  tiptoe,  so  that  Angela  wouldn't  know  of  my  chance  presence.  I  was  over-  whelmed  by  sadness  that  evening  as  she  did  her  maternity  exercises,  more  zeal-  ously  than  usual.  I  cameup  to  her  from  behind,  knelt  down,  and  kissed  her  on  the  neck.  Suddenly,  as  though  she  were  about  to  fall,  she  clung  to  me.  She  held  me  tight.  And,  itis  true,  an  abyss  gaped  beneath  us.  2  I  'E  next  day,  or  perhaps  the  day  af-  ter,  Angela  met  me  with  shining  eyes  when  I  came  home  from  work-  she  had  news  of  Lazar.  For  several  days  now,  she  had  fruitlessly  searched  through  the  [REDACTED]  barracks  where  conscripts  were  held  before  being  allo-  cated  to  the  war  zones.  She  had  also  gone  to  the  Defense  Ministry,  but  they  had  claimed  that  they  knew  nothing,  ex-  cept  that  Lazar  had  responded  tohis  call-up  papers-that  satisfied  all  their  requirements  for  information.  Lazar's  friends,  or  whatever  they  called  themselves,  were  no  more  coéperative.  When  An-  gela  visited  them  in  their  temple,  they  smiled  broadly,  sang  &quot;Hare  Krishna,&quot;  and  treated  her  to  a  vegetarian  lunch,  which  she  enjoyed;  but  she  left  them  knowing  more  about  their  beads  than  about  her  brother.  And  then,  in  the  bus,  exhausted  from  her  visit,  no  longer  knowing  where  to  turn,  Angela  met  someone  she  knew,  and  this  person  told  her  that  her  friend, or  relative,  or  someone  (Angela  had  for-  gotten  that  part  of  the  story,  because  of  the  impact  of  what  came  next),  had  just  come  back  from  Brsadin,  where  he  had  been  in  the  same  platoon  as  Lazar.  &quot;So  what  did  he  say,  how  is  Lazar?&quot;  asked  Angela,  breathless,  her  voice  weak  with  emotion.  &quot;He's  O.K.,&quot;  the  person  she  knew  replied,  shrugging  her  shoulders.  &quot;I  suppose.&quot;  EZAR  was  killed  three  days  later.  The  news  of  his  death  reached  us  by  telephone,  through  Angela's  mother's  choking  voice.  Angela  vomited  all  day  long.  I  was  afraid  for  our  unborn  child.  What  were  we  bringing  it  into,  I  won-  dered,  holding  Angela's  brow,  clammy  with  cold  sweat;  what  could  we  offer  it,  what  could  we  teach  it.  Where  was  that  little  bit  of  promised  brightness  in  our  existence?  IV.  HOW  I  FELL  IN  LOVE  WITH  DEJAN  AGAIN  HE  next  morning,  I  woke  weighed  down  by  cowardice  and  impotence.  Angela  was,  naturally,  far  worse.  She  be-  gan  the  new  day,  after  a  sleepless  night,  with  a  high  temperature  and  colorless  eyes.  I  showered  and  left  for  town  to  try  to  bargain  for  some  of  the  medicines  on  the  list  that  Angela  had  made  for  me.  I  stepped  out  of  the  dusty  hallway  into  the  wet,  black  streets.  As  always,  as  soon  as  I  emerged  from  Molerova  Street  onto  the  Bulevar  Revolucije,  several  curses  reached  me  from  different  directions.  It  was  the  beggars'  canonical  chant,  the  eter-  nal  murmur  of  the  dissatisfied,  which  had  always  sickened  me.  But  this  morning  I  found  myself  sorry  for  the  people  in  this  world  who  had  nothing  left  but  obsceni-  ties.  I  felt  sorry  for  each  one  of  us.  In  the  glare  of  a  sudden  vision  I  saw  everyone  running,  while  the  ground  beneath  our  feet  broke  up  with  a  terrible  cracking  sound,  and  out  of  its  depths  came  the  unbearable  stench  of  the  centuries  that,  in  our  inertia,  we  had  failed  to  use  in  a  dignified  way;  a  great,  slimy,  pulsating  monster  mocked  us  from  in  there,  un-  concerned  about  the  horror  that  we  were  conjuring  up  as  its  chosen  victims  van-  ished  randomly  in  the  depths  of  its  flesh.  There  were  many.  All  those  who  had  not  managed  to  find  a  shelter,  all  those  who  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  15,  1996  had  been  caught  unawares,  they  were  all  whisked  away,  like  kites  snatched  from  our  hands  by  the  November  gales.  OUGHT  to  have  been  horrified,  but,  like  many  of  my  fellow-  citizens,  I  carried  on  along  the  spittle-covered  streets,  with  the  trained  step  of  a  native  who  walks  without  fear  along  the  foot  of  a  live  volcano  on  the  island  where  his  tribe  has  survived  for  genera-  tions.  I  visited  a  few  chemists'  shops,  until  I  found  three  of  the  seven  medicines  on  the  list.  When  I  called  Angela  from  a  telephone  box  to  make  sure  that  everything  was  all  right,  I  got  the  answering  machine.  I  put  the  phone  down  with  a  sense  of  relief.  It  was  a  sign  that  Angela  had  somehow  man-  aged  to  fall  asleep.  Suddenly,  in  the  mass  of  people  around  me,  I  detected  the  one-armed  Dejan.  &quot;Hey!&quot;  I  called,  excited  at  the  logic  of  the  fact  that  I  was  meeting  Dejan  just  two  days  after  we  had  learned  of  Lazar's  death.  In  truth,  the  two  of  them  had  scarcely  known  each  other,  but  now  they  be-  longed  to  the  same  unregistered  club.  Dejan's  step  was  so  swift  that  his  right  sleeve,  gaping  open  (and  loose,  because  Dejan  had  not  sewn  it  up,  as  the  dis-  abled  usually  do,  or  shoved  it  into  one  of  his  pockets),  whipped  a  passerby  who  was  unable  to  get  out  of  his  way.  Afraid  of  losing  him  in  the  throng,  I  shouted,  more  loudly,  &quot;Hey,  Dejan!  Wait!&quot;  Then  he  stopped  abruptly,  as  though  cut  down  by  a  hail  of  bullets,  and,  strikingly  pale,  squinted  toward  me.  He  smiled  with  re-  lief  and  waited  for  me  to  catch  up  with  him.  We  shook  with  our  left  hands,  pre-  tending  that  we  weren't  doing  anything  unusual,  and  set  off  together  for  Mo-  lerova  Street.  Walking  beside  me,  Dejan  valiantly  attempted  to  give  the  impres-  sion  of  a  person  with  whom  everything  was  absolutely  well.  But  the  image  was  flawed.  The  first  indication  was  in  the  way  he  asked  me,  with  such  apparent  casualness,  &quot;How  is  everyone?&quot;-Ilike  someone  who  had  just  come  back  from  a  study  trip  abroad,  but  certainly  not  like  Dejan.  Embarrassed,  moved,  I  managed  not  to  reply.  Dejan  looked  like  an  animal  THE  MONTH  OF  DYING  caught  in  a  trap.  He  began  speaking  twice  as  fast  as  before,  breaking  his  words  up  nervously,  rarely  completing  sentences,  and  constantly  touching  the  rings  on  his  middle  and  fourth  fingers  with  the  thumb  of  his  remaining  hand.  But,  soon  afterward,  justice  allowed  me  to  even  the  score.  My  intention  was  reasonable,  but  who  is  to  say  that  De-  jan's  question  hadn't  sounded  equally  splendid  in  his  head?  I  wanted  to  put  an  end  to  this  skirting  round  the  issues.  &quot;So,  how's  the  arm?&quot;  I  asked.  What  I  had  meant  to  ask  was  &quot;How  are  things  without  the  arm?&quot;  but  I  was  embarrassed,  and  the  question  mocked  me  in  my  fear.  As  I  stood  there,  frozen  with  discomfort,  I  could  only  stutter;  Dejan  coughed  and  replied,  with  a  slight  smile,  &quot;Nothing  is  the  same.  You  see,  it  isn't  good,  but  it's  O.K.,  right.  .  ..  I've  learned  not  to  stand  crooked,&quot;  and  his  body,  of  its  own  accord,  placed  itself  in  thehabitual  posture  of  a  novice  invalid.  Although  I  seemed  to  myself  like  a  sur-  geon  whose  sweat  had  just  been  wiped  from  his  eyes  by  the  patient  he  was  op-  erating  on,  I  felt  my  love  for  my  friend  Dejan  blossom  with  full  intensity,  in  the  midstof  that  mournful  month  of  dying.  Dejan  increased  the  pace  of  his  speech,  and  so,  barely  keeping  up  with  him,  I  discovered  that  he  was  making  new  plans:  his  drumming  career  was  over,  that  was  clear,  but  he  would  no  longer  be  involved  in  music  and  was  in-  tending  to  open  an  agency  for  sexual  mediation.  He  even  invited  me  to  be  his  stud  for  unhappy  menopausal  women,  promising  me,  in  passing,  millions  if  I  shaved  off  my  sideburns,  but  he  didn't  give  me  a  chance  to  respond.  In  a  different  voice,  he  sank  into  a  long,  discon-  nected  lament  about  the  fact  that  since  he  had  returned  to  [REDACTED]  his  head  had  been  full  of  a  march  that  he  had  learned  at  the  front.  He  maintained  this  irritated  him  more  than  the  lack  of  his  arm.  He  woke  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  with  the  song  on  his  lips,  and  he  wouldn't  know  where  he  was-on  his  bed  in  his  parents'  home,  or  still  in  the  dream  of  a  man  exhausted  by  battle,  his  back  aching  from  the  sharp  stones  under  his  mat  while,  in  the  chaos  of  an  unexpected  attack,  shells  were  cracking  and  friends  were  slumping  to  the  ground  around  him.  Whatever  he  did,  poor  Dejan,  that  march  kept  coming  back  to  torment  him.  He  would  sit  on  a  No.  24  bus,  just  to  enjoy  the  trip  round  a  couple  of  fine  [REDACTED]  streets,  and  it  would  begin  drumming  in  his  head.  He  looked  at  the  people  in  the  streets  and  saw  nothing  but  units  at  ease,  wild  companies  of  armed  citizens,  fingernails  and  teeth.  We  stopped,  outside  the  apartment  in  Molerova  Street.  Our  hesitation,  as  we  faced  the  certainty  of  our  parting,  was  filled  by  the  wailing  of  a  red  truck.  &quot;Do  you  know  that  Lazar  is  dead?&quot;  I  said,  through  the  din.  &quot;Who?&quot;  asked  Dejan,  frowning.  &quot;Lazar,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;An-  gela's  brother.&quot;  Dejan  shrugged  his  shoulders  as  though  he  still  did  not  un-  derstand,  or  didn't  care.  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  won't  come  in  for  coffee?&quot;  I  offered,  to  break  the  taut  wire,  certain  that  Dejan  would  not  accept  the  invitation.  He  smiled  and  shook  his  head.  I  could  not  resist  hugging  him.  I  was  convinced  that  we  would  not  talk  again  soon,  let  alone  meet,  and  he  struck  me  as  coura-  geous.  He  had  no  intention  of  giving  up;  he  felt  bad,  but  he  balanced  himself  with  his  remaining  arm,  and  perhaps  he  would  find  an  equilibrium,  even  if  it  was  through  a  sexual-mediation  business.  Dejan  accepted  that  sudden  onrush  of  affection  with  gentle  submission,  but  I  held  him  long  enough  for  him  to  em-  brace  me,  finally,  with  his  whole  arm.  67  And  although  prepared  for  the  experi-  ence,  I  almost  choked  with  tears  when  his  stump  tapped  me,  impotently,  on  the  shoulder.  There  was  a  kind  of  harmony  in  that  drumming,  after  all.  It  was  a  stump  that  certainly  would  have  known  what  to  do,  if  it  were  only  given  the  chance  to  bean  arm  again.  I  cared  so  much  about  that  stump  just  then  that  I  would  have  liked  to  kiss  it,  out  of  pure  friendship,  as  one  kisses  people's  fore-  heads,  had  it  not  seemed  so  inappropriate.  V.  A  RELATIVE,  AND  MY  TOTAL  NOSEDIVE,  FROM  NYHICH  1  WOULD  EMERGE  IN  ONE  PIECE,  ENRICHED  BY  A  UNIQUE  MORAL  AZAR'S  body,  with  its  seven  bullet  holes,  arrived  accompanied  by  a  military  escort.  The  pay  which  that  body  had  not  managed  toreceive  was  trans-  ferred  to  his  father's  account.  Bent  over  the  coffin,  Mihailo  wept.  The  young  lieu-  tenant  from  the  escort  did  not  know  what  to  say,  and  it  was  clear  that  the  situation  maddened  him.  &quot;You  must  be  strong,&quot;  he  kept  repeating,  in  a  monotonous  voice.  Despite  the  announcement  in  the  pa-  pers  giving  the  time  and  place  of  the  cre-  mation,  there  was  neither  sight  nor  sound  of  Lazar's  friends.  They  were  sit-  ting  in  the  temple,  unconcerned  about  the  outer  world,  which,  unenlightened,  was  subject  to  such  blows.  Apart  from  two  young  soldiers,  who  had  to  be  there,  and  a  distant  relative  of  Lazar  and  An-  gela's,  the  shambling  funeral  procession  was  made  up  of  middle-aged  people  in  dark  coats,  several  with  antique  noses  blue  with  cold.  I  felt  like  an  intruder,  remote  from  Angela,  who  was  protected  by  her  position  at  the  head  of  the  procession,  her  black  clothes,  and  her  undeniable  belly.  I  walked,  therefore,  with  an  uncer-  tain  step,  too  far  from  my  mainstay.  In  the  last  few  years  of  my  life,  I  had  seen  many  funerals,  but  I  had  not  par-  ticipated  in  any  like  this.  The  sorrowful  and  comic  ritual,  involuntarily  arranged,  was  entirely  in  keeping  with  my  per-  sonal  notion  of  Lazar,  and,  after  the  whole  madness  ended  and  I  sank  into  a  relaxing  sleep,  Lazar  shone  before  me  with  the  halo  of  a  saint.  Apart  from  the  hearty  slap  that  the  priest  gave  a  novice  just  as  we  were  assembling  at  the  cemetery,  the  occasion  was  otherwise  marked  by  a  restrained  dignity  until  that  moment  when  the  funeral  official  with  thick  glasses  (I  had  seen  him  at  earlier  cremations)  gave  the  discreet  sign  to  his  invisible  colleague  that  the  coffin  con-  taining  Lazar's  body  should  now  be  low-  ered  into  the  depths  of  purgatory  by  ac-  tivating  a  simple  hydraulic  lever.  Taking  a  ritual  step  backward,  the  official  waved  his  hands  energetically,  like  a  traffic  po-  liceman,  before  he  bumped  into  a  rub-  ber  plant  and  toppled  onto  the  marble  floor,  his  behind  slapping  loudly  against  it.  The  distant  relative,  who  was  stand-  ing  beside  me,  could  not  contain  herself.  She  laughed,  and  her  giggle  resounded  oddly  in  that  place.  The  coffin  then  dis-  appeared,  creaking,  and  it  seemed  as  though  at  any  moment  the  worn-out  cable  would  snap  and  the  coffin  would  hit  the  ground  and  shatter  into  pieces.  Overcome  with  panic,  I  had  to  slip  out-  side,  to  get  some  air.  As  I  tiptoed  out,  a  renewed  burst  of  giggles  reached  my  ears,  followed  by  the  clattering  of  a  woman's  high-heeled  shoes.  Then  I  felt  the  heat  of  her  glance  on  my  back.  I  turned  to  confront  the  eyes  that  had  fol-  lowed  me,  and  a  clanging  of  little  spring  bells,  unseemly  at  that  time  of  year,  tick-  led  the  tiniest  hairs  on  the  inner  side  of  my  thigh.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  came  over  me,&quot;  the  relative  said,  ina  soft,  melodious  voice.  She  had  eyes  as  black  as  pitch,  and  her  full,  smooth  lips  made  her  romanti-  cally  beautiful.  She  spoke  very  calmly,  but  she  bore  her  divinity  in  a  quite  dif-  ferent  way  from  Angela.  Angela  dwelled  in  her  beauty  with  her  whole  being,  like  the  owner  of  a  magnificent  garment.  The  relative  bore  hers  under  lock  and  key;  she  trembled  with  fiery  shame  and  I  trem-  bled  before  her,  as  I  might  have  done  in  the  company  of  a  film  star,  although  she  was  in  fact  only  an  ordinary  good-looking     girl,  like  many  others  in  [REDACTED].  Ex-  changing  a  few  random  sentences,  we  walked  along  the  cemetery  path,  one  of  those  meandering  little  walkways  lined  with  crosses.  We  stepped  slowly.  Almost  imperceptibly,  the  relative  bestowed  on  me  her  warm,  dry  hand.  Snow  began  to  fall.  The  large  flakes  were  falling  on  our  faces,  and  against  the  panorama  of  the  old  cemetery,  in  accordance  with  the  logic  of  an  East  European  dream,  I  broke  all  the  rules:  I  kissed  her.  She  slipped  her  hand  under  my  coat,  and  when  she  squeezed  what  she  found  there,  I  gasped  with  pleasure  and  pain.  In  return,  I  bit  her  ear.  Her  earring  was  deliciously  cold.  I  want  to  say  that  I  tried  to  enjoy  the  role  that  had  been  assigned  to  me,  And  it  was  only  when  I  had  come  into  the  dish  of  the  relative's  palm  that  I  noticed  the  pimples  on  her  cheeks,  and  I  was  overcome  withshame.  I  pinched  and  caught  myself  as  I  did  up  my  fly.  She  smiled,  and  kissed  me  on  the  neck.  &quot;Have  you  got  a  cigarette?&quot;  she  asked  me,  tenderly.  My  underpants  were  full  of  snowflakes.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;Have  you  got  a  handkerchief?&quot;  She  smiled  again,  mocking  me.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  answered.  &quot;But  I'll  bring  one  next  time.&quot;  I  hurried  to  fix  my  clothes,  while  the  relative,  straightening  her  hair  with  her  other  hand,  slowly  wiped  the  palm  of  her  right  hand  on  the  cold  surface  of  a  nearby  cross.  I  had  never  done  anything  of  the  kind  before.  I  had  never  betrayed  An-  gela,  as  the  inadequate  expression  goes.  As  soon  asI  joined  the  little  group  hov-  ering  by  the  cemetery  gate,  my  gaze  met  my  wife'scold,  swollen  eyes.  With  adig-  nified  expression,  I  joined  her  and  qui-  etly  confided  a  great  secret:  &quot;She  asked  me  to  go  for  a  walk  with  her;  she  didn't  feel  well.&quot;  And,  who  knows,  maybe  An-  gela  believed  me.  Something,  though,  was  threatening  me  from  above.  I  felt  that  an  invisible  finger  was  pointing  straight  at  me.  But  there  was  no  light-  ning  to  punish  me  for  blasphemy,  for  violating  the  holy  vows  ofmatrimony,  and  for  the  sociopathological  abnegation  of  moral  responsibility.  I  smiled  at  the  absolute  impotence  of  the  Heavens:  So,  it's  true!  Everything  is  possible.  VI.  ABOUT  MY  MOTHER  AND  FATHER  IN  order  to  attend  Lazar's  funeral,  my  parents  had  arrived  some  days  ear-  lier  from  the  village  of  K.,  in  Fruska  THE  MONTH  OF  DYING  Gora.  Knowing  their  reluctance  to  alter  arrangements  at  short  notice,  I  took  this  visit  as  a  sign  of  their  sincere  grief  for  Lazar.  For  my  father  and  mother  the  coun-  try  was  a  source  of  exotic  pleasures  in  their  retirement,  as  it  is  for  many  people  who  have  spent  their  lives  in  the  city.  I  un-  derstood  why  they  like  K.  My  grand-  mother's  house,  where  they  now  lived,  was  a  masterpiece  of  secular  architecture,  shaped  by  the  shortage  (or  the  super-  fluity)  of  particular  materials  at  the  time  (the  house  was  built  in  1947  or  1948),  by  the  inadequate  knowledge  and  pro-  found  nostalgia  of  the  builders  (who  were  German  prisoners  of  war  being  held  in  [REDACTED]  and  who  were,  unexpect-  edly,  deported  back  to  [REDACTED]  before  their  work  was  completed),  and,  above  all,  by  my  grandmother's  organizational  caprices.  My  mother  decorated  the  house  with  flowers  of  every  conceivable  color,  and,  thanks  to  my  father,  the  un-  finished  side  of  the  house  was  now  cov-  ered  with  a  vine.  There,  in  the  hollows,  sparrows  built  their  nests,  and  my  father  was  sometimes  obliged  to  chase  them  away  with  an  air  gun,while  they  flew  at  rooftop  level,  deriding  his  marksman's  skill.  Shortly  after  the  German  builders  re-  turned  to  their  homeland,  new  workmen  arrived  led  by  a  state  artist  in  uniform,  and  a  monument  representing  a  warrior  was  erected.  The  names  of  all  those  from  the  village  of  K.  who  had  fallen  in  the  heroic  struggle  against  the  occupier  and  against  the  local  traitors  were  em-  blazoned  across  his  stomach;  among  them  was  my  paternal  grandfather's,  al-  though  he  had  never  fought  against  any-  one.  He  had  lived  in  the  village  as  a  teacher  and  he  had  planned  to  turn  his  talents  toward  beekeeping,  but  he  was  thwarted.  He  was  shot  during  the  war,  for  no  apparent  reason.  High  above  the  flat  head  of  the  war-  rior,  the  sky  had  until  recently  churned  up  westerly  or  easterly  clouds,  undis-  turbed.  Now,  in  November,  it  would  have  been  possible  to  sit  on  the  bench  in  front  of  the  crumbling  village  church,  whose  baroque  fagade  had  been  slowly  decaying  since  1764,  and  hear,  all  day  long,  the  muffled  thunder  of  gunfire  from  the  other  side  of  the  hill.  The  majority  of  the  male  population  of  K.  had  been  mobilized.  Those  who  were  left  (for  the  most  part  old  men,  the  village  drunks,  and  wastrels)  enjoyed  regular  afternoon  gatherings  in  the  cen-  ter  of  the  village.  My  father  had  grown  close  to  them,  and  as  a  retired  high-  ranking  officer  he  enjoyed  the  honored  status  of  main  spokesman.  Although  the  company  generally  chewed  over  some  theme  that  wasn't  exactly  clear  to  anyone,  my  father  would  sometimes  open  the  doors  of  his  soldier-cum-high-school-  teacher's  past,  and  settle  all  their  uncer-  tainties  with  wafers  of  logistics  and  strat-  egy,  or  explain  the  advantages  of  certain  weapons  over  others.  As  far  as  real  ques-  tions  were  concerned-such  as  why  there  were  no  young  men  in  the  village  and  who  was  going  to  work  the  land  when  the  time  came  for  it-my  father  would  keep  the  answers  haughtily  to  himself.  When  he  finally  felt  that  he  had  recited  his  piece,  he  would  make  his  ex-  cuses  and  leave.  I  see  him  walking  with  an  easy  step,  greeting  people  left  and  right,  like  the  father  I  remember  from  my  childhood  when  every  day,  before  lunch,  he  would  beat  our  neighbor  at  chess.  My  parents  had  met  Lazar  only  a  couple  of  times,  butthey  loved  him  madly,  and  I  found  thatlove  all  the  more  unusual  in  that  I  could  never  quite  gauge  whether  they  loved  me,  their  only  child,  at  all.  Sensitive  to  the  hierarchy  that  reigns  among  the  bereaved,  they  were  evidently  determined  not  to  stand  out  in  any  way  at  the  funeral,.  However,  my  mother  didnot  know  how  to  avoid  getting  irritated.  When  my  father  took  out  a  cigarette  in  the  chapel,  she  had  pinched  him  in  the  thigh  while  looking  coldly  in  the  opposite  direction.  He  leaped  aside  in  astonishment  and  pain,  but  he  understood  the  message,  and  the  incident  passed  unnoticed.  They  spent  the  remainder  of  the  ceremony  at  the  head  of  the  procession,  they  talked  in  whispers,  and  their  faces  expressed  fault-  less  grief,  and  dignity.  At  the  funeral  feast,  my  parents,  fol-  lowing  a  strange  impulse,  began,  with  the  other  guests,  to  sing  an  old  song  about  unhappy  love,  faded  roses,  and  snow.  And  when  they  had  finished  sing-  ing,  and  were  asked  how  they  could  bear  the  gunfire  that  they  were  obliged  to  hear  night  after  night  in  the  country,  my  mother  lit  her  own  cigarette.  Only  then  did  she  turn  to  her  interrogator,  with  an  apologetic  smile.  &quot;It's  dreadful,  you  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  it's  a  fact:  you  get  used  to  everything.&quot; 