SITTING  here  now,  thinking  of  him,  more  thoroughly,  than  I  know  myself.  His  was  a  salesman's  profession,  if  one  may  describe  such  dignified  slavery  as  a  profession,  and  though  he  tried  to  interest  himself  in  his  work  he  never  be-  came  entirely  molded  into  the  pot  of  that  business.  His  emotions  were  dis-  played  at  the  wrong  times  always,  and  he  never  quite  knew  when  to  laugh.  Per-  haps,  ifI  may  say  so,  he  never  was  com-  plete.  He  had  lost  something  vital.  There  was  an  air  of  quiet  solitude,  of  cryptic  wondering  about  both  him  and  his  name.  Although  he  was  ever  simply  and  im-  maculately  dressed,  I  always  imagined  he  had  been  dressed  by  someone  else.  When  I  first  heard  his  name,  I  won-  dered  if  he  hadn't  forgotten  some  other  and  had  merely  been  called  this  by  men.  His  last  name  was  Schoenzeit;  the  first  I  never  learned,  but  it  had  to  be  Alfred.  He  always  seemed  to  need  that  name.  Especially  when  he  sat  at  the  small  glass-topped  table  in  my  father's  show-  room,  slowly  perusing  the  columns  of  the  Times,  with  tears  of  perspiration  dot-  ting  the  reddened  ridge  that  his  gray  felt  hat  had  made  around  his  head.  The  shined,  bulgy-toed  shoes  placed  flatly  and  it  seemed  carefully  on  the  carpet,  his  overcoat  folded  neatly  on  a  chair,  the  bow  of  his  tie  stuck  so  perfectly  into  the  crevice  of  a  starched,  rounded  collar  completed  a  setting  where  I  am  sure  he  never  belonged.  Schoenzeit,  as  everyone  called  him,  often  was  gay.  I  might  add  &quot;happy,&quot;  but  of  the  last  I  shall  never  be  sure.  He  laughed  as  superciliously  as  any  of  the  others  when  someone  was  the  object  of  a  quip.  But  these  occasions  were  rare  and  never  lasted,  as  far  as  he  was  con-  cerned.  Always  he  returned  to  his  fogged  manner,  and  after  the  joke  had  faded  from  his  mind  the  light  which  seemed  to  brighten  his  countenance,  too,  disappeared,  and  he  was  once  more  enigmatic  and  incomprehensible.  I  had,  on  several  occasions,  been  alone  with  him,  and  may  truthfully  say  I  deeply  pitied  such  a  dejected  soul.  At  one  time  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  go  to  the  Bronx  to  interview  a  large  retail  drygoods  store,  and  I  was  instructed  to  carry  his  samples.  It  was  late  spring,  the  sky  was  cloudless  and  blue,  a  yellow  sun  was  slowly  warming  the  cool  morning  air,  and  the  usual  city  hurriers  were  ply-  ing  their  trade.  I  had  six  coats  in  my  arms,  holding  them  against  my  chest,  while  he  walked,  leaning  very  slightly  forward,  by  my  side.  His  feet  must  have  hurt  him,  for  he  pointed  them  outward,  laying  them  flat  on  the  ground  at  every  step.  When  walk-  ing,  he  seemed  to  be  striving  against  a  stiff  wind,  his  eyebrows  peaked  together,  forming  tiny  creases  at  the  bridge  of  his  nose.  His  hat,  placed  straight  on  his  head,  shaded  his  eyes,  which  gazed  seekingly  ahead.  It  was  necessary  to  walk  from  Eighth  to  Third  Avenue  in  order  to  reach  the  Elevated,  and  he  offered  many  times  to  rest.  I  must  have  looked  tired,  because  he  turned  to  me  once  and  laughed,  say-  ing  in  his  cracked  yet  resonant  baritone,  &quot;Hard  work,  eh,  kid?  Some  business  .  .  .&quot;  Of  course,  I  didn't  admit  my  weariness,  and  pitching  my  head  to  one  side,  rais-  ing  my  eyebrows  and  smiling,  assured  him  that  I  was  enjoying  it  as  much  as  he  was.  In  due  time,  we  approached  the  El,  and  about  a  block  away  he  slowly  and  lightly  touched  my  arm  and,  still  look-  ing  ahead,  he  asked,  &quot;Arthur,  do  you  get  paid  from  the  firm  for  carfare?&quot;  He  said  this  in  a  low  tone,  as  though  he  were  trying  to  hide  his  point  until  it  was  ab-  solutely  necessary  to  take  the  plunge.  I  thought  fora  moment  and  an-  swered,  &quot;Well,  whenever  I  have  to  go  anywhere  out  of  walking  distance  I  am  given  money  to  ride,  but  I  have  no  standing  allowance  for  such  purposes.&quot;  He  seemed  to  falter,  and  flushed  a  trifle  before  answering,  and  for  a  second  I  felt  both  rage  and  pity  for  this  decrepit  soul,  who,  it  seemed,  aged  many  years  as  he  turned  to  me.  I  knew  then  that  he  felt  as  though  his  life  were  ended,  that  he  was  merely  being  pushed  by  outside  forces.  And  though  his  bodywent  on  as  before,  the  soul  inside  had  crumpled  and  broken  beyond  repair.  He  was  asking  me  now  for  carfare.  I  knew  he  would  rather  have  been  pulled  apart  by  a  tiger,  but  he  was  asking  me  for  carfare,  a  nickel  to  hold  out  to  a  cor-  pulent,  uninterested  machine  for  his  fare.  My  heart  bled  for  him  at  that  mo-  ment,  and  as  we  mounted  the  long  stair-  way  to  the  trains  I  realized  that  as  low  and  shakingly  embarrassed  as  I  felt,  his  senses  were  that  much  more  tormented  and  destroyed.  And  I  marvelled  at  his  poise  under  the  circumstances.  The  coats  were  warm  now  against  me,  and  I  was  thankful  to  God  himself  for  this  ref-  uge  for  my  gawky  body  which,  with  the  expression  of  my  eyes,  must  reveal  to  him  my  sensations.  I  tried  as  best  I  could  to  make  this  situation  seem  as  if  it  were  common-  place-I  who  had  carried  samples  for  so  many  salesmen.  And  when  we  reached  the  turnstile,  I  balanced  my  burden  on  one  knee  while  I  dipped  my  free  hand  into  my  pocket.  Behind  my  throat,  I  cursed  myself  for  not  having  the  change.  I  turned  from  him  in  order  to  get  the  nickels  required,  and  when  I  lifted  my  eyes  to  his  figure  I  prayed,  until  my  temples  seemed  to  burst,  for  his  salva-  tion.  At  that  moment,  he  looked  so  bro-  ken,  so  dejected  and  lost  that  I  hastily  lowered  my  gaze.  He  appeared  to  me  then,  as  he  stood  there  at  the  turnstile,  like  a  small  dog  who  has  messed  in  the  house,  standing  now,  after  his  beating,  waiting  forhis  master  to  open  the  door  to  the  back  yard.  During  the  entire  ride  uptown,  we  two  spoke  but  sparingly.  The  bright  streets  below  changed  constantly  as  we  racketed  past,  and  the  windows  of  the  houses  facing  the  trains  offered  a  haven  for  my  confused  andweary  imagination.  He  sold  nothing  that  day  and  was  profusely  maltreated  by  the  attending  force  at  the  buying  office  who,by  virtue  of  their  superior  intelligence  and  ties  to  match,  were  vindicated  even  when  they  were  consciously  adding  to  the  vicissi-  tudes  of  a  seller's  life.  On  the  return  trip,  Alfred,  as  I  sub-  consciously  called  him,  became  more  voluble  and  questioned  me  as  to  my  am-  bitions  and  my  occupations  in  my  leisure  time.  Upon  hearing  that  I  owned  an  old  car,  he  immediately  became  interested  and  spoke  a  little  less  haltingly  than  was  his  wont.  From  constant  rebuff,  he  was  loath  to  venture  an  opinion,  and  often  embarrassed  us  both  by  ending  a  boun-  tiful  conversation  unexpectedly.  He  accompanied  me  to  my  father's  place  and,  placing  his  hand  on  the  small  of  my  back,  patted  me  lightly,  and  said  with  a  faint  smile,  &quot;Thanks,  Arthur-  and  I'll  ..  .  see  you  tomorrow.&quot;  With  that  farewell,  he  was  offinto  the  crowd,  and  his  restless  body  faded  slowly  into  the  dark  overcoats  of  un-  knowns  as  it  willingly  shrank  from  my  sight.  I  never  saw  him  again  andhad  for-  gotten  him  entirely  when  I  heard  of  his  death.  &quot;Schoenzeit  is  dead,&quot;  and  my  only  re-  collection  of  that  second  when  I  heard  those  words  is  a  slow  exhaling  of  my  breath  and  a  cool,  soft,  glowing  smile  within  my  soul.  