     THOUGH  Allen  Dow  had  not  lived  in  [REDACTED]  for  forty  years,  he  al-  ways  attended  his  high-school  class  reunions,  which  were  held  once  every  five  years.  The  basic  treasure  of  his  life  was  buried  back  there,  in  the  town  of  Olinger,  and  he  kept  hoping  to  un-  cover  it.  Julia  Reidenhauser,  on  the  other  hand,  hadn't  attended  are-  union  for  decades,  not  since  those  first  low-budget  get-togethers  the  class  com-  mittee  put  on  at  the  Wenrich  Grove  picnic  grounds  and  the  Schenktown  V.E.W.,  when  they  all  could  still  fit  into  their  high-school  clothes  and  still  meant  most  of  the  real  world  to  one  another.  &quot;Julia  is  here  this  year-with  Doris,  of  course,&quot;  Mamie  Kauffman  told  him.  Mamie  had  grown  round  as  a  muffin  and  her  little  clever  dimpled  hands-she  had  been  &quot;artistic&quot;  and  had  hoped  to  be-  come  a  fashion  designer-were  bent  by  arthritis,  but  she  still  had  the  starry-eyed  sweetness,  the  touchingly  relieved  happi-  ness  to  be  here,  to  have  arrived,  that  she  had  when  her  mother  would  walk  her  hand  in  hand  to  the  old  elementary  school  on  the  [REDACTED]  Pike,  and  boost  her  up  onto  the  three-foot  retaining  wall  that  sepa-  rated  the  asphalt  playground  from  the  sidewalk.  It  wasn't  a  playground,  exactly:  although  the  children  played  on  it  atre-  cess  it  had  no  swings  or  slides  or  basket-  ball  hoops,  just  a  few  half-erased  white  lines  and  circles  painted  on  it.  Only  the  teachers  knew  the  games  and  rules  that  went  with  those  markings.  The  asphalt  encircled  the  building  like  a  broad  moat,  and  was  strictly  divided  into  the  boys'  and  girls'  halves,  with  a  cement  walkway,  front  and  back,  as  the  dividing  line.  Everything  was  symmetrical  and  strict  at  the  old  el-  ementary  school  except  for  the  bobbing,  squirming,  tittering,  runny-nosed,  queasy-  tummied,  nervous-bladdered  students,  kindergarten  through  sixth  grade.  &quot;You're  kidding,&quot;  Allen  said,  but  knew  she  wasn't;  Mamie's  eyes,  smaller  than  the  eyes  she  had  had  in  grade  school,  glit-  FICTION  LUNCH  HOUR  BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  tered  mischievously  with  this  gift  she  was  giving  him.  Shewas  class  secretary  and  had  been  the  heart  of  the  reunion  com-  mittee  ever  since  there  were  reunions,  plotting  how  to  inveigle  each  one  of  the  hundred  and  twelve  class  members  to  at-  tend.  &quot;How  did  you  get  her  to  come?&quot;  he  asked.  Mamie  took  an  unexpected  offended  tone.  &quot;I  didn't.  I'm  through  with  begging,  Allen.  I  used  to  beg  Julia,  and  about  a  dozen  others  that  I  knew  would  have  a  swell  time,  you  know,  if  they  deigned,  but  now  I  figure,  Send  out  the  invitations  and  let  those  that  want  to  come  come.  We're  all  adults,  God  knows.&quot;  They  were  all  over  sixty;  they  had  graduated  forty-five  years  ago,  the  June  the  Korean  War  started.  Seven  of  the  hundred  and  twelve,  by  the  secretary's  accounting,  were  already  dead.  Yet  all  around  him,  through  a  mist  of  gray  hair  and  wrinkles  and  body  fat,  Allen  saw  children's  faces,  rising  essentially  un-  changed  up  through  the  grades.  Mamie  added,  &quot;Betty  Lou  says  Doris  begged  her  to-she  didn't  want  to  come  all  that  way  from  Schenktown  alone.  And  I  guess  Julia's  over  her  time  of  troubles,  with  her  health  and  husband  and  all.&quot;  Time  of  troubles?  Mamie  had  never  left  Olinger-in  fact,  she  lived  two  blocks  from  her  mother,  who  was  still  alive-and  assumed  that  Allen,  who  had  gone  away  to  college,  and  then  into  the  Army,  and  then  to  New  York  City,  and  for  thirty  years  had  lived  in  [REDACTED],  knew  more  than  he  did  of  local  news.  He  did  remem-  ber  Ann  McFarland  telling  him,  back  at  the  fifteenth  reunion,  that  Julia  had  said  she  would  come  only  if  she  could  lose  ten  pounds,  but  she  hadn't  managed  to,  and  so  had  proudly  stayed  away.  She  came  by  bus  from  Schenktown,  six  miles  from  Olinger,  and  hadn't  entered  the  school  system  until  the  ninth  grade;  she  was  not  a  slave  to  the  old  Olinger  magic  the  way  Mamie  and  Betty  Lou  and  Ann  were.  Allen's  mother  had  always  marvelled  at  the  good  opinion  Olinger  people  had  of  themselves.  It  was  not  as  if  it  were  the  richest  suburb  of  [REDACTED],  or  the  prettiest,  or  the  &quot;Dutchiest.&quot;  In  [REDACTED]  Dutch  country,  Dutchiness  could  be  measured,  not  just  by  counting  the  number  of  deco-  rated  barns  and  whitewashed  old  inns  in  a  town  but  by  a  certain  sullen  air  of  resis-  tance  to  all  the  things-malls,  self-serve  gas  stations,  discount  outlets,  housing  projects  for  the  elderly  and  less  fortunate-that  diluted  the  way  things  used  to  look.  Buses  of  tourists  came  out  from  Baltimore  and  [REDACTED]  tosee  how  things  used  to  look.  Olinger  had  a  pre-Revolutionary  limestone  house  at  its  center,  and  the  memory  of  a  nineteenth-century  track  for  harness  races  beneath  the  curving  streets  of  the  rather  posh  section,  Oakdale,  de-  veloped  in  the  thirties  and  extended  up  the  sides  of  Shale  Hill  after  the  war,  but  the  town  was  not  especially  Dutchy,  even  with  the  multiplication,  it  seemed  to  Al-  len  upon  each  return,  of  mass-produced  regional  kitsch-decal  hex  signs,  dolls  in  Amish  costume.  Someone  driving  from  Lancaster  to  [REDACTED]  would  pass  through  Olinger  as  a  segment  of  a  continuous  strip  of  commer-  cial  enterprise.  In  Allen's  boyhood,  the  town  had  trailed  off  into  cornfields,  an  old  gristmill,  a  creek  full  of  watercress,  a  great  stone  quarry  both  dangerous  and  enticing  in  its  emptiness.  Now  all  such  mysterious,  underpopulated  terrain  was  filled  with  shopping  centers,  car  lots,  aluminum  din-  ers,  and  fast-food  franchises.  Still,  Olinger  retained,  at  least  in  the  minds  of  his  gen-  eration,  a  distinct  sense  of  itself  as  a  sane  and  blissful  medium  between  the  laugh-  able  rural  innocence  of  a  one-street,  one-  mill  place  like  Schenktown,  tucked  into  bleak  stretches  of  corn  stubble  and  work-  ing  orchards,  and  the  urban  horrors  of  [REDACTED],  a  big  depressed  industrial  town  in-  creasingly  dominated  by  its  citizens  of  color.  The  people  of  Olinger  were  proud  of  being  where  they  were,  and  Allen  still  felt  his  initial  departure,  set  in  mo-  tion  by  his  mother,  as  a  loss.  She  had  talked  his  father  into  moving  out  of  Olinger  into  an  old  farmhouse  seven  miles  to  the  south  when  Allen  was  an  un-  &amp;  lucky  thirteen.  é  Though  tending  to  hang  back  shyly  at  &amp;  these  reunions,  as  he  had  in  high  school  2  between  fits  of  awkward  brashness,  he  stood  up  and  looked  for  Julia.  The  re-  union  was  being  held  in  a  function  room  ofan43616e616461  restaurant,  festooned  with  the  class  colors,  maroon  and  gold.  Blown-up  photos  from  the  old  days  had  been  hung  about.  A  long  buffet  table  was  being  set  up.  The  bar  was  busy  and  noisy.  He  found  Julia  standing  not  far  away,  in  the  center  of  the  room,  with  a  few  old  admir-  ers  and  the  inseparable  Doris  Gerhardt.  Good-natured,  ginger-haired  Doris  had  been  perhaps  the  shortest  member  of  their  class,  and  oneof  the  first  to  get  mar-  ried.  Both  women  kissed  him,  which  Allen  had  not  expected.  Doris's  kiss,  de-  livered  strenuously  upward,  was  warmer,  more  pressing,  but  Julia's  certainly  oc-  curred,  a  moist  female  moment  in  the  center  of  his  lips.  The  [REDACTED]  cour-  tesy  kiss,  an  antiseptic  brushing  of  the  cheeks,  didn't  exist  here.  Julia  had  put  on  at  least  ten  pounds  since  high  school,  but  her  tallness  and  elegantly  erect  pos-  ture  made  light  of  it.  Her  hair  was  white  but  still  abundant  and  somehow  high,  springing  from  her  forehead  in  a  soft  combed  crest,  and  then  falling  away  to-  ward  her  wide  shoulders.  She  had  a  hook  nose  and  gray-green  eyes  with  a  curi-  ous  dark  quiet  to  them:  a  German  beauty,  sallow-skinned,  carrying  herself  as  if  sim-  ply  being  herself  was  quite  enough.  In  high  school  she  had  gone  out  for  no  ac-  tivities,  that  he  could  remember.  In  the  yearbook  she  had  listed  as  her  main  am-  bition  &quot;to  get  out  of  school.&quot;  In  class  she  was  stately  and  impervious,  except  when  called  upon  to  recite;  as  she  stood,  her  face  flooded  with  a  blush  that  sent  an  erot-  ic  shiveracross  the  rows.  Her  smile  had  an  engaging  helpless  air  to  it,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Well,  what  can  one  do?&quot;  Was  kennt  mann  dub?  Allen,  who  had  been  nervous,  jit,  tery,  trying  too  hard  to  get  back  into  the  Olinger  groove,  was  struck  by  how  calm  he  suddenly  felt  in  the  presence  of  Julia  and  little  Doris.  He  became  another  self,  calmer  and  taller.  &quot;How  are  you  both?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  we  can't  complain  too  much,&quot;  Doris  said.  &quot;Maybe  you  can't,  but  I  can,&quot;  Julia  said,  brushing  back  her  thick  hair  with  a  lan-  guid  gesture.  &quot;I  spend  half  my  time  at  the  dentist  and  the  rest  at  the  chiropractor.&quot;  &quot;You  look  great,&quot;  Allen  said.  &quot;You  both  look  great.&quot;  And  then  he  interrupted  their  stilted  but  smiling  pleasantries  to  call  his  wife  out  of  another  conversation-  she  had  been  to  enough  reunions  with  him  to  have  her  own  acquaintances  in  his  class.  He  wanted  her  to  meet  Julia.  The  two  women  shook  hands  and  looked  at  each  other  with  a  quizzical  blandness,  and  Allen  wondered  why  he  had  forced  this  little  encounter,  and  why  he  felt  so  uncharacteristically  relaxed  and  at  home.  Then  he  remembered:  lunch  hour.  To  these  Schenktown  girls  he  had  been  an-  other  country  person,  a  normal  person.  They  had  not  minded  his  being  torn  from  Olinger,  a  freak  son  of  a  freak  family;  they  had  seen  him  as  he  was,  a  man-to-be.  I_IIS  family's  move  had  occurred  when  he  was  in  the  eighth  grade.  The  farm  wasn't  in  the  Schenktown  direction,  but  to  the  southeast  instead  of  the  south-  west  of  Olinger  and  [REDACTED].  There  was  no  bus,  as  there  was  from  Schenktown,  but  the  shop  teacher  at  the  high  school  hap-  pened  to  live  in  the  vicinity,  and  agreed  tocarry  Allen  into  Olinger-to  smuggle  him  in,  almost.  The  idea  of  going  to  a  school  in  the  district  in  which  they  now  lived  horrified  him,  as  anabysmal  dis-  grace,  adescent  into  a  chasm  of  strange  rural  children,  smelling  brutishly  of  hay  and  dung.  Somehow,  his  parents,  guilty  at  the  inconvenience  wrought  in  his  life,  managed  the  transfer,  and  until,  in  the  tenth  grade,  he  got  his  driver's  license,  he  went  back  and  forth  as  a  kind  of  baggage,  killing  time  on  the  school  grounds  or  at  the  luncheonette  up  the  street  until  the  shop  teacher  was  done  with  his  duties  and  Allen  could  hitch  his  ride  home.  He  had  gone  from  being  an  Olinger  boy  to  being  a  waif,  a  homeless  bumpkin  just  clinging  to  the  status  of  a  student.  There  was  no  one  elselike  him  in  the  class.  But  in  truth  Olinger  had  begun  to  slide  from  him  before  the  move.  Begin-  ning  in  about  the  fifth  grade,  school  would  be  full  of  chatter  and  gossip  con-  cerning  weekend  events  that  had  excluded  him-gatherings  in  somebody's  garage,  or  down  at  the  quarry,  or  in  West  [REDACTED]  at  the  roller-skating  rink  at  the  amuse-  ment  park.  There  was  a  gang,  and  he  was  not  in  it.  He  had  lost  the  trail  that  he  had  been  following  since  the  walks  to  kinder,  garten,  and  the  summers  spent  at  the  Olinger  playground,  and  the  bicycle  trips  in  a  pack  all  over  the  town,  with  the  knot  of  boys  and  girls  he  had  known  all  their  lives.  Of  the  girls,  some  were  prettier  than  97  others,  with  more  spunk  and  energy,  but  it  hadn't  at  first  mattered  as  much  as  it  came  to  matter  by  seventh  or  eighth  grade.  By  the  time  he  moved,  he  almost  felt  he  might  as  well  live  in  the  country,  where  he  could  read  mystery  novels  in  peace,  and  practicesetshots  at  a  hoop  his  father  had  nailedto  the  barn  wall  for  him,  and  hoe  in  the  &quot;organic&quot;  garden  his  mother  had  planted.  In  the  tenth  grade  he  got  his  driver's  license,  and  that  summer  his  parents  scraped  together  the  three  hundred  dol-  lars  to  buy  him  a  1937  Chevrolet  to  go  back  and  forth  in.  He  found  himself  in  the  same  orbit  as  Julia  and  Doris.  These  particular  country  people  had  money,  it  turned  out.  Their  fathers  were  not  farmers.  There  was  an  old  hat  factory  in  Schenk-  town,  and  though  felt  hats  would  soon  fade  from  daily  use  in  [REDACTED],  enough  prosperity  had  been  generated  toafford  Julia  the  use  of  a  green  Studebaker  con-  vertible  and  Doris  that  of  a  Willys  station  wagon,  with  all-steel  sides  instead  of  var-  nished  wood,  still  a  novelty  in  1948.  The  cars  liberated  them  not  only  from  the  bus  but  from  the  high-school  cafeteria;  while  most  of  the  students  walked  home  for  lunch  in  the  compact  blocks  of  Olinger,  and  the  others  were  dished  up  fried  Spam  or  chicken  a  la  king  in  the  cafeteria  line,  Julia  and  Doris  and  Allen  and  some  Schenktown  boys  like  Wilbur  Miller  and  Morris  Hertzog  drove  up  and  down  the  [REDACTED]  Pike  in  one  or  another  of  their  cars,  looking  for  the  perfect  hamburger.  Lun-  cheonette  or  diner  food  cost  a  few  dimes  more  than  cafeteria  food,  but,  justas  Al-  len's  parents  had  agreed  that  the  country  high  schoolwasn't  good  enough  for  him,  they  provided  the  five-dollar  weekly  al-  lowance  for  his  wide-ranging  lunches.  Looking  back,  he  marvelled  at  their  gen-  erosity  and  his  selfishness:  a  starving  teen-  age  predator,  hungry  for  hamburgers,  ac-  ceptance,  and  gasoline.  After  lunch,  there  would  still  be  time,  in  the  fifty-five  minutes  the  school  allot,  ted,  to  drive  around.  In  that  [REDACTED]  of  the  late  forties,  before  the  transfor-  mations  of  the  postwar  boom  had  really  taken  hold,  pure  countryside  lay  five  min-  utes  from  Olinger  in  every  direction  except  along  the  trolley  tracks  toward  [REDACTED].  Hilly,  twisting  roads  connected  lonely  farmhouses  and  an  occasional  roadside  store  with  two  rusty  redgas  pumps  outside.  Allen  remembered  stand-  ing  up  in  the  rear  seat  of  Julia's  Stude-  98     baker,  battered  by  wind,  and  then  ly-  ing  back  across  the  folded  convertible  top  onto  the  sun-warmed  metal  of  the  trunk  and  watching  the  dazzling  alterna-  tion  of  sky  and  tree  branches  scud  by  overhead.  Little  cemeteries  of  tilted  sandstones,  mysterious  thick  groves  of  planted  ever-  greens,  rickety  farm  stands  that  would  have  appeared  deserted  but  for  their  rows  of  fresh  orange  pumpkins  and  the  bon-  neted  old  woman  keeping  an  eye  open  from  the  porch,  collapsing  stone  spring-  houses,  the  overgrown  ruins  of  old  iron  forges,  creeks  making  brown  foam  with  their  chuckling  small  waterfalls,  fields  of  corn,  of  rye,  of  tobacco,  of  cattle,  of  peach  and  apple  treesin  blossom  or  bent  low  with  fruit-all  this  poured  around  the  noontime  travellers,  who  were  oblivious  of  most  everything  but  one  another  and  the  sensation  of  speed.  When  Allen  was  the  automotive  host,  in  the  old  black  Chevrolet,  he  had  a  trick,  safer  than  it  looked  but  infallibly  producing  shouts  and  screams  from  his  passengers,  of  putting  the  car  in  neutral  at  the  crest  of  a  hill  and  getting  out  on  the  running  board  and  steering  through  the  window.  The  chance  of  meeting  another  car  was  not  great.  The  roads,  laid  out  in  dirt  for  horse-drawn  farm  wagons,  had  been  paved  before  the  war.  Soon  enough  they  would  be  broad-  ened,  and  the  curves  straightened  at  the  cost  of  a  little  dormered  farmhouse  or  stone-sided  dirt-ramp  barn,  but  for  now  they  formed  an  empty  maze  that  called  these  licensed  adolescents  out,  out  from  the  high  school  with  its  crammed  halls  and  classrooms,  its  perfumed  and  slick-  haired  mobs  in  angora  sweaters  and  cor-  duroy  shirts  and  saddle  shoes  and  penny  loafers,  its  whispering  seethe  of  romance  and  breakup  and  calculated  misbehavior  and  its  merciless  gradations  of  worth,  by  Olinger  standards-the  shining  ins  and  the  shadowy  outs,  the  attractive  and  ad-  mirable  versus  the  many  more  who  were  neither  of  these  things.  Reunions  revealed  that  keenly  felt  structure  of  implacable  discriminations  to  have  been  a  poor  predictor  of  adult  per-  formance.  It  was  the  comically  tongue-  tied  bumpkin,  invisible  in  class,  who  moved  to  [REDACTED]  and  founded  an  em-  pire  of  plant  nurseries  and  parked  a  silver  Jaguar  in  the  lot  of  the  reunion  restaurant.  It  was  the  forlorn,  scorned  daughter  of  a  divorced  mother-a  monstrous  thing  in  those  days-who  had  become  a  glamor-  ous  merchandising  executive  in  [REDACTED].  The  class  cutups  had  become  school-  teachers  and  policemen,  heavy  with  civic  responsibility.  The  prize  for  newest  fa-  ther-his  bouncy  fourth  wife,  in  a  low-cut  satin  minidress,  indistinguishable  from  his  third,  five  years  ago-went  to  a  boy  who  had  never,  as  far  as  anyone  could  re-  call,  attended  a  dance  or  gone  out  on  a  date.  The  class  wallflowers,  an  almost  in-  visible  backdrop  of  colorless  femininity  against  which  the  star  females  had  done  THE  NEW  YORKER,  DECEMBER  18,  1995  their  cheers  and  sported  their  athletic  boyfriends,  had  acquired  graceful  manners  and  a  pert  sub-  urban  poise,  while  the  queens  of  the  class  had  succumbed  to  a  lopsided  overdevelopment  of  the  qualities-bustiness,  peppiness,  recklessness,  a  cunning  chiselled  hard-  ness-that  had  made  them  spectacular.  Julia  had  been  spec-  tacular  but  seemed  un-  aware  of  it  or,  if  aware,  dismissive  of  it.  Her  characteristic  expression,  that  worried  smile  which  asked,  &quot;What  can  you  do?&quot;  alternated,  in  Allen's  ob-  servation,  with  a  faintly  grim,  masculine  intent-  ness,  as  when  she  was  driving  her  convertible  fast,  with  her  chestnut  hair  flattened  back  from  her  forehead  and  rippling  furiously,  or  when  she  was  smoking  a  cigarette  at  lunch.  Her  lower  jaw  would  move  out  under  the  ciga-  rette  and  her  eyes  would  narrow  like  a  man's.  The  way  shealways  travelled  with  an  attendant,  little  Doris,  enhanced  the  powerfully  exotic  impression  she  made  on  the  class  élite.  The  good-looking,  dynamic  girls  courted  her,  and  enrolled  her  in  their  circle  almost  against  her  will.  She  shrugged  off  as  ridiculous  the  boys  who  professed,  along  the  wriggling  grape-  vines  of  gossip,  their  love  for  her.  She  had  no  sex  life,  that  Allen  could  see;  perhaps  it  was  back  in  Schenktown.  The  boys,  Wilbur  and  Morris,  who  came  along  on  their  lunchtime  drives  had  a  countri-  fied  softness  and  discretion  ofmanner,  as  if  life  were  innocent  of  undercurrents,  as  if  these  devil-may-care  lunchtime  ex-  cursions  were  not  an  exhilarating  exer-  cise  in  bonding,  in  nerve,  in  defiance  of  the  order  imposed  in  Olinger  High  and  the  surrounding  tight  community  of  semidetached  brick  houses.  There  was  something  negative,  something  refusing  about  Julia  that  Allen  liked,  without  be-  ing  tempted  to  cross  the  pleasant  sexless-  ness  between  them.  If  she  had  ever  kissed  him  before  this  forty-fifth  reunion,  he  had  forgotten  it.  Their  rural  mobility  brought  its  so-  cial  rewards.  More  than  once,  as  ju-  niors  aged  into  seniors,  Julia's  Studebaker  LUNCH  HOUR  or  Doris's  station  wagon  showedup  on  a  weekend  at  Allen's  farm,  that  farm  with  which  his  mother  had  expected  to  place  an  irrevocable  remove  between  her  family  and  Olinger.  They  would  carry  him  away,  in  a  nest  of  passengers  that  in-  cluded  not  just  the  Schenktown  pals  but  such  prizes  as  Mamie  and  Betty  Lou  and  Ann,  and  the  boys  they  deemed  accept-  able.  By  way  of  Julia's  magnetism  and  the  power  of  the  automobile,  he  had  made  his  way  back  in,  into  those  mysterious,  point-  less,  indispensable  get-togethers  that  had  begun  to  exclude  him  in  the  fifth  grade.  The  group  went  bowling,played  canasta  in  clouds  of  cigarette  smoke,  watched  in-  fant  television,  drove  to  a  pond  where  there  was  a  dock  and  diving  board-  flimsy  excuses,  all  of  them,  for  being  to-  gether  and  staying  together,  on  the  edge  of  those  possibilities  they  felt,  dimly,  ap-  proaching  to  shape  and  limit  their  lives.  It  was  a  little  late  for  him;  he  was  plot-  ting  his  own  escape  from  Olinger,  follow-  ing  his  mother's  lead  after  all.  But  he  was  happy  to  be  in  a  gang  again,  and  took  with  him  into  the  world  the  added  confidence  of  being  accepted.  Until  tonight  he  had  not  distinctly  seen  how  much  that  acceptance  had  been  something  Julia  had  passed  on  to  him,  not  valuing  it  greatly  herself.  Of  her  life  once  she  made  her  escape  from  school  he  knew  little  and  needed  to  know  nothing-a  Schenktown  husband,  a  row  of  children,  a  dose  of  the  illnesses  and  disappoint-  ments  thatgive  life  its  final  flavor  of  death.  She  had  tasted  it  all  even  then.  Well,  what  cana  body  do?  All  we  have  in  the  end  is  pride.  The  erect  way  she  car-  ried  herself  in  those  vanished,  clattering  halls  had  made  her  breasts,  in  an  old-  fashioned  edgy  bra  and  fuzzy  sweater,  jut  out  sharply,  above  a  stomach  as  tautly  flat  as  if  she  had  taken  a  deep  breath  to  sing.  SO  that  was  why  he  had  felt  relaxed  and  tall  and  grateful,  accepted  for  what  he  was,  seeing  Julia  Reidenhauser  again.  But  why  had  he  felt  that  sharp  impulse  to  introduce  her  to  his  wife?  He  watched  his  wife  move  about  in  the  motel  room  in  [REDACTED],  slowly  undressing,  fussing  at  the  provincial  inadequacies  of  the  accom-  modations-instant  coffeein  the  bath-  room  but  no  shower  cap  or  bath  oil-yet  sweetly  calm  and  somewhat  absent  be-  neath  this  skin  of  irritation.  A  woman  was  a  circle  whose  center  was  slightly  else-  where.  Allen  wondered  if  he  would  live  tosee  the  fiftieth  reunion,.  Mamie  had  spoken  into  the  microphone  about  it,  her  lisping  voice  curling  around  a  vision  of  something  extraordinary-a  cruise  on  the  Chesapeake,a  weekend  in  Bermuda  even,  which  aren't  as  expensive  as  you  would  think,  off  season.  She  wanted  them  all  to  write  her  with  their  ideas.  &quot;And  please  in-  clude  your  present  correct  address,  for  the  class  list.  Things  don't  get  forwarded  any-  more;  the  parents  that  used  to  do  it  are  gone.&quot;  Help,  she  was  saying,  we  are  sink  ing  into  the  sea  of  the  generations.  There  was  no  more  Olinger  High  School;  the  name  had  been  swallowed  upby  a  region-  alization  in  the  fifties,  and  the  high-  school  building  itself,  with  its  waxed  oak  hallways  and  wealth  of  hidden  asbestos,  had  been  reduced  to  rubble  in  the  seven-  ties.  At  their  twenty-fifth  reunion,  the  door  prizes  had  been  yellow  bricks  sal-  vaged  from  the  rubble.  &quot;Maybe  this  will  be  the  last  one  I'll  drag  you  to,&quot;  Allen  told  his  wife.  She  gave  him  a  harassed,  dishevelled,  lovable  look.  &quot;Miss  your  fiftieth?  Why?  I  don't  mind  them.  They're  nice  peo-  ple,  really.  They  just  have  never  gone  anywhere.&quot;  &quot;I  think  they  think  they're  already  there.  How  did  you  like  Julia?&quot;  Julia  had  left,  with  Doris,before  the  dancing  be-  gan,  and  the  post-dinner  drinking.  First,  Butch  Fogel  had  shown  an  old  movie  his  father  had  taken  on  8-mm.  film,  of  a  Me-  morial  Day  parade  in  1937,  and  thenof  a  clambake  on  the  vacant  lot  next  to  the  Lutheran  church:  Allen  had  been  ecstati-  cally  rapt,  spotting  as  they  flickered  by  an  old  Sunday-school  teacher  brandishing  a  cigar,  and  the  bald  doctor  who  used  to  come  visit  with  a  little  unfolding  black  bag,  and  (for  a  piercing  split  second)  his  youthful  father,  mugging  for  the  camera,  and  then  the  fat  town  policeman  who  at  Christmas  always  dressed  up  as  Santa  Claus.  Allen  looked  for  himself  in  the  swiftly  panned  throngs,  buthe  would  have  been  only  five,  and  would  he  have  recognized  himself  anyway?  &quot;Which  was  she?&quot;  &quot;The  tallish  one  with  the  hook  nose  and  the  crown  of  white  hair.&quot;  &quot;She  seemed  a  bit  above  itall.&quot;  &quot;That  was  her  approach.  But  she  wasn't,  [REDACTED];  It  came  to  him  why  he  hadwanted  them  to  meet,  to  touch  each  other:  he  was  proud  of  knowing  both  of  them,  both  these  women.  Until  Ju-  lia,  he  had  only  known  growing  girls. 