ALL  the  time  she  car-  ried  them  with  her,  in  a  bag  knotted  at  the  z,  neck.  She  had  bay-  ¥.  onetted  the  thin  plas-  tic  with  a  fork,  so  that  2  condensation  would  not  gather  and  begin  torot  the  frail  postcards.  She  knew  what  happened  when  you  covered  seedlings  in  a  flower-  pot:  damp  came  from  nowhere  to  make  its  sudden  climate.  This  had  to  be  avoided.  There  had  been  so  much  wet  back  then,  so  much  rain,  churned  mud,  and  drowned  horses.  There  were  three  cards,  the  last  he  had  sent.  Earlier  ones  had  been  divided  up,  lost  perhaps,  but  she  had  the  last  three,  his  final  evidence.  Each  year,  on  the  day  itself,  she  would  unknot  the  bag  and  study  the  jerky  pencilled  address,  the  formal  signature  (initials  and  sur-  name  only),  the  obedient  crossings-out.  For  many  years  she  had  ached  at  what  the  cards  did  not  say;  but  nowadays  she  found  something  in  their  official  impas-  sivity  which  seemed  proper,  even  if  not  consoling.  Of  course  shedid  not  need  actually  to  look  at  them,  any  more  than  she  needed  the  photograph  to  recall  his  dark  eyes,  sticky-out  ears,  and  the  jaunty  smile  that  said  that  the  fun  would  be  all  over  by  Christmas.  At  any  moment  she  could  bring  the  three  pieces  of  buff  field-  service  card  exactly  to  mind.  The  dates:  Dec.  24,  Jan.  11,  Jan.  17,  written  in  his  hand,  and  confirmed  by  the  postmark  which  added  the  years:  1916,  1917,  1917.  And:  &quot;NOTHING  is  to  be  written  on  this  side  exceptthe  date  and  signa-  ture  of  the  sender.  Sentences  not  re-  quired  may  be  erased.  If  anything  else  is  added  the  postcard  will  be  destroyed.&quot;  And  then  the  brutal  choices:     I  am  quite  well  I  have  been  admitted  into  hospital  {}{  sick  wounded  {}{and  am  going  on  well  and  hope  to  be  discharged  soon  I  am  being  sent  down  to  the  base  I  have  received  your  FICTION  EVERMORE  BY  JULIAN  BARNES  telegram  parcel  Letter  follows  at  first  opportunity  I  have  received  no  letter  from  you  {}{  lately  for  a  longtime  {}{letter  dated  On  each  occasion  he  was  quite  well.  He  had  never  been  admitted  into  hos-  pital.  He  was  not  being  sent  down  to  the  base.  He  had  received  a  letter  of  a  cer-  tain  date.  A  letter  would  follow  at  the  first  opportunity.  He  had  not  received  no  letter.  All  done  with  thick,  pencilled  crossing-out  and  a  single  date.  Then,  besidethe  instruction  &quot;Signature  only,&quot;  the  last  signal  from  her  brother:  &quot;S.  Moss.&quot;  A  large,  looping  &quot;S&quot;  with  a  circling  dot  after  it.  Then  &quot;Moss&quot;  written  without  lifting  from  the  card  what  shealways  imagined  as  astub  of  pencil  end  studi-  ously  licked.  On  the  other  side,  their  mother's  name-Mrs.  Moss,  with  a  grand  &quot;M&quot;  and  a  short  stabbing  line  beneath  the  &quot;rs&quot;-then  the  address.  Another  warn-  ing  down  the  edge,  this  time  in  smaller  letters.  &quot;The  address  only  to  be  written  on  this  side.  If  anything  else  is  added,  the  postcard  will  be  destroyed.&quot;  But  across  the  top  of  her  second  card  Sammy  had  written  something,  and  it  had  not  been  destroyed.  A  neat  line  of  ink  with-  out  the  rough  loopiness  of  his  pencilled  signature:  &quot;50  yas  fromGermans.  Posted  from  Trench.&quot;  In  fifty  years,  one  for  each  underlined  yard,  she  had  not  come  up  with  the  answer.  Why  had  he  writ-  ten  it,  why  in  ink,  why  had  they  allowed  it?  Sam  was  a  cautious  and  responsible  boy,  especially  toward  their  mother,  and  he  would  not  have  risked  a  cancelled  card.  But  he  had  undeniably  written  these  words.  And  in  ink,  too.  Was  it  code  for  something  else?  A  premonition  of  death?  Except  that  Sam  was  not  the  sort  to  have  premonitions.  Perhaps  it  was  simple  excitement,  a  desire  to  im-  press.  Look  how  close  we  are.  50  yds  fromGermans.  Posted  from  Trench.  She  was  glad  he  was  at  Cabaret  Rouge,  with  his  own  headstone.  [REDACTED]  and  identified.  Given  known  and  hon-  ored  burial.  She  had  a  horror  of  Thiep-  val  which  did  not  diminish  in  spite  of  her  dutiful  yearly  visits.  Thiepval,  where  the  dead  had  no  stones  and  were  dimin-  ished  to  their  mere  chiselled  names.  Thiepval's  lost  souls.  You  had  to  make  the  right  preparation  for  them,  for  their  lostness.  So  she  always  began  her  visit  elsewhere,  at  Caterpillar  [REDACTED],  Thistle  Dump,  Quarry,  Blighty  [REDACTED],  Ulster  Tower,  Herbécourt.  No  Morning  Dawns  No  Night  Returns  But  What  We  Think  Of  Thee.  That  was  at  Herbécourt,  a  walled  enclo-  surein  the  middle  of  fields,  room  for  a  few  score  graves,  most  of  them  Austra-  lian,  but  this  was  a  British  lad,  the  one  who  owned  this  inscription.  Was  it  a  vice  to  have  become  such  a  connoisseur  of  grief?  Yet  it  was  true,  she  had  her  fa-  vorite  cemeteries.  Like  Blighty  [REDACTED]  and  Thistle  Dump,  both  half  hidden  from  the  road  in  a  fold  of  valley;  or  Quarry,  a  graveyard  looking  as  if  its  vil-  lage  had  left  it  behind;  or  Devonshire,  that  tiny,  private  patch  for  the  Dev-  onshire  troops  who  died  on  the  first  day  of  the  [REDACTED],  who  had  fought  to  hold  ~  their  trench  and  held  it  still,  You  fol-  lowed  signposts  in  British  racing  green,  then  walked  across  fields  guarded  by  wooden  martyred  Christs  to  these  sanc-  tuaries  of  orderliness,  where  everything  was  accounted  for.  Headstones  were  lined  up  like  dominoes  on  edge;  beneath  them,  their  owners  were  present  and  correct,  listed,  tended.  Creamy  altars  proclaimed  that  &quot;THEIR  NAME  LIV  -  ETH  FOR  EVERMORE.&quot;  And  so  it  did,  on  the  graves,  in  the  books,  in  hearts,  in  memories.  ACH  year,  she  wondered  if  this  would  be  her  last  visit.  Her  life  no  longer  offered  up  to  her  the  confident  plausibility  of  two  decades  more,  one  decade,  five  years.  Instead,  it  was  now  Z  renewed  on  an  annual  basis,  like  her  6  driving  license.  Every  April,  Dr.  Holling  &amp;  had  to  certify  her  fit  for  another  twelve  &amp;  months  behind  the  wheel.  Perhaps  she  and  the  Morris  would  go  kaput  on  the  same  day.  Before,  it  had  been  the  boat  train,  the  express  to  Amiens,  a  local,  a  bus  or  two.  Since  she  had  acquired  the  Morris,  she  had  in  theory  become  freer;  and  yet  her  routine  remained  almost  immutable.  She  would  drive  to  [REDACTED]  and  take  a  night  ferry,  riding  the  Channel  along-  side  burly  lorry  drivers.  It  saved  money,  and  meant  she  was  always  in  [REDACTED]  for  daybreak.  No  Morning  Dawns  ..  .  Sam  must  have  seen  each  daybreak  and  won-  dered  if  that  was  the  date  they  would  put  on  his  stone.  ...  From  Arras,  the  northern  tip  of  that  thinned  triangle  whose  southern  points  were  Albert  and  Péronne,  she  would  be-  gin  her  solemn  and  necessary  tour  of  the  woods  and  fields  in  which,  so  many  de-  cades  before,  the  British  Army  had  counterattacked  to  relieve  the  pressure  on  the  French  at  Verdun.  That  had  been  the  start  of  it,  anyway.  No  doubt  schol-  ars  were  by  now  having  second  thoughts,  but  that  was  what  scholars  were  for;  she  herself  no  longer  had  arguments  to  de-  ploy  about  the  war,  positions  to  hold.  She  valued  only  what  she  had  experi-  enced  at  the  time:  an  outline  of  strategy,  the  conviction  of  gallantry,  and  the  facts  of  mourning.  At  first,  back  then,  the  commonality  of  grief  had  helped:  wives,  mothers,  sis-  ters,  comrades,  an  array  of  brass  hats,  and  a  bugler  amid  gassy  morning  mist  that  the  feeble  November  sun  had  failed  to  burn  away.  Later,  remembering  Sam  had  changed:  it  became  work,  continu-  ity,  instead  of  anguish  and  glory,  there  was  fierce  unreasonableness,  about  both  his  death  and  her  commemoration  of  it.  During  that  period,  she  was  hungry  for  the  solitude  and  the  voluptuous  selfish-  ness  of  grief:  her  Sam,  her  loss,  her  mourning,  and  nobody  else's  similar.  She  admitted  as  much:  there  was  no  shame  to  it.  But  now,  after  half  a  cen-  tury,  her  feelings  had  simply  become  part  of  her.  Her  grief  was  a  caliper,  nec-  essary  and  supporting;  she  could  not  imagine  walking  without  it.  HEN  she  had  finished  with  Her-  bécourt  and  Devonshire,  This-  tle  Dump  and  Caterpillar  [REDACTED],  she  would  come,  always  with  trepidation,  to  the  great  redbrick  memorial  at  Thiepval.  An  arch  of  triumph,  yes,  but  of  what  kind,  she  wondered:  the  triumph  over  death  or  the  triumph  of  death?  &quot;Here  are  recorded  names  of  officers  and  men  of  the  British  armies  who  fell  on  the  [REDACTED]  battlefields  July  1915-February  1918  but  to  whom  the  fortune  of  war  denied  the  known  and  honoured  burial  given  to  their  comrades  in  death.&quot;  Thiepval  Ridge,  Pozigres  Wood,  Albert,  Morval,  Ginchy,  Guillemont,  Ancre,  Ancre  [REDACTED],  High  Wood,  Delville  Wood,  Bapaume,  Bazentin  Ridge,  Miraumont,  Transloy  Ridges,  Flers,  Courcelette.  Each  battle  accorded  its  stone  wreath,  each  regiment  its  section  of  wall:  name  after  name  after  name,  the  Missing  of  the  [REDACTED],  the  official  graffiti  of  death.  This  monument  by  Sir  Edwin  Lutyens  revolted  her,  it  always  had.  She  could  not  bear  the  thought  of  these  lost  men,  exploded  into  unrecog-  nizable  pieces,  engulfed  in  the  mud  fields,  one  moment  fully  there  with  pack  and  gaiters,  bacey  and  rations,  with  their  memories  and  their  hopes,  their  past  and  their  future  crammed  into  them,  and  the  next  moment  only  a  shred  of  khaki  or  a  sliver  of  shinbone  to  prove  they  had  ever  existed.  Or  worse:  some  of  these  names  had  first  been  given  known  and  honored  burial,  their  allotment  of  ground  with  their  name  above  it,  only  for  some  new  battle  with  its  heedless  ar-  tillery  to  tear  up  the  temporary  graveyard  and  bring  a  second,  final  extermination.  Yet  each  of  those  scraps  of  uniform  and  flesh-whether  newly  killed  or  richly  decomposed-had  been  brought  back  here  and  reorganized,  conscripted  into  the  eternal  regiment  of  the  Missing,  kitted  out  and  made  to  dress  to  the  right.  Something  about  the  way  they  had  vanished  and  the  way  they  were  now  reclaimed  was  more  than  she  could  bear:  as  if  an  army  that  had  thrown  them  away  so  lightly  now  chose  to  own  them  again  so  gravely.  She  was  not  sure  wheth-  er  this  was  the  case.  She  claimed  no  un-  derstanding  of  military  matters.  All  she  claimed  was  an  understanding  of  grief.  Her  wariness  of  the  Thiepval  monu-  ment  always  made  her  read  it  skeptically,  with  her  proofreader's  eye.  She  noticed,  for  instance,  that  the  French  translation  of  the  English  inscription  listed-as  the  English  one  did  not-the  exact  number  of  the  Missing:  73,367.  That  was  an-  other  reason  she  did  not  care  to  be  here,  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  arch  look-  ing  down  over  the  puny  Anglo-French  ~  105  cemetery  (French  crosses  to  the  left,  British  stones  to  the  right)  while  the  winddrew  tears  from  an  averted  eye.  73,367:  beyond  a  certain  point,  the  numbers  became  uncountable  and  di-  minished  in  effect.  The  more  dead,  the  less  proportionate  the  pain.  73,367:  even  she,  with  all  her  expertise  in  grief,  could  not  imagine  so  many.  Perhaps  the  British  realized  that  the  number  of  the  Missing  might  continue  to  grow  through  the  years,  that  no  fixed  total  could  be  true;  perhaps  it  was  not  shame  but  a  kind  of  sensible  poetry  that  made  them  decline  to  specify  a  figure.  And  they  were  right:  the  numbers  had  indeed  changed.  The  arch  was  inaugu-  rated  in  1932  by  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED],  and  all  the  names  of  all  the  Missing  had  been  carved  upon  its  surfaces,  but  still,  here  and  there,  out  of  their  proper  place,  hauled  back  tardily  from  oblivion,  were  a  few  soldiers  listed  only  under  the  head-  ing  of  &quot;Addenda.&quot;  She  knew  so  many  of  their  names  by  now:  Dodds  T.,  North-  umberland  Fusiliers;  Malcolm  H.  W.,  The  Cameronians;  Lennox  F.  J.,  Royal  Irish  Rifles;  Lovell  F.  H.  B.,  Royal  War-  wickshire  Regiment;  Orr  R.,  Royal  Inniskillins;  Forbes  R.,  Cameron  High-  landers;  Roberts  J.,  Middlesex  Regi-  ment;  Moxham  A.,  Wiltshire  Regi-  ment;  Humphries  F.  J.,  Middlesex  Regiment;  Hughes  H.  W.,  Worcester-  shire  Regiment;  Bateman  W.  T.,  North-  amptonshire  Regiment;  Tarling  E.,  The  Cameronians;  Richards  W.,  Royal  Field  Artillery;  Rollins  S.,  East  Lancashire  Regiment;  Byrne  L.,  Royal  Irish  Rifles;  Gale  E.  O.,  East  Yorkshire  Regiment;  Walters  J.,  Royal  Fusiliers;  Argar  D.,  Royal  Field  Artillery.  She  felt  closest  to  Rollins  S.,  since  he  was  an  East  Lancashire  like  Sammy;  but  it  was  Malcolm  H.  W.  who  used  to  intrigue  her  most.  Malcolm  H.  W.,  or,  to  give  him  his  full  inscription,  &quot;Malcolm  H.  W.  The  Cameronians  (Sco.  Rif.)  served  as  Wilson  H.&quot;  An  ad-  dendum  and  a  corrigendum  all  in  one.  It  had  pleased  her  to  imagine  his  story.  Was  he  underage?  Did  he  falsify  his  name  to  escape  home,  to  run  away  from  some  girl?  Was  he  wanted  for  a  crime,  like  those  fellows  who  joined  the  French  Foreign  Legion?  She  did  not  really  want  an  answer,  but  she  liked  to  dream  a  little  about  this  manwho  had  lost  first  his  identity  and  then  his  life.  In  later  years  she  turned  against  such  fancifulness.   There  was  no  mystery  really.  Private  H.  W.  Malcolm  becomes  H.  Wilson.  No  doubt  he  was  in  truth  H.  Wilson  Mal-  colm,  and  when  he  volunteered  they  wrote  the  wrong  name  in  the  wrong  col-  umn;  then  they  were  unable  to  change  it.  That  would  make  sense:  man  is  only  a  clerical  error  corrected  by  death.  She  had  never  cared  for  the  main  in-  scription  over  the  central  arch:  AUX  ARMEES  FRANCAISE  ET  BRITANNIQUE  LEMPIRE  BRITANNIQUE  RECON-  -NAISSANT  Each  line  was  centered,  which  was  cor-  rect,  but  there  was  altogether  too  much  white  space  beneath  the  inscription.  She  would  have  inserted  &quot;less  #&quot;  on  the  gal-  ley  proof.  And  each  yearshe  disliked  more  and  more  the  line  break  in  the  word  &quot;reconnaissant.&quot;  There  were  differ-  ent  schools  of  thought  about  this-she  had  argued  with  her  superiors  over  the  years-but  she  insisted  that  breaking  a  word  in  the  middle  of  a  doubled  conso-  nant  was  a  nonsense.  You  broke  a  word  where  the  word  itself  was  perforated.  Look  what  this  military,  architectural,  or  sculptural  nincompoop  had  produced:  a  fracture  that  left  aseparate  word,  naissant,  by  mistake.  Natssant  had  noth-  ing  to  do  with  recornaissant,  nothing  at  all;  worse,  it  introduced  the  notion  of  birth  onto  this  monument  to  death.  She  had  written  to  the  War  Graves  Com-  mission  about  it,  many  years  ago,  and  had  been  told  that  the  proper  procedures  had  been  followed.  They  told  Zer  that!  She  also  disliked  &quot;EVERMORE.&quot;  Their  name  liveth  for  evermore:  here  at  Thiep-  val,  also  at  Cabaret  Rouge,  Caterpillar  [REDACTED],  Combles  Communal  Cemetery  Extension,  and  all  the  larger  memorials.  It  was,  of  course,  the  correct  form,  or  at  least  the  more  regular  form;  but  some-  thing  in  her  preferred  to  see  it  as  two  words.  &quot;EVERMORE&quot;:  it  seemed  more  weighty  like  this,  with  an  equal  bell  toll  on  each  half.  In  any  case,  she  had  a  quarrel  with  her  colleagues  at  the  Dic-  tionary  about  &quot;evermore.&quot;  &quot;Always,  at  all  times,  constantly,  continually&quot;-that  was  Sense  2.  Yes,  it  could  mean  this  in  the  ubiquitous  inscription.  But  she  pre-  ferred  Sense  1:  &quot;For  all  future  time.&quot;  Their  name  liveth  for  all  future  time.  No  morning  dawns,  no  night  returns,  but  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  13,  1995  what  we  think  of  thee.  This  is  what  the  inscription  meant.  But  the  Dictionary  had  marked  Sense  1  as  &quot;Obs.  exc.  arch.&quot;:  &quot;obsolete  except  archaic.&quot;  No,  oh  cer-  tainly  not,  no.  And  not  with  a  last  quo-  tation  as  recent  as  1854.  She  would  have  spoken  to  Mr.  Rothwell,  the  Dictio-  nary's  deputy  editor,  about  this,  or  at  least  pencilled  a  looping  note  on  the  gal-  ley  proof,  but  this  entry  was  not  among  those  being  revised,  and  the  letter  &quot;E&quot;  had  passed  over  her  desk  without  an  op-  portunity  to  make  the  adjustment.  &quot;EVERMORE.&quot;  She  wondered  if  there  was  such  athing  as  collective  memory,  something  more  than  the  sum  of  indi-  vidual  memories.  If  so,  was  it  merely  coterminous  yet  in  some  way  richer;  or  did  it  last  longer?  She  wondered  if  those  too  young  to  have  original  knowledge  could  be  given  memory,  could  have  it  grafted  on.  She  thought  of  this  especially  at  Thiepval.  Though  she  hated  the  place,  when  she  saw  young  families  trail-  ing  across  the  grass  toward  the  redbrick  arc  de  triomphe  it  also  roused  in  her  a  wary  hopefulness.  Christian  cathedrals  could  inspire  religious  faith  by  their  vast  assertiveness;  why,  then,  should  not  Lutyens's  memorial  provoke  some  response  equally  beyond  the  rational?  That  reluctant  child,  whining  about  the  strange  food  its  mother  produced  from  plastic  boxes,  might  receive  memory  here.  Such  an  edifice  assured  the  new-  est  eye  of  the  preéxistence  of  the  pro-  foundest  emotions.  Grief  and  awe  lived  here;  they  could  be  breathed,  absorbed.  And  if  so,  then  this  child  might  in  turn  bring  its  child,  and  so  on,  from  genera-  tion  to  generation,  &quot;EVERMORE.&quot;  Not  just  to  count  the  Missing,  but  to  under-  stand  what  those  from  whom  they  had  gone  missing  knew,  and  to  feel  her  loss  afresh.  PERHAPS  this  was  one  reason  she  had  married  Denis.  Of  course,  she  should  never  have  done  so.  And  in  a  way  she  never  had,  for  there  had  been  no  carnal  connection:  she  unwilling,  he  incapable.  The  marriage  had  lasted  two  years,  and  his  uncomprehending  eyes  when  she  de-  livered  him  back  were  impossible  to  for-  get.  All  she  could  say  in  defense  was  that  it  was  the  only  time  she  had  behaved  with  such  pure  selfishness:  she  had  mar-  ried  him  for  her  own  reasons,  and  dis-  carded  him  for  her  own  reasons.  Some  might  say  that  the  rest  of  her  life  had  EVERMORE  been  selfish,  too,  devoted  as  it  was  en-  tirely  to  commemoration;  but  this  was  a  selfishness  that  hurt  nobody.  Poor  Denis.  He  was  still  handsome  when  he  came  back,  though  his  hair  grew  white  on  one  side  and  he  dribbled.  When  the  fits  came  on,  she  knelt  on  his  chest  and  held  his  tongue  down  with  a  stub  of  pencil.  Every  night,  he  roamed  restlessly  through  his  sleep,  muttered  and  roared,  fell  silent  for  a  while,  and  then  with  parade-ground  precision  would  shout,  &quot;Hip!  Hip!  Hip!&quot;  When  she  woke  him,  he  could  never  remember  what  had  been  happening.  He  had  guilt  and  pain,  but  no  specific  memory  of  what  he  felt  guilty  about.  She  knew:  Denis  had  been  hit  by  shrapnel  and  taken  back  down  the  line  to  hospital  without  a  farewell  to  his  best  pal,  Jewy  Moss,  leaving  Sammy  to  be  killed  during  the  next  day's  Hun  bombardment.  After  two  years  of  this  marriage,  two  years  of  watching  Denis  vigorously  brush  his  patch  of  white  hair  to  make  it  go  away,  she  had  returned  him  to  his  sisters.  From  now  on,  she  told  them,  they  should  look  after  Denis  and  she  would  look  after  Sam.  The  sis-  ters  had  gazed  at  her  in  silent  astonish,  ment.  Behind  them,  in  the  hall,  Denis,  his  chin  wet  and  his  brown  eyes  uncom-  prehending,  stood  with  an  awkward  pa-  tience  that  implied  that  this  latest  event  was  nothing  special  in  itself,  merely  one  of  a  number  of  things  he  failed  to  grasp,  and  that  there  would  surely  be  much  more  to  come,  all  down  the  rest  of  his  life,  which  would  also  escape  him.  SHE  had  taken  the  job  on  the  Dictio-  nary  a  month  later.  She  worked  alone  in  a  damp  basement,  ata  desk  across  which  curled  long  sheets  of  gal-  ley  proofs.  Condensation  beaded  the  window.  She  was  armed  with  a  brass  table  lamp  and  a  pencil  that  she  sharp-  ened  until  it  was  too  short  to  fit  in  the  hand.  Her  script  was  large  and  loose,  somewhat  like  Sammy's;  she  deleted  and  inserted,  just  as  he  had  done  on  his  field-service  postcards.  &quot;Nothing  is  to  be  written  on  this  side  of  the  galley  proof.  If  anything  else  is  added  the  galley  proof  will  be  destroyed.&quot;  No,  she  did  not  have  to  worry;,  she  made  her  marks  with  impu-  nity.  She  spotted  colons  that  were  italic  instead  of  roman,  brackets  that  were  square  instead  of  round,  inconsistent  ab-  breviations,  misleading  cross-references.  Occasionally  she  made  suggestions.  She     might  observe,  in  looping  pencil,  that  such  and  such  a  word  was  in  her  opin-  ion  &quot;vulgar&quot;  rather  than  &quot;colloquial,&quot;  ot  that  the  sense  illustrated  was  &quot;figurative&quot;  rather  than  She  passed  on  her  galley  proofs  to  Mr.  Rothwell,  but  never  inquired  whether  her  annotations  were  finally  acted  upon.  Mr.  Rothwell,  a  bearded,  taciturn,  and  pacific  man,  val-  ued  her  meticulous  eye,  her  sure  grasp  of  the  Dictionary's  conventions,  and  her  willingness  to  take  work  home  if  a  fas-  cicle  was  shortly  going  to  press.  He  remarked  to  himself  and  to  others  that  she  had  a  strangely  disputatious  attitude  over  words  labelled  obsolete.  Often  she  would  propose  rather  than  &quot;Obs.&quot;  as  the  correct  marking.  Perhaps  this  had  something  to  do  with  age,  Mr.  Rothwell  thought;  younger  folk  were  perhaps  more  willing  to  accept  that  a  word  had  had  its  day.  In  fact,  Mr.  Rothwell  was  only  five  years  younger  than  she;  but  Miss  Moss-  as  she  had  reverted  to  being  after  her  disposal  of  Denis-had  aged  quickly,  al-  most  as  a  matter  of  will.  The  years  passed  and  she  grew  stout,  her  hair  flew  a  little  more  wildly  away  from  her  clips,  and  her  spectacle  lenses  became  thicker.  Her  stockings  had  a  dense,  antique  look  to  them,  and  she  never  took  her  raincoat  to  the  dry  cleaner.  Younger  lexicogra-  phers  entering  her  office,  where  a  num-  ber  of  back  files  were  stored,  wondered  if  the  faint  smell  of  rabbit  hutch  came  from  the  walls,  the  old  Dictionary  slips,  Miss  Moss's  raincoat,  or  Miss  Moss  herself.  None  of  this  mattered  to  Mr.  Rothwell,  who  saw  only  the  precision  of  her  work.  Though  entitled  by  the  Press  to  an  annual  holiday  of  fifteen  working  days,  she  never  took  more  than  a  single  week.  At  first  this  holiday  coincided  with  the  eleventh  hour  of  the  eleventh  day  of  the  eleventh  month;  Mr.  Rothwell  had  the  delicacy  not  to  ask  for  details.  In  later  years,  however,  she  would  take  her  week  in  other  months,  late  spring  or  early  autumn.  When  her  parents  died  and  she  inherited  a  small  amount  of  money,  she  surprised  Mr.  Rothwell  by  arriving  for  work  one  day  in  a  small  gray  Morris  with  red-leather  seats.  It  sported  a  yellow  metal  [REDACTED]  badge  on  the  front  and  a  G.B.  plate  on  the  back.  At  the  age  of  fifty-three  she  had  passed  her  driving  test  the  first  time,  and  maneuvered  her  car  with  a  precision  bordering  on  élan.  In  [REDACTED]  she  always  slept  in  the  car.  It  saved  money,  but  mainly  it  helped  her  be  alone  with  herself  and  Sam.  The  vil-  lages  in  that  narrow  triangle  south  of  Arras  became  accustomed  to  the  sight  of  an  aging  British  car  the  color  of  gun-  metal  drawn  up  beside  the  war  memo-  rial;  inside,  an  elderly  lady  wrapped  in  a  travelling  rug  would  be  asleep  in  the  passenger  seat.  She  never  locked  the  car  at  night,  for  it  seemed  impertinent,  dis-  respectful  on  her  part  to  feel  any  fear.      She  slept  while  the  villages  slept,  and  would  wake  as  a  drenched  cow  on  its  way  to  milking  softly  shouldered  a  wing  of  the  parked  Morris.  Every  so  often  she  would  be  invited  in  by  a  villager,  but  she  preferred  not  to  accept  hospitality.  Her  behavior  was  not  regarded  as  peculiar,  and  cafés  in  the  region  knew  to  serve  her  the  a  Fanglaise  without  her  having  to  ask.  FTER  she  had  finished  with  Thiep-  val,  with  Thistle  Dump  and  Cat-  erpillar  [REDACTED],  she  would  drive  up  through  Arras  and  take  the  D-937  to-  ward  Béthune.  Ahead  lay  Vimy,Caba-  ret  Rouge,  Notre-Dame-de-Lorette.  But  before  them  there  was  always  one  last  visit  to  be  paid:  to  Maison  Blanche.  Such  peaceful  names  they  mostly  had.  But  here  at  Maison  Blanche  were  forty-  four  thousand  German  dead,  forty-four  thousand  Huns  laid  out  beneath  their  thin  black  crosses,  a  sight  as  orderly  as  you  would  expect  from  the  Huns,  though  not  as  splendid  as  the  British  graves.  She  lingered  there,  reading  a  few  names  at  random,  idly  wondering,  when  she  found  a  date  just  a  little  later  than  Janu-  ary  21,  1917,  if  this  could  be  the  Hun  that  had  killed  her  Sammy.  Was  this  the  manwho  squeezed  the  trigger,  fed  the  machine  gun,  blocked  his  ears  as  the  howitzer  roared?  And  see  how  shorta  time  he  had  lasted  afterward:  two  days,  a  week,  a  month  or  soin  the  mud  before  being  lined  up  in  known  and  honored  burial,  facing  out  once  more  toward  her  Sammy,  though  separated  now  not  by  barbed  wire  and  &quot;50  yds&quot;  but  by  a  stretch  of  road.  She  felt  no  rancor  toward  these  Huns;  time  had  washed  from  her  any  anger  at  the  man,  the  regiment,  the  Hun  army,  the  nation  that  had  taken  Sam's  life.  Her  resentment  was  against  those  who  had  come  later.  She  hated  the  sec-  ond  war  for  all  it  had  done  to  the  mem-  ory  of  the  first.  And  she  hated  the  way  in  which  the  first  war  was  held  respon-  sible  for  the  second,  asif  Sam,  Denis,  and  all  43616e616461Lancashires  who  fell  were  partly  the  cause  of  that  business.  Sam  had  done  what  he  could-he  had  served  and  died-and  was  punished  all  too  quickly  with  becoming  subordinate  in  memory.  Time  did  not  behave  ratio-  nally.  Fifty  years  back  to  the  [REDACTED];  a  hundred  beyond  that  to  Waterloo;  four  hundred  more  to  Agincourt,  or  Azincourt,  as  the  French  preferred.  Yet these  distances  had  now  been  squeezed  closer  to  one  another.  She  blamed  it  on  1939-45.  She  knew  to  keep  away  from  those  parts  of  [REDACTED]  where  the  second  war  happened,  or  at  least  where  it  was  re-  membered.  In  the  early  years  of  the  Morris,  she  had  sometimes  made  the  mistake  of  imagining  herself  on  holiday,  of  being  a  tourist.  You  might  thought-  lessly  stop  in  a  lay-by,  or  be  taking  a  stroll  down  a  back  lane  in  some  tranquil,  heat-burdened  part  of  the  country,  when  a  neat  tablet  inserted  in  a  dry  wall  would  assault  you.  It  would  commemorate  Monsieur  Un  Tel,  &quot;Zéchement  assassine  par  les  Allemands,&quot;  or  &quot;tue,&quot;  or  &quot;fusillé,&quot;  and  then  an  insulting  modern  date:  ©1943,&quot;  ©1944,&quot;  &quot;1945.&quot;  They  blocked  the  view,  these  deaths  and  these  dates;  they  demanded  attention  by  their  re-  cency.  She  refused,  she  refused.  When  she  stumbled  like  this  upon  the  second  war,  she  would  hurry  to  the  nearest  village  for  consolation.  She  al-  ways  knew  where  to  look:  next  to  the  church,  the  mairie,  the  railway  station;  at  afork  in  the  road;  on  a  dusty  square  with  cruelly  pollarded  lime  trees  and  a  few  rusting  café  tables.  There  she  would  find  her  damp-stained  memorial,  topped  by  its  heroic  poik,,  grieving  widow,  tri-  umphant  Marianne,  rowdy  cockerel.  Not  that  the  story  she  read  on  the  plinth  needed  any  illustration.  Rival  lists  of  dead,  whose  imbalance  conferred  the  terrible  primacy  of  the  Great  g  War:  67  who  had  died  then  as  against  9  in  the  second  war,  83  against  12,  40  against  5,  27  .  against  2.  Here  was  the  eternal  )  corroboration  she  sought,  the  historical  corrigendum.  She  would  touch  the  names  cut  into  stone,  their  gilding  washed  away  jl  on  the  weather  side.  Her  eye  would  check  down  the  bigger  list,  snag-  ging  at  a  name  repeated  twice,  thrice,  four,  five,  six  times:  one  entire  male  gen-  eration  of  a  family  taken  away  to  known  and  honored  burial.  In  the  bossy  statis-  tics  of  death  she  would  find  the  comfort  she  needed.  She  would  spend  the  last  night  at  Aix-Noulette  (101  vs.  7);  at  Souchez  (48  vs.6),  where  she  remembered  Plouvier,  Maxime,  Sergent,  killed  on  December  17,  1916,  the  last  of  his  village  to  die  before  her  Sam;  at  Carency  (19  vs.  1);  at  Ablain-Saint-Nazaire  (66  vs.  9),  eight  of  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  13,  1995  whose  male  Lherbiers  had  died,  four  on  the  champ  d'honneur,three  as  victimes  civiles,  one  a  civil  fusillé  par  Pennemi.  Then,  the  next  morning,  cocked  with  grief,  she  would  set  off  for  Cabaret  Rouge  while  dew  was  still  on  the  grass.  There  was  comfort  in  solitude  and  damp  knees.  She  no  longer  talked  to  Sam;  everything  had  been  said  decades  ago.  The  heart  had  been  expressed,  the  apologies  made,  the  secrets  given.  She  no  longer  wept,  either;  that,  too,  had  stopped.  But  the  hours  she  spent  with  him  at  Cabaret  Rouge  were  the  most  vital  of  her  life.  They  always  had  been.  The  D-937  dida  reminding  elbow  at  Cabaret  Rouge,  making  sure  you  slowed  out  of  respect,  drawing  your  attention  to  Brigadier  Sir  Frank  Higginson's  hand-  some  domed  portico,  which  served  as  both  entrance  gate  and  memorial  arch.  From  the  portico,  the  burial  ground  dropped  away  at  first,  then  sloped  up  again  toward  the  cross  on  which  hung  not  Christ  but  a  metal  sword.  Symmet-  rical,  amphitheatrical,  Cabaret  Rouge  held  6,727  British  soldiers,  sailors,  ma-  rines,  and  airmen;  749  Canadians;  116  Australians;  43  [REDACTED]  Africans;  15  In-  dians;  7  New  4e6577205a65616c616e64ers;  2  members  of  the  Royal  Guernsey  Light  Infantry;  1  member  ofan  unknown  unit;  and4  Germans.  It  also  contained  or,  more  exactly,  had  at  one  point  had  scattered  over  it,  the  ashes  of  Brigadier  Sir  Frank  Higginson,  Secretary  to  the  Im-  perial  War  Graves  Commis-  sion,  who  died  in  1958,  at  the  age  of  sixty-eight.  That  showed  true  loyalty  and  remembrance.  His  widow,  Lady  Violet  Linds-  ley  Higginson,  died  four  years  later,  and  her  ashes  had  been  scattered  here,  too.  Fortunate  Lady  Higginson.  Why  should  the  wife  of  a  brigadier  who,  whatever  he  had  done  in  the  Great  War,  had  not  died,  be  allowed  such  enviable  and  meri-  torious  burial,  and  yet  the  sister  of  one  of  those  soldiers  whom  the  fortune  of  war  had  led  to  known  and  honored  burial  be  denied  such  solace?  The  Com-  mission  had  twice  denied  her  request,  saying  that  a  military  cemetery  did  not  receive  civilian  ashes.  The  third  time  she  wrote  they  were  less  polite,  referring  her  brusquely  to  their  earlier  correspondence.  There  had  been  incidents  down  the  years.  They  had  stopped  her  coming  for  the  eleventh  hour  of  the  eleventh  day  of  the  eleventh  month  by  refusing  her  permission  to  sleep  the  night  beside  his  grave.  They  said  they  did  not  have  camp-  ing  facilities;  they  affected  to  sympathize,  but  what  if  everybody  else  wanted  to  do  the  same?  She  replied  that  it  was  quite  plain  that  no  one  else  wanted  to  do  the  same  but  that  if  they  did  then  such  ade-  sire  should  be  respected.  After  some  years,  however,  sheceased  to  miss  the  official  ceremony:  it  seemed  to  her  full  of  people  who  remembered  improperly,  impurely.  There  had  been  problems  with  the  planting.  The  grass  at  the  cemetery  was  French  grass,  and  it  seemed  to  her  of  the  coarser  type,  inappropriate  for  British  soldiers  to  lie  beneath.  Her  campaign  over  this  with  the  Commission  led  no-  where.  So  one  spring  she  took  along  a  small  spade  and  a  square  yard  of  English  turf  kept  damp  in  a  plastic  bag.  After  dark,  she  dug  out  the  offending  French  grass  and  laid  down  the  softer  English  turf,  patting  it  into  place,  then  stamp-  ing  it  in.  She  was  pleased  with  her  work,  and  the  next  year,  as  she  approached  the  grave,  could  see  no  indication  of  the  mending  she  had  done.  But  when  she  knelt  she  realized  that  her  work  had  been  undone:  the  French  grass  was  back  again.  The  same  had  happened  when  she  had  surreptitiously  planted  her  bulbs.  Sam  liked  tulips,  yellow  ones  especially,  and  one  autumn  she  had  pushed  half  a  dozen  bulbs  into  the  earth.  But  the  fol-  lowing  spring,  when  she  returned,  there  were  only  dusty  red  geraniums  in  front  of  his  stone.  There  had  also  been  the  desecration.  Not  so  very  long  ago.  Ar-  riving  shortly  after  dawn,  she  found  something  on  the  grass  which  at  first  she  put  down  to  a  dog.  But  when  she  saw  the  same  in  front  of  1685  Private  W.  A.  Andrade  4th  Bn.  [REDACTED]  Regt.  R.  Fus.  15th  March  1915,  and  in  front  of  675  Private  Leon  Emanuel  Levy  The  Cameronians  (Sco.  Rif.)  16th  August  1916  aged  21  /  And  the  Soul  Returneth  to  God  Who  Gave  It-Mother,  she  judged  it  most  unlikely  that  a  dog,  or  three  dogs,  had  managed  to  find  the  only  three  Jewish  graves  in  the  cemetery.  She  gave  the  caretaker  the  rough  edge  of  her  tongue.  He  admitted  that  such  desecrations  had  occurred  before,  also  that  paint  had  been  sprayed,  but  he  al-  ways  tried  to  arrive  before  anyone  else  and  remove  the  signs.  She  told  him  that  he  might  be  honest  but  he  was  clearly idle.  She  blamed  the  second  war.  She  tried  not  to  think  about  it  again.  For  her,  now,  the  view  back  to  1917  was  uncluttered:  the  decades  were  mown  grass,  and  at  their  end  was  a  row  of  white  headstones,  domino-thin.  1358  Private  Samuel  M.  Moss  East  Lancashire  Regt.  21st  January  1917,  and  in  the  middle  the  Star  of  David.  Some  graves  in  Cabaret  Rouge  were  anonymous,  with  no  iden-  tifying  words  or  symbols;  some  had  in-  scriptions,  regimental  badges,  Irish  harps,  springboks,  maple  leaves,  New  [REDACTED]  ferns.  Most  had  Christian  crosses;  only  three  displayed  the  Star  of  David.  Private  Andrade,  Private  Levy,  and  Private  Moss.  A  British  soldier  buried  beneath  the  Star  of  David:  she  kept  her  eyes  on  that.  Sam  had  written  from  training  camp  that  the  fellows  chaffed  him,  but  he  had  al-  ways  been  Jewy  Moss  at  school,  too,  and  they  were  good  fellows,  most  of  them,  as  good  inside  the  barracks  as  outside,  anyway.  They  made  the  same  remarks  he'd  heard  before,  but  Jewy  Moss  was  a  British  soldier,  good  enough  to  fight  and  die  with  his  comrades,  which  is  what  he  had  done,  and  what  he  was  remembered  for.  She  pushed  away  the  second  war,  which  muddled  things.  He  was  a  British  soldier,  East  Lancashire  Regiment,  bur-  ied  at  Cabaret  Rouge  beneath  the  Star  of  David.  She  wondered  when  they  would  plow  them  up,  Herbécourt,  Devonshire,  Quarry,  Blighty  [REDACTED],  Ulster  Tower,  Thistle  Dump,  and  Caterpillar  [REDACTED];  Maison  Blanche  and  Cabaret  Rouge.  They  said  they  never  would.  This  land,  she  read  everywhere,  was  the  &quot;free  gift  of  the  French  people  for  the  perpetual  resting  place  of  those  who  are  laid  there  .  ..&quot;  and  so  on.  &quot;EVERMORE,&quot;  they  said,  and  she  wanted  to  hear:  for  all  future  time.  'The  War  Graves  Commission,  her  suc-  cessive  Members  of  Parliament,  the  Foreign  Office,  the  commanding  officer  of  Sammy's  regiment  all  told  her  the  same.  She  didn't  believe  them.  Soon-  in  fifty  years  or  so-everyone  who  had  served  in  the  Great  War  would  be  dead;  and  at  some  point  after  that,  every-  one  who  had  known  anyone  who  had  served  would  also  be  dead.  What  if  memory  grafting  did  not  work,  or  the  memories  themselves  were  deemed  shameful?  First,  she  guessed,  those  little  stone  tablets  in  the  back  lanes  would  be  chiselled  out,  since  the  French  and  the  Germans  had  officially  stopped  hating  one  another  years  ago,  and  it  would  not  do  for  German  tourists  to  be  accused  of  the  cowardly  assassinations  perpetrated  by  their  ancestors.  Then  the  war  memo-  rials  would  come  down,  with  their  im-  portant  statistics.  A  few  might  be  held  to  have  architectural  interest;  but  some  new,  cheerful  generation  would  find  them  morbid,  and  dream  up  better  things  to  enliven  the  villages.  And,  after  that,  it  would  be  time  to  plow  up  the  cemeter-  ies,  to  put  them  back  to  good  agricultural  use:  they  had  lain  fallow  for  too  long.  Priests  and  politicians  would  make  it  all  right,  and  the  farmers  would  get  their  land  back,  fertilized  with  blood  and  bone.  The  Thiepval  arch  might  be  preserved,  but  would  they  keep  Brigadier  Sir  Frank  Higginson's  domed  portico?  That  elbow  in  the  D-937  would  be  declared  a  traffic  hazard;  allit  needed  was  one  drunken  ca-  sualty  for  the  road  to  be  made  straight  again  after  all  these  years.  Then  the  great  forgetting  could  begin,  the  fading  into  the  landscape.  The  war  would  be  levelled  to  a  couple  of  museums,  a  set  of  demon-  stration  trenches,  and  a  few  names,  shorthand  for  pointless  sacrifice.  Might  there  be  one  last,  fiery  glow  of  remembering?  In  her  own  case,  it  would  not  be  long  before  her  annual  renew-  als  ceased,  beforethe  clerical  error  of  her  life  was  corrected;  yet  even  as  she  pro-  nounced  herself  an  antique,  her  memo-  ries  seemed  to  sharpen.  If  this  happened  to  the  individual,  could  it  not  also  hap-  pen  on  a  national  scale?  Might  there  not  be,  at  some  point  in  the  first  decades  of  the  twenty-first  century,  one  final  mo-  ment,  lit  by  evening  sun,  before  the  whole  thing  was  handed  over  to  the  ar-  chivists?  Might  there  not  be  a  great  looking-back  down  the  mown  grass  of  the  decades,  might  not  a  gap  in  the  trees  discover  the  curving  ranks  of  slender  headstones,  white  tablets  holding  up  to  the  eye  their  bright  names  and  terrify,  ing  dates,  their  harps  and  springboks,  maple  leaves  and  ferns,  their  Christian  crosses  and  their  Stars  of  David?  Then,  in  the  space  of  a  wet  blink,  the  gap  in  the  trees  would  close  and  the  mown  grass  disappear,  a  violent  indigo  cloud  would  cover  the  sun,  and  history,  gross  history,  daily  history,  would  forget.  Is  this  how  it  would  be? 