 OLD  LOVE  AFFAIRS  ILDLY  upset  by  a  phone  call,  Lucretia  Baine,  who  is  al-  most  old  but  lively,  comes  back  into  her  living  room  and  stares  for  a  moment  into  the  large  drift,  wood-framed  mirror  there,  as  though  to  check  that  she  isstill  herself.  Reas-  sured,  she  smiles  briefly,  but  continues  to  look  at  the  mirror.  In  the  soft,  kindly  lamplight-this  is  an  early  evening,  in  October-she  is  beautiful,  still,  even  to  her  own  harshly  critical  (large,  green)  eyes.  But  she  knows  perfectly  well  how  she  looks  in  her  cruelly  accurate  bath-  room  mirror,  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Now,  though,  she  looks  all  right,  just  upset;  on  the  other  hand,  she  may  look  better  than  usual.  A  little  more  color?  The  disturbing  call  did  not  involve  bad  news;  it  was  simply  that  Lucretia  momentarily  confused  two  men:  Si-  mon,  whom  she  is  crazy  about  (hope-  lessly,  irreversibly,  it  seems),  with  Burt,  who  in  his  way  is  crazy  about  her.  He  loves  Lucretia  permanently,  he  says.  Burt  called,  and  justfor  an  instant  she  thought  he  was  Simon.  Although  she  would  have  thought  that  two  men  more  unlike  did  not  exist,  including  their  voices:  Burt's  deep  and  friendly,  Mid-  western,  and  Simon's  very  New  En-  gland,  [REDACTED],  slightly  raspy.  &quot;Crazy  about.&quot;  Like  many  people,  Lucretia  tends  to  think  in  the  argot  of  her  youth,  in  her  case  the  forties.  How-  ever,  in  this  instance,  the  instance  of  Si-  mon,  the  phrase  seems  accurate.  At  her  age,  to  harbor  such  feelings  is  crazy  in-  deed,  and  so,  for  that  matter,  are  Burt's  feelings  for  her,  at  his  advanced  age.  Lucretia  sighs.  If  only  Simon  were  gay  and  inlove  withBurt  the  circle  would  be  perfect,  Shakespearean,  she  thinks.  She  sighs  again,  at  what  seems  the  silliness  of  it  all.  Simon  is  not  gay,  and  the  two  men  have  never  met.  And  she  confused  their  voices  only  because  she  was  expecting  a  call  from  Simon,  sort  of.      She  did  not  do  anything  so  crude  as  calling  Burt  &quot;Simon,&quot;  she  was  only  a  little  cool  at  the  onset  of  the  conversa-  tion,  cool  with  disappointment.  But  then  poor  Burt  was  probably  used  to  cool,  from  her.  This  living  room  of  Lucretia's,  though  comfortable  and  exceptionally  pretty,  too  often  called  &quot;charming,&quot;  in  a  sense  resembles  an  archeological  dig;  there  are  layers,  and  remains.  Traces  of  former  husbands,  three  of  them,  two  divorced,  one  dead.  Tokens  and  pres-  ents  from  former  lovers,  quite  a  few  of  those,  and  from  good  friends,  even  more.  And  clear  signs  of  a  long  and  steadfast  career:  Lucretia  is  a  reporter,  a  dedicated  newspaperwoman.  She  has  always  worked  in  that  way.  The  drift,  wood  mirror  is,  in  fact,  a  present  from  her  longtime  editor,  now  an  elderly  gentleman,  who  is  gay--a  much  loved  friend.  Lucretia  is  less  sure  how  she  feels  about  the  mirror.  Thus  the  room,  which  has  never  ex-  actly  been  &quot;decorated,&quot;  is  full  of  tro-  phies,  of  carefully,  tastefully  selected  objets,  and  of  whimsically,  impulsively  bought  things.  A  jumble  of  books  and  pictures,  lots  of  framed  photographs;  anyone  can  see  that  Lucretia,  young,  was  quite  ravishing,  and  that  most  of  the  men  she  knew  were  tall  and  good-  looking.  Pots  and  vases  of  flowers  stand  about,  more  carefully  arranged  than  they  look  to  be:  a  great  clump  of  grow-  ing  gold  chrysanthemums,  smelling  of  earth,  and  of  fall-and  a  slender  silver  vase  of  yellow  roses,  unscented  but  beautiful,  chosen  by  Lucretia,  for  her-  self.  She  sometimes  wonders  how  she  could  feel  lonely  in  such  a  room,  and,  for  that  matter,  in  such  ahouse,  but  sometimes  she  does.  Souvenirs,  then,  of  love  and  friend-  ship,  but  also  of  work.  Lucretia  has  done  a  lot  of  travel  writing  for  many  years,  as  the  assistant  travel  editor  of  her  paper;  shelves  of  travel  books,  as  well  as  atlases  and  stacks  of  maps  attest  to  those  years,  along  with  one  wall's  collection  of  masks,  from  [REDACTED]  and  from  [REDACTED],  from  496e646961  and  Africa  and  [REDACTED].  For  idle  pleasure  Lucre-  tia  sometimes  picks  up  a  map  of  4974616c79,  say,  and  goes  over  it  carefully,  naming  out  favorite  towns  to  herself:  Orvieto,  Todi,  Arezzo,  Fiesole,  as  another  per-  son  might  read  a  familiar  novel,  happy  to  recognize  Barsetshire  again.  Shewas  working  throughout  all  those  marriages  and  love  affairs,  which  no  doubt  kept  her  sane  (she  herself  is  sure  of  this),  but  these  days  her  work  creates  certain  problems  in  &quot;relation-  ships&quot;  when  the  men  involved  are  re-  tired,  as  Burt  is-Burt  especially,  de-  manding,  intrusive  (more  &quot;in  love&quot;),  does  not  like  to  hear  aboutLucre-  tia's  deadlines,  her  work  obligations.  He  has  often  suggested  that  she  retire.  What  he  means  is,  marry  him.  But  Lu-  cretia  plans  to  postpone  retirement  for  as  long  as  she  can,  and  in  the  meantime  to  take  whatever  assignments  the  paper  offers.  She  has  gone  back  lately  to  do-  ing  more  interviews  than  travel  writing,  although  last  December  she  wrote  a  long  piece  about  Christmas  in  4974616c79,  lights  in  the  Piazza  San  Marco,  proces-  sions  of  gondolas.  Extremely  handsome  gondoliers.  ]'_UJCRETIA\xe2\x80\x99S  first  marriage  took  place  when  she  was  eighteen.  There  should  be  a  law  against  marriages  un-  der  thirty,  she  has  sometimes  thought,  and  said.  Surely  under  twenty,  and  probably  twenty-five.  Jim,  the  young  husband,  was  in  law  school;  her  second,  Tommy,  a  reporter.  Years  later,  speak-  ing  of  marriage,  she  also  said,  &quot;I  mar-  ried  the  first  two  times  for  sex.  How  dumb  can  you  get?&quot;  Sometimes  adding,  &quot;Tommy  was  dear-well,  really  they  both  were,  Tommy  and  Jim.  But  Tommy  drank  so  much,  and  besides,  I  really  needed  to  get  out  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  She  divorced  poor,  dear  Tommy  in  Reno,  and  continued  to  San  Fran-  cisco,  where,  with  some  money  from  a\xc2\xa5  grandmother  who  providentially  died  \xc2\xa70  around  that  time,  she  bought  a  small  \xc2\xa3  3  house  in  an  alley  on  Telegraph  Hill-  &amp;  " b"with  such  aview!  And  she  got  a  job  on  the  Examiner.  There  then  followed  for  Lucretia  many  happy  years.  Telegraph  Hill  and,  indeed,  the  whole  city  were  seemingly  full  of  the  relatively  young  and  unmar-  ried.  There  was  great  cheap  Italian  food  andwine  in  North  Beach  restaurants,  and  great  cheap  Chinese  along  Grant  Avenue,  Chinatown,  with  wonderful  jazz  at  the  Blackhawk,  the  Jazz  Work-  shop.  And  good  bars  all  over  the  place.  Not  to  mention  the  prettily  roman-  tic  city  itself,  a  perfect  backdrop.  Lu-  cretia  had  quite  a  few  very  pleasant  but  not  serious  love  affairs;  to  herself,  she  thought,  Well,  good,  I'm  beginning  to  take  sex  not  quite  so  seriously,  it's  just  very  good,  very  affectionate  fun.  Sometimes,  though,  she  was  assailed  by  much  darker  thoughts,  one  of  which  persistently  was:  I'm  really  tooold  for  all  this  silliness,  my  friends  are  doing  serious  things  like  bringing  up  children.  (In  those  days  thirty-five  was  viewed  as  tooold  for  almost  anything,  including  love  affairs  and  certainly  for  children).  Also,  the  fact  was  that  she  still  did  take  sex  seriously.  Her  affairs  were  never  so  casual  as  she  tried  to  make  herself  be-  lieve;  she  sometimes  suffered  extreme  pangs  of  missing  whoeverwas  just  gone.  Pangs  of  longing  to  hear  from  someone  who  did  not  phone.  (In  those  days  women  were  not  supposed  to  tele-  phone  men.)  In  those  blacker  moods  Lucretia  tended  to  forget  her  own  considerable  professional  success.  She  was  extremely  good  at  her  work;  she  had  won  cita-  tions  and  prizes,  along  with  the  occa-  sional  raise.  And  she  liked  it  very  much,  especially  the  interviews,  which  she  was  more  and  more  frequently  assigned.  She  liked  the  work  and  mostly  she  liked  her  fellow-reporters.  But  as  she  waited  for  her  phone  to  ring,  waited  for  him  to  call,  she  forgot  all  that.  Jason  was  first  described  by  Lucretia  to  her  friends  as  &quot;this  terribly  nice  man  who  lives  next  door.&quot;  A  tall,  skinny  young  (herage)  architect  from  Tennes-  see,  Jason  had  a  serious  girlfriend,  Sally,  who  was  not  around  much.  Jason  and  Lucretia  went  to  movies  at  the  Palace  and  to  the  New  Pisa  for  long,  half-  drunken  dinners  together;  when  she  broke  up  with  whomever,  Jason  was  al-  ways  comforting.  And  she  was  nice  to  him,  making  homey  meals  and  listen-  ing  a  lot  when  he  broke  up  with  Sally,  although  by  then  Lucretia  was  seeing  someone  else.  By  the  time  they  fell  in  love  and  de-  cided  to  marry,  Jason  and  Lucretia  had  been  friends  for  several  years.  So  some-  times  she  wondered,  Why  didn't  I  know  all  along  how  I  felt  about  Jason?  Why  did  we  waste  all  that  time?  In  both  earlier  marriages,  to  Jim  and  then  to  Tommy,  sex  had  been  the  greatest  bond.  Especially  with  Tommy,  a  true  sexual  explorer,  an  inspired  and  tender  lover-when  sober.  But  then,  he  was  so  often  drunk.  With  Jason,  af-  ter  the  early  raptures  of  mutual  dis-  covery,  when  in  effect  they  both  said,  &quot;You've  been  here  all  along,  and  I  didn't  know?&quot;-after  some  months  of  that,  the  sexual  energy  between  them  seemed  to  taperoff  to  a  twice-a-week  nice  treat.  Lucretia  often  felt  that  she  was  more  enthusiastic  than  Jason  was,  that  per-  haps  she  was  basically  a  sexier  person,  which  she  found  a  little  embarrassing,  although  she  still  liked  Jason  better  than  anyone  in  the  world.  And  for  the  three  years  of  their  marriage  they  were  mostly  happy,  bothbusy  with  sepa-  rate  work,  and  enjoying  vacation  trips  together.  Then,  cruelly,  Jason,  who  was  still  a  relatively  young  man,  was  diagnosed  with  colon  cancer.  Invasive.  Inoperable.  But  he  took  a  longtime  dying,  poor  darling;  near  the  end  Lucretia  moved  him  down  to  the  living  room,  where  he  could  see  the  friends  he  still  wanted  to  see,  and  she  could  more  easily  bring  him  trays.  He  complained  sometimes  about  sleeping  down  there  alone,  and  so  Lucretia  would  cuddle  against  him,  there  on  the  sofa.  Unhappily,  that  is  what  she  most  clearly  recalled  of  Jason,  his  dying.  How  pitifully  thin  he  was,  his  eyes  so  huge  and  needful.  His  bony  hands.  She  re-  membered  less  of  his  good  jokes  and  general  good  sense.  Their  trips.  Lovely  Italian  wine  and,  at  times,  good  sex.  MOURNING  Jason,a  truly  loved  and  irreplaceable  friend,  Lucretia  mourned,  too,  what  she  felt  to  be  the  end  of  love  in  her  life.  By  that  time  she  was  in  her  early  fifties;  even  to  think  of  love  affairs  was  ridiculous,  despite  what  she  readhere  and  there.  And  so  she  did  something  very  ridiculous,  or  worse:she  fell  violently  inlove  with  a  T5  man  almost  twenty  years  younger  than  she  was,  a  beautiful  Italian.  Silvio.  Not  only  twenty  years  younger  but  married,  and  a  Catholic,  of  course.  Oddly  enough,  it  was  he  who  loved  first.  Or  he  who  said  it  first,  pressing  her  fingers  as  they  held  a  wineglass,  at  lunch,  in  Fiesole.  Looking  up  at  him,  she  saw  him  laugh  in  a  slightly  embarrassed  way,  as  he  said,  &quot;You  mustn't  laugh,  although  itis  a  little  funny.  But  I  find  myself  seriously  in  love  with  you.&quot;  She  did  not  laugh,  but  she  smiled  as  she  said,  &quot;Oh  Silvio,  come  on-&quot;  even  as  her  heart  began  to  race,  her  blood  to  surge  forward.  She  was  aware  that  they  looked  a  little  alike,  she  and  Silvio,  a  Northern  blond;  some  people  must  think  them  mother  and  son.  Many  people  must  think  that.  Lucretia  was  staying  at  a  small  hotel  on  the  Arno,  not  far  from  Harry's  Bar;  she  had  a  penthouse  room,  with  a  lovely  viewof  the  river.  From  her  bal-  cony,  in  early  evenings,  she  observed  the  long  ovals  formed  by  the  bridges  and  their  reflections  in  the  water.  She  and  Silvio  had  drinks  there  the  first  night  he  came  to  call,  quite  properly,  to  take  her  to  Harry's  for  dinner.  He  was  the  friend  of  a  friend;  his  wife  and  chil-  dren  were  off  at  Viareggio.  After  they  became  lovers,  they  had  drinks  on  that  terrace  every  night.  &quot;You  have  the  most  marvellous  skin  in  the  world,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;Your  back,  and  here.  Like  hot  velvet.&quot;  He  laughed.  &quot;My  poor  English.  I  sound  like  the  TV.&quot;  &quot;Your  English  is  fine.&quot;  &quot;You  are  fine.  However  can  I  let  you  go?&quot;  But  he  did.  They  let  each  other  go  at  the  end  of  Lucretia's  two  weeks:  a  week  of  exploratory  friendship,  another  of  perfect  love.  Or,  vividly  recalled  by  Lucretia  in  San  Francisco,  that  is  what  it  seemed,  all  perfect.  Beautiful,  sexy  Silvio  made  love  to  her  repeatedly,  over  and  over,  at  night,  and  then  again  in  the  morning,  before  driving  off  to  his  own  house  across  the  river.  Just  love  and  sex;  they  never  spoke  of  anything  foolish  and  alien,  like  divorce.  Only,  once  ortwice  Silvio  asked  her,  &quot;If  I  should  come  to  San  Francisco,  you  will  remember?&quot;  She  laughed  at  him.  &quot;Always,  my  " b"76  darling.&quot;  She  feared  that  that  would  in-  deedbe  true.  And  she  thought,  Sup-  pose  he  calls  when  I'm  really  old,  too  old  to  see  him  again,  although  I  still  re-  member?  (She  forgot  that  at  that  time  he,  too,  would  be  much  older.)  In  her  pretty  Telegraph  Hill  cottage,  then,  with  the  doleful  sound  of  fog-  horns  strained  through  her  dreams,  Lucretia  often  woke  to  a  painful  lack  of  Silvio,  a  missing  of  him  that  was  spe-  cifically  sexual.  And  none  of  the  obvi-  ous  solutionsto  this  crying  need  ap-  pealed  to  her  at  all.  Only  Silvio  would  do,  and  at  times,  at  the  worst  and  most  painful  pre-dawn  hours,  she  thought  of  flying  back  to  4974616c79.  To  Florence,  where  she  would  say  to  Silvio  what  seemed  at  the  moment  to  be  true:  I  can't  live  without  you.  Of  course,  she  could  and  did  live  without  him,  and  all  the  prescribed  cures  worked.  She  joined  a  health  club  and  exercised  fiercely;  she  walked  whenever  and  for  as  long  as  she  could.  She  intensified  her  efforts  at  work;  she  took  on  more  assignments.  And  she  thought,  Well,  that  will  have  to  be  that.  Enough  of  sex  and  love.  I've  surely  had  my  share,  and  maybe  more.  Except  that  every  now  and  then  she  would  read  some  tantalizing,  romantic  account  of  a  woman  even  older  than  she  was  falling  in  love,  getting  married.  Or  an  article  about  the  sexual  needs  and  activities  of  the  old.  &quot;Geriatric  Sex.&quot;  Lucretia's  very  blood  would  warm  and  flare,  and  she  would  think,  Well,  maybe.  Even  as  a  more  sensible  voice  within  wouldwarn  her,  Oh,  come  on.  C  E'S  not  exactly  your  type,  but  he's  nice,&quot;  said  a  friend,  by  way  of  introducing  Burt  McElroy  into  her  life.  &quot;He's  dying  to  meet  you.&quot;  &quot;Good  Lord,  why?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  don't  be  like  that.  You're  sort  of  famous  here,  and  he  likes  blondes.  His  wife  was  blond.&quot;  &quot;Old  blondes.&quot;  &quot;His  wife  was  older  than  you.  They  were  married  forever.&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  feel  like  meeting  any-  one.  I've  given  up  all  that  stuff.  Or  maybe  it's  given  me  up.&quot;  &quot;Well,  just  come  for  dinner.  I  won't  lock  you  up  in  a  closet  together  orany-  thing.&quot;  She  added,  &quot;He  was  a  trial  law-  yer.  Now  retired.&quot;  The  lawyer,  Burt  McElroy,  was  a  very  large  man,  at  least  six  three,  and  heavy.  Thick  white  hair  and  small  bright-blue  eyes,  a  big  white  beard.  Jolly,  at  first  glance,  but  on  second  not    jolly  at  all-in  fact,  somewhat  severe.  Censorious.  And  a  little  sad.  At  dinner  that  first  night,  at  the  house  of  the  friend,  Burt  talked  con-  siderably  about  his  wife,  and  a  mu-  sic  foundation  that  he  was  establish-  ing  in  herhonor;  apparently  she  had  been  a  noted  cellist.  As  he  spoke  of  this  dead  woman,  this  Laura,  Burt  of-  ten  looked  at  Lucretia,  and  she  under-  stood  that  he  was  announcing  his  feel-  ings:  I  will  never  be  really  untrue  to  Laura.  And  so  she  laughed,  and  was  flirta-  tious  with  him;  she,  in  herway,  was  saying,  &quot;Look,  don't  worry,  I'll  never  be  serious  about  you,  either.&quot;  A  few  days  later  he  called  and  asked  herout  to  dinner.  They  went,  and  again  he  talked  a  lot  about  Laura  and  his  children.  At  her  door  he  said,  &quot;You  know,  you're  really  a  knockout  lady.  As  we  saidin  my  youth,  'I  could  really  go  for  you.'&quot;  &quot;Oh,  don't  do  that.&quot;  She  laughed  up  at  him.  Later,  thinking  over  the  evening,  Lucretia  saw  that  she  did  not  like  him  very  much,  despite  his  good  quali-  ties.  He  talked  non-stop  and  rather  self-importantly,  a  man  accustomed  to  having  the  floor.  To  delivering  opin-  ions.  And  he  did  not  listen  well;  in  fact,  he  showed  very  little  curiosity  about  her  or  anyone  else.  In  short,  he  bored  her;  it  was  true,  he  was  not  her  type  at  all.  Except  for  being  tall.  But  she  recognized,  too,  with  some  shame,  a  certain  sexual  pull  in  his  di-  rection.  She  looked  forward  to  when  he  would  kiss  her.  She  put  this  down  to  sheer  sexual  starvation-it  had  been  a  longtime  since  she  had  kissed  anyone.  Their  next  dinner  was  less  boring  for  Lucretia,  because  of  the  kissing  that  she  now  looked  forward  to.  Just  that,  kiss-  ing,  for  the  moment.  They  went  from  a  good-night  kiss  at  the  door  to  some  very  enthusi-  astic  kissing  on  the  sofa,  and  then,  be-  cause  such  adolescent  necking  seemed  ridiculous,  at  theirages,  they  went  to  bed.  Where,  after  several  long,  futile  min-  utes  of  strenuous  efforts  on  his  part,  and  some  effort  on  hers,  Burt  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  had  this  prostate  surgery,  and  I  was  afraid,  but  I  had  hoped-&quot;  He  was  breathing  hard,  from  exer-  " b"OLD  LOVE  AFFAIRS  tion  rather  than  from  lust,  Lucretia  felt,  as  she  thought,  Poor  guy,  how  embar-  rassing  this  must  be.  And  depressing.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let  me-&quot;  He  moved  heavily,  laboriously,  down  herbody,  positioning  himself.  This  is  not  something  he  usually  does,  Lucretia  thought.  Oral  sex  was  not  on  the  regular  menu  with  Laura,  the  wife.  Though,  of  course,  Lucretia  could  have  been  wrong.  Feeling  sorry  for  him,  she  pretended  more  pleasure  than  she  actually  felt;  also,  she  wanted  him  to  stop.  He  moved  up  to  lie  beside  her;  he  whispered  into  her  ear,  &quot;It's  wonderful  to  give  you  pleasure.  You're  wonderful.&quot;  ITHOUT  spelling  things  out,  without  saying,  &quot;Look,  I'm  sorry,  but  I  just  don't  like  you  very  much.  And  sexually,  I  know  it's  not  your  fault  and  I'm  sorry  you  have  this  problem,  but  it  just  doesn't  work  for  me.  I'm  sorry  I  pretended,&quot;  Lucretia  hoped  he  would  somehow  understand.  It  did  not  occur  to  her  until  later  that  she  could  just  have  not  seen  him  again,  without  apology.  Because  he  did  not  understand;  he  seemed  now  to  want  to  see  her  all  the  time.  He  took  her  to  a  banquet  at  which  he  was  the  guest  of  honor,  long  tables  at  the  Fairmont  Hotel,  important  po-  litical  people.  Men  whose  names,  at  least,  she  knew.  Lucretia,  in  her  proper,  &quot;appropri-  ate&quot;  black  dress  and  her  proper  pearls,  felt  fraudulent;  she  wanted  almost  to  announce:  I'mnot  his  lady  friend,  we  are  not,  not,  getting  married.  Burt's  friends  were  roughly  the  same  age  as  Lucretia  was,  like  Burt  him-  self,  but  they  all  seemed  considerably  older.  She  thought  this  could  be  delu-  sional  on  her  part,  a  delusion  of  youth,  although  she  knew  that  she  was  gen-  erally  a  realist  in  that  way.  Vain,  per-  haps,  she  surely  was  that,  caring  too  much  about  how  she  looked.  But  not  kidding  herself  that  she  was  a  kid  anymore.  She  was  not  quite  sure  what  this  &quot;older&quot;quality  consisted  of;  the  best  she  could  do  was  to  describe  it  as  a  sort  of  settled  heaviness,  in  both  minds  and  bodies.  They  all  looked  pleasantly  in-  vulnerable,  these  people,  Burt  and  his  friends.  No  longer  subject  to  much       " b"  change.  Or  to  passion.  They  did  not  much  mind  being  overweight.  Or  that  their  expensive  clothes  were  out  of  style.  Lucretia  was  not  exactly  smug  about  looking  younger,  and  better;  she  knew  it  was  largely  accidental.  She  had  been  born  pretty,  and  most  of  it  had  lasted.  She  ate  almost  what  she  wanted  to,  and  nevertheless  stayed  fairly  thin.  She  ex-  ercised,  butnot  immoderately.  She  had  not  had  anything  &quot;done&quot;  to  herself  in  a  surgical  way,  although  she  had  thought  about  it.  OU'RE  the  sexiest  woman  I  ever  met.  I'm  crazy  for  you,&quot;  Burt  breathed  into  her  ear.  &quot;But-&quot;  &quot;Maybe  a  little  cruise  somewhere?  [REDACTED],  maybe,  or  Baja.&quot;  &quot;Cruises&quot;  &quot;Look,  forget  you're  a  travel  writer.  Just  come  along.  Enjoy.&quot;  At  the  time  of  the  cruise  conver-  sation  (she  had  been  on  a  number  of  cruises  and  very  much  disliked  them  all)  Lucretia  was  much  involved  in  writing  a  series  of  articles  on  shelters  for  battered  women.  She  tried  to  tell  Burt  just  how  involved  she  was,  how  she  cared  about  this  particular  piece.  Which  did  not  go  over  well  with  Burt.  &quot;You  should  throw  your  weight  around  more,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;Such  as  it  is,&quot;  and  he  laughed  at  his  own  mild  joke.  He  often  teased  her  about  being  what  he  called  &quot;underweight.&quot;  &quot;You've  been  there  long  enough  and  won  enough  prizes,&quot;  he  scolded.  &quot;You  shouldbe  calling  the  shots.  Not  taking  these  re-  ally  tough  assignments.&quot;  I'm  trying  my  best  to  call  the  shots  with  you,  she  thought,  but  did  not  say.  And  I  like  writing  this  piece,  I  like  these  women.  It  was  Burt's  mouth  that  gave  his  face  its  severity,  she  decided.  A  small  mouth,  set  and  firm,  made  smaller-  seeming  by  the  surrounding  beard.  Had  someone  long  ago  said  that  small  mouths  were  a  bad  sign,  that  they  meant  an  ungiving,  stingy  nature?  Ac-  tually,  Burt  was  somewhat  stingy,  she  had  come  to  see;  &quot;careful&quot;  would  be  the  kinder  word,  but  he  was  super-careful,  hyper-concerned  with  prices,  costs,  and  he  was  surprised  and  somewhat  an-  noyed  by  her  ignorance  of  these  things.  &quot;It's  not  that  I  don't  care  what  things  cost,&quot;  she  tried  to  explain.  &quot;It's  just  " b"  that  I  get  confused.  I'm  not  good  with  numbers.&quot;  She  tried  going  to  bed  with  him  a  few  more  times,  deeply  knowing  this  to  be  a  mistake  but  saying  to  herself  that  this  time  it  might  work;  she  might  feel  the  pleasure  she  pretended  (and  she  knew  her  pretense  to  be  a  serious  error,  politically  incorrect).  But,  because  of  what  he  referred  to  as  his  &quot;problem,&quot;  Lucretia  found  it  hard  to  put  him  off  entirely;  she  understood  how  much  his  pride  was  involved,  and  she  was  reluc-  tant  to  hurt  that  pride,  and  his  feelings.  When  he  said,  as  he  sometimes  gloomily  did,  that  if  they  broke  up  she  would  be  the  last  woman  in  his  life,  she  also  understood  that  this  had  less  to  do  with  the  great  love  that  he  professed  for  her  than  with  his  secret,  his  &quot;problem.&quot;  Lucretia,  the  only  person  privy  tothat  secret,  had  to  be  the  last  in  line.  N  the  women's  shelter  Lucretia  felt  herself  stretched  between  extreme  emotions:  between  pity  and  fear,  ad-  miration,  sometimes  disgust.  And  oc-  casionally  sheer  boredom:  encouraged  by  her  questions,  some  of  these  women  would  have  talked  for  hours,  not  al-  ways  coherently.  But  many  of  them  were  coherent,  many  interesting,  some  even  funny.  A  marvellous  elderly  black  woman-from  [REDACTED],  of  all  places.  A  shrivelled  Mexican-Jewish  woman  from  [REDACTED],  with  raucous,  horrifying  tales  of  endless  boyfriends.  Lucretia's  story  in  four  installments  ran  in  the  Sunday  paper,  andmost  of  her  friends  called  to  say  how  good  it  was,  congratulations.  Edwin,  the  editor  and  her  old  friend  (the  donor  of  the  white-  framed  mirror),  was  highly  pleased.  Lucretia  noted  with  interest  that  Burt  was  among  those  who  did  not  call.  But  Simon  did  call.  Simon  Coyne,  at  that  time  a  voice  from  her  remote  past,  from  Jim  and  [REDACTED]  days,  law  school.  Although  Simon  had  not  been  in  law  school.  Eccentrically,  every-  one  felt  at  the  time,  he  was  getting  his  doctorate  in  philosophy.  Lucretia  had  heard  that  he  married  a  [REDACTED]  girl,  and  that  broke  up,  and  he  married  someone  else.  He  taught  in  several  small  schools  around  the  [REDACTED].  She  had  not  really  heard  of  him  for  years  now,  although  when  he  called  she  real-  izedthat  he  had  remained  a  roman-  tic  image  in  her  mind:  so  tall  and  fair, " b"   with  his  pipe  and  tweeds  and  slightly  odd  way  of  speech.  He  was  from  To-  ronto,  originally,  Lucretia  remembered,  but  he  seemed  more  &quot;English&quot;  than  Canadian.  More  distant  than  Canadi-  ans  generally  were.  More  impeccably,  remotely  courteous.  He  was  teaching  in  [REDACTED]  now,  Simon  said,  and,  yes,  he  liked  it  very  much.  He  had  found  a  nice  house  up  on  Euclid.  His  cats  liked  it,  too;  he  had  three.  No,  he  was  not  married,  but  two  of  his  three  sons  were  living  close  by,  as  it  happened.  Why  didn't  you  call  me  before?  Lu-  cretia  wanted  to  ask  him.  And,  When  can  we  see  each  other?  Are  you  busy  to-  night?  But  she  managed  simply  to  say,  &quot;Td  love  to  see  you,  could  you  come  over  for  supper  sometime  soon?&quot;  He  was  terribly  busy,  as  he  was  sure  that  she  was,  too,  and  besides,  he  in-  sisted  on  taking  herout  to  dinner.  He  would  call.  And  then  she  didn't  hear  from  him  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  during  which  she  saw  Burt  more  than  she  had  meant  to.  She  did  manage  at  last  to  say,  &quot;Look,  Burt,  we  can  have  dinner  sometimes  if  you'd  like  to,  but  we  can't,  uh,  go  to  bed.&quot;  His  whole  face  tightened.  &quot;I  can  hardly  blame  you  for  that.  With  my  problem.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  that.  Honestly.&quot;  And  hon-  estly  it  was  not,  not  his  impotence  but  his  whole  severe,  self-centered,  some-  what  hostile  character.  She  would  have  liked  to  say,  I  just  don't  like  you  very  much,  but  she  said  instead,  &quot;My  heart  just  isn't  in  it.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  HE  should  have  been  rewarded,  Lucretia  believed,  by  a  phone  call  from  Simon,  asking  her  out  to  dinner  at  last.  But  she  was  not.  Burt  called  several  times,  still  wanting  to  see  her,  and  each  time  the  phone  rang  she  imagined  that  it  would  be  Simon,  but  it  was  not.  After  some  time  of  this  she  thought,  I  am  much  too  old  to  wait  for  phone  calls.  And  so  she  called  him.  As  she  had  more  or  less  known  that  he  would  be,  Simon  was  gallantly  con-  trite.  He  had  meant  to  call  her,  he  had  looked  forward  to  seeing  her,  but  had  been  struck  down  with  crazy  busyness.  Department  politics,  plus  high-level  university  trouble.  She  reassured  him.  Perfectly  all  THE  NEW  YORKER,  OCTOBER  23,  1995  right-she  had  been  busy,  too.  She  in-  vited  him  to  dinner.  Oh,  no,  he  said,  they  must  go  out,  and  he  named  a  place  that  he  had  wanted  to  try.  On  the  waterfront.  Sup-  posed  to  be  excellent  food,  and  also  at-  tractive.  Hard  to  get  reservations,  but  he  would  try,  and  call  her  back.  They  settled  on  a  night.  He  did  call  back,  to  say  that  he  could  get  a  table  only  at  seven,  too  early,  but  worth  a  try.  He  would  pick  her  up  at  six-thirty;  he  would  very  much  look  forward  to  see-  ing  her.  Like  a  nervous  girl,  Lucretia  won-  dered  what  to  wear.  She  was  tempted  to  buy  something  new  and  wonderful,  but  she  did  not  like  the  styles  of  that  year.  She  settled  on  her  best  old  black  dress,  which  everyone  liked.  At  about  six  her  phone  rang,  and  Lucretia's  heart  sank,  as  she  thought,  It  must  be  Burt  or,  worse,  it's  Simon,  cancelling.  It  was  Simon,  not  cancelling  but  apologizing:  A  meeting  was  holding  him  up,  could  they  possibly  meet  at  the  restaurant?  Driving  down  [REDACTED],  through  all  the  mess  of  lights  and  traffic,  it  oc-  curred  to  Lucretia  that  she  should  have  taken  a  cab;  this  way  they  would  have  to  part  publicly  in  some  parking  lot.  The  restaurant  was  in  an  old  wharf  building,  remodelled:  low,  dark  ceil-  ings,  low  lights,  a  long,  rich  bar  and  spectacular  view  of  the  Bay  and  the  Bay  Bridge,  [REDACTED].  Black  water  and  huge,  dim,  looming  boats.  At  first,  coming  in,  Lucretia  could  not  see  Simon,  butthen  she  said  his  name,and  she  was  directed:  there,  he  could  have  been  no  one  else-tall,  lean,  fair  Simon,  with  his  narrow  face,  long  nose,  sardonic  mouth.  He  was  stand-  ing,  smiling,  and  then  coming  toward  her,  hands  outstretched  to  her.  They  both  said,  &quot;Oh,  I'm  so  glad-&quot;  and  stopped,  and  laughed.  Their  dinner  was  much  in  that  key,  enthusiastically  friendly,  with  good  laughs.  And  relatively  impersonal.  Si-  mon  gracefully  deflected  anything  verg-  ing  on  the  personal,  did  not  discuss  his  two  marriages.  Instantly  sensitive  to  his  mood  and  needs  (this  was  one  of  her  major  skills),  Lucretia  was  amusing.  She  told  funny  stories  about  the  paper,  about  people  she  had  interviewed.  And  they  exchanged  travel  notes;  they  both  " b"  loved  the  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED],  the  North  of  4974616c79,  and  they  laughed  at  the  unorig-  inality  of  their  tastes.  Simon's  hair,  though  still  thick,  was  actually  white,  not  blond,  as  Lucretia  had  remembered.  But,  as  she  sat  with  him  there,  she  was  seeing  not  the  el-  derly  man  whom  another  person  might  have  described  as  distinguished  but  rather  a  young,  blond,  athletic  Simon,  with  his  fair  hair  and  dark-brown  eyes,  his  high,  white  intellectual  brow,  and  his  clever,  sensual  mouth.  She  was  see-  ing  and  responding  to  a  very  young  man,  but  also  to  an  aging  man,  with  white  hair,  whom  she  hardly  knew.  With  whom  she  had  an  animated,  no-  depth  conversation.  But  to  whom  she  responded,  deeply.  As  she  had  imagined,  and  feared,  they  parted  at  her  car,  though,  bending  down  toher,  Simon  asked  anxiously,  &quot;Should  I  follow  you  home?  See  that  you  get  there  safely?&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,  I  drive  around  all  the  time.  I'll  be  fine.&quot;  A  brush  of  mouths  on  cheeks.  Good  night.  ERETIA  knew  that  she  was  much  too  old  to  wait  for  the  phone  to  ring,  and  yet  the  next  day,  a  Saturday,  she  found  that  that  was  what  she  was  doing.  Despite  the  fact  that  her  an-  swering  machine  was  functioning,  she  kept  herself  within  range  of  her  tele-  phone,  postponing  the  small  weekend  tasks  that  would  make  enough  noise  to  drown  it  out.  Postponing  neighborhood  errands.  Until  she  thought,  This  is  abso-  lutely,  utterly  ridiculous.  And  she  went  out  for  an  extended  walk,  doing  er-  rands,  and  even  appreciating  the  beau-  tiful  fall  day.  Coming  home,  though,  and  noting  her  machine's  non-flashing  light,  no  messages,  she  experienced  a  sinking  of  her  spirits:  he  had  not  called.  This  was  crazy,  she  knew  that;  she  thought,  I  cannot  let  myself  do  this.  I  will  simply  have  to  take  charge.  I'll  call  him.  This  is  the  nineties,  no  matter  how  old  we  are.  &quot;Simon,  it's  Lucretia.  I  just  wanted  to  thank  you  for  dinner.  It  was  really  terrific.  I  had  a  marvellous  time,  so  lovely  to  see  you,  really.  I  wondered,  could  you  come  here  for  dinner,  doyou  think?  Maybe  next  Friday?  Well,  actu-  ally  Saturday's  fine.  Even  better.  Great!  See  you  then.&quot;  Rack  of  lamb?  Steak  aw  poivre?  Or  were  those  too  show-offy,  obvious?  Maybe  just  cracked  crab  and  a  salad?  But  that  showed  off  nothing  at  all,  no  cooking.  And  then  she  thought,  Dear  God,  it  doesn'tmatter.  I'll  make  some-  thing  good.  Whatever.  But  she  spent  the  next  week  inelab-  orate  fantasies  of  the  possible  eve-  ning  with  Simon.  In  which,  sometimes,  they  went  from  passionate  kissing  at  the  door  directly  to  bed,  where  things  went  well.  So  obsessed  was  she  that  she  won-  dered,  Have  I  fallen  in  love  with  Si-  mon?  At  my  age?  Is  that  what  this  is  all  about?  She  noted  that  in  her  dreams  several  other  men  appeared,  whom  she  had  not  thought  of  for  years.  She  dreamed  of  Jim  and  of  Tommy,  of  poor  dead  Ja-  son,  of  beautiful  Silvio.  And  of  several  others.  By  the  actual  night  on  which  the  ac-  tual  Simon  came  to  her  house  for  din-  ner,  Lucretia  was  exhausted,  emotion-  ally,  so  drained  that  preparing  the  rack  of  lamb,  God  knows  an  easy  dish,  had  taken  great  effort.  Not  to  mention  blow-drying  her  hair,  brushing  it.  It  was  partly  from  fatigue,  then,  that  later,  in  her  pretty  living  room,  a  famil-  iar  and  perfect  backdrop  for  love,  Lu-  cretia  found  herself  regarding  Simon  with  the  most  terrible  sadness.  Shewas  not  in  love  with  Simon,  she  really  was  not-although  he  was  perfectly  nice  and  in  his  way  quite  handsome,  still,  and  interesting.  It  was  simply  that  he  reminded  her  of  love.  Some  hint  of  all  the  men  she  had  ever  loved  was  in  his  aura,  like  a  scent.  One  sniff  of  it  and  she  thought,  Ah,  love!  That  knowledge,  or  insight,  though  sad,  was  relaxing  to  Lucretia,  and  she  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  won't  mind  if  we  eat  unfashionably  early?  I'm  sort  of  tired.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all.  It's  a  terrible  thing  about  age,&quot;  he  said,  with  his  attractive,  crooked  smile.  &quot;I  find  that  I'm  tired  a  lot.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  am,  too!&quot;  and  she  flashed  her  answering  bright  smile,  as  she  thought,  Oh  good,  I  won't  have  to  pretend  any-  more.  And  I  won't  even  think  about  falling  in  love.  But  of  course  she  did.  \xc2\xa2  "