  TOWARD  A  MORE  PRECISE  IDENTIFICATION  OF  THE  NEWER  ANGELS  AVING  died,  hav-  ing  been  judged  un-  expectedly  worthy,  you-new  recruit-  find  yourself  trans-  posed  up  the  infinite  octaves  that  now  separate  you,  the  truly  righteous,  from  the  rest  of  those  dead-  beats  left  down  below.  Glad  you're  aboard.  You  are  saved  from  the  ranks  of  the  glum  and  greedy.  You  are  set  apart  from  a  recent  Attorney  General  whose  one  defense  ran  that  he  hadn't  been  in-  dicted-yet.  How  does  it  feel  to  be  finally  unlatched  from  pain?  I  am  here  to  welcome  you.  I  have  greeted  many.  (Some  complain  that  I  &quot;editorialize&quot;  during  these  wake-up  calls.  But,  for  me,  you  see,  strong  opinion  is  paradise.  I've  been  here  for  absolutely  ever.  My  exact  age,  thank  God,  is  finally  irrel-  evant.  I  can't  believe  how  much  I  once  cared.  Time  was  swc  a  drag.  My  dears,  we  are  well  rid  of  it.)  And  what  do  you  thousands  of  souls  have  in  common?  A  fondness  for  the  lucky  numbers  one,  three,  and  seven.  For  the  color  red.  An  interest  in  astrol-  ogy:  you  will  find  more  Geminis  and  Scorpios  among  you  than  any  other  sign  (yes,  we,  too,  notice  these  things,  but  don't  quite  believe  them,  either).  As  a  group,  you  exhibit  a  sense  of  humor  often  dismissed  as  &quot;infantile.&quot;  You  have  a  secret  sweet  tooth  and  a  passion  for  collecting  everything  from  salt-cellars  to  orphans.  There's  a  talent  for  empathy,  and  a  quiet,  if  profound,  interest  in  sex  (more  about  that  later).  You've  each  kept  a  garden,  if  only  a  window  box.  Your  virtues  run  alongside  a  scofflaw's  hatred  for  paying  parking  tickets.  Among  your  group,  you  will  not  find  a  single  representative  of  the  executive  or  legislative  branches,  although  a  BY  ALLAN  GURGANUS  handful  from  the  judiciary  did  squeak  through.  As  usual,  few  of  the  profes-  sionally  religious  made  our  last  cut.  There  is  some  fairness  after  all.  And  today  there's  another  element,  surprise:  you  are  astonished  at  the  fact  of  [REDACTED]-any  paradise;  you  are  shocked  at  being  picked  for  it.  But,  see,  that's  what  constitutes  your  righteous-  ness,  you  silly  willies!  The  fact  is,  thirty-nine  per  cent  of  you  are  atheists.  Were  ...  atheists.  Not  one  of  you  did  the  weekly  Meals-  on-Wheels  gig  for  a  superstitious  pros-  pect  of  heavenly  reward.  Such  climbers  and  overachievers  arenot,  alas,  for  us.  Nor,  thank  goodness,  are  glad-handers  from  the  business  community  of  At-  lanta.  Although  we  have  included  two  &quot;career&quot;  Manhattanites,  we  have  no  Pa-  risians.  Our  ranks  ..  .  are...  Uh-um,  excuse  me.  I  see  you  three  whispering,  on  the  two  hundred  and  ninety-fifth  row  back.  Yes,you.  Look,  I  know  you're  keyed  up,  and  I  don't  doubt  that  you  have  scads  to  chat  about.  But  I  ain't  exactly  your  average  flight  attendant  up  here  delivering  the  same  old  crash  lore,  my  dears.  There'll  be  time  for  your  little  per-  sonal  exchanges.  Thank  you.  (I  swear,  in  every  group,  we  get  a  few.)  Where  was  I?  Oh  yes,  [REDACTED],  etc.  Our  ranks  are  comprised  solely  of  seeming  nonbe-  lievers  who  somehow  found  ways  to  live  believingly.  The  top  crowd  is  never  quite  what  you  expect.  YES,  there  is  a  Hell.  But  why  bother  your  pretty  little  headsabout  that?  Except,  of  course,  in  this  one  re-  spect:you'll  find  it  delicious  picturing  the  pain  now  being  endured  by  the  lowlifes  you  left  behind-the  ones  who  divorced  you,or  borrowed  money  they  never  intended  repaying,  or,  in  forty-  nine  of  the  cases  present,  actually  killed  you!  They're  now  suffering.  Hell  is  their  constant  root  canal,.  A  molar-  grinding  torture  will  keep  them  scream-  ing  through  eternity.  (Never  doubt  that  God  loves  you.)  Each  year,  we  find  our  entering  class  gets  smaller.  But  what  ascends  to  us  is  still  deeply  edifying.  You  constitute  the  center  of  the  moral  universe  that  still  holds.  And  lately,  little  has.  Attendant  rewards  await  you.  Let's  call  this  Freshman  Orientation,  shall  we?  It  is  my  joy  to  describe  cer-  tain  facts  of  your  sudden,  exquisite  setup.  ‘  N  JE  begin  with  your  new  shapes.  I  see  a  few  in  back  noticing.  No  criticism  implied:  you  are  altered.  Ac-  tually  &quot;transformed&quot;  (to  do  the  miracle  full  credit).  Your  wings-don't  fret-won't  be  a  burden.  Clear  of  your  sight  lines,  they're  useful  should  you  ever  need  them,  like  overabundant  closet  space.  All  our  torsos  are  single-sex  units-  chests,  sizable  forpecs,  if  small  for  breasts.  Your  silver  ectoplasmic  wings  are  tucked  behind.  I  note  your  expres-  sion,  eighty-ninth  from  the  left  a  hundred  and  forty  rows  back.  Like  you,  I  found  the  concept  of  wingedness  a  little  retro  when  I  arrived.  This  far  intotime's  vertical  future,  &quot;wing-  shapes&quot;  are  scarcely  a  flight  require-  ment.  In  fact,  such  canaryish  trap-  pings  seemed  coy,  vestigial.  But  nobody  asked  me.  You  see,  I'm  allowed  to  dissent.  Crabbiness  has  always  offered  me  a  pleasure  supernatural.  So,  God-hav-  ing  slipped  up  and  made  me  an  angel-  tolerates  my  crossness:  it  will  grumble  on  forever.  God's  really  rather  good  at  this.  It's  hard  to  trust  this  dazzling  ar-  rangement,  isn't  it,  my  dears?  Here,  let  me  help  you  try.  If,  in  your  last  life,  you  everenvi-  ANDERS  WENNGREN     sioned  wanting  to  do  something,  you  can  fully  do  it  here.  Not  &quot;do,&quot;  but  &quot;have  done.&quot;  For,  to  picture  a  deed  in  Para-  dise  is  both  to  enact  it  and  to  recall  it  instantly.  That  is  a  paradox  of  God-  He/She  hasnever  been  an  entity  dwell-  ing  in  the  present  tense.  God  is  perfect  memory,  plus  endless  time.  Anything  that  was  ever  forgotten  (that  is,  every-  thing)  eventually  ends  up  here,  in  our  ecstatic  Lost-and-Found.  Example?  I  might  say,  oh,  home-  made  lemon-meringue  pie,  cooling  on  a  [REDACTED]  windowsill  before  its  browned  peaks  harden  into  stickiness.  A  confec-  tion  made  twenty  minutes  back  by  your  mom,  who'll  be  dead  (drunk  driver,  laundry  truck)  before  suppertime-her  final  creation  and  gift,  steam  rising,  set  on  atea  towel,  your  back  yard's  blooming  fruit  trees  in  view.  You  wan-  der  home  from  school.  Mom's  car  is  gone,  but  her  pie  is  waiting.  It  smells  of  grated  lemon  rind  and  is  held  in  place  by  the  lightest  possible  crust.  You,  aged  nine,  ache  to  sneak  a  wedge.  In  life,  you  did  not.  The  wreck  happened.  You  heard  it  from  the  house.  Aunts  con-  verged.  Casseroles  arrived.  The  pie  was  refrigerated  and  then-as  newer  treats  swarmed  in-was  &quot;tossed,&quot;  uneaten.  But  now,  in  [REDACTED],  you  get  to  taste  both  it  and  her.  There,  I  hear  those  new  lips  smacking.  Oh,  I  love  the  sound  of  your  laugh-  ter.  I  spent  much  of  my  earthly  energy  loving  others.  And  do  you  know  what  they  did?  They  all  left  me.  Coming  in  through  the  back  door,  I  dreaded  see-  ing  the  note  on  the  table  again,  &quot;You  were  kind,  and  I  am  not  sure  why  but  I  know  I'm  gone  for  good.&quot;  Our  dresser  drawers  half-emptied,  our  bundled  sav-  ings  fully  cleared.  But  this  time,  for  all  time,  it's  always  hello.  Hello,  forever.  Thank  you,  gra-  cious  God.  Such  pleasure.  I've  been  volunteering  for  this  duty  since,  well,  you've  no  idea.  HAT  roar  you'll  hear  intermittently  forever  is  called  &quot;euphoria.&quot;  You'll  learn  to  tamp  it  back  should  it  interfere  with  the  Conversation.  Nothing  must  ever  obscure  one  glorious  word  of  that,  our  communal  enterprise.  You  have  just  arrived  midsentence  at  the  longest  dor-  mitory  bull  session  ever.  Heavenly  talk  is  not  symphonic-  symphonies  were  nothing  more  than  poignant  human  overreaching.  It  is  chamber  music,  chat  and  revelation,  a  gossip  where  history,  picnic  sensations,  philosophy,  mathematical  verity,  and  all  deeds  sexual  are  conjoined  to  form  a  single,  round-the-clock  state,  a  forward  beating,  rolling  motion  we  call  &quot;Joy.&quot;  &quot;Hell  is  other  people,&quot;  wrote  one  sad  man.  But,  you  see,  if  Hell  is  other  peo-  ple,  so  is  Heaven.  Heaven  is  just  other  other  people.  Imagine  speaking  steadily,  com-  mingling  your  wings,  merging  your  new  skin  with,  say,  Plato.  Leonardo,  Bach,  Mozart,  Jane  Austen,  Rem-  brandt-who'd  still  rather  draw,  which  he  does  with  a  finger  in  the  air.  You  can  relax  with  George  Eliot,  Che-  khov,  [REDACTED]  Woolf,  Montaigne,  and  one  of  the  Wright  Brothers  (I  can  never  remember  which  one,  but  he's  definitely  on  my  side  of  the  wing  debate).  When  things  get  slow,  Buster  Kea-  ton  does  one  of  his  &quot;falls&quot;-going  straight  down  through  clouds.  You'll  love  it.  George  [REDACTED]?  He's  al-  ways  around,a  lovely  man,  I  guess,  but  has  nothing  to  say.  Jefferson?  In  Hell.  Go  figure.  We  have  Shakespeare  (a  sexual  ath-  lete  and  an  absolute  stitch).  Shake-  speare  and  Lincoln  are  inseparable  lately,  thick  as  thieves;  Shakespeare  thinks  that  he  invented  Lincoln,  and  Lincoln-whose  sense  of  humor  is  dark  as  corn  syrup-lets  Shakespeare  think  that.  Typical.  IPS  on  things  to  try  first?  Younow  have  access  to  all  languages  and  patois,  all  the  facts  and  contradictions  of  intergalactic  history.  Your  mind  can  go  anywhere,  can  become  anyone's  in  any  language,  in  any  period.  Eating,  sleeping,  and  the  nuisance  of  elimination  are  optional.  But  many  of  our  ranks  still  choose  to  exercise  these  functions  in  memory  (and  therefore  deed).  Old  habits  die  hard.  Habits  seem  less  willing  to  stop  living  than  does  human  life  itself!  In  fact,  &quot;Voiding&quot;  is  even  catching  on  in  certain  circles-  you  see  them  seated,  knee  to  knee,  back-  sides  exposed.  Quaint,  loggy,  primi-  tive,  hopeless,  soporific  yet  engaging  as  human  life  itself.  I  consider  such  fads  endearing.  85  Sex?  You  think  we're  superior  to  that  on  high?  With  all  this  time  on  our  hands?  Rethink,  my  new  beauties.  You'll  find  no  virgins  in  [REDACTED]-at  least,  not  for  long.  (Oh,  sure,  there  are  a  few  holdouts.  Emily  Dickinson,  Winslow  Homer,  Joseph  Cornell,  and  Vincent  van  Gogh.  And,  I  mean,  everybody's  after  them.)  On  this  plane,  you  need  only  con-  sider  the  act  with  someone,  and  in-  stantly-indeed,  almost  involuntarily-  youtwo  are  at  it.  Oftentimes  in  midair.  Others,  materialized  nearby,  get  to  watch.  All  in  the  family.  No  need  for  your  partner  to  announce  his  or  her  name  or  former  occupation  or  death  date-you  know  all  that  already.  (You  know  everything,  my  dear  ones.  And  instead  of  being  phone-book  boring,  omniscience-one  now  realizes-is  such  a  turn-on.)  Joined  to  your  latest  beloved,  you  both  instantly  know  each  other's  deep-  est  trigger  spots:  every  encoded  prelin-  gual  animal  oink  is  spread  out  before  you  like  a  piano  keyboard.  &quot;Higher,&quot;  &quot;There,&quot;  &quot;Unnnnh,&quot;  &quot;Wetter,&quot;  &quot;Less  teethies,&quot;  etc.  Imagine  the  sensations  of  &quot;simultaneous  orgasm&quot;  stretched  out  in  ejaculatory  increments  across  pearly  eternity-entire.  The  screaming  can  be  hilarious.  All  exchanges  here,  by  the  way-  ideological,  fluid,  or  electric-produce  emotions  of  operatic  intensity.  Just  as  smart  mortals  perfect  their  chess,  we  brighter  angels  play  at  an  unscience  called  &quot;human  emotion.&quot;  The  rules  of  human  emotion  are  exceedingly  com-  plex  because:there  are  none.  SOME  of  you  are  wondering  if  you  &quot;de-  serve&quot;  such  epic  rewards.  If  you're  &quot;up  to&quot;  Heaven.  You  never  thought  of  yourself  as  particularly  good,  right?  Ac-  tually,  you  often  weren't.  It's  how  you  compare  to  those  other  slugs  that  makes  you  seem  total  saints.  The  others  said,  &quot;Who'll  know?  What  difference  will  it  make  in  fifty  years?  As  long  as  you've  already  taken  off  your  knickers,  tramp,  why  not  this  once?&quot;  Meanwhile,  you  were  down  there,  muddling  through,  sweating  out  your  quarterly  estimates,  still  playing  by  the  rules,  sweet  fools.  Alive,  I  myself  did  most  everything  wrong.  I  even  did  wrong  wrong.  I  can't  say  more.  I  had  a  sort  of  life,  I  guess.  I  overtrusted.  &quot;No  good  deed  goes  un-  punished&quot;  seemed  my  epitaph  till  wak-  ing  in  [REDACTED].  (Nobody  dead  was  ever  more  floored  by  it  than  I.)  By  the  bye,  little  is  demanded  here.  Some  of  our  denizens  opted  for  a  good  nap  on  arriving  in  1491  and  have  cho-  sen  never  to  end  that  supernal  siesta.  So  be  it.  And  maybe  it's  just  me,  but  that  far  row  on  the  end?  Looks  a  teensy  bit  ragged,  almost  unattractive.  Thank  you,  there,  I'm  feeling  better,  and  you're  kind.  HAT  have  we  retained  from  that  depressed  old  world?  What  do  schnauzer-gnawed  postmen,  unpredict-  ably  big-hearted  Monte  Carlo  gam-  blers,  and  the  twin  Kiwanian  brothers  who  broke  records  selling  Christmas  trees  for  cerebral  palsy  in  subzero  weather,  only  to  catch  pneumonia  for  thanks,  all  have  in  common?  Yes,  I  see  that  you  in  back  are  catching  my  drift.  Good:  explore,  feel.  Yes,  your  original  genitals.  Those,  and  your  hands.  The  dear  baubles  (be  they  cleft  or  sceptered),  plus  your  clever  mitts,  are  surely  still  themselves,  no?  Open  and  close  your  hands.  Look  between  your  legs.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  right?  Now,  don't  you  feel  a  heap  less  alone,  finding  they've  tagged  along,  petlike?  Go  ahead,  check  yours  out.  Flex  those  digits.  Our  many  nail-biters  will  find  their  nails  still  nibbled.  Your  wed-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  4,  1995  ding  rings?  They  vaporized  in  tran-  sit,  alas.  But  the  grooves  still  dent  and  dignify.  Laden  with  typing  skills,  able  to  tie  fly-fishing  lures  in  the  dark,  still  so  attuned  to  others'  genital  plea-  sures-your  hands  were  more  par-  ticularly  clever  than  your  head.  Man-  uallabor  matters  mucho  to  our  Lord.  Also,  being  fairly  good  at  it,  your  hands  contain  your  own  most  auto-  matic  kindness:  your  soul.  Touch  your  underparts  for  starters?  I  know  I  never  tire  of  doing  so.  Oh,  the  memories  stirred!  Your  surviving  genital  portions  are  now  made  of  finer  stuff  than  that  first  rude  stab.  Here  they're  more  satiny,  slightly  sleeker,  euphemized.  Plus  there's  a  bonus:  the  distance  you  just  blurred  through  in  getting  here  mercifully  served  your  lower  body  as  a  depilatory.  That  helps,  design-wise.  It  was  patchy,  pubic  hair,  admit  it.  Even  ours.  ND  finally,  my  dears,  this  is  how  God  separates  the  two  classes  of  we,  the  angelic.  You  are  all  now  Angels  Republican  Second  Rank  (that's  just  &quot;For  showing  up&quot;).  But  way,  way  higher  stand  the  Angels  Imperial  First  Class.  Though  I  belong  to  that  imperial  crowd,  I  was  not  consulted  in  the  mat-  ter.  [REDACTED]  should  not,  I  feel,  make  such  élitist  distinctions,  I'm  sorry.  How  will  you  become  Angels  Impe-  rial  First  Class  as,  unexpectedly,  yours  truly  did?  Simple.  If,  while  wandering  among  the  other  angels,  you,  new  kid,  should  pass  a  vet-  eran  who,  glancing  at  your  telltale  lower  regions,  knows  you  (in  all  senses)  and  can  name  your  name,  then  you  will  in-  stantly  be  marked  as  a  soul  judged  as  ultimately  good.  It  proves  you  did  the  maximum  in  ex-  ercising  your  God-given  vertical  iden-  tity  while  still  painfully  earthlocked.  Your  discoverer-namer  might  be  your  predeceased  spouse  or  lover.  Per-  haps  an  over-adoring  elder  brother  or  sister.  Maybe  a  diddling  scoutmaster  with  a  great  memory  for  detail,  up  close  and  personal.  Or  just  some  regular  cus-  tomer  whose  hand  you  shook  every  week  for  sixty  years.  But,  if  any  such  angel  can,  by  rec-  ognizing  some  twist  or  suppleness  of  your  mortal  generative  area-a  char-  acteristic  moundness  or  a  roundness,  or  FICTION  a  clove-shaped  mole;  a  depth  or  a  breadth;  a  raggedness,  a  rosiness,  a  heft  or  a  tininess;  if  any  (Are  they  ready  to  come  in?  Fine,  hold  them  just  a  wing-  beat  more,  please.  .  .  .  ),  among  the  mil-  Tions  of  formerly  dead  about  to  file  past  you  (quite  a  spectacle  of  breeze  and  beauty),  should  suddenly  point  down  with  glee,  and  utter  that  single  word-  your  name!  (&quot;Verne!&quot;  say,  or  &quot;Sally!&quot;)-  then  you,  my  dearest,  will  be  admitted  to  the  Angels  Imperial  First  Class  for-  ever.  You  will  advance  automatically  to  the  right  hand  of  God  the  Mother-  Father  Almighty.  They  about  ready?  Excellent.  Here  it  all  starts,  my  dears.  Feel  the  light  burning  across  your  new-old  body.  Recognitions  will  soon  occur.  Our  lines  will  now  dissolve.  Mill,  ogle,  scout,  waggle,  point,  chat,  giggle,  gab,  prod,  whatever.  Freely:  good.  Keep  gazing-good-freely  at  your  class-  mates'  last  innocent  ties  to  the  old,  cor-  rupted  world.  Good.  Touch.  Should  you  come  upon  anyone  you  simply  know,  then  by  all  means,  blurt!  Don't  get  shy  on  us  now!  This  pretty  much  ends  our  first  bulletin.  Observe,  fondle,  stroke,  Indian-  wrestle,  handhold.  Try  several  brands  of  hearty  handshakes  to  make  sure.  Shout  a  beloved  name.  Feel  each  other,  feel  each  other  up,  my  darling  sudden  an-  gels.  You're  allowed  now,  anything,  always.  Pray  continue.  We  have  only  time  here.  You'll  all  soon  be  absolutely  crazy  about  each  other.  Fascinated,  and  I  mean  forever.  Here,  no  one  will  ever  leave  you  again.  Heaven's  code  name  is  &quot;Hello.&quot;  You  have  managed.  You  persisted  when  &quot;wiser  ones&quot;  turned  back.  Others  retreated  toward  mere  dignity,  security.  They  are  in  Hell  or,  worse,  nowhere.  You  chanced  loving  those  who,  trying,  just  .  ..  could  ...  not  ...  quite  ...  fully  ..  .  love  .  ..  you  ...  back.  Let  true  pleasure-innocent  and  richly  deep-at  last  begin.  How  can  you  know  you've  just  found  [REDACTED]?  You  will  have  found  perfect,  funny,  erotic  company  eternally.  Turn  to  face  those  recent  angels  near-  est  you.  Nine  words  are  burned  deep  into  the  gate  of  Heaven:  &quot;You  have  only  just  begun  to  know  each  other.&quot; 