THE  line  was  endless.  Anders  couldn't  get  to  the  bank  until  just  before  it  closed  and  now  he  was  stuck  behind  two  women  whose  loud,  stupid  conversation  put  him  in  a  murderous  temper.  He  was  never  in  the  best  of  tempers  anyway,  Anders-  a  book  critic  known  for  the  weary,  elegant  savagery  with  which  he  dis-  patched  almost  everything  he  re-  viewed.  With  the  line  still  doubled  around  the  rope,  one  of  the  tellers  stuck  a  Position  Closed  sign  in  her  win-  dow  and  walked  to  the  back  of  the  bank,  where  she  leaned  against  a  desk  and  began  to  pass  the  time  with  a  man  shuffling  papers.  The  women  in  front  of  Anders  broke  off  their  conversation  and  watched  the  teller  with  hatred.  &quot;Oh,  that's  nice,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  She  turned  to  Anders  and  added,  confident  of  his  accord,  &quot;One  of  those  little  human  touches  that  keep  us  coming  back.&quot;  Anders  had  conceived  his  own  towering  hatred  of  the  teller,  but  he  immediately  turned  it  on  the  pre-  sumptuous  crybaby  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Damned  unfair,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tragic,  really.  If  they're  not  chopping  off  the  wrong  leg,  or  bombing  your  ancestral  village,  they're  closing  their  positions.&quot;  She  stood  her  ground.  &quot;I  didn't  say  it  was  tragic,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  just  think  it's  a  pretty  lousy  way  to  treat  your  customers.&quot;  &quot;Unforgivable,&quot;  Anders  said.  &quot;Heaven  will  take  note.&quot;  She  sucked  in  her  cheeks  but  stared  past  him  and  said  nothing.  Anders  saw  that  the  other  woman,  her  friend,  was  looking  in  the  same  direction.  And  then  the  tellers  stopped  what  they  were  doing,  and  the  customers  slowly  turned,  and  silence  came  over  BY  TOBIAS  WOLFF  the  bank.  Two  men  wearing  black  ski  masks  and  blue  business  suits  were  standing  to  the  side  of  the  door.  One  of  them  had  a  pistol  pressed  against  the  guard's  neck.  The  guard's  eyes  were  closed,  and  his  lips  were  moving.  The  other  man  had  a  sawed-off  shot-  gun.  &quot;Keep  your  big  mouth  shut!&quot;  the  man  with  the  pistol  said,  though  no  one  had  spoken  a  word.  &quot;One  of  you  tellers  hits  the  alarm,  you're  all  dead  meat.  Got  it?&quot;  The  tellers  nodded.  &quot;Oh,  bravo,&quot;  Anders  said.  &quot;Dead  meat.&quot;  He  turned  to  the  woman  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Great  script,  eh?  The  stern,  brass-knuckled  poetry  of  the  dangerous  classes.&quot;  She  looked  at  him  with  drowning  eyes.  The  man  with  the  shotgun  pushed  the  guard  to  his  knees.  He  handed  the  shotgun  to  his  partner  and  yanked  the  guard's  wrists  up  behind  his  back  and  locked  them  together  with  a  pair  of  handcuffs.  He  then  toppled  him  onto  the  floor  with  a  kick  between  the  shoulder  blades.  He  took  his  shot-  gun  back  and  went  over  to  the  secu-  rity  gate  at  the  end  of  the  counter.  He  was  short  and  heavy  and  moved  with  peculiar  slowness,  even  torpor.  &quot;Buzz  him  in,&quot;  his  partner  said.  The  man  with  the  shotgun  sauntered  along  the  line  of  tellers,  handing  each  of  them  a  Hefty  bag.  When  he  came  to  the  empty  position  he  looked  over  at  the  man  with  the  pistol,  who  said,  &quot;Whose  slot  is  that?&quot;  Anders  watched  the  teller.  She  put  her  hand  to  her  throat  and  turned  to  the  man  she'd  been  talking  to.  He  nodded.  &quot;Mine,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Then  get  your  ugly  ass  in  gear  and  fill  that  bag.&quot;  &quot;There  you  go,&quot;  Anders  said  to  the  woman  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Justice  is  done.&quot;  &quot;Hey!  Bright  boy!  Did  I  tell  you  to  talk?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Anders  said.  &quot;Then  shut  your  trap.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  hear  that?&quot;  Anders  said.  &quot;  'Bright  boy.&quot;  Right  out  of  'The  Killers.  &quot;  &quot;Please  be  quiet,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;Hey,  you  deaf  or  what?&quot;  The  man  with  the  pistol  walked  over  to  An-  ders.  He  poked  the  weapon  into  Anders'  gut.  &quot;You  think  I'm  playing  games?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Anders  said,  but  the  barrel  tickled  like  a  stiff  finger  and  he  had  to  fight  back  the  titters.  He  did  this  by  making  himself  stare  into  the  man's  eyes,  which  were  clearly  visible  be-  hind  the  holes  in  the  mask:  pale-blue  and  rawly  red-rimmed.  The  man's  left  eyelid  kept  twitching.  He  breathed  out  a  piercing,  ammoniac  smell  that  shocked  Anders  more  than  anything  that  had  happened,  and  he  was  be-  ginning  to  develop  a  sense  of  unease  when  the  man  prodded  him  again  with  the  pistol.  &quot;You  like  me,  bright  boy?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  want  to  suck  my  dick?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Anders  said.  &quot;Then  stop  looking  at  me.&quot;  Anders  fixed  his  gaze  on  the  man's  shiny  wing-tip  shoes.  &quot;Not  down  there.  Up  there.&quot;  He  stuck  the  pistol  under  Anders'  chin  and  pushed  it  upward  until  Anders  was  looking  at  the  ceiling.  Anders  had  never  paid  much  at-  tention  to  that  part  of  the  bank,  a  pompous  old  building  with  marble  floors  and  counters  and  pillars  and  gilt  scrollwork  over  the  tellers'  cages.  The  domed  ceiling  had  been  deco-  rated  with  mythological  figures  whose  fleshy,  toga-draped  ugliness  Anders  had  taken  in  at  a  glance  many  years  earlier  and  afterward  declined  to  no-  tice.  Now  he  had  no  choice  but  to  scrutinize  the  painter's  work.  It  was  worse  than  he  remembered,  and  all  of  it  executed  with  the  utmost  grav-  ity.  The  artist  had  a  few  tricks  up  his  sleeve  and  used  them  again  and  again-  ra  el  GOW:  &lt;  a  FILIP  a  certain  rosy  blush  on  the  under-  side  of  the  clouds,  a  coy  backward  glance  on  the  faces  of  the  cupids  and  fauns.  The  ceiling  was  crowded  with  various  dramas,  but  the  one  that  caught  Anders'  eye  was  Zeus  and  [REDACTED]-portrayed,  in  this  rendition,  as  a  bull  ogling  a  cow  from  behind  ahaystack.  To  make  the  cow  sexy,  the  painter  had  cantedher  hipssug-  gestively  and  given  her  long,  droopy  eyelashes,  through  which  she  gazed  back  at  the  bull  with  sultry  wel-  come.  The  bull  wore  a  smirk  and  his  eyebrows  were  arched.  If  there'd  been  a  bubble  coming  out  of  his  mouth,  it  would  have  said,  &quot;Hubba  hubba.&quot;  &quot;What's  so  funny,  bright  boy?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  «You  think  I'm  comical?  You  think  I'm  some  kind  of  clown?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;You  think  you  can  fuckwith  [REDACTED];  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;Fuck  with  me  again,  you're  his-  tory.  Capeesh?&quot;  Anders  burst  out  laughing.  He  covered  his  mouth  with  both  hands  and  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I'm  sorry,&quot;  then  snorted  helplessly  through  his  fin-  gers  and  said,  &quot;Capeesh,  oh,  God,  capeesh,&quot;  and  at  that  the  man  with  the  pistol  raised  the  pistol  and  shot  Anders  rightin  the  head.  THE  bullet  smashed  Anders  skull  and  plowed  through  his  brain  and  exited  behind  his  right  ear,  scat-  tering  shards  of  bone  into  the  cerebral  cortex,  the  corpus  callosum,  back  to-  ward  the  basal  ganglia,  and  down  into  the  thalamus.  But  before  all  this  oc-  curred,  the  first  appearance  of  the  bul-  let  in  the  cerebrum  set  off  a  crackling  chain  of  ion  transports  and  neuro-  transmissions.  Because  of  their  pecu-  liar  origin,  these  traced  a  peculiar  pat-  tern,  flukishly  calling  to  life  a  summer  afternoon  some  forty  years  past,  and  long  since  lost  to  memory.  After  strik-  ing  the  cranium,  the  bullet  was  mov-  ing  at  nine  hundred  feet  per  second,  a  pathetically  sluggish,  glacial  pace  compared  with  the  synaptic  lightning  that  flashed  around  it.  Once  in  the  brain,  that  is,  the  bullet  came  under  the  mediation  of  brain  time,  which  gave  Anders  plenty  of  leisure  to  con-  template  the  scene  that,  in  a  phrase  he  would  have  abhorred,  &quot;passed  before  his  eyes.&quot;  It  is  worth  noting  what  Anders  did  not  remember,  given  what  he  did  remember.  He  did  not  remember  his  first  lover,  Sherry,  or  what  he  had  mostmadly  loved  about  her,  before  it  came  to  irritate  him-her  unembar-  rassed  carnality,  and  especially  the  cor-  dial  way  she  had  with  his  unit,  which  she  called  Mr.  Mole,  as  in  &quot;Uh-oh,  looks  like  Mr.  Mole  wants  to  play,&quot;  and  &quot;Let's  hide  Mr.  Mole!&quot;  Anders  did  not  remember  his  wife,  whom  he  had  also  loved,  before  she  exhausted  him  with  her  predictability,  or  his  daughter,  now  a  sullen  professor  of  economics  at  Dartmouth.  He  did  not  remember  standing  just  outside  his  daughter's  door  as  she  lectured  her  bear  about  his  naughtiness  and  de-  scribedthe  truly  appalling  punish-  ments  Paws  would  receive  unless  he  changed  his  ways.  He  did  not  remem-  ber  a  single  line  of  the  hundredsof  poems  he  hadcommitted  to  memory  in  his  youth  so  that  he  could  give  himself  the  shivers  at  will-not  &quot;Si-  lent,  upon  a  peak  in  Darien,&quot;or  &quot;My  God,  I  heard  this  day,&quot;  or  &quot;All  my  pretty  ones?  Did  you  say  all?  O  hell-  kite!  All?&quot;  None  of  these  did  he  re-  member;  not  one.  Anders  did  not  re-  member  his  dying  mother  saying  of  his  father,  &quot;I  should  have  stabbed  him  in  his  sleep.&quot;  He  did  not  remember  Professor  Josephs  telling  his  class  how  the  Spar-  tans  had  released  Athenian  prisoners  from  their  mines  if  they  could  re-  cite  Aeschylus,  and  then  reciting  Aeschylus  himself,  right  there,  in  the  Greek.  Anders  did  not  remember  how  his  eyes  had  burned  at  those  sounds.  He  did  not  remember  the  surprise  of  seeing  a  college  classmate's  name  on  the  jacket  of  a  novel  not  long  after  they  graduated,  or  the  respect  he  had  felt  after  reading  the  book.  He  did  not  remember  the  pleasure  of  giving  respect.  Nor  did  Anders  remember  seeing  a  woman  leap  to  her  death  from  the  buildingopposite  his  own,  just  days  after  his  daughter  was  born.  He  did  not  remember  shouting,  &quot;Lord  have  mercy!&quot;  He  did  not  remember  delib-  83  erately  crashing  his  father's  car  intoa  tree,  or  having  his  ribs  kicked  in  by  three  policemen  at  an  antiwar  rally,  or  waking  himself  up  with  laughter.  He  did  not  remember  when  he  began  to  regard  the  heapof  books  on  his  desk  with  boredom  and  dread,  or  when  he  grew  angry  at  writers  for  writing  them.  He  did  not  remember  when  ev-  erything  began  to  remind  him  of  something  else.  This  is  what  he  remembered.  Heat.  A  baseball  field.  Yellow  grass,  the  whirr  of  insects,  himself  leaning  against  a  treeas  the  boys  of  the  neighborhood  gather  for  a  pickup  game.  The  cap-  tains,  precociously  large  boys  named  Burns  and  Darsch,  argue  the  rela-  tive  genius  of  Mantle  and  Mays.  They  have  been  worrying  this  sub-  ject  all  summer,  and  it  has  become  tedious  to  Anders;  an  oppression,  like  the  heat.  Then  the  last  two  boys  arrive,  Coyle  and  a  cousin  of  his  from  [REDACTED].  Anders  has  never  met  Coyle's  cousin  before  and  will  never  see  him  again.  He  says  hi  with  the  rest  but  takes  no  further  notice  of  him  until  they've  chosen  sides  and  Darsch  asks  the  cousin  what  position  he  wants  to  play.  &quot;Shortstop,&quot;  the  boy  says.  &quot;Short's  the  best  position  they  is.&quot;  Anders  turns  and  looks  at  him.  He  wants  to  hear  Coyle's  cousin  repeat  what  he's  just  said,  but  he  knows  better  than  to  ask.  The  others  will  think  he's  being  a  jerk,  ragging  the  kid  for  his  gram-  mar.  But  that  isn't  it,  not  at  all-it's  that  Anders  is  strangely  roused,  elated,  by  those  final  two  words,  their  pure  unexpectedness  and  their  music.  He  takes  the  field  in  a  trance,  repeating  them  to  himself.  The  bullet  is  already  in  the  brain;  it  won't  be  outrun  forever,  or  charmed  toa  halt.  In  the  end,  it  will  do  its  work  and  leave  the  troubled  skull  behind,  dragging  its  comet's  tail  of  memory  and  hope  and  talent  and  love  into  the  marble  hall  of  commerce.  That  can't  be  helped.  But  for  now  Anders  can  still  make  time.  Time  for  the  shadows  to  lengthen  on  the  grass,  time  for  the  tethered  dog  to  bark  at  the  flying  ball,  time  for  the  boy  in  right  field  to  smack  his  sweat-blackened  mitt  and  softly  chant,  They  is,is,  they  is.  