 THE  WOMEN  WHO  GOT  AMAY  PIERCE  JUNCTION   was  an  isolated   New  Hampshire  _-  town  somewhat  dignified  by  the  presence  of  a  small  liberal-arts  col-  lege,  and  we  sur-  vived  by  cluster-  ing  together  like  a  ball  of  snakes  in  a  desert  cave.  The  sixties  had  taught  us  the  high  moral  value  of  copulation,  and  we  were  slow  togive  up  on  an  activ-  ity  so  simultaneously  pleasurable  and  healthy.  Still,  you  couldn't  sleep  with  ev-  erybody;  we  were  bourgeoisie,  respon-  sible,  with  jobs  and  children,  and  affairs  demanded  energy  and  extracted  wear  and  tear.  We  hadn't  learned  yet  to  take  the  emotion  out  of  sex.  Looking  back,  the  numbers  don't  add  up  to  what  an  av-  erage  college  student  now  manages  in  four  years.  There  were  women  you  failed  ever  to  sleep  with;  these,  in  retrospect,  have  a  perverse  vividness,  perhaps  be-  cause  the  contacts,  in  the  slithering  ball  of  snakes,  were  so  few  that  they  have  stayed  distinct.  &quot;Well,  Martin,&quot;  Audrey  Lancaster  murmured  to  me  toward  the  end  of  a  summer  cruise  on  a  boat  hired  out  of  Portsmouth  in  celebration  of  somebody  or  other's  fortieth  birthday,  &quot;I  see  what  they  say  about  you,  at  last.&quot;  The  &quot;at  last&quot;  was  a  sort  of  dig,  and  the  &quot;they&quot;  was  pre-  sumably  female  in  gender.  I  wondered  how  much  conversation  went  on,  and  along  lines  how  specific,  among  the  wives  and  divorcées  of  our  set.  I  had  been  standing  there  by  the  rail,  momen-  tarily  alone,  mellow  on  my  portion  of  [REDACTED]  Chablis,  watching  the  Piscat-  aqua  River  shakily  reflect  the  harbor  lights  as  the  boat  swung  to  dock  and  the  loudspeaker  system  piped  Simon  and  Garfunkel  into  the  night.  My  wife  was  slow-dancing  on  the  forward  deck  with  her  lover,  Frank  Greer.  Audrey  had  materialized  beside  me  and  my  hand  went  around  her  waist  as  if  we  might  dance,  too.  There  my  hand  stayed  and  like  the  gentle  buzz  you     BY  JOHN  UPDIKE  get  from  a  frayed  appliance  cord  the  re-  ality  of  her  haunch  burned  through  to  my  fingers,  my  palm.  She  was  a  solid,  smooth-faced  woman,  so  nearsighted  that  she  moved  with  a  certain  splay-  footed  pugnacity,  as  if  something  she  didn't  quite  see  might  knock  her  over.  Her  contact  lenses  were  always  getting  lost,  in  somebody's  lawn  or  at  the  back  of  her  eyeballs.  She  had  married  young  and  was  a  bit  younger  than  the  rest  of  us.  You  had  to  love  her,  seeing  herout  on  the  tennis  court  in  frayed  denim  cut-  offs  missing  the  ball  completely,  with  her  sturdy  brown  legs  and  big,  squinty  smile.  Her  waist  was  smooth  and  flex-  ible  in  summer  cotton,  and,  yes,  she  was  right,  for  the  first  time  in  all  our  years  of  acquaintance  I  sensed  her  as  a  poten-  tial  mate,  as  a  piece  of  the  cosmic  puzzle  that  might  fit  my  piece.  But  I  also  felt  that,  basically,  she  didn't  care  for  me,  not  enough  to  come  walkingthrough  all  those  risks  and  spasms  of  guilt,  all  those  hoops  of  flame.  She  distrusted  me,  the  way  you  distrust  a  competitor.  We  wereboth  clowns,  buck-  ingto  be  elected  Funniest  in  the  Class.  Further,  she  was  taken,  doubly:  not  only  married,  with  the  four  children  custom-  ary  for  our  generation,  but  with  a  long-  term  relationship,  murky  but  adhesive,  with  my  best  friend,  Rodney  Millee-if  one  could  be  said  to  have  same-sex  friends  in  our  rather  doctrinairely  het-  erosexual  enclave.  She  had  a  nice  way  of  drawling  out  poisonous  remarks,  and  said  now,  to  me,  &quot;Shouldn't  you  go  tell  Jeanne  and  Frank  the  boat  is  about  to  dock?  They  might  get  arrested  by  the  Portsmouth  fuzz  for  public  indecency.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Why  me?  I'm  not  the  cruise  director.&quot;  Jeanne  was  my  wife.  Her  love  for  Frank,  in  the  twisted  way  of  things  back  then,  helped  bind  me  to  her:  I  felt  so  sorry  for  her,  having  to  spend  most  of  her  hours  with  me  and  the  children  when  her  heart  was  elsewhere.  She  had  been  raised  a  French  Catholic,  and  there  was  something  noble  for  her  about  suffering  and  self-denial;  her  invisible  hair  shirt  kept  her  torso  as  erect  as  a  dancer's  and  added  to  her  beauty  in  my  eyes.  I  didn't  like  Audrey's  mocking  her,  or  did  I?  Perhaps  my  feelings  were  more  primitive,  more  stupidly  possessive,  than  I  knew  at  the  time.  I  tightened  my  grip  on  Audrey's  waist,  approaching  a  pain-  ful  pinch,  then  let  go,  and  went  forward  to  where  Jeanne  and  Frank,  the  music  stopped,  looked  as  if  they  had  just  woken  up,  with  bloated,  startled  faces.  Frank  Greer  had  been  married  to  Win-  ifred,  until  rather  recently  in  our  little  local  history.  Divorce,  which  had  been  flickering  at  our  edges  fora  decade  while  our  vast  pool  of  children  slowly  bubbled  up  through  the  school  grades  toward,  we  hoped,  psychological  stur-  diness,  was  still  rare  in  fact,  and  sat  raw  on  Frank,  like  the  red  cheek  he  had  been  pressing  against  my  wife's  as  if  against  a  sweaty  pillow.  Maureen  Miller,  in  one  of  those  in-  tervals  in  bed  when  passion  had  been  slaked  but  an  awkward  half  hour  of  us-  able  time  remained  before  I  could  in  de-  cency  sneak  away,  once  told  me  that  Winifred  resented  the  fact  that,  in  the  years  when  the  affair  between  Frank  and  Jeanne  was  common  knowledge,  I  had  never  made  a  pass  at  her.  Wini-  fred,  sometimes  called  Freddy,  was  an  owlish  small  woman-a  graceful  white  owl-with  big  dark  eyes  and  unsunned  skin  and  an  Emily  Dickinson  hairdo  atop  a  plump  body  that  tapered  to  small  and  shapely  hands  and  feet.  If  my  wife  held  herself  like  a  dancer,  it  was  her  lov-  er's  wife  who  in  fact  could  dance,  with  a  feathery  nestling  and  lightness  of  fit  that  had  an  embarrassing  erotic  effect  on  me.  Holding  her  in  my  arms,  I  would  get  an  erection,  and  thus  I  would  pru-  dently  avoid  dancing  with  her  until  the  end  of  the  evening,  when  one  or  the  other  of  us,  in  an  attempt  to  persuade  our  spouses  to  tear  themselves  apart,  would  have  put  on  an  overcoat.  Otherwise,  I  $o  was  not  attracted  to  Winifred;  like  the  Z  model  for  her  hairdo,  she  had  literary  Z  Z  ambitions,  and  a  dogmatic,  clipped,  &amp;  willfully  oblique  style.  She  seemed  in  her  4  utterances  not  exactly  angry  but  faintly  too  firm.  &quot;Well,  I  won't  say  no,&quot;  she  said,  not  altogether  graciously,  one  night  at  one  o'clock  when  Jeanne  suggested  that  I  walk  Winifred  home,  through  a  snow-  storm  that  had  developed  during  one  of  our  dinner  parties  and  its  inert,  boozy  aftermath,  with  couples  or  their  rem-  nants  drifting  off  until  just  Winifred  was  left.  She  had  a  stern,  impassive  way  of  absorbing  a  great  deal  of  liquor  and  be-  traying  its  presence  in  her  system  only  by  a  slight  lowering  of  her  heavy  blue  lids  over  her  eyes,  and  an  increase  of  pedantry  in  her  piercing,  fluting  voice.  This  was  before  the  Greers'  divorce.  Frank  was  absent  from  the  party  on  some  mysterious  excuse  of  a  business  trip;  it  was  the  first  stage  of  their  sepa-  ration,  I  realized  later.  Jeanne,  knowing  more  than  she  let  on,  had  extended  her-  self  that  night  like  a  kid  sister  to  the  unescorted  woman.  She  kept  urging  Freddy,  as  the  party  thinned,  to  give  us  one  more  tale  of  the  creative-writing  seminar  she  was  taking,  as  a  special  stu-  dent,  at  our  local  college,  Bradbury.  Bradbury  had  once  been  a  bleak  little  Presbyterian  seminary  tucked  up  here,  with  its  pillared  chapel,  in  the  foothills  of  the  White  Mountains,  but  it  had  long  loosened  its  ecclesiastical  ties  and  in  the  sixties  had  gone  coed,  with  riotous  re-  sults.  &quot;This  one  girl,&quot;  Winifred  said,  ac-  cepting  one  more  Kahléa  and  brandy,  &quot;read  a  story  that  must  have  been  very  closely  based  on  a  painful  breakup  she  had  just  gone  through,  and  got  nothing  but  the  most  sarcastic  comments  from  the  instructor,  who  must  be  a  real  sadist,  or  else  it  was  his  way  of  putting  the  make  on  her.&quot;  Her  expression  conveyed  disgust  and  great  weariness  with  all  such  transactions.  I  supposed  that  she  was  displacing  her  anger  at  Frank  onto  the  instructor,  a  New  York  poet  who  must  have  wished  he  were  back  in  the  West  Village,  where  the  sexual  revolution  was  polymorphous.  He  was  a  dreary,  sour,  condescending  fellow,  in  my  occasional  brushes  with  him,  and  disturbingly  short  as  well.  But  these  rehashed  class  sessions  were  all  fascinating  stuff,  if  you  judged  from  Jeanne's  animation  and  gleeful  en-  couragement  of  the  other  woman  to  tell  more.  It  was  a  rule  of  life  in  Pierce  Junc-  tion  that  one  was  especially  nice  to  the  lover's  spouse-by  no  means  an  insin-  cere  observance,  for  the  secret  sharing  did  breed  a  tortuous,  guilt-warmed  grati-  tude  to  the  keeper  of  such  a  treasure.  But  even  Winifred  through  her  veils  of  KahlGa  eventually  realized  that  all  things  must  have  a  stop,  and  stood  up  in  our  cold  room  (the  thermostat  had  quit  hours  ago),  and  put  her  shawl  up  around  her  head,  as  if  fluffing  up  her  feathers.  She  accepted  with  a  frown  Jeanne's  insistent  suggestion  that  I  escort  her  home.  &quot;Of  course  I'm  in  no  condi-  tion  to  drive,  this  has  been  so  lovely,&quot;  she  said  to  Jeanne,  with  a  handshake  that  Jeanne  turned  into  a  fierce,  pink-  faced,  rather  frantic  (it  seemed  to  me)  embrace  of  transposed  affection.  Win-  ifred's  car  had  been  plowed  fast  to  the  curb  by  the  passing  revolving-eyed  be-  hemoths  of  our  town  highway  depart-  ment,  and  she  lived  only  three  blocks  away,  an  uphill  slog  in  four  inches  of  fresh  snow.  She  did  seem  to  need  to  take  my  arm,  but  we  both  stayed  wrapped  in  our  own  thoughts.  The  snow  drifted  down  with  a  steady  whisper  of  its  own,  and  the  presence  on  the  streets,  at  this  profoundly  nocturnal  hour,  of  the  churning,  scraping  snowplows  made  an  effect  of  companionship-of  a  wider  party  beneath  the  low  sky,  which  was  glowing  yellow  with  that  strange,  secre-  tive  phosphorescence  of  a  snowstorm.  The  houses  were  dark,  and  my  porch  light  grew  smaller,  receding  down  the  hill.  In  front  of  her  own  door,  right  un-  der  a  street  lamp,  Winifred  turned  to  face  me  as  if,  in  our  muffling  clothes,  to  dance;  but  it  was  only  to  offer  her  pale,  oval,  rather  frozen  and  grieving  face  up  to  me  to  kiss,  with  snowflakes  caught  in  the  long  lashes  of  her  closed  lids  and  spangling  the  arc  of  parted  dark  hair  left  exposed  by  her  shawl.  I  felt  the  usual  arousal.  The  house  behind  her  held  only  sleeping  children.  Its  clapboard  face,  needing  a  coat  of  paint,  looked  a  bit  shabby,  as  if  betraying  the  distracted  marriage  within.  There  was,  in  Pierce  Junction,  a  romance  of  other  couples'  houses-the  merged  tastes,  the  accumu-  lated  furniture,  the  framed  photographs  going  back  to  the  bridal  day.  We  loved  being  guests  and  hostsboth.  Did  she  ex-  pect  me  to  come  in?  It  didn't  strike  me  as  at  all  a  feasible  idea-at  my  back,  down  the  hill,  Jeanne  would  be  busy  ti-  dying  up  the  party  wreckage  in  our  liv-  ing  room  and  resting  a  despairing  eye  on  the  kitchen  clock  with  its  sweeping  red  second  hand.  Tiny  stars  of  ice  clotted  T9  my  own  lashes  as  I  kissed  our  guest  good  night,  square  on  the  mouth  but  lightly,  lightly,  with  liquor-glazed  subtleties  of  courteous  regret.  Of  all  the  kisses  I  gave  and  received  in  Pierce  Junction,  from  children  and  adults  and  golden  retriev-  ers,  that  chaste,  crystalline  one  has  stuck  in  my  mind.  When  I  returned  to  the  house,  Frank,  surprisingly,  was  sitting  in  the  living  room,  holding  abeer  and  wearing  a  rumpled  suit,  his  long  face  pink  as  if  after  great  exertion.  Jeanne,  almost  too  tired  to  be  flustered,  explained,  &quot;Frank  just  got  back  from  his  trip,  the  plane  in  to  the  Manchester  airport  almost  didn't  land,  and  when  he  found  Freddy  not  at  their  home  he  thought  he'd  swing  down  here  and  pick  her  up.&quot;  &quot;Up  and  down  that  hill  in  this  bliz-  zard?&quot;  I  marvelled.  I  didn't  remember  any  car  going  by.  &quot;We  have  four-wheel  drive,&quot;  Frank  said,  as  if  that  explained  everything.  AUREEN  could  be  a  raucous  tease.  Her  rangy  body  was  wide  but  not  deep-she  had  broad  hips  but  shal-  low  breasts-and  all  summer  she  bore  around  the  base  of  her  neck  a  brown  loop  of  sunburn,  freckled  and  flaking,  from  working  in  her  garden  ina  peas-  ant  blouse  and  no  sun  hat.  A  redhead,  she  remained  loyal  to  the  Jong,  ironed  hair  of  the  flower-child  era  years  after  the  flower  children  had  gone  under-  ground  or  crazy  or  back  to  their  parents.  When  I  described  these  events  to  her,  leaving  out  the  odd  physiological  effect  that  holding  Winifred  in  my  arms  al-  ways  produced,  Maureen  laughed  and  tossed  her  mane  as  if  about  to  devour  me  with  her  prominent  white  teeth.  &quot;Jeanne  is  incredible,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Imag-  ine  setting  a  date  with  your  boyfriend  at  one  in  the  morning  in  the  faith  that  your  husband  would  be  off  sleeping  with  the  guy's  wife!  It  sounds  as  though  the  snowstorm  held  everything  up-that's  why  she  kept  egging  Freddy  to  stay.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  believe,&quot;  I  said,  as  primly  as  I  could  while  wearing  no  clothes,  propped  up  in  her  bed  with  a  cigarette  and  a  glass  of  rasping  dark  vermouth,  &quot;that  things  are  as  cold-blooded  and  as,  as  set-up  as  that.  My  guess  is  he  swung  by  because  he  thought  the  party  was  still  on.&quot;  &quot;But  he  could  see  there  weren't  any  cars!&quot;  &quot;Ah,&quot;  I  said,  in  modest  triumph,  80  &quot;Freddy's  car  was  out  front,  plowed  in.&quot;  &quot;Plowing,  that's  the  theme,&quot;  Maureen  said.  &quot;  If  ye  had  not  plowed  with  my  heifer'-what?-'ye  had  not  found  out  my  riddle.'&quot;  She  and  Rodney  had  met  at  a  summer  Bible  school,  and  Rodney  still  retained  the  well-combed,  boyish  shine  of  a  future  missionary.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  she  wenton  gaily,  giving  the  bed  such  a  bounce  that  I  spilled  vermouth  into  the  hairs  of  my  chest,  where-damn'!-Jeanne  might  smell  it,  &quot;I  can  see  you  feel  you  let  Freddy  down,  but  don't.  She's  screwing  that  odious  lit-  tle  New  York  poet,  every-  body  at  Bradbury  says.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  tell  me  all  this.  I'd  like  to  keep  some  innocence.&quot;  &quot;Martin,  you  Zove  it,  you  love  knowing  all  the  dirt,&quot;  she  told  me,  and  nuzzled  at  the  spilled  vermouth  with  a  faceless,  thrusting,  leonine  seriousness  that  rather  frightened  me.  I  fought  her  off  by  finding  her  ears  in  all  that  hair  and  using  them  as  handles  to  pull  her  head  up  from  my  chest.  Her  face,  thus  tugged  back,  with  uplifted  up-  per  lip  and  slit  eyes,  reminded  me  of  Winifred's  held  to  be  kissed  in  the  snow,  and  of  a  death  mask.  Maureen's  was  not  one  of  those  female  bodies  that  hid  its  bones,  its  lean  doomed  hunger.  Laugh-  ing,  but  hard-eyed,  spiteful  though  play-  ful,  she  said,  &quot;Rodney  says  you're  just  like  a  woman,  you'reso  nosy.&quot;  This  hurt  me  and  aroused  me.  Rodney  and  I  were  severely  discreet,  talking  about  nothing  but  our  mutual  activities-golf,  poker,  tennis,  skiing.  We  didn't  even  talk  politics,  at  the  height  of  [REDACTED]  and  then  through  Nixon's  prolonged  downfall.  Yet  it  was  stirring,  to  think  of  Maureen  and  Rodney  talking  about  me,  in  their  mari-  tal  intimacy.  &quot;Like  a  woman,  am  I?&quot;  I  said,  growling  and  wrestling  her  under,  to  reverse  our  positions  in  the  bed,  that  guest-room  bed  I  knew  so  well,  a  ma-  hogany  four-poster,  with  removable  pineapples  topping  each  post.  Maureen's  shrieks  of  resistance  and  amusement  rang  through  the  oalk-floored  rooms  of  her  Victorian  house  and  out,  I  feared,  into  the  street.  Pierce  Junction  was  a  town  of  secrets  that  kept  leaking  out,  like  sawdust  from  a  termite-ridden  beam.  There  were  all     these  tiny  wormholes,  with  a  flicker  of  life  at  the  end  of  each.  When  Jeanne  learned  of  my  affair  with  Maureen,  she  reacted  with  a  surge  of  fury  that  surprised  me,  since  I  had  been  putting  up  with  her  and  Frank  for  years.  Unforgivably,  she  demonstrated  her  anger  by  storming  over  to  the  Millers  and  telling  Rodney  everything.  Maureen,  with  her  pious  streak,  worked  Wednesdays  and  Satur-  days  at  a  Methodist  home  for  delin-  quent  children  in  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  the  telephone  company's  efficiency,  list-  ing  nonlocal  calls  by  town  and  number,  that  had  given  our  liaison  away.  When  I  try  to  recall  our  passion,  it  comes  not  with  X-rated  im-  ages  of  our  hours  in  bed  but  with  a  certain  dull  taste,  the  madeleine  of  an  especially  desolate  minute  in  an  idle  day,  the  longing  that  made  me,  of  a  dull  and  hollow  af  ternoon,  insatiably  crave  the  sound  of  her  voice-lower  and  huskier  over  the  phone,  more  thoughtfully  mu-  sical,  than  it  seemed  when  we  were  face-  to-face.  Her  voice  momentarily  pushed  aside  the  sore  dread  in  which  I  lived  in  those  years;  her  voice,  and  its  little  harsh  inspirations  of  perception,  painted  the  world,  which  seemed  to  me  rimmed  with  a  vague  terror,  in  bright,  fearless  colors.  Hearing  Maureen  reassuringly  laugh,  as  if  we  were  all  caught  in  a  deli-  cious,  precarious  joke,  was  a  slaking  of  a  thirst  that  weighed  in  my  throat  like  an  iron  bar.  Without  her  in  it  some-  where,  at  least  as  a  voice  over  the  tele-  phone,  the  world  lacked  a  center.  I  hed  to  talk  to  her,  though  the  phone  bill  did  us  in.  The  hunger  was  not  only  mine  but  pervaded  our  circle  with  the  pathos  of  unsatisfied  need:  poor  Jeanne  and  Frank,  stealing  that  silly  half  hour  in  the  bliz-  zard.  Maureen  for  me  was  like  a  campfire  whose  light  made  the  encir-  cling  darkness  seem  absolute,  and  whose  heat  became  a  sharp  chill  a  few  paces  from  its  immediate  vicinity.  Jeanne  didn't  come  back  from  her  in-  terview  with  Rodney  for  hours.  Not  im-  mediately,  but  after  some  days  had  worn  us  down  to  skeletons  of  weary  honesty,  she  confessed  that,  Maureen  being  ab-  sent,  she  had  slept  with  him,  in  some  delirium  of  revenge,  though  he  had  been  reluctant.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  OCTOBER  9,  1995  &quot;One  of  Maureen's  sadnesses,&quot;  I  told  her,  &quot;was  always  that  he  was  so  faithful,  so  satisfied  by  her.  Or  so  she  thought.&quot;  &quot;How  funny  of  her.  You  remember  that  period  when  Winifred  and  Frank  were  just  breaking  up,  and  Freddy  was  wildly  on  the  make?  I  was  sure  she  was  going  to  seduce  you,  that  snowy  night.  Well,  Rodney  was  the  only  man  around  here  who  didn't  disappoint  her-who  lived  up  to  her  self-image.  Apparently  she  is  very  sexy.  Rodney  said  he  was  rather  put  off  by  his  sensation  that  at  that  point  in  time-I  sound  like  Nixon-  she  would  fuck  anybody.  I  wish  he  hadn't  told  me-even  Frank  doesn't  know,  and  I  hate  having  a  secret  from  Jizz.&quot;  &quot;Such  beautiful  scruples,&quot;  said  I.  &quot;Go  ahead,  mock.  I  deserve  it,  I  guess.&quot;  &quot;My  martyr.  My  Jeanne  in  the  flames,&quot;  I  said,  hardly  able  to  wait  until  I  could  take  her  to  bed  and  discover  how  new  knowledge  had  enriched  her.  Yet  we  did  divorce,  in  painful  piece-  meal,  as  did  Maureen  and  Rodney.  I  moved  to  Nashua,  but  would  return  to  Pierce  Junction  to  visit  the  children,  take  Jeanne's  temperature,  and  play  my  old  games.  One  poker  night,  rather  than  let-  ting  me  drive  back  to  Nashua  full  of  beer,  Rodney  had  me  to  his  bachelor  shack,  up  in  the  hills,  at  the  end  of  a  mile  of  dirt  road.  While  waiting  for  my  turn  to  use  the  bathroom  I  saw  a  note  care-  lessly  left  on  his  cluttered  desk.  The  rounded,  upright  handwriting,  with  its  &quot;a's  oddly  like  &quot;o&quot;s,  struck  me  as  momentously  familiar;  Audrey  Lan-  caster  had  been  the  secretary  of  a  con-  servation  committee  I  once  served  on.  &quot;Another  fool's  errand,&quot;  it  read.  &quot;Did  I  misunderstand,  or  has  Friar  Lawrence  goofed  again?  Now  my  van  is  dusty  and  my  legs  full  of  mosquito  bites  from  an  hour  on  your  porch.  Some  damn  bird  in  your  woods  was  trying  to  deliver  a  mes-  sage  in  English  but  couldn't  quite  make  it  out  of  birdsong.  Yours,  sort  of.  Yes?&quot;  Unsigned.  A  thumbtack  hole  where  it  had  been  pinned  up  outside.  A  blue-  lined  page  torn,  with  an  anger  visible  in  the  tearing,  from  a  college  note-  book.  It  brought  me  thrillingly  close  to  Audrey,  as  close  as  the  night  I  had  rested  my  palm  on  her  haunch.  She  had  come  up  that  gloomy  dirt  road  through  the  forest  like  a  big  smooth  salmon  upstream,  and  ignominiously  driven  back  down  again.  Her  literary  allusion  THE  WOMEN  WHO  GOT  AYVAY  seemed  more  like  Winifred,  somehow.  When  Rodney  emerged  innocently  from  the  bathroom,  wearing  little-boy  cotton  pajamas  and  a  fleck  of  toothpaste  on  his  chin,  I  hated  him  as  I  never  had  in  those  years  of  entering  his  house,  past  his  lawnmower  and  oil  cans  in  the  ga-  rage,  through  the  kitchen  where  he  gobbled  breakfast  every  day,  past  the  shelf  of  his  golf  trophies,  toward  the  mahogany  guest  bed.  While  some  of  us  burned  on  the  edges  of  life,  insatiable  and  straining  to  see  more  deeply  in,  he  sat  complacently  at  the  center  and  let  life  come  to  him-so  much  of  it,  evi-  dently,  that  he  could  not  keep  track  of  his  appointments.  Down  in  Nashua,  as  the  seventies  ran  out,  I  lost  track  of  the  ins  and  outs  of  life  in  Pierce  Junction.  The  possibility  that  Maureen  and  I  might  get  together  on  a  respectable  basis  had  been  early  dis-  missed  by  her.  Too  many  children,  too  much  financial  erosion,  too  much  water  over  the  dam.  &quot;Don't  you  see,  Marty?&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;We've  done  it.  We'd  look  at  each  other  and  all  we'd  see  would  be  evidence  of  our  sin.&quot;  The  quaint  last  word  shocked  me  with  the  possibility  that  she-and  Jeanne,  and  all  the  women-had  been  suffering,  in  our  sexual  paradise.  I  felt  insulted.  So  it  was  with,  among  other  things,  a  pang  of  vengeful  satisfaction  that  I  heard  of  her  sudden  death,  in  a  car  driven  lateat  night  along  [REDACTED]  by,  of  all  people,  Spike  Lancaster,  a  beefy,  loud,  hard-drinking  restaura-  teur  whose  plain  deficiencies  had  given  Audrey,  in  our  little  set,  a  nim-  bus  of  long  suffering  and  therefore  of  excusability.  Spike  and  Audrey  had  nothing  in  common  but  bad  eyesight.  He,  the  driver,  came  out  of  the  crash  with  minor  injuries  and  a  rakish  repu-  tation  that  probably  didn't  hurt  busi-  ness  in  his  roadside  restaurant-  called,  actually,  the  Lucky  Shamrock.  I  could  hardly  believe  that,  after  sublime  us,  Maureen  could  have  taken  up  with  this  brute,  this  simple  ton.  Served  her  right,  getting  her  neck  broken  against  a  dashboard,  that  slender  neck  springing  with  its  pulse  from  a  circle  of  sunburn.  These  ugly,  unworthy  thoughts  lasted  only  a  sec-  ond,  of  course-a  lightning  flicker  of  amoral  neurons  before  the  gentle  rain  of  decent  sadness  began.  But  her  death,  and  this  final  scandal,  with  its  black  skidmarks  and  shattering  safety  glass,  did  shut  down  Pierce  Junction  for  me.  Jeanne  and  Frank  married,  and  I  edged  into  a  second  life,  with  a  second  wife  and  new  children.  My  own  children  continued  to  grow,  went  to  college,  married,  and  moved  away.  I  had  fewer  and  fewer  reasons  to  return;  when  I  did,  the  town's  geography,  little  changed,  seemed  to  contain  the  same  old  currents,  but  the  wires  were  different,  the  faces,  and  the  old  wormholes,  if  they  still  ex-  isted,  were  out  of  sight,  running  through  younger  lives.  The  sixties  had  gone  from  being  the  century's  age  to  being  ours.  When  I  thought  back,  to  our  hectic,  somehow  sacred  heyday,  it  was,  asI  say,  less  in  terms  of  the  women  closest  to  me  than  of  those  in  the  middle  distance,  vir-  ginal,  who  had  taken  the  siren  call  of  the  unknown  with  them  as  they  disappeared  over  my  social  horizon.  A  mall  had  sprung  up  between  Nashua  and  Pierce  Junction,  on  the  site  of  a  dairy  farm  whose  silver-tipped  silos  I  still  expected  tosee  gleaming  at  that  particular  turn  of  the  highway.  Instead,  there  was  explosively  fragmented  glit-  ter-chain  stores  in  postmodern  glass  skins,  and  a  vast  asphalt  meadow  paved  with  cars.  Intending  to  buy  a  grandchild  a  birthday  present  at  one  of  those  toy  emporia  with  the  queerly  reversed  &quot;R,&quot;  I  was  traversing  the  insistently  musical  81  reaches  of  an  enclosed  arcade  lined  with  name-brand  stores  and  dotted  with  underpatronized  kiosks  offering  tinselly  jewelry,  exotic  herbal  teas,  and  candy  and  yogurt-coated  pretzels  in  cloudy  plastic  bins,  when  I  saw  in  the  middle  distance  an  unmistakable  walli-splay-  footed,  wary,  yet  determinedly  forward  and,  to  my  eyes,  enticingly  youthful.  1  ducked  into  a  Gap  outlet  and,  concealed  amid  sheaves  of  softened  denim  and  earth-tone  turtlenecks,  gazed  out  as  Audrey,  plumper  and  gray  but  still  supple,  passed.  The  contact  lenses  that  she  was  always  losing  had  given  way  to  cheerfully  clunky  thick  glasses.  She  was  squinting  and  smiling  and  talking  with  animation,  moving  that  flexible  mur-  murous  wide  mouth  of  hers.  Her  pants-wearing  companion,  with  a  feathery  short  white  hairdo  and  a  quilted  down  vest,  for  a  moment  seemed  a  complete  stranger,  a  solemnly  pouting  miniature  man.  But  then,  with  a  stab  of  recognition  that  set  off  a  senile  stir  of  excitement  behind  my  fly  and  jumped  me  a  step  further  back  from  the  win-  dow,  I  saw;  there  was  of  course  no  mis-  taking  the  barrel-shaped  owl  body,  the  hooded  dark  eyes,  the  dainty  extremi-  ties.  Winifred.  She  and  Audrey  moved  with  the  dreamy,  assimilated  mutual  submission  of  an  old  married  couple.  They  were  holding  hands. 