CINNAMON  SKIN  WHEN  I  was  a  kid,  I  was  a  Buddhist  andan  atheist,  but  I  kept  making  bar-  gains  with  God:  if  he'd  fulfill  a  particular  wish,  I'd  agree  to  believe  in  him.  He  always  came  through,  but  I  still  withheld  my  faith,  which  shows,  perhaps,  how  unreasonable  rationality  can  be.  One  of  God's  miracles  occurred  when  I  was  thirteen.  I  was  spending  most  of  that  year  with  my  fatherin  [REDACTED];  my  mother,  a  psychologist,  thought  I  needed  the  proximity  of  a  man,  even  though  my  father  then  ignored  me  and  was  uninterested  in  teaching  me  base-  ball  or  tennis,  sports  in  which  he  ex-  celled.  My  father  and  stepmother  were  going  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  winter  holiday  that  would  not,  alas,  fall  during  my  Christmas  school  break,  although  it  was  unlikelythat  he  would  have  invited  me  even  if  I  had  been  free,  since  the  divorce  agreement  specified  nothingabout  win-  ter  vacations.  One  long  weekend,  I  re-  turned  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  my  mother  and  sister,  and  fell  on  my  knees  beside  my  bed  in  the  dark  and  prayed  that  I'd  be  invited  to  come  along  anyway.  The  next  morning  my  mother  received  a  telegram  from  my  father  asking  me  to  join  him  in  [REDACTED]  the  following  day  for  a  three-week  car  trip  to  [REDACTED].  He'd  already  obtained  advance  assign-  ments  from  my  teachers;.  he  would  su-  pervise  my  homework.  My  mother  had  a  phobia  about  speak-  ing  to  my  father,  and  spent  thirty-five  years  without  ever  hearing  his  voice.  If  vocal  communication  was  forbidden,  the  exchange  of  cordial  but  brief  tactical  notes  or  telegrams  was  acceptable,  pro-  vided  it  didn't  occur  regularly.  My  moth-  er's  generation  believed  in  something  called  character,  and  it  was  established  through  self-discipline.  Anyway,  my  mother  suggested  that  I  phone  my  fa-  ther,  since  court  etiquette  prevented  her  from  doing  so.     BY  EDMUND  WHITE  The  next  day  I  took  the  train  to  Cin-  cinnati;  it  was  the  James  Whitcomb  Riley,  named  after  the  Hoosier  Poet  (&quot;When  the  frost  is  on  the  punkin,&quot;  one  of  his  odes  begins).  At  the  end  of  each  car,  there  were  not  scenes  of  rural  Indi-  ana,  as  one  might  have  expected,  but,  instead,  large  reproductions  of  French  Impressionist  paintings-hayricks,  water  lilies,  Notre-Dame,  mothers  and  chil-  dren  er  fZeurs  ...  This  train,  which  I  took  twice  a  month  to  visit  my  dad  when  I  was  living  with  my  mom,  or  to  visit  Mom  when  I  was  living  with  Dad,  was  the  great  forcing  shed  of  my  imagi-  nation:  no  one  knew  me;  I  was  free  to  become  anyone.  I  told  one  startled  neighbor  that  I  was  English  and  in  [REDACTED]  for  the  first  time,  affecting  an  accent  so  obviously  fabricated  and  snob-  bish  that  it  eventually  provoked  a  smile.  I  told  another  I  had  leukemia  but  was  in  remission.  Another  time  I  said  that  both  my  parents  had  just  died  in  a  car  crash,  and  I  was  going  to  live  with  a  bachelor  uncle.  Once  I  chatted  up  a  handsome  young  farmer,  his  face  stiff  under  its  burn,  his  T-shirt  incapable  of  containing  the  black  hair  sprouting  up  from  under  it;  he  inspired  a  tragic  opera  that  I  started  writing  the  next  week;  it  was  called  &quot;Orville.&quot;  On  this  trip,  my  imagination  was  busy  with  a  thick  guidebook  on  Mex-  ico  I'd  checked  out  of  the  public  library.  I  read  everything  I  could  about  Toltecs,  Aztecs,  and  Mayans;  but  the  astrology  bored  me,  as  did  the  bloody  attacks  and  counterattacks,  and  one  century  blended  into  another  without  a  single  individual's  emerging  out  of  the  plumed  hordes  until  the  tragic  Montezuma  (a  new  op-  era  subject,  even  more  heartrending  than  Orville,  whose  principal  attribute  had  been  a  smell  of  Vitalis  hair  tonic  and,  more  subtly,  of  starch  and  ironing,  a  quality  difficult  to  render  musically).  THE  year  was  1953;  my  father  and  stepmother  rode  in  the  front  of  his  new,  massive  Cadillac-shiny  pale-  blue  metal  and  chrome  and,  inside,  an  oiled,  dark-blue  leather  with  shag  car-  pet-and  I  had  so  much  space  in  the  back  seat  that  I  could  stretch  out  full  length,  slightly  nauseated  from  the  ci-  gars  that  my  father  chain-smoked  and  his  interminable  monologues  about  the  difference  between  stocks  and  bonds.  While  in  the  States,  he  listenedto  broadcasts  of  the  news,  the  stock  re-  ports,  and  sporting  events,  three  forms  of  impersonal  entertainment  that  I  con-  sidered  to  be  as  tedious  as  the  Toltecs'  battles.  I  layin  the  back  seat,  knocking  my  legs  together  in  an  agony  of  unreleased  desire.  My  head  filled  with  vague  day-  dreams,  as  randomly  rotating  as  the  clouds  I  could  see  up  above  through  the  back  window.  In  those  days,  the  speed  limit  was  higher  than  now  and  the  roads  were  just  two-lane  meanders;  there  was  no  radar  and  no  computers,  and  if  a  cop  stopped  us  for  speeding  my  father  tucked  a  five-dollar  bill  under  his  license  and  instantly  we  were  urged  on  our  way  with  a  cheerful  wave  and  a  &quot;Y'all  come  back,  yuh  heah?&quot;  My  father  then  re-  sumed  his  murderous  speed,  lunging  and  turning  and  braking  and  swearing,  and  I  hid  so  I  wouldn't  witness,  white-  knuckled,  the  near-disasters.  As  night  fell,  the  same  popular  song,  the  theme  song  from  the  film  &quot;Moulin  Rouge,&quot;  was  played  over  and  over  again  on  sta-  tion  after  station,  like  a  flame  being  passed  feebly  from  torch  to  torch  in  a  casual  marathon.  We  stopped  in  Austin,  [REDACTED],  to  see  my  grandfather,  who  was  retired  and  living  alone  in  a  small  wooden  house  he  rented.  He  was  famous  locally  for  his  &quot;nigger&quot;  jokes,  which  he  collected  in  self-published  books  with  titles  such  as  &quot;Let's  Laugh,&quot;  &quot;Senegambian  Sizzles,&quot;  &quot;Folks  Are  Funny,&quot;  and  &quot;Chocolate  Drops  from  the  South,&quot;  and  he  made  fun  of  me  for  saying  &quot;Cue&quot;  Klux  Klan  instead  of  &quot;Koo&quot;-an  organization  he'd  once  belonged  to,  and  accepted  as  a  harm-  less  if  stern  fraternity.  He  was  dull,  like  ANDERS  WENNGREN  my  father,  though  my  father  was  dif-  ferent:  whereas  my  grandfather  was  gre-  garious  but  disgustingly  self-absorbed,  my  father  was  all  facts,  all  business,  mis-  anthropic,  his  racism  genial  and  conde-  scending,  though  his  anti-Semitism  was  virulent  and  reeked  of  hate.  He  wanted  as  little  contact  as  possible  with  other  people.  And  while  he  liked  women,  he  regarded  them  as  silly  and  flighty  and  easy  to  seduce;  they  excited  men  but  weren't  themselves  sexual,  although  eas-  ily  tricked  into  bed.  Men  he  despised,  even  boys.  MY  stepmother,  Kay,  was  &quot;cockeyed  and  harelipped,&quot;  according  to  my  mother,  although  the  truth  was  she  simply  had  a  lazy  eye  that  wandered  in  and  out  of  focus  and  an  everted  upper  lip  that  rose  on  one  side  like  JudyGar-  land's  whenever  she  hit  a  high  note.  Kay  read  constantly,  anything  at  all;  she'd  put  down  &quot;Forever  Amber&quot;  to  pick  up  &quot;War  and  Peace,&quot;  trade  in  &quot;Désirée&quot;  for  &quot;Ma-  dame  Bovary,&quot;  but  the  next  day  she  couldn't  remember  a  thing  about  what  she'd  been  reading.  My  father,  who  never  finished  a  book,  always  said,  when  the  subject  of  literature  came  up,  &quot;You'll  have  to  ask  Kay  about  that.  She's  the  reader  in  this  family.&quot;  He  thought  nov-  els  were  useless,  even  corrupting;  if  he  caught  me  reading  he'd  find  me  a  chore  to  do,  such  as  raking  the  lawn.  My  father  liked  long-legged  red-  heads  in  high  heels  and  short  nighties,  if  his  addiction  to  Esquire  and  its  il-  lustrations  was  any  indication,  but  my  stepmother  was  short  and  dumpy,  like  my  mother,  though  less  intelligent.  She'd  been  brought  up  on  a  farm  in  northern  [REDACTED]  by  a  scrawny  father  in  bib  overalls  and  a  pretty,  calm,  round-  faced  mother  from  [REDACTED]  Dutch  country,  who  said  &quot;mind&quot;  for  &quot;remem-  ber.&quot;  (&quot;Do  you  mind  that  time  we  went  to  the  caves  in  Kentucky?&quot;)  Kay  had  done  well  in  elocution  class,  and  even  now  she  could  recite  mindless  doggerel  with  ringing  authority-and  with  the  sort  of  steely  diction  and  hearty  pro-  jection  that  are  impossible  to  tune  out.  She  could  paint-watercolors  of  lit-  tle  Japanese  maidens  all  ina  row,  or  kittens  or  pretty  flowers-and  her  love  of  art  led  her  to  be  a  volunteer  at  the  art  museum,  where  she  worked  three  hours  a  week  in  the  gift  shop  run  by  the  Ladies'  Auxiliary.  Oh,  she  had  lots  of  activities  and  belonged  to  plenty  of  clubs-the  Ladies'  Luncheon  Club  and  the  Queen  City  Club  and  the  Keyboard  Club.  Kay  had  spent  her  twenties  and  thir-  ties  being  a  shrewd,  feisty  office  &quot;gal&quot;  who  let  herself  be  picked  up  by  big  bored  businessmen  out  for  a  few  laughs  and  a  roll  in  the  hay  with  a  good  sport.  She  always  had  ajoke  or  a  wisecrack  to  dish  up,  she'd  learned  how  to  defend  herself  against  a  grabby  drunk,  and  she  always  knew  the  score.  I'm  not  sure  how  I  acquired  this  information  about  her  early  life.  Probably  from  my  mother,  who  branded  Kay  a  Jezebel,  an  unattrac-  tive  woman  with  secret  sexual  power,  someone  like  Wallis  Simpson.  After  Kay  married  my  father,  however,  and  moved  up  a  whole  lot  of  social  rungs,  she  pretended  to  be  shocked  by  the  very  jokes  she  used  to  deliver.  She  adopted  the  endearingly  dopey  manner  of  the  so-  ciety  matron  immortalized  in  Helen  E.  Hokinson's  New  Yorker  cartoons.  Dad  gave  her  an  expensive  watch  that  dan-  gled  upside  down  from  a  brooch  (so  that  only  Kay  could  read  it),  which  she  pinned  to  her  lapel:  a  bow  of  white  and  yellow  gold  studded  with  beautiful  lapis  lazuli.  Her  skirts  became  longer,  her  voice  softer,  her  hair  grayer,  and  she  re-  placed  her  native  sassiness  with  an  ac-  quired  innocence.  She'd  always  been  cunning  rather  than  intelligent,  but  now  she  appeared  to  become  naive  as  well,  which  in  our  milieu  was  a  sign  of  wealth:  only  rich  women  were  sheltered;  only  the  overprotected  were  unworldly.  As  my  real  mother  learned  to  fend  for  her-  self,  my  stepmother  learned  to  feign  incompetence.  Such  astute  naiveté,  of  course,  was  only  for  public  performance.  At  home,  Kay  was  as  crafty  as  ever.  She  speculated  out  loud  about  other  people's  motives  and  pieced  together  highly  unflattering  scenarios  based  on  the  slimmest  evidence.  Every  act  of  kindness  was  considered  secretly  ma-  nipulative,  any  sign  of  generosity  pro-  foundly  selfish.  She  quizzed  me  for  hours  about  my  mother's  finances  (turbulent)  and  love  life  (usually  nonexistent,  some-  times  disastrous).  She  was,  of  course,  hop-  ing  that  Mother  would  remarry  so  Dad  wouldn't  have  to  pay  out  the  monthly  ali-  mony.  My  sister  was  disgusted  that  I'd  be-  tray  our  mother's  secrets,  but  Kay  be-  99  witched  me.  We  had  few  entertainments  and  spent  long,  tedious  hours  together  in  the  stifling  [REDACTED]  summer  heat,  and  Td  been  so  carefully  sworn  to  silence  by  my  mother  that,  finally,  when  one  thing  came  out,  I  told  all.  I  was  thrilled  to  have  a  promise  to  break.  AY  and  my  father  fought  all  the  time.  She'd  pester  him  to  do  something  or  challenge  him  over  a  trivial  question  of  fact  until  he  exploded:  &quot;God  damn  it,  Kay,  shut  your  goddam  mouth,  you  don't  know  what  the  hell  you're  talking  about,  and  I  don't  want  to  hear  one  more  goddam  word  out  of  your  mouth!  I'm  warning  you  to  shut  it  and  shut  it  now.  Got  it?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  E.V.,&quot;  she  wailed  (his  nick-  name;  his  middle  name  was  Valentine),  &quot;you  don't  have  to  talk  to  me  that  way,  you're  making  me  sick,  physically  sick,  my  heart  is  pounding,  and,  look,  I'm  sweating  freely,  I'msoaked  right  through,  my  underarms  are  drenched,  and  you  know-my  high  A/ood  pressure.&quot;  Here  she'd  break  off  and  begin  blubbering.  She  had  only  to  invoke  her  blood  pres-  sure  (&quot;IT'wo  hundred  and  fifty  over  a  hundred  and  ten,&quot;  she'd  mysteriously  confide)  in  order  to  win  the  argument  and  subdue  my  red-faced  father.  I  pic-  tured  the  two  of  them  as  thermometers  in  which  the  mounting  mercury  was  about  to  explode  through  the  upper  tip.  Kay  constantly  referredto  her  imminent  death,  often  adding,  &quot;Well,  I  won't  be  around  much  longer  to  irritate  you  with  my  remarks,  which  you  find  so  stupid  and  ignorant.&quot;  My  father  filled  his  big  house  with  Mahler,  and  played  it  throughout  the  night;  he  went  to  sleep  at  dawn.  And  the  more  socially  successful  Kay  became  the  less  she  conformed  to  his  hours.  They  scarcely  saw  each  other.  During  the  hot  [REDACTED]  days,  while  Daddy  slept  in  his  air-conditioned  room,  Kay  and  I  spent  the  idle  hours  talking  to  each  other.  I  bit  my  nails;  she  paid  me  a  dollar  a  nail  to  let  them  grow.  When  they  came  in,  I  decided  I  wanted  them  longer  and  longer  and  shaped  like  a  woman's;  Kay  promised  to  cut  them  as  I  desired,  but  each  time  she  tricked  me  and  trimmed  them  short  while  I  whined  my  feeble  protests:  &quot;Cmon.  I  want  them  long  and  pointy.  ...  Kay!  You  promised!&quot;  I  danced  for  her  in  my  100  underpants;  once  I  did  an  elaborate  (and  very  girly)  striptease.  As  I  became  more  and  more  feminine,  she  became  increasingly  masculine.  She  put  one  leg  up  and  planted  her  foot  on  the  chair  seat,  hugging  her  knee  to  her  chest  as  a  guy  might.  I  felt  I  was  dancing  for  a  man.  Perhaps  she  watched  me  because  she  was  bored  and  had  nothing  else  to  do.  Or  perhaps  she  knew  these  games  at-  tached  me  to  her  with  thrilling,  erotic  bonds;  in  the  rivalry  with  my  mother  for  my  affections,  she  was  winning.  Or  perhaps  she  got  off  on  me.  I  re-  member  that  she  gave  me  long  massages  with  baby  oil  as  I  lay  on  the  [REDACTED].  The  restaurant  had  a  mural  by  Miro  and  French  food.  Daddy  drank  a  lot  of  wineand  told  me  I  had  my  mother's  big  brown  eyes.  He  said  boys  my  age  were  rather  like  girls.  He  said  there  wasn't  much  difference  between  boys  and  girls  my  age.  I  was  thrilled.  I  tried  to  be  warm  and  intuitive  and  seductive.  NOW,  as  we  approached  the  Mexican  border,  Kay  started  teasing  me:  &quot;I  hope  you  have  on  very  clean  under-  pants,  Eddie,  because  the  Mexican  po-  lice  strip-search  every  tourist  and  if  they  find  skid  marks  in  your  Jockey  shorts  they  may  not  let  you  in.&quot;  Formica  kitchen  tablein  *  My  father  thought  this  my  underpants,  and  I  was  a  terrific  joke  and  with  sprang  a  boner.  Her  black  his  thin-lipped  smile  nod-  maid  watched  us  and  ded  slowly  and  muttered,  smiled  benignly.  Her  name  &quot;She's  serious,  and  she's  a  was  Naomi  and  she'd  hundred  per  cent  right.&quot;  worked  for  Kay  one  day  a  roy,  Although  I  worried  week  ironing  before  Kay  married;  afterward  she  moved  in  as  a  full-time,  live-in  employee  in  my  father's  big  house.  She  knew  Kay's  earlier  incar-  nation  as  a  roaring  girl  and  no  doubt  wondered  how  far  she'd  go  now.  In  fact,  she  went  very  far.  Once  when  I  told  her  I  was  constipated  she  had  me  mount  the  Formica  table  on  all  fours  and  administered  a  hot-water  enema  out  of  a  blue  rubber  pear  she  filled  and  emp-  tied  three  times  before  permitting  me  to  go  to  the  toilet  and  squirt  it  out.  My  whole  family  was  awash  with  in-  cestuous  desires.  When  my  real  mother  was  drunk  (as  she  was  most  nights),  she'd  call  out  from  her  bedand  beg  me  to  rub  her  back,  then  moan  with  plea-  sure  as  I  kneaded  the  cool,  sweating  dough.  My  sister  was  repulsed  by  our  mother's  body,  but  I  once  walked  in  on  her  and  my  fatherin  his  study  in  Cin-  cinnati.  She  must  have  been  fourteenor  fifteen.  She  was  sitting  in  a  chair  and  he  stood  behind  her,  brushing  her  long  blond  hair  and  quietly  crying.  (It  was  the  only  time  I  ever  saw  him  ery.)  Latershe  claimed  she  and  Daddy  had  made  love.  She  said  she  and  I'd  done  it  in  an  upper  berth  on  the  night  train  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  once,  but  I  can't  quite  be  sure  I  remember  it.  When  I  was  twelve,  Kay  was  out  of  town  once  and  Daddy  took  me  to  din-  ner  at  the  Gourmet  Room,  a  glass-  walled  dome  on  top  of  the  Terrace  about  my  panties,  I  half  hoped  that  a  brown-skinned,  mus-  tachioed  guard  in  a  sweat-soaked  uni-  form  would  look  into  them,  and  at  my  frail,  naked  body:  even  though  I  was  convinced  that  I'd  never  been  uglier.  I  had  a  brush  cut  Kay  had  forced  on  me  (You'll  be  hot  if  you  don't  get  all  that  old  hair  out  of  your  face&quot;),  and  my  white  scalp  showed  through  it.  I  wore  glasses  with  enormous  black  frames  and  looked  like  an  unappealing  quiz  kid,  without  the  budding  intellectual's  redeeming  brashness.  I  was  ashamed  of  my  recently  acquired  height,  cracking  voice,  and  first  pubic  hairs,  and  I  posed  in  front  of  the  foggy  bathroom  mirror  with  a  towel  tur-  ban  around  my  head  and  my  penis  pushed  back  and  concealed  between  my  legs.  In  public,  I'd  foldinto  myself  like  a  Swiss  Army  knife,  hoping  to  occupy  as  little  space  as  possible.  But  at  the  border  the  guards  merely  waved  us  through  after  querying  my  fa-  ther  about  theten  cartons  of  Cuban  ci-  gars  in  the  trunk  (Dad  had  to  grease  a  few  palms  to  convince  them  the  cigars  were  forhis  own  use,  not  for  resale).  We  drove  down  the  two-lane  Pan-556e6974656420537461746573n  Highway  from  the  Rio  Grande  through  an  endless  flat  cactus  desert  into  the  mountains.  Kay  encouraged  me  to  wave  at  the  tiny,  barefoot  Indians  walking  along  the  highway  in  their  bright  cos-  tumes,  their  raven-black  hair  hanging  straight  down  to  their  shoulders.  Some-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  21  &amp;  28,  1995  times  they'd  shake  their  fists  at  our  re-  treating  fins,  but  I  seemed  to  be  the  only  one  who  noticed.  From  the  highway,  we  seldom  saw  villages  or  even  houses,  although  from  time  to  time  we  noticed  a  red  flag  that  had  been  tossed  into  the  top  of  a  mes-  quite  tree.  Daddy  said  the  flag  signified  thata  cow  had  just  been  slaughtered.  &quot;Since  they  don't  have  refrigeration,&quot;  he  informed  us  through  a  cloud  of  cigar  smoke,  his  tiny  yellow  teeth  revealed  in  a  rare  smile,  &quot;they  must  sell  all  the  ed-  ible  parts  of  the  animal  and  cook  them  within  a  few  hours.&quot;  I  don't  know  how  he  knew  that,  although  he  had  grownup  in  [REDACTED],  worked  summers  as  a  cowboy,  and  must  have  known  many  Mexicans.  I  was  struck  by  his  equanimity  in  con-  templating  such  shameful  poverty,  which  would  have  disgusted  him  had  we  still  been  in  the  States;  in  [REDACTED],  he  smiled  benignly  at  it,  as  though  it  were  an  integral  part  of  a  harmonious  whole.  My  father  had  a  passion  for  travelling  long  hours  and  making  record  time.  He  also  had  ironclad  kidneys.  Kay  had  to  stop  to  pee  everyhour.  Perhaps  her  blood-pressure  medicine  was  a  diuretic.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  she  whined,  &quot;I  don't  understand  why  we  have  to  rush  like  this.  What's  the  hurry?  For  Pete's  sake,  E.V.,  we're  in  a  foreign  country  and  we  should  take  a  gander  at  it.  No  es  roblema?&quot;  Before  her  marriage,  when  she  was  still  just  my  father's  secretary  and  &quot;mis-  tress&quot;  (my  mother's  lurid,  old-fashioned  word),  Kay  would  have  said,  &quot;For  Christ's  sake.&quot;  If  she  now  replaced  &quot;Christ&quot;  with  &quot;Pete,&quot;  shedid  so  as  part  of  her  social  beatification.  She  might  actually  have  said  &quot;take  a  gander&quot;  when  she  was  a  farm  girl  in  northern  [REDACTED],  but  now  it  was  placed  between  gently  inverted  commas  to  suggest  that  she  was  citing,  withmild  merriment  but  without  con-  tempt,  an  endearingly  rural  but  outdated  556e6974656420537461746573nism.  Like  many  English-  speaking  [REDACTED]  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  she  thought  foreign  languages  were  funny,  as  though  no  one  would  ordinarily  speak  one  ex-  cept  as  a  joke.  &quot;No  es  problema?&quot;  was  her  comic  contribution  to  the  mishap  of  be-  ing  in  [REDACTED],  the  verbal  equivalent  of  a  jumping  bean.  ALFWAY  to  [REDACTED]  City  we  stopped  at  a  beautiful  old  colonial-style  hotel  that  had  what  it  advertised  as  CINNAMON  SKIN  the  world's  largest  porch,  wrapped  around  it  on  all  four  sides.  Meek  Indian  women  were  eternally  on  all  fours  scrub,  bing  tiles  the  garnet  color  of  fresh  scabs  still  seeping  blood.  That  night,  Kay  and  Dad  and  I  walked  past  banana  trees  spotlit  orange  and  yellow  and  a  glowing  swimming  pool  that  smelled  of  sulfur.  &quot;Pee-you,&quot;  Kay  said,  holding  her  little  nose  with  her  swollen,  red-nailed  fingers.  &quot;It's  a  sulfur  spa,  Kay,&quot;  Dad  explained.  &quot;'The  Mexicans  think  it  has  curative  powers.&quot;  We  entered  a  roomy,  high-ceilinged  cave  in  which  a  band  was  playing  so-  phisticated  rumbas.  The  headwaiter,  broad  and  tall  as  a  wardrobe,  wore  a  double-breasted  jacket.  &quot;Uno  whiskey,&quot;  Dad  said  once  we  were  seated,  showing  off  for  our  benefit.  &quot;Y  two  Coca-Cola  por  favorita.&quot;  &quot;S1,  sefior!&quot;  the  headwaiter  shouted  before  he  reclaimed  his  dignity  by  palm-  ing  the  order  off  with  lofty  disdain  on  a  passing  Indian  busboy  in  a  collarless  blue  jacket.  All  the  other  guests  at  the  hotel  ap-  peared  to  be  rich  Mexicans.  No  one  around  us  was  speaking  English.  The  most  attractive  couple  I'd  ever  seen  were  dancing  an  intricate  samba,  chatting  and  smiling  to  each  other  casually  while  their  slender  hips  swivelled  into  and  out  of  provocative  postures,  and  their  small,  ex-  pensively  shod  feet  shuffled  back  and  forth  in  a  well-rehearsed,  syncopated  trot.  Daddy  was  decked  out  in  a  pleated  jacket  with  side  tabs  that  opened  up  to  accommo-  date  extra  girth;  I  think  it  was  called  a  43756261  shirt.  Suddenly  both  he  and  Kay  looked  impos-  sibly  sexless  in  their  pale,  per-  spiring  bodies.  In  my  blood  the  marimbas  had  lit  a  crackling  fire,  a  fiery  longing  for  the  Mexi-  can  couple  before  me,  their  bod-  ies  expert  and  sensual,  their  manner  light  and  sophisti-  cated-a  vision  of  a  civilized  sex-  uality  I'd  never  glimpsed  before.  Outside,  however,  the  heavy  sul-  fur  smell  somehow  suggested  an  animal  in  rut,  just  as  the  miles  of  unlit  rural  night  around  the  cave  made  me  jumpy.  There  was  no-  where  to  go,  and  the  air  was  pungent  with  smoke  from  hearths  and  filled  with  the  cry  of  cocks;  in  the  distance  were  only  the  shadowy  forms  of  the  mountains.  IN  [REDACTED]  City,  we  stayed  in  a  nineteen-  thirties  hotel  on  the  Reforma.  There  were  then  only  two  million  people  in  &quot;México,&quot;  as  the  citizens  called  their  beautiful  city,  with  a  proud  use  of  syn-  ecdoche.  People  swarmed  over  our  car  at  each  stoplight,  proffering  lottery  tickets,  but  we  kept  our  windows  closed  and  sailed  down  thespacious  boulevards.  We  saw  the  Ciudad  Universitaria  under  construction  outside  town,  with  its  bold  mural  by  Diego  Rivera-a  lien  on  a  bright  future,  a  harbinger  of  progress.  We  visited  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art  and  ate  in  a  French  restaurant,  Norman-  die,  a  few  blocks  away.  We  ascended  the  hill  to  the  fortress  castle  of  Chapultepec,  where  the  Austrian  rulers,  the  lean  Max-  imilian,  the  paleCarlota,  had  lived.  We  were  poled  in  barques  through  floating  gardens  and  climbed  the  Aztecs'  step  pyramids.  We  were  accompanied  everywhere  by  one  of  Daddy's  business  associates  and  his  wife.  After  I  corrected  this  man  («Not  the  eighteenth  century,&quot;  I  snapped,  &quot;that  was  in  the  sixteenth&quot;),  Daddy  drew  me  aside  and  said,  &quot;Never  contradict  an-  other  person  like  that,  especially  someone  older.  Just  say  'I  may  be  wrong  but  I  thought  I  read  somewhere  .  .  '  or  'What  do  I  know,  but  it  seems  ..  .'  Got  it?  Best  to  let  it  just  go  by,  but  if  you  must  cor-  rect  him  do  it  that  way.  And  by  the  way,  101  don't  say  you  Zove  things.  Women  say  that.  Rather,  say  you  Zike  things.&quot;  I  had  always  been  proud  of  noticing  the  fatuous  remarks  made  by  adults.  Now  I  was  appalled  to  learn  that  my  fa-  ther  had  been  vexed  by  things  I  said.  I  was  half  flattered  by  his  attention  (he  was  looking  at  me,  after  all)  but  also  half  irritated  at  how  he  wanted  me  to  con-  form  to  his  idea  of  a  man.  We  went  to  Cuernavaca  and  saw  the  flower-heavy  walls  of  its  mansions,  then  to  Taxco,  where  Kay  bought  a  very  thin  silver  bracelet  worked  into  interlocking  flowers.  The  heat  made  her  heavy  per-  fume,  Shalimar,  smell  all  the  stronger;  its  muskiness  competed  with  my  father's  cigar  smoke.  Only  I  had  no  smell  at  all.  Daddy  warned  us  to  look  for  tarantulas  in  our  shoes  before  we  put  them  on.  We  arrived  at  [REDACTED],  still  achic  beach  resort,  not  the  paved-over  fast-  food  hellhole  it  would  become,  and  stayed  at  the  Club  de  Pesca.  I  had  a  room  to  myself  on  a  floor  above  my  father  and  Kay's.  The  manager  had  de-  livered  baskets  of  soft  and  slightly  over-  ripe  fruit  to  our  rooms;  after  a  day,  the  pineapple  smelled  pungent.  One  night  we  went  to  a  restaurant  in  a  hotel  on  top  of  a  cliff  and  watched  teen-age  boys  in  swimsuits  shed  their  silk  capes  and  kneel  before  a  spotlit  sta-  tue  of  the  Virgin,  then  plunge  a  hundred  and  fifty  feet  down  into  the  waves  flow-  ing  into  and  out  of  a  chasm.  Their  tim-  ing  had  to  be  exact  or  they'd  be  dashed      on  the  rocks.  They  had  superb,  muscled  bodies,  tan  skin,  glinting  religious  med-  als,  and  long  black  hair  slicked  back  be-  hind  their  ears.  Afterward,  the  divers  walked  among  the  crowd,  passing  ahat  for  coins,  their  feet  huge,  their  faces  pale  behind  their  tans,  their  haughty  smiles  at  odds  with  the  look  of  shock  in  their  eyes.  The  popular  song  that  year  in  Mex-  ico  was  &quot;Piel  Canela&quot;  (&quot;Cinnamon  Skin&quot;),  an  ode  to  a  beautiful  mulatto  girl.  In  the  States,  reference  to  color  was  considered  impolite,  although  everyone  told  racist  jokes  in  private;  here,  appar-  ently,  a  warm  brown  color  was  an  at-  tribute  of  beauty.  In  the  afternoons  on  the  beach,  young  water-ski  instructors  stretched  their  long  brown  arms  and  legs,  adjusting  themselves  inside  their  swimsuits,  offering  to  give  lessons  to  pale  tourists,  both  male  and  female.  We  gringos  had  a  lot  to  learn  from  them.  A  SINGER  and  movie  star  from  Ar-  gentina,  Libertad  Lamarque,  was  staying  in  our  hotel.  When  we  rode  up  in  the  elevator  with  her,  she  was  wear-  ing  a  tailored  white  linen  suit  andhad  a  clipped,  snowy-white  Chihuahua  on  a  leash.  It  turned  out  that  her  room  was  next  to  mine.  I  became  friendly  with  her  daughter-I  don't  remember  how  we  met.  Although  Libertad  was  in  exile  from  Peron's  [REDACTED],  her  daughter  still  lived  most  of  the  time  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  where  she  sang  556e6974656420537461746573n  ballads  ina  night  club.  One  night  she  volun-  teered  to  sing  &quot;You  Go  to  My  Head&quot;  at  the  Club  de  Pesca-yes,  that  must  be  how  I  met  her.  I  went  up  to  congratu-  late  her  and  was  surprised  to  discover  she  scarcely  spoke  English,  though  she  sang  it  without  an  accent.  Libertad's  daughter  must  have  found  me  amusing,  or  perhaps  docile,  or  a  con-  venient  alibi  for  her  midday  mid-ocean  pastimes.  She  invited  me  to  go  out  on  her  speedboat  late  the  next  morning;  af-  ter  dropping  anchor,  she  and  the  hand-  some  Indian  driver  kissed  and  embraced  for  an  hour.  I  didn't  know  what  to  do  with  my  eyes,  so  I  watched.  The  sun  was  hot  but  the  breeze  constant.  That  night  I  was  so  burned  Kay  had  to  wrap  me  in  sheets  drenched  in  cold  water.  I  moaned  and  turned  for  two  days  and  nights  in  wet  sheets.  A  local  doctor  came  and  went.  My  fever  soared.  In  my  confused,  feverish  thoughts  I  imagined  that  I'd  been  burned  by  the  vision  of  that  man  and  woman  clawing  at  each  other  on  the  varnished  doors  that  folded  down  over  the  speedboat's  powerful  motor.  The  man  who  had  accompanied  Lib-  ertad's  daughter  on  the  piano  was  a  jowly  Indian  in  his  late  thirties.  Perhaps  he  smiled  at  me  knowingly  or  held  my  hand  a  second  too  long  when  we  were  introduced,  but  I  honestly  can't  remem-  ber  his  giving  me  the  slightest  sign  of  being  interested  in  me.  And  yet  I  be-  came  determined  to  seduce  him.  My  skin  was  peeling  in  strips,  like  long  white  gauze,  revealing  patches  of  a  cooked-shrimp  pink  underneath.  My  mirror  told  me  the  effect  wasn't  dis-  pleasing;  in  fact  the  burn  brought  out  my  freckles  and  gave  me  a  certain  raf-  fishness.  Perhaps  soon  I,  too,  would  have  cinnamon  skin.  Until  now,  I'd  re-  sembled  a  newly  shorn  sheep.  One  night  at  ten,  my  well-sauced  father,  atypically  genial,  sent  me  off  to  bed  with  a  pat  on  the  shoulder.  But,  instead  of  undressing  and  going  to  sleep,  I  prepared  myself  for  a  midnight  sortie.  I  showered  in  the  tepid  water  that  smelled  of  chlorine  and  pressed  my  wet  brush-cut  hair  flat  against  my  skull.  From  my  chest  I  coaxed  off  an-  other  strip  of  dead  skin;  I  felt  I  was  unwinding  a  mummy.  I  soaked  myself  in  a  cheap  aftershave  made  by  Mennen  and  redolent  of  the  barbershop  (witch  hazel  and  limes).  I  sprinkled  the  toilet  water  onto  the  sheets.  I  put  on  a  fresh  pair  of  white  Jockey  underpants  and  posed  in  front  of  the  mirror.  I  rolled  the  waistband  down  until  it  revealed  just  a  tuft  of  newly  sprouting  pubic  hair.  I  danced  my  version  of  the  samba  toward  the  mirror  and  back  again.  I  wriggled  out  of  my  undershorts,  turned,  and  ex-  amined  my  buttocks.  I  kissed  my  shoul-  der,  then  stood  on  tiptoe  and  looked  at  my  chest,  belly  button,  penis.  At  last,  my  watch  told:  me  it  was  midnight.  I  dressed  in  shorts  and  a  pale-  green  shirt  and  new  sandals  and  headed  down  toward  the  bar.  My  legs  looked  as  long  and  silky  as  those  of  Dad's  pinups.  I  stood  beside  the  piano  and  stared  holes  through  the  musician;  I  hoped  he  could  smell  my  aftershave.  He  didn't  glance  up  at  me  once,  but  I  felt  he  was  aware  of  my  presence.  He  took  his  break  between  sets  and  103  asked  me  if  I  wanted  to  walk  to  the  end  of  the  dock.  When  we  got  there  we  sat  on  a  high-backed  bench,  which  hidus  from  view.  We  looked  out  across  the  harbor  at  the  few  lights  on  the  farther  shore,  one  of  them  moving.  A  one-eyed  car  or  a  motor  scooter  climbed  the  road  and  vanished  over  the  crest  of  a  hill.  A  soft  warm  breeze  blew  in  over  the  [REDACTED].  Some  people  lived  their  whole  lives  beside  the  restless,  changeable  motions  of  the  ocean,  rocked  by  warm  breezes  night  and  day,  their  only  clothing  the  merest  concession  to  decency,  their  bod-  ies  constantly  licked  by  water  and  wind.  I  who  had  known  the  cold  [REDACTED]  winters,  whose  nose  turned  red  and  hands  blue  in  the  arctic  temperatures,  whose  scrotum  shrank  and  feet  went  numb,  who  could  scarcely  guess  the  gender,  much  less  discern  the  degree  of  beauty,  under  those  moving  gray  hay-  stacks  of  bonnets,  mittens,  overcoats,  and  scarves-here,  in  [REDACTED],  I  felt  my  body,  browned  and  peeled  into  purity,  expand  and  relax.  The  pianist  and  I  held  hands.  He  said,  &quot;I  could  come  up  to  your  room  after  I  get  off  at  four  in  the  morning.&quot;  &quot;I'm  in  Room  612,&quot;  I  said.  I  looked  over  my  shoulder  and  saw  my  very  drunk  father  weaving  his  way  toward  me.  When  he  was  halfway  out  the  dock,  I  stood  up  and  hailed  him.  &quot;Hi,  Daddy,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  just  couldn't  sleep.  I  decided  to  come  down  and  re-  lax.  Do  you  know  Pablo,  the  pianist  from  the  bar?&quot;  I  made  up  the  name  out  of  thin  air.  &quot;Hello,Pablo.&quot;  They  shook  hands.  &quot;Now  you  better  get  to  bed,  young  man.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  Good  night,  Daddy.  Good  night,  Pablo.&quot;  Back  in  my  room,  I  looked  at  the  lu-  minescent  dial  on  my  watch  as  it  crept  toward  two,  then  three.  I  had  no  idea  what  sex  would  be  like;  in  truth,  I  had  never  thought  about  it.  I  just  imagined  our  first  embrace  would  be  as  though  we  were  in  a  small  wooden  boat  floating  down  a  river  by  moonlight.  Pablo  and  I  would  live  here  by  the  sea;  I'd  learn  to  make  tortillas.  I  woke  to  the  sound  of  shouts  in  the  hall.  Oh,  no!  I'd  given  Pablo  not  my  room  number,  610,  but  that  of  Libertad  Lamarque,  612.  I  could  hear  her  angry       denunciations  in  Spanish  and  Pablo's  timid  murmurs.  At  last,  she  slammed  her  door  shut  and  I  opened  mine.  I  hissed  for  him  to  come  in.  He  pushed  past  me,  I  shut  the  door,  and  he  whis-  pered  curses  in  Spanish  against  me.  He  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,a  mountain  that  had  become  a  volcano.  I  knelt  on  the  floor  before  him  and  looked  up  with  meek  eyes,  pleading  for  forgiveness.  I  was  appalled  by  the  mistake  in  room  numbers.  In  my  fantasies  love  was  easy,  a  costume  drama,  a  blessed  state  that  required  neither  skill  nor  aptitude  but  was  conferred-well,  on  e,  simply  because  I  wanted  it  so  much  and  because,  even  if  I  wasn't  exactly  worthy  of  it,  I  would  become  so  once  love  elected  me.  Now  my  hideous  error  showed  me  that  I  wasn't  above  mishaps  and  that  a  condi-  tion  of  cinematic  bliss  wasn't  automatic.  Pablo  undressed.  He  didn't  kiss  me.  He  pulled  my  underpants  down,  spit  on  his  wide,  stubby  cock,  and  pushed  it  up  my  ass.  He  didn't  hold  me  in  his  arms.  My  ass  hurt  like  hell.  I  won-  dered  if  I'd  get  blood  or  shit  on  the  sheets.  He  was  lying  on  top  of  me,  pushing  my  face  and  chest  into  the  mat-  tress.  He  plunged  in  and  out.  It  felt  like  I  was  going  to  shit  and  I  hoped  I  would  be  able  to  hold  it  in.  I  was  afraid  I'd  smell  and  repulse  him.  He  smelled  of  old  sweat.  His  fat  belly  felt  cold  as  it  pressed  against  my  back.  He  breathed  a  bit  harder,  then  abruptly  stopped  his  movements.  He  pulled  out  and  stood  up.  He  must  have  ejaculated.  It  was  in  me  now.  He  headed  for  the  bathroom,  switched  on  the  harsh  light,  washed  his  penis  in  the  bowl,  and  dried  it  off  with  one  of  the  two  small  white  towels  that  the  maid  brought  every  day.  He  had  to  stand  on  tiptoe  to  wash  his  cock  prop-  erly  in  the  bowl.  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bedand  put  my  underpants  back  on.  The  Indian  dressed  and  put  one  finger  to  his  lips  as  he  pulled  open  the  door  and  stuck  his  head  out  tosee  if  all  was  clear.  Then  he  was  gone.  .  A  couple  of  years  later,  when  my  dad  found  out  I  was  gay,  he  said,  &quot;It's  all  your  mother's  fault,I  bet.  When  did  it  first  happen?&quot;  He  was  obsessed  with  such  technicalities.  &quot;I  was  with  you,  Daddy,&quot;  I  said,  tri-  umphant.  &quot;It  was  in  [REDACTED]  that  time,  with  the  Indian  who  played  the  piano  in  the  Club  de  Pesca.&quot;  A  year  later,  after  he'd  made  another  trip  with  Kay  to  [REDACTED],  he  told  me  he'd  asked  a  few  questions  and  learned  that  the  pianist  had  been  caught  molest-  ing  two  young  boys  in  the  hotel  and  had  been  shot  dead  by  the  kids'  father,  a  rich  Mexican  from  [REDACTED]  City.  I  never  knew  whether  the  story  was  true  or  just  a  cautionary  tale  dreamed  up  by  Daddy.  Not  that  he  ever  had  much  imagination.  ECENTLY  I  was  in  [REDACTED]  City  to  interview  Maria  Felix,  an  old  Mex-  ican  movie  star.  She  kept  me  waiting  a  full  twenty-four  hourswhile  she  washed  her  hair  (as  she  explained).  I  wandered  around  the  city,  still  in  ruins  from  a  re-  cent  earthquake.  The  beautiful  town  of  two  million  had  grown  into  a  filthy  ur-  ban  sprawl  of  slums  where  twenty-four  million  people  now  lived  and  milled  around  and  starved.  I  returned  to  my  hotel.  My  room  was  on  the  fifteenth  floor  of  a  shoddy  tower.  I  had  an  overwhelming  desire-no,  not  a  desire,  a  compulsion-to  jump  from  the  balcony.  It  was  the  closest  I  ever  came  to  suicide.  I  sealed  the  glass  doors  and  drew  the  curtains,  but  still  I  could  feel  the  pull.  I  left  the  room,  convinced  that  I'd  jump  if  I  stayed  there  another  moment.  I  walked  and  walked,  and  I  cried  as  I  went,  my  body  streaked  by  passing  headlights.  I  felt  that  we'd  been  idiots  back  then,  Dad  and  Kay  and  I,  but  we'd  been  full  of  hope  and  we'd  come  to  a  beautiful  Art  Deco  hotel,  the  Palacio  Nacional,  and  we'd  admired  the  castle  in  Chapultepec  Park  and  the  fashionable  people  strolling  up  and  down  the  Reforma.  We'd  been  driving  in  Daddy's  big  Cadillac,  Kay  was  outfitted  in  her  wonderfully  tailored  Hattie  Carnegie  suit,  with  the  lapel  watch  Daddy  had  given  her  dangling  from  the  braided  white  and  yellow  gold  brooch  studded  with  lapis  lazuli.  Now  they  were  both  dead,  and  the  city  was  dirty  and  crumbling,  and  the  man  I  was  travelling  with  was  sero-  positive,  and  so  was  I.  [REDACTED]'s  hopes  seemed  as  dashed  as  mine,  and  all  the  goofy  innocence  of  that  first  thrilling  trip  abroad  had  died,  my  boyhood  hopes  for  love  and  romance  faded,  just  as  the  blue  in  Kay's  lapis  had  lost  its  inten-  sity  year  after  year,  until  it  ended  up  as  white  and  small  as  a  blind  eye.