 b"T4  FICTION  SOUNDS  This  is  one  of  Nabokow's  earhest  stories  and  is  among  those  he  collected  before  his  death  for  a  final  volume.  Dmitri  Nabokov,  the  author's  son  and  translator,  believes  that  it  is  in  part  autobiographical;  he  recently  visited  its  setting,  the  family  estates  outside  St.  Petersburg,  and  found  much  of  the  landscape  unchanged.  dow:  rain  was  striking  the  sill  and  splashing  the  parquet  and  armchairs.  With  a  fresh,  slippery  sound,  enormous  silver  spectres  sped  through  the  garden,  through  the  foliage,  along  the  orange  sand.  The  drainpipe  rattled  and  choked.  You  were  playing  Bach.  The  piano  had  raised  its  lacquered  wing;  under  the  wing  lay  a  lyre,  and  little  hammers  were  rip-  pling  across  the  strings.  The  brocade  rug,  crumpling  into  coarse  folds,  had  slid  part-  way  off  the  piano's  tail,  dropping  an  opened  opus  onto  the  floor.  Every  now  and  then,  through  the  frenzy  of  the  fugue,  your  ring  would  clink  on  the  keys  as,  incessantly,  magnificently,  the  June  shower  slashed  the  windowpanes.  And  you,  without  interrupting  your  playing,  and  slightly  tilting  your  head,  were  ex-  claiming,  in  time  to  the  beat,  &quot;The  rain,  the  rain  ...I  am  go-ing  to  drown  it  out.  ...&quot;  But  you  could  not.  Abandoning  the  albums  that  lay  on  the  table  like  velvet  coffins,  I  watched  you  and  listened  to  the  fugue,  the  rain.  A  feel-  ing  of  freshness  welled  in  me  like  the  fra-  grance  of  wet  carnations  that  trickled  down  everywhere,  from  the  shelves,  from  the  piano's  wing,  from  the  oblong  dia-  monds  of  the  chandelier.  .  I  had  a  feeling  of  enraptured  equilib-  rium  as  I  sensed  the  musical  relationship  between  the  silvery  spectres  of  rain  and  your  inclined  shoulders,  which  would  give  a  shudder  when  you  pressed  your  fingers  into  the  rippling  lustre.  And  when  I  withdrew  deep  into  myself  the  whole  world  seemed  like  that-homogeneous,  congruent,  bound  by  the  laws  of  har-  mony.  I  myself,  you,  the  carnations-at  that  instant  all  became  vertical  chords  on  musical  staves.  I  realized  that  everything  in  the  world  was  an  interplay  of  identical  particles  comprising  different  kinds  of  IT  was  necessary  to  shut  the  win-     consonance:  the  trees,  the  water,  you.  ...  All  was  unified,  equivalent,  divine.  You  got  up.  Rain  was  still  mowing  down  the  sunlight.  The  puddles  looked  like  holes  in  the  dark  sand,  apertures  onto  some  other  heavens  that  were  gliding  past  under-  ground.  On  a  bench,  glistening  like  Dan-  ish  china,  lay  your  forgotten  racquet;  the  strings  had  turned  brown  from  the  rain,  and  the  frame  had  twisted  into  a  figure  eight.  When  we  entered  the  lane,  I  felt  a  bit  giddy  from  the  motley  of  shadows  and  the  aroma  of  mushroom  rot.  I  recall  you  withina  chance  patch  of  sunlight.  You  had  sharp  elbows  and  pale,  dusty-looking  eyes.  When  you  spoke,  you  would  carve  the  air  with  the  riblike  edge  of  your  little  hand  and  the  glint  of  a  bracelet  on  your  thin  wrist.  Your  hair  would  melt  as  it  merged  with  the  sunlit  air  that  quivered  around  it.  You  smoked  copiously  and  nervously.  You  exhaled  through  both  nostrils,  obliquely  flicking  off  the  ash.  Your  dove-gray  manor  was  five  versts  from  ours.  Its  interior  was  reverberant,  sump-  tuous,  and  cool.  A  photograph  of  it  had  appeared  in  a  glossy  metropolitan  maga-  zine.  Almost  every  morning,  I  would  leap  onto  the  leather  wedge  of  my  bicycle  and  rustle  along  the  path,  through  the  woods,  then  along  the  highway  and  through  the  village,  then  along  another  path  toward  you.  You  counted  on  your  husband's  not  coming  in  September.  And  we  feared  nothing,  you  and  I-not  your  servants'  gossip,  not  my  family's  suspicions.  Each  of  us,  in  a  different  way,  trusted  fate.  YOUR  love  was  a  bit  muted,  as  was  your  voice.  One  might  say  you  loved  askance,  andyou  never  spoke  about  love.  You  were  one  of  those  habitually  untalk-  ative  women,  to  whose  silence  one  imme-  diately  grows  accustomed.  But  now  and  then  something  in  you  burst  forth.  Then  your  giant  Bechstein  would  thunder,  or  else,  gazing  mistily  straight  ahead,  you  would  tell  me  hilarious  anecdotes  you  had  heard  from  your  husband  or  from  his  regimen-  tal  comrades.  I  remember  your  hands-  elongated,  pale  hands  with  bluish  veins.  N  that  happy  day  when  the  rain  was  lashing  andyou  played  so  unexpect-  edly  well  came  the  resolution  of  the  nebu-  lous  something  that  had  imperceptibly  arisen  between  us  after  our  first  weeks  of  love.  I  realized  that  you  had  no  power  over  me,  that  it  was  not  you  alone  who  were  my  lover  but  the  entire  earth.  It  was  as  if  my  soul  had  extended  countless  sensitive  feelers,  and  I  lived  within  everything,  perceiving  simultaneously  Niagara  Falls  thundering  far  beyond  the  ocean  and  the  long  golden  drops  rustling  and  pattering  in  the  lane.  I  glanced  at  a  birch  tree's  shiny  bark  and  suddenly  felt  that,  in  place  of  arms,  I  pos-  sessed  inclined  branches  covered  with  little  wet  leaves  and,  instead  of  legs,  a  thousand  slender  roots,  twining  into  the  earth,  imbibing  it.  I  wanted  to  transfuse  myself  thus  into  all  of  nature,  to  experi-  ence  what  it  was  like  to  be  an  old  boletus  mushroom  with  its  spongy  yellow  under-  side,  or  a  dragonfly,  or  the  solar  sphere.  I  felt  so  happy  that  I  suddenly  burst  out  laughing,  and  kissed  you  on  the  clavicle  and  nape.  I  would  even  have  recited  a  poem  to  you,  but  you  detested  poetry.  You  smiled  a  thinsmile  and  said,  &quot;It's  nice  after  the  rain.&quot;  Then  you  thought  for  a  minute  and  added,  &quot;You  know,  I  just  re-  membered-I've  been  invited  to  tea  today  at  ...  what's  his  name  ...  Pal  Palych's.  He's  a  real  bore.  But,  you  know,  I  must  go.&quot;  Pal  Palych  was  an  old  acquaintance  of  mine.  We  would  be  fishing  together  and,  all  of  a  sudden,  in  a  creaky  little  tenor,  he  would  break  into  &quot;The  Eve-  ning  Bells.&quot;  I  was  very  fond  of  him.  A  fiery  drop  fell  from  a  leaf  right  onto  my  lips.  I  offered  to  accompany  you.  " b" You  gave  a  shivery  shrug.  &quot;We'll  be  bored  to  death  there.  This  is  awful.&quot;  You  glanced  at  your  wrist  and  sighed.  &quot;Time  to  go.  I  must  change  my  shoes.&quot;  In  your  misty  bedroom,  the  sun-  light,  having  penetrated  the  lowered  Ve-  netian  blinds,  formed  two  golden  ladders  on  the  floor.  You  said  something  in  your  muted  voice.  Outside  the  window,  the  trees  breathed  and  dripped  with  a  contented  rustle.  And  I,  smiling  at  that  rustle,  lightly  and  un-  avidly  embraced  you.  T  happened  like  this.  On  one  bank  of  the  river  was  your  park,  your  meadows,  and  on  the  other  stood  the  vil-  lage.  The  highway  was  deeply  rutted  in  places.  The  mud  was  a  lush  violet,  and  the  grooves  contained  bubbly,  caf\xc3\xa9-  au-lait  water.  The  oblique  shadows  of  black  log  izbas  extend-  ed  with  particular  clarity.  We  walked  in  the  shade  along  a  well-  trodden  path,  past  a  grocery,  past  an  inn  with  an  emerald  sign,  past  sun-filled  court-  yards  emanating  the  aromas  of  manure  and  of  fresh  hay.  The  schoolhouse  was  new,  constructed  of  stone,  with  maples  planted  around  it.  On  its  threshold  a  peasant  woman's  white  calves  gleamed  as  she  wrung  out  a  rag  into  a  bucket.  You  inquired,  &quot;Is  Pal  Palych  in?&quot;  The  woman,  with  her  freckles  and  braids,  squinted  against  the  sun.  &quot;He  is,  he  is.&quot;  The  pail  tinkled  as  she  pushed  it  with  her  heel.  &quot;Come  in,  ma'am.  They'll  be  in  the  workshop.&quot;  We  creaked  along  a  dark  hallway,  then  through  a  spacious  classroom.  I  glanced  in  passing  at  an  azure  map,  and  thought,  That's  how  all  of  [REDACTED]  is-sunlight  and  hollows.  ...  In  a  corner  sparkled  a  crushed  piece  of  chalk.  Farther  on,  in  the  small  workshop,  there  was  a  pleasant  smell  of  carpenter's  e  glue  and  pine  sawdust.  Coatless,  puffy,  and  sweaty,  his  left  leg  extended,  Pal  Pa-  lych  was  planing  away  appetizingly  at  a  groaning  white  board.  His  moist,  bald  pate  rocked  to  and  fro  in  a  dusty  ray  of  sun-  light.  On  the  floor  under  the  workbench,  the  shavings  curled  like  flimsy  locks.  I  said  loudly,  &quot;Pal  Palych,  you  have  guests!&quot;  He  gave  a  start,  immediately  got  flus-  tered,  bestowed  a  polite  smackon  the  hand  you  raised  with  such  a  listless,  fa-     miliar  gesture,  and  for  an  instant  poured  his  damp  fingers  into  my  hand  and  gave  it  a  shake.  His  face  looked  as  if  it  had  been  fashioned  of  buttery  modelling  clay,  with  its  limp  mustache  and  unexpected  furrows.  &quot;Sorry-I'm  not  dressed,  you  see,&quot;  he  said  with  a  guilty  smile.  He  grabbed  a  pair  of  shirt  cuffs  that  had  been  standing  like  cylinders  side  by  side  on  the  win-  dowsill,  and  pulled  them  on  hastily.  &quot;What  are  you  working  on?&quot;  you  asked  with  a  glint  of  your  bracelet.  Pal  Palych  was  struggling  into  his  jacket  with  sweeping  motions.  &quot;Nothing,  just  putter-  T5  ing,&quot;  he  sputtered,  stumbling  slightly  on  the  labial  consonants.  &quot;It's  a  kind  of  little  shelf.  Haven't  finished  yet.  I  still  have  to  sand  and  lacquer  it.  But  take  a  look  at  this-I  call  it  the  Fly.  ..  .&quot;  With  a  spin-  ning  rub  of  his  joined  palms,  he  launched  a  miniature  wooden  helicopter,  which  soared  with  a  buzzing  sound,  bumped  on  the  ceiling,  and  dropped.  The  shadow  of  a  polite  smile  fitted  across  your  face.  &quot;Oh,  silly  me,&quot;  Pal  Pa-  lych  started  again.  &quot;You  were  expected  upstairs,  my  friends.  ..  .  This  door  squeaks.  Sorry.  Allow  me  to  go  first.  I'm  afraid  my  place  is  a  mess.  ...&quot;  &quot;I  think  he  forgot  he  in-  vited  me,&quot;  you  said  in  En-  glish  as  we  began  climbing  the  creaky  staircase.  I  was  watching  your  back,  the  silk  checks  of  your  blouse.  From  some-  where  downstairs,  prob-  ably  the  courtyard,  came  a  resonant  peasant-woman  voice:  &quot;Gerosim!  Hey,  Gerosim!&quot;  And  suddenly  it  was  supremely  clear  to  me  that,  for  centuries,  the  world  had  been  bloom-  ing,  withering,  spinning,  changing  solely  in  order  that  now,  at  this  instant,  it  might  combine  and  fuse  intoa  vertical  chord  the  voice  that  had  resounded  downstairs,  the  motion  of  your  silken  shoulder  blades,  and  the  scent  of  pine  boards.  -l  AL  PALYCH'S  room  was  sunny  and  some-  what  cramped.  A  crimson  rug  with  a  yellow  lion  embroidered  in  its  center  was  nailed  to  the  wall  above  the  bed.  On  another  wall  hung  a  framed  chapter  from  &quot;Anna  Karenin,&quot;  set  in  such  a  way  that  the  interplay  of  dark  and  light  type  together  with  the  clever  placement  of  the  lines  formed  Tolstoy's  face.  Rubbing  his  hands  together,  our  host  seated  you.  As  he  did  so,  he  knocked  an  album  off  the  table  with  the  flap  of  his  jacket.  He  retrieved  it.  Tea,  yogurt,  and  some  insipid  biscuits  appeared.  From  a  dresser  drawer,  Pal  Palych  produced  a  flowery  tin  of  Landrin  hard  candy.  When  " b"T6  he  stooped,  a  fold  of  pimply  skin  bulged  behind  his  collar.  The  down  of  a  spider-  web  on  the  windowsill  contained  a  yel-  low,  dead  bumblebee.  &quot;Where  is  Sara-  jevo?&quot;  you  asked  suddenly,  rustling  a  newspaper  page  that  you  had  listlessly  picked  up  from  a  chair.  Pal  Palych,  busy  pouring  tea,  replied,  &quot;In  Serbia.&quot;  And,  with  a  trembling  hand,  he  care-  fully  gave  you  the  steaming  glass  in  its  sil-  ver  stand.  &quot;There  you  are.  May  I  offer  you  some  biscuits?  .  .  .  And  what  are  they  throwing  bombs  for?&quot;  He  addressed  me  with  a  jerk  of  his  shoulders.  I  was  examining,  for  the  hundredth  time,  a  massive  glass  paperweight.  The  glass  contained  pinkish  azure  and  St.  Isaac's  Cathedral  specked  with  golden  sandy  grains.  You  laughed  and  read  aloud,  &quot;Yesterday,  a  merchant  of  the  Second  Guild  named  Yeroshin  was  arrested  at  the  Quisisana  Restaurant.  It  turned  out  that  Yeroshin,  under  the  pretext  of  ..  .&quot;  You  laughed  again.  &quot;No,  the  rest  is  indecent.&quot;  Pal  Palych  grew  flustered,  flushed  a  brownish  shade  of  red,  and  dropped  his  spoon.  Maple  leaves  glistened  immedi-  ately  beneath  the  windows.  A  wagon  rattled  past.  From  somewhere  came  the  plaintive,  tender  cry  &quot;Ice-cream!  ...&quot;  HE  began  talking  about  school,  about  drunkenness,  about  the  trout  that  had  appeared  in  the  river.  I  started  seru-  tinizing  him,  and  had  the  feeling  I  was  really  seeing  him  for  the  first  time,  even  though  we  were  old  acquain-  tances.  An  image  of  him  from  our  first  encounter  must  have  remained  im-  pressed  on  my  brain  and  never  changed,  like  something  accepted  and  grown  ha-  bitual.  When  thinking  in  passing  about  Pal  Palych,  I  had  the  impression  for  some  reason  that  he  had  not  only  a  dark-blond  mustache  but  even  a  matching  little  beard.  An  imaginary  beard  is  a  characteristic  of  many  527573736961n  faces.  Now,  having  given  him  a  special  look,  so  to  speak,  with  an  in-  ternal  eye,  I  saw  that  in  reality  his  chin  was  rounded,  hairless,  and  had  a  slight  cleft.  He  had  a  fleshy  nose,  and  I  noticed,  on  his  left  eyelid,  a  pimplelike  mole  I  would  have  dearly  loved  to  cut  off--but  cutting  would  have  meant  killing.  That  little  grain  contained  him,  totally  and  ex-  clusively.  When  I  realized  all  this,  and  ex-  amined  all  of  him,  I  made  the  slightest  of  de  e  motions,  as  if  nudging  my  soul  to  start  it  sliding  downhill,  and  glided  inside  Pal  Palych,  made  myself  comfortable  inside  him,  and  felt  from  within,  as  it  were,  that  growth  on  his  wrinkly  eyelid,  the  starched  winglets  of  his  collar,  and  the  fly  crawl-  ing  across  his  bald  spot.  I  examined  all  of  him  with  limpid,  mobile  eyes.  The  yel-  low  lion  over  the  bed  now  seemed  an  old  acquaintance,  as  if  it  had  been  on  my  wall  since  childhood.  The  colored  postcard,  en-  closed  in  its  convex  glass,  became  extraor-  dinary,  graceful,  joyous.  It  was  not  you  sitting  in  front  of  me,  in  the  low  wicker  armchair  to  which  my  back  had  grown  accustomed,  but  the  benefactress  of  the  school,  a  taciturn  lady  I  hardly  knew.  And  right  away,  with  the  same  lightness  of  movement,  I  glided  into  you,  too,  perceived  the  ribbon  of  a  garter  above  your  knee,  and,  a  little  higher,  the  tickle  of  batiste,  and  thought,  in  your  stead,  that  it  was  boring,  it  was  hot,  one  wanted  to  smoke.  At  that  instant  you  produced  a  gold  case  from  your  purse  and  inserted  a  cigarette  into  your  holder.  And  I  was  within  ev-  erything-you,  the  cigarette,  the  holder,  Pal  Palych  scrabbling  awkwardly  with  his  match,  the  glass  paperweight,  the  dead  bumblebee  on  the  windowsill.  Many  years  have  sailed  by,  and  I  do  not  know  where  he  is  now,  timid,  puffy  Pal  Palych.  Sometimes,  though,  when  he  is  the  last  thing  I  am  thinking  about,  I  see  him  ina  dream,  transposed  into  the  set-  ting  of  my  current  exist-  ence.  He  enters  a  room  with  his  fussy,  smiling  gait,  faded  panama  in  hand;  he  bows  as  he  walks;  he  mops  his  bald  spot  and  ruddy  neck  with  an  enormous  handkerchief.  And  when  I  dream  of  him  you  invariably  traverse  my  dream,  look-  ing  lazy  and  wearing  a  low-belted  silk  top.  waAS  not  loquacious  on  that  wonder-  fully  happy  day.  I  gulped  the  slippery  flakes  of  curds  and  strained  to  hear  every  sound.  When  Pal  Palych  fell  silent,  I  could  hear  his  stomach  muttering-a  delicate  squeak,  followed  by  a  tiny  gurgle.  Whereupon  he  would  demonstratively  clear  his  throat  and  hurriedly  start  talk-  ing  about  something.  Stumbling,  at  a  loss  for  the  right  word,  he  would  frown  and  drum  his  fingertips  on  the  table.  You  re-  clined  in  the  low  armchair,  impassive  and  silent.  Turning  your  head  sidewise  and  lifting  your  angular  elbow,  you  would  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  14,1995  glance  at  me  from  under  your  lashes  as  you  adjusted  the  hairpins  in  back.  You  thought  I  felt  awkward  in  front  of  Pal  Palych  because  you  and  I  had  arrived  to-  gether,  and  he  might  have  an  inkling  about  our  relationship.  And  I  was  amused  that  you  were  thinking  this,  and  amused  by  the  dim,  melancholy  way  Pal  Palych  blushed  when  you  deliberately  mentioned  your  husband  and  his  work.  IN  front  of  the  school,  the  sun's  hot  ochre  had  splashed  beneath  the  maples.  From  the  threshold,  Pal  Palych  bowed,  thanking  us  for  dropping  by,  then  he  bowed  again  from  the  doorway,  and  a  thermometer  sparkled,  glassy-white,  on  the  outside  wall.  When  we  had  left  the  village,  crossed  the  bridge,  and  were  climbing  the  path  toward  your  house,  I  took  you  under  the  elbow,  and  you  flashed  that  special  side-  long  smile  that  told  me  you  were  happy.  Suddenly  I  had  the  desire  to  tell  you  about  Pal  Palych's  little  wrinkles,  about  the  spangled  St.  Isaac's,  but,  as  soon  as  I  began,  I  had  a  feeling  the  wrong  words  were  coming  out,  bizarre  words,  and  when  you  tenderly  said,  &quot;Decadent,&quot;  I  changed  the  subject.  I  knew  what  you  needed:  simple  feelings,  simple  words.  Your  si-  lence  was  effortless  and  windless,  like  the  silence  of  clouds  or  plants.  All  silence  is  the  recognition  of  a  mystery.  There  was  much  about  you  that  seemed  mysterious.  WORKMAN  in  a  puffed  blouse  was  resonantly  and  firmly  sharpening  his  scythe.  Butterflies  floated  above  the  unmowed  scabious  flowers.  Toward  us  along  the  path  came  a  young  girl  with  a  pale-green  kerchief  on  her  shoulders  and  daisies  in  her  dark  hair.  I  had  already  seen  her  three  times  or  so,  and  her  thin,  tanned  neck  had  stuck  in  my  memory.  As  she  passed,  she  gave  you  an  attentive  touch  of  her  barely  slanted  eyes.  Then,  hopping  carefully  across  the  ditch,  she  disappeared  behind  the  alders.  A  silvery  tremor  traversed  the  matte-textured  bushes.  You  said,  &quot;I  betshe  was  having  herself  a  nice  walk  in  my  park.  How  I  detest  these  vacationers.  ..  .&quot;  A  fox  terrier,  a  plump  old  bitch,  was  trotting  along  the  path  after  her  owner.  You  adored  dogs.  The  little  animal  crawled  up  to  us  on  its  belly,  wrig-  gling,  its  ears  laid  back.  It  rolled  over  un-  der  your  proffered  hand,  showing  its  pink  underbelly,  covered  with  gray  maplike  spots.  &quot;Why,  you  sweetheart,&quot;  you  said  " b"SOUNDS  withyour  special,  petting-ruffling  voice.  The  fox  terrier,  having  rolled  around  for  a  while,  gave  a  dainty  little  squeal  and  trotted  on,  scuttling  across  the  ditch.  When  we  were  already  approaching  the  low  park  gate,  you  decided  you  wanted  to  smoke,  but,  after  rummaging  in  your  handbag,  you  softly  clucked,  &quot;How  silly  of  me.  I  left  the  holder  at  his  place.&quot;  You  touched  my  shoulder.  &quot;Dear-  est,  run  and  fetch  it.  Otherwise  I  cannot  smoke.&quot;  I  laughed  asI  kissed  your  fluttery  eyelashes  and  your  narrow  smile.  You  cried  out  after  me,  &quot;Just  hurry!&quot;  I  set  off  at  a  run,  not  because  there  was  any  great  rush  but  because  everything  around  me  was  running-the  iridescence  of  the  bushes,  the  shadows  of  the  clouds  on  the  damp  grass,  the  purplish  flowers  scurry  ing  for  their  lives  into  a  gully  before  the  mower's  lightning.  SOME  ten  minutes  later,  panting  hotly,  I  was  climbing  the  steps  to  the  schoolhouse.  I  banged  on  the  brown  door  with  my  fist.  A  mattress  spring  squeaked  inside.  I  turned  the  handle,  but  the  door  was  locked.  &quot;Who's  there?&quot;  came  Pal  Palych's  flustered  voice.  I  shouted,  &quot;Come  on,  let  me  in!&quot;  The  mattress  clinked  again,  and  there  was  a  slapping  of  unshod  feet.  &quot;What  do  you  lock  yourself  in  for,  Pal  Palych?&quot;  I  noticed  right  away  that  his  eyes  were  red.  &quot;Come  in,  come  in.  ...  Glad  to  see  you.  You  see,  I  was  asleep.  Come  on  in.&quot;  &quot;We  forgot  a  cigarette  holder  here,&quot;  I  said,  trying  not  to  look  at  him.  We  finally  found  the  green  enamelled  tube  under  the  armchair.  I  stuck  it  in  my  pocket.  Pal  Palych  was  trumpeting  into  his  handkerchief.  &quot;She's  a  wonderful  person,&quot;  he  said  in-  opportunely,  sitting  down  heavily  on  the  bed.  He  sighed  and  looked  askance.  &quot;There's  something  about  a  527573736961n  woman,  a  certain-&quot;  He  got  all  wrinkled  up  and  rubbed  his  brow.  &quot;A  certain&quot;-he  emitted  a  gentle  grunt-&quot;spirit  of  self-  sacrifice.  There  is  nothing  more  sublime  in  the  world.  That  extraordinarily  subtle,  extraordinarily  sublime  spirit  of  self-  sacrifice.&quot;  He  joined  his  hands  behind  his  head  and  broke  into  a  lyrical  smile.  &quot;Ex-  traordinarily  .  ..&quot;  He  fell  silent,  then  asked,  already  with  a  different  tone,  one  that  he  often  used  to  make  me  laugh,  &quot;And  what  else  do  you  have  to  tell  me,  my  friend?&quot;&quot;  I  felt  like  giving  him  a  hug,  saying  omething  full  of  warmth,  something  he  needed.  &quot;You  ought  to  go  for  a  walk,  Pal  Palych.  Why  mope  in  a  stuffy  room?&quot;  He  gave  a  dismissive  wave.  &quot;I've  seen  all  there  is  to  see.  You  do  nothing  b-but  get  all  hot  out  there.  ..  .&quot;  He  wiped  his  puffy  eyes  and  his  mustache  with  a  downward  motion  of  his  hand.  &quot;Maybe  tonight  I'll  go  do  some  fishing.&quot;  The  pimplelike  mole  on  his  wrinkled  eyelid  twitched.  One  ought  to  have  asked  him,  &quot;Dear  Pal  Palych,  why  were  you  lying  down  just  now  with  your  face  buried  in  the  pillow?  Is  it  just  hay  fever,  or  some  major  grief?  Have  you  ever  loved  a  woman?  And  why  cry  on  a  day  like  this,  with  this  nice  sun-  shine  and  the  puddles  outside?  ..  .&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  have  torun,  Pal  Palych,&quot;  I  said,  glancing  at  the  abandoned  glasses,  the  typographically  re-created  Tolstoy,  and  the  boots  with  earlike  loops  under  the  table.  T  wo  flies  settled  on  the  red  floor.  One  climbed  on  top  of  the  other.  They  buzzed  and  flew  apart.  &quot;No  hard  feelings,&quot;  Pal  Palych  said  with  a  slow  exhalation.  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;I'll  grin  and  bear  it-go,  don't  let  me  keep  you.&quot;  WAS  running  again  along  the  path,  next  to  the  alder  bushes.  1  felt  that  I  had  bathed  in  another's  grief,  that  I  was  radiant  with  his  tears.  The  feeling  was  a  happy  one,  which  I  have  since  experi-  enced  only  rarely:  at  the  sight  of  a  bowed  tree,  a  pierced  glove,  a  horse's  eye.  It  was  happy  because  it  had  a  harmonious  flow.  It  was  happy  as  any  movement  or  radi-  ance  is  happy.  I  had  once  been  splintered  into  a  million  beings  and  objects.  Today  I  am  one;  tomorrow  I  shall  splinter  again.  And  thus  everything  in  the  world  decants  and  modulates.  That  day  I  was  on  the  crest  of  a  wave.  I  knew  that  all  my  sur-  roundings  were  notes  of  one  and  the  same  harmony,  knew-secretly-the  source  and  the  inevitable  resolution  of  the  sounds  assembled  for  an  instant,  and  the  new  chord  that  would  be  engendered  by  each  of  the  dispersing  notes.  My  soul's  musical  ear  knew  and  comprehended  everything.  OU  met  me  on  the  paved  section  of  the  garden,  by  the  veranda  steps,  and  your  first  words  were  &quot;My  husband  called  from  town  while  I  was  gone.  He's  coming  on  the  ten  o'clock.  Something  must  have  happened.  Maybe  he's  being  transferred.&quot;  A  wagtail,  like  a  blue-gray  wind,  quickstepped  across  the  sand.  A  pause,  two  or  three  steps,  another  pause,  more  steps.  The  wagtail,  the  cigarette  holder  in  my  hand,  your  words,  the  spots  of  sun-  light  on  your  dress.  ...  It  could  not  have  been  otherwise.  &quot;I  know  what  you're  thinking,&quot;  you  said,  knitting  your  eyebrows.  &quot;You're  thinking  someone  will  tell  him  and  so  forth.  But  it  makes  no  difference.  .  .  .  You  know  what  I've  ..  .&quot;  I  looked  you  straight  in  the  face.  I  looked  with  all  my  soul,  directly.  I  collided  with  you.  Your  eyes  were  limpid,  as  if  a  " b"T8  pellicle  of  silken  paper  had  fluttered  off  them-the  kind  that  sheathes  illustra-  tions  in  precious  books.  And,  for  the  first  time,  your  voice  was  limpid,  too.  &quot;You  know  what  I've  decided?  Listen.  I  can-  not  live  without  you.  That's  exactly  what  I'll  tell  him.  He'll  give  me  adivorce  right  away.  And  then,  say  in  the  fall,  we  could  .  ..&quot;  I  interrupted  you  with  my  silence.  A  spot  of  sunlight  slid  from  your  skirt  onto  the  sand  as  you  moved  slightly  away.  What  could  I  say  to  you?  Could  I  in-  voke  freedom,  captivity,  say  I  did  not  love  you  enough?  No,  that  was  all  wrong.  An  instant  passed.  During  that  in-  stant,  much  happened  in  the  world:  somewhere  a  giant  steamship  went  to  the  bottom,  a  warwas  declared,  a  genius  was  born.  The  instant  was  gone.  &quot;Here's  your  cigarette  holder,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  was  under  the  armchair.  And  you  know,  when  I  went  in,  Pal  Palych  must  have  been  ..  .&quot;  You  said,  &quot;Good.  Now  you  may  leave.&quot;  You  turned  and  ran  quickly  up  the  steps.  You  took  hold  of  the  glass  door's  handle,  and  could  not  open  it  right  away.  It  must  have  been  torture  for  you.  I  STOOD  in  the  garden  for  a  while  amid  the  sweetish  damp.  Then,  hands  thrust  deep  into  my  pockets,  I  walked  along  the  dappled  sand  around  the  house.  At  the  front  porch,  I  found  my  bicycle.  Leaning  on  the  low  horns  of  the  handlebar,  I  rolled  off  along  the  park  lane.  Toads  lay  here  and  there.  I  inad-  vertently  ran  over  one.  Pop  under  the  tire.  At  the  end  of  the  lane  there  was  a  bench.  I  leanedthe  bicycle  against  a  tree  trunk  and  sat  down  on  the  invitingly  white  plank.  I  thought  about  how,  in  the  next  couple  of  days,  I  would  get  a  letter  from  you,  how  you  would  beckon  and  I  would  not  return.  Your  house  glided  into  a  mar-  vellous,  melancholy  distance  with  its  winged  piano,  the  dusty  volumes  of  The  Art  Review,  the  silhouettes  in  their  cir-  cular  frames.  It  was  delicious  losing  you.  You  went  off,  jerking  angularly  at  the  glass  door.  But  a  different  you  departed  otherwise,  opening  your  paleeyes  under  my  joyous  kisses.  SAT  thus  until  evening.  Midges,  as  if  jerked  by  invisible  threads,  darted  up  and  down.  Suddenly,  somewhere  nearby,  I  became  aware  of  a  bright  dapple-it  was  your  dress,  andyou  were-  Had  not  the  final  vibrations  died  away?  Therefore,  I  felt  uneasy  that  you  were  here  again,  somewhere  off  to  the  side,  beyond  my  field  of  vision,  that  you  were  walking,  approaching.  With  an  effort,  I  turned  my  face.  It  was  not  you  but  that  girl  with  the  greenish  scarf-  remember,  the  one  we  ran  into?  And  that  fox  terrier  of  hers  with  its  comical  belly?  ...  She  walked  past,  through  gaps  in  the  foliage,  and  crossed  the  little  bridge  leading  to  a  small  kiosk  with  stained-  glass  windows.  The  girl  is  bored,  she  is  strolling  through  your  park;  I  shall  probably  make  her  acquaintance  by  and  by.  I  rose  slowly,  slowly  rodeout  of  the  motionless  parkonto  the  main  road,  straight  into  an  enormous  sunset,  and,  on  the  far  side  of  a  curve,  overtook  a  carriage.  It  was  your  coachman,  Semyon,  driving  at  a  walk  toward  the  station.  When  he  saw  me,  he  slowly  removed  his  cap,  smoothed  the  glossy  strands  on  the  back  of  his  head,  then  replaced  it.  A  checkered  lap  rug  lay  folded  on  the  seat.  An  intrigu-  ing  reflection  flashed  in  the  eye  of  the  black  gelding.  And  when,  with  motion-  less  pedals,  I  flew  downhill  toward  the  river,  I  saw  from  the  bridgethe  panama  and  rounded  shoulders  of  Pal  Palych,  who  was  sitting  below  on  a  projection  of  the  bathing  booth,  with  a  fishing  rod  in  his  fist.  I  braked,  and  stopped  with  my  hand  on  the  railing.  &quot;Hey,  hey,  Pal  Palych!  How're  they  biting?&quot;  He  looked  upward,  and  gave  me  a  nice,  homey  kind  of  wave.  A  bat  darted  above  the  rose-colored  mirror  surface.  The  reflection  of  the  fo-  liage  looked  like  black  lace.  Pal  Palych,  from  afar,  was  shouting  something,beck-  oning  with  his  hand.  A  second  Pal  Palych  quivered  in  the  black  ripples.  Laughing  aloud,  I  pushed  away  from  the  handrail.  I  passed  the  izbas  in  one  sound-  less  sweep  along  the  firmly  packed  path.  Mooing  sounds  floated  past  through  the  lustreless  air;  some  skittles  flew  up  with  a  clatter.  Then,  farther  along,  on  the  highway,  in  the  vastness  of  the  sunset,  amid  the  faintly  vaporous  fields,  there  was  silence.  %  ([REDACTED],  September,  1923.  Translated,  from  the  527573736961n,  by  Dmitri  Nabokov.  "