In  1990,  t  he  f  irst  half  of  th  e  h  andwr  i  tten  manus  cri  pt  of  &quot;Adven  tures  of  Huckleberry  Finn,&quot;  lost  for  more  than  a  century,  was  found  in  an  attic  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  The  six page  document  was  reunited  with  the  second  half  of  the  manuscript  and  is  now  on  display  at  the  Buffalo  &amp;  Erie  County  Public  Library,  in  Buffalo,  New  York.  There  are  startling  differences  between  Twain's  handwritten  text  and  the  original,  1885  edition  of  the  novel,  but  perhaps  the  most  startling  occurs  in  Chapter  9:  the  manuscript  contains  a  previously  unknown  episode,  which  was  removed  from  the  novel  sometime  before  publication,  and  is  published  here  for  the  first  time.  Huck,  who  has  escaped  from  his  drunken  Pap  by  faking  his  own  death,  and  the  runaway  slave  Jim  are  hiding  out  in  a  cave  on  Jackson's  Island,  in  the  Mississippi  River,  \xc2\xabwhen  a  violent  thunderstorm  arises.  The  passage  begins  with  Huck  speaking.     JIM  AND  THE  DEAD  MAN  Ne  BEEN  in  a  storm  here  once  before,  I  with  Tom  Sawyer  and  Jo  Harper,  Jim.  It  was  a  storm  like  this,  too-  last  summer.  We  didn't  know  about  this  place,  and  so  we  got  soaked.  The  light-  ning  tore  a  big  tree  all  to  flinders.  Why  don't  lightning  cast  a  shadow,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  reckon  it  do,  but  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  don't.  Iknow.  The  sun  does,  and  a  candle  does,  but  the  lightning  don't.  Tom  Sawyer  says  it  don't,  and  it's  so.&quot;  &quot;Sho,  child,  I  reckon  you's  mistaken  'bout  dat.  Gimme  de  gun-I's  gwyne  to  see.&quot;  So  he  stood  up  the  gun  in  the  door,  and  held  it,  and  when  it  lightened  the  gun  didn't  cast  any  shadow.  Jim  says:  &quot;Well,  dat's  mighty  cur'us-dat's  oncommon  cur'us.  Now  dey  say  a  ghos'  don't  cas'  no  shadder.  Why  is  dat,  you  reckon?  Of  course  de  reason  is  dat  ghosts  is  made  out'n  lightnin',  or  else  de  lightnin'  is  made  out'n  ghosts-but  I  don't  know  which  it  is.  I  wisht  I  knowed  which  it  is,  Huck.&quot;  &quot;Well  I  do,  too;  but  I  reckon  there  ain't  no  way  to  find  out.  Did  you  ever  see  a  ghost,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;Has  I  ever  seed  a  ghos'?  Well  I  reckon  I  has.&quot;  &quot;O,  tell  me  about  it,  Jim-tell  me  about  it.&quot;  &quot;De  storm's  a  rippin'  en  a  tearin',  en  a  2  carryin'  on  so,  a  body  can't  hardly  talk,  2  but  I  reckon  I'll  try.  Long  time  ago,  when  E  I  was  'bout  sixteen  year  old,  my  young  3  [REDACTED].  William,  dat's  dead,  now,  was  a  BY  MARK  TWAIN  stugent  in  adoctor  college  in  de  village  whah  we  lived  den.  Dat  college  was  a  powerful  big  brick  building,  three  stories  high,  en  stood  all  by  hersef  in  a  big  open  place  out  to  de  edge  er  de  village.  Well,  one  night  in  de  middle  of  winter  young  [REDACTED].  William  he  tole  me  to  go  to  de  col-  lege,  en  go  up  stairs  to  de  dissectin'  room  on  de  second  flo',  en  warm  up  a  dead  man  dat  was  dah  on  de  table,  en  git  him  soft  so  he  can  cut  him  up-&quot;  &quot;What  for,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know-see  if  can  find  sumfin  in  him,  maybe.  Anyways,  dat's  what  he  tole  me.  En  he  tole  me  to  wait  dah  tell  he  come.  So  I  takes  a  lantern  en  starts  out  acrost  de  town.  My,  but  it  was  a-blowin'  en  a-sleetin'  en  cold!  Dey  wan't  nobody  stirrin  in  de  streets  en  I  could  scasely  shove  along  agin  de  wind.  It  was  mos'  midnight,  en  dreadful  dark.  &quot;I  was  mighty  glad  to  git  to  de  place,  child.  I  onlocked  de  do'  en  went  up  stairs  to  de  dissectin'  room.  Dat  room  was  sixty  foot  long  en  twenty-five  foot  wide;  en  all  along  de  wall,  on  bofe  sides,  was  de  long  black  gowns  a-hangin',  dat  de  stugents  wears  when  dey's  a-choppin'  up  de  dead  people.  Well,  I  goes  a  swingin'  de  lantern  along,  ende  shadders  er  dem  gowns  went  to  spreadin'  out  en  drawin'  in,  along  de  wall,  en  it  scairt  me.  It  looked  like  dey  was  swingin'  dey  han's  to  git  'em  warm.  Well,  I  never  looked  at  'em  no  mo';  but  it  seemed  like  dey  was  a-doin'  it  behind  my  back  jis'  de  same.  &quot;Dey  was  a  table  'bout  forty  foot  long,  down  de  middle  er  de  room,  wid  fo'  dead  people  on  it,  layin'  on  dey  backs  wid  dey  knees  up  en  sheets  over  'em.  You  could  see  de  shapes  under  de  sheets.  Well,  [REDACTED].  William  he  tole  me  to  warm  up  de  big  man  wid  de  black  whiskers.  So  I  unkivered  one,  en  he  didn't  have  no  whiskers.  But  he  had  his  eyes  wide  open,  en  I  kivered  him  up  quick,  I  bet  you.  De  next  one  was  sich  a  gashly  sight  dat  I  mos  let  de  lantern  drap.  Well,  I  skipped  one  carcass,  en  went  for  de  las'  one.  I  raise'  up  de  sheet  en  I  says,  all  right,  boss,  you's  de  chap  I's  arter.  He  had  de  black  whiskers  en  was  a  rattlin'  big  man,  en  looked  wicked  like  a  pirate.  He  was  naked-dey  all  was.  He  was  a  layin'  on  round  sticks-  rollers.  I  took  de  sheet  off  'n  him  en  rolled  him  along  feet  fust,  to  de  en'  er  de  table  befo'  de  fire  place.  His  laigs  was  apart  en  his  knees  was  cocked  up  some;  so  when  I  up-ended  him  on  de  en'  er  de  table,  he  sot  up  dah  lookin  pretty  natural,  wid  his  feet  out  en  his  big  toes  stickin'  up  like  he  was  warmin'  hissef.  I  propped  him  up  wid  de  rollers,  en  den  I  spread  de  sheet  over  his  back  en  over  his  head  to  help  warm  him,  en  den  when  I  was  a  tyin'  de  corners  under  his  chin,  by  jings  he  opened  his  eyes!  I  let  go  en  stood  off  en  looked  at  him,  feelin'  mighty  shaky.  Well,  he  didn't  look  at  nuthin  particular,  en  didn't  do  nuffin',  so  I  knowed  he  was  good  en  dead,  yit.  &quot;But  I  couldn't  stan'  dem  eyes,  you  know.  It  made  me  feel  all-overish,  jis'  to  look  at  'em.  So  I  pulled  de  sheet  cler  down  over  his  face  enunder  his  chin,  en  tied  it  hard-en  dendah  he  sot,  all  naked  " b"130  in  front,  wid  his  head  like  a  big  snow-  ball,  en  de  sheet  a-kiverin'  his  back  en  fallin  down  on  de  table  behind.  So  dah  he  sot,  wid  his  laigs  spread  out,  but  blame  it  he  didn't  look  no  better'n  what  he  did  befo',  his  head  was  so  awful,  somehow.  &quot;But  dem  eyes  was  kivered  up,  so  I  reckoned  I'd  let  him  stan'  at  dat,  en  not  try  to  improve  him  up  no  mo'.  Well,  I  stoop'  down  between  his  laigs  on  de  hath-  stone,  en  took  de  candle  out'n  de  lantern  en  hilt  it  in  my  han'  so  as  to  make  mo'  light.  Dey  was  some  embers  in  de  fire  place,  but  de  wood  was  all  to  de  yuther  en'  er  de  room.  Whils'  I  was  a  stoopin'  dah,  gittin'  ready  to  go  arter  de  wood,  de  candle  flickered,  en  I  thought  de  ole  man  moved  his  laigs.  It  kinder  made  me  shiver.  I  put  out  my  han'  en  felt  o'  his  laig  dat  was  poked  along  pas'  my  lef&quot;  jaw,  en  it  was  cold  as  ice.  So  I  reckoned  he  didn't  move.  Den  I  felto'  de  laig  dat  was  poked  pas'  my  right  jaw,  en  it  was  powerful  cold,  too.  You  see  I  was  a  stoopin'  down  right  betwix'  'em.  &quot;Well,  pretty  soon  I  thought  I  seehis  toes  move;  dey  was  jis'  in  front  er  me,  on  bofe  sides.  I  tell  you,  honey,  I  was  gittin'  oneasy.  You  see  dat  was  a  great  bigold  ramblin'  bildin',  en  nobody  but  me  in  it,  en  dat  man  over  me  wid  dat  sheet  roun'  his  head,  en  de  wind  a  wailin'  roun'  de  place  like  sperits  dat  was  in  trouble,  en  de  sleet  a-drivin'  agin'  de  glass;  en  den  de  clock  struck  twelve  in  de  village,  en  it  was  so  fur  away,  en  de  wind  choke  up  de  soun'so  dat  it  only  soun'  like  a  moan-  dat's  all.  Well,  thinks  I,  I  wisht  I  was  out'n  dis;  what  is  gwyne  to  become  er  me?-en  dis  feller's  a-movin'  his  toes,  I  knows  it-I  kin  see  'em  move-en  I  kin  jis'  feel  dem  eyes  er  his'n  en  see  dat  ole  dumplin'  head  done  up  in  de  sheet,  en-  &quot;Well,  sir,  jis'  at  dat  minute,  down  /e  comes,  right  a-straddle  er  my  neck  wid  his  cold  laigs,  en  kicked  de  candle  out!&quot;  &quot;My!  What  did  you  do,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;Do?  Well  I  never  done  nuffin';  only  I  jis'  got  up  en  heeled  it  in  de  dark.  I     HUCK,  CONTINUED  warn't  gwyne  to  wait  to  fine  out  what  he  wanted.  No  sir;  I  jis'  split  down  stairs  en  linked  it  home  a-yelpin'  every  jump.&quot;  &quot;What  did  your  [REDACTED].  William  say?&quot;  &quot;He  said  I  was  a  fool.  He  went  dah  en  found  de  dead  man  on  de  flo'  all  com-  fortable,  en  took  en  chopped  him  up.  Dod  rot  him,  I  wisht  I'd  a  had  a  hack  at  him.&quot;  &quot;What  made  him  hop  on  to  your  neck,  Jim?&quot;  &quot;Well,  [REDACTED].  William  said  I  didn't  prop  him  good  wid  de  rollers.  But  I  don't  know.  It  warn't  no  way  for  a  dead  man  to  act,  nohow;  it  might  a  scairt  some  people  to  death.&quot;  &quot;But  Jim,  he  warn't  rightly  a  ghost-  he  was  only  a  dead  man.  Didn't  you  ever  see  a  real  ghost?&quot;  &quot;You  bet  I  has-lots  of  'em.&quot;  &quot;Well,  tell  me  about  them,  Jim.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  I  will,  some  time;  butde  storm's  a-slackin'  up,  now,  so  we  better  go  en  tend  to  de  lines  en  bait  'em  agin.&quot; "