 ACHATES  McNEIL  Y  father  is  a  writer.  A  pretty  well-known  one,  too.  You'd  recognize  the  name  if  I  mentioned  it,  but  I  won't  mention  it,  I'm  tired  of  mentioning  it-every  time  I  mention  it  I  feel  as  if  I'm  suffocating,  as  if  I'm  in  a  burrow  deep  in  the  ground  and  all  these  fine  grains  of  dirt  are  rain-  ing  down  on  me.  We  studied  him  in  school,  in  the  tenth  grade,  a  story  of  his  in  one  of  those  all-purpose  anthologies  that  dislocate  your  wrists  and  throw  out  your  back  just  to  lift  it  from  the  table,  and  then  again  this  year,  my  freshman  year,  in  college.  I  had  to  take  an  Ameri-  can  Lit  class  second  semester,  and  they  were  doing  two  of  his  novels,  along  with  a  three-page  list  of  novels  and  collec-  tions  by  his  contemporaries,  and  I  knew  some  of  them,  too-or  at  leastI'd  seen  them  at  the  house.  I  kept  my  mouth  shut,  though,  especially  after  the  profes-  sor,  this  blond  poet  in  her  thirties  who  once  wrote  a  novel  about  a  nymphoma-  niac  pastry-maker,  made  a  joke  the  first  day  when  she  came  to  my  name  in  the  register.  &quot;Achates  McNeil,&quot;  she  called  out.  &quot;Here,&quot;  I  said,  feeling  hot  and  cold  all  over,  as  if  I'd  gone  from  a  sauna  into  a  snowbank  and  back  again.  I  knew  what  was  coming;  I'd  been  through  it  before.  She  paused,  looking  up  from  her  list  to  gaze  out  the  window  on  the  frozen  wastes  of  the  campus  in  the  frozen  skull-  cap  of  New  York  state,  and  then  came  back  to  me  and  held  my  eyes  a  minute.  &quot;You  wouldn't  happen  by  any  chance  to  be  a  relation  of  anybody  on  our  reading  list,  would  you?&quot;  I  sat  cramped  in  the  hard  wooden  seat,  thinking  about  the  faceless  legions  who'd  sat  there  before  me,  people  who'd  squirmed  over  exams  and  unfeeling  professorial  remarks  and  then  gone  on  to  become  plastic  surgeons,  gas-station  attendants,  insurance  salesmen,  bums,  and  corpses.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  so.&quot;  She  gave  me  a  mysterious  little  smile.  &quot;I  was  thinking  of  Theresa  Golub  or  BY  T.  CORAGHESSAN  BOYLE  maybe  Irving  Thalamus?&quot;  It  was  a  joke.  One  or  two  of  the  literary  cretins  in  back  gave  it  a  nervous  snort  and  chuckle  and  I  began  to  wonder,  not  for  the  first  time,  if  I  was  really  cut  out  for  academic  life.  This  got  me  thinking  about  the  various  careers  available  to  me  as  a  college  drop-  out-rock-and-roller,  chairman  of  the  board,  center  for  the  New  York  Knicks-  and  I  missed  the  next  couple  of  names,  coming  back  to  the  world  as  the  name  &quot;Victoria  Roethke&quot;  descended  on  the  room  and  hung  in  the  air  like  the  after-  shock  of  a  detonation  in  the  upper  atmosphere.  Shewas  sitting  two  rows  up  from  me,  and  all  I  could  see  was  her  hair,  a  Medusan  snarl  of  wild  demi-dreadlocks  draped  over  everything  within  a  three-  foot  radius.  Her  hair  was  red-red  as  in  pink  rather  than  carrottop-and  it  tended  to  be  darker  on  the  ends  but  ran  to  the  color  of  the  stuff  they  line  Easter  baskets  with  up  close  to  her  scalp.  She  didn't  say  &quot;here&quot;  or  &quot;present&quot;  or  &quot;yes&quot;  or  even  nod  her  amazing  head.  She  just  cleared  her  throat  and  announced,  &quot;He  was  my  grandfather.&quot;  I  stopped  her  in  the  hallway  after  class  and  saw  that  she  had  all  the  usual  equipment  as  well  as  a  nose  ring,  and  two  eyes  the  color  of  the  cardboard  stiff-  eners  you  get  as  a  consolation  prize  when  you  have  to  buy  a  new  shirt.  &quot;Are  you  really-&quot;  I  began,  thinking  we  had  a  lot  in  common,  thinking  we  could  commiserate,  drown  our  sorrows  to-  gether,  have  sex,  whatever,  but  before  I  could  finish  the  question  she  said,  &quot;No,  not  [REDACTED];  &quot;You  mean  you-&quot;  &quot;That's  right.&quot;  I  gave  her  a  look  of  naked  admira-  tion.  And  she  was  looking  at  me,  sly  and  composed,  looking  right  into  my  eyes.  &quot;But  aren't  you  afraid  you're  going  to  be  on  Professor  What's-Her-Face's  shit  list  when  she  finds  out?&quot;  I  said  finally.  Victoria  was  still  looking  right  into  me.  She  fiddled  with  her  hair,  touched  hernose  ring,  and  gave  it  a  quick  squeeze  with  a  nervous  flutter  of  her  fingers.  Her  fingernails,  I  saw,  were  painted  black.  &quot;Who's  going  to  tell  her?&quot;  she  said.  We  were  complicitous.  Instantly.  Half  a  beat  later,  she  asked  me  ifI  wanted  to  buy  her  a  cup  of  ramen  noodles  in  the  Student  Union,  and  I  said  yeah,  I  did,  as  if  it  was  something  I  had  any  choice  about.  We  ran  through  a  crust  of  dead  snow  in  a  stiff  wind  and  temperature  that  hadn't  risen  above  minus  ten  in  the  past  two  weeks,  and  there  were  a  lot  of  people  running  with  us,  a  whole  thundering  herd-up  here  everybody  ran  everywhere;  it  was  a  question  of  survival.  In  the  Union  she  shook  out  her  hair,  and  five  minutes  after  we'd  found  a  table  in  the  corner  and  poured  the  hot  water  into  the  plastic-foam  containers  of  de-  hydrated  mystery  food  I  could  still  smell  the  cold  her  hair  had  trapped.  I  also  smelled  the  multilayered,  festering  odors  of  the  place,  generic  to  college  cafeterias  nationwide:  coffee,  twice-worn  under-  wear,  cream-of-tomato  soup.  If  they  en-  closed  the  place  in  plastic  and  sealed  it  like  a  tomb  it'd  smell  the  same  way  two  thousand  years  from  now.  I'd  never  been  in  the  kitchen,  but  I  remembered  the  kitchen  from  elementary  school,  with  its  big  aluminum  pots  and  microwave  ov-  ens  and  all  the  rest,  and  pictured  the  caf-  eteria  ladies  back  there  now,  with  their  dyed  hair  and  their  miserable  small-  town  loutish-husband  lives,  boiling  up  big  cauldrons  of  cream-of-tomato  soup.  Victoria's  nose  was  white  from  the  cold,  but  right  where  the  nose  ring  plunged  in  over  the  flange  of  her  left  nostril  there  was  aspot  of  flesh  as  pink  as  the  ends  of  her  hair.  &quot;What  happens  when  you  get  a  cold?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  mean  I've  always  wondered.&quot;  She  was  blowing  into  her  noodles  and  she  looked  up  to  shoot  me  a  quick  glance  out  of  her  cardboard  eyes.  Her  mouth  was  small,  her  teeth  the  size  of  individual  kernels  of  niblet  corn.  When  she  smiled,  as  she  did  now,  she  showed  acres  of  gum.  &quot;It's  a  pain  in  the  ass.&quot;  Half  " b"172  a  beat:  that  was  her  method.  &quot;I  suffer  it  all  for  beauty.&quot;  And,  of  course,  this  is  where  I  got  all  gallant  and  silver-tongued  and  told  her  how  striking  it  was,  she  was,  her  hair  and  her  eyes  and-but  she  cut  me  off.  &quot;You  really  are  his  son,  aren't  you?&quot;  she  said.  There  was  a  sudden  eruption  of  jocklike  noises  from  the  far  end  of  the  room-some  athletes  with  shaved  heads  making  sure  everybody  knew  they  were  there-and  it  gave  me  a  minute  to  com-  pose  myself,  aside  from  blowing  into  my  noodles  and  adjusting  my  black  watch  cap  with  the  Yankees  logo  for  the  four-  teenth  time,  that  is.  I  shrugged.  Looked  into  her  eyes  and  away  again.  &quot;I  really  don't  want  to  talk  about  it.&quot;  But  she  was  on  her  feet  suddenly  and  people  were  staring  at  her  and  there  was  a  look  on  her  face  like  she'd  just  won  the  lottery  or  the  trip  for  two  to  the  luxuri-  ous  Spermata  Inn  on  the  beach  at  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  26  &amp;  JULY  3,  1995  Waikiki.  &quot;I  don't  believe  it,&quot;  she  said,  and  her  voice  was  as  deep  as  mine,  strange  really,  but  with  a  just  detectable  breathiness  or  hollowness  to  it  that  made  it  recognizably  feminine.  I  was  holding  onto  my  plastic-foam  container  of  hot  noodles  as  if  somebody  was  tryingto  snatch  it  away  from  me.  A  quick  glance  from  sideto  side  reas-  sured  me  that  the  people  around  us  had  lost  interest,  absorbed  once  again  in  their  newspapers,  cherry  Cokes,  and  plates  of  reheated  stirfry.  I  gave  her  a  weak  smile.  &quot;You  mean  you're  like  really  Tom  McNeil's  son,  no  bullshit?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  and  though  I  liked  the  look  of  her,  of  her  breasts  clamped  in  the  neat  interwoven  grid  of  a  blue  thermal  undershirt  and  her  little  mouth  and  the  menagerie  of  her  hair,  and  I  liked  what  she'd  done  in  class,  too,  my  voice  was  cold.  &quot;And  I  have  a  whole  other  life,  too.&quot;  But  she  wasn't  listening.  &quot;Oh,  my  God!&quot;  she  squealed,  ignoring  the  sar-  casm  and  all  it  was  meant  to  imply.  She  did  something  with  her  hands,  her  face;  her  hair  helicoptered  around  her  head.  &quot;I  can't  believe  it.  He's  my  hero,  he's  my  god.  I  want  to  have  his  baby!&quot;  The  noodles  congealed  in  my  mouth  like  wet  confetti.  I  didn't  have  the  heart  to  point  out  that  I  was  his  baby,  for  bet-  ter  or  worse.  T  wasn't  that  I  hated  him,  exactly-it  was  far  more  complicated  than  that,  and  I  guess  it  got  pretty  Freudian,  too,  considering  the  way  he  treated  my  mother  and  the  fact  that  I  was  thirteen  and  having  problems  of  my  own  when  he  went  out  the  door  like  a  big  clich\xc3\xa9  and  my  mother  collapsed  into  herself  as  if  her  bones  had  suddenly  melted.  I'd  seen  him  maybe  three  or  four  times  since  and  always  with  some  woman  or  other  and  a  fistful  of  money  and  a  face    " b" that  looked  like  he'd  just  got  done  licking  a  pile  of  dogshit  off  the  sidewalk.  What  did  he  want  from  me?  What  did  he  expect?  At  least  he'd  waited  till  my  sister  and  brother  were  in  college,  at  least  they  were  out  of  the  house  when  the  cleaver  fell,  but  what  about  me?  I  was  the  one  who  had  to  go  into  that  classroom  in  the  tenth  grade  and  read  that  shitty  story  and  have  the  teacher  look  at  me  like  I  had  something  to  share,  some  in-  timate  little  anecdote  I  could  relate  about  what  it  was  like  living  with  a  genius-or  hav-  ing  lived  with  a  genius.  And  I  was  the  one  who  had  to  see  his  face  all  over  the  newspa-  pers  and  magazines  when  he  published  &quot;Blood  Ties,&quot;  his  postmodernist  take  on  the  breakdown  of  the  family,  a  comedy  no  less,  and  then  read  in  the  interviews  about  how  his  wife  and  children  had  held  him  back  and  stifled  him-as  if  we  were  his  jailers  or  something.  As  if  I'd  ever  bothered  him  or  dared  to  approach  the  sanctum  of  his  upstairs  office  when  his  genius  was  percolating,  or  asked  him  to  go  to  a  Little  League  game  and  sit  on  the  stands  and  yabber  along  with  the  rest  of  the  parents.  Not  me.  No,  I  was  the  dutiful  son  of  the  big  celebrity,  and  the  funny  thing  was,  I  wouldn't  have  even  known  he  was  a  celebrity  if  he  hadn't  packed  up  and  left.  He  was  my  father.  A  skinny  man  in  his  late  forties  with  kinky  hair  and  a  goatee  who  dressed  like  he  was  twenty-  five  and  had  a  dead-black  morbid  out-  look  on  life  and  twisted  everything  into  the  kind  of  joke  that  made  you  squirm.  I  was  proud  of  him.  I  loved  him.  But  then  I  saw  what  a  monster  of  ego  he  was,  as  if  anybody  could  give  two  shits  for  literature  anymore,  as  if  he  were  the  center  of  the  universe  while  the  real  universe  went  on  in  the  streets,  on  the  Internet,  on  TV,  and  in  the  movie  theatres.  Who  the  hell  was  he  to  re-  ject  me?  So:  Victoria  Roethke.  I  told  her  I'd  never  licked  any-  body's  nose  ring  before,  and  she  asked  me  if  I  wanted  to  go  over  to  her  apart-  ment  and  listen  to  music  and  have  sex,  and  though  I  felt  like  shit,  like  my  father's  son,  like  the  negative  image  of     something  I  didn't  want  to  be,  I  went.  Oh,  yes:  I  went.  \xe2\x80\x98  JiCTORIA  lived  in  a  cramped,  drafty,  ancient  wreck  of  a  nondescript  house  from  the  wood-burning  era,  about  five  blocks  from  campus.  We  ran  all  the  way,  of  course-it  was  either  that  or  freeze  to  the  pavement-and  the  shared  effort,  the  wheezing  lungs  and  burning  nostrils,  got  us  over  any  initial  awkwardness.  We  stood  a  minute  in  the  superheated  entryway  that  featured  a  row  of  tarnished  brass  coat  hooks,  a  dim  hallway  lined  with  doors  coated  in  drab,  shiny  paint,  and  a  smell  of  cat  litter  and  old  clothes.  I  followed  her  hair  up  a  narrow  stairway  and  into  a  one-room  apartment  not  much  bigger  than  a  prison  cell.  It  was  dominated  by  a  queen-size  mattress  laid  out  on  the  floor  and  a  pair  of  speakers  big  enough  to  double  as  end  tables,  which  they  did.  Bricks  and  boards  for  the  bookcases  that  lined  the  walls  and  pinched  them  in  like  one  of  those  shrinking  rooms  in  a  sci-fiflick,  posters  to  cover  up  the  faded  nineteenth-century  wallpaper,  a  greenish-  looking  aquarium  with  one  pale  bloated  fish  suspended  like  a  mobile  in  the  middle  of  it.  The  solitary  window  looked  out  on  everything  that  was  dead  in  the  world.  Bathroom  down  the  hall.  And  what  did  her  room  smell  like?  Like  an  animal's  den,  like  a  burrow  or  a  hive.  And  female.  Intensely  female.  I  glanced  at  the  pile  of  brassieres,  panties,  body  stockings,  and  sweat  socks  in  the  corner,  and  she  lit  a  joss  stick,  pulled  the     curtains,  and  put  on  a  CD  by  a  band  I  don't  want  to  name  here,  but  which  I  Tike-there  was  no  problem  with  her  taste  or  anything  like  that.  Or  so  I  thought.  She  straightened  up  from  bending  over  the  CD  player  and  turned  to  me  in  the  half-light  of  the  curtained  room  and  said,  &quot;You  like  this  band?&quot;  We  were  standing  there  like  strang-  ers  amidst  the  intensely  personal  detri-  tus  of  her  room,  awkward  and  insecure.  I  didn't  know  her.  I'd  never  been  here  before.  And  I  must  have  seemed  like  some  weird  growth  sprung  up  on  the  unsuspecting  flank  of  her  personal  space.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;they're  hot,&quot;  and  I  was  going  to  expand  on  that  with  some  tech-  nical  praise,  just  to  let  her  see  how  hip  and  knowing  I  was,  when  she  threw  out  a  sigh  and  let  her  arms  fall  to  her  sides.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;what  I  really  like  is  soul  and  gospel-especially  gos-  pel.  I  put  this  on  for  you.&quot;  I  felt  deflated  suddenly,  unhip  and  uncool.  There  she  was,  joss  stick  sweet  ening  the  air,  her  hair  a  world  of  its  own,  my  father's  fan-my  absent,  famous,  self-absorbed  son  of  a  bitch  of  a  father  actually  pimping  for  me-and  I  didn't  know  what  to  say.  After  an  awkward  pause,  the  familiar  band  slamming  down  their  chords  and  yowling  out  their  shop-  worn  angst,  I  said,  &quot;Let's  hear  some  of  your  stuff,  then.&quot;  She  looked  pleased,  her  too-small  mouth  pushed  up  into  something  re-  sembling  a  smile,  and  then  she  stepped  forward  and  enveloped  me  in  her  hair.  We  kissed.  She  kissed  me,  actually,  and  " b" I  responded,  and  then  she  bounced  the  two  steps  to  the  CD  player  and  put  on  Berna  Berne  and  the  Angeline  Sisters,  a  slow  thump  of  tinny  drums  and  an  or-  gan  that  sounded  like  something  fresh  out  of  the  muffler  shop,  followed  by  a  high-pitched  blur  of  semi-hysterical  voices.  &quot;Like  it?&quot;  she  said.  What  could  I  say?  &quot;It's  different,&quot;  I  said.  She  assured  me  it  would  grow  on  me,  like  anything  else,  if  I  gave  it  half  a  chance,  ran  down  the  other  band  for  their  pedestrian  posturing,  and  invited  me  to  get  into  her  bed.  &quot;But  don'ttake  off  your  clothes,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;not  yet.&quot;  I  had  a  three-o'clock  class  in  psychol-  ogy,  the  first  meeting  of  the  semester,  and  I  suspected  I  was  going  to  miss  it.  I  was  right.  Victoria  made  a  real  ritual  of  the  whole  thing,clothes  coming  off  with  the  masturbatory  dalliance  of  a  strip  show,  the  covers  rolling  back  periodi-  cally  to  show  this  patch  of  flesh  or  that  strategically  revealed.  I  discovered  her  breasts  one  by  one,  admired  the  tattoo  on  her  ankle  (a  backward  &quot;S&quot;  that  sig-  nified,  according  to  her,  that  she  was  a  reincarnated  Norse  skald),  and  saw  that  she  really  was  a  redhead  in  the  conven-  tional  sense.  Her  lips  were  dry,  her  tongue  unstoppable,  her  hair  a  primal  encounter.  When  we  were  done,  she  sat  up,  and  I  saw  that  her  breasts  pointed  in  two  different  directions,  and  that  was  human  in  a  way  I  can't  really  express,  a  very  personal  thing,  as  if  she  was  letting  me  in  on  a  secret  that  was  more  intimate  than  the  sex  itself.  I  was  touched.  I  ad-  mit  it.  I  looked  at  those  mismatched  breasts,  and  they  meant  more  to  me  than  her  lips  and  her  eyes  and  the  deep  thrumming  instrument  of  her  voice,  if  you  know  what  I  mean.  &quot;So,&quot;  she  said,  sipping  from  a  mug  of  water  she  produced  from  somewhere  among  the  books  and  papers  scattered  beside  the  mattress,  &quot;what  do  I  call  you?  I  mean,  Achates-right?-that's  a  real  mouthful.&quot;  &quot;That's  my  father,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;One  of  his  bullshit  affectations-how  could  the  Great  One  have  a  kid  called  Joe  or  Evan  or  Jim-Bob  or  Dickie?&quot;  My  head  was  on  the  pillow,  my  eyes  on  the  ceil-  ing.  &quot;You  know  what  my  name  means?  It  means  'faithful  companion.&quot;  Can  you  believe  that?&quot;  She  was  silent  a  moment,  her  gray  eyes  locked  on  me  over  the  lip  of  the  cup,  her  breasts  dimplingwith  the  cold.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  can  see  what  you  mean,&quot;  and  she  pulled  the  covers  up  to  her  throat.  &quot;But  what  do  people  call  you?&quot;&quot;  I  stared  bleakly  across  the  room,  fas-  tening  on  nothing,  and  when  I  exhaled  I  could  see  my  breath.  Berna  Berne  and  the  Angeline  Sisters  were  still  at  it,  pun-  ishing  the  rhythm  section  and  charging  after  the  vocals  till  you'd  think  some-  body  had  set  their  dresses  on  fire.  &quot;My  father  calls  me  Ake,&quot;  I  said  finally,  &quot;or  at  least  he  used  to  when  I  used  to  know  him.  And  in  case  you're  wondering  how  you  spell  that,  that's  Ake  with  a  'k.'&quot;  VICTORIA  dropped  out  of  the  blond  poet-novelist's  lit  class,  but  I  knew  where  she  lived,  and  you  couldn't  miss  her  hair  jogging  across  the  tundra.  I  saw  her  maybe  two  or  three  times  a  week,  especially  on  weekends.  When  things  began  to  get  to  me-life,  exams,  too  many  shooters  of  Jack  or  tequila,  my  mother's  zombielike  voice  on  the  tele-  phone-I  would  sink  into  the  den  of  Victoria's  room  with  its  animal  funk  and  shrinking  walls  as  if  I'd  never  climb  back  out,  and  it  was  nothing  like  the  cold,  dry  burrow  I  thought  of  when  I  thought  of  my  father.  Just  the  opposite:  Victoria's  room,  with  Victoria  in  it,  was  positively  tropical,  whether  you  could  see  your  breathor  not.  I  even  began  to  develop  a  tolerance  for  the  Angeline  Sisters.  I  avoided  class  the  day  we  dissected  the  McNeil  canon,  but  I  was  there  for  Delmore  Schwartz  and  his  amazing  re-  creation  of  a  young  man  watching  his  parents'  courtship  unfolding  on  a  movie  screen  in  his  head.  &quot;In  dreams  begin  re-  sponsibilities&quot;-yes,  sure,  but  whose  re-  sponsibility  was  I?  And  how  long  would  I  have  to  wait  before  we  got  to  the  se-  quel  and  \xc2\xbb:y  dreams?  I'd  looked  through  the  photo  albums,  my  mother  an  open-  faced  hippie  in  cutoffs  and  serape  with  her  seamless  blond  hair  and  Slavic  cheekbones  and  my  father  cocky  and  staring  into  the  lens  out  of  the  shining  halo  of  his  hair,  everything  aperfor-  mance,  even  asimple  photograph,  even  then.  The  sperm  and  the  egg,  that  was  a  biological  concept,  that  was  something  I  could  envision  up  there  on  the  big  screen,  the  wriggling  clot  of  life,  the  wet  glowing  ball  of  the  egg;  but  picturing  them  coming  together,  with  his  cold-  ness,  his  arrogance,  his  total  absorption  in  himself-that  was  beyond  me.  Chalk  " b"   it  up  to  reticence.  To  DNA.  To  the  grandiosity  of  the  patriarchal  cock.  But  then,  he  was  me  and  I  was  him,  and  how  else  could  you  account  for  it?  IT  was  Victoria  who  called  my  atten-  tion  to  the  poster.  The  posters,  that  is-about  six  million  of  them,  plastered  all  over  every  stationary  object  within  a  two-mile  orbit  of  the  campus  as  if  he  were  a  rock  star  or  something,  as  if  he  really  counted  for  anything,  as  if  any-  body  could  even  read  anymore,  let  alone  give  half  a  shit  about  a  balding,  leather-  jacketed,  ex-hippie  wordmeister  who  wor-  ried  about  his  image  first,  his  groin  sec-  ond,  and  nothing  else  after  that.  How  did  I  miss  it?  A  nearsighted  dwarf  couldn't  have  missed  it-in  fact,  all  the  near-  sighted  dwarves  on  campus  had  already  seen  it  and  were  lining  up  with  everybody  even  vaguely  ambulatory  for  their  $2.50  Student  Activities  Board-sponsored  tickets:  Tom  McNEmn  READING  FrRoM  ELECTRONIC  ORPHANS  &amp;  BLOOD  TIES  FEB.  28,  8:00  P.M.  Dusorsky  HALL  Victoria  was  right  there  with  me,  in  front  of  the  Student  Union,  the  poster  with  his  mug  shot  of  a  photo  staring  out  at  me  from  behind  the  double-insulated  glass  panel  that  reflected  the  whole  dead  arctic  world  and  me  in  the  middle  of  it,  and  we  had  to  dance  on  our  toes  and  do  aerobics  for  a  full  two  minutes  there  to  stave  off  hypothermia  while  I  let  the  full  meaning  of  it  sink  in.  My  first  response  was  outrage,  and  so  was  my  second.  I  bundled  Victoria  through  the  door  and  out  of  the  blast  of  the  cold,  intimately  involved  in  the  revolution  of  her  hair,  the  smell  of  her  gray,  bristling,  fake-fur  coat  that  looked  like  half  a  dozen  opos-  sums  dropped  on  her  from  on  high,  even  the  feel  of  her  breasts  beneath  all  that  win-  try  armament,  and  I  howled  in  protest.  &quot;How  in  Christ's  name  could  he  do  this  to  me?&quot;  I  shouted  across  the  echo-  ing  entranceway,  pink-nosed  idiots  in  their  hooded  parkas  coming  and  going,  giving  me  their  eat-shit-and-die  looks.  I  was  furious,  out  of  control.  Victoria  snatched  at  my  arm  to  calm  me,  but  I  tore  away  from  her.  &quot;He  planned  this,  you  know.  He  had   " b" to.  He  couldn't  leave  well  enough  alone,  couldn't  let  me  get  away  from  him  and  be  just  plain  nobodyup  here  amongst  the  cow  flops  in  this  podunk  excuse  for  a  university-no,  it's  not  Harvard,  it's  not  Stanford,  but  at  least  I  didn't  take  a  nickel  of  his  money  for  it.  You  think  he'd  ever  even  consider  reading  here  otherwise,  even  if  the  Board  of  Regents  got  down  and  licked  his  armpits  and  bought  him  a  new  Porsche  and  prom-  ised  him  all  the  coeds  in  Burge  to  fuck  one  by  one  till  they  dropped  dead  from  the  sheer  joy  of  it?&quot;  Victoria  just  stood  there  looking  at  me  out  of  her  flat  gray  eyes,  rocking  back  and  forth  on  the  heels  of  her  red  leather  boots  with  the  cowgirl  filigree.  We  were  blocking  the  doors,  and  people  were  tramping  in  and  out,  passing  be-  tween  us,  a  trail  of  yellow  slush  dribbling  behind  them  in  either  direction.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Victoria  said  over  the  heads  of  two  Asian  girls  wrapped  up  like  corpses,  &quot;I  think  it's  kind  of  cool.&quot;  A  day  later,  the  letter  came.  Person-  alized  stationery,  [REDACTED]  address.  I  tore  it  open  in  the  hallway  outside  the  door  of  my  overheated,  overlit,  third-floor  room  in  the  sad-smelling  old  dorm:  QuUERIDO  AKE:  I  know  it's  been  a  while  but  my  crazy  life  just  gets  crazier  what  with  the  European  tour  for  &quot;Orphans&quot;  and  Judy  and  Josh,  but  I  want  to  make  it  up  to  you  however  I  can.  I  asked  Jules  to  get  me  thegig  at  Arcadia  pur-  posely  togive  me  an  excuse  to  see  how  you're  getting  along.  Let's  do  dinner  or  something  afterward-bring  one  ofyour  girlfriends  along.  We'll  do  it  up.  We  will.  Mucho,  DAD  This  hit  me  like  a  body  blow  in  the  late  rounds  of  a  prizefight.  I  was  already  staggering,  bloodied  from  a  hundred  hooks  and  jabs,  ten  to  one  against  mak-  ing  it  to  the  bell,  and  now  this.  Boom.  I  sat  down  on  my  institutional  bed  and  read  the  thing  over  twice.  Judy  was  his  new  wife,  and  Josh,  six  months  old  and  still  shittingin  his  pants,  was  my  new  brother.  Half  brother.  DNA  rules.  Shit,  it  would  have  been  funny  if  hewere  dead  and  I  were  dead  and  the  whole  world  a  burned-out  cinder  floating  in  the  dead-black  hole  of  the  universe.  But  I  wasn't  dead,  and  didn't  want  to  be,  not  yet,  at  least.  The  next  best  thing  was  be-  ing  drunk,  and  that  was  easy  to  accom-  plish.  Three  Happy  Hours  and  a  good  lip-splitting,  sideburn-thumping  alterca-  tion  with  some  mountainous  asshole  in  a  pair  of  Revo  shades  later,  and  I  was  ready  for  him.  YOU  probably  expect  me  to  report  that  my  father,  the  genius,  blew  in  to  town  and  fucked  my  lit  professor,  Victoria,  the  cafeteria  ladies,  and  two  or  three  dogs  he  stumbled  across  on  the  way  to  the  reading,  but  that's  not  the  way  it  fell  out.  Not  at  all.  In  fact,  he  was  kind  of  sorry  and  subdued  and  old-looking.  Real  old-looking,  though  by  my  count  he  must  have  been  fifty-three  or  maybe  fifty-four.  It  was  as  if  his  whole  head  had  collapsed  like  arotten  jack-o'-lantern,  his  eyes  sucking  down  these  volcanoes  of  wrinkles,  his  hair  standing  straight  up  on  his  head  like  a  used  toilet  brush.  But  I'm  getting  ahead  of  myself.  According  to  my  roommate,  he'd  called  about  a  hun-  dred  times  the  day  before  and  finally  left  a  message  saying  he  was  coming  in  early  and  wanted  to  have  lunch,  too,  if  that  was  O.K.  with  me.  It  wasn't  O.K.  I  stayed  away  from  the  telephone  and  I  stayed  away  from  my  room.  In  fact,  I  didn't  even  go  near  the  campus  forfear  of  running  into  him  as  he  long-legged  his  way  across  the  quad,  entourage  in  tow.  I  blew  off  my  classes  and  sank  into  Vic-  toria's  nest  as  if  it  were  an  opium  den,  sleep  and  forgetfulness,  Berna  Berne  and  the  Angeline  Sisters  keeping  me  com-  pany,  along  with  a  bottle  of  Don  Q  that  Victoria's  dad  had  brought  back  from  [REDACTED]  Rico  for  her.  What  was  my  plan?  To  crash  and  burn.  To  get  so  fucked-up  I'd  be  in  a  demi-coma  till  the  lunch  was  eaten,  the  reading  read,  and  dinner  for-  gotten.  I  mean,  fuck  him.  Really.  The  fatal  flaw  in  my  plan  was  Victoria.  She  didn't  stay  there  to  comfort  me  with  her  hair,  her  neat  little  zipper  of  a  mouth,  and  her  mismatched  breasts.  No,  she  went  to  class-very  big  day,  ex-  ams  and  papers  and  quizzes.  So  she  said.  But  do  I  have  to  tell  you  where  she  re-  ally  was?  Can't  you  picture  it?  Somebody  who  supposedly  cared  about  me,  and  there  she  was,  the  fan,  the  diehard,  camped  outside  his  hotel  in  the  arctic  wind  with  the  snot  crusted  around  her  nose  ring.  They  wouldn't  tell  her  what  room  he  was  in,  and  when  she  took  ex-  ception  to  the  attitude  of  the  girl  behind  the  desk  they  told  her  she'd  have  to  wait  outside-on  the  public  sidewalk.  While  she  was  waiting  and  freezing  and  I  was  attempting  to  drink  myself  comatose,  he  " b"T.  CORAGHESSAN  BOYLE  was  making  phone  calls.  Another  hun-  dred  to  my  room,  and  then  to  the  reg-  istrar  and  the  dean  and  anybody  else  who  might  have  a  glimmer  of  my  whereabouts,  and  of  course  they  all  fell  over  dead  and  contacted  my  professors,  the  local  police-Christ,  probably  even  the  F.B.1.,  the  C.I.A.,  and  T.R.W.  And  then  it  was  lunchtime,  and  all  the  honchos  and  cheeses  from  the  En-  glish  Department  wanted  to  break  bread  withhim,  so  out  the  door  he  went,  not  with  Judy  on  his  arm,  or  some  more  ca-  sual  acquaintance  who  might  have  been  last  night's  groin  massager  or  the  flight  attendant  who'd  served  him  his  break-  fast,  but  his  biographer.  His  biographer.  Arm  in  arm  with  this  bald  guy  half  his  height  with  a  face  depleted  by  a  pair  of  glasses  the  size  of  the  ones  Elton  John  used  to  wear  onstage,  trailing  dignitaries  and  toadies,  and  who  does  he  run  into?  Ten  minutes  later  he's  coming  up  the  stairs  at  Victoria's  place,  and  beneath  the  wailing  of  the  Sisters  and  the  thump  of  the  organ  I  can  hear  his  footsteps,  his  and  nobody  else's,  and  I  know  this:  after  all  these  years,  my  father  has  come  for  me.  ENCH  was  at  the  Bistro,  one  of  the  few  places  in  town  that  aspired  to  anything  more  than  pizza,  burgers,  and  burritos.  My  father  sat  at  the  head  of  the  table,  of  course,  and  I,  three-quarters  drunk  on  white  rum,  sat  at  his  right  hand.  Vic-  toria  was  next  to  me,  her  expression  rapt,  her  hair  snaking  out  behind  me  in  the  di-  rection  of  the  great  man  like  the  tendrils  of  some  unkillable  plant,  and  the  biog-  rapher,  sunk  behind  his  glasses,  hunched  beside  her  with  a  little  black  notepad.  The  rest  of  the  table,  from  my  father's  other  side  down,  was  occupied  by  various  members  of  the  English  Department  whom  I  vaguely  recognized  and  older  lawyer  types  who  must  have  been  deans  or  whatever.  There  was  a  tense  moment  when  Dr.  Delson,  my  American  Lit  professor,  came  in,  buther  eyes,  after  registering  initial  surprise  and  recalculat-  ing  our  entire  relationship  from  the  first  day's  roll  call  on,  showed  nothing  but  a  sort  of  fawning,  shimmering  awe.  And  how  did  I  feel  about  that?  Sick.  Just  plain  sick.  I  drank  desperate  cups  of  black  coffee  and  tried  to  detoxify  myself  with  some-  thing  called  coquilles  St.  Jacques,  which  amounted  to  an  indefinable  rubbery  substance  sealed  in  an  impenetrable  layer  of  baked  cheese.  My  father  held  forth,  witty,  charming,  as  pleased  with  himself  as  anybody  alive.  He  said  things  like  &quot;I'mglad  you're  asking  me  to  speak  on  the  only  subject  I'm  an  author-  ity  on-me,&quot;  and  with  every  other  breath  he  dropped  the  names  of  thebig  impressive  actors  who'd  starred  in  the  big  impressive  movie  version  of  his  last  book.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he'd  say,  &quot;as  far  as  that  goes,  Meryl  once  told  me  .  ..&quot;  or  &quot;When  we  were  on  location  in  Barba-  dos,  Brad  and  Geena  and  I  used  to  go  snorkeling  practically  every  afternoon,  and  then  it  was  conch  ceviche  and  this  rum  drink  they  call  Mata-Mata,  after  the  turtle,  and  believe  me,  kill  you  it  does.&quot;  Add  to  this  the  fact  that  he  kept  throwing  his  arm  around  the  back  of  my  chair  (and  so,  my  shoulders)  as  if  I'd  been  there  with  him  through  every  scin-  tillating  t\xc3\xa9te-a-t\xc3\xa9te  and  sexual  and  liter-  ary  score,  and  you  might  begin  to  appre-  ciate  how  I  felt.  But  what  could  I  do?  He  was  playing  a  role  that  would  have  put  to  shame  any  of  the  big-gun  actors  he  named,  and  I  was  playing  my  role,  too,  and  though  I  was  seething  inside,  though  I  felt  betrayed  by  Victoria  and  him  and  all  the  stupid  noshing  doglike  faces  fawning  round  the  table,  I  played  the  dutiful  and  proud  son  to  Academy  Award  proportions.  Or  maybe  I  wasn't  so  great.  At  least  I  didn't  jump  up  and  flip  the  table  over  and  call  him  a  fraud,  a  cheat,  and  a  philanderer  who  had  no  right  to  call  anybody  his  son,  let  alone  me.  But  oh,  how  those  deans  and  pro-  fessors  sidled  up  to  me  afterward  to  thoroughly  kiss  my  ass,  while  Dr.  Delson  glowed  over  our  little  secret  and  tried  to  shoulder  Victoria  out  of  the  way.  And  Victoria.  That  was  another  thing.  Vic-  toria  didn't  seem  to  recall  that  I  was  still  alive,  so  enthralled  was  she  by  the  over-  blown  spectacle  of  my  father  the  genius.  He  took  me  aside  just  before  we  stepped  back  out  into  the  blast  of  the  wind,  confidential  and  fatherly,  the  oth-  ers  peeling  back  momentarily  in  defer-  ence  to  the  ties  of  the  blood,  and  asked  me  if  I  was  all  right.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  he  said.  Everything  was  in  a  stir,  crescendoing  voices,  the  merry  ritual  of  the  zippers,  the  gloves,  the  scarves  and  parkas,  a  string  quartet  keening  through  the  speakers  in  some  weird  key  that  made  the  hair  stand  up  on  the  back  of  my  neck.  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  I  said.  I  looked  into  his  face  then,  and  the " b"    oldness  dropped  away  from  him:  he  was  my  pal,  my  dad,  the  quick-blooded  fig-  ure  I  remembered  from  the  kitchen,  den,  and  bedroom  of  my  childhood.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said,  shrugging.  &quot;Victo-  ria  said-that's  her  name,  right?  Victoria?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;She  said  you  were  feeling  sick,  the  flu  or  something,&quot;  and  he  let  it  trail  off.  Somebody  shouted,  &quot;You  should  have  seen  it  in  December!&quot;  and  the  quartet  choked  off  in  an  insectlike  murmur  of  busy  strings  and  nervous  fingers.  &quot;Cute  kid,  Victoria,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She's  some-  thing.&quot;  And  then  a  stab  at  a  joke:  &quot;Guess  you  inherited  my  taste,  huh?&quot;  But  the  dutiful  son  didn't  smile,  let  alone  laugh.  He  was  feeling  less  like  Achates  than  Oedipus.  &quot;You  need  any  money?&quot;  my  father  said,  and  he  was  reaching  into  the  pocket  of  his  jeans,  an  automatic  gesture,  when  the  rest  of  the  group  converged  on  us  and  the  question  fell  dead.  He  threw  an  arm  around  me  suddenly  and  managed  to  snag  Victoria  and  the  proud  flag  of  her  hair  in  the  other.  He  gave  a  two-way  squeeze  with  his  skinny  arms  and  said,  &quot;See  you  at  the  reading  tonight,  right?&quot;  Everyone  was  watching,  right  on  down  to  the  busboys,  not  to  mention  the  biographer,  Dr.  Delson,  and  all  the  by  now  stunned,  awed,  and  grinning  strang-  ers  squinting  up  from  their  coquilles  and  fritures.  It  was  a  real  biographical  mo-  ment.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  I  said,  and  I  thought  for  a  minute  they  were  going  to  break  into  applause.  &quot;Sure.&quot;  THE  hall  was  packed,  standing  room  only,  hot  and  stifling  with  the  crush  of  bodies  and  the  coats  and  scarves  and  other  paraphernalia  that  were  like  a  second,  shadowy  crowd  gathered  at  the  edges  of  the  living  and  breathing  one-  students,  faculty,  and  townspeople  wedged  into  every  available  space.  Some  of  them  had  come  from  as  far  away  as  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  I  heard,  and  when  we  came  through  the  big  main  double  doors,  scalpers  were  selling  the  $2.50  Student  Activities  Board-sponsored  tickets  for  three  and  four  times  that.  I  sat  in  the  front  row  with  my  father's  va-  cant  seat  between  me  and  the  biogra-  pher  (whose  name  was  Mal,  as  in  Malcolm)  while  my  father  made  the  rounds,  pumping  hands  and  signing  books,  napkins,  sheets  of  notebook  pa-  per,  and  whatever  else  the  adoring  crowd  thrust  at  him.  Victoria,  the  mass  of  her  hair  enlarged  to  even  more  stu-  pendous  proportions  thanks  to  some  mysterious  chemical  treatment  she'd  undergone  in  the  bathroom  down  the  hall  from  her  room,  sat  sprouting  be-  side  me.  I  was  plunging  in  and  out  of  the  jungle  of  Victoria  to  make  small  talk,  trying  not  to  watch  my  father,  uncon-  cerned,  unflappable,  no  problem  at  all,  when  Mal  leaned  across  the  vacant  seat  and  poked  my  arm  with  the  butt  of  his  always  handy  Scripto  pen.  I  turned  to  him,  Victoria's  hand  clutched  tightly  in  mine-she  hadn't  let  go,  not  even  to  un-  wrap  her  scarf,  since  we'd  climbed  out  of  the  car-and  stared  into  the  reflected  blaze  of  his  glasses.  They  were  amazing,  those  glasses,  like  picture  windows,  like  a  scuba  mask  grafted  to  his  hairless  skull.  &quot;Nineteen  eighty-nine,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;when  he  wrecked  the  car?  The  BMW,  I  mean?&quot;  I  sat  there  frozen,  waiting  for  the  rest  of  it,  the  man's  voice  snaking  into  my  consciousness  till  it  felt  like  the  voice  of  my  innermost  self.  &quot;Do  you  re-  member  if  he  was  still  living  at  home  " b"    then?  Or  was  that  after  he  .  .  .  after  he,  uh,  moved  out?&quot;  Moved  out.  Wrecked  the  car.  &quot;Do  you  remember  what  he  was  like  then?  Were  there  any  obvious  changes?  Did  he  seem  depressed?&quot;  He  must  have  seen  from  my  face  how  4974616c79  about  the  situation  because  his  glasses  suddenly  flashed  light,  he  tugged  twice  at  his  lower  lip,  and  mur-  mured,  &quot;I  know  this  isn't  the  time  or  place,  I  was  just  curious,  that's  all.  But  I  wonder,  would  you  mind-maybe  we  could  set  up  a  time  to  talk?&quot;  What  could  I  say?  Victoria  clutched  my  hand  like  a  trophy  hunter,  my  fellow  students  rumbled  and  chattered  and  stretched  in  their  bolted-down  seats,  and  my  father  squatted  here,  sprang  up  there,  lifted  his  eyebrows  and  laid  down  a  layer  of  witty  banter  about  half  a  mile  thick.  I  shrugged.  Looked  away.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  said.  Then  the  lights  dimmed  once,  twice,  and  went  all  the  way  down,  and  the  chairman  of  the  English  Department  took  the  podium  while  my  father  scuttled  into  the  seat  beside  me  and  the  au-  dience  hushed.  I  won't  bother  describ-  ingthe  chairman-he  was  generic,  and  he  talked  for  a  mercifully  short  five  min-  utes  or  so  about  how  my  father  needed  no  introduction  et  cetera,  et  cetera,  be-  fore  giving  the  podium  over  to  Mal-as-  in-Malcolm,  the  official  hagiographer.  Mal  bounced  up  onto  the  stage  like  a  trained  seal,  and  if  the  chairman  was  selfless  and  brief,  Mal  was  windy,  ver-  bose,  a  man  who  really  craved  an  audi-  ence.  He  softened  them  up  with  half  a  dozen  anecdotes  about  the  great  man's  hyperinflated  past,  with  carefully  se-  lected  references  to  drug  abuse,  woman-  izing,  unhinged  driving,  and  of  course  movies  and  movie  stars.  By  the  time  he  was  done,  he'd  made  my  father  sound  like  a  combination  of  James  Dean,  Tolstoy,  and  Enzo  Ferrari.  They  were  thrilled,  every  last  man,  woman,  and  drooling  freshman.  And  me,  the  only  one  in  the  audience  who  really  knew  him?  I  wanted  to  puke,  puke  till  the  au-  ditortum  was  filled  with  it.  But  I  couldn't.  I  was  trapped,  just  like  in  some  night-  mare.  Right  there  in  the  middle  of  the  front  row.  When  Mal  finally  ducked  his  de-  nuded  head  and  announced  my  father,  the  applause  was  seismic,  as  if  the  whole  auditorium  had  been  tipped  on  end,  and  " b"the  great  man,  in  one  of  his  own  tour  T-shirts  and  the  omnipresent  leather  jacket,  took  the  stage  and  engaged  in  a  little  high-fiving  with  the  departing  bi-  ographer  while  the  thunder  gradually  subsided  and  the  faces  around  me  went  slack  with  wonder.  For  the  next  fifteen  minutes,  he  pranced  and  strutted  across  the  stage,  ignoring  the  podium  and  de-  livering  a  pre-programmed  monologue  that  was  the  equal  of  anything  you'd  see  on  late-night  TV.  At  least,  all  the  mo-  rons  around  me  thought  so.  He  charmed  them,  out-hipped  them,  and  they  laughed,  snorted,  sniggered,  and  howled.  Some  of  them,  no  doubt  my  fellow-  freshmen,  even  stamped  their  feet  in  thunderous  unison,  as  if  they  were  at  a  pep  rally  or  something.  And  the  jokes-  the  sort  of  thing  he'd  come  on  with  at  lTunch-were  all  so  self-effacing,  at  least  on  the  surface,  but  deep  down  each  phrase  and  buttressed  pause  was  calcu-  lated  to  remind  us  we  were  in  the  pres-  ence  of  one  of  the  heroes  of  literature.  There  was  the  drinking-with-Bukowski  story,  which  had  been  reproduced  in  ev-  ery  interview  he'd  done  in  the  last  twenty  years,  the  travelling-through-Russia-  with-nothing-but-a-pair-of-jeans-two-  socks-and-a-leather-jacket-after-his-  luggage-was-stolen  story,  the  obligatory  movie-star  story  and  three  or  four  don't-ask-me-now  references  to  his  wild  past.  I  sat  there  like  a  conderaned  man  awaiting  the  lethal  injection,  a  rigid  smile  frozen  to  my  face.  My  scalp  itched,  both  nos-  trils,  even  the  crotch  of  my  underwear.  I  fought  for  control.  And  then  the  final  blow  fell,  as  swift  and  sudden  as  a  meteor  shriek-  ing  down  from  outerspace  and  against  all  odds  blasting  through  the  roof  of  the  auditorium  and  drilling  right  into  the  back  of  my  reeling  head.  My  father  raised  a  hand  to  indicate  that  the  jokes  were  over,  and  the  audience  choked  off  as  if  he'd  tightened  a  noose  around  each  and  every  throat.  Suddenly,  he  was  more  professorial  than  the  professors-there  wasn't  a  murmur  in  the  house,  not  even  a  cough.  He  held  up  a  book,  produced  a  pair  of  wire-rim  glasses-a  prop  if  ever  I  saw  one-and  glanced  down  at  me.  &quot;The  piece  I  want  to  read  tonight,  from  'Blood  Ties,&quot;  is  something  I've  wanted  to  read  in  public  for  a  long  time.  It's  a  deeply  personal  piece,  and  painful,  too,  &amp;     but  I  read  it  tonight  as  an  act  of  contri-  tion.  I  read  it  for  my  son.&quot;  He  spread  open  the  book  with  a  slow,  sad  deliberation  I'm  sure  they  all  found  very  affecting,  but  to  me  he  was  like  a  terrorist  opening  a  suitcase  full  of  explosives,  and  I  shrank  into  my  seat,  as  miserable  as  I've  ever  been  in  my  life.  He  can't  be  doing  this,  I  thought,  he  can't.  But  he  was.  It  was  his  show,  after  all.  And  then  he  began  to  read.  At  first,  I  didn't  hear  the  words,  didn't  want  to-  I  was  in  a  daze,  mesmerized  by  the  in-  tense  weirdness  of  his  voice,  which  had  gone  high-pitched  and  nasal  all  of  a  sud-  den,  with  a  kind  of  fractured  rhythm  that  made  it  seem  as  if  he  were  trans-  lating  from  another  language.  It  took  me  a  moment,  and  then  I  understood:  this  was  his  reading  voice,  another  affecta-  tion.  Once  I  got  past  that,  there  were  the  words  themselves,  each  one  a  little  missile  aimed  at  me,  the  hapless  son,  the  victim  who  only  wanted  to  be  left  lying  in  the  wreckage  where  he'd  fallen.  He  was  reading  a  passage  in  which  the  guilt-wracked  but  lusty  father  takes  the  thirteen-year-old  son  out  to  the  best  res-  taurant  in  town  for  a  heart-to-heart  talk  about  those  lusts,  about  dreams,  respon-  sibilities,  and  the  domestic  life  that  was  dragging  him  down.  I  tried  to  close  myself  off,  but  I  couldn't.  My  eyes  were  burn-  ing.  Nobody  in  the  auditorium  was  watching  him  anymore-  how  could  they  be?  No,  they  were  watching  me.  Watching  the  back  of  my  head.  Watch-  ing  the  fiction  come  to  life.  When  he  got  to  the  part  where  the  son,  tears  streaming  into  his  chocolate  mousse,  asks  him  Why,  why  dad,  why,  I  stood  up,  right  there,  right  in  the  middle  of  the  front  row,  all  those  eyes  drilling  into  me.  I  tore  my  hand  away  from  Victoria's,  stared  down  the  biographer  and  Dr.  Delson  and  all  the  rest  of  them,  and  stalked  straight  out  the  nearest  exit,  even  as  my  father's  amplified  voice  wavered,  faltered,  and  then  came  back  strong  again,  nothing  wrong,  nothing  the  mat-  ter,  nothing  a  little  literature  wouldn't  cure.     DONT  know  what  happened  between  him  and  Victoria  at  the  muted  and  minimally  celebratory  dinner  later  that  night,  but  I  don't  suspect  it  was  much,  if  anything.  That  wasn't  the  problem,  and  " b"    both  of  us-she  and  I,  that  is-knew  it.  I  spent  the  night  hiding  out  in  the  twenty-  four-hour  laundromat  wedged  between  Brewskies  Pub  and  Taco  Bell,  and  in  the  morning  I  ate  breakfast  in  a  greasy  spoon  only  the  townies  frequented,  and  then  I  caught  upon  some  of  [REDACTED]'s  dis-  tinguished  products  at  the  local  cineplex  for  as  long  asI  could  stand  it.  By  then,  I  was  sure  the  great  man  would  have  gone  on  to  his  many  other  great  appointments,  all  his  public  posturing  aside.  And  that  was  just  what  happened-he  cancelled  his  first  flight  and  hung  around  till  he  could  hang  around  no  longer,  flying  out  at  4:15  with  his  biographer  and  all  the  sympathy  of  the  deeply  yearning  and  heartbroken  campus.  And  me?  I  was  no-  body  again.  Or  so  I  thought.  I,  too,  dropped  out  of  Dr.  Delson's  class-I  couldn't  stand  the  thought  of  that  glazed-blue  look  of  accusation  in  her  eyes-and  though  I  occasionally  spotted  Victoria's  hair  riding  the  cur-  rents  around  campus,  I  avoided  her.  She  knew  where  to  find  me  if  she  wanted  me,  but  all  that  was  over,  I  could  see  that;I  wasn't  his  son,  after  all.  A  few  weeks  later  I  noticed  her  in  the  company  of  this  senior  who  played  keyboards  in  one  of  the  local  bands,  and  I  felt  some-  thing-I  don't  know  what  it  was,  but  it  wasn't  jealousy.  And  then,  at  the  end  of  a  lonely  semester  in  a  lonely  town  in  the  lonely  hind  end  of  nowhere,  the  air  be-  gan  to  soften,  and  a  few  blades  of  yel-  low  grass  poked  up  through  the  rotting  snow,  and  my  roommate  took  me  down-  town  to  Brewskies  to  celebrate.  The  girl's  name  was  Marlena,  but  she  didn't  pronounce  it  like  the  old  German  actress  who  was  practically  dead  before  she  was  born,  she  said  Mar-/erna,  the  second  syllable  banged  out  so  it  sounded  as  if  she  were  calling  herself  Lenny.  I  liked  the  way  her  smile  showed  off  the  gold  caps  on  her  molars.  The  band  I  didn't  want  to  mention  earlier  was  playing  through  the  big  speakers  over  the  bar  and  there  was  a  whole  undercurrent  of  noise  and  excitement  mixed  with  the  smells  of  tap  beer,  Polish  sausage,  and  salt-and-  vinegar  chips.  &quot;I  know  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're,  um,  Tom  McNeil's  son,  right?&quot;  I  never  looked  away  from  her,  never  blinked.  All  that  was  old  news  now,  dead  and  buried,  like  some  battle  in  the  Civil  War.  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  did  you  guess?&quot;  "