 LOVEFAR  FROM  HOME  CCASIONALLY  a  train  sets  off  along  the  sea-  front  railway,  and  on  that  train  there's  me,  leav-  ing.  Because  I  don't  want  to  stay  in  my  sleepy,  cabbage-patch  village,  puzzling  out  the  license  plates  of  out-of-town  cars  like  a  kid  down  from  the  mountains  sit-  ting  on  the  wall  of  a  bridge.  I'm  off-  bye,  village.  In  the  world  beyond  my  village  there  are  other  towns:  some  on  the  sea,  oth-  ers  (why  I  don't  know)  lost  in  the  depths  of  the  lowlands  or  alongside  trains  that  arrive  (how  I  don't  know)  after  breath-  less  journeys  across  the  plains.  Every  so  often  I  get  off  in  one  of  these  towns,  and  I  always  have  the  look  of  the  first-time  traveller-pockets  stuffed  with  newspa-  pers,  eyes  smarting  with  dust.  At  night,in  my  new  bed,  I  turn  off  the  light  and  listen  to  the  trams,  and  then  think  of  my  room  in  my  village,  so  distant  it  seems  impossible  that  two  places  so  far  apart  could  existat  the  same  moment.  And  (where  I'm  not  sure)  I  fall  asleep.  In  the  morning,  outside  the  window,  there's  much  to  explore.  If  it's  Genoa,  streets  that  go  up  and  down  and  houses  above  and  below  and  a  rush  of  wind  be-  tween  them;  if  it's  Turin,  straight  streets  that  never  end  when  you  look  out  over  the  railings  of  the  balconies,  and  a  double  row  of  trees  fading  away  beyond  into  white  skies;  if  it's  4974616c79,  houses  that  turn  their  backs  on  you  in  fields  of  fog.  But  it's  always  the  same  room  in  ev-  ery  town.  It  seems  that  the  landladies  send  the  furniture  on  from  town  to  town  as  soon  as  they  know  I'm  coming.  Even  my  shaving  kit  on  the  marble  dresser  top  looks  as  if  I'd  found  it  there  when  I  ar-  rived  rather  than  putting  it  there  myself,  it  has  suchan  air  of  inevitability  it  doesn't  seem  mine  at  all.  I  could  live  years  in  a  room,  after  other  years  in  other  and  absolutely  similar  rooms,  without  ever  managing  to  feel  it  was  mine  or  making  my  mark  on  it,  because  my  suitcase  is  always  ready  for  the  next     BY  ITALO  CALIVINO  journey,  and  notown  in  4974616c79  is  the  right  town:  no  town  has  work  to  offer;  no  town  would  be  good  enough  even  if  you  did  find  work  (there's  always  another  and  better  town  where  you  hope  to  go  and  work  one  day).  So  I  put  my  stuff  in  the  drawers  exactly  as  it  was  in  my  suit-  case,  ready  to  bepacked  again.  DAYS  and  weeks  go  by,  and  a  girl  be-  gins  to  come  to  the  room.  I  could  say  it  was  alwaysthe  same  girl,  because  at  first  there's  no  difference  between  one  girl  and  the  next;  they're  all  strangers,  and  you  communicate  with  them  ac-  cording  to  a  prescribed  ritual.  You  have  to  spend  some  time  and  do  a  lot  of  things  with  this  girl  in  order  to  under-  stand  the  whys  and  wherefores;  and  then  begins  the  enormous-discoveries  phase-the  real  (perhaps  the  only)  ex-  citing  season  of  love.  After  that-spend-  ing  still  more  time  and  doing  still  more  things  with  this  girl-you  realize  that  the  other  girls  were  like  this,  too,  that  you,  too,  are  like  this,  that  we  all  are,  and  that  everything  she  does  is  boring,  as  if  repeated  ina  thousand  mirrors.  Bye,  girlfriend.  The  first  time  a  girl  is  coming  to  see  me-let's  say  it's  Mariamirella-I  hardly  do  anything  all  afternoon:  I  goon  with  a  book  I'm  reading,  then  realize  that  for  the  last  twenty  pages  I've  been  looking  at  the  letters  as  though  they  were  pic-  tures;  I  write,  but  really  I'm  doodling  all  over  the  white  paper,  and  all  the  doodles  together  become  the  sketch  of  an  elephant,  which  I  shade  in  sothat  fi-  nally  it  turns  into  a  mammoth.  Then  I  lose  my  temper  with  the  mammoth  and  tear  it  up:  it's  a  mammoth  every  time,  you  baby!  I  tear  up  the  mammoth,  and  the  bell  rings:  Mariamirella.  I  run  to  open  the  door  before  the  landlady  can  appear  at  the  barred  toilet  window  and  start  shouting;  Mariamirella  would  be  fright  ened  off.  One  day  the  landlady  will  die,  strangled  by  thieves;  it's  written  down,  there's  nothing  anyone  can  do  about  it.  She  thinks  she  can  save  herself  by  not  going  to  open  the  door  when  they  ring,  not  asking  &quot;Whoozzat  callin'?&quot;  from  the  barred  toilet  window,  but  it's  a  pointless  precaution.  The  typesetters  have  already  prepared  the  headline-&quot;LANDLADY  ADELAIDE  BRAGHETTI  STRANGLED,  KILLERS  UNKNOWN&quot;-and  are  only  wait-  ing  for  confirmation  to  lay  out  the  page.  Mariamirella  is  there  in  the  half-  light,  with  her  sailor's  beret  and  its  pom-  pom,  her  heart-shaped  mouth.  I  open  the  door,  and  she's  already  prepared  a  whole  speech  to  make  as  soon  as  she's  inside:  it  doesn't  matter  what  she  actu-  ally  says,  just  that  we  talk  without  a  break  as  I  lead  her  down  the  dark  corri-  dor  to  my  room.  It  ought  to  be  a  long  speech,  so  she  won't  get  stuck  in  the  middleof  my  room  with  nothing  left  to  say.  The  room  offers  no  prompts;  itis  hopeless  in  its  squalor-the  metal  bedstead,  the  titles  of  unknown  books  in  the  small  bookcase.  &quot;Come  and  look  out  the  window,  Mariamirella.&quot;  The  window  is  a  French  window  with  a  waist-high  railing  but  no  balcony;  you  have  to  go  up  two  steps  to  get  to  it.  Outside,  a  reddish  sea  of  tiles.  We  look  at  the  roofs  stretching  off  all  around,  as  faras  theeye  can  see,  the  stumpy  chim-  neys  puffing  rags  ofsmoke,  the  ridicu-  lous  balustrades  on  cornices  where  no  one  can  ever  look  out,  the  low  walls  en-  closing  empty  spaces  on  top  of  tumble-  down  houses.  I  put  a  hand  on  her  shoul-  der,  a  hand  that  hardly  feels  like  mine,  feels  almost  swollen,  as  if  we  were  touch-  ing  each  other  through  a  layer  of  water.  &quot;Seen  enough?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;Down,  then.&quot;  We  close  the  window  and  step  down.  We're  underwater,  we  fumble  with  vague  sensations.  The  mammoth  roams  about  the  room,  ancient  human  fear.  &quot;So?&quot;  've  taken  off  her  sailor's  beret  and  tossed  it  on  the  bed.  &quot;No.  I'm  off  now  anyway.&quot;  She  puts  the  beret  back  on,  I  grab  it  4  DERS  WENNGREN  " b"and  throw  it  up  in  the  air,  and  now  we're  running  after  each  other,  playing,  with  gritted  teeth-love,  this  is  love,  a  scratching,  biting  longing  for  each  other.  There's  punching,  too,  on  the  shoulders,  and  then  aweary,  weary  kiss:  love.  Now  we're  smoking,  sitting  face  to  face,  and  the  cigarettes  are  huge  between  our  fingers,  again  like  things  held  under-  water,  big  sunken  anchors.  Why  aren't  we  happy?  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  asks  Maria-  mirella.  &quot;The  mammoth,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;A  symbol.&quot;  &quot;What  of?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  what  of,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;Just  a  symbol.&quot;  Then:  &quot;Look.  One  evening  I  was  sitting  on  a  riverbank  with  a  girl.&quot;  &quot;Called?&quot;  &quot;The  river  was  called  the  Po,  and  the  girl  Enrica.  Why?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  nothing.  I  like  to  know  who  you've  been  with.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  so  we  were  sitting  on  the  grassy  riverbank.  It  was  autumn,  in  the  evening,  the  banks  were  already  dark,  and  coming  down  the  river  was  the  shadow  of  two  men  rowing  standing  up.  In  town,  the  lights  were  going  on,  and  we  were  sitting  on  the  bank  on  the  other  side  of  the  river,  and  we  were  full  of  what  they  call  love,  that  rough  discov-  ering  and  seeking  of  each  other,  that  sharp  taste  of  one  another-you  know,  love.  And  I  was  full  of  sadness  and  soli-  tude,  that  evening  on  the  banks  of  riv-  ers  and  their  black  shadows-the  sad-  ness  and  solitude  of  new  loves,  the  sadness  and  nostalgia  of  old  loves,  the  sadness  and  desperation  of  future  loves.  Don  Juan,  sad  hero,  ancient  punish-  ment-he  was  full  of  sadness  and  soli-  tude  and  nothing  else.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  the  same  with  me,  too&quot;&quot;  Maria-  mirella  asks.  &quot;What  if  you  spoke  a  bit  now,  if  you  said  what  you  know?&quot;  I've  started  to  shout  with  rage;  sometimes  when  you  speak  you  hear  what  might  be  an  echo,  and  it  drives  you  crazy.  Mariamirella  says,  &quot;What  you  expect  me  to  say  about  these  things,  you  men-  I  don't  understand!&quot;  That's  how  it  is:  everything  women  have  been  told  about  love  is  wrong.  They've  been  told  all  sorts  of  things,  all  of  them  wrong.  And  their  experiences  all  imprecise.  And  yet  they  trust  the  things  they're  told,  not  the  experiences.  That's  why  they're  so  wrongheaded.  &quot;Td  like,  you  see,  among  us  girls  ..  .&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Men:  things  you  read,  things  whispered  in  your  ear  from  when  you're  a  little  girl.  You  learn  that  Hat  is  more  important  than  anything  else,  the  aim  of  everything  else.  Then,  you  see,  I  realized  that  you  never  get  to  hat,  really  to  that.  It's  not  more  important  than  everything  else.  I  wish  it  didn't  exist  at  all,  any  of  it,  that  you  didn't  have  to  think  about  it.  Yet  you're  always  expecting  it.  May-  be  you  have  to  become  a  mother  to  get  to  the  real  sense  of  everything.  Or  a  prostitute.&quot;  There:  it's  great.  We  all  have  our  se-  cret  explanations.  You  have  only  to  re-  veal  her  secret  explanation,  and  she's  not  a  stranger  anymore.  We  lie  cuddled  up  together  like  two  big  dogs,  or  river  gods.  &quot;You  see,&quot;  Mariamirella  says,  &quot;maybe  I'm  afraid  of  you.  But  I  don't  know  where  to  hide.  There's  nothing  on  the  horizon,  only  you.  You're  the  bear  and  the  cave.  That's  why  I'm  cuddled  up  in  your  armsnow,  so  that  you  can  protect  me  from  my  fear  of  you.&quot;  And  yet  it's  easier  for  women.  Life  flows  in  them,  the  perpetuators;  nature  is  sure  and  mysterious  in  them.  Once  there  was  the  Great  Matriarchy,  and  the  history  of  peoples  flowed  as  simply  as  that  of  plants.  Then  the  conceit  of  the  drones:  there  was  a  rebellion,  and  we  got  civilization.  I  think  as  much,  and  don't  believe  it.  &quot;Once  I  found  I  couldn't  make  it  with  a  girl,&quot;  I  tell  her,  &quot;in  a  meadow  on  a  mountain.  The  mountain  was  called  Mt.  Bignone  and  the  girl  Angela  Pia.  A  big  meadow,  among  the  bushes,  I  re-  member,  with  a  cricket  jumping  on  ev-  ery  leaf.  That  trilling  of  crickets-so  high,  no  escape.  She  couldn't  really  un-  derstand  why  I  got  up  then  and  said  that  the  last  cable  car  was  about  to  leave.  Be-  cause  it  was  a  place  you  got  to  by  cable  car,  and  going  over  the  pylons  you  felt  yourself  go  empty  inside,  and  she  said,  It's  like  when  you  kiss  me.'  That  was  quite  a  relief,  I  remember.&quot;  &quot;You  shouldn't  tell  me  this  sort  of  thing,&quot;  Mariamirella  says.  &quot;There'd  be  no  more  bear  and  no  more  cave,  either.  All  I'd  be  left  with  was  fear,  all  around.&quot;  &quot;You  see,  Mariamirella,&quot;  I  tell  her,  &quot;we  mustn't  separate  things  from  thoughts.  95  The  curse  of  our  generation  has  been  just  that-not  being  able  to  do  what  we  thought,  or  not  being  able  to  think  what  we  did.  I'll  give  you  an  example.  Years  ago-I  changed  my  age  on  my  identity  card,  because  I  wasn't  old  enough-I  went  to  a  woman  in  a  brothel.  The  brothel  was  at  Via  Calandra  15  and  the  woman  was  called  Derna.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Derna.  We  had  the  empire  then,  and  the  only  novelty  was  that  the  women  in  the  brothels  were  called  Derna,  Adua,  Harrar,  Dessi\xc2\xa2.&quot;  &quot;Dessi\xc2\xa2?&quot;  &quot;Even  Dessi\xc2\xa2,  as  I  recall.  You  want  me  to  call  you  Dessi\xc2\xa2  from  now  on?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;Well,  to  go  back  to  that  time,  with  this  Derna.  I  was  young,  and  she  was  big  and  hairy.  I  ran  away.  I  paid  what  I  had  to  pay  and  ran  away.  Going  down  the  stairwell,  I  had  the  impression  that  ev-  erybody  had  come  out  to  look  and  laugh  at  me.  But  that's  not  important:  the  thing  is  that  as  soon  as  I  was  home,  that  woman  became  something  &amp;ought,  and  I  wasn't  afraid  of  her  anymore.  I  began  to  want  her,  want  her  terribly  ...  That's  the  point.  For  us,  things  thought  are  different  from  the  things  themselves.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  says  Mariamirella.  &quot;I've  al-  ready  thought  of  everything  possible;  I've  lived  hundreds  of  lives  with  my  thoughts.  Of  marrying,  of  having  lots  of  children,  of  having  abortions,  of  marry-  ing  someone  rich,  of  marrying  someone  poor,  of  becoming  a  high-society  lady,  of  becoming  a  prostitute,  a  dancer,  a  nun,  a  roast-chestnut  seller,  a  star,  an  M.P.,  an  ambulance  woman,  a  sports,  woman.  Hundreds  of  lives,  with  all  their  details.  And  they  all  ended  happily.  But  in  real  life  none  of  those  things  I  think  of  ever  happen.  So  every  time  I  find  my-  self  imagining  things  I  get  scared  and  try  to  stop  the  thoughts,  because  if  I  dream  something  it  will  never  come  true.&quot;  She's  a  nice  girl,  Mariamirella;  and  by  nice  girl  I  mean  that  she  understands  the  difficult  things  I  say  and  immediately  makes  them  easy.  I'd  like  to  give  her  a  kiss,  but  I  realize  that  ifI  kissed  her  I'd  think  of  kissing  the  thought  of  her,  and  she'd  think  of  being  kissed  by  the  thought  of  me,  so  I  do  nothing  about  it.  &quot;Our  generation  must  reconquer  the  things  themselves,  Mariamirella,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Think  and  do  things  at  the  same  time.  Not  do  things  without  thinking  " b"96  them  through.  We  have  to  put  an  end  to  this  difference  between  the  things  we  think  and  the  things  themselves.  Then  we'll  be  happy.&quot;  &quot;Why  is  it  likethis?&quot;  she  asks  me.  &quot;Well,  it's  not  likethis  for  every-  body,&quot;  I  tell  her.  &quot;When  I  was  a  boy,  I  lived  in  a  big  villa,  withhigh  balus-  trades-as  high  as  a  flight  over  the  sea.  And  I  spent  my  days  behind  those  bal-  ustrades.  I  was  a  loner  as  a  child,  and  for  me  everything  was  a  strange  symbol-  the  spacing  of  the  dates  hanging  from  the  tufts  on  the  stalks,  the  crooked  arms  of  the  cactuses,  the  strange  patterns  in  the  gravel  on  the  paths.  Then,  there  were  the  grownups,  whose  job  it  was  to  deal  with  things,  real  things.  All  I  had  to  dowas  discover  new  symbols,  new  meanings.  I've  stayed  that  way  my  whole  life:  I  still  live  in  a  castle  of  meanings,  not  things;  I  still  depend  on  the  others,  the  'grownups,'  the  ones  who  handle  things.  But  there  are  people  who've  worked  at  lathes  ever  since  they  were  children,  worked  with  a  tool  that  makes  things.  That  can  have  no  other  mean-  ing  than  thethingsthe  lathe  makes.  When  I  see  a  machine,  I  look  at  it  as  if  it  were  a  magic  castle-I  imagine  tiny  men  turning  among  the  cogs.  A  lathe.  God  knows  what  a  lathe  is.  Do  you  know  what  a  lathe  is,  Mariamirella&quot;&quot;  &quot;A  lathe.  I'm  not  sure  right  now,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;They  should  teach  everybody  to  use  a  lathe,  instead  of  to  use  a  rifle.  A  rifle  is  just  another  symbolic  thing,  with  no  real  purpose.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  interested  in  lathes,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;See,  it's  easier  for  you:  you've  got  your  sewing  machines  to  save  you,  your  needles  and  whatnot;  you've  got  gas  rings,  typewriters,  even.  You've  only  got   a  few  myths  to  escape  from,  while  everything's  a  symbol  for  me.  But  what  is  definite  is  that  we've  got  to  recon-  quer  things.&quot;  I'm  caressing  her  very  softly.  &quot;So,  am  I  a  thing?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;Ugh,&quot;  I  say.  I've  found  a  small  dimple  on  one  shoulder,  above  the  armpit-soft,  with  no  bone  beneath,  like  the  dimples  in  cheeks.  I  speak  with  my  lips  on  the  dimple.  &quot;Shoulder  like  cheek,&quot;  I  say.  It's  incomprehensible.  &quot;What?&quot;  she  asks.  But  she  doesn't  care  in  the  least  what  I  say  to  her.  &quot;Race  like  June,&quot;  I  say,  still  into  the  dimple.  She  doesn't  understand  what  I'm  doing,  but  she  likes  it  and  laughs.  She's  a  nice  girl.  &quot;Sea  like  arrival,&quot;  I  say,  then  take  my  mouth  from  her  dimple  and  put  my  ear  there  to  listen  to  the  echo.  All  I  hear  is  her  breathing  and,  buried  far  away,  her  heart.  &quot;Heart  like  train,&quot;  I  say.  There:  now  Mariamirella  isn't  a  thought  Mariamirella  plus  a  real  Maria-  mirella-she's  Mariamirella!  And  what  we're  doing  now  isn't  something  thought  plus  something  real-the  flight  above  the  roofs,  and  the  house  swayinghigh  like  the  palm  trees  from  the  window  of  my  house  in  the  village.  A  great  wind  has  taken  our  top  floor  and  is  carrying  it  across  the  skies  and  the  red  ranks  of  roof  tiles.  N  the  shore  by  my  village,  the  sea  has  noticed  me  and  is  welcoming  me  like  a  big  dog.  The  sea,  gigantic  friend  with  small  white  hands  that  scratch  the  shingle:  all  at  once  it  sweeps  over  the  buttress  of  the  breakwater,  rears  its  white  belly,  and  leaps  over  the  moun-  tains.  Here  it  comes,  bounding  along  cheerfully  like  a  huge  dog  on  the  white  paws  of  the  undertow.  The  crickets  fall  silent,  all  the  lowlands  are  flooded,  and  the  fields  and  vineyards,  till  just  one  peasant  raises  his  pitchfork  and  shouts.  The  sea  disappears,  as  though  it  had  been  drunk  by  the  land.  Bye,  sea.  Going  out,  Mariamirella  and  I  run  as  fast  as  we  can  down  the  stairs,  before  the  landlady  appears  at  the  barred  window  and  tries  to  understand  everything,  looking  us  in  the  eyes.  %  (Written  in  1946.  Translated,  from  the  Italian,  by  Tim  Parks.)  "