 HIS  WOMEN  BY  ALICE  ADAMS THINK  we  should  try  it  again.  You  move  back  in,&quot;  says  Meredith,  in  her  lovely,  low,  dishon-  est  Southern  voice.  Carter  asks,  &quot;But-  Adam?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  seeing  him  anymore.&quot;  Her  large  face,  not  pretty  but  memorable,  braves  his  look  of  disbelief.  Her  big,  deep-  brown  eyes  are  set  just  too  close,  her  shapely  mouth  is  a  little  too  full,  and  greedy.  Big,  tall,  dark,  sexy  Meredith,  who  is  still  by  law  his  wife.  She  adds,  &quot;I  do  see  him  around  the  campus,  I  mean,  but  we're  just  friends  now.&quot;  That's  what  you  said  before,  Carter  does  not  say,  but  that  unspoken  sentence  hangs  there  in  the  empty  space  between  them.  She  knows  it  as  well  as  he  does.  They  are  sitting  in  the  garden  behind  her  house-their  house,  actually,  joint  ownership  being  one  of  their  central  prob-  lems,  as  Carter  sees  it.  In  any  case,  now  in  early  summer,  in  Chapel  Hill,  the  garden  is  lovely.  The  roses  over  which  Carter  has  labored  in  seasons  past-pruning,  spray-  ing,  and  carefully,  scientifically  feed-  ing-are  in  fragrant,  delicately  full  bloom:  great  bursts  of  red  and  flame,  yellow  and  pink  and  white.  The  beds  are  untidy  now,  neglected.  Adam,  who  never  actually  moved  in  (Carter  thinks),  is  not  a  gar-  dener,  and  Meredith  has  grown  careless.  She  says,  with  apretty  laugh,  &quot;We're  not  getting  younger.  Isn't  it  time  we  did  something  mature,  like  making  our  marriage  work?&quot;  &quot;Since  we  can't  afford  a  divorce.&quot;  He,  too,  laughs,  but  since  what  he  says  is  true,  no  joke,  it  falls  flat.  And  Meredith  chooses  to  ignore  it;  they  are  not  to  talk  about  money,  not  this  time.  &quot;You  know  I've  always  loved  you,&quot;  she  says,  her  eyes  larger  and  a  warmer  brown  than  ever.  Perhaps  in  a  way  she  has,  thinks  Car-  ter.  Meredith  loves  everyone;  it  is  a  part  of  her  charm.  Why  not  him,  too?  Carter  and  Adam  and  all  her  many  friends  and  students  (Meredith  teaches  in  the  mu-       sic  department  at  the  university),  and  most  cats  and  dogs  and  birds.  She  adds,  almost  whispering,  sexily,  &quot;And  I  think  you  love  me,  too.  We  be-  long  together.&quot;  &quot;Tll  have  to  think  about  it,&quot;  Carter  tells  her,  somewhat  stiffly.  The  brown  eyes  narrow,  just  a  little.  &quot;How  about  Chase?  You  still  see  her?&quot;  &quot;Well,  sort  of.&quot;  He  does  not  say  &quot;as  friends,&quot;  since  this  is  not  true,  though  Carter  has  understood  that  the  presence  of  Chase  in  his  life  has  raised  his  stature-  his  value,  soto  speal-and  he  wishes  he  could  say  that  they  are  still  &quot;close.&quot;  But  four  years  of  military  school,  at  The  Citadel,  left  Carter  a  stickler  for  the  literal  truth,  along  with  giving  him  his  ramrod  posture  and  a  few  other  unhelp-  ful  hangups-according  to  the  shrink  he  drives  over  to  Durham  to  see,  twice  a  week.  Dr.  Chen,  a  diminutive  Chinese  of  man-  darin  manners  and  a  posture  almost  as  stiff  in  its  way  as  Carter's  own.  (&quot;Oh,  great&quot;  was  Chase's  comment  on  hearing  this  description.  &quot;You  must  think  you're  back  in  some  Oriental  Citadel.&quot;)  In  any  case,  he  is  unable  to  lie  now  to  Meredith,  who  says,  with  a  small  and  satisfied  laugh,  &quot;So  we're  both  free.  It's  fated,  you  see?&quot;  LONG  time  ago,  before  Meredith  and  long  before  Chase,  Carter  was  married  to  Isabel,  who  was  small  and  fair  and  thin  and  rich,  truly  beauti-  ful  and  chronically  unfaithful.  In  those  days,  Carter  was  a  graduate  student  at  the  university,  in  business  administra-  tion,  which  these  days  he  teaches.  They  lived,  back  then,  he  and  Isabel,  in  a  fairly  modest  rented  house  out  on  Franklin  Street,  somewhat  crowded  with  Isabel's  valuable  inherited  antiques;  the  effect  was  grander  than  that  of  any  other  graduate  students',  or  even  young  pro-  fessors',  homes.  As  Isabel  was  grander,  more  elegant  than  other  wives,  in  her  big  hats  and  long  skirts  and  very  high  heels,  with  her  fancy  hors  Poeuvres  and  her  collection  of  forties  big-band  tapes,  to  which  she  loved  to  dance.  After  din-  ner,  at  parties  at  their  house,  as  others  cleared  off  the  table,  Isabel  would  turn  up  the  music  and  lower  the  lights  in  the  living  room.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Let's  all  dance.&quot;  Sometimes  there  were  arguments  later:  &quot;I  feel  rather  foolish  saying  this,  but  I  don't  exactly  like  the  way  you  dance  with  Walter.&quot;  &quot;Whatever  do  you  mean?  Walter's  a  marvellous  dancer.&quot;  But  she  laughed  unpleasantly,  her  wide,  thin,  dark-red  mouth  showing  small,  perfect  teeth;  she  knew  exactly  what  he  meant.  What  do  you  do  if  your  wife  persists  in  dancing  ZHke  that  in  your  presence?  And  if  she  even  tells  you,  on  a  Sunday,  that  she  thinks  she  will  drive  to  the  beach  with  Sam,  since  you  have  so  many  papers  to  grade?  She  promises  they  won't  be  late,  and  kisses  Carter  goodbye  very  tenderly.  But  they  are  late,  very  late.  Lovely  Isabel,  who  comes  into  the  house  by  herself  and  is  not  only  late  but  a  little  drunk,  as  Car-  ter  himself  is  by  then,  having  had  con-  siderable  bourbon  for  dinner,  with  some  peanuts  for  nourishment.  Nothing  that  he  learned  at  The  Cita-  del  had  prepared  Carter  for  any  of  this.  Standing  in  the  doorway,  Isabel  thrust  her  body  into  a  dancer's  pose,  one  thin  hip  pushed  forward  and  her  chin,  too,  stuck  out-a  sort  of  mime  of  defi-  ance.  She  said,  &quot;Well,  what  can  I  say?  I  know  I'm  late,  and  we  drank  too  much.&quot;  &quot;Obviously.&quot;  &quot;But  so  have  you,  from  the  look  of  things.&quot;  &quot;I  guess.&quot;  &quot;Well,  let's  have  another  drink  to-  gether.  What  the  hell.  We  always  have  fun  drinking,  don't  we,  darling  Carter?&quot;  &quot;I  guess.&quot;  It  was  true.  Often,  drinking,  they  had  hours  of  long,  wonderful,  excited  con-  versations,  impossible  to  recall  the  fol-  lowing  day.  As  was  the  case  this  time,  the  night  of  Isabel's  Sunday  at  the  beach  with  Sam.  Drinking  was  what  they  did  best  to-  gether;  making  love  was  not.  This  was  something  that  they  never  discussed,  al-  Z  &amp;  ce  ANDERS  WENNG  " b"though  back  then,  in  the  early  seventies,  peopledid  talk  about  it  quitea  lot,  and  many  people  seemed  to  do  it  all  the  time.  But  part  of  their  problem,  sexually,  had  to  do  with  drink  itself,  not  surprisingly.  A  few  belts  of  bourbon  or  a  couple  of  Sunday-lunch  Martinis  made  Isabel  ag-  gressively  amorous,  full  of  tricks  and  wiles  and  somewhat  startling  perverse  persua-  sions.  But  Carter,  although  his  mind  was  aroused  and  his  imagination  inflamed,  often  found  himself  incapacitated.  Out  of  it,  turned  off.  This  did  not  always  happen,  but  it  happened  far  too  often.  Sometimes,  though,  there  were  long,  luxurious  Sunday  couplings,  perhaps  with  some  breakfast  champagne  or  some  dope;  Isabel  was  extremely  fond  of  an  early-morning  joint.  Then  it  could  be  as  great  as  any  of  Carter's  boyhood  imaginings  of  sex.  But  much  more  often,  as  Isabel  made  all  the  passionate  gestures  in  her  consid-  erable  repertoire,  Carter  would  have  to  murmur,  &quot;Sorry,  dear,&quot;  to  her  ear.  Nuz-  zling,  kissing  her  neck.  &quot;Sorry  I'm  such  a  poop.&quot;  And  so  it  went  the  night  she  came  home  from  Sam,  from  the  beach.  They  had  some  drinks,  and  they  talked.  &quot;Sam's  actually  kind  of  a  jerk,&quot;  said  Isabel.  &quot;And  you  know,  we  didn't  actually  do  any-  thing.  So  let's  go  to  bed.  Come,  kiss  me  and  say  I'm  forgiven,  show  me  I'm  for-  given.&quot;  But  he  couldn't  show  her,  and  at  last  it  was  she  who  had  to  forgive.  Another,  somewhat  lesser  problem  was  that  Isabel  really  did  not  like  it  in  Chapel  Hill.  &quot;It's  awfully  pretty,&quot;  she  admitted,  &quot;and  we  do  get  an  occasional  good  concert,  or  even  an  art  show.  But,  otherwise,  what  a  terrifically  overrated  town!  And  the  faculty  wives,  now  really.  I  miss  my  friends.&quot;  Therefore  Carter  was  pleased,  he  was  very  pleased,  when  Isabel  began  to  speak  with  some  warmth  of  this  new  friend,  Meredith.  &quot;She's  big  and  fat,  in  fact  she's  built  like  a  cow,  and  she's  very  South-  ern,  but  shehas  a  pretty  voice  and  she  works  in  the  music  department,  she  teaches  there,  and  she  seems  to  have  a  sense  of  humor.  You  won't  mind  if  I  ask  her  over?&quot;  Meeting  Meredith,  and  gradually  spending  some  time  with  her,  Carter  at  first  thought  she  was  a  good  scout,  like  someone's  sister.  Like  many  big  women  (Isabel's  description  had  been  unkind),  she  had  a  pleasant  disposition  and  lovely  skin.  [REDACTED]  long  brown  hair,  and  her  eyes,  if  just  too  closely  placed,  were  the  clear,  warm  brown  of  Southern  brooks.  With  Carter,  her  new  friend's  husband,  she  was  flirty,  in  a  friendly,  pleasant  way-  the  way  of  Southern  women,  a  way  he  was  used  to.  She  was  like  his  mother's  friends,  and  his  cousins,  and  the  nice  girls  from  Ashley  Hall  whom  he  used  to  take  to  dances  at  The  Citadel.  Meredith  became  the  family  friend.  She  was  often  invited  to  dinner  parties,  or  sometimes  just  for  supper  by  herself.  She  and  Isabel  always  seemed  to  have  a  lot  to  talk  about.  Concerts  in  New  York,  composers  and  musicians,  not  to  men-  tiona  lot  of  local  gossip.  When  they  were  alone,  Carter  gath-  ered,  they  talked  about  Meredith's  boy-  friends,  of  which  she  seemed  to  have  a  large  and  steady  supply.  &quot;She's  this  certain  type  of  Southern  belle&quot;  was  Isabel's  opinion.  &quot;Not  threateningly  attractive,  but  sexy  and  basically  comfy.  She  makes  men  feel  good,  with  those  big,  adoring  cow  eyes.&quot;  Did  Isabel  confide  in  Meredith?  Car-  ter  suspected  that  she  did,  and  later  he  found  out  for  certain,  from  Meredith,  that  she  had.  About  her  own  affairs.  Her  boyfriends.  LTHOUGH  he  had  every  reason  to  know  that  she  was  unhappy,  Car-  ter  was  devastated  by  Isabel's  departure.  Against  all  reason,  miserably,  he  felt  that  his  life  was  demolished.  Irrationally,  in-  stead  of  remembering  a  bitter,  complain-  ing  Isabel  (&quot;I  can't  stand  this  tacky  town  a  minute  longer&quot;)  or  an  Isabel  with  whom  things  did  not  work  out  well  in  bed  (&quot;Well,  Jesus  Christ,  is  that  what  you  learned  at  The  Citadel?&quot;),  he  re-  called  only  her  beauty.  Her  clothes,  and  her  scents.  Her  long  blond  hair.  He  was  quite  surprised,  at  first,  when  Meredith  began  to  call  a  lot  with  mes-  sages  of  sympathy,  when  she  seemed  to  take  his  side.  &quot;You  poor  guy,  you  certainly  didn't  deserve  this&quot;  was  one  of  the  things  that  she  said  at  the  time.  Told  that  he  was  finding  it  hard  to  eat-&quot;I  don't  know,  ev-  erything  I  try  tastes  awful&quot;  began  to  arrive  every  day  or  so,  at  mealtimes,  with  delicately  flavored  chicken,  and  oven-  fresh  Sally  Lunn,  tomatoes  from  her  gar-  den,  and  cookies,  lots  and  lots  of  home-  made  cookies.  Then  she  took  to  inviting  him  to  her  house  for  dinner-often.  As  he  left  her  house,  at  night,  Carter  would  always  kiss  Meredith,  in  a  friendly  83  way,  but  somehow,  imperceptibly,  the  kisses  and  their  accompanying  embraces  became  more  prolonged.  Also,  Carter  found  that  this  good-night  moment  was  something  he  looked  forward  to.  Until  the  night  when  Meredith  whispered  to  him,  &quot;You  really  don't  have  to  go  home,  you  know.  You  could  stay  with  me.&quot;  More  kissing,  and  then,  &quot;Please  stay.  I  want  you,  my  darling  Carter.&quot;  Sex  with  Meredith  was  sweet  and  pleasant  and  friendly,  and  if  it  lacked  the  wild  rush  that  he  had  sometimes  felt  with  Isabel,  at  least  when  he  failed  her  she  was  nice  about  it.  Sweet  and  com-  forting.  Unlike  angry  Isabel.  HEY  married  as  soon  as  his  divorce  was  final,  and  together  they  bought  the  bargain  house,  on  a  hill  outside  town,  and  they  set  about  remodelling:  shingling,  making  agarden,  making  a  kitchen  and  a  bedroom  with  wonderful  views.  Carter,  like  everyone  else  in  the  high-flying  eighties,  had  made  some  money  on  the  market,  andhe  put  all  this  into  thehouse.  The  house  became  very  beautiful;  they  loved  it,  and  in  that  house  Carter  and  Meredith  thrived.  Or  so  he  thought.  He  thought  so  until  the  day  she  came  to  him  in  anguished  tears  and  told  him,  &quot;This  terrible  thing.  I've  fallen  in  love  with  Adam.&quot;  Adam,  a  lean  young  musi-  cian,  a  cellist,  who  had  been  to  the  house  for  dinner  a  couple  of  times.  Unprepos-  sessing,  Carter  would  have  said  of  him.  Carter  felt,  at  first,  a  virile  rage.  Blood-  ily  murderous  fantasies  obsessed  his  wak-  ing  hours;  at  night  he  could  barely  sleep.  He  was  almost  unrecognizable  to  himself,  this  furiously,  righteously  impassioned  man.  With  Meredith  he  was  icily,  enragedly  cold.  And  then,  one  day,  Meredith  came  to  him  and  with  more  tears  she  told  him,  &quot;It's  over,  I'll  never  see  him  again.  Or  if  I  do  we'll  just  be  friends.&quot;  After  that  followed  a  brief  and  in-  tense  and,  to  Carter,  slightly  unreal  period  of,  well,  fucking:  the  fury  with  which  they  went  at  each  other  could  not  be  called  &quot;making  love.&quot;  Meredith  was  the  first  to  taper  off;  she  responded  less  and  less  ac-  tively,  although  as  alwaysshe  was  pleas-  ant,  nice.  But  Carter  finally  asked  her  what  was  wrong,  and  she  admitted,  through  more  tears,  &quot;It's  Adam.  I'm  seeing  him  again.  I  mean,  we're  in  love  again.&quot;  This  time,  Carter  reacted  not  with  rage  but  with  a  sort  of  defeated  grief.  He  " b"84  felt  terribly  old  and  battered.  Cuckold.  The  ugly,  old-fashioned  word  resounded,  echoing  through  his  brain.  He  thought,  I  am  the  sort  of  man  to  whom  women  are  unfaithful.  When  he  moved  out,  away  from  Meredith  and  into  an  apartment,  and  Chase  Landau  fell  in  love  with  him  (quite  rapidly,  it  seemed),  Carter  as-  sumed  that  she  must  be  crazy.  It  even  seemed  a  little  nuts  for  her  to  ask  him  for  dinner  soon  after  theymet,  introduc-  ing  themselves  in  the  elevator.  Chase  lived  in  his  building,  but  her  apartment,  which  contained  her  studio,  was  about  twice  the  size  of  Carter's  and  much  nicer,  with  balconies  and  views.  &quot;I  liked  your  face,&quot;  she  later  explained.  &quot;I  always  go  for  those  narrow,  cold,  mean  eyes.&quot;  Laughing,  making  it  a  joke.  Chase  was  a  tall,  thin,  red-haired  woman,  not  Southern  but  from  New  York,  and  somewhat  abrasive  in  manner.  A  painter  of  considerable  talent  and  reputation  (no  wonder  Meredith  was  impressed).  Carter  himself  was  im-  pressed  at  finding  inquiries  from  Wo's  Who  lying  around,  especially  because  she  never  mentioned  it.  In  his  field,  only  the  really  major  players  made  it.  Her  paintings  were  huge,  dark,  and  violent  abstractions,  incomprehensible.  Discomforting.  How  could  anyone  buy  these  things  and  live  with  them?  As  they  sat  having  drinks  that  first  night,  working  at  light  conversation,  Carter  felt  the  paint-  ings  as  enormous,  hostile  presences.  Chase  was  almost  as  tall  as  Carter  was,  close  to  six  feet,  and  thin,  but  heavy-  breasted,  which  may  have  accounted  for  her  bad  posture;  she  tended  to  slouch,  and  later  she  admitted,  &quot;When  I  was  very  young  I  didn't  like  my  body  at  all.  So  conspicuous.&quot;  Carter  liked  her  body,  very  much.  Her  eyes  were  intense  and  serious,  always.  As  they  were  finishing  dinner  she  said  to  him,  &quot;Your  shoulders  are  won-  derful.  I  mean  the  angle  of  them.  This,&quot;  and  she  reached  with  strong  hands  to  show  him.  He  found  himself  aroused  by  that  touch,  wanting  to  turn  and  grasp  her.  To  kiss.  But  not  doing  so.  Later  on,  he  did  kiss  her  good  night,  but  very  chastely.  Used  to  living  with  women,  with  Isa-  bel,  and  then  with  Meredith,  Carter  be-  gan  to  wonder  what  to  do  by  himself  at  night.  He  had  never  been  much  of  a  reader,  and  most  television  bored  him.  In  the  small  town  that  Chapel  Hill  still  was  in  many  ways,  you  would  think  (Carter  thought)  that  people  knowing  of  the  separation  would  call  and  ask  him  over,  but  so  far  no  one  had.  He  wished  he  had  more  friends;  he  should  have  been  warmer,  kinder.  Closer  to  people.  He  felt  very  old,  and  alone.  (He  wondered,  Are  my  eyes  mean?  Am  I  mean?)  He  called  Chase  and  asked  her  out  to  dinner.  &quot;I  know  it's  terribly  short  notice,  but  are  you  busy  tonight?&quot;  &quot;No,  in  fact  I'd  love  to  go  out  to-  night.  I'm  glad  you  called.&quot;  His  heart  leaped  up  at  those  mild  words.  During  that  dinner,  Chase  talked  quite  a  lot  about  the  art  world:  her  New  York  gallery,  the  one  in  [REDACTED],  the  local  art  department.  He  listened,  grateful  for  the  entertainment  she  provided,  but  he  really  wasn't  paying  much  attention.  He  was  thinking  of  later  on:  Would  she,  possibly,  so  soon-  She  would  not.  At  the  door,  she  bid  him  a  clear  good  night,  after  a  rather  perfunctory  social  kiss.  She  thanked  him  for  the  dinner.  She  had  talked  too  much,  she  feared;  she  tended  to  do  that  with  new  people,  she  told  him,  with  a  small,  not  quite  apologetic,  laugh.  FROM  a  friend  in  the  law  school,  Car-  ter  got  the  name  of  a  lawyer,  a  woman,  with  whom  he  spent  an  uncom-  fortable,  discouraging,  and  expensive  half  hour.  What  it  came  to  was  that,  in  order  to  recover  his  share  in  the  house,  Carter  would  have  to  force  Meredith  to  sell  it,  unless  she  could  buy  him  out.  None  of  this  was  final,  of  course;  it  was  just  the  lawyer's  temporary  take  on  things.  Still,  it  was  deeply  depressing  to  Carter.  Coming  home,  in  the  downstairs  lobby  of  his  building  he  ran  into  Chase,  who  was  carrying  a  sack  of  groceries,  which  of  course  he  offered  to  take.  &quot;Only  if  you'll  come  and  have  supper  withme.&quot;  She  flashed  him  a  challeng-  ing  smile.  &quot;I  must  have  been  thinking  of  you.  I  know  I  bought  too  much.&quot;  That  night  it  was  he  who  talked  a  lot.  She  only  interrupted  from  time  to  time  with  small  but  sharp-edged  questions.  &quot;If  you  didn't  want  to  go  to  The  Citadel,  why  didn't  you  speak  up?&quot;  And  &quot;Do  you  think  you  trusted  Meredith  at  first  because  she's  not  as  good-looking  as  Isabel?&quot;  The  THE  NEW  YORKER,  MAY  15,  1995  sort  of  questions  that  he  usually  hated-  that  he  hated  from  Dr.  Chen-but  not  so  with  Chase;  her  dark,  intelligent  eyes  were  kind  and  alert.  He  felt  safe  with  her,  and  appreciated.  He  almost  forgot  his  wish  to  make  loveto  her.  But  then  he  remembered,  and  all  that  desire  returned.  He  told  her,  &quot;It's  all  I  can  do  not  to  touch  you.  You're  most  terrifically  attractive  to  me.&quot;  By  way  of  answer,  she  smiled  and  leaned  to  meet  him  in  a  kiss.  For  a  long  time,  then,  like  adolescents,  they  sat  there  kissing  on  her  sofa,  until  she  whis-  pered,  &quot;Come  on,  let's  go  to  bed.  This  is  silly.&quot;  Carter  had  not  expected  their  prog-  ress  to  be  quite  so  rapid.  He  hardly  knew  her,  did  he  really  want  this?  But  not  long  after  that,  they  were  indeed  in  bed,  both  naked.  He  caressed  her  soft,  heavy  breasts.  Pausing,  sitting  up  to  reach  some-  where,  Chase  said,  &quot;You'll  have  to  wear  this.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Lord,  I  haven't  done  that  since  I  was  twenty.  And  look,  I'm  safe.  I  never  played  around.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  but  Meredith  did.  A  lot.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  I  can-&quot;  &quot;Here,  I'll  help  you.&quot;  &quot;Damn,  I'm  losing  it,  I  knew  I  would.&quot;  Strictly  speaking,  technically,  that  night  was  not  a  great  success.  Still,  lit-  erally  they  had  gone  to  bed  together,  and  Carter's  feeling  was  that  this  was  not  a  woman  who  fell  into  bed  very  eas-  ily  (unlike-he  had  to  think  this-either  Isabel  or  Meredith).  THE  next  day  he  had  another  ap-  pointment  with  the  lawyer,  who  had  talked  with  Meredith's  lawyer,  who  had  said  that  things  looked  worse.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  I'm  so  drawn  to  you,&quot;  Chase  told  him,  &quot;but  Ireally  am.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;That's  probably  not  a  good  sign.  For  you,  I  mean.  The  men  I've  really  liked  best  were  close  to  certi-  fiable.  But  you're  not  crazy,  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Not  so  far  as  I  know.&quot;  Chase  did  not  seem  crazy  to  him.  She  was  hardworking,  very  intelligent.  Her  two  sons,  with  whom  she  got  along  well,  were  off  in  school,  and  she  was  sur-  rounded  by  warm  and  admiring  friends;  her  phone  rang  all  the  time  with  invita-  tions,  friendly  voices.  But,  as  Carter  put  it  to  himself,  she  did  sometimes  seem  a  " b"HIS  WOMEN  little  much.  A  little  more  than  he  had  bargained  for.  Or  more  than  he  wasup  to  right  now.  Their  sexual  life,  despite  her  contin-  ued  insistence  on-hated  phrase-&quot;safe  sex,&quot;  was  sometimes  great,  then  not.  Chase  complained,  though  nicely,  only  that  out  of  bed  he  was  not  affectionate.  &quot;I  could  use  more  plain,  unsexy  touch-  ing,&quot;  she  said,  and  he  tried  to  comply,  though  demonstrativeness  was  not  at  all  inhis  nature.  CARTER\xe2\x80\x99S  broker  called  with  bad  news,  quite  a  lot  of  bad  news.  Car-  ter,  like  most  people  in  the  market,  had  taken  a  beating.  Even  Chase  would  admit  that  her  work  habits  were  a  little  strange.  She  liked  to  get  up  late  and  to  spend  a  couple  of  hours  drinking  coffee,  phon-  ing,  maybe  writing  a  letter  or  two.  She  would  then  go  into  her  studio  (a  room  to  which  Carter  was  never  admitted).  At  times  she  would  emerge  to  eat  a  piece  of  fruit,  heat  some  soup,  or,  less  fre-  quently,  go  out  for  a  short  walk  along  the  gravelled  paths  of  old  Chapel  Hill.  Back  in  her  studio,  immersed  in  her  work,  quite  often  she  would  forget  about  dinner  until  ten  at  night,  or  eleven;  she  did  not  forget  dinner  dates  but  she  sometimes  phoned  to  break  or  to  post-  pone  them.  Carter  argued.  &quot;But  if  you  started  ear-  lier  in  the  morning  you  could  finish-&quot;  &quot;I  know.  I  know  it's  impractical,  but  it's  the  way  I  seem  to  have  to  work.  I'm  sorry.  It's  not  something  I  can  change.&quot;  Along  with  feeling  some  annoyance,  Carter  was  moved  and  a  little  alarmed  by  her  intensity,  her  high  purpose.  Sometimes,  in  bed,  Chase  cried  out  quick,  impassioned  words  of  love  to  him-which  Carter  did  not  answer  in  kind,  nor  did  he  take  what  she  said  at  those  moments  too  seriously.  In  fact,  as  he  was  later  forced  to  recognize,  he  gave  rather  little  thought  to  Chase's  deeper  feelings.  &quot;You  didn't  want  to  deal  with  what  I  felt,&quot;  she  accused  him,  and  he  had  to  admit  that  that  was  entirely  correct.  &quot;Adam  and  I  aren't  getting  along  at  [REDACTED];  said  Meredith  to  Carter,  over  the  phone.  &quot;I  don't  know-he's  a  lot  more  neurotic  than  I  thought  he  was.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that's  too  bad&quot;  was  Carter's  re-  sponse.  Not  saying,  Now  you  find  this  out,  after  wrecking  our  marriage  and  costing  God  knows  what  in  lawyers'  bills.  &quot;He's  very  dependent,&quot;  Meredith  said.  &quot;I  don't  really  like  that.  I  guess  I  was  spoiled  by  you.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  why  she's  telling  me  this  stuff,&quot;  Carter  said  to  Chase  when  she  called;  the  old  instinct  of  compulsive  honesty  had  forced  him  to  repeat  the  conversation  with  Meredith.  &quot;I  thinkshe  wants  you  back,&quot;  Chase  told  him  when  he  phoned.  &quot;You  wait  and  see.&quot;  &quot;You  think  so?  Really?&quot;  &quot;Jesus,  Carter,  you  sound  sort  of  pleased.  If  she  did,  would  you  even  con-  sider  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  know.&quot;  As  always,  the  literal  truth:  he  did  not  know.  &quot;God,  Carter,  she  slept  with  every-  one.  Everyone  in  townknows  that.  Why  do  you  think  I  insisted  on  safe  sex?&quot;  She  was  furiously  excited,  almost  hysterical,  Carter  thought.  Shewas  out  of  control.  A  little  frightening-but  he  only  said,  &quot;Oh,  come  on,  now.&quot;  &quot;How  tacky  can  you  get!&quot;  Chase  cried  out.  And  then  she  said,  &quot;Look,  don't  call  me,  I'll  call  you,  O.K.?&quot;  And  hung  up.  True  to  her  word,  shedid  call  him-  once,  very  late  at  night.  &quot;I've  had  some  wine,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  shouldn't  be  calling,  I  mean,  otherwise  I  wouldn't.  But  I  just  wantedyou  to  know  a  couple  of  things.  One,  I  was  really  in  love  with  you.  God,  if  I  needed  further  proof  that  I'm  seri-  85  ously  deranged.  I  always  fall  in  love  with  the  most  unavailable  man  anywhere  around.  Emotionally.  Mean  eyes,  good  shoulders.  Shiz,  why  did  I  call?  Good  night!&quot;  And  she  hung  up,  loud  and  clear.  A  ridiculous  and  quite  unnecessary  con-  versation,  in  Carter's  view.  NOW,  in  the  afternoon  sunshine,  Car-  ter  looks  about  at  all  the  roses,  and  the  scented  white  wisteria-at  their  lovely  house  and  at  unlovely,  untrust-  worthy,  but  deeply  familiar  Meredith.  He  finds  that,  despite  himself,  he  is  thinking  of  Chase.  Of  her  passion  (those  cries  of  love)  and  her  scornful  rage  and  of  her  final  avowals  (but  she  was  drunk).  Is  it  now  too  late?  Supposehe  went  to  her  and  said  that  he  was  through  with  Meredith,  would  she  take  him  back?  Would  she  ask  him  to  come  and  live  with  her?  (So  far,  she  has  never  suggested  such  a  thing.)  Could  they  marry?  No  is  the  answer  that  Carter  gives  to  all  these  questions.  No,  Chase  would  probably  not  take  him  back,  and  no,  there  is  no  way  he  could  afford  to  marry  her.  Even  if  he  were  sure  that  he  wanted  to.  Chase  is  crazy-she  must  be  crazy.  Look  at  those  paintings.  There  in  the  warm  sunlight  he  suddenly  shivers,  as  though  haunted.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  says  to  Meredith,  although  she  hasn't  spoken  for  a  while.  &quot;Yes,  O.K.  All  right.&quot"