        FICTION  JEALOUS  HUSBAND  RETURNS  IN  FORM  OF  PARROT  NEVER  can  quite  say  as  much  as  I  know.  I  look  at  other  parrots  and  I  wonder  if  it's  the  same  for  them,  if  somebody  is  trapped  in  each  of  them,  paying  some  kind  of  price  for  living  their  life  in  a  certain  way.  For  instance,  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  say,  and  I'm  sitting  on  a  perch  in  a  pet  store  in  [REDACTED]  and  what  I'm  really  thinking  is  Holy  shit.  It's  you.  And  what's  happened  is  I'm  looking  at  my  wife.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  she  says,  and  she  comes  over  to  me,  and  I  can't  believe  how  beautiful  she  is.  Those  great  brown  eyes,  almost  as  dark  as  the  center  of  mine.  And  her  nose-I  don't  remember  her  for  her  nose,  but  its  beauty  is  clear  to  me  now.  Her  nose  is  a  little  too  long,  but  it's  re-  deemed  by  the  faint  hook  to  it.  She  scratches  the  back  of  my  neck.  Her  touch  makes  my  tail  flare.  I  feel  the  stretch  and  rustle  of  me  back  there.  I  bend  my  head  to  her  and  she  whispers,  &quot;Pretty  bird.&quot;  For  a  moment,  I  think  she  knows  it's  me.  But  she  doesn't,  of  course.  I  say  &quot;Hello&quot;  again  and  I  will  eventually  pick  up  &quot;pretty  bird.&quot;  I  can  tell  that  as  soon  as  she  says  it,  but  for  now  I  can  only  give  her  another  &quot;Hello.&quot;  Her  fingertips  move  through  my  feathers,  and  she  seems  to  know  about  birds.  She  knows  that  to  pet  abird  you  don't  smooth  his  feathers  down,  you  ruffle  them.  But,  of  course,  she  did  that  in  my  hu-  man  life,  as  well.  It's  all  the  same  for  her.  Not  that  I  was  complaining,  even  to  myself,  at  that  moment  in  thepet  shop  when  she  found  me  like  I  presume  she  was  supposed  to.  She  said  it  again-  &quot;Pretty  bird&quot;-and  this  brain  that  works  the  way  it  does  now  could  feel  that  tiny  little  voice  of  mine  ready  to  shape  itself  around  these  sounds.  But  before  I  could  get  them  out  of  my  beak,  there  was  this  guy  at  my  wife's  shoulder,  and  all  my  feathers  went  slick-flat  to  make  me     BY  ROBERT  OLEN  BUTLER  small  enough  not  to  be  seen,  and  I  backed  away.  The  pupils  of  my  eyes  pinned  and  dilated,  and  pinned  again.  He  circled  around  her.  A  guy  that  looked  like  a  meat  packer,  big  in  the  chest  and  thick  with  hair,  the  kind  of  guy  that  I  always  sensedher  eyes  moving  to  when  I  was  alive.  I  had  abare  chest,  and  T'd  look  for  little  black  hairs  on  the  sheets  when  I'd  come  home  on  a  day  with  the  whiff  of  somebody  else  in  the  air.  She  was  still  in  the  same  goddam  rut.  A  &quot;hello&quot;  wouldn't  do,  and  I'd  re-  cently  learned  &quot;good  night,&quot;  but  it  was  the  wrong  suggestion  altogether,  so  I  said  nothing  and  the  guy  circled  her,  and  he  was  looking  at  me  with  a  smug  little  smile,  and  I  fluffed  up  all  my  feathers,  made  myself  about  twice  as  big,  so  big  he'd  see  he  couldn't  mess  with  me.  I  waited  for  him  to  draw  close  enough  for  me  to  takeoff  the  tip  of  his  finger.  But  she  intervened.  Those  nut-  brown  eyes  were  before  me,and  she  said,  &quot;I  want  him.&quot;  And  that's  how  I  ended  up  in  my  own  house  once  again.  She  bought  me  a  large  black  wrought-iron  cage,  very  large,  convinced  by  some  young  guy  who  clerked  in  the  bird  department  and  who  took  her  aside  and  made  his  voice  go  much  too  soft  when  he  was  doing  the  selling  job.  The  meat  packer  didn't  like  it.  I  didn't,  either.  I'd  missed  a  lot  of  chances  to  take  a  bite  out  of  this  clerk  in  my  stay  at  the  shop,  and  I  regretted  that  suddenly.  But  I  got  my  giant  cage,  and  I  guess  I'm  happy  enough  about  that.  I  can  pace  as  much  as  I  want.  I  can  hang  upside  down.  It's  full  of  bird  toys.  That  dan-  gling  thingover  there  with  knots  and  strips  of  rawhide  and  a  bell  at  the  bottom  needs  a  good  thrashing  a  couple  of  times  a  day,  and  I'm  the  bird  to  do  it.  I  look  at  the  very  dangle  of  it,  and  the  thing  is  rough,the  rawhide  and  the  knotted  rope,  and  I  get  this  restlessness  back  in  my  tail,  a  burning,  thrashing  feeling,  and  it's  like  all  the  times  when  I  was  sure  there  was  a  man  naked  with  my  wife.  Then  I  go  to  this  thing  that  feels  so  familiar  and  I  bite  and  bite,  and  it's  very  good.  I  could  haveused  the  thing  the  last  day  I  went  out  of  this  house  as  a  man.  I'd  found  the  address  of  the  new  guy  at  my  wife's  office.  He'd  been  there  a  month,  in  the  shipping  department,  and  three  times  she'd  mentioned  him.  She  didn't  even  have  to  work  with  him,  and  three  times  I  heard  about  him,  just  dropped  into  the  conversation.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she'd  say  when  a  car  commercial  came  on  the  television,  &quot;that  car  there  is  like  the  one  the  new  man  in  shipping  owns.  Just  like  it.&quot;  Hey,  I'm  not  stupid.  She  said  another  thing  about  him  and  then  another,  and  right  after  the  third  one  I  locked  myself  in  the  bathroom,  because  I  couldn't  rage  about  this  anymore.  I  felt  like  a  damn  fool  whenever  I  actually  said  anything  about  this  kind  of  feeling  and  she  looked  at  me  as  though  she  could  start  hating  me  real  easy,  and  so  I  was  working  on  saying  nothing,  even  if  it  meant  locking  myself  up.  My  goal  was  to  hold  my  tongue  about  half  the  time.  That  would  be  a  good  start.  But  this  guy  from  shipping.  I  found  out  his  name  and  his  address,  and  it  was  one  of  her  typical  Saturday  afternoons  of  vague  shopping.  So  I  went  to  his  house,  and  his  car  that  was  just  like  the  com-  mercial  was  outside.  Nobody  was  around  in  the  neighborhood,  and  there  was  this  big  tree  in  back  of  the  house  going  up  to  a  second-floor  window  that  was  making  funny  little  sounds.  I  went  up.  The  shade  was  drawn  butnot  quite  all  the  way.  I  was  holding  on  to  a  limb  with  my  arms  and  legs  wrapped  around  it  like  it  was  her  in  those  times  when  I  could  forget  the  others  for  a  little  while.  But  the  crack  in  the  shade  was  just  out  g  of  view,  and  I  crawled  on  till  there  was  no  limb  left,  and  I  fell  on  my  head.  When  I  think  about  that  now,  my  wings  flap  and  I  feel  myself  lift  up,  and  it  all  4  DERS  WENN  seems  so  avoidable.  Though  I  know  I'm  different  now.  I'm  a  bird.  Except  I'm  not.  That's  what's  confus-  ing.  It's  like  those  times  when  she  would  tell  me  she  loved  me  and  I  actually  be-  lieved  her  and  maybe  it  was  true  and  we  clung  to  each  other  in  bedand  at  times  like  that  I  was  different.I  was  the  man  in  her  life.  I  was  whole  with  her.  Except  even  at  that  moment,  as  I  held  her  sweetly,  there  was  this  other  creature  in-  side  me  who  knew  a  lot  more  about  it  and  couldn't  quite  put  all  the  evidence  together  to  speak.  My  cage  sits  in  the  den.  My  pool  table  is  gone,  and  the  cage  is  sitting  in  that  space,  and  if  I  come  all  the  way  down  to  one  end  of  my  perch  I  can  see  through  the  door  and  down  the  back  hallway  to  the  master  bedroom.  When  she  keeps  the  bedroom  door  open,  I  can  see  the  space  at  the  foot  of  the  bed  but  not  the  bed  itself.  I  can  sense  it  to  the  left,  just  out  of  sight.  I  watch  the  men  go  in  and  I  hear  the  sounds,  but  I  can't  quite  see.  And  they  drive  me  crazy.  I  flap  my  wings  and  I  squawk  and  I  fluff  up  and  Islick  down  and  I  throw  seed  and  I  attack  that  dangly  toy  as  if  it  was  the  guy's  balls,  but  it  does  no  good.  It  neverdid  any  good  in  the  other  life,  either,  the  thrashing  around  I  did  by  myself.  In  that  other  life  I'd  have  given  anything  to  be  standing  in  this  den  with  her  doing  this  thing  with  some  other  guy  just  down  the  hall,  and  all  I  had  to  dowas  walk  down  there  and  turn  the  corner  and  she  couldn't  deny  it  anymore.  But  now  all  I  can  do  is  try  to  let  it  go.  I  sidestep  down  to  the  opposite  end  of  the  cage  and  I  look  out  the  big  slid-  ing  glass  doors  to  the  back  yard.  It's  a  pretty  yard.  There  are  great,  placid  live  oaks  with  good  places  to  roost.  There's  a  blue  sky  that  plucks  at  the  feathers  on  my  chest.  There  areclouds.  Other  birds.  Ely  away.  I  could  just  fly  away.  I  tried  once,  and  I  learned  a  lesson.  She  forgot  and  left  the  door  to  my  cage  open,  and  I  climbed  beak  and  foot,  beak  and  foot,  along  the  bars  and  curled  around  to  stretch  sideways  out  the  door,  and  the  vast  scene  of  peace  was  there,  at  the  other  end  of  the  room.  I  flew.  And  a  pain  flared  through  my  head,  and  I  fell  straight  down,  and  the  room  whirled  around,  and  the  only  good  thing  was  that  she  held  me.She  put  her  hands  under  my  wings  and  lifted  me  and  clutched  me  to  her  breast,  and  I  wish  there  hadn't  been  bees  in  my  head  at  the  time,  so  I  could  have  enjoyed  that,  but  she  put  me  back  in  the  cage  and  wept  awhile.  That  touched  me,  her  tears.  And  I  looked  back  to  the  wall  of  sky  and  trees.  There  was  something  invisible  there  be-  tween  me  and  that  dream  of  peace.  I  re-  membered,  eventually,  about  glass,  and  I  knew  I'd  been  lucky;  I  knew  that  for  the  little,  fragile-boned  skull  I  was  do-  ing  all  this  thinking  in,  it  meant  death.  She  wept  that  day,  but  by  the  night  she  had  another  man.  A  guy  with  a  thick  [REDACTED]-truck-stop  accent  and  pale  white  skin  and  an  Adam's  apple  big  as  my  seed  ball.  This  guy  has  been  around  for  a  few  weeks,  andhe  makes  a  whooping  sound  down  the  hallway,  just  out  of  my  sight.  At  times  like  that,  I  want  to  fly  against  the  bars  of  the  cage,  but  I  don't.  I  have  to  remember  how  the  world  has  changed.  HE'S  single  now,  of  course.  Her  hus-  band,  the  man  that  I  was,  is  dead  to  her.  She  does  not  understand  all  that  is  behind  my  &quot;hello.&quot;  I  know  many  words,  for  a  parrot.  I  am  a  yellow-nape  Amazon,  a  handsome  bird,  I  think,  green  with  a  splash  of  yellow  at  the  back  of  my  neck.  I  talk  pretty  well,  but  none  of  my  words  are  adequate.  I  can't  make  her  understand.  And  what  would  I  say  if  I  could?  I  was  jealous  in  life.  I  admit  it.  I  would  admit  it  to  her.  But  it  was  because  of  my  connec-  tionto  her.  I  would  explain  that.  When  we  held  each  other,  I  had  no  past  at  all,  no  present  but  her  body,  no  future  but  to  lie  there  and  not  let  her  go.  I  was  an  egg  hatched  beneath  her  crouching  body,  I  entered  as  a  chick  into  her  wet  sky  of  a  body,  and  all  that  I  wished  was  to  sit  on  her  shoulder  and  fluff  my  feath-  ers  and  lay  my  head  against  her  cheek,  with  my  neck  exposed  to  her.  hand.  And  so  the  glances  that  I  could  see  in  her  troubled  me  deeply:  the  movement  of  her  eyes  in  public  to  other  men,  the  laughs  sent  across  a  room,  the  tracking  of  her  mind  behind  her  blank  eyes,  pursuing  images  of  others,  her  distraction  even  in  our  bed,  the  ghosts  that  were  there  of  men  who'd  touched  her,  perhaps  even  that  very  day.  I  was  not  part  of  all  those  other  men  who  were  part  of  her.  I  didn't  want  to  connect  to  all  that.  It  was  only  her  that  I  would  fluff  for,  but  these  oth-  ers  were  there  also,  and  I  couldn't  put  them  aside.  I  sensed  them  inside  her,  and  so  they  were  inside  me.  If  I  had  the  81  words,  these  are  the  things  I  would  say.  But  half  an  hour  ago,  there  was  a  moment  that  thrilled  me.  A  word,  a  word  we  all  knew  in  thepet  shop,  was  just  the  right  word  after  all.  This  guy  with  his  cowboy  belt  buckle  and  rattle-  snake  boots  and  his  pasty  face  and  his  twanging  words  of  love  trailed  after  my  wife  through  the  den,  past  my  cage,  and  I  said,  &quot;Cracker.&quot;  He  even  flipped  his  head  back  a  little  at  this  in  surprise.  He'd  been  called  that  before  to  his  face,  I  re-  alized.  I  said  it  again,  &quot;Cracker.&quot;  But  to  him  I  was  a  bird,  and  he  let  it  pass.  &quot;Cracker,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Hello,  cracker.&quot;  That  was  even  better.  They  were  out  of  sight  through  the  hall  doorway,  and  I  hustled  along  the  perch  and  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  them  before  they  made  the  turn  to  the  bedand  I  said,  &quot;Hello,  cracker,&quot;  and  he  shot  me  one  last  glance.  It  made  me  hopeful.  I  eased  away  from  that  end  of  the  cage,  moved  toward  the  scene  of  peace  beyond  the  far  wall.  The  sky  is  chalky-blue  today,  blue  like  the  brow  of  the  blue-front  Amazon  who  was  on  the  perch  next  to  me  for  about  a  week  at  the  store.  She  was  very  sweet,  but  I  watched  her  carefully  for  a  day  or  two  when  she  first  came  in.  And  it  wasn't  long  before  she  nuzzled  up  to  a  cockatoo  named  Willy,  and  I  knew  she'd  break  my  heart.  But  her  color  now,  in  the  sky,  is  sweet,  really.  I  left  all  those  feelings  be-  hind  me  when  my  wife  showed  up.  I  am  a  faithful  man,  for  all  my  suspicions.  Too  faithful,  maybe.  I  am  ready  togive  too  much,  and  maybe  that's  the  problem.  The  whooping  began  down  the  hall,  and  I  focussed  on  a  tree  out  there.  A  crow  flapped  down,  his  mouth  open,  his  throat  throbbing,  though  I  could  not  hear  his  sound.  I  was  feeling  very  odd.  At  least  I'd  made  my  point  to  the  guy  in  the  other  room.  &quot;Pretty  bird,&quot;  I  said,  referring  to  myself.  She  called  me  &quot;pretty  bird,&quot;  and  I  believed  her  and  I  told  my-  self  again,  &quot;Pretty  bird.&quot;  But  then  something  new  happened,  something  very  difficult  for  me.  She  ap-  peared  in  the  den  naked.  I  have  not  seen  her  naked  since  I  fell  from  the  tree  and  had  no  wings  to  fly.  She  always  had  a  certain  tidiness  in  things.  She  was  naked  in  the  bedroom,  clothed  in  the  den.  But  now  she  appears  from  the  hallway,  and  T  look  at  her,  and  she  is  still  slim  and  she  is  beautiful,  I  think-at  least  Iclearly  re-  member  that  as  her  husband  I  found  her  beautiful  in  this  state.  Now,  though,  she  seems  too  naked.  Plucked.  I  findthat  a  sad  thing.  I  am  sorry  for  her,  and  she  goes  by  me  and  she  disappears  into  the  kitchen.  I  want  to  pluck  some  of  my  own  feath-  ers,  the  feathers  from  my  chest,  and  give  them  to  her.  I  love  her  more  in  that  mo-  ment,  seeing  her  terrible  nakedness,  than  I  ever  have  before.  ND  since  I've  had  success  in  the  last  few  minutes  with  words,  when  she  comes  back  I  am  moved  to  speak.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  say,  meaning,  You  are  still  connected  to  me,  I  still  want  only  you.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  say  again.  Please  listen  to  this  tiny  heart  that  beats  fast  at  all  times  for  you.  And  she  does  indeed  stop,  and  she  comes  to  me  and  bends  to  me.  &quot;Pretty  bird,&quot;  I  say,  and  I  am  saying,  You  are  beautiful,  my  wife,  and  your  beauty  cries  out  for  protection.  &quot;Pretty.&quot;  I  want  to  cover  you  with  my  own  nakedness.  &quot;Bad  bird,&quot;  I  say.  If  there  are  others  in  your  life,  even  in  your  mind,  then  there  is  nothing  I  can  do.  &quot;Bad.&quot;  Your  naked-  ness  is  touched  from  inside  by  the  oth-  ers.  &quot;Open,&quot;  I  say.  How  can  we  be  whole  together  if  you  are  not  empty  in  the  place  that  I  am  to  fill?  She  smiles  at  this,  and  she  opens  the  door  to  my  cage.  &quot;Up,&quot;  I  say,  meaning,  Is  there  no  place  for  me  in  this  world  where  I  can  be  free  of  this  terrible  sense  of  others?  She  reaches  in  now  and  offers  her  hand,  and  I  climb  onto  it  and  I  tremble  and  she  says,  &quot;Poor  baby.&quot;  &quot;Poor  baby,&quot;  Isay.  You  have  yearned  for  wholeness,  too,  and  somehow  I  failed  you.  I  was  not  enough.  &quot;Bad  bird,&quot;  Isay.  I'm  sorry.  And  then  the  cracker  comes  around  the  corner.  He  wears  only  his  rattlesnake  boots.  I  take  one  look  at  his  miserable,  featherless  body  and  shake  my  head.  We  keep  our  sexual  parts  hidden,  we  parrots,  and  this  man  is  a  pitiful  sight.  &quot;Peanut,&quot;  I  say.  I  presume  that  my  wife  simply  has  not  noticed.  But  that's  foolish,  of  course.  This  is,  in  fact,  what  she  wants.  Not  me.  And  she  scrapes  me  off  her  hand  onto  the  open  cage  door  and  she  turns  her  naked  back  to  me  and  embraces  this  man,  and  they  laugh  and  stagger  in  their  embrace  around  the  corner.  For  a  moment,  I  still  think  I've  been  eloquent.  What  I've  said  only  needs  re-  peating  for  it  to  have  its  transforming  effect.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Hello.  Pretty  bird.  Pretty.  Bad  bird.  Bad.  Open.  Up.  Poor  baby.  Bad  bird.&quot;  And  I  am  beginning  to  hear  myself  as  I  really  sound  to  her.  &quot;Peanut.&quot;  I  can  never  say  what  is  in  my  heart  toher.  Never.  I  stand  on  my  cage  door  now,  and  my  wings  stir.  I  look  at  the  corner  to  the  hall-  way,  and  down  at  the  end  the  whooping  has  begun  again.  I  can  fly  there  and  think  of  things  to  do  about  all  this.  But  I  do  not.  I  turn  instead,  and  I  look  at  the  trees  moving  just  beyond  the  other  end  of  the  room.  I  look  at  the  sky  the  color  of  the  brow  of  a  blue-front  Amazon.  A  shadow  of  birds  spanks  across  the  lawn.  And  I  spread  my  wings.  I  will  fly  now.  Even  though  I  know  there  is  something  between  me  and  that  place  where  I  can  be  free  of  all  these  feelings,  I  will  fly.  I  will  throw  myself  there  again  and  again.  Pretty  bird.  Bad  bird.  Good  night.   