 SCARVES,  BEADS,  SANDALS  FTER  three  years,  Mathilde  and  Theo  Schurz  were  divorced,  without  a  mean  thought,  and  even  Theo  says  she  is  better  off  now,  married  to  Alain  Poix.  (Or  &quot;Poids.&quot;  Or  &quot;Poisse.&quot;  Theo  may  be  speaking  the  truth  when  he  says  he  can't  keep  in  mind  every  facet  of  the  essential  Alain.)  Mathilde  moved  in  with  Alain  six  months  before  the  wedding,  in  order  to  become  acquainted  with  domestic  tedium  and  annoying  habits,  should  they  occur,  and  so  avoid  making  the  same  mistake  (marriage  piled  onto  infatuation)  twice.  They  rented,  and  are  now  gradually  buying,  a  two-bedroom  place  on  Rue  Saint-Didier,  in  the  Sixteenth  Arrondissement.  In  every  conceivable  way  it  is  distant  from  the  dispiriting  south  fringe  of  Mont-  parnasse,  where  Theo  continues  to  reside,  close  to  several  of  the  city's  grimmest  hospitals,  and  always  under  some  threat  or  other-eviction,  plagues  of  mice,  demolition  of  the  whole  cul-de-sac  of  sagging  one-story  studios.  If  Theo  had  been  attracted  by  her  &quot;physical  aspect&quot;-  Mathilde's  new,  severe  term  for  beauty-  Alain  accepts  her  as  a  concerned  and  contributing  partner,  intellectually  and  spiritually.  This  is  not  her  conclusion.  It  is  her  verdict.  Theo  wonders  about  &quot;spiritually.&quot;  It  sounds  to  him  like  a  moist  west  wind,  ready  to  veer  at  any  minute,  with  soft  al-  ternations  of  sun  and  rain.  Whatever  Mathilde  means,  or  wants  to  mean,  even  the  idea  of  the  partnership  should  keep  her  fully  occupied.  Nevertheless,  she  finds  time  to  drive  across  [REDACTED],  nearly  every  Saturday  afternoon,  to  see  how  Theo  is  getting  along  without  her.  (Where  is  Alain?  In  close  liaison  with  a  computer,  she  says.)  She  brings  Theo  flowering  shrubs  from  the  market  on  lle  de  la  Cité,  still  hoping  to  enliven  the  blighted  yard  next  to  the  studio,  and  food  in  covered  dishes-whole,  delicious     BY  MAVIS  GALLANT  meals,  not  Poix  leftovers-and  fresh  news  about  Alain.  Recently,  Alain  was  moved  to  a  new  office-a  room  divided  in  two,  really,  but  on  the  same  floor  as  the  Minister  and  with  part  of  an  eighteenth-century  fresco  overhead.  If  Alain  looks  straight  up,  perhaps  to  ease  a  cramp  in  his  neck,  he  can  take  in  Apollo-just  Apollo's  head-watching  Daphne  turn  into  a  laurel  tree.  Owing  to  the  perspective  of  the  work,  Alain  has  the  entire  Daphne-  roots,  bark,  and  branches,  and  her  small  pink  Enlightenment  face  peering  through  leaves.  (The  person  next  door  has  inher-  ited  Apollo's  torso,  dressed  in  Roman  armor,  with  ashort  white  skirt,  and  his  legs  and  feet.)  To  Theo,  from  whom  women  manage  to  drift  away,  the  situa-  tion  might  seem  another  connubial  bad  dream,  but  Alain  interprets  it  as  an  al-  legory  of  free  feminine  choice.  If  he  weren't  so  pressed  with  other  work,  he  might  write  something  along  that  line:  an  essay  of  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  pages,  published  between  soft  white  covers  and  containing  almost  as  many  colored  illustrations  as  there  are  pages  of  print;  something  a  reader  can  absorb  during  a  weekend  and  still  attend  to  the  perennial  border  on  Sunday  afternoon.  He  envisions  (so  does  Mathilde)  a  display  on  the  &quot;recent  nonfiction&quot;  table  in  a  Saint-Germain-des-Prés  bookshop,  between  stacks  of  something  new  about  waste  disposal  and  something  new  about  Jung.  Instead  of  writing  the  essay,  Alain  applies  his  trained  mind  and  exacting  higher  education  to  shoring  up  French  values  against  the  Anglo-Saxon  mud  slide.  On  this  particular  Saturday,  he  is  trying  to  batter  into  proper  French  one  more  untranslatable  expression:  &quot;airbag.&quot;  It  was  on  television  again  the  other  day,  this  time  spoken  by  a  woman  showing  black-and-white  industrial  drawings.  Alain  would  rather  take  the  field  against  terms  that  have  greater  resonance,  are  more  blatantly  English,  such  as  &quot;shal-  low&quot;  and  &quot;bully&quot;  and  &quot;wishful  thinking,&quot;  but  no  one,  so  far,  has  ever  tried  to  use  them  in  a  commercial.  So  Mathilde  explains  to  Theo  as  she  sorts  his  laundry,  starts  the  machine,  puts  clean  sheets  on  the  bed.  She  ad-  mires  Theo,  as  an  artist-it  is  what  drew  her  to  him  in  the  first  place-but  since  becoming  Mme.  Poix  she  has  tended  to  see  him  as  unemployable.  At  an  age  when  Theo  was  still  carrying  a  portfolio  of  drawings  up  and  down  and  around  Rue  de  Seine,  looking  for  a  small  but  adventurous  gallery  to  take  him  in,  Alain  has  established  a  position  in  the  cultural  apparat.  It  may  even  survive  the  next  elections:  he  is  too  valuable  an  asset  to  be  swept  out  and  told  to  find  a  job  in  the  private  sector.  Actually,  the  private  sector  could  ask  nothing  better.  Every-  one  wants  Alain.  Publishers  want  him.  Foreign  universities  want  him.  Even  [REDACTED]  is  waiting,  in  spite  of  the  un-  compromising  things  he  has  said  about  the  hegemony  and  how  it  encourages  well-bred  Europeans  to  eat  pizza  slices  in  the  street.  Theo  has  never  heard  of  anybody  with  symbolic  imagery,  or  even  half  an  image,  on  his  office  ceiling  outlasting  a  change  of  government.  The  queue  for  space  of  that  kind  consists  of  one  rav-  enous  human  resource  after  the  other,  pushing  hard.  As  for  the  private  sector,  its  cultural  subdivisions  are  hard  up  for  breathing  room,  in  the  dark,  stalled  be-  tween  floors.  Alain  requires  the  clean  horizons  and  rich  oxygen  flow  of  the  governing  class.  Theo  says  none  of  this.  He  removes  foil  from  bowls  and  dishes,  to  see  what  Mathilde  wants  him  to  have  for  dinner.  What  can  a  Theo  understand  about  an  Alain?  Theo  never  votes.  He  hasnever  registered,  he  forgets  the  right  date.  All  at  once  the  campaign  is  over.  The  next  day  familiar  faces,  foxy  or  be-  nign,  return  to  the  news,  described  as  untested  but  eager  to  learn.  Elections  are  held  in  spring,  perhaps  to  make  one  be-  lieve  in  growth,  renewal.  One  rainy  morning  in  May,  sooner  or  later,  Alain  will  have  to  stack  his  personal  files,  give  &amp;  up  Apollo  and  Daphne,  cross  a  Minis-  8s  try  courtyard  on  the  first  lap  of  a  march  $  €  into  the  private  sector.  Theo  sees  him  2  stepping  along  cautiously,  avoiding  the  worst  of  the  puddles.  Alain  can  always  teach,  Theo  tells  himself.  It  is  what  people  say  about  aides  and  assistants  they  happen  to  know,  as  the  astonish-  ing  results  unfold  on  the  screen.  LAIN  knows  Theo,  of  course.  Among  his  mixed  feelings,  Alain  has  no  trouble  finding  the  esteem  due  to  a  cul-  tural  bulwark:  Theo  and  his  work  have  entered  the  enclosed  space  known  as  &quot;time-honored.&quot;  Alain  even  knows  about  the  Poids  and  Poisse  business,  but  does  not  hold  it  against  Theo;  accord-  ing  to  Mathilde,  one  no  longer  canbe  sure  when  he  is  trying  to  show  he  has  a  sense  of  humor  or  when  he  is  losing  brain  cells.  He  was  at  the  wedding,  cor-  rectly  dressed,  suit,  collar,  and  tie,  look-  ing  distinguished-something  like  Braque  at  the  age  of  fifty,  Alain  said,  but  thinner,  taller,  blue-eyed,  lighter  hair,  finer  profile.  By  then  they  were  at  the  reception,  drinking  champagne  under  a  white  marquee,  wishing  they  could  sit  down.  It  was  costing  Mathilde's  father  the  earth-the  venue  was  a  restaurant  in  the  Bois  de  Boulogne-but  he  was  so  thankful  to  be  rid  of  Theo  as  a  son-in-  law  that  he  would  have  hired  Versailles,  if  one  could.  The  slow,  winding  currents  of  the  gathering  had  brought  Theo,  Alain,  and  Mathilde  together.  Theo  with  one  fin-  ger  pushed  back  a  strayed  lock  of  her  hair;  it  was  reddish  gold,  the  shade  of  a  persimmon.  Perhaps  he  was  measuring  his  loss  and  might  even,  at  last,  say  something  embarrassing  and  true.  Actu-  ally,  he  was  saying  that  Alain's  descrip-  tion-blue-eyed,  etc.-sounded  more  like  Max  Ernst.  Alain  backtracked,  said  it  was  Balthus  he'd  had  in  mind.  Mathilde,  though  not  Alain,  was  still  troubled  by  Theo's  wedding  gift,  a  botched  painting  he  had  been  tinkering  with  for  years.  She  had  been  Mme.  Poix  for  a  few  hours,  but  still  felt  responsible  for  Theo's  gaffes  and  imperfections.  When  he  did  not  reply  at  once,  she  said  she  hoped  he  did  not  object  to  being  told  he  was  like  Balthus.  Balthus  was  the  best-looking  artist  of  the  past  hundred  years,  with  the  exception  of  Picasso.  Alain  wonderedwhat  Picasso  had  to  do  with  the  conversation.  Theo  looked  nothing  like  him:  he  came  from  Alsace.  He,  Alain,  had  never  understood  the  way  women  preferred  male  genius  incar-  nated  asshort,  dark,  and  square-shaped.  &quot;Like  Celtic  gnomes,&quot;  said  Theo,  just  to  fill  in.  Mathilde  saw  the  roses  in  the  res-  taurant  gardenthrough  a  blur  which  was  not  the  mist  of  happiness.  Alain  had  be-  littled  her,  on  their  wedding  day,  in  the  presence  of  her  first  husband.  Her  first  husband  had  implied  she  was  attracted  to  gnomes.  She  let  her  head  droop.  Her  hair  slid  over  her  cheeks,  but  Theo,  this  time,  left  it  alone.  Both  men  looked  elsewhere-Alain  because  tears  were  something  new,  Theo  out  of  habit.  The  Minister  stood  close  by,  showing  admi-  rable  elegance  of  manner-not  haughty,  not  familiar;  careful,  kind,  like  the  Arch-  bishop  of  [REDACTED]  at  a  humble  sort  of  fu-  neral,  Theo  said,  thinking  to  cheer  up  Mathilde.  Luckily,  no  one  overheard.  Her  mood  was  beginning  to  draw  atten-  tion.  Many  years  before,  around  the  time  of  the  Algerian  War,  a  relative  of  Alain's  mother  had  married  an  aunt  of  the  Minister.  The  outer  rims  of  the  fam-  ily  circles  had  quite  definitely  over-  lapped.  It  was  thereasonthe  Minister  had  come  to  the  reception  and  why  he  had  stayed,  so  far,  more  than  half  an  hour.  Mathilde  was  right;  Theo  must  be  losing  brain  cells  at  a  brisk  rate  now.  First  Celtic  gnomes,  then  the  Arch-  bishop  of  [REDACTED];  and,  of  course,  the  tact-  less,  stingy,  offensive  gift.  Alain  decided  to  smile,  extending  greetings  to  every-  one.  He  was  attempting  to  say,  I  am  en-  tirely  happy  on  this  significant  June  day.  He  was  happy,  but  not  entirely.  Perhaps  Mathilde  was  recalling  her  three  years  with  Theo  and  telling  herself  nothing  lasts.  He  wished  Theo  would  do  some-  thing  considerate,  such  as  disappear.  A  cluster  of  transparent  molecules,  the  physical  remainder  of  the  artist  T.  Schurz,  would  dance  in  the  sun,  above  the  roses.  Theo  need  not  be  dead-just  gone.  &quot;Do  you  remember,  Theo,  the  day  we  got  married,&quot;  said  Mathilde,  looking  up  at  the  wrong  man,  by  accident  inter-  cepting  the  smile  Alain  was  using  to  re-  assure  the  Minister  and  the  others.  &quot;Ev-  erybody  kept  saying  we  had  made  a  mistake.  We  decided  to  find  out  how  biga  mistake  it  was,  so  in  the  evening  we  went  to  Montmartre  and  had  our  palms  read.  Theo  was  told  he  could  have  beenan  artist  but  was  probably  a  mer-  chant  seaman.  His  left  hand  was  full  of  little  shipwrecks.&quot;  She  may  have  been  241  waiting  for  Alain  to  ask,  &quot;What  about  you?  What  did  your  hand  say?&quot;  In  fact,  he  was  thinking  just  about  his  own.  In  both  palms  he  had  lines  that  might  be  neat  little  roads,  straight  or  curved,  and  a  couple  of  spidery  stars.  A  first,  Theo  had  said  he  would  give  them  a  painting.  Waiting,  they  kept  a  whole  wall  bare.  Alain  supposed  it  would  be  one  of  the  great  recent  works;  Mathilde  thought  she  knew  bet-  ter.  Either  Alain  had  forgotten  about  having  carried  off  the  artist's  wife  or  he  had  decided  it  didn't  matter  to  Theo.  That  aside,  Theo  and  Theo's  dealer  were  tight  as  straitjackets  about  his  work.  Mathilde  owned  nothing,  not  even  a  crumpled  sketch  saved  from  a  dustbin.  The  dealer  had  taken  much  of  the  earlier  work  off  the  market,  which  did  not  mean  Theo  was  allowed  to  give  any  away.  He  burned  most  of  his  dis-  cards  and  kept  just  a  few  unsalable  things  in  a  shed.  Speaking  of  his  wed-  ding  gift,  Theo  said  the  word  &quot;painting&quot;  just  once  and  never  again:  hementioned  some  engravings-falling  rain  or  falling  snow  -or  else  a  plain  white  tile  he  could  dedicate  and  sign.  Mathilde  made  a  ref-  erence  to  the  empty  wall.  A  larger  work,  even  unfinished,  even  slightly  below  Theo's  dealer's  exacting  standards,  would  remind  Mathilde  of  Theo  for  the  rest  of  her  life.  Five  days  later,  the  concierge  at  Rue  Saint-Didier  took  possession  of  a  large  oil  study  of  a  nude  with  red  hair-poppy  red,  not  like  Mathilde's-prone  on  a  bed,  her  face  concealed  in  pillows.  Mathilde  recognized  the  studio,  as  it  had  been  before  she  moved  in  and  cleaned  it  up.  She  remembered  the  two  reproductions,  torn  out  of  books  or  cata-  logues,  askew  on  the  wall.  One  showed  a  pair  of  Etruscan  figures,  dancing  face  to  face,  the  other  a  hermit  in  aland-  scape.  When  the  bed  became  half  Mathilde's,  she  took  them  down.  She  had  wondered  if  Theo  would  mind,  but  he  never  noticed-at  any  rate,  never  opened  an  inquiry.  &quot;Are  you  sure  this  thing  is  a  Schurz?&quot;  said  Alain.  Nothing  else  bothered  him.  He  wondered,  at  first,  if  Theo  had  found  the  picture  at  a  junk  sale  andhad  signed  it  as  a  joke.  The  true  gift,  the  one  they  were  to  cherish  and  display,  would  come  along  later,  all  the  more  to  be  ad-  mired  because  of  the  scare.  But  Theo   never  invented  jokes;  he  blundered  into  them.  &quot;I  am  not  that  woman,&quot;  Mathilde  said.  Of  course  not.  Alain  had  never  supposed  she  was.  There  was  the  crude  red  of  the  hair,  the  large  backside,  the  dirty  feet,  and  then  the  date-&quot;1979&quot;  firm  and  black  and  in  the  usual  place,  to  the  right  of  &quot;T.  Schurz.&quot;  At  that  time,  Mathilde  was  still  reading  translations  of  Soviet  poetry,  in  love  with  a  teacher  of  Russian  at  her  lycée,  andhad  never  heard  of  &quot;T.  Schurz.&quot;  In  saying  this,  Alain  showed  he  remembered  the  story  of  her  life.  If  she'd  had  a  reason  to  for-  give  him,  about  anything,  she  would  have  absolved  him  on  the  spot;  then  he  spoiled  the  moment  by  declaringthat  it  made  no  difference.  The  model  was  not  meant  to  be  anyone  in  particular.  Mathilde  thought  of  Emma,  Theo's  first  long-term  companion  (twelve  years),  but  by  &quot;79  Emma  must  have  been  back  in  Alsace,  writing  cookery  books  with  a  woman  friend.  Julita  (six  years)  fit  thedate  but  had  worn  a  thick  yellow  braid  down  her  back.  She  was  famous  for  having  tried  tostrangle  Theo,  but  her  hands  were  too  small-she  could  not  get  a  grip.  After  the  throttling  inci-  dent,  which  had  taken  place  in  a  restau-  rant,  Julita  had  packed  a  few  things,  most  of  them  Theo's,  and  moved  to  the  north  end  of  [REDACTED],  where  she  would  not  run  into  him.  Emma  left  Theo  a  micro-  wave  oven,  Julita  a  cast-iron  cat,  stand-  ing  on  its  hind  legs,  holding  a  tray.  She  had  stolen  it  from  a  stand  at  the  flea  market,  Theo  told  Mathilde,  but  the  story  sounded  unlikely:  the  cat  was  heavy  to  lift,  let  alone  be  fetched  across  a  distance.  T  wo  people  would  have  been  needed;  perhaps  one  had  been  Theo.  Sometimes,  even  now,  some  old  friend  from  the  Julita  era  tells  Theo  that  Julita  is  ill  or  hard  up  and  that  he  ought  to  help  her  out.  Theo  will  say  he  doesn't  know  where  she  is  or  else,  yes,  he  will  do  it  tomorrow.  She  is  like  art  taken  off  the  market  now,  neither  here  nor  there.  The  cat  isstill  in  the  yard,  rising  out  of  broken  flowerpots,  empty  bottles.  Julita  had  told  Theo  it  was  the  one  cat  that  would  never  run  away.  She  hung  its  neck  with  some  amber  beads  Emma  had  overlooked  in  her  flight,  then  pocketed  the  amber  and  left  him  the  naked  cat.  When  Mathilde  was  in  love  with  Theo  and  jealous  of  women  she  had  never  met,  she  used  to  go  to  an  Indian  shop,  in  Montparnasse,  where  first  Emma,  then  Julita  had  bought  their  flat  sandals  and  white  embroidered  shifts  and  long  gauzy  skirts,  black  and  pink  and  indigo.  She  imagined  what  it  must  have  been  like  to  live,  dress,  go  to  par-  ties,  quarrel,  and  make  up  with  Theo  in  the  seventies.  Emma  brushed  her  brown  hair  upside  down,  to  create  a  great  drift,  ing  mane.  A  woman  in  the  Indian  store  did  Julita's  braid,just  because  she  liked  Julita.  Mathilde  bought  a  few  things,  skirts  and  sandals,  but  never  wore  them.  They  made  her  look  alien,  bedraggled,  like  the  Romanian  Gypsy  women  beg-  ging  for  coins  along  Rue  de  Rennes.  She  did  not  want  to  steal  from  a  market  or  fight  with  Theo  in  bistros.  She  belonged  to  a  generation  of  women  who  showed  a  lot  of  leg  and  kept  life  smooth,  tight-  fitting,  close-woven.  Theo  was  right:  she  was  better  off  with  Alain.  Still,  she  had  the  right  to  know  something  about  the  woman  she  had  been  offered  as  a  gift.  It  was  no  good  asking  directly;  Theo  might  say  it  was  a  journalist  who  came  to  tape  his  mem-  oirs  orthewife  of  a  Lutheran  dignitary  or  one  of  his  nieces  from  Alsace.  In-  stead,  she  asked  him  to  speak  to  Alain;  out  of  aesthetic  curiosity,  she  said,  Alain  acquired  the  facts  of  art.  Theo  often  did  whatever  a  woman  asked,  unless  it  was  important.  Clearly,  this  was  not.  Alain  took  the  call  in  his  office;  at  that  $$  &amp;  time,  he  still  had  a  cubicle  [$@  #$  with  a  bricked-up  win-  s  dow.  Nobody  recalled  who  had  ordered  the  bricks  or  how  long  ago.  He  worked  by  the  light  of  a  neon  fixture  that  flickered  con-  tinually  and  made  his  eyes  water.  Summoned  by  an  aide  to  the  Minister,  on  propitious  afternoons  by  the  Minister  himself  (such  summonses  were  more  and  more  frequent),  he  de-  scended  two  flights,  using  the  staircase  in  order  to  avoid  a  giddy  change  from  neon  tube  to  the  steadier  glow  of  a  chandelier.  He  brought  with  him  only  a  modest  amount  of  paperwork.  He  was  expected  to  store  everything  in  his  head.  Theo  told  Alain  straight  out  that  he  had  used  Julita  for  the  pose.  She  slept  much  of  the  day  and  for  that  reason  made  an  excellent  model:  was  never  tired,  never  hungry,  never  restless,  never  had  to  break  off  for  a  cigarette.  The  pic-  z  %  x  noms  eo  rre  o  =  yz  aes  ste     ture  had  not  worked  out  and  he  had  set  it  aside.  Recently  he  had  looked  at  it  again  and  decided  to  alter  Julita  from  the  neck  up.  Alain  thought  he  had  just  been  told  something  of  consequence;  he  wanted  to  exchange  revelations,  let  Theo  know  he  had  not  enticed  Mathilde  away  but  had  merely  opened  the  net  into  which  she  could  jump.  She  had  grabbed  Theo  in  her  flight,  perhaps  to  break  the  fall.  But  Alain  held  still;  it  would  be  un-  seemly  to  discuss  Mathilde.  Theo  was  simply  there,  like  an  older  relative  who  has  to  be  considered  and  mollified,  though  no  one  knows  why.  There  was  something  flattering  abouthaving  been  offered  an  unwanted  and  unnecessary  explanation;  few  artists  would  have  bothered  to  make  one.  It  was  as  though  Theo  had  decided  to  take  Alain  seri-  ously.  Alain  thanked  him.  Unfortunately,  the  clarification  had  made  the  painting  even  less  interesting  than  it  looked.  Until  then,  it  had  been  a  dud  Schurzbut  an  honest  vision.  The  subject,  a  woman,  entirely  womanly,  had  been  transfigured  by  Schurz's  reaction-  ary  visual  fallacy  (though  honest,  if  one  accepted  the  way  his  mind  worked)  into  a  hefty  platitude;  still,  it  was  art.  Now,  endowed  with  a  name  and,  why  not,  an  address,  a  telephone  number,  a  social-  security  number,  and  a  personal  history,  Theo's  universal  state-  ment  dwindled  toa  footnote  about  Julita-  second  long-term  com-  panion  of  T.  Schurz,  first  husband  of  Mathilde,  future  first  wife  of  Alain  Poix.  A  white  tile  with  a  date  and  a  signature  would  have  shown  more  tact  and  common  sense.  All  this  Alain  saidto  Mathilde  that  night,  as  they  ate  their  dinner  next  to  the  empty  wall.  Mathilde  said  she  was  cer-  tain  Theo  had  gone  to  considerable  trouble  to  choose  something  he  believed  they  would  understand  and  appreciate  and  that  would  enhance  their  marriage.  It  was  one  of  her  first  lies  to  Alain:  Theo  had  gone  out  to  the  shed  where  he  kept  his  shortfalls  and  made  a  final  decision  about  a  dead  loss.  Perhaps  he  guessed  they  would  never  hang  it  and  so  dam-  age  his  reputation,  although  as  a  rule  he  never  imagined  future  behavior  more  than  a  few  minutes  away.  Years  ago,  in  a  bistro  on  Rue  Stanislas,  he  had   drawn  a  portrait  of  Julita  on  the  paper  tablecloth,  signed  and  dated  it,  torn  it  off,  even  made  the  edges  neat.  It  was  ac-  tually  in  her  hands  when  he  snatched  it  back,  ripped  it  to  shreds,  and  set  the  shreds  on  fire  in  an  ashtray.  It  was  then  that  Julita  had  tried  to  get  him  by  the  throat.  ESTERDAY,  Friday,  an  April  day,  Theo  was  awakened  by  a  hard  beam  of  light  trained  on  his  face.  There  was  a  fainter  light  at  the  open  door,  where  the  stranger  had  entered  easily.  The  time  must  have  been  around  five  o'clock.  Theo  could  make  out  an  out-  line,  drawn  in  gray  chalk:  leather  jacket,  close-cropped  head.  (Foreign  Legion  deserter?  Escaped  prisoner?  Neo-Nazi?  Drugs?)  He  spoke  a  coarse,  neutral,  ur-  ban  French-the  old  [REDACTED]  accent  was  dying  out-and  told  Theo  that  if  he  tried  to  move  or  call  he,  the  intruder,  might  hurt  him.  He  did  not  say  how.  They  all  watch  the  same  programs,  Theo  told  himself.  He  is  young  and  he  repeats  what  he  has  seen  and  heard.  Theo  had  no  intention  of  moving  and  there  was  no  one  to  call.  His  thoughts  were  directed  to  the  privy,  in  the  yard.  He  hoped  the  young  man  would  not  take  too  long  to  discover  there  was  nothing  to  steal,  except  a  small  amount  of  cash.  He  would  have  told  him  where  to  find  it,  but  that  might  be  classed  as  calling  out.  His  checkbook  was  in  a  drawer  of  Emma's  old  desk,  his  bank  card  behind  the  snapshot  of  Mathilde,  propped  on  the  shelf  above  the  sink.  The  checkbook  was  no  good  to  the  stranger,  unless  he  forced  Theo  to  sign  all  the  checks.  Theo  heard  him  scuffing  about,  heard  a  drawer  being  pulled.  He  shut  his  eyes,  opened  them  to  see  the  face  bent  over  him,  the  intent  and  watchful  expression,  like  a  lover's,  and  the  raised  arm  and  the  flashlight  (prob-  ably)  wrapped  in  one  of  Mathilde's  blue-  and-white  tea  towels.  He  came  to  in  full  daylight.  His  nose  had  bled  all  over  the  pillows,  and  the  mattress  was  sodden.  He  got  up  and  walked  quite  steadily,  barefoot,  over  the  stones  and  gravel  of  the  yard;  returning  to  the  studio,  he  found  some  of  yes-  terday's  coffee  still  in  the  pot.  He  heated  it  up  in  a  saucepan,  poured  in  milk,  drank,  and  kept  it  down.  Only  when  that  was  done  did  he  look  in  a  mirror.  He  could  hide  his  blackened  eyes  be-  hind  sunglasses  but  not  the  raw  bruise  on  his  forehead  or  his  swollen  nose.  He dragged  the  mattress  outside  and  spread  it  in  the  cold  April  sunlight.  By  four  o'clock,  Mathilde's  announced  arrival  time-for  it  seemed  to  him  today  could  be  Saturday-the  place  was  pretty  well  cleaned  up,  mattress  back  on  the  bed,  soiled  bedclothes  rolled  up,  pushed  in  a  corner.  He  found  a  banquet-size  table-  cloth,  probably  something  of  Emma's,  and  drew  it  over  the  mattress.  Only  his  cash  had  vanished;  the  check-  book  and  bank  card  lay  on  the  floor.  He  had  been  attacked,  for  no  reason,  by  a  man  he  had  never  seen  before  and  would  be  unable  to  recognize:  his  face  had  been  neutral,  like  his  voice.  Theo  turned  on  the  radio  and,  from  something  said,  discovered  this  was  still  Friday,  the  day  before  Mathilde's  ha-  bitual  visiting  day.  He  had  expected  her  to  make  the  mattress  dry  in  some  magi-  cal  and  efficient,  Mathilde-like  way.  He  kept  in  the  shed  a  couple  of  sleeping  bags,  for  rare  nights  when  the  tempera-  ture  fell  below  freezing.  He  got  one  of  them  out,  gave  it  ashake,  and  spread  it  on  top  of  the  tablecloth.  It  would  have  to  do  for  that  night.  Today,  Saturday,  Mathilde  brought  a  meal  packed  in  a  black-and-white  bag  from  Fauchon:  cooked  asparagus,  with  the  lemon-and-oil  sauce  in  a  jar,  cold  roast  lamb,  and  agratin  of  courgettes  and  tomatoes-all  he  has  to  do  is  turn  on  Emma's  microwave-a  Camembert,  a  round  loaf  of  that  moist  and  slightly  sour  bread,  from  the  place  on  Rue  du  Cherche-Midi,  which  reminds  Schurz  of  the  bread  of  his  childhood,  a  carton  of  thick  cream,  and  a  bowl  of  strawher-  ries,  washed  and  hulled.  It  is  too  early  for  French  strawberries.  These  are  from  537061696e,  picked  green,  shipped  palely  pink,  almost  as  hard  as  radishes,  but  they  remind  one  that  it  is  spring.  Schurz  barely  notices  seasons.  He  works  in-  doors.  If  rain  happens  to  drench  the  yard  when  he  goes  outside  to  the  lavatory,  he  puts  on  the  Alpine  beret  that  was  part  of  his  uniform  when  he  was  eighteen  and  doing  his  military  service.  Mathilde,  moving  out  to  live  with  Alain,  took  with  her  a  picture  of  Theo  from  that  period,  wearing  the  beret  and  the  thick  laced-up  boots  and  carrying  the  heavy  skis  that  were  standard  issue.  He  skied  and  shot  a  rifle  for  eighteen  months,  even  thought  he  might  have  made  it  a  per-  manent  career,  if  that  was  all  there  was     to  the  Army.  No  one  had  yet  fallen  in  love  with  him,  except  perhaps  his  moth-  er.  His  life  was  simple  then,  has  grown  simpler  now.  The  seasons  mean  noth-  ing,  except  that  green  strawberries  are  followed  by  red.  Weather  means  cross-  ingthe  yard  bareheaded  or  covered  up.  Mathilde  has  noticed  she  is  starting  to  think  of  him  as  &quot;Schurz.&quot;  It  is  what  his  old  friends  call  Theo.  This  after-  noon,  she  had  found  him  looking  particularly  Schurz-  like,  sitting  on  a  chair  he  had  dragged  outside,  drinking  tea  out  of  a  mug,  with  the  string  _.  of  the  tea  bag  trailing.  He  had  on  an  overcoat  and  the  regi-  mental  beret.  He  didnot  turn  to  the  gate  when  she  opened  it  or  get  up  to  greet  her  or  say  a  word.  Mathilde  had  to  walk  all  round  him  to  see  his  face.  &quot;My  God,  Schurz,  what  happened?&quot;  &quot;I  tripped  and  fell  in  the  dark  and  struck  my  head  on  the  cat.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you'd  get  rid  of  it,&quot;  she  said.  She  took  the  mug  from  his  hands  and  went  inside,  to  unpack  his  dinner  and  make  fresh  tea.  The  beret,  having  concealed  none  of  the  damage,  was  use-  less  now.  He  removed  it  and  hung  it  rakishly  on  the  cat,  on  one  ear.  Mathilde  returned  with,  first,  a  small  folding  gar-  den  table  (her  legacy),  then  with  a  tray  and  teacups  and  a  teapot  and  a  plate  of  sliced  gingerbread,  which  she  had  brought  him  the  week  before.  She  poured  his  tea,  put  sugar  in,  stirred  it,  and  handed  him  the  cup.  She  said,  &quot;Theo,  how  long  do  you  think  you  can  go  on  living  here,  alone?&quot;  (It  was  so  pathetic,  she  rehearsed,  for  Alain.  Theo  was  like  a  child;  he  had  made  the  most  absurd  attempt  at  cov-  ering  up  the  damage,  and  instead  of  put-  ting  the  mattress  out  to  dry  he  had  turned  the  wet  side  down  and  slept  on  top  of  it,  in  a  sleeping  bag.  Who  was  that  famous  writer  who  first  showed  signs  of  senility  and  incontinence  on  a  bridge  in  Rome?  I  kept  thinking  of  him.  Schurz  just  sat  there,  like  a  guilty  little  boy.  He  caught  syphilis  when  he  was  young  and  gave  it  to  Emma;  he  said  it  was  from  a  prosti-  tute,  in  Montmartre,  but  I  believe  it  was  a  married  woman,  the  wife  of  the  first  collector  to  start  buying  his  work.  He  can't  stay  there  alone  now.  He  simply  can't.  His  checkbook  and  bank  card  were  lying  next  to  the  trash  bin.  He  must  have  been  trying  to  throw  them  away.) Her  picture  had  been  on  the  floor,  too,  the  one  taken  the  day  she  married  Theo.  Mathilde  has  asmall  cloud  of  red-gold  hair  and  wears  a  short  white  dress  and  a  jacket  of  the  eighties,  with  shoulders  so  wide  that  her  head  seems  unnaturally  small,  like  a  little  ball  of  reddish  fluff.  Theo  is  next  to  her,  not  too  close.  He  could  be  a  relative  ora  family  friend  or  even  some  old  crony  who  heard  the  noise  of  the  party  and  de-  cided  to  drop  in.  The  photograph  is  posed  here,  in  the  yard.  One  can  see  a  table  laden  with  bottles,  and  a  cement-  and-stucco  structure-the  privy,  with  the  door  shut,  for  a  change-and  a  cold-  water  tap  and  a  bucket  lying  on  its  side.  You  had  to  fill  the  bucket  and  take  it  in  with  you.  Schurz  never  tried  to  improve  the  place  or  make  it  more  comfortable.  His  reason  was,  still  is,  that  he  might  be  evicted  at  any  time.  Any  month,  any  day,  the  police  and  the  bailiffs  will  ar-  rive.  He  will  be  rushed  off  the  premises,  with  just  the  cast-iron  cat  as  a  relic  of  his  old  life.  &quot;T'll  tell  you  what  happened,&quot;  he  said,  showing  her  his  mess  of  a  face.  &quot;Yester-  day  morning,  while  I  was  still  asleep,  a  man  broke  in,  stole  some  money,and  hit  me  with  something  wrapped  in  a  towel.  It  must  have  been  his  flashlight.&quot;  (Oh,  if  you  had  heard  him!  she  con-  tinued  to  prepare  for  Alain.  A  comic-  strip  story.  The  truth  is  he  is  starting  to  miss  his  footing  and  to  do  himself  dam-  age,  and  he  pees  in  his  sleep,  like  a  baby.  What  kind  of  doctor  do  we  need  for  him?  What  sort  of  specialist?  A  geriatri-  cian?  He's  not  really  old,  but  there's  been  the  syphilis,  and  he  has  always  done  confused  and  crazy  things,  like  giving  us  that  picture,  when  we  really  wanted  a  plain,  pure  tile.)  Schurz  atthis  moment  is  thinking  of  food.  He  would  like  to  be  handed  a  plate  of  pork  rago@t  with  noodles,  swim-  ming  in  gravy;  but  nobody  makes  that  now.  Or  stewed  eels  in  red  wine,  with  the  onions  cooked  soft.  Or  a  cutlet  of  venison,  browned  in  butter  on  both  sides,  with  a  purée  of  chestnuts.  What  he  does  not  want  is  clear  broth  with  a  poached  egg  in  it,  or  any  sort  of  a  salad.  When  he  first  came  to  [REDACTED]  the  cheap-  est  meals  were  the  heartiest.  His  mother  had  said,  &quot;Send  me  [REDACTED]  hat,&quot;  not  meaning  it;  though  perhaps  she  did.  His  money,  when  he  had  any,  went  to  supplies  for  his  work  or  rent  or  things  to  eat.  Only  old  women  wore  hats  now.  There  were  hats  in  store  windows,  dusty  windows,  in  narrow  streets-black  hats,  for  funerals  and  widows.  But  no  widow  under  the  age  of  sixty  ever  bought  one.  Young  women  wore  hats  at  the  end  of  summer,  tilted  straw  things,  that  they  tried  on  just  for  fun.  When  they  took  the  hats  off,  their  hair  would  spring  loose.  The  face,  freed  of  shadow,  took  on  a  different  shape,  seemed  fuller,  unmysterious,  as  bland  as  the  moon.  There  was  a  vogue  for  bright  scarves,  around  the  straw  hats,  around  the  hair,  wound  around  the  neck  along  with  strings  of  bright  beads,  loosely  coiled-  sand-colored  or  coral  or  a  hard  kind  of  blue.  The  beads  cast  colored  reflections  on  the  skin  of  a  throat  or  on  a  scarf  of  a  different  shade,  like  a  bead  diluted  in  water.  Schurz  and  his  friends  ate  cheap  meals  in  flaking  courtyards  and  on  ter-  races  where  the  tables  were  enclosed  in  a  hedge  of  brittle,  unwatered  shrubs.  Late  at  night,  the  girls  and  young  wo-  men  would  suddenly  find  that  every-  thing  they  had  on  was  too  tight.  It  was  the  effect  of  the  warm  end-of-summer  night  and  the  food  and  the  red  wine  and  the  slow  movement  of  the  conversation.  Itslid  without  wavering  from  gossip  to  mean  gossip  to  art  to  life-in-art  to  liv-  ing  without  boundaries.  A  scarf  would  come  uncoiled  and  hangon  the  back  of  a  chair  or  a  twig  of  the  parched  hedge;  as  it  would  hang,  later,  over  the  foot  of  someone's  bed.  Not  often  Schurz's  (not  often  enough),  because  he  lived  in  a  ho-  tel  near  the  Café  Mabillon,  long  before  all  those  places  were  renovated  and  had  elevators  put  in  and  were  given  a  star  in  some  of  the  guidebooks.  A  stiff  fine  had  to  be  paid  by  any  client  caught  with  a  late-night  visitor.  The  police  used  to  patrol  small  hotels  and  knock  on  doors  just  before  morning,  looking  for  French  people  introuble  with  the  law  and  for  foreigners  with  fake  passports  and  no  residence  permits.  When  they  found  an  extra  guest  in  the  room,  usu-  ally  a  frantic  young  woman  trying  to  pull  the  sheet  over  her  face,  the  hotelkeeper  was  fined,  too,  and  the  tenant  thrown  out  a  few  hours  later.  It  was  not  a  ques-  tion  of  sexual  morality  but  just  of  rules.  When  dinner  was  almost  finished,  the  women  would  take  off  their  glass  beads  and  let  them  drop  ina  heap  among  the  ashtrays  and  coffee  cups  and  on  top  of  the  wine  stains  and  scribbled  drawings.  Their  high-heeled  sandals  were  narrow  and  so  tight  that  they  had  to  keep  their  toes  crossed;  and  at  last  they  would  slip  them  off,  unob-  served,  using  first  one  foot,  then  the  other.  Scarfless,  shoeless,  unbound,  de-  livered,  they  waited  for  the  last  wine  bottle  to  be  emptied  and  the  last  of  the  coffee  to  be  drunk  or  spilled  before  they  decided  what  they  specifically  wanted  or  exactly  refused.  This  was  not  like  a  memory  to  Theo  but  like  part  of  the  present  time,  something  that  un-  folded  gradually,  revealing  mysteries  and  satisfactions.  In  the  studio,  behind  him,  Mathilde  was  making  telephone  calls.  He  heard  her  voice  but  not  her  words.  On  a  late  Saturday  afternoon,  she  would  be  re-  cording  her  messages  on  other  people's  machines:  he  supposed  there  must  be  one  or  two  to  doctors,  and  one  for  the  service  that  sends  vans  and  men  to  take  cumbersome  objects  away,  such  as  a  soiled  mattress.  Several  brief  inquiries  must  have  beenneeded  before  she  could  find  Theo  a  hotel  room,  free  tonight,  at  a  price  he  would  accept  and  on  a  street  he  would  tolerate.  The  long  unbroken  monologue  must  have  been  for  Alain,  explaining  that  she  would  be  much  later  than  expected,  and  why.  On  Monday  she  would  take  Theo  to  the  Bon  Marché  department  store  and  make  him  buy  a  mattress,  perhaps  a  whole  new  bed.  Now  here  was  a  memory,  a  brief,  plain  stretch  of  the  past:  love  apart,  she  had  married  him  because  she  wanted  to  be  Mme.  T.  Schurz.  She  would  not  go  on  attending  parties  and  gallery  openings  as  Schurz's  young  friend.  Nobody  knew  whether  she  was  actually  living  with  him  or  writing  something  on  his  work  or  tagging  along  for  the  evening.  She  did  not  have  the  look  of  a  woman  who  would  choose  to  settle  for  a  studio  that  resembled  a  garage  or,  really,  for  Schurz.  It  turned  out  she  could  hardly  wait  to  move  in,  scrape  and  wax  whatever  he  had  in  the  way  of  furniture,  whitewash  the  walls.  She  trained  climbing  plants  over  the  wire  fence  outside,  even  tried  to  grow  lemon  trees  interra-cotta  tubs.  The  tubs  are  still  there.  She  came  toward  him  now,  carrying  the  bag  she  had  packed  so  that  he  would  have  everything  heneeded  at  the  hotel.  &quot;Don't  touch  the  bruise,&quot;  she  said,  gently,  removing  the  hand  full  of  small  shipwrecks.  The  otherthing  she  said  to-  day,  which  he  is  bound  to  recall  later  on,  was  &quot;You  ought  to  start  getting  used  to  the  idea  of  leaving  this  place.  You  know  that  itis  going  to  be  torn  down.&quot;  Well,  itis  true.  At  the  entrance  to  the  doomed  and  decaying  little  colony  there  is  a  poster,  damaged  by  weather  and  vandals,  on  which  one  can  still  see  a  de-  piction  of  the  structure  that  will  cover  the  ruin,  once  it  has  finally  been  brought  down:  a  handsome  biscuit-colored  mul-  tipurpose  urban  complex  comprising  a  library,  a  creche,  a  couple  of  munici-  pal  offices,  a  screening  room  for  pro-  jecting  films  about  Bedouins  or  whales,  a  lounge  where  elderly  people  may  spend  the  whole  day  playing  board  games,  a  theatre  for  amateur  and  pro-  fessional  performances,  and  four  low-  rent  work  units  for  painters,  sculptors,  poets,  musicians,  and  photographers.  (A  waiting  list  of  two  thousand  names  was  closed  some  years  ago.)  It  seems  to  Theo  that  Julita  was  still  around  at  the  time  when  the  poster  was  put  up.  The  proj-  ect  keeps  running  into  snags-aesthetic,  political,  mainly  economic.  One  day  the  poster  will  have  been  his  view  of  the  fu-  ture  for  more  than  a  third  of  his  life.  Mathilde  backed  out  of  the  cul-de-sac,  taking  care  (he  does  not  like  being  driv-  en),  and  she  said,  &quot;Theo,  we  are  near  all  these  hospitals.  If  you  think  you  should  havean  X-ray  at  once,  we  can  go  to  an  emergency  service.  I  can't  decide,  because  I  really  don't  know  how  you  got  hurt.&quot;  &quot;Not  now.&quot;  He  wanted  today  to  wind  down.  Mathilde,  in  her  mind,  seemed  to  have  gone  beyond  dropping  him  at  his  hotel.  He  had  agreed  to  something  on  Rue  Delambre,  behind  the  Coupole  and  the  [REDACTED].  Shewas  on  the  far  side  of  [REDACTED],  with  Alain.  As  she  drove  on,  she  asked  Theo  if  he  could  suggest  suitable  French  for  a  few  English  expressions:  &quot;divided  attention&quot;  and  &quot;hard-driven&quot;  and  &quot;match-  less  perfection,&quot;  the  latter  in  one  word.  &quot;I  hope  no  one  steals  my  Alpine  beret,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  left  it  hanging  on  the  cat.&quot;  Those  were  the  last  words  they  ex-  changed  today.  It  is  how  they  said  goodbye.