 MARRYING  DAMIAN  'M  going  to  mar-  ry  Damian,&quot;  Jo-  anna  said.  Claire  wasn't  paying  attention.  She  smiled  and  nodded,  intent  on  unravelling  a  ball  of  garden  twine  that  had  become  tangled.  I  said,  &quot;Well,  that's  nice  of  course.  But  Damian's  married  already.&quot;  It  didn't  matter,  Joanna  said,  and  re-  peated  her  resolve.  Joanna  was  five  at  the  time.     WENTY-TWO  years  later  Damian  stood  on  the  wild  grass,  among  the  cornflowers  and  the  echiums  and  the  lavatera,  under  the  cricket-bat  willow  that  had  been  a  two-foot  shrub  when  Joanna  made  her  announcement.  He  was  wearing  blue  sunglasses  and  a  powder-  blue  suit  that  looked  new.  In  contrast,  his  tie-its  maroon  and  gold  stripes  seeming  to  indicate  membership  of  some  club  to  which  almost  certainly  Damian  did  not  belong-was  lank,  and  the  collar  of  his  shirt  was  frayed.  We  hadn't  been  expecting  him;  we  hadn't  heard  from  Damian  for  years.  Since  the  spring  of  1985,  Claire  afterward  calcu-  lated,  the  year  after  his  second  divorce,  from  an  American  widow  in  upstate  New  York.  Before  that  there  had  been  an  Englishwoman  who  lived  in  4974616c79,  about  whom  we  had  never  been  told  very  much.  When  Joanna  had  declared  her  childhood  intention  Damian  had  been  still  married  to  the  only  one  of  his  three  wives  Claire  and  I  actually  knew:  a  slender,  pretty  girl,  the  daughter  of  the  Bishop  of  Killaloe.  We  had  known  her  since  the  wedding;  I'd  been  Damian's  best  man.  I  was  actually  asleep  when  Damian  walked  into  our  garden  all  those  years  later,  and  I  think  Claire  was,  too.  We  were  lolling  in  deck  chairs,  Claire's  span-  iels  stretched  out  under  hers,  avoiding  the  afternoon  sun.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Damian  said.  &quot;It's  Damian.&quot;  We  were  surprised,  but  perhaps  not  much:  turning  up  out  of  the  blue  had  al-  BY  WILLIAM  TREVOR  ways  been  his  style.  He  never  tele-  phoned  first  or  intimated  his  intention  by  letter  or  on  a  postcard.  Over  the  years  he  had  arrived  in  all  seasons  and  at  vary-  ingtimes  of  day,  once  rousing  us  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Invariably  he  brought  with  him  details  of  a  personal  disaster  which  had  left  him  with  the  need  to  borrow  a  little  money.  These  loans  were  not  paid  back;  even  as  he  ac-  cepted  them  he  made  no  pretense  that  they  would  be.  &quot;Damian!&quot;  Claire  hugged  him,  laugh-  ing,  playfully  demanding  to  know  what  he  was  doing  in  that  awful  suit.  I  asked  him  where  he'd  been  and  he  said  oh,  a  lot  of  places-[REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  537061696e.Claire  made  him  sit  down,  say-  ing  she  was  going  to  make  some  tea,  in-  viting  him  to  stay  awhile.  He  was  the  tonic  we  needed,  Claire  said,  for  she's  always  afraid  that  we'll  stump  into  dull-  ness  unless  we're  careful.  A  woman,  somewhere,  had  given  him  the  suit;  we  both  guessed  that.  &quot;I  wasn't  all  that  well  in  537061696e,&quot;  Damian  said.  &quot;Some  kind  of  sunstroke.&quot;  We  are  the  same  age,  Damian  and  I,  not  young  anymore;  that  day,  as  we  sat  together  in  the  garden,  we  were  sixty  and  a  bit,  Claire  five  years  younger.  She's  tall  and  slim,  and  I  can't  believe  she'll  ever  be  anything  but  elegant,  but  of  course  I  know  I  may  be  wrong.  When  we  married  she  came  to  live  in  the  coun-  try  town  I've  always  known,  acquiring  an  extra  identity  as  the  doctor's  wife  and  the  receptionist  at  the  practice,  as  the  mother  of  a  daughter  and  a  son,  the  or-  ganizer  of  a  playgroup,  the  woman  who  first  taught  the  illiterate  of  the  town  toread.  Damian,  at  the  first  opportunity,  fled  this  neighborhood.  On  his  return  to  it,  the  time  before  this  one,  he  had  car-  ried-clearly  an  affectation-a  silver-  topped  cane,  which  was  abandoned  now,  no  doubt  because  it  drew  attention  to  its  own  necessity,  and  Damian  in-  clines  toward  vanity.  Although  he  sat  down  briskly  in  the  chair  Claire  had  va-  cated  for  him,  the  protest  of  a  joint  caused  him,  for  a  single  instant,  to  wince.  His  light,  fair  hair  is  gray  in  places  now,  and  I  don't  suppose  he  cares  for  that  either,  or  that  his  teeth  have  shrivelled  and  become  discolored,  nor  that  the  freckles  on  the  backs  of  his  hands  form  blobs  where  they  have  spread  into  one  another,  or  that  the  skin  of  his  forehead  is  as  dry  as  old  vel-  lum.  But  that  day  there  was  nothing  about  his  eyes  to  suggest  a  coming  to  terms  with  a  future  destined  to  be  differ-  ent  from  the  past,  no  hint  of  a  hesita-  tion  about  what  should  or  should  not  be  undertaken:  in  that  sense  Damian  re-  mains  young.  Even  when  he  was  a  boy  his  features  were  gaunt,  giving  the  impression  then  of  undernourishment.  He  is  angular,  but  without  any  of  the  awkwardness  some-  times  associated  with  that  quality.  In  spite  of  whatever  trouble  he  was  hav-  ing  with  a  joint,  he  could  still,  I  noticed  that  day,  tidy  himself  away  with  natural  ease.  As  always  at  the  beginning  of  a  visit,  he  was  good-humored;  moodi-  ness-sometimes  a  snappish  response  to  questions,  sometimes  silence-was  apt  to  set  in  later.  If,  in  terms  of  having  a  profession,  Damian  is  anything,  he  is  a  poet,  al-  though  in  all  the  years  I've  known  him  he  has  never  shown  me  more  than  a  verse  or  two.  Years  ago  someone  told  us  that  Damian  once  had  a  coterie  of  ad-  mirers  and  was  still,  in  certain  quarters,  considered  to  possess  &quot;a  voice&quot;  that  should  be  more  widely  heard.  A  volume  entitled  &quot;Slow  Death  of  a  Pigeon&quot;-its  contents  sparse,  Claire  and  I  always  as-  sumed,  for  nothing  about  Damian  sug-  gests  he  is  profligate  with  his  talent-  appears  to  represent  all  he  has  so  far  chosen  for  posterity.  In  time  we  would  receive  a  copy  of  &quot;Slow  Death  of  a  Pi-  geon,&quot;  he  promised  on  one  of  his  visits,  but  none  arrived.  &quot;Well,  yes,  it  was  that.  Something  like  it,&quot;  he  was  saying,  slightly  laughing,  when  I  returned  with  another  deck  chair  after  Claire  had  brought  out  the  tea  things.  He  had  repeated  all  he'd  told  me  FILIP  PAGOW  SKI  " b"about  his  sunstroke  and  thelack  of  any-  thing  of  interest  in  [REDACTED].  Yes,  he  was  confessing  now,  a  relationship  with  a  woman  had  featured  in  his  more  re-  cent  travels,  had  somehow  been  the  rea-  son  for  them.  There  was  no  confirma-  tion  that  the  powder-blue  suit  had  been  a  gift.  Damian  wouldn't  have  considered  that  of  interest.  &quot;I  thought  I'd  maybe  die,&quot;  he  said,  re-  turning  to  the  subject  of  his  sunstroke,  but  when  I  asked  him  what  he'd  taken  for  it,  what  treatment  there  had  been,  he  was  vague.  &quot;Bloody  visions,&quot;  he  said  instead.  &quot;Goya  stuff.&quot;  In  any  case,  he  confidently  pronounced,  537061696e  was  overrated.  Had  the  woman  been  Spanish,  I  wondered,  and  thought  of  dancers,  white  teeth  and  a  rosebud  that  was  red,  black  skirts  swirling,  red  ribbons  in  black  hair.  I  have  doctor  colleagues  who  farm  a  bit,  who  let  the  wind  blow  away  the  mixture  of  triviality  and  death  that  now  and  again  makes  our  consulting  rooms  melancholy  places.  Others  col-  lect  rare  books,  make  cabinets,  in-  volve  themselves  in  politics,  allow  gar-  dening  or  some  sport  to  become  a  way  of  life  to  skulk  in.  For  me,  Damian's  in-  frequent  visits,  and  wondering  about  him  in  between,  were  such  a  diversion.  Not  as  efficacious  as  afternoons  on  a  tractor  or  searching  out  a  Cuala  Press  edition  of  Yeats,  but  then  by  nature  I'm  lazy.  &quot;A  chapter  closed?&quot;  Claire  was  saying.  &quot;Should  never  have  been  opened.&quot;  Later,  in  the  kitchen,  I  decanted  the  wine  and  Claire  said  the  lamb  would  be  enough,  with  extra  potatoes  and  zuc-  chini.  We  heard  Joanna's  car  and  then  her  voice  exclaiming  in  surprise  and  Damian  greeting  her.  I  carried  a  tray  of  drinks  to  the  gar-  den.  Damian's  small  black  suitcase,  fa-  miliar  to  us  for  many  years,  was  still  on  the  grass  beside  his  deck  chair.  I  can  see  it  now.  HE  visit  followed  a  familiarpattern.  In  the  small  suitcase  there  were  shirts  and  underclothes  and  socks  in  needof  laundering,  and  when  they  had  been  through  the  washing  machine  most  of  them  were  seen  to  be  in  need  of  repair.  Damian,  besides,  was  penni-  -less;  and  there  was  the  request  that  if  anyone  telephoned  him-which  was,  he  said,  unlikely  since,  strictly  speaking,  no  one  knew  his  whereabouts-his  pres-  ence  in  our  house  should  be  denied.  When  we  were  children,  Damian  and  I  had  played  together  at  Doul,  the  gray,  half-derelict  house  where  his  Aunt  Una  had  brought  him  up.  Doul  is  no  longer  there,  having  been  sold  to  a  builder  for  the  lead  of  its  roof  and  later  razed.  Damian's  Aunt  Una  had  drunk  herself  to  death  in  a  house  trailer.  I  was  actually  there  when  her  head  jerked  sud-  denly  to  one  side  on  the  pillow,  the  vis-  ible  indication  of  her  demise.  She'd  been,  in  our  childhood,  a  vague  presence  in  that  old  house  and  its  lost  garden,  tall  and  handsome  yet  somehow  like  a  ghost  of  someone  else:  it  was  said  that  she  was  Damian's  mother.  People  who  remembered  her  advent,  with  an  infant,  in  the  neighborhood,  said  the  house  had  been  bought  for  her  by  the  man  who'd  made  her  pregnant,  buying  her  silence  also.  I  learned  all  that  later.  When  Da-  mian  and  I  were  eight,his  Aunt  Una  was  known  to  me  as  his  aunt  and  there  was  never,  afterward,  a  reason  to  doubt  that  she  was.  He  and  I  were  sent  away  to  different  schools-the  seducer  from  the  past  said  to  have  obliged  in  this  way,  also,  where  Damian's  boarding  fees  were  concerned-but  our  friendship  nonethe-  less  continued.  Damian-like  a  scare-  crow  sometimes  because  it  was  never  noticed  by  his  Aunt  Una  that  he  grew  out  of  his  clothes-was  easy  company,  hard  to  dislike,  an  antidote  to  the  pro-  vincial  respectability  I  grew  up  in.  We  wandered  about  the  countryside;  we  hung  about  point-to-points;  when  we  were  older  we  went  to  Friday  dance  halls  if  one  of  us  had  money;  we  dreamed  of  romance  with  Bettina  Nowd,  clerk  in  the  Munster  &amp;  Leinster  Bank.  Abrupt-  ly,  our  ways  parted,  and  remained  apart  for  a  long  time:  when  Damian,  at  nine-  teen,  left  the  neighborhood  he  did  not  return  for  fourteen  years,  by  which  time  his  Aunt  Una  was  dead  and  her  house  gone.  It  was  said  he  hadn't  written  to  her,  or  communicated  in  any  way  dur-  ing  that  time,  which  was  surprising  be-  cause  he  was  always  fond  of  her.  But  as  I  heard  nothing  from  him  either  it's  per-  haps  less  odd  than  it  seems.  For  Damian,  perhaps,  the  vacuum  of  peo-  ple's  absence  cannot  be  filled  by  any  other  means.  During  that  fourteen  years  he  and  I  met  only  once,  at  Killaloe  at  the  first  of  his  weddings.  I7  &quot;You  know,  I'd  like  tosee  Doul  again,&quot;  he  said  the  day  after  he'd  ap-  peared  in  his  powder-blue  suit.  So  we  went  there,  where  there  was  nothing  to  see,  not  even  the  house  trailer  his  Aunt  Una  died  in.  Beneath  the  brambles  that  grew  everywhere,  and  the  great  swaths  of  nettles,  there  might  have  been  re-  mains  of  some  kind,  but  if  there  were  the  naked  eye  could  not  discern  them.  When  we  walked  on  a  bit,  there  were  the  walls  of  the  kitchen  garden,  ivy-clad  in  places,  fallen  away  in  others.  &quot;You  couldn't  build  Doul  again,&quot;  I  pointed  out  when  he  said  he'd  like  to.  &quot;Not  without  a  fortune,  Damian.&quot;  He  muttered  something,  and  for  the  first  time  sounded  disagreeable.  There  was  some  kind  of  complaint,  a  protest  about  his  continuing  lack  of  means,  and  then:  &quot;The  avenue  ..  .  the  gates  .  ..&quot;  A  fragment  from  a  poem?  I  won-  dered.  Sometimes  in  Damian's  conver-  sation  words  stand  isolated  and  out  of  context,  as  though  they  do  not  belong  in  conversation  at  all.  &quot;The  house,&quot;  I  began.  &quot;Oh,  not  the  house  as  it  was.&quot;  Claire's  spaniels  sniffed  about  for  rab-  bits.  As  we  stood  there,  the  September  sun  felt  hot.  Damian  believes  in  the  im-  possible  and  when  we  were  younger  oc-  casionally  inspired  me  with  his  opti-  mism:  that  nothing  could  be  easier  than  poaching  salmon,  that  a  bookie  or  a  publican  would  accept  an  1.0.U.,  that  Bettina  Nowd  had  the  love  light  in  her  eyes.  It  was  an  endearing  quality  then;  I  wasn't  so  sure  about  its  being  one  that  had  endearingly  endured.  I  felt  uneasy  about  this  talk  of  coming  back.  During  the  companionshipof  our  youth  there  had  never  been  an  attempt  to  borrow  money,  since  there  was  none  tolend;  nor  was  advantage  taken  of  small  politenesses,  since  politeness  was  not  then  readily  on  offer.  The  threat  of  a  neighbor  with  a  fly-by-night's  presump-  tions  was  just  a  little  alarming.  &quot;Who  owns  it  now?&quot;  he  asked,  and  I  told  him:  the  son  of  the  builder  who  had  stripped  the  roof  of  its  lead.  The  cawing  of  rooks  and  the  occa-  sional  bark  of  the  dogs  were  the  only  sounds.  It  had  always  been  quiet  at  Dou!;  that  tall,  beautiful  woman  float,  ing  about  from  room  to  room  or  pick-  ing  the  last  of  the  mulberries;  bees  in  the  honeysuckle.  &quot;What?&quot;  I  said,  again  unable  to  catch  " b"Damian's  murmur.  Still  moody,  he  did  not  reply  directly,  but  seemed  to  say  that  the  muse  would  not  be  silent  here.  HAD  ceased  to  practice  on  my  sixti-  eth  birthday,  feeling  the  time  had  come,  although  previously  I  had  imag-  ined  I  could  go  on  more  or  less  forever,  as  my  father  had  in  this  same  house,  to  his  dying  day.  &quot;What'll  it  be  like?&quot;  Damian  used  to  ponder  when  we  were  young,  the  world  for  him  an  excitement  to  investigate  after  a  small,  familiar  town  in  southwest  Ireland.  Both  of  us,  of  course,  knew  what  it  would  be  like  for  me:  we  knew  my  father's  house,  its  com-  fortably  crowded  rooms,  its  pleasant  gar-  den;  we  knew  the  narrow  main  street,  the  shopkeepers,  priests,  and  beggars,  the  condensed-milk  factory,  the  burned-  out  cinema,  the  sleepy  courthouse,  the  bright  new  hospital,  the  oldasylum,  the  prison.  But  neither  of  us  could  conjec-  ture  a  single  thing  about  what  lay  ahead  for  Damian.     &quot;It's  all  right,  is  it?&quot;  Damian  asked  me  on  the  way  back  from  Doul  that  day,  his  mood  gregarious  again,  suddenly  so,  as  if  he  had  remembered  who  I  was.  &quot;Do-  ing  nothing  these  days  is  all  right?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  it's  all  right.&quot;  In  fact,  it  was  more  than  that:  all  sorts  of  things  were  easier  in  retirement.  People  weren't  patients  anymore.  Met  by  chance  on  the  street,  they  conversed  with  less  embarrassment,  while  privately  I  registered  that  Raynaud's  was  at  work  or  that  Frolich's  syndrome  would  not  now  be  reversed.  In  ordinary  chat,  awk-  ward  secrets  were  not  shared  with  me;  more  likely  I  was  shown  an  adolescent's  face  and  then  reminded  I'd  been  the  first  to  see  it  as  an  infant's;  or  informed  of  athletic  achievements  in  children  who  had  grown  up,  or  of  success  in  other  ways,  and  weddings  that  were  planned.  Worries  were  held  back,  not  coinage  for  me  now,  as  bad  backs  weren't,  or  stitched  wounds  or  blood  pressure,  the  smell  of  sickness  in  small  back  bedrooms.  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  14,  1994  &quot;Yes,  it's  fine,&quot;  I  said  in  the  bar  of  Traynor's  Hotel.  &quot;And  you?&quot;  I  added.  &quot;Nowadays,  Damian?&quot;  Again  he  became  morose.  He  shrugged  and  did  not  answer.  He  stared  at  the  back  of  a  man  who  was  standing  at  the  bar,  at  the  torn  seam  of  a  jacket.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I  used  to  think  about  Doul.  Wherever  I  was,  I'd  come  back  to  that.&quot;  From  his  tone,  those  thoughts  about  the  place  of  his  youth  had  been  a  com-  fort,  occurring-the  implication  was-  at  times  of  distress  or  melancholy.  Then  Damian  said,  as  if  in  response  to  a  question  I  had  not  asked,  &quot;Well  yes,  an  inspiration.&quot;  He  had  finished  the  whiskey  in  his  glass.  I  went  to  the  bar,  and  while  the  drinks  I  ordered  were  poured  I  was  asked  by  Mr.  Traynor  about  our  son,  now  a  doctor  in  New  South  [REDACTED],  and  about  Joanna,  who  had  returned  to  the  town  six  months  ago  to  work  in  the  prison.  &quot;You'd  be  delighted  she's  back  here,&quot;  Mr.  Traynor  conjectured,  and  I  agreed,  although  pointing  out  that  sooner  or  later  she  would  move  away  again.  I  smiled,  shrugging  that  away,  my  mind  not  on  the  conversation.  Could  Doul  have  been  a  poet's  inspiration  for  all  these  years?  I  wondered.  Was  that  the  meaning  I  was  supposed  to  find  in  what  had  been  so  vaguely  stated?  &quot;I  thought  I  recognized  him,&quot;  Mr.  Traynor  next  remarked,  his  voice  kept  low,  after  I  had  answered  his  query  about  who  Damian  was.  &quot;How're  you  doing  these  times?&quot;  he  calledout,  and  Damian  called  back  that  none  of  us  was  getting  younger.  &quot;God,  that's  the  truth  in  it,&quot;  Mr.  Traynor  agreed,  wagging  his  head  in  a  pretense  that  this  hadn't  occurred  to  him  before.  I  picked  up  my  change  and  made  my  way  back  to  the  table  where  we  sat.  &quot;Nothing  grand,&quot;  Damian  said,  as  if  my  absence  hadn't  interrupted  what  we'd  been  saying.  &quot;Any  little  hovel  that  could  be  knocked  together.  There  are  things.  ...&quot;  He  let  the  sentence  trail  away.  &quot;I  have  the  time  now.&quot;  I  sipped  my  drink,  disguising  amuse-  ment:  all  his  life  Damian  hadhad  time.  He  ran  through  time,  spending  it  as  a  spendthrift,  wallowing  in  idleness.  Per-  haps  poets  always  did,  perhaps  it  was  the  way  they  had  to  live;  I  didn't  know.  &quot;Stuff  accumulates,&quot;  Damian  con-  " b"fided,  &quot;unsaid.  Oh,  it's  just  a  thought,&quot;  he  added,  and  I  concluded,  with  consid-  erable  relief,  that  this  was  probably  the  last  we'd  hear  of  his  morning's  whim.  After  all,  there  was  no  sign  whatsoever  of  his  being  in  possession  of  the  neces-  sary  funds  to  build  the  modest  dwelling  he  spoke  of,  and  personal  loans  could  be  resisted.  &quot;Silly  old  Damian,&quot;  Claire  mur-  mured  when  I  told  her,  with  the  indul-  gent  smile  that  talk  of  Damian  always  drew  from  her.  HEN,  quite  suddenly,  everything  was  different.  Perhaps  in  the  same  moment-at  dinner  two  days  later-  Claire  and  I  were  aware  that  our  daugh-  ter  was  being  charmed  all  over  again  by  the  man  she  had  once  picked  out  as  the  man  she  would  like  to  marry.  To  this  day,  I  can  hear  their  two  voices  in  my  dining  room,  and  Damian  laughing  while  Claire  and  I  were  numbed  into  si-  lence.  To  this  day  I  can  see  the  bright  flush  in  Joanna's  cheeks.  &quot;And  are  you  settled,  Joanna?&quot;  Damian  asked.  &quot;Here?&quot;  &quot;For  the  time  being,&quot;  Joanna  said.  The  prison  is  two  miles  outside  the  town,  a  conglomeration  of  stark  gray  buildings  behind  high  gray  walls,  which  occasionally  I  have  visited  during  an  epi-  demic.  A4  sum  ard  labor,  a  waggish  in-  mate  has  carved  on  a  sundial  he  made  for  the  governor,  a  tag  that  is  a  talking  point  when  visitors  are  led  around.  Joanna  has  worked  in  prisons  in  Dublin  and  in  [REDACTED];  she  came  here  because  from  conversations  she  has  had  with  me  she  was  aware  that  rehabilitation-  which  is  her  territory-wasn't  being  much  bothered  with.  It  was  a  chal-  lenge  that  here  on  thedoorstep  of  the  town  she  was  born  and  grew  up  in  were  circumstances  that  professionally  outraged  her.  &quot;I  remember  sharinga  railway  car-  riage  with  a  man  who'd  just  been  re-  leased  from  jail,&quot;  Damian  said.  &quot;He  robbed  garages.&quot;  In  Joanna's  view,  a  spell  in  prison  was  the  offer  of  another  chance  for  the  offender,  a  time  to  come  to  terms  with  the  world  and  with  oneself.  She  was  an  optimist;  youhad  to  be,  she  insisted.  &quot;Lonely  wayside  garages,&quot;  Damian  said.  &quot;A  child  working  the  pumps.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  say-&quot;  &quot;All  he  said  was  that  he  didn't  intend  to  get  caught  the  next  time.&quot;  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  14,  1994  Beneath  these  exchanges  there  was  something  else,  a  tremor  that  was  shared;  a  tick  answered  another  tick,  fin-  gers  touched  although  a  dinner  table  separated  them.  I  pushed  my  knife  and  fork  together;  and  Claire  said  something  that  nobody  heard  and  went  to  the  kitchen.  Joanna  is  small  and  dark-haired,  and  pretty.  She  has  had  admirers,  a  proposal  of  marriage  from  a  mapmaker,  a  long-  ish  affair  with  an  ornithologist,  but  her  passionate  devotion  to  her  work  has  al-  ways  seemed  to  make  her  draw  back  when  there  was  pressure  that  a  relation-  ship  should  be  allowed  the  assumption  of  permanence.  It  was  as  though  she  protected  her  own  dedication,  as  though  she  believed  she  would  experience  a  dis-  loyalty  in  herself  if  she  in  any  way  de-  voted  less  time  and  energy  to  herwork.  Recidivists,  penitents,  old  lags,  onetime  defaulters,  drug  pushers,  muggers,  bur-  glars,  rapists:  these  were  her  lovers.  She  found  the  good  in  them,  and  yet,  when  telling  us  about  them,  did  not  de-  mand  that  we  should,  too.  It  has  never  been  her  way  to  lecture,  or  stridently  to  insist,  and  often  people  are  surprised  at  the  intensity  of  her  involvement,  at  the  steel  beneath  so  soft  a  surface.  Neither  Claire  nor  I  ever  say  so,  but  there  is  something  in  our  daughter  that  is  remarkable.  Across  the  dinner  table  that  evening  she  became  demure.  There  was  obedi-  ence  in  her  glance,  and  respect  for  every  ordinary  word  our  visitor  uttered,  as  though  she  would  blindly  have  acted  as  he  dictated  should  his  next  words  expressa  desire.  I  followed  Claire  into  the  kitchen,  carrying  plates  and  dishes.  &quot;I  always  wanted  to,&quot;  Joanna  was  say-  ing,  drawn  out  by  Damian  in  a  way  that  was  not  usual  in  his  conversa-  tion.  &quot;I  never  thoughtof  doing  any-  thing  else.&quot;  We  didn't  speak,  Claire  and  I,  in  the  kitchen.  We  didn't  evenlook  at  each  other.  It  was  our  fault;  we  had  per-  mitted  this  stroke  of  fate  to  stake  its  claim.  The  suitable  admirers-the  dark-  haired  mapmaker,  the  ornithologist,  and  others-were  not  what  a  retriever  of  lost  causes,  a  daily  champion  of  down-and-outs,  had  ever  wanted.  In  the  dining  room  the  voices  chatted  on,  and  in  the  kitchen  we  felt  invaded  by  them,  Claire  and  I,  she  tumbling  rasp-  berries  into  a  blue  glass  bowl,  I  spoon-  " b"ing  coffee  into  the  filter.  &quot;I  remem-  ber  hearing  you'd  been  born,&quot;  Damian  was  saying  in  the  dining  room  when  we  returned.  It  was  I  who  had  told  him.  I  deliv-  ered  Joanna  myself;  Claire  and  I  heard  her  first  cry  in  the  same  moment.  &quot;A  girl,&quot;  I  said  when  Damian  arrived  six  months  later  for  one  of  his  visits,  and  we  drank  my  whiskey  on  a  bitter  January  night.  &quot;How  nice  to  have  a  daughter,&quot;  he  murmured  when  we  gazed  down  at  the  cot  by  Claire's  bedside.  And  he  was  right:  it  was  nice  having  a  girl  as  well  as  a  boy,  nice  being  a  family.  Even  then,  two  different  personalities  were  appar-  ent:  our  son's  easygoing,  rarely  ruffled,  Joanna's  confident.  At  five  and  six,  long-  legged  and  determined,  she  won  the  races  she  ran  because  insistently  she  be-  lieved  she  could.  Oh  no,  she  wouldn't,  she  asserted  when  it  was  pointed  out  that  she  would  tire  of  looking  after  the  unattractive  terrier  she  rescued  after  tinkers  left  it  behind.  And  for  years,  un-  til  the  creature  died  in  old  age,  she  did  look  after  it.  &quot;It  was  snowing  outside,&quot;  Damian  reminisced  in  the  dining  room.  &quot;Black  Bush  was  what  we  drank,  Joanna,  the  night  your  father  and  I  wet  the  baby's  head.&quot;  His  fingernails  were  rimmed:  ash  from  the  cigarettes  he  was  smoking,  as  he  always  does,  between  courses.  Once  upon  a  time,  years  ago,  he  affected  a  cigarette  holder.  He  had  sold  it,  he  told  Claire  when  she  asked,  and  we  guessed  it  had  been  another  gift  from  a  woman,  sold  when  the  affair  was  over.  &quot;Raspberries,  Damian?&quot;  Claire  offered.  He  smiled  his  acceptance.  He  placed  his  cigarette,  still  burning,  on  a  side  plate,  and  poured  cream  on  the  fruit.  I  wondered  if  children  had  been  born  to  him;  I  hadn't  wondered  that  before.  I  imagined,  as  I  often  had,  his  public-  house  life  in  [REDACTED],  some  places  he  could  not  enter  because  of  debts,  late-  night  disagreements  turning  sour.  I  had  a  feeling  that  his  travels  to  other  places-so  often  mentioned-had  al-  ways  been  of  brief  duration,  that  Lon-  don  was  where  he  had  mostly  belonged,  in  seedy  circumstances.  I  imagined  lodg-  ings,  rent  unpaid,  possessions  pawned.  How  often  had  there  been  flits  in  the  small  hours?  Were  small  dishonesties  a  poet's  right?  And  yet,  I  thought  as  well,  he  was  our  friend  and  almost    " b" always  had  been.  He'd  cheered  our  lives.  &quot;Damian's  tired  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  Joanna  said.  &quot;He's  going  to  live  at  Doul  again.&quot;  N  the  night,  believing  me  to  be  asleep,  Claire  wept.  I  whispered,  trying  to  console  her.  We  didn't  say  to  each  other  that  shock  came  into  this,  that  we  must  allowa  little  time  to  calm  us.  We  lay  there,  remembering  that  not  much  longer  than  twenty-four  hours  ago  Claire  had  said  our  friend  was  the  tonic  we  needed.  On  all  his  visits  we'd  never  been  dismayed  to  see  him,  and  he  couldn't  help  being  older  now,  less  handsome  than  he  had  been,  his  grub,  biness  more  noticeable.  He  was,  at  heart,  as  he  had  always  been.  It  was  un-  fair  to  say  he  wasn't,  just  because  he  had  cast  a  spell  in  our  house.  We'd  always  known  about  those  spells.  We'd  read  be-  tween  the  lines,  we  hadn't  been  misled.  Marriage  was  what  we  dreaded,  al-  though  neither  of  us  used  the  word.  It  was  not  because  Damian  had  so  often  confessed  he  liked  to  marry  that  our  melancholy  threw  up  this  stark  predic-  tion;  it  was  because  Joanna  was  Joanna.  We  might  be  wrong,  we  felt  each  other  thinking;  a  tawdry  love  affair  might  be  enough.  But  we  did  not  believe  it  and  neither  of  us  suggested  the  consolation  of  this  lesser  pain.  Nor  did  we  remind  each  other  that  Joanna,  all  her  life,  had  been  attracted  by  the  difficult,  nor  did  we  share  it  with  each  other  when  in  the  dark  we  were  more  certainly  aware  that  there  had  been  no  challenge  in  her  rela-  tionship  with  the  mapmaker  or  the  or-  nithologist,  or  with  any  of  her  suitable  admirers.  Perhaps,  that  night,  we  knew  our  daughter  a  little  better,  and  perhaps  we  loved  her  just  a  little  more.  She  would  succeed  where  other  women  had  failed;  already  we  could  hear  her  offering  this,  already  we  sensed  hernot  believing  that  the  failure  could  lie  anywhere  but  with  thoseother  women.  &quot;I'm  going  to  marry  Damian,&quot;  the  childish  silliness  brightly  echoed,  and  with  it  our  amusement.  Had  he  come  to  us  this  time  with  a  purpose?  Claire  asked  when  she  ceased  to  weep.  Did  he  intend  our  daughter  to  earn  his  living  for  him,  to  tend  him  in  the  place  of  his  childhood,  cosseting  his  old  man's  frailties?  Had  his  future  lit  up  suddenly  on  a  [REDACTED]  street,  the  years  ahead  radiant  as  a  jewel  in  his  imagina-  tion?  &quot;I'll  tell  them,&quot;  had  our  daughter  said  already,  planning  to  sit  us  down,  to  THE  NEW  YORKER,  NOVEMBER  14,  1994  pour  out  drinks  in  celebration?  She  would  break  the  news  that  was  not  news,  and  we'd  embrace  her,  not  pointing  out  that  Damian  couldn't  help  destroying  his  achievements.  And  she  would  hurry  to  him  when  he  next  appeared  and  they  would  stand  together  as  lovers  do.  We  could  not  foretell  the  details  after  that,  and  quite  suddenly  the  form  the  rela-  tionship  might  take  in  time  hardly  seemed  to  matter  anymore:  enough  of  it  was  there  already.  &quot;Are  we  being  pun-  ished?&quot;  Claire  asked,  and  I  didn't  know  if  we  were  or  not,  or  why  we  should  be  punished,  or  what  our  sin  was.  We  didn't  want  that  night  to  end.  We  didn't  want  to  feel,  again,  the  excite-  ment  that  had  crept  into  our  house,  that  passed  us  by  and  was  not  ours.  It  was  not  in  Damian's  nature  to  halt  an  adven-  ture  that  was  already  under  way,  not  in  his  nature  toacquire  from  nowhere  the  decency  that  would  forbid  it  to  proceed.  His  bedroom  would  not  be  empty  when  morning  came,  the  small  suitcase  gone,  anote  left  on  his  bedside  table.  &quot;Remem-  ber  the  others?&quot;  Claire  whispered  in  the  dark,  and  I  knew  whom  she  meant  with-  out  having  to  think-the  daughter  of  the  Bishop  of  Killaloe,  the  widow  from  upstate  New  York,  the  Englishwoman  in  4974616c79,  and  other  nameless  women  mentioned  by  our  friend  in  passing.  IIl  suited,  we  said,  when  we  learned  that  the  first  of  his  marriages  had  fallen  apart,  and  were  too  busy  in  those  busy  days  to  be  more  than  sorry.  We  had  hardly  wondered  about  the  fate  of  the  bishop's  daughter,  and  not  at  all  about  the  American  widow,  except  to  say  to  each  other  that  it  was  typical  of  Damian  to  make  the  same  mistake  twice.  And  when  the  Englishwoman  left  him  it  was  a  joke.  Old  reprobate,  we  said.  Incorrigible.  The  first  streaks  of  dawn  came  flick-  ering  in,  the  birds  began.  We  lay  there  silent,  not  trusting  ourselves  to  comment  on  this  past  that  the  present  had  thrown  up.  The  bishop's  daughter-younger  than  Joanna  was  now  in  her  wedding  dress,  and  I  felt  again  the  warm  touch  of  her  cheek  when  I  kissed  it,  and  heard  her  reply  to  my  good  wishes,  her  shy  voice  saying  she  was  happier  than  she  deserved  to  be.  And  a  face  from  a  photograph  we'd  once  been  shown  was  the  oval  face  of  the  American,  dark  hair,  dark  eyes,  lips  slightly  parted.  And  the  face  of  the  Englishwoman  was  just  a  guess,  a  face  contorted  in  a  quarrel,  made  " b"   bitter  with  cold  tears.  The  shadows  of  other  men's  wives,  of  lovely  women,  girls  charmed,  clamored  for  attention,  break-  ing  from  their  shadows,  taking  form.  Old  reprobate.  &quot;I  think  I'll  go  and  talk  to  her.&quot;  Claire's  voice  was  hushed  in  the  twilight,  but  she  didn't  move,  and  I  knew  that  al-  ready  she  had  changed  her  mind;  talk-  ing  would  make  everything  worse.  Eighty-one,  Claire  said:  he  would  be  eighty-one  when  Joanna  was  forty-eight.  I  didn't  calculate.  It  didn't  matter.  I  thought  we  might  quarrel,  that  tiredness  might  bring  something  like  that  on,  but  we  didn't.  We  didn't  round  on  each  other,  blaming  in  order  to  shed  guilt,  bicker-  ing  as  we  might  have  once,  when  upsets  engendered  edginess.  We  didn't  because  ours  are  the  dog  days  of  marriage  and  there  aren't  enough  left  to  waste:  dan-  gerous  ground  has  long  ago  been  charted  and  is  avoided  now.  There  was  no  point  in  saying,  either,  that  the  dam-  age  we  already  sensed  would  become  en-  tertainment  for  other  people,  as  damage  had  for  us.  &quot;T'll  make  tea,&quot;  Isaid,  and  descended  the  stairs  softly  as  I  always  do  at  this  early  hour  so  as  not  to  wake  our  daugh-  ter.  Sometime  today  Damian  and  I  might  again  call  in  at  Traynor's;  I  might,  in  sickening  humility,  ask  for  mercy.  I  heard  my  own  voice  doing  so,  but  the  sound  was  false,  wrong  in  all  sorts  of  ways;  I  knew  I  wouldn't  say  a  thing.  To  insure  that  our  daughter  had  a  roof  over  her  head  I  would  lend  whatever  was  necessary.  A  bungalow  would  replace  the  fallen  house  at  Doul.  The  Irish  Times  was  half  pushed  through  the  letter  box;  I  slipped  it  out.  I  brought  the  tray  back  to  our  bedroom,  with  gingersnap  biscuits  on  a  plate  be-  cause  we  like  them  in  the  early  morn-  ing.  We  read  the  paper.  We  didn't  say  much  else.  Later  that  morning  Joanna  hurried  through  cornflakes  and  a  slice  of  toast.  Her  car  started,  reversed,  then  dashed  away.  Damian  appeared  and  we  sat  out-  side  in  the  September  sunshine;  Claire  made  fresh  coffee.  It  was  too  late  to  hate  him.  It  was  too  late  to  deny  that  we'd  been  grateful  when  ourstay-at-home  smugness  had  been  enlivened  by  the  tales  of  his  adventures,  or  to  ask  him  if  he  knew  how  life  had  turned  out  for  the  women  who  had  loved  him.  In-  stead  we  conversed  inconsequentially. "