BUSH  PIGS  BY  RICHARD  DOOLING   TS  not  easy  coming  back  to  this  country.  It's  not  like  any  other  coun-  try  in  the  world.  Most  of  you  don't  know  that,  because  you  live  here,  and  you've  never  been  anywhere  else,  except  maybe  the  Caribbean,  which  is  like  a  bigbeach,  or  Europe,  which  is  like  going  to  an  old  museum.  Europeans  sit  at  tables  with  knives  and  forks.  They  have  beds  and  sheets,  toilets  and  garbage  cans.  Africa  is  different.  The  expatriates  there  will  tell  you  that  the  reverse  culture  shock  of  coming  back  to  [REDACTED]  can  be  worse  than  the  shock  ofgoing  Third  World  in  the  first  place.  For  three  years  I  was  in  the  Peace  Corps,  and  I  lived  in  a  village  in  the  south  of  Sierra  Leone,  [REDACTED]  Africa.  I'd  like  to  say  that  I  stayed  so  long  because  the  villagers  neededme,  but  that  would  be  a  lie.  I  owed  a  lot  on  my  college  loans,  I  heard  that  jobs  back  home  were  scarce,  I  didn't  want  to  go  to  law  school,  a  certain  village  girl  prepared  my  meals  for  me  and  took  care  of  me  in  other  ways,  and  for  a  longtime  a  couple  of  diamond  diggers  and  I  were  smoking  the  very  best  Nigerian  jamba  every  night  and  listening  to  Bob  Marley  and  Lucky  Dube,  King  Sunny  Ad\xc3\xa9  and  Johnny  Clegg  Savuka.  Time  passed.  I  used  to  drink  with  a  white  missionary  at  Sulima  Beach-twenty  minutes  by  footpath  and  the  most  beautiful  place  in  theworld.  One  night  we  laughed  over  beers  about  how  a  local  witch-finder  had  put  a  swear  on  him.  Four  days  later  his  body  washed  up  on  the  beach  in  front  of  the  thatched  baffa  where  we  had  watched  the  sun  set.  The  [REDACTED]  government  sent  me  to  Si-  erra  Leone  to  help  starving  Africans,  but  at  least  half  the  time,  the  starving  Afri-  cans  took  care  of  me.  For  every  week  I  was  able  to  hobble  out  of  my  hut,  I  spent  two  more  curled  upon  a  tick  mat-  tress  with  dysentery  or  malaria.  When  the  fever  was  upon  me,  soothsayers  called  &quot;looking-around  men&quot;  came  and     washed  their  eyes  with  lotions  made  from  magic  leaves;  then  they  threw  stones  on  a  mat  and  told  my  fortune.  The  prognosis  was  always  bad,  the  cures  and  propitiatory  sacrifices  were  always  expensive.  There  was  no  protein  anywhere,  only  rotten  vegetable  matter.  It  was  hard  to  keep  weight  on-even  556e6974656420537461746573n  money  couldn't  buy  better  food.  I  had  wounds,  simple  nicks  or  mosquito  bites,  that  be-  came  suppurating  tropical  sores.  The  Peace  Corps  provided  a  manual  called  &quot;Where  There  Is  No  Doctor,&quot;  and  it  said  that  my  wounds  were  not  healing  because  the  body  needs  protein  to  make  new  cells  and  repair  itself.  Oh.  The  war  in  Liberia,  to  the  south,  started  spilling  over  into  Sierra  Leone.  Food  became  even  scarcer.  The  rice  farms  went  untended  because  people  were  afraid  to  go  out  in  the  bush.  The  villagers  were  dropping  concentrated  in-  secticides  into  ponds  and  eating  the  fish  that  bobbed  to  the  surface.  Even  ba-  nanas  were  scarce,  and  the  ones  that  the  groundnut  girls  sold  to  me  were  stiff  and  green.  When  I  ate  them,  they  came  back  up,  and  all  the  water  I  had  boiled  that  morning  went  out  the  other  end.  Fevers  came,  and  nightmares  that  I  woke  up  and  lived  in.  I  suppose  I  should  have  left,  but  I  was  too  sick  to  travel.  In-  stead,  I  sat  in  my  hut  and  listened  to  tales  of  witchcraft  and  bad  medicine,  toldto  the  villagers  by  refugees  stream-  ing  in  from  Liberia.  All  along  the  bor-  der,  the  forests  were  teeming  with  bush  devils  and  Liberian  warriors,  cannibals  who  made  something  called  Liberian  stew  out  of  slaughtered  women  and  chil-  dren  and  ate  it  before  going  into  battle.  Theymade  medicines  from  the  flesh  of  human  beings,  and  these  medicines  gave  them  so  much  power  that  they  could  not  be  killed  in  battle;  bullets  bounced  off  them.  They  could  change  themselves  into  elephants,  leopards,  baboons.  This  &quot;shape-shifting,&quot;  as  itis  called  in  Africa,  is  very  common.  The  villagers  all  believed  this  was  absolutely  true:  that  certain  human  beings  could  change  themselves  into  animals  at  will,  All  over  Sierra  Leone,  hunters  quickly  cut  the  ears  off  the  animals  they  killed  for  just  this  reason.  Ifa  hunter  killed  a  witch  or  a  sorcerer  travelling  in  the  shape  ofan  animal,  the  animal  would  change  back  into  its  human  shape,  and  the  hunter  would  be  accused  of  murder-unless  he  had  the  animal's  ears  to  prove  his  innocence.  I  dwell  on  this  only  because  the  ani-  mal  stuff  becomes  important  later  on,  and  I  think  I  was  ambushed  from  the  inside.  I  had  forgotten  that  the  Ameri-  can  unconscious  is  inside.  In  Africa,  it's  outside  the  body,  in  the  bush.  Super-  natural  spirits  roam  in  both  places,  take  on  the  shapes  of  men  or  animals,  and  go  on  killing  rampages.  Human  blood  gives  these  devils  great  pleasure.  Does  it  mat-  ter  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  spirits  appear  in-  side  the  mind  of  a  guy  who  likes  to  plan  the  day  his  spree  of  violence  will  be  cov-  ered  on  the  six-o'clock  news,  whereas  the  African  ones  come  rampaging  in  from  the  bush?  One  way  or  another,  they  show  up,  and  I  was  ready  only  for  the  outside  kind.  The  civil  war  got  worse,  and  hordes  of  fleeing  Liberians  streamed  through  our  village.  Breathing  skeletons  in  rags  putting  one  foot  in  front  of  the  other,  children  carrying  other  children.  Some  of  them  gave  up  and  collapsed  in  the  clearings  of  our  village.  I  saw  a  beggar  dying  on  a  mat.  Flies  were  swarming  in  his  eyes,  crawling  in  and  out  of  his  bleeding  sockets,  and  he  was  still  alive,  and  holding  out  his  hands  to  me.  The  villagers  had  long  and  earnest  discussions  about  leaving  their  homes  and  the  land  their  ancestors  had  farmed  for  centuries.  They  were  desperate  for  news  that  soldiers,  any  soldiers,  were  coming  to  restore  order,  so  the  families  could  go  back  to  their  farms.  The  more  educated  people  among  them  prayed  that  poo-muis-white  people,  Europeans  or  556e6974656420537461746573ns-would  hear  of  their  &amp;  plight  and  send  soldiers  and  doctors  and  \xc2\xa7  healthy  relief  workers  to  help,  as  had  happened  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  FILIP  PAG     " b"One  night  there  was  great  excitement  in  the  village  because  travellers  in  from  Freetown  had  heard  that  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  film  crew  had  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  Africa.  Now  there  was  hope.  Maybe  the  film  crew  would  make  movies  of  the  slaugh-  ter  in  Liberia.  Maybe  they  would  make  movies  about  starving  people.  Maybe,  after  the  pictures  were  sent  back,  the  [REDACTED]  Marines  would  come.  Maybe  food  and  medicine  would  come.  But  a  week  later  we  learned  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  film  crew  was  making  a  movie  about  female  circumcision.  People  in  [REDACTED]  did  not  want  tosee  starving  people  or  slaugh-  tered  Liberians.  The  people  in  [REDACTED]  wanted  toseepictures  of  the  women's  secret-society  initiations.  Finally  the  Peace  Corps  program  di-  rector  came  with  a  Land  Rover  and  stuffed  me  in  the  back.  He  tried  not  to  be  nervous  aboutbeing  out  in  my  part  of  the  bush.  I  gave  away  my  food  and  most  of  my  stuff  to  the  villagers.  I  gave  my  books  to  an  old  ma  who  sold  food  on  the  highway;  in  better  days,  she  had  used  book  pages  to  wrap  five-cent  orders  of  groundnuts.  I  tried  to  give  a  half  bag  of  rice  and  a  tin  of  palm  oil  to  two  skel-  etal  kids,  but  they  were  too  weak  to  lift  either  one.  Before  I  left,  I  told  everyone  to  get  out,  because  the  Liberian  rebels  were  going  to  burn  all  the  villages  in  the  southeast  and  seize  the  diamond  pits.  The  villagers  said  they  were  staying.  There  was  new  hope:  five  white  nuns  had  been  killed  in  Liberia-maybe  now  556e6974656420537461746573n  soldiers  would  come.  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  doctor  in  Freetown  told  me  my  blood  work  and  my  stool  specimen  would  get  me  free  medical  care  back  in  the  States,  because  I  was  full  of  bugs  the  infectious-disease  people  paid  tuition  to  see.I  was  medivacked  out  of  Freetown  and  flown  home  for  the  first  time  in  three  years.  HEN  I  got  off  the  plane  in  [REDACTED],  my  family  and  a  few  friends  met  me  at  the  airport.  I  watched  the  excitement  evaporate  from  their  faces  when  they  saw  how  much  weight  I  had  lost,  how  malaria  had  drained  the  color  from  my  face.  The  lights  made  me  blink  and  sweat.  Metal  and  glass  glared  at  me  from  everywhere  and  lit  the  pained  expressions  of  people  who  wanted  me  to  be  three  years  and  a  few  diseases  younger.  1&quot;  &quot;We  were  so  worried  about  you  they  said.  &quot;I  was  cleaning  the  refrigerator  when  I  heard  you  couldn't  get  out,&quot;  said  my  mom.  Her  face  was  caked  with  some-  thing,  and  there  was  paint  around  her  eyes.  Her  hair  was  all  stuck  together  and  heaped  on  top  of  itself  in  weird,  stiff  swirls,  frozen  in  time  like  sculpture.  &quot;The  phone  rang  and  the  State  Depart-  ment  people  said  you  were  being  held  hostage  in  Sierra  Leone,&quot;  she  continued.  &quot;I  was  so  worried!&quot;  &quot;I  was  trying  to  finish  my  thesis,&quot;  said  my  brother.  &quot;Mom  called  me  and  said  that  cannibals  had  captured  you.  Totally  abnormal,  or  what!&quot;  My  old  girlfriend  was  there.  She  was  putting  herself  through  veterinary  school  by  working  at  a  dog  beauty  salon.  The  day  she  heard  the  news,  she  was  so  dis-  tracted  she  fell  three  dogs  behind  and  al-  most  got  fired  when  the  owners  had  to  wait  for  their  dogs.  One  by  one,  they  described  in  idiotic  detail  exactly  what  they  had  been  doing  when  they  heard  that  I  was  trapped  in  rebel  territory  in  Sierra  Leone.  For  some  reason,  what  \xc2\xa3hey  were  doing  at  the  time  was  extremely  important  to  them.  But  now  that  it  was  over,  now  that  I  was  not  dead,  they  were  all  so  glad  they  didn't  have  to  worry  anymore!  Wasn't  I  glad,  too?  They  had  a  big  celebration  all  planned.  They  had  a  long  list  of  things  we  were  going  to  do,  all  in  one  night:  steak,  ice  cream,  cold  beer,  movies,  a  hot  tub.  Everything  they  just  knew  I  had  been  missing.  My  buddy  Kurt  handed  me  an  open  beer,  right  there  in  the  airport.  I  hesi-  tated,  just  for  a  second,  because  lately  I  had  been  worried  about  certain  African  enemies  of  mine  trying  to  poison  me.  And  after  all  this  hell  happened,  I  won-  dered  if  somebody  Jed  poisoned  me  and  turned  me  into  somebody  else.  I  had  to  be  hungry-starving!-they  decided,  so  they  took  me  to  the  restau-  rant  first.  We  had  to  drive  several  cars,  even  though  we  didn't  need  them,  be-  cause  there  were  people  with  beepers  and  fold-up  telephones  who  might  be  called  away  at  any  moment.  I  went  with  my  girlfriend  in  a  truck.  &quot;Why  are  you  driving  a  truck?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Sport  utility,&quot;  she  said,  without  ex-  plaining  what  that  meant.  It  had  automatic  seat  belts.  Freezing  83  air  gushed  out  of  the  dashboard.  A  water-bed  commercial  came  out  of  the  radio,  human  voices  speaking  English  words  too  fast  to  make  any  sense.  She  hadtwo  dogs,  and  they  were  riding  in  the  cargo  area,  lap  things  with  bows  in  the  hair  around  their  ears.  Bert  and  Ernie.  They  were  purebreds  of  some  kind.  They  looked  like  small  creatures  from  a  movie  about  another  planet;  they  belonged  in  the  lap  of  an  evil  intergalac-  tic  dictator  who  was  about  to  destroy  earthlings  and  all  of  human  civilization  by  pressing  a  channel  changer.  She  said  she  loved  me  and  had  missed  me  very  much.  There  were  two  separatedishes  in  theback,  because  she  used  the  Cycle  Plan  from  Ken-L  Ration.  Bert  ate  Cycle  Lite  for  overweight  and  less  active  adult  dogs.  Ernie  ate  Cycle  Senior,  which  contains  easily  digestible  protein  for  older  dogs  with  slowing  metabolisms.  She  said  she  wanted  to  make  love  to  me  but  didn't  want  to  catch  whatever  was  making  me  sick.  She  wanted  to  put  Ernie  in  a  dog  show,  but  there  was  something  wrong  with  his  teeth;  she  had  to  send  him  to  a  dog  orthodontist,  so  she  could  win  prizes  with  him  and  re-  coup  the  money  she  had  paid  for  his  lin-  eage.  She  wished  she  could  tell  me  just  how  worried  and  upset  she  had  been  about  me  being  trapped  behind  rebel  lines.  Bert  vomited  every  time  he  ate,  so  she  had  sent  him  to  a  pet  psychologist,  who  said  it  was  because  she  left  her  dogs  alone  all  day  while  she  was  at  school  and  at  the  salon,  and  then  came  home  smell-  ing  of  other  dogs.  That  was  also  why  he  soiled  the  pillow  at  the  head  of  her  bed  every  day  after  she  left.  That's  why  she  had  the  dogs  in  the  back.  She  didn't  want  the  bed  to  be  full  of  shit  when  we  went  home.  Between  the  dog  prob-  lems  and  me  in  rebel  trouble  in  Sierra  Leone,  she  had  been  really  upset.  She  was  taking  some  pills  called-Prozap?-  that  made  her  feel  really,  really  wonder-  ful  and  really  great,  and  these  pills  had  absolutely  no  side  effects,  and  the  stud-  ies  had  shown  they  were  absolutely  not  addictive,  so  she  could  take  them  all  day,  every  day,  forever.  I1  should  take  them,  too,  she  advised,  especially  if  see-  ing  terrible  things  in  Africa  had  made  me  sad.  The  truck  merged  onto  an  inter-  state-a  vast,  empty  expanse  of  smooth  cement.  No  cars  in  front  of  us,  no  cars  behind  us.  We  could  go  as  fast  as  we     " b" wanted.  Every  now  and  again  another  person  drove  by  ina  huge  new  car,  driving  right  down  the  middle  with  vacant  lanes  on  either  side.  The  cars  floated  like  glass-and-steel  bubbles  in  outer  space-beautiful  spaceships  with  no  passengers  or  goods  or  animals  in  them,  just  drivers  driving  in  wide-open  lanes  and  going  as  fast  as  they  wanted,  their  windows  rolled  up,  even  though  it  was  summer.  I  had  to  stop  at  a  gas  station.  I  spared  my  girlfriend  the  full  story  of  my  intes-  tinal  woes  by  telling  her  I'd  had  a  few  beers  on  the  plane.  The  toilet  paper  was  very  nice,  but  for  just  a  second  I  forgot  whether  I  was  supposed  to  sit  on  the  porcelain  or  just  squat  over  it  like  the  holes  in  the  floor  in  [REDACTED]  Africa.  The  billboards  were  spectacular  works  of  art,  but  I  had  trouble  re-  membering  why  they  were  there.  They  were  orange  and  yellow  and  red,  with  products  and  overblown  human  faces.  Half-naked  women  in  swimsuits  and  underwear  fondled  cigarettes  and  held  them  just  so  in  front  of  their  parted  lips.  These  were  very  beautiful  women,  with  swollen  lips  painted  red  and  half  open.  I  had  not  seen  pictures  of  such  women  in  quite  a  while.  For  three  years,  I  had  seen  only  village  women,  whose  teats  were  sucked  flat  by  the  age  of  sixteen,  and  by  twenty-two  they  had  nipples  banging  against  their  bellies  as  they  hulled  rice.  These  billboard  women  in  dishabille  were  absolutely  captivating.  I  knew  that  people  had  blown  up  these  huge  glossy  photographs  of  half-naked  women  and  had  mounted  them  on  bill-  boards  with  spotlights  because  they  knew  that  the  instant  I  saw  them  I  would  want  to  make  love  to  them.  It  was  so  obvious!  Why  else  would  they  put  those  huge  photos  there?  Why  else  would  the  breasts  be  so  large  and  firm,  and  straining  at  the  seams  of  flimsy  garments?  Global  corporations  had  spent  huge  sums  of  money  creating  these  images  for  me.  They  wanted  me  to  look  at  them  and  think,  I'm  ready  now.  But  I  had  forgotten  what  all  of  these  breasts  and  lips  and  provocations  to  make  love  had  to  do  with  cigarettes.  I  was  on  the  verge  of  sorting  it  out  when  the  dogs  started  barking  in  the  cargo  area.  Bert  had  thrown  up  his  Cycle  THE  NEW  YORKER,  OCTOBER  10,  1994  Lite-which,  frankly,  had  the  attractive  aroma  of  surplus  protein.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  JE  got  off  the  highway  and  drove  up  to  a  building  with  amassive  plastic  bull's  head-bigger  than  the  umbel  of  a  full-grown  palm,  and  lit  from  within  by  powerful  beacons  or  searchlights.  It  was  a  glowing  Angus  steer's  head  mounted  on  a  huge  sign  out  front.  This  was  some  kind  of  ad-  vertisement  for  the  steak  house;  I  knew  that,  but  again  I  had  trouble  making  connections.  I  kept  wanting  to  think  it  was  a  totem  thing,  like  maybe  Hindus  were  worshipping  cows  inside.  Was  I  supposed  to  think  that  cattle  were  be-  ing  killed  and  eaten  in  there?  No,  it  was  just  an  ad,  a  cute  symbol,  like  the  women  getting  ready  to  perform  fella-  tio  on  a  cigarette.  1  dwell  on  it  only  be-  cause  this  may  have  been  the  beginning  of  my  disorientation  and  the  start  of  the  weird  animal  thing.  Before  I  went  in,  I  almost  had  myself  all  straightened  out:  Sure,  if's  a  big,  glowing  cow's  head,  because  they  serve  cow  meat  inside.  But  what  if  a  horse's  head  were  up  there  in-  stead?  Would  that  mean  they  served  horse  meat?  No,  that  would  probably  mean  it  was  a  43616e616461ern  store  selling  boots  and  saddles.  And  what  if  it  were  a  pig's  head?  I  remember  thinking  that,  and  given  what  happened  later,  it  may  have  been  important.  Inside  was  a  dark,  crowded  restau-  rant,  blissfully  cool,  and  lit  by  candles  in  ornate  red  bowls.  A  blood-colored  glow  rose  from  the  bowls  and  flickered  off  the  walls.  Dishes  clattered,  silverware  rang,  glasses  tinkled  after  toasts.  The  smell  of  food  seared  my  belly  with  hunger.  My  skin  thrilled  to  the  blasts  of  cool  air,  but  then  I  got  cold  and  shivered.  We  were  seated  at  an  altar  that  was  covered  with  white  cloth  and  set  with  chalices,  gleaming  silverware,  and  sacra-  mental  plates  with  gold  inlays.  All  around  us,  very  large  pink  people  in  evening  dress  were  laughing,  bowing  over  tables  heaped  with  food,  ice  buck-  ets,  bottles  of  wine  wrapped  in  towels  and  nestled  in  silver  coolers,  baskets  of  fresh-baked  bread,  and  plates  smeared  with  half-finished  entr\xc3\xa9es.  My  visual  disturbances  started  with  a  huge  round  guy  at  the  table  next  to  us.  He  was  talking  about  a  woman  who  had  cutoff  a  man's  penis.  In  fact,  everybody  was  talking  about  a  woman  who  had  cut  " b"BUSH  PIGS  off  a  man's  penis.  People  had  been  watching  a  program  about  this  on  TV  while  we  were  waiting  for  my  bags  at  the  airport.  It  had  been  on  the  radio  in  the  truck.  My  girlfriend  told  me  about  it.  And  then  she  told  everyone  at  the  table  that  she  had  told  me  about  it.  Millions  and  millions  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  talking  about  a  woman  who  had  cut  off  a  man's  penis.  What  did  I  think  of  that,  they  wanted  to  know.  &quot;So,  wild  man,  tell  us  about  Africa,&quot;  they  said  next.  &quot;Were  you  living  with  savages  or  what?&quot;  I  was  really  hungry,  eating  all  the  bread,  and  wondering  how  square  pieces  of  butter  had  fallen  into  my  dish  of  ex-  tra  ice.  I  wanted  to  order  food,  but  ev-  eryone  wanted  drinks  first,  because  we  were  celebrating.  The  big  guy  at  the  next  table  kept  laughing  through  his  nose.  Snorting,  re-  ally.  He  was  pink  and  puffy  and  swell-  ing  right  out  of  his  clothes.  His  laugh  sounded  like  a  holler  at  hog-killing  time.  He  had  jowls  that  cascaded  over  his  col-  lar.  I  heard  the  snorting  again  and  looked  over  at  him.  Suddenly,  every-  thing  was  breathing,  seething  with  too  much  light  and  texture.  The  carpeting,  hair,  and  artificial  plants  in  the  room  started  growing.  The  snorting  noise  came  from  a  pink  snout  in  the  middle  of  the  man's  face,  with  tufts  of  hair  bris-  tling  out  of  the  nostrils.  His  eyes  were  beady  and  veined  in  red,  set  close  to  the  snout.  He  picked  up  a  corncob  and  gnawed  on  it  furiously.  That's  when  I  noticed  the  pink  hooves.  They  were  sticking  right  out  of  the  sleeves  of  his  coat.  I  knew  he  couldn't  really  be  a  huge  pig  in  a  sports  coat  eating  corn  on  the  cob.  But  he  was!  A  huge  fucking  bush  pig,  just  like  the  ones  I  had  seen  in  Sierra  Leone,  and  that  set  me  off  on  shape-shifting-maybe  this  was  some  kind  of  freak  bush  creature  coming  at  me  from  the  outside,  the  way  they  do  in  Africa.  Or  maybe  someone  had  put  a  swear  on  me  before  I'd  left  my  village,  or  put  some  hallucinogenic  poison  in  my  rice  chop.  I  just  needed  an  explanation  for  the  visual  disturbances,  because  they  were  happening  all  around  me.  &quot;Somebody  said  your  country  was  invaded  by  cannibals.  Are  there  really  cannibals?&quot;  The  pig  grabbed  silverware  in  his  pink  hooves  and  sawed  off  a  piece  of  " b"86  meat,  stabbed  it  with  a  fork,  and  stuffed  it  into  his  mouth.  &quot;I  love  pork  tenderloin,&quot;  he  said.  I  tried  not  to  look  at  the  bush  pig  or  talk  about  anything  until  I  got  myself  under  control.  I  looked  at  another  table,  across  from  me  and  behind  my  girl-  friend.  The  candlelight  wasn't  very  good  over  there.  But  then  I  heard  squealing,  and  I  got  scared.  &quot;But  you  have  lost  weight!&quot;  It  was  a  woman's  voice  coming  out  of  a  lard-type  [REDACTED]  4368696e61  swine,  a  speckled  one  in  an  evening  gown.  She  had  a  collar  of  jewels  on.  &quot;You  have  lost  weight,&quot;  she  squealed  again.  &quot;I  told  you  that  when  I  first  saw  you!&quot;  &quot;I'm  heavier  than  I've  ever  been,&quot;  in-  sisted  her  companion,  pushing  aside  a  plate  heaped  with  bones,  gristle,  and  sauces.  Don't  ask.  Yes,  she  was  one,  too.  A  warthog  with  a  pair  of  bifocals  perched  on  her  snout.  Theirmates  were  hefty,  bacon-typemales  in  tailcoats.  My  teeth  chattered  because  of  the  air-conditioning.  Hair  grew  out  of  the  goosebumps  on  my  arms  and  formed  windrowson  my  limbs.  I  held  on  to  the  table,  rifling  my  mental  files,  desperately  searching  for  possible  causes  of  spontaneous  porcine  hallucinations.  A  pig  waiter  swept  through  the  crowd  with  a  dessert  tray.  A  wild  boar  in  a  turtleneck  waddled  unsteadily  among  the  tables  in  search  of  the  rest  room.  At  another  table,  four  bush  pigs  in  formal  attire  whispered  behind  their  hooves  and  shrugged,  then  sipped  from  globes  of  wineand  turned  their  atten-  tion  to  another  waiter,  who  bowed  and  politely  waited  for  the  attention  of  ev-  eryone  at  the  table.  &quot;I'll  take  just  a  moment  to  tell  you  about  this  evening's  off-the-menu  spe-  cials,&quot;  this  waiter  said.  &quot;First,  for  our  appetizers,  we  are  featuring  a  warm  potato-and-goat-cheese  terrine  with  baby  beets  and  spinach  greens,  Irish-  bacon  vinaigrette,  and  hog  headcheese.  We  also  have  a  pancetta-wrapped,  grilled  loin  of  suckling  pig  with  creamy  polenta  and  pignoli-tomato-and-basil    sauce.  Finally-a  personal  favorite  of  mine-we  have  rillettes  of  pork  with  or-  ganicarugula  salad,  plum  vinaigrette,  Gorgonzola,  walnuts,  and  prosciutto.&quot;  &quot;That's  mine,&quot;  a  malebush  pig  said  with  a  wobble  of  his  jowls.  &quot;I  can  eat  prosciutto  by  the  pound.&quot;  I  was  hoping  that  if  this  was  a  psy-  choticbreak,  some  kind  of  advisory  would  pass  across  the  bottom  of  my  screen.  The  waiter  wasn't  done  yet.  &quot;For  our  entr\xc3\xa9es  this  evening,  the  chef  recommends  Jamaican  jerk-marinated  and  grilled  tenderloin  of  pork  with  red  beans,  marjoram  corn,  tamarind  sauce,  and  fried  green  plantains.  We  are  also  offering  grilled  paillard  of  pork  loin  with  porcini  mushrooms,  smothered  in  a  roasted-shallot-rosemary-zinfandel  sauce,  and  accompanied  by  English  peas,  cumin  gnocchi,  and  bacon  gra-  tin.  We  also  have  medallions  of  pork  tenderloin  served  on  a  bed  of  sage  linguini,  black  beans,  chilis,  roasted  corn  and  peppers,  tomato,  cilantro,  and  an-  natto  oil.  Finally,  we  are  serving  pork  [REDACTED]  stuffed  with  foiegras,  truffles,  and  honey-orange-glazed  wild-  boar  sausage.&quot;  I  was  really,  really  hungry.  I  couldn't  find  any  crackers,  so  I  started  eyeballing  the  sugarbowl.  What  did  I  think  about  all  the  vio-  lence  here  in  [REDACTED],  they  wanted  to  know.  Had  I  been  reading  about  it?  At  another  table,  four  huge  Here-  fords  and  a  couple  of  Berkshire  swine  had  clearly  had  too  much  to  drink  and  were  laughing  riotously  at  each  other's  muzzy  attempts  to  order  desserts,  which  werebeing  displayed  on  a  tray  and  lovingly  described  by  an  officious  bush-  pig  waiter  with  a  stylish  hog  ring  in  his  snout  and  a  braided  pigtail.  He  spoke  with  a  lisp,  while  shifting  his  weight  and  fanning  the  air  with  his  free  hoof.  It  was  a  homosexual  pig.  I  mean,  a  gay  pig.  I  don't  want  to  offend  anyone.  In  Africa,  I'd  gotten  wind  of  how  sensi-  tive  people  here  are  becoming  about  lan-  guage.  You  have  to  be  very  careful  and  saythings  a  certain  precise  way,  unless  you  are  talking  about  a  woman  cutting  off  a  man's  penis.  MORE  tropical  storms  rumbled  through  my  hollow  bowels,  and  I  excused  myself  to  go  to  the  men's  room.  When  I  walked  by  the  kitchen,  a     " b"BUSH  PIGS  porker  in  a  white  apron  was  shovelling  platefuls  of  food  into  the  huge  steel  maw  of  a  garbage  disposal.  &quot;Hey!&quot;  I  cried.I  looked  around  the  place  for  somebody  to  help  me  notice  what  was  happening.  Plates  of  food  steamed  on  shelves.  Blocks  of  slotted  wood  bristled  with  butcher  knives  and  two-tined  forks,  bread  knives  and  meat  cleavers.  A  thicket  of  utensils  hung  from  the  ceiling  like  stainless-steel  vegetation.  The  sides  of  the  pass-through  were  studded  with  magnets  suspending  a  single  huge  carv-  ing  knife  as  if  in  midair.  It  looked  like  the  cutlasses  the  villagers  had  used  to  clear  their  farms.  A  big  Tamworth  boar  in  a  butcher's  apron  streaked  with  blood  smiled  at  me  and  waved.  &quot;Howdy,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully.  Behind  him,  a  skewered  shoat  ro-  tated  over  a  vented  broiler.  &quot;What?&quot;  said  the  porker  at  the  dis-  posal,  emptying  another  plateful  of  steak  down  the  drain.  &quot;Don't  throw  that  food  away,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  really,  really  hungry.  I  would  eat  that.  Really,  I  could.  I  bet  I  could  find  people  for  you  who  would  eat  that.&quot;  &quot;Fuckin'  A,&quot;  said  the  porker,  and  looked  over  his  shoulder.  I  decided  I  would  explain  it  all  to  him  afterI  explored  another  First  World  la-  trine.  This  time  the  toilet  paper  was  as  thick  as  linen,  and  it  had  designs  embossed  on  it.  I  knew  some  African  tailors  who  could  make  shirts  out  of  the  stuff.  There  were  pigs  in  the  stalls  next  to  me,  snorting  and  rooting,  stamping  their  hooves  and  making  water.  When  I  came  out,  the  porker  was  shovelling  more  platefuls  of  food  into  the  steel  drain.  &quot;Hey!&quot;  I  yelled.  &quot;Hey,  what?&quot;  somebody  said.  A  big  black  bush  pig  in  a  security  guard's  uniform  was  leaning  against  a  cigarette  machine.  &quot;Hey,  what?&quot;  he  said.  He  had  a  gun  in  a  holster.  He  kept  talking,  but  the  gun  scared  me  so  bad  I  couldn't  under-  stand  what  he  was  saying.  Wait!  What  am  I  saying?  He  was  not  a  black  pig.  He  was  a  colored  pig-I  mean,  a  pig  of  color.  Never  mind,  he  was  an  African-  556e6974656420537461746573n  pig.  I  was  having  trouble  be-  cause  he  was  not  speaking  Sierra  " b" Leonean  Krio,  and  I  knew  that  if  I  made  a  mistake  and  started  talking  Krio  to  him,  maybe  it  wouldn't  go  over  very  well.  I  hadn't  seen  a  gun  in  three  years.  Only  the  Liberians  had  had  guns.  The  only  guns  in  Sierra  Leone  were  carried  by  the  president's  special  forces  in  Freetown.  The  other  policemen  car-  ried  truncheons  for  beating  people.  Why  did  this  pig  have  a  gun?  Maybe  it  really  had  become  much  more  violent  here  since  I  had  left.  The  talk  at  the  table  was  a  warning.  Maybe  everybody  had  guns,  except  me.  Maybe  you  even  had  to  watch  out  in  restaurants.  Maybe  this  pig  would  use  this  gun  on  somebody  like  me,  who  was  having  trouble.  I  wanted  to  let  him  know  that  I  was  hav-  ing  visual  disturbances.  That  I  was  prob-  ably  very  sick,  or  somebody  had  put  a  swear  on  me,  or  poisoned  me;  just  let  him  know  that  it  was  my  first  night  back  and  parts  of  me  hadn't  finished  the  tripyet.  He  was  speaking  a  language  I  couldn't  understand.  And  I  noticed  that  the  little  leather  band  that  snaps  over  the  hammer  and  keeps  the  gun  in  the  hol-  ster  was  unfastened.  I  realized  that  the  security  pig  had  unsnapped  it  before  he  came  over  here,  because  he  knew  he  might  have  to  use  it  on  me.  This  pig  of  color  was  going  to  shoot  me!  WHEN  I  looked  up,  pigs  were  standing  in  a  chute  and  hol-  lering  at  me.  Back  in  the  kitchen  plates  offood  were  still  being  thrown  into  the  garbage  disposal.  More  pigslined  up,  staring  at  me  with  beady  eyes.  A  swear  had  followed  me  home  to  [REDACTED]!  I  was  afraid  that  if  I  moved,  the  African-  556e6974656420537461746573n  pig  would  charge,  just  the  way  bush  pigs  do,  in  which  case  I  would  need  an  ear  to  prove  my  innocence.  If  I  ran  away,  this  pig  would  think  I  was  prey.  He  trotted  over  and  took  me  by  the  arm.  Instead  of  running,  I  grabbed  the  carving  knife.  A  FACE  appears  at  the  little  rect-  angle  of  chicken-wired  glass  in  my  door.  &quot;We  are  coming  into  give  you  your  medication  and  assist  you  in  using  the  personal-hygiene  facility,&quot;  says  the  face's  mouth.  My  second  dose.  My  parents  and  my  girlfriend  have  hired  lawyers,  doctors,  and  psychiatrists,  who  will  be  paid  thou-  sands  of  dollars  to  clean  up  this  mess.  It  seems  there's  nothing  wrong  back  in  this  country  that  can't  be  explained  by  scrambled  brain  chemistry.  These  well-  groomed  professionals  don't  know  the  first  thing  about  pulling  the  swear  that  somebody  put  on  me;  instead  they  keep  chanting  something  that  sounds  like  &quot;post-automatic  hex  disorder,&quot;  which  the  medication  is  supposed  to  fix,  by  dipping  my  thoughts  in  mud  before  I  think  them.  The  door  opens  and  six  guys  fan  out  around  me,  some  pink,  others  black.  Faces  are  still  dangerously  volatile,  so  I  focus  on  the  linoleum  beneath  my  feet.  A  black  hand  and  a  paper  cup  of  green  liquid  move  into  my  peripheral  vision.  Voices  come  at  me  from  different  direc-  tions-a  geek  chorus  of  psychiatric  attendants.  &quot;You  can  use  the  personal-hygiene  facility  with  two  male  staff  in  atten-  dance,&quot;  says  one.  Time  passes.  A  throat  clears  in  a  low  giggle.  &quot;Seen  your  picture  in  the  paper,  man.  You  bad.&quot;  &quot;That  means  I'm  good,  right?&quot;  &quot;Too  good.  Took  sixty-eight  stitches  to  sew  that  cop's  ear  back  on.  Why  you  wanna  cut  offa  cop's  ear?&quot;  Another  one  says,  &quot;If  you  don't  use  the  facility  now,  you  will  not  be  able  to  use  it  for  another  hour.&quot;  &quot;Why'd  you  cut  that  cop,  dude?&quot;  Somebody  else  hisses,  &quot;Don't  get  him  going  again.&quot;  &quot;Your  lawyer  called  and  said  he  will  be  back  to  see  you  tomorrow,&quot;  one  says,  taking  the  cup  after  I  drink  the  green  stuff.  &quot;I  told  you  I  don't  want  a  lawyer,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;A  lawyer  can't  make  sense  of  this.  Only  God  can  make  sense  of  this.  I  told  you  to  get  me  a  priest.  I  want  a  Roman  Catholic  priest,  who  knows  about  Hell!&quot;  &quot;A  priest  is  coming  this  afternoon,&quot;  one  of  them  says.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  says  another.  &quot;We  got  you  a  priest.&quot;  They  walk  backward  out  the  door  and  lock  the  bolts.  They  call  this  &quot;the  quiet  room.&quot;  In  here  it's  perfectly  smooth  and  white.  No  surface  in  all  of  [REDACTED]  Africa  is  as  smooth  and  as  white  as  the  walls  of  this  room.  \xc2\xa2  "