THE  THRILL  IS  GONE  HAD  a  head-  ache.  I  was  in  my  favorite  place-  Nantucket,  Mass-  achusetts-but  my  head  ached  anyway.  I  was  glad  to  have  the  headache,  be-  cause  I'd  read  in  a  manual  of  natural  remedies  that  a  cure  for  a  headache  was  one  or  two  cups  of  black  coffee.  It  would  work  only  for  those  who  were  not  consumers  of  caffeine  on  a  regular  basis,  or  on  any  ba-  sis.  Having  quit  coffee  fifteen  years  be-  fore,  I  tried  the  remedy  this  year  and  found  that  it  worked.  Not  only  did  it  work,  but  I  rediscovered  the  fun  of  caffeine  and  often  found  myself  wonder-  ing  hopefully  if  any  little  twinge  was  a  headache  coming  on.  On  this  day,  I  layin  bed  for  a  while  trying  to  decide  whether  to  drink  black  coffee  or  to  take  three  Tylenol  tablets.  It  wasn't  a  good  thing  to  wake  up  with  a  headache,  but  I'd  read  in  a  different  manual  that  certain  headaches  were  caused  by  natural  progesterone  occur-  ring  normally  in  the  cycles  of  women  of  childbearing  age.  It  was  either  the  progesterone  surge  orthe  sudden  progesterone  drop-off,  I  couldn't  remember  which.  I  had  asked  the  world-renowned  reproductive  surgeon,  Dr.  Arnold  Loquesto,  whom  I'd  con-  sulted  and  photographed,  and  he  said,  &quot;Ask  Edwards.  He  published  a  whole  paperabout  it.&quot;  &quot;But  what  does  it  say  is  the  cause?&quot;  &quot;How  should  I  know?  I  don't  even  believe  in  it!&quot;  he  yelled.  Then  he  ran  off  to  an  operating  room,  or  a  conference  in  [REDACTED].  As  I  lay  in  bed  with  a  deep  pound-  ing  in  the  right  side  of  my  head,  I  lookedout  at  the  garden  of  our  rented  house,  a  garden  still  in  full  bloom,  even  though  it  was  August-the  month  that  was  often  given  as  a  reason  gardens  were  no  longer  in  bloom-and  I  remembered  with  self-loathing  the  character  Ob-     BY  JULIE  HECHT  lomov.  I  compared  my  lying  in  bedand  looking  at  the  garden,  the  quince  tree,  bumblebees,  white  butterflies,  and  chirping  birds  while  trying  to  decide  be-  tween  a  caffeine  fix  and  a  pharmaceuti-  cal  one,  with  the  lying  in  bed  of  Ob-  lomov.  I  felt  myself  to  be  a  wastrel  and  my  life  to  have  been  wasted.  My  adult  life,  anyway.  In  my  childhood,  I  might  have  worked  harder  and  been  more  worthwhile.  Certainly,  I  looked  better  andwas  cuter.  I  tried  to  think  of  my  contribution  to  society,  family,  or  com-  munity.  I  compared  myself  with  Hillary  Clinton.  Even  though  she  was  not  as  admired  as  Jacqueline  Kennedy-I  al-  ways  compared  myself  unfavorably  with  her,  too-I  saw  that  Hillary  had  worked  harder  in  college  than  I  had.  Then  she  worked  hard  in  law  school,  and  as  a  liti-  gation  partner  at  her  law  firm,  and  at  looking  so  well-groomed  and  alert  ever  since  that  bus  tour  through  the  hot  countryside.  I  bet  she  had  some  coffee  every  day.  Sometimes  I  compared  myself  with  Princess  Diana,  and  even  there  I  didn't  do  well.  Actually,  I  had  the  most  in  common  with  her,  being  a  vegetarian,  but-the  lucky  Princess-her  husband  was  one,  too,  whereas  mine  liked  to  or-  der  little  ducks  and  livers  and  eat  them  in  front  of  me.  That,  and  a  fear  of  gain-  ing  weight-I'd  read  in  Star  that  ser-  vants  had  found  thePrincess  in  the  kitchen  one  night  wolfing  down  an  en-  tire  meat  pie.  I  knew  that  this  couldn't  be  entirely  true,  since  she  would  have  been  wolfing  down  some  other  kind  of  pie,  under  the  compulsion  to  do  some  midnight  eating.  With  these  thoughts  never  far  from  my  mind-these,  plus  the  comparisons  with  women,  couples,  and  happy  fami-  lies  I  saw  on  television  commercials-I  found  it  hard  to  get  out  of  bed.  Bed-  what  could  be  a  more  pleasant  place  to  be?  I  got  up.  I  opened  the  French  doors  to  the  garden  and  breathed  the  air,  and  I  realized  that  outside  would  be  a  better  place  to  be-right  in  the  perennial  bor-  der,  deadheading  lavender  and  rose  blos-  soms,  with  the  bees  buzzing  and  the  butterflies  floating  and  the  birds  chirp-  ing  all  around  me.  But  before  I  could  get  out  into  that  garden  I  had  to  get  rid  of  the  headache.  I  looked  at  my  bottle  of  Tylenol  and  then  thought  of  the  cups  of  black  coffee.  Both  choices  seemed  wrong.  I  had  taken  too  much  Tylenol  in  my  life,  for  dental  procedures  and  female  complaints.  It  didn't  work  for  either  but  was  a  neces-  sary  first  step  on  the  road  to  the  hard  stuff  of  codeine  and  ibuprofen.  I  pic-  tured  my  liver-what  it  might  look  like  from  processing  the  number  of  medica-  tions  it  had  been  served  up-and  then  I  pictured  my  circulatory  system,  my  blood  vessels  dilating  and  contracting  from  the  caffeine  they'd  been  forced  to  take  in.  Immediately,  I  saw  that  my  liver  looked  worse.  I'd  go  for  the  caffeine.  But  I  found  that  I  didn't  have  any  left  because  my  last  two  headaches  had  used  up  the  small  amount  of  organically  grown  coffee  beans  I  kept  in  the  freezer  for  medicinal  purposes.  Most  people  don't  know  that  coffee  beans  are  one  of  the  most  heavily  sprayed  crops,  just  as  the  makers  of  Pepperidge  Farm  cookies  and  Cape  Cod  Potato  Chips  don't  know  that  cottonseed  oil  has  the  most  pesti-  cide  residue  of  any  cooking  oil,  since  the  cotton  bolls  are  not  subject  to  food-crop  rules  and  are  sprayed  heavily  for  the  cot-  ton  crop.  And  I'd  had  such  pleasant  memories  of  the  boll  weevil  since  being  forced  to  sing  in  sixth-grade  assembly  a  cheerful  song  called  &quot;De  Boll  Weevil,&quot;  after  reciting  the  Lord's  Prayer.  I  took  a  shower  and  dressed  myself  just  to  the  point  of  decency  for  being  seen  buying  coffee  beans.  I  wondered  whether  I  should  put  on  some  mascara,  after  recently  having  heard  Coco  Chanel  say  in  a  filmed  interview  that  women  had  to  dress  well,  even  when  going  to  the  grocery  store,  because  they  owed  it  to  society,  and  also  because  any  day,  any  time,  might  be  their  date  with  destiny-  the  moment  they  could  meet  that  spe-  cial  man.  The  special-man  part-screw  that,  But  owing  it  to  society  made  sense.  y  GOWs  ps  &amp;  FIL  My  cruelty-free  cosmetics  were  in  the  upstairs  bathroom.  The  downstairs  bathrooms  had  been  designed  by  an  ar-  chitect  who  specialized  in  designing  prisons  and  were  too  small  to  keep  any  cosmetics  in  and  too  dark  to  see  to  put  them  on.  I  forced  myself  to  go  up  the  steep  staircase  at  the  other  end  of  the  house  to  the  sweltering  upstairs  bath-  room,  which  had  no  insulation  and  was  too  hot  to  stay  in  even  to  put  on  a  small  amount  of  makeup.  I  wet  my  face  and  quickly  put  some  Vegelatum-a  nonpe-  troleum  jelly-on  my  skin,  because  I'd  read  in  afashion  magazine  a  list  of  com-  mandments  which  included  &quot;Never  wash  your  face  without  moisturizing  im-  mediately.&quot;  If  only  there  were  a  way  to  put  on  a  little  makeup  without  having  to  see  your  face,I  was  thinking  as  I  tried  to  gear  up  for  the  task.  My  eyelids  were  still  puffy,  even  though  I'd  given  up  taking  Xanax  for  in-  somnia  and  switched  over  to  valerian-  root  tincture.  Maybe  it  was  because  I  took  twice  the  recommended  dose  after  reading  &quot;ten  to  twenty  drops,  or  as  needed.&quot;  This  must  have  been  what  Marilyn  Monroe's  and  Elvis  Presley's  lives  were  like:  &quot;Downers  to  sleep  and  uppers  to  wake,&quot;  I'd  read.  At  least  I  had  never  smoked  marijuana,  and  this  was  always  on  my  mind  because  of  the  last  Presidential  campaign.  I  was  planning  to  wear  sunglasses  with  darker  clip-ons  on  top  of  them,  so  why  did  I  need  the  mascara,  I  asked  my-  self.  In  case  someone  could  see  through  the  lenses  when  I  removed  the  clip-ons  in  order  to  pay  for  the  coffee  beans.  That  special  someone.  The  two  specials  I  had  ever  hoped  to  meet-Elvis  Presley  and  President  Kennedy-were  both  dead,  although  I  saw  headlines  about  both  being  alive  whenever  I  passed  the  magazine  rack  in  the  supermarket.  It  was  more  likely  that  I'd  see  Ted  Kennedy,  since  sightings  of  him  were  reported  at  the  farm  where  we  bought  tomatoes  and  corn  every  day.  One  after-  noon,  I'd  heard  the  farmer  tell  his  wife  that  he'd  seen  Ted  at  the  pizzeria  the  night  before  and  that  he  was  barefoot.  So  if  Ted  Kennedy  was  barefoot,  overweight,  and  sun-damaged,  not  to  mention  the  condition  of  his  liver,  why  did  I  need  to  dress  decently  and  put  on  mascara  to  buy  coffee  beans?  Because  of  the  failure  of  the  feminist  movement,  I  figured  as  I  separated  my  lashes  with  a  tiny  steel  comb.  In  fact,  I  wasn't  dressed  decently,  since  the  hem  on  my  skirt  was  coming  down  and  I  hadn't  bothered  even  to  pin  it  up.  The  week  before,  I'd  put  a  paper  clip  on  the  hem,  but  on  this  hot  morning  I  didn't  have  the  energy  to  look  for  a  paper  clip.  I  didn't  have  the  psychic  energy  to  do  anything  anymore-  I  had  to  force  myself  to  do  my  once  fa-  vorite  things,  like  going  to  Nantucket  at  all  that  summer.  The  thrill  was  gone.  I  tried  to  remember  which  poem  the  line  &quot;My  heart  leaps  up&quot;  came  from,  because  I  realized  that  my  heart  no  longer  leapt  up.  Instead  I  thought  of  my  second-grade  teacher,  Miss  Wagstaff,  an  overweight,  elderly  spinster  with  dyed  red  hair  cut  in  a  Buster  Brown  style,  and  a  face  like  his  dog,  Tige,  but  powdered  white,  with  pink  rouge  in  the  wrong  places.  She'd  worn  a  gray  jacket  every  day  of  the  school  week,  and  the  elbows  of  the  jacket  were  frayed  away  to  noth-  ing.  One  day,  during  rest  period,  when  we  were  supposed  to  be  resting  or  read-  ing,  I  noticed  her  taking  off  her  jacket.  She  went  to  a  closet  and  took  out  a  box.  Then  she  spread  the  jacket  across  her  desk  and  opened  the  box.  She  took  out  scissors  and  thread.  We  began  to  whis-  per  to  each  other,  &quot;Miss  Wagstaff  is  sewing  her  jacket!&quot;  Then  she  took  outa  roll  of  Scotch  Tape  and  began  to  tape  the  worn  part  of  the  sleeve.  (And  this  was  the  era  before  matte-finish  tape  was  invented.)  One  piece  this  way,  another  that  way-maybe  four  or  five  pieces  un-  til  the  job  was  done.  When  I  told  my  parents  what  had  happened,  they  didn't  believe  the  story,  and  even  though  Miss  Wagstaff  was  not  a  fit  teacher  in  any  other  way,  they  allowed  me  to  remain  in  that  public  school.  I  thought  that  my  public-school  background  was  one  rea-  son  Hillary  Clinton  and  Jacqueline  Kennedy  and  Princess  Diana  had  achieved  more  than  I  had  and  were  bet-  ter  groomed  than  I  was.  On  the  other  hand,  my  loss  of  enthu-  siasm  for  everything  could  have  been  due  to  other  factors.  I'd  recently  heard  David  Letterman  ask  B.B.  King  to  sing  'The  Thrill  Is  Gone.&quot;  The  discontented  wit  said  that  he  personally  understood  what  it  meant.  Perhaps  the  feeling  had  nothing  to  do  with  an  inferior  public-  school  background  but  with  that  other  thing-the  over-forty  sense  of  various  problems  and  disappointments  people  feel  before  getting  into  the  next  phase  of  65  life,  where  they're  just  glad  to  be  alive  after  having  »~cepted  the  loss  of  youth  and  the  hope  that  any  of  their  dreams  for  the  world  might  come  true.  &quot;Just  look  around  at  your  own  community-  the  overdevelopment  of  cities  and  land  in  the  last  ten  years,&quot;  I'd  heard  someone  say  in  an  environmental  minute  on  tele-  vision.  Was  it  Robert  Redford  or  Paul  Newman  speaking?  I  couldn't  remember,  but  whoever  it  was,  he  didn't  tell  any-  thing  you  could  do  about  it.  Maybe  it  was  Paul  Newman,  since  I  remembered  my  husband  giving  theexcuse  for  buy-  ingPaul  Newman  popcorn  kernels,  in-  stead  of  Orville  Redenbacher,  &quot;He  gives  away  the  money  to  charities  you  like.&quot;  OPENED  the  front  door.  Outside,  it  was  that  time  of  hot,  empty  stillness  I  dreaded  each  day.  No  one  was  any-  where  to  be  seen.  All  the  normal,  healthy  people  of  this  Nantucket  neigh-  borhood  had  done  their  early-morning  errands  and  now  were  off  doing  some-  thing  worthwhile  and  probably  aerobic.  This  hot,  lonely  time  lasted  from  noon  to  five  each  day.  I  would  be  the  only  one  in  the  neighborhood  stumbling  out  a  rose-covered  doorway  into  highnoon,  and  it  reminded  me  of  high  noon  in  that  movie  whenever  I  had  to  face  a  show-  down  with  the  sun.  I'd  left  the  car  windows  open  all  night  so  that  it  wouldn't  be  too  hot  in-  side.  I  turned  the  air-conditioner  on  and  pulled  out  of  the  crushed-seashell  drive-  way.  But  I  kept  the  windows  open,  and  I  recalled  the  scorn  Dr.  Loquesto  had  for  driving  with  air-conditioning  on  and  windows  open.  He  said  his  mother  used  the  same  system  in  her  house,  and  it  made  him  really  mad  when  he  saw  it.  But  on  the  one  occasion  I  went  to  pho-  tograph  her  for  my  series  of  photographs  of  mothers  of  reproductive  surgeons,  I  found  that  she  had  the  heat  on  and  the  windows  closed  when  the  temperature  outside  was  seventy-five  degrees.  Anything  could  happen  on  the  road  to  the  coffee  store.  And  whateverhap-  pened  to  me  I  would  deserve  for  driv-  ing  to  a  place  I  should  have  biked  to  be-  fore  the  sun  was  so  high  and  so  hot.  But  I  put  my  seatbelt  on  anyway,  still  hav-  ing  the  will  to  live  and  also  to  avoid  en-  counters  with  plastic  surgeons  in  the  Nantucket  Cottage  Hospital  emergency  room.  I'd  once  seen  a  general  surgeon  in  the  Finast  parking  lot.  He  looked  more  66  like  an  eagle  than  a  human  except  forhis  horn-rimmed  eyeglass  frames.  His  khaki  trousers  were  rolled  up  to  the  knees,  and  in  each  hand  he  carried  a  ten-pound  plastic  bag  of  Italian  plums.  I  remem-  bered  being  told  by  a  doctor  that  the  normal  uterus  is  the  size  of  asmall  plum.  When  I  asked  Dr.  Loquesto  if  this  was  correct,  he  said,  &quot;No,  it's  the  size  ofan  orange.  A  mandarin  orange.  Not  a  na-  vel  orange.  A  juice  orange.&quot;  &quot;What  about  those  round  red  plums?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  don't  know  anything  about  plums,&quot;  he  said.  So  I  never  found  out  the  answer.  But  even  when  teachingor  trying  to  learn  uterine  surgery,  the  Nantucket  sur-  geon  couldn't  have  needed  that  many  plums.  Another  time,  I  saw  him  stand-  ing  on  a  floral-patterned  hooked  rug  in  the  hospital  lobby-this  time  in  rolled-  up  pants,  with  gardening  dirt  all  over  the  knees  and  bits  of  earth  under  his  fingernails.  When  I  asked  some  friends  about  his  appearance-some  friends  who  used  his  servicesas  an  obstetrician,  since  there  wasnone  on  the  island-  they  said  that  he  liked  to  bake,  and  gar-  den,  too.  I'd  also  been  told  that  a  neighbor-  hood  man  had  no  digestive  system  left  andhad  to  live  on  intravenous  nourish-  ment  because  one  stormy,  foggy  winter  night  many  years  ago  he  couldn't  be  flown  to  [REDACTED]  and  was  operated  on  in  Nantucket,  where  a  surgeon  felt  it  best  to  remove  several  feet  of  everything.  &quot;You're  right  near  [REDACTED]!&quot;  Dr.  Loquesto  would  shout  whenever  I  asked  him  what  if  this  or  that  happened  while  I  was  un-  der  his  care.  He  never  had  the  fog  on  his  mind.  &quot;Fog!  Very  romantic!&quot;  he'd  yell  if  I  tried  to  explain  the  weather  conditions.  I  knew  the  man  without  any  diges-  tive  system  from  the  time  he'd  walked  around  our  corner  one  day  and  spoken  to  me  for  five  minutes.  There  was  noth-  ing  unusual-looking  about  him  except  his  outfit-brand-new-looking  bluejeans  and  bluejean  jacket.  A  white-haired  seventy-year-old  man  in  a  new  bluejean  outfit  looked  odd.  Otherwise  he  was  the  picture  of  health.  &quot;He  looks  fine  to  me,&quot;  I  saidto  a  seventy-five-year-old  neigh-  bor,  who'd  told  me  about  the  surgery.  &quot;That's  because  you  didn't  see  him  be-  fore,&quot;  my  neighbor  said.  As  I  drove  to  the  coffee-bean  store  that  hot  morning  nearing  noon,  I  thoughtof  the  other  neighborhood  men  from  that  generation  and  of  things  they  had  said  to  me  during  other  summers.  One  of  these  men  also  had  white  hair  but  more  correct  trousers,  Nantucket  reds-not  correct-looking  to  me.  They  were  more  like  pants  a  doll  would  wear.  He  was  discussing  the  fine  day  with  me  when  I  had  the  courage  to  ask  him  where  he'd  purchased  his  eyeglass  frames-the  kind  of  clear  plastic  Socialist-style  frames  my  husband  was  alwaysbreak-  ing.  &quot;In  New  Yorlk-a  place  on  Madi-  son  Avenue,&quot;  he  said.  He  suddenly  be-  came  enlivened  by  the  memory  of  his  purchasing  experience  as  he  said,  &quot;A  bouncy  Jewish  girl  sold  them  to  me.&quot;  I  tried  to  remove  all  expression  from  my  face,  to  prevent  him  from  telling  more,  but  he  continued.  &quot;I  was  planning  on  getting  a  pair  like  my  old  horn-rimmed  ones  when  this  bouncy  Jewish  salesgirl  said  she  thought  these  would  look  good.&quot;  (When  I  mentioned  the  incident  to  a  friend  who  specializes  in  the  inter-  pretation  of  anti-Semitic  slurs,  she  said  that  the  man  was  probably  in  a  state  of  sexual  excitation  at  the  time  he  bought  the  frames.)  I  remembered  standing  in  thelane  in  the  sun,  listening  to  him  and  beginning  to  feel  ill  from  his  description  and  its  implication  of  how  much  anti-  Semitism  there  was  in  the  world,  in  ad-  dition  to  all  the  other  hatreds,  evils,  wars,  and  destruction.  From  that,  and  from  the  heat  of  the  rays  of  the  sun  without  the  protection  of  the  giant  elms  that  the  early  settlers  and  whaling  cap-  tains  had  cut  down.  After  a  while  the  man  changed  the  adjective  from  &quot;bouncy&quot;  to  &quot;vivacious,&quot;  and  went  on  his  way.  He  was  quickly  distracted  by  another  neighborhood  man,  who  waved  to  him  from  across  the  lane.  I  recognized  this  one  from  his  small,  round,  horn-rimmed  frames,  his  white  hair-which  he  wore  parted  in  the  middle-and  his  clean  yel-  low  polo  shirt  and  red-plaid  Bermuda  shorts.  He  had  with  him  a  small  dog  that  looked  just  like  him  except  for  the  hair  and  outfit.  When  he  stopped,  his  little  dog  sat  down  and  waited  patiently  while  the  man  told  me  what  a  good  year  it  was  for  beach  plums  and  even  told  me  his  source  of  the  plentiful  crop.  &quot;It's  a  kind  of  sickness,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;When-  ever  you  see  them  you  have  to  pick  them.&quot;  I  agreed.  He  said  that  every  day  he  brought  some  home  and  boiled  them  up  until  he  had  enough  juice  for  jelly.  I  asked  if  he  ever  kept  them  in  the  refrig-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  15,  1994  erator  until  he  had  one  big  batch,  but  he  said,  Hell  no,  he  boiled  up  a  batch  each  day.  I  thought  of  the  many  sacks  of  beach  plums  I  kept  in  the  refrigerator,  dreading  the  &quot;picking  over&quot;  step  of  the  jelly-making  process.  Then  I  had  so  many  plums  that  it  took  me  four  hours  to  separate  them,  trying  to  discard  the  imperfect  ones,  as  I'd  seen  in  a  fraudu-  lent  commercial  about  some  corporate  jelly-maker's  method  of  making  grape  jelly.  Every  summer  after  that,  as  the  re-  frigerator  filled  up  with  beach  plums,  I  had  the  memory  of  this  man's  puritan  jelly-making  ethic  to  compare  with  my  own  method.  HE  route  to  the  coffee-bean  store  was  tricky.  If  you  weren't  paying  attention,  you'd  miss  the  correct  street  to  turn  down-the  only  one  that  didn't  have  a  &quot;One  Way&quot;  sign.  Then  you'd  find  a  maze  where  you'd  be  trapped  into  drivinga  few  miles  to  find  a  two-way  street.  During  this  ride,  my  headache  would  be  getting  worse,  with  the  sun  beating  in  on  all  sides  of  the  car.  It  was  illegal  to  tint  a  windshield,  and  Dr.  Loquesto's  youngest  son  had  advised  me  not  to  tint  the  windows  too  dark,  be-  cause  the  car  would  look  like  a  drug  dealer's  car.  Even  though  I'd  never  seen  a  drug  dealer  in  a  Volvo  station  wagon,  I  took  his  advice.  In  the  tiny  parking  lot  at  the  coffee-  bean  store  I  found  a  parking  spot  under-  neath  a  shady  tree.I  put  on  my  sun  hat  for  the  trip  from  the  tree  across  the  lot  and  up  the  steps  to  the  store.  As  usual,  there  wasone  college-age  carpenter  or  another  talking  to  the  college-girl  clerks.  I  didn't  want  to  interrupt  and  ruin  the  fun  and  high  expectations  of  their  en-  counters.  I  looked  over  at  the  periodical  rack.  I  hoped  that  I  wouldn't  see  any-  thing  too  interesting.  Deliveries  of  new  magazines  were  delayed  by  the  early-  morning  fog,  so  I'd  already  read  every-  thing.  But  I  wanted  to  avoida  repeat  of  the  experience  where  I'd  spent  fif-  teen  minutes  standing  in  this  store,  with  a  headache,  while  reading  an  article  about  erotomania  in  S¢ar.  Dr.  Loquesto  had  mentioned  that  he  was  being  pur-  sued  by  some  erotomaniacs.  A  colleague  of  his  told  me,  &quot;He's  the  type  who  gets  the  erotomaniacs  because  of  all  his  power.&quot;  But  I  couldn't  believe  it,  having  once  seen  on  the  Discovery  Channel  a  strange-looking  bear  that  looked  exactly  THE  THRILL  IS  GONE  like  the  powerful  surgeon.  Still,  I  had  read  the  entire  article  with  my  head  pounding  and  the  sound  of  the  back-  ground  conversations:  &quot;I'm  like,  'Should  I  go  windsurfing  or  should  I  go  roller-  blading&quot;  &quot;  When  the  series  of  carpenters  had  left  with  their  cups  of  coffee  and  un-  healthful  snacks-red  cherry  bread  with  blueberry  cream  cheese  was  one-the  cashier  told  me  that  they  were  out  of  or-  ganically  grown  beans.  I  paid  for  the  Times,  and  she  directed  me  to  the  health-food  store  downtown.  I  could  see  that  I  would  be  spending  most  of  the  day  on  these  coffee  beans,  because  I  knew  that  the  health-food  store  had  no  grinder.  That  meant  a  trip  to  the  gour-  met  store  down  the  block  to  ask  if  they  would  mind  grinding  beans  purchased  elsewhere.  It  took  me  an  hour  to  getthe  beans  and  have  them  ground.  A  sixteen-year-  old  boy  with  an  earring  was  the  sales-  man  at  the  health-food  store.  He  was  advising  an  eighteen-year-old  boy  with  a  backpack  about  which  soy  milk  to  buy.  They  were  reading  the  labels  carefully,  with  the  older  boy  pointing  out  that  his  brand  had  only  one  per  cent  fat  and  ten  fewer  calories  per  glass  than  the  others.  Neither  of  them  liked  the  nondairy  bev-  erage  Rice  Dream,  even  though  it  was  made  from  brown  rice.  On  my  way  home  I  memorized  the  locations  of  some  lanes  with  light-pink  and  light-peach  hollyhocks,  for  my  planned  seed  gathering  in  September.  But  after  a  while  I  saw  so  many  holly-  hocks,  some  planted  in  the  wrong  places,  that  I  began  to  wonder  whether  they  were  a  good  idea  after  all.  I  turned  in  to  our  lane.  The  car  smelled  from  the  ground-up,  organically  grown  coffee  beans.  I  took  the  bag  of  ground  beans  and  the  Times  and  stepped  out  into  the  sun.  Then  I  heard  my  name  be-  ing  called.  Who  knew  my  name  in  the  little  neighborhood  and  would  call  it  out  in  such  a  friendly  way?  I  looked  across  the  field  and  saw  that  it  was  a  neighbor.  She  was  descended  from  a  branch  of  the  English  and  Scotch-Irish  aristocracy.  I  hadn't  known  we  were  back  on  speak-  ing  terms  since  the  time  she'd  misinter-  preted  a  complimentary  remark  I'd  made  about  the  renovation  of  her  three-  hundred-year-old  house.  The  truth  was  that  people  in  the  beautiful  little  neighborhood  hated  each  other.  They  were  on  guard,  as  in  a  duel-the  way  we  thought  in  childhood  that  duellers  said  to  each  other  before  drawing  swords,  &quot;On  guard!&quot;  &quot;I  just  love  this  neighborhood,&quot;  we'd  all  say  to  one  another.  The  women  would  say  that.  Each  man  had  a  reason  he'd  just  as  soon  live  on  the  cliff,  near  the  sea,  or  on  the  moors.  I  pointed  out  to  my  husband  that  most  of  the  women  had  had  a  tiny  bit  of  plastic  surgery  and  looked  much  bet-  ter  because  of  it.  It  proved  how  preva-  lent  the  surgery  was  getting  to  be.  The  only  one  who'd  had  more  than  a  bit  was  eighty-three-she'd  had  a  great  deal,  plus  some  special  vitamin-and-herb  in-  jections  at  clinics  in  [REDACTED]-and  she  looked  best  of  all.  Or  maybe  her  face  was  just  temporarily  pinned  up  to  her  scalp  with  paper  clips  and  Scotch  Tape,  since  she  always  wore  a  wig,  and  who  knew  what  went  on  under  the  wig?  This  was  a  use  of  wigs  I'd  read  about  in  a  fashion  magazine.  But  it  turnedout  that  the  neighbor  was  speaking  to  me  only  to  inquire  about  another  neighbor.  She  sure  looked  great-I  couldn't  help  noticing,  and  I  told  her  so.  &quot;You  do,  too,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  losing  the  whole  thing.  But  you'll  always  look  good.  You  have  bone  structure.&quot;  She  touched  her  bone  structure  and  said,  &quot;I  hope  it  holds  up.  It's  all  I  have.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  it  will.  Bones  don't  fall  in.&quot;  I'd  never  heard  of  osteoporosis  of  the  jaw  or  cheekbones,  and  Freud  was  the  only  one  I  knew  of  who'd  had  a  se-  rious  jawbone  disease.  This  woman  was  into  the  decade  after  the  forties  but  still  looked  better  than  I  did.  Her  eyes  were  bluer  than  mine-they  were  that  light,  anti-Semitic  blue-and  her  cheeks  were  that  rosy,  anti-Semitic  pink.  Probably  she'd  been  playing  tennis  all  morning.  &quot;I'm  off  for  my  swim,&quot;  she  said,  explain-  ing  a  heavy  white  towel  around  her  neck,  which  I  didn't  see  how  she  could  bear  in  the  hot  sun.  Her  posture  was  perfect,  and  her  teeth  were  white  and  &quot;4  ies  *s  -/-  rly  21  (  s  f‘ﬁu}1{“qs‘°‘f  &amp;  [294.71  67  perfect,  too.  I  pictured  her  swimming  hard  back  and  forth.  That  must  have  been  how  she  kept  that  excellent  muscle  tone  and  circulatory  glow.  When  the  conversation  was  over  I  was  going  to  look  at  her  legs.  She  was  in  her  bathing  suit,  so  it  would  be  easy  to  do.  I  was  careful  not  to  ask  about  her  husband,  because  no  one  had  informed  me  that  summer  whether  he  was  still  alive.  &quot;Where  is  he?&quot;  and  &quot;Is  he  still  alive?&quot;  were  two  questions  that  occurred  to  peo-  ple  every  year.  To  consider  either  question  was  toface  the  passage  of  time.  I  wanted  to  avoid  that.  Because  when  I  had  first  spoken  to  the  husband  everything  was  more  fun  for  all  of  us.  I'd  heard  all  about  him  and  her.  She  was  in  her  forties  and  he  was  in  his  seventies.  He  was  a  tall  and  handsome  member  of  the  landed  gentry.  &quot;He  had  land  deeded  to  him  by  the  king  of  England  in  the  sixteen-hundreds&quot;  was  something  people  liked  to  say  about  him.  He'd  been  married  a  few  times.  He  had  children  in  their  forties.  Then,  at  some  point,  he  and  the  woman  got  mar-  ried  and  had  twin  girls.  One  year,  before  I'd  ever  seen  the  hus-  band,  I  spoke  to  him  on  the  phone  about  renting  their  guest  cottage.  In  discuss-  ing  the  number  of  bedrooms,  he  asked,  &quot;Do  you  have  children?&quot;  and  I  said,  &quot;No,  I'm  going  to  wait  until  I'm  forty.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  don't  do  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'll  have  to  have  your  tubes  blown  and  all.  It's  no  fun.&quot;  He  went  on  to  repeat  his  age  and  that  of  his  blue-eyed  wife,  and  to  men-  tion  various  medical  procedures  they'd  gone  through  in  attempting  to  have  a  child.  And  all  I  wanted  was  to  rent  their  little  guest  cottage.  The  blowing  of  the  tubes  was  something  I  was  trying  to  get  off  my  mind  as  he  finished  the  story's  happy  ending.  Luckily,  I  never  met  the  man  after  the  conversation  but  just  saw  him  from  a  distance.  My  husband  would  comment  on  the  man's  handsomeness,  saying  that  he  looked  like  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  or  Howard  Hughes.  It  turnedout  that  the  man  was  still  alive  and  was  staying  in  their  home  in  another  historic  part  of  [REDACTED],  maybe  on  the  land  the  king  had  deeded  to  him.  He  had  around-the-clock  care,  but  his  wife  had  to  be  in  Nantucket  for  the  sake  of  the  twin  girls.  As  I  was  imagining  the  situation,  my  neighbor  said,  &quot;But  they  miss  their  father.&quot;  I  re-  membered  seeing  the  little  girls  tackling  68  the  man  around  his  handsome  head  eight  years  before.  Now  his  condition  was  not  that  good,  she  said.  She  described  his  symp-  toms  of  confusion  and  memory  loss.  &quot;Then  there's  the  sleeping,&quot;  she  said.  I  thought  of  my  father  and  his  symp-  toms.  The  symptoms  sounded  the  same.  «&quot;Sleeping-is  that  a  sign?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Ob,  yes.  You  have  to  watch  for  that.  That's  a  sign.  That's  what  we  had.  sleep,  sleep.  I'd  find  him  sleeping  in  the  garden.&quot;  It  didn't  sound  that  bad  to  me.  Es-  pecially  the  way  she  said  the  words.  She  had  so  much  expression  in  her  voice  as  she  explained  the  symptoms  and  re-  peated  the  word  &quot;sleep.&quot;  She  had  a  cer-  tain  rhythm  with  the  words-it  sounded  in  between  Dylan  Thomas  and  James  Joyce.  Sometimes  everything  the  Irish  said  sounded  like  a  poem.  I  was  thinking  that  it  was  too  bad  that  the  people  we  met  on  our  lanes  in  our  neighborhoods  spoke  with  so  much  feeling  in  their  voices,  while  a  number  of  actresses  who  starred  in  films  had  no  feeling  at  all  in  theirs.  &quot;Yes,  we'd  find  him  lying  down  and  sleeping  in  the  garden.  That  was  it.  Yes-sleep,  sleep,  sleep  in  the  garden.&quot;  I  tried  to  imagine  the  garden.  Did  it  have  arose-covered  arbor?  Was  there  wisteria  growing  over  the  garden  gate?  Were  there  peach  and  pink  hollyhocks  planted  alongside  the  white  fence?  Or  was  it  all  green,  just  a  big,  all-green  garden  of  grass,  evergreens,  moss,  and  ferns?  An  all-green  garden  sounded  like  a  better  place  to  sleep  than  one  filled  with  flower  beds,  even  if  the  flowers  were  light  colors,  or  all  white.  The  colors  and  shapes  of  the  flowers  might  be  a  distraction  from  lying  down  and  sleeping.  You'd  be  wanting  to  keep  your  eyes  open  for  one  more  look.  The  man  was  tall.  I  pictured  him  lying  down  and  folding  himself  up  in  the  garden  to  sleep.  He  seemed  happy  there.  But  then  I  pictured  my  father,  old  and  alone,  folding  himself  into  the  same  position  and  sleeping  in  his  bed  at  night.  This  was  something  I  thought  about  at  night  when  I  tried  to  fall  asleep.  It  would  keep  me  awake  for  a  while  or  most  of  the  night.  The  sight  of  my  neighbor  standing  in  the  hot  sunwith  the  heavy  towel  around  her  neck  took  my  mind  off  my  own     problems  and  made  me  wish  she'd  leave  for  her  long  swim.  &quot;You  must  come  by  and  see  the  house  when  I've  got  it  together,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  it's  beautiful,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  looks  good  from  the  outside.&quot;  I  knew  the  house  was  crooked  and  had  wide,  crooked,  seventeenth-century  floorboards.  I  hoped  they'd  left  it  that  way.  I  hoped  it  was  as  crooked  as  when  I'd  first  been  inside  it.  Then  she  waved  goodbye  and  took  off.  I  remembered  to  look  at  her  legs.  They  looked  like  the  legs  of  a  very  young  woman.  Everything  was  in  place,  and  I  knew  that  there  was  no  way  to  pull  up  leg  skin  and  muscle  with  clips  ortape  under  a  bathing  suit,  even  though  I  no  longer  read  fashion  magazines.  It  turned  out  that  what  I'd  read  in  Vogue  when  I  was  thirteen-&quot;The  hours  from  noon  to  two  are  the  best  for  suntanning&quot;-was  bad  advice.  BACK  in  our  little  house,  I  sat  on  a  Windsor  chair  in  front  ofan  electric  fan  and  drank  one  cup  of  black  coffee  while  looking  at  a  photo-  graphof  the  President  in  the  Times.  If  he  had  such  brilliant  advisers,  why  didn't  they  advise  him  to  stop  blow-  drying  his  hair?  There  was  no  men-  tion  of  the  subject  in  the  newspaper.  After  reading  about  his  troubles  and  his  diet  I  noticed  that  my  headache  was  cured.  I  decided  to  look  for  Bartlett's  &quot;Familiar  Quotations&quot;  and  see  if  I  could  find  that  poem  about  the  heart  leaping.  I  remembered  no  reference  *_  books  in  the  entire  house  and  only  the  Fannie  Farmer  cookbook  to  refer  to  for  jelly-making  techniques.  It  was  too  hot  to  go  to  the  library  in  town,  and  most  of  my  neighbors  were  illiter-  ate,  though  fine  neighbors  in  every  other  way.  The  only  literate  person  I  knew  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  phone  rates  were  low  enough  to  call  during  the  day,  was  Dr.  Loquesto's  twelve-year-old  son.  He'd  recently  called  me  and  said,  &quot;I  find  Clinton's  hair  so  disturbing.&quot;  The  two  of  them,  father  and  son,  had  abig  library  and  were  always  looking  things  up.  Some  of  their  bookswere  in  the  surgeon's  study  and  others  were  in  the  1i-  brary.  Would  it  be  an  imposition  on  the  boy  to  ask  him  to  look  up  a  poem  in  a  book?  THE  NEW  YORKER,  AUGUST  15,1994  He'd  once  showed  me  the  system  he'd  used  for  separating  his  father's  books  into  different  rooms.  &quot;The  medi-  cal  books  arein  his  study,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;How  about  this  one?&quot;  I  asked,  point-  ing  to  a  medical  textbook  in  their  library.  &quot;He  doesn't  do  diseases-he'd  only  look  at  that  once  in  five  years,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;What  about  this  one?&quot;  I  asked,  point-  ing  to  a  psychology  textbook.  &quot;I  guess  he'd  never  use  it,&quot;  I  added.  &quot;He  thinks  he  knows  all  he  needs  to  about  psychol-  ogy,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  laughed.  If  the  boy  was  ableto  find  the  poem,  he'd  have  to  read  it  out  loud  on  the  phone.  I  knew  he  would  read  it  in  a  cynical  way.  I  remembered  what  the  sur-  geon  had  said  against  Surrealism  when  he  thought  he'd  seen  some  in  my  pho-  tographs.  &quot;I  like  Realism,  I  like  Roman-  ticism,  I'm  too  busy  for  Surrealism!&quot;  he  yelled.  But  if  he  liked  Romanticism,  why  wouldn't  he  look  out  the  window  at  the  sky  when  the  sun  was  setting?  Even  when  he  was  passing  right  by  a  window  he  refused  to  look.  The  truth  must  have  been  that  he  hated  Roman-  ticism.  Probably  he  didn't  even  know  what  the  word  meant  when  he  yelled  out  that  he  liked  it.  I  decided  to  call  the  surgeon's  son  any-  way.  He  usually  came  through  with  the  information  I  needed.  He  seemed  to  be  laughing  when  he  answered  the  phone.  When  I  asked  what  he  was  doing  he  said,  &quot;Looking  through  the  medicine  cabinet.&quot;  &quot;What  could  be  funny  in  there?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  found  a  bottle  of  hydrogen  peroxide  with  the  expiration  date  1976,&quot;  he  said.  Immediately  I  thought  better  of  ask-  ing  him  to  look  up  the  poem.  One  rea-  son  was  that  his  heart  didn't  leap  up  for  anything.  If  it  did,  he  kept  it  hid-  den.  This  would  cause  him  problems  later  on.  Also,  he  hadn't  completed  the  last  assignment  I'd  tried  to  give  him:  when  in  Wellesley  next,  please  find  Anne  Sexton's  childhood  home  and  re-  port  to  me  on  what  it  looks  like.  I  needed  this  information  for  my  plan  to  photo-  graph  three  of  the  poet's  houses  in  Mas-  sachusetts.  But  he  wasn't  interested.  &quot;I  know  where  Thoreau's  house  is,&quot;  he  said.  I  decided  to  wait  until  dark  and  go  to  the  bookstore  to  find  the  quote.  I'd  follow  my  usual  plan  for  the  middle  of  the  day-until  the  light  turned  right  for  photographing  the  moors  and  ponds  I  THE  THRILL  IS  GONE  was  interested  in.  I  would  read  the  Times,  checking  for  signs  of  hope  and  despair.  I'd  deadhead  the  perennials  and  the  fairy  roses.  I'd  go  to  the  ocean  beach  at  four.  I'd  sit  under  the  umbrella  and  read  the  parts  of  the  Times  I'd  missed.  When  most  people  left  thebeach,  I'd  go  swimming,  I'd  work  on  removing  the  polo  player  from  some  bathing  trunks  I'd  bought  for  my  husband,  I'd  go  to  three  farms  to  find  the  best  corn.  I  thought  about  what  I'd  read  in  the  obituary  of  the  Nobel  Prize  geneticist  Barbara  McClintock:  &quot;She  spent  her  life  working  on  corn.&quot;  Then  I'd  go  home  and  take  another  shower  and  put  on  more  mascara.  I'd  put  my  camera  in  my  bicycle  basket  and  go  for  a  long  ride,  On  the  ride  I'd  stop  and  take  the  photo-  graphs  I'd  waited  all  day  to  take.  On  the  way  back  from  the  sunset,  it  would  be  cool  and  dark  enough  to  go  to  the  bookstore.  THE  reference  section  of  the  book-  store  wasn't  popular.  No  section  was  popular  at  that  hour,  because  people  were  having  their  dinners-big  platters  of  corn.  I  had  the  whole  store  to  myself.  If  I  found  the  quote  I'd  buy  the  book.  I  quickly  found  the  word  &quot;Heart.&quot;  On  the  way  to  &quot;Heart&quot;  from  the  back  of  the  book  I  saw  &quot;Wisdom,&quot;  &quot;Wish,&quot;  &quot;Sor-  rows,&quot;  and  &quot;Soul,&quot;  &quot;Sigh,&quot;  &quot;Shudders,&quot;  &quot;Seas,&quot;  and  &quot;Secure.&quot;  &quot;The  Magic  Flute&quot;  was  playing  on  the  stereo.  I  felt  some  hope  and  euphoria  coming  on.  When  I  had  more  time,  I'd  read  this  whole  book  and  everything  quoted  in  it,  even  though  the  plan  sounded  like  something  a  hos-  tagein  4972616e  might  do  to  pass  the  hours.  I  was  momentarily  distracted  by  &quot;Heartstrings  are  a  lute.&quot;  Why  hadn't  I  read  more  poetry?  Another  way  I  had  wasted  my  life  occurred  to  me.  &quot;My  heart  is  pure,&quot;  &quot;my  heart  is  sick  and  [REDACTED];  &quot;my  heart  is  heavy,&quot;  &quot;my  heart  is  at  rest,&quot;  &quot;I  am  sick  at  heart,&quot;  and  nothing  about  &quot;my  heart-rate  target  zone  during  aero-  bic  activity&quot;  -the  way  I  was  accustomed  to  hearing  the  word  used.  There  it  was.  &quot;My  heart  leaps  up.&quot;  My  heart  leapt  up  when  I  saw  it.  &quot;My  heart  leaps  up  when  I  behold  /  A  rain-  bow  in  the  sky.&quot;  But  then  my  heart  quickly  fell  back  down  when  I  remem-  bered  this  famous  poem  and  realized  that  my  education  was  so  poor  that  I  had  forgotten  it.  I'd  buy  all  ofWordsworth's  poems.  I'd  buy  some  Keats,  too,  and  a  scholarly  work  on  the  Romantic  poets.  I  would  read  Spenser's  &quot;Faerie  Queene.&quot;  If  Keats  liked  it  so  much,  it  had  to  be  good.  I  went  to  the  Wordsworth  shelf  and  found  a  book  of  poems.  Right  on  the  same  pagewith  &quot;My  Heart  Leaps  Up&quot;  was  &quot;To  a  Butterfly.&quot;  With  the  headache  and  the  blow-drying  of  the  President's  hair  and  the  reading  of  the  Times  and  the  watching  of  &quot;Crossfire,&quot;  I'd  forgot-  ten  about  the  Romantic  poets.  Maybe  my  life  as  a  wastrel  in  the  gar-  den  looking  at  white  butterflies  wasn't  a  crime.  I'd  try  to  overlook  the  part  of  Wordsworth's  life  where  &quot;he  finally  set  up  house  with  his  beloved  sister.&quot;  I  wouldn't  blame  myself  for  forgetting  the  poem.  Because  when  I'd  phoned  an  En-  glish  waiter  from  a  Tuscan  restaurant  in  Southampton  to  offer  him  a  pear  tree  we  were  digging  up,  &quot;Somewhere  over  the  rainbow&quot;  was  playing  in  the  background  on  his  answering  machine.  I  tried  to  picture  a  rainbow  and  re-  member  the  last  time  I'd  seen  one.  It  was  a  few  years  ago,  right  there  on  Nan-  tucket,  up  near  the  cliff.  I  was  riding  my  bike.  A  boy  of  about  seven  called  to  me,  &quot;Look!&quot;  as  he  pointed  to  the  sky.  Since  I  was  still  fresh  from  city  life  I  thought  he  was  pointing  out  something  I  should  beware  of.  And  as  I  looked  around,  I  saw  nothing  menacing  or  anything  at  all.  The  boy  kept  pointing  and  called,  &quot;Don't  you  see  it?&quot;  &quot;See  what?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;A  rainbow,&quot;  the  boy  said.  And  then  I  did  see  it.  It  was  a  faint  rainbow  separated  in  the  middle  by  what  was  left  of  the  blue  of  the  sky.  I  remembered  that  as  a  time  when  my  heart  leapt  up.  I  was  glad  to  be  on  an  island  where  a  child  would  point  out  a  rainbow  to  a  stranger,  even  though  the  grownups  of  the  island  resorted  to  plas-  tic  surgery,  described  reproductive  sur-  gery,  straightened  crooked  floors,  and  admired  George  Bush.  Except  for  the  owners  of  our  house,  who  were  mad  at  the  Pope  and  disgusted  with  Republi-  cans.  I'd  read  in  an  encyclopedia  that  &quot;for  Percy  Bysshe  Shelley  there  was  no  distinction  between  poetry  and  politics,&quot;  whatever  that  meant.  Maybe  if  I  read  the  Romantic  poets  and  worshipped  na-  ture  along  with  Wordsworth,  and  the  President  became  a  vegetarian,  my  heart  would  leap  up  again.  Probably  not.  Not  as  high  up-I  was  sure  of  that.  