 FICTION  INTERFERENCE  BYJULIAN  BARNES E  longed  for  death,  and  he  longed  for  his  gramophone  records  to  arrive.  The  rest  of  life's  business  was  com-  plete.  His  work  was  done;  in  years  to  come  it  would  be  either  forgotten  or  praised,  depending  upon  whether  mankind  became  more,  or  less,  stupid.  His  business  with  Adeline  was  done,  too:  most  of  what  she  offered  him  now  was  foolishness  and  sentimen-  tality.  Women,  he  had  concluded,  were  at  base  conventional:  even  the  free-spirited  were  eventually  brought  down.  Hence  that  repellent  scene  the  other  week.  As  if  one  could  want  to  be  manacled  at  this  stage,  when  all  that  was  left  was  a  final,  lonely  soaring.  He  looked  around  his  room.  The  gramophone  stood  in  the  corner,  a  mon-  strous  varnished  lily.  The  wireless  had  been  placed  on  the  washstand,  from  which  the  jug  and  bowl  had  been  re-  moved:  he  no  longer  rose  to  rinse  his  wasted  body.  A  low  basketwork  chair,  in  which  Adeline  would  sit  for  far  too  long,  imagining  that  if  she  enthused  enough  about  the  pettinesses  of  life  he  might  dis-  cover  a  belated  appetite  for  them.  A  wicker  table,  on  which  sat  hisspectacles,  his  medicines,  Nietzsche,  and  the  latest  Edgar  Wallace.  A  writer  with  the  profli-  gacyof  some  minor  Italian  composer.  &quot;The  lunchtime  Wallace  has  arrived,&quot;  Adeline  would  announce,  tirelessly  re-  peating  the  joke  he  had  told  her  in  the  first  place.  The  Customs  House  at  Calais  appeared  to  have  no  difficulty  allowing  the  lunchtime  Wallace  through.  But  not  his  &quot;Four  English  Seasons.&quot;  They  wanted  proof  that  the  records  were  not  being  im-  ported  for  commercial  purposes.  Absurd!  He  would  have  sent  Adeline  to  Calais  had  she  not  been  needed  here.  His  window  opened  to  the  north.  He  thought  of  the  village  nowadays  solely  in  terms  of  nuisance.  The  butcher  lady  with  her  motor.  The  farms  that  pumped  their  feed  every  hour  of  the  day.  The  baker     with  ais  motor.  The  American  house  with  its  infernal  new  bathroom.  He  briefly  thought  his  way  beyond  the  vil-  lage,  across  the  Marne,  up  to  Compi\xc3\xa9gne,  Amiens,  Calais,  [REDACTED].  He  had  not  re-  turned  for  three  decades-perhaps  it  was  almost  four-and  his  bones  would  not  do  so  on  his  behalf.  He  had  given  instruc-  tions.  Adeline  would  obey.  He  wondered  what  Boult  was  like.  &quot;Your  young  champion,&quot;  as  Adeline  al-  ways  characterized  him.  Forgetting  the  intentional  irony  when  he  had  first  be-  stowed  this  sobriquet  on  the  conductor.  You  must  expect  nothing  from  those  who  denigrate  you,  and  less  from  those  who  support  you.  This  had  always  been  his  motto.  He  had  sent  Boult  his  instruc-  tions,  too.  Whether  the  fellow  would  un-  derstand  the  first  principles  of  Kinetic  Impressionism  remained  to  be  seen.  Those  damn  gentlemen  of  the  Customs  House  were  perhaps  listening  to  the  re-  sults  even  now.  He  had  written  to  Calais  explaining  the  situation.  He  had  tele-  graphed  the  recording  company  asking  if  a  new  set  could  not  be  dispatched  con-  traband.  He  had  telegraphed  Boult,  ask-  ing  him  to  use  his  influence  sothat  he  might  hear  his  suite  before  he  died.  Adeline  had  not  liked  his  wording  of  that  message;  but  then  Adeline  did  not  like  much  nowadays.  She  had  become  a  vexing  woman.  When  they  had  first  been  companions,  in  [REDACTED],  then  in  Montparnasse,  she  had  believed  in  his  work,  and  believed  in  his  principles  of  life.  Later  she  had  become  possessive,  jealous,  critical.  As  if  the  aban-  doning  of  her  own  career  had  made  her  more  expert  in  his.  Shehad  developed  a  little  repertoire  of  nods  and  pouts  which  countermanded  her  actual  words.  When  he  had  described  the  plan  and  purpose  of  the  &quot;Four  English  Seasons&quot;  to  her,  she  had  responded,  as  she  all  too  regularly  did,  &quot;I  am  sure,  Leonard,  it  will  be  very  fine,&quot;  but  her  neck  was  tight  as  she  said  it,  and  she  peered  at  her  darning  with  un-  necessary  force.  Why  not  say  what  you  think,  woman?  She  was  becoming  secre-  tive  and  devious.  For  instance,  he  pretty  much  suspected  that  she  had  taken  to  her  knees  these  last  years.  Punaise  de  sacristie,  he  had  challenged.  She  hadn't  liked  that.  She  had  liked  it  less  when  he  had  guessed  another  of  her  little  games.  &quot;I  will  see  no  priest,&quot;  he  had  told  her.  &quot;Or,  rather,  ifI  so  much  as  smell  one  I  shall  attack  him  with  the  fire  tongs.&quot;  She  hadn't  liked  that,  oh  no.  &quot;We  are  both  old  people  now,  Leonard,&quot;  she  had  mumbled.  &quot;Agreed.  And  if  I  fail  to  attack  him  with  the  fire  tongs,  consider  me  senile.&quot;  He  banged  on  the  boards  and  the  maid,  whatever  was  her  name,  came  up  at  a  trot.  &quot;Num\xc3\xa9ro  six,&quot;  he  said.  She  knew  not  to  reply,  but  nodded,  wound  the  EMG,  put  on  the  first  movement  of  the  Viola  Sonata,  and  watched  the  needle's  station-  ary  progress  until  it  was  time,  with  swift  and  practiced  wrists,  to  flip  the  record  over.  She  was  good,  this  one:  just  a  brief  halt  at  a  level  crossing,  then  the  music  re-  sumed.  He  was  pleased.  Tertis  knew  his  business.  Yes,  he  thought,  as  she  lifted  the  needle,  they  cannot  gainsay  that.  &quot;Merc,&quot;  he  murmured,  dismissing  the  girl.  HEN  Adeline  returned,  she  looked  questioningly  at  Marie-Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se,  as  she  always  did.  &quot;Num\xc3\xa9ro  six,&quot;  replied  the  maid.  The  first  movement  of  the  Viola  So-  nata.  He  must  have  been  angry;  either  that  or  suddenly  fearful  over  his  reputa-  tion.  She  had  come  to  understand  the  shorthand  of  his  requests,  to  read  his  mood  from  the  music  he  asked  to  hear.  Three  months  ago  he  had  heard  his  last  Grieg,  two  months  ago  his  last  Chopin.  Since  then,  noteven  his  friends  Busoni  and  Sibelius;  just  the  music  of  Leonard  Verity.  The  Second  Piano  Quartet,  the  [REDACTED]  Suite,  the  Oboe  Fantasy  (with  the  revered  Goossens),  the  Pagan  Symphony,  the  Nine  French  Songs,  the  Viola  So-  nata.  .  ..  She  knew  the  articulations  of  his  work  as  once  she  had  known  the  ar-  ticulations  of  his  body.  And  she  admit-  ted  that  in  general  he  recognized  what  was  finest  in  his  output.  But  not  the  &quot;Four  English  Seasons.&quot;  She  had  thought,  from  the  moment  he  FILIP  PAGOW  SKI  " b"had  first  talked  about  it,  then  blocked  it  out  with  his  thinned  fingers  on  the  piano,  that  the  scheme  was  misconceived.  When  he  told  her  it  was  in  four  movements,  one  for  each  season,  beginning  with  spring  and  ending  with  winter,  she  judged  it  ba-  nal.  When  he  explained  that  it  was  not,  of  course,  a  mere  programmatic  represen-  tation  of  the  seasons  but  a  kinetic  evoca-  tion  of  the  memory  of  those  seasons  fil-  tered  through  the  known  reality  of  other,  non-English  seasons,  she  judged  it  theo-  retical.  When  he  chuckled  at  the  notion  that  each  movement  would  fit  perfectly  on  the  two  sides  of  a  gramophone  record,  she  judged  it  calculating.  Suspicious  of  the  early  sketches,  she  had  liked  the  work  no  more  in  published  form;  she  doubted  that  hearing  it  would  convert  her.  They  had  always  agreed,  from  the  be-  ginning,  to  value  truth  above  mere  social  form.  But  when  truths  collide,  and  one  of  them  is  dismissed  as  the  squalid  personal  opinion  of  an  ignorant,  foolish  French-  woman,  then  perhaps  there  was  some-  thing  to  be  said  for  social  form.  Heaven  knew,  she  had  always  admired  his  music.  She  had  given  up  her  career,  her  life,  for  him;  but  instead  of  weighing  with  him  this  now  seemed  to  count  against  her.  The  truth  was,  she  thought-and  this  was  her  truth-that  some  composers  had  a  fine  late  flowering  and  others  did  not.  Perhaps  the  elegy  for  solo  cello  would  be  remem-  bered,  though  Leonard  grew  suspicious  nowadays  at  her  too  frequent  praise  of  it;  but  not  the  &quot;Four  English  Seasons.&quot;  Leave  such  things  to  Elgar,  she  had  said.  What  she  had  meant  was:  you  seem  to  me  to  be  courting  the  country  you  delib-  erately  left,  indulging  a  nostalgia  of  the  kind  you  have  always  despised;  worse,  you  seem  to  be  inventing  a  nostalgia  you  do  not  truly  feel  in  order  to  indulge  it.  Hav-  ing  scorned  reputation,  you  now  appear  to  be  seeking  it.  If  only  you  had  said  to  me,  triumphantly,  that  your  work  would  not  fit  onto  gramophone  records.  There  were  other  truths,  or  squalid  per-  sonal  opinions,  that  she  could  not  trans-  mit  to  him.  That  she  herself  was  not  well,  and  the  doctor  had  talked  of  surgery.  She  had  replied  that  she  would  wait  until  the  current  crisis  was  over.  By  which  she  meant,  until  Leonard  is  dead,  when  it  will  not  matter  to  me  whether  I  submit  to  a  sur-  gical  intervention  or  not.  His  death  had  priority  over  hers.  She  did  not  resent  this.  She  did,  however,  resent  being  called  a  punaise  de  sacristie.  She  had  not  been  go-  ing  to  Mass,  and  the  idea  of  confession,  after  all  these  decades,  struck  her  as  gro-  tesque.  But  everyone  must  approach  eter-  nity  in  his  own  way,  and  when  she  sat  alone  in  an  empty  church  she  was  con-  templating  extinction,  not  its  palliation  by  ritual.  Leonard  would  pretend  not  to  see  the  difference.  &quot;Thin  end  of  the  wedge,&quot;  he  would  say-had  said.  For  her,  it  was  simply  that  they  adopted  different  stances  before  the  inevitable.  Of  course  he  did  not  like  or  understand  this.  He  was  grow-  ing  more  tyrannical  as  he  reached  the  end.  The  weaker  his  strength,  the  more  he  asserted  it.  The  fire  tongs  sounded  the  opening  of  Beethoven's  Fifth  on  the  ceiling  above.  He  must  have  heard,  or  guessed,  her  re-  turn.  She  ran  heavily  upstairs,  banging  an  elbow  on  the  turn  of  the  bannister.  He  sat  in  bed  with  the  tongs  aloft.  &quot;Brought  that  priest  of  yours?&quot;  he  inquired.  But  for  once  he  was  smiling.  She  fussed  with  his  blan-  kets  and  he  pretended  to  object;  but  as  she  bent  beside  him,  he  laid  his  hand  on  her  nape,  just  below  her  coiled  and  gray-  ing  bun,  and  called  her  ma  Ber/inoise.  HE  had  not  anticipated,  when  they  moved  to  Saint-Maure-de-Vercelles,  that  they  would  live  quite  so  separately  from  the  village.  Pedantically,  he  had  ex-  plained  once  more.  He  was  an  artist,  did  she  not  see?  He  was  not  an  exile,  since  that  implied  a  country  to  which  he  could,  or  would,  return.  Nor  was  he  an  immi-  grant,  since  that  implied  a  desire  to  be  ac-  cepted,  to  submit  yourself  to  the  land  of  adoption.  Butyou  did  not  leave  one  country,  with  its  social  forms  and  rules  and  pettinesses,  in  order  to  burden  your-  self  with  the  parallel  forms  and  rules  and  pettinesses  of  another  country.  No,  he  was  an  artist.  He  therefore  lived  alone  with  his  art,  in  silence  and  in  freedom.  He  had  not  left  [REDACTED],  thank  you  very  much,  in  order  to  attend  a  vin  Zhonneur  at  the  mairie,  or  to  tap  his  thigh  at  the  lo-  cal  kermesse  and  offer  a  cretinous  grin  of  approval  to  a  squawking  bugler.  Adeline  learned  that  she  must  deal  with  the  village  in  a  swift  and  necessary  fashion.  She  also  found  a  way  to  translate  Leonard's  profession  de  foi  into  less  rebar-  bative  terms.  M'sieur  was  a  famous  artist,  a  composer  whose  work  had  been  played  from  Helsinki  to  537061696e;  his  concen-  tration  must  not  be  disturbed,  lest  the  wonderful  melodies  forming  within  him  be  interrupted  and  lost  forever.  M'sieur  is  95  like  that,  his  head  is  in  the  clouds,  it  is  just  that  he  does  not  see  you,  otherwise,  of  course,  he  would  tip  his  hat,  why,  some-  times  he  does  not  even  notice  me  when  I  am  standing  in  front  of  his  face  ...  After  they  had  been  living  in  Saint-  Maure  for  ten  orso  years,  the  baker,  who  played  third  cornet  in  the  band  of  the  sapeurs  pompiers,  shyly  asked  her  if  M'sieur  would  as  a  special  honor  write  a  dance,  preferably  a  polka,  for  their  twenty-fifth  anniversary.  Adeline  pro-  nounced  it  unlikely,  but  agreed  to  put  the  request  to  Leonard.  She  chose  a  time  when  he  was  not  working  on  a  composi-  tion,  and  seemed  to  be  of  sunny  tempera-  ment.  Later,  she  regretted  that  she  had  not  chosen  a  moment  of  foul  temper.  For,  yes,  he  said,  with  a  curious  smile,  he  would  be  delighted  to  write  a  polka  for  the  band;  he,  whose  work  was  performed  from  Helsinki  to  537061696e,  was  not  so  proud  that  he  would  not  do  such  a  thing.  Two  days  later,  he  gave  her  a  sealed  ma-  nila  envelope.  The  baker  was  delighted  and  asked  her  to  convey  his  particular  thanks  and  respects  to  M'sieur.  A  week  later,  when  she  entered  the  bow/angerie,  he  would  not  look  at  her  or  speak  to  her.  Fi-  nally,  he  asked  why  M'sieur  had  chosen  to  laugh  in  their  faces.  He  had  scored  the  piece  for  three  hundred  players  when  they  had  only  twelve.  He  had  called  it  a  polka  but  it  did  not  have  the  rhythm  of  a  polka;  rather,  that  of  a  funeral  march.  Nor  could  Pierre-Marc  or  Jean-Simon,  both  of  whom  had  made  some  musical  studies,  discern  the  slightest  melody  in  the  piece.  The  baker  was  regretful,  yet  also  angry  and  humiliated.  Perhaps,  Adeline  sug-  gested,  she  had  taken  the  wrong  compo-  sition  by  mistake.  She  was  handed  the  manila  envelope  and  asked  what  the  En-  glish  word  &quot;poxy&quot;  meant.  She  said  she  was  not  sure.  She  pulled  out  the  score.  It  was  headed  &quot;Poxy  Polka  for  Poxy  Pompiers.&quot;  She  said  she  thought  the  word  meant  &quot;bright,&quot;  &quot;vivid,&quot;  &quot;shining  like  the  brass  on  your  uniforms.&quot;  Well  then,  Madame,  it  was  a  pity  that  the  piece  did  not  appear  bright  and  vivid  enough  to  those  who  would  not  now  play  it.  MORE  years  passed,  the  baker  handed  over  to  his  son,  and  it  was  the  turn  of  the  English  artist,  the  irregular  M'sieur  who  did  not  even  tip  his  hat  to  the  cur\xc3\xa9  when  he  met  him,  to  ask  a  fa-  vor.  Saint-Maure-de-Vercelles  was  just  within  range  of  the  British  Broadcasting  " b"INTERFERENCE  Corporation.  The  English  artist  had  a  high-powered  wireless  that  enabled  him  to  pick  up  music  from  [REDACTED].  Recep-  tion,  alas,  was  of  greatly  varying  quality.  Sometimes  the  atmosphere  caused  prob-  lems,  there  were  storms  and  bad  weather,  against  which  nothing  could  be  done.  The  hills  beyond  the  Marne  were  not  of  great  assistance,  either.  However,  M'sieur  had  discovered,  by  deduction,  one  day  when  every  single  house  in  the  village  had  fallen  silent  for  a  wedding,  that  there  were  also  local  forms  of  disturbance,  from  elec-  tric  motors  of  all  kinds.  The  butcher  had  such  a  machine,  two  of  the  farmers  pumped  their  feed  by  this  method,  and  of  course  the  baker  with  his  bread  ...  Could  they  be  prevailed  upon,  just  for  an  afternoon,  as  an  experiment,  of  course  .  ..  Whereupon  the  English  artist  heard  the  opening  bars  of  Sibelius's  Fourth  Sym-  phony,  that  grave  grumble  from  the  lower  strings  and  bassoons,  which  was  normally  below  the  threshold  of  audibility,  with  a  sudden  and  refreshed  clarity.  And  so  the  experiment  was  to  be  repeated  from  time  to  time,  by  permission.  Adeline  was  the  go-between  on  such  occasions,  a  little  apologetic,  but  also  playing  on  the  snob-  bery  of  the  notion  that  Saint-Maure-de-  Vercelles  had  living  in  its  midst  a  great  artist,  one  whose  greatness  embellished  the  village,  and  whose  glory  would  shine  the  brighter  if  only  the  farmers  would  pump  their  feed  by  hand,  the  bow/langer  would  confect  his  bread  without  electric-  ity,  and  the  butcher  lady  would  turn  off  her  motor  as  well.  One  afternoon  Leonard  discovered  a  new  source  of  dis-  turbance,  which  took  powersof  detection  to  locate  and  then  delicacy  of  negotiation  to  disarm.  The  American  ladies  who  were  fair-weather  occupants  of  that  converted  mill  house  beyond  the  Zzvoir  had  natu-  rally  installed  all  manner  of  appliances,  which  in  Leonard's  view  were  quite  superfluous  to  life.  One  of  these  in  par-  ticular  affected  reception  on  M'sieur's  high-powered  wireless.  The  English  art-  ist  did  not  evenhave  a  telephone;  but  the  two  American  ladies  had  had  the  deca-  dence,  and  the  impertinence,  to  install  a  water  closet  operated  by  electricity!  It  took  a  certain  tact,  a  quality  Adeline  had  developed  increasingly  over  the  years,  to  persuade  them,  on  certain  occasions,  to  delay  their  flushing.  It  was  difficult  to  explain  to  Leonard  that  he  could  not  require  the  village  to  fold  its  shutters  every  time  he  wanted  to  listen  to  a  concert.  Besides,  there  were  occasions  when  the  American  ladies  sim-  ply  forgot,  or  appeared  to  forget,  the  Englishman's  demand;  while  if  Adeline  enteredthe  bow/langerie  and  found  that  the  baker's  old  father,  still  third  cornettist  for  the  sapeurs  pompiers,  was  in  charge,  she  knew  there  was  little  point  in  even  ask-  ing.  Leonard  tended  to  become  irate  when  she  failed,  and  his  normal  pallor  was  blasted  with  puce.  It  would  have  been  easier  had  he  felt  able  to  offer  a  word  of  direct  thanks  himself,  perhaps  even  a  small  present;  but  no,  he  acted  as  if  coun-  trywide  silence  were  his  prerogative.  When  he  first  became  seriously  ill,  and  the  wireless  was  transported  to  his  bed-  room,  he  wished  to  hear  more  and  more  concerts,  which  strained  the  sympathy  of  the  village.  Happily,  over  the  last  few  months  he  had  wanted  nothing  but  his  own  music.  Adeline  might  still  be  dis-  patched  to  obtain  a  vow  of  muteness  from  the  village,  but  she  would  only  pretend  to  go,  confident  that  by  the  time  the  con-  cert  was  due  to  begin  Leonard  would  have  decided  not  to  bother  with  the  wire-  less  that  evening.  Instead,  he  would  pre-  fer  her  to  wind  up  the  EMG,  shuffle  the  horn,  and  play  him  the  Oboe  Fantasy,  the  French  Songs,  or  the  slow  movement  of  the  Pagan  Symphony.  HOSE  had  been  brave  days,  in  Ber-  lin,  Leipzig,  Helsinki,  [REDACTED].  En-  gland  was  death  to  the  true  artist.  To  be  a  success  there  you  had  to  be  a  second  Mendelssohn:  that  was  what  they  were  waiting  for,  like  a  second  Messiah.  In  [REDACTED]  they  had  fog  between  the  ears.  They  imagined  themselves  talking  about  art  but  they  were  only  talking  about  taste.  They  had  no  concept  of  freedom,  of  the  artist's  needs.  It  was  all  Jesus  and  marriage  in  [REDACTED]  Town.  Sir  Edward  Elgar,  knight,  Order  of  Merit,  Master  of  the  King's  Musick,  baronet,  husband.  &quot;Fal-  staff&quot;  was  a  worthy  piece,  there  was  fine  stuff  in  the  &quot;Introduction  and  Allegro,&quot;  but  he  had  wasted  his  time  with  Jesus,  with  those  infernal  oratorios.  Parry!  Had  he  lived  long  enough,  he  would  have  set  to  music  the  entire  Bible.  It  was  not  permitted  to  bean  artist  in  [REDACTED].  You  might  be  a  painter,  or  a  composer,  ora  scribbler  of  some  kind,  but  those  foggy  brains  did  not  understand  the  essential  precondition  behind  all  these  subsequent  professions:  that  of  being  an  artist.  In  Continental  Europe  they  did    " b"not  laugh  at  such  an  idea.  He  had  had  fine  times,  brave  days.  With  Busoni,  with  Sibelius.  His  walking  tour  in  the  Tyrol,  when  he  had  read  his  beloved  Nietzsche  in  the  German.  Christianity  preaches  death.  Sin  is  the  invention  of  the  Jews.  Chastity  produces  as  much  foulness  of  soul  as  lust.  Man  is  the  cruellest  animal.  To  pity  is  to  be  weak.  In  [REDACTED],  the  soul  lived  on  its  knees,  shuffling  toward  the  nonexistent  God  like  some  butcher  boy.  Religion  had  poi-  soned  art.  &quot;Gerontius&quot;  was  nauseating.  Palestrina  was  mathematics.  Plainsong  was  ditchwater.  You  had  to  leave  En-  gland  to  find  the  upper  slopes,  to  let  the  soul  soar.  That  comfortable  island  dragged  you  down  into  softness  and  pet-  tiness,  into  Jesus  and  marriage.  Music  is  an  emanation,  an  exaltation  of  the  spirit,  and  how  can  music  flow  when  the  spirit  is  pegged  and  tethered?  He  had  explained  all  this  to  Adeline  when  first  he  had  met  her.  She  had  understood.  Had  she  been  an  Englishwoman,  she  would  have  ex-  pected  him  to  play  the  organ  on  Sunday  and  help  her  bottle  jam.  But  Adeline  had  been  an  artist  herself  at  the  time.  The  voice  had  been  coarse  but  still  expressive.  And  she  had  seen  that  if  he  was  to  pur-  sue  his  destiny,  her  art  would  have  to  be  subordinate  to  his.  You  could  not  soar  if  manacled.  She  had  understood  that,  too,  at  the  time.  It  was  insistently  important  to  him  that  she  admire  the  &quot;Four  English  Sea-  sons.&quot;  She  was  becoming  ever  more  con-  ventional  and  foggy  between  the  ears:  such  was  the  penalty  of  age.  She  had  at  last  spotted  before  her  the  great  immen-  sity  of  the  void  and  did  not  know  how  to  respond.  He  knew.  Either  you  lashed  yourself  to  the  mast  or  you  were  carried  away.  He  therefore  kept  ever  more  sternly  and  deliberately  to  the  rigorous  principles  of  life  and  art  which  he  had  spent  so  long  enunciating.  If  you  weakened,  you  were  lost,  and  the  house  would  soon  enough  contain  the  priest,  the  telephone,  and  the  collected  works  of  Palestrina.  When  the  telegram  from  Boult  ar-  rived,  he  ordered  Marie-Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se  not  to  mention  the  fact  to  Madame,  on  pain  of  dismissal.  Then  he  placed  an  additional  pencil  cross  against  Tuesday's  concert  in  Radio  Times.  &quot;We  shall  listen  to  this,&quot;  he  informed  Adeline.  &quot;Alert  the  village.&quot;  As  she  looked  over  his  fingers  at  the  paper,  he  could  sense  her  puzzlement.  A  Glinka  overture,  followed  by  Schumann  and  Tchaikovsky:  hardly  the  preferred  listen-  ing  of  Leonard  Verity.  Not  even  Grieg,  still  less  Busoni  or  Sibelius.  &quot;We  shall  dis-  cover  what  my  young  champion  does  with  this  old  stuff,&quot;  he  said  by  way  of  ex-  planation.  &quot;Alert  the  village,  do  you  see?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Leonard,&quot;  she  replied.  He  knew  it  was  one  of  his  master-  pieces;  he  knew  that  were  she  to  hear  it  truly,  she  would  recognize  this.  But  it  must  come  upon  her  suddenly.  That  opening  enchantment  of  the  remembered  bucolic,  with  a  pianissimo  cor  anglais  wrapped  in  the  quietest  rustle  of  muted  violas.  He  imag-  ined  the  soft  transformation  of  her  face,  her  eyes  turning  toward  him  as  they  had  THE  NEW  YORKER,  SEPTEMBER  19,  1994  done  in  [REDACTED]  and  Montpar-  nasse  .  ..  He  loved  her  enough  to  see  it  as  his  task  to  rescue  her  from  her  own  later  self.  But  there  must  be  truth  between  them,  too.  As  she  straightened  his  blanket  he  therefore  said,  abruptly,  &quot;This  business  won't  be  cured  by  Ze  coup  du  chapeau,  you  know.&quot;  She  scurried  from  the  room  in  tears.  He  could  not  judge  whether  they  were  caused  by  his  acknowl-  edgment  of  death  or  by  his  refer-  ence  to  their  first  few  weeks  to-  gether.  Perhaps  both.  In  [REDACTED],  where  they  had  met,  he  had  failed  to  arrive  for  their  second  rendez-  vous,  but  instead  of  taking  offense,  as  other  women  might  have  done,  Adeline  had  come  to  his  room  and  found  him  prostrate  with  an  in-  fluenza  cold.  He  remembered  her  straw  hat,  worn  despite  the  lateness  of  the  season,  her  full,  clear  eyes,  the  cool  chord  of  her  fingers,  and  thecurve  of  her  hip  as  she  turned  away.  &quot;We  shall  cure  you  with  Z  coup  du  cha-  peau,&quot;  she  had  announced.  It  was  appar-  ently  some  medical  practice  or,  more  likely,  superstition  among  the  peasants  of  her  region.  She  declined  to  elucidate,  but  went  away  and  returned  with  a  wrapped  bottle.  She  told  him  to  make  himself  comfortable  and  to  put  his  feet  together.  When  they  formed  a  soft  puy  in  the  bed,  she  found  his  hat  and  placed  it  over  his  feet.  Then  she  poured  him  a  large  tumblerful  of  cognac  and  told  him  to  drink.  At  the  time,  he  had  preferred  beer  to  strong  liquor,  but  he  did  as  he  was  told,  marvelling  at  how  improbable  such  a  scene  would  be  in  [REDACTED].  After  two  deep  glasses,  she  asked  if  he  could  still  see  hishat.  He  replied  that  of  course  he  could.  &quot;Keep  watching  it,&quot;  she  had  said,  and  poured  him  a  third  glass.  He  was  forbidden  to  speak,  and  had  no  memory  now  of  what  she  had  chattered  on  about.  He  merely  drank  and  watched  his  hat.  Finally,  midway  through  his  fifth  glass,  he  had  started  to  giggle  and  an-  nounced,  &quot;I  can  see  two  hats.&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  she  said  with  sudden  brisk-  ness.  &quot;Then  the  cure  is  working.&quot;  She  had  played  the  same  spread  chord  on  his  fore-  head  and  left,  taking  the  bottle  with  her.  He  fell  into  a  coma  and  awoke  twenty  hours  later,  feeling  much  better.  Not  the  least  reason  for  this  was  that  when  he  opened  his  eyes  and  looked  down  toward  " b"INTERFERENCE  his  feet  there  was  no  hat  to  be  seen  but  only  the  profile  of  his  already  beloved  Adeline,  sitting  in  a  low  chair  reading  a  book.  It  was  then  that  he  told  her  he  was  going  to  become  a  great  composer.  Opus  1,  scored  for  string  quartet,  flute,  mezzo-soprano,  and  sousaphone,  would  be  called  &quot;Le  Coup  du  Chapeau.&quot;  Using  his  newly  discovered  method  of  Kinetic  Impressionism,  it  would  depict  the  tra-  vails  of  a  suffering  artist  cured  of  influenza  and  lovesickness  by  a  beautiful  helpmeet  and  a  bottle  of  cognac.  Would  she  accept  the  dedication,  he  had  asked.  Only  if  she  admired  the  piece,  she  had  replied  with  a  flirtatious  tilt  of  her  face.  &quot;If  I  write  it,  you  will  admire  it.&quot;  The  statement  was  not  vain  or  authoritarian  but,  rather,  the  reverse.  Our  destinies,  he  meant,  are  now  joined,  and  I  shall  con-  sider  worthless  any  composition  of  mine  that  fails  to  please  you.  This  is  what  his  words  intended,  and  she  had  understood.  Now,  downstairs  in  the  kitchen,  strip-  ping  the  fat  from  some  beef  bones  to  make  Leonard's  bouillon,  she  remem-  bered  those  first  few  months  in  [REDACTED].  How  jolly  he  had  been,  with  his  cane,  his  sly  wink,  and  his  repertoire  of  music-hall  songs;  how  not  at  all  the  stiff  Englishman  of  racial  stereotype.  And  what  a  different  patient  he  had  made  in  those  days  when  she  had  given  him  Ze  coup  du  chapeau.  That  had  been  the  start  of  their  love;  now  she  was  tending  him  once  more,  at  the  end  of  it.  In  [REDACTED],  when  he  was  recov-  ered,  he  had  promised  that  she  would  be  a  great  singer  and  he  would  be  a  great  composer;  he  would  write  his  music  for  her  voice  and  together  they  would  con-  quer  Europe.  It  had  not  happened.  Shehad  doubted  her  own  talent  more  than  she  doubted  his.  They  made  instead  an  artists'  pact.  They  bound  themselves  together,  twin  spirits  in  life  and  in  music,  though  never  in  marriage.  They  would  fly  free  of  the  constraints  that  governed  most  people's  existences,  preferring  the  higher  con-  straints  of  art.  They  would  rest  lightly  on  the  ground  so  that  they  might  soar  the  higher.  They  would  not  entangle  them-  selves  in  the  pettinesses  of  life.  There  would  be  no  children.  And  so  they  had  lived:  in  [REDACTED],  Leip-  zig,  Helsinki,  [REDACTED],  and  now  in  a  softly  scooped  valley  north  of  Coulommiers.  They  had  rested  lightly  on  the  ground  here  for  over  two  decades.  Leonard's  fame  had  grown,  and  with  it  his  reclusive- " b"100  ness.  There  was  no  telephone  in  the  house;  newspapers  were  forbidden;  the  high-  powered  wireless  was  used  only  for  listen-  ing  to  concerts.  Journalists  and  acolytes  were  denied  entry;  most  letters  went  unan-  swered.  Once  a  year,  until  Leonard  became  ill,  they  would  travel  south,  to  Menton,  Antibes,  Toulon,  incongruous  locations  where  Leonard  would  fret  forhis  damp  valley  and  the  lonely  rigor  of  his  normal  life.  On  these  journeys  Adeline  would  sometimes  fall  prey  to  a  sharper  lamentation,  for  the  family  she  had  quarrelled  with  all  those  years  ago.  In  a  caf\xc3\xa9  her  glance  might  stop  on  the  face  of  some  lyrical  young  man,  and  she  would  briefly  consider  him  an  unknown  nephew.  Leonard  dis-  missed  these  speculations  as  sentimental.  For  Adeline  the  artistic  life  had  begun  in  gregariousness  and  warmth;  now  it  was  ending  in  solitude  and  austerity.  When  she  had  nervously  suggested  to  Leonard  that  they  might  secretly  be  married  she  had  implied  two  things  only.  First,  that  she  would  be  better  able  to  protect  his  music  and  watch  over  his  copyrights;  and,  second,  selfishly,  that  she  would  be  able  to  live  on  in  the  house  they  had  shared  for  so  long.  She  explained  to  Leonard  the  inflexibil-  ity  of  the  French  law  in  respect  of  concu-  binage,  but  he  did  not  want  to  hear.  He  had  become  irate,  banging  the  fire  tongs  on  the  boards,  so  that  Marie-Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se  came  running.  How  could  she  think  of  betraying  the  very  principles  of  their  life  together?  His  music  belonged  to  nobody  and  to  the  whole  planet.  Either  it  would  be  played  after  his  death  or  it  would  not,  depending  on  the  intelligence  or  stupid-  ity  of  the  world;  that  was  all  there  was  to  be  said.  As  for  herself,  he  had  not  re-  alized  when  they  had  made  their  pact  that  she  had  sought  pecuniary  advantage,  and  if  that  was  what  exercised  her,  she  should  take  what  money  she  could  find  in  the  house  when  he  lay  on  his  deathbed.  She  might  as  well  return  to  her  family  and  pamper  those  imaginary  nephews  she  was  always  bleating  about.  Here,  take  the  Gauguin  off  the  wall  and  sell  it  now  if  that  is  your  concern.  But  do  stop  your  wailing.  \xc2\xabJT  is  time,&quot;  Leonard  Verity  said.  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;We  shall  see  what  my  'young  cham-  pion'  is  made  of.&quot;     &quot;Oh,  Leonard,  let  us  have  the  Oboe  Fantasy  again.&quot;  &quot;Just  turn  it  on,  woman.  We  are  nearly  at  the  hour.&quot;  As  the  wireless  slowly  warmed  and  hummed,  and  the  rain  played  a  soft  pizzicato  on  the  window,  she  told  herself  it  did  not  really  matter  that  she  had  failed  to  alert  the  village.  She  doubted  he  would  persist  beyond  the  overture  to  &quot;Ruslan  and  Ludmilla,&quot;  which  in  any  case  had  sufficient  stridency  topierce  most  atmospheric  disturbance.  &quot;Queen's  Hall  .  ..  Invitation  Concert  ...  Musical  Director  of  the  British  Broadcasting  Corpo-  ration  ..  .&quot;  They  listened  to  the  normal  litany  from  their  normal  positions:  he  aloft  in  the  bed,  she  in  the  low  basketwork  chair,  close  to  the  EMG  in  case  the  tuning  needed  adjust-  ment.  &quot;Change  to  the  program  which  has  been  previously  announced  .  ..  Glinka  ...  new  work  by  the  English  composer  Leonard  Verity  .  ..  honor  of  his  seven-  tieth  birthday  later  this  year  ...  Four  English  ...&quot;  She  howled.  He  had  never  heard  such  a  sound  emerge  from  her  before.  She  fought  her  heavy  way  downstairs,  ignored  Marie-Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se,  and  ran  out  into  a  wet  dark  afternoon.  Below  her,  the  village  jangled  with  light  and  flashed  with  noise:  gigantic  motors  turned  and  thrummed.  A  Zermesse  had  started  in  her  head  with  traction  engines  and  flood-  lamps,  the  comic  frippery  of  the  round-  about  organ,the  tinny  clatter  of  the  shooting  range,  the  careless  blast  of  cor-  net  and  bugle,  laughter,  fake  fear,  flash  ing  bulbs,  and  stupid  songs.  She  ran  down  the  track  to  the  first  of  these  orgiastic  sites.  The  old  bow/anger  turned  inquisitively  as  the  wild,  wet,  under-  dressed  woman  irrupted  into  his  son's  shop,  gave  him  a  mad  stare,  howled,  and  ran  out  again.  She,  who  for  years  had  been  so  practical,  so  swift  and  necessary  with  the  village,  now  could  not  even  make  herself  understood.  She  wanted  to  strike  the  whole  countryside  into  silence  with  fire  from  the  gods.  She  ran  into  the  butcher's,  where  Madame  was  driving  her  mighty  turbine:  a  throbbing  belt,  a  tormenting  scream,  blood  everywhere.  She  ran  to  the  nearest  farm  and  saw  feed  for  a  hundred  thousand  cattle  being  churned  and  sluiced  by  a  hundred  elec-  tric  pumps.  She  ran  to  the  American  house,  but  her  knocking  could  not  be  heard  above  the  antic  flushing  of  a  dozen  electric  water  closets.  The  village  was  conspiring,  just  as  the  world  always  conspired  against  the  artist,  waiting  un-  til  he  was  weakest  and  then  seeking  to  destroy  him.  The  world  did  it  carelessly,  without  knowing  why,  without  seeing  why,  just  thumbing  a  switch  with  a  ca-  sual  clack.  And  the  world  didn't  even  notice,  didn't  listen,  just  as  now  they  seemed  not  to  hear  the  words  in  her  mouth,  these  faces  gathered  round,  star-  ing  ather.  He  was  right,  of  course  he  was  right,  he  had  always  been  right.  And  she  had  betrayed  him  in  the  end,  he  was  right  about  that,  too.  In  the  kitchen  Marie-Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se  was  standing  in  awkward  conspiracy  with  the  cur\xc3\xa9.  Adeline  went  upstairs  to  the  bedroom  and  shut  the  door.  He  was  dead,  of  course,  she  knew  that.  His  eyes  were  closed,  either  by  nature  or  by  hu-  man  interference.  His  hair  looked  as  if  it  had  just  been  combed,  and  his  mouth  was  turned  down  in  a  final  sulk.  She  eased  the  fire  tongs  from  his  hand,  touched  his  forehead  in  a  spread  chord,  then  lay  down  on  the  bed  beside  him.  His  body  yielded  no  more  in  death  than  it  had  in  life.  At  last,  she  fell  quiet,  and  as  her  senses  re-  turned  she  became  loosely  aware  of  Schumann's  piano  concerto  stumbling  through  the  static.  SHE  sent  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  mowleur,  who  took  a  cast  of  the  composer's  face,  and  one  of  his  right  hand.  The  British  Broadcasting  Corporation  an-  nounced  the  death  of  Leonard  Verity,  but  since  they  had  so  recently  given  the  first  performance  of  his  final  work,  further  musical  tribute  was  judged  inessential.  Three  weeks  after  the  funeral,  a  square  parcel  marked  &quot;Fragile&quot;  arrived  at  the  house.  Adeline  was  alone.  She  chipped  the  sealing  wax  from  the  two  fat  knots,  unfolded  layers  of  corrugated  cardboard,  and  found  an  obsequious  let-  ter  from  the  recording  manager.  She  took  each  of  the  &quot;Four  English  Seasons&quot;  from  its  stiff  manila  envelope  and  sat  them  on  her  knee.  Idly,  methodically,  as  Leonard  would  have  approved,  she  or-  dered  them.  Spring,  summer,  autumn,  winter.  She  stared  at  the  edge  of  the  kitchen  table,  hearing  other  melodies.  They  broke  like  biscuit.  Her  thumb  bled.  *  "