 b"HEY  were  in.  In.  Mother,  father,  and  daughter.  She  waited  to  hear  them  come  in,  stayed  awake.  She  would  be  awake  anyhow,  because  sleep  was  paying  her  less  and  less  court  as  the  years  went  on.  Occasionally,  she  took  a  tablet,  but  dreaded  being  at  the  mercy  of  any  drug  and  had  a  secondary  dread  of  one  day  not  being  able  to  get  it,  or  notbeing  able  to  afford  it.  In  those  wide-awake  vigils  she  prayed  or  tried  to,  but  prayer,  like  sleep,  was  on  the  wane  now,  at  thevery  time  when  she  should  be  pressing  her  maker  for  favors.  The  prayers  came  only  from  her  lips,  not  from  deep  within-  she  had  lost  that  heartfelt  rapport  she  once  had  with  God.  When  the  prayers  became  meaningless,she  went  around  her  house  in  her  mind  and  thought  of  improvements  she  would  make  this  year  or  next-new  wallpaper  in  the  big  room,  where  the  pink  was  soiled  around  the  window  frames,  brown  smears  from  all  the  damp.  And  then  in  the  vacant  room,  where  apples  were  stored,  the  wallpaper  had  been  hung  upside-down  and  had  survived  the  years  without  anyone  know-  ing  that  theacorns  and  the  branches  were  the  wrong  way  around.  She  might  have  that  replaced,  too,  just  to  get  the  better  of  those  fools  who  hung  it  incor-  rectly.  She  was  a  woman  who  liked  to  be  always  in  the  right.  Funny  that  on  the  day  the  paper  was  hung  she  had  con-  sulted  some  seer  in  the  city  about  a  cer-  tain  matter  and  had  been  told  that  she  would  go  home  and  find  these  fruits  and  bobbins  the  wrong  way  up,  and  she  did.  In  other  quarters  of  her  house,  she  was  more  spartan  with  her  improvements;  she  thought  of  maybe  a  new  strip  of  li-  noleum  inside  the  hall  door,  to  save  the  tiles  from  trampling  boots.  Scrubbing  was  hard  for  her  now,  hard  on  her  lower  back.  Then  there  were  little  things,  like  new  towels  and  tea  towels  and  dish,  cloths-dishcloths  smelled  ofmilk  no     FICTION  SIN  BY  EDNA  O'BRIEN  matter  how  she  soaked  or  boiled  them.  They  had  that  sour,  gone-off  smell.  Smell  was  her  strongest  sense,  and  when  these  paying  guests  arrived  that  morning  she  smelled  the  woman's  perfume  and  the  daughter's-identical,  and  yet  noth-  ing  else  about  them  seemed  alike.  The  daughter,  Samantha,  blond  and  cock-  sure,  screwed  up  her  eyes  as  if  she  were  thinking  something  mathematical,  when  all  she  was  thinking  was  Look  at  me,  ad-  mire  me.  She  touted  for  their  attention.  Her  hair  was  her  chief  weapon-long  hair,  which  she  swept  along  the  table  as  she  looked  carefully  at  the  wallpaper  or  at  her  parentsor  at  a  picture  over  the  whatnot,  of  pussycats  who  were  trying  to  move  the  hands  of  a  clock  on  to  feeding  time.  She  kept  insisting  that  her  parents  have  a  bite  of  her  toast,  or  a  taste  of  her  porridge,  because  it  was  yummy.  Her  skirt  was  nothing  short  of  nude-a  bib,  really,  to  draw  attention  to  her  thighs,  like  pillars  of  solid  nougat  inside  her  cream  lace  stockings.  The  mother  was  dark  and  plump  and  made  a  habit  of  touching  the  daughter  whenever  she  jumped  up  in  one  of  her  fits  of  simulated  exuberance.  The  father  smoked  a  pipe.  He  was  a  handsome  man,  tall  and  distant.  They  ate  breakfast,  then  had  to  have  a  basket  packed  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  sandwiches  for  their  boating  expedition.  She  explained  that  they  must  make  their  own  arrangements  for  dinner.  When  they  came  back,  she  heard  them  say  &quot;Sh-  h-h,  sh-h-h&quot;  repeatedly  as  they  climbed  the  stairs.  They  used  the  bathroom  in  turn.  She  could  tell  by  their  footsteps,  and  had  to  concede  that  they  were  do-  ing  their  best  to  be  quiet-that  is,  until  something  went  crash-crash  and  the  mother  went  to  the  rescue  of  the  daugh-  ter.  She  reckoned  it  was  the  china  tooth  mug.  She  loved  that  tooth  mug,  cream  with  green  fluting  and  little  garlands  of  shamrock,  and  she  wanted  to  get  up  and  tackle  them,  but  something  stopped  her.  Also,  she  did  not  have  a  dressing  gown.  Would  they  be  in  their  dressing  gowns?  The  woman  possibly  yes,  and  the  man  in  his  shirtsleeves.  She  would  miss  the  T3  tooth  mug,  she  would  mourn  it.  Her  things  had  become  her  beloveds,  all  else  gone,  or  scattered  in  distant  places.  She  knew-oh,  yes,  she  knew  -that  the  love  of  children  gets  fainter  and  fainter,  like  a  garment  that's  washed  and  rewashed  until  it  is  only  a  shadow  of  its  original  color,  its  crimson  or  royal  blue.  Their  daughter,  their  Samantha,  would  be  like  that  soon,  would  skedaddle  once  she  had  other  interests,  men  and  so  forth.  The  parents  had  the  blue  room,  which  had  been  her  and  her  husband's  bridal  room,  the  one  where  her  children  were  born  and  where  as  the  years  went  on  she  slept  as  little  as  possible  and  went  only  when  she  was  compelled  to,  when  he  roared  for  her.  She  went  to  keep  him  quiet,  to  keep  him  off  the  batter-went  in  disgust  and  stayed  in  disgust  and  af-  terward  rinsed  and  washed  herself  of  it  all.  Five  children  were  enough  for  any  woman.  Four  scattered  children  andone  dead,  and  a  daughter-in-law  who  had  made  her  son,  her  only  son,  the  essence  of  graspingness.  Still,  she  must  not  be  too  hard  on  them.  The  girls  remembered  when  they  remembered,  they  sent  gifts,  especially  the  one  overseas,  and  next  time  when  asked  what  she  wanted  she  would  say  a  dressing  gown,  and  then  she  could  confront  her  lodgers.  She  only  kept  people  in  summer,  partly  because  theyonly  came  then  but  also  be-  cause  to  heat  the  house  in  winter  would  be  impossible,  as  it  swallowed  up  tankers  of  oil.  Moreover,  shenever  kept  people  for  more  than  two  nights,  believing  they  might  get  forward  and  start  to  think  the  house  was  theirs,  opening  wardrobes  and  doors,  making  free.  Her  other  reason  was  more  of  a  secret.  Shewas  afraid  that  she  might  grow  attached  to  them  and  ask  them  to  stay.  With  the  takings,  she  made  im-  provements  to  the  house  but  never  in-  dulged  in  a  luxury  for  herself  except  for  the  jam  and  tins  of  biscuits  for  her  sweet  tooth.  YES,  they  were  in  her  marriage  bed,  a  wide  bed  with  an  oak  headboard  that  rattled  and  a  rose  quilt  that  she  had  " b" made  duringher  betrothal,  stitching  all  her  dreamings  into  it.  She  imagined  them,  man  and  wife,  lying  side  by  side,  the  square  pouches  of  the  quilt  rising  and  sinking  with  their  breath,  and  she  re-  membered  the  clutching  of  it  and  the  plucking  of  some  of  the  feathers  as  her  husband  made  wrathful  and  unloving  love  to  her.  How  might  it  have  been  with  another  man,  a  gentler,  more  consider-  ate  man?  The  girl  was  probably  not  asleep,  but  shaping  her  eyebrows  or  brushing  the  long  spill  of  hair,  brushing  it  slowly  and  maybe  even  examining  herself  in  the  mirror,  admiring  her  plump,  firm  little  figure  inside  her  short  nightgown.  After  they  went  out  to  dinner,  she  had  peered  into  their  rooms.  She  did  not  open  their  suitcases,  as  a  point  of  honor,  but  she  studied  some  of  their  possessions,  the  woman's  string  of  pearls,  her  cosmetics,  and  her  dark-brown  hair  net,  which  lay  stealthily  next  to  his  pipes,  pipes  of  different-colored  wood,  and  a  folded  swag  of  mulchy  tobacco.  Their  money,  English  money,  was  piled  into  two  little  banks-his  money  and  her  money,  she  felt.  On  the  girl's  dressing  table  there  was  only  the  hairbrush,  cotton  buds,  and  baby  oil.  The  diaphanous  nightie  was  laid  out  on  the  pillow  and  looked  lifelike,  as  if  there  were  a  doll  inside  it.  Sleep  would  not  come.  She  got  up,  intending  to  go  look  at  the  broken  tooth  mug,  but  as  soon  as  she  reached  the  door  something  prevented  her.  She  was  ashamed  of  being  heard  by  them.  It  was  as  if  the  house  had  become  theirs  and  she,  the  lodger,  beholden  to  them.   Something  about  their  being  a  family,  and  all  over  each  other,  and  blowing  about  what  a  brilliant  time  they  were  having  galled  her.  She  paced.  Pacing  was  one  of  the  things  she  did  at  night,  but  now  she  felt  that  it,  too,  was  wrong-re-  vealing-and  so  she  crept  back  into  her  bed  and  waited  for  the  blessing  of  sleep.  Sleep  often  came  unbeknownst  to  her.  It  was  not  preceded  by  yawning  or  drowsi-  ness.  There  she  would  be,  totting  up  what  guests  owed  her,  taking  it  and  put,  ting  it  in  the  big  orange  bowl  where  the  spoils  of  the  summer  were  kept,  and  all  of  a  sudden  it  would  be  morning,  the  sun  giving  a  rich,  red-wine  glow  to  the  vel-  vet  curtains,  orthe  rain  pouring  down  and  her  little  dog,  Gigi,  on  his  hind  legs,  looking  up  at  her  window,  waiting  for  her  to  get  up  and  come  down  and  open  the  back  door  and  serve  him  a  saucer  of  tea  with  milk.  Over  the  years,  he  had  grown  more  like  a  human  and  was  un-  doubtedly  her  most  faithful  friend.  With  some  visitors  she  found  it  more  difficult  to  get  to  sleep.  They  unnerved  her  orshe  began  thinking  aboutthem,  speculating  about  their  lives,  their  earn-  ings,  their  happiness,  and  so  forth,  and  so  it  was  with  these  three.  It  was  as  if  she  had  to  be  awake,  to  keep  a  watch.  Exactly  half  an  hour  after  they  had  re-  tired,  it  happened.  She  heard  a  creak,  the  girl's  door  opening  slowly,  and  she  thought  it  was  bathroom  need,  but,  no,  she  heard  her  go  toward  their  room  on  tiptoe  and  then  she  heard  a  tap,  a  series  of  taps,  light  and  playful-not  the  tapping  of  a  sick  or  overwrought  child,  not  the  tap-  ping  of  someone  disturbed  by  a  mouse  or  a  bumblebee-and  in  that  second  she  knew  it.  Her  whole  body  went  into  spasm.  She  heard  the  girl  go  into  their  room,  and  then  everything  became  so  silent,  the  at-  mosphere  so  tense,  that  her  hand,  jerk-  ingher  own  doorknob,  made  her  jump.  Sheopened  her  door  very  softly  and  moved  in  their  direction,  not  certain  what  exactly  she  would  do.  The  whole  house  seemed  to  wait.  They  were  not  talking,  yet  what  reached  her  ears  could  not  be  called  silence.  Something  terrible  was  being  en-  acted  in  there,  a  rite  of  whispering  and  tittering  and  lewd  laughter.  She  could  not  see,  yet  her  eyes  seemed  to  penetrate  through  the  panelled  door  as  if  it  were  sheer  glass  and  she  could  picture  them-  hands,  mouths,  limbs,  all  searching  for  one  another.  They  had  not  dared  to  put  on  a  light.  The  girl  was  probably  naked,  or  else  wore  her  scarf  like  a  sarong,  moving  with  them  in  their  macabre  dance,  yield-  ing,  allowing  them  to  fondle  her,  the  man  fondling  her  in  one  place,  the  woman  fondling  her  elsewhere-an  orgy  of  ca-  resses  and  whispers  and  sighs  thatrent  the  air.  Those  sighs  and  whispers  magnified.  She  would  break  the  door  down.  It  was  not  enough  simply  to  open  it.  She  would  catch  them  out,  the  man,  lord  of  his  harem,  straddled  over  a  girl  who  was  in  no  way  his  daughter,  and  the  woman  ministering,  because  that  was  the  only  way  she  could  hold  on  to  him.  Vile.  Vile.  There  was  a  poker  in  there,  in  the  coal  scuttle,  left  since  her  last  confinement,  thirty  years  ago,  and  she  was  already  picking  it  up.  She  would  break  it  on  their  bare  romping  bodies.  What  detained  her  she  could  not  say.  Everything  deter-  mined  that  she  go  in,  and  yet  she  waited  in  some  wanton  hesitation,  as  if  she  were  waiting  for  their  smell.  Their  exclamations  were  what  sent  her  scurrying  back  to  her  own  room,  the  three  pitches  of  sound  so  different-the  woman's  loud  and  gusty,  the  girl's  help-  less,  almost  as  if  she  were  crying,  and,  sometime  later,  his,  like  a  jackass  down  in  the  woods  with  his  lady  love.  She  sat  on  the  edge  of  her  bed  in  a  simmer.  They  would  have  to  go  in  the  morning.  She  would  let  them  know  why.  She  would  convey  it  to  them,  insinuate  that  the  girl  was  not  their  daughter,  but  she  would  never  know  for  sure,  and  that,  plus  the  vile  pageant  in  the  dark,  would  torment  her  and  be  a  plague  on  her  house  until  the  day  she  died.  *  "