EUROPEAN  NIGHT  JOURNEY       A  VEHICLE  ..  .»  swaylng,  a  SIZ—  zling  of  wheels  running  not  on  rails  but  on  as-  phalt,  an  engine  purr,  a  sensa-  tion  of  being  cush10ned  like  a  child  doz-  ing  on  a  sofa,  voices  in  Czech  telling  long  stories,  and  on  the  back  seat-  which  a  honeymoon  couple  have  to  them-  selves-a  bride  still  wearing  her  roses.  Near  the  front,  a  group  of  shopkeepers  who  specialize  in  glassware,  on  their  way  to  look  at  Venetian  glassblowers.  A  Bohe-  mian  dance  comes  over  the  loudspeaker;  there  is  a  faint  smell  of  beer.  We  are  with  Zdena,  in  the  coach  she  caught  outside  the  Hauptbahnhof  of  Bratislava.  She  is  seated  next  toa  bald  man  wearing  a  dark  suit  with  a  pinstripe  that  is  twenty  years  out  of  fashion.  They  have  been  sitting  beside  each  other  for  two  hours  and  have  not  exchanged  a  word.  Not  even  arriving  in  [REDACTED]  made  them  talk.  He  removed  his  hat,  and  she  kicked  off  her  shoes.  After  that,  each  of  them  settled  back  into  their  personal  limbo.  Zdena  looked  out  the  window,  and  he  read  a  newspaper.  Now  he  opens  his  dispatch  case  and  takes  out  a  brown-paper  pack-  age.  Unwrapping  it,  he  finds  some  meat  sandwiches.  Lifting  up  the  whole  package,  he  offers  one  to  her.  She  shakes  her  head.  He  shrugs  and  bites  into  one.  -Have  you  noticed,  he  says  with  his  mouth  full,  how  gherkins,  the  ogurchiky,  are  getting  more  and  more  sour?  She  says  nothing.  -Is  it  your  first  visit  to  4974616c79?  -Yes,  it  is.  She  has  a  voice  that  doesn't  fit  her  reticent  appearance.  The  voice  of  a  born  singer,  which  doesn't  have  to  search  for  expression,  since  expression  is  the  gift  of  that  voice.  The  three  words-yes,  it  is-  sounded  as  though  they  were  an  entire  life  story.  She  turns  again  to  the  window.  Soon  it  will  be  dark,  The  last  sunshine  lights  BY  JOHN  BERGER  the  distant  mountains,  a  church  hidden  between  hills,  leaves  (millions  of  them,  the  nearest  along  the  edge  of  the  road  made  to  flutter  by  the  draft  of  the  pass-  ing  coach),  village  houses  of  three  stories,  apple  trees,  wooden  fences,  a  solitary  horse.  -I'm  sure  you'll  like  4974616c79,  he  says.  -I  just  change  there,  she  says.  It  is  the  moment  in  the  farmsteads  out  there  when  the  chickens  are  locked  up  for  the  night,  and  old  women  crumple  newspapers  and  push  them,  with  kindling  wood,  into  the  stove  and  look  for  the  box  of  matches.  -Why  not  take  an  orange?  In  4974616c79  we'll  already  find  cherries.  Where  do  you  go  afterward?  -To  my  daughter's  wedding.  -A  happy  occasion,  then.  -Scarcely.  My  daughter  is  HI.V.-  positive.  Without  an  instant's  reflection,  Zdena  has  told  this  man  what  shehas  hesitated  to  tell  her  intimate  friends.  She  staresat  him  as  though  he,  not  she,  has  said  something  shocking.  The  skin  of  his  bald  scalp  is  as  smooth  as  a  silk  scarf  that  has  been  moistened  with  a  spray  and  ironed.  -I'm  so  sorry,  he  murmurs.  -I  think  you  should  be!  The  driver  turns  down  the  volume  on  the  music  and  announces  over  the  loud-  speaker  that  in  five  minutes  the  coach  will  be  stopping  at  a  Gasthaus  for  toi-  lets  and  refreshments.  -It  takes  a  long  time,  the  bald  man  says,  and  meanwhile  it's  possible  ...  -Are  you  a  doctor?  -No,  I  drive  a  taxi.  -You  expect  me  to  believe  that!  What  are  you  doing  riding  in  a  coach  if  you  drive  a  taxi?  -I'm  tired  of  driving,  he  explains.  -You  don't  have  the  face  of  a  taxi-  driver!  she  retorts.  -I  can't  help  it.  I  drive  a  taxi.  And  anyway  cars  are  useless  in  4974616c79;  in  4974616c79  you  walk.  Zdena  pauses,  perhaps  to  wonder  what  she's  doing.  -A  taxi-driver.  It's  hard  to  believe,  she  says.  -We're  all  living  through  things  that  are  hard  to  believe,  the  man  says,  things  we  never  imagined.  -Forty  minutes'  respite,  announces  the  driver  over  the  loudspeaker,  not  a  minute  more,  please.  WHEN  Zdena  and  the  bald  man  come  back  into  the  coach,  they  know  each  other's  names-she  has  dis-  covered  that  his  is  [REDACTED]-and  are  deep  in  conversation  as  they  walk  down  the  aisle  to  their  seats.  -What  shall  I  tell  her  when  I  see  her?  I  can't  bear  lies.  All  my  life  I've  fought  against  lies-to  my  cost.  But  it's  stronger  than  me.  I  can't  bear  lies.  -You  have  a  voice  that  couldn't  lie.  There  are  voicesthat  can't  lie.  -So?  -There's  no  need  to  lie.  What's  needed  is  calm.  -I  haven't  seen  her  for  six  years.  As  you  might  guess,  I  blame  myself:  if  I'd  been  with  her,  it  wouldn't  have  hap-  pened.  I  should  have  stayed  with  her.  She  needed  me.  Of  course,  I  blame  myself.  -There's  no  blame.  -She's  so  young,  so  young.  ..  .  -Whom  the  gods  love,  says  the  bald  man,  quoting  the  poet  Menander,  whom  the  gods  love  dies  young.  -There's  no  love  in  AIDS.  I'm  a  sci-  entist.  I  know  what  I'm  talking  about.  No  love.  Not  a  scrap.  -You  mustn't  panic,  Citizen.  -Citizen!  You're  the  second  person  this  week  to  call  me  Citizen.  I  thought  our  ancient  form  of  address  was  junked.  As  discredited  as  theancien  régime.  -You  like  to  hear  it?  -Now  that  it's  no  longer  used,  I  suppose  I  do.  When  it  was  used,  I  hated  the  hypocrisy  of  it.  I  guess  it  reminds  me  of  my  teens,  when  I  dreamed  of  going  to  the  Conservatoire.  There's  a  silence.  Both  of  them  remembering.  -So,  she's  getting  married,  the  man  says.  FILIP  PAGOWSKI     -An  Italian  has  fallen  in  love  with  her,  and  insists  upon  marrying  her.  Crazy.  -He  knows?  -Of  course.  -She  doesn't  want  to  get  married?  -She  wants  everything  and  she  wants  nothing.  They  can't  have  children.  I'll  never  know  what  she  feels.  Nobody  else  can  know.  But  I  feel  it  here.  She  used  the  Slavic  word  duché-  putting  her  hand  to  the  base  of  her  neck-and  the  way  she  pronounced  it  indicated  that,  although  she  was  small  and  light  as  a  bird,  her  longing  and  her  despair  were  immense.  Outside,  the  trees  are  blacker  than  the  sky,  and  the  driver  has  put  on  an  old  cassette  of  a  Verdi  opera.  The  honey-  moon  couple  are  cuddling,  and  the  shopkeepers  are  opening  cans  of  beer.  -Is  he  unemployed,  your  future  son-in-law?  -He  sells  clothes,  men's  clothes.  -So  he  works  in  a  big  store.  -No,  in  street  markets.  He's  called  Gino.  -That's  short  for  Luigi.  -Yes,  taxi-driver!  -If  I  understand  you,  you've  never  met  him.  -Here,  I  have  a  photo  that  my  daughter  sent  me.  He  examines  it.  -She's  very  beautiful,  your  daughter,  and  she  already  looks  Italian!  As  for  Gino  with  his  big  nose  and  his  long  wrists,  he's  exactly  like  a  young  man  drawn  by  [REDACTED]  van  Leyden.  A  long  time  ago,nearly  five  centuries  ago.  I  have  a  postcard  of  the  drawing  at  home.  [REDACTED]  probably  drew  it  a  few  months  after  meeting  Albrecht  Diirer-the  two  of  them  swapped  drawings  in  [REDACTED].  -How  come  you  know  so  much?  -Gino  and  the  man  in  [REDACTED]'s  drawing  have  the  same  kind  of  indepen-  dence.  It  goes  with  their  faces-with  those  teeth  and  that  nose.  It  has  noth-  ing  to  do  with  rank.  Men  like  them  never  have  power.  They're  riders.  Much  later,  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  turned  the  rider  into  a  cowboy,  but  he's  much  older  than  [REDACTED].  He's  the  man  in  folktales  who  comes  to  take  you  awayon  his  horse.  Not  to  his  palace;  he  doesn't  have  one.  He  lives  in  a  tent  in  the  forest.  He's  never  learned  to  count-  -If  he  sells  clothes  in  a  street  mar-  ket,  I'd  have  thought  he  could  count!  -Prices,  yes;  consequences,  no.  -That's  why  I  say  &quot;crazy.&quot;  He  doesn't  know  what  he's  doing.  -He  knows  exactly  what  he's  doing.  More  than  you  or  I  know  what  we're  doing.  When  we  do  a  thing,  when  we  de-  cide  to  do  something,  we're  already  thinking  about  what  it'll  be  like  when  it's  done,  when  it's  over.  Not  him.  He  only  thinks  about  what  he's  doing  at  the  moment.  -His  passion,  apparently,  is  fishing  on  the  river  Po.  -His  passion  is  your  daughter.  Zdena  lowers  her  head,  as  if  ashamed.  The  coach  passes  a  castle  with  lights  in  every  window  and  hundreds  of  cars  parked  outside.  --[REDACTED]  van  Leyden,  [REDACTED]  says  af-  ter  a  silence  of  several  minutes-a  si-  lence  underlined  by  the  snoring  of  the  passengers  already  asleep-[REDACTED]  van  Leyden  died  before  he  was  forty.  -I  don't  think  Dutch  painters  of  the  sixteenth  century  take  taxis  in  Bratislava-  so  how  do  you  know?  -Every  day  I  bring  with  me  a  hun-  dred  postcards  to  look  at  whileI'm  wait-  ing  for  a  fare!  Zdena  raises  her  head  and,  for  the  first  time  in  weeks,  she  laughs.  Her  laugh  ripples.  The  bald  man  shakes  his  head  and  smiles.  --Then  she  says,  gently,  When  I  lis-  ten  to  you,  I  feel  you  deploy  your  ency-  clopedic  knowledge-for  that's  what  it  is=-so  as  not  to  have  to  face  the  pain  of  it,  the  cruelty,  of  life.  -Under  theancien  régime,  he  says,  I  used  to  work  for  an  encyclopedia.  -That  explains  everything!  -Not  everything.  -Everything  about  you!  She  laughs  again.  -The  Priruiny  Slovnik  Nautny,  he  announces.  -I  have  it  at  home.  You  were  an  editor?  -I  tried  to  keep  the  painters  for  my-  self.  I  was  a  general  editor.  -And  now?  -What  do  you  expect?  L'ancienne  encyclopedie!  There's  no  money.  We  were  turned  out  into  the  street,  and  each  of  us  was  given  fifty  sets  of  the  encyclope-  dia  to  sell.  If  we  succeeded,  we  could  keep  the  money  for  ourselves.  What  we  called  a  'kopeck  handshake&quot;!  -I  bet  they  were  hard  to  sell.  T1  -I  didn't  sell  one  set.I  kept  my  car  and  I  became  a  taxi-driver.  -You  lost  your  job  working  for  an  encyclopedia,  [REDACTED],  and  years  before  that  I  was  distributing  samizdat.  We're  political  enemies.  -My  wife  makes  dresses.  ...  No,  don't  cry.  .  ..  Yes,  cry.  -I  haven't  cried  once.  -Then  ery,  my  dear,  ery.  Her  sobs  come  faster,  and,  so  as  not  to  be  heard,  she  buries  her  mouth  in  her  companion's  jacket.  Then  she  tries  to  speak,  but  she  can't  find  her  voice.  When  at  last  she  does  find  it,  she  whispers,  barely  audibly:  and  what  a  black  mountain  has  blocked  the  world  from  the  light.  It's  time-  It's  time-  It's  time  to  give  back  to  God  his  ticket!  The  coach  hurtles  down  the  motor-  way.  The  shopkeepers  drink  their  last  beer.  The  bride  lays  her  head  on  the  crotch  of  her  sleeping  husband.  And  [REDACTED]  puts  his  arm  round  the  woman  from  Bratislava  who  quoted  Tsvetaeva.  THE  driver  is  going  slow,  for  the  vis-  ibility  is  poor.  The  wipers  barely  clear  the  windscreen,  and  they  scrape  like  rakes.  The  headlights  illuminate  a  wall  of  falling  snow,  beyond  which  he  can  make  out  nothing.  He  slows  to  a  walk-  ing  pace,  and  finally  stops,  puts  on  the  hand  brake,  and  switches  off  the  engine.  Now  the  noise  of  the  sleeping  pas-  sengers  sounds  louder:snores,  the  bub-  bling  of  deep  breaths,  murmurs  like  those  of  an  organ  after  the  organist  has  stopped  playing.  Outside  the  coach,  si-  lence-a  silence  of  feathers.  Zdena  stirs,  opensan  eye,  screws  it  up,  rubs  the  misted  window  with  her  left  hand.  Rubbed,  it  reveals  nothing  new.  Snowflakes  falling,  so  close  together  that  they  touch  one  another.  -We've  lost  our  way.  She  says  this  to  the  man  against  whose  shoulder  she  has  been  sleeping.  The  bald  man  opens  his  eyes  and  takes  in  the  snow.  -We  must  be  near  Packsattel,  he  says.  What  I  don't  understand  is  why  we  have  stopped.  -Because  we  can't  go  on.  She  leans  against  his  shoulder,  still  half  asleep.  -We  should  be  able  to  go  on,  she  says,  we  should,  and  we  don't.  They  say  Communism  is  dead,  yet  we've  lost  our  T2  nerve.  We  have  nothing  to  fear  and  we  are  frightened  of  everything.  -For  something  to  die,  [REDACTED]  says,  for  something  to  be  dead,  it  has  first  to  be  alive.  And  this  wasn't  the  case  with  Communism.  -You  had  a  Party  card!  -So  one  can't  talk  of  its  being  dead.  To  talk  of  its  being  dead  is  a  stupidity.  -Are  we  going  to  stay  here  forever?  Stay  here  forever.  Ever.  Forever?  -Sshh.  ...  Tl  tell  you  a  story.  Can  you  hear  me?  -'Let  me  sing  of  sorrow  from  the  top  of  the  mountain.&quot;  Zdena  plucks  with  little  pinches  at  the  material  of  the  man's  sleeve.  That's  also  [REDACTED]  Tsvetaeva,  you  know?  -Once,  [REDACTED]  says,  there  was  a  man  called  Ulrich,  He  lived  in  the  Koralpe,  which  is  near  where  we  are  now.  This  was  fifty  years  ago.  -Around  the  time  [REDACTED]  hanged  herself,  Zdena  says.  -UIrich  had  a  chalet  high  up  in  the  alpage,  and  every  summer  he  took  his  goats  and  his  two  cows  up  there.  In  the  morning,  he  would  go  out  barefoot  over  the  grass  and  collect  with  ashovel  all  the  cow  shit  he  could  find  and  dump  it  in  one  heap.  Allthe  men  in  the  a/page  did  the  same,  for  cows  won't  eat  grass  where  shit  has  rested  fordays,  and  in  the  ferocious  immensity  of  these  mountains  every  square  metre  of  green  grass  is  precious.  With  the  coach  stopped,  the  snow-  flakes  stick  to  the  windows,  with  the  effect  of  crocheted  curtains.  Calm  now,  Zdena  nuzzles  her  ear  against  the  shoul-  der  of  [REDACTED]'s  jacket.  -One  year,  earlier  than  expected,  the  snows  came,  he  continues.  So  Ulrich  de-  cided  not  to  fight  his  way  down  but  to  spend  the  winter  in  the  chalet.  He  made  a  tunnel  through  the  snow  to  the  stable  and  the  barn  where  some  hay  was  stacked.  He  stayed  on  the  mountainside  all  win-  ter,  and  not  one  of  his  animals  died.  [REDACTED]  rests  his  hand  on  her  hair,  which  is  short  and  curly,  with  traces  of  gray  at  the  roots.  She  is  on  the  verge  of  sleep.  -In  the  valley,  the  villagers  were  frightened  for  Ulrich.  The  other  men  had  all  come  down.  If  Ulrich  spends  the  winter  up  there,  they  said,  he'll  go  mad.  But  when  the  spring  came  and  the  snows  melted  and  some  of  the  villagers  climbed  up  tosee  Ulrich,  he  welcomed  them  in.  He  offered  them  firewater,  and  he  ap-  peared  to  be  completely  himself.  We  must  wait  and  see,  the  villagers  said  on  their  way  down,  these  things  take  time.  With  her  hair  between  the  fingers  of  his  large  hand,  [REDACTED]  prevents  her  head  from  lolling  and  falling  too  low,  and  this  gentle  tugging  on  her  scalp  keeps  her  just  awake  enough  to  hear  some  of  his  words.  -The  next  year,  before  the  snows  came,  Ulrich  decided  not  to  go  down  to  the  valley  but  to  spend  the  winter  with  his  animals  on  the  mountainside  again.  He  saw  to  it  that  there  was  enough  hay,  and  they  all  survived.  In  this  way  the  years  passed.  Sometimes  the  snows  came  early,  sometimes  late,  but  Ulrich  never  again  came  down  to  the  village  for  the  winter.  One  summer,  years  later,  the  village  schoolmaster  was  walking  high  in  the  mountains  and  he  came  upon  Ulrich,  and  so  he  asked  him:  Ulrich,  why  doyou  never  come  back  to  the  village  when  the  snows  come?  And  Ulrich  replied:  Imag-  ine  how  hard  it  would  be  for  a  man  to  spend  six  months  in  a  village  surrounded  by  people  who  are  convinced  he  is  mad!  I'm  better  here.  The  bald  man  can  feel  the  woman's  regular  breathing.  Sleep,  little  mother,  sleep.  HEN  Zdena  wakes  up,  it  is  a  new  day:  there  is  no  more  snow;  the  coach  is  in  the  bus  station  in  Trieste;  the  sun  is  up;  the  seat  beside  her  is  empty.  She  glances  at  the  luggage  rack:  [REDACTED]  has  taken  both  his  hat  and  his  battered  dispatch  case.  -Have  I  time  to  goand  wash?  she  asks  the  driver,  who  is  eating  cherries  from  a  paper  bag  and  spitting  the  stones  out  of  the  window.  The  driver  looks  at  his  watch.  -We  leave  in  four  minutes,  he  says.  The  passengers  from  Bratislava  are  more  alert  than  yesterday.  Today  they  are  in  a  foreign  country  that,  until  re-  cently,  was  aforbidden  one-a  land  of  fruit  and  wine,  of  elegant  shoes,  jewelry,  corruption,  and  sunshine.  The  newly-  weds  are  impatient  to  go  to  bed  in  their  Venetian  hotel.  The  shopkeepers  are  impatient  to  get  down,  to  take  note  of  every  difference,  and  to  buy  whatever  they  can.  The  driver  starts  the  engine  just  as  Zdena  climbs  back  into  the  coach,  panting.  -You  can't  leave  yet,  there's  a  pas-  senger  missing!  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  25,  1994  -If  somebody  misses  the  bus,  says  the  driver,  it's  not  the  bus's  fault.  -Please,  wait  two  minutes  more,  I'm  asking  you.  -You  know  how  long  we  have  in  4974616c79  to  turn  around,  lady,  before  I  drive  back?  Eight  hours,  no  more.  And  I  need  some  sleep.  -That's  wrong,  says  Zdena.  You  are  entitled  to  twenty-four  hours.  -Entitled!  You  want  more  than  eight  hours,  they  scream,  then  drive  for  another  coach  line,  not  ours!  -It's  against  the  security  regulations,  argues  Zdena.  -Who  cares?  -I  know  he  was  going  to  4974616c79,  he  told  me  so.  -He's  not  the  first  man,  sweetheart,  to  vanish  in  Trieste.  -He  had  a  ticket  for  4974616c79!  -He  was  the  first  passenger  to  get  down.  You  were  still  asleep!  -Please,  one  moment  more.  You  can  make  up  the  time  on  the  autoroute.  -There's  a  speed  limit.  -Who  cares?  You  justsaid  it.  Who  cares?  She  opens  her  handbag  and  slips  a  couple  ofhundred-koruna  notes  under  the  paper  bag  of  cherries  on  the  shelf  by  the  windscreen.  --I'd  say  you're  a  doctor,  says  the  driver.  -No,  I'm  an  engineer.  -I'l  give  you  two  minutes,  engineer,  not  a  second  more.  He  lays  the  palm  of  his  hand  flat  on  the  horn  and  hoots.  Not  once  but  three  times.  -That  should  put  him  up  if  any-  thing  can!  Encyclopedia  editors  rarely  run.  The  man,  who  has  appeared  at  the  street  cor-  ner,  tries  to  sprint,  doubled  up,  holding  his  case  against  his  chest  like  somebody  performing  in  an  egg-and-spoon  race.  Allthose  watching  from  the  coach  smile,  Zdena  included.  Once  seated,  he  takes  a  while  to  catch  his  breath.  -I  kept  the  coach  back  for  you,  they  wanted  to  leave  without  you.  By  way  of  reply,  [REDACTED]  unfolds  a  pa-  per  napkin  and  shows  her  two  rolls  of  golden  milk  bread  decorated  with  sugar  crystals  and  vermillion  berries.  -Ambrosia,  food  for  the  gods-  and  the  thermos  I  had  filled  with  cappuccino.  EUROPEAN  NIGHT  JOURNEY  The  two  of  them  drink  from  blue  pa-  per  cups  with  white  Madonnalike  fig-  ures  printed  on  them,  and  the  froth  of  the  coffee  lines  his  upper  lip.  Then  they  bite  into  the  rolls.  Zdena  has  pearly,  very  regular  teeth.  -It's  hard,  he  says.  We're  living  on  the  brink,  and  it's  hard,  because  we've  lost  the  habit.  Once  everybody-old  and  young,  rich  and  poor-took  it  for  granted.  Life  was  painful  and  precarious.  Chance  was  cruel.  On  feast  days,  there  were  brioches.  You  like  them?  -These  are  filled  with  almond  paste.  -And  these  are  morello  cherries.  -For  two  centuries,  we've  believed  in  history  as  a  highway  that  was  taking  us  to  a  future  such  as  nobody  has  ever  known  before.  We  thought  we  were  ex-  empt.  When  we  walked  through  the  galleries  of  theold  palaces  and  saw  all  those  massacres  and  last  rites  and  de-  capitated  heads  on  platters,  all  painted  and  framed  on  the  walls,  we  told  our-  selves  we  had  come  a  long  way-not  so  far  that  we  couldn't  still  feel  for  them,  of  course,  but  far  enough  to  know  that  we'd  been  spared.  Now  people  live  to  be  much  older.  There  are  anesthetics.  We've  landed  on  the  moon.  There  are  no  more  slaves.  We  apply  reason  to  ev-  erything.  And  suddenly  we  find  our-  selves  far  from  any  highway,  perched  like  puffins  on  a  cliff  ledge  in  the  dark.  -I  can't  fly.  -You've  never  flown,  even  in  a  dream?  -Perhaps.  -It's  a  question  of  belief.  -In  that  case  there's  no  harm  in  be-  ing  on  your  ledge,  is  there?  It  has  never  occured  to  Zdena  before  that  a  stranger  might  make  advances  to  her  grief,  and  that  she  might  flirt  with  him.  She  wants  to  weep  at  the  absurdity  of  it  and  smile  with  the  relief.  -You  have  to  be  frightened,  he  says.  -Frightened  I  am.  -Then,  you'll  fly.  -Look!  She  points  through  the  win-  dow,  where  the  snowflakes  made  their  curtain.  There's  the  sea.  -We've  lost  the  habit.  -Of  flying?  -No,  of  living  on  a  ledge.  -The  sea's  very  calm.  -It'll  come  back.  -You  mean  one  day  I'll  get  used  to  it.  -Things  become  familiar  without  your  getting  used  to  them.  4s  «cg»  C&gt;  -Despair  is  familiar,  [REDACTED],  don't  you  think?  -Of  course,  one  can't  help  imagin-  ing  less  pain,  less  injustice.  -Dear  God,  why?  -They  asked  the  same  question  during  the  Black  Death,  when,  in  Eu-  rope,  one  person  in  three  died  of  the  plague.  ..  .  Fourteenth  century.  -You  had  to  write  an  entry  about  the  Black  Death  in  your  encyclopedia?  -There  wasn't  one.  It  came  under  Feudalism,  Reasons  for  Its  Decline.  Try  one  of  these,  they're  made  from  walnuts.  Walnuts  were  once  thought  to  cure  ill-  nesses  of  the  brain.  -Lightly  roasted,  they  eliminate  de-  spair!  she  shrieks.  -The  thing  about  Italians  is  they  understand  pleasure,  he  says,  all  their  in-  genuity  goes  into  pleasure.  They're  the  opposite  of  Slavs.  -Are  they?  If  you  say  so,  I  expect  you're  right.  We  only  live  once,don't  we?  And  today  we  have  to-no,  I  have  to-I  have  to  live  without  hope.  Tears  fill  her  eyes.  -Last  summer,  says  the  bald  man,  I  visited  a  ruined  temple.  In  places,  the  grass  had  split  the  stones.  No  inscrip-  tions.  No  time.  Only  the  grass  growing  and  wilting  and  growing.  Outside  Zdena's  window,  the  morn-  ing  colors  roll  by:  greens,  poppy  reds,  mustard  yellows.  Hill  gives  way  to  hill,  and  the  far  ones  are  lavender-colored.  They  pass  lorries  from  Sofia  and  Istan-  bul.  Up  by  the  windscreen,  the  light  dazzles  as  from  a  hundred  key  rings.  -I  could  see  a  broken  arch.  It  framed  the  sky  and  a  little  triangle  of  the  sea.  Everything  so  far  away,  my  dear,  and  very  slowly,  so  slowly  it  perhaps  took  an  hour  or  more,  I  noticed  that  the  sky  framed  by  the  ruin  was  brighter,  had  more  light  in  it  than  the  sky  around,  and  that  the  little  triangle  of  sea  was  of  a  deeper  blue  than  the  rest  of  the  sea.  Op-  tical  illusion,  you'll  say!  You're  the  sci-  entist,  and  I'm  your  political  enemy  with  a  Party  card....  On  a  ledge,  but  not  without  hope,  Zdena.  She  begins  to  shake  like  a  leaf  before  it  drops  from  a  tree  after  the  first  night  of  frost,  and  she  shakes  with  laughter,  uncontrollable.  And  the  bald  man  re-  peats:  on  a  ledge  in  the  dark.  Then  he  picks  up  her  nearest  hand  to  stroke  it,  whilst  the  bus  hurtles  on.  At  last  Zdena  is  calm.  Silently,  the  two  of  them  sit  there.  She  doesn't  pull  her  hand  away,  and  as  a  coach  from  Budapest  overtakes  them  he  reaches  for  her  left  hand,  the  one  whose  fingers  often  hurt  her,  and  al-  though  he  doesn't  know  this  and  will  never  know  it,  he  gently  clasps  the  fin-  gers  that  hurt  and  comforts  them,  and  she  looks  down  at  the  man's  hand  with  its  hairs  curling  like  &quot;Q's,  and  she  sighs.  Much  later  she  whispers:  Thank  you. 