 b"66  FICTION  WAR  AND  PEACE  Y  son,  Clay,  is  at  the  car  lot  in  town  and  my  daughter,  Karen,  7  ,&quot;;1s  way  off  to  ~~  L--  ---  Powderville.  But  they  talk  on  the  phone  a  lot  and  I  know  that's  how  they  cooked  up  this  business  with  the  Indian.  They  con-  cluded  that  my  attitude  was  from  be-  ing  by  myself  so  much.  In  other  words,  no  contact  with  my  own  past,  which  at  this  point  is  my  life.  Karen  arranged  to  bring  the  Indian  to  the  house  for  a  visit.  She  stood  in  my  kitchen  and  told  me  what  she  was  going  todo,  period.  I  didn't  saya  word.  I  just  lit  a  cigarette  and  looked  at  her.  It  so  happens  that  I  know  this  Cheyenne  quite  well-John  Red  Wolf,  or,  as  he  was  known  in  the  service,  John  R.  Wolf.  He  was  my  friend.  Even  though  we  had  gone  from  [REDACTED]  to  Alameda,  [REDACTED],  then  to  the  Solomon  Islands  on  the  same  cruiser,  we  only  met  after  I  had  ridden  half  the  40-mm.  gun  mount  over  the  side  in  the  wake  of  an  attack  by  a  suicide  plane.  I  remember  it  was  an  overcast  day  and  we  had  reason  to  fear  Japs  com-  ing  in  from  the  low  cloud  cover.  We  never  heard  this  one.  Or  at  least  I  didn't,  after  what  living  between  the  two  five-  inch  guns  had  done  to  my  eardrums.  The  Jap  plane  dropped  like  a  rock  and  blew  up  about  a  city  block  in  front  of  me  and  took  my  gun  mount  into  pieces.  I  went  over  the  side  with  a  bunch  of  dead  and  dying  guys  who  had  been  passing  shells  from  the  ammunition  bay.  The  minute  I  knew  I  was  alive  and  floatingin  the  big  ground  swell  from  the  [REDACTED],  I'm  thinking  about  thesharks  that  shadowed  the  ship  from  about  mid-Pacific  until  we  got  to  Saipan-big  pets  of  the  cruiser,  that  looked  like  submarines.  As  a  mat-  ter  of  fact,  they  got  right  into  the  dead  guys  and  were  cleaning  them  up  when  Mr.  Red  Wolf  pulled  me  into  the  life-  boat.  The  next  day,  we  were  playing  catch    on  the  stern.  I  had  loaned  my  glove  to  an  officer  and  he  never  returned  it.  John  Red  Wolf  just  went  up  and  re-  covered  it  straight  out  of  the  officer's  quarters  so  we  could  play  catch  to-  gether-two  guys  from  [REDACTED]  an-  chored  offa  little  island  covered  with  abandoned  Jap  bunkers  and  a  blown-  up  ammo  dump  that  looked  like  a  hole  right  in  the  middle  of  the  world.  The  Indian  wasn't  particularly  afraid  of  officers.  We  almost  got  used  to  the  kami-  kazes,  they  were  such  a  regular  fea-  ture  there  toward  the  end,  when  the  Emperor  knew  he'd  had  the  course.  Every  now  and  then  something  would  happen  you  couldn't  forget,  though,  like  the  Zero  that  came  from  be-  tween  the  two  little  islands  near  Jolo  and  Tawi  Tawi,  about  five  feet  off  the  water,  weaving  with  amazing  skill.  Then  he  elevated  and  just  caught  the  stern  catapult,  and  blew  up.  Before  the  firemen  could  move  and  before  we  even  had  time  to  admire  the  skill  of  this  pilot,  a  hand  came  whistling  down  the  deck  and  stopped  next  to  the  sick-  bay  ventilator.  We  went  over  to  look  at  it:  this  little  brown  Jap  hand.  It  re-  ally  shook  us  up.  Isn't  that  something?  That  air  show  was  right  out  of  the  Olympics,  and  here  was  this  loose  hand.  When  we  resumed  boxing  matches  on  the  fantail  for  the  first  time  since  the  New  Hebrides,  I  attended  with  my  new  friend  Red  Wolf.  This  big  farm  kid  from  [REDACTED]  put  on  the  gloves  with  a  smaller  but  more  experi-  enced  Mexican  from  [REDACTED].  The  Mexican  danced  around  until  some  of  the  guys  started  booing,  but  he  kept  it  up  till  the  farm  boy  was  out  of  gas.  Then  the  Mexican  began  wail-  ing  on  his  head.  It  wasn't  good.  We  kept  seeing  his  face  flatten,  with  hair  all  pointed  one  way  and  sweat  drops  flying  out  over  the  ocean.  Red  Wolf  remarks,  &quot;Yes  sir,  this  makes  a  lot  of  sense.&quot;  We  began  to  feel  we'd  helped  the  Mexican  arrange  an  assassina-  tion.  It  must've  been  catching,  be-  cause  even  though  there  was  an  en-  thusiastic  crowd,  by  the  Marianas  box-  ing  on  the  ship  was  kaput.  For  months  afterward,  anytime  we  were  on  the  fantail  Red  Wolf  would  remember  it  and  say,  &quot;That  made  a  lot  of  sense,  didn't  it?&quot;  The  ship  smelled,  because  the  cap-  tain  didn't  want  subs  following  our  garbage.  Therefore,  we  kept  our  gar-  bage  and  the  ship  smelled  like  a  dump.  Red  Wolf  says,  &quot;Tll  takethe  subs.&quot;  It  was  hot.  We  slept  on  deck  with  seabags  for  pillows  and  had  big  theo-  ries  about  the  stars,  which  swarmed  right  down  onto  the  surface  of  the  sea.  Sometimes,  when  it  was  too  hot  to  sleep,  like  on  our  way  down  to  Borneo,  me  and  Red  Wolf  we  talked  about  home.  I  told  him  I  ranched  a  little,  and  he  told  me  he  was  an  auto  mechanic  and  a  medicine  man.  He  said,  &quot;That'd  be  like  a  preacher  man  to  you,  only  my  religion  ain't  the  same  as  your  religion.&quot;  At  first,it  made  it  look  like  we  had  less  in  common  than  I  thought.  But  the  more  we  talked  we  realized  we  had  the  land  we  lived  on,  which  I  guess  neither  one  of  us  owned,  though  at  one  point  Red  Wolf  made  a  joke  about  how  he  really  owned  my  ranch.  This  kind  of  talk  was  so  much  like  the  talk  we  had  with  the  [REDACTED]  rebels  on  the  ship,  about  the  War  Between  the  States,  that  we  dropped  it,  a  way  of  saying,  What  the  fuck,  this  is  war.  By  the  time  the  Japs  were  backing  down  toward  the  mainland,  the  only  country  we  had  was  this  light  cruiser.  At  first,  guys  would  show  off,  reciting  every  state  of  the  union  and  its  capital,  but  that  gave  out  long  before  the  equator.  By  Subic  Bay,  the  only  country  we  had  was  the  ship.  One  of  the  last  things  our  task  force  took  on  was  the  shelling  of  a  Z  bunch  of  islands  near  New  [REDACTED],  if  I  remember  right,  where  we  suc-  $  ceeded  in  setting  offa  Jap  ammuni-  AGOWS  FILIP     " b"tion  dump.  What  fireworks!  Dur-  ing  this  bombardment,  Red  Wolf  showed  one  and  all  what  kind  of  stuff  he  was  made  out  of.  To  wit:  a  five-inch  shell  hung  fire  in  the  gun,  and  while  the  whole  crew  waited  for  this  horror  to  discharge  and  blow  a  hole  in  the  side  of  our  ship,  Red  Wolf  worked  alone  to  free  the  shell,  af-  ter  which  it  was  dumped  over  the  side.  The  Navy  should  have  cited  him  for  bravery  but  never  did.  We  sailors  won't  forget,  for  whatever  that's  worth.  They  said  it  was  humanly  impossi-  ble  to  remove  that  shell  by  yourself.  Red  Wolf  said  that  being  a  medicine  man  gave  him  extra  powers  where  required.  Sometimes,  when  Roosevelt  was  being  broadcast  to  all  hands  over  the  loudspeakers,  Red  Wolf  and  me  would  find  a  quiet  spot  to  visit  about  some  of  the  things  that  were  so  amazing,  or  worse,  to  young  fellows  from  the  sagebrush  such  as  us.  Like  when  a  Jap  torpedo  bomber  crippled  us  in  '43  and  we  had  to  seal  off  a  flooded  compart-  ment  with  seventeen  of  our  buddies  still  inside.  Funny  thing  was,  we  shot  that  plane  down  after  he  cut  his  tor-  pedo  loose.  The  pilot  bailed  out  and  we  turned  him  to  hamburger  with  the  20-mm.  Later,  we  heard  that  was  against  the  rules  of  war.  Tell  it  to  our  buddies.  We  discussed  other  close  calls,  like  seeing  a  periscope  on  a  moonlight  night  and  our  ship  zigzag-  ging  all  over  the  ocean  to  keep  from  getting  sunk.  We  discussed  guys  that  couldn't  take  the  heat  and  concussion  and  boredom  and  finally  went  Asiatic  and  had  to  be  sent  home.  I'dlike  to  have  a  nickel  for  every  time  we  looked  out  there  at  all  the  flying  death  and  said  to  each  other,  &quot;It's  like  a  movie!&quot;  For  example,  the  big  powder  maga-  zine  that  wentup  on  Tarawa-a  roll-  ing  ball  of  smoke  and  flame,  full  of  dead  Japs.  Other  stuff  going  up:  pill-  boxes,  assembly  areas,  truck  depots.  Never  adull  moment.  Only  Holly  wood  could  come  closeto  what  we  went  through.  Or  like  at  Magicienne  Bay  when  Jap  shore  batteries  opened  upon  the  battleship  [REDACTED].  Or  when  we'd  watch  those  dark  hillsides  with  the  little  tongues  of  light  from  the  flamethrowers.  Bodies  were  always  floating  past  us,  Japs  and  Americans,  just  bobbing  meatballs  that  used  to  have  moms  and  home  towns.  One  time  the  ship  got  caught  in  a  gigan-  tic  oceanic  whirlpool.  Bing  Crosby  was  on  the  air  from  Radio  4a6170616e.  The  ship  swinging  in  huge  circles  toward  a  hole  in  the  center,  and  we're  listen-  ing  tothis  crooner  and  basically  say-  ing,  Fuck  the  consequences.  It  was  something,  that  war.  Like  I  say,  never  a  dull  moment.  You  don't  hear  much  about  it  anymore.  [REDACTED]  captured  the  country's  imagination.  Guys  like  me  and  Red  Wolf,  we  don't  exist.  Don't  exist.  One  day,  another  suicide  plane  came  in,  lost  its  bombs  before  it  reached  us,  then  the  canopy  peels  away,  then  a  wing,  it  came  in  over  the  stern,  bounced  sideways.  The  motor  came  loose  and  slid  across  the  ship,  killing  the  mount  captain  on  another  40-mm.  They  found  his  earphones  wrapped  around  a  roll  of  his  scalp  about  a  hundred  feet  away.  We  were  getting  pretty  squirrelly  every  time  they  called  general  quar-  ters.  We  were  getting  worn  out  by  hav-  ing  to  be  so  good  in  the  clutch  every  time  the  Nips  were  in  the  mood  to  play  ball.  But  it  didn't  matter.  The  war  was  over.  Truman  said  so  on  the  radio.  Hi,  I'm  Harry.  The  war  is  over.  Next  thing,  theJapssignedthe  peace  papers  on  board  the  [REDACTED].  We  let  them  keep  their  little  fucking  emperor.  Red  Wolf  and  I  are  standing  on  the  fan-  tail.  T'wo  nobodies  from  the  boonies.  We're  waving  goodbye  to  the  enemy  and  all  the  dead,  whoever  the  hell  they  were.  John  Red  Wolf  and  I  were  dis-  charged  from  the  United  States  Navy  at  the  Navy  receiving  station  in  San  Diego,  [REDACTED].  Red  Wolf  asks  this  blue-eyed  twenty-one-year-old  officer  if  he  had  a  good  idea  how  we  could  get  to  [REDACTED].  The  officer  said,  &quot;That's  your  problem,  sailor.&quot;It  was  obvious  to  both  of  us  this  character  hadn't  been  westof  [REDACTED],  much  less  Leyte  [REDACTED]  or  the  Solomons,  where  the  lead  really  flew.  Red  Wolf  remarked,  &quot;I  ain't  a  sail-  or  anymore,  Shit-for-brains.  I'm  an  Indian  trying  to  get  back  to  the  res-  ervation.  Care  to  step  outside  and  help  me  with  the  directions?&quot;  The  officer  froze  where  he's  at  and  we  went  out  into  the  [REDACTED]  sun-  shine.  It  seemed  like  everybody  and  6T  his  dog  wanted  to  welcome  us  home.  Something  about  that  didn't  set  right.  When  you've  been  through  a  lot  of  things  with  someone  that  are  hard  to  understand,  maybe  too  big  to  under-  stand,  you  get  fairly  close  to  that  per-  sonwithout  having  to  say  too  much.  Then  you  get  someplace  where  there  is  less  happening  and  you  start  to  feel  like  you  ought  to  say  something  but  nothing  comes  to  you.  That's  what  took  place  on  the  bus  ride  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;You  think  this  desert  will  ever  end?&quot;  I  asked  Red  Wolf.  &quot;How  should  I  know?&quot;  About  fourteen  hours  later,  Red  Wolf  says,  &quot;It  looks  a  lot  better  with  a  few  hills.&quot;  By  this  time  I  was  in  on  it,  what-  ever  it  was:  I  just  grunted.  When  we  hit  that  first  &quot;Welcome  to  [REDACTED]&quot;  sign,  we  were  staring  out  the  win-  dow  like  we  were  stuck  with  this  scenery.  I  remember  I  wanted  to  ask  John  what  he  was  going  to  do  with  the  rest  of  his  life.  I  just  didn't  dare.  The  last  place  I  really  knew  that  Cheyenne  was  on  the  Inland  Sea  of  4a6170616e.  You  don't  realize  how  much  you  miss  your  own  life  until  something  brings  it  back.  The  Gazette  had  a  pic-  ture  of  a  battleship  graveyard  near  Mo-  bile,  [REDACTED],  and  I  recognized  our  little  cruiser  in  the  pack  of  wrecked  ships.  I  had  to  go  out  in  the  yard  so  the  kids  didn't  see  me.  I'm  not  all  that  worried  anymore  what  anybody  sees  me  do  or  don't  do.  But  when  Karen  comes  down  the  driveway  I  really  feellike  I'm  afraid.  She  stops  her  car  under  the  4368696e61  wil-  low  across  from  the  porch.  I  can  tell  ex-  actly  who  is  with  her.  I'm  having  to  tell  myself  to  breathe  out.  I'm  watch-  ing  Karen.  She's  moving  her  hands  a  lot.  She's  having  to  talk  to  Red  Wolf.  He's  looking  down  and  listening.  He's  scared,  too. "