b" ND  so  I  lived  in  the  one  room  I  had  sublet  all  that  sum-  mer.  I  can  still  see  it.  There  was  a  couch,  a  grand  piano,  and  a  window  that  looked  out  onto  a  tree  and  the  back  of  Our  Lady  of  Pompeii  School.  (The  first  morn-  ing,  I  was  abruptly  awakenedby  a  loudspeaker  ordering  me  to  wear  my  hat  tomorrow,  to  [REDACTED]  I  was  confused;  I  didn't  think  I  had  a  hat.)  The  couch,  the  piano,  and  I  were  the  three  largest  objects  in  the  apartment,  and  we  felt  a  kinship.  It  was  very  quiet  when  the  school  term  ended.  I  slept  on  the  couch  and  set  my  orange-juice  glasses  on  the  grand  piano.  The  one  or  two  people  whom  I  knew  in  New  York  seemed  to  have  left  for  the  summer.  They  were  faculty  people  any  way-more  James'  friends  than  mine.  The  part-time  job  I  had  in  a  branch  of  the  Public  Library  was  over;  they  had  gone  on  summer  hours.  I  see  it  so  clearly-the  window,  the  couch,  the  glass  on  the  piano.  It  is  as  if  I  am  still  there  and  that  end-  less  summer  is  just  beginning.  I  pour  a  little  more  gin  in  my  orange  juice.  I  am  drinking  orange  juice  because  it  has  Vitamin  C,  and  I  don't  like  gin  straight.  Gin  is  for  sleep;  itis  infallible.  I  sit  on  the  couch  facing  the  piano  and  switch  the  light  off  behindme.  Through     the  leaves  of  the  tree  I  can  see  the  lighted  back  windows  of  Leroy  Street.  The  dark  air  coming  in  my  open  window  is  sweet,  smelling  of  night,  garbage,  and  cats.  Sounds  hover  just  outside,  hesitating  to  cross  the  sill.  I  lean  to  hear  them,  and  sit  in  the  window,  placing  my  orange  juice  on  the  fire  escape.  Down  through  the  black  iron  slats  I  can  dimly  make  out  one  ...  two,  three  neighborhood  cats  stalking  each  other,  brushing  through  the  highweeds,  converging  toward  some  lusty  surprise.  On  the  top  of  the  piano  there  is  a  metronome.  I  reachover  and  release  its  armature.  The  pendulum  swings  free-fock-  over,  fock-over.  I  sit  looking  out  across  the  night.  Tock  in  the  heavy,  slow  darkness.  Tock-over.  People  framed  in  the  Leroy  Street  windows  are  eating  at  tables,  talking  sound-  lessly,  passing  back  and  forth.  Yel-  low  light  filters  down  in  shadows,  through  the  leaves  and  onto  the  court,  darkly  outlining  the  high  wild  grass,  therusted  cans  and  gray  bottles.  I  reachover  and  slide  the  weight  all  the  way  down.  The  pen-  dulum  springs  away  from  my  hand,  ticking  wildly,  gathering  velocity.  Accelerando!  In  the  dark  below,  the  cats  dance.  From  &quot;The  Good  Humor  Man,&quot;  by  Rebecca  Morris   "