FICTION  SEVERAL  BIRDS  BYDAVID  FOSTER  WALLACE  POOR  Tony  Krause  had  a  seizure  in  the  fall.  It  happened  on  a  Gray  Line  train  from  Water-  town  to  Inman  Square,  Cam-  bridge.  He'd  been  drinking  co-  deine  cough  syrup  in  the  men's  room  of  the  Armenian  Foundation  Library  in  ghastly  central  Watertown,  MA,  for  over  a  week,  darting  out  from  cover  only  to  beg  a  scrip  from  the  hideous  Equus  Reese  and  then  dash  in  at  Brooks  Pharmacy,  wearing  a  simply  vile  ensemble  of  synthetic-fibre  slacks  and  suspenders  and  tweed  Donegal  cap  he'd  had  to  cadge  from  a  longshore-  men's  union  hall.  Poor  Tony  couldn't  dare  wear  anything  comely,  not  even  his  boa  or  the  Antitois'  red  leather  coat,  not  since  that  poor  woman's  bag  had  turned  out  to  have  a  heart  inside.*  He  had  simply  never  felt  so  beset  and  overcome  on  all  sides  as  on  the  black  July  day  when  it  fell  to  his  lot  to  boost  a  beating  heart.  Who  wouldn't  won-  der  Why  me?  And  his  Chinatown  con-  nection  Mr.  Wo  still  had  him  marked  for  ghastly  harm  as  a  consequence  of  that  horrid  delivery  mixup  with  Susan  T.  Cheese  last  winter,  since  which  Poor  Tony  hadn't  dared  show   one  boa  feather  east  of  Tremont  [REDACTED]  all  spring;  and  now  since  29  July  he  was  non  grata  at  Harvard  Square  and  environs,  and  even  just  the  mere  sight  of  an  Aigner  accessory  gave  him  palpitations.  Thus  Poor  Tony  hadno  way  to  cop  for  himself.  He  could  trust  no  dealer  enough  to  inject  his  wares.  His  for-  mer  friend  and  associate  Susan  T.  Cheese  was  now  no  more  trustworthy  than  the  hateful  Wo  himself;  he  didn't  even  want  SusanT.  Cheese  to  know  where  he  was.  He  began  drinking  cough  syrup.  He  managed  to  get  Bridget  Tenderhole  and  the  strictly  rough-trade  Stokely  Dark  Star  to  cop  for  him  on  the  wink  for  a  few  weeks,  until  Stokely  D.S.  died  in  a  Fenway  hospice,  and  then  Bridget  Tender-  hole  was  shipped  by  his  pimp  to  Brockton  under  maddeningly  vague  circumstances.  Then  Poor  Tony  had  read  the  dark  portents  and  swallowed  the  first  of  his  pride  and  hidden  himself  even  more  deeply  ina  Dumpster  complex  behind  the  1.  B.P.W.D.W.**  Local  #4  Hall  down  in  [REDACTED]  Point  and  resolved  to  stay  hidden  there  for  as  long  as  he  could  send  his  last  true  friend  and  as-  sociate  Lolasister  out  to  acquire  enough  heroin  to  chip,  accepting  w/o  complaint  the  shameless  rip-offs  he  perpetrated  upon  him,  until  October,  when  the  supply  of  retail  heroin  dried  horribly  up  and  the  only  people  even  copping  enough  to  chip  were  people  in  a  position  to  dash  personally  here  and  there  under  an  open  public-access  sky  and  no  friend,  no  matter  how  dear  or  indebted,  could  afford  to  cop  for  another.  Then,  wholly  friend-  and  connection-  less,  plus  extremely  low  on  funds,  Poor  Tony,  in  hiding,  began  to  Withdraw  from  Heroin.  Not  just  get  strung  out  or  sick.  Withdraw.  The  various  terms  echoed  in  his  head  with  the  simply  most  awful  sinister-footsteps-echoing-  in-deserted-corridor  quality.  With-  drawal.  The  Wingless  Fowl.  Kicking.  The  Old  Cold  Bird.  Poor  Tony  had  never  once  had  to  Withdraw,  not  all  the  way  down  the  sinister  deserted  corridor  of  Withdrawal,  not  since  he  first  got  strung  at  17.  At  the  very  worst  someone  kind  had  always  found  him  charming,  if  things  got  dire  enough  to  have  torent  out  his  charms.  Alas  about  the  fact  that  his  charms  were  now  at  low  ebb.  He  weighed  120  lbs.  and  his  skin  was  the  color  of  summer  squash.  He  had  terrible  shivering  attacks  and  also  perspired.  He  had  a  sty  that  had  scraped  one  eyeball  as  pink  as  a  bunny's.  His  nose  ran  like " b"twin  spigots  and  the  output  had  a  yellow-  green  tinge  he  didn't  think  looked  prom-  ising  at  all.  There  was  an  uncomely  dry-rot  smell  about  him  that  evenhe  could  smell.  In  Watertown  he  tried  to  pawn  his  fine  auburn  wig  w/  removable  chignon  and  was  cursed  at  in  Armenian  because  the  wighad  infestations  from  his  own  hair  below.  Let's  not  even  men-  tion  the  pawnbroker's  critique  of  his  red  leather  coat.  Poor  Tony  got  more  and  more  ill  as  he  further  Withdrew.  His  symp-  toms  themselves  developed  symptoms,  troughs  and  nodes  he  charted  with  mor-  bid  attention,  in  the  Dumpster,  in  his  suspenders  and  tweed  cap,  clutching  his  wig  and  coat  and  other  comely  habiliments  he  could  neither  wear  nor  pawn.  The  empty  municipal  Dumpster  he  was  hiding  in  was  new  and  painted  apple-green  and  the  inside  was  dimpled  iron,  and  the  Dumpster  remained  empty  and  unutilized  because  persons  declined  to  come  near  enough  to  utilize  it.  It  took  some  time  for  Poor  Tony  to  realize  why;  for  an  interval  it  had  seemed  like  a  break,  fortune's  one  wan  smile.  A  city  sanitation  crew  finally  set  him  straight  in  language  that  left  quite  a  bit  of  tact  to  be  wished  for,  he  felt.  The  Dumpster's  green  iron  cover  also  leaked  when  it  rained,  and  it  contained  already  a  colony  of  ants  along  one  wall,  which  Poor  Tony  had  ever  since  a  neurasthenic  childhood  feared  and  detested  in  particular,  ants;  and  in  direct  sunlight  the  quarters  be-  came  a  hellish  living  environment  from  which  even  the  ants  seemed  to  vanish.  With  each  step  further  into  the  black  corridor  of  actual  Withdrawal,  Poor  Tony  stamped  his  foot  and  simply  re-  fused  to  believe  things  could  get  or  feel  any  worse.  Then  he  stopped  being  able  to  anticipate  when  he  needed  to  as  it  were  visit  the  powder  room.  A  fastidi-  ous  gender-dysphoric's  horror  of  incon-  tinence  cannot  be  described.  Fluids  of  varying  consistency  began  to  pour  w/o  advance  notice  from  several  open-  ings.  Then  they  stayed  there,  on  the  Dumpster's  hot  dimpled  floor.  There  they  were,  not  going  anywhere.  He  had  no  way  to  cop.  His  entire  set  of  inter-  personal  associations  now  consisted  of  persons  who  did  not  care  about  him  plus  persons  who  wished  him  harm.  His  late  obstetrician  father  had  rended  his  own  clothing  in  symbolic  shiva  nine  years  ago  in  the  kitchen  of  the  Krause  home,  412  Mount  Auburn  Street,  Watertown.  It  was  the  incontinence  that  drove  Poor  Tony  out  of  the  Dumpster  for  a  mad  scampering  relocation  to  an  obscure  Ar-  menian  Foundation  Library  men's  room  in  his  old  home  district,  wherein  he  hung  his  coat  and  wig  carefully  from  the  hook  and  tried  to  arrange  a  stall  as  com-  fortingly  as  he  could  with  magazine  photos  and  cherished  knickknacks,  and  flushed  repeatedly,  and  sought  to  keep  true  Withdrawal  at  some  sort  of  bay  with  bottles  of  Codinex  Plus.  A  tiny  percentage  of  codeine  gets  metabolized  into  good  old  C,,  morphine,  affording  an  agonizing  hint  of  what  real  relief  from  The  Bird  might  feel  like.  Le.,  the  cough  syrup  did  little  more  than  draw  the  process  out,  extend  the  corridor-  slow  up  time.  Poor  Tony  Krause  sat  on  the  toilet  in  the  domesticated  stall  all  day  and  night,  alternately  drinking  and  gushing.  He  held  his  high  heels  up  at  night  when  the  staff  checked  the  stalls  and  turned  off  all  the  lights  and  left  Poor  Tony  in  a  dark-  ness  within  darkness  so  utter  he  had  no  idea  where  his  own  limbs  were  or  went.  He  left  that  stall  maybe  once  every  two  days,  scampering  madly  from  Equus  to  Brooks  in  cast-off  shades  and  a  kind  of  hood  or  shawl  made  pathetically  of  men's-room  brown-paper  towels.  Time  began  to  take  on  new  aspects  for  him  now  as  Withdrawal  progressed.  Time  began  to  pass  with  jagged  edges.  Its  passage  in  the  dark  or  dim-lit  stall  was  as  if  time  were  being  carried  by  a  procession  of  ants,  a  gleaming  red  mar-  tial  column  of  those  militaristic  red  Southern  ants  that  build  hideous  tall  boiling  hills;  and  each  vile  gleaming  ant  wanted  a  minuscule  little  portion  of  Poor  Tony's  flesh  in  compensation  as  it  helped  bear  time  forward  down  the  cor-  ridor  of  true  Withdrawal.  By  the  second  week  in  the  stall,  time  itself  seemed  the  corridor,  lightless  at  either  end.  After  more  time  time  then  ceased  to  move  or  be  moved  or  be  move-throughable  and  assumed  a  shape  above  and  apart,  a  huge  and  orange-eyed  wingless  fowl  hunched  incontinent  atop  the  stall,  with  a  kind  of  watchful  but  deeply  uncaring  personal-  ity  that  didn't  seem  keen  on  Poor  Tony  Krause  as  a  person  at  all,  or  to  wish  him  well.  Not  one  little  bit.  It  spoke  to  him  from  atop  the  stall,  the  same  things,  over  and  over.  They  were  unrepeatable.  Nothing  in  even  Poor  Tony's  grim  life  165  experience  prepared  him  for  the  experi-  ence  of  time  with  a  shape  and  an  odor,  squatting;  and  the  worsening  physi-  cal  symptoms  were  a  spree  at  Saks  compared  totime's  black  assurances  that  the  symptoms  were  merely  hints,  sign-  posts  pointing  up  at  a  larger,  far  more  dire  set  of  Withdrawal  phenomena  that  hung  just  overhead  by  a  string  that  unravelled  steadily  with  the  passage  of  time.  It  would  not  keep  still  and  would  not  end;  it  changed  shape  and  smell.  It  moved  in  and  out  of  him  like  the  very  most  feared  prison-shower  assailant.  Poor  Tony  had  once  had  the  hubris  to  fancy  he'd  had  occasion  really  to  shiver,  ever,  before.  But  he  had  never  truly  re-  ally  shivered  until  time's  cadences  jagged  and  cold  and  smelling  oddly  of  deodorant-entered  his  body  via  several  openings,  cold  the  way  only  damp  cold  is  cold  (the  phrase  he'd  once  had  the  gall  to  imagine  he  understood  was  the  phrase  &quot;chilled  to  the  bone&quot;),  shard-  studded  columns  of  chill  entering  to  fill  his  bones  with  ground  glass,  and  he  could  hear  his  joints'  glassy  crunch  with  every  slightest  shift  of  his  hunched  po-  sition,  time  ambient  and  in  the  air  and  entering  and  exiting  at  will,  very  cold  and  slow;  and  the  pain  of  his  breath  against  his  teeth.  Time  came  to  him  in  the  falcon-black  of  the  library  night  in  an  orange  Mohawk  and  merry  widow  w/  tacky  Amalfi  pumps  and  nothing  else,  spread  him  and  entered  him  roughly  and  had  its  way  and  left  him  again  in  the  form  of  endless  gushing  liq-  uid  shit  that  he  could  not  flush  enough  to  keep  up  with.  He  spent  the  longest  morbid  time  trying  to  fathom  whence  all  the  shit  came  from  when  he  was  ingest,  ing  nothing  at  all  but  Codinex  Plus.  Then  at  some  point  he  realized:  time  had  entered  the  shit  itself,  had  become  the  shit:  Poor  Tony  had  become  an  hourglass:  time  moved  through  him,  now;  he  ceased  to  exist  apart  from  its  flow.  He  now  weighed  more  like  110  lbs.  His  legs  were  the  size  his  comely  arms  had  been,  before  Withdrawal.  He  was  haunted  by  the  word  Zuckung-a  foreign  and  pos-  sibly  Yiddish  word  he  did  not  recall  hav-  ing  heard  in  civilian  life.  The  word  kept  echoing  in  quick-step  cadence  through  his  head  without  meaning  anything.  He'd  once  naively  assumed  that  going  mad  meant  you  were  not  aware  of  go-  ing  mad;  he'd  naively  pictured  madmen  as  laughing.  He  kept  seeing  his  sonless  " b"166  father  again,  stiffening  in  a  bronze  cas-  ket.  &quot;Chilled  to  the  Zuckung.&quot;  When,  then,  finally,  even  funds  for  the  codeine  syrup  were  exhausted,  he  still  sat  on  the  toilet  in  the  rear  stall  of  the  A.F.L.  100,  surrounded  by  previously  comforting  hung  habiliments,  the  fashion-  magazine  photographs  he'd  fastened  to  the  wall  with  tape  cadged  on  the  way  in  from  the  Reference  Desk,  sat  for  al-  most  the  whole  next  night  and  day,  be-  cause  he  hadno  faith  that  he  could  stem  the  flow  of  diarrhea  long  enough  to  make  it  anywhere-if  anywhere  to  go  pre-  sented  itself-in  his  only  pair  of  pants.  During  hours  of  lit  operation,  the  men's  room  was  full  of  old  menwho  wore  identical  brown  loafers  and  spoke  Slavic  and  whose  flatulence  smelled  of  cabbage.  Toward  the  end  of  the  second  med-  icationless  afternoon,  the  day  of  the  sei-  zure,  Poor  Tony  Krause  began  to  With-  draw  from  the  cough  syrup's  alcohol  and  codeine  and  demethylated  morphine,  as  well  as  the  original  heroin,  a  set  of  sen-  sations  for  which  not  even  his  recent  ex-  perience  had  prepared  him-the  alcohol  Withdrawal,  especially-and  when  the  true  D.T.-type  big-budget  visuals  com-  menced,  when  the  first  glossy  and  mi-  nutely  hirsute  army  ant  crawled  up  his  arm  and  refused  ghostlike  to  be  brushed  away  or  hammered  dead,  Poor  Tony  threw  his  last  bit  of  pride  into  time's  porcelain  maw  and  pulled  up  his  slacks  mortifyingly  wrinkled  from  twelve  days  puddled  around  his  ankles-made  what  slight  cosmetic  repairs  he  could,  and  donned  his  tacky  cap  with  its  Scotch-  Taped  scarf  of  paper  towels  and  lit  out  in  last-ditch  desperation  for  Cam-  bridge's  Inman  Square,  for  the  sinister  and  duplicitous  Antitoi  brothers,  their  Entertainment-N'-Notions-fronted  op-  erations  center  he'd  long  ago  vowed  never  again  to  darken  the  door  of  and  now  figured  to  be  his  one  place  of  very  last  possible  resort-the  Antitois,  Cana-  dians  of  the  [REDACTED]  subgenus,  sinister  and  duplicitous  but  when  it  came  down  to  it  rather  hapless  political  insurgents  he'd  once  availed  of  services  through  the  offices  of  Lolasister,  the  only  persons  anywhere  he  could  claim  somehow  owed  him  a  kindness,  since  the  affair  of  the  heart.  ***  On  Watertown  Center's  under-  ground  Gray  Line  platform,  when  the  first  hot  loose  load  fell  out  of  him  like  something  off  a  shelf  into  the  baggy  slacks  and  down  his  leg  and  out  around  his  high  heel-he  still  had  only  his  red  high  heels  with  the  crossing  straps  to  wear,  which  the  slacks  were  long  enough  to  mostly  hide-Poor  Tony  closed  his  eyes  against  the  ants  formicating  up  and  down  his  arms'  skinny  length  and  screamed  a  soundless  interior  scream  of  incontinent  soul-scalded  woe.  The  be-  loved  feather  boa  fit  almost  entirely  in  one  breast  pocket,  where  it  stayed  in  the  name  of  discretion.  On  the  crowded  train  itself,  then,  he  discovered  that  he'd  gone  in  three  weeks  from  being  a  colorful  and  comely-  albeit  freakishly  comely-person  to  being  one  of  those  loathsome  urban  specimens  that  respectable  persons  on  T  trains  slide  and  drift  quietly  away  from  without  even  seeming  to  notice  them.  His  shaw!  of  paper  towels  had  come  partly  untaped.  He  smelled  of  bilirubin  and  yellow  sweat  and  wore  eyeliner  that  simply  did  not  fly  if  one  needed  a  shave.  There  had  been  some  negative  urine  incidents,  as  well,  in  the  slacks.  He  had  never  in  his  life  felt  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  27/JULY  4,  1994  so  unattractive  or  sick.  He  wept  silently  in  shame  and  pain  at  the  passage  of  each  brightly  lit  public  second's  pincers,  and  the  driver  ants  that  boiled  in  his  lap  opened  needle-teethed  little  insectile  mouths  to  catch  the  tears.  He  could  feel  his  erratic  pulse  in  his  sty.  The  Gray  Line's  trains  were  of  the  trundling-  behemoth  type,  and  he  sat  all  alone  at  one  end  of  the  long  car  and  felt  each  slow  second  take  its  cut.  When  it  descended,  the  seizure  felt  less  like  a  separate  and  distinct  crisis  than  simply  the  next  exhibit  in  the  cor-  ridor  of  horrors  that  was  the  Old  Cold  Bird.****  The  first  thing  that  didn't  au-  gur  very  well  for  the  lobes  was  a  shower  of  spark-sized  phosphenes  from  the  ceil-  ing  of  the  swaying  train,  plus  a  fiery  vio-  let  aura  around  the  heads  of  the  respectables  who'd  quietly  retreated  as  far  as  possible  from  the  various  puddles  in  which  he  sat.  Their  clean  pink  faces  looked  somehow  stricken,  each  inside  a  hood  of  violent  flame.  Poor  Tony  didn't  know  that  his  silent  whimpers  had  ceased  to  be  silent,  was  why  everyone  in  the  car  had  gotten  so  terribly  interested  in  the  floor  between  their  feet.  He  knew  only  that  the  sudden  and  incongruous  smell  of  Old  Spice  Stick  Deodorant,  Classic  Original  Scent-unbidden  and  unexplainable,  his  late  obstetrician  father's  brand,  not  smelled  for  years-  and  the  tiny  panicked  twitters  with  which  the  unbrushable  red  ants  skittered  glossily  up  into  his  mouth  and  nose  and  disappeared,  each  of  course  taking  its  tiny  pincered  farewell  bite  as  it  went,  heralded  some  new  and  vivider  exhibit  on  the  corridor's  horizon.  He'd  become,  at  puberty,  violently  allergic  to  the  smell  of  Old  Spice.  As  he  soiled  himself  and     ***  The  way  Poor  Tony  Krause  became  in  any  way  associated  with  the  Antitois  was  that,  for  a  heavily  cut  bundle  to  split  six  ways,  Lolasister,  Susan  T.  Cheese,  P.  T.  Krause,  Bridget  Tenderhole,  Equus  Reese,  and  the  late  Stokely  (&quot;D.S.&quot;)  McNair  had  had  to  wear  identical  red  leather  coats  and  auburn  wigs  and  strapless  heels  and  go  and  hang  around  the  lobby  of  Harvard  Square's  Sheraton  Commander  Hotel  with  six  man-  nish-looking  women  in  the  same  wigs  and  coats  while  a  strikingly  androgynous  Que-  becer  insurgent  who  filled  out  her/his  red  leather  coat  in  a  way  that  made  Bridget  Tenderhole  dig  his  nails  into  his  palms  in  sheer  green  envy  came  throug\xef\xac\x81  the  Commander's  revolving  Lucite  doors  and  strode  purposefully  into  the  crowded  Epau-  let  Ballgoom  and  fired  two  rounds  of  9-mm  wadcutter  into  the  right  eye  of  the  Cana-  dian  Minister  of  Trade,  who  was  address-  ing  the  New  England  press  from  a  leaf-  shaped  rostrum.  The  decoys  were  then  required  to  mill  hysterically  in  the  lobby,  all  twelve  of  them,  and  then  hit  the  revolving  doors  and  disperse  in  a  dozen  different  vec-  tors  as  the  sharpshooting  Qu\xc3\xa9b\xc3\xa9cois  cross-  dresser  legged  it  out  of  the  Epaulet  Ball-  room  and  lobby  pursued  by  burly  federal  men  with  earplugs  and  Cobray  M-11  subs,  so  the  fedeilgiD  men'd  see  identical  epicene  figures  high-heeling  it  away  in  different  di-  rections  and  get  fuddled  about  whom  to  chase.  Lolasister  and  Poor  Tony  had  origi-  nally  met  the  Antitoi  Bros  (only  one  of  whom  could  or  would  speak,  and  who'd  been  in  charge  of  the  diversionary  aspects  of  the  Sheraton  Commander  operation,  and  had  clearly  been  subordinate  to  still  other  43616e616461ers  of  way  higher  I.Q.)-had  met  them  at  Inman  Square's  Ryle's  tavern,  which  had  Gender-Dysphoric  Night  every  second  Wednesday,  and  attracted  comely  and  unrough  trade.  In  actual  fact  the  seizure-a  kind  of  synaptic  firefight  in  Poor  Tony's  desiccated  temporal  lobes-was  caused  by  Withdrawal  not  from  heroin  but  from  plain  old  grain  alcohol,  which  was  Codinex  Plus  cough  syrup's  primary  ingredient  and  balm.  He'd  consumed  upwards  of  sixteen  little  eighty-  proof  bottles  of  Codinex  per  day  for  an  ex-  tended  period,  and  so  was  cruising  for  a  real  neurological  bruising  when  he  just  up  and  stopped.  " b"SEVERAL  BIRDS  the  plastic  seat  and  floor  once  again,  the  Classic  Scent  of  times  past  intensified.  Then  Poor  Tony's  body  began  to  swell.  He  watched  his  limbs  become  airy  white  dirigibles  and  felt  them  deny  his  author-  ity  and  detach  from  him  and  float  slug-  gishly  up,  snout-first,  into  the  steel-mill  sparks  the  ceiling  rained.  He  suddenly  felt  nothing,  or  rather  Nothing,  a  pre-  tornadic  stillness  of  zero  sensation,  as  if  hewere  the  very  space  he  occupied.  Then  he  had  a  seizure.  The  floor  of  the  subway  car  became  the  ceiling  of  the  subway  car,  and  he  was  on  his  arched  back  in  a  waterfall  of  light,  gagging  on  Old  Spice  and  watching  his  tumid  limbs  tear-ass  around  the  car's  interior  like  un-  done  balloons.  The  booming  Zuckung  Zuckung  Zuckung  was  his  high  heels  heels  drumming  on  the  soiled  floor's  tile.  He  heard  a  rushing  train-roar  that  was  no  train  on  earth  and  felt  a  vascular  roar-  ing  rushing  that  until  the  pain  hit  seemed  like  thegathering  of  a  kind  of  orgasm  of  the  head.  His  head  inflated  and  creaked  as  it  stretched.  Then  the  pain  (seizures  Aurz,  is  what  few  civilians  have  occasion  to  know)  was  the  sharp  end  of  a  hammer.  There  was  a  squeak  and  rush  of  release  inside  his  skull  and  something  shot  from  him  into  the  air  and  hung  there  and  sparkled.  His  father  knelt  beside  him  on  the  ceiling  in  a  well-  rended  T-shirt,  extolling  the  Red  Sox  of  Rice  and  Lynn.  Tony  wore  summer  taffeta.  His  poor  body  flopped  around  without  authorization  from  headquar-  ters.  He  didn't  feel  one  bit  like  a  pup-  pet.  He  thought  of  gaffed  fish.  The  gown  had  a  thousand  flounces  and  a  saucy  bodice  of  crocheted  lace.  Then  he  saw  his  father,  still  green-gowned  and  rubber-gloved,  leaning  to  read  the  head-  lines  offthe  skin  of  a  fish  a  newspaper  had  wrapped.  That  had  never  happened.  The  largest-print  headline  said  &quot;PUSH.&quot;  Poor  Tony  flopped  and  gasped  and  pushed  down  inside  and  the  utter  red  of  the  blood  that  feeds  sight  bloomed  red  behind  his  lids.  Time  wasn'tpassing  so  much  as  kneeling  beside  him  in  a  torn  T-shirt  disclosing  the  rodent-nosed  tits  of  a  man  who  disdains  the  care  of  his  once  comely  bod.  Poor  Tony  convulsed  and  drummed  and  gasped  and  fluttered,  a  fountain  of  light  all  around  him.  He  felt  a  piece  of  nourishing  and  possibly  even  intoxicating  meat  in  the  back  of  his  throat  but  elected  not  to  swallow  it  but  swallowed  it  anyway,  and  was  immedi-     ately  sorry  he'd  done  so;  and  when  his  father's  bloody-rubbered  fingers  folded  his  teeth  back  to  retrieve  the  tongue  he'd  swallowed  he  refused  absolutely  to  bite  down  ungratefully  on  the  hand  that  was  taking  his  food,  then  without  authoriza-  tion  hepushed  and  bit  down  and  took  the  gloved  fingers  clean  off,  so  there  was  rubber-wrapped  meat  in  his  chattering  teeth,  and  his  father's  own  head  exploded  like  an  exploding  star  into  light  between  his  gown's  raised  arms  and  a  call  for  Zuckung  while  Tony's  heels  drummed  and  struggled  against  the  widening  stir-  rups  of  light  they  were  hoisted  into  while  a  curtain  of  red  was  drawn  wetly  up  over  the  floor  he  stared  down  at,  Tony,  and  he  heard  someone  yelling  for  someone  to  give  him  air  with  one  fingerless  hand  on  his  belly  as  he  spread  and  bore  down  to  PUSH,  and  he  saw  the  legs  they  held  would  spread  until  they  cracked  him  open  and  all  the  way  in-  side  out  on  the  ceiling,  and  his  last  worry  was  that  red-handed  Poppa  could  see  up  his  dress,  what  was  really  there.  *  "