 THE  WRITER'S  [REDACTED]:  1948     HESE  cocktail  parties  were  a  modus  vivendi  in  them-  selves  for  which  a  new  philosophy,a  new  ethic,  and  a  new  etiquette  hadhad  to  be  devised.  They  were  neither  work  nor  play,  and  yet  they  were  not  at  all  beside  the  point  but  were,  on  the  contrary,  quite  indispensable  to  the  spiritual  life  of  the  artists  who  went  to  them.  It  was  possible  for  Emma  to  see  these  occasions  objectively,  after  these  many  months  of  abstention  from  them,  but  it  was  still  not  pos-  sible  to  understand  them,  for  they  were  so  special  a  case,  and  so  unlike  any  parties  she  had  known  at  home.  The  gossip  was  different,  for  one  thing,  because  it  was  stylized,  cre-  ative  (integrating  the  whole  of  the  garrotted,  absent  friend),  and  all  its  details  were  precise  and  all  its  con-  ceits  were  Jamesian,  and  all  its  prac-  titioners  sorrowfully  saw  themselves  in  the  role  of  Pontius  Pilate,  that  hero  of  the  untoward  circumstance.  (It  has  to  be  done,  though  we  don't  want  to  do  it;  'tis  a  pity  she's  a  whore,  when  no  one  writes  more  intelligent  verse  than  she.)  There  was,  too,  the  matter  of  the  drinks  which  were  much  worse  than  those  served  by  anyone  else,  and  much  more  plentiful.  They  dispensed  with  the  fripperies  of  olives  in  Mar-  tinis  and  cherries  in  Manhattans  (God  forbid!  They  had  no  sweet  teeth),  and  half  the  time  there  was  no  ice,  and  when  there  was,  it  was  as  likely  as  not  to  be  suspect  shav-  ings  got  from  a  bed  for  shad  at  the  corner  fish  store.  Other  species,  so  one  heard,  went  off  to  dinner  after  cocktail  parties  certainly  no  later  than  half  past  eight,  but  no  one  ever  left  a  party  given  by  an  Olympian  until  ten,at  the  earliest,  and  then  groups  went  out  together,  stalling  and  squabbling  at  the  door,  angrily  unable  to  come  to  adecision  about  where  to  eat,  although  they  seldom  ate  once  they  got  there  but,  with  the  greatest  formality  imaginable,  ordered  several  rounds  of  cocktails,  as  if  they  had  not  had  a  drink  in  a  month  of  Sundays.  But  the  most  surprising  thing  of  all  about  these  parties  was  that  every  now  and  again,  in  the  middle  of  the  urgent,  general  conversation,  this  cream  of  the  enlightened  was  horribly  curdled,  and  an  argument  would  end,  quite  literally,  in  a  bloody  nose  or  a  black  eye.  Emma  was  always  astounded  when  this  happened  and  continued  to  think  thatthese  out-  bursts  did  not  arise  out  of  hatred  or  jealousy  but  out  of  some  quite  un-  accountable  quirk,  almost  a  reflex,  almost  something  physical.  She  never  quite  believed  her  eyes-that  is,  was  never  altogether  convinced  that  they  were  really  beating  one  another  up.  It  seemed,  rather,  that  this  was  only  a  deliberate  and  per-  fectly  honest  demonstration  of  what  might  have  happened  often  if  they  had  not  so  diligently  dedicated  themselves  to  their  intellects.  Al-  though  she  had  seen  them  do  it,  she  did  not  and  could  not  believe  that  city  people  clipped  each  other's  jaws,  for,  to  Emma,  urban  equalled  urbane,  and  ichor  ran  in  these  Au-  gustans'  veins.  From  &quot;Children  Are  Bored  on  Sundays,&quot;  by  Jean  Stafford  "