 THE  WRITER'S  [REDACTED]:  1966     HE  balloon,  beginning  at  a  point  on  Fourteenth  Street,  the  exact  location  of  which  I  cannot  reveal,  expanded  northward  all  one  night,  while  people  were  sleeping,  until  it  reached  the  Park.  There,  I  stopped  it.  At  dawn  the  northernmost  edges  lay  over  the  [REDACTED];  the  free-hanging  mo-  tion  was  frivolous  and  gentle.  But  experiencing  a  faint  irritation  at  stopping,  even  to  protect  the  trees,  and  seeing  no  reason  the  balloon  should  not  be  allowed  to  expandup-  ward,  over  the  parts  of  the  city  it  was  already  covering,  into  the  &quot;air  space&quot;  to  be  found  there,  I  asked  the  engi-  neers  to  see  to  it.  This  expansion  took  place  throughout  the  morning,  a  soft  imperceptible  sighing  of  gas  through  the  valves.  The  balloon  then  covered  forty-five  blocks  north-  south  and  an  irregular  area  east-west,  as  many  as  six  crosstown  blocks  on  either  side  of  the  Avenue  in  some  places.  That  was  the  situation,  then.  But  itis  wrong  to  speak  of  &quot;situ-  ations,&quot;  implying  sets  of  circum-  stances  leading  to  some  resolution,  some  escape  of  tension;  there  were  no  situations,  simply  the  balloon  hanging  there-muted  heavy  grays  and  browns  for  the  most  part,  contrasting  with  walnut  and  soft  yellows.  A  deliberate  lack  of  finish,  enhanced  by  skillful  installation,  gave  the  surface  a  rough,  forgotten  quality;  sliding  weights  on  the  in-  side,  carefully  adjusted,  anchored  the  great,  vari-shaped  mass  at  a  number  of  points.  Now  we  have  had  aflood  of  original  ideas  in  all  media,  works  of  singular  beauty  as  well  as  significant  milestones  in  the  history  of  inflation,  but  at  that  moment  there  was  only  this  balloon,  concrete  particular,  hanging  there.  From  &quot;The  Balloon,&quot;  by  Donald  Barthelme    "