 b"80  FICTION  HEY  JOE  BY  BEN  NEIHART OE  was  newly  sixteen.  He  had  the  rosy  aspect,  and  the  swagger,  and  the  skinny  arms,  and  the  bad  repu-  tation.  He  was  a  brooder,  a  magazine  reader,  a  swaying  dancer  at  mellow,  jazzy  rap  parties.  He  kept  his  hair  cut  short  like  the  other  smoked-out  new-  bies  at  Metairie  Park  Country  Day,  and  the  only  shoes  he  wore  were  black  suede  Pumas.  School  had  just  let  out  for  the  La-  bor  Day  weekend,  so  Joe  was  home,  changing  clothes,  in  a  hurry  to  be  gone  before  his  mother  returned  from  work.  He  hated  to  leave  her  alone  on  a  Fri-  day  night,  with  her  books  and  the  cell  phone.  He  hated  the  actual  leave-tak-  ing  most  of  all-her  quick  kiss,  the  sound  of  the  front  door's  bolt  lock  when  he  closed  it  behind  him.  He  wished  she  didn't  spend  so  much  time  by  her-  self.  Why  didn't  she  hang  with  her  old  friends?  She  was  always  working-at  Tulane  Medical  Center,  in  the  fund-  raising  office,  asking  doctors  and  scien-  tists  and  presidents  of  Corporation  Whatever  for  money.  &quot;It's  gonna  suck  the  life  right  out  of  me,&quot;  she  sometimes  joked.  Joe  hated  her  saying  that,  be-  cause  he  could  see  that  it  was  true;  in  the  past  year,  it  seemed,  skin  and  muscle  hungmore  loosely  on  her  frame,  and  on  her  face,  even  though  shedid  exercises  in  the  high-ceilinged  ballroom  of  the  New  Orleans  Athletic  Center,  downtown.  He  wandered  about  the  living  room,  looking  forhis  glasses,  which  he  wore  only  at  home.  They  were  hidden  some-  where  beneath  the  spoils  of  his  mom's  latest  shopping  spree.  On  the  floor  were  neat  piles  of  new  compact  disks,  hard-  cover  novels  by  European  women  with  killer  black  hairdos,  and  shoeboxes.  Slung  over  the  furniture  were  silk  blouses,  palazzo  pants  in  four  shades  of  cream,  and  bras  and  panties,  all  of  them  with  price  tags  still  attached.  &quot;And  the  value  of  this  showcase  is  ...&quot;  Joe  said,  and  then  he  hurried  down  the  hall  to  the  bathroom.  In  his  underwear,  he  crouched  over  the  bathroom  sink.  It  was  his  pond,  shell-shaped,  with  separate  faucets  for  hot  and  cold  water.  The  mirror  was  steamproof,  and  flattering;  it  put  your  face  at  a  remove,  so  you  weren't  right  on  top  of  yourself  as  you  did  your  routine.  He  squirted  some  Dial  onto  a  wash-  cloth  and  worked  up  a  lather  to  freshen  his  underarms.  He  rubbed  on  some  de-  odorant  next,  then  washed  his  face  and  brushed  histeeth.  He  went  into  his  mom's  bedroom.  As  always,  it  was  neatly  set  up  for  when  she  would  come  home  this  evening.  The  king-size  bed  was  made;  a  pair  of  jeans  and  an  immaculate  white  T-shirt  and  fresh  panties  lay  on  the  pillow;  the  blinds  were  closed  to  keep  the  room  cool  in  the  late-summer  sunlight.  Joe  liked  the  feel  of  the  wood  floor  under  his  bare  feet.  He  hopped  onto  the  doctor's-office  scale  beside  the  dresser.  One  hundred  twenty  pounds.  Good,  he  toldhimself,  lean  and  portable.  He  pulled  his  mom's  door  shut  on  his  way  to  his  own  bedroom,  the  small-  est  room  of  the  house-even  smaller  than  the  bathroom.  He  liked  the  fact  that  when  he  lay  down  to  sleep  he  could  touch  the  walls  on  either  side  of  his  bed.  On  weekend  mornings,  his  mom  would  come  into  the  room  to  wake  him  up  early  so  they  could  spend  the  morning  together  in  the  back  yard,  sitting  on  the  stone  benches  in  her  little  rock  garden.  Between  them,  they'd  drink  a  pitcher  of  orange  juice,  and  then  Joe  would  go  in-  side  to  fix  enormous  tumblers  of  iced  tea,  to  clear  the  thickness  from  their  throats.  It  was  as  if  they  hadn't  missed  each  other  in  the  comings  and  goings  of  the  week.  Long,  contented  silences;  bare  feet  stretching  in  the  dewy  grass;  the  sun  pumping  higher  into  the  sky.  Now  Joe  pulled  the  front  off  one  of  his  waist-high  Sony  speakers,  which  had  been  hollowed  out  to  hold  his  busi-  ness,  the  top-shelf  weed  he  imported  from  Gainesville  and  soldto  his  friends.  He  unrolled  a  zip-lock  freezer  bag  and  took  a  deep  breath  of  the  sweet,  fear-  some  herb.  He  took  a  pinch  to  roll  a  quick  joint.  Time  to  give  fashion,  he  thought.  He  lit  up  and  collapsed  onto  his  bed.  He  didn't  have  to  turn  on  his  stereo;  music  presented  itself,  as  if  it  had  lain  dormant  in  the  joint:  &quot;Nickel  bag,  a  nickel  bag  ...&quot;  As  he  got  stoned,  he  looked  at  his  hands,  which  were  covered  with  scars.  His  legs  and  feet  were,  too.  Each  scar  was  the  proof  of  a  mountain-bike  tumble,  or,  in  one  case,  a  skid  across  the  coral  beach  on  FitzroyIsland  in  the  Great  Barrier  Reef,  where  they  had  gone  last  Christmas-Joe,  his  mom,  and  his  dad,  just  before  he  died.  They  had  pushed  Daddy's  wheelchair  to  the  edge  of  the  Coral  Sea.  &quot;A  sea  like  green  milk,&quot;  Daddy  had  said.  Joe  and  his  mom  hurtled  past  the  breaking  waves  and  dove  head  on,  grasping  handfuls  of  water,  racing,  floating.  When  they  were  finished,  they  stood  beside  Daddy,  drip-  pingonto  his  sunburned  legs  and  shoul-  ders.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  does  that  feel  good.&quot;  NOW  Joe  heard  the  mail  truck  stop  outside.  Friday  was  a  magazine  day.  He  drew  himself  out  of  bed,  sprayed  some  Lysol  around.  He  locked  up  the  house  and  galloped  down  the  driveway.  The  mailbox  was  rooted  in  a  pile  of  pink,  round  stones.  Joe  kicked  them  with  his  toe.  He  left  the  bills  and  letters  in  the  boxand  pulled  out  the  new  Vogue.  He  sat  down  on  the  slope  of  curb  where  his  driveway  met  the  street.  He'd  wait  here,  he  decided,  for  his  ride  to  the  Quarter,  where  it  was  his  habit  to  spend  Friday  nights.  He  set  the  magazine  on  his  bare  legs  and  took  stock  of  the  cover.  The  model  was  the  angel  of  Joe's  life.  Her  name  was  Linda,  and  the  cattish  regard  of  her  eyes  could  pull  you  out  of  a  funk.  Joe  had  been  following  her  career  for  five  years  now.  In  interviews,  Linda  said  that  all  she  had  ever  wanted  to  be  was  a  model;  she  didn't  want  to  bean  ac-  tress  or  a  singer  or  a  politician,  and  she  didn't  want  to  talk  about  her  charities  or  whatever,  and  she  talked  to  her  mom  " b"every  day,  and  they  talked  about  mod-  elling,  because  that  was  Linda's  job.  On  this  cover,  Linda  sat  in  the  grass;  she  wore  a  grape  velvet  dress  that  was  tight  in  the  bodice.  The  lightest  strands  of  her  hair-the  color  of  Coke  in  a  glass  full  of  melting  ice-caught  the  sun,  reminding  Joe  of  the  old  Dutch  society  paintings  that  he  had  admired  in  his  &quot;World  of  Art:  The  Netherlands&quot;  class.  In  those  paintings  the  background  was  usually  dark-an  inky,  enamel  cloud-  to  set  off  the  lighter  wires  of  the  sub-  ject's  hair  and  her  lucent,  honeycomb  ruff  and  her  knot  of  blue  pearls.  He  looked  into  Linda's  eyes  and  tried  to  imitate  her  smile.  He  pressed  his  knees  together  and  palmed  the  hair  on  his  legs  as  if  smoothing  a  skirt.  Then  he  noticed  the  small  type  near  the  bot-  tom  of  the  cover:  &quot;LINDA  EVANGELISTA  IN  LOVE.&quot;  He  turned  to  the  table  of  contents.  He  felt  as  if  the  boundary  be-  tween  his  fingers  and  the  page  were  dis-  integrating.  There!  He  paged  through  the  dark-hued  Steven  Meisel  photo-  graphs,  and  then  he  stopped.  A  two-  page  spread  of  Linda,  wearing  a  gray  cropped  sweater.  She  lay  beneath  her  boyfriend,  Kyle,  the  actor  from  &quot;T'win  Peaks,&quot;  on  a  blanket  that  was  suffused  with  morning  sunlight.  They  were  kiss-  ing,  openmouthed.  Her  hand-with  polished,  short  nails-gently  held  the  side  of  his  neck.  &quot;Work  it,  Linda,&quot;  Joe  said  happily,  and  then  he  lay  back  on  the  drive-  way,  holding  the  magazine  to  his  chest.  Music  billowed  from  the  house  next  door,  where  a  former  friend  of  his,  Al  Theim,  lived-a  Michael  Bolton  num-  ber,  sung  as  if  the  singer  had  taken  an  Uplift  enema.  Joe  howled  along  in  a  fake,  sour-bellied  voice:  &quot;Nothing  cures  a  broken  heart  like  time,  love,  and  tenderness.&quot;  T  was  just  like  Al  Theim  to  broadcast  that  kind  of  shit.  Joe  couldn't  believe  he'd  once  been  in  love  with  the  guy.  They  used  to  spend  afternoons  together  listening  to  Al's  older  brother's  leftover  records  from  the  early  eighties:  A  Flock  of  Seagulls,  Visage,Ultravox.  The  sing-  ers  wore  makeup,  and  their  hair  was  swept  up  in  whoopie  curls  and  banglets,  but  the  songs,  Joe  thought,  were  some  songs.  Longing  vocals  on  top  of  wet,  sparkly  keyboards:  &quot;Ultraviolet,  radio  lights,  telecommunication  .  .  .&quot;  One  warm  October  evening,  almost  four  years  earlier,  Joe's  mom  had  taken  Joe  and  Al  to  Scream  in  the  Dark,  a  haunted  house  set  up  in  two  gaping,  connected  barns,  across  the  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED].  Christian  kids  dressed  from  top  to  bottom  in  hunter-orange  directed  the  parking,  took  admission  money,  and  made  you  sign  an  injury-release  form.  It  felt  like  summer:  it  was  seventy-four  de-  grees  out  in  the  early  evening.  Joe  and  Al  wore  matching,  tartan-plaid,  flimsy  cotton  shorts.  Even  their  thin,  hairless  legs  matched.  &quot;What  kind  of  movie  is  this?&quot;  Joe's  mom  asked,  bending  over  a  picnic  table  tosign  her  form.  Despite  Joe's  warning,  she'd  got  herself  up  in  a  long  black  dress.  Joe  went  first,  on  his  hands  and     81  knees  into  the  entrance  tunnel.  Al  fol-  lowed,  and  then  Joe's  mom,  her  knees  bound  up  in  the  dress.  At  the  end  of  the  tunnel  was  a  ladder.  Joe  climbed  to  the  second  level,  a  pitch-dark  room  of  in-  determinate  size,  at  the  far  end  of  which  flashed  the  strobe-lit  entrance  to  the  next  room.  He  ventured  forward;  Al  and  Mom  followed.  &quot;I  thought  it  was  going  to  be  a  movie,&quot;  Mom  said,  and  they  all  laughed.  Then,  in  the  dark,  someone  touched  Joe's  shoulder.  He  shouted,  &quot;Al!  That's  not  funny.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  do  anything,&quot;  Al  whispered.  &quot;Someone  touched  me,&quot;  Mom  said.  &quot;Run!&quot;  Joe  hurried  through  the  lightlessness,  his  forearms  braced  in  front  of  him,  into  the  following  room.  The  floor  and  walls      " b"   and  ceiling  were  painted  in  a  black-and-  white  checkerboard  pattern;  the  strobe  light  worked  its  distortions.  Joelooked  over  his  shoulder  at  his  mom  and  laughed.  She  chanced  a  smile.  The  kids  in  front  of  him  were  trying  to  get  to  the  other  side  of  the  room,  but  they  couldn't  walk  straight.  The  floor  was  a  sharp  pyramid,  and  you  slid  backward  as  you  got  closer  to  the  peak.  Joe  looked  over  his  shoulder.  The  wall  behind  his  motherwas  moving.  There  was  a  man  in  a  checkerboard  costume,  face  painted  white,  sliding  along  the  wall.  He  reached  out  to  touch  her.  Joe  took  her  hand  and  dragged  her  into  the  next  room.  Here,  in  a  hyped-up  jungle,  where  the  recorded  sounds  of  squawking  birds  and  giggling  monkeys  played  deafen-  ingly,  Joe's  mom  disappeared;  she  had  found  the  emergency  exit  and  run  out.  Joe  couldhear  her  shouting,  &quot;I  thought  it  was  a  movie!&quot;  The  floor  was  made  of  foam  rubber,  and  covered  with  rolling,  shin-high  hurdles.  Al  took  Joe's  hand.  A  gorilla  watched  them  from  behind  a  vivid  palm  tree,  the  outline  of  which  was  glowing  purple.  Al  could  distinguish  the  hurdles  from  the  flat  stretches,  but  Joe,  at  first,  couldn't;  he  perceived,  instead,  only  the  fluorescent  foliage  painted  on  the  foam.  Al  shouted&quot;Jump!&quot;  at  each  hurdle.  There  was  nothing  like  holding  Al's  warm,  sweaty  hand.  At  what  looked  to  be  the  final  hurdle,  Joe  made  himself  fall,  and  pulled  Al  with  him.  They  wriggled  to  the  wall,Joe's  head  propped  on  the  foam  hurdle,  Al's  head  on  Joe's  chest.  They  watched  the  jumble  of  flapping  shirts  and  jeans,  listenedto  the  screams  and  laughter.  Al  touched  Joe's  face.  &quot;I  like  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  like  you  more  than  that,&quot;  Joe  said.  &quot;How  much?&quot;  Their  voices  stayed  in  the  space  be-  tween  their  faces,  and  Joe  found  him-  self  close  to  tears.  &quot;More  than  I  like  anyone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  day  in  school,  I  think  about  you.&quot;  Birds  called.  The  go-  rilla  moved  closer,  then  paused.  &quot;Man,  that  makes  me  feel  good,&quot;  Al  said.  &quot;Say  it  again.&quot;  And  then  there  had  been  a  kiss.  Now,  spread  out  on  his  driveway,  Joe  shuddered  and  shut  his  eyes  tight.  The  memory  had  returned  with  unwelcome  carnal  immediacy.  Al  Theim  hadn't  meant  a  word  he  said,  Joe  thought.  Al  Theim  was  just  some  wack  softhearted  guy  who  blew  a  few  sentences  out  of  his  mouth.  And  so  were  the  handful  of  guys  he'd  met  since.  Bullshitters.  Maybe  I'm  not  trying  hard  enough,  he  thought.  Maybe  tonight  I'll  talk  to  every  person  I  see  on  Decatur  Street,  just  bust  up  to  them  on  the  sidewalk  and  introduce  myself.  He  shifted  his  head  on  its  bed  of  grass  clippings  and  loose  gravel,  and  then  he  fell  asleep.  He  awoke  to  the  whoop  of  an  ap-  proaching  car  horn.  He  cracked  open  his  eyes  and  just  barely  lifted  his  head  to  see  who  it  was.  A  top-dollar  car,  reflecting  sunlight,  so  he  couldn't  make  out  its  color.  Friends?  Family?  He  dropped  his  head  back  and  shut  his  eyes.  The  car  pulled  onto  the  driveway  be-  side  him,  purred  for  a  moment,  and  then  went  silent.  The  door  opened,  and  his  mother  said,  &quot;Wake  up,  I'm  home.&quot;  &quot;Hey,&quot;  Joe  said.  She  walkedaround  the  car,  the  soles  of  her  low  heels  scratching  the  mac-  adam.  She  came  to  his  spot  beside  the  mailbox  and  crouched  down  next  to  him.  &quot;Where  you  going  tonight?&quot;  &quot;Out  with  friends.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  I  won't  ask.&quot;  She  settled  onto  her  knees  and  smoothed  her  lemony  cotton  lap.  &quot;I  said  out  with  friends.&quot;  &quot;I  said  I  won't  ask.&quot;  Joe  struggled  to  sit,  propping  himself  upon  one  elbow.  He  looked  at  his  mother's  shoes,  at  her  hose  and  her  dress,  at  her  knuckly  hands  and  freck-  led  arms-the  freckles  from  long  hours  of  weekend  sunbathing.  He  knew  why  she  liked  the  heat  beating  down  on  her,  emptying  her  thoughts.  He  appreciated  as  much  as  she  did  the  sensation  of  spilling  a  glass  of  iced  tea  down  your  throat  as  you  lay,  nearly  still,  on  a  chair  in  your  own  back  yard.  Joe  could  tell  that  she  was  tired.  It  was  Friday.  It  had  been  a  long  week.  He  put  his  hand  on  the  side  of  her  face.  Her  skin  was  soft,  and  cold  from  the  car's  A.C.  &quot;Stay  with  me  a  minute,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  hang  out  for  a  minute.&quot;  She  tilted  her  head  to  the  side,  catching  his  hand  between  her  cheek  and  shoulder  and  holding  it  there.  &quot;You  talk,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'd  be  so  grateful.&quot;  \xc2\xa2  "