 b"T8  FICTION  THE  GENTLEMAN  OM BY  MARTHA  McPHEE learned  to  fall  backward  into  the  arms  of  strangers  without  hesitating  orlook-  ingover  her  shoulder.  She  learned  to  fall  freely,  with  her  muscles  relaxed  and  her  mind  open,  inhalingthe  bitterness  of  sweat  along  with  stale  cigarette  smoke,  inhaling  the  thought  of  freedom,  with  her  hands  by  her  sides,  her  fingertips  clutching  the  fabric  of  her  dress,  her  red-  dened  lips  turned  up  ina  smile.  At  first  she  was  afraid  to  fall.  Shewanted  to  look  behind.  She  bent  at  the  waist  and  fell  awkwardly,  buckling  at  the  knees.  But  eventually  she  succeeded  and  fell  freely  into  waiting  arms  which  received  her,  catching  her  under  the  armpits,  catch-  ing  her  with  fingertips  pressing  into  the  soft  flesh  of  her  breasts.  A  human  pil-  lar,  she  fell  and  fell  and  fell,  until  she  fell  in  love  with  Anton.  Anton  was  her  therapist.  Mom  had  curly  hair,  golden  curls  the  color  of  sand.  She  was  thin,  with  a  big  bust  and  a  gap  between  her  teeth  and  green,  green  eyes.  She  wore  shiny  taffeta  dresses  with  big  flowers  and  no  sleeves.  Some  had  matching  jackets,  some  had  matching  sweaters.  The  colors  were  liv-  ing  colors  that  made  me  think  about  summer:  peach,  lemon,  strawherry.  Her  skin  was  ivory  and  smooth  and  there  was  no  hair  on  her  legs  or  under  her  arms.  It  was  comforting  skin,  the  type  that  showed  no  signs  of  stress-honest,  sincere  skin  that  wrapped  her  in  an  extra  layer,  protecting  what  was  inside.  Mom  did  her  falling  with  a  group  of  other  patients,  in  a  barnlike  old  house,  which  she  called  &quot;The  Farm.&quot;  Anton  was  an  itinerant  therapist  of  sorts  who  had  come  to  our  town  to  spread  the  Ge-  stalt  word  and  his  idea  of  women's  lib-  eration.  He  started  the  local  chapter  of  NOW  and  organized  sit-ins  in  pubs  that  excluded  women.  But  his  specialty  was  lonely  housewives.  He  taught  them  all  to  fall,  and  to  him  our  mother  fell.  We  didn't  meet  Anton  right  away.  We  were  on  the  outside,  near  the  road,  with  a  lemonade  stand  that  Mom  helped  us  set  up  so  that  we'd  have  some-   thing  to  do  while  we  waited.  We  went  there  on  Saturdays,  arriving  early,  before  the  others.  Mom  left  us  with  three  crisp  dollar  bills  and  an  old  cigar  case  filled  with  shiny  pennies  and  small  bits  of  to-  bacco.  The  dollars  were  meant  to  ap-  pease  us  so  that  we  wouldn't  complain  about  bad  business  at  the  end  of  the  morning,  when  she  would  emerge  from  Anton's  with  her  face  swollen  with  tears.  Daffodils  and  forsythia  were  in  full  bloom  and  the  scent  of  the  long  oniongrass  filled  the  air.  A  gentle  mist  lifted  from  the  ground  toward  thesky  and  all  around  were  trees.  The  house  was  gray  and  chipping  paint,  and  it  stood  at  the  end  of  a  short  dirt  driveway  pocked  with  potholes.  Ivy  climbed  up  the  walls,  and  the  windowpanes  were  \xc2\xa9  smoky  with  unpolished  glass.  One  win-  dow  was  lit-a  window  on  the  second  floor-by  a  blue  light.  &quot;He's  a  priest,&quot;  Julia  said.  The  words  came  from  her  mouth  ina  steam  of  warm  breath.  As  she  spoke  her  left  eye-  brow  rose.  Julia's  hair  curled  like  Mom's:  small  ringlets,  sausages,  that  fell  gently  to  just  below  her  ears.  Her  dark-blue  eyes  gleamed.  We  stood  by  the  lemon-  ade  stand,  a  little  chilled,  dressed  alike  in  our  yellow  rain  slickers  and  yellow  boots,  studying  the  blue  light.  A  car  rushed  by  on  the  road,  blowing  air  over  us.  &quot;A  Jesuit  priest.&quot;  I  hadn't  quite  pictured  him  as  a  priest.  A  man  dressed  in  a  cope  and  cas-  sock  wasn't  what  came  to  mind  when  I  tried  to  imagine  Anton.  &quot;He's  not  a  priest  anymore,&quot;  Jane  said.  Her  braids  hung  heavily,  pulling  her  face  long.  The  mist  had  left  little  beads  of  water  glistening  in  her  hair.  &quot;He's  a  Gestalt  therapist  now.&quot;  &quot;Deux  trois,&quot;  Julia  said,  actingsmart.  She  said  she  knew  everything.  &quot;Mom's  falling  in  love  with  him,&quot;  I  said.  I  didn't  know  what  a  Jesuit  was  then  but  I  could  tell  by  the  way  people  looked  when  Mom  told  them  he'd  been  a  Je-  suit  that  it  was  important.  Awe  seeped  over  their  faces  like  a  stain.  I  did  the  same  with  my  face,  pretending  I  under-  stood.  &quot;Gestalt&quot;  was  another  one  of  those  words  that  impressed  people  and  that  I  didn't  understand  butused  as  if  I  did.  I  toldteachers  and  classmates,  any-  one  who'd  listen,  that  he  was  a  Jesuit  and  a  Gestalt,  and  just  using  the  words  made  me  feel  big.  &quot;Gestalt  therapist,&quot;  Jane  would  correct.  We  were  serious,  serious  to  the  point  of  solemnity.  The  air  was  blue,  wet  and  cold  against  my  face,  and  suddenly  I  felt  unusually  clean.  I  thought  of  us  as  but-  tercups  standing  in  the  oniongrass  in  our  yellow  jackets  and  boots.  We  looked  odd  and  out  of  place  at  the  head  of  Anton's  driveway.  Odd  because  we  were  clean,  asif  there  were  something  jarring  and  peculiar  about  being  clean  and  be-  ing  there.  Everything  about  us  was  clean:  behind  our  ears,  the  napes  of  our  necks.  We  smelled  oflemons  and  witch  hazel,  and  our  clothes  smelled  of  bleach  and  starch.  Our  cotton  bobby  socks  were  clean,  softas  feathers  around  our  feet;  our  jumpers  were  clean;  our  shirts  were  clean;  even  the  grosgrain  ribbons  tied  around  our  hair  were  clean.  I  had  the  urge  to  run  deep  into  the  trees  and  roll  around  in  the  bitter  and  decaying  leaves,  and  then  I  began  to  laugh.  I  pointed  at  the  blue  light.  &quot;Do  you  think  they're  fucking?&quot;  I  said.  Julia  had  taught  me  that  word.  I  looked  at  Jane  and  Julia  and  they  laughed.  &quot;Kaaate!&quot;  they  said.  But  we  were  bored.  We  laughed  hard  and  loud,  wheezing  uncontrollably,  and  I  worried  that  we  would  disturb  Mom  and  Anton.  Then  I  hoped  that  we  would.  I  hoped  that  Anton  would  come  to  the  window  and  tell  us  to  be  quiet,  so  that  we  could  have  a  peek  at  him.  I  hoped  he'd  raise  the  window  and  rest  his  palms  on  the  sill  and  call  us  each  by  name-Jane,  Julia,  Kate-and  the  sounds  of  our  nameswould  come  to  us  with  the  warmth  of  his  reprimanding  words,  making  us  want  to  obey  him.  &quot;He'sa  philosopher.  And  he's  writ-  ing  a  book,&quot;  Jane  continued.  &quot;He's  got  five  children,&quot;  Julia  said.  &quot;He's  married,&quot;  I  blurted.  " b"&quot;Kate,&quot;  they  said.  We  weren't  sup-  posed  to  talk  about  that.  &quot;He's  a  Texan  and  a  poker  player,&quot;  Julia  said.  &quot;And  he's  a  big,  big  man  with  a  big,  big  head.&quot;  Her  eyes  widened  and  her  nostrils  flared.  &quot;And  he's  generous.&quot;  &quot;And  he  likes  to  eat.&quot;  Excitement  flooded  our  voices.  &quot;He  earns  over  thirty  thousand  dol-  lars  a  year  playing  cards,&quot;  I  said.  I  liked  saying  &quot;cards&quot;  instead  of  &quot;poker.&quot;  It  sounded  more  professional.  &quot;How  do  you  know  that?&quot;  Julia  snapped.  She  hated  it  when  I  knew  something  she  didn't  know.  But  the  image  of  Anton  that  I  held  and  hoped  for  was  the  image  of  a  dis-  tinguished  man,  tall  and  slender,  with  silver  graying  hair  and  long  protective  fingers,  a  gentle  man.  HE  familiar  coughing  of  a  muffler  warned  us  and  Jane  yelled  for  us  torun.  We  darted  through  thistles,  deep  into  the  forsythia.  Surges  of  panic  ex-  cited  us,  shooting  up  our  spines.  We  thought  we  could  vanish.  We  thought  the  color  of  our  raincoats  would  fuse  to-  gether  with  the  wilting  flowers  and  blend  us  into  hiding.  Thickets  and  rough  branches  surrounded  us  and  the  ground  was  soft  and  gushy  and  speck-  led  with  the  greens,  whites,  and  yellows  ofragweed  and  fallen  blossoms.  Jane  parted  several  branches  sothat  we  could  spy  on  the  people  arriving  at  the  house.  First  came  Delilah,  Anton's  secretary.  She  didn't  look  much  like  a  secretary,  in  her  miniskirt  and  stovepipe  patent-leather  boots.  Her  hair  was  long  and  tangled,  and  it  wrapped  around  her  shoulders  like  a  shawl  and  danced  with  the  leather  tassels  of  her  jacket.  She  parked  between  the  Cadillac  and  our  station  wagon  and  vanished  into  the  house,  like  Mom.  &quot;She's  a  hippie,&quot;  Julia  said.  Then  the  rest  of  the  people  came.  Therewas  something  strange  about  them,  though  they  weren't  that  different  from  Mom.  I  guess  it  was  because  they  were  all  so  similar.  Their  hair  was  nicely  brushed  and  curled,  held  back  with  bows  or  bandeaux,  coiffed.  They  wore  wrap-  around  skirts  or  slacks,  and  bright  Ar-  gyle  sweaters  with  initials  embroidered  on  the  side.  On  their  feet  were  rain  boots  or  loafers,  and  their  gait  was  de-  termined,  emphatic.  One  by  one  they  drove  in,  parking  hurriedly,  and  rushed  from  their  cars  to  the  door  as  if  pulled  by  some  mysterious  force.  They  were  housewives,  some  of  them  the  mothers  of  our  friends.  Mom  had  told  us  not  to  sell  them  lemonade.  She  said  it  might  make  them  self-conscious  to  know  that  weknew  they  were  in  therapy.  We  watched  until  the  last  car  came  and  the  last  person  went  inside  the  house.  Then  we  emerged  from  the  for-  sythia,  coming  into  a  new  space  that  was  somehow  larger  than  before,  filled  with  new  things.  A  telephone  pole  shot  into  the  sky,  blossoming  into  a  network  of  black  wires  that  webbed  their  way  in  and  out  of  the  trees.  Planks  of  wood  leaned  against  the  side  of  thehouse,  disorga-  nized  and  ugly.  I  imagined  rusty  nails  in  hidden  spots  and  thought  about  tetanus  and  rabies  and  lockjaw.  Jane  had  read  about  lockjaw.  Lockjaw  from  rusty  nails,  lockaw  from  stepping  in  animal  excre-  ment,  lockaw  from  licking  our  dirty  fin-  gers.  She  told  us  to  be  careful.  She  warned  us  that  lockaw  was  easy  to  con-  tract  at  a  farm.  She  told  us  that  our  jaws  would  convulse  and  our  muscles  would  spasm  and  our  mouths  would  lockshut  permanently.  &quot;A  car's  coming!  A  car's  coming!&quot;  Julia  sang,  running  across  the  road.  The  first  car  to  stop  for  us  all  morning,  in  fact  the  first  car  ever  to  stop  for  our  lemon-  ade.  Julia's  smile  was  electric  and  her  cheeks  were  rosy.  Her  curls  stuck  in     T9  wisps  to  her  forehead.  As  the  car  ap-  proached,  she  waved  her  hands  furi-  ously.  Even  when  she  was  clumsy,she  moved  with  grace.  She  threw  off  her  rain  jacket  and  rolled  up  her  sleeves.  I  followed  her,  but  Jane,  who  was  the  old-  est,  stayed  behind.  Shewas  above  sell-  ing  lemonade.  She  said  the  only  reason  she  came  along  was  to  baby-sit  us.  Ever  since  Dad  left,  she  had  pretended  she  was  our  mother.  Not  so  long  before,  Julia  had  made  me  her  best  sister.  &quot;This  is  a  secretpact,&quot;  she  had  warned.  &quot;Can't  tell  anyone.  Spe-  cially  Jane.&quot;  We  were  sitting  on  the  bathroom  counter  with  our  feet  in  the  sinks,  washing  them  before  bed.  The  fluorescent  light  buzzed  overhead,  mak-  ingthe  bathroom  incredibly  bright.  In  the  mirror  our  skin  was  ugly,  betrayed  by  the  light,  pasty  and  pale.  &quot;I  won't  tell  Jane,&quot;  I  promised.  Jane  and  Julia  fought  a  lot  and  I  swung  be-  tween  them  like  a  pendulum.  I  liked  swinging  between  them.  For  the  most  part  I  always  had  someone  on  my  side.  &quot;Jane's  a  bitch,&quot;  Julia  said.  &quot;I'mthe  one  who  always  does  special  things  for  you.&quot;  Then  Julia  stuck  me  with  a  sew-  ing  needle,  quickly,  in  the  fingertip,  and  then  stuck  herself.  Small  beads  of  blood  popped  from  our  skin  and  she  clamped  our  fingers  together,  mixing  theblood,  and  pressing  them  hard  until  they  turned  purple.  When  I  thought  it  was  all  " b"80  over,  she  put  my  finger  in  her  mouth  and  hers  in  mine.  &quot;We  can  become  so  close,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;By  drinking  each  other's  blood  we  can  become  each  other.&quot;  A  BLACK  Lincoln  Continental  ap-  proached.  Dull  and  dirty.  I  stood  on  one  side  of  the  road  and  Julia  on  the  other.  The  car  slid  quietly  be-  tween  us,  as  calmly  as  an  ocean  liner  gliding  through  the  sea.  Julia  disap-  peared  and  I  heard  the  soft,  mechani-  cal  murmur  of  an  electric  window  go-  ing  down.  I  waited.  &quot;Kate!  Kate!&quot;  Julia  commanded  sud-  denly,  appearing  at  the  front  end  of  the  car.  &quot;Get  a  cup  of  lemonade.  This  gentleman  wants  a  cup  of  lemonade.  He'll  pay  us  twenty  cents  for  a  cup!&quot;  She  looked  at  me  from  across  the  hood.  &quot;And  he's  gonna  pay  us  to  do  him  a  fa-  vor.  Get  him  a  cup!&quot;  Her  smile  grew  big.  She  snatched  the  lemonade  from  my  hand  and  passed  it  into  the  car.  Her  arm  vanished  for  a  second  and  then  reap-  peared  with  her  fist  clutching  a  dollar  bill.  I  wanted  to  look  in  the  car  but  she  wouldn't  move  from  the  window.  Hog,  I  thought.  &quot;Look,  Katy.&quot;  She  held  the  dollar  up  proudly.  &quot;He  wants  us  to  watch  him  change.  He  needs  to  fix  his  car  and  wants  us  to  make  sure  that  nobody  peeks  at  him  while  he's  changing  into  his  old  clothes.&quot;  She  spoke  so  fast,  with  assurance.  &quot;Where  do  we  have  to  go?&quot;  I  said,  suspiciously.  I  wasn't  going  into  any  woods  with  this  man.  Mom  warned  us  about  men  that  raped  and  killed.  &quot;Raped  and  killed&quot;:  she  said  it  a  thousand  times  so  we'd  be  careful.  But  Julia  was  older  and  knew  everything.  I  watched  the  dol-  lar  in  Julia's  fist,  wondering  how  much  he'd  pay  us,  hoping  it  would  be  more  than  just  a  dollar,  thinking  I'd  bargain  with  him  if  he  didn't  offer  more.  &quot;Nowhere.  Just  here,&quot;  she  said.  Then  she  grabbed  my  arm  and  pulled  me  near  her,  and  together  we  leaned  through  the  car  window.  She  held  my  hand.  I  felt  warm  and  special.  It  was  dark  inside  the  car.  A  thick  dust  lay  on  the  dashboard,  broken  with  smudges  and  fingerprints.  In  several  places  stuffing  poked  from  rips  in  the  seat.  The  radio  was  turned  on,  and  mu-  sic  struggled  through  static.  Stacks  of  browned  newspapers  littered  the  back  seat  and  plastic-foam  coffee  cups  spilled  from  paper  bags  lying  on  the  floor.  I  imagined  there  would  be  a  lot  of  coins  in  that  car.  The  gentleman  was  oldish  and  the  skin  on  his  face  was  pulled  taut,  as  if  he'd  been  in  the  sun  too  much.  He  had  very  little  hair,  a  halo  of  white  fringe,  and  a  large  freckled  bald  spot.  From  his  nose  dangled  something  disgusting  that  I  couldn't  make  out,  and  I  thought  I  should  tell  him  about  it.  &quot;This  is  my  best  sister.  She's  my  very  best  sister  and  we  are  true  blood  sisters,&quot;  Julia  said,  speaking  as  if  she  had  found  something  great  like  a  piece  of  blue  sea  glass  on  the  beach.  I  knew  I  should  feel  privileged  that  she  was  including  me.  &quot;You  have  something  coming  out  of  your  nose,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Kate!&quot;  Julia  snapped.  &quot;Kate&quot;  really  sounded  a  lotlike  &quot;hate&quot;  when  she  said  it  that  way.  &quot;She's  just  young,&quot;  Julia  apologized.  I  hated  it  when  she  said  I  was  &quot;just  young.&quot;  I  didn't  feel  very  young.  I  was  eight.  &quot;Uh-huh,&quot;  the  gentleman  said,  star-  ing  at  me.  The  whites  of  his  eyes  were  yellow  and  filmy.  I  thought  he'd  wipe  his  nose,  but  he  didn't.  He  just  left  the  thing  there,  as  if  he  liked  having  something  hanging  from  his  nose.  I  couldn't  look  at  his  nose.  &quot;That's  a  ...  real  nice,  really  quite  nice,&quot;  he  said.  There  was  astrange  smell  in  the  car:  a  smell  of  old  milk  and  smoke.  &quot;It's  a  pleasure  to  meet  you,  little  missy.  You're  just  as  charming  as  your  sister.&quot;  He  reached  for  my  hand  and  kissed  it  on  the  knuckles.  His  lips  were  wet  and  his  whiskers  pricked  my  skin.  I  was  afraid  the  thing  would  fall  onto  my  hand,  but  it  didn't.  &quot;Now,  uh,  yes,  I  could  use  another  cup  of  this  lemonade.&quot;  His  words  drew  out  long  and  he  stumbled  over  some  of  them.  &quot;How  'bout  gettin'  me  another  cup  of  this  lemonade?  Yeah  .  ..  why  don't  you,  uh,  run  along?&quot;  His  eyes  caught  hold  of  mine  again  and  he  handed  me  the  cup.  &quot;But  aren't  we  going  to  help  you?  Don't  you  need  to  fix  your  car?&quot;  I  asked.     THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  18,  1994  The  engine  was  still  running  and  the  car  vibrated.  &quot;When  you  return,  pretty  miss.&quot;  &quot;Go  on,Katy.&quot;  Julia  shoved  me  gen-  tly  until  I  drewaway  from  the  car.  I  could  imagine  her  saying,  &quot;You've  gone  and  ruined  everything  and  now  I'll  have  to  fix  it.&quot;  I  was  mad  that  I'd  mentioned  the  nose.  I  walked  back  across  the  road,  leav-  ing  Julia  with  the  gentleman.  I  wished  I'd  told  him  I  thought  it  was  snot  com-  ing  from  his  nose.  The  only  reason  I  didn't  was  because  I  was  trying  to  be  po-  lite  and  the  only  other  word  for  snot  I  could  think  of  was  &quot;booger.&quot;  My  arms  felt  heavy  swinging  by  my  side-awk-  ward  and  uncomfortable,  as  if  I  couldn't  carry  myself  properly,  and  I  was  afraid  that  he'd  bewatching  me.  I1  could  feel  his  eyes  on  my  back  and  it  made  my  legs  twitch.  Julia  can  get  the  gentleman  a  cup  of  lemonade,  I  thought.  Julia  can  watch  the  gentleman  change.  Jane  picked  forsythia,  placing  the  boughs  in  her  arms.  &quot;Jane!&quot;  I  yelled  and  she  turned  to  me.  &quot;What's  wrong?&quot;  she  asked,  screwing  up  her  eyes,  confused.  &quot;Didn't  you  make  a  sale?&quot;  Her  face  was  alert,  ready  to  react.  &quot;Julia's  selfish,&quot;  Isaid.  That's  what  Mom  said  to  us  whenwe  asked  for  too  much.  &quot;You're  just  figuring  that  out?&quot;  Jane  said,  relaxing.  Her  shoulders  slumped  forward.  &quot;I've  been  tryingto  tell  you  that  for  centuries.&quot;  I  helped  her  pick  forsythia,  twisting  the  branches  to  break  them  off.  They  splintered  into  green  and  white  flesh  and  I  yanked  and  yanked.  There  was  a  difference  between  being  with  Julia  and  being  with  Jane.  Jane  was  quiet  and  she  didn't  poke  at  me  all  the  time  and  boss  me  around.  Unless  she  was  mad  at  you,  she'd  just  let  you  be.  Sometimes  she'd  speak  and  say  something  really  smart,  and  you  could  tell  she  thought  a  lot.  Nothing  got  by  Jane.  Sometimes  I  thought  I'd  rather  be  Julia  and  tried  to  be  just  like  her.  Other  times  it'd  be  Jane  I  imitated.  Now  I  imitated  Jane.  I  even  put  on  her  long  face.  But  God,  I  wished  I  hadn't  mentioned  the  nose.  Five,  ten  minutes  passed.  I  looked  at  the  car,  feeling  proud,  glad  to  make  Julia  wait.  It  began  to  drizzle  and  the  rain  made  sounds  in  the  leaves.  I  practiced  making  long  faces,  stretching  my  mouth  this  way  and  that,  raising  my  eyes.  " b'"What are you doing with your face?" "Nothing."  A  car  door  slammed  and  wheels  screeched,  burning  rubber,  churning  over  pavement,  and  the  LincolnConti-  nental  vanished  in  a  cloud  of  exhaust.  We  turned,  knees  trembling,  afraid  Julia  would  be  gone.  &quot;Raped  and  killed&quot;  flashed  across  my  mind.  But  she  was  standing  where  I  had  left  her,  frozen  for  a  minute,  with  her  hands  in  her  hair.  Slowly,  she  began  tocross  the  road.  Slowly,  she  leaned  down  for  her  ribbon,  which  lay  on  the  road,  and  then  she  rose  and  erupted  into  tears.  Mom  rushed  from  the  house  out  onto  the  little  front  porch.  She  stood  there  for  the  instant  it  took  Julia  to  run  screaming  from  the  road.  Jane  and  I  fol-  lowed,  stopping  a  little  way  back  from  the  steps.  Mom\'s  taffeta  dress  was  wrinkled  at  thewaist  and  her  lipstick  was  gone.  Her  arms  opened  for  Julia  and  Julia  collapsed  into  them.  Mom\'s  hand  caressed  the  back  of  Julia\'s  head.  She  looked  past  Julia\'s  curls  to  Jane,  slapping  Jane  with  her  eyes.  Jane\'s  face  became  long  and  she  looked  ugly.  Her  eyes  be-  came  big  and  dense,  taking  over  her  face  until  it  seemed  she  just  hadtwo  enor-  mous  brown  eyes.  The  rain  plastered  her  hair  to  her  skull.  Even  her  braids  hung  awkwardly,  like  two  fraying  ropes.  The  flowers  drooped  in  her  arms.  &quot;Eve!  Eve,  is  everything  all  right?&quot;  said  voices  from  the  upstairs  window  and  then  three  women\'s  faces  appeared  up  there.  Their  hair  wasn\'t  so  neat  any-  more.  Their  ribbons  and  bandeaux  were  gone.  They  smiled,  panicky  smiles,  and  one  of  the  women\'s  teeth  sparkled  sil-  very  with  braces.  Their  bodies  smushed  together  at  the  window  and  I  stared,  hoping  I\'d  recognize  one  of  the  moth-  ers  so  that  I  could  make  her  feel  uncom-  fortable,  but  I  didn\'t.  &quot;Don\'t  worry,&quot;  Mom  called.  She  tilted  her  head  up  to  them.  &quot;It\'ll  be  all  right.  Jane  just  wasn\'t  watching  the  girls.&quot;  I  wished  I  hadn\'t  taken  Jane\'s  side.  I  was  afraid  I\'d  get  the  silent  treatment,  too,  now,  and  Julia  would  be  favored  for  days.  The  screen  door  creaked  open  slowly  and  a  man  came  out.  Anton:  as  big  as  Julia  had  described  him.  Big  round  head.  Big  tall  body.  Big  fingers.  I  thought  about  poker  and  the  thirty  thousand.  Then  I  thought  about  God-   I  don\'t  know  why.  Maybe  because  Julia  had  mentioned  that  he  was  a  priest.  I  didn\'t  know  much  about  God.  But  watching  Anton  appear,  I  just  thought  about  Him,  and  then  the  thought  van-  ished  and  I  felt  spooked  and  smelled  the  stink  of  rotting  toadstools  that  came  from  some  old  sycamores  not  far  from  the  forsythia.  Anton  squinted  his  eyes  and  a  deep  furrow  ran  across  his  brow,  and  he  bent  his  knees  to  squat  down  next  to  Julia  and  Mom.  I  could  hear  his  joints  cracking.  His  hair  was  thin  and  graying.  Thick  sideburns  striped  his  cheeks,  and  his  shirt  was  an  explosion  of  oranges,  yel-  lows,  purples,  and  greens.  The  sleeves  were  pushed  up  to  his  elbows  and  he  wore  a  pair  of  faded  jeans  that  hung  low  on  his  hips.  &quot;What\'s  wrong,  babe?&quot;  he  asked.  What\'s  wrong  babe.  Babe.  His  words  rushed  through  me.  &quot;Babe.&quot;  Tender.  He  had  a  Southern  accent  that  was  some-  how  tough  and  strong  yet  protective.  He  bent  down  close  to  Julia  and  ran  his  fin-  gers  through  her  hair,  patting  her  head.  Her  face  was  messy  with  tears  and  drool.  Mom  watched,  pressing  her  thumbnail  into  her  lip.  Anton\'s  mouth  touched  Julia\'s  ear  and  her  crying  stopped.  His  lips  on  her  ear  whispering  into  it.  I  felt  as  if  his  lips  were  touching  my  ear,  wet  and  warm  and  soft,  and  I  had  that  shivery  feeling  that  a  whisper  sends  through  your  en-  tire  body.All  the  way  to  your  toes.  Julia  sank  against  him  and  he  pulled  her  deeper  into  him.  She  was  tinyin  com-  parison.  They  whispered  back  and  forth  and  I  wished  that  I  were  her.  &quot;It\'ll  be  all  right,&quot;  he  said,  rising.  Anton  loomed  above  us.  His  hand  fanned  out  on  top  of  Mom\'s  head.  On  his  ring  finger  there  was  an  enormous  turquoise  ring.  I  thought  of  Julia\'s  hand  reaching  inside  the  car.  I  thought  of  my  hand  with  the  whiskers  pressing  into  it.  I  wanted  to  know  what  the  gentleman  had  done.  I  wondered  if  he\'d  done  something  gross.  I  almost  hoped  he  had,  because  I  knew  I\'d  hear  about  it  in  de-  tail  if  he\'d  done  something  gross  and  if  she  learned  something  from  it  I  knew  she\'d  try  to  teach  me.  Anton  noticed  Jane  and  me.  He  winked.  &quot;It\'ll  be  all  right,&quot;  he  repeated,  a  little  louder,  for  us.  WE  fell  quickly  to  Anton,  more  quickly  than  Mom.  We  were  limber,  falling  freely  and  our  world  opened  up,  suddenly  becoming  brighter.  Mom  wanted  it  that  way,  the  four  of  us  as  one,  falling,  falling  freely.  Mom  said  Anton  would  love  us,  promised  to  God  it  would  be  the  truth.  And  we  fell  and  fell  and  fell,  for  the  pure  sensation  of  it,  trusting  until  later.  We  were  still  young  enough  not  to  hesitate  or  question,  not  to  look  behind.  *  '