 IT  was  a  hot,  dusty  summer  day  in  FICTION  DIZZY  BY  TOM  DRURY  it.  The  way  they  saw  it,  no  one  cared  about  them  enough  to  hurt  them.  In  the  movies  it  always  seems  that  the  members  of  criminal  organizations  have  nothing  betterto  do  than  track  down  and  shoot  turncoat  accountants,  but  in  the  Em-  monses'  experience  the  opposite  was  true.  During  their  rare  visits  to  the  States,  though,  Paul  and  Mary  found  it  difficult  to  get  along  with  Paul's  family.  His  mother  and  father,  and  especially  his  aunts  and  uncles  and  cousins,  seemed  both  jealous  of  Mary's  Belgian  relatives  and  hostile  to  Mary  and  Paul  themselves.  In  fact,  Paul's  family  had  never  really  cared  for  Mary,  who,  even  before  her  exile  among  French  speakers,  had  sometimes  lapsed  into  French  for  no  apparent  rea-  son.  And  Paul  had,  after  all,  cast  a  sub-  stantial  cloud  over  the  family  by  break-  ing  the  law  and  then  informing  on  people  who  had  once  called  him  their  friend.  After  a  week  of  visiting  Paul's  relatives  in  the  [REDACTED]  suburbs,  Paul  and  Mary  were  always  more  than  ready  to  escape  to  New  Hampshire,  where  they  owned  forty  acres  of  meadows  and  softwoodsnot  far  from  Carr  Mountain  and  the  Polar  Caves.  THEY  looked  at  menus  silently  and  ordered  lunch.  Mary  let  her  atten-  tion  drift  out  the  window.  &quot;There  he  is,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'There's  that  dog  again.  You  canonly  see  him  when  he's  on  this  side  of  the  car.&quot;  Paul  looked.  He  saw  a  tan  dog  whose  neck  was  twisted  so  that  the  bottom  of  the  jawwas  pointing  almost  straight  up.  The  dog  seemed  to  be  staggering  in  circles.  It  would  climb  up  on  the  passen-  ger  seat  again  and  again,  only  to  stumble  down  onto  the  floorboard  each  time.  &quot;He  doesn't  look  very  good,&quot;  Paul  conceded.  &quot;He  must  be  suffocating.&quot;  &quot;We  don't  know  that,  Mary.&quot;  By  the  time  their  food  came,  some  other  people  in  the  diner  had  gathered  around  the  window,  so  the  dog's  pre-  dicament  was  less  easy  for  Paul  to  dis-  miss.  A  thin  man  in  a  Red  Sox  cap  spoke  up  loudly  to  ask  if  the  driver  of  the  car-a  gray  Audi  with  a  Princeton  sticker  in  the  back  window-was  in  the  diner.  There  was  no  answer.  &quot;I  can't  believe  some  of  these  people,&quot;  said  a  blond  woman  who  held  a  pack  of  cigarettes  in  one  hand  and  a  lighter  in  the  other.  &quot;You  don't  leave  a  dog  with  the  windows  rolled  up  in  heat  like  this.&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  right,&quot;  said  an  old  man  whom  some  of  the  others  had  referred  to  as  Judge,  although  he  did  not  look  like  a  member  of  the  judiciary.  &quot;And  they're  from  Princeton,&quot;  added  the  thin  man.  &quot;They  have  education,  all  right,  but  no  common  sense,&quot;said  the  woman  who  gripped  her  smoking  materials  like  pistols.  &quot;You  know  it,  Bonnie,&quot;  said  theold  man.  &quot;Some  people  are  so  smart  they  just  freeze  up-don't  know  how  to  act.&quot;  &quot;That  poor  animal,&quot;  said  Mary.  She  and  Paul  tried  to  go  back  to  their  food,  but  all  they  couldthink  about  was  the  suffering  dog.  They  left  ten  dollars  on  the  table  and  went  out  of  the  diner  and  down  a  set  of  stairs  to  the  parking  lot.  The  windows  of  the  Audi  were  shut,  the  doors  locked.  The  car  had  been  washed  not  long  ago,  and  its  gleaming  charcoal  surface,  dusted  with  fine  sand,  seemed  especially  closed  to  them.  Paul  and  Mary  stood  and  stared  at  the  dog,  who  continued  his  hypnotic  climbing  and  falling,  and  whose  ear,  they  could  now  see,  was  turned  inside  out.  &quot;He  seems  drunk,&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;Of  course  he  does,&quot;  said  Mary.  &quot;Li-  quor  cuts  the  flow  of  oxygen  to  the  brain.  Oh,  Paul,  the  poor  dog!  He  can't  breathe!  He  can't  breathe,  and  now  he's  going  to  die.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand.  Why  doesn't  he  just  pass  out?&quot;  &quot;He  will,  if  we  stand  here  long  enough,&quot;  said  Mary.  &quot;And  then  he  will  die.&quot;  Paul  dried  his  palms  on  the  sides  of  his  jeans.  &quot;There  must  be  a  tire  iron  in  our  car.  Or  a  lug  wrench.&quot;  Mary  ran  to  the  car  and  returned  with  the  tire  iron.  Paul  hefted  it  while  looking  at  the  smooth  glass  of  the  Audi's  rear  window.  What  would  asen-  sible  person  do?  A  swing  of  the  tire  iron  would  either  save  the  dog's  life  or  sim-  ply  break  the  window  of  an  expensive  car  with  a  grotesque  dog  inside.  Perhaps  the  dog  had  rabies  and  would  jump  out  and  bite  them.  Perhaps  bits  of  glass  would  fly  into  the  dog's  eyes,  adding  blindness  to  its  many  other  problems.  Paul  looked  at  Mary,  who  nodded  her  encouragement.  &quot;Vogue  la  galére,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Perhaps  the  dog  has  rabies,&quot;  said  Paul.  Just  then,ashort  man  with  an  apron  and  a  beard  ran  down  the  steps  into  the  parking  lot.  &quot;Wait,  mister,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  Happy.&quot;  &quot;Excuse  [REDACTED];  said  Paul.  &quot;They  call  me  Happy.  I  run  the  diner.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  see.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  know  where  you  can  find  these  people,&quot;  said  Happy.  &quot;They're  prob-  ably  down  the  street  at  L'Embarras  du  Choix.  That's  another  restaurant-they  serve  French  food-and  they're  not  sup-  posed  to  use  this  parking  lot,  but  a  lot  of  times  they  do  anyway.  No,  I  don't  like  it,  but  there  you  are.  Not  a  blessed  thing  I  can  do  about  it.  It  might  be  worth  a  try  before  you  smash  out  the  window.&quot;  &quot;Hurry,&quot;  said  Mary.  Paul  ran  down  the  street  of  the  New  Hampshire  town.  There  were  young  trees  planted  along  the  sidewalk,  but  they  did  not  seem  to  be  thriving.  He  arrived  at  the  French  restaurant  and  stood  panting  before  two  wooden  doors  with  insets  of  etched  glass.  He  did  not  want  to  go  in,  because  he  knew  what  he  would  find-  people  with  money.  He  had  tried,  once  upon  a  time,  to  get  money  himself,  and  instead  had  been  rel-  egated  to  a  tumbledown  inn  in  [REDACTED].  Shortly  before  this  trip,  he  had  experienced  a  strange  mo-  ment  of  self-awareness.  He  had  been  pouring  Liquid  Drano  into  a  sink,  scratching  his  stomach,  and  looking  absently  out  the  window  at  cows  standing  in  the  Ardennes  rain.  Suddenly,  he  had  the  unreal  feeling  that  he  had  been  doing  these  things  throughout  eternity-  pouring,  scratching,  looking.  And  now,  waiting  to  enter  the  restau-  rant,  he  felt  as  if  the  patrons,  when  they  looked  at  him,  would  not  see  a  hero  trying  to  save  the  life  of  a  dog  but  someone  frozen  ludi-  crously  in  time  with  a  can  of  Drano  in  his  hand.  He  pushed  open  the  doors.  The  tables  were  covered  with  brown  velvet,  and  set  with  thin-  stemmed  glasses  and  candles.  A  man  in  a  red  jacket  came  to  say  that  Paul  could  not  come  in  wearing  tennis  shoes.  Paul  pushed  past  him.  &quot;Excuse  me,  folks,  excuse  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There  is  an  Audi  parked  down  the  street  with  a  Princeton  decal  on  the  window  and  a  dog  inside.  I  am  looking  for  the  owner  of  this  car.&quot;  A  man  at  a  corner  table  stood  and  smiled.  He  had  short  silver  hair  and  an  oddly  cut  canvas  jacket  with  green  sugde  shoulders.  &quot;I  have  an  Audi.&quot;  &quot;You  have  to  come  see  the  dog,&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;There's  something  terribly  wrong  with  him.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  that's  what  he's  like,&quot;  said  the  man.  Paul  stared  at  him.  He  heard  people  whispering.  &quot;His  head  is  upside  down,&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;Rusty  has  a  problem  with  his  head.  .  .  .  What  of  it?&quot;  The  man  laughed  quietly,  and  so  did  the  woman  he  was  with.  She  was  beautiful,  wearing  a  simple  white  dress,  andseemed  to  regard  Paul  as  a  minor  distraction.  Now  Paul  heard  condescending  laughter  from  other  tables.  It  was  the  very  sort  of  class  antago-  nism  that  Paul  had  anticipated.  &quot;You  left  the  windows  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  didn't  even  crack  them.  You  can't  leave  a  dog  without  air.&quot;  He  felt  that  he  should  add  some  profanity,  so  he  said,  &quot;God  damn  it.&quot;  Then  he  continued.  &quot;It  may  be  air-  conditioned  inhere,  but  outside  it's  al-     TT  most  ninety  degrees.  Meanwhile  you  got  a  mob  of  people  about  to  knock  out  the  windows  of  your  car.  You'd  better  come  with  me.&quot;  Paul  walkedback  to  the  diner  with  the  man,  whose  name  was  Raymond.  It  was  hot  again  in  the  sun.  Raymond  lit  a  pipe  and  could  not  be  hurried.  It  was  possible  that  by  now  Mary  had  broken  the  window  and  discovered  that  the  dog  was  not,  after  all,  suffering  from  oxygen  deprivation.  Paul  hoped  that  the  win-  dow  was  intact.  He  hoped  someone  cau-  tious  had  takencharge  of  the  tire  iron.  &quot;I  don't  mind  explaining  the  situation  to  you  or  anyone  else,&quot;  said  Raymond.  &quot;But  I'm  really  quite  sure  the  dog  is  fine.  I  mean,  for  heaven's  sake,  we've  only  been  in  the  restaurant  for  half  an  hour.&quot;  &quot;In  a  case  like  this,  you've  got  to  leave  some  ventilation.&quot;  Raymond  nodded.  The  pipe  went  up  anddown.  &quot;No,  you're  right.  But  it  isn't  like  the  car  is  airtight.  I  drive  around  with  the  windows  closed.  I  don't  suffocate.&quot;  &quot;That's  different,&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;The  car  is  in  motion.&quot;  Raymond  shrugged.  &quot;Where  are  you  from?&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;Maryland.&quot;  &quot;What  is  wrong  with  the  dog?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  condition  of  the  inner  ear.  We  believe  there  was  an  infection  that  went  unchecked  when  he  was  a  pup.  You  see,  we  weren't  the  dog's  first  owners.  We  picked  him  at  the  Animal  Guild  in  Bethesda.  He  had  arrived  at  the  Guild  in  much  the  same  shape  as  you  see  him  in  today.  The  thing  is,  Rusty  enjoys travelling.  Although  I  admit  he  can  be  disturbing  to  watch.  It's  a  problem  for  us.  Many  people  want  to  know  what's  wrong,  what's  wrong  with  Rusty.&quot;  Paul  and  Raymond  arrived  at  the  diner,  and  as  they  crossed  the  parking  lot  Paul  for  some  reason  recalled  walk-  ing  up  the  courthouse  steps  with  his  lawyer  back  in  1987.  He  was  so  tired  of  federal  agents  and  their  bad  jokes  by-  then  that  he  had  welcomed  the  uncer-  tain  prospect  of  beginning  again,  with  a  new  name  and  no  friends.  The  future  was  open  for  him  and  Mary,  as  it  had  been  when  they  were  first  married.  This  was  the  thought  that  he  held  in  his  mind  while  testifying.  No  one  could  un-  derstand  why  he  ratted  on  the  other  people  in  the  illegal  enterprise  with  such  enthusiasm.  About  a  dozen  people  had  gathered  in  the  parking  lot  to  argue  the  merits  of  assaulting  the  Audi  in  order  to  save  the  dog.  Mary  seemed  to  be  the  still  center  of  the  commotion.  She  looked  calm  and  angelic  in  her  yellow  summer  dress.  Paul  took  her  hand  as  Raymond  made  his  -KarL  KircHwEy  way  to  the  car.  Raymond  opened  the  door,  put  a  leash  on  Rusty,  and  led  him  out  onto  the  pavement-all  while  con-  tinuing  to  smoke  his  pipe.  &quot;You  see?&quot;  said  Raymond.  &quot;He  is  quite  fine.  Aren't  you,  Rusty?&quot;  The  dog  was  friendly  enough,  and  his  deformities  and  falling  seemed  less  pitiful  when  they  were  known  not  to  be  life-threatening.  Still,  the  people  were  not  satisfied.  It  was  the  wrong  outcome.  They  almost  wanted  to  go  ahead  and  break  the  car  windows  anyway.  The  el-  derly  man  whom  everyone  called  Judge  led  the  way  back  into  the  diner.  He  turned  at  the  top  of  the  stairs.  &quot;Maybe  there's  no  harm  this  time,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  it  is  wrong  to  treat  a  dog  that  way.&quot;  Raymond  walked  Rusty  for  a  while  longer,  rolled  down  the  windows  of  the  car  a  bit,  and  shut  the  dog  inside  again.  When  Paul  and  Mary  drove  away  from  the  diner,  they  saw  Raymond  walk-  ing  back  to  L'Embarras  du  Choix.  He  waved.  They  waved  back.  They  headed  for  their  motel.  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  said  Paul.  &quot;Tired,&quot;  said  Mary.  &quot;Just  very  tired.&quot;  They  showered,  and  then  fell  asleep  on  a  hard,  flat  bed  in  a  room  with  var-  nished  wooden  walls  and  a  painting  of  a  woman  holding  a  bigbasket  of  cherries.  ETWEEN  legal  fees  and  fines,  the  trial  had  cost  Paul  and  Mary  their  sav-  ings,  their  car,  and  their  house  in  Somer-  ville.  The  acreage  in  New  Hampshire  was  all  they  had  been  able  to  keep.  The  title  had  been  transferred  to  Paul's  cousin  Lane,  who  had  committed  sui-  cide  some  years  before  by  jumping  from  a  bridge  in  [REDACTED].  If  this  ghost  transfer  were  ever  discovered-which  it  wouldn't  be,  thanks  to  the  skillful  way  in  which  Paul  had  set  it  up,  and  the  laissez-faire  attitude  of  the  town  clerk  involved-they  would  lose  the  forty  acres,  too.  So  they  had  the  land  but  couldn't  do  much  with  it,  except  to  show  up  once  in  a  blue  moon,  get  a  motel  room  nearby,  and  traipse  through  the  trees  and  tall  grass  for  a  few  days  before  flying  back  to  Europe.  After  waking  from  their  nap,  Paul  and  Mary  went  for  a  drive.  They  picked  up  beer  and  hummus  sandwiches  on  the  way  out  of  town.  A  quarter  mile  past  an  auction  house  where  they  had  never  seen  any  signs  of  life,  theyturned  onto  a  sand  road  that  wound  its  way  through  dark  evergreens  and  up  into  the  hills.  At  the  crest  of  the  road  Paul  parked  the  car,  and  they  got  out.  This  was  their  land.  They  followed  a  trail  into  the  trees,  which  eventually  gave  way  to  a  wide  golden  meadow  from  which  mountains  could  be  seen,  miles  away.  There  were  no  buildings  left  on  the  land,  just  tall  grass  and  wildflowers,  and  here  and  there  an  ironring  or  a  scrap  offarm  ma-  chinery.  At  the  edge  of  the  meadow  stood  the  decomposing  skeleton  of  a  truck.  Everything  that  was  notmetal  had  disappeared.  The  doors  were  bent  and  wide  open.  Paul  and  Mary  spread  a  blanket  on  the  grass  by  the  truck  and  sat  down.  No  matter  how  hot  it  became,  there  was  always  a  breeze  here.  Paul  opened  two  bottles  of  beer  and  passed  one  to  Mary.  They  drank  deeply  and  looked  at  the  scenery.  &quot;You  know  what  I'm  thinking?&quot;  said  Paul  after  a  time.  &quot;That  dog  could  have  gotout  of  this  truck  without  any  trouble  at  all.&quot;  Mary  closed  her  eyes  and  smiled  sadly.  &quot;But  what  would  we  have  done  all  afternoon?&quot;  she  said.  