 b"86  FICTION  UNDER  THE  ROSE  N  said-to  be  sure,  there  was  only  his  word  for  this;  but  who  would  invent  such  a  thing?-that,  in  their  teens,  his  brother  and  he  had  ravaged  their  sister  on  the  parsonage  kitchen  table.  Their  father  was  a  parson,  and  when  the  rape  took  place  the  household  was  at  Evensong.  Dan  described  a  fume  of  dust  motes  sliced  by  thin,  surgical  light,  a  gleam  of  pinkish  copper  pans  and,  under  his  nose,  the  pith  of  the  deal  table.  Outside  the  door,  his  sister's  dog  had  howled.  The  truth  was,  said  Dan,  that  she  herself  did  not  resist  much.  She'd  been  fifteen,  and  the  unapologetic  Dan  was  now  twenty.  It  had,  he  claimed,  been  a  liberation  for  all  three.  &quot;The  Bible's  full  of  it,&quot;  he'd  wind  up.  &quot;Incest!&quot;  The  story  was  for  married  women  only.  Dan  specialized  in  unhappy  wives.  Mal  mari\xc3\xa9es.  He  sang  a  song  about  them  in  French,  easing  open  the  tight,  alien  vowels  and  letting  the  slur  of  his  voice  widen  their  scope:  ma-ubl  mah-urrr-ee-  yeh.  It  was  a  Limerick  voice,  and  those  who  resisted  its  charm  said  that  the  further  Dan  Lydon  got  from  Limerick  the  broader  his  accent  grew.  The  resis-  tant  tended  to  be  men;  women  always  liked  Dan.  To  hear  him  lilt,  &quot;My  lo-  hove  is  lo-ike  a  r-red,  r-red  r-ro-rose&quot;  was,  as  respected  matrons  would  tell  you,  like  listening  to  grand  opera.  His  vibrancy  fired  them.  It  kindled  and  dazzled  like  those  beams  you  saw  in  paintings  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  his  breath  had  a  pulse  to  it,  even  when  all  he  was  ordering  was  the  same  again,  please,  and  a  packet  of  fags.  Words,  moving  in  his  mouth  like  oysters,  put  town  dwellers  in  mind  of  rural  forebears  and  of  the  damp,  reticent  lure  of  the  countryside.  The  parsonage  of  Dan's  youth  lay  in  the  grasslands  watered  by  the  River  [REDACTED],  flat  country  shadowed  by  those  cloud  formations  known  as  mack  erel  backs  and  mare's  tails-arrange-  ments  as  chameleon  as  himself.  He  was  a  bright-haired,  smiling  boy,  who  first  BY  JULIA  O'FAOLAIN  reached  [REDACTED]  in  1943,  a  time  when  the  Japanese  minister  rode  with  a  local  hunt  and  the  German  one  did  not  al-  ways  get  the  cold  shoulder.  Dan's  alle-  giance  was  to  the  noble  Soviets,  but  he  was  alive,  too,  to  sexual  raciness  blown  in  like  pollen  from  the  war  zones.  Change  fizzed;  neutrality  opened  fields  of  choice,  and  values  had  rarely  been  shiftier.  &quot;So  where  is  your  sister  now?&quot;  Mrs.  Connors  did  and  did  not  be-  lieve  his  story.  &quot;Tea?&quot;  she  offered.  Tea  was  his  hour.  Husbands  tended  to  be  at  work.  Mr.  Connors  was  a  civil  servant.  Dan  took  his  tea.  &quot;She  had  to  be  married  off,&quot;  he  admitted.  &quot;She  has  a  sweet  little  boy.&quot;  Mrs.  Connors  dared:  &quot;Yours?&quot;  &quot;Or  my  brother's?  I'd  like  there  to  be  one  I  Anew  was  mine.&quot;  His  eyes  held  hers.  Putting  down  the  cup,  he  turned  her  wrist  over,  slid  back  the  sleeve,  and  traced  the  artery  with  a  finger.  &quot;The  blue-veined  child!&quot;  he  mur-  mured.  &quot;Don't  you  think  children  con-  ceived  in  passion  are  special?  Fruits  of  willfulness!  Surely  they  become  poets?  Or  Napoleons?&quot;  Phyllis  Connors  was  sure  Napoleon's  family  had  been  legitimate.  On  her  hon-  eymoon,  before  the  war,  she  had  visited  Corsica.  &quot;Their  mother  was  addressed  as  Madame  M\xc3\xa9re.&quot;  &quot;Was  that  the  model  Connors  held  up  to  you?  'Madame  Me\xc3\xa9re'!&quot;  Dan  teased.  &quot;On  your  honeymoon!  What  a  clever  cuss!&quot;  The  teasing  could  seem  brotherly;  but  Dan's  brotherliness  was  alarming.  Indeed,  Phyllis's  offer  to  be  a  sister  to  him  had  touched  off  the  nonsense-  what  else  could  it  incest.  Nonsense  or  not,  it  unsettled  her.  He  was  predatory.  A  known  idler.  Wolfed  her  sandwiches  as  though  he  had  had  no  lunch-and  maybe  he  hadn't?  The  parson  had  washed  his  hands  of  him.  But  Dan  had  a  new  spiri-  tual  father  in  a  poet  who  had  stopped  the  university  from  kicking  him  out.  Dan's  enthusiasm  for  poetry-he  was,  he  said,  writing  it  full-time-so  capti-  vated  the  poet  that  he  had  persuaded  the  provost  to  waive  mundane  requirements  and  insure  that  the  boy's  scholarship  (paid  by  a  fund  for  sons  of  needy  par-  sons)  be  renewed.  Surely,  urged  Dan's  advocate,  the  alma  mater  of  Burke  and  Sam  Beckett  could  be  flexible  with  men  of  stellar  promise?  Talents  did  not  ma-  ture  at  the  rate  of  seed  potatoes,  and  Ireland's  best-known  export  was  frac-  tious  writers.  Let's  try  to  keep  this  one  at  home.  The  poet,  who  ran  a  magazine,  needed  someone  to  do  the  legwork  and  when  needbe  plug  gaps  with  pieces  en-  titled  &quot;Where  the  Red  Flag  Flies,&quot;  &quot;A  Future  for  Cottage  Industries?,&quot;  or  &quot;Folk  Memories  of  West  Clare.&quot;  Dan  could  knock  these  off  at  speed,  and  the  con-  nection  gave  him  prestige  with  the  fellow-undergraduates,  at  whose  verse  readings  he  starred.  It  was  at  one  of  these  that  Phyllis  Connors  had  first  heard  him  recite.  The  verse  had  not  been  his.  That,  he  ex-  plained,  must  stay  sub  rosa.  Did  she  know  that  Jack  Yeats,  the  painter,  kept  a  rose  on  his  easel  when  painting  his  mad,  marvellous  pictures  of  horse  deal-  ers,  fiddlers,  and  fairs?  Art  in  progress  was  safest  under  the  rose.  After  tea,  Dan  talked  of  procreation  and  of  how  men  in  tropical  lands  like  Ecuador  thought  sex  incomplete  with-  out  it.  That  was  the  earth's  wisdom  speaking  through  them.  R.C.s-look  at  their  Madonnas-had  the  same  in-  stincts.  Dan,  the  parson's  son,  defended  the  Pope,  whose  church  had  inherited  the  carnal  wit  of  the  ancients.  &quot;The  sower  went  out  to  sow  his  seed.  .  ..&quot;  Talk  likethis  unnerved  Phyllis,  who  was  childless  and  unsure  what  was  be-  ing  offered.  What  farmer,  asked  Dan,  would  scatter  with  an  empty  hand?  &quot;Your  women  are  your  fields,&quot;  he  quoted,  from  the  Koran.  &quot;Go  freely  into  your  fields!&quot;  Then  he  extolled  the  beauty  of  pregnant  women-bloomy  as  June  meadows-and  recited  a  poem  about  " b"changelings:  &quot;Come  away,  O  human  child.  ...&quot;  Phyllis,  thinking  him  a  child  himself,  might  have  surrendered  to  the  giddiest  request.  But  Dan  made  none.  Instead,  he  went  home  to  his  lodgings,  leaving  her  to  gorge  her  needs  on  the  last  of  the  sandwiches.  He  came  back,  though,  for  her  house  was  near  the  poet's,  and  after  drudging  with  his  galleys  would  drop  by  to  cup  hands,  sculpt  air,  praise  her  hips,  and  eat  healthy  amounts  of  whatever  was  for  tea.  Refreshed,  he  liked  to  intone  poems  about  forest  gods  and  fairy  folk.  &quot;And  if  any  gaze  on  our  rushing  band,&quot;  he  chanted,  &quot;We  come  between  him  and  the  deed  of  his  hand,  We  come  between  him  and  the  hope  of  his  heart.&quot;  Why  did  he  not  come  after  what  he  implied  was  the  hope  of  his  own  heart?  Wondering  made  her  think  of  him  more  than  she  might  otherwise  have  done,  and  so  did  see-  ing  him  in  the  Sing-  ing  Kettle,  eating  doughnuts  with  the  poet'swife.  Peering  through  trickles  ina  steamy  window,  she  thought  she  saw  the  word  &quot;love&quot;  on  his  lips.  Or  was  it  &quot;dove&quot;?  His  motto,  &quot;Let  the  doves  settle!&quot;  meant  &quot;Take  things  as  they  come.  Phyllis  decided  that  some  doves  needed  to  be  snared.  SOON  she  was  preg-  nant,  and  when  she  went  into  the  Hatch  Street  Nursing  Home  to  give  birth  Dan  brought  her  a  re-  production  of  Piero  della  Francesca's  Ma-  donna  del  Parto,  with  the  pale  slash  where  the  Virgin,  easing  her  gown  off  her  round  belly,  shows  under-  linen  more  intimate  than  skin.  His  finger  on  Phyllis's  stomach  sketched  an  identical  white  curve.  He  teased  the  nurses,  relished  the  fertility  all  about,  and  was  happy  as  a  mouse  in  cheese.  It  turned  out  that  the  poet's  wife  was  here,  too,  and  for  the  same  reason.  Her  room  was  on  another  floor,  so  Dan  yo-  yoed  up  and  down.  Sometimes  he  brought  gifts  that  had  to  be  divided:  fruit,  for  instance,  from  the  poet,  who  still  used  Dan  to  run  errands.  Or  books,  review  copies  from  the  magazine.  When  a  nurse  let  drop  that  the  poet's  wife  had  the  same  Piero  Madonna  on  her  side  table,  Phyllis  wrapped  hers  in  a  nappy  and  put  it  in  the  trash.  If  there  had  been  a  fireplace,  she  would  have  burned  it,  as  she  had  been  trained  to  do  with  un-  wanted  religious  objects.  Her  baby  received  her  husband's  first  name,  and  the  poet's  baby  the  poet's.  Dan-though  neither  couple  asked  him  to  be  godfather-presented  both  infants  with  christening  mugs.  One  had  been  his  and  the  other  his  brother's,  and  both  8T  were  made  of  antique  [REDACTED]  silver.  Early  Georgian.  The  official  godfathers,  fearing  odious  comparisons,  returned  their  purchases  to  Weirs  Jewellers  and  bought  cutlery.  Phyllis  wondered  if  Dan's  brother  knew  what  had  happened  to  his  mug.  Though  the  warwas  now  over,  he  was  still  overseas  with  the  Brit-  ish  Army.  &quot;He'll  not  be  back,&quot;  Dan  assured  her,  and  revealed  that  the  parsonage  had  been  a  dour  and  penurious  place.  Its  congregation  had  dwindled  since  the  R.C.  natives  took  over  the  country  in  '21,  and  attendance  some  Sundays  amounted  to  less  than  six.  Pride  had  throttled  Dan's  widowed  father,  who  did  menial  work  behind  thescenes  and  made  his  children  collect  fire-  wood,  polish  silver,  and  dine  on  boiled  offal  &quot;He  wouldn't  want  the  mug,&quot;  said  Dan.  &quot;Too  many  bad  memories!&quot;  The " b"88  brothers  had  left  as  soon  as  they  could,  and  getting  their  sister  pregnant  had  been  a  parting  gift.  &quot;If  we  hadn't,  she'd  still  be  Daddy's  slave.&quot;  SOME  years  went  by,  and  Dan  was  a  student  still,  of  a  type  known  to  4972656c616e64ers  as  &quot;chronic,&quot;  one  of  a  ragged  brigade  who,  recoiling  from  a  jobless  job  market,  harked  back  to  the  tribally  con-  doned  wandering  scholars  of  long  ago.  This  connection  was  often  all  that  raised  the  chronics  abovetramps  or  paupers,  and  the  lifeline  was  frail.  But  out  of  the  blue,  opportunity  came  Dan's  way.  The  poet,  who  had  to  go  into  the  hospital,  asked  him  to  bring  out  an  issue  of  the  magazine  bearing  on  its  masthead  the  words  &quot;Guest  Editor:  Daniel  Lydon.&quot;  Here  was  challenge!  Dan  toyed  excitedly  with  the  notion  of  publishing  hissecret  poetry,  which  he  yearned,  yet  feared,  to  display.  These  urges  warred  in  him  until,  having  read  and  reread  it,  he  saw  that  it  had  gone  dead,  leaking  virtue  like  batteries  kept  too  long  in  a  drawer.  Stewing,  he  fell  behind  with  the  magazine  and  had  to  ghostwrite  several  pieces  to  pad  the  thing  out.  As  part  of  this  process,  he  de-  cided  to  publish  photographs  of  A  Changing  Ireland.  Hydrofoils,  reapers-  and-binders,  ballpoint  pens,  and  other  such  innovations  were  shown  next  to  Neolithic  barrows.  The  Knights  of  Columbanus  in  full  fig  appeared  cheek  by  jowl  with  an  electric  band.  Portraits  of  &quot;the  last  Gaelic  storyteller&quot;  and  some  &quot;future  Irishmen&quot;  rounded  out  the  theme.  The  future  Irishmen,  three  small  boys  with  their  heads  arranged  like  the  leaves  of  a  shamrock,  were  recognizably  Dan's  nephew  and  the  recipients  of  his  christening  mugs-and  what  leaped  to  theeye  was  their  resemblance  to  him-  self.  The  caption  &quot;Changelings&quot;  drove  the  scandal  home.  The  poet,  convalescing  in  his  hospi-  tal  bed  after  an  operation  for  a  gentle-  man's  complaint,  told  his  wife,  in  an  insufficiently  discreet  hiss,  that  he  had  paid  Dan  to  do  his  legwork,  not  to  get  his  leg  over.  Reference  was  made  to  &quot;cuckoo's  eggs,&quot;  and  it  was  not  long  be-  fore  echoes  of  this  reached  the  ear  of  Mr.  Connors,  the  proverbial  quiet  man  whom  itis  dangerous  to  arouse.  Con-  nors,  who  had  done  a  bit  of  hacking  in  his  bachelor  days,  had  a  riding  crop.  Taking  this  to  the  student  lodgings    where  Dan  lived,  he  used  it  to  tap  smartly  on  the  door.  When  Dan  opened  this,  Connors  raised  the  crop.  Dan  yelled,  and  his  neighbor,  a  fellow-Communist,  who  was  on  the  varsity  boxing  team,  came  hurtling  to  the  rescue.  Assuming  the  row  to  be  political  and  Connors  a  mem-  ber  of  the  Blue  Shirts  only  reinforced  his  zeal.  Shoving  ensued;  Connors  fell  downstairs;  gawkers  gathered,  and  the  upshot  was  that  an  ambulance  was  called  and  the  opinion  bandied  that  thevictim  had  broken  his  back.  Some  genuine  Blue  Shirts  were  meanwhile  rustled  up,  men  whose  finest  hours  had  been  fight,  ing  for  Franco,  singing  hymns  to  Cristo  Re,  and  beating  the  sin  out  of  Reds;  they  were  spoiling  for  a  scrap,  and  if  it  had  not  been  for  Dan's  friend  spiriting  him  out  the  back  they  might  have  sent  him  to  join  Mr.  Connors-who,  as  it  would  turn  out,  had  not  been  injured,  after  all,  and  was  fit  as  a  fiddlein  a  couple  of  weeks.  Dan,  however,  had  by  then  prudently  boarded  the  ferry  to  Holyhead,  taking  with  him,  like  a  subsidiary  passport,  the  issue  of  the  magazine  bearing  his  name  as  &quot;guest  editor.&quot;  It  got  him  work  with  the  BBC,  which,  in  those  days  of  live  programming,  needed  men  with  a  gift  of  the  gab  and  was  friendly  to  Celts.  Louis  -Jomn  AsHBERY  MacNeice  and  Dylan  Thomas  were  role  models,  liquid  stimulants  in  high  favor,  and  Dan  was  recruited  straight  off  the  boat.  O  ran  reports  reaching  [REDACTED].  Pithy  myths,  these  acquired  an  envious  tinge  as  Dan's  success  was  magnified,  along  with  the  sums  he  was  earning  for  doing  what  he  had  formerly  done  for  free:  talking,  singing,  and  gargling  verse.  Others  were  soon  dreaming  of  jobs  in  a  [REDACTED]  whose  airwaves  vapored  with  gold.  Hadn't  4972656c616e64ers  a  known  talent  for  transubstantiating  eloquence  into  currency?  And  couldn't  every  one  of  us  talk  at  least  as  well  as  Dan  Lydon?  [REDACTED]  Connors  doubted  it.  Despite  himself,  he'd  caught  snatches  of  what  nobody  had  the  indecency  to  quote  quite  to  his  face:  a  saga  featuring  Dan  as  dispenser  of  sweet  anointings  to  women.  These,  Connors  understood,  had  needed  preparation.  Persuasion  had  been  required,  and  Dan's  boldness  at  it  had  grown  legendary,  as  an  athlete's  prowess  does  with  fans.  The  gossips  rel-  ished  Dan's  gall,  the  airy  way  he  could  woo  without  promise  or  commitment-  arguing,  say,  that  in  a  war's  wake  more  kids  were  needed  and  that  his  com-  panion's  quickened  pulse  was  nature  urging  her  to  increase  the  supply.  Na-  " b"UNDER  THE  ROSE  ture!  What  a  let  out!  Any  man  who  could  sell  a  line  like  that  in  Holy  Ireland  could  sell  heaters  in  hell.  &quot;He's  a  one-man  social  service!&quot;  A  wag  raisedhis  pint.  &quot;Offers  himself  up.  'Partake  ye  of  my  body.'  He'd  rather  be  consumed  than  consume!&quot;  The  wag  drained  his  glass.  His  pref-  erences  ran  the  other  way.  So  did  those  of  the  man  next  to  him,  whose  tongue  wrestled  pinkly  with  ham  frilling  from  a  sandwich.  All  around,  males  guzzled:  women,  in  this  prosperous  pub,  were  outnumbered  ten  to  one.  Connors,  sip-  ping  his  whiskey,  thought,  No  wonder  Lydon  made  out-we  left  him  an  open  field!  He  could  no  longer  regret  this,  for  af-  ter  ten  barren  years  of  marriage,  Phyllis  had  had  three  children  in  quick  succes-  sion.  It  was  as  if  something  in  her  had  been  unlocked.  He  supposed  there  were  jokes  about  this,  too,  but  he  didn't  care.  His  master  passion  had  turned  out  to  be  paternal,  and  [REDACTED]  Junior  was  the  apple  of  his  eye.  The  younger  two  were  girls  and,  as  Phyllis  spoiled  them,  he  had  to  make  things  up  to  the  boy.  For  a  while  after  the  scandal,  the  couple  had  felt  shy  with  each  other,  but  they  hadno  thoughts  of  divorce.  You  couldn't  in  Ireland,  and  it  wasn't  what  they  wanted.  They  were  fondof  each  other-and,  besides,  there  was  [REDACTED],  of  whom  it  was  said  behind  Mr.  Con-  nors'  shrugging  back  that  he  used  his  blood  father's  charm  to  wind  his  nomi-  nal  father  around  his  little  finger.  A  se-  ducer  ab  ovo.  Small-mindedness!  Envy!  Anyway,  time  heals,  and  when  the  boywas  picked,  surprisingly  early,  for  his  elementary-school  soccer  team,  and  later  won  ribbons  for  show  jumping,  Connors-a  sportsman-knew  him  for  his  spiritual  son.  Even  if  thekid  was  a  Lydon,  he  was  a  better  one  than  Dan-  whose  brother,  Connors  recalled,  had  been  decorated  for  gallantry  in  the  war.  Skimming  the  entry  on  Mendel  in  the  encyclopedia,  he  learned  that  hereditary  character  was  transmitted  chancily  and,  remembering  the  poltroonish  Dan  draped  over  armchairs  and  cowering  during  their  fight,  decided  that  [REDACTED]  Junior  had  nothing  of  his  natural  father's  but  hislooks.  Connors  still  took  an  interest,  though,  in  the  news  trickling  back  from  [REDACTED],  where  Dan's  free  lance  was  said  to  be  cutting  a  swath:  he  had  apparently  ac-  quired  a  new  patron,  a  literary  pun-  dit  who,  though  married,  was  partial  to  a  handsome  young  man.  And  now  Connors  noted  an  odd  thing:  admira-  tion  was  ousting  envy  and  Dan's  stature  in  the  saga  growing.  Needless  to  say,  his  news  was  slow  to  reach  Connors,  since  nobody  who  remembered  their  connection  would  wish  to  reopen  old  wounds.  It  came  in  scraps  and,  by  the  time  he  got  them,  these  were  as  spare  and  smooth  as  broken  glass  licked  by  recur-  ring  tides.  As  Connors  heard  it,  then:  Dan's  new  benefactor's  mar-  riage,  though  possibly  un-  consummated,  was  harmoni-  ous,  for  his  wife  had  money.  The  couple  made  fashionable  hosts,  and  Dan  was  soon  glowing  in  their  orbit-singing  ballads,  referring  tohissecret  ceuvre,  and  enlivening  their  soir\xc3\xa9es  with  tales  of  Irish  mores.  The  pundit's  wife,  the  story  went,  was  a  handsome,  angry  woman  who  had  hated  her  father,  but  having  agreed  to  inherit  his  money,  would  make  no  further  concession  to  men,  and  slept  only  with  those  she  could  pity  or  control.  As  her  husband  didn't  fit  the  bill,  she  had  lovers.  Dan  was  soon  ser-  vicing  both  her  and  the  husband  who,  being  jealous  and  smitten,  was  in  the  dark  about  this.  Here  the  story  fractures.  In  one  ver-  sion,  she  &quot;gets  preggers,&quot;  which  so  shat-  ters  the  husband  that  his  violence  leads  to  a  miscarriage  and  Dan's  subsequent  flight  to  [REDACTED].  But  there  was  an  implau-  sible  symmetry  to  this,  as  though  run-  ning  dye  from  the  [REDACTED]  episode  had  colored  it;  a  likelier  account  has  no  preg-  nancy  and  the  jealousy  provoked  by  someone's  indiscretion.  Deliberate?  Careless?  Either  way,  Connors  learned,  Dan  left  [REDACTED],  the  marriage  col-  lapsed,  and  the  husband,  previously  a  rather  nerveless  knight  of  the  pen-who  had,  in  his  own  words,  &quot;failed  to  grapple  with  his  subjectivity&quot;-finally  did  so  in  a  book  that  raised  him  several  rungs  on  the  literary  ladder.  This  was  before  the  Wolfenden  Report;  homosexuality  was  a  still  painful  subject,  and  his  grappling  was  judged  brave.  Dan,  as  midwife  to  his  lover's  best  writing,  could  be  said  to  have  done  him  a  good  turn.  Meanwhile,  [REDACTED]  Junior  was  in  his  teens,  and  his  mother-noting  that  if  89  you  cut  the  heart  from  his  name  you'd  be  left  with  &quot;Dan&quot;-feared  leaving  him  alone  with  his  sisters.  An  idle  fear:  girls  bored  him,  and  so  did  poetry,  to  her  re-  lief.  Not  that  Dan  himself  had  yet  pub-  lished  a  line,  but  the  appellation  Po\xc3\xa9re  irlandais  clung  to  him,  who  had  now-  wonder  of  wonders!-married  and  settled  in  [REDACTED].  The  word  was  that  an  old  Spanish  Civil  War  hero,  whose  memoirs  Dan  had  been  ghost-  writing  while  sleeping  with  his  daughter,  had,  on  catching  the  pairin  flagrante,  sat  on  Dan's  chest  and  said,  &quot;Marry  her!&quot;  A  bad  day's  work  for  the  girl,  tittered  those  4972656c616e64ers  ,.  who  still  remembered  him.  *  One  or  two  had  looked  him  upon  trips  abroad  and  reported  that  he  was  doing  something  nowadays  for  films.  Script-doctoring,  was  it?  And  his  wife  had  published  poems  before  their  marriage,  but  none  since.  Maybe  she  didn't  want  to  shame  him?  Closer  friends  said  the  marriage  was  a  good  one,  and  that  no  forcing  had  been  needed.  Why  should  it  have  been?  Marisol  was  bright,  young,  had  a  river  of  dark  hair,  and  gave  Dan  the  tribal  connection  he  had  always  coveted.  His  ravenous  charm  sprang  from  his  childhood  in  that  bleak  parsonage.  Marginal.  Clanless.  Left  behind  by  the  tide.  Catholics-  whose  clan  had  dispersed  his-did  not  appeal,  but  the  Left  did.  The  Spanish  Civil  War  had  been  Dan's  boyhood  war,  and  the  more  romantic  for  having  been  lost.  Dan  loved  a  negative.  What,  he  would  argue,  was  there  to  say  about  suc-  cess?  The  surprise  was  that  the  Anglo-  Saxon  ruling  classes  could  still  talk  and  didn't  just  beat  their  smug  chests  like  chimps.  If  it  weren't  for  their  homosexu-  als,  he  claimed,  they'd  have  no  art.  Art  was  for  those  whose  reality  needed  suborning.  It  burrowed  and  queried;  it  ...  et  cetera!  Dan  could  still  chatter  like  a  covey  of  starlings,  and  the  Limer-  ick  accent  went  down  a  treat  in  French,  being,  as  people  would  soon  start  to  say,  me\xc3\xa9diatique.  LONG  came  the  sixties.  The  [REDACTED]  Cult  blossomed  just  as  Dan-  in  his  forties-began  losing  his  hair.  Juvenescence  glowed  in  him,  though,  as  in  a  golden  autumn  tree.  His  freshness  was  a  triumph  of  essence  over  accident,  and  he  became  an  acknowledged  [REDACTED]  " b"90  Expert  when  he  made  a  film  about  the  graffiti  of  May  '68.  Graffiti,  being,  like  pub  talk,  insolent,  jubilant,  and  an  end  in  itself,  was  right  up  his  street,  and  he  was  soon  in  [REDACTED]  working  on  a  second  film.  It  came  to  nothing,  which  confirmed  the  purity  of  his  response  to  the  ephemeral,  and  he  continued  to  fly  between  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  dressed  in  light,  summery  suits  and  engaged  in  op-  timistic  projects,  some  of  which  did  throw  his  name  onto  a  screen  for  a  fleeting  shimmer.  One  evening  in  [REDACTED],  he  came  face  to  face  with  Connors  and  Phyllis  in  a  brasserie.  They  were  at  different  tables,  and  could  have  ignored  each  other.  As  their  last  encounter  had  led  to  Connors  departure  from  the  scene  in  an  am-  bulance  and  Dan's  from  Ireland,  this  might  have  seemed  wise.  Sportingly,  however,  Dan  came  over.  Shiny  and  aglow,  his  forehead-higher  than  it  used  to  be-damp  with  sweat.  It  was  a  hot  night.  Hand  outstretched.  A  little  self-  deprecating.  He  had  heard  their  news,  as  they  had  his,  and  congratulated  Connors  on  a  recent  promotion.  Fam-  ily  all  well?  Grand!  Great!  He  was  with  his.  Nodding  at  a  tableful  of  Spaniards.  Laughing  at  their  noise.  Then,  ruefully,  as  two  of  his  wrestling  children  knocked  over  a  sauceboat,  he  said  he'd  better  go  and  cope.  Soon  the  waiter  brought  two  glasses  of  very  old  cognac  with  Dan's  compli-  ments.  They  accepted,  toasted  him,  and,  watching  his  gypsy  table,  remembered  hearing  that  &quot;the  poor  bastard&quot;  had  saddled  himself  with  a  family  of  idlers  whom  he  had  to  work  overtime  to  sup-  port.  Dan's  father-in-law,  it  seemed,  had  emphysema.  Marisol's  brother  yearned  to  be  a  pop  star,  and  she  herself  kept  producing  children.  How  many  had  they?  Phyllis  counted  three,  who  were  dark  like  their  motherand  did  not  look  at  all  like  [REDACTED]  Junior.  As  she  and  Connors  left,  they  thanked  Dan  for  the  cognac.  Afterward,  they  discussed  the  en-  counter  half  sharply,  half  shyly.  Looking  out  for  each  other's  dignity.  Not  men-  tioning  [REDACTED]  Junior,  whom  Phyllis,  her  husband  guessed,  thought  of  as  hav-  ing  two  fathers.  Blame  could  thus  be  moved  about  or  dissolved  in  the  whirli-  gig  ofher  brain.  And  she  could  play  peekaboo,  too,  with  romance.  He  sus-  pected  this  because-the  evening  had  brought  it  home  to  him-he,  too,  had  an  imaginative  connection  with  Dan  andhad  not  liked  what  he  saw  in  the  brasserie.  It  had  depressed  him.  Spilled  gravy  and  domesticity  cut  Dan  down  to  size,  and  a  life-size  Dan  was  a  reproach,  while  the  saga  figure  hadn't  been  at  all.  The  connection  to  hat  Dan  had,  some-  how,  aureoled  Connors'  life  and  added  a  dimension  to  his  fantasies.  For  a  while,  it  had  even  made  Phyllis  more  attractive  to  him.  An  adulterous  wife  was  excit-  ing-and  he  had  often  wondered  whether  it  could  have  been  that  extra  zest  that  had  led  to  his  begetting  the  two  girls.  Water  under  the  bridge,  to  be  sure!  The  Dan  Saga  had  not  stimulated  his  sex  life  for  years.  What  it  did  do  was  make  him  feel  more  benign  than  might  have  been  expected  of  the  sober  civil  ser-  vant  he  was.Broader,  and  even  passion-  ate.  It  was  as  if  he  himself  had  had  a  part  in  Dan's  adventurings.  That,  of  course,  made  no  sense,  or  rather,  the  sense  it  made  was  private  and-why  not?-po-  etic.  Dan,  the  unproductive  poet,  had,  like  Oscar  Wilde,  put  his  genius  into  his  life:  a  fevering  contagion.  Or  so  Con-  nors  must  have  been  feeling,  unknown  tohimself.  How  else  to  explain  the  gloom  provoked  by  the  sighting  in  the  brasserie?  Phyllis  didn't  seem  to  feel  it.  But  then,  women  saw  what  they  wanted  to  see.  Connors  guessed  that  for  her  Dan  Lydon  was  still  a  figure  of  romance.  T  was  around  this  time  that  [REDACTED]  Junior  began  to  disappoint  his  par-  ents.  A  gifted  athlete  who  handled  his  academic  work  with  ease,  he  had  come  through  university  with  flying  colors  and  Connors,  convinced  that  the  boy  could  star  in  any  firmament,  had  looked  forward  to  seeing  him  join  the  diplo-  matic  corps  or  go  in  for  politics  or  jour-  nalism.  Something  with  scope.  Instead,  what  should  their  affable,  graceful  [REDACTED]  do  on  graduating  but  take  a  humdrum  job  in  a  bank  andannounce  that  he  was  getting  married!  Yes.  Now.  There  was  no  talking  him  out  of  it,  and  it  was  not  a  shotgun  wedding,  either.     THE  NEW  YORKER,  FEBRUARY  28,  1994  Indeed,  [REDACTED]  Junior  was  rather  stuffy  when  asked  about  this.  And  when  you  met  the  girl  you  saw  that  it  was  unlikely.  She  was  limp-haired,  steady,  and-well,  dull.  Here  was  their  cuckoo,  thought  Connors,  turning  out  too  tame  rather  than  too  wild.  If  there  was  a  Lydon  gene  at  work,  the  resemblance  was  more  to  the  family  man  he  and  Phyllis  had  glimpsed  in  [REDACTED]  than  to  the  satyr  whose  heredity  they  had  feared.  Had  they  worked  too  hard  at  stamping  out  the  demon  spark?  That,  they  learned,  was  still  riskily  smoldering  in  the  vicinity  of  Lydon  himself.  Connors  heard  the  latest  bulle-  tin  by  a  fluke,  for  he  had  grown  reclu-  sive  since  [REDACTED]'s  wedding  and  more  so  after  the  christening,  which  came  an  im-  peccable  ten  months  later.  He  was,  to  tell  the  truth,  a  touch  down  in  the  mouth.  Brooding.  Had  Phyllis,  he  won-  dered,  been  cold  with  the  boy  when  hewas  small?  Could  guilt  have  made  her  be?  And  might  there  be  something,  after  all,  to  Freudian  guff?  Till  now  Connors  had  dismissed  it,  but  there  was  [REDACTED],  married  to  a  surrogate  Mum.  Born  to  be  a  Mum:  she  was  pregnant  again,  andhad  tied  her  limp  hair  in  a  bun.  Cartoonish,  in  orthopedic  shoes,  she  wore  a  frilly  apron  and  loved  to  make  pastry.  [REDACTED]  was  putting  on  weight!  Ah,  well.  The  latest  about  Lydon  was  that,  hungry  for  money,  he  had  agreed  to  be  a  beard.  A  what?  &quot;You  may  well  ask,&quot;  said  Connors'  source,  a  man  called  Breen,  who  swore  him  to  secrecy.  Breen  was  on  leave  from  the  Irish  Embassy  in  4974616c79,  which,  said  he,  was  in  a  turmoil  over  the  thing.  &quot;But  what  is  a...?&quot;  Breen  looked  over  his  shoulder;  they'd  met  in  the  St.  Stephen's  Green  Club.  &quot;I  can't  tell  you  here.&quot;  So  Connors  brought  him  home  and  settled  him  down  with  a  whiskey,  to  tell  his  story  before  Phyllis  came  in.  She  was  babysitting  [REDACTED]  III,  known  as  Dicky-  bird,  who  was  at  the  crawling  stage  and  tiring.  His  mother  needed  a  rest.  Breen's  hot  spurts  of  shock  revived  Connors'  spirits.  The  Dan  Saga  thrilled  him  in  an  odd,  outraged  way,  much  as  the  whiskey  was  warming  and  biting  at  his  mouth.  Recklessness,  hethought  welcomingly,  a  touchof  folly  to  temper  the  norms  and  rules.  " b" Lydon,  said  Breen,  had  been  acting  as  cover  for  one  of  the  candidates  in  the  upcoming  United  [REDACTED]  election,  a  mar-  ried  man  who  was  having  it  off  with  an  actress.  Needing  to  seem  above  re-  proach-&quot;You  know  American  vot-  ers!&quot;-the  candidate  had  engaged  Dan  to  pretend  to  be  the  woman's  lover.  &quot;He  was  what's  called  a  beard-trav-  elled  with  her,  took  her  to  parties,  et  cetera,  then  left  the  scene  when  the  can-  didate  had  a  free  moment.&quot;  The  beards  function  was  to  draw  suspicion.  For  the  real  lover  to  seem  innocent,  the  beard  must  suggest  the  rut.  And  Dan  did.  Though  he  was  now  fifty,  an  aura  of  youth  and  potency  clung  to  him.  &quot;It's  all  in  the  mind!&quot;  said  Breen,  shrugging.  Outside  the  window,  someone  had  turned  on  a  revolving  lawn  sprinkler  and  the  family  Labrador,  a  puppy  called  Muff,  was  leaping  at  its  spray.  That  meant  that  Phyllis  and  the  child  were  back  from  their  walk.  Breen  said  that  what  Lydon's  wife  thought  of  his  job  nobody  knew.  The  money  must  have  been  good.  Or  maybe  she  hadn't  known-until  she  was  kid-  napped.  Kidnapped?  Yes.  Hadn't  he  said?  By  mistake.  At  the  4974616c79  Film  Festival.  By  Sardinian  kidnappers  who  got  wind  of  the  story  but  took  the  wrong  woman.  &quot;The  candidate's  rich,  and  they'd  hoped  for  a  big  ransom.&quot;  This  had  happened  just  three  weeks  ago.  Connors  was  stunned.  A  changeling,  he  thought,  and  felt  a  breath  of  shame.  Play  had  turned  dangerous,  and  he  had  been  relishing  Lydon's  tomfoolery.  &quot;The  Yanks  came  to  us,&quot;  Breen  told  him,  &quot;asking  us  to  handle  the  thing  with  discretion-after  they'd  got  the  actress  back  to  the  [REDACTED]  You  could  say  we're  their  beard!&quot;  He  grew  grave,  for  there  was  a  danger  that  the  kidnappers  could  panic.  &quot;Sardinians  are  primeval  and  in-  bred,  you  know!  Islanders!  What?  No,  no,  not  like  us.  More  basic!  Crude!  Their  life  way  was  easy  to  commercial-  ize  because  it  was  so  crude.  With  them,  vengeance  required  blood  as  real  as  you'd  put  in  blood  sausage.  Quantifiable!  Ma-  terial!  We,  by  contrast,  are  casuists  and  symbol  jugglers.  Closers  of  eyes  ..  .&quot;  A  flick  of  embarrassment  in  Breen's  own  eye  signalled  a  sudden  recognition  that  this  could  seem  to  refer  to  the  story-had  he  only  now  remembered  it?-of  Connors  and  Dan:  a  case  of  eyes  closed  to  lost  honor.  With  professional  blandness,  he  tried  to  cover  his  gaffe  with  an  account  of  the  Embassy's  di-  lemma:  on  the  one  hand,  the  papers  must  not  learn  of  the  thing.  On  the  other,  the  kidnappers  must  be  made  to  see  that  there  was  no  money  to  be  had.  Breen  castigated  Lydon,  whose  sins  were  catching  up  with  him.  Hispoor  wife,  though  .  ..  Connors  tried  to  remember  her  face  in  the  [REDACTED]  brasserie,  but  could  not.  &quot;That  louser  Lydon!&quot;  Breen,  intend-  ing  perhaps  to  express  solidarity  with  Connors,  threw  out  words  like  &quot;parasite&quot;  and  &quot;sociopath.&quot;  When  you  thought  about  it,  a  man  like  that  was  worse  than  the  kidnappers.  &quot;He  breaks  down  the  barriers  between  us  and  them.  He  lets  in  anarchy.  He  sells  the  pass.&quot;  Connors  tried  to  demur,  but  Breen,  warming  to  his  theme,  blamed  society's  tolerance,  for  which  it-&quot;we&quot;-must  now  pay.  &quot;Bastards  like  that  trade  on  it.&quot;  Someone,  he  implied,  should  have  dealt  with  Lydon  long  ago.  Connors  ignored  the  reproach.  Off  on  a  different  tack,  his  mind  was  cutting  through  a  tangle  of  shy,  willed  confu-  sions.  He  recognized  that  what  he  felt  for  Dan  was  love  or  something  closer.  Far  from  being  his  enemy,  Dan  was  a  part  of  himself.  Luminous  alter  ego?  Partner  in  father-  and  grandfatherhood?  Closing  his  ears  to  his  companion's  ser-  mon,  he  looked  out  to  where  Phyllis  and  Dickybird  had  caught  up  with  the  golden  Lab,  on  whose  back  the  child  kept  trying  to  climb.  Shaken  off,  he  tried  again:  a  rubbery  bouncing  back  like  foam.  The  wild  Lydon  heri-  tage  had  skipped  a  generation  and  here  it  was  again.  Excited  by  the  whirling  spray,  the  puppy  scampered  through  its  prism  while  the  infant  held  on  to  its  tail.  The  child's  hair  was  as  blond  as  the  dog's,  and  in  the  rainbow  embrace  the  two  gleamed  like  fountain  statuary.  They  were  Arcadian,  anarchic,  playful-and  propelled  by  pooled  energy.  &quot;It's  a  terrible  thing  to  happen,&quot;  Con-  nors  conceded.  &quot;But  I  wouldn't  blame  Lydon.  Blame  the  American  candidate  or  the  Italian  state.  Hypocrisy.  Puritan-  ism.  Pretense.  Lydon's  innocent  of  all  that.  Blaming  him  is  like,  I  don't  know,  blaming  that  dog  out  there.&quot;  And  he  waved  his  glass  of  whiskey  at  the  golden  scene  outside. "