 b"FICTION  FAMILY  BY  THOMAS  MCGUANE  HE  wind  funnelled  down  the  river  valley  between  the  two  ranges  of  mountains  and,  where  the  interstate  highway  hit  its  first  long  straightaway  in  thirty  miles,  picked  up  speed.  Clay's  car  lot  was  right  on  the  frontage  road,  where  land  was  cheap  and  where  the  wind  made  its  uninterrupted  rush  every  season  of  the  year.  When  winter  had  not  quite  arrived,  when  his  blood  hadn't  thickened  and  the  cattle  trucks  threw  up  whirlwinds  of  cotton-  wood  leaves,  the  times  between  custom-  ers  seemed  endless.  It  was  easier  in  the  snowy  dead  of  winter.  Now,  face  close  to  the  window,  and  leaning  one  hand  against  the  recycled  acoustic  tile  that  lined  the  walls,  he  stared  down  the  roofs  and  hoods  of  used  vehicles  in  desperate  search  of  a  human  form.  Before  lunch,  a  rancher  came  in  to  complain  about  a  five-year-old  three-  quarter-ton  Dodge  that  Clay  had  sold  him.  The  rancher  had  called  it  a  six-  thousand-dollar  lemon,  and  the  pres-  ence  of  a  pair  of  fencing  pliers  in  his  hand  seemed  to  offer  the  prospect  of  mayhem.  Clay  tried  to  lighten  the  tone  by  saying,  &quot;The  space  shuttle  was  six  bil-  lion  and  is  a  lemon.&quot;  But  it  didn't  help.  He  ended  getting  sucked  into  a  retroac-  tive  guarantee  just  to  keep  the  guy  and  his  friends'  business.  With  my  luck,  Clay  thought,  we'll  end  up  throwing  a  short  block  into  it,  or  a  rear  end.  Clay's  father  was  dying  of  cancer,  and  once  this  rancher,  a  friend  of  his  father's,  had  his  repair  deal  in  hand,  he  asked,  &quot;How's  the  old  man?&quot;  in  an  excessively  warm  tone  that  said,  &quot;I'm  thinking  about  him,  but  I'm  thinking  about  you,  too,  and  it's  a  lot  of  pain  for  everybody.&quot;  &quot;He's  nearly  dead,&quot;  said  Clay,  and  went  back  into  the  shack,  with  its  tele-  phone,  cash  drawer,  and  long  view  of  the  vehicles.  At  the  far  end  of  the  front-  age  road,  the  overcast  sky  had  begun  to  lower.  The  frozen-yogurt  stand  was  closed  for  the  year,  and  the  metal  sign  on  wheels  in  front  of  the  tire-repair  shop  was  flipping  back  and  forth.  The  Dodge  truck  pulled  back  onto  the  road  and  went  by  the  shack.  The  rancher  gave  Clay  a  wave,  which  he  declined  to  return.  T  was  really  no  longer  a  hospital.  It  was  just  a  place  where  temporary  emergency  care  could  be  provided  until  an  ambulance  or  helicopter  could  take  the  patient  to  Billings.  There  were  three  nurses,  and  a  doctor  on  call.  Clay  got  his  father,  Bill,  in  there  because  Bill  had  helped  found  this  little  hospital,  when  it  was  a  real  hospital,  because  it  was  close  to  home  and  had  views  that  meant  something  to  him,  and  because  there  was  not  a  lot  that  could  be  done  for  Bill  anymore.  About  all  that  you  could  do  was  listen  to  his  stories;  and  that  seemed  to  be  enough.  But  he  could  rally  a  pee-  vish  look  if  you  didn't  listen  closely  or  interrupted  him.  That  look  transformed  Bill's  weather-beaten  face  and  turned  him  into  the  old  manwho  had  called  the  shots  for  so  long  that,  in  the  face  of  his  final  illness,  it  was  hard  for  his  chil-  dren  to  keep  their  thoughts  from  the  comparative  ease  that  lay  ahead  and  not  be  torn  by  guilt.  So  Clay  sat  and  listened  for  as  long  as  he  could;  and  on  the  weekends  his  sister,  Karen,  came  over  from  Powder-  ville  and  sometimes  brought  one  of  the  kids.  There  were  three  boys,  but  two  were  too  wild  to  take  that  far  in  a  vehicle.  Clay  had  the  rather  ungrateful  thought  that  it  was  the  painkillers  that  they  were  giving  his  old  man  that  brought  back  this  surge  of  memories.  Even  if  it  was,  it  made  a  kind  of  sense,  his  trying  to  shape  the  days  of  his  life,  as  if  they  could  beput  in  an  ammuni-  tion  tin  when  he  was  gone.  Clay  smiled  to  himself  as  he  looked  out  the  window.  It  was  only  this  last  week,  waiting  in  this  room  and  gazing  at  the  bright  prairie  that  began  at  the  parking  lot  and  went  out  of  sight,  that  he  learned  that  the  hospital  sat  right  in  the  middle  of  an  old  Matador  pasture  where  Texans  had  brought  thousands  of  longhorns  to  graze  among  cottonwoods  that  had  Indians  buried  in  their  high  branches.  Clay's  great-grandfather  was  one  of  those  Texans.  Karen  had  a  pic-  ture  of  him.  It  had  begun  to  rain,  and  with  the  rain  came  the  smell  of  open  country.  His  sister  was  supposed  to  have  been  here  al-  ready,  and  he  really  didn't  want  to  stay  any  longer.  He  wanted  to  go  back  to  work.  He  still  thought  he  could  sell  a  car  today.  &quot;I  don't  know  what's  keeping  Karen,&quot;  he  saidto  his  father.  &quot;She'll  be  here.  Probably  had  to  wait  for  Lewis  to  get  out  of  school.&quot;  Clay  thought  about  the  self-satisfac-  tion  dying  people  seemed  to  have.  Be-  cause  they  were  soon  going  to  be  gone  forever,  they  thought  they  owned  the  world.  Bill  couldn't  see  who  was  coming  through  the  door.  So  when  Karen  ap-  peared  there,  she  was  able  to  quietly  summon  Clay.  She  was  a  small  brunette,  very  emphatic  about  everything,  and  she  looked  like  someone  telling  you  to  pull  over  to  the  curb.  Clay  stared  at  Bill,  whose  eyes  were  closed,  and  eased  out  into  the  corridor.  &quot;I've  got  to  take  Lewis  in  to  get  a  shot.  He  got  bit  by  a  skunk  and,  poor  little  thing,  he's  going  to  have  to  have  that  series.  So  you'll  need  to  hold  the  fort.&quot;  &quot;My  God,  Karen,  I  can't  stay  any-  more.  I've  been  here  all  morning.&quot;  &quot;You  have  to,&quot;  she  said  and  then  just  went  out.  Clay  felt  sunk.  He  wasn't  bored  by  all  this.  It  was  worse,  a  kind  of  repulsion.  He  would  have  been  glad  to  take  Lewis  to  see  the  doctor.  Anyway,  Bill  was  awake.  It  was  just  a  matter  of  listening,  and  waiting.  Bill  would  stare  wherever  his  head  was  pointed,  blank.  No,  not  blank,  looking  for  something.  Then-aha!-  he'd  found  it.  His  eyes  caught  the  light.  T  was  the  last  Mother's  Day  before  World  War  II.  You  and  Karen  was  just  little  bitty.  Your  ma  and  me  drove  into  the  ranch  yard,  and  Leo,  the  illegal  " b"who  worked  for  me  then,  said  some  old  fellow  had  arrived  about  sundown  on  a  wild  horse,  w\xc2\xbb  caballo  bravo,  and  had  rolled  out  his  bedroll  under  the  loading  chute,  put  his  head  on  his  saddle,  and  gone  to  sleep.  He  was  down  there  now.  I  had  a  feeling  that  it  was  old  Robert  Wood,  and  it  was.  Of  course,  I  didn't  find  him  asleep,  just  caught  his  eye  and  told  him  I  would  see  him  in  the  A.M.  I  pretty  much  knew  what  he  was  after.  He  had  a  band  of  mares  upon  the  mesa  be-  hind  our  ranch,  bronc  mares,  and  they  were  running  out  with  wild  horses  there.  Folks  from  town  had  come  out  from  time  to  time  to  chase  them  around,  and  they  was  absolutely  wild.  I  had  hoped  to  gather  them  for  Robert  when  we  had  a  full  complement  of  help,  because  it  wasn't  going  to  be  easy  at  all.  Several  months  before  this,  Robert  went  out  into  the  sagebrush  to  catch  his  red  roan  stud,  who  was  running  with  some  draft  horses  by  the  springs.  He  had  a  little  panof  oats  and  a  lariat  and  just  got  his  stud  caught  when  one  of  the  draft  horses  bit  his  stud  and  he  got  hung  up  in  the  rope  and  dragged.  Your  uncle  O.  C.  Drury  was  plowing  up  wheat  stubble  about  two  miles  away  and  saw  the  dust  cloud  from  where  Robert  was  being  dragged.  At  his  age,  Robert  really  never  should  have  lived  but  he  did.  He  was  in  the  hospital  all  winter.  I  ran  into  him  after  he'd  healed  some,  and  he  saidto  me  in  his  kind  of  whiny  voice,  &quot;Bill,I  been  in  town  half  a  year.  Can  you  carry  me  home?&quot;  So  I  drove  him  out  to  his  place  and  he  worried  about  his  horses  the  whole  time,  had  an  unusually  strong  feeling  about  them.  He  was  anopen-range  cowboy,  and  that's  how  they  was  about  horses.  By  the  time  we  got  to  his  place,  he  was  worn  out  all  over  again  and  needed  to  go  to  bed.  I  went  with  him  into  his  little  shack  of  acabin  and  he  stripped  down  to  his  long  underwear.  When  he  pulled  back  the  covers  of  his  bed,  there  was  agreat  big  nest  of  mice  there,  just  full  of  little  pink  babies.  He  carefully  moved  them  to  one  side  of  the  bed  and  got  in  beside  them,  pulled  up  the  cov-  ers,  and  nodded  his  thanks  for  the  lift.  Gradually,  I  heard  rumors  that  he  was  back  at  work,  pulling  up  his  poor  fence  and  halfway  cow-proofing  it.  He  brought  back  his  little  bunch  of  black  baldies  and  his  bulls.  He  was  even  seen  crawling  around  the  cockleburs,  packing  a  sprayer  with  a  full  tank  and  a  rag  tied  across  his  old  face.  He  had  always  lived  and  worked  alone  and  was  still  on  the  place  where  he  was  born.  Robert  was  an  old-time  spade-bit  horseman.  His  horses  were  quick  and  broncy,  and  the  only  safe  place  around  them  was  on  their  backs.  They  were  quiet  in  a  herd  of  cattle  and  had  the  lightest  noses  in  the  state.  O.  C.  Drury  hauled  cattle  as  a  sideline,  andhe  hated  to  haul  Robert's  calves.  Invariably,  he'd  arrive  in  the  ranch  yard  in  mid-October  and  Robert  would  complain,  &quot;O.  C.,  I'm  so  shorthanded  just  now.  Would  you  catch  up  that  old  bay  and  help  me  bring  these  cattle  in?  We'll  sort  them  off  right  here  and  now.&quot;  O.  C.  would  feel  he  had  to  do  it,  but  he  would  crawl  upon  an  old  bay  or  old  sorrelly  who  would  know  immediately  it  wasn't  Robert  Wood,  andone  false  move  and  the  bronc  ride  was  on.  So  I  let  Robert  sleep  through  the  night,  andby  the  time  I  woke,  just  be-  fore  sunup,  I  could  smell  his  fire  and  coffee.  Then  in  a  bit  I  could  hear  Leo's  voice,  and  I  knew  the  two  of  them  were  drinking  coffee.  I  decided  I'd  make  a  good  breakfast  for  the  three  of  us.  I  threw  on  the  lights  and  got  dressed,  went  into  the  kitchen,  and  started  cook-  ing.  I  knew  I  didn't  want  to  put  on  a  breakfast  for  everyone.  I  was  buying  time,  and  I  still  hoped  I  could  talk  Rob-  ert  out  of  his  dangerous  plan  to  bring  these  broncs  down  off  the  mesa  with  such  a  small  crew.  Leo,  now,  was  a  typical  illegal,  hard-  working  and  terrific  bashful.  To  get  him  to  come  into  the  house  tookan  act  of  Congress.  That'sthe  way  they  are.  The  minute  they're  comfortable  in  the  house,  you  can  expect  their  family  to  begin  ar-  riving  from  Old  [REDACTED]  in  a  parade  of  jalopies.  From  then  on  itis  your  main  occupation  to  live  in  your  new  little  Mexican  village.  That's  why  they  are  re-  luctant  at  first  to  come  into  your  house.  They  know  what  you  are  getting  your-  self  into,  even  if  you  don't.  As  they  see  it,  they  are  protecting  you  against  your  own  generosity  and  what  it  may  lead  to.  It  may  lead  to  your  becoming  a  Mexi-  can  slave.  That  day,  though,  Leo  came  in  with  Robert,  who  had  to  be  helped  up  the  steps.  I  was  relievedto  see  that  Robert's  physical  condition  might  limit  our  over-  reaching  with  these  wild  horses.  And  I  67  had  made  a  big  enough  breakfast  to  in-  stigate  some  morning  smoking  and  reminiscing,  which  Robert  could  do  about  as  well  as  anybody.  I  served  the  two  of  them  and  asked  Leo  in  Spanish  if  he  thought  the  old  man  was  going  to  be  ableto  get  on  his  horse.  Instead,  Robert  answered.  &quot;Don't  you  worry  none  about  e/  wigjo.  I  teethed  on  a  saddle  horn.&quot;  I  just  laughed-a  little  embarrassed  like,  naturally-and  we  went  ahead  and  ate.  Leo  was  a  small  Indian-looking  fel-  low  from  Sonora,  andhe  listened  to  his  nortefio  music  whenever  he  was  alone.  I  know  he  was  homesick.  His  hair  fell  in  bangs  over  an  Indian  face.  His  hands  were  absolutely  square  from  hardwork.  I  tried  to  joke  with  him,  but  he  didn't  really  have  any  sense  of  humor  I  could  understand.  He  was  always  serious.  He  couldn't  read  or  write  but  he  had  a  per-  fect  memory.  Once,  I  lost  apocketknife,  which  I  didn't  discover  until  Leo  and  I  had  walked  two  hours  back  to  my  truck,  when  I  discovered  it  gone.  Leo  ran  back  in  the  dark  and  picked  it  up  without  re-  ally  ever  having  to  search  for  it.  When  he  felt  I  was  pushing  him  too  hard,  he  said,  &quot;Weddamini,&quot;  which  I  finally  figured  out  was  his  version  of  &quot;wait  a  minute,&quot;  and  I  only  sorted  that  out  when  he  started  saying  &quot;Goddammi&quot;  when  he  was  mad.  &quot;Mighty  nice  of  you  to  fixthis,&quot;  Rob-  ert  said,  holding  part  of  his  breakfast  out  at  me  on  a  fork,.  He  had  an  old-  fashioned,  long-nosed,  English-looking  face,  and  you  could  see  a  little  blue  vein  in  the  thinskin  of  his  forehead.  Robert  was  a  horseman,  an  old  puncher,  and  he  had  outlived  his  time,  which  had  be-  come  a  time  of  fences  and  farming.  It  was  kind  of  amazing  he  had  held  on  to  his  ways  for  so  long.  He  couldn't  have  done  such  a  thing  if  he  hadn't  been  so  old  and  if  he  hadn't  been  a  bachelor.  He  saw  alfalfa  the  way  modern  people  see  the  drug  plague.  To  him,  it  was  a  phony,  green,  water-greedy  murderer  of  the  Old  West.  The  otherthing  that  set  Robert  apart-amazing  when  you  think  of  how  many  people  around  here  were  kind  of  interested  in  him  and  his  life-  was  that  he  didn't  seem  to  have  any  in-  terest  in  himself.  You  couldn't  hardly  get  anything  out  of  him.  He  only  was  inter-  ested  in  what  was  going  on  right  now  that  minute.  I  suppose  he  was  seventy-five.  The  " b"68  bighat  he  worewas  an  old  Stetson,  just  the  way  it  came  out  of  the  box-no  crease,  no  nothing.  He  wore  it  year  round.  He  wouldn't  wear  a  straw  hat  in  the  summer.  He  said  a  straw  hat  was  a  farmer's  hat.  He  said  that  is  what  you  wore  when  you  went  out  to  view  the  alfalfa.  A  meal,  including  that  breakfast,  is  for  laying  out  a  plan.  Robert  said,  &quot;Here  is  the  way  to  go  about  it.  We'll  all  go  up  the  switch-  back  together  to  the  mesa.  When  we  get  there,  I'll  ride  around  the  crack&quot;-  the  crack  was  a  deep  wash-  out  that  lies  on  the  east  side  of  the  mesa;  there's  a  slope  beyond  it  that  could  have  been  an  escape  route  for  those  mares-&quot;and  hide  in  the  brush.  You  two  get  out  around  them  mares&quot;-he  pronounced  it  mars-  &quot;and  start  them  home.  I'll  make  sure  they  come  back  down  the  trail.  When  they  get  down  here  to  the  flat,  somebody  will  have  to  get  outside  these  horses  and  thataway  turn  them  into  your  corrals.  I  hope  you  don't  mind  me  using  your  cor-  rals.  Course  you  don't.&quot;  I  really  doubted  that  Robert  could  turn  these  horses  at  the  crack.  Wild  horses,  which  these  canners  nearly  was,  would  consider  jumping  that  crack  with  the  possible  outcome  of  breaking  their  necks,  whereas  a  horse  and  rider  com-  bined  would  not  consider  any  such  of  a  thing.  So  that's  where  I  guessed  our  story  would  end.  In  which  case  I  would  be  happy  to  smooth  those  mares  down  the  gentle  back  slope  of  the  mesa,  lock  them  in  the  neighbors',  and  gather  them  when  we  had  usa  suitable  crew.  The  real  relief  was  we  would  avoid  the  situation  below  the  switchback  when  the  horses  got  out  on  the  flat.  Here  is  where  someone  would  have  to  ride  out  around  that  wild  band,  outrun  them  on  broken  ground,  and  turn  them  into  the  corrals.  And  I  wondered  how  all  of  this  might  look  to  Robert,  who  kind  of  de-  spised  our  horsemanship.  I  mean  this  man  worked  for  Niobrara,  XIT,  N  Bar.  He  was  one  of  the  immortals!  Those  folks  had  a  fairly  unstinting  way  of  us-  ing  themselves  in  a  situation  that  would  make  most  people  feel  pretty  reserved.  The  first  thing  we  needed  to  do  was  to  getold  crooked  Robert  on  horseback.  He  led  his  sorrel  mare  out  of  the  pen  behind  the  scales  and  tied  her  to  a  plank     of  the  chute.  She  was  a  little  sickle-  hocked,  which  he  probably  liked,  but  had  good  withers  and  short  pasterns,  real  cow-horse-looking,  kind  of  coon-  footed  and  low-crouped.  It  was  painfulto  watch  him  saddle  her.  He  threw  the  Indian  blanket  up  all  right,  but  when  he  lifted  that  old  Miles  City  Cogshall  saddle  up  we  felt  how  much  it  hurt  him  and  yet  knew  we  oughtn't  to  help.  He  bridled  her  with  a  little  Kelly  Broth-  ers  grazing  bit  and  led  her  around  to  the  front  of  the  chute.  I  glanced  at  Leo.  He  ~  threw  one  rein  up  around  the  horn  and  looped  the  other  around  the  corner  post  of  the  loading  chute.  She  stood  all  right,  but  that  wasn't  no  kid's  horse.  She  was  bad  as  anything  Robert  forced  O.  C.  Drury  to  get  on.  Shehad  her  nos-  trils  blowed  out  and  plenty  of  white  around  her  eyes.  Along  about  inhere,  Robert  Wood  walks  around  to  the  holding  pen,  squeaks  that  old  gate  open,  goes  inside,  and  next  time  we  see  him,  he's  crawling  up  the  chute,  out  the  end,  and  onto  his  horse.  She  snorted  and  backed  away,  and  he  hung  down  around  her  neck  and  got  his  other  rein.  When  he  sat  up  in  the  saddle,  he  had  the  reins  plaited  through  the  fingers  of  his  left  hand  and  he  was  in  charge  of  the  whole  depart-  ment  store.  He  just  lifted  his  hand  about  three-sixteenths  of  an  inch  and  she  sat  down  on  her  hocks  and  backed  clear  across  the  ranch  yard.  Then  he  straight-  ened  up,  threw  her  some  slack,  and  she  stood  square  to  the  world,  looking  for  work.  Had  it  of  been  O.  C.  Drury,  she'd  of  bucked  his  ass  over  the  granary.  We  headed  up  single  file,  and  I  stayed  a  little  behind  to  watch  Robert.  His  shoulders  were  back,  and  he  sat  ramrod-straight  in  the  middle  of  his  saddle,  his  boots  plumb  home  inhis  old  iron  oxbows.  Every  once  in  a  while,  he  turned  real  slow  in  his  saddle  and  gave  my  Mexican  a  good  looking-at.  It  wasn't  long  before  we  were  on  top.  Leo  loped  out  to  the  west  and  made  a  little  dust.  His  small  form  sank,  and  then  nearly  disappeared  as  he  made  a  big  ride  around  the  horses.  They  had  wheeled  up  to  watch  him  and  only  be-  gan  to  disperse  and  feed  as  the  circle  he  made  came  to  seem  too  grand  to  con-  cern  them.  I  was  able  to  ride  straight  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  10,  1994  back  to  the  far  side  of  the  mesa,  and  by  the  time  I  got  there,  Leo  was  closing  in  my  direction,  and  those  horses,  two  miles  off,  had  already  begun  to  drift  away  from  us.  I  know  we  meant  to  ease  them  on  out  of  there,  but  it  just  wasn't  anything  easy  to  it.  Those  mares  started  off  across  that  flattop,  and  in  two  jumps  they  were  smoking.  However  far  off  horses  can  see  each  other,  they're  communicating,  and  the  horses  under  Leo  and  me  caught  that  gust  of  fear  and  like  to  snaked  out  from  under  us  and  made  for  that  wild  band.  Leo  went  crabwise  toward  the  horses,  and  his  horse  was  about  to  start  bucking.  My  gelding  just  tried  to  pack  his  head  in  my  lap,  but  since  this  was  a  vice  of  his  at  other  times,  and  as  I  was  unwilling  to  break  a  whiskey  bottle  full  of  water  over  his  thick  skull  the  way  most  folks  do  to  get  their  heads  down,  I  had  him  in  a  running  martingale  and  chain  curb,  and  he  plain  had  to  look  out  through  his  bridle  and  be  a  gentleman.  So  I  got  the  best  of  him,  and  Leo  his,  and  we  managed  tostay  to  the  rear  of  those  mares,  who  by  now  had  such  a  cloud  of  dust  behind  them  that  it  just  seemed  to  drift  off  into  that  day's  weather  like  from  a  grass  fire.  And  I'm  surethat  ever  since  we  watched  Robert  float  off,  we  knew  how  coarse-broke  we  had  our  ponies.  It  was  clear  there  was  no  reasonable  way  to  turn  them  down  the  road.  And  even  if  Robert  had  been  prepared  to  do  so,  he  was  at  that  time  nowhere  in  sight.  But  the  mares  must  have  winded  him,  because  they  slowed  down  enough  for  us  to  close  on  them  somewhat,  and  even  appear  to  drive  them  orderly  like.  The  right  place  to  get  their  attention  and  make  them  turn  was  that  big  earthquake  fault  ahead  of  us,  which  a  man  couldn't  cross  with  a  horse.  So  we  weren't  going  to  turn  these  horses.  We  were  just  go-  ing  to  throw  them  off  the  slope  ahead  and  scatter  them  out  among  those  little  ranches  along  the  river,  where  they'd  play  hell  with  the  farming.  Right  here  that  all  changed.  Way  past  that  crack  inthe  ground,  Robert  broke  out  of  the  brush  on  his  horse,  the  sorrel  mare  coming  out  in  a  flurry,  sage  and  greasewood  staubs  cracking  off  in  the  air  around  her.  Those  wild  horses  just  froze.  Either  they  would  leapthat  crack  and  fly  past  him  or  Robert  could  " b"FAMILY  leap  that  crack  and  turn  them  down  to-  ward  the  house.  It  was  thatsimple.  We  knew  very  well  Robert  couldn't  consider  such  a  thing,  and  before  it  became  any  kind  of  a  problem  we  had  an  opportu-  nity  to  look  this  band  over.  There  was  sixteenhorses,  and  about  ten  of  them  were  pretty  uniform-looking  sorrel  horses  that  showed  a  kinship  to  Robert's  mount.  The  remainder  was  nothing  but  cayuses-interbred,  Roman  noses-and  had  big  hairy  feet  all  outof  proportion  to  their  size.  Back  at  the  time  of  the  Boer  War,some  remount  outfit  had  turned  draft  studs  among  these  sorrel  animals  to  put  some  size  on  them,  but  it  all  ended  up  in  their  feet  and  heads.  They  even  seemed  to  hurt  Leo's  eyes.  Presently,  they  boiled  back  toward  us  and  we  whooped  and  hollered.  Leo  took  down  his  slicker  and  got  them  bunched  up  once  more  toward  the  trail,  where  they  didn't  want  to  go.  Robert  was  yell-  ing,  &quot;Drive  'em,  boys!&quot;  and  so  we  did.  They  advanced  his  way  like  a  bright-col-  ored  little  cyclone,  and  just  before  they  broke  around  him  Robert  spurred  his  mare  forward,  hollering  and  stretched  up  over  her  neck.  She  closed  on  that  earthquake  fault  just  burning  a  hole  in  the  wind,  and  when  she  reached  it  she  curved  up,  into  the  air,  Robert  easing  back  into  the  saddle  with  his  stirrups  pushed  out  in  front  toward  the  landing  he  hoped  they  would  both  make.  And  as  long  ago  as  that  has  come  to  be,  I  can  still  see  the  utter  blackness  of  that  open-  ing  in  the  ground,  which  really  should  have  been  Robert's  grave,  and  that  old  man  floating  above  its  grasp,  apparently  seventeen  years  old,  and  his  smart  old  mare  reaching  her  long  beautiful  legs  for  the  far  shore.  Afterward,  when  I  asked  Leo  how  long  she  had  been  in  the  air,  he  said,  &quot;Tres  horas.  Mas  o  menos.&quot;  Well,  they  made  it.  And  she  sat  down  into  her  stop  in  a  cloud  of  dust  and  just  confounded  those  wild  horses.  In  fact,  Robert  leaned  up  with  both  hands  on  the  pommel  of  his  saddle,  the  deep  slack  of  his  reins  hanging  under  the  sorrel's  neck,  and  tooktime  to  count  them.  Then  we  resumed,  a  very  orderly  trot  down  the  ranch  road  gazing  over  the  packed,hurryingbacks  of  the  horses.  Those  mares  recognized  they  was  back  in  Mr.  Robert  Wood's  remuda  and  were  relaxed  as  could  be.  When  they  were  corralled,  Robert  said  inhis  singsong  voice,  &quot;That  sure  is  a  relief.  I  was  afraid  we  might  have  trouble  with  them.&quot;  He  rode  over  to  where  he'd  left  his  bedroll  and  paused  there.  &quot;Bill,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  was  going  to  ask  your  Mexican  to  cheek  this  mare  while  I  slid  off,  but  I'm  confusing  her  with  her  mother.  Shewas  bad  to  paw  at  you  when  you  got  down.  But  she's  over  there  in  that  corral.&quot;  THEN  his  father  grinned,  a  different  grin.  Clay  imagined  that  his  fa-  ther's  expression  indicated  he  hadn't  meant  to  hold  him  up  so  long.  &quot;I'm  going  to  have  to  leave  you,  Dad.&quot;  &quot;I  wenton  and  on,  didn't  I?&quot;  Clay  didn't  say  anything  at  first.  Then  he  said,  &quot;Karen's  supposed  to  ar-  rive.&quot;  Clay  met  Karen  in  the  lobby.  Lewis  was  with  her,  and  from  the  looks  of  him  the  shot  hadn't  gone  well.  He  was  about  eight,  redheaded,  and  a  dramatic  boy.  Karen  told  him  to  go  see  his  grandfather  and  that  she  would  be  along  in  half  an  hour.  When  he  ran  off  down  the  hall,  feet  flying  out  behind  him,  Clay  said,  &quot;In  a  half  hour?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  we've  got  to  pick  out  a  plot.  They're  holding  three  of  them  but  they're  pressing  me.&quot;  THE  cemetery  was  near  the  Yellow-  stone,  and  it  had  a  dashing  moun-  tain  brook  that  wound  through  it  like  a  little  silver  train,  speeding  through  the  spruce  trees  that  shaded  the  graves.  The  first  rows  were  pioneers,  and  offto  the  south  end  was  a  kind  of  Boot  Hill  that  held  the  gamblers,  lawmen,  prostitutes,  and  all  five  members  of  the  Bellmuir  Gang  of  horse-and-cattle  thieves.  The  graveyardgot  more  modern  as  you  moved  toward  the  mountains,  finally  in-  cluding  a  few  people  Clay  had  gone  to  high  school  with.  There  was  the  grave  of  Charlie  Derby,  killed  by  a  rodeo  bull,  and  Milly  Makkinen,  homecoming  queen,  dead  of  a  drug  overdose.  &quot;Karen,  look  at  this.&quot;  Clay  was  stand-  ing  at  a  grave.  Karen  came  over  and  read  the  headstone.  &quot;Nobody  I  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  had  anice  long  life,  though,  didn't  he?&quot;  &quot;Dad  never  told  you  the  story  of  Robert  Wood?  'The  last  of  the  open-  range  cowboys&quot;?  \xe2\x80\x9cNope.\xe2\x80\x9d  69  &quot;Oh.  Well,  I  just  heard  it.  I  just  heard  it  today.&quot;  Karen  walked  over  to  a  newer  area,  an  unoccupied  area.  It  had  been  un-  tended  long  enough  to  let  some  wild  timothy  spring  up  and  some  cheat  grass,  too.  &quot;We  canhave  up  to  five  right  here.&quot;  &quot;This  is  the  way  to  be  in  the  real-  estate  business.&quot;  &quot;That's  about  the  size  of  it,&quot;  said  Karen,  and  her  head  dropped.  Clay  put  his  arms  around  her.  He  could  think  of  all  the  reasons  she  might  be  crying,  but  he  could  never  rise  above  his  own  sense  of  injustice.  He  never  mourned,  he  be-  came  indignant.  &quot;Nobody's  gota  lease,&quot;  Clay  said  into  her  hair.  He  was  thinking  of  the  guy  beating  him  out  ofan  overhaul,  old  friend  of  Dad's,  a  son  of  abitch  like  ev-  eryone  else.  &quot;You're  so  damn  glib.&quot;  She  pushed  away  from  him.  &quot;We'll  take  those,  un-  less  you  feel  strongly  against  it.&quot;  &quot;Take  those  what?&quot;  he  asked  ab-  sently.  She  said,  &quot;Plots.&quot;  LAY  had  to  sit  up  with  Bill  again.  The  night  nurse  let  him  in,  ob-  structing  his  way  up  the  hall  just  long  enough  to  exchange  a  glance.  She  had  high,  arching  eyebrows,  which  gave  her  a  surprised  look,  and  she  had  put  some  preparation  in  her  hair  that  made  it  appear  continuously  damp.  After  a  cer-  tain  point  in  a  long  illness,  the  visitors  become  the  patients,  as  though  the  primary  effects  of  the  disease  were  al-  ready  too  obvious  to  bear  noticing.  He  thought  she'd  probably  start  screaming  if  he  kissed  her.  Or,  these  days,  write  in  to  some  magazine.  Clay  stopped  in  the  doorway.  He  looked  at  his  father's  sleeping  face.  He  seemed  at  peace.  Hell,  Clay  thought,  he  probably  is  at  peace.  Dad  always  did  what  he  felt  like.  He  might  as  well  go  now.This  terrible  situation  had  endured  so  long  it  had  lost  its  fearfulness  for  ev-  eryone,  even  for  Bill.  Clay  suddenly  felt  a  seething  ache  that  he  was  going  to  lose  his  father.  It  surprised  him.  It  was  out  of  love,  and  even  admira-  tion,  that  Clay  said  aloud,  &quot;Why  don't  you  just  die?&quot;  Bill  opened  the  blue  eyes  Clay  never  got.  &quot;Clay,&quot;  Bill  said,  &quot;I'm  doing  the  best  I  can.&quot;  \xc2\xa2  "