 LIVE  NWIRES  BY  THOMAS   HE  living  room  is  quiet  and  se-  rene,  and  Alex  Fader  takes  a  deep  breath,  as  if  the  silence  were  a  fragrance.  Then  the  doorbell  rings.  He  stands  up  and  goes  to  answer  it,  wondering  which  guests  have  arrived  first  and  feeling  slightly  annoyed  at  them  for  being  on  time.  He  makes  strange  and  dramatic  faces  as  he  walks  to  the  door;  he  has  just  shaved,  and  his  skin  has  the  texture  of  Plexiglas.  He  puts  his  hand  on  the  cool  doorknob,  makes  one  last  face,  and  catches  a  glimpse  of  himself  in  the  hallway  mirror.  &quot;Electrocution,&quot;  he  says,  and  flings  the  door  open.  &quot;Hi!&quot;  he  nearly  shrieks.  &quot;It's  the  Brienfields!&quot;  &quot;Hell-00,  Alexander!&quot;  ery  the  Brien-  fields  and  begin  to  pile  into  the  apart-  ment,  crowded  together  under  the  weight  of  their  winter  coats  and  scarves  and  gloves,  and  a  big  shopping  bag  that  contains  the  gifts.  They  see  the  empty  living  room  and  exclaim,  &quot;We're  first!&quot;  with  a  hint  of  dismay.  Alex  stares  into  the  hearty,  broad  face  of  Mr.  Brienfield.  It  is  a  face  he  has  been  greeting  at  these  Hanukkah  parties  for  the  past  fourteen  years,  but  this  time  it  seems  a  little  different;  it's  as  though  the  blood  behind  Mr.  Brienfield's  cheeks  has  thinned  somewhat,  while  the  brow  that  sits  like  aridge  above  his  eyes  has  thick-  ened.  At  twenty-five,  Alex  has  begun  to  see  his  mother's  friends  in  a  new  light.  &quot;Here,  give  me  everything,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  thecoat-check.&quot;  Years  of  practice  have  made  Alex  expert  at  getting  people  to  part  with  their  coats.  He  heads  down  the  long,  dark  hallway  in  the  direction  of  his  mother's  room,  where  the  bed  is  the  designated  resting  spot  for  coats.  &quot;Mom!&quot;  he  whispers  at  the  closed  door  to  the  dressing  room.  &quot;People  are  here!&quot;  Hurryingback  to  the  living  room,he  tries  to  think  of  something  to  say  to  the  Brienfields.  Their  relation  to  him,  like  that  of  so  many  of  the  people  who  come  to  the  party,  is  no  longer  definable-  they're  just  there,  a  fixed  part  of  the  land-  scape  of  affiliations  and  friends  of  the  Fader  family,  that  sprawling  brood  of  two.  BELLER  The  doorbell  ringsagain,  and  then  he  hears  the  metallic  click  of  the  door  open-  ing.  Panic  touches  him.  What  if  it's  Christine?  he  thinks,  and  then,  What  could  Christine  and  the  Brienfields  pos-  sibly  talk  about?  What  in  the  world  was  I  thinking  when  I  invited  her  to  this  thing?  He  enters  the  foyer  just  as  the  Zuckermans  come  walking  in.  Some  pri-  vate  moment  of  truth  has  been  post-  poned,  and  Alex  smiles  like  a  slot-  machine  player  who  has  just  won  small.  He  likes  the  Zuckermans,  as  a  family  and  individually.  The  parents  are  hand-  some,  successful,  and  reserved,  and  the  kids  are  appealingly  bashful.  &quot;Come  in,  come  in,  come  in!&quot;  says  Alex,  and  he  presses  hands  and  kisses  cheeks.  A  damp  coldness  still  hangs  on  the  Zuckermans'  coats;  they  live  just  four  blocks  up  Riverside  Drive  and  have  walked.  &quot;Give  me  all  your  stuff.  My  mother-&quot;  But  just  then  their  faces  turn  together  and  brighten  as  if  an  angel  had  appeared.  Alex  turns  and  sees  his  mother  entering  the  foyer  in  a  white  silk  shirt  and  billowy  black  pants;  her  clothes  undulate  with  each  step,  giving  her  the  appearance  not  so  much  of  walking  as  of  floating.  Her  face  has  the  special  radiance  and  charm  it  takes  on  when  she  is  anticipating  the  company  of  people  she  likes.  The  Brien-  fields  and  Zuckermans  all  move  toward  her  instinctively,  and  Alex  feels  like  anun-  moving  pier  deserted  by  an  outgoing  tide.  His  mother's  translucent  happiness  provokes  in  him  a  mixture  of  elation  and  disgust.  Watching  her  now,  he's  re-  minded  of  Anna  Karenina.  He  has  been  reading  the  book  for  the  first  time  since  high  school,  and  he  has  come  tosee  more  and  more  of  his  mother  in  the  character  of  Anna.  For  one  thing,  the  two  women  both  have  a  glowing  and  un-  affected  manner  that  people  are  drawn  to.  That,  and  a  maddening  willfulness.  Watching  his  mother  now,  Alex  thinks,  It's  a  bitch  having  a  mother  who  belongs  to  the  nineteenth  century.  The  Zuckermans  descend  on  her  with  cries  of  joy,  mouths  pucker  into  kisses,  and  fingers  clasp  necks  and  caress  cheeks.  The  doorbell  rings  again,  andAlex  flees  down  the  dim  hallway  with  another  armload  of  coats.  The  annual  Fader  Ha-  nukkah  party  is  officially  under  way.  THE  apartment  has  become  crowded,  and  Alex  moves  from  room  to  room,  past  people  standing  in  little  circles  as  if  around  campfires.  He  doesn't  join  in  the  conversations  yet,  but  pauses  next  to  each  one  just  long  enough  to  get  its  flavor.  There  is  something  odd  and  exhilarating  about  having  so  many  lives  suddenly  packed  within  walls  that  are  used  to  so  few.  When  he  was  a  boy,  he  would  become  delighted  and  intimidated  by  this  transformation  to  such  a  degree  that  he  had  to  take  breaks  in  his  mother's  room,  burying  his  face  among  the  coats  and  breathing  the  musty  personal  scent  of  dried  rain  and  old  perfume.  Now  he  continues  to  roam,  taking  in  the  bright  faces.  He  doesn't  live  here  anymore,  but  in  a  way  he  does.  But  he  doesn't.  He  finds  his  mother  in  the  kitchen,  slicing  cherry  tomatoes  into  a  huge  wooden  salad  bowl.  He  comes  up  next  to  her  and  watches  as  the  sharp  blade  presses  against  the  red  flesh  of  each  to-  mato,  penetrates  it  after  encountering  some  resistance,  and  then  quickly  moves  through  it,  miraculously  stopping  just  as  it  reaches  her  thumb.  &quot;How's  it  going?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  she  says,  startled.  &quot;Very  good.  I'm  almost  done.&quot;  &quot;Everybody  is  asking  for  you,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  keep  hearing  your  name  murmured  here  and  there.  It's  like  you're  some  greatly  anticipated  celebrity  who  hasn't  arrived  yet.&quot;  He  scowls  as  he  says  this,  and  his  mother  at  once  picks  up  his  train  of  thought.  &quot;Is  Christine  here  yet?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;No.  Not  yet.  I  don't  know  why  I  in-  vited  her.  She's  not  even  Jewish.&quot;  &quot;Alexander!  That  doesn't  matter.  Many  people  come  here  who  aren't  Jewish.&quot;  It's  true.  This  is  a  carefully  secular  Hanukkah  party,  as  usual.  But  if  it  doesn't  matter,  he  feels  like  saying,  why  do  we  bother  to  celebrate  Hanukkah  or  Passover,  or  ever  debate  fasting  on  Yom  " b"Kippur?  But  he  knows  the  answer-or  rather,  he  doesn't  know  the  answer  but  somehow  understands  it.  &quot;Well,  I  imagine  she's  probably  late  because  she's  terrified,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  de-  scribed  the  goings  on  here  and  I  think  I  saw  her  cringe  when  I  mentioned  the  singing.&quot;  &quot;She'll  enjoy  it,&quot;  says  his  mother,  fin-  ishing  with  the  last  tomato.  &quot;She's  open-  minded.&quot;  Alex  feels  a  stab  of  irritation  at  his  mother  for  presuming  things  about  his  girlfriend,  though  what  she  says  about  Christine  is  probably  right.  The  two  have  met  several  times,  and  although  their  styles  could  not  be  more  different,  they  have  seemed  to  connect.  Alex  has  been  intensely  sensitive  to  the  progress  of  these  encounters.  Christine  is  eight  years  older  thanhe  and  occupies  a  strange  place  in  the  age  spectrum,  somewhere  between  himself  and  his  mother.  This  worries  him,  for  some  reason.  &quot;Come,&quot;  says  his  mother.  &quot;Let's  go  out  to  the  party.&quot;  They  step  shyly  into  the  foyer,  pausing  together  to  survey  the  scene.  Then  someone  rushes  up  to  Alex's  mother  with  outstretched  arms.  &quot;Eve!&quot;  the  woman  cries.  &quot;Eve,  hi.  My  God,  I  was  wondering  ifI  was  going  to  see  you  at  your  own  party!&quot;  The  woman  is  quite  tall  and  thin,  and  her  arms  tighten  around  his  mother  like  a  lasso.  She  is  one  of  those  guests  who  show  up  each  year  whose  names  Alex  can  never  remember.  Last  December,  he  discovered  that  she  was  a  criminal  judge,  and  as  he  watches  her  embrace  his  mother  now  he  tries  to  contrast  the  im-  age  with  one  of  her  sitting  on  the  bench,  meting  out  stiff  sentences.  Alex  drifts  away,  noticing  details  in  their  apartment-a  small  violin  case,  dust-covered,  that  sits  under  the  piano,  an  antique  dagger  hanging  on  the  wall-  that  he  never  notices  unless  other  people  are  present.  It's  as  if  each  object  projects  light.  BER  on,  with  the  party  now  in  full  swing,  Alex  is  talking  to  one  of  his  mother's  old  friends,  Mrs.  Talman.  She  has  been  dear  to  him  ever  since  they  first  met,  when  he  was  about  eleven  and  she  pressed  his  head  into  her  warm,  plenti-  ful,  and  highly  fragrant  breasts,  in  a  po-  lite  but  enveloping  embrace.  Now  that  he  is  grown-up,  it  is  her  head  that  seems  about  to  be  pressed  into  his  chest,  but  he  still  feels  a  charge  whenever  they  are  to-  gether.  She  has  glittering,  dark  eyes  and  tan,  Mediterranean  skin.  &quot;Look  at  this  handsome  man,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  hear  that  your  girlfriend  is  going  to  be  here.  I  can't  wait  to  meet  her.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  says  Alex  defensively.  &quot;Because  she's  your  girlfriend.  I'm  cu-  rious  to  see  what  kind  of  company  you're  keeping.&quot;  Noticing  the  distressed  look  on  his  face,  she  adds,  &quot;The  advance  word  has  been  very  favorable.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  quite  sure  why  I  invited  her.  I  think  I  figured  that  if  I  didn't,  it  would  be  like  hiding  something  from  her.&quot;  &quot;Or  from  us.&quot;  &quot;The  things  I've  been  hiding  from  my  mother  and  her  friends  could  fill  a  text-  book.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  about  that,&quot;  says  Mrs.  Talman.  &quot;Children  always  overestimate  the  naivet\xc3\xa9  of  their  parents.  When  it  comes  down  to  it,  our  secrets  are  much  more  shocking  than  yours.&quot;  It  is  into  this  atmosphere  that  Alex's  current  girlfriend  and  passionate  flame,  Christine  Derry,  steps  gingerly.  Alarm  overtakes  him  as  he  sees  her  standing  in  the  vestibule,  looking  into  the  mass  of  chatting  guests  with  the  expression  of  someone  on  a  high  diving  board  peering  at  the  pool  below.  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  he  says  out  loud,  as  though  a  fire  had  just  broken  out.  He  glances  apologetically  at  Mrs.  Talman  and  rushes  toward  Christine.  All  his  rationalizations  for  her  presence  crumble  in  the  face  of  disaster.  What  is  it  about  her  at  this  party  that  makes  him  so  un-  easy?  He  has  been  putting  the  question  to  himself,  and  his  answers  feel  insuffi-  cient.  He  and  she  have  come  from  different  backgrounds-hers  suburban     109  and  Midwestern-and  now  at  this  party  his  own  background  has  been  laid  bare  in  all  its  foreignness.  And  then  there  is  the  difference  in  theirages,  a  detail  that  would  be  undetectable-she  has  youth-  ful  features  and  fine,  unlined  skin-ex-  cept  that  her  hair,  which  is  cut  short,  to  just  below  her  ears,  is  unabashedly,  al-  most  defiantly,  gray.  None  of  this  has  proved  to  be  an  obstacle  during  their  year  together-in  fact,  these  differences  have  made  their  closeness  all  the  more  excit-  ing-but  now  it  worries  him.  As  he  approaches  Christine,  he  feels  a  strong  pulse  of  sensations  he  remem-  bers  from  their  first  meeting.  In  their  first  conversation,  at  another  party,  she  had  gazed  at  him  impassively  with  her  wide  gray-blue  eyes,  her  center  of  grav-  ity  fixed  with  such  calm  precision  that  shehardly  shifted  her  weight  as  they  talked.  A  wave  of  anger  had  overtaken  him.  She  seemed  to  be  speaking  to  him  from  within  a  glass  case,  and  he  wanted  nothing  more  than  to  shatter  the  glass.  What  he  had  ended  up  shattering  was  his  plastic  wineglass,  which  he  had  mas-  saged  with  increasing  force  until  it  cracked  and  spilled  his  drink  all  over  their  shoes.  It  was  during  the  ensuing  laughter  (hers)  and  stammered  apologies  (his)  that  they  first  connected.  His  subsequent  familiarity  with  the  details  of  her  life-her  job  at  an  adver-  tising  agency,  her  fussy  insistence  on  drinking  tea  with  enormous  amounts  of  honey  first  thing  in  the  morning,  her  lamentations  about  a  jury  summons-  had  slightly  lessened  his  wish  to  shatter  something,  and  with  this  change  came  an  almost  gallant  protectiveness.  &quot;You're  late,&quot;  he  begins  to  say,  but " b"110  then  catches  himself.  &quot;It's  our  guest  of  honor!&quot;  he  says  instead.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  crowded.&quot;  He  bends  over  and  brings  his  face  near  hers.  They've  gotten  into  the  habit  of  greeting  each  other  by  brushing  the  tips  of  their  noses.  &quot;Td  have  been  here  sooner,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;but  two  pigeons  landed  on  my  window  sill  and  were  going  through  this  feverish  courtship.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  pigeons  made  out  in  December,&quot;  Alex  says.  He  is  frowning.  &quot;Let  me  take  your  coat.  It's  my  big  job  here,  coat  check.  I've  developed  a  talent  for  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  anyone,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;What  were  you  expecting?  These  are  friendly  old  Jewish  people.&quot;  He  doesn't  know  why  he  said  the  word  &quot;Jewish,&quot;  except  perhaps  to  get  it  out  of  the  way.  He  has  never  had  an  affair  with  a  Jewish  girl.  It  hasn't  been  a  conscious  decision,  but  it  has  become  a  noticeable  fact.  &quot;I'll  introduce  you  to  some  people.  I've  been  told  that  your  ar-  rival  is  greatly  anticipated.&quot;  &quot;By  whom?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  exactly.  I  guess  a  lot  of  these  people  have  known  me  since  I  was  little,  and  they're  curious  to  know  what  kind  of  company  I'm  keeping.&quot;  &quot;They'll  be  horrified  to  know  you're  dating  an  old  hag.&quot;  As  she  says  this  she  slips  out  of  her  coat.  It  is  a  big  gray  woolen  thing,  and  her  body  emerges  from  it  like  thetender  insides  ofan  enormous  nut.  Her  dress  is  pink,  her  arms  bare.  She  looks  like  candy,  he  thinks.  &quot;I'll  be  right  back,&quot;  he  says.  He  hurries  down  the  hallway  with  her  coat,  throws  it  on  the  bed,  and  is  about  to  hurry  back  when  the  bed  catches  his  eye.  It  is  piled  high  with  voluptuous  winter  coats,  and  a  tremendous  urge  to  take  a  swan  dive  into  the  pile  comes  over  him.  He  pauses,  debating  it,  and  then  remembers  that  his  last  such  dive  there,  at  age  thirteen,  had  pro-  duced  a  sharp  cracking  sound,  after  which  there  was  always  a  sag  in  one  part  of  the  bed.  Anyway,  he's  a  grownup  now.  HEN  Alex  returns  to  the  foyer  Christine  is  gone.  A  quick  scan  locates  her  at  the  other  side  of  the  room,  with  a  woman  named  Julia.  She  is  anice  lady  who  has  been  coming  to  the  Ha-  nukkah  party  year  after  year.  She  is  one  of  several  women  who  show  up  alone  at  these  parties;  they  occupy  an  age  some-  where  between  the  mid-forties  and  mid-  sixties,  and  have  an  upbeatbut  somewhat  beleaguered  quality.  Alex  has  always  looked  at  them  with  a  mixture  of  curi-  osity  and  trepidation,  the  way  someone  waiting  to  go  into  a  haunted  house  looks  at  the  people  just  emerging.  These  are  women-there  are  a  few  men  who  come  alone,  too,  but  they  are  different-who  have  wound  their  way  through  love  and  marriage  and  children  and  divorce,  and  even  death,  and  now,  he  sees,  find  them-  selves  blinking  outside  in  the  daylight,  alone.  It's  strange  to  think  that  this  is  a  group  that  his  mother  belongs  to,  as  well,  though  somehow  she  doesn't  have  that  blinking  quality.  Alex  arrives  in  time  to  hear  Julia  say  toChristine,  &quot;Really.  I'm  serious.  Like  in  those  trashy  romance  novels,  you  know,  when  they  describe  the  heroine's  skin-  you  know:  smooth,  white,  porcelain,  fair,  twenty  adjectives  in  a  row  -they're  de-  scribing  your  skin.  Really.  I  know.  I  wrote  one.&quot;  &quot;That's  nice  of  you,&quot;  said  Christine.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  believe  you,  though.&quot;  Alex  flashes  to  an  image  of  Christine  stepping  into  their  bed  with  several  lay-  ers  of  expensive  and  mysterious  creams  and  mists  massaged  into  her  face.  The  process,  which  they  jokingly  refer  to  as  &quot;the  beauty  ritual,&quot;  is  so  elaborate  that  itis  a  struggle  for  Alex  to  stay  awake  through  it,  and  often  he  is  awakened  by  Christine's  body,  in  her  pink  pajamas,  sliding  into  bed  next  to  him.  &quot;Hello,  Alex,&quot;  says  Julia  distractedly.  &quot;I  was  just  telling  your  friend  that  shehas  exactly  the  kind  of-&quot;  &quot;She  thinks  I  look  like  one  of  those  women  in  trashy  books  who  are  innocent  and  pure  and  end  up  sleeping  with  ter-  rible  men,&quot;  says  Christine.  &quot;That's  not  quite  how  I  put  it,&quot;  says  Julia.  She  is  about  to  elaborate  when  a  " b"  shushing  sound  sweeps  through  the  room  and  attention  moves  to  the  baby  grand  piano  in  one  corner  of  the  room,  behind  which  stands  his  mother.  &quot;Everybody,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;it's  time  for  the  singing.  Those  who  know  how  it  goes,  and  there  should  be  many  of  you  by  now,  please  sing  along,  and  those  who  are  new,  there  are  sheets  being  passed  around.&quot;  Guests  gather  from  all  parts  of  the  apartment,  crowding  into  the  living  room  bearing  chairs  and  drinks,  and  now  fumbling  with  the  song  sheets.  Alex  looks  at  Christine  with  an  apologetic  expression.  &quot;Does  this  seem  really  weird?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It  seems  nice.&quot;  Her  answer  doesn't  quell  his  anxiety,  and  he  is  called  over  to  the  piano.  It  is  time  for  the  lighting  of  the  candles.  People  sit  in  chairs  pressed  up  close  to  one  another,  making  an  unruly  semicircle  around  the  piano.  Four  unfortunate  guests  are  perched  on  the  remains  of  the  couch,  which  is  elegant  in  its  appearance,  a  few  rips  aside,  but  otherwise  com-  pletely  ruined.  Anyone  sitting  down  on  it,  Alex  knows,  is  sucked  down  into  a  swirl  of  cushions  and  springs,  and  prac-  tically  lowered  to  the  floor.  He  stares  at  two  couples  lined  up  there:  each  person  is  trying  to  act  as  if  the  awkward  posi-  tion  they've  been  placed  in-knees  up  near  their  armpits-is  not  unusual.  He  vows  not  to  make  a  nervous  joke  about  the  couch.  He  has  made  a  joke  about  it  every  year  for  as  long  as  he  can  remem-  ber.  Then,  with  the  oily  loquaciousness  of  a  lounge-act  m.c.,  he  murmurs,  &quot;Um,  if  anyone  is  missing  a  friend,  you  might  want  to  check  the  couch.  It's  a  lovely  couch  but  its  relation  to  furniture  is  simi-  lar  to  the  Venus  flytrap's  relation  to  flowers.&quot;  Then  the  matches  are  handed  to  him.  Silence.  A  little  red-tipped  twig  in  his  fingers.  The  thunderous  crack  of  the  tip  against  the  brown  flint  of  the  match-  book.  Success,  on  the  very  first  try.  And  then  the  horrible,  aching,  off-key  sound  of  his  own  voice  half  chanting,  half  sing-  ing,  as  he  lights  the  middle  candle  and  then  passes  its  flame  from  candle  to  candle.  It  is  the  last  night  of  Hanukkah,  so  all  eight  candles  have  to  be  lit,  and  he  tries  to  get  each  wick  going  as  soon  as  possible.  &quot;Baruch  ata  adonai  eloheinu  melech  haolam,&quot;  he  croaks.  &quot;Asher  kidshanu  bemitzvotav  .  ..&quot;  He  manages  to  sing  with  a  moderate  amount  of  vigor,  telling  himself  that  his  religion  seems  to  stipulate  that  such  songs  be  sung  in  a  discordant  wavering  voice,  with  hardly  any  sense  of  rhythm.  When  it  is  over  he  joins  his  mother  on  the  piano  bench,  and  the  room  stumbles  its  way  through  the  first  song,  his  mother  almost  the  only  one  to  sing  the  words  in  a  clear,  melodic  voice.  At  the  end  Alex  feels  a  huge  sense  of  relief  mingled  with  regret.  Everyone,  he  has  noticed,  feels  uncomfortable  with  the  singing  until  the  last  note  has  begun  to  fade,  at  which  point  everyone  pretends  to  have  enjoyed  it  all.  It's  Hanukkah.  The  pile  of  gifts  under  the  menorah  looms  large,  and  appetizing  smells  waft  in  from  the  kitchen.  &quot;Very  good!&quot;  his  mother  calls  out  when  the  last  mooing,  mumbling  words  have  died  away.  &quot;Let's  try  that  one  again!&quot;  Alex  feels  the  room's  collective  heart  sink,  and  he  bends  his  head  so  as  not  to  have  to  look  at  anyone.  The  guests  launch  into  it  again,  and  this  time  a  few  more  voices  join  in:  &quot;Maoz  Tsur  yeshuati  .  ..&quot;  When  it's  over,  his  mother  plays  another,  slightly  more  lively  song.  And  then  finally  a  last,  peppy  one.  &quot;This  one  is  called  'Sevivon,'&quot;  she  says,  &quot;and  it's  about  a  little  dreidel  which  is  very  mischievous  and  runs  through  the  woods  and  the  streams  and  goesany-  where  it  wants.&quot;  The  words  &quot;woods  and  streams&quot;  seem  almost  criminal  to  Alex.  They  belong  to  a  pre-ironic  language  that  the  world  has  long  since  cast  aside.  His  mother  starts  to  play.  He  stares  at  her  fingers  on  the  white  and  black  keys.  They  aren't  the  world's  most  elegant  fingers,  yet  they  exude  the  maddening  kind  of  optimism  possessed  by  people  who  like  to  plant  gardens.  The  lyrics  of  this  last  song  are  repetitive,  and  more  and  more  people  gradually  join  in  the  singing.  His  mother  quickens  the  pace,  and  without  stopping  spins  the  song  into  a  second  go-around.  For  a  moment  Alex  lets  his  eyes  flick  upward.  He  sees  a  tab-  leau  of  faces,  some  sombre,  some  cheer-  ful,  some  staring  with  concentration  down  at  individual  sheets  of  paper  while  they  sing,  some  singing  heartily  to  the  ceiling,  some  outright  faking  it.  He  half  glimpses  Christine,  sitting  in  one  corner,  and  can't  tell  if  her  lips  are  moving.  All  the  faces  are  bathed  in  a  warm  light  from  the  lamps  around  the  room;  some  of  the  silk  lampshades,  he  knows,  are  ripped  on  the  inside,  and  fringes  of  silk  hang  down  like  vines;  others  are  so  old  that  they  cast  a  yellow  glow,  like  a  candle's.  The  moment  seems  to  contain  everything  about  life  that  is  attractive  and  perfect  and  nourishing  and  also  every-  thing  that  makes  one  want  to  flee  and  hide  under  a  rock  and  hope  that  some-  one  someday  might  find  a  cure  for-  For  the  awkward,  transparent  fragility  of  people  such  as  these.  T  is  over.  Gifts  are  distributed-a  sur-  feit  of  scarves  for  the  men,  more  per-  sonal  things  for  the  women-and  then  everyone  begins  to  file  into  the  study  for  dinner,  a  buffet.  Alex  finds  Christine  talking  to  Mrs.  Zuckerman.  He  catches  Christine's  eye  but  then  decides  to  leave  her  alone.  She  and  Mrs.  Zuckerman  seem  relaxed  together.  A  sense  of  light-  ness  comes  over  him,  now  that  the  main  event  is  over.  Finally  relinquishing  her  du-  ties,  his  mother  is  roaming  around,  talk-  ing  to  people,  and  Alex  keeps  shifting  his  gaze  from  Christine  to  his  mother  and  back.  They're  like  two  live  wires,  separate  yet  each  connected  to  him.  He  is  aware  of  an  impulse  to  keep  them  apart,  but  doesn't  know  what  it  means.  The  party  starts  to  wind  down-a  gradual  thinning  and  then  a  sudden  rush.  Then  it  is  done.  The  last  people  crowd  down  the  hallway  in  a  group,  holding  their  coats  and  gifts.  There  is  an  awk-  ward  period  in  the  hall,  while  the  eleva-  tor  climbs  and  slows,  and  everyone's  at-  tention  turns  to  the  churning,  wheezing  sounds  it  makes  as  it  prepares  to  stop.  They  huddle  in,  offer  a  last,  frantic  flurry  of  waves  and  goodbyes  as  if  they  were  on  the  deck  of  a  departing  ship,  and  the  door  closes.  Alex  and  his  mother  and  Christine  go  back  into  the  apartment,  which  is  awash  in  ribbons  and  colored  paper  and  scattered  chairs  and  plates  and  half-emptied  wine-  glasses  with  traces  of  lipstick  around  the  edges.  This  moment,  too,  has  duplicated  itself  year  after  year,  though  now  there  is  a  variation-the  cast  has  grown  to  three.  Alex  realizes  that  the  most  difficult  part  of  the  evening  is  at  hand.  It  is  a  foregone  conclusion  that  he's  going  home  with  Christine,  but  how  he  is  go-  ing  to  negotiate  the  transition  is  sud-  denly  a  mystery.  &quot;Oh  my!&quot;  says  his  mother,  exultant  with  relief.  &quot;That  was  one  of  the  best  ones.&quot;  Then  she  turns  to  Christine.  &quot;Thank  you  so  much  for  coming.&quot;  &quot;Why  are  you  thanking  me?  I  should  " b"112  thank  you.  It  was  a  really  nice  party.  I've  never  been  to  a  Hanukkah  party  before.  It  was  amazingly  friendly.&quot;  Once  again,  her  calm  assurance-the  first  thing  he  had  noticed  about  her-  strikes  Alex.  She  is  performing  a  social  function  with  this  sort  of  talk,  but  there  is  something  about  her,  an  openness,  that  takes  it  somewhere  else.  Her  cheeks  are  full  of  color,  and  her  eyes  seem  un-  usually  bright.  &quot;Shall  we  open  the  presents?&quot;  says  his  mother.  Alex  stands  still.  The  business  of  opening  presents  with  his  mother  is  so  personal  that  he  can't  imagine  this  third  party  taking  part.  The  two  women  look  at  him,  andhe  is  reminded  ofan  unpleasant  experience  he  had  not  long  agowith  his  incoherent  Aunt  Louise,  his  father's  sister,  who  lives  in  a  nurs-  ing  home  in  New  Jersey.  She  has  Alzheimer's.  During  the  visit,  he  had  waved  a  picture  of  Christine  in  front  of  her  face  and  said,  &quot;This  is  my  girlfriend.  My  girlfriend.  What  do  you  think?  Not  bad,  huh?&quot;  Aunt  Louise  rarely  said  anything,  so  Alex  was  in  the  habit  of  keeping  up  both  sides  of  theconversation  in  her  presence.  But  this  time  she  swerved  briefly  back  into  the  cantankerous  and  acerbic  woman  she  had  been  for  so  many  years,  and  her  face  took  on  an  alarmed  and  vaguely  contemptuous  expression.  &quot;Eve,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  Eve.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  said  Alex,  horrified.  &quot;It's  my-&quot;  but  his  aunt's  eyes  removed  them-  selves  again  and  he  was  left  staring  at  the  photograph,  struck  by  the  idea  that  he  had  managed  to  find  a  woman  who  resembled  his  mother  when  she  was  younger.  He  saw  it  quite  suddenly:  the  same  broad,  smooth  forehead,  the  pencil-thin  eyebrows,  the  elegant  nose.  But  most  of  all  the  mouth-that  half  smile  that  was  an  expression  neither  of  happiness  nor  sadness,  coldness  nor  affection,  but  of  a  private  and  elusive  pleasure.  Now,  staring  back  at  these  two  faces,  he  feels  unsureof  how  best  to  pre-  vent  the  three  of  them  opening  gifts  to-  gether.  Christine  would  tear  hers  open,  and  his  mother  would  unpeeleach  piece  of  tape,  to  preserve  the  wrapping,  and  he  would  sit  in  the  middle  feeling  embarrassed.  &quot;I'll  do  the  dishes,&quot;  he  suddenly  offers.  &quot;There  are  all  these  dishes  and  I  can't  leave  you  with  them.  It's  not  fair.  Let's  just  clean  up  first.&quot;  For  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  is  glad  that  his  mother  doesn't  own  a  dishwasher.  In  moments,  he  is  in  his  official  dish,  washing  posture-his  forehead  pressed  to  the  cabinet  above  the  sink  while  his  hands  and  arms  work-and  he  enters  a  dish-washing  trance.  Christine  and  his  mother  move  about  the  apartment,  gathering  dishes  and  glasses  and  silver  and  bringing  them  to  him.  Nearly  an  hour  haspassed  beforethe  last  spoon  has  been  rinsed  and  dried.  Christine  and  his  mother  are  sittingat  the  kitchen  table,  talking,  their  faces  pleasant  and  relaxed.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Alex  says  finally.  &quot;I  guess  that's  that.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  sayshis  mother.  The  air  is  filled  with  departure.  She  smiles  brightly,  but  Alex  feels  there's  something  slightly  forced  about  it.  The  gifts  still  lie  unopened.  &quot;I'll  get  our  coats,&quot;  he  says  and  goes  to  retrieve  them.  As  he  and  Christine  areleaving,  Alex  finds  that  the  living  room  looks  like  a  stage  setafter  the  play  is  over  and  the  ac-  tors  have  all  gone  home.  Chairs  stand  at  odd  angles  to  one  another,  and  remnants  of  the  party  are  scattered  about.  The  menorah,  which  had  presided  grandly  over  the  event,  now  sits  quietly,  its  eight  candles  burnt  down.  The  neat  pile  of  un-  opened  gifts  that  lies  at  its  base-his  gifts  for  his  mother,  hers  for  him,  and  those  brought  by  the  guests-seems  like  an  oversight.  The  idea  of  his  mother  left  alone  on  this  stage  is  suddenly  excruci-  ating  to  him,  and  his  departing  manner  is  almost  abrupt.  &quot;All  right,  that  was  great,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;T'll  call  you  tomorrow.  We'll  do  the  pre-  sents  soon.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  so  much,  Eve,&quot;  says  Christine,  and  the  sound  of  his  mother's  name  on  her  lips  surprises  him.  The  two  women  embrace  warmly,  pausing  in  each  other's  arms  almost  as  if  in  commisera-  tion.  He  is  entirely  outside  of  this  mo-  ment,  and  he  peers  at  them  curiously,  wondering  what  is  happening.  They  have  more  in  common  with  each  other  than  either  has  with  him.  Two  women  and  a  bystander.  Then  he  bends  to  kiss  his  mother's  warm  cheek.  Out  in  the  hall,  a  vague  dizziness  overtakes  him  as  the  dial  beside  the  el-  evator  slowly  turns  toward  the  number  of  their  floor.  The  door  opens.  He  and  Christine  step  in.  It  closes  behind  them,  his  mother's  face  momentarily  visible  through  the  small  rectangular  window  in  the  elevator  door.  &quot;Bye!&quot;  calls  Christine.  The  elevator  starts  down.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  comes  the  reply,  but  his  mother's  face  has  disappeared.  IT  is  a  cold,  clear  winter  night,  and  the  streets  are  hard,  windswept,  and  empty.  Alex  and  Christine  walk  hand  in  hand  toward  West  End  Avenue,  the  sound  of  their  shoes  echoing  against  the  pavement.  &quot;What  did  you  think?&quot;  Alex  says  af-  ter  a  minute.  &quot;It  was  nice,&quot;  Christine  says.  They  walk  in  silence  for  a  few  more  steps.  &quot;There  was  something  heartwarming  about  it.  And  sort  of  heartrending,  too,  the  way  all  those  people  seemed  so  friendly  and  kind,  and  your  mother  be-  ing  so  enthusiastic.  It's  almost  enough  to  make  you  optimistic  about  people.&quot;  &quot;Almost,&quot;  says  Alex.  She  says  nothingmore,  and  for  a  mo-  ment  he  hates  her.  They  wait  on  the  deserted  corner  un-  til  an  empty  taxi  screeches  to  a  stop  in  front  ofthem.  They  clamber  in  and  head  downtown  toward  Christine's  apartment.  It  is  an  old  taxi,  with  ancient  shocks,  and  windows  that  don't  quite  close.  The  smell  is  pleasant,  though:  old  leather  and  some  previous  passenger's  perfume.  Alex  and  Christine  huddle  against  each  other  in  the  back  seat.  &quot;Alex?&quot;  she  says  at  one  point.  &quot;Yeah?&quot;  he  replies,  but  she  doesn't  say  anything  else.  The  cold  wind  whistles  through  the  doors.  Every  block  or  so  they  hit  a  bump  and  the  cab  rises  off  the  ground  as  though  it  had  just  flown  over  the  crest  of  a  hill.  The  glow  of  each  passing  street  light  falls  across  Christine's  face  and  then  recedes.  Alex  reflects  on  the  impossibil-  ity  of  his  relationship  with  her-the  doom  and  despair  that  await  him,  and  the  heartbreak.  He  missesthe  familiar  warmth  and  security  of  the  apartment  he  has  just  left.  Yet  his  departure  was  inevitable-a  thrilling  turn  of  events.  He  holds  Christine  tight  as  they  go  over  a  bump.  Up  goes  the  taxi  in  a  smooth,  effortless  glide,  and  a  tiny  smile  comes  over  Alex's  face  as  they  hang  in  midair.  *  "