 b"FICTION  BAD  FORM  BY  AMY  BLOOM  FEEL  my  baby's  arms  around  my  I  neck.  Hidden  wrists,  flesh  the  color  and  feel  of  white  tea  roses,  the  ris-  ing  scent  of  warm  corn  bread.  I  wake  up  and  find  thepillow  twisted  beneath  my  chin,  a  few  strands  of  my  hair  caught  in  the  pillowcase  zipper.  [REDACTED]  hears  me  or  feels  me  beginning  to  ery  and  wards  it  off  as  best  he  can.  &quot;Gotta  piss,&quot;  he  says,  and  he  smooths  the  covers  down  as  if  to  soothe  his  side  of  the  bed.  I  rock  the  pillow  and  reach  fora  Prozac  and  the  glass  of  water  on  the  nightstand.  My  whole  house  is  deco-  rated  by  an  invalid:  boxes  of  tissues,  half-  drawn  curtains,  sweaty  nightgowns,  as-  pirin,  marjoram  shower  gel  (guaranteed  by  [REDACTED]'s  New  Age  secretary  to  &quot;lift  your  spirits&quot;),  fading  plants.  I  do  not  un-  derstand  why  death  inspires  people  to  give  greenery.  [REDACTED]  comes  back  to  bed,  and  I  am  kind  enough  to  pretend  that  I'm  asleep.  If  I  were  awake,  he  would  have  to  comfort  me.  The  circles  under  his  eyes  darken  and  crease  the  skin  down  to  his  cheekbones.  Why  should  either  of  us  have  to  endure  his  comforting  me?  He  puts  his  hand  on  my  hip,  as  if  to  balance  himself,  but  I  know  he's  checking.  Am  I  twitching,  am  I  sweating,  are  my  shoul-  ders  heaving?  He's  a  good  man;  he  will  avoid  me  only  once.  Having  got  off  the  hook  earlier,  he  is  compelled  to  be  attentive.  I  sound  like  I  hate  him,  which  I  don't.  I  do  fantasize  about  his  death,  how-  ever.  I  strangle  him  with  theumbilical  cord,  the  blue-pink  twist  they  took  off  Saul's  little  no-neck.  The  doctor,  my  own  obstetrician-a  perfectlypleasant,  competent  woman,  a  Democrat  who  sits  with  me  on  the  boards  of  two  good  causes-is  perforated  by  the  smallest,  sharpest  scalpels,  as  in  an  old-fashioned  knife-throwing  show,  until  she  is  pinned  to  the  wall  of  the  operating  room  in  pieces,  her  lips  still  moving,  apologizing,  but  not  so  profusely  that  I  might  think  she  was  at  fault  and  sue  her  for  malprac-  tice  or  wrongful  death  or  whatever  itis  hat  my  brother-in-law  told  us  we  could  sue  for.  My  wrongful  life,  my  dying  marriage,  how  about  the  house  plants  and  the  students  I  don't  give  a  damn  about?  For  the  nurses  and  the  interne  who  assisted  Mary  Lou,  I  use  dull  scal-  pels,  and  I  stick  them  with  horse-  size  epidural  needles  when  they  try  to  escape.  I  made  an  attempt  to  go  back  to  my  office  three  weeks  ago.  I  picked  up  my  mail  andwas  doing  fine,  ignoring  the  silences  and  the  sotto-voce  inquiries,  which  practically  screamed  &quot;Better-you-  than-me.&quot;  Martha,  our  department  sec-  retary-old,  frightened,  useless  since  we  all  got  computers-handed  me  my  mes-  sages  and  a  stack  of  departmental  memos.  Her  ancient  poodle  was  wheezing  on  his  little  bed  beneath  her  desk.  &quot;Your  shirt  .  .  .&quot;  she  said,  and  I  looked  down  at  the  wet  blue  circles  and  left.  Isat  in  the  ladies  room,  pressing  my  breasts,  kneading  my  shirt  and  my  bra  until  tiny  white  tears  dripped  onto  my  fingers.  I  left  my  mail  on  the  floor,  and  someone  sent  it  to  me  anonymously,  with  kind  intentions,  two  days  later.  Go  back  again,  braced  with  a  Percodan-Prozac  cocktail,  which  you  will  not  find  in  the  Physician's  Desk  Reference.  Information  about  an  M.L.A.  conference  I  seem  to  have  organized  in  Edinburgh  is  coming  through  on  the  department  fax.  The  man  faxing  me  is  very  excited,  and  his  words  leap  about  on  thecheap,  oily  paper.  He  is  expecting  a  draft  of  my  presentation  in  two  weeks  and  me  in  four.  I  don't  think  so.  I  tell  Martha  tofax  him  back  that  I  will  not  attend  and  that  I  will  not  send  the  notes  for  my  talk.  She  is  concerned.  I  treat  Martha  the  way  my  mother  taught  me  to  treat  our  domestic  servants.  I  am  gracious  and  reasonable  and  accommodating.  She  adores  me  (and  appreciates  her  annual  Westminster  dog  show  tickets),  and  the  faculty  Marxists  (former  Marxists-I  don't  know  what  they  do  with  them-  selves  now)  gnash  their  teeth  over  us.  4  Martha  hesitates.  It  cannot  be  good  for  me  professionally  to  cancel  at  this  late  date.  Perhaps  I  will  not  be  asked  tochair  a  panel  again  soon.  Perhaps  my  reputa-  tion  at  the  university  will  diminish  and  Martha's  office  statuswill  go  from  en-  dangered  to  extinct.  I  fax  the  message  myself:  &quot;Cannot  come.  Baby  dead.  May-  be  next  year.  Onora  O'Connor.&quot;  A  girl  is  waiting  for  me  in  the  hall.  I  don't  mind  girls  too  much,  and  I  can  even  feel  sorry  for  them,  since  I  know  what's  in  store  for  them  and  they  don't.  When  I  was  her  age,  I'd  look  at  wom-  en  like  me  with  just  that  same  dis-  gusted  disbelief.  Their  stomachs  bil-  lowed  out,  theirasses  dragged,  their  hair  hung  in  limp  strands  or  was  sprayed  up  into  alien  shapes.  Why  didthey  do  that  to  themselves?  They  must  all  have  been  ugly  girls  and  never  recovered.  But  I  was  not  an  ugly  girl,  I  put  this  young  thing  in  the  shade  when  I  was  her  age.  I  did  art  modelling  for  tuition  money-  the  servants  were  a  phase,  not  a  life  style-and  loved  it.  My  body  defied  gravity,  defined  lush  perfection.  Peach  juice  would  run  out  if  I  was  bitten.  I  was  fucking  perfect  for  three  years  of  my  life  and  not  too  shabby  until  the  recent  past.  I  signed  her  forms,  promised  her  she  could  be  in  my  Auden  seminar  come  fall,  and  escaped,  feeling  like  a  check  bouncer  in  a  mom-and-pop  grocery.  Sure,  here's  my  address,  watch  me  record  the  amount,  like  it  matters.  There's  nothing  in  the  bank.  I  am  no  more  going  to  teach  in  the  fall  than  play  third  base  for  the  Yankees.  I  leave  the  building,  passing  clusters  of  women.  I  hate  them  all,  I  don't  even  see  the  men.  When  I  hear  or  smell  babies  coming,  I  leave  the  room.  These  women,  all  these  women,  are  pregnant,  or  will  be,  or  have  been,  or  don't  want  tobe,  or  have  suffered  some  made-for-  TV  disaster  like  mine.  It  doesn't  mat-  ter;  whether  they  are  like  me  or  lucky,  I  hate  them,  and  I  seem  to  make  it  pretty  clear,  because  they  turn  just  a  little,  feet  unmoving  while  their  hips  " b"T2  shift,  and  I  cannot  join  them  without  barging  in.  FIND  a  woman  sitting  in  my  kitchen,  not  obviously  pregnant  but  she  might  be-she  could  let  it  drop  in  the  middle  of  our  conversation  or  else  make  a  huge  effort  and  not  say  anything  at  all,  so  [REDACTED]  can  struggle  with  telling  me  pri-  vately.  I  wonder  if  he's  sleeping  with  her,  but  I  can't  imagine  it.  He  looks  as  bad  as  I  do.  Every  time  he  shaves  he  nicks  another  spot;  his  whole  face  is  lightly  gouged,  as  if  he'd  been  rather  listlessly  assaulted.  There  are  four  deep-green  rowsof  wine  bottles  on  our  kitchen  counter.  [REDACTED]  has  been  steadily  working  through  cases  of  [REDACTED]  merlot  and  zinfandel.  &quot;I'm  Susan?  From  the  Neonate  Program  at  the  hospital?  Memorial  Unit  3?&quot;  She  goes  on  talking,  butI'm  stuck.  Doesn't  she  know  who  she  is?  Is  she  asking  me?  Does  she  think  I've  forgotten  the  floor  name?  Does  she  think  I  remember  her?  [REDACTED]  is  nodding,  with  tearsin  his  eyes.  She  must  be  talking  about  Saul.  &quot;\xc2\xa9...  that  you  might  be  interested  b  &quot;What?&quot;  She  sighs,  just  a  little  bit-I  should  appreciate  how  patient  and  understand-  ing  she's  being.  Do  I  look  like  I  give  a  fuck?  You,do  you  think  I  can  even  smell  you  without  wanting  to  puke?  I  may  start  puking  if  she  doesn't  leave  soon.  Hormones,  medication,  lots  of  obvious  explanations  for  my  sudden  vomiting.  I  measure  the  distance  to  the  kitchen  sink  and  figure  whether  I  could  easily  hit  her  shoes  as  well.  She's  still  talking,  and  [REDACTED]  has  put  his  hand  on  my  shoulder.  Saul  is  definitely  the  subject.  &quot;  ...  your  loss.  I  worked  with  one  woman  who  went  through  this  experi-  ence,  and  I  thinkshe  found  it  very  help-  ful.  So  I  mentioned  it  to  your  husband.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  'The  Pediatric  Volunteer  Program.  After  orientation,  you  spend  timewith  children  on  the  unit  until  they  go  home.&quot;  &quot;Or  die.&quot;  Susan  looks  at  [REDACTED],  who  is  no  longer  resting  his  hand  on  my  shoulder  in  adisplay  of  emotional  support.  He  cradles  his  face  in  his  left  hand,  rolling  a  wet  cork  across  the  table  with  his  right  index  finger.  &quot;Oh,  no,  you  don't  spend  timewith  terminally  ill  children.  Our  volunteers  visit  with  the  children  recovering  from  surgery,  getting  fitted  for  prostheses,  in  things  like  that.  Not  terminal  cases.&quot;  I  can  see  her  thoughts  through  a  suddenly  opened  window  in  her  fore-  head.  Jesus,  she's  thinking,  this  woman  is  clearly  not  suitable  for  any  kind  of  program,  how  do  I  leave  without  up-  setting  her?  The  transparent  patch  in  Susan's  forehead  is  a  product  of  sleep  deprivation,  as  Mary  Lou  has  already  ex-  plained  to  [REDACTED]  and  me.  The  moments  when  Saul,  at  various  ages,  comes  to  me  and  weeps  in  my  arms,  the  tendency  to  see  people's  words  as  they  say  them  and  sometimes  when  they  don't,  the  sensation  that  objects  are  only  two-  dimensional-these  are  typical  symp-  toms  of  sleep  deprivation.  Not  to  worry.  &quot;I'll  think  about  it.  Why  don't  you  leave  your  card.  Thanks  for  coming.  Goodbye.&quot;  I  think  this  comes  out  pretty  well,  but  I  can  see  from  her  face  that  I  have  left  out  something  key,  likeinflection.  Too  bad.  If  she  wants  affect,  she  can  talk  to  [REDACTED].  I  go  upstairs  and  lie  down  with  my  shoes  on  (but  my  soles  don't  touch  the  bedspread-I'm  not  that  far  gone)  until  I  hear  the  front  door  close.  Another  agonizing  evening  with  the  O'Connor-Schwartzes  begins.  [REDACTED]  is  solicitous,  then  hurt,  then  apologetic,  then  furious,  then  guilty,  then  back  to  the  beginning,  then  exhausted.  He  usu-  ally  falls  asleep  between  guilt  and  the  third  bottle  of  wine.  I  cannot  kill  myself-we  do  not  com-  mit  that  sin;  itis  sch  bad  form-but  I  find  myself  teetering  at  the  stair  land-  ings,  walking  quickly  on  the  narrow,  slick  marble  steps  of  the  library,  seeing  how  long  I  can  keep  my  hands  off  the  steering  wheel.  Come  and  get  me.  HIS  is  not  a  hospital  ward,  itis  the  Hieronymus  Bosch  Pediatric  Pur-  gatory.  I  have  been  told  to  wait  with  the  other  child  lovers  shuffling  along  in  pas-  tel  sweatsuits  and  massive  sneakers  or  two-hundred-dollar  cardigans  thrown  over  jeans  and  posy-covered  turtlenecks.  Apparently,  only  women  are  in  need  of  this  kind  of  entertainment.  As  we  go  through  the  halls  of  gasping  infants,  and  toddlers  with  metal  shunts  sticking  out  of  their  heads,  and  older  children  play-  ing  tag  with  their  .V.s,  I  notice  that  my  little  group  is  more  varied  than  I  thought.  Two  of  the  six  look  late-  middle-aged,  and  their  expressions  are  of  pleasant  concern  and  universal  affec-  tion.  T'wo  others  are  quite  young,  very  Junior  League,  and  if  they  have  lost  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JULY  26,  1993  babies  they've  been  spending  quite  a  bit  of  time  in  the  gym  ever  since.  The  woman  right  next  to  me  is  black,  mean-  ing  the  color  of  strong  coffee,  and  herex-  pression,  at  least,  is  familiar  to  me.  She  looks  enraged  and  terrified,  and  when  she  sees  a  nurse  her  lips  curl  up  and  back,  revealing  wonderfully  pointed  inci-  sors.  When  we  are  seated  for  orienta-  tion,  in  a  windowless  room  with  firmly  cushioned  chairs  and  love  seats,  I  perch  on  the  edgeof  a  table,  and  the  little  nurse  leading  the  group  knows  enough  not  to  encourage  me  to  join  the  circle.  She  asks  what  each  of  us  hopes  to  get  out  of  this  program,  and  the  others  say  whatever  they  say,  and  the  black  woman  and  I  snarl  and  look  away.  Even  I,  with  my  impaired  judgment,  cannot  be-  lieve  that  they're  going  to  let  people  like  us  have  contact  with  helpless  chil-  dren.  Then  she  asks  if  we  have  prefer-  ences  about  the  kids  we  spend  time  with.  The  otherssay  prettily  that  it  really  doesn'tmatter.  The  she-wolf  says,  &quot;Not  a  black  child,&quot;  and  I  say  nothing  at  all.  I  ask  for  a  little  time  to  get  accli-  mated,  and  the  nurse  lets  me  trespass  quietly,  unsupervised.  All  the  children  I  see  are  engaged.  They  are  being  fed  and  held,  or  being  sung  to  as  their  dressings  are  changed.  They  cry  out  as  their  scarlet  stumpy  parts  are  washed  and  rewrapped,  but  not  for  too  long.  When  the  nurses  and  aides  see  me  watching,  they  scowl  or  smile  quickly;  visitors  are  not  much  help.  Some  of  the  rooms  are  overflowing  with  Mylar  balloons,  photo-filled  bulletin  boards,par-  ents,  toys,  comic  books.  I  am  looking  for  a  room  with  nothing  but  a  kid  and  a  cot.  He  is  there,  at  the  end  of  the  hall.  He  comes  out  of  his  room  to  greet  me  in  a  state-of-the-art  wheelchair,  its  front  built  up  like  a  combination  keyboard  and  portable  desk.  He  holds  a  silver  stick  in  his  mouth  and  presses  the  keys  on  the  console  with  it.  We  watch  each  other.  He  is  ugly,  not  at  all  what  Saul  would  have  been.  Sallow,  greasy  little  rat  face,  buzz-cut  black  hair,  stick-out  ears.  As  he  bends  over  the  console,  I  see  the  back  of  his  thin,  hairy  neck.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  he  says,  letting  go  of  the  stick.  I  thought  he  couldn't  be  more  than  three,  but  no  toddler  could  speak  like  that-as  if  he'd  been  living  on  the  streets  for  fifteen  years  and  this  hospital  was  just  one  more  dead-end  job.  &quot;Hey,  yourself.&quot;  I'm  blushing.  &quot;Could  you  move?&quot;  I  flatten  myself  against  the  wall,  and  " b"BAD  FORM  he  rolls  past,stick  pressed  hard  to  the  flat  orange  disk  in  a  row  of  concave  blue  buttons.  The  wheelchair  has  tires  fit  for  a  pickup  truck,  and  the  sides  go  up  to  his  neck  like  a  black  box.  I  look  down  as  the  whole  thing  lumbers  past.  Under  his  little  T-shirt  he  has  no  arms.  &quot;Bye,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Yeah.&quot;  I  cannot  befriend  the  nurse  at  the  front  desk,  but  I  do  persuade  her  to  tell  me  about  him.  Jorge.  His  story  is  horror  upon  unend-  ing  horror-proof,  not  that  I  needed  it,  that  the  thought  of  a  God  is  even  more  frightening  than  a  world  without  one.  No-  body  is  coming  to  take  him  home.  He  is  not  considered  lov-  able,  and  the  occasional  saints-  the  foster  parents  who  take  in  the  AIDS  babies  and  the  cancer-  ridden  children-don't  want  him.  What  does  he  like,  I  ask  the  nurse.  Nothing,  she  says.  Whatever  he  likes,  he's  been  keeping  it  to  himself.  I  wait  by  his  room.  He  will  not  show  his  pleasure,  but  he  will  be  reluctantly,  helplessly  pleased.  Who  has  ever  come  back  for  a  second,  nonclinical  look?  &quot;Gum?&quot;  &quot;What  kind?&quot;  &quot;Bubble  Yum.  Mint  or  grape.&quot;  It  is  what  I  chew.  &quot;Grape.&quot;  He  opens  his  mouth,  and  I  unwrap  the  gum  and  place  it  on  his  white-coated  tongue.  He  chews  away,  and  then  purses  his  lips  around  his  joystick  and  moves  off.  At  the  end  of  the  hall,  he  sits  up  and  looks  over  his  shoulder  at  me.  He  tongues  the  stick  aside,  keeping  the  blue  gum  in:  I  wave.  &quot;See  you  tomorrow,  Jorge.&quot;  Al:  home,  I  prepare  for  diplomacy  and  war.  I  shower,  even  using  the  marjoram  gel.  My  spirits  are  lifted.  I  make  Julia  Child  brisket  and  arrange  a  pretty  salad.  I  open  a  bottle  of  Stag's  Leap  and  use  the  big-bowled  wine-  glasses,  the  ones  I  have  to  wash  by  hand.  1  tell  [REDACTED]  about  him,  lying.  I  make  him  sound  sweet,  responsive,  appreciative.  I  don't  tell  the  story  the  nurse  told  me:  how  he  spat  in  the  face  ofan  aide,  saving  up  a  mouthful  of  penicillin  to  do  so.  I  don't  mention  his  all-over  ugliness,  the  gooey      squint  in  his  right  eye,  the  slight  fecal  odor  surrounding  him.  I  might  as  well  have  told  [REDACTED]  the  truth.  No,  he  says,  we  cannot  take  a  disabled  childright  now.  We?  I  have  to  laugh.  That  old  joke:  What  do  you  mean  &quot;we,&quot;  white  man?  I  pick  over  the  words  in  my  mind,  to  get  him  to  say  yes,  and  then  I  don't  care.  &quot;I'm  bringing  him  home  if  they  let  me.  He  doesn't  have  to  be  in  the  hospi-  tal,  but  his  family  can't  care  for  him,  and  his  needs  are  too  much  for  a  residential  place.&quot;  Of  course  they'lllet  me.  It  must  cost  afortune  to  keep  him.  And  he's  so  ugly.  &quot;If  you  bring  him  home,  I  don't  know.  .  .  I  don't  think  I  can  stay.  Please  don't  do  this  to  us.&quot;  A  aide  is  bringing  Jorge  off  the  eleva-  tor,  and  they  both  stare  at  me  in  sur-  prise.  I  open  my  briefcase  slowly,  mak-  ing  a  show  of  the  tight  buckles,  as  Jorge  approaches.  I  can  hear  the  warm,  sticky  roll  of  the  tires  on  the  linoleum  floor.  We'll  have  to  pull  up  the  guest-room  carpeting.  &quot;Gum?&quot;  he  says.  I  unwrap  the  gum  and  put  it  in  his  mouth,  telling  him  my  name  so  that  the  grape  sugar  on  his  tongue  will  become  his  thought  of  me.  He  nods  and  chews.  I  sneak  my  hand  to  the  vinyl  headrest,  almost  skin  tempera-  ture,  and  smoothed  by  his  neck  and  hair.  &quot;Let's  go  find  the  unit-chief  doctor,&quot;  I  say,  and  Jorge  follows,  the  heavy  move-  ment  of  the  chair  shaking  the  floor  be-  neath  us.  I  GET  into  bed  with  the  phone  book  and  my  list:  medical  equipment,  pharmacy  (delivery  service?),  furniture,  foreign-language  tapes  (in  case  his  Span-  ish  is  better  than  his  English),  carpenter  (ramp).  I  underline  &quot;carpenter&quot;  twice  and  call  three  names,  leaving  messages  on  their  machines.  It  can't  take  more  than  a  week  to  put  a  ramp  where  the  kitchen  steps  are  now.  In  my  mind,  I  move  the  living-room  furniture  around  and  get  rid  of  the  glass  coffee  table.  When  [REDACTED]  falls  asleep,  dried  red  wine  sitting  in  the  corners  of  his  mouth,  I  get  up  and  move  the  actual  pieces,  shoving  the  coffee  table  into  [REDACTED]'s  study  for  now.  My  body  hums.  I  hang  up  my  clothes,  wipe  [REDACTED]'s  damp  mouth  with  my  fingers,  and  pull  the  blanket  up  around  him.  I  fall  asleep  easily,  dreaming  of  Jorge,  my  little  egg,  rolling  around  on  our  queen-size  bed,  the  silk  spread  smooth  beneath  his  skin.  \xc2\xa2  "