"I  do  this  number  where  I  leave  all  the  faucets  running  because  my  house,  and  most  houses  out  here  on  the  [REDACTED],  aren't  &quot;real&quot;-they  don't  have  windows  that  go  up  and  down,  or  basements  (which  protect  the  pipes  in  a  way  that  a  crawlspace  can't),  or  side-  walks  out  in  the  front  with  a  nice  pair  of  towering  oak  trees  or  a  couple  of  elms,  which  a  real  house  will  have,  one  of  those  good  old  [REDACTED]  houses.  Out  here  the  windows  go  sideto  side.  You  get  no  basement.  No  sidewalk  and  no  real  trees,  just  evergreens,  and  when  it  gets  cold  and  snows  nobody  knows  what  to  do.  An  inch  of  snow  and  they  cancel  school  and  the  community  is  paralyzed.  &quot;Help  me,  I'm  helpless!&quot;  Well,  it's  cold  for  a  change  and  I  guess  that's  not  so  bad,  be-  cause  all  the  fleas  and  mosquitoes  will  freeze,  and  also  because  any  change  is  something,  and  maybe  it  will  help  snap  me  out  of  this  bleak  post-Africa  depres-  sion-oh,  baby,  I'm  so  depressed-but  I  wake  up  at  three  in  the  morning  and  think,  Oh,  no,  a  pipe  is  gonna  bust,  so  I  run  the  water  and  let  the  faucets  drip  and  I  go  outside  and  turn  on  the  outdoor  fau-  cets,  which  are  the  most  vulnerable.  Sure  enough,  they  were  caking  up,  and  I  got  to  them  justin  the  nick  of  time,  which  was  good,  since  in  my  condition  there  was  no  way  I  could  possibly  cope  with  a  broken  water  pipe.  I  just  got  back  from  Africa,  where  I  was  playing  doctor  to  the  natives,  got  hammered  with  a  nasty  case  of  malaria,  and  lost  thirty  pounds,  but  it  was  a  manic  episode  I  had  that  caused  Global  Aid  to  send  me  home.  It  was  my  worst  attack  to  date,  and  on  lithium  I  get  such  a  bad  case  of  psoriasis  that  I  look  like  alligator  man.  You  can  take  Tegretol  for  mania  but  it  once  wiped  out  my  white  count  and  almost  killed  me,  so  what  I  like  to  do  when  I  get  all  revved  up  is  skin-pop  some  morphine,  which  I  had  with  me  by  the  gallon  over  there  and  which  will  keep  you  calm-and,  unlike  booze,  it's  something  I  can  keep  under  control.  Although  I  must  confess  I  lost  my  medical  license  in  the  [REDACTED]  for  sub-  stance  abuse  and  ended  up  with  Global  SON  of  a  bitch,  there's  acold  snap  and  FICTION  COLD  SNAP  BY  THOM  JONES  Aid  when  the  dust  settled  over  that  one.  God's  will,  really.  Fate.  Karma.  What-  ever.  Anyhow,  hypomania  is  a  good  thing  in  Africa,  a  real  motivator,  and  you  can  do  anything  you  want  over  there  as  long  as  you  keep  your  feet  on  the  ground  and  don't  parade  naked  on  the  Presi-  dent's  lawn  in  4b656e7961  and  get  expelled  (which  I  did  and  which  will  get  you  ex-  pelled;  O.K.,  I  lied,  you  can't  do  eny-  thing-so  sue  me).  On  lithium,  while  you  don't  crash  so  bad,  you  never  get  high,  either,  and  all  you  can  do  is  sit  around  sucking  on  Primus-beer  bottles,  bitching  about  how  hot  itis  when  there's  so  much  work  to  do.  While  I'm  outside  checking  my  fau-  cets,  I  look  my  Oldsmobile  over  and  wonder  was  it  last  year  I  changed  the  anti-  freeze?  Back  in  bed,  it  strikes  me  that  it's  been  three  years,  so  I  go  out  and  run  the  engine  and  sit  in  the  car  with  my  teeth  chattering-it's  thirteen  below,  geez!  And  pretty  soon  the  warm  air  is  de-  frosting  the  car  and  I  drive  over  to  the  hardware  section  at  Safeway  and  get  one  of  those  antifreeze  testers  with  the  little  balls  in  it.  At  four  in  the  morning  I'm  sit-  ting  in  my  kitchen  trying  to  get  it  out  of  the  plastic  jacket,  and  it  comes  out  in  two  parts,  with  the  bulb  upside  down.  No  doubt  some  know-nothing  Central  556e6974656420537461746573n  put  it  in  upside  down  for  twenty  cents  an  hour  in  some  slave  fac-  tory.  I  know  he's  got  problems-fact  is,  I've  been  there  and  could  elucidate  his  problems-but  how  about  me  and  my  damn  antifreeze?  I  mean,  too  bad  about  you,  buddy,  how  about  me?  And  I'm  trying  to  jury-rig  it  when  I  realize  there  is  a  high  potential  for  breaking  the  glass  and  cutting  my  thumb,  and  just  as  that  voice  that  is  me,  that  is  always  talking  to  me,  my  ego,  I  guess,  tells  me,  &quot;Be  care-  ful,  Richard,  so  you  don't  cut  your  thumb&quot;-at  that  instant,  I  slice  my  thumb  down  to  the  bone.  So  the  next  thing  you  know  I'm  driving  to  the  hospi-  tal  with  a  towel  on  my  thumb  thinking,  A  minute  ago  everything  was  just  fine,  and  now  I'm  driving  myself  to  the  emer-  gency  room!  Some  other  guy  comes  in  with  this  83  awful  burn  because  a  pressure  cooker  exploded  in  his  face,  and  he's  got  this  receding  hairline,  and  you  can  see  the  way  the  skin  is  peeled  back-poached-  looking.  The  guy's  going  to  need  a  hairpiece  for  sure.  A  doctor  comes  out  eating  a  sandwich,  and  I  hear  him  tell  the  nurse  to  set  up  an  I.  V.  line  and  start  run-  ning  some  Dilaudid  for  the  guy,  which  he  deserves,  considering.  I  would  like  some  for  my  thumb,  but  all  I  get  is  Novocain,  and  my  doctor  says,  &quot;You  aren't  going  to  get  woozy  on  me,  are  you?&quot;  I  tell  him  no,  I'm  not  like  that,  but  I  have  another  problem,  and  he  says,  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  and  I  tell  him  I  can't  jack  off  left-handed.  Everybody  laughs,  be-  cause  it's  the  graveyard  shift,  when  that  kind  of  joke  is  appropriate-even  in  mixed  company.  Plus,  it's  true.  After  he  stitches  me  up,  I'm  in  no  pain,  although  I  say,  &quot;I'll  bet  this  is  going  to  hurt  tomorrow,&quot;  and  he  says  no,  he'll  give  me  some  pain  medication,  and  I'm  thinking,  What  a  great  doctor.  He's  giv-  ing  me  pain  medication.  And  while  he's  in  a  giving  mood  I  hit  him  up  for  some  prostate  antibiotics  because  my  left  tes-  ticle  feels  very  heavy.  &quot;Your  left  testicle  feels  heawy?&quot;  he  says  skeptically.  Yeah,  every  guy  gets  it,  shit;  I  tell  him  my  left  nut  feels  like  an  anvil.I  mean,  I  want  to  cradle  it  in  my  hand  when  I'm  out  and  about,  or  rest  it  on  a  little  silk  pillow  when  I'm  stationary.  It  doesn't  re-  ally  hurt,  but  I'm  very  much  conscious  of  having  a  left  testicle,  whereas  I  have  teeth  and  a  belly  button  and  a  right  testicle  and  I  don't  even  know.  I  tell  him  I  don't  want  a  finger  wave,  because  I've  been  through  this  a  thousand  times.  My  prostate  is  backing  up  into  the  seminal  vesicles,  and  if  you  don't  jerk  off  it  builds  up  and  gets  worse,  and  the  doctor  agrees-that  does  happen,  and  he  doesn't  really  want  to  give  me  a  finger  wave,  especially  when  I  tell  him  that  a  urologist  checked  it  out  a  couple  of  months  back.  He  puts  on  a  plastic  glove  and  feels  my  testicle,  pro-  nounces  it  swollen,  and  writes  a  script  for  antibiotics,  after  which  he  tells  me  to  quit  drinking  coffee.I  was  going  to  tell  " b"84  him  that  I  don't  jerk  off  because  I'm  a  sex  fiend;  I  have  low  sex  drive,  and  it's  actually  not  that  much  fun.  I  just  do  it  to  keep  the  prostate  empty.  Or  should  I  tell  him  I'm  a  doctor  myself,  albeit  defrocked,  that  I  just  got  back  from  Africa  and  my  nut  could  be  infected  with  elephantiasis?  Highly  unlikely,  but  you  never  know.  But  he  won't  know  diddle  about  tropical  medicine-that's  my  department,  and  I  decide  I  will  just  shut  my  mouth,  which  is  a  first  for  me.  The  duty  nurse  is  pretty  good-looking,  and  she  contradicts  the  doctor's  orders  gives  me  a  cup  of  coffee  anyhow,  plus  a  roll,  and  we're  sitting  there  quietly,  lis-  tening  to  theother  doctor  and  anurse  fixing  the  guy  with  the  burned  forehead.  A  little  human  interaction  is  taking  place  and  my  depression  is  gone  as  I  begin  to  feel  sorry  for  the  guy  with  the  burn,  who  is  explaining  that  he  was  up  late  with  insomnia  cooking  sweet  potatoes  when  the  pressure  cooker  blew.  He  was  going  to  candy  them  with  brown  sugar  and  eat  them  at  six  in  the  morning  and  he's  laughing,  too,  because  of  the  Dilaudid  drip.  After  Linda  Ronstadt  sings  &quot;Just  One  Look&quot;  on  the  radio,  the  announcer  comes  on  and  says  that  we've  set  a  record  for  cold-it's  thirteen  and  a  half  below  at  the  airport-and  I  notice  that  the  announcer  is  happy,  too;  there's  a  kind  of  solidarity  that  occurs  when  suffering  is  inflicted  on  the  community  by  nature.  My  own  thing  is  the  Vincent  van  Gogh  effect.  I  read  where  he  &quot;felt  like  a  million&quot;  after  he  cutoff  his  ear.  It  only  lasted  for  a  couple  of  days.  They  always  show  you  the  series  of  four  cats  that  he  ft,  C  painted  at  different  times  in  his  life  as  his  mental  condition  went  progressively  downhill.  Cat  One  is  a  realistic-looking  cat,  but  as  life  goes  on  and  his  madness  gets  worse  he  paints  Cat  Four  and  it  looks  as  though  he's  been  doing  some  kind  of  bad  LSD,  which  is  how  the  world  had  been  looking  to  me  until  I  cut  my  thumb.  It  gave  me  a  three-day  respite  from  the  blues,  and  clarity  came  into  my  life,  and  I  have  to  remind  myself  by  writ-  ing  this  down  that  all  the  bad  stuff  does  pass  if  you  can  wait  it  out.  You  forget  when  you're  in  the  middle  of  it,  so  during  that  three-day  break  I  slapped  this  note  on  the  refrigerator  door:  &quot;Richard,  you  are  a  good  and  loving  person,  and  all  the  bad  stuff  does  pass,  so  remember  that  the  next  time  you  get  down  and  think  that  you've  always  been  down  and  always  will  be  down,  since  that's  paranoia  and  it  gets  you  nowhere.  You're  just  in  one  ofyour  Fyodor  Dostoyevski  moods-do  yourself  a  favor  and  forget  it!&quot;  I  FELT  so  good  I  actually  had  the  nerve  to  go  out  andbuy  a  new  set  of  clothes  and  see  a  movie,  and  then,  on  the  last  day  before  the  depression  came  back,  I  drove  out  to  Western  State  and  checked  my  baby  sister,  Susan,  out  for  a  day  trip.  Susan  was  always  a  lot  worse  than  me;  she  heard  voices  and  pulled  I  don't  know  how  many  suicide  attempts  until  she  took  my  squirrel  pistol  and  put  a  .22  long-rifle  slug  through  the  temple-not  really  the  temple,  because  at  the  last  minute  you  always  flinch,  but  forward  of  the  temple,  and  it  was  the  most  perfect  lobotomy.  I  remember  hearing  the  gun  pop  and  how  she  came  into  my  room  (I  was  home  from  college 3  for  the  summer)  and  said,  &quot;Richard,  I  just  shot  myself,  how  come  I'm  not  dead?&quot;  Her  voice  was  calm  instead  of  the  usual  fingernails-on-the-chalkboard  voice,  the  when-she-was-crazy  (which  was  almost  always)  voice,  and  I  realized  later  that  she  was  instantly  cured,  the  very  moment  the  bullet  zipped  through  her  brain.  Everyone  said  it  was  such  a  shame  because  she  was  so  beautiful,  but  whatgood  are  looks  if  you  are  in  hell?  And  she  let  her  looks  go  at  the  hospital  because  she  really  didn't  have  a  care  in  the  world,  but  she  was  still  probably  the  most  beautiful  patient  at  Western  State.  I  had  a  fresh  occasion  to  worry  about  her  on  this  trip  when  I  saw  an  attendant  rough-handling  an  old  man  to  stop  him  from  whining,  which  it  did.  She'd  go  along  with  anything,  and  she  had  no  ad-  vocate  except  me.  And  then  I  almost  re-  gretted  going  out  there,  in  spite  of  my  do-good  mood,  because  Susan  wanted  to  go  to  the  Point  Defiance  Zoo  to  see  Cindy,  the  elephant  that  was  on  the  news  after  they  transferred  the  attendant  who  took  care  of  her,  for  defying  orders  and  actually  going  into  the  elephant  pen  on  the  sly  to  be  her  friend.  There  are  three  hundred  elephants  in  [REDACTED]  556e6974656420537461746573n  zoos,  and  although  Cindy  is  an  Asian  elephant  and  a  female  and  small,  she  is  still  considered  the  most  dangerous  elephant  in  [REDACTED].  Last  year  alone,  three  people  were  killed  by  el-  ephants  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  and  this  is  what  Susan  had  seen  and  heard  on  the  color  television  in  the  ward  dayroom,  and  she's  like  a  child-she  wants  to  go  out  and  see  an  elephant  when  it's  ten  be-  low  zero.  They  originally  had  Cindy  clamped  up  in  a  pen  tighter  than  the  one  they've  got  John  Gotti  in  down  in  Marion,  [REDACTED],  and  I  don't  remember  that  the  catalogue  of  Cindy's  crimes  in-  cluded  human  murder.  She  was  just  a  general  troublemaker,  and  they  were  beating  her  with  a  two-by-four  when  some  animal  activist  reported  it  and  there  was  a  big  scandal  that  ended  with  Cindy  getting  shipped  down  to  the  San  Diego  Zoo,  the  best  zoo  in  the  world;  I  think  there  was  some  kindof  escape  (don't  quote  me  on  that)  where  Cindy  was  running  around  on  a  golf  course  in  between  moves,  and  then  a  capture  in-  volving  tranquillizer  darts,  and  when  they  couldn't  control  Cindy  in  San  Di-  ego  they  shipped  her  back  up  here  to  Tacoma  and  put  her  in  maximum-secu-  rity  confinement.  It  was  pretty  awful.  I  " b"COLD  SNAP  told  Susan  that  over  in  496e646961  Cindy  would  have  a  job  hauling  logs  or  some-  thing,  and  there  would  be  an  elephant  boy  to  scrub  her  down  at  night  with  a  big  brush  while  she  lay  in  the  river,  and  the  elephant  boy  would  be  with  her  at  all  times,  her  constant  companion.  Actually,  the  elephant  would  be  more  important  than  theboy,  I  told  her,  and  that's  how  you  should  handle  an  elephant  in  [REDACTED]-import  an  experienced  el-  ephant  boy  for  each  one,  give  the  kids  a  green  card,  pay  them  a  lot  of  overtime,  and  have  them  stay  with  the  elephants  around  the  clock.  You  know,  quality  time.  How  could  you  blame  Cindy  for  all  the  shit  she  pulled?  And  in  the  middle  of  this,  Susan  has  a  tear  floating  off  her  cheek  and  I  don't  know  if  it's  a  tear  caused  by  the  cold  or  if  she  was  touched  by  Cindy's  plight.  The  reason  they  sent  my  sister  to  the  nuthouse  was  that  you  could  light  a  fire  on  the  floor  in  front  of  her  and  she  would  just  sit  there  and  watch  it  burn.  When  our  parents  died,  I  took  her  to  my  place  in  [REDACTED]  state  and  hired  helpers  to  look  after  her,  but  they  would  always  quit-quit  while  I  was  over  in  the  Third  World,  where  it's  impossible  to  do  anything.  It  was  like,  Meanwhile,  back  in  the  jungle/!Meanwhile,  back  in  the  [REDACTED]  .  ..  Apart  from  her  lack  of  affect,  Susan  was  always  logical  and  made  perfect  sense.  Shewas  kind  of  like  a  Mr.  Spock  who  just  didn't  give  a  shit  anymore  except  when  it  came  to  childish  fun  and  games.  All  bundled  up,  with  a  scarf  over  her  ears,  in  her  innocence  she  looked  like  Eva  Marie  Saint  in  &quot;On  the  Waterfront.&quot;  We  drove  over  to  Nordstrom's  in  the  University  District  and  I  bought  Suz  some  new  threads  and  then  took  her  to  a  hair  salon  where  she  got  this  chic  haircut,  and  she  was  looking  so  good  that  I  al-  most  regretted  it,  'cause  if  those  wacked-  out  freaks  at  the  hospital  weren't  hitting  on  her  before  they  would  be  now.  It  was  starting  to  get  dark  and  time  to  head  back  when  Susan  spots  the  Space  Needle  from  I-5-she's  never  been  there,  so  I  took  her  to  the  top  and  she  wandered  outside  to  the  observation  deck,  where  the  wind  was  a  walking  razor  blade  at  five  hundred  and  eighteen  feet,  but  Su-  san  is  grooving  on  the  lights  of  [REDACTED]  and  with  her  homemade  lobotomy  doesn't  experience  pain  in  quite  the  way  a  normal  person  does,  and  I  want  her  to  have  a  little  fun,  but  I'm  freezing  out  there,  especially  my  thumb,  which  ached.  I  didn't  want  to  pop  back  inside  in  the  sheltered  part  and  leave  her  out  there,  though,  because  she  might  want  to  pitch  herself  over  the  side.I  mean,  they've  got  safety  nets,  but  what  if  she's  still  got  some  vestige  of  a  death  wish?  We  had  dinner  in  the  revolving  dining  room,  and  people  were  looking  at  us  funny  because  of  Susan's  eating  habits,  which  deterio-  rate  when  you  live  ina  nuthouse,  but  we  got  through  that  and  went  back  to  my  place  to  watch  TV,  and  7  after  that  I  was  glad  to  go  to  sleep-but  I  couldn't  sleep  be-  \\  cause  of  my  thumb.  I  was  thinking  I  still  hadn't  cashed  in  the  script  for  the  pain  pills  when  Susan  comes  into  my  bedroom  naked  and  sits  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed.  &quot;Ever  since  I've  been  shot,  I  feel  like  those  animals  in  the  zoo.  I  want  to  set  them  free,&quot;  she  says,  in  a  remarkable  display  of  insight,  since  that  scar  in  her  frontal  lobes  has  got  more  steel  bars  than  all  the  prisons  of  the  world,  and,  as  a  rule,  folks  with  fron-  tal-lobe  damage  don't  have  much  in-  sight.  I  get  her  to  put  on  her  pajamas,  and  I  remember  what  it  used  to  be  like  when  she  stayed  at  home-you  always  had  to  have  someone  watching  her-and  I  wished  I  had  gotten  her  back  to  the  hospital  that  very  night,  because  she  was  up  prowling,  and  suddenly  all  my  good  feelings  of  the  past  few  days  were  gone.  I  felt  crappy,  but  I  had  to  stay  vigilant  while  my  baby  sister  was  tripping  around  the  house  with  this  bullet-induced,  jocu-  lar  euphoria.  At  one  point  she  went  outside  bare-  foot.  Later  I  found  her  eating  a  cube  of  butter.  Then  she  took  out  all  the  canned  foods  in  my  larder  and  stacked  them  up-Progresso  black  beans  (Geaucoup),  beef-barley  soup,  and  canned  carrot  juice-playing  supermarket.  I  tell  her,  &quot;Mrs.  Ma'am,  I'll  take  one  of  those,  and  one  of  those,  and  have  you  got  any  peachy  pie?&quot;  She  says,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Richard,  we  haven't  got  any  peachy  pie.&quot;  &quot;But,  baby,  I  would  sure  like  a  nice  big  piece  of  peachy  pie,  heated  up,  and  some  vanilla  ice  cream  with  some  rum  sauce  and  maybe  something  along  the  lines  of  a  maraschino  cherry  to  put  on  the  top  for  a  little  garnish.  Nutmeg  would  do.  Or  are  you  telling  me  this  is  just  a  soup,  beans,  and  carrot-juice  joint?  Is  that  all  you  got  here?&quot;  Q  \xe2\x80\x98P\xe2\x80\x99  85  &quot;Yes,  Richard.  Just  soup  and  beans.  They're  very  filling,  though.&quot;  &quot;Ahhm  gonna  have  to  call  Betty  Crocker,  'cause  I'm  in  the  mood  for  some  pie,  darlin'.&quot;  Suzie  looks  at  me  sort  of  worried  and  says  that  she  thinks  Betty  Crocker  is  dead.  Fuck.  I  realized  I  just  had  to  sit  on  the  couch  andwatch  her,  and  this  goes  on  and  on,  and  of  course  I  think  I  hear  someone  crashing  around  in  the  yard,  so  I  get  my  .357  out  from  under  my  pillow  and  walk  around  the  perimeter  of  the  house,  my  feet  crunching  on  the  frozen  snow.  There  was  nobody  out  there.  Back  inside  I  checked  on  Susan,  who  was  asleep  in  my  bed.  When  I  finally  saw  the  ris,  ing  of  the  sun  and  heard  birds  chirping  to  greet  the  new  day,  I  went  to  the  refrigerator,  where  I  saw  my  recent  affirmation:  &quot;Richard,  you  are  a  good  and  loving  person,&quot;  etc.  I  ripped  it  off  the  refrigerator  and  tore  it  into  a  thousand  tiny  pieces.  Only  an  idiot  would  write  something  like  that.  It  was  like,  I  can't  hack  it  in  Africa,  can't  hack  it  at  home-all  I  can  hack  is  dead.  So  I  took  all  the  bullets  out  of  the  .357  except  one,  spun  the  chamber,  placed  the  barrel  against  my  right  temple,  and  squeezed  the  trigger.  When  I  heard  the  click  of  the  hammer-voila!  I  instantly  felt  better.  My  thumb  quit  throbbing.  My  stomach  did  not  burn.  The  dread  of  morning  and  of  sunlight  had  vanished,  and  I  saw  the  dawn  as  something  good,  the  birdsong  wonderful.  Even  the  obscure,  take-it-  for-granted  objects  in  my  house-the  little  knickknacks  covered  in  an  inch  of  dust,  a  simple  wooden  chair,  my  morn-  ing  coffee  cup  drying  upside  down  on  the  drainboard-seemed  so  relevant,  so  alive  and  necessary.  I  was  glad  for  life  and  glad  to  be  alive,  especially  when  I  looked  down  at  the  gun  and  saw  that  my  bullet  had  rotated  to  the  firing  chamber.  The  van  Gogh  effect  again.  I  was  back  from  Cat  Four  to  Cat  One.  0\xe2\x80\x9c  HEYRE  calling  from  the  hospital,  because  I  kept  Susan  overnight:  &quot;Where  is  Susan?&quot;  &quot;She's  watching  Days  of  Our  Lives,  &quot;I  say  as  I  shove  the  .357  into  a  top  drawer  next  to  the  phone  book.  &quot;Is  she  taking  her  Stelazine?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Absolutely.  Thanks  for  your  concern.  Now,  goodbye!&quot;  Just  then  the  doorbell  rings,  and  what  I've  got  is  apair  of  Jehovah's  Wit-     " b"86  nesses.  I've  seen  enough  of  themon  the  Dark  Continent  to  overcome  an  instine-  tive  dread,  since  they  seem  to  be  genu-  inely  content,  proportionately-like,  if  youmeasured  a  bunch  of  them  against  the  general  population  they  are  very  happy  people,  and  so  pretty  soon  we're  drinking  Sanka  and  Susan  comes  out  and  they  are  talking  about  Christ's  Kingdom  on  [REDACTED]  where  the  lion  lies  down  with  the  lamb,  and  Susan  buys  every  word  of  it,  'cause  it's  like  that  line  &quot;Unless  they  come  to  me  as  little  chil-  dren  ..  .&quot;  Susan  is  totally  guile-  less  and  the  two  Witnesses  are  without  much  guile,  and  I,  the  king  of  agnostics,  listen  and  think,  How's  a  lion  going  to  eat  straw?  It's  got  a  G.1.  system  designed  to  consume  flesh,  bones,  and  viscera-it's  got  sharp  teeth,  claws,  and  predatory  instincts,  not  twenty-seven  stomachs,  like  some  bovine  Bossiethe  Cow  or  whatever.  And  while  I'm  paging  through  a  copyof  Awake!,  I  see  a  little  article  from  the  correspondent  in  [REDACTED]  entitled  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  Worm-Its  Final  Days.&quot;  As  a  doctor  of  tropical  medicine,  I  probably  know  more  about  Dracunculus  medinensis,  the  &quot;hery  serpent,&quot;  or  [REDACTED]  worm,  than  anyone  in  the  country.  Infection  followsinges-  tion  of  water  containing  crustacea  (Cy-  clops).  The  worms  penetrate  the  gut  wall  and  mature  in  the  retroperitoneal  space,  where  they  can  grow  three  feet  in  length,  and  then  generally  migrate  to  the  lower  legs,  where  they  form  a  painful  blister.  What  the  Africans  do  is  burst  the  ulcer  and  extract  the  adult  worm  by  hooking  a  stick  under  it  and  everso  gently  tugging  it  out,  since  if  you  break  it  offthe  dead  body  can  become  septic  and  the  leg  might  have  to  be  removed.  The  pain  of  the  [REDACTED]  worm  is  on  a  par  with  the  pain  of  gout,  and  it  can  take  ten  days  to  nudge  one  out.  The  bad  part  is  theyusu-  ally  come  not  in  singles  but  in  multiples.  I've  seenseven  come  out  of  an  old  man's  leg.  If  and  when  Global  Aid  sends  me  back  to  Africa,  I  will  help  continue  the  worm-eradication  program,  and  as  the  Witnesses  delight  Susan  with  tales  of  a  Heaven  on  [REDACTED]  I'm  thinking  of  the  heat  and  the  bugs  in  the  equatorial  zone,  and  the  muddy  water  that  the  villagers  take  from  rivers-they  pour  it  in  jugs  and  let  the  sediment  settle  for  an  hourand  then  dip  from  the  top,  where  it  looks  sort  of  clean;  it's  hard  to  get  through  to  them     that  Cyclops  crustacea  may  be  floating  about  invisibly  and  one  swallow  could  get  you  seven  worms,  a  swallow  you  took  three  years  ago.  You  can  talk  to  the  vil-  lagers  until  you're  blue  in  the  face  and  they'll  drink  it  anyhow.  So  you  have  to  poison  the  Cyclops  without  overpoisoning  the  water.  I  mean,  it  canbe  done,  but,  given  the  way  things  work  over  there,  you  have  to  do  everything  yourself  if  you  want  it  done  right,  which  is  why  I  hate  the  ida  of  going  back:  you  have  to  come  on  like  a  one-man  band.  On  the  other  hand,  Brother  Bogue  and  the  other  brothers  in  the  home  office  of  Global  Aid  don't  trust  me;  they  don't  like  it  when  I  come  into  the  office  irre-  pressibly  happy,  like  Maurice  Chevalier  in  his  tuxedo  and  straw  hat-*&quot;Jambo  jambo,  bwana,  jambo  bon-  jour!&quot;-and  give  everyone  one  of  those  African  soft  handshakes,  and  then  may-  be  do  a  little  turn  at  seventy-eight  revolu-  tions  per  minute:  &quot;Oh,  ow?  owt,  it's  de-  lightful  for  me,  walking  my  baby  back  home!&quot;  or  &quot;Hey,  ain't  it  great,  after  stay-  ing  out  late?  Zangk  heffen  for  leetle  gorls.&quot;  Etc.  They  hate  it  when  I'm  high  and  they  hate  it  when  I'm  low,  and  they  hate  it  most  if  I'm  feeling  crazy/paranoid  and  come  in  and  say,  &quot;You  won't  believe  what  happened  to  me  now!&quot;  To  face  those  humorless  brothers  every  day  and  stay  forever  in  a  job  as  a  medical  admin-  istrator,  to  wear  a  suit  and  tie  and  drive  I-5  morning  and  night,  to  climb  under  the  house  and  tape  those  pipes  with  insu-  lation-you  get  in  the  crawl  space  and  the  dryer-hose  vent  is  busted  and  there's  lint  up  the  ass,  a  time  bomb  for  sponta-  neous  combustion,  funny  the  house  hasn't  blown  already  (and  further-  more,  no  wonder  the  house  is  dusty),  and,  hey,  what,  carpenter  ants,  too?  When  I  think  of  all  that:  Fair  [REDACTED],  I  bid  you  adieu!  But  things  are  basically  looking  up  when  I  get  Suz  back  to  the  hospital.  As  luck  has  it,  I  meet  an  496e646961n  psychia-  trist  who  spent  fifteen  years  in  Kam-  pala,  Uganda-he  was  one  of  the  three  shrinks  in  the  whole  country-and  I  ask  him  how  Big  Daddy  Idi  Amin  is  doing.  Apparently,  he's  doing  fine,  living  in  Saudi  Arabia  with  paresis  or  something,  and  the  next  thing  you  know  the  doe  is  telling  me  he's  going  to  review  Susan's  case  file,  which  means  he's  going  to  put  her  in  a  better  ward  and  look  out  for  her,  and  that's  a  load  off  my  mind.  Be-  THE  NEW  YORKER,  JUNE  21,  1993  fore  I  go,  Suz  and  I  take  a  little  stroll  around  the  spacious  hospital  grounds  it's  a  tranquil  place.  I  can't  help  think-  ing  that  if  Brother  Bogue  fires  me-  though  I'm  determined  to  behave  myself  after  my  latest  mishap-I  could  come  here  and  take  Haldol  and  lithium,  watch  color  TV,  and  drool.  Whatever  hap-  pened  tothat  deal  where  you  just  went  off  to  the  hospital  for  a  &quot;little  rest,&quot;  with  no  stigma  attached?  Maybe  all  I  need  is  some  rest.  Susan  still  has  those  Jehovah's  Wit-  nesses  on  her  mind.  As  we  sit  on  a  bench,  she  pulls  one  of  their  booklets  out  of  her  coat  and  shows  me  scenes  of  cor-  nucopias  filled  with  fruit  and  bounty,  rainbows,  and  vividly  colored  vistas  of  a  heaven  on  earth.  Vistas  that  I've  seen  ina  way,  however  paradoxically,  in  these  aw-  ful  Third  World  places,  and  I'm  think-  ing,  Let  them  that  have  eyes  see;  and  let  them  that  have  ears  hear-that's  how  it  is,  and  I  start  telling  Suz  about  Africa,  maybe  someday  I  can  take  her  there,  and  she  gets  excited  and  asks  me  what  it's  like.  Can  you  see  lions?  And  I  tell  her,  &quot;Yeah,  baby,  you'll  see  lions,  giraffes,  zebras,  monkeys,  and  par-  rots,  and  the  Pygmies.&quot;  And  she  really  wants  to  see  Pygmies.  So  I  tell  her  about  a  Pygmy  chief  who  likes  to  trade  meat  for  tobacco,  T-shirts,  candy,  and  trin-  kets,  and  about  how  one  time  when  I  went  manicand  took  to  the  bush  I  stayed  with  this  tribe,  and  went  on  a  hunt  with  them,  and  we  found  a  honeycomb  in  the  forest;  one  of  the  hunters  climbed  up  the  tree  to  knock  it  down,  oblivious  of  all  the  bees  that  were  biting  him.  There  were  about  five  of  usin  the  party  and  maybe  ten  pounds  of  honey  and  we  ate  all  of  it  on  the  spot,  didn't  save  an  ounce,  be-  cause  we  had  the  munchies  from  smok-  ing  dope.  I  don't  tell  Suz  how  it  feels  to  take  an  airplane  to  New  York,  wait  four  hours  for  a  flight  to  [REDACTED],  spend  six  hours  in  a  transient  lounge,  and  then  hop  on  a  nine-hour  flight  to  4b656e7961,  clear  customs,  and  ride  on  the  backof  afeed  truck  driven  by  a  kamikaze  African  over  potholes,  through  thick  red  dust,  mos-  quitoes,  black  flies,  tsetse  flies,  or  about  river  blindness,  bone-break  fever,  bilhar-  ziasis,  dumdum  fever,  tropical  ulcers,  AIDS,  leprosy,  etc.  To  go  through  all  that  to  save  somebody's  life  and  maybe  have  them  spit  in  your  eye  for  the  favor-I  don't  tell  her  about  it,  the  way  you  don't  tell  a  little  kid  that  Santa  Claus  is  a  fabri-  cation.  And  anyhow  if  I  had  eyes  and  " b" could  see,  and  ears  and  could  hear-it  very  well  might  be  the  Garden  of  Eden.  I  mean,  I  can  fuck  up  a  wet  dream  with  my  attitude.  I  don't  tell  her  that  lions  don't  eat  straw,  never  have,  and  so  she's  happy.  And  it's  a  nice  moment  for  me,  too,  in  a  funny-ass  way.  I'm  beginning  to  feel  that  with  her  I  might  find  another  little  island  of  stability.  MOTHER  hospital  visit:  winter  has  given  way  to  spring  and  the  cherry  blossoms  are  out.  In  two  weeks  it's  gone  from  ten  below  to  sixty-five,  my  Elavil  and  lithium  are  kicking  in,  and  I'm  feel-  ing  fine,  calm,  feeling  pretty  good.  (I'm  ready  to  go  back  and  rumble  in  the  jungle,  yeah!  Sha-/ah  la-la-la-lah.)  Susan  tells  me  she  had  a  prophetic  dream.  She's  unusually  focussed  and  articulate.  She  tells  me  she  dreamed  the  two  of  us  were  driving  around  Heaven  in  a  blue  '67  Dodge.  &quot;A  '67  Dodge.  Baby,  what  were  we,  the  losers  of  Heaven?&quot;  &quot;Maybe,  but  it  didn't  really  matter  because  we  were  there  and  we  were  happy.&quot;  &quot;What  were  the  other  people  like?  Who  was  there?  Was  Arthur  Schopen-  hauer  there?&quot;  &quot;You  silly!  We  didn't  see  other  people.  Just  the  houses.  We  drove  up  this  hill  and  everything  was  like  in  a  Walt  Disney  cartoon  and  we  looked  at  one  an-  other  and  smiled  because  we  were  in  Heaven,  because  we  made  it,  because  there  wasn't  any  more  shit.&quot;  &quot;Now,  let  me  get  this  straight.  We  were  driving  around  in  a  beat-up  car-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Richard,  but  it  didn't  matter.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  finish.  You  say  people  lived  in  houses.  That  means  people  have  to  build  houses.  Paint  them,  clean  them,  and  maintain  them.  Are  you  telling  me  that  people  in  Heaven  have  jobs?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  they  like  their  jobs.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  does  it  never  end?  A  jod!  What  am  I  going  to  do?I'm  a  doctor.  If  people  don'tget  sick  there,  they'll  prob-  ably  make  me  a  coal  miner  or  some-  thing.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  you'll  love  it.&quot;  She  grabs  my  arm  with  both  hands,  pitches  her  fore-  head  against  my  chest,  and  laughs.  It's  the  first  time  I've  heard  Susan  laugh,  ever-since  we  were  kids,  I  mean.  &quot;Richard,  it's  just  like  [REDACTED]  but  with  none  of  the  bad  stuff.  You  were  happy,  too.  So  please  don't  worry.  Is  Africa  like  the  Garden  of  Eden,  Richard?&quot;  &quot;It's  lush  all  right,  but  there's  lots  and  lots  of  dead  time,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;It's  a  good  place  to  read  'Anna  Karenina.&quot;  Do  you  get  to  read  novels  in  Heaven,  hon?  Have  they  got  a  library?  After  I  pull  my  shift  in  the  coal  mine,  do  I  get  to  take  a  nice  little  shower,  hop  in  the  Dodge,  and  drive  over  to  the  library?&quot;  Susan  laughs  for  the  second  time.  &quot;We  will  travel  from  glory  to  glory,  Rich-  ard,  and  you  won'tbe  asking  existential  questions  all  'the  time.  You  won't  have  to  anymore.  And  Mom  and  Dad  will  be  there.  You  and  me,  all  of  us  in  perfect  health.  No  coal  mining.  No  wars,  no  fighting,  no  discontent.  Satan  will  be  in  the  Big  Pit.  He's  on  the  earth  now  tor-  menting  us,  but  these  are  his  last  days.  Why  do  you  think  we  are  here?&quot;  &quot;I  often  ask  myself  that  question.&quot;  &quot;Just  hold  on  for  a  little  while  longer,  Richard.  Can  you  do  that?  Will  you  do  it  for  me,  Richard?  What  good  would  Heaven  be  if  you're  not  there?  Please,  Richard,  tell  me  you'll  come.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;O.K.,  baby,  anything  for  you.  I  repent.&quot;  &quot;No  more  Fyodor  Dostoyevski&quot;&quot;  &quot;T'll  be  non-Dostoyevski.  It's  just  that,  in  the  meantime,  we're  just  sitting  around  here-waiting  for  Godot?&quot;  &quot;No,  Richard,  don't  be  a  smart-ass.  In  the  meantime  we  eat  lunch.  What  did  you  bring?&quot;  I  opened  up  a  deli  bagand  laid  out  chicken-salad-sandwich  halves  on  home-  made  bread  wrapped  in  white  butcher  paper.  The  sandwiches  were  stuffed  with  alfalfa  sprouts  and  grated  cheese,  im-  paled  with  toothpicks  with  red,  blue,  and  green  cellophane  ribbons  on  them,  and  there  were  two  large,  perfect,  crunchy  garlic  pickles  on  the  side.  And  a  couple  of  cartons  of  strawberry  Yoplait,  two  tubs  of  fruit  salad  with  fresh  whipped  cream  and  little  wooden  spoons,  and  two  large  cardboard  cups  of  aromatic,  steaming,  fresh  black  coffee.  It  begins  to  rain,  and  we  have  to  haul  ass  into  the  front  seat  of  my  Olds,  where  Suzand  I  finish  the  best  little  lunch  of  a  lifetime  and  suddenly  the  Shirelles  are  singing,  &quot;This  is  dedicated  to  the  one  I  love,&quot;  and  I'm  thinking  that  I'm  gonna  be  all  right,  and  in  the  mean-  time  what  can  be  better  than  a  cool,  breezy,  fragrant  day,  rain-splatter  dia-  monds  on  the  wraparound  windshield  of  a  Ninety-eight  Olds  with  a  view  of  cherry  trees  blooming  in  the  light  spring  rain? "