 T  the  gate  of  the  Grand  Hotel  de  Mali,  a  brothel  that  served  as  an  inn  for  the  rare  tourist  in  Oulaba,  Darren  reached  inside  her  shirt  and  paid  off  her  first  guide.  The  child  had  only  carried  her  pack  up  the  short  path  from  the  road,  and  his  dark  eyes  grew  round  as  he  took  the  one-hundred-  C.F.A.  coin  into  his  fist.  Immediately,  the  other  boys  attacked  him,  snatching  at  the  money.  &quot;White  lady!&quot;  one  of  the  chil-  dren  shouted  in  French.  &quot;We  all  led  you  here.  We  are  all  your  guides,  and  you  must  pay  all  of  us!&quot;  Darren  shook  her  head,  banged  the  gate  shut  behind  her,  and  went  down  a  dark  corridor.  Behind  one  of  the  closed  doors  a  whore  wailed.  Her  voice  rose  and  fell  like  a  siren,  now  laughing,  now  cry-  ing,  following  Darren  down  and  around  the  halls  to  the  courtyard,  where  the  sound  of  television  drowned  it  out.  A  black-  and-white  set  perched  precariously  on  a  stack  of  crates,  balanced  by  two  rabbit  ears.  Beneath  the  screen,  Malians  sat  on  mats,  mesmerized  by  a  fuzzy,  French-dubbed  episode  of  &quot;[REDACTED].&quot;  They  barely  turned  their  heads  as  the  small,  pale  556e6974656420537461746573n  wearing  a  man's  felt  hat  crossed  the  courtyard  to  the  bar.  &quot;Bonsoir,  Madame,&quot;  she  said  to  the  stout  woman  leaning  in  the  doorway.  &quot;Je  m  appelle  Darren.&quot;  She  asked  for  a  room  for  the  night.  The  hotelkeeper  lookedher  over.  She  uncrossed  her  arms  to  wipe  her  hands  on  the  faded  pagne  cloth  wrapped  around  her  hips  and  reaching  to  her  ankles.  Then  she  folded  her  arms  back  over  her  chest  and  returned  her  gaze  to  the  white  woman  in  bed  with  a  lover  on  the  TV  screen.  The  gold  ring  in  the  hotelkeeper's  nose  glinted  in  the  dim  light.  From  a  shadowy  corner  of  the  room,  a  boy  stepped  forward.  &quot;Bonsoir,  Madame  Darren,&quot;  he  said.  He  bowed  low,  like  a  magician  on  stage,  and  said  in  French,  &quot;Please  excuse  my  mother,  for  she  doesn't  speak  the  languages  of  the  first  world.  My  name  is  Jaraffe,  and  I  am  at  your  dis-  posal.&quot;  He  offered  a  brilliant  smile.  &quot;Amer-  ican,  I  presume?  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  my  fa-  vorite  people.  How  do  you  find  Mali?  If  FICTION  THE  GUIDE  BY  MELANIE  SUMNER  you  care  to  see  our  cliffs  tomorrow,  I  am  pleased  to  be  your  guide.  You  are  tired.  Perhaps  you  would  like  a  beer?  I  suggest  the  imported  beer.  Normally,  of  course,  one  can't  find  such  luxuries  in  Oulaba,  but  this  is  your  lucky  day.&quot;  He  lifted  his  thin  shoulders  in  an  elegant  shrug.  She  wanted  to  laugh  at  him,  but  she  was  stunned  by  his  beauty.  He  was  slen-  der,  with  skin  the  color  of  honey,  and  silky  black  curls  that  fell  into  damp  ring-  lets  at  the  nape  of  his  neck.  His  nose  was  precise  and  delicate;  his  lips  curved  salaciously,  blood-red  against  small,  even,  white  teeth.  A  new  T-shirt,  several  sizes  too  large,  slid  off  one  shoulder,  bar-  ing  the  bones  of  his  chest.  As  she  studied  him,  he  kept  his  head  demurely  bowed,  hiding  his  eyes  beneath  their  lashes,  but  suddenly  he  raised  his  head  and  stared  back.  He  had  the  yellow  eyes  of  a  cat.  &quot;How  old  are  you,  Jaraffe?&quot;  &quot;Me?  Well,  I  am  thirteen.  No,  not  thirteen.  Did  I  say  thirteen?&quot;  He  affected  a  bemused  chuckle  and  stretched  himself  up  taller.  &quot;I  am  fourteen,  actually.  Almost  fifteen.&quot;  &quot;Tll  have  the  imported  beer,&quot;  she  said,  sure  that  he  would  return  with  a  flat,  warm  Gazelle,  or  something  worse,  and  a  long  explanation.  She  sat  down  at  a  low,  rusty  table  and  rested  her  head  in  her  hands.  In  a  few  moments,  he  reappeared  with  an  icy  bottle  of  Heineken.  She  held  her  hand  out  for  it  before  she  caught  herself.  Then  she  narrowed  her  eyes  in  the  ex-  pression  of  jaded  wariness  that  she  adopted  in  her  dealings  with  Africans.  The  expression  was  fake.  She  was  alone  and,  more  or  less,  lost.  In  a  leather  pouch  hanging  from  her  neck  and  tucked  inside  her  khaki  pants  she  had  five  hundred  dollars,  more  money  than  the  average  African  earned  in  a  year.  If  she  had  to,  she  would  pay  an  outrageous  price  for  the  cold  beer,  and  the  child  knew  this.  How  much?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;For  you,  my  friend,  seven  hundred  CEA.&quot;  &quot;Six  hundred.&quot;  He  shrugged,  handed  her  the  bottle,  and  returned  to  a  stool  in  the  corner.  Af-  ter  a  weary  sigh,  he  removed  a  crumpled  cigarette  from  his  shirt  pocket  and  ap-  proached  her  again.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  light,  Darren?&quot;  When  she  shook  her  head,  he  found  some  matches  in  his  pocket,  smiled  apologetically,  and,  lighting  his  cigarette,  sat  down  beside  her.  The  game  began.  Darren  considered  telling  him  that  she  had  not  invited  him  to  sit  with  her,  but  she  was  too  tired  to  get  tangled  in  the  absurd  exchange  that  would  inevitably  follow  such  a  statement,  and,  after  all,  Jaraffe  was  only  aboy.  Three  days  ago  she  had  set  out  from  her  Peace  Corps  station  in  Senegal  on  an  odyssey  to  Timbuktu,  and  since  then  she  had  not  had  a  moment's  respite  from  Af-  rican  men  who  considered  any  young,  white  woman  travelling  alone  to  be  pub-  lic  property.  Her  furious  protests  were  as  delightful  to  these  men  as  if  they  came  from  the  mouth  of  an  unbranded  cow  wandering  in  their  fields.  On  the  first  hour  of  the  train  ride  from  Dakar  to  Bamako,  a  note  was  pressed  into  her  hand:  Hello  my  556e6974656420537461746573n  frend.  I  find  you  is  so  very  nice  for  me.  So  yes  you  pleese  me.  I  love  you.  Now  we  will  be  together.  [REDACTED].  For  the  next  twenty  hours,  no  matter  where  she  sat  on  the  train,  the  man  wedged  himself  beside  her,  smiling  in-  dulgently  at  her  rejections.  He  did  not  consider  himself  rude.  Now,  having  gained  a  seat  at  her  table,  Jaraffe  sailed  into  the  relationship.  &quot;Are  you  married,  if  you  don't  mind  my  asking?&quot;  Smoke  curled  softly  out  of  his  lips  and  hung  in  the  moist  air  between  them.  He  wasn't  inhaling.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  lied.  &quot;Your  husband  is  an  oil  tycoon,  per-  haps?  Or  a  doctor?  It's  none  of  my  busi-  ness.  I  myself  will  be  a  surgeon.  When  I  have  saved  enough  money,  I  am  going  to  [REDACTED]  to  study  medicine.  Now,  when  I  am  not  in  school,  I  work  as  a  guide.  I  give  most  of  the  pay  to  my  mother,  of  course,  but  I  save  what  I  can  for  my  journey  to  [REDACTED].  Perhaps  you  and  your  husband  would  like  me  to  take  you  to  the  cliffs  to-  morrow?  We  can  goand  return  in  a  single  day,  if  you  like.&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't...  my  husband  and  1  weren't  planning  to  go  to  the  cliffs.&quot;  " b"With  a  wave  of  his  hand,  he  dismissed  this  detail.  &quot;I  know  the  cliffs.  The  other  boys  will  ask  to  be  your  guide,  but,  unfor-  tunately,  they  are  all  liars  and  thieves.&quot;  &quot;Thanks  for  the  information,  but  we  don't  need  a  guide.&quot;  He  smiled  at  her  bad  French  and  con-  tinued.  &quot;For  you,  my  friend,  I  will  only  charge  fifteen  thousand  C.F.A.  a  day,  or  fifty  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollars  if  you  like.  You  see,  I  must  go  into  the  cliffs  tomorrow  anyway,  because  I  have  a  secret  mission  there.  My  father  is  a  marabout-a  magi-  cian,  if  you  will.  He  can  turn  rocks  into  coins,  he  can  make  your  enemies  run  when  they  see  you  coming  down  the  path,  and  he  can  make  it  rain.&quot;  He  paused,  watching  her  with  his  yellow  eyes.  &quot;He  can  make  the  dead  rise  again.&quot;  Darren  nodded.  &quot;I  see  that  you  don't  believe  me,  but  that  is  understandable.  Even  in  a  country  as  great  as  [REDACTED],  you  have  never  seen  anything  like  this.  Tomorrow  my  father  is  coming  here  to  show  his  magic  in  the  courtyard,  and  then  you  will  see  that  Af-  ricans  may  be  poor,  but  we  have  special  powers.&quot;  When  she  glanced  over  his  shoulder,  he  said,  &quot;All  right.  This  is  a  special  price  for  you  only.  Thirteen  thou-  sand  C.E.A.  It's  all  settled.&quot;  A  gendarme  stomped  into  the  room,  pushing  a  drunk  ahead  of  him.  &quot;Jaraffe!&quot;  the  drunk  shouted.  The  boy  jumped  up  to  run  from  the  room,  but  the  drunk  lunged  and  punched  him  in  the  face.  Then  Jaraffe's  mother  came  forward,  and  with  one  smooth  swing  of  her  arm  she  struck  the  drunk  on  the  temple.  He  slid  down  in  the  gendarme's  arms,  his  head  hanging  to  one  side,  his  mouth  open.  Jaraffe  was  gone.  &quot;Voila&quot;  cried  the  gendarme,  who  was  also  drunk.  He  shouted  gaily  in  Bambara  as  he  dragged  his  prisoner  across  the  floor  and  propped  him  against  the  wall  like  a  sack  of  millet.  The  woman     crossed  her  arms  back  over  her  chest  and  said  nothing.  Again,  the  gendarme  cried,  &quot;Voila&quot;  He  was  a  handsome,  barrel-  chested  man  in  a  khaki  uniform,  with  skin  as  black  and  gleaming  as  the  pistol  that  hung  in  the  holster  skewed  around  his  hips.  He  turned  his  attention  to  Darren.  &quot;Excuse  us,  Madame!&quot;  he  roared.  &quot;Bonsoir.  ...  Madame  americaine?  Ou  Madame  francaise?  I  hope  we  are  not  disturbing  you.&quot;  &quot;C'est  Madame  am\xc3\xa9ricaine,&quot;  she  said  firmly.  &quot;Monsieur  Gendarme.  Enchant\xc3\xa9.&quot;  He  thrust  his  hand  forward.  &quot;Bigre&quot;&quot;  he  shouted,  and  dropped  down  on  the  bench  beside  her.  &quot;Are  you  in  Oulaba  to  visit  our  spectacular  cliffs?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  on  my  way  to  Timbuktu.  I  was  going  to  fly  out  of  Mopti,  but-&quot;  She  stopped,  remember-  ing  that  he  was  a  gendarme.  In  Mopti,  the  police  had  discovered  that  she  wasn't  carrying  the  /cense  de  photographie  they  required  of  all  foreigners  with  cameras.  The  fine  for  this  crime  was  the  camera  it-  self,  or  jail.  Using  the  alibi  that  she  was  going  back  to  her  hotel  to  get  the  permit,  she  had  jumped  into  the  first  available  jit,  ending  up  in  Oulaba,  a  town  that  wasn't  even  on  her  map.  Now  she  forced  a  thin  smile.  &quot;The  boy  here,  Jaraffe,  offered  to  be  my  guide.  Do  you  know  him?&quot;  &quot;You  want  Jaraffe?  I'll  sell  him  cheap.&quot;  He  slammed  his  fist  on  the  table,  shaking  Darren's  bottle,  and  threw  his  head  back  to  laugh.  &quot;Is  he  a  bandit?&quot;  &quot;No!  I  can't  sell  bandits  cheap.  The  bandits  are  expensive!&quot;  He  howled  at  his  own  joke  and  then  composed  himself.  &quot;C'est  'Madame  americaine,  ou  Made-  moiselle?&quot;  &quot;C'est  Madame.&quot;  &quot;I  like  your  hat,  Madame,&quot;  he  said.  He  peered  under  the  brim  at  her  face.  &quot;Give  it  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Tomorrow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Ah,  you  know  Africa  too  well!&quot;  He  shouted  for  Jaraffe.  The  doorway  to  the  bar  remained  empty.  &quot;The  boy  is  ashamed,&quot;  said  the  gendarme.  He  took  a  drink  and  turned  the  bottle  around  in  his  broad  hand.  For  a  moment  his  brow  creased  into  deep  lines.  His  voice  became  maudlin.  &quot;That's  the  boy's  father,&quot;  he  said,  inclining  his  head  to  the  drunk  on  the  floor.  Darren  turned  to  look  at  the  man  slumped  against  the  wall.  His  robe  was  torn  and  soiledto  the  uniform  gray  of  fools'  rags,  and  the  nails  on  his  hands  were  twisted  and  yel-  low,  like  the  nails  of  a  madman.  A  thin  line  of  blood  dribbled  from  his  slack  mouth.  Three  whores  walked  into  the  room,  dressed  in  tight  miniskirts  and  stiletto  heels.  They  laughed  at  Darren  in  her  hat.  One  of  them  sat  beside  her  and  said,  &quot;You  are  my  sister.&quot;  She  reeked  of  beer  and  cheap  perfume,  and  her  painted  mouth  was  frightening.  Darren  motioned  to  Jaraffe's  mother,  who  led  her  across  the  courtyard  and  down  the  corridor  to  a  door  she  opened  with  a  skel-  eton  key.  The  room  " b"86  had  a  concrete  floor  and  walls,  and  near  the  ceiling  there  was  one  tiny  window  with  no  pane,  crossed  with  iron  bars.  The  foam  mattress  on  the  floor  was  covered  with  a  dirty  pagne.  &quot;Merci,  ma  mere,&quot;  said  Darren.  The  woman  almost  smiled  as  she  tucked  Darren's  two  bills  into  her  bra.  Talking  rapidly  in  Bambara,  she  locked  and  unlocked  the  door  several  times,  and  Darren  nodded.  &quot;Yes,  I'll  lock  it,&quot;  she  said  in  English.  &quot;Thanks.&quot;  IN  the  morning,  in  the  bloody  light  of  the  rising  sun,  Darren  saw  the  cliffs  for  the  first  time.  They  rose  up  and  shim-  mered  all  around  the  dusty  village  like  huge  gold  nuggets  piled  by  the  hands  of  giants.  No  matter  where  she  turned  her  head,  she  saw  the  low,  golden  moun-  tains,  scintillating  in  the  sun  like  broken  glass.  They  drew  her  toward  them.  Rea-  son  told  her  that  mountains  are  generally  farther  away  and  higher  than  they  seem,  that  she  was  an  inexperienced  climber  and  would  not  be  safe  out  there  alone;  but  although  Darren  always  put  on  a  great  show  of  being  practical  in  front  of  other  people,  when  left  to  her  own  de-  vices  she  was  as  hapless  as  a  child  alone  on  the  moon.  Her  only  concern  was  that  Jaraffe  might  find  her  and  insist  on  being  her  guide,  so  she  shouldered  her  pack  and  hurried  down  the  road.  At  the  market  she  stopped  to  fill  her  pack  with  whatever  seemed  edible:  dried  dates,  canned  sar-  dines,  a  strange  fruit  that  rattled  when  she  shook  it.  &quot;Cheese?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Bread?&quot;  But  the  women  just  shook  their  heads  and  laughed,  holding  out  their  rough  palms  for  money.  She  wondered  how  Jaraffe  had  been  able  to  get  his  hands  on  a  Heineken.  He  was  not  among  the  pack  of  children  who  followed  her  to  the  edge  of  town,  calling  &quot;Hey,  white  lady,  look  at  me.  I  am  your  guide!&quot;  The  children  escorted  her  to  the  banks  of  a  muddy  river  where  young  women  waded  with  their  pages  pulled  up  over  their  thighs,  balancing  brightly  colored  plastic  buckets  on  their  heads.  One  of  them  knelt  and  drank.  They  all  watched  curiously  as  Darren  pulled  off  her  expen-  sive  new  hiking  boots  and  rolled  her  jeans  up  to  her  knees,  and  when  she  waded  across  with  the  pack  on  her  back,  they  shouted  to  one  another  and  laughed.  &quot;Au  revoir!&quot;  the  children  yelled  from  the  bank.  &quot;A  bientot!&quot;  'The  bravest  boys  smacked  their  lips  to  make  loud  kissing  noises  as  she  went  down  the  narrow,  sandy  path  and  curved  out  of  their  vision.  She  had  to  keep  herself  from  breaking  into  a  run.  The  desert  opened  up  all  around  her,  and  she  gulped  the  fresh  air  until  her  throat  was  parched.  Within  half  an  hour  she  began  to  burn.  The  sun  bored  through  the  sunscreen  on  her  face  and  arms,  resting  on  her  soft,  freckled  skin  like  a  warm  iron.  Already,  the  stiff  leather  of  her  boots  was  cutting  blisters  on  her  feet.  She  didn't  care.  She  shifted  the  light  pack  on  her  shoulders  and  marched  on,  imagining  telling  her  brothers  in  Ten-  nessee  about  this  adventure.  As  a  child,  she  used  to  stand  crying  in  the  doorway  when  they  left  the  house  in  their  oiled  hiking  boots,  shouldering  heavy  packs  of  Bunsen  burners,  gorp,  and  powdered  eggs.  &quot;We  girls  have  to  stay  home,&quot;  her  mother  said,  and  she  tried  to  teach  Darren  how  to  knit.  What  was  a  lap  of  tangled  yarn  compared  to  entry  into  the  horizon?  When  the  boys  came  home,  smelling  of  woodsmoke,  sweat,  and  leaves,  she  ripped  out  every  stitch  she  had  painstak-  " b"  ingly  knitted  in  the  sweater  sleeve.  &quot;I'm  a  prisoner!&quot;  she  yelled.  &quot;Tl  run  away!  You'll  see!&quot;  Her  mother  told  her  to  keep  her  voice  down,  and  the  brothers  smirked.  As  the  sun  rose  higher,  the  cliffs  lost  their  golden  sheen  and  became  hot,  dry  rocks.  Darren  had  no  sense  of  measure;  the  mountain  could  have  been  a  thousand  or  ten  thousand  feet  high,  but  the  top  of  it  seemed  rather  close  to  the  clouds.  When  she  began  her  climb,  some  of  the  rocks  tipped  under  her  weight.  There  was  no  sound  but  the  dry  scrape  of  her  breathing  and  the  slide  of  her  boots.  Then  the  silence  broke.  &quot;Darren!&quot;  a  thin  voice  called.  She  looked  at  the  bare  rock  all  around  her  and  up  at  the  wide,  empty  sky.  &quot;Madame  Darren!  I  am  here!&quot;  Two  yards  away,  through  a  wide  crack  in  the  rock,  Jaraffe  poked  out  his  curly  head.  Her  heart  sank.  &quot;Quelle  bonne  surprise!&quot;  he  exclaimed,  slithering  out  of  the  rock  and  landing  on  his  feet  like  a  cat.  A  purple  bruise  shone  around  one  eye.  &quot;Here  I  was,  just  going  along  on  my  secret  mission,  all  alone,  and  8T  I  find  Madame  Darren,  my  556e6974656420537461746573n  friend!&quot;  He  grinned  from  ear  to  ear.  &quot;And  you're  all  red  and  tired  but  still  so  beautiful.  Were  you  frightened  and  lonely?  Dismiss  all  your  fears-your  guide  has  found  you.&quot;  She  had  been  warned  about  this.  If  she  refused  his  services  out  here,  he  would  follow  her  back  to  town  and  tell  everyone  that  he  had  guided  her  but  she  had  refused  to  pay  him.  If  she  did  accept  him  now  as  a  guide,  there  would  be  no  one  to  witness  the  bargain,  and  he  might  do  the  same  thing.  &quot;Where  are  your  shoes,  Jaraffe?&quot;  He  glanced  down  at  his  dusty  feet  as  if  he  fully  expected  to  find  shoes  there,  then  looked  up  and  shrugged.  His  hands  were  as  small  as  sparrows,  and  when  he  held  them  out  by  his  sides,  palms  up,  he  ap-  peared  to  be  the  most  vulnerable  little  boyon  earth.  Suddenly  she  was  furious.  &quot;How  much  do  you  charge  for  this  tour?&quot;  At  the  nasty  tone  of  her  voice  he  raised  his  eyebrows  in  a  perfect  arc.  He  dragged  one  toe  along  the  rock.  &quot;IT'wo  hundred  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollars.&quot;  She  laughed,  and  he  joined  her  in  a  child's  falsetto.  She  raised  her  hand  to  him.  &quot;You  are  a  child,  and  you  will  speak  to  me  with  respect!&quot;  When  he  ducked,  she  was  ashamed  of  herself.  Out  of  reach,  he  smirked  contemptu-  ously  and  said,  &quot;Well,  of  course,  I  am  ac-  tually  here  on  a  secret  mission  for  my  fa-  ther,  as  I  explained  last  night,  and  so  if  you  choose  to  follow  me,  well,  then  Ias-  sure  you  that  you  will  see  what  no  tourist  ever  sees.  I  thought  you  were  my  friend,  and  so  I  had  planned  to  show  you  a  cave  filled  with  Dogon  burial  treasure.  But  this  obviously  bores  Madame,  and  so  I  beg  her  pardon.&quot;  &quot;You  lie,  boy.&quot;  He  looked  at  her,  and  for  a  moment  she  was  afraid,  but  she  continued,  raising  her  voice.  &quot;There  is  no  sacred  treasure,  and  your  father  is  not  a  magician.&quot;  &quot;You  lie!&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;You  don't  have  a  husband.  You  lie,  and  also  you  speak  French  like  a  dog!&quot;  He  stepped  back  from  her  and  mocked  her  accent,  laugh-  ing  in  a  high  whine.  &quot;Your  father  isn't  a  magician,  he's  a  drunk.&quot;  Blood  rose  to  his  cheeks,  and  his  eyes  turned  almost  black.  &quot;Whore!  Dog-  French  white-lady  whore!&quot;  &quot;Well,  you've  lost  your  fancy  manners,  " b"     haven't  you?&quot;  she  said  softly  in  English.  &quot;You  snot-nosed  little  brat.&quot;  For  an  instant  he  gazed  at  her  mouth,  wrinkling  his  smooth  brow,  as  if  the  words  still  hung  about  her  lips  and  might  be  grasped,  but  then  he  turned  his  head  away.  &quot;I  don't  understand  your  language,  and  I  hope  the  hyenas  eat  you.&quot;  &quot;Five  thousand  C.F.A.,&quot;  she  said  in  French.  &quot;Or  fifteen  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollars.  That's  the  price,  if  I  see  the  Dogon  burial  cave.&quot;  He  spit.  Then  he  jumped,  \\_:  from  one  rock  to  the  next,  leap\xe2\x80\x94  ing  the  boulders  like  a  goat  un-  til  he  was  gone.  Soon  she  heard  his  spook  sounds-strange  whistles  and  long,  sad  wails  echoing  in  the  caves  inside  the  cliff.  Clinging  to  the  rock,  she  inched  her  way  toward  the  sky.  At  noon,  when  she  stopped  to  eat,  her  body  trembled.  Sweat  stung  her  dry  lips,  salting  the  food  as  she  put  it  in  her  mouth.  The  warm,  heavily  chlorinated  water  was  delicious,  and  she  was  sorry  she  hadn't  brought  more  than  one  canteen.  She  removed  her  hat,  stretched  out  on  the  rock  beneath  an  overhang,  and  dozed.  First,  she  sensed  his  presence.  When  he  was  close  enough,  she  smelled  his  sweet,  child's  sweat,  already  familiar.  &quot;Six  thousand  C.F.A.,&quot;  she  said,  without  opening  her  eyes.  He  did  not  an-  swer.  Instead,  he  touched  her  sunglasses,  and  then  her  hair.  He  was  leaning  over  her  face  now,  so  close  that  his  breath  stirred  the  tiny  hairs  in  her  nose.  She  felt  the  wet,  exquisite  curve  of  his  lips  on  her  ear,  whispering  ina  strange  tongue.  Then  she  sneezed.  Abruptly,  she  sat  up.  &quot;What  is  your  problem?&quot;  she  yelled  in  English.  He  stared  at  her  mouth,  his  eyes  large  and  dark,  the  purple  bruise  glistening.  He  smiled  hopefully.  &quot;If  this  desert  were  hell,  you'd  be  Satan,&quot;  she  said.  She  continued  to  speak  in  English  as  she  busied  her  shak-  ing  hands  with  the  water  bottle.  She  gave  him  a  drink.  &quot;Where  are  your  shoes?  Are  you  hungry?  Here,  eat.&quot;  She  set  out  the  dates  and  sardines.  Pressed  close  against  her  legs,  he  began  to  eat  with  feline  fingers,  sucking  all  the  sugar  from  the  fruit  and  all  the  oil  from  the  fish,  finishing  everything  she  dropped  before  him.  When  he  had  eaten  his  fill,  he  said,  &quot;Seven  thousand  C.F.A.&quot;  Without  wait-  ing  for  a  response,  he  tossed  her  pack  across  his  narrow  back  and  began  zigzag-     THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  26,  1993  ging  up  the  side  of  the  cliff.  She  faced  the  first  boulder  he  had  mounted,  fingering  the  smooth  surface  for  a  grip.  Then  she  jumped,  catching  the  top  of  the  rock  with  her  hands,  scraping  her  knees  and  elbows  as  she  lugged  herself  over  the  edge.  From  a  perch  far  above  her  head  he  looked  down  and  said  in  heavily  accented  En-  glish,  &quot;What  is  your  problem?&quot;  He  told  her  to  remove  the  hiking  boots  and  hang  them  around  her  neck.  As  they  climbed,  the  soft  pink  soles  of  her  feet  became  familiar  with  the  wrinkled  face  of  the  rock,  and  she  moved  more  swiftly,  but  no  matter  how  quickly  she  climbed,  Jaraffe  skimmed  ahead  of  her.  His  bronze  legs  disappeared  against  the  rock,  and  his  blue  shirt  melted  into  the  sky.  Only  his  black  curls  stood  out  against  the  horizon,  and,  when  he  turned,  the  flash  of  his  smile.  She  did  not  look  down.  At  last,  when  the  sun  was  easing  down  over  the  mountain,  Jaraffe  stopped  to  rest.  She  handed  him  her  canteen,  and  he  drank  half  of  it.  She  took  two  short  drinks,  hesitated,  took  a  third.  &quot;Where  is  this  Dogon  cave?&quot;  &quot;Here.&quot;  &quot;Where?&quot;  There  was  nothing  around  them  but  rock  and,  far  below,  the  tiny  squiggle  of  a  sandpath  cutting  through  a  velvet  desert.  When  she  climbed  around  the  rock  where  they  were  resting,  she  saw  a  field  cut  in  furrows  as  thin  as  pencil  marks,  dotted  with  Dogon  farmers.  He  rolled  over  and  grabbed  her  ankles,  whispering,  &quot;Come  back,  you  fool.  The  Dogons  will  see  you.  We  are  on  sacred  ground!&quot;  She  edged  back  against  the  wall.  &quot;Don't  grab  me,&quot;  she  said,  whispering  back  despite  herself.  &quot;I  am  older  than  you.  Respect  me.&quot;  &quot;The  dead  are  older  than  you.  Respect  them.&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.&quot;  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  he  mimicked  in  English.  She  lowered  herself  into  a  sitting  posi-  tion,  keeping  her  back  to  the  stone.  For  the  first  time  it  occurred  to  her  that  they  wouldn't  be  able  to  get  back  down  the  cliff  before  nightfall.  Her  hand  played  with  the  cap  of  the  canteen,  twisting  it  back  and  forth.  &quot;I'm  going  into  the  cave,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  may  follow  me  if  you  so  desire.  In  the  case  of  catastrophe,  you  are  not  my  " b"responsibility.  I'm  just  informing  you.  556e6974656420537461746573ns  like  to  know  these  things  beforehand.&quot;  &quot;Jaraffe,  we  have  to  spend  the  night  up  here.  You  told  me  we  could  make  the  climb  in  one  day.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  I  will  find  you  some  beautiful  earrings,  or  some  money.  But  if  you  are  complaining  I  won't  give  the  present  to  you.  Then  I  will  give  it  to  one  of  my  other  girlfriends,  or  perhaps  I'll  keep  it  for  myself.&quot;  She  ignored  the  girlfriend  reference.  &quot;We  need  water,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  am  going  on  my  secret  mission.&quot;  He  rolled  his  eyes  in  cool  mystery.  &quot;Are  you  coming?&quot;  HE  entrance  to  the  cave  was  blocked  by  a  boulder.  &quot;Otherwise,&quot;  Jaraffe  explained,  &quot;the  hyenas  would  eat  the  corpses.&quot;  They  stood  on  either  side  of  it  and  rolled  it  away.  Jaraffe  asked  for  Darren's  flashlight,  peering  over  her  shoulder  as  she  dug  in  her  pack  for  it.  He  switched  it  on,  dropped  to  his  hands  and  knees,  and  crawled  behind  a  scraggly  bush,  and,  after  a  second,  Darren  knelt  down.  She  followed  the  pink  soles  of  his  feet  into  the  tunnel,  slapping  her  hands  over  the  thin  edge  of  light  that  moved  behind  him.  She  could  smell  something  rancid,  like  a  rotting  steak.  Jaraffe  began  to  hum.  The  hum  reverberated  in  the  narrow  shaft,  sounding  in  her  bones  as  she  and  he  wound  down  into  the  belly  of  the  mountain.  Then  they  turned  the  last  corner,  and  Jaraffe  stood  up  and  moved  the  circle  of  light  around  the  room.  It  was  filled  with  human  skeletons.  They  were  stacked  from  the  floor  to  the  ceiling.  Some  of  them  were  seated  along  the  walls,  behind  urns  full  of  beads  and  trinkets.  The  flashlight  threw  quivering  strips  of  light  into  the  stark  eyeholes,  the  gaping  jaws,  and  the  thick  spaces  be-  tween  the  yellow  ribs.  They  stank.  Jaraffe  sang.  It  was  a  low,  mournful  tune,  full  of  strange  notes  and  nonsensi-  cal  words.  They  stood  beside  a  pile  of  corpses.  The  bottom  of  the  heap  was  nothing  but  dust,  and  the  human  bones  seemed  to  rise  out  of  this,  a  shoulder  pushing  up,  a  jaw  jutting  out,  a  broken  hand  digging  back  down  into  the  pow-  der.  In  the  middle  of  the  stack  the  skel-  etons  were  complete,  and  at  the  top,  near  the  ceiling,  scraps  of  faded  pegries  hung  off  the  bones.  It  was  as  though  the  corpses  on  top  had  grown  out  of  the  dead  lying  beneath  them.  It  was  as  though  Darren  and  Jaraffe,  panting  and  sweat-  ing,  had  rolled  off  the  top  of  the  heap,  obscenely  alive.  Jarafte  slid  behind  the  pile,  leaving  her  in  darkness.  She  heard  him  rattling  among  the  bones,  but  she  did  not  follow.  Once,  his  light  shot  across  the  room,  illu-  minating  a  skeleton  sitting  cross-legged  against  the  wall,  holding  an  urn  between  its  knees.  Inside  the  urn,  besides  beads  and  a  few  C.F.A.  coins,  there  was  a  rusted  can  opener.  She  felt  despair.  What  hand  was  cruel  enough  to  create  a  human  being,  a  sad  fool  who  could  see  his  end,  and  then  smash  him  to  dust?  The  light  was  dimming.  &quot;Jaraffe,  don't  burn  out  the  batteries,&quot;  she  called  softly,  and  the  sound  of  her  voicefrightened  her.  &quot;Out,  f  'arrive!&quot;  He  rummaged  noisily  in  the  pile  of  skeletons,  shaking  the  fin-  gers  on  the  hands,  the  toes  on  the  feet,  turning  the  heads  this  way  and  that.  His  hum  was  high,  loud,  and  uncertain.  At  last  he  scurried  back  to  her.  &quot;Come!  Hurry!&quot;  He  dropped  down  on  all  fours  and  sped  out  of  the  cavern  and  up  the  shaft.  Darren  followed,  knocking  her  head  against  the  ceiling,  scraping  her  knees,  senseless  to  the  pain.  UTSIDE,  the  sun  fell  in  graceful  sur-  render  to  the  night,  throwing  out  its  last  miracles,  cloaking  the  jagged  edge  of  the  horizon  in  shadow.  Birds  sang  un-  earthly  notes,  brazenly  breaking  the  day's  long  silence.  In  the  dying  sun,  Jaraffe's  bare  arms  and  legs  turned  gold,  and  as  he  stood  on  the  ledge,  holding  the  skeleton  of  a  human  hand  like  a  scepter  over  the  Dogon  farmers  in  the  fields  below,  he  looked  like  a  god.  A  few  farmers  still  bent  over  their  short,  primitive  hoes,  but  most  of  them  had  thrown  the  shafts  over  their  shoul-  ders  and  were  walking  toward  the  moun-  tain.  Their  villages  were  built  so  cleverly  into  the  sides  of  the  cliffs  that  one  could  walk  right  by  them  and  never  spot  a  hu-  man  dwelling.  Like  the  birds,  the  farmers  had  begun  to  sing  out  to  each  other.  &quot;Forgive  me  for  calling  you  a  liar  this  morning,&quot;  Darren  said.  &quot;I'm  glad  that  you're  my  guide.&quot;  Jaraffe  turned  his  head  to  hide  the  frank  pleasure  on  his  face.  &quot;This  is  the  cave  where  we  will  sleep  tonight,&quot;  he  said,  motioning  to  an  over-  hanging  rock.  &quot;I  hope  it  pleases  you.&quot;  She  crawled  inside.  The  ceiling  was  so  low  that  she  couldn't  stand  up,  but  the  floor  was  large  enough  for  the  two  of     " b"  them  to  stretch  out  when  they  slept.  A  hollow  in  the  back  wall  led  to  other  pas-  sages  that  were  too  dark  to  see.  &quot;Jaraffe,&quot;  she  called,  stepping  out  onto  the  ledge,  &quot;I  think  there  are  too  many  openings;  something  could  come  .  ..&quot;  She  stopped.  He  had  opened  her  pack.  The  camera  hung  around  his  neck,  and  he  was  rubbing  a  stick  of  deodorant  along  his  face.  His  nostrils  flared  delicately  as  he  sniffed  the  scent.  She  snatched  the  deodorant  out  of  his  hand.  &quot;You  do  not  ever  open  my  pack  without  my  permission!&quot;  He  hunched  his  shoulders  together  and  then  lifted  his  chin.  &quot;I  don't  care.  Mosquitoes  don't  bite  Africans  when  they  can  bite  white  ladies.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  She  burst  into  laughter.  &quot;That's  not  mosquito  repellent.  That's  deodorant;  it  goes  under  your  arms.  Oh,  never  mind.&quot;  She  pulled  the  camera  off  his  neck  and  tried  to  take  his  picture,  but  he  turned  his  back  to  her.  &quot;You  don't  have  anything  good  to  eat  in  your  pack,&quot;  he  said,  grumbling.  &quot;The  other  556e6974656420537461746573ns  had  chocolate,  and  macaroni-and-cheese.  You  don't  even  have  a  stove.&quot;  &quot;You  aren't  required  toeat  withme.&quot;  As  she  knelt  beside  him,  putting  the  items  back  into  the  pack,  she  smelled  the  deodorant  on  his  face  and  chuckled.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Jaraffe.  It's  just  that  it's  funny  to  556e6974656420537461746573ns.&quot;  With  her  army  knife,  he  cut  astring  from  her  roll  of  twine  and  tied  the  skel-  eton  hand  around  his  neck.  &quot;The  other  556e6974656420537461746573ns  had  Kool-Aid  as  well.  Grape.&quot;  He  held  up  the  fruit  she  had  bought  in  the  market  and  looked  at  it  with  disgust  before  he  cut  off  the  top.  &quot;Beggar's  food,&quot;  he  snorted,  sliding  two  fingers  inside  the  hard  shell  and  popping  a  fleshy  seed  into  his  mouth.  &quot;Food  for  lepers.&quot;  &quot;Where's  the  water?&quot;  &quot;Africans  don't  need  water.&quot;  &quot;Well,  556e6974656420537461746573ns  do.&quot;  She  turned  up  the  canteen  he  had  nearly  emptied.  &quot;556e6974656420537461746573ns  carry  extra  batteries,&quot;  he  said.  She  tried  to  turn  the  flashlight  on;  the  batteries  were  dead.  He  smiled  and  handed  her  the  fruit.  The  sweet  and  sour  seeds  puckered  her  lips  and  burned  her  stomach,  but  the  juice  soothed  her  thirst.  He  laughed  at  her  grimaces.  &quot;Are  you  cold?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Africans  don't  get  cold.&quot;  She  tossed  a  sweater  at  his  head  and  carried  her  own  warm  clothes  toward  the  cave  to  change.  When  she  looked  back,  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  26,1993  he  was  smelling  the  sweater,  running  his  fingers  over  the  cashmere  and  sliding  it  along  his  cheek.Inside  the  cave,  some-  thing  rustled.  Wind?  She  couldn't  make  herself  crawl  inside.  With  her  back  turned  to  Jaraffe,  she  changed  her  clothes  and  returned  to  sit  beside  him.  Black  curls  fell  across  his  forehead,  and  his  eyes  gleamed  yellow  in  the  falling  darkness.  The  sweater  swallowed  him.  The  cuffs  flapped  below  his  hands  as  he  crossed  his  arms  and  commented,  &quot;Your  body  is  very  beautiful,  but  I  find  your  derri\xc3\xa9re  too  small.&quot;  &quot;Shut  up,  Jaraffe.&quot;  &quot;I  see  that  you  are  frightened  to  go  in  our  cave,  or  perhaps  you  have  fallen  in  love  with  me.&quot;  The  muscles  in  her  back  tensed.  &quot;You?  You  are  a  child.&quot;  His  face  stiffened  in  humiliation.  He  began  to  hum.  The  stars  came  out  in  rapid  succes-  sion,  crowding  the  huge  black  sky  until  they  nearly  touched  each  other.  She  lay  on  her  back  looking  up  for  Sirius,  the  great  star  of  the  Dogons.  When  she  gazed  too  long  at  the  sky,  she  lost  all  sense  of  direction  and  had  to  press  her  hands  flat  against  the  cold,  solid  rock.  Behind  her  the  gaping  mouth  of  the  cave  waited,  and  she  dreaded  it.  The  boy  seemed  a  stranger  to  her  now,  chant-  ing  his  lonely,  foreign  hymns,  accompa-  nying  the  one  bird  that  remained  awake.  The  birdcall  was  like  nothing  she  had  ever  heard.  It  wasn't  a  screech  or  a  caw  or  the  notes  of  a  song  but  something  chill-  ing  and  abrupt,  like  the  screamof  a  woman.  &quot;Jaraffe,  what  is  that  bird?&quot;  &quot;There  is  no  bird.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  listen.  It  screams  like  a  woman.&quot;  It  screamed  then,  louder  than  before.  &quot;That  one.&quot;  &quot;That'sa  hyena.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  the  hyena?&quot;  &quot;It's  here.&quot;  The  scream  came  again,  and  her  heart  pounded.  &quot;She  smells  your  fear,&quot;  he  added  reproachfully.  &quot;Aren't  you  afraid?&quot;  &quot;I  am  the  son  of  a  magician,  do  you  forget  so  quickly?  I  went  into  the  sacred  Dogon  grave  and  took  my  talisman.&quot;  He  rattled  the  fingers  on  the  skeleton  hand.  &quot;The  hyena  is  afraid  of  me.&quot;  &quot;What  happens  if  the  hyena  comes  into  the  cave  while  we  are  sleeping?&quot;  She  heard  him  yawn.  A  bank  of  clouds  rolled  across  the  sky,  and  the  stars  blinked  out,  one  by  one,  like  the  lights  going  off  in  a  house.  " b"&quot;You  aren't  earning  your  keep  as  a  guide,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Ha!  Ha,  ha.  I  am  a  child,  remember?  I  am  a  child  when  Madame  decides  that  I  am  to  be  a  child.  Now  Madame  is  afraid  and  needs  a  man.  Am  I  to  bea  man  now?&quot;  He  reached  for  her  breast,  laughing  when  she  knocked  his  hand  away.  &quot;A  child,  then.  Well,  the  child  is  going  to  bed.  Sweet  dreams,  Madame.&quot;  He  moved  away.  She  lay  on  her  back  looking  up  at  the  sky  until  the  last  star  blinked  out.  Then  it  was  terribly  dark,  and  cold.  Every  sound-the  rustle  of  weeds,  the  roll  of  gravel,  the  rasping  of  her  own  breath-was  magni-  fied  until  her  nerves  were  taut  with  fear.  She  saw  the  empty  stares  of  the  skeletons.  When  the  hyena  screamed  again,  she  jumped  up  and  ran  to  the  mouth  of  the  cave.  &quot;Jaraffe?&quot;  He  did  not  answer.  She  leaned  down  and  pushed  her  head  through  the  opening,  blinking  in  the  darkness.  &quot;I'm  not  coming  in  until  you  answer  me.&quot;  Suddenly,  something  swished  behind  her.  With  a  thud,  the  animal  landed  on  her  back.  She  screamed.  &quot;Waa!&quot;  Jaraffe  cried,  rolling  off  her  back,  doubled  over  in  laughter.  He  leaped  about  her,  pulling  at  his  hair,  rolling  his  eyes,  crying  out  in  sharp  female  wails.  &quot;Waa!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Oh,  oh,  help  me!  Where  is  my  big,  strong,  handsome  guide?&quot;  With  her  heart  still  knocking  in  her  chest,  she  swung  her  fist  at  him,  but  he  ducked  it  like  a  boxer.  &quot;Damn  you!&quot;  she  yelled.  He  shrieked-a  scared,  mean  laugh.  She  lunged  for  him  and  caught  hold  of  his  skinny  arm,  but  he  slipped  out  of  her  grasp.  For  a  moment  they  stood  facing  each  other  in  the  dark,  panting,  and  then  she  hissed,  &quot;I  despise  you.&quot;  She  began  to  sob  in  broken  screams  that  scraped  her  throat  raw,  a  horrible,  lonely  sound.  She  covered  her  mouth,  choking  in  the  effort  to  stop  the  noise.  She  felt  his  presence  somewhere  in  front  of  her,  small  and  no  longer  fierce,  and  she  crawled  into  the  cave.  She  made  a  thin  pallet  from  the  rest  of  the  clothes  in  her  pack  and  lay  down,  first  on  her  back,  then  on  her  stomach.  Then  she  rolled  over  on  her  back  again.  Each  lump  in  the  rock  made  a  distinct  stab  into  her  flesh.  She  began  to  wonder  about  Jaraffe,  and  to  want  him  with  her,  if  only  to  slap  him.  A  few  minutes  later,  he  scooted  into  the  cave.  &quot;And  where  is  my  bed?&quot;  he  de-  manded.  She  remained  silent.  &quot;You  are  angry  with  me.&quot;  He  stretched  out  beside  her  on  the  hard  floor  and  pushed  her  arm.  &quot;Say  something,  Darren,  my  dear  friend  Darren.&quot;  When  she  rolled  away  from  him,  he  patted  her  head  as  if  she  were  a  baby.  &quot;You  were  crying,  and  I  did  not  help  you.  Now  I  have  scared  you.  You  are  so  good  to  me,  giving  me  food  and  water  and  this  sweater.  I  do  not  even  like  grape  Kool-Aid  and  macaroni-and-  cheese  and  chocolate-well,  maybe  chocolate.  I  like  the  sweater;  it  keeps  me  warm  and  smells  very  nice.&quot;  He  gave  a  loud,  ap-  preciative  sniff.  &quot;You  annoy  me.&quot;  &quot;This  is  true.  I  am  an-  noying  and  rude  and  bad.  I  am  ugly.&quot;  He  waited  for  her  to  contra-  dict  this  last  statement,  and  when  she  did  not  he  continued.  &quot;Many  people  share  your  opinion.  It  is  all  true.&quot;  He  let  his  voice  become  pitiful.  &quot;Surely  I  will  burn  in  hell.  Or  Allah  will  find  some  way  to  punish  me,  so  that  I  never  forget  my  sins  against  you  and  am  always  ashamed.&quot;  Despite  herself,  she  spoke.  &quot;When  I  first  met  you,  last  night,  I  thought,  Here  is  a  boy  different  from  all  the  other  little  bandits  in  Africa.  Here  is  a  serious  boy.  Now  I  see  that  I  was  mistaken.  You  are  just  like  all  the  other  scoundrels  in  the  street.&quot;  &quot;My  remorse  is  more  enormous  than  the  sky.&quot;  &quot;You  are  not  sincere.&quot;  &quot;This  is  true.  I  am  sorry.  Will  you  for-  give  me?&quot;  She  tossed  him  the  roll  of  pants  and  shirts  that  had  been  her  pillow  and  closed  her  eyes.  Noisily,  he  made  his  bed  beside  her  and  went  on  with  his  apology.  His  voice  purred  against  the  cold,  black  walls.  He  spoke  nonsense.  At  last,  he  lay  down  against  her  back,  throwing  an  arm  around  her  neck  and  sticking  his  cold  feet  between  her  calves.  &quot;I  don't  like  that,  Jaraffe.  Stop  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  any  socks.  My  feet  are  cold.&quot;  &quot;You  can  take  some  socks  out  of  my  pack.&quot;  She  listened  as  he  rummaged  through  her  things,  mumbling  to  himself  in  various  tongues,  and  then  she  felt  him  once  again  press  his  small,  hard  body  against  her  back.  When  his  arm  circled  her  neck,  the  skeleton  hand,  still  tied  around  his  neck,  cut  between  her  shoul-  der  blades.  &quot;You  will  take  me  with  you  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  I  will  go  to  medical   " b"school  and  become  a  great  surgeon.  .  .  .&quot;  he  murmured  sleepily  in  her  ear.  &quot;We  will  get  married  .  ..  and  have  a  big  house  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED];  She  fell  into  light  sleep  nettled  with  nightmares,  and  awoke  strangling  in  his  skinny  arms,  her  face  locked  against  his  cheek.  His  breath  shot  out  in  hard,  quick  bursts,  and  his  heart,  racing  against  her  own,  knocked  on  her  chest.  Above  them,  the  hyena's  scream  tangled  with  the  an-  guished  shrieking  of  another  animal.  The  beasts  thrashed  and  rolled  on  the  roof  of  the  cave,  knocking  pebbles  and  clumpsof  dirt  from  its  ceiling.  Jaraffe's  arms  gripped  her  like  thin  iron  rods.  His  heart  was  banging  so  hard  in  his  chest  that  she  thought  he  would  explode.  She  hugged  the  clinging  boy  tighter  against  her,  hiding  her  face  in  his  hair,  her  mind  clamped  tight  on  the  will  to  live.  For  a  long  time,  they  lay  in  their  rigid  embrace,  listening  to  the  hyena  chew  its  shrieking  victim.  The  boy's  glowing  yellow  eyes  made  the  only  light  in  the  cave.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  JHEN  Darren  awoke,  Jaraffe  was  gone.  He  had  taken  her  camera  and  her  hat  with  him.  The  leather  purse  hanging  around  her  neck  was  flat  and  empty.  Even  her  passport  was  gone.  &quot;Bastard!&quot;  she  screamed  out  over  the  desert.  &quot;Thief&quot;  She  threw  a  rock  over  the  side  of  the  cliff,  and  then  another,  screaming  as  tears  ran  down  her  cheeks.  Jaraffe  had  robbed  her.  She  didn't  want  to  climb  back  down  into  the  world,  not  ever,  but  Jaraffe  had  drunk  all  of  her  wa-  ter,  and  her  tongue  was  swollen  with  thirst.  She  shouldered  the  pack  and  be-  gan  to  back  slowly  down  the  cliff.  Y  nightfall  Darren  was  back  at  the  Grand  Hotel  de  Mali.  Jaraffe's  mother  stood  in  the  doorway  of  the  bar,  watching  her  stagger,  hatless,  dirty,  ragged,  across  the  courtyard.  Silently,  the  hotelkeeper  went  behind  the  bar  and  handed  Darren  a  beer.  Then,  without  moving  a  muscle  on  her  face,  she  wet  a  towel,  and,  leaning  forward,  roughly  scrubbed  Darren's  face  and  hands.  Darren  stood  still,  in  shock;  then  she  sat  down  at  the  table  and  ate  the  plate  of  macaroni  and  tough,  greasy  meat  the  woman  brought  to  her.  When  she  pushed  her  plate  back  she  saw  the  pass-  port  under  it.  &quot;They're  all  cunning,&quot;  she  said  softly,  and  pushed  the  small  blue  book  into  her  bra.  Then  she  waited  for  Jaraffe.  While  she  waited  she  drank  beer,  and  each  time  she  took  a  fresh  bottle  of  Gazelle  from  Jaraffe's  mother,  she  felt  a  new  surge  of  power.  I'll  kill  him,  she  thought.  Around  ten  o'clock  Jaraffe  sauntered  into  the  bar,  wearing  a  new  white  suit  and  a  shirt  the  color  of  lemons.  Darren's  brown  felt  hat  was  tilted  at  a  rakish  angle  on  his  head.  A  cigarette  dangled  from  his  lips.  After  a  brief  moment  when  it  looked  as  though  he  might  run  back  out  the  door,  he  flashed  his  bestgrin  and  said,  &quot;Darren,  ma  cherie,  at  last  I  find  you,  oh,  at  last!&quot;  She  waited.  She  let  him  swagger  to  her.  As  he  bent  down  to  touch  his  lips  to  her  cheek  in  the  French  manner,  she  smelled  alcohol  and  cheap  perfume.  He  was  saying,  &quot;Why  did  you  worry  me  like  this?  I  thought  you  were  lost  forever,&quot;  and  leaning  forward  to  kiss  her  other  cheek  when  she  grabbed  his  neck.  She  pressed  her  fingers  into  the  soft  skin,  dig-  ging  them  between  the  tendons,  and  shook  him  until  herhat  fell  off  his  head.  His  strangled  cries  filled  the  room.  &quot;Mama!&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;Help  me!&quot;  His  mother  came  and  stood  silently  before  them.  &quot;Help!&quot;  cried  Jaraffe,  and  the  gendarme  ran  out  from  the  back  room  buckling  his  pants.  Then  the  door-  way  filled  with  whores  and  men,  shout-  ing  and  pushing  against  each  other  to  get  into  the  room.  &quot;He  stole  my  money!&quot;  Darren  yelled.  &quot;I  did  not.  This  woman  hired  me  to  be  her  guide.  I  took  her  into  the  cliffs,  as  she  asked  me  to,  and  then  she  paid  me  and  told  me  to  go.  I  gave  the  money  to  my  mother,  who  needs  it  to  take  care  of  my  poor  father.&quot;  The  crowd  pressed  noisily  into  the  room  and  around  Darren.  One  of  the  whorespushed  her  painted  face  down  close  and  whispered,  &quot;He'sa  thief,  that  one.&quot;  Darren  felt  the  prostitute's  long  nails  resting  briefly  on  her  arm.  Jaraffe's  mother  stared  straight  at  the  wall.  The  gendarme  was  looking  into  Darren's  eyes.  &quot;I  will  help  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  laid  his  broad  hand  on  her  shoulder.  &quot;Have  confidence  in  me.&quot;  His  hand  moved  slowly  upward  until  his  fingers  rested  in  her  hair.  She  shook  it  off  wea-  rily.  &quot;You  are  an  educated  woman,  eh?  You  know  many  things,  some  languages?  You  know  perhaps  how  to  drive  a  car?  You  know  how  to  work  a  computer?  Many,  many  things  live  in  this  head.&quot;  He  rolledhis  hand  over  her  head  as  if  it  were  a  coconut.  &quot;Your  head  is  no  good  here,  eh?&quot;  He  picked  the  hat  off  the  floor  and  pushed  it  gently  down  over  her  ears,  as  if  to  stop  her  from  thinking,  and  then  snapped  his  fingers  at  Jaraffe's  mother.  The  woman  brought  two  beers;  then,  from  inside  her  bra,  she  took  a  roll  of  soft  bills  and  laid  them  silently  before  Darren.  Jarafte  swaggered  over  and  set  down  her  camera.  Darren  waited  a  moment  to  see  if  the  gendarme  meant  to  demand  her  permit.  The  man  grinned  at  her,  then  turned  away  anddrank  up,  and  she  stuffed  the  camera  into  her  bag.  In  the  morning,  she  took  a  jitney  back  to  Bamako,  and  all  along  the  way  young  boys  begged  to  guide  her.  "