  TAM-O-SHANTER  HE  CHILDREN'S  HOSPITAL  was  cheery  enough,  thought  Gor-  don-as  far  as  hospitals  went.  Still,  there  was  no  way  they  could  get  rid  of  that  antiseptic  smell,  and  the  alien  trappings  of  childhood  irritated  him  and  made  him  uncomfortable.  High  voices,  pop  music,  bright  murals  of  cartoon  creatures  that  he  didn't  recognize:  tea-  pots  with  dotty  faces?  Ogling  crabs  and  tuna  fish?  Medical  apparatus  lined  the  chill,  windowless  corridors,  which  ech-  oed  like  the  corridors  of  a  ship  in  deep  space.  A  young  nurse,  young  enough  to  be  his  granddaughter-maybe  a  doctor  she  was,  with  the  trousers  and  the  stethoscope;  he  had  never  got  used  to  lady  doctors-walked  humming  past  him,  a  bouquet  of  lollipops  blooming  from  the  breast  pocket  of  her  white  coat.  The  first  film  he'd  ever  been  in,  half  a  century  before-&quot;Our  Mutual  Friend,&quot;  Joan  Fontaine,  Larry  Olivier,  1936-  there  had  been  a  scene  in  a  children's  hospital.  Gordon  was  seven  years  old,  an  extra,  lying  in  an  iron  bed  on  a  set  in  Twickenham  with  black  circles  painted  under  his  eyes.  He  and  Dolores  had  stayed  up  late  to  watch  it  on  television  about  six  months  ago.  Sitting  there  in  the  curtained  sunroom  with  his  decaf  coffee  and  his  low-salt  popcorn,  and  see-  ing  the  little  face-plump  and  healthy  even  under  the  makeup-which  had  somehow,  unbelievably,  once  been  his  own,  all  he  could  remember  was  how  he  had  stealthily  attempted  to  flatten  a  wad  of  chewing  gum  against  the  roof  of  his  mouth  as  the  arc  lights  blazed  red  through  his  closed  eyelids.  Later,  be-  tween  takes,  he'd  watched  some  of  the  older  kids  pretend  to  get  drunk  off  the  dregs  of  a  bottle  of  Scotch  that  they  said  they'd  stolen  from  Miss  Fontaine  but  that  actually  had  come  from  the  makeup  man;  he  and  a  girl  his  own  age,  annoyed  at  being  excluded,  had  turned  their  at-  tention  to  pinching  a  smaller  boy  until  he  cried.  It  was  to  be  the  most  presti-  gious  film  Gordon  would  appear  inin  his  entire  career,  though  he  would  not  become  aware  of  this  for  another  twenty  years  or  so.  And  it  was  afine  film;  it  BY  DONNA  TARTT  stood  up,  even  now.  Alec  Guinness  had  done  an  excellent  job  as  the  old  Jew.  The  garish  cartoon  faces  on  the  wall-green-armored  space  creatures,  with  slitted  bandit  kerchiefs  tied  around  their  eyes-goggled  down  at  him;  with  a  sinking  feeling,  he  became  aware  of  the  first,  timorous  lurch  of  the  now  familiar  nausea.  Fried  eggs  didn't  sit  so  well  with  the  roentgens.  They'd  tasted  good  in  the  coffee  shop  but  he'd  known  he'd  be  sorry  later.  He'd  been  in  the  States  for  fifty  years,  had  almost  completely  lost  his  accent,  though  even  when  he  was  a  kid  it  had  all  been  largely  phony,  all  those  Geordie  MacTavish  phrases  like  &quot;wee  braw  lassie&quot;  and  &quot;och  the  noo.&quot;  His  real  name  was  Gordon  Burns,  but  in  the  pictures  he'd  been  Geordie  MacTavish  for  six  years.  Geordie  MacTavish  the  Highland  Lad:  Geordie  rescuinghurt  animals,  Geordie  breaking  up  smugglers'  rings  and  fighting  the  Nazis,  Geordie  sent  away  to  public  school.  Twelve  years  old  and  skipping  around  in  a  bloody  kilt  like  Bonnie  Prince  Charlie,  sneaking  smokes  between  takes  with  the  cameramen.  Then  the  contract  with  Paramount,  bit  parts  in  costume  dramas.  He  hadn't  been  in  a  film  in  thirty-five  years.  For  the  past  thirty,  he'd  lived  in  Burbank  with  Dolores,  in  the  same  little  pink  stucco  bungalow  they'd  bought  when  they  were  newlyweds,  working  on  his  golf  game  and  doing  public  relations  for  one  of  the  big  production  companies.  He'd  never  been  all  that  fond  of  P.R.,  had  never  been  particularly  crazy  about  his  colleagues  or  the  work  that  he  did,  but  since  he'd  had  to  retire  (it  had  got  to  be  too  much  for  him,  he  tired  so  easily,  he  just  couldn't  do  it  anymore),  he  missed  it  desperately.  Away  from  the  ca-  maraderie  of  the  shared  routine,  the  office  acquaintances  had  begun  to  slip,  and  he  didn'tsee  too  many  other  people  on  a  regular  basis,  not  even  in  the  neigh-  borhood  where  he  had  livedfor  so  long-moving  vans  always  in  the  drive-  ways,  strange  dogs,  unfamiliar  kids,  faces  changing  all  the  time.  He  was  definitely  feeling  ill  now;he  wished  Dolores  were  withhim;  he  wanted  to  turn  around  and  goback  home.  But  how  could  you  refuse  a  re-  quest  like  this?  His  doctor  had  told  him  about  the  little  girl.  Down  at  the  Cancer  Center  in  San  Diego,  he'd  said,  a  bit  of  a  drive,  but  it  would  mean  so  much;  old  stills  of  Gordon  all  over  the  walls  and  even  a  Dandie  Dinmont  terriee-  named,  of  course,  [REDACTED],  after  Gor-  don's  sidekick  in  the  series.  Nine  years  old  and  dying  of  leukemia-some  chro-  mosomal  kind,  nearly  always  fatal.  &quot;She  watches  your  movies  beforeshe  goes  into  chemo,&quot;  the  doctor  had  said.  &quot;Says  Geordie's  never  afraid  and  neither  is  she.&quot;  What  a  rotten  world,  thought  Gordon.  He  wouldn't  mind  it  so  much  if  he  stood  any  chance  of  actually  cheering  the  poor  kid  up.  But  no  matter  how  their  parents  tried  to  prepare  them,  warned  them  again  and  again  that  the  films  had  been  made  fifty  years  before,  children  were  always  disappointed  not  to  see  an-  other  child.  Sometimes  the  younger  ones  didn't  understand.  They  asked  him  where  the  real  Geordie  was,  was  he  Geordie's  grandpa.  But  the  older  ones  could  scarcely  conceal  their  dismay.  He  would  never  forget  the  afternoon  several  years  before  when  a  little  girl-grand-  child  of  a  colleague  at  the  production  company-had  been  brought  to  meet  him.  Gamely,  he  had  pulled  out  the  old  red  tam-o'-shanter;  gamely,  he  had  answered  the  door,  bending  low  to  greet  the  little  girl  and  booming:  &quot;Aye,  then!  And  who's  this  wee  lassie?&quot;  He  would  never  forget  the  look  on  the  little  girl's  face.  It  was  a  look  of  shocked  recognition,  thenof  dawning  horror:  as  if  it  were  her  own  death  she  saw,  leaning  down  so  close  to  greet  her;  as  if  she  could  see  the  ruin  of  the  boy  he  had  been-destroyed  now,  lost  for-  ever-buried  deep  beneath  his  sagging  cheeks.  They  kept  the  air-conditioners  in  these  places  turned  up  far  too  high;  it  was  August  outside,  summer  blazing  away,  though  you'd  never  know  it  here.  A  towering  man  in  a  satin  tracksuit,  with  " b"freakishly  e  longated  limbs  and  the  placi  d  face  of  a  camel  (  Basketball  player?  thought  Gord  on,  startled;  h  as  to  be),  walk  ed  past,  carrying  a  tiny,  too  silen  t  child.  &quot;So  how  you  and  your  dad  li  ke  to  come  watch  the  guy  s  practice,  Slice?&quot;  he  was  saying  to  it.  Huge-eyed  and  staring,  the  child  cl  ung  to  his  long  neck  like  a  baby  marmoset,  tracking  Gordon  with  its  gaze  as  it  was  borne  down  the  gleaming  hall.  Even  the  bandages  on  its  tin  y  wrists  and  ankles  were  co  vered  with  cartoons.  For  a  moment,  he  felt  a  queer  s  harp  pang  of  what  was  almost  jealousy;  these  k  ids  were  too  little,  he  thought-they  didn't  under  stand  what  it  was  all  about,  th  ey  didn't  know  what  it  was  to  be  really  afraid.  He  hadn't  lived  like  a  l  ot  of  those  fellows  in  the  business;  those  guy  s  de-  served  what  they  got,  but  he'd  lived  a  quiet  life  and  a  sober  one-one  cocktail  before  dinne  r  ,  regular  exe  rcise,  early  to  bed.  Gave  up  the  c  igare  t  tes  at  thirty-  three,  be  fore  they  even  knew  how  bad  the  damned  things  were;  last  year,  at  sixty-two,  they'd  finally  c  aught  up.  T  he  crowning  inequity  in  a  life  f  ull  of  bad  deals.  He'd  joked  sourly  with  Dolores,  afte  r  they'd  put  him  on  the  stuf  f  that  made  him  lose  hi  s  dinner,  that  at  least  he  was  already  bald,  at  least  he  w  asn't  going  to  lose  his  hai  r.  He  paused  outs  ide  t  he  door.  It  stood  partly  open,  waiting  for  his  arrival.  He  fumble  d  in  his  coat  pocket  for  t  he  tam  and-glancing  at  the  g  host  of  his  reflec-  tion  i  llumined  in  the  chill  g  lass  of  a  re-  ception  area  opposite-placed  it  at  a  jaunt  y  ,  Geordie-like  angle  on  his  bald  head.  The  d  im  ou  tline  of  his  face  shocked  him.  Dentures;  flaccid  cheeks;  gh  astly  pouches  under  the  eyes.  His  nose  was  as  pinched  as  a  dead  man'  s.  Maybe  1f  ll  be  a  comfort  to  t  he  poor  kid  after  all,  he  thought  crossly.  To  see  what  she'd  have  to  look  forward  to,  to  die  and  t  o  know  wha  t  she's  not  missing.  He  nudged  th  e  door  open.  Instantly,  a  couple  of  anxious  parents-young,  kids  themselves,  really-rose  ner  vous  and  sm  iling  from  th  eir  bedside  chairs,  but  his  fleeting  impression  of  them  was  broken  by  a  welcoming  bark,  a  small  gray  blur  dashing  recklessly  to  meet  him:  B  obbie,  he  thought  incred  u  lousl  y  ,  [REDACTED],  and  was  knocked  nearly  breathless  by  a  wild,  mysterious  surge  of  joy.  He  glanced  up.  Everywhere  he  looked,  his  own  lost  face  stared  back  at  him,  from  rain-swept  piers  and  rocky  landscapes,  from  the  thundery  dark  of  the  artificial  skies:  magical,  defiant,  im-  possibly  young.  Then,  with  a  j  olt,  he  became  aware  of  the  little  girl.  She  was  sitting  up  in  bed,  propped  on  pillows  and  looking  at  him  attentively.  Tin  y  hands,  lik  e  bird  claws,  rested  on  the  edge  of  the  coverle  t;  her  face  was  mottled  with  broken  capillaries,  lurid  purple  blotches  the  color  of  grape  jelly;  s  he  was  as  ugly  and  as  fragile  as  a  new-hatched  chic  k.  But  there  was  a  composure,  a  s  weet  intelligence  about  t  he  eyes  that  regarded  him  calmly  from  the  grotesque  little  face;  on  her  hea  d,  as  bald  as  his  own,  was  perched  a  little  re  d  tam-o'-shanter.  [REDACTED]  ly  he  was  struck  hard,  dis  ori~  en  ted,  by  a  shudder  o  f  nause  a  :  barking  dog,  chorus  of  photographs,  t  he  stare  of  his  own  heartless  young  eyes.  The  little  girl-cruel  plastic  butt  erfly  ,  which  hid  the  needle  of  her  [REDACTED],  perched  bright  on  a[  ye  (f  $t.  R  \xe2\x80\x9cif  {}{Qt  dh  \xc2\xabMug  -[  91  the  t  ende  r  v  eins  of  he  r  wri  s  t-was  look-  ing  at  him  with  a  good-hu  mored,  im-  par  ti  al,  ope  n-  end  ed  welcome,  a  s  if  h  e  w  ere  a  stranger  whose  ey  es  she  had  chanced  to  meet  on  a  ra  ilr  oa  d  platform  while  she  w  as  s  canning  the  unfamiliar  faces  for  the  face  of  a  long-awaited  loved  one.  And  then  she  smiled,  as  though  he  were  th  e  best  thing  she'  d  ever  seen,  as  though  she'  d  been  waiting  for  him  all  her  l  ife  :  &quot;Hello  ,  Geordie,&quot;  she  said  in  a  high,  clear  voice.  The  little  dog  was  ma  d  w  ith  exc  i  tem  e  nt  it  spun  around  him,  barking  i  n  joyous  c  ircle  s  as  he  wen  t  a  cross  the  room  to  he  r,  his  arms  held  ou  t  to  h  er  tiny,  bruised  ar  ms,  which  she  stretched  out  to  gr  eet  him,  t  he  wings  of  th  e  stinging  blue  but-  te  rfl  y  brushi  ng  his  c  heek:  lover  to  lover,  ruin  t  o  ruin.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  he  said  to  her,  bend  -  ing  low,  i  n  a  voice  so  boyish  it  surprised  him,  &quot;  hell  o  ,  me  wee  Highland  lassie.&quot;  "