  FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  sentence  bobs  up  in  Merope's  mind  as  she  sits  over  a  plate  of  stewed  octopus  that  along  with  everyone  else's  dinner  will  be  paid  for  by  one  of  the  rich  men  at  the  table.  Rogue  phrases  have  been  invading  her  brain  ever  since  she  arrived  in  4974616c79  and  started  living  in  another  language:  she'll  be  in  a  meeting  with  her  boss  and  a  client,  chatting  away  in  Italian  about  headlines  and  body  copy  for  a  Sicilian  wine  or  the  latest  miracle  panty  liner,  when  a  few  words  in  En-  glish  will  flit  across  the  periphery  of  her  thoughts  like  a  film  subtitle  gone  wild.  Her  friend  Clay  with  typical  extrava-  gance  says  that  the  phrases  are  distress  signals  from  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  in  her  who  refuses  to  die,  but  Merope  hasnever  in-  tended  to  stop  being  556e6974656420537461746573n.  Her  grandparents  came  from  a  British  Carib-  bean  island  called  Montserrat,  and  her  earliest  continuous  memories  are  of  her  mother  and  father,  both  teachers,  wear-  ing  themselves  out  in  New  [REDACTED]  to  bestow  a  seamless  Yankee  childhood  on  their  two  ungrateful  daughters.  Such  im-  migrants'  gifts  always  come  with  strings  attached  that  appear  after  decades,  that  span  continents  and  oceans:  at  twenty-  eight  Merope  can  no  more  permanently  abandon  [REDACTED]  than  she  could  turn  away  from  the  exasperating  love  en-  graved  on  her  parents'  faces.  So  she  is  writing  copy  in  4974616c79  on  a  sort  of  indefi-  nite  sabbatical,  an  extension  of  her  role  as  family  grasshopper,  the  daughter  who  at  college  dabbled  in  every  arcane  do-it,  yourselffeminist  Third  World  folklorish  arts-and-crafts  kind  of  course  as  her  sis-  ter  Maia  ploughed  dutifully  along  to-  ward  Wharton;  who  no  soonergradu-  ated  than  went  off  to  [REDACTED]  to  live  for  a  mercifully  brief  spell  with  a  crazed  sculptor  from  whom  she  was  lucky  enough  to  catch  nothing  worse  than  nits.  With  family  and  lovers  Merope  learned  early  to  defend  her  own  behavior  by  adopting  the  role  of  ironic  spectator,  an  overperceptive  little  girl  observing  unsurprised  the  foibles  of  her  elders.  The  IT  began  with  rubber  bands.  The  silly  BY  ANDREA  LEE  role  suits  her:  she  is  small  with  large  un-  settling  eyes  and  nowadays  a  stylish  little  Eton  crop  of  slicked-back  straightened  hair.  4974616c79  suits  her,  too:  after  two  years  she  is  still  intrigued  by  its  tenacious  eighties-style  vulgarity  and  by  the  imme-  morial  Gothic  sense  of  doom  that  lies  like  a  medieval  stone  wall  beneath  the  flimsy  revelry  of  the  fashion  business.  The  sun  and  communal  warmth  of  the  Mezzogiorno  have  never  attracted  her  as  they  do  her  English  girlfriends;  she  likes  the  northern  Italian  fog-it  feels  like  Europe.  She  respects  as  well  the  pro-  found  indifference  of  the  city  to  its  visi-  tors  from  other  countries.  From  the  be-  ginning  she's  been  smart  enough  to  understand  that  the  more  energetically  one  sets  oneself  to  master  all  kinds  of  idiom  in  a  foreign  country,  the  sooner  one  uncovers  the  bare,  incontrovertible  fact  that  one  is  foreign.  The  linked  words  that  appear  and  flit  about  her  brain  seemingly  by  sheerest  accident,  like  bats  in  a  summer  cottage,  seem  to  Merope  to  be  a  logical  response  to  her  life  in  a  place  where  most  really  interest-  ing  things  are  hidden.  The  phrases  are  playful,  but  like  other  ephemera-  dreams,  advertisements,  slips  of  the  tongue-if  you  catch  and  examine  them,  they  offer  oblique  comment  on  events  at  hand.  This  dinner,  for  example-three  Ital-  ian  men  and  three  foreign  women  gath-  ered  without  affection  but  with  a  lot  of  noisy  laughter  on  a  May  evening  in  the  outdoor  half  of  a  restaurant  in  the  Brera  district.  It  did  in  a  certain  way  come  about  through  rubber  bands-the  over-  sized  pink  ones  that  provide  fruitful  re-  sistance  to  the  limbs  of  the  women  in  the  exercise  class  where  Merope  met  Clay  at  noon.  If  Merope  hadn't  been  dripping  with  sweat  and  demoralized  by  the  pain  she  would  have  said  no,  as  she  has  privately  resolved  to  do  whenever  Clay  gets  that  glint  in  her  eye  and  starts  talking  about  extremely  interesting,  ex-  tremely  successful  men.  The  exercise  class  they  attend  is  a  no-  torious  one  in  4974616c79:  it  is  dedicated  en-  tirely  to  buttocks,  and  is  even  called  sim-  ply  &quot;Buttocks&quot;-&quot;GZute?.&quot;  Rich  4974616c79ese  housewives,  foreign  businesswomen,  and  models  without  any  hips  to  speak  of  flock  to  the  Conture  Gym  to  beput  through  their  paces  by  a  Serbian  ex-  gymnast  named  Nadia,  in  an  atmo-  sphere  of  groaning  and  mass  agony  that  suggests  a  labor  ward  in  a  charity  clinic.  Merope  is  annoyed  at  herself  for  being  insecure  enough  to  attend-her  small,  lofty  Caribbean  backside,  after  all,  ranks  on  the  list  of  charms  she  sometimes  al-  lows  her  boyfriends  to  enumerate.  Yet,  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  at  midday,  she  finds  herself  there,  resentfully  squatted  on  a  springy  green  mat.  Sometimes,  looking  around  her,  she  draws  a  profes-  sional  bead  on  those  quivering  interna-  tional  ranks  of  fannies:  she  sees  them  in  a  freeze-frame,  anad  for  universal  femi-  nine  folly.  Her  friend  Clay,  on  the  other  hand,  adores  ass  class,  or  the  Butt  Club,  as  she  alternately  calls  it.  She  says  that  she  likes  her  perversions  to  work  for  her.  Clay  is  the  class  star,  the  class  clown.  In  a  glis-  tening  white  Avengers-style  unitard,  she  hoists  and  gyrates  her  legs  with  gusto,  lets  out  elemental  whoops  of  pain,  swaps  wisecracks  in  Italian  with  Nadia,  flops  about  exuberantly  in  her  bonds,  toss-  ingher  sweat-soaked  red  hair  like  a  cap-  tive  mermaid,  occasionally  sending  a  snapped  rubber  band  zinging  across  the  dance  floor.  Merope  sometimes  thinks  that  if  Clay  didn't  exist  it  would  be  nec-  essary  to  invent  her-at  least  for  her,  Merope's,  own  survival  on  the  frequent  days  when  4974616c79  appears  through  the  mist  as  a  dull  provincial  town.  A  case  in  point:  last  Sunday,  when  Merope  and  Clay  and  a  friend  of  Clay's,  a  [REDACTED]  blonde  who  works  at  Christie's,  were  taking  the  train  over  the  Swiss  border  to  Lugano  to  see  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Impressionist  show  at  the  Thyssen-Bornemisza,  Clay  got  up  to  go  to  the  toilet,  found  the  toilet  in  their  train  compartment  not  up  to  her  exact-  ing  standards,  went  down  to  the  next  car,  and  there  suddenly  found  herself  left  " b"behind  in  4974616c79  as  the  train  divided  in  two  at  the  border.  Merope  and  the  other  woman  sat  staring  dumbly  at  Clay's  beautiful  ostrich-skin  bag  on  the  seat  as  their  half  of  the  train  tootled  merrily  on  into  [REDACTED].  However,  after  a  few  minutes,  the  train  drew  to  a  halt  in  a  small  suburban  station  not  on  the  schedule  of  express  stops,  and  as  the  few  other  people  in  the  car  began  peering  curiously  out  of  the  window,  a  clanking,  clanging  sound  an-  nounced  the  arrival  of  another  train  be-  hind  them.  Merope  and  the  other  girl  jumped  up,  ran  to  the  end  platform  of  the  car,  and  saw  arriving  a  sort  of  yellow  toy  engine,  the  kind  used  for  track  re-  pair,  and  inside,  flanked  by  two  Italian  conductors  wearing  besotted  grins,  was  Clay,  red  hair  flying,  waving  like  the  Queen  Mother.  Clay  is  busy  these  days  ironing  out  the  last  wrinkles  of  a  complicated  di-  vorce  from  a  rich  4974616c79ese  who  manu-  factures  something  rarely  thought  of  but  essential,  like  tongue  depressors.  Then  she  is  immediately  getting  married  again,  to  a  Texan,  with  dazzling  blue  eyes  and  a  glibber  tongue  than  an  Irishman's,  who  won  Clay  by  falling  on  his  knees  and  proposing  in  front  of  an  intensely  interested  crowd  of  well-  dressed  drinkers  at  Baretto,  in  Via  Sant  Andrea.  Maybe  [REDACTED]  will  be  big  enough  for  her.  4974616c79,  thinks  Merope,  has  always  seemed  a  bit  confining  for  her  friend,  like  one  of  those  tight  couture  jackets  Clay  puts  on  to  go  to  the  office,  where  for  the  past  few  years  she  has  run  a  gift-buying  service  for  Italian  companies  who  want  to  shower  Bulgari  trinkets  on  crucial  Japanese.  Nowadays  she's  shutting  down  the  business,  talks  about  [REDACTED]  real  estate,  about  marketing  Italian  cellulite  creams  in  [REDACTED],  about  having  babies.  Merope  feels  a  predictable  resentment  toward  the  [REDACTED]  Lochinvar  who  rode  out  of  the  West  and  broke  up  the  eleven  months  ofhigh  times  she  and  Clay  had  been  enjoying  as  bachelorettes  in  4974616c79.  Now  she  would  have  to  start  a  real  life  in  4974616c79-unlikely,  this-or  return  home.  Her  weather  instincts  tell  her  that  her  friend's  engagement  means  that  she  herself  will  fall  in  love  again  soon:  another  partner  will  come  along  in  a  few  beats  to  become  es-  sential  as  salt,  to  put  her  through  changes,  perhaps  definitive  ones.  Clay  says  that  what  she  wants  most  in  the  world  to  see  before  she  leaves  for  Hous-  ton  is  Merope  settled  with  a  nice  man;  every  time  they  go  out  together,  she  pa-  rades  an  international  array  of  prospects,  as  if  Merope  were  a  particularly  picky  executive  client.  Merope  isn't  in  the  mood  yet  to  settle  down  with  a  nice  man;  in  fact  last  October,  when  she  met  Clay,  she  had  just  made  a  nice  man  move  out  of  the  apartment  they'd  shared  for  a  year  and  a  half  in  the  Navigli  district.  She'd  explained  this  to  Clay  in  the  first  five  minutes  they'd  started  talking,  at  a  party  in  the  so-called  Chinese  district,  near  Corso  Bramante.  &quot;He  was  awfully  dear.  He  was  Dutch:  sweet  in  the  way  those  northern  men  can  be  sweet.  Crazy  about  me  the  way  a  man  from  one  of  those  colonizing  countries  can  be  about  a  brown-skinned  woman.  A  photogra-  pher.  Never  fell  in  love  with  models,  and  he  cooked  fantastic  Indonesian  food.  But  he  was  making  me  wicked.&quot;  Clay,  shoehorned  into  a  Chanel  suit  of  an  otherworldly  pink,  stuck  herchin  into  her  empty  wineglass  and  puffed  out  her  cheeks.  Across  the  room  she'd     mANKsHt  79  looked  like  a  schoolgirl,  wandering  through  the  crowd  with  downcast  eyes,  smiling  at  some  naughty  thought  of  her  own;  up  close  her  beautiful  face  was  a  magnet  for  light,  might  have  beenJew-  ish  or  not,  might  have  been  thirtyish  or  not,  might  or  might  not  have  undergone  a  few  surgical  nips  and  tucks.  Merope  had  at  first  glance  classified  her,  errone-  ously,  as  &quot;Fashion&quot;-as  belonging  to  the  flamboyant  tribe  of  ageless  nomads  who  follow  the  collections  between  Europe  and  New  York  as  migrant  workers  fol-  low  the  harvests.  Clay,  however,  was  beyond  Fashion.  &quot;Because  hewas  too  good,&quot;  she  said  in  a  thoughtful  voice,  of  Merope's  Dutch  ex-  boyfriend.  Her  accent  in  English,  like  her  face,  was  hard  to  define:  a  few  Euro-  pean  aspirates  that  slid  unexpectedly  into  an  unabashed  556e6974656420537461746573n  flattening  of  vowels.  &quot;No  respectable  woman,&quot;  she  added,  &quot;should  have  to  put  up  with  that.&quot;  The  party  was  given  by  a  friend  of  Merope's-a  model  married  to  an  Ital-  ian  journalist,  who  occasionally  got  to-  gether  with  some  of  the  other  black  556e6974656420537461746573n  and  Caribbean  models  to  cook  barbecue.  The  models  got  raunchy  and  loud  on  these  occasions,  and  that  night  hung  intertwined  over  the  beer  and  ribs,  hooting  with  laughter,  forming  a  sort  of  gazebo  of  long,  beautiful  brown    " b"80  limbs,  while  a  bit  of  Fashion  and  a  few  artistic  4974616c79ese  buzzed  around  the  edges.  Merope  had  arrived  with  a  painter  who  dressed  only  in  red  and  kept  goats  in  his  city  garden-the  type  of  character  who  through  some  minor  law  of  the  universe  inevitably  appears  in  the  social  life  of  a  young  woman  who  has  just  broken  off  a  stable  relationship.  When  the  painter  left  her  side  and  went  off  to  flirt  vampirishly  with  everyone  else  in  the  room,  Merope  started  talking  with  Clay  and  instantly  realized,  with  the  sense  of  pure  recognition  one  has  in  falling  in  love,  or  in  the  much  rarer  and  more  subtle  process  of  identifying  a  new  friend,  that  this  was  the  person  she  had  been  looking  for  to  get  in  trouble  with  in  4974616c79.  Clay's  too  hastily  proffered  descrip-  tion  was  of  a  family  vaguely  highborn,  vaguely  European,  vaguely  Ameri-  can  (her  passport,  like  her  pithy  syn-  tax,  demonstrated  the  latter)  and  of  a  childhood  passed  in  a  sort  of  whistle-  stoptour  of  the  oddest  combination  of  places-Madrid;  Bristol,  [REDACTED];  Gainesville,  [REDACTED].  By  comparison,  Merope's  own  family  seemed  as  stable  as  Plymouth  Rock.  She  was  tickled:  Clay  gave  her  a  school's-out  feeling  after  her  model  friends,  who,  for  all  their  wild  looks  and  the  noise  they  made,  were  re-  ally  just  sweet,  hardworking,  secretly  stu-  dious  girls.  Over  that  fall  and  winter  she  and  Clay,  without  finding  out  much  more  about  each  other,  spent  a  lot  of  time  to-  gether,  chivying  a  string  of  Italian  and  foreign  suitors  and  behaving  like  overage  sorority  sisters.  They  hardly  ever  went  to  bed  with  anybody,  not  from  fear  of  AIDS  but  from  sheer  contrariness,  and  they  called  each  other  late  at  night  after  dates  and  giggled.  They  cock-teased.  Merope  wondered  occasionally  how  it  was  possible  for  fully  employed  grown  women  to  act  this  way:  did  adolescence,  like  malaria,  return  in  feverish  flash-  backs?  THE  same  thought  occurs  to  her  again  tonight  in  the  restaurant  garden,  because  she  can  feel  the  spring  getting  to  her.  After  a  cold  wet  April,  warm  weather  has  finally  arrived,  bring-  ing  wan  flourishes  of  magnolia  and  sul-  try  brown  evenings  heavy  with  industrial  exhaust.  The  hordes  of  Fashion  in  town  for  the  pr\xc3\xa9t-a-porter  collections  have  been  and  gone  like  passenger  pigeons,  leaving  in  their  wake  not  desolation  but  a  faint  genuine  scent  of  pleasure.  To-  night  there  is  even  a  full  moon:  coming  in  the  taxi  from  work,  she  caught  a  glimpse  of  it,  big  and  shockingly  red  as  a  setting  sun.  Moons  and  other  heavenly  personages  are  rare  in  4974616c79:  this  one  vanished  under  the  smog  by  the  time  she  reached  the  restaurant.  Now  between  the  potted  hedge  and  the  edges  of  the  big  white  umbrellas  overhead  she  sees  only  the  cobblestones  of  Piazza  del  Car-  mine,  a  twilit  church  fagade,  and  part  of  a  big  modern  sculpture  that  looks  like  a  Greek  torso  opened  for  autopsy.  Across  the  table,  Clay  is  looking  good  in  black.  The  man  to  Clay's  right  is  ob-  viously  impressed.  His  name  is  Claudio,  he  is  a  Roman  who  lives  half  the  time  in  4974616c79,  and  he  owns  shoe  factories  out  in  the  mists  beyond  Linate:  a  labyrin-  thine  artisanal  conglomerate  whose  products,  baptized  with  the  holy  names  " b" of  the  great  designers,  decorate  shop-  windows  upand  down  Via  Spiga  and  Via  Montenapoleone.  He's  been  making  not  awfully  discreet  pawing  motions  at  Clay  since  they  all  met  up  at  Baretto  at  eight-thirty.  He  is  touching  the  huge  gilt  buttons  of  her  jacket  with  feigned  pro-  fessional  interest,  and  her  hands  and  the  tip  of  her  nose  with  no  excuse  at  all,  and  Clay  is  laughing  and  talking  about  her  fianc\xc3\xa9  in  [REDACTED]  and  brushing  him  off  like  a  mosquito  or  maybe  not  even    brushing  him  off  but  playingabsent-  mindedly  withhim,  the  way  a  child  uses  a  few  light  taps  to  keep  a  balloon  danc-  ing  in  the  air.  The  other  men  at  the  table  are  de-  signed  along  the  same  lines  as  this  Claudio,  though  one  is  Venetian  and  the  other  a  true  4974616c79ese.  All  three  are  fortyish  men-about-town  whom  Merope  has  been  seeing  at  parties  for  the  last  two  years:  graying,  tanned,  with  the  beauty  that  profligate  Nature  be-  81  stows  on  Italian  males  northern  or  southern,  of  all  levels  of  intelligence  and  social  class.  They  are  dressed  in  magnifi-  cent  hybrid  fabrics  of  silk  and  wool,  and  their  faces  hold  the  faintly  wary  expres-  sion  of  rich  divorced  men.  Like  all  the  dinner  companions  Clay  has  provided  recently,  they  are  all  impos-  sible,  for  more  reasons  than  Merope  could  list  on  a  manuscript  the  length  of  the  Magna  Carta.  Without  having  been  out  with  them  before,  she  knows  from  experience  that  soon  they  will  begin  vy-  ing  with  each  other  to  pay  for  this  din-  ner,  will  get  up  and  pretend  to  visit  the  toilet  but  really  go  off  to  settle  things  with  the  headwaiter  or  to  discover  with  irritation  that  one  of  the  others  pretend-  ing  to  visit  the  toilet  has  gotten  there  be-  forehand.  When  it  has  been  revealed  that  someone  has  succeeded  in  paying,  the  other  men  will  groan  and  laughingly  take  to  task  the  beaming  victor,  who  has  managed  to  buy  the  contents  of  their  stomachs.  The  other  woman  at  the  table  is  Robin,  the  [REDACTED]  Christie's  blonde  from  the  train  incident.  She  is  pretty  but  borderline  anorexic,  with  a  disconcerting  habit  of  jerking  her  head  sharply  to  one  side  as  she  laughs.  Clay  uses  her  shame-  lessly  to  round  out  gatherings  where  an-  other  woman  is  wanted  who  won't  be  competition.  Merope  likes  her  but  pities  her  because  after  five  years  in  4974616c79  she  hasn't  yet  understood  the  mixture  of  playfulness  and  deep  conservatism  in  Italian  men  and  goes  from  one  dis-  astrous  love  affair  to  another.  Just  a  few  weeks  ago,  she  spent  a  night  shivering  in  a  car  in  front  of  a  house  where  her  latest  lover  was  dallying.  Now  she's  looking  hopefully  around,  as  if  she's  eager  to  get  burned  again.  On  the  right  side  of  Merope,  the  Ve-  netian,  Francesco,  is  recounting  some-  thing  that  happened  to  him  last  month:  a  girl  of  about  sixteen,  a  Polish  immi-  grant  who  had  been  in  the  country  only  a  few  months,  had  bluffed  her  way  in  tosee  him  in  the  offices  of  his  knit,  wear  business  and  without  preamble  pulled  off  her  shirt.  &quot;She  told  me  that  she'd  done  a  bit  of  lingerie  model-  ling-you  can  imagine  the  body-but  that  she  wasn't  making  enough  money,  and  she  proposed  for  me  to  keep  her.  Viewed  with  the  greatest  possible  objec-  tivity,  era  una  fica  pazzesca-she  was  an  amazing  piece  of  ass.  She  said  that  she  " b"  didn't  care  about  luxury,  that  she'd  ac-  cept  one  room  in  any  neighborhood,  that  she  didn't  dress  couture,  only  Gaultier  Junior,  and  that  she  rode  a  mo-  torbike,  so  that  her  overhead  costs  would  be  very  low.  She  used  that  expression:  overhead  costs.&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  did  you  do?&quot;  demands  Clay.  Francesco  pauses  to  scrape  a  mussel  from  its  shell,  and  then  glances  around  the  table  with  his  shrewd,  pale  Venetian  eyes.  He  seems  pleased  with  the  story  and  with  himself.  &quot;I  don't  like  complica-  tions,  so  I  kept  my  head  with  extreme  difficulty,  made  her  put  her  shirt  on,  and  sent  her  away.  And  lucky  for  her,  not  morally  but  practically,  because  a  week  ago  I  ran  into  her  at  the  gala  the  Social-  ists  gave  at  La  Scala-covered  with  jew-  els,  on  the  arm  of  old  Petralzo  the  rug  man,  who  must  be  seventy-five.&quot;  &quot;Lucky  girl,&quot;  says  Clay.  &quot;So  she  has  minimum  work  for  maximum  com-  pensation.&quot;  &quot;It's  an  inspiring  story,&quot;  Merope  says.  &quot;Even  ideologically.  When  you  think  of  her,  born  under  Polish  socialism,  pro-  gressing  to  the  Italian  brand-&quot;  A  waiter  dashes  up  and  shows  them  an  enormous  boiled  sea  bass,  lead-  colored  in  the  candlelight,  and  then  runs  off  to  bone  it.  Though  they  are  all  laughing,  the  story  about  the  Polish  girl  has  changed  the  atmosphere  of  the  group,  momentarily  causing  each  one  of  them  to  envision  the  candlelit  outdoor  restaurant  with  its  stylish  diners  as  a  temporary  and  unstable  oasis  of  safety,  an  illuminated  bubble  poised  at  the  murky  edges  of  the  chaos  going  on  not  far  enough  away  to  the  East:  the  Wall  toppled  and  strewn;  teen-age  Germans  nonchalantly  resuscitating  the  Third  Reich;  international  mafiosi  and  ex-  apparatchiks  making  pacts  in  the  shadow  of  the  Kremlin;  Croats  slicing  heads  off  Montenegrins;  Czech  whores  servicing  the  flights  between  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED];  dissolution  spilling  over  into  the  once  safe  and  prosperous  fields  of  West-  ern  Europe  in  the  form  of  refugee  hordes  from  every  tattered  state  on  earth.  Each  of  the  men  at  the  table  thinks  of  certain  investments  and  says  an  inward  prayer.  The  three  556e6974656420537461746573n  women  experience  a  brief,  simultaneous  thrill  of  empathy  with  that  coldhearted  young  girl,  as  foreign  as  they  are.  Subdued,  they  finish  off  two  bottles  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  5,  1993  of  Piedmontese  red  wine  and  eat  the  fish  with  thin  flat  salad  greens  called  barba  #  frate-&quot;Friar's  beard.&quot;  Merope  chats  with  the  man  on  her  left,  who  has  a  posh  4974616c79ese  accent  with  a  glottal  &quot;R&quot;  that  sounds  as  if  he's  constantly  clearing  his  throat.  His  name  is  Nicold,  and  he  agreeably  surprises  her  by  accepting  without  comment  the  fact  that  she  is  556e6974656420537461746573n  of  African-Caribbean  ances-  try-most  Italians  feel  obliged  to  ob-  serve  that  she  doesn't  look  556e6974656420537461746573n,  as  if  one  could-and  that  she  actually  works  in  advertising  rather  than  at  one  of  the  jobs  that  many  otherwise  intelli-  gent  people  in  4974616c79  consider  the  only  possibility  for  a  pretty  young  woman  with  skin  the  color  of  cedarwood:  run-  way  work,  or  shaking  her  behind  in  tele-  vision  ads  for  tropical  juice.  She  tells  him  that  at  work  she  has  set  herself  the  private  task  of  trying  to  change  attitudes  and  images,  a  generally  futile  ambition  in  a  small  Italian  agency  grateful  for  any  accounts  it  can  attract.  Italians  aren't  natural  racists,  she  ex-  plains,  not  like  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  but  they  tend  to  view  foreigners  in  a  series  of  absurd  roles  as  set  as  those  of  the  commedia  dellarte.  &quot;It's  funny,  really.  The  last  campaign  we  did  for  an  air-conditioner,  what  the  kids  in  the  creative  department  held  out  for  was  two  black  models  dressed  as  cannibals  carrying  the  air-  conditioner  slung  on  a  stick.  Cannibals,  can  you  imagine?  Bare  breasts,strings  of  teeth  around  their  necks,  little  grass  umbrellas  around  the  hips.  The  com-  pany  directors  loved  it.  I  screamed  and  yelled.&quot;  Nicolo  smiles.  &quot;They  must  love  yor.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I'm  somewhat  of  a  crown  of  thorns  for  them.  But  I  provide  comic  relief.&quot;  She  knows  this  Nicolo  by  sight;  she  has  seen  him  at  parties,  always  with  a  different  oversized,  underage  beauty  glued  to  his  flank.  He  has  even  gone  out  with  one  of  her  friends,  a  lanky  nineteen-year-old  from  Santo  Domingo  who  is  doing  a  lot  of  work  for  Armani  this  year.  &quot;Nicolo&quot;  she  thinks  of  as  a  young  name,  impetuous,  boyish,  ardent,  like  the  medieval  revolutionary  Cola  di  Rienzo,  but  this  Nicolo  is  no  boy.  He  has  a  head  of  bushy  graying  curls  and  weary,  protuberant  blue  Lombard  eyes  with-surprising  for  a  viveur-  an  expression  of  gentle,  lugubrious  sentimentality.  " b"FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  He  is  well  dressed  like  the  others,  but  his  clothes  seem  slightly  too  big,  giving  him  a  curious  orphaned  air  that  must,  thinks  Merope  unkindly,  be  the  secret  of  his  success  with  women.  That  and  his  money.  He  is  the  only  one  of  the  three  who  is  not  newly  rich:  his  family  has  professors  in  it,  and  a  famous  collec-  tion  of  Futurist  art,  and  people  say  he  keeps  up  the  textile  business  his  great-  grandfather  started  only  to  satisfy  his  taste  for  very  young  models.  (In  fact  his  eyes  glistened  mournfully  at  the  descrip-  tion  of  the  Polish  girl.)  It  is  said  that  he  falls  in  love  constantly,  with  untidy  results.  He  sits  and  talks  about  a  big  house  in  the  Engadin  [REDACTED]  where  his  seventy-  eight-year-old  mother  passes  the  winters  making  nutcake,  skiing,  hiking,  fighting  with  the  family  board  of  directors  via  phone  or  fax.  &quot;She  sounds  fantastic,&quot;  Merope  says.  She  tells  him  about  her  father's  mother,  Jazelle,  a  school  principal  with  a  taste  for  Plutarch  as  well  as  for  a  certain  type  of  hot  yellow-pepper  sauce-a  tall,  rigid,  iron-colored  woman  who  com-  manded  obedience  from  family  and  pu-  pils  in  a  whispering  deadly  Mont-  serratian  voice  that  both  awed  and  embarrassed  her  556e6974656420537461746573nized  grand-  children.  It's  just  an  impulse:  her  family  is  her  own  private  thing  that  she  doesn't  usually  talk  about  with  the  people  Clay  trots  out.  &quot;I  don't  understand  what  you're  doing  in  4974616c79,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Well,  I  have  to  see  theworld.  This  is  as  good  a  place  as  any,  maybe  better.&quot;  Nicolo  taps  the  base  of  his  wineglass  with  his  fingernail.  &quot;St.  Augustine  was  converted  in  a  garden  here.  I  think  that  that  was  probably  the  last  time  this  city  has  done  anyoneany  good.&quot;  &quot;I  wonder  where  the  garden  [REDACTED];  says  Merope.  Nicolo  laughs  and  says  it  was  a  child's  voice  that  spoke  to  Augustine  in  the  gar-  den,  and  that  he  is  thinking  at  the  mo-  ment  that  Merope  has  the  face  of  a  child  who  knows  too  much.  She  re-  minds  him,  he  says,  of  Veldzquez's  Infanta  Margarita.  This  is  a  nice  compli-  ment,  but  spoiled  by  being  said  in  a  self-  satisfied,  overly  proficient  manner  that  makes  it  clear  that  he  habitually  comes  up  with  artistic  comparisons  to  impress  his  very  young  models.  It  annoys  Merope.  She  sees  that  he  is  quite  inter-  ested,  and  this  is  puzzling,  since  she  is  not  at  all  his  type.  They  are  interrupted  from  across  the  table  by  Claudio  the  Roman  shoemaker,  who  has  heard  them  talking  about  the  mountains.In  between  bouts  of  flirting  outrageously  with  Clay,  he  starts  remi-  niscing  about  a  party  given  at  Champfer  in  the  sixties  by  a  spendthrift  cousin  of  Nicold's.  The  cousin  had  wanted  to  tent  a  forest  for  his  guests  to  dance  in  like  gnomes,  but  this  was  against  Swiss  law,  so  he  filled  a  tent  with  tall  potted  larches  specially  imported  from  Austria.  At  dawn  the  men,  a  black  phalanx  in  evening  dress,  had  descended  from  Corviglia  on  skis.  The  two  other  men  at  the  table  chime  in  to  exclaim  nostalgically  over  how  much  time  they  spent  in  dinner  jackets,  their  crowd  of  young  blades,  in  the  sixties.  They  were  so  stylish  they  never  wore  ski  clothes  even  on  ordinary  days,  but  skied  in  three-piece  suits,  the  wasp-waisted,  flare-trousered  sixties  kind,  with  a  high-collared  shirt  and  a  wide  tie  up  under  your  chin.  &quot;We  were  dandies,&quot;  sighs  Francesco.  Clay  says  that  they  are  still  dandies,  that  it  is  a  basic  instinct  of  the  Latin  male  to  decorate  himself.  But  are  they  still  up  to  snuff  physically,  she  asks  in  a  rhetorical  tone  that  makes  Robin  and  Merope  giggle.  Tossing  back  her  red  fringe,  she  says  she  doubts  it,  and  she  commands  without  further  ado  that  they  show  her  their  legs.  Clay  has  an  effect  on  men  like  a  pistol  held  to  the  back  of  the  neck:  all  three  of  them  at  the  table-fa-  thers  of  adult  children  and  heads  of  companies-rise  promptly  from  their  places,  considerably  surprising  the  wait-  ers  and  the  other  diners  in  the  restau-  rant,  and  line  up  like  naughty  schoolboys  in  front  of  Clay,  who,  with  a  Circean  smile,  has  swivelled  in  her  chair  to  sur-  vey  them.  They  pull  up  their  trousers  to  reveal  a  variety  of  knobby,  sock-covered  ankles  and  calves.  Clay  keeps  them  standing  there  a  second  longer  than  nec-  sale  83  essary  before  pronouncing  them  accept-  able  and  allowing  them  to  file  back  totheir  dinners.  &quot;But  you'll  have  to  work  on  that  musculature,  gentlemen!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;f=  WF  course  they  behave  this  way  be-  causewe're  foreigners,&quot;  Clay  tells  Merope  a  bit  later  in  the  ladies'  room.  Clay  has  a  frequently  voiced  conviction  that  Italian  men  view  foreign  women  as  escape  hatches,  vacations  from  the  im-  memorial  stress  of  life  with  Italian  women,  who  are  all  descendants  of  exi-  gent  Mediterranean  earth  goddesses.  &quot;Italians  are  just  intensified  versions  of  men  from  anywhere,&quot;  says  Merope.  &quot;The  real  mystery,  the  riddle  of  the  ages,  is  why  we  go  to  buttock  class  and  put  ourselves  through  severe  pain  for  their  benefit.  Look  at  them-those  bony  legs!&quot;  Merope  is  redoing  her  lips  with  a  tint  from  a  little  pottery  dish  her  ex-  boyfriend  brought  her  from  Marrakech.  Clay  has  left  the  toilet  door  open  to  talk  to  her  and  sits  with  her  black  skirt  hiked  up  and  her  tights  down,  her  chin  propped  on  her  hands  and  her  elbows  on  her  knees.  When  Clay  is  washing  her  hands,  they  start  talking  about  Claudio  the  shoemaker,  who,  as  Merope  accurately  observes,  has  been  making  passes  at  Clay  like  a  Roman  caf\xc3\xa9  waiter  with  a  school-  girl  on  a  junior  year  abroad.  Clay,  always  merciful  when  one  least  expects  it,  de-  clares  that  there  is  no  real  harm  in  poor  Claudio,  who  is  upset  about  having  less  money  than  his  friends  and  about  having  had  his  business  partner  hauled  offto  prison  last  month  as  a  result  of  the  gov-  ernment  bribery  scandal.  &quot;Well,  if  you'reso  sympathetic,  you  should  cure  him  of  that  behavior,&quot;  says  Merope,  dropping  the  Moroccan  dish  into  her  bag.  &quot;Why  don't  you  act  like  his  charm  has  caused  you  tolose  your  head,  and  grab  him  in  front  of  every-  body  and  kiss  him.  [REDACTED]  your  tongue  inhis  mouth.  That  would  scare  the  shit  out  of  him.  It  might  change  his  life.  At  the  very  least  it  would  teach  him  some  manners.&quot;  Clay  says  it  isn't  at  all  a  bad  idea,  and  when  they  are  back  at  the  table  she  actu-  ally  does  grab  Claudio  the  shoemaker  and  give  him  a  whammy  of  a  kiss-a  real  bodice  ripper,  as  she  describes  it  later.  She  doesn't  do  it  right  away  but  " b" waits  until  they've  had  dessert  and  small  cups  of  black  coffee  which  intrude  on  the  languid  meal  like  jolts  of  pure  adrenaline.  Merope  sees  Claudio  reach  out  for  the  twentieth  time  and  trail  his  fingers  down  Clay's  cheek  while  he  formulates  yet  another  outrageous  compliment,  and  she  watches  Clay  laugh,  turn  to  him,  grab  his  shoulders,  and  give  him  a  long,  extremely  kinetic  kiss.  They  all  stare,  and  Robin  from  Christie's  claps  her  thin  hands  spontaneously  like  a  child  at  the  circus  when  the  elephants  come  in.  Clay  lets  Claudio  go,  and  his  face  has  blushed  dark  as  a  bruise.  He  is  groping  for  an  ex-  pression.  The  rest  of  them  fol-  low  Robin  and  burst  into  ap-  plause,  because  there  is  nothing  else  to  do,  and  people  at  other  tables  turn  around  to  look.  &quot;Brava,  Clay!  That's  show-  ing  him,&quot;  calls  Francesco.  Clay  herself  is  pale,  but  she  has  lost  no  equilibrium  at  all.  She  takes  a  sip  of  mineral  wa-  ter.  &quot;That  was  possible,&quot;  she  says  evenly,  without  a  smile,  &quot;only  because  with  Claudio  there  could  mever  be  the  possi-  bility  of  anything  more.&quot;  Shrieks  of  laughter,  invocations  of  the  [REDACTED]  fianc\xc3\xa9,  loud  protests  from  the  men,  especially  from  Claudio  himself,  who  has  enough  of  the  Roman  genius  for  saving  face  to  cover  his  tracks-to  court  Clay  still  more  flamboyantly,  to  laugh  artlessly  at  himself.  But  the  atmosphere,  observes  Merope,  is  momentarily  murder-  ous;  at  least,  under  the  voices,  through  the  candlelight  diffused  beneath  the  white  umbrella,  travels  a  dire  reverberation  like  that  which  follows  the  first  bite  of  an  axe  into  a  tree  trunk.  She  herself  feels  half  angry  at  Clay  for  taking  her  at  her  word,  half  full  of  unwilling  admiration.  &quot;So  what  do  you  think,  precocious  child?&quot;  Nicold  asks  her  a  few  minutes  later,  when  Francesco  reveals  that  he  haspaid  the  bill,  and  they  all  get  up  to  leave.  &quot;That  precocious  children  come  to  bad  ends,&quot;  replies  Merope.  THE  six  of  them  take  two  cars  to  Pi-  azza  Sant'  Ambrogio  to  visit  An-  gela  and  Lucia,  a  pair  of  forty-year-old  twins  who  design  a  sportswear  line  for  Francesco.  These  sisters  with  first  names  &amp;l  f      it  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  5,  1993  like  chambermaids  are  in  fact  members  ofan  aboriginal  4974616c79ese  noble  family  whose  dark  history  of  mailed  fists  and  bloody  political  intrigues  dominates  me-  dieval  Lombard  chronicles.  The  twins  themselves,  leftover  scraps  of  a  dynasty,  are  small,  with  masses  of  streaked  hair  and  frail  chirping  voices  like  a  pair  of  crickets;  at  parties  they  dress  alike  to  annoy  their  friends.  Tonight  they  are  darting  around  in  red  and  yellow  bloomer  suits  in  Lucia's  apart-  ment,  which  adjoins  her  sister's  in  a  damp  sixteenth-century  palazzo  with  a  view  onto  the  church  of  Sant'Ambrogio.  The  two  sisters  boast  that  evenduring  their  marriages  and  love  affairs  they  have  rarely  spent  a  night  apart.  In  the  room  where  the  guests  are  gathered,  there  are  Man  Ray  photographs  leaning  against  the  baseboards,  couches  and  poufs  covered  in  sea-green  damask,  and  a  carved  Malaysian  four-  posterbed;  the  windows  look  down  into  a  leafy  wilderness  starred  with  white  blossom-the  kind  of  courtyard  Merope  had  at  first  been  surprised  to  find  behind  the  pitted,  smog-blackened  fagades  of  4974616c79ese  palazzi.  Merope  detaches  herself  from  Nicolo,  who  has  been  hovering  since  they  got  out  of  the  car,  and  goes  and  sits  down  on  a  wobbly  pouf  beside  a  hand-  some  Indian  designer  who  works  with  one  of  the  twins.  The  designer's  name  is  Nathaniel,  and  he  is  talking  emotionally  about  Cole  Porter  to  a  large,  round  En-  glishman  whom  Merope  remembers  chiefly  for  the  fact  that  in  the  summer  he  bounces  around  the  city  in  the  most  beautiful  white  linen  suits,  like  a  colonial  governor  on  holiday.  &quot;My  mother,&quot;  continues  Nathaniel,  &quot;used  to  sit  down  at  the  piano  at  sun-  rise  with  a  pitcher  of  cold  tea  beside  her  and  start  in  with  'Night  and  Day.'  It's  a  very  peculiar  sensation,  Cole  Porter  in  496e646961  at  dawn.&quot;  He  passes  one  hand  over  his  forehead  as  if  to  dispel  an  un-  bearable  memory  and  then  props  his  el-  bow  on  Merope's  shoulder.  &quot;Hello,  chum,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You  look  appetizing  tonight.&quot;  Merope  pushes  his  elbow  off  and  smiles.  She  likes  Nathaniel,  who  is  a  friend  of  her  boss,  Maria  Teresa.  He  " b"FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  asks  her  about  work,  and  she  tells  him  about  the  most  interesting  thing  she  is  doing  these  days,  which  is  a  free-lance  project  writing  scripts  for  a  video  series  on  the  fantasies  of  top  models.  &quot;Oho,&quot;  interjects  the  round  English-  man.  &quot;Well,  it's  not  as  hot  as  it  sounds.  These  are  the  kind  of  fantasies  most  women  have  at  the  age  of  eleven.  The  sex  is  all  submerged.  One  of  the  girls,  Russian,  really  gorgeous,  dreams  of  be-  ing  Catherine  the  Great-&quot;  &quot;I  don't  call  that  submerged,&quot;  protests  Nathaniel.  &quot;Think  of  her  and  the  horse.&quot;  Merope  tells  him  that  the  horse  is  a  myth  and  that  anyway  the  video  limits  itself  to  onion  domes  and  fur-edged  d\xc3\xa9colletage.  Then  she  describes  another  video,  in  which  the  model  fantasizes  about  being  a  Mafia  princess,  climbs  out  of  a  black  Mercedes  with  an  Uzi  in  her  hand  while  the  voice-over  observes  that  she  has  looks  to  kill  for.  The  two  men  giggle,  and  then  the  Englishman  asks  Merope  about  Ivo,  her  Dutch  ex-boyfriend.  When  she  says  that  she  left  him  almost  a  year  ago,  he  leans  toward  her  looking  simultaneously  las-  civious  and  avuncular  and  says,  &quot;I  hope  you  haven't  gone  over  to  the  wops.  My  child,&quot;  he  goes  on,  &quot;I  have  a  definite  pa-  ternal  concern  for  your  romantic  future.  Too  many  nice  girls  come  over  here  and  get  flummoxed  by  the  Eyetalians.  Bad  situation-very,  as  Mr.  Jingle  would  say.  Because,  all  indications  of  myth  and  popular  tradition  to  the  contrary,  the  Italian-&quot;  &quot;Is  the  most  difficult  male  on  the  planet,&quot;  interjects  Nathaniel,  with  the  happy  air  of  one  climbing  onto  an  old  and  beloved  hobbyhorse.  &quot;That  stands,  though  I  was  about  to  say  conservative,&quot;  says  the  Englishman.  &quot;Difficult,  because  with  the  Asian,  the  African  male-&quot;  &quot;Don't  forget  the  Indian,&quot;  adds  Nathaniel.  &quot;You  know  where  you  are,&quot;  says  the  Englishman.  &quot;And  one  expects  behavior  along  primitive  authoritarian  lines.  But  the  Italian  has  a  veneer  of  modernity  that  makes  him  infinitely  more  danger-  ous.  Underneath  the  flashy  design  is  a  veritable  root  system  of  archaic  beliefs  and  primitive  loyalties.  In  4974616c79  it's  bet-  ter  hidden-that's  all.&quot;  Getting  excited,  he  waves  across  the  room  at,  of  all  people,  Nicolo,  possibly " b"       because  he's  seen  him  come  in  with  Merope.  &quot;Just  pick  an  example!  One  look  at  him  and  the  discerning  eye  sees  not  just  an  overdressed  example  of  the  Riace  bronzes  but  an  apartment!  Yes,  behind  every  4974616c79ese  playboy  lurks  an  immense,  dark,  rambling  bour-  geois  apartment  in  the  Magenta  district,  with  garlands  on  the  ceiling  and  the  smell  of  generations  of  pasta  in  brodo-  oh,  that  brodo!-borne  to  the  table  by  generations  of  maidservants  with  mustaches.  &quot;And  the  tribal  life  in  these  apart-  ments-all-powerful  mothers,  linen  closets,  respectful  tradesmen  presenting  yearly  bills,  respectful  priests  subtly  skimming  the  household  wealth,  cer-  emonial  annual  removals  to  the  moun-  tains  and  the  sea,  young  men  and  young  wives  slowly  suffocating,  gold  clinking  in  coffers  to  a  rhythm  that  says,  family,  family,  family.&quot;  He  fixes  Merope  with  a  sparkling  periwinkle  eye.  &quot;One  grows  up  in  one  of  these  miniature  purgatories  with  a  sense  of  sin  ingrained  in  one's  cells-a  sense  that  human  compromise  and  human  corruption  are  inevitable.  It's  the  belief  at  the  root  of  all  the  wickedness  in  this  city-and  this  is  a  very  wicked  city.  Wicked  in  a  silly  and  not  even  very  in-  teresting  way.  An  exotic  556e6974656420537461746573n  like  you  can't  comprehend  the  weightof  it.&quot;  Presumptuous  old  donkey,  thinks  Merope,  who  has  been  looking  around  and  only  half  listening.  It  would  be  nice  to  get  through  an  evening  out  without  hearing  the  word  &quot;exotic.&quot;  &quot;I  have  a  family,  too,&quot;  she  says,  distinctly.  &quot;It's  eminently  clear  that  you  are  a  sheltered  and  highly  edu-  cated  flower  of  the  New  World,  and  that  makes  you  more  vul-  nerable.&quot;  He  points  to  Clay.  &quot;That's  the  kind  of  girl  who  gets  on  in  4974616c79:  hit  and  run.&quot;  Clay  is  standing  across  the  room  talking  to  one  of  the  twins.  Un-  like  anyone  else,  she  looks  better  as  the  night  wears  on:  her  eyes  and  earrings  gleam  and  she  seems  more  voluptuous,  whiter,  redder,  more  emphatic.  By  her  side  hovers  Claudio  the  shoemaker,  who  has  not  left  her  since  she  gave  him  that  kiss.  If  he  was  annoyingly  forward  in  his  behavior  before  the  event,  now  he  is  desperate.  &quot;Yes,  that  intelligent  young  woman     THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  5,  1993  has  had  the  good  sense  to  hook  up  with  a  cattle  baron  and  get  the  hell  out.&quot;  &quot;You  sound  jealous,&quot;  says  Merope.  &quot;Oh,  extremely,&quot;  says  the  English-  man.  &quot;But  it's  too  late  for  me.&quot;  &quot;At  this  point  we're  fixtures,&quot;  sighs  Nathaniel.  One  of  the  twins  darts  over  and  com-  pliments  Merope  on  the  wonderful  new  shoes  she  has  on,  which  are  black  with  straps,  and  this  somehow  gets  everyone  talking  about  the  British  Royal  Family,  since  Nathaniel  claims  to  have  heard  on  reliable  authority  that  what  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED]  really  desires  in  his  troubled  mar-  riage  is  straps,  plenty  of  them,but  that  the  Princess  declines  to  oblige.  Clay  waltzes  up  and  plops  down  on  the  Englishman's  lap,  nearly  knocking  him  over;  meanwhile  they  start  discuss-  ing  a  new  conspiracy  theory  that  links  the  Queen  with  the  latest  Mafia  execu-  tions  in  Palermo.  They  go  on  to  the  fiasco  of  the  AIDS  benefit  gala  held  the  previous  week  at  the  Sforza  Castle,  where  a  freak  storm  fried  the  outdoor  lights  and  nearly  electrocuted  an  in-  ternational  crowd  of  celebrities.  After  that  they  argue  over  the  significance  of  the  appearance  of  a  noted  art  critic  on  a  late-night  television  sex  show  hosted  by  a  beautiful  hermaphrodite.  Then  they  thoroughly  dissect  the  latest  ad-  dendum  to  the  sensational  divorce  case  of  a  publishing  magnate:  his  wife's  claim  that  he  violated  her  with  a  zuc-  chini  and  then  served  his  friends  the  offending  vegetable  as  part  of  a  risotto.  Nicolo  has  come  over  and  sat  down  on  the  arm  of  a  couch  next  to  Merope,  and  through  all  the  laughter  she  feels  him  watching  her.  Under  cover  of  everyone  else's  chatter,  he  leans  over  and  says,  &quot;I  have  to  fly  to  New  York  the  day  after  tomor-  row.  Do  you  want  to  come  with  me?&quot;  She  rises  and  moves  away  from  the  rest  of  the  group  toward  the  window,  and  he  follows  her.  Then  she  stands  still  and  looks  directly  at  him.  &quot;I  don't  think  you  are  really  interested  in  me,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I'm  not  your  type  at  all-  not  extraordinarily  young,  not  tall,  not  beautiful  at  the  professional  level  you  like.  And  I  have  a  personality.  An  atti-  tude,  though  you  can't  possibly  know  what  that  means.  So  the  question  is  why  you  are  behaving  this  way:  To  keep  your  " b"FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  hand  in?  To  practice  for  the  Third  World  models?&quot;  He  reddens,  butnot  as  much  as  he  should,  and  apologizes.  He  admits  he's  been  horribly  clumsy  but  says  she's  being  too  hard  on  him.  The  fact  is  that  she's  different  from  the  women  he  usually  meets,  and  that  has  thrown  him  off  base.  He  should  have  guessed-  &quot;I  go  to  New  York  quite  often  for  work,&quot;  Merope  interrupts  pitilessly.  &quot;You  offered  me  a  trip  like  someone  offers  stockings  to  a  little  refugee.  Offer  it  to  that  Polish  girl  who  came  into  Francesco's  office,  the  one  who  took  off  her  shirt.  I1  could  see  that  got  you  excited.&quot;  He  reddens  some  more,  rubs  his  right  eye  with  a  nervous  forefinger,  but  he  is  not,  she  sees,  displeased;  on  the  contrary,  he  is  liking  this  intensely.  What's  going  on,  she  thinks,  that  all  the  men  want  us  to  tread  on  them?  Even  the  poor  old  Prince  of  [REDACTED]  likes  a  spanking.  From  across  the  room  Clay  winks  at  her  as  if  she  knows  what  she's  thinking,  and  Merope  feels  suddenly  tired.  Francesco  has  helped  one  of  the  twins  put  together  a  batch  of  sgropin,  the  vodka-and-lemon-sherbet  mixture  Ve-  netians  drink  after  heavy  meals;  when  Merope  sits  down  again  the  others  are  sipping  it  from  spwmante  glasses  and  continuing  to  chatter  away  at  the  top  of  their  lungs,  now  about  telepathy  and  magic.  Clay  talks  about  a  friend  of  hers  in  Rome  who  can  call  you  upon  the  phone  and  tell  you  the  colors  of  the  clothes  you  are  wearing  at  that  moment.  One  of  the  twins  describes  the  master  wizard  from  Turin,  Gustavo  Rol,  who  in  his  heyday  in  the  nineteen-fifties  would  tell  you  to  select  any  book  from  your  library,  turn  to  a  page  you  chose,  and  there  would  be  his  name,  written  in  an  unearthly  handwrit-  ing.  Francesco  tells  of  his  uncle  who,  while  living  in  a  huge  old  villa  on  the  Brenta,  had  a  dream  one  night  that  an  unknown  woman  instructed  him  to  lock  a  slab  of  limestone  into  a  small  storage  room  and  throw  away  the  key.  The  uncle  obeyed  the  dream,  and  when  he  and  his  family  broke  down  the  door  a  day  later,  they  found  the  slab  engraved  with  the  words  &quot;Siete  tutti  maledetti&quot;-  &quot;You  are  all  cursed.&quot;  These  dismal  words  don't  directly  end  the  party,  yet  no  one  manages  to  stay  around  much  after  they  are  spoken.  People  go  off  for  a  drink  at  Momus,  or  to  watch  the  latest  crop  of  models  dance  at  the  eternal  model  showcase,  Nepen-  tha.  Some  go  home,  since  there  is  no  shame  in  this  in  the  last,  frugal  years  of  the  millennium.  Clay  does  one  of  her  fast  bunks,  adroit  as  usual  at  collapsing  with  exhaustion  when  she  feels  bored;  hissing  to  Merope  that  she'll  call  her  later  to  rehash,  she  slips  into  a  taxi  that  no  one  knew  she  had  called.  She  leaves  Claudio  the  shoemaker  on  the  sidewalk  with  a  peck  on  the  cheek.  From  the  cor-  ner  of  her  eye  Merope  observes  him  standing,  just  standing  as  the  taxi  whisks  off.  He  looks  suddenly  two-dimensional,  as  if  his  stuffing  has  all  fallen  out.  &quot;Marsyas  flayed,  eh?&quot;  says  the  English-  man,  from  over  Merope's  shoulder.  &quot;I  told  you  she  was  an  expert.&quot;  Nicolo  offers  to  drive  Merope  home,  and  she  says  yes.  Which  leaves  her  walking  toward  the  car  at1  [REDACTED]  through  the  ancient  center  of  4974616c79  with  a  man  who  doesn't  attract  her,  whom  she  doesn't  want  to  try  to  under-  stand.  What  strange  glue  has  them  still  stuck  together?  UNDER  their  feet  the  worn  paving  stones  are  slippery  with  damp,  and  from  gardens  hidden  behind  the  smog-blackened  portals  of  theold  pal-  aces  comes  a  breath  of  earth  and  leaves  and  cat  pee.  Occasionally  they  pass  a  doorway  littered  with  disposable  sy-  ringes,  but  they  see  no  one-no  addicts  and  no  lovers.  Approaching  is  the  quiet,  est  hour  of  the  night,  the  hour  when  the  unchanging  character  of  the  city  emerges  from  the  overlay  of  traffic  and  history.  Their  footsteps  echo  on  the  walls  of  the  narrow  streets  with  a  late-night  sound  that  Merope  thinks  must  be  pe-  culiar  to  4974616c79,  as  each  city  in  the  world  has  its  own  response  to  night  voices  and  footfalls.  As  if  her  scolding  had  pushed  a  button  that  vaporized  inhibitions,  Nicolo  has  been  talking  steadily  since  they  said  goodbye  to  the  others  and  he  continues  after  they  have  gotten  into  his  big  leather-lined  car,  where  the  doors  make  a  heavy  prosperous  sound  when  they  slam,  like  a  vault  closing.  He  talks  about  his  estranged  wife,  whom  he  has  never  quite  been  ableto  divorce,  about  the  excellence  of  her  fam-  ily,  a  pharmaceutical  dynasty  from  Como,  about  her  religion,  about  her    " b"well-bred  pipe-stem  legs  below  the  Scottish  tartan  skirts  she  favored  in  the  nineteen-seventies,  about  how  her  prob-  lem  with  alcohol  began.  He  talks  about  how  until  a  certain  age  a  man  goes  on  searching  fora  woman  to  heal  who-  knows-what  wound;  until  some  after-  noon  one  looks  up  from  scanning  a  document  and  realizes  that  one  has  stopped  searching  and  how  that  realiza-  tion  is  the  chief  disaster  one  faces.  He  talks  about  his  son,  who  is  with  Salomon  Brothers  in  [REDACTED],  and  his  daughter,  in  her  last  year  at  Bocconi;  he  asks  Merope  how  old  she  is.  'T'wenty-eight.&quot;  She  says  it  with  careless  emphasis,  know-  ing  that  it  is  too  old  forhis  tastes,  that  probably  one  of  the  most  intense  pleasures  he  al-  lows  himself  is  the  moment  he  learns  definitively  how  young,  how  dangerously  young,  is  the  girl  at  his  side.  It  heightens  her  sense  of  power,  not  to  be  to  his  taste,  and  yet  there  is  something  companion-  able  in  it.  Any  tiredness  she  felt  has  passed:  she  feels  beautiful  and  in  control,  sustained  by  her  little  black  dress  with  its  boned  bodice  as  if  by  a  sheath  of  magic  armor.  On  impulse  she  asks  him  not  to  take  her  immediately  home  but  to  drive  out  of  town  and  follow  the  canal  road  to-  ward  Pavia  first  so  they  can  have  a  look  at  the  rice  fields,  which  are  flooded  now  for  the  spring  planting.  To  get  to  the  Pavese  canal  they  cut  through  the  neigh-  borhood  near  Parco  Sempione  where  the  transvestite  and  transsexual  whores  do  business.  It's  late  for  the  whores,  whose  peak  hour  for  exhibiting  them-  selves  on  the  street  is  midnight,  but  those  who  are  not  already  with  clients  or  off  the  job  go  into  their  routine  when  they  see  the  lights  of  Nicold's  car.  Vari-  ously  they  shimmy  and  stick  out  their  tongues,  bend  over  cupping  their  naked  silicone  breasts,  turn  their  backs  and  wag  their  bare  bottoms.  They  are  said  to  be  the  best-dressed  streetwalkers  in  4974616c79,  and  certainly  in  fast  glimpses  they  all  look  gorgeous,  fantastically  costumed  in  string  bikinis  and  garter  belts,  stockings  and  high  heels,  with  their  original  sex  revealed  only  by  the  width  of  their  jaws  and  the  narrowness  of  their  hips.  All  together  they  resemble  a  marooned  group  of  Fellini  extras.  One  of  them  is  wrapped  THE  NEW  YORKER,  APRIL  5.1993  in  a  Mephistophelian  red  cloak  that  swirls  over  nipples  daubed  with  phos-  phorescent  makeup;  another  is  wearing  a  tight  silver  Lycra  jumpsuit  with  a  cutout  exposing  bare  buttocks  that  re-  mind  Merope,  inevitably,  of  the  G/urei  class.  Nicolo  slows  down  the  car  to  allow  the  two  of  them  a  good  look,  and  makes  a  weak  joke  about  urban  nocturnal  trans-  portation  services.  He  tells  Merope  that  the  transvestites  are  nearly  all  Yugoslays  or  Brazilians,  something  she  already  knows.  With  Clay  and  other  friends  she  has  driven  around  to  see  them  a  number  of  times  after  dinner;  only  now,  however,  does  she  consider  what  life  must  be  like  for  these  flamboyant  night  birds,  for-  eigners  to  a  country,  foreigners  to  a  gender,  skilled  but  underappreciated  workers  in  a  profession  that  makes  them  foreigners  to  most  of  the  rest  of  the  world.  She  can  see  that  Nicolo  is  eying  them  with  the  veiled  expression  that  men  adopt  when  with  a  woman  com-  panion  they  look  at  whores,  and  this  fills  her  with  friendly  amusement.  She's  starting  to  feel  slightly  fond  of  him,  in  fact,  old  Nicolo.  His  overlong  curls,  the  superb  quality  of  the  fabric  of  his  jacket,  his  anguish,  even  his  timid  taste  for  adolescents  are  all,  as  the  English-  man  said,  parts  of  a  certain  type  of  equa-  tion.  It  has  to  do  not  only  with  vast  gloomy  apartments  with  plaster  gar-  lands  but  also  with  escapes  from  that  world-endless  futile  escapes  with  the  returns  built  right  in.  Nicolo,  she  knows,  would  like  her  to  be  one  of  his  es-  capes.  He's  not  brave  enough  for  the  transvestites,  They  reach  the  Naviglio  Pavese  and  drive  along  the  canal  toward  the  periph-  ery  of  the  city,  past  the  darkened  restau-  rant  zone  and  the  moored  barges  full  of  caf\xc3\xa9  tables,  the  iron  footbridges  and  the  few  clubs  with  lights  still  lit.  Nicolo  con-  tinues  to  talk:  spurred  by  her  silence,  he  starts  improvising,  gets  a  bit  declarative.  He  is  confessing  to  her  that  he  is  tired  of  young  models  and  wild  evenings.  Even  tonight,  with  that  kis  He  has  nothing  against  her  friend  Clay,  who  is  a  fasci-  nating  woman,  but  there  is  something  about  her-  In  any  case,  at  a  certain  time  one  wants  a  woman  one  can  intro-  duce  to  one's  children,  one's  mother.  He  " b"FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  personally  could  never  involve  himself  seriously  with  a  woman  who-  The  minutehe  saw  Merope  he  sensed  that,  though  they  were  so  different,  there  was  a  possibility-  They  pass  through  the  periphery  of  4974616c79:  factories,  government  housing,  and  hapless  remnants  of  village  life  swal-  lowed  by  the  city.  Then  suddenly  they  are  among  the  rice  fields  that  stretch  outside  of  Pavia.  Beside  them  the  sober  gleam  of  the  still  canal  stretches  into  the  distance,  and  to  the  right  and  the  left  of  the  empty  two-lane  road  is  a  magi-  cal  landscape  of  water,  divided  by  geo-  metric  lines.It  could  be  anywhere:  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  4368696e61,  Bali.  And  there  is  light  on  the  water,  because  once  they  are  beyond  the  city  limits  the  moon  ap-  pears.  Not  dramatically-as  full  moons  sometimes  bound  like  comic  actors  onto  the  scene-but  as  a  woman  who  has  paused  unseen  at  the  edge  of  a  group  of  friends  at  a  party  calmly  enters  the  conversation.  The  sight  of  the  moon  dissolves  the  flippant  self-confidence  Merope  caught  from  Clay,  which  carried  her  through  dinner  and  the  party.  She  looks  down  at  her  bare  knees  emerging  like  polished  wood  from  black  silk,  shifts  her  body  in  the  enveloping  softness  of  the  leather  seat  and  feels  not  small,as  such  encoun-  ters  with  celestial  bodies  are  supposed  to  make  one  feel,  but  simply  in  error.  Out  of  step.  Once,  four  or  five  years  ago,  on  vaca-  tion  in  Senegal,  she  and  her  sister  sneaked  out  of  Club  Med  and  went  to  a  New  Year's  Eve  dance  in  the  town  gym-  nasium  and  a  local  boy  led  her  onto  the  floor,  where  a  sweating,  ecstatic  crowd  was  surging  in  an  oddly  decorous  rhythm  of  small,  synchronized  stops  and  starts;  and  in  those  beautiful  African  arms  she'd  taken  one  step  and  realized  that  it  was  wrong.  And  not  just  that  the  step  was  wrong  in  itself  but  that  it  led  to  a  whole  chain  of  wrong  steps  and  that  she-who  had  assumed  she  was  the  heiress  of  the  entire  continent  of  Af-  rica-couldn't  for  the  life  of  her  catch  that  beat.  Sitting  now  in  this  car,  where  she  has  no  real  desire  or  need  to  be,  she  experiences  a  similar  dismay.  She  feels  thata  far-reaching  mistake  has  been  made,  not  now  but  long  ago,  as  if  she  and  Nicolo  and  Clay  and  theother  people  she  knows  are  condemned  to  endless  repetitions  of  a  tiresome  antique  " b"blunder  to  which  the  phlegmatic  moon  continues  to  bear  witness.  &quot;I  think  it's  time  to  go  back  now,&quot;  she  says,  breaking  into  whatever  Nicolo  is  confessing;  then  she  feels  unreason-  ably  annoyed  by  the  polite  promptness  with  which  he  falls  silent,  makes  a  U-turn,  and  heads  toward  the  city.  For  a  second  she  wishes  intensely  that  something  would  happen  to  surprise  her.  She  sees  it  ina  complete,  swift  se-  quence,  the  way  she  dreams  up  those  free-lance  scripts:  Nicolo  stops  the  car,  turns  to  her,  and  bites  her  bare  shoulder  to  the  bone.  Or  an  angel  suddenly  steps  out  on  the  road,  wings  and  arm  out-  stretched,  and  explains  each  of  them  to  the  other  in  a  kindly,  efficient  bilingual  manner,  rather  like  a  senior  U.N.  inter-  preter.  From  the  radio,  which  has  been  on  since  they  reached  the  canal  road,  comes  a  fuzz  of  static  and  a  few  faint  phrases  of  Sam  Cooke's  &quot;Cupid.&quot;  Merope  looks  down  at  her  hands  in  her  lap  and  when  she  looks  up  again  they  are  passing  an  old  farmhouse  set  close  to  the  road:  one  of  the  rambling  brick  peasant  cascine,  big  enough  for  half  a  dozen  families,  that  dot  the  Bassa  Padana  lowlands  like  fortresses.  Even  at  night  itis  clear  that  this  place  is  half  in  ruins,  but  as  they  pass  by  she  sees  a  figure  standing  in  front  and  gives  an  in-  voluntary  ery.  Nicolo  has  good  reflexes  and  simply  slows  the  car  without  bringing  it  to  a  halt.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;There  was  someone  standing  in  front  of  that  cascina-it  looked  like  a  woman  holding  a  child.&quot;  &quot;That's  not  impossible.  Some  of  these  big  abandoned  houses  close  to  the  city  have  been  taken  over  by  squatters.  For-  eigners,  again:  Albanians,  Filipinos,  Moroccans,  Somalians,  Yugoslav  Gyp-  sies.  What  I'm  afraid  we're  facing  is  a  new  barbarian  invasion.&quot;  She  hardly  notices  what  he  says,  be-  cause  she  is  busy  trying  to  understand  what  she  saw  back  in  front  of  the  old  farmhouse,  whose  walls,  she  realizes  with  delayed  comprehension,  seemed  to  have  been  festooned  with  spray-paint  graffiti  like  a  [REDACTED]  subway  stop,  like  an  East  [REDACTED]  squat.  The  figure  she  saw  in  the  moonlight  could  have  been  a  wild-haired  woman  holding  a  baby  but  could  just  as  easily  have  been  a  man  with  dreadlocks  cradling  something  else:  a  bundle,  a  small  dog.  The  clothing  of  the  " b"FULL  MOON  OVER  MILAN  figure  was  indeterminate,  the  skin  definitely  dark,  the  face  an  oval  of  shadow.  Thinking  of  it  and  remember-  ing  her  thoughts  beforehand,  she  feels  an  absurd  flash  of  terror,  from  which  she  quickly  pulls  back.  You  aren't  drunk,  she  tells  herself  in  her  mother's  most  commonsense  tone,  and  you  have  taken  no  dicey  pharmaceu-  ticals,  so  stop  worrying  yourself  at  once.  Just  stop.  When  Nicolo  notices  that  she  is  shaken  up  and  asks  if  she  is  feeling  all  right,  Merope  says  she  is  overtired  and  leaves  it  at  that.  She  is  sorry  she  cried  out:  it  makes  it  seem  that  the  two  of  them  have  shared  some  dangerous  inti-  mate  experience.  BACK  in  4974616c79  they  go  speeding  along  the  deserted  tram  tracks,  and  the  moon  disappears  behind  masses  of  architecture.  Merope  wants  above  all  things  to  be  back  in  her  apartment,  in  her  own  bed,  under  the  ikat  quilt  her  ex-boyfriend  made  for  her.  She  has  to  drive  to  Bologna  for  a  meeting  tomor-  row  afternoon  and  in  the  morning  has  a  series  of  appointments  for  which,  she  thinks,  she  will  be  about  as  alert  as  a  hi-  bernating  frog.  By  the  time  they  are  standing  outside  the  thick  oak  carriage  doors  of  her  apartment  house,  in  Via  Francesco  Sforza,  her  fit  of  nerves  has  passed.  Nicolo,  looking  a  bit  sheepish  after  the  amount  he  has  said,  invites  her  to  have  dinner  next  week.  &quot;I  can't  see  how  that  would  help  ei-  ther  one  of  us,&quot;  replies  Merope,  but  she  says  it  without  the  malicious  energy  of  earlier  that  evening.  In  fact  she  says  it  as  a  joke,  because  she  doesn't  really  mind  him  anymore.  She  doesn't  give  him  her  number,  but  she  knows  he'll  get  it  from  Clay  or  from  someone  else,  and  this  knowledge  leaves  her  so  unmoved  that  for  a  minute  she  is  filled  with  pity,  for  him  and  probably  for  herself  as  well.  Without  adding  anything  she  kisses  him  on  both  cheeks  and  then  lets  the  small,  heavy  pedestrians'  door  close  between  them.  Then  she  takes  off  her  shoes  and  in  her  stocking  feet  runs  across  the  cold,  slippery  paving  stones  of  the  courtyard  into  her  wing  of  the  building.  She  steps  into  the  old  glass-and-wooden  elevator,  careful  not  to  bang  the  double  doors  and  awaken  Massimo  the  porter,  who  sleeps  nearby.  As  she  goes  up  she  feels  the  buzzing  mental  clarity  that  comes  from  exhaustion.  In  the  back  of  her  mind  have  risen  the  words  from  the  ghost  story  at  the  party,  the  baleful  pronouncement  engraved  on  a  stone  slab:  &quot;Siete  fuffi  maledetti.&quot;  And  fora  few  seconds  she  finds  herself  laboring  over  that  phrase,  attempting  with  a  feverish  automatic  kind  of  energy  to  fix  it-to  substitute  a  milder  word  for  &quot;cursed&quot;-as  she  might  correct  a  bad  line  of  copy.  The  phone  is  ringing  as  she  lets  her-  self  into  the  apartment,  and  she  grins  as  she  picks  it  up:  Clay  is  worse  than  a  dorm  mother.  &quot;What  if  I  decide  to  go  to  bed  with  somebody?&quot;  she  says  into  the  phone.  &quot;You  won't-not  with  him,  anyway.  You're  not  the  charitable  type,&quot;  says  Clay.  She  gives  a  loud  yawn:  she's  prob-  ably  been  lying  there  talking  to  the  Texan,  who  calls  every  night.  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  make  sure  you  made  curfew.&quot;  &quot;What  time  is  curfew  at  this  school?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  around  noon  the  next  day.&quot;  &quot;Clay,  shame  on  you.  You  kissed  that  man.&quot;  &quot;There  was  no  man  there.  It  was  a  trick  of  lighting.&quot;  They  start  giggling,  egg  each  other  on.  For  the  first  time  that  night  Merope  is  having  fun;  courage  warms  her  and  the  dreadlocked  apparition  by  the  farm-  house  steps  back  into  whatever  waiting  room  in  the  imagination  is  reserved  for  catchpenny  roadside  omens.  A  few  months  later,  she  will  discover  that  this  was  the  night  she  decided  to  stop  living  in  4974616c79;  that  here,in  a  small  burst  of  in-  stinct,  began  her  transition  to  some-  where  else.  But  at  this  moment  on  the  bare  edge  of  a  new  day  in  4974616c79,  only  one  image  comes  to  mind:  herself  and  Clay  in  evening  dresses  out  of  a  thirties  film,  foxtrotting  together  like  two  Gin-  ger  Rogerses  around  and  around  an  empty  piazza.  Full  of  bravado,  they  laugh  funky  556e6974656420537461746573n  bad-girl  laugh-  ter  as  they  dance;  they  whirl  faster  until  they  outrun  gravity  and  start  to  rise  over  the  worn  gray  face  of  the  city,  their  satin  skirts  spinning  out  in  a  white  disk  that  tosses  casual  light  down  on  fac-  tories  and  streetcar  lines,  on  gardens,  palaces,  and  the  bristling  spires  of  the  Duomo.  Merope  sits  down  on  the  bed  and  wedges  the  phone  between  her  shoulder  and  ear.  &quot;Did  you  see  the  moon?&quot;  she  asks. "