WE  take  the  226  bus  from  Dollis  Hill  to  Golders  Green  Station.  Along  the  way  the  houses  expand  and  beautify.  Then  we  hopon  the  single-decker  210  to  Hamp-  stead  Heath.  Dennis  asks  me,  &quot;How  many  ears  has  Davy  Crockett  got?&quot;  I  shake  my  head.  &quot;Three,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;His  left  ear,  his  right  ear,  and  his  wild  front  ear.&quot;  As  soon  as  we're  off  the  bus  we  cross  the  no  man's  land  near  the  Whitestone  Pond  and  enter  the  wild  frontier  of  the  Heath.  No  fooling  around  with  theco-  conut  shy,  the  penny  roll,  or  even  the  bumper  cars.  We  head  straight  for  the  Rat  Woman.  It  is  August,  1967,  and  you  can  still  catch  a  freak  show  at  the  funfair.  At  the  entrance  to  the  tent  stands  a  throwback  to  the  previous  decade,  a  pointy,  faced,  vicious  spiv,  hair  slicked  back,  Teddy-boy  jacket,  black  drainpipe  jeans,  winkle-picker  Chelsea  boots  covered  in  mud.  He  wants  half  a  crown  from  each  of  us.  Dennis  says,  &quot;Who  are  you-the  Rat  Man?&quot;  El  Spivo  doesn't  like  this.  He  mentions  something  about  slicing  our  fucking  noses  off.  Dennis  is  extremely  tough,  so  it's  O.K.  to  laugh  in  his  face  and  enter  the  tent.  It's  very  hot  under  the  canvas,  and  there's  a  pungent  odor  coming  from  the  cage.  At  first  we  can't  see  her,  because  there's  a  whole  crowd  of  men  (and  a  few  women)  standing  in  front  of  us,  trying  to  get  a  look.  O.K.,  here  she  is,  lying  stretched  out  in  this  brown  wire  thing  that  looks  as  though  it's  been  put  to-  gether  from  old  fire  guards.  &quot;What?  Not  even  tits?&quot;  says  an  old  geezer  next  to  us,  to  no  one  in  particular.  &quot;Shut  your  fucking  mouth,&quot;  the  Rat  Woman  replies  from  her  supine  position.  She's  in  a  full-body  leotard:  the  top  half  is  sheer,  with  tufts  of  brown  hair  glued  over  her  nipples.  The  bottom  is  fake  rat  skin  with  a  long  tail  attached.  She  has  narrow,  sharp-looking,  protrud-  ing  front  teeth,  which  may  have  got  her  the  job  in  the  first  place.  It's  not  the  tail  that  gets  me,  or  the  brown  and  white  rats  crawling  all  over  her,  as  if  she  were  in  a  sewer-it's  her  long,  brown,  var-  FICTION  BANK  HOLIDAY  by  Jonathan  Wilson  nished,  witchy  nails.  &quot;Imagine  being  scratched  by  those,&quot;  I  say  to  Dennis,  nudging  him  and  pointing.  &quot;Nasty,&quot;  Dennis  replies.  We're  up  close  now,  with  our  faces  almost  pressed  against  the  wire.  I  feel  some  bastard  trying  to  pick  my  back  pocket,  but  as  there's  nothing  in  it,  he's  going  to  be  out  of  luck.  &quot;Can  I  do  some-  thing  for  you  gentlemen?&quot;  asks  the  Rat  Woman,  giving  a  heavy  stare  and  daring  us  to  linger.  &quot;Bite  their  balls  off,&quot;  yells  some  loud-  mouth  from  the  back  of  the  crowd.  I  say  to  the  Rat  Woman,  &quot;Want  some  cheese?&quot;  &quot;T'll  give  you  cheese,&quot;  she  screams.  &quot;I'll  give  you  fucking  cheese.&quot;  Before  I  can  get  out  of  the  way  she  scoops  up  a  handful  of  rat  shit  and  saw-  dust  and  throws  it  through  the  cage  at  my  face.  I  try  to  duck  but  get  caught  be-  hind  the  ear.I  can  feel  little  pellets  in  my  hair.  We  get  down  on  our  hands  and  knees  and  crawl  to  the  side  of  the  tent.  Some  kid  is  lying  there,  trying  to  saw  through  oneof  the  guy  ropes  with  a  tiny  pen-  knife.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  Dennis  asks  him,  stupidly.  The  kid  jabs  the  knife  at  us.  &quot;Watch  it,&quot;  I  say.  (He's  very  small.)  We  roll  out  of  the  fetid  tent  and  into  some  muddy  caravan  ruts.  Behind  our  heads  the  generator  for  the  merry-  go-round  is  giving  offa  high-pitched  whine,  as  if  it's  going  to  explode.  &quot;Fun-  fair-they  call  this  a  funfair,&quot;  says  Dennis.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  reply,  &quot;aren't  you  having  fun?&quot;  We  scramble  down  the  Heath  to  the  lower  part  of  the  fair.  Outside  the  Big  Wheel,  we  bump  into  beautiful  Pat  McNally  from  our  school,  and  her  new  boyfriend.  &quot;This  is  Lemberg,&quot;  she  says  in  her  Wembley  whine.  &quot;He's  an  artist.&quot;  Dennis  looks  at  me.  I  know  what  he's  thinking.  Pat's  last  boyfriend,  Slim,  was  a  consummate  mod:  scooter,  parka,  big  Who  fan,  the  whole  thing.  But  he's  dead.  Done  in  by  the  Chinese  heroin  that  blew  through  our  school  last  year  like  a  fat  death  wind.  This  guy,  Lemberg,  looks  like  a  poor  substitute  for  Slim.  &quot;Wanna  see  his  studio?&quot;  Pat  asks  us.  She  doesn't  bother  to  tell  him  our  names.  ‘  N  JE  stand  in  front  of  this  huge  can-  vas  that  is  a  portrait  of  naked  Lemberg,  giant  size,  thick  brushes  in  his  hand,  long  thick  tube  of  a  penis  hanging  down.  A  black  scrawl  in  the  bottom-  right-hand  corner  of  the  painting  reads  &quot;Drive  your  cart  and  your  plow  over  the  bones  of  the  dead.&quot;  Lemberg  sits  at  a  table  in  the  middle  of  his  studio,  rolling  a  joint.  He's  about  thirty,  maybe  thirty-  five.  &quot;What's  this,  then?&quot;  says  Dennis,  pointing  at  the  penis.  &quot;You've  been  using  your  imagination  a  little,  haven't  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,&quot;  says  Pat,  matter-of-factly,  &quot;he  does  have  abig  one.  Don't  you?&quot;  Lemberg  doesn't  respond.  He  keeps  sort-  ing  through  his  bag  of  grass.  He's  humming  a  little  song  to  himself,  like  Winnie-the-Pooh:  What  you  don't  need  stalks  and  seeds.  We  respect  almost  anything  Pat  says  (1)  because  of  her  recent  bereavement,  and  (2)  because  she  knows  Twiggy.  I  have  a  third  reason  for  respecting  her.  For  some  months  she  has  been  the  ob-  ject  of  all  my  fantasies,  in  most  of  which  she  is  naked  and  hard  at  work.  Dennis  starts  to  wander  around  the  studio,  picking  up  tubes  of  paint  and  squeezing  blobs  of  color  onto  his  hands.  Then  he  wipes  them  on  his  jeans.  &quot;Look,&quot;  he  says,  pointing  at  his  trousers.  &quot;Art.&quot;  It  seems  all  right  to  be  thirty-five  and  an  artist  in  trendy  Hampstead.  You  geta  big  bed  in  the  middle  of  an  open  space  (it's  rumpled,  and  a  not-so-small  patch  of  dry  brown  blood  is  on  the  under-  sheet),  and  this  gorgeous  sixteen-year-  old  girl  whom  we're  all,  me  especially,  dying  for,  and  you  get  to  paint  your-  self  naked.  &quot;Leave  the  paint  alone,&quot;  says  Lemberg.  Ah,  he  speaks.  And  what  do  you  know?  He's  one  of  us.  He's  from  our  part  of  town.  So  there's  not  a  lot  we  can  do  now,  because  he  knows  who  we  are,  and  we  know  who  he  is.  That's  all  it  takes  in  [REDACTED],  really-someone  opening  his  mouth.  We  smoke  the  dope.  &quot;This  is  home-  grown,&quot;  says  Lemberg.  &quot;You  should  see  his  setup,&quot;  Pat  adds.  &quot;'There's  a  whole  little  room  covered  in  tinfoil,  with  studio  lights  he  got  from  a  closed-down  theatre.&quot;  &quot;Ever  try  hash  oil?&quot;  asks  Lemberg.  &quot;This  is  coated  in  hash  oil.  Makes  for  a  trippy  experience.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Dennis  asks.  &quot;Are  you  tell-  ing  me  we  can  expect  to  hallucinate?&quot;  &quot;What  you  expect  and  what  you  get  may  turn  out  to  be  two  different  things  entirely.&quot;  &quot;Very  meaningful,&quot;  Dennis  replies.  After  about  ten  minutes  Dennis  says  to  me,  &quot;It's  big-socks  time.&quot;  He's  refer-  ring  to  that  moment  when  the  dope  effects  start  to  creep  into  your  knees,  then  down  toward  your  calves,  where  they  irritate  the  area  just  above  where  the  sock  line  would  be  if  you  were  wearing  big  socks.  Lemberg  has  moved  over  to  Pat  and  is  trying  to  kiss  her.  She  keeps  pushing  his  face  away,  but  only  ina  kind  of  &quot;Just  wait  until  they've  gone&quot;  way.  We  go.  Outside,  I  look  at  the  normally  invisible  hairs  on  the  back  of  my  hand  and  seea  waving  corn-  field.  &quot;That's  a  hash-  oil  magnification  you're  experiencing,&quot;  says  Den-  nis  when  I  describe  what's  going  on.  &quot;Your  powers  of  perception  have  been  heightened.&quot;  Soon  after,  I  have  this  idea  about  running  up  an  Israeli  flag  on  our  school  flagpole.  I  use  my  sharpened  powers  to  imagine  a  huge  blue-  on-white  Star  of  David  whipping  in  the  wind  over  Brondesbury,  and  Queens  Park  and  Pad-  dington.  Last  week,  Owen  (Religious  Instruction)  beat  me  badly  with  the  &quot;ko-  sher  cosh&quot;  for  talking  in  class.  I  have  a  deeper  grudge  against  Beaglehole  for  humiliating  me  during  gym.  I  was  wearing  red     me  Te  Omen  shorts  instead  of  the  regulation  black.  &quot;Wolfson,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;this  isn't  a  Jewish  fashion  show.&quot;  This  kind  of  thing  (&quot;Cohen,  stand  in  the  wastepaper  bin-you're  rub-  bish&quot;)  goes  on  all  the  time  in  our  school,  which  mingles  semi-intelligent  socio-  paths  from  Kilburn  with  recidivist  Jewish  kids  from  Willesden  and  Wembley.  The  question  is:  Where  to  getthe  flag?  Dennis,  who  has  an  agile  but  gen-  erally  impractical  mind,  immediately  suggests  that  we  steal  one.  But  where  from?  We  stand  outside  a  house  with  a  blue  plaque,  where  John  Keats  lived  two  hundred  years  ago.  Dennis  says,  &quot;When  was  the  last  time  you  saw  an  Israeli  flag?  I  mean  one  within  graspable  distance.&quot;  I  totter  around  on  some  blurry  edge  in  my  mind.  I  know  where  I'm  going,  but  I  don't  quite  want  to  get  there.  Eventually,  I  say,  &quot;In  synagogue,  when  your  cousin  Norman  was  bar  mitzvahed.  Don't  you  re-  member?  They  unfurled  it  behind  him  when  he  got  his  J.N.F.  trees.&quot;  “WHAT’S  the  problem?&quot;  Dennis  yells  up,  in  what  he  thinks  is  a  whisper.  I'm  lying,  like  a  fish  on  a  plat-  ter,  on  one  half  of  a  huge  hexagonal  stained-glass  window  that  we  have  3  93  managed  to  push  open  with  a  pole.  I've  scaled  the  concrete  wall,  and  the  friable  paint  job  is  all  over  my  hands  and  clothes.  My  face  is  up  against  the  mane  of  a  tawny  Lion  of  Judah.  The  glass,  bonded  in  metal,  feels  like  it's  going  to  shatter  at  any  minute.  Meanwhile,  I'm  tipping  forward  but  can't  slide  through.  I'm  thinking  about  the  ful-  crum,  and  how  poorly  I  did  in  Physics  &quot;26%  (Highest  in  Form  97%);  Diligence  C;  Comments:  Lazy  and  incompe-  tent&quot;-wher  suddenly  I'm  head  first  on  the  padded  seats  of  the  temple.  Someone  has  been  here  before  us.  The  whole  place  is  a  mess.  There  are  prayer  books  with  pages  torn  out  and  strewn  all  over  the  place,  and  ripped  prayer  shawls  on  the  floor.  One  of  the  red  velvet  curtains  in  front  of  the  ark  has  been  slashed,  as  have  the  puffy  seats  where  the  synagogue  wardens  sit  in  their  shiny  top  hats  and  tails.  I  let  Dennis  in  through  a  side  door.  He  looks  around.  &quot;Someone's  been  en-  joying  themselves,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Any  sign  of  the  flag?&quot;  Even  I  am  appalled  by  his  insouci-  ance.  &quot;This  is  a  serious  thing,&quot;  I  say.  We  take  a  quick  tour.  It's  mostly slashing  and  ripping.  There  is  one  piece  of  nasty  art  work-a  black  swastika  on  one  of  the  side  walls-but  it  looks  as  if  they  ran  out  of  paint.  It  occurs  to  us  both,  at  about  the  same  time,  that  if  anyone  were  to  come  in  now  we  would  have  a  lot  of  explaining  to  do.  We're  on  our  way  out  (sans  flag)  when  we  hear  the  noise.  It  seems  to  be  coming  from  the  pipes  in  the  organ  loft.  It's  a  tenebrous,  adult-male  groaning.  When  we  get  up  there,  we  find  the  janitor.  His  face  is  blotchy  and  bruised;  there's  a  crescent  of  half-dried  blood  under  each  of  his  nostrils.  &quot;I  tried  to  stop  'em,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Those  bastards.  They  come  in  out  of  the  park.  What  do  they  want  to  do  a  thing  like  this  for?&quot;  Dennis  looks  around-he's  develop-  ing  a  volcanic  glow  in  his  eyes.  I've  seen  it  before;  it  merges  anger  and  impa-  tience,  and  is  sometimes  a  prelude  to  violence.  &quot;Do  you  know  where  the  flag  is?&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;Who  cares  about  the  fucking  flag?&quot;  I  say,  and  for  a  moment  it  looks  as  if  the  two  of  us  might  get  into  a  fight  (not  good  for  me).  For  a  while,  the  janitor  and  I  try  to  clear  up  the  mess.  Dennis  goes  into  the  back  office  to  look  for  the  flag.  I  stuff  a  lot  of  the  torn  pages  under  some-  one's  seat.  Then  I  get  fed  up,  and  I  sit  down  and  start  reading.  &quot;Lust  not  after  her  beauty  in  thine  heart;  neither  let  her  takethee  with  her  eyelids.  For  by  means  of  a  whorish  woman  a  man  is  brought  to  a  piece  of  bread.&quot;  What  piece  of  bread?  I  try  to  think  about  Pat  McNally's  eyelids,  but  they're  impos-  sible  to  visualize.  Eyebrows,  yes-average  thickness,  blond.  A  guide  to  her  pubic  hair?  Could  be.  The  janitor  says  he's  going  to  phone  the  police.  Dennis  appears  with  the  flag  (not  quite  as  big  as  T'd  hoped).  He's  already  attached  it  to  its  staff.  I  ask  the  janitor,  &quot;Mind  if  we  bor-  row  this  for  a  while?&quot;  He  shrugs,  as  if  to  say  &quot;Makes  no  difference  now.&quot;  Beyond  the  synagogue  are  the  open  fields  of  Gladstone  Park.  We  unfurl  the  flag  and  runwith  it  streaming  behind  us  like  a  medieval  banner.  A  couple  of  stray  dogs  chase  us  for  a  while.  Dennis  sends       THE  NEW  YORKER,  JANUARY  11.1993  them  off  by  aiming  kicks  toward  their  faces.  Kids  are  on  the  swings,  and  form-  ing  lines  up  by  the  stone  fountain.  In  the  distance,  past  the  muddy  duck  pond,  a  rainbow  arches  over  the  weeping  willows  and  the  high,  thin  branches  of  the  silver  birches.  It  must  have  rained  while  we  were  inside.  A  small  girl  comes  up  to  us.  She  says,  &quot;I  know  how  doggies  talk.&quot;  She  gives  a  few  yelps,  then  agrowl,  fol-  lowed  by  a  heavy  bark.  Outside  Electric  House,  on  Willesden  Lane,  we  wait  a  long  time  for  a  bus.  Then  they  don't  want  to  let  us  on  with  the  flag.  There's  an  inspector  on  board.  &quot;Suppose  we  stop  suddenly,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You  could  lance  that  right  through  some-  one's  lungs.&quot;  The  conductor  adds,  &quot;More  like  driv-  ing  a  stake  through  a  person's  heart.&quot;  Dennis  says,  &quot;Or  sticking  a  javelin  up  your  arse.&quot;  We  walk.  On  the  way  I  try  to  get  Dennis  to  talk  about  something  that  matters.  What  I  want  to  get  at  is  this:  Why  would  an  at-  tractive  sixteen-year-old  girl  give  herself  over-body  and  possibly  soul-tosome-  one  like  Lemberg?  Now,  from  Lemberg's  point  of  view  it's  all  very  clear-he  wants  to  crush  her  bones.  But  from  Pat's?  Of  course,  I  have  this  special  interest.  In  the  immediate  post-Slim  mourning  period  (&quot;Drive  your  cart  and  your  plow  over  the  bones  of  the  dead&quot;)  I  had  one  slow  dance  with  Pat  at  the  Starlite  Ballroom,  Greenford.  She  wore  a  black  miniskirt  with  a  semi-transparent  pink  blouse  that  revealed  some-  thing  she  told  me  was  called  a  &quot;no-bra  bra.&quot;  Her  body's  imprint  lasted  all  night,  as  if  I  were  sand.  When  I  broach  the  sub-  ject  with  Dennis  I  quickly  discover  that  he  has  no  inter-  &gt;  est  in  the  whys  and  where-  fores  of  anything.  He  is  all  business  and  to  the  point.  The  solid  rope  of  dailiness  is  what  he  likes  to  climb.  If  I  were  to  say  now,  as  I  feel  like  saying,  &quot;I'm  losing  my  enthusiasm  for  this  flag  adventure,  because  the  day  has  already  served  up  more  than  I  can  digest,&quot;  he  would  turn  on  me.  Once,  Dennis  brought  an  axe  to  school.  During  lunch  break  he  chopped  up  his  desk.  At  first,  I  thought  this  was  a  famil-  iar,  if  extreme,  assault  upon  the  seat  of  BANK  HOLIDAY  learning.  Then  I  realized  he  was  trying  to  break  thefrozen  sea  within  him.  We  stuffed  the  splintered  wood  in  our  gym  bags  and  took  the  afternoon  off  toride  the  tube.  As  we  came  to  the  semi-  deserted  stations  at  the  northern  end  of  the  old  Bakerloo  line,  Kingsbury,  Queens-  bury,  and  Canons  Park,  we  waited  until  the  doors  were  about  to  close,  then  threw  the  wood  onto  the  rails.  But  is  this  what  I  really  want?  Van-  dalism  and  adventure?  All  summer  I  have  been  carrying  around  the  possi-  bilities  for  change,  for  shifting  my  alle-  giances.  They  rise  and  fall,  like  unexpected  adolescent  erections,  and,  appropriately,  converge  on  issues  of  hardness  and  soft-  ness.  I  am  awed  by  the  former,  embod-  ied  in  Dennis,  but  generally  inclined  by  temperament  and  character,  toward  the  latter.  Somewhere  inside  I  want  to  sur-  round  a  girl-well,  Pat  McNally-with  the  most  insipid  and  conventional  ac-  coutrements  of  love.  Now,  don't  get  me  wrong-I  had  seen  the  brown-red  stain  on  Lemberg's  bed,  and  I  knew  all  about  the  body's  betrayals.  What  is  more,  almost  my  en-  tire  education  in  the  sex  area  derived  from  dirty  jokes,  poorly  photographed  barbershop  magazines,  and  badly  drawn  graffiti.  The  previous  year,  in  order  to  counterbalance  my  developing  vulgarity,  my  father  had  dragged  me,one  Friday  night,  to  a  small  Sephardic  synagogue  in  [REDACTED]'s  East  End.  He  wanted  me  to  hear  a  group  of  old  men  chant  the  Song  of  Songs-or  Canticle  of  Can-  ticles,  as  it  was  called  in  the  prayer  book.  (I  read  this,  of  course,  as  &quot;Testicle  of  Testicles.&quot;)  But  even  though  I  had  listened  and  learned  about  the  little  foxes,  the  breasts  like  young  roes  feeding  among  the  lilies,  and  the  importance  of  eating  the  honeycomb  with  the  honey,  the  notion  of  a  higher  love  had  not  really  sunk  in.  It  is  not  until  now,  walking  down  Salisbury  Road  with  this  stupid  flag,  that  the  weak  sun  of  considera-  tion  and  love,  hidden  all  season  long,  begins  to  penetrate  the  thick  clouds  of  boorishness  and  lust  that  are  gathered  around  me.  What  I  want,  I  now  realize,  is  more  Pat  Woman  than  Rat  Woman.  Lemberg's  bed  has  been  a  reminder  that  you  can't  have  one  without  the  other,  but  I  have  reached  a  decision  to  approach  the  hy-  brid  with  poetry  rather  than  teen-age  aggression.  I  begin  this  excursion  into  &quot;softness&quot;  by  saying  to  Dennis,  &quot;Do  you  know  whose  house  we  were  outside  back  in  Hampstead?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;Keats'.&quot;  &quot;So  fucking  what?&quot;  This  is  no  more  than  I  expect,  but  the  fact  that  I  have  raised  the  subject  is,  in  itself,  a  significant  beginning.  WE  arrive  at  the  school.  It  is  late  af-  ternoon.  The  turbulent  sun  is  sending  a  bright  glare  to  heat  things  up.  Dennis  has  red  hair,  and  because,  at  this  moment,  it  matches  the  color  of  the  sun,  I  start  to  feel  oppressed  by  Dennis's  head.  I  say,  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  and  raise  the  flag  yourself?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  he  replies.  &quot;After  coming  all  this  way?&quot;  He  tries  to  fire  me  up  by  re-  minding  me  of  some  heinous  teacher  acts.  &quot;Do  you  remember  when  Fanny  wouldn't  let  Sless  go  home  early  on  Friday  nights?  How  about  when  Fogwell  threw  you  against  the  wall  after  your  father  wrote  that  bar-mitzvah-lesson  note?&quot;  But  this  is  second-division  stuff,  and  Dennis  knows  it.  He  hadn't  cared  himself  that  Sless  walked  five  miles  to  his  Orthodox  home  instead  of  catching  the  bus.  He  had  laughed,  along  with  all  the  others,  when  I  had  my  encounter  with  the  wall.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;You  go  up  there.  I've  had  it.&quot;  Dennis  starts  to  move  very  fast.  For  a  moment  I  feel  asif  I'm  a  part  of  ob-  served  Nature.  Offscreen,  someone  is  whispering,  &quot;The  alpha  male,  by  display-  ing  resolution  and  a  sense  of  urgency,  wishes  to  indicate  that  his  companion  is  a  coward.&quot;  Dennis  throws  the  flag  over  thefence  and  climbs  after  it.  I  figure  he'll  have  to  get  up  on  the  gym  roof,  which  may  take  him  a  while,  and  then  make  his  way  along  to  the  crenellated  turret  that  houses  the  flagpole.  I've  got  at  least  twenty  minutes.  I  head  into  Queens  Park  and  start  walking  toward  the  bandstand.  I  think  I'll  find  some  shade,  stretch  out,  medi-  tate.  Considering  it's  a  holiday,  the  place  is  oddly  deserted.  Then  I  see  why.  About  twenty  teen-agers  are  standing  near  the  Pitch  and  Putt.  They're  carrying  bicycle  chains,  golf  clubs  that  they  have  stolen  out  of  the  shed,  and  some  long  sticks.  They're  on  me  before  I  can  even  think  about  running.  I  recognize  a  couple  of  them  from  the  school  for  psychopaths  a  hun-  dred  yards  down  the  road  from  our  own.  BANK  HOLIDAY  First,  it  seems,  they  want  to  play.  One  of  them,  Homo  Kilburnus  stupidus,  says,  &quot;I  didn't  know  Jewswere  allowed  in  this  park.&quot;  His  chief  mate,  a  boy  with  a  deceivingly  innocent-looking  outbreak  of  summer  freckles  on  his  face  and  a  peacock  tattooed  on  his  bare  chest,  says,  &quot;They're  not.&quot;  &quot;So,  what  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  the  first  says.  &quot;Because  you  are  a  Jew.  You  are  a  fucking  Jew,  aren't  you?&quot;  I  say,  &quot;Yes.&quot;  This  isn't  bravery  or  defi-  ance,  because  it  absolutely  doesn't  matter  what  I  say.  &quot;A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever&quot;  or  &quot;Fuck  you,  I'm  C.  of  E.&quot;-  the  consequences  are  going  to  be  the  same.  In  case  you  think  I'm  taking  all  this  with  an  air  of  cool  detach-  ment,  I'm  not.  I  shake  and  sweat  and  wait  to  get  hit.  There's  a  short  interval  while  Freckles  chivalrously  chal-  lenges  me  to  fight.  I  say,  &quot;No,  thanks.&quot;  Then  he  belts  me  in  the  face  with  a  set  of  brass  knuckles.  I  make  my-  self  fall  down,  and  cover  my  head  with  my  hands.  I  can  feel  the  kicks  coming  in:  nasty,  sharp  ones  in  the  kid-  neys,  and  one  to  the  head  that  feels  as  if  it  has  broken  my  fingers.  I'm  praying  that  they  lay  off  with  the  driving  irons.  I  ery,  choke,  and  bleed.  For  a  moment  I  think  they've  stopped.  I  cough,  and  each  breath  brings  a  dragging,  boiling,  bub-  bling  sound.  But  they're  not  done.  Two  of  them  pull  out  my  arms  while  a  third  presses  something  into  my  back.  A  knife!  I  scream.  They  laugh.  The  bas-  tards  are  all  laughing.  Someone  says,  &quot;Fuck  off  out  of  here.&quot;  I  run,  dribbling  blood  and  mucus  from  my  nose.  Obvi-  ously,  I  haven't  been  stabbed.  I  feel  my  back-nothing.  I  reach  a  water  fountain,  sip,  spit,  and  sip  again.  It  is  only  when  I  take  off  my  T-shirt  to  wipe  my  face  that  I  see  what  they've  done.  Where  once  there  was  a  blank,  white  space,  the  word  &quot;Joo&quot;  is  now  inscribed;  the  two  &quot;o'&quot;s-  jocularity  or  ignorance?  I  pull  the  stained,  soaking  T-shirt  back  on.  It's  hot  enough  to  walk  bare-chested,  but  I've  been  exposed,  and  I  want  to  cover  my-  self.  In  the  shade  of  a  gray  slate  roof  my  bodyguard  is  asleep.  The  Israeli  flag,  which  I  had  imagined  rippling  in  waves  of  triumph,  a  shiny  point  of  resistance  in  a  constellation  of  hostility,  droops  in      the  windless  early  dusk.  I  can't  blame  Dennis  for  what  has  happened  to  me,  although  I  sort  of  want  to.  We  are  thrown  unprotected  on  the  free,  spin-  ning  world,  and  we  have  to  take  the  blows  when  they  come.  They  do  come.  I  try  to  think  my  beating  through,  and,  on  the  way  to  the  bus  stop,  I  half  manage  it.  I  feel  angry  and  impotent,  no  doubt  about  that.  For  a  while,  though,  I  affect  a  wounded-soldier  aspect  toward  what  I  have  been  through.  I  say  to  my-  self,  &quot;This  is  not  all  that  unpleasant&quot;-  it's  like  the  bruised  fatigue  that  follows  a  hard  soccer  game.  Then  my  kidneys  start  to  ache,  and  I  touch  my  swollen  lips.  Suddenly,  I  find  myself  in  tears.  There  is  nothing  redeeming  about  my  pain.  It  is  hurt  and  humiliation,  pure  and  simple,  with  its  own  vec-  tors  and  swoops.  By  the  time  I  get  back  to  Lemberg's,  which  takes  a  while,  because  I  have  trouble  remembering  where  he  lives,  it's  dark.  There  are  iron  --  clouds  stamped  in  a  blue-  black  sky,  and  all  the  warmth  of  the  day  has  gone  down  with  the  sun.  When  she  opens  the  door  Pat  looks  at  me,  fails  to  register  any  shock,  and  says,  &quot;Been  fightin'?&quot;  &quot;Sort  of,&quot;I  re-  ply.  Over  her  shoulder  I  see  Lemberg  at  work.  He's  directing  a  nude  model,  a  skinny  girl  with  long  black  hair,  and  conical  breasts  like  saltshakers.  I  suppose  he's  going  to  sketch  her.  As  I  move  in  through  the  door  the  girl  takes  up  a  pose,  and  Lemberg  moves  close  and  ad-  justs  her  limbs.  Pat  leads  me  past  the  artist  at  work.  &quot;You'd  better  come  into  the  bathroom,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I'll  wash  your  face.&quot;  There's  a  bright,  naked  light  bulb  hanging  over  the  sink.  She  touches  a  cold  sponge  to  my  lips  and  washes  the  caked  blood  from  my  face.  I  think  I  might  lie  and  tell  her  that  Dennis  and  I  vanquished  a  bunch  of  hard  nuts,  but  instead,  I  submit  to  her  ministrations.  I  look  in  the  mirror  and  review  the  copper  bruises  on  my  jaw  and  around  my  cheekbones.  The  door  of  the  bathroom  is  open  and  behind  me  I  can  see  Lemberg  leaning  forward  to  kiss  the  model.  Pat  says,  &quot;Wanna  go  to  the  pictures?&quot;  In  the  Hampstead  Everyman  I  think,  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  that  I  might  take  hold  of  her  hand,  but  in  the  end  I  don't. 